the serine threonine kinase akt has been established as an important signaling intermediate in regulating cell survival cell cycle progression as well as agonist induced platelet activation . stimulation of platelets with various agonists including thrombin results in akt activation . as thrombin can stimulate multiple g protein signaling pathways we investigated the mechanism of thrombin induced activation of akt . stimulation of platelets with a _PROTEIN_ activating peptide _PROTEIN_ activating peptide and thrombin resulted in and phosphorylation of akt which results in its activation . this phosphorylation and activation of akt were dramatically inhibited in the presence of ar a receptor selective antagonist or gf a protein kinase c inhibitor but akt phosphorylation was restored by supplemental gi or gz signaling . unlike wild type mouse platelets platelets from deficient mice failed to trigger akt phosphorylation by thrombin and aypgkf whereas akt phosphorylation was not affected by these agonists in platelets from mice that lack receptor . however adp caused akt phosphorylation in and deficient platelets which was completely blocked by ar . in contrast adp failed to cause akt phosphorylation in platelets from mice treated with clopidogrel and thrombin and aypgkf induced minimal phosphorylation of akt which was not affected by ar in these platelets . these data demonstrate that gi but not gq or _PROTEIN_ signaling pathways are required for activation of akt in platelets and gi signaling pathways stimulated by secreted adp play an essential role in the activation of akt in platelets .
sfllrn aypgkf and thrombin induce akt phosphorylation in a dose and time dependent has been shown that thrombin induces phosphorylation of akt in platelets . to determine the kinetics of akt phosphorylation phosphorylation was monitored over a time range of min . fig . illustrates that a rapid increase in akt phosphorylation in response to thrombin was detectable as early as s after stimulation . the level of phosphorylation peaked at around min and remained stable after min of stimulation . because thrombin signals via _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ receptors in human platelets we examined akt phosphorylation in response to sfllrn a _PROTEIN_ activating peptide aypgkf a _PROTEIN_ activating peptide and thrombin . we exposed platelets to different concentrations of the agonists and phosphorylation was measured at min after the addition of agonist . fig . shows that all three agonists induced a concentration dependent increase in akt phosphorylation . an increase in phosphorylation was detectable at concentrations above sfllrn aypgkf or unit/ml thrombin furthermore higher concentrations revealed further phosphorylation that peaked at concentrations above sfllrn aypgkf or unit/ml thrombin . a similar pattern of concentration dependent phosphorylation of in response to sfllrn aypgkf and thrombin was also detected . effect of secretion and gi signaling pathways in akt phosphorylation and activation by sfllrn aypgkf and thrombin in human analysis revealed that akt is phosphorylated on and in response to sfllrn aypgkf and thrombin in human platelets . sfllrn induced a lower extent of and phosphorylation whereas aypgkf induced a similar extent of akt phosphorylation as thrombin . these results are consistent with a previous study in which phosphorylation of and induced by sfllrn in human platelets is of the response induced by thrombin . however they failed to activate akt completely in response to the _PROTEIN_ activating peptide gypgkf which is in contrast with our data wherein dual phosphorylation and activation of akt occur in response to aypgkf . these results indicate that both _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ receptors can induce concurrent phosphorylation of and and aypgkf and thrombin are more potent activators of akt phosphorylation than sfllrn . activation of _PROTEIN_ or _PROTEIN_ causes release of dense granule contents and the released adp activates the gi pathways through stimulation of the receptor . to determine whether _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ receptors can activate akt independently of secreted adp and gi signaling pathways we utilized several complementary approaches to evaluate the role of gi signaling in akt phosphorylation . the first approach was to block secretion thereby eliminating the contribution of secreted adp to gi stimulation . pkc has been shown to play a major role in the induction of platelet secretion . to assess the role of secreted adp to the akt activation upon stimulation of platelets with sfllrn aypgkf and thrombin we used gf a selective inhibitor of pkc _METHOD_ and ar an antagonist at the gi coupled receptor . in the presence of ar or gf we found that both and phosphorylations were dramatically inhibited suggesting the important role of secretion and gi coupled receptor in akt phosphorylation . it has been shown that intracellular calcium increases also have a role in platelet secretion . to investigate the role of calcium in akt phosphorylation the high affinity calcium chelator dimethyl bapta was used to block intracellular calcium increases . the presence of dimethyl bapta significantly but not completely inhibited both and phosphorylation in response to all agonists . as dimethyl bapta interferes with platelet secretion inhibition of akt phosphorylation in dimethyl bapta treated platelets might be due to the loss of gi stimulation by secreted adp . it is known that _PROTEIN_ kinase is the _PROTEIN_ upstream regulator of akt and _PROTEIN_ kinase plays an important role in the gi dependent potentiation of platelet aggregation . sfllrn aypgkf and thrombin induced akt phosphorylation were inhibited in the presence of the _PROTEIN_ kinase inhibitor suggesting that phosphorylation of akt is _PROTEIN_ kinase dependent . these results indicate that secreted adp and gi coupled receptors are important in sfllrn aypgkf and thrombin induced phosphorylation of akt and _PROTEIN_ kinase is a key element in the gi coupled pathway for akt phosphorylation . it has been known that phosphorylation of both and is required for full activation of akt . akt activity was measured by in vitro kinase assay that detects phosphorylation of gsk induced by immunoprecipitated akt . phosphorylation of gsk was measured by western blotting using a phospho gsk antibody and gsk kinase activity has been shown to be negatively regulated by akt via phosphorylation at . our results of akt kinase activity in human platelets correspond to akt phosphorylation shown in fig . . in the presence of dimethyl bapta activation of akt in response to sfllrn aypgkf and thrombin was diminished but not completely abolished . furthermore akt activation was nearly abolished in the presence of ar and gf confirming that gi stimulation by secretion is essential for thrombin and thrombin receptor activating peptide induced akt activation . effect of secretion and gi pathways in akt phosphorylation by aypgkf and thrombin in mouse determine whether akt can be phosphorylated in a gi dependent manner in mouse as well as human platelets a similar approach was applied to mouse platelets and akt phosphorylation in response to aypgkf and thrombin was measured . mouse platelets do not _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and hence we did not use sfllrn . akt phosphorylation by aypgkf and thrombin was nearly abolished in the presence of ar gf and dimethyl bapta with the inhibition being more severe with . therefore it appears that aypgkf and thrombin phosphorylate akt predominantly via gi pathways in both human and mouse platelets . akt phosphorylation in platelets from and deficient inhibitors may not completely block the pathways and might have non selective effects on other signaling molecules . hence as a complementary approach to better understand which g protein coupled pathways mediate akt activation we used knockout mice . we compared akt phosphorylation in response to adp aypgkf and thrombin in platelets from mice lacking lacking or wild type mice . in wild type littermates aypgkf and thrombin caused phosphorylation of which was significantly inhibited in the presence of ar . however aypgkf and thrombin failed to phosphorylate akt at in platelets from knockout mice . it has been shown that platelets from knockout mice fail to release their granule contents in response to thrombin and we have shown that _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ fail to directly couple to gi in platelets and depend on secreted adp for gi stimulation . to determine whether absence of akt phosphorylation in deficient platelets is due to direct effect of on akt or indirectly through the absence of gi stimulation by secretion akt phosphorylation in response to adp was compared in deficient mice and their wild type littermates . in both wild type and deficient mouse platelets adp caused akt phosphorylation in the presence or absence of mrs a receptor antagonist whereas adp induced akt phosphorylation was abolished by ar suggesting the essential role of gi coupled receptor in akt activation in platelets . this provides further evidence that the absence of akt phosphorylation in deficient platelets in response to aypgkf and thrombin is due to the absence of gi stimulation by secretion . a similar approach was used with deficient mouse platelets and akt phosphorylation was measured in response to adp aypgkf and thrombin . deficient mouse platelets do not aggregate in response to adp with abolished calcium response whereas receptor coupled to the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase was unaffected . consistent with the published results platelets from the receptor deficient mice developed in our laboratory failed to aggregate in response to adp . however aypgkf induced aggregation was unaffected in platelets from these mice . the presence or absence of receptor did not affect the activity of akt in response to adp aypgkf and thrombin . however as in wild type mouse platelets ar also abolished adp induced akt phosphorylation in the deficient mouse platelets . the absence of did not affect the phosphorylation of akt in response to adp providing further evidence that is not required for akt activation in platelets whereas gi coupled receptor is necessary and sufficient for the stimulation of akt . akt phosphorylation in clopidogrel dosed mouse clopidogrel is a _PROTEIN_ derivative which blocks activation of platelets by selectively targeting receptor . clopidogrel has been shown to selectively inhibit adp induced platelet aggregation and inhibition of adenylyl cyclase in rat platelets h after oral administration at doses ranging from to mg/kg . in order to confirm the role of secreted adp and the receptor in akt activation we used platelets from mice dosed with clopidogrel and compared phosphorylation of in response to adp aypgkf and thrombin . the inhibitory effects of adp on stimulated camp levels were abolished in clopidogrel dosed mice platelets whereas platelet calcium response by adp was not affected by clopidogrel treatment . in platelets from mice dosed with clopidogrel adp induced platelet aggregation was completely inhibited without an effect on shape change . as shown in fig . adp caused an increase in phosphorylation in the presence or absence of mrs in control mouse platelets and the presence of ar significantly inhibited phosphorylation at this site . however adp failed to induce akt phosphorylation in platelets from mice dosed with clopidogrel confirming that gi coupled receptor is essential for akt activation . the level of phosphorylation was nearly abolished in response to aypgkf and thrombin in clopidogrel dosed mouse platelets which was not affected in the presence of ar . the residual phosphorylation of akt could be due to gi stimulation by secreted chemokines because granules can release small quantities of chemokines that can activate gi pathways . taken together these results confirm that gi stimulation is necessary for akt activation and the gi coupled receptor which is stimulated by secreted adp has a significant role in akt activation by thrombin and thrombin receptor activating peptides . pkc dependent akt phosphorylation in platelets depends on order to clarify the role of secreted adp we evaluated the effect of receptor antagonist on akt phosphorylation in response to the pkc activator _PROTEIN_ . immunoblot analysis revealed that akt is phosphorylated on both and in response to _PROTEIN_ in human platelets . ar inhibited the _PROTEIN_ induced akt phosphorylation suggesting the important role of the gi coupled receptor activation in akt phosphorylation . this conclusion was substantiated in experiments with epinephrine where activation of separate gz coupled receptor by epinephrine restored akt phosphorylation when platelets are stimulated in the presence of ar . as shown in fig . phosphorylation of was more dramatically inhibited by the ar than phosphorylation suggesting that gi signaling might play a differential role in the regulation of these two phosphorylation sites . these results indicate that secreted adp and gi coupled receptors are important in activation of akt induced by direct activation of pkc with _PROTEIN_ . restoration of sfllrn aypgkf or thrombin induced akt phosphorylation blocked by gf or ar order to verify the important role of secreted adp in sfllrn aypgkf or thrombin induced akt phosphorylation we investigated the effect of selective activation of gi or gz coupled receptor stimulation in the presence of gf . as shown in fig . selective activation of gi or gz coupled receptor by adp or epinephrine reversed the effects of secretion blockade on sfllrn aypgkf or thrombin induced akt phosphorylation . epinephrine also reversed the inhibitory effects of ar on the akt phosphorylation induced by these agonists . these results provide further evidence that dependent signaling by secreted adp is largely responsible for akt activation by sfllrn aypgkf or thrombin .
mrs apyrase _PROTEIN_ epinephrine fibrinogen and bovine serum albumin were _PROTEIN_ from sigma . hexapeptides sfllrn and aypgkf were custom synthesized at research genetics inc. . anti akt and anti phospho akt antibodies and akt kinase assay kit were _PROTEIN_ from cell signaling technology . alkaline phosphatase labeled secondary antibody was from kirkegaard perry laboratories . cdp chemiluminescent substrates were _PROTEIN_ from applied _METHOD_ . was from biomol research laboratories _PROTEIN_ . dimethyl bis ethane n n tetraacetic acid was obtained from molecular probes . ar was a gift from astra zeneca . bisindolylmaleimide i was from calbiochem . clopidogrel was from bristol myers squibb co. all other reagents were reagent grade and deionized water was used throughout . deficient mice were obtained from t. kent gartner with permission from stefan offermanns university of heidelberg germany . deficient mice were generated by subcontract with lexicon genetics inc. through knockout constructs as described previously . the phenotype of receptor deficient mouse platelets was confirmed by platelet function studies . preparation of human blood was obtained from a pool of healthy volunteers in a one sixth volume of _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ . platelet rich _LOCATION_ was prepared by centrifugation of citrated blood at g for min at room temperature . acetylsalicylic acid was added to prp to a final concentration of mm and the preparation was incubated for h at followed by centrifugation at g for min at rt . the platelet pellet was resuspended in tyrode 's buffer containing mm nacl mm kcl mm mm mm _PROTEIN_ mm hepes bovine serum albumin and units/ml apyrase . this low concentration of apyrase is not enough to block responses to adp but will prolong the responsiveness of platelets to adp by preventing desensitization of the receptors . these conditions have been standardized in the laboratory with a platelet count adjusted to cells/ml . preparation of mouse was collected from the vena cava of anesthetized mice into syringes containing blood volume of sodium citrate as anticoagulant . for clopidogrel treatment mice were orally dosed with clopidogrel for days and blood was collected h after the final dose . red blood cells were removed by centrifugation at g for min . platelet rich _LOCATION_ was recovered and platelets were pelleted at g for min . the platelet pellet was resuspended in tyrode 's buffer containing units/ml apyrase . of ml washed platelets was analyzed using a p.i.c.a . lumiaggregometer _PROTEIN_ . aggregation was measured using light transmission under stirring conditions at . each sample was allowed to aggregate for at least min . the chart recorder was set for mm/s . measurement of akt were stimulated with agonists under non stirring conditions for the appropriate time and the reaction was stopped by the addition of _PROTEIN_ sample buffer . in some experiments gf a pkc inhibitor and dimethyl bapta a calcium chelator were added and incubated for min at without stirring before agonist stimulation . platelet samples were boiled for min and proteins were separated on _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and transferred onto polyvinylidene difluoride _LOCATION_ . nonspecific binding sites were blocked by incubation in tris buffered saline/tween tween containing milk protein and bovine serum albumin for min at rt and _LOCATION_ were incubated overnight at with primary antibody with gentle agitation . after three washes for min each with tbst the _LOCATION_ were probed with the alkaline phosphatase labeled goat anti rabbit igg for h at rt . after additional washing steps _LOCATION_ were then incubated with a cdp chemiluminescent substrates for min at rt and immunoreactivity was detected using fujifilm luminescent image analyzer _PROTEIN_ . in vitro kinase assay for kinase activity was measured using a modification of the akt kinase assay kit from cell signaling technology . briefly platelets were stimulated with agonists under non stirring conditions for min and the reaction was stopped by the addition of ice cold cell lysis buffer mm nacl mm edta mm egta triton x mm sodium pyrophosphate mm glycerol phosphate mm leupeptin and mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride . resuspended immobilized akt antibody slurry was added to of platelet lysates to selectively immunoprecipitate akt from the lysate with gentle rocking h at . the pellet was washed twice with of lysis buffer and twice with of kinase buffer mm glycerol phosphate mm dithiothreitol mm and mm . the immunoprecipitated pellet was then incubated with of kinase buffer supplemented with _PROTEIN_ and of gsk fusion protein for min at allowing immunoprecipitated akt to phosphorylate gsk . the reaction was terminated with of _PROTEIN_ sample buffer . samples were boiled for min and loaded on _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ gel . akt induced phosphorylation of gsk was detected by western blotting using phospho gsk antibody .
