livers of aryl hydrocarbon receptor null mice have high levels of retinoic acid retinol and retinyl palmitate . hepatic accumulation of ra in these mice may be responsible in part for the hepatic phenotype characterized by small liver size and fibrosis . the increased levels of hepatic ra may be due to _PROTEIN_ metabolism of ra to hydroxyretinoic acid . to identify the isoform involved in ra metabolism liver microsomes from ahr null and wild type mice were subjected to western blotting and probed with antibodies to rat that cross react with murine _METHOD_ . signal intensity in western blots probed with anti rat antibodies correlated with levels of ra hydroxylation . furthermore this anti rat antibody inhibited ra hydroxylase activity of wild type mouse liver microsomes to the levels of ahr null mouse liver . when used to screen a mouse liver cdna _PROTEIN_ library this antibody exclusively recognized the murine . catalytic assays of five recombinant mouse _PROTEIN_ in escherichia coli revealed that only was competent for ra hydroxylation . real time reverse transcriptase pcr used to assess the mrna _PROTEIN_ showed _PROTEIN_ levels of this transcript in ahr null compared with wild type liver consistent with _PROTEIN_ protein levels observed by western blot analysis using an antibody to a specific peptide . these data show that catalyzes ra catabolism and thus possibly controls ra levels in mouse liver . down regulation of is hypothesized to be responsible for the liver phenotype in the ahr null mouse .
correlation between immunoreactive protein levels and ra metabolism in microsomes prepared from ahr null and wild type mouse an approach that directly compared protein levels was taken to study modulation of levels in wild type and ahr null mice . due to a high degree of amino acid similarity antibodies raised to from one species often cross react with those from other rodent species . thus probing western immunoblots of ahr null and wild type mouse liver microsomes with a panel of antibodies raised against rat could be used to identify an antibody that would cross react with the ra hydroxylating and to highlight differences in this between ahr null and wild type mice . the results of this screen are presented in fig . . the intensity of signal on the blots was found to vary in the same rank order as ra hydroxylase activity using an anti rat antibody as probe . thus proteins that were cross reactive to the antibody to rat were _PROTEIN_ in ahr null livers relative to wild type _PROTEIN_ . furthermore they were not increased by in vivo pretreatment with tcdd . this validates the _PROTEIN_ that although ra metabolism was _PROTEIN_ in ahr null mouse liver this activity was not tcdd the efficacy of tcdd treatment was confirmed using an anti antibody . thus anti rat antibodies recognize a form that follows the same trend as ra hydroxylation in the ahr null mice . in contrast the signal obtained with anti rat antibodies did not vary considerably between genotypes indicating that only a subset of is affected in the ahr null mouse . significantly the intensity of signal obtained using an antibody raised to a c terminal peptide of the retinoic acid inducible retinoid acid hydroxylase was not significantly _PROTEIN_ in the ahr null mouse . thus _PROTEIN_ levels of can not explain the observed deficiency in ra metabolism in the ahr null mouse liver . ra metabolism in mouse liver microsomes by anti order to determine whether the anti antibody does indeed recognize an ra metabolizing immunoinhibition was performed with anti antibody . indeed this treatment inhibited ra oxidation in microsomes prepared from wild type mice to a level of activity that resembled that of ahr null microsomes whereas control igg had no effect on this activity . in contrast ra hydroxylation in microsomes prepared from ahr null livers was unaffected by the addition of either anti or control igg . taken together these data strongly suggest the following the anti antibody specifically recognizes an ra metabolizing the anti reactive is present at _PROTEIN_ levels in the ahr null mouse liver . anti antibody preferentially recognizes mouse in an _PROTEIN_ library initial attempts to identify the mouse that is recognized by the anti rat antibody this antibody was used to screen a mouse liver cdna _PROTEIN_ library . of nine recombinant phages identified from a _PROTEIN_ screen seven contained a sequence exactly corresponding to . the remaining two clones had no sequence similarity to the superfamily . significantly no other including those from the highly homologous subfamily members were recognized during the library screen . catalyzes the hydroxylation of the evidence presented above it seemed likely that was the enzyme responsible for the metabolism of ra and that it is present at _PROTEIN_ levels in the ahr null mouse liver . to determine whether this enzyme is indeed capable of metabolizing ra _PROTEIN_ partially purified recombinant was incubated in a reconstituted system with ra . a concentration of nm ra was chosen for all incubations as this is in the same range as the reported physiological ra concentration in the liver . the specificity of the reaction was tested by assaying metabolite formation of the other highly homologous murine _METHOD_ . of all the tested only produced the major metabolites of ra at levels above that seen with the inactive control even though all preparations were active in the metabolism of arachidonic acid . as a further test to ensure that lack of ra hydroxylating activity by the murine was not due to inactive tolbutamide metabolism was assessed side by side with the ra incubations . both and metabolized tolbutamide with turnover numbers of and nmol/nmol/min respectively . kinetic studies for ra oxidation were performed using the partially purified recombinant isoform . this isoform exhibited high activity for the hydroxylation of ra with a vmax value of fmol/min/pmol of and a km of nm . background metabolite formation was assessed with an inactive recombinant human allele . this allele has been found to be essentially inactive toward substrates such as s mephenytoin and tolbutamide . background hydroxy and oxo ra formation was fairly high in the absence of an active . as no metabolites were observed in the absence of protein this is most likely due to metabolism by contaminating bacterial proteins . mrna is dependent on ahr status but unresponsive to of the unique activity of the bacterially _PROTEIN_ in ra hydroxylation we tested whether ahr null mice showed a _PROTEIN_ in mrna compared with wild type . fig . shows a _PROTEIN_ in mrna as tested in real time rt pcr experiments and specified in fig . legend . the difference was highly significant . interestingly in vivo pretreatment with tcdd did not affect mrna _PROTEIN_ thus suggesting that ahr status controls the _PROTEIN_ of this ra hydroxylating enzyme in an indirect manner . these data correlate well with the reported lack of induction by tcdd treatment of both anti rat immunoreactive protein _PROTEIN_ and in vitro ra metabolism in ahr wild type mice . western blot analysis using a specific antibody verifies a _PROTEIN_ in the ahr null mouse because was the only cytochrome showing significant ra oxidizing activity of all the bacterially _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ tested and real time rt pcr showed a reduction in the mrna of we checked whether the observed lower ra hydroxylation activity in the ahr null mouse liver microsomes was also accompanied by a reduced protein _PROTEIN_ level by using a new specific polyclonal antibody for raised to a specific peptide . fig . shows the high specificity of an antibody for . this antibody recognized only the recombinant bacterially _PROTEIN_ but it did not recognize any other structurally related murine _METHOD_ such as and . furthermore fig . clearly shows a marked reduction in the protein _PROTEIN_ in the ahr null liver . these data verify that is the that is specifically down regulated in these livers .
trans ra hexane isopropyl alcohol acetic acid and ammonium acetate were _PROTEIN_ from sigma . ra was _PROTEIN_ from perkinelmer life sciences . hydroxy and oxo ra were a kind gift of dr. joseph l. napoli . acetonitrile and methanol were _PROTEIN_ from burdick and jackson . all of the solvents used for hplc were degassed through a filter and all of the procedures were carried out under yellow light . animals tcdd treatment and microsome animals used in this study were week old males and were _PROTEIN_ in a pathogen free facility . tcdd was administered in a single intraperitoneal injection at a dose of in corn oil . mice were killed by _PROTEIN_ asphyxiation days after injection . microsomes were prepared by differential centrifugation as described previously and protein concentrations were determined by the dye binding method using bovine serum albumin as a standard . western proteins were separated by _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ on a gel and transferred to nitrocellulose _LOCATION_ in tgm transfer buffer at a constant v overnight at . _LOCATION_ were probed with antibodies raised against rat and mouse and and an antibody for raised against a specific peptide generated as described below . binding of antibody was detected using horseradish peroxidase conjugated secondary antibodies and the ecl method . relative band intensities were measured by densitometry . generation of anti cyps anti antibody was raised by injection of a synthetic keyhole limpet hemocyanin conjugated c terminal peptide from mouse into rabbits using a standard protocol . a specific peptide c eefsdrgsipmv was synthesized by resgen and coupled to keyhole limpet hemocyanin through the terminal cysteine . custom polyclonal antibodies specific for were then produced by covance research products inc. _PROTEIN_ as follows . at the start of production a mg/ml suspension of conjugated peptide was diluted with freund 's complete adjuvant and each of two rabbits received following pre bleed . after weeks rabbits were each boosted with of peptide diluted with freund 's incomplete adjuvant followed after weeks with a test bleed . rabbits received additional boosts at week intervals with production bleeds beginning after the third boost . rabbits were terminated by exsanguination at completion of production . antibodies used in this study were from the second production bleed . enzymatic assays and determination of kinetic constants for ra hydroxylation by metabolism in mouse liver microsomes was assayed as described previously . the n termini of the murine cdnas were modified for optimal _PROTEIN_ in escherichia coli and _PROTEIN_ partially purified and reconstituted with dilauroylphosphatidylcholine and nadph cytochrome oxidoreductase as described previously . incubations containing a final concentration of nm labeled ra were initiated by the addition of nadph and run for h at . for the determination of km and vmax values for ra hydroxylation by isoform recombinant and partially reconstituted isoform was incubated for min at with a range of ra concentrations incubation time was within the linear range as determined from velocity versus time experiments . nadph minus controls were run side by side . reactions were stopped by placing tubes in a dry ice/ethanol bath and processed as described below . of ra to more _PROTEIN_ metabolites was analyzed on both reverse and straight phase columns . a beckman model pump was connected in series to a knauer d spectrophotometer and a radiomatic radioactivity flow detector . samples were first analyzed on a partisil ods column fitted with a precolumn of pellicular ods . acetonitrile and ammonium acetate in water was used as mobile phase at a flow rate of ml/min . _PROTEIN_ metabolites were further separated on a zorbax sil column with hexane/isopropyl alcohol/methanol/acetic acid at a flow rate of ml/min . microsomes were preincubated for min at room temperature with and mg of anti rat igg/mg of microsomes . commercial rabbit igg was used as a negative control . each sample was then incubated at in a shaking water bath for min in ml of mm tris hcl mm kcl mm and an nadph regenerating system _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ ph with nm ra according to fiorella et al . . reactions were stopped in a dry ice/methanol mixture before sample lyophilization . each residue was extracted with ml of methanol . after removal of particulates by centrifugation samples were stored at until analyzed . rna rna was extracted from crushed frozen mouse liver using _PROTEIN_ reagent according to the manufacturer 's protocol . to ensure efficient removal of possible dna contamination rna samples were further purified using rneasy mini kit according to the manufacturer 's protocol for rna clean up . cdna total rna was reverse transcribed using superscript first strand synthesis system for rt pcr kit according to the manufacturer 's protocol . reactions were primed with oligo primers and the total volume/reaction was . pcr was performed in a total volume of using taqman pcr core reagent kit _METHOD_ of cdna/sample was used as template . both gapdh and amplification were done in duplicate for each sample . the thermal cycling conditions included min at and min at followed by cycles of for s and for min . primers and and probe for mrna were designed using the primer _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ computer program and then custom synthesized by applied _METHOD_ . primers and probe nucleotide sequences for are as follows forward primer reverse primer and taqman probe _PROTEIN_ . the boldface nucleotides in the taqman probe sequence represent the fully unique nucleotides for the isoform which guarantee a specific amplification of this isoform over other very similar ones within the same subfamily . both the primer pair set and probe for gapdh were _PROTEIN_ from applied _METHOD_ . real time rt _PROTEIN_ in wild type and ahr null mouse liver samples was measured by real time quantitative rt pcr based on taqman methodology using the abi prism sequence detection system _METHOD_ . this technique allows by means of _METHOD_ emission identification of the cycling point when pcr product is detectable . to normalize the amount of total rna present in each reaction we amplified the housekeeping gene gapdh . results are _PROTEIN_ as relative levels of mrna referred to wild type samples chosen to represent _PROTEIN_ of this gene . the ahr null samples and the tcdd treated ahr / samples _PROTEIN_ n fold mrna relative to the calibrator . the amount of target normalized to an endogenous reference and relative to the calibrator is definite by the method as described by livak _METHOD_ . specifically the formula is as follows target amount where { ct ct _PROTEIN_ } . this method is based on the assumption that the target and the reference display equal amplification efficiencies . to verify this condition we checked variations according to template dilution . to this end a standard curve composed of five different dilutions of wild type mouse liver total rna was generated . the slope of this curve was . statistical rt pcr data were analyzed using the following statistical model this model is designed to adjust for possible batch effects and also to take into account the sample replicates so the standard _LOCATION_ would account for both within mouse and between mouse variability .
