the purpose of this study was to characterize covalent multimers with molecular _METHOD_ of > kda in the water insoluble proteins of aging human lenses . the experimental approach was to first separate the multimers _METHOD_ as individual spots by two dimensional gel electrophoresis and next analyze compositions of each multimers by _PROTEIN_ assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight and electrospray ionization tandem _METHOD_ spectrometric _METHOD_ methods . the wi proteins from lenses of and year old subjects showed distinct and multimer spots on two dimensional gels respectively but the spots from and year old lenses were non descript and diffused . es _METHOD_ analyses showed two types of covalent multimers in and year old lenses i.e . the first type composed of fragments of eight different crystallins and the second type of and crystallins and two beaded filament proteins . the most commonly identified species in the complexes of year old lenses were fragment fragment crystallin filensin and phakinin . three post translational modifications were observed in crystallin fragment and the first two modifications could cross link proteins . together the results suggested that covalent multimers appeared early in life and increased in number with aging and the two beaded filament proteins form covalent complexes with crystallin fragments in vivo .
two dimensional gel electrophoretic analyses of wi protein fractions from lenses of different two dimensional gel profiles of wi protein fractions from lenses of and year old donors are shown in fig . . the and crystallins _METHOD_ and their fragments _METHOD_ were predominately present in the two dimensional gel profiles of these lenses . several minor spots with molecular _METHOD_ > kda were also seen in these lenses which became increasingly more complex and non descript with aging . however although some of these were separated as single spots in the wi protein fractions of and year old lenses they remained diffused and non descript in the lenses from and year old donors . because the focus of this investigation was to characterize individual covalent multimers the single spots with molecular _METHOD_ > kda from lenses of only and year old donors were chosen for their compositional analysis by maldi tof and es _METHOD_ methods . as shown in fig . five major spots were identified in the wi protein fraction of lenses from year old donors whereas spots were present in the year old lenses . the central region of each spot was excised and digested with trypsin as described under experimental procedures. next the tryptic fragments were analyzed by the maldi tof method followed by their amino acid sequence analysis by es _METHOD_ method using _METHOD_ . the amino acid sequences of the tryptic fragments from lenses of a year old donor revealed that the single multimer spots were either made of several crystallin fragments or and crystallins and filensin and/or phakinin . among the five major spots _METHOD_ in the wi protein fraction of year old lenses spot was of filensin spot was a mixture of fragments of and filensin spot was a mixture of fragments of eight different crystallins and spot was a complex of crystallin and filensin . as stated above these identifications were based on the amino acid sequences of the tryptic fragments of individual spots by the es _METHOD_ analysis . among the spots observed in the wi protein fraction of lenses of year old donors the amino acid sequences of tryptic fragments showed that these were multimeric complexes of intact or fragments of crystallins and filensin and phakinin . the details of the es _METHOD_ analyses of these spots are described below . es _METHOD_ analysis of components of multimeric complexes from lenses of year old three tryptic peptide sequences of spot on es _METHOD_ analysis showed amino acid sequences that matched with the sequence of filensin . the first peptide sequence of lnkeadeallhnlr matched with the residues of filensin and the second and third peptides with sequences of sqleegrevlshlqaqr and lgelagpedalar matched with residues and of filensin respectively . human lens filensin has amino acids with mr . the _PROTEIN_ that residues of filensin were seen as a complex with molecular _METHOD_ > kda suggested that the protein was truncated . spot was a covalent complex of crystallin and filensin because es _METHOD_ analysis showed that it contained tryptic peptides with matching amino acid sequences of both proteins . the following tryptic peptide sequences of crystallin were seen in spot ac mdvtiqhpwfk dvtiqhpwfkr tvldsgisevr sdrdkfvifldvk hfspedltvk hfspedltvkvqddfveihgk vqddfveihgk iqtgldathaer and tgldathaer . similarly spot contained two filensin tryptic peptides with sequences of lgelagpedalar and sqleegrevlshlqaqr . together the sequence data of the tryptic peptides suggested that the complex contained c terminally truncated crystallin and a filensin fragment . because the molecular _METHOD_ of the complex was kda the complex might be containing fragments instead of complete sequences of the two proteins . spot was a multimer made of fragments of eight different crystallins suggesting that crystallin fragments per se could cross link to form a multimer complex . the es _METHOD_ analysis identified tryptic peptide sequences that overlapped with the sequences of and crystallins . the complex showed the presence of two tryptic peptide sequences of crystallin tlgpfypsr and hfspedltvk and six tryptic peptides of crystallin with sequences of apswfdtglsemr apswfdtglsemrlek hfspeelk drfsvnldvk qdehgfisr and ipadvdpltitsslssdgvltvngpr . this spot also contained three crystallin tryptic peptides with the sequences of itiydqenfqgkr wdawsgsnayhier and mtifekenfigr two crystallin tryptic peptides with the sequences of mvvwdedgfqgr and ltifeqenflgk and four tryptic peptides with the sequence of lvvfelenfqgr vssgtwvgyqypgyr islfeganfk and gyqyllepgdfr . additional peptides in the complex were one tryptic peptide with the sequence of vqsgtwvgyqypgyr four tryptic fragments with the sequence of itfyedknfqgr avhlpsggqyk qylldkk and kpidwgaaspavqsfr and one tryptic peptide of crystallin with the sequence of qyllmpgdyr . spot was found to be a multimer of filensin and crystallin . the spot showed the presence of a filensin tryptic peptide with the sequence of lgelagpedalar and the tryptic peptides of with the sequence of tlgpfypsr and tvldsgisevr . together the above results suggested that covalent multimers existed in the wi protein fraction of young human lenses of years of age and these complexes were formed following cross linking between truncated crystallin and filensin or among fragments of eight different crystallins . identification of components of multimer spots in wi proteins of lenses from year old two dimensional gel electrophoretic analysis the wi protein fraction from lenses of year old donor showed more than individual spots with molecular _METHOD_ > kda . the increased number of spots represented additional age related cross linked species that became water insoluble . the es _METHOD_ analysis deduced amino acid sequences of tryptic peptides from spots and are listed in table iii which show that a variety of fragments of and crystal lins and that of filensin and phakinin were present in the multimers . the components of the remaining spots could not be fully identified and therefore are not reported . spots and showed tryptic fragments with identical amino acid sequences suggesting their identical compositions except spot lacked phakinin . both spots were a covalent complex of crystallins phakinin and filensin . in both spots crystallin was apparently c terminally truncated and both met and trp residues at positions and respectively were oxidized along with oxidized met residue in crystallin . the tryptic peptides present in the two multimers were as follows . ac mdvtiqhpwfk tlgpfypsr tvldsgisevr _PROTEIN_ hfspedltvk and vqddfveihgk lvvfelenfqgr _PROTEIN_ gyqyllepgdfr ltifeqenflgk filensin lgelagpedalar sqleegrevlshlqaqr evlshlqaqr qlavaqqtlk and phakinin algissvflqglr lmlqtetiqagaddfker and yeneqpfr . spot multimer was a complex of crystallins filensin and phakinin . the tryptic peptide sequences observed in spot were as follows . ac mdvtiqhpwfk tlgpfypsr tvldsgisevr _PROTEIN_ vqddfveihgk qddhgyisr iqtgldathaer apswfdtglsemr hfspeelk itiydqenfqgk filensin lgelagpedalar qlavaqqtlk and phakinin algissvflqglr . spot was a complex of and crystallins and phakinin . the tryptic fragments from this complex showed the following amino acid sequences ac mdvtiqhpwfk tlgpfypsr gpfypsr pfypsr tvldsgisevr _PROTEIN_ hfspedltvk vqddfveihgk ddfveihgk apswfdtglsemr hfspeelk lvvfelenfqgr gyqyllepgdfr itfyedknfqgr and phakinin algissvflqglr . spot multimer was a complex of phakinin and filensin . this spot contained tryptic peptides with the following sequences ac mdvtiqhpwfk tlgpfypsr tvldsgisevr vqddfveihgk iqtgldathaer hfspeelk itiydqenfqgk ltifeqenflgk phakinin algissvflqglr and filensin lgelagpedalar and vrdleaer . spots and were identical in composition to spot except spot contained an additional crystallin peptide and spot lacked a crystallin peptide . spots were unique and each showed compositions that were different from other complexes as described above i.e . spot multimer showed fragments of crystallins and filensin spot contained crystallins filensin and phakinin whereas spot contained crystallin and filensin . spot showed tryptic fragment with the following sequences . tlgpfypsr tvldsgisevr _PROTEIN_ hfspeelk lvvfelenfqgr iilyenpnftgk itiydqenfqgk ltifeqenflgk and filensin lgelagpedalar . spot contained tryptic peptides with the following sequences . ac mdvtiqhpwfk tlgpfypsr tvldsgisevr lsgisevr ltifeqenflgk filensin lgelagpedalar lqleaqflqddisaak elqaqtttleqaik and phakinin algissvflqglr lmlqtetiqagaddfker . spot was a complex between crystallin and filensin with tryptic peptides with the following sequences . ac mdvtiqhpwfk tlgpfypsr tvldsgisevr and filensin elqaqtttleqaik . it was also determined which fragments of crystallins filensin and phakinin were commonly present in the multimeric complexes . the analysis showed that the crystallin fragments with residues and occurred frequently with the multimers . additional most commonly occurring fragments were from crystallin crystallin filensin and phakinin . the results suggested that the above regions of the crystallins and beaded filament proteins might be specifically involved in the covalent cross linking during the multimer formation . identification of post translational modifications present in components forming the wi stated in the introduction the formation of the cross linked crystallin species during aging and cataractogenesis is believed to be primarily due to post translational modifications in crystallins . the es _METHOD_ analyses of the complexes identified three major post translational modifications in the crystallin fragments . the three modifications were oxidation of met and trp conversion of ser to dehydroalanine and formylation of his . the oxidative modifications are listed in tables ii and iii and an example during es _METHOD_ analysis is shown in fig . . similarly the conversion of ser to dehydroalanine in the crystallin is shown in fig . and the formylation of his in crystallin is shown in fig . . the significance of these modifications in the covalent complex formation is discussed below .
human lenses with no apparent opacity were obtained from dr. robert church of the emory university or from the shared ocular tissue module at the university of alabama at birmingham . the lenses were retrieved within h post mortem and stored in medium without phenol red at until used . the prestained and unstained molecular weight protein markers were from invitrogen and amersham biosciences respectively . the chemicals for two dimensional gel electrophoresis were from either amersham biosciences or bio rad . unless indicated otherwise all other chemicals used in this study were _PROTEIN_ from sigma or fisher companies . isolation of ws and wi protein fractions from normal human lenses and their analysis by two dimensional gel normal human lenses without any opacity from donors of and years of age were used to isolate ws and wi protein fractions by a procedure as previously described . lenses were thawed on ice decapsulated suspended in buffer a mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride and homogenized using a tissue grinder . following centrifugation at g for min of the lens homogenate the supernatant was recovered the pellet was homogenized and centrifuged as above and the process was repeated twice . the three supernatants after each centrifugation were pooled and designated as water soluble protein fraction and the pellet was designated as the water insoluble protein fraction . the wi proteins from lenses of individual ages were dissolved in the resolubilization buffer . each preparation was subjected to two dimensional gel electrophoresis _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ . the ief separation was carried out using immoboline dry strips and by following the manufacturer 's suggested method . the second dimension _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ was performed by using the laemmli method . prior to the first ief analysis the desired wi protein fraction was incubated overnight with dry strips at room temperature . following the ief separation the strips were consecutively treated for min each first with mm dithiothreitol _PROTEIN_ and next with mm iodoacetamide . during _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ a polyacrylamide gel of cm was used . the protein spots on a gel were stained with _METHOD_ blue . analysis of multimers by _METHOD_ spectrometric _METHOD_ spectrometric analyses the protein spots were individually excised from a polyacrylamide gel using pipette microtips . the polyacrylamide pieces containing a spot was washed with doubly distilled water and destained after treating with ammonium bicarbonate and acetonitrile . trypsin solution was added and the preparation was resuspended in mm ammonium bicarbonate ph . the samples were digested by trypsin at overnight and the next day they were analyzed by using the maldi tof method . the maldi analysis and es _METHOD_ sequencing _METHOD_ were performed at the comprehensive cancer center _METHOD_ spectrometric shared facility of the university of alabama at birmingham . the _PROTEIN_ assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight identity of proteins was established by using the ncbinr data base of _PROTEIN_ science . during the es _METHOD_ analysis of the tryptic fragments the data base of the proteinlynx global server was used along with manual interpretations as needed in certain cases . protein concentration was determined by a modified method of lowry using the pierce protein determination kit .
