research into the molecular basis of plant insect interactions is hampered by the inability to alter the _PROTEIN_ of individual genes in plants growing under natural conditions . the ability of gene silencing to silence the _PROTEIN_ of two genes known to mediate the _PROTEIN_ of two potent direct defences that are produced in different tissues in nicotiana attenuata is documented here . fragments of consensus sequences of n. attenuata s putrescine and trypsin inhibitor genes were cloned in sense and inverted repeat orientations into the tobacco rattle virus to trigger gene silencing by inoculation in plants previously elicited with methyl jasmonate or left as controls . meja treatment elicited and increases in the concentrations of nicotine and proteinase inhibitors respectively and inoculation with constructs containing appropriate genes inhibited these increases and halved constitutive accumulations _PROTEIN_ of the orientation of the gene fragment . root pmt transcript levels were significantly elevated in plants h after elicitation but not in plants inoculated with the appropriate trv constructs d prior to meja treatment demonstrating that vigs was responsible for the inhibition of these potent direct defences . while additional research is required to minimize the effects on plant growth and the risks of using such constructs in natural settings it is concluded that vigs has a potential to manipulate the _PROTEIN_ of genes important for ecological interactions .
silencing of phytoene desaturase a gene which oxidizes and cyclizes phytoene to and which are subsequently converted into xanthophylls of the antenna pigments of the _METHOD_ of plants results in visible bleaching of green tissues and hence is an ideal phenotype with which to monitor the progress of vigs . inoculation of nicotiana attenuata with vectors harbouring a fragment of n. benthamianapds inconsistently produced bleaching that was limited to tissues located between major veins in the lamina of inoculated leaves . by contrast inoculation with the constructs containing a pds fragment with an iri orientation resulted in extensive bleaching that covered all parts of a leaf s lamina and spread systemically toward younger tissues from the inoculated leaf . the ratios of pbintra and the time of incubation of transformed agrobacterium cells in the acetosyringone resuspension buffer as well as the plant growth conditions were systematically varied and it was found that only the latter had significant effects on the bleaching response . when plants were grown at low temperatures and low light after inoculation the frequency and extent of the bleaching dramatically increased and these growing conditions were used for the experiments in which the two direct defences were silenced . much is known about the _METHOD_ involved in the activation of these direct defences that are relevant to the interpretation of the data presented here . nicotine is a potent inducible defence of n. attenuata and a secondary metabolite ideally suited for a stringent test of the ability of vigs to silence an ecologically relevant trait on a basis . nicotine biosynthesis is sequestered in root tissues but this alkaloid accumulates in all plant parts largely due to transport from the roots in the xylem stream with subsequent redistribution among parts probably via movement in the phloem . herbivore attack or wounding to shoot tissues increases the accumulation of transcripts in the roots for the enzyme catalysing the step in nicotine biosynthesis the methylation of putrescine by putrescine transferase and dramatically increases nicotine biosynthesis and wp accumulation . a signal is transported from the wounded leaves to the roots and is responsible for eliciting this wp response . evidence for the importance of pmt transcripts in inducible nicotine production comes from studies demonstrating strong positive correlations among the amount of wounding the transient accumulation of ja in shoots and of pmt transcripts in roots and the accumulation of nicotine in the entire plant . moreover stable _PROTEIN_ of pmt dramatically _PROTEIN_ pmt transcript accumulation in roots and wp nicotine pools in n. sylvestris even after meja elicitation . hence the inhibition of induced increases in nicotine accumulation can result from either inhibition of nicotine biosynthesis or the signalling _METHOD_ that activate it . inoculation with viruses is known to elicit salicylic acid accumulation which in turn is known to inhibit jasmonate signalling . for example tobacco mosaic virus infection of n. sylvestris inhibits nicotine increases likely through talk mediated by the sa elicited by tmv infection . to determine if vigs could silence pmt _PROTEIN_ without the potential confounding effects of agrobacterium or trv inoculation on signalling signalling was and the roots of plants were elicited with meja and pmt transcript accumulation was measured in the roots and wp nicotine accumulation after d. n. attenuata contains two pmt genes and a bp fragment from a consensus region of was introduced into trv constructs in s as and iri orientations . pmt transcripts in the roots of three replicate plants increased dramatically in both uninoculated and plants h after elicitation . this increase in transcript accumulation was largely abolished in all plants inoculated with constructs _PROTEIN_ of orientation of the gene fragment . in particular the three replicate plants inoculated with pmt in an as orientation contained no detectable kb signal even after meja elicitation . the accumulation of pmt transcripts is known to be variable in unelicited plants and the signals observed in individual replicates are consistent with background _PROTEIN_ levels . since plants were inoculated with the vectors in the leaves yet silencing was observed in a gene some component of the construct could have been transported to the roots . to test this hypothesis the rna gel blots presented in fig . were stripped and rehybridized with a trv coat protein probe and strong signals were found in all inoculated plants suggesting that components of the recombinant had been transported to the roots during the silencing process . the silencing of pmt transcript accumulation had dramatic effects on nicotine accumulation patterns from which effects on nicotine production can be inferred an inference that requires discussion . nicotine is produced in the roots accumulates in plant parts at concentrations correlated with the fitness value of the plant part to the entire plant and is largely unmetabolized with only a small percentage of the wp pool being demethylated to produce nornicotine and subsequently deprotonated to anatabine even when growth is limited by nitrogen availability . the wp pools of nicotine increase as an allometric function of wp _METHOD_ as plants grow and these allometric relationships are not isometric hence induced increases in nicotine production can not be directly inferred from changes in the concentrations of plants that are not of the same _METHOD_ . meja elicitation increases nicotine production and accumulation to a new allometrically determined setpoint _METHOD_ which is _PROTEIN_ until subsequent elicitations . hence by measuring changes in wp pools of nicotine changes in nicotine production during plant growth can be inferred . meja elicitation increased wp nicotine pools in control and ev plants but also significantly _PROTEIN_ wp plant _METHOD_ . inoculation with the variously transformed agrobacterium constructs _PROTEIN_ plant growth still further . the increase in wp nicotine pools in plants while highly significant was smaller than that observed in control plants . elicitation of control plants increased wp nicotine pools while the increase in plants inoculated with ev constructs was . approximately half of the _PROTEIN_ in the induced response could be attributed to _PROTEIN_ in the allometrically determined setpoint due to _PROTEIN_ plant growth . by contrast increases were completely abolished in all plants inoculated with constructs _PROTEIN_ of the orientation of the gene fragment . moreover constitutive wp nicotine pools in these plants was reduced by mg approximately half of the amount found in unelicited plants inoculated with ev constructs consistent with the amount of nicotine that would have been produced and accumulated during growth that occurred after inoculation and before harvest . from the halving of constitutive nicotine pools in unelicited plants as compared with uninoculated controls it can be inferred that vigs _PROTEIN_ transcript accumulation and nicotine production soon after inoculation and well before meja elicitation thereby truncating the normal constitutive nicotine accumulation rates in the d before elicitation . collectively these results demonstrate vigs of nicotine production . as an additional direct defence n. attenuata produces large quantities of trypsin inhibitors systemically after meja elicitation and caterpillar attack . these induced increases are associated with increases in transcripts coding for a trypsin inhibitor . the tis are targeted to the central _LOCATION_ and compared with nicotine rapidly metabolized and hence are quantified by activity mg protein . vigs was also effective in silencing ti activity as well as inhibiting the accumulation of ti transcripts in leaves after elicitation . inoculation with ev significantly increased ti activity of unelicited plants but unlike its influence on nicotine production enhanced the increase of ti activity after meja treatment . elicitation with meja increased ti activity in uninoculated plants by nmol mg while in plants inoculation with ti activity increased by nmol mg . inoculation with constructs dramatically reduced ti activity in plants to levels that were equal to or less than those of unelicited plants . ti activity of unelicited but silenced plants was lower than that of unelicited plants . the silencing of the ti activity occurred without significantly influencing nicotine production demonstrating that ti and pmt could be silenced independently . since both of these direct defences are require a lypoxygenase signal for their activation and are inhibited in transformed plants with the endogenous lox _PROTEIN_ in an antisense orientation their independent silencing is consistent with the silencing of genes involved in their biosynthesis rather than interference with some aspect of their signalling . these results demonstrate that constructs can effectively silence two direct defences of n. attenuata the nicotine as well as ti activity . these results also suggest that vigs could be an effective tool for ecological analyses . two considerations require additional research before the procedure can be adopted . first inoculation with constructs clearly reduced plant growth independently of their ability to elicit vigs . the _PROTEIN_ in would hamper a phytocentric analysis of ecological function in which plant fitness was used as a measure of plant performance . whether this _PROTEIN_ in growth is a result of the agrobacterium or some attribute of the vector remains to be explored . moreover the growth conditions that were required for vigs may be difficult to realize under natural conditions and additional research will be required to identify strains of agrobacterium that can elicit vigs under the range of light and temperature conditions found in nature . second the potential risks of increasing the host range of trv by inoculation as well as the risks of transferring new genetic elements into trv need to be thoroughly explored before these particular constructs could be used in natural settings .
pcr was used to generate a bp fragment of the phytoene desaturase gene from nicotiana benthamiana in sense orientation with the primer pair gcggcgatcgatgccgattgtggaac _PROTEIN_ and gcggcggtcgactggcctgttgggcccactg gagtggcaaacac and in orientation with the primer pair gcggcggtcgacatgccgattgtggaacata _PROTEIN_ and gcggcgggcctaacaggcccactggagtggcaa acac . for the construction of an inverted repeat vector these fragments were cloned into and separated by a bp intron _PROTEIN_ originating from the ricinuscommunis catalase gene which was known to be spliced in n. attenuata . this construct was used to optimize the inoculation conditions for vigs in n. attenuata . pmt and ti vectors were constructed with endogenous gene sequences from n. attenuata . a bp pcr fragment of the pmt gene was cloned into by using bamhi and hindiii cloning sites to produce s _PROTEIN_ and as constructs . to produce the iri construct the hindiii site of the s construct was used to clone the bp pcr fragment of the catalase intron followed by the cloning of the as construct into sali and kpni sites to complete the construct . a bp pcr fragment of the repeat region of the n. attenuatati gene was used to create an s and an as constructs with the bamhi and hindiii cloning sites of . the iri construct was created as previously described . graphical representations of the constructs are shown in fig . . the vector is a kb plasmid with an origin of replication for e. coli and a. tumefaciens and a gene for kanamycin resistance . plasmid inserts were sequenced on a abi prism dna sequencer with the big dye terminator kit _METHOD_ and analysed with the lasergene software package . agrobacterium tumefaciens cells strain were transformed with all plasmids by electroporation _METHOD_ and _PROTEIN_ on lb media containing glycerol . n. attenuata seeds from eleventh and twelfth generation of a collection originating from utah were germinated in soil . plants slated for the vigs of nicotine production were grown hydroponically as described in ohnmeiss and baldwin in order to facilitate the harvesting of the roots while those slated for the vigs of ti production were grown in soil . all plants were grown under a h light/dark regime until they were and in the of growth . growth conditions at the start of the experiments were h light/dark at relative humidity and approximately m s for d after inoculation after which light levels were returned to normal high light levels . inoculations of the plants were performed as described in ratcliff et al . with the modification that agrobacterium cells were immediately used after and that plants were inoculated with agrobacterium cells transformed with pbintra and one of the or constructs in a ratio . inoculations were performed on and/or leaves with the youngest leaf defining node . for each experiment a set of plants were used plants remained uninoculated plants were inoculated with the empty virus vector construct and plants were separately inoculated with each of the different silencing constructs . nine days after inoculation plants of each group were elicited with jasmonic acid methyl ester per plant . for nicotine measurements whole plants were harvested d after . plant material was pulverized and analysed for wp nicotine content by hplc as described in et al . . shoots from the ti experiment were harvested d after meja elicitation and _PROTEIN_ activity was determined as described in van dam et al . . nicotine concentrations were also determined in the shoot extracts . to determine the effects of vigs on mrna levels in the nicotine experiment northern blot analysis using a bp cdna probe from the end of pmt was conducted on mrna harvested from roots h after meja elicitation the time of maximum elicitation of pmt transcripts .
