ser/thr phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate irs regulates insulin signaling but the relevant phosphorylated residues and their potential functions during insulin stimulated signal transduction are difficult to resolve . we used a sequence specific polyclonal antibody directed against phosphorylated to study irs mediated signaling during insulin and insulin like growth _PROTEIN_ igf i stimulation . insulin or igf i stimulated phosphorylation of in various cell backgrounds and in murine muscle . wortmannin or rapamycin inhibited phosphorylation and amino acids or _PROTEIN_ stimulated phosphorylation suggesting a role for the mtor cascade . the kinase associates with irs during immunoprecipitation but its identity is unknown . the terminal c jun kinase did not phosphorylate . replacing with alanine significantly reduced insulin stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of irs and binding and reduced insulin stimulated phosphorylation of ribosomal protein and _PROTEIN_ however this mutation had no effect on insulin stimulated akt or glycogen synthase kinase phosphorylation . replacing with alanine reduced insulin/igf i stimulated dna synthesis . we conclude that phosphorylation integrates nutrient availability with insulin/igf i signaling to promote mitogenesis and cell growth .
insulin/igf i stimulates study serine phosphorylation of irs we raised sequence specific polyclonal antibodies against amino acid peptides containing putative serine phosphorylation sites in rat irs . one of these antibodies was directed against and designated . the immunoblotted irs extracted from insulin or igf i stimulated cells adipocytes and _PROTEIN_ cells . platelet derived growth _PROTEIN_ had a weak effect in adipocytes and epidermal growth _PROTEIN_ and tumor necrosis _PROTEIN_ did not promote phosphorylation . phosphorylation was detected min after insulin stimulation of cells reached a maximum within min but was barely detected after h . moreover was phosphorylated in irs isolated from muscles of insulin stimulated mice suggesting that phosphorylation might be physiologically relevant . we conducted peptide competition and site directed mutagenesis experiments to establish the specificity of the . the phosphopeptide used to produce completely prevented immunoblotting of irs from insulin stimulated cells . the unphosphorylated peptide at best weakly inhibited immunoblotting suggesting that the phosphoserine residue was an important determinant of specificity . the did not immunoblot background proteins in the various cell extracts did not immunoblot alkaline phosphatase treated irs immunoprecipitates and it did not immunoblot irs even though the corresponding serine residue is phosphorylated . replacing with ala in irs completely abolished immunoblotting by . based upon these results we conclude that is specific for irs phosphorylated on . mutation of to ala impairs insulin phosphorylation is generally thought to inhibit irs function by _PROTEIN_ insulin stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation or promoting irs degradation through a proteasome mediated degradation pathway . for example jnk mediated phosphorylation of in irs inhibits insulin signaling replacing with alanine increases insulin stimulated irs tyrosine phosphorylation and downstream signaling . to establish the effect of on irs function we generated cells _PROTEIN_ wild type irs or a mutant irs protein containing an alanine substitution for . stable cell clones _PROTEIN_ equal amounts of irs or were identified by immunoblotting . insulin strongly stimulated irs tyrosine and phosphorylation in cells whereas tyrosine phosphorylation was reduced significantly in . consistent with reduced tyrosine phosphorylation associated weakly with during insulin stimulation . we conclude that promotes irs function during insulin stimulation . irs signaling is regulated differentially through the irs cascade regulates various downstream signals during insulin/igf i stimulation including the activation of akt/gsk and _PROTEIN_ cascades . as shown previously irs was required for insulin stimulated phosphorylation of akt in cells which is consistent with the binding and activation of _PROTEIN_ by irs during insulin stimulation . however insulin stimulated normally akt phosphorylation in cells even though tyrosine phosphorylation of and recruitment was significantly reduced during insulin stimulation . akt phosphorylates gsk on which can be detected with a phosphospecific antibody . phosphorylation of gsk was stimulated equally by insulin in and cells suggesting that replacing with alanine did not impair irs mediated activation of the akt/gsk cascade during insulin stimulation . the activation of was investigated during insulin stimulation by immunoblotting with a phosphospecific antibody against . as shown previously insulin failed to stimulate phosphorylation in cells whereas it was strongly phosphorylated in cells especially after min of insulin stimulation . the ribosomal protein and the regulatory protein _PROTEIN_ are substrates of and mtor respectively and both proteins were phosphorylated during insulin stimulation of cells . however insulin weakly stimulated phosphorylation in cells and the phosphorylation of and _PROTEIN_ was barely detected . thus was essential for the branch of the irs signaling cascade . a kinase associates with irs association between a kinase and its substrates followed by the recognition of phosphorylation sites by the associated kinase determines the specificity of protein phosphorylation . to determine whether the kinase associates with irs specific immunoprecipitates containing irs were incubated without or with _PROTEIN_ . before addition of _PROTEIN_ was phosphorylated as observed previously however phosphorylation increased fold after incubation with _PROTEIN_ thus a kinase associated with irs during immunoprecipitation . previous studies show that jnk phosphorylates on rat irs which inhibits insulin signaling . because is close to we tested whether jnk might phosphorylate . we conducted this experiment with wild type mefs or jnk deficient mefs obtained from jnk / jnk / mice _PROTEIN_ . our previous work showed that phosphorylation was _PROTEIN_ more than in / / mefs . however insulin or igf i stimulated phosphorylation to similar levels in both wild type and jnk / jnk / mefs . because recombinant jnk did not phosphorylate in vitro we conclude that insulin/igf i stimulated phosphorylation of in irs was not mediated by jnk . these results reveal that adjacent sites in irs are phosphorylated through distinct associated kinases . phosphorylation is downstream of used classical inhibitors and amino acid starvation to determine whether the mtor cascade might mediate phosphorylation in irs . wortmannin or _PROTEIN_ or rapamycin inhibited insulin stimulated phosphorylation in mefs whereas had no inhibitory effect these inhibitors had the expected effects on _LOCATION_ and akt phosphorylation . similar results were obtained with _PROTEIN_ cells and adipocytes . thus mtor regulated pathways promote insulin stimulated phosphorylation . previous results showed that activation of mtor by mitogens or insulin is modulated by nutrient availability including amino acids or _PROTEIN_ . we investigated the effect of amino acid and _PROTEIN_ starvation on phosphorylation to establish further whether an mtor mediated pathway is involved . incubation of _PROTEIN_ cells in _PROTEIN_ and amino acid free medium _PROTEIN_ reduced basal and insulin stimulated phosphorylation . consistent with a role for the mtor cascade the addition of amino acids or _PROTEIN_ restored basal and insulin stimulated phosphorylation . insulin stimulated _PROTEIN_ phosphorylation was not reduced in _PROTEIN_ acid free medium suggesting that the early steps of insulin signaling were not inhibited and sufficient _PROTEIN_ exists in the starved cells to mediate kinase activities . rapamycin or inhibited amino acid stimulated phosphorylation of whereas had no effect which was consistent with a role for the mtor cascade during nutrient and insulin stimulated phosphorylation . although our results suggest that kinases in the mtor cascade promote phosphorylation mtor itself is probably not involved . we treated cells with a relatively high concentration of okadaic acid which inhibits protein phosphatase and other related phosphatases . as expected okadaic acid increased phosphorylation however the stimulatory effect of okadaic acid was not inhibited by either rapamycin or . we conclude that mtor is not a direct kinase . promotes insulin stimulated of the _PROTEIN_ biological functions of insulin/igf i is to promote cell proliferation and the activation of akt and _PROTEIN_ plays an important role . because these signals are regulated differentially by we compared insulin/igf i stimulated dna synthesis in and cells . as shown previously insulin or igf i failed to promote dna synthesis in wild type cells however _PROTEIN_ of irs mediated insulin/igf i stimulated dna synthesis . because insulin receptors are nearly absent in cells a high concentration of insulin was required to stimulate dna synthesis in cells . however insulin or igf i stimulation of dna synthesis was significantly reduced in cells .
antibodies and antibodies were made by injecting rabbits with a synthetic peptide designed to contain phosphorylated . anti phosphotyrosine antibody was _PROTEIN_ from transduction laboratories . antibodies against irs and have been described . antibodies against phosphotyrosine phospho akt akt phospho phosphoribosomal ribosomal phospho _PROTEIN_ phospho gsk and gsk were _PROTEIN_ from cell signaling technology . jnk antibodies were from santa cruz . monoclonal antibodies against full length irs were made in the laboratory . all inhibitors cytokines and growth _PROTEIN_ were _PROTEIN_ from calbiochem . a brdurd cell proliferation kit was _PROTEIN_ from oncogene research products . dulbecco 's phosphate buffered saline _PROTEIN_ amino acid solution and dextrose were from invitrogen . mouse embryonic fibroblasts were from roger davis . point mutants for to ala were generated using the stratagene quikchange xl site directed mutagenesis method . cell dependent mouse myeloid cells were _PROTEIN_ in rpmi medium supplemented with fetal bovine serum wehi and mm histidinol . _PROTEIN_ a few endogenous insulin receptors but no endogenous irs proteins . overexpression of irs in cells reconstitutes many aspects of the insulin signaling pathway . these cells were starved for at least h before treatment with insulin/igf i . all inhibitors were added min before insulin or growth _PROTEIN_ treatment at . and were generated by electroporation and selected in histidinol as described previously . chinese _METHOD_ ovary _PROTEIN_ cells were _PROTEIN_ in ham 's f medium supplemented with fetal bovine serum . mefs were _PROTEIN_ in dulbecco 's modified eagle 's medium _PROTEIN_ containing fetal bovine serum . _PROTEIN_ and mef cells were starved for at least h before inhibitor or insulin treatment . cell lysis immunoprecipitation and western cells were starved for h in serum free medium and stimulated with insulin for the indicated times . cells were lysed in mm tris ph containing nm nacl mm edta nonidet p mm naf mm glycerophosphate vanadate mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride leupeptin and aprotinin . immunoprecipitations were performed for h at followed by collection on protein a/g sepharose . lysates and immunoprecipitates were resolved by _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and transferred to nitrocellulose . proteins were detected by immunoblotting with specific antibodies . a similar protocol was used for _PROTEIN_ and mef cells . muscle samples from mice were prepared as in ref . . amino acid cells were cultured in ham 's f medium as described previously . for the starvation of amino acids cells were starved for at least h in serum free medium . cells were then washed twice with and incubated in the same buffer for h. a final concentration of amino acids or mm of d _PROTEIN_ were added to the cells for min followed by a min treatment with insulin . cell proliferation i stimulated proliferation of cells was assayed according to the company 's manual . briefly cells in log phase growth were washed twice in phosphate buffered saline and counted by the trypan blue exclusion method using a hematocytometer . of cells at a density of cells/ml were seeded into a well culture dish . cells were allowed to grow for h. brdurd label was added to the cells for h at . brdurd incorporation was measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay using a dual wavelength spectrometric plate reader . as controls we included a blank containing only tissue culture medium and a background control containing only cells that were not labeled with brdurd . each condition was done in triplicate and the average absorbance values were used in plotting the results .
