mice rendered null for dystrobrevin a component of the dystrophin complex have muscular dystrophy despite the _PROTEIN_ that the sarcolemma remains relatively intact nat . cell biol . thus dystrobrevin may serve a signaling function that is important for the _PROTEIN_ of muscle integrity . we have identified a new dystrobrevin associated protein damage that may play a signaling role in brain muscle and peripheral nerve . in humans damage is encoded by an intronless gene located at chromosome a locus that contains genes involved in mental retardation . damage associates directly with dystrobrevin as shown by yeast two hybrid and co immunoprecipitates with the dystrobrevin syntrophin complex from brain . this co immunoprecipitation is dependent on the presence of dystrobrevin but not dystrobrevin . the damage protein contains a potential _LOCATION_ localization signal amino acid repeats and two mage homology domains . the domain structure of damage is similar to that of _PROTEIN_ a mage protein that mediates neurotrophin receptor signaling and neuronal apoptosis neuron . damage is highly _PROTEIN_ in brain and is present in the cell bodies and dendrites of hippocampal and purkinje neurons . in skeletal muscle damage is at the postsynaptic _LOCATION_ and is associated with a subset of myonuclei . damage is also _PROTEIN_ in peripheral nerve where it localizes along with other members of the dystrophin complex to the perineurium and myelin . these results expand the role of dystrobrevin and the dystrophin complex in _LOCATION_ signaling and disease .
isolation of damage cdna and properties of the encoded two hybrid screening of a mouse brain cdna library was performed using full length mouse cdna . of clones screened clones interacted with as determined by growth on leu /trp /his plates and generation of galactosidase activity . four of these clones interacted with the binding domain alone or with the binding domain fused to an unrelated sequence . sequencing of the remaining clones revealed that of the clones encoded overlapping parts of a protein that we have named damage . a full length clone of mouse damage as well as several partial clones were identified by a search of the est data base . similarly the human damage orthologue was identified as an uninterrupted genomic sequence on the x chromosome . the human nucleotide sequence of bp is located at and likely encodes the entire mrna for damage . furthermore this sequence contains a single uninterrupted open reading frame of nucleotides beginning at . thus damage appears to be encoded by an intronless gene . although unusual this trait is common among genes encoding mhd proteins . additional mouse human and macaque genes encoding damage were found in under the accession numbers and _PROTEIN_ nucleotides . a mouse sequence called mage is identical to the mouse damage sequence but is missing nucleotides of coding sequence . however several other sequences named mage that encode alternatively spliced _METHOD_ of a different mage protein are also present in . therefore the name mage is ambiguous . in addition hepatocellular carcinoma antigen is identical to damage however this name is inadequate to describe a protein that is predominantly _PROTEIN_ in the central nervous system in non pathological conditions . the confusion generated by current nomenclature has prompted us to refer to the protein identified here as damage to emphasize its interaction with dystrobrevin and to distinguish it from mage cloned by sasaki and co workers . a comparison of the human mouse and macaque sequences reveals that all three are highly homologous in their c terminal portions sharing at least amino acid identity to the human sequence . however the mouse protein is divergent in the n terminal half of the protein which is primarily composed of repeats . in both macaque and human the repeated sequence is very pronounced and highly conserved . however the mouse sequence contains only occasional identifiable elements of the repeats . this divergence leads to a dna and amino acid identity between the mouse and human sequences whereas the human and macaque sequences are identical at both the dna and protein levels . the homology between mouse and human is very high in the c terminal half of the protein . the homology is particularly high in the two mhds suggesting that they are highly conserved across species . finally the first amino acids including a string of arginines are identical in all three species . the sequence of damage contains several interesting structural features . first damage has homology to a family of proteins known as the melanoma associated antigens protein family that has members all of which contain motifs known as mage homology domains . damage is one of only a few proteins that contain two mhds located in the c terminal half of the protein and is most closely related to two other type ii mhd proteins named necdin and mage . another interesting feature of damage is the presence of contiguous amino acid repeats beginning at residue with the consensus sequence a egpstsvppt . this consensus sequence does not appear to be related to any other known repeat sequence . the repeats are very prominent in the human sequence but are much less pronounced in the mouse sequence with only small portions of the repeated sequence readily identifiable in the latter . the damage repeat domain may be hyperphosphorylated on serine and threonine as there are sites in mouse and in human that have a consensus sequence recognized by either protein kinase c or casein kinase ii . finally the repeat region of damage contains numerous prolines serines threonines and acidic residues . sequences rich in these amino acids can target the protein for degradation by either the s proteasome or calpain . a score greater than using the pestfind program suggests that a sequence is a genuine pest domain . the human/macaque sequence has potential pest sequences with scores of and . the mouse sequence with its less prominent repeats has three pest domains with scores of and . finally a region with a high concentration of basic amino acids _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ near the n terminus of damage may be a _LOCATION_ localization sequence . the basic residues in the mouse sequence are interrupted by several amino acids suggesting that the mouse nls is bipartite whereas human and macaque have larger monopartite basic nlss . neither sequence has a proline or acidic amino acid directly preceding the basic residues indicative of a classic nls . however the sequence upstream of the basic residues is identical among the three species demonstrating that it is conserved and suggesting that they may be involved in the nls or some other function of damage . although the functionality of these putative nlss has not been tested it is intriguing that damage can be found in _LOCATION_ and perinuclear locations . regions of interaction between dystrobrevin and an effort to define the binding site between dystrobrevin and damage we tested truncated _METHOD_ of damage for interaction with dystrobrevin by yeast two hybrid . the minimal portion of damage required for the interaction with dystrobrevin is a residue sequence that includes the second mhd as well as the c terminus of the protein . shorter segments of damage were inactive possibly because dystrobrevin interacts with multiple sites within this region or because the smaller segments do not fold properly . dystrobrevin was also truncated to determine the region involved in its association with damage . the only dispensable sequence was residues of the c terminus of the protein downstream of the zz domain . thus the zz domain may be involved in the association of the two proteins . however because a large portion of dystrobrevin is required for interaction _PROTEIN_ structure may play an important role in the association of with damage . _PROTEIN_ pattern of damage of damage mrna on a multiple mouse tissue northern blot revealed a single transcript of kb consistent with a coding region of bp plus a utr of bp and a utr estimated to be bp . this is very similar to the expected size of the full length transcript encoded on the human x chromosome . the transcript is _PROTEIN_ most abundantly in brain but is present at lower levels in all of the other tissues examined including heart liver kidney spleen testes lung thymus placenta and skeletal muscle . characterization of anti damage studies of damage association with the dystrophin complex we produced three antibodies against peptides derived from the mouse damage sequence . affinity purified antibodies were tested to determine whether they react with damage _PROTEIN_ in _PROTEIN_ cells and secondarily with a protein of the expected size in brain and sciatic nerve homogenates . all three of the antibodies recognize a kda protein in damage transfected _PROTEIN_ cells but the rvarp antibody reacts non specifically with an unidentified kda protein present in untransfected cells . these experiments also demonstrate that the antibodies recognize smaller bands that are proteolytic fragments of damage because they are seen only in the transfected cells . in whole lysates from brain all three antibodies recognize a protein of the size expected for damage . unfortunately the rvarp antibody recognizes both damage and another protein of higher molecular weight in peripheral nerve . therefore the slvs antibody was used for the studies on peripheral nerve . association of damage with the dystrophin dystrobrevin syntrophin complex in and immunoblotting experiments were performed to determine whether damage associates with the dystrophin complex in vivo . brain extracts were used for these experiments because damage mrna is most abundant in this tissue . these studies were based in part on the knowledge that _METHOD_ of syntrophin are tightly associated with dystrobrevin . thus proteins associated with dystrobrevin should be present in immune complexes isolated with antibodies to syntrophin or dystrobrevin . for these experiments we used pan specific mab that recognizes and syntrophins and mab db against dystrobrevin . as expected complexes isolated with either of these mabs contain dystrobrevin . these protein complexes also contained a band of kda recognized by the damage anti peptide antibody . the anti damage antibody also detects a lower band in these extracts that is probably a breakdown product of the full length protein . we also performed the reverse experiment in which anti damage was used to isolate protein complexes . protein complexes isolated with anti damage contained dystrobrevin . in each case no immunoreactive band was seen in the control lane containing material immunoprecipitated with an unrelated control antibody . in addition preincubation of the damage antibody with a fold excess of the immunizing peptide eliminated detection of the damage band whereas incubation with a fold excess of an unrelated peptide had no effect . taken together these results provide strong evidence that complexes of damage and dystrobrevin exist in vivo . we used mice lacking dystrobrevin to provide additional evidence for a specific interaction between damage and dystrobrevin . protein complexes were isolated with the pan syntrophin antibody from brain extracts prepared from wild type or / mice . damage co purified with syntrophin presumably via their mutual association with dystrobrevin from wild type extracts but was absent from complexes isolated from / brain . the amounts of syntrophin isolated were similar in the two cases and the levels of damage in whole lysates from wt and / brain are similar . therefore association of damage with the syntrophin dystrobrevin complex requires the presence of dystrobrevin . furthermore dystrobrevin co purified with syntrophins as expected from previous work . however despite the presence of dystrobrevin damage was absent . thus damage does not appear to interact with dystrobrevin . these results taken together with the yeast two hybrid results strongly support a direct and specific association of dystrobrevin and damage mediated by a region of dystrobrevin upstream of the syntrophin binding domains and a site near the second mhd of damage . damage localization in brain muscle and peripheral brain damage is present in a select population of neurons . in particular neurons of the dentate gyrus and the pyramidal cells of the hippocampus stain brightly for damage as do the purkinje neurons of the cerebellum . the staining is intense in the cell bodies and extends into the dendrites of the neurons . identical staining patterns were observed with both the slvs and edean antibodies and both were blocked by preincubation with the immunizing peptide . unfortunately our attempts to perform colocalization studies with damage and dystrobrevin in brain failed due to inconsistencies in antibody labeling with isoform specific dystrobrevin antibodies . however it has been well established that dystrophin complexes are present in neurons including those of the hippocampus and cerebellum that contain damage . in order to determine whether damage and dystrobrevin co localize we turned to skeletal muscle where the distribution of dystrobrevin has been thoroughly characterized . although dystrobrevin is highly _PROTEIN_ on the sarcolemma we were not able to detect significant levels of damage on the muscle _LOCATION_ . this is consistent with the low _PROTEIN_ level of damage in skeletal muscle . however in muscle cross sections damage antibodies stain peripheral nerve intensely . this staining was particularly bright in the perineurium a layer of epithelial cells that surrounds the nerve and _METHOD_ the blood nerve barrier . dystrobrevin is also present in this structure as is the dystrophin homologue utrophin . within the nerve dystrobrevin and damage co localize in a patchy crescent shaped distribution on the schwann cell _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ . the dystrophin short form as well as are also present on the abaxonal schwann cell _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ . based on its distribution damage may associate with the dystrophin complex in multiple structures of peripheral nerve . damage is also present at neuromuscular synapses where both dystrobrevin and are concentrated . here damage appears not to colocalize with acetylcholine receptors but instead occupies a submembrane compartment directly beneath the synapse . in addition the damage antibodies stain a subset of _LOCATION_ in muscle sections most of which are myonuclei . this is particularly apparent in the central _LOCATION_ of regenerating fibers of / muscle . few _LOCATION_ of invading cells of dystrophic muscle are labeled for damage . it is noteworthy that the hoechst staining _LOCATION_ and the damage immunostaining are not precisely coincident . thus damage may reside within _LOCATION_ and/or in perinuclear compartments . dystrobrevin associated proteins such as syncoilin and dysbindin are up regulated in dystrophin deficient mdx mouse muscle . we examined the distribution of damage in mdx as well as / muscle to determine whether there is any change in its distribution . no major difference in the distribution of damage at neuromuscular synapses or in peripheral nerves of either mdx or / mice were found .
yeast two hybrid _LOCATION_ acid sequence encoding mouse dystrobrevin was subcloned into the yeast two hybrid vector by using standard methods . this bait plasmid when transfected into the yeast strain caused no autoactivation of the histidine and galactosidase reporter genes . library screens were performed by sequential transfection of a mouse brain cdna library in the vector on leu /trp /his plates containing mm amino triazole . the prey plasmid was isolated from positive clones by standard methods and the clones were sequenced to determine their identities . each positive clone was tested for specificity of interaction by retransformation into the yeast strain alone with the empty bait vector or with the bait vector containing the pdz domain of spinophilin and was tested for growth on leu /trp /his plates and for galactosidase activity . the clones were also tested in the more stringent yeast strain to confirm the interaction . clones that passed these tests were considered positive and were characterized further . isolation of full length damage cdna dna sequence of the longest yeast clone obtained was used to search the ncbi data base using the blast search program . mouse clone was identified sequenced using standard methods and found to contain a full length mouse damage sequence including a small portion of utr . this clone was generously provided by katsuyuki hashimoto . to pan syntrophin pan dystrobrevin and dystrophin and syntrophin were described previously . a pan dystrobrevin monoclonal antibody db is commercially available . antibodies to damage were raised against keyhole limpet hemocyanin conjugated peptides with the sequences slvsqnsrrrrggranarr rvarpfrrplfaevapeld and edeanraeagrrplivrnlr that correspond to amino acids and respectively of the mouse damage sequence . the conjugated peptides were injected into new zealand white rabbits on a boost and bleed schedule that followed established protocols . immune serum was affinity purified on columns containing the immunizing peptide . immunoprecipitations immunohistochemistry and tissue samples were prepared in volumes of reducing _PROTEIN_ gel sample buffer in a dounce homogenizer and boiled for min . insoluble material was removed by centrifugation at g before separation of proteins by _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ . dystrophin protein complexes were immunoprecipitated from mouse brain as described previously . briefly unstripped mouse brains were homogenized in ml of hb in a waring blender . the insoluble fraction was collected by centrifugation at g and homogenized in ml of hb using a vertishear homogenizer . this fraction was centrifuged again at g for min and the pellet was homogenized in hb containing triton x . the detergent insoluble material was removed by centrifugation at g and the final supernatant was divided into appropriate volumes . immunoprecipitations were performed using of antibody or control igg . the immunocomplexes were isolated with protein g sepharose beads and were washed twice in hb triton x twice in hb triton x and once with hb containing protease inhibitors . the immune complexes were then boiled in reducing sample buffer and loaded onto polyacrylamide gels and separated by _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ . following _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ proteins were transferred to immobilon nylon _LOCATION_ . _LOCATION_ were blocked in tbst containing non fat dry milk overnight at . antigen detection was performed by overlaying blots with the appropriate antibody diluted to a final igg concentration of nm . blots were then washed and incubated with either donkey anti rabbit igg or donkey anti mouse igg secondary antibodies conjugated to horseradish peroxidase diluted . bands were visualized by enhanced chemiluminescence using super signal west pico ecl substrate and an alphainnotech gel documentation system . for brain immunohistochemistry mice were sacrificed and the brain was removed and grossly dissected into chunks that contained the hippocampus or cerebellum . these were incubated in paraformaldehyde in _PROTEIN_ with sucrose for min and then in sucrose overnight at . the tissue was then covered with oct frozen in liquid nitrogen and cryosectioned at . for muscle and nerve immunohistochemistry mdx and mice rendered null for dystrobrevin and by targeted disruption of exon of the dystrobrevin gene were sacrificed and the quadriceps and soleus/gastrocnemius muscles were rapidly removed frozen in liquid nitrogen cooled isopentane and cryosectioned at . cryostat sections were fixed in paraformaldehyde blocked with bovine serum albumin fish gelatin and tween in _PROTEIN_ and labeled with primary antibody at a concentration of nm . the sections were then washed in _PROTEIN_ and incubated with goat anti rabbit igg conjugated to alexa diluted or goat anti mouse igg conjugated to alexa diluted washed in _PROTEIN_ and stained with hoechst . labeled sections were viewed using a zeiss axioskop equipped with a zeiss axiocam and axiovision software or with a leica tcs confocal microscope . images were imported into adobe photoshop for final cropping and adjustment of brightness and contrast . northern mouse multiple tissue northern blot _PROTEIN_ from sigma was probed with a labeled full length damage cdna . hybridization and washing of the blot were done using perfecthybe plus hybridization solution following the perfecthybe plus protocol .
