substrate specificity of condensing enzymes is a predominant _PROTEIN_ determining the nature of fatty acyl chains synthesized by type ii fatty acid synthase enzyme complexes composed of discrete enzymes . the gene encoding the condensing enzyme ketoacyl _PROTEIN_ synthase constituent of the mitochondrial fas was cloned from arabidopsis thaliana and its product was purified and characterized . the mtkas cdna complemented the kas ii defect in the e. coli strain mutated in both fabb and fabf encoding kas i and kas ii respectively demonstrating its ability to catalyze the condensation reaction in fatty acid synthesis . in vitro assays using extracts of containing all e. coli fas components except that kas i and ii were replaced by mtkas gave fatty acids exhibiting a bimodal distribution with peaks at and . previously observed bimodal distributions obtained using mitochondrial extracts appear attributable to the mtkas enzyme in the extracts . although the mtkas sequence is most similar to that of bacterial kas iis sensitivity of mtkas to the antibiotic cerulenin resembles that of e. coli kas i . in the first or priming condensation reaction of de novo fatty acid synthesis purified his tagged mtkas efficiently utilized malonyl _PROTEIN_ but not acetyl coa as primer substrate . intracellular targeting using green _METHOD_ protein western blot and deletion analyses identified an n terminal signal conveying mtkas into mitochondria . thus mtkas with its broad chain length specificity accomplishes all condensation steps in mitochondrial fatty acid synthesis whereas in _LOCATION_ three kas enzymes are required .
isolation of a cdna encoding sequence in was previously suggested to code for a kas participating in mitochondrial fatty acid synthesis in a. thaliana . to confirm this hypothesis we cloned and characterized a cdna designated mtkas corresponding to . the mtkas cdna contained an open reading frame of bp encoding a polypeptide of amino acids _METHOD_ . comparison of the sequence of the cdna and revealed that mtkas is composed of exons and introns . southern blot analysis confirmed that mtkas is a single copy gene in the a. thaliana genome as predicted from the genome sequence . the deduced amino acid sequence of mtkas is compared with those of kas i and kas ii of e. coli and a. thaliana _LOCATION_ in fig . . residues of mtkas share and identities with e. coli kas i and ii and and with a. thaliana kas i and ii respectively . comparison with other kas i and ii isozymes of bacteria and plant _LOCATION_ disclosed greater identities with bacterial kas ii enzymes than with bacterial kas i and plant _LOCATION_ kas i and ii enzymes . potential active site residues cys and two histidines his and his requisite for catalysis are present in the mtkas sequence placing it in the chh group of kas enzymes to which kas i and ii belong . lys is another residue present in the active site and peculiar to the chh group of kas enzymes . the mtkas sequence is distinguished from the other sequences by an insertion of residues which occurs in a residue strand forming part of the capping region . an analogous insert is present in all other mitochondrial kas sequences consisting of residues . the residue n terminal extension of a. thaliana mtkas relative to e. coli kas ii has characteristics of a mitochondrial transit peptide i.e . an overall positive charge resulting from the relatively high proportion of arginines and the lack of negatively charged residues . to probe the evolutionary relationship of mtkas to other kas enzymes a phylogenetic tree was constructed based on the amino acid sequences of chh kas isozymes from bacteria plants fungi and animals excluding n terminal extensions . the resulting tree confirmed the close relationship between two distinct groups of _LOCATION_ enzymes and that they were more closely related to bacterial kas ii than kas i isozymes as previously noted . five of the mtkas sequences form a fifth group that is even more closely related to bacterial kas ii enzymes than the _LOCATION_ enzymes are . the sixth mtkas from s. cerevisiae sc mt was interesting as it was not included in any of the five groups . complementation of an e. coli fabf confirm that mtkas cdna encodes a functional kas enzyme the arabidopsis mtkas cdna was _PROTEIN_ in a heterologous system namely the e. coli mutant which lacks kas ii activity encoded by fabf and has a temperature sensitive kas i encoded by fabb . thus grows and synthesizes both saturated and unsaturated fatty acids at but not at . as shown in fig . when the mutant was transformed with the plasmid the resulting transformants did not grow at . by contrast transformants with pmtkas which encodes the mtkas lacking n terminal residues grew at but only on the plate supplemented with the unsaturated fatty acid oleic acid . the same result was observed when was transformed with pfabf carrying the wild type fabf gene . these observations infer that pmtkas just as pfabf restores the activity to synthesize only saturated fatty acids . transformants with pfabb carrying the wild type fabb gene grew at even in the absence of oleic acid as expected . complementation of the fabf defect in clearly demonstrated that the mtkas cdna encodes an e. coli kas ii like protein i.e . mtkas is able to elongate saturated acyl chains from to at least _PROTEIN_ . whether it is also able to extend to is not revealed by the present study . to examine the effect of the n terminal extension on the activity of mtkas complementation tests with were carried out with mtkas cdnas encoding mtkas having a full length n terminal extension and four n terminal deletions . comparative growth of transformants is shown in fig . . transformants with pmtkas pmtkas and pmtkas grew well whereas those with pmtkas and pmtkas showed at best only the same faint growth exhibited by the empty vector on oleic acid containing medium at . western blot analysis of soluble extracts of all the transformants readily detected mtkas proteins corresponding in size to and but none in the vector and extracts . these results demonstrate that the n terminal residues of mtkas are not necessary for the function of mtkas and that when or more residues are deleted the translated protein is unstable . thus for a functional mtkas at least three residues need to precede val which corresponds to the first residue of the first strand in the core structure of the e. coli kas i and kas ii enzymes . our experimental results reveal that the psort prediction of a cleavage site between gly and val for the arabidopsis mtkas target sequence which is just after the loop following the first sheet in the core structure is incorrect . presumably the analogous psort predictions for the deduced sequences of human and mouse mtkas are also incorrect . synthesis of acyl _PROTEIN_ by mtkas in crude extracts of e. coli investigate the ability of the mtkas to carry out the condensation reactions crude soluble protein extracts prepared from the transformants grown at in the presence of oleic acid were used for elongation assays . the control transformant with the vector was grown at . acetyl coa and malonyl coa were incubated as potential substrates with each extract . labeled acyl _PROTEIN_ produced during a min incubation at were separated by electrophoresis with a polyacrylamide gel containing m or m urea electroblotted to pvdf _LOCATION_ and visualized by autoradiography . only acetyl and malonyl _PROTEIN_ were detected in the extract of the vector control . malonyl _PROTEIN_ was generated by transfer of the malonyl group from malonyl coa to _PROTEIN_ by mcat and acetyl _PROTEIN_ by decarboxylation of malonyl _PROTEIN_ by kas iii . both mcat and kas iii are present in e. coli soluble protein extracts . the pmtkas transformant extract by contrast synthesized a series of saturated acyl _PROTEIN_ with up to _PROTEIN_ . of these medium chain and _PROTEIN_ plus the long chain _PROTEIN_ were detected as major bands resulting in a bimodal distribution . with the pfabb and pfabf transformant extracts as expected predominantly long chain acyl _PROTEIN_ both saturated and unsaturated were produced . these results demonstrate that mtkas can catalyze many of the condensation reactions in fatty acid synthesis and that it is compatible with all relative components of the e. coli fas . whether mtkas is able to carry out the first condensation step to yield _PROTEIN_ was unresolved however because of the presence of e. coli kas iii in the extracts . cerulenin known as an irreversible inhibitor of type ii fas binds to the active site cysteine residue of kas i and ii enzymes and blocks their condensation activities . although _LOCATION_ and bacterial kas i enzymes are more sensitive to cerulenin than kas iis the structural basis for this difference is not yet known . to check the effect of cerulenin on the activity of mtkas extracts of transformants were incubated in the presence of nmol of cerulenin before adding the substrates . as shown in fig . mtkas activity was almost completely inhibited by the addition of nmol of cerulenin . thus it is at least as sensitive to cerulenin as kas i of e. coli . treating e. coli kas ii with nmol of cerulenin had a little effect on saturated fatty acid synthesis compared with that on mtkas and e. coli kas i as expected . even with nmol of cerulenin some elongation still occurred . the present results disclose that mtkas is very sensitive to cerulenin and imply that cys is essential for catalysis . the mtkas and e. coli kas i and ii proteins _PROTEIN_ in were unstable in the crude extracts during storage at in break buffer which lacks glycerol . this was most marked for mtkas which initially synthesized prominent amounts of and acyl chains . after being stored for a week at however mtkas synthesized predominantly acyl chains an ability that was _PROTEIN_ for at least weeks of storage . the first condensation reaction carried out by examine the ability of mtkas to carry out the first condensation reaction the mtkas protein was purified with aid of a his tag . this is the first report to our knowledge of a plant chh type kas being readily purified as an active enzyme . as shown in fig . the activity assay was designed to reveal whether mtkas could condense two _PROTEIN_ units to give a acyl chain and if so whether the primer substrate was activated by coa as characteristic for kas iii or by _PROTEIN_ as characteristic for kas i and ii . in the course of the assay malonyl _PROTEIN_ is generated from malonyl coa by mcat . decarboxylation of malonyl _PROTEIN_ to acetyl _PROTEIN_ the donor substrate is the second part of the tripartite kas reaction . decarboxylation assays using similar concentrations of mtkas as in the present assay revealed an activity similar to that exhibited by e. coli kas i . acetyl and malonyl _PROTEIN_ standards are shown in lanes and . in the final step of the kas reaction ketobutyryl _PROTEIN_ is synthesized if labeled malonyl coa is present in the reaction mixture as illustrated for mtkas . the addition of kr and nadph to the assay resulted in the reduction of the keto _PROTEIN_ to hydroxybutyryl _PROTEIN_ . the latter was not formed if either kr or the cofactor nadph upon which it is dependent was omitted . why the reduction is not more efficient is unknown . a fold increase in kr had no effect on the reduction of oh _PROTEIN_ . the presence or absence of unlabeled acetyl coa had no noticeable effect on the production of oh _PROTEIN_ and incorporation of radioactivity into oh _PROTEIN_ from acetyl coa was not detected under the tested conditions . these results demonstrate that mtkas possesses the ability to carry out the first condensation reaction and malonyl _PROTEIN_ is a sole _PROTEIN_ source for the first condensation reaction catalyzed by mtkas i.e . it provides both the primer and donor substrates . the same series of assays was carried out using a purified his tagged e. coli kas ii in place of mtkas . two interesting differences emerged . first only traces of ketoacyl _PROTEIN_ were detectable as predicted from its known instability . second acetyl coa can serve as the primer substrate for kas ii albeit inefficiently as witnessed by a minor amount of oh _PROTEIN_ . this band was absent if either kr or nadph was omitted from the assay mixture . _PROTEIN_ of mtkas in a. size of the transcript of the mtkas gene was checked by northern blot analysis using poly rna prepared from week old a. thaliana leaves . a single hybridizing signal was detected at the position of nucleotides which was close to the size of the nucleotides of the cloned mtkas cdna . this discrepancy in size presumably arises from the absence of the downstream region and poly tail in the cdna . to estimate the _PROTEIN_ level of the mtkas gene in organs rt pcr analysis was carried out using total rnas prepared from leaves roots and flowers . in all tested organs a dna fragment corresponding to mtkas cdna was detected at relatively similar levels as was the control gene for tubulin . these results suggest that the mtkas gene is _PROTEIN_ at the same level in these three organs . intracellular localization of mtkas in a. mentioned above mtkas has a putative mitochondrial transit peptide on its n terminus implying its presence in this organelle . to explore this possibility we prepared _LOCATION_ microsomal chloroplast and mitochondrial fractions from a. thaliana leaves and investigated the intracellular localization by western blot analysis using an antibody against mtkas . a single band at kda corresponding in size to the mtkas lacking residues was detected only in the mitochondrial fraction . to check the purity of the mitochondrial proteins the same fractions were analyzed with an antibody against pea h protein a subunit of the glycine decarboxylase complex present in mitochondrial _PROTEIN_ . the lower panel in fig . shows that h protein was primarily in the mitochondrial fraction . these results support the contention that mtkas is located in mitochondria . to provide further evidence of the mtkas target site we prepared a recombinant plasmid that encodes the n terminal residues of mtkas fused to _METHOD_ . this recombinant plasmid pmtkastp _METHOD_ was introduced into by tobacco cells by particle bombardment . as a control the same construct lacking the mtkas sequence _METHOD_ was also introduced . the transformed by cells were examined with a laser scanning microscope . as shown in fig . the green _METHOD_ represents the site where _METHOD_ is present and the red _METHOD_ from mito tracker red identifies the mitochondria . in the cells in which pmtkastp _METHOD_ was introduced the green _METHOD_ from _METHOD_ overlapped extensively with the red _METHOD_ from mitochondria indicating that the mtkas _METHOD_ fusion protein was targeted into mitochondria in by cells . by contrast in the cells in which _METHOD_ was introduced the green _METHOD_ from _METHOD_ was observed in the cytoplasm and _LOCATION_ . these results demonstrate that mtkas is located in mitochondria and suggest that the n terminal region of mtkas functions as a mitochondrial transit peptide .
plant . thaliana was grown on vermiculite under continuous light at a photon flux density of m s at . bright yellow cells of tobacco were obtained from dr. t. nagata . the cells were grown in modified linsmaier and skoog 's medium as described by nagata et al . . construction of a cdna library and cloning of the mtkas cdna using polymerase chain reaction rnas were isolated from leaves and roots of week old a. thaliana with an mrna purification kit . the cdna library was constructed with cdnas which were prepared from the poly rnas with a cdna synthesis kit and a phage vector according to the protocols from the manufacturer . phage dnas prepared from this library served as templates for pcr . the primers tccgcttaaaccgcttcatc and tgctgtcctaactaacatct were designed to amplify the central region of a predicted mtkas cdna derived from . the terminal region of mtkas cdna was amplified using the primers _PROTEIN_ and tcttcgacaagaggttcatgcctt that anneal to the cloning site of and to an internal region of the deduced mtkas cdna respectively . the terminal region of mtkas cdna was amplified by the rapid amplification of cdna ends method _PROTEIN_ . the phosphorylated primer gcaactgccttagag was used for synthesis of cdna using total rnas isolated from a. thaliana leaves with a purification kit . the following two sets of primers were used for the first and second pcr in the rapid amplification of cdna ends respectively tttgtgccttatggatcaaaccct and gcagcaactttagaagaaagctga ggtgaatttgatgaagccct and _PROTEIN_ . each of the three amplified fragments was subcloned into _PROTEIN_ and its nucleotide sequence was determined . combining the nucleotide sequences of the internal and regions gave a full length cdna of the predicted a. thaliana mtkas of bp . homology search and phylogenetic homologous to the predicted sequence of mtkas were retrieved using a blastp program at national center for biotechnology information . these sequences from bacteria plant _LOCATION_ yeast fungi and animals were aligned with that of mtkas using clustal x version followed by adjustment with the naked eye . the known or deduced n terminal regions corresponding to transit peptides and internal gaps were removed prior to analysis . distance _PROTEIN_ were generated with the protdist program in phylip version using the _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ of dayhoff et al . . a phylogenetic tree was constructed by using the neighbor joining method of the phylip neighbor program . construction of plasmids _PROTEIN_ kas of the full length mtkas cdna were created using pcr with specific primers designed to remove varying numbers of residues from the n terminal end of the mtkas protein . the specific primers catgccatggcgacatctaatctccgt catgccatggggatctctacttcttcttcttatcattca and catgccatggggcattcacatcgccgtgttg and the specific primer aactgcagttagatagaggcaaagagcaaag were used for pcr . in constructing these primers the sequences catgccatgg or aactgcag including an ncoi site and a psti site respectively were added to the end of each primer . the obtained pcr products were digested with ncoi and psti and ligated into the same sites of the _PROTEIN_ vector . the obtained plasmids were designated pmtkas pmtkas and pmtkas where the numbers after represent the number of deleted amino acids . except for pmtkas all the constructs code for an extra gly as the second residue . the pmtkas was used to fabricate an additional deletion mutant pmtkas using the quikchange site directed mutagenesis kit as described previously . the pmtkas then served as a template for construction of pmtkas . the following primers plus their complements cacacaggaaacagaccatggggcgccgtgttgttgtcactgg and cacacaggaaacagaccatgggggtcactggtctaggcatcg were used . confirmation that the five desired constructs had been obtained was ascertained by complete sequencing . the e. coli fabf gene encoding kas ii was amplified by pcr using the primer set catgccatggtgtctaagcgtcgtgtagttg and aactgcagagggtggcaaatgacaacttag . genomic dna extracted from e. coli strain functioned as the template . the pcr product was cloned into as described above to give the plasmid pfabf with an extra residue met preceding the n terminal val . the plasmid designated pfabb in this study which includes the e. coli fabb gene encoding kas i was extracted from the strain . complementation of the double mutant e. coli strain e. coli strain bears mutations in both the fabb and fabf genes . the allele codes for kas i with an amino acid substitution that results in temperature sensitivity whereas the allele encodes two amino acid substitutions that result in lack of kas ii activity . the control plasmid plus the plasmids pmtkas pfabb and pfabf were transformed into . transformants were selected by plating on luria bertani plates supplemented with ml ampicillin at . resulting colonies were then streaked onto lb plates supplemented with ml ampicillin and either or ml oleic acid and incubated at or for days . a stock solution of k oleate in ethanol was diluted with tergitol nonidet p and added to lb medium to give ml oleic acid and tergitol . elongation assay for kas enzyme of were grown in liquid lb medium supplemented with ml ampicillin and ml oleic acid at except that the transformant was grown at . cells collected from ml overnight cultures by centrifugation were suspended in ml of cold break buffer consisting of mm tris hcl mm nacl mm dithiothreitol mm edta and mg ml lysozyme . cells were ruptured by sonicating twice for s on ice . after centrifugation at g for min the supernatant was recovered as the soluble protein extract . to visualize the presence of kas proteins the soluble protein extracts were subjected to _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ followed by either _METHOD_ brilliant blue staining or transfer to a pvdf _LOCATION_ for western blot analysis with antibodies against mtkas plus kas i and kas ii of e. coli . a reaction mixture containing e. coli _PROTEIN_ acetyl coa malonyl coa malonyl coa mm nadph mm nadh and mm potassium phosphate buffer was incubated with of the soluble protein extract at for min in a shaking water bath . the reactions were stopped by addition of ml of cold trichloroacetic acid . the precipitated acyl _PROTEIN_ were collected by centrifugation resolved by or m urea _PROTEIN_ on the basis of the chain length and presence of double bonds electroblotted to a pvdf _LOCATION_ and subjected to autoradiography using a phosphorimager as described . labeled standards included _PROTEIN_ acetyl and malonyl _PROTEIN_ prepared as described below plus _PROTEIN_ prepared using a labeled fatty acid and acyl _PROTEIN_ synthase purified as described according to rock and cronan . identity of additional acyl _PROTEIN_ was deduced based on previous work . the sensitivity of the _PROTEIN_ kas enzymes to cerulenin was investigated as previously detailed with some modifications . cerulenin dissolved in ethanol was transferred to eppendorf tubes and dried under vacuum . soluble protein extracts were added to the tubes . after standing on ice for min of the reaction mixture was added and the elongation assay carried out as described above . characterization of the first condensation mtkas cdna was re cloned into pqe . this resulted in an n terminal sequence in which met gly was replaced with met arg gly ser plus a his tag of six residues followed by gly ser met . _PROTEIN_ and protein purification using ni _PROTEIN_ technology were carried out as detailed previously with overnight induction and using only the lysozyme and sonication steps to open the cells . to determine the ability of the ni _PROTEIN_ purified mtkas enzyme to initiate fatty acid synthesis by joining two _PROTEIN_ units together in the first condensation reaction an assay was developed . the assay also reveals whether the primer substrate is acetyl coa or acetyl _PROTEIN_ . _PROTEIN_ and mcat were pre incubated in the presence of dtt and then mixed with the other components of the assay mixture . the assay mixture consisting of _PROTEIN_ acetyl coa kdpm acetyl coa malonyl coa kdpm malonyl coa mm dtt with or without mm nadph in mm potassium phosphate buffer as well as of ni _PROTEIN_ purified mtkas or kas ii of e. coli with or without of kr and mcat was incubated for min at . acyl _PROTEIN_ products were analyzed as described above . radiolabeled acetyl and malonyl _PROTEIN_ standards were prepared by carrying out decarboxylase assays in the presence and absence of e. coli kas i mutant protein that has a substitution of amino acid cys with ala and efficiently decarboxylates malonyl _PROTEIN_ to acetyl _PROTEIN_ . northern and reverse transcription pcr rnas used for northern blot analysis were extracted from week old a. thaliana leaves using an mrna purification kit . approximately of poly rnas were separated by electrophoresis in a agarose gel and transferred to a nylon _LOCATION_ . hybridization and detection were performed using a dna labeling and detection system . total rnas used for rt pcr were extracted from leaves roots and flowers of week old a. thaliana with an rna extraction kit . the primer set used for amplifying and cloning of the mtkas sequence was used for rt pcr as described before . as a control the _PROTEIN_ of the gene for tubulin of a. thaliana was also checked with the same rna preparations using the primer set ctactgagagaagatgcgag and caacatctcctcggtacatc . _PROTEIN_ of mtkas in e. coli and antibody mtkas sequence was amplified using the primer set cgccatggcgacatctaatctccgt and cgccatggttagatagaggcaaaga . in constructing these primers the sequence cgccatgg including an ncoi site was added to the end of each primer . the obtained pcr products were digested with ncoi and ligated into the same site of the _PROTEIN_ vector pet . the obtained plasmid was used to transform e. coli . _PROTEIN_ of mtkas in purification of mtkas protein and production of a polyclonal antibody against this protein were performed using a previously described procedure . cell fractionation and western blot _LOCATION_ microsome mitochondrial and chloroplast fractions were prepared from week old a. thaliana leaves and used for western blot analysis as described . construction and visualization of mtkas green _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ fusion mtkas cdna sequence encoding the n terminal residues was amplified by pcr with the primer set gcgtcgacatggcgacatctaatctccgtaga and catgccatggttgtttcaacgcctctaccaag . the sequences gcgtcgacat or catgccatgg including a sali site and an ncoi respectively were added to the end of each primer . the pcr product was digested with sali and ncoi and ligated into the sali ncoi site of the _METHOD_ plasmid designated _METHOD_ . the obtained recombinant plasmid pmtkastp _METHOD_ and _METHOD_ were introduced into tobacco by cells prepared from a day old culture with a particle bombardment device _PROTEIN_ according to instructions from the manufacturer . the applied conditions were p.s.i . of helium gas pressure a distance of cm from macrocarrier to cell suspension and a decompression vacuum of inches hg . tungsten particles were used as a carrier of plasmid dnas . the bombarded cells were incubated at room temperature in the dark overnight and stained with a mitochondria selective probe following the recommendations from the manufacturer . cells were examined with a confocal laser scan microscope _PROTEIN_ . excitation wavelengths were set at nm for _METHOD_ and at nm for mito tracker red . all obtained images were processed by adobe photoshop software . nucleotide sequence accession sequence data for mtkas cdna has been deposited in the ddbj embl and data bases under accession no . .
