a novel insight into arabidopsis mitochondrial function was revealed from a large experimental proteome derived by liquid chromatography tandem _METHOD_ _METHOD_ . within the experimental set of identified proteins a significant number of low abundance proteins involved in dna synthesis transcriptional regulation protein complex assembly and cellular signaling were discovered . nearly of the experimentally identified proteins are of unknown function suggesting a wealth of undiscovered mitochondrial functions in plants . only approximately half of the experimental set is predicted to be mitochondrial by targeting prediction _METHOD_ allowing an assessment of the benefits and limitations of these _METHOD_ in determining plant mitochondrial proteomes . maps of putative orthology networks between yeast human and arabidopsis mitochondrial proteomes and the rickettsia prowazekii proteome provide detailed insights into the divergence of the plant mitochondrial proteome from those of other eukaryotes . these show a clear set of putative cross species orthologs in the core metabolic functions of mitochondria whereas considerable diversity exists in many signaling and regulatory functions .
previous evaluation of the whole arabidopsis mitochondrial proteome using gel display and _METHOD_ identified a nonredundant set of proteins . a variety of more targeted studies of protein fractions and protein complexes partially purified from arabidopsis mitochondria also have been undertaken . combining the data presented in all of these reports produces a nonredundant protein set of experimentally determined arabidopsis mitochondrial proteins . our analysis of a _LOCATION_ enriched submitochondrial fraction from arabidopsis cell culture using blue native _PROTEIN_ and _METHOD_ yielded many confirmatory identifications along with an additional previously unidentified proteins . altogether discrete proteins have been identified in arabidopsis mitochondrial preparations using various gel based arraying techniques . to overcome the clear limitations of these techniques we undertook a systematic lc _METHOD_ study of total arabidopsis mitochondrial protein lysates . mitochondria were isolated using two successive percoll gradients designed to remove _LOCATION_ and peroxisomal contaminants from crude organelle pellets derived from arabidopsis cell cultures . using marker enzymes to determine the purity of these mitochondria we showed that mitochondria were separated away from _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ and peroxisomal contaminants . based on the calculations presented in methods the likely contamination on a protein basis in our purified mitochondrial samples was for _LOCATION_ protein and less than for peroxisomal protein . lc _METHOD_ allows the direct identification of peptides derived from trypsin digestions of complex polypeptide samples such as mitochondria without the use of any preliminary gel separation of the polypeptides . this approach potentially can alleviate the _METHOD_ of highly hydrophobic basic and small or very large molecular _METHOD_ proteins being excluded from analysis as often happens in polyacrylamide gel based separations . using high stringency cutoffs for peptide matching in five independent mitochondrial samples isolated in this manner the lc _METHOD_ technique produced peptide _METHOD_ spectra that could be mapped redundantly to arabidopsis proteins . an overall comparison of gel based and lc _METHOD_ methods indicated that > of the proteins identified previously by two dimensional gel analysis of whole mitochondrial samples were confirmed by lc _METHOD_ . also > of the proteins identified previously during purifications of particular subsets and protein complexes of mitochondrial proteins also were confirmed by our lc _METHOD_ . among proteins defined by gel based analysis we confirmed by lc _METHOD_ . the remaining proteins identified previously using gel based techniques were not found through the lc _METHOD_ procedure . a number of these proteins were oxidative stress induced proteins thus their absence from our lc _METHOD_ analyses of mitochondria from unstressed cells is understandable . this very high overlap between gel array techniques and the lc _METHOD_ method highlights the effectiveness of non gel based analysis and its broad application in proteomics . the data from the combination of these techniques yield a nonredundant arabidopsis mitochondrial set of proteins _METHOD_ _METHOD_ . of these are _LOCATION_ encoded proteins and are mitochondria encoded proteins . annotation of a relational database with these proteins allowed continued analysis of the set in the context of the whole arabidopsis protein set . this database is now available publicly . functional breakdown of the arabidopsis mitochondrial set each member of the mitochondrial proteome set described above was assigned to a functional category using common functional divisions . where annotations were unclear a basic local alignment search tool query against swiss prot was undertaken for functional inference . this analysis produced functional groups . known protein functions that are represented most highly in the mitochondrial proteome set are those involving energy metabolism and protein fate . the proteins in these functional groups are generally well characterized mitochondrial components of the tricarboxylic acid cycle the respiratory chain and the mitochondrial protein import processing assembly and degradation machinery . the relative _PROTEIN_ levels of proteins in these principal functional categories were profiled using est numbers . more than of the proteins that perform energy and metabolic roles and of the proteins involved in protein fate are represented by > ests . nearly of the energy group had been identified previously in gel based separations but the metabolism and protein fate groups contained many novel lc _METHOD_ identifications . approximately of the identified proteins were involved in information transfer processes were defense/stress proteins or were responsible for cellular interaction functions . the identification of proteins in these groups was aided by novel lc _METHOD_ identifications . only proteins in these functional categories were identified in previous gel based separations . we have confirmed of these by lc _METHOD_ and have added a novel set of identifications to these sets of largely low abundance components . even when sequence similarity searches were undertaken against the nonredundant protein database at the national center for biotechnology information proteins could not be confidently assigned a function and have been designated unclassified proteins . a similarly large set of unclassified proteins also was found in recent human and yeast mitochondrial proteome analyses . the physical attributes of mitochondrial proteins identified solely by isoelectric focusing followed by _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ often appear skewed compared with those of total proteomes because of the lack of identification of large and small proteins and the low detection rates of basic hydrophobic and low abundance proteins . the use of lc _METHOD_ greatly aided in the identification of large proteins and proteins that were moderately hydrophobic . the set of mitochondrial proteins covered an isoelectric point range of to a molecular _METHOD_ range of to kd and a _PROTEIN_ range of to _PROTEIN_ . the representation of proteins in est databases allowed an assessment of transcript abundance and thus probable protein abundance for different gene products . most interestingly there was a shift to much lower est numbers for the new protein set identified only by lc _METHOD_ . nearly of the novel identifications were represented by four or fewer ests . some newly identified proteins were so low in abundance that ests had not been reported by the institute for genomic research at the time of writing . the large number of low est number members in our protein set could be viewed as evidence that low abundance paralogs or even pseudogenes with high levels of identity to major protein _METHOD_ are clouding the analysis we have presented . a stringent analysis of all of the peptide sequences matched to proteins in our analysis was performed and potential paralogs in our set are listed in the supplemental data online . these findings show that proteins were identified that have no unique peptides that differentiate them from a highly similar paralog whereas another were identified with unique peptide sequences but the unique peptide were of low matching confidence . there were also two cases in which all _METHOD_ of some protein families were indistinguishable from each other as a result of very high sequence identity . however the latter are well characterized abundant mitochondrial elongation _PROTEIN_ and the subunit of _PROTEIN_ are tandemly arranged duplications on arabidopsis chromosomes . all possible paralogs of this type are annotated in the supplemental data online . however these possible paralogs represent only of the proteins identified with four or fewer ests and only of the possible paralogs are among the proteins with no registered ests . thus the low number of ests among the novel lc _METHOD_ data broadly reflects low abundance proteins within the mitochondrial proteome that originates from a low abundance proteome within plant cells . this finding strongly suggests that a significant depth of the proteome has been revealed by our analysis the identification of key low abundance components . many of these are in important areas of mitochondrial information transfer regulation and signaling . the full set of experimentally identified proteins is provided in the supplemental data online or can be relationally searched directly at the arabidopsis mitochondrial protein database . we have identified many of the well defined components of mitochondria the electron transport chain the tricarboxylic acid cycle metabolic carriers and the import apparatus . among the remaining identifications several prominent sets are worthy of more extensive comment most notably the new identifications of low abundance proteins with potentially key roles in mitochondrial function . there is increasing interest in intramitochondrial signaling pathways and also in the communication of mitochondria with the _LOCATION_ and other organelles most notably the chloroplast and the _LOCATION_ . there also is extensive discussion of reactive oxygen species as signal molecules from mitochondria to other parts of the cell but little information on the pathways involved . likewise the presence of phosphorylated proteins in plant mitochondria has been documented but again there is little information on the kinase/phosphatases involved or any associated signaling components that may regulate signaling through phosphorylation/dephosphorylation . despite the importance of calcium in regulating mammalian mitochondrial function there is no direct evidence for such a role in plants . we have found mitochondrial protein components that may be involved in some of these processes . a set of protein kinases including leu rich repeat transmembrane protein kinases receptor like protein kinases ser thr kinases and a mitogen activated protein like kinase has been identified . no potential components of phosphorylation signaling pathways have been identified previously in plant mitochondria . two of the leu rich repeat transmembrane receptor protein kinases show high sequence similarity to a protein kinase of unknown function found recently in human mitochondria . nearly all of these kinases are very poorly represented in est databases all are individuals of large protein kinases subclasses and none has a clear mitochondrial targeting sequence identified by bioinformatic predictors . in addition to these discoveries is evidence for a protein phosphatase regulatory subunit a _PROTEIN_ binding protein and several putative binding proteins . one of the putative binding proteins is very similar in sequence to one found in mammalian mitochondria . a protein with sequence similarity to _PROTEIN_ like nadph oxidase also was found . this protein generates superoxide from nadph and has been linked to mitogenic signaling and cancer in smooth muscle cells in mammals . protein kinases identified in the arabidopsis mitochondrial set more than proteins involved in protein fate were identified . these proteins spanned protein import and sorting presequence cleavage molecular chaperone complex assembly and proteolysis functions . protein components of the lon clp and ftsh protease _METHOD_ and three other putative proteases were identified . seven subunits from the translocases of the outer and inner _LOCATION_ _PROTEIN_ of the import apparatus also were found . interestingly four proteins with sequence similarity to components implicated specifically in the assembly of respiratory electron transport chain complexes were found . these included _GENE_ and _GENE_ which are similar to two yeast _PROTEIN_ required for the assembly of complex iii of the respiratory chain _PROTEIN_ . we also found a putative cytochrome c oxidase assembly _PROTEIN_ similar to the yeast _PROTEIN_ protein . the absence of _PROTEIN_ in yeast leads to < cytochrome c oxidase assembly while mutations of the human ortholog _PROTEIN_ lead to leigh syndrome . cytochrome c biogenesis in plant mitochondria occurs by the system i mechanism that is shared in common with bacteria but differs from the _METHOD_ used in chloroplasts and fungal vertebrate and invertebrate animal mitochondria . although some of the system i components are encoded in the mitochondrial genomes of plants others have been transferred to the _LOCATION_ . we have identified a protein similar to the bacterial subunit which is critical for conferring specificity to the thio redox pathway of cytochrome c biogenesis . to our knowledge this plant mitochondrial _PROTEIN_ like gene has not been described in plant studies to date . we also found two proteins similar to the yeast metalloprotease that is of the aaa type _PROTEIN_ family . these proteases have been implicated in the regulation of the electron transport chain through the degradation of unincorporated or incompletely synthesized mitochondria encoded proteins in yeast . low abundance proteins from these classes have been poorly represented in proteomic studies of plant mitochondria to date . a dna polymerase and several dna _PROTEIN_ subunits were localized to mitochondria in this study . several differentiation and greening like proteins also were found . although dag proteins were associated initially with chloroplasts a member of this gene family has been reported in two dimensional _PROTEIN_ analyses of plant mitochondria . in both snapdragon and arabidopsis the absence of specific dag proteins greatly influences chloroplast differentiation and palisade tissue development . however to our knowledge the functions of these proteins in mitochondria have not been reported . transcription initiator and terminator _PROTEIN_ and a series of proteins from transcription _PROTEIN_ gene families also were identified . we also found a protein highly similar to a protein responsible for the regulation of the abundance of transcripts from mitochondrial respiratory genes in yeast . is a _LOCATION_ encoded protein involved in the turnover of _PROTEIN_ transcripts in yeast mitochondria . we also identified peptides from several rna helicases and pentatricopeptide repeat proteins . the latter are highly represented in plant genomes and have roles as restorers of cytoplasmic male sterility and putative roles in rna editing . we have identified several proteins involved in iron metabolism including two putative abc transporters with strong sequence similarity to yeast _PROTEIN_ the mitochondrial fe s transporter . we also identified a cys desulfurase with sequence similarity to _PROTEIN_ from yeast . in yeast these proteins act in concert for the synthesis and transport of fe/s clusters and have been shown to play an essential role in the synthesis of both intramitochondrial and extramitochondrial fe/s proteins . in plants forward genetics identified this abc transporter gene as the basis for the starik mutant which has a dwarfism/chlorosis phenotype . we also identified eight carriers of the mitochondrial carrier superfamily including two additional carriers not detected in a previous analysis of this superfamily . one of these new identifications has strong similarity to carnitine acylcarnitine carriers and the other is a mitochondrial carrier of unknown function . in mammalian mitochondria carnitine acyl carrier proteins transport lipid derived molecules across mitochondrial _LOCATION_ for energy and _PROTEIN_ supply . the carnitine acylcarnitine carrier was revealed recently as the gene responsible for the bout de souffle arabidopsis mutation . this mutant plant stops developing after germination degrades storage lipids and develops further only when germinated in the dark or after the addition of exogenous sugar . we have direct evidence for the presence of enzymes putatively responsible for the bypasses of the respiratory chain in plants with proteins for rotenone insensitive nad h dependent ubiquinone oxidoreductases and the alternative oxidase reported . we also show that both the and subunits of the electron transport flavoprotein are present in arabidopsis mitochondria . these proteins are responsible for direct electron transfer from fatty acid to ubiquinone and branched chain amino acid oxidation in mammals but they have not been investigated in plants . in addition to the proteins described above proteins were identified for which no clear function could be assigned . only of these proteins were identified in previous gel based proteome analyses . the identification of these proteins provides a basis for the use of reverse genetics to identify novel mitochondrial functions in plants . to determine whether the identified proteins are truly mitochondrial or to what degree some proteins are from low level contamination in our mitochondrial samples from other cellular compartments we compared our analysis to those performed for other organelles from arabidopsis . three catalase proteins have been identified in our mitochondrial set and although several _METHOD_ of low levels of mitochondrially localized catalase in plants have been made these proteins typically represent the bulk of peroxisomal protein . two catalase proteins in our mitochondrial set are among the set of highly abundant proteins identified by citation in their peroxisomal proteome analysis . none of the other peroxisomal proteins noted by citation were found in our mitochondrial analysis . of the nonredundant proteins identified definitively in large scale _LOCATION_ lumen and envelope preparations from arabidopsis by _METHOD_ only are found in our mitochondrial set . these are presented in the supplemental data online where they are dissected into probable mitochondrial contaminants in chloroplast preparations probable chloroplast contaminants in mitochondrial preparations unknown location and probable peroxisomal contaminants in mitochondria and chloroplasts . thus there are proteins that probably represent a combination of chloroplast and peroxisomal contamination . these published sets from other organelles also are available for relational searches in a database we have established . there is the further possibility that some of these apparent contaminants could be dual targeted proteins in plants reflecting their presence in multiple compartments . we recently showed that the stromal ascorbate peroxidase and stromal monodehydroascorbate reductase identified in this lc _METHOD_ experiment are authentically dual targeted to chloroplasts and mitochondria in arabidopsis . we also have shown that a range of glycolytic enzymes identified here by lc _METHOD_ are present in our samples because glycolytic enzymes found in the _LOCATION_ also are associated functionally with the outer _LOCATION_ of plant mitochondria . because the endosymbiosis of the mitochondrial progenitor by the ancestral eukaryotic cell occurred before the divergence of plants and animals cross kingdom similarity comparisons can be used to identify putative orthologous proteins with conserved function . mitochondrial protein sets from both yeast and human are available as is the protein set from the closest living relative to the mitochondrial progenitor the bacterial endosymbiont rickettsia prowazekii . these three sets were compared with the entire arabidopsis proteome using the program inparanoid . this program searches for high stringency orthologous clusters between two protein sets providing clusters of paralogs within species and orthologs across species . gene matching using this procedure is considered to exclude many lower similarity matches for which true cluster orthology and thus conserved functionality is questionable . a reduced mitochondrial set of proteins that excluded the possible paralogs and the partially overlapping set of probable contaminants was constructed and used for this orthology comparison . a total of yeast mitochondrial proteins were identified as putative orthologs of this reduced arabidopsis mitochondrial protein set . more than of the putative orthologs fall into the major functional groups of energy metabolism and protein fate which encompass only of the total arabidopsis mitochondrial set . similar comparisons with the human mitochondrial proteome and the rickettsia protein set identified putative orthologs to human mitochondrial proteins and putative orthologs to rickettsia proteins within the arabidopsis mitochondrial set . in total of the arabidopsis mitochondrial set had putative orthologous matches with at least one protein from yeast mitochondrial human mitochondrial or rickettsia proteomic sets . the putative orthology networks derived from these comparisons has a strict common overlap of proteins in which an individual arabidopsis protein has a putative ortholog in the protein set from each of the three other species . this _METHOD_ a central cluster of putative orthologs between the rickettsia set and the current mitochondrial proteomes of divergent _METHOD_ . this common set is very heavily skewed toward the functional category of energy with several members from the metabolism and protein fate categories . we found very different putative orthology patterns when we considered the low abundance proteins involved in mitochondria cellular interaction and information transfer processes . although putative orthologous proteins were present in most of these functional classes the overlap between different _METHOD_ was very low and no one protein common to each of the protein sets was found by inparanoid analysis . the kinases observed in human and plant mitochondria were absent from yeast mitochondrial sets whereas plant transporters and transcriptional regulators present in the yeast set were not in the human set . interestingly the dna _PROTEIN_ subunits a and b found in arabidopsis mitochondria have putative orthologs among rickettsia proteins but not among yeast or human mitochondrial proteins . significantly the large set of arabidopsis proteins of unknown function do not have many putative orthologs in other species suggesting that they are likely to be largely plant specific mitochondrial proteins . minor functional group distributions of the arabidopsis mitochondrial set with matching sequence orthologs from yeast human and rickettsia we compared our reduced experimental set of proteins which contained _LOCATION_ encoded proteins with those proteins predicted to be mitochondrial by publicly available subcellular targeting prediction _METHOD_ targetp predotar mitoprot ii subloc and ipsort . the number of _LOCATION_ encoded arabidopsis proteins predicted by each program to be targeted to mitochondria ranged from to . the ability of the various targeting _METHOD_ to correctly predict the experimental arabidopsis mitochondrial set was significantly less than expected . the successful prediction rates are presented as sensitivity defined as the percentage of the experimental set predicted correctly . sensitivities of these _METHOD_ were in the range of to for the set of proteins . we then defined an even more reduced set of proteins that have been found in gel based proteome analysis and also in our lc _METHOD_ experiments these are higher abundance proteins with very high identification confidence values . in this set the sensitivities of the _METHOD_ increased to to . for comparison we also considered the prediction sensitivities of targetp and mitoprot ii on the defined mammalian and yeast mitochondrial sets . these showed sensitivities of to depending on the predictor and the species . another recent analysis of the yeast experimental mitochondrial proteome set with mitoprot ii showed that only of proteins contain predicted n terminal presequences . all of these values are significantly lower than the previously reported sensitivities of to for mitochondrial prediction that generally are attributed to these _METHOD_ . evaluation of mitochondrial prediction in arabidopsis by bioinformatic subcellular predictors the use of only well known mitochondrial proteins in the initial neural network training of these _METHOD_ may have contributed to the previously reported high percentages and the increases observed when only the major well known proteins of mitochondria were considered in our analysis . in the case of the rule based mitoprot ii sensitivity was assessed previously using a set of proteins that also would have been examined in the initial appraisal of the rules for organellar targeting . that is the previous values are based on a certain degree of circular logic and rely on a known set of largely _PROTEIN_ targeted mitochondrial proteins with classic n terminal presequences that does not truly represent the breadth of the real mitochondrial proteomes in plants animals or fungi . our experimental data set includes noncleaved proteins and/or those with internal c terminal or cryptic targeting signals that have not been incorporated in previous test sets for sensitivity . sensitivity however also must be balanced by the size of the total protein set from the genome predicted by a program to be mitochondrial . based on such comparisons the program targetp predicts the largest positive set from the smallest total pool whereas the program predotar is least efficient at predicting a similar number of our experimental set but from a larger total pool . the program with the best combination of sensitivity and total prediction set size for mitochondria in arabidopsis appears to be mitoprot ii whereas the worst performing program was subloc . a new version of predotar recently released on the world wide web provides a much smaller set size in arabidopsis but predicts only of the proteins in our experimental set . to further assess prediction program performance we assessed the overlapping prediction of the arabidopsis protein set by the five predictors . in recent studies of mitochondria combinations between targetp predotar and mitoprot ii have been selected empirically as useful sets for fast tracking the identification of possible mitochondrial functions in plants that then require experimental investigation . using relational searches a comparison of these _METHOD_ predicting mitochondrial localization was undertaken . the number of proteins uniquely predicted as mitochondrial by each of the five _METHOD_ ranged from to depending on the predictor . the program subloc shared the least similarity in its targeting prediction to the other four _METHOD_ . subloc predicted proteins representing > of its total prediction set that are not predicted to be mitochondrial by any other program . by contrast the set of mitochondrial targeted proteins predicted by targetp had the highest shared predictive set with the other _METHOD_ with only proteins predicted by this program alone . to find consensus an analysis was undertaken of the proteins uniquely predicted not to be localized to the mitochondria by a given program while the other four _METHOD_ predicted a mitochondrial localization . only subloc displayed a significant lack of accord in its prediction pool with proteins uniquely predicted not to be mitochondrial whereas the other four _METHOD_ were in agreement . prediction of mitochondrial localization in arabidopsis when the overlap of prediction between any two _METHOD_ was assessed it could be as little as and averaged only . overlap of more than two program prediction sets caused further reductions to yield sets containing only to of the arabidopsis protein set . the exclusive overlapping sets of predicted proteins are shown graphically in figure as a four way venn diagram highlighting the large sets of unique predictions by each program and the proportion of each exclusive intersect between prediction _METHOD_ . this venn diagram analysis allowed us to determine that proteins representing of the total predicted protein set from arabidopsis are predicted to contain a mitochondrial localization signal recognized by at least one of the four better prediction _METHOD_ . a mitochondrial proteome of this size is inconsistent with estimates of to of _LOCATION_ encoded protein sets proposed in other eukaryotes and would not be given credence by researchers . on the other hand all four predictors agree on members of this protein set . this analysis shows that assigning probable mitochondrial localization based on only one or two prediction _METHOD_ is unlikely to be accurate because the choice of program can greatly influence the pool of proteins selected . the accuracy of prediction is likely to be highest in the set common to all of the prediction _METHOD_ . relational combinations of the five prediction _METHOD_ indicating the number and proteomic percentage of shared proteins that they predict to be localized to the mitochondria we also used relational searches to compare directly the overlapping mitochondrial prediction sets from bioinformatic tools with our reduced experimental data set of _LOCATION_ encoded proteins in an attempt to determine the most accurate overlapping combination of predictor _METHOD_ for mitochondria . we found that although the total set predicted _PROTEIN_ when multiple predictors were used together the value of this was offset substantially by degradations in sensitivity . consequently the use of multiple relational predictions generates an enriched mitochondrial pool but also excludes many genuine mitochondrial proteins that we observed in the experimental set . thus if the sequence of an unknown protein is predicted to be mitochondrial by a number of different _METHOD_ the probability that it is mitochondrial increases however the lack of prediction by any or by only some _METHOD_ by no means precludes a mitochondrial destination .
an arabidopsis thaliana _LOCATION_ cell culture was _PROTEIN_ in citation basal medium supplemented with sucrose mg/l naphthaleneacetic acid and mg/l kinetin . cultures were incubated in the dark at in an orbital shaker at rpm . at to days each flask containing to g of cells was approximately in the middle of the log phase growth . a total of to l of day old dark grown cell suspension cultures was filtered through gauze to remove medium and the cells were dispersed in ml of grinding medium . the cells were disrupted in a waring blender by three successive s bursts . cell homogenates were filtered through cheesecloth and mitochondria were purified by differential centrifugation on two percoll gradients according to citation . purified mitochondrial aliquots were stored at . marker enzyme analysis for cytochrome c oxidase alkaline pyrophosphatase catalase and alcohol dehydrogenase was conducted according to citation . based on the specific activities of marker enzymes in the mitochondria containing fractions throughout the purification process we concluded that _LOCATION_ contamination was _PROTEIN_ by fold and peroxisomal contamination by fold during the purification . thus even if the protein content of the crude pellet fraction was _PROTEIN_ one or the other of these two contaminating organelles _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ they could only present a maximum of and protein _METHOD_ contamination respectively in our purified mitochondria . we also calculated an approximate protein _METHOD_ ratio of the three organelles in the crude organelle pellet to further refine the level of contamination by _LOCATION_ and _LOCATION_ . we did this using the protein amount found in the crude organelle pellet recovery rates and the protein amount in the purified mitochondrial fractions and _LOCATION_ fractions . this suggests that of the crude pellet protein is mitochondrial and is peroxisomal . we also calculated the amount of mitochondrial protein in the crude organelle pellet using cytochrome c oxidase specific activities in the crude organelle pellet and the purified mitochondrial samples this suggests mitochondrial protein in the crude pellet . on average these two methods give protein _METHOD_ ratios of _LOCATION_ mitochondrial and peroxisomal protein in the crude organelle pellet . thus the likely contamination on a protein basis in our purified mitochondrial samples is _LOCATION_ in origin and less than peroxisomal in origin . there was no detectible _LOCATION_ contamination . for liquid chromatography tandem _METHOD_ _METHOD_ _METHOD_ mitochondrial samples of were acetone precipitated at overnight . the resulting precipitated protein pellet was resuspended in mm tris hcl ph . the protein lysate was digested overnight at with trypsin and insoluble material was removed by centrifugation . samples of to of digested protein were analyzed on a _PROTEIN_ pulsar _METHOD_ system _METHOD_ using an in line agilent capillary lc system incorporating a mm zorbax reverse phase column for peptide separations . peptides were analyzed by _METHOD_ over a h elution period with increasing acetonitrile concentrations from to in water and formic acid at . ions were selected automatically for the collision cell using the analyst _PROTEIN_ software package _METHOD_ . ions were selected for collision induced distortion from an initial time of flight scan if they occurred between and atomic _METHOD_ units _METHOD_ had a charge series of or and had an ion count > cps . cid spectra were accumulated for s. the resulting _METHOD_ derived spectra were analyzed against an in house database comprising the institute for genomic research and national center for biotechnology information arabidopsis proteins sets compiled with one allowable tryptic missed cleavage . searches were conducted at _LOCATION_ tolerances of for _METHOD_ and for _METHOD_ and only the top cid match for each spectrum was accepted . the pro id matching procedure initially uses the calculated parent _METHOD_ of an ion to screen the database for theoretical peptides that fall within the _METHOD_ _LOCATION_ tolerance range . a peak list composed of of the most intense _METHOD_ from each half of the experimentally derived cid is used to match theoretical y and b series from the candidate peptides at the specified _METHOD_ _METHOD_ tolerance and scored . the same procedure also is undertaken for a complementary list derived from the experimental _METHOD_ and the calculated parent _METHOD_ . the resulting score for each cid is a combination of the number of y and b ions matched and the statistical distance this match is from a random match . the final confidence score is applied to the matched protein and is represented as a percentage value . using this procedure five independent mitochondrial isolations were digested and analyzed by lc _METHOD_ . proteins qualified for inclusion in the experimental set if the protein matched with a pro id confidence score of or greater and if the protein was identified in two or more experiments . blue native _PROTEIN_ analysis was performed according to published methods . protein spots from blue native _PROTEIN_ gels were excised and prepared for analysis by _METHOD_ according to citation . the _METHOD_ collision data derived from samples were analyzed with the pro id _METHOD_ analysis component of analyst _PROTEIN_ as described above . where resulting matches were < manual interpretations of the spectra were undertaken to confirm the protein match . these new gel matches are incorporated in the supplemental data online along with published identifications from gel based experiments . the arabidopsis mitochondrial protein database was constructed using the mysql database server and interfaces through custom built world wide web pages using hypertext preprocessor _METHOD_ version . the nonredundant _LOCATION_ protein data set used to populate the database was obtained from tigr as the file _PROTEIN_ release comprising nonredundant proteins . arabidopsis mitochondrial and chloroplast open reading frame sets were obtained from ncbi . the ampdb contains a total of proteins . primary attributes for proteins were produced using in house scripts calculating molecular weight grand average of hydropathicity and isoelectric point . estimations of est numbers for each chromosomal locus were obtained from the arabidopsis information resource . functional assignments were made using annotations associated with each protein entry and through homology based comparisons with the swiss prot protein database using basic local alignment search tool . predictions of subcellular localization were undertaken using targetp version with no cut off set and the plant option selected predotar version mitoprot ii version with a discriminant function for mitochondrial proteins cutoff between and ipsort with the plant protein option selected and subloc with eukaryotic selected . targeting predictions were performed on the tigr set described above . arabidopsis mitochondrial sequence putative orthologs to yeast human and rickettsia prowazekii proteins were determined using the program inparanoid for two way best pair wise matches . the yeast mitochondrial protein set was obtained from citation and comprises proteins the human mitochondrial protein set was obtained as supplementary material from work described by citation and the r. prowazekii madrid e protein set comprising entries was downloaded from the comprehensive microbial resource at tigr . this database will be made publicly available at http //www.mitoz.bcs.uwa.edu.au . upon request materials integral to the findings presented in this publication will be made available in a timely manner to all investigators on similar _METHOD_ for noncommercial research purposes . to obtain materials please contact a. harvey millar hmillar { at } cyllene.uwa.edu.au .
