eukaryotes regulate the effective dosage of their ribosomal rna genes _PROTEIN_ fewer than half of the genes at any one time . likewise genetic hybrids displaying nucleolar dominance transcribe rrna genes inherited from one parent but silence the other parental set . we show that rrna gene dosage control and nucleolar dominance utilize a common mechanism . central to the mechanism is an epigenetic switch in which concerted changes in promoter cytosine methylation density and specific histone modifications dictate the on and off states of the rrna genes . a key component of the off switch is _PROTEIN_ a plant specific histone deacetylase that localizes to the nucleolus and is required for lysine deacetylation and subsequent lysine methylation . collectively the data support a model in which cytosine methylation and histone deacetylation are each upstream of one another in a self reinforcing repression cycle .
to test the hypothesis that subsets of rrna gene promoters differ in methylcytosine content possibly correlated with alternative transcriptional states the positions of methylated cytosines were mapped in a. thaliana rrna gene promoters using bisulfite mediated dna sequencing citation . bisulfite catalyzes the conversion of cytosine to uracil a reaction that is blocked if the cytosine is methylated . sequence analysis of independent a. thaliana rrna gene promoter clones amplified by pcr following bisulfite treatment of purified genomic dna revealed that most promoters were extensively methylated citation in all cytosine contexts . a less abundant class of promoters was sparsely methylated overall and completely unmethylated in the region previously defined as the minimal promoter citation . to ascertain whether rrna genes with hypermethylated or hypomethylated promoters are organized in functionally distinct chromatin environments chromatin immunoprecipitation _PROTEIN_ using antibodies recognizing specific histone modifications or pol i was followed by treatment with mcrbc . only dna that is methylated at two or more cytosines is digested by mcrbc citation . pcr was then used to amplify the rrna gene promoter region . a pcr product is obtained only if the promoter template dna is not chopped up by mcrbc . our shorthand notation for this assay is thus _PROTEIN_ chop pcr . a. thaliana rrna gene promoter dna is immunoprecipitated using antibodies specific for histone trimethylated on lysine a known epigenetic mark of transcriptionally active protein coding genes citation . treatment of trimethyl immunoprecipitated dna with mcrbc prior to pcr amplification had no significant effect on the abundance of the pcr product indicating that trimethyl associated promoters are hypomethylated . ribosomal rna gene promoter dna is also immunoprecipitated by antibodies specific for dimethyl a known epigenetic mark of transcriptionally inactive heterochromatin . mcrbc treatment eliminated the ability to amplify rrna gene promoters in chromatin precipitated by the dimethyl specific antibodies indicating heavy dna methylation . _PROTEIN_ chop pcr was also carried out following immunoprecipitation with a pol i antibody . promoter dna of rrna genes associated with pol i was resistant to mcrbc cleavage indicating that the active genes are hypomethylated . collectively the data of citation show that rrna genes whose promoters are hypomethylated associate with trimethyl and pol i indicating that these are the active subset of rrna genes . by contrast promoters that are hypermethylated associate with dimethyl and are presumably silenced . to test the hypothesis that dimethyl is a mark of silenced rrna genes we exploited the _PROTEIN_ that one parental set of rrna genes is silenced in genetic hybrids that display nucleolar dominance . in a. suecica the allotetraploid hybrid of a. thaliana and a. arenosa citation the rrna genes inherited from a. thaliana are transcriptionally silenced whereas rrna genes derived from a. arenosa are transcribed citation and thus dominant . importantly the silencing of a. thaliana derived rrna genes in a. suecica is reversed by treatment with the dna methylation inhibitor aza deoxycytosine or the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin a _PROTEIN_ . transcription of the dominant a. arenosa rrna genes is also upregulated to fold by aza dc and _PROTEIN_ suggesting that the _METHOD_ responsible for silencing the a. thaliana derived rrna genes are also responsible for dosage control among the dominant set . determination of the histone modifications associated with silenced and dominant rrna genes in a. suecica was evaluated using _PROTEIN_ followed by dot blotting and hybridization to species specific probes corresponding to the kb intergenic spacers citation . in mock treated a. suecica only background amounts of the silenced a. thaliana rrna genes were precipitated with the antibody specific for trimethyl . instead the a. thaliana rrna genes associate with dimethyl . by contrast the dominant a. arenosa rrna genes associate with both trimethyl and dimethyl . these data confirm that dimethyl is an epigenetic mark of silenced rrna genes . the data further suggest that only some of the dominant a. arenosa rrna genes are active and associated with trimethyl whereas the remainder are presumably excess silenced and associated with dimethyl . consistent with these interpretations treatment of a. suecica with _PROTEIN_ or aza dc which derepress the underdominant a. thaliana derived rrna genes and upregulate the dominant a. arenosa genes caused the loss of dimethyl association and a switch to trimethyl association both for the a. thaliana and a. arenosa derived rrna genes . to verify that silenced rrna genes are marked by dimethyl whereas active rrna genes associate with trimethyl the two a. thaliana derived nors and the six a. arenosa derived nors of a. suecica citation were examined in interphase cells by a combination of _METHOD_ in situ hybridization and histone immunolocalization citation . as shown in citation two of the major heterochromatic loci enriched for dimethyl correspond to the two a. thaliana nors . other major dimethyl positive loci correspond to condensed pericentromeric heterochromatin which stains more intensely with dapi than does euchromatin . by contrast the antibody specific for trimethyl interacts with decondensed euchromatin interspersed throughout interphase _LOCATION_ with condensed heterochromatic domains appearing as dark holes . the silenced a. thaliana nors account for two of these dark holes . these data confirm and extend the _PROTEIN_ chop pcr and _PROTEIN_ dot blot results by showing that entire silenced nors spanning millions of base pairs are enriched for the heterochromatic mark dimethyl and are depleted for the euchromatic mark trimethyl . assuming that transcribed coding regions are nucleosomal we deduce that these rrna coding sequences associate with histones displaying the same modifications as the intergenic regions that were assayed by _PROTEIN_ . analysis of the a. arenosa like nors in a. suecica by fish and immunolocalization citation revealed that the dominant class of rrna genes colocalize with both dimethyl and trimethyl in agreement with the _PROTEIN_ data of citation . the a. arenosa derived nor fish signals were found to partially but not completely overlap dimethyl positive domains suggesting that portions of the nors are dimethyl positive heterochromatin . the a. arenosa nors also overlap the euchromatic regions enriched for trimethyl . collectively these data are consistent with the interpretation that only a subset of the dominant a. arenosa rrna genes is active decondensed and associated with trimethyl in a. suecica whereas the remaining excess inactive fraction is condensed heterochromatic and associated with dimethyl . we next tested whether or not promoter dna methylation was tightly correlated with dimethylation in nucleolar dominance in a. suecica as was the case in the pure species a. thaliana . to do so chromatin isolated from a. suecica was tested using the _PROTEIN_ chop pcr assay using primers that specifically amplify either the a. thaliana or the a. arenosa derived rrna gene promoters citation . in mock treated a. suecica a. thaliana rrna gene promoter dna was not amplified from the chromatin immunoprecipitated with antibodies against trimethyl but was enriched within the chromatin immunoprecipitated with antibodies against dimethyl consistent with all previous results . importantly the a. thaliana rrna gene promoter region could not be amplified by pcr if the chromatin immunoprecipitated with antibodies against dimethyl was first treated with mcrbc . these data indicate that the a. thaliana rrna genes in a. suecica are hypermethylated and are exclusively associated with dimethyl . by contrast the dominant a. arenosa rrna genes within mock treated a. suecica were readily amplified using chromatin immunoprecipitated with antibodies recognizing either trimethyl or dimethyl also consistent with all previous results . those promoters associated with trimethyl were resistant to mcrbc indicating that they are hypomethylated but those associated with dimethyl were heavily methylated such that mcrbc digestion precluded subsequent pcr amplification . treatment of a. suecica with aza dc or _PROTEIN_ to derepress the silenced a. thaliana rrna genes and upregulate the dominant a. arenosa rrna genes caused a. thaliana rrna genes to switch from exclusive dimethyl association and heavy promoter dna methylation to an association with trimethyl and loss of promoter methylation . likewise aza dc or _PROTEIN_ treatment caused the dominant a. arenosa rrna genes to be found exclusively associated with trimethyl and to be demethylated in their promoter regions . loss of promoter methylation upon treatment with the cytosine methylation inhibitor aza dc is expected but promoter demethylation by a histone deacetylase inhibitor _PROTEIN_ is more surprising though not unprecedented citation . the concerted switch in both dna and histone methylation suggests that these epigenetic marks are interdependent and integral to rrna gene silencing . trichostatin a induced derepression of silenced rrna genes in a. suecica indicates that one or more of the predicted histone deacetylases in arabidopsis is required in the silencing mechanism . a systematic attempt to knock down histone deacetylase activities in a. suecica using rna interference identified _PROTEIN_ a member of a histone deacetylase gene family first identified in maize _PROTEIN_ and unique to plants citation as a gene required for nucleolar dominance citation . rnai mediated degradation of _PROTEIN_ mrna was accomplished by _PROTEIN_ a transgene that encodes double stranded _PROTEIN_ rna citation . rt pcr revealed reduced _PROTEIN_ mrna levels in all _PROTEIN_ rnai plants relative to nontransgenic control plants . _PROTEIN_ rnai plants were vigorous and displayed no visible phenotypes . upon examining nucleolar dominance using the nuclease protection assay a. thaliana rrna gene transcripts were detected only in trace amounts whereas a. arenosa transcripts were abundant in nontransgenic a. suecica . treatment of a. suecica with _PROTEIN_ derepressed the silenced a. thaliana derived rrna genes and upregulated a. arenosa genes to fold consistent with previous results . importantly in all _PROTEIN_ rnai lines the underdominant a. thaliana rrna genes were derepressed and the degree of derepression was consistent with the extent to which _PROTEIN_ mrna levels were reduced . we conclude that _PROTEIN_ activity is required for rrna gene silencing in nucleolar dominance . the involvement of _PROTEIN_ in the concerted promoter dna methylation/histone methylation switch was tested by comparing wild type and _PROTEIN_ rnai plants using _PROTEIN_ dot blot and _PROTEIN_ chop pcr assays citation . in _PROTEIN_ rnai plants the a. thaliana rrna genes switch from an association with dimethyl to and association with trimethyl accompanied by a loss of promoter dna methylation . loss of dimethylation in _PROTEIN_ rnai plants is also accompanied by acetylation . these data indicate that methylation and acetylation are mutually exclusive and that _PROTEIN_ is required for deacetylation either directly or indirectly . the subcellular location of _PROTEIN_ was determined by transfecting a plasmid encoding a _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ fusion protein into onion epidermal cells citation . a control vector plasmid that _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ alone resulted in _METHOD_ throughout transformed cells _LOCATION_ with the brightest signal corresponding to the _LOCATION_ citation . by contrast _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ transformed cells showed two adjacent spots of _METHOD_ citation corresponding to two nucleoli per _LOCATION_ as shown conclusively using differential interference contrast microscopy citation . the nucleolar localization of _PROTEIN_ suggests that this histone deacetylase may act directly on rrna gene chromatin .
for immunoprecipitation a. thaliana and a. suecica seeds were sown on sterile semisolid _METHOD_ medium sucrose supplemented with aza dc or _PROTEIN_ . plates were incubated in a growth chamber under continuous light for days at which time seedlings were harvested . plants for cytogenetic examinations were grown in a greenhouse . bisulfite treatment was performed according to the jacobsen protocol starting with of genomic dna digested with saci drai ecori ecorv and stui which do not cut the rrna gene promoter region . promoter regions were amplified using the primers accgggtccgaggatt and _PROTEIN_ . pcr conditions were min cycles of s s s min . pcr products from three independent reactions were pooled and cloned into a topo ta plasmid . independent clones were sequenced using an _PROTEIN_ sequencer and big dye terminator reagents _METHOD_ . _PROTEIN_ was performed according to published methods citation using seedlings crosslinked in formaldehyde . _LOCATION_ were subjected to four cycles of sonication s each using a branson sonifier . soluble chromatin was subjected to _PROTEIN_ using anti histone dimethyl anti histone trimethyl anti histone acetyl or anti pol i antibodies . the pol i antibodies were raised in rabbits against amino acids of a. thaliana _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ in e. coli . chromatin antibody complexes collected on protein a agarose beads were washed extensively before eluting with _PROTEIN_ m . dna protein crosslinks were reversed at overnight . purified dna was precipitated with ethanol and resuspended in te . immunoprecipitated chromatin assayed by dot blot was applied to genescreen plus _LOCATION_ . filters were hybridized to an nsii fragment of intergenic spacer clone pcaigs for a. arenosa rrna genes or an ecor i kpni fragment of a. thaliana intergenic spacer clone _PROTEIN_ citation . for _PROTEIN_ chop pcr of the immunoprecipitated dna was digested with units of mcrbc in reaction buffer _PROTEIN_ at for hr . ten percent of the mcrbc digestion reaction was then amplified by cycles of pcr using the same promoter primers and pcr conditions used for bisulfite sequencing . all _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ chop pcr experiments were repeated at least three times yielding highly reproducible results . rna isolation and nuclease protection were as described citation except that radioactive end labeled oligonucleotides were used as probes in citation . the a. thaliana probe was gggttccccacggactgcccagactccctcaacacccacccccctatatagctgcc the a. arenosa probe was ggaaccgagtagggaggtaccctcggtctgcccagacttcaccaacacccaccccctatatagcttttt . following initial denaturation at min probe rna hybridization occurred overnight at . probe rna hybrids were subjected to nuclease digestion at for min . resulting digestion products were resolved on a urea polyacrylamide sequencing gel dried onto filter paper and exposed to x ray film . immunolocalization in paraformaldehyde fixed root tip cells was according to published methods citation . primary antibodies were diluted in _PROTEIN_ bsa . secondary antibodies were conjugated to . dna was counterstained with dapi in citifluor antifade buffer . _METHOD_ microscopy images were obtained using a zeiss axiocam digital camera . following histone immunodetection _METHOD_ in situ hybridization was performed using a. thaliana or a. arenosa specific intergenic spacer probes labeled with digoxygenin dutp as described citation . a . suecica plants were transformed with the _PROTEIN_ rnai vector by using the floral dip method as _PROTEIN_ for a. suecica citation . rt pcr was carried out as described citation using primers tctcaaccttgattcttagcc and _PROTEIN_ which amplify a region of _PROTEIN_ not present in the transgene . pcr detection of pfk used the primers gccacgaaaaccaaacagac and ccggaatttcgatcaatcct . pcr reaction conditions were min cycles of s s s min . the _PROTEIN_ coding region amplified by pcr using pfu polymerase and primers gccgagctctcatggagttctggggaattg and gccggtacctcacttggcagcagcg was cloned as a saci kpni fragment to engineer a _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ fusion _PROTEIN_ from the promoter . ten _METHOD_ of plasmid was precipitated onto mg tungsten particles by addition of of m cacl and of mm spermidine . coated particles were collected by centrifugation washed with each ethanol and ethanol and resuspended in of ethanol . ten microliters was dried onto a macrocarrier disk and bombarded into an cm cube of onion bulb using a bio rad biolistic particle delivery system _PROTEIN_ . bombarded tissue was incubated in the dark for hr and imaged using a zeiss m bio microscope equipped with a zeiss axiocam digital camera and a nikon eclipse _METHOD_ microscope with a q imaging retiga ex digital camera .
