directional cell expansion in interphase and _LOCATION_ and cell division in m phase are mediated by four microtubule arrays three of which are unique to plants the interphase array the preprophase band and the phragmoplast . the plant microtubule associated protein has been identified as a key structural component in these arrays citation . the arabidopsis genome has nine genes and here we show that one locates only to the mitotic arrays and is essential for cytokinesis . the arabidopsis pleiade alleles are single recessive mutations and we show that these mutations are in the gene . moreover these mutations cause c terminal truncations that abolish microtubule binding . in the ple mutants the anaphase spindle is normal and the cytokinetic phragmoplast can form but is distorted not only is it wider but the midline the region where oppositely oriented microtubules overlap is unusually expanded . here we present data that demonstrate an essential role for in cytokinesis in plant cells .
there are nine arabidopsis genes and a divergent member of this family is citation . we raised an antiserum specific for and used it together with anti tubulin to double stain arabidopsis cells throughout the cell cycle citation . the results show that does not locate to the interphase cortical array . during cell division anti stains the preprophase band . no staining of microtubules in the prophase metaphase or early anaphase spindles was observed although cytoplasmic staining was evident and suggested that the protein is present at these stages . binding of to the microtubules during cell division reappears in the region of overlap between the half spindles in _PROTEIN_ anaphase after chromosome separation and persists in the cytokinetic phragmoplast at the midline where the plus ends of microtubules overlap and where the cell plate _METHOD_ citation . here we show that is synonymous with _PROTEIN_ . the arabidopsis pleiade mutant alleles were isolated in genetic screens for defects in root morphogenesis citation . the ple alleles are recessive and each has a short irregular expanded root phenotype . these phenotypes are orchestrated by enlarged multinucleated cells with incomplete crosswalls indicating that the defect is in cytokinesis . cells in the ple mutants may accumulate up to _LOCATION_ indicating that five rounds of division have taken place and that karyokinesis is complete but cytokinesis is incomplete . all root tissues are affected but some multinucleated cells are present in the embryonic roots and hypocotyls of mature embryos citation . a consequence of the enlarged multinucleated cells is irregular cell expansion but this must be indirect because not all the multinucleated cells have lost their ability to expand anisotropically for example epidermal cells are still able to differentiate into root hair cells . we have positionally cloned _PROTEIN_ by mapping the gene to an interval of kb on the bacterial artificial chromosome at the bottom of chromosome citation . we used the closest molecular markers to identify seven overlapping binary cosmid clones for complementation analyses of ple and ple . only the kb genomic fragment of one clone citation reverted the ple phenotypes in of independent transformants . if one takes into consideration the overlaps from the noncomplementing cosmids the _PROTEIN_ locus could be further narrowed to kb and this included three genes _GENE_ and citation . by using a combination of heteroduplex analysis and sequencing we confirmed the _GENE_ open reading frame . _PROTEIN_ has introns citation the transcriptional start site was determined by primer extension pcr and this identified the utr intron which was also absent from the full length cdna clone . the predicted protein has a size of amino acids and a molecular weight of kda and is synonymous with . a base substitution at the splice site of the second intron of ple leads to inefficient mrna processing . rt pcr analyses and sequencing revealed that the majority of transcript is unspliced and encodes a protein of amino acids citation . the mutations of ple and ple introduce stop codons and infer truncated proteins of and amino acids respectively citation . these data demonstrate the isolation of the first mutants with a distinct cytokinesis defect . interestingly is _PROTEIN_ in all organs analyzed but the cytokinesis defect is only observed in root tissues citation indicating that there is likely to be redundancy in function between members of the gene family in different plant organs . the _PROTEIN_ that _PROTEIN_ is the gene and mutations in this gene affect cytokinesis prompted us to analyze the phragmoplast microtubule arrays in the ple mutants . by using anti tubulin _METHOD_ and crossing ple and ple with an in vivo microtubule marker line harboring _METHOD_ citation we observed all four microtubule arrays in ple cells . closer examination of the phragmoplasts in these mutants revealed significant size differences shown by the _METHOD_ in citation . whereas in the wild type the midline of the phragmoplast is very narrow in the ple mutants it is about three times broader in ple and in ple citation when visualized with the _METHOD_ marker . similar results were obtained with anti tubulin _METHOD_ i.e. from in the wild type to and in ple and ple respectively . moreover the total width of the phragmoplast was also increased in the ple mutants i.e. from in the wild type to and in ple and ple respectively . from these data together with the complete karyokinesis and the incomplete cytokinesis defects in the ple mutants we conclude that is essential for phragmoplast function . the three ple mutations truncate the protein at the c terminus . the shortest truncation predicts a protein of aa . we generated the equivalent recombinant protein fragment and tested its ability to bind microtubules compared to the full length recombinant protein . the data show citation that the truncated protein does not cosediment with polymerized microtubules upon centrifugation but that the full length protein does . these data suggest that the loss of function in the ple mutants is due to a lack of microtubule binding . in this paper we have shown that only locates to m phase microtubule arrays and in particular to the midzones of the anaphase spindle and the cytokinetic phragmoplast . the ple mutants are defective in cytokinesis because the phragmoplast is distorted but karyokinesis is unaffected . the _PROTEIN_ gene was cloned and found to encode . moreover recombinant protein that mimics the predicted ple mutation i.e. a truncated protein of residues can not bind microtubules indicating that the defect in cytokinesis is caused by the loss of microtubule binding in the ple mutants . this localization of is similar to the previously characterized tobacco citation with the exception that does not localize to the interphase cortical array . both tobacco and carrot proteins have been shown to bind and bundle microtubules in vitro citation and their localization to the interphase array has suggested an involvement in directional cell expansion as well as in the organization of antiparallel microtubules in the midzones of the mitotic spindle and cytokinetic phragmoplast citation . the localization of suggests a role in cell division but not in cell expansion . it is interesting to note that anti stains the metaphase spindle faintly but clear microtubule staining is only apparent in _PROTEIN_ anaphase . this may explain why karyokinesis is not affected in the ple mutants . although present may not be active in the metaphase spindle and is only activated by an as yet unknown process after the chromosomes are separated in _PROTEIN_ anaphase when the phragmoplast begins to form . these data would place as a functional equivalent of the divergent family citation of midzone maps that includes mammalian _PROTEIN_ citation and yeast _PROTEIN_ citation . the phragmoplast is composed of antiparallel microtubules that meet and overlap at the midline . vesicles transported along these microtubules to the midline carry wall materials for the cell plate . the cell plate grows centrifugally outwards until it meets the parental cell walls where it fuses . microtubules remain at the boundary of the cell plate as it grows and are continually turning over . at the midline the new tubulin subunits are incorporated at the plus ends of overlapping microtubules citation . anti tubulin and the _METHOD_ do not usually stain this midline giving the appearance of a clear zone . locates to the midline or clear zone . curiously in the phragmoplasts of the ple mutants the clear zones are wider as are the phragmoplasts _METHOD_ . this emphasizes the importance of for the integrity of the phragmoplast in cytokinesis in plants . in cells underexpressing _PROTEIN_ the human member of the midzone map family the microtubules at the midzone of the anaphase spindle were not interdigitated the two half spindles separated and the midbody was not formed citation . recent data from live cell microscopy of _PROTEIN_ deleted cells have demonstrated that _PROTEIN_ is essential for the slow phase of spindle elongation in anaphase b citation . by comparison the anaphase spindle appears normal and the cytokinetic apparatus in plants is not abolished in the ple mutants but is distorted with a wider clear zone and a wider phragmoplast . this distorted phragmoplast in the ple mutants could arise in either of two ways . first the absence of could have destabilized the region of overlap at the midline by abolishing crosslinked antiparallel microtubules and as a consequence the two halves of the phragmoplast may have drifted apart . however it is clear that the drift is even and does not disrupt the shape of the phragmoplast so the two halves must be held in place by another force . second may work in cooperation with other microtubule interacting proteins that promote the flux of tubulin through the plus ends . in the absence of the flux of tubulin through the plus ends _PROTEIN_ is increased allowing further polymerization and expansion of the clear zone . the increased overall width of the phragmoplast may result from increased microtubule sliding by plus end directed kinesins citation . in conclusion these data demonstrate that is essential for _PROTEIN_ the integrity of the overlapped microtubules in the phragmoplast and is essential for completing cell division in roots .
for raising the antiserum in mice a residue recombinant polypepetide corresponding to amino acids of the open reading frame was used as an immunogen . three mice were immunized and the serum from all three mice identified a single band of relative molecular weight kda on immunoblots of arabidopsis cell suspension culture total protein extracts . all three antisera gave identical staining patterns throughout the cell cycle . arabidopsis suspension culture cells were collected at the exponential growth phase and fixed with either paraformaldehyde as described citation or with methanol for min at followed by acetone for min at . they were then treated with the mixture of cell wall digestion enzymes supplemented with mm _METHOD_ leupeptin and pepstatin a for min . in the case of methanol/acetone fixation cells were rehydrated in _PROTEIN_ for min before treatment with cell wall digestion enzymes . the cells were settled onto poly l lysine coated coverslips and stained with rat monoclonal anti tubulin clone diluted and with anti diluted . anti mouse _PROTEIN_ conjugates preadsorbed with rat immunoglobulins and anti rat fitc conjugates preadsorbed with mouse immunoglobulins _PROTEIN_ were used as secondary antibodies . the staining was repeated four times for paraformaldehyde fixation and two times for methanol/acetone fixation . an average of of the cell population gave staining with anti . in the remaining cells no signal was observed with either anti tubulin or anti suggesting that these cells were not processed successfully for immunostaining . of the stained cells interphase cells and dividing cells were scored in the six independent experiments . the staining with anti was identical for all stained cells preprophase bands prophase and metaphase spindles ten early anaphase spindles _PROTEIN_ anaphase spindles and phragmoplasts . the specificity of the secondary antibodies was checked by application of anti mouse antibody to cells stained only with antibody and vice versa . the whole root of the ple mutants was scored compared to controls on vertical nutrient agar plates containing murashige and skoog salt mixture and sucrose in agar . the _LOCATION_ were stained with yo pro on fixed roots and analyzed with a confocal scanning laser microscope as described citation . microtubules were visualized in vivo with the microtubule marker _METHOD_ . the phragmoplast measurements were carried out on to day old seedlings via the microtubule _METHOD_ marker line and confirmed by immunolocalization with tubulin antibodies citation . in total wild type roots were analyzed and ple mutant root _METHOD_ were analyzed . genomic dna was isolated from seedlings by a modified ctab method citation . fine mapping was done with duplex analysis markers citation a rflp marker and caps markers on approximately plants of crosses between the columbia alleles ple and ple and the accession wassilewskija . the cosmid contig of the _PROTEIN_ locus was established by screening the genomic abi cosmid library with labeled pcr probes . transformation of wild type ple and ple was done via the floral dip method citation . complementing transformants were confirmed in the generation by cosegregation analysis . duplex analysis citation was used to screen for allele specific polymorphism at the _PROTEIN_ locus . sequencing was done on an abi prism system with bigdye terminator sequencing chemistry _METHOD_ . a full length cdna clone was isolated from the lambda library citation . the transcriptional start site was confirmed by a primer extension method . exon/intron borders and splicing defects were analyzed by rt pcr and sequencing . total rna was prepared with the rneasy plant mini kit or trizol and cdna was synthesized with moloney murine leukemia virus _PROTEIN_ i and oligo d primers . analysis of the splicing defect was done with primers and . for the primer extension experiments primer was used for cdna synthesis . the sequences of all primers are listed in table . full length and the truncated fragment corresponding to the _PROTEIN_ mutant protein were subcloned into ndei/xhoi sites of vector . the recombinant proteins containing tag on the n termini were _PROTEIN_ in e. coli strain rosetta and purified under denaturing conditions . the proteins were refolded by dialysis against mtsb buffer _PROTEIN_ . tubulin was isolated from _PROTEIN_ brain as described citation . tubulin and centrifuging full length and truncated _PROTEIN_ mutant protein at g for min at removed protein aggregates . microtubules were polymerized with taxol mixed in the appropriate samples with recombinant proteins incubated for min at and centrifuged at g for min . when the and the _PROTEIN_ mutant protein were not mixed with microtubules the mixture was supplemented with mtsb buffer containing taxol . the protein samples were separated on a one dimensional _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ gel . supplemental data are available with this article online at http //www.current .
