the pend protein is a dna binding protein in the inner envelope _LOCATION_ of the developing chloroplast . it consists of a short pre sequence an n terminal dna binding domain a central repeat domain and a c terminal transmembrane domain . pend homologs have been detected in various _METHOD_ including arabidopsis thaliana brassica napus medicago truncatula cucumber and cherry . monocot homologs have also been detected in barley and rice but sequence conservation was low in monocots . pend related sequences have not been detected in non flowering plants and algae . green _METHOD_ protein fusions consisting of the n terminal as well as full length pend homologs in a. thaliana and b. napus were targeted to chloroplasts and localized to nucleoids and chloroplast periphery respectively . immunoblot analysis suggested that crucifer homologs were present in chloroplasts probably as a dimer as in the case of pea . these results suggest that pend protein is present in _METHOD_ and the homologs in crucifers are functionally analogous to the pend protein in pea .
various homologs of pend protein were identified by a blast search of the database as of spring and the alignment was used to design primers for amplification of pend homologs . figure shows an alignment of such sequences from a more recent database including those from soybean medicago truncatula tomato rice and barley in addition to those from pea brassica napus and arabidopsis thaliana as well as additional sequences obtained in this study . the pea sequence that we previously deposited in the database contained a single nucleotide deletion at position which made the translation product longer . the correct protein sequence terminates at aa with _PROTEIN_ at its end . in addition the n terminus starts with consecutive methionines but the first met residue is not conserved in other homologs except soybean and therefore the second met is considered as the initiation codon in this alignment . the cbzip and transmembrane domains are conserved but the central region is highly variable . the central region of pea pend protein contains a nearly perfect sextuple repeat of residues but this repeat is poorly conserved in other homologs . the length of the central region is also variable from residues in brassica to residues in pea . based on this alignment pcr primers were designed and pcr amplification of pend sequence was attempted using genomic dna or cdna of various plant species . amplified fragments were analyzed by hybridization with authentic pend probes and then finally identified by sequencing . thus we isolated partial cdnas for pend homologs in cucumber and cherry . in addition two cdna clones were also obtained from a japanese cultivar of brassica napus . among them cdna encoded a protein similar to while cdna encoded a paralog of _PROTEIN_ . this is consistent with the _PROTEIN_ that the brassica genome is internally duplicated . in monocots partial dna sequences that encode the n terminal part of putative pend homologs were found . in a recent rice database we found a more complete genomic sequence encoding a pend homolog . the barley sequence in fig . is an assembly of two overlapping est sequences . pend homologs in monocots were conserved in the n terminal domain but the c terminal transmembrane domain was less conserved . however the position of the first and last introns was conserved in all plants for which genomic sequence was available . the positions of other introns was somewhat variable depending on the species . these results suggest that all these genes share a common origin . the phylogenetic relationship of these pend homologs as deduced by the neighbor joining method was not completely consistent with the known phylogeny of these plants maybe because partial sequences were used in tomato cherry and cucumber . soybean and barley sequences were not used in the phylogenetic analysis because these est sequences did not have the well conserved c terminal domain . the two lineages of brassica homologs may represent the a and c genomes . the two legumes pea and medicago truncatula were dissimilar in the n terminal sequence as well as in the central repeat region and this is reflected in the distant position of m. truncatula in the phylogenetic tree . other plants that we examined but in which we did not detect pend homologs were black pine cycas taiwaniana and cedrus deodara _METHOD_ psilotum nudum dryopteris maxima angiopteris formosum and botrichium virginianum atrichum undulatum physcomitrella patens and marchantia paleacea ulva pertusa enteromorpha prolifera and codium fragile . no homologous sequences were found in the genomic sequences of chlamydomonas reinhardtii and cyanidioschyzon merolae . southern hybridization using p. patens subsp . patens total genomic dna was performed prior to this study and some bands were detected at a low stringency . however a cloned dna was found to contain a part of the mitochondrial _PROTEIN_ gene having a perfect bp match with the cbzip probe . it is difficult to obtain definite results in lower land plants with such low stringency experiments . originally pend protein was isolated from the envelope _LOCATION_ of developing pea chloroplasts . we tested the targeting of pend proteins using _METHOD_ fusion constructs . first we tested localization of fusion proteins consisting of full length pend protein and _METHOD_ . we introduced such constructs of pea pend protein into pea leaves and found that the _METHOD_ _METHOD_ was localized to the envelope _LOCATION_ as evidenced by a circular _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ surrounding _LOCATION_ . however _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ mesophyll cells such as were seen _PROTEIN_ with shorter constructs were never observed . we detected _METHOD_ of full length pend _METHOD_ only in epidermal cells and at a very low frequency . we also introduced the same constructs into the moss protonemata by particle bombardment and consistently detected _METHOD_ _METHOD_ again localized as a _PROTEIN_ at the periphery of chloroplasts . these results verified the envelope localization of the pend protein . we also used the moss protonemata in the experiments with pend homologs because the moss system is useful in analyzing targeting of _METHOD_ fusion proteins especially for proteins such as full length pend protein which is not efficiently _PROTEIN_ in the pea or arabidopsis thaliana _METHOD_ . the _METHOD_ fusion proteins of homologs of a. thaliana and brassica napus were targeted to chloroplasts . within the chloroplasts the fusion proteins were localized to particulate structures located preferentially in the periphery of chloroplasts . we noted that the which is nearly identical to is not targeted to _LOCATION_ . in these experiments the _METHOD_ fusion protein was localized mostly to particulate structures possibly nucleoids but the chloroplasts were vaguely _METHOD_ suggesting that the fusion protein was also present in the chloroplast envelope . we then analyzed the localization of fusion proteins consisting of the n terminal part of pend proteins and _METHOD_ . none of the pend homologs contained a putative chloroplast targeting sequence as predicted by the targetp program at the n terminus . however all the constructs tested in fig . were indeed targeted to chloroplasts . we used the n terminal part consisting of the pre sequence and dna binding domain to further analyze chloroplast targeting and nucleoid binding . figure shows that the n terminal part alone was able to target _METHOD_ fusion proteins to the chloroplasts . in addition the _METHOD_ was localized to particulate structures that were possibly nucleoids . this point was verified by counter staining with dapi . these experiments were performed with either pea leaves or leaves of arabidopsis thaliana or brassica napus . in these experiments with short constructs we sometimes detected weak _METHOD_ of _LOCATION_ depending on the experiment . in experiments with transformation of protoplasts with these constructs more intense _METHOD_ was frequently found in the _LOCATION_ . in stably transformed plants pend _METHOD_ protein was localized almost exclusively in chloroplasts . these findings suggest that wounding might enhance targeting of the n terminal part of pend protein into the _LOCATION_ . it is possible that the pend protein is re targeted to the _LOCATION_ when it is cleaved within the chloroplasts . this is also consistent with the finding that the n terminal construct lacking the pre sequence was targeted to the _LOCATION_ . which is highly similar to brassica pend homolog was previously shown to be _PROTEIN_ in b. napus leaves . no clear evidence has been presented that the arabidopsis thaliana homolog is _PROTEIN_ although the pend homolog _GENE_ is described as _PROTEIN_ sequence in the tair database . to complement the results of _METHOD_ fusion targeting we applied immunodetection to the investigation of pend homologs in the chloroplasts of crucifers . we used seedlings of a. thaliana and b. napus as well as broccoli and cabbage although the genomic sequence of pend has not been identified in the latter two species . pend protein dimer was detected as a kda band in pea chloroplasts . the kda band represents pend protein monomer which might be present at a low level within the chloroplasts or produced during the analytical procedure . the size of pend homologs in crucifers is estimated to be smaller than that of pea pend ranging from to kda . a dimer at about kda was detected in b. napus whereas a band at about kda was detected in the two varieties of b. oleracea . here we used antibodies raised against the n terminal region of pea pend protein which is highly conserved in crucifers . only a faint band was detected in a. thaliana at this size . we repeated experiments with a. thaliana with different preparations of chloroplasts from different ages of leaves . a kda band was detected with chloroplasts from day old leaves . pend monomer might possibly be detected in the immunoblot analysis but non specific reaction with abundant proteins interfered with detection of pend monomers . detection is also made difficult by the _PROTEIN_ that crucifer pend was being detected with antisera against pea pend . these results suggest that the pend homolog in crucifers is indeed _PROTEIN_ and the protein is localized to the chloroplasts as a dimer just as in the case of pea pend protein .
pend protein sequences were retrieved from the genbank database and aligned using the clustal x program . based on this alignment additional cdna sequences were obtained by pcr as described in results and these were added to the alignment as shown in fig . . in tomato medicago truncatula soybean and barley est sequences were used to identify putative pend sequences . est sequences were individually aligned using the profile alignment mode . from this alignment poorly conserved sites were removed by the getclu command with gap option of the _PROTEIN_ program . the resulting alignment was used to construct a neighbor joining tree using the phylip package with the protdist neighbor seqboot and consense commands . seedlings of pisum sativum were grown on moist vermiculite at under continuous light as described previously . seedlings of arabidopsis thaliana ecotype columbia were grown in soil at under continuous illumination by _METHOD_ lamps . seedlings of brassica napus b. oleracea var . italica and b. oleracea var . capitata were grown in a similar way . protonemata of the moss physcomitrella patens subsp . patens were grown as described previously and used for transformation . pteridophyte plants were obtained from the botanical gardens university of tokyo . dna of other plants was from the laboratory stock . dna was extracted from various plant tissues using a dneasy plant mini kit . pcr was performed with primers f _PROTEIN_ and r corresponding to the zipper and trans _LOCATION_ regions respectively using extaq polymerase under standard conditions . amplified dna was cloned into pbluescript sk and sequenced with big dye terminator version _METHOD_ . nucleotide sequences of pend homologs were deposited with ddbj as follows brassica napus b. napus pisum sativum cucumis sativus prunus yedoensis . plasmids containing part of the pend cdna fused to the _METHOD_ _METHOD_ gene were constructed using the vector _METHOD_ . in these constructs the promoter of cauliflower mosaic virus preceded the pend sequences and the nopaline synthase terminator was located downstream of the _METHOD_ sequence . these plasmids were introduced into either mature foliage leaves of day old pea seedlings rosette leaves of day old arabidopsis thaliana seedlings or leaves of day old brassica napus seedlings by particle bombardment using a particle delivery system model _PROTEIN_ . rupture disks for psi and gold particles with a diameter of were used . after h of further growth the epidermis together with a layer of mesophyll cells of the bombarded leaf was peeled off and examined under a _METHOD_ microscope with an ib filter cube . particle bombardment was also used to introduce plasmids into protonemal cells of the moss physcomitrella patens grown on agar plates . chloroplasts were isolated from leaves of arabidopsis thaliana brassica napus and b. oleracea by a standard method and solubilized in sample loading buffer for _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ . the lysates were electrophoresed by _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ using a gel containing a low concentration of bis acrylamide and then transferred to a pvdf _LOCATION_ as described previously . chloroplasts of pea were also analyzed as a control . pend related polypeptides were detected using antibodies raised against the n terminal domain of recombinant pea pend protein as the primary antibody . after reacting with alkaline phosphatase conjugated secondary antibody signals were finally detected by chemiluminescence using cdpstar as described previously .
