boron is essential in plants but often present at low concentrations in the environment . to investigate how plants survive under conditions of b limitation we conducted a transcriptome analysis and identified a member of the major intrinsic protein family as a gene upregulated in b deficient roots of arabidopsis thaliana . promoter _PROTEIN_ fusions indicated that is strongly upregulated in the root elongation zone and the root hair zone under b limitation and green _METHOD_ protein tagged proteins localized to the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ . _PROTEIN_ in xenopus laevis oocytes demonstrated that facilitated the transport of boric acid in addition to water . importantly two t dna insertion lines of displayed lower boric acid uptake into roots lower _METHOD_ production and increased sensitivity of root and shoot development to b deficiency . these results identify as a major _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ boric acid channel crucial for the b uptake required for plant growth and development under b limitation .
in the search for _PROTEIN_ plant responses to b deficiency we screened for genes upregulated in b deficient arabidopsis roots . plants were hydroponically grown for d in the presence of b and then transferred to nutrient solution supplied with or b and incubated for another d. these b deficient growth conditions slightly affected root elongation but did not induce more severe damage to the plants . total rna was isolated from the roots and subjected to microarray analysis using affymetrix genechips containing arabidopsis genes . twelve genes turned out to be upregulated greater than threefold under b deficiency . to verify the results from the microarray analysis mrna levels of these genes were quantified using rt mediated real time pcr on total rna obtained from two independent experiments . among the candidate genes only mrna levels of were repeatedly upregulated in b deficient roots . when normalized to those of elongation _PROTEIN_ the mrna levels of were or times higher under b deficient growth conditions than under adequate b supply . to investigate in more detail the regulation of a time course of mrna accumulation in roots was examined by rt mediated real time pcr analysis . when plants were grown at b for d and then transferred to medium with b mrna levels increased within several hours and peaked after h with a fold induction . resupply of b to plants starved for h _PROTEIN_ mrna levels within h. these results clearly demonstrated a b dependent regulation of mrna accumulation in arabidopsis roots . we then examined the cell type specific _PROTEIN_ of in the and generations of transgenic columbia plants _PROTEIN_ the _PROTEIN_ gene under the control of the promoter . in seven independent lines gus activity was consistently observed in roots and appeared much stronger in plants grown under low b supply compared with plants grown under high b supply . these results suggest that the regulation of transcript accumulation observed by the microarray and rt pcr analyses is exerted _PROTEIN_ at the level of transcription . gus activity in the primary root and in _PROTEIN_ roots was strongest in the elongation zone and _PROTEIN_ toward the root hair zone and the basal zone . in cross sections of the root hair zone and the elongation zone gus activity was observed at high levels in epidermal cortical and endodermal cells but weakly in stelar cells . in aboveground tissues gus activity was barely detectable both in vegetative and in reproductive growth stages . soybean the first identified member of the nip subfamily in plants is located at the peribacteroid _LOCATION_ of nitrogen fixing symbiosomes in root nodules . however subcellular localization of nips in nonlegumes has not yet been reported . to investigate the subcellular localization of green _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ alone or _METHOD_ fused either c terminally _METHOD_ or n terminally _METHOD_ to was _PROTEIN_ in arabidopsis protoplasts under the control of a cauliflower mosaic virus rna promoter . _METHOD_ alone stained the cytoplasm localized at the cell periphery around a large central _LOCATION_ . by contrast fusion to _METHOD_ confined _METHOD_ to a fine _PROTEIN_ at the extreme cell periphery indicating _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ localization of the protein . among all plant mips nips in particular have been shown to transport small uncharged molecules such as glycerol and urea in addition to water . in solution at physiological ph b _PROTEIN_ exists as boric acid a small uncharged molecule with a molecular radius of which is similar in size to urea . these considerations and the b dependent _PROTEIN_ led us to hypothesize that may function as a boric acid channel . to test this hypothesis we _PROTEIN_ in xenopus oocytes and first investigated the water transport function by an osmotic swelling assay . arabidopsis _PROTEIN_ was used as a control for an efficient water channel . when transferred from solution to a twofold diluted solution _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ oocytes showed a linear increase of the oocyte volume with time compared with noninjected oocytes which remained almost unchanged . by contrast _PROTEIN_ oocytes did not show a significant difference in the oocyte volume relative to noninjected oocytes after transfer to the twofold diluted solution . a greater increase in volume compared with noninjected oocytes was observed only when _PROTEIN_ oocytes were transferred to a fivefold diluted solution . these results showed that transports water but much less efficiently than _PROTEIN_ under our experimental conditions . subsequently boric acid transport was investigated by transferring oocytes from solution to an isotonic fivefold diluted solution supplemented with boric acid to _PROTEIN_ the osmolarity at mosmol/kg . it was presumed that the increase in oocyte volume corresponds to the water influx after the osmotic gradient generated by boric acid uptake . _PROTEIN_ oocytes showed significant swelling whereas noninjected oocytes shrunk slightly . importantly _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ oocytes also failed to show significant swelling under these conditions despite their high water transport capacity . this observation indicated that an endogenous boric acid uptake activity of oocytes is not sufficient to generate an osmotic gradient and subsequent swelling and that but not _PROTEIN_ transports boric acid under these conditions . to independently verify boric acid uptake activity of b accumulation in oocytes was measured directly . _PROTEIN_ oocytes accumulated fivefold to ninefold more b than noninjected oocytes when incubated at mm boric acid . consistent with the observation from the swelling assay _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ oocytes did not accumulate b relative to noninjected oocytes . these results established that transports boric acid more efficiently and water less efficiently than _PROTEIN_ in xenopus oocytes . it can not be excluded that transports other substrates in addition to boric acid and water . to investigate the function of in arabidopsis plants we obtained two independent mutant alleles for . a t dna insertion line in the col background was obtained from the salk institute and named . _PROTEIN_ a t dna insertion line in the wassilewskija background was obtained from the institut national de la recherche agronomique and named . homozygous lines for each t dna insertion were selected by pcr analysis and the positions of the t dna insertion sites were verified by sequencing . in the corresponding t dna insertion was localized in the first intron of the open reading frame whereas in the t dna was located in the predicted promoter region of bp upstream of the putative translation start site . accumulation of mrna in the insertion lines and the corresponding wild type plants was quantified by rt mediated real time pcr using primers for amplification of the first and second exons . the plants were grown on solidified nutrient medium containing b for d and then transferred to medium containing or b for h. the mrna levels in roots of mutant plants were restricted to and of those of the col plants at and b respectively . the mrna levels in roots of mutant plants were and of those of wild type ws plants at and b respectively . similar to the results obtained in the col plants grown hydroponically mrna levels were higher at b than at b with and fold inductions in the col and ws plants respectively . however in mutants the mrna level at b was reduced to fold of that at b suggesting that b dependent transcriptional regulation of was inhibited by the t dna insertion at bp upstream of the putative translation start site . shoot and root growth of the insertion lines was observed during vegetative growth on solidified nutrient medium containing various concentrations of b . consistent with the general observation in different plant species root growth of wild type arabidopsis plants was more sensitive to b deficiency than shoot growth . relative to their corresponding wild type plants root and shoot growth of and plants was reduced when b was supplied at concentrations of < or < respectively . at b both insertion lines showed a striking growth retardation including cessation of _PROTEIN_ root growth no development of _PROTEIN_ roots and no further expansion of rosette leaves . at b elongation of _PROTEIN_ roots was inhibited and the expansion of rosette leaves was retarded in both insertion lines . when b was supplied at concentrations of or higher both insertion lines grew similar to the corresponding wild type plants . notably the stronger growth depression in coincided with the lower level of transcripts relative to . these observations demonstrate a requirement of for shoot and root growth of arabidopsis plants under b deficient growth conditions . we subsequently analyzed the root phenotype of d old plants in more detail . root tips of were stunted and root hair density was increased dramatically when plants were grown under b deficiency whereas at adequate b supply these morphological differences disappeared . a quantitative determination of the longitudinal length of epidermis cells in the root hair zone revealed a substantial reduction of cell length in the insertion line when grown under b limitation . the cell length of the insertion line was reduced to or relative to that of wild type plants supplied with or b respectively . however the cell length was similar between the mutant and col plants at b . thus root growth inhibition in b deficient plants correlated closely with a reduction in cell elongation . it is widely known that plants are more sensitive to b limitation during reproductive growth than during vegetative growth and marked seed yield reductions have been reported under b deficiency without other _METHOD_ being _PROTEIN_ during vegetative growth . to investigate the effect of b limitation on reproductive growth plants were grown hydroponically under long day conditions and supplied with various concentrations of b . at b rosette leaves were small misshaped and wrinkled and inflorescences did not develop properly in plants . short internodes and a bushy appearance were observed in plants at b and in plants at b . the development of flowers and siliques was inhibited in and plants when b was supplied at and or lower respectively . however plants of both insertion lines returned to generative growth and set seeds at the same age as wild type plants when b was supplied at or higher . these observations demonstrate that is required for proper reproductive development even under moderate b limitation . the slight differences in the sensitivity to various b levels between the two mutant alleles coincided with their _PROTEIN_ levels and might additionally be attributable to the different sensitivity of the two ecotypes to b limitation . to address the physiological function of in b transport b concentrations in roots and shoots of the insertion lines were compared with those of wild type plants . for this purpose plants were grown hydroponically under short day conditions for d with supply of or b . at b roots and shoots of and plants had strongly reduced b concentrations whereas at b insertion lines accumulated similar amounts of b in their root and shoot tissues as the corresponding wild type plants . the b concentration in roots grown at b was not determined because of defective root growth . when grown at b b concentrations in roots and shoots of plants were and lower than those of ws plants respectively . these results showed that b concentrations in both roots and shoots were reduced in plants under limited but not under adequate b supply . we subsequently analyzed the time course of b uptake using stable isotopes of b . for this purpose and col wild type plants were grown under short day conditions in the presence of enriched b for d and then subjected to enriched b or enriched b for h. then the plants were exposed to enriched b and concentrations in roots and shoots were monitored during min . in plants pretreated with high b there was no significant difference in uptake into roots between and wild type plants . however in wild type plants pretreated with low b uptake into roots was times higher than in mutant plants within the first min and saturated after longer incubation times . in the same plants concentrations in shoots increased continuously during the min time course whereas they did not increase significantly in wild type plants pretreated with high b or in plants under any conditions . these results indicated that is required for efficient b uptake into roots and hence for b translocation to the shoot under b limitation .
col and ws ecotypes of arabidopsis thaliana were obtained from the _PROTEIN_ . information about the t dna mutant in the col ecotype was obtained from the signal database and the seeds were obtained from the _PROTEIN_ . information about the t dna mutant in the ws ecotype was obtained from the _PROTEIN_ and the seeds were obtained from the inra . the genotype of plants was determined by pcr using left and right border specific primers and gene specific primers . plant growth media were prepared according to citation and contained various concentrations of b . the growth conditions for vertically placed solidified medium as well as the method of hydroponic plant culture for the microarray experiment the phenotypic analysis of reproductive growth and the determination of b accumulation were described previously . for the time course analysis of mrna levels and the tracer experiment plants were grown on nylon mesh placed on solidified medium and then transferred to hydroponic medium according to citation . plants were grown under short day conditions for the time course analysis of mrna levels the determination of b accumulation and the tracer experiments and under long day conditions for other experiments . for the tracer experiment using stable isotopes of b the plants were supplied with enriched boric acid instead of boric acid of natural abundance . the plants were grown and supplied with enriched boric acid and then transferred to medium with enriched boric acid . preparation of samples and b isotope determination by inductively coupled _LOCATION_ _METHOD_ _METHOD_ were as described previously . arabidopsis genechips containing genes were analyzed according to the manufacturer 's protocol . reverse transcription mediated real time pcr analysis was performed as described by citation . the primers used in the pcr were caccgattttccctctcctgat and gcatgcagcgttaccgatta for and _PROTEIN_ and tgaagacacctccttgatgattt for elongation _PROTEIN_ . the kb region upstream of the initiation codon of was amplified by pcr from bac clone _PROTEIN_ using primers ggtggatccgaaagcaagcattccctg and gagccatggccaacgtttttttttttggt . using bamhi and ncoi the amplified fragment was subcloned into carrying gus and the terminator of the nopaline synthase gene . was generated from and carries a modified gus orf that contained six extra nucleotides _PROTEIN_ encoding met val at the end of the original gus orf to generate a ncoi site . the bamhi noti fragment of the resulting plasmid was subcloned into the bamhi i vector fragment of the binary vector ptkan . col plants were transformed via the agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated floral dip method with the promoter gus construct . gus staining and root cross sectioning were performed as described by citation . the sections were counterstained with ruthenium red for s. the _METHOD_ fusion was constructed as follows . the orf was amplified by pcr from the cdna clone obtained from the kazusa dna research institute using primers _PROTEIN_ and gaaaaccatggctcctcctcctccacgacgaaagctcctaaccggac . the amplified fragment was a tailed and cloned into the pgem t easy vector according to the manufacturer 's instructions . the dna sequence of the cloned pcr product was confirmed to be _LOCATION_ free . the xbai ncoi fragment carrying the orf was ligated with the ncoi ecori fragment of carrying _METHOD_ the terminator of the nopaline synthase gene and the xbai ecori vector fragment of . the resulting plasmid _METHOD_ carried a _METHOD_ fusion gene under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus rna promoter . in this construction process a linker encoding five amino acids was inserted between the and _METHOD_ orfs . the _METHOD_ fusion was constructed as follows . the orf was amplified by pcr from the cdna clone obtained from ceres using primers aaatgtacaagatggctccaccggaggctga and aactgcagacagcggccgcactcacttaacgacgaaagctc . the amplified fragment was a tailed and cloned into the pgem t easy vector . the dna sequence of the cloned pcr product was confirmed to be _LOCATION_ free . the orf was subcloned into at the bsrgi and noti recognition sites . the resulting plasmid _METHOD_ carried a _METHOD_ fusion gene under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus rna promoter . transformation of arabidopsis protoplasts was performed as described by citation . as a control vector carrying the _METHOD_ gene under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus rna promoter was used . protoplasts were analyzed d after transformation by confocal laser scanning microscopy . the orfs of and _PROTEIN_ were amplified by pcr from the cdna clone obtained from the kazusa dna research institute and a col cdna library respectively . the amplified fragment was a tailed and cloned into the pgem t easy vector . accuracy of the cloned pcr product was confirmed by dna sequencing . the orfs were subcloned into . capped crna was transcribed from the plasmids in vitro using the mmessage mmachine kit after linearization of the plasmid with mlui . xenopus oocytes were removed from adult female frogs by surgery manually dissected and defolliculated using mg/ml collagenase and mg/ml trypsin inhibitor . oocytes were injected with nl of crna _PROTEIN_ . oocytes were kept at for to d in . solution contained mm nacl mm kcl mm mm and mm hepes ph . swelling of oocytes was monitored with a leica binocular microscope equipped with a charge coupled device camera . photographs were taken from the cross sectional area of oocytes using metamorph spot software . _PROTEIN_ image was used to determine oocyte diameters . volumes of oocytes were calculated assuming spherical geometry . oocytes incubated in were transferred to five or two times diluted for water transport assays or to an isotonic solution containing five times diluted supplemented with boric acid to adjust the osmolarity to mosmol/kg for boric acid transport assays . oocytes were incubated in supplemented with mm boric acid . six oocytes were sampled as a batch and rinsed five times with ice cold . the oocytes were digested with concentrated nitric acid and b contents were determined using inductively coupled _LOCATION_ _METHOD_ _METHOD_ as described previously . roots from d old plants were stained with propidium iodide for min and imaged with a laser scanning confocal microscope using nm excitation and > nm detection . the longitudinal cell length of epidermal cells in the root hair zone was measured using imagej software . arabidopsis genome initiative locus identifiers for and _PROTEIN_ are _GENE_ and _GENE_ respectively .
