cold acclimation and over wintering by herbaceous plants are energetically expensive and are dependent on functional _LOCATION_ metabolism . to understand how the stroma and the lumen proteomes _PROTEIN_ to low temperatures we have taken a proteomic approach to identify proteins that changed in abundance in arabidopsis chloroplasts during cold shock and short and long term acclimation to . we show that cold shock results in minimal change in the _LOCATION_ proteomes while short term acclimation results in major changes in the stromal but few changes in the lumen proteome . long term acclimation results in modulation of the proteomes of both compartments with new proteins appearing in the lumen and further modulations in protein abundance occurring in the stroma . we identify differentially displayed proteins that participate in photosynthesis other _LOCATION_ metabolic functions hormone biosynthesis and stress sensing and signal transduction . these findings not only provide new insights into the cold response and acclimation of arabidopsis but also demonstrate the importance of studying changes in protein abundance within the relevant cellular compartment .
we have used two dimensional dige as a qualitative and quantitative proteomic tool to examine changes to the two soluble chloroplast proteomes the stroma and the lumen in a. thaliana leaves during cold shock as well as short and long term cold acclimation . plants were grown at warm temperatures and after days when fully mature source leaves had developed a subset of plants were sampled for controls and the remaining plants were shifted to a day/night temperature regime of . after day and days at source leaves that had completed expansion before transfer to low temperature were sampled to analyse acclimation in pre existing leaves . after days at source leaves that had developed at were sampled to investigate acclimation processes requiring modification during leaf development at . proteins isolated from these different treatments were labelled with cyanine dye or and after electrophoresis the images were overlaid for analysis . when the proteins present on all separate gel images from each set of experiments were considered the total stromal proteome could be resolved into protein spots . by virtue of the cydyes dige fluor minimal dyes are matched for charge and molecular weight so that the same protein labelled with any of these dyes migrates to the same position on a two dimensional gel offering good qualitative comparability between _METHOD_ and conventional staining technology . the total luminal proteome could similarly be resolved into protein spots and the gels showed a similar pattern to that published previously . to identify the proteins that change in abundance we used the biological variation analysis mode of the decyder software for gel to gel matching of the standard spot maps from each gel . the abundance of each protein spot on a gel was calculated as a ratio with its corresponding spot in the internal standard present in the same gel . the data were filtered to retain only those spots that showed statistically significant and greater than twofold changes in abundance . using these very strict criteria it was clear that no substantive changes occurred in the stromal proteome within the first day at . however over time the chloroplast stromal proteome became more responsive to change showing that of the protein spots had changed in abundance by day . this included that were more abundant that were less abundant and that were new to the proteome . following the development of new leaves at low temperature an additional of the proteins spots either increased or _PROTEIN_ in abundance and in addition to modulation of pre existing proteins two new protein spots appeared in the stromal samples . these changes in protein abundance in the stromal compartment could be resolved into three distinct clusters a group of proteins responding to cold shock that increased in abundance in leaves but returned to warm growth levels in leaves a second group responding to long term cold acclimation that increased in leaves and remained enriched in the stroma in leaves or only increased in abundance in the cold developed leaves and a third group that showed reduced abundance in the cold in both and leaves . a total of protein spots were found to change in abundance in the stromal proteome during cold acclimation . all of these protein spots were subjected to peptide _METHOD_ fingerprint analysis by _PROTEIN_ assisted laser desorption ionization _METHOD_ _METHOD_ _METHOD_ and for some additional post source decay analysis was used in order to identify the proteins . from these analyses we were able to identify of the protein spots examined . because some of these proteins were present in several spots different proteins were identified as changing in abundance in the chloroplast stroma during cold acclimation . careful bioinformatic analysis of these proteins revealed the presence of some non chloroplastic contaminants so to avoid confusion these proteins were not used in further classification . the remaining proteins that we considered to be part of the chloroplast stromal proteome and that showed significant changes in abundance in any of the samples during cold acclimation are shown in tables and afunctional classification according to mapman bin ps photosynthesis bn.d . not determined cn.a . not appearing . nad nicotinamide adenine tca tricarboxylic acid cycle . afunctional classification according to mapman bin ps photosynthesis . bnd not determined . cgene ambiguously identified for any of the five spots . stromal proteins that showed significant changes in abundance during cold acclimation were classified into different categories according to the mapman bin system . in a recent study using this classification system it was shown that proteins involved in the calvin cycle glycolysis oxidative pentose phosphate pathway and photorespiration represent approximately of the total stromal protein _METHOD_ . accordingly the dominant group of proteins changing in abundance in our analysis was nine different calvin cycle proteins . of these the large and small subunits of rubisco increased in abundance during cold acclimation although there was some variability with respect to which protein spot was examined . associated with these changes in rubisco a rubisco subunit binding protein _PROTEIN_ also increased in abundance while curiously rubisco activase _PROTEIN_ in abundance . of the remaining proteins five were involved in redox regulation and reactive oxygen scavenging including monodehydroascorbate reductase and two cys peroxiredoxins that were reduced in abundance and an m type thioredoxin . we also identified catalase as increasing in abundance in the stroma . at present it is not clear whether there is catalase activity in the _LOCATION_ and the _LOCATION_ localization for catalase is not certain . however chlorop shows a positive score for a chloroplast location for catalase and this is the only form of the three catalase sequences reported in arabidopsis that shows a chloroplast transit peptide with this programme . on the other hand using the c terminus for analysis _PROTEIN_ predictor targets all three catalase proteins to _LOCATION_ and targetp and predotar . do not recognize a chloroplast targeting sequence for the catalase protein so it is possible that this is a peroxisomal contaminant in our stromal preparation . we have nevertheless included catalase in table because chlorop suggests _LOCATION_ targeting for this particular catalase . two additional proteins with proposed roles in tolerance to oxidative stress glyoxalase i and glutathione s transferase _PROTEIN_ also increase in abundance in the cold and based on targetp analysis of the current gene model in the institute for genomic research database are targeted to the chloroplast . interestingly allene oxide cyclase which catalyses an early step in jasmonic acid metabolism was also found to accumulate strongly in the cold . another significant finding in the stroma was the pronounced accumulation of four subunits of the _PROTEIN_ synthase complex . additional cold responsive proteins include a fibrillin and other proteins grouped into organic acid starch amino acid and nucleotide metabolism and s assimilation with several other proteins not assigned to a bin according to this system . using the same strict criteria for determining the changes in protein abundance as we used for the stroma the lumen proteome was relatively insensitive to the change in temperature . no change was seen after day in the cold and only four lumen protein spots showed an increased abundance after days of cold treatment . in contrast to the stromal proteome the major changes to the lumen were observed in the leaves that had developed and expanded at where protein spots increased at least twofold in abundance . of these protein spots were successfully identified using the combination of peptide _METHOD_ fingerprint and post source decay analysis with _PROTEIN_ assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight _METHOD_ and represented a set of different proteins . determination of the protein identities revealed the presence of some stromal proteins with non lumenal location reflecting the fragile condition of the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ . the remaining protein spots that were considered to be part of the lumen proteome and that showed a minimum of twofold change in abundance during acclimation to the cold represented a set of eight different proteins . these were classified into two distinct categories using the mapman bin system the photosynthesis light reaction bin and the protein bin . in the first category our result revealed changed abundance for two of the three photosystem ii extrinsic proteins . both psbo and psbp were identified in several spots which is consistent with the appearance of these proteins in multiple protein spots on two dimensional gels . the protein displayed a complex pattern of changes in abundance during cold acclimation and it was found in four different spots and was one of only two proteins showing a change in the day lumen fraction . in the protein bin we found an _PROTEIN_ type immunophilin that previously only was predicted to be localized to the lumen but not identified until now . showed a _PROTEIN_ in abundance in the leaves as did and the psii assembly _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ . in contrast a cyclophilin type immunophilin increased in abundance in both and samples suggesting an important function for this protein in the lumen during cold acclimation . afunctional classification according to mapman bin ps photosynthesis . bn.a . not appearing .
arabidopsis thaliana l . seeds were germinated under controlled environmental conditions photons day/night temperature regime photoperiod h. after days when fully mature source leaves had developed the plants were shifted to a day/night temperature regime of . after and days at source leaves that had completed expansion before transfer to low temperature were used to investigate the acclimation response in pre existing leaves . after days at source leaves that had fully developed at were sampled to investigate acclimation processes requiring modification during leaf development . for chloroplast isolation and protein extraction approximately g of fully developed leaves were collected from and plants . this sampling and protein preparation were repeated from three independently grown batches of plants to give three independent biological replicates . the stroma and luminal content from arabidopsis chloroplasts were isolated according to citation optimized for arabidopsis according to citation and citation with the following minor change for the samples to allow better chloroplast integrity mm sorbitol was added to the preparation and wash media . we used the deoxycholate trichloracetic acid protocol to precipitate the proteins in the lumen and stroma fractions . the soluble protein fractions were prepared as described in citation and solubilized into the ettan dige compatible lysis buffer . protein quantification was according to bradford using bsa as a standard . stroma and lumen protein fractions were labelled using the spectrally different _METHOD_ cyanine and nhs ester dyes developed for two dimensional dige technology which react with the epsilon amino group of lysine residues in proteins . the pooled standard sample was prepared by pooling of protein from each of the samples prior to labelling . each cydyetm dige fluor minimal cyanine dye was reconstituted in anhydrous dimethylformamide and added to labelling reactions in a ratio of pmol cydye protein . the labelling mixture was incubated on ice in the dark for min and the reaction was quenched by addition of nmol of lysine followed by a min incubation on ice . an equal volume of sample buffer was added to each of the labelled protein samples and left on ice for min . for each gel three samples were mixed prior to isoelectric focusing on immobilinetm immobilised ph gradient strips . the appropriate volume of rehydration buffer was added to each mixed protein sample so that the final total volume was made up to the volume required for the appropriate rehydration of each ipg strip . to derive statistical data on changes because of cold acclimation in the chloroplast lumen and stroma proteomes the experimental design outlined in table was applied for each chloroplast compartment . the pooled standard was always labelled with and a total of gels were run to obtain statistical analysis of protein _PROTEIN_ variation in arabidopsis chloroplast stroma and lumen proteome during the first days of cold acclimation . all two dimensional gel separation was performed using standard two dimensional _PROTEIN_ equipment and plusonetm reagents . immobilinetm drystrips were rehydrated overnight in the presence of the protein sample overlaid with ml drystrip cover fluid in an immobilinetm drystrip re swelling tray . ief was carried out on an ipgphor ief system consisting of five phases of stepped voltages from to v with total focusing of v h . prior to the second dimension strips were equilibrated in buffer containing m urea mm tris hcl glycerol _PROTEIN_ reduced with dtt . the strips were subsequently alkylated with iodoacetamide . the strips were then loaded and run on homogenous pre cast ettan _PROTEIN_ gels . the strips were using the ettan _PROTEIN_ twelve apparatus . after _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ the gel was scanned using the typhoontm series variable mode imager . the images were scanned using a nm laser and an emission filter of nm band pass _PROTEIN_ the images using a nm laser and an emission filter of _PROTEIN_ and the images using a nm laser and a nm _PROTEIN_ emission filter . all the gels were scanned at resolution . image analysis was performed using the decyder software . the and images from a single gel were loaded into the software and all pooled standard/sample gel image pairs were processed by the decyder differential in gel analysis _PROTEIN_ software module to co detect and differently quantify the protein spots in the images . each of the individual and images was assigned an experimental condition control or during cold acclimation and all images were assigned as the standards . the decyder _PROTEIN_ co detection runs were defined and administered in an automated fashion using the decyder batch processor . by including the internal standard on each gel in the experiment together with the individual biological samples it is possible to measure the abundance of each protein spot on a gel relative to its corresponding spot in the internal standard present on the same gel . one way anova analysis was performed for every set of matched spots comparing the average and standard deviation for a given spot between the and groups to find differences that were significant above the experimental variation . the apparent _METHOD_ of the proteins that were detected on the two dimensional gels were determined with the decyder software using identified proteins of known _METHOD_ as a reference . following dige image analysis all gels were silver stained . the spots of interest already highlighted by the decyder software were manually excised from the gels and de stained . the in gel digests were performed using sequence grade modified trypsin . protein identification by peptide _METHOD_ fingerprint and post source decay _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ analysis was carried out using a voyager _PROTEIN_ de _METHOD_ spectrometer _METHOD_ and in part with an ultraflex tof tof _METHOD_ spectrometer . to analyse the in gel digested proteins by maldi tof _METHOD_ dried droplet preparations were applied using a ready made solution of the _PROTEIN_ alpha cyano hydroxycinnamic acid _PROTEIN_ . weak samples were concentrated and desalted using homemade stop and go extraction columns . spectral processing and the generation of _METHOD_ lists were carried out using the data explorer software from applied _METHOD_ and the flexanalysis software . database searches were carried out on an in house mascot server that was licensed to university by _PROTEIN_ using the current version of the ncbinr database . the databases were searched using peptide _METHOD_ fingerprint spectra and _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ spectra . if appropriate proteins were identified by sequence queries that included both types of data . the search parameters restricted the _LOCATION_ for peptide _METHOD_ to ppm and for _METHOD_ fragments to da and allowed up to two missed cleavage sites . the instrument type specified for _METHOD_ ion searches was maldi tof tof . by default the search parameters included fixed _PROTEIN_ of cysteine and variable oxidation of methionine .
