plant cell expansion is controlled by cellulose microfibrils in the wall with microtubules providing tracks for cellulose synthesizing enzymes . microtubules can be reoriented experimentally and are hypothesized to reorient cyclically in aerial organs but the mechanism is unclear . here arabidopsis hypocotyl microtubules wershee labelled with _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ or _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ to record long cycles of reorientation . this revealed microtubules undergoing previously unseen clockwise or counter clockwise rotations . existing models emphasize selective shrinkage and regrowth or the outcome of individual microtubule encounters to explain realignment . our higher order view emphasizes microtubule group behaviour over time . successive microtubules move in the same direction along self sustaining tracks . significantly the tracks _METHOD_ migrate always in the direction of the individual fast growing ends but twentyfold slower . spontaneous sorting of tracks into groups with common _PROTEIN_ generates a mosaic of domains . domains slowly migrate around the cell in skewed paths generating rotations whose progressive nature is interrupted when one domain is displaced by collision with another . rotary movements could explain how the angle of cellulose microfibrils can change from layer to layer in the polylamellate cell wall .
cortical microtubules form tracks for cellulose synthesizing complexes that move along the surface of the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ . the orientation of the cellulose microfibrils is then thought to constrain the direction of turgor driven cell expansion . in elongating root cells microtubules tend to be perpendicular to the growth axis but orientation is more variable in light grown aerial organs of a variety of species including arabidopsis hypocotyls . this greater angular dispersion observed in fixed cells of shoots has led to suggestions that such microtubules may be undergoing regular reorientation based on endogenous _METHOD_ . plant microtubules are highly dynamic and translocate by hybrid treadmilling in which the front end polymerizes more quickly than the back end depolymerises . at the whole cell level however little is known about how the entire array reorientates as it has not been possible to follow living cells for long periods nor importantly to determine microtubule _PROTEIN_ during reorientation . here arabidopsis seedlings were grown in chambers and placed under a spinning disk confocal microscope so that epidermal cells of hypocotyls could be followed for long periods as they elongate . seedlings _PROTEIN_ the microtubule plus end binding protein _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ were phenotypically indistinguishable from wild type and were used to follow _PROTEIN_ in microtubule reorientation . _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ _METHOD_ 'comets at the growing ends of microtubules enabling the _PROTEIN_ of individual microtubules to be followed by live cell imaging . however to monitor longer term behaviour day old seedlings _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ were used and successive min time lapse movies were collected every min for up to h. to ensure that the cortex was always sampled each time lapse movie was collected by z scanning a depth of at least with a temporal resolution of s allowing the _PROTEIN_ of microtubule growth to be discerned . only those frames including the upper epidermal face were projected to trace the trajectories of growing microtubules and build an overall pattern of the array . then successive time lapse movies were projected to form a movie showing how the microtubule array changes with time . microtubule alignment varies from cell to cell in light grown arabidopsis hypocotyls probably reflecting the slower growth in the light . movies of day old seedlings reveal these patterns are not static as the entire microtubule array undergoes striking reorientations in some cases seeming to rotate through . such movements which were consistently observed in all plants _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ were also observed in seedlings _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ and were therefore unrelated to labelling by _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ . similar reorientations were also observed whether the seedling was placed horizontally on the microscope stage or vertically on a rotated microscope . in these slow growing hypocotyls the pattern of re orientation differed between cells . for instance the time taken for the array to reorientate through varied from min whereas some arrays never underwent a complete cycle . reorientation could be clockwise and counter clockwise in adjacent cells even changing direction within a cell . our analysis confirmed that reorientation occurs in light grown cells that are still elongating . when cells stopped elongating microtubules came to rest in steeply pitched oblique and/or longitudinal patterns showing that rotation only occurred during growth . plus end growth rates were similar for both growing and non growing states . reorientation was insensitive to the anti actin drug latrunculin b despite the inhibition of cytoplasmic streaming . also the inhibitor of cellulose biosynthesis dichlobenzonitrile did not stop reorientation despite the cells becoming swollen suggesting that neither the deposition of cellulose nor the biophysical restraints _PROTEIN_ cell shape affect the reorientation of the microtubule array . in contrast reorientation was arrested by the microtubule stabilizing drug taxol consistent with hybrid treadmilling providing the motive force . taxol also deformed cell shape after several days of incubation suggesting that microtubule dynamics are required to _PROTEIN_ cell _PROTEIN_ . longer term time lapse movies revealed groups of microtubules displaying higher order behaviours that may account for the rotary movement . microtubules grow along common trajectories or tracks that often display strong _PROTEIN_ with a succession of plus end comets running in a single direction . electron microscopic studies showed cortical microtubules forming small groups of stabilized parallel microtubules but movies show bundles as dynamic self replenishing tracks in which _PROTEIN_ microtubules grow alongside one another in a telescopic manner . this suggests bundles or tracks are the basic unit of array behaviour . to quantify the _PROTEIN_ of tracks during microtubule reorientation individual frames of successive time lapse movies were analysed . this showed that tracks _METHOD_ migrate more slowly than the individual _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ comets moving along them but in the same plus end direction . moreover groups of tracks can be identified in which microtubules predominantly move over the cell surface in the same direction we named these groups 'polarized domains . _PROTEIN_ domains are constantly evolving structures as movement of domains through each other in opposite directions generates areas of mixed _PROTEIN_ . fig . shows a mosaic of several such domains migrating in different directions . importantly although individual microtubules grow in straight lines over the longer period the tracks _METHOD_ move in curved paths as illustrated by the progressive rotation of the arrows marked in the green and yellow sectors in fig . . hence although the array may seem to rotate like the hands of a clock around a fixed point the reorientation is actually the sum of the curved migratory paths of several domains at different parts of the cell surface . in fig . this curved migration of tracks is progressive giving the appearance of a smooth overall rotation . however such progressive rotation can be broken by 'jumps or discontinuities in the migratory path . jumps had been deduced from aldehyde fixed sunflower cells and our movies show they are introduced by the appearance onto the cell surface of discordant domains of differently angled tracks . fig . and b i l illustrate a discordant domain whose tracks move transversely from the right hand edge of the cell displacing the existing domain without going through an intermediate oblique stage . key features of discontinuous rearrangements are summarized in fig . first discordant domains invariably advance in the direction of their plus end comets second where one domain collides with the flank of another domain a curved collision site is formed that moves ahead of the incoming domain third instead of disappearing from the collision site the incoming domain slowly advances into the adjacent domain without changing orientation . one model for microtubule encounters suggests that of individual microtubules depolymerize when they collide with another at a steep angle . however our observations on the longer term outcome of interactions between tracks indicate that incoming discordant domains tend not to be lost but succeed in migrating into the adjacent area . calculations show that curved collision fronts move more slowly than individual microtubule plus ends whose movement remains fairly constant during reorientation . the slower movement of the collision front is more similar to the rate of minus end depolymerization than of plus end growth suggesting that the net movement of the array may be limited by microtubule depolymerization from the treadmilling minus end perhaps required for generating space into which other microtubules migrate . comigration of nucleation sites with the tracks would explain the successive flow of microtubules along a track and the persistence of collision fronts . the curvature of these collision fronts indicates that the incoming domain is likely to be exerting a pushing force . by aligning sequential frames in a kymograph it is possible to reconstruct a panoramic view of the cortical array as it migrates over the outer surface and show that their component domains are greater than the width of the cell . this indicates that domains are likely to move around the entire cell . in support of this in tilted cells we have observed comets moving around the radial walls and have also observed reorientations on the inner epidermal wall demonstrating that movement occurs on all faces of the cell . the paths in which tracks migrate are intriguing . fig . shows one _PROTEIN_ domain of tracks moving from right to left while another domain moves from left to right . depending on the direction of movement individual microtubules grow either into or away from adjacent tracks . bipolar tracks arise when microtubules join tracks of opposite _PROTEIN_ but when tracks of common _PROTEIN_ join the persistence of branch points shows that tracks do not inevitably merge to form giant bundles as might be expected if crossbridging were the only outcome of microtubule microtubule interaction . in summary the array can be visualized as a global system of interconnected tracks . within the tracks the microtubules are growing fast although the tracks _METHOD_ are moving slowly around the cell . different regions can move together as _PROTEIN_ domains or through each other or can collide to cause fronts that slowly resolve . in long term reconstructions these migratory movements can be observed to generate various undulatory patterns passing over the outer epidermal wall . the speed at which the array moves is similar to that of the rate of movement reported for cellulose synthase . as microtubules can guide the movement of cellulose synthases rotation of the microtubular template could account for a spectrum of cell wall patterns including consecutive wall layers with different orientations as reported for slow growing arabidopsis hypocotyls .
arabidopsis thaliana plants _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ and _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ have previously been described . drugs were added to day old seedlings . taxol latrunculin b and dichlorobenzonitrile were used at concentrations of nm and respectively . cold treated seeds were placed on filter paper soaked with sterile water . a chamber was constructed from a hollow square of double sided adhesive tape stuck to a large coverslip . seed and paper were then inserted into the chamber and covered with a gas permeable _LOCATION_ _PROTEIN_ . the chamber was then placed over a cm hole drilled into a plastic slide and the edges of the sandwich sealed with tape . chambers were placed vertically in the growth room for days then imaged using a visitech spinning disc confocal microscope fitted with a oil objective lens . alternatively slides were imaged on a bio rad confocal laser scanning microscope in a vertical position on a purpose built horizontal z axis microscope as previously described . _METHOD_ was excited using the nm line of an argon ion laser and emitted light filtered through a nm band pass filter . _METHOD_ was detected using a hamamatsu orca _LOCATION_ cooled ccd camera with binning set at s exposure time . four dimensional time lapse was collected and projected using the metamorph imaging system . a z stack of images was acquired every s for min and then repeated every min . long term movies of growing hypocotyls were projected using nd stack builder and aligned using stackreg plug ins of imagej . movies were edited using the brightness/contrast tool of imagej and the time stamper plug in _PROTEIN_ . microtubule growth rates and the _PROTEIN_ of domains were calculated from kymographs constructed using the re slice tool . cell area was calculated using cellfinder . note supplementary information is available on the nature cell biology website .
