heterogeneity of the mitochondrial proteome in plants underlies fundamental differences in the roles of these organelles in different tissues . we quantitatively compared the mitochondrial proteome isolated from a non photosynthetic cell culture model with more specialized mitochondria isolated from photosynthetic shoots . differences in intact mitochondrial respiratory rates with various substrates and activities of specific enzymes provided a backdrop of the functional variation between these mitochondrial populations . proteomics comparisons provided a deep insight into the different steady state abundances of specific mitochondrial proteins . combined these data showed the elevated level of the photorespiratory apparatus and its complex interplay with glycolate cysteine formate and one _PROTEIN_ metabolism as well as the _PROTEIN_ of selected parts of the tricarboxylic acid cycle alterations in amino acid metabolism focused on oxoglutarate generation and degradation of branched chain amino acids . comparisons with microarray analysis of these tissue types showed a positive mild correlation between mrna and mitochondrial protein abundance a tighter correlation for specific biochemical pathways but over concordance in direction between changes in protein and transcript abundance in the two tissues . overall these results indicated that the majority of the variation in the plant mitochondrial proteome occurred in the _PROTEIN_ highlighted the constitutive nature of the respiratory apparatus and showed the differences in substrate choice and/or availability during photosynthetic and non photosynthetic metabolism .
mitochondria were purified from arabidopsis cell culture and a hydroponic shoot culture based on density purification techniques using percoll . the respiratory characteristics of these organelles were compared using oxygen electrode measurements with different respiratory substrates . this analysis showed that the outer _LOCATION_ integrity of these isolated organelles exceeded and that both oxidized externally supplied nadh via the _LOCATION_ facing rotenone insensitive nadh dehydrogenases and used tricarboxylic acid cycle substrates succinate glutamate plus malate and malate plus pyruvate at similar rates on a protein basis . glutamate can be utilized by mitochondria due to a _PROTEIN_ located glutamate dehydrogenase generating nadh and making oxoglutarate that can enter the tricarboxylic acid cycle . in both cell culture and shoot derived mitochondria electron transport could be supported by glutamate as a sole substrate . in contrast shoot mitochondria could use glycine or formate as a respiratory substrate whereas for cell culture mitochondria these were very poor substrates with respiratory rates times lower than those in shoot mitochondria . comparison of the respiratory rates compares favorably with other published data on the rate of percoll purified mitochondria from cell culture and arabidopsis leaf . a detailed proteomics analysis was then planned to quantitatively compare the composition of these organelles . early analysis on gels revealed that despite the high quality of these preparations higher purity isolates were required to minimize minor contaminants in both preparations of _LOCATION_ and chloroplast proteins from being revealed as differences between the organelles . to alleviate this problem we adopted a free flow electrophoresis separation of mitochondria after percoll based purification to minimize this contamination . we have separately shown that this reduces peroxisomal and _LOCATION_ contamination of cell culture and shoot mitochondria by times . using western blots to immunodetect _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ _PROTEIN_ and _LOCATION_ _PROTEIN_ marker proteins we can show the reduction in contamination in the samples used in this study . in comparison the mitochondrial markers _PROTEIN_ are increased in abundance . with mitochondria prepared in this manner we performed a quantitative comparison of shoot and cell culture mitochondria using dige cydye technology . in this approach differential ief/sds _PROTEIN_ is performed using _METHOD_ dyes and separately bound to the two samples to be compared and a mixture of all samples in the experiment bound to as an internal standard common to all gels . a substantial set of changes are apparent by the colored overlay of the _METHOD_ images . using four independent cell culture and shoot mitochondrial isolates a set of four gels were run and analyzed using decyder quantitation software . protein spots that reproducibly changed in abundance between the two samples with p < were selected for further analysis . individual protein spots on paired preparative _METHOD_ stained gels were selected and analyzed using lc _METHOD_ . in total differentially abundant protein spots were analyzed and the identities of most of the proteins found are summarized in table ii . it was apparent that for some protein spots the staining intensity was different for fluorophore labeling and _METHOD_ staining . therefore apparent changes in abundance of several protein spots in fig . could not been analyzed because they could not be identified with confidence from the _METHOD_ stained gel also several analyzed proteins could not be identified by _METHOD_ _METHOD_ with confidence . in table ii identified proteins have been organized according to their putative function to provide sections on different functional classes of proteins . the protein spots were matched to the sequences of non redundant proteins that changed in abundance between cell culture and shoot mitochondria . although most of these were known mitochondrial proteins with defined functions there were nine proteins in this set that have not been reported previously in _METHOD_ _METHOD_ analysis of plant mitochondria . not all of these proteins were more abundant in shoots . five showed greater _PROTEIN_ in shoots and most likely were not identified before because of their low abundance in cell culture preparations whereas four were more abundant in cell culture so were most likely identified here because the dige analysis focused efforts on the identification of these low abundance protein spots . two subunits of glycine decarboxylase complex were identified by _METHOD_ for the first time t protein and h protein both were more than fold greater in abundance in shoot mitochondrial samples . new subunits of the branched chain amino acid catabolism pathway were also identified by _METHOD_ _METHOD_ the electron transfer flavoprotein ubiquinone oxidoreductase _PROTEIN_ that has previously been shown by _METHOD_ tagging experiments to be a mitochondrial protein and the subunit of the _PROTEIN_ that is predicted to be mitochondrial but not previously identified experimentally in mitochondria . we also identified a peptide deformylase that has been shown by _METHOD_ tagging experiments to be localized in mitochondria in arabidopsis . this enzyme is proposed to remove the n formyl group on modified initiator met residues found at the n terminus of proteins as the first step toward post translational met removal by a methionine aminopeptidase . this protein was nearly fold more abundant in cell culture than in shoot mitochondria . a protein annotated as an fad linked oxidase was also identified . this protein is closely related to _GENE_ that has been shown to be a glycolate dehydrogenase present in mitochondria according to _METHOD_ tagging experiments and _METHOD_ _METHOD_ . both proteins share sequence similarity and the same pfam domains for fad/fmn binding that are characteristic of glycolate oxidases . knock out of _GENE_ in arabidopsis shows that mitochondrial glycolate oxidation contributes to photorespiration . the increased abundance of _GENE_ in shoot mitochondria is consistent with these published data . an arginase was also found that is more than fold more abundant in shoot mitochondria . biochemical evidence for mitochondrial arginases in plants has been reported and a pea arginase has been localized to plant mitochondria . an additional member of the mitochondrial glycoprotein family of proteins was also found that appears to be fold more abundant in cell culture mitochondria . considering the breadth of function of the proteins identified there are a range of mitochondrial metabolic pathways that appear to be altered in shoots compared with cell culture in a manner consistent with the changing role of mitochondria in these tissues . the most obvious difference between the mitochondrial samples is the fold difference in abundance of most of the components of the gdc and the serine hydroxymethyltransferase in shoot mitochondria . these proteins can also be easily observed in fig . as the major changes in total abundance between the samples . the l protein of gdc is shared with a number of other enzyme complexes in plant mitochondria namely the pyruvate oxoglutarate and branched chain amino acid dehydrogenase complexes . two genes encode _METHOD_ of this protein in arabidopsis the former has been proposed as the isoform linked to gdc based on enhanced transcript abundance in photosynthetic tissues but in our analysis both _METHOD_ are probably more abundant proteins in the shoot compared with cell culture mitochondria . looking at the _METHOD_ of the other gdc components it is apparent that both p protein _METHOD_ are more abundant in shoot mitochondria whereas of the three h protein _METHOD_ redundant matches to two are more than fold higher in shoot mitochondria and specific matches to the third are more abundant in cell culture mitochondria . these changes in combination underlie the fold greater glycine dependent oxygen consumption in shoot mitochondria but provide a much more detailed insight into the protein _METHOD_ responsible for this specialized function . with mitochondrial respiration in the light significantly shifted to a role in photorespiration a number of studies have suggested that tricarboxylic acid cycle function is reduced in the light . but as the same tissues must respire at night in a glycine independent fashion the nature of the tricarboxylic acid cycle in shoot mitochondria is worthy of further investigation . in table ii a range of differences in abundance of tricarboxylic acid cycle components are apparent . two _METHOD_ of aconitase are found to differ in abundance acon is more abundant in shoot whereas acon is the dominant isoform in cell culture and is reduced in abundance in shoot . two very low abundance breakdown products of acon were identified and varied in abundance between shoot and cell culture but these protein spots represent only a very small percentage of the total acon on the gels . analysis of co _PROTEIN_ data using gene _PROTEIN_ angler shows that acon is closely co _PROTEIN_ not with other tricarboxylic acid cycle enzymes but with components of the fatty acid oxidation pathway _PROTEIN_ and enoyl coa hydratase suggesting that it has a role in mitochondrial utilization of citrate synthesized by the _LOCATION_ rather than citrate synthesized inside the _LOCATION_ . to determine the impact of this switch of _METHOD_ on aconitase function spectrophotometric assays of aconitase activity were performed . these assays showed a fold lower aconitase activity in shoot than in cell culture mitochondria . two enzymes around aconitase in the cycle namely citrate synthase and oxoglutarate dehydrogenase were also lower in abundance and in activity in shoot mitochondria . on the non decarboxylating side of the tricarboxylic acid cycle subunits of succinyl coa synthetase fumarase and malate dehydrogenase were all higher in shoot than in cell culture . however measurements of fumarase and malate dehydrogenase activities could not find changes in maximal activities of these enzymes . pdc is a key entry point of _PROTEIN_ into the tricarboxylic acid cycle and is considered to be a key point in regulation as phosphorylation/dephosphorylation controls its activity . this complex is made up of a variety of components and changes in the abundance of several subunits were observed . the dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferases form the core of the enzyme and both single lipoyl and double lipoyl _METHOD_ are present in arabidopsis but it is apparent that the balance between these _METHOD_ is altered with the double lipoyl form being more abundant in cell culture and the single lipoyl form being more abundant in shoot mitochondria . two _METHOD_ of the catalytic subunit are also present in both shoot and cell culture samples but in both cases the shoot protein spots show a more acidic pi . this is consistent with the known changes in these protein subunits during phosphorylation suggesting that more of the is phosphorylated and thus inactive in the shoot mitochondrial samples . assaying pdc in the presence of pyruvate and absence of _PROTEIN_ to fully dephosphorylate and activate the enzyme revealed a similar activity in both shoot and cell culture samples . a number of enzymes linking amino acid metabolism and the tricarboxylic acid cycle were highlighted in the dige comparisons . alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase were both more abundant in shoot than in cell culture mitochondria and glutamate dehydrogenase subunits moved on gels to more acidic pi values in shoot mitochondria . this is interesting because the combination of these enzymes could be used to bypass the early steps of the tricarboxylic acid cycle feeding amino acid pools and generating oxoglutarate for export from the _LOCATION_ . although glutamate dehydrogenase catalyzes a reversible reaction mitochondrial gdh is generally understood to work in the deaminating direction to form oxoglutarate and contribute to nadh production that can then be used by the respiration chain to couple to _PROTEIN_ production . assay of gdh from our mitochondrial samples in both directions showed that although there was no increase in the maximal activity in the deaminating direction in shoots there was a _PROTEIN_ in the maximum aminating activity in shoots . this change in enzyme properties correlates with the pi shift in this protein and would be consistent with an increased potential for net oxoglutarate production of gdh in shoot mitochondria . aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase can also catalyze oxoglutarate formation from glutamate through transamination of pyruvate and oaa . this scenario provides pathways for oxoglutarate formation that are independent of the early down regulated steps of the tricarboxylic acid cycle that can be used in further assimilation of nitrogen outside mitochondria or could fuel the _PROTEIN_ steps of the tricarboxylic acid cycle at a higher rate . this proposal supports previous evidence showing that the tricarboxylic acid cycle partially operates in the light and that flux through mitochondrial isocitrate dehydrogenase is not essential for oxoglutarate formation in arabidopsis . transport properties of isolated plant mitochondria and the principles of the malate aspartate shuttle are consistent with this pathway . the oaa entering the mitochondria in shoots can be converted into malate by _PROTEIN_ condensed with acetyl coa by citrate synthase or used to feed the amino acid pool via aspartate aminotransferase . oaa also facilitates the transport of malate and glutamate thus playing an important role in the balance of photosynthesis and mitochondrial respiration . malate in mitochondria can also enter the tricarboxylic acid cycle via either pyruvate or oaa catalyzed by malic enzyme or _PROTEIN_ respectively . as alanine aminotransferase catalyzes the reversible transfer of an amino group from glutamate to pyruvate to form oxoglutarate and alanine it does not only play a role in amino acid metabolism but also in limiting entry into the down regulated portion of the tricarboxylic acid cycle by depleting the pyruvate pool . four proteins of the branched chain amino acid degradation pathway were altered in abundance but in different directions _PROTEIN_ and isovaleryl coa dehydrogenase are higher in cell culture whereas both _PROTEIN_ and and subunits are higher in shoot mitochondria . this apparent discrepancy can be understood when the pathway is considered isovaleryl coa dehydrogenase and _PROTEIN_ are required for a step in metabolism common to leu/ile/val metabolism whereas _PROTEIN_ is specifically for leu metabolism . we have shown previously that respiration by cell culture mitochondria via _PROTEIN_ best utilizes val and the val derived organic acid over leu or ile derivatives whereas plant leaf mitochondria are best known for catabolism of leu and knock out of _PROTEIN_ in arabidopsis leads to accumulation primarily of leu derived organic acids in leaves . a number of other mitochondrial metabolic networks that might be linked to both the photorespiratory pathways and the tricarboxylic acid cycle can also be proposed based on the proteins up regulated in shoot mitochondria . glycolate dehydrogenase/oxidase an fad oxidase domain containing protein that catalyzes the oxidation of glycolate to glyoxylate is increased in abundance in shoot mitochondria by fold . although peroxisomal glycolate oxidation is essential for the photorespiratory pathway mitochondrial glycolate degradation is not essential as mitochondrial glycolate dehydrogenase mutants grow under ambient _PROTEIN_ concentration . however it is noteworthy that the abundance of alanine glyoxylate aminotransferase _PROTEIN_ was lower in shoot than in cell culture mitochondria . _PROTEIN_ could couple with glycolate dehydrogenase in converting glycolate into glycine using alanine as an amino donor providing substrate for photorespiratory gdc . this is consistent with evidence that the release of radioactive _PROTEIN_ from labeled glycolate is significantly reduced when the concentration of glycine added to isolated mitochondria increases . thus it is possible that in the light where the total mitochondrial glycine pool is high in shoot mitochondria the amount of glycine input into the photorespiratory pool by _PROTEIN_ may be restricted . glyoxylate can also be readily oxidized non enzymatically to produce formate . this pathway could be the preferred fate of glyoxylate in shoot mitochondria because the abundance of _PROTEIN_ in shoot mitochondria is significantly higher . in addition a fold increase in _PROTEIN_ activity in shoot mitochondria compared with cell culture suggests a higher influx to the mitochondrial formate pool in shoots . _PROTEIN_ catalyzes the oxidation of formate to produce _PROTEIN_ . nadh produced from formate oxidation can then be used by the respiratory chain . oxidation of formate therefore may offer an alternative pathway to energy production in mitochondria . the dysfunction of gdc and shmt can lead to the production of formaldehyde that can be readily detoxified to produce less toxic formate by aldehyde dehydrogenase . it has also been shown that a substantial amount of serine can be derived from supplied formate . mitochondrial formate can enter the metabolic pathway via its reaction with tetrahydrofolate and because methylene tetrahydrofolate is incorporated into serine in the reaction catalyzed by shmt formate can be used as an alternative to glycine for the formation of serine and thus enter the photorespiratory cycle by bypassing gdc . indeed a gdc mutant in barley has also shown a light dependent increase in the rate of serine formation via a gdc independent pathway . recent studies of arabidopsis overexpressing formate dehydrogenase demonstrated that formate oxidation is the preferred metabolic fate of formate . arabidopsis double knock out mutants of gdc p proteins do not develop beyond cotyledon stage under non photorespiratory conditions and even the addition of formate could not improve their growth . these results indicated that the gdc route of photorespiration can not be bypassed and gdc independent serine formation can only partially compensate for a deficiency in the glycine cleavage system . the cysteine biosynthetic pathway in the mitochondria involves the assimilation of inorganic sulfur and its integration into the amino acid pool . in this study we identified cysteine synthase at fold higher levels in shoot mitochondria . cyss _METHOD_ part of a cysteine synthase complex with serine acetyltransferase and incorporates serine and acetyl coa with free sulfide in a two step cysteine biosynthetic pathway . this pathway thus not only couples with photorespiration through serine utilization but may also act as a control at the entry to the tricarboxylic acid cycle . this enzyme has both o acetylserine lyase activity and cyanoalanine synthase activity in arabidopsis . the cas activity in cyss allows the detoxification of cyanide an inhibitor of complex iv to form a less toxic sulfide providing an extra line of defense to avoid cyanide inhibition of the cytochrome c oxidase . in potato the activity of both cas and cyss was higher in leaves than in tuber . together with the results presented here it appears that the abundance of cas and cyss is significantly higher in photosynthetic tissues this might be influenced by the level of operation of both the tricarboxylic acid cycle and photorespiration . although ief/sds _PROTEIN_ allowed the identification of several respiratory chain proteins that were differentially _PROTEIN_ only a limited number of hydrophobic proteins were resolved due to their lack of solubility under ief conditions . to assess any possible changes in the structure and composition of the respiratory complexes digitonin treated mitochondrial fractions isolated from cell culture and shoot were fractionated by differential blue native/sds _PROTEIN_ . the composition and relative abundance of the major respiratory complexes were very similar in shoot and cell culture samples . five protein spots that differed in abundance between the samples were identified using lc _METHOD_ . subunit of succinate dehydrogenase _PROTEIN_ appeared to be post translationally modified in the shoot mitochondrial samples as seen by an apparent increase in the molecular weight of the shoot protein band in bn/sds _PROTEIN_ and as increased acidity of the shoot protein spot in ief/sds _PROTEIN_ . this protein was identified as one of the plant specific subunits in complex ii but its exact role in complex ii function is not certain . analysis of the peptide spectra obtained from both ief and bn gel samples from both tissues for this protein failed to identify spectra for altered _METHOD_ peptides that might reveal the nature of this modification . the other proteins identified were _LOCATION_ bound _PROTEIN_ prohibitin and a minor protein spot of _PROTEIN_ that appeared to be more abundant in the shoot sample . thus there appeared to be relatively little difference in the respiratory chain . the and kda subunits of complex i were identified by dige ief/sds _PROTEIN_ separation to be differentially _PROTEIN_ surprisingly in opposite directions in shoot and cell culture . the bn/sds _PROTEIN_ showed no significant difference in the abundance of the assembled complex i or its individual components . the differences in the amount of these particular subunits may represent variations between shoot and cell culture mitochondria in the state of the protein assembly into complex i and the abundance of these subunits in the _PROTEIN_ . the plant specific kda subunit is one of the few complex i subunits that can be readily identified in _PROTEIN_ samples from arabidopsis mitochondria . most of the other changes seen in the dige ief/sds _PROTEIN_ separation were matched to or subunits of the _PROTEIN_ synthase . these were all minor protein spot variants for these proteins or low level degradation products there was no apparent change in the major protein spots containing the bulk of _PROTEIN_ synthase subunits on either ief/sds _PROTEIN_ or bn/sds _PROTEIN_ . to assess to what extent changes in mitochondrial protein abundance correlate with elevated levels of transcripts in arabidopsis shoot and cell culture we performed affymetrix genechip experiments using triplicate rna samples prepared from the same plant material we used for mitochondrial isolations and compared our proteomics data with corresponding transcript data . this analysis showed that genes were significantly up regulated in shoots and genes were up regulated in cell culture of the gene products that were called positive in the array replicates . of the non redundant set of proteins found to be different in abundance between cell culture and shoot mitochondria of the transcripts were detected in the array experiments and these data were matched for further analysis . the change in abundance of transcript was assigned to all the corresponding protein spots detected in the dige experiment excluding protein spots that were previously found to be the minor protein spots for these proteins in gels . in addition a further series of protein spots present in the dige analysis but found not to change significantly were matched to genes by comparison with reference gels for arabidopsis mitochondria of these could be matched to transcripts detected in the replicated array experiments . this provided a set of different data points that are shown in a scatter plot of mrna to protein _PROTEIN_ ratio in cell culture and shoot mitochondria . the diagonal line would be expected if the protein and mrna abundance ratio is perfectly correlated . as expected the majority of the mitochondrial components are clustered within quadrants b and c indicative of a positive correlation between protein and mrna abundance . a parametric correlation analysis of the plotted data using the pearson correlation method gives a correlation coefficient of indicating that the mrna and protein abundance ratio in shoot and cell culture mitochondria is positively and moderately correlated . notably only of the data points fall into quadrants a and d indicating discordant changes in transcript and protein abundance . this subset includes components involved in the tricarboxylic acid cycle stress defense and also branched chain amino acid catabolism . the correlation between transcript and protein abundance in either shoot or cell culture separately was measured using spearman rank correlation giving a correlation coefficient of and respectively . overall this suggests that protein abundance within these _METHOD_ is likely to be controlled at a range of different levels but does contain a significant element of control by transcript abundance . this is consistent with a number of other studies broadly comparing mrna level and protein abundance in a variety of species .
arabidopsis cell suspension was cultured in growth medium at under a h day/night regime and light intensity of with orbital shaking at rpm . cultures were _PROTEIN_ in ml _LOCATION_ flasks by the inoculation of ml of day old cells into ml of fresh growth medium . dark grown cells used for mitochondrial isolation were subcultured from day old light grown cultures and grown under the same conditions as described for light grown cell cultures . conditions for the hydroponic culture were _PROTEIN_ from schlesier et al . with slight modifications . approximately wild type arabidopsis thaliana seeds were surface sterilized in ethanol for min followed by min incubation in bleach tween inverting five times every min . seeds were then washed five times with sterilized water and were carefully dispensed on a stainless steel wire mesh platform layered previously with sterilized agarose in a round plastic vessel containing ml of liquid medium sucrose ph . arabidopsis plants were grown under a h light/dark period with light intensity of at over weeks . liquid medium was regularly replaced with freshly made liquid medium every days . isolation of mitochondria from cell culture was carried out using the method modified from millar et al . and sakamoto et al . . cells were incubated at for h in ml of enzyme buffer cellulase pectolyase ph . protoplasts were harvested by washing twice in enzyme buffer without cellulase and pectolyase and centrifugation at g for min . cells were disrupted in extraction buffer pvp bsa mm egta mm cysteine ph by five strokes in a potter elvehjem homogenizer . the homogenate was centrifuged at g for min and the resulting supernatant was then centrifuged at g for min . the pellet of crude organelles was carefully resuspended in mannitol wash medium bsa and mm _PROTEIN_ ph . following one stroke in a potter elvehjem homogenizer the crude organellar fraction was gently layered over a ml discontinuous percoll density gradient consisting of over and percoll solution in mannitol wash medium . the gradient was then centrifuged at g for min . the mitochondrial fraction was seen as an off white band near the percoll interface . the upper layers of the density gradient were removed and the mitochondrial band was collected . the transferred mitochondrial band was diluted fold with sucrose wash medium bsa mm _PROTEIN_ ph and centrifuged at g for min . the mitochondria enriched homogenate was collected and percoll density centrifugation was repeated once as described for the first gradient . prior to ffe the enriched mitochondrial fraction was washed three to four times with ffe separation medium . shoot mitochondria were isolated from week old hydroponically grown arabidopsis using a method _PROTEIN_ from day et al . with slight modification . approximately g of shoot materials were homogenized with a polytron blender in ml of cold grinding medium pvp mm edta mm bsa mm ascorbic acid ph for s twice with s intervals between bursts . the homogenate was filtered through four layers of miracloth and centrifuged at g for min and the resulting supernatant was then centrifuged at g for min . the organelle pellet was washed by repeating the and g centrifugation steps twice in sucrose wash medium . the resulting pellet of crude organelles was carefully resuspended in sucrose wash medium and gently layered over a ml continuous percoll density gradient consisting of pvp . the gradient was then centrifuged at g for min . the mitochondrial band was seen as a yellow brownish band near the bottom of the tube . the upper layers of the density gradient were removed and the mitochondrial band was collected . the mitochondrial fraction was diluted fold with sucrose wash buffer and centrifuged at g for min . the washed fraction was further purified with percoll density centrifugation as described for the first gradient . the mitochondrial band was collected and washed three to four times with ffe separation medium . zone electrophoresis ffe was conducted using the bd free flow electrophoresis unit as described previously by eubel et al . . for western blotting with _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ bio rad criterion precast gels acrylamide tris hcl mm comb were used . gel electrophoresis was performed at ma/gel for h. polyacrylamide gels were then incubated in transfer solution for h. protein transfer onto a c extra nitrocellulose _LOCATION_ was performed using a hoefer semiphor instrument according to the manufacturer 's instruction . transferred proteins were probed with primary antibodies specifically targeted to _PROTEIN_ porin rbss acetyl coa acyltransferase _PROTEIN_ and fructose bisphosphatase . a chemiluminescence detection linked to horseradish peroxidase was used as a secondary antibody and quantitative light emission was recorded using a luminescent image analyzer _PROTEIN_ . differential ief/sds _PROTEIN_ was performed according to eubel et al . with four independent experiments using software . dige blue native/sds _PROTEIN_ was performed as described in perales et al . with three independent experiments . _METHOD_ protein spots were visualized on a laser scanner and image comparison was done using the decyder software package . sets of gels were first analyzed using the differential in gel analysis mode of the decyder software package prior to a comprehensive biological variance analysis including all three or four gel sets with the same software . gel spots were filtered according to their presence average ratio in abundance change greater than and student 's t test value . gel pictures were electronically overlaid using the image quant software . following scanning for _METHOD_ signal gels were stained and visualized by colloidal _METHOD_ staining for _METHOD_ _METHOD_ analysis . in gel digestion of the selected gel plugs was performed according to taylor et al . . samples were resuspended in acetonitrile and formic acid . peptides were loaded onto self packed microsorb reverse phase columns using an agilent technologies series capillary liquid chromatography system and eluted into an _PROTEIN_ ultra iontrap _METHOD_ spectrometer with an esi source equipped with a low flow nebulizer in positive mode and controlled by _METHOD_ and _METHOD_ trap control version software . peptides were eluted from the reverse phase column at using a min acetonitrile gradient in formic acid at a regulated temperature of . the method used for initial ion detection utilized a _METHOD_ range of m/z with scan mode set to standard ion charge control conditions set at and three averages taken per scan . smart mode parameter settings were used with a target of m/z a compound stability _PROTEIN_ of a trap drive level of and optimize set to normal . ions were selected for _METHOD_ after reaching an intensity of counts/s and two precursor ions were selected from the initial _METHOD_ scan . _METHOD_ conditions used smartfrag for ion fragmentation a scan range of m/z using an average of three scans the exclusion of singly charged ions option and ion charge control conditions set to in ultra scan mode . resulting _METHOD_ spectra were exported from the dataanalysis for _METHOD_ trap version software package using default parameters for _METHOD_ and compound export . results were queried against an in house arabidopsis database comprising _PROTEIN_ from the arabidopsis information resource and the arabidopsis mitochondrial and _LOCATION_ protein sets using the mascot search engine version and utilizing _LOCATION_ tolerances of da for _METHOD_ and da for _METHOD_ max missed cleavages set to variable modifications of oxidation _PROTEIN_ and h loss instrument set to esi trap and peptide charge set at and . _PROTEIN_ is a non redundant database with systematically named protein sequences based on arabidopsis genome sequencing and annotation . results were filtered using standard scoring max . number of hits set to auto and ions score cut off set at . a protein match was automatically validated only when at least two unique peptides both showing an ion score higher than were present . for proteins identified by a significant peptide having a score above the significance threshold only the spectrum of the significant peptide was thoroughly inspected to fulfill the following criteria before accepting as a match . each peak corresponding to a fragmented ion was clearly above base line background noise a series of at least four continuous y or b ions were observed and peptides did not match to any sequences in trypsin or any commonly known contaminants . for proteins identified only by multiple peptides with each ion scored above the homology threshold every single _METHOD_ spectra was thoroughly checked . when all the criteria were met the final protein score must exceed or the match would be rejected . to estimate the false positive rate of our protein identification strategy a single concatenated mascot generic format file generated by mascat that comprised all the _METHOD_ output data was then used to search against reversed _PROTEIN_ and randomized _PROTEIN_ versions of the arabidopsis database using the above search strategy . the false positive rate in target _PROTEIN_ searches was found to be for peptides with ion scores > as calculated using the equation described previously . when peptides were matched to multiple members of a protein family encoded by different arabidopsis genes each protein match was manually inspected to identify the peptide that was uniquely assigned to one gene product but not to the others . protein _METHOD_ that were identified by the same set of peptides were both assigned as protein matches . when proteins of different families were identified in a gel spot a reference map of the arabidopsis mitochondrial proteome was used to identify the most probable match taking into account the number of peptides with ion score > and the quality of delta _METHOD_ for each peptide . for protein matches with only one unique peptide the peptide sequence was searched against the non redundant protein database in national center for biotechnology information blastp to ensure that no other proteins share exactly the same peptide sequence . oxygen consumption by plant extracts and crude and purified mitochondria was measured in a computer controlled clark type electrode unit . calibration of the electrode was carried out by the addition of sodium dithionite to remove all oxygen in the electrode chamber . the air saturated oxygen concentration was assumed to be . all reactions were carried out using ml of mitochondrial reaction medium _PROTEIN_ bsa ph and of mitochondrial sample . cytochrome c oxidase activity was determined by the rate of oxygen consumption according to neuburger et al . . pyruvate succinate glutamate malate glycine formate nadh nad coa thiamine pyrophosphate and kcn were added as appropriate to modulate the oxygen consumption rates of mitochondria . pyruvate dehydrogenase complex and ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex activity were measured according to taylor et al . . formate dehydrogenase _PROTEIN_ activity was measured as described by oliver . the activity of nad malic enzyme was measured according to jenner et al . . fumarase was assayed as described by hatch . the amination and deamination activity of glutamate dehydrogenase at was measured according to turano et al . . aconitase was assayed using a modification of the method of macdougall and ap rees . the rate of change in was monitored in the following mixture mm hepes naoh mm nadp mm units of nadp isocitrate dehydrogenase triton x . the reaction was initiated by the addition of mm aconitate . the activity of malate dehydrogenase was measured by following nadh oxidation to nad at nm . the assay was carried out using the following reaction mixture mm koh triton x mm nadh . the reaction was initiated by the addition of oxaloacetate . the activity of citrate synthase was measured by following apad reduction to apadh at nm by citrate synthase dependent malate dehydrogenase _PROTEIN_ reaction . the assay was carried out using the following reaction mixture mm triethanolamine koh triton x mm l malate apad units of malate dehydrogenase . the reaction equilibrated at room temperature for min and citrate synthase activity was measured after the addition of acetyl coa . microarray analysis of the changes in transcript abundance in cell culture and shoot was performed using affymetrix arabidopsis _PROTEIN_ genome arrays . total rna was isolated using the rneasy plant miniprotocol and rnase free dnase kit . the quality of isolated rna was assessed by spectrophotometric analysis of ratio using an nd uv visible spectrophotometer and qualitative analysis using an agilent bioanalyzer . synthesis of double stranded cdna biotin labeling and fragmentation of cdna target hybridization washing staining and scanning of arrays were performed as specified in the affymetrix genechip _PROTEIN_ analysis technical manual . oligo _PROTEIN_ and biotinylated hybridization controls were included in the hybridization as controls . prior to hybridization to an _PROTEIN_ genechip the quality of the target crna was assessed by hybridization of the prepared crna to a array . hybridization was performed in an affymetrix genechip hybridization oven . washing and staining were performed using an affymetrix fluidics station . scanning was performed with an affymetrix genechip scanner . washing staining scanning and data extraction were performed using affymetrix genechip operating software . affymetrix cel files generated were further analyzed using avadis analysis software . data were normalized using the algorithm and subjected to _PROTEIN_ transformation . absent probe sets were filtered out before averaging three biological replicates to get the _PROTEIN_ value . the locus number for each probe identity was retrieved from tair database . the differential analysis was performed taking cell culture as reference to identify genes that are _PROTEIN_ more than fold in shoot with false discovery rate adjusted p values less than . the arabidopsis subcellular localization database _PROTEIN_ was used to determine all the genes that are likely to be found in the mitochondria . all microarray data are available from arrayexpress under accession number e _PROTEIN_ experiment name millar_athal_cells . images of the replicated dige ief/sds _PROTEIN_ and bn/sds _PROTEIN_ gels are in supplemental data . scores and matched peptides for identifications in table ii are in supplemental data . .mgf files for each protein spot spectra for identifications based on single peptides available for reanalysis and a graph of the false positive rate versus ion score for the concatenated _METHOD_ data set are provided as supplemental data . primary data from forner et al . and kislinger et al . were reanalyzed to performed pairwise comparisons using pearson correlation analysis on their mitochondrial components from different organs to compare with our own data in fig . this reanalysis is presented in supplemental data .
