guard cell movements are regulated by environmental cues including for example elevations in _LOCATION_ concentration . here the subcellular localization and physiological function of the receptor protein was investigated . cas protein localization was ascertained by microscopic analyses of green _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ fusion proteins and biochemical fractionation assays . comparative guard cell movement investigations were performed in and cas mutant lines of arabidopsis thaliana . cytoplasmic dynamics were addressed in plants _PROTEIN_ the yellow cameleon reporter protein . this study identified cas as a protein that is crucial for proper stomatal regulation in response to elevations of external . cas fulfils this role through modulation of the cytoplasmic concentration . this work reveals a novel role of the chloroplast in cellular signal transduction .
we recently identified the calcium sensor protein cas in _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ of c. reinhardtii after fractionation of isolated chloroplasts . comparative proteomics using tandem _METHOD_ spectrometric peptide profiling validated the cas _LOCATION_ localization in c. reinhardtii . the orthologous cas protein from a. thaliana has however previously been reported to represent a cell surface receptor that mediates _LOCATION_ sensing in guard cells . conversely but in line with the c. reinhardtii proteomic study an a. thaliana proteomic study also identified cas as a _LOCATION_ protein . this situation prompted us to pursue a detailed investigation of the evolutionary conservation cellular localization and function of the a. thaliana cas protein . to investigate the phylogenetic distribution of cas we performed a database search using the cas protein sequence from a. thaliana as query . this analysis identified protein sequences from nine different plant species . no closely related protein sequence was detected in nonplant species . conserved cas proteins were detected in two species of the green alga genus osteroccus the moss physcomitrella patens and the fern pteris vittata as well as in several monocotyledonous and dicotylodonous species . with the exception of p. patens which possesses two closely related cas proteins this protein appears to be encoded by a gene in all other species . cas proteins differ in their lengths ranging from to aa with the osteroccus tauri protein exhibiting an additional extension of approx . aa . the two predicted proteins from p. patens do not contain an methionine and appear to lack the domain present in all other cas proteins . this difference may be caused by incorrect annotation of the genome sequence . a detailed sequence comparison of the identified cas proteins revealed a rather high degree of conservation between aa positions and of the protein alignment . as a common feature all proteins harbor a conserved domain in the region . although a function has not been assigned to this domain experimentally it may have a regulatory rather than an enzymatic function as the potential catalytic cysteine residue in all sequences is exchanged for an asparate . to further elucidate the potential subcellular localization of a. thaliana cas protein and the newly identified cas proteins from fern and seed plant species we analyzed the protein sequences using established localization prediction _METHOD_ . in these analyses all cas proteins were unambiguously classified as proteins and characteristic sequences were identified . these target sequences represent the variable domain of the cas proteins and vary in length from aa in p. vittata to aa in vitis vinifera . moreover the cas protein sequences from all vascular plant species analyzed start in the region with the canonical aa motive consisting of the amino acid combination methionine and alanine at the very of the sequence . taken together these results identify cas as a conserved protein that exhibits structural features typical for protein localization . we next addressed the _PROTEIN_ pattern of cas by quantitative pcr using rna isolated from root leaf stem flower and silique tissue respectively . while no significant amounts of cas mrna were detected in root tissues we observed strong cas _PROTEIN_ in leaves . in stem flower and silique tissues cas gene _PROTEIN_ was also clearly detectable although at lower levels than in leaves . this _PROTEIN_ pattern coincides with the distribution of photosynthetically active chloroplasts in plant tissues and is in accordance with the results of publicly available transcriptomics analyses presented at the _METHOD_ browser _METHOD_ . to experimentally investigate the subcellular localization of cas from a. thaliana we determined the subcellular localization of cas _METHOD_ fusion proteins in transiently transformed n. benthamiana protoplasts using confocal laser microscopy . as localization controls we included constructs _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ and _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ as established cytoplasmic chloroplast and _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ localization markers respectively . we injected a. tumefaciens cultures _PROTEIN_ the different constructs into intact plant leaves and isolated protoplasts d after inoculation . localization of the _METHOD_ cas fusion protein was exclusively observed in chloroplasts . an identical localization was detected for the _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ fusion protein . importantly deletion of the transit peptide abolished chloroplast targeting of the fusion protein and resulted in cytoplasmic localization as was observed for the _METHOD_ protein . investigation of _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ illustrated the localization of a _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ protein . as previous studies have reported that cas is involved in stomatal regulation we were especially interested in investigating the localization of cas _METHOD_ fusion proteins in guard cells of intact leaves . to this end transiently transformed leaf discs from n. benthamiana were examined by confocal laser microscopy . in these experiments we detected cas _METHOD_ as well as the _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ fusion proteins exclusively in the chloroplasts of the two guard cells . no _METHOD_ was observed in the _LOCATION_ or at the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ . in addition we analyzed the localization of cas _METHOD_ in photosynthetic parenchyma tissue and solely detected this fusion protein in chloroplasts and not in other cellular compartments . these experiments provide evidence for a function of cas in chloroplasts and do not support the localization of this calcium sensor protein in other cellular compartments . to further corroborate these cell biological analyses of cas localization we performed subcellular fractionation analyses by isolating intact chloroplasts from transiently transformed tobacco plants _PROTEIN_ a cas strepii tagged fusion protein . isolated chloroplasts were further separated into _LOCATION_ and soluble fractions . western blot analysis with a antibody revealed a strong enrichment of the cas protein in the _LOCATION_ subfraction . immunoblot detection of the _LOCATION_ marker protein chlorophyll binding protein _PROTEIN_ validated the _LOCATION_ localization of cas . to elucidate the function of cas in plants we employed a approach and isolated and characterized two insertion mutant lines . the mutant alleles and were obtained as segregating lines from the nasc and collections respectively . homozygous individuals for both alleles were identified by pcr using and primer combinations . sequence analysis of pcr products generated with primer combinations specific for the flanking regions of the insertions localized the in bp downstream of the _PROTEIN_ initiator codon within the first intron of the gene . in the insertion was located within the third intron and this insertion event turned out to be accompanied by a deletion of a genomic sequence . therefore one border of the follows nucleotide of the cas genomic sequence whereas the other border precedes nucleotide . to determine cas mrna _PROTEIN_ in the two insertion lines we performed on homozygous mutant individuals and control plants . pcr transcript analysis of the constitutively _PROTEIN_ gene actin _PROTEIN_ served as an internal control . a transcript was clearly detected in plants . by contrast _PROTEIN_ of functional cas mrna was reduced to undetectable levels by the insertion in both and mutant lines . moreover with a primer combination specific for the region downstream of the insertions led to the generation of a pcr product in control plants but not in cas mutant lines . these results indicate that cas _PROTEIN_ in the two mutant alleles is reduced to undetectable levels . the isolated homozygous individuals as well as their progeny showed no obvious phenotype under normal growth conditions . previous studies in a. thaliana guard cells established the importance of calcium signaling for the regulation of stomatal aperture . elevation of external calcium concentration promotes stomatal closure . previous investigations of this response reaction using cas antisense lines suggested a crucial role of cas in mediating the closure in response to external calcium application . therefore we were especially interested to comparatively investigate this stomatal response reaction in and mutant and plants . application of mm to intact leaves significantly reduced the stomatal aperture in plants within h . however in the and mutants stomatal closure was significantly attenuated compared with the response . in control treatments without application we did not observe differences in stomatal aperture when comparing and mutant plants . comparative analyses of stomatal closure in response to abscisic acid application did not reveal differences between the cas mutants and wild type . these results indicate that the protein cas is specifically involved in regulating stomatal closure in response to external calcium elevation . stomatal closure in response to increases in the external concentration is accompanied by transient and repetitive elevations in cyt . to investigate the contribution of the cas protein to regulation of stomatal closure in more detail we further analyzed cytoplasmic calcium dynamics in response to exogenously applied calcium . to this end we generated as well as lines _PROTEIN_ the _METHOD_ calcium indicator under the control of the promoter . transgenic and plants _PROTEIN_ were subjected to ratiometric _METHOD_ calcium measurements after exposure . application of mm calcium to epidermal peels of a. thaliana leaves induced a strong calcium _PROTEIN_ within s in guard cells . this initial calcium elevation was followed by consecutive oscillations that proceeded for the duration of the measurements . with increasing time after calcium application we observed a decline in the amplitudes of oscillations of cyt . in sharp contrast the mutant exhibited only very weak calcium oscillations and in most of our analyses we did not observe an initial _PROTEIN_ . these results are largely congruent with the previous finding that cytoplasmic oscillations in concentration were not detectable in cas antisense plants after exposure to external stimuli . moreover these data provide evidence for a crucial role of the cas protein in the generation and/or regulation of cytoplasmic responses . we next addressed the questions of whether the signaling events downstream of the intracellular oscillations are also affected in cas mutants and whether the impairment of _LOCATION_ elevations is causally linked to the observed differences in stomatal responsiveness . we applied externally imposed oscillations to epidermal strips and measured stomatal closure at several . this method was established by allen et al. and allows one to determine whether a mutant is still able to respond to the correct signal or whether its defect lies downstream of the _LOCATION_ elevations . four pulses of mm buffer under hyperpolarizing conditions were applied to epidermal strips incubated in depolarizing buffer thereby imposing four externally controlled transients on the guard cells . the and cas plants responded to these imposed _LOCATION_ oscillations with similar degrees of stomatal closure . stomatal aperture was reduced to approx . of its initial value after min while the was comparable between and mutant plants . this result clearly indicates that the mutant is able to respond to signals and provides further evidence that the cas protein is necessary to generate the transients required for stomatal closure .
molecular biology methods were applied according to standard procedures . a list of primers used in this work can be obtained upon request . the identity of all plasmid constructs generated in this study was verified by sequencing . gene _PROTEIN_ analysis of cas by quantitative and investigation of cas gene _PROTEIN_ in the lines were performed as described previously . arabidopsis thaliana heynh . cv . plants were used in this work and cultivated in a growth chamber under a h light h dark cycle with atmospheric humidity and a temperature regime . insertion lines were obtained from nasc and stockcenters respectively . the insertion positions in the gene were confirmed by pcr using border primers and cas gene specific primers followed by dna sequencing of the pcr products for both flanking sides . analyses of the insertion with the kanamycin and sulfadiazine marker genes of the in segregating populations revealed a single insertion in both mutant lines . proteins from other species were identified by comparisons of the a. thaliana cas protein sequence with entries in the genbank database using the blastp algorithm . deduced protein sequences were aligned with clustalw . the resulting multiple alignment was processed with bioedit to determine the homology scores . to create a phylogenetic tree amino acid sequences were aligned together with a representative from the related protein family from arabidopsis as an . tree reconstruction based on the method and confirmation of tree topology by bootstrap analysis were performed with . intact chloroplasts and _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ were isolated from transiently transformed tobacco leaves as described in ruf et al . . protein analyses by _PROTEIN_ western blot and immunodetection were performed as published previously . the cas strepii fusion protein was detected using the horseradish peroxidase conjugate against the . infiltration of n. benthamiana leaves was performed as described previously . all constructs for localization studies were cloned into the _METHOD_ vector containing either or mannopine synthase promoters . plasmid introduction into agrobacterium tumefaciens and infiltration of n. benthamiana leaves were performed as described by walter et al . . protoplast preparations were performed according to d angelo et al . . _METHOD_ microscopy was performed with an inverted microscope equipped with the leica tcs device _METHOD_ . detection of _METHOD_ was performed for _METHOD_ with excitation at nm . _METHOD_ of _LOCATION_ was detected at nm . all images were acquired using a objective from leica . detached a. thaliana leaves from plants grown under conditions were floated on incubation buffer at . after h of incubation the solution was replaced with incubation buffer with a final calcium concentration of mm and the leaves were incubated for another h. subsequently epidermal peels of each line were prepared and the length and opening width of stomata were determined using an inverted microscope . each assay was performed in triplicate and as a blind experiment . _LOCATION_ calcium transients in a. thaliana guard cells were analyzed in epidermal strips prepared from to plants _PROTEIN_ the calcium indicator . epidermal strips were prepared by gently pressing the abaxial side of the leaf on a coverslip covered with a thin layer of medical adhesive and removing the upper layers of the leaf with a razorblade . samples of the different lines were then incubated for h in incubation buffer at in the light . coverslips were then placed in a perfusion chamber which was fit to an inverted leica dmi microscope equipped with an emission filter wheel and an orca _LOCATION_ cooled digital camera . excitation was provided by a xenon lamp through a filter . emission filters were nm _METHOD_ and nm _METHOD_ . ratiometric images were collected and ratios of medium intensities in regions of interest calculated using openlab software . pictures were taken at intervals . cells showing weak _METHOD_ were excluded from data collection . ratiometric measurements were performed when the guard cells of one stomate had opened nicely during the incubation time and showed equal size and form and full turgor for the measurement . cells were monitored in the incubation buffer for min and the buffer was then quickly replaced by incubation buffer that had a final calcium concentration of mm to elicit endogenous calcium oscillations . epidermal strips were prepared as described for ratiometric measurements . intracellular calcium transients were imposed in and guard cells by incubation of epidermal strips in depolarizing buffer for h and subsequent alternating pulses of hyperpolarizing buffer and depolarizing buffer . stomatal apertures at zero were considered to represent for each experiment .
