the arabidopsis are a protein family with similarity to the microtubule associated proteins _PROTEIN_ that accumulate in the spindle midzone during _PROTEIN_ anaphase in mammals and yeast respectively . here we investigate the molecular and functional properties of and improve our understanding of properties . we demonstrate that in vitro both proteins promote the formation of a planar network of antiparallel microtubules . in vivo we show that selectively binds the preprophase band and the prophase spindle microtubule during prophase whereas _METHOD_ selectively binds the preprophase band but does not accumulate at the prophase spindle microtubules that coexists within the same cell . at _PROTEIN_ stages of mitosis and differentially label the _PROTEIN_ spindle and phragmoplast . we present evidence for a mode of action for both proteins that involves the binding of monomeric units to microtubules that zipper up antiparallel arranged microtubules through the homodimerization of the n terminal halves when adjacent microtubules encounter .
when was incubated with rhodamine labeled mts mt bundles were observed . as already reported produced similar mt bundles . and were both localized along the entire length of the bundles . electronmicrographs of induced bundles show that mts are parallel arranged and separated by cross bridges at an average distance of nm . the cross bridges form a lattice that is equally spaced along the mt walls and diagonally oriented between two adjacent parallel mts . the angle between the cross bridges relative to the mt axis was on average . comparable data were obtained with as described for carrot by citation . to locate the domains of and required for mt bundling and cross bridge formation we defined three different domains on the basis of the amino acid sequence alignment of the . roughly the domains correspond to the n terminal the central and the c terminal regions of the and proteins . in addition the domain was subdivided in two domains the n terminal part including the most evolutionarily conserved domain of family and the c terminal part which is divergent among the members . the separate fragments as well as combinations thereof were purified as his tagged recombinant proteins . high speed centrifugation of both and their different constructs after incubation with mts led to the sedimentation of the proteins carrying the domain of either or . the proteins and did not sedimented with mts . these results indicate that the mt binding domain of and is located in the domain corresponding to the conserved part of the c terminal domain of these two maps in agreement with previous reports on members . the efficiency of mt bundling by the different proteins was assayed by low speed centrifugations that allow single mts to remain in the supernatant while bundled mts sediment . analysis of the supernatant and pellets showed that the mts cosedimented with the constructs and but not with . these results demonstrate that the n terminal and the central domain of both and are independently able to promote mt bundling in vitro that the domain carrying the mt binding domain is not able by itself to induce microtubule bundling and that the domain is not required for such activity . observations of rhodamine labeled mts incubated with and confirmed the cross linking activity of the n terminus and the central domains independently from each other . measurements at the em level of the distance between mts into bundles showed that the inter mt space was narrower in the presence of fragments than with the full length and except for which induced the same inter mt spacing than full length . these results suggest that the length of the proteins upstream of the mt binding domain is determinant for the interspacing between mts within bundles . noticeably even if the domain of does not interact with mts it might play a role in the conformation of the binding domain because the distance between mts in the presence of full length is at two times longer than for . the em observations of mt bundles induced by and full length proteins and the different fragments suggested that the inter mt space depended on the protein size . as the measured distances for the full length proteins of nm on average are too large for a single protein to cover oligomerization of the was suspected . therefore we determined their degree of oligomerization in solution by sedimentation velocity analytical ultracentrifugation and size exclusion chromatography . the sedimentation coefficient of at and and of at were s . the calculated theoretic w values for hydrated globular compact monomers of is and s for i.e. significantly larger than experimental values . the mw was roughly estimated from sv boundary spreading to be kda for the two proteins in agreement with the predicted values of and kda for and respectively . the results indicate that and are monomeric in solution and that they adopt extended conformations . the hydrodynamic radii of and were calculated to be and respectively corresponding to a frictional ratio f/fmin of . sv experiments with the different peptides provided s values corresponding as well to monomers with f/fmin of . gel filtration chromatography showed an apparent mw in a range of kda for both and much larger than the expected kda . likewise fragments produced apparent molecular sizes exceeding the values predicted from sequence data . as proteins with a high intrinsic disorder tend to show reduced mobility in gel filtration columns and because the experimentally determined mws deviated from the predicted values we suggest that and are possibly disordered and might adopt an elongated shape in solution . indeed according to their hydrodynamic properties and behaved as random coils . using software several disordered domains in and sequences were identified . because disordered domains generally lack _PROTEIN_ structure and fold only upon interaction with other proteins the presence of such domains in and support the viewpoint that they undergo conformational changes upon interaction with microtubules _METHOD_ and/or regulatory proteins . having determined that in solution both and are monomeric and postulating that at least a homo dimer may be necessary to bundle two mts together we considered that and may bind to mts as monomers and that this binding is not stable until they interact with a partner localized to a parallel mt . to address this question we incubated single mts with _METHOD_ tagged or . we observed that _METHOD_ and _METHOD_ localized along the mt bundles _PROTEIN_ whereas no significant accumulation of either or along mts could be detected . a key issue of the organization of mt bundles is their _PROTEIN_ . here we determined the _PROTEIN_ of mts within and induced bundles in vitro using cryo em as described by citation . observed in vitreous ice mts with skewed protofilaments show arrowhead patterns the origin of which is related to an asymmetry of the _METHOD_ distribution of the tubulin molecules in the mt wall . the arrowheads point toward the plus end of mts when protofilaments show a right handed skew and toward the minus end of mts when protofilaments show a left handed skew . cryo em observation of in vitro and induced mt bundles confirmed the diagonal cross linking pattern between adjacent mts as detected by classic em . the inter mt space in bundles was in the range of nm and was more regular in comparison to bundles which displayed mt separations varying between and nm . note that for technical reasons values obtained with cryo em are different from those calculated from em micrographs . this point is explained in details in material and methods . the patterns of and bundled mts showed that the orientation of adjacent mts in bundles induced by or was antiparallel . because no parallel arranged mts were detected that are connected via or cross bridges we conclude that these two specifically promote antiparallel bundling of mts . a much more complete description of the methodology used is explained in detail in supplemental materials . further inspection of the diffraction patterns calculated from cryo em images revealed an additional regular patterning corresponding to the spacing between and cross bridges in projection . the diffraction patterns are calculated from vitrified mt images revealing an additional regular patterning at project corresponding to the spacing between and cross bridges in projection . this spacing corresponds to the tubulin dimer repeat . nevertheless this further regular patterning corresponds to a feature through the _PROTEIN_ of the sample thus we can not conclude that we have one bound per tubulin dimer . in conclusion these data show that the two ends of cross bridges observed within mt bundles are linked to adjacent mts indicating that at least two mt binding domains are necessary to link two adjacent mts . besides the properties of and to bundle mts we further addressed whether could affect tubulin assembly in vitro . we quantified the amount of tubulin that polymerized in the presence of by high speed cosedimentation assays and by time lapse spectroscopy . in both series of experiments we observed an increased amount of tubulin in the presence of suggesting that has an effect on tubulin assembly . by imaging assays rhodamine labeled tubulin assembly in the presence of showed few mt bundles and often aggregates associated with radiating mts were observed . as there is a controversy concerning the effects of and its c terminal part on tubulin assembly we performed similar experiments with both full length and the truncated protein . we observed an increase in the amount of the polymerized tubulin in the presence of both and . had a comparable although reduced activity in tubulin polymerization in comparison with . we noted that also has similar effects on tubulin assembly than with being slightly less efficient than the full length protein . no polymerization of tubulin in the presence of the domains and of was observed in contrast to a recent report by citation or with the domain of . and on the other hand did stimulate mt bundling when incubated with tubulin . because and have been shown to protect cmts from cold induced depolymerization we suggest that the effect on mt polymerization observed in vitro might be _PROTEIN_ due to a stabilization of the mts . overall the data suggest that the _PROTEIN_ activity of and is to induce mt bundling but not to promote mt polymerization in vitro in line with previous reports on and . to study mt binding properties in vivo we followed its subcellular localization in transformed dividing by cells _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ and compared it to the localization . typically during interphase cmts were decorated with _METHOD_ . we found that during prophase _METHOD_ strongly labeled the preprophase band a hallmark for the division zone and the perinuclear mts before the initiation of the bipolar spindle . the perinuclear mts labeled with are coaligned and formed a basket surrounding the _LOCATION_ . in some cells at the _PROTEIN_ sides of the cage mts emanate toward the distal ends of the cells . these aster like mts when present were labeled by _METHOD_ . upon _LOCATION_ envelope breakdown _METHOD_ dissociated from the perinuclear mts to reassociate with the interdigitated mts at the spindle midzone at the end of metaphase until the end of anaphase . on initiation of the phragmoplast _METHOD_ accumulated in the central zone displaying discrete filamentous structures between the separating _LOCATION_ . a few minutes _PROTEIN_ when the phragmoplast flattened _METHOD_ concentrated at a narrow zone in the center and at the side of the _LOCATION_ that faces the equatorial zone . in comparison _METHOD_ that which colocalizes with the cmts and the preprophase band was absent from the perinuclear area but did associate with aster like _PROTEIN_ mt bundles when present . furthermore _METHOD_ showed a limited accumulation at the spindle midzone only in early anaphase the labeling being stronger in _PROTEIN_ anaphase . these observations revealed that in vivo the mt binding of _METHOD_ is spatially and temporally regulated during the cell cycle and that its subcellular distribution during mitosis is partly different to that of .
domains of and and deleted of one domain were purified as tagged proteins with either his tag at n and c termini or _METHOD_ at the n terminus and his tag at the c terminus using homemade vectors . primers used to amplify cdnas are given in supplemental table . for and three domains were defined for the domain the domain and the domain for the domain the domain and the domain . these domains and or deleted of one domain were further referred to as and and as and . all sequences were verified by sequencing . recombinant proteins were purified on ni sepharose columns and stored at in glycerol mm napi m nacl and mm dtt ph . a detailed protocol is given in supplemental data . purified bovine tubulin was assembled in g buffer _PROTEIN_ . polymerization was monitored at nm at or . for experiments using preformed mts mts were assembled from tubulin in presence of of taxotere in g at for min and further diluted in g supplemented with taxotere . mts were incubated with at for min . for cosedimentation assays reaction mixtures were spun through a glycerol cushion . supernatants and pellets were analyzed on western blot probed with anti or anti antibodies . for analyses of the relative efficiencies of full length and constructs of to bundle mts cosedimentation assays were done at low speed centrifugation . _METHOD_ mts assembled from a mixture of rhodamine labeled tubulin and unlabeled tubulin were incubated at with and observed according to citation . for binding on mts rhodamine mts were incubated for min with _METHOD_ and a sample was observed on _METHOD_ microscope and a hamamastu ccd orca camera and metaview image processing _PROTEIN_ . for negative stain electron microscopy observations mts were incubated at for min with . samples were stained with uranyl acetate and observed on a _PROTEIN_ microscope operating at kv . the _PROTEIN_ of mts within bundles was determined by cryo em as described by citation . with this method mts show fringe patterns produced by the superposition of protofilaments from the front and back of the mt wall in projection . to increase the contrast of fringes observed in vitrified mts images we computed filtered images using the and jn _METHOD_ in the fourier transform of the images . arrowhead patterns formed by the dark fringes are then clearly visible on these filtered images . these differences between the values calculated from negative stain em or cryo em micrographs are inherent to the two methods of sample preparation for em and are explained by the _PROTEIN_ that with negative staining procedure we only observe surface information . furthermore after this procedure mt bundles may be flattened whereby _LOCATION_ are introduced that account for an apparent shorter inter mt distance and a smaller angle . on the other hand the cryo em method preserves much better the native form and the structure of the specimen and images contain information all along the _PROTEIN_ of the vitreous sample contributing thus to a larger distribution of mt interspace lengths . via cryo em a projection of a object is obtained allowing the calculation of internal positional information of the specimen . because the specimen preparation procedure preserves better the original structure data are more reliable . analytical ultracentrifugation sedimentation velocity experiments were performed at and rpm in two channel centerpiece cells loaded in a rotor _PROTEIN_ in a beckman xli . samples were obtained from gel filtration eluted with glycerol m nacl mm ddt and mm napi ph . scans were recorded overnight at nm . analysis done with the program sedfit were performed in _METHOD_ of continuous distribution c of sedimentation coefficients s and in _METHOD_ of noninteracting species allowing the independent determination of s and molecular weight . equations for calculation of w and mw are given in supplemental data . the disordered regions were determined using the software . recombinant purified and were used as antigens to raise antibodies . antisera were produced at a commercial facility . igg was isolated from the antisera by the method described by citation . _METHOD_ _METHOD_ and red _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ constructs are already described . _METHOD_ constructs were supertransformed into a by suspension culture stably _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ as described . the by cells were imaged using a chambered coverglass system and immobilized in by medium with added vitamins and of low melting point agarose . images were captured on using a water corrected lens with an na of and zoom on an olympus fluoview inverted confocal microscope with standard enhanced _METHOD_ _METHOD_ and monomeric _METHOD_ _METHOD_ settings _METHOD_ _METHOD_ using consecutive line capturing mode and four times laman line averaging . reconstruction was performed using the software module of the software .
