the plant cell wall is a dynamic cellular compartment consisting of a complex _PROTEIN_ of components that can change dramatically in response to environmental stresses . during pathogen attack for instance a wide spectrum of proteins that participate in various sequential processes involved in plant defense is secreted into the cell wall . in this study a _METHOD_ _METHOD_ data independent acquisition approach known as _METHOD_ was used to assess temporal changes in the cell wall proteome in response to different levels of an endogenous inducer of plant disease defense responses salicylic acid . _METHOD_ was used as a label free method that enabled simultaneous protein identification and absolute femtomole quantification of each protein secreted into the _LOCATION_ _PROTEIN_ . a total of secreted proteins were identified of which showed increased specific secretion in response to sa . a majority of this induced secretion occurred within h of treatment indicating that many proteins are involved in the early stages of plant defenses . we also identified a number of apparently nonclassically secreted proteins suggesting that as in many nonplant _METHOD_ _LOCATION_ independent _METHOD_ exist for plant protein secretion . these results provide new insight into plant apoplastic defense _METHOD_ and demonstrate that _METHOD_ is a powerful tool for obtaining both relative and absolute proteome scale quantification that can be applied to complex time and dose dependent experimental designs .
tryptic digests of secreted proteins were analyzed using an alternate scanning mode of data acquisition _METHOD_ on a q tof _METHOD_ spectrometer as described above . _METHOD_ is a recently introduced novel mode of data independent acquisition where alternating _METHOD_ scans of lower and higher collision energy are used to simultaneously capture peptide precursor intensity data and peptide fragmentation data allowing both protein quantification and identification in the same analysis . figure citationa shows a chromatogram from one of the duplicate injections of a h treatment with mm sa . each stick in the chromatogram corresponds to a unique peptide at its retention time and each peak s height corresponds to the overall peptide intensity derived from combining the intensities of all charge states and associated isotopes for that peptide . within this chromatogram are highlighted unique peptides for the _LOCATION_ dermal glycoprotein _PROTEIN_ several of which can not be seen clearly without selecting a smaller retention time window . this reflects the sample complexity and the dynamic range of the observed peptide intensities . figure shows product ion spectra for the three most intense peptides detected from _PROTEIN_ during this analysis . these _METHOD_ spectra provide excellent product ion coverage across each peptide with relatively high _METHOD_ measurement accuracy _METHOD_ _METHOD_ _LOCATION_ and are similar or identical to the expected product ion spectra that would be generated from similar cid _METHOD_ analyses using a data dependent acquisition approach . the basis for absolute quantification using _METHOD_ data and an example of its reproducibility is illustrated in figure citation . on the basis of their intensities the top three peptides matching to _PROTEIN_ were plotted for each analytical replicate at the and h time points . these peptide abundance measurements are in excellent agreement between duplicate injections and show a clear increase in intensity that parallels increased secretion of _PROTEIN_ between the and h samples . absolute quantification of _PROTEIN_ was calculated by comparing the average intensities of these top three intensity peptides in each injection with a response _PROTEIN_ generated from the average intensity of the three most intense peptides matched to the fmol phosphorylase b internal standard . comparing the resulting protein quantification between duplicate technical replicates by calculating the correlation coefficient between replicate measurements plotted as _PROTEIN_ intensities in a scatter plot showed that reproducibility between replicate analyses was excellent . in addition the percent coefficient of variation was calculated across all proteins and technical replicates . over of the duplicate injections displayed cvs of less than another verification of the excellent analytical reproducibility obtained with the _METHOD_ approach . to identify proteins involved in plant defense responses we assessed temporal changes in the arabidopsis secretome in response to sa . absolute quantities of individual proteins from samples treated with mm sa and from uninduced hba treated controls at and h were compared to determine potential levels of induced secretion . a total of proteins were identified in the secretome with of these proteins having a > fold increase in secretion in response to sa at one or more time points . previous proteomic studies using standard gel based proteomic approaches identified sa responsivecitation and chitosan/elicitor responsivecitation proteins in the arabidopsis secretome . as discussed above a major advantage of a label free _METHOD_ approach such as _METHOD_ is that it does not require pairwise comparisons between samples thus accommodating more complex experiments . in turn the type of _PROTEIN_ study reported here not only enabled us to assess time and dose effects of sa on protein secretion but also led to identification of a larger number of sa responsive proteins . the identified sa responsive proteins were assigned to one or more of the functional groupings described by schoof et al.citation . about three quarters of the proteins are in the four major groups that is metabolism unclassified defense related and proteins with binding functions . other minor group proteins include those involved in protein fate interaction with the environment metabolic regulation cellular transport protein synthesis cell fate and development . plant defense _METHOD_ are an interconnected set of transient as well as sustained processes that initiate immediately after pathogen attack and last for periods ranging from minutes to hours to days . these responses include the initial rapid transient production of reactive oxygen species with the subsequent induction of a localized hypersensitive response and ultimately the sa mediated induction of proteins and processes comprising what is termed systemic acquired resistance . each of these responses in turn requires the _PROTEIN_ and function of a potentially wide range of proteins hormones or secondary metabolites . our longitudinal study across h post sa treatment generated a picture of the distribution of proteins with significantly altered secretion over four points compared with time matched uninduced controls . these results suggest that most induced protein secretion takes place within the first h after sa treatment with the number of proteins with induced secretion _PROTEIN_ after h. to further evaluate the temporal dynamics of secretome changes sa responsive proteins were categorized into four groups based on secretion patterns induced by mm sa . in pattern induction of protein secretion reached a maximum h post treatment . there are sa responsive proteins that fall into this group including calmodulin glutathione transferase peroxidase and jacalin lectin . in pattern induction of protein secretion reached a maximum h after sa treatment . the proteins in this group include chitinase cu/zn superoxide dismutase and a glycosyl hydrolase . in pattern induction of protein secretion reached a maximum h after sa treatment . the proteins in this group include a cyclase family protein glycoside hydrolase and expansin like proteins . in pattern secreted proteins showed two maxima over the h time course . these proteins include a pectinesterase an aminopeptidase a _PROTEIN_ associating protein and a lipid transfer protein . the observation that a majority of proteins fell into the first two groups suggests that many secreted proteins have key roles during the early stages of plant defense . _LOCATION_ proteins are classically characterized by the presence of an amino terminal signal peptide in the protein sequence that has three domains a positively charged n region a central hydrophobic h region and a _PROTEIN_ c region . this peptide sequence constitutes a signal that directs proteins to the _LOCATION_ secretory pathway . it has been traditionally believed that this n terminal leader peptide is strictly required for targeting specific protein secretion in plants . however when the program signalp was employed to predict the presence of a signal peptide in the observed secreted proteins there were proteins without a recognizable signal peptide . among the proteins showing maximal secretion within the first hour after sa treatment lacked a signal peptide . among those showing sa induced maxima at h lacked a signal peptide . in contrast for proteins secreted at _PROTEIN_ time points only lacked a signal peptide . therefore many of the proteins that were most rapidly secreted in response to sa might be secreted by leaderless so called nonclassical _LOCATION_ independent _METHOD_ . the virtual absence in our secretome samples of proteins normally abundant in the plant cytoplasm indicates that the appearance of these leaderless proteins is not a result of nonspecific cell lysis . protein sequences were also analyzed on the neural network server secretomep . this program is based on the observation by bendtsen et al.citation that secreted proteins all share characteristic features associated with _LOCATION_ function and that these features are independent of specific secretion _METHOD_ . features assessed include specific post translational modification consensus sequences and degradation signals as well as protein structure size charge and amino acid composition . interestingly when we used secrotomep to predict secretion of the leaderless proteins identified a majority were indeed predicted to be secreted . however one must note that a number of classically secreted proteins had nn scores < _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ . since predictions by such _METHOD_ are limited by available data sets output scores are guidelines not precise determinations . in eukaryotes other than plants nonclassical protein secretion has been studied for almost two decades . since the secretion of the leaderless cytokine interleukin was first observed citation a growing number of stress or pathogen induced nonclassically secreted proteins have been reported along with a number of proposed alternate secretion _METHOD_ for many of these proteins such as fibroblast growth _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and high mobility group box protein _PROTEIN_ the induction of secretion by stress is required.citation _PROTEIN_ for example normally plays a major role in chromatin binding and _PROTEIN_ of _LOCATION_ homeostasis . however when secreted by neural cells in response to a variety of stresses it acts as a cytokine that promotes inflammation and participates in the pathogenesis of disorders of peripheral organs . leaderless secretion allows proteins to be released rapidly in response to stressors without having to go through transcription translation and subsequent secretion via the _LOCATION_ pathway . it also allows a normally cytoplasmic protein to relocate to the _LOCATION_ space where it can perform alternate tasks . for example one of the sa responsive proteins identified in our study is calmodulin a protein lacking a signal peptide yet predicted by secretomep to be secreted . calmodulin is known to be an intracellular calcium sensor but its role as an _LOCATION_ polypeptide signal was only recently proposed.citation it appears then that calmodulin serves as a dual messenger with roles either inside or outside the cell depending on environmental requirements . another important role for nonclassical secretion _METHOD_ is to provide an alternate secretory route for proteins whose passage through the _LOCATION_ could be disruptive . in our study several jacalin related proteins were identified . these proteins lack a signal peptide yet secretomep analysis predicts their secretion . since jacalin related proteins share the domain structure of plant lectins their secretion via a classical pathway would allow colocalization with and thus disruption of the secretion of glycoproteins present in the _LOCATION_ . in addition to the examples above there is an increasing number of reports of individual proteins or enzyme activities that localize to the apoplast in response to pathogen infection or stress despite the _PROTEIN_ that the associated proteins lack a signal peptide . for example _LOCATION_ sod activity in stressed or pathogen infected plants is well documented citation even though no identified plant sod has a signal peptide . other recent proteomic studies have also reported the presence of proteins in the plant secretome that lack an identified signal sequence.citation oh et al.citation reported that of the secreted proteins they identified lacked a signal peptide including a methyltransferase a heat shock protein and several ubiquitin like and calmodulin like proteins . other reports of leaderless secreted proteins include citrate synthase luminal binding protein phospholipase d and lactate dehydrogenase.citation in some reviews of these reports however the _LOCATION_ appearance of these proteins has been dismissed as a result of _LOCATION_ contamination during protein extraction.citation this is in spite of careful assessment of contamination usually included in these studies such as assessing the presence of _LOCATION_ marker proteins by activity assays and/or immunoblot analysis . it is possible that some previously unidentified signal sequences are responsible for the unexpected secretion of these proteins . however given the substantial and still growing evidence for the unconventional secretion of proteins in nonplant _METHOD_ we should not rule out the possibility that alternative export pathways also exist in plants . upon pathogen attack proteins participate in a number of linked sequential defense responses in the _LOCATION_ spaces . these include the detection of pathogen invasion generation of reactive oxygen species termed the oxidative burst and the accumulation of antimicrobial proteins . absolute quantification enables us to more clearly identify major changes in protein secretion in response to sa and to direct our attention to the possible protective functions of these individual proteins . the detection of an attacking pathogen is believed to be mediated by various signal molecules called elicitors . elicitor molecules include oligosaccharides glycoproteins and lipids originating from either the invading pathogen or from the plant cell wall . chitin for example is a common component of fungal cell walls and its fragments can serve as an elicitor/signal recognized at an early stage in pathogen infection by plant _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ receptors.citation _PROTEIN_ is a pathogenesis related protein with chitinase activity that hydrolyzes the chitin component of fungal cell walls resulting in the release of chitin fragments that signal resistance responses.citation these findings are consistent with the early and _METHOD_ induction of _PROTEIN_ secretion we observed in response to even the lowest level of sa treatment . the perception of elicitors by the plant cell triggers a number of early defense responses . the rapid production of ros at the site of attack is generally considered to be one of the earliest responses and is thought to be required for both its direct antimicrobial effects and for triggering the localized programmed cell death called the hypersensitive response . ros at lower concentrations farther from the site of infection is thought also to act as a signal that induces the synthesis of sa and the ensuing induction of pr proteins that mediate acquired systemic resistance.citation two _METHOD_ are proposed for the generation of ros one involving activation of a _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ nadph oxidase the other involving the action of an _LOCATION_ cell wall peroxidase.citation in a previous study cell wall associated type iii peroxidases have been proposed to play an important role in plant resistance to pathogens.citation antisense _PROTEIN_ of a french bean peroxidase cdna in arabidopsis led to the reduction in mrna level of arabidopsis peroxidase _GENE_ a _PROTEIN_ in the strength of the oxidative burst and _PROTEIN_ resistance to fungal and bacterial pathogens.citation the arabidopsis gene _GENE_ encodes a type iii peroxidase protein whose secretion is detected immediately after sa treatment . this also is consistent with the hypothesized role of peroxidases in at least sustaining if not initiating the ros that signal plant early defense responses . another protein believed to be involved in ros signaling is the antioxidant enzyme sod . a pathogen induced increase in apoplastic sod activity previously has been reported citation and this _LOCATION_ sod is believed to catalyze the synthesis of from nadph oxidase generated superoxide . as well as generating which is thought to be a systemic signal for induction of resistance this sod mediates the transient nature of the oxidative burst and prevents accumulation of toxic superoxide . in our data significantly induced secretion of the _LOCATION_ cu/zn sod is observed within h after mm sa treatment . this is consistent with the proposed function of sod in limiting the duration of the oxidative burst to an early event in plant defense . the jacalin related protein is one of the few proteins identified in our study that was also reported in previous secretome studies involving plant pathogen response.citation although the molecular function of jacalin related proteins is still poorly understood sequence analysis of these lectin proteins reveals their similarity to pathogen induced defense genes in a number of different plants.citation it may be significant that some plant lectins exhibit binding specificity to mannose citation an abundant sugar moiety present in surface glycoproteins of bacteria and fungi and thus suggests a possible function for plant pathogen defense . glutathione s transferase _PROTEIN_ is a stress related protein involved in plant pathogen defense.citation the detoxifying properties of _PROTEIN_ result from its ability to catalyze the transfer of the tripeptide glutathione to a variety of substrates . the induction of _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ in response to pathogen infection is rapid occurring within the first hour of sa treatment . previous reports show that inoculation of arabidopsis with avirulent pseudomonas syringae leads to maximal gst rna accumulation within the first h with _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ h after inoculation.citation the reported timing of up regulation and accumulation of gst rna agrees with the protein secretion pattern seen in our study suggesting that _PROTEIN_ secretion immediately follows its biosynthesis . an _LOCATION_ dermal like glycoprotein _PROTEIN_ was also identified as being among the most abundant secreted proteins . the induced secretion of this protein reaches a maximum h after sa treatment and the protein quantity is almost fold higher than even the highly abundant _PROTEIN_ proteins . although a role for this arabidopsis protein in defense response has not been previously reported blast results revealed its sequence similarity to an xeg inhibitor protein in tomato . xeg is a xyloglucan specific fungal endoglucanase secreted by the fungus aspergillus aculeatus to hydrolyze plant cell walls during the infection.citation the observation that the xeg inhibitor protein is secreted in such _METHOD_ quantities in response to sa suggests a potential direct role in inhibiting fungal endoglucanases . this recruitment of proteins with previously existing _LOCATION_ functions that now perform additional _LOCATION_ functions in response to pathogen attack _METHOD_ likely to be a common consequence of coevolution . our study of the changes in the arabidopsis secretome in response to sa not only helps confirm the proposed protective roles of secreted proteins with previously known functions but also provides a list of candidate proteins with previously unknown functions for future investigation . for example calmodulin is one of the more abundant sa responsive proteins with secretion induced early after sa treatment . although the role of intracellular calmodulin in calcium signal transduction is well documented the existence of a plant _LOCATION_ calmodulin and its function had not been studied until the past decade.citation because calmodulin receptor like binding proteins have been recently found on the surface of arabidopsis suspension cells citation this _LOCATION_ calmodulin was proposed to act as a peptide signal that interacts with these receptors and has been suggested to be involved in the initiation of pollen germination and tube growth.citation it is also reported to stimulate stomatal closure through the activation of heterotrimeric g proteins coupled with generation and cyt elevation.citation the data from our secretome study further suggests that _LOCATION_ calmodulins are also involved in some previously unknown aspect of plant pathogen interactions . finally with appropriate controls label free absolute protein quantification using _METHOD_ enabled the separation of normal cell culture responses from true sa induced responses . for example the secretion of _PROTEIN_ an _LOCATION_ _PROTEIN_ structural constituent is apparently a result of cell culture responses instead of a triggered defense response .
acetonitrile dithiothreitol formic acid _PROTEIN_ salicylic acid hydroxybenzoic acid and iodoacetamide were from sigma aldrich . ammonium bicarbonate was from fluka . sequencing grade modified trypsin was from promega . water for _METHOD_ analysis was distilled and purified using a high q purification system . all other chemicals were from fisher scientific or sigma aldrich and used without further purification . cell suspension cultures derived from arabidopsis thaliana ecotype columbia were _PROTEIN_ on a day transfer cycle in _METHOD_ mediumcitation containing mg/l d and sucrose . cell cultures were shaken at rpm at with a h h dark photoperiod at a light intensity of /s under mixed _METHOD_ lights . after day subculture cells for secretion experiments were washed thoroughly and incubated for the indicated time in _METHOD_ medium supplemented with or mm sa . for control treatments cell medium was supplemented with mm of hba an analogue of sa that does not induce plant resistance responses.citation three independent experiments were performed . each experiment consisted of treatments including three sa levels at four time points . after treatment suspension cultures were filtered to remove cells from the medium . following collection protein quantities secreted into the media in response to different treatments were determined by the method of bradford citation and the sample volume to be used in subsequent analysis was determined accordingly . to ensure that proteins in the media were not a result of cell lysis an enzymatic assay for the presence of the _LOCATION_ enzyme _PROTEIN_ phosphate dehydrogenase citation was performed immediately upon media collection at the completion of a treatment . enzyme activities were detected in cell lysates but not in the collected media . media samples were then concentrated by freeze drying and resuspension in water . salts small peptides and other water soluble medium components were then removed by dialysis against mm tris at overnight and final sample volumes adjusted by acetone precipitation and resuspension in mm ammonium bicarbonate . because the isolated secretome is a collection of water soluble proteins _METHOD_ compatible detergents were not necessary . each protein sample was further assessed by immunoblot analyses to confirm the absence of the _LOCATION_ marker protein hexokinase .citation activity and hk immunoblot analyses both indicated that cytoplasmic contamination of secretome samples was extremely low . conversely immunoblot analyses were also used to verify consistent experiment to experiment induction and secretion of the classical pathogenesis response protein _PROTEIN_ finally visual inspection of _METHOD_ stained gels for each sample was used to monitor protein recovery and relative protein quantities secreted . after confirming experiment to experiment reproducibility secretome samples from three replicates from equal amounts of cells for each of the time and dose treatments were pooled . although perhaps less than ideal statistically this was deemed necessary to reduce samples to a manageable number without compromising our _METHOD_ measurements since lack of experimental variation was verified by immunological and biochemical means . given the biological uniformity of the cell cultures as opposed to individual _METHOD_ this approach is not unprecedented.citation for each pooled sample the proteins were reduced with mm dtt for h at alkylated with mm iodoacetamide for h at room temperature and proteolytically digested with trypsin by adding a trypsin to protein ratio and incubating at overnight . prior to _METHOD_ analysis each digested protein sample was _PROTEIN_ with a predigested rabbit phosphorylase b internal standard at a level of fmol per injection . for sample analysis aliquots of secretome tryptic digests were analyzed in duplicate by _METHOD_ using a nanoacquity ultrapressure liquid chromatograph and premier q tof _METHOD_ spectrometer equipped with a nanolockspray ion source . samples were injected online onto a waters symmetry trapping cartridge at a flow rate of . next peptides were separated by in line gradient elution onto a i.d . cm column packed with beh stationary phase particle size at a flow rate of nl/min using a linear gradient from to b over min . the q tof was operated in the _METHOD_ mode of acquisition where alternating s scans of low or high collision energies are used to generate either intact peptide ions or peptide product ions . glu fibrinopeptide at a concentration of was infused via the nanolockspray ion source at a flow rate of nl/min and sampled every s as the external _METHOD_ calibrant . samples were injected as sets based on treatment from earliest to _PROTEIN_ time points . as protein content in the secretome typically increases over treatment dose and time queuing samples in this manner resulted in samples with lower protein content being analyzed first . this sample order was designed to minimize protein carryover more effectively between consecutive injections than using randomized sample injection . a protein standard analyzed prior to the first sample injection and again following the last sample injection showed no significant loss in instrument sensitivity or performance during the course of the analysis . each raw data file was processed using proteinlynx global server software to generate charge state reduced and deisotoped precursor _METHOD_ lists as well as associated product ion _METHOD_ lists for subsequent protein identification and quantification . each processed file was then searched against the protein database obtained from www.arabidopsis.org using the identitye database search algorithm within plgs prior to searching the internal standard rabbit phosphorylase b sequence was added to the database and redundant entries were removed using an ad hoc c program . except for the false positive rate default search parameters were used including the automatic setting for _METHOD_ accuracy a minimum of peptide match per protein a minimum of consecutive product ion matches per protein and a minimum of total product ion matches per protein . the maximum false positive rate _METHOD_ against the randomized forward database was set to and the absolute protein quantification functionality was enabled using the phosphorylase b internal standard . only missed tryptic cleavage site was allowed during the search . a fixed _PROTEIN_ cys modification was used in addition to the following variable modifications deamidation of asn and gln oxidation of met and dehydration of ser and thr . following database searching identified proteins and their amounts derived from absolute quantification were compared across injections to determine dose and time dependent secretion profiles . missing data were replaced with a value representing the limit of detection as determined by the smallest detected protein amount within the data set . outlier absolute quantification values between technical replicates were manually corrected by normalizing peptide intensities of the protein of interest against the intensities of peptides from the _PROTEIN_ internal standard .
