nine genes that encode proteins of the family have been identified in the arabidopsis thaliana genome . in this study we reported that a member of the family could strongly stabilize microtubules . bacterially _PROTEIN_ fusion proteins induced the formation of large mt bundles in vitro . although showed little effect on mt assembly or nucleation greatly stabilized mts that were subjected to low temperature treatment in vitro . analyses of truncated versions of indicated that the region that encompassed amino acids which formed a flexible extended loop played a crucial role in the stabilization of mts . analysis of suspension cultured arabidopsis cells that _PROTEIN_ the _METHOD_ fusion protein showed that co localized with mts throughout the cell cycle . cortical mts that were decorated with _METHOD_ were more resistant to the mt disrupting drug propyzamide and to ice treatment in vivo . the results of this study demonstrate that strongly stabilizes mts and is involved in the regulation of mt organization and dynamics .
the cdna sequence for was obtained by rt pcr and introduced into the pet vector . the his fusion protein was _PROTEIN_ in escherichia coli strain and purified for further analysis in vitro . _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ showed that the purified his corresponded to a major band with a molecular weight of kd which was recognized by the anti polyhistidine antibody . binding of to mts was detected and quantified by co sedimentation analysis . in the absence of mts was found predominantly in the supernatant with a little in the pellets . after the addition of taxol stabilized mts however the amount of in the pellets increased significantly and the amount in the supernatants _PROTEIN_ . when was incubated with mts the amount in the pellets increased from in the absence of mts to . therefore the fusion protein bound to and co sedimented with mts in vitro . the effect of on mt polymerization was measured by an assay that monitored the changes in turbidity of a tubulin suspension after the addition of the fusion protein . when or was added the absorbance at nm after tubulin polymerization had reached a steady state increased seven or fold compared to that in the presence of tubulin alone . however two possibilities could account for such results the total amount of mt polymers increased in the presence of this phenomenon was produced by mt bundling . therefore we polymerized mts in the presence of varying concentrations of and detected the amount of tubulin in the pellets after co sedimentation by _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and densitometry . paclitaxel which is able to promote tubulin assembly was used as a positive control . the results showed that with the addition of increasing concentrations of the amount of increased correspondingly both in the pellets and supernatants . however the amount of tubulin in the pellets did not change significantly with the increasing amounts of . paclitaxel promoted tubulin assembly strongly and increased the amount of tubulin in the pellet . this result indicated that was capable of promoting mt bundling but did not promote tubulin assembly . the lag time of tubulin assembly which is an indicator of the efficiency of mt nucleation was also calculated from the turbidity curves that were obtained with varying concentrations of . the lag times were all min _PROTEIN_ of the concentration of that was present . therefore did not affect the nucleation of tubulin polymerization . furthermore the mt bundling effect of was investigated by confocal and electron microscopy . taxol stabilized mts which had been polymerized from rhodamine labeled tubulin existed as single filaments in the absence of as seen by confocal microscopy or negative staining electron microscopy . in the presence of the formation of large mt bundles was induced . to confirm the effect of on mt bundling mm nacl was added to the solution to strip the protein from the mts . mt bundles whose formation had been induced by the presence of were dispersed into single filaments after the addition of mm nacl . therefore we conclude that is capable of bundling mts . due to the _PROTEIN_ that exhibited little effect on mt polymerization and nucleation but did promote mt bundling we further examined whether had the ability to stabilize mts . tubulin depolymerization that had been induced in vitro by cold treatment in the presence or absence of was monitored . tubulin at a concentration of was assembled into mts for min at . when protein was added the absorbance after tubulin polymerization had reached a steady state increased more than fold which was _PROTEIN_ due to mt bundling . the temperature was then dropped from to and the absorbance was recorded for another min . in the absence of the mts disassembled quickly after the temperature dropped to . however in the presence of the curve dropped much more slowly and gradually which indicated that the mts were more stable under cold treatment . it has been reported previously that has some stabilizing effect on mts at but does not significantly increase their stability at . therefore we tested the stabilizing effect of on mts during incubation on ice and used fusion protein as a control . at a concentration of or at was incubated with rhodamine labeled tubulin at for min to allow tubulin polymerization . the solution was then placed on ice for min before fixation . after fixation the samples were observed by confocal microscopy . the results showed that single mt filaments or mt bundles that had been induced by were fully disassembled after ice treatment . however many of the mts that had formed in the presence of persisted after the ice treatment even after the addition of mm which accelerates mt depolymerization . therefore was a stronger stabilizer of mts than . although shares a high degree of amino acid identity with the results of the above described experiments showed that they exhibited different mt stabilizing capacities especially during ice treatment in vitro . therefore we asked which amino acids of were responsible for this difference . a previous study has indicated that amino acids of form the region that is most highly conserved between the members of the family . after aligning the amino acids of with those of we found that with the exception of the conserved mt binding region the degree of identity between the n terminal portions of the two proteins was whereas that between the residual c terminal portions was . the most diverse region between the two proteins corresponded to amino acids of and of . amino acids of form a disordered loop . therefore bioinformatic analysis was employed to investigate the protein structure of . there is a high probability that contains three coiled coil domains which are formed by amino acids and . an nors between amino acids and of was also predicted according to the criteria of liu and rost . in order to investigate whether the nors in is critical for its role in mt stabilization truncated versions of were created based on the alignment of all amino acid sequences that were described by smertenko . five truncated versions were generated the n terminal portion of which comprised amino acids and was _PROTEIN_ helical the c terminal portion which comprised amino acids and consisted of an helix and the nors amino acids which corresponded to the mt binding region and is the domain that is most conserved between the members of the family amino acids which corresponded to the nors alone and amino acids which comprised the remainder of the protein after the nors had been deleted . firstly co sedimentation experiments were performed to analyze the mt binding activities of the five truncated proteins . the results showed that four of the truncated proteins and could bind to mts whereas which comprised the n terminal half of the protein did not bind to mts . in order to identify the region of that is crucial for the stabilization of mts the and truncated proteins were used for further biochemical analysis . the two truncated fusion proteins were co incubated with rhodamine labeled tubulin at for min . the mts that assembled in the absence of any protein were present as single filaments . however after the addition of or large mt bundles formed . then the samples were incubated on ice for min after which they were fixed and examined by confocal microscopy . this revealed that the mts were disassembled both in the presence or absence of . however and full length were both capable of stabilizing the mts . this result demonstrated that it is the disordered loop and not the n terminal portion that is essential for the stabilization of mts by during ice treatment . members of the family exhibit different patterns of co localization with mts in vivo . however the cellular localization of has not been reported . in order to investigate this localization a construct was generated that encoded with an n terminal _METHOD_ tag . to confirm that the _METHOD_ tag did not disrupt the activity of _METHOD_ fusion protein was _PROTEIN_ and purified from e. coli . the results of co sedimentation experiments with taxol stabilized mts showed that more _METHOD_ fusion protein was found in the pellets in the presence of mts as compared to in their absence . this result indicated that the _METHOD_ tag did not affect binding to mts in vivo . when _METHOD_ was incubated with rhodamine labeled taxol stabilized mts for min and the samples were observed under a confocal microscope the results showed that the _METHOD_ signal from _METHOD_ was distributed smoothly along the mt bundles . this indicated that the _METHOD_ co localized with and bundled the mts . after the addition of mm nacl the _METHOD_ signal could not be detected and the mt bundles were dispersed into single filaments . based on these observations we concluded that _METHOD_ can bind to and bundle mts . therefore the localization of in cells was investigated by _PROTEIN_ the _METHOD_ protein in suspension cultured arabidopsis cells . in addition to the detection of the _METHOD_ signal from _METHOD_ the mts were visualized by immunofluoresence microscopy . dual _METHOD_ imaging of the mts and revealed that _METHOD_ was evenly distributed along the cortical mts . during m phase was localized to the preprophase band . during cell division also decorated the entire mitotic spindle . however during the anaphase to telophase transition was integrated and concentrated in the midline where oppositely oriented phragmoplast mts overlapped . in the phragmoplast co localized completely with the mts . due to the _PROTEIN_ that we showed that mts were stabilized in vitro at low temperatures by the presence of we investigated whether could exert this stabilizing effect in vivo . suspension cultured arabidopsis cells that stably _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ were treated on ice for min and then fixed before being examined by confocal microscopy . dual _METHOD_ imaging of the mts and _METHOD_ was performed . prior to low temperature treatment the control cells contained thin cortical mt bundles whereas _PROTEIN_ bundles of cortical mts that were labeled with _METHOD_ were observed in cells that were _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ . after incubation on ice the cortical mts in the control cells were disassembled into small dispersed spots . however most of the cortical mts remained intact in the presence of _METHOD_ . this observation indicated that also stabilized mts during cold treatment in vivo . many members of the family have been reported to protect mts against the effects of mt disrupting drugs for example renders mts resistant to oryzalin . therefore we tested whether also has this protecting ability using the mt disrupting drug propyzamide . in control cells cortical mts were disrupted within min after the addition of propyzamide . in contrast many mts in cells that were _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ remained intact even after treatment with propyzamide for h . thus the _PROTEIN_ of _METHOD_ increased the resistance of mts to propyzamide .
the full length cdna sequence of was amplified by rt pcr . the known cdna sequence was used to design appropriate primers for the amplification forward cgggatccatggcagtgacagaagc and reverse _PROTEIN_ . amplified products were a tailed cloned into the _PROTEIN_ t vector at the bamhi and noti sites and verified by sequencing . full length cdnas for were subcloned into the vector at the bamhi and noti sites . his tagged fusion proteins were _PROTEIN_ and purified according to the manufacturer s protocols . _PROTEIN_ brain tubulin was purified and labeled with _PROTEIN_ succinimidyl ester rhodamine as reported previously . analysis of the co sedimentation of the fusion proteins with the mts was carried out according to the previously published protocols . for the nacl treatment rhodamine labeled taxol stabilized mts were incubated with in pem buffer _PROTEIN_ at room temperature for min . nacl was then added and the reaction was terminated by the addition of glutaraldehyde after incubation for min . the samples were examined with a zeiss lsm meta confocal microscope . electron microscopy was performed as described previously using a hitachi electron microscope . to _PROTEIN_ the _METHOD_ fusion protein stably in living cells the full length cdna was amplified by pcr and subcloned into the vector . in addition the cdnas for and _METHOD_ were amplified and introduced into the _PROTEIN_ vector which contained a camv promoter . suspension cultured arabidopsis ecotype columbia cells were transformed with the constructs as described previously . the samples were examined by confocal microscopy . protein at a concentration of was added to tubulin in pem buffer with mm _PROTEIN_ . after the tubulin had assembled at for min the temperature was dropped immediately to at which it was _PROTEIN_ for min . the whole process was monitored turbidimetrically by measuring the absorbance at nm using a cm path quartz cell in a du spectrophotometer . to visualize the mts after the ice treatment rhodamine labeled tubulin was polymerized in pem buffer that contained mm _PROTEIN_ in the presence or absence of or the truncation proteins at for min . after incubation the samples were transferred immediately to ice for min . then the samples were fixed with glutaraldehyde for observation by confocal microscopy .
