proteins could be well separated and further identified by the use of de and related techniques . yet there are many proteins could not be detected even by more effective dyes because of their inherent low abundance or their low resolution . as a result polya affinity column was used as a method to enrich polya binding proteins and then identified by maldi tof _METHOD_ . in this study arabidopsis chloroplast protein spots coded by genes were identified and majority of these proteins were classified into three related categories according to their annotations in the swiss prot database including nad rna and _PROTEIN_ binding motifs respectively . the major goal of the present arabidopsis chloroplast proteomics project was to identify novel polya binding proteins or protein _METHOD_ located in arabidopsis chloroplasts and the specific research of cellular proteins with extremely low transcription levels could be fulfilled .
more than protein spots were clearly detected on the de gel of the proteins eluted from the polya affinity column . among them spots representing gene products were identified using the maldi tof _METHOD_ technique after tryptic digest . majority of these proteins were classified into three related categories according to their annotations in the swiss prot database including nad rna and _PROTEIN_ binding motifs respectively . others are unclassified . and all the protein spots still could be visible after three replications . spot was identified as a _LOCATION_ type h _PROTEIN_ subunit . it has a crucial role in the _LOCATION_ system of eukaryotic cells which provides most of the energy required for transport _METHOD_ that utilize the proton motive force generated by _PROTEIN_ hydrolysis . spot and spot were identified as _PROTEIN_ synthetase and subunits respectively . spot was detected as formyltetrahydrofolate synthetase and spot was a putative rubisco subunit binding protein alpha subunit . among the identified spots spot and spot are annotated as mrna binding protein in the database however there is no obvious rna binding domain . spot was identified as a ribosomal protein . spot and spot which were the two largest ones on the de suggesting that they had the most significant ability to combine polya affinity column . four in which belong to the cprnp family and they are all _PROTEIN_ . the results of this study also showed that _PROTEIN_ is the one of most notable chloroplast proteins which has the ability to combine polya . spot and were identified as putative hydroxypyruvate reductase which was _PROTEIN_ as one of the _PROTEIN_ cycle enzymes in all phototrophic _METHOD_ that could catalyze the hydroxypyruvate into glycerate during calvin cycle . spot and spot which are the products of the same gene were identified as serine hydroxymethyltransferase . shmt combined with glycine decarboxylase catalyzed an essential sequence of the photorespiratory _PROTEIN_ cycle namely the conversion of two molecules of glycine into one molecule each of _PROTEIN_ and serine . spot has a double title one was annotated as _LOCATION_ _PROTEIN_ synthase subunit which was also named rubisco large chain . at the same time spot was identified as a rubisco small chain . spots were identified as fructose bisphosphate aldolase which was considered as one of the most important isozymes in the process of life glycolysis metabolic . spot was detected as a v type proton _PROTEIN_ and spot was a putative mitochondrial inner _LOCATION_ protease subunit . all the spots identified above indicate that polya or other similar media may be used for enrichment of low abundance cellular proteins for maldi tof identification . in addition to the identified proteins mentioned above other proteins do not possess evident rna binding properties or the even strong protein spots from the de map shown in fig . could not being identified because they can not be detected by the followed _METHOD_ _METHOD_ technique . _PROTEIN_ fixation subunit rubisco fructose bisphosphate aldolase in the sugar metabolism hydroxypyruvic acid reductase in the photorespiration and the glycine methyl transferase in the amino acid metabolism of which their sequence structure and function also do not have obvious comparability . yet there are many identified proteins have no visible signal that located in the chloroplast . furthermore though silver staining is currently one of the most sensitive detect methods it has strong interference to the followed _METHOD_ _METHOD_ analysis because when staining aldehydes are needed as fixatives . in addition since the special role of the basic amino acids and sulfur containing ones and cystine residues free or very few cystine residues appeared as negative staining there are yet some proteins could not be stained or stained very difficult . the purpose of this study is to screen out the proteins bound with the rnas by de technique . polya is a simple rna sequence and proteins binds to it may have the non specific binding ability to rnas . it is a tentative step of separating all the rna binding proteins from the proteins extracted from the interested tissue . in general many aspects have still to be further studied . first for many detected proteins with different pi/mw their post translational modification can be further identified by esi _METHOD_ _METHOD_ and also to presume their molecular meanings . for those proteins that do not have the rna binding domain we can try to find the patterns to combine rna . also we can isolate rna in virtue of other poly nucleotides such as random poly nucleotide . all the work above will help us further understanding of the chloroplast rna and related life mechanism .
dry mature arabidopsis seeds were soaked in double distilled at for days before being transferred onto solid murashige skoog _METHOD_ medium and being incubated at constant temperature with a light regimen of h for a total of days to obtain green seedlings . collect the leaves . m mannitol mm hepes and were turned to mushy to clear away the cell debris . density gradient centrifugation was used first at for min and then at for min . the precipitation were mixed with mcb i buffer then put percoll on the upper solution carefully and centrifuged at for min . bottle green layer was extracted and centrifuged with the same volume mcb i buffer at for min then discard the supernatant . the intact chloroplast was extracted after ml mcb ii added to the precipitation . the intact chloroplast was mixed with triplicate volume protein extraction buffer a and centrifuged at for h after precipitated at for h. pellets were drained by vacuum centrifugation and dissolved in buffer b chloamidopropyl chaps mm dithiothreltol pharmalyte and proteinase inhibitor at for h before centrifuged at for h. the total protein content of the sample was quantified using a d quant kit . all the centrifuge processes were working at . immobiline linear drystrips were run at v for h v for h v for h v for h v for h v for h and v for h using hydration buffer containing v/v ipg buffer . _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ was performed using polyacrylamide gels without a stacking gel . gels were stained with _METHOD_ brilliant blue r or silver according to the protocol of shevchenko et al . images of the gels were scanned by uniscan and analyzed using the imagemaster d elite . in order to obtain reliable results from d images protein samples were always prepared in triplicates . each protein sample was analyzed after silver staining for quantitative purpose and cbb stained for successive enzymatic digestion of protein spots and maldi tof _METHOD_ identification . prediction of spot positions was performed using the pi/mw program . the affinity column was packed and washed before proteins were eluted following a previously described protocol . the binding medium was equilibrated in buffer a for min . the eluents were concentrated to about mg/ml and were cleaned up with the d clean up kit before being used for de separation . all subsequent treatments and _METHOD_ spectrometric analysis were performed as reported in . pmfs of the protein spots were obtained by using maldi tof _METHOD_ and polypeptides were identified by using the mascot search engine .
