comparative proteomic analysis of chloroplast by has received significant attention in recent years . however the complication of _LOCATION_ _METHOD_ in chloroplast made it _PROTEIN_ to elucidate entire chloroplast proteome by . here we developed an efficient method for extracting chloroplast proteins and produced excellent profiles from both arabidopsis thaliana and salicornia europaea . comparison of this method with another two protocols for the extraction of a. thaliana chloroplast proteins showed that our method obtained higher protein yields and produced more protein spots on both ph and gels . moreover this method recovered more proteins in the basic and high mr regions thereby offering the best extraction of chloroplast proteins . identification of specific proteins on our gels by _METHOD_ revealed that this method was compatible with _METHOD_ and recovered more chloroplast _LOCATION_ proteins than the commonly used methods . this protocol is expected to have a wide application in future chloroplast proteomic analysis .
a principal criterion for organelle proteome is the purity of the compartment to be analyzed . indeed the subcellular proteome integrity largely depended on how we can purify the isolated compartment away from other cellular contaminants . in this study the chloroplasts were isolated from shoots of s. europaea according to a modified version as described by kleffmann and et al citation . the integrity of the isolated chloroplasts was subsequently analyzed by a microscope . the s. europaea chloroplast showed spindle shape with an average diameter of approximately . almost no broken chloroplasts were observed . contamination with proteins was monitored by measuring the activity of catalase enzyme as an indirect _LOCATION_ marker in the chloroplast fraction . the crude extracts showed high catalase activity whereas the purified chloroplast fraction did not show any significant catalase activity . these results altogether suggest that the isolated chloroplasts were highly purified and had no appreciable level of other cytoplasmic contamination . protein sample preparation is a critical step for . due to the high content of _LOCATION_ proteins that are hard to solubilize it is difficult to study entire chloroplast proteome by global approaches citation . until now there has been no specifically devised method to isolate total proteins from chloroplasts . here we devised a chloroplast total protein extraction method optimized from the _PROTEIN_ method citation with the following modifications optimizing the buffer/sample ratio . in _PROTEIN_ method g plant material was resuspended in ml extraction buffer . however if the buffer/sample ratio in _PROTEIN_ method was applied to chloroplasts the protein yield will reduce sharply because of insufficient extraction . in our cases g of s. europaea shoots could yield g fresh weight purified chloroplasts . about g fw chloroplasts were resuspended in ml extraction buffer and produced mg chloroplast proteins . vortexing the chloroplast sample in the extraction buffer instead of grinding to avoid sample loss . intensifying the rinsing step of the protein pellets with acetone to completely remove the chlorophyll which is normally at very high concentration in chloroplast samples . to better evaluate our method we further compared two commonly used protocols for total chloroplast proteins preparation named as protocol b citation and protocol c citation with our method by _PROTEIN_ . in protocol b chloroplast proteins were directly extracted by chaps buffer citation whereas in protocol c chloroplast proteins were prepared by tca precipitation followed by washing with acetone citation . on the gel protein bands were distinct at both higher and lower mr regions of the gels for all protocols . however several protein bands as indicated by a rectangle box were less visible in protocol b compared with protocol a which indicated insufficient protein extraction of protocol b . it was observed that protocol c showed minor smearing at the high mr region indicating interfering substances in these proteins whereas protocol a produced protein bands with clear background . however these extraction methods were inadequate to be evaluated just by _PROTEIN_ which need to be further tested by . nevertheless these above results revealed to some extent that our method was more efficient for chloroplast proteins isolation . the proteins extracted by our method were then applied to using ph ipg strips for further analysis . resolved chloroplast proteins were well displayed on gels . individual protein spots were easily identified with a broad distribution on both dimensions and showed little streaks on both horizontal and vertical dimensions . computational analysis of the gels revealed repeatable protein spots for chloroplasts of s. europaea . these results proved that our method could efficiently extract chloroplast proteins for . the above results revealed that our method could efficiently extract chloroplast proteins from s. europaea . this method was further applied to the model plant a. thaliana to confirm its efficiency . as a model plant with so much information a. thaliana drew wide attentions on proteomic research including chloroplast proteomics at different levels citation citation citation citation citation . in this study we isolated the chloroplasts from a. thaliana and determined the purity by measuring the activity of catalase . then we used the three protocols to better evaluate which one is suitable for chloroplast proteins extraction . at first we compared the protein yields for chloroplasts of a. thaliana by the three protocols as listed in table . the protein yield was defined as the protein quantity extracted from chloroplasts that were isolated from g of a. thaliana leaves . it is especially important to have high protein yield when the study material is limited such as chloroplasts that have to be isolated from large amount of green plant tissues . protocol a showed the highest performance which produced about mg chloroplast protein from g fresh leaves . interestingly the results demonstrated that our method produced higher protein yield than that generated using tca methods when extracting chloroplast proteins which was consistent with the previous studies taking plant tissues as materials citation citation citation . to further compare their performance equal amounts of proteins extracted by different procedures were applied to analysis with the ph and strips respectively . after that the total number of protein spots was analyzed which is listed in table . much more protein spots were produced by our protocol . this result revealed that the high protein yield of protocol a might be attributed to efficient extraction of more kinds of proteins except for increasing solubility of certain proteins . additionally we compared the global patterns of the proteins extracted by different protocols . for protocol a b and c the global patterns were similar to each other because of the same origin of protein samples . however among the three protocols protocol b gave the poorest performance with less spot number protein aggregation on the ph gels and horizontal streaking on the ph gels indicating insufficient ief for the protein sample which might be due to interfering substances . in _PROTEIN_ protocol b utilized a zwitterionic detergent chaps which could increase solubility of _LOCATION_ proteins for chloroplast proteins extraction . however the direct use of chaps for protein extraction could not efficiently disassociate lipid protein interaction . furthermore pigments such as chlorophyll which were at high levels in chloroplasts could not be completely removed in protocol b thus disrupting ief process . protocol a and c showed minor horizontal streaks on the ph and ph gels indicating that the ief process was complete . nevertheless substantial qualitative differences were observed in the spot patterns among gels of the three protocols as highlighted by rectangular boxes in fig . . as seen in the selected area on ph gels protocol a generated gels showing more protein spots in the basic region than those obtained by protocols b and c. it is generally believed that many _LOCATION_ proteins are hydrophobic and located within the basic pi range of the patterns citation citation . certain loss of hydrophobic proteins on gels may also be attributed to their tendency to aggregate and precipitate in aqueous media . in our extraction method the high recovery of basic region proteins might be attributed to the following _PROTEIN_ . for one thing the aqueous resuspension buffer that was directly added to chloroplast pellet lysed the chloroplasts efficiently and disassociated the _LOCATION_ protein by breaking lipid protein interactions . for another phenol which serves as a strong solvent for proteins lipids and pigments was added and can efficiently dissolve _LOCATION_ proteins . finally the proteins in phenol were precipitated by ammonium methanol whereas both lipids and pigments which can strongly interfere with ief were not precipitated citation . furthermore as shown in fig . protocol a generated ph gels that displayed more spots in the high mr than those produced by protocols b and c. similar results were also observed in former studies on plant tissues when comparing the protein extraction efficiency between method and tca/acetone precipitation method citation citation . the less protein spots with high mr extracted by protocol c might be due to the difficulty for proteins to redissolve as conformed by several studies citation citation citation citation . however several protein spots of low mr on the gels generated by protocol a were observed to be high abundance for protocol c which were consistent with the previous findings indicating that some large proteins were lost while some small proteins were enriched in the tca extracts citation citation . taken together these results allowed us to conclude that our method could extract chloroplast proteins for a. thaliana as well as s. europaea . proteins extracted from the chloroplast of a. thaliana by our method revealed that many additional protein spots were visible on gel compared with protocols b and c. to get more insight into the specific individual proteins presented specific protein spots indicated by arrows and marked with numbers in the magnified regions were excised digested by trypsin and analyzed by _METHOD_ all of these proteins were successfully identified and their detailed information is summarized in table . the identified proteins were first analyzed by the prediction tool targetp to predict their subcellular location citation . all the proteins were predicted to localize to chloroplast or encode by chloroplast chromosome . however targetp is just a bioinformatics tool that might fail to identify real chloroplast proteins citation . furthermore we searched _PROTEIN_ which provides the most comprehensive experimentally chloroplast proteome so far citation . as expected every identified protein was found to be incorporated in the a. thaliana _LOCATION_ proteome database which confirmed all the identified proteins as and in turn further verified the purity of isolated chloroplasts . in order to investigate solubilization abilities of the identified proteins we calculated the _PROTEIN_ score that reflect the overall hydropathicity of a protein sequence citation which ranged from to . then we applied tmhmm to predict the number of transmembrane domains of the proteins citation which could serve as a supplemental tool for _PROTEIN_ score to protein hydropathicity prediction . in total two proteins _PROTEIN_ and protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase c _PROTEIN_ representing three spots on the gel which bear relatively high _PROTEIN_ scores were positively predicted to have one transmembrane domain . to better understand the solubilization nature of the proteins we further searched the _PROTEIN_ and tair for subcellular location of identified proteins based on previously experimental data . among the identified nine proteins that represent protein spots on the gels _PROTEIN_ was found to be _LOCATION_ integral _LOCATION_ proteins whereas geranylgeranyl reductase protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase b _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ _LOCATION_ were experimentally proved to be _LOCATION_ peripheral proteins which may sometimes also be detected in the _LOCATION_ stroma or lumen . the above results proved that our method could extract _LOCATION_ proteins from chloroplast at a relatively high efficiency . all the chosen proteins were successfully identified which indicated that our protein extract method was compatible with _METHOD_ analysis . moreover all the identified proteins had been proven to be by targetp and previously documented experimental results in _PROTEIN_ . as was expected among the nine protein spots selected in the basic region of the ph gels eight spots were identified as _LOCATION_ proteins and one as a ribosomal protein . this result was consistent with our notion that the method could produce more _LOCATION_ proteins of chloroplast in addition to the general extracted proteins . it was worth noting that four groups of spots which share the same mr but different pis were identified as the same protein _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ . it is well known that _PROTEIN_ cause large change in pi which made the protein to migrate differently in either or both dimensions citation . hence we may cautiously deduce that these proteins are _METHOD_ which are caused by _PROTEIN_ . very recently a analysis of a. thaliana chloroplast proteins by nano and nano _METHOD_ identified proteins which provided the most comprehensive chloroplast proteome analysis to date citation . these identified proteins are far beyond the coverage of gel which has limitations to display proteins . however coupled _METHOD_ would still be a powerful tool for chloroplast proteomic analysis not only because the abundance change of one protein could easily be detected by monitoring the variation of vol especially when we need to do comparative proteomic research but also as it can be a better choice for detecting _PROTEIN_ proteins that display similar mr or pi on gel .
seeds of s. europaea collected from coastal areas in dafeng city jiangsu province of china were sown on vermiculite damped with tap water . after germination seedlings were grown in a greenhouse _PROTEIN_ at a thermo period of photoperiod h and a relative humidity . seedlings were irrigated weekly with hoagland nutrient solution . thirty days after sowing these plants were then watered in the morning with hoagland solution containing mm nacl with intervals to _PROTEIN_ their optimal growth . fifty days _PROTEIN_ the plants were harvested for chloroplast isolation . seeds of a. thaliana ecotype columbia were sown on soil pot and grown in fully automated growth chambers with a h light/dark cycle at in humidity . the seedlings were watered at intervals . seven weeks after sowing leaves of these seedlings were harvested for chloroplast isolation . acrylamide bisacrylamide polyvinylpolypyrrolidone standard molecular weight and carrier ampholyte were _PROTEIN_ from sigma . _PROTEIN_ temed ammonium sulfate sorbitol and dtt were from amresco and all other chemicals were from ge healthcare . water was used to prepare all solutions . the light microscope was from leica . ettan ipgphor and ettan _PROTEIN_ system were _PROTEIN_ from ge healthcare . the gels were scanned by umax powerlook . the centrifugation was carried out in sorvall _PROTEIN_ stratos . chloroplasts were isolated from a. thaliana and s. europaea following a modified protocol described by kleffmann et al . citation . each isolation step was performed at . twenty _METHOD_ of s. europaea shoots and g of a. thaliana leaves were harvested and homogenized with mortar and pistil in extraction buffer containing m sorbitol mm mm hepes/koh mm edta and polyvinylpolypyrrolidone . the homogenate was filtered through eight layers of muslin . homogenization and filtration were repeated twice . after that the suspension containing chloroplasts was sedimented by centrifugation at for min . subsequently the pellets containing the chloroplasts were carefully resuspended in ml isolation buffer containing m sorbitol mm mm hepes/koh and mm edta . the above resuspended material was then loaded on top of a percoll step gradient developed with ml of ml of and ml of percoll in isolation buffer and centrifuged at for min . intact chloroplasts were collected from the interphase between and percoll washed twice with isolation buffer and then directly applied to protein extraction or stored at . the purified chloroplasts were visualized under a leica dmln light microscope . the catalase enzyme assay was performed by following the method described by pandey and citation . in brief the soluble proteins of the crude extracts and the chloroplasts were extracted by mm potassium phosphate buffer . the protein concentrations were then determined by following the bradford method citation using bsa as standard . the reaction mixture was prepared by adding of protein extract containing equal amount of proteins to of mm potassium phosphate buffer . the reaction was started by addition of of and the _PROTEIN_ in absorbance at nm was followed for min . baseline correction was carried out by subtracting the absorbance taken without addition of . the assay was done in triplicate and the absorbance values were plotted against time . the chloroplast protein extraction procedure was modified from the _PROTEIN_ method citation . in short ml resuspension buffer containing mm tris mm edta mm borax mm vitamin c triton and sucrose was directly added to the chloroplast pellets purified from g plant materials . after the sample was vortexed in resuspension buffer for min at room temperature an equal volume of phenol was added and then the mixture was further vortexed for min . after centrifugation the upper phenol phase was transferred to a new centrifuge tube . proteins were precipitated by adding five volumes of ammonium methanol and incubated at for at least h. after centrifugation the protein pellets were resuspended and rinsed with methanol once followed by acetone three times after each washing protein pellets were centrifuged at for min at and then the supernatant was carefully decanted . finally the washed pellets were and ready for use . two other protocols for extracting chloroplast proteins were compared with the above method . protocol b was described by phee et al . citation with minor modifications . in brief ml solubilization buffer _METHOD_ was added to the frozen chloroplast pellets purified from g of a. thaliana leaves . then the mixture was vortexed for at least min and incubated on ice for h followed by centrifugation . after that four volumes of acetone were added into the supernatant to precipitate proteins . the protein pellets were resuspended and rinsed with acetone . finally the washed pellets were and ready for use . protocol c was described by lonosky et al . citation . in short chloroplast pellets extracted from g of a. thaliana leaves were suspended in ml resuspension buffer _METHOD_ and proteins were precipitated using w/v trichloroacetic acid and then washed twice with cold acetone . samples were and ready for use . the protein pellets were resuspended with the lysis buffer _METHOD_ and vortexed s with intervals during the incubation at room temperature . after centrifugation at for min protein concentration was determined following the bradford method citation . bsa was used as the standard . the calibration curve was constructed using bsa solution with a concentration from to mg/ml . the sample containing about and total proteins was subsequently loaded onto an ipg strip holder with cm ph and linear gradient ipg strips respectively and rehydrated for h at room temperature . then focusing was performed on the ipgphor apparatus under the following conditions v for h v for h v for h v for h a gradient to v for h and v up to vh for the ph strips and vh for the ph strips . after ief these strips were equilibrated with equilibration solution _PROTEIN_ containing dtt for min and subsequently with equilibration solution containing iodoacetamide for another min . the separation of proteins in the second dimension was performed on an ettan _PROTEIN_ system w for min and w for h for every strip at a constant temperature of . followed by the electrophoresis the gels were visualized by a modified cbb staining protocol citation . the gels were fixed for h in a fixing solution and then put into the sensitization solution and stirred for an additional h. after that the gels were placed into staining solution and stirred for more than h. for destaining the gels were transferred to solution i and stirred for h and then into the solution ii until the background was clear . the gels were scanned by umax powerlook at a resolution of dpi and grayscale pixel depth and image analysis was performed with image master platinum software version following user 's manual . the protein spots were quantified using the percentage of spot volume criterion . all different selected spots were manually excised from the gels of a. thaliana chloroplast proteins . digestion and _METHOD_ acquisition were performed as described previously citation . the pmfs were searched against the ncbinr protein databases using the mascot version search engine _PROTEIN_ . the taxonomic category was a. thaliana . the identification was based on the combination of a mascot score higher than maximum peptide coverage and additional experimental pi and mr of the protein spots on the gels . predictions for protein subcellular locations were realized by using the targetp software citation . predictions for _LOCATION_ spanning regions were realized by using the transmembrane hidden markov model software citation . the overall hydropathicity of a protein sequence was reflected by grand average of hydropathicity index _PROTEIN_ citation _METHOD_ . the experimental chloroplast proteome data including curated subcellular localizations were obtained from the plant proteome database _PROTEIN_ citation .
