the gene family in arabidopsis thaliana belongs to the superfamily of cora alr type _LOCATION_ proteins . proteins of this type are characterized by a gmn tripeptide motif at the end of the first of two c terminal transmembrane domains and have been characterized as magnesium transporters . using the recently established mag fura system allowing direct measurement of uptake into mitochondria of saccharomyces cerevisiae we find that all members of the arabidopsis family complement the corresponding yeast mutant . highly different patterns of tissue specific _PROTEIN_ were observed for the family members in planta . six of them are _PROTEIN_ in root tissues indicating a possible involvement in plant magnesium supply and distribution after uptake from the soil substrate . homozygous t dna insertion knockout lines were obtained for four members of the gene family . a strong magnesium dependent phenotype of growth retardation was found for when concentrations were lowered to in hydroponic cultures . ectopic overexpression of from the cauliflower mosaic virus promoter results in complementation and increased _METHOD_ accumulation . green _METHOD_ protein reporter gene fusions indicate a location of in the endomembrane system . hence contrary to what is frequently found in analyses of plant gene families a single gene family member knockout results in a strong environmentally dependent phenotype .
the arabidopsis gene family was originally described as encompassing genomic loci including one presumptive pseudogene . a nearly simultaneous report of the gene family introduced the alternative mgt nomenclature and left the pseudogene unaccounted for but added a member with more distant similarity _PROTEIN_ now also referred to as . the complete rice genome sequence allows comparative inferences concerning differential diversification of the gene family in this monocot compared with the dicot arabidopsis . the members of the at gene family have their counterparts in nine proteins encoded in the genome of rice . five clades of arabidopsis genes were observed and for these we here suggest labels a through e with characteristic intron insertion sites for each type of gene . we found that all introns in are unique to clade a as can be inferred from different intron phases of closely spaced introns for which we suggest a nomenclature . only clades b through e share three ancient introns in phase which are occasionally lost _PROTEIN_ in evolution of the gene family . given that the founding member of the arabidopsis gene family was initially characterized by its ability to complement the yeast mutant when targeted to mitochondria we reasoned that other members of the gene family would behave similarly if possibly to differing degrees . accordingly we have now cloned a series of constructs containing the core coding regions of all genes . these constructs were fused to the yeast mitochondrial targeting sequence and are driven from the native yeast promoter in the vector . complementation of the respiratory deficiency is easily monitored by restoration of the growth defect on nonfermentable medium with glycerol as the _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ source . growth of yeast transformants containing arabidopsis constructs was indistinguishable from growth of the yeast mutant transformed with the native coding sequence or the empty vector on nonselective ypd medium indicating that these constructs do not interfere with yeast metabolism . we found that members of the gene family were able to complement the phenotype to similar degrees . reconstituted growth to the highest level among the arabidopsis proteins but was clearly less efficient compared with wild type . the molecular analysis of complementation using showed that splicing of mitochondrial group ii introns was restored . this phenomenon is now known to be an indirect effect through providing appropriate levels for group ii intron ribozyme function in the yeast mitochondria . an indication for a direct involvement of in mitochondrial uptake however had been obtained through measurements of mitochondrial magnesium content which reached nearly the wild type level upon complementing the yeast mutant . in the meantime a system for direct uptake measurements in yeast mitochondria has been developed using the _METHOD_ dye mag fura allowing a more direct confirmation of transport over biological _LOCATION_ in real time has been set up . mag fura is a uv excitable dependent _METHOD_ indicator that undergoes a blue shift from to nm upon binding . accordingly mitochondria were isolated from all yeast strains transformed with the arabidopsis constructs to measure the magnesium uptake levels after external application of increasing concentrations in mag fura loaded mitochondria . uptake was indeed measurable for all constructs to different extents confirming their role as proteins mediating magnesium transport . representative uptake recordings are shown in figure . high magnesium uptake efficiencies were observed for and whereas the other proteins proved somewhat less efficient uptake . a discrepancy was observed for which appeared to complement well in the growth assay but showed magnesium uptake that was not considerably higher than the background mutant level . possibly acts as a comparatively slow transporter for _LOCATION_ allowing for ion homeostasis over periods of hours as in the growth assays but not in measurable amounts over shorter time intervals such as minutes as in the uptake experiments . to address their potential differential functions in planta the upstream regions of all genes were fused to the gus reporter gene to investigate the tissue specificities of their promoters . we chose to clone > bp of upstream noncoding regions including the first coding exon of the genes as translational fusions in front of gus to maximize the inclusions of targets for regulatory influence on gene _PROTEIN_ . highly different tissue specific patterns of gene _PROTEIN_ during development were observed for the members of the gene family . several genes showed _PROTEIN_ already at very early developmental stages of the seedlings . nearly ubiquitous _PROTEIN_ was observed in d old seedlings of and while _PROTEIN_ was restricted to the radicle excluding the tip in the case of . summary of gene activities as determined from gus activities in transgenic promoter gus fusion lines _PROTEIN_ of other genes began somewhat _PROTEIN_ in development interestingly with additional strong _PROTEIN_ in the meristematic zone and in the hypocotyl . likewise _PROTEIN_ of was strictly restricted to the central cylinder and the veins at the early seedling stage . the absence of _PROTEIN_ in the root tip similar to was merely complementary to the more widespread _PROTEIN_ of in the different tissues of the root most dominantly in the root tip . in the photosynthetic organs the early ubiquitous _PROTEIN_ of and became more localized to the vascular tissues of the expanded cotyledons during development notably with a strong focus of gene _PROTEIN_ in the early development of the first postcotyledon leaf pair . this contrasted the highly localized _PROTEIN_ of in the hydathodes of the cotyledons and the epicotyl . whereas _PROTEIN_ of was entirely restricted to the root at the seedling stage a completely contrasting picture was observed for and with strong _PROTEIN_ in photosynthetic tissues from the earliest stages of cotyledon development onwards . a unique particularity of was its pronounced _PROTEIN_ in stomata guard cells . _PROTEIN_ of in aboveground organs continued through plant development and the sepals of the developing flower . in strong contrast _PROTEIN_ of the phylogenetically related gene was particularly restricted and could only be observed in pollen grains . complementary gene activities in the male flower parts were observed in the filaments for and . _PROTEIN_ in the maturing seeds was observed for . at _PROTEIN_ stages of development pronounced gene activity was seen for in the style and coat of the silique . particularly strong overall gene _PROTEIN_ was again observed for at an early stage of silique development with the exception of the stigma . _PROTEIN_ in the fully developed silique gene _PROTEIN_ was restricted to the abscission zone as also observed for . the focus of _PROTEIN_ in vascular tissue in early stages of development continued _PROTEIN_ through development as for example in the veins during early bud development . observation of shoot cross sections after xylem counterstaining with safranin demonstrated _PROTEIN_ in the phloem . phylogenetically very close to interestingly showed a very cell type specific _PROTEIN_ not only in early stages of development but also a pronounced _PROTEIN_ in trichomes . publicly available microarray data so far give no indication for environmental regulation of the genes and similarly we could not observe any obvious variability in gene _PROTEIN_ when the gus lines were grown on different magnesium concentrations in hydroponic culture _METHOD_ . to address the issue of potential magnesium dependent gene regulation yet more explicitly we performed rt pcr analyses using arabidopsis plantlets raised on or to detect potential changes in transcript amounts . no evidence for magnesium dependent regulation for any of the genes was observed . to further address the function of proteins in planta we searched for gene specific inactivation lines to investigate mutant phenotypes . candidates for transgenic arabidopsis lines with t dna insertions in members of the gene family and potentially affecting the respective gene functions were identified in the salk collections for all genes except . seeds for all insertion lines except those of the pseudogenes and were ordered and the progeny were investigated to first verify the genomic insertion through a pcr based strategy . subsequently we tried to raise homozygous insertion lines and confirm the knockout of transcription . among the insertion lines one could not be verified as harboring the insertion and among the remaining lines five could only be obtained in the heterozygous state . a transcriptional knockout was not observed for any of the other lines having insertions outside of the coding regions but could be confirmed for a total of six lines with insertions within the coding regions of four genes in the family one each for and and three independent ko lines for . furthermore double ko mutant lines of and could be obtained via crossing and screening for progeny homozygous in both insertion alleles . all six single gene ko lines and the two double ko lines and appeared fully vital without obvious phenotypes under standard growth conditions and went through a normal reproductive cycle initially suggesting strong genetic redundancy in the gene family or its subclades respectively . to explore the possibility that a certain related phenotype may be seen only in conditions of stress we set up two different culture _METHOD_ a hydroponic and a liquid culture system . for the hydroponic culture system we allowed plants to complete their life cycle under defined growth conditions . we found that wild type arabidopsis tolerates the full range of concentrations between and mm under the otherwise unaltered ion concentrations of the siegenthaler culture medium . hence concentrations ranging between micro and millimolar levels were used to scan for dependent phenotypes among the t dna insertion lines . while the knockout lines and and the double knockouts and remained as unaffected by the varying concentrations as the wild type a striking phenotype was observed for the knockout line . plantlets were severely retarded in development under . raising the concentrations to slightly higher levels immediately restored this phenotype practically to wild type growth and the mutant plants remained unaffected by yet higher magnesium concentrations . to exclude that any additional genomic rearrangements were responsible for the low phenotype observed we also investigated the two alternative ko lines in which could also be obtained in the homozygous state . these lines and also carry like the initially characterized mutant t dna insertions in introns of the gene . exactly the same phenotype as for the ko line was observed confirming that inactivity of indeed is the fundamental cause for the low phenotype . to determine whether ko of affects ion homeostasis more globally we used the purdue ionomics service offering comprehensive ion content analyses . for all three independent ko lines no significant imbalances in homeostasis of or any one of other ions were observed under normal growth conditions in the ionomics measurements other than a possible to reduction of k in comparison to the wild type . as no similar phenotypes could be observed for the ko lines and and even for the double ko mutants we tried to investigate potentially more subtle differences in these mutants using a liquid culture system containing murashige and skoog _METHOD_ medium with and of . the liquid media were supplemented with sucrose to allow enhanced seedling growth while any other complex compounds that might contribute spurious amounts of were excluded . additionally a stable transgenic complementation line harboring the coding sequence under control of the constitutive camv promoter within the background was investigated . as observed in the hydroponic culture ko lines and never showed significant differences compared with the wild type under any condition tested . by contrast the ko line failed to germinate under these liquid culture conditions whereas the overexpressing line revealed a strong increase in _METHOD_ production under and a slight increase under compared with wild type seedlings . this germination phenotype of prompted us to reinvestigate the earliest stages of gene _PROTEIN_ . indeed the gus reporter line showed very specific _PROTEIN_ of very early in the quiescent zone of the emerging radicle . this finding is in full accord with the high resolution transcriptional profiling of the arabidopsis root quiescent center . given that a first magnesium related phenotype is now identified in planta for a member of the gene family we wished to determine the subcellular localization of . the full length coding sequence of was cloned as a translational fusion upstream of the green _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ under control of the camv promoter . the construct was used for transient transformation of nicotiana benthamiana leaves via agrobacterium tumefaciens followed by laser scanning confocal _METHOD_ microscopy . _METHOD_ _METHOD_ was observed in the endomembrane system suggesting targeting to the endoplasmatic _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ . as a control experiment we used the _LOCATION_ targeted hdel dsred construct in a cotransformation assay . nearly perfectly overlapping _PROTEIN_ with the _METHOD_ construct was observed .
arabidopsis thaliana ecotype col and t dna insertion lines in genes were obtained from the european arabidopsis stock centre . t dna insertions were confirmed homozygous lines raised and gene knockout on the transcript level was finally confirmed for six lines in four of the genes . additionally two double ko lines were successfully obtained via crossing and . arabidopsis seeds were surface sterilized and sown on _METHOD_ medium supplemented with sucrose mes ph and bacto agar . transgenic plants were selected in the presence of kanamycin . all plants were stratified for d at and grown under h of light photoperiods at and light intensity . hydroponic cultivation of arabidopsis plants was modified using either opaque filter tip containers or the araponics growing system and nutrient solutions with varying concentrations of magnesium . nutrient solutions were replaced every weeks or immediately upon indication of emerging algal growth . liquid cultivation of germinating arabidopsis seeds was done in conical flasks incubated on a rotary shaker at rpm . liquid media were based on _METHOD_ medium mentioned above which was adjusted to different magnesium concentrations . comprehensive ionomics measurements with inductively coupled _LOCATION_ _METHOD_ _METHOD_ were performed using the purdue ionomics information management system . all plasmid constructs were cloned by recombination of pcr products into destination vectors using gateway technology . gus reporter gene constructs comprised the noncoding upstream region and the first exon of each gene cloned in frame upstream of gus into vector . the full length coding sequence was cloned behind the camv promoter in vector for overexpression and upstream of _METHOD_ in translational fusion into vector respectively . agrobacterium tumefaciens strain was transformed with the binary vector constructs and used to transform developing floral tissues of week old arabidopsis plants using the floral dip method . total rnas were prepared from week old arabidopsis plantlets grown in liquid cultures or rosette leafs from adult plants grown on soil using the nucleospin rna plant kit and cdna was synthesized with the transcriptor high fidelity cdna synthesis kit applying anchored oligo primer with equalized amounts of template rna . _PROTEIN_ levels of the target genes were determined after and cycles of gene specific pcr amplification via gel electrophoresis and ethidium bromide staining . to detect gus activity arabidopsis plant samples or entire seedlings were infiltrated with substrate solution _PROTEIN_ at for h . after staining chlorophyll was removed with ethanol at . for sectioning before microscopy plant samples were placed in fixation buffer _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and dehydrated through a dilution series of ethanol incubations up to absolute ethanol . tissues were embedded in spurr low viscosity embedding media and sliced with a microtome . agrobacterium strains containing the _METHOD_ or a hdel dsred construct for _LOCATION_ colocalization studies were grown overnight in ml luria bertani medium containing the appropriate antibiotics at to stationary phase . bacteria were harvested by centrifugation and pellets were resuspended in ml infiltration medium and incubated at for h. the bacterial suspensions were adjusted to an optical density of and coinfiltrated into the abaxial spaces of young but fully expanded leaves of to week old n. benthamiana plants with a needleless syringe . infiltrated leaves were examined after h with an olympus confocal microscope and serial confocal optical sections were taken . images were analyzed using the olympus viewer software . to _PROTEIN_ the arabidopsis proteins in yeast an upstream fragment of the yeast gene encoding the first amino acids for mitochondrial targeting and the native promoter region was amplified by pcr from the plasmid . the amplified fragment was fused to the respective n terminally shortened coding sequences at the first conserved protein motif of the arabidopsis genes with a single hemagglutinin tag at the c termini by overlap extension pcr and cloned into vector . yeast strain dby was transformed using the lioac/ss carrier dna/peg method and trickled in parallel in a fold serial dilution on normal and nonfermentable media to test complementation of the growth defect . magnesium uptake was determined via the _METHOD_ dye mag fura in isolated mitochondria as previously described . accession numbers for protein sequences used for alignment are listed in the following section . arabidopsis and rice sequences were aligned using the clustal algorithm with minor manual adjustments in mega . alignments are provided in supplemental data set online . the protein phylogeny was inferred using the neighbor joining method and poisson corrected amino acid distances with mega with the pairwise deletion option eliminating indels only in pairwise comparisons . node reliability was determined with bootstrap replicates . sequence data from this article can be found in the genbank/embl or arabidopsis genome initiative data libraries under the accession numbers that follow . the following nucleotide sequence accessions were used for cloning of the yeast and the arabidopsis constructs and . the following protein sequence accessions were used for construction of the phylogenetic tree _PROTEIN_ as given in the aramemnon database and . accession numbers for t dna insertion lines are as follows and . the following materials are available in the online version of this article . supplemental figure . alignment of arabidopsis proteins and as representatives of clades a through e. supplemental figure . _PROTEIN_ levels of all functional genes _PROTEIN_ in vegetative tissue in week old plantlets grown in liquid culture on different concentrations . supplemental figure . investigation of transcriptional status for homozygous t dna insertion lines . supplemental figure . ion profiles of the three ko lines in reference to the col wild type background . supplemental table . list of arabidopsis t dna insertion lines investigated in the course of this study . supplemental data set . text file of the alignment used for the phylogenetic analysis shown in figure .
