two _PROTEIN_ disproportionating enzyme and disproportionating enzyme were repressed using rna interference technology in potato leading to plants repressed in either isoform individually or both simultaneously . this is the first detailed report of their combined repression . plants lacking accumulated slightly more starch in their leaves than control plants and high levels of maltotriose while those lacking contained maltose and large amounts of starch . plants repressed in both _METHOD_ accumulated similar amounts of starch to those lacking . in addition they contained a range of malto oligosaccharides from maltose to maltoheptaose . plants repressed in both _METHOD_ had chlorotic leaves and did not grow as well as either the controls or lines where only one of the _METHOD_ was repressed . examination of photosynthetic parameters suggested that this was most likely due to a _PROTEIN_ in _PROTEIN_ assimilation . the subcellular localisation of was re addressed in parallel with _PROTEIN_ from arabidopsis thaliana by transient _PROTEIN_ of yellow _METHOD_ protein fusions in tobacco . no translocation to the chloroplasts was observed for any of the fusion proteins supporting a _LOCATION_ role of the enzyme in leaf starch metabolism as has been observed for arabidopsis _PROTEIN_ . it is concluded that and have individual essential roles in starch metabolism in potato and consequently repression of these disables regulation of leaf malto oligosaccharides starch content and photosynthetic activity and thereby plant growth possibly by a negative feedback mechanism .
potato plants repressed both in and in were produced by introducing an rnai construct designed to repress into potato lines repressed in . in addition plants lacking only were produced utilising the same construct . lines were selected based on reduction of activity in crude leaf extracts using maltotriose as a substrate . a total of four lines were selected where both and were repressed and named lines to . the background of lines and is the line while and are in the background . in these lines the maximal reduction obtained in activity was at most down to of the activity in the respective parental lines . two lines exclusively down regulated in activity were also selected and named and . only of the parental wild type activity was measured in these lines . immunoblot analysis was used to check if the transformation event had any effect on the amount of protein . all rnai lines lacked the kda band corresponding to in leaves while the rnai lines had none or very small reductions of protein compared with the untransformed control . as a check for pleiotropic effects related to enzyme activities involved in starch degradation the activities of and amylases as well as starch phosphorylase were determined . the activity of amylase was unchanged in all lines whereas amylase activity was increased in lines lacking either or but not those where both enzymes were repressed . the total starch phosphorylase activity was significantly increased in some of the transgenic lines but not consistently so . in addition activity gels stained for starch phosphorylase activity did not demonstrate consistent alterations in activities of specific _METHOD_ in the transgenic lines . the contents of soluble sugars mos and starch were measured in leaves of and month old plants during a day/night cycle with leaf samples taken every h . for clarity only one representative of each transformation type is shown but similar results were obtained for all genotypically identical lines . like the wild type control all month old plants of the repression lines demonstrated a pattern of starch accumulation during the light followed by a subsequent degradation in the dark . the plants lacking had the highest accumulation of starch during the day approximately nmol _PROTEIN_ equivalents . plants repressed both in and in had starch contents with maximum at nmol _PROTEIN_ equivalents compared to nmol _PROTEIN_ equivalents in the wild type and single repression line . at the onset of the day the amount of starch was twofold higher in the lines where both enzymes were repressed in comparison with wild type and the single repression line . during the light period lines lacking both and accumulated more starch than the wild type and during the dark period starch was degraded at a lower rate than in the wild type and the single repression line . notably the starch content in the single repression line was similar to the double repression line and even higher in the dark . a similar pattern was found in the month old plants and at this stage the diurnal cycle of starch accumulation and degradation was disrupted in all transgenic lines . starch content was around three times higher in the lines repressed in both and compared to wild type . the single repression line contained roughly twice as much starch as the wild type . again the single repression line had the highest starch content approximately four times higher than wild type . mos contents were determined from the supernatants of the above mentioned leaf extracts . at the beginning of the light period the plants repressed in both _METHOD_ and the single repression lines contained around fourfold higher levels of mos when compared to wild type and the single repression lines . during the light period the mos contents in the double repression lines were comparable to wild type and the single repression line . the mos content in the single repression lines was slightly higher than in the other lines during the light period . the largest differences between the lines were again found in month old plants . in lines where both enzymes were repressed the mos content was significantly different from the other lines being about tenfold higher than wild type and fivefold higher than the plants lacking only one of the enzymes . in addition the types of mos that accumulated in the transgenic lines were examined and it was found that plants lacking accumulated a series of mos with maltotriose being the smallest while plants lacking only accumulated maltose . the double repression lines accumulated various mos from maltose to maltoheptaose with maltose and maltotriose being the most prevalent . the content of _PROTEIN_ fructose and sucrose were determined in all leaf samples of the time course analysis . in month old plants the _PROTEIN_ and fructose contents were increased in all repression lines compared to wild type especially during the light period . however the double repression lines had a constantly higher content of both hexoses during the night when that of both single repression lines dropped to wild type levels . the sucrose content in the month old double repression lines was similar to wild type whereas the content in the single repression lines was up to twofold higher during the light period . in month old plants higher levels of hexoses in the double repression lines were evident when compared to young plants . during the day the _PROTEIN_ levels increased to nmol compared to the wild type nmol and fructose levels were nmol compared to nmol . the _PROTEIN_ and fructose content in the single repression lines were slightly higher than wild type . the sucrose content was lower in the double repression lines compared to all other lines . during the entire growth period it was noted that only lines repressed both in and in were retarded in growth . furthermore these plants were more chlorotic than all other lines due to a significantly lower total amount of chlorophyll a and b . the chl a/b ratio in the double repression lines was similar to wild type . the lower amount of chlorophyll was accompanied by a reduction in photosystem i and in particular photosystem ii complexes in the leaf . this was observed by immuno quantification from a blot where leaf extracts were loaded in equal amounts according to chlorophyll content or fresh weight . this down regulation of psi and psii was also evident in immunoblots from leaves of and month old plants . in contrast both psi and psii protein levels in lines repressed in either or appeared higher than in wild type though this was not supported by a higher chlorophyll level . this observation prompted an investigation of whether the potato transformants exhibiting reduced levels of stdpes had altered photosynthetic activity . comparison of the reduction state of qa non photochemical quenching and the quantum yield of psii photochemistry in and month old plants were studied by chlorophyll a _METHOD_ measurements . data from month old plants are presented in table . none of the _METHOD_ data showed significant differences between transgenic lines and wild type controls . similar observations were made in and month old plants . as a significant reduction of psii complexes in the leaves of the double repression lines was observed the quantum yield of psii photochemistry was measured in the lines analysed in fig . by another approach using a portable fluorometer . only one of the double repression lines showed a significant reduction in psii quantum yield . finally the double repression lines had a significantly lower _PROTEIN_ assimilation rate . it was examined whether the alteration in leaf contents of free sugars observed in the double repression lines affected the tuber yield of the plants . tubers were harvested and weighed after months of growth in pots of five individual plants . three out of the four lines where both and were repressed demonstrated significantly reduced yield in comparison with both wild type and lines where only one of the enzymes were repressed . similar results were obtained with a second batch of plants . the subcellular localisation of was investigated in parallel with by generating c terminally truncated versions of aa and aa from and respectively based on alignment of the two sequences . the truncated constructs as well as the full length coding regions were fused to yellow _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ at the c terminal end and analysed by transient _PROTEIN_ in tobacco leaf mesophyll cells and confocal laser scanning microscopy _PROTEIN_ . the two constructs containing the full length and did not reveal any visible _METHOD_ . the truncated versions were both clearly localised outside the chloroplasts . _METHOD_ alone and an _PROTEIN_ water dikinase from arabidopsis were used as controls for _LOCATION_ and chloroplastic localisation respectively . to verify that the location was not due to proteolytic breakdown of the fusion proteins immunoblotting was performed using a green _METHOD_ protein antibody . fusion proteins of both and showed bands of the correct size with little or no degradation visible suggesting that the observed _LOCATION_ localisation of the fusion proteins was not due to loss of the targeting signal .
a potato cdna coding for was identified previously . two primers were used to amplify a fragment of the cdna flanked by and sites . the pcr product was recombined into the _GENE_ vector using _PROTEIN_ clonase according to the manufacturer s instructions . agrobacterium mediated plant transformation was used to transform this construct into either wild type potato cv desiree or two lines which had already been transformed with a construct designed to repress . all the transgenic lines can be obtained from andreas blennow now email abl life.ku.dk . transformants in wild type were selected on media containing kanamycin while those previously transformed with the construct repressing were selected on both hygromycin and kanamycin . as much as transformed plants of each line were transferred to soil and grown in a greenhouse . four weeks after transfer leaf samples were taken protein extracts made and an assay specific for _PROTEIN_ was used to identify transformants with repressed _PROTEIN_ of . plants were transferred from tissue culture to soil and batches were grown in a greenhouse with a h h dark regime day night photons in pots of cm in diameter containing a mixture of peat vermiculite . two batches were also grown in a growth chamber with the above mentioned parameters . protein extracts were made from potato leaves and separated by _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ before being blotted onto _LOCATION_ . the production of the anti antibody used has been described by lloyd et al . . to quantify photosystem i and ii crude protein from mg potato leaves were extracted in mm tris hcl mm edta m nacl mm dtt and _PROTEIN_ incubated at for min followed by centrifugation at for min at room temperature . chlorophyll in the supernatants was measured and protein extract corresponding to chlorophyll was loaded in each lane and separated by _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ before being blotted onto _LOCATION_ . a psi antibody produced in our lab was used to quantify the amount of the psi f protein and a _PROTEIN_ antibody enabled quantification of the protein of psii . both the amount of psi f and _PROTEIN_ have been found to correlate to the total amount of psi and psii complexes . starch sugars and mos were isolated from leaves of potato plants by a combination of the methods described by _PROTEIN_ et al . and critchley et al . . every fourth hour during a diurnal cycle leaf disc samples were taken with a cork borer . only source leaves of comparable size and age were used for the harvest and the same leaves were re sampled from two plants of each line . a total of discs were harvested per line per time point . the frozen leaf discs were separately homogenised at hz for s using steel pearls in a rotanta . after homogenisation m perchloric acid was added . the samples were incubated at for min and centrifuged at for min at . part of the supernatant was adjusted to ph and the content of sugars was determined by the method of nielsen et al . . the remaining supernatant was analysed for mos by adding m koh m mes ph m kcl . the precipitated potassium perchlorate was pelleted at for min at and of the supernatant was added to m mes ph u fructosidase u _PROTEIN_ oxidase u catalase and incubated at for h to remove free sugars . the samples were incubated at for min before was added to of mm sodium acetate containing u maltase and u amyloglucosidase _PROTEIN_ . this was incubated at for h. malto oligosaccharides were determined as _PROTEIN_ equivalents as described for sugars . starch was determined by the method of et al . . malto oligosaccharides were separated and detected by high performance anion exchange chromatography with pulsed amperometric detection _PROTEIN_ as described by blennow et al . . aliquots of the above mentioned mos samples free of sugars were adjusted to ph and was injected on a _PROTEIN_ column . activity gels for starch phosphorylase were run according to nielsen et al . . a mg leaf tissue was extracted in m hepes koh ph mm mm peg mm dtt pvpp . after centrifugation at for min at of the supernatant was mixed with of glycerol bromophenol blue and the enzymes were separated by _PROTEIN_ . separating gels contained polyacrylamide potato amylopectin and mm tris hcl . the gels were run for h at a constant current of ma washed twice in water and incubated in m mes/koh ph mm dtt for min and then overnight in m mes/koh ph soluble starch mm _PROTEIN_ phosphate mm dtt followed by two washes in water for min . the gels were stained with lugol solution ki and diluted times with m hcl . protein extracts from leaf tissues were prepared by homogenisation of mg frozen material in mm hepes koh ph mm mm edta mm dtt mm _METHOD_ and glycerol . the samples were centrifuged for min at and and the supernatant was immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at . the protein content was determined by the method described by bradford . the activity of amylase and amylase was determined using the assay described by scheidig et al . where the degradation of malto oligosaccharides linked to a p nitrophenyl group by a _PROTEIN_ bond at the reducing end was monitored by assay kits . plant extract was mixed with mm mes koh ph mm edta and mercaptoethanol . the assays were started by addition of of the substrate and coupling solution and stopped after min at by adding volumes of trizma base . the activity determined as liberated p nitrophenolate was measured spectrophotometrically at nm . starch phosphorylase activity was determined according to zeeman et al . . to buffer containing mm mops ph mm mm mm nad u phosphoglucomutase u _PROTEIN_ phosphate dehydrogenase and _PROTEIN_ bisphosphate was added protein extract . after incubation at for min buffer containing mg potato amylopectin was added to initiate the phosphorolytic reaction . _PROTEIN_ activity was determined according to takaha et al . . a total of protein extract was added to buffer containing mm mops ph mm maltotriose . assays were stopped after min by boiling for min and the _PROTEIN_ content was determined . chlorophyll a and b was extracted by incubation of leaf pieces of in ml etoh at and determined after the leaves were completely devoid of pigments . chl a and chl b was then measured at wavelengths of and nm by the method of lichtenthaler . for each line three leaf pieces were harvested and pigment concentration was determined as an average of three separate measurements . determination of conventional _METHOD_ parameters were performed with a _PROTEIN_ fluorometer using a standard setup and the quenching coefficients were determined essentially as described by quick and stitt . nonphotochemical quenching was calculated as /f the estimated reduction state of qa as / and the quantum yield of psii photochemistry as /f . the abbreviations f m f o and f s describe the _METHOD_ yield at _METHOD_ maximum _METHOD_ minimum and at steady state respectively . a prime indicates that the parameter is obtained from light _PROTEIN_ samples whereas all other parameters are from dark _PROTEIN_ leaves . four replicas of each plant were used for _METHOD_ measurements and the mean values of two independently grown plant batches were obtained . was also measured by a portable fluorimeter on plants that had been dark _PROTEIN_ for min . five young leaves from two plants per line were analysed . _PROTEIN_ assimilation was analysed by infrared gas analysis using a _PROTEIN_ saturated chamber _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ according to manufacturer descriptions . five leaves from two plants per line were analysed . care was taken only to measure mature source leaves of approximately the same size and age similar to the material used for metabolite measurements . all experiments were performed on two independently grown batches of plants . for tobacco transient _PROTEIN_ the full length orfs as well as fragments corresponding to the n terminal aa and aa of and respectively were pcr amplified using uracil containing primers ggtttaaucctgagttcaaagtctggtctttctc r ggtttaaucctcggtttggcttagtcgagc f ggcttaauatggtgaattcggggttgaagtc r ggtttaaucctgagtttagtatggtctccttctc r ggtttaaucctttgttggagagtccatatt and cloned into the vector _METHOD_ using an improved cloning procedure . constructs were transformed into agrobacterium and transiently _PROTEIN_ by infiltration in nicotiana benthamiana domin as described by voinnet et al . . constructs were analysed by a confocal laser scanning microscope _METHOD_ equipped with a or pl apo water immersion objective . a nm laser line was used for excitation and emission was detected between and nm for _METHOD_ _METHOD_ and and nm for chlorophyll _METHOD_ .
