multiple sclerosis is a demyelinating disease of the central nervous system which only affects humans . this makes it difficult to study at a molecular level and to develop and test potential therapies that may change the course of the disease . the development of therapies to promote remyelination in multiple sclerosis is a key research aim to both aid restoration of electrical impulse conduction in nerves and provide neuroprotection reducing disability in patients . testing a remyelination therapy in the many and various in vivo models of multiple sclerosis is expensive in _METHOD_ of time animals and money . we report the development and characterisation of an ex vivo slice culture system using mouse brain and spinal cord allowing investigation of myelination demyelination and remyelination which can be used as an initial reliable screen to select the most promising remyelination strategies . we have automated the quantification of myelin to provide a high content and moderately high throughput screen for testing therapies for remyelination both by endogenous and exogenous means and as an invaluable way of studying the biology of remyelination .
slices of cerebellum brainstem and spinal cord between and in _PROTEIN_ are taken from postnatal day mice and placed in culture . myelination occurs readily and is extensive by days in vitro . the gliotoxin lysophosphatidyl choline is added at div for h which leads to almost complete demyelination h after lpc is removed . after additional days in culture myelin sheaths reappear in conjunction with contactin associated protein _PROTEIN_ localised at the paranodes around a node suggestive of a mature myelin internode . the angle of cutting the sections is critical and requires sagittal sections to minimise nerve fibre damage . cerebellar slices are much more successful if not detached from the brainstem possibly related to both the _PROTEIN_ connectivity of purkinje cells and the higher concentration of opcs in brainstem than cerebellum . only slices with a _PROTEIN_ neural architecture should be used for reasons of consistency which in our hands amounts to about four cerebellar slices attached to brainstem and three spinal cord slices per mouse . using these criteria for selection of the slices the results are consistent between multiple experiments . the concentration and time of lpc addition is also critical as too high a concentration or too long an application also causes axon degeneration . spinal cord with its densely packed myelin sheaths requires a longer application of lpc before complete demyelination probably due to slower lpc penetration . in _METHOD_ cells at the heart of the demyelinating lesion die activated microglia/macrophages migrate to the lesion to clear this debris opcs migrate to the lesions proliferate and then differentiate to successfully remyelinate the lesion . opcs are present in slice cultures as shown by antibody staining to and are retained after lpc treatment . at div we saw mature oligodendrocytes myelinating axons with clear internodes heminodes and nodes of ranvier flanked by paranodes identified by tightly localised _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ . this is suggestive immunohistochemical evidence that maturation of the myelin sheath occurs with the formation of specialised nodal and paranodal structures . cells with a schwann cell phenotype the effectors of myelination in the peripheral nervous system do not myelinate axons in this system as seen by the absence of staining with a periaxin antibody . activated microglia/macrophages are seen in these cultures as shown by antibodies to . in _METHOD_ lesions macrophages are also recruited from the blood which is absent in our model but there are sufficient resident microglia/macrophages to clear most debris . axonal bulbs indicative of axonal damage are sometimes seen after demyelination in our slice model . these are reminiscent of those seen in _METHOD_ lesions . using antibodies against the marker of proliferation _PROTEIN_ _LOCATION_ we showed that treatment with lpc causing demyelination provoked a proliferative response which subsided with remyelination . the number of proliferating cells in cerebellar/brainstem slices increased fold the day after demyelination compared to at div in control myelinated slices . at div the number of proliferating cells had returned to levels indistinguishable from control myelinated slices . some of these proliferating cells are oligodendroglial cells as shown by using antibodies to and . the number of cells double positive for and _PROTEIN_ increased fold the day after demyelination compared to at div in control myelinated slices . at div the number of proliferating cells had returned to levels indistinguishable from control myelinated slices . similar results were seen with immunohistochemistry to . therefore demyelination stimulates oligodendroglial proliferation in slice cultures as well as in _METHOD_ brain . this increase in proliferation of opcs was also seen by using brdu incorporation with a fold increase in brdu positive opcs the day after demyelination compared to at div in control myelinated slices returning to basal rates at div . addition of pdgf a known stimulus of opc proliferation in vitro and in vivo further promotes proliferation in slice cultures both at div with a fold increase in the basal rate of proliferation and after demyelination with a fold increase in numbers of proliferating cells compared to slices in the absence of pdgf . all cultures are grown in horse serum containing some pdgf and other growth _PROTEIN_ but even so addition of exogenous pdgf caused an increase in proliferation over and above that of control cultures . we considered the possibility that the apparent return of myelin sheaths in our slice system represents myelination of previously unmyelinated nerve fibres . remyelinated myelin sheaths are thinner and have shorter internodal lengths compared to myelin sheaths formed in development . to investigate whether the return of myelin sheaths after lpc treatment represents genuinely remyelinated fibres we performed electron microscopy on cerebellar slices to measure g ratios . myelinated fibres were measured after div and remyelinated fibres at div with demyelination on day . the g ratio represents the ratio of the diameter of the axon to the diameter of the myelinated fibre and allows comparison of myelin _PROTEIN_ for different axon sizes . there was a marked difference between the groups with remyelinated fibres having higher g ratios and thus thinner myelin sheaths . the curves of best fit through the points are shown in d and these are statistically significantly different using the maximum likelihood ratio test . we measured the lengths of the myelin sheaths in both cerebellum and spinal cord by measuring the distance between paranodes labelled with anti _PROTEIN_ antibodies . we saw that the frequency of short myelin sheaths at div was much higher than in initial myelination . the _PROTEIN_ staining of paranodes which reappears in remyelination plus the compaction of the myelin sheaths seen by electron microscopy suggests that these remyelinated fibres are mature . fully formed nodes of ranvier were also identified . thus myelin sheaths that reappear after lpc treatment are thinner and shorter than before pathognomonic of remyelination . there is no previously published automated quantification of myelin sheaths . previously the amount of myelination has been measured by measuring _PROTEIN_ activity but this is a marker of differentiation of oligodendrocytes rather than the presence of myelin sheaths . similarly an approach using a beta galactosidase luminometric assay in a transgenic mouse _PROTEIN_ lacz under the mbp promoter only measures mbp _PROTEIN_ rather than the formation of myelin sheaths . the amount of _METHOD_ staining for mbp has also been used but this does not allow for the number of axons present and mbp is present in oligodendrocyte processes and cell bodies as well as myelin sheaths . recently it was also described that retinoic acid increased mbp mrna and protein _PROTEIN_ in schwann cell bodies in the peripheral nervous system but reduced myelinated internodes indicating that mbp protein alone is not an ideal measure of myelination . a fast accurate objective and automatic quantification of the amount of myelin is essential in order to use our model to study _PROTEIN_ influencing myelination or remyelination in a high throughput manner . to determine the amount of myelin per axon we used immunohistochemistry to stain the structural myelin protein mbp in green and the axonal protein nfh in red . as mbp also stains oligodendrocyte cell bodies and non myelinating processes we measured the overlap between red and green staining at objective to quantify only mbp staining overlying axons the myelin sheaths . we have capitalised on the _PROTEIN_ that at this resolution mbp staining appears to overlie nfh staining which is lost at higher resolution . we used image pro plus software to write a macro to count pixels which are both red and green above a defined intensity overlap for each layer within a confocal stack producing a mask . we exclude extremely small areas of overlap to exclude artefact forming an enhanced mask representing myelinated internodes . the number of pixels in the enhanced mask is divided by the number of red pixels in the photograph of neurofilament staining only obtaining the myelination index . with this macro analysis of a stack of images takes around s. this method is fast objective and avoids counting most cell bodies . to test whether this quantification system is sensitive enough to detect changes in myelination we used it to measure myelination in the cerebellar slice system at div div and div . the myelination index increases in a linear way with time with significant differences between each time point _PROTEIN_ . addition of various _PROTEIN_ to in vitro co culture models of developmental myelination have been shown to alter myelination . however several of these _PROTEIN_ fail to affect remyelination in in vivo models . we tested these known _PROTEIN_ in our cerebellar slice model for their influence on remyelination in order to test the fidelity of our slice system to the in vivo situation . we tested two _PROTEIN_ which promote the proliferation of opcs and _PROTEIN_ myelination in vitro but do not affect myelination in vivo platelet derived growth _PROTEIN_ and fibroblast growth _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ . we used _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ type and dapt as these promote myelination in culture though are not effective in remyelination in vivo . we used cis retinoic acid which promotes remyelination in vivo and the retinoic acid receptor x antagonist _PROTEIN_ which reduces myelination in vitro . we also used two specific rxr agonists _PROTEIN_ to show that the effect was specific to the rxr receptor . each of these _PROTEIN_ was added h after the removal of lpc from the culture and replenished every second day . the myelination index for each _PROTEIN_ tested in the slice model is shown in b . as summarised in we found that only _PROTEIN_ influencing remyelination in vivo influenced remyelination in our slice model . of note we found that although pdgf addition promoted opc proliferation as found in vitro it did not change the rate of remyelination in our slice model which is reflected in its failure to improve remyelination in vivo . this suggests that use of our slice model of remyelination using the myelination index for quantification is predictive of the in vivo effect both in positively predicting those that have an in vivo effect and negatively predicting those that do not . therapies to enhance remyelination aim to either stimulate remyelination by endogenous oligodendroglial cells or aim to add exogenous cells to fulfil this role . purified rat opcs added to mouse cerebellar slices treated with cytosine arabinoside to prevent endogenous myelination previously achieved some successful myelination presumed to be myelination of mouse axons by rat oligodendroglial cells . we tested whether manipulated exogenous opcs added to slices can incorporate into the structure mature and myelinate . we transduced mouse opcs with lentivirus _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ and pipetted these directly onto cerebellar slices . after days some _METHOD_ positive opcs were attached only to the culture _LOCATION_ or the edge of the slice but others penetrated into the slice tissue and myelinated axons . we have similarly achieved myelination by adding _METHOD_ positive neurospheres to slices . thus endogenous and exogenous opcs form myelin sheaths in our slice model allowing testing of therapies enhancing both strategies for improving remyelination .
animal work was carried out in accordance with the university of edinburgh regulations under home office rules with local ethical committee consent . mouse pups were decapitated and their brains or spinal cords were dissected into ice cold hank 's balanced salt solution . sagittal slices of cerebellum brainstem or spinal cord were cut using a mcilwain tissue chopper . the slices were placed on millipore millicell cm organotypic culture inserts in medium containing mem with earle 's salts earle 's balanced salt solution heat inactivated horse serum glutamax ii supplement with penicillin streptomycin amphotericin b _PROTEIN_ and mg/ml _PROTEIN_ . medium was changed every two days . after days in culture demyelination was induced by addition of mg/ml lysophosphatidylcholine to the medium for h after which slices were transferred back into normal medium . cerebellar slice cultures require around h whereas brainstem and spinal cord cultures require around h of incubation . concentrations of lpc higher than this are also toxic to axons . medium containing _PROTEIN_ was added h _PROTEIN_ . _PROTEIN_ used were platelet derived growth _PROTEIN_ fibroblast growth _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ neuregulin _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ iii _METHOD_ dapt cis retinoic acid agonists and _PROTEIN_ and antagonist _PROTEIN_ . cultures were _PROTEIN_ for a further days and then processed for immunolabelling . for proliferation assays brdu was added for h to the culture medium before fixation at and . slices were fixed while attached to _LOCATION_ with paraformaldehyde in phosphate buffered saline _PROTEIN_ for h rinsed in _PROTEIN_ for min thrice and blocked with hihs bovine serum albumin and triton x in _PROTEIN_ for h. slices were then incubated in primary antibody overnight washed once for min and then thrice for h. the slices were then incubated in secondary antibody overnight washed thrice and mounted . the antibodies and _PROTEIN_ required antigen retrieval before incubation with the primary antibody by microwaving in vector h antigen unmasking solution for min . antibodies used include contactin associated protein _PROTEIN_ myelin basic protein neurofilament _PROTEIN_ neuronin n _METHOD_ periaxin _PROTEIN_ and brdu . appropriate _METHOD_ secondary antibodies were used . samples were fixed in glutaraldehyde in m sodium cacodylate buffer ph for h washed in _PROTEIN_ and post fixed in osmium tetroxide in m sodium cacodylate for min . the samples were then dehydrated in increasing concentrations of acetone and embedded in araldite resin . sections _PROTEIN_ were cut on a reichert ultramicrotome _METHOD_ stained with toluidine blue and viewed in a light microscope to select suitable areas for investigation . ultrathin sections nm _PROTEIN_ were cut from selected areas stained in uranyl acetate and lead citrate and then viewed in a phillips _PROTEIN_ transmission electron microscope . images were taken on a gatan orius ccd camera . the perimeter of the axon and the outer border of the myelin sheath was traced and measured with image pro plus software . the g ratio was obtained by dividing these values . the axon diameter was measured by taking the average length of diameters measured at intervals and passing through the centre of the axon . the maximum likelihood test was used to test the likelihood that the two g ratio regression lines were statistically different . confocal microscopy was used to obtain stacks of photographs of mbp and nfh immunolabelling at intervals in white matter areas at magnification . slices thinned after culture for days to approximately _PROTEIN_ . myelinated fibres are best observed between a depth of to from the upper surface and all our results were taken from this level . a macro was written with image pro plus software to automate quantification of the myelination index . the photographs were merged at each level in the stack and the pixels where there was overlap of red and green within a predefined intensity were highlighted forming a mask of co localization . very small areas of pixels positive for overlap were excluded automatically to avoid artefact . then the area covered by positive pixels was measured . a similar procedure was performed for nfh staining and the two measurements divided to form the myelination index as a measure of the amount of myelin sheath per axon area . the macro written within the programme platform _METHOD_ all these steps automatically in around s per image stack . comparison of the effect of _PROTEIN_ on the myelination index and proliferation was analysed statistically using _PROTEIN_ followed by the dunnett 's multiple comparison test . data comparing multiple _PROTEIN_ on the myelination index is presented normalised to the control group which is given the myelination index of . internodal lengths were measured from merges of photographs of slices stained with mbp nfh and _PROTEIN_ and the distance between _PROTEIN_ staining at paranodes was traced using imagej . comparison of the frequency distribution of internode length was analysed statistically using the kolmogorov smirnov test for non normally distributed data . mouse opcs were isolated using the shake off method described previously and plated onto poly d lysine coated well plates . lentivirus containing a _METHOD_ sequence with a post transcriptional enhancer under the cytomegalovirus promoter and with a vesicular stomatitis virus envelope protein was added to the opcs at a concentration of particles per cell for h . opcs were _PROTEIN_ in a proliferative state for days with addition of pdgf and _PROTEIN_ and foetal calf serum in dulbecco 's modified eagles medium . the cells were then trypsinised using tryple _PROTEIN_ solution for min spun down at rpm and resuspended in slice culture medium . these cells were pipetted directly onto slices and the cultures _PROTEIN_ for days . _METHOD_ containing oligodendrocytes were visible directly with a _METHOD_ microscope and the cultures were co stained for mbp and nfh as described above .
