domains are noncatalytic _PROTEIN_ modules that mediate binding to granular starch . the domains from the _PROTEIN_ module family are found as tandem repeats in a small number of enzymes primarily from photosynthesizing _METHOD_ . isolated domains from representatives of each of the two classes of enzyme carrying domains the solanum water dikinase and the arabidopsis thaliana _LOCATION_ were _PROTEIN_ as recombinant proteins and characterized . differential scanning calorimetry was used to verify the conformational integrity of an isolated domain revealing a surprisingly high thermal stability . the functionality of was demonstrated in planta by yellow/green _METHOD_ protein fusions and transient _PROTEIN_ in tobacco leaves . affinities for starch and soluble cyclodextrin starch mimics were measured by adsorption assays surface plasmon resonance and isothermal titration calorimetry analyses . the data indicate that binds with an affinity of about two orders of magnitude lower than the classical domains from _LOCATION_ microbial amylolytic enzymes . this suggests that domains are a recurring feature in _LOCATION_ starch metabolism and supports the hypothesis that reversible binding effectuated through interaction with starch granules facilitates dynamic regulation of enzyme activities and hence of starch metabolism .
family sequences were obtained from the _PROTEIN_ enzymes database . furthermore a search of the translated nucleotide database at the national center for biotechnology information uncovered several additional sequences with homology to stgwd and _PROTEIN_ which were included in the analysis . alignment of these sequences showed not only extensive conservation in the catalytic domains suggesting a preservation of function but also the existence of the appended domains . the sequences used in the subsequent analysis included from proteins from primarily photosynthetic eukaryotes as well as from apicomplexan parasites . a common characteristic of these _METHOD_ is the presence of starch or crystalline polysaccharides . the starch synthesis ability of the apicomplexan parasites is believed to be derived from an endosymbiosis of a red alga with following loss of photosynthetic capacity . the are present as tandem domains in the part of stgwd and _PROTEIN_ and separated by a linker of approximately and amino acids respectively . the alignment of all identified revealed that each contains five aromatic amino acids that are widely conserved across all species . these residues are also present in stgwd and _PROTEIN_ . the ability to bind to starch has been associated with certain consensus aromatic residues in other cbm families and although there is evidence that two of the aromatic residues are necessary for the ability of stgwd the lack of structural information on precludes the assignment of residues to specific binding sites as has been performed for from arabidopsis _PROTEIN_ . it was clear from the collected sequences that the tandem organization of two domains is a common characteristic of most enzymes suggesting that this is essential for the functionality of the appended catalytic modules . _METHOD_ of _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ from the green algae chlamydomonasreinhardtii and micromonas contained only one identifiable domain . whether this represents a simple misannotation or a distinct function of sbds is unknown . a previous analysis of a recombinant truncated stgwd lacking showed an altered specificity on soluble substrates with a preference for the phosphorylation of shorter _PROTEIN_ chains . a phylogenetic tree based on the complete amino acid alignment of all showed obvious groupings of the individual domains from plant sequences . most of the nonplant sequences formed a separate mixed group reflecting the evolutionary distance and low homology between these sequences . overall it appears as though and the tandem structure of these domains arose early in evolution perhaps in an ancestor of the current photosynthetic eukaryotes . it has been proposed that _PROTEIN_ sequences were a prerequisite for the appearance of semicrystalline polymers . if this is indeed the case the appended domains could represent a truly ancient sbd and perhaps be one of the first _METHOD_ dedicated to starch binding . in order to characterize the from stgwd several _PROTEIN_ constructs were produced and tested . because there is no structural information on putative domain borders were assigned on the basis of the predicted secondary structure and homology to other _METHOD_ . thirteen constructs with an tobacco etch virus histidine containing both the single and double modules with or without the intervening sequence were produced and tested for soluble _PROTEIN_ . two of each of the recombinant single modules as well as the double module were further purified . although the and double module could be _PROTEIN_ with reasonable yields they precipitated rapidly after purification and were not suitable for detailed analyses . the were stable at ph and could be subjected to tev protease cleavage and dialysis without significant loss of protein . the more stable of the two resulting proteins was chosen for detailed characterization . this protein precipitated slowly when stored at . the general problem of aggregation observed with the recombinant suggests that the isolated sbd is destabilized as a result of the exposure of hydrophobic surface which would otherwise be packed on other domains in the native _PROTEIN_ . initial differential scanning calorimetry screening of the stgwd indicated a high unfolding temperature . this protein gave rise to a broad asymmetric thermogram with tm . proteolytic removal of the yielded a symmetric single peak thermogram with tm at ph . interestingly the unfolding was partially reversible as demonstrated by the and area recovery of the second and third scans respectively . fitting a model to the and calorimetric trace resulted in an excellent fit yielding attesting to the high thermal stability and conformational integrity of from stgwd . this cbm displayed similarly high conformational stability at ph but the reversibility was _PROTEIN_ significantly and the protein was prone to aggregation . the reason for this extraordinarily high stability is unknown but it strongly suggests that is correctly folded and justifies the use of the isolated domain to investigate the binding properties of . thermostability is often associated with lower structural flexibility which may influence ligand interactions but how this affects the binding properties of the domain is unclear . in the case of the domain from aspergillus niger _PROTEIN_ binding site which is characterized by high conformational flexibility and large rearrangements on binding displays higher affinity towards when compared with the structurally rigid site . _PROTEIN_ was _PROTEIN_ as either the protein excluding the chloroplast transit peptide or as the tandem . two versions of the double module carrying a at either end gave rise to some soluble protein but as these proteins were prone to aggregation and rapid degradation they could not be characterized any further . in contrast _PROTEIN_ carrying a was soluble and was produced in satisfactory yields in a fermentor . this recombinant _PROTEIN_ was capable of releasing reducing sugars from amylopectin glycogen and dextrin at both ph and ph and indicating that the recombinant protein was correctly folded . it has been shown previously that the isolated domain from atpwd has relatively low affinity towards cyclodextrins . spr was employed to measure the affinity of stgwd for selected soluble oligosaccharides . the domain was biotinylated immobilized on a _PROTEIN_ and probed for _PROTEIN_ ability at ph . the resulting dissociation constants towards both and as well as were in the submillimolar range and comparable with the values obtained for the atpwd . the related function of the catalytic modules in atpwd and stgwd is thus matched by a similar range of affinity of their sbds despite the _PROTEIN_ that they have been assigned to two different cbm families . this property was confirmed by spr analysis of the binding of to _PROTEIN_ in a similar experimental using a different immobilization chemistry . the kd value obtained was in the same range as for stgwd suggesting that the weak binding of the starch mimic is a general feature of . for both proteins an approximate variation was observed in the calculated kd value between identical experiments . this was most probably a consequence of the low affinity manifested in low ratios particularly at high cyclodextrin concentrations resulting in elevated background levels . for this reason cyclodextrin concentrations above mm were excluded from the subsequent data analysis . the data in table were obtained from a representative experiment giving the best fit to the binding curve . the stgwd domain showed no detectable affinity towards maltoheptaose . this is not surprising as the affinity of sbds for linear oligosaccharides is generally much lower than for cyclodextrins because of the additional entropic penalty associated with the stabilization of the conformation of the linear ligand upon binding . to corroborate the affinity range acquired in the spr experiment stgwd was analysed by itc with at ph and ph . although binding was evident in both cases the heat responses were small . the data obtained at ph were noisy suggesting that the protein was more prone to aggregation at this ph . a binding model was fitted to the integrated itc data giving a kd value of mm for the binding of to stgwd at ph in good agreement with the value obtained using spr . the measured heat of dilution was negligible and was disregarded in the integrations . the binding was driven by a favourable enthalpy change which compensated for an unfavourable entropy change . the binding affinity at ph was similar to that at ph . this thermodynamic fingerprint is consistent with the binding of to other sbds . the observed binding affinity of for cyclodextrins is considerably lower than that of other characterized sbds from microbial amylolytic enzymes . analysis of and sbds from two _PROTEIN_ gave kd values of and respectively for the interaction with . similarly a sbd from thermotoga maritima pullulanase showed a kd value of for the interaction with . an amylase from bacillus halodurans carrying both a and a sbd gave kd values in the range mm for the binding of various linear maltooligosaccharides to the individual sbds . as mentioned above the affinity for linear ligands is generally lower than for cyclic ligands and stgwd showed no binding to maltoheptaose . taken together the data presented here show that the binding affinity of the sbd is one to two orders of magnitude lower than the sbds typically appended to microbial amylolytic enzymes . this clearly distinguishes the from these more thoroughly studied sbds and together with the previous report on the domain from atpwd suggests that interactions are a recurring characteristic of _LOCATION_ starch metabolism . this would permit a more dynamic interaction with the starch granule which may be necessary for the accurate control of the rate of degradation . the _PROTEIN_ phosphorylation carried out by _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ is an essential initial step in starch degradation in both tubers and leaves and it has been suggested that the plant controls the release of energy from starch at this crucial step . it is possible that the low binding affinity of the single domain is masked by avidity effects of the tandem arrangement of _METHOD_ in the native enzyme . this has recently been observed for the chloroplastic starch synthase iii from arabidopsis . the low binding affinity of native _PROTEIN_ towards would suggest that this is not the case for the tandem but based on the current data a small avidity effect can not be entirely ruled out . the _PROTEIN_ offered an advantage when examining the binding affinity of sbds to starch as it displayed catalytic activity and being a enzyme misinterpretation of binding data as a result of instability or aggregation would most likely be minimal compared with the isolated . hence the ability of purified recombinant _PROTEIN_ was demonstrated by incubation with starch isolated from leaves of tobacco plants . binding was carried out at and the activity of the unbound fraction was subsequently measured . a binding model was fitted to the binding isotherm resulting in a kd value of and maximum binding capacity of . this affinity is up to two orders of magnitude lower than that reported previously for the binding of various domains to starch . a similar experiment using maize starch resulted in comparable affinity but substantially lower binding capacity . a previous binding analysis of a construct encompassing the isolated recombinant stgwd to granular potato starch yielded a dissociation constant in the same range . this construct however contained approximately amino acids of the intervening sequence of unknown function and the structural integrity of the protein was not verified . the data obtained not only support the affinity range measured using spr and itc with the cyclodextrin starch mimics but also verify the ability of _PROTEIN_ in vitro . it can not be precluded that some binding may involve secondary binding sites in the catalytic domain but the demonstrated ability of different isolated used in both the present and other studies suggests that _PROTEIN_ does indeed interact with starch granules through the tandem domains . it has been shown by immunoblotting that stgwd binds to starch in planta in its active form . to investigate whether the isolated from stgwd function as sbds in planta they were fused to yellow _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ either singly or as the double module and transiently _PROTEIN_ in tobacco leaves . the constructs were targeted to the chloroplasts by an fusion to the transit peptide of arabidopsis _PROTEIN_ . in a similar experimental fusions between green _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ and either _PROTEIN_ or the tandem were analysed . investigation of localization using confocal laser scanning microscopy showed clear targeting to the chloroplasts of mesophyll cells and binding to transient starch granules for stgwd and _PROTEIN_ . the stgwd fusion in contrast gave rise to numerous highly _METHOD_ inclusion structures with no clear targeting . the double module from _PROTEIN_ did not yield any visible signal . the behaviour of these proteins is likely to be affected by their instability and observed tendency to aggregate in isolated form suggesting that the depend on packing contacts with other domains in the native enzyme . further support for the binding of isolated to starch comes from a previous report showing binding to starch in vitro of an stgwd construct encompassing and an in planta localization analysis of _METHOD_ from arabidopsis _PROTEIN_ . in the present study it has been demonstrated that both isolated single and double domains from stgwd are capable of binding to starch and that _PROTEIN_ binds to starch both in vitro and in planta .
dna fragments of s. tuberosum _PROTEIN_ were amplified as outlined in fig . using the primers given in table . the pcr products were cloned using gateway technology via the entry vector and subsequently moved into the _PROTEIN_ vector with an tev . the _PROTEIN_ vectors were transformed into escherichia coli cells . cultures were grown in l scale in tunair flasks at cooled to before induction with mm isopropyl and harvested h after induction . for protein purification cell pellets were lysed in ml bugbuster with of benzonase nuclease . following centrifugation the supernatant was loaded onto a histrap hp ml column and eluted by a mm imidazole gradient in mm tris/hcl ph mm nacl v/v glycerol and m betaine according to the manufacturer s instructions . tev protease cleavage of the was performed with actev protease according to the manufacturer s instructions . for production incubation was performed overnight at room temperate using of the recommended amount of protease . the cleaved untagged protein was purified by anion exchange on a mono q gl column in mm tris/hcl ph and eluted with column volumes of a m nacl gradient . after dialysis to remove nacl the protein was stored at . an _PROTEIN_ cdna clone was obtained from the _PROTEIN_ arabidopsis genome encyclopedia . _PROTEIN_ excluding the chloroplast transit peptide and stop codon was amplified _PROTEIN_ and cloned into the ncoi and noti sites of the _PROTEIN_ vector containing a . the construct was transformed into e. coli rosetta cells . protein _PROTEIN_ was carried out in either a l bioreactor on defined medium by induction at an absorbance at nm of with mm iptg at and harvesting after h or in by induction with mm iptg at and harvesting after h. the cell pellet was resuspended in buffer a containing mm dithithreitol benzonase nuclease and one complete mini protease inhibitor tablet _PROTEIN_ and lysed using a french press . the lysate was incubated on ice for min clarified by centrifugation and filtered through a filter . the filtrate was applied to a histrap hp ml column washed with a mm imidazole gradient for column volumes and eluted with column volumes of a mm imidazole gradient at . concentrated partially pure _PROTEIN_ was applied to a hiload superdex gel filtration column and eluted in mm hepes ph mm nacl v/v glycerol and mm . the fractions containing _PROTEIN_ were pooled and concentrated to approximately and stored at . dsc analysis was performed using a calorimeter with a cell volume of ml at a scan rate of . samples were dialysed in at least volumes of mm hepes naoh ph or ph and degassed for min at . baseline scans collected with buffer in the reference and sample cells were subtracted from sample scans . the reversibility of the thermal transitions was evaluated by checking the reproducibility of the scan on immediate cooling and rescanning . the initial screening of the conformational stability of purified stgwd constructs was performed using a protein concentration of in mm hepes naoh ph . the dsc analysis of the form with the highest tm value was performed following cleavage of the with tev protease and subsequent repurification and dialysis of protein as mentioned above . origin software with a dsc module was used for data analysis tm assignment and unfolding enthalpy calculations . measurements of interactions with soluble ligands using spr were carried out on a biacore . domains of stgwd were biotinylated using in mm mes ph mm and and immobilized on a _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ using a standard program aiming for a density of response units . _PROTEIN_ was immobilized on a _PROTEIN_ dextran _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ in mm sodium acetate ph v/v glycerol mm and using a standard program aiming for a density of ru . _METHOD_ were collected at in mm hepes ph mm nacl mm and v/v surfactant at a flow rate of contact time of s and dissociation time of s. experiments were run in triplicate in the range for each _PROTEIN_ dissolved in the same buffer . all data evaluation was carried out using the biacore evaluation software . experiments were performed using an mcs isothermal titration calorimeter . titrations were performed by injecting in mm hepes naoh ph or into a stirred ml cell containing _METHOD_ in the same buffer . for each titration of enzyme the dialysis buffer of the sample was titrated as a control using the same stock to measure the heat of dilution . the control titration consisted of injections of in s for the first injection and for the rest and with s of equilibration between injections . titrations of the protein were carried out similarly but were continued until no significant response was observed on ligand injections . origin software supplied with the instrument was used to analyse the data . tobacco leaf starch was isolated from nicotiana benthamiana . the harvested leaves were homogenized in _PROTEIN_ in a polytron _PROTEIN_ blender _PROTEIN_ and filtered sequentially through and filtration cloth . following centrifugation the starch pellet was washed twice in _PROTEIN_ three times in water twice in ethanol and air dried . recombinant _PROTEIN_ was incubated with tobacco leaf starch granules in a mixture containing mm hepes ph mm bsa and starch . the suspension was incubated with gentle mixing at for min . the supernatant containing unbound _PROTEIN_ was treated with mm dithiothreitol for min at and activity was measured by adding of a amylopectin solution and incubating for min at . reactions were stopped by mixing with an equal volume of m naoh and liberated reducing ends were determined by the hydrazone method as described previously . the activity _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ was plotted against the starch concentration and the data were fitted to a binding model . the from stgwd were fused to _METHOD_ either singly or as the entire double module . fragments were pcr amplified using primers and cloned into the vector _METHOD_ using an improved cloning procedure . the chloroplast transit peptide of arabidopsis _PROTEIN_ was fused to each construct by simultaneous cloning of both fragments as described previously . the orf of _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ as well as an fragment covering both _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ were fused to enhanced _METHOD_ in the binary vector using _PROTEIN_ cloning technology . constructs were transformed into agrobacterium tumefaciens and transiently _PROTEIN_ by infiltration in nicotiana benthamiana as described previously . _PROTEIN_ and localization were analysed by a confocal laser scanning microscope _METHOD_ equipped with a or pl apo water immersion objective . a nm laser line was used for excitation and emission was detected between and nm for _METHOD_ _METHOD_ between and nm for _METHOD_ _METHOD_ and between and nm for chlorophyll _METHOD_ .
