in plants an active defense against biotrophic pathogens is dependent on a functional continuum between the cell wall and the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ . it is thus anticipated that proteins _PROTEIN_ this continuum also function in defense . the legume like lectin receptor kinase lecrk is a putative mediator of cw pm adhesions in arabidopsis and is known to bind in vitro to the phytophthora infestans rxlr deer effector ipi o via a rgd cell attachment motif present in ipi o . here we show that lecrk is associated with the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ and that two t dna insertions lines deficient in lecrk have a gain of susceptibility phenotype specifically towards the oomycete phytophthora brassicae . accordingly overexpression of lecrk leads to enhanced resistance to p. brassicae . a similar gain of susceptibility phenotype was observed in transgenic arabidopsis lines _PROTEIN_ ipio . this phenocopy behavior was also observed with respect to other defense related functions lecrk and were both disturbed in pathogen and mamp triggered callose deposition . by site directed mutagenesis we demonstrated that the rgd cell attachment motif in ipi o is not only essential for disrupting the cw pm adhesions but also for disease suppression . these results suggest that destabilizing the cw pm continuum is one of the tactics used by phytophthora to promote infection . as countermeasure the host may want to strengthen cw pm adhesions and the novel phytophthora resistance component lecrk _METHOD_ to function in this process .
analysis of endogenous lecrk _PROTEIN_ in arabidopsis col by rt pcr revealed lecrk transcripts in all tested tissues i.e. in flowers siliques _METHOD_ rosette leaves and roots . to analyze lecrk _PROTEIN_ in more detail we used a transgenic arabidopsis col line carrying the reporter construct plecrk gus consisting of the promoter region of lecrk fused to the coding sequence of the _PROTEIN_ gene . analysis of this line selected because of a single copy insertion and a representative gus staining pattern revealed that lecrk is differentially _PROTEIN_ during organ differentiation with very low or no _PROTEIN_ in fully differentiated tissues . we inoculated the plecrk gus reporter line with two p. brassicae isolates one that is compatible with col and another one that is incompatible with col but capable to infect other arabidopsis accessions . gus staining upon inoculation with isolate was comparable to the staining observed in un inoculated or mock treated leaves . in both cases we observed a blue color in the petiole and in the primary veins of rosette leaves but not in leaf epidermal and mesophyll cells . in contrast inoculation with hh resulted in a significant increase in gus activity as early as day post inoculation . shows the gus activity at dpi . a similar increase also appearing within dpi was observed in the non host interaction of col with p. infestans and upon inoculation with isolate _PROTEIN_ of the necrotrophic grey mold fungus botrytis cinerea which can infect and colonize col . the prominent difference between an incompatible and compatible interaction was also observed by others . they found increased gus activity within hours after inoculation with the avirulent pseudomonas syringae strain while in a compatible interaction with p. syringae there was only a slight increase in gus activity . the _PROTEIN_ patterns that we observed in the plecrk gus reporter line are consistent with _PROTEIN_ data retrieved from publicly available repositories . taken together these results reveal induction of _PROTEIN_ of lecrk upon infection with b. cinerea and in incompatible interactions with biotrophic phytophthora and pseudomonas pathogens . gus activity in leaves of a transgenic arabidopsis line carrying promoter gus construct plecrk gus . in mature non inoculated leaves gus activity is localized in the petiole and in veins . gus activity in leaves days post inoculation with the virulent p. brassicae isolate the avirulent p. brassicae isolate hh p. infestans ipo dpi with b. cinerea _PROTEIN_ and days after wounding . lecrk contains a putative transmembrane domain and hence hypothesized to be associated with a _LOCATION_ . to determine the subcellular localization of lecrk we constructed the binary vector ps lecrk _METHOD_ that is suitable for transient in planta _PROTEIN_ of c terminal _METHOD_ tagged lecrk . leaves of nicotiana benthamiana were co infiltrated with agrobacterium strains carrying ps lecrk _METHOD_ and mcherry and after to days examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy . _METHOD_ _METHOD_ was detected at the cell surface whereas the red _METHOD_ signal of free mcherry was found to be distributed in the _LOCATION_ and the surrounding cytoplasm and throughout the cytoplasm lining the cell surface . merging the _METHOD_ and mcherry images revealed distinct _METHOD_ of both _METHOD_ and mcherry at the cell surface with _METHOD_ more peripheral than mcherry . co localization of _METHOD_ and mcherry was never observed within the _LOCATION_ or in the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ network that surrounds the _LOCATION_ nor in cytoplasmic strands . _METHOD_ _METHOD_ at the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ and distinct from free mcherry was reproducible in several independent experiments . this demonstrates that in these transient _PROTEIN_ assays lecrk _METHOD_ is targeted to the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ and points to association of lecrk with the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ . confocal images of a n. benthamiana epidermal cell transiently _PROTEIN_ lecrk _METHOD_ and mcherry . single channel _METHOD_ and merged _METHOD_ images . arrows point towards cytoplasmic strands . scale bars represent . to be able to study the potential function of lecrk we obtained two mutant lines with t dna insertions just downstream of the translation start site i.e. lecrk and lecrk . rt pcr using gene specific primers confirmed that both lecrk mutant lines lack lecrk _PROTEIN_ . growth behavior and morphology of the two homozygous lecrk mutants and the recipient line col were comparable . also generation time seed setting and seed germination were not affected in lecrk deficient plants . we then compared the response of the lecrk mutants and col to inoculation with p. brassicae . isolate hh is incompatible with col and unable to colonize col plants . in contrast plug inoculation of lecrk plants with isolate hh resulted in lesions that first appeared days after inoculation and expanded further until complete leaf collapse after days . similar results were obtained when col and lecrk plants were inoculated with zoospores of isolate hh . this gain of disease susceptibility was observed in several assays on both lecrk and lecrk . it is a stable phenotype and the infection efficiency of isolate hh on the two lecrk lines is on average over percent . trypan blue staining of lecrk leaves infected with hh revealed heavy tissue colonization and sporulation . this was further confirmed by uv _METHOD_ microscopy in lecrk leaves infected with a _METHOD_ tagged transformant of isolate hh . comparable disease _METHOD_ and ie were found when lecrk plants were inoculated with p. brassicae isolate ii which is like isolate hh incompatible with col . schematic representation of lecrk and its gene product . the coding sequence is nt in length and has one continuous open reading frame . the two mutant lines lecrk and lecrk have a t dna insertion at position and respectively relative to the translational start . the lecrk protein contains an _LOCATION_ legume like lectin domain a transmembrane motif and an intracellular serine/threonine protein kinase domain _PROTEIN_ . col and lecrk plants days post inoculation with p. brassicae isolate hh . arrows point at lesions . colonization of lecrk leaves by p. brassicae isolate hh visualized by trypan blue staining and p. brassicae _METHOD_ transformant m revealed by uv _METHOD_ . arrows in point at sporangia . scale bar in represents and in . to determine the specificity of this gain of disease susceptibility we performed infection assays with other pathogens . despite the _PROTEIN_ that _PROTEIN_ of lecrk is induced in response to infection with b. cinerea lecrk did not show stronger disease _METHOD_ compared to col . moreover inoculation of lecrk with the non host pathogens p. infestans and alternaria brassicicola a necrotrophic fungus did not result in lesion formation and no changes in disease susceptibility were found with respect to the hemibiotrophic fungus colletotrichum destructivum which _METHOD_ a compatible interaction with col . to further investigate the role of lecrk in the defense response transgenic arabidopsis plants were generated that constitutively _PROTEIN_ lecrk . a construct containing the full length coding sequence of lecrk under the control of the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus promoter was transferred to arabidopsis accession col via flower dip transformation . multiple independent lines were obtained two of which were selected for further analysis . in comparison to the recipient line col both lecrk lines had more compact rosettes with smaller and slightly wrinkled leaves and were shorter in height . moreover the transgenic lines displayed a substantially higher accumulation of anthocyanin and lignin a phenomenon not observed in col or the lecrk lines . anthocyanin pigmentation and lignin deposition was most intense in mature cotyledons and along the petioles and midribs of young rosette leaves . in comparison to the recipient line col lecrk lines have more compact rosettes with smaller and slightly wrinkled leaves . anthocyanin and lignin staining in rosette leaves of col and lecrk lines . when we _PROTEIN_ the two lecrk lines and the recipient line col with p. brassicae isolate hh we observed no differences . col is incompatible with hh and this incompatibility with hh is _PROTEIN_ in the lecrk lines . col is compatible though with p. brassicae isolate and upon inoculation with this isolate both with mycelium plugs and by drop inoculation with a zoospore suspension col leaves became completely colonized . in contrast such colonization was not observed in the transgenic lecrk lines . these plants showed an elevated level of resistance towards this p. brassicae isolate there were no or only minor disease _METHOD_ but instead there was a hypersensitive response including an increase in callose deposition which was not found in col . the experiment was repeated several times with comparable results . no differences in disease progression were observed between col and the lecrk lines upon inoculation with botrytis cinerea . arabidopsis leaves inoculated with plugs or zoospores of p. brassicae isolate . pictures were taken days post inoculation dpi and dpi . lesion expansion was observed on col leaves but not on leaves from two independent lecrk lines . in leaves were stained for callose _METHOD_ . hr hypersensitive response . scale bars in represent . to examine whether ipi o functions as an effector that manipulates host defense responses we generated arabidopsis transformants carrying a transgene composed of the coding sequence of the p. infestans gene fused to the constitutive camv promoter in a col background . transgene _PROTEIN_ was confirmed by rt pcr . the transformants developed normal and with respect to morphology and size they could not be distinguished from col plants . multiple independent transformants were tested for their response to p. brassicae . in contrast to col which as expected exhibited full resistance to p. brassicae isolate hh the plants displayed clear disease _METHOD_ days after inoculation with hh . the foliar lesions developed gradually over time and leaves were completely wilted after days . this phenotype was observed in several independent experiments and the ie on the plants was comparable to the ie on lecrk lines . trypan blue staining of infected leaf material revealed _METHOD_ intercellular hyphal growth and sporulation similar to what was observed in the infected lecrk lines . comparable disease _METHOD_ and ie were found when the plants were inoculated with p. brassicae isolate ii . also with respect to infection with the fungi a. brassicicola c. destructivum and b. cinerea and the bacterium p. syringae the plants responded similar as the two lecrk lines . these results show that in response to pathogens the lecrk and lines behave as phenocopies . both lines show gain of susceptibility to p. brassicae and defects in cell wall integrity . leaves inoculated with p. brassicae isolate hh days post inoculation . elicitation of plasmolysis in etiolated hypocotyls by treatment with m . shown are concave and convex _METHOD_ of plasmolysis . in col only a few cells show convex plasmolysis in lecrk convex shapes occur more frequently whereas in the majority of cells is convex . etiolated hypocotyls were stained with neutral red . scale bars represent . based on at least three independent experiments r resistant s susceptible . s more susceptible . c. and d. roby personal communication . previously it was shown that exposing arabidopsis cells to ipi o protein obtained by heterologous ipio _PROTEIN_ in e. coli results in disruption of the cw pm continuum . to investigate if ectopic _PROTEIN_ of ipio in arabidopsis causes the same effect we examined the cw pm continuum in plants . plasmolysis was induced by soaking the hypocotyls in m . upon staining with neutral red we observed that in col the pm readily separated from the cw but at several points the adhesions between cw and pm were _PROTEIN_ resulting in pockets that are concave with respect to cells . in contrast convex _METHOD_ of plasmolysis were observed in plants the pm quickly separated from the cw reaching a near spherical shape similar to what was previously observed upon adding ipi protein to arabidopsis cell suspension cultures . to exclude that constitutive _PROTEIN_ of ipio leads to secondary effects indirectly causing disruption of cw pm continuum we generated stable transformants in which _PROTEIN_ is under control of the alcohol inducible alca promoter . similar to the transformants the alca transformants were morphological comparable to the parental line col . after exposure of the alca plants to ethanol for min plasmolyzed hypocotyls displayed a phenotype identical that of plants i.e. convex _METHOD_ of plasmolysis . hence we can conclude that ipi o causes the loss of cw pm adhesions . in col background based on three independent experiments percentage observed in one experiment out of three with similar outcome n number of examined hypocotyls . a logic next step was to examine the cw pm adhesions in the phenocopy lecrk lines . as shown in the convex _METHOD_ of plasmolysis that were observed in and alca plants were also found in both knock out lines lecrk and lecrk . it should be noted however that the relative number of hypocotyls with cells that showed a convex shape of plasmolysis was much less than in the lines . these observations imply that overexpression of lecrk would lead to an increase in the strength of the cw pm adhesions . unfortunately it was not possible to measure this . when we compared plasmolysed cells in hypocotyls from wild type col and lecrk lines no differences were observed and even at higher concentration the shape in the plasmolysed col cells remained concave . to determine whether cw pm interactions are disturbed plant cells _PROTEIN_ with phytophthora we examined the cw pm integrity in plasmolysed epidermal cells of n. benthamiana which can be considered as a host plant shortly after infection with p. infestans . to better visualize penetration the leaves were inoculated with zoospores of a _METHOD_ labeled p. infestans isolate _METHOD_ . upon infection we observed a strong detachment between cw and pm in epidermal cells penetrated by p. infestans . in contrast this detachment was not observed in uninfected neighboring cells . the gain of susceptibility and impairment of cell wall integrity suggests that cell wall associated defense response could be affected in the lecrk and lines . to investigate this we analyzed the level of callose deposition in the phenocopy lines after infiltration with p. syringae . strain produces effectors that suppress defense in col and as a result callose deposition is _PROTEIN_ . the p. syringae hrcc mutant can no longer suppress defense resulting in callose accumulation . microscopic analysis revealed that infiltrated leaves did not display callose deposition in col and neither in lecrk nor in lines . as expected col leaves infiltrated with the p. syringae hrcc mutant displayed a significant increase of callose deposition but in contrast this increase was not observed in hrcc infiltrated leaves of lecrk and plants . similarly infiltration with the oligopeptide resulted in extensive callose deposition in col but hardly any callose deposition was found in lecrk and lines . this points at a defect in mamp triggered callose deposition in both the lecrk and lines . arabidopsis leaves stained with aniline blue after infiltration with pseudomonas syringae and hrcc . average totals of callose deposition and associated confidence intervals after infiltration with and hrcc . callose deposition after infiltration with . average totals of callose deposition after treatment with cis . scale bars in and represent . we then addressed the role of the rgd motif in ipi o and questioned if rgd is a determinant of the phenotypic changes observed in arabidopsis upon ectopic _PROTEIN_ . we therefore generated transgenic lines carrying constructs with site directed mutations changing rgd to rge or _PROTEIN_ . two independent rge lines one alca rge line and two alca _PROTEIN_ lines were tested in a plasmolysis assay . in none of these lines a convex type of plasmolysis was observed and as in col the cw pm adhesions remained intact . this is in agreement with the previous results that showed that in cell suspension cultures exogenously added mutant _METHOD_ of ipi had no disrupting effect . subsequently we examined how a rgd to rge mutation in ipi affects susceptibility to p. brassicae . as described above col exhibited full resistance to p. brassicae isolate hh whereas the leaves of plants were completely wilted leaves days post inoculation . on the two independent rge lines no lesions appeared and the phenotype was comparable to the incompatible interaction between col and hh . taken together these results show that the rgd cell adhesion motif in ipi o is crucial for disruption of the cw pm continuum as well as the gain of susceptibility to p. brassicae . arabidopsis transgenic lines _PROTEIN_ with a rgd to rge targeted mutation show no gain of susceptibility to p. brassicae hh . arabidopsis leaves inoculated with p. brassicae strain hh days post inoculation .
arabidopsis plants were grown in soil or in vitro on solid _METHOD_ medium sucrose and plant agar . arabidopsis was grown in a conditioned growth chamber at with a h photoperiod and at a relative humidity of . transgenic plants and t dna insertion lines were in col background . the arabidopsis t dna insertion mutants lecrk and lecrk were obtained from the european arabidopsis stock centre nasc and analyzed as described by gouget . nicotiana benthamiana plants were grown under standard greenhouse conditions . botrytis cinerea strain _PROTEIN_ and alternaria brassicicola strain were grown and _PROTEIN_ at on malt agar and potato dextrose agar plates respectively . infection assays of arabidopsis with b. cinerea and a. brassicola were performed as described by van esse et al . . colletotrichum destructivum strain _PROTEIN_ was propagated at on mathur 's agar plates and inoculum was prepared as previously described . arabidopsis leaves were drop inoculated with a conidial suspension and subsequently incubated at in trays covered with lids to _PROTEIN_ high humidity . phytophthora infestans strain ipo and the _METHOD_ transformant _METHOD_ were grown on rye agar medium supplemented with g sucrose at and zoospores were isolated as described in champouret et al. . p. brassicae strains hh ii and the hh _METHOD_ transformant m were grown at on juice agar plates _LOCATION_ and zoospores were obtained as described in bouwmeester and govers . inoculation was performed by placing plugs of young mycelium or drops of a zoospore suspension on the abaxial leaf surface . inoculated plants were kept in trays covered with lids to _PROTEIN_ a high humidity and placed in the dark and placed in a growth chamber with a h photoperiod at and a rh of . the first day the trays were kept in the dark . after two days the mycelial plugs were removed from plants to stop the facilitation of nutrition from the agar medium . pseudomonas syringae pv . tomato strains were grown on king b agar supplemented with the appropriate antibiotics at . arabidopsis leaves were spray inoculated with bacterial suspensions of colony forming units and incubated as earlier described . infection efficiencies were calculated as percentages of successful infections relative to the total number of inoculations . all infection assays were performed at least times . for cloning in binary vectors fragments were pcr amplified from the plasmids c pmbp and pmbp respectively using primers ipioxho f and mal r . pcr fragments were purified and digested with xhoi and psti to release a bp fragment containing the coding region of starting immediately after the signal peptide cleavage site and ligated into the xhoi/psti digested vector . fragments containing the coding region fused to the _PROTEIN_ ii terminator sequence were released by digesting with xhoi and ecori purified and ligated into xhoi/ecori digested binary vector thereby fusing the coding sequence to the tobacco _PROTEIN_ signal peptide sequence . the resulting binary plasmids were named and with the latter two carrying rgd tripeptide mutations and respectively . amplicons obtained by pcr amplification on and with the primers and _PROTEIN_ were digested by psti and ligated into the psti digested vector pacn . these plasmids were digested with hindiii and the fragments were ligated into the hindiii digested vector binsrnacatn . in the resulting binary plasmids and the coding sequence is fused to the ethanol inducible promoter of the alca gene . for cloning the full length coding sequence of lecrk driven by the camv promoter in a binary vector a pcr was performed on bac clone with primers s and as or _METHOD_ as . pcr fragments were cloned in pentr/d topo . lr recombination enabled cloning into binary vector and resulting in plasmids pk lecrk and ps lecrk _METHOD_ respectively . cloning steps were verified by sequencing . binary vectors were transformed to agrobacterium tumefaciens strain or _PROTEIN_ and cultured on medium containing the appropriate antibiotics . arabidopsis thaliana accession col was transformed by the floral dip method . transformed plants were selected on _METHOD_ agar with mg/l kanamycin . rooted seedlings were subsequently transferred to potting soil . multiple independent lines were selected . agroinfiltration assays were performed as previously described . leaves of week old n. benthamiana plants were co infiltrated in a ratio with a. tumefaciens suspensions of od and were analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy days after infiltration . for gus histochemical staining arabidopsis tissues were immersed and vacuum infiltrated in x _PROTEIN_ staining buffer _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and incubated overnight at . chlorophyll was removed by incubation in a ethanol series . gus stained samples were examined at low magnification under brightfield illumination . pictures of gus stained tissues shown in this paper are representative results from at least three independent experiments . neutral red staining and plasmolysis of etiolated arabidopsis seedlings was performed as previously described with minor modifications . etiolated seedlings were incubated in a neutral red solution for min and rinsed afterwards in distilled water . plasmolysis was induced by the addition of m . pictures were taken after min of plasmolysis . trypan blue staining was performed as described earlier . lignification was visualized as earlier described by mohr and cahill . in brief leaves were cleared in ethanol and incubated overnight in a phloroglucinol ethanol mixture and subsequently placed for min in hcl and washed with water . to visualize anthocyanin pigmentation leaves were incubated overnight in the dark at in methanol containing hcl . brightfield and _METHOD_ microscopy was performed with a nikon _METHOD_ microscope _METHOD_ . _METHOD_ and mcherry were visualized using a _METHOD_ b and a _PROTEIN_ filter cube . confocol laser scanning microscopy was performed using a zeiss confocor lsm . _METHOD_ and mcherry were excited with an argon and hene laser respectively . _METHOD_ was captured through the band pass emission filters _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ and nm . to visualize callose deposition arabidopsis leaves were harvested approximately h after inoculation with bacteria or infiltration with cleared overnight in an ethanol series and stained with aniline blue in mm for h. stained leaves were mounted in glycerol and _METHOD_ callose deposits were viewed using _METHOD_ microscopy . images of randomly selected fields were captured using a nikon ds digital camera and processed with imagej software to calculate the total area of callose deposits . values in are the average of at least and microscopic fields respectively . _LOCATION_ bars represent confidence intervals . total rna of arabidopsis was isolated and purified using a nucleospin rna plant kit . rt pcr was performed on a real time pcr system _METHOD_ with use of a sybr green i qpcr kit and gene specific primers . ipi lecrk
