the arabidopsis thaliana and genes are members of the larger eukaryotic gene family of microtubule associated proteins . we created _METHOD_ protein fusions driven by native promoters that colocalized and to a subset of interphase microtubule bundles in all epidermal hypocotyl cells . and labeling was highly dynamic within microtubule bundles showing episodes of linear extension and retraction coincident with microtubule growth and shortening . dynamic colocalization of with polymerizing microtubules provides in vivo evidence that plant cortical microtubules bundle through a microtubule microtubule templating mechanism . analysis of etiolated hypocotyl length in and mutants revealed a critical role for in modulating axial cell growth . double mutants showed significant growth retardation with no obvious cell swelling twisting or morphological defects . surprisingly interphase microtubules formed coaligned arrays transverse to the plant growth axis in dark grown and _PROTEIN_ treated light grown mutant plants . we conclude that and play a critical role in the microtubule dependent mechanism for specifying axial cell growth in the expanding hypocotyl independent of any mechanical role in microtubule array organization .
we obtained arabidopsis lines with tdna insertions in the and genes from publically available seed collections . we confirmed multiple alleles for both genes by dna sequencing . and contain tdna insertions in the fifth exon of and nucleotides from the left exon border respectively and upstream of the mt binding site . we obtained three tdna insertion lines for and identified their insertion sites as nucleotides into the reported untranslated region and and both positioned within nucleotides upstream of the utr . the relative amounts of and mrna present in the tdna alleles were measured using quantitative rt pcr . both alleles produced significantly less full length mrna than wild type seedlings . the amount of mrna was not significantly reduced in the allele and appeared to be increased in the and alleles . immunoblots performed using antibodies raised against that show cross reactivity to revealed markedly lower protein levels in and and a slight reduction in . protein levels do not appear markedly different for the and alleles . the double mutant shows a substantial reduction in total protein level despite the apparent increase in mrna for the allele . we created an artificial microrna to the utr of and placed it under a dexamethasone inducible promoter . we transformed the into the mutant background to create a synthetic double mutant . single lines are not reported owing to the possibility of secondary targeting of mrna due to the high sequence similarity between the two genes . we observed that continuous dex treatment produces a > knockdown in mrna for d old seedlings compared with solvent treated controls . dex treatment had no apparent effect on protein levels in control plants and the synthetic double mutant had reduced levels of protein as indicated by immunoblots . we investigated the role of and in axial cell growth by comparing hypocotyl length in mutant and wild type seedlings . seedlings were grown at either on agar plates or in liquid culture for d in complete darkness to evaluate maximum hypocotyl extension . neither of the homozygous tdna alleles showed a significant difference in hypocotyl length when compared with wild type plants in this terminal growth assay . the tdna allele showed a trend toward shorter hypocotyl length . the and mutants reached only and of wild type length respectively both significant when compared with wild type plants . to test for genetic interactions between and we crossed and alleles to create a homozygous double mutant line . double mutant hypocotyls were significantly shorter than those measured in dark grown wild type plants reaching only of columbia length . hypocotyl length in the double mutant is also significantly shorter than hypocotyl length in the allele indicating a genetic interaction . light grown hypocotyl length in the double mutant was also significantly shorter than in wild type plants . continuous dex induction of in the background further reduced hypocotyl length to < of wild type length after d of growth . synthetic double mutant plants grown without dex treatment were not different in length from wild type plants . dex treatment had no measurable effect on hypocotyl length in wild type col or in plants _PROTEIN_ green _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ from the same dex inducible vector . to determine whether the hypocotyl phenotype was attributable to interphase growth or to defects in cell division we counted the number of epidermal cells per file in double mutant hypocotyls . cell number per file did not differ between wild type and double mutant plants . these data show that is required for proper axial extension of the hypocotyl cells and that plays a contributing role in the absence of . the general growth habit and size of mutant alleles grown on agar plates for > d in continuous light did not differ substantively from wild type plants except in the case of the synthetic double mutant grown on dex supplemented media . we tested the causal relationship between the verified tdna insertions and the hypocotyl growth phenotypes by creating transgenic plants _PROTEIN_ or as _METHOD_ protein fusions . we created n terminal _METHOD_ protein fusions using genomic dna sequences for both and driven by and kb fragments of genomic dna cloned upstream of the respective genes . to evaluate fusion protein function we transformed both fusion constructs into the double mutant and subjected the transgenic lines to hypocotyl elongation assays . the double tdna mutant was used because single alleles lack a phenotype and the single alleles show a weak phenotype . _PROTEIN_ of _METHOD_ in the double mutant restored etiolated hypocotyl elongation from to of wild type length . this hypocotyl length is significantly shorter than that of wild type plants and similar to that of the single mutant allele . _PROTEIN_ of mcherry in the double mutant produced hypocotyls that were slightly longer than those of wild type plants . we additionally coexpressed both _METHOD_ and mcherry constitutively from cauliflower mosaic virus promoters in wild type plants and found no additional gain in hypocotyl length beyond that found with _PROTEIN_ of the native promoter mcherry in the double mutant background . together these data provide evidence that the mutant growth phenotype is due to the tdna insertions in the respective and genes and indicate that the _METHOD_ and mcherry fusion proteins are functional in plants . our terminal hypocotyl growth assays indicated that is required for axial hypocotyl extension and that may have an auxiliary role . to further probe the function of and in axial hypocotyl extension we placed additional stress on plants and evaluated growth under these sensitized conditions . we grew wild type and double tdna mutant plants in a concentration series of the mt polymerization inhibitor oryzalin or the cellulose synthase inhibitor isoxoben both previously shown to exaggerate growth defects in plants with cytoskeletal defects . we observed that both drugs affect wild type and mutant plants starting at the same drug concentrations and have proportionally similar effects on hypocotyl length across all drug concentrations . we found no evidence for supersensitivity to either drug . plant growth rate and cytoskeletal dynamics are both influenced by ambient temperature and in vitro studies have suggested that can stabilize mts against depolymerization at low temperatures . to determine if or are attuned to modulating growth at a specific temperature range we grew wild type and mutant plants at normal cold and warm temperatures for d in the dark and compared hypocotyl lengths . we observed that growth at different temperatures does not change the proportional growth of the wild type and mutant plants under these conditions . our terminal growth assays indicated that these and mutant alleles do not show a supersensitivity phenotype to temperature . gibberellic acid _PROTEIN_ increases the rate of hypocotyl growth in arabidopsis seedlings and has been shown to bias cortical mt orientation toward transverse coalignment . we assayed dark grown wild type and double tdna mutant seedlings for hypocotyl growth effects across a range of _PROTEIN_ concentrations . we observed that d of _PROTEIN_ treatment increases the terminal length of both wild type and mutant hypocotyls . wild type plants reached maximum lengths that were longer than untreated plants while mutant hypocotyls increased from of the length of untreated wild type hypocotyls to . these data indicated that the mutant growth phenotype is not exaggerated by the stress of _PROTEIN_ addition that the mutant has the capacity for further hypocotyl elongation and that _PROTEIN_ does not fully rescue the hypocotyl growth defect . mutations in maps and application of mt specific small molecule inhibitors often lead to defects in cellular morphogenesis . to visualize the hypocotyl surface in live plants without chemical fixation or dehydration we stained cell walls with propidium iodide and imaged the cells using confocal laser scanning microscopy . we created surface projections from each axial image series using software . seedlings were imaged at d postgermination to show the details of wild type and mutant cells on a comparable scale . hypocotyl cells in the single and double tdna mutants formed distinct cell files in dark grown seedlings and showed no obvious swelling or cellular deformation . we observed no twisting or rotation of hypocotyls in the etiolated tdna mutant alleles or the dex induced synthetic double mutant . the epidermal cells are shorter than wild type cells as evidenced by the position of the cross walls . due to the severe growth retardation we compared cell morphology of the dex induced synthetic double mutant to younger wild type plants having a similar epidermal cell size . we observe that the d old synthetic double mutant has a subtle qualitative difference in cell shape but no obvious morphological defects suggesting that cell growth is arrested rather than aberrant . we additionally compared our synthetic double mutant to etiolated wild type plants that were continuously treated with oryzalin . the oryzalin treated wild type plants reach about the same hypocotyl length as our synthetic double mutant but contain highly distorted epidermal cells that are larger than those in the dex treated synthetic double mutant . continuous oryzalin treatment of the dex induced synthetic double mutant produced epidermal cells with the same obvious cell swelling observed for wild type plants with cells that were visibly much larger than cells in the mutant not treated with oryzalin . these data show that the mutant has not lost the capacity for cell growth per se and that mts are required for the retardation of growth observed in these mutants . together these experiments indicate that the principal observed defect in mutant plants is a mt dependent growth arrest and not a defect in creating the correct cell shape . to determine the spatiotemporal _PROTEIN_ of and during hypocotyl growth we transformed the native promoter _METHOD_ and _METHOD_ constructs into and alleles respectively yielding genomic fusion protein _PROTEIN_ from the native promoters in the appropriate mutant backgrounds _METHOD_ _METHOD_ . using these lines as translational gene _PROTEIN_ reporters we evaluated the pattern of _METHOD_ and _METHOD_ accumulation in living seedlings using confocal laser scanning microscopy . consistent with the growth phenotypes both _METHOD_ and _METHOD_ were visible in all epidermal hypocotyl cells at all examined times from germination to d postgermination . localization was observed in both light and dark grown seedlings with no marked _PROTEIN_ gradients or obvious cell specific differences . we find that _METHOD_ and _METHOD_ show completely overlapping _PROTEIN_ patterns in the hypocotyl epidermis . the absence of _METHOD_ and _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ in the upper portions of the root demonstrates tissue specific control of and accumulation during seedling development . we examined the intracellular localization of _METHOD_ and _METHOD_ in their respective mutant backgrounds using confocal laser scanning microscopy . we observed linear structures presumed to be mt bundles organized into transverse oblique longitudinal and less organized array patterns in cells from light grown plants . using genomic promoters we found no evidence for hyperbundling of arrays and no obvious preference for transverse array orientation to the growth axis of the cell in these light grown plants . to determine whether and labeled different structures in the same cell we created transgenic plants that coexpress _METHOD_ and mcherry under native promoters in the double mutant background . we created emission bandwidths with the microscope spectral detector to eliminate crosstalk between _METHOD_ and mcherry signal and verified channel spatial alignment with double labeled _METHOD_ particles prior to imaging . observations on three independently derived transgenic lines revealed complete colocalization of and in all epidermal hypocotyl cells and in all mt array organizations . we observed and reporters on all cell faces using reconstructions of serial optical sections from light grown epidermal cells . the anticlinal side and end faces were labeled with and . localization was continuous from periclinal to anticlinal structures in many cases where the density of labeling allowed for unambiguous tracing of the filaments . one critical exception to the observation that and are present on all cell faces is found in young light grown seedlings . hypocotyl cells at to d postgermination displayed transversely coaligned arrays of and on the surface and anticlinal side faces of the cell . in these cases we observe that and are absent at the apical and basal anticlinal end faces . when viewed along the plant growth axis reconstructions of these epidermal cells show no observable labeling at the interface between sequential cells in the cell file . to covisualize with mts we created double transgenic plant lines _PROTEIN_ either mcherry or mcherry and a constitutively _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ tubulin transgene _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ . we found that mcherry and mcherry when _PROTEIN_ from native promoters and in their respective tdna mutant backgrounds localized exclusively to mts throughout the cortical array including the anticlinal side and end faces of cells . we observed that not all mts were labeled . unbundled mts identified by their dynamic exposed free ends exhibited barely detectable levels of mcherry or mcherry . we also observed regions of _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ having higher relative brightness than unbundled mts that were not labeled with or . these unlabeled regions often appeared as gaps within a linear trace of or labeling . consistent with in vitro observations we observed mcherry and mcherry localized to regions of antiparallel mt overlap in vivo . the antiparallel structure of the mt bundle was inferred from time lapse observation of two unbundled mts polymerizing toward each other to form the bundle . we observed the labeling to coincide spatially and temporally with the polymerizing end of the bundling mt . while we found no direct evidence for or labeling of parallel mt bundles the complexity of the labeling patterns precluded our strictly ruling out this possibility or the possibility that some antiparallel mt overlaps remain unlabeled . we conclude from our observations that and label a subset of cortical array mt bundles a major portion of which are antiparallel mts . orthologs in mammalian and fungal _METHOD_ work with other maps to modify the dynamic properties of bundled mts . to examine the dynamic properties of the labeled regions we made time lapse observations of the _METHOD_ and _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ lines . the labeling exhibited episodes of extension and retraction in time lapse movies . kymographs made from linear traces of labeling in time lapse experiments show phases of extension fast retraction and slow retraction consistent with previously defined phases of mt plus end growth plus end shortening and the slower minus end shortening associated with mt treadmilling respectively . we additionally observed apparent transitions between phases and evidence for paused _METHOD_ label that could arise due to a paused mt end intrabundle nucleation or a junction site where a treadmilling mt has initiated a bundle . consistent with the time lapse colocalization data for mcherry and _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ we found that the velocity of mt growth measured from unbundled mts was equivalent to the rate of label extension . rates for fast retraction and slow retraction were also found to be equivalent to rates of plus end depolymerization and minus end depolymerization in these light grown cells . therefore does not appear to alter the growth or shortening velocities of mts within bundles and we find that antiparallel bundled mts appear to create and remove binding sites coincident with polymerization and depolymerization respectively . intrabundle catastrophe and rescue were not measured using the probes because we can not unambiguously discriminate between these events and mts that are entering or leaving sites of antiparallel overlap within a bundle . we commonly observed kymographs that had triangular shapes consistent with mts polymerizing in opposite directions to create antiparallel mt overlaps . we also observed labeled structures that had multiple and overlapping extension and retraction events within the related kymographs consistent with the presence of multiple dynamic mts within the bundle . to determine how much of the labeled portion of the mt array is dynamic we compared maximum and minimum intensity projections from our time lapse image data . the maximum intensity projections indicate the total extent of _METHOD_ labeling in the array over a min period . when compared with the first image in the time lapse series the maximum intensity image shows longer linear structures that cover a large portion of the cell face . the minimum intensity projection shows that nearly all labeled structures do not remain labeled with over the entire min period . kymographs made from regions of the minimum intensity projection image with residual _METHOD_ label contained highly dynamic labeling with evidence for overlapping extension and retraction events . these persistent labeled regions appear to be dynamic sites where multiple overlapping mt bundles intersect rather than individual stabilized mt bundles . we find that the labeled mt bundles in these cells are predominantly composed of dynamic mts that create and remove binding sites through intrabundle polymerization and depolymerization . biochemical and structural studies show that proteins form homodimers that associate into mt bundles . noting the extensive cellular colocalization and gene similarity shared between and we used _METHOD_ redistribution after photobleaching to assess the likelihood that and form heterodimers that bind to mt bundles . we reasoned that if a significant fraction of the proteins heterodimerize before insertion into the bundle their recovery time after bleaching should be equivalent or overlapping . using a confocal laser scanning microscope we photobleached _METHOD_ _METHOD_ or mcherry in to regions of individual bundles in single or double labeled transgenic plants where the native protein level is diminished . accumulation on unbundled mts was too low in vivo for frap measurement suggesting that has a relatively rapid off rate when not bridging mts . we determined a mean half time of recovery of s for _METHOD_ in bundles consistent with prior measurements . we find a of s for mcherry in bundles showing that has a more transient interaction at bundle sites than . our data are consistent with and forming homodimers that enter and leave bundles on different time scales . axial growth of plant cells is strongly correlated with transversely coaligned organization of the cortical mt array . to assess cortical mt array organization in hypocotyl cells deficient for and we created plants _PROTEIN_ a _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ transgene in the synthetic double mutant . since the nm light used for _METHOD_ excitation signals transverse mt arrays to reorganize we rapidly mounted and transferred dark grown seedlings to the microscope for imaging . we observed that mt arrays in both the wild type and dex induced synthetic double mutant plants exhibit predominantly coaligned mt arrays oriented transversely or slightly oblique to the plant growth axis . mt density spacing and relative orientation do not appear qualitatively different between wild type and mutant arrays . observations of mt arrays in light grown plants revealed no obvious differences in mt array organization when wild type plants were compared with the dex induced synthetic double mutant . consistent with prior observations of wild type plants kymographs made from time lapse images of _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ mts in the wild type and synthetic double mutant indicate that the mts show no obvious _PROTEIN_ movement on the cell cortex and do not slide apart in the absence of . we used frap on circular regions of cells _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ to determine if the global mt dynamic properties are changed in the synthetic double mutant . recovery times of s for wild type plants and s in dex treated synthetic double mutants reveal no substantive difference in mt dynamic properties in deficient plants . _METHOD_ recovery normalized for the bleaching that occurs during time lapse imaging reached > for both wild type and mutant mt arrays suggesting that most of the mts turn over in both mutant and wild type plants in the min duration of the experiment . to functionally test the ability of the synthetic double mutants to form transverse and coaligned mt arrays we treated d old light grown seedlings with _PROTEIN_ and visualized the mt array by confocal microscopy h after treatment . for both the wild type and dex induced synthetic double mutant we found that _PROTEIN_ treatment led to coaligned mt arrays organized transverse to the plant growth axis . we observed that the degree of mt coalignment was visually indistinguishable from control plants treated with _PROTEIN_ . these data indicate that reduction of and levels does not significantly impede the mts from organizing into an array that is transversely coaligned to the plant growth axis .
arabidopsis thaliana seeds were surface sterilized in an aqueous solution of hydrogen peroxide and ethanol . seeds were sown on half strength murashige and skoog _METHOD_ media solidified with agar with no added sugar source . all seeds were incubated for d at in the dark before being placed in a percival incubator with continuous light . dark grown plants were exposed to light for to h in the incubator and then wrapped in a double layer of aluminum foil or placed in a light tight box . full length genomic clones for and genes were pcr amplified from arabidopsis col dna verified by complete sequencing and inserted into binary plasmid vectors . mcherry or _METHOD_ sequences were amplified without the termination codon and cloned upstream of both genes . genomic sequence upstream of both and was cloned and inserted upstream of the _METHOD_ protein sequence to drive gene _PROTEIN_ . inducible artificial microrna constructs were created by pcr amplification of distinct sequence regions from according to citation and insertion between flanking regions of the _PROTEIN_ microrna . the artificial micrornas were subsequently cloned into the binary vector for dex inducible transcription . all sequence confirmed constructs were transformed into agrobacterium tumefacians strain for use in plant transformations . arabidopsis plants were transformed via the floral dip method . prior to transformation bacterial cultures were resuspended in a virulence induction medium containing mm acetosyringone for to h. bacteria were resuspended in water containing suc and silwet l immediately prior to dipping . transgenic plants were selected on half strength _METHOD_ plates supplemented with _PROTEIN_ and either kanamycin or hygromycin . seeds were incubated on plates for d at in darkness exposed to to h of light wrapped in foil and placed vertically in an incubator . plants were grown for d at before measurement . oryzalin supersensitivity and dex induction assays were performed in ml of liquid half strength _METHOD_ culture . ethanol was used for mock treatment of dex . hypocotyl length was measured using imagej _PROTEIN_ from images taken on a stereoscopic microscope . graphs were created with kaleidograph . seedlings were mounted in liquid half strength _METHOD_ between a glass slide and a cover slip held together with silicone vacuum grease . mounted seedlings were rested for > min before imaging . _METHOD_ images were created using a leica microscope with an acousto optical beam splitter system for creating spectral emission windows . we used either a numerical aperture water immersion n.a. oil immersion n.a. or water immersion n.a . lens using nm excitation for _METHOD_ and nm excitation for mcherry probes . frap was performed using the leica live cell frap tool for one or two color channels on the leica and setting initial detector values to of maximum . for fusion proteins regions of individual bundles were highlighted for bleaching and recovery using flanking regions of the bundle for estimation of photobleaching . single exponential functions were fit to photobleach corrected average pixel intensity data and the half time to recovery was calculated from a least squares best fit model . for mt arrays diameter circles were bleached and recovery was plotted from time lapse frames taken at s intervals for min . for fitting all data were normalized for imaging related photobleaching during postbleach time lapse and the average of all experimental traces from the wild type or synthetic double mutant was fit with a single exponential curve . surface rendering of hypocotyls was created from through focal series of propidium iodide stained hypocotyls . hypocotyls were stained for h in propidium iodide and silwet in half strength liquid _METHOD_ media . the nm laser line was used to excite the stain and the acousto optical beam splitter was set to capture to nm light emission . optical stacks of images were rendered using imaris bitplane software . rna was extracted from d old light grown seedlings using the spectrum plant total rna kit . cdna was produced from ng of total rna using superscript iii reverse transcriptase . relative rna amounts were determined by qpcr using the brilliant ii sybr green qpcr master mix and qpcr system . a comparative ct method was used to determine relative quantities where goi is the gene of interest . qpcr was performed in triplicate on three different biological samples . a clathrin _PROTEIN_ subunit was used for normalization . transcript specific primer sequences are as follows gccttgagatagagagcccataaag _PROTEIN_ tgccttgcctcttgggcgc cgggcaagcaagtccaagagagacag _PROTEIN_ aagccatcactgggtcagcacgag _GENE_ tggtaatccagaaatccgtttagc _GENE_ _PROTEIN_ acccctgaacctgaagaactcc . protein extracts were created by grinding seedlings in liquid nitrogen for s using plastic pestles in ml centrifuge tubes before adding _PROTEIN_ solubilization buffer . solubilization buffer contained a protease inhibitor cocktail and dtt . samples were boiled for min followed by maximum speed centrifugation for min . protein samples and benchmark prestained protein ladder were loaded onto polyacrylimade gels and subjected to electrophoresis . protein loading was assessed by comparing lanes from _METHOD_ brilliant blue stained gels and adjusting load volumes for immunoblots . for blotting protein was transferred electrophoretically to nitrocellulose _LOCATION_ and the _LOCATION_ was blocked overnight in nonfat milk and incubated with anti antibody diluted for > h followed by incubation in secondary anti rabbit sera > h. immunoblots were developed using the pierce ecl reagent and classic blue autoradiography bx film . kymographs were generated from time lapse images of cells _PROTEIN_ both mcherry and _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ . from kymographs the rate of growth and shortening was determined by measuring the slope of the excursions and correcting for pixels per micrometer . measurements for mcherry and _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ were made in the same cells and were generated from cells total taken from three different plants . sequence data from this article can be found in the arabidopsis genome initiative or genbank/embl databases under the following accession numbers _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and clathrin _PROTEIN_ protein . the following materials are available in the online version of this article . supplemental figure . protein gel blots and loading controls for determining relative protein levels in mutant alleles . supplemental figure . terminal hypocotyl length for plant lines used . supplemental figure . dex dependent _PROTEIN_ and control for dex effects on hypocotyl growth . supplemental figure . light grown and combinatorial mutants . supplemental figure . _METHOD_ redistribution after photobleaching of mts in the wild type and synthetic double mutant . supplemental movie . coincident mcherry labeling of an antiparallel microtubule interaction . supplemental movie . _METHOD_ time lapse images . supplemental movie legends .
