in higher plant cells microtubules are nucleated and organized in a centrosome independent manner . it is unclear whether augmin dependent _METHOD_ underlie spindle mt organization in plant cells as they do in animal cells . when augmin which encodes a homolog of animal dim tubulin augmin like complex subunit was disrupted in arabidopsis thaliana gametogenesis frequently failed due to defects in cell division . compared with the control microspores which formed bipolar spindles at the cell periphery the mutant cells often formed peripheral half spindles that only attached to condensed chromosomes or formed elongated spindles with unfocused interior poles . in addition defective cells exhibited disorganized phragmoplast mt arrays which caused aborted cytokinesis . the resulting pollen grains were either shrunken or contained two _LOCATION_ in an undivided cytoplasm . was localized along mts in the spindle and phragmoplast and its signal was pronounced in anaphase spindle poles . an green _METHOD_ protein fusion exhibited a dynamic distribution pattern similar to that of the tubulin complex . when was enriched from seedlings by affinity chromatography was detected by immunoblotting suggesting an augmin like complex was present in vivo . we conclude that augmin plays a critical role in mt organization during plant cell division .
when the amino acid sequences of human augmin subunits were compared with proteins encoded by the arabidopsis genome it was found that the amino acid protein shares noticeable sequence homology to the amino acid . is relatively acidic with a pi of . this feature is shared by its human counterpart which has an isoelectric point of . putatively orthologous proteins were identified in rice and moss with high sequence identity/similarity . the limited sequence homology between and or raised the question of whether it truly functioned as the counterparts in the animal augmin complexes . a t dna insertional mutation in the exon was detected in heterozygous plants that were isolated from a community generated t dna pool . when the progeny of a heterozygous plant was analyzed no homozygous mutants were recovered indicating that is likely an essential gene . among the progeny had the genotype while the remaining were / . when the siliques produced by the plant were examined aborted embryos and unfertilized ovules were frequently observed together with mature seeds . compared with the siliques of a wild type plant which produced mature seeds and unfertilized ovules those of had mature seeds unfertilized ovules and aborted embryos . thus we believed that the distorted genetic segregation exhibited by the plant was likely due to the combination of gamete sterility and embryo lethality . based on results of reciprocal crosses between and wild type plants it was found that the fertility of both male and female was affected . the transmission efficiency of the mutation through the male gamete was and that through the female gamete was . thus we speculated that is an essential protein . we first examined developing pollen grains to assess the function of . when the _LOCATION_ was stained with the dna specific dye diamidino phenylindole almost all pollen grains collected from mature anthers of the wild type plant had two brightly stained sperm _LOCATION_ and one faint vegetative _LOCATION_ . among the pollen grains produced by the plant however were trinucleate . in the remaining pollen grains contained two _LOCATION_ of one brightly stained generative _LOCATION_ and one faint vegetative _LOCATION_ . in addition pollen grains included only one _LOCATION_ and were shrunken in which no discernible _LOCATION_ could be visualized by dapi staining . to test whether the phenotype was caused by meiotic defects we continued to examine the pollen grains produced by qrt/qrt plants . the qrt/qrt pollen grains failed to separate so that tetrad analysis was made possible . the qrt/qrt plant always produced four attached pollen grains but shrunken pollen grains were often found to be attached to well enlarged ones . such a phenotype was not observed in pollen produced by the control qrt/qrt plant . this result suggests that is likely required for mitotic cell division as revealed by defects in pollen mitosis caused by the mutation . because no homozygous mutant was obtained it was not tested whether the mutation caused a partial or complete loss of function . we also examined how affected female gametophyte development and embryogenesis in the ovules produced by the qrt/qrt mutant plants . a wild type female gametophyte/embryo sac contained an egg cell two synergids and a central cell with a conspicuous _LOCATION_ . defective embryo sacs were found and had a single enlarged _LOCATION_ . following pollination the control ovule produced a proembryo with distinct cell morphology which was surrounded by cellularized endosperm . in comparison the mutant plant produced defective stalk like embryo structures and did not show obvious cellularization . in addition a few _LOCATION_ were found to float near the defective embryo indicating that mitotic divisions were blocked during endosperm development . it was believed that the brownish aborted seeds were derived from ovules containing these defective embryos . to confirm that the phenotype exhibited by the plant was linked to the t dna insertion mutant plants were transformed with a construct _PROTEIN_ an myc fusion protein driven by its native promoter . among > transformants bearing the genotype two were randomly selected for testing the functionality of the fusion protein and rendered an identical conclusion . in one example we analyzed genotypes of the progeny of transformed with the myc transgene . they gave a ratio of for positive to negative offspring . this result indicated that the distorted segregation ratio of was suppressed when myc was _PROTEIN_ . we concluded that the above described defects in gametogenesis and embryogenesis were most likely caused by the inactivation of . it also indicated that the myc fusion was functional . the defects in male gametogenesis caused by the mutation were further analyzed by comparing mt organization during mitosis in the mutant and wild type control . when the control microspores underwent mitosis bipolar spindles were assembled toward the periphery of the cell . the peripheral half spindle had its wide pole anchored at or near the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ and the interior half spindle had mts converged at a single pole pointing to the center of the cell . disorganized spindle mts were observed in mutant cells . abundant mts connected condensed chromosomes to the cell cortex . while the peripheral half spindles contained abundant mt bundles few mts were detected in the interior part of the spindle and connected to the chromosomes . in these defective pollen grains exhibiting such a half spindle phenotype chromosomes were not aligned in the metaphase plate which could be caused by an imbalanced number of mts on two sides of the condensed chromosomes . some developing pollen grains exhibited milder defects in spindle mt organization . in the metaphase spindles the interior half spindle did not have kinetochore fibers that converged to an obvious pole . in addition the spindle clearly crossed the center of the pollen grain and was elongated when compared with the control spindles . such defects were not observed in control pollen grains undergoing mitosis . among developing pollen grains at metaphase produced by the heterozygous plant exhibited the half spindle phenotype had defective spindles like that shown in figure and the remaining bore normal spindles as seen in the control cells . at _PROTEIN_ anaphase and telophase the control spindles were still restricted to one side of the cell and had mt bundles formed in the midzone . in defective cells at similar stages elongated spindles almost reached the full diameter of the pollen grains and showed rich long bundles in the midzone . during cytokinesis in the control cell mts reorganized into a curved phragmoplast array by which a curved cell plate would be brought about as marked by a dark midline in antitubulin _METHOD_ . defective phragmoplasts in the mutant cells often had loosely packed and disorganized mts which appeared between two reforming _LOCATION_ . such defective phragmoplasts would result in failed cytokinesis . because the myc fusion protein was functional we used anti c myc antibodies to detect the fusion protein in transgenic plants _PROTEIN_ the protein . when root meristematic cells were examined conspicuous punctate signals were detected in spindles and phragmoplasts . no noticeable signal was detected in wild type control cells using the identical anti c myc antibodies . myc was prominent on the prophase _LOCATION_ envelope decorating mts in the prophase spindle by _METHOD_ . in metaphase cells the punctate anti myc signal distributed along mts of kinetochore fiber . at anaphase the myc fusion protein became particularly prominent toward two spindle poles and less signal was detected among midzone mts between two sets of segregated chromosomes . at telophase when midzone mts developed into a bipolar phragmoplast mt array as highlighted by a dark antitubulin line in the middle myc appeared along phragmoplast mts . in cells bearing a mature phragmoplast punctate myc signal appeared along mts . however the myc _METHOD_ had a wider dark zone encompassing the developing cell plate compared with that of antitubulin . the localization pattern suggested a possible bias toward mt minus ends as shown by anti tubulin _METHOD_ . to further reveal the dynamics of in cell division a functional green _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ fusion protein was _PROTEIN_ under the control of its native promoter to resolve its activity in live cells continuously during mitosis . the _METHOD_ signal was readily detected in the mitotic spindle at metaphase in a root meristematic cell undergoing mitosis . conspicuous _METHOD_ signal was detected at the spindle poles when the cell entered anaphase especially at _PROTEIN_ stages of anaphase . at _PROTEIN_ anaphase and telophase the _METHOD_ signal became noticeable in the spindle midzone although not as prominent as that at the spindle poles . while the _METHOD_ signal diminished at the spindle poles when the cell progressed toward cytokinesis it became more striking in the midzone . the appearance of _METHOD_ in the phragmoplast left behind a wide dark region in the center indicating that did not appear at or near the mt plus ends in the phragmoplast midzone . instead _METHOD_ might have decorated mt minus ends . dual localization of myc and tubulin by _METHOD_ showed that they both decorated anaphase spindle poles and phragmoplast similarly . the spatial and temporal localization pattern of _METHOD_ reminded us of that of a _METHOD_ fusion of the tubulin complex subunit _PROTEIN_ . indeed the _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ fusion gave a very similar dynamic localization pattern as _METHOD_ reported in dividing cells . for example _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ also marked the anaphase spindle poles . in addition the _METHOD_ _METHOD_ left a wide gap in the middle of the phragmoplast a pattern shown by _METHOD_ as well . the comparable localization patterns of _METHOD_ and _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ allowed us to conclude that likely colocalized with the tubulin complex in the mitotic spindle and phragmoplast . because and _PROTEIN_ exhibited similar localization patterns we asked whether the localization of tubulin would be altered in the mutant cells . using the antibody tubulin was detected in the phragmoplast of a dividing microspore . the localization of tubulin differed from that of mts by presenting a wide dark gap in the middle region . in a developing pollen grain of the mutant bearing a defective phragmoplast mt array however the tubulin signal was no longer concentrated along the mts . instead the signal became largely diffuse in the _LOCATION_ . thus we concluded that is critical for the accumulation of tubulin during mitosis . this result is similar to the finding that the augmin complex plays a role in tubulin localization during mitosis in animal cells . furthermore we would like to suggest that the disorganized and defective spindle mt arrays exhibited by the mutant cells were probably the result of altered localization of tubulin in dividing microspores . besides encodes a amino acid protein that shares limited sequence identity to the amino acid protein . is an acidic protein with a calculated pi of . again this feature is shared by which has a pi of . it was suggested that the human protein did not have an obvious homolog in fly and worm . the homology between and prompted us to test whether the protein was associated with in vivo . to do so the functional myc fusion protein was enriched from the aforementioned transgenic seedling by an immobilized anti c myc antibody . this protein fraction was subject to immunoblotting using anti c myc and anti antibodies separately . the myc protein was detected at the position of apparent molecular _METHOD_ of kd . the anti antibody detected a band at kd which was consistent with the predicted molecular weight of . these bands were absent from the fraction derived from the extract of wild type seedlings suggesting that they were specific . furthermore when the anti antibodies were preabsorbed with the fusion protein used as the antigen the kd band was no longer detected . this result suggested that the anti antibodies specifically recognized the endogenous protein . if and were in the same complex they would exhibit similar localization patterns . we tested localization by _PROTEIN_ an _METHOD_ fusion under the control of its native promoter in stable transgenic lines and imaged its localization over time in a mitotic cell . similarly to what was observed for _METHOD_ _METHOD_ exhibited conspicuous localization at anaphase spindle poles . the signal gradually appeared in the midzone . again its localization in the phragmoplast left a wide gap in the midzone similar to that presented by the _METHOD_ and _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ fusion . thus the finding that and have a similar localization pattern supports the notion that and interact in vivo and are most likely in an augmin like complex .
the arabidopsis thaliana lines used in this study are control columbia and the mutant line made available to us by the _PROTEIN_ at ohio state university . full length and cdna clones were generated by the arabidopsis research community . plant growth conditions and transformation procedures were as described previously . the t dna insertion at the locus was detected by pcr using the primers _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ tggttcacgtagtgggccatcg . the wild type allele was detected by and ggaacaagtgagagacaatggattgaagcc . back crosses with wild type plants were performed to confirm that the observed phenotypes were linked to the t dna insertion . methods used in phenotypic characterization of the defects brought about by the mutation were as described previously . pollen grains were collected from mature anthers of open flowers . to determine the terminal phenotype of the embryo sac ovules were dissected from pistils h after emasculation of the flowers . defects in male gametogenesis were detected by dna staining using dapi and those in female gametogenesis and embryogenesis by differential interference contrast microscopy after clearing . a kb genomic fragment containing the promoter region and the coding sequence was amplified by pcr using the primers f cacctttcgttaaaatgttcaatattttaacaaaaacaaaaatg and r tgcgcctgcgcccgatgatgaggcttggcgagcacgaac and phusion dna polymerase . amplified dna was cloned into the gateway pentr/d topo vector according to the manufacturer s instructions . the resulting plasmid was recombined with the vector by an lr recombination reaction . consequently the plasmid was used for agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated transformation into the heterozygous mutant . the plasmid contained the myc tag coding sequence to allow a target protein to be tagged at the c terminus . therefore transformants would _PROTEIN_ the myc fusion protein at a level similar to that of the native protein . segregation patterns of t dna insertions were determined by pcr based genotyping as described above using progeny derived from an untransformed heterozygous mutant and two independent transformants . the aforementioned genomic fragment was cloned into the destination vector by recombination to give rise to which was used for transformation . a kb fragment of was amplified from a genomic dna preparation by pcr using the primers f caccttttgaaattt tttgcttcacattttatac and r tgcgcctgcgccctcatcgtttgtctcaagggctgattg . after being cloned into pentr/d topo this fragment was then inserted into to yield the plasmid which was used for transformation . the coding region of was amplified using the _PROTEIN_ plasmid as template by the primers _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and pfx dna polymerase . the resulting fragment was cloned into the pgex kg vector at the ncoi and saci sites after the fragment and vector were digested by these enzymes . the recombinant plasmids rendered the _PROTEIN_ of _PROTEIN_ fusion protein in bacteria host . the fusion protein was purified using immobilized glutathione according to the manufacturer s instructions and used as the antigen for immunization of mice . antibody production and purification were as described previously . proteins were extracted from control arabidopsis plants and transformants _PROTEIN_ the myc fusion . briefly d old etiolated seedlings were frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground to powder using a mortar and pestle . an extraction buffer of mm tris hcl ph containing mm nacl and triton x was added to the powder . the supernatant was collected after centrifugation at and filtration through a millex hv filter . the myc fusion protein was enriched by anti c myc antibody conjugated magnetic beads according to the manufacturer s instructions . proteins enriched for the c myc tagged proteins from arabidopsis seedlings were separated on a _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ gel before being transferred to polyvinylidene fluoride _LOCATION_ for immunoblotting . the myc fusion was detected by the anti c myc antibody and native by the antibodies described above . to confirm that the band detected by the anti antibodies was indeed the protein encoded by _GENE_ the antibodies were preabsorbed by the _PROTEIN_ fusion protein prior to immunoblotting . immunolocalization of tubulins in pollen grains was performed as described previously . the myc fusion protein was detected by rabbit anti c myc antibodies in root tip cells of transgenic lines using protocols described previously . mts were labeled by sheep antitubulin antibodies _LOCATION_ . images were acquired with a _PROTEIN_ plan fluor objective under an eclipse _METHOD_ microscope or a uplan apo under a deltavision microscope . to observe _METHOD_ signals seeds were germinated on agar medium containing half strength murashige and skoog salt . seedlings were observed under a marianas spinning disk confocal microscope using a plan apo objective . samples _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ fusions were illuminated at nm by a diode pumped solid state laser and the standard enhanced _METHOD_ setting was used for _METHOD_ capturing by an emccd camera driven by the slidebook software . figures and movies presented here were assembled in the metamorph or softworx software packages . the at and at genes were identified by the arabidopsis information resource as _GENE_ and _GENE_ and their cdna clones used in this study had the genbank accession numbers of and _PROTEIN_ respectively . the following materials are available in the online version of this article . supplemental figure . alignment of the sequences . supplemental figure . negative control of anti c myc immunolocalization . supplemental figure . dual localizations of and tubulin . supplemental figure . alignment of the and sequences . supplemental table . amino acid sequence identity and similarity among at os pp and . supplemental table . transmission efficiency of the mutation . supplemental table . amino acid sequence identity and similarity among at os pp and . supplemental movie . _METHOD_ pseudocolored in green in a dividing root cell . supplemental movie . _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ pseudocolored in green in a dividing root cell . supplemental movie . _METHOD_ pseudocolored in green in a dividing root cell .
