the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ is the primary site of freezing injury in plants . to determine global changes in pm protein profiles in association with freezing tolerance development proteome analysis of the purified pm of arabidopsis suspension cultured cells was conducted with label free protein quantification technology . freezing tolerance of arabidopsis cells at the lag growth phase increased after cold acclimation or aba treatment . proteome analysis assigned proteins in the pm in total of which were predicted to have transmembrane domains . they were classified into several functional categories with the primary categories being proteins in transporters signal transduction protein destination and storage and cell structure . after ca proteins increased and proteins _PROTEIN_ . aba treatment resulted in increased and _PROTEIN_ proteins . of these increased and _PROTEIN_ proteins were identified in common after both ca and aba treatment . in addition there were proteins specifically _PROTEIN_ in cold _PROTEIN_ or aba _PROTEIN_ treated cells . collectively our results clearly show that responses of the pm proteome to ca and aba treatment overlap substantially but at the same time some proteins exhibited different response patterns in each treatment and the majority of aba responsive proteins are ca responsive proteins but not vice versa suggesting complex interactions of ca and aba signaling pathways in the pm proteome responses .
arabidopsis suspension cultured cells at the lag growth phase responded well to ca and aba treatment . because there were no differences in survival rates after freeze thawing determined by the regrowth method and the triphenyltetrazolium chloride assay the ttc assay protocol was used for the present study which is suitable for determination of survival with a large number of samples . survival rates declined at all temperatures in the control cells mortality occurred between and . after ca for d the survival rates were significantly improved survival did not decline until the temperature _PROTEIN_ to or below . even at approximately of cells survived . when cells were treated with or aba freezing tolerance increased the aba treatment was the most effective in increasing survival rates throughout the range of temperatures tested . the survival of aba treated cells after a freeze thaw cycle was similar to that of ca cells no _PROTEIN_ in survival was observed until the temperature declined to or below . survival at was even better in aba treated cells than in ca cells . these results indicate that similar increased freezing tolerance of arabidopsis suspension cultured cells at the lag growth phase occurs after ca and aba treatment . we identified proteins in the pm from the arabidopsis suspension cultured cells using the ncbi arabidopsis database because the data in the ncbi database are updated more frequently than those in the tair database . for subsequent analyses _PROTEIN_ accessions from ncbi were converted to tair _PROTEIN_ accessions and only _PROTEIN_ accessions were used . the molecular _METHOD_ of the identified proteins ranged from to kda with of them ranging from to kda . the pi values also ranged from to . when we merged these results and checked overlapping proteins proteins out of identified proteins were predicted to have transmembrane domains . subcellular localization predicted with targetp revealed that of proteins were secreted proteins suggesting an association with the pm . among the secreted proteins proteins were suggested by tair and proteins were curated by the _PROTEIN_ laboratory as pm proteins . of the proteins targeted to mitochondria identified by targetp two were associated with the pm according to the tair or _PROTEIN_ databases . among proteins with no predicted subcellular targeting by the targetp program proteins were targeted to the pm by the _PROTEIN_ database . collectively these results imply that most of the proteins identified in the present study are associated with the pm in arabidopsis cells . prediction of hydrophobic or amphiphilic helices by the aramemnon program revealed that proteins out of the identified had transmembrane domains . of these proteins had a single transmembrane domain and had multiple transmembrane domains . with the tmhmm database we found that proteins had transmembrane domains . furthermore of these proteins had a single transmembrane domain and had two or more transmembrane domains . further analysis revealed that the transmembrane domains of proteins were listed in both databases . the functional classification of proteins was performed based on functional categories previously described . the largest functional category of pm proteins was signal transduction followed by protein destination and storage and cell structure . functional categories that are well known to be associated with the pm were transporters intracellular traffic and disease/defense . in addition there were several other categories for pm proteins . lastly a relatively large number of proteins were not assigned their functions . these results were similar to data found in the arabidopsis pm protein database . a fold threshold value both for increased and _PROTEIN_ proteins was selected to extract proteins that changed in response to ca or aba treatment . according to the analysis of variance _PROTEIN_ results ca resulted in changes in proteins _PROTEIN_ and aba treatment resulted in changes in proteins _PROTEIN_ showing that a larger proportion of pm proteins were affected by cold . further analysis revealed that proteins increased in response to ca and/or aba and proteins _PROTEIN_ after ca and/or aba treatment . interestingly only a single protein sucrose proton symporter _PROTEIN_ showed different responses to the two treatments the abundance increased after ca treatment but _PROTEIN_ after aba treatment . in total pm proteins were identified as ca or aba responsive proteins . we found a number of pm proteins that responded to both ca and aba treatment . when we considered pm proteins showing responses to ca and aba _PROTEIN_ of the directions of the changes _PROTEIN_ about a half of ca responsive proteins also responded to aba treatment . those proteins corresponded to of aba responsive proteins . the proportions of proteins responding to only ca or aba or both ca and aba were similar when we analyzed pm proteins that increased or _PROTEIN_ in response to ca and aba . that is about half of the ca responsive proteins also responded to aba treatment which corresponded to approximately of aba responsive proteins . in general the proportions of proteins in each functional category were similar in ca and aba responsive proteins . this is also quite consistent with the results of whole pm proteins shown in fig . . the categories of cell structure protein destination and storage signal transduction and transporters were the major ones for the responsive proteins . detailed analysis of the data revealed some differences between ca and aba responsive proteins . for example the proportions in protein destination and storage and protein synthesis were somewhat greater in ca responsive proteins than in aba responsive proteins . further the proportions in cell structure and transporters were less in ca responsive proteins than in aba responsive pm proteins . when the responsive proteins were separated into increased and _PROTEIN_ proteins we found some differences between ca and aba treatment which might be interesting when we consider the ca and aba mediated pathways in plant freezing tolerance _METHOD_ . in the increased proteins the proportions of proteins that responded to both ca and aba treatments were generally high as mentioned above . in particular in the cell structure category of the ca increased proteins and of the aba increased proteins responded to both aba and ca treatments . six fasciclin like arabinogalactan proteins _PROTEIN_ and three pectinesterase proteins were included in the proteins increased after both treatments . another predominant protein group in this category was the glycosyl hydrolase family proteins _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ . conversely in the intracellular traffic category the proportions of proteins that responded to the two treatments were especially low of ca increased proteins and of aba increased proteins responded to both treatments . five proteins in the snare complex increased only after ca treatment . in the _PROTEIN_ proteins there were two major categories after ca and aba treatment . because there were very few proteins that responded to only aba treatment in all categories the majority of aba _PROTEIN_ proteins also _PROTEIN_ after ca treatment . this tendency was true when looking at ca _PROTEIN_ proteins . in summary the majority of the _PROTEIN_ proteins that responded to both ca and aba were shared by the two signal mediated pathways .
arabidopsis thaliana suspension cultured cells derived from seedlings of the ecotype columbia were subcultured at week intervals in jpl medium at on a rotary shaker under continuous light . cells at lag growth phase were used in our study . ca treatment was carried out by transferring the cells to a growth chamber with a h photoperiod for d. aba treatment was carried out for h at as described above . control ca and aba treated cells were used for freezing tolerance determination and pm proteome analysis . freezing tolerance of cells was determined according to the method reported previously . briefly cells were collected by centrifugation at g for min at room temperature and washed three times with sterilized water to avoid having _LOCATION_ sugar in the cultured medium . after suspension in sterilized water aliquots of suspension cells were put into glass tubes and placed on a table for min after which the cells had sedimented at the bottom and as much water as possible could be removed before freezing . freezing of cells was performed according to the method of citation . glass tubes containing cells were placed in ethanol in a program freezer _PROTEIN_ at for min after which the formation of ice was promoted by touching the tube with a metal spatula pre cooled in liquid nitrogen . after being kept at for h to ensure complete formation of ice in the samples cells were cooled down at a rate of in the program freezer . once they had reached the desired temperatures the samples were transferred to and thawed overnight in the dark . the survival rate of cells was determined by the ttc method after a freeze thaw cycle . an aliquot of ttc solution in m sodium phosphate buffer was added to each sample and incubated overnight in the dark at . the cells were then washed once with ml of distilled water and red formazan was extracted with ml of ethanol for h. the absorbance of the extract was read at nm _PROTEIN_ . survival rates were obtained as the ratios of absorbance of freeze thawed samples to control samples . five samples were analyzed for each temperature and treatment and the experiment was repeated at least three times independently . a two phase partition method was used to obtain pm fractions with high purity . the control ca and aba treated cells at the lag growth phase were collected and homogenized in a medium consisting of m sorbitol mm mops/koh polyvinylpyrrolidone defatted bovine serum albumin mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride mm salicylhydroxamic acid and mm potassium metabisulfite with a polytron for s at . after homogenization the homogenates were filtered through four layers of cheesecloth and the filtrates were centrifuged at at g for min and subsequently at g for min . the resultant microsomal fraction was suspended in a solution of m sucrose and mm buffer and centrifuged again at g for min for washing . after washing the microsomal suspensions were fractionated with an aqueous two polymer phase partition system consisting of polyethylene glycol and dextran in a solution of m sucrose mm nacl and mm buffer . the two phase partition was repeated three times at . the upper phase of the final two phase system was recovered and diluted with a washing solution and centrifuged at g at for min to remove the polymers . after one more centrifugation under the same conditions the resultant pm enriched pellet was suspended in the washing solution . the protein content in the pm fractions was determined by the bradford assay using bsa as a standard . the pm fraction obtained with this method was estimated to be of sufficient purity for subsequent proteome analysis according to numerous publications using similar pm isolation protocols reported previously . to remove non proteinous compounds pm proteins were subjected to de for a time sufficient for the protein samples to run into the gel . for this protein samples were suspended in an _PROTEIN_ buffer _PROTEIN_ . after electrophoresis for min on a polyacrylamide gel _PROTEIN_ a gel band with proteins was cut and collected . the gel band was cut into four pieces to increase the efficiency of protein digestion and then digested according to procedures published by citation with slight modifications . the gel was dehydrated in acetonitrile and then completely dried in a vacuum centrifuge . an aliquot of mm dithiotreitol in mm was used to cover the gel and the proteins were reduced for h at . after cooling to room temperature the dtt solution was replaced with the same volume of mm iodoacetamide in mm . the gel was subsequently incubated for min in the dark at ambient temperature with occasional mixing the gel was then washed with mm for min dehydrated by an addition of acetonitrile swelled by rehydration in mm and shrunk again in acetonitrile . after the liquid phase was removed the gel was completely dried in a vacuum centrifuge and then swollen in a digestion buffer containing mm mm and ng of trypsin in an ice cold bath for min . the supernatant was removed and replaced with the same buffer in the absence of trypsin to keep the gel wet during enzymatic cleavage . the resultant peptides were extracted by one change of mm and three changes of formic acid in acetonitrile at room temperature and dried down . digested peptide solutions were applied for nano lc _METHOD_ analysis . after purification and concentration peptides were eluted from a trap column with formic acid in acetonitrile and separated with a magic aq nano column . the eluting solution was linearly changed from to acetonitrile at a flow rate of nl . ionization was performed at a spray voltage of kv using an advance spray source . the _METHOD_ spectrometer used was an ltq orbitrap xl operated with xcalibur software . under data dependent scanning mode full scan _METHOD_ spectra were obtained in the range of m/z with a resolution of . these experiments were repeated four times with biological replicates obtained independently . protein quantification was performed by processing acquired lc _METHOD_ data with progenesis lc _METHOD_ software . after loading the acquired spectra of lc _METHOD_ runs to progenesis software the profile data of the _METHOD_ scans were transformed to peak lists using a proprietary algorithm . one control sample run was selected as a reference to align all the other runs > landmarks were aligned manually and then the alignment vectors were generated automatically for all the lc _METHOD_ runs . after features with > charges were excluded in further analyses the raw abundances of all features were normalized . samples were divided into three appropriate groups by using within subject design since we investigated pm proteome changes under different conditions . peptides were filtered with _PROTEIN_ and max fold change . _METHOD_ spectra from features with charge were exported and compared with the ncbi arabidopsis database using mascot _PROTEIN_ . the following mascot search parameters were used enzyme trypsin fixed modification used _PROTEIN_ and oxidation peptide _METHOD_ tolerance p.p.m . fragment ion _METHOD_ tolerance da . peptides were removed from further analysis to avoid _LOCATION_ in the quantification if they were assigned to more than one protein . the sum of the abundance values of the rest of the peptides belonging to the protein were used for calculation of protein abundance values . protein names and/or associated functions were retrieved from the ncbi _PROTEIN_ or tair databases . grand average of hydropathy _PROTEIN_ molecular weight pi and targetp annotations were retrieved from _PROTEIN_ . prediction of _LOCATION_ spanning regions was performed with the _PROTEIN_ and tmhmm databases . for the freezing experiment student 's t test was conducted to analyze statistical significance of the difference between samples when necessary . for the protein identification the proteins which appeared at least three times in four biological replicates were chosen as pm proteins . in quantification of proteins averages of protein abundance values were used for analysis _METHOD_ . in order to attribute a certain _PROTEIN_ profile to each individual protein differential _PROTEIN_ of a protein was declared when the relative abundance differed between groups by p < . a protein was reported to be higher or lower in abundance when the abundance was respectively higher or lower after ca or aba treatment than in control cells .
