complex i is the entry point for electrons into the respiratory electron transport chain therefore it plays a central role in cellular energy metabolism . complex i from different _METHOD_ has a similar basic structure . however an extra structural module referred to as the _PROTEIN_ anhydrase subcomplex is found in the mitochondrial complex i of photoautotrophic eukaryotes such as green alga and plants but not in that of the heterotrophic eukaryotes such as fungi and mammals . it has been proposed that the subcomplex is required for the light dependent life style of photoautotrophic eukaryotes but this hypothesis has not been successfully tested . we report here a genetic study of the genes and that encode two subunits of the subcomplex of mitochondrial complex i . we found that mutations of and in arabidopsis result in defective embryogenesis and nongerminating seeds demonstrating the functional significance of the subcomplex of mitochondrial complex i in plant development . surprisingly we also found that reduced _PROTEIN_ of and genes altered photomorphogenic development . the mutant plant _PROTEIN_ the rna interference construct of the gene showed a partial constitutive photomorphogenic phenotype in young seedlings and a reduced photoperiodic sensitivity in adult plants . the involvement of the subcomplex of mitochondrial complex i in plant photomorphogenesis and the possible evolutionary significance of this plant specific mitochondrial protein complex are discussed .
we isolated clones corresponding to the arabidopsis gene from a yeast two hybrid screen in our search for proteins that interact with the blue light receptor _PROTEIN_ . the arabidopsis genome encodes three closely related and and two like proteins and which together form the subcomplex of the mitochondrial complex i . the amino acid sequences of the three subunits contain all critical and evolutionarily conserved residues in the whereas the two subunits lack two critical his residues that are conserved in the _PROTEIN_ anhydrases and therefore are not likely to be catalytically active . and are more closely related to each other than they are to and . the and genes which share approximately amino acid sequence identity appear to _PROTEIN_ constitutively without obvious responses to light or circadian rhythm . the and proteins have been previously identified in the arabidopsis mitochondrial fraction by systematic _METHOD_ _METHOD_ analyses . to verify the subcellular localization we prepared and examined transgenic plants _PROTEIN_ yellow _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ and _METHOD_ proteins . we found that the _METHOD_ and _METHOD_ fusion proteins accumulate exclusively in mitochondria in the transgenic plants . given that arabidopsis _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ all the known functions and undergoes light dependent protein modifications in the _LOCATION_ _METHOD_ unlikely to be directly involved in the function or regulation of _PROTEIN_ and our initial yeast two hybrid result is most likely an often encountered artifact in such experiments . however we can not completely exclude the remote possibility that _PROTEIN_ and may interact in the _LOCATION_ before they are imported into their respective organelles . because of a potential involvement of these mitochondrial proteins in light dependent plant growth and development we continued our study to investigate the physiological functions of and . we first collected and analyzed a complete set of t dna insertion mutants of the genes encoding each of the five subunits of the arabidopsis subcomplex including and . none of the monogenic mutants or the double mutant showed easily discernible phenotypic alternation . these results are consistent with previous reports on phenotypes of and mutants . transgenic plants overexpressing the and genes also showed no apparent phenotypic alterations . we reasoned that the and genes may have redundant functions given that they share over sequence identity and prepared the double mutant by a conventional genetics method . however we failed to identify the _PROTEIN_ double mutant after genotyping over progeny derived from reciprocal crosses of and mutants . because plants homozygous for one gene but heterozygous for the other gene showed a normal phenotype we suspect that the double mutant may suffer from embryonic defects . to test this possibility we examined young siliques derived from parents that are homozygous for the mutation of one gene but heterozygous for the mutation of the other gene . we found that young siliques derived from the or parents contain approximately to colorless ovules which appeared to turn deep brown at the _PROTEIN_ stage of silique development . those colorless/deep brown ovules were apparently delayed in embryogenesis to various extents in comparison with that of the normal green ovules . a statistical analysis demonstrated that the colorless/deep brown phenotype of the parents exhibits the segregation ratio indicating that those abnormal ovules are the double mutant progeny of the parent . the colorless/deep brown phenotype of the parents appears to deviate from the segregation . these results suggest that the mutation has a nearly normal penetrance for the colorless/deep brown ovule phenotype whereas the _PROTEIN_ mutation may have a less than normal penetrance . the young siliques of the indicated genotypes were dissected using a microscope to examine the ovules . the numbers of normal and defective ovules were calculated and are shown . the frequency of the colorless ovules of is consistent with the segregation ratio . the frequency of colorless ovules observed in young siliques of the hemizygote parent deviates from the segregation indicating a less than perfect penetrance of the ycal mutation . the frequency of colorless ovules observed in young siliques derived from the _PROTEIN_ transgenic plant is similar to that of the wild type control indicating rescue of the colorless ovules of the double mutant by the _PROTEIN_ transgene . surprisingly in contrast to a common embryonic defective mutant we did not observe an abnormal number of aborted embryos in the mature siliques of the and plants . we reasoned that the colorless/deep brown ovules might complete their development to set seeds but the double mutant seeds may fail to germinate . this explains why we were unable to find the double mutant in the plants . to test this interpretation we examined the germination rate of the seeds harvested from the selfed and parents . in contrast to the wild type seeds that showed the germination rate of higher than about to of seeds derived from the selfed and parents failed to germinate . as a control the seeds resulting from the reciprocal crosses between the wild type and the and plants showed normal germination rates suggesting that the nongerminating seeds derived from selfed and parents are the double mutants . similar to the colorless/deep brown ovule phenotype the mutation had a nearly normal penetrance for the nongermination phenotype whereas the _PROTEIN_ mutation had a less than normal penetrance for the germination phenotype . seeds harvested from individual siliques of the indicated genotype were germinated on _METHOD_ plates for d and the frequency of nongerminating seeds was calculated on the basis of a single silique . the frequency of nongerminating seeds harvested from the hemizygote parents is consistent with the segregation ratio . the frequency of nongerminating seeds harvested from the hemizygote parent deviates from the segregation indicating a less than perfect penetrance of the mutation . the frequency of nongerminating seeds harvested from the _PROTEIN_ transgenic plant is similar to that of the wild type control indicating rescue of the colorless ovules of the double mutant by the _PROTEIN_ transgene . we confirmed that the colorless ovule and nongerminating seed phenotypes both result from the double mutation by genotyping and complementation tests . we first collected the nongerminating seeds from the progeny derived from selfed parents and genotyped those seeds . indeed the nongerminating seeds derived from the hemizygote parents contained t dna inserts in both the and mutant loci and they lacked the intact and genes . for the complementation assay we transformed the plants with the _PROTEIN_ transgene and genotyped the transgenic individuals in the generation . all basta resistant individuals grew normally and showed normal ovules and seed germination . we randomly selected some basta resistant individuals to identify those that showed homozygous and mutations . in contrast to our previous failure in identifying any individuals homozygous for both the and mutations in over several hundred progeny of the parent we readily identified individuals homozygous for both mutations in the basta resistant transgenic progeny of the parent . we then examined the existence of the _PROTEIN_ transgene in plants of the genotype and found that all double mutant plants also contained the _PROTEIN_ transgene . this result confirmed that the double mutant was rescued by the _PROTEIN_ transgene . we conclude that the _PROTEIN_ double mutation caused the defective embryogenesis and nongerminating seed phenotypes and that the and genes are essential for plant development . since the monogenic and mutants showed no phenotype alteration whereas the double mutant failed to germinate we sought to generate intermediate phenotypes to facilitate functional analysis using a knockdown approach . we prepared rna interference transgenic lines in the wild type or the _PROTEIN_ mutant backgrounds which are referred to as or knockdown lines respectively . both knockdown lines showed similar phenotypes but we focused on the knockdown lines for the following analyses . the knockdown lines showed reduced _PROTEIN_ of the and genes without affecting the mrna _PROTEIN_ of the three genes of the subcomplex . the phenotypic alterations of the knockdown plants are observed in multiple independent transgenic lines arguing that the phenotypic alterations described are due to the reduced _PROTEIN_ of the and genes . consistent with the observation that the double mutant failed to germinate the knockdown lines showed delayed germination . after germination the plants appeared to grow normally except that they exhibited smaller stature . by the time the wild type plants developed four true leaves the plants had only two true leaves and the leaves of the plants remained markedly smaller than those of the wild type throughout the life cycle . it remains unclear whether the smaller stature of the plants results from delayed germination or retarded growth or both . in addition to the effect on the organ and plant size _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ of the and genes also affects leaf morphology and leaf senescence . the seedlings grown in the dark exhibited typical etiolated phenotypes similar to the wild type seedlings including elongated hypocotyls unexpanded cotyledons and normal apical hook although the seedlings had slightly shorter hypocotyls than the wild type control seedlings . however when grown under light the seedlings developed a more pronounced shorter hypocotyl phenotype and they also showed shorter petioles . a fluence rate analysis using different monochromatic lights demonstrates that seedlings are hypersensitive to light in a wavelength independent manner . this result demonstrates a functional association between the mitochondrial subcomplex and photomorphogenesis . light grown seedlings also showed increased anthocyanin accumulation . the gene encoding the key enzyme of anthocyanin synthesis _PROTEIN_ synthase was _PROTEIN_ higher in than in the wild type seedlings . similar to the hypocotyl phenotype _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ was markedly exaggerated in light grown seedlings relative to the etiolated seedlings . in addition to the altered photomorphogenic development of young seedlings _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ of and also affects photoperiod dependent reproductive development of the knockdown plants . when grown in long day photoperiods the plants clearly exhibited a _PROTEIN_ flowering phenotype measured by both days to flower and rosette leaf number . although the plants grown in short day photoperiods also took longer to flower than did the wild type control as measured by days to flower the and wild type plants developed the same number of rosette leaves at the time of flowering in short days . this result argues that the apparent _PROTEIN_ flowering phenotype of the plants grown in the short day photoperiod is due to a retardation of growth rather than a delay in floral initiation per se . consistent with the notion that and _PROTEIN_ affects photoperiodic flowering genes closely associated with the photoperiodic control of floral initiation such as _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ showed markedly reduced mrna _PROTEIN_ in the plants whereas another flowering time gene _PROTEIN_ which is an autonomous pathway gene not directly involved in the photoperiodic control of flowering time showed normal _PROTEIN_ in the plants . importantly the development dependent change of mrna _PROTEIN_ for the photoperiodic pathway genes _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ but not the autonomous pathway gene _PROTEIN_ is almost abolished in the plants . given the essential role of and in plant development this result argues that the developmental impacts of these two mitochondrial proteins affect the photoperiodic pathway more than the autonomous pathway that controls floral initiation . taken together we conclude that and play important roles in light dependent plant growth and development .
most arabidopsis and mutants and all transgenic lines described in this study are from the columbia accessions except the mutant which is from the wassilewskija accession . all the mutants were obtained from the arabidopsis biological resource center . plant transformation and genetic photomorphogenic dna and rna analyses were as described previously . for the embryonic phenotype analyses young and mature siliques were collected from to week old plants opened with a needle using a dissecting microscope and examined with the microscope . to measure germination rates seeds from individually collected siliques were grown in murashige and skoog _METHOD_ medium for d under continuous light before counting the germinating seeds . additional methods and primers used in the genomic and quantitative pcr can be found in the supplemental materials and methods . the following materials are available in the online version of this article . supplemental figure . sequence analysis of the and proteins . supplemental figure . light independent mrna _PROTEIN_ of and . supplemental figure . genotyping of the and mutants . supplemental figure . phenotypes of adult plants of the indicated genotypes . supplemental figure . mrna _PROTEIN_ of the genes are not affected in the knockdown plants . supplemental figure . analyses of transgenic lines _PROTEIN_ the _PROTEIN_ rnai construct in the wild type background . supplemental figure . morphological defects of leaves of the knockdown plants . supplemental figure . the growth retardation phenotype of the knockdown plants is not rescued by the high _PROTEIN_ growth condition . supplemental figure . reduced _PROTEIN_ of the and genes modestly affects the maximum quantum efficiency of psii . supplemental figure . normal photosynthetic apparatus of the mutant plants . supplemental figure . possible biochemical functions of the proteins . supplemental table . normal gametogenesis of the and hemizygotes . supplemental table . oligonucleotide primers used in this study . supplemental materials and methods .
