hydrogen sulfide is a signaling molecule in plants and has caused increasing attention in recent years but its function in stomatal movement is unclear . in plants is synthesized via cysteine degradation catalyzed by desulfhydrase . gus transgenic arabidopsis thaliana heynh . plants were generated and used to investigate gene _PROTEIN_ patterns and results showed that can be _PROTEIN_ in guard cells . we also determined the subcellular localization of using transgenic plants of _METHOD_ and the results showed that and are located in the chloroplast and in the cytoplasm respectively . the transcript levels of and were affected by the chemicals that cause stomatal closure . among these _PROTEIN_ acc a precursor of ethylene has the most significant effect which indicates that the generated from may play an important role in stomatal closure . meanwhile synthetic inhibitors significantly inhibited stomatal closure in arabidopsis . ethylene treatment caused an increase of production and of activity in arabidopsis leaves . plants exhibited enhanced induction of stomatal closure compared to the after ethylene treatment however the effect was not observed in the and mutants . in conclusion our results suggest that the is involved in the regulation of stomatal closure in arabidopsis thaliana .
to study the gene _PROTEIN_ of and and explore its potential physiological role in plants the promoter activity of the genes was analyzed reporter analysis in transgenic arabidopsis plants _PROTEIN_ the gus constructs . bp promoter regions including the of and bp promoter regions including the of were amplified and cloned into the gus gene upstream of the binary vectors respectively . seedlings from gus transgenic arabidopsis plants were analyzed for gus activity by histochemical analysis . the results showed that gus was highly _PROTEIN_ in leaves especially in the leaf vein mesophyll cells and guard cells . gus staining was also found in the root vascular tissue and the pericycle . moreover gus staining was observed in cotyledonary tips guard cells and columella initials . no staining was detected in the root tip of gus or gus transgenic lines . histochemical gus analysis showed that both and are distributed in guard cells . in order to know the subcellular localization of and in arabidopsis guard cells we constructed the stable _PROTEIN_ vectors and . transgenic arabidopsis plants were generated by the floral dip method and the _METHOD_ fusion proteins _METHOD_ was examined using confocal laser microscopy _PROTEIN_ . the results showed that and were present in guard cells which is consistent with the histochemical gus analysis . are localized in the chloroplast of guard cells and is localized in the cytoplasm and in other leaf cells . in contrast in the control of the _METHOD_ transgenic line we could only observe a slight background _METHOD_ from the cell wall of guard cells . _PROTEIN_ of two arabidopsis genes and which play key roles in the production of was detected in guard cells and the confocal image of and showed that these two kinds of proteins are also located in the guard cell . to confirm the involvement of in regulating stomatal movement we analyzed the effects of ethylene and other plant hormones that induce stomatal closure on and gene _PROTEIN_ . quantitative analysis showed that of acid a precursor of ethylene enhanced the transcription of and and aba mm salicylic acid and jasmonic acid also had the same effects . a maximum gene _PROTEIN_ level of was reached after treatment with acc for min aba for min sa for min and ja for min . gene _PROTEIN_ was not increased as significantly as that of by the acc treatment however the transcription of was enhanced by aba treatment for min sa for min and ja for min respectively . it was observed that the transcript levels _PROTEIN_ from the peak over time suggesting that ethylene as well as other plant hormones which could induce stomatal closure might also enhance the gene _PROTEIN_ of and . among these plant hormones ethylene had the most significant effect on the transcription of . additionally after treatment with all these phytohormones only ethylene was shown to have a effect on the relative _PROTEIN_ of . to further understand the role of in regulating stomatal movement quantitative analysis was performed to examine the effect of environmental _PROTEIN_ which could cause stomatal closure such as drought high salinity and osmotic stresses on the transcription levels of and . the results showed that the maximum _PROTEIN_ level of was reached after drought stress for min salinity for min and osmotic stress for min respectively . the appeared after min of drought treatment and min of high salinity or osmotic stress . these results indicate that different stresses which can cause stomatal closure as well as ethylene and other plant hormones could enhance the _PROTEIN_ of the genes which play key roles in production . in plants are resources for generating when catalyzed by . arabidopsis leaves treated with mm aminooxy acetic acid _PROTEIN_ mm hydroxylamine or mm potassium pyruvate mm ammonia were analyzed . the inhibitors of alone showed no significant effect on production and activity while treatment with acc caused production and activity to _PROTEIN_ . these results support the notion that is involved in synthesis . in order to understand whether is involved in stomatal closure _PROTEIN_ or were used with or without ethylene treatment to analyze their effects on stomatal movement . in this study no significant effect on stomatal aperture was observed under treatments of _PROTEIN_ or alone but treatments that included inhibitors of and acc significantly inhibited stomatal closure . this observation suggests that the inhibiting effect of stomatal closure induced by ethylene is due to _PROTEIN_ production . these data provide evidence showing that is involved in stomatal closure in arabidopsis . to further examine the function of in stomatal closure in arabidopsis we constructed the overexpression vectors and in which cdnas of and were cloned under the promoter . the resulting constructs were confirmed by sequencing and transferred into arabidopsis using the flower dip method as described by clough and bent . transgenic lines were selected based on the resistance of transformed plants to kanamycin and rifampicin and two independent lines from the generation and were obtained and used in our experiments . by using three primers for salk lines the insertion mutants were identified and the obtained homozygotes were used in this study . as shown in figure without application of acc the content in the insertion mutants overexpression plants and the arabidopsis were all at similar levels . a significant effect of ethylene on production was not observed in the insertion mutants however the overexpression plants were more sensitive to the ethylene treatment . similar results are shown in figure . there was no significant difference among and the in stomatal aperture under the mes treatment . however compared to the and the insertion mutants stomatal aperture of the transgenic lines overexpressing and were more sensitive to ethylene . these results indicated that both and positively regulate stomatal closure and accumulation .
arabidopsis thaliana heynh . ecotype columbia was used as throughout this study . seeds of the insertion line and insertion line were obtained from the arabidopsis information resource . seeds were surface sterilized with naclo and rinsed five times with sterilized water . sterilized seeds were sown on agar plates containing murashige and skoog _METHOD_ medium and sucrose . plates were stored at for h in darkness and then germinated with roots hanging down from the roof of petri dishes in a tissue culture room at under a h h dark photoperiod . after one w seedlings were transferred to soil and placed in a growth chamber at with humidity of about under a h h dark photoperiod . young rosette leaves of w old plants were used in the experiments . stomatal bioassays were performed as described by liu et al . . parts of abaxial epidermises were peeled off with sharp forceps from the rosette leaves of w old plants and incubated in opening buffer under light conditions for h to open the stomata . for various treatments epidermal peels with stomata were transferred to the same base buffer supplemented with different chemicals for a further min and then transferred into a drop of floating solution on a glass slide and immediately processed for microscopic analysis of stomatal apertures . the width of the stomatal aperture was measured under a research microscope equipped with an ocular micrometer . apertures of ten stomata were measured in each of the three different epidermal strips in each treatment . each measurement was repeated in three independent experiments . standard _LOCATION_ were calculated relative to the number of epidermal peel experiments . to generate gus transgenic plants the respective promoter fragments were cloned and fused to the gus gene in the vector . the promoter fragments contained bp of the upstream region of the gene and no upstream region was contained in the promoter respectively . promoter fragments were amplified by pcr using the following primers for the gus construct forward primer _PROTEIN_ psti site underlined and reverse primer bamhi site underlined gus construct forward primer psti site underlined and reverse primer aactgcagaggtga _PROTEIN_ bamhi site underlined . the amplified fragments were and cloned into the vector using the restriction enzyme sites psti and bamhi to generate the gus constructs . the constructs gus and gus were transformed into agrobacterium tumefaciens strain . arabidopsis ecotype plants were transformed by the floral and transformants were selected on _METHOD_ agar media containing hygromycin . seeds obtained from of primary transformants were grown on hygromycin plates and used to generate homozygous lines that stained for gus activity according to lehman et al . . the histochemical localization of gus staining in transformed plant organs was assayed according to the methods described by jefferson . samples consisted of seedlings incubated with gus staining solution mm phosphate buffer ph mm potassium ferricyanide mm potassium ferrocyanide triton mm edta in the dark at overnight . after incubation stained plants were cleared with ethanol to remove chlorophyll . samples were examined for blue staining assessment with a nikon inverted microscope and were photographed . cdna and cdna were obtained from tair . for the transformation dna fragments containing the entire coding region were amplified by polymerase chain reaction with the oligonucleotide primers . then the cdna fragments were inserted into the vector between restriction sites xbai and kpni . the fidelity of the constructs was confirmed by restriction digestion and sequence analysis and the confirmed constructs were named and respectively . subsequently the two constructs were transformed into agrobacterium tumefaciens strain and selected based on their resistance to kanamycin and rifampicin . the vacuum infiltration method was used to transform the arabidopsis plants . several transgenic lines were obtained and two independent lines from the generation were used in this study . total rna was extracted using the _PROTEIN_ reagent following the manufacturer 's instructions . for pcr analysis cdna was synthesized from of total rna using reverse transcriptase . after synthesis of the first strand cdna using oligo d primer pcr was performed using the myiq pcr detection system with the presence of sybr green i in the amplification mixture according to the manufacturer 's protocols . specific primer sets were designed for and atactin . the amplification of the actin transcript served as the internal standard and the data were analyzed with myiq software . the relative transcript levels of and were calculated using the method and standardized with the atactin transcript level . measurement of emissions was performed as described by sekiya et al . with minor modifications . after treatment with acid for hours g of plant material was ground to a fine powder with liquid nitrogen and the soluble proteins were extracted by adding ml mm ph . after centrifugation the protein content of the supernatant was adjusted to to obtain equal amounts of protein in each assay sample . then was absorbed by the zinc acetate trap located in the bottom of the test tube . after min at of mm dissolved in n hcl was added to the trap . mm n dihydrochloride dissolved in n hcl was then injected into the trap . the amount of in the zinc acetate trap was determined colorimetrically at nm . the activity of was measured according to riemenschneide et al . . after treatment with acc for hours g of plant material was ground to a fine powder with liquid nitrogen and the soluble proteins were extracted by adding ml mm ph . after centrifugation the protein content of the supernatant was adjusted to to obtain equal amounts of protein in each assay sample . activity was detected by monitoring the release of from in the presence of dtt . the assay contained in a total volume of ml mm mm dtt mm ph and protein solution . the reaction was initiated by the addition of after incubation for min at the reaction was terminated by adding mm dissolved in n hcl and mm n dihydrochloride dissolved in n hcl . the formation of methylene blue was determined at nm . activity was determined in the same way with the following modifications instead of was used the ph of the buffer was . to construct a fusion between and _METHOD_ the and cds were cloned via xbai and kpni digestion from _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ into a vector . in this vector were placed under the control of camv promoter . the primers used to amplify were as follows for and . all pcr fragments and plasmids were verified by sequencing and restriction digestion . the new constructions are named and . we then transformed the constructs into arabidopsis plants by floral dipping using the agrobacterium stain and the method described earlier . to determine subcellular localization of and epidermal strips were prepared from w old lines _PROTEIN_ the _METHOD_ construct . confocal laser microscopy was carried out to assess _METHOD_ localization using a zeiss _PROTEIN_ microscope system . using the argon laser with a minimum power setting to excite _METHOD_ the light signal from the samples was captured in complete darkness using a olympus oil immersion objective and emission wavelength was measured at a to bandpass . _METHOD_ of chloroplasts was used for a comparison . transmission images were collected in parallel and were analyzed using the software lsm image browser . the dps data processing system was used to carry out the significance analysis of the data . analysis of variance was conducted between different treatments . a p value of < was considered statistically significant .
