branched chain amino acids are three of the nine essential amino acids in human and animal diets and are important for numerous processes in development and growth . however seed bcaa levels in major crops are insufficient to meet dietary requirements making genetic improvement for increased and balanced seed bcaas an important nutritional target . addressing this issue requires a better understanding of the genetics underlying seed bcaa content and composition . here a genome wide association study and haplotype analysis for seed bcaa traits in arabidopsis thaliana revealed a strong association with a chromosomal interval containing two branched chain amino acid transferases and . linkage analysis reverse genetic approaches and molecular complementation analysis demonstrated that allelic variation at is responsible for the natural variation of seed bcaas in this interval . complementation analysis of a null mutant with two significantly different alleles from accessions bayreuth and shahdara is consistent with contributing to natural variation in bcaa levels glutamate recycling and free amino acid homeostasis in seeds in an allele dependent manner . the seed specific phenotype of null alleles its strong transcription induction during _PROTEIN_ seed development and its subcellular localization to the mitochondria are consistent with a unique catabolic role for in bcaa metabolism in seeds .
to assess the extent of phenotypic variation for free bcaas in dry arabidopsis seeds the absolute levels of faas were quantified from three independent outgrowths of an arabidopsis diversity panel . nine bcaa related traits were determined absolute bcaa levels relative bcaa levels and the ratio of each bcaa to the sum of all three bcaas . val was the most abundant of the three bcaas with val/bcaas averaging while ile/bcaas and leu/bcaas averaged and respectively . the relationship between phenotypic values of the nine traits was evaluated by spearman s rank correlation and strong positive correlations were identified between all three bcaa absolute traits and between all three relative level traits . by contrast a weak positive correlation between ile/bcaas and leu/bcaas and strong negative correlations between val/bcaas and leu/bcaas and ile/bcaas were identified . broad sense heritabilities ranged from to for all traits suggesting that phenotypic variation is controlled primarily by qtls . to dissect the genetic basis of natural variation for bcaa levels in dry arabidopsis seeds gwas was performed using a ecotype arabidopsis diversity panel previously genotyped with a single nucleotide polymorphism _PROTEIN_ . because of extremely delayed flowering of some accessions seeds could be harvested and phenotyped from only of the accessions . removal of low quality snps and those with minor allele frequency < yielded a snp data set for association analysis using a unified mixed linear model that controls for population structure and familial relatedness . significant snp trait associations at a false discovery rate _PROTEIN_ were found for five traits ile ile/total ile/bcaas leu/total and val/bcaas with all showing a strong association signal on chromosome . of these five traits the four ile and leu related traits demonstrated high positive correlations but had negative correlations to val/bcaas . the peak snp locus on chromosome for all five traits was located within a gene annotated as early responsive to dehydration _PROTEIN_ _LOCATION_ . this peak snp locus explained and of the total phenotypic variance for ile/total ile/bcaas leu/bcaas ile and val/bcaa respectively . notably this snp is located bp from the stop codon of and bp from the stop codon of which encode biosynthetic and catabolic bcaa enzymes . depending on the trait a total of to snps in the vicinity of had significant associations . taken together these snps span a kb interval that contains open reading frames . in addition to the gwas signal on chromosome five chromosomal regions with significant snp trait associations were identified . ile/bcaas had a significant association with on chromosome within _GENE_ annotated as encoding a stress induced _PROTEIN_ embryogenesis protein _PROTEIN_ . ile and ile/total had two associations on chromosome and at and bp respectively in adjacent genes annotated as encoding a glycoside hydrolase family protein and a large subunit ribosomal protein . chromosome had four significant snp associations ile/total and ile/bcaas with within a gene annotated as coding for an f box/rni like superfamily protein ile/bcaas with and within and near a gene for a mads box transcription _PROTEIN_ and ile/total with located within a gene of unknown function . to further resolve the complex signals from the chromosome region containing the most statistically significant snps a multiple locus mixed model approach that uses stepwise model selection was implemented on the five traits in the vicinity of . in this analysis all snps with a maf in the kb region surrounding on chromosome were considered for inclusion into the final model . for each trait the optimal model contained only and explained to of the phenotypic variation for the five traits . to validate these results gwas was reconducted using a unified mixed model that included as a covariate . with this conditional gwas no significant associations were detected for any of these traits including the five additional genomic regions that were previously identified on chromosomes and . estimates of linkage disequilibrium _PROTEIN_ between and other snps in the surrounding kb region indicated that patterns of long range _PROTEIN_ were present and may account for the multiple significant snps that were identified for this region . taken together these results indicate that is likely in _PROTEIN_ with one or more causative _METHOD_ that are responsible for the natural variation of bcaa related traits in dry arabidopsis seeds . it has been shown previously that peak gwas signals like are not always located within a causal gene but can be in _PROTEIN_ with other causal _METHOD_ nearby . in an attempt to increase our resolution and further characterize contributing _METHOD_ in this region haplotype analysis was performed . in contrast to gwas which considers individual snps in isolation haplotype analysis allows one to consider multiple snps that segregate together due to _PROTEIN_ and as a group may be most significant for a trait . haplotype analysis was conducted on a kb chromosome region that includes _LOCATION_ and and encompasses all significant snps common to the four bcaa traits with multiple snp associations . fourteen haploblocks were identified across this region including the bp haploblock which contains the peak snp from gwas and encompasses portions of _LOCATION_ and . when unified mixed linear models were fitted for each haploblock haploblocks and were found to be the most significant of the seven haploblocks associated with all five bcaa traits . by contrast haploblock was associated with only three traits and in each case was less significant than haploblocks and . haploblock contains three haplotypes and is delineated by two snps located in the utr of and the promoter region of . haploblock also contains three haplotypes delineated by two snps located in the promoter and first exon of . the most significantly different haplotype pairs for haploblocks and were ca versus tt and ga versus _PROTEIN_ respectively _PROTEIN_ . the ca ga haplotype pairs represent the high level haplotypes for ile ile/total leu/total and ile/bcaas and the low level haplotype for val/bcaas . the opposite effect of this haplotype pair on these bcaa traits is consistent with their divergent pearson correlations . taken together these results strongly suggest that either or and not _LOCATION_ is the causative gene but the _PROTEIN_ structure of this genomic region necessitates molecular dissection with mutagenesis and transgenic methods to define which bcat is causal . to independently confirm the results predicted from gwas and haplotype analyses a biparental qtl analysis was performed using the bayreuth shahdara recombinant inbred population . the bay and sha parents contain the haploblocks and low and high most significant haplotype pairs predicted by gwas respectively and should segregate accordingly in the population for ile related traits . seed bcaa levels of recombinant inbred lines of a bay sha mapping population were quantified by lc _METHOD_ and composite interval mapping was performed for all nine bcaa traits using plant breeding and biology qtl analysis version . in total chromosome regions with qtls were identified three of which contained known bcaa catabolism genes in their intervals . no pairwise epistatic interactions were detected . confidence intervals for qtls that included the chromosomal region defined by gwas were identified for all five bcaa traits plus one additional trait val/total . these composite interval mapping results indicate that consistent with predictions from gwas and haplotype analysis sha is the higher parent for ile related traits and bay the higher parent for val/bcaas . these chromosome qtls explain to of the total variation and represent one of two major qtls in the bay sha mapping population that are shared with all five traits detected in gwas . a transgenic strategy was used to definitively test whether or is the causal gene underlying natural variation for bcaa levels in dry arabidopsis seeds . null homozygous t dna insertion lines for and _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ were isolated and characterized from the salk and versailles t dna collections . rt pcr using primers designed to span the full and _LOCATION_ transcripts confirmed that all four mutant alleles lack transcripts derived from their respective genes in flowers and seeds . amino acid quantification of dry seeds from and _LOCATION_ alleles showed that only the two alleles had a consistent and significant change in seed bcaa profiles compared with the wild type . the ile leu and val increases were and fold relative to the wild type in and and fold that of the wild type wassilewskija in . by contrast consistent and significant effects in bcaa profiles were not observed in leaves from week old mutant plants . these results indicate that mutant alleles of but not specifically influence seed bcaa levels and suggest that is the causal locus for the natural variation of bcaas in dry seeds . accumulation of bcaas in null mutants suggests that is a catabolic rather than a biosynthetic enzyme as suggested previously as bcaas would be expected to _PROTEIN_ from disruption of a biosynthetic enzyme . in order to directly test whether _METHOD_ associated with are the cause of natural variation for seed bcaa levels molecular complementation of was performed with the bay and sha alleles lines that harbor the two most significantly different allele pairs of haploblocks and . the null background was transformed with kb genomic dna fragments from bay and sha that contain kb of promoter the coding region and bp downstream of the stop codon . the two alleles differ by _METHOD_ including insertions/deletions ranging in size from to bp . nine of the snp _METHOD_ were scored in the association panel with the snp _PROTEIN_ and seven were found to be significant for at least one bcaa trait . five of these seven snps are located in the promoter one in the targeting sequence of the coding region and one in the utr . homozygous transgenic lines segregating for a single insertion locus were isolated and the effect of each allele on seed amino acid phenotypes was determined by lc _METHOD_ . complementation with either transgenic allele caused a substantial reduction in the elevated bcaa levels of with the average of independent transgenic events containing the sha allele being statistically indistinguishable from the average of col plants . by contrast the average of nine independent transgenic events containing the bay allele resulted in significantly lower absolute levels of ile and val and significantly lower ile/total and ile/bcaas ratios compared with col . bcaa ratios of were indistinguishable from col with the exception of ile/bcaas which was slightly lower . these molecular complementation results confirm that the bay allele results in a significantly different seed bcaa profile that is consistent with results from the gwas and qtl analyses . interestingly the faa profile also showed significant reductions in arg glu gly ser and met levels compared with col . to address whether bcaa natural variation is driven by differences in _PROTEIN_ levels and transcripts were quantified at different stages of seed development in bay and sha using quantitative rt pcr . in both accessions transcript levels showed a rapid increase during maturation and a slight _PROTEIN_ during desiccation while transcript levels showed a substantial _PROTEIN_ during _PROTEIN_ maturation and desiccation to nondetectable levels in dry seeds . that transcript levels showed only minor variation between the two accessions suggests that _PROTEIN_ differences make at best modest contributions to the observed phenotypic differences . transcript levels in bay were higher than those in sha at d after flowering _PROTEIN_ but lower at all other time points substantially so at and _PROTEIN_ . the arabidopsis _METHOD_ browser _METHOD_ _METHOD_ indicates that is _PROTEIN_ only in the seed coat thus the absence of transcript in dry seeds is consistent with seed coat death during the _PROTEIN_ stages of desiccation . the _PROTEIN_ profiles of and are consistent with molecular complementation studies demonstrating that is the causal gene driving seed bcaa natural variation . the accumulation of bcaas in null mutants implied that the enzyme functions as a catabolic rather than a biosynthetic enzyme as was reported previously . catabolic bcats are generally located in the _LOCATION_ but had been reported to be _LOCATION_ based on transient _PROTEIN_ in tobacco leaves of the first of the amino acids of the protein . to clarify its subcellular localization the c terminus of the full length protein was tagged with yellow _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ and stably transformed into arabidopsis plants _PROTEIN_ the cyan _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ mitochondrial marker mt ck _PROTEIN_ . a c terminal _METHOD_ fusion was used to avoid disrupting any potential n terminal targeting sequences as reported for other bcat family members . _METHOD_ microscopy of stably transformed arabidopsis leaves indicated that the _METHOD_ signal colocalized with the mitochondrial marker with no signal detectable in chloroplasts . these results support in silico targeting predictions for by targetp and ipsort as well as observations that the transcript is coexpressed with leu catabolic enzymes which are also located in the _LOCATION_ . the observations are also consistent with the mitochondrial localization of cultivated tomato the closest tomato homolog to arabidopsis .
all arabidopsis thaliana genotypes were grown at to under long day conditions . dry seeds were collected at the end of the desiccation period and stored in a desiccator at room temperature for at least weeks prior to analysis to ensure full desiccation . the member arabidopsis diversity panel was grown as three independent replicates under the conditions above . seeds from a total of accessions with reasonable flowering times were used for association analysis . for the developing seed analysis flowers of bay and sha were marked and at specific times _PROTEIN_ seeds were collected and stored at . all accessions in this panel were genotyped with the snp data set version which is available for download at https //cynin.gmi.oeaw.ac.at/home/resources/atpolydb/ . the t dna mutant lines _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ were obtained from the versailles collection . the t dna mutant lines and _LOCATION_ were obtained from the _PROTEIN_ stock center . and _LOCATION_ are in the col background and and are in the ws background . homozygous mutant lines were validated by genomic pcr using gene specific primers in combination with the t dna left border primer . lack of transcripts from and _LOCATION_ was validated by rt pcr using flower and seed rna from the respective mutants and primers designed to amplify the full length transcript . primers used for this study are summarized in supplemental table online . a kb region of genomic dna containing the gene with bp prior to the start codon and bp after the stop codon were amplified from the bay and sha accessions and cloned into the vector using the gateway recombination system . homozygous plants were transformed with either the bay or sha allele by agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated gene transfer using the floral dip method . homozygous lines segregating for a single insertion were isolated by selection on the appropriate antibiotics . total rna was isolated from developing and dry seeds using the hot borate method and from flowers using rna easy . dnase treatment was conducted using turbo dna free dnase . first strand cdna was synthesized from of total rna with superscript ii reverse transcriptase and oligo primer . transcript levels were determined by quantitative pcr using sybr green real time pcr mix _METHOD_ with mrna as an internal control . mrna was amplified from cdna cloned into the _GENE_ vector and mobilized into a vector driven by the promoter that allowed in frame fusion of the coding sequence to the _METHOD_ coding region . this vector was used to transform plants containing a _METHOD_ mitochondrial marker _PROTEIN_ by a. tumefaciens mediated gene transfer using the floral dip method . localization of _PROTEIN_ proteins was visualized in transformants with a oil objective using an olympus fluview confocal laser scanning microscope . _METHOD_ was excited by a nm argon laser line and the emission range was set to to nm _METHOD_ was excited by a nm argon laser line and the emission range was set to to nm . chlorophyll autoflorescence was excited by a nm argon laser line with the emission range set to to nm . after background subtraction to remove camera noise contrast enhancement was performed to increase signal intensity and remove low level background . for colocalization experiments _METHOD_ signals were false colored magenta _METHOD_ signals were false colored cyan and chlorophyll signals were false colored red . faa extraction for lc _METHOD_ analysis was performed by modifying a previously described method . briefly mg arabidopsis seed samples were homogenized in heavy standards buffer by vigorous shaking with two mm glass beads for min on an paint shaker and then incubated for min at . after incubation extracts were centrifuged at and the supernatants were filtered by centrifugation at through a low binding hydrophilic polytetrafluoroethylene . filtered samples were then diluted twofold with the heavy standards buffer and analyzed by lc _METHOD_ . the lc _METHOD_ method was slightly modified from citation to include selected ion pairs for the additional heavy amino acid standards . the method was composed of three electrospray photoionization functions to allow sufficient dwell time for each analyte . multiple reaction monitoring transitions optimized source cone voltages collision cell voltages gradient functions and selected ion monitoring pair details are described in detail in supplemental table online . data were acquired and processed with _METHOD_ . the buffer contained dtt with ala and asp gly and each ala asp _PROTEIN_ gln u glu _PROTEIN_ gly leu lys his _PROTEIN_ met _PROTEIN_ phe ser _PROTEIN_ trp and val . all the heavy amino acids were _PROTEIN_ from cambridge isotope laboratories and c/d/n isotope and will be described as aa hereafter normal isotope amino acids will be described as aa . endogenous concentrations of the aas were calculated according to standard curves and the peak area ratios of each amino acid to its respective heavy internal standard _METHOD_ . hence a series of working standards with concentrations ranging from to of aas were prepared with the aa heavy standard buffer _PROTEIN_ . calibration curves for each amino acid were generated by plotting amino acid concentrations on the x axis versus responses on the y axis using regression analysis . measurement of triplicates demonstrated a high accuracy of relative sd high repeatability and a wide linear range . this high accuracy of the method allowed only a single measurement per each accession per growth period for gwas although five replicates were routinely performed for the characterization of mutants . amino acid levels were quantified different relative levels were calculated as described above and raw values were used as quantitative values in qtl analysis . plabqtl was used for composite interval mapping . permutation analysis was performed to calculate the critical log of the odds score of . genotypic data used for the analysis were obtained from citation http . cofactors used for calculations were automatically chosen by the plabqtl program . for each of the nine bcaa traits samples below detection were assigned uniform random variables ranging from to min where min is the minimum detection level of a given trait . studentized deleted residuals were then calculated from a mixed model fitted in sas version that included replicate and accessions as random effects . accessions with extreme studentized deleted residuals were designated as outliers and removed from the analysis . upon removal of the outliers the procedure of citation was implemented to find the optimal transformation of each trait thus ensuring that the model assumptions of normally distributed _LOCATION_ _METHOD_ and constant variance were not being violated . finally a best linear unbiased predictor for each accession was predicted for all transformed traits using mixed models fitted across all outgrowths . these blups were used as the phenotype in all subsequent analyses . the variance component estimates from each fitted model was used to estimate the broad sense heritability of each trait . se values of heritability estimates were approximated using the delta method . a gwas of the nine bcaa traits was then conducted using snps with maf among accessions from the diversity panel with adequate flowering time to allow timely seed production . at each of these snps a unified mixed linear model was fitted for each trait in the genome association and prediction integrated tool r package . this model included principal components as fixed effects to account for population structure and a kinship _PROTEIN_ to account for familial relatedness among the accessions . the principal components and kinship _PROTEIN_ were both calculated from snps with maf among the accessions genotyped with the snp data set version . for each bcaa trait the bayesian information criterion was used to determine the optimal number of principal components to include in the mlm . the efficient population parameters previously determined were used to eliminate the need of reestimating the variance components at each snp . finally we used the procedure to control for the _PROTEIN_ at . in addition to the gwas we implemented the mlmm to identify the key snps responsible for signals at major effect loci . to account for multiple markers associated with a trait the mlmm approach conducts stepwise model selection within a mixed model framework . in contrast to the population parameters previously determined the mlmm approach reestimates the variance components at each step of model fitting . all snps from the _PROTEIN_ with maf among the accessions were considered for inclusion in the final model . the extended bayesian information criterion was used to determine the number of snps in this optimal model . to assess the correlation between the bcaa traits in their original units of measurement the blups of each trait were back transformed . the spearman s rank correlation coefficient was then used to estimate the correlation between each pair of traits . the statistical significance of each correlation was assessed by conducting a student s t test . _PROTEIN_ was investigated using previously described methods . briefly the squared allele frequency correlation between pairs of snps was used to quantify _PROTEIN_ in a given genomic region . all snps with maf were considered for this analysis . for the kb region surrounding and haploblocks were created using the confidence interval method in haploview version . the associations between haploblocks and bcaa content were then analyzed by fitting the unified mlm in the mixed procedure available in sas version . for this analysis the same principal components and kinship _PROTEIN_ used in our gwas were used to account for population structure and familial relatedness . within each haploblock the lsmeans statement was used to compare bcaa levels at each haplotype . the tukey kramer procedure was used to adjust for the multiple testing problem at . sequence data from this article can be found in the arabidopsis genome initiative or genbank/embl databases under the following accession numbers _GENE_ _GENE_ _LOCATION_ . the following materials are available in the online version of this article . supplemental figure . pairwise _PROTEIN_ estimates of with snps across a kb chromosomal interval centered on and plotted against chromosomal position . supplemental figure . haplotype analysis of chromosome to . supplemental figure . and genomic structures and transcript levels in seeds and flowers of and mutants . supplemental figure . _LOCATION_ genomic structure and transcripts in _LOCATION_ . supplemental figure . _PROTEIN_ in absolute levels for and as reported at the arabidopsis _METHOD_ browser . supplemental table . spearman s correlation analysis of bcaa traits across the arabidopsis diversity panel . supplemental table . summary of mlmm analysis for the five bcaa traits using all snps within kb of the genomic region . supplemental table . haploview generated haplotypes with their respective association p values and significantly different haplotypes that were found across all five traits . supplemental table . summary of the _METHOD_ between the two alleles from bay and sha that were used for the complementation as determined by sanger sequence . supplemental table . faa profile of complementation with the two significantly different alleles from bay and sha . supplemental table . list of the primers used for this study . supplemental table . details of lc _METHOD_ gradient and functions . supplemental data set . arabidopsis accessions used in this study . supplemental data set . gwas results summary of all snps with significant associations at _PROTEIN_ for all the bcaa traits . supplemental data set . qtl analysis of the bay sha mapping population . supplemental data set . seed and leaf faa profiles of _LOCATION_ and the wild type .
