a transcriptomic approach has been used to identify genes predominantly _PROTEIN_ in maize scutellum during maturation . one of the identified genes is oil body associated which is transcribed during seed maturation predominantly in the scutellum and its _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ rapidly after germination . proteins similar to are present in all plants including primitive plants and mosses and in some fungi and bacteria . in plants obap genes are divided in two subfamilies . arabidopsis genome contains five genes coding for obap proteins . arabidopsis protein is accumulated during seed maturation and disappears after germination . agroinfiltration of tobacco epidermal leaf cells with fusions of to yellow _METHOD_ protein and immunogold labeling of embryo transmission electron microscopy sections showed that protein is _PROTEIN_ localized in the surface of the oil bodies . protein was detected in the oil body cellular fraction of arabidopsis embryos . deletion analyses demonstrate that the most hydrophilic part of the protein is responsible for the oil body localization which suggests an indirect interaction of with other proteins in the oil body surface . an arabidopsis mutant with a transfer dna inserted in the second exon of the gene and an rna interference line against the same gene showed a _PROTEIN_ in the germination rate a _PROTEIN_ in seed oil content and changes in fatty acid composition and their embryos have few big and irregular oil bodies compared with the wild type . taken together our findings suggest that protein is involved in the stability of oil bodies .
scutellum samples were dissected from immature embryos d after pollination which corresponds to the embryo maturation stage marked by the growth of the embryo and the accumulation of reserve substances . rna was extracted and a complementary dna library constructed . est clones from the unamplified library were randomly picked and those with inserts larger than bp were sequenced from their ends . supplemental tables and list the sequenced ests and their corresponding genes and include accession numbers functional category and best blastp match . fifty five ests corresponded to transposable elements . sixty seven percent of the ests corresponding to genes were singletons and the rest assembled into contigs of two to sequences . among the largest contigs composed of more than seven ests the majority corresponded to zeins . considering all genes with an identified function are involved in metabolism and in protein synthesis and processing . to identify genes specifically or predominantly _PROTEIN_ in the immature scutellum clones corresponding to different genes were selected from the scutellum library . the inserts of the cdna clones were pcr amplified and spotted onto nylon _LOCATION_ . macroarray hybridization experiments were carried out in triplicate with radio labeled retrotranscribed probes synthesized with rna extracted from dissected embryo axis endosperm and scutellum . a gene was designated as being predominantly _PROTEIN_ in scutellum when after normalization the average signal intensity with scutellum probes was greater than times that of embryo axis and of endosperm samples . four genes showed a significantly higher _PROTEIN_ in scutellum two genes coding oleosins a gene involved in defense against pathogens _PROTEIN_ and a gene of undetermined function _PROTEIN_ . this last gene is represented by three clones in the scutellum library which indicates a moderately high level of _PROTEIN_ . we named it because as we will show _PROTEIN_ it encodes an oil body associated protein . the gene is located in chromosome and contains one intron . transcript sequence databases describe only one transcript variant and the in silico _PROTEIN_ database _METHOD_ browser suggests that higher _PROTEIN_ occurs in mature embryo . the maize genome contains two additional genes encoding proteins similar to _PROTEIN_ located in chromosome and similar and _PROTEIN_ located in chromosome and similar . and are similar between them . the genes and also contain one intron and the in silico data indicate that their highest _PROTEIN_ also occurs in mature embryo . a total of protein sequences similar to maize were identified in databases corresponding to species of them full length sequences . they corresponded to several plant species including monocots dicots conifers primitive plants mosses and algae but also to some fungi and some prokaryotes . only one sequence corresponding to an animal species was found _PROTEIN_ . this sequence corresponds to an est collection obtained from desiccated samples of the nematode plectus murrayi . however it is unlikely that this sequence really corresponds to a p. murrayi transcribed gene because similar genes are not present in the genomes of any other nematode species including the fully sequenced genome of caenorhabditis elegans and because this sequence is similar to a peanut transcribed mrna which strongly suggests that it corresponds to a contamination . in conclusion according to the current available information obap genes are not present in animals . whereas in plants obap genes are present as small gene families fungi and prokaryote genomes contain only one copy although not in all species . for example escherichia coli and yeast genomes do not contain obap genes . a phylogenetic tree based on all the available obap full length sequences shows that there are two obap families in plants one in fungi and one in prokaryotes . both plant subfamilies contain genes from multiple species and representatives from monocotyledons dicotyledons conifers and primitive plants . in general monocot plants contain three copies of the gene one from family and two from family and dicots conifers and primitive plants contain a variable number of genes distributed in the two subfamilies . for example arabidopsis genome contains two genes of subfamily and three genes of subfamily . inside each group the sequences are distributed accordingly to the species phylogeny . quantitative reverse transcription pcr experiments revealed that at dap maize mrna is about fold more abundant in the scutellum than in the embryo axis and about times more in the scutellum than in the endosperm confirming the macroarray results . no _PROTEIN_ was detected in leaves or roots . a similar pattern was obtained for gene . _PROTEIN_ was also examined in embryos at different stages of development . in both genes the highest _PROTEIN_ was found in maturing embryos but whereas has a maximum at about dap has a maximum about d earlier . after imbibition the mrna accumulation in embryos in both cases _PROTEIN_ rapidly . five obap genes are present in the arabidopsis genome . _GENE_ is the more similar to the maize . according to arabidopsis microarray databases _METHOD_ is highly _PROTEIN_ during seed maturation its _PROTEIN_ drops quickly after imbibition and no _PROTEIN_ was observed in other organs . an antibody was produced against arabidopsis and used in western blot analyses to study protein accumulation in different organs and during seed development and germination . protein is not present in seeds at early stages of development but accumulated rapidly during seed maturation . mature leaves and _METHOD_ do not contain . protein accumulation _PROTEIN_ rapidly after imbibition becoming undetectable only d after imbibition . protein sequences do not contain any recognizable protein motif or transmembrane helix that could give us clues about its function . maize and arabidopsis proteins appeared in proteomic analysis of maize embryos and arabidopsis seeds and in both cases their concentration increased during artificial ageing . arabidopsis also appeared in a proteomic analysis focused in the identification of proteins whose tyr phosphorylation varied significantly in seeds imbibed for d in abscisic acid . these proteomic analysis did not provide any experimental data on the possible subcellular distribution of however the protein is defined by citation as a putative lipoprotein. some of the homologous genes from prokaryote species are also described similarly in genebank although no experimental data have been published for any of them . to clarify subcellular localization the full length coding region was fused with the yellow _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ coding region in c terminus under the control of promoter and analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy after transient _PROTEIN_ by agroinfiltration in tobacco leaf epidermal cells . confocal microscopy revealed _METHOD_ _METHOD_ in small organelles distributed in the cytoplasm . _METHOD_ obtained with _METHOD_ alone shows a more uniform distribution in the cell . this punctuate distribution was similar to the distribution of obs in tobacco cells as can be seen after nile red treatment that stains neutral lipids and it has been used to localize obs . used in tobacco leaf epidermal cells nile red stains spherical lipid based particles distributed in the cytoplasm . when tobacco leaf epidermal cells agroinfiltrated with obap _METHOD_ construct were stained with nile red both signals _PROTEIN_ colocalized indicating that the punctuate structures in which _METHOD_ localizes correspond to obs . finally we carried out coexpression experiments to verify the colocalization of with the well known ob associated protein . as expected fused to cyan _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ was localized in spherical bodies and part of the obap _METHOD_ protein colocalized with . however the ectopic _PROTEIN_ of _METHOD_ induces that part of the _METHOD_ protein that appeared to be located in aligned small spots that do not contain _METHOD_ . we used the anti antibody to obtain further evidence of the association of to obs . first immunogold transmission electron microscopy was used to determine subcellular localization in mature rapeseed embryos . gold labeling was observed predominantly in the surface of the obs . second we used the flotation centrifugation method to isolate the ob enriched protein fraction from dry rapeseed seeds . the ob layer the total lysate and the _LOCATION_ fraction were delipidated precipitated separated by _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and blotted onto a nitrocellulose _LOCATION_ for immunodetection . although the antibody raised against arabidopsis recognized proteins present in the ob protein fraction demonstrating the association of obap with the obs it also recognized proteins present in the _LOCATION_ fraction . confocal and transmission electron microscopy experiments indicated that is _PROTEIN_ located in the obs . however subcellular fractioning experiment raised some doubts in respect to this subcellular distribution . the association to obs of other plant proteins such as oleosins and caleosins are known to be due to the presence of a long central highly hydrophobic domain . oleosins have a central hydrophobic domain of about residues caleosins of about residues and steroleosins of about residues . these proteins also contain a characteristic prorich motif . proteins do not contain a prorich motif and although hydropathy plots show some hydrophobic regions they are short and not as hydrophobic as in the other three plant ob associated proteins . to determine if these short hydrophobic regions are the responsibility of the ob localization of we divided the coding region in two parts and fused them to the _METHOD_ coding region the n terminal part contains the hydrophobic regions and the c terminal part contains the most hydrophilic part of the protein . when introduced into tobacco leaf epidermal cells the n terminal part shows a subcellular distribution similar to _METHOD_ alone whereas the c terminal part shows a punctuate distribution characteristic of the ob distribution . these results suggest that does not interact with the central lipidic domain of the obs and that ob localization is due to another type of interaction as for example the interaction with another ob associated protein . we used insertional mutagenesis and rna interference approaches to determine the biological function of arabidopsis . public collections of transfer dna insertion in arabidopsis were screened and we have found two lines containing t dna insertions in gene . seeds of these homozygous mutant lines were obtained from nottingham arabidopsis stock centre t dna collection . one insertion was located in the second exon and we designated it . the second insertion was located about bp upstream of the _PROTEIN_ and we called it . we have also used the rnai method to reduce _PROTEIN_ . we have produced an rnai line specific to gene we called . immunoblot analyses using anti antibody showed that whereas the abundance of protein in seeds is not altered the seeds of the line do not contain detectable amounts of protein and the seeds from line contain a reduced quantity . whereas seeds germinated similarly to the wild type seeds germinated poorly and mutant seeds germinated less than compared with the wild type . after germination no difference in seedling development was observed between or lines and the wild type . no significant differences were observed in the weight of the seeds of the different lines . to investigate whether alterations in protein deposition would affect the synthesis of storage lipids we performed biochemical analyses of seed tag content and fatty acids composition . when compared with the wild type we observed no differences in the total amount of tag in and seeds but a significant reduction in seeds which contain about tag of the wild type amount . although there are quantitative differences in the accumulation of tag qualitative analyses of fa composition showed only minor statistically significant differences when compared with the wild type . whereas seeds did not show any significant differences in overall fa profiles in tag compared with the wild type the seeds of the and lines contain significantly more linoleic acid and less eicosenoic acid . we conducted microscopy analyses to investigate the possible effects of different accumulation on the morphology of obs . first we extracted embryos from mature seeds of each line stained them with nile red and observed them in the confocal microscope . whereas wild type embryos showed a uniform distribution of relatively small obs embryos from and contained bigger obs with an irregular shape and located in the central part of the cell . to obtain a more precise image of these changes in ob structure the embryos were also observed using electron microscopy . compared with the wild type the obs in embryos of mutant and rnai line are enlarged and irregularly shaped . the effect is more intense in the insertion line compared with .
maize was grown under standard conditions . tobacco was grown in soil under long day conditions . seeds from brassica carinata and glycine max were obtained from the u.s. department of agriculture . the following salk arabidopsis insertion mutants were acquired from the arabidopsis biological resource center and . the rnai line was requested to _PROTEIN_ project . for arabidopsis germination assays seeds were surface sterilized for min with ethanol in water followed by min in naclo solution washed five times in sterile distilled water and then placed onto agar in murashige and skoog medium ph . plates were kept for d in the dark at to break dormancy and transferred to h photoperiod at mol m s at . after week germination rate was evaluated . four batches of seeds were analyzed per line . total rna was extracted with _PROTEIN_ reagent according to the manufacturer s instructions treated with dnase i and purified with rnaeasy plant mini kit . a cdna library was constructed using of total rna and the smart cdna library construction kit with oligo priming . pcr amplified cdnas were ligated into pcrii topo and introduced into escherichia coli . insert amplification was performed by pcr using the primers ggaaacagctatgaccatgattacg and _PROTEIN_ . single pass sequencing was performed from the end of the selected pcr products using the primer _PROTEIN_ at the sequencing service . the est sequences were compared against the public dna and protein databases using blastn blastx and tblastx at national center for biotechnology information and cogeblast . the functional category classification was derived from the blast results based in gene ontology database . cdna inserts were amplified by pcr using the primers actagttaatacgactcactatagggggccgaggcggccgacatgtt and ccatggtattaggtgacactatagaacgcagagtggccattacggcc in well plates . their concentration was adjusted to ng and denatured with n naoh . spotting was done with a pin multi print arrayer using arrays of spots and nl hanging pins . spots were printed onto hybond n nylon _LOCATION_ . after air drying _LOCATION_ were cross linked by uv radiation at sec for min using stratalinker and stored at until usage . hybridization probes were prepared by the retrotranscription of total rna in presence of dctp annealed with oligo using superscript ii rt for min at . the rna strand was hydrolyzed by adding m naoh and the reaction was neutralized by adding m hcl and m tris hcl . probes were purified using bio spin p columns . prehybridization was done with microhyb hybridization buffer dextran sulfate and ml denatured salmon sperm dna . hybridizations were done in the same buffer . washing was done in _PROTEIN_ twice for min at . washed _LOCATION_ were exposed to a phosphoimager screen for d and the screens were scanned in a phosphoimager . hybridizations were done in triplicate . image files were imported into the quantity one program for spot quantification . normalization was done based on the average intensities of seven housekeeping genes actin heat shock protein _PROTEIN_ elongation _PROTEIN_ translation initiation _PROTEIN_ polyubiquitin containing ubiquitin monomer tubulin and ubiquitin extension protein . statistical analysis was done using the student s t test . _PROTEIN_ data on maize genes was obtained in maize genetics and genomics database and maize _METHOD_ browser _METHOD_ _METHOD_ . _PROTEIN_ data on arabidopsis genes was obtained in the arabidopsis _METHOD_ browser _METHOD_ genevestigator and atgeneexpress visualization tool . protein motif analyses were performed in smart targetp chlorop signalp and tmpred . calculation of the hydropathy was done using protscale based on the kyte and doolittle index . the sequence of the maize protein was used as a query for the blasp and tblastn _METHOD_ against several sequence databases including genebank u.s. department of energy joint genome institute plant genomics database graingenes the gene index project rice genome annotation project _METHOD_ dana farber cancer institute maize gene index the institute for genomic research rice genome annotation project _PROTEIN_ the maize genome browser and the arabidopsis information resource . taxonomical classification was determined according to the national center for biotechnology information taxonomy homepage . amino acid sequences were aligned using clustalw . phylogenetic tree was constructed using neighbor joining method using treecon program . total rna was extracted from different tissues using the rneasy plant mini kit according to the manufacturer s instructions . from of total rna dna was synthesized by the omniscript rt kit using an oligo primer according to the manufacturer s instructions . cdna samples were normalized by optical density and pcr reactions were set up in a lightcycler system using sybr premix ex taq using nm of the appropriate primers pairs and of cdna template up to a volume of . reactions included an initial denaturation step at for s followed by cycles of for s for s and for s. melting curve analysis was performed on each sample to ensure single amplicon specificity . actin was used as reference endogenous control for normalization purposes . relative quantification was performed using standard curves from serial dilutions of cdna . the efficiency for all genes tested was greater than . all pcr reactions were performed in triplicate for each rna sample . relative quantification analyses were performed using the lightcycler software . gene specific primers were designed using the primer _PROTEIN_ software _METHOD_ _METHOD_ . specific primers used were for ccggtgttcctgatcttca gcacgtgagcgaggacag and for tcccgcagatcatgatggt cgaacttcttctccacacagtca . dna sequences encoding the complete coding regions of maize and genes were amplified by pcr using the following primers caccatggcgtcgtcgtgccagaac and tttagtgaagaccctcccgcc for and caccatggcggaccgtgaccgcagc and tttcgaggaagccctgccgccgccc for . the resulting coding fragments were cloned into the gateway binary vectors pyl _METHOD_ and pyl _METHOD_ respectively to be driven by a promoter of cauliflower mosaic virus . partial coding regions were obtained using the following primers caccatggcgtcgtcgtgc and _PROTEIN_ for n ob and caccatggcgtcgtcgtgc and _PROTEIN_ for c ob . the resulting fragments were cloned into the gateway binary vector pyl _METHOD_ . the floral dip method was used for arabidopsis stable transformation . for transient transformation tobacco leaves were agroinfiltrated by syringe method into the abbatial side of to week old leaves . the binary plant vectors produced were mixed together with the hc pro silencing suppressor construct . three days after agroinfection transformed leaves were observed . confocal laser scanning microscopy images were acquired using an olympus fluoview inverted confocal laser scanning microscope using water immersion objective . fluorophore emissions were collected sequentially in double labeling experiments . single labeling experiments showed no detectable crossover at the settings used for data collection . _METHOD_ was excited at nm and was detected with the to nm filter set . _METHOD_ was excited at nm and was detected with the to nm filter set . nile red was excited at nm and was detected with the to nm filter set . for arabidopsis embryo ob staining arabidopsis embryos were prepared from freshly harvested seeds and obs were stained with nile red as previously described . the peptide antibody against arabidopsis was produced by abyntek biopharma s.l . using the c terminal peptide cevdikpvesvprvfv . for immunodetection of arabidopsis tissues were homogenized in protein extraction buffer _PROTEIN_ . aliquots of the extracts were subjected to _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and transferred to nitrocellulose _LOCATION_ . proteins were probed against the anti antibody and detected by alkaline phosphatase . isolated embryos were fixed for h in paraformaldehyde and glutaraldehyde in phosphate buffer m ph . following fixation the embryos were washed with phosphate buffer m ph for min resuspended in paraformaldehyde for h and rinsed three times with phosphate buffer . embryos were postfixed for h with osmium tetroxide containing potassium hexacyanoferrate prepared in phosphate buffer followed by four washes with deionized water and sequential dehydration in acetone . all procedures were performed at . samples were embedded in spurr s resin and polymerized at for h. ultrathin sections were obtained with a diamond knife . sections were stained with uranyl acetate and reynolds lead citrate for min and examined with a jeol transmission electron microscope equipped with a gatan ultrascan ccd camera . embryos from three individuals were used in each analysis . for gold immunolabeling ultrathin sections were incubated in phosphate buffer with anti antibody at overnight in a humidified chamber . the grids were washed with tween in phosphate buffered saline and incubated in the blocking solution with a secondary anti rabbit antibody coupled to nm gold particles for h at room temperature . grids were washed five times with tween in phosphate buffered saline for min and washed with phosphate buffered saline and finally with deionized water . grids were stained with uranyl acetate and reynolds lead citrate solutions . five _METHOD_ of dry seeds were homogenized in buffer with a mortar and pestle at . homogenates were filtered through miracloth and centrifuged at rpm for min to remove debris . crude homogenates were then centrifuged at rpm for min at . the floating ob fraction was removed and resuspended in mm tris hcl buffer containing m urea and the nonfloating fraction was stored as _LOCATION_ fraction . the resuspended floating ob fraction was diluted with ml of buffer and obs were recovered by centrifugation as before . this step was repeated twice . both _LOCATION_ and ob fractions were delipidated with volumen of acetone . proteins were recovered by centrifugation at rpm for min . dry pellets were resuspended in mm tris hcl and _PROTEIN_ . protein concentration was determined using protein assay from bio rad . ten _METHOD_ of protein were loaded per lane on _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ gel . lipids were extracted from arabidopsis seeds as previously described by citation not including triolein as an internal standard . tag purification was carried out by one dimensional thin layer chromatography according to citation . fatty acid methyl esters from tags were produced by acid catalyzed transmethylation and analyzed by gas chromatography using a fitted with a capillary column _PROTEIN_ of fused silica and a flame ionization detector . hydrogen was used as carrier gas with a linear flux of ml min and a split ratio of . the injector and detector temperature was and the oven temperature was . heptadecanoic acid was used as internal standard to calculate the lipid content of the samples . sequence data from this article can be found in the genbank/embl data libraries . accession numbers are available in supplemental table . the following materials are available in the online version of this article . supplemental figure . polypeptide sequence alignment of obap proteins . supplemental figure . neighbor joining tree of obap proteins from different species . supplemental figure . _PROTEIN_ analysis of arabidopsis gene based on the _METHOD_ browser database information . supplemental figure . mechanism of ob association . supplemental table . est sequences from immature scutellum library . supplemental table . maize genes represented in the est sequences from immature scutellum library . supplemental table . functional categories of the maize genes represented in the est sequences from immature scutellum library . supplemental table . array hybridization results . supplemental table . species whose genomes contain genes coding for obap proteins .
