successful defence of plants against colonisation by fungal pathogens depends on the ability to prevent initial penetration of the plant cell wall . here we report that the pathogen induced _PROTEIN_ cell wall polymer callose which is deposited at sites of attempted penetration directly interacts with the most prominent cell wall polymer the _PROTEIN_ cellulose to form a three dimensional network at sites of attempted fungal penetration . localisation microscopy a super resolution microscopy technique based on the precise localisation of single _METHOD_ molecules facilitated discrimination between single polymer fibrils in this network . overexpression of the pathogen induced callose synthase _PROTEIN_ in the model plant arabidopsis thaliana not only enlarged focal callose deposition and polymer network formation but also resulted in the exposition of a callose layer on the surface of the pre existing cellulosic cell wall facing the invading pathogen . the importance of this previously unknown polymeric defence network is to prevent cell wall hydrolysis and penetration by the fungus . we anticipate our study to promote nanoscale analysis of plant microbe interactions with a special focus on polymer rearrangements in and at the cell wall . moreover the general applicability of localisation microscopy in visualising polymers beyond plant research will help elucidate their biological function in complex networks .
based on our recent results showing that enlarged pathogen induced callose deposits can effectively prevent fungal penetration we wanted to test whether additional _PROTEIN_ might support callose dependent penetration resistance . therefore we inoculated a. thaliana wild type and _PROTEIN_ overexpressing lines with the _PROTEIN_ powdery mildew g. cichoracearum . as expected from our previous study we did not observe macroscopic disease _METHOD_ on _PROTEIN_ overexpressing plants dpi and microscopic analysis of callose deposits stained with _PROTEIN_ specific aniline blue fluorochrome revealed an elevated callose deposition at sites of attempted fungal penetration in the powdery mildew resistant _PROTEIN_ overexpressing lines compared to wild type . additional confocal laser scanning microscopy _PROTEIN_ of abf stained callose deposits indicated that besides the time point and quantity also the altered structure of callose deposits might influence penetration resistance . at h post inoculation with g. cichoracearum a cone like dense callosic _PROTEIN_ pointed towards the _LOCATION_ at sites of attempted fungal penetration which was similar in wild type and _PROTEIN_ overexpressing lines . the cone like shape resembled previous observations of callose containing papillae of cross sectioned infected epidermal leaf cells in transmission electron microscopy . only callose deposits of the _PROTEIN_ overexpressing lines revealed an additional field of callose that surrounded the dense core region . after three dimensional surface rendering of confocal z stack images the top view onto these enlarged callose deposits revealed a network of callose fibrils whereas the side view resembled a _PROTEIN_ like shape . we then applied localisation microscopy on abf stained callose deposits to obtain structural information about callose fibrils . the prerequisites for an application of localisation microscopy were stochastic intensity fluctuations and photoblinking of the organic fluorophore abf that we observed on stained callose . localisation microscopy of complete callose deposits showed that _PROTEIN_ overexpressing lines had distinct structural differences in the orientation of callose macrofibrils which had a mean diameter of nm . in the central core of the callose deposit callose macrofibrils formed an irregular structure whereas the surrounding field was characterised by a radial orientation of callose macrofibrils . the field of callose was enclosed by a _PROTEIN_ of circular oriented macrofibrils . in wild type plant deposits callose macrofibrils revealed the same irregular structure and diameter as in the core region of callose deposits of the resistant a. thaliana lines . because localisation microscopy facilitated a nanoscale resolution of callose structures we were able to visualise the macrofibril forming network of microfibrils . the diameter of single microfibrils with a mean value of nm corresponded to the size of callose microfibrils synthesised in vitro by detergent extracts from a. thaliana . we did not observe differences in the structure orientation or diameter of callose microfibrils comparing wild type and _PROTEIN_ overexpressing lines . the results from abf stained callose micro and macrofibril networks were confirmed in an additional localisation microscopy approach where we immunolabelled callose with a specific anti callose antibody in combination with a secondary antibody coupled with the fluorophore . this fluorophore belongs to class of caged rhodamines that has been successfully tested in localisation microscopy . the advantage of direct labelling of a polymer versus immunolabelling was the higher resolution . whereas direct abf staining of callose resulted in a maximum resolution of nm a maximum resolution of nm was obtained by immunolabelling of callose . the difference of nm in maximum resolution due to direct abf labelling of callose microfibrils was in the range of the linkage _LOCATION_ of about nm caused by the size of the primary and secondary antibody that was recently described . we then established localisation microscopy with the cellulose specific _METHOD_ dye pontamine fast _PROTEIN_ to enable discrimination of the two polymeric _PROTEIN_ cellulose and callose in complex networks . similar to abf we observed stochastic intensity fluctuations and photoblinking for that allowed an application of localisation microscopy on stained cellulose . in both _PROTEIN_ and localisation microscopy the stained cellulose revealed a structural orientation that resembled the orientation in scanning electron microscopy of cellulosic cell walls from a. thaliana . we determined a mean diameter of nm for the cellulose macrofibrils which is in accordance to the analysis of atomic force microscopy . _PROTEIN_ examination of the interphase of the callose deposit and the cellulosic cell wall after abf and co staining gave first indication of a callose/cellulose polymer interaction where callose fibrils might migrate into and permeate the pre existing cellulosic cell wall . our assumption of a _PROTEIN_ polymer interaction was confirmed when we applied localisation microscopy at the callose/cellulosic cell wall interphase and detected callose fibrils that migrated into and permeated the cellulosic cell wall layer . we observed this direct callose/cellulose polymer interaction in wild type and resistant _PROTEIN_ overexpression lines . however rendering of abf and stained callose/cellulose interphase indicated that the permeation of the complete cellulosic cell wall by callose fibrils was especially pronounced in _PROTEIN_ overexpression plants . whereas we observed a mean of callose fibrils permeating the cellulosic cell wall layer at callose/cellulose interphases in wild type the number of permeation events increased to in resistant _PROTEIN_ overexpression lines . however the density of callose permeation events did not differ between wild type and _PROTEIN_ overexpression lines . these results indicated that the higher total number of permeation events in _PROTEIN_ overexpression lines was due to the _PROTEIN_ expansion of the callose deposit . to evaluate the extent to which callose fibres would permeate the cellulosic cell wall layers we performed localisation microscopy on the surface of abf and stained epidermal leaf cells at hpi with g. cichoracearum . whereas only single callose fibres completely permeated the cellulosic cell wall of wild type epidermal cells a callose layer was formed on top of the pre existing cellulosic cell wall in resistant _PROTEIN_ overexpression lines . the model highlights the observed differences of the pathogen induced callose deposit of the callose/cellulose network within the plant cell wall and in the formation of superficial callose layers which directly face intruding fungal pathogens . digital cross sections of the abf and stained callose/cellulose polymer network at sites of attempted powdery mildew infection suggest that callose fibrils migrated into and permeated the cellulosic layers through internal cell wall nanopores . a permeation of the cell wall through nanopores suggest a gel forming property of callose which is known for _PROTEIN_ . because these nanopores have been predicted as putative entry sites for cell wall degrading enzymes we anticipated an increased resistance of the compact and extended callose/cellulosic polymer network to _PROTEIN_ hydrolases in powdery mildew resistant _PROTEIN_ overexpression lines . to test our hypothesis we applied a harsh hydrolysing treatment to a. thaliana leaves at hpi with the powdery mildew g. cichoracearum . after an accellerase treatment a cell wall degrading hydrolysing enzyme complex used for biotechnological _METHOD_ conversion at for h we observed a strong degradation of the pathogen induced callose/cellulosic polymer network at sites of attempted fungal penetration in wild type leaves whereas the enhanced _PROTEIN_ polymer networks remained intact in the resistant _PROTEIN_ overexpressing lines . this suggests that the complete penetration resistance of _PROTEIN_ overexpressing a. thaliana lines is based on a physical strengthening of the cell wall at infection sites which includes the establishment of a physical barrier against pathogen secreted cell wall hydrolases . in our model of the penetration resistance of the _PROTEIN_ overexpressing lines we consider the defence related _PROTEIN_ polymer callose to seal cell wall nanopores and to form a callose layer on the cellulosic cell wall surface which prevents ingress of cwde secreted by the invading pathogens .
cultivation of a. thaliana wild type and _PROTEIN_ overexpression line _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ from our previous study as well as inoculation of three week old plants with the powdery mildew g. cichoracearum followed the description in stein et al. . rosette leaves were harvested h post inoculation and destained in ethanol prior _PROTEIN_ staining . aniline blue fluorochrome was used for specific callose staining according to manufacturer 's instructions and pontamine fast _PROTEIN_ for specific cellulose staining according to anderson et al. . datasets for localisation microscopy were acquired on a custom modified nikon stochastic optical reconstruction microscope _PROTEIN_ . the microscope was equipped with an apo _PROTEIN_ oil immersion objective with a numerical aperture of an electron multiplying charge coupled device camera and a quadband filter composed of a quad line _METHOD_ _PROTEIN_ and a quad line emission filter . for excitation of abf a mw nm diode laser and for excitation of a mw nm optically pumped semiconductor laser were used . single colour datasets were acquired with continuous illumination . for two colour imaging the lasers were switched on and off alternately controlled by an acoustooptic tunable filter _PROTEIN_ . the integration time of the emccd camera was set to _METHOD_ per frame with an em gain of . the focus was kept stable during acquisition using nikon 's perfect focus system . super resolution images were reconstructed from a series of widefield images per channel using the n _PROTEIN_ analysis module v. of nis elements ar v. . super resolution microscopy was performed using an astigmatism based approach according to huang et al. . for each colour channel a separate calibration curve was used . intensity fluctuations and photoblinking of abf and were analysed in nis elements ar v. . bitplane imaris . _PROTEIN_ was used for visualization of super resolution images . immunolabelling of deposited callose in destained a. thaliana leaves h post inoculation with a callose specific monoclonal anti _PROTEIN_ antibody as primary antibody and the fluorophore labelled secondary antibody cage was done as described in ellinger et al. . localisation microscopy of immunolabelled callose was performed with a zeiss super resolution system . the setup included the objective alpha plan apochromat oil dic an ixon back thinned emccd camera and a multi purpose filter set for excitation and detection with direct _PROTEIN_ . in order to efficiently excite and detect cage a mw nm optically pumped semiconductor laser and a _PROTEIN_ nm emission filter _PROTEIN_ were used . the detection of the blinking fluorophore was achieved with an exposure time of _METHOD_ per frame and an emccd gain at level dstorm super resolution pictures were composed after a time series of widefield images with zeiss zen software and zeiss software module photoactivated localisation microscopy _PROTEIN_ . confocal laser scanning microscopy of abf stained callose followed the description in ellinger et al. . the zeiss lsm microscope was used . was excited at nm by using an optically pumped semiconductor laser . emission filtering was achieved using a nm bandpass filter . emission signals were gathered by a gallium arsenite phosphid nondescanned photodetector . image processing including maximum intensity reconstruction surface rendering and video generation was performed with integral functions of the zen operating software . a. thaliana leaves were harvested hpi destained in ethanol and co stained with abf and to measure the relative emitted _METHOD_ intensity of callose and cellulose at site of callose deposition and callose/cellulose polymer network formation before enzymatic treatment . for measuring the relative emitted _METHOD_ intensity sites of callose deposition were manually selected on confocal laser scanning micrographs by using the image processing software adobe photoshop extended edition _METHOD_ and the integral function of histogram and the average of luminescence as the channel for relative abf emission quantification and the average of channel red for relative emission quantification . values are based on the rgb colour space ranging from to . normalization of data was done against the abf or background _METHOD_ outside the callose deposit and callose/cellulose polymer network at sites of attempted fungal penetration . subsequently leaves were incubated in ml of m sodium acetate buffer supplemented with of accellerase cellulase enzyme complex for lignocellulosic cell wall hydrolysis for h at . leaves were removed from accellerase solution washed twice with water and co stained again with abf and to measure the relative emitted _METHOD_ intensity at sites callose deposition and callose/cellulose polymer network formation after enzymatic treatment . descriptive statistics including the mean and whisker of boxplots along with the tukey range test for multiple comparison procedures in conjunction with _PROTEIN_ and with the student 's t test for pairwise comparison were used to determine significant differences . p < was considered significant .
