abscisic acid regulates numerous physiological and developmental processes in plants . recent studies identify intracellular aba receptors implicating the transport of aba across cell _LOCATION_ as crucial for aba sensing and response . here we report that a dtx/multidrug and toxic compound extrusion family member in arabidopsis thaliana functions as an aba efflux transporter . when _PROTEIN_ heterologously in both an escherichia coli strain and xenopus oocyte cells was found to facilitate aba efflux . furthermore mutant mesophyll cells preloaded with aba released less aba compared with the wild type . the gene was _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ in the vascular tissues and guard cells and its _PROTEIN_ was strongly up regulated by exogenous aba . the _METHOD_ fusion protein was localized predominantly to the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ . the mutant plants were observed to be more sensitive to aba in growth inhibition . in addition compared with the wt mutant plants were more tolerant to drought with lower stomatal conductance consistent with its function as an aba efflux carrier in guard cells .
after initial characterization of the dtx/mate family we carried out a comprehensive reverse genetic analysis of all the family members using t dna insertion mutants in arabidopsis . homozygous insertion line of genes were initially identified and compared with the wt plants . when grown on _METHOD_ medium or in the soil under normal greenhouse conditions most of these mutant lines did not show any obvious difference from the wt . however an insertion mutant of the gene was found to be significantly smaller and more yellowish when grown in the soil . this mutant did not show much phenotypic difference from the wt when grown on _METHOD_ medium . the mutant carries a t dna insertion in the only exon of the gene . rt pcr showed that mrna was not detectable in the mutant line and the phenotype was complemented by transforming the mutant plants with complementation construct . since the mate/dtx family was previously reported to transport toxic compounds and organic acids we further tested the mutant on growth medium supplied with several organic acids including citrate malate anthocyanidin tetramethylammonium and alkaloids and no difference was observed . but interestingly when tested on growth medium supplied with plant hormones including gibberellic acid ja auxins and aba which all fall into the organic acid category plants showed a more severe growth inhibition by aba as compared to the wt but no difference was found on other hormones tested . when week old seedlings were transferred onto _METHOD_ medium containing aba plants displayed bleached leaves shorter primary roots and fewer _PROTEIN_ roots . the complementation line showed a similar phenotype to the wt . further on aba containing medium the mutant died much earlier than the wt and complementation plants namely the aerial parts of plants turned brown and dried sooner than the wt . to further investigate aba responses in the mutant we performed germination assays . on _METHOD_ medium without aba the mutant seeds germinated more slowly as compared with the wt seeds in a time course analysis . on _METHOD_ medium containing aba the mutant seeds showed a lower germination rate at all aba concentrations tested suggesting that seed germination of the mutant is hypersensitive to aba . the mutant showed growth inhibition by aba and was hypersensitive to aba in seed germination suggesting that the mutant may accumulate more aba and/or is altered in aba response . we thus compared aba contents of wt mutant and complementation lines . when grown in the soil or on _METHOD_ medium leaves of plants contained a higher level of aba . furthermore real time quantitative pcr showed that the _PROTEIN_ of several aba marker genes was up regulated in the mutant . among four tested marker genes three of them including _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ were found to be _PROTEIN_ at a higher level although _PROTEIN_ of _PROTEIN_ was not altered . we concluded that accumulates more aba in the cell of rosette leaves thus increasing the level of aba response . from results described above aba hypersensitivity in the mutant may have been caused by higher aba levels in the cell . as belongs to the dtx/mate family transporters that often mediate efflux of organic acids we suspected that may function as an aba efflux transporter . this would be consistent with the hyperaccumulation of aba in the mutant . therefore we tested this hypothesis by transport assays using three different _METHOD_ including an escherichia coli mutant line xenopus oocytes and arabidopsis protoplasts . mutant carries a deletion in the chromosomal acrab genes and is therefore sensitive to many drugs that are substrates of the acrab efflux system . cells were preloaded with h aba and aba release was measured by monitoring the radioactivity retained in the cells . the results showed that cells _PROTEIN_ retained less is released the control . similar results were observed by a different assay using unlabeled aba detected by an aba immunoassay kit . these results indicated that cells _PROTEIN_ released more aba to the medium and thus suggested that mediates aba efflux . further evidence for as an aba efflux transporter was obtained by _PROTEIN_ of in the xenopus oocytes . a final concentration of h aba was injected into oocytes and the aba released into the buffer was monitored . oocytes _PROTEIN_ released more aba than the control along the same time course . these results indicated that functions as an aba efflux transporter in both heterologous _METHOD_ . to verify that played a role in aba efflux in planta we performed aba release experiments using mesophyll protoplasts from the wt and plants . similarly h aba was preloaded into the protoplasts and aba release was detected by the radiolabeled aba retained in the cells . the results showed significantly less aba release from cells when compared with those from the wt and the complementation line . taken together these data strongly supported the conclusion that functions as an aba efflux transporter . to evaluate substrate specificity of substrate competition assays experiments were performed . results showed that displayed a higher affinity for aba than aba as its substrate . other tested plant hormones such as ga and indoleacetic acid did not inhibit the h aba release . these results suggest that specifically mediates aba efflux and does not transport ga or iaa . in order to analyze the _PROTEIN_ patterns of the gene we first performed a set of real time q pcr experiments and the results showed that was _PROTEIN_ at a significantly higher level in leaves than other tissues including roots _METHOD_ flowers and siliques . when week old seedlings were transferred to _METHOD_ medium containing aba and incubated for d the levels of gene _PROTEIN_ increased . to further investigate the tissue specific and aba inducible _PROTEIN_ pattern promoter region of gene was fused to the _PROTEIN_ reporter and transformed into arabidopsis . we found that gus activity was detected _PROTEIN_ in the vascular tissues of leaves roots and germinating seeds but not detectable in _METHOD_ flowers or siliques . after treatment with aba gus activity was strongly up regulated in guard cells mesophyll cells and vascular tissues . to determine the subcellular localization of we made a _METHOD_ fusion construct under the control of promoter _METHOD_ and transiently transformed into arabidopsis protoplasts . _METHOD_ signal produced by _METHOD_ was weak in mesophyll protoplasts when incubated in the buffer without aba . as was inducible by aba treatment in the mesophyll cells we added aba to a final into the protoplast buffer and found that the _METHOD_ signal appeared predominantly at the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ after the treatment . further evidence supporting a _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ localization of was obtained using transient _PROTEIN_ in onion epidermal cells . when _METHOD_ plasmid was delivered into the onion epidermal cells by bombardment the transient _PROTEIN_ of _METHOD_ was observed on the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ . these data strongly suggest that is a _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ localized protein consistent with its role in aba efflux . as described above may function as an aba efflux transporter that controls aba accumulation in various cell types . it is thus possible that may be involved in drought stress response . we tested this possibility by withholding water for weeks from week old plants under short day greenhouse conditions . we found that leaves of the mutant wilted more slowly than those of the wt or complementation plants and the _METHOD_ of held upright for longer as well . furthermore overexpression plants showed more rapid wilting under drought stress . this indicated that mutant plants may have lost water more slowly than the wt plants . indeed when we measured water loss from wt and mutant rosette leaves at with humidity under the light detached leaves of plants lost water more slowly than those of wt plants . we further measured stomatal movement in response to aba in the mutant and wt plants . leaves of both and wt plants were pre incubated in stomatal opening buffer for followed by addition of aba into the buffer . stomatal aperture was measured every for a total of . the results showed that stomata closed more rapidly in mutant than in wt in response to aba . taken together these data suggest that more aba may have accumulated in the guard cells which in turn caused more rapid stomatal closure under drought conditions . reduced stomatal aperture in mutant plants may be responsible for the better tolerance to drought stress .
all arabidopsis plants were grown in soil under greenhouse conditions or on _METHOD_ medium supplied with vitamin sucrose and agar in a growth chamber . mutant seeds were obtained from the arabidopsis biological resource center _PROTEIN_ and mutant is as . for each promoter construct an approximately kb fragment upstream of the start codon was pcr amplified using primers listed in . the purified fragment was then cloned into t easy vector and verified by sequencing . then the promoter fragment was released by cutting with bam hi and xba i and inserted into binary vector . gene with promoter was pcr amplified from genomic dna and put into using bam hi and xba i sites and put into the with the promoter region deleted . the gene was pcr amplified and put into the vector and ptrc vector . for complementation experiments np plasmid was transformed into agrobacteria and then transformed into mutant by the floral dip method . was transformed into wt arabidopsis plants to make overexpression plants . control transformations were performed with empty vectors of into and plasmid with _METHOD_ fragment into wt . the aba concentration in leaves was measured with a phytodetek aba enzyme immunoassay test kit . frozen samples were pulverized under liquid nitrogen extracted with the solution of methanol mg l butylated hydroxytoluene and g l citric acid monohydrate . ml was added to about of tissue stirred overnight at in the dark and subsequently centrifuged at g for at . the supernatant was transferred to a new tube and dried under vacuum . the dried residue was dissolved in of methanol and of tbs buffer and analyzed directly or diluted with tbs to bring aba levels within the linear range of the aba standard curve of the assay . total rna was extracted from roots leaves flowers _METHOD_ and siliques . samples were collected from col plants grown in soil for weeks . samples of mutant leaves were collected to test the aba response gene _PROTEIN_ for the comparison with wt . primers used for all q pcr assays are present in . q pcr analysis was performed on a bio rad q pcr machine . the absolute copy number was determined for each transcript using recombinant rna calibration curves for each gene generated from full length cdna fragments . protoplasts were incubated in ml of a bathing solution containing nm h aba . transport activity tests were performed by monitoring radioactivity using liquid scintillation counting . cells were re suspended in lb medium to an od of and iptg was added in the medium to induce the _PROTEIN_ . when od reached at about the bacteria cells were collected and incubated in h aba buffer for . then cells were washed five times on ice and aba release was tested under . the radioactivity was monitored by liquid scintillation counting . for substrate cis inhibition assays h aba was loaded in the absence or presence of an additional three fold excess of the competing compounds including unlabeled aba aba indole acetic acid or ga in the loading buffer . gene was cloned into the pgemhe _PROTEIN_ vector used for xenopus oocytes . crna was prepared using the mmessage mmachine transcription kit . approximately ng of each tested crna in a total volume of nl was injected into each oocyte cell . after incubation for d the oocytes were injected with aba in detail nl of mm aba was injected into each oocyte . the oocytes were recovered on ice for then for each sample in one pool containing three oocytes every the aba concentration of the buffer was tested using a phytodetek aba immunoassay kit . _METHOD_ and _METHOD_ constructs were introduced into arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts prepared from rosette leaves by the polyethyleneglycol mediated transformation procedure respectively . protoplast cells were further re suspended in ml wash solution and cultured for in the dark at room temperature . confocal images were captured using zeiss live equipment . the _METHOD_ signals were excited at nm for _METHOD_ . gus staining was performed according to a standard protocol . the observation of gus stained plants was conducted under a zeiss stemi and digital images were captured . for aba treatment leaves of week old gus transgenic plants were sprayed with aba and collected for gus staining after . details of arabidopsis whole rosette gas exchange measurements are as described previously . to analyze stomatal responses to different _PROTEIN_ concentrations the leaves of plants were exposed to ppm . _PROTEIN_ for stabilization then the _PROTEIN_ concentration was changed to ppm for followed by ppm for and then back to ppm _PROTEIN_ for . the stomatal conductance of each mutant and wt line was detected using an ecotek li . to test the stomatal aperture with responses to aba leaves were immersed in stomatal opening buffer for then aba was added to a final concentration of aba . epidermal strips were peeled and pictures were taken under a versatile microscope . stomatal apertures were then measured using software of q image .
