ribosome biogenesis is an essential process in all _METHOD_ . in eukaryotes multiple ribosome biogenesis _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ act in the processing of ribosomal rnas assembly of ribosomal subunits and their export to the cytoplasm . we characterized two genes in arabidopsis thaliana coding for orthologs of yeast _PROTEIN_ a protein involved in maturation of the large ribosomal subunit . both proteins encoded by _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ respectively are _PROTEIN_ localized in the nucleolus and are ubiquitously _PROTEIN_ throughout plant development and in various tissues . mutant plant lines for both _PROTEIN_ show a delay in development and pointed leaves can be observed in the mutant implying a link between ribosome biogenesis and plant development . in addition the pre rrna processing is affected in both mutants . analysis of the pre rrna intermediates revealed that early processing steps can occur either in the external transcribed spacer or internal transcribed spacer _PROTEIN_ . interestingly we also find that in _PROTEIN_ mutants early processing events can be bypassed and removal of the ets is initiated by cleavage at the processing site . while the pathways of pre rrna processing are comparable to those of yeast and mammalian cells the balance between the two processing pathways is different in plants . furthermore plant specific steps such as an additional processing site in the ets likely post transcriptional processing of the early cleavage sites and accumulation of a extended rrna not observed in other eukaryotes can be detected .
two orthologs of yeast have been identified in a. thaliana _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ . they share and sequence similarity with their yeast ortholog respectively and are _METHOD_ similar in sequence . both show the same architecture to the yeast protein but additionally possess a charged extension at the aminoterminus . this prompted us to investigate whether they are _PROTEIN_ in a tissue specific manner . we isolated rna from wild type a. thaliana plants at different developmental stages and from different organs and analyzed the abundance of mrnas coding for both orthologs by qrt pcr . the abundance of the _PROTEIN_ mrna was comparable in most tissues and only in roots and flowers of old plants tissues with a higher demand for newly synthesized ribosomes _PROTEIN_ of the _PROTEIN_ mrna appears to be enhanced . however by statistical analysis this increase was not found to be significant . furthermore we analyzed the presence of both proteins at different developmental stages and in different organs by western blotting using an antibody generated against a mixture of full length and . as a control we analyzed the abundance of using a specific antibody generated against full length . we found that both proteins are _PROTEIN_ in all analyzed tissues but comparison to revealed a decline of abundance after day in nonreproductive tissues like rosette stem and hypsophyll . thus the protein abundance in different tissues likely reflects the demand for ribosome biogenesis as it is high in young developing tissues and reduced in leaves stem hypsophyll and seeds which are tissues with reduced rate of cell division . interestingly inspection of the coexpression analysis using string shows that both _PROTEIN_ genes are coexpressed with genes that are orthologs of yeast _PROTEIN_ . like all these orthologs are involved in the maturation of and preribosomal complexes and at least _PROTEIN_ and have also been found in the yeast complexes isolated by tap tagged . next the subcellular localization of both proteins was analyzed . _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ tagged and proteins were transiently overexpressed in protoplasts under the control of the promoter . full length fusion protein _PROTEIN_ was confirmed by western blotting using an anti _METHOD_ antibody . _METHOD_ shows one band of the expected size while _METHOD_ shows a double band suggesting that the protein _PROTEIN_ from this construct is partially unstable . both proteins are _PROTEIN_ localized to the nucleolus as judged from the overlay of the _METHOD_ signal of _METHOD_ proteins and the _METHOD_ of fibrillarin mcherry as a nucleolar marker . these results are consistent with the nucleolar localization of yeast and mammalian _PROTEIN_ . the interaction of both proteins with ribosomes was studied using sucrose density gradient centrifugation . with the conditions used here polysomes and ribosomes were unstable but distinct peaks corresponding to fractions containing mature and pre rrnas ribosomal proteins and the _PROTEIN_ clearly demonstrated the separation of the and particles . interestingly both proteins comigrate in the fractions corresponding to pre complexes suggesting that they are both involved in ribosome biogenesis . we selected one salk and one gabi kat transfer dna insertion line for _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ respectively to further investigate the functions of both proteins in vivo . screening pcrs on genomic dna and sequencing analysis revealed a single back to back t dna insertion in both lines and . in addition and are homozygous lines as the wild type allele was no longer detectable . as expected we detected a transcript upstream of the t dna insertion for both lines but a full length transcript was not detected in either plant line . however in a transcript downstream from the insertion exists as well likely caused by the promoter in the t dna close to the left border . most important the homozygosis of both lines was confirmed by western blot using the antibody on protein extracts from wild type and mutant flowers . the corresponding full length protein was not detected in and confirming that these lines are suitable to analyze the consequence of an absence of and in vivo . nevertheless accumulates slightly in the mutant possibly to compensate for the loss of . this suggests that both orthologs are redundant . next we analyzed the phenotype of the two mutant lines . we observed a growth delay in both lines and an overall slower growth rate of . furthermore development of the first rosette leaves was impaired in both lines but was also more pronounced for . interestingly showed a slight pointed leaf phenotype that has previously been observed in ribosomal proteins mutants . development of all following rosette leaves as well as flowering was also more delayed in than in . however crossing of both mutants did not lead to a double homozygous mutant supporting that the orthologs are redundant . to gain insight into whether the proteins are required for rrna processing we isolated total rna from wild type and seedlings resolved it on high resolution agarose glyoxal or polyacrylamide gels and detected pre rrnas by northern blotting using a variety of probes hybridizing to different regions of the pre rrna transcripts . importantly probes annealing between each of the known/proposed cleavage sites in the pre rrna were used enabling each of the intermediate detected to be defined . with all probes shown in figure the pre rrna extending from site p in the ets and extending into the ets can be detected . a pre rrna can be detected with probes and but not with or . the end of is therefore generated by cleavage at site and this precursor lacks the ets . although this intermediate has been observed previously the processing steps/cleavage sites by which it is generated have remained unclear until now . furthermore and recognize the recently described pre rrna that comigrates with under these conditions . we also observed the pre rrna with probes and . interestingly the end of this intermediate was previously thought to be generated by cleavage however our data show that pre rrnas extending to can also be detected . in addition the pre rrna was observed to accumulate significantly . this is also the case in yeast where it is proposed that downstream preribosomal remodeling steps are rate limiting for pre rrna processing . furthermore multiple extended precursors of the rrna named p and can be detected with probes and . the ends of all of these pre rrnas are extended to site because they are recognized by which anneals immediately upstream of site . interestingly the precursor of the rrna that extends from the end of to the cleavage site and is highly abundant in yeast is not observed in a. thaliana wild type seedlings . on the polyacrylamide gel the conserved extended precursors and can be seen with probe . in addition a extended pre rrna containing the mature end of can be detected with . all pre rrna intermediates described above were also detected in both mutants . the level of the pre rrna was unaltered in the mutants and was therefore used to determine the relative accumulations of other pre rrna species in the different lines . in both mutants the and pre rrnas accumulated fold compared with wild type while the levels of p were reduced by half . consistent with this the ratio between p and was five times lower than the ratio determined in wild type . the ratio between and was unaltered in the mutants . interestingly the pre rrna becomes visible in both mutants although at low levels . these results show that only a subset of the pre rrna intermediates are affected by mutation of _PROTEIN_ and support a function of both proteins in pre subunit maturation in a. thaliana . the new insights into the cleavages in both the ets and _PROTEIN_ that are used to generate pre rrna intermediates found in wild type plants imply that rrna maturation could be more complex than previously thought . to gain further information about these pathways we also examined plant lines lacking the exonuclease _PROTEIN_ that have previously been shown to exhibit severe pre rrna processing defects . _PROTEIN_ is one of the three homologs for yeast _LOCATION_ exonuclease . in yeast this protein is involved in the maturation of and rrnas in rna decay as well as in transcription termination . mammalian _PROTEIN_ has been shown to be required for pre rrna processing at site . _PROTEIN_ mutant plants do not show any visible phenotype but accumulate extended rrna precursors that have not been efficiently processed at site p . furthermore in _PROTEIN_ mutant plants processing also appears to be impaired because ets degradation intermediates extending between site p and accumulate in the mutant . by northern blot analysis we observed a ets extended and p pre rrnas in the _PROTEIN_ mutant supporting the conclusion that _PROTEIN_ is required for p site cleavage and removal of an arabidopsis specific insertion in the ets . interestingly the and pre rrnas accumulated to normal levels in the _PROTEIN_ mutant suggesting that p site cleavage can be bypassed and downstream processing steps can occur normally leading to normal levels of the mature rrnas . it is not clear whether cleavage of site is a prerequisite for processing as pre rrna intermediates specifically generated by this cleavage are not detectable however comparison to mammalian ets processing might suggest that cleavage at and occur almost simultaneously as has been proposed for and . this suggests that the mature end of the rrna can be generated even if early ets processing is impaired .
for protein localization analysis the coding sequences of and were amplified from cdna and cloned into the prtds vector to generate _PROTEIN_ terminal _METHOD_ fusions for _PROTEIN_ in protoplasts . prtds _PROTEIN_ mcherry was used as a nucleolar marker . a. thaliana leaf mesophyll protoplasts were isolated transformed and visualized as previously described . the coding sequences of and were amplified from cdna and cloned into a modified vector for amino terminal fusion with a tag . proteins were _PROTEIN_ in star prosetta cells for h at with mm iptg . all proteins were purified using ninta under denaturing conditions in a buffer containing mm tris ph mm nacl and m guanidium hydrochloride . the denatured proteins were mixed in a molar ratio and used for antibody generation in rabbits . and were used to immunize one rabbit each . for antibody purification the buffer of the proteins was exchanged to m m nacl and m urea for coupling to _PROTEIN_ sepharose . the _PROTEIN_ was then prepared and the antibody was purified according to the manufacturer 's protocol . for western blotting the antibody was used in a dilution . for and the serum was used directly for western blotting at a dilution . sucrose density gradients were performed as described because we observed inefficient release of nucleolar preribosomes using our standard procedure . total cell lysate from a. thaliana cell culture was separated on a sucrose gradient by centrifugation for h at in a _PROTEIN_ rotor . fractions were collected and analyzed as described previously . first strand cdna from of rna was synthesized using m mulv reverse transcriptase according to the manufacturer 's protocol . the relative _PROTEIN_ of _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ mrnas was quantified by qrt pcr as previously described . for the analysis of the protein abundance of and in different developmental stages or different organs the tissue material was ground and directly resuspended in cracking buffer _PROTEIN_ m urea mm tris hcl ph mm edta mg/ml bromophenol blue mm mercaptoethanol mm _METHOD_ . after incubation at for min and centrifugation at for min the supernatant was quantified using amido black protein quantification . equal amounts of protein were loaded onto _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and subjected to western blotting using the antibody . western blots of biological replicates were quantified using imagej . the search for orthologs of was performed with in paranoid . t dna insertion lines for _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ were ordered from the nottingham arabidopsis stock centre . plants were grown in climate chambers under long day conditions . genomic dna for screening pcrs was isolated as previously described . t dna mapping was performed as previously described . the t dna insertion mutants were further verified by reverse transcription pcr and western blotting . for the latter one flower was ground in cracking buffer using an eppi pestle before addition of another cracking buffer and incubation at for min . after centrifugation at for min the supernatant was analyzed by _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and western blotting . growth stage based phenotypic analysis was performed as described . total rna from d old seedlings or flowers was isolated as previously described with some modifications . briefly mg of tissue was frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground to a fine powder . three milliliters of solution d sodium lauroyl sarcosinate and of m sodium acetate ph were added and vigorously mixed . three milliliters of acid saturated phenol and chloroform were added mixed and incubated on ice for min . after centrifugation the aqueous phase was extracted once with phenol chloroform isoamylalcohol and once with chloroform before precipitation with one volume isopropanol . rna was pelleted further purified using the nucleospin rna kit and eluted with rnase free . five _METHOD_ of total rna was resolved on a agarose gel in _PROTEIN_ buffer _PROTEIN_ or on an m urea gel in tbe buffer before blotting on nylon n _LOCATION_ . rnas were cross linked to the _LOCATION_ using a stratalinker and probed with end labelled oligonucleotide probes as previously described . the probes used are listed in table .
