salt and drought stress severely reduce plant growth and crop productivity worldwide . the identification of genes underlying stress response and tolerance is the subject of intense research in plant biology . through microarray analyses we previously identified in potato strgga coding for an arginine glycine glycine box containing rna binding protein whose _PROTEIN_ was specifically induced in potato cell cultures gradually exposed to osmotic stress . here we show that the arabidopsis ortholog atrgga is a functional rna binding protein required for a proper response to osmotic stress . atrgga gene _PROTEIN_ was up regulated in seedlings after long term exposure to abscisic acid and polyethylene glycol while treatments with nacl resulted in atrgga down regulation . atrgga promoter analysis showed activity in several tissues including stomata the organs controlling transpiration . fusion of atrgga with yellow _METHOD_ protein indicated that atrgga is localized in the cytoplasm and the cytoplasmic perinuclear region . in addition the rgga knockout mutant was hypersensitive to aba in root growth and survival tests and to salt stress during germination and at the vegetative stage . atrgga overexpressing plants showed higher tolerance to aba and salt stress on plates and in soil accumulating lower levels of proline when exposed to drought stress . finally a global analysis of gene _PROTEIN_ revealed extensive alterations in the transcriptome under salt stress including several genes such as ascorbate glutathione s transferase and several small auxin upregulated rna like genes showing opposite _PROTEIN_ behavior in transgenic and knockout plants . taken together our results reveal an important role of atrgga in the _METHOD_ of plant response and _PROTEIN_ to stress .
in a previous study we isolated strgga whose gene _PROTEIN_ is specifically induced in culture cells of potato gradually _PROTEIN_ to high concentrations of peg . exposure of potato cells to abrupt osmotic stress did not elicit a change in strgga transcript abundance . the deduced protein sequence of strgga shares sequence homology with the protein encoded by the locus _GENE_ of arabidopsis which therefore is hypothesized to be the arabidopsis ortholog . to investigate whether atrgga was also induced by stress treatments in arabidopsis we analyzed gene _PROTEIN_ in cells and seedlings exposed to nacl and osmotic stress . aba treatments were also included to assess a possible involvement of the hormone in the regulation of atrgga transcript abundance . in cells nacl aba and peg treatments induced a significant up regulation of atrgga compared with control untreated cells . induction seemed to be highest after nacl treatment which however also caused a reduction in cell viability . in seedlings h treatments with different concentrations of nacl caused a slight down regulation of atrgga _PROTEIN_ while there was an up regulation in seedlings exposed for d to aba and peg indicating that atrgga transcript abundance is reduced by salt stress in the short term but increased over longer periods of exposure to aba and osmotic stress . protein sequence analysis of atrgga showed the presence of a suppressor of _PROTEIN_ domain found at the n terminal region of the yeast _LOCATION_ acid binding protein and a hyaluronan binding activator inhibitor mrna binding _PROTEIN_ domain found in _PROTEIN_ suggesting that atrgga could be an _PROTEIN_ . to verify this hypothesis an rna electromobility shift assay _METHOD_ was performed using recombinant his tagged atrgga and total rna extracted from control as well as salt stressed whole seedlings . rna was labeled with biotin and incubated with or without his rgga prior to electrophoresis in native conditions . a recombinant version of the _PROTEIN_ aba receptor his _PROTEIN_ was used as a negative control . as shown in figure an rna mobility shift was specifically observed when rna was incubated with atrgga indicating that atrgga was capable of binding rna and the binding was competed by adding an excess of unlabeled rna thus showing that atrgga is a bona fide _PROTEIN_ . to assess the specificity of atrgga binding to rna poly and poly rna fractions were used for rna _METHOD_ . a band shift after incubation with his rgga was observed when poly rna was used indicating that rgga binds to one or more rnas contained in the poly rna fraction . to gain insights into the function of atrgga in plants we proceeded to analyze its _PROTEIN_ pattern and subcellular localization . transgenic plants _PROTEIN_ the gus reporter gene driven by the putative promoter of atrgga were stained using bromo chloro indolyl _PROTEIN_ to visualize the spatial and temporal patterns of activity of the atrgga promoter . as shown in figure gus activity was visualized both in seedlings and in adult plants in several organs including leaves roots inflorescences and siliques . interestingly within leaves a strong staining of stomata was observed indicating the _PROTEIN_ of atrgga in guard cells . in reproductive organs gus activity was visualized in pollen grains and tubes of germinating pollen as well as in funiculi attaching seeds to siliques . results gathered by gus staining assays were generally consistent with publicly available _PROTEIN_ data showing the presence of atrgga transcript in all analyzed tissues . to analyze atrgga protein subcellular localization we generated transgenic plants overexpressing a yellow _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ rgga fusion protein . young seedlings of _METHOD_ rgga were observed by confocal laser scanning microscopy following a short incubation in propidium iodide to counterstain cell walls . as shown in figure in cells of the root apex where _LOCATION_ are less developed a clear _METHOD_ signal was observed in the cytoplasm . upon prolonged incubation in propidium iodide solution minor staining of _LOCATION_ dna could be achieved . in this case we observed exclusion of _METHOD_ rgga from the _LOCATION_ in cells of the root elongation zone while strong _METHOD_ _METHOD_ was visualized in the perinuclear region of the cytoplasm . in leaf tissues _METHOD_ signal was especially strong in stomata . similar results were obtained using transgenic plants _PROTEIN_ a c terminal fusion of atrgga with _METHOD_ . together the protein subcellular localization studies indicate that atrgga localizes in the cytoplasm and the perinuclear region . to characterize the role of atrgga in plant responses to salt and drought stress a transfer dna insertion mutant in which atrgga gene _PROTEIN_ is abolished was obtained from the arabidopsis biological resource center and transgenic plants overexpressing a _PROTEIN_ rgga fusion protein were generated . in control conditions rgga plants appeared to have larger rosettes compared with wild type columbia plants and showed delayed flowering in a long day regime . phenotype analyses in the presence of stress were conducted at different developmental stages . at the germination stage rgga displayed a higher sensitivity to nacl compared with wild type col . in particular while an average of of col seeds presented fully expanded cotyledons after d of exposure to nacl only of rgga seeds were germinated . in contrast seeds of overexpressing plants _PROTEIN_ did not show any significant differences in their ability to germinate in salt stress medium compared with the wild type or controls transformed with the empty vector . survival tests instead showed differences in the ability to withstand salt stress conditions of both mutant and overexpressing plants compared with controls . after d of exposure to high salt conditions both the knockout mutant and overexpressing plants showed significantly different survival percentages from the wild type . more than of seedlings of three different overexpressing lines did not display any signs of necrosis or bleaching compared with of col seedlings while rgga seedlings were more sensitive to salt stress with only of plants surviving long term exposure to nacl . differences in sensitivity to salt stress also could be observed visually . closure of stomata when exposed to a dry environment is an important aba dependent mechanism contributing to plant stress tolerance whose efficiency can be inferred by measuring the decline in fresh weight of detached leaves in a time course . therefore water loss measurements during the course of h were performed on both rgga mutant and _PROTEIN_ rgga plants . as shown in figure wild type col and rgga had lost a similar amount of water while leaves detached from overexpressing plants retained a higher amount of water having lost of their initial fresh weight thus suggesting that an increased _PROTEIN_ of atrgga results in a more efficient closure of stomata in drought stress conditions . to further assess the role of rgga in aba dependent _METHOD_ of response to environmental stresses root growth and survival tests in the presence of aba were performed . root growth experiments on plates showed a hypersensitivity of rgga to the presence of aba in the medium while overexpressing plants did not display significant differences as compared with col . in _METHOD_ of survival of aba exposure d of treatment could highlight significant differences between genotypes . _PROTEIN_ rgga plants showed a higher ability to tolerate the presence of aba in the medium with of plants still surviving after d of exposure to the hormone while the mutant only had about of individuals still surviving and the wild type had about . opposite phenotypes of mutant and transgenic plants in _METHOD_ of survival of stress conditions were also observed in soil grown plants . when drought or salt stress was imposed the rgga mutant appeared more sensitive than the wild type with a more obvious bleaching of leaves . in contrast overexpressing plants showed less wilting and bleaching _METHOD_ in the presence of salt and drought stress compared with col . pro content after prolonged exposure to salt and drought stress was measured in the wild type rgga and _PROTEIN_ rgga . as shown in figure levels of pro in control conditions were similar with less than mmol fresh weight for all the tested genotypes . after d of exposure to drought or salt stress there was a dramatic increase in pro content with levels quintupling in col and rgga . in atrgga overexpressing plants the increase in pro was less sharp particularly after drought stress where plants from three independent transgenic lines accumulated significantly less pro . in salt stress however only one of the three tested lines was significantly different from wild type or rgga levels . to analyze the impact of a modified _PROTEIN_ of atrgga on the arabidopsis transcriptome microarray analyses were performed on rna extracted from atrgga knockout or overexpressing seedlings grown in control conditions or after exposure to salt stress . the results of microarray analysis were validated using quantitative pcr . in general an overall perturbation of the transcriptome was observed both in control and stress treatments with large numbers of genes showing a variation in gene _PROTEIN_ in rgga and _PROTEIN_ rgga . an analysis using the singular enrichment analysis tool of agrigo was performed to identify significantly enriched gene ontology _METHOD_ in each treatment/genotype . in both mutant and overexpressing plants in control and stress conditions several go _METHOD_ were significantly enriched either in down and up regulated genes with the _METHOD_ response to stimulus regulation of cellular process and biological regulation having among the lowest false discovery rate values in most of the conditions considered . genes showing opposite behaviors in the mutant and overexpressing lines in _METHOD_ of up or down regulation as compared with col are summarized for controls and salt stress conditions . as expected atrgga was present in both conditions as down regulated in the knockout plants and up regulated in overexpressing plants . in control conditions dehydration responsive element binding _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ key transcription _PROTEIN_ involved in drought stress responses and several heat shock proteins including _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ were down regulated in rgga and had an opposite behavior in _PROTEIN_ rgga . after stress treatment several genes coding for saur like auxin responsive proteins were up regulated in rgga and down regulated in _PROTEIN_ rgga . among the genes down regulated in rgga and up regulated in _PROTEIN_ rgga we identified the reactive oxygen species scavengers _PROTEIN_ a _LOCATION_ member of the l ascorbate peroxidase gene family and _PROTEIN_ together with transcription _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ the latter previously shown to be involved in defense responses and the former recently shown to be involved in the modulation of _PROTEIN_ acid transcript abundance and aba sensitivity at the seed and early seedling stages . the locus corresponding to atrgga is highlighted in boldface . the locus corresponding to atrgga is highlighted in boldface .
potato cell cultures were generated _PROTEIN_ and gradually or abruptly exposed to peg as described previously . arabidopsis cells _LOCATION_ were _PROTEIN_ as described in continuous dark conditions . for gene _PROTEIN_ analyses cells were treated for h with nacl aba or peg . cell viability was assessed by adding fluorescein diacetate to of cell culture . viability was _PROTEIN_ as the percentage of viable cells in stress versus control conditions . arabidopsis plants of the col ecotype were used throughout this study . a knockout line for atrgga was obtained from the nottingham arabidopsis stock centre and homozygous plants were selected by pcr . primers were selected using the t dna _PROTEIN_ primer design tool . transgenic plants overexpressing _PROTEIN_ tagged rgga in the col background were generated by floral dip transformation . for gene _PROTEIN_ studies d old seedlings grown on solid gm medium were transferred to plates containing nacl and incubated for h or incubated for d on plates containing peg nacl or aba . for germination analyses seeds were sown in the presence of nacl . germination was scored in _METHOD_ of fully expanded cotyledons after d of incubation . survival tests were carried out using d old seedlings germinated on gm plates and transferred to nacl or aba containing medium . survival was scored daily in _METHOD_ of absence of necrotic or bleached leaves . to score root growth in the presence of aba d old seedlings grown on gm medium and showing equal primary root length were transferred to gm medium or medium with aba . photographs were taken and root length was scored d after transfer . stress treatments in soil were performed on week old plants by water withdrawal for d or by watering with mm nacl every other day for d. in each irrigation event the volume of the salt solution was of the pot volume . for microarray gene _PROTEIN_ analyses d old seedlings grown on gm plates were transferred to gm or gm mm nacl plates for h prior to rna extraction . gateway technology was used to obtain binary vectors for promoter and protein localization studies as well as to produce transgenic overexpressing plants . the putative promoter of atrgga _PROTEIN_ was amplified from genomic dna extracted from col plant rgga coding sequence amplified from clone provided by the arabidopsis information resource . pcr amplifications were carried out using pfu dna polymerase . primers used are listed in supplemental table . the promoter and coding sequences were cloned into using _PROTEIN_ clonase to obtain atrggapromoter and atrgga entry vectors . lr clonase was used for recombination with destination vectors which were for promoter studies and for protein localization studies and to produce _PROTEIN_ tagged overexpressing plants . to produce his tagged atrgga in escherichia coli the coding sequence was amplified and cloned between sali and noti restriction sites of vector . all constructs were sequenced to rule out the presence of mutations introduced by pcr . the his tagged atrgga from constructs was overexpressed following transformation in e. coli . cells were recovered and lysed by mg lysozyme after growth at on luria bertani medium supplemented with kanamycin . induction was carried out by adding mm isopropyl d thiogalactopyranoside to a culture at an optical density measured at nm of and then incubating the culture at for h. protein constructs were purified by nickel affinity chromatography as described by the manufacturer . the purified protein was analyzed by _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ as described by citation . qpcr gene _PROTEIN_ analyses used of dnasei treated rna converted to complementary dna utilizing superscript ii reverse transcriptase and oligo following the manufacturer s instructions . the obtained complementary dna was diluted and was used for each qrt pcr carried out with platinum sybr green qpcr supermix and elongation _PROTEIN_ as an endogenous control . primers used are listed in supplemental table . qrt pcr was performed with abi ht _METHOD_ . at least nine technical replicates per gene per biological replicate were performed . three biological replicates per genotype were tested and data were analyzed using rq manager followed by analysis with data assist _METHOD_ to group together the different replicates and biological replicates and perform statistical analysis . for microarray gene _PROTEIN_ studies rna extracted using trizol was quantified and quality checked using the nanodrop nd spectrophotometer and the bioanalyzer respectively . samples with the rna integrity number of and above were chosen for further analysis . microarray analysis was performed using the arabidopsis gene _PROTEIN_ microarray design id containing arabidopsis gene probes and agilent control probes . total rna was used to prepare cyanine labeled probe with the help of the low rna input linear amplification/labeling kit . the dye incorporation and the copy rna yield were measured using the nanodrop nd spectrophotometer . labeled copy rna probes were fragmented using fragmentation buffer and hybridized to the arabidopsis arrays in the presence of the gene _PROTEIN_ hybridization buffer hi rpm and blocking agent for h at with a rpm rotation speed in a hybridization oven . after the h incubation the arrays were washed using low stringency wash buffer at room temperature for min followed by a high stringency wash using wash buffer at . the arrays were air dried and scanned using the high resolution array scanner with the appropriate settings for the one color gene _PROTEIN_ arrays . the signal intensities were extracted from the scanned images with the aid of feature extraction software and subjected to background subtraction and spatial detrending . the outliers and the abnormal features were flagged and the data were normalized using intraarray percentile shift normalization and median based interarray normalization . genespring gx was used to calculate the intensity ratios and fold changes . all the genes with p values below and fold change above were chosen for go enrichment analysis which was carried out by sequentia italia as described below . common sets of differentially _PROTEIN_ genes were identified between the different groups by using venny . the identification of enriched go functional categories was performed by using the singular enrichment analysis tool of agrigo . arabidopsis was selected as a supported species and the suggested background was used . a hypergeometric test was used as a statistical method to identify enriched categories while the other parameters were left as default . when the number of enriched categories was too much for easy understanding the software _PROTEIN_ was used to obtain reduced lists . the dimension of the output list was set to small and the database of arabidopsis go _METHOD_ was used . to detect the _PROTEIN_ rgga fusion protein in overexpressing lines immunoblotting was performed using _PROTEIN_ antibody . total proteins were extracted from mg of tissue using extraction buffer and protease inhibitor cocktail . after clarification protein concentration was estimated using the bradford reagent assay and of total protein was used for _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ followed by transfer on nitrocellulose _LOCATION_ . a dilution of _PROTEIN_ antibody was used for immunoblotting following the manufacturer s instructions . total rna extracted from control and salt stress treated plants was labeled with biotin using the rna end biotinylation kit following the manufacturer s instructions . one microliter of a dilution of the labeled rna was used for each _METHOD_ reaction . similar amounts of labeled rna were also used for poly and poly rna which were prepared using the mrna isolation kit . rna was incubated with of his tagged atrgga or his tagged _PROTEIN_ . when present unlabeled rna was used as a competitor at ng . the rna _METHOD_ was carried out with the lightshift chemiluminescent rna _METHOD_ kit . the binding reaction was analyzed by gel electrophoresis on a native polyacrylamide gel in tris borate/edta buffer and transferred to a nylon _LOCATION_ . pro extraction from arabidopsis plants grown in soil and subjected to drought stress was carried out as described by citation . briefly mg of leaves was ground in liquid nitrogen and resuspended in an aqueous solution containing sulfosalicylic acid . suspension was clarified with ederol round filters . one milliliter of filtered suspension was diluted with ml of glacial acetic acid and ml of a ninhydrin solution . after incubation at for h samples were read at an optical density measured at nm . three biological replicates were analyzed for each genotype and each sample was replicated at least three times . confocal imaging was carried out with the leica tcs system . propidium iodide staining was carried out as described previously . staining times were as follows min to counterstain cell walls only and at least h to achieve minimal _LOCATION_ staining . the following supplemental materials are available . supplemental figure . alignment of deduced rgga protein sequences of potato and arabidopsis . supplemental figure . cell viability measurements of arabidopsis cells . supplemental figure . atrgga gene _PROTEIN_ in arabidopsis tissues and developmental stages . supplemental figure . phenotypes of arabidopsis plants with modified _PROTEIN_ of atrgga . supplemental figure . enriched go categories of differentially _PROTEIN_ genes in _PROTEIN_ rgga plants . supplemental figure . enriched go categories of differentially _PROTEIN_ genes in rgga plants . supplemental table . primers used in this study . supplemental table . qpcr validation of microarray results . supplemental table . genes repressed in the rgga mutant in salt stress conditions . supplemental table . genes induced in the rgga mutant in salt stress conditions . supplemental table . genes induced in the rgga mutant in control conditions . supplemental table . genes repressed in the rgga mutant in control conditions . supplemental table . genes induced in plants overexpressing rgga in salt stress conditions . supplemental table . genes repressed in plants overexpressing rgga in salt stress conditions . supplemental table . genes induced in plants overexpressing rgga in control conditions . supplemental table . genes repressed in plants overexpressing rgga in control conditions .
