despite the _PROTEIN_ that a variety of _LOCATION_ encoded rna binding proteins _PROTEIN_ are targeted to the chloroplast and play essential roles during post transcriptional rna metabolism in the chloroplast the physiological roles of the majority of chloroplast targeted _PROTEIN_ remain elusive . here we investigated the functional role of a _LOCATION_ encoded domain containing _PROTEIN_ designated sdp in the growth and development of arabidopsis thaliana . confocal analysis of the sdp green _METHOD_ protein revealed that sdp was localized to the chloroplast . the loss of function sdp mutant displayed retarded seed germination and pale green phenotypes and grew smaller than the wild type plants . chlorophyll a content and photosynthetic activity of the sdp mutant were much lower than those of wild type plants and the structures of the chloroplast and the prolamellar body were abnormal in the sdp mutant . the processing of rrnas in the chloroplast was defective in the sdp mutant and sdp was able to bind chloroplast and rrnas . notably sdp possesses rna chaperone activity . transcript levels of the _LOCATION_ genes involved in chlorophyll biosynthesis were altered in the sdp mutant . collectively these results suggest that chloroplast targeted sdp harboring rna chaperone activity affects rrna processing chloroplast biogenesis and photosynthetic activity which is crucial for normal growth of arabidopsis .
the sdp protein contained one domain at the c terminal region and a web based program predicted a transit peptide at the n terminus of the sdp protein . the arabidopsis genome harbored a single gene encoding the sdp protein . analysis of amino acid sequences of sdp related proteins from diverse plant species showed that arabidopsis sdp shared approximately amino acid sequence similarity to the related proteins from different plant species . to investigate the sdp _PROTEIN_ pattern in arabidopsis the sdp promoter was fused in front of the gus gene the prosdp gus construct was introduced into arabidopsis and gus _PROTEIN_ was examined in the transgenic plants . the results showed that strong gus signals were detected in the root young leaf and mature leaf but that weak gus signals were detected in the flower and at the ends of the silique . to determine the subcellular localization of the sdp protein the sdp green _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ fusion protein was _PROTEIN_ in arabidopsis and the presence of _METHOD_ signals was detected via confocal microscopy . _METHOD_ signals were detected only in the chloroplast indicating that the _LOCATION_ encoded sdp proteins were localized to chloroplasts . to determine the functional role of sdp in plant growth and development a loss of function sdp mutant in which t dna is inserted at the c terminal region was obtained from the arabidopsis biological resources center and lack of sdp _PROTEIN_ in the mutant was confirmed by rt pcr analysis . the germination of sdp mutant seeds was marginally retarded compared with that of wild type seeds and root growth of the sdp mutant was slightly inhibited compared with that of wild type plants . when the plants were grown under normal conditions it was evident that the sdp mutant had pale green leaves and that the height of the sdp mutant at maturity was significantly shorter than that of wild type plants . no differences were detected in the size and shape of seeds or the size of siliques between the mutant and wild type plants but total seed weight per sdp mutant plant was significantly lower than that of the wild type plant . to further confirm that the sdp mutant phenotypes resulted from sdp gene knock out several complementation lines in which the sdp gene is _PROTEIN_ under the control of the promoter in the sdp mutant background were generated and their phenotypes were analyzed . _PROTEIN_ of sdp in the complementation lines was verified by rt pcr analysis . the results showed that seed germination root growth and seedling growth of the complementation lines recovered to those of wild type plants . in addition transgenic arabidopsis plants that overexpressed sdp under the control of the promoter were generated and their phenotypes were analyzed . the results showed that seed germination and growth of the sdp overexpressing transgenic plants were indistinguishable from those of wild type plants . taken together these results indicate that sdp is crucial for the normal growth of arabidopsis . because the sdp mutant showed pale green and growth retarded phenotypes we investigated whether sdp affects chlorophyll biosynthesis photosynthetic activity and chloroplast biogenesis . when the growth defect in the sdp mutant was clearly visible the chlorophyll content and photosynthetic activity of the plants were measured . the results showed that the level of chlorophyll a was much lower in the sdp mutant than in the wild type . photosynthetic activity as indicated by the maximum quantum yield of photosytem ii values was significantly different in that the wild type plants _PROTEIN_ approximately fv/fm value whereas the sdp mutant had only fv/fm value . the chlorophyll content and photosynthetic activities of the complementation lines recovered to those of wild type plants . these results indicate that sdp affects chlorophyll a accumulation and photosynthetic activity . to further confirm that sdp plays an important role in photosynthesis the growth of the sdp mutant was observed on _METHOD_ medium with and without sucrose . the wild type plants had true green leaves but the sdp mutant did not develop true green leaves on _METHOD_ medium without sucrose . when the yellowish sdp mutant seedlings grown on _METHOD_ medium without sucrose were transferred to _METHOD_ medium supplemented with sucrose the sdp mutant developed true green leaves whereas the sdp mutant grown on _METHOD_ medium without sucrose did not develop true leaves . notably structures of the chloroplast and prolamella body in the sdp mutant were abnormal in that the sdp mutants had fewer stacked _LOCATION_ and exhibited a disturbed _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ organization and a reduced size of prolamella body whereas the complementation lines _PROTEIN_ normal chloroplast and prolamella body structures . collectively these results demonstrate that sdp affects chlorophyll accumulation photosynthetic activity and chloroplast biogenesis . given that the sdp mutant accumulates less chlorophyll a than that of the wild type plant it would be interesting to determine how chlorophyll a content _PROTEIN_ in the sdp mutant . therefore we investigated whether the _PROTEIN_ of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis related genes was altered in the sdp mutant compared with the wild type plant . transcript levels of genes involved in tetrapyrrole biosynthesis were determined by real time rt pcr analysis . the results showed that transcript levels of _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ increased noticeably in the sdp mutant compared with that in the wild type and complementation lines . in contrast transcript levels of _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ markedly in the sdp mutant . these results demonstrate that chloroplast localized sdp affects the transcript levels of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis related genes in the _LOCATION_ . western blot analysis revealed that the level of _PROTEIN_ protein _PROTEIN_ in the sdp mutant compared with that in the wild type and complementation lines whereas the levels of _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ proteins used as a control were not altered in the sdp mutant compared with that in the wild type and complementation lines . these results demonstrate that chloroplast localized sdp affects possibly indirectly the synthesis of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis related proteins in the _LOCATION_ . to determine whether sdp malfunction affects the transcript levels of chloroplast genes as well as the tetrapyrrole biosynthesis related genes in the _LOCATION_ the levels of mrnas in the chloroplast were compared in week old wild type and sdp mutant via affymetrix microarray analysis . as the affymetrix array does not contain trna genes the transcript levels of trnas were determined by quantitative real time rt pcr analysis . to confirm the reliability of the microarray results four upregulated genes and four constant genes in microarray data were selected and their transcript levels were analyzed by real time rt pcr . the results showed that the _PROTEIN_ patterns of the genes analyzed by real time rt pcr are consistent with the microarray data . microarray analysis revealed that the transcript levels of most chloroplast mrnas were similar between the wild type and the sdp mutant whereas the transcript levels of several genes including _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ encoding ribosomal protein and _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ encoding rna polymerase subunits and _PROTEIN_ encoding psii low molecular weight protein increased up to twofold in the sdp mutant . by contrast the transcript levels of all chloroplast trnas significantly increased in the sdp mutant compared with those in the wild type plant . as it is evident that sdp plays an important role in plant growth by affecting chlorophyll biosynthesis and photosynthetic activity the next important question was to understand how sdp exerts it role in these cellular processes . as a chloroplast targeted ribosomal protein it is likely that sdp is involved in chloroplast rna metabolism including the processing of rrnas . we therefore investigated whether sdp is involved in the processing of chloroplast rrnas . total rnas extracted from the wild type sdp mutant and complementation lines were separated on an agarose gel and northern blot analyses were conducted to detect the processed products of and rrnas . the chloroplast rrnas are initially transcribed as a large polycistronic precursor rna and the primary precursor is then digested into the precursors of and rrnas and intermediate after which the kb intermediate is cleaved into the kb rrna and kb rrna . the results showed that processing of the and rrnas was markedly impaired in the sdp mutant and processing of the and rrnas was marginally inhibited in the sdp mutant . notably the kb intermediate was highly accumulated in the sdp mutant . the impaired processing of and rrnas was very evident in northern blot analysis using the probe corresponding to the sequence between and rrnas . abnormal processing patterns of all rrnas observed in the sdp mutant recovered to normal in the complementation lines . to further confirm impaired rrna processing in the sdp mutant polysomal loading of chloroplast rrnas was investigated . the leaf extracts of the wild type sdp mutant and complementation line were fractionated through sucrose density gradients and total rna extracted from sucrose density gradient fractions was subjected to rna gel blot analysis . the results showed that the wild type primarily contained mature rrnas in the polysome fractions whereas the sdp mutant contained high levels of precursor rrnas with substantially reduced levels of mature rrnas . abnormal polysome loading patterns observed in the sdp mutant recovered to normal in the complementation lines . collectively these results indicate that sdp is involved in chloroplast rrna processing . to determine whether sdp affects rrna processing by directly interacting with rrnas the binding ability of sdp to rrnas was examined . the recombinant thioredoxin sdp fusion proteins were _PROTEIN_ and purified in e. coli the rrna genes were cloned into the pgem t easy vector and the rnas were synthesized in vitro using rna polymerase . when the trx sdp fusion proteins were mixed with the radio labeled rrna migration of rrna was significantly retarded but this retardation was abolished after adding excess unlabeled cold rrna . similarly the recombinant trx sdp fusion proteins bound to the and rrnas . interestingly binding between sdp and rrna was inhibited after adding pet derived synthetic rna that is not related to rrna and has no known function . these results indicate that the sdp protein binds to all chloroplast rrnas and suggests that the binding of sdp to rnas is sequence non specific . because the processing of chloroplast rrnas was impaired in the sdp mutant we next investigated whether the synthesis of chloroplast proteins is altered in the sdp mutant . total proteins were extracted from the wild type sdp mutant and complementation lines and the levels of several proteins including _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ were analyzed via western blot analysis using an antibody specific to each protein . the results showed that the levels of _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ were noticeably _PROTEIN_ in the sdp mutant compared with those in wild type plants and complementation lines . these results demonstrate that sdp affects rrna processing and in turn influences protein biosynthesis in chloroplasts . because sdp harbors an rna binding domain and binds to diverse rna substrates it is likely that sdp plays a role as an rna chaperone that binds to diverse rna substrates with low sequence specificity and aids the rna folding process in cells . to determine whether sdp possesses rna chaperone activity several well established rna chaperone assays were carried out as described previously . first the complementation ability of sdp in rna chaperone deficient cold sensitive e. coli mutant cells was analyzed . cells harboring sdp the piniii vector or cspa grew well at with no noticeable differences however when the cells were incubated at the sdp _PROTEIN_ cells grew well whereas the control cells harboring only the piniii vector did not grow at a low temperature . _PROTEIN_ of cspa the bacterial rna chaperone used as a positive control made the e. coli cell grow well at a low temperature . second to further determine the rna chaperone activity of sdp the _LOCATION_ acid melting activity of sdp was evaluated by measuring _METHOD_ arising from the melting of the partially double stranded dna molecules . adding sdp or cspa to the reaction mixture produced strong _METHOD_ suggesting that sdp and cspa have _LOCATION_ acid melting activity . third because rna chaperones generally bind to diverse rna substrates with low sequence specificity the binding ability of sdp to an rna substrate totally unrelated to rrnas was evaluated . the rna substrate used in this assay was a synthetic rna derived from the vector and commonly used as an rna substrate for the sequence non specific rna binding assay . when the trx sdp fusion proteins were mixed with the derived rnas migration of the rna was significantly retarded whereas adding trx did not affect the migration of the rna molecules showing that sdp can bind rna sequences non specifically . taken together these results indicate that sdp has rna chaperone activity .
arabidopsis thaliana columbia ecotype the knock out mutant complementation lines and sdp overexpressing transgenic plants were grown at under long day conditions in soil or half strength murashige and skoog _METHOD_ medium containing sucrose . arabidopsis sdp mutant seeds were obtained from the arabidopsis biological research center . complementation lines and overexpressing transgenic plants were generated using the vector that _PROTEIN_ the full length sdp gene under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus promoter . arabidopsis transformation was carried out by the vacuum infiltration method using agrobacterium tumefaciens . the or homozygous lines were selected and used for phenotype analysis . the sdp _METHOD_ fusion protein was _PROTEIN_ in arabidopsis under the control of the cassava mosaic virus promoter . cellular _PROTEIN_ of the sdp _METHOD_ protein was observed in the roots and leaves of plants using a zeiss _PROTEIN_ laser scanning confocal microscope with excitation and emission wavelengths of and nm respectively . total rna was extracted from frozen tissue samples using the plant rneasy extraction kit . rna was reverse transcribed and amplified using a one step rt pcr kit with the gene specific primers listed in table . real time quantification of rnas was carried out in a rotor gene q real time thermal cycling system using a quantitect sybr green rt pcr kit with the gene specific primers listed in table . for northern blot analysis total rna extracted from week old plants was size fractionated on a agarose or formaldehyde gel blotted to a hybond n nylon _LOCATION_ and then cross linked under uv . hybridization with labeled probes was performed in _PROTEIN_ ssc denhardt 's solution salmon sperm dna and formamide at overnight . the genes encoding chloroplast rrnas were cloned into the pgem t easy vector and the hybridization probes were amplified by pcr . the probes were labeled with dctp using the random primer dna labeling kit according to the manufacturer 's instructions . the probes contained rrna sequences of the following region and _PROTEIN_ . polysomal loading analysis of chloroplast rrnas was performed essentially as described previously . briefly leaf extracts of the wild type sdp mutant and complementation lines were fractionated through sucrose density gradients . total rna was extracted from sucrose density gradient fractions and subjected to rna gel blot analysis . affymetrix arabidopsis _PROTEIN_ arrays containing chloroplast genes were used for the analysis of chloroplast transcripts in week old wild type and sdp mutant . three biological replicates were used for microarray hybridization . the cdna was labeled with biotin and the slides were scanned using a scanner . hybridization signal intensities were determined using nimblescan software . to determine whether genes were differentially _PROTEIN_ between the two groups a paired student 's t test was performed on the _PROTEIN_ values for three replicates . differences in the _PROTEIN_ level of selected genes were further verified by real time rt pcr analysis . the leaves of the wild type sdp mutant and complementation lines were ground with a mortar in liquid nitrogen and total proteins were extracted by adding homogenization buffer _METHOD_ . approximately of extracted proteins was separated on _PROTEIN_ polyacrylamide gels and transferred to polyvinylidene difluoride _LOCATION_ . the proteins on the _LOCATION_ were stained with ponceau s staining solution . western blotting was performed according to the manufacturer 's instructions using a polyclonal rabbit antibody specific to each protein . after binding to horseradish peroxidase conjugated goat anti rabbit igg antibody the signals were detected with an enhanced chemiluminescence kit and an _PROTEIN_ phosphorimager . the full length cdna encoding sdp was cloned into the ncoi/sali site of the vector to generate recombinant sdp proteins harboring n terminal thioredoxin and c terminal his tag . the trx sdp fusion proteins were _PROTEIN_ in e. coli rosetta strain and purified on an ni fast flow affinity column with the elution buffer containing mm imidazole . to prepare rna substrates for the rna binding assay the cdnas encoding each chloroplast rrna were cloned into the pgem t easy vector and the utp labeled rnas were synthesized in vitro using rna polymerase . the rna substrates were incubated with the purified trx or trx sdp fusion protein in binding buffer on ice for min . the reacted mixtures were loaded on native acrylamide gel and the binding products were detected using a _PROTEIN_ phosphorimager . for the complementation assay in e. coli mutant cell which lacks four cold shock proteins and is highly sensitive to cold temperatures the piniii vector _PROTEIN_ sdp were constructed essentially as described previously . the mutant cells harboring piniii sdp piniii cspa or piniii were grown in lb medium containing ampicillin and kanamycin and the serially diluted cultures of cells were spotted on lb medium and incubated at or . for the in vitro dna melting assay the partially double stranded dna molecules labeled with a fluorophore and quencher were synthesized as described previously . the _METHOD_ emitted from the reaction between the recombinant proteins and the dna molecules was measured using a spectra max gemini xs spectrofluorometer with excitation and emission wavelengths of and nm respectively .
