plant cell walls contain a large proportion of polysaccharides _METHOD_ and proteins that play major roles in cw plasticity during development and in response to environmental cues . here we present cw proteomics data of arabidopsis thaliana roots . plants were cultivated in hydroponic conditions . cw protein extracts were prepared and analyzed in two different ways in order to enlarge the coverage of the root cw proteome proteins were analyzed either directly or following an affinity chromatography on a combinatorial peptide ligand library to reduce the concentration dynamic range . proteins were identified by _METHOD_ and bioinformatics . altogether proteins having predicted signal peptides have been identified . cpll permitted to identify cwps never described before thus enlarging the coverage of the root cw proteome . the number of oxidoreductases is particularly high and includes a large collection of class iii peroxidases . for the first time hydroxyproline residues were localized at conserved positions in ciii prx amino acid sequences .
cws of roots grown in hydroponic conditions have been purified . proteins have been extracted with two different buffers containing either m or licl m. both protein extracts have been combined . the experiment has been repeated thrice . these proteins have been analyzed in two different ways the three biological repeats have been directly analyzed by _METHOD_ or the proteins of the three biological repeats have been pooled and separated using the cpll technology to _PROTEIN_ the dynamic range of concentration within the sample . all the protein samples have been separated by using about of proteins per lane to check the quality of the proteins . the comparison of the profiles of proteins extracted from the three batches of roots showed no protein degradation and a good reproducibility of the experiment . the three protein samples exhibited the same protein bands after staining with _METHOD_ blue . range of molecular _METHOD_ was from to kda as usually observed for cwp extracts citation citation . these three protein extracts were combined to reach a total amount of mg of proteins and obtain enough material to load on the column in saturating conditions . after loading the column was washed in order to remove the most abundant proteins that were supposed to saturate their ligands present on the beads _PROTEIN_ . the proteins retained by the column were eluted . as expected the same pattern was observed in lane u and in lanes . these bands corresponded to the most abundant proteins of the extract . the pattern of lane _PROTEIN_ was the same showing that a great part of the most abundant proteins of the extract has not been retained by the beads . finally lane e showing the proteins eluted from the column displayed a different pattern with bands of higher intensity than in lane u and the disappearance of some of the major protein bands of lane u in accordance with an equalization of the concentrations of proteins in our sample . the three untreated protein extracts and the cpll extract were separated into three fractions by a short run . these samples were analyzed by _METHOD_ and proteins were identified by bioinformatics . altogether and proteins have been identified in the untreated protein extract and in the cpll samples respectively . as expected the number of proteins identified in the cpll sample was much higher than that obtained in the untreated protein extract . altogether proteins were identified including proteins identified with the two strategies and proteins only identified with the cpll strategy . the average number of peptides per identified protein was the same using both strategies . however the reduction of the concentration dynamic range in the cpll sample was illustrated by the _PROTEIN_ of the percentage of proteins identified with only two specific peptides the increase of the percentage of proteins identified with more than ten specific peptides and the _PROTEIN_ of the percentage of proteins identified with more than specific peptides . a bioinformatic analysis of the identified proteins was performed using the protanndb tool citation in order to predict their subcellular localization . in the untreated protein extracts the proportion of proteins predicted to be secreted was of whereas it was of only in the cpll sample . the higher proportion of identified proteins predicted to be intracellular in this sample could be related to the _PROTEIN_ that such proteins are usually present in minor amounts in protein extracts from purified cws . thus the cpll technology allowed their identification with lower numbers of specific peptides as shown in supporting information fig . and nearly of the proteins identified with two to five specific peptides were predicted to be intracellular . altogether and proteins predicted to be secreted were identified by the two methods without and with cpll chromatography respectively . they corresponded to different proteins proteins were identified with both methods proteins only in the untreated protein extract and only in the cpll sample . among the proteins only identified in the untreated extract were identified with less than five specific peptides suggesting that they were not abundant proteins . in the following only the proteins predicted to be secreted will be called cwps . the others will be considered as intracellular contaminants in the absence of experimental evidence of their presence in cws . among these proteins were found in a previous root cw proteome of seedlings citation . on the contrary proteins previously identified were not present in this new proteome . all the _METHOD_ experimental data concerning cwps have been made available online in the wallprotdb database which is dedicated to plant cw proteomics . it contains only proteins identified in cw extracts in apoplast or in culture medium and having a predicted signal peptide citation . the functional annotation of proteins was done using the protanndb tool citation as well as literature data . using functional domains as defined in the prosite citation pfam citation and interproscan citation databases proteins were distributed in nine functional classes proteins acting on polysaccharides oxidoreductases proteases proteins possibly related to lipid metabolism proteins with interaction domains proteins possibly involved in signaling structural proteins miscellaneous proteins and proteins of unknown function . proteins acting on polysaccharides oxidoreductases proteases and miscellaneous proteins represented the major classes of root cwps . proteins with interaction domains and proteins of unknown function were less represented . in the oxidoreductase functional class ciii prxs represented more than half of the identified proteins and of the ciii prxs predicted in the a. thaliana genome . they are also among the most abundant proteins of the root proteome with eight of them among those identified with more than specific peptides . among other oxidoreductases there were multicopper oxidases _PROTEIN_ berberine bridge oxidoreductases blue copper binding proteins and laccases . among the proteins acting on polysaccharides there were ghs of the families _PROTEIN_ esterases of the and families polysaccharide lyases and expansins . among proteins related to lipid metabolism there were glyaspserleu lipases . pme inhibitors were well represented among proteins with interaction domains . an unusually high number of receptor kinases could be identified with peptides belonging to their _LOCATION_ domain . these proteins were not _LOCATION_ proteins but rather transmembrane domain proteins . they have been conserved in this cw proteome because their identification might be of interest for studying signaling pathways involving cw components . the miscellaneous category comprises many proteins of interest for the specific metabolism of roots defense proteins such as thaumatins ribonucleases and proteins proteins possibly involved in phosphate metabolism such as proteins acid phosphatases and purple acid phosphatases _PROTEIN_ . seven dirigent proteins have also been identified . finally a low proportion of proteins of unknown function have been identified among which _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and math domain proteins . among the cwps identified in this study were already identified in one of the a. thaliana cw proteome . it means that the root cw proteome brought new cwps thus increasing the size of the known cw proteome of a. thaliana to cwps . the root cw proteome was then compared to previously studied a. thaliana cw proteomes and with brassica oleracea xylem sap proteome . it had the highest number of common proteins with the cw proteome of etiolated hypocotyls . it shared proteins with the cell suspension cultures proteomes and with the b. oleracea xylem sap proteome . sixteen cwps are common to all four materials . the numbers of proteins shared with the leaf and the stem cw proteomes were lower . finally the a. thaliana root cw proteome shared some features with the known o. sativa root cw proteome citation . among cwps five were ciii prxs and three were . we have observed the occurrence of hyp residues in peptides belonging to a few protein families such as ciii prxs germins and pmes . this type of _PROTEIN_ has not yet been described for such proteins . however we have focused our attention on ciii prxs because of their high abundance in the root proteome resulting in a high amount of _METHOD_ data . following the identification of _METHOD_ increment of da corresponding to an oxidation on different tryptic peptides of several ciii prxs _METHOD_ fragmentation permitted to confirm that they were located onto pro residues giving rise to hyp . it should be noted that only the cases in which b and/or y fragments permitted to locate unambiguously the observed oxidation onto pro residues were retained . manual check of _METHOD_ data has led to the elimination of a few cases in which it was not possible to discriminate between pro and met oxidation . hyp residues were located at several conserved positions defining specific motifs for pro hydroxylation . in particular three positions conserved between of the a. thaliana ciii prx amino acid sequences citation were affected by this _PROTEIN_ and . additional hyp have been observed in less conserved sequences . another puzzling feature was that a variable percentage of hyp residues has been found at each of the observed positions . besides some pro residues have never been found to be hydroxylated . similar results were obtained with the cpll extract . since equalization of the sample may have modified the proportion of the different protein _METHOD_ including those carrying hyp residues the _METHOD_ data have not been analyzed in detail . since the observation of hyp residues in ciii prx sequences was not previously described we wanted to localize the corresponding pro residues on the available of ciii prxs . four such structures have been determined by crystallography for native ciii prxs bearing i.e . from peanut citation royal palm tree citation banyan tree citation and raphanus sativus . we have chosen that of r. sativus because this plant is a brassicaceae like a. thaliana . pro/hyp residues of motifs and were located at the surface of the protein on the opposite side of the active site . this position suggested a possible occupancy by . on the contrary pro/hyp residues of motif were located within the substrate binding site at the edge of the groove where the heme is bound citation . the other observed hyp residues in less conserved motifs were located at the surface of the r. sativus ciii prx . it should also be noted that the corresponding pro residues were located at similar position on the of the available a. thaliana prxs which are nonglycosylated recombinant proteins .
seeds of a. thaliana were sterilized and sowed in petri dishes containing _METHOD_ medium supplemented with w/v sucrose and w/v agar . they were _PROTEIN_ in the dark at during h to favor homogeneous germination . they were put for days in a growth chamber with the following day/night conditions and humidity . then the plantlets were transferred to araponics hydroponics _METHOD_ . nutritive solutions have been prepared using the flora series floragro floramicro florabloom . one milliliter floramicro ml floragro and ml florabloom have been diluted in l of water . the plants were put in the following day/night conditions h h and humidity . roots were collected after days of culture and kept frozen at . three biological repeats corresponding to three independent experiments each performed with the roots of about plants were done . typically g of roots were used for each sample . cws were prepared as previously described citation . briefly plant material was ground in a blender in ml of mm acetate buffer ph m sucrose of protease inhibitor cocktail and g of polyclar . cw fragments were recovered as pellets after three successive centrifugations at g for min in ml of acetate buffer containing and m sucrose respectively . they were ground in liquid nitrogen prior to lyophilization . about g of lyophilized cws was obtained from g of roots . proteins were extracted from cws with mm acetate buffer ph containing m or licl m and of lyophilized cws of protease inhibitor cocktail citation . and licl protein extracts were combined desalted on columns and lyophilized . protein quantification was performed with the cooassay protein assay kit according to a modified bradford method citation . about mg of proteins per gram of lyophilized cws was extracted . to check the quality of the extract proteins were separated by and stained with _METHOD_ blue citation . the samples resulting from the three biological repeats have been pooled to obtain enough material for affinity cpll chromatography as described citation . proteins have been separated using the protein enrichment kit . beads have been rehydrated in vol of beads of ethanol under shaking during min . they were equilibrated with vol of beads of _PROTEIN_ for min and then twice with vol of beads of _PROTEIN_ . after centrifugation vol of beads of _PROTEIN_ has been added to get a suspension of beads ready for use . about mg of root proteins extracted from cws in of _PROTEIN_ was put in contact with of beads corresponding to a saturation of the resin . incubation was performed for h at under gentle shaking . nonretained proteins were eliminated by a centrifugation at g for min at . the beads were washed by incubating for min thrice with _PROTEIN_ before elution for min at with of laemmli buffer _PROTEIN_ citation . prior to _METHOD_ analysis of proteins were separated by a . each sample was cut into three pieces of about mm _PROTEIN_ . the gel pieces were collected in microplates and digestion was performed with the progest protein digestion station system . gel pieces were washed twice by successive separate baths of acetic acid ethanol and acn followed by two successive separate baths of mm ammonium bicarbonate and acn . proteins were reduced for min with mm dithiothreitol mm ammonium bicarbonate at and alkylated in the dark with mm iodoacetamide mm ammonium bicarbonate for min at room temperature . the gel pieces were washed by successive separate baths of m ammonium bicarbonate and acn . digestion was subsequently performed for h at with ng of modified trypsin dissolved in methanol mm ammonium bicarbonate . the peptides were extracted successively with tfa and acn and then with acn . peptide extracts were dried in a vacuum centrifuge and suspended in of tfa formic acid and acn . tryptic digestion was performed as described citation . then the samples were put in of buffer . online lc was performed on a nanolc ultra system . a sample was loaded at on a precolumn cartridge and desalted with formic acid in water . after min the precolumn cartridge was connected to the separating column . buffers were formic acid in water and formic acid in acn . peptide separation was achieved using a linear gradient from to b for min at nl/min . including the regeneration step at b and the equilibration step at a one run took min . eluted peptides were analyzed online with a _METHOD_ spectrometer using a nanoelectrospray interface . peptide ions were analyzed using xcalibur with the following acquisition steps full _METHOD_ scan _PROTEIN_ and _METHOD_ . step was repeated for the eight major ions detected in step . dynamic exclusion was set to s. xcalibur raw data files were transformed to mzxml open source format using proteowizard software version . the x ! tandem software was used for protein identification citation and the x ! tandem pipeline for _METHOD_ data processing . all the parameters used for peptide and protein identification are listed in supporting information tables and . trypsin digestion was declared with one possible miscleavage . _PROTEIN_ of cys residues was set to fixed modification . oxidation of met or pro residues acetylation deamidation of glu residues and loss of on glu residues were set to possible modifications . trypsin digestion was declared with one possible miscleavage . precursor _METHOD_ precision was set to ppm and fragment _METHOD_ tolerance was set to da . the following filters were used log < for proteins and < for peptides . _PROTEIN_ was estimated at for peptides and for proteins . only proteins identified with at least two different specific peptides in the same sample and found in at least two biological repeats were validated except in the case of the cpll extract where the three biological repeats have been combined prior to _METHOD_ analysis . in the case of peptides carrying hyp residues only the data of the untreated protein extracts have been taken into account . all the corresponding _METHOD_ fragmentation spectra have been manually checked . identified proteins were analyzed de novo with different bioinformatics software to predict their subcellular localization and their functional domains using the protanndb pipeline citation . to be retained as a cwp the prediction of a signal peptide for a given protein had to be positive with at least two different bioinformatic _METHOD_ . in addition the identified proteins should not carry a predicted _LOCATION_ retention signal or have more than one transmembrane domain . when the presence of a peptide signal was only predicted by one bioinformatic program a literature search was performed to find experimental evidence for _LOCATION_ localization . besides the signal peptide and/or the glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor may be predicted as transmembrane domains . this is manually checked for each protein having more than one predicted transmembrane domain . finally although they are not cwps putative _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ receptor proteins have been retained since they might be of interest for a better understanding of . to allow comparisons between previously published cw proteomes all of them have been annotated or reannotated in the same way and included in wallprotdb citation . the experimental results obtained in this study including the _METHOD_ data have been made publicly available in wallprotdb . the of ciii prxs were downloaded from the pdb site and visualized using the discovery studio visualizer software . sequences of a. thaliana ciii prxs available from the peroxibase citation have been aligned with clustalw _METHOD_ using default parameters citation . the alignment was manually adjusted . from the resulting alignment a graphical consensus was obtained using the weblogo tool with the relative frequency of each amino as the unit of citation .
