in flowering plants pollen tube growth is essential for delivery of male gametes into the female gametophyte or embryo sac for double fertilization . although many genes have been identified as being involved in the process the molecular _METHOD_ of pollen tube growth remains poorly understood . in this study we identified that the arabidopsis transmembrane protein gene played important roles in pollen tube growth . the shares a high similarity with the transmembrane proteins that are conserved in most eukaryotes and may play important roles in obesity in humans . mutation in the by a ds insertion caused abnormal callose deposition in the pollen grains and had a significant impact on pollen germination and pollen tube growth . is _PROTEIN_ in pollen grains pollen tubes root tips and other vegetative tissues . the assays showed that the mutation in also caused defects in roots _METHOD_ leaves and transmitting tracts . _METHOD_ was located around the _LOCATION_ . genetic assays demonstrated that the localization of around the _LOCATION_ in the generative cells of pollen grains was essential for the male fertility . furthermore _PROTEIN_ of the rice protein driven by promoter could recover the fertility of the arabidopsis mutant . these results suggested that the is important for plant growth in arabidopsis .
the mutant was isolated in a genetic screen for male mutants from a collection of and ds insertion lines in arabidopsis ecotype landsberg _LOCATION_ . the ds insertion created a genetic tag of kanamycin resistance in the mutant plant . at first a genetic analysis of the heterozygous plants was performed . the progeny from plants exhibited a segregation ratio of approximately much lower than the typical mendelian segregation ratio of to . furthermore no homozygous kanr plants were identified in the progeny . this result indicates that the mutant is defective in gametophytic function . genetic analysis of the mutant kanr kans . to determine how the mutation affected male or female gametophytic functions the plants were used as males or females to cross with wild type plants . as shown in table when the plants were used as female parents of the resulting progeny were kanr . in contrast when pollen grains were used to pollinate wild type plants no kanr plants in the progeny were obtained . thus the mutation disrupted male gametophytic function completely but did not affect female gametophytic function . to investigate how affected male gametophytic function observation of male gametophyte development was performed . scanning electron microscopy _PROTEIN_ showed that most of the pollen grains from the plants were as normal as wild type pollen grains in morphology . staining showed that the pollen grains from the plants had two sperm _LOCATION_ and a vegetative _LOCATION_ like wild type pollen grains . these results indicated that the mutation did not affected pollen formation . phenotypic characterization of pollen grains _PROTEIN_ images of pollen grains from wild type and plants . pollen grains from wild type and plants . aniline pollen grains from wild type _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ plants . section and _METHOD_ assays of pollen grains from wild type and / plants . the red arrows indicate the dotted callose deposition in the pollen grains . sn sperm cell _LOCATION_ vn vegetative cell _LOCATION_ . bars . aniline blue which is a specific dye for callose was used to study the callose deposition pattern in the pollen by comparison with wild type pollen . no obvious _METHOD_ signal was observed in wild type pollen grains as expected . in contrast of pollen grains from plants exhibited the dotted _METHOD_ signals indicating that a number of pollen grains had an abnormal callose deposition . because no homozygous mutant could be generated for the assays mutant was introgressed into a background of _PROTEIN_ mutant to perform quartet assay . the _PROTEIN_ mutation blocks physical separation of the tetrad pollen grains but does not affect the germination and growth of the pollen tubes . therefore a tetrad from the _PROTEIN_ mutant plants had two _PROTEIN_ pollen gains and two _PROTEIN_ pollen grains . when the tetrads pollen grains from _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ plants were stained with aniline blue no obvious _METHOD_ could be seen in _PROTEIN_ pollen grains from the _PROTEIN_ mutant plant while of pollen grains from the _PROTEIN_ plants showed dotted callose deposition patterns indicating that the pollen grains carrying the in the tetrads exhibited an unusual callose deposition . to verify the location of callose deposition in the pollen grains antibody was used to locate the callose in the section of pollen grains from the plants . as shown in figure j the punctate callose signals appeared nearby the inner wall in the pollen grain sections compared to that no obvious _METHOD_ signals were observed in the sections of the wild type pollen grains . these results showed that the pollen grains had an abnormal callose deposition during germination process . to study how mutation affected the male gametophytic function we further examined the germination of pollen grains . the mature pollen grains from plant were cultured in vitro . of the pollen grains from plants germinated in vitro compared to that of the pollen grains from wild type plants could germinate under the same culture condition indicating that the significantly reduced pollen germination in vitro . the affected in vitro and in vivo germination of pollen grains the in vitro germination of pollen grains from and plants . germination rates of pollen grains from wild type and plants . _PROTEIN_ images showing in vivo germination of the pollen grains from wild type and plants . the in vivo germination of pollen grains from _PROTEIN_ plants wild type and _PROTEIN_ plants . pg pollen grain pt pollen tubes stg stigmatic cells . white arrows indicate the ungerminated pollen grains . the red arrows indicate abnormal callose deposition in the pollen grains and pollen tubes . bars . p < . then we examined the pollen germination efficiency of the in vivo . after the pollen grains from and wild type plants were pollinated to the emasculated wild type flowers for h they were observed by _PROTEIN_ respectively . all the wild type pollen tubes could normally grow into the stigma . in contrast some of the pollen tubes generated by the pollen grains from plants were short and swollen . among the pollen grains from plants could grow morphologically normal pollen tubes did not germinate and produced shorter and swollen pollen tubes . in comparison of wild type pollen tubes could grow normally through the stigma . the quartet assays also achieved a similar result . in most tetrads from the _PROTEIN_ plants only or pollen grains could germinate pollen tubes . in general pollen grains produced normal pollen tubes pollen grains did not germinate and of pollen grains generated swollen pollen tubes . in the control most of the _PROTEIN_ tetrads could have three or four pollen grains produce pollen tubes . the germination rate was . aniline blue staining showed that the callose deposition pattern in pollen tube inner walls was obviously different from that in wild type pollen tubes . in the wild type the callose exhibited as strong and round _METHOD_ signals and uniformly distributed on the inner wall of pollen tubes . callose plugs were formed in the elongating wild type pollen tubes . in the mutant pollen grains from and _PROTEIN_ plants callose exhibited as a punctate distribution pattern and distributed irregularly in the swollen pollen tube inner walls . the punctate distribution pattern was not found in the morphologically normal pollen tubes . this result indicated that the abnormal callose deposition was likely related to the defect of the pollen tubes . thermal asymmetric interlaced pcr was applied to obtain the flanking sequences adjacent to the ds element in . sequence analysis showed that the ds element was inserted into the first exon of gene bp downstream from start codon _PROTEIN_ . the ds insertion site was further confirmed by conventional pcr using the and border primers . molecular characterization of mutant the organization of the gene showing the ds element insertion site . the in vitro germination of pollen grains from wild type and complemented plants . pollen germination rates of the wild type and the complemented plants . bars . to verify the phenotype of was caused by the ds insertion in the genomic sequence of which included the promoter coding region and region of was cloned into vector and introduced into the heterozygous plants via agrobacterium infiltration transformation . the seeds from the transgenic plants were plated on agar plates to analyze the ds segregation ratio . the progeny from out of transformant lines segregated in an increased ratio of kanr kans compared to those from controls . the aniline blue staining assays showed that the transgenic pollen grains exhibited a normal callose distribution pattern like wild type pollen grains . furthermore the in vitro pollen germination rates of the transformed lines were increased to the values similar to that of wild type pollen . these results demonstrated that the defects in pollen tube growth could be complemented by the introduction of the wild type genomic dna fragment . the _PROTEIN_ pattern of was first analyzed by and northern blotting hybridization using the rnas extracted from different wild type plant tissues including seedlings roots _METHOD_ leaves flowers and siliques . the _PROTEIN_ of were detected _PROTEIN_ in roots and inflorescences weaker in seedlings leaves and siliques suggesting that was a constitutive _PROTEIN_ gene . _PROTEIN_ patterns of assay and comparing the mrna levels in seedlings roots _METHOD_ leaves flowers and siliques . gus activity in seedling root leaf inflorescence anther pollen tube and silique from transgenic wild type plants carrying the gus construct . bars mm in and mm in and mm in and in . the _PROTEIN_ pattern of was further examined by promoter activity assay . the promoter was fused to gus reporter gene and introduced into wild type plants . the gus activity was detected _PROTEIN_ in root tips the cotyledon of seedlings mature anthers and pollen tubes consistent with the results from and northern blotting hybridization . these results indicated that is constitutively _PROTEIN_ in many tissues with higher levels in the tissues active in cell growth and differentiation . as mentioned above disrupts the male gametophytic function . no homozygous plant was obtained for further investigation of function . to further examine the impact of on vegetative development we performed the pollen rescue experiments using promoter of the gene fused with coding region . the resulting construct was introduced into mutant plants . the seeds from transgenic plants were planted on agar plates containing kanamycin . the progeny from the plants segregated in a rate of approximately kanr kans indicating that the construct could restore gametophytic function . the lines which were heterozygous for the ds insertion and homozygous for the insertion were generated and selected for further assays . in the progeny from plants approximately of the seedlings were stunted compared to wild type seedlings . the hypocotyls roots and cotyledons of the seedlings were shorter compared to those of wild type . when these stunted seedlings developed into mature plants the height of plants and length of siliques were shorter than those of wild type plants . the clarified root tips and root paraffin cross sections of the seedlings showed that the structures of the root cells were drastically disordered compared to those of wild type plants . _PROTEIN_ and paraffin cross section observation showed that the epidermal cells of the hypocotyl in seedlings were distorted . the siliques of plants were shorter in which seed set often occurred only in the upper halves of the siliques . when the pollen grains from plants were pollinated to wild type pistils the resulting pollen tubes could grow to the bottom of the pollinated wild type pistils . in contrast when the wild type pollen grains were pollinated to the pistils of the plants the wild type pollen tubes could grow into style but could not elongate to the bottom of the pistil . these results suggested that the construct only specifically restored the gametophytic function but did not restore silique development . therefore the mutant materials could be used to further study the impact of on vegetative development . phenotypic characterization of the mutants _PROTEIN_ levels of were drastically reduced in the homozygous seedlings as revealed by . a homozygous seedling compared with the wild type seedling under the same growth conditions . a mature homozygous plant compared with wild type plant under the same growth conditions . the flowering homozygous plants compared with wild type plants under the same growth conditions . a clarified wild type root tip showing the typical cell organization pattern . a clarified homozygous root tip showing the defect in the cell morphology and organization . the _PROTEIN_ images of hypocotyl epidermal cells in wild type seedlings and homozygous seedling . the red arrow indicates the distorted epidermal cell organization . the cross sectioning images of wild type root and homozygous root . comparison of the paraffin between wild type hypocotyl and homozygous hypocotyl . the red oval indicates irregularly hypocotyl cells . comparison of the siliques at the day after pollination between wild type and homozygous plants . the silique of homozygous mutant was much shorter than that of wild type . mature siliques from wild type plants and plants . the growth of pollen tubes in the wild type at dap . the growth of wild type pollen tubes in the silique at dap . comparison of paraffin cross section in wild type pistil and pistil . the red arrow indicates the unfused style diaphragm in pistil . bars in to and in to to . to examine the impact of the on silique development the paraffin section of transmitting tissue of plants were observed . the results showed that the style diaphragm of siliques was not fused compared to the wild type siliques . these results indicated that the cell morphogenesis in mutant siliques were affected . pcr assays using dna from the defective seedlings indicated that they were homozygous for the mutation . assays using the rnas extracted from the homozygous seedlings showed that _PROTEIN_ of was dramatically reduced in the seedlings . transgenic wild type plants with coding region construct were examined as a negative control no defective plants were found in these transgenic plants in wild type background . therefore the mutation also affected vegetative development in arabidopsis . protein has amino acid residues in length and contains three predicted transmembrane domains . it shares similarities with the proteins from many species in eucaryon except yeast and nematode but not in bacteria . in particular shares similarity with and similarity with similarity with and similarity with transmembrane and . the phylogenetic tree analysis showed that proteins could be clustered into animal and plant groups respectively . belongs to the plant group . shares sequence similarity with many from other species sequence alignment of proteins . phylogenetic analysis of proteins . the scale bar represents genetic distance . species and accession number arabidopsis thaliana _PROTEIN_ glycine max populus euphratica oryza sativa japonica group zea mays mus musculus homo sapiens danio rerio drosophila mojavensis . to investigate the subcellular localization of promoter of was fused to the genomic coding region and the coding sequence of green _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ . the resulting construct _METHOD_ was introduced into wild type and heterozygous plants respectively . genetic analysis showed that the progeny from of the resulting transgenic heterozygous segregated in a kanr kans ratio of up to indicating that the _METHOD_ fusion protein could function normally . the _METHOD_ signals were observed in roots pollen grains at the unicellular to tricellular stages and pollen tubes . in unicellular pollen grains the _METHOD_ signals were detected around the unique _LOCATION_ . in the bicellular pollen grains the _METHOD_ signals appeared around the vegetative and generative _LOCATION_ . in the tricellular pollen grains the _METHOD_ signals were located around the vegetative and two sperm _LOCATION_ . in the germinating pollen grains the _METHOD_ signals were detected around the vegetative and sperm _LOCATION_ in the growing pollen tubes . in the root hair the _METHOD_ signals were _PROTEIN_ around the _LOCATION_ . subcellular localization of _METHOD_ the _METHOD_ signals were located around the _LOCATION_ in unicellular pollen grain bicellulare pollen grain tricellulare pollen grain pollen tube and root hair from the _METHOD_ transgenic plants . the _METHOD_ signals were located around the _LOCATION_ in the unicellular pollen grain bicellulare pollen grain tricellulare pollen grain and root hair from _METHOD_ transgenic plants . _PROTEIN_ generative _LOCATION_ n _LOCATION_ vn vegetative _LOCATION_ bars . to examine whether the protein localization was related to the introns of the gene another construct was generated by replacing the genomic coding sequence with the cdna . the resulting _METHOD_ construct was also introduced into heterozygous plants . the progeny from the transgenic plants segregated in a ratio of kanr kans like the progeny from the nontransgenic plants indicating that _METHOD_ could not restore the fertility of mutant . the _METHOD_ signal was detected in the _METHOD_ transgenic pollen grains and roots roots and pollen grains . in the transgenic root hairs the _METHOD_ signals could be detected around the _LOCATION_ like those in the _METHOD_ transgenic plants . during the periods of pollen development however the _METHOD_ signals were appeared only around the vegetative cell _LOCATION_ differently from those in the _METHOD_ transgenic pollen grains in which _METHOD_ signals were located not only around the vegetative _LOCATION_ but also around the generative _LOCATION_ at the bicellular stage or around the sperm _LOCATION_ at the mature pollen stage . these results indicated that the introns of the was related to its _PROTEIN_ in generative and sperm _LOCATION_ in arabidopsis . to further examine which intron was involved in its _PROTEIN_ regulation in deletion assays were performed . gene has three introns . as shown in figure six constructs were generated for the assays . the resulting six constructs were introduced into plants respectively . the genetic analyses showed that the progeny from all the six construct transgenic plants segregated in a ratio of approximately kanr kans indicating that all six constructs could complement the fertility of mutant . the _METHOD_ signals were located around the vegetative and sperm _LOCATION_ of the transgenic tricellular pollen grains . thus any one intron of could be enough to enable the correct _PROTEIN_ of in the pollen grains . blastp search showed that rice also has a protein namely . to examine whether had the same function as in arabidopsis the construct was generated and introduced into mutant plants . the seedlings from the transgenic plants segregated in a ratio of kanr kans compared to the kanr kans segregation of the seedlings from the mutant plants . the result showed that the rice protein could complement the functional loss of in arabidopsis .
the arabidopsis thaliana plants used in this study were all in landsberg _LOCATION_ background . the seeds were plated on _METHOD_ agar plates with or without mg/l kanamycin or mg/l hygromycin at for d. then the seeds were cultured at under a light cycle of h h dark for d. the resulting seedlings were grown into soil in the same growth condition . the generation of ds insertion lines and screen of mutants were performed as described by sundaresan et al . . morphological observations of pollen grains by _PROTEIN_ were performed as described by jiang et al . . pollen viability was examined using alexander staining . dapi staining of pollen grains was performed as described by yang et al . . to examine in vitro pollen germination the pollen grains were plated on the pollen germination medium containing mm kcl mm mm and sucrose . then the pollen plates were incubated at for h. at least pollen grains were examined to calculate the average germination rates for each sample . to examine in vivo pollen tube growth the flowers were emasculated one day before anthesis . the being cultured at for h the pollinated pistils were mounted onto the sample platform and quickly examined for the pollen tube growth patterns on the stigma by _PROTEIN_ . on the other hand the pollinated pistils were collected and fixed in fixing solution for h. then the fixed pistils were softened in m naoh overnight . after washed with water for several times the pistils were stained with aniline blue buffer for h in the dark . the pollen tube growth patterns inside the pistils were observed using _METHOD_ microscopy _PROTEIN_ . pollen grain immunocytochemistry assay was performed as described by geitmann et al . . the flanking sequence adjacent to the ds element was obtained by . extraction of the genomic dna and were performed using ds/ad primer sets as described previously . the ds insertion was confirmed by conventional pcr using primers paired with the primer . the ds insertion site was determined by sequencing of the resulting flanking dna fragments . the upstream sequence and genomic dna of was amplified using rtaq with primers and and verified by sequencing . the resulting dna fragment was cloned into the binary vector and introduced into the heterozygous mutant plants by agrobacterium tumefaciens infiltration method . the transformant plants were selected on _METHOD_ medium supplemented with mg/l kanamycin and mg/l hygromycin . the selected transgenic plants were transferred into soil to produce seeds . the seeds were germinated on _METHOD_ agar plates to evaluate the complementation efficiency by analyzing the segregation ratio of kanamycin resistance . the pollen rescue experiment was performed by _PROTEIN_ of coding region in plants . the coding region of was amplified using rtaq with primers and . the promoter fragment was obtained from the plasmid _METHOD_ . the resulting dna fragment was cloned into binary vector . the resulting constructs were transformed into plants . the selection and segregation analysis of transformant plants was performed as described above . the total rna of rice seedlings was extracted with cetyltrimethylammonium bromide solution . reverse transcription was performed using alfalfa mosaic virus reverse transcriptase . the coding region of was amplified using rtaq with primers and . the construct was transformed into plants . the selection and genetic analysis of transformant plants was performed as described above . the seedlings roots _METHOD_ leaves flowers and siliques were harvested from seedlings and flowering plants respectively . the total rnas were extracted with cetyltrimethylammonium bromide solution . reverse transcription was performed using alfalfa mosaic virus reverse transcriptase . tubulin cdna was used as an internal control to normalize the amount of cdna templates . the primers and were used to amplify the tubulin cdna fragment . the primers and were used to assess the _PROTEIN_ level of as previously described by yang et al . . in northern blotting hybridization probe was amplified by rtaq using the primers and . the rna probes were labeled using the dig rna labeling kit as described by the supplier . rna gel blotting hybridizations were performed following the instructions of the dig system and dig application manual provided by the supplier . the promoter was amplified using rtaq with primers and . after verified by sequencing the fragment was subcloned upstream of the gus reporter gene in binary vector to generate the _PROTEIN_ cassette gus . the resulting construct was introduced into the wild type plants by agrobacterium tumefaciens infiltration method . the transformant plants were selected on _METHOD_ medium supplemented with mg/l hygromycin . the selected transgenic plants were transferred into soil to produce seeds . gus staining of plants tissues were performed as described previously . for paraffin sectioning the roots _METHOD_ leaves and siliques of the plants and wild type plants were fixed in solution and processed according to shi et al . and yang et al . . the observation of the clarified root tips were as described by yang et al . . the promoter fragment was amplified using rtaq with primers and . the genomic dna fragment without the stop codon was amplified by rtaq using primers and . the coding region fragment without the stop codon was amplified using rtaq with primers and . after verified by sequencing the promoter and genomic dna fragments were subcloned in front of the nos terminator sequence in the modified vector which contained _METHOD_ coding region resulting in a _METHOD_ tnos construct . the _METHOD_ tnos construct was generated in the same way . the _METHOD_ tnos and _METHOD_ tnos constructs were introduced into and wild type plants respectively . the transformant plants were selected using mg/l kanamycin and mg/l hygromycin . the subcellular localization of _METHOD_ fusion protein in the roots pollen grains and pollen tubes was visualized under a confocal microscope _PROTEIN_ .
