phosphatidylglycerol is an indispensable lipid constituent of photosynthetic _LOCATION_ whose function is essential in photosynthetic activity . in higher plants the biological function of the last step of pg biosynthesis remains elusive because an enzyme catalyzing this reaction step namely phosphatidylglycerophosphate phosphatase has been a missing piece in the entire glycerolipid metabolic map . here we report the identification and characterization of encoding a pgpp in arabidopsis thaliana . heterologous _PROTEIN_ of in yeast complemented growth phenotype and pg producing activity suggesting that encodes a functional pgpp . the gus reporter assay showed that was preferentially _PROTEIN_ in hypocotyl vasculatures trichomes guard cells and stigmas . a subcellular localization study with _METHOD_ reporter indicated that is _PROTEIN_ localized at chloroplasts . a t dna tagged knockout mutant of designated showed pale green phenotype with reduced pg and chlorophyll contents but no defect in embryo development . in the mutant ultrastructure of _LOCATION_ indicated defective development of chloroplasts and measurement of photosynthetic parameters showed impaired photosynthetic activity . these results suggest that is a primary _LOCATION_ pgpp required for pg biosynthesis and photosynthetic function in arabidopsis .
to identify a putative pgpp in arabidopsis we referred to and functional pgpps in c. reinhardtii and s. cerevisiae respectively . based on the homology search _GENE_ was found to be the only candidate for arabidopsis pgpp whose deduced amino acid sequence has overall homology to that of and . multiple sequence alignment showed that shares high similarity with and s. cerevisiae . a typical haloacid dehalogenase like phosphatase motif was found in the deduced polypeptide sequence of . the similarity and identity among and ranged and respectively . these values were higher between and than between and . these findings suggest that _GENE_ may encode a functional pgpp thus we carried out the following studies to further characterize its function . to examine whether is a functional pgpp we conducted heterologous complementation assay in s. cerevisiae mutant . compared to the wild type cells the cells lacking functional displayed an impaired growth rate at and were unable to grow at . at both and however harboring or recovered severe cell growth defect in the mutant demonstrating that functions in yeast to complement the growth defect of . to further examine whether the defective pg biosynthesis in is recovered by the heterologous complementation we performed radiolabelling experiment using phosphate . whereas intensity of radioactive spots for pg and its subsequent reaction product cardiolipin was faint in compared with the wild type the radioactive intensities were recovered in _PROTEIN_ as well as and . taken together these data suggest that is a functional pgpp for pg biosynthesis . to characterize the _PROTEIN_ pattern of at tissue level we constructed the stable transformant which harbours gus in a t dna tagged mutant of _PROTEIN_ and observed the gus staining in various tissues . in the mature embryo gus was prominent at the shoot apical meristem . in day old seedlings obvious _PROTEIN_ of gus presented in hypocotyl and mature part of roots but not in root tip . in day old seedlings gus staining was observed in hypocotyl and vasculature of cotyledons trichomes in emerging true leaves and joint part of the root to shoot . in mature leaves gus signal was found in guard cells in addition to trichomes . in floral organs gus staining was stronger in mature flowers than immature floral buds it was observed _PROTEIN_ in the stigma of pistils and vasculature in the filament of stamens . these _PROTEIN_ patterns showed that is _PROTEIN_ not ubiquitously but rather specifically in the limited tissues or cell types as described above . phosphatidylglycerol is synthesized in the _LOCATION_ mitochondria and the _LOCATION_ reticula . to find out the subcellular localization of we constructed transgenic plants which contain _METHOD_ in the mutant . confocal microscopy observation showed that _METHOD_ _METHOD_ was co localized with the chlorophyll _METHOD_ in the mesophyll cells of true leaves suggesting that is localized at chloroplasts . to investigate the in vivo function of we isolated two alleles of t dna insertional mutants and . the location of t dna in the and was found to be at the and introns respectively by dna sequencing . to analyze the _PROTEIN_ level of in the mutants we performed rt pcr analysis and found that a faint band for was visible in but not in . we confirmed this result by quantitative rt pcr the results showed that had no detectable transcripts for while is a leaky mutant of whose transcript level was of wild type level . hence we used for the subsequent characterization . comparing with the wild type the but not the displayed pale green phenotypes in the vegetative tissues . to test if this phenotype was caused by a mutation in we performed genetic complementation of by gene . the transgenic line which stably _PROTEIN_ in background recovered the pale green phenotype showing no visible difference from the wild type plants . moreover the phenotype was complemented also by gus and _METHOD_ . these results indicate that the knockout of produces pale green phenotypes . we examined the growth phenotype of . after the onset of reproductive growth entire plant body of including rosette leaves _METHOD_ cauline leaves sepals and siliques appeared pale green as compared with the wild type . since showed the pale green phenotype we observed the _METHOD_ of chlorophyll in both wild type and leaves . as compared with the wild type _METHOD_ of chlorophyll was diminished in . notably the mutant also showed the enlarged internal space between mesophyll cells in the cross section of leaves in comparison with the wild type . next we observed embryonic development in the . during embryo development chloroplasts are observed initially at the early heart stage and the number of chloroplasts gradually increased until the end of embryo development . the embryos of appeared pale green as compared with that of wild type at the heart torpedo and bent cotyledon stages . the _METHOD_ of chlorophyll at the bent cotyledon stage was considerably weaker in as compared with the wild type . however no morphological difference was observed at these developmental stages between the wild type and the embryos . thus deficiency of led to the pale green phenotype both in embryonic and post embryonic development but not morphological defects of embryos . to study the function of in lipid biosynthesis in vivo we analyzed _PROTEIN_ glycerolipid contents in day old seedlings of the and the wild type . the results showed that overall pg level in the was reduced to nearly that of the wild type . in addition mgdg level was reduced by while _PROTEIN_ level increased by in the . these changes were also reported previously in _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ mutants which are defective in the biosynthesis of pg in _LOCATION_ . to examine whether pg content in the _LOCATION_ is reduced in the we isolated intact chloroplasts from the wild type and and quantified the amount of pg . comparing with the wild type the amount of pg in mol was reduced by in the . the fatty acid compositions of glycerolipid classes were also compared between the wild type and as shown in figure . in pg of the was significantly reduced and saturated fatty acids and were increased . besides a significant _PROTEIN_ was found for a signature fatty acid species in _LOCATION_ pg . in other _LOCATION_ lipid classes mgdg and dgdg similar changes were observed namely a _PROTEIN_ in and an increase in saturated fatty acids . in extraplastidic phospholipids _PROTEIN_ the changes were less obvious but some _PROTEIN_ in was observed . thus the knockout of significantly reduced the pg amount including the _LOCATION_ pg and affected the molecular species of pg and contents of other _LOCATION_ lipid classes particularly mgdg . the chloroplast localization of pale green phenotype of the and its primary defects in contents of pg and other _LOCATION_ lipid classes suggest that the is _PROTEIN_ defective in the chloroplast function . we therefore observed the cellular ultrastructure in day old rosette leaves of . transmission electron microscopy observation showed that compared with the wild type underdeveloped chloroplasts were observed in a cell of . magnified images of the _LOCATION_ showed the altered shape of _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ and thinner grana stacks in the comparing with that of the wild type . besides the number of grana appeared to be less with slight bending in the . these results indicated that is required for the development of _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ and chloroplast function . to investigate the photosynthetic characteristics of the we measured the pigment content and the photosynthetic parameters . the overall spectral profile of photosynthetic pigment after normalization was similar between the wild type and so pigment composition is not substantially changed in the mutant . however as compared with the wild type levels of chlorophyll a and b were _PROTEIN_ by and in respectively which gave the ratio of chlorophyll a/b to be insignificant between and the wild type . conversely the amount of carotenoids showed no significant difference between the wild type and . we next measured the photosynthetic electron transport activity in the mutant using imaging pulse amplitude modulation _PROTEIN_ fluorometer . a lower value of maximum quantum efficiency of psii was detected particularly in the emerging true leaves of dark _PROTEIN_ compared with that of wild type indicating that the photochemical reaction in psii is partially inhibited in the mutant . however the _PROTEIN_ analysis under increased actinic light showed that the effective quantum yield of psii under light was similar between the wild type and . consistent with the _PROTEIN_ fv/fm value in the mutant the maximum quantum efficiency of open psii under light was slightly but consistently lower in than the wild type under all ranges of light intensity . inversely the coefficient of photochemical quenching a parameter of the redox state of the psii acceptor side was increased in . these data suggest that psii in the mutant was at more open states under given light than the wild type presumably because of the lower psii photochemical efficiency in the mutant as represented by the lower . to further evaluate the electron transport activity in the we measured the induction kinetics of chlorophyll _METHOD_ in leaves in a logarithmic time series . in both the wild type and a polyphasic increase of chlorophyll _METHOD_ was observed during actinic light illumination which represents a stepwise retardation of the photosynthetic electron flow from primary photochemical reactions in psii to _PROTEIN_ reduction processes at the acceptor side of psi by actinic light . in the mutant chlorophyll _METHOD_ rose faster than that in the wild type at the fast to the middle phases indicating a rapid saturation of the reaction centres of psii . taken together these results demonstrated that the mutation _PROTEIN_ chlorophyll contents and intrinsic photochemical efficiency of psii .
arabidopsis plants were grown under continuous light condition at . murashige and skoog medium was used at half strength concentration for plant culture . seeds of t dna mutants were obtained from european arabidopsis stock centre . homozygous plants were isolated by pcr based genotyping with gene specific primers _PROTEIN_ and t dna specific primers _PROTEIN_ . see table for the oligonucleotide primers used in this study . the multiple alignment of the protein sequences among and was assembled with use of clustalw . the amino acids identity and similarity were analyzed through emboss open software suite _METHOD_ . saccharomyces cerevisiae cells were grown in ypd medium . cells harbouring the marker plasmid were grown in synthetic complete medium lacking uracil . a bp fragment of the orf of was amplified with cdna prepared from wild type arabidopsis by pcr with the primers and and then inserted into ecori and xhoi sites of to construct . complementation assay including control strains was performed as previously described . briefly culture of the wild type and harboring or was serially diluted by fold from left to right starting at of and each was spotted on sc ura agar plates . the plates were incubated for days under the indicated temperature . image is representative of three replicates . for construction of a bp genomic sequence for was amplified by pcr with the primers and . the fragment was cloned into the pentr/d_topo plasmid vector to obtain which was then recombined into the pbgw destination vector with the use of lr clonase to obtain . to create the gus reporter construct translationally fused to the c terminus of gus the genomic sequence for except the stop codon was amplified by pcr with the primers and . the fragment was cloned into the pentr/d_topo plasmid vector and the resulting plasmid was recombined into the destination vector using the lr clonase to produce . to create the _METHOD_ _METHOD_ reporter construct fused translationally to the c terminus of _METHOD_ was recombined into the destination vector using the lr clonase to obtain . the resulting plasmid and were transformed into the via agrobacterium mediated transformation . in total plants were selected for each transgenic line by spraying basta solution onto seedlings on soil and seeds were harvested individually . the obtained seeds were selected by genotyping and strength in the _PROTEIN_ of reporter gene by observation . lines used for the experiments were lines no . gus no . and _METHOD_ no . . total rna was isolated from day old seedlings by use of _PROTEIN_ including dnase treatment and cdna was synthesized by use of the superscript iii first strand synthesis kit . rt pcr was performed with primers and for and and for act . for qrt pcr and were used for . radiolabelling assay of pgpp activity was conducted as previously described . briefly logarithmically growing yeast cells were resuspended in ml sc ura medium containing at the of . after shaking incubation for h at room temperature lipids were extracted as described in bligh and dyer spotted on a thin layer chromatography plate _METHOD_ and developed with chloroform/methanol/acetic acid along with pg and cl _METHOD_ as standards . radioactive spots were visualized by imaging plate and _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ . unlabelled pg and cl were stained with primuline in acetone and detected under uv light . twelve freshly harvested and leaves of day old wild type and were used to extract pigments with ml acetone . after extraction the samples were centrifuged and the absorbance of supernatant was determined by spectrophotometry at wavelengths and nm . chlorophyll amount was calculated as previously described . data are shown as the mean standard deviation of three biological replicates . the absorption spectra of pigments prepared from same samples were determined by spectrophotometry with wavelength scanning from to nm and normalized at nm . data are shown as the mean sd of three replicates . imaging _PROTEIN_ m series was used to determine the photosynthetic parameters . prior to measurements intact day old seedlings on _METHOD_ agar plates were incubated in the dark for min . then chlorophyll _METHOD_ was analyzed in whole seedlings with imaging _PROTEIN_ . after the fv/fm measurement plants were exposed for min to each light intensity to determine the light response curves of yii and qp . averaged _METHOD_ values in a circular area were collected from immature leaves emerging from the shoot apical meristem and matured first or second true leaves with the imagingwin software . photosynthetic parameters were calculated as described . for _METHOD_ induction kinetics seedlings were _PROTEIN_ in darkness for min and chlorophyll _METHOD_ was measured in a logarithmic time series between and sec under continuous actinic light with a fluorometer _METHOD_ . the embryos of the wild type and mutant were dissected at the heart cotyledon and bent cotyledon stages . for the dic images of developing embryos the seeds of the wild type and mutant at the same developmental stages were cleared by clearance solution and then normaski images were acquired using an upright microscope . harvested fresh tissues were incubated in gus staining solution _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ overnight at . gus stained tissues were cleared in ethanol . images were acquired with stemi c stereomicroscope equipped with a nikon digital camera and upright microscope . _METHOD_ of _METHOD_ in day old seedlings of the _METHOD_ line was observed under a microscope equipped with an lci plan neofluar na immersion lens a plan apochromat na lens and a plan apochromat na lens . rosette leaves of day old seedlings of the wild type and were fixed in glutaraldehyde and paraformaldehyde in m sodium phosphate buffer at room temperature for h. after rinsing three times for min with the buffer samples were post fixed in at room temperature for h and rinsed three times with phosphate buffer . samples were dehydrated in an ethanol series and propylene oxide embedded in spurr 's resin and sectioned with use of a leica em ultramicrotome . ultra thin sections were stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate and observed under a transmission electron microscope at kv . the images were captured by use of a gatan orius ccd camera . the _PROTEIN_ sections were used for microscopy analysis of leaf morphology . intact chloroplasts were fractioned as described previously with slight modification . in brief g of fresh rosette leaves were harvest and crushed in ml of chloroplast buffer using a waring blender _METHOD_ . after filtration through miracloth _METHOD_ the suspension was centrifuged for min at g at . the pellet was then resuspended in ml of chloroplast buffer and carefully loaded onto a percoll gradient and centrifuged for min at g at . the collected pellet was washed twice with ml of chloroplast buffer and centrifuged for min at g at . to measure pg contents the washed intact chloroplasts were first incubated with ml isopropanol with butylated hydroxytoluene at to inactivate phospholipase d activity then total lipids were extracted as described . pg was isolated by two dimentional tlc and quantified with gas chromatography as described . _PROTEIN_ glycerolipids of day old seedlings of the wild type and were analyzed as described . briefly total lipids were extracted using bligh dyer 's method and each _PROTEIN_ glycerolipid class was separated on a silica gel tlc plate using a solvent system of chloroform methanol aqueous ammonia for the first dimension and chloroform methanol acetic acid water for the second dimension . each lipid spot was identified by spraying primuline solution and visualizing under the uv light which was scraped off and acyl moieties were hydrolyzed and methylesterified with hcl meoh containing pentadecanoic acid as an internal standard . fatty acid methyl esters were quantified using a gas chromatograph equipped with a ulbon hr ss column . data are the mean standard deviation of three biologically independent samples .
