ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
of actin organization ( Hall, 1998 ). Therefore, effects of transient expression of mutant At-Rac2 on the tobacco pollen tube actin  cytoskeleton were examined. G 15 V-At-Rac2 or T 20 N-At-Rac2 were coexpressed in pollen tubes with a GFP-mouse  talin fusion protein, which we have shown to label plant  actin filaments in vivo in a specific and noninvasive manner ( Kost et al., 1998 ). The actin cytoskeleton
cytoplasmic and membrane fractions (Fig.  6  b).  To investigate the intracellular localization of pollen  tube Rac in more detail, sequences encoding wild-type and  mutant forms of At-Rac2 fused to the COOH terminus of  GFP were transiently
that they associated with the plasma  membrane specifically in this pollen tube region. The rest  of the fusion proteins was evenly distributed in the cytoplasm (Fig.  7 , e, f, i, and j). GFP fused to At-Rac2ΔCSIL  did not show membrane association (Fig.  7 , g and k) and  was localized to the cytoplasm similar to GFP (Fig.  7 , h  and l). In summary, the results described here indicate that At-Rac2 homologues localize specifically to the plasma membrane at the pollen tube tip and confirm that the COOH-terminal prenylation domain is essential for
membrane in the tube tip (Fig.  9 , e and i). Although GFP-PLC-δ 1 -PH appeared to label a somewhat  smaller area, its localization in tobacco pollen tubes was  strikingly similar to that of transiently expressed GFP-At-Rac2
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
(Stratagene) PCR-based mutagenesis was used to create mutant sequences encoding G 15 V-At-Rac2, T 20 N-At-Rac2, and Q 64 E-At-Rac2. After sequence confirmation, mutated  At-Rac2  cDNAs were subcloned into nonamplified pLAT52MCS. The cloning of sequences encoding green fluorescent protein (GFP)  and GFP fused to the NH 2  terminus of the mouse talin f-actin binding domain into pLAT52MCS was described earlier ( Kost et al., 1998 ). Into the  same expression vector, sequences were inserted that encoded GFP fused  to the NH 2  terminus of the following polypeptides: At-Rac2, At-Rac2ΔCSIL, and G 15 V-At-Rac2 (sequences subcloned from the vectors  described above); the PH-domain of human PLC-δ 1  (amino acids 2–175 of  PLC-δ
the PCR product was found to contain a point  mutation and was replaced by corresponding wild-type sequences from  “ARNO-PH in pEGFP-C1”; the final construct was free of sequence errors). The  GFP-PLC-δ 1 -PH  sequence in pLAT52MCS was altered by  QuikChange™ mutagenesis to sequences encoding GFP-PLC-δ 1 -PH-K 32 L and GFP-PLC-δ 1 -PH-K 32 E. Correct amplification of the regions encoding mutated versions of PLC-δ 1 -PH was confirmed by sequencing. A. thaliana Transformation
Axioscope microscope equipped with a 100-W mercury lamp. All images were obtained  by exposing 400 ASA 35 mm film (EliteII;  Eastman Kodak Co. ) for 10–15 s.  Confocal analysis of GFP expression was performed using an LSM410 inverted confocal microscope ( Carl Zeiss Inc. ) as outlined in  Kost et al.  (1998) . Methods used to determine pollen tube growth rates and techniques used for digital image processing
100 mM NaCl, 5 mM MgCl 2 , 0.1 mM  EGTA, 1 mM DTT). After resuspension in buffer C during the last washing step, one-tenth of the total volume of each sample was analyzed by  SDS-PAGE and Coomassie brilliant blue staining to verify concentration  and quality of the recombinant proteins used. Washed beads were resuspended in 35 μl buffer C. Samples used to investigate effects of phosphatidic acid on At-Rac2–associated kinase activity were treated similarly, 
