ABSTRACT:
Phytochrome is a ubiquitous photoreceptor  of plants and is encoded by a small multigene family.  We have shown recently that a functional nuclear localization signal may reside within the COOH-terminal  region of a major member of the family, phytochrome  B (phyB) (Sakamoto, K., and A. Nagatani. 1996.  Plant  J . 10:859–868). In the present study, a fusion protein
RESULTS:
123-kD fragment is  likely to be produced by the residual proteolytic activity in  the extract during the extraction procedure. phyB-GFP Localizes to the Nucleus in the Light Intracellular localization of the phyB-GFP fusion protein  in the PBG-5 seedlings was examined. Epidermal layers  including cortex were peeled from the light-grown seedlings and observed under a fluorescence microscope. At  lower magnification, bright green spots of GFP fluorescence were observed (Fig.  4 , a–c). Positions of the spots  matched well with those of the nuclei revealed by the  Hoechst staining. Similar fluorescence images were obtained for another transgenic line, PBG-7 (data not  shown). Interestingly, observation at higher magnification  revealed that the phyB-GFP fluorescence was speckled  within the nuclear region (Fig.  4 , d–f). The apparent size of  each speckle appeared to be <1 μm.
that phyB-GFP was distributed  outside the nucleus and throughout the cell in darkness. Red Light Induces Nuclear Accumulation of phyB-GFP The time course of nuclear accumulation of phyB-GFP  during the dark to light transition was followed. The PBG-5  dark-grown seedlings were transferred under continuous  red light. As shown in Fig.  8 , nuclear fluorescence was not  clear at time 0 (Fig. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
submitted by Dr. R. Sharrock, Montana State University, Bozeman, MT)  except that a C to T substitution at the base position 971, which does not  cause amino acid difference, was detected. To construct the  PHYB - GFP   fusion sequence,  PHYB  translational termination codon (TAG) was replaced with an oligonucleotide sequence (GGAGGTGGAGGTATCGAT) by PCR. This oligonucleotide introduces a unique ClaI restriction  site at its 3′ terminus. The  GFP  clone (blue-sGFP-TYG-nos KS) ( Chiu et al., 1996 ) was a  kind gift from Dr. J. Sheen (Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,  MA). This clone contains a unique ClaI restriction site that shortly precedes the ATG start codon of the  GFP  gene. The  PHYB  and  GFP  clones  were ligated at the ClaI restriction site to generate  PHYB - GFP  translational fusion. As the result, an oligoamino acid sequence (GGGGIDKLDP) was inserted between the phyB and GFP amino acid sequences  (Fig.  1  a). This  PHYB - GFP  chimeric cassette was inserted between the  constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the Nos terminator of an  Agrobacterium  transformation vector pBI-Hyg/35S-NosT, which  is derived from another transformation vector pBI101-Hm (a gift from Dr.  Kenzo Nakamura, Nagoya University, Japan) by removing its  uidA  gene  (Nakamura, M., unpublished observation). The resulting vector was designated pBI-Hyg/35S-PHYB-sGFP-NosT (Fig.  1  a).  Arabidopsis phyB  mutant was transformed using  Agrobacterium -mediated in planta transformation ( Bechtold et al., 1993 ). Transformed plants  were selected on the medium containing 25 mg ml −1  hygromycin B ( Boehringer Mannheim ) and 166 mg ml −1  claforan (Hoechst). The transgenic  lines PBG-5 and PBG-7 were selected from the drug-resistant lines by  phyB immunoblotting and GFP epifluorescence microscopy. Growth Conditions and Light Treatments For growth of plants, seeds were sown on 0.6% agar plates containing the  Murashige-Skoog medium with 2% (wt/vol) sucrose
sulfate precipitation. The precipitated protein was dissolved in the SDS-PAGE sample buffer and subjected to immunoblot analysis ( Sakamoto and Nagatani, 1996 ). Antibodies used were an anti-phyB mAb, mBA2 ( Shinomura et al., 1996 ), and an  anti-GFP mAb ( Clontech ). Molecular weight markers (prestained SDS  molecular weight standard mixture) were from  Sigma Chemical Co. Microscopic Observation Arabidopsis  seedlings were soaked in 2 μg ml −1  Hoechst No. 33342  ( Sigma
