ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
only a single giant chloroplast. In general, the severity of the chloroplast division defect appeared to be correlated with the level of AtFtsZ1-1–GFP accumulation and with the presence of AtFtsZ1-1–GFP filament networks. A similar correlation between AtFtsZ1-1 accumulation and plastid division inhibition has been demonstrated previously in plants overexpressing an  AtFtsZ1-1  transgene under control of the CaMV 35S promoter ( Stokes et al. 2000 ). Among these
of sections from individuals with severe plastid division defects and high AtFtsZ1-1 levels ( Fig. 4  A, lane 7) revealed that AtFtsZ1-1 is also detected in disorganized filament networks in these plants ( Fig. 4  C, right). AtFtsZ1-1–GFP was often localized similarly in the
 overexpression lines, but not in wild-type plants (not shown). Overall, the behavior of the AtFtsZ1-1–GFP fusion protein paralleled that of the native protein, both with respect to its localization patterns and with regard to its dosage-dependent impact on plastid division. We conclude that the AtFtsZ1-1–GFP fusion protein accurately reflects the activity of AtFtsZ1-1 in vivo. FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 Rings Are Present in Chloroplasts of Other Plants To determine whether FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 proteins assemble into rings in plants
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
4 wk in a growth chamber as described previously ( Osteryoung et al. 1998 ). Pea ( Pisum sativum ) cv. ‘Little Marvel’ seeds were germinated in vermiculite and grown for 10 d under the same conditions. Construction of AtFtsZ1-1–GFP Transgene A fragment from the  AtFtsZ1-1  genomic sequence was amplified by PCR from  Arabidopsis  bacterial artificial chromosome clone MCO15 (EMBL/GenBank/DDBJ accession number AB010071), using primers 5′-GAA G GATCC CAGACACTTTCTC (forward) and 5′-AACT GGATCC AAAGTCTACGGGG (reverse)
digestion with BamHI, contained ∼1.67 kb of the 5′ region and the entire coding sequence of  AtFtsZ1-1 , excluding the ultimate phenylalanine and stop codons. This fragment was inserted into the BamHI site in front of a soluble-modified GFP (EMBL/GenBank/DDBJ accession number U70495) ( Davis and Vierstra 1996 ) cassette, psmGFP (stock number CD3-326;  Arabidopsis  Biological Resource Center) containing GFP and a  nos  terminator, in the pBJ97 shuttle vector (empty vector obtained from Bart Janssen, The Horticulture and Food Research Institute, Auckland, New Zealand via John Bowman, University of California at Davis, Davis, CA). Sequencing confirmed that no PCR amplification errors were introduced into the coding sequence of  AtFtsZ1-1  and that the  AtFtsZ1-1  insert was in frame with the GFP coding sequence. In the resulting fusion protein, the penultimate phenylalanine of AtFtsZ1-1 was changed to tryptophan (underlined) and a linker region before the starting methionine of GFP encoded the sequence  W IGGSIQGDIT. The  AtFtsZ1-1 –GFP construct was then excised with NotI and inserted into the plant transformation vector pMLBART (obtained from Karl Gordon, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Canberra, Australia via John Bowman, University of California at Davis, Davis, CA), a derivative
(Deneba Software) software. For in vivo GFP fluorescence microscopy, fresh leaf tissue was mounted in water and viewed with an FITC filter set and images were recorded on TMAX 400 film (Eastman Kodak Co.). Immunoblotting Preparation of leaf extracts, PAGE, and immunoblotting were performed as described
