ABSTRACT:
short interfering RNA (siRNA). They collectively function as sequence-specific guides to silence or regulate genes, transposons, and viruses and to modify chromatin and genome structure. Formation or activity of small RNAs requires factors belonging to gene families that encode DICER (or DICER-LIKE [DCL]) and ARGONAUTE proteins and, in the case of some siRNAs, RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDR) proteins. Unlike many animals, plants encode multiple DCL and RDR proteins. Using a series of insertion mutants of  Arabidopsis thaliana , unique functions
RESULTS:
in a heterologous plant,  Nicotiana benthamiana , using an  Agrobacterium  infiltration assay. Subcellular accumulation sites for these proteins were compared to those of β-glucurodinase (GUS)–GFP (cytosolic control) and nuclear inclusion a protein (NIa)–GFP (nuclear control). The DCL3–GFP, HEN1–GFP, and GFP–AGO4 fusion proteins were detected exclusively in the nucleus ( Figure 4 ;  Figure S2 ), indicating that DCL3, HEN1, and AGO4 possess independent nuclear transport capability. Subcellular localization experiments with RDR2–GFP and GFP–RDR2 fusion proteins, however, were inconclusive due to low expression levels and protein instability (data not shown). Figure 4 Subcellular Localization of GFP Fusion Proteins Pairwise presentation of confocal microscopic images showing GFP fluorescence (top) and DAPI fluorescence (bottom) in  N. benthamiana  expressing the indicated GFP fusion proteins. Arrowheads indicate the location of nuclei. Note that the GUS–GFP control protein accumulates in cytoplasm at the cell periphery and immediately surrounding nuclei, while the NIa–GFP control protein accumulates in nuclei. Scale bar = 25μm. Genetic Requirements for Virus-Derived siRNA Formation The involvement of DCL1, DCL2, and DCL3 in siRNA formation in response to infection by three dissimilar RNA viruses was tested using the 
weight of bolts) lower compared to infected wild-type plants ( Figure 6 A and  6 C). Therefore, DCL2 functions as a component of the antiviral silencing response in TCV-infected plants. The DCL2–GFP fusion protein accumulated predominantly in the nucleus of  N. benthamiana  cells in the transient assay system, although some cytosolic localization was also detected (see  Figure 4 ). Thus, DCL1 ( Papp et al. 2003 ), DCL2,
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
AtSN1  in wild-type Col-0 and  rdr2-1  and  dcl3-1  mutants was measured relative to that at internal control loci, At4g04040 and At4g03800. The data were then normalized against the values measured in Col-0. Analysis of GFP fusion proteins The  35S:DCL3–GFP  construct contained the  DCL3  coding region fused to GFP coding sequence, flanked by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter and terminator sequences. The expression cassette was cloned in pSLJ755I5. All other GFP fusion constructs were made by cloning the coding sequence
bolting) were infected with TuMV–GFP, CMV-Y, and TCV as described previously ( Whitham et al. 2000 ;  Lellis et al. 2002 ). At 7 and 14 dpi, systemic tissues consisting of inflorescences and cauline leaves were harvested for ELISA and RNA blot assays.
