ABSTRACT:
reaction that involves oxygenation of the 7-methyl group of Chl  a  to a formyl group. This reaction uses molecular oxygen and is catalyzed by chlorophyllide  a  oxygenase (CAO). The amino acid sequence of CAO predicts mononuclear iron and Rieske iron-sulfur centers in the protein. The mechanism of synthesis of Chl  b  and localization of this reaction in the chloroplast are essential steps toward understanding LHC assembly. Results Fluorescence of a CAO-GFP fusion protein, transiently expressed in young pea leaves, was found at the periphery of mature chloroplasts and on thylakoid membranes by confocal fluorescence microscopy. However, when membranes from partially degreened cells of  Chlamydomonas reinhardtii cw 15 were resolved on sucrose gradients, full-length CAO was detected by immunoblot analysis only on the chloroplast envelope inner membrane. The electron paramagnetic resonance spectrum of CAO included a resonance at g = 4.3, assigned to the predicted mononuclear iron center. Instead of a spectrum of the predicted Rieske iron-sulfur center, a nearly symmetrical, approximately 100 Gauss peak-to-trough signal was observed at g = 2.057, with
and Tyr-518 in  Arabidopsis ) as the radical species. The radical was quenched by chlorophyll  a , an indication that it may be involved in the enzymatic reaction. Conclusion CAO was found on the chloroplast envelope and thylakoid membranes in mature chloroplasts but only on the envelope inner membrane in dark-grown  C. reinhardtii  cells. Such localization provides further support for the envelope membranes as the initial site
RESULTS:
red fluorescence was not found. Particularly at the periphery of the plastids, the green fluorescence of GFP seemed predominant ( arrows ) while the fluorescence of Chl was predominant within the chloroplast ( asterisks ). This experiment indicated that CAO was located on envelope and thylakoid membranes in developed chloroplasts, although the relative enrichment seemed greater
cm -3 ) typical of the inner envelope membrane was resolved in the middle of the gradient (Figure  2 , fractions 3–6). The only immunoreactive polypeptide detected in these fractions with antiserum against CAO was 51 kDa in mass, the size predicted for the  CAO  gene product [ 14 ]. These immunoreactive membranes were clearly separated from residual thylakoid membranes, indicated by their content of Chl and by immunostaining with antibodies against LHCP, which were recovered
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
through cheesecloth. Samples were centrifuged at 3 kg av  and supernatant fractions were centrifuged at 200 kg av  for 30 min to obtain membrane pellets. Transient expression system and confocal microscopy CaMV35S promoter, TMV Omega sequence and AtCAO-GFP gene were introduced into the multi-cloning site of pGreenII0029. For transient expression in pea guard cells, 25 μl of gold particles (1 μm diameter, 30 mg ml -1  in 50% glycerol) were mixed with 5 μl of plasmid
k psi using a PDS 1000HE biolistic device (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA). The bombarded leaf was mounted on a plastic plate 24 h after transformation and fluorescence images were recorded on a MRC 1024 system (Bio-Rad) and an Axioplan fluorescent microscope (Carl Zeiss, Jena,
ligated into the pMAL-c2 vector using XbaI and EcoRI, and the resulting plasmid insert was sequenced. The recombinant protein (4.3 mg) was purified according to manufacturer's instructions, cleaved with Factor Xa, and the antigen fragment was purified by SDS-PAGE. Coomassie blue-stained gel slices were used to produce polyclonal antiserum in rabbits by Antibodies Inc., Davis, CA. Immunoprecipitation Arabidopsis  leaves (10 g) were homogenized in 50 mM Hepes buffer, pH 7.5, and filtered through cheese cloth. n-Dodecyl-β- D
