ABSTRACT:
The gene  SHOOT MERISTEMLESS  ( STM ) is required for the initiation and the maintenance of the shoot apical meristem (SAM) in  Arabidopsis  and encodes a MEINOX/three amino acid loop extension (TALE)-HD-type transcription factor. Translational fusions with the green fluorescent protein showed that STM is not nuclear by default. In a yeast two-hybrid screen performed with a meristem-enriched cDNA library, three interacting BLH (Bel1-like homeodomain) transcription factors were identified. According to bimolecular fluorescence complementation, STM is targeted into the nuclear compartment through heterodimerization with BLH partner proteins, which are expressed in distinct SAM domains from the center to the periphery. On a functional level, overexpression experiments in transgenic  Arabidopsis  plants suggest that
RESULTS:
ORFs of  STM  and the  GFP  were constructed and expressed in leek or onion epidermal cells after particle bombardment. As a potential transcription factor, STM was expected to direct GFP fluorescence into the plant cell nucleus. However, both fusion proteins, GFP-STM and STM-GFP remained in the cytoplasm ( Figure 1B and C ). The same result was obtained in epidermal cells of the  Arabidopsis  hypocotyl. In contrast, the addition of the  virD2  NLS ( 33 ) in front of the chimeric  GFP-STM  ORF efficiently directed the chimeric NLS-GFP-STM protein into the plant cell nucleus ( Figure 1D ). An inappropriate folding of the N- or C-terminal GFP fusion proteins is unlikely, because expression of both chimeric proteins (GFP-STM + STM-GFP) in transgenic  Arabidopsis  plants behind the CaMV35S promoter yielded the characteristic
whereas only 44 (18%) T 1  plants showed meristem defects including  stm  phenocopies, presumably due to co-suppression. A nuclear-targeted STM protein version therefore affects leaf development more than SAM function. The cytoplasmic retention of the chimeric GFP-STM protein was further substantiated by confocal laser microscopy scanning and staining of nuclei with propidium iodide. The comparison of a median Z-stack projection through the nucleus either analysed for GFP-STM fluorescence ( Figure 1F ), the corresponding propidium iodine stains ( Figure 1G ) and their overlay in  Figure 1H  confirm exclusion of GFP fluorescence from the nuclear compartment. In contrast to the median sections depicted in  Figure 1F , the same scanning series shows GFP-STM fluorescence surrounding the nucleus, which would explain fluorescence at the position of the nucleus in whole mounts depicted in  Figure 1B or C . Protein extracts prepard from leek epidermal cells after particle bombardement showed no degradation of the GFP-STM fusion protein with an antibody directed against the GFP ( Figure 1I ). Taken together, the data lead to the conclusion that STM is devoid of an efficient NLS. Additional support for nuclear exclusion was obtained by several STM deletion constructs, none of which targeted GFP fluorescence to the plant cell nucleus (data not shown). This nuclear import deficiency is noteworthy since the ELK domain conserved between the MEINOX domain and the homeodomain in plant KNOX proteins ( Figure 1A ) has been assumed to
) is ubiquitously transcribed throughout the SAM and only down-regulated when cells acquire primordial fate at the SAM periphery. Heterodimerization with BLH partners directs STM into the plant cell nucleus The principle of BiFC is the formation of a fluorescent complex by fragments of the enhanced YFP brought together by the association of two interaction partners ( 31 , 36 ). To verify STM interaction partners we constructed translational
YFP /STM-N YFP , BLH3-N YFP /STM-C YFP  and BLH9-N YFP /STM-C YFP  resulted in reconstitution of YFP fluorescence. In contrast to results obtained with STM-GFP fusions, however, the BiFC signal exhibited a high preference for the nucleus whereas fluorescence was low in the cytoplasm. The BiFC results therefore, confirm that full-length STM and BLH proteins interact in plant cells, but more notably, that BLH/STM heterodimers are efficiently incorporated into the nuclear compartment. Expectedly, the GFP-ATH1, GFP-BLH3 and GFP-BLH9 fusion proteins exerted a preference for the nuclear compartment ( Figure 4D–F ). The nuclear import of GFP-BLH9 in leek epidermal cells appears to be in contrast to previous results obtained in tobacco leaves after agroinfection with a C-terminal BLH9-GFP fusion construct. However, without analysing the cellular localization of the STM protein, Bhatt  et al . ( 19 ) arrive at the same conclusion that STM/BLH9 heterodimers are efficiently imported into the plant cell nucleus. In contrast to bombardments with the  ATH1  and  BLH3  constructs, the number of BiFC-positive cells obtained with the  BLH9 / STM  combination (e.g. BLH9-N YFP /STM-C YFP  in  Figure 4C )
in leak epidermal cells, or that steric constraints interfere with a reconstitution of YFP fluorescence. Reminiscent, however, of the MEIS/PBC situation in animals, the GFP and BiFC data show that the TALE-HD transcription factor STM is targeted into the nuclear compartment through interaction with three BLH partner proteins, which are members of the non-MEINOX class of TALE-HD proteins in plants. The BELL domain is
heterodimerization with STM ( Figure 4H and I ). BiFC fluorescence still exerted a preference for the nucleus if sequences C-terminal to the BELL domain including the DNA-binding homeodomain were deleted (BLH3 ΔC,  Figure 4H ). In contrast, YFP fluorescence reconstituted with the isolated BELL domain (BELL BLH3  in  Figure 4I ) remained mainly
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
or BHL9) and STM were cloned in-frame into the transient expression vectors pUC-SPYCE and pUC-SPYNE, respectively, through the  Bam HI site ( 31 ), containing either the N- or C-terminal parts of the coding regions of the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP). As controls, green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions with STM and BLH partner proteins were created in the vector pRTΩNotI/AscI ( 32 ). To create NLS-GFP-STM, a synthetic oligonucleotide providing the  virD2  nuclear localization signal (NLS) ( 33 ) was inserted into a  Nco I site at the translation start of the GFP ORF. For transient expression in leek epidermal cells, 50
and used to transform leek epidermal cells at 1100 psi rupture disc bursting pressure using a Biolistic PDS-1000-He apparatus (BioRad) The bombarded tissue was kept in Petri dishes on damp filter paper for 12–16 h in the dark and YFP or GFP fluorescence was visualized using a LEICA  MZFLIII  stereomicroscope. All images were processed using the Adobe Photoshop software (version 7.0) package. Co-immunoprecipitations and western blotting Epitope-tagged proteins were prepared in the EasyXpress protein system (Qiagen), via an 
system based on the T7 promoter. T7 promoter transcription templates of STM partner proteins were obtained via nested PCRs on the  ATH1, BHL3  or  BHL9  constructs in pUC-SPYCE which encodes the HA epitope prior the YFP C-terminal domain. Both the T7 promoter and the 6× His-tag were added to the  STM  coding region via a nested PCR strategy. STM and partner proteins were co-transcribed/translated by mixing size- and quality-checked PCR-amplicons of  STM
non-radioactively via chemiluminescence (ECL PLUS kit; Amersham Biosciences) and documented on Kodak-X-omat AR films. Epidermal proteins after bombardement of leek epidermal cells were isolated in 50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, 1% Triton and size-fractionated by SDS–PAGE. GFP fusion proteins were detected after transfer to Immobilon-P membrane (Millipore) by a mouse monoclonal anti-GFP HRP-conjugated antibody (IgG1; Milteny Biotec 130-091-833). Transgenic plants For overexpression, the protein coding regions of  ATH1 ,  BHL3  or  BHL9  and modified  STM  versions were cloned behind the CaMV 35S promoter in
