ABSTRACT:
of the WRKY25 transcription factor from  Arabidopsis  in plant defense against the bacterial pathogen  Pseudomonas syringae . WRKY25 protein recognizes the TTGACC W-box sequences and its translational fusion with green fluorescent protein is localized to the nucleus.  WRKY25  expression is responsive to general environmental stress. Analysis of stress-induced  WRKY25  in the defense signaling mutants  npr1 ,  sid2 ,  ein2  and  coi1  further indicated that this gene
and displayed increased disease symptom severity as compared to wild-type plants. These  WRKY25 -overexpressing plants also displayed reduced expression of the SA-regulated  PR1  gene after the pathogen infection, despite normal levels of free SA. Conclusion The nuclear localization and sequence-specific DNA-binding activity support that WRKY25 functions as a transcription factor. Based on analysis of both T-DNA insertion mutants and transgenic overexpression lines, stress-induced WRKY25 functions as a negative regulator of SA-mediated defense responses to  P.
RESULTS:
transcription factor, it is likely to be localized in the nucleus. The presence of putative nuclear localization signal predicted by the PSORT II program is consistent with this possibility. To determine the subcellular location of WRKY25, we constructed a GFP protein fusion of WRKY25. The fusion construct, driven by the  Cauliflower mosaic virus  (CaMV) 35S  promoter, was directly bombarded into onion ( Allium cepa ) epidermal cells. As shown in Figure  2 , the transiently expressed WRKY25-GFP fusion protein was localized exclusively to the nucleus. By contrast, GFP was found in both the nucleus and cytoplasm due to its small size (Figure  2 ). Expression of  WRKY25 A possible role for WRKY25 during defense signaling was further investigated by analyzing its expression in  Arabidopsis
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
indicated. Transcripts for  PR1  were detected using a  PR1  fragment generated from PCR amplification using two  PR1 -specific oligonucleotides as primers (5'-TTCTTCCCTCGAAAGCTCAA-3' and 5'-CGTTCACATAATTCCCACGA-3'). Production of recombinant WRKY25 protein and electrophoresis mobility shift assay (EMSA) To generate the WRKY25 recombinant protein, its full-length cDNA was amplified using two gene-specific primers (5'-ATCGAATTCATGGACAATAGCAGAAC-3' and 5'-ATCCTCGAGTGAGGGCATAAACGAAT-3'). The amplified DNA fragment was digested with EcoR1 and Xho1, cloned into the same sites of pET32a (Novagen) and transformed into
with two W boxes separated by 5 nucleotides. Pchn5 and the mutant mPchn5 probes were labeled to specific activities of approximately 10 5  cpm/ng using the Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase I. Sequence-specific DNA binding was assayed with EMSA essentially as described previously [ 12 ]. Binding reactions contained 12 μl nuclear extraction buffer, 5 μg poly(dIdC), 1 μg proteins and 2 ng of labeled double-stranded oligo DNA. DNA and protein complexes were allowed to form at room
10% polyacrylamide gel in 0.5× TBE at 4°C. Subcellular localization Full length  WRKY25  coding sequence was amplified with two gene-specific primers (5'-ATCGAATTCATGGACAATAGCAGAAC-3' and 5'-ATCCCATGGTGGGCATAAACGAATCG-3'). The amplified fragment was digested with EcoR1 and Nco1 and cloned into a GFP vector behind the  CaMV 35S  promoter. The empty GFP plasmid was used as a control. Transient expression of the GFP fusion proteins in onion epidermal cells through particle bombardment of the GFP construct plasmid DNA was performed essentially as described [ 44 ]. Construction of transgenic lines To generate the  35S:WRKY25  construct, the cDNA fragment that contained the full coding sequence and 3' untranslated region of  WRKY25 
[ 45 ]. The seeds were collected from the infiltrated plants and selected in MS medium containing 50 μg/ml kanamycin. Kanamycin-resistant plants were transferred to soil nine days later and grown in a growth chamber. Identification of the  wrky25  T-DNA insertion mutants The T-DNA insertion flanking sequences of the Syngenta  Arabidopsis
