ABSTRACT:
related to animal and fungal myosin class V that are responsible for movement of particular vesicles and organelles. Organelle localization of only one of the 13  Arabidopsis  myosin XI (myosin XI-6; At MYA2), which is found on peroxisomes, has so far been reported. Little information is available concerning the remaining 12 class XI myosins. Results We investigated 6 of the 13 class XI  Arabidopsis  myosins. cDNAs corresponding to the tail
domain, the fluorescently-labeled organelles were motile in most cells. Tail cropping experiments demonstrated that the coiled-coil region was required for specific localization and shorter tail regions were inadequate for targeting. Myosin XI-6 (At MYA2), previously reported to localize to peroxisomes by immunofluorescence, labeled both peroxisomes and vesicles when expressed as a YFP-tail fusion. None of the 6 YFP-myosin tail fusions interacted with chloroplasts, and only one YFP-tail fusion appeared to sometimes co-localize with
RESULTS:
proteins known to localize to these compartments. Previously we had shown that a yeast coxIV transit sequence fused to GFP resulted in specific labeling of mitochondria [ 2 ]. For specific labeling of Golgi bodies, we obtained the  ERD2::GFP  construct that Boevink  et al  [ 22 ] used to describe the remarkable motility of plant Golgi stacks. In order to label perixosomes, we decided to make fusions of a peroxisomal resident enzyme, catalase, which has
PTS1 (Peroxisomal Targeting Signal 1) at the C-terminus [ 23 , 24 ]. We produced N-terminal YFP or DsRed2 fusion genes with At catalase 2. After transient expression, both  YFP::catalase2  and  DsRed2::catalase2  constructs did label peroxisomes in onion cells (Figure  1A ) as well as in tobacco leaves, as expected (Figure  1B, C ). The labeled peroxisomes exhibited motility [see Additional Files  1  and  2 ] similar to that previously observed in  Arabidopsis  plants expressing the PST1 signal fused to GFP [ 5 , 25 ]. Figure 1 YFP::catalase and DsRed2::catalase label peroxisomes .  A)  Transient expression of  YFP::catalase  (yellow) in onion cells 24 h after bombardment. Maximum projection (cell depth =
mesophyll cells, and it is evident that peroxisomes exhibit a greater speed and track length in the non-green epidermal vs. green leaf cells. The difference in average organelle track speed in mesophyll cells exhibited by structures labeled by YFP-myosin XI-6 vs. XI-15 and XI-17 suggests that the
to label these compartments in order to determine whether any myosin XI-labeled compartments corresponded to these 3 organelle types. We expressed either the  catalase::DsRed2  construct for peroxisomes,  coxIV::GFP  [ 2 ] for mitochondria, and  ERD2::GFP  [ 22 ] for Golgi labeling. Figures  7 ,  8 ,  9  show the result of the co-localization experiments for the six studied myosins. Figure 7 Co-localization experiment with YFP::Myosin XI-5-tail and YFP::Myosin XI-6-nocoil against peroxisome, mitochondrial and Golgi markers . Transient expression of  (A)  YFP::Myosin XI-5-tail  or  (B)  YFP::Myosin XI-6-nocoil  in tobacco leaves 48 h after  Agrobacterium  co-infiltration with either peroxisome marker  DsRed2::catalase , or mitochondrial marker  coxIV::GFP , or Golgi marker  ERD2::GFP . All signals are pseudo-colored. Bar = 10 μm. Figure 8 Co-localization experiment with YFP::Myosin XI-8-tail and YFP::Myosin XI-15-tail against peroxisome, mitochondrial and Golgi markers . Transient expression of  (A)  YFP::Myosin XI-8-tail  or  (B)  YFP::Myosin XI-15-tail  in tobacco leaves 48 h after  Agrobacterium  co-infiltration with either peroxisome marker  DsRed2::catalase , or mitochondrial marker  coxIV::GFP , or Golgi marker  ERD2::GFP . All signals are pseudo-colored. Bar = 10 μm. Figure 9 Co-localization experiment with YFP::Myosin XI-16-tail and YFP::Myosin XI-17-tail against peroxisome, mitochondrial and Golgi markers . Transient expression of  (A)  YFP::Myosin XI-16-tail  or  (B)  YFP::Myosin XI-17-tail  in tobacco leaves 48 h after  Agrobacterium  co-infiltration with either peroxisome marker  DsRed2::catalase , or mitochondrial marker  coxIV::GFP , or Golgi marker  ERD2::GFP . All signals are pseudo-colored. Bar = 10 μm. For Myosin XI-6, the "nocoil" construct was expressed rather than the full tail region, because for unknown reasons, the shorter construct produced more consistent labeling. YFP::Myosin XI-6-nocoil (Figure  7B ) co-localized with the peroxisomal catalase::DsRed2 marker but not with the mitochondrial or Golgi body marker. The YFP::Myosin XI-5-tail (Figure  7A ), YFP::Myosin XI-8-tail (Figure  8A ) and YFP::Myosin XI-15-tail (Figure  8B ) do not co-localize with any of the markers. YFP::Myosin XI-16-tail did not co-localize with the peroxisome marker, but slight overlaps were observed with the mitochondrial and Golgi markers (Figure  9A ). We did not detect any conclusive co-localization with any marker for YFP::Myosin XI-17-tail (Figure  9B ), though occasionally there were a few slight overlaps with Golgi stacks. The co-localization of YPF::myosin XI-6-nocoil confirms the finding that this myosin interacts with peroxisomes, as previously reported in studies using anti-MYA2 (XI-6) antibodies in transgenic  Arabidopsis  plants expressing a GFP-tagged peroxisomal targeting signal peptide [ 31 ]. None of the other five myosin constructs tested co-localized with this peroxisome marker. The overlap of the signal of YFP::myosin XI-16-tail with the Golgi and mitochondrial markers is suggestive but not entirely conclusive, because YFP and GFP are difficult to separate due to overlapping excitation peaks. Further studies with additional control fluorescent protein fusions need to be undertaken in order to verify whether YFP::myosin XI-16 interacts with Golgi bodies and mitochondria. Nevertheless, our experiments do show that motile vesicles are reproducibly labeled with myosin YFP-tail fusions. The identity of these vesicles can be further probed in the future through co-localization with proteins and dyes
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
product was cloned into a pCR2.1-TOPO T/A vector (Invitogen), and sequenced. The gene was then amplified with the following primers for allowing a directional cloning into the pENTR/D TOPO vector (Invitrogen): 5'CACCGATCCTTACAAGTATCGTC3' and 5'TTAGATGCTTGGTCTCACG3'. The gene was fused to YFP in the pEarleyGate104 [ 40 ] by LR reaction (Invitrogen). The catalase cDNA was also fused downstream of DsRed2 in the binary pGDR vector [ 41 ] by using the  Kpn I restriction site. Primers containing  Kpn
GFP and YFP. For time lapse series YFP and chlorophyll were both excited at 488 nm and pictures were collected without frame averages. Organelle motility was measured with the ImarisTrack module from the Image Analyzing Software Imaris 5.0 (Bitplane AG, Zurich, Switzerland). Labeled organelles were detected with
