ABSTRACT:
AtCLC-d from Arabidopsis was investigated. AtCLC-d is weakly expressed in various tissues, including the root. When transiently expressed as a GFP fusion in protoplasts, it co-localized with the VHA-a1 subunit of the proton-transporting V-type ATPase in the  trans -Golgi network (TGN). Stable expression in plants showed that it co-localized with the endocytic tracer dye FM4-64 in a brefeldin A-sensitive compartment. Immunogold electron microscopy confirmed the localization of AtCLC-d to the TGN. Disruption of the  AtCLC-d  gene
concanamycin A, a blocker of the V-ATPase, was stronger in the  clcd-1  mutant. These phenotypes could be complemented by overexpression of AtCLC-d in the mutant background. The results suggest that the luminal pH in the  trans -Golgi network is adjusted by AtCLC-d-mediated transport
RESULTS:
60 m m  NaCl. The results are means and SE for triplicate determinations. Similar data were obtained in an independent experiment. AtCLC-d was localized to the trans-Golgi network Transient expression in Arabidopsis protoplasts resulted in localization of an AtCLC-d–GFP fusion in small dots that were distributed throughout the cytoplasm ( Figure 4 ). AtCLC-d did not co-localize with ARA7–mRFP, which localizes to an endosomal compartment (
of Rab-type GTPases and has been implicated in vacuolar trafficking ( Kotzer  et al. , 2004 ). In contrast, AtCLC-d–GFP partially co-localized with the rat sialyl transferase (ST–mRFP;  Figure 4e–h ) that is localized to  trans -Golgi cisternae and the TGN ( Dettmer  et al. , 2006 ;  Saint-Jore  et al. , 2002 ). The Qa SNARE SYP41 has been identified in
and VHA-a1–mRFP. Immunogold labeling of ultra-thin cryosections on root tissue was performed using an anti-GFP antibody to confirm the above results. Transmission electron microscopy revealed consistent staining of tubulovesicular structures close to the  trans  site of the Golgi stacks ( Figure 5a,b ). Gold particles labeled the same structures, which represent the TGN, in VHA-a1–GFP plants ( Figure 5d ), but not in controls not expressing AtCLC-d–GFP ( Figure 5c ). In both cases, no staining was observed on the Golgi itself. The results are consistent with a preferential localization of AtCLC-d in the  trans -Golgi network. Figure 5 Immunogold labeling of ultra-thin root cryosections of plants stably expressing AtCLC-d–GFP. (a, b) Anti-GFP antibodies were detected with silver-enhanced Nanogold. Gold particles accumulated in the TGN region close to the  trans -Golgi cisternae of cortex and epidermal cells of root tips. The trans-Golgi side is marked with (T) and is always shown on the lower side of the Golgi stack (G). (c) No labeling above background was seen in controls not expressing AtCLC-d–GFP. (d) Labeling in plants stably expressing VHA-a1–GFP. Scale bar = 200 nm. Function of AtCLC-d in endosomal compartments Endosomal vesicles aggregate upon treatment with the fungal toxin brefeldin A (BFA), which blocks certain ADP ribosylation factor guanidine nucleotide exchange factors (ARF-GEFs) involved in membrane trafficking (
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
( Hechenberger  et al. , 1996 ). In this study, the d 86  splice variant was investigated throughout. To obtain the rescue construct AtCLC-d–GFP, the stop codon of the  AtCLC-d  gene was deleted and ligated 5′ in-frame with the GFP(S65T) coding sequence. This sequence was inserted into pPTbar, a derivative of the pPZP212 vector ( Hajdukiewicz  et al. , 1994 ), containing the 35S promoter and an rbcs terminator. The primers used were 5′-GAGTCGACATGTTATCGAATCATCTCCAGA-3′ and 5′-AGGTCGACTCTTATTTGTATAGTTCATCCA-3′. Plasmids were introduced into  Agrobacterium  strain GV3101::pMP90, and plants were transformed using standard procedures. Plants were assayed for GFP fluorescence in the T 1  generation and were then transferred to soil. Homozygous T 2  progeny were used. Marker constructs and microscopy mRFP-tagged constructs were derived from VHA-a1–GFP ( Dettmer  et al. , 2006 ) or N-ST–YFP ( Grebe  et al. , 2003 ) by replacing the XFP sequence by mRFP ( Campbell  et al. , 2002 ). ARA7–mRFP has been described previously by  Takano  et al.  (2005) . For bright-field and differential interference contrast microscopy, a Zeiss Axioplan microscope (Zeiss;  http://www.zeiss.com/ ) equipped with a Diagnostics Spot RT slider camera were used, and
was used (Leica,  http://www.leica.de ). Images were processed in NIH image and Adobe Photoshop. Immunogold labeling was performed on ultra-thin (80–100 nm) thawed Tokuyasu cryosections of formaldehyde-fixed (8%, 2 h) and sucrose-infiltrated (2.1 M) root tips using rabbit anti-GFP serum (1:250, 60 min; Abcam,  http://www.abcam.com ) and silver-enhanced
