ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
and GFP fluorescence (Fig.  8A ). The construct complemented both the resistance and the lesion phenotype in five independent transgenic lines (Fig.  8B ). Using a spinning disk scanning laser confocal microscope, EDR2:HA:eGFP was observed in the endoplasmic reticulum, plasma membrane and in small endosomes in young seedlings (Fig.  8C , upper panels). In young dividing cells, the expression of EDR2 seemed greatly reduced relative to levels observed in more mature cells (Fig.  8C , asterisked cells). In the rosette leaves of mature plants, EDR2:HA:eGFP was localized to the same three subcellular compartments, although to a lesser relative extent to the endoplasmic reticulum. EDR2:HA:eGFP did not co-localize with the mitochondrial dye MitoTracker (Fig.  8D ). Figure 8 EDR2 localizes to multiple subcellular compartments. (A) EDR2:HA:eGFP construct, CH2. Note, the eGFP sequence included the sequence for 10 Ala at the N-terminus (pink
 edr2-6  mutant to disease susceptibility and suppresses the chlorosis and necrosis phenotype. For each genotype, two leaves from 3-week-old plants are shown at 7 dpi with  G. cichoracearum . (C) EDR2:HA:eGFP was localized mainly to the endoplasmic reticulum as shown by the fluorescently-labeled reticulate net-like structure. EDR2:HA:eGFP also localized to the plasma membrane (arrows) and to endosomes (arrowheads). The upper two panels are from cotyledons of 7-day-old seedlings. Young, recently divided cells (asterisk) exhibited reduced EDR2:HA:eGFP fluorescence compared to more mature cells, including stomatal guard cells. The lower two panels are from
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
trypan blue [ 37 ]. Callose staining with aniline blue and the visualization of autofluorescent compounds were described in Adam and Somerville [ 44 ]. Hydrogen peroxide was visualized with 3,3'-diamino benzidine-HCl [ 45 ]. T3 transformants of  edr2-6  containing the pCH2 construct encoding the  EDR:HA:GFP  driven by the  EDR2  promoter were germinated on nutrient agar plants containing Musashige and Skoog salts 4.3 g per L, pH 5.7,1.5% agar, and hygromycin (30 μg per mL) (Sigma, St. Louis, MO). At 1 week after germination, plants expressing GFP were observed under a Leica DMIRE2 spinning disk confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica Microsystems, Inc.). The seedlings were mounted in water and excited with an Argon laser (488 nm) for eGFP visualization. Rosette leaves from 7-week-old plants were also observed. In addition, rosette leaves of 7-week-old EDR2:HA:eGFP expressing plants were stained with 4 μM MitoTracker Red CMXRos (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA) for 90 min. Collected image data sets were subsequently analyzed with the digital image analysis programs Image J (v. 1.30, N.I.H., USA) and Adobe
complementary to the poly-A tail (5'-GGC CAC GCG TCG ACT AGT ACT TTT TTT TTT TTT TTT T-3') and a region about 50 nucleotides before the predicted  EDR2  start codon (5'-CCG TGG GGA AGT TTT GTG-3'). An EDR2:HA:GFP fusion construct under the control of the  EDR2  native promoter was created. A fragment containing 1.4 kb upstream of the predicted translational start of  EDR2  and 2.1 kb  EDR2 :HA cDNA were PCR amplified
TCG GAA C-3' ( EDR2  cDNA with HA tag). The promoter (EDR2):EDR2 cDNA:HA construct was subsequently cloned into the  Kpn I/ Sma I sites of pSK001H to obtain pCH2. The plasmid pSK001H, which contained the gene for eGFP, was derived from pEZR(H)-NL by removing a  Sac I fragment containing the CaMV 35S promoter. Plasmid pZEZR(H)-NL was provided by Dave Ehrhardt (Carnegie Institution, Stanford, CA) [ 54 ]. The plasmid pCH2 was introduced into  edr2-6 
