ABSTRACT:
Background The cyclic nucleotide-gated ion channels (CNGCs) maintain cation homeostasis essential for a wide range of physiological processes in plant cells. However, the precise subcellular locations and trafficking of these membrane proteins are poorly understood. This is further complicated by a general deficiency of information about targeting pathways of membrane proteins in plants. To investigate CNGC trafficking and localization, we have measured  Atcngc5  and  Atcngc10  expression in roots and leaves, analyzed AtCNGC10-GFP fusions transiently expressed in protoplasts, and conducted immunofluorescence labeling of protoplasts and immunoelectron
of high pressure frozen leaves and roots. Results AtCNGC10 mRNA and protein levels were 2.5-fold higher in roots than leaves, while AtCNGC5 mRNA and protein levels were nearly equal in these tissues. The AtCNGC10-EGFP fusion was targeted to the plasma membrane in leaf protoplasts, and lightly labeled several intracellular structures. Immunofluorescence microscopy with affinity purified CNGC-specific antisera indicated that AtCNGC5 and AtCNGC10 are present in the plasma membrane of protoplasts. Immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated that AtCNGC10 was associated with the plasma membrane of mesophyll, palisade parenchyma and epidermal cells of leaves, and the meristem, columella and cap cells of roots. AtCNCG10 was also observed in the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi cisternae and vesicles of 50–150 nm in size. Patch clamp assays of an AtCNGC10-GFP fusion expressed in HEK293 cells measured significant cation currents. Conclusion AtCNGC5 and AtCNGC10 are plasma membrane proteins. We postulate that AtCNGC10 traffics from the endoplasmic reticulum via the Golgi apparatus and associated vesicles to the plasma membrane. The presence of the cation channel, AtCNGC10, in root cap meristem cells, cell plate, and gravity-sensing columella cells, combined with the previously reported antisense phenotypes of decreased gravitropic and cell enlargement responses, suggest roles of AtCNGC10 in modulating cation
RESULTS:
Results and discussion To study the location of CNGCs within the cellular membranes of Arabidopsis, we chose a combination of CNGC-GFP targeting and immunological approaches. Affinity purified, AtCNGC5- and AtCNGC10-specific polyclonal antisera were generated against synthetic peptides derived from the unique sequences of less conserved sub-regions within the CNGC family. The corresponding
As an initial approach for localizing CNGCs within the cell, we employed transient expression of an AtCNGC10-GFP fusion controlled by the 35S CaMV promoter in Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts (Figure  2 ). The AtCNGC10 sequence directed GFP to the plasma membrane, whereas the GFP-alone control was detected uniformly in the cytosol (Figure  2A ). The AtCNGC10-GFP construct also lightly labeled some diffuse as well as several distinct punctate intracellular structures (Figure  2B ). These results suggested that the AtCNGC10 sequence directed the fused GFP through the secretory pathway to the plasma membrane. In another study, some similar structures were also reported to be labeled with AtCNGC3-GFP [ 17 ]. Figure 2 Transient expression reveals AtCNGC10-GFP trafficking to the plasma membrane of Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts using confocal laser scanning microscopy .  (A)  Leaf protoplasts were transfected with the two constructs pBL-35S:AtCNGC10-EGFP (C10-GFP) and pBL-35S:EGFP alone (GFP), and compared with untransfected controls (WT). Images were acquired through laser scanning
) chlorophyll autofluorescence detected using a 650 nm emission filter, or ( rg)  both immunofluorescence and chlorophyll autofluorescence merged. The evidence of AtCNGC10-GFP targeting (Figure  2 ) and immunofluorescence localization of both AtCNGC5 and AtCNGC10 to the plasma membrane in protoplasts (Figure  3 ) prompted us to conduct further experiments using electron microscopy of high pressure frozen leaves to obtain
± standard error. To test for the ability of AtCNGC10 to mediate K +  transport in an independent heterologous system, we transiently expressed AtCNGC10-GFP in HEK293 cells (Figure  9 ). AtCNGC10-GFP distinctly labels the periphery and some endomembrane structures of the HEK293 cell, whereas GFP alone labels the cell somewhat uniformly. Immunoprecipitation assays indicated that the two constructs were expressed and that AtCNGC10 was fused to GFP based on the predicted size on SDS-PAGE. In patch clamp assays, we observed that heterologously expressed AtCNGC10 conducted significant inward K +  currents with the application of dibutyryl cGMP (100 uM) in the extracellular recording solution, demonstrating the
alone in the vector and  (B)  the AtCNGC10-GFP fusion in HEK293 cells and visualized under the fluorescence microscope. HEK cells were fixed with 4% dimethyl-formamide and stained with propidium iodide (red fluorescence). Distinct GFP labeling of peripheral plasma membrane (PM) is marked. Immunoprecipitation of the cells expressing each construct with and without the inducer tetracycline (+/-) TET is shown. The bands corresponding to the GFP alone and AtCNGC10-GFP fusion are labeled. The Fc region of the antiserum used
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
whole 21–28 day-old plants by grinding in liquid nitrogen to a fine powder, then adding 4 vol (w/v) of 1× lysis buffer (50 mM HEPES-pH 7.4, 75 mM NaCl, 40 mM NaF, 10 mM Iodocetamide, 1% IGEPAL, 0.25 mM PMSF, 1 mM Na-orthoVanadate, Calbiochem Protease Inhibitor Cocktail Set IV diluted 1:1000) and mixing well. Samples were kept on ice for 20 minutes with occasional shaking, then centrifuged at 4,000 × g for 20 min at 4°C.
cushion centrifuged for 10 min at 300 × g. The purified protoplasts were removed from the upper layer and counted using a hemacytometer before transfection or immunolabeling. A PCR-amplified copy of the 35S- mGFP5 -Nos cassette from binary vector pCAMBIA1302 was cloned between the HindIII and SacI restriction sites of pBluescript KS(+), and the  mGFP5  coding sequence (between the NcoI and BstEII sites) subsequently replaced with either an  EGFP  fragment or a chimeric  CNGC10-EGFP  fragment to generate constructs pBL(35S: EGFP ) and pBL(35S: CNGC10-EGFP ), respectively. The 35S- mGFP -Nos fragment was amplified using primers 35S/HindIII.F (5'-CAGTT AAGCTT CATGGAGTCAAAGATTCA-3' and Nos/SacI.R (5'-TAGTT GAGCTC CCGATCTAGTAACATAGA-3', while the non-chimeric version of  EGFP  was generated with primers EGFP/NcoI.F (5'-TAGT CCCATGG TGAGCAAGGGCG-AGGA-3') and EGFP/BstEII.R (5'-TACAG GGTCACC TAGCCGAGAGTGATCCCG-3'), and the chimeric version with primers EGFP/NdeI.F (5'-CACCGACTAGT CATATG GTGAGCAAGGGCGAG-3') and EGFP/BstEII.R. To create pBL(35S: CNGC10-EGFP ),  CNGC10  was amplified from the genomic DNA of wild-type seedlings (Col-0 ecotype), using primer pair CNGC10/NcoI.F (5'-TTTCCCATGGTTTTGTTTAGGTTCAAAGATGAAG-3') and CNGC10/NdeI.R (5'-GAGACATATGAGGGTCAGTTGTATGATTGGCGGT-3'). The sequence of the reverse primer modifies the stop codon of  CNGC10  to a His codon (CAT). Ligation of the  Atcngc10  and  EGFP  fragments via their engineered NdeI restriction sites places the  EGFP  coding sequence in-frame with the last exon of  Atcngc10 . Protoplasts were transfected using PEG as described [ 32 ] and incubated at RT under constant darkness in W5 buffer for 18–20 hours prior to examination with an Olympus Fluoview 1000 laser scanning confocal microscope. EGFP was detected
with secondary antibody (1:100, goat anti-rabbit Alexafluor 488, Molecular Probes, Inc.) and incubated for 1 hr. The cells were washed gently in 500 μl 1× PBS and viewed via confocal microscopy using the settings described above for detection of EGFP and chloroplast autofluorescence. For leaf cross sections, leaf explants were placed in an antifreeze/fixative that contained 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde, 20% (v/v), dimethyl sulfoxide, 1% (v/v)Tween
anhydrous acetone for 5 d at -90°C. After slow warming to for -60°C for 3 d, the samples were rinsed in acetone and infiltrated with 25%, 50%, 75% (24 h each), and 100% (4 d) LR-White (EMS, Fort Washington, PA) in acetone, and UV polymerized at 60°C for 3 d or 100% HM20 (4 d) (EMS, Fort Washington, PA) in acetone, and UV polymerized at -60°C for 3 d. Processing of thin sections for immunolabeling was according to [ 33 ] with the anti-CNGC10 antibody being applied for 1.5 h at RT, and the anti-rabbit secondary antibody (10 nm and 15 nm gold, Ted Pella, Inc) for 1.5 hr. Controls were performed by omitting the primary antibody and using pre-immune serum. The sections were viewed in a Philips CM10 microscope (Philips, Hillsboro, OR). AtCNGC10-GFP expression in HEK293 cells, immunoprecipitation and patch clamp assays The full-length AtCNGC10 cDNA was fused to EGFP in the HindIII-EcoRI sites of pEGFP-N1 to create pNC10kozG (kanamycin resistance in bacteria and neomicin resistance in HEK cells) and fused to EGFP and the FLAG epitope in the AflII-XhoI sites of pcDNA5-T/O to create pTGC10F (ampicillin resistance in bacteria and hygromicin resistance in HEK cells). HEK293 cells were grown in 10 cm petri dishes to 60% confluence and transfected with 20
at 20× and 40× magnification on an Olympus IX70 fluorescence microscope. For immunoprecipitation, cells were harvested and lysed in 1× IP buffer (50 mM HEPES-pH 7.4, 75 mM NaCl, 40 mM NaF, 10 mM Iodocetamide, 1% IGEPAL, 0.25 mM PMSF, 1 mM Na-orthoVanadate, Calbiochem Protease Inhibitor Cocktail Set IV diluted 1:1000) for 30 min on ice. Anti-flag monoclonal antibody (2 μg) (Sigma) was added to the supernatant and gently rotated 2 h at 4°C. Antibody bound
