ABSTRACT:
the aldehyde chemical grouping (i.e. H-C=O) to its corresponding alcohol could be crucial in maintaining plant health. Recently, recombinant expression of a cytosolic enzyme from  Arabidopsis thaliana  (L.) Heynh (designated as glyoxylate reductase 1 or  At GR1) revealed that it effectively catalyses the  in vitro  reduction of both glyoxylate and succinic semialdehyde (SSA). In this paper, web-based
RESULTS:
As shown in  Fig. 4A, B  the diffuse fluorescence pattern attributable to transiently-expressed GR1-GFP was similar to the fluorescence attributable to co-expressed RFP which lacks any inherent subcellular targeting information, indicating that GR1-GFP was localized throughout the cytosol. On the other hand, transient expression of GR2-GFP revealed that this fusion protein displayed a punctate and tubular-like fluorescence pattern that was similar to the fluorescence pattern attributable to endogenous NAGK ( Fig. 4D ), a well-characterized plastid stromal enzyme ( Chen  et al. , 2006 ). The co-localization between GR2-GFP and NAGK was also evident by the yellow colour in the merged image ( Fig. 4E ), indicating that GR2 is localized to plastids. Fig. 4. Localization of GR1-GFP and GR2-GFP in transformed BY-2 cells. Images represent the localization of transiently-expressed or endogenous proteins in (co-) transformed (via biolistic bombardment) cells including (A) GR1-GFP and (B) RFP, (C) GR2-GFP and (D) NAGK, (F)
GR2 1–45-GFP consisting of the N-terminal 45 amino acids of GR2 fused to GFP displayed a punctate and tubular-like fluorescence pattern that, similar to GR2-GFP (compare with  Fig. 4C ), co-localized with the fluorescence pattern attributable to endogenous plastidial NAGK. Deletion of the N-terminal 2–45 amino acids from GR2, however, resulted in the fusion protein (GR2 Δ2–45-GFP) localizing throughout the cytosol ( Fig. 4I ) and not to plastids, as shown by the lack of co-localization of GR2 Δ2–45 with endogenous NAGK ( Fig. 4J ). Overall, these data indicate that the N-terminal 45 amino acid
compartments. Digitonin, however, permeabilizes only the plasma membrane ( Lee  et al. , 1997 ), allowing for the immunodetection of cytosolic, but not intraorganellar epitopes. As illustrated in  Fig. 5A and B , the fluorescence attributable to GR2-GFP was visible in both triton X-100- and digitonin-permeabilized cells due to the intrinsic fluorescence of the GFP moiety. However, when antibodies
that, while endogenous NAGK was immunodetected in the same GR2-GFP transformed cells permeabilized with triton X-100, the endogenous stromal protein was not immunodetected in digitonin-permeabilized cells ( Fig. 5A ).  Figures 5A and B  also indicate that cytosolic tubulin was immunodetected in both triton X-100- and digitonin-permeabilized GR2-GFP-transformed cells as expected. Taken together, these data indicate that GR2, like NAGK, is localized within the plastid of BY-2 cells, presumably in the stroma. Fig. 5. Localization of GR2-GFP in differentially-permeabilized BY-2 cells. Images shown represent individual GR2-GFP-transformed cells that were fixed and permeabilized with either triton X-100 (top rows) or digitonin (bottom rows) and then
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
and pCR2.1/ GR2 . Next, pCR2.1/ GR1  and pCR2.1/ GR2  were digested with  Nco I and  Nhe I, respectively, and the resulting fragments were subsequently gel-purified and ligated into either  Nco I-digested pUC18/ Nco I-GFP (green fluorescent protein) or  Nhe I-digested pUC18/ Nhe I-GFP, pUC18/ GR1 -GFP and pUC18/ GR2 -GFP. pUC18/ Nco I-GFP is a plant expression vector that includes the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter and the GFP ORF immediately downstream from a unique in-frame  Nco I site ( Chiu  et al. , 1996 ). pUC18/ Nhe I-GFP is a modified version of pUC18/ Nco I-GFP in which sequences corresponding to the  Nco I site were altered (via PCR site-directed mutagenesis) to a  Nhe I site. pUC18/ GR2  1-45-GFP was constructed by amplifying sequences in the  GR2  ORF that encoded for the protein's N-terminal 45 amino acid residues, including the predicted plastid targeting sequence (see  Supplementary Fig. S1  at  JXB  online). pUC18/ GR2  Δ2–45-GFP was constructed by amplifying the  GR2  ORF, but without the protein's N-terminal 2-44 amino acid residues. Both amplicons were generated using PCR along with pET15bGR2 as template DNA and the appropriate forward and reverse mutagenic primers that introduced 5′ and 3′  Nhe I sites. For pUC18/ GR2  Δ2–45-GFP, the forward mutagenic primer also introduced sequences coding for an initiation (methionine) codon. The amplicon corresponding to GR2 lacking its N-terminal 2-44 amino acid residues was subcloned into the pCR2.1 vector, followed by digestion with  Nhe I and ligation into  Nhe I-digested pUC18/ Nhe I-GFP, yielding pUC18/ GR2  Δ2-45-GFP. Similarly, the PCR product consisting of the N-terminal 45 amino acids of GR2 was digested with  Nhe I and ligated directly into  Nhe I-digested pUC18/ Nhe I-GFP, yielding pUC18/ GR2  1–45-GFP. Construction of pRTL2/MCS-RFP-stop, encoding the full-length red fluorescent protein (RFP) and convenient 5′ multiple cloning sites has been described elsewhere ( Shockey  et al. , 2006 ). Tobacco ( Nicotiana tabacum  L. cv. BY-2) suspension-cultured cells were maintained and prepared
and secondary antibodies. Antibodies and sources were as follows: mouse anti-tubulin IgGs (Sigma-Aldrich Inc.); rabbit anti-N-acetyl glutamate kinase (NAGK) (kindly provided by Dr Greg Moorehead at the University of Calgary;  Chen  et al. , 2006 ); rabbit anti-GFP IgGs (Molecular Probes, Burlington, ON, Canada); goat anti-rabbit rhodamine red-X IgGs (Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories, West Grove, PA, USA); goat anti-rabbit Cy3 (Cedar Lane Laboratories, Burlington, ON, Canada); and goat anti-mouse Alexa 350 (Molecular Probes). Epifluorescent images of BY-2 cells were acquired using a Zeiss Axioscope 2 MOT epifluorescence microscope (Carl Zeiss Inc., Thornwood, NY, USA) with
