ABSTRACT:
of myosin XI, revealing a close relationship with the transport of peroxisomes, mitochondria, and Golgi-vesicles. Links between myosin heads and F-actin-based motility have been less investigated. To address this function, we performed localization studies using the head-neck domain of AtMYA2, a myosin XI from  Arabidopsis . Results We expressed the GFP-fused head-neck domain
in organelle trafficking. The fact that organelle streaming was reduced in cells expressing the GFP-MYA2-head6IQ indicated that the functionless motor protein inhibits endogenous myosins. Furthermore, co-expression of the GFP-MYA2-head6IQ with other F-actin markers disrupted its attachment to F-actin. In nuclei, the GFP-myosin associated with short bundles of F-actin. Conclusion The localization of the head of MYA2 in living plant cells, as investigated here for the first time, suggests a close linkage between this myosin XI and cytoplasmic microfilaments that support the rapid streaming of organelles such as peroxisomes. Potential roles of MYA2 may also exist in the cell nucleus. Whether the low quality of the F-actin-labeling by MYA2-head6IQ compared to other F-actin-binding proteins (ABPs) signifies a weak association of the myosin with actin filaments remains to be proven by other means than  in vivo . Clues for
RESULTS:
 (Fig.  5J–L ), F-actin decoration by this construct revealed a filamentous network extending towards the cell cortex with cables running through longitudinally and nucleus-oriented cytoplasmic strands. Figure 1 Diagrams of AtMYA2 and its head-neck domain fused with GFP . (A) The myosin heavy chain of AtMYA2 (175 kD) consists of the catalytic motor domain containing F-actin-binding capacity, the neck domain with 6 IQ
I) F-actin-visualization by GFP-MYA2-head6IQ. For comparison, F-actin is visualized by RFP-FABD2 (D, H, J) and GFP-FABD2 (E) or by YFP-mTn (F). The panels in (G) and (H) show the distribution of F-actin in cells at three different depths. The nuclear localization of GFP-MYA2-head6IQ and RFP-FABD2 signals is shown in panels (I) and (J). Images in (I*, J*) and (I**, J**) derive from optical sections through the center of the cell nucleus and its periphery, respectively. Expression times were 6–7 h for (A)
derives from a plane 5 μm below. Bar for images in (A-F) in (F) = 5 μm, for images in (G-L) in (L) = 10 μm. Figure 5 F-actin-binding of GFP-MYA2-head6IQ and RFP-FABD2 in respect to microfilament subpopulations and peroxisome pathways in different plant cells . (A-I) Co-expression of fusion proteins in  A. cepa:  GFP-MYA2-head6IQ (A) with RFP-FABD2 (B), YFP-mTn (D) with RFP-FABD2 (E) and GFP-MYA2-head6IQ (G) with a peroxisomal marker fused with mcherry (H). Merged images
25 h (Fig.  4D, E ), and only disappeared at 2 d after transformation due to the normal decay in cellular viability (Fig.  4F ). The F-actin reporter RFP-FABD2 also produced different filamentous patterns near nuclei. The GFP-MYA2-head6IQ marked highly fluorescent short bundles in nuclei (Fig.  3I ) or, occasionally, fluorescent patches in or close to nuclei (Fig.  3I*/I** ); these were absent in cells expressing RFP-FABD2 (Fig.  3J ). Generally, RFP- and GFP-FABD2-labeled actin filaments appeared at various cellular sites: as microfilaments extending from the cell cortex towards the plasma membrane and as microfilaments running through cytoplasmic strands (Fig.  3E , see also Fig.  5M ). Microfilaments labeled by GFP-MYA2-head6IQ were found only in the more internal regions of cells. This was noted when the plane of the
the MYA2-decorated actin filaments reflect the main pathways of cytoplasmic movements. To address this, we focused on the cytoplasmic strands with the most vigorous streaming of organelles and compared their distribution with the GFP-MYA2-head6IQ signal distribution. We also examined peroxisome targeting in cells by co-bombardment of a peroxisomal marker and the GFP-MYA2-head6IQ or RFP-FABD2 fusions (Fig.  5J–M ). The most vigorous movement of organelles was observed in longitudinal and nucleus-oriented strands that, along with the actin cables, occupied the more internal (cytoplasmic) regions of the cell. Thus, peroxisome highways appeared to coincide with the thicker, more longitudinal filaments labeled by the GFP-MYA2-head6IQ (Fig.  5J–L ) or RFP-FABD2 (Fig.  5M ). The apparent elongated shape of a peroxisome that co-distributes with the myosin-labeled strand in the center of Fig.  5H  indicates that the organelle was moving rapidly during
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Methods Constructs The coding region of  AtMYA2  [TAIR:At5G43900] [ 66 ] (Fig.  1A ) was amplified from cDNA obtained from Arabidopsis (Columbia) leaves via RT-PCR. Using the GFP-FABD2 vector [ 41 ], a derivative of pCAT-GFPm3 [ 68 ], we prepared an N-terminal GFP-fusion with the motor head of  AtMYA2  including the neck domain (MYA2-head6IQ, amino acid residues 1–889, Fig.  1B ) for transient expression of proteins. The PCR primers used for the MYA2-head6IQ construct were 5'-AT AGATCT TATGGTTGCTAACTTCAATCCAT as the forward primer and 5'- AT ACTAGT TTGGCTGCTTGGAGTGCTCCAGTTTCTCTA as the reverse primer. The PCR products were cut with the respective enzymes  Bgl II and  Spe I (as underlined) and ligated into the pCAT-GFPm3 vector via the  Bam HI and  Spe I sites. The same vector containing the 35S promoter was also used for expression of GFP alone. For protein expression in cells of  N. benthamiana , the expression cassette of pCAT-GFPm3 containing GFP-MYA2-head6IQ was cut with  Hind III and the fragment of 4.6 kb was ligated with the binary expression vector pBIN20 also cut with  Hind III. The recombinant genes were verified by sequencing. In addition to a pCAT construct containing GFP alone, we used GFP-FABD2 [ 41 ] and RFP-FABD2 (a kind gift of P. Nick, unpublished; cloned according to RFP-Arp3 into the transient 35S-p2RGW7 Gateway vector from Invitrogen) and a vector containing a 35S-YFP-mTn expression cassette [ 69 ] for the visualization of F-actin. For peroxisomal localization, we used RFP and CFP fusions with the type 1 peroxisome targeting
of protein dissociation or competition assays. For infiltration of tobacco leaves with Agrobacteria the abaxial surface of  Nicotiana benthamiana  leaves was infiltrated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens harboring the binary plasmid vector pBIN20 which contained the expression cassette of pCAT-GFP or pCAT-GFP-MYA2-head6IQ. Higher peaks of protein expression were achieved by the simultaneous infiltration of 35S-P19 in pBin61 [ 71 ] proven to reduce gene silencing after infection with Agrobacteria. Images from leaf epidermis were taken after 5 d growth at 23°C,
by boiling for 5 min at a 1:1.5 (w/v) ratio in the following SDS-buffer: 65 mM Tris/HCl pH 7.5, 4 M urea, 3–5% SDS, 10% beta-mercaptoethanol, 15% glycerol and 0.05% bromphenol blue. Aliquots of 25 μl protein extract for GFP-MYA2-head6IQ and 10 μl for GFP alone were subjected to SDS-PAGE followed by electroblotting onto nitrocellulose membranes and immunoblot analysis. Primary anti-GFP antibody (from rabbit; Acris) was used for detection of the GFP-fusion and anti-rabbit alkaline phosphatase-conjugated antibody (Calbiochem) was used as secondary antibody. A broad range (6–175 kD) prestained
addition, the limit for exposure to the RFP excitation was tested in a cell that expressed YFP-mTn alone (the limit was 1.0 sec). During co-expression experiments, RFP was excited for shorter times. Due to the diffusive tendency of the GFP-MYA2-head6IQ, exposure times between 300 and 700 msec were used for widefield fluorescence microscopy proving to be a fast and appropriate method for studying its distribution. Images were processed with Adobe Photoshop 5.5. Images in Fig.  3(A,D)  represent
