ABSTRACT:
Six genes encode proteins with acyl-CoA-binding domains in  Arabidopsis thaliana . They are the small 10-kDa cytosolic  a cyl- C oA- b inding  p rotein (ACBP), membrane-associated ACBP1 and ACBP2, extracellularly-targeted ACBP3, and kelch-motif containing ACBP4 and ACBP5. Here, the interaction of ACBP4 with an  A. thaliana  ethylene-responsive element binding protein (AtEBP), identified in a yeast two-hybrid screen, was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation. The subcellular localization of ACBP4 and AtEBP, was addressed using an ACBP4:DsRed red fluorescent protein fusion and a green fluorescent protein (GFP):AtEBP fusion. Transient expression of these autofluoresence-tagged proteins in agroinfiltrated tobacco leaves, followed by confocal laser scanning microscopy, indicated their co-localization predominantly at the cytosol which was confirmed by FRET analysis. Immuno-electron microscopy on  Arabidopsis  sections not only localized ACBP4 to the cytosol but also to the periphery of the nucleus upon closer examination, perhaps as a result of its interaction with AtEBP. Furthermore, the expression of  ACBP4  and  AtEBP  in Northern blot analyses was induced by the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid, methyl jasmonate treatments, and
RESULTS:
GFP:AtEBP, observations were carried out by confocal microscopy using a green filter to investigate the fluorescence pattern of GFP and a red filter to visualize the fluorescence of DsRed ( Fig. 2 ). GFP:AtEBP was located mainly in the nucleus, with some signals at the cytosol and the plasma membrane ( Fig. 2A ). ACBP4:DsRed was localized predominantly to the cytosol, inclusive of signals detected in the cytosol surrounding the nucleus ( Fig. 2B ). Signals of both fusion proteins were common to the cytosol. Fig. 2. Confocal images indicating co-localization of ACBP4:DsRed and GFP:AtEBP fusion proteins transiently-expressed in tobacco leaves. Representative tobacco leaf epidermal cells are shown by laser-scanning confocal microscopy following agroinfiltration of plasmid pAT282 or pAT225. (A) GFP:AtEBP expressed from pAT225
image of D-F; (D) green channel shows GFP:AtEBP; (E) red channel shows FRET signal of ACBP4:DsRed; (F) co-localization of two signals is indicated by a yellow colour in merged images of (D) and (E). Arrowheads indicate the position of nuclei. Bar=20 μm. In FRET analysis, in cells co-expressing GFP:AtEBP and ACBP4:DsRed, not only GFP:AtEBP green fluorescence ( Fig. 2D ) but also ACBP4:DsRed red fluorescence ( Fig. 2E ), which overlapped with the GFP signals ( Fig. 2F ),
Immuno-electron microscopy was carried out using transverse sections of leaves of 2-week-old  Arabidopsis  germinated and grown in MS medium under a 16/8 h light/dark regime. Although immuno-gold labelling with the anti-ACBP4 antibodies was mostly evident in the cytosol, some signals were detected at the periphery of the nucleus, ( Fig. 3B, C ). In the control, when
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
study were derivatives of plasmids pGDG and pGDR which contain genes encoding the autofluorescent proteins GFP and DsRed, respectively ( Goodin  et al. , 2002 ). The 2 kb  Xho I- Bam HI fragment encoding the complete ACBP4 peptide was generated by PCR using primers ML350 and ML682 with pAT181 as template, and
Xho I and  Bam HI sites of pGD-DsRed to obtain pAT282 in which  ACBP4  is fused to 5′ of  DsRed . The plasmid pAT225 in which  AtEBP  is fused to 3′ of  GFP  has been previously described ( Li and Chye, 2004 ). The cloning junctions in all constructs were confirmed by nucleotide sequence analysis. Transient expression by agroinfiltration Tobacco ( Nicotiana tabacum
resulting images for each transient expression. For each plasmid construct, 10–15 cells were imaged with similar results. GFP fluorescence was excited at 488 nm, filtered through a primary dichroic (UV/488/543), a secondary dichroic of 545 nm, and subsequently through BP505–530 nm emission filters to the photomultiplier tube (PMT) detector. DsRed fluorescence was excited at 543 nm, the emission was passed through similar primary and secondary dichroic mirrors and finally through a BP560–615 nm emission filter to the PMT detector. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) pairs GFP/DsRed were analysed using a confocal laser-scanning microscope (Zeiss LSM510 META). FRET measurements of DsRed emission with zero contribution from GFP, was accomplished as described by  Erickson  et al.  (2003)  using the following settings: excitation at 488 nm and emission filters, BP 505–530 nm for GFP and BP 600–637 nm for DsRed. Western blot analysis Protein extracts were prepared by homogenizing  Arabidopsis  protein from 3-week-old wild-type (Col-0)  Arabidopsis  rosettes according to  Chye  et al.  (1999) . Total proteins
