ABSTRACT:
nitrogen sink in flowers to ensure pollen viability. Since pollen cells are symplasmically isolated during maturation and germination, membrane transporters are required for nitrogen import across the pollen plasma membrane. This study describes the characterization of the ammonium transporter AtAMT1;4, a so far uncharacterized member of the Arabidopsis AMT1 family, which is suggested to be involved in transporting ammonium into pollen. The  AtAMT1;4  gene encodes a functional
RESULTS:
Two AtAMT1;4-specific bands were observed with an apparent molecular mass of approximately 40 and 80 kDa. Although the predicted molecular weight of the AtAMT1;4 protein is approximately 53.7 kDa, the 40 kDa band is supposed to correspond to the monomer, since lipophilic membrane proteins usually migrate at a lower apparent molecular mass (Sauer and Stadler  1993 ). The 80 kDa band probably represents the dimer of AtAMT1;4 or a stable complex with another unknown protein.  Fig. 2. Overexpression of AtAMT1;4 in a
(B) Protein gel blot analysis of microsomal membrane fractions from roots of the same plants as in (A) using an antibody directed against 15 amino acids from the C-terminus of AtAMT1;4 (anti-AtAMT1;4). Numbers at the right border indicate molecular mass (kDa). Protein levels of DET3 served as a loading control. (C) Microsomal fractions (M) from shoots of  qko-35S:AtAMT1;4  transgenic plants ( H3a ) were separated by aqueous two-phase partitioning into a plasma membrane-enriched upper phase (U) and
 AtAMT1;4  was detected exclusively in flowers. Furthermore, using the AtAMT1;4-specific antibody, AtAMT1;4 protein was also exclusively detected in the microsomal membrane fractions of flower tissue ( Fig. 5 B). There, the AtAMT1;4 protein appeared at a molecular mass of approximately 80 kDa. In contrast to the overexpressed AtAMT1;4 protein in transgenic roots and shoots of  qko  ( Fig. 2
flowers (Fl) and siliques (Si) were obtained from 6-week-old plants grown in soil. (B) Protein gel blot analysis of microsomal membrane fractions from the same tissue as in (A) using anti-AtAMT1;4 antibody. Numbers at the left border indicate molecular mass (kDa). The AtAMT1;4-specific signal was detected at approximately 80 kDa. (C) Fluorescence microscopy of stamen (left) and pollinated stigmata (right) of
contrast to the AtAMT1;4–GFP fusion protein, soluble GFP produced fluorescence throughout the whole body of the pollen grain ( Fig. 6 C) or pollen tube ( Fig. 6 D). These observations indicated that the AtAMT1;4 protein localizes to the plasma membrane of pollen grains and pollen tubes.  Fig. 6. AtAMT1;4 localizes to the plasma membrane of pollen grains and pollen tubes. Fluorescence microscopy of (A) a mature pollen grain and (B) a pollen tube of transgenic plants expressing the  AtAMT1;4-promoter:ORF:GFP  construct or (C and D) expressing the  AtAMT1;4-promoter:GFP  construct. GFP
served as loading control. The plants were grown in soil for 6 weeks. (C) Protein gel blot analysis of microsomal membrane fractions from the same tissues as in (B) using anti-AtAMT1;4 antibody. Numbers at the right border indicate molecular mass (kDa). The AtAMT1;4-specific signal was detected at approximately 80 kDa. (D) In vitro pollen germination assay of  atamt1;4-6  and
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
 2;1  (Yuan et al.  2007a ) was transformed by  Agrobacterium , and transformants were selected via hygromycin resistance. Homozygous T 2  lines were further selected by segregation analysis. Generation of transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing AtAMT1;4-promoter:GFP and AtAMT1;4-promoter:ORF:GFP constructs The 1,935 bp promoter region upstream of the start codon of  AtAMT1;4  was amplified by PCR from genomic DNA ( A. thaliana  Col-0) using the specific primers AMT1;4-pro- Bam HI, CGGATCCCCAGACGTTTTGTGAGATGGTAAGAATGTG; and AMT1;4-pro- Nco I, GCCATGGTGTTGCAAAGATTAAGAGAGATTTTGTGAG, and then cloned into the PCR-Blunt II-TOPO vector (Invitrogen, San Diego, CA, USA). The  Bam HI– Nco I fragment was subcloned into the plant transformation vector pBI101 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA) upstream of the  EGFP  coding sequence, resulting in the plasmid  AtAMT1;4-promoter:GFP . The fragment of the  AtAMT1;4  promoter was inserted in front of the  AtAMT1;4  ORF sequence in pGEM-T, and then the  AtAMT1;4 promoter:ORF  fragment was subcloned into the binary vector pTKan derived from pPZP212 (kindly provided by Karin Schumacher, ZMBP, Tübingen, Germany) at the  Bsp 120I restriction site. The ORF of  AtAMT1;4  was amplified without a stop codon by PCR, ligated to the  EGFP  coding sequence, and this fragment was introduced into the plasmid  AtAMT1;4-promoter:ORF -pTKan using the  Pst I restriction site and yielding the plasmid  AtAMT1;4-promoter:ORF:GFP . Arabidopsis Col-0 transformed with both of these constructs by  Agrobacterium  were selected via kanamycin resistance, and homozygous T 2  lines were further selected by segregation analysis. The fluorescence of GFP in the transgenic plants was
sole nitrogen source, and a final wash in 1 mM CaSO 4  solution. Roots were harvested and stored at –70°C before freeze-drying. Samples were ground and approximately 1.6 mg of powder was used for  15 N determination by isotope mass spectrometry (Thermo-Finnigan, Bremen, Germany). Isolation of insertion lines for AtAMT1;4 Information about T-DNA and transposon mutants for the  AtAMT1;4  gene was obtained from the SIGnAL database (Alonso et al.  2003 ). The  atamt1;4-1  (SAIL_912_E05), 
