ABSTRACT:
protein localisation patterns revealed a few deviations from known mRNA expression patterns, suggesting a non-cell autonomous action of these factors or alternative control mechanisms. In addition, we observed a change in the subcellular localisation of SEPALLATA3 from a predominantly nuclear localisation to a more cytoplasmic localisation, occurring specifically during petal and stamen development. Furthermore, we show that the down-regulation of the homeodomain transcription factor  WUSCHEL  in ovular tissues is preceded by the occurrence of both AGAMOUS and
RESULTS:
in the Col-0 wild type background. SEP3 localisation in inflorescence meristem and early flower bud stages In the inflorescence meristem, SEP3:GFP plants had a very low but definite signal in the epidermal layer that was located mostly in the nucleus (Figures  1A–C ). During the initiation of the floral primordia and flower bud stages 1 and 2 this epidermal
stage 2 flower buds also showed a few cells in the subepidermal and inner cell layers in the centre of the floral meristem that started to have a much higher level of SEP3:GFP signal, also located mostly in the nucleus (Figure  1C ). During the development towards stage 3 flower buds this signal spread out to encompass the whole dome of the floral meristem from which the second, third and fourth
of SEP3:GFP localisation in inflorescence meristem and early flower bud stages . (A) Overview of an inflorescence with the inflorescence meristem and early flower bud stages 1 to 5 indicated. SEP3:GFP protein is detected as green signal and cell membranes are stained with the red dye FM4-64. (B) Detail of an inflorescence meristem and a stage 2 flower bud. (C) Section through tissue in (B) showing the SEP3:GFP signal in the epidermis and the beginning SEP3:GFP signal in the
of a stage 4 flower bud showing the highest SEP3:GFP signal in the entire floral meristem and only in the epidermis of the four sepals. (E) Section through the stage 4 flower bud in (D) showing both cytoplasmic and nuclear localisation of SEP3:GFP in the future second and third whorl, and only nuclear localisation in the innermost part of the floral meristem. (F) More basal section through the stage 4 flower bud in (D) showing again both cytoplasmic and nuclear localisation of SEP3:GFP in the future second and third whorl. (G) Detail of a stage 5 flower bud showing the initiating petal and stamen primordia. (H) Section through the stage 5 flower bud in (G) illustrating that the SEP3:GFP signal in whorl 4 is mostly nuclear, while the reduced signal in the initiating petal and stamen primordia is both cytoplasmically and nuclear localised. (I) More basal section through the stage 5 flower bud in (G) showing the SEP3:GFP signal at the adaxial and abaxial sides of a sepal. (1–5) flower bud stages; (ab) abaxial; (ad) adaxial; (FM) floral meristem; (IM) inflorescence
and of (B-I) 25 μm. Interestingly, the subcellular localisation of the SEP3:GFP protein changed dramatically from stage 3 onwards. Just before the petal and stamen initiation, SEP3:GFP proteins in the future second and third whorl became both cytoplasmically and nuclear localised. At the same time, the proteins in the innermost part of the floral meristem clearly remained nuclear localised (Figures  1E  and  1F ). This cytoplasmic SEP3:GFP signal in the second and third whorl could be due to higher expression levels of the gene, resulting in a temporary accumulation of SEP3:GFP proteins in the cytoplasm waiting for transportation to the nucleus. Another option could be that the appearance of new interaction partners in this region results in the cytoplasmic localisation of SEP3:GFP. For instance, it is known that the expression of  AP3 , which determines petal and stamen identity
also allow the proteins to meet new partners and form new complexes in the cytoplasm, for instance with AP3 and PI. In stage 5 flower buds, the initiating petal and stamen primordia revealed an epidermal layer with mostly nuclear SEP3:GFP, while the subepidermal and inner cell layers showed a lower SEP3:GFP signal, both cytoplasmically and nuclear localised (Figures  1G–I ). Apparently, SEP3 is less needed in the inner layers of the emerging petals and stamen than in the epidermis. In the mean time the SEP3:GFP proteins in the fourth whorl remained nuclear localised (Figure  1H ). AG localisation in inflorescence meristem and early flower bud stages The AG:GFP signal appeared in a cluster of subepidermal and inner layer cells in very early stage 3 flower buds, at the time when
of stage 3 flower buds and continues in whorl 3 and 4 in later stages [ 34 , 35 ]. During all the early stages of flower bud development the AG:GFP protein seemed to be primarily localised in the nucleus, but a substantial part of the signal was also localised in the cytoplasm (Figure  2C ). In a stage 5 flower bud, AG:GFP was present throughout all cell layers of the developing stamen primordia and in the region
of AG:GFP localisation in inflorescence meristem and early flower bud stages . (A) Overview of an inflorescence with the inflorescence meristem and early flower bud stages 2 to 6 indicated. AG:GFP protein is detected as green signal and cell membranes are stained with the red dye FM4-64. (B) Detail of a stage 4 flower bud showing AG:GFP signal in the future third and fourth whorl. (C) Section through the stage 4 flower bud in (B) showing that AG:GFP is located in both the cytoplasm and the nuclei. (D) Detail of the stage 5 flower bud in (A) showing AG:GFP signal in the developing stamen and in whorl 4. (2–6) flower bud stages; (FM) floral meristem; (IM) inflorescence meristem; (p) petal; (s) sepal; (st) stamen; (w4) whorl
25 μm. FUL localisation in inflorescence meristem and early flower bud stages In the inflorescence meristem, FUL:GFP plants exhibited a very high fluorescence signal throughout all cell layers (Figure  3A ). This signal was mostly located in the nucleus, but also in the cytoplasm (Figure  3B ). As soon as the flower bud primordia were initiated the FUL:GFP signal started to reduce in the subepidermal and inner cell layers (Figure  3B ), while in the centre
of FUL:GFP localisation in inflorescence meristem and early flower bud stages . (A) Overview of an inflorescence with the inflorescence meristem and early flower bud stages 2 to 7 indicated. FUL:GFP protein is detected as green signal and cell membranes are stained with the red dye FM4-64. (B) Section through an inflorescence meristem showing high FUL:GFP signal in all layers, while stage 1 and 2 flower bud primordia have reduced signal. (C) Detail of a stage 3 flower bud
 4B ). From flower bud stages 1 to 3 the AP1 fusion protein was found throughout all cell layers and was located predominantly in the nucleus (Figure  4C ). In flower bud stages 4 and 5, the AP1:GFP protein in the sepals was most abundant in the apical tips (Figures  4A  and  4D ). The signal diminished in the third and
the inflorescence meristem in (A) showing that the AP1:GFP signal starts in a few cells in stage 1 flower buds and spreads to all cell layers in flower bud stage 2 and 3. The asterisk denotes AP1:GFP signal in nuclei of the adjacent stage 2 flower bud projecting through the overlying inflorescence meristem tissue. (C) Detail of a late stage 3 flower bud showing AP1:GFP signal in all cell layers of the four sepals and the floral meristem. (D)
1I ), suggesting that SEP3 could play a role in the adaxial/abaxial patterning of both organs. Figure 5 Confocal microscopic analysis of SEP:GFP during petal development . (A) SEP3:GFP signal at the adaxial side of a stage 11 petal. Nuclei with SEP3:GFP proteins are visible as bright green spots against the green autofluorescent background of the petal. (B) Cross section through a petal of approximately stage 10 showing higher SEP3:GFP signal in the adaxial epidermis than the abaxial epidermis. Cell membranes are stained with the red dye FM4-64. (C) SEP3:GFP signal at the abaxial side of a stage 11 petal. The images in (A) and (B) are each composed of two separate, overlapping projections. (ab) abaxial side; (ad) adaxial side;
a stage 12 pistil, with the highest signal in the valves and the replum, and lower signal in the valve margins and the basal half of the style. The image is composed of three separate, overlapping projections. Nuclei with FUL:GFP proteins are visible as bright green spots against the green autofluorescent background of the pistil. (B) SEP3:GFP localisation in the apical part of a stage 12 pistil with the highest signal in the valve margins and replum,
 pWUS:GUS  during ovule development . Confocal microscopic analysis of SEP3:GFP localisation (A, D, and G) and AG:GFP localisation (B, E, and H) during ovule development. GFP tagged MADS domain proteins are detected as green signal and cell membranes are stained with the red dye FM4-64. DIC microscopy of  pWUS:GUS  expression in developing ovules (C, F, and I) where GUS activity is detected as a blue colour. (A) SEP3:GFP signal in the nucellus, chalaza, and funiculus
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Methods Arabidopsis thaliana  plants All plants were grown at 22°C in growth chambers under a long-day light regime (16 h light/8 h dark). The construction of transgenic lines expressing g AG:GFP , g FUL:GFP  and g SEP3:GFP  was previously described [ 29 ]. The  AG  genomic clone has a promoter region of approximately 2.6 kb upstream from the translational start, the  FUL  genomic clone has a promoter region of approximately 2 kb and the  SEP3  clone has a promoter region of approximately 1.5 kb. To make the translational g AP1 : GFP  fusion construct, a genomic clone fragment of  AP1  (6616 bp) was amplified with the following two gene specific primers: the forward primer PDS298 (5'-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTGTTTAACATCCAAGATTTGTTTTACATAATCGTTAC-3') located 2992 bp upstream from the translational start, and the reverse primer
transgenic lines were maintained afterwards. Furthermore, a transcriptional  pWUSCHEL : GUS  line [ 43 ] was used to analyse the expression pattern of  WUSCHEL  in developing ovules. Complementation experiments Stable transgenic plant lines expressing  gAG:GFP  and  gFUL:GFP  in wild type Col-0 background were crossed with the SALK_014999  ag  T-DNA insertion mutant line and the  ful-1  mutant [ 22 ] respectively, while the  gAP1:GFP  construct was directly transformed into the SALK_056708  ap1  T-DNA insertion mutant line. In the progeny, the presence of the wild type allele, the mutant allele, and the GFP tagged MADS box gene construct was determined by PCR and CLSM. For  AG  the following primer pairs were used:  AG  wild type allele, forward primer PRO182 (5'-GGATCCATGGCGTACCAATCGGAGCT-3') annealing immediately after the START codon and reverse
 ag  T-DNA mutant allele, forward primer PRO433 (5'-CACCGATCAAAGACTACACATCAC-3') located in the 5' UTR 2634 bp upstream of the START codon and reverse primer PDS404 (5'-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG-3') located on the left border of the T-DNA. The presence of  gAG:GFP  was determined by CLSM in the inflorescences. For  FUL , the following primer pairs were used:  FUL  wild type allele, forward primer PDS1024 (5'-CTTACGTCACTGTAGACTCACG-3') located in the 5' UTR 201 bp upstream of the START codon and reverse primer PDS1023 (5'-AAAGAGTGAGATAGTTCTACTCG-3') in the 3' UTR 16 bp downstream of the STOP codon;  ful-1  mutant allele, forward primer PDS1025 (5'-TTCATCCCTTTTTCAGGGTTGTC-3') corresponding with the inserted DsE element and reverse primer PDS1023; and g FUL:GFP , forward primer PDS920 (5'-ATCACTTACGTCACTGTAGACTCACG-3') in the 5' UTR 204 bp upstream and reverse primer PDS914 (5'-CATCATGTTTGTATAGTTCATCCATGCC-3') 5 bp upstream of the STOP codon of m GFP6 . For  AP1 , the following primer pairs were used:  AP1  wild type allele, forward primer PDS912 (5'-AAAACTTTAGGGCCGTAGTGAAGTGAAC-3') 385 bp downstream of the START codon and reverse primer PDS1105 (5'-ATTGGATGAAAAGAGCCTAGCCAC-3') in the 3' UTR 89 bp downstream of the STOP codon (which will give no product for the  ap1  T-DNA mutant allele); g AP1:GFP , forward primer PDS912 and reverse primer PDS915 (5'-GACCAGGGTTGGCCATGGAACAGG-3') 183 bp downstream of the START codon of  mGFP6 . Confocal laser scanning microscopy To observe the localisation of the GFP tagged proteins in living plant tissue, inflorescence material was dissected until the relevant meristems and flower buds became visible. After stage 5 flower buds, when sepals started
and added at a concentration of 5 μM to the embedding mixture of 0.8% agar, 0.5 × MS. The incubation time of the sample in the embedding mixture with FM4-64 was at least 20 minutes. Confocal Laser Scanning Microscopy (CLSM) of the living plant tissue was performed with a Zeiss LSM 510 inverted confocal microscope using a 40 × C-Apochromat (NA 1.2 W korr) lens. Both GFP and the FM4-64 dye were excited with the 488 nm line of
