ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
likely peroxisomal targeting motifs (C-terminal SKI, SKM, and SKM motifs, respectively), whereas GSTT2L and GSTT3L contained polypeptide extensions resembling Myb transcription factors which were more likely to direct the fusion proteins to the nucleus. To investigate their sub-cellular localization, GFP fusions of GSTT1, GSTT2, GSTT3 (short form), and GSTT3L (transcription factor fusion) were transiently expressed in  Nicotiana benthamiana , and their localization then monitored by laser scanning confocal microscopy. GFP–GSTT1 ( Fig.
Fig. 3B ), and GFP–GSTT3 ( Fig. 3C ) were each confined to small organelles which, on the basis of their mobility, number, and size, together with the putative C-terminal targeting sequence of these GSTs, were assumed to be peroxisomes. This was confirmed ( Fig. S3  in  Supplementary data  available at  JXB  online) by co-localization with the peroxisomal marker px-rk ( Nelson  et al. , 2007 ). By contrast, GFP–GSTT3L localized solely to the nucleus ( Fig. 3D ,  Fig. S4 ), giving a punctate expression pattern and showing exclusion from the nucleolus. Fig. 3. Laser scanning confocal micrographs showing intracellular localization of N-terminally GFP-tagged GSTs transiently expressed in  N. benthamiana 
case, these GSTs lacked characterized C-terminal targeting motifs, and the N-terminal transit peptide of GSTF8 was removed prior to testing. GFP–GST fusions of all the GSTFs and GSTs U2, U7, U9, U11, U19, and U28 all localized to the cytosol. In most cases GFP fusions were also found at low levels in the nucleus, presumably due to passive diffusion, as illustrated by GFP–GSTF2 and GFP–GSTU19 ( Fig. 4A, B ), with both of these GSTs being described as abundantly expressed proteins in proteomic studies ( Sappl  et al. , 2004 ;  Smith  et al. , 2004 ). GFP fusions of GSTs U7, U9, U17, and U28 were practically absent from the nuclei ( Fig. 4C ). By contrast, GFP–GSTU12 localized entirely to the nucleus ( Fig. 4D ), confirmed by counterstaining with propidium iodide. As compared with related GSTs, examination of the GSTU12 polypeptide sequence revealed an N-terminal extension of 25 amino acid residues containing a putative nuclear
for nuclear import. Sub-cellular localization studies were then extended to other GSTs containing unusual sequence motifs. The lambda protein GSTL2 (without its N-terminal signal peptide) was selected since it has a potential peroxisomal targeting sequence (ARL) at its C-terminus. GFP–GSTL2 was found to localize to both the cytosol and peroxisomes ( Fig. 4E ), confirming the presence of a peroxisomal targeting signal. The unusual GST superfamily member TCHQD was also studied. GFP–TCHQD localized to the plasma membrane ( Fig. 4F ), co-localizing ( Fig. S3 ) with the diagnostic marker pm-rk ( Nelson  et al. , 2007 ).  Table 1  summarizes
GSTU12 (At5g41210) Nucleus Nuclear localization signal (KKRKK) in N-term extension GSTL2 (At3g55040) Chloroplast * N-term targeting peptide * Peroxisome C-term ARL DHAR3 (At5g16710) Chloroplast * N-term targeting peptide * TCHQD (At1g77290) Plasma membrane Unknown Data are based on N-terminal GFP fusions, except where indicated. * Previously identified targeting peptides, giving an assumed chloroplastic location ( Dixon  et al. , 2002 a ). Fig. 4. Laser scanning confocal micrographs showing intracellular localization of N-terminally GFP-tagged GSTs transiently expressed in  N. benthamiana  (green channel), with some panels counterstained with propidium iodide (magenta channel). GSTs shown are GSTF2 (A), GSTU19 (B), GSTU28 (C; nuclei and cell walls counterstained), GSTU12 (D; cell walls counterstained); GSTL2
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Materials and methods Vectors The expression vectors pET-STRP3 and BIN-STRP3 were synthesized as described ( Dixon  et al. , 2008 ;  Supplementary data  available at  JXB  online). For plant expression of N-terminal GFP fusions, the vector BIN-STRP3 was modified such that a GFP tag was introduced between the  Strep -tag and the cloned protein. This construct was prepared by amplifying GFP from a plasmid containing smGFP (EMBL accession U70495) ( Davis and Vierstra, 1998 ) using the oligonucleotides GCGCGCCGATCGTGAGTAAAGGAGAAGAAC and GCGCGCCCTGCAGGATCCTTAATTAATTTGTATAGTTCATCCATGC. The PCR product was digested using  Pvu I and  Sbf I and ligated into BIN-STRP3 digested with  Pac I and  Sbf I to give BIN-STRP3–GFP. Vectors (for sequences, see  Supplementary data  available at  JXB  online) are available upon request. Cloning of GSTs Most GST sequences were PCR-amplified from cDNA prepared from a combination of  Arabidopsis  plants and root
engineered into the primers and cloned into similarly digested pET-STRP3. Sequences were sub-cloned from pET-vectors to BIN-vectors typically using  Pac I and  Bst XI restriction sites ( Fig. 1A ). Fig. 1. Strep -tag vector design and BIN-STRP3–GFP-mediated expression in plants. (A) Overview of vector design, showing promoters, restriction enzyme sites useful for cloning, and left and right borders (LB, RB) of T-DNA region for the bacterial (pET-STRP3) and plant (BIN-STRP3, BIN-STRP3–GFP) expression vectors. (B) Coomassie Brilliant Blue-stained SDS–PAGE gel showing affinity purification of GFP–GST fusion proteins from  N. benthamiana  leaves infiltrated with BIN-STRP3–GFP constructs. Purifications are shown for the GST fusions as labelled and for a negative control. Lanes for each purification: C, crude protein extract (equivalent to 1 mg FW tissue); U, unbound fraction (equivalent to 1 mg FW tissue); P,
(equivalent to 100 mg FW tissue). Molecular weight markers (M) are shown with masses (in kDa) as shown. The identities of purified proteins were confirmed by peptide mass fingerprinting. The vertical bar marks the removal of superfluous gel lanes. GST expression in  Escherichia coli The pET-STRP3 constructs were transformed into  E. coli  strain Tuner(DE3) (Novagen) containing the pRARE plasmid from strain Rosetta (Novagen). Cultures
cumene hydroperoxide and fatty acid hydroperoxides prepared as described previously ( Edwards and Dixon, 2005 ). Assays with fatty acid hydroperoxides used these substrates at a final concentration of 0.2 mM in the presence of 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100. GFP–GST expression in  Nicotiana benthamiana  Domin GST coding sequences sub-cloned into binary vectors were transformed into  Agrobacterium tumefaciens  GV3101:pMP90 ( Koncz and Schell, 1986 ). Cultures were mixed 1:1 with similarly prepared cultures containing the construct
NASC ( Scholl  et al. , 2000 ), were co-infiltrated. Both constructs expressed the red fluorescent protein mCherry, with either a C-terminal SKL motif added for peroxisomal targeting (px-rk) or as a fusion with the plasma membrane aquaporin AtPIP2a (pm-rk) for plasma membrane targeting. After 2–3 d, the transformed leaves were analysed by laser scanning
with a 560-nm-long pass filter, and mCherry fusions were imaged using a 543 nm laser with a 650-nm-long pass filter. For each fluorophore combination, controls lacking each fluorophore in turn confirmed negligible channel crosstalk and autofluorescence (except from chloroplasts). GFP–GST purification GSTs were purified from frozen plant tissue after extraction using 4 v/w 100 mM TRIS-Cl pH 7.5 containing 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 10 mM sodium ascorbate, 50 μg ml −1  avidin, 10 μg ml −1
