ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
Localization of PYD1- PYD2- and PYD3-GFP fusion proteins in plant cells Lack of detectable DHPDH activity has precluded the localization of this enzyme in subcellular fractions of plant cells, but DHPase and β-UPase activities have been reported to be cytosolic or nuclear in tomato cells
amino acid sequences for these enzymes, predict a plastid localization for DHPDH, the localization of DHPase in the secretory system and a cytosolic localization for β-UPase. For conclusive localization of these enzymes  in vivo , we cloned C-terminal GFP-fusion constructs with full-length coding sequences of  PYD1 ,  PYD2  and PYD3  genes and stably expressed them in Arabidopsis. Confocal microscopy revealed a plastid localization of the PYD1-GFP fusion ( Fig. 5a–c ), in agreement with the predicted plastid localization of this enzyme. Localization of PYD2-GFP within the secretory system ( Fig. 5d–f ) and PYD3-GFP in the cytosol ( Fig. 5 g–i ) also agrees with targeting predictions. The distribution of these enzymes within several different subcellular compartments suggests a potentially complex regulation. As nucleobases and other pathway intermediates and products have been shown
PYD2-GFP, GFP fluorescence signal; (e) PYD2-GFP, chlorophyll autofluorescence signal; (f) PYD2-GFP, overlay of GFP and chlorophyll fluorescence signals; (g) PYD3-GFP, GFP fluorescence signal; (h) PYD3-GFP, chlorophyll autofluorescence signal; (i) PYD3-GFP, overlay of GFP and chlorophyll fluorescence signals. (j–l) AMK2-GFP, plastid control: GFP fluorescence signal (green), chlorophyll autofluorescence signal (red) and overlay ( Lange  et al ., 2008 ); (m, n)  mgfp4 -ER, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) control: GFP fluorescence signal (green) and overlay with chlorophyll autofluorescence signal (red) ( Haseloff 1998 ); (o, p) GFP only, cytosolic control: GFP fluorescence signal (green) and overlay with chlorophyll autofluorescence signal (red); Bar, 8 µm. Isolation and characterization of  pyd  mutants As PYD1, PYD2 and PYD3 are encoded by single genes in Arabidopsis, the catabolic pathway is
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Stock Centre (University of Nottingham, Loughborough, UK), and GABI_251F09 ( pyd1-1 ) and GABI_114F11 ( pyd2-2 ) from the GABI-Kat collection (Max-Planck-Institut für Züchtungsforschung, Cologne, Germany). Seeds were surface sterilized and grown aseptically on 1/2 × Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium including vitamins ( Murashige and Skoog, 1962 ), 0.25 m m  2-[ N
 et al ., 1997 ) and a 7900HT Fast Real-Time PCR System (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA). The gene-specific primer pairs used in these analyses are listed in  Table S2  (see Supporting Information). Construction of PYD-GFP fusion proteins Entire  PYD1 ,  PYD2  and  PYD3  open reading frames (ORFs) were amplified from first-strand cDNA by PCR with  Pfu -polymerase (MBI Fermentas, St Leon-Roth, Germany) using the following oligonucleotides: Pyd1_5, CACCATGGCTTCCATGAGTTTCGCC;
Pyd2_3, CGTAGCTTCAGTTCTGACACG; Pyd3_5, CACCATGGATCATATGATATCAGAAAAC; Pyd3_3, TGTAGAATTCTTGTGGAGCAATG; PCR products were inserted into entry vector pENTR™/SD/D-TOPO® (Invitrogen GmbH) and positive entry clones were confirmed by sequencing (MWG Biotech AG, Ebersberg, Germany). Clones were recombined into pK7FWG2 plant transformation vector for C-terminal GFP fusion ( Karimi  et al ., 2002 ). Constructs were transferred into Arabidopsis by  Agrobacterium -mediated transformation using the floral dip method ( Clough & Bent, 1998 ). Transgenic plants were selected by kanamycin resistance. Confocal microscopy was performed on 4–6-wk-old plants grown on soil. Stably transformed Arabidopsis plants expressing AMK2-GFP ( Lange  et al ., 2008 ) were used as plastid control, those expressing  mgfp4 -ER ( Haseloff, 1998 ) were used as endoplasmic reticulum (ER) control, and those expressing GFP alone were used as cytosolic control. Isolation of  pyd  mutants Plants with insertions in  PYD1  ( pyd1-1 , GABI_251F09;  pyd1-2 , SALK_083897),  PYD2  ( pyd2-1 , SALK_038919;  pyd2-2 , GABI_114F11) and
sterile liquid culture medium in 250-ml Erlenmeyer flasks on orbital shakers with constant fluorescent light (photon flux density of 50 µmol m −2  s −1  in the flask) at 22°C. The medium contained 2 m m  KNO 3 , 1 m m  NH 4 NO 3 , 1 m
