ABSTRACT:
dimethylases play an essential role as transcription factors (mtTFBs) in fungal and animal mitochondria. Human mitochondrial rRNA is methylated and human mitochondria contain two related mtTFBs, one proposed to act as rRNA dimethylase, the other as transcription factor. The nuclear genome of  Arabidopsis thaliana  encodes three dimethylase/mtTFB-like proteins, one of which, Dim1B, is shown here to be imported into mitochondria. Transcription initiation by mitochondrial RNA polymerases appears not to be stimulated by Dim1B  in vitro .
RESULTS:
a nuclear protein ( Table S1 ). To experimentally investigate the subcellular localization of Dim1A and Dim1B, nucleotide sequences encoding the full length and 64 N-terminal amino acids of Dim1A and Dim1B, respectively, were fused in-frame to the green fluorescent protein (GFP) coding sequence. Arabidopsis protoplasts were transformed with the Dim1A– and Dim1B–GFP fusion constructs and transient expression of the fusion proteins was monitored using confocal laser fluorescence microscopy. Two plasmids encoding a mitochondrial Cox4–GFP or a plastidial RecA–GFP fusion protein were used for reference transformations of Arabidopsis protoplasts. Protoplasts expressing Dim1B–GFP displayed green fluorescence of small structures resembling the fluorescent mitochondria of protoplasts synthesizing Cox4–GFP ( Figure 1 ), substantiating a mitochondrial localization of Dim1B. Dim1A–GFP fluorescence, on the other hand, was found to localize to the nucleus and for the most part enveloped a small globular structure therein, which likely corresponds to the nucleolus. These data indicate that Dim1A does not possess a mitochondrial or plastidial transit peptide. Figure 1 Transient expression of GFP fusion proteins in  Arabidopsis thaliana  protoplasts. The  Dim1A  and  Dim1B  gene fragments encoding putative transit peptides were inserted into plasmid pOL–GFPS65C to generate vectors driving the expression of Dim1A–GFP (a) and Dim1B–GFP (b) showing nuclear (a) and mitochondrial (b) GFP localisation. Control constructs code for plastidial RecA–GFP (c) and mitochondrial CoxIV–GFP (d), respectively. Images were taken by confocal fluorescence microscopy. Phylogenetic analysis of plant, fungal and animal rRNA dimethylase-like proteins In order to assess the phylogenetic relationships of Arabidopsis Dim1A, Dim1B and of the plastidial methyltransferase Pfc1 to established mitochondrial
a group of rRNA dimethylases containing the yeast nucleolar 18S rRNA dimethylase Dim1. Therefore, they most probably represent nuclear/cytoplasmic enzymes, a suggestion which would be consistent with computational predictions of the subcellular localization of these proteins and with our GFP import experiments conducted with Arabidopsis Dim1A. A sister group to plant, fungal and animal nuclear Dim1-like dimethylases is formed by the predicted mitochondrial rRNA dimethylases of plants including Arabidopsis Dim1B. Remarkably, amino acid sequence similarities of Arabidopsis Dim1A and
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
the Arabidopsis cDNA with  Pfu  DNA polymerase (Promega,  http://www.promega.com/ ). Sanger dideoxy sequencing was performed on an ABI3130xl sequencer (Applied Biosystems,  http://www.appliedbiosystems.com/ ). Generation of targeting constructs, transient expression and confocal microscopy To generate the pDim1B–GFP and pDim1A–GFP constructs driving the expression of fusion proteins Dim1B–GFP and Dim1A–GFP, sequences encoding the 64 N-terminal amino acids of Dim1B and the complete coding sequence of Dim1A were amplified from reverse-transcribed mRNA-enriched Arabidopsis RNA using primer pairs gfp-Dim1B-P/gfp-Dim1B-M (5′-cagctctagaATGATTCTTCGATTGAAAGACCA-3′/5′-cagcgtcgacTGCACAGAAACAATCCATCG-3′) and gfp-Dim1A-P/gfp-Dim1A-4M (5′-cagctctagaATGGCGGGAGGCAAGATC-3′/5′-cagcgtcgacTGAAGTGAATACCAGACTTGTTACA-3′), respectively. PCR products were  Xba I/ Sal I-digested and inserted into the  Spe I/ Sal I-cleaved vector pOL–GFP S65C ( Peeters  et al. , 2000 ). Control constructs encoding mitochondrial Cox4–GFP and plastidial RecA–GFP were kindly
days after transformation by confocal laser scanning microscopy with a Leica TCS SP2 using 488 nm excitation and two-channel measurement of emission from 510 to 580 nm (green/GFP) and >590 nm (red/chlorophyll). Sequence data and multiple alignments Genomic sequences, EST sequences and amino acid sequences were retrieved from the National Center for Biotechnology Information ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/ ) employing the BLASTP and TBLASTN algorithms and from the Joint
