ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
bar: 20 μm. TIP1;1-YFP is clearly expressed in epidermis and cortex, but its expression is particularly strong in the endodermis and pericycle (Fig.  2A ). Here TIP1;1-YFP highlights numerous bright circular structures in the lumen of the central vacuole. We hypothesise these are vacuolar 'bulbs', which have previously been described as tonoplast invaginations, which occur independently of the ectopic expression of XFP-tagged membrane proteins, and where TIP1;1-GFP is concentrated [ 18 , 19 ]. It is however difficult in some cases to observe a continuity between these structures and the central vacuole tonoplast. At higher magnification, the overlapping patterns of expression of TIP2;2-YFP and TIP2;3-YFP are confirmed. Both are present in pericycle cells, particularly in the rows of pericycle cells that form the xylem poles [ 20 ]. Both TIP-YFPs tend
axis, taken in the regions of the root indicated by the arrowheads in A. D and E: the regions indicated by dotted boxes in A were observed at high magnification. Single optical sections are shown. Note YFP-TIP1;2 in the ER of young root cap cells and in the tonoplast of root cap cells closer to the elongation zone. F: The fluorescent traces from YFP (green) and propidium iodide (red) from the image stack in panels A were reconstructed, segmented and rendered in 3D with Mimics 12.1. Scale bars: (a), 20 μm; (d) and (e), 10 μm. At the subcellular level, YFP-TIP1;2 localises to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of young root cap cells (Fig  3e : note the characteristic reticular pattern and the nuclear envelope; see also Additional file  1B ). The chimeric protein is mostly found on the
(red) were imaged. Sequential stages of lateral root development are shown. Inset in H: note the boundary between pericycle cells expressing TIP2;3-RFP (top) and TIP2;1-YFP (bottom). Scale bars: 20 μm. Overlapping TIP isoforms are mostly detectable at the central vacuole tonoplast We have shown that the various TIP isoforms under study present diverse tissue specificity within roots. Several isoforms, however, are co-expressed in certain
localisation of selected pairs of the above isoforms, tagged with different spectral variants of fluorescent proteins and co-expressed in transgenic Arabidopsis (Fig.  5 ). Figure 5 Overlapping TIP isoforms are mainly detected at the tonoplast of the central vacuole . Transgenic seedlings co-expressing the indicated TIP-YFP and TIP-RFP constructs were grown for 8 days on MS medium--agar plates. Roots were excised and visualised by CLSM. (A, D, G, J): YFP fluorescence (green); (B, E, H, K): RFP fluorescence
lines expressing individual isoforms (Additional file  3 ). The widespread TIP1;1-YFP and TIP2;3-RFP are co-expressed in epidermis, cortex and pericycle cells (Fig.  2 ). In these tissues, both proteins are detected on the tonoplast of the central vacuole (Fig.  5A-C ). Both the tonoplast and the smaller, bulb-like vacuolar structures [ 18 ] are labelled. Likewise, TIP2;2-YFP and TIP1;1-RFP mostly label the same tonoplast in the cell layers where they are co-expressed (Fig.  5D-F ).
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Methods Recombinant DNA and generation of transgenic plants The constructs encoding native TIP1;1-YFP and native TIP2;1YFP have been described previously [ 14 ]. A full list of primers designed to amplify the genomic sequences of the root-expressed TIPs is shown in Additional file  5 . Each TIP genomic sequence, including either the complete promoter
 Columbia ecotype. Primers included restriction sites KpnI at the 5' and XhoI at the 3' of the target sequences. Amplified fragments were cloned into the KpnI and XhoI sites of pGREEN0029, upstream of a XhoI/SacI fragment containing the YFP coding sequence and the OCS 3' terminator fragment. A similar strategy was adopted to fuse TIP sequences to RFP, but in this case the forward primers included both KpnI and SacI restriction sites, generating a TIP-RFP cassette that could be mobilized with SacI. To obtain pairwise TIP-YFP/TIP-RFP combinations, selected TIP-RFP cassettes were excised with SacI and ligated into TIP-YFP vectors linearised with SacI, giving rise to constructs harbouring both reporter genes in a tandem. All the chimeric constructs were introduced into strain C58 of Agrobacterium tumefaciens harbouring the pSoup vector [ 31 ]. Arabidopsis plants were then transformed
onto agar plates containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) Basal Medium (Sigma-Aldrich) and grown for 8 days at 22°C, in a 16:8 light:dark regime. Roots were excised, mounted in half-strength liquid MS medium and immediately observed with a Leica TSC SP5 confocal laser scanning microscope, using either a 10× (NA 0.3) air or a 63× (NA 1.4) oil immersion objective. In some cases roots were preincubated for 2 min in 10 μg/ml propidium iodide, diluted in half-strength MS medium.
RFP or YFP and propidium iodide was performed by combining the settings indicated above in the sequential scanning facility of the microscope, as instructed by the manufacturer. 3D reconstruction of z-stacks of optical sections was performed with the Leica LAS-AF Lite free
