ABSTRACT:
mitochondrial- rpl10 -like cDNAs were identified in EST libraries from numerous land plants. In three lineages of angiosperms,  rpl10  is either lost from the mitochondrial genome or a pseudogene. In two of them (Brassicaceae and monocots), no nuclear copy of mitochondrial  rpl10  is identifiably present, and instead a second copy of nuclear-encoded chloroplast  rpl10  is present. Transient assays using green fluorescent protein indicate that this duplicate gene is dual targeted to mitochondria and chloroplasts. We infer that mitochondrial  rpl10  has been functionally replaced by duplicated chloroplast counterparts
RESULTS:
5 B) and has been entirely lost from the mitochondrial genome in others (Fig.  5 C). Extensive cDNA and nuclear genomic sequence data suggest that monocots and Brassicaceae no longer contain mitochondrial  rpl10  in any genome. Our GFP assay demonstrated that the product of an extra copy of the nuclear gene for chloroplast RPL10 is imported into both mitochondria and chloroplasts in  Arabidopsis  and  Oryza . These results strongly suggest that the mitochondrial RPL10
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
CA, USA), and 12–14 independent cDNA clones were sequenced for each species to detect any potential RNA editing events. 2.4. Construction and visualization of green fluorescent protein fusion proteins Sequences encoding the first 71 and 45 residues of chloroplast-like RPL10 in  Arabidopsis  (At3g12370) and  Oryza  (Os05g0121500) were amplified by PCR with primer pairs P6–P7 and P8–P9, respectively, and fused in-frame with the 5′-upstream region of a synthetic green fluorescent protein (GFP) 17  (kindly provided by Dr Y. Niwa). The resultant constructs were introduced into  Arabidopsis  epidermal cells using a PDS-1000 particle delivery system (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). Mitochondria were labelled with an mt-DsRed construct, in which the GFP ORF in a pWS plasmid (carrying a presequence of  Arabidopsis  F 1 -ATPase δ, kindly provided by Prof. W. Sakamoto) was replaced by DsRed (Clontech, Mountain View, CA, USA). Transient expression of the introduced proteins and chloroplast
