ABSTRACT:
The genome of  Arabidopsis thaliana  contains six genes,  AtPMT1  to  AtPMT6  ( Arabidopsis thaliana POLYOL/MONOSACCHARIDE TRANSPORTER 1–6 ), which form a distinct subfamily within the large family of more than 50 monosaccharide transporter-like (MST-like) genes. So far, only AtPMT5 [formerly named AtPLT5 (At3g18830)] has been characterized and was shown to be a plasma membrane-localized H + -symporter with broad substrate specificity. The characterization of AtPMT1 (At2g16120) and AtPMT2 (At2g16130), two other, almost identical, members of this transporter subfamily, are presented here. Expression of the  AtPMT1  and  AtPMT2  cDNAs in
their cRNAs in  Xenopus laevis  oocytes showed that both proteins are voltage-dependent and catalyse the symport of their substrates with protons. Fusions of AtPMT1 or AtPMT2 with the green fluorescent protein (GFP) localized to  Arabidopsis  plasma membranes. Analyses of reporter genes performed with  AtPMT1  or  AtPMT2  promoter sequences showed expression in mature ( AtPMT2 ) or germinating ( AtPMT1 ) pollen grains, as well as in growing pollen tubes, hydathodes, and young
RESULTS:
demonstrate that AtPMT1 and AtPMT2 catalyse the electrogenic, voltage-dependent symport of protons with xylitol. Transient expression of  AtPMT1-GFP  and  AtPMT2-GFP  fusion-constructs Although the transport activities of AtPMT1 and AtPMT2 in yeast and  Xenopus  plasma membranes ( Figs 2, 3, 4 ) provided indirect evidence that these proteins might be transporters of the plasma membrane, targeting of AtPMT1 and AtPMT2 to other membranes  in planta  cannot be excluded. To identify the subcellular localization of both transporters in  Arabidopsis , the open reading frame (ORF) for green fluorescent protein (GFP) was attached to the 3′-ends of  AtPMT1  or
5A , B; pYK26 for  AtPMT2-GFP  expression;  Fig. 5C ) showed strong and specific labelling of their cell surfaces. Chloroplasts (recognized by their red autofluorescence) are clearly located inside this labelled structure. This localization supports the plasma membrane as the origin of the signal rather than the tonoplast or the endoplasmic reticulum. Fig. 5. Subcellular localization of AtPMT1 and AtPMT2. (A) Subcellular localization of AtPMT1 by transient expression of an  AtPMT1-GFP  fusion-construct in an  Arabidopsis  protoplast after chemical transformation. (B)  Arabidopsis  epidermis cell transformed by
the AtPMT1-GFP construct. (C) Subcellular localization of AtPMT2 by transient expression of an  AtPMT2/GFP  fusion construct in an  Arabidopsis  protoplast after chemical transformation. Arrows show localization of chloroplasts (red autofluorescence of chlorophyll) inside the GFP-labelled plasma membrane. All images show single confocal sections. Bars are 50 μm (A, B), 60 μm (C). Analysis of the tissue-specific expression in  AtPMT1  promoter/reporter and  AtPMT2  promoter/reporter plants For each gene two separate reporter
stainings observed in flower stalks, antisera were raised against a mixture of two peptides (peptide 1: NH 2 -KVLDKTSNTKEEAISR-COOH; peptide 2: NH 2 -SYTANKKNNSMSKDNEV-COOH) predicted to represent immunogenic regions in AtPMT1. These peptides corresponded to the regions 223–238 (central cytoplasmatic loop) and 491–507 ( C -terminus) of AtPMT1. The respective regions of AtPMT2 are either identical (peptide 1) or very similar (peptide 2: NH2-YSANKKNNVMSKGKQV-COOH), and resulting antibodies were, therefore, not expected to discriminate between these proteins. Peptides for the
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
excised and inserted into  Hin dIII/ Sac I-digested pAF16 ( Stadler  et al. , 2005 ) yielding the plasmids pMV-7A (p AtPMT1 / GUS ) and pMV-8A (p AtPMT2 / GUS ). For the generation of promoter/ GFP  fusions, the same PCR-derived promoter fragments were cloned in front of the ORF of  GFP  in a pUC19-based plasmid and then also cloned as  Hin dIII/ Sac I fragments into pAF16 yielding the plasmids pMV-7B (p AtPMT1 / GFP ) and pMV-8B (p AtPMT2 / GFP ). The different constructs were used for transformation of  Arabidopsis  ( Clough and Bent, 1998 ). Transient expression of  AtPMT1-GFP  and  AtPMT2-GFP For transient expression of fusion constructs, the plasmid pSO35e was used ( Klepek  et al. , 2005 ). The coding sequences were PCR-amplified [for AtPMT1: AtPMT1c+4f (5′-GAG GCA CCA TGG AGA ATT CCT CGG GAG TTG AAC AAG
acid of the respective ORF. These second  Nco I sites replaced the stop codons of the original sequences. These modified ORFs were inserted into the unique  Nco I cloning site representing the start ATG of the  GFP  ORF in the pSO35e plasmid. The continuous ORFs were confirmed by sequencing. The resulting constructs were used for transient expression of  AtPMT1/GFP  or  AtPMT2/GFP  in  Arabidopsis  protoplasts (polyethylene glycol transformation;  Abel and Theologis, 1994 ) or in tobacco epidermis cells (particle bombardment;  Klepek  et al. , 2005 ). T-DNA and RNAi lines The position of the T-DNA
filters ( Dunn, 1986 ). AtPMT1 protein bands were detected by treatment of the filters with anti-rabbit-IgG antiserum-peroxidase conjugate (diluted 1:4000 in blocking buffer) followed by incubation with Lumi-Light Western Blotting Substrate (Roche Diagnostics GmbH, Mannheim, Germany). Detection of GFP fluorescence and GUS histochemical staining
