ABSTRACT:
a single, intronless gene. Expression of AtTSPO is tightly regulated both at the transcriptional and post-translational levels. It has been shown previously that overexpression of AtTSPO in plant cell can be detrimental, and the protein was detected in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi stacks, contrasting with previous findings and suggesting a mitochondrial subcellular localization for this protein. To ascertain these findings, immunocytochemistry and ABA induction were used to demonstrate that, in plant cells, physiological levels of AtTSPO colocalized with AtArf1, a mainly Golgi-localized protein in plant cells. In addition, fluorescent protein-tagged AtTSPO was targeted to the secretory pathway and did not colocalize with MitoTracker-labelled mitochondria. These results suggest that the polytopic membrane protein AtTSPO is cotranslationally targeted to the ER in plant cells and accumulates in the Trans-Golgi Network. Heterologous expression of AtTSPO in  Saccharomyces cerevisiae , yeast devoid of TSPO-related protein, resulted in growth defects. However, subcellular fractionation and immunoprecipitation experiments showed that AtTSPO was targeted to mitochondria where it colocalized and interacted with the outer mitochondrial membrane porin VDAC1p, reminiscent of the subcellular localization and activity of mammalian translocator protein 18 kDa TSPO. The evolutionarily divergent AtTSPO appears therefore to be switching its sorting mode in a species-dependent manner, an uncommon peculiarity for a polytopic membrane protein in eukaryotic cells. These results are discussed in relation to the recognition and organelle targeting mechanisms of polytopic membrane
RESULTS:
TSPO share not more than 25% identity. Recently, subcellular fractionation, immunocytochemistry and fluorescent protein tagging approaches were used and it was shown that AtTSPO is targeted to the secretory pathway in plant cells and can be detected in the ER and Golgi stacks ( Guillaumot  et al. , 2009 ). However,
eukaryotic translation product can occasionally be targeted to more than one organelle. These results clearly support the conclusion that AtTSPO is not, in addition to the organelles of the early secretory pathway, partially localized to the mitochondrion. Fig. 2. YFP-AtTSPO is not targeted to mitochondria in plant cells. Confocal images of YFP-AtTSPO and MitoTracker (panel mitochondria) imaged simultaneously as a time-lapse (see movies in the  Supplementary data  at  JXB  online); the two
the lower  M r  band was identified as AtTSPO from three resulting MS/MS peptides (15% sequence coverage, MASCOT score 87). These results suggest that VDAC1p is the major co-purifying protein with AtTSPO. Fig. 4. Subcellular fractionation and membrane localization of 6×His-AtTSPO expressed in yeast. Lysed spheroplasts were separated on a discontinuous sucrose
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
anti-mouse secondary antibody at 1:10 000 (detection of anti-VDAC1). Total yeast proteins were prepared in 20 mM Na-phosphate buffer pH 7.8, 150 mM NaCl and 2% (w/v) DDM (dodecyl-β- D -maltoside). The extraction buffer was supplemented with 1 mM PMSF and 2 μg ml −1  of a
final dilution of 1/50, followed by three more washes and mounting in the antifade medium Prolong™ containing DAPI (Invitrogen). The cells were imaged with a confocal microscope (Zeiss LSM 710) using an oil-immersion ×63 lens. Plant leaf cells expressing YFP-AtTSPO ( Guillaumot  et al. , 2009 ) were infiltrated with 5 μM MitoTracker orange CMTMRos (Invitrogen) using a 1 ml syringe and imaged with a ×40 water-immersion lens. FITC was excited with the 488 nm argon multi-laser line
the emission beam 500–560 nm amplified; Texas red was excited with the 535 nm He–Ne line and the emission beam 600–680 nm amplified; DAPI was excited with the 405 nm diode laser and the emission beam 440–500 nm amplified; YFP was excited with the 514 nm argon multi-laser line and the emission beam 510–580 nm amplified. The Imaris™ software (Bitplane AG, Zurich, Switzerland) was used for image post-processing. Purification of yeast microsomes Yeast membrane fractions were prepared as in
a pH of 7.5 with NaOH and subsequently centrifuged at 22 000  g  for 40 min. The pellet, containing the plasma membrane-enriched fraction was resuspended in MS buffer followed by protein quantification as above. Purification of histidine-tagged AtTSPO and mass spectrometry analysis Microsomes were obtained as described above, resuspended in buffer A made of 20 mM Na-phosphate and 500 mM NaCl. Proteins solubilization was conducted according to  Kanczewska  et al.  (2005) , except that
buffer A containing instead 0.05% (w/v) DDM. After the washing steps, Ni-NTA-bound proteins were eluted with 500 mM imidazole in the modified version of buffer A described above and analysed by SDS-PAGE followed by Western blotting as appropriate. For mass spectrometry, the stained protein band was manually excised and in-gel tryptic digest performed using standard protocols. The peptides generated were mixed with 2 mg ml −1  of α-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid matrix and MS and MS/MS spectra acquired using an Applied Bisosystems 4800 MALDI TOF/TOF™ Analyzer spectrometer. MS and MS/MS queries were performed using the Applied Biosystems GPS Explorer™ 3.6 software working with the Matrix Science Ltd MASCOT ®  Database search engine v2.1 (Boston, USA). The National Center for Biotechnology Information database restricted to yeasts was used. A 200 ppm precursor tolerance for MS spectra and a 0.1 Da fragment tolerance for MS/MS spectra were allowed. Co-immunoprecipitation In order to generate an immunocomplex, 10 μg of the monoclonal antibody against VDAC1, or 5 μg of anti-AtTSPO was mixed with 200 μg of protein (volume of 200 μl) and incubated at room temperature
