ABSTRACT:
of stem cells at the shoot apex. Arabidopsis ASYMMETRIC-LEAVES2 (AS2) protein plays a key role in the regulation of many genes responsible for flat symmetric leaf formation. The  AS2  gene, expressed in leaf primordia, encodes a plant-specific nuclear protein containing an AS2/LOB domain with cysteine repeats (C-motif). AS2 proteins are present in speckles in and around the nucleoli, and in the nucleoplasm of some leaf epidermal cells .  We used the tobacco cultured cell line BY-2 expressing the AS2-fused yellow fluorescent protein to examine subnuclear localization of AS2 in dividing cells. AS2 mainly localized to speckles (designated AS2 bodies) in cells undergoing mitosis and distributed in a pairwise manner during the separation of sets of daughter chromosomes. Few interphase cells contained AS2 bodies. Deletion
RESULTS:
in “ Materials and methods ”, we cultured the transformed BY-2 cells in liquid medium containing 0.05 μM 17-β-estradiol for 16 h to induce transcription of the  AS2 - YFP  gene. We then examined those cells for subcellular and subnuclear localization of AS2-YFP proteins by observing randomly dividing cells for the fluorescent signals of AS2-YFP. As shown in Fig.  1 , 4.7% of interphase cells exhibited YFP signals in subnuclear speckles in and around the nucleolus in addition to the nucleoplasm (Fig.  1 , 2nd row). When only YFP was expressed in BY-2 cells
estrogen-inducible promoter. Transformed BY-2 cell lines harboring  AS2 - YFP  and  YFP  constructs were incubated for 16 h in the presence of 0.05 μM 17-β-estradiol. Cells were fixed and stained with 4′6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), which is specific for nuclei. Fluorescence of DAPI ( blue ) and fluorescence of YFP ( yellow ) in BY-2 cells at the different cell cycle stages are visualized by using confocal fluorescence microscopy. Merged images ( blue  DAPI,  yellow  YFP)
role in the formation of AS2 bodies in interphase cells To seek for internal regions of the AS2 protein that might be responsible for its sub-nuclear localization patterns, we introduced a series of deletions into the AS2 moiety in AS2-YFP (Fig.  2 a) and investigated the localization patterns of signals from the YFP fusions (Fig.  2 b). As shown in Fig.  2 b(ii), 66.1% of
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Materials and methods Construction of plasmids carrying the  AS2  sequence and its derivatives To express YFP fusions in cells, full-length  AS2  cDNA and its truncated cDNA fragments, which are shown in Fig.  2 a, were PCR-amplified with specific primer pairs (Table S1 and Fig. S1) and cloned into YFP fusion vector pEYFP (CLONTECH, Mountain view, CA, USA). Structures of all constructs were verified by sequencing. The resulting  AS2 - EYFP  and truncated  AS2 - EYFP  cDNA fragments were subcloned into the binary vector pER8 (Zuo et al.  2000 ). Cell culture and transformation The tobacco cell line BY-2 was maintained in suspension culture at 26°C in the dark with weekly subculturing in
no effect on transgene expression (data not shown). Independent transformants were separately subcultured in liquid LS medium containing 0.05 μM 17-β-estradiol for 16 h at 26°C in the dark. Several lines expressing YFP fusions were selected and analyzed. Fluorescence microscopy For DAPI staining, cells were fixed with 3.7% paraformaldehyde in sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.2) for 15 min and stained with 0.2 μg/ml of 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI). Images were recorded by confocal microscopy with a
