ABSTRACT:
to the LisH motif (CTLH) complexes in humans and budding yeast. Microscopic analysis of GFP-AtRanBPM  in vivo  and immunofluorescence localization of endogenous AtRanBPM protein in cultured cells and seedlings of  Arabidopsis  showed mainly cytoplasmic and nuclear localization. Absence of colocalization with γ-tubulin was consistent with the biochemical data and suggests another than a centrosomal role of the AtRanBPM protein. Conclusion We showed that as yet uncharacterized  Arabidopsis  RanBPM protein physically interacts with LisH-CTLH
RESULTS:
LisH-CTLH domain-containing proteins and armadillo-repeat-containing proteins. In vivo localization of GFP-AtRanBPM and AtRanBPM immunofluorescence labelling in Arabidopsis cultured cells and seedlings In cultured cells of  Arabidopsis,  the GFP-AtRanBPM signal was localized in the cytoplasm and in the perinuclear area of interphase cells, with a weaker signal detected in nuclei (Figure  5 A). We observed no gain-of-function phenotype of  Arabidopsis  seedlings expressing GFP-AtRanBPM from Gateway vectors. Similarly to cultured cells, the GFP-AtRanBPM signal was localized in the cytoplasm, in nuclei and accumulated in the vicinity of nuclei in dividing zone of roots (Figure  5 B). In differentiated root cells, GFP-AtRanBPM was cytoplasmic and in the perinuclear area (Figure  5 C, Additional file  7 ). C-terminal GFP fusions showed a similar localization pattern when expressed transiently in cultured cells of  Arabidopsis  (Additional file  8 ). Figure 5 In vivo localization of GFP-AtRanBPM in Arabidopsis cells and seedlings. A - Localization of GFP-AtRanBPM in  Arabidopsis  suspension culture. The protein is localized in the cytoplasm and in the perinuclear area. Weaker signal is present in nuclei.  B - Root tip of 8 days old  Arabidopsis  plant. Weak cytoplasmic signal for GFP-AtRanBPM is enriched in the perinuclear area.  C - Cytoplasmic and perinuclear localization of GFP-AtRanBPM in differentiated cells of root. Bars = 10 μm. Immunofluorescence analyses showed that the AtRanBPM protein was distributed patchily in the cytoplasm and nuclei; in non-dividing cells it accumulated in the perinuclear region and in dividing cells, the signal was slightly enriched in the area of the mitotic spindle and the phragmoplast (Figure  6 A). Further we compared localization of the endogenous protein and GFP-AtRanBPM by double labelling with anti-AtRanBPM and anti-GFP antibodies. We confirmed a similar localization pattern for AtRanBPM and expressed AtRanBPM with a cytoplasmic signal slightly enriched in the perinuclear area and a weaker nuclear signal (Figure  6 B). Figure 6 Immunolocalization of AtRanBPM in Arabidopsis cultured cells.
for AtRanBPM was cytoplasmic with slight accumulation in the vicinity of nuclei and in dividing cells with slight enrichment in spindle and phragmoplast area. (AtRanBPM – green, chromatin – blue).  B - Double immunofluorescence analysis of cells expressing GFP-AtRanBPM confirmed similar localization pattern for expressed GFP protein and for endogenous
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Platinum Pfx DNA Polymerase (Invitrogen). The PCR primers with  attB  sites (underlined) were designed according to the manufacturer’s intruction, forward 5’ – GGGG ACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCT TCATGAACTCTTCACCACCACCG – 3’, reverse 5' – GGGG ACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGT CTTAGTCTCCATTCAGTGACCGCCTTTC – 3’ for N-terminal GFP fusion and for C-terminal GFP fusion forward 5' – GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCATGAACTCTTCACCACCACCG – 3’, reverse 5' – GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCTTAGTCTCCATTCAGTGACCGCCTTTC – 3´. PCR products were isolated using QIAquick gel extraction kit (Qiagen) and afterwards cloned by Gateway technology (Invitrogen). Gateway binary vectors pK7WGF2,0 for N-terminal GFP fusion, pMDC43 for C-terminal GFP fusion [ 53 ] were used. Stable transformation of cell suspension cultures and plants Arabidopsis  suspension cultures of Landsberg erecta ecotype stably expressing GFP-AtRanBPM or transiently expressing AtRanBPM-GFP were prepared according to the protocol of Mathur et al. [ 30 ]. Arabidopsis plants Landsberg erecta ecotype were transformed by the floral-dip method [ 31 ]. Preparation of protein extracts and its fractionation by differential centrifugation Cultured suspension
to gain supernatants S200 and pellets P200 when needed. For differential centrifugation, pellets were resuspended in a volume of extraction buffer equal to the volume of the corresponding supernatants; equal sample volumes were loaded on SDS-PAGE gel. Immunoprecipitation of GFP-AtRanBPM Cell extracts S20 (~ 4 mg protein/mL) were used directly or solubilized by 1% NP-40 (Calbiochem) for 1 h at 4 °C. Immunoprecipitations of GFP-AtRanBPM protein were then performed using GFP-Trap_A (ChromoTek) according to the manufactures’ instructions. GFP immunopurification from extracts S20 of wild type Ler  Arabidopsis  culture was used as a negative control. Protein digestion and mass spectrometry The analysed protein bands were cut out of the Ag-stained SDS-PAGE gels, trypsin-digested and the proteins were identified by peptide mass mapping as described elsewhere [ 54 ]. Alternatively, eluates from the GFP trap were denatured in 8 M urea and digested overnight using trypsin. After desalting the resulting peptides were separated using the Ultimate HPLC system (LC Packings) on a Magic C18AQ column. The eluent from the column was spotted directly onto PAC-target using a ProteineerFC spotting device (Bruker Daltonics). Automatic MALDI MS/MS analyses were performed on an Ultraflex III TOF/TOF (Bruker Daltonics) and the proteins were identified by searching MS/MS spectra against  A. thaliana  subset of NCBI database using the in-house Mascot program (Matrixscience). The high resolution MALDI spectra were acquired on an APEX-Qe 9.4 T FTMS instrument (Bruker Daltonics). Electrophoresis and immunoblotting Protein samples after addition of appropriate sample buffer were separated either on 10% SDS-PAGE gels [ 55 ] or on 3-10% non-denaturing PAGE gels as described previously in Drykova et al. [ 38
peptide of AtRanBPM amino acid sequence (CSTNPNKKDVQRS), raised in rabbits and purified with immunogenic peptide coupled to protein A sepharose beads (GeneScript) and used in dilution 1:100 for Western blotting from non-denaturating PAGE, 1:300-1:500 for Western blotting from SDS-PAGE. Anti-GFP ab290 (Abcam) was diluted 1:2,000. Secondary anti-Rabbit IgG ECL Antibody, HRP Conjugated (GE Healthcare) was diluted 1:10,000; Super Signal West Pico Chemiluminiscent Substrate (Thermal Scientific) was used according to manufacturer’s instructions. Alternatively, SDS-PAGE gels were stained with silver, and the selected protein bands analysed by MALDI-MS. Immunofluorescence Arabidopsis thaliana  suspension cultures were fixed for 30 min using 3.7% paraformaldehyde and processed for immunofluorescence labelling according to Binarová et al. [ 56 ]. Primary antibodies used: mouse anti-α-tubulin monoclonal antibody DM1A (Sigma) diluted 1:500, mouse monoclonal anti-γ-tubulin TU-32 (kindly provided by Pavel Dráber, IMG, Prague, Czech Republic) diluted 1:10, mouse anti-GFP antibody (Abcam) diluted 1:1,000, and mouse antibody against human Ran protein (BD Transduction Laboratories) diluted 1:1,000. Anti-AtRanBPM antibody was used in a dilution 1:1,000, anti-rabbit or anti-mouse secondary antibodies DyLight 488 or DyLight 549 (Jackson Immuno Research Laboratories) were
cubes for DyLight 488 and HQ 545/30 exciter and HQ 610/75 emitter filter cubes for DyLight 549 (both AHF AnalysenTechnique). Confocal images were taken on Olympus FluoView FV1000 based on IX81 microscope using PLAPO 100x/1.45 and UPLSAPO 60x/1.35 objectives. GFP was excited by 473 nm solid state laser and its emission was detected from 485 to 545 nm. Images were processed and analysed using CellR and FV10-ASW (Olympus). Adobe Photoshop 7.0 was used for preparation of figures. Database
