ABSTRACT:
functions of PLA 2 α  in planta  are poorly understood. The present study shows that PLA 2 α possesses unique characteristics in terms of spatiotemporal subcellular localization, as compared with the other paralogs that remain in the ER and/or Golgi apparatus during secretory processes. Only PLA 2 α is secreted out to extracellular spaces, and its secretion to apoplasts is modulated according to the developmental stages of plant tissues. Observation of PLA 2 α-RFP transgenic plants suggests
PLA 2 α localizes mostly at the Golgi bodies in actively growing leaf tissues, but is gradually translocated to apoplasts as the leaves become mature. When  Pseudomonas syringae  pv.~ tomato  DC3000 carrying the avirulent factor  avrRpm1  infects the apoplasts of host plants,
RESULTS:
mature leaves, they were detected primarily in the apoplasts ( Figure  2B ). Even after cell plasmolysis was induced by treatment with 1 N KNO 3  for 5 min, the PLA 2 α-RFP signal remained in the extracellular spaces or diffused into the gap between the cell wall and the plasma membrane that is induced by plasmolysis ( Figure  2C ). These
into the expanded apoplasts due to plasmolysis. White arrows in  (C)  indicate the plasmolyzed plasma membrane, whereas black arrows indicate extracellular spaces. Fluorescent (top), bright field (middle), and merged images (bottom) are presented. Bars = 20 μm. CO-LOCALIZATION OF PLA 2 α WITH A GOLGI MARKER As secretion of proteins to apoplasts is known to occur through ER and Golgi bodies, PLA 2 α-RFP signals were mostly detected at the Golgi bodies in pre-mature young leaves ( Figure  2A ). However, the fluorescent spots become gradually bigger as the leaves become mature, leading us to suspect that they may be other cellular organelles. To investigate if the big PLA 2 α fluorescent spots are real Golgi bodies, we performed co-localization assay of PLA 2 α with a Golgi body marker, sialyltransferase (ST). Close-to-mature leaves of transgenic  Arabidopsis  plants expressing both PLA 2 α-RFP and ST-GFP were observed with a laser scanning confocal microscope. As shown in  Figure  3 , big spots of PLA 2 α-RFP signals are mostly overlapped with the spots of a Golgi body marker (ST-GFP), confirming that PLA 2 α is localized in Golgi apparatus before secretion to the apoplasts. We found that the apparent big size spots result from aggregation of several Golgi bodies and strong brightness of RFP-fluorescence. Aggregation of Golgi bodies appears to be gradually enhanced as the leaves become mature. FIGURE 3  Co-localization of PLA 2 α-RFP with ST-GFP, a Golgi body marker . Close-to-mature leaves of transgenic  Arabidopsis  plants expressing both PLA 2 α-RFP and ST-GFP were observed with a laser scanning confocal microscope. PLA 2 α-RFP signals are mostly overlapped with ST-GFP, a Golgi body marker. ST-GFP  (A) , PLA 2 α-RFP  (B) , bright field  (C) , and merged image  (D)  are presented. Bar = 20 μm. PLA 2 α TRANSLOCATES TO APOPLASTS IN RESPONSE TO THE INOCULATION OF AVIRULENT BACTERIA As leaves become mature, PLA
 Pst-avrRpm1  (C)  compared to the no-treatment control  (A)  and 0.015% Silwet/10 mM MgCl 2 -treated mock  (B)  in pre-mature young leaves where PLA 2 α is normally localized primarily in Golgi bodies. Fluorescent (top), bright field (middle), and merged images (bottom) are presented. Bars = 20 μm. FIGURE 5 Enhanced translocation of PLA 2 α to apoplasts in response to the inoculation of  Pst-avrRpm1  in close-to-mature leaves. 
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Fe(CN) 6 , 10 mM EDTA, and 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100] and incubated for 12 h at 37°C due to its weak staining. After GUS staining, 100% ethanol was used to remove the chlorophyll. SUBCELLULAR LOCALIZATION OF PLA 2 α-RFP IN  ARABIDOPSIS To investigate the dynamics of  PLA 2 α subcellular localization, transgenic  Arabidopsis  plants carrying  Pro35S::PLA 2 α-RFP were generated ( Lee et al., 2010 ). Leaf tissues from the  PLA 2 α-RFP transgenic  Arabidopsis  plants were viewed at different developmental stages using a laser scanning confocal microscope (Meta system, Zeiss) after incubation in water or 1 N KNO 3  for 5 min to trigger plasmolysis. RFP-fluorescence was excited at 543 nm and the emitted fluorescence was collected with a band-pass filter at 560–615 nm. CO-LOCALIZATION ASSAY OF PLA 2 α-RFP AND ST-GFP To investigate whether PLA 2 α-RFP proteins are co-localized with a Golgi marker ST-GFP, transgenic  Arabidopsis  plants expressing both PLA 2 α-RFP and ST-GFP were generated ( Lee et al., 2010 ). Close-to-mature leaves of 3-week-old transgenic plants were observed with a laser scanning confocal microscope (Meta system, Zeiss). RFP and GFP fluorescence was detected using at 543/560–615 nm and 488/505–530 nm excitation/emission filter sets, respectively. BACTERIAL INOCULATION OF PLANTS Pseudomonas syringae  pv.  tomato  DC3000 carrying  avrRpm1  ( Pst-avrRpm1 ) were obtained from Y. J. Kim
inoculated by spreading a bacterial suspension (1 × 10 8  CFU ml -1  in 0.015% v/v Silwet L-77 and 10 mM MgCl 2 ) onto the adaxial leaf surfaces of  Arabidopsis  carrying  Pro35S::PLA 2 α-RFP. Plants designated as NT were given no treatment, whereas mock plants
