ABSTRACT:
Background The two highly similar Arabidopsis apyrases AtAPY1 and AtAPY2 were previously shown to be involved in plant growth and development, evidently by regulating extracellular ATP signals. The subcellular localization of AtAPY1 was investigated to corroborate an extracellular function. Results Transgenic Arabidopsis lines expressing  AtAPY1  fused to the SNAP-(O 6 -alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase)-tag were used for indirect immunofluorescence and AtAPY1 was detected in punctate structures within the cell. The same signal pattern was found in seedlings
RESULTS:
apy2/apy2; SPIK::AtAPY2)  could be rescued by transformation with  AtAPY1 - SNAP  or  AtAPY1-GFP  making the DKO-SNAP and DKO-GFP plants suitable tools for localization studies. AtAPY1 is present in punctate structures, but not at the plasma membrane or extracellular space For localization of AtAPY1 at the subcellular level by confocal microscopy, living DKO-SNAP seedlings were incubated with SNAP-compatible fluorescent substrates to label the AtAPY1-SNAP fusion protein. Two cell-permeable, fluorescent substrates were used: red fluorescent tetramethylrhodamine-Star and the green
cell wall and entered the cell, but even 14-h washing steps could not remove the excess fluorescent substrate (data not shown). Therefore, indirect immunofluorescence was chosen as a different approach. DKO-SNAP seedlings were fixed. After cell wall digestion and plasma membrane permeabilization, they were incubated with primary antibodies against the SNAP-tag. Following several washing steps, FITC-labeled
bright field image of the same epidermal section of a cotyledon from an  AtAPY1-GFP  overexpressing seedling grown under alkaline conditions are shown representative of the imaging results from three seedlings. Doughnut- or horseshoe-shaped fluorescent structures typical of Golgi stacks imaged from the top are indicated by white arrows. To overcome the weak expression levels of  AtAPY1 , the indirect immunofluorescence approach was repeated with transgenic plants expressing  AtAPY1 - GFP  under the control of
the cell wall and at the plasma membrane and in the control without primary antibody (Figure  2 D). To verify the imaging data obtained by immunofluorescence, a second detection method was used. The transgenic plants expressing  AtAPY1 GFP  were imaged  in vivo 
The method of live imaging of GFP-tagged proteins is suitable to detect apyrase in the cell wall as shown for apoplastic apyrases in other plant species [ 16 , 54 ]. But since AtAPY1 was expected to be localized extracellularly and since GFP does not fluoresce at  pH ≤5.0 [ 55 ], a weak AtAPY1-GFP signal could be missed if the tag were exposed to the acidic environment of the cell wall. To provide an optimal pH for GFP fluorescence in the extracellular environment, WT protoplasts and those expressing  AtAPY1-GFP  were prepared from cotyledons and imaged at pH 7.6. As before, intracellular GFP signals were found (Figure  2 G) which did not appear in the WT control (Figure  2 H), but the plasma membrane of the
35S::AtAPY1-GFP  were grown in liquid culture at pH of 8.1 instead of 5.7. The higher pH in the culture medium is known to recover GFP fluorescence in the apoplast [ 38 ]. However, even under these conditions, no extracellular GFP signal was detectable (Figure  2 I). In addition,  35S::AtAPY1-GFP  seedlings were cultured under normal conditions to minimize any impact the alkaline culture medium may have on AtAPY1 distribution and infiltrated with buffer of pH 7.5 just for imaging. Again no extracellular signals were found in more than
was localized in these organelles, the dye FM4-64 was applied. FM4-64 is endocytosed by the cell, sequentially staining the plasma membrane, endosomes and the  trans -Golgi network, but not the Golgi apparatus [ 58 ]. Imaging FM4-64-infiltrated  35S::AtAPY1-GFP  seedlings did not reveal any co-localization of the fluorescent dye and the GFP signal, even 120 min after the infiltration (Figure  3 A and corresponding scatterplot in Figure  3 E). Figure 3 Identification of AtAPY1-positive structures as Golgi.  CLSM images of epidermal cells from cotyledons are shown. The GFP fluorescence is shown in green, the FM4-64  (A) , YFP  (B, D)  and RFP  (C)  fluorescence in magenta. The images from the
, 62 ]. Therefore, Rab E1d is believed to play a role in the trafficking of secretory vesicles from the Golgi to the PM [ 59 , 60 ]. In transgenic plants co-expressing  YFP-Rab E1d  and  AtAPY1-GFP , no overlap of the YFP and GFP fluorescence was found (Figure  3B  and corresponding scatterplot in Figure
bleed-through of the YFP fluorescence into the GFP detection channel (Additional file  5 B). These control experiments demonstrated the specificity of the GFP and YFP detection settings. In a direct localization approach, the occurrence of AtAPY1-GFP in the Golgi apparatus was investigated by co-localization with three known Arabidopsis Golgi-resident proteins. MEMB12 (Membrin 12) and SYP32 (Syntaxin of plants 32) are SNARE proteins localized in the Golgi apparatus [ 63 ]. Got1p (Golgi transport 1 protein) was found in the Golgi membranes of  Saccharomyces cerevisiae [ 64 ] and its homolog in Arabidopsis was also localized in the Golgi [ 32 ]. Transgenic plants co-expressing  AtAPY1-GFP  and either the Golgi marker  RFP-MEMB12  (Figure  3 C), the  YFP-SYP32  (Figure  3 D) or  YFP-Got1p homolog  (Additional file  6 ) were analyzed by confocal microscopy. The fluorescence of all three Golgi marker proteins overlapped with the AtAPY1 fluorescence, localizing AtAPY1-GFP to the Golgi apparatus. To exclude or confirm a co-localization not only by eye, the ImageJ software was applied. The overlays of the images from the two detection channels were used to generate scatterplots and to calculate the Pearson’s
YFP-Got1p homolog with AtAPY1-GFP. In order to confirm the co-localization results, AtAPY1-GFP was labeled with gold particles using α-GFP primary antibodies and secondary gold-coupled secondary antibodies. Electron microscopy of Tokuyasu cryo-sections through roots revealed weak, but specific staining of Golgi stacks (Figure  4 A,B). In sections through 56 Golgi compartments
in sections through 88 mitochondria (= 14 μm 2 ) and 12 nuclei (= 27 μm 2 ), respectively. Multivesicular bodies (MVB) were also positively immunolabeled by gold particles (Figure  4 C) which most likely reflects the transport of some AtAPY1-GFP to the vacuole as seen in other  GFP -overexpressing plants [ 59 ] rather than a functional role of AtAPY1 in this prevacuolar compartment. No immunolabeling of any other cellular compartment including the cell wall was found (Figure  4 D). In summary, the immunogold labeling studies of AtAPY1-GFP confirmed its localization in the Golgi and gave no indication of an extracellular occurrence. Figure 4 Confirmation of the Golgi localization of AtAPY1 by immunogold labeling.  ( A - D ) Transverse Tokuyasu-cryo-sections through root tips were imaged by TEM after imunogold labeling of AtAPY1-GFP using α-GFP antibodies (Torrey Pines) and Protein A 10-nm gold. Arrows mark gold
500 nm in  B-D . AtAPY1 has the substrate specificity typical of an endo-, not an ecto-apyrase If the Golgi localization of AtAPY1 were correct, AtAPY1 should exhibit the substrate specificity typical of Golgi apyrases. Therefore, the activity of AtAPY1-GFP was tested in the presence of known apyrase substrates at pH 6.5 which equals the pH found in the Golgi [ 55 ]. AMP is not a substrate for apyrases and for this reason served as a negative control. AtAPY1-GFP did not hydrolyze ATP and ADP, the typical substrates of ecto-apyrases [ 46 ], but the nucleotides uridine diphosphate
Hydrolysis of these three NDPs matches the substrate specificity of other plant Golgi apyrases, e. g. from rice ( Oryza sativa ) [ 66 ] and sycamore ( Acer pseudoplatanus ) [ 67 ]. Figure 5 Substrate specificity of AtAPY1-GFP.  The activity of AtAPY1-GFP in the presence of various substrates at
the N-terminus serving as a transmembrane anchor (Figure  6 A). This prediction was supported by the immunogold labeling results which suggested a membrane association of the protein (Figure  4 A-C). Figure 6 Analysis of the solubility of AtAPY1-GFP. (A)  The output of the TMHMM prediction program [ 69 ] is shown. The AtAPY1 aa sequence is represented along the x-axis
being the first residue. The probability for each aa to appear within a transmembrane domain (TM) is given. One TM is predicted which comprises the aa 21–43.  (B ) Microsomal membranes were prepared from transgenic plants containing  35S::AtAPY1-GFP . Equal amounts of membrane fractions were treated either with extraction buffer, 0.2% SDS, 2 M NaCl, 0.2 M Na 2 CO 3  or 4 M urea. After a 30-min treatment, the proteins were subjected to centrifugation at 100,000  g . The pellet fractions (P) and the supernatants (S) were separated in a 8% SDS polyacrylamide gel, blotted on a nitrocellulose membrane and incubated with α-GFP antibodies. The molecular weights of the protein standard are given in kDa. The AtAPY1-GFP protein (80 kDa) and a second band at 27 kDa (arrow) were detected with α-mouse IgG coupled with horseradish peroxidase. Similar results were obtained in three experiments with independent protein extracts. Microsomal membranes were isolated from transgenic  AtAPY1-GFP  seedlings and their purity was verified with antibodies against marker proteins for cytosolic and insoluble proteins (Additional file  8 ). The microsomal membranes were treated with various solubilizing agents and then analyzed for any solubilized proteins. Using α-GFP antibodies, a major signal was observed at the expected molecular mass of AtAPY1-GFP (80 kDa) and a minor signal at 27 kDa (Figure  6 B). The smaller protein most likely represents a degradation product of AtAPY1-GFP resulting from the protein extraction procedure. If the microsomal membranes were left untreated, AtAPY1-GFP was detected in the membrane fraction (Figure  6 B), suggesting that the protein was membrane-bound. In support of this finding, the detergent SDS released the majority of the AtAPY1-GFP protein from the membranes (Figure  6 B). In order to differentiate between AtAPY1 being a peripheral or an integral membrane protein, the microsomal membranes were subjected to high salt (2 M NaCl), alkaline (0.2 M Na 2 CO 3 )
treatment which is known to leach the soluble proteins from the microsomal lumen into the supernatant fraction as shown in [ 70 ]. Urea released some AtAPY1-GFP protein into the supernatant, but most of the protein remained in the membrane fraction (Figure  6 B). Although transmembrane proteins are generally not extracted by urea at all, type II integral proteins seem to be less tightly associated
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Steinebrunner et al. [ 17 ]. The symbol “+” refers to the WT counterpart of the mutant allele. Two types of apyrase DKO mutants were generated: DKO-SNAP (=  apy1/apy1; apy2/apy2 ;  SPIK::AtAPY2 ;  AtAPY1::AtAPY1-SNAP ) and DKO-GFP (=  apy1/apy1; apy2/apy2 ;  SPIK::AtAPY2 ;  35S::AtAPY1-GFP ). Both types of DKO mutants carried the  AtAPY2  gene under the control of the  SPIK  promoter. The details of the construct  SPIK::AtAPY2  were published in [ 18 ].  SPIK  is
-1 ) and kanamycin (30 μg mL -1 ). Hygromycin selected for the presence of  AtAPY1::AtAPY1-SNAP , PPT for the presence of  SPIK::AtAPY2  and kanamycin for the presence of  apy1  or  apy2. Generation of  AtAPY1-GFP -complemented apyrase DKO mutants (= DKO-GFP) The cloning of the  35S::AtAPY1-GFP  construct is described in detail in [ 28 ]. The ORF of  AtAPY1  without the stop codon was amplified by PCR and cloned into the pQE-30 vector (Qiagen). For the amplification of the  GFP  cDNA, the pBIN mGFP5-ER [ 29 ] served as the template. The PCR product was cloned in frame with the  AtAPY1  sequence already present in pQE-30 to enable a translational fusion of GFP with the C-terminus of AtAPY1. The resulting conjugated  AtAPY1-GFP  ORF was amplified and subcloned into the TOPO pCR2.1 vector (Invitrogen). The  AtAPY1-GFP  cDNA was released by  Eco RI digestion and cloned into the binary vector pLBJ21 [ 30 ]. The  AtAPY1-GFP  sequence is available as Additional file  2 . The transgenic line expressing the  GFP -tag alone is available from the Arabidopsis Resource Center (stock number CS9114). WT Wassilewskija plants were transformed with the help of agrobacteria containing the recombinant construct by the floral dip method [ 27 ]. Transformants (T1 generation) were selected on agar plates containing kanamycin (30 μg mL -1 ). For genetic complementation experiments, homozygous  AtAPY1-GFP  transgenic lines were crossed with  apy1  SKO plants hemizygous for the  apy2  mutation and carrying the  AtAPY2  cDNA under the control of the  SPIK  promoter (=  apy1/apy1; +/apy2 ;  SPIK::AtAPY2 ). Kanamycin-resistant progeny were genotyped by PCR.  Apy1  SKO plants containing the  AtAPY1-GFP  construct (=  apy1/apy1; +/+; 35S::AtAPY1-GFP ) were crossed with  apy2  SKO plants hemizygous for the  apy1  mutation and expressing  AtAPY2  under the control of the  SPIK  promoter (=  +/apy1; apy2/apy2; SPIK::AtAPY2 ). The progeny were selected on kanamycin and PPT. Screening for complemented apyrase DKO mutants For the screening for complemented apyrase DKO-SNAP and DKO-GFP mutants, genomic DNA was extracted from candidate plants as described elsewhere [ 31 ]. For detection of  AtAPY1 ,  AtAPY2 ,  apy1, apy2  and  SPIK::AtAPY2 , the used primer combinations are described in [
A1I1R (5’-GCGAGCTAGAAATACCACC-3’) yielding a PCR product of 1 kb. The presence of the  AtAPY1::AtAPY1-SNAP  construct was confirmed using the  SNAP -specific primer SNAPlokattB2R and the  AtAPY1 -specific primer A1E9F (5’-CCACTAGGAAGCGCAATAGA-3’) located in exon 9. The  35S::AtAPY1-GFP  construct was amplified using the  AtAPY1  forward primer A1E9F and a reverse primer located in the  GFP  sequence (GFP_rev 5’-TGTATAGTTCATCCATGCCATG-3’) resulting in a PCR product of 0.7 kb. Generation of transgenic lines co-expressing  AtAPY1-GFP  and either  YFP-(yellow fluorescent)-Rab E1d, -SYP32, -Got1p homolog  or  RFP - (red fluorescent protein)-MEMB12 Four transgenic lines generated by Geldner et al. [ 32 ] expressing either the marker  YFP-Rab E1d ,  YFP-Got1phomolog ,  YFP-SYP32  or  RFP-MEMB12  under the control of the  UBQ10  promoter were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. The lines were validated by antibiotic selection and genomic PCR as suggested by Geldner et al. [ 32 ]. Homozygous transgenic  35S::AtAPY1-GFP  plants were crossed with either homozygous  UBQ10::YFP-Got1p homolog, YFP-SYP32  or  RFP-MEMB12  plants. The F1 progeny were selected on agar plates containing kanamycin (30 μg mL -1 ) and either PPT (10 μg mL -1 ) for the crosses with the  YFP  fusion constructs or hygromycin (50 μg mL -1 ) for the crosses with the  RFP  fusion construct. Double resistant F1 seedlings were genotyped for the existence of the desired fusion constructs before analyzing them by confocal microscopy. Protoplast preparation Ten-day-old  35S::AtAPY1-GFP  transgenic seedlings from a liquid culture were digested over night at 18°C in buffer (0.4 M sorbitol, 20 mM HEPES-KOH pH 7.6, 2.5 mM EDTA, 5 mM MgCl 2 , 10 mM NaHCO 3 , 0.1% (w/v) bovine serum albumin, freshly added 1.6%
in the dark. FITC tyramides were prepared according to Pernthaler et al. [ 34 ] and kindly provided by Kerstin Röske. The samples were washed three times with PBS and stored for imaging in PBS. Whole mount immunofluorescence of AtAPY1-GFP Root tips of six-day-old  35S::AtAPY1-GFP  transgenic seedlings were fixed with 4% (w/v) PFA in 0.1 M phosphate buffer (PB, pH 7.4) for 30 min, 2 h in 8% (w/v) PFA ( [ 35 ]; Y-D Stierhof, personal communication) followed by postfixation in 80% methanol/20% DMSO (Dent’s fixative, [ 36 ]). Fixed samples were whole-mount immunolabeled with rabbit α-GFP (TP 401;
1:100) and then embedded in Technovit 7100 as previously described [ 37 ]. Three-μm sections were analyzed with the fluorescence microscope Keyence BZ 8000 (Additional file  3 ). Treatment with FM4-64 and alkaline pH Seven- to ten-day-old  35S::AtAPY1-GFP  transgenic seedlings were vacuum-infiltrated with 15 μM FM4-64 (Invitrogen) in 1 M Tris–HCl pH 8.0. For the alkali treatment, two approaches were taken: (1)  35S::AtAPY1-GFP  seedlings were cultured in regular liquid MS medium (pH 5.7) for five days, transferred to alkaline MS medium (pH 8.1) and grown for three more days before imaging [ 38 ] or (2) the seedlings were grown in regular liquid MS medium (pH 5.7) for eight days and infiltrated with tap water or Tris buffered saline (TBS) pH 7.5 for at least 2 h before imaging. CLSM (confocal laser scanning microscopy) For the imaging of DKO-SNAP plants (10 d old), the
settings as described for FITC. Spectral images of the WT and the DKO-SNAP samples were analyzed by linear unmixing with the dye separation tool of the Leica software (LAS1.8.2) to identify FITC-specific signals. Transgenic plant material containing the  35S::AtAPY1-GFP  construct were imaged with the Zeiss Axio Imager connected to the laser scanning microscope LSM 710 or 780 (Carl Zeiss). Six- to 10-d-old seedlings were imaged in water and protoplasts in sorbitol buffer pH 7.6 (see Protoplast preparation)
detectors (490 – 543 nm and 667 – 746 nm, respectively). For all dual labelings, narrow detector entrance slit bandwidths were chosen to avoid bleed-through of fluorescence emissions. Bright field-type images were acquired with the transmitted light detector. Immunogold labeling of AtAPY1-GFP Root tips of six-day-old  35S::AtAPY1-GFP  transgenic seedlings were fixed as described under “Whole mount immunofluorescence of AtAPY1-GFP”. Fixed samples were processed for Tokuyasu cryo-sectioning as described [ 41 ]. In brief, root tips were washed several times in PB, infiltrated stepwise into gelatine and cooled down on ice. Blocks with single root tips were cut on
grids were placed upside down on drops of PBS in a 37°C incubator for 20 min, washed with 0.1% (w/v) glycine in PBS (5x1min), blocked with 1%(w/v) bovine serum albumin in PBS (2x5min) and incubated with primary antibodies for 1 h (α-GFP: TP 401 from Torrey Pines, 1:50, or ab290 from Abcam, 1:50). After washes in PBS (4x2min), the sections were incubated with Protein A conjugated to 10-nm or 6-nm gold for 1 h, washed again in PBS (3x5s, 4x2min) and postfixed
calculated using the ITEM-software (Olympus). Alternatively, 200-nm-thin sections were mounted on glass slides and stained with α-GFP and goat α-rabbit Alexa Fluor 488 for fluorescence analysis on a Keyence BZ 8000 fluorescence microscope. Co-localization analysis Transgenic plants co-expressing  AtAPY1-GFP  and either  RFP-MEMB12 ,  YFP-SYP32 ,  YFP-GOT1p homolog  or  YFP-Rab E1d  were imaged by confocal microscopy and the obtained dual-channel images analyzed with ImageJ [ 40 ]. The corresponding scatterplots and Pearson’s correlation coefficients were generated with the “Colocalization Threshold” and “Coloc2” tool of ImageJ. Purification of AtAPY1-GFP For cultivation of starting material, 50 mg of seeds were grown in 50 mL of liquid medium in a 250-mL flask for 10 to 12 d. Seedlings were ground to a fine powder in liquid nitrogen using a mortar and pestle.
remove debris. The supernatant was centrifuged at 8,000  g  and 4°C for 10 min and the pellet was discarded. The supernatant was mixed 1:1 with 100% (v/v) glycerol to retain enzymatic activity and stored at −80°C. For purification of AtAPY1-GFP, 96-well microtiter plates coated with α-GFP antibodies (GFP-multiTrap plates, ChromoTek, Planegg-Martinsried, Germany) were used. Two hundred microliters of protein extract (4–6 μg μL -1 ) were added per well and incubated at 4°C under shaking (500 rpm) for 2 h or overnight.
substrates were purchased from Sigma and the stock solutions were prepared in water. The nucleotides were diluted in Tris-MES buffer (pH 6.5 or pH 5.5) to the desired concentration and added as 130-μL aliquots to each well of immobilized AtAPY1-GFP on the GFP-multiTrap plate. The reaction was incubated under shaking (500 rpm) at 30°C for 1 h. The released phosphate was assayed by transferring 60 μL of each reaction mixture to two separate wells on a new transparent 96-well microtiter plate
of the samples was read at 740 nm. To determine the background from phosphate contaminations and unspecific phosphatase activities, the reactions were run in parallel with WT protein extracts. The background absorbance readings were subtracted from the readings assayed with AtAPY1-GFP. Solubilization of microsomal membrane proteins Seedlings from 2 mg of  35S::AtAPY1 -GFP transgenic seeds were grown in 60 mL of liquid medium for two weeks and then ground in liquid nitrogen. The plant powder was suspended in 3 mL ice-cold protein extraction buffer (50 mM HEPES KOH pH 6.5, 5 mM EDTA, 0.4 M sucrose,
1 h. Primary and secondary antibodies were diluted with 1% (w/v) skim milk in TBS. After incubation of the membrane with the antibodies for 1 h each, it was washed three times for 10 min each with 0.1% (v/v) Tween-20 in TBS. AtAPY1-GFP was detected with monoclonal mouse α-GFP (1:1000; Roche), actin with monoclonal mouse α-plant actin 8 (clone 10-B3 MAbGPa; 1:1000; Sigma), cFBPase with polyclonal rabbit α- A. thaliana  cFBPase (1:1000; Agrisera). The secondary monoclonal goat antibodies α-mouse IgG and α-rabbit IgG, both conjugated with HRP
