ABSTRACT:
of their principal cargoes remain poorly understood. Here, we generated a functionally competent, fluorescent protein-tagged, myosin XI-K, and investigated its spatial distribution within  Arabidopsis  cells. This myosin was found to associate primarily not with larger organelles (e.g., Golgi) as was broadly assumed, but with endomembrane vesicles trafficking along F-actin. Subcellular localization and fractionation experiments indicated that the nature of myosin-associated vesicles is organ- and cell type-specific. In leaves, a large proportion of these vesicles aligned and co-fractionated with a motile endoplasmic reticulum (ER) subdomain. In roots, non-ER vesicles were a dominant myosin cargo. Myosin XI-K showed a striking polar localization at the tips of growing, but not mature, root hairs. These results strongly suggest that a major mechanism whereby myosins contribute to plant cell physiology is
RESULTS:
vesicle-like bodies moving along linear tracks (Figure  2 A; Movie  S1  in Supplementary Material). The remaining fluorescent material appeared in scattered patches. This distribution pattern suggested that most of the myosin XI-K:YFP pool is associated with endomembrane vesicles, whereas a relatively small fraction of myosin was present elsewhere in cytosol. Figure 2 Confocal images of the leaf midvein epidermal cells in 3KOR plants expressing XI-K:YFP and different compartment- specific markers .  (A)  In contrast to cytosolic GFP-GUS (left panel), XI-K:YFP (right panel) is associated with vesicle-like bodies shown in the boxed close-up inset.  (B)  Co-localization of XI-K:YFP and F-actin marker LifeAct-mTurquoise.  (C)  Co-localization of XI-K:YFP and Golgi marker NAG-mTurquoise.  (D,E)  Co-localization of XI-K:YFP and the ER-CFP marker in the leaf  (D)  and root  (E)  epidermis.  (F)  Co-localization of XI-K:YFP and secretory vesicle marker SCAMP2-mTurquoise. To determine if XI-K:YFP co-localizes with F-actin, the 3KOR plants were transformed to express microfilament
0.8, as well as a high degree of mutual overlap between the pools of XI-K:YFP and LifeAct-mTurquoise (mean Manders coefficients of 0.65 and 0.76; Table  S1  in Supplementary Material). An analogous co-localization analysis of XI-K:YFP and the Golgi marker NAG-mTurquoise showed that only a small fraction of the myosin pool was associated with Golgi stacks (Figure  2 C; Pearson coefficient of 0.13; Table  S1  in Supplementary Material). Furthermore, the fraction of XI-K:YFP overlapping Golgi was only 0.08, as defined by Manders coefficient (Table  S1  in Supplementary Material). These data indicate that Golgi stacks are not the primary cargo of myosin XI-K. It should also be emphasized that, as seen in the merged image (Figure  2 C), the vesicle-like bodies tagged with XI-K:YFP are smaller and much more numerous compared to NAG-mTurquoise-tagged Golgi stacks. Analysis of XI-K:YFP co-localization with the ER-CFP marker (Peremyslov et al.,  2010 ) revealed a dramatically different picture (Figure  2 D) of an extensive overlap (Pearson coefficient of 0.75; Table  S1  in Supplementary Material). Interestingly, although most of the myosin XI-K:YFP co-localized with ER (Manders coefficient of 0.90), a smaller fraction of ER overlapped with myosin (0.37; Table  S1  in Supplementary Material). This distribution pattern suggested that only a motile subdomain of ER was associated with myosin, whereas most of ER is myosin-free (Figure  2 D). It should be pointed out, however, that the organization of the myosin XI-K:YFP-decorated material was distinct from that of ER even in areas of maximal overlap (boxed areas in Figure  2 D). Whereas the myosin-associated particles had a “beads-on-a-string” appearance, ER exhibited a characteristic network of more flat cisternae. This difference
as beads. These data suggest that only a fraction of the ER is interacting with myosin. One possibility is that this fraction is composed of motile, ER-derived vesicles. To further explore the nature of the myosin-associated material, we investigated XI-K:YFP co-localization with vesicles labeled by the secretory carrier membrane protein 2 (SCAMP2), a marker of post-Golgi vesicle clusters observable by confocal microscopy (Toyooka et al.,  2009 ). To this end, we generated a SCAMP2 marker fused with mTurquoise
cargoes in this cell type. It should be accentuated that the SCAMP2-specific secretory vesicle clusters were comparable in size and appearance to myosin XI-K:YFP-tagged vesicular bodies (Figure  2 F). Previous research demonstrated the myosin XI-dependent nature of the Golgi and ER transport (Peremyslov et al.,  2010 ; Ueda et al.,  2010 ). In contrast, the first experimental indication of the
Figure  2  are vesicle clusters, in accord with a common agreement in this filed. Furthermore, the average size and pattern of the myosin XI-K:YFP-associated vesicular clusters are dramatically distinct from those of the larger organelles such as Golgi (cf. Figures  2 A,C), mitochondria, or peroxisomes. These organelles do not exhibit a “beads-on-a-string” appearance characteristic of motile, myosin-containing vesicular clusters. At ∼0.5 μm, these
typical elongated mitochondria (2–5 μm) present in  Arabidopsis  leaf cells. It looks likely that the myosin transport-competent vesicles include ER-derived, secretory, and possibly other vesicle types. Polarized myosin localization in growing root hairs A striking pattern of myosin XI-K:YFP localization was revealed in root hairs, which grow via a polarized elongation mechanism (Cole and Fowler,  2006 ; Tominaga-Wada
the 3KO mutant compared to control plants (Figure  3 G). Collectively, these data suggest that myosin XI-K is involved in long-distance transport of vesicles along F-actin bundles, and possibly in short-distance delivery to the plasma membrane of vesicles amassed at the tip of a growing root hair. In addition, the pattern and dynamics of myosin XI-K localization in root hairs shows striking similarity to those reveled in moss protonemal cells that also grow via polarized
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Materials and Methods YFP-tagged myosin XI-K,  Arabidopsis  transformation, and immunoblotting A genomic copy of the myosin  XI-K  gene (AT5G20490) tagged by insertion of the YFP ORF ( XI-K:YFP ) was generated as described for the FLAG-tagged XI-K (Peremyslov et al.,  2010 ). The YFP ORF was PCR amplified and inserted in a pMDC32 binary vector carrying a genomic copy of the  XI-K  using overlapping PCR. The resulting plasmid was mobilized into  Agrobacterium tumefaciens  GV3101 and used to transform the
 plants (Peremyslov et al.,  2010 ) by floral dipping. The identifiers for the T-DNA insertion lines used to generate 3KO plants were Salk_067972, Salk_019031, and Salk_055785, respectively. Transgenic plants designated 3KOR were selected using Hygromycin-containing medium and YFP imaging. Immunoblotting using a rabbit polyclonal XI-K antibody, rabbit polyclonal antibody to ER binding protein (BiP; a gift from Dr. J. Denecke), or mouse monoclonal GFP antibody (Roche) was done as described (Peremyslov et al.,  2008 ). All four originally selected, independent lines of transformed plants showed very similar levels of XI-K:YFP expression and virtually indistinguishable phenotypes. One of these lines was selected for all following analyses. To compare the expression levels of myosin XI-K in Columbia-0 to that of XI-K:YFP in 3KOR line plants, the immunoblots were quantified by measuring mean band intensity normalized to that of a loading control (BiP;  n  = 4 for each variant). The phenotypes of plant lines presented in Figures  1 D–F were
To generate transgenic lines expressing compartment-specific markers, a binary vector pCB301 was modified to accommodate an  UBQ10  promoter (Geldner et al.,  2009 ) and a polyadenylation signal, and used to generate N-terminal fusions of the mTurquoise fluorescent protein (Goedhart et al.,  2010 ) with the actin-binding domain LifeAct (Goedhart et al.,  2010 ), the transmembrane domain of  N -acetylglucosaminyl transferase I (NAG; Grebe et al.,  2003 ), or SCAMP2 (Toyooka et al.,  2009 ). An ER-targeted CFP was described before (Peremyslov et al.,  2010 ). The marker-expressing 3KOR plants were selected using glufosinate. The transgenic plant lines generated in Columbia or 3KOR genetic background had normal developmental phenotypes under optimal growth conditions. This was also
the LifeAct-mTurquoise plants in accord with recent independent work (van der Honing et al.,  2011 ). Confocal laser scanning microscopy The microscopy was done using a Zeiss LSM 510 microscope and a 63 × 1.4 NA objective. Plants expressing myosin XI-K:YFP and mTurquoise- or CFP-tagged markers were grown on vertical plates and used for imaging the lower midrib epidermal cells or root hairs. For YFP, the Argon laser was used with a 514 nm dichroic beam splitter and a 530–600 nm bandpass
and blue fluorophore signals, dual imaging of YFP and mTurquoise (or CFP) was done using the single track and a 405 nm Diode laser at 1% transmission power and Argon laser at 10% transmission power, respectively. We also used a HFT 405/514 nm beam splitter and a 420–480 nm bandpass filter for mTurquoise, and a 530–600 nm bandpass filter for YFP. To reconfirm that no bleed-through has occurred, a series of control scans for each sample was carried out. In these scans, either
Manders’ M1 and M2 coefficients are the percentage of pixels in one channel that overlaps with the signal in other channel (Bolte and Cordelieres,  2006 ). For the fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) analysis of plants expressing myosin XI-K:YFP or SCAMP2-YFP, all Argon laser lines (458, 477, 488, and 514 nm) and Diode 405 nm laser line were used simultaneously at 100% transmittance for 50 iterations at maximum scanning speed. The bleaching routine started with two pre-bleach scans followed by the bleaching
root fractionation as described by Preuss et al. ( 2004 ). Fractions were analyzed by immunoblotting using the following antisera to known organelle markers: rabbit polyclonal to ER BiP; rabbit polyclonal to Golgi marker SecP21 (Agrisera, Sweden); mouse monoclonal anti-GFP antibody to detect NAG-YFP and EYFP-RabA4b (Roche); rabbit polyclonal to RabA4b (a gift from Dr. E. Nielsen); rabbit polyclonal to pre-vacuolar compartment (PVC) marker Syp21 (a gift from Dr. N.V. Raikhel); rabbit polyclonal to the plasma membrane marker H + ATPase (Agrisera, Sweden); and mouse
