ABSTRACT:
weeks  in vitro.  Expression of P5CR-GFP under the control of the endogenous P5CR promoter was able to restore growth of homozygous  p5cr  mutant embryos. The analysis of P5CR-GFP-fluorescence  in planta  supported an exclusively cytoplasmatic localisation of P5CR. Conclusions Our results demonstrate that potential alternative pathways for proline synthesis or inter-generation transfer of proline are not sufficient to overcome a defect in proline biosynthesis from glutamate during pollen development. Proline biosynthesis through P5CS2 and
RESULTS:
lines represent the exponential function that was generated by least square fitting and was used for calculation of the half-life time of the enzymes. Expression of P5CR-GFP complements the  p5cr  T-DNA insertion lines and indicates a purely cytosolic localisation of P5CR Surprisingly, crossing of  p5cr  mutants with plants overexpressing a P5CR-GFP fusion protein under control of the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus (CaMV) 35S-promoter did not allow the generation of plants that were homozygous for the 
plants with the native promoter construct, although in the latter case the GFP signal was hardly discernible from autofluorescence signals in mature tissues. Analysis of GFP-fluorescence in isolated protoplasts and in mesophyll cells revealed a uniform cytoplasmatic distribution of P5CR-GFP under both hypoosmotic and hyperosmotic conditions (Figure  6 ). Figure 6 Subcellular localisation of P5CR.  Confocal images of protoplasts isolated in medium containing 0.45 M sorbitol and a water infiltrated leaf displayed in false
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
liquid MS medium supplemented with 3% (w/v) sucrose, 2x MS vitamin mix, 0.5 mg/l 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 0.5 mg/l benzylaminopurine and 0.2% (v/v) Plant Preservative Mixture (Plant Cell Technology, Washington, DC, USA) under constant agitation (100 rpm) in dim light. P5CR-GFP  constructs and imaging The open reading frame of  P5CR  or a genomic fragment containing 1700 bp of 5’ upstream sequence and the entire  P5CR  gene without the stop codon were amplified by PCR from
Carlsbad, CA, USA). Subsequently, the inserts were transferred from pENTR to pEarleyGate103 (CD3-685, ABRC), pGWB5 or pGWB4 [ 28 ] by LR-recombination (life technologies). Sequencing of the resulting constructs demonstrated in-frame fusion of  P5CR  to the  GFP  gene. Transformation of Arabidopsis plants by floral dip was performed according to [ 29 ]. Epifluorescence imaging was performed as described in [ 24 ]. For confocal microscopy, protoplasts were isolated from P5CR-GFP expressing transgenic plants and Col-8 according to the method described by [ 24 ]. Protoplasts or water-infiltrated leaves were viewed with a 40x oil immersion lens on a Zeiss LSM 510 Meta confocal microscope (Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany). GFP and
