ABSTRACT:
GFP-tagged ROF1 under the control of a 35S promoter was localised in the cytoplasm and the cell periphery of  Nicotiana tabacum  leaf explants. Immunofluorescence microscopy of  Arabidopsis thaliana  root tips verified its cytoplasmic localization and membrane association and showed ROF1 localization in the elongation zone which was expanded to the meristematic zone in plants grown on high salt media. Endogenous ROF1 was shown to accumulate in response to high salt treatment in  Arabidopsis thaliana
RESULTS:
embedded organelles mark in the cytoplasm and the cytoplasmic strands formed. A peripheral localization may also be observed, more clearly seen in a single confocal section ( Figure 6B ). ROF1 localization was distinct to GFP localization since no nuclear localization of the GFP tagged-ROF1 was observed ( Figure 6C ). In order to confirm the nature of the peripheral localization of ROF1, a plasmolysis effect caused by 0.25 M NaCl treatment was used. As it is shown (
transiently transformed and expressing GFP tagged ROF1 and GFP only. (A) Control (z-stack image projection), green: ROF1-GFP, red: chloroplast autofluorescence. (B) GFP-tagged ROF1 localization and bright field imaging (single confocal section) (C) GFP localization (single confocal section). N indicates nuclei. Scale bars: 10 µm. In order to further verify ROF1 subcellular localization immunofluorescence microscopy with  A. thaliana  root tips was used.  A. thaliana  seedlings were germinated on 0.8% agar media containing 1×MS and immunofluorescence microscopy
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
were eluted with Laemmli sample buffer containing 20 mM Tris-HCl pH 6.8, 2% SDS, 10% glycerol, 0.1 M DTT and 0.1% Bromophenol blue. Equal volumes were loaded onto SDS-PAGE. Gels were stained with silver nitrate (BDH, UK). For the MS sequencing purposes the gel was stained with colloidal Coomasie (Biorad, UK). Mass Spectrometry PIP binding candidates were identified using nanoLC ESI-MS/MS  [47] . The PI(3)P and PI(3,5)P 2  incubations of the 0.1S fractions were run on a denatured polyacrylamide gel and stained with colloidal Coomasie (Biorad, UK). Bands of interest were excised, reduced, carbamidomethylated, digested with trypsin and analysed by on-line nanoLC ESI-MS/MS. Tandem mass
Portland, USA) was used to validate MS/MS based peptide and protein identifications. Protein identifications were accepted if they could be established at greater than 95.0% probability and contained at least 2 peptides each identified at greater than 50.0% probability. ROF1 Cloning A ROF1 construct in the
bacteria overexpressed and purified ROF1. Digestion with factor Xa and Enterokinase (Invitrogen, UK) was performed according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Following digestion the entire amount of the collected protein was run on a polyacrylamide gel under denaturing conditions. Following Coomassie blue staining a clear band of the expected molecular size was cut from the gel and ROF1 was eluted from the polyacrylamide gel using the electroeluter 422 system (Biorad, UK). Rabbits were immunized with 300 µg denatured protein and
old seedlings germinated on normal MS media (results not shown). Their RNA was extracted, cDNA was prepared and Q-PCR was performed according to the manufacturer’s instructions using the Platinum Quantitative PCR SuperMix-UDG, SYTO9 (Invitrogen, USA) and the following primers: ROF1 forward: 5′CACCAATGTGAAGGCCTTATACC3; ROF1 reverse: 5′TCAAGACCTCAGGTGCTCATTGC3’;
A. tumefaciens  mediated transformation  [52]  and protein expression in tobacco leaves was performed. The ROF1 construct was prepared using the following primers where the Xba and the Sal1 restriction sites were introduced: Forward: 5′CTAGTCTAGAATGGATGCTAATTTCGAGATGCC3′ Reverse: 5′ACGCGTCGACAATTCCTTACTTAGTTTCGCAAACAT3′. GFP-tagged protein expression was confirmed by western blotting using a rabbit αντι-GFP polyclonal antibody (Chemicon, USA). Arabidopsis thaliana  Root Tip Preparation for Fluorescence Microscopy Entire seedlings (3–4 days old) were submerged in a Paraformaldehyde (PFA) solution prepared in 50 mM Pipes, 5 mM EGTA, 5 mM MgSO4 pH 7.0 KOH,
slides were placed in a dark humid chamber and immediately hydrated with a PBS buffer before applying 2% driselase in PBS and incubate for 45 mins at 37°C. After washing the driselase solution thoroughly, samples were incubated with 10% DMSO, 0.5% NP40 in PBS buffer for 1 hr at room temperature. Following removal of the permebilisation solution, 5% BSA was applied for 1 hr at room temperature followed by 1 hr incubation with αντι-ROF1 (1∶300) in 5% BSA at
(Jackson Immunoresearch, USA) for 4 hrs at 37°C. Following washing and DAPI (4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole) treatment, mounting solution (0.01% moviol in glycerol) was added and samples were observed under a fluorescence or confocal microscope. Fluorescence and Confocal Microscopy Localization studies of GFP-tagged ROF1 as well as immunofluorescence microscopy were performed using fluorescence and Confocal microscopy. Fluorescence microscopy was performed using an Axioskop 40 fluorescence microscope with a A-Plan Varel contrast 40x/0.65 (Zeiss, Germany). Images were captured using a ProgRes digital camera
bandwidth for RFP 574.2 nm - 620.1 nm. Fixed tissue imaging was performed using an HC X PLAPO CS 40.0×0.85 dry lens. Pinhole was 2, zoom 1.7 and resolution 1024×1024. Excitation was achieved using a 405 nm Diode for DAPI and a
510 confocal microscope with a EC Plan-Neofluar 40x/1.30 oil DIC M27 objective was used. Scan zoom was 2. Resolution was 1024×1024 with 8 bits/pixel. Excitation was achieved with a 488 Argon laser. Emission filters were the BP 505–530 for GFP and LP 615 for chloroplast autofluorescence. Plant Material and Transformed Lines Columbia wild type as well as the  rof1 −  heterozygous plants on a Columbia background, salk_003069, Sail_276_E11 and WiscDsLox502D06 of the Wisconsin DsLox T-DNA lines, were
