ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
Results The  ermo3-1  mutant develops huge aggregates of ER We isolated a recessive mutant that had defective ER morphology from chemically mutagenized GFP-h and designated it the  endoplasmic reticulum morphology3-1  ( ermo3-1 ) mutant. This mutant developed a huge aggregate of ER and a number of punctate structures on the peripheral meshwork of cotyledon cells ( Figure 1A ). This
in the ER and aberrant intracellular distribution of not only ER but also most organelles. 10.1371/journal.pone.0049103.g001 Figure 1 ermo3-1  developed a large aggregate composed of ER-derived aberrant structures and various organelles. ( A ) Transgenic  Arabidopsis  (GFP-h) expressing SP-GFP-HDEL was observed under a confocal microscope (left panels, WT).  ermo3-1  was isolated from chemically mutagenized GFP-h seeds and subjected to confocal microscopy (right panels). In GFP-h cells, the typical ER network (peripheral, inset) and ER bodies (medial, arrows) were seen. In  ermo3-1  cells, punctate structures (peripheral, arrowheads in inset) and huge aggregates (medial, open arrows) were seen in addition to the typical network and ER bodies. Bars, 10 µm. ( B ) Epidermal cells of petioles, hypocotyls, roots, and root hairs from 7-day-old  ermo3-1  developed ER-aggregates, as seen in cotyledons. Bars, 10 µm. ( C ) Transmission electron micrographs of GFP-h ( a ) and  ermo3-1  ( b ) cells. ER was usually seen as a thin structure in the periphery surrounded by ribosomes (arrowheads). ER bodies were recognized as large and relatively electron-dense compartments (inset). The 
Figure 2A ). In GFP-h, typical actin networks, which are composed of a number of thin filaments and several thick bundles, were seen ( Figure 2A , GFP-h). Similarly,  ermo3-1  also developed typical actin networks, and the ER strands were aligned on thick actin bundles. The aggregate in  ermo3-1  cells was caged and penetrated with actin filaments ( Figure 2A ,  ermo3-1
(latrunculin B, Lat B) did not suppress the formation of aggregates ( Figure 2B , open arrows). This inhibitor treatment induced the collapse of the ER meshwork, and the formation of abnormal ER structures as was also seen in GFP-h ( Figure 2B , arrowheads), but the inhibitor not affect the nature of ER-aggregates in  ermo3-1  cells. Our findings are summarized as follows: 1) the actin network was properly organized in  ermo3-1  cells, 2) ER
10 µm. ( B ) Seedlings of GFP-h and  ermo3-1  were treated with 100 µM of Latrunculin B (Lat B), an actin inhibitor, for 2 hours. Green arrowheads indicate Lat B-induced aggregates, which were derived from collapsed ER networks. In the presence of Lat B,
of this locus. Loss of mRNA expression in  ermo3-2  was also seen both in roots and aerial tissues ( Figure 3E ). We stably introduced the SP-GFP-HDEL protein into SALK_135215 and found that this line also contained ER-aggregates and ER-derived punctate structures, both of which were similar to those in  ermo3-1  cells ( Figure S2A ). We crossed  ermo3-1  with  mvp1-2
respectively. Conserved domains for catalytic triad and oxyanion holes are indicated by orange boxes. Φ indicates a putative glycosylation site. ( B ) RT-PCR using total RNA extracted from 7-day-old seedlings of GFP-h and  ermo3-1  amplified full-length ERMO3.  ermo3-1  transcribed two distinct mRNAs.  ACT1  was used for the internal control. ( C ) Sequencing results of mRNA transcribed in GFP-h and  ermo3-1  around the substitution site. Predicted protein sequences are also
( A ).  ERMO3  expression in  ermo3-2  was not detected and little in  mvp1-2  (***  P <0.0001). ( E ) Total RNA from seedlings (7-day-old), roots (2-week-old), and aerial tissues (2-week-old) of GFP-h and  ermo3-2  were subjected to qPCR.  ERMO3  expression was detected in all three tissues of Col-0, while none was detected in  ermo3-2 . *  P <0.01, **  P <0.001, ***  P
MODIFIED VACUOLE PHENOTYPE1  ( MVP1 [28] ) and  GOLD36   [29] , which encode a GDSL-lipase/esterase family protein. The  mvp1  and  gold36  mutants were identified by the aberrant morphology of vacuolar membrane (GFP-deltaTIP) and Golgi bodies (ST-GFP), respectively, which is consistent with our observation that various organelles including vacuoles and Golgi bodies were engulfed in the ER-aggregates in  ermo3 . The molecular mechanism by which these aggregates were formed remained unsolved in the report by
 [29] , while Agee  et al.  initially reported that this protein was localized at the ER, ER bodies, and tonoplast  [28] . The results of Marti  et al.  were based on experiments using GOLD36-mRFP transgenic plants, while Agee  et al.  based their results on MVP1-GFP transient expression assay data. We used another fluorescent protein, tagRFP, in combination with our knock-out allele,  ermo3-2 , under the 35S constitutive-expression promoter ( Figure S3A ). ERMO3-tagRFP labeled the vacuolar lumen and the ER, but not aggregates, indicating that this protein functioned well enough to suppress the formation of ER-aggregates. To reveal if labeling of the ER was an artificial effect of overexpression, we treated ERMO3-tagRFP expressing plants with a ribosome inhibitor (cycloheximide, CHX). After treatment for 2 hours, entire signals disappeared from the ER while the vacuolar lumen still fluoresced ( Figure S3A , right panel). This suggests that ERMO3-tagRFP was translated in the ER and transported to the vacuolar lumen, further supporting the conclusion of Marti  et al . ERMO3/MVP1/GOLD36 is a member of the GDSL-lipase/esterase family and appears to be a pseudoenzyme  [28] . We generated a cDNA encoding ERMO3 G59S  with an artificially introduced catalytic-center residue ( Figure S3B ). This protein was C-terminally fused with tagRFP and introduced into the  ermo3-1  mutant under control of the 35S promoter ( Figure S3C ). Confocal microscopy revealed that this fused protein was transported to the vacuole and complemented the  ermo3-1  mutant, suggesting that
has enzymatic activity. We concluded that ERMO3/MVP1/GOLD36 was transported to the vacuole, but the morphological defects exhibited by this mutant occurred in the ER (see  Figure 1C ). Thus, we then examined the importance of vacuolar transport of ERMO3-tagRFP in the maintenance of ER morphology. To do this, we generated an  ERMO3-Venus-HDEL  construct. A protein that bears the HDEL sequence at the C-terminus will exit the ER, go to the Golgi bodies, and immediately return to
(designated ERMO3-HA) that stably expressed hemagglutinin- (HA-) tagged ERMO3/MVP1/GOLD36. We confirmed the expression of the tagged proteins in seedlings, which we primarily used to observe ER morphology. Furthermore, to obtain comprehensive insights into the interactome of ERMO3/MVP1/GOLD36, we performed mass spectrometric (MS) analysis after the Co-IP analysis. When the cells were stained with FM4-64 for 3 hours, ERMO3-HA cells, like the non-transgenic control (NT, identical to Col-0), did not contain obvious aggregates, while  ermo3 -2 cells had fluorescent aggregates, confirming that the ERMO3-HA protein was functional ( Figure 5A ). Immunoblot analyses using either the anti-HA or anti-BiP (ER-resident protein as a control) antibody, followed by CBB staining, confirmed that ERMO3-HA was efficiently concentrated in the bound
only the bound fraction ( C ) from NT and ERMO3-HA, were separated by SDS-PAGE followed by either immunoblot analysis (IB; top and middle panels in [ B ], and [ D ]), silver staining ( C ), or Coomassie Brilliant Blue (CBB) staining (bottom panel in [ B ]).
loaded fractions. Interacting proteins identified by mass spectrometry are indicated in ( C ). GLLs, GDSL lipase-like proteins; JALs, jacalin-related lectins; MATHs, meprin and TRAF homology [MATH] domain-containing proteins. The bound fractions collected from each of the NT and ERMO3-HA were then separated by SDS-PAGE and silver stained ( Figure 5C ). We found several proteins that were specifically located in the ERMO3-HA precipitate (indicated by asterisks). To comprehensively identify ERMO3/MVP1/GOLD36-binding proteins, whole proteins were subjected to MS analysis. The identified proteins are listed in  Table S1 . Seed-storage proteins contaminated the homogenate and were misidentified as ERMO3/MVP1/GOLD36-binding proteins (shown in oblique letters), since we used young seedlings that occasionally still contained seed coats. In addition to the comprehensive assay, several major proteins seen in the ERMO3-HA precipitate were excised from the stained gel and individually subjected to MS analysis. Excised bands and the identified protein names are indicated in  Figure 5C  and in  Table S1  (bold oblique letters). Interestingly, most of
10.1371/journal.pone.0049103.g006 Figure 6 Development of ER bodies and ER-aggregates were highly correlated in  ermo3-1 . ( A ) and ( B ) Z-projected images ( A ) or confocal micrographs ( B ) of rosette leaves from 2-week-old GFP-h and  ermo3-2  plants. Enlarged views of boxed regions are shown in bottom panels ( a ) to ( d ). Arrows, open arrows, and arrowheads indicate ER bodies, ER-aggregate in  ermo3 , and aberrant punctate structures
Z-projection (upper row; bars, 50 µm) or peripheral section (bottom row; bars, 10 µm) of cotyledon epidermal cells from 2-week-old GFP-h and  ermo3-2  plants. ( D ) Summarized phenotypes of  ermo3  cells during cell development. ER body formation is regulated by a transcription factor named NAI1  [32]  and, in other words, the cells that
treatment in rosette leaves, where ER bodies are absent under normal conditions. Rosette leaves from 3-week-old plants were collected and incubated in MeJA-containing water ( Figure 7 ). After 2–4 days of incubation, ER bodies were clearly induced in GFP-h rosette leaves ( Figure 7A , GFP-h, indicated by arrows). ER bodies were also induced in 4-day-incubated  ermo3-1  rosette leaves and, notably, large aggregates of ER were co-induced ( Figure 7A ,  ermo3-1 , indicated by open arrows), suggesting that there is a
A ) Rosette leaves from 3-week-old plants were treated with 45 µM of methyl jasmonate (MeJA), or water as a solvent control, for the indicated number of days. 3D-reconstructed images are shown. MeJA treatment induced ER bodies in both GFP-h and  ermo3-1  cells (arrows). Notably, MeJA treatment co-induced ER-aggregate formation in  ermo3-1  cells (open arrows). ( B ) Higher magnification views of 4 day-treated  ermo3-1  cells are shown. Arrowheads indicate tangled ER, which
our Co-IP results, these proteins are suggested to be PYK10 complex components. ER-aggregation is the trigger of defective protein transport According to two previous reports  [28] ,  [29] , ERMO3/MVP1/GOLD36 might be involved in protein trafficking, as ST-GFP, secRFP, and GFP-PIP2a were mislocalized to the ER from the Golgi body, apoplast, and plasma membrane, respectively. To reveal if ERMO3/MVP1/GOLD36 was directly involved in protein transport, we fluorescently labeled Golgi bodies by crossing  ermo3-2  with ST-GFP-expressing Col-0 ( Figure 9 ). ST-GFP is a membrane protein localized to  trans -Golgi cesiternae and known to be dispersed to ER membrane when ER-Golgi protein transport is inhibited  [15] ,  [29] . In the cotyledonary epidermal cells of Col-0, ST-GFP clearly labeled Golgi bodies. In  ermo3-2  cells, as reported previously  [29] , ST-GFP labeled ER membranes as well as Golgi bodies, showing that ER-Golgi transport was inhibited in these cells ( Figure 9A ). Next we observed 2-week-old rosette leaves of Col-0 and  ermo3-2 . In wild type cells, as in cotyledonary cells, ST-GFP labeled Golgi bodies ( Figure 9B , ST-GFP). In  ermo3-2  cells, ST-GFP clearly labeled ER network in the cell with aggregates (enlarged in inset), while it did not in the cell without aggregates ( Figure 9B ,  ermo3-2 , indicated by an asterisk). It indicates that the defects in ER-Golgi
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
and Methods Plant materials and growth conditions Arabidopsis thaliana  (ecotype Columbia-0 and Landsberg  erecta ) was used as the wild type. Transgenic  Arabidopsis  GFP-h was generated as previously described  [22] . Mutant lines  ermo3 -2 (SALK_135215) and  mvp1-2  (SALK_030621) were provided by the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC) at Ohio State University. Surface-sterilized seeds were sown onto MS medium containing either 0.5% Gellan Gum (Wako, Osaka, Japan) or 1% agarose supplemented with  myo -inositol and 1% sucrose. Plants were grown at 22°C under continuous light. Isolation of  ermo3-1  and map-based cloning of  ERMO3/MVP1/GOLD36  were performed as previously described  [20] . Plasmid construction and transgenic plant generation CDSs encoding ERMO3/MVP1/GOLD36 were amplified from a GFP-h cDNA library using gene-specific primers. Amplified products were subcloned into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector using a Gateway TOPO Cloning kit (Invitrogen). The G59S mutation was introduced into  ERMO3/MVP1/GOLD36  in pENTR/D-TOPO using site-directed mutagenesis. The subcloned DNA constructs were introduced into plant expression vectors (pGWB560 or pGWB514, donated from Dr. Nakagawa of Shimane University) for fusing with tagRFP or HA, respectively. To generate ERMO3-Venus-HDEL, we first cloned  SP-Venus-HDEL  into pENTR/D-TOPO.  SP-Venus-STOMAGEN   [37]  was used as the template. HDEL was added by primer sequences. A Gly-Gly-Ala linker sequence containing  NcoI 
Arabidopsis  plants as previously described  [20] ,  [38] . Transformants were selected on plant growth media described above that contained the appropriate antibiotics. Protein expression of fluorescently-tagged constructs was confirmed under a fluorescence microscope. To confirm ERMO3-HA expression in seedlings, crude extracts from 7-day-old T2 plants (mixture of 20 individuals) of each transformant were subjected to immunoblot analysis, as described below. Fluorescence microscopy The fluorescent images were obtained with a confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM780 META; Carl Zeiss) with either a 100×1.45 numerical aperture oil-immersion objective or a 40×0.95 numerical aperture dry objective. Images were analyzed with ZEN2010 software (Carl Zeiss) and processed with ImageJ (NIH). Electron microscopy Seven-day-old seedlings of GFP-h and  ermo3-1  were fixed for 2 hours with 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde and 1% (v/v) glutaraldehyde in 0.05 M cacodylate buffer, pH 7.4. Procedures for electron microscopy were essentially the same as those described previously  [39] .
 [40] , 1∶2,000; anti-PBP1-C  [41] , 1∶10,000; anti-Thio, 1∶10,000; anti-HA(16B12) (Funakoshi, Japan), 1∶1,000; and anti-BiP  [42] , 1∶10,000. Silver staining was performed using a PlusOne Silver Staining Kit, Protein (GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences). Peptide preparation for tandem mass spectrometry analysis Individual protein bands in silver-stained gel were excised following in-gel digestion. For comprehensive protein identification, bound fractions were separated on a 3 cm SDS gel. Gels were separated into three fractions and subjected to in-gel digestion. Identified proteins
(v/v) formic acid in 50% (v/v) acetonitrile. The extracted peptides were combined and then evaporated to 10 µL in a vacuum concentrator. Mass spectrometric analysis and database search Liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) analyses were performed using the LTQ-Orbitrap XL-HTC-PAL system. Trypsin digests were loaded onto the column (100 mm internal diameter, 15 cm length; L-Column, CERI) using a Paradigm MS4 HPLC pump (Michrom BioResources) and an HTC-PAL Autosampler (CTC Analytics) and were eluted by a gradient of 5 to 45% (v/v) acetonitrile in 0.1% (v/v) formic acid for 26 min. The eluted peptides were introduced directly into an LTQ-Orbitrap XL mass spectrometer (Thermo) with a flow
