ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
Cell Wall Localization of AtGH9C1-GFP with and without CBM49 before and after Plasmolysis The deduced amino acid sequence of AtGH9C1 predicted the presence of a signal peptide at the N-terminus suggesting that the nascent polypeptide is imported into the endoplasmic reticulum and then secreted outside the cell. To elucidate experimentally the cellular localization of this protein and the role of the CBM in localization we generated fusions between the GFP and AtGH9C1 (with and without the CBM). The fusion protein
when the CBM is removed. Yellow arrows point to the fluorescence in the cell wall while the white arrows point to the position of plasma membrane after plasmolysis. There was a clear difference in the distribution of fluorescence from AtGH9C1-GFP fusion with the CBM ( Fig.6A )  vs.  without the CBM ( Fig 6B ). With the CBM, the fluorescence contours only some
). When  N. benthamiana  leaves were infiltrated as above and subsequently incubated in 1M sucrose (instead of water), the localization of fluorescence from AtGH9C1-GFP with the CBM showed no signs of alteration despite the retraction of the plasma membrane ( Fig. 6C ). In contrast, the localization of fluorescence from AtGH9C1-GFP lacking the CBM became diffused accumulating in extracellular regions as blotches of random sizes ( Fig. 6D ). No fluorescence was observed in the cytosol in either case. This contrasted with the distribution of fluorescence from the 35S:GFP alone, ( Fig. 6E ) which appears inside and outlining each cell very strongly. Thus, secretion AtGH9C1 to the cell wall was confirmed for both AtGH9C1-GFP
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
were selected in germination media containing kanamycin. The AtGH9C1/GUS construct was introduced also in the ethylene insensitive  ers -2-2 mutant by crossing it with the AtGH9C1/GUS transgenic in Columbia background. Seeds from F2 generation were screen in half-strength MS agar plates containing 10 uM ACC in the dark and seedlings that showed the tall hypocotyl phenotype were selected and assayed for GUS activity in the
1 mM MUG (4-methyl-umbelliferyl-β-D-glucuronide), was used in the assay according to the method of Jefferson et al.  [60] . Root and shoot tissues were collected and extracted to analyze GUS activity from transgenic AtGH9C1-GUS seedlings growing vertically in 1/2MS agar plates for 7 days. For the analysis of the effect of mannitol, sucrose or ethylene, the half-strength MS medium was supplemented with either 1%, 2%, 4% mannitol, 1%, 2% sucrose, 0.1 µM, 1
or 30 cycles with a denaturation step for 45 sec at 94°C, and an extension for 70 seconds at 72°C, Annealing was for 30 seconds at optimal temperature for each primer pair: AtGH9C1 48°C; Actin-11, 60°C. N-terminal and C-terminal GFP Fusion of AtGH9C1 with and without CBM For N-terminal GFP fusions the signal peptide was fused upstream of the GFP followed downstream by the rest of the  AtGH9C1 cDNA (with and without the CBM). For the C-terminal GFP fusions, the  AtGH9C1 cDNA (with and without the CBM) was fused upstream of the GFP after removing the stop codon and the 3′ UTR from the  AtGH9C1 cDNA. To prepare the C-terminal-GFP fusion, the pMDC83 vector was used. DNA segments of  AtGH9C1  cDNA, with and without the CBM were amplified by PCR and cloned upstream of the  GFP . The Fw primer was based on the 5′UTR of  AtGH9C1 . The Rv primer including the CBM was based on  AtGH9C1  last exon, excluding the stop codon (UAG). The Rv primer for the segment without
primers were designed with terminal restriction sites, BamHI and KpnI, respectively, for subsequent cloning into pMDC83. To prepare the N-terminal-GFP fusion, the pMDC45 vector was used. A stitching PCR approach was required to fuse the predicted signal peptide (SP), (MRKFGGSLFGVSLLLSVLLAAATAAÂEYYN) of AtGH9C1 (SignalP 3.0) upstream to the GFP gene and then fuse, downstream of the GFP, the rest of the  AtGH9C1 cDNA (with and without the CBM). This would allow for the secretion of the fusion protein to the cell wall. The  ∧  symbol represent the site for the endopeptidase. The GFP gene was amplified from pMDC45 using Fw and Rv primers. The Rv primer to stitch the  AtGH9C1  signal peptide to the N-terminus of  GFP , and the Fw primer to stitch the C-terminus of the GFP to the rest of AtGH9C1cDNA were both 60 bp ULTRAMERS™. The Fw and Rv primers to stitch all pieces together to be cloned into pMDC45 included, a KpnI and a PacI restriction sites, respectively. The Rv primer designed to
cycles with denaturation at 94°C for 30 seconds, annealing at Tm appropriate for primers for 30 seconds and elongation at 72°C for 3 minutes. Following amplification, gel electrophoresis and extraction from the gel, the three fragments: SP-GFP, GFP and GFP-AtGH9C1, were used as templates in a modified PCR reaction that included 50ng of each fragment, 24pM of the terminal primers and 2.5U Taq Polymerase as above. The PCR stitching fragment was confirmed on a 0.6% gel, isolated and subcloned into a pSTblue-1 vector (Novagen) blue according to the manufacturer’s instruction. The clones containing the stitching fragments (SP-GFP and GFP-AtGH9C1) were sequenced to confirm that were fused in frame to yield the expected amino acid sequence. Sequencing was performed on a Biosystems DNA Sequencer model 3730 (UMBI DNA sequencing facility) using a T7 promoter primer (1 pM/µl). See the
at 30°C. Individual colonies were screened by colony PCR, in which after touching and boiling for 5 minutes, the supernatant (2 µl) was used as template for PCR reaction with the appropriate primers. Plant Transient and Stable Transformation with AtGH9C1-GFP Fusion Constructs Nicotiana benthamiana  plants (4–5 week old) were used to examine transient expression of the GFP constructs in leaf epidermal cells  [61] . The GV3101 strains carrying the appropriate clones were grown on Luria broth (LB)
Three ml of each culture were centrifuged at 6000 rpm for 15 minutes and the pelleted cells resuspended in infiltration medium (10 mM CaCl2, 10 mM MgCl2, pH 5.7) to an O.D. of 0.8. Then, acetosyringone (3′, 5′-Dimethoxy-4'-hydroxyacetophenone) in DMSO (Phytotechnology Laboratories) was added to the suspension at 70 µM final concentration and left at room temperature for 3 hours without shaking. The abaxial side of
½ MS media agar plates with hygromycin (40 µg/ml). At least 5 independent transformant lines were collected for each and F2 generation seeds were used for further studies. Transformation was confirmed in seedlings by surveying GFP florescence using an EPI fluorescence micrscope. Root Length Measurements Seedlings were grown in control half-strength MS media using large petri dishes (150 mm × 15 mm), kept vertically for up to 10–12 days. The dish base was divided into two half so that
the image at 10x magnification under transmitted light. After the sample was focused the transmitted light was turned off and the blue excitation light with a GFP filter was turned on. Once the desired image was observed, image scanning (‘SCAN’ icon) was performed with the argon laser (488 nm). The ‘FITC dual with Rhodamine’ single track configuration (‘CONFIG’ icon) was used to scan the GFP signal (BP505-550 emission filter) as well as the red chlorophyll autofluorescence (LP 560 emission filter). The transmitted light image was scanned simultaneously through a different channel. A ‘Single Scan’ with line averaging of 8 was used to obtain the
