ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
4D–F , and the composite PI-YFP images is shown in  Fig. 4G–I . Taken together, and in agreement with previous studies described for  ASK1   [47] ,  [48] , YFP:ASK3 proteins accumulate in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm in epidermal leaf cells of Arabidopsis. We observed no overlap between the YFP and chlorophyll auto-fluorescence signals, suggesting that the extra-nuclear YFP:ASK3 fusion protein does not detectably localize to the chloroplast and largely accumulates in the cytoplasm. 10.1371/journal.pone.0050984.g004 Figure 4 Confocal imaging and sub-cellular localization of ASK proteins in transgenic Arabidopsis. A&C ; Propidium iodide-stained epidermal root cell walls or leaf epidermal cell walls and guard cell nuclei.  B ; Chlorophyll auto-fluorescence from the leaf mesophyll cell layer.  D–F ; stable expression of N-terminal YFP-tagged ASK3 protein in transgenic Arabidopsis.  G–I ; merged channels corresponding to panels ( A–C ) and ( D–F ). This same pattern of YFP fusion protein accumulation in the nucleus and cytoplasm, with no significant localization to chloroplasts was reiterated across all other YFP:ASK gene fusions assessed ( ASK1,2,3,4,5,6,8, 9,10 ) with the exception of  ASK8  (see  Figure S5 ). The YFP:ASK8 protein fusion, when expressed in transgenic Arabidopsis was found to apparently aggregate predominantly in the nuclei of epidermal leaf cells, resulting in highly localized and intense YFP signals. Notably, these aggregates were not observed in root tissues of the
factors  [5] ,  [49] , which is consistent with our observation of a general nuclear localization of YFP-ASK fusion proteins. To investigate whether N-terminal fusions could mask nascent localization signals, C-terminal CFP fusion constructs using the  ASK1  coding region were generated, and a similar localization pattern was observed following transient expression in
The results summarizing binary protein interactions involving the remaining 40 F-Box-ASK combinations are depicted in the interaction map shown in  Fig. 5Q . For all protein interactions involving COI and TIR1, the YFP signal was restricted to the nucleus, whereas all other F-Box-ASK protein combinations were observed in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus. Also noteworthy was the finding that SKP2a interacted with ASK3 in the split-YFP system but not with ASK4, notwithstanding the high degree of deduced primary amino acid sequence similarity between these two ASK polypeptides (94.5%). Considering that all ASK
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Materials and Methods Plant Material and Growth Conditions Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was used throughout the study (ABRC stock No. CS7000). Seeds were sterilized by brief sequential washes in 50% ethanol and 50% Bleach/SDS prior to plating on 0.5X MS medium  [26]  containing 1% sucrose, and 0.8% agar. Seeds from treated plants were harvested, sterilized and stratified at 4°C for 2–3 days prior to plating and germination on solid 0.5X MS
were subsequently selected for each analysis. Plasmid Construction For all expression constructs, a summary of standard gene nomenclature and molecular constructs are summarized in Table S1. For  35S-YFP-ASK(s)  plasmid assembly, Gateway™-compatible cDNA clones were obtained from the ABRC stock center (Columbus, OH; see Table S1) and were cloned into pEarleyGate104  [28]  using the commercial Gateway™ recombination system (Invitrogen). To assemble  35S-ASK1-CFP, 35S-TIR1-CFP  and  35S-CUL1-CFP  constructs, termination codons were first removed from the cDNA clones by PCR amplification of the coding region using the indicated primers (Table S2). Amplified PCR products were subsequently cloned into pDONR221 using the Gateway™ recombination system prior to
Gateway™-based cDNA clones (listed in Table S3) were subsequently cloned into BiFP2  [29]  vectors using the Gateway™ recombination system, resulting in an experimental set of  35S-cEYFP-ASK  constructs. Similarly, F-Box protein-encoding cDNA clones were cloned into BiFP3  [29] , resulting in the  35S-nEYFP-F-Box  set of constructs. A complete list of the vectors used is summarized in Table S4. In those instances where the entry clone and destination plasmid backbone carried the same selection
independently evaluated in  N. benthamiana  leaves by construction, transformation and expression of select ASK and F-Box fusions in the pE-SPYNE-GW and pE-SPYCE-GW gateway compatible BiFC vectors harboring Myc and HA tags at the N-terminus of the split YFP domain, respectively  [30] . Generation of Transgenic Plants The  35S-YFP-ASK  constructs were transformed into  Agrobacterium tumefaciens  strain AGL1 by electroporation, and the presence of transgenes were confirmed by  in situ  PCR. Plant transformations were performed using the floral dip method  [31] . Seeds
days of infiltration using confocal microscopy. Confocal Imaging Imaging of BiFC signals  in planta  was done using an Olympus Model FV1000 point-scanning/point-detection laser scanning confocal microscope. Cyan fluorescent protein (CFP), yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and propidium iodide (PI) were excited by using 440, 512 and 543 nm laser lines, respectively. When using multiple fluorophores simultaneously, images were acquired sequentially in order to reduce excitation and emission overlaps. Olympus water immersion PLAPO60XWLSM (NA 1.0)
