ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
RESULTS Exocyst subunits colocalize in distinct foci at the plasma membrane In  Arabidopsis thaliana , green fluorescent protein (GFP)–tagged exocyst subunits SEC6, SEC8, EXO70A1, and EXO84b are enriched at the outer PM of root epidermal cells and localize strongly to postcytokinetic cell plate membranes ( Figure 1A ;  Fendrych  et al. , 2010 ). The PM signal
this difference was statistically significant for the EXO84b, EXO70A1, and SEC8 subunits (analysis of variance, α = 0.05). FIGURE 1: Exocyst subunits colocalize in distinct foci at the plasma membrane. (A) CLSM section of  Arabidopsis  root expressing EXO84b-GFP. The signal decorates outer epidermal PM. In recently divided cells, the exocyst is focused on the maturing cell walls (asterisk). (B) Exocyst subunits form distinct foci at the PM
below the lateral root cap, and these cells are inaccessible for VAEM. The exocyst aggregated into cell corners and formed clusters of intensive signal in epidermal cells in the elongation zone ( Figure 3E ). FIGURE 3: EXO84b-GFP and cytoskeleton in root epidermal cells. (A) EXO84B-GFP (green) does not colocalize with actin as visualized by Lifeact-mRFP (red). Short-term actin disruption (10 min, right) does not influence the appearance of exocyst foci. Scale bars, 2 μm. (B) Localization of EXO84b-mRFP (red) and microtubules (green, MAP4-GFP). After 10-min APM treatment, microtubules are disrupted, whereas exocyst foci remain unaffected. Scale bars, 2 μm. (C, D) EXO84b-GFP foci 1 h after disruption of actin (C) and microtubule (D) cytoskeleton. Scale bars, 5 μm. (E, F) EXO84b-GFP in CLSM root sections 1 h after disruption of actin (E) and control (F). Hyperpolarization of the exocyst signal is obvious in E. Scale bars, 10 μm. (G, H) FRAP curves demonstrate
to distinguish between the two types of events. FIGURE 4: Colocalization of exocyst foci with vesicle marker and electron microscopy analysis of the lateral plasma membrane of root epidermal cells. (A–C) Comparison of VAMP721 (A), exocyst foci (B), and SYP132-GFP (C) CLSM localization (left) and dynamics visualized by VAEM (right). GFP-VAMP721 localizes to epidermal PM and endosomes and EXO84b-GFP signal is prominent at the outer epidermal PM, whereas SYP132-GFP is evenly distributed along the entire PM; the seemingly stronger signal of the intercellular membranes results from summing of the adjacent PM signal. Kymographs demonstrate that VAMP721 and exocyst label PM-localized foci with similar appearance (A, B). VAMP721 foci
the cytoplasm close to the Golgi. (I) Magnified inset from (G); the distance of the vesicle from the PM is 23 nm. Scale bars, 1 μm in F and G and 100 nm in I. The pattern of the GFP-VAMP721 foci resembled that of exocyst
(BFA), which causes the aggregation of the  trans -Golgi network and partially inhibits exocytosis ( Geldner  et al. , 2003 ;  Teh and Moore, 2007 ). After 2-h treatment of 4-d seedlings with 50 μM BFA, the GFP-VAMP721 signal in root epidermal cells aggregated in so-called BFA
and SEC8 GFP-tagged exocyst subunits did not exhibit such behavior, and their signal persisted completely at the PM ( Figure 5 ). Note that the analysis of VAMP721 VAEM images was very difficult due to the signal of the endomembrane compartments present
whereas the underlying endomembrane particles were still present; therefore we did not analyze the BFA-treated samples using VAEM but used confocal microscopy instead. FIGURE 5: The exocyst is insensitive to brefeldin A treatment. Plants expressing exocyst subunits and VAMP721 GFP fusions were treated
SEC6-GFP foci density in  exo70A1  wild-type and mutant cells; error bars, SDs;  n  = 23 and 12 cells for  exo70A1mm  and exo70A1 wild type, respectively. (C) GFP-VAMP721 localizes to the lateral PM and endomembranes in the wild type and  exo70A1  phenotypic wild-type cells. In  exo70A1  and  exo84b1  exocyst mutants, GFP-VAMP721 localization to the lateral PM decreases, and, in turn, the signal of endomembrane compartment increases. Calibration bar of the color coding is shown on the right; scale bars, 5 μm. (D) Quantification of the lateral PM domain/cytoplasmic signal intensity
mutants); error bars, SDs. If the exocyst foci indeed represent PM sites with vesicle-tethering capacity, then the decrease in exocyst foci density should result in decreased exocytosis. In root epidermal cells, GFP-tagged VAMP721 is partitioned between the PM and endomembrane compartments. The strong signal at the lateral PM likely results from intensive exocytosis ( Figure 4A ). The ratio of the PM and endomembrane signals can then be used as an approximation for ongoing exocytosis. Therefore we examined GFP-VAMP721 in  exo84b  and  exo70A1  exocyst mutants. The  exo84b-1  and  exo84b-2  mutants are dwarf plants with pleiotropic developmental defects ( Fendrych  et al. , 2010 ). In both lines, the GFP-VAMP721 localization differed dramatically from the wild type: the lateral PM signal was lost, and the protein was present in the cytoplasm and the endomembranes ( Figure 6C ). We further analyzed the localization of GFP-VAMP721 in the  exo70A1  mutant, which is less severely affected, and its cell types can be directly compared with wild type. In  exo70A1 , lateral PM-domain localization typically decreased and the signal in the endomembrane compartments increased,
to the entire cytoplasmic signal. This ratio was lower in  exo70A1  mutants than in phenotypically wild-type siblings and wild-type plants ( Figure 6D ). We were unable to compare the GFP-VAMP721 signal using VAEM microscopy, as the endomembrane compartments accumulated below the PM in the mutant plants hamper such an analysis, similar to the situation in BFA-treated samples (see earlier discussion). In summary, the absence of the EXO70A1 subunit leads
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
and 525/36 and 600/32 filters were used for GFP/mRFP and GFP/mOrange sequential imaging. Relative focus correction was used for colocalization imaging to compensate for the fact that different wavelengths appear at different focal depths. The system, equipped with a DFC350FXR2 camera, was controlled by LAS AF software (Leica). FRAP experiments
the three-template PCR method ( Tian  et al. , 2004 ). The VAMP721 promoter region and VAMP721 gene were amplified from  A. thaliana  genomic DNA by using P1 and P2, and P5 and P6 primers, respectively; the GFP gene was amplified from the pGWB6 vector ( Nakagawa  et al. , 2007 ) by using P3 and P4 primers. In a subsequent PCR, resulting products were mixed and amplified using attB1 and attB2 primers. Product of this three-template
( Nakagawa  et al. , 2007 ) by BP Clonase II and LR Clonase II enzyme mix, respectively. The construct was verified by sequencing; the promoter region lacked the initial 400 base pairs, resulting in ∼800–base pair promoter region. GFP-VAMP721 was transformed into  A. thaliana  expressing EXO84b-mRFP using the floral dip method. All PCRs were performed using the Phusion polymerase (Finnzymes, Thermo Scientific, Vantaa, Finland). Primers used are listed in  Table 1 . TABLE 1: Primers used. Lifeact5 AAAAAAGCAGGCTCCACCATGGGTGTCGCAGATTTGATCAAGAAATTC Lifeact3 AGAAAGCTGGGTCTTCTTCCTTTGAGATGCTTTCGAATTTCTTGATCA attB1 GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCT attB2 GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGT
 expressing SYP132 were kindly provided by M. H. Sato (Graduate School of Life and Environmental Sciences, Kyoto Prefectural University, Japan) and DRP1C-mOrange by S. Bednarek (Department of Biochemistry, University of Wisconsin–Madison). F1 generation of crosses between plants expressing GFP- and mRFP- or GFP- and mOrange-tagged proteins was used for evaluation of possible colocalization; in the case of VAMP721–EXO84b colocalization, T2-generation seedlings were used. To observe SEC6-GFP foci in the  exo70A1  mutant, we transformed the  exo70A1-1  line with the SEC6-GFP construct using the floral dip method. In the T2 generation, phenotypically homozygous plants were selected and compared with phenotypically wild-type siblings. Four-day-old  Arabidopsis  plantlets grown on vertical agar plates were transferred with a block of agar beneath into a minute droplet of half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium (½ MS) supplemented with 1% (wt/vol) sucrose in a LabTekII chambered coverglass and observed. Five-day-old seedlings were used for FRAP experiments. For cytoskeleton treatment, 10 mM latrunculin B (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) in dimethyl sulfoxide and 100 mM amiprophos methyl (APM; Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) in ethanol were used. Seedlings were transferred into ½ MS containing a 1:1000 dilution of the appropriate drug or equivalent volume of the solvent in controls, incubated for 10 min or 1 h, respectively, and observed. The BFA experiment was conducted as follows: 4-d-old seedlings expressing GFP-tagged exocyst subunits or VAMP721, respectively, were treated with 50 mM brefeldin A diluted 1:1000 in ½ MS liquid medium. Images of epidermal cells at root transition zone were taken after 2-h treatment. Image analysis All images were analyzed using ImageJ software (National Institutes
t / C t  intensity ratio in the five frames before bleaching. Electron micrographs of epidermal root cells were checked for the presence of vesicles in the PM vicinity, and the outer PM length was measured. Evaluation of GFP-VAMP721 intensities at the PM and cytoplasm was achieved by creating a region of interest encompassing the entire cytoplasm and lateral PM domain, respectively; mean intensity was recorded, and the ratio was calculated. All data were processed using the Gnumeric
