ABSTRACT:
The cytosolic glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH, EC 1.2.1.12, GapC) plays an important role in glycolysis by providing the cell with ATP and NADH. Interestingly, despite its glycolytic function in the cytosol, GAPDH was reported to possess additional non-glycolytic activities, correlating with its nuclear, or cytoskeletal localization in animal cells. In transiently transformed mesophyll protoplasts from  Arabidopsis thaliana  colocalization and interaction
was visualized by confocal laser scanning microscopy (cLSM) using fluorescent protein fusions and by bimolecular fluorescence complementation, respectively. Yeast two-hybrid screens, dot-blot overlay assays, and co-sedimentation assays were used to identify potential protein–protein interactions between two cytosolic GAPDH isoforms (GapC1, At3g04120; GapC2, At1g13440) from  A. thaliana  with the neighboring glycolytic enzyme, fructose 1,6-bisphosphate aldolase (FBA6, At2g36460), the mitochondrial porin (VDAC3; At5g15090), and actin  in vitro . From these experiments, a mitochondrial association is suggested for both glycolytic enzymes, GAPDH and aldolase, which appear to bind to the outer mitochondrial membrane, in a redox-dependent manner. In addition, both glycolytic enzymes
RESULTS:
Results In vivo  colocalization of GapC with mitochondria Apart from the even cytosolic distribution and the occasional nuclear localization of the GFP-fused GapC1, GapC2, and aldolase, reported previously (Holtgrefe et al.,  2008 ; van der Linde et al.,  2011 ), fluorescent signals appeared in a non-homogeneous distribution as locally accumulated foci of GapC2:GFP and GapC1:GFP/CFP in the cytosol of the transformed protoplasts (Figures  1 A,B). The GapC-containing structures emitted intense fluorescence that in many cases was much stronger than the cytosolically distributed GFP-fused enzyme, which was frequently observed. The diffuse cytosolic signal was therefore not imaged in certain cases, due to down-regulation of the detector in the cLSM 510 META (Figure  1 , GapC2:GFP). The cytosolic aggregates of GapC:GFP seemed to vary with regard of their size, shape, and amount. A higher magnification resulted in a better resolution of the foci-like spots, showing their branched constitution in several cases (Figure  1 B, magnified GapC2:GFP)
from  Arabidopsis . In addition to PM, vacuole, endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and the Golgi apparatus constitute the major components of the plant secretory system (Brandizzi et al.,  2004 ). In this context, the fraction of manifold, small GapC:GFP foci, resembling plant Golgi apparatus, was tested for colocalization with Golgi
form cytoplasmic strands when expressed transiently as CFP fusions that might be correlated with cytoskeleton (Figure  1 B, lower pictures, Figure  A3  in Appendix). When fluorescent fusion of tdTomato with the actin-binding domain ABD2 of fimbrin (AtFim1) was applied for staining actin filaments, an additional peak for tdTomato, that appeared within
to be modified. During microscopic imaging with cLSM 510 META it turned out that, by down-regulation of the detector, the bleeding-through artifacts could be removed, allowing visualization of the stronger GapC1:GFP foci only, with respect to the stained actin cytoskeleton. This approach enabled the observation of the punctuate signals emitted by GFP-fusion GapC, and showed that the clusters might move between actin fibrils, but their direct association with stained actin filaments was not obvious (Figure  2 ). Figure 2 Time-lapse images of GapC1:GFP aggregates with respect to the actin cytoskeleton . Time-lapse images of the GAPDH aggregates in relation to the actin cytoskeleton show GapC1:GFP aggregates moving along actin fibers (depicted with white frames). Images were taken after the indicated times. Actin filaments are stained with tdTomato:AtFim1 ABD2 (red). The GapC1:GFP foci are displayed in green. Scale bar: 10 μm. The images were
A5  in Appendix). When an empty pUC-SPYNE vector and GapC1, GapC2, or FBA6, fused to the C-terminal halves of the YFP, were used, positive BiFC signals that were homogeneously distributed in the cytoplasm or even localized in the nucleus, were surprisingly found in several protoplasts. An identical, cytosolic localization pattern was observed also in the  Arabidopsis  protoplasts expressing split YFP-fused GapC1 and/or GapC2, reflecting the homo- and heterooligomerization of its subunits, respectively (data not shown). Beside this cytosolic compartmentation, FBA6 and GapC interacted also in a locally accumulated way, in some cases close to the stained mitochondria (Figures  4 D,E), which correlated with the microscopic observations regarding potential mitochondrial association of GapC:GFP (Figures  1 
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
 2008 ). Visualization of fluorescence-tagged proteins in transiently transformed protoplasts from  A. thaliana The glycolytic enzymes were expressed in  Arabidopsis  protoplasts from the pGFP-2 vector as a C-terminal fusion with the Green Fluorescent Protein (pGFP GapC1 and pGFP GapC2), under control of the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter (Kost et al.,  1998 ). Similar experiments were carried out with vectors encoding GapC isoforms as CFP fusions, based on the p-35S-CFP-NosT vector, which was kindly provided by Thorsten Seidel
visualized by staining mesophyll protoplasts with the MitoTracker ®  Orange CMTMRos (Molecular Probes/Invitrogen, Karlsruhe, Germany). The protein–protein interactions between the glycolytic enzymes, GapC and aldolase, with VDAC3, were investigated by means of the BiFC technique (BiFC or split YFP; Hu et al.,  2002 ). Appropriate vectors, pUC-SPYNE and pUC-SPYCE (Walter et al.,  2004 ) obtained from Prof. Jörg Kudla (University of Muenster), were used to design constructs expressing the respective proteins. Fusions of aldolase (FBA6, At2g36460), VDAC3 (At5g15090), or GapC1 and GapC2 with the N-terminal or the C-terminal half of the YFP are described as X:YFP N  or X:YFP C , respectively. Combination of plasmids, pUC-SPYNE-bZip63 and pUC-SPYCE-bZip63, coding for an YFP-fusion with the transcription factor bZip63, was used as a positive control in the BiFC assay. Homodimerization of this protein was already demonstrated to occur in the plant nucleus (Walter et al.,  2004 ). The transiently transformed protoplasts incubated
protoplasts along with stained mitochondria, YFP was visualized with excitation at 514 nm and emission at 522–533 nm, whereas MitoTracker ®  Orange was excited with 543 nm and emitted at 565–597 nm, both detected with META Detector, respectively. Yeast two-hybrid screen with GapC1 and 2 as baits, and
the mixtures, followed by incubation for 5 min at 22°C. Then supernatant and pellet were separated by ultracentrifugation at 100,000 ×  g  for 1 h at 22°C. Both fractions were analyzed by SDS-PAGE (10%) and subsequent staining of the gels with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R. In vitro  visualization of actin Samples of F-actin together with GapC1, aldolase, or both enzymes were prepared as described for the co-sedimentation assay. Then DTT red  (10 mM final concentration) was added to the mixtures
