ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
localization of GNOM–GFP, we also produced transgenic plants expressing the gnom fwr –GFP fusion protein under the control of the native  GNOM  promoter. Interestingly, the subcellular localization of gnom fwr –GFP fluorescence was mainly observed at the plasma membrane, which is different from that of GNOM–GFP ( Supplementary Fig. S7 ). This suggests that the  fwr  mutation might affect the subcellular localization of GNOM. However, the gnom fwr –GFP fusion protein was functional as well as
results were obtained in each experiment. Localization of PIN1–GFP in the  fwr  mutant roots GNOM is known to regulate the recycling of PIN1, an auxin efflux carrier, thereby affecting the subcellular localization of PIN1 at the basal plasma membrane, which is important for several auxin-dependent growth
crossed the PIN1–GFP line ( Friml et al. 2003 ) into the  fwr  mutant and observed PIN1–GFP fluorescence in the  fwr  roots. As shown in  Fig. 7 , PIN1–GFP was localized at the basal membrane of the root stele cells in  fwr  as observed in the wild type ( Fig. 7 A). In the Stage I LR primordia and later stages, no distinct difference in PIN1–GFP localization was observed between the wild
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
and growth conditions Arabidopsis thaliana  used in this study were Columbia (Col) and Landsberg  erecta  (L er ) accessions. The  DR5::GUS  seeds were kindly provided by Tom Guilfoyle (University of Missouri, USA). The  PIN1-GFP  seeds were kindly provided by Jiří Friml (Ghent University, Belgium). The  pLBD16::GUS  line was described by  Okushima et al. (2007) . The T-DNA insertion line ( gnom SALK_103014 ) in the  GNOM  (SALK_103014) seeds was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC). The J0121 line was obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC). The  fwr  mutant was isolated from the EMS-mutagenized M 2  Col seeds obtained from LEHLE SEEDS ( http://www.arabidopsis.com/ ). The  fwr  mutant was backcrossed more than three times before the analysis. Seeds were surface-sterilized and plated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 1.0% sucrose solidified with 0.5% gellan gum as described previously
the genomic sequence containing the  At1g13980  gene. PCR products were purified and directly sequenced by standard methods using these PCR primers and additional internal primers. Vector construction and plant transformation Primers used for plasmid construction of  GNOM-GFP  are listed in  Supplementary Table S2 . The genomic  GNOM-GFP  line was constructed by the technique of fluorescent tagging of full-length proteins ( Tian et al. 2004 ). The cDNA encoding GFP was inserted in-frame immediately preceding the stop codon of the  GNOM  gene-coding sequence. The complete sequence includes 2.4 kb of the 5′- and 0.6 kb of the 3′-flanking sequences of  GNOM . The amplified sequence was subcloned into pENTR D-TOPO (Invitrogen) and then transferred to pGWB501 ( Nakagawa et al. 2007 ) by Gateway technology (Invitrogen). The genomic  GNOM fwr -GFP  was produced by PCR-based site-directed mutagenesis. The transformation of Arabidopsis plants was performed via floral dipping using  Agrobacterium tumefaciens  (strain C58MP90) ( Clough and Bent 1998 ). RNA extraction and RT–PCR analysis Total RNA was isolated
