ABSTRACT:
We have identified and characterized two Arabidopsis long coiled-coil proteins PAMP-INDUCED COILED-COIL (PICC) and PICC-LIKE (PICL). PICC (147 kDa) and PICL (87 kDa) are paralogs that consist predominantly of a long coiled-coil domain (expanded in PICC), with a predicted transmembrane domain at the immediate C-terminus. Orthologs of PICC and PICL were found exclusively in vascular plants. PICC and PICL GFP fusion proteins are anchored to the cytoplasmic surface of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane by a C-terminal transmembrane domain and a short tail domain, via a tail-anchoring mechanism. T-DNA-insertion mutants of  PICC  and  PICL  as well as the double mutant show an increased sensitivity to the plant abiotic stress hormone abscisic acid (ABA)
RESULTS:
 Vitis vinifera. PICC and PICL are Located at the ER The predicted TMD in PICL and PICC is located 4 amino acids from the C-terminus ( Fig. 1A ). To investigate the subcellular location of PICC and PICL, GFP-PICC and GFP-PICL fusion proteins were transiently expressed under the control of the Cauliflower mosaic virus  35S  promoter in  Nicotiana benthamiana  leaf epidermal cells and GFP fluorescence was observed by confocal laser scanning microscopy. The proteins were coexpressed with the ER marker HDEL-mCherry. GFP-PICC and GFP-PICL labeled a sharp reticulate network pattern and colocalized with the ER marker ( Fig. 2B ). When GFP-PICC and GFP-PICL were coexpressed with the tubulin and actin markers RFP-MAP4 (microtubule associated protein 4) and RFP-fABD2 (second actin-binding domain of Arabidopsis fimbrin), respectively, no colocalization was observed (data not shown). To test if a C-terminal fragment of 31 amino acids (transmembrane domain fragment, TDF), which contains the transmembrane domain and the 4 amino-acid tail is sufficient for ER localization, the GFP-tagged partial proteins GFP-TDF PICC  and GFP-TDF PICL  ( Fig. 2A ) were generated. In addition, GFP-fused partial proteins without the TDF, GFP-PICCΔTDF and GFP-PICLΔTDF ( Fig. 2A ) were generated. The four proteins were transiently coexpressed with HDEL-mCherry in  N. benthamiana . GFP-TDF PICC  and GFP-TDF PICL  colocalized with the ER-marker. In contrast, GFP-PICCΔTDF and GFP-PICLΔTDF were not located at the ER but were found diffusely distributed in the cytoplasm, closely resembling the localization pattern observed with free GFP ( Fig. 2B ). 10.1371/journal.pone.0057283.g002 Figure 2 PICL and PICC are associated with the ER via their C-terminal transmembrane domain. ( A ) N-terminally tagged GFP-fusion proteins used in this study. Amino acid sequence of the transmembrane domain and the C-terminal tail are shown in blue and red letters, respectively. Numbers indicate amino acid
Cauliflower mosaic virus  35S  promoter were created and at least eight independent T1 transgenic plants for each transgene were imaged. Confirming the localization results obtained in the transient expression experiment, GFP-PICL and GFP-PICC showed the typical reticulate ER localization signals. The TDF domains of both proteins were sufficient to target GFP to the ER. Deleting the TDF of PICL abolished the sharp, reticulate localization pattern and led to a pattern very similar to that of free GFP ( Fig. 2B ). Transgenic lines expressing GFP-PICCΔTDF could not be recovered, possibly either because PICCΔTDF is rapidly degraded or because its expression is deleterious to plants. Taken together, the localization data from  N. benthamiana  and Arabidopsis indicate that PICL and PICC are ER-associated proteins
[47] . In order to determine the topology of PICC and PICL at the ER membrane, a protease protection assay was performed with isolated microsomes. Microsomes were isolated from  N. benthamiana  leaves transiently expressing the fusion proteins GFP-TDF PICC  and GFP-TDF PICL . Since the localization of GFP-TDF PICC  and GFP-TDF PICL  is similar to the localization of GFP-PICC and GFP-PICL in both  N. benthamiana  and Arabidopsis ( Fig. 2B ), the results from this experiment were used to infer the topology of PICC and PICL. ER-resident GFP-fusion proteins with known topology, GFP-Calnexin (GFP-CXN, with GFP facing the ER lumen) and CXN-photoactivatable GFP (CXN-PAGFP, with PAGFP facing the cytoplasm) were used as controls  [49] ,  [50] . Immunoblot analysis using an anti-GFP antibody indicated that GFP in GFP-TDF PICC  and GFP-TDF PICL  was hydrolyzed
band shift due to proteinase K action on the C-terminal cytoplasmic exposed region) and PAGFP facing the cytoplasm in CXN-PAGFP was susceptible to proteinase K digestion ( Fig. 3 ). This demonstrates that the N-terminal GFP tethered to the ER by TDF PICC  or TDF PICL  is facing the cytoplasm, indicating that the N-terminus of PICC and PICL faces the cytoplasm. Together, these data suggest that PICC and PICL are ER localized, tail-anchored proteins with the N-terminal long coiled-coil domains facing the cytoplasm. 10.1371/journal.pone.0057283.g003 Figure 3 PICL and PICC N-termini face the cytoplasm. Immunoblot analysis using GFP antibody. Microsomal preparations were treated with and without Proteinase K. GFP-CXN and CXN-PAGFP
are hydrolyzed indicating exposure to Proteinase K. At the given concentration of proteinase K (sufficient to completely hydrolyze GFP in GFP-TDF PICL  and GFP-TDF PICC ), a small amount of PAGFP remains undigested (second column of CXN-PAGFP). Microsomal membranes were solubilized by the detergent Triton X-100. Numbers on the left indicate approximate molecular mass in kilodaltons. PICC forms Homodimers and does not Interact with PICL in a Membrane Yeast Two-hybrid System Coiled-coil proteins are known to form homo- and hetero-oligomers through specific interactions mediated by their coiled-coil domains  [51] ,  [52]
deviation. On plates containing 0 µM ABA, WT and mutants had 100% post germination growth efficiency. Similar results were obtained in three out of four biological replicates. ER Morphology is not Altered in  picc-1;picl-1  Mutant Plants Since GFP-PICC and GFP-PICL are localized at the ER in Arabidopsis, we investigated the ER morphology in  picc-1;picl-1  double mutant plants. Towards this end, we transformed  picc-1;picl-1  and WT plants with the ER marker HDEL-mCherry, driven by the Cauliflower
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
split-ubiquitin membrane yeast two-hybrid, PICC and PICL were cloned into Cub and Nub vectors, pBT3N and pPR3N (Dual Systems Biotech, Switzerland) using the In-Fusion cloning system (Clontech, Mountainview, CA). The ER marker HDEL-mCherry (CD3-959) was obtained from the ABRC. GFP-CXN and CXN-PAGFP used as controls for protease protection assay were kindly donated by Chris Hawes, Oxford Brookes University. The primers used for cloning are listed in  Table S2 . Sequences of all clones in the entry vectors and in the split-ubiquitin membrane yeast two-hybrid vectors were verified by sequencing at the Plant-Microbe Genomics Facility (PMGF, The Ohio State University, Columbus, USA). Generation and Selection of Arabidopsis Transgenic Lines Transgenic lines GFP-PICC, GFP-PICL, GFP-PICCΔTDF, GFP-PICLΔTDF, GFP-TDF PICC , GFP-TDF PICL , pPICC::GUS, pPICL::GUS, were generated by transforming Arabidopsis wild type Col-0 plants with Agrobacterium strain GV3101 carrying individual plasmids, by the floral dipping method  [35] . Transgenic T1 progeny were selected on agar plates containing MS medium (1x MS basal salts
hygromycin or both. For localization analysis, T1 progeny carrying GFP-fusion genes of interest were analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy. For promoter analysis, at least 5 independent T2 lines were selected and subjected to staining for GUS expression. For ER morphology analysis, transgenic HDEL-mCherry plants were generated by transforming WT and  picc-1;picl-1  with Agrobacterium strain GV3101 carrying HDEL-mCherry driven by Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Transgenic T1 progeny were selected on agar plates containing MS medium (1x MS basal salts (Caisson), 1% sucrose, 0.5 gl −1  MES, 1x Gamborg’s
and syringe infiltrated into  N. benthamiana  leaves. The GFP and mCherry expression patterns were analyzed by confocal microscopy 48 h after infiltration. Confocal Laser Scanning Microscopy All images were acquired using a confocal laser scanning microscope (Nikon D-ECLIPSE C1 90i). GFP fluorescence was observed using an excitation wavelength of 488 nm and emission wavelength of 515/530 nm. mCherry was observed using an excitation wavelength of 543 nm and emission wavelength of 560/615 nm. Protease Protection Assay Protease
protein loading buffer (150 mM Tris-HCl pH 6.8, 6% SDS, 300 mM DTT, 30% glycerol, 0.3% bromophenol blue) was added and samples were boiled for 5 min before subjecting to SDS-PAGE on a 15% SDS-polyacrylamide gel. Immunoblot analysis with anti-GFP antibody (Invitrogen) was performed as described below. ß-Glucuronidase Staining Arabidopsis tissues were prefixed in ice-cold 90% acetone for 1 h and then immersed in staining solution (50 mM sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.0, 10
mM NaCl, 0.5% Nonidet P-40, 1 mM EDTA pH 8.0, 3 mM DTT, 1 mM PMSF, and 1x protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma-Aldrich)). The samples were centrifuged at 20,000 g for 10 minutes at 4°C to sediment the debris. 3x SDS protein loading buffer was added and the samples were boiled for 5 min. The samples
1×10 5  CFU ml −1  of  Pst DC3000 and growth was subsequently measured as described. RNA Isolation and Quantitative Real-time PCR For gene expression studies in seedlings, RNA was isolated from 10-day-old seedlings grown in liquid MS media and treated
liquid MS media) for 0 h, 1 h and 2 h respectively. For expression studies in Arabidopsis plants, leaves of 5-week-old Arabidopsis plants grown in short day conditions were syringe infiltrated with 1 µM flg22 or 1×10 8  CFUml −1
