ABSTRACT:
two-hybrid screen was undertaken to identify proteins interacting with  Arabidopsis  WEE1. Three F-box proteins and a subunit of the proteasome complex were identified, and bimolecular fluorescence complementation confirmed an interaction between AtWEE1 and the F-box protein SKP1 INTERACTING PARTNER 1 (SKIP1). Furthermore, the AtWEE1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) signal in  Arabidopsis  primary roots treated with the proteasome inhibitor MG132 was significantly increased compared with mock-treated controls. Expression of AtWEE1–YFP C  (C-terminal portion of yellow fluorescent protein)
RESULTS:
test more precisely the levels of WEE1 protein during the cell cycle, GFP signal was monitored during the synchronized cell cycle of a 35S::AtWEE1–GFP cell line compared with a 35S::GFP-expressing control line. The AtWEE1–GFP signal was detected mainly in nuclei and chromosomes, with background/residual GFP signal in the cytoplasm ( Fig. 2A ). Fig. 2. In the AtWEE1–GFP line, GFP signal is greatly reduced in metaphase and early anaphase. (A) 35S::AtWEE1–GFP (GFP, Hoechst, and merged GFP–Hoechst; Hoechst λ=420nm GFP λ=530nm). Yellow arrows indicate a representative cell; scale bar=50 µm for all images. (B) Nuclear fluorescence frequency (%) of cells sampled from the synchronized 35S::AtWEE1–GFP cell line.  n  values are indicated on each bar. Contingency χ 2 =1511 df 4,  P  < 0.001. A clear nuclear AtWEE1–GFP signal was seen in interphase; however, signal associated with the chromosomes of early and late prophase cells was weaker, followed by an almost complete absence of signal from chromosomes at metaphase and early anaphase but its re-establishment in late anaphase and telophase. This pattern of alteration of AtWEE1–GFP intensity contrasts with a constant GFP signal regardless of cell cycle stage for the 35S::GFP line ( Supplementary Fig. S3  at  JXB  online). Quantification of nuclear fluorescence from >1500 cells in both lines confirmed that in the 35S::AtWEE1–GFP line, GFP signal was undetectable in metaphase cells and only very few prophase cells emitted signal ( Fig. 2B ). A contingency χ 2  indicated a
be shown in  Fig. 2B . The dispersal of AtWEE1 during metaphase was also confirmed in  Arabidopsis  roots. An  Arabidopsis  line transformed with the WEE1–GFP construct was crossed with a line transformed with the nuclear envelope marker, AtSUN1–mRFP ( Graumann  et al ., 2010 ;  Graumann and Evans, 2011 ). In the resultant line, the pattern of WEE1–GFP signal during the cell cycle is similar to that seen in BY-2 cells ( Fig. 3 ). In interphase, a clear nucleoplasmic AtWEE1–GFP signal is visible, surrounded by nuclear envelope labelling of AtSUN1–mRFP ( Fig. 3 ). During metaphase AtWEE1–GFP signal is essentially absent but a clear AtSUN1–mRFP signal can be observed in mitotic spindle membranes ( Fig. 3 ). AtWEE1–GFP signal reappears in late anaphase/early telophase cells, while AtSUN1–mRFP is present in the reforming nuclear envelope, and, finally, strong GFP and RFP signals were observed during cytokinesis. Hence, there is a remarkably precise cell cycle regulation of WEE1 with presumed degradation or destabilization of WEE1 when chromosomes align at the metaphase plate for both
detectable in lateral root primordial cells The stability of WEE1 protein was also examined in lateral roots of two independent 35S::AtWEE1–GFP-expressing  Arabidopsis  lines, #10 and #67. In line #10, a weak GFP signal was observed in the nuclei of the basal cells of the lateral root primordia ( Fig. 4A ), but fluorescence was not detected in the
AtSKIP1–AtWEE1 interaction in plant cells, initially by transient transformation. Interacting proteins were mostly localized in the nucleus; however, the interaction was also detected at the cell wall, especially at the junctions between adjacent cells ( Fig. 6A ). The AtWEE1–YFP C  (in the SPYCE vector) and AtSKIP1–YFP N  (in the SPYNE vector) constructs were
(positive control); and (iii) AtWEE1–YFP C  and AtBZIP63–YFP N  (negative control); under UV light (left), white light (right), and the two merged (centre). Blue colouring indicates a positive interaction between the two proteins (representative images). (B) Mean nuclear fluorescence frequency (%; ±SE,  n =3) in each cell cycle phase in cells from the following transgenic BY-2 lines: AtWEE1–GFP line # 4 (GFP–WEE1) and AtWEE1–YFP C /AtSKIP1–YFP N , line # 6 (WEE1–C/SKIP1-N6). Expression of AtSKIP1 and
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
al . (2000) . Protein extract concentrations were determined using a Bradford assay ( Bradford, 1976 ; Bradford Reagent, Sigma, Dorset, UK) to ensure equal loading on SDS–gels and western blots (20 µg). Loading was also verified using replicate Coomassie brilliant blue-stained gels. The WEE1 antibody used was as described in  Lentz Grønlund  et al.  (2009) . Western blotting was as described in  Lentz Grønlund  et al.  (2009)  using a WEE1 antibody
identified by colony PCR and sequenced. Sequences were identified using the BLAST program ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/ ). Bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) The  AtWEE1  ORF was amplified and cloned into the BiFC vector containing the C-terminal portion of yellow fluorescent protein (YFP), pkanII-SPYCE(M) ( Waadt  et al ., 2008 ) as described in  Lentz Grønlund  et al.  (2009) . The  AtSKIP1  ORF was PCR amplified (primers are listed in  Supplementary Table S2  at  JXB  online) and cloned using the  Asc I/ Xma I sites into the BiFC vector fusing the  SKIP1  ORF in-frame with the N-terminal portion of YFP, pSPYNE ( Walter  et al ., 2004 ). The constructs were transformed into  A. tumefaciens  strain  EHA105  and used to co-transform transiently (as described in  Lentz Grønlund  et al. , 2009 ) and transform stably BY-2 cells as described previously ( Orchard  et al ., 2005 ). Cells were monitored for fluorescence using fluorescence microscopy (Olympus BH2, UV, λ=420nm). AtWEE1 and AtWEE1–GFP transgenic BY-2 and Arabidopsis lines   AtWEE1  under the 35S promoter in the BIN HYG TX vector was assembled as described in  Spadafora  et al . (2012) . A WEE1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein construct was created by amplifying the  AtWEE1  ORF (using the primers listed in  Supplementary Table S2  at  JXB  online) and cloned into the Gateway (Invitrogen) vector system to create an entry clone in pDonr207. The insert was then transferred to pGFP-N-Bin
