ABSTRACT:
Protein-protein interactions are critical for most cellular processes; however, many remain to be identified. Here, to comprehensively identify protein complexes in photosynthetic organisms, we applied the recently developed approach of blue native PAGE (BN-PAGE) coupled with LC-MS/MS to the thylakoid proteins of  Arabidopsis thaliana  and the whole cell proteins of whole cell proteins of  Synechocystis  sp. PCC 6803. We identified 245 proteins from the purified  Arabidopsis  thylakoid membranes and 1,458 proteins from the whole cells of  Synechocystis  using the method. Next, we generated protein migration profiles that were assessed by plotting the label-free estimations of protein abundances versus migration distance in BN-PAGE. Comparisons between the
data with a user-friendly interface to compare the migration profiles of proteins of interest. It helps users to find unidentified protein complexes in  Arabidopsis  thylakoids and  Synechocystis  cells. The accumulation of the data from the BN-PAGE coupled with LC-MS/MS should reveal unidentified protein complexes and should aid in understanding the adaptation and the evolution of photosynthetic organisms. Electronic supplementary material The online
RESULTS:
the protein complexes in wild - type thylakoid membranes.  Thylakoid proteins (4 μg chlorophyll equivalent) were separated by BN-PAGE (4-13%). The BN-PAGE gel was cut horizontally into 60 pieces at approximately 1mm intervals, followed by protein identification using LC-MS/MS. The identification of the pigment protein complexes (PSII-LHCII supercomplexes (PSII-LHCII),
be required to comprehensive identify protein complexes. Analysis of the whole cell proteins of  Synechocystis sp .  PCC 6803 Using  Arabidopsis  thylakoid membranes as a model, our data presented here showed that BN-PAGE coupled with LC-MS/MS was useful for identifying potential protein complexes. One of the goals of our research is the comprehensive identification of protein complexes in the whole cells of
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
ratio of 4/1 (w/w). The samples (4 μg chlorophyll equivalent) were separated in 4-13% polyacrylamide gradient gels at 4°C for 14 h at 40 V. Nano-LC/MS/MS for proteomics of  Arabidopsis  thylakoids and  Synechocystis  cells The BN-PAGE gel lanes were cut horizontally into approximately 60 slices at regular intervals (ca. 1 mm) from the top of the gel to just before the
scan, one MS/MS spectrum of the single most intense peaks was also collected. Protein identification was performed as follows. Raw files were converted to a Mascot generic file (mgf) and searched with Mascot version 2.2 (Matrix Science) into the TAIR9 database (The
were filtered with a significance threshold of p < 0.05 for peptides identifications and the MudPIT scoring algorism was used. Also, the following search parameters were used: 0.05 for ions score cut off, 1.2 Da peptide tolerance; ±0.8 Da MS/MS tolerance; 1+, 2+, or 3+ peptide charge; trypsin digestion with two missed cleavage allowed; carbamidomethyl
