ABSTRACT:
promoter were generated. In these transgenic cells, robust ring-like structures were formed after 4 h of heat shock induction. Transient co-expression, confocal imaging, and immunogold electron microscopy (immunogold-EM) experiments demonstrated that these GFP–ARA7(Q69L)-labelled ring-like structures were distinct from the Golgi apparatus and  trans -Golgi network, but were labelled with an antibody against an MVB marker protein. In addition, live cell imaging and detailed EM analysis showed that the GFP–ARA7(Q69L)-induced spherical structures originated from the homotypic fusion of MVBs. In summary, it was demonstrated
RESULTS:
was transiently expressed in  Arabidopsis  protoplasts derived from suspension-cultured PSBD cells. As shown in  Fig. 1A , GFP-tagged WT ARA7 labelled punctate structures, whereas the constitutively active mutant GFP–ARA7(Q69L) localized to ring-like structures. To investigate the membrane nature of these ring-like structures, GFP–ARA7(Q69L) was transiently co-expressed with the mRFP-tagged MVB marker, VSR2, the TGN marker, SYP61, or the Golgi marker, ManI, in  Arabidopsis  protoplasts. As shown in  Fig. 1B , only mRFP–VSR2 co-localized with GFP–ARA7(Q69L) on the membranes of enlarged spheres, which supports the MVB-derived nature of these ring-like structures. In contrast, there was no co-localization between GFP-labelled ring-like structures and either mRFP–SYP61 or mRFP–Manl ( Fig. 1C ,  D ), indicating that neither TGN nor Golgi membranes contribute to the enlarged spheres. Fig. 1. GFP–ARA7(Q69L)-induced ring-like structures co-localize with an MVB marker, but not with TGN or Golgi markers, in  Arabidopsis  protoplasts. (A) The GFP fusion construct GFP–ARA7 or the GTP-bound mutant GFP–ARA7(Q69L) were transiently expressed in  Arabidopsis  protoplasts followed by confocal imaging. (B–D) GFP–ARA7(Q69L) was transiently co-expressed with the mRFP-tagged MVB marker, mRFP–VSR2, the TGN marker, mRFP–SYP61, or the Golgi marker, ManI–mRFP, in  Arabidopsis  protoplasts, followed by confocal imaging. Enlarged images of selected areas are also shown (A–D). Scale bar=50 µm. Generation and characterization of transgenic  Arabidopsis  PSBD cell lines expressing GFP–ARA7(Q69L) under the control
GFP–ARA7(Q69L) in the formation of these ring-like structures, time-course experiments were performed by confocal imaging and western blot analysis. As shown in  Fig. 2A , no GFP signal was detected by confocal microscopy before heat shock treatment. However, cytosolic
formation of GFP-labelled ring-like structures. It should be noted that a 4 h incubation was used for all subsequent experiments because the localization of GFP–ARA7(Q69L) to enlarged spheres was highest at this time point (as assessed by confocal microscopy). Membrane fusion of GFP–ARA7(Q69L)-labelled organelles in transgenic cells To study the events leading up to the formation of these ring-like structures, transgenic cells expressing GFP–ARA7(Q69L) were subjected to heat shock treatment followed by time-lapse collection of GFP signals by spinning
;  Video S2 ), and two vacuole-like structures ( Supplementary Fig. S2 ;  Video S3 ). These results indicate that the larger ring-like structures are derived largely from the active fusion of smaller GFP-positive structures and that GFP–ARA7(Q69L) is likely to accumulate on the tonoplast and to promote vacuole fusion. Fig. 3. Membrane fusion of two enlarged GFP–ARA7(Q69L)-labelled ring-like structures in transgenic Arabidopsis cells. Time-lapse images of transgenic cells expressing GFP–ARA7(Q29L) were collected by confocal microscopy. Arrows point to the fusion of two enlarged ring-like structures. Scale bar=10 µm. GFP–ARA7(Q69L) co-localizes with the PVC/MVB marker, VSR, on enlarged MVBs but not with TGN and Golgi markers in transgenic  Arabidopsis  cell lines To elucidate further the membrane source of these enlarged MVBs in transgenic  Arabidopsis  cell
immunofluorescence was performed using (i) anti-VSR (a MVB marker); (ii) anti-SYP61 (a TGN marker); (iii) anti-ManI (a  cis -Golgi marker); and (iv) anti-VPPase (a tonoplast marker) antibodies. As shown in  Fig. 4 , VSR co-localized with the GFP signal on the limiting membrane of ring-like structures, but was distinct from SYP61 and ManI. In addition, VPPase co-localized with GFP–ARA7(Q69L) on ring-like structures. In WT or transgenic cells without heat shock treatment, the anti-VSR antibody labelled punctate PVC structures ( Supplementary Fig. S3
WT cells. Taken together, the immunofluorescence results obtained using the transgenic cell lines are identical to those obtained using  Arabidopsis  protoplasts. Fig. 4. GFP–ARA7(Q69L) co-localizes with VSR and VPPase on ring-like structures, but not with TGN or Golgi markers in transgenic  Arabidopsis  cells. Transgenic GFP–ARA7(Q69L) cells were subjected to heat shock treatment, followed by chemical fixation, immunostaining with different antibodies (i.e. anti-VSR, anti-SYP61, anti-Manl, or anti-VPPase), and confocal imaging. Enlarged images of selected areas are
central vacuole. However, upon heat shock treatment, many enlarged MVBs, or small vacuoles with different diameters, were observed in transgenic cells. In both chemically fixed ( Fig. 6A ) and HPF samples ( Fig. 6B ), the cells without GFP–ARA7(Q69L) expression contained normal MVBs with a diameter ~200–500 nm. In contrast, the
tool to distinguish the protein locations on MVBs Since ARA7(Q69L) expression induced the formation of enlarged MVBs, proteins either on the membrane or within the lumen of the enlarged MVBs could be easily distinguished under light microscopy. Thus, when mRFP-tagged ARA7(Q69L) was used in the co-expression experiments, the subcellular localization and fate of GFP-tagged proteins in the MVBs could be determined,
plant cells. Indeed, as proof-of-principle, mRFP–ARA7(Q69L) was transiently co-expressed with different GFP-tagged marker proteins in  Arabidopsis  protoplasts ( Fig. 9 ). Aleurain–GFP is a soluble vacuolar cargo reporter ( Miao  et al ., 2008 ). EMP12–GFP (endomembrane protein 12 tagged with GFP at the C-terminus) is a membrane protein destined for MVB-mediated vacuolar degradation ( Gao  et al ., 2012 ), whereas VAMP727 (vesicle-associated membrane protein 727) and VTI11 (vacuolar protein sorting ten interacting 11) are components of the SNARE
the vacuolar membrane ( Ebine  et al ., 2008 ). Finally, VIT1 (vacuolar iron transporter1) was used as a marker of the tonoplast ( Kim  et al ., 2006 ). As shown in  Fig. 9 , aleurain–GFP and EMP12–GFP were trapped within the lumen of enlarged MVBs for further vacuolar targeting and degradation ( Fig. 9A ,  B ), while VAMP727, VTI11, and VIT1 were localized to the limiting membrane of enlarged MVBs, but not internalized into
but also determination of the fate of a given protein based on its distinct localization on the limiting membrane or within the lumen of enlarged MVBs. Fig. 9. Different distribution of degradative and functional proteins on ARA7(Q69L)-induced enlarged MVBs. mRFP–ARA7(Q69L) was transiently co-expressed with aleurain–GFP (A), EMP12–GFP (B), VAMP727–GFP (C), VTI11–GFP (D), or VIT1–GFP (E) in  Arabidopsis  protoplasts, followed by confocal imaging. Note that the degradative cargo proteins were trapped within the lumen of enlarged MVBs induced by mRFP–ARA7(Q69L) overexpression (A, B), whereas, the PVC/tonoplast-localized functional proteins co-localized with mRFP–ARA7(Q69L) on the limiting membrane of enlarged MVBs. Enlarged images of selected areas are also shown. Scale bar=50 µm. Since wortmannin induces PVC/MVB enlargement in plant cells ( Tse  et al ., 2004 ;  Wang  et al
at  JXB  online, aleurain–GFP and EMP12–GFP were trapped within the lumens of enlarged MVBs, similar to the effects of ARA7(Q69L) ( Supplementary Fig. S5A ,  B ), while VAMP727, VTI11, and VIT1 remained on the limiting membranes ( Supplementary Fig. S5C – E ).
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Materials and methods Preparation of constructs A two-step cloning procedure was used to generate the final construct, which contained the HSP–GFP–ARA7(Q69L) for  Agrobacterium tumefaciens -mediated transformation of  Arabidopsis  PSBD cells. First, the heat shock promoter (hsp18.2) was excised from the pHGT1 vector (a gift from Dr Karin Schumacher, Heidelberg University) and subcloned into the binary vector pBI121
the typical pattern presented here. Detailed procedures for cell line maintenance and transient expression have been described previously ( Miao and Jiang, 2007 ;  Wang  et al ., 2010 ). Transformation of  Arabidopsis  cells The HSP–GFP–ARA7(Q69L)/pBI121 construct was used for  Agrobacterium -mediated transformation. Transfected cells were grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) agar (1% agar, w/v) plates containing kanamycin (100 µg ml –1 ) and cefotaxime sodium (250 µg ml –1 ) for 3–4
confocal microscopy 1 h after heat shock treatment at 37 °C and 3–4 h after incubation at 27 °C, respectively. Dynamic study of GFP fusions in transgenic cells by spinning disc confocal microscopy Transgenic  Arabidopsis  cells expressing GFP–ARA7(Q69L) were subjected to either a brief heat shock treatment or standard incubation before being observed by confocal microscopy. Images were collected using a Revolution XD spinning disc laser confocal microscopy system (Andor Technology China) fitted with a ×100 oil
min at room temperature. After a brief wash with MS medium three times, the cells were treated with MS containing 0.1% pectinase and 1% cellulase for 1 h at 28 °C. Then the cells were washed with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), and treated with PBS containing 0.1% sodium tetrahydridoborate (NaBH 4 ) at 4 °C overnight. For immunolabelling, polyclonal
+ -translocating inorganic pyrophosphatase (VPPase) ( Jiang  et al ., 2001 ) were used at 4 µg ml –1  in an overnight incubation at 4 °C. Alexa Fluor-568 anti-rabbit (Molecular Probes, USA) secondary antibody was used for immunofluorescent detection at 1:1000 dilution.
