ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
targeted to both mitochondria and plastids [ 25 , 26 ]. Subcellular targeting of NDA proteins It has previously been shown that both NDA proteins from Arabidopsis (AtNDA1 and AtNDA2) are dual targeted to mitochondria and peroxisomes by both GFP-tagging and western blot analysis [ 25 ]. To demonstrate the fluorescence patterns expected by a dual targeted protein containing an N-terminal mitochondrial targeting signal and a C-terminal PTS1 sequence we have included the Arabidopsis proteins in
of mitochondrial outer membrane proteins [ 36 ]. However in this case, as NDA proteins are known to be located in the inner membrane, it is possible that the C-terminus of NDA proteins are located in the intermembrane space (IMS) and may produce a similar result [ 4 ]. In contrast to the full-length C-terminal fusions, truncation of both AtNDA1 and AtNDA2 to just the final 10 amino acids fused to the C-terminus of GFP (10 amino
was found to target solely to the peroxisomes (Figure  2 ). This co-localization was observed in both tissue types tested. Figure 2 Subcellular localizations of Arabidopsis and rice NDA type proteins.  GFP was fused to the C-terminus of NDA1 and NDA2 from  Arabidopsis thaliana 
GFP and the number of amino acids used are shown for each construct. Mitochondria (M) and peroxisomes (Px) are indicated. M-RFP - mitochondrial RFP, Px-RFP - peroxisomal RFP. Scale bar indicates 10 μm. When both NDA proteins from rice (OsNDA1 and 2) were analysed in the same manner, slightly different results were obtained. OsNDA1 was observed
both PpNDA1 and PpNDA2 were dual targeted to mitochondria and peroxisomes (Figure  3 ), suggesting that the dual targeting of NDA type proteins arose early in land plant evolution. Figure 3 Subcellular localizations of Physcomitrella NDA type proteins.  GFP was fused to the C-terminus of NDA1 and NDA2 from
of amino acids used are shown for each construct. Mitochondria (M) and peroxisomes (Px) are indicated. M-RFP - mitochondrial RFP, Px-RFP - peroxisomal RFP. Scale bar indicates 10 μm. Subcellular targeting of NDB proteins The three Arabidopsis NDB proteins (AtNDB1, AtNDB2 and AtNDB4) have previously been determined to be mitochondrial [ 22 , 25 ], which was confirmed in this study (Figure  4 ). However, the last 10 amino acids of AtNDB1 fused to the C-terminus of GFP targeted to peroxisomes, whilst the last 10 amino acids of AtNDB2 and AtNDB4 did not target GFP to any distinct organelle and appeared cytosolic, indicative of no targeting (Figure  4 ). This confirms that AtNDB1 is dual targeted to both mitochondria and peroxisomes and that AtNDB2 and AtNDB4 can only be targeted to mitochondria. To determine
targeting of NDB proteins also occurs in rice, the two rice orthologs (OsNDB1 and OsNDB2) were also analysed. Both OsNDB1 and OsNDB2 were observed to target GFP to mitochondria and the last 10 amino acids can target GFP to peroxisomes in all the tissues tested (Figure  4 ). This suggests that the dual targeting of NDB proteins is conserved in rice
number of amino acids used are shown for each construct. Mitochondria (M) and peroxisomes (Px) are indicated. M-RFP - mitochondrial RFP, Px-RFP - peroxisomal RFP. Scale bar indicates 10 μm. Unlike rice and Arabidopsis, Physcomitrella contains three NDB homologs (PpNDB1, PpNDB2 and PpNDB3) and when GFP was fused to their C-termini, GFP was
(Figure  5 ). However, when these same constructs were expressed in onion epidermal cells a very different picture emerged for PpNDB1 and PpNDB2. Not only were PpNDB1 and PpNDB2 targeted to mitochondria but they could also target GFP to plastids (Figure  5 ). For PpNDB3, only mitochondrial targeting was observed (Figure  5 ). When the last 10 amino acids of PpNDB1, PpNDB2 and PpNDB3 were fused to the C-terminus of GFP, both PpNDB1 and PpNDB2 could target GFP to peroxisomes and PpNDB3 showed targeting of GFP to the cytosol (Figure  5 ). The GFP assays were repeated with Physcomitrella tissue (Figure  6 ) and as seen in the onion epidermal cells and Arabidopsis cell suspensions both PpNDB1 and PpNDB2 were able to target GFP to mitochondria, plastids and peroxisomes (Figure  6 ). PpNDB3 was only observed to target GFP to mitochondria, even in a homologous system (Figure  6 ). The lack of peroxisomal targeting by the C-termini of PpNDB3 is not surprising, as no PTS1 sequence is predicted
of NDB1, NDB2 and NDB4 from  Physcomitrella patens  (Pp). Additionally, the last 10 amino acids were fused at the C-terminus of GFP. Subcellular targeting was analyzed in Physcomitrella protonemal tissue along with RFP tagged mitochondrial, peroxisomal or plastid controls. The protein accession
With regard to the targeting ability of NDC proteins, only one ortholog was found in Arabidopsis, rice and Physcomitrella. When Arabidopsis NDC1 (AtNDC1) was fused to GFP and expressed, two different patterns emerged. In Arabidopsis cell suspensions a clear plastidic localization could be observed, however, in onion epidermal cells clear targeting to both mitochondria and plastids was observed (Figure  7 ). As AtNDC1 was previously shown
into isolated Arabidopsis mitochondria [ 23 , 25 , 26 ] it can be concluded that AtNDC1 is dual targeted to mitochondria and plastids [ 25 , 26 ]. Figure 7 Subcellular localizations of Physcomitrella NDC type proteins.  GFP was fused to the C terminus of the NDC type proteins from  Arabidopsis thaliana  (At),  Oryza sativa  (Os) and  Physcomitrella patens  (Pt). Subcellular targeting was analyzed in Arabidopsis cell suspension, onion epidermal tissues and for the Physcomitrella NDC1 also in Physcomitrella protenemal tissue along with RFP tagged mitochondrial or plastid controls The protein accession number, the position of GFP and the number of amino acids used are shown for each construct. Mitochondria (M) and plastids (Pl) are indicated. M-RFP - mitochondrial RFP, Pl-RFP - plastid RFP. Scale bar indicates 10 μm. To determine when dual targeting of NDC1 arose we analysed the targeting ability of rice (OsNDC1) and Physcomitrella (PpNDC1). For OsNDC1 we see a similar pattern as with AtNDC1 in that plastid targeting was observed in Arabidopsis cell suspensions and dual targeted to mitochondria and plastids in onion epidermal cells (Figure  7 ). For PpNDC1 only plastid targeting was observed in both Arabidopsis suspension and onion epidermal cells (Figure  7 ). GFP tagging of PpNDC1 in Physcomitrella tissue resulted in only plastid targeting (Figure  7 ). These results suggest that in lower plants such as Physcomitrella, NDC1 proteins are only targeted to plastids, and in higher plants such as Arabidopsis and
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
 Saccharomyces cerevisiae , and  Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803  NADH dehydrogenases were downloaded from the NCBI website ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov ). Predictions of subcellular localizations were carried out using Predotar [ 61 ], TargetP [ 62 ] and Wolfpsort [ 63 ]. The ATP predictor [ 64 ] was also utilized to predict the probability of a given protein to be dual targeted to mitochondria and plastids. Peroxisomal targeting was predicted using the PTS1 predictor [ 29 ],
] or the RIKEN Bioresource Center [ 68 ]. cDNA or cDNA clones were used as templates to amplify full-length cDNAs or the last C-terminal 10 amino acids prior to the stop codon for cloning into N and C-terminal GFP vectors [ 3 , 25 ] using recombinant Gateway technology (Invitrogen, Sydney). The targeting signals of the  Pisum sativum  small subunit of 1,5 – ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (SSU) and  Cucubita sp . malate synthase were fused to RFP and used as a plastid and peroxisomal markers respectively [ 3 , 69 ]. For mitochondrial controls three different constructs were utilised. For Arabidopsis suspension cells the targeting signal of the  Glycine max  alternative oxidase (AOX) was
and onion epidermal cells as previously described [ 3 ]. Briefly, 5 μg of each GFP and RFP plasmid were co-precipitated onto gold particles and bombarded onto 4-day-old Arabidopsis cell suspensions and freshly peeled onion epidermal cells using the PDS-1000/He biolistic transformation system (Bio-Rad, Sydney). For putative Physcomitrella proteins, transformation was also performed on 7-day-old protonemal tissues. Following incubation for 12–24 h at 22°C (25°C for Physcomitrella) in the dark, GFP and RFP expression was visualized at 100X magnification
