ABSTRACT:
Pharmacological evidence suggests that anion channel-mediated plasma membrane anion effluxes are crucial in early defense signaling to induce immune responses and hypersensitive cell death in plants. However, their molecular bases and regulation remain largely unknown. We overexpressed Arabidopsis  SLAC1 , an S-type anion channel involved in
tobacco BY-2 cells and analyzed the effect on cryptogein-induced defense responses including fluxes of Cl −  and other ions, production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), gene expression and hypersensitive responses. The SLAC1-GFP fusion protein was localized at the plasma membrane in BY-2 cells. Overexpression of  SLAC1  enhanced cryptogein-induced Cl −  efflux and extracellular alkalinization as well as rapid/transient and slow/prolonged phases of NADPH oxidase-mediated ROS production, which was suppressed by an anion channel inhibitor, DIDS. The overexpressor also showed enhanced sensitivity to cryptogein to induce downstream immune responses, including the induction of defense marker genes and the hypersensitive cell death. These results suggest that SLAC1 expressed in BY-2 cells mediates cryptogein-induced plasma membrane Cl −  efflux to positively modulate the elicitor-triggered activation of other ion fluxes, ROS as well as a wide range of defense signaling pathways. These findings shed light on the
RESULTS:
in BY-2 cells Arabidopsis SLAC1 is an S-type anion channel located at the plasma membrane in guard cells  [20] ,  [22] . To study intracellular localization of the SLAC1 protein expressed in BY-2 cells, we introduced the GFP construct fused to the C-terminus of SLAC1 into BY-2 protoplasts and examined its intracellular localization by confocal laser scanning microscopy. When GFP alone was expressed, it localized to the nucleus and the cytoplasm ( Fig. 2 ; d-f). In contrast, the SLAC1-GFP fusion protein was specifically targeted to the plasma membrane; fluorescent images of SLAC1-GFP were clearly different from those of FM4-64, a marker for internal membranes ( Fig. 2 ; a-c), indicating that SLAC1 functions at the plasma membrane in BY-2 cells as in Arabidopsis guard cells. 10.1371/journal.pone.0070623.g002 Figure 2 Intracellular localization of the SLAC1 protein in tobacco BY-2 cells. Confocal fluorescence images ( a - f ) of BY-2 protoplast expressing SLAC1-GFP ( a – c ) or GFP ( d–f ) stained with the fluorescent styryl membrane probe FM4-64. Fluorescence of GFP ( a  and  d ) and FM4-64 ( b  and  e ). Scale bar:
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
;. Relative mRNA abundances were calculated using the standard curve method and normalized to corresponding  NtActin  and  AtTUB2  gene levels. Standard samples of known template amounts were used to quantify PCR products. Intracellular localization of GFP fusion proteins The green fluorescence protein (GFP) sequence derived from sGFP  [35]  was fused to the C terminus of Arabidopsis  SLAC1  cDNA and was cloned into a transient assay vector pUC19 downstream of a CaMV  35S  promoter. The original sGFP plasmid was used as a control. Protoplasts were prepared from 3 d BY-2 cells using a standard method  [29] , and plasmids were introduced into BY-2 protoplasts by polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation  [36] . One day after transformation, GFP fluorescence images were observed using a LSM 5 EXCITER confocal fluorescence microscope with a C-Apochromat 40×/1.2W corr (water) (Carl Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany) as an objective lens. Images were processed using the Zeiss LSM Image Browser (Carl Zeiss Inc.) and
