ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
until early telophase. Bar, 10 µm. (D) Localization of AtTPX2-GFP in  Arabidopsis  cell suspension culture overexpressing AtTPX2-GFP. AtTPX2-GFP was predominantly localized with ‘dots’ or ‘seeds’ (arrowheads), later elongated into bundled fibres around (cage-like structures) and inside the nuclei (arrows). Frequency of overexpressing cells ranged between 10–40% depending on the transformation event, bar, 10 µm. (E) Relative expression
formed in the vicinity of the nuclear envelope and in the nuclei of cells overexpressing AtTPX2 Cultured cells and seedlings of  A. thaliana  were transformed with plasmids containing full-length C- and N- terminal AtTPX2 protein fusions with GFP, under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S constitutive promoter. After selection, stable cell lines were derived ( Petrovská  et al. , 2012 ). Both C- and N- terminal AtTPX2-GFP fusion proteins showed similar localizations. The AtTPX2-GFP was observed in nuclei, the perinuclear region and, in a cell cycle-specific manner, with mitotic microtubular arrays. The localization of AtTPX2-GFP fusion protein was similar for dividing cultured cells and cells of  Arabidopsis  seedlings ( Fig. 1C ). The AtTPX2-GFP signal was present with perinuclear microtubules in preprophase, with kinetochore microtubular fibres in metaphase and anaphase, and with early phragmoplast in cytokinesis. It was previously found that the cell cycle-specific microtubular localization of AtTPX2-GFP requires Aurora binding ( Petrovská  et al. , 2012
interaction of AtTPX2-GFP with Aurora kinase ( Petrovská  et al. , 2012 ) suggest that the AtTPX2-GFP fusion protein is functional. As early as 48h after transformation, expressed fusion protein showed diffused distribution in cytoplasm with accumulation in nuclei; a later AtTPX2 signal was predominantly associated with dots and patches in nuclei and as fibrillar structures located inside the nuclei and in the perinuclear area ( Fig. 1D ). The effects of overproduction of AtTPX2 N- and C-terminal GFP fusion proteins were similar, suggesting that the GFP moiety did not interfere with the function of AtTPX2 in fibre formation. Overexpression of AtTPX2-GFP was confirmed by real-time qPCR ( Fig. 1E ). Microscopic analysis of AtTPX2-overexpressing cells showed that the dots of AtTPX2-GFP in interphase nuclei ( Fig. 1D , arrowheads) were formed within a period of 3 d from transformation. AtTPX2-GFP dots and patches were gradually built into thick fibrillar structures ( Fig. 1D , arrows). The AtTPX2-GFP signal was attached to filamentous structures reminiscent of microtubules that were arranged into cage-like structures surrounding the nuclei ( Fig. 1D , arrows). To prove whether AtTPX2-decorated fibres in AtTPX2-overexpressing cells represent cytoskeletal polymers, this study performed a series
2B , arrow). Thicker bundles, heavily labelled with AtTPX2-GFP, showed a weaker signal for α-tubulin ( Fig. 2A , arrowheads), probably due to the lower accessibility of the epitope to the anti-α-tubulin antibody. Fig. 2. AtTPX2 localization with ectopic perinuclear and nuclear microtubules in  Arabidopsis  cells overexpressing AtTPX2-GFP. (A) AtTPX2-GFP foci localized with α-tubulin in the nucleus (arrow) and AtTPX2-GFP partially loaded on α-tubulin fibres (arrowheads) in cells with foci of overexpressed AtTPX2-GFP. Serial sections (0.4 µm z-steps) of the cell immunostained by anti-GFP antibody (green) and anti-α-tubulin antibody (red) with chromatin stained by DAPI (blue)
the treatment with 5 µM APM for 2.5h, microtubular arrays in cell overexpressing AtTPX2-GFP (AtTPX2 OEX ) were stable after the same treatment. Bars, 10 µm. Treatment of cells overexpressing AtTPX2 with the microtubule-depolymerizing drug APM showed that the nuclear and perinuclear microtubular bundles were resistant to drug-induced depolymerization. As shown in  Fig. 2C , the microtubular arrays persisted in 98% of 5 µM APM- treated cells ( n  = 112), showing overexpression of AtTPX2-GFP. Microtubules were largely depolymerized
remnants of kinetochore microtubules decorated with AtTPX2-GFP were observed ( Fig. 2C , inset II). Taxol treatment did not result in further bundling or stabilization of ectopic microtubules in AtTPX2-GFP-overexpressing cells ( Supplementary Fig. S2 ). Serial sections of nuclei and 3-D reconstructions showed a network of microtubules decorated with AtTPX2 inside the nuclei and in the area adjacent to the nuclei ( Fig. 3A ). Thick intertwined bundles of microtubules were present around the nuclei ( Fig. 3A , arrow) and anchored to the nucleus at the cell periphery ( Fig. 3A , arrowheads). More detailed analyses using Imaris sectioning of nuclei of AtTPX2-GFP-overexpressing cells confirmed the formation of fibrillar structures inside the nuclei, in the vicinity of chromatin ( Fig. 3B , cross I) and also inside the nucleoli ( Fig. 3B , cross II). To prove nuclear location of ectopic arrays, cells overexpressing AtTPX2-GFP  in vivo  were analysed. As shown in  Fig. 3C , fibres decorated with AtTPX2-GFP were observed, together with intranuclear foci of overexpressed TPX2. Fig. 3. Three-dimensional reconstruction and analysis of microtubular arrays in  Arabidopsis  cells overexpressing AtTPX2-GFP. (A) Representative images from 3D reconstruction of cells with AtTPX2-decorated fibres around and inside nuclei; Microtubular fibres in the perinuclear area are twisted (arrow), the microtubular fibres anchored nuclei to cell periphery (arrowheads); bar, 10 µm. (B) Two Imaris
 plane in the main panel; lower panel  x-z  shows cross-section by  x  plane perpendicular to  z  plane in the main panel; bar, 5 µm. (C) Serial z-stacks of nucleus of cell overexpressing AtTPX2-GFP analysed  in vivo . Sections from nuclear surface to the centre (left to right) showed perinuclear fibres and intranuclear foci and fibres decorated by AtTPX2 (arrowhead); bar, 5 µm. These data showed that overexpressed AtTPX2-GFP protein was initially present in nuclear foci and patches, and later, fibrillar microtubular arrays were formed in nuclei and the perinuclear area. The ectopic microtubular fibres, heavily decorated with AtTPX2-GFP, were resistant to microtubular drugs. Interaction of importin with AtTPX2-GFP suggests involvement of the Ran cycle in TPX2-mediated formation of microtubular arrays. Importin binds TPX2 protein and imports it into the nucleus, and RanGTPase sequesters the TPX2 nuclear pool before breakdown of the nuclear envelope ( Gruss  et
in the process of AtTPX2-mediated formation of microtubular arrays, the current work analysed the immunolocalization of importin and Ran in AtTPX2-GFP-overproducing cells ( Fig. 4  and  Supplementary Fig. S3 ). The signal for importin was observed in nuclei, associated with the nuclear envelope, and with intranuclear and perinuclear microtubular fibres ( Fig. 3 ). Quantitative co-localization analyses of AtTPX2 and importin were performed using the ImageJ plugin, JACoP ( Bolte and Cordeliéres, 2006 ). The analyses showed high degrees of co-localization of AtTPX2-GFP, with patchy patterns of importin on perinuclear fibres ( Fig. 4A , arrowhead), and with microtubular fibres extending from the perinuclear area to the periphery ( Fig. 4B , arrow). All coefficients correctly reported a strong overlap between the two channels ( Supplementary Fig. S5 ). Fig. 4. Immunolocalization of importin and Ran in AtTPX2-GFP-overproducing cells. (A, B) AtTPX2 and importin colocalized in the vicinity of the nuclei (B, arrowhead), with the AtTPX2-decorated microtubular fibres (A, B, arrows), and in intranuclear foci (A, arrowhead). Colocalization was analysed by ImageJ software with JACoP plugin (
full-length molecule of AtTPX2-GFP above 100kDa and several degradation products. (D, E) Representative images of immunofluorescence labelling of the cells overexpressing AtTPX2-GFP (green), immunostained with anti-importin (red), with anti-Ran (magenta); chromatin stained by DAPI (blue). (D) Importin signal was nuclear (two asterisks), localized around nuclei (arrowhead) and colocalized with some of the AtTPX2 foci (arrow) in overexpressing cells with AtTPX2-GFP foci and patches. Nuclear signal for importin was reduced (asterisk) in cells where AtTPX2-GFP fibres were formed and it localized with the fibres around nuclei and in the nuclei (hash mark). (E) Signal for Ran in the nuclei of cells with AtTPX2 perinuclear fibres was not above the level of signal found in untransformed cells (arrowheads). Importin nuclear signal declined in the cells with AtTPX2-GFP fibres (arrow) while a portion of signal for importin localized with AtTPX2 perinuclear fibres. Bars, 10 µm. Previous experiments used GFP co-immunoprecipitation to show an interaction of AtAurora1-RFP with AtTPX2-GFP ( Petrovská  et al. , 2012 ). The current work performed GFP co-immunoprecipitation to provide evidence for an interaction between AtTPX2-GFP
bands for the AtTPX2-GFP protein and its degradation products were detected with anti-GFP antibody in a sample of immunopurified AtTPX2-GFP ( Fig. 4C ). Next, Ran protein was immunolocalized in AtTPX2-overexpressing cells. The signal for Ran was stronger in nuclei with AtTPX2-GFP nuclear dots and patches, where 83% of nuclei ( n  = 132) showed higher levels of the Ran signal compared to the untransformed controls ( Supplementary Fig. S3 ). On the other hand, only 23% of nuclei (
). This finding suggests that the Ran nuclear signal was weakening during microtubular array assembly. Multiple labelling showed that, similarly to Ran, the importin signal was enriched in nuclei of overexpressing cells where it co-localized with some of the AtTPX2-GFP foci and accumulated around NE ( Fig. 4D , arrow and arrowhead). In cells with assembled fibres, diminution of the nuclear signal for importin was even more pronounced compared to that observed for Ran ( Fig. 4D ,  E ). A smaller proportion of the importin signal was observed associated with the AtTPX2-GFP-decorated microtubular arrays. Plant γ-tubulin is associated with microtubular arrays, around the nuclear envelope, and in nuclei ( Dryková  et al. , 2003 ).  Petrovská  et al . (2012)  showed that γ-tubulin is localized with AtTPX2 and AtAurora1 on mitotic microtubular arrays. Therefore, this work analysed the localization of γ-tubulin in cells overexpressing AtTPX2-GFP. Signals for γ-tubulin were observed in a patchy pattern with microtubular bundles formed in the vicinity of the nuclei and extending to the cell periphery ( Fig. 5A ). Quantitative co-localization analyses of γ-tubulin and AtTPX2, using the ImageJ plugin JACoP, showed co-localization of γ-tubulin with AtTPX2-GFP-decorated microtubular arrays ( Fig. 5B 1, 2). However, the association of
AtTPX-GFP. (A) 3D analysis of cells overexpressing AtTPX2-GFP stained with anti-γ-tubulin antibody (red), DAPI (blue) obtained by laser scanning microscopy and 3D-reconstructed (Imaris, Bitplane). Still images from 3D reconstruction animation show γ-tubulin localized with AtTPX2-GFP-decorated fibres in vicinity of nuclear envelope (A, arrows), with intranuclear microtubules, and in patchy pattern on microtubular bundles extending from perinuclear area (arrowhead). (B) γ-Tubulin colocalized with AtTPX2 on microtubular fibres extending from perinuclear area to the cytoplasm and
n  = 128). Bars, 10 µm. Together, the immunolocalization and immunopurification data suggest a function for importin with plant AtTPX2. The accumulation of importin and Ran in the nuclei of overexpressing cells indicates a nuclear import of overexpressed AtTPX2-GFP. Diminution of the nuclear signal for importin, as observed in cells with microtubular arrays, indicates that microtubule formation was triggered by sequestered AtTPX2, possibly Ran cycle-dependent. The presence of an importin signal with AtTPX2 on ectopic microtubular fibres suggests
for localization of TPX2 on mitotic microtubules, is dispensable for the formation and organization of the ectopic peri/intranuclear microtubules in AtTPX2-overexpressing cells. Fig. 6. Localization of AtTPX2 and AtAurora1 in control and ZM447439-treated cells overproducing AtTPX2. (A) Localization of AtTPX2-GFP and AtAurora1-RFP from the prophase until the early telophase in  Arabidopsis  cells. (B) Weak signal of AtAurora1 with AtTPX2 (arrow) in the nuclei of  Arabidopsis . (C) AtTPX2 fibres in TPX2-overproducing cells were resistant to Aurora kinase inhibitor
apoptosis and necrosis ( Danon  et al. , 2000 ); however, changes in the plasma membrane recognized by Evans blue might be an early indicator of cells undergoing DNA fragmentation prior to TUNEL-detectable DNA breakage. Overexpressing cells with AtTPX2-GFP-labelled fibres were not stained with Evans blue ( Supplementary Fig. S10 ). The formation of AtTPX2-decorated
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
 AtAurora1   Molecular cloning of  AtTPX2  (At1g03780) and  AtAurora1  (At4g32830) for N- and C-terminal fusions was performed according to  Petrovská  et al . (2012) . Gateway binary vectors pK7WGF2,0 for N-terminal GFP fusion, pH7WGR2,0 for N-terminal RFP fusion ( Karimi  et al. , 2002 ), pMDC43 for C-terminal GFP fusion ( Curtis and Grossniklaus, 2003 ), and pB7RWG2,0 for C-terminal RFP fusion ( Karimi  et al. , 2002 ) for  AtTPX2  cloning were used, and pGEM T-Easy P2R-P3 (Invitrogen), pGEM T-Easy P4-P1R (Invitrogen), pGEM T-Easy 221 (Invitrogen), and pK7m34GW (purchased from Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium) for  AtAurora1  cloning were used. Stable transformation of cell suspension cultures and plants Suspension cultures of  Arabidopsis thaliana  cv. Columbia and cv. Lansberg erecta (Ler) with stable expression of AtTPX2-GFP or/and AtAurora1-RFP were derived as described in  Petrovská  et al . (2012) , using the techniques of  Mathur  et al.  (1998)  and  Koroleva  et al.  (2005) .  Arabidopsis  Columbia plants were transformed with AtTPX2-GFP using the floral-dip method ( Clough and Bent, 1998 ) as described in  Petrovská  et al . (2012) . Quantitative real-time PCR analysis Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) was performed following MIQE recommendations ( Bustin  et al.
using GFP-Trap A and RFP-Trap A (ChromoTek, Planegg-Martinsried, Germany) according to the manufacturer’s instructions using the modified protocol described in  Petrovská  et al . (2012) . The extract from the  A. thaliana  cell culture expressing AtTPX2-GFP or co-expressing AtAurora1-RFP and AtTPX2-GFP (protein concentration 3–4mg ml –1 ) after centrifugation at 10,000  g  for 10min were used directly or solubilized by 1% NP-40 for 1h at 4 °C. The extracts were supplemented with double concentration of inhibitors of proteases, with inhibitors of phosphatases and 50 µM MG132 (Sigma) and incubated with GFP-Trap or RFP-Trap beads for 1.5h at 4 °C. As a negative control, GFP immunoprecipitate from wild-type Ler  Arabidopsis  culture was used. The immunoprecipitated proteins were released by elution with glycine (pH 2.5). Proteins in the eluates were resolved by SDS-PAGE and analysed for importin, γ-tubulin, and AtAurora1 by immunoblotting with rabbit polyclonal anti-importin antibody 1:3000 (Secant Chemicals), affinity-purified rabbit polyclonal antibody AthTU 1:2,500 ( Dryková  et al. , 2003 ), anti-actin 1:1000 (Affinity BioReagents), anti-GFP and anti-RFP 1:2000
monoclonal antibody DM1A (Sigma) at a dilution of 1:500, monoclonal anti-γ-tubulin TU-32 (kindly provided by Pavel Dráber from IMG, Prague, Czech Republic) diluted 1:10, affinity purified rabbit polyclonal antibody AthTU 1:1000 ( Dryková  et al. , 2003 ), anti-GFP antibody (Abcam) at a dilution 1:1000, anti-actin (Affinity BioReagents) at a dilution 1:1000, anti-phospho-histone H3 (Ser10) antibody (Cell
mode to avoid bleed-through; excitation and emission wavelengths were 405 and 425–460nm for DAPI, 473 and 485–545nm for FITC or DyLight 488, 559 and 575–620nm for Cy3 or DyLight 550, and 635 and 655–755nm for Alexa Fluor 647. Green fluorescent protein was excited by 473nm and emission was detected from 485 to 545nm.
