ABSTRACT:
thought to carry out important functions in the establishment and maintenance of cell polarity by moving cellular components such as organelles, vesicles, or protein complexes along the actin cytoskeleton. In  Arabidopsis thaliana , disruption of the myosin  XIK  gene leads to reduced elongation of the highly polar root hairs, suggesting that the encoded motor protein is involved in this cell growth. Detailed live-cell observations in
RESULTS:
not observe clear differences in marker distribution between WT and  xik  root hairs. For example, the ER marker, ER-cb [ 40 ], showed the same distribution in WT and mutant root hairs ( Figure S4A ). Similarly, YFP-PH FAPP1 , which binds to phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PI4P) at the plasma membrane as well as to some intracellular vesicles [ 45 ], showed indistinguishable localization in the two genotypes ( Figure S4B ). Actin dynamics are reduced in 
of the root hair. (B) Within 1.5 min of LatB treatment, YFP-XIK intensity in the tip decreased while actin cables showed first signs of disorganization with the appearance of short filaments in the apical region. At this time, large vacuoles were seen to approach the tip (e.g. left DIC image). (C) After 5 min of LatB treatment, YFP-XIK was largely absent from the tip and formed larger clusters in the subapical and shank regions. YFP-FABD2 cables were still present
tip region, we observed a loss of YFP-XIK signal in the same area (n=8;  Figure 6 , left column;  Movie S4 ). This loss of YFP-XIK accumulation ( Figure 6F ) was accompanied by the appearance of vacuoles in the apical area ( Figure 6B,C , DIC image), indicating a dramatic reorganization of the tip cytoplasm. During LatB treatment, YFP-XIK began to appear in several larger aggregates dispersed throughout the root hair ( Figure 6C ). These aggregates did not represent accumulations of cytosol since they did not coincide with the soluble mCherry marker (data not shown). Taken together, our data indicate that growing root hairs respond rapidly to moderate concentrations of LatB by reorganizing their actin cytoskeleton near the tip which is accompanied by a rapid loss of myosin XIK near the tip. YFP-XIK partially colocalizes with several vesicle markers that accumulate at the tip of root hairs The accumulation of YFP-XIK in the root hair
area [ 8 ]. In addition, the Rho/Rac-like small G-protein ROP2 has been recognized as an essential regulator of tip growth that accumulates both at the apical plasma membrane and on vesicles near the apex [ 50 ]. Similarly, YFP-RHD4 has been shown to accumulate at the tip of growing root hairs and  rhd4-1  mutants showed stochastic YFP-RabA4b fluctuations [ 38 ]. Alternatively, the tip region is known to be rich in cytosol and YFP-XIK accumulation might simply reflect free diffusion into the accessible space in the tip. Thus, to gain additional insight into the mechanism of XIK accumulation at the tip and its likely cargo, we compared the distribution of YFP-XIK
root hair cells ( Table 1  and  Figure S6 ). A similar distribution in the cytoplasm was observed for mCherry-ROP2, except that this marker was also present at the apical plasma membrane ( Figure 7C ). Thus, YFP-XIK accumulation peaks closer to the apex than RHD4 or ROP2-containing vesicles. Finally, we established that YFP-XIK is not simply freely diffusing in the tip region by comparing it to a soluble cytosol marker, mCherry, and observing that their distributions in the tip did not match ( Figure 7D ). Specifically, we found that YFP-XIK accumulation peaked approximately 3 µm ahead of the mCherry marker ( Table 1  and  Figure
root hairs. Also compare Movie S6. (b) Partial colocalization of CFP-RHD4 and YFP-XIK. CFP-RHD4 labeled vesicles accumulated further away from the root hair tip than YFP-XIK which resulted in partial overlap with the YFP-XIK signal. (C) mCherry-ROP2 localization in cytosol and plasma membrane. Localization of YFP-XIK was clearly distinguishable from both inactive mCherry-ROP2 in the cytosol and active mCherry-ROP2 at the plasma membrane. (D) Distribution of cytosolic mCherry was different from YFP-XIK localization at the root hair tip suggesting that accumulation of YFP-XIK at the tip did not reflect free diffusion. 10.1371/journal.pone.0076745.t001 Table 1 Protein distribution near the root hair tip. RabA4b RHD4 Cytosol n 7 7 9 CFP-RabA4b 2.0 ± 0.5 YFP-XIK 5.1 ± 1.3 4.6 ± 0.5 4.1 ± 0.3 CFP-RHD4 6.8 ± 0.8 mCherry 7.0 ± 1.0 Distance of maximal signal intensity from the tip in actively growing root hairs
Values represent mean ± sd and are given in µm. The maxima are statistically different from each other except for the different YFP-XIK data and the CFP-RHD4 and mCherry comparison (Tukey’s Multiple Comparison Test, p>0.05). ROP2 recruitment to the plasma membrane is impaired in  xik  root hairs ROP GTPases are crucial regulators of tip growth that coordinate calcium and ROS signaling [ 5 ,
in the tip of root hairs and pollen tubes although the inactive form of ROP proteins accumulates in the cytosol [ 53 ]. This general distribution was found in both wild type and  xik  root hairs expressing YFP-ROP2 or mCherry-ROP2 ( Figure 8A ), even though the signal at the PM of the mutant seemed slightly reduced.
represents average PM/CS ratio of a single root hair over a 3 min period. Some of the Col-0 root hairs expressed YFP-ROP2 instead of mCherry-ROP2. We also tested whether expression of YFP-XIK restored normal targeting of mCherry-ROP2 to the plasma membrane. Interestingly, the PM/CS ratio of mCherry-ROP2 did not change in the complemented mutants ( Figure 8C ; t-test between wild type and  XIKpro:YFP-XIK xik , p<0.0001, while t-test between  xik-3  and  XIKpro:YFP-XIK xik , p=
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
promoter, which extended 1244 bp upstream of the  XIK  start codon and included the first exon and intron of  XIK  (corresponding to nucleotides 6,938,624 -6,936,531 in TAIR10;  http://www.arabidopsis.org/ ). The promoter was followed by YFP (yellow fluorescence protein), a short linker DNA encoding ELYGGPGGSGSA, and the full-length  XIK  coding region. This construct was introduced to the binary plasmid pPZP221 (Genbank U10491 [ 32 ]) and transformed into  xik-3  mutants using
hairs was measured with the measurement plug-in in Openlab 5 (Improvision). Data were analyzed and graphed with Prism 5.0. Marker constructs and plant transformations Constructs and their transgenic plants are listed in  Table S1  online. Briefly,  YFP/mCherry-ROP2  was generated from amplified cDNA sequences based on the published sequence information [ 37 ].  YFP/CFP-RHD4  was constructed from amplified cDNA sequences with published primer information [ 38 ]. Constructs were transformed into wild type and  xik-3  mutants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation [ 33 ]. Stable transgenic plants were screened with appropriate antibiotics or herbicides and observed under a fluorescence microscope. For  EXP7pro:YFP/mCherry , the DNA fragment containing the  EXP7  promoter was obtained by PCR from genomic DNA with  EXP7pro-F  ( 5’- GCTAGC TTAGTTTATCTTTGGAAACGAAACGTAA-3’ ) and  EXP7pro-R  ( 5’- CCATGG T TCTAGA CCTAGCCTCTTTTTCTTTATTCTT-3’ ) ( [
digital CCD camera (ORCA-ER, Hamamatsu,  http://www.hamamatsu.com ) controlled by Openlab software (Improvision). For quantitative image analysis, a dark background image was captured under identical exposure settings and subtracted from all fluorescence images to remove camera noise. Analysis of YFP-RabA4b accumulation 35  Spro:YFP-RabA4b  in pCAMBIA, kindly provided by E. Nielsen (University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI) was transformed independently into Col-0 and  xik-3 . homozygous T3 seeds were grown for four days on vertical plates as described above before imaging.
the “Analyze Particles” command and measured for length and position in the cell. Image stacks were processed with a custom macro in ImageJ (available upon request). Analysis of ROP2 recruitment at the plasma membrane Stable transgenic lines of  EXP7pro:mCherry/YFP-ROP2 and d35Spro:YFP-ROP2  were isolated in both wild type and  xik-3  background. Individual root hairs were imaged every 5 s for 3 min. Images were exported to ImageJ and analyzed by a custom macro (available upon request) that tracked
well as of the cytosol 0.5 µm behind the plasma membrane ( Figure S3 ) was measured and exported to Excel (Microsoft,  http://www.microsoft.com ) for quantitative analysis. Statistical tests were performed in Prism 5 (GraphPad,  http://www.graphpad.com ). YFP-XIK localization analysis XIKpro:YFP-XIK xik-3  plants were observed for their YFP expression in root hairs. Microscope settings were identical to the analysis of RabA4b accumulation except that longer exposure times were used. Sequential images were obtained under 63X with 2X binning for 1 min with 1 s intervals. For drug
root of a seedling in the observation chambers (100 nM of LatB from 1 mM stock in DMSO). Images were taken for 60 min in 30 sec intervals and processed as described above. Colocalization analysis For colocalization tests,  d35Spro:CFP-RABA4B, d35Spro:CFP-RHD4 ,  EXP7pro:mCherry-ROP2 , and  EXP7pro:mCherry  were transformed into homozygous  XIKpro:YFP-XIK xik-3  plants. T1 seedlings were screened on media with double selection and moved to a vertical plate without selection for additional growth for a day to allow normal growth of root hairs. Once seedlings started producing normally shaped
