ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
polypeptides when the 42-amino acid regions we expressed are modeled. Localization of YFP::at myosin XI PAL sub-domain fusions Previously we have fused the PAL sub-domain from Arabidopsis myosin XI-F to YFP and have shown that the fusion protein labels plastids and stromules (Sattarzadeh et al.,  2009 ). We have now made constructs with the remaining 11 PAL sub-domains from the Arabidopsis class XI myosins fused to YFP at the N-terminus. We report YFP fusion information for XI-C and
proteins was examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) in leaf epidermal cells of  N. benthamiana  following agroinfiltration. Except for the YFP::At XI-2 PAL fusion, all tested fusions labeled vesicles in the same size range as the Golgi, endosomes, and mitochondria (Figures  2A–E ). The YFP fusions with myosin XI-2 failed to localize to any vesicular structures and strongly labeled the plasma membrane (Figure  2A ; Figure  S2 ). The YFP fusion with the At XI-A PAL sub-domain was usually seen also in the cytoplasm; however, some unidentified vesicular structures were sometimes observed in a few cells (Figure  2B ). YFP fusion with the homologous region in yeast (RVI: Required for Vacuole Inheritance) resulted in diffuse cytoplasmic labeling in plant cells, but some punctate loci could be discerned at the plasma membrane (Figure  2F ). Figure 2 Transient expression of YFP:: Myosin PAL sub-domains.  Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression of YFP fusions of PAL sub-domains in epidermal cells of  N. benthamiana   (A)  At XI-2.  (B)  At XI-A.  (C)  At XI-C.  (D)  At XI-F.  (E)  XI-K.  (F)  ScMyo2p RVI (Required for Vacuole Inheritance). An arrow marks some of the vesicles observed with YFP:: At XI-A PAL. Scale bar = 50 μm. In order to identify the YFP-labeled organelles, we performed co-localization studies by co-expressing the myosin YFP-PAL fusions transiently with CFP or mCherry organelle markers in leaf epidermal cells of  N. benthamiana . The YFP fusions with the PAL sub-domain of myosins XI-1, XI-D, XI-G, XI-H, XI-I and XI-K co-localized with the Golgi marker (Figure  3 ). Some but not all Golgi were labeled by the YFP::PAL fusion of myosin XI-B (Figures  3D–F ). Vesicles labeled by YFP fusions with the PAL sub-domain of XI-C and XI-E did not coincide with the Golgi marker (data not shown). Figure 3 Co-expression of YFP::Myosin XI PAL sub-domain with CFP and mCherry markers for Golgi in epidermal leaf cells of  N. benthamiana  (A) At XI-1. (D)  At XI-I B.  (G)  At XI-D.  (J)  At XI-G.  (M)  At XI-H.  (P)  At XI-I  (S)  At XI-K.  (B,E,H,K,N,Q,T)  Golgi marker.  (C,F,I,L,O,R,U ) Merged images of YFP (yellow) and mCherry (red) or CFP (blue). Scale bar = 50 μm YFP fusions with the PAL sub-domain from myosins XI-C, XI-E, XI-G, XI-H, XI-I, and XI-K co-localized with a mitochondrial
(J)  At XI-I  (M)  At XI-K.  (B,E,H,K,N)  mCherry mitochondrial marker.  (C,F,I,L,O)  Merged images of YFP (yellow) and mCherry (red). Scale bar = 50 μm. Figure 5 Lack of co-localization with mitochondrial and peroxisome markers.  Co-expression of YFP::Myosin XI PAL sub-domains with mCherry markers for mitochondria and peroxisomes in epidermal leaf cells of  N. benthamiana .  (A  and  D ) At XI-B.  (G)  At XI-H.  (J)  At XI-I  (M)  At XI-K.  (B)  mCherry mitochondrial marker.  (E,H,K,N)  mCherry peroxisomes.  (C,F,I,L,O)  Merged images of YFP (yellow) and mCherry (red). Scale bar = 50 μm Eight of the YFP fusions to PAL sub-domain (AtXI-1,B,C,D,E,G,I and K) appear to label the nuclear envelope in epidermal cells (Figures  6A–I ). Even though the homologous region in yeast interacts with vacuoles, we observed only one plant PAL sub-domain, from XI-B, that label structures that are characteristic of tonoplast membranes in appearance (Xu et al.,  2006 ) (Figure  7 ). Most cells expressing XI-B exhibited fluorescent Golgi, vesicles, and nuclear envelopes (Figure  7 ). The positive and negative co-localizations are summarized in Table  1 . Figure 6 Transient expression of YFP fusions of  A. thalian a class XI myosin PAL sub-domains in epidermal leaf cells of
localization of PAL sub-domains of  A. thaliana  class XI myosins N-terminally fused to YFP and transiently expressed in leaves epidermal cells of  N. benthamiana . Class XI PAL sub-domain colocalization PAL domain No colocalization At XI-1 Golgi Nuclear envelope At XI-2 Plasma membrane At XI-A Cytoplasm, Vesicles At XI-B Golgi Golgi (some)
Golgi, Mitochondria Peroxisome At XI-I Golgi, Mitochondria Peroxisome Nuclear envelope At XI-K Golgi, Mitochondria, Nuclear envelope Peroxisome Organelles that were observed not to co-localize with a particular myosin are shown in italics . Motility of the vesicles labeled with YFP::PAL sub-domain fusions High levels of expression are often achieved following agroinfiltration. When a myosin tail domain
a dominant negative effect on movement might occur if multiple PAL sub-domains were expressed, we agroinfiltrated simultaneously four strains, containing YFP-PAL sub-domain fusions from myosins XI-H, XI-I, and XI-K, along with a strain carrying either a mCherry marker for Golgi or for mitochondria. About a third of the cells expressing YFP exhibited YFP-labeled vesicles that were stationery or poorly motile (Figures  8D–F ). Agroinfiltration does not result
one or more YFP-labeled PAL sub-domains localized to nearly immobile vesicles, while an adjacent cell is expressing only the mCherry mitochondrial marker and therefore exhibits motile mitochondria (Movie  S5 ). We provide an example of a cell expressing mCherry-Golgi and YFP:: PAL sub-domains located on immobile vesicles in Movie  S6 . When the mCherry Golgi marker is infiltrated by itself, the Golgi exhibit high motility (Movie  S7 ). We also observed minimal motility of YFP-labeled vesicles in many cells when we co-infiltrated three strains containing YFP-PAL sub-domain fusions from myosins XI-H, XI-I, and XI-K, without simultaneous co-infiltration of a strain
with YFP:: XI-K PAL when it is expressed alone; however, in (Figures  8D–F) , no movement of vesicles occurs following co-infiltration of XI-H, XI-I, and XI-K. We conclude that expression of multiple PAL sub-domains can impair movement of Golgi and mitochondria by a dominant negative effect. Figure 8 Sequential images indicating movement YFP::At XI-K PAL sub-domain-labeled organelles but lack of movement when multiple domains are infiltrated simultaneously. (A–C)   N. benthamiana  leaves were infiltrated with an
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
were infiltrated, the same total concentration of bacteria was used as for single infiltration. Fluorescent labeling of organelles and confocal laser scanning microscopy For labeling of mitochondria, peroxisomes, Golgi stacks and plasma membrane with mCherry fluorescent protein, binary vectors, CD3-991, CD3-984, CD3-967, and CD3-1008 (Nelson et al.,  2007 ) were used, respectively. According to Nelson et al. ( 2007 ), the mitochondrial marker was made by fusing the first 29 amino acids from the
mCherry. The Golgi CFP marker was made by Sattarzadeh et al. ( 2011 ) by fusing the first 52 N-terminal amino acids of a rat 2, 6-sialyl transferase (Boevink et al.,  1998 ). For DNA staining by 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), leaves were immersed
with a TCS-SP2 confocal scanning head (Leica Microsystems, Heidelberg, Germany) as described (Sattarzadeh et al.,  2009 ). Movies  S5 – S7  were captured by using an Andor XD revolution spinning disc confocal microscope. Infiltrations of each YFP::PAL fusion were performed at 3 separate times and approximately 100 cells in total were observed for each YFP::PAL fusion. The images shown represent the appearance of the majority of the labeling patterns for each fusion. We note in the text if an image is provided of labeling pattern that was only rarely observed. Bioinformatic analysis and structural
