ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
Results TRB1 co-localizes with telomeres Although a possible association of GFP–TRB1 ( 35Spro:GFP-TRB1 ) with the telomere was suggested previously ( Dvorackova  et al. , 2010 ), whether the nuclear speckles are directly associated with telomeres remained to be determined. Here, we took advantage of the well-established protocol of  Nicotiana
was shown by  Dvorackova  et al . (2010) , labelling the whole nucleus, with strong nucleolar signal and relatively strong nuclear speckles. Nuclei from transformed leaves were isolated and used for telomere peptide nucleic acid FISH. Fluorescence from GFP–TRB1 remained very bright during the isolation procedure; however, a gentle denaturation step was necessary during the FISH protocol to preserve the integrity of the GFP signal. These FISH results showed that telomeres co-localize or
TRB1 (Figure 1 d, images 4 and 5). These results provide  in situ  evidence of telomere occupancy by TRB1. Figure 1 Co-localization of TRB protein with telomeric probe.Nuclei isolated from  N. benthamiana  were transformed with  35Spro:GFP-TRB1  construct and hybridized with telomeric peptide nucleic acid (PNA) Cy3-labelled probe.(a) Co-localization between GFP–TRB1 nuclear speckles (green) and telomeric PNA probe (red) is detectable in most of the foci.(b) Control experiment without telomeric probe showing very little background present in the red channel.(c) Confocal image of GFP–TRB1 expression in an  N. benthamiana  leaf
a TRB1–GFP construct driven by the native promoter ( TRB1pro:TRB1-GFP ) ( Dvorackova  et al. , 2010 ). Despite using the native promoter, enhanced levels of TRB1–GFP protein were observed (see below). TRB1–GFP protein was immunoprecipitated from purified nuclei using GFP-Trap A matrix, which contains a single variable antibody domain that recognizes GFP. Non-specific binding of TRB1-GFP to the GFP-Trap A matrix was excluded by precise detection of GFP in all fractions (input, bound, unbound, wash, elution). We have shown that TRB1, but not TRB1-GFP is washed out (Figure S1). DNA co-purifying with TRB1–GFP was dot-blotted onto nylon membranes, and visualized by hybridization with radioactively labelled telomeric probe. Figure 2  shows that TRB1 protein is indeed associated with telomeric sequence  in vivo , as telomeric sequence was repeatedly detected in TRB1–GFP but not wild-type samples. To
due to the high copy number of the telomeric DNA, we hybridized DNA co-purified with TRB–GFP with a centromeric probe. As our previous results ( Dvorackova  et al. , 2010 ) showed localization of TRB1 protein in the nucleus and nucleolus, another candidate sequence investigated for association with TRB1 was ribosomal DNA (rDNA). Only
is associated with telomeric sequence  in vivo . As a control, telomeric oligonucleotide (TTTAGGG) 4  was dot-blotted on the same membrane and visualized together with immunoprecipitated DNA. Analysis of TRB1 expression in trb1 mutant, wild-type and  TRB1pro:TRB1-GFP- transformed plants To examine the role of TRB1  in planta , we analysed T–DNA insertion line SALK_025147 (ecotype Col–0). Three parallel
isolated from Wt and mutant ( trb1−/− ) plants of line B using primers P4 + P5.(d) Immunodetection by Western blot analysis of TRB1 protein in Wt and mutant ( trb1−/− ) plants of line B and  TRB1pro:TRB1-GFP  plant nuclear extracts using specific antibody recognizing the Myb-like domain of TRB1 (anti-TRB1 1.2). The level of native TRB1 protein is lower compared to the TRB1–GFP fusion protein construct expressed under the control of the native promoter.(e) Immunolocalization of TRB1 protein using anti-GFP and anti-TRB1 antibody. The level of native TRB1 protein in the wild-type is very low. The selected plant line does not show GFP labelling in all cells, so some nuclei contain a wild-type level of TRB1 and others show higher expression due to TRB1–GFP. Thus the intensity of signal may be clearly measured as Wt and over-expressing nuclei are present together on one slide and may be clearly distinguished using specific anti-TRB1 protein antibody 1.2 and anti-GFP antibody. TRB proteins consist of three domains: Myb-like, histone-like and a coiled-coil domain (Figure 3 a). As no antibody recognizing
vivo  (Figure 3 e), in which TRB1 protein is visualized using either anti-TRB1 1.2 antibody or anti-GFP antibody. We tested both antibodies by indirect immunofluorescence on  trb1  mutant and GFP–TRB1-expressing plants. These experiments showed evenly distributed nuclear and nucleolar signals for both 1.2 and 5.2 antibodies. Antibody 1.2 did not detect any signal in  trb1−/−  plants, but antibody 5.2 recognizes some epitopes in  trb1−/−  (Figure
were observed on histidine-deficient plates. Co-transformation with an empty vector (AD/BD/vector) served as a negative control.(c) Bimolecular fluorescence complementation confirmed the interaction of TRB proteins with TERT fragments. Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts were co-transfected with 10 μg each of plasmids encoding nEYFP-tagged TRB clones, cEYFP-tagged TERT fragments or Gaut10 (as negative control) and mRFP-VirD2NLS (to label cell nuclei and to determine transfection efficiency). The cells were imaged by epifluorescence microscopy after overnight incubation. Clear nuclear interactions of TRB proteins with TERT fragments are observed on the protoplast images: YFP fluorescence (yellow), mRFP fluorescence (red), chloroplast autofluorescence (green pseudocolor); chloroplast autofluorescence is also visible in the YFP channel (indicated by arrows). Scale bars = 7 μm. To test whether the interactions observed in a yeast-two hybrid system are reproducible in the plant cell, we used a bimolecular fluorescence complementation assay (BiFC). Arabidopsis protoplasts were transfected with plasmids encoding nYFP-tagged TRB constructs and cYFP-tagged TERT fragments, and a clear intra-nuclear interaction was observed (Figure 5 c and Figure S7). The TERT fragments used in BiFC (TERT 1-271 and TERT 229-582) overlap with the fragments tested in the yeast two-hybrid system. The interaction was
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Experimental procedures Primers The sequences of all primers and probes used in this study are provided in Table S2. Plant material and construct generation The  35Spro:GFP-TRB1  plants and construct have been described previously ( Dvorackova  et al. , 2010 ). The  TRBpro:TRB1-GFP  construct was prepared as follows: genomic DNA from  A. thaliana  Col–0 was isolated using a DNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen,  http://www.qiagen.com/ ), and used as a template for PCR to amplify the TRB1 genomic sequence including
Fw + 3′ UTR Rev). The conditions used were in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions (Finnzymes). PCR products were precipitated using poly(ethylene glycol), and cloned into a Gateway multi-site system (Invitrogen,  http://www.lifetechnologies.com ), together with the GFP tag (GFP in pDONR221, provided by Keke Yi, College of life Sciences, Zhejiang University, China). pKm43GW ( Karimi  et al. , 2005 ) was used as the destination vector.  A. thaliana  Col–0 was subsequently transformed by floral dipping ( Clough and Bent, 1998 ), and transformants selected on MS medium containing 30 μg/ml kanamycin were scored for GFP expression. PCR-based genotyping of plant lines T–DNA insertion mutant plants of  trb1  (SALK_025147) in the Col–0 background were used. To distinguish between wild-type plants and those that were heterozygous or homozygous for the T–DNA insertion in the
for 45 sec and 72°C for 2 min, with a final extension at 72°C for 10 min. Nicotiana benthamiana  transformation, nuclei isolation and FISH Leaves of 5-week-old  N. benthamiana  plants were infiltrated with  Agrobacterium tumefaciens  containing  35Spro:GFP-TRB1  (vector pGWB6, strain LBA4404) ( Dvorackova  et al. , 2010 ), and  35Spro:p19  ( Silhavy  et al. , 2002 ) as described by  Voinnet  et al . (2003) . The infiltration medium contained
SSC at 37°C overnight. Post-hybridization washes were performed at 37°C using 2× SSC. Slides were counter-stained using 4,6–diamidino-2–phenylindole (1 μg/ml), and observed on a Zeiss ( http://www.zeiss.cz/ ) Axioimager Z1 using an AHF filter set. Immunolocalization Arabidopsis seeds expressing  TRB1pro:TRB1-GFP  under the control of the native promoter and  trb1  seeds were bleach-sterilized for 10 min, washed in water and sown onto half-strength MS medium/1% agar plates. Seedlings grown under the constant light, at 22°C for 2 weeks, then chopped into small pieces. Protoplasts were prepared as described by
 et al . (2008) . Slides were first blocked in a mixture of 2× block solution (Roche,  http://www.roche.cz )/1× PBS/5% goat serum at room temperature for 30 min, then incubated with primary antibodies [mouse anti-TRB 1.2 or 5.2 or, anti-GFP (Abcam ab290,  http://www.abcam.com/ ), all diluted 1:300] for 2 h at 37°C, and visualized using secondary antibodies A11001 and A21207 (Invitrogen) at 1:500 dilution. Immunblot analysis To determine the level of TRB1 protein in plants, we isolated nuclei as
by sonication using a Bioruptor (Diagenode,  http://www.diagenode.com ) and centrifuged (16 000  g /5 min/4°C). The matrix GFP-Trap A (Chromtec,  http://www.chromotek.com ) was blocked against non-specific interaction using 200 m m  ethanolamine, 1% BSA and the DNA sequences TR10–24–G and TR10–24–C (Table S2), which are not recognized by TRB proteins ( Schrumpfova  et al. ,
F–F2N_KpnI and R–F2N+BamHI, and plasmids encoding the tested proteins were used as templates. The amplified DNA fragments were gel-purified, digested with  Bst BI/ Sma I or  Kpn I/ Bam HI (New England Biolabs), and ligated into vectors pSAT1-nEYFP and pSAT1-cEYFP. As a negative control, we used an AtGaut10-cEYFP construct. To quantify transformation efficiency and to label cell nuclei, we co-transfected a plasmid expressing mRFP fused to the nuclear localization signal of the VirD2 protein of  A. tumefaciens  (mRFP-VirD2NLS;  Citovsky  et al. , 2006 ). The vectors and the mRFP-VirD2NLS and AtGaut10-cEYFP constructs were kindly provided by Stanton Gelvin (Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, IN, USA).  Arabidopsis thaliana  leaf protoplasts were prepared and transfected as described by  Wu  et al . (2009) . DNA (10 μg of each
microscope equipped with filters for YFP (Alexa Fluor 488), RFP (Texas Red) and CY5 (chloroplast autofluorescence). In vitro  translation and co-immunoprecipitation Proteins were expressed from the same constructs as used in the yeast two-hybrid system with a haemagglutinin tag (pGADT7; TRB1, 2 and 3 proteins) or a Myc
