ABSTRACT:
The  Arabidopsis thaliana  plasma membrane proton ATPase genes,  AHA1  and  AHA2 , are the two most highly expressed isoforms of an 11 gene family and are collectively essential for embryo development. We report the translational fusion of a tandem affinity-purification tag
frame in a genomic clone. Stable expression of TAP-tagged AHA1 in  Arabidopsis  rescues the embryonic lethal phenotype of endogenous double  aha1/aha2  knockdowns. Western blots of SDS-PAGE and Blue Native gels show enrichment of AHA1 in plasma membrane fractions and indicate a hexameric quaternary structure. TAP-tagged AHA1 rescue lines exhibited reduced vertical root growth. Analysis of the plasma membrane and soluble proteomes identified several plasma membrane-localized proteins with alterred abundance in TAP-tagged AHA1 rescue lines compared to wild type. Using affinity-purification mass spectrometry, we uniquely identified two additional AHA isoforms, AHA9 and AHA11, which copurified with TAP-tagged AHA1. In conclusion, we have generated transgenic 
RESULTS:
bands likely correspond to dimeric and hexameric complexes observed previously (Figure  2 ). 48 Figure 1 Detection of Ntapi:AHA1 in total microsomes (Mic), plasma membrane (PM), and intracellular membranes (non-PM). Size markers are in kDa. Upper panel is coomassie stained, and lower panel is a western blot probed with HRP-conjugated rabbit anti-goat IgG. Figure 2 Three micrograms of Ntapi:gAHA1 or wild-type plasma membrane protein was run on blue native gels. Proteins were transferred to membranes and probed with
how closely transgenic lines resembled wild-type plants beyond merely visible phenotypes. To this end, we compared the plasma membrane and soluble proteomes of  Ntapi:gAHA1  plants to wild-type and  gAHA1  rescue lines using a metabolically labeled mass spectrometry approach to determine whether expressing  Ntapi:AHA1  had proteomic consequences. Equal wet weights of seedlings grown
old wild-type/wild-type, wild-type/ gAHA1 , and wild-type/ Ntapi:gAHA1a  plants and performed biological duplicates for each experimental pair. Proteomic analysis of both soluble and plasma membrane proteomes was performed. The number of unique peptides and proteins identified by tandem mass spectrometry from each metabolically labeled tissue pair
relative quantification of the abundance of Ntapi:AHA1 in membrane and purified samples, the protein enrichment from upper-phase fractions by IgG resin is approximately 3.5-fold under mild washing conditions (Table  4 ). Addition of 150 mM NaCl further reduces MS identification of contaminating proteins but also
homogenization, purification, and MS analysis as previously described. Treatment of seedlings with 1 μM FC for 30 min increased purification of AHA11 and several 14-3-3 protein isoforms including GRF1, GRF2, and GRF3 (Table  6 ). Auxin also regulates plasma membrane proton pump
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
dry blotting system (Invitrogen). Membrane was allowed to dry 30 min. Immunoblotting was performed according to a standard protocol using rabbit anti-CBP and IRDye goat anti-rabbit (LI-COR). Membranes were visualized with a LI-COR Odyssey infrared-imaging system. Metabolic Labeling and Mass Spectrometry Seedlings for metabolically labeled mass spectrometry experiments were grown in 1× M&S micronutrient solution supplemented with 1.5 mM CaCl 2 , 0.75 mM MgSO 4 , 0.625 mM KH 2 PO
with a postloading mobile phase elution gradient of 0–40% B over 3 h (A, 0.1% formic acid; B, 95% CH 3 CN and 0.1% formic acid) at 200 nL/min. Data-dependent analysis was performed in the LTQ Orbitrap XL using FTMS preview mode and full MS 1  scan acquisition at 100 000 resolving power. The top five ions, excluding unassigned and +1 charge states, were repeatedly isolated with a 2.5 Da window for CID analysis in the linear ion trap
40 s with a repeat count of 1 throughout the duration of analysis. The TAIR9 proteome database was searched using Mascot v2.2, allowing one missed tryptic cleavage, +2 and +3 charge states, a peptide tolerance of 20 ppm, and MS/MS ion tolerance of 0.6 Da. Carbamidomethylation was set as a fixed modification, and phosphorylated
both replicates agreed. Proteins showing opposite abundance changes in reciprocal pairs were discarded. Mass Spectrometry of IgG-Purified Proteins IgG-purified, TEV-eluted protein samples were TCA/acetone-precipitated, and pellets were suspended in 7.4 μL of 8 M urea, 50 mM NH 4 HCO 3  (pH 8.5), and 1 mM Tris-HCl for 5 min and subsequently diluted
Agilent 1100 nanoflow system (Agilent Technologies) connected to a linear hybrid ion trap-orbitrap mass spectrometer (LTQ-Orbitrap XL, Thermo Fisher Scientific) equipped with a nanoelectrospray ion source. HPLC was performed on in in-house fabricated 15 cm C18 column packed with MAGIC C18AQ 3 μm particles (Michrom BioResources, Inc.) in a laser-pulled tip (P-2000, Sutter
ions for which the charge state could not be assigned were rejected from consideration for MS/MS. Quantitative Analysis Label-free raw data files were converted to Mascot generic format (mgf) through initial open-source mzXML format conversion using the Trans-Proteomic Pipeline (TPP) software suite version 4.4. Mgf files were searched against the  Arabidopsis thaliana  TAIR9
