ABSTRACT:
Here, we report that a novel HEAT-repeat protein, SHOOT GRAVITROPISM6 (SGR6), of Arabidopsis is involved in the control of morphological changes and dynamics of VM structures in endodermal cells, which are the gravity-sensing cells in shoots. SGR6 is a membrane-associated protein that is mainly localized to the VM in stem endodermal cells. The  sgr6  mutant stem exhibits a reduced gravitropic response. Higher plants utilize amyloplast sedimentation as a means to sense gravity direction. Amyloplasts
RESULTS:
SHOOT GRAVITROPISM 6 (SGR6) is mainly localized to the vacuolar membrane (VM). (A) Subfractionation by ultracentrifugation. ZIG was detected as the control of the integral membrane protein. (B) Intracellular localization of SGR6. The endodermal cells in stems of  SGR6pro:GFP-SGR6  and  VAM3pro:mRFP-VAM3/sgr6-1 vam3-1  were observed. Green, green fluorescent protein (GFP) fluorescence; red, red fluorescent protein (RFP) fluorescence. Asterisks indicate autofluorescence of Chl from plastids. d, e and f are insets in a, b and c, respectively. Scale bar = 10 µm. We first observed the endodermal cells of  SGR6pro:GFP-SGR6/sgr6-1 , the transgenic plant generated for the complementation test, to investigate which membrane existed in SGR6. The GFP signal was spotty along the periphery of the cells ( Supplementary Fig. S8A , white arrows) and circular within the cells ( Supplementary Fig. S8A , blue arrow). Moreover, relatively large dot-like signals occasionally emerged during the observations ( Supplementary Fig. S8A , yellow arrow). Because Chl autofluorescence from amyloplasts was detected outside the peripheral GFP signal ( Supplementary Fig. S8B , white arrow), GFP–SGR6 did not seem to exist on the plasma membrane. Moreover, it was difficult to determine whether GFP–SGR6 existed near the amyloplasts owing to Chl autofluorescence from amyloplasts. We crossed  SGR6pro:GFP-SGR6/sgr6-1  with several transgenic plants as follows:  SCRpro:mRFP-er  [the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) localization signal sequence]/WT (a marker line for the ER),  SCRpro:ARA6-mRFP /WT (a marker line for the ARA6-positive endosome),  SCRpro: mRFP-ARA7 /WT (a marker line for the ARA7-positive endosome) and  VAM3pro:mRFP-VAM3 / vam3-1  (a marker line for the vacuole) ( Uemura et al. 2010 ) and generated plants that harbored homozygous forms of the transgenes and the  sgr6-1  mutation. We first observed the endodermal cells of a plant derived from a cross between  SGR6pro:GFP-SGR6/sgr6-1 
Supplementary Fig. S9  is 30 s after the cell in  Fig. 4 B. A large dot-like SGR6 GFP signal was observed in the cell and merged with the VAM3 mRFP signal ( Supplementary Fig. S9 ). THe ER exists adjacent to the VM in mature plant cells ( Hanton and Brandizzi 2006 ). We next observed the endodermal cells of plants derived from a cross between  SGR6pro:GFP-SGR6/sgr6-1  and  SCRpro:mRFP-er /WT. Peripheral and circular GFP signals were observed in the endodermal cells; however, the signals did not merge with the mRFP signal from the ER ( Supplementary Fig. S10 ). The VAM3/SYP22 signal that merged with that of SGR6 exists not only with the VM but also with the PVC ( Sanderfoot et al. 1999 ). To examine whether the GFP–SGR6 dot-like signal was
amyloplast sedimentation ( Niihama et al. 2005 ,  Niihama et al. 2009 ,  Hashiguchi et al. 2010 ). We next observed the endodermis of a transgenic plant that expresses GFP–tonoplast intrinsic protein-γ (γ-TIP), a marker for lytic vacuoles, under control of the  SCR  promoter ( Saito et al. 2005 ). A longitudinally cut stem segment was allowed to stand for 15 min on a vertical stage, and
sensitive to the sample preparation process including stem cutting.  Fig. 5 Dynamic vacuolar membrane (VM) structures and amyloplast dynamics in endodermal cells of cut stems. The endodermal cells of the transgenic plant expressing green fluorescent protein–tonoplast intrinsic protein-γ (GFP–γ-TIP), a lytic vacuole marker, under control of the  SCARECROW  ( SCR ) promoter, were observed using a vertical microscope. Green, GFP fluorescence; red, autofluorescence of Chl from plastids. (A) Endodermal cells that show or do not show invaginated VM structures and amyloplast dynamics at a time point within 5–10 min
maintenance of invaginated VM structures and indirectly modulates amyloplast dynamics in endodermal cells.  Fig. 6 Four-dimensional imaging of vacuolar membrane (VM) structures in endodermal cells. The endodermal cells of the transgenic plant expressing green fluorescent protein–tonoplast intrinsic protein-γ (GFP–γ-TIP), a lytic vacuole marker, under control of the  SCR  promoter, were observed using a spinning disk confocal microscopy. (A) Wild-type cell. Confocal images taken at 20 s intervals within 10–20 min after cutting the stem are aligned.
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen).  SGR6  cDNA was amplified by PCR (primer set: cSGR6_F, cSGR6_R) using the synthesized cDNAs as templates and then cloned into the  Xba I– Sma I site in the pHSG399 multicloning site.  GFP  was fused at the N-terminus of SGR6 cDNA on pHSG399. The resulting  GFP-SGR6  fragment was cut and inserted into the  Sal I– Sma I site downstream of the putative  At2g36810  promoter or the  SCR  promoter that was already subcloned into  Hin dIII in the multicloning
equipped with an oil-immersion objective (PlanApo N 60×/1.42NA, Olympus). Confocal images were taken at approximately 4 s intervals for 2 min and converted into a 32× movie. CLSM images were obtained (FV1000; Olympus) for subcellular localization analysis of SGR6. GFP and mRFP fluorescence was detected with 497–517 and 592–622 nm spectral settings, respectively, following 488 or 543 nm excitation. We used an all-in-one type confocal laser scanning microscope system, which includes a spinning disk-type scanner and Electron Multiplying
