ABSTRACT:
we report a study on the cellular localization and the enzyme activity of an  Arabidopsis  CslA family member, AtCslA2. We show that the fluorescent protein fusion AtCslA2-GFP, transiently expressed in tobacco leaf protoplasts, is synthesized in the ER and it accumulates in the Golgi stacks. The chimera is inserted in the Golgi membrane and is functional since membrane preparations obtained by transformed protoplasts carry out the  in vitro  synthesis of a  14 C-mannan starting
RESULTS:
of the punctate structures (Figures  1(b)  and  1(c) ) and, during time, the redistribution of the fluorescence into the tubular and cortical network ( Figure 1(d) ). This suggested that AtCslA2-GFP may be localized in the Golgi stacks. To further demonstrate this localization, the chimera was coexpressed with ST52-mRFP, a  trans -Golgi stack marker [ 20 ,  29 ]. A complete colocalization of the green and red fluorescence was observed (Figures  1(e) – 1(g) ), evidencing that both ST52-mRFP and AtCslA2 accumulated in the Golgi stacks. The final localization of the chimera in the Golgi stacks was also confirmed by treating AtCslA2-GFP transiently transformed protoplasts with the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide. After 2 h of treatment, the punctate structures were the only fluorescent compartments evidenced ( Figure 1(h) ). Altogether these data demonstrate that GFP-tagged AtCslA2 protein is cotranslationally inserted into ER to further reach the Golgi apparatus, which represents its stable localization. 3.2. AtCslA2-GFP Is Integrated in the Golgi Membranes The presence of the chimera in the intracellular protein fraction, including the endomembrane system, was confirmed by immunoblot analyses of protein extracted from the transformed protoplasts using an anti-GFP antibody ( Figure 2(a)
extraction and phase separation of the total AtCslA2 transformed protoplast proteins, the major percentage of the chimera was detected in the detergent phase confirming that it was an integral membrane protein ( Figure 2(b) ). 3.3. Biochemical Characterization of AtCslA2-GFP Expressed in Tobacco Leaf Protoplasts   AtCslA2  is a member of  Arabidopsis CslA  gene family encoding for a putative mannan synthase. To determine whether AtCslA2-GFP was functional in tobacco protoplasts, we tested its enzymatic activity isolating the total membrane fraction from the homogenates of wild-type and AtCslA2-GFP transiently transformed protoplasts and incubating them in the presence of GDP- d -[U- 14 C]mannose as substrate. After 30 min, the radioactivity incorporated in the 70% ethanol precipitated product was measured and the enzymatic activity associated with the membranes was
 β -mannosyl transferase activity in tobacco leaf protoplasts and an appreciable, highly statistically significant ( P  = 0.004) increase of this activity, approximately 38%, in AtCslA2-GFP transformed protoplasts indicating that the inserted chimera functions properly in the Golgi membranes. Based on TM domain prediction (TMHMM server), AtCslA2 active site should face the Golgi lumen. To ascertain this hypothesis, mannan synthase activity was tested in the presence of proteinase K, with or without Triton X-100. The enzymatic activity was drastically reduced ( P  < 0.001 with respect to untreated AtCslA2-GFP transformed protoplasts) when membranes were permeabilized with detergent during proteinase K treatment ( Table 1 ). The results indicate that the catalytic site of AtCslA2 faces the lumen of the Golgi stacks, according to bioinformatic predictions. A hypothetical model
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
State University). The cDNA sequence was amplified with primers Man01 (5′-ggagcccggatccatggacggtg-3′) and Man02 (5′-caactgctagctcgggacataagtccc-3′) to introduce, respectively,  Bam HI and  Nhe I restriction sites. The  Bam HI/ Nhe I fragment was introduced into a GFP-containing vector PGIP2-GFP [ 20 ] to construct AtCslA2-GFP. The construct was confirmed by sequencing (PRIMM srl, Milan, Italy). 2.2. Protoplast Preparation, Transformation, and Drug Treatments Tobacco protoplasts were prepared from the leaves of  Nicotiana tabacum  cv SR1 plants and transiently transformed as described by [ 21 ]. Equivalent quantities (20  μ g) of plasmids were used for the colocalization experiments. The fluorescent pattern of over 1200 cells was analysed. Brefeldin A (10  μ g/mL; Sigma-Aldrich) or
laser line was used, and the emission was recorded with 505–530 nm filter set; RFP was detected with a 560–615 nm filter set after He–Ne laser excitation at 543 nm, while chlorophyll epifluorescence was detected with the filter set for tetramethylrhodamine isothiocyanate (TRITC; >650 nm) and eliminated. The power of each laser line, the gain, and the
fraction was visualized after ECL (ECL western blotting analysis system, GE Healthcare) chemodetection. Cell lysis and phase separation were carried out as described by [ 24 ] modified by [ 20 ]. To test AtCslA2 solubility in Triton X-114, AtCslA2-GFP transformed protoplasts were freeze-thawed twice in 10 mM Tris-buffer pH 7.5 containing 0.15 M NaCl and 1 mM EDTA and centrifuged at 800 ×g for 10 min. The 800 ×g supernatant was adjusted to 1.5 mL with Tris-buffer (pH 7.5) and Triton X-114 was added into
pyridine 5% (v/v) acetic acid buffer pH 3.5, 5 kV for 30–45 min [ 26 ]. Detection of the markers and radioactive counting procedure were performed as described by [ 25 ]. 2.8. Statistical Analyses The biochemical data from wild-type and AtCslA2-GFP transformed tobacco leaf protoplasts were compared using Student's  t -test and values were expressed as means ± standard deviation of at least three independent replicated experiments ( n  = 3). SigmaStat version 3.11 software (Systat Software Inc.)
