ABSTRACT:
Programmed cell death (PCD) is a genetically determined process in all multicellular organisms. Plant PCD is effected by a unique group of papain-type cysteine endopeptidases (CysEP) with a C-terminal KDEL endoplasmic reticulum (ER) retention signal (KDEL CysEP). KDEL CysEPs can be stored as pro-enzymes in ER-derived endomembrane compartments and are released as mature CysEPs in the final stages of organelle disintegration. KDEL CysEPs accept a wide variety of amino acids at the active site, including the glycosylated hydroxyprolines of the extensins that form the basic
RESULTS:
CEP1 ::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL).  atcep1 , SAIL_158_B06; fct,  atcep1  plants transformed with the functional reporter pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL; n-fct,  atcep1  plants transformed with the non-functional reporter pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL. Cells attacked by  erysiphe cruciferarum  express EGFP-AtCEP1 in the endoplasmic reticulum and accumulate it around haustoria To investigate the subcellular localization of AtCEP1  in vivo , we analyzed complemented mutant plants ( atcep1  knock out plants transformed with the functional reporter P CEP1 ::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL) during interaction with  E. cruciferarum  (12 dpi) by CLSM (Figure  6 ). Without inoculation, we never detected the functional EGFP fusion of AtCEP1. 12 dpi, the EGFP-AtCEP1 fusion protein displayed localization within the entire endoplasmatic reticulum of cells that were successfully penetrated by the fungus and accumulated especially around established haustoria (Figures  6A – C ). A strong labeling around haustoria was also observed at the haustorial plane, where the network of the endoplasmic reticulum seemed to be very dense (Figures  6D – F ). Figure 6 Cells attacked by  Erysiphe cruciferarum  express EGFP-AtCEP1 in the endoplasmic reticulum and accumulate it around haustoria . Localization of EGFP tagged AtCEP1 in  Erysiphe cruciferarum  attacked cells of  Arabidopsis  WT cells ( atcep1  mutant plants transformed with the functional reporter P CEP1 ::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL) upon fungal
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Materials and methods Generation of reporter lines expressing pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL and pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL, respectively, under control of the endogenous AtCEP1 promoter in the  atcep1  knockout mutant For the cloning strategy of the fusion gene coding for pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL under the control of the endogenous promoter of  AtCEP1  (P CEP1 ::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL) and the primers used see Supplemental Figure  S1 . The sequence approximately 2000 bp upstream of the start Met, that was previously shown to confer tissue specific expression (Helm et al.,  2008 ), was used as the
the coding region for the pre-pro-sequence were amplified from WT (Col0) genomic DNA isolated by cetyl-trimethyl-ammonium bromide (CTAB) extraction (Murray and Thompson,  1980 ). The 3xHA tag was amplified from pNIGEL18 (Geldner et al.,  2009 ) and EGFP was amplified from pEZS-CL (Cutler et al.,  2000 ). The mature AtCEP1 subunit with the 3'UTR was amplified from WT (Col0) genomic DNA. The resulting PCR products were cloned into pGREEN conferring kanamycin resistance (Hellens et al.,  2000 ;  www.ac.uk ). The final plasmid construct was sequenced and transformed into  Agrobacterium tumefaciens  (pGV3101) by electroporation. The construct P CEP1 ::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL as a non-functional reporter protein lacking the mature  AtCEP1  protease subunit was obtained in an analogous manner. It comprised the endogenous AtCEP1 promoter, the 5′UTR and the coding regions for the N-terminal pre-pro-peptide, for the 3xHA tag and EGFP and for the nine C-terminal amino acids of the mature AtCEP1 subunit, including the ER retention signal KDEL (for cloning strategy and primers used see Supplemental Figure  S2 ). The resulting PCR products were cloned into pGREEN (Hellens
transformed into  Agrobacterium tumefaciens  (pGV3101) by electroporation. Flowers from homozygous  atcep1  knock out mutant plants (SAIL_158_B06) were transformed by floral dipping (Clough and Bent,  1998 ) resulting in plants expressing the functional (P CEP1 ::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL) or non-functional (P CEP1 ::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL) EGFP-reporter proteins, respectively. Eight different homozygous transformants for each construct were screened for high expression of the fusion protein by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) and three were chosen for further analysis. Leaf infection with powdery mildew and symptoms rating Arabidopsis thaliana  Col0 plants and the  AtCEP1  T-DNA insertion mutants (SAIL_158_B06 and SALK_013036) as well as  atcep1  knock out plants transformed with the functional reporter (P CEP1 ::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-AtCEP1-KDEL in SAIL_158_B06) and  atcep1  knock out plants transformed with the non-functional reporter (P CEP1 ::pre-pro-3xHA-EGFP-KDEL in SAIL_158_B06) were grown in a growth chamber at 22°C and a 10-h photoperiod with 120 μmol m −2  s −2  light and 65% relative humidity. The  Arabidopsis  compatible powdery mildew fungus  Erysiphe
min/95°C and analysation by SDS-PAGE followed by western blot analysis with anti-HA antibodies (Roche). Confocal laser scanning microscopy CLSM (Fluoview FV 1000, Olympus, Japan) was performed using excitation at 488nm and emission detection between 503 and 550 nm for GFP. Single pictures or stacks of pictures with 0.5 μm increments at higher resolution and 2.5 μm increments at
