ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
calculated ( F ). Means are shown by lines (solid for WT; dotted for  prn1 ) and SEMs are represented by shaded triangles. n = 65. SEM shown. PRN1-GFP Fluorescence is Observed in Cells of the Epidermis, Associated with the Nucleus in 6-d-old Dark-grown Seedlings Subcellular localization of PRN1 was explored by utilizing PRN1-GFP flourescence.  prn1  mutant seedlings were transformed with  PRN1 ::PRN1-GFP (T3), or WT seedlings were transformed with  35S ::PRN1-GFP (T2). Homozygous seedlings were grown under selection in complete darkness for 6 d, then images captured on a spinning disk confocal microscope. Flourescence was visible in some cells of the epidermis of the cotyledon, associated with nuclei (both diffuse and punctate), as well as diffuse within the cell cytoplasm of some cells in  prn1  transformed with  PRN1 ::PRN1-GFP ( Figure 4 ). Flourescence was greater in the transgenic plants overexpressing PRN1 (WT transformed with  35S ::PRN1-GFP) with localization to the nucleus, and diffuse and variable flourescence in the rest of the cell, visible in most of the cells of the epidermis ( Figure 4 ). Areas of interest from  Figure 4  images were
over a series of 5 z-slices of 1 μm thickness ( Figures 5  and  6 ). Enlargement of transformed ( PRN1 ::PRN1-GFP)  prn1  ( Figure 5 ) indicated fluorescence coinciding with DAPI stain throughout the nucleus, both diffuse and punctate. Flourescence was also observed immediately outside of the nucleus, possibly reflecting PRN1 trafficking to the nucleus or surrounding ER; diffuse and some punctate fluorescence was visible elsewhere in the cells shown ( Figure 5 ). Some of the punctate fluorescence could correspond to developing plastids, as there are examples of fluorescence of GFP overlapping with 561 nm, which would be expected to cause etioplasts to fluoresce due to protochlorophyllides. Enlargement of the results for transformed WT ( 35S ::PRN1-GFP) seedling ( Figure 6 ) similarly revealed GFP fluorescence throughout the nucleus, with punctate structures within the nucleus, and fluorescence throughout the epidermal cells, diffuse and punctate. Like  Figure 5 , there is overlapping fluorescence with 561 nm
cotyledons, from seedlings grown 6 d in darkness or grown under 16∶8 ( Figures S4  &  S5 ). GFP-flourescence was largely found in the nuclei, and was diffuse in extranuclear locations. 10.1371/journal.pone.0093371.g004 Figure 4 Subcellular localization of PRN1 in dark-grown seedlings. Constructs and transgenic plants are described in methods. 6-d-old dark-grown  prn1  whole seedlings transformed with  PRN1 ::PRN1-GFP (T3) or WT seedlings transformed with  35S
represent an optical section of 1 μm thickness. The column heading indicates the different seedling lineages. Yellow boxes on the figure indicate areas of interest and show an enlargement. Red arrows indicate DAPI stain in nucleus. White arrows indicate GFP accumulation in 488 nm. Untransformed WT and  prn1  seedlings are also shown on the figure. Scale bars each represent 25 μm. n = 4 biological replicates, with at least 12–20 individual seedlings viewed per replicate;
region of interest in seedling cotyledon epidermis:  prn1  transformed with  PRN1 ::PRN1-GFP. Microscopy and techniques are the same as described for  Figure 4 . Each row shows 5 consecutive z-slices. The red “n” indicates a nucleus (DAPI stained). GFP expression of interest is indicated by white arrows. Scale bar represents 10 μm. 10.1371/journal.pone.0093371.g006 Figure 6 Enlargement and z-slices of region of interest in seedling cotyledon epidermis: WT transformed with  35S ::PRN1-GFP. Microscopy and techniques are the same as described for  Figure 4 . Each row shows 5 consecutive z-slices. The red “n” indicates a nucleus (DAPI stained). GFP expression of interest is indicated by white arrows. There is expression in the rest of the cell, largely diffuse. Scale bar represents 10 μm. PRN1  Promoter Possesses Regulatory Elements of Abiotic and Hormonal Signaling, and
showing that there were indications for light and hormone regulation, specifically ABA, confirmed by exogenous-ABA regulation of the transcript and complementation  [21] . The eFP browser  [40]  indicates that PRN1 is predicted to localize to the nucleus based on published experimental data and the WOLFPSORT prediction method, and possibly to the chloroplasts and cytosol, with a low-to-medium confidence value. In addition, PRN1 expression is shown to increase in response to ABA (guard cells), ACC, and abiotic signals, although conditions of seedling growth (age, sucrose
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
an Agilent 6410 Triple Quad mass spectrometer (Agilent Technologies; Santa Clara, CA) coupled with an Agilent HPLC 1200 series chromatographic system. The system was operated using Agilent Mass-Hunter workstation software. Separation was achieved on a column HPLC chip (Agilent G4240, C18, 300A°, 43 mm chip) using water and methanol as the mobile phase. The mobile phase was pumped at a 500 nL/min flow rate. The initial mobile
above (Millipore, Billerica, MA)  [29] . Quercetinase Assay For a final volume of 500 μL, freshly  in vitro -translated PRN1 extract (16 μg) was incubated with a final concentration of 10 μM quercetin (diluted from 5.0 mM DMSO stock immediately before assay) in a total reaction volume including 1 μL of 0.5× MS medium, and utilizing the buffer and
into the Invitrogen pENTR/D-TOPO vector. LR reactions (Invitrogen) were then performed with verified entry clones to obtain expression clones. The pGreen  [32]  binary vector derivative containing a NOS terminator with a C-terminal GFP fusion and spectinomycin and BASTA resistance genes  [33]  was used for the native promoter construct ( PRN1 ::PRN1-GFP). The pEarleyGate 103  [34]  vector containing an OCS terminator with a  35S  promoter, a C-terminal GFP-His fusion and kanamycin and BASTA resistance genes was used for the overexpression construct ( 35S ::PRN1-GFP). All constructs were confirmed via restriction enzyme digest, PCR, and sequencing. Verified expression clones were transformed in  prn1  mutant or WT backgrounds via floral dip  [35] . Transformed seeds/seedlings were grown under BASTA selection. Homozygous transformed seedlings were selected in the third generation (T3) for the native promoter construct ( PRN1 ::PRN1-GFP) in  prn1  background, and at T2 for the overexpression construct ( 35S ::PRN1-GFP) in WT background. Visualization of Transgene Expression Transgenic and untransformed 6-d-old dark-grown seedlings were fixed using paraformaldyhyde (2.5%), then were mounted in Prolong Gold antifade reagent with DAPI (Life Technologies: Grand Island, NY) on glass slides. Seedlings were harvested
detected sequentially using narrow band pass filters, basically eliminating any potential for crosstalk. DAPI was stimulated using a 405 nm diode laser (200 ms exposure, laser intensity 64%), and detected with Semrock Brightline, Single Band Fluorescence Filter, 447 Centre; GFP was stimulated with a 488 nm diode laser (400 ms exposure, laser intensity
Gold antifade reagent with DAPI stain was set on top of the cells for 5 min, then cover slides were mounted for analysis via spinning disk confocal microscopy.  prn1  mutants or  prn1 -transformed with  PRN1 ::PRN1-GFP or WT-transformed with  35S ::PRN1-GFP were viewed on spinning disk confocal after DAPI-stain was applied. 10–15 cotyledons were viewed per replicate of 3 independent replicates, utilizing the same lasers and imaging conditions described above for visualization of transgene expression. Statistics Data shown in figures
into Prism v. 5.0 (GraphPad Software, Inc., GraphPad.com), where mean and SD or SEM are shown for most graphic depictions. For enzymatic activity curves SD is shown on the figures. For bar graphs, quercetin quantification (ng/g liq nitrogen ground mass) is shown as ng/g. The WT and  prn1  samples where planted, harvested and extracted as pairs where they were compared, respectively. A two-tailed T test was used with significance set at p<.05. SD are shown on the
