ABSTRACT:
spectrometry to characterize early molecular events induced by short blue light exposures in etiolated  Arabidopsis  seedlings. We observed the phosphorylation of phototropin 1 (phot1) and accumulation of weak chloroplast movement under blue light 1 (WEB1) in the membrane fraction after blue light irradiation. Over 50 spots could be observed for the two rows of phot1 spots in the 2-DE gels, and eight novel phosphorylated Ser/Thr sites were identified in the N-terminus and Hinge 1 regions of phot1
RESULTS:
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Materials and Methods Plant Materials and Growth Conditions In this study,  A. thaliana  Columbia (Col-0) seedlings and transgenic  Arabidopsis  expressing phot1–GFP in a  phot1–5  background 17  were used. For etiolated seedlings, seeds were surface-sterilized and sown on MS plates (half-strength MS medium, 18  0.8% agar, 43.8 mM sucrose, pH 5.7), cold-treated (2 days at 4 °C) in the dark, exposed
mM PMSF) and then centrifuged at 10 000 g  for 20 min to remove cell debris. The resulting supernatant was centrifuged at 200 000 g  for 60 min to pellet the microsomal fraction. The microsomal pellet was dissolved in SDS extraction
to 40% over 30 min and then to 50% in 3 min. The liquid chromatography eluate was coupled to a microionspray source attached to the mass spectrometer. The following mass spectrometers were used for the analysis of the samples: QSTAR Pulsar (Applied Biosystems/MDS Sciex, South San Francisco, CA, USA), QSTAR Elite (Applied Biosystems), LTQ-FT ICR (Thermo Scientific, San Jose, CA, USA), and LTQ Orbitrap XL (Thermo Scientific). Peptides were analyzed in positive ion mode and in information-dependent acquisition mode to switch automatically between MS and MS/MS acquisition. For experiments using the QSTAR Pulsar and QSTAR Elite, MS spectra were acquired for 1 s in the  m / z  range between 310 and 1400. MS acquisitions were followed by 3 s collision-induced dissociation (CID) experiments in information-dependent acquisition mode. For each MS spectrum,
of the precursor ion. A dynamic exclusion window was applied that prevented the same  m / z  from being selected for 60 s after its acquisition. For experiments using the LTQ Orbitrap XL and LTQ FT ICR, MS spectra were acquired in profile mode using the Orbitrap or ICR analyzers in the  m / z  range between 310 and 1600. For each MS spectrum, the six most intense multiply charged ions over a
the same  m / z  from being selected for 60 s after its acquisition. Peak lists from files acquired by the QSTAR instruments were generated using Mascot Distiller version 2.1.0.0 (Matrix Science, Boston, MA, USA). Parameters for MS processing were set as follows: peak half-width, 0.02; data points per dalton, 100. Parameters for MS/MS data were set as follows: peak half-width, 0.02; data points per dalton, 100. In the case of data acquired in the LTQ Orbitrap XL and LTQ FT Thermo Scientific instruments, peak lists were generated using PAVA in-house software, 23
N terminus of the protein, oxidation of methionine, formation of pyro-Glu from N-terminal glutamine, phosphorylation of serine, threonine, or tyrosine, and ubiquitination of lysine were all allowed as variable modifications. In searches of LTQ-Orbitrap XL or LTQ-FT data, the mass tolerance was 30 ppm for precursor and 0.8 Da for fragment ions. For QSTAR data, a precursor mass tolerance of 100 ppm and a fragment mass error tolerance of 0.2 Da were allowed for the data search. The peak lists were searched against a subset of the UniProtKB database as of December 15,
fragmentation obtained using MS Product (ProteinProspector). Phosphatase Treatment Phosphatase treatment was performed as described elsewhere. 25 , 26  In brief, 50 μL of microsomal protein (approximately 250 μg) in DIGE buffer was mixed with 5 μL of 10% SDS. Then, 345 μL
10 min, solubilized proteins were incubated with an anti-GFP antibody bound to protein A Sepharose beads (GE Healthcare) for 1 h. The beads were washed four times with the extraction buffer containing 0.1% Triton X-100 and eluted with 2% SDS. Microsomal proteins and the immunoprecipitated proteins were resolved
