ABSTRACT:
SEOR2:GFP. PP2-A1:GFP surrounded two types of bodies, one of which was identified as mitochondria. This location suggested that it was embedded within the sieve element clamps, specific structures that may fix the organelles to each another or to the plasma membrane in the sieve tubes. GFP:RTM1 was associated with a class of larger bodies, potentially corresponding to plastids. PP2-A1:GFP was soluble in the cytosol of immature sieve elements. The changes in its subcellular localization during differentiation provide an  in vivo  blueprint for monitoring this process. The subcellular features obtained with these companion cell and sieve element
RESULTS:
We used the phloem symplasmic tracer 5,6 carboxyfluorescein-diacetate (CFDA) to investigate both phloem transport and sieve element integrity [ 22 ]. CFDA is a membrane-permeant dye that is cleaved by cellular esterase to release carboxyfluorescein (CF), a non membrane-permeant fluorescent form of the dye. Fluorescence rapidly progressed from the treated area into the veins ( Fig. 1 A-B ,  S1
in veins of the various orders (i.e. main, secondary and minor;  Fig. 2 B ). Longitudinal observations of the phloem cells were carried out. In  pSUC2 : PP2-A1 : GFP  plants, fluorescence was observed in the cytosol and nucleus of companion cells, with no fluorescence in the sieve elements or phloem parenchyma cells (PPCs) ( Fig. 2 D,E ). This subcellular distribution was identical to that in undetached
 pSUC2 : GFP  plants. Images were obtained by CLSM and fluorescence is shown in false colors. GFP or CFP signals are shown in green, and chlorophyll autofluorescence is shown in red. GFP-tagged PP2-A1 is found in the cytosol and nucleus of the companion cells. (a) Constructs for the imaging of fluorescence-tagged PP2-A1 and PP2-A2. (b) Observation, in a treated leaf area, of soluble GFP produced under the control of the  SUC2  promoter, in a  pSUC2 :
is found only in the companion cells. This observation was made on a cross between the  pSUC2 : PP2-A1 : GFP  (in green) and  p35S : H2B : RFP  lines (in color red), so the nucleus is shown in yellow in the overlay, due to H2B:RFP and PP2-A1:GFP fluorescence. (f) Localization of GFP:PP2-A1 fluorescence in a minor vein from a  pSUC2 : GFP : PP2-A1  plant. (g) Localization of  PP2-A1 : CFP  fluorescence (shown in green) in a minor vein from a  pSUC2 : PP2-A1 : CFP  plant. Typical distribution of plastids in the companion cells is observed. In the companion cells, the autofluorescent chloroplasts were aligned in a single file, whereas, in phloem parenchyma cells, the chloroplasts were located at the cell
parenchyma cell; se: sieve element. n: nucleus. Scale bar = b) 50 μm; (c)–(g) 10 μm. 10.1371/journal.pone.0118122.t001 Table 1 Phloem markers available for the identification of phloem cells. Constructs Cell type Description (MW app  of the GFP fusion) AGI number (name of the protein) pSUC2 : PP2-A1 : GFP   pSUC2 : PP2-A1 : CFP   pSUC2 : GFP : PP2-A1 Companion cell Nucleus and cytosol (55 kDa) At4g19840 (PP2 phloem lectin) pSUC2 : PP2-A2 : GFP Companion cells Nucleus and cytosol (45 kDa) At4g19850 (PP2 phloem lectin) pSEOR2 : PP2-A1 : GFP Sieve element Around mitochondria and SE bodies (≈ 1 μm) (55 kDa) At4g19840 (PP2 phloem lectin) pSEOR1 : SEOR1 : GFP Sieve element P-proteins (112 kDa) At3g01680 (P-protein)
Bodies at the periphery of the SE (68 kDa) At5g04890 (RESTRICTED TEV MOVEMENT 2; sHSP) Moreover, no fluorescence was observed in the sieve elements with GFP and PP2 fusions, because of rapid translocation towards sink organs, dilution in the cytosol of the sieve element, or, for PP2 fusions, an inability of the fluorescent proteins to pass through pore-plasmodesmata units (PPUs). Cytological criteria for phloem cell identification In  pSUC2 : PP2-A1 : GFP and pSUC2 : PP2-A1 : CFP
PP2-A1 : CFP  fusion ( Fig. 3 A ). An example of this approach is provided by the analysis of a cross with the  p35S : GFP : LTI6b  line [ 25 ], which carries a plasma membrane marker. Fluorescence was readily observed at the plasma membrane (PM) in companion cells ( Fig. 3 B ). In  p35S : H2B : RFP  plants expressing the fluorescent histone 2B (H2B:RFP) nuclear marker, the nuclei of companion cells appeared dense and compacted ( Fig. 3 C ). Similarly, large numbers of mitochondria ( Fig. 3 E ;  S2 Fig. , B;  S2 Movie ) could be seen in
There were also numerous vacuoles ( Fig. 3 F ), with one vacuole often in contact with the nucleus, in addition to chloroplasts ( Fig. 3 A ). These results were obtained with plants expressing an endoplasmic reticulum marker (ER:YFP), the cytochrome  c  oxidase IV mitochondrial marker (COX4:YFP), the vacuolar aquaporin membrane marker (γTIP:YFP) and the RuBisCO marker (RbcS:YFP), respectively. We also observed the organization of the cytoskeleton in plants expressing an actin filament marker (fABD2:GFP) or a cortical microtubule marker (GFP:MBD) ( Fig. 3 G-H ). The organization of the actin filaments was difficult to
cells are the largest cells and are located on the edge of the vasculature. Sieve elements lack chloroplasts. Companion cells display typical chloroplast alignments. (c) Observation of nuclei in the companion cells of a  pSUC2 : PP2-A1 : CFP  x  p35S : H2B : RFP  plant. Companion cells have square-like nuclei. (d) Observation of the endoplasmic reticulum in the companion cells of a  pSUC2 : PP2-A1 : CFP  x  p35S : ER : YFP  plant. In companion cells, the ER is found principally next to the plasma membrane and around the nucleus. On this image, the ER can also be seen in a sieve element aligned between two arrays of companion cells. (e) Observation of mitochondria in the companion cells of a  pSUC2 : PP2-A1 : CFP  x  p35S : COX4 : GFP  plant. On this image, large numbers of mitochondria can be seen in the companion cells. (f) Observation of vacuoles in the companion cells of a  pSUC2 : PP2-A1 : CFP x p35S : yTIP : YFP  plant. The image shows several vacuoles per companion cell. (g) Observation of actin network in the companion cells of a  pSUC2 : PP2-A1 : CFP  x  p35S : FABD2 : GFP  plant. Thick actin bundles can be seen whereas thin actin filaments are barely detectable. (h) Observation of cortical microtubules in bent companion cells at a vein junction in a  pSUC2 : PP2-A1 : CFP  x  p35S : GFP : MBD  plant. Stars indicate the vacuoles. Scale bar = 5 μm. Subcellular organization of the sieve elements The subcellular organization of sieve elements was also examined. The  GFP
membrane in the sieve elements (1–3 μm diameter in minor veins and 3–4 μm in larger veins), with brighter fluorescence was observed in the vicinity of the sieve plates ( Fig. 3 B ). Plants expressing the ER marker (ER:YFP) displayed a succession of fine fluorescent stacks at lateral positions in sieve elements ( Fig. 4 A ). For the mitochondrial marker (COX4:YFP), we observed faint fluorescence colocalized with the vital dye MitoTracker Red ( Fig. 4 B,C ), indicating this marker is active in sieve elements. Other fluorescent GFP markers were more difficult to visualize. For the nuclear marker (H2B:RFP) or the tonoplast marker (γTIP:YFP), the breakdown of the nucleus and tonoplast during differentiation of the sieve elements accounted for the absence of fluorescence. For the actin marker (fABD2:GFP), the microtubule marker (GFP:MBD) and the chloroplast marker (RbcS:YFP), no fluorescence signal was detected in the sieve elements. Sieve element plastids are not photosynthetic, and RuBisCO is probably degraded during sieve element differentiation. The actin cytoskeleton has been identified in sieve elements [ 14 ,  26 ],
of subcellular compartments and known protein bodies in sieve elements. Fluorescent proteins observed in leaves from plants carrying GFP expressed in different subcellular compartments. Images were obtained by CLSM. Fluorescence is shown in false color. (a) Observation of the endoplasmic reticulum in the companion cells and the sieve elements of a  p35S : ER : YFP  x  pSUC2 : PP2-A1 : GFP  plant (same section as in  Fig. 3D ). YFP fluorescence is shown in yellow and GFP is shown in blue. (b) Observation of mitochondria with MitoTracker fluorescent dye, presented in false colors (green). Plastid autofluorescence is shown in red. Mitochondria are found in both the companion cells and sieve elements. (c) Observation of mitochondria with MitoTracker fluorescent dye, presented in false colors (blue) in the phloem of  p35S : COX4 : GFP  plant (in yellow). Plastid autofluorescence is shown in red. Co-labeling of mitochondria with MitoTracker and COX4:GFP, in both the companion cells and sieve elements, is shown in green. Arrows indicate mitochondria in the sieve elements.(d), (e) and (f) Observation of the P-proteins in the sieve elements of a  pSEOR2 : SEOR2 : GFP  plant. In (d) and (e), GFP fluorescence is shown in green, plastid autofluorescence in red. In these images, the P-proteins form a typical plug (arrow) next to the sieve plate (in (c)), and discrete filaments in
not colocalized with mitochondria ( Fig. 5 B ). Their dimensions were of a similar range to that of sieve element plastids [ 14 ,  28 ,  29 ]. By contrast in  pRTM2 : RTM2 : GFP  plants, a reticulate organization lining the plasma membrane and surrounding bodies smaller than mitochondria was observed in the sieve elements ( Fig. 5 C,D ). The nature of these bodies remains unknown, but structures of a
of discrete bodies in a  pRTM1 : GFP : RTM1  plant. The bodies in the sieve elements are up to 1 μm in diameter. In (h) colocalization of GFP:RTM1 with MitoTracker. GFP fluorescence is shown in green, plastid autofluorescence in red, and MitoTracker in blue. (c) and (d) Observation of fluorescence in a  pRTM2 : RTM2 : GFP  plant. The signal is mostly localized at the vicinity of the plasma membrane, within the sieve element. It is also observed around spherical bodies (*) located next to the plasma membrane. In (d) colocalization of RTM2:GFP with MitoTracker. GFP fluorescence is shown in green, plastid autofluorescence in red, and MitoTracker in blue. (e)–(i) Observation of PP2-A1:GFP in a  pSEOR2 : PP2-A1 : GFP  plant. PP2-A1 fluorescence indicates the presence of PP2-A1 in discrete spots located at the borders of the cell and
green and MitoTracker fluorescence is shown in red. In (i) colocalization of PP2-A1:GFP with mitochondria. GFP fluorescence is shown in green, chloroplast autofluorescence in red and MitoTracker fluorescence is shown in blue. Arrows indicate mitochondria surrounded by PP2-A1:GFP. mi: mitochondrion. pl: chloroplast. sp: sieve plate. lpb: large protein body. spb: small protein body. Scale bar = 5 μm. 10.1371/journal.pone.0118122.g006 Fig 6 Imaging of phloem markers in all orders of veins. Fluorescent proteins observed in leaves from plants
GFP or CFP fused to different proteins, either in the companion cells, or in the sieve elements. Images were obtained by CLSM and luorescence is shown in false color, with GFP shown in green, CFP shown in blue and plastid autofluorescence shown in red. Left panel: main vein. Middle panel: secondary vein. Right panel: minor vein. (a) Observation of  pSUC2 : PP2-A1 : GFP  plant. (b) Observation of  pSUC2 : PP2-A1 : CFP  plant. (c)
GFP fluorescence ( Fig. 5 H,I ), demonstrating that the class of PP2-A1-GFP-labeled bodies with a small diameter (0.52 μm) corresponded to sieve element mitochondria. Transmission electron micrographs of sieve elements confirmed that the mitochondria were aligned along the plasma membranes, with an apparent diameter of 0.458 ± 0.026 μm ( n  = 12) ( S6 Fig. , H-J). The larger bodies labeled by PP2-A1:GFP (mean diameter of 0.96 μm) did not colocalize with MitoTracker Red. Distribution of PP2-A1:GFP
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
France). The transgenic lines expressing subcellular markers are described in  S2 Table . Crosses were carried out between homozygous plants. Expression vectors The binary vectors encoding translational fluorescent fusion proteins ( S1 Table ) were constructed with the GATEWAY system (Invitrogen, Life Technologies, Saint-Aubin, France). The promoter regions of  AtSUC2  (1400 bp) and  AtSEOR2  (1000 bp) were amplified from genomic DNA extracted from
μl of 5,6 carboxyfluorescein diacetate (CFDA)–mixed isomers (60 μg ml -1 ) (Invitrogen) to the exposed area. The treated leaves were observed immediately, under a Nikon SMZ-1500 binocular microscope equipped with a high-pressure mercury lamp (C-SHG1, Nikon) and a GFP filter, and the loading of the fluorescent dye was monitored by video recordings every 1.5 s, for 3 minutes. The dye progressed basipetally in the minor veins and then in higher order veins, over at
images were obtained with either a Leica TCS-SP2-AOBS spectral confocal laser scanning microscope or a Leica SP5II-AOBS-Tandem HyD spectral confocal laser scanning microscope, both of which were equipped with a Leica HCX PL APO x 63 water immersion objective. CFP was excited with a 405 nm diode laser; GFP and chloroplasts were excited with the 488
