ABSTRACT:
Background Protein palmitoylation, which is critical for membrane association and subcellular targeting of many signaling proteins, is catalyzed mainly by protein S-acyl transferases (PATs). Only a few plant proteins have been experimentally verified to be subject to palmitoylation, such as ROP GTPases, calcineurin B like proteins (CBLs),
of consensus motifs for palmitoylation, progress on the roles of protein palmitoylation in plants has been slow. Results We combined pharmacological and genetic approaches to examine the role of protein palmitoylation in root hair growth. Multiple PATs from different endomembrane compartments may participate in root hair growth, among which the Golgi-localized PAT24/TIP GROWTH DEFECTIVE1 (TIP1) plays a major role while the tonoplast-localized PAT10 plays a secondary role in root hair growth. A specific inhibitor for protein palmitoylation, 2-bromopalmitate (2-BP), compromised root hair elongation and polarity. Using various probes specific for cellular processes, we demonstrated that 2-BP impaired the dynamic polymerization of actin microfilaments (MF), the asymmetric plasma membrane (PM) localization of phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate (PIP 2 ), the dynamic distribution of RabA4b-positive post-Golgi secretion, and endocytic trafficking in root hairs. Conclusions By combining pharmacological and genetic approaches and using root hairs as a model, we show that protein palmitoylation, regulated by protein S-acyl transferases at different endomembrane compartments such as the Golgi and the vacuole, is critical for the polar growth of root hairs in Arabidopsis. Inhibition of protein palmitoylation by 2-BP disturbed key intracellular activities in root hairs. Although some of these effects are likely indirect, the cytological data reported here will contribute
RESULTS:
detected over the time course of the experiments (Figure  1 A,B). As an additional control, we also introduced the same  Pro UBQ10 :CBL2-RFP transgene into  pat10-2  by crosses [ 12 ], in which CBL2 was rendered cytosolic (Figure  1 E,F). As expected, 2-BP treatment resulted in gradual relocalization of CBL2 from the tonoplast to the cytoplasm of root hairs (Figure 
F . 4 DAG seedlings of  Pro   UBQ10 :CBL2-RFP; pat10-2  transgenic plants treated with DMSO for 4–12 hr before imaging. Representative initiating (A, C, E) or elongating (B, D, F) root hairs are shown. V indicates vacuole.  G . Quantification of CBL2-RFP distribution in the tonoplast v.s. the cytoplasm (Tonoplast/Cyt) at different time points after 2-BP treatment. a.u. stands for arbitrary fluorescence units. Bars = 7.5 μm. Root hair growth was impaired by 2-BP We examined the effect
S3).  TIP1 g-GFP fully restored the root hair defects of  tip1-4  (Figure  3 D,E,F), indicating that the GFP fusion did not interfere with its functionality. To verify that the punctate vesicles labeled by TIP1 were of Golgi identity, we applied the lipophilic dye FM4-64 and the fungal toxin Brefeldin A (BFA) to  TIP1 g-GFP; tip1-4  roots. FM4-64 enters cells via endocytic trafficking and sequentially labels  trans -Golgi network/early endosomes (TGN/EE), prevacuolar compartment/multivesicular bodies (PVC/MVB), then finally reaches the tonoplast [ 33 ]. BFA interferes with the activity of Arf GTPases and
TIP1 and PAT10 localize at different endomembrane compartments in root hairs. A - C . Representative initiating root hair  (A) , elongating root hair  (B) , or mature root hair  (C)  of 4 DAG  PAT10g-GFP;pat10-2  transgenic seedlings.  D -
Arabidopsis root hairs, RabA4b-mediated secretory vesicles form an inverted cone-shaped pattern critical for polarized growth [ 26 , 27 , 29 , 30 ]. To determine the effect of 2-BP on RabA4b-positive post-Golgi secretion, we applied either 2-BP or DMSO to 4 DAG seedlings transformed with  Pro 35S :RFP-RabA4b. As reported previously [ 26 , 27 , 29 , 30 ], RFP-RabA4b was dynamically distributed to the apical cytoplasm in the
cell membranes and walls. FM4-64 enters into plant cells through the PM by endocytosis and eventually reaches the tonoplast [ 33 ]. To determine whether 2-BP interfered with endocytic trafficking, we pre-treated 4 DAG seedlings with 10 μM 2-BP or DMSO for
roots with 4 μM FM4-64. In both initiating (Figure  8 A) and elongating root hairs (Figure  8 C) pre-treated with DMSO, FM4-64 was internalized from the PM into the TGN/EE (Additional file  4 : Movie S3). By contrast, no cytosolic vesicles were observed in root hairs pre-treated with 2-BP during the time course of the experiment (Additional file 
treatment caused aggregation of FM4-64-labeled TGN/EE into BFA compartments (Figure  9 B), we reasoned that a BFA washout would allow us to examine the process of vacuolar trafficking from TGN/EE via PVC/MVB to vacuoles. In root hairs treated with DMSO, BFA washout led to the labeling of FM4-64 of the tonoplast (Figure  9 C), indicating undisturbed trafficking from the TGN/EE to vacuoles. However, in the presence of 2-BP, BFA washout resulted in dissipation of FM4-64 signals from the BFA
root hairs for each treatment. Bars = 7.5 μm. To further support the idea that 2-BP inhibited vacuolar trafficking, we applied either 2-BP or DMSO to root hairs expressing YFP-2XFYVE, which binds specifically to PI3P [ 41 ]. Because PI3P goes to vacuoles for degradation through vacuolar trafficking routes from TGN/EE to PVC/MVB, we reasoned that this would serve as a good biosensor for vacuolar trafficking [ 48 ]. Indeed, 2-BP but not DMSO induced the formation of ring-shaped compartments positive for PI3P, to an extent similar to but less substantial than that caused by wortmannin (Additional file  1 : Figure S6), through which PVC/MVBs on their way to vacuoles fuse to
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
 tip1-4. Arabidopsis thaliana  Col-0 ecotype was used as wild type. Arabidopsis plants were grown as described [ 12 ]. For seedlings growing on plates, surface-sterilized Arabidopsis seeds were grown on Murashige and Skoog basal medium with vitamins (MS) (Phytotechlab,
dark cycle at 21°C. Transgenic plants were selected on MS medium supplemented with 30 μg/ml Basta salt (Sigma,  http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/ ). Plasmid construction All vectors were generated using the Gateway™ technology (Invitrogen). Entry vectors for the coding sequence of  CBL2  and the whole genomic sequence of  TIP1  including its native promoter were generated in the pENTRY/SD/D-TOPO (Invitrogen) using the primer pair ZP595/ZP596 for  CBL2  and ZP533/ZP534 for  TIP1 g. The destination vector  Pro UBQ10 :GW-RFP was generated by replacing the  Pro 35S  promoter with  Pro UBQ10  using the primer pair ZP510/ZP511 with the  Spe I/ Hind III double digestion sites from a previously described destination vector [ 55 ].  TIP1g -GFP was generated by an LR reaction using a GW:GFP translation fusion destination vector [ 12 ] and the  TIP 1g entry vector.  Pro E7 :GFP-ROP2 was generated by a LR reaction using the  Pro E7 :GFP-GW destination vector and the entry vector for  ROP2  [ 46 ]. All PCR amplifications used Phusion TM  hot start high-fidelity DNA polymerase with the annealing temperature and extension times recommended by the manufacturer (Finnzyme). All entry
Bioneer Spin miniprep kit were used for PCR product recovery and plasmid DNA extraction, respectively. Primers are listed in (Additional file  1 : Table S1). Quantification of root hair length and width In the presence of 2-BP or DMSO, the region of root growth and root hair expansion was 1–1.5 mm distal from the primary root tip of 4 DAG seedlings and was thus chosen for length and width measurements. Images of that region were taken from individual seedlings
root hair length and width was performed according to previous descriptions [ 46 ] using ImageJ ( http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/ ). Pharmacological treatments Stock solutions of various inhibitors (Sigma) were prepared using DMSO as the solvent at the following concentrations: 50 mM 2-BP, 35 mM BFA, 20 mM CHX and 4 mM FM4-64. Stock solutions were diluted and added to 1/2 MS at designated final concentrations, i.e. 10–50 μM 2-BP, 50 μM BFA, 50 μM CHX, and 4 μM FM4-64. DMSO was similarly diluted for the controls. All experiments were repeated at least three times. Images and movies shown are representative of approximately 18–30 root hairs. Fluorescence labeling, quantification, and microscopy Fluorescent
with the multi-track function (514 nm for YFP and 545 nm for RFP). Fluorescence was detected using a 530- to 580-nm band-pass filter for YFP and a 575- to 650-nm band-pass filter for RFP. Post-acquisition image processing was performed with the LAS AF Lite image processing software (Leica). For quantification of PIP 2-(Cyt/PM) , ROP2 -(Cyt/PM) , and CBL2 -(Tonoplast/Cyt) , regions of interest (ROIs) of same sizes were designated at the PM,
