ABSTRACT:
counteracted by antioxidative systems mainly involving ascorbate and, to some extent, glutathione. The occurrence of the latter and its exact role in the extracellular space are not well documented, however. In  Arabidopsis thaliana , the gamma-glutamyl transferase isoform (GGT1) bound to the cell wall takes part in the so-called gamma-glutamyl cycle for extracellular glutathione degradation and recovery, and may be implicated in redox sensing and balance. In this work, oxidative conditions were imposed with Ultraviolet-B radiation (UV-B) and studied in redox altered  ggt1  mutants. The response of  ggt1  knockout  Arabidopsis  leaves to UV-B radiation was assessed by investigating changes in extracellular glutathione and ascorbate content and their redox state, and in apoplastic protein composition. Our results show that, on UV-B exposure, soluble antioxidants respond
RESULTS:
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
was: KH 2 PO 4  50 mM, KCl 50 mM, and EDTA 2.5 mM, pH 4.5. For the GGT activity and proteomic analyses, the infiltration buffer contained: KH 2 PO 4  50 mM, KCl 0.2 M, and PMSF 1 mM, pH 6.2. The contamination level of the extracts obtained with the infiltration/centrifugation technique was assessed by means
of 50% acetonitrile in water. One μg of each sample was withdrawn to check digestion efficiency using LC-MS/MS analysis, and the remaining peptide solution was dried under vacuum. iTRAQ labeling and peptide fractionation Peptides were labeled with iTRAQ reagents (ABSciex) according to the manufacturer's instructions. They were labeled with the four iTRAQ tags using a Latin panel
by Köcher et al. ( 2009 ). The raw LC-MS/MS files were analyzed using Proteome Discoverer 1.4 (Thermo Fisher Scientific), connected to a Mascot Search Engine server (version 2.2.4, Matrix Science, London, UK). The spectra were searched against a ARATH Uniprot protein database. Enzyme specificity was set to trypsin
peptides with 99% confidence (FDR 1%) were considered as positive identifications. A 5% FDR was adopted in only two cases (as shown in  Table 2  and in Data Sheet  1 , Supplementary Material), in which the MS/MS spectra were manually inspected for confirmation. Data were pre-filtered to exclude MS/MS spectra
