ABSTRACT:
not only in the cytosol but also in the chloroplast. In this study, we identify and characterize the first organellar-localized Nat in eukaryotes. A primary sequence-based search in  Arabidopsis thaliana  revealed seven putatively plastid-localized Nats of which AT2G39000 (AtNAA70) showed the highest conservation of the acetyl-CoA binding pocket. The chloroplastic localization of AtNAA70 was demonstrated by transient expression of AtNAA70:YFP in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts. Homology modeling uncovered a significant conservation of tertiary structural
RESULTS:
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Kit (Fermentas). The AtNAA70 sequence was amplified from cDNA with specific primers containing appropriate restriction endonuclease sites (Supporting Information  Table 1 ) using Phusion High fidelity DNA Polymerase (Finnzymes). The cDNAs encoding for full-length AtNAA70 was cloned in pFF19-EYFP, which allowed expression of AtNAA70 fused with EYFP at the C-terminus. The cDNA encoding for AtNAA70 lacking the predicted transit peptide was cloned in the pETM41 vector to allow expression of His 6 -MBP-AtNAA70 in  E. coli . 2.3 Subcellular localization of AtNAA70 Transformation of isolated protoplasts from rosette leaves of six-week-old  Arabidopsis thaliana  ecotype Col-0 was performed according to [ 28 ] using 10–20 μg of pFF19-AtNAA70:EYFP DNA. Protoplasts expressing AtNAA70:EYFP for two days were placed on a slice in a drop of 20 μl WI solution and imaged using Zeiss confocal microscope LSM510META equipped with lasers for 405-, 488- and 543-nm excitation. Images were documented with 63x lens in multi-tracking mode. YFP fluorescence was excited at 514 nm and emission was recorded with a 560–615 nm band-pass filter. Chlorophyll auto-fluorescence was excited
]. Then, to perform stable isotope labeling protein N-terminal acetylation quantitation (SILProNAQ), the sample was chemically treated to acetylate the free amino groups with d3-acetyl groups [ 31 ]. Rapidly, 25 μmol of N-acetoxy-[ 2 H 3 ]-succinimide in DMSO per mg of protein was added to the alkylated proteins resuspended
2 min for 40 min and solvent was evaporated to dryness before storage at –20°C. 2.7 LC-MS/MS analysis Analysis of the SCX-LC fractions was performed as previously described [ 32 ]. Rapidly, selected samples are loaded on the pre-column (NS-MP-10, Nano-separation,) of the Easy nLC II system (Thermo Scientific) followed by the separation on a C18
modification characterization using the  E. coli  K12 strain reference proteome subset extracted from UniProtKB (version 112) which also included the sequence of the recombinant proteins AtNAA10, AtNAA15 and AtNAA70. Trypsin/P rules were used with parent and fragment mass tolerance defined as 10 ppm and 0.7, respectively. Carbamidomethylcysteine and d3-acetyl on Lys were considered as fix modifications whereas Met-oxidation, protein NTA and d3-NTA were considered as variable modifications. All data were filtered at 1% protein false discovery rate
assignments. MASCOT distiller submissions for protein identification were performed using the MASCOT 2.4 identification tool against the reference proteome for  E. coli  K12 strain extracted from UniProtKB (version 112) using Trypsin/P cleavage rules. The parent and fragment mass tolerance were defined to 10 ppm and 0.7 Da, respectively, with carbamidomethylcysteine and d3-acetyl on Lys as fix modifications. Few variable modifications were used including oxidized Met (Met-Ox) and d0/d3-NTA quantitation method. Based on characterized proteins, MASCOT distiller determined
N-terminus peptides sharing a common starting position. This tool extracts a few parameters including H/L ratio, signal quality coefficient (MASCOT distiller defined parameters: fraction,  E  value, correlation) and peptide related data (peptide start position, MASCOT score, peptide mass error). For each distinct N-terminus position, EnCOUTer aggregates the data passing the filtering criteria defined by the user and especially the signal quality coefficient (Corr > 0.5,  E  value < 0.1, score > 30, std. err. <
