ABSTRACT:
than the wild-type. Back-transformation of the KO line rescued its phenotype, and over-expression (OX) of  bHLH106  in differentiated plants exhibited tolerance to NaCl. Green fluorescent protein (GFP) fused with bHLH106 revealed that it was localized to the nucleus. Prepared bHLH106 protein was subjected to electrophoresis mobility shift assays against E-box sequences ( 5'-CANNTG-3' ). The G-box sequence  5'-CACGTG-3'  had the strongest interaction with bHLH106.  bHLH106 -OX lines were transcriptomically analyzed, and resultant up- and
RESULTS:
on the standard MS medium without ABA. Intracellular Localization of bHLH106 Protein A construct containing bHLH106 fused at its C-terminus to green fluorescent protein (GFP) was transiently bombarded into onion epidermal cells. The fusion protein was located in the nucleus ( Fig 7 ), suggesting that bHLH106 may work as a TF. This intercellular localization is also supported by the typical bHLH structure which
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
into flasks containing liquid MS, and subsequently grown with shaking at 80 rpm for 2 weeks. Cultured roots were then detached from green tissues (stem and leaves) and cut into small pieces (3–6 mm). These were then transferred to CIM (MS supplemented with 0.5 μg/mL 2,4-D and 50 ng/mL kinetin) [ 41 ] and incubated in the growth chamber under the previously described conditions for 5 days. The roots were infected with  Agrobacterium tumefaciens  GV3101 harboring pRi35ADEn4,
calli were transferred to CIM plates supplemented with 150 mM NaCl. After 3 weeks, growing calli were transferred to new plates. Plant seeds were surface-sterilized, and placed in the dark for 7 d. Finally, the seeds were planted on MS medium containing 100 mM
to 3 weeks after the transfer to stress medium.  Arabidopsis  were grown on MS medium supplemented with 2% sucrose for 4 days and then transferred to MS medium containing 100 mM or 125 mM NaCl without sucrose. bHLH106-GFP Construct and Subcellular Localization 35S promoter was taken from pBCH1 [ 47 ] by digestion with  Hin dIII and  Kpn I, and cloned in pBluescript II KS+ to make pBS-35S. The  bHLH106  open reading frame
Kpn I and  Nco I sites underlined) from cDNA prepared from  Arabidopsis  as described below, and cloned at  Sma I and  Kpn I sites in pBS-35S to complete pBS-35S-bHLH, followed by sequencing it. A sGFP fragment was prepared from pblue-sGFP(S65T)-nos3’ SK (sSK) [ 49 ] and cloned it at  Nco I and  Kpn I sites of pBS-35S-bHLH to make pBS-35S-bHLH-sGFP. This plasmid was purified from  E .  coli  cells using Plasmid Midi Kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) and employed for bombardment of onion epithelial cells by Biolistic PDS-1000/He Particle Delivery System (Bio-Rad, Richmond, CA) Whole Genome Expression
were washed and stained using Fluidics Station 450 (Affymetrix) by 49-Format program, and read by Affymetrix GeneChip Scanner 3000 (Affymetrix). Results were analyzed using GeneChip Operating Software (Affymetrix) and with the Partek Genomics Suite 6.6 (St. Louis, MO, USA). EMSA pMAL-c2x (New England BioLabs, Ipswich, MA, USA) was employed to produce MBP-fused bHLH106. The  bHLH106  cDNA was amplified with primers,  5’- GAATTC ATGCAACCAGAGACCTCAGATCAG-3’  (forward,  Eco RI site underlined) and  5’-  GGTACC TACTTACAACATTTGCTTACACT-3’
 Eco RI and  Pst I, and cloned into pMAL-c2x, followed by transformation in  E .  coli  strain Rosetta (Merck Millipore, Billerica, MA, USA). The preparation of MBP-fused protein wad done following its manufacturer’s protocol. EMSA was performed with 2 μg of protein in accordance with the methodology and conditions described by Chinnusamy et al. [ 34 ]. Statistical Analysis of Phenotypes Statistical comparison of degrees of tolerance to salt and other environmental stresses was
