ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
each of the three  AhHMA4  promoters determined an identical expression profile at the protein level ( Fig. 3 ). In all cases, the AhHMA4::GFP protein was expressed in the pericycle in roots. The protein localized in the plasma membrane of cells in a non-polar fashion. Performing a plasmolysis of the root cells confirmed the plasma membrane localization ( Fig. 3I ,  J ). Fig. 3. Localization of AhHMA4::GFP fusion protein in  A. thaliana . GFP fluorescence was imaged by confocal microscopy in roots of 18-day-old seedlings of homozygous  hma2hma4  mutants expressing
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
in long days for 6 weeks.   Agrobacterium tumefaciens -mediated (GV3101, pMP90) stable transformation of  A. halleri  was performed using a tissue-culture based procedure ( Hanikenne  et al. , 2008 ). Generation of the  pAhHMA4-x::HMA4::GFP  construct The  pAhHMA4-x::HMA4::GFP  constructs for transformation of the  hma2hma4  mutant and  A. halleri  were generated as follows: (i) the eGFP gene was amplified using primers 5′-tata gtcgac atggtgagcaagggcgaggag-3′ containing a  Sal I restriction site (italic) and  5′- tc ttaattaa ttacttgtacagctcgtccatgccgagagtgat -3′  containing a  Pac I restriction site (italic). The full-length  AhHMA4  cDNA was
Sal I restriction site (italic) and  5′ -caccccgaaaat ggcgtc acaaaacaaag -3′  containing a  Bsa HI restriction site (italic). The promoter fragment and cDNA were fused by ligation at the  Sal I site. Then the  AhHMA4::GFP  fragment was cloned into the  Bsa HI/ Pac I sites of the pBluescript II KS+ vector carrying the promoter of  AhHMA4  copy 1 ( pAhHMA4-1 ) (2296bp) as described in  Hanikenne  et al.
gctctctatcctcctttgtaagttcacc-3 ′  containing  Sal I (italic) and  Asc I (bold) restriction sites and cloned by replacing the  pAhHMA4-1  into the  Bsa HI/ Asc I sites of the pBluescript II KS+ vector carrying  AhHMA4::GFP . (iii) The  pAhHMA4::AhHMA4::GFP  cassettes were  Asc I/ Pac I-excised from pBluescript II KS+ and cloned into the corresponding sites of the pMDC32 binary vector ( Curtis and Grossniklaus, 2003 ) from which the 35S promoter had been removed using  Apa I and  Hind III. All constructs were verified by sequencing. Fluorescence confocal microscopy The roots of 18-day-old seedlings of three independent complemented  A. thaliana  lines and  A. halleri  lines expressing  pAhHMA4::AhHMA4::GFP  were analysed for each of the three promoters. Images were collected using a SP2 confocal microscope (Leica, Mannheim, Germany) as previously described ( Tillemans  et al. , 2006 ;  Rausin  et al. , 2010 ).
used. The emission light was dispersed and recorded at 500–540nm for GFP and 600–700nm for propidium iodide. Plasmolysis of the root cells was performed by incubating roots in a 4% (w/v) NaCl solution. Tolerance assays Col-0 (wild-type) and  hma2hma4  mutant plants as well as the complemented mutants (four to
