ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
out from the transgenic plants and stained as described above. The stained tissue samples were observed under an EMZ dissecting microscope (Meiji Techno America, CA) or an Olympus BH2 compound light microscope (Olympus America, PA). Generating transgenic lines expressing AtPGL3-GFP fusion proteins and fluorescence microscopy imaging The  AtPGL3  gene and ~1700 bp of its promoter were amplified and subcloned into a pCAMBIA1302 vector using SalI and NcoI restriction sites with primers listed in Table  S1  (pAtPGL3 SalI F + AtPGL3 NcoI R). Using the restriction sites, the cDNA was ligated in the 5′ end of the GFP coding region of pCAMBIA1302. According to the prediction by Uniprot, AtPGL3 cDNA lacking the BURP domain was amplified with primers, pAtPGL3 SalI F and AtPGL3(ΔBURP) R, and ligated into the pCAMBIA1302 vector. The resulting construct was transformed into  Arabidopsis  plants and transformants were selected. The GFP expression in the transgenic plants was confirmed by immunoblot analysis using an antibody against GFP (Cat No. sc-8334, Santa Cruz Biotechnology, CA). GFP fluorescence from 18-day-old seedlings was observed on a stereo microscope equipped with fluorescent illumination (Leica Microsystems, IL) or on an LSM 5 PASCAL confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss Microscopy, Germany). To colocalize AtPGL3-GFP with the cell wall, we stained leaf samples with propidium iodide (100 μg/ml) for 30 s and rinsed with distilled water. The stained cell wall was visualized with a HeNe laser (543 nm excitation) and a longpass detection filter (560 nm). The images of the propidium iodide and GFP channels were electronically merged with Photoshop (Adobe Systems, CA). Preparation of the AtPGL3 overexpressor and complementation lines The  AtPGL3  cDNA was amplified with AtPGL3 XmaI F and AtPGL3 SacI R (Table  S1 ) and the amplified
was cloned into XmaI and SacI restriction sites of a pBI121 binary vector carrying a CaMV 35S promoter. Expression levels of  AtPGL3  in the transformants were compared to those of wild type plants by RT-PCR. The  AtPGL3-GFP  construct was used for the complementation test. The construct was transformed into  tko-1 Arabidopsis  mutants via  Agrobacterium , and transformants were screened. The presence of the complementation construct and expression of the  AtPGL 
Kang ( 2010 ). Immunoblot analysis Protein extraction and immunoblot analyses were performed as previously described in Lee et al. ( 2013 ). Immunoblots were probed with an anti-GFP antibody (Sc9996, Santa Cruz Biotechnology, CA; 1:3000 dilution) and an anti-AtEXPA10 antibody (ABIN678788, Bioss Antibodies, MA; 1:1000 dilution). Polypeptide density measurements used for preparing the histogram of α-expansin/cytosolic fructose 1,6 bisphosphatase ratios were made with ImageJ. Conflict of interest
