ABSTRACT:
is blocked in ethylene-insensitive mutants. The dose dependence for ethylene induction varies among the  ARGOS  family members, suggesting that they could modulate responses across a range of ethylene concentrations. GFP-fusions of ARGOS and ARL localize to the endoplasmic reticulum, the same subcellular location as the ethylene receptors and other initial components of the ethylene signaling pathway. Seedlings with increased expression of  ARGOS  family members exhibit reduced ethylene sensitivity based on physiological and molecular responses. Conclusions These
RESULTS:
two predicted transmembrane domains (Additional file  1 ). Prior analysis has suggested that members of the ARGOS family might be localized to nucleus, cytoplasm, plasma membrane and/or endoplasmic reticulum [ 28 – 31 ]. We found that the green-fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions of ARGOS and ARL are membrane-localized based on fractionation of transgenic plant lines into microsomal and soluble fractions (Fig.  3a ). Furthermore, the fusion proteins are resistant to extraction from the membranes by sodium chloride, but can be
with the detergent lysophosphatidylcholine (Fig.  3b ). In this respect, they are similar to the transmembrane ethylene-receptor ETR1 [ 36 ], consistent with ARGOS and ARL being transmembrane proteins. Although readily detectable by immunoblot analysis, we could not detect ARGOS-GFP and ARL-GFP based on their GFP fluorescence in these stable transgenic lines. Therefore, to determine the subcellular localization of ARGOS and ARL, we transiently expressed the GFP fusions in Arabidopsis protoplasts (Fig.  3c ). The resulting fluorescence co-localized with the ER-marker BiP-RFP. Furthermore, the fluorescence in the region underlying the plasma membrane exhibited the distinctive reticulate network appearance found with the cortical ER (Fig.  3c ). No localization to the plasma membrane itself was detected. Thus, both the co-localization with BiP
features of the membrane network support ER localization for ARGOS and ARL, consistent with results reported by Feng et al. [29]. Fig. 3 ARGOS and ARL are membrane-associated proteins localized to the ER.  a  Membrane association of ARGOS-GFP and ARL-GFP. Membrane and soluble fractions were isolated from green seedlings following 4-h treatment in the absence or presence of 10 μL L −1  ethylene. Immunoblot analysis was performed with anti-GFP antibody to detect the ARGOS-GFP and ARL-GFP. Immunological detection of the ethylene receptor ETR1 and ACC-oxidase served as markers for the membrane and the soluble fractions, respectively.  b  Strong association of ARGOS and ARL with membranes. Microsomal membranes were treated with 0.5 M NaCl or 0.5% (w/v) lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC). The different lanes represent the total membranes prior to centrifugation (T), and from the soluble (S) and (P) fractions after centrifugation. The relative amounts of ARGOS-GFP, ARL-GFP, and ETR1 were determined by immunoblot analysis, the membrane protein ETR1 serving as an internal control for solubilization.  c  ARGOS and ARL localize to the ER. Protoplasts were transfected with either ARGOS-GFP or ARL-GFP (green), along with the ER-marker BiP-RFP (magenta), and visualized by confocal microscopy. Regions of overlap are indicated by white on the merged image. DIC images of protoplasts are also shown. Focused region is on the cortical ER underlying the plasma membrane. Scale bars = 10 μm The  ARGOS  family regulates ethylene sensitivity of seedlings We found that the  ARGOS:ARGOS-GFP  and  ARL:ARL-GFP  lines affected ethylene sensitivity based on the growth response of dark-grown seedlings to ethylene. Wild-type seedlings
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Methods Constructs and plant transformation To make constructs for expression of  ARGOS  (At3g59900) and  ARL  (At2g44080) with C-terminal GFP tags and driven under their native promoters, genomic fragments including 5′ flanking regions (1640 bp and 1479 bp for  ARGOS  and  ARL , respectively) and coding regions (390 bp and 405 bp for  ARGOS  and  ARL ,
amplified using the primers 5′-GAATCCATGATTCGAGAAATCTCAAACTTAC-3′ and 5′-GGATCCTGACATGAAATTGCAAGTTACATCTG-3′ and  ARL  amplified using the primers 5′-GAATCATGATTCGTGAGTTCTCCAGTCTAC-3′ and 5′-GGATCCCATAAAAGTGGAAGAAGAAGAAACATG-3′, and the fragments cloned into pCR8. The fragments were moved into pEarleyGate100 [ 64 ] for stable plant transformation and into CsVGFP-999 [ 65 ] for protoplast transfection. For plant transformation, constructs were introduced into  Agrobacterium tumefaciens  strain GV3101 and transformed into Arabidopsis by the floral-dip method [ 66
TCS SP UV confocal microscope, GFP being imaged with a 488 nm laser, RFP with a 561 nm laser, and protoplasts with DIC optics. For analysis of the ethylene response, the reporter constructs  GCC-LUC  [ 40 ] and  ERF1-LUC  [ 42 ] were used. The  UBQ10-GUS  construct was
used to measure protein concentration as described [ 68 ]. Before SDS-PAGE, protein samples were mixed with SDS-PAGE loading buffer and incubated at 37 °C for 1 h to denature integral membrane proteins without aggregation. Primary antibodies used were HRP-conjugated monoclonal anti-GFP (Santa Cruz Biotechnology), anti-ETR1 [ 69 ], anti-BIP (Stressgen Biotech), and anti-ACC oxidase (Santra Cruz Biotechnology). Analysis of the ethylene response For short-term ethylene treatment of green seedlings, seedlings were grown at 22 °C for two to three weeks with
