ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
( Fig. 2A ;  Supplementary Fig. S1  at  JXB  online). Multiple nuclear localization signals are located in both the N- and C-terminal regions, which are marked with asterisks. To determine the subcellular localization of NSN1, GFP fusion proteins of  Arabidopsis  NSN1 and NSN1-deletion mutants were expressed in  N.
the cytosol ( Fig. 2B ;  Supplementary Fig. S4 ). The deletion mutant lacking the N-terminal 174 amino acids was not stably expressed in  N. bethamiana  leaves, regardless of the position of GFP tagging. The N-terminus (NSN1-N; amino acid residues 1–174) was sufficient to target the GFP fusion protein to the nucleolus. The GFP fusion protein containing the NSN1 C-terminal region (NSN1-C; amino acids 318–582) localized to both the nucleus and the cytosol ( Fig. 2B ;  Supplementary Fig. S5 ). This result suggests that the NSN1 N-terminal region is crucial for
acids 145–147), G4–G3, GTP-binding motifs (amino acids 175–307); and A, acidic domain (amino acids 471–570). Amino acid (aa) residues at deletion points are marked. Asterisks indicate nuclear localization signals. (B) Subcellular localization of NSN1 and NSN1 deletion mutants using GFP fusion. GFP fusion proteins were expressed in  N. benthamiana  leaves via agroinfiltration, and protoplasts prepared from the infiltrated leaves were observed by confocal laser scanning microscopy for GFP fluorescence and chlorophyll autofluorescence. Protoplasts expressing GFP:NSN1 were stained with 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) to visualize the nucleus. (C) Effects of mycophenolic acid (MPA) on the localization of NSN1 and NSN1 deletion mutants.  Nictiana benthamiana  leaves were agroinfiltrated with GFP fusion constructs and then treated with MPA (20 μM) for 12h. Nuclei were visualized by DAPI staining. (This figure is available in colour at  JXB  online.) Next it was tested whether GTP depletion within a cell affects
Next, BiFC interactions between NSN1 and PES mutants were examined ( Supplementary Fig. S7 ). NSN1 interacted with the N-terminal PES-N domain in the nucleolus, but with ∆PES-N (a PES mutant lacking the PES-N domain) in the nucleus. Previously, GFP-fused ∆PES-N exhibited a diffuse nucleoplasmic distribution ( Cho  et al. , 2013 ). These results suggest that PES interaction with NSN1 involves the PES-N domain as well as other regions of PES. BiFC analyses also revealed
(Y N ) or YFP C  (Y C ) fusion proteins in  N. benthamiana  leaves using agroinfiltration. Protoplasts were prepared from the infiltrated leaves and observed for YFP fluorescence after brief staining with DAPI to visualize nuclei. (B) BiFC analyses of NSN1 interaction with ribosomal proteins. Left, confocal microscopy; right, immunoblot analysis (IB). (C, D) Co-immunoprecipitation. Protein extracts were prepared from  N. benthamiana  leaves co-expressing
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
on agar, seeds were surface-sterilized and sown on Petri dishes containing MS medium [Murashige and Skoog salts pH 5.7, 0.35% Phytagel (Sigma), and 2% sucrose] with ethanol [– dexamethasone (DEX)] or with 20 μM DEX. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) To prepare radioactive 16S and 23S rRNA probes, the cDNAs encoding full-length 16S and 23S rRNA were cloned into the pGEM T-easy vector. The constructs were digested with  Bam HI restriction enzyme, and  32 P-labelled RNAs were
 with modification. Five seedlings each of wild-type (WT) and DEX-inducible  NSN1  RNAi (RNA interference) lines with or without DEX treatment were incubated overnight with 20 μCi of [α- 32 P]UTP that was diluted in 1ml of MS liquid medium. Total RNA was extracted with a Spectrum™ Plant Total RNA
through 15–55% sucrose density gradients as described ( Ahn  et al. , 2011 ). Total proteins were extracted from sucrose density gradient fractions and subjected to SDS–PAGE and immunoblotting with anti-RPL10a antibodies (Santa Cruz Biotechnology). For co-fractionation analyses, GFP fusion proteins of NSN1, NSN1-N, or EBP2 were expressed in  N. benthamiana  leaves by agroinfiltration, and the leaf extracts were fractionated through 5–35% sucrose density gradients. Proteins extracted from the fractions were separated by SDS–PAGE and subjected to immunoblotting with anti-GFP antibodies (Clontech) and anti-RPL10a antibodies. Methods describing VIGS; generation of DEX-inducible NSN1 RNAi lines in  Arabidopsis ;  Agrobacterium -mediated transient expression; real-time quantitative reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR); bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC); measurement of  in vivo  H
