ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
distribution of the leaf epidermal plastids in WT observed in the present study were basically in accordance with previous reports ( Chen et al., 2009 ;  Schattat and Klösgen, 2011 ). Dual detection of stroma-targeted CFP and FtsZ1–GFP [AtFtsZ1-1–sGFP(S65T)] ( Fujiwara et al., 2008 ) in a transgenic line (see Materials and Methods for details) revealed that the peanut-shaped plastids in the leaf epidermis were associated with the production of centrally located FtsZ1–GFP signals within the plastids (
2,000-fold reduction in the  AtMinE1  transcripts as compared to those in WT ( Fujiwara et al., 2008 ). Detailed Morphology of Leaf Epidermal Plastids in the  atminE1  Mutant Taking advantage of the merits of plastid-targeted CFP described above, we investigated the plastid morphology in leaf petiole epidermis of 2- and 3-week-old  atminE1  seedlings using epifluorescence microscopy ( Figure  2 ). While epidermal (pavement) cells of the leaf blade are puzzle piece-shaped with
 2J ). Tiny plastids in the epidermis of chloroplast division mutants, which were previously reported, lacked chlorophyll ( Holzinger et al., 2008 ). FIGURE 2 Plastid morphology in leaf epidermis of  atminE1 . (A–J)  Images of CFP-labeled plastids in leaf petiole epidermis of 2- or 3-week-old  atminE1  seedlings. Fluorescence images of chlorophyll (colored in magenta) are also shown. Asterisks indicate plastid bodies with positive chlorophyll signals. Plastids in  (D,F–I)  lack signals. Bars
of dumbbell-shaped, chlorophyll-bearing plastids implies that some of these chlorophyll-containing plastids maintain the capability of proliferation by division. FIGURE 3 Various types of plastid morphology and distribution patterns in leaf epidermis of  atminE1 . (A–H)  Images of CFP-labeled plastids in leaf petiole epidermis of 2- or 3-week-old  atminE1  seedlings. DIC and chlorophyll fluorescence (Chl magenta-colored) images are also shown. Asterisks indicate plastids with chlorophyll signals only within cells, while double arrowheads indicate cell nuclei. Single
in  (D)  is a CFP image of a chlorophyll-positive plastid pair taken using a shorter exposure time. Bars = 10 μm (white) and 100 μm (black).  (I)  Measurement of plastid morphologies in WT and  atminE1 . Phenotypes of epidermal plastids in
Hanson, 2004 ). To investigate the possible relationship between subplastidic structures (bulges and stromules) and mitochondria, we employed a transgenic  A. thaliana  line, FL4-4, which stably expresses both mitochondrion-targeted YFP and plastid-targeted CFP, as well as  atminE1  harboring both marker genes (transferred from FL4-4 by crossing;  Itoh et al., 2010 ). Using these lines, we conducted simultaneous detection and morphological comparisons of both organelles. No colocalization of CFP signals from grape-like plastid clusters, giant plastids, or stromules with YFP signals from mitochondria in  atminE1  was observed ( Figures  4A,B ), as was the case for plastid bodies and stromules of WT ( Figure  1E , middle). Meanwhile, due to the higher surface area of plastids in the mutant, attachment of mitochondria to plastids was more frequently observed in  atminE1  than in WT. Although the bulge structures, which were attached to the plastid bodies or stromules, most closely resembled mitochondria, their CFP signals did not perfectly coincide with mitochondrial YFP signals ( Figure  4C ), indicating that these subplastidic structures and mitochondria were mutually discrete compartments. FIGURE 4 Simultaneous detection of plastids and mitochondria in leaf epidermis of  atminE1 . (A–C)  Images of plastids and mitochondria in leaf petiole epidermis of 2- or 3-week-old  atminE1  seedlings. Images of plastid-targeted CFP (top in black and white), chlorophyll (Chl magenta-colored), mitochondria-targeted YFP (orange-colored), and merged (CFP cyan-colored, YFP orange-colored) are shown. Bars = 10 μm. At present, we cannot completely exclude the possibility that the
has been reported ( Schattat et al., 2011a , b ), the interaction of plastids and their derived structures, including stromules, with other organelles still deserves further investigation in future studies. Genetic Complementation of  atminE1  with  AtMinE1-YFP To elucidate the relationship between the mutant phenotypes and the function of AtMinE1, it
light of a comprehensive  A. thaliana  transcriptome study ( Winter et al., 2007 ) and a study of non-photosynthetic plastids of  atminE1  ( Kojo et al., 2009 ). We constructed an  AtMinE1  promoter:: AtMinE1-YFP  fusion gene ( Figure  5A ) and introduced it into the nuclear genome of  atminE1  via  Agrobacterium -mediated transformation. The complemented  atminE1  transgenic plants, if obtained, would produce almost WT levels of
( ∗ ) are indicated at the right.  (D)  Complementation of plant phenotype of  atminE1  by  AtMinE1-YFP . One-month-old WT,  atminE1 , and a complemented plant are shown.  (E)  Complementation of plastid morphology of  atminE1  by  AtMinE1-YFP . Images of chlorophyll autofluorescence from epidermal (top; from 3-week-old seedlings) and cortex (bottom; from 2-week-old seedlings) plastids of WT,  atminE1 , and transgenic  atminE1  plants are shown. Arrowheads represent epidermal plastids. Bar = 10 μm.  (F)  Fluorescence stereomicroscopy. A complemented  atminE1  line at both the vegetative and reproductive stages was observed. Images of bright field (BF), YFP fluorescence (green), and chlorophyll autofluorescence (Chl, magenta) are shown. Arrowheads indicate accumulation of YFP signals at the shoot apices. Bars = 1 mm (single) and 200 μm (double).  (G)  Localization of AtMinE1-YFP signals in leaf epidermal plastids. Fluorescence images of YFP (green) and chlorophyll (magenta) in a leaf epidermal cell of the complemented  atminE1  line are shown. Bar = 5 μm. We obtained 24 T 1  lines with bialaphos resistance conferred by the
levels in young tissues, with maximum expression occurring in the shoot apex. We further examined the subcellular localization of AtMinE1-YFP in leaf epidermal cells of the complemented plants ( Figure  5G ). YFP signals were exclusively localized to plastids, with diffuse signals present throughout an area of deeply constricted organelles. The morphological phenotype of the plastids was restored to that of WT, with AtMinE1-YFP fluorescence detected within the plastids. Altogether, these results demonstrate that the role of AtMinE1 is intimately associated with plastid division and morphogenesis in the leaf epidermis, and its deficiency causes abnormal plastid phenotypes, likely as a direct consequence rather
localization of FtsZ1 in the  atminE1  leaf epidermis using a transgenic line in which the FtsZ1–GFP fusion was expressed under its own promoter ( Fujiwara et al., 2008 ). Previously, we observed multiple FtsZ1 rings in mini-sized plastid bodies in the  atminE1  leaf epidermis ( Fujiwara et al., 2009 ). Here, by simultaneously utilizing FtsZ1–GFP and stroma-targeted CFP, we further monitored FtsZ1 localization (with great precision) within stromules and bulges in addition to plastid bodies ( Figure  6 ). FIGURE 6 FtsZ1 localization in stromules and plastid bulges in leaf epidermis of  atminE1 . (A–F)  Dual detection of FtsZ1–GFP and stroma-targeted CFP in epidermal plastids of  atminE1  leaf petioles. Fluorescence images of CFP, GFP (orange-colored), chlorophyll (magenta-colored), and merged (CFP cyan-colored, GFP orange-colored) are shown. In  (B) , line profiles of normalized CFP and GFP signal intensity in left and right
) based on the above criteria. In the  atminE1  leaf epidermis, we also observed a putative FtsZ1 ring at one or more constriction site(s) of the plastid main bodies ( Figures  6C,D ). In such plastids, FtsZ1–GFP signals were concentrated either in a short filament traversing
diffusion signal. Since epidermal plastids in  atminE1  are highly irregular and pleomorphic, it was previously difficult to judge whether such a plastid was undergoing fission merely based on its shape. It is noteworthy that the use of FtsZ1–GFP in combination with stromal CFP enabled us to identify epidermal plastids undergoing fission ( Figure  6C , for example). Based on the above observations, together with our previous findings ( Fujiwara et al., 2009 ), we postulate that, even without AtMinE1, (i) FtsZ1
yet to be verified experimentally. To address this issue, we performed time-lapse fluorescence imaging of FtsZ1–GFP according to the method of  Fujiwara et al. (2009) , demonstrating that plastid bodies were capable of isthmus formation and constriction without AtMinE1 ( Figure  6E ). Intriguingly, as exemplified by the plastid shown in  Figure
the vast majority of FtsZ1–GFP fluorescence was detected as a diffuse signal within the plastid stroma ( Figure  6F ; see also Supplementary Figure  S4 ). The apparent aggregations of plastids that occasionally occurred in the  atminE1  leaf epidermis (
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
A T-DNA insertional mutant of  AtMinE1 , Flag_056G07 (DLFTV7T3, Ws background), was obtained from Institut National de la Recherché Agronomique (INRA, Versailles, France) ( Samson et al., 2002 ). A transgenic line, Z1g11 (Col background), expressing a full-length AtFtsZ1-1–sGFP(S65T) fusion (FtsZ1–GFP) under an upstream genomic sequence of  AtFtsZ1-1 , and its cross with  atminE1  were previously described ( Fujiwara et al., 2008 ,  2009 ). Another transgenic line, FL4-4 (Col background), expressing stroma-targeted CFP (TP FtsZ1-1 –CFP), and matrix-targeted yellow fluorescent protein (YFP; Pre mtHSP60 -YFP) under the control of the CaMV35S promoter, and its cross with  atminE1 , were also generated previously ( Itoh et al., 2010 ). A stable line, ptA5-3 (Col background), expressing stroma-targeted GFP (TP RBCS3A -GFP) under the control of the CaMV35S promoter ( Niwa et al., 1999 ), was provided by Dr. Yasuo Niwa. Plants were germinated and grown as previously described ( Fujiwara et al., 2009 ), except for the duration of cold treatment of seeds being 4 days. Generation of Transgenic Line Expressing Stroma-targeted CFP To monitor plastids in living tissues of  A. thaliana , a gene cassette expressing an N-terminal transit peptide sequence (90 aa) of AtFtsZ1-1 fused to the N-terminus of CFP (provided by Dr. Atsushi Miyawaki) (TP FtsZ1-1 –CFP) under the control of the CaMV  35S  promoter and the  NOS  terminator was inserted into the  Hin dIII and  Eco RI sites of the binary vector pSMAB704 ( Igasaki et al., 2002 ;
( Clough and Bent, 1998 ). A total of 429 transformed (T 1 ) seedlings were selected on bialaphos (4 μg/l, Meiji Seika, Tokyo, Japan)-containing MS plates. Of 13 lines that showed high and stable CFP fluorescence, one line, FC1-7, was chosen for its fluorescence stability over three generations without occurrence of transgene silencing, with the aid of stereofluorescence microscopy (model FLIII; Leica Microsystems, Heidelberg, Germany). FC1-7 was crossed with Z1g11 and Z1g11 ×  atminE1  to efficiently visualize the stroma in these lines. The F 3  progenies were characterized by fluorescence microscopy. Complementation Assay of  atminE1  with  AtMinE1-YFP A genomic copy of  AtMinE1  was amplified by PCR with oligonucleotide primers E1-9 (5′-GA G TCG ACC CGG G TT ACG AAG AAG CCT TGG TTC-3′) and E1-8 (5′-T GT CGA C CT CTG GAA CAT AAA
AtMinE1  open reading frame, was introduced into pSMAB704 by simultaneously removing the CaMV35S promoter,  uidA , and the  NOS  terminator cassette and co-introducing a 1.0 kb  Sal I- Eco RI fragment of the  YFP :: NOS  terminator cassette (the original  YFP  [ Venus ] was provided by Drs. Takeharu Nagai and A. Miyawaki). The resulting plasmid, pSMAB-E1-V, was employed for  Agrobacterium -mediated transformation of the  A. thaliana atminE1  mutant ( Clough and Bent, 1998 ). A
was quantified with image processing software ImageJ version 1.43j ( http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/ ). Stereofluorescence Microscopy Whole seedlings or floral organs were observed under a stereofluorescence microscope (FLIII [Leica Microsystems]) equipped with a CCD digital camera (ORCA-ER [Hamamatsu Photonics, Hamamatsu, Japan]). YFP and chlorophyll signals were detected with standard filter sets for EYFP (Leica; excitation: 500–520 nm; emission: 540–580 nm) and Texas Red (excitation: 540–580 nm; emission:>610 nm), respectively. Digital black-and-white images were processed using Adobe
coverslips and observed under an epifluorescence microscope (IX70 [Olympus, Tokyo, Japan], equipped with ORCA-ER [Hamamatsu Photonics]) using 60× (numerical aperture [N.A.] 1.20, water immersion), 60× (N.A. 1.35, oil immersion), and 100× (N.A. 1.40, oil immersion) objective lenses (Olympus). Stroma-targeted GFP was detected with a filter cube U-MWIBA (Olympus; excitation: 460–490 nm; emission: 510–550
