ABSTRACT:
The Arabidopsis protein DELAY OF GERMINATION 1 (DOG1) is a key regulator of seed dormancy, which is a life history trait that determines the timing of seedling emergence. The amount of DOG1 protein in freshly harvested seeds determines their dormancy level. DOG1 has been identified
RESULTS:
share their last 24 amino acids with each other ( Fig 1A ). All three DOG1 isoforms are located in the nucleus The cellular localisation of the three DOG1 isoforms was analysed by transient expression of their N-terminal yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fusion proteins in  Nicotiana benthamiana  leaves. All three fusion proteins were mainly detected in the nucleus similar as previously shown in transgenic Arabidopsis seeds containing YFP fused with the DOG1 genomic fragment ( Fig 1D ) [ 18 ]. These results were confirmed by transformation of Arabidopsis protoplasts with C-terminal YFP fusion proteins of the three DOG1 isoforms ( S2 Fig ). The presence of all three DOG1 protein isoforms in the nucleus suggests that they are able to meet each other. The accumulation of DOG1 protein requires the presence
based on split YFP. As shown in  Fig 4B , YFP fluorescence could be observed in the nuclei of Arabidopsis embryo cells containing two transgenes consisting of the N- and C- terminal halves of YFP fused to different DOG1 splicing forms. Fluorescence was not detected in the controls. 10.1371/journal.pgen.1005737.g004 Fig 4 Self-binding of DOG1 affects DOG1 functionality
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
XL site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene). The resultant genomic entry clones were converted into pGWB1 [ 30 ] by LR reaction. For isoform specific complementation, each variant cDNA fragment was cloned under the DOG1 promoter_Cvi into the pGreen backbone. For fluorescent protein fusion constructs, each variant cDNA was cloned into 2x Pro 35S: YFP vectors, pENSG-YFP (N-terminal fusion) and pEXSG-YFP (C-terminal fusion), and split YFP vectors, pBatTL-B-sYFPn and pBatTL-B-sYFPc [ 31 ] via LR reaction. All the binary constructs were introduced by electroporation into  Agrobacterium tumefaciens  strains GV3101 or GV3101 carrying the helper plasmid pMP90RK [ 32 ] or pSoup [ 33 ], which were subsequently
lines were first selected based on their antibiotics resistance, their homozygosity was further confirmed by PCR-based genotyping. Confocal microscopy analysis Subcellular localisation of each DOG1 isoform was analysed using binary constructs with single variant cDNA from Cvi fused to YFP at their N-terminus or C-terminus and cloned under the CaMV 35S promoter. Transiently expressed fusion proteins were observed in  Nicotiana benthamiana  leaves
thaliana  protoplasts (from Col) as described [ 10 ]. For BiFC assays, embryos from 1 h-imbibed seeds of the double homozygous transformants were dissected from testa/endosperm, and restored YFP fluorescence was analysed. Observations were performed with either Zeiss LSM510 or LSM700 confocal laser scanning microscope system using 514 nm lasers for excitation with 63x oil-immersion objective. The images were analysed using the LSM5 software or ZEN imaging software
