ABSTRACT:
fertilization. Although many genes have been identified as being involved in the process, the molecular mechanisms of pollen tube growth remains poorly understood. In this study, we identified that the  Arabidopsis   Transmembrane Protein 18  ( AtTMEM18 ) gene played important roles in pollen tube growth. The AtTMEM18 shares a high similarity with the Transmembrane 18 proteins (TMEM18s) that are conserved in most eukaryotes and may play important roles in obesity in humans. Mutation in the  AtTMEM18  by a  Ds  insertion caused abnormal callose deposition in the pollen grains and
is expressed in pollen grains, pollen tubes, root tips and other vegetative tissues. The pollen‐rescued assays showed that the mutation in  AtTMEM18  also caused defects in roots, stems, leaves and transmitting tracts. AtTMEM18‐GFP was located around the nuclei. Genetic assays demonstrated that the localization of AtTMEM18 around the nuclei in the generative cells of pollen grains was essential for the male fertility. Furthermore, expression of the rice TMEM18‐homologous protein (OsTMEM18) driven by  LAT52  promoter could recover the fertility of the  Arabidopsis   attmem18 
RESULTS:
indicating that the AtTMEM18‐GFP fusion protein could function normally. The GFP signals were observed in roots, pollen grains at the unicellular to tricellular stages and pollen tubes. In unicellular pollen grains, the GFP signals were detected around the unique nuclei (Figure  7
detected around the vegetative and sperm nuclei in the growing pollen tubes (Figure  7 D). In the root hair, the GFP signals were expressed around the nuclei (Figure  7 E). Figure 7   Subcellular localization of AtTMEM18‐GFP  ( A–E ) The GFP signals were located around the nuclei in unicellular pollen grain ( A ), bicellulare pollen grain ( B ), tricellulare pollen grain ( C ), pollen tube ( D ) and root hair ( E ) from the p AtTMEM18 :g AtTMEM18‐GFP  transgenic plants. ( F–I ) The GFP signals were located around the nuclei in the unicellular pollen grain ( F ), bicellulare pollen grain ( G ), tricellulare pollen grain ( H ) and root hair ( I ) from p AtTMEM18 :c AtTMEM18‐GFP  transgenic plants. GN, generative nuclei; N, nuclei; VN, vegetative nuclei; Bars = 5 µm. Copyright © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. To examine whether the protein localization was related to the introns of the gene, another construct was generated by replacing the
mutant. The GFP signal was detected in the p AtTMEM18 :c AtTMEM18‐GFP  transgenic pollen grains and roots (Figure  7 F–I) roots and pollen grains. In the transgenic root hairs, the GFP signals could be detected around the nucleus like those in the p AtTMEM18 :g AtTMEM18 ‐ GFP  transgenic plants (Figure 7 I). During the periods of pollen development, however, the GFP signals were appeared only around the vegetative cell nuclei (Figure  7 F–H), differently from those in the p AtTMEM18 :g AtTMEM18 ‐ GFP  transgenic pollen grains in which GFP signals were located not only around the vegetative nuclei but also around the generative nuclei at the bicellular stage or around the sperm nuclei at the mature pollen stage. These results indicated that the introns of the  AtTMEM18
indicating that all six constructs could complement the fertility of  attmem18  mutant. The GFP signals were located around the vegetative and sperm nuclei of the transgenic tricellular pollen grains (Figure S2B). Thus, any one intron of  AtTMEM18  could be enough to enable the correct expression of  AtTMEM18  in the
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
MATERIALS AND METHODS Plant materials and mutant isolation The  Arabidopsis thaliana  plants used in this study were all in Landsberg  erecta  background. The seeds were plated on MS‐salt agar plates with or without 50 mg/L kanamycin (Sigma‐Aldrich) or
into the Ti‐derived binary vector pCAMBIA1300 (CAMBIA, Australia) and introduced into the  attmem18  heterozygous mutant plants by  Agrobacterium tumefaciens  (strain GV3101)‐mediated infiltration method (Bechtold and Pelletier  1998 ). The transformant plants were selected on MS medium supplemented with 50 mg/L kanamycin
soil to produce T2 seeds. The T2 seeds were germinated on kanamycin‐containing MS agar plates to evaluate the complementation efficiency by analyzing the segregation ratio of kanamycin resistance. The pollen rescue experiment was performed by pollen‐specific expression of  AtTMEM18  coding region in  attmem18/+  plants. The coding region of  AtTMEM18  was amplified using r Taq  with primers AtTMEM18‐c‐5′ and AtTMEM18‐c‐3′ (Table S4). The  LAT52  promoter fragment was obtained from the plasmid pUCLNGFP2 (a gift from Dr. Zhenbiao Yang, Department of Botany and Plant Science, University of California at Riverside, CA). The resulting DNA fragment was cloned into Ti‐derived binary vector pCAMBIA1300. The resulting constructs were transformed into  attmem18/+  plants.
the expression cassette p AtTMEM18 : GUS . The resulting construct was introduced into the wild type plants by  Agrobacterium tumefaciens  (strain GV3101)‐mediated infiltration method (Bechtold and Pelletier  1998 ). The transformant plants were selected on MS medium supplemented with 20 mg/L
