ABSTRACT:
of  Arabidopsis thaliana  seedlings expressing END BINDING protein 1c (EB1c) fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) under control of native  EB1c  promoter. Unlike the other two members of the EB1 family, plant-specific EB1c shows prominent nuclear localization in non-dividing cells in all developmental zones of the root apex. The nuclear localization of EB1c was previously mentioned solely in meristematic cells, but not further addressed. With the help of advanced light-sheet microscopy, we report quantitative evaluations of developmentally-regulated nuclear levels of the EB1c protein tagged with GFP relatively to the nuclear size in diverse root tissues (epidermis, cortex, and endodermis) and root developmental zones (meristem, transition, and elongation zones). Our results demonstrate a high potential of light-sheet microscopy for 4D live imaging
RESULTS:
tip of 2-days old  A. thaliana  seedling expressing EB1c-GFP. Average root zonation into individual cell developmental zones consisting meristematic zone (m), transition zone (t), elongation zone (e), and differentiation zone (d) is depicted. EB1c-GFP was localized in nuclei of root cells, with particularly strong expression level in cells of the root meristematic zone.  (C)  Live cell imaging of seedling growing inside of the light-sheet microscope over the period of 2 h.
in cells of individual root tissue layers, in epidermis (arrow, ep), cortex (arrow, c), endodermis (arrow, en), central cylinder (arrow, cc), and lateral root cap cells (arrow, lrc). In all imaged tissues, light-sheet microscopy revealed clearly nuclear localization of EB1c-GFP in root cells.  (E)  Localization of EB1c-GFP by light-sheet microscopy during mitotic cell division of root cells in the meristematic zone. EB1c-GFP relocated from G2 stage nuclei to spindle in prophase (p), metaphase (m), and anaphase (a), to phragmoplast at early and late telophase (et, lt), and redistributed back to reconstructed G1 stage nuclei after cell division. Time progression of the
allows real-time or time-lapse imaging of whole developing seedlings (Ovecka et al.,  2015 ). We performed live cell imaging with seedlings growing over a period between 2 and 5 h inside the light-sheet microscope. EB1c-GFP was localized in nuclei of all non-dividing root cells within the root apex, with particularly strong expression level in cells of the root meristematic zone (Figure  1B ). General overview of EB1c-GFP expressing roots revealed zonation of the root apex into different
cells and epidermis, but further allowed visualization of individual cells from inner tissues of the  Arabidopsis  root including the cortex, the endodermis and the central cylinder. In all imaged tissues, light-sheet microscopy revealed clearly nuclear localization of EB1c-GFP in root cells (Figure  1D ). Subcellular resolution of the light-sheet microscopy was documented during mitotic cell division of root cells in the meristematic zone, where EB1c-GFP relocated from G2 stage nuclei to mitotic spindles and cytokinetic phragmoplasts during the respective cell division stages and finally was redistributed back to reconstituted G1 stage nuclei after completing cell division (Figure  1E ). The longitudinal developmental zonation of the root apex of plants expressing EB1c-GFP fusion protein into different developmental zones was determined in individual cell files of epidermis (Figures 2A–D, arrows in B
). Before starting rapid cell elongation, however, there was a population of cells with short length, as indicated by short and similar distance between nuclei of individual cells (Figures  2B,F,J ). In addition, they showed reduction in the EB1c-GFP fluorescence intensity. Based on these characteristics, an onset of the transition zone placed before rapid cell elongation could be identified in each cell file
(Figure  2B ), cortex (Figure  2F ), and endodermis (Figure  2J ). Cells from the transition zone of each tissue layer entered subsequently cell elongation zone, which was indicated by further changes in the nucleus size, EB1c-GFP fluorescence intensity and apparent dilatation of distances between neighbor nuclei within the cell files (Figures  2C,G,K ). Rapid cell elongation was connected with apparent enlargement of nuclei in epidermis (Figure  2D ) and cortex (Figure  2H ), changes in nuclear shape in all three tissue layers (Figures  2D,H,L ) and further reduction in EB1c-GFP fluorescence intensity. Figure 2 Shoot-ward developmental zonation in the root apex of transgenic  Arabidopsis thaliana  plants expressing EB1c-GFP protein . Cell arrangement and position were assessed in individual cell files of epidermis  (A–D) , cortex  (E–H)  and endodermis  (I–L) . Typical appearance of cells in each tissue layer with nuclear localization of EB1c-GFP is shown for meristematic zone  (A,E,I) , at the meristem-transition zone border  (B,F,J) , at the transition zone-elongation zone border  (C,G,K)  and within the elongation zone  (D,H,L) . Arrows define nuclei of first cell
to the scale recorded during the acquisition of each individual cell type. Scale bar = 5 μm. To characterize the distribution of EB1c-GFP in the apex of  Arabidopsis  root in detail, we quantified the intensity of EB1c-GFP nuclear fluorescence in the previously defined root cell developmental zones (meristem, transition zone, elongation zone and differentiation zone). The quantitative evaluation of the EB1c-GFP protein content in interphase nuclei of root cells was performed in light-sheet images acquired in 4D modes (encompassing x, y, z, and t dimensions). In individual cell files of the epidermis, the cortex and the endodermis all interphase nuclei
the distance between nuclei of individual cells in the elongation zone. Thus, all cells in each cell file were topologically divided into meristematic zone, transition zone, and elongation zone (Figure  1B ). Values of nuclear surface area and EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity for quantitative evaluation were plotted against cell position counted from the stem cells surrounding quiescence center. Both parameters were measured and evaluated separately for the epidermis, the cortex and the endodermis. We found that in all tissues, as cells proceeded from proliferation to the differentiation, the nuclear surface area increased while fluorescence intensity of EB1c-GFP signal decreased. This trend was apparent from quantification of individual cell files of the epidermis (Figure  3A ), the cortex (Figure  3B ) and the endodermis (Figure  3C ). In the meristematic zone, actively dividing cells contained the smallest nuclei exhibiting the highest EB1c-GFP content. In the transition zone, the mean nuclear fluorescence intensity of EB1c-GFP was steeply decreased. This decline in EB1c-GFP fluorescence intensity continued in the elongation zone while the nuclear area progressively increased (Figure  3 ). Cross-correlation of nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity of some individual nuclei with their size and shape at certain position within the cell file revealed negative correlation between nuclear size and mean EB1c-GFP signal intensity in the meristematic zone (numbered insets in Figures  3A–C ). This negative correlation trend was stabilized in the transition zone and the elongation zone of all measured cell files in all evaluated tissue layers (Figure  3 ) as evidenced by the continuous decrease in EB1c-GFP fluorescence intensity with the progressive increase in nuclear size. Figure 3 Nuclear surface area and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity distribution in root developmental zones of the root apex in individual cell files . Relationship between nuclear area (blue line) and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity (red line) in respect to cell position counted from the stem cells surrounding quiescent center in individual cell file of epidermis  (A) , cortex  (B) , and endodermis  (C) . Values for nuclei
distinguishing also meristematic zone (appearing before the transition zone) and elongation zone (appearing after the transition zone). Inset images over the lines show individual nuclei of cells at the actual position, documenting changes in nuclear shape, size, and mean EB1c-GFP fluorescence intensity. Major vertical axis (on the left) represents the values for the normalized mean intensity and minor vertical axis (on the right) represents values for area measurements. Horizontal axis represents the actual cell
the size of G2 nuclei (Figure  4A ). Further recognizable increase in the nucleus size took place within the transition zone, and dramatic increase in the elongation zone of epidermis (Figure  4A ). Mean fluorescence intensity of EB1c-GFP in interphase nuclei of epidermis fluctuated considerably; however, it was high in the meristematic cells. In nuclei of cells entering the transition zone mean fluorescence intensity of EB1c-GFP dropped considerably and in nuclei of elongating cells this drop in mean fluorescence intensity was dramatic, reflecting the inversely proportional increase in the nucleus size (Figure  4A ). Figure 4 Nuclear surface area and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity in cells of different tissues along diverse developmental root zones . Average values of nuclear surface area (blue line) and EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity (red line) plotted against cell position counted from the stem cells surrounding quiescence center. Data from 4 individual cell files were collected and evaluated separately for epidermis  (A) ,
recorded also in cell files of the cortex layer (Figure  4B ). Nuclear size in the meristematic zone did not exceed the reference value for the size of G2 nuclei (Figure  4B ). Mean fluorescence intensity of EB1c-GFP in interphase nuclei of cortex cells was highest in the meristematic zone. However, it decreased dramatically in the transition zone, keeping further decreasing in the elongation zone as well (Figure  4B ). Size of nuclei of endodermal cells
as in cortex and epidermis, but the general tendency of gradual nuclear size increase from meristem through transition zone to elongation zone was maintained also in endodermis (Figure  4C ). Quantitative comparison of nuclear surface area and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity in cell developmental zones of the root apex thus showed that the expression of EB1c-GFP decreased along the longitudinal axis of the root apex in all three measured tissue layers. Highest intensity was measured in the meristematic zone where cells are actively dividing, while in the transition zone and further in the elongation zone, expression levels of EB1c-GFP decreased inversely in relation to the nuclear area which progressively increased before entering the differentiation zone. Reference values for comparison of nuclear surface area and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity in all types of measured cells from the root apex were recorded from typical cells of the root meristematic zone, which were present in G1 and G2 stages of mitotic cell division. For safe identification
obtained average values of G1 and G2 nuclei with average values of all measured nuclei from non-dividing cells of meristematic zone, and all cells of transition and elongation zones for nuclear surface area (Figure  5A ) and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity (Figure  5B ). This comparison was done separately for epidermis, cortex and endodermis. Average values of nuclear surface area of meristematic cells corresponded well with reference values from G1 and G2 nuclei. Most importantly, the
Size of nuclei in transition zone as well as in elongation zone was significantly higher. Significant differences in size of nuclei were also observed between transition zone and elongation zone (Figures  5A,C ). Similarly, average values of nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity of meristematic cells corresponded well with reference values from G1 and G2 nuclei, and there were found significantly lower values of nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity in cells of transition zone and elongation zone in comparison to cells of meristematic zone and reference G1 and G2 nuclei (Figures  5B,C ). From these data we can conclude that both nuclear size and EB1c-GFP fluorescence intensity showed significant differences between cells of meristematic zone, transition zone and elongation zone, and supported the correct classification of cells of the root apex into three distinct developmental zones. Figure 5 Reference values of nuclear area and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity in G1 and G2 stage meristematic cells as compared to post-meristematic cells . Average nuclear surface area  (A)  and average nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity  (B)  in G1 and G2 stage of cell cycle were compared with average values of the same parameters of non-dividing cells from meristem (M), transition zone (T), and elongation (E) zone in epidermis, cortex, and endodermis. Comparison of average nuclear surface area and average nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity values in individual cell developmental zones among individual tissue layers  (C) . Different letters represent statistical significance according to One-way ANOVA test at  P  < 0.05. From the data presented above it is apparent that there might be a high degree of correlation, positive or negative, between nuclear size and EB1c-GFP expression levels. We pursued this idea by quantitative correlation analysis plotting nuclear surface area, mean signal intensity (mean values per object area) and integrated signal intensity (sum values per object area) to clarify, whether the decrease of EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity during passage of root cells through cell developmental zones corresponds to the increase of nuclear surface area or not. This comparison was done separately for epidermal, cortical, and endodermal cells. In the meristematic zone, we observed the highest variability of the nuclear EB1c-GFP mean fluorescence signal intensity (Figures  3 ,  4 ) and thus not surprisingly, this zone exhibited the lowest correlation between nuclear surface area and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity (Figure  6A ). Measurements from transition zone and elongation zone were better correlated with prevalent negative values indicating that the decrease of EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity in the transition zone and the elongation zone corresponded mainly to increase of nuclear surface area and not to decline of EB1c-GFP expression levels. This suggests prior regulation of EB1c protein in the meristematic zone where cells are actively dividing. Most importantly, values from these three cell developmental zones were separated, albeit partially overlapping at their borders in the respective correlation scatter plots (Figure  6A ). This observation proves the regular passage of cells from one developmental zone to another. Similar correlation analysis between nuclear surface area and nuclear EB1c-GFP integrated signal intensity revealed again the partial separation of measurements from meristematic zone, transition zone and elongation zone in all three measured tissue layers, although lower correlation coefficients and higher variability, especially in epidermis and endodermis, were apparent (Figure  6B ). The highest intensity of EB1c-GFP fluorescence signal was measured in the meristematic zone, however, it was largely fluctuating (Figure  4 ). In accordance with this fact, the correlation between nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity and nuclear EB1c-GFP integrated signal intensity was lowest in the meristematic zone (Figure  6C ). It could reflect cell cycle-dependent regulation of EB1c in the zone of mitotically-active root cells. In the transition zone and the elongation zone expression of EB1c-GFP decreased opposite to the increased nuclear area, observation which was corroborated by the higher positive correlation coefficients for comparing nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity and nuclear EB1c-GFP integrated signal intensity (Figure  6C ). Figure 6 Quantitative correlation analysis of nuclear surface area, nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity, and nuclear EB1c-GFP integrated signal intensity in diverse tissues and developmental root zones . Separate graphs presenting correlation between nuclear surface area and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity  (A) , nuclear surface area and nuclear EB1c-GFP integrated signal intensity  (B) , and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity and nuclear EB1c-GFP integrated signal intensity  (C) . Data from 4 individual cell files were collected and evaluated separately for epidermis, cortex and endodermis from two independent roots. Data are plotted separately for meristem (M, blue dots), transition zone (T,
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
For the cloning, we used Gateway® technology. Primers were designed according to manufacturer's instructions. Whole genomic fragment was recombined into pDONR207 Gateway® vector and subsequently transferred by LR recombination reaction into the Gateway® destination vector pGWB450 designed for C-terminal GFP fusion with kanamycin resistance for plant selection. All recombinations were confirmed by sequencing. Expression vector pGWB450::pEB1c::EB1c:GFP was transformed into  Agrobacterium tumefaciens , strain GV3101. Transformed Agrobacteria were used for several independent transformations of  Arabidopsis  plants (Clough and Bent,  1998 ; Davis et al.,  2009 ). Seedlings were selected on kanamycin (50 mg/ml) selection medium to identify T1 transgenic plants. T1 transformants carrying pEB1c::EB1c:GFP constructs were checked for phenotype in comparison to control plants. No phenotypes were discerned and thus the T2 generation of  Arabidopsis  plants expressing pGWB450::pEB1c::EB1c:GFP was harvested and used for further experiments. Protein extraction, SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting Twelve-days old  Arabidopsis  plants expressing EB1c-GFP were analyzed on fluorescent stereomicroscope Leica MZ FLIII (Leica Microsystems, Germany) for EB1c-GFP signal. Protein extraction was carried out from roots of plants expressing EB1c-GFP and from wild type  Arabidopsis thaliana  (L.) Heynh. (ecotype Columbia). Roots were harvested, weighted, flesh frozen and immediately ground in the liquid nitrogen. Powder was extracted in extraction buffer (1:1, w/v) (50 mM Na-HEPES pH 7.5, 150
min, 8000 g at 4°C. Resulting supernatant was used for SDS-PAGE and subsequent western blot analysis. 15 μg of total protein was loaded on 8% SDS-PAGE gels followed by immunoblotting with PVDF membrane and Western blotted with antibody against GFP (anti GFP rabbit ABCAM AB290) in dilution of 1:2000. Secondary antibody (goat anti-rabbit, Santa Cruz Biotechnology) was used in dilution of 1:5000. After incubation in ECL reagents (according to manufacturer instructions), immunoreactive bands were documented using the BioRad ChemiDoc™ MP System. Plant material and sample preparation for light-sheet imaging Seeds of  Arabidopsis thaliana  (L.) Heynh. (ecotype Columbia) transgenic line expressing  pEB1::cEB1c:GFP  were surface sterilized, plated onto solidified MS medium and kept in 4°C for 4 days. After this period seeds were transferred to round 90 × 25 mm Petri dishes filled with 80 ml of ½MS medium solidified with
= absolute intensity, x min  = minimum absolute intensity and x max  = maximum absolute intensity). Thus, all biological variables within measured root tips were brought into the comparable proportions and plant—to—plant differences in the expression of EB1c-GFP were compensated. Data from 4 individual cell files were collected and evaluated separately for epidermis, cortex and endodermis from two independent experiments (two independent roots). Final statistical data evaluation and plot production was done with Microsoft Excel software. Prediction
