ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
) individually with AtCML5-YFP and AtCML4-YFP and ( B ) co-transformed with AtCML5-YFP and AtCML4-mCherry. ( C ) Subcellular localization of AtCML5 elucidated by staining of mitochondria with Mito-Tracker Red CMXRos (mitotracker) or co-transformation of tobacco protoplasts with mCherry-SKL, ER-mCherry, Golgi-mCherry, and ARA6-mCherry. YFP fluorescence is depicted in green, Mito-Tracker and mCherry fluorescence in magenta, and chlorophyll fluorescence in red. The white bar within all images represents 5 µm. Enlargements are shown as inlays. The AtCML5-YFP signal showed no overlap with chlorophyll fluorescence, demonstrating that AtCML5-YFP did not localize to the chloroplasts; it was also absent from the nucleus and the vacuole ( Fig. 2C ). Labelling of AtCML5-YFP–expressing protoplasts with Mito-Tracker Red CMXRos and co-expression analysis with an mCherry-tagged marker protein for peroxisomes (mCherry-SKL;  Chigri  et al. , 2012 ) revealed no overlap in fluorescence, also excluding the mitochondria and peroxisomes as the potential target compartments of AtCML5-YFP ( Fig. 2C ). Furthermore, co-expression analyses were performed with established marker proteins that label the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) (AtWAK2), Golgi (GmMAN1), and multivesicular bodies (MVBs)/endosomes (ARA6), respectively ( Ueda  et al. , 2001 ;  Nelson 
but not complete overlap with the signal from AtCML5-YFP was observed for both marker proteins exclusively in these spherical structures ( Fig. 2C ). Together, these results indicate that AtCML5 resides in vesicular structures within the interphase between the Golgi and the MVBs/endosomes, and circulation dynamics within these endomembrane compartments are the likely cause for the partial co-localization. Importantly, because transient expression of YFP-tagged AtCML4 and AtCML5 in Arabidopsis protoplasts controlled by their respective endogenous promoters results in a similar fluorescence signal pattern ( Supplementary Fig. S1B ),
separated by SDS-PAGE (Coomassie staining is shown in  Supplementary Fig. S2A ) and subsequently probed with antibodies against GFP and RFP to detect AtCML5-YFP and ARA6-mCherry, respectively ( Fig. 3A ). Antibodies against sterol methyltransferase 1 (SMT1), an ER integral membrane protein ( Boutté  et al. , 2010 ), and ADP-ribosylation factor 1 (ARF1), a protein found in the Golgi and the
density gradient centrifugation. Top-down aliquots of fractions as indicated were separated by SDS-PAGE and analysed by western blot using α-GFP to detect AtCML5-YFP, α-RFP to detect ARA6-mCherry, and antibodies against ARF1 and SMT1 to detect endogenous proteins of the Golgi and ER, respectively. ( B ) Extraction of membrane proteins using isolated microsomes from tobacco leaf cells expressing AtCML5-YFP, AtCML5 1–28 -YFP, and ER-mCherry or chloroplasts from tobacco leaf cells expressing AtOEP7-YA. Extraction was performed with 0.5M NaCl, 100mM Na 2 CO 3  (pH 11.5; carbonate), 6M urea, or 2% LDS. Aliquots of supernatant and pellet fractions were separated by SDS-PAGE and proteins were visualized by western blot using tag-specific antibodies. ( C ) Thermolysin treatment of microsomes from tobacco leaf cells expressing AtCML5-YFP, AtCML5 1–28 -YFP, or ER-mCherry. Proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and proteins were visualized by western blot using tag-specific antibodies. An N-terminal signal anchor sequence promotes targeting of AtCML5 to the endomembrane system and its stable association with endosomal membranes In the next step, the question was addressed whether the  in silico  predicted N-terminal targeting signal indeed mediates subcellular targeting. A series of YFP-tagged truncated variants of AtCML5 was generated and their subcellular localization investigated ( Fig.
lacking the first 28 amino acids (AtCML5 28–215 -YFP), which are strongly conserved between AtCML4 and AtCML5 ( Fig. 1 ), showed a uniform fluorescence pattern devoid of any vesicular structures. The pattern is similar to that observed with cytosolic protein ( Fig. 4A , Cyt-YFP), indicating that the protein is no longer targeted into the endomembrane system. By contrast, a variant comprising only the first 28 amino acids of AtCML5 (AtCML5 1–28 -YFP) showed the same spherical pattern as the full-length protein ( Fig. 4A , AtCML5-YFP). These results strongly indicate that the first 28 amino acids of AtCML5 are both essential and sufficient for targeting of the protein into the endomembrane system. Fig. 4. ( A ) Fluorescence analysis of tobacco leaf cell protoplasts transformed with AtCML5-YFP, AtCML5 1–28 -YFP, AtCML5 28–215 -YFP and a cytosolic marker (Cyt-YFP). ( B ) Fluorescence analysis of tobacco leaf cell protoplasts co-transformed with the saGFP pairs AtCML5-saGFP 11  + Cyt-saGFP 1–10 , AtCML4-saGFP 11  + Cyt-saGFP 1–10 , AtCML4-saGFP 11  + AtCML5-saGFP 1–10 , and Cyt-saGFP 1–10  + Cyt-saGFP 11 . The white bar within all images represents 5 µm. The spherical pattern observed for the AtCML5-YFP fluorescence indicates that the protein is associated with the vesicle membrane rather than localized inside the vesicle lumen. In line with this observation, a set of programmes for transmembrane-domain prediction indicated a potential transmembrane helix in the N-terminus of
the targeting sequence ( Supplementary Table S5 ). This region therefore resembles the transmembrane domain of typical single-pass membrane proteins. To confirm the integration of AtCML5 into the membrane, extraction experiments using isolated microsomal fractions from tobacco cells expressing AtCML5-YFP or ER-mCherry (AtWAK2 is a luminal ER protein) were performed. As a control, chloroplast membranes isolated from tobacco cells expressing fluorescence-tagged chloroplast OEP7 from  A. thaliana  (AtOEP7-YA) were used, because OEP7 is also a single-pass membrane protein
11.5) could not extract the majority of the OEP7 protein from the membrane fraction. AtCML5 behaved in a manner very similar to OEP7, with only minor signals observed in the supernatant of the carbonate extraction ( Fig. 3B , AtCML5-YFP). By contrast, AtWAK2 was found in the supernatant after alkaline carbonate treatment ( Fig. 3B , ER-mCherry) because it converts vesicles into sheets and thus releases their soluble content as well as proteins peripherally associated with the membrane. Only
were performed with isolated microsomes from tobacco cells expressing the AtCML5 1–28 -YFP variant and demonstrated a very similar extraction pattern as AtCML5-YFP ( Fig. 3B , AtCML5 1–28 -YFP). Together, these results strongly support AtCML5 as a single-pass membrane protein with an N-terminal signal anchor within its first 28 amino acids. The CaM domain of AtCML5 is exposed on the cytosolic surface The finding that AtCML5 is anchored to the membrane raises the question of whether the C-terminal CaM domain is luminal or exposed to the cytosolic surface. To address this question, isolated microsomes expressing AtCML5-YFP, AtCML5 1–28 -YFP or ER-mCherry were treated with thermolysin before western blot analysis ( Fig. 3C ). Immunodecoration clearly showed that the luminal ER marker protein AtWAK2 is fully protected from degradation by thermolysin. By contrast, both AtCML5-YFP and AtCML5 1–28 -YFP can be degraded by the protease, indicating that the C-terminally fused YFP protein that reacts with the antibody and thus the
a fluorescence signal. To show that this system can mark a specific compartment if one of the partners is integral to the membrane with the saGFP domain exposed to the surface and the other partner is a cytosolic protein, OEP7-saGFP 1–10  was transformed together with Cyt-saGFP 11  into tobacco mesophyll cells. Their co-expression resulted in ring-like fluorescence signals around the chloroplasts ( Supplementary Fig. S1C ). Co-expression of two cytosolic proteins resulted in the characteristic diffuse signal throughout the cell ( Fig. 4B , Cyt-saGFP 1–10  + Cyt-saGFP 11 ). When AtCML5-saGFP 11  was co-transformed with Cyt-saGFP 1–10 , a clear GFP signal could be observed in spherical structures like those observed for AtCML5-YFP (compare  Fig. 4A , AtCML5-YFP with  Fig. 4B , Cyt-saGFP 1–10  + CML5-saGFP 11 ). Co-expression of AtCML4 with the cytosolic marker ( Fig. 4B , Cyt-saGFP 1–10  + AtCML4-saGFP 11 ) or AtCML5 ( Fig. 4B , AtCML5-saGFP 1–10  + AtCML4-saGFP 11 ) also resulted in the typical spherical structures, confirming that AtCML4 and AtCML5 share the
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Material and methods Molecular cloning and construction of expression plasmids 35S-promotor driven transient expression of YFP fusion proteins was performed by  Agrobacterium  infiltration of tobacco leaf cells. To that end, the entire coding sequences of  AT2G43290  ( AtCML5 ),  AT3G59440  ( AtCML4 ), and  At1g66410  ( AtCAM4 ) as well as variants thereof were cloned N-terminally to the YFP sequence into the plant expression vector pBIN19 ( Datla  et al. , 1992 ). For self-assembly GFP (saGFP) analysis ( Cabantous  et al. , 2005 ;  Machettira  et al. , 2011 ), the entire coding sequences of  AT2G43290  and  AT3G59440  as well as different control proteins were cloned into either pBIN19-saGFP 1–10  or pBIN19-saGFP 11  (a kind gift from Dr Stael, formerly of the University of Vienna), thereby creating N-terminal fusions to either the first 10 or the 11th beta-sheet of GFP. At1g66410 (AtCAM4) was used as a cytosolic marker (Cyt-saGFP 1–10  + Cyt-saGFP 11 ) and the chloroplast small outer envelope protein OEP7 ( Mehlmer  et al. , 2012 ) was used to mark the cytosolic surface of chloroplasts (OEP7-saGFP 1–10 ). For transient expression of YFP fusion protein by PEG-mediated transformation of Arabidopsis protoplast under the endogenous promoter, 1754 base pairs of the 5′ UTR of AtCML4 and 1031 base pairs of the 5′ UTR of AtCML5 as well as their respective coding sequences were fused to the YFP coding sequence and cloned into pGREENII ( Hellens  et al. , 2000 ). An overview of all primers used as well as the final constructs is presented in  Supplementary Tables S1 and S2 . Transient expression in
Image processing was performed using the Leica Application Suite for Advanced Fluorescence. For extraction experiments, tobacco leaf cells were also transformed with pBIN-OEP7-YA ( Mehlmer  et al. , 2012 ), a fusion protein with OEP7 that exposes the YFP-aequorin tag to the cytosol. Isolation and transformation of Arabidopsis mesophyll cell protoplasts was performed according to  Yoo  et al.  (2007) . Isolation of microsomal fractions and chloroplasts Microsomal fractions and chloroplasts were
a final concentration of 5mM to stop the reaction. After centrifugation for 10min at 289 000g, the pellets were resuspended in SDS-PAGE sample buffer and analysed by SDS-PAGE and western blotting. Western blot analyses was performed using antisera against RFP and GFP (ChromoTek GmbH, Germany), aequorin (Abcam, UK), as well as SMT1 and Arf1 (Agrisera AB, Sweden). Sequence alignment and phylogenetic tree construction Accession numbers were obtained from the EMBL/GenBank data libraries and are listed in  Supplementary Table S3 .
