ABSTRACT:
related to other  HD2  genes. Transient expression in  Nicotiana benthamiana  and stable expression in  Arabidopsis  of  AtHD2D  fused with  gfp  showed that  AtHD2D  was expressed in the nucleus. Overexpression of  AtHD2D  resulted in developmental changes including fewer main roots, more lateral roots, and a higher root:shoot ratio. Seed germination and plant flowering time were delayed in transgenic plants expressing  AtHD2D , but these plants
RESULTS:
of  AtHD2D-gfp  was found in WT. Expression localization of  HD2D Two software programs, ProtComp and PSORT II Prediction, were used to predict the subcellular location of AtHD2 protein. The HD2D protein was positioned in the cell nucleus but with
peroxisome. AtHD2D also had the lowest integral prediction value. The actual location of the AtHD2D protein was studied via gene expression experiments.  N. benthamiana  leaves were infiltrated with a construct containing  AtHD2D  fused with  gfp
the expression was observed 48–72 h after the infiltration. The  gfp  gene alone driven by CaM35S promoter showed constitutive protein expression activity in plant cells (Figure  3A ). The expression of AtHD2D-GFP was mainly localized in nucleus (Figures  3B,C ). There were halos around the fusion protein, as opposed to clear boundariess which were very sharp and without a fringe or halo, as seen in other AtHD2 proteins. Figure 3
observed. Plants transformed with  gfp  driven by 35S promoter showed constitutive expression in root cells (Figure  3D ). Plants transformed with a construct carrying the fusion  AtHD2D-gfp  showed that GFP was expressed in the nucleus (Figures  3E,F ). Both transient and stable expression studies indicated that the location of AtHD2D is mainly in the cell nucleus. Involvement of AtHD2D in plant growth Seed germination was evaluated for plants
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
 seeds were surface-sterilized in 70% ethanol for 1, 10 min in 10% v/v sodium hypochlorite, and rinsed 5 times with sterile distilled water. The seeds were sown on MS medium (Murashige and Skoog,  1962 ; Sigma-Aldrich, Lenexa, KS, USA) in Petri dishes. The plants were maintained in a tissue culture room with 16 h of light at 25°C/8 h of dark conditions at 22°C. Germinated seedlings were
the NCBI (National Center for Biotechnology Information;  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nucleotide/145360405?report=genbanklog=nucltop ) and TAIR (The  Arabidopsis  Inform- ation Resource ( http://www.arabidopsis.org/servlets/TairObject?type=locus&name=AT2G27840 ) databases. According to the coding sequence, the  35S : AtHD2D  vector for overexpression and  35S:AtHD2D-gfp v ector for HD2D subcellular location were constructed. The  AtHD2D  was amplified using the primer pair of pr1 (5′-ACCAGATCTATGGAG TTTTGGGGTATCGAG-3′) and pr2 (5′- CCACTAGTCTACTTT TTGCAAGAGGGACCAC-3′) and fusion  AtHD2D - gfp  was amplified using the pr1 and pr3 (5′-CCACTAGTCTTTTTGC AAGAGGGACCAC-3′; Supplementary Table  1 ) and all with appropriate restriction sequences ( Bgl II and  Spe I). Phusion high-fidelity DNA polymerase (F-530S, 100U New England Biolabs, Inc. USA) was used in the PCR reaction to minimize undesired mutations in the sequences. The construct for subcellular location of AtHD2D was made by in-frame fusion of complete  AtHD2D  CDS with the  gfp  sequence in which the stop codon (TAG) of  AtHD2D  CDS was deleted. The resulting PCR products were cloned to pGEM®-T and pGEM®-T Easy Vector Systems (A1360 Promega Corporation) digested by  Bgl II and  Spe
selectable marker for plant transformation selection. The constructs were introduced into  Agrobacterium  strain GV3101/pMP90 by electroporation using the GENE PULSER II system (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). Plant transformation The  35S : AtHD2D  vector and  35S:AtHD2D-gfp v ector were introduced into  Arabidopsis  separately for overexpression studies and for subcellular location studies, respectively.  Arabidopsis  transformation followed the floral dip method (Clough and Bent,  1998 ). T1 seeds were harvested, dried at
for 6 days. Root tips were harvested and used for observation.  Nicotiana benthamiana  were grown as described by Han et al. ( 2013 ), and plants were maintained in growth chambers for investigating the subcellular localization of HD2D-GFP in transient gene expression experiments. The chamber conditions were set at 14 h light and 10 h dark at 21°C. Young leaves were infiltrated with  Agrobacterium  GV3101/pMP90 containing the  HD2D-gfp  construct and observations were conducted 48–72 h after infiltration. Molecular analysis of plants Total genomic DNA was extracted from plant leaves using a CTAB method as described by Wang et al. ( 1993 ). Total RNA was isolated
 gene for a 563 bp PCR product (Supplementary Table  1 ) were used in PCR analysis of plants. The pr1 and pr2 primers specific for  HD2D , and the pr1 and pr3 primers specific for  HD2D-gfp  were also used in PCR analysis. The primer for the  Actin2  gene of  Arabidopsis  (Czechowski et al.,  2004 ) was used as an internal control. All PCR reactions were performed with 1 unit
under salt stress gradually turned yellow and wilted. When 50% leaf area had turned yellow the leaf was recorded as withered leaves. Detection of GFP signals by confocal laser scanning microscopy Transient expression and stable expression of 35S:GFP and 35S:AtHD2D-GFP fusion protein in  N. benthamiana  leaves and  Arabidopsis  root tips were detected using laser fluorescence microscopy (Sparkes et al.,  2006 ). Photographs were taken using a confocal florescent microscope (Leica Microsystems, Germany) under excitation
