ABSTRACT:
sieve tubes are released into the apoplasmic space between the sieve element/companion cell complex (SE/CC) and phloem parenchyma cells (PPCs) during the process of long-distance transport. The competition for sugar acquisition between SE/CC and adjoining PPCs is mediated by plasma membrane translocators. YFP-tagged AtSWEET4 protein is localized in the plasma membrane, and Promoter AtSWEET4 -GUS  analysis showed that  AtSWEET4  is expressed in the stele of roots and veins of leaves and flowers. Overexpression of  AtSWEET4  in  Arabidopsis  increases plant size and accumulates more
RESULTS:
7 15 18 .  VvSWEET4 , the closest homolog of  AtSWEET4  in grapevine, was demonstrated to encode a plasma membrane protein 21 . To investigate the cellular localization of AtSWEET4, we made a 35S Pro - AtSWEET4-YFP  construct and transfected the isolated  Arabidopsis  protoplasts. Confocal imaging of AtSWEET4-YFP fusion protein indicated that AtSWEET4 is located in the plasma membrane ( Fig. 6A ). Bright field showed the intact protoplasts ( Fig. 6B ), and the red-fluorescence indicated the positions of chloroplasts ( Fig. 6C ). The merged
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
media (1/2 MS salts) supplemented without or with indicated concentration of sugars. Photos of seedlings were taken at the indicated time and germination rates were determined in duplicate with 30 seeds for each line per assay. Generation of  AtSWEET4  RNA-interference
binary vector containing the  AtSWEET4  promoter fragment and  GUS  gene was transformed into wild-type Col-0 plants using  A. tumefaciens  strain GV3101 and floral dip method 31 . Transgenic plants were identified on 1/2 MS media containing 50 μg mL −1
7.2) for 5 min each. Staining strength was controlled by modulating incubation time at 37 °C. After staining, tissues were cleared by placing in 70% and 90% (v/v) ethanol for several times as necessary. For constructing the 35S promoter controlled  AtSWEET4-YFP  construct, the full length of  AtSWEET4  cDNA was amplified by high fidelity KOD polymerase, the PCR fragment was cut with  Xho I and  ECo RI and inserted into the same sites of pSAT6 -YFP  vector.  Arabidopsis  protoplasts were isolated following the methods as described 33 . The pSAT6 -AtSWEET4-YFP  construct was transiently expressed in the protoplasts by polyethylene glycerol (PEG)-mediated transformation as described 34 . YFP fluorescence was detected using a ZEISS-510 Meta confocal microscope, the images were coded yellow for YFP and red for chlorophyll autofluorescence.
