ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
the identity of the ABA-induced GFP-GEF1 particles. We investigated the co-localization of GFP-GEF1 in  N .  benthamiana  leaves with mCherry labeled organelle markers [ 35 ]. No co-localization or sparse overlap was observed with mitochondrial, peroxisomal, ER, and  cis -Golgi markers (Figs  2A  and  S3A ), indicating that GFP-GEF1 proteins were not sequestered into these endomembrane systems in response to ABA. In comparison, overlap of the GFP and mCherry signals was observed in co-localization analysis with the retromer marker SNX1 [ 36 ] and the prevacuolar compartment (PVC) markers BP-80 [ 37 ] and VPS45
proteins, FLAGELLIN SENSITIVE2 (FLS2), the brassinosteroid receptor BRI1, and the auxin efflux carrier PIN2 are internalized rapidly from the plasma membrane and sequentially delivered into the vacuole via the late endosome [ 39 – 41 ], we speculated that GFP-GEF1 proteins were also subjected to this process in response to ABA. In line with this hypothesis, ABA-induced GFP-GEF1 particle formation was sensitive to Wortmannin ( Fig 2B ), a phosphatidylphosphate-3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor that interferes with vesicle trafficking from the plasma membrane to the prevacuolar compartment [ 42 , 43 ]. GFP-GEF1 particles accumulated into typical Wortmannin-induced intracellular ring-like structures ( Fig 2B ) [ 44 , 45 ]. In addition,
). The above analysis suggested that GFP-GEF1 proteins are relocated to the prevacuolar compartment via an endosome–prevacuolar compartment pathway in response to ABA. RopGEF1 Is Degraded in Response to ABA Proteins in the prevacuolar compartment are further transported into vacuoles through membrane fusion and are subsequently subjected to either storage or degradation [ 49 ]. To trace the fate of GFP-GEF1, we carried
proteasome in this degradation response. Furthermore, confocal microscopic observations indicated that ABA-mediated GFP-GEF1 particles showed co-localization with the vacuolar marker γ-TIP ( S3B Fig ) [ 50 , 51 ]. Taken together, we concluded that GFP-GEF1 is sequestered to vacuoles and is degraded in response to ABA. 10.1371/journal.pbio.1002461.g003 Fig 3 GEF1 protein is degraded in response to ABA treatment. Western
also ROP11 but not OST1 co-immunoprecipitated with GST-GEF1 ( Fig 4B ). Next, we pursued bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays to investigate putative interactions between GEF1 and PP2Cs in plant cells. Surprisingly, numerous fluorescent particles were detected in the cytosol ( S4A Fig ). Quantitative analyses of BiFC signals showed strong ABI1-GEF1 interactions and weak signals for GEF1 interaction with other clade A PP2Cs ( S4A and S4B Fig ), which correlated with
Confocal microscopic observations indicated that these particles partially aggregated into ring-like structures 1 h after Wortmannin treatment ( S6A Fig ). After prolonged Wortmannin exposure of GFP-GEF1/ abi1abi2hab1pp2ca  plants, GFP-GEF1 fluorescence signals appeared in the cell periphery and perinuclear region ( S6B Fig ). This cellular localization pattern resembled that of subcellular localization GFP-GEF1 in the wild-type background in the absence of ABA ( S1A–S1C Fig
intracellular fluorescent bodies ( S6C Fig ). These observations are consistent with the lack of the expression of the vacuolar TIP markers in these developing new  Arabidopsis  root tip cells that have been proposed to lack lytic vacuoles at this developmental stage [ 54 , 55 ]. We next investigated GFP-GEF1 protein levels in GFP-GEF1/ abi1abi2hab1pp2ca  plants by western blotting. Although GEF1 mRNA levels were abundant in GFP-GEF1/ abi1abi2hab1pp2ca  plants (Figs  5B  and
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
after infiltration, the leaves were injected with 50 μM ABA or control buffer (0.1% v/v EtOH) and GEF1 fluorescence confocal imaging was conducted 1 h after injection or at the indicated times. Protoplast Preparation and Vacuole Release GFP-GEF1 and mCherry-γ-TIP constructs were co-expressed in  N .  benthamiana  leaves, and ABA was applied as described above. At 48 h after transfection, mesophyll protoplasts from  N .  benthamiana  leaves were isolated by enzymatic
for fluorescence detection: excitation 488 nm and emission 490–530 nm for GFP; excitation 488 nm and emission 520–550 for YFP; excitation 543 nm and emission 560–620 nm for mCherry and FM4-64; excitation 350 nm and emission 430–480 nm for DAPI. For co-localization analyses, GFP and mCherry fluorescence signals were acquired using the sequential line scanning mode to avoid bleed-through. Confocal imaging data were repeated at least in three independent experiments. For each condition and each experiment, at least five
according to [ 82 ]. Bound proteins were eluted, fractionated by 10% SDS-PAGE, and subjected to immune-blot analysis using  Strep -Tactin HRP conjugate (IBA, Göttingen, Germany). For western blot assays, 10-d-old  Arabidopsis  seedlings grown on 1/2 MS medium were transferred to 1/2 MS liquid media for 1 h followed
4°C; the supernatant was transferred to new tubes. Protein concentration was determined using the Bradford protein assay kit (IBI Scientific, Peosta, US). 20 μg proteins were separated on 10% SDS-PAGE gel, blotted onto a nitrocellulose membrane (Milli-pore), probed with anti-GFP antibody (Life Technology) overnight at 4°C, and then incubated with a goat anti-rabbit HRP-conjugated secondary antibody (Bio-Rad) for 1 h at room temperature. Membranes were incubated with chemiluminescence reaction
Rockford, US) and western blot signal was detected using a typhoon Imager FLA 7000 (GE healthcare, Pittsburgh, US). Co-IP Analyses Agrobacterium  cells containing RK19 (to reduce the silencing of transgenes) were mixed with those containing  pUBQ - Flag-GFP-GEF1  or  pUBQ - myc-mCherry-PP2C  constructs at a ratio of 1:1. Subsequently, the mixture was co-injected into  N .  benthamiana  leaves. At 48 h after infiltration,  N .  benthamiana  leaves were
Select Master Mix for CFX (Applied Biosystems) with gene-specific primers. GEF1fwd: tgcttgccgaaatggagattccc; GEF1rev: agacattccttcccgctcttgg; GAPCfwd: tcagactcgagaaagctgctac; GAPCrev: cgaagtcagttgagacaacatcatc. Seed Germination and Root Elongation Assays After surface sterilization of the seeds, 70 seeds of each genotype were sowed on 1/2 MS plates supplemented with ABA. Stratification was conducted in the dark at 4°C for 3 d. Radical
of seeds. For root elongation assays, seeds were stratified for 3 d in the dark at 4°C (for experiments including  abi1abi2hab1pp2ca  quadruple mutant, all seeds were stratified for 10 d), sown, and grown on vertically oriented 1/2 MS plates for 4 d. Twenty seedlings with similar primary root length were transferred onto new 1/2 MS plates lacking or supplemented
