ABSTRACT:
physiological processes, which include intracellular signal transduction. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms of such controls and numerous substrates of protein kinases remain to be characterized. The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade is of particular importance in a variety of extracellular and intracellular signaling processes. In plant cells, the progression of cytokinesis is an excellent example of an intracellular phenomenon that requires the MAPK cascade. However, the way in which MAPKs control downstream processes during cytokinesis in plant cells remains
RESULTS:
lines.  Fig. 3 Analysis of the expression of PATL2. (A) Total protein extracted from wild-type and mutant siblings was subjected to SDS–PAGE, and the PATL2 protein was detected with PATL2-specific antibodies (upper panel). The membrane was stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue (CBB; lower panel). Note that the relative molecular mass of the detected band was larger than the estimated size of 76.0 kDa, maybe because of the presence of many acidic amino acid residues
phenylalanine, respectively). We monitored the fluorescence of GFP in root tissue by confocal laser scanning microscopy ( Fig. 6 ). We detected fluorescence due to PATL2–G3GFP mainly at the cell periphery, which suggested the presence of PATL2 at the plasma membrane or at the cell wall at the cell boundary. However, fluorescence due to PATL2–G3GFP was not uniformly distributed to all cell boundaries in the division zone: signals from the apical and basal (horizontal) planes of cell division were much
cells. Most of the fluorescent signals due to mRFP–PATL2 were observed at the cell boundaries and at the cell plate (arrowhead in  Fig. 7 A), while fluorescence due to mRFP alone was distributed over the entire cytoplasm and nucleus, with the exception of vacuoles ( Fig. 7 B). Examination of plasmolyzed cells revealed that signals due to mRFP–PATL2 were concentrated at the plasma membrane, as opposed to the cell wall ( Fig. 7 C, D). Immunofluorescence staining of MTs confirmed that mRFP–PATL2 was concentrated at the equatorial plane of phragmoplasts between sets of separating daughter chromosomes during cytokinesis ( Fig. 7 E). 
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
were fractionated by isoelectric focusing and SDS–PAGE as described above. Gels were stained with Deep Purple™ (GE Healthcare). Spots of interest were excised with an Ettan Spot Picker (GE Healthcare), digested with trypsin in situ, and then analyzed by MALDI-TOF/MS with a Voyager system (Applied Biosystems;  http://www.appliedbiosystems.com/ ). Production of antibodies and immunodetection of proteins Antibodies against PATL2 were raised by immunizing rabbits with the synthetic peptide CDDLVSEDLEGSEFC (residues 399–411 of PALT2), which was synthesized and affinity-purified by
cDNA was transferred to various destination vectors by LR® clonase (Life Technologies). For expression of GST-fused and MBP-fused PATL2 in  E. coli , pDEST17 and pDESTMAL, derived from pMAL-c5X, were used as destination vectors, respectively. Two types of fluorescent proteins were fused to PATL2: G3GFP, which has two amino acid substitutions (Ser65 and Tyr145) with alanine and phenylalanine, respectively ( Kawakami and Watanabe 1997 ), and mRFP. For expression of these fusion genes, a series of pGWB plasmids was used as destination vectors (
