ABSTRACT:
thaliana sad1  mutant has a mutation of sm-like protein 5 (LSM5) and shows impaired drought and salt stress tolerances. The  lsm5 / sad1  mutant also showed hypersensitivity to heat stress. GFP-fused LSM5/SAD1 was localized in the nucleus under optimal growth conditions. After heat stress treatment, GFP-fused LSM5/SAD1 fluorescence was also observed as small cytoplasmic dots, in addition to nuclear localization. Whole genome transcriptome analysis revealed that many genes in  Arabidopsis  were drastically changed in response to heat stress. More heat-responsive genes were highly expressed in  lsm5 / sad1  mutant at both 2 and 6
RESULTS:
LSM5/SAD1-GFP fusion protein, because a subset of Sm-like proteins in  Arabidopsis  forms cytoplasmic foci in response to stress ( Perea-Resa et al., 2012 ). GFP fluorescence in pro LSM5/SAD1 ::LSM5/SAD1-GFP transgenic plants was mainly observed in the nucleus under optimal growth conditions. After heat stress treatment, the nuclear localization of LSM5/SAD1-GFP did not change. However, LSM5/SAD1-GFP fluorescence was also observed as small cytoplasmic dots ( Figure  2C ). By contrast, GFP fluorescence in  35S ::GFP transgenic plants was observed in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus before and after heat stress ( Figure  2C ). These results indicated that the LSM5/SAD1 protein mainly functions in nucleus, but the distribution of a fraction of
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
et al., 2008 ). PCR products were loaded on 1% high-resolution gels and visualized using ethidium bromide. The primer sets and PCR conditions are shown in Supplementary Table  S5 . Transgenic Plants To generate transgenic plant expressing GFP-tagged LSM5/SAD1 under the control of the  LSM5/SAD1  promoter, the genomic sequence for  LSM5/SAD1  ( At5g48870 ) containing a 2911bp region upstream of the start codon and excluding the stop codon was amplified by PCR using
5′- CACC GCGAATCATCGTCACTCTCAGTCG-3′ and 5′-TTCTCCATCTTCGGGAGACCCACCT-3′. The underlined sequence in the primer indicates the adaptor site for the pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Thermo Fisher Scientific). The PCR fragment was cloned into the vector and subsequently cloned into the binary vector pGWB3 (C-terminal GFP fusion) using the Gateway LR reaction system (Thermo Fisher Scientific). The resulting plasmid was electroporated into  Agrobacterium tumefaciens  strain GV3101 and introduced into  lsm5/sad1  mutant plants by the floral-dipping method. To generate transgenic plants constitutively expressing GFP, the  GFP  sequence, with a stop codon, was cloned into the binary vector pGWB2 (under control of the 35S promoter). The plasmid was introduced into the wild-type as described above. Binary vectors pGWB2 and pGWB3 were reported previously ( Nakagawa et al., 2007 ). T1 transgenic plants were selected with kanamycin and hygromycin. Approximately 20 independent transgenic lines were grown on soil. Homozygous T3 lines were used for GFP observation and detection of the SAD-GFP fusion protein. Immunoblot Analysis Seedlings were ground in liquid nitrogen and extracted in a buffer containing 100 mM Tris-HCl (pH8.0), 0.5% SDS, 10% glycerol and 2% β-mercaptoethanol. Extracts were heated for 5 min at 95°C, and clear lysates were
centrifugation. The amount of extracted protein was determined using a Quick Start TM  Bradford assay (Bio-Rad). After the extracted proteins were heated with SDS sample buffer, 20 μg of total protein was subjected to SDS-PAGE. To detect the LSM5/SAD1-GFP fusion protein, polyclonal rabbit anti-GFP antibodies (Thermo Fisher Scientific, A11122) and horseradish peroxidase-conjugated antibodies against rabbit IgG (GE Healthcare) were used. The ECL western-blotting detection system was used to detect the chemiluminescent signal (GE Healthcare) as described previously ( Myouga et al., 2008 ). Microscopy Analysis Transgenic seedlings grown at 22°C were subjected to 37°C for 6 h. GFP fluorescence was observed in the hypocotyl tissues before and after heat stress treatments using confocal laser scanning microscopy (LSM510 Meta; Zeiss). The excitation and emission wavelengths for GFP were 488 nm and 505–530 nm, respectively. Chlorophyll self-fluorescence was detected using a 560 nm long pass filter. Whole-Genome Tiling Array Analysis The  Arabidopsis  whole-genome tiling array set
