ABSTRACT:
cells of aerial organs, in agreement with the place of cuticle deposition. Furthermore, transient AtLTP2-TagRFP over-expression in  Nicotiana benthamiana  leaf epidermal cells resulted in its localization to the cell wall, as expected, but surprisingly also to the plastids, indicating an original dual trafficking for a nsLTP. Remarkably, in etiolated hypocotyls, the  atltp2-1  mutant displayed modifications in cuticle permeability together with a disorganized ultra-structure at the cuticle-cell wall interface completely recovered in complemented lines, whereas only
RESULTS:
3.8 pKa especially well-adapted to fluorescence emission in various cell compartments including at the acidic pH of the cell wall compartment ( Albenne et al., 2014 ). FIGURE 3 AtLTP2-TagRFP is dually targeted to the cell wall and the plastids.  The fusion protein AtLTP2-TagRFP displayed in  (A)  was produced together with the plasma membrane (PM) marker PIP2A-YFP in  Nicotiana benthamiana  leaves. Detached leaves were observed under hypotonic  (B–G)  or hypertonic  (H–M)  conditions. The Tag-RFP fluorescence signal is false-colored in magenta in the left column. The PM and the plastid markers (chlorophyll auto-fluorescence) are false-colored in green in the second column and the merge is presented in white in the right column. Note that under plasmolysis, the AtLTP2-TagRFP fluorescence in the cell wall is excluded from the PM fluorescence of PIP2A-YFP and that the additional co-localization of AtLTP2-TagRFP fluorescence with the chlorophyll auto-fluorescence indicates its plastid localization. Scale bars: 50 μm. A specific TagRFP fluorescence signal was observed at the cell periphery, but was difficult to distinguish from the co-transformed PIP2A-YFP plasma membrane marker ( Nelson et al., 2007 ) ( Figures  3B–D ). To overcome this difficulty, the detached transformed leaves were plasmolysed in 0.5 M mannitol, allowing the distinction between the peripheral fluorescence of the AtLTP2-TagRFP fusion protein and
hypotonic and hypertonic conditions ( Figures  3E–G,K–M ). In addition,  AtLTP2  fused to the YFP coding sequence was transiently expressed in  N. benthamiana  leaves (Supplementary Figure  S3 ). AtLTP2-YFP was strongly visualized in plastids, thus confirming this unexpected localization (Supplementary Figure  S3 ). However, certainly due to the YFP instability in the cell wall acidic compartment (pKa 6.9;  Albenne et al., 2014 ), AtLTP2-YFP fluorescence was not detected in cell wall contrary to that of AtLTP2-TagRFP. Altogether, these results showed that AtLTP2 had an original dual localization to the cell wall and the plastids. To further clarify the mechanism of AtLTP2 transport to the plastids, AtLTP2-TagRFP was produced in  N. benthamiana  leaves in the presence of Brefeldin A (BFA), a drug used to prevent the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-to-Golgi trafficking ( Daskalova et al., 2010 ). In presence of BFA ( Figure  4 ), the AtLTP2-TagRFP fluorescence was strictly restricted to the ER-Golgi hybrid and BFA compartments ( Nebenführ et al., 2002 ;  Ritzenthaler et al., 2002 ). It co-localized with the sp-YFP-HDEL marker of the ER compartment ( Nelson et al., 2007 ) suggesting that AtLTP2-TagRFP was redistributed in the oversized ER-Golgi modified structures as previously described ( Ritzenthaler et al., 2002 ). In the control experiment without BFA, AtLTP2-TagRFP was still observed in the cell wall and in plastids (Supplementary Figure  S4 ). In presence of BFA, AtLTP2-TagRFP was no longer localized to the cell wall and to plastids suggesting that AtLTP2 needed to go through the ER/Golgi apparatus to reach these two compartments. Therefore, it was assumed that the full length AtLTP2 pre-protein was first targeted to the secretory pathway thanks to its signal peptide, prior to be sorted to both the cell wall and plastids. FIGURE 4 The secretory pathway is involved in both cell wall and plastids  At LTP2-TagRFP localization.  The AtLTP2-TagRFP fusion protein was produced together with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) marker sp-YFP-HDEL in  N. benthamiana  leaves which were subjected to Brefeldin A (BFA) treatment. The AtLTP2-TagRFP fluorescence signal is false-colored in magenta in  (A,D,G) . The bright-field  (B)  is displayed to visualize the cell morphology. ER marker  (E)  and chlorophyll auto-fluorescence  (H)  are false-colored in green and the merge is presented in white in the right column  (C,F,I) . Note that in presence of BFA, AtLTP2-TagRFP fluorescence is restricted to the ER-Golgi hybrid and BFA compartments. Scale bars: 40 μm. Reduced Expression of  AtLTP2  Leads to an Increase in Cuticle Permeability without Major Modification of the Cuticle Lipid Profile According to (i) the
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
the relative gene expression levels using the 2 -ΔΔCT  method ( Livak and Schmittgen, 2001 ). Significant differences were assessed by a Student’s  t -test. Cell Wall Purification, Extraction of Proteins, and Identification of AtLTP2 by MALDI-TOF MS Cell wall purification and extraction of proteins were performed as described ( Feiz et al., 2006 ) with 5 g of etiolated hypocotyls and cotyledons. Proteins were dialysed and concentrated by successive centrifugation using the Amicon Ultra-15 centrifugal
10 . Proteins were separated by denaturing 1D-E using 12.5% (m/v) polyacrylamide gel. Proteins were stained with Coomassie TM  Brilliant Blue ( Scheler et al., 1998 ). Colored bands around 9.6 kDa were sampled and digested with trypsin. MALDI-TOF MS analyses were performed as reported ( Boudart et al., 2005 ). Transient Transformation of  N. benthamiana  Plants for Sub-cellular Localization of AtLTP2 To generate the  AtLTP2-TagRFP  construct, the  A. thaliana  full-length cDNA  AtLTP2  clone (pda02841) was ordered at the RIKEN Genomic Sciences Complex (RIKEN 11 ;  Seki et al., 2002 ). It was amplified by PCR using the primers listed in Supplementary Table  S1  (AttB1-At2g38530-F and Spacer-At2g38530-R). The  TagRFP  coding sequence was amplified separately from the pTagRFP-C vector (FP141, Evrogen, Euromedex, Souffelweyersheim, France) with the sense and AS primers (Spacer-TarRFP-F and AttB2-TagRFP-stop listed in Supplementary Table  S1 ). Both the  AtLTP2 and the TagRFP  PCR products were fused by the overlap extension PCR method and the corresponding fused DNA product was amplified with the primers listed in Supplementary Table  S1  (attB1-F-adapter and attB2-R-adapter). Then, it was cloned into the entry
leaves of 3-week-old plants were infiltrated at their abaxial side with the bacterial suspension(s). In the case of co-infiltration of two bacterial suspensions carrying different constructs, a ratio of 2/1 was used [TagRFP-construct/YFP-tagged organelle markers for plasma membrane (pm-yb CD3-1006) or ER (ER-yb CD3-958)] ( Nelson et al., 2007 ).  Nicotiana benthamiana  plants were kept in the growth chamber room until observation 48 h after infiltration. An upright confocal laser scanning microscope (LEICA SP2 AOBS 13 ) using a 40 x apochromatic water immersion lens was used to visualized YFP fluorescence (excitation: 488 nm; emission: 514–551 nm), TagRFP fluorescence (excitation: 561 nm; emission: 582–622 nm), and chlorophyll auto-fluorescence (excitation: 488 nm; emission: 680–720 nm).
of WT,  atltp2-1 , and complemented lines (5′2 and 14′3) seedlings were put in Petri dishes. They were placed in a 25°C oven and weighted with a precision balance during a 3 h kinetics to monitor water-loss. Dry mass was measured after
