ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
from short and globular to long and narrow protrusions from the chloroplast body. Unlike ADT1–ADT5, ADT6 did not localize to chloroplasts, but was mostly present in the cytosol ( Fig. 2A , bottom panel). Fig. 2. Subcellular localization of ADT–FP fusion proteins and co-localization with TP-ssRuBisCO–YFP. (A) ADT–CFP subcellular localization patterns. ADT1–ADT5 localized to stroma and to areas seemingly close to the chloroplast just outside of the autofluorescence signal generated by chlorophyll. They often appear either in thread-like structures (e.g. the arrow in ADT2) or globular structures (e.g. the arrows in ADT4). The ADT6–CFP pattern is distinctly different, showing a cytosolic distribution. Images were taken at a lower magnification to allow observation of the CFP signal relative to several chloroplasts. (B) Close-ups of ADT–CFP subcellular localization patterns in relation to TP-ssRuBisCO–YFP. In contrast to the chlorophyll autofluorescence, the TP-ssRuBisCO–YFP is a stroma-specific marker that visualizes all stroma-filled areas within the chloroplast including stromules. ADT1–ADT5 are found within the main body of chloroplast and in stromules, while ADT6 is found within the cytosol and does not co-localize with TP-ssRuBisCO–YFP. We hypothesized that the thread-like and globular structures were stromules ( Köhler and Hanson, 2000 ). To confirm that ADTs do localize to stromules, the  ADT–CFP  fusion constructs were co-expressed with
the fluorescence of TP-ssRuBisCO–YFP, which confirms that these ADTs are targeted to stromules within the chloroplasts ( Fig. 2B ). The fluorescence of ADT6–CFP did not overlap with the fluorescence of TP-ssRuBisCO–YFP as ADT6 is mostly found within the cytosol ( Fig. 2B , bottom panel). To determine if the TP domain of ADTs is responsible for chloroplast and stromule localization, the TP sequence was expressed as a TP-ADT2–CFP fusion protein and was detected in chloroplasts and stromules (
rings ( Fig. 5E ). These results demonstrate that deregulation of ADT2 abolishes proper placement of FtsZ2, further supporting an involvement of ADT2 in chloroplast division. ADT5 is found in the nucleus In addition to its chloroplast localization, only ADT5–CFP was also detected in nuclei at ~4–5 dpi ( Figs 2A ,  6A ). To confirm this finding, ADT5–CFP was co-infiltrated with a YFP fusion to the nuclear marker NUP1, a component of the nuclear pore complex in  A. thaliana  that was previously shown to localize to the nuclear membrane ( Lu  et al. , 2010 ). Confocal imaging determined that NUP1–YFP localized around ADT5–CFP ( Fig. 6B ). As NUP1–YFP localizes to the nuclear membrane, this result confirms that ADT5–CFP is contained within the nucleus and localizes uniformly throughout the nucleoplasm. As these results were obtained with constructs using a CaMV  35S  promoter, we repeated the experiment and expressed ADT5–CFP under control of its native promoter ( Fig. 6C ) and confirmed the nuclear localization pattern. To ensure that the observed nuclear localization is not due to a smaller diffusible cleavage product or to a particularly high level of
35S  promoter shows a low level of cleavage in all lanes. However, more cleavage product is seen for ADT1 and ADT3 compared with ADT5, while no nuclear localization is observed with either ADT1 or ADT3. The blot showing ADT5–CFP under the control of its native promoter ( Fig. 6D ) shows a shadow band of the size of CFP, and yet a very clear nuclear localization is evident ( Fig. 6C ). These results indicate that the nuclear localization pattern is a  bona fide  ADT5 localization. There are additional bands of higher molecular weight ( Fig. 5D ; Supplementary Fig. S2) that might correspond to ADT dimers or even higher multimers. Fig. 6. ADT5 is found in the nucleus. ADT5–CFP proteins are unique as they are the only full-length ADT proteins that were found in the nucleus. (A) Nuclei show a close association with chloroplasts (left) or with stromules of chloroplasts (right). Both images show ADT5–CFP within nuclei. (B) Co-localization of ADT5–CFP with NUP1–YFP. To determine if ADT5–CFP localizes to the nucleus, it was co-expressed with NUP1–YFP in  N. benthamiana . Images of chlorophyll fluorescence and ADT5–CFP are shown merged (left). NUP1–YFP is shown alone (middle) and merged with ADT5–CFP and chlorophyll fluorescence (right). NUP1–YFP localizes to the nuclear membrane and surrounds ADT5–CFP, confirming that it localizes to the nucleus. (C) ADT5–CFP transiently expressed with its native  ADT5  promoter also localizes to the nucleus. (D) Western blot of ADT5–CFP (calculated size 73.9 kDa) expressed with its native promoter and visualized with a GFP antibody is detected at its expected size. As negative controls, proteins isolated from leaves transformed with GFP (25 kDa) and p19 are shown. Total soluble protein was isolated from transiently transformed leaves, and 10 μg of total soluble protein was size separated by 10% SDS–PAGE. Sizes of the protein ladder are given in kDa. Furthermore, we often observed ADT5–CFP-containing nuclei surrounded by chloroplasts that appeared to be connected to the nucleus through stromules ( Fig. 6A ), suggesting that ADT5 nuclear localization depends on stromule-mediated transport. To test if stromule formation affects the nuclear localization of ADT5, we
both myosin domains affect stromule formation. Fig. 7.  The presence of ADT5 in the nucleus is affected by the ability to form stromules. To determine if nuclear localization of ADT5 is dependent on stromules, plants were co-infiltrated with TP-ADT2–CFP (A and B) as a control or ADT5–CFP (C) and an empty vector (dark gray), dominant negative myosin XI-2 (dnMyoXI-2; light gray) and myosin XI-K (dnMyoXI-K/GTD; white),
transformed with an empty vector, dnMyoXI-2, and dnMyoXI-K/GTD, respectively. (B) Average length of stromules. A total of 166, 93, and 91 stromules were measured from plants transformed with an empty vector, dnMyoXI-2, and dnMyoXI-K/GTD, respectively. (C) Nuclear localization of ADT5–CFP. Cells were analyzed for CFP fluorescence in the nucleus only if any ADT5–CFP fluorescence was detectable. A total of 131, 190, and 358 cells were analyzed from plants transformed with an empty vector, dnMyoXI-2, and dnMyoXI-K/GTD, respectively. Each experiment was performed on three independent occasions. Significant differences ( P <0.001) as determined by a one-way ANOVA (multiple comparisons) are indicated by different letters. Averages ± SE of the mean are plotted. To determine if the ability to form stromules affects nuclear localization of ADT5,  ADT5–CFP  was co-expressed with the empty pCB vector,  dnMyoXI-2 , or  dnMyoXI-K/GTD  ( Fig. 7C ). The extent of ADT5–CFP nuclear localization was expressed as a percentage of cells containing CFP fluorescence. Co-infiltration with the empty vector control showed that 25.9% of cells had ADT5–CFP fluorescence visible in the nucleus ( Fig. 7C ). In contrast, co-infiltration with  dnMyoXI-2  or  dnMyoXI-K/GTD  showed that ADT5–CFP was detected in the nucleus in only 7.1% and 4.3% of cells, respectively ( Fig. 7C ), both significant reductions ( P <0.001) from the control. These data demonstrate that ADT5–CFP nuclear localization is decreased by the same conditions shown to decrease stromule formation.   ADTs in  A. thaliana  Transient transformations using agroinfiltration are widely used in  N. benthamiana  but have traditionally been difficult in
that localization in a heterologous host reflected the situation in the native environment ( Fig. 8 ). As in  N. benthamiana , all ADT–CFPs in  A. thaliana , with the exception of ADT6–CFP, which appeared in the cytosol, exhibited stroma and stromule-like patterns ( Fig. 8A ). Similarly, the unique localization patterns of ADT2–CFP and ADT5–CFP were observed in  A. thaliana , localizing to the equatorial plane and poles of chloroplasts ( Fig. 8B ), and to nuclei ( Fig. 8C ), respectively. This finding was important as it verifies that the findings in
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
that is unable to respond to phenylalanine-mediated allosteric inhibition ( Huang  et al. , 2010 ). Cloning of ADT–CFP fusion constructs Primers were designed ( Table 1 ) to amplify full-length  A. thaliana ADT  genes ( ADT1 ,  At1g11790 ;  ADT2 ,  At3g07630 ;  ADT3 ,  At2g27820 ;  ADT4 ,
( Cho  et al. , 2007 ). Table 1. List of primer sequences   Name   a     Sequence (5'–3' ) b   Restriction enzyme recognition sequence   CFP-For   AT   CGGACCG GTCGCCACC ATGGTGAGCAAGG   Cpo I CFP-Rev   TCA   TCTAGA TTACTTGTA CAGCTCGTCC   Xba I CFP-Seq GATCTGAGCTACACATGC N/A ADT1-F   AAGCTT ATGGCTCTGAGGTGTTTTC   Hin dIII ADT1-R   GGATCC TGTCTGACTAGATCCATTGG   Bam HI ADT2-F   AAGCTT ATGGCAATGCACACTGTTCG   Hin dIII ADT2-S   AAGCTT ATGCGTGTTGCGT ATCAGGGAGTACG   Hin dIII
  CTCGAG ATGCAAACCATTTCGCC   Xho I ADT5-R   CCCGGG TTACGTCTTCGCTAG   Sma I ADT6-F   GAATTC ATGAAAGCTCTATCATC   Eco RI ADT6-R   GGATCC ATCGATGAAGTTGATG   Bam HI   a  CFP-For/Rev, amplify cerulean cyan fluorescent protein sequence; CFP-Seq, pCB sequencing primer; F, complementary to the 5' end of the full-length  ADT  coding sequence; S, complementary to the 5' end
pCB. Using the appropriate restriction enzymes,  ADT  genes were cloned into pCB, and all resulting pCB-ADT vectors were sequenced to ensure proper fusion and sequence integrity of the  ADT–CFP  sequences. To clone the native  ADT5  promoter (proNat5), 1 kb upstream of the  ADT5  start codon was PCR amplified with primers that added a 5'  Mau BI and a 3'  Xho I restriction site. The amplified  Mau BI– Xho I fragment was used to replace the CaMV  35S  promoter in pCB-ADT5, generating the vector proNat5::ADT5:CFP. Cloning filamentous temperature sensitive Z2 (FtsZ2)–yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) The Gateway-compatible vector pLIC6 encoding  FtsZ2-1  cDNA was obtained from the ABRC (stock number DKLAT2G36250;  Popescu  et al. , 2007 ). Restriction digest of pLIC6 with  Hin dIII yielded a 2329 bp restriction fragment
 Ase I and the expected 2608 bp fragment encoding  FtsZ2-1  flanked by  att L sites was isolated and recombined into the destination vector pEarleygate101 ( Earley  et al. , 2006 ), generating an  FtsZ2–YFP  fusion construct with expression regulated by the CaMV  35S  promoter. Bacterial transformations Plasmid DNA was isolated from overnight  E. coli  cultures using
tumefaciens  LBA4404 containing Ti-helper plasmid pAL4404 ( Hoekema  et al. , 1983 ;  Hellens  et al. , 2000 ). Organelle markers To identify stromules, the TP of the small subunit of tobacco RuBisCO fused to YFP (TP-ssRuBisCO–YFP;  Nelson  et al. , 2007 ) was used in co-localization experiments. This fusion construct is under the control of a CaMV  35S  promoter and, after translation, the TP guides the fusion protein to the chloroplast stroma where it can be used to identify stromules ( Nelson  et al. , 2007 ). The T-DNA-containing binary vector pEarleygate301-YFP, encoding  A. thaliana NUCLEOPORIN1  fused to  YFP  ( NUP1–YFP ) is under the expression of its native promoter ( Lu  et al. , 2010 ) and was used as a nuclear marker.   Agrobacterium tumefaciens  GV3101 containing pCB302 encoding the dominant negative form of either
post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS;  Silhavy  et al. , 2002 ;  Voinnet  et al. , 2003 ) and was added to all transient transformations. A minor variation of this protocol was used for co-expression with  TP-ssRuBisCO–YFP  as this construct produced a very strong fluorescence signal compared with that of ADT–CFP. Therefore,  A. tumefaciens  strains containing  ADT–CFP  and p19 constructs (1:1) were infiltrated 1 d before the infiltration of  TP-ssRuBisCO–YFP  and p19 (1:1) constructs. In addition,  A. tumefaciens  containing the  TP-ssRuBisCO–YFP  construct were infiltrated at a lower OD 600  of ~0.5. Hence visualization of subcellular localization was performed 4 days post-infiltration (dpi) with  TP-ssRuBisCO–YFP  (which equals 5 dpi, with an  ADT–CFP ). Transient transformants were assayed 5 dpi using a Leica SP2 confocal laser scanning microscope equipped with a ×63 water immersion objective. The abaxial surface of leaf tissue was viewed
and YFP fluorescence was false colored red, cyan, and yellow, respectively. Western blots For one protein extract, three leaf disc samples (9 mm) were collected from transiently transformed  N. benthamiana  plants at 4 dpi. Total soluble protein (TSP) was extracted and quantified as described by  Conley  et al.  (2009 a ). For each sample, 10 μg of TSP were size separated by 10% SDS–PAGE. The proteins were probed with a primary anti-GFP antibody (Clontech catalog no. 632380; designed to recognize GFP and fluorescent variants including CFP) at a 1:5000 dilution. Subsequently, a secondary goat anti-mouse IgG (H+L) horseradish peroxidase-conjugated antibody (Bio-Rad catalog no.
