ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
to GFP (AtPR1ΔC;  Figure 1 A,D,F). We expected that this protein will be predominantly secreted outside the cell, since it has no other known sorting signal. Surprisingly, the majority of the protein seemed to be retained in the ER and AtPR1ΔC-GFP positive compartments are not observed in contrast to AtPR1-GFP. This is supported by the observation of a strong nuclear membrane signal in AtPR1ΔC-GFP possibly coming from an over-loaded ER ( Figure 1 D). In order to confirm the presence of the GFP signal, we have checked the emission spectra by a lambda scan mode ( Figure 1 E,F), allowing us to distinguish between the real GFP signal and
also indicates a possible occurrence of dilated subdomains of ER in transiently expressing  N. benthamiana  cells. As PR1 was previously reported to be localized extracellularly [ 8 , 12 ], in order to better visualize cell wall GFP signal, we subjected leaves to increased pH, as well as to plasmolysis by a high concentration of mannitol or
observations, we concluded that the AtPR1 protein is localized to a vesicle-like intracellular compartments and that localization into these compartments requires an intact C-terminus in transient  N. benthamiana  cell expression. PR1-GFP is also localized adjacent to the plasma membrane and weakly into the apoplastic cell wall space.  2.2. Co-Localization of PR1 with Compartmental Markers in N. benthamiana Transiently Transformed Cells In order to uncover the identity of the AtPR1-positive compartment, we have performed co-localization studies of full-length PR1 using red fluorescent protein (RFP)-tagged markers for ER (dsRed-HDEL; [ 17 ]),  cis -Golgi marker Glycine max Golgi mannosidase-RFP (GM-RFP; [ 18 ]),  trans -Golgi marker sialyl transferase-RFP (ST-RFP; donated by Ian Moore, Oxford), extracellular marker pectin methyl esterase 1–RFP (PME1-RFP; [ 19 ]), autophagy marker ATG8-RFP [ 20 ], and PI(3)P–enriched early/late endosomal compartmental marker dsRed-FYVE [ 21 ] ( Figure 2 A–F). PR1-GFP only weakly colocalized with the ER ( Figure 2 ). The overlap with the Golgi marker was partial and the majority of the signal overlapped with FYVE-positive compartment ( Figure 2 ). In some cases, these compartments had obvious
within the vesicle ( Figure 3 ). Unfortunately, our time series scanning did not reveal any events resembling exosome secretion, fusion with vacuolar membrane, nor endocytotic events ( Video S2 ). We performed the object-based quantification of colocalization of PR1-GFP with GM-RFP, ST-RFP and dsRed-FYVE. The highest proportion of the green signal overlapping with the red one was found for the combination of
the C-terminus is localized on the ER ( Figure 4 ). 2.3. Localization of AtPR1 Expressed under the Native and 35S Promoter in Arabidopsis Cells In order to describe PR1 in situ in  Arabidopsis  we have designed PR1-GFP and PR1ΔC-GFP constructs placed under the
Using prolonged (24 h) dark incubation in combination with SA treatment of seedlings, we managed to improve the intensity of GFP constructs signal. This way we could detect the localizations, which were in agreement with previous observations—PR1ΔC-GFP on the ER and ER bodies, and PR1-GFP in a vesicles-like compartment present in the cortical cytoplasm, and also in the vacuole ( Figure 5 C). In order to further address the identity of PR1-positive intracellular compartment(s), we decided to use stable  Arabidopsis  transformation of PR1-GFP constructs driven by the 35S promoter. This allowed us to obtain a stronger
expression by SA, which in high concentrations and prolonged incubations, according to our bright field imaging, significantly affected the appearance and physiology of cells. Under the 35S promoter, in young seedlings, the AtPR1-GFP signal was well detected mainly in ER-bodies like the compartment in cotyledons, probably as an effect of overexpression, but the presence of PR1 compartments similar to those observed in  N. benthamiana  transient expression was also detected (
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
that it is an intronless gene, genomic DNA from wild type Col-0  Arabidopsis  was used as a template for polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Primers enabling cloning into pENTR3C vectors (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., Waltham, MA, USA) were EcoORFPR1: 5′- AAGAATTC GATGAATTTTACTGGCTATTCTCG-3′ and PR1Xho: 5′- AACTCGAG TATGGCTTCTCGTTCACATAATTCC-3′ for the full length open reading frame (ORF) and the same forward but different reverse primer for the C-truncated version PR1ΔXho: 5′- AACTCGAG TTCGCAGCGTAGTTGTAGTTAGCC-3′. For cloning of PR1 with and endogenous promoter, the same two reverse primers were used, with EcoPR1: 5′- AAGAATTC GATGTTTGAGGTTGAGTACGATGG-3′ as forward. Reverse primers were designed with an omitted STOP codon to allow in-frame fusion with GFP. Cloned constructs were transferred from an entry vector by a recombinant LR clonase of Gateway cloning system (Invitrogen, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., Waltham, MA, USA) into pGWB5 (for 35S driven expression) and
either infiltrated parts of  N. benthamiana  leaves or 5–7 day-old seedlings were used for observation under the ZeissLSM880 (Carl Zeiss GmbH, Jena, Germany) confocal microscope using ×63 oil immersion objective. Excitation wavelengths used were 488 nm for GFP and 561 nm for RFP and dsRed. The images were analyzed using Zen 2.1 Software (Carl Zeiss GmbH) and Fiji/ImageJ [ 33 , 34 ]. 4.6. Treatments of Seedlings In order to boost the expression of PR1 protein from the construct placed under the control of endogenous promoter, SA was used (250–500 μM) for at least 24 h in liquid 1/2 MS in sterile 6-multiwell plates. Seedlings/plants were further used for confocal microscopy or protein extraction. Plasmolysis was induced with 0.8 M mannitol or 1 M NaCl. 4.7. Sodium Dodecyl Sulfate–Polyacrylamide Gel Electrophoresis and Western Blot Total protein extracts were performed from two-week old plants transformed with promoterPR1::PR1-GFP and promoterPR1::PR1ΔC-GFP (after SA induction of PR1 expression) using protein extraction buffer described in Hala et al. [ 35 ]. In order to visualize 15 kDa PR1 protein, 15% acrylamide gel was used. Proteins were blotted onto a nitrocellulose membrane (quality
milk in PBS (137 mM NaCl, 2.7 mM KCl, 10 mM Na 2 HPO 4 , and 2 mM KH 2 PO 4 , pH 7.4) supplemented with 0.2% Tween 20. Primary antibodies anti-PR1 (Agrisera AB, Vanas, Sweeden) and anti-GFP (Roche, Basel, Switzerland) were diluted 1:1000 and incubated with the membranes for 3 h at room temperature in the blocking solution. Horseradish peroxidase-conjugated antibody (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) was applied followed by enhanced
