ABSTRACT:
was on the same order of magnitude for FRK1–6, between 260 and 480 μM. FRK7 was an outlier with a fructose Km of 12 μM. ATP binding was similar for all FRKs and ranged between 52 and 280 μM. YFP-tagged AtFRKs were cytosolic, except plastidic FRK3. T-DNA alleles with non-detectable wild-type RNAs in five of the seven active FRK genes produced no overt phenotype. We extended our sequence comparisons to include putative FRKs encoded in other plant sequenced genomes. We observed that different subgroups
three distinct FRKs present on all species investigated including a plastid-localized form. The selective expansion of specific isozymes results in differences in FRK gene number among species. AtFRKs exhibit substrate inhibition, typical of their mammalian counterparts with the single AtFRK1 lacking this property, suggesting it may have a distinct in
RESULTS:
comprises the vacuole, such that the cytosol is compressed between the vacuolar and plasma membranes. Cytosolic proteins therefore appear around the edges of cells by microscopy, as seen for a known GFP-tagged cytosolic protein, β-glucuronidase (Fig.  9a ). FRK1-YFP was observed in the cytosol as the YFP signal was most abundant around the edges of cells with apparent cytosolic bridges connecting parts of the cell (Fig.  9b ). The same was true for FRK2-YFP, and FRK4–7-YFP (Fig.  9c , e-h). As mentioned previously, FRK3 was predicted to contain a cTP and, therefore, predicted to be chloroplast-localized.
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
was brought to 20% glycerol and was flash frozen and stored at −80 °C. Concentration of recombinant proteins was determined using Protein Assay Reagent (BioRad) and BSA to generate standard curves. Purity was determined by coomassie staining of an 10% SDS-acrylamide gel. Enzymatic assays Enzymatic assays were carried out in assays coupling the production of ADP to NADH oxidation and monitored by A 340 . The reaction mixture consisted of 50 mM Tris pH 7.5, 100 mM KCl,
determined using two-way analysis of variance and post hoc Dunnett’s multiple comparison test in Prism (GraphPad). Microscopy Agrobacteria strain AGL1 (gift from Charles Gasser, Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, UC-Davis [ 48 ]) carrying vectors to express C-terminally YFP-tagged FRKs were co-infiltrated with AGL Agrobacteria carrying P19 (gift from Richard Michelmore, Plant Sciences Department, UC-Davis [ 49 ]) into  Nicotiana benthamiana  leaves. After 48 h, a small leaf disc close to the site of infiltration was excised
