ABSTRACT:
but the relevance of their complex structure to physiological function and cellular fate is unresolved. Using a fully functional fluorescent version of  Arabidopsis thaliana    FLA 4 we show that this protein is localized at the plasma membrane as well as in endosomes and soluble in the apoplast.  FLA 4 is likely to be  GPI ‐anchored, is highly  N‐ glycosylated and carries two  O‐ glycan epitopes previously associated with arabinogalactan proteins. The activity
RESULTS:
Results Functional FLA4‐citrin is mainly localized at the plasma membrane We generated FLA4‐citrin (F4C), an in‐frame fusion between the predicted FLA4 signal peptide fused to the pH‐stable yellow fluorescent protein monomeric citrin (Shaner  et al .,  2005 ) followed by the FLA4 coding region including the predicted GPI‐signal
remained attached to the cell wall (Figure  3 a) and it was localized diffusely in the apoplastic space between the plasma membrane and the cell wall. A similar dual apoplastic and plasma membrane localization was displayed by the GPI‐anchored SKU5‐GFP (Sedbrook  et al .,  2002 ) (Figure  3 c), while the integral membrane protein PIP1;4‐cerulean (Geldner  et al .,  2009 ) was exclusively membrane localized (Figure  3 d). To estimate the overall degree of association of F4C
sedimenting fraction (P300, ‘cell wall fraction’) a slowly sedimenting fraction (P100k, microsomes) and a soluble fraction (SN). The protein blots were sequentially probed with antibodies for GFP, for SKU5 (Sedbrook  et al .,  2002 ) and the integral membrane protein PIN2 (Abas  et al .,  2006 ). F4C was mostly detected in microsomes and to a lesser extent in the ‘cell wall’, with a
is primarily anchored to the plasma membrane from where it is endocytosed or released to the apoplast. Figure 3   FLA 4‐citrin is localized both at the plasma membrane and in the apoplast. (a) FLA4‐citrin and FM4‐64. (b) SKU5‐GFP and FM4‐64. (c) PIP1;4‐YFP. (d) Equivalent proportions (percentage of total) of the pellet after centrifugation at 300  g  (P300) and the supernatant (SN) and pellet (P100k) after subsequent
noted (Abas  et al .,  2006 ). FLA4‐citrin can function without its GPI‐modification signal A plausible mechanism of dual localization of F4C at the plasma membrane and in the apoplast is by means of GPI‐anchoring. Instability of the GFP epitope towards GPI‐PLC digestion and apparent release of the protein from the membrane fraction under control conditions precluded unambiguous enzymatic demonstration of GPI‐modification (Figure  S2 ). To test whether the C‐terminus that is predicted to act as GPI‐modification signal,
requirement of the C‐terminal domain for membrane attachment (Figure  4 a). This was confirmed at the microscopic level, where F4C∆GPI failed to label the plasma membrane but was in a mostly intracellular localization where it co‐localized with ER‐retained red fluorescent protein (erRFP) (Gallavotti  et al .,  2008 ) (Figure  4 b). Co‐localization was apparently complete including an intracellular mesh and fusiform ER bodies (Hawes  et al .,  2001 ; Nakano  et al .,  2014 ). Upon plasmolysis, most
association. Transgenic lines expression full‐length FLA4‐citrin (F4C) or C‐terminally truncated F4C (F4C∆GPI) are separated into high‐speed (100 000  g ) supernatant (SN) and pellet (P). Cytosolic fructose‐1,6,‐bisphisphatase (cFBPase) is only detected in the soluble fraction. (b) F4C∆GPI co‐localizes with ER‐targeted RFP (erRFP). (c) Plasmolysis of full‐length and FLA4‐citrin∆GPI indicates residual secretion but no plasma membrane localization of F4C∆GPI (scale bar for (c, d) = 10 μm). (d) After brefeldin A (BFA) treatment F4C∆GPI is partially localized to BFA body‐like structures (arrowheads). The variable amino‐proximal
erRFP (Figure  5 b) but neither with RabA1e‐cerulean (Figure  5 c) nor with RabF2e‐cerulean (Figure  5 d). Plasmolysis of root cells expressing the truncated constructs showed a bright F4C∆Fas1‐1‐derived signal in the apoplast and less bright labelling of the plasma
a). This suggested that F4C_N207Q might either be retained in the ER or not be efficiently modified by Golgi localized  N‐ glycan remodelling enzymes. In agreement with the former possibility, F4C_N207Q displayed predominant co‐localization with the ER marker erRFP with only a minor proportion of F4CN207 localized at the cell periphery (Figure  7 b). Despite the dramatic influence of this highly conserved glycosylation site on protein trafficking, the  F4C_N207Q  transgene displayed genetic complementation comparable
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
(Laemmli,  1970 ) and electro‐blotted onto nitrocellulose membrane (Amersham Protran, GE Healthcare Life Science) at 100 V for 45 min. The membrane was blocked with 2.5% skimmed dried milk (in PBST buffer) for 1 h. The citrin tag was detected with anti‐GFP (D5.1) XP ®  Rabbit mAb (Cell Signalling; 1:1000 in blocking buffer) followed by horseradish peroxidase‐conjugated anti‐rabbit secondary antibody (Cell signalling; 1:10 000 in PBST) and Amersham ECL Prime Western Blotting Detection Reagent (Amersham, GE Healthcare Life science). Blots were
g  for 1 h at 4°C. Two‐phase partitioning using Triton X‐114 and GPI‐PLC digest was performed as previously described (Sherrier  et al .,  1999 ). Affinity purification of citrin tagged FLA4 derivatives We used the μMACS and MultiMACS GFP Isolation Kits (Miltenyi Biotec) to purify citrin tagged protein according to manufacturer's instruction with the following modifications. Binding of 400 μl extract to 50 μl anti‐GFP‐tagged magnetic beads was done at 4°C for 20 h. Washing was done with 6 × 200 μl of extraction buffer including 0.1% SDS and a final rinse with 100 μl wash buffer (50 m m  Tris–HCl, pH 8.0) in a μMACS magnetic separator. We eluted the protein from the column with 80 μl of SDS‐PAGE loading buffer (Laemmli,  1970 ) preheated to 95°C. Gels were stained with SYPRO Ruby (Thermo Fisher Sci.) for subsequent protein identification using LC‐ESI‐MS/MS. Protein identification and peptide analysis using LC‐ESI‐MS/MS We excised relevant protein bands and performed in
to quadrupole ion trap instrument (amaZon speed ETD, Bruker) equipped with the standard ESI source in the positive ion, DDA mode. We converted analysis files to XML files, using Data Analysis 4.0 (Bruker) which subjects MS/MS ion searches to MASCOT (embedded in ProteinScape 3.0, Bruker) for protein identification. Only proteins identified with at least two peptides with a protein score higher than 80 were accepted. For the searches the SwissProt database was used. Detection of
