ABSTRACT:
RESULTS:
 At GLYR2, localize to both organelles. Moreover,  At GLYR2 is annotated at the Arabidopsis subcellular proteome database [SUBAcon ( Hooper et al., 2014 )] to be localized to plastids; however, this latter conclusion was drawn solely from mass spectrometry studies involving isolated plastids (i.e., chloroplast), but not mitochondrial organellar fractions. In order to begin to assess the subcellular localization of GLYRs  in vivo, Md GLYR-GFP fusion proteins were transiently expressed and visualized via CLSM in tobacco suspension-cultured BY-2 cells, serving as
2003 ). Similar to the abovementioned previous results for  At GLYR1 ( Ching et al., 2012 ),  Md GLYR1-GFP displayed diffuse localization throughout the cell, similar to co-expressed Cherry, a red fluorescent protein that served as a cytosolic marker protein ( Shaner et al., 2004 ) ( Figures  2A – D ). By contrast,  Md GLYR2-GFP localized to distinct globular-shaped structures, which co-localized with the co-expressed plastid marker fusion protein, consisting of the E2 subunit of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex fused to Cherry (PDC pl -E2-Cherry) ( Park et al., 2012 ) ( Figures  2E – H ), indicating that, similar to previous results for  At GLYR2 ( Simpson et al., 2008 ),  Md GLYR2 is localized to plastids. However,  Md GLYR2-GFP in the majority (>70%) of BY-2 cells examined localized also to numerous small puncta that did not co-localize with co-expressed PDC pl -E2-Cherry ( Figure  3A ), but did co-localize with the endogenous mitochondrial protein, cytochrome oxidase subunit II (CoxII) ( Figure  3B ). Taken together, these data suggest that  Md GLYR2-GFP is localized to both plastids and mitochondria in BY-2 cells. Similar results were observed for  Os GLYR2-GFP ( Figures  3C,D ). These findings also prompted us to revisit the subcellular localization of  At GLYR2, which had not been assessed for mitochondrial localization in our previous study ( Simpson et al., 2008 ). As shown in  Figures  3E,F ,  At GLYR2-GFP localized to both co-expressed PDC pl -E2-Cherry-containing plastids, as well as to endogenous CoxII-containing mitochondria. FIGURE 2 Subcellular localization of  Md GLYRs in tobacco BY-2 cells.  Representative CLSM images of BY-2 cells (co)expressing (as indicated by the panel labels)  MdGLYR1-GFP   (A)  and the cytosolic marker  Cherry   (B)  or MdGLYR2-GFP  (E)  and plastid marker PDC pl - E2-mCherry   (F) . Processing of cells and viewing using CLSM are described in the Section ‘Materials and Methods’. Shown also is the corresponding merged  (C,G)  and
μm. FIGURE 3 Plastid and mitochondrial localization of  Md GLYR2,  At GLYR2, or  Os GLYR2 in tobacco BY-2 cells. (A–F)  Representative CLSM images of BY-2 cells (co)expressing (as indicated by the panel labels)  Md GLYR2-GFP,  Os GLYR2-GFP, or  At GLYR2-GFP and either the plastid marker PDC pl -E2-Cherry or immunostained for endogenous, mitochondrial CoxII. Processing of cells for immunofluorescence and viewing using CLSM are described in the ‘Materials and Methods’. Shown also is the corresponding merged and DIC images
Md GLYR2-GFP,  Os GLYR2-GFP, and  At GLYR2-GFP was further investigated in transiently transformed Arabidopsis suspension cell-derived protoplasts. As shown in  Figure  4 , all three GLYR2-GFPs localized in protoplasts to both co-expressed PDC pl -E2-Cherry-containing plastids and Mitotracker-stained mitochondria. FIGURE 4 Plastid and mitochondrial localization of  Md GLYR2,  Os GLYR2, or  At GLYR2 in Arabidopsis protoplasts. (A–F)  Representative CLSM images of Arabidopsis protoplasts (co)expressing (as indicated by the panel labels)  Md GLYR2-GFP,  Os GLYR2-GFP, or  At GLYR2-GFP and either the plastid marker PDC pl -E2-Cherry or stained with Mitotracker. Processing and viewing of protoplasts using CLSM are described in the Section ‘Materials and Methods’. Shown also is the corresponding merged and DIC images for each cell.
of methoxyfenozide, due to bleed-through from endogenous chlorophyll autofluorescence or Mitotracker staining, or in  At GLYR2-GFP-transformed seedlings in the absence of methoxyfenozide induction (Supplementary Figure  S3 ). However, upon induction  At GLYR2-GFP localized consistently to both plastids and mitochondria, based on the co-localization of the fusion protein with chlorophyll autofluorescence and Mitotracker staining, respectively ( Figure  5 ), corroborating results for the dual localization of  At GLYR2-GFP in tobacco BY-2 cells ( Figure 
). FIGURE 5 Dual localization of methoxyfenozide-inducible AtGLYR2-GFP in stably transformed Arabidopsis.  Arabidopsis seedlings, stably expressing  AtGLYR2-GFP  were imaged (by CLSM) after induction with methoxyfenozide  (A) .  (B,F)  Represent the corresponding chlorophyll autofluorescence (plastid marker) and Mitotracker staining of the same cells, respectively. Co-localization of GFP and chlorophyll is observed based on the cyan color in the
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Plant Materials, RNA, and DNA Extraction, and Identification of Plant GLYRs Arabidopsis thaliana  (L.) Heynh ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was the genetic background of the wild type (WT) and the  AtGLYR2 -  GREEN FLUORESCENT PROTEIN  ( GFP ) transgenic line. Total RNA was extracted and used for synthesis of cDNA and quantitative PCR analysis as described previously ( Zarei et al., 2011 ,  2014 ). The preparation of apple and rice RNA and cDNA has been described elsewhere ( Brauer et al., 2011 ;  Trobacher et al., 2013b ). The primer sequences used to determine the abundance of  GLYR2 - GFP  and the housekeeping transcript  ELONGATION FACTOR-1 ALPHA  (At5g60390;  Czechowski et al., 2005 ) are listed in Supplementary Table  S3 . The extraction of Arabidopsis genomic DNA has been described ( Zarei et al., 2011
Apple and Rice GLYRs and Arabidopsis GLYR2 The Arabidopsis  GLYR  sequences were utilized as queries in the apple genome database 4 . Two GLYRs have been identified as  Md GLYR1 (MDP0000149834) and  Md GLYR2 (MDP0000158245). GFP-tagged versions of  Md GLYR2,  At GLYR2, and  Os GLYR2 were constructed for subcellular localization studies. The full-length open reading frame (ORF) of  MdGLYR1  was amplified with CB-F1 and CB-R1 primers, whereas the  MdGLYR2  ORF was amplified with CB-F2 and CB-R2 primers (Supplementary Table  S3 ). The resulting PCR products were sub-cloned into the plant expression vector pUC18-GFP, resulting in both  Md GLYRs being fused at their C-termini to a monomerized version of GFP. The full-length ORF of  AtGLYR2  was amplified with  Nhe I-AtGLYR2-F and  Nhe I-AtGLYR2-R primers from Arabidopsis rosette leaf cDNA. The resulting PCR product was sub-cloned into pUC18/ NheI -GFP, yielding  AtGLYR2 -GFP. The rice cv. Nipponbare (AK064876) cDNA was provided by the Rice Genome Resource Center, National Institute of Agrobiological Sciences (Tsukuba, Japan). The  OsGLYR2  ORF was amplified using the primer sets  Not I-OsGLYR2-F and  Xho I-OsGLYR2-R (Supplementary Table  S3 ). The resulting PCR product was sub-cloned into pTH-2 vector ( Englert et al., 2007 ), yielding  OsGLYR2-GFP . Transient Expression and Subcellular Localization of Apple, Rice, and Arabidopsis and Rice GLYRs in Tobacco BY-2 Cells and Arabidopsis Protoplasts A total of 5 μg of plasmid DNA encoding an individual GFP fusion protein with or without 1 μg of plasmid DNA encoding cytosolic Cherry (pRTL2/Cherry;  Gidda et al., 2011 ) or the plastidial marker pSAT4/PDCpl-E2-Cherry ( Park et al., 2012 ) was transiently expressed in tobacco BY-2 suspension cells
laser-scanning microscopy (CLSM) are described in  Trobacher et al. (2013a) . Mitochondria were immunostained using rabbit anti-CoxII affinity-purified IgGs and goat anti-rabbit rhodamine red × secondary antibodies (Jackson Immunoresearch Laboratories), according to  Frelin et al. (2012) . GFP and chlorophyll
for Cherry and 579–599 nm for Mitotracker. Arabidopsis cell suspension protoplasts were prepared by enzyme digestion ( Zarei et al., 2011 ). Ten microgram of plasmid DNA encoding an individual GFP fusion protein with or without 5 μg of pSAT4/PDCpl-E2-Cherry plasmid DNA was mixed with 125 μL of protoplast solution containing half a million cells. Protoplasts were transformed using polyethylene glycol as described elsewhere ( Schirawski et al., 2000 ).
