ABSTRACT:
processes are largely unknown. Here, we characterized an unknown Arabidopsis gene,  GTP-BINDING PROTEIN RELATED1  ( GPR1 ).  GPR1  is specifically expressed in ovule, pollen, and pollen tube. Enhanced green fluorescent protein-tagged GPR1 localizes to both nucleus and cytoplasm, and it also presents in punctate and ring-like structures.  gpr1  mutants exhibit no defect in gametogenesis and seed setting, except that their pollen grains are pale in color. Scanning electron microscopy
RESULTS:
). 2.2. GPR1 Protein Localizes to Nucleus and Cytoplasm To explore the subcellular localization of GPR1 protein, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing either a C-terminal fusion of  GPR1  and  ENHANCED GREEN FLUORESCENT PROTEIN  ( EGFP ) under control of the 
in tapetum, developing pollen and ovule ( Supplemental Figure S3 ;  Figure 3  and  Figure 4 ). During pollen development, GPR1-EGFP signal was undetectable in pollen mother cell ( Figure 3 A), then was detected in nucleus and cytoplasm of tetrad, microspore, polarized microspore, and bicellular pollen ( Figure 3 B–E;  Supplemental Figure S3 ). Furthermore, in bicellular pollen, GPR1-EGFP signal was strong in the vegetative cell nucleus but was undetectable in the germ cell nuclei ( Figure 3 E;  Supplemental Figure S3 ). In mature pollen, the GPR1-EGFP signal was decreased to below detectable level ( Figure 3 F). In in vitro germinated pollen tubes, GPR1-EGFP signal was also undetectable (Data not shown).
pollen tube. Therefore, to determine the localization of GPR1-EGFP in mature pollen and pollen tube, we generated transgenic lines expressing  ProLAT52:GPR1-EGFP  ( ProLAT52  is a strong pollen-specific promoter). In mature pollen, ProLAT52:GPR1-EGFP signal was detected in nucleus and cytoplasm of the vegetative cell, but was undetectable in the germ cell nuclei ( Figure 3 G–I). This is consistent with the expression pattern of  ProGPR1:GPR1-EGFP  in bicellular pollen ( Supplemental Figure S3B ). In pollen tube, GPR1-EGFP was also only detected in the vegetative nucleus and cytoplasm ( Figure 3 J–L). Furthermore, the GPR1-EGFP localized to some punctate and ring-like structures in the cytosol of the vegetative cell ( Figure 3 G,J). During ovule development, GPR1-EGFP signal was undetectable at developmental stage 2-III ( Figure 4 A), then was first detected in megaspore mother cell at stage 3-I ( Figure 4 B), and maintains in functional megaspore, coenocytic female gametophyte and mature embryo sac, and also resided in nucleus and cytoplasm ( Figure 4 C–G). GPR1-EGFP labeled punctate structures was also observed in cytoplasm of female gametophyte ( Supplemental Figure S4 ). We also examined the EGFP-GPR1 signals in root tips of the  Pro35S: EGFP-GPR1  transgenic plants. We found that EGFP-GPR1 also localized to both nucleus and cytoplasm of root cells, and also resided in punctate and ring-like structures ( Supplemental Figure S5 ). The identity of these structures remains to be elucidated. 2.3. GPR1 Is Not the Ortholog of
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Then, 419 bp of sequence downstream the  GPR1  stop codon (3′ regulating sequence of the  GPR1  gene) was amplified and cloned into the vector downstream of the  GUS  gene. To generate the  ProGPR1:GPR1-EGFP  translational fusion construct, the  GPR1  promoter and full-length coding sequence (nucleotides −2567 to 690 from ATG) was amplified and inserted into the pGreenII0229-EGFP plasmid in frame with the  EGFP  gene [ 40 ]. Then, the 3′ regulating sequence of the  GPR1  gene (419 bp) was cloned into the above constructed vector at downstream of the  EGFP  gene. To generate the  ProLAT52:GPR1-EGFP  construct, the 666 bp promoter fragment of the  LAT52  gene was amplified from  Solanum lycopersicum  and cloned into the pGreenII0229-GPR1-EGFP vector upstream of the  GPR1  coding sequence. To construct the p35S:EGFP-GPR1 plasmid, the  EGFP  fragment was cut from the pGreenII0229-EGFP plasmid using  Xho I and  Sac I enzymes, then inserted into the pBA002 vector (with CaMV 35S promoter; from Nam-Hai Chua) using the same sites; then  GPR1  full-length cDNA was cloned into the pBA002-EGFP vector at downstream of the  EGFP  gene and in frame with  EGFP . All constructed vectors were introduced into  Agrobacterium tumefaciens  strain C58C1 (pMP90/pJIC Sa-Rep) and transformed into wild-type Arabidopsis (Col-0) plants by floral dip method [ 41 ]. Seeds harvested from the transformed plants were sowed in soil
 and  gpr1-2  plants were dissected; pollen grains were subjected to freeze drying, then mounted for coating with gold and observed on a QUANTA 200 (FEI, Hillsboro, OR, USA) scanning electron microscope. For observation expression pattern of GPR1-EGFP in ovules and anthers, flowers were dissected at different developmental stages and mounted in an 8% glycerol solution. Fluorescent signals were detected by confocal laser scanning microscope (CLSM, Leica TCS SP5, Wetzlar, Germany). 4.6. Pollen Grain and Pollen Tube Staining To assay pollen viability, Alexander staining was carried out as described [ 43 ], and then cleared in
