!~ABS~! An Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA, called At14a, was isolated by immunoscreening an expression library with an anti-integrin antibody. The At14a cDNA is 1459 nucleotides and has an open reading frame encoding a protein of 385 amino acids and a predicted molecular weight of 43kDa. At14a has a small domain that has sequence similarities to integrins from fungi, insects and humans. Transcripts of At14a are found in all Arabidopsis tissues examined, and when expressed as an epitope tagged fusion protein in transgenic plants, At14a localizes partly to the plasma membrane.
!~RES~! We screened an A. thaliana cDNA expression library with a polyclonal antibody made against a highly conserved peptide in the cytoplasmic domain of vertebrate β1 integrins. We obtained seven different genes in this screen. One of these, At14a, had a sequence similarity to integrins, although it lacked obvious homology to the peptide used to raise the antibody. The nucleotide sequence of At14a and its deduced amino acid sequence are presented in CITATION . The insert size of At14a is 1459 nucleotides with an open reading frame corresponding to nucleotide positions 10–1164 that encodes a protein of 385 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of 43kDa. CITATION hydropathy plots show that the At14a gene product has a broad hydrophobic region spanning the amino acids 220–260 (CITATION ). The computer program tm-helix also predicts two strong transmembrane helices spanning amino acids 217–237 and 244–264 in that hydrophobic region. Homology searches of the databases revealed that the At14a gene product has 37% identity over 35 amino acids to a putative integrin-like protein, USO1, from S. cerevisiae (CITATION) (CITATION, Box B), 25% identity over 36 amino acids to the integrin-like protein αint1, from C. albicans (CITATION), 24% identity over 42 amino acids to the βν integrin subunit of Drosophila (CITATION), and 36% identity over 38 amino acids to the human β1 integrin (CITATION). Within these regions of similarity, the latter three proteins and At14a have a highly conserved domain of 11 amino acids corresponding to a significant portion of the cytoplasmic domain of the human β1 integrin (CITATION, Box A). We probed Southern blots of A. thaliana genomic DNA digested with three different restriction enzymes with 32P-labelled At14a cDNA, under both high- and low-stringency hybridizations conditions (see CITATION). As shown in CITATION , the high stringency conditions revealed only one or two hybridizing fragment(s) for each enzyme used. We observed the same pattern of hybridizing fragments under low-stringency conditions, indicating that At14a is a single copy gene (data not shown). Using the same low-stringency conditions, we did not detect any hybridizing fragments in DNA isolated from Medicago truncatula, maize, or rice (data not shown). We isolated total RNA from roots, leaves, stems, flowers and siliques of A. thaliana and hybridized Northern blots with At14a as the probe. As shown in CITATION , all these tissues expressed a 1.4-kb transcript corresponding to At14a. Although equal amounts of total RNA were loaded in each lane, the intensity of the hybridization signal was slightly higher with root and leaf RNA than with stem and flower RNA. In order to study localization of the At14a gene product, we generated transgenic plants that express the fusion protein c-Myc-14RI driven by the constitutive 35S CaMV promoter. To make this fusion, we cloned a c-Myc epitope at the N-terminus of an EcoRI fragment encoding amino acids 1–303 (this includes boxes A and B as well as the putative transmembrane domain amino acids, see CITATION) of the cDNA clone At14a. We assume that this fusion protein will localize as the endogenous At14a gene product does. We saw no obvious morphological phenotypes in the transgenic plants. We prepared protein extracts from wild-type (untransformed) and transgenic plants and carried out immunodetection experiments using a monoclonal anti-c-Myc-antibody raised in mice. As shown in CITATION , this antibody cross-reacted on a Western blot with a protein of the expected size in transgenic plant extracts (lane T) that was absent in the wild-type extracts (lane WT). We prepared microsomes from both the wild-type and transgenic plant protein extracts and observed that this cross-reacting band was present in both the cytoplasm (CF) and the microsome fractions (MF) from the transgenic plants (CITATION). This indicated that at least some fraction of the fusion protein is present in the membranes. The fusion protein present in the cytoplasmic fraction could arise from overexpression of protein or from contamination of the cytoplasmic fraction with the membrane fraction. To test whether our cytoplasmic fraction was contaminated with the membrane fraction, we used the same protein extracts for immunodetection with anti-RD28 antibody. RD28 is an aquaporin, and it has been shown to be an integral membrane protein in A. thaliana (CITATION). There was no RD28 protein in the cytoplasmic fraction (CITATION), indicating that our cytoplasmic fraction was not contaminated with the membrane fraction. To test whether the fusion protein was in the plasma membrane or in one of the intracellular membranes (chloroplast, mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi body, peroxisome), we purified the microsome preparations from transgenic plants by two phase partitioning and isolated the plasma membranes. Immunodetection experiments showed that the fusion protein is enriched in the plasma membrane fraction (CITATION ). The At14a band present in the lane loaded with the intracellular membrane fraction is most likely due to contamination of that preparation with plasma membrane, as the RD28 antibody also recognized a band in this fraction (CITATION). Localization experiments using GFP (green fluorescent protein) as reporter at the N-terminus of full-length At14a cDNA in stably transformed tobacco suspension cultured cells (BY2) also showed that the fusion protein was present in the cytoplasm as well as in the plasma membrane (data not shown). We derived a CAPS marker from the cDNA clone At14a and used it to obtain segregation data for recombinant inbred lines. These data were sent to Mary Anderson at the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Center for analysis and mapping. Based on the segregation data with 29 recombinant inbred lines, At14a has been roughly mapped to chromosome 3 between the markers GL1 and m249.
!~MM~! The A. thaliana expression library (in lambda ZapII vector) used in this study was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center at Ohio State University. The anti-integrin antibody was raised in rabbit against the peptide VTTVVNPKYEGK. An anti-c-Myc monoclonal (9E10) culture supernatant was obtained from the Tissue Culture Facility at UNC Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center. Anti-RD28 antibody was a gift from Maarten Chrispeels. An appropriate dilution of the library was plated on the host strain Escherichia coli, XL1 Blue MRF′ (Stratagene) to obtain about 20000 plaque forming units on a large Petri dish (150× 15mm) and incubated at 42°C for 3.5h. Nitrocellulose membranes presoaked in 10mM IPTG were placed on the developing plaques, and the plates were incubated at 37°C. After 3–4h, the membranes were peeled off and immunoscreened using a Stratagene immunoscreen kit with the peptide antibody at a dilution of 1:2000. The secondary antibody used was alkaline phosphatase conjugated goat anti-rabbit. The positive clones were picked, excised in vivo from recombinant phage and introduced into E. coli SOLR strain (Stratagene). The isolated plasmid DNA was sequenced by the dideoxy chain termination method at the sequencing facility at UNC, Chapel Hill. The nucleotide sequence and its deduced amino acid sequence were analysed, and the homology searches of the databases were carried out using the computer programs blast, bestfit and tm-helix. The gene was mapped by assaying an At14a-specific restriction site polymorphism among recombinant inbred lines of ecotypes Columbia and Landsberg erecta (CITATION). The marker was detected using the PCR product amplified by the primers 5′CATCGATGGTGCTATCCAAAGAG3′ and 5′AGTGGAGTCAGTGACTCCTAC3′, followed by digestion with HinfI. Seeds were surface sterilized by first treating with 70% ethanol for 2min, then with bleach (diluted 1:2 in water) for 10min, followed by several washes with sterile water. Sterilized seeds were plated on MS plates [containing 1× Murashige–Skoog salt mixture (GIBCO-BRL), 2% sucrose and 0.8% phytagar], left at 4°C for 2days and then germinated in plant growth chambers set at 22°C and 16h day/8h night. Two weeks later, the seedlings were picked, transferred to soil and grown in the greenhouse. The desired construct in a plant transformation vector was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens and infiltrated into A. thaliana ecotype Columbia plants according to CITATION. Infiltrated plants were grown to maturity, and seeds were collected. These seeds were sterilized and plated on MS plates containing 2% sucrose and 50μg/ml of kanamycin. Kanamycin-resistant T1 plants were picked and propagated. DNA was isolated from greenhouse-grown, 3–4-week-old A. thaliana plants. About 0.5g of fresh tissue was ground in liquid nitrogen, and genomic DNA was extracted in 15ml of extraction buffer as described by CITATION. About 3μg of DNA were digested and electrophoresed on 0.8% agarose gels. DNA was transferred to Hybond-N membranes, UV-cross-linked and hybridized at 65°C according to the manufacturer's instructions. 32P-labelled probes were prepared using a random priming kit (Boehringer Mannheim). After hybridization, the membranes were washed three times for 15min each at 65°C in 0.1× SSC, 0.1% SDS for high stringency conditions and at room temperature in 0.2× SSC, 0.1% SDS for low stringency conditions. Membranes were exposed to Kodak XAR film at −70°C. Total RNA was isolated from different tissues using the guanidium method of CITATION. RNA (15–30μg) was electrophoretically separated in formaldehyde agarose gels and transferred to Hybond-N membranes according to the manufacturer's instructions. 32P-labelled probes were prepared, and the hybridization was carried out as for the Southerns. The rDNA probe was a 2.5-kb EcoRI fragment carrying an Arabidopsis ribosomal RNA gene (CITATION). Protein extracts were prepared by homogenizing 7–10g of green tissue (leaf, stem) in 70–100ml of extraction buffer (12% sucrose, 100mM Tris–Cl, pH7.5, 1mM EDTA) containing protease inhibitors (0.2mM PMSF, 2mg/ml aprotinin, 1mg/ml leupeptin and 1mg/ml pepstatin A) in a glass homogenizer. The extracts were spun at 3000rpm for 10min at 4°C, supernatant filtered twice through one layer of Miracloth and collected in SW41 tubes. These were spun at 35000rpm for 2h at 4°C in an SW41 rotor. The pellets obtained were pooled and resuspended in 9–10ml of microsome buffer (5mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH7.8, 3mM KCl, 1mM EDTA, 12% sucrose) containing protease inhibitors. Plasma membranes were purified from the microsomes prepared as above by two phase partitioning according to CITATION with some modifications. Final concentration of both the polymers (Dextran T500 and PEG 3350) was 6.6%. The final upper and lower phases were diluted to 80 and 160ml, respectively, in microsome buffer and spun in an SW27 rotor for 6h at 25,000rpm at 4°C. The plasma membrane pellets were resuspended in total 500μl of protein extraction buffer and the pellets of all other membranes in one ml of the same buffer. Protein concentrations were routinely determined using the Bio Rad protein assay kit. For immunoblotting, appropriate quantities of proteins/protein extracts were mixed with sample buffer, denatured by either boiling for 5min (for total extracts) or by heating to 65°C for 10min (for microsomal and membrane preparations), fractionated on 10% SDS– polyacrylamide gel and transferred to Biotrace NT nitrocellulose membranes according to the manufacturer's instructions (Gelman Sciences). Proteins were detected using the appropriate antibody. The secondary antibodies used were alkaline-phosphatase-conjugated. Proteins were visualized by using chromogenic reagents BCIP and NBT from Sigma.
