!~ABS~! Pollen tube cells elongate based on actin- dependent targeted secretion at the tip. Rho family small GTPases have been implicated in the regulation of related processes in animal and yeast cells. We have functionally characterized Rac type Rho family proteins that are expressed in growing pollen tubes. Expression of dominant negative Rac inhibited pollen tube elongation, whereas expression of constitutive active Rac induced depolarized growth. Pollen tube Rac was found to accumulate at the tip plasma membrane and to physically associate with a phosphatidylinositol monophosphate kinase (PtdIns P-K) activity. Phosphatidylinositol 4, 5-bisphosphate (PtdIns 4, 5-P2), the product of PtdIns P-Ks, showed a similar intracellular localization as Rac. Expression of the pleckstrin homology (PH)-domain of phospholipase C (PLC)-δ1, which binds specifically to PtdIns 4, 5-P2, inhibited pollen tube elongation. These results indicate that Rac and PtdIns 4, 5-P2 act in a common pathway to control polar pollen tube growth and provide direct evidence for a function of PtdIns 4, 5-P2 compartmentalization in the regulation of this process.
!~RES~! Previously, we reported the cloning of At-Rac1, which was identified in a screen for A. thaliana cDNAs that cause morphological changes when expressed in yeast (CITATION). Using At-Rac1 as a probe, At-Rac2 was isolated from an A. thaliana cDNA library. The corresponding genomic sequences were cloned by screening an A. thaliana library with At-Rac1 or At-Rac2 cDNA probes. Genomic sequences upstream of the At-Rac1 and At-Rac2 ORFs, including the ends of adjacent ORFs and the entire At-Rac 5′ untranslated regions, were fused to a cDNA encoding GUS (CITATION). Transgenic A. thaliana lines containing the resulting At-Rac1 or At-Rac2 promoter- GUS fusion constructs (At-Rac1::GUS, At-Rac2::GUS) were generated and histochemically analyzed for GUS expression. Four independent lines transformed with At-Rac2::GUS showed GUS expression confined to pollen (Fig. CITATION a), to growing pollen tubes, to stipules, and to a small region of the vascular tissue below the cotyledons (data not shown). In contrast, six lines transformed with At-Rac1::GUS were all found to express GUS in the vascular tissues of all organs. Only one of these lines showed a weak GUS expression in pollen (data not shown). GUS is known to be a stable protein with a slow turnover rate in plant cells (CITATION). To confirm that GUS activity detected in transgenic pollen tubes resulted at least partially from gene expression during pollen germination and tube growth, promoter-GUS fusion constructs were also transiently expressed in growing tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) pollen tubes. Under these conditions, the At-Rac2 promoter was found to confer strong GUS expression (Fig. CITATION c) at a level similar to that obtained with the pollen-specific lat52 promoter (CITATION; Fig. CITATION e). No GUS expression was observed in pollen tubes transiently transfected with At-Rac1::GUS (Fig. CITATION d) or with a control construct containing a cDNA encoding GFP (CITATION) fused to the lat52 promoter (Fig. CITATION f). These results indicate that At-Rac2, but not At-Rac1, is preferentially expressed in pollen and in growing pollen tubes. At-Rac1 and At-Rac2 encode proteins of 21 kD that show high homology to human HsRac1 (62.0 and 61.3% identical amino acids, respectively; Fig. CITATION). Recombinant At-Rac1 and At-Rac2 were both found to bind and to hydrolyze GTP (data not shown), confirming that the two proteins are indeed functional small GTPases. They belong to a large family of Rac-like proteins with unknown or poorly characterized cellular functions whose genes have been cloned recently from different plant species. The protein sequences of Arac1 (CITATION) and Rop1At (CITATION), two A. thaliana Rac-like proteins that share very high sequence homology with At-Rac2 (98.5 and 95.4% identical amino acids, respectively), are shown in Fig. CITATION. Interestingly, Rop1At has been shown to be expressed in pollen and was proposed to have a function in the regulation of pollen tube growth (CITATION). We found that in situ analysis of At-Rac2 function in cultured A. thaliana pollen tubes is not feasible. These cells elongate slowly, show severe morphological abnormalities, and cease growing only a few hours after germination (CITATION; Kost, B., and N.-H. Chua, unpublished observations). By contrast, tobacco pollen tubes can grow rapidly and morphologically normal in vitro for up to 48 h (CITATION). Methods have been established that allow analysis of transient gene expression in cultured tobacco pollen tubes after gene transfer into germinating pollen grains by particle bombardment (CITATION). We have used these methods, along with biochemical techniques, to study the function of At-Rac2 and its tobacco homologues in the regulation of pollen tube growth. An antibody raised against At-Rac1 (α-At-Rac) was found to have similar affinities to recombinant At-Rac1 and At-Rac2 (data not shown). Immunoblot analysis showed that in tobacco pollen tube extracts α-At-Rac binds to at least one protein with an apparent molecular mass of 21 kD (Fig. CITATION a), which corresponds to the size of Rac. Clostridium difficile toxin B (TcdB) is known to glucosylate and thereby inactivate specifically mammalian Rho family proteins including Rac (CITATION). Treatment with TcdB and UDP-[14C]-glucose resulted in glucosylation and labeling of recombinant At-Rac2 (data not shown), showing that plant Rac homologues can serve as substrates of this toxin. Radiolabeled proteins of 21 kD were detected in tobacco pollen tube extracts assayed for glucosylation by TcdB, but not in control samples treated with UDP-[14C]-glucose alone (Fig. CITATION b). To investigate whether the detected pollen tube TcdB targets are recognized by α-At-Rac, proteins interacting with this antibody were immunoprecipitated from tobacco pollen tube extracts assayed for glucosylation by TcdB. In these experiments, at least one 21-kD pollen tube protein glucosylated by TcdB was found to interact with α-At-Rac (Fig. CITATION c) and was therefore identified as an At-Rac2 homologue. No radiolabeled proteins were precipitated from assayed extracts treated with preimmune serum (Fig. CITATION c). A cDNA encoding the catalytic domain of TcdB (CITATION) was transiently expressed under the control of the lat52 promoter in tobacco pollen tubes. Fluorescence emitted by coexpressed GFP was used to identify successfully targeted pollen tubes among an excess of untransformed, nonfluorescent tubes. Transient expression of marker genes did not affect pollen tube growth. Control pollen tubes transfected with expression vectors containing GFP and GUS coding sequences fused to the lat52 promoter showed normal morphology (Fig. CITATION, a–d) and elongated at the same rate as untransformed pollen tubes (data not shown). By contrast, transient expression of the catalytic domain of TcdB clearly inhibited tobacco pollen tube growth (Fig. CITATION, e–h). Together, these results indicate that tobacco pollen tubes contain at least one At-Rac2 homologue with an essential function in tube elongation. The function and the intracellular localization of Ras related small GTPases can be predictably altered by introducing specific mutations in conserved domains (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Sequences encoding wild-type and mutant forms of At-Rac2 (Fig. CITATION) were transiently expressed in growing tobacco pollen tubes under the control of the lat52 promoter. Coexpression of GFP was used to identify targeted tubes. Expression of dominant negative T20N-At-Rac2 strongly inhibited pollen tube extension (Fig. CITATION, i–l). After reaching a total length (tip to grain) of several 100 μm, T20N-At-Rac2–expressing pollen tubes stopped elongating. By contrast, expression of constitutive active G15V-At-Rac2 or Q64E-At-Rac2 caused germinating pollen tubes to form large, spherical balloons instead of elongating tubes (Fig. CITATION, m–p, and data not shown, respectively). Apparently, a complete loss of polarity of cell extension was induced. Wild-type At-Rac2 had similar although somewhat weaker effects (Fig. CITATION, q–t). After germination, pollen tubes elongated normally for a short while before tips started to form balloons. The balloons often had irregular shapes instead of being spherical, presumably because the potential for polarized growth was not completely abolished. At-Rac2ΔCSIL, lacking the COOH-terminal consensus prenylation domain known to be required for the membrane association of Ras related proteins, still induced depolarized tip growth but was clearly less effective than wild-type At-Rac2 (Fig. CITATION, u–x). These results demonstrate a key role of At-Rac2 homologous proteins in the regulation of polar pollen tube growth and indicate that membrane localization is essential for their activity. The best characterized function of Rho family proteins in animal and yeast cells is the regulation of actin organization (CITATION). Therefore, effects of transient expression of mutant At-Rac2 on the tobacco pollen tube actin cytoskeleton were examined. G15V-At-Rac2 or T20N-At-Rac2 were coexpressed in pollen tubes with a GFP-mouse talin fusion protein, which we have shown to label plant actin filaments in vivo in a specific and noninvasive manner (CITATION). The actin cytoskeleton in normally growing tobacco pollen tubes consists of thick, longitudinally oriented actin bundles in the shank and fine filamentous structures close to the tip (Fig. CITATION a; CITATION). An excessive number of thick actin cables arranged in a helical pattern was observed in balloons formed by G15V-At-Rac2–expressing pollen tubes (Fig. CITATION b). Expression of constitutive active At-Rac2 apparently induced actin polymerization or bundling and, possibly, reorientation of actin cables in the pollen tube tip. By contrast, actin bundles in pollen tubes expressing dominant negative T20N-At-Rac2 were generally finer and less organized than in control tubes, indicating that inhibition of pollen tube Rac activity may reduce actin bundling (Fig. CITATION c). As in other cell types, one of the functions of pollen tube Rac appears to be the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton. Analysis of pollen tube extracts revealed that a significant portion of the 21-kD tobacco pollen tube protein that interacts with the α-At-Rac antibody cofractionates with membranes, whereas the majority of the protein remains in the cytoplasmic fraction (Fig. CITATION a). A similar distribution of radiolabeled protein with the same size was observed when pollen tube extracts assayed for glucosylation by TcdB were fractionated (Fig. CITATION c). In control experiments, pollen tube actin showed a typical distribution between cytoplasmic and membrane fractions (Fig. CITATION b). To investigate the intracellular localization of pollen tube Rac in more detail, sequences encoding wild-type and mutant forms of At-Rac2 fused to the COOH terminus of GFP were transiently expressed in tobacco pollen tubes under the control of the lat52 promoter. A GFP cDNA was also expressed from the same promoter. Although somewhat weaker, effects of expressing the fusion proteins on pollen tube growth (Fig. CITATION, a–c) were very similar to those observed with untagged wild-type or mutant At-Rac2 (Fig. CITATION, m, q, and u). This indicates that the fusion proteins were functional and that analysis of their localization provided relevant information on the intracellular distribution of pollen tube Rac proteins. Tobacco pollen tubes expressing GFP or GFP fused to different forms of At-Rac2 were examined by confocal microscopy. GFP was found to be evenly distributed in the pollen tube cytoplasm (Fig. CITATION, b and c, and Fig. CITATION, h and l). Confocal optical sections through pollen tubes expressing GFP fused to constitutive active (Fig. CITATION, e and i) or to wild-type (Fig. CITATION, f and j) At-Rac2 revealed that these fusion proteins accumulated at the cell cortex exclusively in the tube tip, indicating that they associated with the plasma membrane specifically in this pollen tube region. The rest of the fusion proteins was evenly distributed in the cytoplasm (Fig. CITATION, e, f, i, and j). GFP fused to At-Rac2ΔCSIL did not show membrane association (Fig. CITATION, g and k) and was localized to the cytoplasm similar to GFP (Fig. CITATION, h and l). In summary, the results described here indicate that At-Rac2 homologues localize specifically to the plasma membrane at the pollen tube tip and confirm that the COOH-terminal prenylation domain is essential for their proper localization and function. PtdIns P-Ks and PtdIns 4, 5-P2 were identified as effectors of mammalian Rho family small GTPases (CITATION). Rac and Rho, both in the GTP- and in the GDP-bound conformation, have been demonstrated to physically interact with PtdIns P-K activity in mammalian cell extracts (CITATION; CITATION). We have tested the possibility that PtdIns P-Ks and PtdIns 4, 5-P2 act as Rac effectors also in pollen tubes. Experiments were performed to investigate whether At-Rac2 and its tobacco homologues bind to PtdIns P-K activity present in tobacco pollen tube extracts. Recombinant At-Rac2 fused to the COOH terminus of GST was loaded with the nonhydrolyzable nucleotide analogues GTPγS or GDPβS. Proteins interacting with nucleotide-bound GST-At-Rac2 were purified from tobacco pollen tube extracts and assayed for lipid kinase activity using [γ-32P]ATP and a mix of phosphoinositides as substrates. An excess of GST (Fig. CITATION a, bottom) was used in control experiments. Labeled lipids produced in kinase assays were analyzed by TLC and autoradiography. Fig. CITATION a (top) shows that significant amounts of radiolabeled PtdIns P2 were synthesized when proteins associated with GTPγS- or GDPβS-loaded GST-At-Rac2 were assayed, whereas minimal levels of PtdIns P2 production were detected in GST control samples. Similar results were obtained when purified PtdIns 4-P was used as a substrate instead of a mixture of phosphoinositides or when proteins coimmunoprecipitated with At-Rac2 homologues from tobacco pollen tube extracts by the α-At-Rac antibody were assayed (data not shown). The different PtdIns P2 isoforms identified to date in plant and/or animal cells, including PtdIns 4, 5-P2, PtdIns 3, 4-P2 and PtdIns 3, 5-P2 (CITATION; CITATION), are difficult to separate on TLC plates. Therefore, 32P-labeled lipid products of kinase binding assay performed as described above using a mix of phosphoinositides as substrates were deacylated and subjected to HPLC. Under conditions that allow clear separation of deacylated PtdIns P2 isoforms (glycerophospho-inositol-bisphosphates, GroPIns P2s; CITATION), 32P-labeled, deacylated assay products coeluted from HPLC columns with 3H-labeled GroPIns 4, 5-P2 used as a standard (Fig. CITATION b). The described results demonstrate that recombinant At-Rac2, both in the GTP- and in the GDP-bound conformation, as well as at least one of its tobacco homologues, physically associates with tobacco pollen tube PtdIns P-K activity, which synthesizes specifically PtdIns 4, 5-P2. The isolated PH-domain of PLC-δ1 has been shown to bind PtdIns 4, 5-P2 integrated into lipid membranes specifically and with high affinity, both in vitro (CITATION, CITATION) and in vivo (CITATION; CITATION). Under the control of the lat52 promoter, a sequence encoding a PLC-δ1 PH-domain GFP fusion protein (GFP-PLC-δ1-PH) was transiently expressed in tobacco pollen tubes. Consistent with a key role of PtdIns 4, 5-P2 in the regulation of pollen tube growth, moderate levels of GFP-PLC-δ1-PH expression were sufficient to strongly inhibit tobacco pollen germination and tube growth (Fig. CITATION a). Only weakly fluorescent GFP-PLC-δ1-PH–expressing pollen tubes were able to grow normally. Fluorescence emitted by these pollen tubes was too weak to be visible on micrographs like the one shown in Fig. CITATION a. Confocal optical sections through such pollen tubes revealed that GFP-PLC-δ1-PH accumulated at the plasma membrane in the tube tip (Fig. CITATION, e and i). Although GFP-PLC-δ1-PH appeared to label a somewhat smaller area, its localization in tobacco pollen tubes was strikingly similar to that of transiently expressed GFP-At-Rac2 fusion proteins (Fig. CITATION). Pollen tubes with GFP-PLC-δ1-PH labeling as shown in Fig. CITATION e were indistinguishable from untransformed control tubes in terms of morphology (Fig. CITATION e; data not shown) and growth rate (the average growth rate of 20 weakly fluorescent, GFP-PLC-δ1-PH– expressing pollen tubes was 5 μm/s, which is identical to the average growth rate of untransformed pollen tubes), demonstrating that the observed localization of the fusion protein provides information on a physiologically normal situation. A number of control experiments supported the view that the specific interaction of GFP-PLC-δ1-PH with PtdIns 4, 5-P2 caused inhibition of pollen tube growth and was responsible for the localization of the fusion protein to the plasma membrane at the tip. The free amino group of the lysine residue at position 32 in the PLC-δ1 PH-domain has been shown to form a direct hydrogen bond to the 4-phosphate of PtdIns 4, 5-P2 (CITATION). Replacement of this basic lysine residue by neutral leucine (K32L) or even by glutamic acid (K32E) was demonstrated to abolish the ability of PLC-δ1 to bind PtdIns 4, 5-P2 in membranes (CITATION). Neither GFP-PLC-δ1-PH-K32L (Fig. CITATION, f and j) nor GFP-PLC-δ1-PH-K32E (Fig. CITATION, g and k) detectably accumulated at the tip membrane when transiently expressed in tobacco pollen tubes. Whereas high level expression of GFP-PLC-δ1-PH-K32L still severely inhibited pollen tube growth (Fig. CITATION b), even brightly fluorescent tubes expressing GFP-PLC-δ1-PH-K32E could elongate rapidly and showed an essentially normal morphology (Fig. CITATION c; data not shown). The PH-domain of ARNO has been demonstrated to bind with a high degree of specificity to PtdIns 3, 4, 5-P3 (CITATION; CITATION), a lipid that has not been identified in plant cells to date (CITATION). Transient expression from the lat52 promoter of a cDNA sequence encoding the ARNO PH-domain fused to GFP did not significantly affect tobacco pollen tube growth (Fig. CITATION d). No accumulation of the GFP-ARNO-PH fusion protein at the plasma membrane was observed (Fig. CITATION, h and l). These results provide strong evidence for an essential function of PtdIns 4, 5-P2 in pollen tube elongation. Rac proteins, which physically interact with PtdIns 4, 5-P2 synthesizing PtdIns P-K activity, and PtdIns 4, 5-P2 both localize to the plasma membrane at the pollen tube tip. This suggests that Rac proteins, PtdIns P-K activity, and PtdIns 4, 5-P2 act together in a common pathway to regulate polar pollen tube growth.
!~MM~! An At-Rac1 cDNA (CITATION) probe was used to screen an A. thaliana whole-plant Uni-ZAP XR cDNA library (Stratagene). From phages containing hybridizing sequences, pBluescriptSK− phagemids were excised according to the manufacturer's protocol. By sequencing, a phagemid with an insert containing a full-length cDNA encoding an At-Rac1 homologue was identified. The sequence of this cDNA was deposited in the database (GenBank accession number AF107663) and the encoded protein was designated At-Rac2. The MegAlign software package (DNASTAR Inc.) and the Clustal method were used to align the amino acid sequences of At-Rac2 and of related proteins. An A. thaliana genomic library (CD 4–8; CITATION; obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, Columbus, OH) was screened with At-Rac1 and At-Rac2 cDNA probes. Genomic fragments that specifically hybridized with each probe were subcloned and partially sequenced. Clones containing sequences identical to At-Rac1 and At-Rac2 coding sequences were identified. These clones were later found to overlap with BAC clones sequenced as part of the ESSAII project. Clones M4E13 (GenBank accession number AL022023) and T19K4 (GenBank accession number AL022373) contain the genomic sequences of At-Rac1 or At-Rac2, respectively. pUCAP-GUS was constructed by cloning an expression cassette consisting of the 35S promoter, a GUS (β-glucuronidase) coding sequence interrupted by an intron (GUS-intron), and the nos poly A addition signal as an SalI fragment from pTJK136 (CITATION) into pUCAP (CITATION). Sequences upstream of the At-Rac1 and At-Rac2 coding regions were amplified by PCR from genomic clones using a polymerase with proofreading capability (Pfu polymerase; Stratagene). Primers were designed to amplify the entire At-Rac1 (∼1.1 kb) or At-Rac2 (∼1.9 kb) promoter regions from the ends of adjacent open reading frames (ORFs) to the beginning of the coding sequences and to introduce NcoI sites at the start codons. Amplified At-Rac promoters were fused via the NcoI site to the GUS-intron sequence by cloning restricted PCR fragments into pUCAP-GUS. Insertion of the At-Rac promoters replaced the 35S promoter originally present in this construct. The resulting plasmids were used to analyze promoter activity in growing pollen tubes in transient expression experiments. At-Rac1::GUS-intron::nos and At-Rac2::GUS-intron::nos expression cassettes were subcloned from these constructs as HindIII or XbaI fragments, respectively, into the binary vector pPZP211 (CITATION). Resulting plasmids were used to generate stably transformed A. thaliana lines. Sequences encoding At-Rac2 and At-Rac2ΔCSIL were amplified by PCR from the At-Rac2 cDNA in pBluescriptSK−. A DNA fragment encoding the NH2-terminal catalytic domain of Clostridium difficile toxin B (TcdB; amino acids 1–546) was also amplified by PCR using the construct “CDB1-546 in pGEX-2T” (CITATION) as a template. Primers were designed to create an ATG context optimal for gene expression in dicot plants (AACAATG; CITATION) and to introduce stop codons at the 3′ ends of the At-Rac2ΔCSIL and TcdB sequences. PCR fragments, after confirmation of error-free amplification by sequencing, as well as a GUS cDNA (derived from pBI121; CLONTECH Laboratories Inc.) were inserted into the pUCAP-based expression vector pLAT52MCS (CITATION) between the lat52 promoter and the nos poly A addition signal. QuikChange™ (Stratagene) PCR-based mutagenesis was used to create mutant sequences encoding G15V-At-Rac2, T20N-At-Rac2, and Q64E-At-Rac2. After sequence confirmation, mutated At-Rac2 cDNAs were subcloned into nonamplified pLAT52MCS. The cloning of sequences encoding green fluorescent protein (GFP) and GFP fused to the NH2 terminus of the mouse talin f-actin binding domain into pLAT52MCS was described earlier (CITATION). Into the same expression vector, sequences were inserted that encoded GFP fused to the NH2 terminus of the following polypeptides: At-Rac2, At-Rac2ΔCSIL, and G15V-At-Rac2 (sequences subcloned from the vectors described above); the PH-domain of human PLC-δ1 (amino acids 2–175 of PLC-δ1; sequence subcloned from “PLC-δ1-PH in Hiro3”; CITATION); and the PH-domain of ADP-ribosylation factor nucleotide-binding site opener (ARNO) (amino acids 262–399 of ARNO; sequence amplified from “ARNO in pEGFP-C1”, CITATION. The DraIII-SalI fragment at the 3′ end of the PCR product was found to contain a point mutation and was replaced by corresponding wild-type sequences from “ARNO-PH in pEGFP-C1”; the final construct was free of sequence errors). The GFP-PLC-δ1-PH sequence in pLAT52MCS was altered by QuikChange™ mutagenesis to sequences encoding GFP-PLC-δ1-PH-K32L and GFP-PLC-δ1-PH-K32E. Correct amplification of the regions encoding mutated versions of PLC-δ1-PH was confirmed by sequencing. Transgenic A. thaliana ecotype Landsberg erecta lines were generated as described in CITATION using the Agrobacterium vacuum-infiltration method developed by CITATION. T1 seeds were plated on MS medium (CITATION) containing 50 mg/liter kanamycin and 100 mg/liter cefotaxime. In vitro grown, kanamycin-resistant T1 plants at different developmental stages as well as pollen collected from such plants were analyzed for GUS expression as described below. For transient expression, genes were transferred into cultured tobacco pollen tubes by particle bombardment as described in CITATION. Coexpression of two genes was achieved by coating particles with equal amounts of each expression vector. To assay for GUS activity, A. thaliana plants and pollen grains were immersed for 12–18 h in a X-Gluc substrate solution. Assayed plants were extracted with ethanol to remove chlorophyll and improve visibility of the blue GUS reaction product. Destained plants were examined under a dissection microscope. Plant organs and pollen grains were mounted in water between slides and coverslips for observation at higher magnifications. To visualize transient GUS expression, X-Gluc solution (1 ml per plate) was evenly distributed on the surface of solid culture medium covered with pollen tubes grown from bombarded grains. After 2 h of incubation, squares of solid medium were cut out and flipped upside-down (pollen tubes in direct contact with the glass) onto coverslips. Stained plant organs, pollen grains, and pollen tubes were analyzed by bright-field transmitted light microscopy using an Axioscope (Carl Zeiss Inc.) microscope. Images were taken by 35-mm photography (64T film; Eastman Kodak Co.). Incubation in X-Gluc solution was performed at 37°C. All X-Gluc solutions were buffered with 0.1 M sodium phosphate at pH 7.0. Plants were incubated in a solution containing 0.2% X-Gluc (Jersey Lab and Gloves Supply), 0.1% Triton X-100, 5 mM potassium ferricyanide, 5 mM potassium ferrocyanide, and 6% N,N-dimethyl-formamide (DMF). The same solution supplemented with 5% mannitol was used for pollen tubes. Pollen grains were assayed in 0.1% X-Gluc, 0.1% Triton X-100, 3% DMF, and 5% mannitol. Epifluorescent images of GFP-expressing pollen tubes were taken through a 4× lens using a standard FITC filter set and an Axioscope microscope equipped with a 100-W mercury lamp. All images were obtained by exposing 400 ASA 35 mm film (EliteII; Eastman Kodak Co.) for 10–15 s. Confocal analysis of GFP expression was performed using an LSM410 inverted confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss Inc.) as outlined in CITATION. Methods used to determine pollen tube growth rates and techniques used for digital image processing are described in the same report. Intensity plots were created using the Scion Image software package (Scion Corp.). Recombinant glutathione S-transferase (GST) and GST fusion proteins were prepared as described by CITATION with some modifications. Synthesis of recombinant protein in Escherichia coli BL21 was induced by treatment with 0.5 mM IPTG for 2 h at 30°C. Cells were lysed and recombinant proteins were purified in PB buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl at pH 7.4; 250 mM NaCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 0.1 mM DTT). After purification, recombinant proteins on agarose beads were resuspended in PB buffer containing 50% glycerol, frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80°C. For GTP binding and kinase binding assays, recombinant proteins on agarose beads were loaded with nucleotides for 20 min at room temperature in loading buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl at pH 7.4; 25 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 0.5 mM DTT) containing 0.1 mM [γ-32P]GTP (6,000 Ci/mmol; New England Nuclear), GTPγS, or GDPβS (both Boehringer Mannheim), followed by addition of MgCl2 to a final concentration of 20 mM. GTP binding and GTPase activity assays were performed using protocols established by Self and Hall (CITATION and 1995b, respectively). Tobacco pollen tubes (1 g fresh weight) grown for 3 h in liquid PT medium (CITATION) were washed twice with a solution containing 150 mM potassium phosphate (pH 7.2), 0.4 M mannitol, and 150 mM NaCl. After resuspension in 5 ml lysis buffer, pollen tubes were passed twice through a Dounce homogenizer. If nothing else is indicated, a solution containing 10 mM Hepes (pH 7.4) and 0.8 M sorbitol was used as lysis buffer. All lysis buffers used were supplemented with a protease inhibitor cocktail (Complete™, EDTA-free; Boehringer Mannheim) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Polyclonal anti–At-Rac antiserum was obtained from rabbits immunogenized with GST-At-Rac1. Standard methods described in CITATION were used to affinity purify specific anti–At-Rac antibodies (α-At-Rac) on nitrocellulose membranes loaded by blotting with thrombin-treated, GST-free At-Rac1. Pollen tube and recombinant proteins were resolved by SDS-PAGE according to CITATION under reducing conditions using 12% gels. For immunoblotting, proteins were transferred onto PVDF membranes (Schleicher & Schuell). Membranes were incubated with primary antibodies, affinity-purified α-At-Rac (diluted 1:200) or a monoclonal mouse anti-actin antibody (Boehringer Mannheim; diluted 1:2,500), and secondary antibodies, peroxidase-conjugated goat anti–rabbit or goat anti–mouse antibodies (Boehringer Mannheim; diluted 1:5,000), for 1 h at room temperature in Tris-buffered saline (TBS; 25 mM Tris-HCl at pH 7.4; 137 mM NaCl, 5 mM KCl) supplemented with 4% BSA (A-3059; Sigma Chemical Co.). After incubation with primary and secondary antibodies, membranes were washed twice for 10 min with TBS containing 4% BSA and 0.02% Tween 20. After the final wash, membrane-associated peroxidase activity was visualized using the ECL kit (Boehringer Mannheim) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Pollen tube extracts were prepared as described above with homogenization performed in FB (50 mM triethanolamine at pH 7.8; 150 mM KCl, 1 mM DTT, 5 mM MgCl2, protease inhibitors). TcdB glucosylation reactions were carried out as described in CITATION. In brief, 0.5 μg TcdB (obtained from Ingo Just, Albert-Ludwigs-Universität, Freiburg, Germany) and 0.3 μCi UDP-[14C]-glucose (300 mCi/mmol; New England Nuclear) in FB buffer were added to extract containing 10 μg total pollen protein or to PB containing 1 μg recombinant GST-At-Rac2 to obtain a final volume of 20 μl. The reaction mix was scaled up to a total volume of 200 μl for immunoprecipitation experiments. Reactions were carried out at 37°C for 1 h. Products were resolved by SDS-PAGE either directly or after immunoprecipitation with affinity-purified α-At-Rac (diluted 1:20). Gels were incubated for 10 min in 1 M salicylic acid before drying. Pollen tube extracts were centrifuged for 10 min at 10,000 g to obtain a post-nuclear supernatant (PNS) with a protein concentration of ∼0.25 mg/ml. The resulting PNS was centrifuged at 100,000 g for 1 h (SW-55 Ti rotor; Beckman Instruments Inc.) to separate cytoplasmic (supernatant) and membrane (pellet) fractions. Pelleted membranes were resuspended in lysis buffer. Proteins contained in 20 μl of each PNS, cytoplasmic, and resuspended membrane fractions were analyzed by immunoblotting. TcdB glucosylation assays were carried out as described above using 5 μl of each fraction. Kinase binding assays were performed as described by CITATION with some modifications. Pollen tube extracts were prepared as described above with homogenization performed in buffer A (50 mM Tris-HCl at pH 7.4; 1% Triton X-100, 100 mM NaCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, protease inhibitors). Extracts were clarified by centrifugation at 13,000 g for 15 min at 4°C. Agarose beads bound to GST (25 μg protein) or to GST-At-Rac2 (2.5 μg protein) loaded with nucleotides as described above were added to 500 μl clarified extract (0.5 mg/ml total protein) and incubated for 2 h at 4°C. After incubation, beads were washed three times in buffer B (50 mM Tris-HCl at pH 7.4; 0.1% Triton X-100, 50 mM NaCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT) and once in buffer C (50 mM Tris-HCl at pH 7.4; 0.02% Triton X-100, 100 mM NaCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 0.1 mM EGTA, 1 mM DTT). After resuspension in buffer C during the last washing step, one-tenth of the total volume of each sample was analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Coomassie brilliant blue staining to verify concentration and quality of the recombinant proteins used. Washed beads were resuspended in 35 μl buffer C. Samples used to investigate effects of phosphatidic acid on At-Rac2–associated kinase activity were treated similarly, but Triton X-100 was omitted from all buffers except for buffer A. Beads in 35 μl buffer C were supplemented with 20 μg lipid substrates in 10 μl 10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, and incubated at room temperature for 10 min. Either PtdIns 4-P (P-9628; Sigma Chemical Co.) or a mix of phosphoinositides (P-6023; Sigma Chemical Co.) was used as a substrate. Some samples were supplemented with phosphatidic acid (P-9511; Sigma Chemical Co.) to a final concentration of 40 μM. Kinase reactions were started by adding 5 μl ATP buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl at pH 7.4; 5 mM MgCl2, 0.5 mM ATP, 10–25 μCi [γ-32P]ATP, 6,000 Ci/mmol; New England Nuclear) to each sample. After 7 min, reactions were stopped with 80 μl HCl (1 N). Lipids were extracted in 160 μl methanol/chloroform (1:1) by vigorous mixing for 1 min. Organic and aqueous phases were separated by centrifugation. The lower organic phase was washed with 260 μl HCl (1 N)/methanol/chloroform (48:47:3), concentrated under N2 to a volume of 20 μl and spotted on Oxalate-EDTA–impregnated silica gel plates (LK6D; Whatman Inc.). Chromatography was performed as described by CITATION. Radioactivity emitted from membranes, gels, or TLC plates was visualized using a PhosphorImager detection system (Molecular Dynamics). 32P-labeled products of kinase binding assays performed as described above using a mix of phosphoinositides as lipid substrate were deacylated, mixed with 3H-labeled standards, and analyzed by anion-exchange HPLC using a Partisphere SAX column (Whatman) as described by CITATION. Elution of assay products and standards was detected simultaneously using an on-line continuous flow scintillation detector (Radiomatic® FSA; Packard Instrument Co.).
