!~ABS~! Phytochrome is a ubiquitous photoreceptor of plants and is encoded by a small multigene family. We have shown recently that a functional nuclear localization signal may reside within the COOH-terminal region of a major member of the family, phytochrome B (phyB) (Sakamoto, K., and A. Nagatani. 1996. Plant J. 10:859–868). In the present study, a fusion protein consisting of full-length phyB and the green fluorescent protein (GFP) was overexpressed in the phyB mutant of Arabidopsis to examine subcellular localization of phyB in intact tissues. The resulting transgenic lines exhibited pleiotropic phenotypes reported previously for phyB overexpressing plants, suggesting that the fusion protein is biologically active. Immunoblot analysis with anti-phyB and anti-GFP monoclonal antibodies confirmed that the fusion protein accumulated to high levels in these lines. Fluorescence microscopy of the seedlings revealed that the phyB-GFP fusion protein was localized to the nucleus in light grown tissues. Interestingly, the fusion protein formed speckles in the nucleus. Analysis of confocal optical sections confirmed that the speckles were distributed within the nucleus. In contrast, phyB-GFP fluorescence was observed throughout the cell in dark-grown seedlings. Therefore, phyB translocates to specific sites within the nucleus upon photoreceptor activation.
!~RES~! To examine biological activity and intracellular localization of the phyB-GFP fusion protein, the phyB-5 mutant of Arabidopsis was transformed with a vector harboring the 35S::PHYB-GFP construct. The resulting transgenic lines, PBG-5 and PBG-7, exhibited an overall dwarfing of mature plants under continuous white light (Fig. CITATION, b–e). They flowered a few days later than the wild-type under the conditions tested. Similar phenotypes, which are opposite to those of the phyB-deficient mutants (CITATION), have been reported in phyB overaccumulating plants (CITATION). Hence, the phyB-GFP fusion protein is likely to be fully functional. It is known that inhibition of hypocotyl elongation by continuous red light is mediated primarily by phyB (CITATION). To confirm the biological activity of phyB-GFP further, heterozygous progeny of the PBG-5 plant was examined for this response. The seedlings were grown under continuous red light for 5 d and hypocotyl lengths were determined. As shown in Fig. CITATION, a short population segregated from a longer one at about a 3:1 ratio. Hypocotyl lengths in the longer population matched well with those in the parental phyB mutant. In contrast, the shorter seedlings were significantly shorter than the wild-type seedlings, which is consistent with the phyB overexpression phenotypes reported by other groups (CITATION; CITATION). Cosegregation of the short phenotype with the expression of phyB-GFP was then examined. As expected, all the short seedlings exhibited GFP fluorescence whereas no fluorescence was observed in the longer seedlings (Fig. CITATION). The seedling phenotype was examined in darkness as well. As is the case with the phyB overexpressing plants (CITATION), no clear segregation of shorter seedlings was observed in the PBG-5 heterozygous progeny (Fig. CITATION). The average hypocotyl lengths in the fluorescent and nonfluorescent populations were indistinguishable. Hence, phyB-GFP was suggested to be not only biologically but also photochemically active. To examine the accumulation of phyB-GFP fusion protein in the transgenic plants, immunoblot analysis was performed. Proteins were extracted from rosette leaves of the PBG-5 plants and probed with anti-phyB and anti-GFP antibodies (Fig. CITATION). The anti-phyB mAb detected a major band of ∼143 kD in the PBG-5 extracts (Fig. CITATION, left). The size was consistent with the expected mass of the phyB-GFP fusion protein. A band at the same size was detected with the anti-GFP antibody (Fig. CITATION, right), confirming that the band represented the phyB-GFP fusion protein. The higher intensity of the phyB-GFP band compared with that of the authentic phyB indicated that the phyB-GFP was overaccumulated in the transgenic plants. A similar result was obtained for the other transgenic line, PBG-7 (data not shown). In addition to the major 143-kD band, a weak band of ∼123 kD was detected in the PBG-5 plants (Fig. CITATION). The intensity of the band was comparable to that of authentic phyB. To confirm that the fragment is larger than the authentic phyB (117 kD on the blot), extracts from the PBG-5 and the wild-type plants were mixed and probed with the anti-phyB antibody. As expected, the two bands were separated on the blot. Since the fragment was not detected with anti-GFP antibody, it is speculated that proteolysis of phyB-GFP within the GFP portion yielded this fragment. In accordance with this, minor bands around 20 kD were detected on the anti-GFP blot. In the absence of the protease inhibitor cocktails, fragmentation was much more severe (data not shown). Hence, the 123-kD fragment is likely to be produced by the residual proteolytic activity in the extract during the extraction procedure. Intracellular localization of the phyB-GFP fusion protein in the PBG-5 seedlings was examined. Epidermal layers including cortex were peeled from the light-grown seedlings and observed under a fluorescence microscope. At lower magnification, bright green spots of GFP fluorescence were observed (Fig. CITATION, a–c). Positions of the spots matched well with those of the nuclei revealed by the Hoechst staining. Similar fluorescence images were obtained for another transgenic line, PBG-7 (data not shown). Interestingly, observation at higher magnification revealed that the phyB-GFP fluorescence was speckled within the nuclear region (Fig. CITATION, d–f). The apparent size of each speckle appeared to be <1 μm. Although speckles were observed in all of the nuclei, the number per nucleus varied. In most cases, one nucleus contained 5–10 speckles. The intracellular localization of phyB-GFP was then examined in other parts of the seedling. As shown in Fig. CITATION, nuclear fluorescence was confirmed in leaf (Fig. CITATION, a–c), root (Fig. CITATION, d–f), and root hair cells (Fig. CITATION, g–i). Furthermore, the speckles were observed in all of the cell types examined. To determine the spatial distribution pattern of the speckles within the nucleus, optical sectioning of the cell with a confocal microscope was performed (Fig. CITATION). For this purpose, trichomes were chosen for observation because of the large size of their nuclei. As shown in Fig. CITATION, the speckles appeared to be distributed more or less evenly in the nucleus. In this particular case, at least 24 spots were recognized. This is probably due to the large size of the trichome nucleus. The images clearly demonstrated that the size of each speckle varied substantially even within one nucleus. A previous study suggested that the nuclear localization of phyB is light dependent (CITATION). In accordance with this, weak fluorescence was observed throughout the cell in PBG-5 dark-grown seedlings (Fig. CITATION, a–e). Since the intensity of fluorescence was low, it was difficult to determine the intracellular localization in detail. However, higher intensity in the peripheries of the cells indicated that phyB-GFP was distributed in the cytoplasm. Those cells were highly vacuolated and the cytoplasm was observed mostly in the peripheral region, as observed by DIC microscopy (Fig. CITATION b). In some cells, fluorescence was observed not only in the peripheries but also in the nuclear region (Fig. CITATION, a–e). However, it was difficult to conclude that the phyB-GFP exists inside the nucleus even by confocal observation (data not shown). Intracellular distribution of phyB-GFP in the light and darkness was compared in root tip cells with a confocal microscope. As shown in Fig. CITATION j, the speckles of fluorescence were observed in light-grown seedlings. In contrast, relatively uniform fluorescence was observed in the peripheries of the cells in dark-grown seedlings (Fig. CITATION i), which provided further evidence that phyB-GFP was distributed outside the nucleus and throughout the cell in darkness. The time course of nuclear accumulation of phyB-GFP during the dark to light transition was followed. The PBG-5 dark-grown seedlings were transferred under continuous red light. As shown in Fig. CITATION, nuclear fluorescence was not clear at time 0 (Fig. CITATION, a and b). After 2 h in red light, the intensity of the nuclear GFP signal was increased (Fig. CITATION, c and d). However, fluorescence remained detectable in the periphery of the cells. Speckles in the nucleus were rarely observed at this time point, although a few tiny spots were detected in some cases. After 4 h in red light, many small speckles were observed (Fig. CITATION, e and f). Fluorescence in the cell periphery was greatly reduced. After 6 h in red light, the speckles became larger but the number per nucleus was reduced (Fig. CITATION, g and h). Hence, translocation of phyB-GFP to the nucleus appeared to be completed within 4–6 h in hypocotyl cells under continuous red light. In the course of these experiments, we noticed that the translocation took longer in root cells, although the reason for this was not clear (data not shown).
!~MM~! The phyB-5 mutant (CITATION) of Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype, Landsberg er) was used as the host for transformation. Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Landsberg er) and the phyB-5 mutant were used as controls for physiological, immunochemical, and microscopic experiments. A full-length PHYB cDNA clone was isolated from an Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) cDNA library. Cloned PHYB cDNA was almost identical to a previously reported sequence (accession number X17342, submitted by Dr. R. Sharrock, Montana State University, Bozeman, MT) except that a C to T substitution at the base position 971, which does not cause amino acid difference, was detected. To construct the PHYB-GFP fusion sequence, PHYB translational termination codon (TAG) was replaced with an oligonucleotide sequence (GGAGGTGGAGGTATCGAT) by PCR. This oligonucleotide introduces a unique ClaI restriction site at its 3′ terminus. The GFP clone (blue-sGFP-TYG-nos KS) (CITATION) was a kind gift from Dr. J. Sheen (Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA). This clone contains a unique ClaI restriction site that shortly precedes the ATG start codon of the GFP gene. The PHYB and GFP clones were ligated at the ClaI restriction site to generate PHYB-GFP translational fusion. As the result, an oligoamino acid sequence (GGGGIDKLDP) was inserted between the phyB and GFP amino acid sequences (Fig. CITATION a). This PHYB-GFP chimeric cassette was inserted between the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the Nos terminator of an Agrobacterium transformation vector pBI-Hyg/35S-NosT, which is derived from another transformation vector pBI101-Hm (a gift from Dr. Kenzo Nakamura, Nagoya University, Japan) by removing its uidA gene (Nakamura, M., unpublished observation). The resulting vector was designated pBI-Hyg/35S-PHYB-sGFP-NosT (Fig. CITATION a). Arabidopsis phyB mutant was transformed using Agrobacterium-mediated in planta transformation (CITATION). Transformed plants were selected on the medium containing 25 mg ml−1 hygromycin B (Boehringer Mannheim) and 166 mg ml−1 claforan (Hoechst). The transgenic lines PBG-5 and PBG-7 were selected from the drug-resistant lines by phyB immunoblotting and GFP epifluorescence microscopy. For growth of plants, seeds were sown on 0.6% agar plates containing the Murashige-Skoog medium with 2% (wt/vol) sucrose and grown under continuous white light from fluorescent tubes (FLR40SW/M-B; Hitachi). The plants were then transplanted to pots containing vermiculite and grown to maturity under continuous white light from fluorescent tubes. For the immunochemical detection of the fusion protein, rosette leaves were harvested from 3-wk-old plants. For the hypocotyl assay and microscopic observation, seeds were sown on agar plates containing Murashige-Skoog salt mixture without sucrose. The plates were placed at 4°C for 12 h and then irradiated with continuous white light for 12 h at 23°C to induce germination. For the hypocotyl assay, seedlings were grown for 5 d under continuous red light (6.0 W m−2) from red fluorescent tubes (FL20S/R-F; National) or in darkness. For microscopic observation, seedlings were grown for 5 d under continuous white light (15 W m−2) from fluorescent tubes (FLR40SW/M-B; Hitachi) or in darkness. To detect the phyB-GFP fusion protein and the authentic phyB, ∼0.1 g of rosette leaves was glass homogenized in the presence of 0.1 ml of the phytochrome extraction buffer (100 mM Tris-HCl, 2 mM DTT, 5 mM EDTA, pH 8.3) containing proteinase inhibitor cocktails for general use (P2714; Sigma Chemical Co.) and for fungal and yeast extracts (P8215; Sigma Chemical Co.) at the concentrations recommended by the manufacturer. Debris was removed by centrifugation. Proteins were concentrated from the crude homogenate by ammonium sulfate precipitation. The precipitated protein was dissolved in the SDS-PAGE sample buffer and subjected to immunoblot analysis (CITATION). Antibodies used were an anti-phyB mAb, mBA2 (CITATION), and an anti-GFP mAb (Clontech). Molecular weight markers (prestained SDS molecular weight standard mixture) were from Sigma Chemical Co. Arabidopsis seedlings were soaked in 2 μg ml−1 Hoechst No. 33342 (Sigma Chemical Co.) solution made in H2O for visualization of the nucleus in some experiments. Epidermal layers including cortex were peeled from the hypocotyls and placed on glass slides. For the other parts of seedlings, whole organs were placed on glass slides and pressed gently. The specimens were observed using an Olympus BX60 microscope equipped with ×20, ×40, and ×100 objectives, differential interference contrast (DIC) optics, and a 100-W mercury arc light source. Fluorescence was filtered using UV (U-MWU) or FITC (U-MNIBA) filter sets (Olympus). For confocal microscopy, trichomes were removed from the surface of cotyledons with a razor blade and placed on glass slides. Root tips were placed on glass slides without any pretreatment. The specimens were observed using an inverted laser scan microscope (LSM410 invert; Carl Zeiss Jena) equipped with ×40 and ×63 objectives. The laser scan images were obtained with a combination of 488 nm laser excitation and 515 nm longpass emission filter (LP515; Carl Zeiss Jena). Sequential images from different focus planes were recorded automatically.
