!~ABS~! We have cloned a novel nuclear gene for a ribosomal protein of rice and Arabidopsis that is like the bacterial ribosomal protein S9. To determine the subcellular localization of the gene product, we fused the N-terminal region and green fluorescent protein and expressed it transiently in rice seedlings. Localized fluorescence was detectable only in chloroplasts, indicating that this nuclear gene encodes chloroplast ribosomal protein S9. The N-terminal region of rice ribosomal protein S9 was found to have a high sequence similarity to the transit peptide region of the rice chloroplast ribosomal protein L12, suggesting that these transit peptides have a common lineage.
!~RES~! Genes for RPS9 have been identified in many bacterial genomes CITATION. Similar genes have also been identified in the yeast nuclear genome (for mitochondrial RPS9 (MRPS9): CITATION) and in the chloroplast genomes of lower unicellular plants CITATION. In Escherichia coli, the RPS9 is cross-linked to the L5 and L18 proteins of the large subunit. It was concluded that the S9 protein is located at the interface between the small and large subunits CITATION. The chloroplast genome of rice CITATION contains no gene encoding chloroplast RPS9. To address the possibility that the rps9 gene was transferred from the chloroplast genome to the nucleus and the possibility that it is transcribed in the nucleus, we sequenced the rps9 gene as follows. cDNA clones were screened from a rice cDNA library as described in CITATION. As a result, eight clones were isolated and a sequence analysis revealed that the longest clone contained an open reading frame (ORF) of 223 amino acid residues (CITATION, DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank accession number AB022675). It is generally known that amino acid sequences of chloroplast ribosomal proteins are more similar to bacterial homologues than to mitochondrial homologues. The deduced amino acid sequence of the rice cDNA showed 48 and 44% identities with cyanobacterium RPS9 CITATION and E. coli RPS9 CITATION, respectively (CITATION). Rice RPS9 showed a higher similarity to cyanobacterial RPS9 than to E. coli RPS9, suggesting that this gene comes from the chloroplast genome. Long N-terminal extensions were observed in the rice nuclear gene for RPS9, suggesting that the extended region contains the targeting signal for chloroplasts or mitochondria. In fact, the first 48 amino acids of rice RPS9 are enriched for serine, threonine and arginine residues and contain no acidic residues. This biased amino acid composition is a common hallmark of both mitochondrial and chloroplast targeting sequences CITATION. We analyzed the N-terminal region of rice RPS9 with the computer program PSORT CITATION. PSORT predicted that this region, which we presumed to be a chloroplast transit peptide, is a mitochondrial matrix targeting sequence. To determine the subcellular localization of the rice rps9 product in living cells, a recombinant plasmid (termed OsRPS9TP-GFP) was constructed in which the first 98 codons of the rice RPS9 cDNA, encoding the putative targeting peptide region, were fused to the encoding sequence of GFP CITATION. This OsRPS9TP-GFP recombinant plasmid was introduced into rice sheath epidermal cells by particle bombardment. As shown in CITATION, transient expression of GFP could be only detected in a bombarded cell (the central area of the photograph) surrounded by normal cells. Confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed that GFP fluorescence was localized exclusively in oval structures of 3–8 μm in diameter (CITATION), that perfectly matched the red autofluorescence of chlorophyll (CITATION), demonstrating that OsRPS9TP-GFP fusion protein is efficiently targeted to chloroplasts in this system. Both GFP fusion protein with a mitochondrial presequence and GFP by itself showed subcellular localization patterns that are quite different from the localization pattern of OsRPS9TP-GFP (data not shown). Thus, we concluded that rice RPS9 encoded by rps9 is a chloroplast ribosomal protein. To compare rps9 with orthologues of other higher plant species, a homology search was performed on the EST database. One EST clone (GenBank accession number T13861) was found to have a high homology with a portion of rice rps9. This EST clone was from the Arabidopsis poly(A)+ RNA and was expected to encode the full length of the encoding sequence of Arabidopsis rps9. We obtained this clone from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center and sequenced it completely (DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank accession number AB022676). The amino acid sequence deduced from the Arabidopsis cDNA showed 79, 54 and 47% identities with the deduced sequences of rice RPS9 (this study), cyanobacterium RPS9 and E. coli RPS9, respectively (CITATION). The sequences of many bacterial RPS9s have been reported CITATION. These sequences show a high similarity in the C-terminal 124 amino acids (CITATION and data not shown). In the adjacent upstream region, there is no similarity between the RPS9s of plants (rice and Arabidopsis) and those of bacteria, but we found a region that was highly conserved in rice and Arabidopsis (78.95% identity, 15/19 amino acids). The Arabidopsis nuclear gene for RPS9 was found to have a long N-terminal extension. This sequence, based on the properties of mitochondrial and chloroplast targeting peptides CITATION, is more similar to a chloroplast transit peptide than a mitochondrial transit peptide. Though the rice and Arabidopsis RPS9s showed a high similarity in the core region (79%), the N-terminal extensions of rice and Arabidopsis RPS9 (except for the plant-specific conserved region) did not show a significant sequence similarity and also differed in their lengths. The nucleotide sequence of the N-terminal extension of rice rps9, which showed little similarity to that of Arabidopsis, was used to search for homologues in the sequence databases. High similarity was found with the transit peptide regions of the nuclear-encoded chloroplast RPL12 from rice (rpl12-1 and rpl12-2: CITATION) and rye (rpl12-1 and rpl12-2: CITATION). The rpl12-1 and rpl12-2 genes of rice (and rye) are thought to be paralogous genes encoding L12 protein. Among these four nucleotide sequences, the rice rpl12-2 transit peptide region showed the highest homology, 80.54% (120/149 nucleotides: CITATION) to the rice rps9 N-terminal region. A slightly lower homology was found between the N-terminal region of rice rpl12-1 (sequence not shown) and that of rice rpl12-2 (72.60%). The amino acid sequence of the N-terminal region of RPS9 was also the closest to that of the transit peptide region of rice RPL12-2 (42% identity and 72% similarity per 50 amino acids: CITATION). These high similarities between the nucleotide and amino acid sequences suggest that the transit peptides of rice rps9 and rpl12 have a common evolutionary origin.
!~MM~! A rice cDNA library was constructed from 10 day old seedlings and screened as previously described CITATION. The probe used to isolate rice rps9 was prepared as follows. Reverse-transcribed (RT)-PCR was performed to amplify the rice cDNA fragments that encode S9 from poly(A)+ RNA, isolated from 10 day old rice seedlings. Primers used for RT-PCR were designed based on the bacterial rps9-like sequences in rice that were found in the course of random cDNA sequencing. The amplified fragments were cloned to pBluescript SK− (Stratagene) and sequenced to confirm that they were genuine parts of this gene. The fragments amplified by RT-PCR were labelled by digoxigenin as described in the instruction manual of the DIG-System (Roche) and used as probes. DNA sequences were determined by the dideoxynucleotide chain termination method with an automated DNA sequencer (model 373, Perkin Elmer ABD). The sequences were determined on both strands. The nucleotide sequences and the deduced amino acid sequences were aligned with the CLUSTAL W algorithm CITATION. The following oligonucleotides were used as primers for amplification by RT-PCR: a, 5′-GGTTTGCTGACAAGAGACAC-3′; b, 5′-CAGATAATTGCCTTTTGTGACC-3′ and for OsRPS9TP-GFP construction: c, 5′-AT GTCGAC GATGGCGCTCTCCCTCACC-3′; d, 5′-TA CCATGG TCCGCTGCGCCGCGAAG-3′. The underlined sequences show recognition sites of the restriction enzymes SalI and NcoI. The targeting sequence corresponding to the first 98 amino acids of rice rps9 was PCR-amplified from cloned genes by using oligonucleotides that contained either a NcoI site or a SalI site. The amplified fragments were digested with NcoI or SalI and cloned in-frame into the NcoI and SalI sites of the GFP expression vector S65TGFP (CaMV35Spro::S65TGFP::NOSpolyA) (a gift from Dr Y. Niwa, Shizuoka University) CITATION. The sequence of the resulting plasmid, termed OsRPS9TP-GFP, was checked by sequencing. 10 μg of OsRPS9TP-GFP plasmid was precipitated onto 1.0 μm spherical gold beads (Bio-Rad). Sheaths from 10 day old rice green seedlings were cut into 3 cm long pieces and laid onto Petri plates containing solid media (0.5% GelRite agarose, pH 5.5, in water). 10 sheaths were bombarded at a time with three replicates using a PDS-1000 (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. After bombardment, the sheaths were placed on a benchtop for 24 h. Transformed rice sheath epidermal cells were examined with a Bio-Rad confocal laser scanning microscope (Micro-Radiance MR/AG-2: Bio-Rad). The samples were illuminated with an argon ion laser using the 488 nm band for green fluorescent protein (GFP) or a green HeNe laser using the 543 nm band for chlorophyll autofluorescence. The final image was usually obtained by averaging three scans.
