!~ABS~! Systemic acquired resistance (SAR) is a plant immune response induced after a local infection by necrotizing pathogens. The Arabidopsis NPR1 gene is a positive regulator of SAR, essential for transducing the SAR signal salicylic acid (SA). Mutations in the NPR1 gene abolish the SA-induced expression of pathogenesis-related (PR) genes and resistance to pathogens. To identify additional regulators of SAR, we screened for suppressors of npr1-1 . In the npr1-1 background, the sni1 ( s uppressor of n pr1-1, i nducible 1) mutant shows near wild-type levels of PR1 expression and resistance to pathogens after induction. Restoration of SAR in npr1-1 by the recessive sni1 mutation indicates that wild-type SNI1 may function as a negative regulator of SAR. We cloned the SNI1 gene and found that it encodes a leucine-rich nuclear protein.
!~RES~! Seeds of npr1-1 containing the BGL2-GUS reporter gene were mutagenized with ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS), and suppressors of the npr1-1 mutation were screened in the M2 population for restored expression of the SAR-responsive BGL2-GUS in the presence of the SAR inducer INA (0.1 mM). Of 7000 M2 plants examined, 13 (representing at most 11 loci based on the complementation and recombination tests) showed an increase in BGL2-GUS expression after induction by INA and were designated sni mutants. In particular, the sni1 mutant plants exhibited sporadic, weak GUS staining under uninduced conditions but consistent, strong GUS staining after induction by INA (CITATION). GUS activity in sni1 was detected most strongly in the veins of both leaves and roots, whereas in wild-type, uniform GUS staining was detected in leaves while no GUS staining was seen in roots. To confirm the effects of sni mutations on the expression of endogenous PR genes and to rule out possible mutants of the BGL2-GUS reporter gene, RNA blot analysis was performed on all sni mutants to identify those that restored inducible PR1 gene expression in the npr1-1 background. Among these mutants, only sni1 expressed the PR1 gene at levels similar to the wild type under INA induction (CITATION). Consistent with BGL2-GUS reporter gene expression (CITATION), a higher background expression of PR1 was detected in the sni1 mutant without induction. The sni1 npr1-1 double mutant (BGL2-GUS) was backcrossed with SNI1 npr1-1 (BGL2-GUS), and the resulting F1 progeny lost the inducible BGL2-GUS expression, suggesting that sni1 is recessive. These F1 plants were then allowed to self-fertilize, and the F2 plants were assayed for the presence or the absence of INA-induced GUS expression. Of 112 F2 plants examined, 27 had strong GUS staining, while the rest had no staining, demonstrating that the sni1 phenotype results from a single nuclear mutation (χ2 = 0.047; P > 0.5). Genetic crosses revealed that sni1 is also capable of suppressing other npr1 mutant alleles (data not shown). Complementation tests showed that sni1 is not allelic to other sni mutants (data not shown). The sni1 npr1-1 double mutant was also crossed with wild-type plants (SNI1 NPR1) containing the BGL2-GUS reporter gene, and the F1 progeny lost the background expression of BGL2-GUS under uninduced conditions but showed wild-type GUS staining after INA induction. The F2 plants were also examined for segregation of inducible BGL2-GUS expression to determine whether the sni1 phenotype is caused by a reversion of npr1-1 or by a second-site mutation. If sni1 is linked to npr1-1, all F2 progeny should show inducible BGL2-GUS expression. However, of 181 plants tested, 148 showed strong GUS staining, while 33 displayed no detectable GUS staining after INA treatment, indicating that sni1 is not linked to npr1-1 (expected ratio: 13:3; χ2 = 0.032; P > 0.5). The sni1 NPR1 single mutant expressed PR1 and BGL2-GUS at a higher level (3-fold) than the sni1 npr1-1 double mutant under induced conditions (CITATION). This difference in the INA-induced PR expression between sni1 npr1-1 and sni1 NPR1 implies that NPR1 function is still required for high-level PR gene induction in the sni1 mutant. Ectopic GUS staining was also detected in the roots of the sni1 NPR1 plants (CITATION), as seen in sni1 npr1-1. Both sni1 npr1 and sni1 NPR1 plants are smaller than wild type (CITATION). In sni1 seedlings, the emerging first pair of true leaves are much narrower than those of the wild type (data not shown). These phenotypes were found to cosegregate with sni1 and shown later by complementation analysis to be caused by sni1. In sni1 mutant plants, no macroscopic or microscopic lesions were detected by trypan blue staining, even after an INA treatment (data not shown), indicating that cell death is not involved in causing the sni1 phenotype. The endogenous levels of SA in sni1 NPR1 were measured under noninducing conditions and after infection by an SAR-inducing pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. maculicola ES4326/avr Rpt2 (Psm ES4326/avr Rpt2). The results showed that both the baseline and the induced levels of SA found in sni1 (0.4 ± 0.004 μg/g and 1.3 ± 0.45 μg/g, respectively) are comparable to those of the wild type (0.2 ± 0.008 μg/g and 1.7 ± 0.69 μg/g, respectively). The sensitivity of sni1 NPR1 and sni1 npr1-1 mutants to SA and INA was measured by a quantitative assay of the BGL2-GUS reporter gene expression. As shown in CITATION, wild type displayed the highest level of BGL2-GUS expression at 0.1 mM INA, a concentration normally used for SAR induction, while npr1-1 remained nonresponsive to INA. However, in the sni1 NPR1 and sni1 npr1-1 mutants, maximum levels of BGL2-GUS expression were reached at a concentration (0.01 mM) ten times lower than in the wild type. Similar results were obtained when SA was used as the inducer (data not shown). In comparing sni1 NPR1 and sni1 npr1-1, higher levels of BGL2-GUS were detected for sni NPR1, indicating that a functional NPR1 is required for maximum induction of the reporter gene. The effect of sni1 on pathogen resistance in the npr1-1 or NPR1 background was tested using both the bacterial pathogen Psm ES4326, which causes leaf spots, and the oomycete pathogen Peronospora parasitica Noco2, which results in downy mildew on uninduced wild-type plants. After INA induction, wild-type plants became resistant to these two pathogens, while npr1-1 remained susceptible (CITATION and CITATION). Strikingly, the sni1 npr1-1 double mutant displayed induced resistance similar to that of wild type, indicating that the sni1 mutation restored SAR in npr1-1. This dramatic effect of sni1 on resistance was, however, undetectable in the wild-type NPR1 background, as shown by the wild-type-like pathogen growth profiles observed in sni1 NPR1. Although background expression of PR genes is elevated in both sni1 npr1-1 and sni1 NPR1, this is evidently not enough to confer resistance against the two pathogens at the concentrations used in these infection experiments. Induction by INA or SA is required to render sni1 plants resistant to Psm ES4326 and P. parasitica Noco2. To map the sni1 locus, sni1 npr1-1 was crossed with wild type (SNI1 NPR1) in a polymorphic genetic background. In the resulting F2 population, progeny homozygous at the sni1 locus, identified using the morphological phenotypes of sni1, were examined using various CAPS (codominant c leaved a mplified p olymorphic s equences) markers (CITATION). The sni1 locus was mapped to chromosome IV between markers AG and g3883-1.4. It was shown to be tightly linked to marker ch42, with which no recombinants were discovered among the 718 progeny examined (CITATION). The ch42 sequence is located in the middle of the bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clone F28J12, which has been completely sequenced. Thus, more CAPS markers were generated on both sides of ch42 according to the sequence information, and markers XL7 and XL3 were used to narrow down the interval containing sni1 to a 43.3 kb region. Two cosmid libraries covering the 43.3 kb region were generated from F28J12 using the binary vector pCLD04541 (carrying the kanamycin resistance for selection) or pSLJ75516 (carrying the herbicide glufosinate ammonium, or “basta,” resistance for selection), and a cosmid contig spanning the sni1 region was generated (CITATION). Complementation of the sni1 mutation was observed when cosmid clones 4, 7, and 6-22 were transformed into sni1 npr1-1 mutants. In these transformants, which are sni1 npr1-1::SNI1, expression of PR1 and the BGL2-GUS reporter was completely inhibited, as seen in the npr1-1 mutant (CITATION). The transformants also displayed susceptibility to both Psm ES4326 and P. parasitica Noco2 even after INA induction (CITATION). When the cosmids containing SNI1 were transformed into the sni1 NPR1 single mutant, the background expression of PR genes was repressed; the plants behaved like wild type, showing inducible PR gene expression (CITATION). The T2 progeny of the complementing lines all segregated for the SNI1 and sni1 phenotypes, which corresponded to the presence and absence of the selective markers, respectively. This indicated that these were true complementing transformants rather than contaminants from either npr1-1 or wild type. Transgenic plants containing cosmids other than clones 4, 7, and 6-22 showed the sni1 mutant phenotype. The genomic insert in cosmid 4 was analyzed and the sequences of wild type and sni1 compared. In the entire 15 kb region represented by the insert, only one mutation (G to A) was identified. A number of PCR primer pairs were then used to perform RT-PCR to identify the cDNA sequence in the region flanking the sni1 mutation. The resulting RT-PCR fragment was labeled and used to screen a cDNA library (CITATION). From 106 plaques screened, one cDNA clone was isolated and shown to contain an almost full-length coding sequence for SNI1, missing only 11 nucleotides of the 5′ end that were later determined by RT-PCR and sequencing. A full-length cDNA clone was generated by PCR, and the functionality of this cDNA clone was confirmed by its ability to complement the sni1 mutation when it was expressed, under the control of the 35S promoter of cauliflower mosaic virus, in stable transformants (data not shown). Sequence analysis predicted that SNI1 encodes a novel protein of 432 amino acids (CITATION) with a molecular weight (MW) of 48.8 kDa. Hydropathy plot analysis indicated that SNI1 is a soluble protein with no obvious transmembrane domains. A survey of the amino acid sequence showed that SNI1 is a leucine-rich protein (12.7%). A database search for homologs yielded one EST clone isolated from cotton (accession number AI054954), implying that SNI1 may be conserved in plants. Even though no substantial homology was found between SNI1 and any known proteins, a short stretch of homology was discovered with the mouse retinoblastoma (Rb) protein (CITATION; CITATION), a tumor suppressor that represses the transcription regulated by transcription factors such as E2F (CITATION). Comparison of the cDNA sequence and the genomic sequence revealed that the SNI1 gene consists of 15 exons. The G to A mutation in sni1 occurred in the 3′ intron acceptor site at the junction between the fifth intron and the sixth exon. RT-PCR and sequence analysis of the sni1 mutant showed that the mutation caused an 11 nucleotide deletion in the cDNA, resulting in a frameshift early in the coding region (CITATION, amino acid residue 140). This misspliced mRNA was the predominant transcript made from the sni1 gene because no wild-type transcript was detected using RT-PCR in the sni1 mutant. RNA blot analysis using poly A+ RNA detected a very faint band of approximately 1500 nucleotides in both uninduced and induced wild-type plants (data not shown). Transgenic Arabidopsis lines were generated carrying a SNI1 promoter fusion to the GUS reporter gene. Very weak GUS staining was detected mainly in the veins. INA treatment seemed to have no effect on the staining pattern (data not shown). To determine the subcellular localization of the SNI1 protein, the green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene was fused to either the 5′ or the 3′ end of SNI1. The resulting fusion genes were driven by the constitutive 35S promoter of the cauliflower mosaic virus. The resulting fusion proteins had a MW of 75 kDa, which is above the size exclusion limit (40–60 kDa) for passive diffusion of protein through the nuclear pores (CITATION). When either 35S-GFP-SNI1 or 35S-SNI1-GFP was delivered into onion epidermal cells by particle bombardment, GFP fluorescence was observed predominantly in the nuclei (CITATION). Weak fluorescence was also detected in the cytoplasm. When 35S-GFP was transiently expressed, the smaller GFP protein (26 kDa) was found to be evenly distributed throughout the cells.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis seeds (40,000) homozygous for the npr1-1 mutation and carrying the BGL2-GUS reporter gene were mutagenized using 0.3% EMS as previously described (CITATION). Two-week-old M2 seedlings grown on Murashige-Skoog (MS) medium (CITATION) containing 0.1 mM INA (MS-INA) were tested for GUS activity using 4-methylumbelliferyl β-D-glucuronide (MUG) as substrate (CITATION). Those seedlings that showed positive GUS activity were transferred to soil to set seeds. The same screen was then performed on the M3 progeny. The presence of npr1-1 in the suppressed isolates was confirmed by an NlaIII restriction digestion polymorphism generated by this mutation. PCR primers (F4: 5′GAAGCTATTGGATAGATG3′ and R5: 5′GTTGAGCAAGTGCAACT3′) were used to amplify a 770 bp genomic fragment containing the npr1-1 locus. The sni1 npr1-1 double mutant was crossed with SNI1 npr1-1, and 112 F2 progeny grown on MS-INA (for 2 weeks) were examined for GUS activity using 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl glucuronide as substrate (CITATION). The obtained segregation ratio for GUS staining was used to determine the Mendelian characters of sni1. In the F2 population, morphological phenotypes were found cosegregating with the sni1 mutation, namely reduced plant size and pointed first pair of true leaves. The sni1 npr1-1 double mutant was also crossed with wild type (also contains the BGL2-GUS reporter gene), and the segregation ratio for GUS staining in the F2 progeny showed that sni1 is not linked to npr1-1. From the same F2 population, sni1 NPR1 was identified using the reduced-plant-size and the pointed-first-true-leaf phenotypes of sni1 to detect sni1 homozygotes and the PCR–NlaIII digestion method to detect NPR1 homozygotes. All the genetic data were analyzed with chi-square tests for goodness of fit (CITATION). Plant genomic DNA was extracted for characterization using a previously described protocol (CITATION). Total RNA preparation used for RNA blot analysis was made according to CITATION. Poly A+ RNA was prepared using Dynabeads (Dynal Inc., Rochester, NY). Leaf tissues were harvested from 4-week-old, soil-grown plants, ground in liquid N2, and weighed. SA extraction was performed using a modified protocol derived from CITATION. Three milliliters of methanol (90%) was added to the ground tissues, and the resulting mixture was vortexed and sonicated for 20 min. After centrifugation at 7500 g for 10 min, the supernatant was collected and the pellet was reextracted with 2 ml of methanol (100%) and recentrifuged at 7500 g for another 10 min. The supernatants from both extractions were combined and air dried in a water bath (60°C). The dried samples were resuspended in 2.5 ml 5% trichloroacetic acid (TCA), vortexed, sonicated for 5 min, and centrifuged at 7500 g for 10 min. The supernatants were collected and extracted in 100/99/1 (vol) ethylacetate/cyclopentane/isopropanol by vigorous vortexing for 10 min. The top organic phase was removed and air dried in a water bath (60°C). The dried extract was resuspended in 250 μl of mobile phase (0.2 M KAc, 0.5 mM EDTA [pH 5]), vortexed, sonicated for 5 min, and spun through a 0.22 μm nylon filter (Costar, Greenwich, CT). To measure the amount of extracted SA, the samples were separated through a 100 × 4.6 sperisorb DDS2 column (Keystone Scientific Inc., Bellesonte, PA) with a particle size of 3 μm and a pore size of 80 Å at a mobile-phase flow rate of 1 ml/min. Fluorescent detection was performed on an HPLC spectrofluorescence detector equipped with a Xenon-mercury arc lamp at an excitation/emission wavelength of 295/405 nm. This procedure had a 25% recovery rate as determined by extracting known amounts of SA. Infection of wild-type and mutant Arabidopsis with Psm ES4326 and P. parasitica Noco2 was carried out as previously described (CITATION). For the Psm ES4326 infection, four samples (eight leaves/sample) were taken for each genotype, treatment, and time point to determine the in planta growth of the bacteria, and the 95% confidence limits of the log-transformed data were calculated (CITATION). For the P. parasitica Noco2-infected plants, a disease rating was determined for each plant according to CITATION. For each genotype and treatment, 30 plants were examined and an average disease rating calculated. The sni1 npr1 double mutant that is in the Columbia (Col) ecotype was crossed into wild type in the Landsberg ecotype (La-er; also carries the BGL2-GUS reporter gene). The F2 progeny homozygous for sni1 were identified in 2-week-old plate-grown seedlings using the morphological phenotypes associated with sni1. The sni1 homozygosity of those progeny critical for determining the map position of sni1 was later confirmed in the F3 generation using the sni1-specific BGL2-GUS reporter gene expression pattern. Various CAPS markers were used to survey the collected sni1 progeny to determine the chromosomal position of the sni1 locus. Among the CAPS markers used (http://genome-www.stanford.edu/arabidopsis/aboutcaps.html), g4539 and g3883-1.4 of chromosome IV were found to flank sni1. Subsequently, a marker (ch42) mapped between g4539 and g3883-1.4 was used. Among the 718 sni1 homozygous F2 plants examined using marker ch42, no recombinants were discovered, indicating that ch42 is closely linked to sni1. Sequence information (http://www.mips.biochem.mpg.de/proj/thal/) was then used to generate CAPS markers XL3 and XL7 on either side of ch42. XL3 was amplified using primers 5′CTGGCATCCGTGAAAC3′ and 5′GCAGGACTTGATGTATCC3′, and the polymorphism between Col and La-er was detected by NdeI restriction digestion. XL7 was amplified using primers 5′CCATCCAAAGGCGATAAC3′ and 5′CCAAACTACTACCGGATG3′ and the polymorphism revealed by DdeI digestion. The interval containing sni1 was further narrowed down to a 43.3 kb region between XL7 and XL3, with which one recombinant on the centromeric side and another on the telomeric side of sni1 were identified. This 43.3 kb region is contained in BAC F28J12. F28J12 was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center at the Ohio State University, and the BAC DNA was prepared according to the protocol provided with the clone. To subclone the BAC, 2 μg of the DNA was partially digested with the TaqI restriction endonuclease for 5 min at 60°C and ligated into the ClaI site of binary vector pCLD04541, which carries NPTII conferring kanamycin resistance, or pSLJ75516, which encodes the herbicide basta resistance. The ligated products were then packaged using Gigapack XL (Stratagene) and used to infect E. coli (DH5α). The resulting two libraries were probed with PCR fragments generated using the following primers: XL4 (F: 5′GTGATGGTGAGGGCTTC3′; R: 5′CGTCGGGATCTACAGG3′); XL7; ch42; XL11 (F: 5′GATGGCAATTGCTGGAG3′; R: 5′CTAATGGGATGCGACTC3′); and XL1 (F: 5′GATGAGATGTGCTGAG3′; R: 5′CATCGATTTCGCCGTTC3′). The positive clones were then analyzed by restriction digestion using XhoI and HindIII. Because the region was completely sequenced, a contig was easily constructed from both libraries by analyzing the restriction patterns of the clones. The contig made with pCLD04541 was transformed (CITATION) into a sni1 line that had lost the BGL2-GUS reporter gene and was therefore kanamycin sensitive. The transformants from pCLD04541 clones were selected on MS medium containing 50 μg/ml kanamycin. The contig made with pSLJ75516 was transformed into sni1 npr1-1 and transformants selected by spraying 10-day-old soil-grown plants with 0.04% basta (in 0.01% Silwet L-77; Union Carbide, Danbury, CT). Complementation of sni1 was determined first by the restoration of wild-type morphology and then by the loss of inducible expression of the BGL2-GUS reporter gene or the endogenous PR1 gene. Segregation of these phenotypes in the T2 generation was monitored to distinguish true complementation from contamination by npr1-1. PCR was also performed to confirm the presence of the cosmid clone in the complementing transformants using the vector-specific primers. The 15 kb genomic region in the sni1 mutant corresponding to the insert of the complementing cosmid 4 was PCR amplified and sequenced using an ABI automated sequencer. The sni1 mutation was identified by aligning the obtained sequence with that of the wild type. In this entire 15 kb region, only one mutation (G to A) was found. The PCR primers used for sequencing were then combined to perform RT-PCR (GeneAmp Kit; Perkin Elmer, Norwalk, CT), and the cDNA sequence in the region flanking the sni1 locus was determined. The partial cDNA sequence was then used as a probe to screen a cDNA library made in λ ZAPII containing 1–3 kb inserts (CITATION). From the 106 plaques screened, one cDNA clone was isolated. The cDNA clone was shown to contain an almost full-length SNI1 coding sequence, missing only 11 nucleotides of the 5′ end that were determined by RT-PCR and sequencing. A full-length cDNA clone was generated by PCR, put under the control of the constitutive 35S promoter of cauliflower mosaic virus, transformed (CITATION) into sni1, and shown to complement the sni1 mutation. By comparing the genomic and cDNA sequences, introns were identified in the SNI1 gene. The G-to-A mutation in sni1 was found to be in a 3′ intron acceptor site, and the effect of this mutation on splicing was detected by RT-PCR of the mutant mRNA and sequence analysis. Sequence data were analyzed with different programs available through the Internet (http://www.expasy.ch/). The GFP gene carried by the plasmid pRT2ΔN-mGFP (CITATION) was fused to either the 5′ or the 3′ end of the SNI1 gene by inserting the SNI1 coding sequence into the BglII and NcoI sites of the plasmid, respectively. The resulting plasmids were purified using a Qiagen Midiprep Kit (Valencia, CA), and 20 μg of DNA was bombarded into onion epidermal cells according to a protocol by CITATION. GFP expression was observed using a fluorescence microscope. * To whom correspondence should be addressed (e-mail: xdong@duke.edu). † Present address: Department of Genetics, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina 27695.
