!~ABS~! Because plants are sessile, they have developed intricate strategies to adapt to changing environmental variables, including light. Their growth and development, from germination to flowering, is critically influenced by light, particularly at red (660 nm) and far-red (730 nm) wavelengths (CITATION) . Higher plants perceive red and far-red light by means of specific light sensors called phytochromes(A–E) (CITATION) . However, very little is known about how light signals are transduced to elicit responses in plants. Here we report that nucleoside diphosphate kinase 2 (NDPK2) is an upstream component in the phytochrome signalling pathway in the plant Arabidopsis thaliana. In animal and human cells, NDPK acts as a tumour suppressor (CITATION) . We show that recombinant NDPK2 in Arabidopsis preferentially binds to the red-light-activated form of phytochrome in vitro and that this interaction increases the activity of recombinant NDPK2. Furthermore, a mutant lacking NDPK2 showed a partial defect in responses to both red and far-red light, including cotyledon opening and greening. These results indicate that NDPK2 is a positive signalling component of the phytochrome-mediated light-signal-transduction pathway in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! Biochemical approaches have identified the heterotrimeric guanine-nucleotide-binding protein Ca2+/CaM and cyclic GMP as components of phytochrome-mediated light-signal-transduction pathways (CITATION) . Indeed, the phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of specific proteins, including phytochrome, may be involved (CITATION) . Genetic approaches have identified ten pleiotropic mutants (cop/fus/det) that display constitutively photomorphogenic phenotypes and several other photomorphogenic mutants (CITATION) ; some mutants specific to a certain phytochrome signal-transduction pathway have also been identified (CITATION) . However, the recently identified PIF3 and PKS1 are the only signalling components that interact directly with phytochrome to have been thoroughly investigated (CITATION) . We used a yeast two-hybrid screening method to identify proteins associated with phytochrome A. As the bait, we used the carboxy-terminal domain of Arabidopsis phytochrome A (position 568–1193). From the screening, we identified 52 yeast colonies that expressed both reporter genes (his3+/lacZ+) in a phytochrome-A-dependent manner, three of which encoded phytochrome A (two clones, position 588–1193; one clone, position 943–1193) (data not shown). Identification of the expected phytochrome A clones from the screening indicated that the C-terminal domain of phytochrome A has the correct folding structure in yeast, so it can be used to identify other phytochrome-associated proteins. Sequence analysis indicated that 26 phytochrome-A-associated proteins are NDPK2. NDPK2 interacted specifically with phytochrome A, but not with DNA-binding domain of GAL4 alone or those fused to other proteins such as laminin C and p53 (Fig. 1a). [[FIGURE]] We established whether two spectral forms of phytochrome interact differently with NDPK2 by using purified recombinant Arabidopsis NDPK2 and oat phytochrome (Fig. 1b). Recombinant NDPK2 interacted preferentially with the far-red phytochrome (Pfr) form of purified oat phytochrome, as assayed by crosslinking using bisbromobimane. Quantitatively, Pfr bound 78% better than the red phytochrome (Pr) form, according to the band intensity. Because NDPKs are encoded by a small gene family, we tested whether the interaction is specific to NDPK2. Unlike NDPK2 (GenBank accession no. AF017640), NDPK1 (accession no. AF017641) and NDPK3 (accession no. AF044265) did not interact with the C-terminal domain of phytochrome A (Fig. 1c). Furthermore, two identified missense mutations in phytochrome A (G765D and G788E) disrupted the ability of phytochrome A to bind to NDPK2 (Fig. 1d). Taken together, the results suggest that NDPK2 does bind to phytochrome A. If two proteins interact, they are expected to share the same subcellular space. To investigate the subcellular localization of NDPK2, we generated transgenic tobaccos that expressed fusion proteins of NDPK2 with green fluorescent protein (GFP). We determined the localization of these NDPK2–GFP fusion proteins in transgenic tobacco plants by using fluorescence microscopy. NDPK2–GFP is localized mainly in the nucleus and cytoplasm (Fig. 2). In the cytoplasm, NDPK2–GFP is concentrated in the regions surrounding the chloroplasts. A similar localization has been reported for NDPKIa, which has the same 78 amino acids as NDPK2 at its amino-terminal (two genes are 98.7% identical for the whole region) (CITATION) . NDPK2 and phytochromes therefore do share the same subcellular space. [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether phytochrome modulates the activity of NDPK2, the γ-phosphate-exchanging activity of NDPK2 was examined spectrophotometrically by monitoring the enzyme-coupled decrease in NADH in the presence of various concentrations of the Pfr or Pr form of oat phytochrome. A significant increase in NDPK2 activity was observed in the presence of the Pfr form (Fig. 3a). The Pfr form of oat phytochrome (150 nM) increased the activity of NDPK2 by about 70% over activity without phytochrome, whereas the Pr form had no effect on NDPK2 activity. However, neither Pfr nor Pr modulated the activity of recombinant NDPK1 under the same conditions. These results are consistent with the yeast two-hybrid data that the C-terminal domain of Arabidopsis phytochrome A interacts specifically with NDPK2 but not with NDPK1. To investigate the biochemical mechanism for the increased activity of NDPK2 by the Pfr form, we determined the Km value of NDPK2 by using deoxycytidine diphosphate (dCDP). The Km value of NDPK2 decreased from 0.60 mM to 0.43 mM in the presence of the Pfr form of phytochrome (Fig. 3b), indicating that phytochrome increases NDPK2 activity by decreasing the Km value in a red-light-dependent manner. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the role of NDPK2 in planta, we isolated a T-DNA insertion mutant of NDPK2 that had T-DNA inserted in an intron region between amino acids 128 and 129 of NDPK2 (data not shown). The homozygous ndpk2 mutant grew well, indicating that the NDPK2 gene may not be required under laboratory conditions. Because NDPK2 is a phytochrome-A-associated protein, we investigated the development of phytochrome-A-mediated seedlings under continuous far-red light. The ndpk2 mutant had a slightly shorter hypocotyl under all conditions (Fig. 4a). When we compared the rate of decrease in hypocotyl length by increasing the fluence rate, the decrease reduced only marginally in the mutant (Fig. 4b), indicating that NDPK2 is not essential for phytochrome-A-mediated hypocotyl elongation or that its function is replaceable by others. However, the mutant showed defects in cotyledon opening and hook straightening under continuous far-red light, indicating that the ndpk2 mutant partly phenocopies phyA mutants in these aspects. Wild-type seedlings developed an open hook and cotyledons at 7 µW cm-2, whereas ndpk2 mutant seedlings had a closed hook and cotyledons at this fluence rate (Fig. 4c). At 14.7 µW cm-2, the hook was open but the cotyledons were not completely open, indicating that the mutant may not completely abolish the phytochrome-A-mediated far-red response. These results indicate that NDPK2 is involved in the phytochrome-A-mediated far-red high-irradiance response. [[FIGURE]] The C-terminal domains of phytochromes A and B are functionally interchangeable (CITATION) , raising the possibility that NDPK2 might also be involved in other phytochrome-mediated light-signal transductions. The ndpk2 mutant was marginally less sensitive for red light in terms of hypocotyl elongation, but the mutant showed a strong defect in red-light-induced cotyledon opening and greening (Fig. 5), indicating that NDPK2 is involved in the phytochrome-B-mediated red-light high-irradiance response. Unlike PIF3, however, a mutation in NDPK2 primarily affected cotyledon opening and greening. Another phytochrome-binding protein, PKS1, has been proposed to inhibit phytochrome B signalling. These findings suggest that phytochromes interact with various effector molecules and regulate their functions to modulate a range of responses to light. [[FIGURE]] NDPK is required for many eukaryotic developmental processes. In Drosophila, for example, mutation of the NDPK homologues called awd (for abnormal wing disc) results in abnormal cell morphology, aberrant differentiation and cell necrosis (CITATION) . In mammals, NDPK, which is also referred as Nm23, acts as a tumour suppressor (CITATION) . Several enzyme activities, including as a histidineaspartic acid kinase, a serine/threonine kinase, a transcription factor and a G-protein activator, have been proposed to explain its role in development (CITATION) . However, little is known about the role of this multifunctional NDPK in plant development. NDPKIa, which is very similar to NDPK2, has recently been shown to complement the gcn4 mutant of yeast and binds to the HIS4 promoter to activate transcription (CITATION) . Red-light-dependent phosphorylation of NDPK in peas also has been reported (CITATION) . Our data show that the Pfr form of purified oat phytochrome increases the activity of recombinant NDPK2 and that NDPK2 is required for phytochrome signalling in planta. The molecular mechanism of modulation by NDPK2 of phytochrome-mediated cotyledon opening remains to be further investigated.
!~MM~! An Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA library for the yeast two-hybrid system was constructed from messenger RNAs purified from 1-week-old, light-grown seedlings (Col-0 ecotype). The library was constructed in pGAD424 vector (Clontech). As a bait, position 568–1193 of Arabidopsis phytochrome A (a gift from P. H. Quail) was subcloned into pGBT9 vector (Clontech). Transformants (1.5 × 106) were screened and plasmids isolated from the positive clones were re-introduced into yeast together with the bait or control vectors (pGBT9, pLAM 5′ and pVA3; Clontech) to check the interaction and its specificity. To investigate whether some of mutations identified in phytochrome A disrupt the interaction, position 656–1193 of two phytochrome mutants (G765D and G788E) was subcloned into pGBT9 vector and the interaction was measured by o-nitrophenyl-β-D-galactopyranoside (ONPG) assay, for which three independent colonies were picked and measured for enzyme activities. Oat phytochrome was purified from a etiolated oat seedlings as described (CITATION) . Arabidopsis NDPK1 (amino acids 1–115) and NDPK2 (79–226) were subcloned into pET28a vector (Novagen) and the recombinant proteins purified from Escherichia coli over Ni+-agarose column according to manufacture's guidelines (Qiagen). NDPK2 with 78 amino acids deleted retains the ability to bind to phytochrome both in yeast and in vitro (data not shown). The γ-phosphate-exchanging activity of NDPK was measured as described (CITATION) with minor modifications. The assay buffer contained 100 mM Tris-Cl, pH 7.5, 100 mM KCl, 25 mM MgCl2, 3 mM phosphoenolpyruvate, 2 mM ATP, 0.3 mM NADH, 2.5 units pyruvate kinase, 2.5 units lactate dehydrogenase and 1 mM dCDP. The reaction was started by adding purified NDPK to a final concentration of 3 nM in 600 µl at 20 °C. NDPK activity was measured by monitoring the lactate dehydrogenase-pyruvate kinase-coupled NADH decrease (change in absorption at 340 nm) in the reaction mixture. The effect of phytochrome on NDPK activity was examined by incubating purified oat phytochromes, illuminated by red (660 nm, Pfr form) or far-red (730 nm, Pr form) light, with NDPK in the reaction mixture. The Km value of NDPK2 with dCDP was measured in a similar manner except that the final concentration of phytochromes was fixed at 60 nM. Six-histidine-tagged NDPK2 (500 ng) was crosslinked with the Pr or Pfr form of oat phytochrome (1 µg) by adding the thiol-reactive crosslinking reagent bisbromobimane (bBBr) to a final concentration of 1 mM in 20 µl reaction buffer (100 mM HEPES, pH 8.0, 50 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl2) (CITATION) . After 1 min of crosslinking, the reaction was stopped by adding glutathione to a final concentration 100 mM. The crosslinked samples were separated on SDS–PAGE and detected using a histidine-tag antibody. A NDPK2 gene was fused to GFP and subcloned into pBI121 plant binary vector (Clontech). Transgenic tobacco plants were then generated by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and the localization of GFP-fused NDPK2 was observed by a fluorescence microscope (Olympus). A ndpk2 mutant was isolated from Feldmann T-DNA insertion lines (CITATION) and an insertion site identified by sequencing. The homozygous line of the ndpk2 mutant was used for the characterization. To investigate the far-red high-irradiance response, both wild-type (WS-2) and ndpk2 mutants were grown on MS agar plates without sucrose under continuous far-red light (8 µW cm-2) for 5 days.
