!~ABS~! The proteins involved in mitochondrial mRNA processing and degradation in higher plants have yet to be identified. As a first step towards this aim, we report here the characterisation of a nuclear-encoded DExH box RNA helicase (AtSUV3) localised in Arabidopsis thaliana mitochondria. The AtSUV3 mRNA is assembled from the 16 exons of a weakly expressed unique gene and the predicted protein has a calculated molecular weight of 63.6 kDa. Subcellular fractionation of transgenic plants expressing AtSUV3/GUS fusion proteins localises this protein in mitochondria. The N-terminal domain of AtSUV3 containing the motifs characteristic of DExH box RNA helicases exhibits a low endogenous ATPase activity in vitro which can be stimulated by the presence of mitochondrial RNA, confirming that AtSUV3 is an RNA helicase.
!~RES~! One of the genes predicted from the genomic sequence of a large part of chromosome IV of A. thaliana CITATION has significant similarity with the yeast suv3 gene, which encodes a mitochondrial RNA helicase CITATION. thisis potential plant protein shares 39% and 45% of the amino acids with the respective yeast and human homologues. To substantiate this overt sequence similarity we have initiated investigation of the function and subcellular localisation of the protein product of this gene in plants. Since no EST sequences corresponding to the predicted Atsuv3 gene were available, the predicted coding region was amplified by PCR from first strand cDNA of A. thaliana total RNA. The product of 1290 nucleotides generally confirms the genomic predictions, but corrects the predicted ORF in two positions at intron/exon borders. The 3′ border of the first intron in the coding region is about 120 nucleotides further downstream, and the fourth intron begins about 50 nucleotides further downstream than predicted from the genomic sequence. The previous prediction of the latter intron donor sites was probably erroneous because of the presence of a GC 5′ border instead of the more common GT bases (EMBL accession number AJ132843). Comparison with suv3 sequences from other organisms indicated that a large part of the C-terminus was missing in the predicted A. thaliana protein. A 3′-RACE analysis determined the precise structure of this region and identified seven additional exons in three independent 3′-RACE clones, which eliminate the predicted stop codon and extend the orf to 1713 nucleotides in 16 exons (CITATION). The first in-frame ATG is immediately preceded by a translational stop codon and the sequence context matches the nucleotide patterns at other translation starts in plants CITATION. The correspondence between the cDNA sequences and the identified genomic locus is confirmed by stringent Southern blot analysis, which identifies only a single genomic location in the total cellular DNA of A. thaliana (CITATION). The sizes of the respective restriction fragments identified in this Southern blot of digested nuclear DNA match the predictions of the genomic sequence of this region (accession number Z97337) in all instances (CITATION). The probe used did not detect a second suv3-like sequence (accession number AB010077) which is very divergent at the nucleotide level and is most likely a pseudogene as detailed below. Comparison of the amino acid sequence of AtSUV3 with other SUV3 sequences from yeast, human and nematode shows that the predicted plant protein is between 76 and 215 amino acids shorter. Several stretches of amino acids are absent in both N- and C-terminal regions, while the central portion containing all of the domains typical of DExH RNA helicases is well conserved between the A. thaliana polypeptide and the respective proteins in various organisms, suggesting that the A. thaliana sequence encodes a functional polypeptide homologue (CITATION). Two conserved features include the signature of an ATP/GTP binding site motif GPTNSGKT (amino acids 96–103 in CITATION) characteristic of proteins with ATPase activity and a GRAGR RNA-binding motif (amino acids 350–354 in CITATION). The entire protein is predicted to contain 571 amino acids starting from the first in-frame ATG with an calculated molecular weight of 63.6 kDa. The Atsuv3 mRNA was expected to be weakly expressed considering that no homologous sequences have been found in any of the various cDNA libraries established for A. thaliana, maize or rice and only a single clone in poplar (accession number AI166413). Indeed, when probing total cellular RNA from A. thaliana with the Atsuv3 coding region no specific transcript signal is detected (CITATION). Only upon enrichment of poly(A)+ RNA and long exposure times can a single mRNA species of 2.3–2.5 kb in length be identified. Primer extension experiments originating 40 nucleotides 3′ to the initiation codon identify a major 5′ terminus of the transcript about 540 nucleotides 5′ to the initiation codon (CITATION), which suggests a size of about 2.5 kb for the mRNA in good agreement with the mRNA detected by Northern blot analysis. The origin of a minor primer extension signal about 150 nucleotides 5′ to the ATG is as yet unclear. The yeast SUV3 protein has been identified as a mitochondrial protein CITATION. The signal prediction program PSORT locates the plant protein deduced from the A. thaliana cDNA with an 85% probability to the mitochondrial matrix versus a 60% probability for a location in the nucleus (data not shown). The submitochondrial sorting to inner mitochondrial membrane and intermembrane space is predicted with 54 and 50% probabilities, respectively. The N-terminal region of the 63.6 kDa precursor protein is predicted to be cleaved after 22 amino acids resulting in a mature polypeptide of 61.2 kDa. The prediction of an N-terminal import signal is, although clearly positive, beyond the significant probability no reliable proof for the intracellular localisation. To investigate the intracellular localisation of the AtSUV3 protein and the specificity of the predicted N-terminal import signal experimentally, transgenic A. thaliana and potato plants expressing a fusion protein corresponding to the first N-terminal 387 amino acids of AtSUV3 fused to the GUS reporter protein were generated. Subcellular fractions from these transgenic plants were separated on sucrose gradients (CITATION). Distribution of the GUS activity was compared with the distribution of the mitochondrial marker enzyme pyruvate dehydrogenase. These analyses show that GUS activity and mitochondria cofractionate in all instances in A. thaliana as well as in potato, confirming the mitochondrial location of the AtSUV3 protein (CITATION). No GUS activity was detected in purified nuclei and chloroplasts by histochemical staining or fluorogenic assay indicating that AtSUV3-GUS is not imported into these organelles (results not shown). Conservation of the major sequence elements of RNA helicases, including an ATP-binding domain, in the AtSUV3 protein suggests a function homologous to the SUV3 protein of yeast, which acts as an ATP-dependent helicase CITATION. To investigate the enzymatic properties of the plant protein, a portion of AtSUV3 (amino acids 11–387) containing all the domains conserved with the SUV3 homologues in other organisms including the RNA helicase motifs was overexpressed in E. coli as a histidine-tagged protein. This tagged protein was purified and when tested for ATP hydrolysis activity shows a low endogenous ATPase activity (CITATION and data not shown). To exclude the influence of nucleic acids potentially contaminating the recombinant protein, the ATP hydrolysis assay was repeated in the presence of RNase A or DNase I (CITATION). The low endogenous ATPase activity was not affected by the presence of these nucleases. While the addition of yeast tRNA had no significant effect on the reaction, clear stimulation of the ATPase activity was observed in the presence of purified mitochondrial RNA, which confirms that AtSUV3 is indeed an RNA helicase (CITATION).
!~MM~! A suv3 homologous sequence was identified on chromosome IV of A. thaliana CITATION. Specific PCR primers were used to amplify the predicted coding region from first strand cDNA of total RNA from A. thaliana. PCR products were cloned and seven individual clones were sequenced to obtain unambiguous sequence information. Sequencing was performed with a Thermo Sequenase fluorescent label kit (Amersham) and Cy5 AutoRead sequencing kits with Cy5-dATP labelling mix (Pharmacia). Sequencing products were detected and processed by an Alf Express sequencer (Pharmacia). The genomic reading frame predictions were extended and corrected by 3′-RACE experiments, which were performed as previously described CITATION. Computer analyses were performed using Blast algorithms at the NCBI server. Primer extension analyses were performed with 3 μg poly(A)+ RNA following previously described procedures CITATION. Southern and Northern blot analyses were performed by standard procedures using a double-stranded probe representing the 5′ terminal two thirds of the Atsuv3 gene. About two thirds of the Atsuv3 cDNA encoding amino acids 1–387 fused to the uidA (GUS) gene were cloned downstream of the 35S-CaMV promoter in the pBIN+ vector. The resulting plasmid pBIN+ Atsuv3-GUS was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens CV3101. Wild-type Columbia ecotype A. thaliana plants and Solanum tuberosum (var. Desiree) plants were transformed as described by Bent and Clough CITATION and by Sheerman and Bevan CITATION, respectively. Mitochondria were purified from transgenic A. thaliana and potato plants on sucrose density gradients as described by Leaver et al. CITATION. The GUS activity of sucrose gradient fractions was determined by a fluorogenic assay as described by Jefferson CITATION. Aliquots of sucrose gradient fractions were subjected to Western blot analysis by standard techniques using a monoclonal antibody directed against the mitochondrial E1α subunit of pyruvate dehydrogenase CITATION. Immunoblots were developed with the Renaissance chemiluminescence reagent (NEN). A fragment of the Atsuv3 cDNA encoding amino acids 11–387 was cloned into the pQE32 plasmid (Qiagen) to generate the plasmid pQE32-Atsuv3. A culture of XL1-Blue cells transformed with the pQE32-Atsuv3 plasmid was grown, induced and harvested according to the manual. Bacteria were disrupted by sonication in 20 mM Tris-HCl pH 8.0, 100 mM NaCl (buffer TS) and inclusion bodies were pelleted by centrifugation of the bacterial lysate at 12 000×g for 10 min and resuspended in buffer TS containing 8 M urea. Insoluble material was removed by centrifugation at 20 000×g for 15 min and the supernatant was applied to TALONspin columns (Clontech). After two washes with buffer TS containing 10 mM imidazole, the His-tagged AtSUV3 protein was eluted with buffer TS containing 80 mM imidazole and dialysed for 3 h against 20 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.4, 50 mM NaCl, 3 mM MgCl2, 1 mM DTT at 4°C. Most of His-tagged AtSUV3 precipitated during dialysis and was removed by centrifugation at 20 000×g for 10 min. Aliquots of the supernatant containing soluble His-tagged Atsuv3 were frozen at −20°C. ATP hydrolysis activity was measured by incubating 222 GBq/mmol [γ-32P]ATP in the presence of soluble His-tagged AtSUV3 protein (100 ng) at 25°C for 4 h in a final volume of 20 μl of 20 mM Tris-HCl pH7.4, 50 mM NaCl, 3 mM MgCl2, 1 mM DTT. Ten units of DNase I, 10 μg of RNase A, 500 ng of yeast transfer RNA or 500 ng of total mitochondrial RNA were added to the reaction. Aliquots of 1 μl were analysed by thin-layer chromatography on polyethyleneimine cellulose plates (Macherey-Nagel) in 1 M formic acid, 0.5 M LiCl and the reaction products were visualised by autoradiography.
