!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana SOS2 and SOS3 genes are required for intracellular Na+ and K+ homeostasis and plant tolerance to high Na+ and low K+ environments. SOS3 is an EF hand type calcium-binding protein having sequence similarities with animal neuronal calcium sensors and the yeast calcineurin B. SOS2 is a serine/threonine protein kinase in the SNF1/AMPK family. We report here that SOS3 physically interacts with and activates SOS2 protein kinase. Genetically, sos2sos3 double mutant analysis indicates that SOS2 and SOS3 function in the same pathway. Biochemically, SOS2 interacts with SOS3 in the yeast two-hybrid system and in vitro binding assays. The interaction is mediated by the C-terminal regulatory domain of SOS2. SOS3 activates SOS2 protein kinase activity in a Ca2+-dependent manner. Therefore, SOS3 and SOS2 define a novel regulatory pathway important for the control of intracellular ion homeostasis and salt tolerance in plants.
!~RES~! To determine genetically whether SOS2 and SOS3 function in the same pathway, we constructed sos2sos3 double mutants by crossing the deletion alleles sos2-2/sos2-2 and sos3-1/sos3-1 and selecting sos mutants from the F2 generation. Because SOS2 and SOS3 are closely linked on chromosome V, we devised a PCR-based screen for the relatively rare occurrence of double mutants. Two lines of sos2sos3 double mutants were identified from screening 86 sos mutants from the F2 population by the presence of sos2-2- and sos3-1-specific PCR products and the lack of PCR products corresponding to the respective wild-type alleles. The double mutants were confirmed by test crosses with the single mutants. We tested the growth of the single mutants and sos2sos3 double mutants on media containing 0, 50, or 75 mM NaCl. Consistent with previous results (CITATION), both sos2 and sos3 mutants show hypersensitivity to NaCl stress, although sos2 displays greater sensitivity than sos3 (Fig. FIG-REF). The double mutants resembled sos2-2 plants in appearance (e.g., dark curly leaves under 50 mM NaCl) and in shoot and root growth (Fig. FIG-REFA). Root growth measurements show that the double mutant was more severely inhibited than sos3-1 but was indistinguishable from the sos2-2 mutant under all conditions (Fig. FIG-REFB). The lack of additive effects of the mutations is consistent with SOS2 and SOS3 functioning in the same pathway.  [[FIGURE]] The entire SOS3 ORF was fused in frame to the C terminus of the DNA-binding domain of GAL4 to create a bait in the plasmid pAS2 and was transformed into the yeast strain Y190 containing two reporter genes, His3 and LacZ (CITATION). The bait plasmid pAS-SOS3 by itself did not activate transcription of the two reporter genes. For the prey library, we used the λ-ACT cDNA library prepared from mRNA isolated from young Arabidopsis seedlings (CITATION). The prey plasmids were excised and transformed into the yeast strain harboring pAS-SOS3. Of ≈1.6 × 106 transformants plated, 78 clones were confirmed positive for His3 and LacZ expression. Prey plasmids were isolated from the clones, and sequence analysis revealed that 39 encode proteins with significant sequence similarities to serine/threonine protein kinases. Based on sequence alignments, the 39 SOS3-interacting (SIP) kinase clones define a family of seven proteins (i.e., SIP1 to SIP7) that are closely related to each other. At least one pACT-SIP plasmid representing each of the seven SIP kinases was reintroduced into the yeast strain Y190 to test for autoactivation of the reporter genes. They were also introduced into the yeast Y190 containing the control bait pAS-p53, pAS-RB, or the empty bait vector pAS2 to examine the specificity of the interactions. None of them was found to activate the reporter genes when expressed alone or in combination with pAS2 or the control baits. Complete amino acid sequences were obtained for SIP1, SIP2, SIP3, and SIP4 by searching the GenBank database. SIP2 corresponds to a serine/threonine protein kinase-like sequence (CITATION) previously identified through homology cloning. SIP1, SIP3, and SIP4 correspond to genomic sequences (GenBank accession numbers AB019228, AL022198.1, and AC002338.1, respectively) released by the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative. Remarkably, when SOS2 was cloned recently (CITATION), we found that the deduced amino acid sequence of SOS2 is very similar to the SIP kinases. The alignment of the SOS2 amino acid sequence with four of the SIP kinases is shown in Fig. FIG-REF. Like SOS2, the putative kinase catalytic domain of the SIPs resides in the N-terminal portion of the proteins and is most similar to the yeast SNF1 and mammalian AMPK kinases (CITATION, CITATION) (alignments not shown). Similarities between SOS2 and the SIP kinases are found in not only the N-terminal catalytic domain but also in the C-terminal regulatory domain.  [[FIGURE]] Although SOS2 was not among the SIP kinases identified by the yeast two-hybrid screen, its high sequence similarity with the SIP kinases indicates that it may interact with SOS3. To test this hypothesis, SOS2 was cloned in frame in the pACT2 vector and was introduced into the yeast strain Y190 containing the bait pAS-SOS3, or pAS2 vector or pAS-p53 as controls. Indeed, SOS2 interacted with SOS3 in the yeast two-hybrid system, and its interaction appeared stronger than that of the other SIP kinases, as suggested by the faster and stronger color appearance in β-galactosidase assays (Fig. FIG-REF). Expression of pACT-SOS2 alone (not shown) or in combination with pAS2 bait vector or with the control bait pAS-p53 did not activate the reporter gene expression (Fig. FIG-REF). Thus, SOS2 specifically interacts with SOS3 in the yeast two-hybrid system. Because the SOS2 gene is expressed at a very low level, it would not be unexpected that SOS2 message would be underrepresented or even absent in the Arabidopsis λ-ACT cDNA expression library used for yeast two-hybrid screening. Indeed, PCR amplification using SOS2-specific primers on plasmid DNA of this library yielded no product whereas using SIP-clone specific primers resulted in good amplification (not shown).  [[FIGURE]] All SIP kinase clones encoded only truncated proteins, and the positions of N-terminal truncations for SIP1, SIP2, SIP3, and SIP4 clones are shown in Table 1. It appears that protein kinase activity is not required for interaction with SOS3 because many of the interacting clones have their putative catalytic domain truncated (Table 1). To determine whether SOS3 interacts with only the regulatory domain of SOS2, the N-terminal kinase catalytic domain (residues 1–260) and the C -terminal regulatory domain (257–446) were each cloned in frame into the prey vector pACT2, and their interaction with SOS3 was determined by using the yeast two-hybrid assay. Expression of the preys in yeast cells were confirmed by using antibodies against the HA-tag, which is part of the prey fusion proteins (CITATION). Fig. FIG-REF shows that SOS3 interacted with the C-terminal but not the N-terminal domain of SOS2.  Positions of N-terminal truncations of SIP1, SIP2, SIP3, and SIP4 kinase clones To corroborate the interaction between SOS2 and SOS3 observed in the yeast two-hybrid system, we tested whether the two proteins bind to each other in vitro. In a pull-down assay, [3H]leucine-labeled SOS3 protein was first synthesized by in vitro transcription and translation, and then was incubated with GST-SOS2, GST-RB, or GST that were bound to glutathione-Sepharose beads. The beads were pelleted and washed extensively, and the bound proteins were resolved by SDS/PAGE and were detected by fluorography. SOS3 was found to bind to GST-SOS2 but not to the control GST or GST-RB (Fig. FIG-REFA).  [[FIGURE]] In addition, we conducted a gel blot overlay assay in which 32P-labeled SOS3 was used to probe a Western blot containing GST-SOS2 and, as controls, GST, GST-RB, and protein size markers (Fig. FIG-REFB). Again, SOS3 was found to bind to GST-SOS2 but not to GST, GST-RB, or the molecular markers (Fig. FIG-REFB). To determine whether protein kinase activity is required for SOS2 interaction with SOS3, recombinant proteins of the two inactive SOS2 mutants, GST-SOS2(K40N) and GST-SOS2(G197E) (CITATION), were tested in the overlay assay. SOS3 was able to bind to the inactive SOS2 mutants (Fig. FIG-REFB), demonstrating that protein kinase activity is not required for SOS2-SOS3 interaction. The binding between SOS3 and SOS2 in vitro does not seem to require Ca2+ because, when the pull-down assay was conducted in the absence of Ca2+ and in the presence of 5 mM EGTA, identical results were obtained (results not shown). We tested various proteins and peptides as substrates for SOS2 in kinase assays. SOS2 did not phosphorylate histone H1 or casein (results not shown). However, several synthetic peptides based on the recognition sequences of protein kinase C or SNF1/AMPK are strongly phosphorylated by SOS2 (Fig. FIG-REFA). SOS2 can phosphorylate either a serine or threonine residue because both the serine-containing (p1: LRRASLG and p3: ALARAASAAALARRR) and threonine-containing (p2: VRKRTLRRL) peptides are recognized as substrates (Fig. FIG-REFA). Phosphorylation of the peptides by SOS2 depends on the presence of SOS3. Without SOS3, little phosphorylation of the peptides was detected (Fig. FIG-REFA).  [[FIGURE]] The predicted amino acid sequence of SOS3 suggested that it is a calcium-binding protein (CITATION). 45Ca2+-overlay assays confirmed that SOS3 is capable of binding Ca2+ (J.-K.Z., unpublished results). We tested whether SOS3 activation of SOS2 kinase depends on Ca2+. Ca2+-free conditions in the kinase assay were achieved by the presence of a large excess of EGTA (10 mM). Without free Ca2+, phosphorylation of p3 was substantially reduced (Fig. FIG-REFB), suggesting that Ca2+ is required for SOS3 activation of SOS2 kinase.
!~MM~! Conditions for plant growth in soil and in agar media were as described (CITATION). Root growth measurement was carried out daily (CITATION). Data presented are for growth after 1 week on the respective media. For double mutant analysis, sos2-2 and sos3-1 mutants were crossed, and progeny of F1 plants were collected. A root bending assay (CITATION) was used to select salt-hypersensitive mutants from the F2 seedlings. Double mutants were identified from the mutants by PCR genotyping. Primer pairs used to distinguish sos3-1 and its wild-type allele are 5′TCTCATGAATTTGCAGTTGC and 5′AAACTGTTTAATCTGGAGGG, resulting in 112- and 121-bp amplification products for the mutant and wild-type genes, respectively. To discern sos2-2 from its wild-type allele, primer pairs 5′AATTTGGATGATATTCGTGCAGTTTTTG and 5′TTAACATTTAAATGGAATTGACC (for wild type, resulting in a 96-bp product), and 5′CAAATTCAAGGAATCAAGAATTCGC and 5′TTAACATTTAAATGGAATTGACC (for sos2-2, yielding a 90-bp product) were used. The SOS3 coding region was amplified by PCR with primers containing restriction sites and was cloned in frame between the NcoI and SalI sites of pAS2, to form pAS-SOS3 as the bait to screen an Arabidopsis expression library in pACT1. The λACT cDNA expression library (CITATION) was converted to a pACT plasmid library by infecting Escherichia coli BNN132 cells (CITATION). pAS-SOS3 was transformed into yeast Y190, which was then analyzed by Western blotting using α-HA antibody (Babco, Berkeley, CA) for detection of SOS3 fusion protein expression. Transformation and screening were according to Bai and Elledge (CITATION). Approximately 1.6 × 106 transformants were plated and selected on SC agar medium, which lacks leucine, tryptophan, and histine and contains 25 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (triple selection medium). Large colonies were streaked and subjected to a 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl β-d-galactoside filter assay. Seventy-eight clones showing blue color were chosen for further analysis by growing them in SC medium minus leucine, which favors the loss of the bait plasmid, and isolating the pACT-SIP plasmids for sequence determination. To confirm the interaction between putative SIP clones and SOS3, purified pACT-SIP plasmids were retransformed into the yeast Y190 harboring pAS-SOS3 and were subjected to growth on the triple selection medium and β-galactosidase assay. For control interactions with the identified prey proteins, empty vector pAS2, pAS-RB [maize retinoblastoma protein (CITATION), a gift from B. Larkins, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ] and pAS-p53 (CITATION) (a gift from S. J. Elledge, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX) were used as baits. The N-terminal (residues 1–260) and C-terminal (residues 257–446) parts of SOS2 were amplified by PCR with primers containing restriction sites and were cloned into BamHI-EcoRI of pACT2 to test interaction with pAS-SOS3. GST-SOS2, GST-SOS2(K40N), and GST-SOS2(G197E) were produced as described by Liu et al. (CITATION). To produce bacterially expressed GST-SOS3, the coding region of SOS3 cDNA was amplified by PCR with primers harboring restriction sites, cloned in frame into BamHI-EcoRI of pGEX-2TK (Amersham Pharmacia) and transformed into E. coli BL21 DE3 cells (Amersham Pharmacia). E. coli cultures were induced with 0.5 mM IPTG, and recombinant proteins were affinity-purified from bacterial lysates with glutathione-Sepharose beads (Amersham Pharmacia). GST-fusion proteins were incubated in kinase buffer (20 mM Tris⋅HCl, pH 8.0/5 mM MgCl2/1 mM CaCl2/1 mM DTT). The kinase reaction was started by adding [γ-32P] ATP and was transferred to 30°C for 30 min. The reaction was stopped by adding 4× SDS-sample buffer and was analyzed by SDS/PAGE and autoradiography. Oligopeptide phosphorylation was assayed in a final reaction volume of 25 μl in the kinase buffer with 200 μM oligopeptides and 1 μg of GST-SOS2 and with or without 1 μg of GST-SOS3. Peptides p1 (LRRASLG) and p2 (VRKRTLRRL) were from Sigma. Peptide p3 (ALARAASAAALARRR) was custom synthesized by Research Genetics (Huntsville, AL). Incubation was for 30 min at 30°C. Fusion proteins (GST-SOS2 and GST-SOS3) bound to glutathione-Sepharose were pelleted by low speed centrifugation. Fifteen microliters of supernatant were used for detection of peptide phosphorylation according to Davies et al. (CITATION). For Ca2+-free conditions, CaCl2 was omitted, and 10 mM EGTA was included in the kinase buffer. For pull-down assays, radiolabeled SOS3 protein was produced from pET14b-SOS3 (NcoI-BamHI) by using an in vitro transcription and translation assay kit with 3H-leucine as the sole source of leucine (TNT Coupled Reticulocyte Lysate System, Promega), following the manufacturer's instructions. Equal amounts of 3H-leucine-SOS3 were incubated under constant rocking for 1 h at 4°C in 150 μl of binding buffer (20 mM Tris⋅HCl, pH 7.5/150 mM NaCl/1 mM CaCl2/0.1% Nonidet P-40) with 2 μg each of GST-SOS2, GST-RB [GST fusion of the maize retinoblastoma protein (CITATION)], or GST bound to glutathione-Sepharose beads. GST-RB and GST were used as controls in the binding assays. The Sepharose beads were pelleted and washed extensively with the binding buffer and were analyzed by SDS/PAGE and fluorography. For gel blot overlay assays, the SOS3 ORF was cloned into the pGEX-2TK vector to allow direct labeling of recombinant GST-SOS3 with 32P because it contains the recognition sequence for protein kinase A between the GST domain and the multiple cloning sites. The recombinant GST-SOS3 was purified by affinity chromatography on glutathione-Sepharose resin and was labeled by using protein kinase A and γ-32P-ATP following published procedures (CITATION). The GST was then cleaved from GST-SOS3 by using thrombin. GST-SOS2, GST-SOS2(K40N), GST-SOS2(G197E), and control proteins were fractionated by SDS/PAGE and were electroblotted onto nitrocellulose membrane. The blot was incubated with 32P-labeled SOS3 in TBST [20 mM Tris⋅HCl, pH 7.8/0.5 M NaCl/0.15% (vol/vol) Tween 20], was washed with TBST, and was exposed to x-ray film.
