!~ABS~! Background: Chloroplast division in plant cells occurs by binary fission, yielding two daughter plastids of equal size. Previously, we reported that two Arabidopsis homologues of FtsZ, a bacterial protein that forms a cytokinetic ring during cell division, are essential for plastid division in plants, and may be involved in the formation of plastid-dividing rings on both the stromal and cytosolic surfaces of the chloroplast envelope membranes. In bacteria, positioning of the FtsZ ring at the center of the cell is mediated in part by the protein MinD. Here, we identified AtMinD1, an Arabidopsis homologue of MinD, and investigated whether positioning of the plastid-division apparatus at the plastid midpoint might involve a mechanism similar to that in bacteria. Results: Sequence analysis and in vitro chloroplast import experiments indicated that AtMinD1 contains a transit peptide that targets it to the chloroplast. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants with reduced AtMinD1 expression exhibited variability in chloroplast size and number and asymmetrically constricted chloroplasts, strongly suggesting that the plastid-division machinery is misplaced. Overexpression of AtMinD1 inhibited chloroplast division. These phenotypes resemble those of bacterial mutants with altered minD expression. Conclusions: Placement of the plastid-division machinery at the organelle midpoint requires a plastid-targeted form of MinD. The results are consistent with a model whereby assembly of the division apparatus is initiated inside the chloroplast by the plastidic form of FtsZ, and suggest that positioning of the cytosolic components of the apparatus is specified by the position of the plastidic components.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis minD gene was identified using the TBLASTN algorithm CITATION to search the non-redundant GenBank database using the amino-acid sequence of Chlorella vulgaris MinD CITATION as the query sequence. A highly significant match was found to an open reading frame (ORF) in a P1 library clone, MZF18 (accession number AB009056), from chromosome V of Arabidopsis CITATION. The ORF, which was uninterrupted by introns, spanned nucleotides 32,980–33,957 on the minus strand of MZF18 and encoded a polypeptide of 326 amino acids with a calculated molecular weight of 35,690 Da. An alignment of MinD amino-acid sequences from several photosynthetic organisms (CITATION ) revealed regions of high sequence similarity and indicated that the gene has been highly conserved during the evolution of chloroplasts. Arabidopsis MinD shares 65% identity with MinD from C. vulgaris, a slightly lower extent of identity (58–62%) with the MinD proteins encoded in the plastid genomes of the other algal species shown in CITATION, 53% identity with MinD from the photosynthetic prokaryote Synechocystis PCC6803, and greater than 40% amino-acid identity with the other bacterial MinD sequences listed in the legend to CITATION. The Arabidopsis gene was designated AtMinD1. AtMinD1 contains an amino-terminal extension (CITATION) with features common to chloroplast transit peptides. These include alanine as the second residue, a relatively high proportion of hydroxylated amino acids, and few acidic residues CITATION. To determine whether this extension was able to function as a chloroplast-targeting sequence, an in vitro chloroplast import assay was performed CITATION. The AtMinD1 ORF was subcloned into a plasmid vector downstream of a promoter for T3 RNA polymerase. In vitro transcription of the ORF, followed by in vitro translation of the resulting transcript in the presence of [35S]methionine, yielded a full-length, radiolabeled translation product that migrated at 39.7 kDa (CITATION , upper panel, lane 1), somewhat above its calculated mass. When added to isolated pea chloroplasts, the translation product was processed to a smaller form migrating at 35.6 kDa (CITATION, upper panel, lane 3). The processed form of the protein was soluble following import (CITATION, upper panel, compare lanes 2,3 with lanes 4,5), and was fully protected from a post-import treatment with the protease thermolysin (CITATION, upper panel, lane 5). In a control set of reactions, the small subunit of pea ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP) carboxylase/oxygenase, a soluble stromal protein, behaved identically (CITATION, lower panel). These data provide strong evidence that AtMinD1, like FtsZ1, is synthesized as a precursor on cytosolic ribosomes and post-translationally targeted to the chloroplast where it is processed to a mature form. The finding that both FtsZ1 and AtMinD1 are localized in the chloroplast in Arabidopsis suggested that AtMinD1 might function in the placement of a plastid-localized FtsZ ring and, hence, in positioning of the plastid-division machinery. To investigate this possibility, we constructed a T-DNA consisting of the entire AtMinD1 ORF subcloned in the antisense orientation behind the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter in the binary transformation vector pART27 CITATION. The T-DNA, which included a selectable marker conferring plant resistance to kanamycin, was introduced into Arabidopsis plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation using a floral-dip procedure CITATION. T1 seeds were harvested from the inoculated plants, and transformants were selected on the basis of their resistance to the antibiotic. Leaf tissue from kanamycin-resistant (kanr) plants was examined microscopically for effects on chloroplast size and number. Plants from 19 different pots were analyzed, ensuring that the phenotypes observed were the result of a minimum of 19 independent transformation events. On the basis of recent studies of T-DNA insertion patterns in Arabidopsis transformed by a similar procedure CITATION, it is likely that most of the kanr T1 individuals, including those originating from the same pot, represented independent insertion events. The phenotypes of the antisense transformants were initially investigated by examination of mesophyll cells from first leaves of 23 day old T1 plants. In wild-type plants, the leaves at this stage of development are fully expanded, and the cells have accumulated their full complement of approximately 100 chloroplasts CITATION, all of which fall within a narrow range of sizes (CITATION and CITATION ). Among the 164 kanr individuals examined from the 19 antisense transformations, 90 (55%) exhibited phenotypes that differed noticeably from the wild type. Among these, 66 (73%) displayed a striking degree of heterogeneity in the sizes of the chloroplasts within a single mesophyll cell. This heterogeneity was evident both from visual inspection of the mesophyll cells under the microscope (CITATION) and from measurements of the frequency with which chloroplasts of different sizes were observed in the same cell (CITATION). The plastid size heterogeneity was even more pronounced in smaller cells from younger leaves in which chloroplasts are not yet fully expanded as they are in 23 day old leaves. Chloroplast numbers per unit cell area were also quite variable in the antisense plants, in contrast with the wild type in which the number of chloroplasts per cell is tightly correlated with cell size CITATION. Nevertheless, the chloroplasts were consistently fewer in number and larger in size than in wild-type cells (CITATION; compare with CITATION), suggesting a reduced number of plastid division events in most of the AtMinD1 antisense lines. The phenotypes observed in the T1 generation were also observed in T2 and T3 progeny. Although chloroplast numbers in cells from antisense plants were consistently lower and the chloroplast sizes far less uniform than in the wild type, the linear relationship between total chloroplast plan area and total mesophyll cell plan area in the antisense lines was approximately the same as in the wild type (data not shown). This finding indicates that the reduced chloroplast numbers were compensated for by corresponding increases in chloroplast expansion so that total chloroplast volume was conserved. Similar results have been shown for other perturbations in chloroplast number and/or expansion CITATION. A relatively small proportion (18%) of T1 plants with visually detectable phenotypes under the microscope displayed less heterogeneity in chloroplast size within single cells. Instead, the mesophyll tissue in these plants comprised a mixture of cells containing either wild-type numbers and sizes of chloroplasts or only a few large chloroplasts (data not shown). Because the affected cells contained fewer chloroplasts than the number of proplastids present in leaf primordia CITATION, these observations suggest a significant inhibition of both proplastid and chloroplast division in some cells, but not in others. Under the conditions used for our experiments, plants expressing the AtMinD1 antisense transgene grew more rapidly than wild-type plants in the early stages of development (first leaves appeared earlier), but inflorescences appeared a few days later. This difference was evident through the T2 and T3 generations. In other aspects of growth and development, the antisense plants did not differ noticeably from the wild type. Careful measurements of growth parameters may reveal other subtle differences, however. To confirm that the transgenic phenotypes resulted from reduced expression of the endogenous AtMinD1 gene, a northern blot of poly(A)+ RNA isolated from antisense and wild-type plants was probed with a radiolabeled RNA probe specific for AtMinD1. The probe hybridized to two transcripts of about 1.1 and 1.7 kb, the smaller of which was more abundant (CITATION ). The probe remained bound to both transcripts when the blot was washed at very high stringency (data not shown), indicating that the two mRNAs were derived from either the same gene or from two closely related genes. Based on the size of the AtMinD1 ORF (978 bp), we expect that AtMinD1 is represented by at least the smaller transcript. The levels of both transcripts were significantly reduced in the antisense plants (CITATION, lanes 1,2) when compared with the wild type (lanes 3,4), indicating that the heterogeneity in chloroplast size and number in these plants was the result of reduced AtMinD1 expression. In E. coli, minicell formation in mutants lacking MinD is the result of asymmetric cell division. We determined whether the heterogeneity in chloroplast size observed in the AtMinD1 antisense lines could be the result of asymmetric chloroplast division. In leaves of dicotyledonous plants, the division of chloroplasts is rapid and is not synchronized CITATION. Consequently, it can be difficult to observe chloroplasts in the process of division, particularly in the AtMinD1 antisense plants in which chloroplast numbers are reduced. Nevertheless, a high frequency of constricted plastids have been documented in Arabidopsis petals CITATION and are easily viewed because the plastids are less densely packed than in mesophyll cells. Therefore, we examined petal tissue from flowers of the transgenic plants to determine whether asymmetric plastid division events could be observed. Many constricted plastids were seen in which the constriction was noticeably displaced from the center (CITATION). This was in marked contrast with the wild type, in which petal plastids almost always appear to be constricted in the center CITATION. We have also observed asymmetric constriction of chloroplasts in leaf epidermal cells in the transgenic lines (data not shown). These data suggest that the chloroplast size variability in the AtMinD1 antisense plants results at least partially from asymmetric plastid division. To further analyze the role of AtMinD1 in plastid division, we ectopically expressed the AtMinD1 ORF under control of the CaMV 35S promoter in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. The phenotypes of 82 kanr T1 individuals representing at least 13 independent transformation events were investigated microscopically as described above. The predominant phenotype, observed in 52 (73%) of the 71 T1 plants having phenotypes that were clearly distinguishable from the wild type, was a dramatically reduced number of greatly enlarged chloroplasts. Cells in most of these plants appeared to contain five or fewer chloroplasts, and many had only a single large chloroplast (CITATION). This phenotype contrasted with that observed in most of the antisense plants, in which the chloroplasts were generally more numerous, and indicates a more severe inhibition of plastid division. The phenotype was inherited in the T2 and T3 progeny. Northern blot analysis confirmed that the severe disruption in chloroplast division was accompanied by AtMinD1 overexpression (CITATION, lane 5). Because the number of chloroplasts in mesophyll cells from the AtMinD1 overexpression lines was less than the number of proplastids present in the cells of the shoot apical meristem CITATION, these data indicate a disruption of both proplastid and chloroplast division in these plants. The remaining 19 (29%) T1 individuals among the 71 that differed obviously from the wild type had less severe defects in plastid division. Most of these resembled the antisense plants, having variable numbers and sizes of chloroplasts. We have not determined whether this phenotype is indeed the result of AtMinD1 overexpression, though it parallels findings in E. coli that moderate overexpression of minD induces minicell formation CITATION. This phenotype is, however, also consistent with cosuppression CITATION of endogenous AtMinD1 gene expression. The AtMinD1 sense lines grew somewhat more slowly and did not grow as large as wild-type or antisense plants. They also began flowering about 3 days earlier on average. Taken together, the experiments described above provide clear evidence that AtMinD1 plays a critical role in the division of chloroplasts in Arabidopsis. The variability in chloroplast size and number, and the observation of asymmetric constriction of petal plastids in the AtMinD1 antisense lines, support a role for this plastid-targeted form of MinD in positioning of the plastid division apparatus in plant cells.
!~MM~! All experiments were performed with A. thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0). Seeds were sown on Supersoil potting mix and vermiculite in a ratio of 3:1 and incubated at 4°C in the dark for 2 days before being moved to growth chambers and grown at 22°C with 16 h of daylight. The age of the plants was taken from the first day of transfer to growth chambers. The MZF18 clone (accession number AB009056) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Research Center in Columbus, Ohio. The region corresponding to the AtMinD1 ORF was amplified from MZF18 with Deep Vent Polymerase (New England BioLab) using the following primers: forward primer, 5′-CCGAATTCGAAGCAGCAGCACTATCAATGG-3′; reverse primer 5′-CGGAATTCGATCCGTTTGCCATTTAGCC-3′. Both primers incorporated recognition sties for EcoRI. The PCR product was sequenced in its entirety to ensure that no mutations had been introduced, and ligated in both orientations into pBluescript (Stratagene). The plasmid with the 5′ end of the insert nearest the T3 promoter was designated KG405; the plasmid with 5′ end of the insert nearest the T7 promoter was designated KG406. The plasmids were maintained in a minCDE deletion strain of E. coli, RC3F CITATION. For the transgenic constructs, the EcoRI-restricted PCR fragment was ligated into the EcoRI cloning site of pART7 CITATION in either the sense or antisense orientation. The transgenes were excised from the resulting plasmids with NotI and ligated into the NotI cloning site in the binary transformation vector pART27 CITATION, yielding plasmids KG402 containing the AtMinD1 antisense construct and KG404 containing the sense construct. KG405 was linearized with BamHI and transcribed using T3 RNA polymerase. The plasmid containing the prSS control encoding the small subunit of pea RuBP carboxylase CITATION was linearized with PstI and transcribed with SP6 RNA polymerase. The resulting transcripts were translated in a rabbit reticulocyte lysate translation system (Promega) containing [35S]methionine (DuPont/NEN) as previously described CITATION. Intact chloroplasts were purified from 8–12 day old pea seedlings (Pisum sativum var. Little Marvel, Olds Seed Company, Madison, WI) over a Percoll gradient and resuspended in import buffer (330 mM sorbitol, 50 mM Hepes–KOH, pH 8.0) at a concentration of 1 mg chlorophyll per ml CITATION. Import reactions, carried out in import buffer for 30 min at room temperature, contained chloroplasts corresponding to 25 μg chlorophyll, 500,000 dpm translation products and 4 mM ATP in a total volume of 150 μl. Thermolysin treatment of import products was performed as described by Cline et al. CITATION. Following treatment, chloroplasts were reisolated by sedimentation through a 40% (v/v) Percoll cushion and resuspended in lysis buffer (25 mM Hepes–KOH pH 8.0, 4 mM MgCl2). Pellet and soluble fractions were separated by ultracentrifugation at 100,000 × g and analyzed by SDS–PAGE CITATION and fluorography. KG402 and KG404 were transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58 (GV3101) CITATION by a freeze-thaw method. The plasmids were checked for rearrangements following transfer to Agrobacterium by back-transformation to E. coli and restriction analysis. The T-DNA was introduced into Arabidopsis plants using the floral-dip procedure CITATION. Transformants were selected by germination in nutrient medium containing 50 or 100 mg/l kanamycin as described previously CITATION and transplanted to soil 7–10 days after germination for propagation and analysis. Kanr plants that originated from different pots were assumed to be derived from independent T-DNA insertion events for the purposes of phenotype characterization. Leaf tissue was prepared for viewing under the microscope as described previously CITATION. Analyses of cell sizes, chloroplast sizes, and chloroplast numbers in mesophyll cells were performed on first leaves from 23 day old kanr plants as described CITATION. Total RNA was isolated from 23–27 day old plants as described previously CITATION using 1 g leaf tissue from independent transgenic lines (T3) or from the wild type. Only transgenic individuals exhibiting plastid size heterogeneity for the AtMinD1 antisense plants, or severely reduced numbers of chloroplasts for the AtMinD1 sense plants, were used for RNA isolation. Poly(A)+ RNA was isolated with Oligotex resin (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions using total RNA as starting material, and quantified by measuring absorbance at 260 and 280 nm. Poly(A)+ RNA gel blots were prepared as described previously CITATION using nylon membrane (Micron Separations). An RNA probe for hybridization specifically to sense AtMinD1 mRNA was prepared by linearizing KG406 with HindIII, and carrying out an in vitro transcription reaction in the presence of [32P]UTP (800 Ci/mmol; ICN) as described previously CITATION, but using T7 RNA polymerase (New England BioLab). Blots were hybridized overnight and washed in 0.2 × SSC (1 × SSC is 0.15 M NaCl and 0.015 M sodium citrate) at 68°C.
