!~ABS~! Epigenetic modifications change transcription patterns in multicellular organisms to achieve tissue-specific gene expression and inactivate alien DNA such as transposons or transgenes (CITATION) . In plants and animals, DNA methylation is involved in heritability and flexibility of epigenetic states (CITATION) , although its function is far from clear. We have isolated an Arabidopsis gene, MOM, whose product is required for the maintenance of transcriptional gene silencing. Mutation of this gene or depletion of its transcript by expression of antisense RNA reactivates transcription from several previously silent, heavily methylated loci. Despite this, the dense methylation at these reactivated loci is maintained even after nine generations, indicating that transcriptional activity and methylation pattern are inherited independently. The predicted MOM gene product is a nuclear protein of 2,001 amino acids containing a region similar to part of the ATPase region of the SWI2/SNF2 family, members of which are involved in chromatin remodelling (CITATION) . MOM is the first known molecular component that is essential for transcriptional gene silencing and does not affect methylation pattern. Thus, it may act downstream of methylation in epigenetic regulation, or be part of a new pathway that does not require methylation marks.
!~RES~! Cytosine residues in promoters of transcriptionally silent genes are frequently hypermethylated. Methylation patterns can be clonally transmitted by a maintenance system coupled to DNA replication, but they can also be modified by de novo methylation (CITATION) or loss of methylcytosine (CITATION) . In Arabidopsis, deficiencies in methyltransferase (CITATION) or mutations in a SWI2/SNF2-like protein reduce methylation and interfere with the maintenance of transcriptional gene silencing (TGS) (CITATION) . These observations support the hypothesis that methylation changes are a prerequisite for epigenetic shifts of transcriptional activity (CITATION) . Methylation-mediated TGS may involve proteins with methylcytosine-binding domains (MBD), such as MeCP2, and their association with histone deacetylase complexes to produce transcriptionally repressive chromatin (CITATION) . To identify molecular elements of TGS, we used random insertion of Agrobacterium transferred DNA (T-DNA) to mutate a previously characterized Arabidopsis line. This line is homozygous for a transgenic HPT locus that encodes hygromycin resistance but is hypermethylated and transcriptionally silenced (line A; ref. 10 and data not shown). We screened the progeny of 3,985 independent transformants (M2) for hygromycin resistance to identify mutations interfering with the maintenance of TGS and reactivating the silent locus. One M2 family segregated approximately 25% hygromycin-resistant seedlings. RNA blot hybridization showed that the transcriptional activity of the HPT gene was restored (Fig. 1a). To examine the activity of the mutation towards other transcriptionally silenced target loci, we crossed the mutant with a transgenic strain containing a β-glucuronidase (GUS) transgene silenced by TGS (line 6b5; H. Vaucheret, personal communication). Expression was reactivated in 18% of seedlings from the unselected segregating F2 and in 75% of F2 plantlets pre-selected for a mutant genotype by their hygromycin resistance (Fig. 1b). These data indicate the presence of a transacting recessive mutation affecting TGS in general. [[FIGURE]] Southern blot analysis using the methylation-sensitive restriction enzymes HpaII (CG methylation) and MspI (CNG methylation) indicated that the transgenic loci, although active, remained hypermethylated ( Fig. 1c and data not shown). This resembles the silencing mutants si11 and sil2 (ref. 13). The genes affected in si11 and sil2 have not been characterized, but complementation tests revealed that they are not allelic to our new mutation (data not shown). We named the new silencing mutant mom1 for mutation in a “Morpheus' molecule”. Although the HPT gene was continuously expressed, hypermethylation of the locus was maintained at the level of the silent progenitor line for at least nine generations. Moreover, there was no change in the methylation of the 180-base-pair (bp) pericentromeric repeats (Fig. 1d ), indicating unchanged levels of methylation throughout the genome (CITATION) . A more refined analysis of the HPT promoter region by genomic sequencing after treatment with bisulphite also showed no significant changes in the distribution of methylation (Fig. 1e). Although a subtle effect of mom1 on methylation cannot be excluded, these findings contrast with previously characterized mutations (ddm1 for decreased DNA methylation, and alleles of ddm1/som4–8) that counteract TGS by a substantial reduction of DNA methylation levels (CITATION) . A peculiarity of the ddm1/som mutants is the accumulation of developmental abnormalities. Inbreeding of these mutants for three or four generations resulted in weak, highly aberrant plants (Fig. 2a), perhaps reflecting ectopic, unscheduled expression or repression of genes involved in development (CITATION) . Although the ddm1/som mutations are recessive, their outcrosses showed very slow resilencing of the target genes, requiring the presence of the wild-type gene product for several generations to regain full silencing (CITATION) . In contrast, mom1 plants were indistinguishable from the progenitor Line A, even after inbreeding for nine generations (Fig. 2a). Resilencing of loci reactivated by mom1 occurred immediately after introduction of a wild-type MOM allele in F1 hybrids (Fig. 2b). [[FIGURE]] To identify the MOM gene, we subjected the DNA of a plant homozygous for a T-DNA insert that co-segregated with the mutant phenotype to thermal asymmetric interlaced polymerase chain reaction (TAIL-PCR) and used the amplified fragment to screen a genomic library of wild-type Arabidopsis. Multiple screening and sequencing allowed assembly of a chromosomal sequence of 14 kilobases (kb). This sequence is located at the top of chromosome I, close to the phyA locus, and it is partially present on bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) F3G11. Comparison of the wild-type with the mutant locus revealed a deletion of 1,980 bp that had been replaced by the T-DNA insertion (Fig. 3a). On northern blots, we hybridized probes flanking both sides of the deletion with mom1 and wild-type RNA ( Fig. 3a). The probes detected two different transcripts, both of which were affected in the mom1 mutant. The wild-type 2.3-kb transcript was replaced in the mutant by two longer (2.7 and 2.4 kb) and more abundant transcripts. The 6.8-kb transcript was replaced in mom1 by two new transcripts of 6.6 kb and 7.0 kb (Fig. 3a), probably resulting from two alternative polyadenylation sites encoded by the T-DNA. Thus, the T-DNA insertion affected expression of two neighbouring genes. We isolated full-length complementary DNAs for both genes by a combination of cDNA library screening, PCR after reverse transcription of RNA (RT–PCR), and 5′ rapid amplification of cloned ends (RACE). [[FIGURE]] To determine which of the two genes is MOM, we generated transgenic plants expressing RNA antisense to each transcript. The empty vector construct (five lines) and antisense expression of the 2.3-kb cDNA (20 lines) did not interfere with TGS (Fig. 3b and data not shown). However, constructs containing the 3′ part of the 6.8-kb cDNA in an antisense orientation reactivated the silent transgenic locus in 15 out of 20 independent transformants (Fig. 3b). Most important, this alleviation of TGS also occurred without a change in methylation levels (data not shown), perfectly recreating the mom1 mutant phenotype and demonstrating that this is the cDNA for MOM. The MOM gene is present in a single copy in the Arabidopsis genome. It is composed of 16 exons and encodes a protein of 2,001 amino acids containing three types of internal repeats (Fig. 4a). The MOM protein has no overall homology to sequences deposited in databases, but contains two regions with similarities to known proteins. The most extended sequence similarity is to the ATPase region of the SWI2/SNF2 family (CITATION) which is involved in chromatin remodelling (Fig. 4b). Proteins of this family contain sequence motifs similar to those of DNA and RNA helicases belonging to superfamily II (ref. 17). According to their crystal structure, helicases have two distinct domains separated by a deep cleft (CITATION) . Structural analysis of helicase–DNA complexes indicates functional cooperation and partial independence of the two domains (CITATION) . The region present in MOM spans only the second domain, thus representing half of a helicase unit. An attractive possibility is that MOM functions as a heterodimer with a still unknown partner carrying the missing half of the helicase region. Protein sequences containing complementary halves of helicases are known for bacteria (CITATION) . [[FIGURE]] Actin and actin-related proteins present in the nucleus are involved in epigenetic regulation and chromatin remodelling (CITATION) . A stretch of 100 amino acids close to the carboxyl-terminal end of MOM has a similarity to a short region of chicken tensin (Fig. 4c). This particular tensin fragment contains direct repeats and acts as a barbed-end actin-binding domain (CITATION) . In addition, MOM has three predicted nuclear localization signal (NLS) sequences (CITATION) and did in fact localize to the nucleus when overexpressed (Fig. 4d). It also has a putative transmembrane domain (TD) (Fig. 4a) predicted by hydrophobicity analysis and the positive-inside rule (CITATION) . This arrangement (NLS and TD) resembles integral membrane proteins of the inner nuclear membrane, such as the lamin B receptor (CITATION) or the lamin-associated proteins LAP1 and LAP2 (refs 27, 28). Thus, MOM may localize to the inner membrane of the nucleus and interact with actin or actin-related proteins, in addition to contacting DNA through the ‘half helicase’ region. Two alternative functions of MOM in TGS can be envisaged; either MOM is required for recognition of methylation as a silencing signal and thus acts downstream of methylation, or MOM acts independently of methylation. The failure of overall methylation recognition in the absence of MOM should result in a phenotype similar to that of mutants affected in DNA methylation itself, such as ddm/som. However, the normal growth of mom1 clearly differs from ddm/som, indicating that the action of MOM in the silencing process is more restricted and possibly confined to selected chromosomal information. The specificity of methylation signals may be achieved by the diversity of MBD proteins and their ability to participate in various protein complexes affecting chromatin structure (CITATION) . Thus, if MOM is involved in methylation-mediated TGS, it could be a part of such a complex with selected silencing targets. Alternatively, MOM may be involved in the regulation of transcriptional activity by a mechanism independent of a DNA methylation signal. If this is the case, it suggests two parallel and independent levels of epigenetic regulation in organisms exploiting DNA methylation. In either case, MOM is the first well defined element able to modify an epigenetic state in a methylation-independent fashion.
!~MM~! T-DNA transformation was achieved by in planta vacuum infiltration. We pooled selfed seeds from individual transformants in aliquots of approximately 50 seeds each from 20 T2 families and screened for hygromycin resistance on agar-solidified germination medium containing 10 mg l-1 hygromycin B (ref. 10). We prepared and hybridized genomic DNA and RNA as described previously (CITATION) . DNA methylation was analysed either by Southern blotting using methylation-sensitive restriction enzymes or by genomic sequencing after bisulphite treatment. We performed genomic sequencing of the 35S promoter core region in line A and in mom1 with primers designed for a preferential amplification of unmethylated templates. We sequenced 22 individual clones originating from four independent PCR reactions for each genotype. After genetically separating the two T-DNA inserts present in the M2 family, we cloned a DNA sequence flanking the co-segregating T-DNA insert by TAIL-PCR using three specific, nested primers close to the right border of the T-DNA and directed outwards (5′-CATCTACGGCAATGTACCAGC-3′; 5′-GATGGGAATTGGCTGAGTGGC-3′; 5′-CAGTTCCAAACGTAAAACGGC-3′) in combination with two degenerate primers (5′-WGCNAGTNAGWANAA G-3′ or 5′-AWGCANGNCWGANATA-3′). The larger fragment (325 bp) was then cloned and used to probe Southern blots and to screen a genomic library (Stratagene) and a cDNA library. The genomic region around the T-DNA was assembled from different overlapping clones. We cloned the partial cDNAs of the two genes flanking the T-DNA from a cDNA library, RT–PCR and 5′RACE products. The cDNA fragments used for the antisense approach were cloned into pbarbi53, a modified version of p1′barbi (ref. 30). This carries an expression cassette consisting of the 35S promoter of cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV), a multiple cloning site and the 35S terminator of CaMV. We used the resulting recombinant plasmids to transform the transgenic plant line 6b5 of Arabidopsis thaliana containing transcriptionally silenced multiple copies of the GUS gene (obtained from H. Vaucheret). The antisense transformants and empty vector controls were examined for reactivation of the GUS gene by histochemical staining. We performed sequence comparisons using GCG (Genetic Computer Group) and DNASIS (Hitachi). Parts of the genomic sequence and of the cDNA were found in the Arabidopsis database (accession numbers B67281, B62563, B20434, B20425, B21274, B08967, B11993, B20116, B12496, B10852, Z18494, AA597930, AL081635, AL081579, AL091323, AL082308 and B12172). We inserted a DNA fragment encoding a HA-tag generated by annealing two oligonucleotides (5′-GATCTATATCCATATGATGTTCCTGATTATGCTTGA-3′; 5′-GATCTCAAGCATAATCAGGAACATCATATGGATATA-3′) in frame 3′ of the MOM open reading frame. After inserting the resulting cDNA fragment into a plant expression vector (pCAMBIA2200) behind the CaMV 35S promoter, we introduced this construct into tobacco BY-2 cells by particle bombardment. After 24-h incubation, cells were fixed with paraformaldehyde, placed on a polylysine-coated glass slide and treated briefly with a mixture of 0.002% pectolyase, 0.01% macerozyme, 0.03% catylase. For intracellular detection of MOM, we stained cells with anti-HA-epitope antibodies and anti-mouse immunoglobulin antibodies conjugated with Texas Red and counter-stained nuclei with 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI).
