!~ABS~! Many soluble plant vacuolar proteins are sorted away from secreted proteins into small vesicles at the trans-Golgi network by transmembrane cargo receptors. Cleavable vacuolar sorting signals include the NH2-terminal propeptide (NTPP) present in sweet potato sporamin (Spo) and the COOH-terminal propeptide (CTPP) present in barley lectin (BL). These two proteins have been found to be transported by different mechanisms to the vacuole. We examined the ability of the vacuolar cargo receptor AtELP to interact with the sorting signals of heterologous and endogenous plant vacuolar proteins in mediating vacuolar transport in Arabidopsis thaliana. AtELP extracted from microsomes was found to interact with the NTPPs of barley aleurain and Spo, but not with the CTPPs of BL or tobacco chitinase, in a pH-dependent and sequence-specific manner. In addition, EM studies revealed the colocalization of AtELP with NTPP-Spo at the Golgi apparatus, but not with BL-CTPP in roots of transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Further, we found that AtELP interacts in a similar manner with the NTPP of the endogenous vacuolar protein AtALEU (Arabidopsis thaliana Aleu), a protein highly homologous to barley aleurain. We hypothesize that AtELP functions as a vacuolar sorting receptor involved in the targeting of NTPP-, but not CTPP-containing proteins in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! We have reported the biochemical characterization of a sorting receptor-like protein from Arabidopsis, AtELP, that is associated with CCVs and resides on the TGN and on a PVC (CITATION; CITATION). We proposed a potential role for AtELP in protein transport along the vacuolar pathway in Arabidopsis. Here, we investigated the ability of AtELP to interact with peptides representing the targeting determinants of several plant vacuolar proteins (CITATION), in an in vitro binding assay. AtELP, present in a detergent extract prepared from microsomes of Arabidopsis cells, was retained on the peptide affinity columns containing the wild-type (Wt)-NTPP-barley Aleu and Wt-NTPP-Spo vacuolar sorting signals at neutral pH and were subsequently eluted with an acidic buffer (CITATION A). These peptides contain a consensus NPIR motif that is an important component of the NTPP sorting signals of barley Aleu and Spo. In vivo, either the deletion of the NPIR sequence or the substitution of Gly for Ile in the proSpo vacuolar sorting signal results in 90% secretion of Spo to the culture media (CITATION). In probarley Aleu, sequences in addition to the NPIR sequence contribute to the maximum level of vacuolar transport of barley Aleu in vivo (CITATION). Accordingly, AtELP was not retained by the mutant (Mt)-NTPP-barley Aleu or Mt-NTPP-Spo affinity column, where the Ile in the NPIR motif present in the barley Aleu- and Spo-targeting sequences was changed to a Gly (CITATION A). An affinity column representing the BL-CTPP retained no detectable amounts of AtELP from the detergent extract, suggesting that AtELP does not interact with the CTPP-sorting signal of BL. In immunoblot analysis of our binding experiments, using AtELP antibodies, we consistently detected three closely migrating polypeptides that bound to the Wt-NTPP-barley Aleu and Wt-NTPP-Spo affinity columns. These three polypeptides demonstrated equal affinity for the two different NTPPs in the competition assays described below. They could represent different posttranslational modifications of AtELP, or different isoforms of AtELP that are immunologically related proteins having biochemical properties similar to AtELP. Moreover, CITATION showed that these three polypeptides have identical tissue and subcellular distribution. To further investigate the specificity of AtELP's interaction with barley Aleu and Spo NTPPs, we carried out competition studies using six different peptides (CITATION B). In these experiments, the Wt-NTPP-barley Aleu and Wt-NTPP-Spo peptides successfully competed for the binding of AtELP to the corresponding Wt-NTPP-barley Aleu or Wt-NTPP-Spo peptide columns at ∼100 μM concentration. In addition, the Wt-NTPP-barley Aleu peptide competed for binding to the Wt-NTPP-Spo peptide. However, AtELP appeared to have an approximate tenfold higher affinity for the Wt-NTPP-barley Aleu peptide than for the Wt-NTPP-Spo peptide. In the presence of a 10-μM concentration of the Wt-NTPP-barley Aleu peptide, the majority of AtELP retained on the Wt-NTPP-Spo affinity column was eluted from the column. In contrast, a tenfold higher concentration (100 μM) of the Wt-NTPP-Spo peptide was required to elute a similar amount of AtELP retained on the Wt-NTPP-barley Aleu affinity column. This difference in the affinity of AtELP for the Wt-NTPP-barley Aleu may reflect the involvement of additional sorting determinants in the NTPP (see Discussion). The Mt-NTPP-barley Aleu or the Mt-NTPP-Spo peptides did not compete for binding. As opposed to the Spo and barley Aleu NTPPs, peptides corresponding to the vacuolar targeting sequences of the BL-CTPP or TobChit-CTPP did not compete for binding, at concentrations up to 1,000 μM (CITATION B). Our results indicate that AtELP interacts in vitro, with the two NTPP-, but not with the CTPP-containing sorting signals in a pH-dependent manner. In addition, its interactions with these signals are dependent on the NPIR motif present in the peptides, which is necessary in vivo for their proper targeting to the plant vacuole. We have demonstrated that the vacuolar reporter proteins Spo and BL are transported to the vacuole by distinct pathways based on sensitivity to wortmannin (CITATION). In transgenic tobacco cells, vacuolar transport of BL-CTPP is inhibited by wortmannin, but the transport of NTPP-Spo is not. In this study, we have therefore used Spo and BL as reporters for the NTPP- and CTPP-mediated vacuolar sorting pathways in Arabidopsis, respectively. To use NTPP-Spo and BL-CTPP as vacuolar reporters in Arabidopsis, we obtained separate lines of transgenic plants expressing either Spo or BL as described in Materials and Methods. Expression of the reporter proteins was first analyzed by Western blot using α-Spo or α-BL antisera (CITATION). Both antisera detected polypeptides with an apparent molecular mass of 18 and 27 kD, corresponding to mature BL and Spo, respectively, as previously reported in tobacco (CITATION). To determine whether both Spo and BL are transported to the vacuole, we examined ultrathin sections of roots by EM and immunocytochemical analysis. Electron-dense protein aggregates stained with either α-BL (CITATION A) or α-Spo (CITATION B) antiserum were seen predominantly in the vacuole. Both antisera showed some staining in the Golgi apparatus and structures near the vacuole, consistent with the pathways followed by the two reporters en route to the vacuole. Weak and nonspecific background labeling was detected in parallel experiments using preimmune serum for either antibody (Supplemental Figure S1, A and B). These results indicate that both Spo and BL are correctly transported to the vacuole in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. We hypothesize that AtELP serves as a vacuolar sorting receptor in Arabidopsis for NTPP-containing proteins. To investigate this possibility in vivo, we performed double-immunogold–labeling studies with transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the heterologous vacuolar cargo reporter proteins, NTPP-Spo or BL-CTPP. In root sections prepared from transgenic Spo or BL plants, AtELP colocalized with the vacuolar cargo protein NTPP-Spo at the trans-Golgi apparatus (CITATION C), whereas the majority of NTPP-Spo antiserum labeled the vacuole (CITATION D; CITATION). However, no colocalization of AtELP and BL-CTPP was observed. Although AtELP and BL-CTPP labeled the same Golgi apparatus, they clearly localized to different parts of the Golgi cisternae, (CITATION and CITATION). Again, the majority of the BL-CTPP antiserum labeled the vacuole (CITATION F; CITATION). Quantitative analysis of the AtELP and Spo colocalization revealed that 74% of the AtELP-labeled gold particles colocalized with 56% of the Spo-labeled gold particles in the Golgi apparatus and structures near the vacuole (CITATION). Similar analysis of the AtELP and BL-CTPP localization studies revealed virtually no colocalization of the two proteins in any of the micrographs investigated (CITATION). These results, together with those obtained from the in vitro binding assays described above, strongly suggest that AtELP serves as a vacuolar sorting receptor for NTPP-Spo in Arabidopsis. The vacuolar sorting of NTPP-barley Aleu and NTPP-Spo have been studied in heterologous systems, primarily using tobacco cells (reviewed in CITATION). As a first step toward understanding the transport of endogenous vacuolar proteins, we sought to identify a vacuolar protein in Arabidopsis that could be used to study targeting mechanisms. The barley cysteine protease Aleu has served as a useful reporter for the study of vacuolar sorting in plants (CITATION; CITATION). We cloned a homologue of barley Aleu from Arabidopsis (AtALEU) using the barley Aleu amino acid sequence (CITATION) as described in Materials and Methods. At the amino acid level, the predicted ORF encoded by the Arabidopsis cDNA was found to be 70% identical to barley Aleu (data not shown). The subcellular location of AtALEU was determined by a combination of organelle fractionation, immunoblot analysis, and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry. CITATION A shows protoplasts prepared from Arabidopsis cell suspension culture. Vacuoles were released from protoplasts (CITATION B) and purified by centrifugation on a discontinuous Ficoll gradient. To test the purity of the vacuole preparation, we determined the enzyme activity of two vacuolar-specific enzymes (α-mannosidase and acid phosphatase) in protoplasts and vacuoles. The ratio of enzyme activity of the marker was found to be 20–40-fold higher than in protoplasts (see CITATION C). To investigate the expression of AtALEU for further use as an endogenous vacuolar reporter in Arabidopsis, we analyzed total protein extracts from roots and cell suspension by immunoblotting, using affinity-purified α-AtALEU antiserum (CITATION D). The antiserum recognized a band of 29 kD, similar to what was previously found to cross-react with the barley Aleu mAbs when tested against Arabidopsis proteins (CITATION). We then examined protoplast and vacuole fractions for the presence of AtALEU by immunoblot analysis, using α-AtALEU antiserum, and with antibodies against marker proteins for the Golgi apparatus (AtELP) and ER (AtSEC12; CITATION E). We found that AtALEU was enriched ∼100-fold in the vacuole fraction over the protoplast fraction per microgram of total protein (data not shown). However, the vacuole fraction contained very little AtELP or AtSEC12. To determine the precise subcellular location of AtALEU, we performed immunogold-labeling studies of ultrathin cryosections of Arabidopsis roots using the affinity-purified α-AtALEU antiserum. The majority of the α-AtALEU–associated labeling was found in large vacuoles (CITATION E), whereas the preimmune serum showed almost no background labeling (data not shown). To determine whether AtALEU is targeted to the same vacuole as NTPP-Spo, we performed double-immunogold-labeling studies with α-AtALEU and α-Spo antiserum. In root sections prepared from transgenic NTPP-Spo plants, AtLEU colocalized with the vacuolar cargo protein NTPP-Spo in the same large vacuoles (CITATION F). Our results indicate that AtALEU is localized in the same vacuole containing NTPP-Spo and therefore can be used as an endogenous reporter to study vacuolar sorting in Arabidopsis. To investigate the role of AtELP in the transport of endogenous NTPP-containing proteins, we tested its ability to interact with the potential NTPP of AtALEU (CITATION A) by affinity chromatography (see CITATION). In these experiments, AtELP was retained on the Wt-NTPP-AtALEU affinity column and was subsequently eluted from the column with the acidic elution buffer (CITATION B). In contrast, no detectable amount of AtELP was retained on the Mt-NTPP-AtALEU column. To determine whether AtELP's interaction with the Wt-NTPP-AtLEU was sequence-specific, we eluted AtELP bound to the Wt-NTPP-AtALEU affinity column at neutral pH by adding 1–1,000 μM of the Wt-NTPP-AtALEU or Mt-NTPP-AtALEU peptides under neutral pH conditions (CITATION C). The Wt-NTPP-AtALEU peptide successfully competed for the binding of AtELP to the corresponding Wt-NTPP-AtALEU peptide column at ∼10 μM concentration. The Mt-NTPP-AtALEU peptide, however, did not compete for binding. In addition, the Wt-NTPP-AtALEU peptide competed for binding to the Wt-NTPP-barley Aleu peptide column, suggesting that these peptides compete for the same binding site (CITATION C). Moreover, the patterns of AtELP elution from the Wt-NTPP-barley Aleu affinity column using the Wt-NTPP-AtALEU and the Wt-NTPP-barley Aleu were different. A majority of AtELP bound to the Wt-NTPP-barley Aleu column could be eluted with 100 μM of the Wt-NTPP-AtALEU peptide, with no further elution observed at 1,000 μM. Although a significant amount of AtELP bound to the same affinity column could be eluted with similar concentration (100 μM) of the Wt-NTPP-barley Aleu peptide, a tenfold higher concentration (1,000 μM) of the Wt-NTPP-barley Aleu peptide was required to elute completely the additional AtELP that remained bound to the column. Thus, AtELP may have a higher affinity for the putative NTPP-sorting signal of the endogenous AtALEU from Arabidopsis than the signal present on barley Aleu. We considered these results in conjunction with our other findings that: AtELP interacts with various NTPPs, but not CTPPs; and it colocalizes with NTPP-Spo, but not with BL-CTPP in transgenic Arabidopsis. We propose that AtELP is a vacuolar sorting receptor involved in the transport of NTPP-containing proteins to the vacuole in Arabidopsis.
!~MM~! A search of the Arabidopsis expressed sequence tag (EST) database using the barley Aleu amino acid sequence (CITATION) and the Blast program (CITATION) identified an EST whose predicted amino acid sequence encoded an open reading frame (ORF) of 358 residues that is 70% identical to barley Aleu (data not shown). This clone (GenBank/EMBL/DDBJ accession number AF233883) containing the ORF of 358 amino acids was termed AtALEU. A polyclonal antibody (α-AtALEU) against AtALEU was produced by immunizing rabbits with a fusion protein encoding six histidines, followed by amino acids 228–358 of the predicted AtALEU ORF. The fusion protein was constructed in pET28a (Novagen), induced in Escherichia coli with isopropyl-1-thio-β-d-galactopyranoside, and purified by Ni2+-Sepharose affinity chromatography. Affinity-purified AtALEU antiserum was prepared according to previously described procedures (CITATION) and used in both immunoblotting and EM. AtELP (CITATION), Spo (CITATION), BL (CITATION), and AtSEC12 (CITATION) rabbit antisera and preimmune sera have been previously described. The full-length BL-CTPP (CITATION) and NTPP-Spo (CITATION) cDNA clones were transformed into Arabidopsis thaliana ecotypes RLD and Columbia plants, respectively, in the pGA643 binary vector under the transcriptional control of the CaMV 35S promoter. The transformation was carried out with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101, PMP90 using vacuum infiltration as described by CITATION. Transformants were selected on kanamycin and the presence of Spo and BL was detected in several independent lines by protein gel blot analysis using α-Spo or α-BL antiserum (CITATION; CITATION). Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia cell suspension cultures were maintained as previously described (CITATION). The affinity column chromatography procedures used were adapted from previously described protocols (CITATION, CITATION). To prepare affinity columns, peptides were commercially synthesized at Research Genetics Inc. to >85% purity. For the NTPP peptides, a cysteine residue was added at the COOH-terminal end of each peptide for subsequent chemical coupling to Sulfolink agarose beads (Pierce Chemical Co.) according to the manufacturer's protocols. The BL-CTPP peptide was coupled to Affigel-15 beads (BioRad) according to the manufacturer's protocols. For the putative NTPP signal of AtALEU, sequences for the peptides used were designed based on the exact number of residues both upstream and downstream of the NPIR motif (amino acids 22–42), consistent with the barley probarley Aleu sorting signal. Vacuoles were purified from Arabidopsis cell suspension culture according to CITATION, with modifications. For biochemical analyses, both protoplasts and purified vacuoles were first briefly centrifuged in a microfuge. The resulting supernatant was discarded and the pelleted protoplasts and vacuoles were lysed with protein extraction buffer: 50 mM NaPO4, pH 7.0, 10 mM EDTA, 1% Triton X-100, 1% Sarkosyl, 1 mM PMSF. The solubilized materials were separated by centrifugation at 13,000 g for 10 min at 4°C. The resulting supernatant containing total protein from protoplasts and vacuoles was analyzed by either immunoblotting, using antisera specific to markers for different subcellular organelles, or for the presence of vacuolar-specific enzyme activities of α-mannosidase and acid phosphatase as below. α-Mannosidase and acid phosphatase activities were measured using 4-methylumbelliferyl–linked substrates with modifications of previously described procedures (CITATION; CITATION). Reactions were carried out at 37°C for 1 h and quenched with 1.5 ml of 0.25 M Na2CO3. Fluorescence was measured on a Hitachi F-2000 Fluorescence Spectrophotometer using an excitation wavelength of 365 nm, detecting the emission at 455 nm. The activities were calculated in mol/liter of methylumbelliferone released per hour per microgram of protein. The ratios of the activity for each enzyme in vacuoles with respect to protoplasts were compared (with protoplasts = 1). The procedures used for immunogold EM of ultrathin plastic sections were as previously described (CITATION), with some minor modifications. In the quantitative analysis, all membrane structures that were found within 50–100 nm of the Golgi apparatus or the vacuole were considered. In total, ∼180–220 gold particles were counted for each of the labeled antibodies over 25–30 independent Golgi apparatuses that were analyzed in three independent experiments. Finally, the percentage of total gold particles that were found over a specific compartment was calculated, together with the percentage of colocalization of AtELP with either Spo or BL at the Golgi apparatus or other structures near the vacuole (CITATION, CITATION, and CITATION). Ultrathin cryosections of Arabidopsis roots were prepared and immunogold-labeling experiments were carried out using previously described procedures (CITATION). Detailed methods for preparation of microsomes, affinity chromatography, vacuole preparation, vacuolar enzyme assays, and EM. Online supplemental materials are available at http://www.jcb.org/cgi/content/full/149/7/1335/DC1. Immunogold-labeling of transgenic Arabidopsis root tissue using preimmune serum for BL and Spo. Immunogold-labeling of AtALEU and Spo in Arabidopsis root tissues.
