!~ABS~! We have so far cloned a cDNA encoding a hybrid-type histidine kinase (ATHK1), three cDNAs encoding phosphorelay intermediates (ATHP1–3), and four cDNAs encoding response regulators (ATRR1–4) from Arabidopsis thaliana. To determine which molecules constitute a His to Asp phosphorelay pathway, we examined protein–protein interactions between them using a pairwise yeast two-hybrid analysis, as an initial step. We detected a specific interaction between ATHK1 and ATHP1. We further examined protein–protein interactions between ATHP1–3 and other histidine kinases. We detected interactions between ETR1 and all ATHPs, and between CKI1 and ATHP1 or ATHP2. Interestingly, ERS1 could not interact with any ATHPs. We also examined protein–protein interactions between ATHP1-3 and ATRR1-4. The results indicated that ATHP2 could interact with ATRR4, and that ATHP3 could interact with ATRR1 or ATRR4. However, ATHP1 could not interact with any ATRRs. On the basis of these results, we discuss the possible phosphorelay networks in an Arabidopsis two-component system.
!~RES~! We have so far cloned a cDNA encoding a hybrid-type histidine kinase, ATHK1 CITATION, three cDNAs encoding phosphorelay intermediates ATHP1–3 CITATION, and four cDNAs encoding response regulators ATRR1–4 CITATION from Arabidopsis. We have also shown that ATHK1 can act as an osmosensor by analyzing both sensing (input) and catalytic (output) activities with yeast osmosensing-defective mutants CITATION. To analyze the protein–protein interactions between them, we examined whether ATHK1 physically interacts with ATHP1–3 by using a pairwise yeast two-hybrid analysis. It had already been shown that the physical interaction between the yeast histidine kinase SLN1 and the phosphorelay intermediate YPD1 requires the receiver domain of SLN1 CITATION. Therefore, the receiver domain of ATHK1 (ATHK1-RD) and the full-length coding regions of ATHP1–3 were expressed as fusion proteins to a LexA DNA-binding domain (pLexA) and to a VP16 activation domain (pVP16), and were tested for both growth on His-lacking medium and β-galactosidase activity in yeast. Reciprocal combinations of the pLexA and pVP16 plasmids were also tested to confirm the positive interactions. ATHK1 interacted with ATHP1 (CITATION), but not with ATHP2 or ATHP3 (data not shown). To examine whether the phosphorylation state of ATHK1 affects the interaction between ATHK1 and ATHP1, we expressed a mutated receiver domain of ATHK1 in which a putative phosphorylation site, Asp-1074, had been substituted with Glu (ATHK1-RD(D1074E)) as a fusion protein to a LexA DNA-binding domain and to a VP16 activation domain. The mutated ATHK1-RD(D1074E) had already failed to complement an sln1-ts mutant CITATION. As shown in CITATION, ATHP1 could interact with ATHK1-RD, but not with ATHK1-RD(D1074E). Each plasmid itself used as a negative control had no binding activity (CITATION). This interaction was confirmed by reciprocal combination of the pLexA and pVP16 plasmids (CITATION). These results suggest that the interaction between ATHK1 and ATHP1 depends on the phosphorylation state of the receiver domain of ATHK1. HPt domain is implicated in His to Asp phosphorelay signaling. Indeed, functional analysis using a yeast ypd1 mutant showed that all ATHPs act as phosphorelay intermediates between SLN1 and SSK1, a response regulator, in yeast CITATION. In addition, the recombinant AHP1 (or ATHP3) protein has been shown to be phosphorylated by an uncertain histidine kinase in Escherichia coli membrane fractions CITATION. Subsequent analysis has revealed that the phosphoryl group on the histidine residue of AHP1 (or ATHP3) and AHP2 (or ATHP1) is transiently transferred to the receiver domain of ARR3 and ARR4 (or ATRR1, IBC7) in vitro CITATION. These results suggest that ATHPs might function as phosphorelay mediators between histidine kinases and response regulators in Arabidopsis. Therefore, we examined whether ATHP1-3 can interact with other histidine kinases. To this end, we expressed the cytoplasmic regions of Arabidopsis ATHK1, ETR1, ERS1, and CKI1 and yeast SLN1 as fusion proteins to a LexA DNA- binding domain and to a VP16 activation domain, and tested them for direct interactions with ATHPs in both combinations of the pLexA and pVP16 plasmids. As shown in CITATION, we detected direct interactions between ETR1 and all ATHPs, and between CKI1 and ATHP1 or ATHP2. We also detected interactions between yeast SLN1 and ATHP1 or ATHP3 (CITATION). However, ERS1 could not interact with any ATHPs tested (CITATION). Each plasmid alone showed no activity, and we observed the specific interactions were only when both the pLexA and pVP16 plasmids were coexpressed (CITATION). Recent study has shown that genes for response regulators, ARR3, ARR4 (or ATRR1, IBC7), ARR5 (or ATRR2, IBC6), ARR6, and ARR7, are induced by exogenous cytokinins, but not by any other plant hormones CITATION. Moreover, reapplication of nitrate to N-starved plants also resulted in the accumulation of the transcripts, as previously observed in maize ZmRR1 CITATION. These results led to a hypothesis that these cytokinin-responsive ARRs function with CKI1 in the nitrate signal transduction mediated by cytokinin in Arabidopsis. To gain further evidence to support this hypothesis, we examined whether ATHP1–3 can interact with ATRR1–4. To this end, we expressed the full-length coding regions of ATRR1-4 as fusion proteins to the LexA DNA-binding domain and to the VP16 activation domain, and tested the direct interactions with ATHP1–3 in both combinations of the pLexA and pVP16 plasmids. We detected interactions between ATHP2 and ATRR4, and between ATHP3 and ATRR1 or ATRR4 (CITATION). No interaction was detected between ATHP1 and any other ATRRs tested (CITATION). These interactions were evident only when both the pLexA and pVP16 plasmids were coexpressed, and neither plasmid itself showed any activity (CITATION).
!~MM~! Yeast strain L40 was used as a host cell for a yeast two-hybrid assay CITATION. Transformation to yeast cells was performed by using a lithium-acetate method CITATION. The transformants were cultured on SD medium (2% glucose, 0.7% yeast nitrogen base without amino acids), supplemented with appropriate amino acids for marker selection. Expression plasmids used in this study were constructed with pBTM116 (a fusion to a LexA DNA binding protein) CITATION and pVP16 (a fusion to a VP16 activation domain) CITATION. To construct expression plasmids ATHK1-RD and ATHK1-RD (D1074E), the receiver domain of ATHK1 (amino acids 961–1207) was amplified by PCR with oligonucleotide primers containing a BamHI or EcoRI site at the 5′ ends. Site-directed mutagenesis for a nucleotide substitution on Asp-1074 within the ATHK1 receiver domain was performed as previously described CITATION. The PCR-amplified fragments were digested with BamHI and EcoRI and then purified on an agarose gel. Resulting fragments were fused in-frame downstream of the coding region of the LexA DNA binding domain in pBTM116, and of the VP16 activation domain in pVP16. Expression plasmids for the cytoplasmic region of ATHK1 (amino acids 477–1207), ETR1 (amino acids 321–721), ERS1 (amino acids 321–613), CKI1 (amino acids 373–1122), and SLN1 (amino acids 547–1220) were generated by PCR-based construction, as described above. Expression plasmids for the full-length coding regions of ATHP1–3 and ATRR1–4 were also constructed by PCR, as described above. The transformants were cultured on His-lacking medium containing 3-aminotriazole (3AT) for 3–7 days at 30°C, and their ability to activate the expression of a HIS3 reporter gene was tested. Subsequently, the colonies were transferred to nylon filters and the activity of a β-galactosidase reporter gene was made visible by a 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-galactopyranoside (X-gal) filter assay. For the β-galactosidase assay, the colonies on the filter were cracked open by being frozen in liquid nitrogen, and then the thawed filters were placed on Whatman 3MM paper soaked in Z buffer (60 mM Na2HPO4, 40 mM NaH2PO4, 10 mM KCl, 1 mM MgSO4, pH 7.0) containing 0.27% β-mercaptoethanol and 0.5 mg/ml X-gal. The filters were incubated at 30°C in the dark for several hours, and the appearance of blue color was monitored. In all experiments, reciprocal combinations of the pLexA and pVP16 plasmids were tested to confirm the positive interactions.
