!~ABS~! Arabidopsis HY5 is a bZIP transcription factor that promotes photomorphogenesis. Previous studies suggested that COP1, a negative regulator of photomorphogenesis, directly interacts with nuclear HY5 and targets it for proteasome‐mediated degradation. Light negatively regulates the nuclear level of COP1 and thus permits HY5 accumulation. Here we report that HY5 abundance peaks in early seedling development, consistent with its role in promoting photomorphogenesis. HY5 acts exclusively within a complex and exists in two isoforms, resulting from phosphorylation within its COP1 binding domain by a light‐ regulated kinase activity. Unphosphorylated HY5 shows stronger interaction with COP1, is the preferred substrate for degradation, has higher affinity to target promoters and is physiologically more active than the phosphorylated version. Therefore, HY5 phosphorylation provides an added level of light‐mediated regulation of HY5 stability and activity besides nuclear COP1 levels. Regulated HY5 phosphorylation not only provides abundant and physiologically more active unphosphorylated HY5 in the light, but also helps to maintain a small pool of less active phosphorylated HY5 in the dark, which could be essential for a rapid initial response during dark‐to‐light transition.
!~RES~! We sought to gain further insight into the role of HY5 in Arabidopsis photomorphogenesis by examination of the expression of HY5 protein at different developmental stages. While HY5 accumulates very little in dark grown seedlings, its level is increased 15‐ to 20‐fold in the light (CITATION). Interestingly, when Arabidopsis seedlings were grown in constant light, HY5 abundance exhibited its highest level 2–3 days after germination and was then followed by a steady decrease (FIG-REF). In extracts from vegetative aerial tissues and old seedlings, HY5 protein was hardly detectable (FIG-REF). The high abundance of HY5 during early seedling development is consistent with its prominent role in promoting commitment to photomorphogenesis. Interestingly, HY5 accumulation finally resumed in inflorescences, reflecting a possible requirement for HY5 activity at this developmental stage. [[FIGURE]] It has been shown that in vivo, many transcription factors act as part of larger protein complexes (CITATION). To determine whether this is also the case for HY5, we analyzed protein extract from wild‐type seedlings by gel filtration chromatography (FIG-REF). This experiment revealed that HY5 is present in a protein complex of ∼150 kDa. Interestingly, no monomeric HY5 was detected, even in a 35S::HY5 overexpression line (CITATION). Rather, some excess HY5 formed high molecular weight aggregates in the latter case. It has been shown that HY5 monomer is predicted to be a monomer of ∼18 kDa, but migrates at 30 kDa in SDS–PAGE (CITATION); thus a HY5 dimer could migrate in the range of 40–60 kDa depending on the shape of the dimer in gel filtration. In any event, a HY5 dimer would be much smaller than the observed 150 kDa size. Thus it seems likely that HY5 associates with other factors, which must be abundant in the cell. Further examination revealed that HY5 is also present in the same size complex in dark‐grown seedlings (data not shown). Therefore, HY5 probably functions exclusively as part of a protein complex. Phosphorylation by CKII modulates the activities of several transcription factors implicated in light‐dependent gene expression (e.g. CITATION; CITATION). As a first step to investigate whether phosphorylation also plays a role in the regulation of HY5, we used bacterially expressed glutathione S‐transferase (GST)–HY5 fusion protein (GSTHY5) as a substrate in in vitro kinase assays in the presence of radioactively labeled ATP. While no autophosphorylation potential was observed in these assays (data not shown), GSTHY5, unlike GST control protein, was a good substrate for phosphorylation by Arabidopsis protein extract (FIG-REF). Interestingly, the responsible kinase activity was higher in extract from dark‐grown seedlings than from light‐grown seedlings. We also observed elevated kinase activity in the extract from a phyA/phyB/phyE triple mutant (CITATION) grown in continuous white light (FIG-REF). However, in the same experiment, no striking difference to wild type in kinase activity was observed in extracts from a double mutant for the blue light receptors (cry1/cry2) (CITATION), an unrelated kinase mutant (ctr1) (CITATION) or hy5 itself. Thus, the light‐dependent reduction of kinase activity directed towards HY5 seems to be mediated primarily by the phytochromes. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether endogenous HY5 is likewise phosphorylated, we enriched HY5 through heparin–Sepharose column chromatography. This HY5 fraction also contained enriched kinase activity. After incubation of the fraction under kinase assay conditions, endogenous HY5 was immunoprecipitated using HY5 antibody (FIG-REF). Again, endogenous HY5 was phosphorylated, as was a smaller protein that cross‐reacts with the HY5 antibody (CITATION). Since the CKII activity involved in light‐dependent gene expression can be enriched via heparin–Sepharose chromatography (CITATION), similar to the enrichment of HY5 and the kinase activity as described above, we examined whether CKII activity is responsible for the HY5 phosphorylation. Indeed, the HY5‐specific kinase activity fulfills several criteria characteristic of CKII (CITATION; FIG-REF): the efficient use of GTP as a phosphate donor instead of ATP, inhibition by low amounts of heparin, and inhibition by the CKII specific inhibitor dichlororibofuranosylbenzimidazole (DRB). Thus, a CKII activity is probably responsible for phosphorylating HY5. Since COP1 has been shown to physically interact with HY5 (CITATION), we sought to determine whether COP1 possibly influences HY5 activity by interfering with HY5 phosphorylation. To test this, increasing amounts of bacterially expressed maltose binding protein–COP1 fusion protein (MBPCOP1) were added to the established in vitro kinase assays. In these experiments, no significant influence of COP1 on HY5 phosphorylation was observed (FIG-REF), indicating that COP1–HY5 interaction does not alter the rate of HY5 phosphorylation in vitro. [[FIGURE]] We also have previously shown that enhancement of HY5 degradation in darkness depends on its interaction with the COP1 protein (CITATION). Thus, we were interested to test whether phosphorylation influences HY5's interaction with COP1. To this end, the GSTHY5 protein was first phosphorylated by the kinase‐containing fraction of enriched seedling extract in an in vitro kinase assay. The non‐specific lambda protein phosphatase was then used to dephosphorylate GSTHY5 (FIG-REF). To test interactions, the capacity of the phosphorylated GSTHY5 (generated by kinase treatment) and dephosphorylated GSTHY5 (generated by a successive lambda protein phosphatase treatment) to pull down bacterially expressed and radioactively labeled FLAG‐tagged COP1 in an in vitro protein interaction assay (CITATION) was compared. Interestingly, the de‐phosphorylated GSTHY5 interacted about four times stronger with COP1 than the phosphorylated protein, as determined by total radioactivity associated with the COP1 band (FIG-REF). As the in vitro phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of GSTHY5 may not be 100% efficient, the observed difference in COP1 binding capacity between the phosphorylated and dephosphorylated forms of GSTHY5 is very likely to be an underestimation. The clear effect of phosphorylation on HY5's ability to interact with COP1 prompted us to examine whether the phosphorylation site overlaps with the COP1 binding domain. It has been shown in yeast two‐hybrid assays that the COP1 interaction domain resides within the N‐terminal 77 amino acids of HY5 (CITATION). A putative CKII phosphorylation site is present in this region (ESDEE, amino acids 35–39; CITATION). We carried out further deletions on both ends of the 77 amino acid fragment and examined their ability to interact with COP1 by yeast two‐hybrid assays (FIG-REF). This enabled us to narrow down further the COP1 interaction domain to a 36 amino acid stretch between residues 25 and 60, which includes the putative CKII site. On the other hand, we have shown previously that a deletion of the first 40 amino acids of HY5, which just removes the putative CKII site, completely abolished its ability to interact with COP1 (CITATION). Together, our results suggest that the CKII site is within the COP1‐interactive domain of HY5. [[FIGURE]] For some transcription factors, it has been shown that phosphorylation by CKII affected their affinities for their DNA targets in vitro (CITATION; CITATION). The G‐boxes in the promoters of the RBCS1a and CHS1 genes are well defined targets of the HY5 protein (CITATION; CITATION). We thus tested whether phosphorylation had any influence on HY5's affinity to these binding sites. To this end, recombinant GSTHY5 protein was again first phosphorylated by treatment with the kinase activity fraction. This phosphorylated GSTHY5 (generated by kinase treatment) and dephosphorylated GSTHY5 (generated by a successive lambda protein phosphatase treatment) were used to test the binding capacity to the G‐box containing promoter fragments in electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs). We observed that for both the CHS1 and the RBCS1a minimal light inducible promoter fragments, dephosphorylation enhanced binding of HY5 to its DNA target in vitro ∼3‐ and 5‐fold (as determined from scintillation counting of the retarded bands), respectively (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). This result indicates that unphosphorylated HY5 is more effective in binding to these promoters. To examine the in vivo phosphorylation status of HY5, we first tested the presence of phosphorylated amino acids in immunoprecipitated HY5 from seedling extract. This was done by western blotting with commercially available monoclonal antibodies against specific phospho‐amino acids. We obtained a signal using anti‐phosphoserine antibody, but not anti‐phosphothreonine or anti‐phosphotyrosine antibodies (data not shown). This finding is consistent with the serine in the CKII site of HY5 being a phosphorylation site in vivo. However, outside the putative CKII site, a stretch of serines in the N‐terminus of HY5 could also be a target for phosphorylation. To test the role of these residues in phosphorylation, we constructed transgenic plants overexpressing wild‐type HY5 (35S:: WT) and mutant versions driven by the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter in a hy5 null mutant background (FIG-REF). One construct expressed a mutant protein in which all serines within the N‐terminal 24 amino acids of HY5 were replaced by alanines [35S::S(N24)A], while in another the serine in the suspected CKII site at position 36 was replaced by an alanine (35S::S36A). The alanine substitutions should abolish any phosphorylation of the respective residues. [[FIGURE]] All transgenes were able to rescue the hy5 mutant phenotype, indicating functionality of the overexpressed mutant proteins (FIG-REF). In line with this observation, we found that the S36A protein is again exclusively present in the HY5 protein complex (data not shown). We had noticed that in wild type, the HY5 antibody lights up a second band on high percentage SDS–polyacrylamide gels, running at a slightly smaller size (FIG-REF). This HY5 doublet band was also present in western blots of both the 35S::WT and 35S::S(N24)A transgenic lines. However, no doublet was observed in the 35S::S36A plants. To correlate further the observed isoforms to phosphorylation, we treated transgenic protein extracts with the lambda protein phosphatase and compared these samples to untreated ones (FIG-REF). We found that both the WT and S(N24)A proteins shifted to a single band, similar in size to the lower band of the doublet in untreated extract. In contrast, only a very minor shift, if any, was observed for the S36A protein. It is of interest to note that the S36A mutant protein did not migrate precisely according to either of the two bands in the wild‐type doublet in our SDS–PAGE. This may be due to the different effect of the serine and alanine at position 36 on the migration behavior of the HY5 protein. However, since all versions of HY5 run as single bands at ∼18 kDa in strongly denaturing SDS–PAGE containing 7% urea (data not shown), we conclude that the unusual migration behavior of HY5 wild‐type and mutant proteins is not caused by major covalent modifications, but rather by subtle changes in conformation or charge. [[FIGURE]] Taken together, our data suggest that the serines located within the 24 N‐terminal amino acids seem to be irrelevant for the observed HY5 isoforms, since the same pattern as in wild type is seen for the S(N24)A mutant protein. However, substitution of the serine located within the predicted CKII site in the 35S::S36A lines abolishes the doublet as well as the shift upon dephosphorylation. Thus, we conclude that phosphorylation of this residue is responsible for the upper band observed in the wild‐type doublet, which seems to represent a phosphorylated isoform of HY5. Since the lower, unphosphorylated isoform of HY5 is hardly ever observed in darkness, even in overexpression lines (FIG-REF), we wanted to investigate whether the different isoforms of HY5 are differentially degraded. Indeed, when light‐grown seedlings expressing the 35S::WT or 35S::S(N24)A transgene were shifted into darkness, we observed preferential disappearance of the unphosphorylated HY5 isoform (FIG-REF). In contrast, in the 35S::S36A lines again only a single band was observed, whose degradation was faster compared with the phosphorylated isoforms in the other two lines. In a previously established in vitro assay (CITATION), in which HY5 is rapidly degraded, we observed both isoforms fading over time (FIG-REF). This might be due to a dynamic equilibrium resulting in oscillation between the two isoforms in this assay. However, again only a single band was observed in the S36A mutant protein, and it seemed to get degraded slightly faster than either the wild‐type or S(N24)A proteins. Moreover, when degradation of wild‐type HY5 in this assay is blocked by the addition of proteasome inhibitors, the faster migrating isoform of HY5 accumulates after an extended time period of 2 h (FIG-REF). This result suggests that degradation is preceded by a conversion into the unphosphorylated form of HY5, which seems to be a better substrate for proteasome‐mediated degradation. Both the in vitro and in vivo data suggest that the unphosphorylated isoform of HY5 is the preferred substrate for degradation. This is consistent with the observation that the unphosphorylated HY5 also has higher affinity for COP1. Thus, the absence of the unphosphorylated isoform of HY5 in dark‐grown seedlings is very likely to reflect it being a preferred target for degradation of the nuclear localized COP1. The fact that unphosphorylated HY5 has higher affinity for the light‐responsive promoter elements implied that the mutant S36A HY5 protein might be a more active form in promoting photomorphogenesis than the wild‐type HY5. However, we failed to detect any consistent phenotypic or physiological differences, such as in hypocotyl length, between seedlings of the different transgenic overexpressor lines [35S::S36A versus 35S::WT or 35S: S(N24)A] under several light regimes examined. As these ectopic overexpression lines driven by the 35S promoter contain ∼50‐ to 100‐fold higher levels of the HY5 complex in seedlings (FIG-REF and data not shown), this vast elevation in HY5 abundance could probably mask any difference in the physiological activity of distinct HY5 forms. It is also possible that expression timing and cell‐type specificity may be a problem with the 35S promoter. Thus, it is critical to determine the activity of the S36A mutant protein expressed in its normal cell types and developmental stages, and at physiological levels. To this end, a mutant S36A HY5 protein was expressed from its native promoter and terminator context (HY5::S36A). Again, the construct was introduced into a hy5 mutant background. Analogous to the 35S::S36A transgenic lines, HY5:: S36A lines were able to rescue the hy5 mutant phenotype. Moreover, in all four transgenic lines examined in detail, we were able to detect overcompensated phenotypic traits influenced by HY5 activity as compared with the wild type. Two prominent defects observed in a hy5 null mutant are the inability to suppress hypocotyl elongation in the light and the enhancement of the initiation and elongation of lateral roots (CITATION). Upon close examination, we found that both of these aspects are affected in the four selected independent HY5::S36A lines. HY5:: S36A plants display a shorter hypocotyl in the light than wild type (FIG-REF). Moreover, they show a considerable delay in the initiation of lateral roots (FIG-REF). Thus, both of these traits are opposite to the mutant phenotype and exaggerated as compared with wild‐type seedlings or hy5 mutant seedlings expressing a transgenic wild‐type HY5 under its own promoter context. Our western blot analysis of the four transgenic lines indicated that their HY5 protein level was similar to the wild‐type seedlings. Thus, the data confirmed the prediction that the unphosphorylated isoform of HY5 is indeed the physiologically more active isoform in vivo. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plant growth conditions were essentially as described (CITATION). Seeds were surface sterilized (5% bleach, 0.1% Tween 20) for 15 min and washed three times with sterile water before spreading onto 0.7% agar plates containing half‐strength Murashige and Skoog basal salt mixture (Sigma) and 0.3% sucrose. The plates were vernalized for 3 days in darkness at 4°C and then placed in the light. Most Arabidopsis materials were in the Wassilewskaja ecotype background unless stated otherwise. The lines used in FIG-REF were the cry1‐304/cry2‐1 double mutant (CITATION), the ctr1‐2 mutant (CITATION), the hy5‐215 mutant (CITATION) and the phyA‐201/phyB‐5/phyE triple mutant (CITATION). Western blots were performed according to standard procedures. For detection of the primary antibodies, a peroxidase coupled anti‐rabbit‐IgG antibody (Boehringer Mannheim) was used in conjunction with an enhanced chemiluminescence detection system (Amersham). The antibody used to detect HY5 protein has been described previously (CITATION). Antibodies against phospho‐amino acids were purchased from Sigma. Three‐day‐old light‐grown seedlings (∼100) were ground in liquid nitrogen and the powder was resuspended in 200 μl of buffer (400 mM sucrose, 50 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 2.5 mM EDTA, 10 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride). The extract was cleared by microcentrifugation first, and subsequently filtered through a 0.2 μm syringe filter. The cleared extract was then passed through a Superdex 200 (Pharmacia) gel filtration column with elution buffer (0.203 g/l NaH2PO4, 1.15 g/l Na2HPO4, 8.5 g/l NaCl, 2 mM MgCl2, 0.1% Tween). After a 7 ml void volume, 26 fractions of 0.5 ml each were collected. The protein in the fractions was concentrated using Strataresin (Stratagene) and resuspended in a final volume of 50 μl of sample buffer. Assays were done in 50 mM HEPES pH 7.3, 1 mM MgCl2, 0.2 mM CaCl2, 0.1 mM EGTA and 6.7 μM of [γ‐32P]ATP (3000 mCi/mmol). GST or GSTHY5 (1 μg) was added to 5 μg of plant extract (extracted in 50 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 1 mM EDTA) and incubated at room temperature for 30 min. Glutathione–Sepharose beads (25 μl; Pharmacia), washed once with 1× PBS (137 mM NaCl, 2.7 mM KCl, 4.3 mM Na2HPO4, 1.4 mM KH2PO4, pH 7.3), were added and samples were incubated for another 30 min with occasional mixing. Beads were recovered by centrifugation and washed four times in 1× PBS. Samples were resuspended in 30 μl of protein sample buffer and run on 10% SDS–polyacrylamide gels. For endogenous HY5, 8 μg of protein from the heparin–Sepharose‐column fraction (see below) was incubated in a kinase assay, and HY5 was immunoprecipitated with antibody coupled to protein A beads (Pharmacia). Inhibitors used in FIG-REF were purchased from Calbiochem. Extract from 2.5 g fresh weight of seedlings grown for 3–5 days in the light was resuspended in 10 ml of buffer (100 mM NaCl, 20 mM Tris–HCl pH 8.0, 2 mM MgCl2, 8% glycerol, 0.1% Tween), cleared by centrifugation and loaded onto a 20 ml heparin–Sepharose column (Pharmacia). The column was washed with 10 vol buffer before bound protein was eluted in 26 fractions of 5 ml each with a 0.2–1.0 M NaCl gradient. Fractions containing HY5 were determined by western blot analysis. For immunoprecipitations, 9 vol ice‐cold acetone were added to plant extract or assays, respectively, and total protein was precipitated by centrifugation. The protein pellet was resuspended in 1 vol TBS–TS (20 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% Triton X‐100, 0.1% SDS) and then 9 vol TBS (TBS‐TS lacking Triton and SDS) were added. Insoluble material was spun down and the supernatant was transferred into another tube. Protein A–Sepharose beads (25 μl; Pharmacia) coupled to anti‐HY5 antibody were added and the suspension was nutated for 6 h at 4°C. Beads were recovered by centrifugation and washed three times in TBS‐TS. Finally, 50 μl of 1× protein sample buffer was added and the samples were boiled for 5 min before loading onto an SDS–polyacrylamide gel. Fusion proteins were purified from Escherichia coli as described previously (CITATION). GST (1 μg) or 0.5 μg of GSTHY5 was incubated with 8 μg protein from the kinase containing heparin–Sepharose fraction in kinase buffer and 1 mM ATP for 30 min at room temperature. One of two parallel sets of samples was then treated with 400 U of lambda protein phosphatase for another 30 min. GST or GSTHY5 was then coated to glutathione–Sepharose beads (Pharmacia) and washed four times with 1× PBS. FLAG‐COP1 (800 ng) containing a heart muscle kinase (HMK) site was radioactively labeled in HMK buffer [20 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 1 mM dithiothreitol (DTT), 100 mM NaCl, 12 mM MgCl2] with 6.7 μM of [γ‐32P]ATP (3000 mCi/mmol) and 20 U of HMK (Sigma) for 1 h at 37°C in a 100 μl reaction. Labeled COP1 (25 μl) and 200 μl of interaction buffer (0.5% BSA, 20 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 4 mM MgCl2, 1 mM DTT, 0.5% tergitol, 100 mM NaCl) were then added to the GST‐ or GSTHY5‐coated beads. Reactions were nutated overnight at 4°C, and beads were washed four times with 1× NTE buffer (500 mM NaCl, 10 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 1 mM EDTA). Finally, the beads were resuspended in 30 μl of protein sample buffer and boiled for 5 min. The samples were then run on a 10% SDS–polyacrylamide gel. Quantification of bands was performed by scintillation counting. Approximately 80 ng of GSTHY5 were preincubated with 320 ng protein of the kinase containing heparin–Sepharose fraction in kinase buffer and 0.5 mM ATP at room temperature for 30 min. The sample was split in half and one half was treated with 320 U of lambda protein phosphatase. GSTHY5 (40 ng) in a 6 μl volume was then added to 19 μl of a mix containing 5 μl of 5× binding buffer (75 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 175 mM KCl, 5 mM EDTA, 30% glycerol, 5 mM DTT, 1 mM MgCl2), 20 000 c.p.m. of 32P‐labeled (1.65 × 107 d.p.m.) promoter fragment (CITATION; CITATION) and 1 μg of dI‐dC (Pharmacia). Reactions were incubated at room temperature for 20 min and run on a 5% strength non‐denaturing polyacrylamide gel in 0.25× TBE buffer. Quantification of bands was performed by scintillation counting. Interaction trap assays in yeast were performed as described previously (CITATION). Truncated versions of the COP1 interacting domain of HY5 were amplified by PCR using Pfu polymerase (Stratagene). These were cloned into the vector pEG202 in frame with the lexA DNA binding domain via restriction sites introduced into the primers. Constructs were verified for their integrity by sequencing. Yeast transformants were grown on selective medium containing glucose overnight. To induce expression of the activation domain fusion protein, cells were washed twice in water and then resuspended in selective medium containing galactose as a carbon source. After 10 h of growth under inductive conditions, liquid β‐galactosidase assays were performed and the activity in relative units was calculated according to CITATION. HY5 cDNAs for transgenic overexpression constructs were designed by site‐directed mutagenesis and cloned into a derivative of pGPTV‐BAR (CITATION) for expression under control of the full‐length 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter and the nopaline synthase terminator. For expression under its own promoter, the cDNA giving rise to a S36A mutant protein was cloned between the native HY5 promoter and terminator (CITATION). Transgenic plants were obtained by Agrobacterium‐mediated transformation of the hy5 allele KS50 (CITATION; CITATION). Homozygous lines were then established from primary transformants. The transgenes were amplified from the transformants by PCR and the PCR products were directly sequenced to confirm the integrity of the constructs. For analysis of the HY5 protein in the overexpressors, two or more independent transgenic lines per construct were analyzed. For the transgenics expressing the S36A HY5 gene under its own promoter, four single insertion lines were selected for more detailed analysis and similar results were obtained. Protein was extracted from light‐grown seedlings in lambda protein phosphatase buffer (New England Biolabs), cleared by centrifugation and incubated at room temperature for 20 min with or without 400 U of phosphatase. An equal volume of 2× protein sample buffer was added and the reactions were boiled for 5 min and compared on 15% SDS–polyacrylamide gels. The cell‐free degradation assay was performed as described (CITATION). Protein extract was prepared from 3‐day‐old light‐grown seedlings and resuspended in buffer (25 mM Tris pH 7.5, 10 mM MgCl2, 5 mM DTT, 10 mM NaCl, 10 mM ATP). The samples were then incubated at room temperature and aliquots were taken at the time points indicated. The reaction was stopped by the addition of an equal volume of 2× sample buffer. For the inhibitor study, the extract aliquots were incubated for 2 h in the presence of the supplements indicated (Calbiochem). HY5 was then detected using western blot analysis of equal amounts of sample.
