!~ABS~! The Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain WYT, deficient in the YAP1 transcription factor, was used in a molecular screen to identify genes from Arabidopsis thaliana that could overcome the oxidative stress-sensitive phenotype of these yeast cells. A cDNA named CEO1 increased the tolerance to oxidative damage caused by tert-butylhydroperoxide of both the Yap1− mutant and the wild-type yeast. Additionally, in Yap1− yeast, CEO1 also induced cross-tolerance to oxidative damage caused by hydrogen peroxide and diamide. CEO1 was assigned as being part of a small gene family that, until now, is exclusively restricted to plants. In Arabidopsis, CEO1 was produced in all organs, especially in roots and stems. By using the yeast two-hybrid system, proteins that specifically interact with CEO1 in yeast were identified, and putative DNA-binding proteins were consistently recovered.
!~RES~! An A. thaliana cDNA library from young seedlings that was constructed in the yeast high copy number expression vector pFL61 CITATION was used to transform the WYT strain of S. cerevisiae. This yeast strain is hypersensitive to hydroperoxides because of the deficiency in the YAP1 transcription regulator CITATION. Transformant cells were plated on SD URA− medium containing 0.2 or 0.5 mM tBuOOH. Primary resistant colonies were grown in liquid medium, serially diluted, and spotted onto SD URA− plates supplemented with tBuOOH. Two clones, named C81 and C90, were consistently more resistant to 0.2 mM tBuOOH than the control WYT strain transformed with the vector pFL61. The plasmids from these two clones, named pC81 and pC90, were rescued and partially sequenced. To verify the ability of the selected cDNAs to confer yeast tolerance against oxidative stress, the mutant WYT strain was transformed with the candidate plasmids and the survival of the transformants was evaluated in tBuOOH tolerance assays. WYT (pC81) and WYT (pC90) exponentially growing cells were largely resistant to 0.2 and 0.3 mM tBuOOH, concentrations, which virtually suppressed the growth of the control WYT (pFL61) cells (CITATION, top). In stationary phase, though basal stress resistance is increased in yeast CITATION, again a slight growth improvement was observed in the cells transformed with the C81 and C90 cDNAs (CITATION, middle). To analyze whether the observed biological activity of the isolated plant cDNAs is Yap1 dependent, the DY yeast strain, which is isogenic to WYT and contains a functional Yap1 gene CITATION, was transformed with the selected plasmids. The sensitivity to tBuOOH was assessed in stationary phase transformant cells. As expected, the DY strain could tolerate higher concentrations of tBuOOH than the WYT strain and the DY (pC81) and DY (pC90) transformants were more tolerant to tBuOOH than the control DY (pFL61) cells, in particular when high concentrations (0.4 mM) were used (CITATION, bottom). Because the plasmids pC81 and pC90 were isolated from independent clones, conferred identical levels of protection, and contained the same open reading frame (ORF), only pC81 was used for additional studies. We then tested whether the isolated Arabidopsis cDNA can confer a cross-tolerance to other elicitors of oxidative damage, in particular to H2O2 and diamide. Cell cultures from the logarithmic phase showed that WYT (pC81) transformants are more resistant to 1.5 mM diamide and to 0.5 mM H2O2 than WYT (pFL61) cells (CITATION top). Similarly, WYT (pC81) in stationary phase was slightly more tolerant to 0.5 mM diamide and 0.5 mM H2O2 than the control (CITATION, bottom). The DNA sequencing of pC81 and pC90 showed that they contain an identical cDNA, which will be referred to as CEO1 hereafter (acronym for clone eighty-one). CEO1 is 2471 bp long and is nearly full length because a major transcript of approximately 2.4 kb was detected in an RNA gel blot of total Arabidopsis RNA (CITATION). Additionally, CEO1 could also cross-hybridize to a second messenger, which might represent a close homologous gene (CITATION). Although expressed at different levels in Arabidopsis organs, more in stems and roots than in leaves and flowers, CEO1 gene would probably have a constitutive expression (CITATION). To analyze CEO1 expression under oxidative stress conditions, Arabidopsis plants were infiltrated with the oxidants H2O2 and tBuOOH, the redox-cycling compounds methyl viologen and menadione, and the thiol-oxidizing drug diamide, as previously described CITATION. The CEO1 mRNA levels were evaluated by RNA gel blot analysis. Under the experimental conditions used, the expression of CEO1 was unresponsive to oxidative stress (data not shown). CEO1 cDNA encodes a polypeptide of 589 amino acids (CEO1) with a deduced molecular mass of 65.7 kDa. The ORF of this polypeptide is preceded in the 5′ leader sequence of the cDNA by three short ORFs of 19 (ORF-1 from nucleotide 30 to 86), 21 (ORF-2 from nucleotide 249 to 312), and eight (ORF-3 from nucleotide 314 to 337) amino acids and by seven in-frame stop codons. Because only the longest ORF (CEO1) showed some homology to proteins in the databank, we presumed that this was the protein encoded by the CEO1 gene. Additionally, in yeast tolerance assays, the longest ORF was sufficient to confer tolerance to tBuOOH (data not shown). A databank search with the putatively encoded CEO1 polypeptide did not reveal significant homology with any protein of known function. CEO1 belongs to a small multigene family of Arabidopsis composed of at least five members (CITATION). The 568 amino acid long polypeptide named CEO2 was probably a close homologue of CEO1 because both proteins were 65.0% identical and 72.3% similar (CITATION). CEO3, CEO4, and CEO5 shared significantly less homology at the amino acid level (CITATION) and lacked the conserved amino-terminal part of CEO1 and CEO2 (CITATION). Sequence analysis using the program PSORT version 6.4 (http://psort.nibb.ac.jp) indicated the presence of three putative nuclear localization signals (NLSs). NLSs are defined amino acid sequences, characterized by a core peptide enriched in arginine (R) and lysine (K), which are required for an active import of proteins with a molecular mass larger than 40–60 kDa into the nucleus CITATION. These three NLSs were located at positions 19, 54, and 319 in the CEO1 polypeptide (CITATION) and these putative NLSs could also be found at conserved positions in CEO2 (CITATION). Because CEO1 had no typical DNA-binding consensus sequences but weakly activated the expression of reporter genes in yeast (data not shown), the CEO1 function might involve the cooperation of other (DNA-binding) proteins. Therefore, and based in the presumption that protein–protein interaction data might contribute to understand the role of CEO1, we carried out a two-hybrid screening. To this end, the reporter HF7c yeast cells were transformed with the bait plasmid pGBT9-CEO1 and with a plasmid cDNA library from A. thaliana, which encodes proteins as carboxyl-terminal fusions with the transcriptional activation domain of GAL4. The screening was done on SD media supplemented with 20 mM AT, which completely abolished background growth of the HF7c (pGBT9-CEO1) strain. The His3, β-Lac-positive clones were isolated and further analyzed. After genetic reconfirmation of interaction in yeast and subsequent DNA sequence analysis, 16 different plant cDNAs were identified. Most of these identified cDNAs encoded putative polypeptides of unknown function. Two cDNAs, however, coded for proteins that shared homology with DNA-binding proteins from the putative transcriptional factor families CONSTANS (CO) and ethylene-responsive element-binding protein (EREBP), respectively. One of the cDNAs encoded the protein STO (X95572) from A. thaliana, a protein that confers salt tolerance to yeast CITATION. STO is highly similar to putative zinc finger-containing proteins, such as CO (Gi 2695703). These proteins are characterized by the presence of two highly conserved putative zinc finger domains each consisting of two pairs of cysteine residues separated by 16 amino acids (Cys-X2-Cys-X16-Cys-X2-Cys). The organization of this motif was similar to that found in the transcription factors from the GATA-1 subfamily, which have two zinc finger domains with the structure Cys-X2-Cys-X17-Cys-X2-Cys CITATION. The second cDNA coded for a putative protein that was homologous to a large group of proteins that contain the DNA-binding motif AP2. In particular, the strongest homology was found in the DNA-binding domain of several ‘related to AP2’ (RAP2) proteins from Arabidopsis and EREBP proteins from Nicotiana tabacum. These proteins are classified as members of the EREBP subfamily of the AP2/EREBP superfamily of transcription factors CITATION. Next, we carried out the deletion analysis of the CEO1-coding sequence. The two-hybrid assay was also used to identify domains of interaction of CEO1 with its preys. For this purpose, five deletions in the coding region of CEO1 were generated by PCR (see CITATION) and cloned into the pGBT9 vector as carboxyl-terminal fusions with the DNA-binding domain of GAL4. Yeast HF7c was transformed with all combinations of the CEO1 deletions and the isolated preys. The protein–protein interactions were assessed by growth of the transformants in SD His− medium with or without 20 mM AT and by subsequent β-galactosidase staining. As summarized in CITATION, the interacting domain of CEO1 was located in its carboxyl-terminal part, between the amino acids 345 and 589.
!~MM~! The Escherichia coli strain XL1 (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) was used for molecular cloning. Bacteria were grown on standard Luria Broth medium supplemented with antibiotics when required. The near isogenic S. cerevisiae strains DY (MATa his3 can1-100 ade2 leu2 trp1 ura3::(3xSV40AP1-lacz)) and WYT (YAP1− mutant) (MATa his3 can1-100 ade2 leu2 trp1 ura3 yap1::TRP1) were used for the screening tests of drug tolerance. Yeast strains were grown on either nutrient-rich YPD medium (1% yeast extract, 2% bactopeptone, 2% glucose) supplemented with 50 mg l−1 of adenine or in minimal SD medium (0.67% yeast nitrogen base; Difco, Detroit, MI, USA), 2% glucose supplemented either with 0.37% casamino acids or individual amino acids. Dishes contained the same media with 1.5% agar. Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), tBuOOH, and diamide were purchased from Sigma (St. Louis, MO, USA). An Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. cDNA library constructed in the yeast expression vector pFL61 was a gift of Dr. M. Minet CITATION. The tBuOOH resistance screening was carried out as follows. WYT cells were transformed with the cDNA library and uracil prototrophic colonies were selected on minimal SD URA− media plates for 4 days. The transformed cells were harvested and stored in 60% glycerol. Aliquots of cells were plated onto SD URA− medium supplemented with 0.2 or 0.5 mM tBuOOH. Putative clones that were resistant against tBuOOH appeared after 4–7 days of incubation at 30°C and were inoculated in 2 ml of SD URA− liquid medium. Cultures were rescreened for the resistance phenotype in a semi-quantitative drug tolerance test. For that test, 10 μl of 3-fold serial dilutions of each yeast culture were spotted onto SD URA− plates supplemented with or without tBuOOH. WYT cells transformed with the vector pFL61 were used as control. Individual clones which grew on a medium supplemented with 0.2 mM tBuOOH were further analyzed. Shuttle plasmids from individual clones were rescued into E. coli as described CITATION. To confirm the drug tolerance phenotype, either the WYT or the DY strains were transformed with the selected plasmids. Three independent transformants were used for the drug tolerance by using a semi-quantitative dilution test. Yeast cells were grown in liquid SD URA− medium at 30°C until logarithmic or stationary phase. Cell suspensions corresponding to an OD600 of 0.45 were serially diluted (1/3, 1/9, 1/27, 1/81, and 1/243) in 0.3% NaCl and 10 μl of dilutions were spotted on SD URA− plates supplemented with or without drugs. After 3–4 days of incubation at 30°C, growth was estimated. The drug tolerance of WYT cells was tested with the following concentrations of drugs: 0.2 and 0.3 mM tBuOOH, 0.5 and 1.5 mM diamide, and 0.5 mM H2O2. DY transformants were spotted on SD plates supplemented with 0.2 and 0.4 mM tBuOOH. The screening for protein–protein interaction was carried out using the Matchmacker Two-Hybrid System (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA) and the CEO1 protein as a bait. The Arabidopsis cDNA library, prepared from 3 weeks old plants, was purchased from Clontech. To prepare the CEO1 bait vector, the CEO1-coding region was amplified by PCR using the Pfu DNA polymerase, a pair of gene-specific primers, and the linearized pC81 plasmid as a template. The 5′ ends of PCR primers included EcoRI and SmaI recognition sites and their sequences were: 5′-AAGCGGCCGCGAATTCATGGAAGCCAAGATCGTC-3′ and 5′-AACCCGGGCGGCCGCCAATCCACCTGCACC-3′. Screenings were carried out in 20 mM 3-aminotriazole (AT) because the GAL4-CEO1 protein showed slight trans-activating properties in the HF7c yeast. Genetic verification of in yeast protein interactions was done with the set of control plasmids supplied by the manufacturer (Clontech). For the deletion analysis of the CEO1 protein, respective parts of the cDNA were amplified by PCR and used to prepare translational fusions between Gal4 and the following parts of the CEO1 protein: amino acid residues from 1 to 280 (ΔCEO1-1), 1–401 (ΔCEO1-2), 221–589 (ΔCEO1-3), 345–589 (ΔCEO1-4), and 221–401 (ΔCEO1-5). Total RNA of A. thaliana was extracted and hybridized as previously described CITATION. DNA sequencing was done on both strands on an ABI373A automatic DNA sequencer (Applied Biosystems, Fullerton, CA, USA) using gene-specific primers and fluorescent dye terminators. The DNA and protein sequences were analyzed with a software package from Genetics Computer Group (GCG, Madison, WI, USA).
