!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis COP9 signalosome is a multisubunit repressor of photomorphogenesis that is conserved among eukaryotes. This complex may have a general role in development. As a step in dissecting the biochemical mode of action of the COP9 signalosome, we determined the sequence of proteins that copurify with this complex. Here we describe the association between components of the COP9 signalosome (CSN1, CSN7, and CSN8) and two subunits of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 (eIF3), eIF3e (p48, known also as INT-6) and eIF3c (p105). To obtain a biochemical marker forArabidopsis eIF3, we cloned the Arabidopsisortholog of the eIF3 subunit eIF3b (PRT1). eIF3e coimmunoprecipitated with CSN7, and eIF3c coimmunoprecipitated with eIF3e, eIF3b, CSN8, and CSN1. eIF3e directly interacted with CSN7 and eIF3c. However, eIF3e and eIF3b cofractionated by gel filtration chromatography in a complex that was larger than the COP9 signalosome. Whereas eIF3, as detected through eIF3b, localized solely to the cytoplasm, eIF3e, like CSN7, was also found in the nucleus. This suggests that eIF3e and eIF3c are probably components of multiple complexes and that eIF3e and eIF3c associate with subunits of the COP9 signalosome, even though they are not components of the COP9 signalosome core complex. This interaction may allow for translational control by the COP9 signalosome. 
!~RES~! To elucidate the composition of the COP9 signalosome, the complex was originally purified from cauliflower, and the peptides from individual proteins were microsequenced (CITATION, CITATION). Based on amino acid sequence data from four cauliflower peptides, an Arabidopsis cDNA for p48 was identified. This cDNA has an open reading frame of 1326 base pairs that encodes 441 amino acids with a predicted mass of 51,808 Da and a pI of 5.92. The Arabidopsis protein is highly similar to cauliflower, with 68 of the 75 amino acids from the cauliflower peptides being identical to the Arabidopsis protein. The cDNA encodes a protein highly similar to the eIF3e subunit of mammalian eIF3 and its likely homologs (TableI). We therefore refer to this protein asArabidopsis eIF3e. eIF3e is found on chromosome 3, BAC F2809. No protein similar to eIF3e was found in S. cerevisiae. Like mammalian eIF3e and other subunits of eIF3 and the COP9 signalosome, eIF3e contains a C-terminal PCI domain. Sequence data base searches indicate that eIF3e is most likely a single gene in Arabidopsis.  [[TABLE]] Although the human eIF3e is postulated to be a subunit of eIF3 (CITATION), it is also found in the nucleus (CITATION), has recently been shown to interact with the interferon signaling pathway (CITATION), and is similar to the S2 subunit of the mammalian COP9 signalosome (CITATION). To analyze further eIF3e, and its possible interaction with either the COP9 signalosome or eIF3, we needed a control protein that is thought to be solely a component of eIF3. eIF3b is a known subunit of eIF3 in yeast and humans (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). eIF3b is found exclusively in a high molecular weight complex (CITATION), and in yeast mutants, eIF3b was unstable outside of the eIF3 complex (CITATION). In addition, eIF3b did not copurify with the COP9 signalosome (CITATION, CITATION). We identified a cDNA encoding a putative homolog of eIF3b in Arabidopsis. The cDNA encodes a protein with a predicted molecular mass of 82,125 Da that is highly similar over its entire length to the eIF3b subunit of mammalian and yeast eIF3 and its likely homologs (TableII). As for other eIF3b proteins, theArabidopsis protein contains a domain common to a number of RNA-binding proteins between amino acids 75 and 132.  [[TABLE]] Antibodies were generated against eIF3e and eIF3b, and affinity-purified as described under “Experimental Procedures.” The similarity of Arabidopsis eIF3e, eIF3c, and eIF3b with their animal counterparts, which are components of eIF3, suggests that these three proteins also interact in Arabidopsis in the same complex. If the three proteins are components of the same complex, we reasoned that antibodies against one should immunoprecipitate the others. On the other hand, if one or more of the proteins interact with the COP9 signalosome or its subunits, then we expect that these antibodies will precipitate subunits of the COP9 signalosome. To test this hypothesis, total protein extracts from Arabidopsiswere incubated with antibodies against eIF3e, eIF3b, CSN1, or CSN8, and the immunoprecipitate was analyzed by protein blot with antibodies against eIF3c or CSN7. As seen in Fig.1 A, eIF3c coimmunoprecipitated with eIF3e and eIF3b, indicating that these three proteins are components of the same protein complex, presumably eIF3. eIF3c also coimmunoprecipitated with CSN8 and CSN1 (Fig. 1 A), confirming our earlier yeast two-hybrid analysis. Since CSN8 and CSN1 proteins are found solely as components of the COP9 signalosome and are unstable as monomers (CITATION), these results suggest that the interaction is between eIF3c and these proteins in the COP9 signalosome. eIF3e coimmunoprecipitated a core component of the COP9 signalosome, CSN7, in extracts from both wild type and cop9 mutants, whereas antibodies against eIF3b did not coimmunoprecipitate CSN7 (Fig.1 B). These results suggest that eIF3e and eIF3c interact with both complexes, eIF3 and the COP9 signalosome, whereas eIF3b has no connection to the COP9 signalosome. It must be pointed out that all immunoprecipitates were washed with RIPA buffer, conditions that would not allow identification of weak interactions.  [[FIGURE]] CSN7 exists both as a component of the COP9 signalosome and in a COP9 signalosome-independent form (CITATION). The coimmunoprecipitation assays suggested that CSN7 and eIF3e reside in the same protein complex. Because Arabidopsis cop9 mutants lack the COP9 signalosome, and CSN7 exists as a monomer or lower molecular weight form in this mutant, the interaction of eIF3e with CSN7 incop9 mutants (Fig. 1 B) suggests that eIF3e interacts directly with the CSN7 monomer. To test this hypothesis, we examined the interaction of eIF3e with CSN7 in a heterologous system in the absence of other Arabidopsis proteins or recognizable homologs of the COP9 signalosome. To this end, we have used the yeast two-hybrid assay (CITATION). As shown in Fig.2 A, eIF3e did not interact with the LexA domain by itself. The interaction of eIF3e with CSN7 clearly activated β-galactosidase activity indicating a direct interaction between eIF3e and CSN7 and further supporting the immunoprecipitation data. eIF3e also interacted with eIF3c, suggesting that the immunoprecipitation of eIF3c and eIF3e is a result of direct interaction between these proteins.  [[FIGURE]] As the immunoprecipitation results suggested that eIF3b interacts with eIF3c, but not the COP9 signalosome, we monitored eIF3b further for direct protein-protein interactions in yeast. As seen in Fig.2 B, eIF3b results in variable levels of reporter gene expression by itself. Despite this, the results clearly show a direct interaction between eIF3b and eIF3c. eIF3b did not interact with either CSN1 or CSN8. eIF3b also appears not to interact with eIF3e and CSN7, although the high variability of the eIF3b-LexA-carrying strains is problematic in this analysis. In summary, the yeast two-hybrid assay has substantiated the hypothesis that interaction of the signalosome subunits is specific for the e subunit but not the b subunit of eIF3.  To substantiate further the direct interaction between eIF3e and CSN7 and eIF3c, an in vitro pull-down assay was used to determine whether these proteins interact in the absence of other plant or yeast proteins. As shown in Fig. 3 Athe amount of GST-eIF3e protein that was “pulled down” increased as the amount of His6-CSN7 protein increased, whereas the control failed to pull down GST-eIF3e. Similar results were obtained in a pull-down experiment using equal amounts of His6-eIF3c and increasing amounts of GST-eIF3e on glutathione-Sepharose beads (Fig. 3 B).  [[FIGURE]] The two-hybrid results are consistent with the immunoprecipitation analysis. Taken together with the in vitro pull-down assay, these results strongly indicate that eIF3e, but not eIF3b, interacts directly with CSN7 and eIF3c.  To address the potential function of the COP9 signalosome interactive protein eIF3e, we examined its subcellular localization in relation to that of eIF3b and CSN7. If eIF3e and eIF3b both functioned solely as subunits of eIF3, then we expect that they will show identical localization patterns, most likely exclusively cytoplasmic localization. As a first test, eIF3e was expressed transiently as a green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein in onion epidermal cells, where it was found in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus (Fig.4, B and F). The distribution of eIF3e-GFP was similar to that of three core subunits of the COP9-signalosome, namely CSN1, CSN8 (CITATION), and CSN7 (data not shown). GFP-eIF3e had a higher level of nuclear localization than a GFP dimer (Fig. 4, A and E), even though its molecular mass (80 kDa) is larger than that of the GFP dimer (55 kDa). Therefore, even though the nuclear level did not approach that of a nuclear control protein, GFP-NIa (Fig. 4, D andH), eIF3e appears to have an intrinsic propensity for nuclear uptake. In contrast, a GFP-eIF3b fusion showed exclusively cytoplasmic localization (Fig. 4, C and G), as expected for a subunit of eIF3.  [[FIGURE]] Subsequently, an immunocytochemical assay was employed to determine the localization of endogenous eIF3e as well as of eIF3b and CSN7 inArabidopsis protoplasts that were counterstained with DAPI. Endogenous eIF3e was primarily cytoplasmic in protoplasts derived from seedling leaf tissue (Fig. 5,D and H). However, protoplasts from roots often revealed both cytoplasmic as well as nuclear and/or perinuclear staining of eIF3e (Fig. 5, C and G). By comparison, as expected, β-glucuronidase was always cytoplasmic in protoplasts from roots (Fig. 5, A and E). On the other hand, the majority of Arabidopsis eIF3b was cytoplasmic in protoplasts isolated from seedling roots and leaves (Fig. 5, I and M, and J andN). The localization of eIF3e overlapped that of the CSN7 protein, which was found in both nucleus and cytoplasm of root and leaf protoplasts (Fig. 5, K and O, and Land P).  [[FIGURE]] In summary, the subcellular localization of eIF3e was clearly distinct from that of eIF3b and similar to CSN7. These results are consistent with the interpretation that eIF3b functions only as a subunit of a cytoplasmic complex (eIF3), whereas eIF3e functions in multiple complexes both in the cytoplasm as well as in the nucleus. The subcellular localization data are also consistent with a direct interaction between eIF3e and the CSN7. Moreover, the nuclear localization of eIF3e may be regulated by cell type-specific factors.  The high level of amino acid identity between eIF3e and eIF3b and their mammalian orthologs suggested that they are components of the eIF3 complex. On the other hand, the interactions presented above indicate that eIF3e is also part of the COP9 signalosome. To determine if eIF3e and eIF3b are found in a large molecular weight complex, total soluble proteins from cauliflower buds and Arabidopsis roots were separated by gel filtration chromatography, and the fractions were subjected to Western blot analysis with α-eIF3e and α-eIF3b antibodies. In both tissues, the peak elutions of eIF3e and eIF3b were in a large molecular weight species, which is larger than the COP9 signalosome, as shown by the elution profile of CSN7 (Fig. 6). However, as we have shown for eIF3c, both eIF3e and eIF3b were also present in the 500-kDa fractions. In roots, the elution profile of CSN7 extended into the higher molecular weight fractions, overlapping the elution profile of eIF3e and eIF3b (Fig. 6). This gel filtration shoulder in the high molecular weight fractions is similar to the elution profile of the COP9 signalosome subunit CSN8 from dark-grownArabidopsis seedlings (CITATION), suggesting a heterogeneous pool of complexes containing the COP9 signalosome in roots. In summary, although eIF3e and eIF3b are primarily found in a complex larger than the COP9 signalosome, a larger COP9 signalosome overlapping eIF3 was detected in roots, the same tissue, where eIF3e colocalizes with the CSN.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Wild type plants are in the Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia background. Thecop9-1 mutant is in the Wassilewskija background (CITATION). Plant germination and growth conditions in darkness and white light were as described previously (CITATION). Day/night cycle conditions consisted of 16 h of white light at 75 μmol m− 2s− 1 and 8 h of darkness. Brassica oleracea (cauliflower) was purchased at the supermarket.  Internal peptide sequences of the cauliflower COP9 signalosome-associated protein eIF3e were described previously (CITATION). Based on amino acid sequence data from four peptides, a cDNA (EST number 142E10T7) for eIF3e was identified through theArabidopsis genome sequencing effort, sequenced on both strands, and deposited under GenBankTM accession number AF255679.  A search of the Arabidopsis data base with the human eIF3b identified an expressed sequence tag (EST clone 195A21T7) of 578 base pairs. This EST was used as a probe in a screen of a λZAPII size-fractionated cDNA library from Arabidopsis (CITATION). The library was screened as described for eIF3c (CITATION). Phages from positive clones were excised in vivo according to standard procedure. The longest cDNA clone found was sequenced, and the sequence was confirmed through comparison with the genomic eIF3b sequence (accession number AC005405) and deposited under GenBankTM accession number AF255680.  The complete coding sequence of eIF3e was cloned into the pET29b vector (Novagen, Madison, WI) and a pGEX-3C vector (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). Because of poor solubility of the His6-tagged eIF3e, the protein was solubilized with SDS sample buffer and run on an SDS-PAGE gel. The fusion protein was cut from the gel and used to immunize rabbits (AniLab, Rehovot, Israel). For affinity purification of the antibodies, the glutathione S-transferase (GST)-eIF3e fusion was immobilized on an N-hydroxysuccinimide Hi-Trap column (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). Antibodies bound to the GST-eIF3e protein were eluted with low pH buffer (2 m glycine, pH 2.5). The resulting affinity purified anti-eIF3e antibodies were neutralized by addition of 1 m Tris-HCl, pH 8.8.  The sequence encoding amino acids 58–538 of eIF3b was cloned into pGEX-4T1 and pET28a. GST-eIF3b fusion protein was over-produced inEscherichia coli strain BL21 and was used to immunize rabbits (AniLab, Rehovot, Israel). The His6-eIF3b was purified on a nickel column, and eIF3b antibodies were affinity-purified over HIS6-eIF3b coupled to anN-hydroxysuccinimide Hi-Trap column (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) as described above.   Arabidopsis or cauliflower, as indicated, was ground in liquid nitrogen, and the powder was suspended in a phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, containing 10% glycerol, 10 mm NaCl, 10 mm MgCl2, and 5 mm EDTA with freshly added proteinase inhibitors including 0.5 mmphenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride and Complete Protease Inhibitor Mixture Tablets (Roche Molecular Biochemicals). Protein concentrations were determined by the BCA protein assay (Pierce). Proteins separated by SDS-PAGE were transferred to Immobilon-P membranes (Millipore, Bedford, MA) and probed with 1:5000 dilution of affinity-purified rabbit polyclonal antibodies. Bound antibody was detected with alkaline phosphatase-coupled secondary antibodies, nitro blue tetrazolium, and 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate as substrates.  The complete coding region of eIF3e was cloned into the EcoRI-NotI site of pJG4-5 with partial EcoRI digestion to make an in-frame fusion with the transcription activation domain. The complete coding sequence of eIF3b was cloned into the EcoRI site of pEG202 to make an in-frame fusion with LexA. CSN1, CSN7, CSN8, and eIF3c yeast constructs have been described previously (CITATION, CITATION). The plasmids were transformed into yeast EGY48. Selection for interaction was as described (CITATION). β-Galactosidase quantitation was done as described (CITATION).  Total homogenates were prepared as described above. The homogenate was spun in a microcentrifuge for 30 min at 22,000 × g at 4 °C, and the supernatant was filtered through a 0.45-μm filter (Sartorius AG, Goettingen, Germany). Approximately 100 μg of total soluble protein was fractionated at 4 °C through a Superose 6 HR column (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech), with PBS (137 mm NaCl, 2.7 mm KCl, 4.3 mm Na2HPO4, 1.4 mm KH2PO4) containing 5 mm MgCl2 and 10% glycerol, at a flow rate of 0.3 ml/min. Fractions of 0.5 ml each were collected and concentrated by Strata Clean Resin Beads (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). The protein standards for the gel fractionation were as follows: thyroglobulin (669 kDa), apoferritin (443 kDa), catalase (232 kDa), aldolase (158 kDa), and bovine serum albumin (66 kDa).  Total plant extract was cleared of aggregates by centrifugation for 30 min at 4 °C at 22,000 × g. 100 μg of total protein was incubated with antibodies in PBS buffer and 1% Tween for 4 h at 4 °C. Following incubation on an Orbiton rotator (Boekel Industries Inc.), the samples were centrifuged for 15 min at 22,000 × g,and the supernatant was transferred to new tubes containing 20 μl of protein A-agarose beads (Sigma). The tubes were incubated for an additional hour at 4 °C. The tubes were spun at 22,000 ×g for 1 min, and protein A beads were washed 5 times with 1 ml of RIPA buffer (150 mm NaCl, 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 1% Nonidet P-40, 0.5% deoxycholic acid, 0.1% SDS). Proteins were eluted by boiling for 5 min in SDS sample buffer, separated by SDS-PAGE, and blotted for antibody detection.  For the pull-down assay with CSN7, constant amounts (140 μg) of total soluble proteins from E. coli expressing GST-eIF3e were incubated for 1 h at room temperature in PBS buffer containing 1% Triton X-100, with increasing amounts of total soluble proteins fromE. coli expressing either His6-CSN7 or control empty pET28a vector (4 μg/μl each). Following incubation on a rotator, the tubes were centrifuged for 15 min at 22,000 ×g, and the supernatant was transferred to new tubes containing 20 μl of Ni-NTA-agarose (Qiagen, Germany). The tubes were incubated for an additional hour. The tubes were spun at 22,000 ×g for 1 min. As the Ni-NTA agarose absorbed many nonspecific proteins, the Ni-NTA beads were washed 4 times with PBS containing 1% Triton X-100 and once with buffer containing 8 m urea, 0.1m sodium phosphate, and 0.01 m Tris-HCl, pH 8.0. For pull-down assay with eIF3c, constant amounts of total soluble protein (16 μg) from E. coli expressing His6-eIF3c were incubated for 1 h at room temperature in PBS buffer containing 1% Triton X-100 and 5 μg of bovine serum albumin, with increasing amounts of total soluble proteins fromE. coli expressing either GST-eIF3e or control empty pEGX-3C vector (1 μg/μl each). Following incubation and centrifugation as above, the supernatant was transferred to new tubes containing 20 μl of 50% glutathione-Sepharose 4B beads (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) for additional hour. The tubes were spun at 22,000 × g for 1 min and washed 5 times with 1% Triton X-100 in PBS. Proteins were eluted from both Ni-NTA and glutathione beads by boiling for 5 min in SDS sample buffer, run on an SDS-PAGE gel, and blotted for antibody detection.  The procedure for protoplast isolation and immunofluorescence assay was similar to a previously published procedure (CITATION). Root or leaf protoplasts were isolated from 8-day-old wild type or β-glucuronidase-transgenic seedlings. After fixation to microscope slides, affinity-purified primary antibodies against eIF3e, eIF3b, or CSN7 (FUS5) (CITATION) were applied at a dilution of 1:100. The anti-β-glucuronidase antibody (Molecular Probes) was used at 1:500 dilution. The secondary antibody was a goat anti-rabbit immunoglobulin antibody conjugated with fluorescein, which was used at a 1:200 dilution. Protoplasts were mounted with SlowFade anti-fade reagent (Molecular Probes) containing 1 μg/ml of 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI).  For the transient assay, GFP fusion proteins were expressed from the GFP cloning vector pAVA319 (CITATION) in onion epidermal cells by using particle bombardment. The relative nuclear and cytoplasmic localization was determined by quantitative fluorescence measurement (CITATION). The location of the nucleus was determined under bright-field illumination. At least 15 cells were analyzed for each GFP fusion protein. 
