!~ABS~! Stomatal opening, which controls gas exchanges between plants and the atmosphere, results from an increase in turgor of the two guard cells that surround the pore of the stoma. KAT1 was the only inward K+ channel shown to be expressed in Arabidopsis guard cells, where it was proposed to mediate a K+ influx that enables stomatal opening. We report that another Arabidopsis K+channel, KAT2, is expressed in guard cells. More than KAT1, KAT2 displays functional features resembling those of native inward K+ channels in guard cells. Coexpression inXenopus oocytes and two-hybrid experiments indicated that KAT1 and KAT2 can form heteromultimeric channels. The data indicate that KAT2 plays a crucial role in the stomatal opening machinery. 
!~RES~! A partial KAT2cDNA sequence has been reported (GenBankTM/EBI accession number U25694) (CITATION). A complete KAT2 cDNA (GenBankTM/EBI accession number AJ288900) was isolated by 5′-RACE, and the promoter region was isolated by PCR walking. The sequence of a bacterial artificial chromosome containing theKAT2 gene then became available (BAC T9A21; GenBankTM/EBI accession number AL021713). Comparison of the PCR-amplified fragments (KAT2 cDNA and promoter) with that of this bacterial artificial chromosome indicated that the PCR steps had introduced no mutation.  Sequence analysis of the deduced KAT2 polypeptide identified the three domains exhibited by all plant Shaker-like channels (see “Discussion”) cloned up to now (Fig.1 A): from the N to C terminus, (i) the hydrophobic core with the typical six transmembrane segments (S1–S6) and the pore-forming domain (called the P domain, between S5 and S6), (ii) the putative cyclic nucleotide-binding domain, and (iii) the so-called KHA domain, rich in hydrophobic and acidic residues and thought to play a role in channel tetramerization (CITATION) and/or channel clustering in the membrane (CITATION). Within theArabidopsis Shaker-like family, the strongest similarities are found to KAT1. The similarities of KAT2 to KAT1 are detected all along the polypeptide (∼85% identity from the first residue to the end of the putative cyclic nucleotide-binding domain; ∼65% identity in the KHA domain), except in the region lying between the putative cyclic nucleotide-binding domain and the KHA domain (residues 509–610 in KAT1 and residues 520–639 in KAT2) (Fig. 1 A). The P domain of KAT2 differs from that of KAT1 by a single residue (Fig. 1 B), and the S4 segments (with a role in voltage sensing) are identical.  Comparison of the 5′-untranslated region sequence with the sequence of the genomic clone (Fig. 1 C and BAC T9A21, respectively) revealed a typical TATA box ∼40 base pairs upstream from the first nucleotide of the KAT2 cDNA we have cloned, supporting the hypothesis that this cDNA could be full-length. The KAT2 5′-untranslated region is unusually long (at least 455 base pairs) compared with otherArabidopsis genes (CITATION). Furthermore, it contains four ATG codons defining four small upstream open reading frames (open reading frames upstream from the main one). Such features strongly suggest a role of the transcript leader in regulation of expression (CITATION).  Northern blot experiments detectedKAT2 mRNA in aerial organs and not in roots (Fig.2 A). Reverse transcription-PCR experiments failed to detect KAT2 transcripts in roots (data not shown), indicating that expression of KAT2 is restricted to aerial organs. Localization of expression was further investigated using transgenic plants carrying the Escherichia coliβ-glucuronidase gene (GUS) under the control of theKAT2 promoter region (1.8 kilobases). Reporter gene activity was analyzed on the F1 and F2 progeny of 10 independent transgenic plants. GUS activity was never detected in roots. In developing leaves, GUS staining was present in all cells (Fig. 2 B). In mature leaves, the activity was mainly detected in guard cells and in minor veins (Fig. 2, C and D). Mature leaf cross-sections revealed that GUS staining in minor veins was present in phloem and not in xylem parenchyma (Fig. 2 E). In hypocotyls, stems (Fig. 2 F), and petioles, GUS activity was present only in guard cells. In parallel experiments on transgenicArabidopsis expressing GUS under the control of the KAT1 promoter region (stock CS3763,Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center), stem guard cells never displayed GUS staining (data not shown), in accordance with the lack of expression of the reporter gene in these cells (CITATION). The data suggest that guard cells in the stem express KAT2, but not KAT1, whereas guard cells in petioles and leaves express both channels.  [[FIGURE]] InXenopus oocytes injected with the pCi-KAT2 plasmid, hyperpolarization of the membrane beyond −100 mV elicited an inward current (Fig. 3) that was not recorded in control oocytes injected with empty pCi (data not shown). The exogenous macroscopic current displayed slow activation and deactivation kinetics (Fig. 3 A) with voltage-dependent time constants (Table I). No inactivation could be seen even during hyperpolarizing pulses lasting 50 s (data not shown). The steady-state current-voltage plots (Fig. 3 B) show a strong inward rectification with a threshold potential of about −100 mV irrespective of external K+ concentration. The reversal potential of the KAT2 current was determined at different external K+ concentrations. Following a change in the external K+ concentration from 10 to 100 mm, the reversal potential shifted by 57 ± 2 mV (n = 5), remaining close to the K+ equilibrium potential (Fig.3 B, inset), thus indicating that the inward current mediated by KAT2 was mainly carried by K+ ions. Determination of reversal potential under pseudo bi-ionic conditions (data not shown) allowed the determination of relative permeability ratios. KAT2 displays the following permeability sequence (Eisenman's series IV): K+ > Rb+ >≫ Na+ ≈ Li+ (Table I).  [[FIGURE]] Under our experimental conditions (expression level, size of patch), macroscopic KAT2 currents mimicking whole-oocyte currents could be recorded in the cell-attached patch-clamp configuration (Fig.3 C, trace c.a.). Upon patch excision, however, the KAT2 current decreased rapidly (inside-out configuration) (Fig.3 C, traces i.o.1 and i.o.2). In this configuration, unitary currents could be resolved, which are shown in Fig. 3 D. KAT2 rundown could be overcome and the initial current partly restored by cramming the patch back into the oocyte (Fig. 3 C, trace p.c.). This suggested that KAT2 required intracellular factors, available in the oocyte cytoplasm, to open. From the single-channel recordings obtained in the inside-out configuration at different potentials, we were able to determine the single-channel slope conductance of KAT2: 6.7 picosiemens in symmetrical 100 mm K+ solution (Fig.3 D), a value quite similar to that reported for KAT1 (CITATION,CITATION).  As native guard cell inwardly rectifying K+ channels are known to be stimulated upon external acidification (CITATION, CITATION), we compared the sensitivity of KAT1 and KAT2 to external pH in parallel experiments carried out on oocytes from the same batch (Fig.4). The activation potential of KAT2 was shifted positively when the pH was decreased from 7.5 to 6.0 (Fig.4 B), leading to an increase in current amplitude at a given potential. Analyses of the correspondingG/G max versus potential curves (data not shown) showed that the G maxvalue was not changed and yielded the gating parameters (Table I). Although the apparent gating charge (z g) was not changed, the half-activation potential (E a 50) was indeed shifted by approximately +15 mV when the pH was decreased from 7.5 to 6.0. By contrast, and as previously reported (CITATION), KAT1 gating parameters were left unchanged by the pH drop (Fig. 4 A), an increase in macroscopic conductance (G max) being responsible for the increase in current (Table I).  [[FIGURE]] Block by external Cs+ is a classical feature of plant and animal K+ channels that is believed to involve the binding of Cs+ to some site within the pore. Pore penetration by Cs+ often results in some voltage dependence of the K+ channel block (CITATION). As previously reported (CITATION, CITATION), addition of 0.5 mm Cs+ to the external medium resulted in a voltage-dependent block of the KAT1 current (Table I). In parallel experiments on the same batch of oocytes, addition of Cs+ resulted in a voltage-independent block of KAT2 inward currents (Fig. 5,A and B; and Table I). The inhibition constant of this block, estimated from the data shown in Fig. 5 B, is 2.5 mm. It is worth noting that the sequences of the pore domains of KAT1 and KAT2 differ by a single amino acid, Phe266 in KAT1 corresponding to Leu in KAT2 (Fig.1 B). In this context, a KAT1-F266L mutant channel (a gift from R. Hedrich, University of Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany), i.e. a KAT1 mutant with the pore sequence of KAT2, was studied. The Cs+ sensitivity of the mutant channel is clearly voltage-dependent and reminiscent of that of KAT1 (Fig. 5 C). Therefore, the pore domain sequence is not the only determinant of KAT1 and KAT2 sensitivity to Cs+. Further pharmacological characterization revealed that KAT2 has a lower sensitivity to external Ba2+than KAT1 and a sensitivity to external tetraethylammonium similar to that of KAT1 (Table I).  [[FIGURE]] Single-point mutations in the KAT1 P domain have been recently reported to yield dominant-negative mutants (CITATION). We introduced a mutation in KAT1 (W253G) that produced electrically silent channels in Xenopus oocytes. Coexpression of this mutant with the wild-type KAT1 channel inXenopus oocytes resulted in a lower inward current than did the expression of the wild-type channel alone (Fig.6 A). Such an effect indicates that the KAT1-W253G mutant has a dominant-negative capability,i.e. that it can interact with the wild-type polypeptide, leading to formation of channels that are not functional or not targeted to the membrane. Interestingly, coexpression of the KAT1-W253G mutant with KAT2 decreased the inward current as well (Fig.6 A), providing evidence that the polypeptides encoded byKAT1 and KAT2 can interact and form heterotetrameric channels.  [[FIGURE]] Plant K+ channels have been shown to form tetramers through interactions involving the cytoplasmic C-terminal domain (CITATION). We therefore investigated the possibility of interactions between the C-terminal domains of KAT1 and KAT2 using the two-hybrid system in yeast (CITATION) and obtained positive results (Fig. 6 B).  Coexpression of the wild-type KAT1 and KAT2 polypeptides in oocytes resulted in an inward current that activated at a threshold potential between those of KAT1 and KAT2. We failed to find any typical feature of this current (i.e. a feature that would not be reminiscent of KAT1 or KAT2 properties). Interestingly, however, the current monitored in control oocytes injected with 10 ng of either KAT1 or KAT2 plasmid was significantly smaller than that monitored in oocytes coinjected with 5 ng of each plasmid, suggesting some synergy. The physiological significance of this effect cannot be assessed at the present time. However, in the animal field, similar observations due to interaction between channel subunits have been shown to play a rolein situ in the organism (CITATION, CITATION). 
!~MM~! The 5′-region of KAT2cDNA (see Fig. 1 C; GenBankTM/EBI accession number AJ288900) was determined by RACE-PCR on poly(A)+ mRNA isolated from 14-day-old plantlet leaves. Amplified fragments corresponding to the 5′-end ofKAT2 cDNA were cloned and sequenced. The full-length KAT2 open reading frame was then isolated by reverse transcription-PCR on poly(A)+ mRNA using a primer hybridizing at the ATG codon and containing a SpeI site (5′-ACTAGTATGTTGAAGAGAAAGCACCTCAACAC-3′) and a reverse primer hybridizing at the stop codon and containing a NotI site (5′-GCGGCCGCTTAAGAGTTTTCATTGATGAGAATATACAAATG-3′). The amplified fragment (2.1 kilobases) was cloned at the EcoRV site of pBluescript and sequenced.  [[FIGURE]] Plants were grown in vitro in magenta boxes as described previously (CITATION). Total RNA extraction and Northern blotting were performed as described previously (CITATION). Specific probes corresponding to KAT1 and KAT2 and used in Northern blot experiments were generated by PCR (cDNA fragments encoding sequences 511–587 and 524–608 of KAT1 and KAT2, respectively). Reverse transcription and PCR were performed with Superscript II (Life Technologies, Inc.) and Extra-Pol I (Eurobio), respectively, following the manufacturers' recommendations.  The KAT2promoter region was isolated from genomic DNA (ecotype Columbia) by PCR walking (CITATION) with a reverse primer introducing a unique NcoI site just upstream from the ATG codon (5′-CCATGGGGTTAGTTATAAATATAGTGATGAAACTTGTG-3′). A 1.8-kilobase fragment was isolated, cloned into pBluescript, and sequenced. The construct was digested by BamHI andNcoI and introduced into pBI320.X (from Dr. R. Derose; this plasmid bears a unique NcoI site at the initiation codon of the promoterless GUS 3′-nopaline synthase gene), leading to a translational fusion between the KAT2 promoter region and the GUS coding sequence. This construct was digested byBamHI and SacI and introduced into the pMOG402 binary vector (from Dr. H. Hoekema). The resulting plasmid was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens MP90 (CITATION).Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) was transformed with agrobacteria using the floral dip method (CITATION). Selection of T1 seedlings was performed in vitro on the half-strength medium described by Murashige and Skoog (CITATION) supplemented with 1% sucrose, 0.7% agar, and 50 μg·ml− 1 kanamycin under the following conditions: 21/18 °C day/night temperature, 16-h photoperiod, and 150 microeinsteins·m− 2·s− 1. For GUS assay, plants were either grown in vitro on the same medium and under the same conditions as described above or grown in a greenhouse on attapulgite-peat compost (CITATION). GUS histochemical staining was performed as described previously (CITATION). Cross-sections of GUS-stained material were prepared on hydroxyethyl methacrylate (Technovit 7100, Heraus-Kulzer GmBH, Wehrheim, Germany)-embedded tissues with an Amersham Pharmacia Biotech microtome and were counterstained in purple by periodic acid-Schiff staining.   KAT1 and KAT2 cDNAs were introduced into the pCi plasmid (Promega) under the control of the cytomegalovirus promoter. The resulting plasmids, pCi-KAT1 and pCi-KAT2, were injected into Xenopus oocytes (purchased from Centre de Recherches de Biochimie Macromoléculaire, CNRS, Montpellier, France) using a 10–15-μm tip diameter micropipette and a pneumatic injector (10 nl of 1 μg·μl− 1plasmid solution/oocyte). Control oocytes were injected with 10 nl of empty plasmid solution.  Whole-cell currents were recorded as described previously (CITATION) using the two-electrode voltage-clamp technique, 3–7 days after injection, on oocytes continuously perfused with bath solution (see figure legends). Quantitative analyses of macroscopic current that yielded the gating parameters given in Table I were performed as described previously (CITATION).  [[TABLE]] Patch-clamp experiments were performed on devitellinized oocytes as described previously (CITATION). Voltage-pulse protocol application, data acquisition, and data analyses were performed using pClamp (Axon Instruments, Inc., Foster City, CA), Winascd (Dr. G. Droogmans, University of Leuven, Leuven, Belgium), and Sigmaplot (Jandel Scientific, Erkrath, Germany) software.  Plasmid vectors pGBT9 (CITATION) and pACTII (kindly provided by S. Elledge, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX) were used for the generation of fusion proteins with the DNA-binding domain and the activator domain of Gal4, respectively. In-frame fusions were made with the C-terminal cytoplasmic regions from KAT1 and KAT2. For KAT1, a NcoI site was created at the end of the S6 segment coding sequence by site-directed mutagenesis (CITATION), the GTCGTTCATTGGACT sequence from KAT1 being replaced by GTCGTCCATGGGACT. The KAT2 insert was obtained by digestion with BsrI and blunt-ending with mung bean nuclease, thus allowing the polypeptide sequence to be synthesized from Arg316. Yeast cell transformations and the assay for reporter gene expression (usingo-nitrophenyl-β-d-galactopyranoside as substrate) were performed as described previously (CITATION, CITATION). 
