!~ABS~! The signaling pathways by which the phytochrome (phy) family of photoreceptors transmits sensory information to light-regulated genes remain to be fully defined. Evidence for a relatively direct pathway has been provided by the binding of one member of the family, phyB, to a promoter-element-bound, basic helix–loop–helix protein, PIF3, specifically upon light-induced conversion of the photoreceptor molecule to its biologically active conformer (Pfr). Here, we show that phyA also binds selectively and reversibly to PIF3 upon photoconversion to Pfr, but that the apparent affinity of PIF3 for phyA is 10-fold lower than for phyB. This result is consistent with previous in vivo data from PIF3-deficient Arabidopsis, indicating that PIF3 has a major role in phyB signaling, but a more minor role in phyA signaling. We also show that phyB binds stoichiometrically to PIF3 at an equimolar ratio, suggesting that the resultant complex is the unit active in transcriptional regulation at target promoters. Deletion mapping suggests that a 37-aa segment present at the N terminus of phyB, but absent from phyA, contributes strongly to the high binding affinity of phyB for PIF3. Conversely, deletion mapping and point mutation analysis of PIF3 for determinants involved in recognition of phyB indicates that the PAS domain of PIF3 is a major contributor to this interaction, but that a second determinant in the C-terminal domain is also necessary.
!~RES~! In previous studies, we used unlabeled recombinant proteins produced in E. coli and immobilized on beads as bait in in vitro binding assays involving full-length phyB as the prey (CITATION). Here, to monitor the binding reaction quantitatively, we have implemented a pull-down assay procedure in which both bait and prey proteins were synthesized and radioactively labeled by in vitro transcription and translation, and the absolute molar quantities of individual proteins in different fractions were determined by PhosphorImager analysis. In initial studies using this procedure, we found that full-length phyB bound strongly and specifically to PIF3 in the Pfr form as expected (CITATION), with up to 35% of the input phyB being bound (Fig. FIG-REF). PhyA also bound selectively to PIF3 in the Pfr form, but the level of phyA binding was substantially lower than for phyB (Fig. FIG-REF).  [[FIGURE]] To compare the relative binding efficiencies of phyA and phyB for PIF3 more systematically, increasing amounts of each photoreceptor were added in the Pfr form as prey to a constant amount of bead-immobilized PIF3 bait. The molar ratio of bound phyA or phyB to immobilized PIF3 was then plotted as a function of input photoreceptor level (Fig. FIG-REF). The data indicate that phyB binds with up to 10-fold higher apparent affinity to PIF3 than does phyA.  [[FIGURE]] The phyB binding curve plateaued at 7.5 fmol of input phyB (Fig. FIG-REFC), suggesting that the binding reaction was saturated. After correction for methionine content, the molar ratio of bound phyB to immobilized PIF3 was found to be 1:1 at saturation (Fig. FIG-REFC). The weaker interaction of phyA with PIF3 precluded testing for saturation binding with the present protocol. The Arabidopsis phyB molecule has a 37-aa residue extension at its N terminus compared with phyA (CITATION). To determine whether this protein segment might account for the higher apparent binding affinity of phyB than of phyA for PIF3, we compared the binding activity of a deletion derivative of phyB lacking these 37 residues (phyB-N37) with that of full-length phyA (Fig. FIG-REFA). The data show that phyB-N37 binds selectively in its Pfr form to PIF3, but that the binding activity is strongly reduced relative to the full-length phyB, to a level about 2-fold greater than phyA (Fig. FIG-REF B and C). To more systematically investigate molecular determinants within phyB necessary for interaction with PIF3, we tested a series of deletion mutant derivatives of the photoreceptor for binding activity (Fig. FIG-REFA). The results show that removal of only 30 amino acids from the C terminus of phyB strongly reduces binding activity, similar to that caused by removal of the N-terminal 37 residues. As in the case of phyB-N37, the C-1181 mutant retains selective recognition of PIF3 in the Pfr form (Fig. FIG-REF B and C). Further removal of another 53 and 30 amino acids from either N or C termini, respectively, essentially eliminated the binding activity (Fig. FIG-REF B and C). Interestingly, as previously reported (CITATION), the separate C-terminal (CT, 645-1,211) and N-terminal (NT, 1–644) domains of phyB, each retained moderate binding activity, with the N-terminal domain showing selectiveness for PIF3 in the Pfr form (Fig. FIG-REF B and C).  [[FIGURE]] To identify regions within PIF3 necessary for interaction with phyB, we tested the binding activities of a series of deletion mutant derivatives using bead-immobilized, full-length phyB as bait (Fig. FIG-REFA). Both the N-63 and N-120 deletion mutants showed similar, or somewhat higher, binding activities compared with that of full-length PIF3, with retention of strong selectivity for the Pfr form of phyB (Fig. FIG-REF B and C). However, the N-193 construct with the entire PAS domain deleted lost its ability to interact with phyB completely. To further assess the importance of this domain, we generated a clone containing a missense mutation by substituting a Val for the conserved Gly at position 165 in the N-120 construct. We also expressed the 74-aa PAS domain alone to test whether it is sufficient for binding. The data show that the single amino acid substitution caused a strong, albeit incomplete, loss of binding activity by the N-120* construct, confirming the importance of the PAS domain for phyB interaction. However, the PAS domain alone did not interact with phyB-GAD. Deletion from the C terminus of PIF3 resulted in a progressive affinity loss, coupled with a higher nonselective binding between the two conformers of phyB (C-484, C-442). The C-402 deletion mutant that ends immediately downstream of the bHLH motif, as well as all constructs that terminated downstream of the PAS domain, or upstream of the bHLH domain showed no binding activity (Fig. FIG-REF).  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The various T7-promoter driven templates for in vitro transcription and translation were constructed as follows. Gal4 activation domain (GAD), GAD-PIF3, FL-phyB, phyB N-terminal domain (amino acids 1–644), and phyB C-terminal domain (residues 645–1,211) were from Ni et al. (CITATION). The template for the phyB-GAD bait protein with GAD fused to the C terminus of phyB was constructed by PCR amplification of both the full-length PHYB coding sequence (CITATION) and the GAD sequence from the vector pGAD424 (CLONTECH) and cloning into the pET-17b vector (Novagen) by three-way ligation. Full-length PIF3 (CITATION) and its deletion mutants were also amplified by PCR and cloned into the pRSETB vector (Invitrogen). PhyB deletion derivatives were amplified from a pET-3c vector (CITATION) and cloned into pET-17b. The full-length phyA coding sequence with a T7 promoter at its 5′ terminus was cloned into pBluescript KS+. Gly165 of the PIF3 N-120 deletion was converted to Val by using a Quick Change Site-Directed Mutagenesis Kit from Stratagene. All bait and prey polypeptides were synthesized by using the T'n'T in vitro transcription-translation system from Promega with 35S-Met as a radioactive label according to the manufacturer's instructions. Each 50-μl T'n'T reaction mix contained 2 μg template DNA and 20 pmol (20 μCi) of labeled 35S-Met. All synthesis reactions were carried out for 1.5 h at 30°C. Phycocyanobilin chromophore, prepared as in Scheer (CITATION), was added to all phytochrome T'n'T products to a final concentration of 10 μM, and the mixture was incubated at 4°C in darkness for 1 h. Bait proteins, GAD, GAD-PIF3, and phyB-GAD synthesized in separate T'n'T reactions were attached to agarose beads by addition of 1 μg monoclonal antibody against GAD and 20 μl protein-A agarose beads (Santa Cruz Biotechnology). The mixture was incubated at 4°C for 1 h in PBS binding buffer that contained 137 mM NaCl, 2.7 mM KCl, 4.3 mM Na2HPO4, 1.4 mM KH2PO4, 0.1% BSA, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, pH 7.3, and complete protease inhibitor mixture (Roche Molecular Biochemicals). Bead bound proteins were washed three times with 1.0 ml of PBS binding buffer without BSA, recovered by centrifugation at 5,000 × g for 5 min at 4°C, and resuspended in 100 μl of PBS buffer. These preparations were generally used for five separate binding reactions in equal aliquots. Upon completion of prey protein synthesis, the reactions were precleared by adding 25 μl of protein A/G plus agarose beads to each 50-μl T'n'T reaction. The mixture was incubated in darkness at 4°C for 1 h after addition of 75-μl 2× PBS binding buffer containing complete protease inhibitor mixture. Supernatants containing the labeled prey protein were recovered by centrifugation at 6,000 × g for 5 min at 4°C and used for binding reactions. Twenty microliters of agarose beads bearing approximately 2.5 fmol of bait protein were mixed with 30 μl of various precleared prey-protein preparations (at roughly equimolar ratio) for binding studies that were carried out in a 50-μl reaction, unless otherwise indicated. For all R lanes, the reaction mixture received 10-min R illumination on ice by using an LED light source (QBEAM 2200) with 343 μmol m−2 s−1 at 664 nm (Quantum Devices, Madison, WI). For all R/FR lanes, the mixture received 1-min FR immediately after the R treatment by using the same LED light source with 353 μmol m−2 s−1 at 748 nm. All binding reactions were then incubated in darkness for 2 h at 4°C. The beads containing bait and bound prey molecules were then pelleted at 5,000 × g for 5 min, and washed with 2× 500 μl of PBS binding buffer without BSA before being solubilized in SDS sample buffer at 95°C for 5 min and analyzed by 10% SDS/PAGE. A 15% gel was used for the PIF3 PAS domain fragment. The gel was then fixed, dried, and exposed overnight in a phosphorimager cassette. The radioactivity in each protein band was quantified by using a PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics). To determine the absolute amounts of the labeled proteins in the different bands, we established a standard curve for 35S-Met using the PhosphorImager. To minimize the variation between R and R/FR treatments because of differences in bait protein recovery, we divided the value for the bait from the R lane by that of the R/FR lane, and used this factor to correct the radioactivity of the bound prey fraction in the corresponding R/FR lane. On average, 70% or more of the bait protein was recovered in the pellet fraction.
