!~ABS~! The N‐terminal protein processing pathway is an essential mechanism found in all organisms. However, it is widely believed that deformylase, a key enzyme involved in this process in bacteria, does not exist in eukaryotes, thus making it a target for antibacterial agents such as actinonin. In an attempt to define this process in higher eukaryotes we have used Arabidopsis thaliana as a model organism. Two deformylase cDNAs, the first identified in any eukaryotic system, and six distinct methionine aminopeptidase cDNAs were cloned. The corresponding proteins were characterized in vivo and in vitro. Methionine aminopeptidases were found in the cytoplasm and in the organelles, while deformylases were localized in the organelles only. Our work shows that higher plants have a much more complex machinery for methionine removal than previously suspected. We were also able to identify deformylase homologues from several animals and clone the corresponding cDNA from human cells. Our data provide the first evidence that lower and higher eukaryotes, as well as bacteria, share a similar N‐terminal protein processing machinery, indicating universality of this system.
!~RES~! Enzymes displaying MAP activity are classified into two groups, MAP1 and MAP2. Proteins of the MAP1 group were first identified in eubacteria. Yeast and mammalian cells also possess a MAP1; both show the same catalytic core as bacterial MAP1 and have N‐terminal pre‐sequences including two conserved zinc fingers (CITATION). Eukaryotic MAP2 enzymes also have N‐terminal extensions compared with those found in Archaea. Both MAP1 and MAP2 are located in the cytoplasm of eukaryotes. Nevertheless, it has been suggested that the N‐terminal pre‐sequences favour the interaction of the catalytic core with particular targets (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Although the sequence similarity between the two MAP types is very low, the 3D structures of the catalytic core are homologous (CITATION; CITATION). Bacterial PDF proteins are metalloproteases of ∼20 kDa with an unusual metal binding site (for a recent review on PDF see CITATION). There are two sub‐classes of PDF, PDF1 and PDF2, both containing two signature sequences and the HEXXH motif of the ‘zinc’ metalloproteases superfamily (CITATION). Using BLAST analysis (CITATION), we searched the genome sequence of A.thaliana for sequences similar to PDF and/or MAP genes. Because of the variability of the pre‐sequences, we chose to restrict our primary analysis to the catalytic domains of the two enzymes. Consequently, the sequences of Escherichia coli MAP1 and PDF1, Pyrococcus furiosus MAP2 and Bacillus stearothermophilus PDF2 were used as primary input inquiries. Four MAP1 sequences (named MAP1A, 1B, 1C and 1D, respectively), one MAP2 sequence (MAP2A) and one PDF1 sequence (PDF1A) were retrieved (Table I). This result was unexpected since PDF‐like sequences have only previously been found in prokaryotic genomes. Moreover, such a large number of MAP genes was surprising in an organism believed to have a low gene redundancy. In comparison, similar analysis with the complete genome of C.elegans, which has approximately the same size and gene number as A.thaliana, and with S.cerevisiae revealed no PDF and only one MAP1 and one MAP2 sequence. [[TABLE]] Using rapid analysis of cDNA ends (RACE), we cloned the corresponding full‐length cDNAs (see data in Table I). The catalytic cores of the MAP1 are very similar (>40–50% amino acid sequence identity) to the bacterial counterparts (FIG-REF). MAP1A closely resembles the yeast enzyme whereas MAP1B, MAP1C and MAP1D displayed unique N‐terminal pre‐sequences but were very similar to each other around amino acid positions 90–150 (FIG-REF). The homology extended through the catalytic domain (pink in FIG-REF, region 150–430). Most interestingly, these three MAP1s lack the zinc finger of MAP1A. Deletion of this N‐terminal pre‐sequence in yeast MAP1 yielded an enzyme with full MAP activity in vitro but unable to complement a map‐conditional mutant in vivo (CITATION). Finally, PDF1A also carried an 80–90 residue N‐terminal extension not found in bacterial PDF (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] The corresponding genes were mapped in the A.thaliana genome (Table I). Genome sequence analysis showed that (i) there is a short, partial and non‐functional duplication of an internal sequence of MAP1A on chromosome 4 and (ii) the MAP2 gene is duplicated, with one copy on chromosome 2 (MAP2A) and another on chromosome 3 (MAP2B). The cDNA of MAP2B was cloned. The two MAP2 cDNAs encode near‐identical proteins (FIG-REF). The seven cloned cDNA sequences (six MAP and one PDF1A) were used to screen the many plant genomic and expressed sequence tags (EST) sequences available at http://www.arabidopsis.org/cgi‐bin/blast/TAIRblast.pl. Several partial sequences encoding homologues of MAP1A and MAP2 were identified in rice, alfalfa, soybean, tomato, sorghum, corn and pine (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). The plant MAP1As closely resemble their animal and fungal counterparts, with similar N‐terminal pre‐sequences and conservation of the histidines and cysteines of the zinc finger motif. Likewise, MAP2 from plants is similar to enzymes in the other kingdoms (FIG-REF). Homologues of MAP1B, 1C and 1D were found in the same plants (see FIG-REF). Interestingly, at least three distinct MAP1 sequences related to A.thaliana MAP 1B, 1C and 1D were identified in rice (Oryza sativa) (FIG-REF). This suggests that the MAP sequence set obtained from A.thaliana is representative of the general situation in other plants, both dicots and monocots. A similar analysis was performed with the sequence of A.thaliana PDF1A. Very similar sequences (>70%) were found in tomato, rice, poplar and corn (FIG-REF). The full‐length PDF1A from tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) was cloned by construction of an L.esculentum RACE library (Table I). The catalytic domain of this complete PDF1A sequence is 70% identical to A.thaliana PDF1A, and the N‐terminal extensions are similar (FIG-REF). Two divergent, partial PDF1 sequences (which we called PDF1B) were found in a rice genomic fragment and in a tomato EST. These PDF1B sequences exhibited only ∼30–35% identity with the catalytic domain of PDF1A and do not display the long L2 insertion and the V1 variable loop found in PDF1A. Thus, both the rice (i.e. a monocot) and tomato (i.e. a dicot) genomes include two distinct PDFs, PDF1A and PDF1B. We were able to isolate the full‐length cDNA encoding tomato PDF1B by screening our RACE tomato library. The resulting sequence information was used to identify and clone the A.thaliana PDF1B, which, at the time of our initial analyses, had not yet been covered in the Arabidopsis genome database. The full‐length amino acid sequence of A.thaliana PDF1B is indeed similar to L.esculentum PDF1B (>75%; FIG-REF). Our data above suggested the existence of unknown mRNAs encoding MAP (the forms MAP1B, 1C and 1D) and PDF (PDF1A and PDF1B) homologues in plants. Nevertheless, we had no evidence that these transcripts encoded functional proteins with MAP or PDF activity. As plant MAP1 and PDF resembled their eubacterial counterparts, we tested whether they complement map (the gene for MAP) or def (the gene for PDF) defects in E.coli. A def‐conditional strain was already available (PAL421Tr‐pMAKdef) and we constructed a similar map‐conditional strain (PAL314Tr‐pMap). The three MAP1 cDNAs isolated from A.thaliana under the control of the lac promoter indeed complemented the map defect (data not shown). Expression of PDF1A in strain PAL421Tr did not allow bacterial growth at a non‐permissive temperature. To check the production of the protein, the protein fused to the His6 tag was expressed in E.coli. This plasmid initially failed to complement the thermosensitivity of PAL421Tr. Western blot analysis with anti‐His6 tag antibodies indicated that PDF1A was produced but remained in the insoluble fraction, as inclusion bodies (FIG-REF). Indeed, the N‐terminal domain of the protein is hydrophobic. Therefore, we made a construct, pQdefAtΔ, encoding only the catalytic domain (i.e. residues 79–279). The protein produced was soluble (FIG-REF and FIG-REF) and the plasmid complemented the def‐conditional strain (Table II). A crude extract of the strain producing the catalytic domain of PDF1A was assayed for N‐formyl group cleavage using two synthetic peptides, Fo‐Met‐Ala and Fo‐Met‐Ala‐Ser. Its activity was >3000‐fold higher than the control extract, and the addition of nickel improved the stability and linearity of the enzyme kinetics (data not shown). These characteristics are consistent with those of bacterial PDF (CITATION) and show that PDF1A has peptide deformylase activity. Finally, sequences encoding both full‐length protein and the truncated catalytic domain of PDF1B were fused to the His6 tag. Both constructs complemented the def‐conditional strain PAL421Tr (Table II). A crude protein extract containing the catalytic domain showed a strong nickel‐dependent stimulation of deformylation activity with a synthetic N‐formylated peptide compared with the control (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] Altogether, the above data demonstrated that the various cloned cDNAs expressed distinct proteins displaying either MAP or PDF activity similar to those found in bacterial cells. The unexpected occurrence of six MAPs and two PDFs raised the question concerning their relative expression in various tissues from A.thaliana. Poly(A)+ mRNAs were therefore prepared from fruits (2‐week‐old siliques), leaves, flowers and roots. Expression was systematically compared with that of elongation factor 1α, a housekeeping gene. Quantitative reverse transcription PCR (RT–PCR) experiments were performed to confirm the results. The sizes of seven of the eight mRNAs (except PDF1A) studied matched perfectly the length of the cloned cDNA. However, the PDF1A mRNA was 950 ± 50 bp and not 1050 ± 50 bp as expected. Primer extension analysis in 5′ and 3′ directions revealed that the 5′ extremity of the PDF1A cDNA, which was selected as the longest clone (see Materials and methods), was longer than that of the average mRNAs (data not shown). As a consequence, the first AUG codon of the PDF1A mRNAs may thus correspond to the second in‐frame ATG codon of the cloned cDNA. MAP1A, MAP1C, MAP2A, MAP2B and PDF1A mRNAs were all present and with a difference of abundance between 2‐ and 3‐fold in the various tissues (FIG-REF). In contrast, MAP1B, MAP1D and PDF1B mRNAs were strongly induced in green tissues, i.e. leaves and flowers (FIG-REF). Finally, we noted that the amount of MAP2A was very low, <10% of that found for MAP2B. [[FIGURE]] Various prediction software, including chloroP (CITATION), signalP (CITATION), PSORT (CITATION) and Predotar (http://www.inra.fr/Internet/Produits/Predotar/), were used to analyse the function of the N‐terminal domains. The PDF1A, PDF1B, MAP1B, MAP1C and MAP1D pre‐sequences were predicted to contain targeting signals. In particular, they contain the high level of hydroxylated residues that is a feature of plant organellar targeting signals (CITATION). It has been suggested that the N‐terminal extensions of MAP1A and MAP2 are involved in subcellular cytoplasmic targeting (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine the subcellular localization of the various proteins, their N‐terminal extensions, as defined by comparison with the bacterial enzymes (i.e. E.coli MAP1 and PDF1 and P.furiosus MAP2; see FIG-REF and Table III), were fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP). The constructs were expressed transiently in epidermal onion cells after biolistic delivery. Onion cells possess low intrinsic red chlorophyll fluorescence of chloroplasts and have large and regular cells allowing the different compartments to be easily visualized by microscopy (CITATION). GFP fluorescence was monitored by epifluorescence microscopy and confocal laser scanning microscopy. [[TABLE]] Production of the MAP1A–GFP or MAP2–GFP fusions resulted in GFP fluorescence throughout the cytoplasm, a pattern similar to that obtained with GFP alone (FIG-REF). MAP1C–GFP and MAP1D–GFP were localized in both chloroplasts and mitochondria (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). MAP1B–GFP was only found in chloroplasts (FIG-REF). As a control for plastid localization, we used a fusion of GFP to membrane lipid monogalactosyldiacylglycerol (MGDA) synthase from Spinacia oleracea, a nucleus‐encoded protein shown to be located in chloroplasts by immunolocalization methods (CITATION). In the onion cell system, MGDA–GFP fusions were efficiently targeted to plastids (data not shown) and the fluorescence pattern was indistinguishable from that of MAP1B–GFP fusions. This confirms the plastid localization of MAP1B, MAP1C and MAP1D. All three fusions were also found in stromules. Stromules are plastid connections that appeared as GFP‐filled tubules emanating from the plastid surface (FIG-REF). They are known to be abundant in tissues that contain chlorophyll‐free plastids such as onion cells (CITATION). In our experiments, GFP flowed through stromules (FIG-REF), suggesting that MAP1 proteins are translocated between interconnected plastids. These observations are consistent with a system of coordination of plastid activities by inter‐plastid communication (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The PDF1A mRNAs include two putative alternative AUG start codons (see above). This phenomenon can be the basis for routing a protein to distinct cell compartments (CITATION). Three constructions in which the various ATG codons are the first AUG of the transcript were constructed. All three constructs resulted in a mitochondrial localization of GFP (FIG-REF). The mitochondrial localization was confirmed by labelling experiments in the presence of Mitotracker, a specific mitochondrial probe (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). In the case of the construct with the most downstream start codon, which corresponds to the most abundant transcript (see above), many positive cells were observed and the fluorescent signal was stronger. Arabidopsis thaliana PDF1B, like MAP1C and MAP1D, was found in plastids and mitochondria (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). This double localization in the case of PDF1B was further confirmed with a fusion of the pre‐sequence of tomato PDF1B fused to GFP (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] From the above localization data (summarized in Table I), it thus appears that the process of removal of the first methionine occurs not only in the cytoplasm but also in the organelles of plants. In this context, we compared the protein sequences of several organelle gene products with the corresponding DNA genome data. A majority of the proteins indeed lacked the N‐formyl or N‐formylmethionine (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Some organellar membrane proteins apparently retained their N‐formyl (CITATION; CITATION), a situation also observed in eubacteria (CITATION). Analysis of the specificity with which methionine removal occurs in plants fits perfectly with the known selectivity of eubacterial MAP and PDF (CITATION; CITATION). The discovery of a novel pathway dedicated to methionine removal in higher plants raised the question of its existence in other eukaryotes. Interestingly, a gene encoding a PDF homologue was identified in the nuclear genome of Plasmodium falciparum, a eukaryotic protist related to green algae (FIG-REF; see also CITATION). This PDF has an N‐terminal pre‐sequence and is very similar to PDF1B, the ‘plastid’ PDF form (see FIG-REF). Together with our results, this phylogeny strongly suggests that the P.falciparum PDF1B is routed to the apicoplast, the non‐photosynthetic plastid of apicomplexan protists. Taking advantage of our data on MAP, we also found an organellar MAP1 on chromosome 5 of P.falciparum (FIG-REF). In addition, one organellar MAP1B gene on chromosome 2 (contig 16482) and one mitochondrial PDF1A sequence on chromosome 6 (contig 12497) could be identified in the genome of a protist devoid of plastid, the soil amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Very recently, the near complete genome of the fruit fly Drosophila was made available (CITATION). One MAP1A and one MAP2 sequence were retrieved; indeed all eukaryotes have these two genes (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Unexpectedly, a search for MAP1B, MAP1C and MAP1D homologues identified one gene on chromosome 2L (DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank accession Nos AC007451 and AE003628). It is very similar to the three plant organellar MAP1s, including the sequence along the N‐terminal domain (FIG-REF). In addition, it did not contain the Cys‐His zinc finger that characterizes all known cytoplasmic MAP1As. Thus, the fruit fly appears to have an organellar‐targeted MAP and consequently an N‐terminal protein processing pathway in mitochondria. This suggests that the Drosophila genome may also have a gene encoding a PDF with an N‐terminal targeting pre‐sequence. Indeed, two adjacent PDF sequences were identified on chromosome 3R (DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank accession Nos AE003688 and AC007822). The annotated deduced protein (AAF54540), which is derived from the fusion of the two genes, appears however to be incorrectly processed. Re‐analysis of the data using various tools available at http://www.fruitfly.org/seq_tools/splice.html (CITATION) suggested that there are actually two genes encoding two PDFs with different extended N‐terminal pre‐sequences (FIG-REF). In addition, a TATA box and two poly‐adenylation signals were found in between the two genes. The analysis of two ESTs from another insect of the dipter an order, the African malaria mosquito Anopheles gambiae, strengthened this prediction. These ESTs were overlapping, which allowed us to reconstitute one nearly complete cDNA. The deduced protein pre‐sequence (FIG-REF) corresponded to that of one of the two PDF sequences found in the Drosophila genome. The amino acid homology continued upstream of the proposed splicing site within the sequence translated from the putative intron. We concluded that the fly genome encodes two PDF1s, with distinct N‐terminal pre‐sequences. Although this situation appears to be similar to that of higher plants, both fly sequences are most related to the mitochondrial form, i.e. PDF1A. The above data were highly suggestive that a machinery required for N‐terminal methionine removal occurs not only in higher plant organelles but also in the mitochondria of insects. Such a result was completely unexpected and led us to wonder whether mammalian cells also possess such a system. PDF was a better marker for this machinery than MAP, since MAP1 sequences are found in all organisms (FIG-REF). Because PDF is thought to be a good target for new antibiotics (CITATION), and given that substantial human genome sequence is now available, we looked for PDF homologues in human. Using PDF1A and PDF1B as input sequences, we searched the complete human EST and genome data. Analysis of the ESTs produced a family of five candidates (AI859289, AL045195, AW501444, AI765656 and AW499510). Two clearly came from bacterial DNA contamination (AW499510 and AW501444), whereas the three others were associated with 18 additional related sequences in Unigene Hs.130849 (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/UniGene/; CITATION, CITATION). With the help of these ESTs, we identified the associated gene fragment composed of two exons on human chromosome 16 (Table I). We cloned the corresponding, full‐length cDNA from human fetal tissues by RACE. The deduced PDF was very similar to insect and A.thaliana PDF1A, i.e. the mitochondrial PDF (FIG-REF). Data from Serial Analysis of Gene Expression (CITATION) of Unigene Hs.130849 at http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/SAGE/ revealed that this sequence was expressed at the same level in all types of tissues in human, a situation similar to that of Arabidopsis PDF1A (see previous results). We also searched the mouse EST and identified four sequences (AA438042, AV113186, AA162512 and AA153405) related to human PDF1A (Unigene Mm.34708). The clone corresponding to the longest insertion was re‐sequenced and the sequence extended (FIG-REF). Although the cDNA insertion was partial, it was quite similar to the human PDF1A homologue. Finally, homologues of the human PDF1A sequence were also found in the Rattus norvegicus EST library and in a partial genome sequence of the freshwater pufferfish Tetraodon nigroviridis (FIG-REF). These data show that the mitochondrial PDF1A homologue is constitutively expressed in many animal cells. It is, therefore, likely that animal cells possess the machinery of N‐terminal protein processing that we identified and characterized for the first time in higher plants.
!~MM~! The bacterial strains and plasmids used are shown in Table III. Pal314Tr was constructed as follows. Plasmid pXL1071, which bears a 1.1 kb SmaI–PstI fragment expressing the whole E.coli map gene, was digested with HpaI, which cleaves within the beginning of the MAP open reading frame (ORF). It was then ligated to two complementary oligonucleotides (5′‐TAAGGATCCTA), which introduce a unique BamHI restriction site, an in‐frame TAA translation stop codon and a +1 base frame shift. This yielded plasmid pXLΔ, which expresses a truncated inactive MAP. The SacI–PstI fragment of pXLΔ was then sub‐cloned between the same sites of pMAK705 to yield pMapΔ. Using the procedure described by CITATION, we constructed, using strain K37 as starting material, strain Pal314‐pMap. This strain was made recombination deficient by conjugation with the recA56 Hfr strain JC10240. This yielded Pal314Tr‐pMap. At non‐permissive temperature (42°C), this strain fails to grow on Luria–Bertani (LB) plates. At 30°C the strain grows. Arabidopsis thaliana (Wisconsin ecotype) seeds were sown after surface sterilization on Murashige and Skoog (ICN) medium (CITATION) containing 1% agarose and incubated in a growth chamber (22°C/18°C, 14 h daylight) for up to 2 weeks. Alternatively, for long‐term growth, seeds were directly sown on soil or sand and grown in a greenhouse. Lycopersicon esculentum (Money Marker) was grown in a greenhouse (24°C/18°C, 16 h daylight) for 1 month. Restriction enzymes and T4 DNA ligase were purchased from New England BioLabs and Bethesda Research Laboratories. Buffers used were those indicated by the suppliers. Oligonucleotides were synthesized by MWG‐AG‐Biotech. A Perkin‐Elmer 2400 GeneAmp PCR system was used for all PCR analyses. Nucleotide sequences were determined by the Big‐Dye terminator method (Perkin‐Elmer), with DNA templates purified with the Qiagen mini‐prep. kit and analysed on a semi‐automated sequencing system (model 373A; Applied‐Biosystems). Nucleotide sequence data (11 cDNAs) are available at DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank under accession Nos AF239156, AF250958, AF250959, AF250960, AF250961, AF250962, AF250963 AF250964, AF269165, AF271258 and AF300880. DNA was extracted from 2‐week‐old seedlings by using the DNeasy plant maxi kit (Qiagen). RNA was prepared from A.thaliana tissues as described previously (CITATION). The RNAs were further purified with an RNeasy kit (Qiagen). Poly(A)+ RNA samples for electrophoresis were prepared with the Oligotex kit (Qiagen). RNA concentrations were quantified by measuring absorbance at 260 nm and equal amounts (1–2 μg) were size‐fractionated by electrophoresis through 6% formaldehyde–1.2% agarose gels prior to transfer to nylon membranes (Hybond‐N; Amersham‐Pharmacia Biotech). Transcript sizes were assessed by comparison with two RNA ladders (Gibco‐BRL, 1.77–0.16 kb; Promega Biotech, 6.58–0.28 kb) after staining with methylene blue (CITATION). An oligolabelling kit (Amersham‐Pharmacia Biotech) was used to label probes with the various full‐length cDNAs (Table I) as templates and [α‐32P]dATP and [α‐32P]dCTP (800 Ci/mmol). Probes were purified with the QIAquick nucleotide removal kit (Qiagen). Northern and Southern blotting were performed as described (CITATION) with stringent hybridization and washing. Radioactivity was revealed with phosphor screens on a PhosphorImager (Storm 840; Molecular Dynamics). The systematic lower signal of the mRNAs in siliques is likely to be due to the accumulation of mRNAs encoding seed storage proteins. This was verified by using a seed‐specific probe (encoding the seed‐storage protein albumin 2S) that hybridized strongly with the silique mRNA lane only (data not shown). RT–PCR analyses were performed using the Superscript ONE‐STEP kit (Gibco‐BRL) with oligonucleotides the sequence of which overlapped two adjacent exon borders to avoid cross amplification with contaminant genomic DNA. After gel electrophoresis, blotting and hybridization, radioactivity associated with the amplified fragments was quantified on a PhosphorImager. Quantitative results were used to confirm the data obtained with northern blot experiments. RACE involved libraries from A.thaliana seedlings (2 weeks) and L.esculentum young leaves (∼1 cm) constructed starting from 1 μg of poly(A)+ mRNA purified from total RNA with the Poly(A) Quick mRNA isolation kit (Stratagene). The Marathon™ cDNA Amplification kit (Clontech) and the recommendations of the manufacturer were used for the construction of both RACE libraries. The RACE library from human fetus was purchased from Clontech. Screening for the 5′ and 3′ extremities involved nested PCR using the Advantage cDNA PCR kit (Clontech) for the first amplification step and the Advantage‐HF2 PCR kit (Clontech) or PfuTurbo DNA Polymerase (Stratagene) for the second amplification. Amplification experiments of MAP1C led to three PCR products. Random cloning showed that one of the PCR products was a consequence of mRNAs incorrectly spliced at the level of intron 4. About one half of the cloned cDNAs corresponded to fragments either containing the full‐length intron 4 or with incorrect splicing at this level, the intron being shifted by 37 and 64 bases upstream of the authentic acceptor and donor sites, respectively. Both aberrant and wrongly spliced mRNAs encoded greatly truncated proteins that were expected to be inactive. Similarly, ∼50% of the PCR products of MAP2A showed a lack of cleavage of their intron 1. Finally, two different 3′ PCR products were found for A.thaliana PDF1B. The difference concerned the 3′ untranslated sequence: one of the two transcripts showed splicing of the terminal intron whereas the other did not. RT–PCR experiments indicated that the unspliced transcript accounted for ∼10–20% of the mRNAs (data not shown). PCR products were further cloned in pBluescriptSK or pEBNB. In most cases, a dozen of the longest clones (at the 5′ and 3′ ends of the cDNA) were analysed and half were sequenced. The longest clones were used for the reconstruction of the full‐length cDNAs. This was achieved in two steps, using an internal unique restriction site, except for MAP1B where three steps were necessary. JM101Tr cells expressing the given plasmid were grown at 23°C for 8–12 h in LB medium supplemented with 50 μg/ml ampicillin until the OD600 reached ∼0.9. Cells were induced with 0.1 mM isopropyl‐β‐d‐thiogalactopyranlside (IPTG) and left for another 24 h under agitation. The cells were then re‐suspended in 20 mM KH2PO4 pH 7.3, 150 mM NaCl, broken by ultra‐sonication and centrifuged for 5 min in an Eppendorf microfuge (12 000 rpm) at 4°C. The supernatant was collected and 1 vol. mixed with 1 vol. of loading buffer (62.5 mM Tris–HCl pH 6.8, 2% SDS, 5% 2‐mercaptoethanol, 10% glycerol). The pellet was re‐suspended and solubilized in the same buffer. Protein concentrations were measured according to CITATION with the Bio‐Rad protein assay kit. Immunoglobulin G was used as the protein standard. The Mini‐PROTEAN III system (Bio‐Rad) was used for polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) on SDS denaturing gels (12% gels, 0.75 mm thickness). Gels were stained with Bio‐Safe Coomassie Stain (Bio‐Rad). Proteins were electro‐transferred on nitrocellulose BA85 membranes (Schleicher and Schüll) with a wet transfer unit (Hoefer, MiniTank Transphor Unit) in the cold room. Western blots with mouse anti‐His‐tag monoclonal antibodies (Clontech; dilution 1/2000) and peroxidase‐linked anti‐mouse antibodies from sheep (dilution 1/5000) were developed with the ECL detection reagents (Amersham‐Pharmacia Biotech) and X‐Ray films (Kodak). Peptide deformylase activity assay was coupled to formate dehydrogenase essentially as described (CITATION). PDF activity was assayed at 37°C as the increase of the absorbance at 340 nm of NADH (ϵM = 6300 M−1 cm−1). The standard assay was performed in a final volume of 200 μl with a 1 cm optical path. The time‐course absorbance change was measured with an Ultrospec 4000 spectrophotometer (Amersham‐Pharmacia Biotech). The reaction mixtures contained 50 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 1 mM Fo‐Met‐Ala‐Ser (Bachem) or Fo‐Met‐Ala (Sigma), 12 mM NAD+ (Boehringer), 1 mM NiCl2 and 4.5 U/ml yeast formate dehydrogenase (Sigma). The reaction was started by the addition of 5 μl of crude bacterial extract diluted in 50 mM HEPES pH 7.5. Two plasmids, pSmGFP and pSmRSGFP, expressing GFP under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, were used and expressed transiently in plant cells. Both encoded soluble highly fluorescent variants of GFP for use in higher plants (CITATION; CITATION). In addition to the Q80R, F99S, M153T and V163A substitutions borne by both constructs, smGFP and smRSGFP differed at amino acid position S65; RSGFP bearing the S65T substitution causing an increased fluorescence output and higher expression levels. Note that re‐sequencing of the CamV35S–GFP region (data available upon request) of these plasmids allowed us to identify a unique XbaI restriction site just upstream from the BamHI site. Biolistic bombardments were performed with a PDS‐1000/He instrument (Bio‐Rad). Acceleration of gold micro‐carriers (1.0 μm) coated with 1.2 μg of pure plasmid DNA (purified with Qiagen mini‐prep kits) spotted on macro‐carriers was used to transform onion epidermal cells. Bombardment parameters were as follows: vacuum, 28 inches Hg; distance to target, 6 cm; helium pressure, 650 p.s.i. Onion scales were left for 12–24 h in the dark at 24°C, and epidermal tissues removed and layered in water on glass slides for microscopy. The tissues were examined under a Reichert epifluorescence microscope and then a confocal microscope. For the Reichert epifluorescence microscope, GFP‐specific fluorescence was observed by using the filters BP475–495 nm (excitation), DS510 nm (dichroic) and LP520–560 nm (barrier). Confocal microscopy was carried out using a confocal laser scanning microscope (Sarastro 2000; Molecular Dynamics) running on a SiliconGraphics Indy workstation. The confocal microscope was equipped with a 25 mW argon laser (488 nm), a 510 EFLP short pass filter for excitation and an upright Nikon microscope. A reflect short pass beam‐splitter filter (565DRLP) was used to separate the emission beam in two. GFP fluorescence was collected through a bandpass filter (530DF30). In some experiments Mitotracker Red CMXRos (Molecular Probes, Leiden) was used to stain mitochondria. The dye was added to a final concentration of 1 μM. Mitotracker Red fluorescence was collected through the 565DRLP and a long pass filter (600ELFP). Images (512 × 512 pixels) were generated using two‐pass Kalman averaging and 40×, 60× or 100× Nikon oil objectives with NA 1.3–1.4.
