!~ABS~! We previously isolated an Arabidopsis peroxisome‐deficient ped2 mutant by its resistance to 2,4‐dichlorophenoxybutyric acid. Here, we describe the isolation of a gene responsible for this deficiency, called the PED2 gene, by positional cloning and confirmed its identity by complementation analysis. The amino acid sequence of the predicted protein product is similar to that of human Pex14p, which is a key component of the peroxisomal protein import machinery. Therefore, we decided to call it AtPex14p. Analyses of the ped2 mutant revealed that AtPex14p controls intracellular transport of both peroxisome targeting signal (PTS)1‐ and PTS2‐containing proteins into three different types of peroxisomes, namely glyoxysomes, leaf peroxisomes and unspecialized peroxisomes. Mutation in the PED2 gene results in reduction of enzymes in all of these functionally differentiated peroxisomes. The reduction in these enzymes induces pleiotropic defects, such as fatty acid degradation, photorespiration and the morphology of peroxisomes. These data suggest that the AtPex14p has a common role in maintaining physiological functions of each of these three kinds of plant peroxisomes by determining peroxisomal protein targeting.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis ped2 mutant, which has a Landsberg erecta ecotype background, was identified by its resistance to the presence of 2,4‐DB. This mutant requires sucrose for post‐germinative growth, because of its reduced activity for fatty acid β‐oxidation. Our initial mapping of PED2 located it to the lower arm of chromosome 5, between two molecular markers, LFY3 and g2368 (CITATION). We outcrossed the ped2 mutant (which has a Landsberg erecta ecotype background) to wild‐type Arabidopsis, which has a Columbia ecotype background, and identified 310 F2 progenies that have homozygous ped2 alleles for high‐resolution mapping. These progenies were subsequently scored according to their genetic background at a series of molecular markers using the cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) mapping procedure described by CITATION (FIG-REF). The number of chromosomes that showed a Columbia background represents the number of recombinations that occurred between the PED2 locus and the position of each molecular marker, since the genomic DNA of the ped2 mutant has a Landsberg erecta background. To identify the genetic background of chromosome 5 between LFY3 and g2368, we generated four molecular markers, MRG21‐3, MQB2‐1, MQB2‐4, MHJ24‐4, based on the nucleotide sequences of P1 contigs that have been reported by the Kazusa DNA Institute, Chiba, Japan (http://www.kazusa.or.jp/kaos/). As summarized in FIG-REF, high‐resolution mapping revealed that the PED2 locus is located between MRG21‐3 and MQB2‐4. The closest molecular marker to the PED2 locus is MQB2‐1. This result strongly suggests that the PED2 gene is contained within a single P1 clone, MQB2. [[FIGURE]] MQB2 is reported to contain 16 predicted genes (http://www.kazusa.or.jp/kaos/). Based on the nucleotide sequences, we designed a set of oligonucleotide primers that could amplify one of the predicted genes by using the PCR. This gene is located within the 7734 bp XhoI fragment contained in MQB2 (FIG-REF). DNA fragments were amplified from genomic DNAs of wild‐type Arabidopsis (ecotype Landsberg erecta) and the ped2 mutant, using this primer set, and were fully sequenced. The nucleotide sequences of the two fragments are identical except for one nucleotide substitution, from C in the wild‐type plant to T in the ped2 mutant (FIG-REF, arrowhead). This result strongly indicated that the 7734 bp XhoI fragment contained the PED2 gene. To confirm this result, the 7734 bp XhoI fragment isolated from the MQB2 clone was inserted into a plant binary vector, pBI121Δ35S, and then transformed into the ped2 mutant by Agrobacterium‐mediated transformation (CITATION). Seeds from individual kanamycin‐resistant T2 progenies were scored for kanamycin resistance to identify the lines that are homozygous for the transgene. The homozygous T3 lines were assayed for 2,4‐DB resistance and a sucrose requirement during post‐germinative growth. As we have previously reported, the ped2 mutant was resistant to a toxic level of 2,4‐DB, while it was sensitive to the absence of sucrose in the growth medium (FIG-REF and FIG-REF, ped2). In contrast, the ped2 mutant transformed with the 7734 bp XhoI fragment became sensitive to a toxic level of 2,4‐DB, whereas it was resistant to the absence of sucrose in the growth medium [FIG-REF and FIG-REF, ped2(PED2)]. These phenotypes are identical to wild‐type plants (FIG-REF and FIG-REF, WT). These data indicated that the genomic sequence determined in this study corresponds to the PED2 gene. The nucleotide sequence data of PED2 are available in the DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank nucleotide sequence databases (AB037538). A cDNA clone of the PED2 gene was generated using RT–PCR with total RNA isolated from wild‐type plants. The first methionine that appeared in this cDNA represents the start of the open reading frame, since the 5′ primer used for the PCR was designed to hybridize with the 5′ untranslated region including an in‐frame stop codon. We determined the nucleotide sequence of the cDNA (DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank accession No. AB037539). Comparison of the cDNA and genomic DNA sequences showed that the PED2 gene contains 12 exons (FIG-REF). The deduced amino acid sequence of the gene product is composed of 507 amino acid residues (FIG-REF). A nucleotide substitution occurred in the ped2 mutant, converting a CAA codon encoding Gln254 of the gene product to a stop codon (TAA) (FIG-REF, asterisk). The amino acid sequence of the gene product shows significant similarity to mammalian and fungal Pex14p, one of the peroxisomal membrane proteins involved in the peroxisomal protein targeting machinery (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), and is most similar to that of human Pex14p (FIG-REF). Therefore we decided to call it AtPex14p. AtPex14p contains at lease two hydrophobic segments and a coiled‐coil region (FIG-REF). Although two yeast Pex14p are known to contain the class II SH3 ligand consensus sequence (CITATION), AtPex14p does not contain such a motif. In addition, there is no obvious PTS. [[FIGURE]] To analyze the subcellular localization of AtPex14p, we prepared an antiserum raised against a fusion protein containing a partial amino acid sequence of AtPex14p (Met1–Pro100). This antiserum recognized a 75 kDa protein in wild‐type plant (FIG-REF, WT), while no cross‐reactive band was detected in the ped2 mutant (FIG-REF, ped2). These data indicate that AtPex14p is the 75 kDa protein. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the subcellular localization of Pex14p in plant cells, homogenates prepared from pumpkin etiolated cotyledons were subjected to sucrose density gradient centrifugation. Fractions thus obtained were analyzed using an immunoblotting technique with the antibody raised against AtPex14p (FIG-REF). The 75 kDa protein was detected in fractions 23–25, whose densities were 1.25 g/cm3. These fractions also contained other glyoxysomal marker enzymes, such as isocitrate lyase and catalase, while they did not contain a mitochondrial marker enzyme (cytochrome c oxidase) activity (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] FIG-REF represents the result of the extensive subfractionation studies performed by the treatment of intact glyoxysomes with various solutions. Pex14p and ascorbate peroxidase, a marker enzyme for peroxisomal membranes (CITATION), were found in the insoluble fraction even after treatment with alkaline solution. However, isocitrate lyase, a marker enzyme for the glyoxysomal matrix, was dissolved completely both in high‐salt buffer and alkaline solution. In addition, Pex14p in intact glyoxysomes was sensitive to the digestion of proteinase K both in the absence and presence of Triton X‐100, whereas isocitrate lyase was degraded only in the presence of Triton X‐100 (FIG-REF). Overall results suggest that the 75 kDa protein is a peroxisomal membrane‐associated protein, and that at least a part of the polypeptide is located in the cytosol. To analyze the intracellular transport of PTS1‐containing proteins in the ped2 mutant, we generated plants expressing a jellyfish green fluorescent protein (GFP)–PTS1 fusion protein (GFP–PTS1) in a ped2 background, as described previously (CITATION). GFP–PTS1 consisted of GFP fused to a dodecapeptide containing serine‐lysine‐leucine at the C‐terminal end. These plants were created by outcrossing the ped2 mutant with transgenic Arabidopsis expressing GFP–PTS1. Additional control plants were created by outcrossing the ped2 mutant with transgenic Arabidopsis expressing only GFP. When GFP–PTS1 is expressed in cells of the F3 progeny that are homozygous for the ped2 allele, green fluorescence was observed both in the periphery of the cells (FIG-REF, arrow) and in small spots distributed diffusely throughout the periphery (FIG-REF, arrowhead). The fluorescence detected in the periphery indicated that a part of the GFP–PTS1 remains in the cytosol, since GFP without PTS1 showed a similar fluorescent pattern in the ped2 mutant (FIG-REF, arrow) and in wild‐type plants (data not shown). In FIG-REF and FIG-REF, the dark space surrounded by the cytosol corresponds to a central vacuole. The fluorescent spots distributed in the cytosol indicate that a significant amount of GFP–PTS1 was recognized correctly and transported into the peroxisomes in the cells of the ped2 mutant. In contrast, only punctate fluorescence was observed when GFP–PTS1 was expressed in wild‐type plants (FIG-REF). These data indicate that the ability for intracellular transport of PTS1‐containing proteins is reduced in the ped2 mutant. [[FIGURE]] To analyze intracellular transport of PTS2‐containing proteins in the ped2 mutant, two PTS2‐containing proteins, 3‐ketoacyl CoA thiolase (FIG-REF, ped2) and malate dehydrogenase (FIG-REF, ped2), were analyzed in 3‐ and 5‐day‐old etiolated cotyledons and 7‐day‐old green cotyledons by using an immunoblotting technique. As shown in FIG-REF, 3‐day‐old etiolated cotyledons contained two types of 3‐ketoacyl CoA thiolase. One of these corresponds to the mature form of 3‐ketoacyl CoA thiolase (45 kDa) (FIG-REF, arrowhead), whereas the other was an additional protein with a higher molecular mass (48 kDa) (FIG-REF, arrow). We have demonstrated previously that the larger protein corresponded to the precursor form of 3‐ketoacyl CoA thiolase that accumulated in the cytosol (CITATION; CITATION). In addition, 3‐day‐old etiolated cotyledons contained the mature form of malate dehydrogenase (33 kDa) (FIG-REF, arrowhead) and the precursor form of the enzyme (37 kDa) (FIG-REF, arrow). In contrast, the wild‐type plants did not contain detectable amounts of the precursor proteins during any stages of post‐germinative growth (FIG-REF and FIG-REF, WT). The precursor proteins detected in 3‐day‐old etiolated cotyledons of the ped2 mutant rapidly disappeared, whereas the amounts of the mature proteins remained at similar levels during subsequent seedling growth. 3‐Ketoacyl CoA thiolase and malate dehydrogenase are known to be actively synthesized in cells of etiolated cotyledons but not in the green cotyledons (CITATION, CITATION). Accumulation of the precursors for PTS2‐containing proteins in the ped2 mutant occurred only during the period of active protein synthesis. These data indicate that the ped2 mutant has reduced activity for the intracellular transport of PTS2‐containing proteins, and is not able to import all of the PTS2‐containing proteins when these proteins are actively synthesized. [[FIGURE]] FIG-REF shows an immunoelectron microscopic analysis of various peroxisomes in wild‐type plants and the ped2 mutant. As mentioned above, there are three types of plant peroxisomes: glyoxysomes, leaf peroxisomes and non‐specialized peroxisomes. In wild‐type plants, these peroxisomes have similar morphologies (CITATION). As shown in FIG-REF, glyoxysomes found in the 5‐day‐old etiolated cotyledons of wild‐type plants are ∼0.5 μm in diameter and have a round or oval shape containing a uniform matrix. The glyoxysomes contain enzymes for fatty acid β‐oxidation. When cells were immunogold labeled using antibodies raised against one of these enzymes, 3‐ketoacyl CoA thiolase, the gold particles were exclusively localized on the glyoxysomes (FIG-REF). In contrast, the peroxisomes in the ped2 mutant showed an abnormal morphology (FIG-REF). Glyoxysomes found in the etiolated cotyledons of the ped2 mutant were shrunken and not round (FIG-REF). Therefore, they looked very different from the glyoxysomes of wild‐type plants. A small but significant number of gold particles were detected when the glyoxysomes of the ped2 mutant were stained with antibodies raised against 3‐ketoacyl CoA thiolase. In contrast, the number of gold particles detected in the cytosol was not significant, in spite of the fact that the precursor of 3‐ketoacyl CoA thiolase is accumulated in the cytosol. This may be because the concentration of the precursor that accumulated in the cytosol was not sufficient to be clearly detected. A similar abnormal morphology was detected in leaf peroxisomes found in cells of green cotyledons (FIG-REF) and leaves (FIG-REF), as well as in unspecialized peroxisomes found in cells of root (FIG-REF). Since the leaf peroxisomes contain photorespiration enzymes, such as hydroxypyruvate reductase, the leaf peroxisomes were stained using antibodies raised against hydroxypyruvate reductase (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). However, fewer gold particles were detected in the leaf peroxisomes of the ped2 mutant than in those of the wild‐type plant (data not shown). A similar phenomenon was observed when unspecialized peroxisomes in root cells were stained with antibodies raised against catalase (FIG-REF). These data indicate that all three kinds of peroxisome in the ped2 mutant have abnormal morphologies, and contain fewer enzymes than do the peroxisomes of wild‐type plants. [[FIGURE]] When ped2 mutants were grown in a normal atmosphere (36 Pa CO2), they always had yellow‐green leaves and showed a dwarf phenotype (FIG-REF, ped2/air) compared with wild‐type plants (FIG-REF, WT/air). No such phenotypes were observed in transgenic ped2 mutants transformed with the wild‐type PED2 gene (data not shown). These phenotypes were recovered when the ped2 mutant was grown under high CO2 conditions (1000 Pa CO2) (FIG-REF, ped2/CO2). A similar phenomenon was observed in mutants with alterations in the photorespiratory pathway (CITATION). Since some enzymes involved in the photorespiratory pathway are PTS1‐containing proteins that are located in leaf peroxisomes, we assumed that these effects are induced by the reduced activity of photorespiration in the ped2 mutant. We tested this hypothesis by measuring the maximal quantum yield of photosystem II, which can be estimated from the ratio of the variable fluorescence of dark‐adapted chlorophyll a to the maximum fluorescence (Fv/Fm) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We compared the Fv/Fm of dark‐adapted leaves of the ped2 mutant with that of wild‐type plants. We also compared it with the Fv/Fm of the stm mutant, which lacks one of the enzymes for photorespiration, a mitochondrial serine transhydroxymethylase (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To reduce the effect of photoinhibition, plants were grown for 3 weeks in an atmosphere containing high CO2 (1000 Pa) under low light (50 μE/m2/s). Under these conditions, the ped2 mutant, the wild‐type plant and the stm mutant showed normal growth, and had similar Fv/Fm values of ∼0.8 (FIG-REF, 0 min). These plants were then transferred to a normal atmosphere (36 Pa CO2), where they were illuminated with a strong light (450 μE/m2/s). Under these conditions, ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RuBisCO) has an oxygenase activity in addition to its carboxylase activity, which is necessary for CO2 fixation in photosynthesis. Phosphoglycolate, a byproduct of the oxygenase reaction, is metabolized by the photorespiration enzymes, and finally returned to the Calvin–Benson cycle. Therefore, the Fv/Fm of the wild‐type plants would not be expected to change after the strong illumination, since photorespiration operates properly and photoinhibition is not induced under such conditions. This is what was observed (FIG-REF, filled squares). In contrast, the Fv/Fm ratios of the ped2 and stm mutants decreased after the transfer to the same conditions (FIG-REF, open circles and filled triangles). These mutants were unable to maintain sufficient activity of the Calvin–Benson cycle under these conditions, because they could not metabolize phosphoglycolate due to the defect in photorespiration. The reduced activity of the Calvin–Benson cycle induced an excessive supply of energy from the light reaction of photosynthesis, and caused photoinhibition under high light irradiation. The imbalance between the light reaction and the Calvin–Benson cycle might have been responsible for the observed reduction of Fv/Fm. After 120 min of illumination, Fv/Fm of the ped2 mutant reached a plateau (Fv/Fm = 0.64), while that of the stm mutant kept decreasing. These results suggest that the activity for photorespiration in the ped2 mutant is partially inhibited, but is stronger than that in the stm mutant.
!~MM~! Identification of the ped2 mutant of Arabidopsis thaliana has been described previously (CITATION). Progenies that had been back‐crossed twice were used in this study. Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Landsberg erecta was used as the wild‐type plant. Seeds of the stm mutant were kindly provided by the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, Ohio State University. Plants were grown under a 16 h light (100 μE/m2/s)/8 h dark cycle at 22°C. The ped2 mutant was outcrossed to the wild‐type plant [ecotype Columbia (Col‐0)]. F2 progeny, obtained by self‐fertilization of the F1 plants, were germinated on growth medium without sucrose (CITATION). Three hundred and ten seedlings that could not expand green cotyledons and leaves on the growth medium were recovered after transferring these seedlings to medium containing sucrose. The genomic DNA of these F2 plants was individually isolated. Recombinations that occurred between the PED2 locus and the molecular markers were scored by using the CAPS mapping procedure (CITATION). The molecular marker, LFY3, has been described previously (CITATION). The nucleotide sequences of the primers and the enzymes for other molecular markers are as follows. MRG21‐3: GAGCATCGAAATGCGTCACG and GTCTTCTTTGATCCGATTAGACCG, RsaI; MQB2‐1: TGACTTGCTGTCTGAGGTTCC and TCACTGATTCCACCGATTCC, RsaI; MQB2‐4: CGCCTTGATTGTTGCTTCTACC and CGTGTCAAGGCCAATAGTCC, HinfI; MHJ24‐4: TGGTCCATATTCCTGAAGACG and CGCTCTTCACAATGATCTGC, NcoI. DNA and RNA extraction, sequence determination and routine molecular biological techniques were performed by standard techniques (CITATION). For identification of the PED2 gene, the DNA fragments were amplified by the PCR using 100 ng of genomic DNA isolated from wild‐type plants and the ped2 mutant as templates, a 5′ primer (CTTCCAAGGTTAGTGAGCTGC) and a 3′ primer (GGCTCTTCACTCATGCTTCC). A PED2 cDNA clone was generated by RT–PCR with total RNA isolated from 7‐day‐old cotyledons of wild‐type plants using a 5′ primer (CTTCCAAGGTTAGTGAGCTGC) and a 3′ primer (GTTTTTAGTTCCCTTCCTGGC). Analysis of the nucleotide sequences of those DNA fragments was performed according to a previous report (CITATION). The P1 clone, MQB2, which contains the PED2 gene was kindly sent from the Kazusa DNA Institute, Chiba, Japan. XhoI fragments obtained after complete digestion of MQB2 DNA were subcloned into the XhoI site of Bluescript KS+. The XhoI fragment (7734 bp) that had been inserted in the vector was recovered, and then ligated to the XhoI site of pBI121Δ35S. A plant binary vector, pBI121Δ35S, was constructed from pBI121 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) by replacing a HindIII–SacI fragment with a polylinker consisting of HindIII, XhoI, SmaI, SpeI and SacI sites. The vector containing the XhoI fragment was designated as pBI‐PED2. pBI‐PED2 was introduced into the ped2 mutant by the vacuum infiltration method (CITATION) using Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain C58C1RifR) harboring pBI‐PED2. T3 transformants harboring homozygous transgenes were analyzed by plating on either growth medium containing 0.2 μg/ml 2,4‐DB or growth medium without sucrose. A DNA fragment encoding from Met1 to Pro100 of AtPex14p was amplified from the PED2 cDNA by PCR using a 5′ primer (GGGAGCTCGCTGCTATGGCGACT) and a 3′ primer (CCCTCGAGTTAAGGAACACGGCGGAAAGCTT). The amplified DNA was inserted into the pET32 vector (Novagen, Madison, WI). A fusion protein was synthesized in Escherichia coli cells, and used for the production of rabbit antibody raised against AtPex14p according to the method reported previously (CITATION). We also used antibodies raised against pumpkin 3‐ketoacyl CoA thiolase (CITATION), pumpkin malate dehydrogenase (CITATION), caster bean isocitrate lyase (CITATION) and pumpkin ascorbate peroxidase (CITATION). Immunoblot analyses were performed according to protocols described previously (CITATION). Subcellular fractionation of 5‐day‐old pumpkin etiolated cotyledons (2 g, fresh weight) was performed using 30–60% (w/w) sucrose density gradient centrifugation according to the method previously reported (CITATION). After the centrifugation, fractions of 0.5 ml were collected, and used for immunoblot analyses and enzyme assays. Isolation of intact glyoxysomes from 5‐day‐old pumpkin etiolated cotyledons (100 g, fresh weight) by Percoll density gradient centrifugation has also been reported previously (CITATION). The intact glyoxysomes (250 μg total protein) were resuspended in 200 μl of either low salt buffer, high salt buffer or alkaline solution. Each solution consists of 10 mM HEPES–KOH pH 7.2, 500 mM KCl with 10 mM HEPES–KOH pH 7.2 and 0.1 M Na2CO3 pH 11, respectively. After centrifugation at 100 000 g for 30 min, these samples were separated into supernatant and pellet. The pellets were resuspended in 200 μl of 100 mM HEPES–KOH pH 7.2. In some experiments, the intact glyoxysomes (250 μg total protein) were incubated in buffer containing 10 mM HEPES–KOH pH 7.2, 1 mM EDTA and 0.3 M mannitol with an appropriate concentration of proteinase K for 30 min at 4°C in the presence or absence of 5% Triton X‐100. The reactions were terminated by the addition of 5 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. To produce ped2 mutants expressing GFP–PTS1 and GFP, ped2 mutants were outcrossed to transgenic Arabidopsis expressing GFP–PTS1 or GFP. Generation of these kanamycin‐resistant transgenic plants was reported previously (CITATION). Homozygous F3 plants (ped2/ped2, GFP–PTS1/GFP–PTS1 and ped2/ped2, GFP/GFP) were identified by determining the sucrose requirement and the kanamycin resistance during post‐germinative growth. The homozygous F3 plants and transgenic wild‐type plant expressing GFP were grown for 10 days on growth medium under constant illumination. Roots of these plants were mounted under coverslips with phosphate‐buffered saline. The specimens were examined using a TCS NT laser‐scanning confocal microscope under the same condition with ×40 objective lens and an FITC filter set (Leica Japan, Tokyo, Japan). Five‐day‐old etiolated cotyledons, 7‐day‐old green cotyledons, 14‐day‐old leaves and 14‐day‐old roots were harvested from plants that were grown for the appropriate number of days in darkness or under constant illumination. Preparation of the ultrathin sections, and the immunoelectron microscopic analyses were performed according to the protocol described previously (CITATION). To reduce the effect of photoinhibition, plants were grown for 4 weeks in an atmosphere containing 1000 Pa CO2 under low light (50 μE/m2/s). These plants were then illuminated with strong light (450 μE/m2/s) for 0, 30, 60, 120 and 240 min in a normal atmosphere (36 Pa CO2). After the end of each illumination period, plants were kept for 30 min in the dark. The ratio of variable fluorescence to maximum fluorescence (Fv/Fm) was automatically calculated from the result of the modulated chlorophyll fluorescence emission from the upper surface of dark‐adapted leaves, which was measured using a pulse amplitude modulation fluorometer (Mini‐PAM; H.Walz, Effeltrich, Germany).
