!~ABS~! Light is a crucial environmental signal that controls many photomorphogenic and circadian responses in plants (CITATION) . Perception and transduction of light is achieved by at least two principal groups of photoreceptors, phytochromes and cryptochromes (CITATION) . Phytochromes are red/far-red light-absorbing receptors encoded by a gene family of five members (phyA to phyE) (CITATION) in Arabidopsis. Cryptochrome 1 (cry1), cryptochrome 2 (cry2) and phototropin are the blue/ultraviolet-A light receptors that have been characterized in Arabidopsis5. Previous studies showed that modulation of many physiological responses in plants is achieved by genetic interactions between different photoreceptors (CITATION) ; however, little is known about the nature of these interactions and their roles in the signal transduction pathway. Here we show the genetic interaction that occurs between the Arabidopsis photoreceptors phyB and cry2 in the control of flowering time, hypocotyl elongation and circadian period by the clock. PhyB interacts directly with cry2 as observed in co-immunoprecipitation experiments with transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing cry2. Using fluorescent resonance energy transfer microscopy, we show that phyB and cry2 interact in nuclear speckles that are formed in a light-dependent fashion.
!~RES~! Light signals markedly affect the pace of the clock by activating different photoreceptors (CITATION) . In response to increasing light intensity, the period length of the circadian expressed CAB2::luciferase gene (CITATION) decreases (CITATION) . Here, cry2 mutant seedlings displayed a deficiency in the perception of white light, as shown by a longer period length of CAB2::luciferase expression at intermediate fluence rates (Fig. 1a). This effect was not observed in red light (Fig. 1b), whereas in blue light only a small increment was observed at high fluence rates (Fig. 1c). These results indicate that full cry2 function is only apparent on simultaneous illumination with multiple wavelengths of light, and suggests that it has a requirement for phytochrome activation. The significance of the shorter period length in cry2 mutants at the lowest red or blue fluence rates remains unclear. [[FIGURE]] Light with a reduced red/far-red (R/FR) ratio that mimics light reflected from neighbouring vegetation causes the conversion of phytochrome from the active Pfr form to the inactive Pr form, and results in a shade-avoidance response including promotion of elongation growth and accelerated flowering (CITATION) . Cry2-deficient Arabidopsis plants have a delayed flowering phenotype in response to extended photoperiods (CITATION) , and regulation of floral induction is mediated by the antagonistic actions of cry2 and phyB (CITATION) . Here, the late flowering phenotype of cry2 in white light was no longer apparent under a low R/FR ratio (white + FR light), showing a marked acceleration of flowering time (Fig. 1d). These results indicate that the active Pfr form of phytochrome is required for the expression of cry2 phenotype. Thus, either cry2 suppresses phyB signalling, or removal of Pfr overrides other pathways in which cry2 regulates flowering. Furthermore, although cry2 seedlings showed a wild-type hypocotyl length in white light, they displayed a long hypocotyl phenotype in white + FR light (Fig. 1e). We propose that long hypocotyl phenotype of cry2 is not apparent in white light because it is negated by increased phyB action in the absence of cry2 (phyB is the major phytochrome that inhibits hypocotyl elongation in white light (CITATION) ). In agreement with this, cry2 seedlings showed a greater promotion of elongation growth than wild-type seedlings. These results are consistent with a suppression of phyB signalling by cry2. Alternatively, a conditional redundancy between cry2 and phytochrome signalling may also be possible. To examine whether phyB directly interacts with cry2, we performed co-immunoprecipitation assays with Arabidopsis transgenic plants overexpressing cry2 (cry2+) (CITATION) . Immunoprecipitation with anti-phyB antibody and subsequent detection of cry2 (Fig. 1f, anti-cry2 western blot) showed a band with a relative molecular mass of about 75,000 (Mr ≈ 75K) (lane co-IP, cry2+) coincident with the size of the band observed in total protein extracts not subjected to immunoprecipitation (lane total, cry2+). The absence of signal in phyB-deficient Arabidopsis mutant plants (lane co-IP, phyB) or in samples processed without anti-phyB antibody (lane –Ab, cry2+) indicated the specificity of the interaction. Reprobing the same blot with anti-phyB antibody (anti-phyB western blot) confirmed phyB immunoprecipitation (lane co-IP, cry2+) and the absence of signals in negative controls (lanes co-IP, phyB and cry2+, -Ab). These results are consistent with a direct, physical interaction between phyB and cry2 in Arabidopsis plants. Previous reports described the nuclear localization of Arabidopsis cry2 (refs 14, 15). Both human and mouse cry2 also localize in the nucleus (CITATION) suggesting that the nuclear localization is important for cry2 function. We therefore examined the effects of light in cry2 subcellular localization using a fusion protein of cry2 with the red fluorescent protein (RFP). In transfected BY-2 protoplasts maintained in the dark, cry2–RFP appeared homogeneously distributed within the nucleus (Fig. 2a). Rapid scanning with the blue laser line of the confocal microscope or irradiation with blue light induced the formation of nuclear speckles (Fig. 2b). Superimposition of bright-field and fluorescent images clearly revealed the nuclear accumulation of cry2 (Fig. 2c). Cry2–RFP did not induce speckles in cells maintained in the dark, indicating that light (not overexpressed proteins) may be responsible for the formation of these speckles. Cry2–GFP fusion protein also localized in nuclear speckles, indicating that these speckles were not due to artefactual expression of RFP in plants. Fluorescent speckles were never observed when protoplasts were transfected with non-fused RFP or RFP fused with cry1 (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Previous studies reported that phyB translocates to nuclear speckles under continuous red light (CITATION) . To examine the subcellular relationship between phyB and cry2, we co-transfected BY-2 protoplasts with phyB–GFP and cry2–RFP, and examined the fluorescent signal by confocal microscopy. Co-transfected protoplasts were maintained 8 h in the dark followed by irradiation with continuous red light for accumulation of phyB–GFP in nuclear speckles (Fig. 2d). These cells were then irradiated with blue light or scanned with the blue laser of the confocal microscope to induce cry2 speckles (Fig. 2e). Superimposing both images revealed that some of the speckles where cry2 and phyB accumulated perfectly colocalized in the nucleus (yellow stain in Fig. 2f). PhyB and cry2 colocalize in some but not all of these nuclear speckles. It is possible that both photoreceptors might also have independent functions and that they recruit, in these speckles, other nuclear factors involved in light responses. We next investigated the changes of phyB–GFP and cry2–RFP distribution over time in protoplasts immobilized in agarose and examined by confocal microscopy at 30 s intervals. Figure 2g–i depicts an optical section of a nucleus showing phyB–GFP and cry2–RFP distribution in speckles that did not colocalize (row 0). Scanning at 30-s intervals the same cell revealed that some (row 30 s) or most (row 60 s) of cry2 speckles did colocalize with phyB (yellow stain in merged image). Together, these results demonstrate the light-dependent colocalization of phyB and cry2 in specific nuclear speckles. We next used fluorescent resonance energy transfer (FRET) microscopy to determine whether the nuclear speckles are the sites where phyB and cry2 interact. FRET is a quantum mechanical process by which a fluorescent molecule, the donor, transfers energy by a non-radiative mechanism to an appropriately positioned chromophore, the acceptor (CITATION) . Successful methods for the detection of intramolecular FRET signals in living plant cells have been developed using chromophore mutants of GFP (CITATION) . We report, for the first time to our knowledge, the use of GFP–RFP combination for intermolecular detection of FRET signals in living cells. Before FRET analysis, we calculated GFP–RFP spectral overlap (Jda = 1.67 × 10-13 M-1 cm3) and Förster distance (R0 = 5 nm) to show that GFP–RFP combination is a suitable donor–acceptor pair for FRET (Fig. 3a). The rationale of our experiments resides in the fact that FRET would be detected only when the fluorophores are directly interacting and not simply colocalizing. We first calibrated the microscope system using cells transfected only with phyB–GFP (Fig. 3b) and no cry2–RFP (Fig. 3c). The samples were used to subtract the background and to adjust appropriately the threshold settings (Fig. 3e). This control verified that the signals obtained in FRET were not due to channel overlap. To measure FRET, we excited cells co-expressing phyB–GFP (Fig. 3f) and cry2–RFP (Fig. 3g) with the 488 nm laser-line, and observed cry2–RFP emission using a FVX-BA585IF filter. Significant FRET emission of cry2–RFP (Fig. 3i, FRET) was observed in speckles that colocalized with phyB–GFP (see yellow in merged image, Fig. 3h). These results indicate the direct molecular interaction of phyB and cry2 in nuclear speckles and confirm the previous results obtained in co-immunoprecipitation experiments. [[FIGURE]] FRET measurement as described above can lead to errors, mainly owing to differences in the concentration of phyB–GFP and cry2–RFP or to the direct excitation of RFP at the GFP excitation wavelength. Furthermore, background subtraction to minimum fluorescence values (Fig. 3e) might mask less strong FRET signals and eliminate the possibility of obtaining FRET efficiency maps. We therefore evaluated FRET using a different method that is based on the increase of the donor fluorescence after photochemical destruction of the acceptor (CITATION) . Cells co-expressing phyB–GFP and cry2–RFP (Fig. 4a) were maintained in continuous red light and imaged, first with the 488-nm laser line (phyB–GFP) and later with the 568-nm laser line (cry2–RFP). We chose one of the speckles where phyB–GFP (green) and cry2–RFP (red) colocalized (yellow in merged image) and measured the fluorescence intensity of phyB–GFP in a region roughly 4 µm in diameter (demarcated by a yellow circle; Fig. 4a, pre-bleach). Cry2–RFP was subsequently photobleached by repeated scanning with the 568-nm laser line until no signal was detected (cry2–RFP, Fig. 4a post-bleach). We then measured the fluorescent intensity of phyB–GFP and compared it with that obtained in the same region before bleaching. A clear increase of phyB–GFP fluorescence was observed (compare pre- and post-bleach in Fig. 4a). This effect was not detected in phyB–GFP speckles that did not colocalize with cry2–RFP (Fig. 4b). In those cases, the levels of fluorescence intensity of phyB–GFP after cry2–RFP bleaching remained the same or slightly decreased as compared with those observed before bleaching (pre- and post-bleach in Fig. 4b). To verify that FRET signals were not due to fluorophore colocalization, we carried out an additional negative control with cells co-expressing non-fused RFP and non-fused GFP constructs. Bleaching RFP that colocalized with GFP did not increase GFP fluorescent intensity relative to its fluorescence before bleaching (Fig. 4c, pre- and post-bleach). Our results show that phyB–GFP fluorescence increased at sites where FRET was occurring, confirming the physical interaction between cry2 and phyB in nuclear speckles. [[FIGURE]] The light-induced nuclear compartmentalization of phytochromes (CITATION) , the discovery that they possess kinase activity (CITATION) and the identification of some of their interacting partners (CITATION) have provided crucial understanding of how phytochromes transmit light signals. These findings suggest that regulation of protein expression, phosphorylation and subcellular compartmentalization may have key roles in mediating light-induced physiological responses in plants. Cry1 and cry2 are phosphorylated by the kinase activity of phyA (CITATION) . Our results show that phyB and cry2 interact in specific nuclear speckles. It is possible that these speckles act as ‘transcriptosomes’ similarly to some factors described in animal cells that accumulate in a characteristic speckled pattern and are involved in processing and transcription of RNA (CITATION) . Light-induced responses are also mediated by alteration of protein stability. Cry2 is strongly downregulated by blue-light (CITATION) , so the nuclear speckles could represent sites where cry2 is degraded. Recent studies have suggested that novel clock-associated components contain domains involved in targeting specific substrates for proteolytic degradation (CITATION) . Further experiments need to clarify whether these clock components are involved in cry2 degradation, and whether phyB has a role in this process.
!~MM~! Wild-type and cry2 seeds were grown for 6 d in constant white light (60 µmol m -2 s-1) at 22 °C before being either maintained in constant white light (R/FR ratio 8.53) or transferred to white light supplemented with FR (R/FR ratio 0.05). A low R/FR ratio light was generated by supplementing white light with FR light from two LED light sources (Quantum devices, Barneveld, WI). Light measurements were made using an LI 1800/12 spectroradiometer (Li-Cor, Lincoln, NE). Flowering time was measured as the number of rosette leaves at bolting (production of a 1-cm high cauline stem). Data represent the mean (± s.e.) of 6–8 plants for each treatment. Hypocotyl length was measured after 10 d in the treatments using Scion Image software. Data represent the mean (± s.e.) of 28–31 seedlings for each treatment. Wild-type and cry2 seeds expressing a CAB2::LUCIFERASE reporter construct (CITATION) were grown in 12 h white light/12 h dark cycles for 6 d before being transferred to constant red light (600–700 nm), blue light (400–500 nm) or white light at the intensities indicated. The rhythm of bioluminescence, representing CAB2 transcription, was followed as described (CITATION) and period length was calculated by fitting a cosine wave function to the time series for each seedling (CITATION) . Data represent the mean (± s.e.) of 5–18 seedlings, representative of 2–4 independent experiments. Cry2 overexpression plants (CITATION) (provided by C. Lin, Univ. California, Los Angeles) were grown in 12 h white light/12 h dark cycles and processed for co-immunoprecipitation in the first 15 min of the light cycle. PhyB immunoprecipitation was performed at 4 °C for 2 h using anti-phyB antibody (provided by A. Nagatani, Kyoto Univ., Kyoto) in a buffer containing 10 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 10% glycerol, 100 mM NaCl, 0.2% Triton X-100, 1 mM EDTA and 1 mM dithiothreitol with a mixture of protease inhibitors (Sigma). Gammabind plus sepharose beads (Pharmacia) were used to precipitate the immunoprotein complexes. Cry2 detection was performed using anti-cry2 antibody (provided by C. Lin, Univ. California, Los Angeles). Red fluorescent protein (RFP) coding region was obtained from the vector pDsRed1-N1 (Clontech Laboratories). Cry2 coding sequence was obtained from C. Lin. The fusion protein cry2–RFP was cloned into the vector pRTL2 which contains a CaMV 35S promoter (CITATION) . Colocalization of phyB–GFP (CITATION) and cry2–RFP was examined in BY-2 protoplasts prepared and transfected as described (CITATION) . Protoplasts were maintained 8 h in the dark followed by irradiation with continuous red light (15 µmol m -2 s-1) for 10 h. Cry2 speckle formation was induced after irradiation with blue light (5 µmol m -2 s-1) for 1 min or after successive scanning with the 488-nm laser of a confocal laser-scanning microscope(IX70; Olympus Corp). To examine GFP fluorescence, we scanned samples with a 488-nm argon laser line using a 550-nm (FVX-BA550RIF) barrierfilter and ×60 1.4 NA PlanApo oil-immersion objective. RFP signal was examined with a 568-nm krypton laser using an FVX-BA585IF filter. Normalized fluorescence emission spectrum of GFP (Fd) (provided by G. Patterson and D. Piston, Vanderbilt Univ., Nashville, Tennessee) and absorption spectrum of DsRFP (provided by Clontech) were used to calculate GFP–RFP spectral overlap (J da) and Förster distance (R0) according to the equations (CITATION) : and where ε is the molar extinction coefficient of RFP; φd is the quantum yield for GFP; n is the refractive index; and κ 2 is the dipole orientation factor. FRET signals were examined by excitation with the 488-nm argon laser and subsequent detection of cry2–RFP using a FVX-BA585IF filter. Single fluorophore imaging allowed adjustments of the threshold settings and background subtractions to reduce the levels of crosstalk between the channels. To measure FRET signals by acceptor photobleaching, a pre-bleached phyB–GFP image was acquired, and the fluorescent intensity in a region of interest of 4 µm in diameter was recorded using the software provided by the manufacturer (Fluoview). Cry2–RFP fluorescence was then photodestroyed by repeated scanning with the 568-nm laser line. A second post-bleach image of phyB–GFP in the same region of interest was acquired. After corrections for changes in image registration (CITATION) , the fluorescent intensities of the two phyB–GFP images (pre- and post-bleached) were compared. PhyB–GFP speckles that did not colocalize with cry2–RFP and colocalization of non-fused GFP and RFP were similarly processed.
