!~ABS~! D-type cyclins (CycD) play key roles in linking the Arabidopsis cell cycle to extracellular and developmental signals, but little is known of their regulation at the post-transcriptional level or of their cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) partners. Using new antisera to CycD2 and CycD3, we demonstrate that the CDK partner of these Arabidopsiscyclins is the PSTAIRE-containing CDK Cdc2a. Previous analysis has shown that transcript levels of CycD2 and CycD3are regulated in response to sucrose levels and that both their mRNA levels and kinase activity are induced with different kinetics during the G1 phase of cells reentering the division cycle from quiescence (CITATION). Here we analyze the protein levels and kinase activity of CycD2 and CycD3. We show that CycD3 protein and kinase activity parallel the abundance of its mRNA and that CycD3 protein is rapidly lost from cells in stationary phase or following sucrose removal. In contrast to both CycD3 and the regulation of its own mRNA levels, CycD2 protein is present at constant levels. CycD2 kinase activity is regulated by sequestration of CycD2 protein in a form inaccessible to immunoprecipitation and probably not complexed to Cdc2a. 
!~RES~! For analysis of Arabidopsis CycD cyclin proteins, rabbit antibodies were generated against full-length CycD2 protein and against a CycD3 C-terminal peptide. To verify that these antisera specifically detect the intended proteins, they were used to probe Western blots ofArabidopsis whole cell extract (WCE) and in vitrotranslated (IVT) radiolabeled CycD2 and CycD3; the antibody probes were used both directly and in competition with the relevant purified CycD2 protein or CycD3 peptide (Fig.1 A). The CycD2 antibody detected IVT CycD2 protein of ∼46 kDa and a protein of the same size in WCE. Neither were detected when the antibody was preincubated with purified CycD2 protein. Similarly, the CycD3 antibody detected IVT CycD3 and a protein of the same size (∼60 kDa) from the WCE, and these bands were not detected after preincubation of the antibody with purified CycD3 peptide. No cross-reactivity was observed between the CycD2 and CycD3 antisera (not shown). These results were confirmed by immunoblots of plants overexpressing CycD2 or CycD3, in which a stronger signal was observed (not shown).  [[FIGURE]] The quantitative immunoprecipitation of CycD2 and CycD3 by these antibodies was demonstrated by the recovery of IVT CycD2 and CycD3 (Fig. 1 B). Native CycD2 and CycD3 were then immunoprecipitated from WCE of an exponential phase culture. The resultant immunoprecipitates were assayed for histone H1 kinase activity to verify the presence of active CycD-CDK complexes. Both CycD2 and CycD3 immunoprecipitates phosphorylate histone H1 (Fig.1 C). The phosphorylation of 2–4 other proteins of 90–120 kDa present in WCE was also observed, and these may represent endogenous substrates that have coimmunoprecipitated with CycD2 and CycD3. In addition, a protein of about 60 kDa is phosphorylated in CycD3 immunoprecipitates, which may be a result of autophosphorylation of CycD3 protein (CITATION, CITATION).  In mammalian and Drosophila cells, D-type cyclins interact with the non-PSTAIRE CDK4 and (in mammals) CDK6. However, no direct plant homologues of these CDKs have been identified, although plants contain two main groups of CDKs (CITATION, CITATION). These are represented by the Arabidopsis PSTAIRE CDK Cdc2a and the PPTALRE CDK Cdc2b. To establish the CDK partners ofArabidopsis CycD2 and CycD3, the cyclins were immunoprecipitated from exponentially growing cells, and eluants were analyzed by protein gel blotting using antisera raised againstArabidopsis Cdc2a and Cdc2b (Fig.2). Cdc2a was detected in eluants from both CycD2 and CycD3 immunoprepitates, but Cdc2b did not coimmunoprecipitate with either cyclin. We conclude that Cdc2a is anin vivo partner of both CycD2 and CycD3 inArabidopsis cells, but Cdc2b is not.  [[FIGURE]] CycD proteins probably play key roles in activating cell division during development, so the presence of CycD2 and CycD3 was examined during Arabidopsis vegetative development (Fig. 3 A). CycD2 levels are lower in 4-day seedlings but are subsequently present at a constant level in whole seedling/plant extracts (5–17 days), whereas CycD3 is present at similar levels from 4 to 14 days but subsequently declines at 17 days. In contrast, the kinase partner Cdc2a is present at a constant level in these protein extracts. The distribution of the protein between roots and shoots was examined in 9-day seedlings. CycD2 is primarily expressed in the shoot, although a weak signal was detected in root extract (Fig. 3 B), while CycD3 was detected less readily than D2 and primarily in the root. In floweringArabidopsis plants, CycD2 was more abundant in leaves and stem and detectable at a lower level in flowers but appeared to be absent from root extracts. In contrast, CycD3 was present only in the root, where it was detected weakly.  [[FIGURE]] Levels of CycD2 and CycD3 were examined throughout the growth cycle from samples taken on consecutive days after subculture. This culture reaches maximum cell density after 6 days (CITATION). The level of CycD2 remained fairly constant throughout the growth cycle, compared with CycD3 which decreased dramatically after 6 days, corresponding to the onset of stationary phase (Fig.4 A). CycD3 is therefore present only in cells from actively dividing cultures.  [[FIGURE]] Previous analysis has shown the dependence of CycD2 andCycD3 gene expression on sucrose availability (CITATION). To measure the response of CycD2 and CycD3 protein levels and kinase activity to the removal of such growth stimulation signals, sucrose was removed from an exponentially growing (3-day) cell culture, and samples were taken at specific times (Fig. 4B). CycD2 protein levels remained relatively constant, but CycD3 protein levels decreased rapidly with ∼90% of CycD3 being degraded within 2 h of sucrose removal. Longer exposures of this blot show that low levels of CycD3 persist for at least 7 h, but by 24 h CycD3 is almost undetectable (Fig. 4 B). In contrast to CycD2mRNA, CycD2 protein levels are constant following sucrose removal, whereas CycD3 protein rapidly declines in abundance. The abundance of Cdc2a and Cdc2b proteins after removal of sucrose remained constant for at least 24 h (Fig. 4 B).  When the kinase activity of immunoprecipitations was examined in a similar experiment, a somewhat different pattern was observed. In contrast to the constant abundance of CycD2 protein, CycD2-associated kinase activity started to decline within 4 h of sucrose removal and by 24 h was reduced by more than 50%. CycD3 kinase activity decreased to 50% of its original level within 4 h and then declined more gradually up to 24 h. However, although CycD3 protein was almost undetectable after 24 h, there was still one-third of the kinase activity observed in the exponentially growing cells. This may suggest that much of the early decline in CycD3 levels may be due to a reduction of cyclin not associated with active kinase complexes.   Arabidopsis cells deprived of sucrose for 24 h resume division and show a relatively synchronous entry into S phase when sucrose is readded (CITATION, CITATION).CycD2 and CycD3 mRNA levels decline after sucrose removal and increase after readdition. CycD2mRNA increases within 1 h of sucrose addition, whereasCycD3 mRNA accumulates only after 4 h, corresponding to late G1 phase. To examine the abundance of CycD2 and CycD3 proteins and their associated kinase activity as cells reenter the cell cycle, early stationary phase (7-day) cells were prepared by removing sucrose from the growth medium for 24 h, and then the levels of D-type cyclins (Fig.5 A) and kinase activity of their immunoprecipitations (Fig. 5 B) were observed after sucrose was readded. CycD2 was present at relatively high levels in stationary phase cells before (data not shown) and after sucrose removal. CycD3 was present at a low level before (data not shown) sucrose removal and absent after 24 h without sucrose, consistent with results observed after sucrose removal from an exponentially growing cell culture (Fig. 4 B). Fig. 5 A shows that in samples taken every hour after sucrose readdition, CycD2 remains at a constant level. During this time, cells progress through G1, reaching S phase after 6 h (CITATION, CITATION). CycD3 protein was absent in early G1 cells but started to accumulate rapidly at 4–5 h in late G1, coincident with the increase in CycD3 mRNA (CITATION, CITATION). The abundance of Cdc2a, the CDK partner of CycD2 and CycD3, was constant during this experiment.  [[FIGURE]] The kinase activities of CycD2 and CycD3 were examined in a separate experiment (Fig. 5 B) and showed that despite the constant protein abundance of CycD2, its associated kinase activity is strongly regulated, being very low after sucrose removal and increasing within 2 h of sucrose readdition, as previously reported (CITATION). CycD2 kinase activity continues to increase up to 24 h after sucrose readdition, despite no change in protein abundance (Fig.5 B). In contrast, CycD3 kinase activity starts to increase only after 4 h and largely reflects mRNA levels and protein abundance during G1/S phase, although a further increase in kinase activity is seen in cells 24 h after sucrose addition (Fig.5 B). We conclude that CycD2 is subject to strong post-translational regulation.  The experiments described above show that CycD2 protein abundance remains constant in actively dividing and nondividing Arabidopsissuspension cells, although CycD2-associated kinase activity is only found in actively dividing cells. To analyze the nature of this post-translational regulation, we first examined whether the CDK partner is present. Both CycD2 and Cdc2a were found in quiescent cells (prepared as for the cell cycle reentry experiment) as well as exponentially growing cells, although Cdc2a levels were lower than in exponentially growing cells (Fig.6 A). However, the differences in the kinase activity of the CycD2-Cdc2a complex were marked between the two growth phases, and almost no activity was present in quiescent cells (Fig. 6 A).  [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether the lack of kinase activity in quiescent cells was due to the inability of CycD2 and Cdc2a to interact, CycD2 was immunoprecipitated from both quiescent and exponentially growing cells to identify if similar amounts of Cdc2a were coimmunoprecipitated. The amount of Cdc2a coimmunoprecipitated in quiescent cell extract was much lower (Fig. 6 B, c), suggesting that the interaction between Cdc2a and CycD2 was inhibited in the quiescent state. However, reprobing these blots with CycD2 antibody (Fig.6 B, g) showed that the quantity of CycD2 protein immunoprecipitated from quiescent cell extract was much lower than from exponential cell extract although CycD2 was equally abundant in quiescent cells (Fig. 6 A). Thus, anti-CycD2 antiserum efficiently immunoprecipitates CycD2 from exponential cell extract but not from quiescent cells, a result that was observed in several repeated experiments. From this experiment, it is therefore impossible to determine whether CycD2 and Cdc2a are associated in quiescent cells, since CycD2 is not immunoprecipitated.  To determine whether this inefficient immunoprecipitation is a feature of quiescent cell extract or particular to CycD2, Cdc2a was immunoprecipitated directly from quiescent and exponentially growing cells, and the eluates were immunoblotted with the same antiserum (Fig.6 C, c and d). Cdc2a was immunoprecipitated in proportion to its abundance (Fig. 6 A) from cells in both phases of growth, suggesting that the inefficient immunoprecipitation of CycD2 in quiescent cells was a behavior specific to CycD2. The eluted Cdc2a immunoprecipitates were immunoblotted with anti-CycD2 antiserum (Fig. 6 C, a andb). CycD2 was efficiently coimmunoprecipitated by the anti-Cdc2a antiserum from exponential cells (Fig. 6 C,a) but not from quiescent cells (Fig. 6 C,b). This demonstrates that the majority of CycD2 present in quiescent cells is not associated with Cdc2a; nor, as we show in Fig.6 B, is it accessible for immunoprecipitation by the CycD2 antiserum.  We also noted that the small amount of CycD2 immunoprecipitated from quiescent cells by the CycD2 antiserum (Fig. 6 B,g) and the amount of CycD2 coimmunoprecipitated by the Cdc2a antiserum (Fig. 6 C, b) is a similar proportion of the equivalent immunoprecipitations from exponential cells (compare Fig. 6 B (g) with Fig. 6 B(f), and compare Fig. 6 C (b) with Fig.6 C (a)). Moreover, the ratio between the amount of Cdc2a coimmunoprecipitated by the CycD2 antiserum from quiescent and dividing cells (Fig. 6 B, c and b) is similar to the ratio of the CycD2 directly immunoprecipitated from the same extracts (Fig. 6 B, g and f). Taken together, this suggests that the CycD2 that was immunoprecipitated was interacting with Cdc2a and therefore that there is a correlation between the availability of CycD2 for immunoprecipitation and its ability to associate with Cdc2a. 
!~MM~! Suspension cultures of Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Landsbergerecta (CITATION, CITATION) were maintained as previously described (CITATION). For cell cycle reentry experiments, quiescent cells were prepared from cultures 7 days after the previous subculture; the cells were washed and subcultured into MS medium with hormones and all supplements except sucrose. After 24 h, sucrose was added to the culture, and time point samples were taken as the cells reentered the cell cycle (CITATION, CITATION). Similarly, for cell cycle exit experiments, 3-day (exponential culture growth phase) cells were harvested and replaced in MS medium containing hormones and all supplements except sucrose, and samples were taken at specified times. Arabidopsis seedlings (Landsbergerecta) were grown in liquid medium as previously described (CITATION). Plants were grown to flowering at 22 °C in 16 h of light in a growth room.  Polyclonal rabbit antisera were raised against full length Arabidopsis CycD2 expressed with a 6-histidine tag in Escherichia coli and againstArabidopsis CycD3 C-terminal peptide MRGAEENEKKKPILHLPWAIVATP by the antibody facility at the Babraham Institute. Antiserum against a common C-terminal peptide found in Arabidopsis Cdc2b and in its tobacco homologue CdkB1 has been described (data not shown) and antiserum against Arabidopsis Cdc2a was produced using the C-terminal peptide ARAALEHEYFKDLGGMP at the Babraham Institute. Procedures for protein extraction, SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, Western blot analysis, immunoprecipitations, and histone H1 protein kinase assays have been described (CITATION, CITATION). Antiserum was used at 1:1000 dilution and incubated with Western blots overnight at room temperature. For competition of the antisera with CycD3 peptide or CycD2 protein, the appropriate antiserum was incubated with CycD3 peptide (at a concentration of 1 μm) or CycD2 protein (40 μg of E. coli-expressed CycD2) for 1 h at 37 °C before probing the Western blot.   CycD2 and CycD3cDNAs were cloned into pET23 (Novagen, Madison, WI), and proteins were produced using a T7 coupled transcription-translation rabbit reticulocyte lysate expression system with incorporation of [35S]methionine (Promega, Madison, WI). 
