!~ABS~! E2F/DP complexes play a pivotal role in the regulation of the G1/S transition in animals. Recently, plant E2F homologs have been cloned, but DP-related sequences have not been identified so far. Here we report that Arabidopsis thaliana contains at least two different DP-related genes, AtDPa and AtDPb. They exhibit an overall domain organization similar to that of their animal counterparts, although phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that they form a separate subgroup. AtDPs efficiently heterodimerize in vitro with the Arabidopsis E2F-related proteins, AtE2Fa and AtE2Fb through their dimerization domains. AtDPa and AtE2Fa are predominantly produced in actively dividing cells with highest transcript levels in early S phase cells.
!~RES~! Previously, we have cloned two Arabidopsis E2F-related cDNA clones (AJ294534 and AJ294533). They share the highest homology to each other and to other recently identified plant E2Fs (tobacco NtE2F CITATION, wheat TmE2F CITATION, and carrot DcE2F CITATION). The domain organization of the two AtE2Fs is analogous to other E2Fs including the DNA-binding domain, dimerization domain, marked box, and putative Rb-binding motif (data not shown). Based on their sequential features, we could not classify them as either animal E2F1–3 or E2F4/5 homologs, therefore we named them AtE2Fa and AtE2Fb. The observed high conservation in the heterodimerization domains of the plant E2F homologs indicated that they could interact with plant DP-related proteins, which prompted us to try to identify their dimerization partners using the yeast two-hybrid strategy. Because the full-length AtE2Fa and AtE2Fb sequences could not be used as baits, due to self-activation, only parts of the proteins were utilized (see CITATION). The two AtE2F baits were used in a functional screening of the Arabidopsis cDNA library generated from cell suspensions. The screening with pGBTE2Fb-Rb resulted in the identification of a positive clone that turned out to be the AtE2Fb itself. The pGBTE2FaBD screen yielded a clone containing an approximately 1.1 kb cDNA insert showing considerable homology with animal DP sequences. The full-length cDNA of AtDPa isolated by rapid amplification of 5′ cDNA ends encoded a protein of 292 amino acids with predicted molecular mass of approximately 33 kDa. The 5′ non-translated region contained a stop codon in-frame with a putative initiator methionine, indicating that the clone was full-length. In parallel with this work, we attempted to isolate DP-related cDNA clones using a PCR-based method. Primers were designed based on the conserved regions of partial plant DP-related expressed sequence tag sequences from the databank (see CITATION). After sequence determination of the PCR-amplified inserts, it appeared that a distinct Arabidopsis DP homologous protein AtDPb had been identified. While the work was in progress, we found an Arabidopsis clone (AL162751) that contained the same sequence as our PCR fragments. We used the databank sequence to amplify the full-length AtDPb. It contained an open reading frame of 385 amino acids. Pairwise comparison of the protein sequences encoded by the Arabidopsis clones with animal DP sequences showed that AtDPa was slightly more closely related to the human DP-2 protein (approximately 30.5%) than to the human DP-1 (approximately 29.7%), while the closest homolog of AtDPb is HuDP-1 (approximately 32%). However, phylogenetic analysis revealed that the two AtDPs did not group with either the DP-1 or DP-2 subfamilies, but rather formed a separate branch (CITATION ). Additionally, the overall amino acid identity between the Arabidopsis DPs is much lower (approximately 35%) than the identity between the animal DP-1 and DP-2 proteins (approximately 60–70%). Alignment analysis with human HuDPs revealed that both Arabidopsis proteins exhibit an overall domain organization close to that of animal DPs (CITATION). The most conserved region was in the DNA-binding domain and a significant degree of conservation was also found within the dimerization domains. A small region of sequence similarity between the Arabidopsis DPs and E2Fs can be found in the second half of this domain (CITATION). The C-terminal part of AtDPs also contained the homologous, so-called downstream element, whose function is unknown CITATION. In contrast to mammalian DP-1 and DP-2, both Arabidopsis DP-related proteins were shorter in their C-terminal ends, especially the AtDPa (CITATION) and neither of them contained a small sequence region with high proportion of acidic amino acids CITATION. Interestingly, a potential NLS could be found in the N-terminal region of both AtDPs (KKKR or KKKK in AtDPb; amino acid residues 86–89 or 87–90, respectively, and PVRRKLIV in AtDPa amino acid residues 26–32) (CITATION). However, neither of the AtDPs contained a region homologous to the E domain of HuDP-2, which had been found responsible for the nuclear localization of this DP protein CITATION. Surprisingly, the potential NLS motif of the AtDP-2 as well as that of AtE2Fb was very similar to the cyclin A/CDK2-binding sites of human E2F1–3, which also includes the NLS site (CITATION) CITATION. Additionally, AtDPa, but not AtDPb, contained two consensus sites for CDK phosphorylation at its amino-terminal end (CITATION), suggesting a regulatory role for plant CDKs in the function of this DP protein. As a first step in comparing the biochemical properties of AtDPa and AtDPb, we tested their ability to heterodimerize with AtE2Fa and AtE2Fb. For this purpose, we used the coupled in vitro transcription–translation system in which the c-myc-tagged AtDPa or AtDPb was co-expressed with the HA-tagged AtE2Fa or AtE2Fb. One part of each sample was resolved by SDS–PAGE (CITATION , upper), while another part was subjected to immunoprecipitation with monoclonal anti-c-myc antibodies (CITATION, lower). In the absence of DP proteins, no AtE2F2a or AtE2F2b was precipitated by the anti-c-myc antibodies (data not shown; CITATION, lane 1). However, both HA-AtE2F proteins co-precipitated reproducibly with c-myc-tagged AtDPa (CITATION, lanes 1 and 2) and AtDPb (CITATION, lanes 3 and 4). Identical results were obtained in a reciprocal experiment with anti-HA monoclonal antibodies (data not shown). These data revealed that both Arabidopsis DP-related proteins interacted in vitro with the different Arabidopsis E2F-related proteins. The obtained results were confirmed by two-hybrid interaction analysis. pGBTE2FaBD and pGBTE2Fb-Rb were co-transformed in an appropriate yeast reporter stain with a plasmid producing the full-length AtDPa or AtDPb protein fused to the GAL4 transactivation domain. The specific reconstitution of GAL4-dependent gene expression measured as the ability to grow in the absence of histidine confirms the interaction between the two DP and E2F proteins (CITATION ). The conserved dimerization domain of the AtE2Fs seemed to be important for the interaction with the AtDPs, because mutational analysis showed that deletion neither of the N-terminal extension nor the C-terminal part of AtE2Fa and AtE2Fb impaired the interaction with the DPs (CITATION, lower). Similar results were obtained by two-hybrid analysis (CITATION). To test whether the structural requirements for heterodimerization of the AtDPs were similar to those of their animal homologs, we constructed several deletion mutants of AtDPa and AtDPb (for a schematic illustration, see CITATION ), tagged with the c-myc epitope (CITATION, upper). The interactions between the mutant AtDPs and AtE2Fb were analyzed in immunoprecipitation experiments with the specific anti-HA or anti-c-myc antibodies (CITATION, middle and lower, respectively). As shown in CITATION, mutant AtDP proteins with deleted DNA-binding domain could bind sufficiently to the co-translated HA-AtE2Fb proteins (CITATION, lane 2, and CITATION, lane 2). No detectable interaction was found between the AtE2Fb protein and mutant DP proteins containing the complete DNA-binding domain, but lacking the putative dimerization domain (CITATION, lane 3; CITATION, lane 4). Thus, the N-terminal part of both AtDP proteins, including the conserved DNA-binding domain, was not sufficient for the in vitro interaction to occur. In contrast, a mutant form of AtDPb (amino acids 1–263) could bind to AtE2Fb (CITATION, lane 3), indicating that the region of AtDPb between amino acids 182 and 263 was required for interaction with AtE2Fb. To confirm this hypothesis, a deletion mutant of AtDPb (182–263) was constructed and, as expected, it could bind to AtE2Fb (CITATION). The requirement for the homologous dimerization domain of AtDPa for the interaction with AtE2Fb was supported by a binding assay in which the mutant AtDPa172–292, with the N-terminal part of the dimerization domain deleted, failed to bind to AtE2Fb (CITATION, lane 4, middle and lower). However, when we tested the E2F-binding activity of the predicted dimerization domain of the AtDPa (amino acid positions 121–213), no interaction could be detected between this region and the AtE2Fb protein (CITATION, lane 5). These data indicate that other carboxyl-terminal regions of AtDPa are required for the stable interaction with AtE2Fb. It is worth mentioning that the analogous region of human DP-1 had been mapped to associate with E2F1, but additional C-terminal sequences were needed for the high-affinity binding CITATION. The identification of the AtDPa in a yeast two-hybrid screen as a gene encoding an AtE2Fa-associating protein suggests that it might act cooperatively in the plant cells as a functional heterodimer. To strengthen this hypothesis, we investigated whether both genes were co-regulated at the transcriptional level. Tissue-specific expression analysis revealed that both genes were clearly up-regulated in flowers and were very strongly transcribed in actively dividing cell suspension cultures (CITATION ). Expression in these tissues could be a sign for the correlation between the actual proliferation activity of a given tissue and the transcript accumulation, as can be seen from the Arath;CDKB1;1 gene. AtDPa transcripts were also detectable in leaf and, to a lesser extent, in root and stem tissues, whereas AtE2Fa transcripts were virtually undetectable in roots and stem with only slight levels of expression in leaf tissues. Cell cycle phase-dependent gene transcription was studied using an Arabidopsis cell suspension that was partially synchronized by the sequential treatment with aphidicolin and propyzamide (see CITATION). The Arabidopsis histone H4 and the Arath;CDKB1;1 gene were included to monitor the cell cycle progression (CITATION) CITATION. Bearing in mind the partial synchronization of the culture, it can be observed that histone H4 transcript levels peaked immediately after the removal of the inhibitor and decrease gradually thereafter (CITATION). The opposite expression pattern could be observed for the Arath;CDKB1;1 gene, illustrating that cells entered the G2-M phases with partial synchrony. Within this experimental setting, the AtDPa and the AtE2Fa genes show a very similar expression pattern. Both exhibit higher transcript accumulation before the peak of histone H4 gene expression and quickly decay in the following samples (CITATION). The similarity in the expression patterns of Arabidopsis AtDPa and AtE2Fa supports the possibility that they act cooperatively as a heterodimer during the S phase.
!~MM~! For library screening, vectors and strains (HF7c) were provided with the Matchmaker two-hybrid system (Clontech). The dimerization and DNA-binding domains of the AtE2Fa (amino acids 226–356) were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and subcloned in-frame with the GAL4 DNA-binding domain of pGBT9 (Clontech) to create the bait plasmid pGBTE2FaBD. Screens were performed as described previously CITATION. A second library screening was performed with the AtE2Fb construct (pGBTE2Fb-Rb) lacking the Rb-binding domain (amino acids 1–385). Plasmids from interacting clones were isolated and sequenced. For the yeast two-hybrid interaction experiments, a number of yeast two-hybrid prey (in pAD-GAL424) plasmids were created by PCR amplification of fragments from the AtDPa (DPa1–292, DPa1–142, DPa42–142, DPa42–292, DPa121–292, DPa121–213, and DPa172–292) and AtDPb (DPb1–385, DPb1–193, DPb182–263, and DPb182–385) genes and confirmed by sequencing. Different combinations between bait (pGBTE2FaBD, pGBTE2Fb-Rb, or pGBTE2Fb1–127) and prey constructs were transformed into yeast cells and assayed for their ability to grow on His− minimal media after 3 days of incubation at 30°C. Bait plasmids co-transformed with empty pAD-GAL424 and prey plasmids co-transformed with empty pGBT9 were assessed along as controls for the specificity of the interaction. Based on available sequence data of putative plant DP-related partial clones from the databank (soybean DP (AI939068), tomato DP (AW217514), and cotton DP (AI731675)), three oligonucleotides, corresponding to the most conserved part of the DNA-binding and E2F heterodimerization domains (MKVCEKV, LNVLMAMD and FNSTPFEL), were synthesized and designated A (ATAGAATTCATGAAAGTTTGTGAAAAGGTG), B (ATAGAATTCCTGAATGTTCTCATGGCAATGGAT) and C (ATAGGATCCCAGCTCAAAAGGAGTGCTATTGAA), respectively. PCR was performed on an Arabidopsis/yeast two-hybrid suspension culture cDNA library. The PCR products were purified, digested with EcoRI and BamHI, and ligated into pCR-XL-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). The cloned inserts were sequenced by double-stranded dideoxy sequencing. Influenza hemagglutinin (HA)-tagged versions of the wild-type and mutant AtE2Fa and AtE2Fb were constructed by cloning into the pSK plasmid (Stratagene) containing the HA-tag (kindly provided by L. Bakó, Szeged, Hungary). The AtE2F mutants, namely AtE2Fa1–420, AtE2Fa162–485, and AtE2Fb1–385, were obtained by PCR and cloned into the EcoRI and BamHI sites of HA-pSK. The c-myc-tagged versions of wild-type and AtDP mutants (AtDPa1–292, AtDPa121–292, AtDPa1–142, AtDPa172–291, AtDPa121–213 and AtDPb1–385, AtDPb182–385, AtDPb1–263, AtDPb1–193, and AtDPb182–263) were generated by PCR and cloned into the EcoRI and PstI sites of the pBluescript plasmid (Stratagene) containing a double c-myc tag. All cloning steps were carried out according to standard procedures, and the reading frames were verified by direct sequencing. In vitro transcription and translation experiments were performed using the TNT T7-coupled wheat germ extract kit (Promega) primed with appropriate plasmids for 90 min at 30°C. For immunoprecipitation, 10 μl of the total in vitro translated extract (50 μl) was diluted at 1:5 in Nonidet P40 buffer (50 mM Tris, pH 7.4, 150 mM NaCl, 1% Nonidet P40, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 10 μg/ml leupeptin/aprotinin/pepstatin) and incubated for 2 h at 4°C with anti-c-myc (9E10; BabCo) or anti-HA (16B12; BabCo) antibodies. Protein-A-Sepharose (40 μl 25% (v/v)) was added and incubated for 1 h at 4°C, then the beads were washed four times with Nonidet P40 buffer. Immune complexes were eluted with 10 μl 2×sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) sample buffer and analyzed by 10% or 15% SDS–PAGE and by autoradiography. A. thaliana (L.) Heynh. cell suspension cultures were maintained as described previously CITATION. The cells were partially synchronized by the consecutive addition of aphidicolin (5 μg/ml) and propyzamide (1.54 μg/ml). The aphidicolin block was left for 24 h. The cells were washed for 1 h in B5 medium before the addition of propyzamide. Samples were taken at the end of the 24 h aphidicolin block, at the end of a 1 h washing step, and at 1, 2, 3, and 4 h after the addition of propyzamide to the culture medium. Total RNA was isolated from the Arabidopsis cell suspension culture according to Magyar et al. CITATION and with the Triazol reagent (Gibco/BRL) from different organs. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR amplification was carried out on reverse-transcribed mRNA, ensuring that the amount of amplified product stayed in linear proportion to the initial template present in the reaction. 10 μl from the PCR was transferred onto Hybond-N+ membrane, hybridized to fluorescein-labeled gene-specific probes (GeneImages random prime labeling module; Amersham Pharmacia Biotech), detected with the CDP-Star detection module (Amersham), and visualized by short exposure to Kodak X-OMAT autoradiography film. The following primer pairs (forward and reverse) were used for the amplification: 5′-ATAGAATTCATGTCCGGTGTCGTACGA-3′ and 5′-ATAGGATCCCACCTCCAATGTTTCTGCAGC-3′ for AtE2Fa (AJ294533); 5′-ATAGAATTCGAGAAGAAAGGGCAATCAAGA-3′ and 5′-ATACTGCAGAGAAATCTCGATTTCGACTAC-3′ for AtDPa (AJ294531); 5′-GCCACTCTCATAGGGTTCTCCATCG-3′ and 5′-GGCATGCCTCCAAGATCCTTGAAGT-3′ for Arath;CDKA;1 (X57839); 5′-GGGTCTTGGTCGTTTTACTGTT-3′ and 5′-CCAAGACGATGACAACAGATACAGC-3′ for Arath;CDKB1;1 (X57840); 5′-ATAAACTAAATCTTCGCTGAA-3′ and 5′-CAAACGCGGATCTGAAAAACT-3′ for histone H4 (M17132); 5′-TCTCTCTTCCAAATCTCC-3′ and 5′-AAGTCTCTCACTTTCTCACT-3′ for ROC5 (AtCYP1, U072676) CITATION; 5′-CTAAGCTCTCAAGATCAAAGGCTTA-3′ and 5′-TTAACATTGCAAAGAGTTTCAAGGT-3′ for actin 2 gene (U41998) CITATION.
