!~ABS~! The use of mass spectrometry to characterize the phosphorylome, i.e. the constituents of the proteome that become phosphorylated, was demonstrated using the reversible phosphorylation of chloroplast thylakoid proteins as an example. From the analysis of tryptic peptides released from the surface ofArabidopsis thylakoids, the principal phosphoproteins were identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry. These studies revealed that the D1, D2, and CP43 proteins of the photosystem II core are phosphorylated at their N-terminal threonines (Thr), the peripheral PsbH protein is phosphorylated at Thr-2, and the mature light-harvesting polypeptides LCHII are phosphorylated at Thr-3. In addition, a doubly phosphorylated form of PsbH modified at both Thr-2 and Thr-4 was detected. By comparing the levels of phospho- and nonphosphopeptides, the in vivo phosphorylation states of these proteins were analyzed under different physiological conditions. None of these thylakoid proteins were completely phosphorylated in the steady state conditions of continuous light or completely dephosphorylated after a long dark adaptation. However, rapid reversible hyperphosphorylation of PsbH at Thr-4 in response to growth in light/dark transitions and a pronounced specific dephosphorylation of the D1, D2, and CP43 proteins during heat shock was detected. Collectively, our data indicate that changes in the phosphorylation of photosynthetic proteins are more rapid during heat stress than during normal light/dark transitions. These mass spectrometry methods offer a new approach to assess the stoichiometry of in vivo protein phosphorylation in complex samples. 
!~RES~! Previous studies with spinach and pea chloroplast thylakoids showed that the primary sites for phosphorylation involve polypeptide regions exposed to the outer surface of the membranes (CITATION, CITATION). To enrich for these regions, thylakoid membranes were purified from chloroplasts isolated from Arabidopsis leaves and then “shaved” with trypsin to release surface-exposed peptides from the various constituent proteins (Fig.1 A). Although a variety of proteins were digested, several proteins and/or protein domains that we presume were protected by the membrane remained intact. LC-ESI MS analyses of the released fraction revealed approximately a thousand major peptides liberated by this protease treatment. By using the characteristic decomposition products of phosphopeptides following the breakdown of phosphoryl-peptide linkages as a signature (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), numerous phosphopeptides were identified. We enriched for phosphopeptides by immobilized metal [Fe(III) and/or Ga(III)] affinity chromatography (IMAC) (CITATION, CITATION). Because the binding specificity and elution properties of Fe(III) and Ga(III) IMAC differ, both were used to isolate a range of phosphopeptides (see Table I). Although nonphosphorylated peptides were also present in the eluted fractions, the partial purification of phosphopeptides by IMAC greatly simplified their identification and initial analysis.  [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] During MALDI-TOF-MS, phosphopeptides lose phosphoric acid as H3PO4 (98 Da) and HPO3 (80 Da) with the concomitant production of metastable ions (CITATION). Whereas both the metastable and parent phosphopeptide ions arrive at the detector simultaneously and thus produce one coherent signal in the linear mode, they generate separate signals in the reflector mode, with the metastable ions arriving sooner than the parent ion. The appearance of this metastable ion is especially evident for peptides containing phosphoserine and phosphothreonine, which generate intense daughter signals upon losing H3PO4 (98 Da) (CITATION). In our experimental settings, these metastable ions actually appeared as ions 86 m/z rather than 98 m/zsmaller than the parent ions (Fig. 1 B). This difference was a result of the metastable ion flying out of focus from the ion mirror, a phenomenon that also led to a broad ion signal that is characteristic of an ion lacking isotope resolution (Fig. 1 B).  From the analysis of a series of synthetic phosphopeptides (see “Experimental Procedures”), we found that all generated this metastable ion peak in the reflector mode regardless of the amino acid sequence or position of the phosphoserine or phosphothreonine residue.2 In fact, doubly phosphorylated peptides produced two metastable ions in the reflector mode, 86 m/z and 172 m/zsmaller than the parent ion. We could reliably detect these metastable ions with as little as femtomole amounts of these synthetic phosphopeptides, indicating that they could be detected with high sensitivity. Thus, we exploited the presence of metastable signal in the reflector mode at −86 m/z and its unique shape as a reliable indicator for phosphopeptides.  Using this metastable ion signature, numerous phosphopeptides were detected by MALDI-TOF MS in the IMAC-enriched fractions of peptides released from thylakoids of light-adapted plants. As an example, Fig. 1shows the MALDI-TOF MS detection of a single ion cluster at 1355.6m/z in the linear mode (Fig. 1 C) that behaved as two ion clusters in the reflector mode, one for the parent ion at 1355.6 m/z and another for the metastable ion at 1269.6 m/z, which was 86m/z smaller and devoid of isotope resolution (Fig. 1 B). By this approach we detected eight phosphopeptides abundant in the IMAC-enriched fractions (Table I). In several cases, we also detected these phosphopeptides in the crude trypsin hydrolysates before IMAC enrichment. As shown in Fig. 1,D and E, the metastable 1269.6m/z ion for the 1355.6 parent ion was readily detected in the reflector mode but absent in the linear mode.  The thylakoid phosphopeptides identified by MALDI-TOF MS were sequenced using MALDI-TOF PSD, ESI MS/MS, and LC with online ESI-skimmer CID MS. MALDI-PSD MS of the 1355.6 m/z phosphopeptide identified its sequence as Ac-TLFNGTLALAGR (Fig.2 A). A search of theArabidopsis protein sequence data base revealed that this sequence belonged to the chloroplast-encoded CP43 subunit of PSII, assuming that the first 14 amino acids of the initial translation product were removed and the resulting N-terminal threonine residue was acetylated. Because the phosphate moiety is readily lost from phosphopeptides during MALDI-TOF-MS, we used complementary ESI-CID MS sequencing to unambiguously identify the phosphorylation site(s). The most efficient method was the ESI-skimmer CID MS when used online with LC separation of IMAC-enriched peptides. Fig. 2 B shows the mass spectrum containing mostly y (C-terminal) andb (N-terminal) ion fragments of the N-terminal phosphopeptide from CP43. The fragmentation pattern was consistent with the N-terminal threonine being both N-acetylated andO-phosphorylated.  [[FIGURE]] The LC with online ESI-skimmer CID MS also revealed the presence of an unexpected isoform of CP43 in which the amino acid at position 4 was aspartic acid not asparagine (Fig. 2 C). This aspartate isoform was found in all thylakoid preparations isolated from plants under a variety of conditions and comprised ∼15% of the total CP43 pool. Given that the Arabidopsis CP43 gene encodes asparagine at this position (CITATION), it is likely that this isoform was created by a deamidation reaction, the nature of which is currently unknown.  By similar analysis, we determined the sequence of the seven other phosphopeptides and identified the corresponding proteins in theArabidopsis sequence data bases (Table I). Besides CP43, the D1 and D2 proteins of the PSII reaction center were identified and found to also contain an N-terminal threonine that was bothN-acetylated and O-phosphorylated. We identified two phosphopeptides that corresponded to the mature LHCII polypeptides phosphorylated at the Thr-3 (Table I). One represented the expected tryptic fragment (TPVAKPK) whereas the other was two amino acids longer and N-acetylated (Ac-RKTPVAKPK). The second form likely represented an incomplete digestion product caused by the phosphate at Thr-3 blocking trypsin cleavage after Lys-2. The PsbH protein of PSII was phosphorylated at Thr-2. Notably, we also found a doubly phosphorylated form of this peptide containing a second phosphate bound to Thr-4 (Fig. 2 D and Table I). The doubly phosphorylated form of PsbH was also detected in spinach thylakoids, suggesting that its presence is widespread in higher plants.2  To study the phosphorylation state of these principalArabidopsis thylakoid proteins in different physiological conditions, we developed an ESI MS method to compare the levels of the phospho and nonphospho forms for each. First, we determined the LC elution positions of the eight phosphopeptides present in the complete tryptic peptide mixtures without IMAC enrichment. This LC separation did not completely resolve these complex mixtures but did make spectrometric identification of separate peptide ions in each fraction possible (Fig. 3 A). Following LC, the peptides were detected online by ESI-MS and their masses were determined from full scan data in the positive-ion mode. Phosphopeptides were concurrently identified by switching to the negative-ion mode every 6 s; this mode led to peptide fragmentation and production of ions of −79 m/z, which are diagnostic for PO (CITATION, CITATION). By simultaneous analysis in the positive-ion mode and single −79m/z ion monitoring in the negative-ion mode, the LC retention times of all thylakoid phosphopeptides described in TableI were determined (Fig. 3, A and B). The intensity of the −79 m/z ion signal depended on the nature of a parent phosphopeptide and its propensity to decompose. For example, the −79 m/z signals produced by fragmentation of N-terminal phosphothreonines of D1, D2, and CP43 peptides were more intense as compared with the internal phosphothreonine from the LHCII and PsbH phosphopeptides (Fig.3 B). We could also detect this set of phosphopeptides in the negative-ion mode, using the characteristic fragmentation ions of −97m/z(H2PO ) and −63m/z (PO ). However, these signals appeared less specific for phosphate than −79m/z and gave higher noise during LC-ESI MS, thus reducing their reliability.2 The intensity of ionic species detected by MS depends on the nature of a particular peptide and its ionization properties. Consequently, quantitative comparisons of different peptides is generally not allowed. However, because phosphorylation of a peptide adds just 80m/z (HPO3) and does not change the ionization state of the peptide under acidic conditions, quantitation of a phosphopeptide relative to its parent peptide could be possible using LC-ESI MS in the positive-ion mode. In this approach, the total peptide mixture (without IMAC enrichment) is separated by LC and the phosphopeptides and peptides then are detected in the same run by ESI MS. Because both forms would be detected simultaneously in the same sample, the stoichiometry of phosphorylation could be measured for individual proteins. To test this approach, we subjected equimolar ratios of six different synthetic phosphopeptides and their corresponding dephospho forms (see “Experimental Procedures”) to LC-ESI MS. Under our LC conditions, the phosphopeptides eluted ∼1 to 2 min earlier than the dephospho-forms, which simplified detecting the ions derived from the dephosphorylated forms. In all cases, the sum of the peak intensities of each phosphopeptide ionic species determined by ESI MS in the positive-ion mode was near equal to that of the dephosphorylated peptide.2  Using this semi-quantiative MS method, we determine the stoichiometry of phosphorylation for D1, D2, CP43, PsbH, and LHCII under several physiological conditions (Table II). Following the in vivo or in vitro treatments, the thylakoids were shaved by trypsin and the amount of the resulting peptides and phosphopeptide ions were measured following LC by ESI MS in the positive-ion mode. For the D1, D2, and CP43 peptides (Table I), the level of phosphorylation was expressed in percent after dividing the intensities of phosphopeptide ions by the sum of the intensities for both phospho- and nonphosphopeptide ions. For PsbH, the intensities of the single and double phosphopeptide ions were divided by the sum of the intensities for both the phosphopeptide and nonphosphopeptide ions. The alternative proteolysis of phospho-LHCII polypeptides precluded the objective quantitation of the total ion pool (see above and Table I). Instead, the amount of each phosphopeptide ion (TPVAKPK and AcRKTPVAKPK) was normalized relative to the amount of the corresponding nonphosphorylated peptide ion (TVAKPK) in each preparation. Thus, the data for LHCII phosphorylation reflected changes in the level of phosphorylation for these polypeptides rather than the stoichiometry of their phosphorylation.  [[TABLE]] As a first test, we isolated thylakoids by a conventional protocol from plants either grown in continuous light or in continuous light followed by a 48-h dark-adaptation. The basal level of endogenous phosphorylation for D1, D2, CP43, LHCII, and PsbH was then measured by LC-ESI MS. None of the PSII proteins (D1, D2, CP43, and PsbH) were found to be completely phosphorylated or dephosphorylated in either preparation (Table II). The only exception was the doubly phosphorylated form of PsbH, which was absent in tissue harvested after dark adaptation. This result provided an initial indication that light is not strictly required for phosphorylation of these PSII proteins as had been previously proposed (reviewed in Refs. CITATION and CITATION). However, for the LHCII polypeptides, these long-term light/dark treatments did significantly affect their phosphorylation state. Whereas a substantial portion of the LHCII pool was phosphorylated in the light-grown samples, the phosphorylated forms were undetectable after an extended dark adaptation (Table II).  Previous in vitro studies with spinach thylakoids, using either 32P labeling and/or phosphoamino acid antibodies, showed that heat appears to cause a rapid dephosphorylation of PSII core proteins D1, D2, and CP43, presumably by a heat-activated phosphatase (CITATION). Here, we demonstrated a similar effect forArabidopsis thylakoids by MS. Isolated thylakoid membranes were incubated in the light with or without a 15-min exposure to 40 °C and then the associated peptides were released by trypsinization. MS analysis of the released fraction revealed a significant dephosphorylation of the PSII reaction center proteins D1, D2, and CP43 after exposure to 40 °C. This was observed as a dramatic decrease in the phosphopeptide ion intensities as compare with those from their nonphosphorylated forms (Fig. 3, C andD, and Footnote 2). In contrast, the levels of LHCII and PsbH phosphopeptides were unaffected by this heat treatment.2 Collectively, these data imply that a heat-activated phosphatase is also present in Arabidopsisthylakoid membranes. Because only the PSII core proteins were dephosphorylated, we suggest that this phosphatase prefers substrates bearing N-terminalN-acetyl-O-phosphothreonines.   In vitro 32P labeling of pea and spinach thylakoids showed that light rapidly stimulates the phosphorylation of both LCHII proteins and the components of PSII (CITATION, CITATION). To measure the extent of this reaction by MS, we prepared intact chloroplasts or thylakoid membranes from dark-adapted Arabidopsis plants, added inorganic phosphate or ATP, respectively, and then initiated the kinase reaction by irradiating the preparations with white light for 10 to 20 min. Studies with spinach and pea thylakoids indicated that this kinase reaction is complete by this time (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), although more recent studies with Arabidopsis thylakoids suggested that additional time is required for completion (CITATION). LC-ESI MS quantitation of the resulting phosphopeptides revealed that these short light treatments had little effect on the stoichiometry of phosphorylation for the D1, D2, CP43, LHCII, and PsbH proteins; light increased the amount in the phosphorylated form by only a few percent over that observed for the protein from dark-adapted plants without the in vitro light treatment.2 As a result, these well characterized in vitro kinase reactions may reflect only a small fraction of that which occurs in vivo.  By LC-ESI MS, we then attempted to quantitate the in vivochanges in phosphorylation state of the D1, D2, CP43, LHCII, and PsbH proteins when the Arabidopsis leaves were subjected to several environmental conditions. In an attempt to more effectively capture the phosphorylated forms, we developed a method to rapidly prepare thylakoid membranes directly from Arabidopsisleaves. It involved collecting a crude chloroplast preparation by centrifugation, osmotic shock to release the thylakoid membranes, and then enrichment of the membranes by sucrose step gradient centrifugation. All buffers contained 50 mm phosphate and 10 mm NaF to inhibit endogenous phosphatases. Previous studies showed that these levels of inhibitors used singly are sufficient to completely block most, if not all, protein phosphatases in thylakoid preparations from spinach and various other plants species (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). The thylakoid protein patterns prepared by this method were identical to those prepared conventionally (Figs.1 A and 4 A). Moreover, the LC-ESI MS analysis revealed similar levels of phosphorylation for the five phosphoproteins prepared from light-adapted samples (Table II). The only major change was an enrichment of the doubly phosphorylated form of PsbH and a concomitant reduction in the singly phosphorylated form using the new method.  [[FIGURE]] For the environmental analysis, the Arabidopsis plants were grown in a 16-h light/8-h dark photoperiod and then harvested: 1) at the end of the 8-h dark period; 2) 4 h into the 16-h light period; 3) 4 h into the light period followed by a 30-min dark treatment; and 4) 4 h into the light period followed by a 15-min heat shock at 40 °C (Table II). After harvest, thylakoids were prepared and the shaved peptides were subjected directly to LC-ESI MS. As an example, the MS spectra of the fractions containing the D1 phospho- and nonphosphopeptides and the influence of the four treatments on their signal intensities are shown in Fig. 4,B and C. As can be seen in Table II, the phosphorylation states of all five proteins were not radically altered by any of the treatments. A modest decrease in LHCII phosphorylation and slight decreases in D1, D2, and CP43 phosphorylation were evident in the dark period as compared with the light period. However, this change was not yet evident after a 30-min dark adaptation, suggesting that the kinetics of this dephosphorylation is slow. The only major light-dependent change was for PsbH, which revealed a near complete loss of the doubly phosphorylated form when the plants were transferred to darkness. This response was rapid, being complete within 30 min of transfer. A significant decrease in phosphorylation of D1, D2, and CP43 was evident upon heat shock, but was much less pronounced than that observed in vitro (see above). Collectively, the data indicate that none of the principal phosphoproteins in theArabidopsis thylakoids are completely phosphorylated or nonphosphorylated under normal photoperiodic growth conditions. They also suggest that significant and rapid changes in the overall phosphorylation state of the photosynthetic complexes may occur in heat-stressed plants. 
!~MM~!  A. thaliana ecotype Columbia-0 was grown at 21 °C either in soil or on 0.7% (w/v) agar containing one-half strength MS media (Life Technologies, Inc.). Plants were irradiated with 100 μmol m−2 s−1 of white light provided by fluorescent lights with a photoperiod of 16-h light/8-h dark. Chloroplasts and thylakoids were prepared from 3-week-old plants. Chloroplasts were extracted from the leaves and purified by Percol gradient centrifugation according to Ref. CITATION. To isolate thylakoids, the chloroplasts were resuspended in 7 ml of 10 mm sodium phosphate (pH 7.5), 5 mm MgCl 2, 5 mm NaCl, and homogenized 10 times in a Potter grinder. The homogenate was diluted to 30 ml with the same buffer and thylakoids were collected by centrifugation for 5 min at 4000 ×g.  For direct preparation of thylakoids, 5 g of leaves were homogenized with a Polytron (Brinkmann PT 10/35) in 25 ml of ice-cold extraction buffer, containing 300 mm sorbitol, 50 mm sodium phosphate (pH 7.5), 5 mmMgCl2, 10 mm NaF. The suspension was filtrated through four layers of Miracloth and centrifuged for 3 min at 1500 × g. The pellet was resuspended in 7 ml of lysis buffer (10 mm sodium phosphate (pH 7.5), 5 mmMgCl2, 1 0 mm NaF) and homogenized 10 times in a Potter grinder. The suspension was diluted to 30 ml with the lysis buffer and centrifuged for 5 min at 4000 × g. The pellet was resuspended in 3 ml of the extraction buffer with the Potter grinder and layered on the top of a sucrose step gradient, containing (bottom to top): 10 ml of 1.8 m, 10 ml of 1.3m, and 10 ml of 0.5 m sucrose in 50 mm sodium phosphate (pH 7.5) and 10 mm NaF. After centrifugation in a swinging bucket rotor for 15 min at 5000 × g, the thylakoid fraction was collected from the 1.3m, 1.8 m sucrose interface. Thylakoids were diluted to 25 ml with extraction buffer and collected by a 5-min centrifugation at 4000 × g. The thylakoid pellet was resuspended in 1 ml of 25 mmNH4HCO3 (pH 8.0), 10 mm NaF, and pelleted again using a microcentrifuge.  Chloroplasts (0.2 mg of chlorophyll) were gently resuspended in 1 ml of 20 mmTricine (pH 8.0), 330 mm sorbitol, 6.6 mmMgCl2, 1 mm Na2HPO4 and incubated at 22 °C. Phosphorylation was induced by a 10–20 min irradiation with 100 μmol m−2 s−1 of white light and terminated by addition of 10 ml of ice-cold 20 mmTricine (pH 8.0), 5 mm Na 4EDTA, 10 mm NaF. Thylakoids were prepared from chloroplasts as described above. When isolated thylakoids were used, they were resuspended in 20 mm Tricine (pH 8.0), 100 mmsorbitol, 5 mm MgCl2, 1 mm ATP and irradiated as described above.  Isolated thylakoids were washed twice with 25 mm NH4HCO3 (pH 8.0), 10 mm NaF by centrifugation and resuspension in the same buffer to a concentration of 1.3–1.5 mg of chlorophyll/ml. The suspension was incubated with sequencing-grade modified trypsin (Promega) (8 μg of trypsin/mg of chlorophyll) at 22 °C for 90 min. The digestion products were frozen, thawed, and clarified at 14,000 ofg. The supernatant containing released thylakoid peptides was collected. Similar peptides were collected from spinach thylakoids as described (CITATION).  Phosphopeptides were affinity enriched from the thylakoid peptide fraction by chromatography with immobilized Fe(III) or Ga(III) columns (CITATION, CITATION). Typically, columns containing 50 μl of chelating Sepharose Fast Flow (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) beads were washed with 0.3 ml of water, 0.3 ml of 0.1% (v/v) acetic acid, charged with 0.3 ml of 0.1m FeCl3 or GaCl3, and washed with 0.5 ml of 0.1% (v/v) acetic acid. Thylakoid peptides (0.2–0.3 ml) were mixed with an equal volume of 20% acetic acid and loaded onto the columns. After washing twice with 0.2 ml of 0.1% (v/v) acetic acid, bound phosphopeptides were eluted with 300 μl of either 20 mm sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) (for Fe(III) (CITATION)), or 20 mm of nonbuffered Na2HPO4 (for Ga(III) (CITATION)).  Synthetic phosphopeptides included: APRTpPGGRR; CDGVTTKTpTAGTPD, CDGVTTKTpFAGTPD, LIPQQSpINEAIK, DRHDSGLDSpNKDE, DRHDSpGLDSpNKDE, CDRHDSpGLDSpNKDE, and GRPRTTSpFAE (where Tp and Sp indicate phosphothreonine and phosphoserine, respectively). To obtain the corresponding dephosphopeptides, 0.25 nmol of each phosphopeptide were dissolved in the phosphatase buffer (25 mmNH4HCO3 (pH 8.0), 10 mmMgCl2, 2 mm dithiothreitol) and incubated for 2 to 24 h at 37 °C with the addition of 1 to 5 units of alkaline phosphatase (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA). The extent of dephosphorylation was monitored by MALDI-TOF MS.  Samples were prepared by mixing 1–2 μl of each mixture with 1–2 μl of α-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid dissolved in 70% (v/v) acetonitrile with 2% (v/v) trifluoroacetic acid. One μl of final mixture was spotted on the target. Linear and reflector mass spectra were recorded using Biflex III MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer (Bruker, Billerica, MA) operated in delayed extraction mode using an accelerating voltage of 19 kV. Spectra were calibrated externally. Post-source decay (PSD) spectra were recorded using Bruker's FAST procedure.  Peptide mixtures were separated on 5 μm of C18 MetaChem 150 × 1.0-mm column at a flow rate 20 μl/min. A gradient of 0.1% (v/v) formic acid in water (A) and 0.1% (v/v) formic acid in acetonitrile (B) was distributed as follow: 0% B in first 3 min; 0–20% B in 3 to 20 min; 20–70% B in 20 to 105 min; 70–99% B in 105 to 115 min. The online detection with positive/negative-ion mode switching was performed using an API 365 triple quadrupole MS with a standard ionspray source (Applied Biosystems/MDS Sciex, Foster City, CA). Each 5.2-s positive-ion scan in the m/z range from 320 to 1800 was followed by a 0.7-s pause for polarity switching and 1.5-s single ion-monitoring of negative 79 and another 0.7-s pause to return to positive-ion mode. In the positive-ion mode, ion source, orifice, and ring voltages were set at 5 kV, 12 V, and 140 V, respectively, to minimize fragmentation. However, in some cases a small amount of nonphosphorylated ion species was generated from the phosphopeptide by partial skimmer-induced fragmentation (see Fig. 3 C, for example). In the negative-ion mode, the ion source, orifice and ring voltages were set at −4.5 kV, −200 V, and −300 V, respectively, to maximize the phosphoryl-79 signal.  [[FIGURE]] For skimmer collision-induced dissociation (CID), the ion source, orifice, and ring voltages were set at 5 kV, 95 V, and 200 V, respectively, to maximize peptide fragmentation. Sequencing of high performance liquid chromatography-purified peptides was performed by tandem MS/MS using conditions recommended by Applied Biosystems/MDS Sciex (Foster City, CA). 
