!~ABS~! Vacuolar H + -PPase, a membrane bound proton-translocating pyrophosphatase found in various species including plants, some protozoan and prokaryotes, has been demonstrated to be localized to the vacuolar membrane in plants. Using a GUS reporter system and a green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein, we investigated the tissue distribution and the subcellular localization, respectively, of a novel type H + -PPase encoded by AVP2/AVPL1 identified in the Arabidopsis thaliana genome. We showed that AVP2/AVPL1 is highly expressed at the trichome and the filament of stamen. Furthermore, the fluorescence of GFP-tagged AVP2/AVPL1 showed small dot-like structures that were observed throughout the cytoplasm of various Arabidopsis cells under a fluorescent microscope. The distribution of this dot-like fluorescent pattern was apparently affected by a treatment with brefeldin A. Moreover, we demonstrated that most dot-like fluorescent structures colocalized with a Golgi resident protein. These findings suggest that this novel type H + -PPase resides on the Golgi apparatus rather than the vacuolar membrane.
!~RES~! We investigated the tissue distribution of AVP2/AVPL1 expression by using a promoter–GUS reporter system. Approximately 1.4 kb and 0.4 kb 5′-upstream regions of the AVP2/AVPL1 gene were transcriptionally fused to the GUS reporter gene and these reporter constructs were stably introduced into A. thaliana . No obvious staining differences were observed between 1.4 kb and 0.4 kb promoter–reporter constructs (data not shown). In young seedlings, cotyledons and roots were more strongly stained than young rosette leaves ( CITATION ). In rosette leaves, trichomes were extensively stained ( CITATION ). Trichome is a huge single cell that is highly vacuolated CITATION . In flowers, sepals and stamen filaments were strongly stained, although the anther was hardly stained ( CITATION ). Stamen filaments develop rapidly with cell enlargement at the final stage of floral development CITATION . This staining pattern suggested that the expression of type-II H + -PPase is up-regulated during cell expansion. The expression pattern of AVP2/AVPL1 was different from that of AVP1 especially in anther. AVP1 is strongly expressed in pollen, but is not expressed in stamen filaments (Mitsuda et al., unpublished data). To examine the subcellular localization of type-II H + -PPase, we expressed the GFP-tagged type-II H + -PPase in Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells and in transgenic plants. GFP was fused to the N-terminus (GFP-AVP2) or C-terminus (AVP2-GFP) of type-II H + -PPase. In the cells expressing GFP-AVP2, bright clear small dot-like fluorescent structures were observed throughout the cytoplasm under a fluorescent microscope ( CITATION ). AVP2-GFP also produced the same fluorescent pattern, but with much lower fluorescent intensity than GFP-AVP2 ( CITATION ). Thereafter, we decided to use GFP-AVP2 for the following experiment. Although we can not rule out the possibility that the type-II H + -PPase is localized to the dot-like structures due to an influence of GFP fusion, the identical fluorescent pattern of GFP-AVP2 and AVP2-GFP suggests that the localization of both fusion proteins reflects that of the authentic protein. In the transient expression condition, occasionally, GFP fluorescence was observed in the vacuolar lumen (data not shown). This inside-vacuolar staining pattern implies that the vacuole is the final destination of GFP-AVP2 in a transient condition, and we merely observed the transition to the final destination. However, the same fluorescent dot-like structures were observed in the transgenic plant carrying GFP-AVP2 ( CITATION ), suggesting that this dot-like fluorescent pattern indicates the precise localization of the GFP-AVP2 not dependent on the expression condition. At a higher magnification, some doughnut-shaped or horseshoe-shaped structures were observed in part of the dot-like fluorescent spots ( CITATION ). Furthermore, some of these dot-like fluorescent organelles were wiggling or moving along cytoplasmic streaming (data not shown). These features are unique characteristics of the plant GA CITATION . However, in plant cells, there are some other dot-like organelles such as mitochondria CITATION , chloroplast and peroxisome CITATION visualized by GFP fluorescence of the localized proteins. To rule out the possibility that the GFP-tagged type-II H + -PPase is localized to these organelles, we compared the GFP fluorescence with some fluorescent markers of these organelles. As shown in CITATION , there is no merged fluorescence of the GFP and Mito-Tracker, which is a fluorescent dye that selectively stains mitochondria. Furthermore, to investigate the chloroplast localization of the protein, we also performed a transient analysis in protoplasts of mesophyll cells isolated from rosette leaves, since suspension-cultured cells have no mature chloroplasts. As in the suspension-cultured cell, dot-like fluorescent patterns were observed throughout the cytoplasm, and never merged with chlorophyll autofluorescence ( CITATION ). We investigated the effect of BFA treatment on the localization of the GFP-tagged type-II H + -PPase. BFA is a fungal antibiotic that specifically blocks the anterograde protein transport from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the GA and results in redistribution of Golgi resident proteins into the ER CITATION . In plant cells, this reagent also affects GA structure and the distribution of Golgi resident proteins although some differences from mammalian cells were observed CITATION . We followed the morphological change of the fluorescent pattern of GFP-tagged type-II H + -PPase after the addition of BFA. After 2 h incubation at a concentration of 100 μg/ml BFA, the dot-like fluorescent structures disappeared and some aggregated structures ( CITATION ), and/or network-like structure ( CITATION ) emerged in most cells. The oval-shaped structure seemed to be the ‘BFA compartment’ reported previously CITATION . Although we did not determine whether the network-like structure is ER or not, it is apparent that the distribution of dot-like fluorescent organelle is affected by BFA treatment. These data indicate that dot-like fluorescent organelle is apparently BFA sensitive, suggesting that the dot-like fluorescent structure is a GA. We probed the Arabidopsis GA with anti-RGP1 antibodies raised against the trans -Golgi localized reversibly glycosylated polypeptide (RGP1) of pea, because pea and Arabidopsis have a similar amino acid sequence of RGP1 CITATION . In suspension-cultured cells transiently expressing the GFP-AVP2, the most GFP fluorescence was merged with the fluorescence marked by the RGP1 antibody ( CITATION ). This strongly indicates that the dot-like fluorescent organelle is the GA. Therefore, we conclude that type-II H + -PPase is localized to the GA. Indeed, the existence of H + -PPase in GA has been demonstrated by measuring the PPi-dependent proton pumping activity CITATION and by detecting immunologically CITATION . V-type H + -ATPase is actually distributed to the plant GA membrane CITATION . Matsuoka et al. CITATION reported that the acidic environment generated by Golgi resident V-ATPase is important for the sorting of soluble vacuolar proteins. It is likely that the type-II H + -PPase functions as an H + pump of GA in combination with GA resident V-ATPase for generating the acidic environment. The signals responsible for the subcellular localization of both H + -PPases remain to be identified. The GFP-tagged type-II H + -PPase may be a useful tool for investigating the Golgi retention mechanism of multi-transmembrane protein in plant cell.
!~MM~! CaMV35S-sGFP (S65T)-NOS3′/pUC18 vector CITATION was kindly provided from Y. Niwa. The vector pMAT137, which is a derivative of pMAT037 CITATION , was kindly provided from K. Matsuoka. For GUS reporter analysis, the 5′-upstream region of the AVP2/AVPL1 gene was amplified by a PCR with the following primers. AVPLF: 5′-AAGGATCCCCTCTGTTTGTATTGTCCTA-3′ and AVPLR: 5′-AAGGATCCCATCATGTTTTGAGCTGAAT-3′ were used to amplify the 1.4 kb region. AVPLD: 5′-AAGGATCCTTAGTCGATTAGATCTTGAG-3′ and AVPLR were used to amplify the 0.4 kb region. Amplified fragments were subcloned into the Bam HI site of binary vector pBI101.1. The construct GFP-AVP2 was generated by a PCR amplification from A. thaliana cDNA library using a set of primers, LNBSR: 5′-AATGTACAAGGGAGGTGGAGGTATGATGATGGATGAAGATGTTGAGCA-3′ and LCBSR: 5′-AATGTACATCAGAGGAAAACCGGAGCCA-3′. The amplified DNA fragment was sequenced and was subcloned into the Bsr GI site of CaMV35S-sGFP (S65T)-NOS3′/pUC18 vector. The resultant plasmid was designated as GFP-AVP2/pUC18 and was used for transient analysis. The construct AVP2-GFP was generated by a PCR amplification using LNXBA: 5′-AATCTAGAATGATGATGGATGAAGATGT-3′ and LCXBA: 5′-AATCTAGATCAGAGGAAAACCGGAGCCA-3′. The amplified fragment was subcloned into CaMV35S-sGFP (S65T)-NOS3′/pUC18 vector with the Xba I site. The resultant plasmid was designated as AVP2-GFP/pUC18 and used for transient analysis. For Agrobacterium -mediated stable transformation, the Xba I– Eco RI fragment of GFP-AVP2/pUC18 was subcloned into pMAT137 with the Xba I/ Eco RI sites. The resultant plasmid was used for stable transformation. All constructs for stable transformation were introduced into Agrobacterium C58C1 Rif r strain CITATION by electroporation using a Bio-Rad Gene Pulser II. Fully developed Arabidopsis was subjected to Agrobacterium -mediated transformation by an in planta vacuum infiltration method CITATION . The harvested seeds were screened on Murashige–Skoog (MS) agar plates containing 50 μg/ml kanamycin and 50 μg/ml carbenicillin. GUS assays were carried out using at least 16 genetically independent transgenic plants of the T1 or T2 generation by the method described by Jefferson et al. CITATION with some modification. Briefly, the plant tissues were incubated for 12 h at 37°C in a 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) containing 0.1% Triton X-100, 1 mM X-gluc and 0.5 mM potassium ferricyanide, 0.5 mM potassium ferrocyanide. The stained tissues were bleached by several replacements with 70% ethanol. The Arabidopsis cell line was kindly provided from Masaaki Umeda. A suspension culture was established from callus tissues obtained from root segments of A. thaliana ecotype Col-0 and maintained as described CITATION . The plasmid DNA was introduced into Arabidopsis suspension cultured cells by the method described by Takeuchi et al. CITATION . In the case of leaf mesophyll protoplast, 5 g of fully developed rosette leaves were collected and cut in bulk in distilled water. Cut leaves were incubated in 500 mM mannitol for 1 h. Then, the leaf fragments were transferred to 60 ml of a buffer containing 400 mM mannitol, 1% cellulase, 0.25% macerozyme, 8 mM CaCl 2 and 5 mM Mes (pH 5.7), and incubated for 2.5 h. The procedure for transient expression in leaf mesophyll cell protoplasts was identical to the method for the suspension culture described above. For visualization of mitochondria, GFP-expressing suspension-cultured cells were incubated in MS medium containing 0.4 M mannitol and 50 nM Mito-Tracker Red CM-XRos (Molecular Probes, Inc.) for 15 min. Cells were washed twice with MS medium and observed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). BFA was solved in methanol at a concentration of 10 mg/ml as a stock. The suspension-cultured cells expressing the GFP-AVP2 were incubated in MS medium containing 0.4 M mannitol and 0, 1, 10 or 100 μg/ml BFA, respectively. Methanol in the reaction was adjusted to the same concentration (1% v/v) in each experiment. The change of fluorescence was observed by CLSM. Immunofluorescent staining was performed as described by Paris et al. CITATION with some modifications. Protoplasts prepared from suspension-cultured Arabidopsis cells or leaf mesophyll tissue were fixed at room temperature for 20 min in a fixation buffer containing 3.7% formaldehyde, 5 mM EGTA, 50 mM potassium phosphate (pH 7.0) and 3% mannitol. Cell adherence to coverslips was improved by pretreatment of coverslips with 1% poly- L -lysine (Sigma). Cell membranes were permeabilized by a 5 min treatment in 0.5% Triton X-100. Prior to incubation with the primary antibodies, non-specific sites were blocked by 1% bovine serum albumin (BSA) in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) for 30 min. Each antibody was diluted in 0.25% BSA, 0.25% gelatin, 0.05% Nonidet P40, and 0.02% Na azide in PBS and incubated with cells for 1 h at room temperature. Between incubations, the cells were washed for 30 min in buffer alone. The fluorescent images were observed using a Zeiss Pascal-5 confocal laser microscope. GFP was excited by 488 nm Ar laser. Mito-Tracker Red, chlorophyll autofluorescence and rhodamine were excited by 534 nm green He–Ne laser.
