!~ABS~! Although light is the ultimate substrate in photosynthesis, it can also be harmful and lead to oxidative damage of the photosynthetic apparatus. The main target for light stress is the central oxygen‐evolving photosystem II (PSII) and its D1 reaction centre protein. Degradation of the damaged D1 protein and its rapid replacement by a de novo synthesized copy represent the important repair mechanism of PSII crucial for plant survival under light stress conditions. Here we report the isolation of a single‐copy nuclear gene from Arabidopsis thaliana, encoding a protease that performs GTP‐dependent primary cleavage of the photodamaged D1 protein and hence catalysing the key step in the repair cycle in plants. This protease, designated DegP2, is a homologue of the prokaryotic Deg/Htr family of serine endopeptidases and is associated with the stromal side of the non‐appressed region of the thylakoid membranes. Increased expression of DegP2 under high salt, desiccation and light stress conditions was measured at the protein level.
!~RES~! The DegP/Htr family in Prokaryota, including cyanobacteria from which chloroplasts derive, consists of three serine‐type endopeptidases: DegP (also named HtrA), DegQ (also named HhoA) and DegS (also named HtrH or HhoB) (CITATION; CITATION). Recently, a homologue of the cyanobacterial DegP protease was identified in chloroplasts of Arabidopsis and pea (this protease is designated here as DegP1) and shown to be associated with the lumenal side of the thylakoid membranes (CITATION). BLAST searches of the Arabidopsis database with the conserved amino acid region of the Deg/Htr protease family from the cyanobacteria Synechocystis sp. strain PC6803 revealed the presence of another highly conserved homologue of the DegP/HtrA protease. We named this protein DegP2 (for second DegP described from higher plants). A gene located on chromosome 2 of Arabidopsis (DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank accession No. AC005309, protein identity AAC63648) is predicted to encode the DegP2 protein. We designed primers based on the predicted genomic sequence of DegP2 and used PCR to amplify DegP2 cDNA from an Arabidopsis cDNA library. The DegP2 cDNA sequence contained an 1821 bp open reading frame (ORF) encoding a protein composed of 607 amino acids (relative molecular mass 66.8 kDa). Alignment of the deduced amino acid sequences revealed that the overall sequence similarity of DegP2 and DegP1 to cyanobacterial Deg/Htr proteases was 44 and 48–51%, respectively. A comparison of the conserved regions of DegP2 and DegP1 from Arabidopsis and homologous proteases of the Deg/Htr family from Synechocystis is shown in FIG-REF. Three amino acids, serine (S), histidine (H) and aspartic acid (E), involved in the catalytic activity (catalytic triad) of serine proteases from the Deg/Htr family (CITATION) are present in DegP2 at highly conserved positions. The predicted DegP2 protein possesses an N‐terminal transit peptide (amino acids 1–69), typical for proteins imported into plastids, and two strongly conserved domains (FIG-REF). A catalytic domain specific for serine proteases of the trypsin type was found between amino acids 144 and 282, and a 65 amino acid residue repeat, called the PDZ domain, between amino acids 308 and 373. The PDZ domain in Eukaryota has generally been accepted as a protein–protein interaction site, and the same function was proposed for Prokaryota (CITATION). Hydropathy plots revealed that the mature DegP2 in Arabidopsis is predominantly a hydrophilic protein with a molecular mass of 60 kDa and has no predicted membrane‐spanning domains but a short hydrophobic segment located at the C‐terminus (amino acids 440–450). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the copy number of the DegP2 gene in Arabidopsis, genomic DNA was isolated, digested by restriction endonucleases and hybridized to DegP2 cDNA. Independently of the stringency of hybridization, a single band was detected (FIG-REF). This indicated that the DegP2 gene exists at a single locus in the Arabidopsis genome. In order to explore the proteolytic nature of DegP2, we produced DegP2 protein in a bacterial overexpression system as a fusion protein with its C‐terminus attached to a His tag. The proteolytic activity of an Escherichia coli cell extract with overexpressed DegP2 and the fractions containing recombinant DegP2 purified by affinity chromatography were tested on a non‐specific protease substrate, gelatine (FIG-REF). As negative controls, an E.coli cell extract without recombinant DegP2 (FIG-REF) and an E.coli cell extract with an overexpressed non‐proteolytic protein, the class 1a metallothionein (not shown), were analysed on activity gels under the same experimental conditions. The results revealed (FIG-REF, lower panel) that fractions containing overexpressed DegP2 were able to degrade gelatine in the region of DegP2 migration. A weaker proteolytic band visible in DegP2‐containing fractions might represent an autodegradation product of DegP2. Although several proteolytic activities were visible in control fractions (not shown), the absence of gelatine degradation in the region corresponding to DegP2 migration (FIG-REF) proved that the measured proteolysis was mediated by recombinant DegP2 protease. [[FIGURE]] The presence of conserved catalytic amino acids in the DegP2 sequence (FIG-REF) suggested that this enzyme is a serine endopeptidase of the trypsin type. To confirm this prediction experimentally, we performed in vitro studies with protease inhibitors (FIG-REF). The degradation of gelatine in activity gels by overexpressed DegP2 was completely arrested or strongly reduced in the presence of serine protease inhibitors such as 3,4‐dichloroisocoumarin (DCI), aprotinin or phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF). Inhibitors directed against cysteine‐, aspartic‐ or metallo‐endopeptidases did not significantly influence the proteolytic activity of DegP2. To examine the subcellular location of DegP2, we raised a polyclonal antibody against the recombinant protein. Fractionation of isolated intact chloroplasts into stroma, thylakoid membrane and thylakoid lumen, followed by immunoblot analysis of these fractions revealed that the vast majority of the DegP2 protease was associated with the thylakoid membranes and only residual amounts were detected in the stroma fraction (FIG-REF). The presence of DegP2 in the stroma might result from contamination of this fraction with small membrane fragments that did not sediment during centrifugation. These results are consistent with the location predicted from the DegP2 protein presequence. Further fractionation of the thylakoid membranes into appressed and non‐appressed membrane regions using differential centrifugation and aqueous polymer two‐phase partition (CITATION) demonstrated that 80–90% of this enzyme was present in the stroma lamellae and 10–20% in fractions enriched in the non‐appressed regions of grana stacks consisting of grana margins and end grana membranes (FIG-REF). The distribution of subunit A from the PSI reaction centre (PSI‐A) and the D1 protein was in accordance with previously published data (CITATION). Whilst the vast majority of the D1 protein was detected in the grana region, the majority of the PSI‐A was found in the stroma lamellae (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether DegP2 protease is a peripheral or an integral membrane protein, the isolated thylakoid membranes were washed with salt to release extrinsic membrane proteins. Extraction of DegP2 with 0.5 M NaCl or 0.5 M CaCl2 from the thylakoids indicated that this protease is a peripheral membrane protein (FIG-REF, upper panel). Furthermore, the presence of DegP2 in the NaCl supernatant suggested that this protein is associated with the stromal side of the membranes. As a reference, the fractionation pattern of the 33 kDa protein from the oxygen‐evolving complex (PsbO) of PSII is shown (FIG-REF, lower panel). The PsbO is a peripheral membrane protein located at the lumenal side of the thylakoid membrane (CITATION). It was demonstrated that PsbO is easily extracted from the membrane with 1 M CaCl2 but not with 1 M NaCl (CITATION). The topology of DegP2 within the thylakoid membranes was verified further by its susceptibility to added trypsin (FIG-REF, right panel). Incubation of the isolated thylakoid membranes with trypsin led to digestion of DegP2, demonstrating that this protein was not protected by the lipid bilayer and was thus accessible to trypsin attack. In contrast, PsbO was protected against tryptic digestion (FIG-REF, left panel). It was reported that heat shock treatment led to increased expression of E.coli DegP/HtrA (CITATION), human HtrA2 (CITATION) and Arabidopsis DegP1 (CITATION). To test the effect of various stresses on expression of the DegP2 gene, the leaves of Arabidopsis were exposed to cold stress, heat shock, high salt, desiccation, oxidative stress, UV‐A radiation and light stress, and the level of DegP2 transcript and protein was assayed by northern (FIG-REF) or western blotting (FIG-REF), respectively. As a control, the leaves were exposed to ambient light and temperature conditions, and the amount of DegP2 transcript and protein expressed under these condition was used as a reference. Only traces of DegP2 transcript and protein were detected after exposure of leaves to elevated temperatures and treatment with H2O2. The amount of DegP2 transcript was also reduced after exposure of leaves to salt stress or desiccation (FIG-REF). In contrast, the amount of DegP2 protein in the thylakoid membranes was enhanced 2‐ to 4‐fold under the latter two conditions as compared with the control sample. In addition, the light stress treatment promoted the accumulation of DegP2 in the thylakoid membrane (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Since the degradation of the D1 protein following photoinhibition is catalysed by a membrane‐bound serine‐type protease (CITATION), it was of interest to assess the physiological target of DegP2 protease. Addition of His‐tagged purified DegP2 to isolated thylakoid membranes, whose endogenous proteolytic activities were inhibited by heating, resulted in the specific disappearance of a 32 kDa membrane protein, as verified by SDS–PAGE and Coomassie Blue staining (not shown). The 32 kDa protein band was not influenced when control E.coli extract was added to the reconstitution assay (not shown). To determine the identity of the 32 kDa protein, immunoblotting analyses using a polyclonal antibody against the D1 protein were performed. The band degraded during the reconstitution with purified recombinant DegP2 was identified as the D1 protein of the PSII reaction centre (FIG-REF, left panel). The immunoblotting also detected the typical N‐terminal 23 kDa proteolytic fragment of the D1 protein (CITATION). The corresponding C‐terminal 10 kDa proteolytic fragment (CITATION) was not recognized by the D1 antibodies used. Immunoblotting with antibodies against Lhcb2, the α‐subunit of the F1 ATPase and purified total PSI (CITATION) demonstrated that the level of these proteins in the thylakoid membranes did not change significantly in the presence of DegP2 (FIG-REF, right panel). This confirms the selectivity of DegP2 proteolysis. [[FIGURE]] The DegP/HtrA protease in E.coli was reported to have a molecular chaperone function at low temperatures while having a proteolytic activity at elevated temperatures (CITATION). It was demonstrated that below 22°C, bacterial DegP/HtrA was proteolytically inactive. To test whether DegP2 in higher plants shows a similar behaviour, the reconstitution assays were performed at 4 and 37°C in the presence or absence of recombinant DegP2. The results (FIG-REF) revealed that in the presence of purified DegP2, the D1 protein was degraded at both temperatures but the 23 kDa proteolytic fragment was detected only in assays performed at 4°C. This fragment was missing in assays carried out at 37°C, suggesting that either overexpressed DegP2 was involved in a secondary cleavage or endogenous thylakoid proteases retained partial activity. In control assays reconstituted with E.coli extract without recombinant DegP2 or with E.coli extract expressing class 1a metallothionein, only small amounts of the 23 kDa degradation fragment were detected at 37°C. This speaks in favour of the possibility that with incubation time, denatured endogenous DegP2 recovered a residual proteolytic activity. These results show that DegP2 can indeed catalyse the primary cleavage of the D1 protein that has been denatured by heat treatment, and this process is not dependent on temperature. The low temperature, however, significantly decreased the kinetics of the degradation of the 23 kDa proteolytic fragment (FIG-REF), probably by partially inhibiting the FtsH protease. It was found recently that GTP promoted the primary cleavage within the D–E loop of the D1 protein mediated by an endogenous protease (CITATION, CITATION). To test whether the degradation of the D1 protein by recombinant DegP2 is stimulated by the presence of GTP, the kinetics of D1 degradation were measured in the presence and absence of added GTP. The results revealed (FIG-REF, left panel) that the degradation of the D1 protein was stimulated up to 2‐ to 4‐fold by addition of GTP. In the absence of recombinant DegP2, the addition of GTP did not influence the level of D1 protein significantly in heat‐inactivated thylakoid membranes (FIG-REF, right panel). We designed an experiment to investigate whether DegP2 can degrade the D1 protein in thylakoids photoinhibited by strong illumination. Such a treatment is proposed first to induce irreversible oxidative damage, which in turn triggers a conformational change in the D1 protein, thereby exposing sites that are normally shielded from proteolysis (CITATION; CITATION). Using dark‐ or high‐light‐pre‐treated thylakoid membranes, where endogenous proteolytic activity directed against the D1 protein was partially removed by NaCl washes, we show that added recombinant DegP2 can recognize and degrade light‐damaged D1 protein (FIG-REF, upper and middle panels). In the absence of recombinant DegP2, only traces of the 23 kDa proteolytic fragment could be detected and were probably related to the activity of remaining endogenous DegP2. In contrast, the D1 protein in the dark control sample was not prone to proteolytic degradation by the overexpressed DegP2 protease. Turnover of the reaction centre counterpart of D1, the D2 protein, and a slow degradation of CP43 have been reported under strong photoinhibitory conditions (CITATION; CITATION). We tested whether the proteolytic activity of recombinant DegP2 was also directed at both these proteins. Immunoblot analysis showed (FIG-REF, lower panel) that neither the D2 protein nor CP43 was degraded by DegP2 protease under the conditions tested.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana L. cv. Columbia were grown in a growth chamber on soil at 25°C at a light intensity of 100 μmol/m2/s under short‐day conditions. Light stress treatment was performed on mature leaves, detached from 4‐ to 5‐week‐old plants, floating on water and exposed to a light intensity of 2500 μmol/m2/s for 2 h. For cold or heat stress, detached leaves floating on water were transferred for 2 h to incubators set at 4 or 42°C, respectively. Desiccation stress was performed on leaves dehydrated on Whatman 3MM paper at room temperature at a light intensity of 10 μmol/m2/s. After 2 h of incubation, the relative water content of leaves was reduced to 50%. Leaves subjected to a high salt or an oxidative stress were submerged for 2 h in 400 mM NaCl or in 2% H2O2 solutions, respectively. UV‐A treatment was performed by illumination of detached leaves with a UV lamp (366 nm) at a light intensity of 25 μmol/m2/s for 2 h. Plant material was collected and either used immediately for extractions or frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −70°C for further preparations. Based on the ORF F17A22.33 localized on chromosome 2 predicted to encode a putative DegP2 protease in Arabidopsis, a pair of PCR primers (5′‐AGTGCCGCCTCCGTAGCA‐3′ and 5′‐TTATGCCCACACCAGTCCATC‐3′) were designed and used for amplification of the DegP2 ORF from the λ‐ZAP (Stratagene) cDNA library (1 × 103 p.f.u.) prepared from Arabidopsis seedlings. The PCR cycling profile (30 cycles) was denaturation at 94°C for 1 min, annealing at 50°C for 1 min, and extension at 72°C for 2 min. The amplified 1821 bp cDNA fragment was purified (Qiaex; Qiagen) and cloned into the pCR2.1 cloning vector (Invitrogen) prior to sequencing of both DNA strands (CyberGene, Stockholm, Sweden). A search of the expressed sequence tag (EST) database with the obtained DegP2 sequence identified the Arabidopsis EST clone 133N20T7 (2280 bp) identical to DegP2 collected into tentative consensus TC54010. Genomic DNA was extracted from leaves as described by CITATION. DNA (10 μg per reaction) was digested by restriction enzymes, and DNA fragments were separated in 0.8% agarose gel and transferred to Hybond‐N+ membrane (Amersham Pharmacia) according to the manufacturer's protocol. The cDNA probe was labelled with [α‐32P]dCTP using a megaprime DNA labelling kit (Amersham Pharmacia). The hybridization and washes were performed under low and high stringency conditions according to CITATION. Total RNA was extracted from control or stress‐treated leaves using an RNeasy mini kit (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer's protocol. After separation of 5 μg of RNA in 1.2% agarose gel, RNA was transferred to a Hybond‐N+ membrane prior to the hybridization according to CITATION. The DegP2 cDNA was amplified using a pair of PCR primers (5′‐GCCGCCTCCGTAGCAAAC‐3′, 5′‐TGCCCACACCAGTCCATCA‐3′) and the cDNA plasmid of EST clone 133N20T7 as template. The DegP2 protein was expressed in E.coli as a fusion protein with the N‐terminal‐attached thioredoxin and C‐terminal‐attached His tag (His6) using a kit (pBAD/Topo® ThioFusion™ Expression System, Invitrogen), according to the manufacturer's protocol. Recombinant DegP2 protein was purified under denaturing conditions by affinity chromatography on Ni‐NTA–agarose (Qiaexpress; Qiagen) and eluted from the column with 200 mM imidazole. The DegP2‐containing fractions were separated by SDS–PAGE and transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane prior to raising polyclonal antibodies in rabbits (BioGenes, Berlin, Germany). Isolated thylakoid membrane and stroma proteins were separated by SDS–PAGE (CITATION) generally using 10% polyacrylamide mini‐gels (Hoefer mini gel system). The gels were loaded on an equal protein basis. Immunoblotting was carried out according to CITATION using enhanced chemiluminescence (ECL; Amersham International) as the detection system. For activity assays, 1 μg of His‐tagged purified DegP2 protease was separated at 4°C on 10% SDS–polyacrylamide gels containing 0.2% gelatine (Type B bloom 75; Sigma) as a non‐specific protease substrate. The gels were then incubated in 50 mM Tris pH 8.0, 5 mM MgCl2, 1% Triton X‐100 for 30 min at 25°C to replace SDS and to allow the renaturation of the DegP2 protease. The buffer was changed to one that was detergent free and the gel was incubated for an additional 16 h at 37°C to allow degradation of gelatine. After staining the gel with Coomassie Blue solution (40% ethanol, 10% acetic acid, 0.1% Coomassie Blue R‐250) and destaining with 40% ethanol and 10% acetic acid solution, a white zone on a blue background was visible, corresponding to the position of the active DegP2 protease. To classify the DegP2 protease, activity gels were incubated in the absence (control) or presence of protease inhibitors: 100 μg/ml PMSF, 10 μg/ml DCI, 1 μg/ml aprotinin, 1 μg/ml E64 [3‐carboxy‐trans‐2,3‐epoxypropyl‐leucylamido(4‐guanidino)butane], 1 μg/ml pepstatin and 500 μg/ml EDTA according to the manufacturers' protocols (Boehringer Mannheim and Sigma). Intact Arabidopsis chloroplasts were isolated and purified on a Percoll gradient according to CITATION. For further fractionation, chloroplasts were ruptured by osmotic shock in 50 mM Tris pH 8.0 and 5 mM MgCl2 at a chlorophyll concentration of 1 mg/ml for 10 min at 4°C, and thylakoid and stromal fractions were separated by centrifugation at 10 000 g for 10 min at 4°C. For preparation of thylakoid lumen, isolated thylakoids were resuspended in the same buffer as above, sonicated 10 times for 30 s at 4°C (power output 8.0; Misonix Inc., Farmingdale, NY) and the thylakoid membranes separated from the soluble lumen fraction by centrifugation at 220 000 g for 1 h at 4°C. Proteins in each fraction were separated by SDS–PAGE and the DegP2 location assayed by immunoblotting. For isolation of appressed and non‐appresed membrane regions, thylakoids were mechanically disrupted by Yeda press, and membrane fragments separated by differential centrifugation and aqueous polymer two‐phase partitioning as described by CITATION. For isolation of the peripheral thylakoid proteins, the thylakoid membranes were resuspended in 25 mM MES pH 6.5 at a chlorophyll concentration of 0.1 mg/ml and the extrinsic membrane proteins were extracted with 0.5 M NaCl or 0.5 M CaCl2 for 30 min at 4°C in darkness under gentle stirring. The suspension was centrifuged at 220 000 g for 1 h at 4°C and the pellet (integral membrane proteins) and supernatant (peripheral membrane proteins) were analysed by SDS–PAGE and immunoblotting. The topology of DegP2 protease was tested by protease protection assay. Isolated thylakoid membranes were resuspended in 50 mM HEPES pH 8.0 and 330 mM sorbitol at a chlorophyll concentration of 1 mg/ml and incubated for 30 min at 4°C with 50 μg/ml trypsin. Protection of DegP2 against degradation by trypsin was tested by immunoblotting. For reconstitution studies, thylakoid membranes were isolated and aliquots containing 9 μg of chlorophyll were denatured for 10 min at 90°C to arrest endogenous proteolytic activities. After addition of His‐tagged purified recombinant DegP2 (0.1 μg protein), assays were incubated in 50 mM Tris pH 9.5, 5 mM MgCl2, 2 mM GTP for 2 h at 4 or 37°C. Degradation of D1 protein was assayed by SDS–PAGE and immunoblotting. For light‐triggered D1 protein degradation, isolated thylakoid membranes were washed with 0.5 M NaCl to reduce endogenous DegP2 activity and then incubated either in darkness or in high light (5000 μmol/m2/s) for 90 min at 0°C as described by CITATION. Aliquots of thylakoid membranes were used for reconstitution studies, and the degradation of D1 protein was followed by immunoblotting in the presence or absence of recombinant DegP2 for 120 min at 37°C and a light intensity of 10 μmol/m2/s. The cDNA sequence of the DegP2 gene is available in GenBank under accession No. AF245171.
