!~ABS~! Arabidopsis COP1 is a photomorphogenesis repressor capable of directly interacting with the photomorphogenesis‐promoting factor HY5. This interaction between HY5 and COP1 results in targeted deg radation of HY5 by the 26S proteasome. Here we characterized the WD40 repeat domain‐mediated interactions of COP1 with HY5 and two new proteins. Mutational analysis of those interactive partners revealed a conserved motif responsible for the interaction with the WD40 domain. This novel motif, with the core sequence V‐P‐E/D‐φ‐G (φ = hydrophobic residue) in conjunction with an upstream stretch of 4–5 negatively charged residues, interacts with a defined surface area of the β‐propeller assembly of the COP1 WD40 repeat domain through both hydrophobic and ionic interactions. Several residues in the COP1 WD40 domain that are critical for the interaction with this motif have been revealed. The fact that point mutations either in the COP1 WD40 domain or in the HY5 motif that abolish the interaction between COP1 and HY5 in yeast result in a dramatic reduction of HY5 degradation in transgenic plants validates the biological significance of this defined interaction.
!~RES~! Deletion analyses have shown that the WD40 domain of COP1 is required for its interaction with the bZIP protein HY5 (CITATION; CITATION). In Arabidopsis, truncated COP1 proteins lacking the WD40 domain (cop1‐4), containing a small deletion in the WD40 domain (cop1‐8) or possessing a single amino acid substitution (cop1‐9) in the WD40 domain cause a loss‐of‐function phenotypic defect (FIG-REF; CITATION). Thus, we initially examined the ability of HY5 to interact with the COP1 proteins found in the three cop1 alleles above, using a yeast two‐hybrid assay system. To this end, we fused amino acids 25–60 of HY5, sufficient for COP1 interaction in yeast (CITATION), to the LexA DNA‐binding domain (LexA‐BD) and assayed the interaction with activation domain‐fused wild‐type COP1, COP1‐4, COP1‐8 and COP1‐9 proteins. All these COP1 proteins were expressed to similar levels in yeast (data not shown). As shown in FIG-REF, the COP1‐interacting domain of HY5 interacts well with wild‐type COP1 but is unable to interact with the COP1‐4, COP1‐8 and COP1‐9 proteins, suggesting that these mutations in the WD40 domain interfere with the ability of COP1 to interact with HY5. [[FIGURE]] To identify novel COP1‐interacting proteins, we used full‐length COP1 protein fused to the Gal4 DNA‐binding domain (Gal4‐BD) to screen a library made from 3‐day‐old dark‐grown Arabidopsis seedlings (CITATION). Fourteen of ∼170 000 independent transformants allowed auxotrophic growth and showed β‐galactosidase activity in plate assays. The plasmids recovered from 10 of the transformants allowed COP1‐dependent auxotrophic growth and β‐galactosidase activity when re‐introduced in yeast. Sequencing and restriction mapping revealed that the 10 plasmids were encoding five different cDNAs. One of the plasmids contained a truncated salt tolerance (STO) cDNA (CITATION), whereas two independent plasmids contained a cDNA encoding a homolog of STO (STH) (FIG-REF). The STO homolog has been sequenced by the Arabidopsis genome initiative and is located on chromosome II. The predicted protein (DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank accession No. AAD26481) is one amino acid shorter than the protein encoded by the STH cDNA due to an error in exon–intron boundary prediction. To confirm the interactions, we fused the coding regions of STO and STH to the Gal4 activation domain (Gal4‐AD) in pGAD (a different two‐hybrid vector, see Materials and methods). The STO and STH proteins expressed from the pGAD vector again interact well with wild‐type COP1. However, like HY5, STO and STH were unable to interact with the COP1‐4, COP1‐8 and COP1‐9 proteins (FIG-REF), suggesting that the WD40 domain of COP1 is also required for interaction with the STO and STH proteins. [[FIGURE]] The STO and STH proteins share 70% overall amino acid identity and contain two tandem cysteine‐rich motifs in their N‐termini (FIG-REF). The cysteine motifs, predicted to form Zn2+ fingers, are homologous to motifs found in CONSTANS (CO) and resemble the DNA‐binding Zn2+ finger domain in the GATA1 transcription factor (CITATION). The cysteine motifs are directly adjacent in CO but are spaced by nine amino acids in the STO and STH proteins. However, the STO protein and the truncated STH protein recovered in the screen lacked the cysteine motifs (FIG-REF), indicating that this domain is dispensable for the interaction with COP1. Taken together, HY5, STO and STH interact with the WD40 domain of COP1 in yeast. The N‐terminal half of HY5 and the C‐terminal half of STO and STH are sufficient to mediate this interaction. The mutations in the WD40 domain of COP1‐8 and COP1‐9 abolish interaction with the HY5, STO and STH proteins. So far, all characterized strong and lethal cop1 alleles that still accumulate COP1 protein contain mutations within the WD40 domain (FIG-REF; CITATION). To gain insight into the molecular nature of the WD40 domain mutations in COP1, we modeled the COP1 WD40 repeats after the β‐propeller of Gβ transducin (CITATION; FIG-REF). Secondary structure analysis of COP1 predicts 28 β‐strands between amino acids 361 and 673 of COP1 (FIG-REF), suggesting that COP1, like Gβ, has seven β‐sheets. The deletions in cop1‐1, cop1‐8, cop1‐10 and cop1‐11 remove multiple β‐strands, whereas the substitution in cop1‐9 (FIG-REF and FIG-REF) replaces Gly524 with a glutamic acid. In Gβ, this conserved glycine is imbedded in the hydrophobic interface between two β‐sheets. A large, charged residue in this position would interfere with the hydrophobic interactions and could potentially disrupt the β‐propeller. Thus, it is likely that all mutations found in the strong and lethal cop1 alleles interfere with the formation of a β‐propeller. [[FIGURE]] A change in the overall structure of the WD40 domain, as predicted for the strong and lethal cop1 alleles, is likely to interfere with the ability of the domain to interact with multiple interacting proteins. To examine the interaction between the COP1 WD40 domain and the HY5, STO and STH proteins, we generated point mutations in the WD40 domain that could interfere specifically with the interactions of the domain without affecting its β‐propeller structure. To this end, we generated five independent amino acid‐substituted COP1 proteins (FIG-REF). The substitutions are located in four different D–A loops, thus potentially involved in protein–protein interactions and unlikely to interfere with the folding of the domain. One of the substitutions, W467A, replaces a large hydrophobic side chain with a single methyl group, whereas the others, K422E, R465E, K550E and E592R, are charge reversals. To examine the effect of the WD40 domain substitutions in vivo, we transformed constructs overexpressing each of the substituted COP1 proteins into heterozygous cop1‐5 plants. Transgenes segregating as a single locus were selected and selfed to generate lines homozygous for both cop1‐5 and the transgenes. At least three independent transgenic lines for each construct were examined, and western blot analysis indicated that the levels of mutated COP1 proteins were similar in all the lines and to that of the wild‐type COP1 overexpressor control. All five amino acid‐substituted COP1 proteins were able to rescue the lethal phenotype of the cop1‐5 null mutation when overexpressed in plants (FIG-REF). However, when the seedlings were grown in constant white light, the hypocotyl length differed between the lines. At higher light intensity, 200 μmol/m2/s, the E592R substitution results in slightly longer hypocotyls than wild type, whereas no significant difference was observed between wild‐type seedlings and the seedlings overexpressing either COP1 proteins with the K422E, R465E, W467A and K550E substitutions or wild‐type COP1, respectively (FIG-REF). At lower intensity light, 40 μmol/m2/s, the E592R substitution still results in a longer hypocotyl than wild type, comparable to seedlings overexpressing wild‐type COP1, whereas the K422E, R465E, W467A and K550E substitutions display a significantly shorter hypocotyl than wild‐type seedlings (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Dark‐grown seedlings expressing the substituted COP1 proteins all showed elongated hypocotyls (FIG-REF and data not shown), but ∼70% of the seedlings expressing the W467A‐substituted COP1 protein had open cotyledons (FIG-REF). The ability of the substituted COP1 proteins to partially rescue the cop1‐5 null mutation indicates that the overexpressed COP1 proteins are functional in plants and that the WD40 domains are properly folded. Furthermore, the phenotypes observed for the substituted COP1 proteins are much weaker as compared with those of the genetically identified mutations, which are likely to affect the overall structure of the WD40 domain. This suggests that the substitutions might affect specific protein–protein interaction surfaces on the COP1 WD40 domain; thus, each substitution potentially may interfere with the interaction of only a subset of COP1 target proteins. [[FIGURE]] We examined the effect of the COP1 substitutions on the interactions with HY5 and the STO/STH proteins in yeast two‐hybrid assays. Due to technical reasons (see Materials and methods), we assayed the COP1–HY5 interactions in the LexA system and the COP1–STO/STH interactions in the Gal4 system. The amino acid‐substituted COP1 proteins expressed as well as wild‐type COP1 in both two‐hybrid systems (data not shown). The use of different two‐hybrid systems prevents a direct comparison between the HY5 and the STO/STH proteins; however, the relative effect that the WD40 domain substitutions have on the interaction with each partner can still be compared (FIG-REF). Two of the substituted COP1 proteins, K422E and R465E, interact differently with HY5 and the STO/STH proteins. The K422E substitution results in a >5‐fold higher interaction with HY5 compared with wild‐type COP1, but allows only a weak interaction with the STO and STH proteins. The R465E‐substituted protein interacts at wild‐type level with HY5 but fails to interact with the STO/STH proteins. The finding that the K422E substitution enhances the interaction with HY5 and decreases the interaction with the STO/STH proteins resembles results seen with Gβ. A study by CITATION has shown that the substitution of loop residues in Gβ could increase, decrease or abolish interactions with different effectors, indicating that a change in the WD40 interaction surface can have different effects on different target proteins. [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, three of the substitutions have similar effects on the interactions with HY5 and the STO/STH proteins. The COP1E592R protein interacts slightly better than wild‐type COP1 with HY5, STH and STO, whereas COP1W467A and COP1K550E are unable to interact with either HY5 protein or STO/STH. The inability of W467A and K550E to interact with HY5 or STO/STH suggests that these residues may be critical for the interaction of COP1 with all three proteins. The identical pattern of interactions between STO and STH with the substituted COP1 proteins suggests that these two proteins interact with a common surface on COP1. Furthermore, the finding that the interaction pattern of the STO and STH proteins overlaps with that of the HY5 protein suggests that STO/STH and HY5 interact with partially overlapping surfaces on the COP1 WD40 domain. If the HY5 and STO/STH proteins interact with partially overlapping surfaces on the COP1 WD40 domain, it is possible that they contain common sequence features able to mediate the interaction with COP1. Upon examining the amino acid sequence of the HY5 and STO/STH proteins, we found a short sequence within the COP1‐interacting domain in HY5 that resembles the sequence in the very C‐terminus of the STO and STH proteins (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). The conserved sequence motif is a stretch of negative amino acids and a spacer of three amino acids followed by the motif V‐P‐E/D‐Φ‐G, where Φ designates a hydrophobic residue (FIG-REF). The motif is conserved in tomato HY5, STF proteins from soybean, in a bZIP protein from fava bean and in STO/STH homologs from rice (FIG-REF and FIG-REF; CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To examine whether this conserved motif is important for the interaction with COP1, we substituted the conserved valine–proline (VP) pair in the HY5 and STH protein with alanines. As shown in FIG-REF, alanine substitution of the VP pair completely abolishes the ability of both STH and HY5 to interact with wild type or any of the amino acid‐substituted COP1 proteins, indicating that this motif is indeed important for COP1 interaction. The location of the motif, in the N‐terminal half of HY5 and in the C‐terminus of STO and STH, suggests that its function is position independent. We have shown that the COP1R465E and COP1K550E proteins are unable to interact with the STO/STH proteins (FIG-REF). Since both substitutions are positive to negative charge reversals, it is possible that an acidic amino acid in or close to the motif in the STO/STH proteins could form a salt bridge with either R465 or K550 in wild‐type COP1. To test this possibility, we generated four STH proteins with single amino acid substitutions reversing the charge of amino acids 228, 229, 230 and 236. The substitutions are unlikely to be structurally disruptive since the motifs in both the STH and HY5 proteins are predicted to form a loop. Three of the amino acid‐substituted STH proteins (E228K, E229K and E230K) were able to interact with the same set of COP1 proteins as wild‐type STH (FIG-REF). Although the mutations have small quantitative effects on the interaction with wild‐type COP1 and COP1K422E, no qualitative differences were observed (FIG-REF). This result suggested that each individual residue in this upstream negatively charged amino acid stretch is dispensable. However, as a whole, this stretch of negatively charged amino acids is essential for COP1–HY5 interaction (CITATION). In contrast, the STH‐D236K protein is unable to interact with wild‐type COP1 but allows a weak interaction with COP1K550E (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Thus, the K550E‐substituted COP1 protein is unable to interact with wild‐type STH and the D236K‐substituted STH protein is unable to interact with wild‐type COP1. However, when the charge is reversed in both proteins, their interaction is restored, suggesting that amino acid K550 in COP1 interacts directly with amino acid D236 in STH. To test whether the motif in HY5 behaves similarly, we substituted the reciprocal amino acid (E45) with a lysine or an arginine. As shown in FIG-REF and FIG-REF, the E45K and E45R substitutions in HY5 render the protein unable to interact with wild‐type COP1 but allow a strong interaction with COP1K550E. Taken together, this new COP1‐interacting motif found in the N‐terminal half of HY5 and in the C‐terminus of STO and STH requires the amino acids V‐P‐E/D‐Φ‐G. Furthermore, we identify direct amino acid contacts between K550 in COP1 and E45 in HY5 and D236 in STH. [[FIGURE]] A recent study showed that the HY5 protein is degraded in the absence of light, suggesting that the COP1–HY5 interaction mediates a COP1‐dependent, negative regulation of the abundance of HY5 protein in the dark (CITATION). If the residues W467 and K550 in the COP1 WD40 domain are important for the interaction between COP1 and the novel motif in vivo, it is expected that substitutions of W467, K550 or in the motif would interfere with the COP1‐mediated degradation of HY5 in Arabidopsis. To test this assumption, we used two independent approaches. First, we assayed the stability of endogenous HY5 protein in the lines expressing the substituted COP1 proteins. Secondly, we examined the ability of endogenous COP1 protein to affect the stability of overexpressed HY5 protein with or without substitutions in the defined motif. As shown in FIG-REF, HY5 is readily detectable in 4‐day‐old light‐grown seedlings overexpressing wild‐type COP1 or either of the five amino acid‐substituted COP1 proteins in the cop1‐5 null mutant background. Transfer of the seedlings to darkness for 20 h results in a reduction in the amount of endogenous HY5 protein as previously observed (CITATION). Interestingly, the W467A and K550E substitutions result in a delayed dark‐dependent HY5 reduction, suggesting that the COP1 proteins with these two substitutions are less efficient in targeting HY5 for degradation. The observed reduced degradation of HY5 in seedlings expressing the W467A‐ and K550E‐substituted COP1 proteins corresponds well with the loss of interaction in yeast two‐hybrid assays (FIG-REF) and with the short hypocotyl seen when these seedlings were grown in low‐intensity white light (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). On the other hand, the E592R mutation resulted in a reduced HY5 level in the light, also consistent with its elongated hypocotyl under continuous white light (FIG-REF, FIG-REF and FIG-REF) and with the increased interaction in two‐hybrid assays (FIG-REF). Unexpectedly, while K422E has higher affinity for HY5 in yeast, the seedlings expressing K422E have slightly reduced HY5 degradation in darkness and shorter hypocotyls than seedlings overexpressing wild‐type COP1 in low‐intensity light. Although we do not know the cause of this result, it is plausible that this mutation has drastic effects on other unknown targets, whose effect on the hypocotyl is strong and dominant over that of HY5. [[FIGURE]] We also generated homozygous transgenic lines overexpressing either wild‐type HY5 (35S::HY5) or a HY5 protein with the critical VP pair substituted by alanines (35S::HY5VP‐AA) in hy5‐ks50, a null allele of hy5 (CITATION). Overexpression of both wild‐type HY5 and HY5VP‐AA complement the hypocotyl phenotype in hy5‐ks50, indicating that both proteins are functional in plants (data not shown). The stability of the HY5 proteins was assayed by growing the 35S::HY5 and 35S::HY5VP‐AA seedlings in white light for 3 days and subsequent transfer to the dark. Protein extracts were prepared at day 3 and after 24, 48 and 72 h in darkness. As shown in FIG-REF, 35S::HY5 displays clearly reduced HY5 protein levels after 1 day in the dark. In contrast, the HY5 protein levels remain unaffected during the course of the experiment in 35S::HY5VP‐AA seedlings. Thus, substitution of the critical VP pair in the motif abolishes COP1 interaction in yeast and results in a dramatic reduction of dark‐dependent HY5 degradation in plants. Taken together, the results support the finding that this motif is important for COP1–HY5 interaction and COP1‐dependent degradation of HY5 in the dark.
!~MM~! The Escherichia coli strain BNN123 was used for library excision, DH5α for subcloning, and the Agrobacterium strain GV3101 pMP90 was used for plant transformation. The yeast strain Y190 (CITATION) was used for the two‐hybrid screen and for assays with the pAS and pGAD constructs. The yeast strain EGY48‐0 (CITATION) was used for the assays with the pEGHY5(25–60) and pJGCOP1 constructs. The transgenic line overexpressing wild‐type COP1 has been described previously (CITATION). The point‐mutated 35S::COP1 constructs were transformed into cop1‐5 (CITATION) and the 35S::HY5 and 35S::HY5VP‐AA constructs into hy5‐ks50 (CITATION) plants by the floral dip method (CITATION). Homozygous lines were then established from primary transformants. At least three independent lines with similar COP1 protein levels for each construct were selected and used for detailed analysis. For analysis of the HY5 protein in the overexpressors, two or more independent transgenic lines per construct were analyzed and the same result was confirmed. Plasmid pJGCOP1, fusing the B42 activation domain to the N‐terminus of COP1, has been described elsewhere (CITATION). All other Gal4‐BD and COP1‐AD constructs were created by subcloning respective COP1 cDNA to the pAS1 (CITATION) and pJG4‐5 (CITATION) vectors, respectively. The pACT‐STO plasmid contains a truncated STO cDNA (DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank accession No. X95572) beginning at nucleotide 431. The pACT‐STH1 and pACT‐STH2 plasmids contain the cDNA for the predicted protein, DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank accession No. AAD26481; the sequence is identical except that the cDNA encodes an additional glutamic acid at position 160. The STH1 sequence begins 82 bp 5′ of the predicted start methionine, whereas the truncated STH2 cDNA encodes amino acids 95–238 of STH. The pACT‐STO and full‐length pACT‐STH, but not the truncated pACT‐STH2, contain frameshifts between the Gal4‐AD and the cDNA, precluding the translation of AD‐fused STO and STH proteins. The pGAD vectors, fusing the Gal4‐AD to amino acid 1 of STH and to amino acid 95 of STO, were therefore generated and used in all β‐galactosidase assays. The STH coding region, PCR amplified from pACT‐STH1, and the STO cDNA from pACT‐ STO were inserted in pGAD424 (CITATION). Plasmid pEGHY5(25–60) and the mutated derivatives fuse the LexA‐BD to amino acids 25–60 of HY5. The plasmids were made by PCR amplifying the region of the HY5 cDNA with primers including an in‐frame EcoRI restriction site; the fragments were subsequently inserted in the EcoRI and XhoI sites of pEG202. The COP1 cDNAs for transgenic overexpression were generated by site‐directed mutagenesis and cloned into pPZP222 (CITATION) for expression under control of the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) promoter and terminator. The HY5 cDNAs designed by site‐directed mutagenesis were cloned into pBAR‐A (DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank accession No. AJ251013) for expression under control of the full‐length 35S CaMV promoter and the nopaline synthase terminator. All amino acid substitutions were made by PCR‐based mutagenesis. The open reading frames were sequenced and it was confirmed that no mutations were introduced other than the desired ones. The λACT cDNA expression library (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center # CD4‐22) was converted to a pACT library according to CITATION. The two‐hybrid screen was performed essentially as described in CITATION. The STO/STH–COP1 interactions were assayed with Gal4‐BD‐COP1 and Gal4‐AD‐STO and ‐STH in the Y190 strain, and the HY5–COP1 interactions with LexA‐HY5 and AD‐COP1 in the EGY48 strain. Different two‐hybrid systems were used due to the behavior of COP1 and HY5 proteins in yeast. In the LexA system, AD‐fused COP1 and LexA‐BD‐fused HY5 were readily detectable in immunoblots but we were unable to detect LexA‐BD‐fused full‐length COP1. In the Gal4 system, Gal4‐BD‐fused full‐length COP1 expresses well, but introduction of Gal4‐AD‐fused HY5 caused a severe reduction in yeast growth. Transformation of Y190 with COP1 bait and STO or STH prey constructs and of EGY48‐0 with HY5(25–60) bait and COP1 prey constructs was performed as previously described (CITATION). The β‐galactosidase assays were performed according to CITATION, with the exception that the galactose induction was omitted in the Y190 assays since the expression from pAS and pGAD vectors is driven by constitutive promoters. Expression of Gal4‐BD‐COP1 and AD‐COP1 fusion proteins was examined by immunoblotting using anti‐Gal4‐BD and anti‐HA antibodies, respectively.
