!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis calcineurin B‐like calcium sensor proteins (AtCBLs) interact with a group of serine‐threonine protein kinases (AtCIPKs) in a calcium‐dependent manner. Here we identify a 24 amino acid domain (NAF domain) unique to these kinases as being required and sufficient for interaction with all known AtCBLs. Mutation of conserved residues either abolished or significantly diminished the affinity of AtCIPK1 for AtCBL2. Comprehensive two‐hybrid screens with various AtCBLs identified 15 CIPKs as potential targets of CBL proteins. Database analyses revealed additional kinases from Arabidopsis and other plant species harbouring the NAF interaction module. Several of these kinases have been implicated in various signalling pathways mediating responses to stress, hormones and environmental cues. Full‐length CIPKs show preferential interaction with distinct CBLs in yeast and in vitro assays. Our findings suggest differential interaction affinity as one of the mechanisms generating the temporal and spatial specificity of calcium signals within plant cells and that different combinations of CBL–CIPK proteins contribute to the complex network that connects various extracellular signals to defined cellular responses.
!~RES~! A C‐terminal domain covering amino acid positions 276–398 of AtCIPK1 has been shown to be required and sufficient for interaction with AtCBL1–4 (CITATION). Yeast two‐hybrid assays were applied to map and narrow down further the peptide motif responsible for AtCBL− AtCIPK1 interaction. A series of deletion constructs (KinD1–KinD9) was generated by cloning AtCIPK1 fragments into the pGAD.GH activation domain vector. The constructs were then transformed into yeast strains harbouring the pGBT.AtCBL2 plasmid. To avoid potential interference of a possible myristylation and subsequent membrane localization of AtCBL1 in the two‐hybrid assays, AtCBL2 instead of AtCBL1 was chosen for these analyses. Interactions were assayed by growth on selective medium due to the activation of the nutritional marker gene HIS3. Activation of the second reporter gene lacZ was monitored by measuring the β‐galactosidase activity (FIG-REF). In control experiments, neither AtCBL2 nor the kinase fragments activated reporter gene expression when co‐transformed with an empty vector, while a peptide harbouring amino acids 312–336 (KinD8) was sufficient to mediate interaction with AtCBL2 (FIG-REF). A fragment covering amino acid residues 319–369 (KinD6) did not yield detectable reporter gene activation, indicating that the seven N‐terminal amino acids of KinD8 represent a motif indispensable for AtCBL2–AtCIPK1 interaction. In addition, a construct harbouring the complete coding region of AtCIPK1 except amino acids 312–336 (KinD9) did not interact with AtCBL2. [[FIGURE]] To corroborate these results, we investigated the AtCBL2–AtCIPK1 interaction in vitro. Full‐length AtCIPK1 (Kin) as well as KinD1, KinD4, KinD6 and KinD9 were expressed and 35S‐labelled in vitro (FIG-REF, left panel). Subsequently, the different polypeptides were incubated with or without recombinant AtCBL2‐His6 protein. Co‐affinity purification was performed on Ni‐NTA beads, and kinase polypeptides were visualized by autoradiography. As shown in FIG-REF (right panel), full‐length AtCIPK1 (Kin), KinD1 and KinD4, but not KinD6 and KinD9, interacted with AtCBL2‐His6 in vitro, thus confirming our yeast two‐hybrid results.
!~MM~! Molecular biology techniques were performed using standard protocols (CITATION). Total RNA was isolated with Trifast solution (Peqlab) and poly(A) RNA was purified by applying 1 mg of total RNA to oligo(dT) columns (Gibco‐BRL). For cDNA synthesis, 3 μg of poly(A) RNA were primed with 3 μg of random hexamer primer and reverse transcription was performed using the Omniskript RT Kit (Qiagen). A list of primers used in the course of this work can be obtained upon request.
