!~ABS~! Most organisms, from cyanobacteria to mammals, use circadian clocks to coordinate their activities with the natural 24-h light/dark cycle. The clock proteins of Drosophila and mammals exhibit striking homology but do not show similarity with clock proteins found so far from either cyanobacteria or Neurospora (CITATION) . Each of these organisms uses a transcriptionally regulated negative feedback loop in which the messenger RNA levels of the clock components cycle over a 24-h period. Proteins containing PAS domains are invariably found in at least one component of the characterized eukaryotic clocks (CITATION) . Here we describe ADAGIO1 (ADO1), a gene of Arabidopsis thaliana that encodes a protein containing a PAS domain. We found that a loss-of-function ado1 mutant is altered in both gene expression and cotyledon movement in circadian rhythmicity. Under constant white or blue light, the ado1 mutant exhibits a longer period than that of wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings, whereas under red light cotyledon movement and stem elongation are arrhythmic. Both yeast two-hybrid and in vitro binding studies show that there is a physical interaction between ADO1 and the photoreceptors CRY1 and phyB. We propose that ADO1 is an important component of the Arabidopsis circadian system.
!~RES~! In plants, the circadian clock controls daily changes of photosynthetic activities, leaf movement, cell growth and gene expression (CITATION) . Several molecular components have been described for plant circadian systems (CITATION) , including the blue light photoreceptor cryptochrome and the red light photoreceptor phytochrome, which mediate rhythm entrainment in Arabidopsis (CITATION) . Cryptochrome also functions in both fly and mammalian circadian clocks (CITATION) —unexpectedly, in the latter, cryptochrome is described as having the properties of an integral component of the clock (CITATION) . ADO1 is identical to ZTL (CITATION) and LKP1 (ref. 16), and is a member of a three-gene family together with ADO2 (LKP2) (CITATION) and ADO3 (FKF1) (CITATION) (see Supplementary Information). The PAS domain of ADO1 is similar to both that of white collar 1 (WC-1), an essential component of the Neurospora clock (CITATION) , and to the Arabidopsis proteins phototropin (NPH1) (CITATION) and NPL1 (ref. 21). These domains mediate protein–protein interactions and are often associated with signalling pathways that monitor changes in light, redox potential, oxygen, small ligands and the overall energy level of the cell (CITATION) . In the case of phototropin, this PAS/LOV domain binds FMN (CITATION) . In addition to a PAS domain, the three ADO proteins also contain an F-box domain, which may link target proteins to a ubiquitination complex (SCF complex) (CITATION) , and six kelch repeats, which are possibly implicated in protein–protein interactions (CITATION) (Fig. 1; and Supplementary Information). [[FIGURE]] To define the function of ADO1, we pursued a reverse genetic approach. By using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to screen pools of T-DNA (transferred DNA) insertion lines, we identified an insertion in the ADO1 gene within the region encoding the kelch motifs. The T-DNA insertion adds six new codons before an in-frame stop codon occurs (Fig. 1a), which predicts a truncated protein. However, we did not detect expression of ADO1 mRNA in the mutant by northern blot analysis (Fig. 1b); therefore, ado1 may be a null, or severely hypomorphic allele. To examine whether ADO1, like the related WC-1 of Neurospora (CITATION) , was affected in clock-regulated processes, we determined by northern blot analysis whether the temporal expression pattern of the endogenous CCR2 gene was altered in the ado1 mutant background. CCR2 is an Arabidopsis gene that encodes an RNA-binding protein and exhibits circadian expression (CITATION) . RNA was prepared at 2-h intervals from 3-week-old wild-type and ado1 mutant plants, which had been entrained to an 8-h photoperiod and then removed to constant white light for a further 48 h. The period of cyclical CCR2 gene expression was lengthened in the ado1 mutant (Fig. 2). We observed that the period length of CCR2 mRNA expression was roughly 24 h for the wild type, consistent with previous reports (CITATION) . In contrast, the period length of the ado1 mutant was extended by about 3 h (Fig. 2). We also examined CAB gene expression and observed a similar change in periodicity for the ado1 mutant (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] We examined a second, essentially unrelated, circadian process. The circadian clock controls both hypocotyl elongation and cotyledon movement in Arabidopsis seedlings (CITATION) , with circadian dysfunction disrupting these processes (CITATION) . Analysis of ado1 mutant seedlings showed that the periodicity of cotyledon movement was lengthened by roughly 6 h in white light (Fig. 3a). Because both blue and red light also serve to entrain the circadian clock in Arabidopsis (CITATION) , we similarly defined the periodicity of ado1 mutant seedlings under these light conditions. We observed that the periodicity of cotyledon movements was lengthened in the ado1 seedlings under blue light, as under white light (Fig. 3b). In marked contrast, cotyledon movement and growth of the ado1 seedlings under red light was arrhythmic (Fig. 3c). [[FIGURE]] Because ado1 was affected in several outputs from the circadian clock, we concluded that ADO1 has a role, either in the clock itself or in processing light signalling to the clock. Both cryptochrome and phytochrome photoreceptors have been shown to function in entraining Arabidopsis circadian rhythms in response to light (CITATION) , so we used the yeast two-hybrid system to define potential interactions between ADO1 and these photoreceptors. A fusion of ADO1 to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain (GDB) interacted with the carboxy terminus of PHYB fused to the GAL4 DNA activation domain (GAD), as shown by the production of significant levels of β-galactosidase activity (Fig. 4a, b). Similarly, a strong interaction was observed between ADO1 and the C terminus of CRY1. No interactions were observed between any of these (ADO1, PHYB or CRY1) and unrelated control proteins. We extended these studies by in vitro binding experiments. Again, the GAD–ADO1 fusion protein was found to bind to the C terminus of both CRY1 and PHYB (Fig. 4c). Significantly, no binding of GAD–ADO1 was observed with the related PAS-domain-containing protein NPH1 (Fig. 4c). [[FIGURE]] Our original analysis of ADO1 was prompted by the striking similarity of its PAS domain to that of the white collar protein WC-1, a component of the Neurospora circadian clock (CITATION) . Our observations, together with those indicating that mutations at the ADO1/ZTL locus affect the periodicity of two essentially unrelated processes—CCR2 and CAB gene expression, as well as cotyledon movement (CITATION) —argue strongly that ADO1 does not simply affect output but either affects on input to the clock or is an integral component of the circadian oscillator itself. Given the similarity of the ADO1 PAS domain to the corresponding flavin-binding PAS/LOV domains of phototropin and WC-1, it might be argued that ADO1 is a photoreceptor, as is thought to be the case for these other two PAS-domain proteins (CITATION) . An alternative viewpoint is that ADO1 is an integral component of the Arabidopsis circadian clock, receiving input signals for photo-entrainment from both phytochrome and cryptochrome. Our observation that ADO1 physically interacts with both phytochrome and cryptochrome photoreceptors of Arabidopsis is consistent with both of these interpretations. Similarly, our finding that stem elongation and cotyledon movement for the ado1 mutant are arrhythmic under red light does not distinguish whether ADO1 has a role in input or whether it is an integral component of the clock. The long-period rhythmicity that we observed for ado1 under blue and white light might reflect a redundant activity of ADO2 and/or ADO3. A better understanding of the roles of these genes in the Arabidopsis clock should be obtained by examining mutants affected in these additional members of the ADAGIO family. Finally, irrespective of the precise function of these genes, our findings indicate that at least some components of the circadian clock in Arabidopsis are more similar to those in Neurospora than they are to those of flies and mammals.
!~MM~! The ADO1 genomic sequence was amplified by PCR with a 5′ primer complementary to a 23-base-pair (bp) sequence in the 5′ untranslated region of the ADO1 complementary DNA, 130 bp upstream of the ATG codon, and with a 3′ primer complementary to a 22-bp sequence immediately downstream of the TGA codon. The amplified PCR products were sequenced using an ABI 373 sequencer. Flanking genomic sequence outside the cDNA sequence was subsequently obtained from P1 clone MSF19 (GenBank accession number AB016891). The ado1 mutant was identified by PCR screening of 30,000 T-DNA insertion lines (J.M.A. and J.R.E., unpublished), using oligonucleotides specific for the ADO1 gene and the T-DNA. We showed by DNA sequencing that the insertion disrupted the gene after the codon for Glu 440, adding six amino-acid codons before an in-frame stop codon occurred. Plants were grown for 3 weeks at 22 °C under an 8-h photoperiod and then moved for 48 h to continuous white light of 120 µmol m-2 s-1. Every 2 h, the aerial parts of at least 5 plants were pooled for RNA extractions. Total RNA (10 µg) was electrophoresed on agarose gels and transferred to Hybond N+ (Amersham). We analysed CCR2 gene expression with a probe prepared from expressed sequence tag 151C20T7. After northern hybridization, nylon membranes were exposed to a Bio-Rad imaging plate at room temperature. The image was visualized using a Bio-Rad FX phosphorimager. Expression levels were normalized against the signal obtained by hybridizing the same blot with an Arabidopsis 26S ribosomal DNA probe. The normalized values were then expressed as a proportion of the highest value obtained, and graphed. Experiments were repeated twice. Seeds were surface-sterilized and sown in two rows, one of mutant seed and one of wild-type, on MS medium containing 2% sucrose. The seeds were incubated in Petri dishes in a growth chamber under 12 h (80 µmol m-2 s-1) cool white fluorescent light/12 h dark at 22 °C. After 5 d, the Petri dishes were placed before a Logitech Quickcam video camera. Cotyledon movement was recorded under continuous white, blue or red light of 10 µmol m-2 s-1 at 22 °C. We recorded the position in pixels of one cotyledon tip per seedling for 96 h. Periods of cotyledon movements were estimated as described (CITATION) . The periodicity of cotyledon movement under continuous white light (and blue light) for the mutant was about 6 h longer than that observed for wild-type. By contrast, the periodicity of CCR2 gene expression for the ado1 mutant under constant white light was about 3 h longer than that of wild type. These differences in period extension may reflect changes in either the age of the plants and/or the entrainment conditions for the two experiments. We used the matchmaker yeast two-hybrid system (Clontech) for protein interaction studies. Plasmid pAS2-1 contains the yeast GBD cloning vector, whereas pACT2 contains the GAD cloning vector. To eliminate false positives, yeast cells were transformed with the bait and prey, mated, and positive colonies were selected on SD/-LEU/-TRP/-HIS/AT medium. A non-lethal β-galactosidase plate assay for yeast was achieved on agar plates by adding X-gal directly to the medium (buffered to pH 7.0), colonies were allowed to grow for 3 d, flooded with chloroform for 5 min, and then incubated at 30 °C for 24 h. Quantification was determined using a colorimetric assay with chlorophenol red β-d-galactopyranoside as the substrate according to the manufacturer's protocol. We determined the averages and standard errors for β-galactosidase activities on three colonies, and repeated this three times. DNA templates encoding the Arabidopsis phyB C-terminal domain (645–1172), the CRY1 C-terminal domain (490–681), the full-length NPH1 and the full-length ADO1 protein fused to GAD (GAD–ADO1) were cloned into the pBluescript SK(-) vector. These templates were transcribed with T7 polymerase and translated in the presence of [35S]Met using the T′n′T-coupled in vitro transcription/translation reaction mix (Promega). GAD–ADO1 was attached to 20 µl of protein A/agarose beads by adding 1 µg monoclonal antibody against GAD (Santa Cruz Biotechnology). The bead-bound protein was incubated for 45 min at 4 °C in 100 µl PBS binding buffer (pH 7.4) containing complete protease inhibitor, 0.1% NP-40, 0.1% bovine serum albumin (BSA) and 1 mM phenyl-methyl-sulphonyl fluoride (PMSF). The protein was washed twice with 1.0 ml PBS binding buffer without BSA and PMSF. For binding studies, agarose beads carrying ∼3.5 fmol GAD–ADO1 were incubated with candidate binding proteins in a 60-µl reaction on a rotating wheel at 4 °C for 1 h. After centrifugation, the beads were pelleted and washed three times with the above ice-cold washing buffer. The washed pellet was resuspended in 2 × SDS sample buffer, and the proteins were analysed by SDS–PAGE and autoradiography.
