!~ABS~! A 350-kDa ClpP protease complex with 10 different subunits was identified in chloroplast of Arabidopsis thaliana, using Blue-Native gel electrophoresis, followed by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight and nano-electrospray tandem mass spectrometry. The complex was copurified with the thylakoid membranes, and all identified Clp subunits show chloroplast targeting signals, supporting that this complex is indeed localized in the chloroplast. The complex contains chloroplast-encoded pClpP and six nuclear-encoded proteins nCpP1–6, as well as two unassigned Clp homologues (nClpP7, nClpP8). An additional Clp protein was identified in this complex; it does not belong to any of the known Clp genes families and is here assigned ClpS1. Expression and accumulation of several of these Clp proteins have never been shown earlier. Sequence and phylogenetic tree analysis suggests that nClpP5, nClpP2, and nClpP8 are not catalytically active and form a new group of Clp higher plant proteins, orthologous to the cyanobacterial ClpR protein, and are renamed ClpR1, -2, and -3, respectively. We speculate that ClpR1, -2, and -3 are part of the heptameric rings, whereas ClpS1 is a regulatory subunit positioned at the axial opening of the ClpP/R core. Several truncations and errors in intron and exon prediction of the annotated Clp genes were corrected using mass spectrometry data and by matching genomic sequences with cDNA sequences. This strategy will be widely applicable for the much needed verification of protein prediction from genomic sequence. The extreme complexity of the chloroplast Clp complex is discussed. 
!~RES~! To identify protein complexes that are peripherally attached to thylakoid membranes, we first purified fairly large quantities of thylakoid membranes (membranes containing about 100 mg of chlorophyll, equivalent to ∼800–900 mg of protein) from mature leaves of Arabidopsis thaliana. The chloroplast stroma is reported to contain 15–30 mm Mg2+, which is needed to keep the thylakoid membranes in its physiologically stacked state and to stabilize several known complexes, such as ribosomes. Therefore, the thylakoid membranes were kept in a medium containing MgCl2 all throughout the preparation, as we expected that this could enhance binding and stability of membrane-associated protein complexes. The thylakoid membranes were purified on linear Percoll gradients to minimize contamination with other membranes or organelles.  To release peripherally attached thylakoid complexes, we attempted treatment with very low levels of nonionic detergents and treatment by Yeda press, both followed by differential centrifugation. We will not further report on the detergent extraction since this did not result in the purification of significant amounts of novel stable peripheral complexes. Instead, we report on the purification of complexes using Yeda press.  Thylakoid membranes were fragmented by Yeda press treatment, and the membranes were subsequently removed by ultracentrifugation. The remaining supernatant was concentrated and loaded on Blue-Native gels to separate the native protein complexes according to their molecular mass. High molecular mass markers were run in parallel to estimate the molecular masses of the peripheral complexes (Fig.1 A). At the end of the electrophoretic run, three focused protein complexes were visible in the region of 350–600 kDa and their estimated molecular masses were 400 and 550 kDa (Fig. 1 A). Gel lanes were then excised and incubated in SDS, and the complexes were separated into their individual subunits by SDS-PAGE. Fig. 1 (B and C) show a silver-stained and Coomassie-stained gel of the 350- and 600-kDa region. In this molecular mass range, we detected two dominant complexes and one complex of lower abundance. Protein spots of each of the three complexes were picked from the gels and prepared for mass spectrometry analysis.  [[FIGURE]] Protein spots from the gels were digested with trypsin and the generated peptides were extracted and analyzed by MALDI-TOF MS. To identify the protein(s) in each spot, the experimentally determined peptide masses, were used to search the public sequence data bases (see “Experimental Procedures”). The largest complex was Rubisco (550 kDa) with the large (RbcL) and small subunit (RbcS), and the complex at 400 kDa was the ATP synthase complex CF1 (data not shown) (Fig. 1).  In the third, low abundant complex of ∼350 kDa, we could distinguish clearly seven protein spots after silver staining. These seven spots, as well as the gel material in between the spots were excised, such that nine slices, covering the range of 20–30 kDa, were collected. MALDI-TOF MS spectra were obtained from all of them, resulting in the identification of at least one protein per gel slice (Table I). From the MALDI-TOF MS data, it became clear that the 350-kDa complex contains several Clp proteins, suggesting we had purified a chloroplast Clp complex with several isoforms. To obtain further confirmation of these identities and to search for additional proteins in the spots, the remainder of each peptide extract was analyzed by nano-electrospray MS/MS to generate sequence tags. The precursor and fragment ions masses were then used to search NCBI directly (see “Experimental Procedures”). Additionally, all MS/MS spectra were interpreted into amino acid sequences, to search the Arabidopsis data base with FASTA and thus to allow for errors in gene annotation (see below and “Discussion”).  [[TABLE]] To illustrate this identification process, the MALDI-TOF MS spectrum and some of the MS/MS spectra obtained from spot 2 is shown in Fig.2. Fig. 2 A shows the MALDI-TOF spectrum from spot number 2, which contained a mixture of four different Clp proteins (Table I). In the spectrum we annotated 70 monoisotopic masses in the m/z region from 800 to 3300. Nine experimental peptide masses matched to the ClpS1 protein (formerly annotated as hypothetical protein) and covered in total 44% of the primary sequence. The more intense matching peptides are indicated in the spectrum (Fig. 2 A). Ten of the peptides in the MALDI spectrum matched to the nClpP5 protein, providing a sequence coverage of 34%. Also ClpP1 (formerly pClpP) protein was identified with confidence in this protein spot, as five peptides matched with 34% coverage. Finally, the MALDI data indicated the possible presence of a fourth Clp protein, ClpP6, but since only three experimental peptides matched (with 17% coverage), this identification clearly needed confirmation (see below). None of the experimental peptide masses matched to the predicted signal peptides of ClpS1, nClpP1 and nClpP6, in agreement with the notion that processing of the chloroplast transit peptide of all nuclear encoded proteins occurs rapidly (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] After the MALDI-TOF analysis the remainder of the extracted peptides were analyzed by tandem MS. Fig. 2 B shows the full scan spectrum in the MS mode (m/z range of 400–1200) of spot 2. In the electrospray spectrum doubly charged, as well as triply charged peptides, were detected (Fig. 2 B). Several of these multiple charged peptides were further fragmented along the protein backbone by collision-induced dissociation. Fig. 2 C shows the MS/MS spectrum of the doubly charged peptides at m/z 848.4 [M + 2H]2+. The complete y ion series (from y1 to y15) could be assigned, as indicated (y ions contain the C terminus of the precursor ion; for a detailed explanation, see, e.g., Refs. CITATION and CITATION). The experimentally determined peptide sequence (by reading the sequence from y15 to y1) matched to ClpP1 (formerly pClpP) ofArabidopsis. This identification was further confirmed by another sequence tag from the triply charged peptide withm/z 1032.9 (see Table I).  The mass spectrometry analysis of the nine spots resulted in the positive identification of 10 different Clp proteins. In this section we will briefly describe their identification. At this point it is important to comment on the nomenclature of the Clp proteins in higher plants. In agreement with a suggestion for nomenclature of chloroplast proteases (CITATION), we have renamed a number of the Clp genes, based on the presence (or absence) of functional domains and conform the homology to E. coliand Synechocystis PCC6803 Clp genes. This is summarized in Table I and in the section below. One accession number per Clp protein is indicated in the main part of Table I; redundant entries are listed as footnotes, and discrepancies between the sequences are noted (TableI). The region between 20 and 30 kDa was divided completely in nine individual slices (spots). Since the spots are very close to each other and in some cases clearly overlapping, it is not surprising that indeed overlap in identities between neighboring spots was found (see below).  Spots 1 and 2 are the most intensely stained spots both with Silver and Coomassie staining (Fig. 1, B and C). Spot 1 contained the chloroplast-encoded subunit pClpP (here reassigned ClpP1), which was identified by six matching peptides MALDI-TOF MS with a total coverage of 33% and confirmed by one sequence tag. Spot 2 contained ClpP1 (formerly pClpP) as well as ClpP5 (formerly ClpP1) and a new Clp protein, here assigned ClpS1 (see “Discussion” and phylogenetic trees). These three proteins were identified by MALDI-TOF and confirmed by MS/MS (Fig. 2, A and B). In addition, we identified ClpP6 by one sequence tag, which was further strengthened by three matching peptide masses detected by MALDI-TOF MS.  Spots 3 and 4 contained ClpP5 with four matching peptides providing 26% of coverage and confirmed by five sequence tags, as well as ClpP2 (formerly annotated as Clp-like) identified by three sequence tags. ClpP2 was also identified in spots 5 by several sequence tags, as well as five matching peptides in MALDI TOF MS. Spot 6 contained ClpR2 (formerly annotated as nClpP2), as determined by eight matching peptides with 30% of coverage, and confirmed by three sequence tags. ClpR2 is interesting in that it has lost its catalytic site and was therefore renamed as ClpR (see below and “Discussion”).  Spots 7 and 8 have a partial overlap. Spot 7 contained mostly ClpP4 (formerly nClpP4), as was evident from eight matching peptides providing 56% of coverage and confirmed by four sequence tags. In addition, this protein spot also contains some ClpR3 (formerly nClpP8), as identified by MS/MS. Spot 8 contains ClpP4 with nine matching peptides with 32% of coverage, confirmed by one sequence tag, ClpR1 (formerly nClpP5) with nine matching peptides with 24% of coverage and ClpR3 (nClpP8) with nine matching peptides, 22% of coverage and confirmed by one sequence tag.  Finally, spot 9 had a partial overlap with spot 8 and contained ClpR3 (formerly nClpP8), ClpR1 (nClp5), and ClpP3. ClpP3 was identified by seven matching peptides in MALDI-TOF MS, covering 34% of the predicted sequence, and was confirmed by a sequence tag in MS/MS.  During the identification process of the Clp genes, we encountered several discrepancies between the experimentally determined amino acid sequences and the predicted proteins from genomic sequence. Therefore, all predicted sequences were searched against the EST data bases to verify if these discrepancies result form incorrect intron/exon boundary prediction (since cDNAs have no introns) and also to identify possible discrepancies resulting from sequencing errors. Such mistakes in protein prediction were found in case of ClpR3, ClpS, as well as other Clp proteins not present in the complex (see “Discussion”), and after correction, the experimentally determined amino acid sequences matched to the predicted proteins (Fig.3).  [[FIGURE]] To arrive at the (most likely) correct protein sequence of ClpR3, three stretches of protein sequence were removed (resulting from incorrect intron boundary prediction and totaling 36 amino acid residues) and three stretches of sequence (totaling 75 amino acid residues) were inserted or added to the C terminus (Fig. 3 A). Two of the experimentally determined sequences overlapped with the inserted amino acid sequence. After this correction, the predicted protein increased from 331 amino acid residues to 370 amino acid residues, thus adding ∼4.3 kDa to the predicted molecular mass. In case of ClpS1, 14 amino acids were added to the C terminus of the predicted protein sequence (Fig. 3 B).  To ensure and demonstrate that we were able to discriminate between the different ClpP and ClpR proteins, we aligned the ClpP1–6 and ClpR1–3 proteins and we have indicated the matching amino acid sequence tags determined by MS/MS (Fig. 4). Clearly, the MS/MS tags were unique for each protein, and, combined with the corresponding MALDI-TOF MS analysis, this shows that the proteins were positively identified with high certainty. The alignment also demonstrates the extent of conservation and the presence (ClpP1–6) or absence (ClpR1–3) of the catalytic triad (see “Discussion” and phylogenetic trees). ClpS1 (Fig. 3 B) shows no strong homology and seems quite distant from the other identified Clp genes in the complex (see “Discussion” and phylogenetic trees) and was therefore not included in the alignment.  [[FIGURE]] From the mass spectrometry analysis, we determined that the 350-kDa complex is a Clp protease complex with one chloroplast-encoded subunit (ClpP1) and nine nuclear-encoded subunits (five ClpP proteins, three ClpR proteins, and ClpS1). All the nuclear-encoded proteins are synthesized as precursor proteins with an N-terminal chloroplast signal peptide, which is cleaved off after import into the chloroplast. The chloroplast signal peptide has a number of distinct features but no conserved primary sequence, and can be used to predict chloroplast localization with moderate to good confidence (CITATION, CITATION). To evaluate the chloroplast localization of the identified Clp proteins, the primary amino acid sequences were analyzed by the localization prediction programs TargetP and Predotar.  All identified Clp genes, except ClpP2, were predicted to be chloroplast localized by TargetP with high degree of confidence (0.72 < p < 0.97) (Table I). Since ClpP2 is clearly part of the same complex as the other subunits, it was surprising to find that this protein is predicted to be in the mitochondria. However, BLAST searching with this Arabidopsisprotein identified several ESTs from rice, barley, and wheat; assembly of several overlapping ESTs for each of these plant species resulted in the identification of three Clp genes with high homology toArabidopsis ClpP2 (Fig. 5). TargetP, predicted that all three proteins are localized in the chloroplast, whereas the Arabidopsis gene was predicted (but with ambiguity) to be in the mitochondria (Fig. 5). The alignment strongly suggests that the Arabidopsis protein sequence in the data base is truncated at the N terminus in the chloroplast transit peptide (∼34 amino acids are missing) (Fig. 5). We could not (yet) identify an EST covering the N terminus and the genome sequence allows for several possible initiating methionines. With the search program Predotar, ClpP2 of wheat and barley were also predicted to be localized in the chloroplast, whereas the rice protein was predicted to be neither in the chloroplast nor in the mitochondrion.  [[FIGURE]] After the corrections of the predicted protein sequence from genomic nucleotide sequence data and removal of the predicted transit peptide, most of the predicted molecular masses fitted with the position on the SDS-PAGE gel. This further strengthened all identifications as well as the chloroplast localization. However, the predicted size of ClpR1, which was identified by a strong set of MS data, seems to be several kDa larger than expected from the SDS-PAGE gel and warrants further analysis. Additionally, the sequence alignment in Fig. 4 indicates that ClpR1 has an extended N-terminal region, as compared with the other ClpP and ClpR proteins, but no cDNA sequence data are available to verify the N terminus of ClpR1. 
!~MM~!  A. thaliana, ecotype Columbia, was grown on soil in a temperature-controlled growth chamber under a 10/14-h light dark cycle, at 21 °C/16 °C light/dark temperatures at a light intensity of about 100 μmol of photons m− 2 s− 1.  Leaves from Arabidopsis were homogenized in ice-cold medium A (50 mm Hepes-KOH, pH 7.5, 100 mm sorbitol, 5 mm MgCl2, 50 μg/ml Pefabloc, 2 μg/ml antipain, 2 μg/ml leupeptin), filtered through four layers of Miracloth (22 μm), and centrifuged for 3 min at 9000 × g. Thylakoid pellets were resuspended in medium A and centrifuged on a Percoll gradient (0–90%) in medium A for 4 min at 3000 × g. The thylakoid band was collected and washed three times in the same medium A. Thylakoids were passed twice through the Yeda press (at 100 bar), and thylakoid membranes were subsequently removed by ultracentrifugation (60 min at 150,000 × g). The membrane-free supernatant was collected and concentrated to ∼20 mg protein·ml− 1. Samples were then mixed with an equal volume of 50 mm caproic acid, 50 mmBis-Tris, pH 7.0, 15% glycerol, 0.2% Coomassie Brilliant Blue G-250, and separated on gradient (4 -12% acrylamide) Blue-Native gels (CITATION) at 4 °C. Molecular mass complexes ranging from 67 to 669 kDa (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) were loaded for calibration of the gels. Gel lanes were then cut out and equilibrated twice for 20 min in SDS solubilization buffer (containing 6 m urea, 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 30% glycerol and 2% SDS; 5 mm tributylphosphine). Proteins were separated on 8–16% acrylamide Tricine gels (CITATION). Gels were stained using Coomassie Brilliant Blue R-250 or silver nitrate (CITATION, CITATION).  Stained protein spots were excised from the gel, washed, reduced, alkylated using iodoacetamide, and digested with modified trypsin (Promega), according to Ref. CITATION. The peptides were then extracted and dissolved in 20 μl of 5% formic acid and applied to the MALDI-TOF target plate by the dried droplet method using α-cyano-4-hydrocynnamic acid as matrix. When necessary, the samples were concentrated using microcolumns (CITATION) and eluted directly onto the MALDI target. The mass spectra were obtained using a MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer (REFLEX II from Bruker Daltonics and Voyager-DE-STR from Perseptive Biosystems Inc.). The spectra were annotated with the program “m/z” from Proteometrics and internally calibrated using tryptic peptides from autodigestion. The latest versions of the NCBI nonredundant data base were searched with the resulting peptide mass lists, using the search engine ProFound. The search strategy was in principle as described previously (CITATION).  To further analyze the samples, the remainder of the extracted peptides were desalted and concentrated on microcolumns (Poros R2, PE Biosystems) and eluted directly into nanoelectrospray needles (Protana A/S, Odense, Denmark) with 1.2 μl of 50% MeOH and 1% formic acid (CITATION). The spectra were acquired on an electrospray tandem mass spectrometer (Q-TOF Micromass). The instrument was calibrated with 1 μg/μl NaI in 50% isopropanol. Alternatively the spectra were used to search the public data bases with the program Mascot. Alternatively, the MS/MS spectra were interpreted using MassLynx and PepSeq (Micromass) and were used to search different public data bases using FASTA3.  Predictions for chloroplast localization, chloroplast, and lumenal transit peptides were made using the search engines TargetP and Predotar.  First, the sequences were grouped into clades of those where homologous relationships could be established, using the union find algorithm applied with 20% and 30% identity threshold. This type of approach has been employed in establishing clusters of genes or proteins in various data bases (CITATION, CITATION).  For the tree building of all the Arabidopsis Clp genes, two distinct clades were identified. In both clades, sequences were identified using a 20% cutoff, but not a 30% cutoff and were excluded from further phylogenetic study. For both clades, multiple sequence alignments were constructed using ClustalW. Additional multi-alignments were done using MultAlin. Using these multiple sequence alignments in PHYLIP, phylogenetic trees were calculated using maximum likelihood (Molphy) parsimony and two distance based methods (neighbor joining and UPGMA) with bootstrap values to test the statistical robustness of the trees (CITATION). Relationships that were present in all of the tree methodologies supported by bootstrap values >95% by at least one methodology are depicted, whereas more ambiguous relationships are presented as start clusters. A box is placed over the central start, where homology cannot be established based upon sequence alone. A second tree using ClpP/R sequences from Arabidopsis,Synechocystis, and Synechococcus was built using ClustalW alignment and both neighbor-joining and maximum likelihood trees, which were alike. 
