!~ABS~! In plant mitochondria, some of the tRNAs are encoded by the mitochondrial genome and resemble their prokaryotic counterparts, whereas the remaining tRNAs are encoded by the nuclear genome and imported from the cytosol. Generally, mitochondrial isoacceptor tRNAs all have the same genetic origin. One known exception to this rule is the group of tRNAGly isoacceptors in dicotyledonous plants. A mitochondrion-encoded tRNAGly and at least one nucleus-encoded tRNAGly coexist in the mitochondria of these plants, and both are required to allow translation of all four GGN glycine codons. We have taken advantage of this atypical situation to address the problem of tRNA/aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase coevolution in plants. In this work, we show that two different nucleus-encoded glycyl-tRNA synthetases (GlyRSs) are imported into Arabidopsis thalianaand Phaseolus vulgaris mitochondria. The first one, GlyRS-1, is similar to human or yeast glycyl-tRNA synthetase, whereas the second, GlyRS-2, is similar to Escherichia coliglycyl-tRNA synthetase. Both enzymes are dual targeted, GlyRS-1 to mitochondria and to the cytosol and GlyRS-2 to mitochondria and chloroplasts. Unexpectedly, GlyRS-1 seems to be active in the cytosol but inactive in mitochondrial fractions, whereas GlyRS-2 is likely to glycylate both the organelle-encoded tRNAGly and the imported tRNAGly present in mitochondria. 
!~RES~! By analysis of cDNAs and inverse PCR products, we characterized a eukaryotic-type GlyRS gene in A. thaliana(GenBankTM accession number AJ002062) (CITATION), and we termed this gene GlyRS-1. For this, an A. thaliana cDNA library (Strasbourg, France) was screened using as a probe an A. thaliana expressed sequence tag clone (GenBankTM accession number 117F7T7) (CITATION) showing similarity with known GlyRS genes. Several incomplete cDNAs, lacking the 5′ end, were recovered from this screening. The 5′ region of the gene (Fig.1 A) was cloned from A. thaliana genomic DNA by using inverse PCR. Southern blot analysis (CITATION) of total A. thaliana DNA digested with PstI,BglII, or EcoRI suggested that theGlyRS-1 gene is a single copy gene (data not shown), which was confirmed with the availability of the complete A. thaliana genomic sequence ((32); see the ArabidopsisGenome Initiative web site). A second gene showing similarities with GlyRS-1 and other eukaryotic GlyRS sequences was previously identified in the A. thaliana genome (GenBankTM accession number AC002534). However, this second gene was considered to be a pseudogene, because the sequence is partial, it contains a number of frameshifts, and no corresponding expressed sequence tags could be detected.  The full GlyRS-1 coding sequence is 729 amino acids long. It is similar to other known eukaryotic GlyRS sequences (more than 45% amino acid identity and 60% similarity with Homo sapiens, Bombyx mori, and Caenorhabditis elegans GlyRS sequences) and presents no obvious similarity with prokaryotic GlyRS sequences such as the E. coli GlyRS, suggesting a cytosolic localization. A multiple alignment of GlyRS sequences is available on our web site devoted to A. thaliana tRNAs and aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (web site address available from the corresponding author). The high level of similarity between GlyRS-1 and eukaryotic GlyRSs suggests that the native enzyme probably has an α2 quaternary structure, like other eukaryotic GlyRSs. The presence of a mitochondrial targeting peptide at the N-terminal end of the coding sequence was predicted by computer analysis. MITOPROT, Predotar, PSORT, and TargetP gave a score of 0.88, 0.90, 0.76, and 0.91, respectively, for a mitochondrial localization. Alignment of the GlyRS-1 amino acid sequence with that of the other GlyRS sequences starts around the end of the potential targeting sequence. It should also be noticed that a dual localization in the cytosol and in mitochondria was proposed for two homologs of GlyRS-1, in humans (CITATION, CITATION) and in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (CITATION).  Expression of the GlyRS-1 gene was investigated by primer extension. The results shown in Fig. 1 B indicate that there are two major transcripts with different 5′ ends that map 22 nucleotides upstream and 15 nucleotides downstream, respectively, of the first putative AUG initiation codon. The sequence shows a second in-frame AUG, 40 codons downstream of the first initiator AUG. This second AUG maps near the position corresponding to the C-terminal end of the predicted mitochondrial targeting peptide. The 5′ end of the shortest mRNA is located upstream of the second in-frame AUG codon, which could thus be used to initiate translation on this transcript, leading to the synthesis of a short, cytosolic form of GlyRS-1 (690 amino acids, 76 kDa). Translation of the long transcript could generate a long protein (729 amino acids, 80 kDa) with a putative mitochondrial targeting peptide.  An expressed GlyRS gene of prokaryotic-type (GenBankTMaccession number AJ003069) was characterized by Uwer et al.(CITATION) upon analysis of an A. thaliana embryo development mutant due to a unique insertion of a DsA transposable element. The corresponding protein, which is 1068 amino acids long, has no significant similarity with GlyRS-1 but presents regions similar to the α and β subunits of E. coli GlyRS (59% identity with the α subunit and 36% identity with the β subunit), so that a dimeric structure of GlyRS-2 would reflect the tetrameric α2β2 structure of E. coli GlyRS. An alignment of the GlyRS-2 sequence with other GlyRS sequences is also available on our web site. Prediction of the subcellular localization run with ChloroP, Predotar, and TargetP gave a score of 0.57, 0.98, and 0.82, respectively, for a chloroplastic localization of GlyRS-2, and this enzyme was indeed shown to be imported into chloroplasts (CITATION). However, the corresponding GlyRS mutant has an embryo lethal phenotype. Embryo growth was stopped between the globular and heart stages of embryonic development, and germination of mutant seeds was never observed. Such a phenotype was not expected for a plastid enzyme, and the function of this GlyRS during plastidic translation does not provide a direct hint to its role during embryogenesis (CITATION). Indeed, Uwer et al. (CITATION) did not exclude another localization, and further prediction analyses with MITOPROT gave a score of 0.95 for a mitochondrial localization of GlyRS-2. With PSORT, no clear prediction for mitochondrial or chloroplastic targeting was obtained.  As an in vivo approach to analyze the intracellular localization of GlyRS-1, the sequence encoding the first 65 amino acids of this enzyme was fused upstream to, and in frame with, an enhanced jellyfish (Aequorea victoria) GFP reporter gene. When transiently expressed inN. benthamiana cells, this construct yielded fluorescence associated with mitochondria (Fig. 2,panels 2a and 2b), demonstrating that the N terminus of GlyRS-1 is an active mitochondrial targeting peptidein vivo.  [[FIGURE]] Because potential dual targeting of GlyRS-2 to mitochondria and chloroplasts was predicted by computer analyses, a similar approach was developed for this enzyme. The sequence encoding the first 81 amino acids of the GlyRS-2 polypeptide was fused in frame to the 5′ end of the GFP gene. When this construct was expressed in N. benthamiana cells, fluorescence was associated with both chloroplasts and mitochondria (Fig. 2, panels 3a,3b, and 3c), indicating that the GlyRS-2 presequence is able to promote dual targeting to both organellesin vivo.  The large size of the GlyRS-1 (80 kDa) and GlyRS-2 (117 kDa) polypeptides was expected to be unfavorable both for coupled in vitrotranscription/translation and for in vitro import into mitochondria. Thus, these experiments were carried out with constructs corresponding to fusions between the GlyRS N-terminal sequences and GFP. In vitro transcription/translation of the chimeric genes yielded a 32-kDa fusion protein for the GlyRS-1 construct (Fig.3 A, lane 1) and a 35-kDa product for the GlyRS-2 construct (Fig. 3 B,lane 1). In the presence of mitochondria, these products were partially processed into polypeptides of 27 and 30 kDa, respectively (Fig. 3, A and B, lane 2), which corresponded to the M r of the fusion proteins upon cleavage of the predicted GlyRS targeting sequence. The addition of proteinase K to the import medium reduced the signals corresponding to the preproteins but did not affect the signals corresponding to the processed proteins that were protected (Fig. 3,A and B, lane 3). The addition of valinomycin, which is known to inhibit mitochondrial protein import, prevented the formation of the processed proteins (Fig. 3, Aand B, lanes 4 and 5). When the same experiment was performed with unfused GFP, no interaction with mitochondria was observed, because no labeled protein was associated with mitochondria after incubation and centrifugation through a sucrose cushion (data not shown). These results showed that the GlyRS-1 and GlyRS-2 presequences can promote in vitro protein import into isolated mitochondria.  [[FIGURE]] The cytosolic form of GlyRS-1 was overexpressed inE. coli and purified to raise polyclonal antibodies. Western blots were performed with A. thaliana total and mitochondrial proteins. Cross-contaminations were checked with antisera against mitochondrial superoxide dismutase (Fig.4 IB) for mitochondrial contamination or α-tubulin (Fig. 4 IC) for cytosolic contamination. An immunoreactive protein of about 76 kDa was detected both in total and in mitochondrial protein extracts when using the antiserum against GlyRS-1 (Fig. 4 IA). The size of the detected protein was in accordance with the calculatedM r of the cytosolic form and the processed mitochondrial form of the enzyme. Faster migrating polypeptides revealed with the GlyRS-1 antiserum in mitochondrial extracts (Fig.4 IA) might reflect some degradation.  [[FIGURE]] An immunoreactive protein of the same size was also found in the cytosol and in mitochondria when using bean total and mitochondrial enzymatic extracts in Western blot analyses with the GlyRS-1 antiserum (Fig. 4 IIA). This observation implies that a homolog ofA. thaliana GlyRS-1 is present in bean and is dual targeted to the cytosol and to mitochondria, although it does not completely exclude the possibility that the cytosolic form and the mitochondrial form derive from two highly similar genes in bean. Cross-contaminations between cytosolic and mitochondrial extracts were checked as before (Fig. 4, IIB and IIC), whereas chloroplastic contamination was checked with an antiserum against chloroplast leucyl-tRNA synthetase (Fig. 4 IID). Based on these observations, further experiments were developed with protein extracts from bean, because isolation of clean A. thalianamitochondria was quite inefficient. Isolated bean mitochondria were treated with proteinase K before protein extraction. Such a treatment strongly reduced residual cytosolic contamination, as checked by immunodetection with the α-tubulin antiserum (Fig. 4 IIIC), but did not affect the signal obtained with the antibodies against GlyRS-1 (Fig. 4 IIIA), confirming that GlyRS-1 was present inside mitochondria. Submitochondrial localization of GlyRS-1 was then analyzed. Isolated bean mitochondria were lysed, and total membranes were separated from the soluble fraction by centrifugation. GlyRS-1 was essentially detected in the soluble fraction by Western blot analysis (Fig. 4 IV). Finally, mitochondria were submitted to an osmotic shock to release the outer membrane, which was separated from the remaining mitoplasts on a step gradient. Lysis of the mitoplasts and centrifugation allowed us to recover the matrix and the inner membrane fraction. GlyRS-1 was found only in the matrix fraction and was not significantly associated with the outer membrane or the inner membrane (Fig. 4 IV).  Following Western blot analysis (Fig. 4 II), the enzymatic extracts from bean leaves, mitochondria and chloroplasts, as well as an enzymatic extract from anE. coli strain overexpressing the cytosolic form of A. thaliana GlyRS-1, were fractionated by chromatography on a hydrophobic column (POROS 20 PE) in standardized conditions. Proteins were eluted with a decreasing ammonium sulfate gradient. Collected fractions were tested for GlyRS activity using E. coli or yeast tRNAs and [3H]glycine as substrates and submitted to immunodetection with the antiserum against GlyRS-1. The activity of the overexpressed GlyRS-1 reached its maximum in fractions 12–14 of the elution profile and was followed by a second peak corresponding toE. coli GlyRS (Fig.5 A). GlyRS-1 efficiently glycylated yeast tRNAs but very poorly glycylated E. colitRNAs. Two peaks of GlyRS activity were also obtained with enzymatic extracts from bean leaves (Fig. 5 B). The first peak matched the elution of the overexpressed GlyRS-1 (Fig. 5 A), reaching its maximum with fractions 13/14 and showing efficient glycylation of yeast tRNAs versus E. coli tRNAs. The presence of the bean GlyRS-1 in these fractions was confirmed by Western blot analysis using anti-GlyRS-1 antibodies (Fig. 5 C). It should be noted that the high ammonium sulfate concentrations present in the fractions at that point of the gradient were inhibitory for aminoacylation, and desalting of fractions 12–15 resulted in a 7-fold higher activity. The second peak of GlyRS activity, which reached its maximum with fractions 29/30, corresponded to glycylation of either yeast or E. coli tRNAs, with a more efficient recognition of the latter (Fig. 5 B). Similar results were obtained with an enzymatic extract from green A. thaliana plantlets (data not shown), thus validating the use of bean for these analyses. Chromatographic fractionation of bean chloroplast enzymatic extracts, which were supposed to contain GlyRS-2 (CITATION), on the hydrophobic column yielded only one peak of GlyRS activity (Fig. 5 D), corresponding to the second peak in the elution profile obtained with enzymatic extracts from bean leaves. This peak, with a maximum GlyRS activity in fractions 28–30 and a better recognition of E. coli tRNAs versus yeast tRNAs, was therefore likely to be representative of GlyRS-2. Finally, the elution profile obtained upon fractionation of bean mitochondrial enzymatic extracts (Fig.5 E) was the same as for chloroplast extracts, showing only one peak of GlyRS activity, which matched the presumed GlyRS-2 elution. Together with the in vivo targeting analyses (Fig. 2) and the in vitro import experiments (Fig. 3), these results imply that GlyRS-2 is dual targeted to both chloroplasts and mitochondria. Unexpectedly, the peak of GlyRS-1 activity detected upon fractionation of enzymatic extracts from bean leaves or A. thaliana plantlets could not be recovered upon hydrophobic chromatography of bean mitochondrial extracts, although in vivo targeting studies (Fig. 2), in vitro import experiments (Fig. 3), and Western blot analyses (Fig. 4) had unambiguously shown the import of GlyRS-1 into mitochondria. Moreover, the GlyRS-1 protein was clearly detected in the bean mitochondrial enzymatic extracts prior to chromatographic fractionation (Fig.4 IIA). Probing with the anti-GlyRS-1 antiserum revealed that, during hydrophobic chromatography of mitochondrial extracts, elution of the GlyRS-1 polypeptide occurred at the very end of the fractionation (around fraction 32; Fig. 5 F), while washing the column with buffer devoid of ammonium sulfate, and not in fractions 13/14 as expected (see Fig. 5, B and C). Elution from this type of column occurs according to the hydrophobic characteristics of the proteins. From these experiments, it seems that GlyRS-1 is active and quite hydrophilic in cytosolic extracts but becomes inactive and hydrophobic in mitochondrial extracts.  [[FIGURE]] To determine to what extent the above behavior of GlyRS-1 was an effect due to the hydrophobic column, enzymatic extracts from bean leaves and mitochondria were fractionated by chromatography on an anion exchange column (UNO-Q1). As done previously, an enzymatic extract from anE. coli strain overexpressing the cytosolic form of A. thaliana GlyRS-1 was used as a control. The overexpressed GlyRS-1 was eluted in fractions 9–13 (Fig.6 A). With the bean leaf extract, two peaks of GlyRS activity were again obtained (Fig.6 B). One peak reached its maximum with fraction 10, matching the elution of GlyRS-1 (Fig. 6 A) and showing an efficient glycylation of yeast tRNAs. The second peak reached its maximum with fraction 16, with a more efficient glycylation of E. coli versus yeast tRNAs. Anti-GlyRS-1 antibodies gave a signal with fractions 10–12 on Western blots (Fig. 6 C). This suggested that the first peak corresponded to GlyRS-1 and the second to GlyRS-2. With the bean mitochondrial extract, still only one peak of activity, corresponding to GlyRS-2, was obtained (Fig. 6 D). In this case, the GlyRS-1 polypeptide was detected by Western blotting in the fractions around fraction 12 (Fig. 6 E), as expected from the profile obtained with the total leaf extract, but no detectable activity was associated with these fractions even in the presence of bean total or mitochondrial tRNAs.  [[FIGURE]] Based on quantitative analysis of the signals on Western blots, the absence of GlyRS-1 activity in the chromatographic profiles of mitochondrial extracts was unlikely to reflect a too weak concentration of the enzyme in the column fractions. The absence of GlyRS-1 activity could not be explained by an effect of the chromatography, because similar results were obtained with two different types of column. As a further step toward understanding these unexpected observations made with dicotyledons, we switched the analyses to another class of plants. According to the data available for wheat (Triticum aestivum) and maize (Zea mays), all mitochondrial tRNAsGly seem to be imported from the cytosol in monocotyledonous angiosperms (CITATION, CITATION). An active GlyRS of cytosolic type, like GlyRS-1, was therefore expected to be present in mitochondria of monocotyledons, considering substrate specificity and tRNA/aaRS coevolution. Wheat total (data not shown) and mitochondrial (Fig. 6, F and G) enzymatic extracts were prepared and fractionated on the anion exchange column. The same elution profiles were obtained for both extracts, showing two peaks of GlyRS activity. The first peak reached its maximum in fraction 12 (Fig.6 F), and the anti-GlyRS-1 antibodies recognized in these fractions a polypeptide of the expected size (Fig. 6 G), suggesting the existence of an active equivalent of the bean andA. thaliana GlyRS-1 in wheat, both in the cytosol and in mitochondria. The inactivation of GlyRS-1 in mitochondrial extracts therefore appeared not to be a systematic behavior of the enzyme or an artifact produced by our experimental procedures. However, it was obvious from the column elution profiles (Fig. 6 F) that, even in wheat, GlyRS-1 makes a very minor contribution to the total GlyRS activity present in mitochondria. The main activity showed up as a second peak having its maximum in fractions 15–17. The shouldered shape of this second peak, the aminoacylation ratio of yeastversus E. coli tRNAs along the different fractions, and the fact that recognition of a wheat-specific polypeptide smaller than GlyRS-1 by the anti-GlyRS-1 antibodies preferentially matched the second half of the peak (Fig. 6 G) raised the possibility that at least two other forms of GlyRS are present in wheat mitochondria.  Fractions containing only GlyRS-1 activity obtained upon chromatography of a bean total enzymatic extract on either the hydrophobic or the anion exchange column were used to characterize the tRNA recognition specificity of GlyRS-1. A bean chloroplast enzymatic extract, which contained only GlyRS-2, was used to characterize the tRNA recognition specificity of GlyRS-2. Despite its prokaryotic features revealed by a strong similarity to the bacterial GlyRS, GlyRS-2 was able to glycylate bean total (mainly cytosolic), chloroplastic, and mitochondrial tRNAs with little difference in efficiency (Fig.7 A). Moreover, the aminoacylation efficiency in the presence of GlyRS-2 was the same forin vitro transcripts of a mitochondrial tRNAGly(GCC), a cytosolic tRNAGly(UCC), and a cytosolic tRNAGly(GCC) (Fig. 7 C). GlyRS-2 would therefore be sufficient to charge both the native, organelle-encoded tRNAGly(GCC) and the imported tRNAGly(UCC) in mitochondria of dicotyledonous plants, unless post-transcriptional modifications not present in our in vitro transcripts alter tRNA recognition in vivo (e.g. Ref. CITATION). By contrast, aminoacylation of bean chloroplastic or mitochondrial tRNAs in the presence of GlyRS-1 appeared to be five times less efficient, as compared with bean total tRNAs (Fig. 7 A). GlyRS-1 was also three times less efficient in glycylating the in vitromitochondrial tRNAGly(GCC) transcript versus the two cytosolic tRNAGly transcripts.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~!  A. thaliana total DNA was extracted from whole plants according to Dellaporta et al. (CITATION), digested with BglII, self-ligated, and used as a template for PCR amplification (CITATION) with divergent oligonucleotides AM10 (5′-GCGGGATCCGGATCGGAGCGATGGAGATTGGG-3′; theBamHI site for cloning is underlined) and AM12 (5′-CGCTCTAGAGGCTTCCCGTGCAGCTAAACCAG-3′; theXbaI site for cloning is underlined) (see Fig.1 A).  [[FIGURE]] Total RNA was extracted from 3-week-oldA. thaliana plants (CITATION), and poly(A+) RNA was prepared using a PolyATtract mRNA isolation system IV kit (Promega, Madison, WI). Primer extensions were performed with oligonucleotide AM16 (5′-GGATCGGAGCGATGGAGATTGGG-3′) (see Fig.1 A) and with 1 μg of poly(A+) RNA or 12 μg of total RNA (CITATION). Sequencing reactions were primed with oligonucleotide AM16 (CITATION).  Predictions of intracellular targeting of proteins were made using ChloroP, MITOPROT, Predotar, PSORT, or TargetP. Isolation of organelles from A. thaliana plants gave a very poor yield, and extensive cytosolic contamination was observed. Organelles were therefore mainly isolated from bean, and to a lesser extent from wheat and potato. Mitochondria were extracted from 3-week-old A. thaliana plants, from 5-day-old etiolated bean hypocotyls or wheat plantlets, or from potato tubers in extraction buffers containing 0.6m mannitol, 0.3 m sucrose, or 0.3 mmannitol, respectively, as an osmoticum (CITATION) and were purified on continuous polyvinylpyrrolidone/Percoll gradients (CITATION). ForA. thaliana mitochondria, a second, discontinuous polyvinylpyrrolidone/Percoll gradient was necessary to reduce cytosolic contamination (CITATION). Chloroplasts were extracted from leaves of 6-day-old bean plants (CITATION).  For protease treatment, mitochondria were incubated in the presence of 100 μg/ml proteinase K for 5 min at room temperature and 10 min on ice. Upon addition of 2 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, organelles were recovered by centrifugation through a cushion of 27% (w/v) sucrose, 20 mm Hepes-KOH, pH 7.5, 1 mmphenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. For subfractionation, mitochondria were resuspended in 5 mm potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.5, and incubated on ice for 20 min to disrupt the outer membrane. Gentle homogenizing with a plunger was applied several times during incubation to help release of the outer membrane. The suspension was subsequently loaded on a 15/32/45/52% sucrose step gradient in a 10 mmpotassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.5, containing 2 mm EDTA and 0.2% (w/v) bovine serum albumin and centrifuged for 20 min at 125,000 × g. The outer membrane fraction and the mitoplasts were recovered at the 15/32% interface and the 45/52% interface, respectively. Both were washed in 10 mmpotassium phosphate, pH 7.5, 0.3 m sucrose, 1 mm EDTA, 0.1% (w/v) bovine serum albumin, 5 mmglycine and pelleted for 10 min at 175,000 × g. Mitoplasts were resuspended in the same buffer and disrupted by three freeze/thaw cycles and two sonication cycles of 10 s. The suspension was successively centrifuged for 5 min at 2500 ×g, to eliminate the remaining undisrupted material, and for 30 min at 175,000 × g, to separate the inner membrane fraction from the matrix.  Denatured protein extracts for SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis were prepared in 10 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 5 mm EDTA, 0.3% (w/v) SDS, 5% (v/v) β-mercaptoethanol. Enzymatic extracts for aminoacylation and chromatography were prepared according to Maréchal-Drouard et al. (CITATION).  Aminoacylations (CITATION) were performed in the presence of 10− 4 m[3H]glycine and 3 μg/μl yeast or Escherichia coli total tRNA, 0.15 μg/μl bean total leaf, mitochondrial, or chloroplastic tRNA (CITATION), or 0.04 μg/μl in vitrotranscribed tRNAGly.  The sequence corresponding to the N terminus of GlyRS-1 (nucleotides 616–810 in Fig. 1 A) was amplified by PCR using the A. thaliana cDNA as a template and oligonucleotides SIGM.5 (5′-GATCTCTAGAAAAATGCGCATCTTCTCTACA-3′; theXbaI site is underlined) and SIGM.3 (5′-CATGCTCGAGAGTTACCCTGAGCTTCGAC-3′; the XhoI site is underlined). To fuse this sequence with the GFP gene, the PCR products were cloned into the SpeI/SalI sites of pOL-GFP-S65C (CITATION), generating pSYGM in which the first AUG of the GlyRS-1 sequence was in a favorable context for initiation of translation. The sequence corresponding to the N terminus of GlyRS-2 (GenBankTM accession number AJ003069, nucleotides 32–275) was amplified by PCR using A. thaliana total DNA as a template and oligonucleotides SIGO.5 (5′-GATCTCTAGAAAAATGGCCATCCTCCATT-3′; the XbaI site is underlined) and SIGO.3 (5′-CATGCTCGAGCCTGGAGGCGTTGAA-3′; the XhoI site is underlined). The PCR products were cloned into theSpeI/SalI sites of pOL-GFP-S65C, generating pSYGO. The complete expression cassette containing the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, the GFP fusion, and the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S terminator was cut out of pSYGM and pSYGO withHindIII and cloned into the binary vector pGPTV-kan (CITATION). The resulting plasmids, pNP7 and pNP8, respectively, were used to transform the Agrobacterium tumefaciens LBA4404 strain (Life Technologies, Inc.).  Transformation was performed by infiltration of Nicotiana benthamiana leaves (CITATION) with a suspension of A. tumefaciens carrying pNP7 or pNP8. After 25–30 h, protoplats were prepared (CITATION) from the infiltrated leaves. Protoplasts were stained with a mitochondria-specific dye (MitoTrackerTM, CMTMRos, Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) and analyzed using an epifluorescence microscope (CITATION).  The sequence corresponding to the N terminus of GlyRS-1 (nucleotides 616–742 in Fig. 1 A) was first amplified by PCR using the A. thaliana cDNA clone as a template and oligonucleotides AM26 (5′-CGCGCCATGGGCATCTTCTCTACATTCGTCTTTCATCGC-3′; theNcoI site is underlined) and AM36 (5′-CGCGGATCCTCGGCGTCAATCGGAATCTGGATC-3′; theBamHI site is underlined). This introduced a point mutation at position 735, replacing the second AUG codon with an AUU isoleucine codon. The PCR products were cloned into theNcoI/BamHI sites of pCK-GFP3 (CITATION), yielding a GFP fusion. The obtained plasmid was named pAM160. TheEcoRI/HindIII fragments from pAM160 and pSYGO (see above), which contained the tobacco etch virus translation leader, the GlyRS-1 or GlyRS-2 N terminus, the GFP gene, and the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S terminator, were cloned into pBlueScript-KS (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). These constructs were used as templates forin vitro transcription/translation carried out with a TNTTM coupled reticulocyte lysate system (Promega) in the presence of [35S]methionine. Import of35S-labeled fusion proteins into purified potato mitochondria was performed according to Wischmann and Schuster (CITATION) and analyzed by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.  The sequence of the cytosolic form (690 amino acids) of GlyRS-1 was amplified by PCR using the A. thaliana cDNA as a template and oligonucleotides AM19 (5′-CGCGCCATGGACGCCACCGAGCAGTCTCTC-3′; theNcoI site is underlined) and AM20 (5′-GGCGGATCCGTCTGCAGCAGCAGAAGAATG-3′; the BamHI site is underlined) and cloned into pQE60 (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). The resulting plasmid, pAM147, was used to transform theE. coli TG2 strain (CITATION). Overexpression in E. coli was induced with 2 mmisopropyl-1-thio-β-d-galactopyranoside. Protein extraction under denaturing conditions was performed according to the manufacturer's instructions. Extracts were fractionated by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The polypeptide corresponding to GlyRS-1 was electroeluted from the gels (CITATION) and injected into rabbits to raise antibodies. Alternately, native enzymatic extracts (CITATION) were prepared from the E. coli strain overexpressing GlyRS-1 and used for liquid chromatography fractionation.  Proteins were separated by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, electrotransferred onto ImmobilonTM-P membranes (Millipore, Bedford, MA), and submitted to immunological detection following classical protocols (CITATION). Antisera were used at a 1/5000 dilution. Antibodies against mitochondrial superoxide dismutase were a gift from Dirk Inzé(Gent, Belgium), and antibodies against α-tubulin were from Amersham Pharmacia Biotech. Antisera against bean chloroplastic leucyl-tRNA synthetase were obtained previously (CITATION). Binding of the primary antibodies was revealed by chemiluminescence using peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibodies and ECL reagents (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech).  Enzymatic extracts were fractionated by medium pressure chromatography on a 1-ml POROS 20 PE hydrophobic column (PerSeptive Biosystems, Framingham, MA) driven by a BioLogic integrated system (Bio-Rad). The samples (1 mg of proteins) adjusted to 1.5 m ammonium sulfate were loaded at 1 ml/min on the column equilibrated with a 20 mm Tris-HCl buffer, pH 7.5, containing 1.5 m ammonium sulfate, 1 mmMgCl2, 5% (v/v) 1,2-propanediol, 0.1 mm EDTA, 5 mm β-mercaptoethanol, 0.5 mmphenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 0.5 mmdiisopropylfluorophosphate. After washing with the same buffer (5 ml), elution was performed at 1 ml/min with a linear ammonium sulfate gradient (10 ml, 1.5 to 0 m). Fractions of 0.33 ml were collected, and aliquots were submitted to aminoacylation assays and Western blot analyses.  Enzymatic extracts were also fractionated on a 1.3-ml UNOTM-Q1 anion exchange column (Bio-Rad). The samples were loaded at 0.5 ml/min on the column equilibrated with a 20 mm Tris-HCl buffer, pH 7.5, containing 10 mmNaCl, 1 mm MgCl2, 5% (v/v) 1,2-propanediol, 0.1 mm EDTA, 5 mm β-mercaptoethanol, 0.5 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 0.5 mmdiisopropylfluorophosphate. Elution was performed at 0.7 ml/min with a 15-ml linear gradient from 10 to 500 mm NaCl, followed by a 5-ml linear gradient from 500 to 1000 mm NaCl. Fractions of 0.5 ml were collected.  Constructs encoding tRNAsGly were amplified by PCR with the relevant primers (see below) so that the tRNA gene sequence was directly fused to the T7 RNA polymerase promoter at the 5′ terminus and to aBstNI site at the 3′ terminus. PCR products were cloned into the EcoRI or EcoRI/BamHI sites of pUC19. After BstNI digestion, in vitrotranscription of these constructs with T7 RNA polymerase yielded mature sized, unmodified tRNA transcripts with a 3′ CCA end (CITATION). The following oligonucleotides were used as primers (EcoRI andBamHI sites are underlined; the T7 RNA polymerase promoter or BstNI site is in italics): for mitochondrial native tRNAGly(GCC), 5′ AGCAAGAATTC GAATTGTAATACGACTCACTATAGCGGAAATAGCTTAATGGTAG 3′ and 5′ GTACA GAATTC CCTGGAGCGGAAGGAGGGACTTGAAC 3′; for cytosolic tRNAGly(GCC), 5′ AGCAAGAATTC GAATTGTAATACGACTCACTATAGCACCAGTGGTCTAGTGGTAG 3′ and 5′ GTACAGAATTC CCTGGTGCACCAGCCGGGAATCGAAC 3′; for cytosolic tRNAGly(UCC), 5′ GCAAGAATTC GAATTGTAATACGACTCACTATAGCGTCTGTAGTCCAACGGTTAG 3′ and 5′ CGCGGATCC TGGTGCGTCTGCCGGGAGTCGAAC 3′. 
