!~ABS~! Among the events that accompanied the evolution of chloroplasts from their endosymbiotic ancestors was the host cell recruitment of the prokaryotic cell division protein FtsZ to function in chloroplast division. FtsZ, a structural homologue of tubulin, mediates cell division in bacteria by assembling into a ring at the midcell division site. In higher plants, two nuclear-encoded forms of FtsZ, FtsZ1 and FtsZ2, play essential and functionally distinct roles in chloroplast division, but whether this involves ring formation at the division site has not been determined previously. Using immunofluorescence microscopy and expression of green fluorescent protein fusion proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana, we demonstrate here that FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 localize to coaligned rings at the chloroplast midpoint. Antibodies specific for recognition of FtsZ1 or FtsZ2 proteins in Arabidopsis also recognize related polypeptides and detect midplastid rings in pea and tobacco, suggesting that midplastid ring formation by FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 is universal among flowering plants. Perturbation in the level of either protein in transgenic plants is accompanied by plastid division defects and assembly of FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 into filaments and filament networks not observed in wild-type, suggesting that previously described FtsZ-containing cytoskeletal-like networks in chloroplasts may be artifacts of FtsZ overexpression.
!~RES~! Immunofluorescence microscopy was used to investigate the localization of FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 proteins in leaf sections from Arabidopsis both in wild-type plants and in the plastid division mutant arc5. The division site is easily visualized in arc5 because the chloroplasts are arrested in division and remain permanently constricted (CITATION). Affinity-purified, antipeptide antibodies generated against AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1, both with high specificity for their target proteins on immunoblots (CITATION), were employed for these studies. In both wild-type and arc5, anti–AtFtsZ1-1 and anti–AtFtsZ2-1 antibodies each detected immunoreactive proteins that localized to the chloroplast midpoint (CITATION A). Three-dimensional reconstruction of images obtained from several focal planes revealed that both proteins were organized into clearly distinguishable, smoothly curved ring structures (CITATION B). These rings appeared to be associated with the chloroplast periphery, though their precise positions relative to the chloroplast envelope membranes and to each other could not be determined. Localization of AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1 to the plastid midpoint was evident in most mesophyll cell chloroplasts (CITATION C) and in both constricted and nonconstricted chloroplasts, suggesting that the ring or rings remain assembled whether or not the chloroplasts are in the process of division. In deeply constricted chloroplasts, AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1 were also frequently detected in one or more thin filaments emanating from the central ring (CITATION D). Rotation of the three-dimensional image projections of optical sections through these structures revealed that the filaments spiraled along the chloroplast periphery (videos available at http://www.jcb.org/cgi/content/full/153/1/111/DC1) and suggested they could represent an intermediate stage in repositioning of the AtFtsZ1-1– and AtFtsZ2-1–containing rings to the center of the newly formed daughter plastids. Control sections in which the anti-AtFtsZ antibodies were either omitted or substituted with preimmune serum did not show significant staining (not shown). To further confirm the in situ specificity of the anti–AtFtsZ1-1 and anti–AtFtsZ2-1 antibodies for their target proteins and to begin investigating the interdependence of AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1 localization, immunofluorescence labeling was performed on transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing AtFtsZ1-1 or AtFtsZ2-1 antisense transgenes that had been shown by immunoblotting to be depleted in the corresponding protein (CITATION). These plants are severely impaired in plastid division and contain single, large chloroplasts in their mesophyll cells (CITATION). The patterns of FtsZ localization in the two sets of antisense plants were distinct from one another and from those in wild-type. In the AtFtsZ1-1 antisense plants, immunofluorescence labeling of AtFtsZ1-1 was not detected (CITATION, top left), but AtFtsZ2-1 could be detected in multiple filaments that did not show a specific pattern of localization (CITATION, bottom left). These filaments bent around the chloroplast periphery and in many cases were connected into rings and spirals encircling the enlarged chloroplasts, though these were often jagged rather than smoothly curved. In the AtFtsZ2-1 antisense lines, AtFtsZ2-1 protein could not be detected by immunofluorescence staining (CITATION, bottom right), but AtFtsZ1-1 was detected largely in numerous short filaments and bright foci (CITATION, top right). Because these structures were too short to trace in three-dimensional reconstructions, it could not be determined reliably whether they were associated with the chloroplast periphery, the interior, or both. Some longer AtFtsZ1-1 filaments were also observed in these plants and generally appeared as single, discrete filaments, unlike the disorganized AtFtsZ2-1 filament networks seen in the AtFtsZ1-1 antisense plants. The data shown in CITATION demonstrate that the antibody specificity observed on immunoblots (CITATION) is preserved during immunofluorescence staining and indicate that the rings and filaments detected by the anti–AtFtsZ1-1 and anti–AtFtsZ2-1 antibodies represent distinct proteins. We conclude that FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 both assemble into rings at the site of chloroplast constriction in Arabidopsis. In addition, the fact that AtFtsZ1-1–containing filaments were observed in the AtFtsZ2-1 antisense plants and vice versa further suggests that FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 proteins are not dependent on one another for their assembly into cytoskeletal-like structures. The presence of FtsZ-containing rings in arc5 (CITATION A) indicates that the ARC5 gene product acts after assembly of AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1 into ring structures and suggests that FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 proteins are both involved in the initiation of plastid constriction. To determine whether the AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1 rings were colocalized, we performed sequential double-immunofluorescence labeling of leaf chloroplasts. This was necessary because both antibodies were raised in rabbits and therefore simultaneous double labeling was not feasible. When the digital images of the AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1 localization patterns were superimposed, the fluorescence signals were precisely overlaid (CITATION, bottom two rows). A series of control treatments in which one or both antibodies were omitted demonstrated that immunodetection of each protein was specific in tissue sections and cross-talk between the AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1 signals was minimal (CITATION, top three rows). The relative intensities of the two fluorescence signals were independent of the order of labeling, indicating that elution of antibodies during the labeling procedure was not significant (CITATION, compare last two rows). We conclude from these data that the AtFtsZ1-1– and AtFtsZ2-1–containing rings are coaligned. As a prelude to studying chloroplast FtsZ localization dynamics in living tissue, we constructed a gene encoding AtFtsZ1-1 fused to GFP. A COOH-terminal GFP fusion was used since AtFtsZ1-1 contains an NH2-terminal transit peptide that is processed upon import to the chloroplast (CITATION). Because overexpression of AtFtsZ1-1 driven by the strong cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter inhibits chloroplast division (CITATION), the AtFtsZ1-1–GFP transgene was expressed under control of a 1.6-kb stretch of the native AtFtsZ1-1 promoter in an effort to prevent overaccumulation of the fusion protein. Transgenic plants were produced in both wild-type and arc5 backgrounds and fusion protein localization was investigated by in vivo fluorescence microscopy. Although AtFtsZ1-1 RNA levels are generally quite low in wild-type plants (CITATION; Stokes, K.D., and K.W. Osteryoung, unpublished observations), immunoblotting demonstrated that independent transgenic lines exhibited a wide range of AtFtsZ1-1–GFP levels, some of them very high, despite use of the AtFtsZ1-1 promoter. This suggests that additional regulatory elements outside the promoter fragment used in transgene construction may participate in regulating expression of endogenous AtFtsZ1-1. Most of the transgenic plants produced in the wild-type background also exhibited defects in chloroplast division, as indicated by the presence of reduced numbers of enlarged chloroplasts. In plants with relatively low levels of AtFtsZ1-1–GFP (CITATION A, lane 3), the fusion protein could be clearly observed as a single ring localized in the constricted neck of the chloroplasts (CITATION B, left) and in nonconstricted chloroplasts (CITATION C, left). These plants exhibited reduced numbers (10–20 per cell) of larger-than-normal chloroplasts when compared with wild-type, but constricted chloroplasts were seen frequently. AtFtsZ1-1–GFP rings were also localized to a single ring in constricted chloroplasts in the arc5 background (CITATION B, right). In plants with high levels of AtFtsZ1-1–GFP (CITATION A, lane 5), the fusion protein was detected in mesophyll cell chloroplasts in the form of many filaments that appeared to be randomly organized (CITATION C, center). These plants exhibited more severe defects in chloroplast division, with ∼70% of the mesophyll cells containing only a single giant chloroplast. In general, the severity of the chloroplast division defect appeared to be correlated with the level of AtFtsZ1-1–GFP accumulation and with the presence of AtFtsZ1-1–GFP filament networks. A similar correlation between AtFtsZ1-1 accumulation and plastid division inhibition has been demonstrated previously in plants overexpressing an AtFtsZ1-1 transgene under control of the CaMV 35S promoter (CITATION). Among these overexpression lines, immunofluorescence staining of sections from individuals with severe plastid division defects and high AtFtsZ1-1 levels (CITATION A, lane 7) revealed that AtFtsZ1-1 is also detected in disorganized filament networks in these plants (CITATION C, right). AtFtsZ1-1–GFP was often localized similarly in the arc5 background (not shown), but the inhibition of chloroplast division was only evident at highest expression levels, probably because arc5 has a reduced number of enlarged chloroplasts to begin with (CITATION). Among the plants with high levels of AtFtsZ1-1–GFP, chloroplasts in epidermal cells were not as grossly enlarged as in mesophyll cells, though many contained networks of AtFtsZ1-1–GFP filaments (CITATION D). In the pavement cells of the epidermis, AtFtsZ1-1-GFP–containing strands extended from these chloroplasts, spanning long distances across the cell (CITATION D, top left). These strands were often visible in bright-field images as well (CITATION D, bottom left). In the guard cells of stomata, individual chloroplasts often seemed to be interconnected by the AtFtsZ1-1–GFP strands (CITATION D, top right). These observation indicate that AtFtsZ1-1–GFP accumulates in thin connections between the chloroplast, which probably represent “stromules” described previously by CITATION. AtFtsZ1-1 could be detected in similar structures by immunofluorescence microscopy in AtFtsZ1-1 overexpression lines, but not in wild-type plants (not shown). Overall, the behavior of the AtFtsZ1-1–GFP fusion protein paralleled that of the native protein, both with respect to its localization patterns and with regard to its dosage-dependent impact on plastid division. We conclude that the AtFtsZ1-1–GFP fusion protein accurately reflects the activity of AtFtsZ1-1 in vivo. To determine whether FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 proteins assemble into rings in plants other than Arabidopsis, the anti–AtFtsZ1-1 and anti–AtFtsZ2-1 antibodies were used to detect cross-reactive proteins in pea and tobacco. On immunoblots of leaf extracts, each antibody recognized polypeptides that migrated close to those in Arabidopsis (CITATION A). Immunofluorescence staining revealed cross-reactive proteins localized to rings at the constriction of dividing chloroplasts in both pea and tobacco (CITATION B). These results suggest that FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 proteins assemble into ring structures and most likely have similar functions in plastid division in all flowering plants.
!~MM~! Wild-type A. thaliana, ecotype Columbia (Col-0), transgenic plants expressing AtFtsZ1-1 or AtFtsZ2-1 antisense transgenes (CITATION), the Arabidopsis chloroplast division mutant arc5 (Landsberg erecta background) (CITATION), and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) cv. ‘Petit Havana’ were grown for 4 wk in a growth chamber as described previously (CITATION). Pea (Pisum sativum) cv. ‘Little Marvel’ seeds were germinated in vermiculite and grown for 10 d under the same conditions. A fragment from the AtFtsZ1-1 genomic sequence was amplified by PCR from Arabidopsis bacterial artificial chromosome clone MCO15 (EMBL/GenBank/DDBJ accession number AB010071), using primers 5′-GAAG GATCCCAGACACTTTCTC (forward) and 5′-AACTGGATCCAAAGTCTACGGGG (reverse) designed to create a BamHI restriction site (underlined). The ∼3.5-kb amplification product, after digestion with BamHI, contained ∼1.67 kb of the 5′ region and the entire coding sequence of AtFtsZ1-1, excluding the ultimate phenylalanine and stop codons. This fragment was inserted into the BamHI site in front of a soluble-modified GFP (EMBL/GenBank/DDBJ accession number U70495) (CITATION) cassette, psmGFP (stock number CD3-326; Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center) containing GFP and a nos terminator, in the pBJ97 shuttle vector (empty vector obtained from Bart Janssen, The Horticulture and Food Research Institute, Auckland, New Zealand via John Bowman, University of California at Davis, Davis, CA). Sequencing confirmed that no PCR amplification errors were introduced into the coding sequence of AtFtsZ1-1 and that the AtFtsZ1-1 insert was in frame with the GFP coding sequence. In the resulting fusion protein, the penultimate phenylalanine of AtFtsZ1-1 was changed to tryptophan (underlined) and a linker region before the starting methionine of GFP encoded the sequence WIGGSIQGDIT. The AtFtsZ1-1–GFP construct was then excised with NotI and inserted into the plant transformation vector pMLBART (obtained from Karl Gordon, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Canberra, Australia via John Bowman, University of California at Davis, Davis, CA), a derivative of pART27 (CITATION), that confers resistance to the herbicide glufosinate as a selectable marker. Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of Arabidopsis wild-type and arc5 mutant plants and growth of the T1 generation of transgenics were performed as described (CITATION). T1 seedlings were sprayed three times at 7, 11, and 15 d with Finale (Agrevo) herbicide containing 120 mg/liter glufosinate ammonium as the active compound and 250 μl/liter Silwett L-77 (OSi Specialties, Inc.) added as a detergent. Leaves from the surviving plants were screened under a microscope for chloroplast phenotypes and GFP fluorescence. Plants were grown to maturity and T2 seeds were collected. For analysis of the T2 generation, plants were sown on Rockwool (GrodanHP; Agro Dynamics) saturated with a Hoagland's nutrient solution and grown for 4 wk under the same conditions as the T1 plants. The first three leaves were harvested for immunoblot analysis and the fourth leaf was used for microscopy. Chloroplast numbers in mesophyll cells from these leaves were determined as described previously (CITATION). Antipeptide antibodies against AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1 were raised in rabbits and affinity-purified as described (CITATION). The final protein concentration was 0.3 and 0.9 mg/ml for the anti–AtFtsZ1-1 and anti–AtFtsZ2-1 antibodies, respectively. Tissue from the base of expanding, young 15-mm-long leaves was fixed in FAA (3% formaldehyde, 5% acetic acid, 50% ethanol) at room temperature overnight and embedded in low-melting polyester wax (Steedman's wax; CITATION) at 37°C as described (CITATION). 7-μm-thick paradermal sections were attached to poly-l-lysine–coated glass slides, dewaxed, and rehydrated (CITATION). The sections were then subjected to an antigen retrieval procedure (CITATION) by submerging the slides in 0.1 M Tris-HCl, pH 10.5, and autoclaving them in plastic Coplin jars for 10 min. Jars were then allowed to cool at room temperature for 30 min. Slides were transferred to blocking buffer (2% nonfat dry milk and 0.05% Tween 20 in PBS) for 30 min, then incubated for 3 h at room temperature with affinity-purified anti–AtFtsZ1-1 or anti–AtFtsZ2-1 antibodies at dilutions of 1:300 and 1:200, respectively, in incubation buffer (2% normal goat serum in blocking buffer). Slides were subsequently washed in blocking buffer (three times for 10 min), then incubated for 2 h with an FITC-conjugated anti–rabbit secondary antibody (Sigma-Aldrich) used at a dilution of 1:150. Control slides were treated similarly, except that preimmune serum was used instead as the primary antibody. Because both of the anti-AtFtsZ antibodies were raised in rabbit, a sequential labeling protocol was employed for double labeling (CITATION). Antigen retrieval, antibody dilutions, and washing were the same as in the single immunofluorescence protocol above. Sections were incubated for 2 h with the first anti-AtFtsZ antibody and then with a monovalent anti–rabbit Rhodamine red–X conjugate (Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories) for 1.5 h at a dilution of 1:50. Any epitopes remaining exposed on the first anti-AtFtsZ antibody were blocked with unlabeled monovalent anti–rabbit antibody at a dilution of 1:50. Afterwards, slides were incubated for 2 h with the second anti-AtFtsZ antibody, followed by 2 h with a goat anti–rabbit FITC conjugate (Sigma-Aldrich) at a dilution of 1:50. Control sections were treated in a similar manner, except that either the second or both anti-AtFtsZ antibodies were omitted from the incubation mixture. Additionally, the sequence of application of the anti-AtFtsZ antibodies was reversed on some slides in order to compare the relative intensities of the fluorescence signals and determine whether elution of antibodies had occurred. All samples were viewed using a microscope (BH2; Olympus) with a 100× 1.25 NA objective (Olympus). Bright-field images were obtained using differential interference contrast (Nomarski) optics. For epifluorescence, an FITC (excitation 455–495 nm, emission 512–575 nm) or Texas red (excitation 535–585 nm, emission 607–682 nm) filter set was used and images were recorded either on TMAX 400 film (Eastman Kodak Co.), or videocaptured with a color video camera (DEI 750; Optronics) and Scion Image v1.62 software (Scion Corporation). The z-series of optical sections were videocaptured using Scion Image software, with 0.5-μm steps between sections. All images were assembled for publication using Adobe Photoshop® 5.0 (Adobe Systems Inc.) and Canvas 6.0 (Deneba Software) software. For in vivo GFP fluorescence microscopy, fresh leaf tissue was mounted in water and viewed with an FITC filter set and images were recorded on TMAX 400 film (Eastman Kodak Co.). Preparation of leaf extracts, PAGE, and immunoblotting were performed as described (CITATION). Extract from 1 mg fresh leaf tissue was loaded in each lane. Fluorescence images in stacks of optical sections, captured as described above, were batch-processed using Adobe Photoshop® 5.0 (Filter-Despeckle, Filter-Unsharp Mask, Adjust Levels). Image stacks were then projected using Scion Image (Brightest Point Method, rotation angle increment 4°) and saved as a rotating projection into a video file. Videos containing animated versions of the data shown in CITATION D can be viewed at http://www.jcb.org/cgi/content/full/153/1/111/DC1.
