!~ABS~! Low temperature is one of the most important environmental stimuli that control gene transcription programs and development in plants. InArabidopsis thaliana, the HOS1 locus is a key negative regulator of low temperature-responsive gene transcription. The recessive hos1 mutation causes enhanced induction of theCBF transcription factors by low temperature as well as of their downstream cold-responsive genes. The hos1 mutant plants flower early, and this correlates with a low level of Flowering Locus C gene expression. The HOS1 gene was isolated through positional cloning. HOS1 encodes a novel protein with a RING finger motif near the amino terminus. HOS1 is ubiquitously expressed in all plant tissues. HOS1–GFP translational fusion studies reveal that HOS1 protein resides in the cytoplasm at normal growth temperatures. However, in response to low temperature treatments, HOS1 accumulates in the nucleus. Ectopic expression of HOS1 in wild-type plants causes cosuppression of HOS1 expression and mimics the hos1 mutant phenotypes. 
!~RES~! Transcripts for the CBF/DREB1 transcription factors are rapidly induced by low temperature treatment (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). These transcription factors in turn activate the expression of downstream COR/RD/KIN genes such asCOR15A, COR47, RD29A, and KIN1. We have shown previously that these COR/RD/KIN genes are superinduced by cold in hos1 mutant plants (CITATION). Northern analysis was carried out to determine whetherCBF genes are also superinduced by cold in the hos1mutant. Both CBF2 and CBF3 were found to exhibit enhanced cold induction in hos1 mutant plants (Fig.1). At 3 h after cold treatment,CBF2 expression in hos1 mutants is approximately 50% higher than in wild-type plants. Increased CBF2 andCBF3 expression is more pronounced after longer cold treatment, for example, at 6, 12, 24, and 48 h (Fig. 1). We did not observe significant cold induction of CBF1 in either the wild-type or hos1 mutant plants (not shown).  [[FIGURE]] The Flowering Locus C (FLC) gene that encodes a MADS-box protein is a central regulator of flowering induction by vernalization (CITATION; CITATION). The level of FLC determines the extent of the vernalization response in the promotion of flowering: The duration of cold treatment correlates with the extent of down-regulation of FLCexpression (CITATION). Because the hos1 mutant plants flower early (CITATION) and appear to be constitutively vernalized (Fig. 2A), we carried out Northern analysis to determine whether FLCexpression is altered in the mutant. Consistent with previous studies (CITATION), the FLC transcript level is high in wild-type C24 plants, but it decreases significantly as the plants become vernalized by cold treatments (Fig. 2B). Interestingly,hos1 mutant plants have a substantially lower level ofFLC expression even in the absence of vernalization treatment (Fig. 2B). This lower level of FLC expression correlates with the early flowering phenotype of the hos1 mutant plants (Fig.2A). After 2 wk of vernalization treatment, the FLC level inhos1 mutant plants is not reduced. After 4 wk of vernalization, the FLC level decreases slightly (Fig. 2B), as does the flowering time (Fig. 2A). As a control, the tubulingene transcript levels are not different between hos1 and the wild type, and are not changed by vernalization (Fig. 2B). These results suggest that wild-type HOS1 is a negative regulator of vernalization and that it is required for a high level of FLCexpression.  [[FIGURE]] To map hos1 genetically, homozygous hos1 mutant plants in the C24 ecotype were crossed with wild-type plants of the Columbia ecotype. The resulting F1 plants were selfed, and homozygous hos1 mutant plants were selected from the segregating F2 population by luciferase imaging after 2 d of treatment at 0°C. Surveying of representative molecular markers from each of the five Arabidopsis chromosomes located hos1to chromosome II. Further analysis showed that hos1 is closely linked with the SSLP (simple sequencelength polymorphism) marker nga168. Several new SSLP markers were developed based on the genomic sequences of BAC clones in the nga168 region. Fine mapping using these new markers delimited HOS1 to the BAC clone T5I7 (Fig.3). Candidate open reading frames on T5I7 were sequenced from wild-type as well as hos1 mutant plants. The sequence analysis revealed a single nucleotide substitution in the hypothetical T5I7.11 gene in the hos1 mutant. This mutation is predicted to create a premature stop codon, resulting in a truncated protein.  [[FIGURE]] To confirm that we have cloned the correct gene, the T5I7.11sequence including 2807 bp upstream of the predicted ATG start codon was amplified from wild-type plants and cloned into the binary vector pCIT20. The construct was introduced into hos1 mutant plants via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transformants were selected based on hygromycin resistance; the progenies of two transformants were tested by luciferase imaging after 2 d of cold treatment. Both hygromycin resistance and cold-inducedRD29A–LUC expression segregated in the T2generation. All hygromycin-resistant plants exhibited the wild-type phenotype in terms of cold-induced RD29A–LUC expression and time to flower. Figure 4A–C shows an example of complemented hos1 mutant plants in the T3generation. In response to cold treatment, hos1 mutant plants exhibited brighter luminescence, indicating a higher level ofRD29A–LUC expression compared with the wild type (Fig. 4B). In contrast, luminescence intensities from hos1 mutant seedlings containing the introduced wild-type HOS1 gene were similar to those in wild-type plants (Fig. 4B). Quantification of the luminescence intensities confirmed that the mutant was fully complemented by the wild-type HOS1 gene (Fig. 4C). The wild-type HOS1 transgene also rescued all the other phenotypes exhibited by hos1 mutant plants, such as pale, small leaves and early flowering (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] The transcribed sequence of the HOS1 gene was determined by sequencing cDNAs obtained by the reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT–PCR). Comparison of the cDNA with the genomic sequence showed that the HOS1 gene contains nine exons and eight introns (Fig. 3B). HOS1 is predicted to encode a polypeptide of 915 amino acids, with an estimated molecular mass of 104 kD (Fig.5). Database searches revealed that HOS1 contains a short stretch of amino acids near the amino terminus that are similar to the RING finger domain found in a group of proteins known as IAPs (inhibitor of apoptosis) (Fig.6; CITATION). The rest of HOS1 does not show significant homology to any other sequences in the GenBank database. The hos1 mutation, a G → A substitution, is predicted to create a premature stop codon that truncates the protein after His 643. This suggests that the carboxy-terminal one-third of HOS1 is functionally essential.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The RING finger is a small zinc-binding domain found in many proteins with diverse functions. Recent studies have shown that proteins containing a RING finger may act as E3 ubiquitin protein ligases, and that the RING finger can interact with E2 ubiquitin conjugating enzymes, thereby promoting ubiquitination of specific target proteins (for review, see CITATION). The RING finger motif is defined as a series of conserved cysteine and histidine residues: Cys-X2-Cys-X9–39-Cys-X1–3-His-X2–3-Cys/His-X2-Cys-X4–48-Cys-X2-Cys, where X can be any amino acid (CITATION). The RING finger of HOS1 is most similar to that of IAPs, which can be classified as a C3HC4-type RING (CITATION). Interestingly, the first Cys in the RING finger of HOS1 is replaced with Leu (Fig. 6). RING variants have also been seen in other well-known RING finger proteins (CITATION). For example, in mouse MDM2, Cys3 is replaced by a Thr residue, whereas in CART1, Cys7 is substituted for an Asp residue (CITATION).  Northern analysis was carried out to examine HOS1transcript abundance in Arabidopsis seedlings subjected to various treatments. In wild-type plants, HOS1 mRNA was detected in unstressed control as well as cold-, ABA-, NaCl-, or PEG-treated samples (Fig. 7). HOS1transcript abundance was not substantially influenced by ABA, NaCl, or PEG treatment. In response to cold treatment, HOS1 expression declined quickly and transiently. At 30 min after cold treatment,HOS1 expression was almost undetectable (Fig. 7). However, by 1 h after cold treatment, HOS1 expression recovered to pretreatment levels. This rapid and transient reduction ofHOS1 message in response to brief cold treatment was consistently observed in independent experiments. After recovery from the decline, HOS1 expression was then maintained at this level until 2 d after cold treatment, before declining again (Fig. 7).  [[FIGURE]] Very low levels of HOS1 transcript were detected inhos1 mutant plants subjected to the same treatments as were applied to wild-type plants (Fig. 7). The low level of HOS1expression is probably attributable to active degradation of the mutant mRNA, since it is known that mRNA surveillance mechanisms degrade transcripts with premature stop codons (CITATION). To verify that the stress treatments were appropriate, the RNA blot was also probed with RD29A and CBF2. The results show that the two genes were up-regulated with the appropriate kinetics, that is, CBF2 induction occurred earlier than RD29A(Fig. 7), although not as early as the CBF2 induction seen in some other experiments (Fig. 1). The results also confirm thatCBF2 as well as RD29A are expressed at higher levels in hos1 mutant plants under cold treatment. Hybridization with a β-tubulin cDNA probe showed RNA loading in stressed and in control unstressed sample lanes (Fig. 7).  To examine HOS1 expression in various plant tissues, 2.78 kb of the genomic sequence upstream of the HOS1 open reading frame (−2807 to −23 from ATG) was fused with theβ-glucuronidase reporter gene (GUS), and the resulting construct was introduced into wild-type Arabidopsisplants. GUS expression was observed in all plant tissues examined (Fig. 8). In leaves, the expression was stronger in the vasculature (Fig. 8C), but could be seen in mesophyll tissues as well (Fig. 8D). Strong expression was observed in roots (Fig. 8A), with root tips having especially high levels (Fig. 8B).  [[FIGURE]] Knowledge of the subcellular localization of a protein is crucial to the understanding of its cellular function. To determine the subcellular localization of HOS1 gene product, HOS1cDNA was fused in-frame at its C terminus with the GFP (green fluorescence protein) marker. HOS1–GFP fusion protein was expressed under the CaMV 35S promoter in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. The subcellular localization of HOS1–GFP was determined by green fluorescence imaging under a confocal microscope. Without cold treatment, only very faint green fluorescence signals slightly above background (i.e., nontransformed plants) could be detected in the majority of cells (Fig.9A). This suggests that HOS1–GFP was either expressed at a very low level or was being rapidly degraded at normal growth temperatures. Occasionally, a few cells were found to express a high level of HOS1–GFP. In these cells, the green fluorescence was entirely cytoplasmically localized (Fig. 9A, indicated by arrow). Amazingly, when the HOS1–GFP transgenic plants were placed at 0°C for 1–2 d, green fluorescence could be seen in structures consistent with the nuclei (Fig. 9B). To verify that the structures emitting green fluorescence were nuclei, the seedling roots were stained with propidium iodide. The results show that the green fluorescence-emitting organelles were stained with propidium iodide, suggesting that the organelles are, indeed, nuclei (Fig. 9B, inserts). The occasional cells expressing high levels of cytoplasmic HOS1–GFP at normal temperatures also showed strong nuclear HOS1–GFP expression after cold treatment (Fig. 9C,D).  [[FIGURE]] The nuclear accumulation of HOS1–GFP fusion protein was clearly visible after plants were subjected to 0°C treatment for 20 h. Longer cold treatment did not change the intensity of the nuclear green fluorescence. After the cold-treated plants were returned to normal growth temperatures (18°–23°C) for more than 12 h, the nuclear green fluorescence disappeared, suggesting that the fusion protein moved back to the cytoplasm and/or was rapidly degraded.  To determine whether the cold-induced nuclear accumulation is specific to HOS1–GFP, we treated transgenic Arabidopsis plants containing a known cytoplasmically localized small acidic ribosomal protein–GFP fusion (line Q1; CITATION) at 0°C for 48 h. Only cytoplasmically localized green fluorescence was detected in these control plants either at 23°C or 0°C (Fig. 9E,F). These results show that cold treatment does not induce a general nonspecific nuclear accumulation of GFP fusion proteins.  The HOS1 open reading frame was overexpressed in wild-type plants under the CaMV 35S promoter to determine whether increasedHOS1 expression would down-regulate RD29A–LUCregulation and affect plant tolerance to chilling or freezing stress. Among 25 independent transgenic plant lines tested in the T2and T3 generations, none showed reduced RD29A–LUC induction by cold treatments compared to wild type (data not shown). We also did not find any transgenic lines with altered chilling or freezing tolerance. Interestingly, there were two transgenic lines that showed higher than wild-type levels of RD29A–LUC expression in response to cold treatment. This phenotype segregated in the T2 generation, with an ∼3:1 ratio of the high expression to regular expression plants. The RD29A–LUC phenotype of one of the lines, #4, is shown in Figure10A–C. The high expression plants were all found to carry the 35S–HOS1 transgene according to their hygromycin resistance.  [[FIGURE]] The increased RD29A–LUC expression in these35S–HOS1 transgenic lines mimics the phenotype of thehos1 mutant plants, although the luciferase expression level was not as high as in the mutant (Fig. 10C). The strong luminescence phenotype of these transgenic lines is probably a result of posttranscriptional cosuppression of HOS1 expression, because semiquantitative RT–PCR tests revealed a decreased amount ofHOS1 transcript in the high expression plants derived from the #4 line (Fig. 10D). 
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana plants of the C24 ecotype expressing the RD29A promoter–Luciferase (RD29A–LUC) transgene (referred as wild type herein) were obtained byAgrobacterium transformation (CITATION). The methodology of mutant screening and characterization were described previously (CITATION, CITATION). For bioluminescence image analysis, wild-type and hos1 mutant seeds were surface-sterilized and sown onto Petri plates containing Murashige and Skoog salts (MS salts) supplemented with 3% sucrose and solidified with 0.6% agar. Seedlings were grown at 23°C with cycles of 16 h light and 8 h darkness before stress treatments. For cold treatment, 1-wk-old seedlings in agar plate were incubated at 0°C (±0.1°C) for 48 h in the dark. For ABA treatment, 100 μM ABA (mixed isomers) in water was sprayed on leaves, and the plants were incubated at room temperature (∼23°C) under light. For NaCl or PEG treatment, seedlings were placed on 3M filter paper saturated with MS salt solution supplemented with 300 mM NaCl or 30% PEG6000 and incubated under light at room temperature. After indicated times of incubation, bioluminescence images were taken as described (CITATION).  For measuring flowering time in hos1 and the wild-type, plants were grown in pots in a growth chamber under the conditions as described above. At the emergence of the first flower, the total number of rosette leaves was counted (n = 15).  To generate the mapping population for HOS1, hos1mutant plants were crossed to wild-type Arabidopsis plants of the Columbia ecotype. A total of 586 hos1 mutant plants were selected from the segregating F2 population based on high luminescence expression of RD29A–LUC after cold treatment. Genomic DNA from these plants was extracted and analyzed for cosegregation with respect to SSLP (simple sequence length polymorphism) markers. These markers were developed by searching for simple repeat sequences with the RepeatMasker program (http://ftp.genome.washington.edu/cgi-bin/RepeatMasker). Primer pairs covering the repeat regions were designed and used for PCR amplification of the genomic fragments from both C24 and Col ecotypes. Those that exhibited PCR fragment length polymorphisms were used as markers for mapping. Primer pairs for fine mapping ofHOS1 are as follows: F12L6-F, 5′-CACGCT TATTCTTAGCCTAG-3′; F12L6-R, 5′-TTGAAAGATCACGC CGGCGA-3′; F17A14-F, 5′-GGAGAATGAAAGACCGAATC-3′; F17A14-R, 5′-TGTAGAGACATGAGAATCT-3′; T28M21-F, 5′-TAGGGGGATATTCAAGTTTG-3′; T28M21-R, 5′-AAT TTCCCCACTCCACTCCT-3′; T2P4-F, 5′-GTATTCGATCTT CTTTAGGT-3′; T2P4-R, 5′-AGGAGTATACGTCCAATTGA-3′; T20B5-F, 5′-GAAGAGCAACGCATTACAGT-3′; T20B5-R, 5′-CTTCATAAATAACGAGGCCT-3′. In addition, nucleotide differences between C24 and Col ecotypes were also identified by direct sequencing of the open reading frames ofT5I7.2, T5I7.4, and T5I7.14, and were used for fine mapping.  Seedlings grown for 15 d on MS agar plates under continuous light were treated with low temperature, ABA, NaCl, or PEG as described above. Total RNA from control or stressed plants was extracted and analyzed as described by CITATION. The RD29Agene-specific probe was from the 3′ noncoding region (CITATION). The CBF2 and CBF3 gene-specific probes were generated by PCR with the following primer pairs: CBF2-F, 5′-TTCGATTTTTATTTCCATTTTTGG-3′; CBF2-R, 5′-CCA AACGTCCTTGAGTCTTGAT-3′; CBF3-F, 5′-TAAAACTCA GATTATTATTTCCATTT-3′; CBF3-R, 5′-GAGGAGCCACG TAGAGGGCC-3′. The FLC gene-specific probe was obtained by PCR with the following primer pair: FLC-F, 5′-CCGCTC GAGCTTAGTATCTCCGGCG-3′; FLC-R, 5′-GGACTAGTC GCCCTTATCAGCGGA-3′. The β-tubulin gene was amplified by PCR with the following primer pair: Tubulin-5′, 5′CGTG GATCACAGCAATACAGAGCC-3′; Tubulin-3′, 5′-CCTCCT GCACTTCCACTTCGTCTTC-3′. It was used for the loading control.  For complementation of hos1 mutant plants, T5I7 BAC (bacterial artificial chromosome) DNA was digested with XhoI, and the fragment corresponding toHOS1 was cloned into the binary vector pCIT20 (CITATION). This and all other constructs described in this paper were completely sequenced to ensure that they did not contain PCR errors. The construct was transformed into Agrobacterium strain GV3101 by electroporation. hos1 mutant plants were vacuum-infiltrated with the Agrobacteria containing the HOS1complementation construct. Hygromycin-resistant transgenic plants were selected, and their T2 and T3 progenies were subjected to luminescence imaging analysis for RD29A–LUCexpression in response to cold, ABA, and NaCl treatments as described above.  The promoter region (2.78 kb upstream from the initiation codon) of the HOS1 gene was PCR-amplified with the following primer pair: HOS1–GUS-F1, 5′-CGCAAGCTTCTCGAGGTAA GACCGTAGATTCA-3′; HOS1–GUS-R1, 5′-CGGTCTAGAC CTAAGACCTGAGCTAAACTAAT-3′. The resulting fragment was digested with HindIII andXbaI and inserted into the pIG121 binary vector. ThisHOS1 promoter–GUS construct was introduced intoAgrobacterium strain GV3101 and transformed into wild-typeArabidopsis, and 20 independent lines of hygromycin-resistant transgenic plants were obtained. For GUS staining, T2seedlings grown on MS agar plate were incubated with X-Gluc for 12 h at 37°C and then washed 5 times with 70% (v/v) ethanol at 70°C to remove chlorophyll.  The coding region of the HOS1 gene was obtained by RT-PCR using the following primers: HOS1BAMHF, 5′-CGCGGATC CATGGGTTTTGCAGAGCTTAGAGTTAA-3′; HOS1BAMHR, 5′-CGCGGATCCGCGTTCTTGCTGCGAATCTACGTCTCC3′. The resulting PCR fragment was digested with BamH1 and inserted into the binary vector pBIN35S-mGFP4 downstream from the CaMV 35S promoter. Agrobacterium strain GV3101 containing thisHOS1–GFP translational fusion was introduced intoArabidopsis (Col ecotype), 40 lines of kanamycin-resistant transgenic plants were selected, and their T2 were analyzed for GFP expression. To visualize the nucleus, root tissues were stained with propidium iodide (1 μg/mL). Green fluorescence (GFP expression) and red fluorescence (propidium iodide staining) analysis of transgenic plants were performed with a 1024 confocal laser-scanning microscope (CITATION).   HOS1 cDNA was isolated by RT-PCR using primers HOS1RTF1, 5‘-GATCCCGGGGCTCAGGTCTTAGGATTTCTAG-3‘; HOS1RTR1, 5′-GCTCCCGGGTACCTCTCTCTCTCTTTCT CTATGC-3′. The PCR fragment was cloned into the pCR-BluntII-TOPO vector (Invitrogen) and sequenced. The coding sequence of the HOS1 gene was PCR-amplified from the cDNA with primers HOS1OVER-F1, 5′-CGAGCTCGGCTCAGGTCT TAGGATTTCTAG-3′; HOS1OVER-R1, 5′-CCCCCGGGGGT ACCTCTCTCTCTCTTTCTCTATGC-3′. The PCR fragment was digested with SstI and SmaI and inserted into a pRTL104 vector downstream from the CaMV 35S promoter. TheHOS1 promoter–GUS fusion was removed from the construct by digestion with SphI and cloned into pCAMBIA 1200. After transformation of wild-type Arabidopsis plants viaAgrobacterium strain GV3101, 25 lines of hygromycin-resistant transgenic plants were obtained. Luciferase imaging was carried out on the T2 plants. For analysis of the transcription level ofHOS1 in cosuppression lines, the following primer pair was used in quantitative RT–PCR: 5′-ACGGAATGGATGGAGATACT-3′; 5′-AAGAGACTACCCACAGCTGA-3′ (resulting in a 170-bp PCR fragment). Total RNA from wild-type, hos1, and #4-high plants was extracted using the TRIzol (Gibco BRL) reagent system, and 1 μg of RNA from each sample was used for RT–PCR reaction with the EZ rTth RNA PCR Kit (PERKIN ELMER, part no. N808-0179) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. PCR products were then separated in a 4% agarose gel. As an internal control, the ubiquitin gene was amplified along with HOS1 using the following primer pair: UBQ11-F, 5′-GAGGTATGCA GATCTTCGTG-3′; UBQ11-R, 5′-GTAGACTCCTTCTGGAT GTTG-3′. 
