!~ABS~! Plants contain a novel unique subfamily of Rho GTPases, vital components of cellular signalling networks. Here we report a general role for some members of this family in polarized plant growth processes. We show that Arabidopsis AtRop4 and AtRop6 encode functional GTPases with similar intrinsic GTP hydrolysis rates. We localized AtRop proteins in root meristem cells to the cross‐wall and cell plate membranes. Polar localization of AtRops in trichoblasts specifies the growth sites for emerging root hairs. These sites were visible before budding and elongation of the Arabidopsis root hair when AtRops accumulated at their tips. Expression of constitutively active AtRop4 and AtRop6 mutant proteins in root hairs of transgenic Arabidopsis plants abolished polarized growth and delocalized the tip‐focused Ca2+ gradient. Polar localization of AtRops was inhibited by brefeldin A, but not by other drugs such as latrunculin B, cytochalasin D or caffeine. Our results demonstrate a general function of AtRop GTPases in tip growth and in polar diffuse growth.
!~RES~! AtRop4 and AtRop6 GTPases belong to the plant‐specific Rop group of Rho GTPases (Yang and Watson, 1993). AtRop4 and AtRop6 are 89% identical and, from the presence of C‐terminal CAAX isoprenylation motifs, are substrates for geranylation (Moores et al., 1991) (FIG-REF). To determine the intrinsic GTP hydrolysis rates, Arabidopsis cDNAs corresponding to GTPases AtRop4, AtRop6, AtRab11c and a Rac‐like GTPase (Collins and Johnson, 1997), were cloned in a pGEX vector (Smith and Johnson, 1988), to obtain the corresponding glutathione S‐transferase (GST) fusion proteins. The Rac‐like sequence is derived from an Arabidopsis cDNA library (Newman et al., 1994; Collins and Johnson, 1997), but is absent from the completed Arabidopsis genome (Arabidopsis Genome Initiative, 2000). The Rac‐like sequence was not detected in genomic Southern hybridization (data not shown), suggesting that it is not an Arabidopsis clone. Both [γ‐32P]GTP and [α‐32P]GTP were used in filter binding assays to allow for determination of the relative contribution of intrinsic GTP hydrolysis and GTP–GDP dissociation. The GTP–GDP off rates for the plant Rho GTPases were found to be low relative to GTP hydrolysis, as shown by the different kinetics of loss of label for [α‐32P]‐ and [γ‐32P]GTP, respectively (FIG-REF). The GTP–GDP off rate for AtRop4 was higher than for AtRop6. Both Rop GTPases had similar intrinsic GTP hydrolysis rates of 0.040/min and 0.043/min, respectively. A constitutively active mutant AtRop4 G15V had no measurable GTP hydrolysis (result not shown). The different GTPase activities of AtRab11c and Rac‐like protein (0.23/min) reflected the functional difference from the Rop GTPases, whereas the similar rates of GTP hydrolysis for AtRop4 and AtRop6 suggested a high degree of functional conservation between these Rop genes. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To study the localization of AtRop4 in the living cell, the N‐terminally tagged green fluorescent protein (GFP)–Rho GTPase was expressed in stably transformed tobacco BY‐2 cells using the dexamethasone‐inducible GVG system (Aoyama and Chua, 1997). GFP–AtRop4 was predominantly localized to the plasma membrane, especially to the cross‐wall and cell plate membranes, with occasional localization in vesicles. A fraction of GFP–AtRop4 was localized in the cytoplasm, as indicated by a diffuse staining of the cytoplasmic strands and the region surrounding the nucleus (FIG-REF). In contrast, control GFP accumulated in the nucleus and showed a diffuse labelling of the cytoplasm without plasma membrane staining (FIG-REF). Using anti‐GFP monoclonal antibodies, GFP–AtRop4 fusion protein of the predicted size could be immunoprecipitated from a cell extract of the transgenic line, with some evidence of protein degradation (FIG-REF). To determine the localization of endogenous Rop GTPases, antiserum was raised against AtRop4 and tested using the transgenic BY‐2 culture. GFP–AtRop4 fusion protein was detected using the affinity‐purified anti serum (FIG-REF). In addition, the antibody was effective in specifically immunoprecipitating GFP–AtRop4 fusion protein from whole cell extract (FIG-REF). Longer exposures revealed one additional band (21 kDa) of the right size for endogenous tobacco Rop proteins (not shown). Endogenous Arabidopsis Rop proteins were also detected specifically in immunoprecipitates from whole seedling extracts (FIG-REF). Due to the high homology of the different Rop proteins, the AtRop4 antibody is likely to be reactive against all Rop isoforms. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Root hair elongation is an example of tip growth in plants and shares many similarities with growing pollen tubes. To determine a possible role for Rop GTPases in root hair formation and probably of other root cells as well, the antiserum against AtRop4 was used for immunolocalization in Arabidopsis seedlings. Rop GTPases were highly enriched in the basal and apical plasma membranes in cells of the division zone of the primary root (FIG-REF), and in the cell membranes of lateral root primordia (FIG-REF). In the cell elongation zone, AtRop proteins were found to be polarly localized in the plasma membranes of the trichoblast cell files before the root hair bulges became visible (FIG-REF). In the differentiation zone of the root, AtRop proteins remained concentrated in the apical membrane of root hair bulges and at tips of growing root hairs, but were absent from the apical membrane of fully grown root hairs from the older zone of the root. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To find the requirements for polar localization of AtRop proteins on the trichoblast plasma membrane, we tested several inhibitors of root hair tip growth. Actin‐disrupting drugs latrunculin B (1 μM, 2 h) and cytochalasin D (10 μM, 2 h) did not inhibit the early polar localization of AtRop proteins in trichoblasts (as shown for cytochalasin D; FIG-REF), in agreement with the reported lack of effect of these drugs on root hair initiation (Miller et al., 1999; Ovecka et al., 2000). Likewise, tubulin‐depolymerizing drugs propyzamide (10 μg/ml, 2 h) and colchicine (10 mM, 2 h) did not affect the polar localization of AtRop proteins at the early stage (not shown). Also, caffeine (10 mM, 2 h, used as a putative Ca2+ flux antagonist) had no effect on early AtRop protein localization (FIG-REF), in agreement with the reported lack of effect of Ca2+ channel blocker verapamil on root hair budding (Wymer et al., 1997). However, brefeldin A (BFA, 5–50 μg/ml, 0.5–2 h), a pharmacological inhibitor of ARF1 guanine nucleotide exchange activity, was effective in inhibiting polar localization of Rop in trichoblast cell files (total of 20 independent treatments). Only four of 20 samples contained roots with occasional Rop spots left at wrong positions in the trichoblast plasma membrane, or showed incomplete inhibition of localization as shown in FIG-REF. A difference in AtRop protein contents of trichoblasts and atrichoblasts was visible, which might be caused by trichoblast‐specific AtRop gene expression. BFA also inhibited localization of AtRop proteins in the transverse plasma membranes in the cell division zone of the root (not shown). Washing away BFA reversibly allowed the relocalization of AtRop proteins to the bud sites (nine treatments) sometimes with trichoblasts having spots at wrong positions (in three of nine treatments). This recovery could be observed after 30 min and was insensitive to 1 μM latrunculin B (not shown), confirming that early polar localization of Rop GTPase is independent of the actin cytoskeleton. To determine a role for Arabidopsis Rop GTPases in root hair formation, transgenic Arabidopsis lines were generated that inducibly expressed wild‐type, constitutively active and dominant‐negative forms of GFP‐tagged Rop GTPases. In addition, transgenic lines were made that expressed GFP fused to the C‐terminal 20 amino acids of AtRop4 (GFP–AtRop4 tail). The GVG system was used to avoid gene silencing or toxic effects associated with constitutive AtRop GTPase expression (Aoyama and Chua, 1997). Different transgenic lines expressed variable quantities of inducible GFP fusion protein, mostly with low levels in the stem and leaves, relatively strong labelling of guard cells and trichomes, high levels in roots, but not in root meristem. Expression in pollen tubes was absent, precluding determination of a role for these Rop GTPases in pollen tube tip growth. To circumvent possible phenotypes caused by expression of transcriptional activator GVG alone (Kang et al., 1999), multiple lines were screened for each construct allowing the identification of specific phenotypes. Seedlings expressing the constitutively active GFP–AtRop4 G15V mutant showed strong swelling of the epidermal cells of the hypocotyl and cotyledons (12 of 16 lines) concomitant with loss of tip growth in three lines (FIG-REF). Swollen epidermal cells were always green fluorescent, indicating that the swelling was caused by expression of the GFP fusion protein in individual cells. In five transgenic lines showing green fluorescent tip‐growing root hairs, both constitutively active GFP–AtRop4 G15V (three of 16 lines) and GFP–AtRop6 Q64L (two of three lines) caused loss of tip growth resulting in root hair swelling (FIG-REF). The expression of GFP–Rop in most lines was patchy, and in such lines expressing constitutively active Rop only fluorescent root hair cells were swollen, while non‐expressing root hairs developed normally (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). The occurrence of the root hair phenotype was associated with an increase in diameter of the root elongation zone. Mature epidermal root cells were not affected, suggesting that the phenotype was specific for elongating cells. The finished bulges were found to contain extensive actin and tubulin cytoskeletons (FIG-REF). Long actin bundles were present, with a net‐like arrangement of finer filaments. Microtubules were more randomly oriented and shorter than microtubules in mature root hairs or root epidermal cells, possibly as a consequence of isotropic growth. Swollen epidermal cells of the hypocotyl and swollen root hairs were not observed in dexamethasone‐treated Arabidopsis wild‐type seedlings nor in induced transgenic lines expressing either wild‐type GFP–AtRop4 (nine lines), dominant‐negative GFP–AtRop4 T20N (25 lines) or GFP–AtRop4 tail (20 lines). The phenotype was reproducible in T2 and T3 generations. The experiment indicated that cell swelling was specific for constitutively activated Rop, and thus pointed to an important role for Rop GTPases in root hair tip growth and also in elongation of epidermal cells of the hypocotyl. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To study Ca2+ gradients in wild‐type and mutant root hairs, we microinjected root hairs with Indo‐dextran for confocal ratio imaging (Wymer et al., 1997). In wild‐type root hairs (e.g. Wymer et al., 1997; Bibikova et al., 1999) and in uninduced GFP–Rop6 Q64L roots (FIG-REF), a tip‐localized Ca2+ gradient was first visible after early bulge formation and disappeared at the end of tip growth. Early trichoblasts from induced seedlings had low Ca2+ levels similar to the uninduced control (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Swelling root hairs from induced GFP–Rop6 Q64L roots had delocalized Ca2+ gradients focused on where growth was occurring (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Delocalization of the Ca2+ gradient could already be observed at the early stage of tip growth (FIG-REF). GFP fusion protein was evenly distributed over the trichoblast plasma membrane (e.g. FIG-REF), and did not colocalize with the tip‐high Ca2+ gradient. Also, expression of GFP–Rop6 Q64L in root cortical cells did not result in higher Ca2+ levels (FIG-REF), indicating that GTP‐bound Rop is not sufficient to generate high Ca2+. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! AtRop4 (U52350), AtRop6 (U43501) and Rac‐like (U88402) ESTs were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. AtRab11c cDNA (U74669) was isolated from an Arabidopsis cDNA library (Bischoff et al., 2000). Mutations were made in AtRop4 (G15V and T20N) and in AtRop6 (Q64L). Wild‐type inserts, mutant inserts and an AtRop4 fragment corresponding to the C‐terminal 20 amino acids, were obtained by PCR using Pfu polymerase. PCR products were cloned into the EcoRI and SalI sites of pBluescript II SK, and sequenced to confirm the presence of desired mutations and the absence of PCR errors. Rho GTPase cDNA inserts were directionally cloned behind the GFP open reading frame (ORF) of a modified version of pCKGFP (Reichel et al., 1996). pCATGFPnostop has a plant expression cassette containing the CaMV 35S promoter with a duplicated transcriptional enhancer, a tobacco etch virus translational enhancer (TL), a GFP S65C ORF with additional M153T and V163A mutations and no stop codon, and at the end the CaMV 35S polyadenylation signal. pBluescript Rho PCR clones were cut with BamHI–SalI and the inserts were cloned into the BamHI–XbaI sites of pCATGFPnostop. XhoI–HindIII blunt fragments lacking the enhanced CaMV 35S promoter were directionally cloned into the XhoI–SpeI blunt sites of pTA7002, which allows dexamethasone‐inducible expression (Aoyama and Chua, 1997). Small GTPase cDNAs were cloned in‐frame into pGEX‐5x‐1 (Smith and Johnson, 1988). GST–GTPase fusion proteins were purified from Escherichia coli strain DH5α, and GTPase assays were carried out using a preloading step with [γ‐32P]GTP (Self and Hall, 1995). Growth of tobacco BY‐2 cells was according to Nagata et al. (1992), and transformation was performed using Agrobacterium strain GV3101 (pMP90). pTA7002 transformants were replica‐plated on BY‐2/agar medium containing 60 μM dexamethasone and allowed to grow for 48 h. Calli expressing inducible GFP fusion proteins were identified using fluorescence microscopy. GFP‐positive calli were transferred to liquid BY‐2 medium with selection and grown as cell suspensions. Arabidopsis transgenic plants were obtained using Agrobacterium‐mediated transformation. To observe root hair phenotypes, GFP–Rop fusion proteins were induced by growing seedlings in medium containing 0.5× MS salts, 1% sucrose and B5 vitamins, and 10 μM dexamethasone for 16–48 h. Rabbit antisera were raised against gel‐purified bacterial GST–AtRop4 antigen and affinity purified using His6‐tagged AtRop4 protein. Six‐day‐old suspension cultures of BY‐2 transgenic lines were induced with 30 μM dexamethasone for 20 h. Cells were pelleted, resuspended in buffer A (50 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.6, 50 mM NaCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 20 μM dithiothreitol, 1% NP‐40, 0.05% SDS and protease inhibitors), sonicated on ice and then centrifuged at 10 000 g for 15 min at 4°C. Anti‐GFP monoclonal antibodies (Roche) were added to the supernatant, immune complexes were bound to protein G–CL‐4B agarose beads and analysed by SDS–PAGE and western blotting according to standard procedures. Blots were incubated with affinity‐purified anti‐AtRop4 antibody, or with a polyclonal anti‐GFP antibody (Molecular Probes), peroxidase‐conjugated protein A (Pierce), followed by antigen detection using a chemiluminescent substrate (Pierce). AtRop4 antiserum was used in a similar way but using protein A–CL‐4B agarose beads. Whole mount immunofluorescence staining of Arabidopsis seedlings was performed according to Müller et al. (1998). Immunofluorescence detection of actin and tubulin in Arabidopsis seedlings was performed using the freeze‐shattering procedure according to Braun et al. (1999). Root cells were microinjected with the fluorescent Ca2+‐indicating dye Indo‐1 conjugated to a 10 kDa dextran (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR), and [Ca2+] was monitored by confocal ratio imaging, according to Wymer et al. (1997). When roots were induced with 10 μM dexamethasone, only cells showing GFP expression were used in subsequent microinjection and [Ca2+] measurements. In situ calibration using 10 μM Ca2+ ionophore (Br A23187) and a range of BAPTA Ca2+ buffers (Wymer et al., 1997) indicated that the responsiveness of Indo‐1 to changes in [Ca2+] was unchanged in the GFP‐expressing cells.
