!~ABS~! The Spo11 protein is an eukaryotic homologue of the topoisomerase 6 subunit A from archaebacteria. In yeast Spo11p has been found to bind covalently to double-strand breaks (DSBs) during meiosis. Single homologues of the SPO11 gene exist in various eukaryotes, except plants. Previously, we found in the Arabidopsis thaliana genome two ancient paralogs, AtSPO11-1 and 2. Here we report on the molecular characterization of a third one, AtSPO11-3. This puzzling finding might be explained by the fact that we detected additionally – for the first time outside of the archaebacterial kingdom – a homologue of the subunit B of topoisomerase 6, AtTOP6B. Both AtSPO11-3 and AtTOP6B are abundantly expressed in Arabidopsis and EST comparisons indicate the presence of both genes in various plant species. Via two hybrid studies we could demonstrate that full length AtTop6B is able to interact with AtSpo11-2 and 3 but not with AtSpo11-1. Our data suggest that plants possess in contrast to other eukaryotes an additional archaebacterial kind of topoisomerase.
!~RES~! Performing BLAST searches (TBLASTN) with the sequences of AtSpo11-1 (CITATION) or topoisomerase 6B from archaebacteria (CITATION) we identified one BAC for each factor in the translated genomic database of A. thaliana. With a combination of RT-PCR and 5′- and 3′-RACE techniques (CITATION) we isolated the full length cDNAs of both genes. In contrast to AtSPO11-1 and 2 which possess 15 and 11 introns, respectively, AtSPO11-3 harbors only one intron (CITATION). The deduced protein consists of 427 aa and could be matched very well to Spo11 proteins from various organisms including AtSpo11-1 and 2 (CITATION). All five conserved motifs (CITATION) (motif 1 to 5 in CITATION) are present. In one of the most conserved regions AtSpo11-3 contains only the active tyrosine and not a dyad tyrosine as it is the case for most other Spo11 proteins (CITATION, motif 1, asterisk). Similar with AtSpo11-1, but in contrast to AtSpo11-2, AtSpo11-3 harbors the conserved DXD sequence in motif 5 which is proposed to coordinate MgCl2 (CITATION). Notably, AtSPO11-3 possesses various polyadenylation sites. We have sequenced 18 different 3′-RACE clones and found 13 different pA-sites distributed over the whole 3′-UTR (CITATION). The full length cDNA of AtTOP6B revealed that this gene harbors 18 introns (CITATION), a number much higher than the average of Arabidopsis (CITATION) and similar to several other genes involved in recombination processes in plants as AtSPO11-1 and 2, AtMRE11, the A. thaliana RECQ family and AtLIG4 (CITATION). The deduced protein consists of 670 aa and can easily be aligned to its archaebacterial homologues (CITATION). The domains for ATP hydrolysis (CITATION, motif B1) and binding (CITATION, motif B2 and B3) are conserved (CITATION). Besides this three domains we could identify a fourth motif highly conserved between archaebacteria and A. thaliana (CITATION motif 4). Nevertheless, there is a notable difference between the A. thaliana and the archaebacterial protein sequences: In AtTop6B there is an insertion of 68 amino acids between positions 62 and 130 which is not present in the archaebacterial sequences. Southern analysis demonstrated that both genes occur as single copy in the Arabidopsis thaliana genome (data not shown). Using a comparative RT-PCR we found that AtSPO11-3 and AtTOP6B are highly expressed in rosette leaves, stems, flowers and seedlings (CITATION). This is in contrast to AtSPO11-1 and 2 which are both preferentially expressed in flowers, but at a lower level (CITATION). In a dilution series of flower mRNA we were able to demonstrate that mRNAs of AtSPO11-3 and AtTOP6B are both at least two orders of magnitude more abundant than mRNA from AtSPO11-1, and three orders of magnitude more abundant than mRNA from AtSPO11-2 (CITATION). The diffuse bands of AtSPO11-1 PCR-products are due to multiple PCR products resulting from alternative splicing which we described earlier (CITATION). Using the translated full length open reading frames from AtSPO11-1 to 3 and AtTOP6B for database searches of dbEST we obtained multiple hits in the plant kingdom, mostly for AtSPO11-3 and AtTOP6B, as expected due to their high mRNA levels in Arabidopsis thaliana. AtSPO11-3 homologues were detected as ESTs in Pinus taeda, Zea mays, Sorghum bicolor, Lotus japonicus, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and Arabidopsis thaliana itself. For AtTOP6B we found homologues in Lycopersicon esculentum, Medicago truncatula, Triticum monococcum, Cucumis sativa and Glycine max. For AtSPO11-2 we found only two ESTs, one in Secale cereale and the other in Oryza sativa, AtSPO11-1 showed so far no EST match in plants at all. Searching the GenBank database, we were able to detect homologous genomic sequences from other plants. AtSPO11-1 showed 70% homology to a genomic survey sequence from Oryza sativa (AZ125940) containing exon 4 and 5 with an intron in homologous position to intron 4 of AtSPO11-1. AtSPO11-2 has a homologous counterpart in Medicago truncatula. We found a genomic survey sequence (AQ917329) showing 80% homology to AtSPO11-2 and interestingly also precise conservation of the respective intron positions (intron 8 and 9 of AtSPO11-2) with respect to the coding region. In summary, we conclude that all four homologues of the archaebacterial topoisomerase 6 are present throughout the plant kingdom. This furthermore sustains our hypothesis (CITATION) that the three AtSPO11 genes did not arise by recent duplication events within the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION). After the isolation of homologues for both subunits of archaebacterial Topoisomerase 6 from Arabidopsis, it was tempting to test putative interactions between them. Therefore we conducted a two hybrid direct interaction assay using the cloned full length cDNAs. Interestingly, we were able to demonstrate that AtTop6B is interacting strongly with AtSpo11-2 (CITATION , left upper panel) and also significantly with the AtSpo11-3 protein (CITATION, lower left panel). However, there was no detectable interaction between AtTop6B and AtSpo11-1 (CITATION, right upper panel). The N-terminal part (first 136 aa) of AtSpo11-3 alone did not show an interaction with AtTop6B (CITATION, lower right panel). The interaction of AtSpo11-2 and AtTop6B was as strong as the control consisting of the SNF1 and 4 cDNA (CITATION panel in the middle).
!~MM~! The cDNA sequences for AtSPO11-3 and AtTOP6B have been deposited in the EMBL GenBank under the accession numbers AJ297842 and AJ297843. AtSPO11-3 corresponds to the genomic BAC clone AL162937 and AtTOP6B to AB025629. BLAST searches were performed within the Stanford genomic database resources of A. thaliana using the AtSpo11-1 and archaebacterial topoisomerase 6B protein sequences and TBLASTN (CITATION). Sequence analysis was done with DNASTAR (Lasergene) and multiple alignments on the internet using CLUSTALW (Version 1.7). Pairwise comparisons were done with the MEGALIGN program (Lipman–Pearson method) of the DNASTAR package (Lasergene) using a Ktuple of 2 and a gap penalty of 4. Signal peptide searches were done on the internet using the following programs: PredoTar (www.inra.fr/Internet/Produits/Predotar/index.html), TargetP (www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP) and MitoP (www.mips.biochem.mpg.de/cgi-bin/proj/medgen/mitofilter). RNA was isolated from the Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia using the Plant RNA Midi Kit (peqlab, Erlangen) following the instructions of the manufacturer. The following tissues were used: mature rosette leaves, flower shoots, complete flowers or 2–4 week old sterile grown seedlings. The isolated total RNA was used for enrichment of polyA+-RNA with the mRNA enrichment Kit (peqlab, Erlangen) following the instructions of the manufacturer. Genomic DNA of A. thaliana ecotype Columbia was isolated from 2–4 week old sterile grown seedlings with the Plant DNA Midi Kit (peqlab, Erlangen). Reverse transcription, comparative RT-PCR as well as 5′- and 3′- RACE were performed as described earlier (CITATION). Sequencing of PCR and RACE products was done with the ABI Prism Big Dye™ Terminator Cycle Sequencing Reaction Kit (PE Applied Biosystems, Weiterstadt) either directly or after cloning (3′RACE) into pGEM T-easy vector (Promega, Mannheim). Before sequencing the templates were purified with the High Pure PCR-Product Purification Kit from Roche-Molecular Biochemicals (Mannheim). To test possible protein-protein interactions between the proteins of our interest, we used the MATCHMAKER Two-Hybrid System 2 from Clontech (Heidelberg) with the GAL4AD-vector pGAD-GH and the GAL4BD-vector pAS2-1. The X-gal staining was performed by the colony-lift filter assay according to the Clontech protocol. The clones were also tested for self-activation without interaction partner by growing on HIS minus medium with 25 mM 3-AT (3-Aminotriazol) using the same staining procedure. After the staining assay we checked via PCR for the presence of the inserted cDNAs in all tested yeast clones.
