!~ABS~! Galactolipids make up the bulk of chloroplast lipids. Therefore, the genes involved in the synthesis of the galactolipids monogalactosyldiacylglycerol (MGDG) and digalactosyldiacylglycerol (DGDG) play a critical role in chloroplast development. In this study, we analyzed the subcellular localization of the Arabidopsis DGDG synthase DGD1, which was recently identified by complementation of the Arabidopsis dgd1mutant. In vitro import experiments demonstrated that DGD1 was targeted to the chloroplast outer envelope in an ATP-independent manner. DGD1 could not be extracted from the membranes by high salt or alkali, suggesting that it is an integral membrane protein. Uptake experiments with truncated versions of DGD1 indicated that the information for targeting and insertion into the outer envelope resides in the N-terminal half of DGD1, but not in the first 33 amino acids. DGD1 apparently does not contain a cleavable signal peptide. Antibodies to Arabidopsis DGD1 detected a 90-kDa protein localized to the chloroplast envelopes of both pea and Arabidopsis. Transformation of DGD1 constructs into cyanobacteria resulted in the expression of active DGDG synthase and demonstrated that DGDG synthesis depends on MGDG lipid, but does not require direct interaction with the plant MGDG synthase. 
!~RES~! Import experiments of in vitro expressed proteins using isolated chloroplasts have been widely employed to determine the subcellular localization of proteins within chloroplasts (CITATION). We therefore used the entire DGD1open reading frame for in vitro expression and uptake experiments into pea chloroplasts (Fig.1 A). In vitrotranslation of DGD1 generated a 35S-labeled protein of ∼90 kDa, which correlates well with the predicted size of theDGD1 open reading frame. Additional smaller radioactive polypeptides were detected in the translation product lane derived from translation of the entire DGD1 open reading frame as well as shorter constructs (see below). These additional bands are supposedly derived from truncated translation products. 35S-Labeled DGD1 was incubated with isolated chloroplasts and fractionated into a total membrane (M) and soluble (S) fraction (Fig.1). DGD1 consistently fractionated to the total membrane fraction (Fig.1 A, lanes 1, 5, and 9), which contains inner and outer envelope membranes as well as thylakoids. DGD1 association with the chloroplast membrane was ATP-independent (Fig. 1 A, compare lanes 1–4 withlanes 5–8 and 9–12), and the protein did not undergo any detectable processing. Furthermore, the association of DGD1 with chloroplast membranes was specific because under similar conditions, luciferase, which was used as a control protein not localized to chloroplasts, did not associate with the chloroplast membrane (Fig. 1 B, lanes 1–12). Hence, the ATP-independent association of DGD1 with chloroplast membranes presumably utilizes the OM14 targeting pathway (CITATION, CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] Following a DGD1 uptake experiment, chloroplasts were treated with thermolysin to remove all surface-exposed proteins facing the cytosol. DGD1 was susceptible to digestion by thermolysin (Fig. 1 A,lanes 3, 7, and 11), indicating that DGD1 has considerable thermolysin-sensitive domains orientated toward the cytosol. The protease sensitivity of DGD1 was similar to that observed for OM14, which is shown as a control for an authentic outer envelope protein (Fig. 1 C, lanes 1–4). In contrast, the small subunit of Rubisco (pSS), which is imported into the stroma and processed during uptake, was protected from thermolysin degradation (Fig. 1 D, lanes 1–4). Other proteinases such as trypsin and proteinase K likewise completely digested DGD1 after uptake (data not shown), providing additional support for the finding that the predominant part of the DGD1 polypeptide faces the cytosol.  Since DGD1 did not require ATP for import, we addressed the question of whether its membrane association depends on the presence of surface-exposed receptors on the chloroplast envelope. Chloroplasts were pretreated with thermolysin to degrade surface-exposed receptor proteins prior to targeting experiments with DGD1. As shown in Fig.2, the association of DGD1 and OM14 was not affected by pretreatment with thermolysin (Fig. 2, A andB, compare lanes 1 and 3), whereas import of pSS, a protein requiring receptor proteins at the outer envelope, was essentially abolished (Fig. 2 C, comparelanes 2 and 4). We conclude from these observations that the association of DGD1 with chloroplasts is ATP-independent and does not require surface-exposed receptors.  [[FIGURE]] To investigate the exact suborganellar localization of DGD1, a detailed fractionation analysis was performed in which chloroplasts derived from a large-scale import reaction were separated into outer (OM) and inner (IM) envelopes, stromata (Str), and thylakoids (Thy) (Fig.3). The DGD1 protein was localized to the outer envelope fraction (Fig. 3 A, lane 3), similar to OM14, which is known to be localized to the outer envelope (Fig. 3 B, lane 3). In contrast, no DGD1 was observed that co-fractionated with tp110-110N, a marker protein for the inner envelope (Fig. 3 C, lanes 4 and5), or the small subunit of Rubisco (pSS), a protein targeted to the stroma (Fig. 3 D, lane 6). Therefore, DGD1 behaves as a chloroplast outer envelope membrane protein.  [[FIGURE]] The vast majority of proteins taken up by chloroplasts are synthesized as precursors with an N-terminal transit peptide that is removed after import (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). DGD1 processing could not be detected upon insertion into the chloroplast membrane (Fig. 1 A). Nevertheless, a non-cleavable targeting signal that directs DGD1 to the chloroplast membrane may be located at the N terminus. However, identifying chloroplast targeting sequences imbedded within a membrane protein has proven difficult. We therefore attempted to find putative targeting sequences using various software tools (ChloroP Version 1.0 and SignalP Version 1.1 (CITATION) and SPSCAN of the GCG software, Genetics Computer Group, Inc., Madison, WI). The outcome of these computer analyses suggested the following. (i) Amino acids Met1–Ala33 might represent a putative targeting sequence (Fig. 4 A). This N-terminal region of DGD1 is rich in hydroxylated amino acid residues (54% serine/threonine content), which is a common feature of transit peptides (CITATION, CITATION). (ii) Hydrophobicity analysis predicted the presence of five hydrophobic regions stretching from amino acids 22 to 37, 136 to 150, 248 to 259, 347 to 372, and 644 to 670 (Fig.4 B, black boxes). Although only the regions of amino acids 347–372 and 644–670 are sufficient in length to represent transmembrane domains, it is unknown which of these regions might be essential for targeting of DGD1 to and insertion into the chloroplast envelope. (iii) Sequence comparison with other plant genes deposited in the GenBankTM/EBI Data Bank revealed that DGD1 is composed of two domains, a C-terminal domain with sequence similarity to glycosyltransferases and an N-terminal domain of unknown function (CITATION). To analyze the role of all of these domains for targeting properties, truncated versions of the DGD1 cDNA were prepared forin vitro import assays (Fig. 4 C). These constructs encompassed the entire DGD1 open reading frame, a cDNA lacking the N-terminal 33 amino acids (DGD1-noSP), the N-terminal part of DGD1 up to Pro337 (DGD1-N), and the C-terminal part of DGD1 starting with Glu338 (DGD1-C).  [[FIGURE]] DGD1 and truncated versions of DGD1 were incubated with chloroplasts and subsequently fractionated into a mixed envelope fraction (containing outer and inner envelopes) using a sucrose step gradient and ultracentrifugation (Fig. 5,A–D, lanes 1 and 2). Isolated mixed envelopes were extracted with buffer (Fig. 5, A–F,lanes 1 and 2), NaCl (lanes 3 and4), or Na2CO3 (lanes 5and 6). The proteins allene-oxide synthase (extractable with Na2CO3 solution) and OM14 (not extractable with Na2CO3) served as controls (Fig. 5,E and F). DGD1, DGD1-noSP, and DGD1-N all associated with the envelope fraction and could not be extracted by treatment with NaCl or Na2CO3. Although DGD1-C contains two predicted transmembrane domains (residues 347–372 and 644–670), it did not associate with or insert into the chloroplast envelope. Hence, these domains may serve as components of the active site of the predicted glycosyltransferase rather than being involved in targeting (Fig. 5 D). Therefore, DGD1, DGD1-noSP, and DGD1-N behaved as integral membrane proteins and contain the targeting determinants of DGD1 that are predominantly located at the N terminus of the protein. Furthermore, the association of DGD1 with the envelope membrane does not require an N-terminal transit peptide. However, the first 33 amino acids do appear to improve the affinity of DGD1 for the chloroplast envelope (Fig. 5, A and B,lanes 1–6, compare insertions of DGD1 and DGD1-noSP).  [[FIGURE]] Pea chloroplasts derived from a large-scale isolation experiment were separated into outer (OM) and inner (IM) envelopes, stromata (Str), and thylakoids (Thy) (Fig. 6 A). Since obtaining high amounts of Arabidopsis chloroplasts for detailed fractionation studies proved very difficult, Arabidopsischloroplasts were separated only into mixed envelopes (Env), stromata, and thylakoids (Fig. 6 B). Chloroplast fractions were analyzed by Western blotting and probed with antibodies raised against Arabidopsis DGD1 (C-terminal half) or, as controls, pea Tic110 (inner envelope marker) and pea Toc75 (outer envelope marker). Anti-DGD1 antibodies detected a 90-kDa protein that localized to both the pea outer envelope (Fig. 6 A, lane 1) and thylakoid (lane 4) fractions. The fractionation pattern of DGD1 was identical to that of Toc75, a protein known to be localized to the outer envelope of pea chloroplasts (CITATION). The presence of Tic110, DGD1, and Toc75 in the thylakoid fraction is not surprising because thylakoids are usually contaminated with outer and inner envelopes. Interestingly, DGD1 was not detected in the pea inner envelope fraction, whereas Tic110 was readily detected (Fig. 6 A, compare lanes 1 and 2). Likewise, DGD1 was detected in the total envelope fraction of Arabidopsis (Fig.6 B, lane 1). However, further separation into outer and inner envelopes could not be achieved due to limitations in the availability of Arabidopsis chloroplasts.  [[FIGURE]] Whereas amino acids 22–38 of DGD1 contain a stretch of hydrophobic residues, which could be important for protein-membrane interactions, the N-terminal 33 amino acids of DGD1 were not required for targeting to chloroplasts (Figs. 4and 5). Hence, we considered the possibility that this hydrophobic portion of the N terminus may play a role in the assembly of a functionally active enzyme within the envelope. We therefore expressed the entire open reading frame of DGD1 as well as a truncated version of DGD1 missing the N-terminal 33 amino acids (DGD1-noSP) in a recombinant expression system. We chose Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 since cyanobacteria contain high amounts of MGDG, which has been shown to be a required substrate for DGD1 (CITATION). Lipids were isolated and quantified from a control culture and from DGD1- and DGD1-noSP-expressing cyanobacterial cells. The two lines expressing DGD1 and DGD1-noSP were both capable of converting MGDG to DGDG because they contain strongly reduced amounts of MGDG and a 2-fold increase in DGDG (TableI). We did not find any difference in lipid or fatty acid composition between these two lines. The fatty acid composition of the two galactolipids in the two overexpressing lines and in the control stayed the same, with 16:0, 16:1Δ9, 18:2Δ9,12, and 18:3Δ6,9,12 representing the most abundant fatty acids (data not shown). Therefore, the N-terminal 33 amino acids of DGD1 do not appear to be essential for DGDG synthase activity.  [[TABLE]]
!~MM~! Pea seeds (cultivar little marvel) were obtained from Olds Seed Co. (Madison, WI). Arabidopsisplants (wild-type Col-2 or dgd1 mutant) were grown in tissue culture or in soil as previously described (CITATION).  The DGD1cDNA (clone 22-1) (CITATION) was the template for PCR amplification of different parts of the coding region. Oligonucleotides were used for PCR with BamHI sites (primers Ben271, PD1, and PD2) orPstI sites (primers Ben241 and PD3) at their 5′-ends for subcloning into pBluescript II KS+. In addition, primers Ben271, PD1, and PD2 introduced a new in-frame start codon into the amplified PCR product, whereas primers PD3 and Ben241 carried an in-frame stop codon. Amplification with Ben271 (GCG GAT CCA TGT TAT CGT TTT TGT CGA AA) and Ben241 (TTC TGCA GTC TAC CAG CCG AAG ATT GG) yielded a cDNA encoding a truncated DGD1 protein lacking the N-terminal 33 amino acids (DGD1-noSP). The fragment amplified with primers PD1 (CCG GAT CCC ATG GTA AAG GAA ACT CTA) and PD3 (GGC TGC AGC TAA GGC TTCA CAA AAT CAG T) resulted in a cDNA encoding the N-terminal part of DGD1 up to Pro337 (DGD1-N). PCR of clone 22-1 with primers PD2 (TCG GAT CCA TGG AGA CAC CGG AAA ACA AA) and Ben241 produced a fragment encoding the C-terminal half of DGD1 starting with Glu338 (DGD1-C).  For heterologous expression in E. coli, the part of clone 22-1 encoding the C-terminal half of DGD1 was amplified by PCR using primers Ben293 (ATG GAT CCG GAG ACA CCG GAA AAC AAA) and Ben241. This fragment was ligated into the BamHI and PstI sites of pQE31 (QIAGEN Inc., Hilden, Germany), resulting in the construct pQE31-293, and transformed into E. coli M15(pREP4) for protein expression and antibody generation.  The Ω cassette was released from pHP45 (CITATION) with HindIII and ligated into the broad host range expression vector pRL59EH (CITATION, CITATION), resulting in plasmid pRL59-Ω. The full-length DGD1 cDNA of clone 22-1 (CITATION) or a truncated version lacking the signal peptide (DGD1-noSP; see above) was digested with BamHI and XhoI and ligated into theBamHI and SalI sites of pRL59-Ω.Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 was transformed by conjugation (CITATION) and grown photoautotrophically at 28 °C as described (CITATION). Lipids were isolated from Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 cultures harboring the different constructs (pRL59-Ω control or DGD1 or DGD1-noSP in pRL59-Ω), separated by thin-layer chromatography, and quantified by gas chromatography after derivatization to fatty acid methyl esters (CITATION).  Plasmids containing cDNA clones of the following protein precursors were linearized as indicated: pSS (precursor to thesmall subunit of Rubisco) with PstI (CITATION), OM14 (outer chloroplast envelope membrane protein of 14 kDa) with EcoRI (CITATION), tp110-110N with XhoI (CITATION), allene-oxide synthase with XhoI (CITATION), and DGD1 and truncated DGD1 constructs with XhoI. After linearization, the cDNAs for pSS and OM14 were transcribed with SP6 RNA polymerase; tp110-110N and the truncated DGD1 constructs were transcribed with T7 RNA polymerase; and allene-oxide synthase and the full-length DGD1 cDNA were transcribed with T3 RNA polymerase. The mRNAs of pSS, tp110-110N, allene-oxide synthase, and the full-length and truncated constructs of DGD1 were translated using the nuclease-treated rabbit reticulocyte lysate translation system (Promega, Madison, WI) following the manufacturer's protocol. OM14 was translated using a wheat germ translation system as previously described (CITATION). All proteins were radiolabeled by translation in the presence of [35S]methionine.  Intact chloroplasts were isolated from 8–12-day-old pea seedlings (Pisum sativumcultivar little marvel) as previously described (CITATION).Arabidopsis chloroplasts were isolated according to Fitzpatrick and Keegstra (CITATION). Chloroplasts were washed twice with import buffer (50 mm HEPES-KOH (pH 7.5) and 0.33m sorbitol) and resuspended in the same buffer to a concentration of 1 mg/ml chlorophyll.  Binding and import experiments with 35S-labeled DGD1 protein were performed as previously described (CITATION). Briefly, prior to binding or import reactions, chloroplasts were incubated with 6 mm nigericin for 10 min in the dark to deplete internal ATP levels. In each reaction,35S-labeled DGD1, nigericin-treated chloroplasts, and 0, 0.1, or 4.0 mm MgATP were incubated in the dark for 30 min at room temperature. Intact chloroplasts were recovered by sedimentation through a 40% (v/v) Percoll cushion. The pellets were resuspended in lysis buffer (25 mm HEPES-KOH (pH 8.0) and 4 mm MgCl2) and incubated on ice for 15 min. The total membranes were separated from soluble fractions by ultracentrifugation at 100,000 × g. All fractions were analyzed by SDS-PAGE (CITATION) and fluorography. Treatment of binding and import reactions with thermolysin was performed for 30 min at 4 °C in the dark essentially as described (CITATION).  From a large-scale import reaction with35S-labeled protein, intact chloroplasts were recovered by sedimentation through a 40% (v/v) Percoll cushion. Purified chloroplasts were hypotonically lysed in lysis buffer for 20 min on ice. Mixed envelope membranes were recovered by a sucrose step gradient and ultracentrifugation as described (CITATION). After two extractions with NaCl (CITATION) or Na2CO3 (CITATION, CITATION) buffer, mixed envelope membranes were re-isolated by ultracentrifugation, and the supernatant was precipitated with trichloroacetic acid. Both mixed envelope membranes and supernatant fractions were analyzed by SDS-PAGE (CITATION) and fluorography.  Following a large-scale import reaction, chloroplasts were hypertonically lysed in 0.6 m sucrose, 25 mmHEPES-KOH (pH 8.0), and 4 mm MgCl2 for 20 min on ice. After one freeze-thaw cycle (−20 °C for 1 h), the solution was adjusted to 0.3 m sucrose by dilution with lysis buffer. The ruptured chloroplasts were then fractionated into outer envelope membranes, inner envelope membranes, stromata, and thylakoids using a sucrose step gradient and ultracentrifugation as described (CITATION). All fractions were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and fluorography.  All antibodies were polyclonal and raised in rabbits. Antisera to pea Tic110 (translocon of the inner envelope ofchloroplasts) and Toc75 (translocon of theouter envelope of chloroplasts) were prepared as described (CITATION). The C-terminal part of DGD1 was expressed inE. coli harboring the construct pQE31-293. Protein was solubilized with urea-containing buffers and purified by Ni2+-nitrilotriacetic acid affinity chromatography following the protocol of QIAGEN Inc. The purified DGD1 C-terminal polypeptide was used to raise polyclonal antiserum in rabbits. Pea andArabidopsis chloroplasts were isolated and fractionated as previously described (CITATION). Fractions were separated by SDS-PAGE, and proteins transferred onto polyvinylidene difluoride membranes (Immobilon P, Millipore Corp., Bedford, MA). Western blots were performed as described (CITATION). Primary antibodies were detected with alkaline phosphatase-conjugated goat anti-rabbit antibody (Kirkegaard & Perry Laboratories, Inc., Gaithersburg, MD). 
