!~ABS~! A new component of the chloroplast proteolytic machinery from Arabidopsis thaliana was identified as a SppA-type protease. The sequence of the mature protein, deduced from a full-length cDNA, displays 22% identity to the serine-type protease IV (SppA) from Escherichia coli and 27% identity to Synechocystis SppA1 (sll1703) but lacks the putative transmembrane spanning segments predicted from the E. coli sequence. The N-terminal sequence exhibits typical features of a cleavable chloroplast stroma-targeting sequence. The chloroplast localization of SppA was confirmed by in organello import experiments using an in vitro expression system and by immunodetection with antigen-specific antisera. Subfractionation of intact chloroplasts demonstrated that SppA is associated exclusively with thylakoid membranes, predominantly stroma lamellae, and is a part of some high molecular mass complex of about 270 kDa that exhibits proteolytic activity. Treatments with chaotropic salts and proteases showed that SppA is largely exposed to the stroma but that it behaves as an intrinsic membrane protein that may have an unusual monotopic arrangement in the thylakoids. We demonstrate that SppA is a light-inducible protease and discuss its possible involvement in the light-dependent degradation of antenna and photosystem II complexes that both involve serine-type proteases. 
!~RES~! A search of theArabidopsis data base revealed a DNA sequence exhibiting homology to the prokaryotic protease SppA. An expressed sequence tag (E8A10T7, accession number AA042706) of 835 base pairs was used as a probe for isolating the full-length cDNA by screening of an appropriate A. thaliana cDNA library. Five positive clones were selected. The recombinant DNA with the largest insert, 2196 base pairs (accession number AF114385), was sequenced. The presence of an in-frame stop codon at position −15, a typical translation initiation sequence−6GAAACAATGGCA+6 (CITATION) and a poly(A) tail at the 3′ end suggested that the insert comprised a full-length cDNA. It contained a single open reading frame of 2068 nucleotides, which corresponds to a polypeptide of 680 amino acid residues (Fig. 1) and a calculated molecular mass of 74.8 kDa. The coding region is preceded by a 28-base pair 5′-untranslated region and is trailed by an untranslated stretch of 119 base pairs. The N-terminal 68-residue domain of the protein displays typical features of a chloroplast stroma-targeting transit peptide (CITATION); it initiates with MetAla characteristic of such presequences (CITATION, CITATION) and contains positively charged (Arg) and hydrophilic short side chain residues (Ser, Ala) and a predicted amphiphilic β-sheet (residues 62–67). PSORT and ChloroP programs predicted two potential cleavage sites following Ala residues at positions 60 and 69, respectively (see arrowheads in Fig.1).  [[FIGURE]] Southern analysis of total Arabidopsis genomic DNA as well as a search through the A. thaliana Data Base (Stanford, CA) provided no evidence for a second sppA gene in theArabidopsis genome. High density filters of BAC contigs covering almost the entire Arabidopsis genome (CITATION) were used to substantiate the gene copy number and to determine the chromosomal localization of sppA. A signal consistent with a single gene copy was found on a single BAC (number F2P9) originating in chromosome I (data not shown). The recent sequencing of the Arabidopsisgenome (internet information at mips.gsf.de/proj/thal/) confirmed the presence of a single sppA gene on that chromosome (accession number AC016662).  To evaluate the chloroplast location of SppA, we conducted in organello import experiments with radiolabeled precursor protein made in vitro from the SppA cDNA. The sample displayed various premature termination products together with the precursor form of SppA, labeled p in Fig.2 (lane TP). The radiolabeled SppA precursor protein was successfully imported into intact chloroplasts from spinach and processed to the mature form (labeledm in Fig. 2). The imported mature SppA was resistant to proteolytic attack upon incubation of intact spinach chloroplasts with thermolysin or trypsin for 30 min (experiment not shown). Subfractionation of the organelles into thylakoid (Fig. 2, lane Th) and soluble stroma fractions (Fig. 2, lane S) showed that the radiolabeled SppA mature protein was recovered exclusively in the thylakoid fraction (Fig. 2, lane Th). The thylakoid location of SppA within the organelle was confirmed by a serological approach with stromal, thylakoid membrane and lumenal proteins prepared from intact Arabidopsis chloroplasts using an antiserum elicited against the C-terminal part of the protein (amino acid residues 493–680; Fig.3 A). SppA could be detected as a 68-kDa polypeptide that was exclusively associated with thylakoid membranes (Fig. 3 A).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We further fragmented thylakoid membranes by digitonin treatment and subsequent differential centrifugation. This treatment allowed separate fractions enriched in grana membranes, grana margins, and stroma lamellae (for details see “Experimental Procedures”). As illustrated by Fig. 3 B, the immunodetection of the 33-kDa subunit of the oxygen-evolving system of photosystem II showed a preferential location in the grana membranes and grana margins (lanes G and M in Fig. 3 B) in agreement with the well known distribution of that photosystem in the thylakoid system (CITATION). In contrast, SppA was highly enriched in stroma lamellae. Its presence in the grana fraction can be probably attributed to a cross-contamination inherent in the available procedures.  To estimate the nature of the association of SppA with the stroma lamellae, purified thylakoids were treated with solutions of chaotropic salts (NaBr and NaSCN) or with alkaline solutions (Na2CO3 and NaOH). The protein was partially released from the membranes only after treatment with the strong chaotropic reagent NaSCN (Fig. 4). That the membrane association of SppA resisted alkaline treatments as well as NaBr treatment suggests that SppA behaves rather as an integral than as a peripheral membrane protein.  [[FIGURE]] The topology of SppA within thylakoid membranes was further investigated by protease protection assays. Freshly prepared intact thylakoids or thylakoids permeabilized by sonication were treated with thermolysin, trypsin, or proteinase K (Fig.5). As a control experiment, we first assayed the thylakoid samples with an antibody against the 33-kDa protein of the oxygen-evolving system that is peripherally located at the lumenal face of thylakoid membranes (CITATION). In intact thylakoids (Fig. 5, left bottom panel), the 33-kDa protein remained fully protected against proteolytic attack, even using the harshest treatment with proteinase K. Upon thylakoid sonication, the 33-kDa protein became mildly sensitive to thermolysin and produced a degradation product of low molecular mass seen at the gel bottom. It was fully degraded by trypsin and proteinase K under the same conditions. Thus, the externally added proteases got full access to the lumenal membrane surface only upon sonication of the thylakoids.  [[FIGURE]] In intact thylakoids, SppA was partially digested by thermolysin or trypsin, and it was extensively digested by proteinase K (Fig. 5,left upper panel). Thus, SppA was readily accessible from the stromal surface to externally added proteases. Sonicated thylakoids that were also accessible to proteases from the lumenal surface displayed the same SppA proteolytic patterns as those observed with intact thylakoids. Thus, we conclude that SppA is exposed at the stromal face of thylakoids and that it has no notable protease-sensitive domains exposed to the thylakoid lumen.  To study the proteolytic activity of SppA we first attempted to overexpress precursor and mature forms of the protein in E. coli. Overexpression of the precursor form proved unsuccessful, whereas that of the mature form, starting from Phe60, resulted in low yield production of two truncated products (data not shown). These results suggest that the heterologous expression of chloroplast SppA was detrimental to the bacteria most likely by virtue of its homology to the bacterial SppA protease (CITATION). Therefore, the proteolytic activity of SppA was further analyzed by gel exclusion chromatography after mild solubilization of the major protein complexes from the thylakoid membranes. SppA was part of a high molecular mass complex of ∼270 kDa that eluted in fractions 15–17 marked in Fig.6 A, consistent with the homotetrameric structure of SppA from E. coli (CITATION). The fractions collected from size exclusion chromatography were analyzed both for the presence of SppA by immunodetection (Fig. 6 B) and for proteolytic activity (Fig. 6 C). The SppA-containing fractions, when run on nondenaturing gels containing gelatin, showed high proteolytic activity as visualized by the white band on a dark background (Fig. 6 C). The apparent molecular mass deduced from the electrophoretic migration of this proteolytically active band, ∼270 kDa, corresponded well with that of the complex eluted by size exclusion chromatography. Similar data were obtained by sucrose gradient centrifugation of thylakoid lysates according to Ref. CITATION (data not shown). The proteolytic activity of SppA was significantly inhibited by the specific antiserum (∼90%; no suppression occurred with preimmune serum), by phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride but not iodoacetamide consistent with a serine-type protease (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] RNA filter hybridization was employed to investigate the expression of SppA at the transcript level (Fig. 7). WhenArabidopsis plants were grown under moderate light (150 mE m−2 s−1), they displayed no detectable SppA transcript (Fig. 7, lane 0). However, the more sensitive combined the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction technique on a Light Cycler machine (Roche Molecular Biochemicals) allowed to detect minute amounts of the transcripts (data not shown). SppA transcripts remained below detection using conventional Northern procedures in plants after heat shock treatment (data not shown). However, when Arabidopsis plants were transferred to higher light intensities (e.g. 700 μE m−2s−1), a 2.2-kilobase pair SppA transcript became detectable after 10 h of exposure. The stationary mRNA concentrations increased about five times during the next 40 h under high light (Fig. 7, lanes 10–52 h). This light-induced transcription was accompanied by a substantial increase in the steady-state levels of the corresponding protein (Fig.8). In this experimentArabidopsis plants grown under moderate light for 6 days were either kept under the same light regime or transferred to darkness or to higher light intensities for 52 h. A serological identification of SppA using radiolabeled 125I-protein A (Fig. 8 A) or the ECL method (Fig. 8 B) revealed that the protein was already present in significant amounts in plants grown under moderate light conditions, although the corresponding transcript was hardly visible in Northern experiments (Fig. 7). Quantification using 125I-protein A showed that the SppA protein increased approximately four times after transfer ofArabidopsis plants to higher light intensities. The amount of cytochrome f, used here as a control, remained virtually unchanged under these conditions (Fig. 8 C). Using the nonquantitative but more sensitive ECL method (Fig. 8 B), we observed a lower molecular mass product that accumulated in much higher amounts after transfer of the plants from moderate light to darkness but became less abundant upon transfer to high light. These observations indicate that mature SppA is slowly converted to a truncated product, especially in low light or darkness. On the other hand, the steady-state fraction of mature SppA increases drastically at higher light intensities in parallel with the light induction of SppA gene expression.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis and spinach seedlings were grown for 3–4 weeks in a greenhouse at 25 °C under a 12-h light period with a moderate light regime (150 μE m−2s−1). To monitor the effect of light on RNA or protein levels, the plants were transferred to darkness or high intensity light (700 μE m−2 s−1) for periods of 0–52 h. Plants exposed to different light regimes were harvested and used for preparation of total cellular RNA and protein fractions. For heat shock treatment plants were transferred from 25 °C to 42 °C for 30 min and harvested immediately.  The Arabidopsis expressed sequence E8A10T7 (accession number AA042706), which displayed homology to prokaryotic SppA proteases, was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Ohio State University). A full-length SppA cDNA was isolated from an Arabidopsis cDNA library (CITATION) using radiolabeled E8A10T7 insert as a probe. Nucleotide sequences were determined by energy transfer fluorochrome dideoxy nucleotide chain termination (CITATION, CITATION) with the 377 system from Applied Biosystems or by fluorochrome primer labeling with the LI-COR 4200IR2 two-laser system (MWG-BIOTECH, Ebersberg, Germany). Sequence analysis was performed using the BLASTN and BLASTP programs on HUSAR Service. Protein localizations and transit peptide cleavage sites were predicted by PSORT (psort.nibb.ac.jp/), ChloroP (www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP/), and Predotar (www.inra.fr/Internet/Produits/Predotar) programs, respectively.  Isolation of total genomic DNA and RNA from Arabidopsis and Southern and Northern analysis were performed as described in Ref. CITATION. For Northern analysis 5 μg of total RNA were loaded per lane. Gel electrophoresis of proteins under denaturing conditions was performed according to Ref. CITATION. Immunodetection was performed using ECL and 125I-labeled protein A according to the manufacturer's recommendations (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech).  The C- and N-terminal segments of SppA cDNA were separately inserted into pQE-31 and pRSET5b vectors (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) and expressed in the E. coli strains M15 and BL21 (Qiagen and Promega) after induction with 1 mmisopropyl-1-thio-β-d-galactopyranosides. Soluble and membrane proteins of E. coli cells were fractionated according to Qiagen protocols. Fractions containing overexpressed protein were subjected to polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (CITATION). The component of interest was excised from the gel, and the gel slice was homogenized in 0.025 m Tris-HCl, pH 8.5, 0.9 mglycine, 0.1% SDS and used for antibody production in rabbits. Antisera were prepared according to Ref. CITATION.  Intact chloroplasts were isolated fromArabidopsis thaliana (var. Landsberg erecta) and spinach (var. Monatol), fractionated into stroma, thylakoid membranes, and lumenal proteins as described in Ref. CITATION. Etioplasts from spinach were isolated according to Ref. CITATION. Thylakoids were separated from stroma proteins after osmotic shock of chloroplasts (1 mg/ml of chlorophyll) with 10 volumes of 10 mmTricine, pH 8.0, and following centrifugation for 10 min at 5.000 × g. The membranes were washed in buffer containing 10 mm Tricine-HCl, pH 8.0, 0.1 m sucrose, 5 mm MgCl2 and used for the separation of lumenal and thylakoid membrane fractions as described in Ref. CITATION. The major thylakoid complexes were isolated after partial, controlled solubilization of thylakoid membranes by β-dodecyl-maltoside and separation in linear 0.1–1.0 m sucrose gradients (CITATION). Grana and stroma stacks were isolated from thylakoids after lysis with 0.2% digitonin as described in Ref. CITATION. To characterize protein topology, thylakoids (0.5 mg/ml of chlorophyll) were incubated with solutions of chaotropic salts (2 m NaBr, 2 mNaSCN) or alkaline solutions (0.1 mNa2CO3, 0.1 m NaOH) as described in Ref. CITATION. For protease protection assays thylakoids were resuspended in 10 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 8.0, 0.1 m sucrose at a concentration of 0.5 mg/ml chlorophyll, and aliquots were incubated with thermolysin (150 mg/ml), trypsin (10 mg/ml), or proteinase K (15 mg/ml) for 30 min at 20 °C. The reactions were stopped by the addition of protease inhibitors: 20 mm EDTA for thermolysin, 50 mg/ml of soybean trypsin inhibitors for trypsin, and 2 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride for proteinase K. In organello import experiments were performed according to Ref. CITATION. Thylakoid proteins were analyzed by SDS-PAGE.  SppA protease was separated from β-dodecyl-maltoside-solubilized thylakoid membrane fractions (0.2 mg of chlorophyll/run) by size exclusion chromatography on Superose 6 columns (3.2 × 30 cm; Pharmacia) pre-equilibrated with buffer containing 10 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 10 mmMgCl2, 20 mm KCl and 0.06% β-dodecyl-maltoside. The proteins were eluted at a flow rate of 0.3 ml/min, and 1-ml fractions were collected. The column was calibrated with Dextran Blue (2000 kDa), thyroglobulin (669 kDa), apoferritin (443 kDa), catalase (240 kDa), and bovine serum albumin (66 kDa). The fractions were analyzed in gelatin-containing (0.2%) gels (CITATION) under nondenaturing conditions in a Tris-borate system (45 mmTris, pH 8.5, 45 mm boric acid). After electrophoresis the gels were incubated for 3 h at 37 °C in 10 mmTris-HCl, pH 8.0, to activate proteases and then stained with 0.1% Coomassie Blue R-250, 40% ethanol, 10% acetic acid for 30 min followed by destaining in 40% ethanol, 10% acetic acid. The protease activity became visible as a white zone in a Coomassie Blue-stained background.  The library of BACs used was constructed at the Institut für Genbiologische Forschung Berlin GmbH (Instit für Genbiologische Forschung; Ref. CITATION). Individual recombinant BACs of this library are currently being ordered into contigs that at present represent more than 90% of the Arabidopsis genome. Additionally, representative DNA probes with known map positions were hybridized to BAC clones anchoring the available contigs on the genetic map of molecular markers. Taking advantage of these data (www.mpimp-golm.mpg.de/101/igf_bac_cont.html), sppA was mapped by hybridization to library filters of 9216 BAC clones spotted in duplicate in 3 × 3 arrays. The filters were obtained from the Resorcezentrum im Deutschen Humangenomprojekt, (Berlin, Germany; www.rzpd.de) and hybridized according to Legen et al.(CITATION). 
