!~ABS~! We have characterized a new gene, SWI1, involved in sister chromatid cohesion during both male and female meiosis inArabidopsis thaliana. A first allele, swi1.1, was obtained as a T-DNA tagged mutant and was described previously as abnormal exclusively in female meiosis. We have isolated a new allele,swi1.2, which is defective for both male and female meiosis. Inswi1.2 male meiosis, the classical steps of prophase were not observed, especially because homologs do not synapse. Chromatid arms and centromeres lost their cohesion in a stepwise manner before metaphase I, and 20 chromatids instead of five bivalents were seen at the metaphase plate, which was followed by an aberrant segregation. In contrast, swi1.2 female meiocytes performed a mitotic-like division instead of meiosis, indicating a distinct role for SWI1 or a different effect of the loss of SWI1 function in both processes. TheSWI1 gene was cloned; the putative SWI1 protein did not show strong similarity to any known protein. Plants transformed with a SWI1–GFP fusion indicated that SWI1 protein is present in meiocyte nuclei, before meiosis and at a very early stage of prophase. Thus, SWI1 appears to be a novel protein involved in chromatid cohesion establishment and in chromosome structure during meiosis, but with clear differences between male and female meiosis. 
!~RES~! To identify sterile mutants, ∼300 A. thaliana lines generated by chemical mutagenesis were screened. Seventeen lines were found to be altered in fertility, and among them, seven complementation groups of meiotic mutants were obtained. One of these lines showed complete sterility, with nonelongated siliques (fruits) containing no seed. The mutation was found to be sporophytically expressed, monogenic, and recessive because the phenotype segregation fits a 3:1 fertile/sterile plant ratio (321:121). A complementation test with the previously isolated swi1.1 T-DNA mutant was performed by crossing plants heterozygous for the swi1.2mutation with male fertile homozygous swi1.1. The F1progeny segregated with a 1:1 ratio (fertile/sterile, 90/78), indicating that this new mutant was allelic to swi1.1; it was therefore called swi1.2. The swi1.2 mutant did not show any developmental abnormality other than nonelongated siliques.  The previously described swi1.1 mutant was isolated from a T-DNA–mutagenized A. thaliana collection. Only one T-DNA has been integrated in swi1.1 mutant (CITATION). A 200-bp fragment flanking the left border of the T-DNA was isolated by inverse-PCR experiment. This fragment was then used to screen anA. thaliana genomic DNA library, and a 15-kb DNA fragment that spanned the insertion region was isolated. The 15-kb fragment was sequenced and found to be identical to a part of the chromosome 5 P1 clone MFG13 (accession no. AB025621 BA000015). A 5219-bpSalI/SpeI (equivalent to 4460 to 9679 bp of MFG13) DNA fragment was found to restore the wild-type phenotype when transformed into the swi1.1 and swi1.2 mutants (see Materials and Methods). This result confirmed the allelism betweenswi1.1 and swi1.2 mutants and identified theSWI1 gene.  The coding region composed of seven exons was defined using RT–PCR experiments (Fig. 1A). The 3′ and 5′ ends of the transcript were cloned using rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE). Three clones were obtained after 3′ RACE experiments, defining a 344-bp noncoding sequence after the stop codon. 5′ RACE experiments with primer 1 produced five clones, defining a transcription start 93 bp before a putative translation start site. The presence of a stop codon in this 5′ UTR suggested that the cDNA was full length. Interestingly, using primer 2 for 5′ RACE, we obtained seven clones, which indicated the position of a second transcription start in intron II, 15 bp 5′ of exon III. The exon patterns of the long (L; GenBankAF362001) and short (S; GenBank AF362002) SWI1 transcripts are shown in Figure 1. The two defined transcripts encode 578- and a 635-amino acid (aa) polypeptides, respectively, with a predicted molecular mass of 66 and 72.3 kD. A region of the SWI1 protein is predicted to form a coiled-coil (CITATION) from aa 407 to aa 441 (probability 1; for simplicity, the SWI1 L protein is taken as the reference). A potential nuclear localization signal, RKRK (aa 249), was found. Comparison of SWI1 protein with sequences in databases, using BLASTP with filters for areas of low complexity (CITATION), detected no strong similarity with any known proteins. Nevertheless, restrained similarities were found with diverse proteins including a limited similarity (19% identity on 152 aa, from aa 187 to aa 332) with a region of a SMC (structural maintenance of chromosomes) family protein. This region is highly conserved between human (chromosome-associated polypeptide, bamacam;CITATION), mouse (SMCD; CITATION), and Bos taurus (SMC3; CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] Southern blot experiments indicated that the T-DNA inserted inswi1.1 mutant was truncated at the right border (data not shown). A 2.5-kb DNA fragment flanking this border of the T-DNA was cloned by the technique of plasmid rescue. This 2.5-kb clone and the 200-bp I-PCR fragment described previously permitted us to define the insertion site. Insertion of the truncated T-DNA occurred 2 bp 3′ of the transcription start of the L transcript (Fig. 1A) and was accompanied by a 20-bp deletion of the genomic DNA (MFG13 8055 to 8036)  The 5219-bp SalI/SpeI swi1.2 genomic DNA fragment was sequenced. A single base substitution was detected, changing the aa 390 sense codon into a stop codon. Moreover, the mutation modified a HinfI restriction site, allowing us to define a CAPS (cleaved amplifiedpolymorphic sequence). Using primers flanking the mutation locus and the HinfI restriction site, we were able to differentiate swi1.2/+ from a +/+ genotype, which are both fertile (data not shown).  Expression of the two transcripts (L and S) was measured in buds of the two mutants and in wild type by RT–PCR, using primers designed at exon junctions to avoid amplification of genomic DNA contamination. The longer transcript was specifically amplified using primers 3 and 4, whereas primers 5 and 6 amplified both L and S transcripts. Unfortunately, it was not possible to design primers from the sequence specific to the S transcript. The long transcript and the sum of the two transcripts were detected in the swi1.2 mutant at a similar level to that of wild type (Fig. 1). Therefore, the presence of a stop codon in the middle of the transcript does not affect its transcription level. In the swi1.1 mutant, overexpression was found. This result was unexpected, because the mutation is recessive. The sequencing of a cDNA fragment amplified using primers 7 and 8 showed that this expression is the result of a transcriptional fusion between the uidA inverted open reading frame and theSWI1 gene. This fusion was not translated, however, because stop codons are present in the three reading frames before the correct SWI1 translation start. The only way that SWI1 can be synthesized inswi1.1 would be by reinitiation of translation, and this would be expected to produce only low level of the SWI1 protein.  In plants, meiosis does not directly produce gametes but spores. These spores then undergo haploid mitotic divisions (gametogenesis) to produce the gametophytes, which contain the gametes. Male meiosis and gametogenesis occur in anthers, producing the pollen grain (male gametophyte). The female organ, the pistil, contains ovules. Each mature ovule is composed of three parts: the embryo sac (the female gametophyte); the funicule, which attaches the ovule to the pistil; and the integuments, which progressively surround the developing embryo sac.  In a previous study (CITATION), the swi1.1 mutant was shown to be affected exclusively in female meiosis and the subsequent gametogenesis. In contrast, swi1.2 was found to be affected in both male and female sexual processes because no seed was produced after self-fertilization or after reciprocal crosses ofswi1.2 with wild-type plants. To define the cause of the male and female sterility in the swi1.2 mutant, we examined different developmental stages of anthers and ovules.  Figure 2A shows a wild-type anther containing tetrads of spores, the results of male meiosis. Inswi1.2 anthers, male meiocytes have an aberrant shape (Fig.2C) and subsequently degenerate. In mature wild-type anther, viable pollen grains were stained by the Alexander method (Fig. 2B; CITATION), whereas swi1.2 mature anthers contained no pollen grains (Fig. 2D).  [[FIGURE]] In the female tissues, a meiocyte differentiates in each wild-type ovule (Fig. 2E). Meiosis occurs synchronously with integument initiation (Fig. 2F). Immediately after meiosis, three out of the four spores degenerate (black arrowheads in Fig. 2F). The one remaining, the functional megaspore (white arrowhead in Fig. 2F,G), will proceed through gametogenesis and will generate the mature embryo sac (Fig. 2H).  In swi1.2 ovules, early development is similar to that of wild type, with synchronous meiocyte differentiation and integuments initiation. At a postmeiotic developmental stage, (defined by integument development) 25% of swi1.2 ovules contained an undivided cell and 75% showed a dyad instead of a tetrad (1562 ovules observed, white arrows in Fig. 2I). At a more advanced developmental stage, ovules contained one (20%), two (25%), or four/five cells of unequal size (55%; 648 ovules observed; arrows in Fig. 2K). At the end of ovule development, degenerated cells were observed instead of the embryo sac (Fig. 2L).  To investigate chromosome structure in the swi1.2 mutant, we prepared DAPI-stained spreads of male meiocytes (Fig.3). In wild type, the 10 chromosomes appeared as threads at leptotene (Fig. 3A), underwent synapsis at zygotene, and were fully synapsed at pachytene (Fig. 3B). The five resulting bivalents condensed (Fig. 3C, arrows show several chiasmata) and arranged at the metaphase plate (Fig. 3D). Bivalents segregated into their univalents at anaphase I, then the univalents arranged at the metaphase II plate (Fig. 3E) and segregated their chromatids to form four sets of five chromatids (Fig. 3F).  [[FIGURE]] The first detectable abnormality in swi1.2 mutant was the diffuse aspect of leptotene chromosomes (Fig. 3, cf. A with G). Chromosomes condensed but did not undergo leptotene, zygotene, and diakinesis stages. No signs of synapsis (zygotene or pachytene) or chiasmata were detected through >1000 cells observed at each stage shown in Figure 3G and 3H. The absence of synapsis led to the presence of 10 univalents instead of 5 bivalents at prometaphase (Fig. 3H). Then, chromatid arms and centromeres lost their cohesion in a stepwise manner before the end of metaphase I, leading first to X-formed univalents (Fig. 3I), indicating that their centromere were still attached, and second to 20 well-separated chromatids. Therefore, only chromatids were seen at metaphase I (Fig. 3J,K), which segregated randomly as shown in Figure 3L. This phenotype denotes a strong defect in sister chromatid cohesion. The timing of chromosome condensation seems to be affected in swi1.2: Chromosomes are still poorly condensed when chromatid cohesion is lost. Unfortunately, it is very difficult to effectively compare this timing, because no marker of prophase substages is available. However, low condensation nuclei are frequently observed, denoting a general delay in prophase.  To investigate how the segregation of the 20 chromatids occurred, we performed double staining to visualize both DNA and microtubules (Fig.4). In wild-type meiosis (Fig. 4A–F), microtubules surround the nucleus at diakinesis (Fig. 4A). The spindle is formed in prometaphase, and at anaphase I (Fig. 4B,C) microtubules pull homologs to opposite poles. The two anaphase II spindles (Fig.4D,E) allow sister chromatids separation, and finally, chromatids decondense (Fig. 4F). Figure 4G shows the 10 chromosomes of aswi1.2 prophase nucleus. At swi1.2 metaphase I/anaphase I, a large spindle surrounded the 20 separated chromatids (Fig. 4H,I). Chromatids were more or less well arranged on the metaphase plate, probably because of small variations in the timing of release of sister chromatid cohesion and spindle formation (cf. with Fig. 3J,K). A subsequent random chromatid segregation produced the unbalanced segregation shown in Figures 3L and 4J. The second division spindles were totally disorganized (Fig. 4K), leading to the formation of a variable number of nuclei, from 1 to 10, containing unequal amounts of chromatids (Fig. 4L).  [[FIGURE]] Male meiosis is completely normal in a swi1.1 mutant but is strongly affected in swi1.2. To understand this allelic effect of swi1 mutations on male meiosis, we constructedswi1.1/swi1.2 plants. These plants showed reduced pollen grain production (data not shown), which was an intermediate phenotype compared with the two homozygous mutants.  DAPI-stained spreads of male meiocytes revealed that 50% of them performed wild-type meiosis (Fig. 5A,B). The remaining meiocytes showed unusual division pattern. At diakinesis and metaphase I, ≤10 chromosomes could be observed (Fig. 5C–F). These figures are interpreted as being a patchwork of univalents and bivalents. This interpretation was confirmed by observations at early anaphase I. In Figure 5G, at least two segregating bivalents (arrowheads) and univalents could be seen. Anaphase I produces two sets of chromosomes composed of chromatids and univalents (Fig. 5H,I). Note that chromatids are indistinguishable from univalents, but the chromosome number in Figure 6I (17 instead of 20) denotes the presence of three univalents. Two examples of metaphase II are shown in Figure5J. The cell to the left in Figure 5J was the result of the separation of four bivalents and two univalents at anaphase I. Bivalents and univalents present at metaphase I separated respectively their homologs or their sister chromatids simultaneously at anaphase I. The four univalents (large arrows) coming from the separation of the four bivalents at anaphase I were able to form a metaphase II plate in each daughter cell (big arrows); two chromatids are unable to join the metaphase plate (small arrows). The cell to the right in Figure 5J could result from the separation of one bivalent and eight univalents because a univalent could be identified because of its alignment on the metaphase plate (large arrow), and eight chromatids are seen in each daughter cell. During the second division, the univalents separated into the two chromatids, but the single chromatids segregated randomly (Fig. 5K,L).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To summarize, in swi1.1/swi1.2 male meiocytes, a patchwork of bivalents and univalents was observed at metaphase I. Bivalents segregated their chromosomes at anaphase I and then their chromatids at anaphase II; whereas univalents segregated their chromatids equally at anaphase I, and these chromatids segregated randomly at anaphase II.  Nevertheless, in some cases, the first segregation was unbalanced as shown in Figure 5K. In the upper daughter cell, 11 chromatids, of which two form a univalent, can be counted. Two hypotheses could explain this unequal result. First, a univalent present at metaphase I may have migrated to one pole of the cell without separating its chromatids. Second, this univalent might have separated its chromatids precociously, as in the swi1.2 mutant, and these chromatids then segregated randomly to the same pole of the cell.  Female meiocytes were observed using propidium iodide staining and confocal laser scanning microscopy (Fig.6). In wild type, five bivalents were observed on the metaphase plate (Fig. 6A) and segregated into two sets of five univalents (Fig. 6B). Univalents separated their chromatids, resulting into four equilibrated cells (Fig. 6C).  At swi1.2 prometaphase, 10 univalents were observed (Fig. 6D). These univalents were always observed aligned on an well-organized metaphase plate (Fig. 6E). Meiocytes then performed an equilibrated division (Fig. 6F,G). In 12 daughter cells observed at the same stage, unequilibrated segregation was never seen. Despite the limitation of the resolution of this technique, each of them seems to contain 10 chromosomes. We concluded that this division is a mitotic-like division, but we cannot rule out that this segregation can sometimes be imperfectly equational (e.g., 11 and 9 chromosomes). These data are in agreement with the equilibrated dyads shown in Figure 2I and J. These daughter cells then entered interphase (upper cell in Fig. 6F) and performed a second division. Two different scenarios were then observed. Either the daughter cells proceeded to a complete, including S phase, second mitosis-like division (60% of 12 cells that can be clearly defined as one of the two classes): 10 univalents regrouped on a metaphase plate (Fig. 6G) and performed a perfect separation of sister chromatids, as it is clearly seen in Figure 6H and on the corresponding three-dimensional reconstructions. Alternatively, the daughter cell performed an aberrant second division (40%). Chromosomes did not unit on a clear metaphase plate (Fig. 6I), and segregation was unequal (Fig. 6J,K). It is possible that in this subset of cells, imperfectly equilibrated segregation could have occurred during the first division, leading to an aberrant second division. The result of these divisions was a variable number of daughter cells with variable size (Fig. 6L). The defects in male and female meiosis induced byswi1.2 mutation were therefore clearly different.  The cytological localization of SWI1 was determined using a green fluorescent protein (GFP)–tagged version of the protein. The construct, when introduced into swi1.1 mutant, restored the fertile phenotype. GFP staining was exclusively detected in female and male meiocyte nuclei, in fresh (Fig. 7A,B) or fixed tissues (Fig. 7C–F).  [[FIGURE]] Figure 7A and B shows an ovule and an anther at the developmental stage of meiosis (red color is the self-fluorescence of chlorophytic tissues). GFP was detected in the nuclei of meiocytes exclusively at this stage. Figure 7C–F shows isolated propidium iodide stained male meiocytes. The red color indicated the stained DNA, which includes genomic, plastidial, and mitochondrial DNA. SWI1–GFP protein was present in the nuclei of premeiotic meiocytes (Fig. 7C). These nuclei, distinguishable by the presence of diffuse chromatin and a central nucleolus, may correspond to meiotic G1, S, or G2phases. Later, in very early leptotene, the GFP staining colocalized with genomic DNA (Fig. 7D, see arrows), indicating that SW11 is a chromosomal-associated protein. Note that the GFP signal did not colocalize with cytoplasmic DNA. GFP staining was absent when chromosomes became individually distinguishable at leptotene (Fig.7E,F) and was undetectable later in meiosis. 
!~MM~!  swi1.2 was isolated from A. thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0) seed stocks that were mutagenized by EMS, essentially as described by CITATION. The swi1.2 line was backcrossed twice to the wild-type parent.  The left border was isolated using I-PCR (CITATION). Experiments were performed using Sau 3AI restriction enzyme and primers TAG4 (5′-GTACATTGCCGTAGATGAAAGAC T-3′) and TAG5 (5′-CTACAAATTGCCTTTTCTTATCGA-3′). The right border sequence was isolated by performing kanamycin rescue according to CITATION. A 5.4-kb PstI insert was cloned into pResc38; 2.5 kb of the cloned insert was found to be plant DNA.  An A. thaliana genomic DNA library carried by phage λGEM-11 (EEC-BRIDGE A. thaliana DNA Stock Center, Cologne; Dr. J. Mulligan, Stanford University, CA) was screened by hybridization using the I-PCR fragment as a probe.  Total RNA was prepared from wild type, swi1.1, andswi1.2 prebolting buds using MessageMaker Reagent assembly (Life Technology). Following DNase treatment, 12 μg of RNA for each sample was used for cDNA synthesis using Superscript II (Life Technology) according to manufacturer's protocol.  Amplification of the complete SWI1 L transcript was obtained by PCR experiment using primers 5′-GCGTCGA CAAAATGTTCGTGAAACGGAATCCG-3′ and 5′-CATGCC ATGGCAACGTTGAAGAGATTCTTGGGA-3′.  5′ and 3′ RACE experiments were performed using Life Technology systems. Primers specific for SWI1 used for 5′ RACE were an exon VI primer (5′-CCAAACACTGCATTCTTCTCCTT-3′) followed by an exon III primer (5′-TCTTCTGTAAAGCAAGTCTCCA -3′). The last primer was either primer 1 (5′-CGGCGATCTCT GAGGAAGAA-3′) or primer 2 (5′-CGAAAACAGGAAGAAG ACCA-3′). For 3′ RACE, specific primers used were an exon V primer (5′-TGCGTCAAAGAAGGAAGAGGA-3′) followed by a 3′ UTR primer (5′-AACTTACAAGCGAGCAGGTATTT-3′). RACE products were cloned into pGEM-T (Promega).  Expression analyses were performed by PCR on calibrated cDNAs. The calibration was performed to obtain equal signals using amplification with primers specific to the constitutive ROC gene, ROC1F (5′-ATGGCGTTCCCTAAGGTATACTTC GACATG-3′) and ROC1R (5′-TCCAGATGATGATCCAACC TTCTCGATGGC-3′; CITATION). Thirty cycles of PCR amplification, followed by Southern blot analyses, were performed. The L transcript was specifically amplified using primers 3 (5′-CGTCACCGACTTTGAATGTTGC-3′) and 4 (5′-GTTATCTCCTTTGCCTCTTGTT-3′). Primers 5 (5′-TAGAT GGTCTGTTGAGAGGTACAAACT-3′) and 6 (5′-GCAGAT CAGCGTAGATTTCCTTT-3′) amplified both L and S transcripts. The transcriptional fusion in swi1.1 was detected using primers 7 (5′-TCTTCTGTAAAGCAAGTCTCCA-3′) and 8 (5′-GCAGCGTAATGCTCTACACCACGCC-3′).  Twelve independent homozygous swi1.1 lines carrying theSalI/SpeI 5219-bp fragment were produced viaAgrobacterium-mediated transformation (CITATION) and showed restored fertility. This fragment also restored theswi1.2 phenotype: In contrast to swi1.1, homozygousswi1.2 plants are completely sterile and cannot be transformed. We transformed the fertile descendants ofswi1.2/+ plants with a segregation that is two thirdsswi1.2/+ and one third +/+. Using a CAPS marker, two independent transformed lines were shown to have theswi1.2/swi1.2 or swi1.2/+ genotype and were completely fertile. It is not possible to distinguish between these two genotypes because of the wild-type SWI1 gene introduced by the transformation. If the introduced fragment was not responsible for this fertility, these plants would have to be swi1.2/+, and the fertility/sterility character would segregate in self-fertilized plants with a 3:1 ratio. However, this ratio was respectively 117:2 and 55:0, which would only be the case if the introduced fragment restored the fertility in swi1.2/swi1.2 plants.  Using primers flanking the mutation locus (5′-TTTTCAGCA GATCAGCCGTAGA-3′ and 5′-AACAAGAGGCAAAGGAGA TAAC-3′) and HinfI restriction, the wild-type allele produces a 289-bp fragment, whereas the swi1.2 allele produces a 331-bp fragment.  Observation of developing ovule by DIC was performed as described by CITATION. Development of male meiocytes was observed by DIC as was described by CITATION. DAPI staining of male meiotic chromosomes was performed according to the techniques described by CITATION.  Anthers dissected from 0.3- to 0.4-mm buds were stained according to a protocol modified from CITATION and CITATION. To stabilize cytoskeleton, inflorescences were pretreated with 100 μM m-maleimidoenzoyl N-hydrosuccinimide ester, 0.05% (v/v) Triton X-100 in 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer (PPB; pH 8) 30 min under vacuum. Inflorescences were fixed for 1 h in PPB, 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde, 5 mM EGTA, 5% (v/v) DMSO and washed in buffer. After a first digestion in β-glucuronidase, anthers were dissected, squashed, and fixed on slide by freezing on dry ice. The released cells were immobilized with a thin layer of 1% gelatine (w/v), 1% agarose (w/v), 2.5% glucose and digested for 30 min at 37°C by β-glucuronidase in PPB, 7% (w/v) sucrose, and rinsed in PPB. Cells were subsequently incubated for 30 min with 1% triton X-100 (w/v) in PPB, rinsed in PPB, and incubated overnight at room temperature with 5% (v/v) rat anti-tubulin (MAS 077b, Harlan Sera-Lab, Loughborough, England), 0.02 M sodium phosphate buffer (pH 8), 0.3 M NaCl, 0.1% (w/v) sodium azide, 0.05% (v/v) Triton X-100, 4.5 mg/mL BSA. After eight rinses with 0.02 M sodium phosphate buffer pH 8, cells were treated for 5 h with 0.5% (v/v) FITC-labeled secondary antibody (labeled goat anti-rat IgG Alexa fluor 488, A-11006; Molecular Probes Europe BV) at 37°C. Cells were rinsed six times in PPB and stained for 2 h in 100 μM propidium iodide, 10 mM Tris (pH 8), 10 mM NaCl, 0.1% Nondidet P-40, 10 μg/mL RNase A; rinsed in the same buffer without propidium; and mounted in antifade (Prolong, Molecular Probes).  The cytological localization of SWI1 was determined using a GFP-tagged version of the protein. The 5219-bpSalI/SpeI was mutated by PCR to delete theSWI1 stop codon and to create a NcoI restriction site (5′-GCTCTAGATTTGCTATCGGAATC TGGGG-3′ and 5′-CATGCCATGGCAACGTTGAAGAGATT CTTGGGA-3′). The obtainedSalI/NcoI fragment was cloned in pCAMBIA 1302 (CAMBIA GPO) to produce the SWI1–GFP translational fusion. The construct was transferred in swi1.1 mutant, and nine independent lines showed restored fertility. Fresh anthers and ovules were mounted for direct observation. To isolate fixed meiocytes and to stain DNA, the tubulin immunolocalization method was used. Three independent SWI1–GFP transformants were analyzed.  Female meiotic chromosomes were observed by propidium iodide staining and confocal microscopy according to CITATION. The three-dimensional reconstruction shown in Figure 6E was obtained by treating forty-six 0.2-μM sections with the LEICA power three-dimensional program.  Microscopic observation of cells expressing GFP or stained for tubulin immunolocalization were performed using a LEICA TCS-NT confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica Microsystems) with a argon/krypton laser (Omnichrome). GFP or FITC fluorescence was collected through a FITC filters set (BP520/30) using the 488-nm laser beam. Low scan (220 lines/sec) images (1024 × 1024 pixels) were generated using a 63 × 1.32 NA PL APO objective. To collect simultaneously GFP/FITC and propidium iodide signals, a reflect short-pass filter (RSP 580) was used to separate the emission beam in two. 
