!~ABS~! There is increasing evidence that heterotrimeric G-proteins (G-proteins) are involved in many plant processes including phytohormone response, pathogen defence and stomatal control. In animal systems, each of the three G-protein subunits belong to large multigene families; however, few subunits have been isolated from plants. Here we report the cloning of a second plant G-protein γ-subunit (AGG2) from Arabidopsis thaliana. The predicted AGG2 protein sequence shows 48% identity to the first identified Arabidopsis Gγ-subunit, AGG1. Furthermore, AGG2 contains all of the conserved characteristics of γ-subunits including a small size (100 amino acids, 11.1 kDa), C-terminal CAAX box and a N-terminal α-helix region capable of forming a coiled-coil interaction with the β-subunit. A strong interaction between AGG2 and both the tobacco (TGB1) and Arabidopsis (AGB1) β-subunits was observed in vivo using the yeast two-hybrid system. The strong association between AGG2 and AGB1 was confirmed in vitro. Southern and Northern analyses showed that AGG2 is a single copy gene in Arabidopsis producing two transcripts that are present in all tissues tested. The isolation of a second γ-subunit from A. thaliana indicates that plant G-proteins, like their mammalian counterparts, may form different heterotrimer combinations that presumably regulate multiple signal transduction pathways.
!~RES~! Screening of the Arabidopsis seedling yeast two-hybrid library (CD4-22) CITATION using the tobacco heterotrimeric G-protein β-subunit (TGB1) as bait yielded the first plant G-protein γ-subunit (AGG1) and several genes that displayed no significant homology to any gene in the GenBank database CITATION. One of these clones (AGG2) contained an open reading frame (ORF) encoding 69 amino acids that displays approx. 50% amino acid identity to the predicted AGG1 peptide sequence. This ORF was out of frame with the Gal4 activation domain, but the coding frame may have been corrected during translation. Several studies have shown that the translation machinery of higher eucaryotes can overcome frameshifts with low to moderate efficiency CITATION. AGG2 was amplified by PCR and cloned into the pACT2 vector so that the AGG1-like ORF was in-frame with the Gal4 activation domain. Yeast two-hybrid assays using the new AGG2 vector and TGB1 as bait repeatedly showed strong β-galactosidase activity, confirming that the AGG2 coding frame was responsible for the interaction with the tobacco β-subunit (data not shown). No full-length AGG2 clones were isolated when the AGG2 cDNA was used to probe a cDNA library generated from Arabidopsis inflorescence mRNA (CD4–6) CITATION. A genomic clone (GenBank accession No. AF347078) containing the entire AGG2 coding region was isolated by probing an Arabidopsis genomic library (Stratagene). Using the genomic sequence, specific PCR primers were designed against regions within the 3′ untranslated region (UTR) and approx. 100 bp upstream from the putative ATG start codon. These primers were used to amplify the AGG2 cDNA by RT-PCR from whole plant total RNA (GenBank accession No. AF347077). Northern blot analysis of AGG2 confirmed that we had isolated a near full-length clone. The start of the transcription site was predicted from the genomic sequence 50 bp downstream from the putative TATA box within a CT rich region. The 5′UTR of AGG2 contains three short overlapping ORFs encoding four, seven and twelve amino acids. Many other G-protein subunits have similar small 5′ ORFs, including the Arabidopsis G-protein α- and β-subunits (GPα1 and AGB1) CITATION. It has been established that the presence of small ORFs in the 5′UTR are a form of translational regulatory control, whereby the translation of the large downstream ORF is reduced CITATION. The translation of some genes with small upstream ORFs, such as the yeast GCN4 and CPA1, is de-repressed under specific environmental conditions CITATION. Hence, the cellular abundance of AGG2, GPα1 and AGB1 may be fine-tuned at the translational level, possibly to ensure equimolar amounts of all three subunits. The deduced AGG2 amino acid sequence reveals a small 100 amino acid (11.1 kDa) protein containing several structural features conserved in all known G-protein γ-subunits CITATION including a prenyl group binding site (CAAX box) on its C-terminus. Computer algorithms designed to predict secondary structure identified a region on the AGG2 N-terminus (amino acids 16–57) as strongly favouring coiled-coil formation (predicted probability of 1), another characteristic of γ-subunits. Furthermore, the amino acid sequence of AGG2 shows 48% identity and 59% similarity to AGG1. These results strongly indicate that AGG2 is a plant heterotrimeric G-protein γ-subunit. Like AGG1, AGG2 displays significant homology to γ-subunits from mammals, Drosophila melanogaster, Caenorhabditis elegans and Lologo forbesi within the three conserved domains described by Ray et al. CITATION. AGG2 displays 23–37% overall amino acid identity with non-plant γ-subunits (CITATION ). Similar low overall homology is observed between many γ-subunits, particularly those from distant phylogenic organisms. The failure of the Arabidopsis sequencing consortium to detect AGG1 and AGG2 is a direct reflection of the low homology between Gγ-subunits from distantly related organisms CITATION. Phylogenic analysis based on the γ-subunit protein sequences reflected the evolutionary distance between their host organisms (data not shown). Almost identical results were reported in a similar analysis of G-protein β-subunits CITATION. AGG1 and AGG2 protein sequences show high homology in the three conserved domains of mammalian γ-subunits and in the regions that are predicted to form the coiled-coil domain (CITATION ). There is little homology observed within the first 20 amino acids, a region demonstrated to determine the specificity of interaction with the α-subunit in mammalian heterotrimeric G-proteins CITATION. A similar role for the N-termini of AGG1 and AGG2 has not yet been determined. Northern analysis revealed the presence of two AGG2 transcripts of approx. 0.7 and 1.1 kb in size. It is unlikely that the 0.7 kb transcript is a result of cross-hybridisation with AGG1 mRNA as the two Gγ-subunits display only 47% DNA identity with the differences spread over the entire length of the cDNAs. The two transcripts are most likely the result of alternative polyadenylation sites, possibly due to the absence of a clear consensus polyadenylation signal (AATAAA). The AGG2 transcript is expressed in all tissues examined although at different levels (CITATION ). Furthermore, the levels of each transcript differ between tissues tested. For example, very little expression of the larger (1.1 kb) transcript can be seen in the leaves, whereas young cauline leaves display relatively high levels of the lower (0.7 kb) transcript. Conversely, 4 week old roots display high levels of the larger transcript but relatively low amounts of the lower transcript. The relatively high level of AGG2 transcript in flower buds and low levels in rosette and mature cauline leaves is similar to AGG1 CITATION. However, AGG2 is expressed at its highest levels in 4 week old roots whereas AGG1 is at its lowest level in this tissue. The differences in expression pattern may reflect the different cellular requirements for AGG1 and AGG2 in the different tissues. The AGG2 gene spans over 2 kb and contains three introns of 721, 80 and 89 bp in the same relative locations as in AGG1 CITATION. A putative TATA box is located 319 bp upstream from the start codon with a putative start of transcription found 52 bp downstream from the TATA box. Southern analysis was performed using the full-length AGG2 cDNA as a probe on a blot containing Arabidopsis genomic DNA digested with BamHI, EcoRI, HindIII, XbaI and SacII (CITATION ). Under high stringency conditions, each lane revealed a single signal with the exception of the HindIII and SacII lanes in which two bands were observed. The Southern data match precisely the number of bands expected from the genomic restriction map indicating that AGG2 is a single copy gene. Re-probing under low stringency conditions did not reveal any new bands indicating that AGG2 has no closely related genes in Arabidopsis (data not shown). The interaction between AGG2 and the Arabidopsis Gβ-subunit AGB1 was tested in vitro. Recombinant GST and AGG2:GST fusion proteins were produced in Escherichia coli and immobilised on a Sepharose affinity matrix through the GST protein. The AGG2 fusion protein bound strongly to [35S]methionine labelled AGB1 while GST alone does not show any significant interaction (CITATION ). The strong in vitro interaction observed between AGG2 and AGB1 was supported by in vivo experiments using the yeast two-hybrid system. The AGG2 coding region was cloned into the pACT2 yeast expression vector, behind the GAL4 activation domain and co-transformed into yeast with either AGB1 or TGB1 bait constructs. Quantitative β-galactosidase activity assays of the transformed yeast revealed that both AGB1 and TGB1 interacted very strongly with AGG2 (CITATION ). Yeast containing AGG2 and AGB1 constructs displayed β-galactosidase activities 5 times higher than the positive control SV40 and p53 CITATION. The importance of the coiled-coil and remaining C-terminal domains of AGG2, AGB1 and TGB1 in Gβγ interaction was studied. For this purpose, both sections of each protein were cloned separately into yeast two-hybrid vectors. The deletion constructs were then co-transformed into yeast and their ability to interact with each other was quantitatively measured. As expected, removal of the relatively short N-terminus (coiled-coil domain) from both β-subunits abolished the interaction with the full-length AGG2 (CITATION, AGG2 (C) and (F)), its coiled-coil domain (CITATION, AGG2N (C) and (F)) and its C-terminus (CITATION, AGG2C (C) and (F)). This result is in agreement with several studies that found the β-subunit’s coiled-coil domain to be essential for association with Gγ CITATION. The coiled-coil domains of both Gβ-subunits did not show any interaction with the full-length AGG2 protein (CITATION, AGG2 (B) and (E)). This may be due to steric hindrance from the Gal4 DNA binding domain fused to the β-subunit’s N-termini, although the impediment does not prevent their interaction with the coiled-coil domain of AGG2 (CITATION, AGG2N (B) and (E)). These results demonstrate the significance of the coiled-coil structure in providing strength and stability to the βγ-dimer. However, the C-termini of both Gβ and Gγ are required for the strong interaction observed between AGG2 and both Gβs. Unlike AGG1 CITATION, no interaction was observed between the C-terminal domain of AGG2 and the full-length Gβ-subunits or either of their domains (CITATION. AGG2C (A–F)). The coiled-coil domains of AGG1 and AGG2 also differ in their interaction with the full-length Gβ-subunits and their N-termini. These differences in Gβ interaction between the N- and C-terminal domains of AGG1 and AGG2 may reflect slight differences in protein folding or Gβ association. The recent sequencing of the Arabidopsis genome has revealed only a single Gα- and Gβ-subunit (excluding AtXLG1 CITATION) CITATION. The discovery of a second γ-subunit in plants suggests that at least two heterotrimer complexes are able to form and presumably regulate different signal transduction pathways. G-Protein regulation of a diverse range of plant processes may be possible through the formation of different Gβγ-heterodimer combinations in different tissues and developmental stages. Further work is needed to confirm the formation of a functional heterotrimer and to identify the G-protein receptor and effector proteins.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis and tobacco G-protein β-subunits (AGB1 and TGB1) were cloned in-frame behind the Gal4 DNA binding domain of pAS-CYH2, then introduced into Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain Y190 CITATION. Y190 containing the TGB1 plasmid was re-transformed with the Arabidopsis yeast two-hybrid library CD4-22 obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC), Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA. Yeast harbouring TGB1 interacting proteins were identified by auxotrophic selection and β-galactosidase assays on colony filter lifts as described in the yeast protocols handbook (Clontech, CA, USA). Positive interactions were confirmed by re-transforming Y190 with the isolated library plasmid and either a negative control plasmid or the TGB1 plasmid constructs. Only the library clones that passed this secondary screening were sequenced. The Elongase enzyme mix (Life Technologies, MD, USA) was used in all PCR amplifications as it contains a proofreading function that reduces the chance of nucleotide misincorporation. Furthermore, all of the cloned PCR products were sequenced to ensure that no PCR errors were introduced and, in the case of the yeast two-hybrid vectors, to confirm the clone is in the correct coding frame. Total RNA and genomic DNA was isolated from Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia CITATION. From each tissue, 20 μg of total RNA was separated electrophoretically on a 1% agarose gel containing 2.2 M formaldehyde before being transferred to a nylon membrane (Hybond-N, Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Buckinghamshire, UK) by capillary action in 20×SSC. Genomic DNA (5 μg) was digested with BamHI, EcoRI, HindIII, XbaI or SacII, separated on a 0.8% agarose gel and transferred to a nylon membrane. Membranes were prehybridised for 1 h at 65°C in a solution containing 340 mM Na2HPO4, 160 mM NaH2PO4 and 5% SDS CITATION. Full-length AGG2 cDNA was used as a template in a labelling reaction using [α-32P]dCTP and the Gigaprime DNA labelling kit (Bresatec, Adelaide, Australia). Labelled AGG2 probe was added to the hybridisation solution to a final concentration of 1×106 cpm/ml. Hybridisation was performed overnight at 65°C. Membranes were washed in 2×SSC/0.1% SDS for 15 min at room temperature, in 2×SSC/0.1% SDS at 50°C for 15 min and then 0.2×SSC/0.1% SDS at 50°C for 10 min. Alternatively, low stringency hybridisations were performed at 42°C in 5×SSC, 30% formamide, 5×Denhardt’s solution, 0.5% SDS and 100 μg/ml denatured fragmented salmon sperm DNA and the last wash step was omitted. To confirm that equal quantities of RNA were present in each lane of the Northern blot, the membrane was stripped and re-probed with a wheat 25S ribosomal cDNA CITATION. An Arabidopsis cDNA library (CD4-6) CITATION obtained from the ABRC was screened by standard methods CITATION using the yeast two-hybrid AGG2 cDNA fragment as a probe. Positive phages were induced to undergo in vivo excision and were sequenced. A similar screen was performed using the λZapII Arabidopsis genomic library (Stratagene, CA, USA). Positive phages were tested for the presence of AGG2 sequence by PCR prior to in vivo excision. The in vitro binding procedure was based on the protocol of Rozenblatt-Rosen et al. CITATION with minor modifications. Briefly, recombinant glutathione S-transferase (GST) and an AGG2:GST fusion protein were immobilised on glutathionine Sepharose 4B affinity matrix. Arabidopsis G-protein β-subunit RNA was synthesised using a T7 polymerase transcription kit (Riboscribe, Epicentre Technologies, USA) and translated in the presence of [35S]methionine using a rabbit reticulocyte translation system (Promega, USA). Labelled product (8 μl) was added to glutathionine Sepharose 4B matrix containing 4 μg of either GST or AGG2:GST protein. After 2 h incubation at 4°C each matrix was washed twice with 1 ml of washing buffer (20 mM Tris pH 8, 0.2% Triton X-100, 2 mM EDTA, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride, 1 μg/ml leupeptin). Bound proteins were eluted by boiling in 2×SDS loading buffer and separated on a 12% SDS–PAGE gel. The resultant gel was fixed, dried and exposed to Kodak β-max X-ray film. The relative level of β-galactosidase activity in each transformed yeast culture was determined as described previously CITATION. Briefly, a 1 ml aliquot of yeast culture was centrifuged at 14 000×g for 2 min and the pellets resuspended in 200 μl Z-buffer CITATION without β-mercaptoethanol. The yeast cells were lysed by three freeze/thaw cycles prior to the addition of 500 μl of Z-buffer and 150 μl of 4 mg/ml o-nitrophenyl β-d-galactopyranoside (ONPG). The reaction was stopped by adding 400 μl of 1 M Na2CO3 when the solution began to turn yellow and the time (in minutes) was recorded. The solution was then cleared by a 10 min centrifugation at 14 000×g and the OD420 of the supernatant was measured. Assays were performed in duplicate using three independently transformed yeast cultures. The relative β-galactosidase activity was calculated as 1000×OD420/(time×OD600). DNA sequence analysis including BLAST searches, multiple sequence alignments and predicted translations were performed at the Australian National Genomic Information Service (ANGIS) website (http://bris1.angis.org.au). Coiled-coil structure prediction of AGG2, AGB1 and TGB1 was performed using the ANGIS Pepcoil program.
