!~ABS~! Plants have evolved a number of adaptive responses to cope with growth in conditions of limited phosphate (Pi) supply involving biochemical, metabolic, and developmental changes. We prepared an EMS-mutagenized M2 population of an Arabidopsis thaliana transgenic line harboring a reporter gene specifically responsive to Pi starvation (AtIPS1∷GUS), and screened for mutants altered in Pi starvation regulation. One of the mutants,phr1 ( ph osphate starvation r esponse 1), displayed reduced response of AtIPS1∷GUS to Pi starvation, and also had a broad range of Pi starvation responses impaired, including the responsiveness of various other Pi starvation-induced genes and metabolic responses, such as the increase in anthocyanin accumulation. PHR1 was positionally cloned and shown be related to the PHOSPHORUS STARVATION RESPONSE 1(PSR1) gene from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. A GFP∷PHR1 protein fusion was localized in the nucleus independently of Pi status, as is the case for PSR1. PHR1 is expressed in Pi sufficient conditions and, in contrast to PSR1, is only weakly responsive to Pi starvation. PHR1, PSR1, and other members of the protein family share a MYB domain and a predicted coiled–coil (CC) domain, defining a subtype within the MYB superfamily, the MYB–CC family. Therefore, PHR1 was found to bind as a dimer to an imperfect palindromic sequence. PHR1-binding sequences are present in the promoter of Pi starvation-responsive structural genes, indicating that this protein acts downstream in the Pi starvation signaling pathway. 
!~RES~! The AtIPS1 gene, like other members of theMt4/TPSI1 family, is specifically responsive to Pi starvation. A translational fusion between AtIPS1 and the coding region of the GUS gene also displays a specific response to Pi starvation in transgenic A. thaliana plants (CITATION); transgenic plants harboring this reporter gene are therefore suitable for identifying mutants with altered Pi starvation responses. M2 seedlings of an EMS-mutagenized population were screened by use of a nondestructive GUS staining assay (CITATION). Putative mutants were identified as follows: nine-day-old seedlings (∼25,000) grown in medium lacking Pi were stained with GUS for 6 h, during which time plates were examined every hour. Seedlings showing reduced GUS staining were selected as candidates for further analysis; 17 mutant candidates were selected, and M3 progeny was obtained from 15 of them. After preliminary phenotypic analysis (not shown), phr1-1, which was affected in the expression of several Pi starvation-inducible genes, and which did not accumulate anthocyanin during Pi starvation stress (see following section and Figs. 1 and 2, below), was selected for further analysis.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The fact that phr1-1 did not accumulate anthocyanin in response to Pi starvation suggested a simple screen for phr1alleles. After pre-screening 100,000 seedlings grown under Pi starvation conditions for colorless cotyledons, followed by the analysis of GUS activity, we identified a single additional mutant,phr1-2, with reduced GUS staining. Results of crossing experiments (not shown) indicated that both mutants were recessive and allelic. Prior to the phenotypic analysis (detailed in the next section), the phr1-1 allele was backcrossed four times with the wild-type transgenic reporter line.  In addition to the study of the expression of theAtIPS1∷GUS reporter gene, several metabolic and developmental traits influenced by Pi starvation, as well as the expression of six Pi starvation-responsive genes, were examined in thephr1-1 and phr1-2 mutant alleles (Figs. 1 and 2, below). The phr1 mutations resulted in reduced GUS activity driven by AtIPS1∷GUS in all parts of Pi starved plants (Fig.1A). In addition, Pi starvation-induced increases in anthocyanin accumulation and, to a lesser, although in a statistically significant extent (P < 0.02), in the root-to-shoot growth ratio, were impaired in the plants homozygous for either of the phr1 alleles (Fig. 1B,C). The effect ofphr1 mutations on these two traits was specific for Pi starvation stress, as no significant difference was observed between mutant alleles and wild type in anthocyanin accumulation or on the root/shoot growth ratio under nitrogen starvation conditions (Fig.1B,C). Moreover, the mutants showed increased anthocyanin synthesis in response to the stress-related hormones abscisic acid and jasmonic acid similar to wild-type plants (not shown). Both mutations resulted in a statistically significant decrease in the Pi content of the plant (P < 0.01) when plants were grown under Pi sufficient conditions, and in a decrease in plant growth under Pi starvation conditions (P < 0.01; Fig. 1B). In contrast, no effect of the mutations of PHR1 was observed for the Pi starvation-induced increases in root hair length and number (Fig. 1D).  The effect of the phr1 mutations on the expression of Pi starvation-induced genes was examined by use of Northern analysis. Six Pi starvation-induced genes were analyzed, including AtIPS1and At4, members of the Mt4/TPSI1 family (CITATION; CITATION); AtPT1,AtACP5, and RNS1, encoding a high-affinity Pi transporter, an acid phosphatase, and a RNase, respectively (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION); andAtIPS3, encoding a protein of unknown function (J.C. del Pozo, J. Iglesias, V. Rubio, A. Leyva, and J. Paz-Ares, unpubl.). The Pi starvation inducibility of all six genes examined was reduced in the plants homozygous for either phr1 allele, the effect being most pronounced on AtIPS1, At4, and RNS1 (Fig. 2).  The PHR1 gene was cloned by a map-based chromosome walking procedure on the basis of a cross between the phr1-1 mutant (Columbia ecotype) and the Landsberg wild-type ecotype. By use of 2100 F2 seedlings showing the phr1 phenotype, thePHR1 gene was mapped to chromosome 4 (between markers RPS2 and prha) by a series of simple sequence length polymorphism markers (SSLP;CITATION) and cleaved, amplified, polymorphic sequences (CAPS; CITATION) available in databases. The mapping was further refined by use of new SSLP markers generated from sequence information from the A. thaliana genome sequencing project (see Materials and Methods). As a result, the PHR1 locus was defined to a region of ∼120 kb between BACs F20O9 and F16A16 (Fig.3A). Within this region, candidate genes were considered that showed homology to yeast Pi starvation signaling genes (PHO80, PHO81, PHO85, PHO2, and PHO4) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) or to the recently defined PSR1 gene from the unicellular algae C. reinhardtii (CITATION). Only a single gene (AT4g28610; protein CAB81449.1) in this region showed homology to any of these genes (specifically, to the C. reinhardtii PSR1 gene). Transformation of the phr1-1mutant with a 5-kb genomic region, spanning the coding region plus sequences 2 kb upstream of the translation initiation codon and 1.3-kb sequences downstream of the termination codon, cloned in the binary vector pBIB (CITATION), rescued the wild-type phenotype in 12 of 19 transformants (Fig. 3B).  [[FIGURE]] To define experimentally the structure of the PHR1 gene, overlapping cDNA fragments were isolated following the Marathon RACE protocol (Clontech) by use of oligonucleotides derived from the gene sequence (gene AT4g28610, EMBL accession no. AL161573; see Materials and Methods). The cDNA sequence (Fig. 3C) showed that the predicted intron/exon structure in gene AT4g28610 is correct except for the sixth exon, which uses an AG acceptor site 39 nucleotides downstream of that predicted (position 1195 instead of 1156, in which the A of the start codon is defined as nucleotide 1). In addition, the first 91 nucleotides of the cDNA sequence shown in Figure3C correspond to a 5′ untranslated exon. Sequencing of the transcribed region of the two alleles revealed that each contained a point mutation. In the case of the phr1-1 allele, the mutation was a C-to-T transition at nucleotide 663 of the genomic sequence (in which the A of the predicted start codon is defined as nucleotide 1), which results in the replacement of Gln 192 with an ochre stop codon. Thephr1-2 mutation is a G-to-A transition at nucleotide 838, which results in the loss of a splice donor site in the third intron, and probably generates a truncated protein.  The presence of a single repeat MYB domain classifies PHR1, as well as PSR1, as members of the MYB superfamily of DNA-binding proteins. A singular characteristic of the PHR1 and PSR1 proteins is that they share a second motif predicted to adopt a coiled–coil conformation (using COILS at www.ch.embnet.org/software/COILS_form.html), which is a potential dimerization motif. Searches in the SPTREMBL or EMBL databanks allowed us to identify 18 proteins (15 in A. thaliana) containing both domains (Fig.4A). A phylogram of all of these proteins was constructed using the neighbor-joining method (CITATION) of the CLUSTAL program (CITATION). Two subgroups can be distinguished, with PHR1 and the C. reinhardtii PSR1 protein belonging to the same subgroup (I) (Fig. 4B).  [[FIGURE]] To test the sequence-specific DNA-binding properties of PHR1, we performed electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) with in vitro-translated PHR1 protein and DNA fragments from the 5′ region (upstream of the first ATG) of AtIPS1, a gene whose Pi starvation induction is severely impaired in phr1-1 andphr1-2 (Fig. 2). Five overlapping fragments encompassing 707 bp upstream of the first ATG were amplified and radiolabeled by PCR and incubated with the in vitro-translated PHR1 protein. A slower migrating band was observed when either of two overlapping fragments (a and b) were incubated with PHR1 (Fig. 5A). To confirm that the shifted band contained PHR1 and to examine which part of the PHR1 protein was responsible for the binding activity observed, several carboxy- or amino-terminally truncated derivatives were generated and subjected to binding and EMSA. As a probe, the 45-bp fragment representing the overlap between fragments a and b (extending from −612 to −568) was used. In all cases in which the retarded band was observed, the mobility shift correlated with the size of the truncated protein, confirming the presence of PHR1 in the protein–DNA complex (Fig 5B). At least 207 amino-terminal amino acids (Δ207Nt) close to the start of the MYB domain could be deleted without compromising DNA binding. In contrast, deletion of 78 amino acids in the carboxy-terminal region abolished DNA binding of the truncated protein. This deletion does not affect the MYB domain, but the second domain conserved between PHR1 and PSR1 from C. reinhardtii, in agreement with the idea that the coiled–coil domain of these proteins is also necessary for correct DNA binding.  [[FIGURE]] To further delimit the PHR1-binding site, DNA-binding assays and EMSAs were performed by use of three overlapping deletion derivatives of the 45-bp fragment (spanning positions; −612 to −593, −599 to −575, and −586 to −568), As a result, only one (−599 to −575) was bound by PHR1 (not shown). Scanning mutagenesis, consisting of consecutive 4-bp substitutions throughout this 25-bp fragment, was performed, and the substitution derivatives were subjected to binding and EMSA with PHR1 (not shown). As a result, a 10-bp sequence (Fig. 5C) was found to be sufficient for PHR1 binding. This sequence included an imperfectly palindromic sequence GCATATTC. Analysis of the effect of mutations on the 10-bp sequence further highlighted the relevance of the imperfect-palindromic sequence for binding by PHR1. Mutations in the sequence of the imperfect palindrome did not greatly affect binding by PHR1. The same was true for mutations in positions 2 and 7 (C and T, respectively), the positions that do not conform to the rules of a canonical palindromic sequence.  Given that mutations at PHR1 affected the activity of all Pi starvation-induced genes tested, we asked whether they contained the PHR1-binding sequence (GNATATNC, P1BS) in their promoter region. All Pi starvation-induced genes examined contained a P1BS-related sequence (Table 1). The P1BS present in theAtIPS3 gene is bound by PHR1 (Fig. 5D).  Sequences related to the PHR1-binding site found at the upstream region of phosphate starvation-responsive genes from several plant species  The imperfect-palindromic nature of the PHR1 binding sequence (P1BS) raised the possibility that PHR1 would bind its target as a dimer. To address this question, the strategy of CITATION was followed. The full-length and the ΔNt207 derivative were translated in vitro, alone or in combination, and the resulting products were tested in DNA binding and EMSA with P1BS. In addition to the band corresponding to the full-length or the deletion derivative, a band of intermediate mobility appeared when the cotranslation products were used (Fig. 5E). This intermediate mobility band corresponds to the mobility expected for a heterodimer, indicating that PHR1 recognizes its target as a dimer.  To evaluate whether control of PHR1 activity occurs pretranslationally, we examined transcript levels in plants grown under different conditions. As shown in Figure 6,PHR1 RNA is detected independently of the Pi status of the plant, but in contrast to PSR1 in C. reinhardtiicounterpart, is only moderately responsive to Pi starvation (twofold induction for PHR1 vs. 13-fold induction for PSR1;CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] A common mechanism to regulate nutrient starvation responses is to control the subcellular localization of a transcription factor (CITATION; CITATION). To test whether this could be the case for PHR1, we prepared a 35S∷GFP∷PHR1 chimeric gene in which the 35S promoter drives the expression of the coding region of the green fluorescence protein 5 (CITATION) fused to the full-size PHR1 ORF. The vectors containing the35S∷GFP∷PHR1 fusion gene or the 35S∷GFP gene alone were used to transform wild-type and phr1 mutant plants. Analysis of the phr1 plants transformed with the fusion protein showed that it could phenotypically complement the Pi starvation response defect, indicating that the GFP∷PHR1 fusion protein is functional (data not shown). Microscopic analysis showed that, whereas in the plants harboring the control GFPconstruct, fluorescence was distributed throughout the cell, in the plants harboring the GFP∷PHR1 construct, fluorescence was found in the nucleus, both in the wild-type and in the mutantphr1 grown under any Pi regimen. This is shown in Figure7 for the case of wild-type transformed plants, and indicates that the subcellular localization to the nucleus is independent of the Pi status. A similar Pi status-independent nuclear localization was found for the C. reinhardtii PSR1 protein (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All A. thaliana plants used in this study, including mutants and transgenic plants, were on the Columbia (Col-0) or the Landsberg erecta background. Plants were grown in complete medium (+P) as described by CITATION, using one-strength nutrient salts (CITATION). In the Pi deficient medium (−P), KH2PO4 was replaced by equimolar amounts of KCl2. In nitrogen deficient medium (−N), Ca(NO3)2 and KNO3 were replaced by equimolar amounts of CaCl2 and K2SO4, respectively. Growth chamber conditions were 22°C, 60% humidity, and a 16-h light/8-h dark photoperiod with 100 μE/m2 per sec of white light.   A. thaliana seeds (50,000) of a homozygous line harboring the phosphate starvation responsive AtIPS1∷GUS reporter gene (CITATION) were mutagenized with ethyl EMS by treating hydrated seeds (soaked overnight in distilled water) with 0.3% EMS for 13 h, then sowed directly onto soil in 56 pots. Seeds were harvested separately as M1 families. M2 seeds (450) from each M1 family were plated directly on low-phosphorus medium and, after 9 d, screened for GUS expression using a nondestructive assay (CITATION). Putative mutants showing impaired phosphate starvation response were recovered on fresh complete medium and transferred to soil. M3 seeds were retested for inheritance of the observed phenotype.  A search for phr1-1 alleles was performed by taking advantage of the colorless phenotype of phr1 plants grown under Pi starvation conditions. M2 seedlings (100,000) were grown under Pi starvation conditions for 12 d, and plants showing colorless cotyledons were subsequently subjected to analysis of GUS activity, and the one showing reduced GUS activity was selected. Prior to the phenotypic analysis, the phr1-1 allele was backcrossed four times with the wild-type transgenic reporter line.  Anthocyanin was extracted from rosettes of plants grown on complete medium (+P) for 5 d, then transferred to +P, −P, or −N medium for 7 d. Anthocyanin content was measured as described previously (CITATION). The method of CITATION was used to determine the cellular phosphorus content of seedlings grown on complete medium (+P) for 5 d, and then transferred to +P or −P medium for 7 d. Mean values were compared by use of a Student's t test.  Routine molecular work was performed as described previously, except where indicated (CITATION; CITATION). Genomic DNA was isolated as described by CITATION. A full-length cDNA of PHR1 was isolated by use of the Marathon RACE Kit as described by the manufacturer (Clontech), Expand High Fidelity polymerase (Boehringer), the AP1 primer (from the Marathon RACE Kit) and the PHR1 primers 5′-GATTCGTCTTCCTTGGTACCGGATTGCTTC-3′ and 5′-GGGATTGAAGAAGTGCGTGTGAGG-3′. These PCR fragments were cloned intoSmaI-digested pBluescript SK plasmids (Stratagene) and sequenced.   phr1-1 mutant plants were backcrossed four times to wild-type plants (Col-0 ecotype) to test the linkage of the different phenotypes observed to a single recessive mutation. For mapping purposes, phr1-1 plants (Col-0 ecotype) were crossed to wild-type plants of the Landsberg erecta ecotype (Ler). Twelve-day-old F2 seedlings that displayed the anthocyaninless phenotype under phosphorus starvation were isolated. DNA from these plants was prepared and used to analyze linkage of the phr1-1 mutation to previously described SSLP (CITATION) and CAPS (CITATION). PHR1 was mapped to chromosome 4 between RPS2 and prha CAPS markers. To identify the mutant gene, we generated molecular markers (Table 2).  New markers generated for positional cloning of PHR1 Two types of constructs were used to transform A. thalianaplants by use of the vacuum infiltration method (CITATION). One corresponded to the genomic DNA containing the PHR1 gene, which was used to complement the mutant phr1-1. The genomic fragment was obtained by PCR amplification from wild-type plants using as primers: 5′-CAACGAAGATTAC GAAGCTCGAAAGTACG-3′ (positions −2063 to −2035 relative to the start of translation) and 5′-CATCGAAGGCT GAGATACTGCTGGAGGTCGG-3′ (positions 2580 to 2550). The PCR fragment was digested with HindIII and cloned in the binary vector pBIB plasmid (CITATION), which confers hygromycin resistance in planta.  The second construct corresponded to a GFP∷PHR1translational fusion used to examine the subcellular localization of PHR1. To do this, a PHR1 fragment of 1327 bp was amplified by PCR using the PHR1 primers 5′-AAAAAAAGATCTATTC GTCTTCCTTGGTCCTGGATTGC-3′ and 5′- GAAGAACCT CAAGATAAGAGCTCG-3′. This fragment was digested withBglII and fused translationally to the 3′ end of theGFP ORF contained in the pAVA393 plasmid, which encodes GFP version 5 (CITATION). This construct and the pAVA393 (as a positive control) were used to transform both the wild type and the phr1 mutant.  GFP fluorescence was visualized by use of a Leica DM-R microscope (Leica Microsystem, Wetzlar GmBH, Germany). GFP excitation was performed with standard FITC filters. Images of roots were taken through FITC filters with an Apogee KX85 CCD camera (Apogee Instruments), splitting the emission signal into two channels, one for GFP emission (green channel) and one for autofluorescence (red channel, not shown). To visualize nuclei, roots were submerged in a DAPI solution (1 μg/mL DAPI in 100 mM phosphate buffer, 0.5% Triton X-100) for 1 h, and the nuclear-specific dye DAPI was visualized with light microscopy to certify the identity of nuclei (data not shown).  Full-length PHR1 and the PHR1 deletion derivatives were generated by in vitro translation (or cotranslation in the dimerization experiments) using the flexi-rabbit reticulocyte system (Promega) as described (CITATION). PCR and labeling of promoter fragments and oligonucleotides, DNA-binding reactions, and EMSA were performed as described (CITATION). The 45-bp promoter fragment of theAtIPS1 gene was obtained by PCR amplification using the following primers: 5′-CAATTTTGGTAACGCGCATATTCC-3′ and 5′-GAGAATT TTGGATCACCGATG-3′.  The deletion derivatives of the 45-bp promoter fragment were obtained by annealing and end filling by use of the Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase I and the following sets of two overlapping primers: AtIPS1AF, 5′-CAATTTTGGTAACGCG CATA-3′; AtIPS1AR, 5′-TATGCGCGTTACCAAAATTG-3′; AtIPS1BF, 5′-GCGCATATTCCATCGGATGA-3′; AtIPS1BR, 5′-TTGGATCATCCGATGGA-3′; AtIPS1CF, 5′-CGGATGAT CCAAAATTCTC-3′; AtIPS1CR, 5′-GAGAATTTTGGATCAT CCG-3′.  Mutant versions of the phosphate starvation response box were obtained by consecutive 4-bp substitutions or by point mutation of theAtIPS1B primers.  The promoter fragment of the AtIPS3 gene was obtained by end filling the following overlapping primers: AtIPS3F, 5′-CCAAATATGGGCTAAGACCAACG-3′; AtIPS3R, 5′-CACA TTTCATAAGAATGAATATGC-3′.  Databank searches (Swissprot, EMBL, and NCBI) were performed by use of the FASTA and BLAST programs (CITATION; CITATION). Alignment, tree construction by the neighbor-joining method, and its bootstrapping (1000 samples) were performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION).  The PHR1 cDNA sequence has been deposited in the EMBL databank under accession number AJ310799. 
