!~ABS~! At least three transport systems function in targeting nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins to the chloroplast thylakoid membrane. One of these systems requires a thylakoid pH gradient and is named the ΔpH-dependent protein transport system. A similar ΔpH export system of Escherichia coli contains four components, twin arginine translocation A (TatA), TatB, TatC, and TatE. TatC is a major component of the ΔpH-dependent protein transporter in E. coli and functions in the translocation of tightly folded proteins across membranes. We have isolated four transposon-inserted albino mutants named albino and pale green 2 (apg2) from Arabidopsis thaliana and showed that the transposons were inserted into different sites of a single gene. The APG2 gene product (named cpTatC) has sequence similarity with bacterial TatC and contains six putative transmembrane domains, including bacterial TatC proteins and a transit peptide in its N terminus. apg2 mutants showed albino phenotypes and could not grow in soil. The apg2 plastids were highly vacuolated, lacked internal membrane structures and lamellae of the thylakoid membrane, and contained many densely stained globule structures, like undifferentiated proplastids. Immunoblot analysis detected no thylakoid membrane proteins such as D1, light-harvesting complex, and OE23 in apg2 plastids, whereas soluble proteins such as rubisco large and small subunits were not decreased. These results indicate an essential role of cpTatC in chloroplast development, especially in thylakoid membrane formation.
!~RES~! To study the functions of nuclear genes involved in chloroplast development by a genetic approach, we constructed transposon (Ds)-inserted Arabidopsis mutants. We screened 2739 Ds-transposed lines carrying independent transposition events for mutants with the albino or pale green phenotype. We carried out detailed analyses of four albino mutants, line numbers 767, 1474, 1504, and 2415. TAIL-PCR analysis (CITATION) revealed that Ds was inserted into the same gene in all four lines (see below). When plated on agar medium, these mutants showed the albino phenotype (Fig. FIG-REFA). When sown on soil, they germinated but did not survive. To show that Ds insertion was responsible for the albino phenotype, we tried to isolate revertants from the albino phenotype to the wild-type phenotype. We monitored line 767 with a transposase gene driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (35S∷TPase) and found somatic reversions (Fig. FIG-REFB). Revertant seeds were obtained from the green sector (Fig. FIG-REFB). The progeny plants obtained from revertants contained green seedlings, which are germinal revertants. Total DNA samples isolated from wild-type (ecotype Nossen), hygromycin-resistant heterozygous apg2 plant, apg2 mutant, and revertants were digested with HindIII and then subjected to DNA gel blot analysis by using the full-length APG2 cDNA probe. Ds does not contain a HindIII site. A 7-kb HindIII fragment was detected in the wild-type allele of apg2. The albino plants were homozygous for the Ds insertion and completely lacked a 7-kb fragment, but revertans had a 7-kb fragment (data not shown). These data indicate the linkage of Ds to the apg2 mutation. No revertants were obtained from the other three lines, probably because Ds was inserted irregularly (see below). These results indicate that the four lines had defects at the same locus. Therefore, we named the alleles apg2–1 (for albino and pale green mutant 2; line 767), apg2–2 (line 2415), apg2–3 (line 1475), and apg2–4 (line 1504). Most of the apg2–4 mutant seeds did not germinate, probably because of a large deletion in the Ds insertion site (see below).  [[FIGURE]] To isolate APG2, we used TAIL-PCR to obtain Ds-flanking regions in apg2 mutants and determined their nucleotide sequences. The four albino mutants contained Ds insertions in the APG2 gene. We isolated cDNA from a cDNA library by using the TAIL-PCR fragment as a probe and predicted the exon/intron structure by comparison with the genomic sequence database (Fig. FIG-REFA). All Ds insertion sites were located in various exons of APG2 (Fig. FIG-REFA).  [[FIGURE]] We determined the sequences around the Ds insertion sites of the four mutant alleles and around the Ds excision sites of the revertants from apg2–1 (Fig. FIG-REFB). The apg2–1 allele had an 8-bp target site duplication (TSD) sequence in the insertion site; its revertant perfectly recovered the wild-type sequence. Ds was inserted irregularly in the other three alleles, which is why no revertants were obtained (Fig. FIG-REFB). Part of an inverted repeat sequence of Ds and a TSD of the 3′ side were deleted in apg2–2. Allele apg2–3 had a 6-bp imperfect TSD, and allele apg2–4 had a long deletion from the 3′ side of APG2. We carried out a DNA gel blot hybridization experiment by using the APG2 cDNA clone as a probe and showed that APG2 is a single-copy gene in the Arabidopsis genome (data not shown). When hybridization was carried out under low-stringency conditions, it revealed no additional bands, which indicates that there are no other sequences closely related to APG2 in Arabidopsis (data not shown). Moreover, polymorphism was not detected between ecotypes Columbia, Nossen, and Landsberg erecta when their total genomic DNA was digested with various restriction enzymes ( HindIII, KpnI, PstI, EcoRI, BglII, DraI, and XhoI) and DNA gel blot hybridization was carried out (data not shown). APG2 was mapped on a nuclear organizer region near marker rga at the end of the long arm of chromosome 2. The APG2 cDNA contained a putative ORF. Its sequence shows a 340-aa ORF encoding a putative 37-kDa protein (Fig. FIG-REFA). A homology search by using the blastx program revealed high homology to the tatC gene from E. coli (Fig. FIG-REFA). We named the APG2 product cpTatC (chloroplast TatC homologue). In a ΔpH-dependent protein transport system, cpTatC is thought to be a major component of the translocator complex, like TatC proteins in E. coli. The tmpred program (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/TMPRED_form.html) found transmembrane helices in amino acid sequences of cpTatC. The cpTatC protein is highly hydrophobic and probably contains six transmembrane helices, like E. coli TatC proteins (Fig. FIG-REFA).  [[FIGURE]] In comparison with the amino acid sequences of TatC proteins from various organisms, the Arabidopsis TatC protein has the highest sequence homology with that of cyanobacteria (Fig. FIG-REFB). The chlorop program (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP) predicted the cleavage site of the transit peptide to be position 28–29 in Arabidopsis . These observations suggest that cpTatC is a chloroplast-targeted protein. We analyzed morphological changes in plastids in the apg2 albino mutants by using electron microscopy (Fig. FIG-REF). We found abnormal plastids in albino tissue of the apg2–1 (Figs. FIG-REFB) and apg2–2 (data not shown) mutants. The mutant plastids had similar structures with similar size to those of undifferentiated wild-type proplastids, but the size of the mutant plastids was as that of the wild-type. They were highly vacuolated, lacked internal membrane structures, such as stromal and granal lamellae, and contained abnormal suborganelle structures. We detected a considerable number of densely stained globule structures, likely representing plastoglobuli (Figs. FIG-REFB). Thylakoids from chloroplasts of revertant tissue recovered the wild-type membrane structures (Fig. FIG-REFC). These results suggest an important role of the cpTatC in thylakoid membrane formation during plastid development.  [[FIGURE]] The N-terminal region of APG2 protein has typical structural features of transit peptides that are involved in chloroplast targeting. This structural feature of the APG2 suggests that the mature APG2 is localized in plastids. To analyze the role of its N-terminal region (28 aa) as a transit peptide, we constructed a chimeric gene, p35S∷APG2tp-sGFP, expressing a fusion protein of the N-terminal region of the APG2 (1–28 amino acids; Fig. FIG-REFA) and the sGFP (synthetic GFP gene of the jellyfish Aequorea victoria) coding region (CITATION). When the p35S∷APG2tp-sGFP chimeric gene was introduced into epidermal cells of N. tabacum SR1 by particle bombardment method (CITATION), GFP fluorescent signals were localized on chloroplast particles with the autofluorescence (Fig. FIG-REF A and B). When a chimeric gene without the transit peptide was used, GFP signals were dispersed in cytosol and nuclei (data not shown). Similar results were obtained with onion epidermal cells (data not shown). These results suggest that APG2 encode cpTatC protein targeted into chloroplasts.  [[FIGURE]] We examined whether apg2 mutants accumulated APG2 mRNA, which we detected in wild-type plants but not in apg2 mutants by RNA gel blot analysis (Fig. FIG-REFA). This result indicates that APG2 mRNA did not accumulate in the apg2 mutants. We then analyzed the expression pattern of APG2 mRNA in various organs (Fig. FIG-REFB). The APG2 gene was strongly expressed mainly in the leaves, which contain many actively functioning chloroplasts (Fig. FIG-REFB). The expression level of the APG2 gene did not differ between young and old rosette leaves (data not shown). These results suggest that APG2 is expressed not only in the early stages of plastid development but also in all stages of chloroplast biogenesis.  [[FIGURE]] We analyzed the expression of several chloroplast- and nuclear-encoded photosynthetic genes in both wild-type and apg2 plants. We used four nuclear genes and three chloroplast-encoded genes as probes. The nuclear genes were the small subunit of ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase (rbcS; ref. CITATION), the light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b-binding protein (cab; ref. CITATION), the N subunit of photosystem I (psaN; ref. CITATION), and the 23-kDa polypeptide of the oxygen-evolving complex of photosystem II (psbP; ref. CITATION). The chloroplast-encoded genes were the D1 protein of photosystem II (psbA; ref. CITATION), the large subunit of ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase (rbcL; ref. CITATION), and 16S rRNA (CITATION). Transcripts of these genes were detected at similar levels in both wild-type and apg2 plants (Fig. FIG-REFA). These results indicate that the accumulation of mRNA of photosynthetic genes is not affected in the apg2 mutants. Next, we examined the effect of the apg2 mutations on the accumulation of photosynthetic proteins. The amounts of chloroplast proteins related to photosynthesis were examined by immunoblot analysis (Fig. FIG-REF). These proteins were the thylakoid membrane proteins D1 (a product of the chloroplast psbA gene), LHC (a product of the nuclear cab gene), and OE23 (a product of the nuclear psbP gene), and the rubisco small subunit (a product of the nuclear rbcS gene) and large subunit (a product of the chloroplast rbcL gene), which are soluble stroma proteins. D1, LHC, and OE23 were detected in neither apg2–1 nor apg2–2 (Fig. FIG-REF). The lack of thylakoid proteins in the apg2 mutants may be because of the lack of thylakoid membranes in the mutant plastids. Soluble proteins in stroma were not affected in the apg2 mutants (Fig. FIG-REF). These findings suggest an important role of the cpTatC protein in the development of thylakoid membranes.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! We made crosses between a transgenic line expressing Activator (Ac) transposase (Nae Ac380–16) as the female parent and Ds-GUS-T-DNA lines (Ds2 389–13 and Ds4 391–20) as pollen parents (CITATION, CITATION). Selection of the transposed lines was described previously (CITATION, CITATION). The thermal asymmetric interlaced (TAIL)-PCR fragments were used as probes to screen an Arabidopsis cDNA library for a full-length cDNA that encodes APG2. The isolation of genomic DNA of ecotypes Columbia, Nossen, and Landsberg erecta and DNA gel blot hybridization were performed as described by Ito et al. (CITATION). The full-length APG2 cDNA fragment was used as a probe. The filter was washed twice with 0.1 × SSC/0.1% SDS at 65°C for 15 min (high-stringency condition) or at 42°C for 15 min (low-stringency condition). The samples were fixed in 3% glutaraldehyde, which was buffered with 20 mM sodium cacodylate (pH 7.0) for 6 h at 4°C and washed with the same buffer for 16 h at 4°C. Samples were postfixed with 2% osmium tetroxide in 20 mM cacodylate buffer (pH 7.0) for 6 h at 4°C. The fixed samples were dehydrated through a series of alcohol solutions and embedded in Spurr's resin (Taab, Berkshire, UK). Ultrathin sections were obtained by cutting with a diamond knife on an Ultracut UCT ultramicrotome (Leica, Vienna, Austria) and were transferred to Formvar-coated grids. The sections were stained with 1% uranyl acetate for 15 min at 37°C and then with lead citrate solution for 10 min at room temperature. After being washed with distilled water, the samples were observed through a JEM-2000 FXII electron microscope (JEOL). The putative transit peptide region from APG2 (28-aa N-terminal region described as Fig. FIG-REF A, arrow) was amplified by PCR and was cloned into the XbaI– BamHI sites of p35S-sGFP, consisting of a synthetic green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (CITATION). The resulting fusion construct was named p35S∷APG2tp-sGFP. The p35S∷APG2tp-sGFP and 35S∷sGFP constructs were introduced into leaves of Nicotiana tabacum SR1 and onion epidermal cells by particle bombardment, as described (CITATION). Cells expressing GFP were observed with a confocal laser-scanning microscope (LSM510, Zeiss). GFP signals were detected with a band-pass 505≈530-nm filter set (wavelength, 488-nm excitation), and chlorophyll autofluorescence was detected with a long-pass 560-nm filter set (wavelength, 543-nm excitation). Total RNA was isolated from 3- to 4-week-old Arabidopsis plants that had been grown on germination medium plates (CITATION, CITATION). Total RNA samples (20 μg) were denatured and fractionated by electrophoresis in a 1-M formaldehyde/1.25% agarose gel and then transferred to a nylon membrane (CITATION). RNA gel blots were hybridized to random-primed [32P] cDNA or genomic DNA probes. The probes were generated by PCR amplification of the large (GenBank/EMBL accession nos. U91966, 471-1247) and small (X13611, 791-1614) subunits of rubisco, psbA (X79898, 281-1045), psbP (X98108, 290-1537), psaN (U32176, 31–529), 16S rRNA (AP000423, 136147–137637), APG2 (AB054096, 1–1023), and the chlorophyll a/b-binding protein (X03909, 201–934) of Arabidopsis. After hybridization, the filters were washed twice with 0.1 × SSC/0.1% SDS at 65°C for 15 min and autoradiographed. To prepare soluble proteins for immunological detection of the rubisco large subunit and small subunit complex, leaves were homogenized in a microcentrifugal tube on ice in a solution containing 50 mM Tris⋅HCl (pH 7.5), 150 mM NaCl, 10% (vol/vol) glycerol, 1.4 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, and 1 mM DTT. Total proteins for immunological detection of thylakoid proteins D1, LHC, and OE23 were prepared as described previously (CITATION). Proteins were separated by SDS/PAGE (5% acrylamide stacking gel and 13% acrylamide separating gel), as described by Laemmli (CITATION). After electrophoresis, proteins were stained with Coomassie brilliant blue or transferred electrophoretically to polyvinylidene difluoride filters. For Western blotting, for the procedures of enhanced chemiluminescence (Amersham Pharmacia), the manufacturer's instructions were followed. Polyclonal antibody against the tobacco rubisco L/S complex was provided by F. Sato of Kyoto University and T. Nakano of RIKEN, polyclonal antibody against spinach chlorophyll a/b-binding protein was provided by T. Masuda and K. Takamiya of the Tokyo Institute of Technology, polyclonal antibody against spinach D1 protein was provided by M. Ikeuchi of Tokyo University, and polyclonal antibody against pea OE23 protein was provided by T. Endo of Nagoya University.
