!~ABS~! Wild-type Arabidopsis plants maintain a relatively constant size over a wide range of temperatures. Here we show that this homeostasis requires the BONZAI1 (BON1) gene becausebon1 null mutants make miniature fertile plants at 22°C but have wild-type appearance at 28°C. The expression of BON1 and a BON1-associated protein (BAP1) is modulated by temperature. Thus BON1 and BAP1 may have a direct role in regulating cell expansion and cell division at lower temperatures. BON1 contains a Ca2+-dependent phospholipid-binding domain and is associated with the plasma membrane. It belongs to the copine gene family, which is conserved from protozoa to humans. Our data suggest that this gene family may function in the pathway of membrane trafficking in response to external conditions. 
!~RES~! To obtain mutants that have a restricted temperature range for normal development, we screened for strains that were miniature at one temperature but not another. This screen uncovered a mutant,bon1, that exhibits a dwarf phenotype at 22°C (a normal growth temperature for wild type; Fig. 1A) but has a phenotype indistinguishable from that of the wild type at 28°C (Fig. 1B). This temperature dependent phenotype is not an allele-specific phenomenon because bon1-1 is a loss-of-function mutant (see below).  [[FIGURE]] At 22°C, the bon1-1 leaves are greatly reduced in size and have a curved morphology (Fig. 1C). The inflorescence stem is thinner and shorter than the wild type (Fig. 1D). Despite the smaller size of the leaves and stems at 22°C, bon1-1 plants nevertheless develop relatively normal flowers and siliques and are completely fertile. bon1-1 does not have a dramatic effect on the timing of the developmental process. It bolts and sets seeds only slightly earlier than the wild type. The bon1 phenotype is genetically distinct from that of previously identified hormonal dwarf mutants such as axr1, det2, or ctr1. The bon1-1defect cannot be rescued by the addition of hormones such as gibberellin or brassinosteroid or by mutations in hormonal signaling (data not shown). Moreover, the bon1-1 mutant is distinct from the cold-sensitive mutants deficient in the desaturation of the lipids in the membranes (CITATION) because bon1-1 does not have an altered lipid composition or altered composition of saturated fatty acids in the lipids (data not shown). These observations suggest that BON1 functions to maintain plant morphology through a novel mechanism.  Using scanning electron microscope (SEM), we measured the width and length of the epidermal cells of the inflorescence stems grown at 22°C (Table 1). The length of thebon1-1 cells is approximately seven times shorter than that of the wild type, which accounts for most of the eightfold reduction inbon1 stem length at the nonpermissive temperature. Abon1-1 cell is about two-thirds as wide as the wild-type cell. There are also half as many cells per epidermal circumference in abon1-1 mutant as there are in the wild type. Analysis of whole-stem cross sections revealed similar defects in the inner cells: There were fewer and smaller inner cells inside the stem. Reduction in the size of the pavement cells was observed by SEM on the leaf epidermis (data not shown). Taken together, these data suggest that the small size of bon1-1 at 22°C results from a reduction in both cell size and number. Because the number of cells on the outer surface is coordinated with the diameter of underlying cells, we cannot exclude the possibility that the bon1 effect on cell number is a consequence of its primary effect on cell size.  Cell size and number of stem epidermal cells in wild type and bon1-1 Temperature shift experiments were used to determine at what period of development BON1 function is required for growth. We found that when bon1-1 plants were shifted from 22°C to 28°C, the new stems and leaves that formed at 28°C had normal expansion and elongation when compared with the miniature stems and leaves formed when they were at 22°C. Conversely, after bon1-1 was shifted from 28°C to 22°C, the new leaves and stems that formed at 22°C had a miniature phenotype. Two examples are shown in Figure 1, E and F, in which the 3-week-old seedlings were shifted to another temperature for 10 d. These data show that BON1 is required continuously for normal growth of leaves and stems at 22°C.  The BON1 gene was cloned on the basis of the T-DNA insertion that results in the bon1 phenotype. The mutation, which segregated as a single recessive trait in the F2populations of a backcross to wild-type Columbia, was completely linked to the single T-DNA insertion in this mutant. We isolated a 6.5-kb wild-type genomic fragment flanking the T-DNA and a corresponding cDNA of this genomic fragment. Sequence alignment of the genomic fragment and the cDNA indicates that the BON1 gene is comprised of 16 exons and 15 introns (Fig. 2A). The T-DNA is inserted in the twelfth exon of the gene. The bon1-1 mutant defect was complemented either with the genomic fragment or a cDNA–GFP (green fluorescent protein) fusion, confirming the identity of the gene as BON1. Northern blot analysis showed that there was no wild-type RNA transcript of this gene in the mutant (data not shown), indicating that bon1-1 is a loss-of-function mutant. A second loss-of-function allele,bon1-2, (Fig. 2A) was subsequently isolated in the Wassilewskijas (WS) background. The WS bon1-2 allele appeared wild type at 22°C but had less elongated inflorescence stem at 16°C. When the WS bon1-2 was introgressed into Columbia background, it exhibited a phenotype similar to that ofbon1-1. It is miniature at 22°C but wild-type at 28°C. Genetic analysis indicates that WS has a dominant suppressor of thebon1 mutation that is responsible for the modified phenotype of bon1-2 in this background (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] The BON1 gene is predicted to encode a protein of 578 amino acids. The N-terminal portion of the protein consists of two calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding C2 domains (C2A and C2B) and the C-terminal portion exhibits weak similarity to the A domain of integrin (Fig. 2B). The BON1 protein shows extensive homology to the copine gene family. Members of this family have been found in paramecium, worm, mouse, and human and are thought to be calcium-dependent phospholipid binding proteins (CITATION). In each organism there is more than one member of the gene family in the genome. Arabidopsis thaliana BON1 has two paralogs we have named BON2and BON3. These paralogs are between 72% and 81% identical and 81% and 91% similar to each other at the amino acid level. These plant proteins are very similar to their human counterparts.Arabidopsis BON1 has 50% identity and 67% similarity to human copine I over the entire sequence.  Analysis of BON1 expression by Northern blots shows thatBON1 is expressed at low levels, consistent with its low representation among the population of expression sequence tags (ESTs). Organ-specific Northern blots show that expression of BON1 in the leaves and stems is higher than that in roots or flowers (see below), which could explain why leaves and stems are the most severely affected tissues in the bon1-1 mutant.  To further analyze the expression of BON1 at the tissue level, we made a translational fusion of BON1 with a beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene. GUS staining of theBON1–GUS transgenic plants shows that BON1 is more strongly expressed in growing tissues. It was expressed in younger leaves but not older ones (Fig. 3A,B).BON1 was also expressed in the inflorescence stems and was especially concentrated in the apical elongation portion of the stem (Fig. 3C). This expression pattern suggests a direct role ofBON1 in regulating cell division and expansion.  [[FIGURE]] The level of expression of BON1 RNA is regulated by temperature, especially during later development. We grew plants first at one temperature for one month and then moved half the population to another temperature for 12 h. The RNA level of BON1 increased approximately twofold when plants were shifted from 28°C to 22°C (Fig. 3D, lanes 1 and 2). A shift to lower temperature (16°C) gave about the same increase in the BON1 mRNA as the shift to 22°C. Conversely, there was a decrease in BON1 RNA level when plants were moved from 22°C to 28°C (Fig. 3D, lanes 3 and 4). In plants less than 2 wk old, BON1 had a relatively high expression level (as compared with older plants), and in these plants there was not much difference in the level of BON1 expression between those plants grown at 22°C and at 28°C.  The availability of the cloned BON1 gene, coupled with the mutant phenotype, provides an avenue to determine the biological function of a copine gene family member. BON1 contains two C2 domains at the N terminus. C2 domains are Ca2+-dependent phospholipid-binding domains that confer calcium and/or phospholipid modulation on the activity of the associated domain (CITATION). In view of these considerations, we examined whether BON1 protein possesses phospholipid-binding activity in vitro.  The binding assay utilized a tagged (6✕ His) BON1 protein that was expressed and purified from Escherichia coli. Purified recombinant BON1 protein was incubated with or without phospholipid and the mixture was pelleted by centrifugation. Phosphotidyl serine (PS) was used because C2 domains have been shown to bind to PS. The proteins associated with the lipids in the pellets were analyzed by electrophoresis on a gel. In the presence of lipid, three times more of BON1 protein was found in pellet (Fig.4A), suggesting that BON1 was precipitated by its association with lipid. Addition of calcium to the protein lipid mixture yielded approximately six times more BON1 protein in the pellet (Fig. 6A, below). This could be due to an enhanced lipid-binding activity of BON1 by calcium or an increased lipid aggregation by calcium, which leads to more protein precipitation.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As the association of BON1 with lipids in vitro and its sequence homology suggest a membrane localization, we tested whether BON1 is associated with membranes in vivo by determining the localization of BON1 using transgenic plants expressing a HA-tagged BON1 gene. This BON1-HA gene is functional because it was able to complement the bon1-1 mutant (data not shown). Total proteins were separated into microsomal fraction and soluble fraction by ultracentrifugation. BON1-HA was found mainly in the microsomal fraction, indicating its associates with membranes in the cell (Fig.4B). Several treatments were used to analyze this association. NaCl, urea, or carbonate (pH 11.5) did not alter the distribution of the protein significantly (Fig. 4B). These treatments are capable of stripping peripheral proteins from membranes. Reagents that dissolve membranes such as Triton X-100 and sarcosyl redistributed the protein to the soluble fraction (Fig. 4B). These observations suggest that BON1 is tightly bound to membranes even though the amino acid sequence of the protein does not predict any membrane-spanning domains. Although the association of BON1 with membranes was stable in the presence of EGTA (Fig. 4C), the addition of calcium ions partitioned all the BON1 protein to the membrane fraction (Fig. 4C). This indicates that calcium enhances the association of BON1 with membranes although it is not absolutely required.  To identify the membrane system with which BON1 is associated, we carried out cell fractionation to separate different endomembranes and the plasma membrane. BON1-HA was not detected in protein extracts from chloroplast, nuclei, or cell walls (data not shown) but was present in the microsomal fraction. The microsomal fraction of BON1-HA plants was separated on a 25% to 50% (w/v) sucrose gradient. The relative position of various membranes on the gradient was determined by assaying fractions for marker proteins specific to each membrane. The BON1-HA protein exhibited a distribution similar to that of the plasma membrane ATPase (Fig. 4D) but distinct from ER, vacuole, and Golgi.  The plasma membrane localization of BON1 indicated by cell fractionation was further supported by analysis in a transient expression system. A BON1–GFP fusion under a strong promoter was electroporated into Arabidopsis protoplasts and the expression of GFP was monitored 8 h later with confocal microscope. The GFP signal was mostly concentrated on the outer membrane of protoplasts (Fig. 4F), indicating a plasma-membrane localization.  One mechanism by which BON1 could stimulate cell expansion and division would be to enhance membrane trafficking by facilitating the association and fusion of vesicles with the membrane. We tested the ability of BON1 to enhance vesicle aggregation in vitro using an assay that measures the turbidity of a lipid solution. Aggregation of the lipid vesicles is accompanied by an increase in turbidity (monitored by the absorbance at 540 nm). Constructs encoding the full-length BON1 protein, the N-terminal 2C2 domain, and the C-terminal A domain each with 6✕ His tags were expressed in E. coli and the resulting His-tagged proteins were purified. These recombinant proteins were incubated with PS or phosphotidyl inositol (PI). A difference in turbidity was observed with PS but not PI. Both the full-length BON1 protein and the 2C2 domain increased the absorbance of PS solution (Fig. 5), indicative of an activity that promotes vesicle aggregation. By contrast, the A domain of the BON1 protein had no effect on the turbidity (Fig. 5). As has been observed previously (CITATION), the addition of calcium alone stimulates the aggregation of vesicles. The addition of calcium in the presence of either the 2C2 domain or the full-length BON1 enhanced the aggregation considerably over the background stimulation observed in the presence of calcium (Fig. 5).  [[FIGURE]] Our data indicates that BON1 may function to promote vesicle trafficking during cell expansion and division. It may do so via its interaction with other proteins; therefore, we looked for proteins that interact with BON1 using the yeast two-hybrid assay. We used the A domain (from Val 319 to Pro 578) as bait because it is the most likely segment of BON1 to be involved in protein–protein interactions (CITATION). A cDNA library made from the vegetative tissues of 3-week-old plants was screened for clones that signaled an interaction with this bait. Twenty-three positive clones rescued from the screen are the same gene, which we called the BON1 association protein 1 (BAP1).   BAP1 encodes a protein of 192 amino acids. The two-hybrid clone comprises the entire BAP1 except the first six amino acids. A BLAST search revealed that it has strong homology to another putativeArabidopsis protein in the database (we named this other protein BAL for BAP1-like). A SMART (Simple Modular ArchitectureResearch Tool) search indicated that the N-terminal part of BAP1 (∼120 amino acids) has sequence homology and structural analogy to the C2 domain. The C2 domain family is very divergent (CITATION), and the C2 domain of BAP1 is not significantly homologous to those of BON1 at the protein sequence level. The C-terminal 52 amino acids of BAP1 are 54% identical to those of BAL but do not show significant homology to any known motifs.   BAP1 is expressed ubiquitously throughout the roots, leaves, stems, and flowers, with expression in leaves and stems relatively higher than in other parts of the plant (Fig.6A). The expression of BAP1, like that of BON1, is modulated by temperature. There was an increase in BAP1 RNA when plants were shifted from a higher to lower temperature (Fig. 6B). Conversely, a higher temperature repressedBAP1 expression (Fig. 6B). Moreover, BAP1 expression is affected by BON1. In the bon1-1 mutant, there was more BAP1 transcript and the modulation of its expression by temperature was more pronounced than in wild type (Fig. 6B).  To identify whether BAP1 has a similar function to that ofBON1, we expressed the BAP1 gene under the CaMV 35S promoter and introduced the transgene into the bon1-1 mutant. We reasoned that if the two proteins were involved in the same event, then overexpression of BAP1 might suppress the mutant defects of the bon1 mutant. Of 18 transgenic lines analyzed, 9 showed suppression to varying degrees, ranging from good (1) to moderate (3) to weak (5) (Fig. 6C). Those plants that were partially suppressed had more elongated stems and more expanded leaves than the bon1mutant. Thus overexpression of BAP1 can suppress the defect inbon1, but the extent of suppression may be modified by the site of transgene integration or transgene silencing. 
!~MM~! Several mutant pools from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center were screened for leaf expansion mutants. Approximately 300 plants were grown per flat (26 cm ✕ 52 cm) for phenotypic screening. bon1-1 was isolated from the activation tagging lines in Col background (CITATION).  For scanning microscopy, plant material was fixed overnight at 4°C in 3% glutaraldehyde in 25 mM phosphated buffer (pH 7.0), dehydrated through ethanol serials, critical-point dried, gold sputter-coated, and examined with a scanning electron microscope. Images were taken and the cell dimensions were analyzed using NIH imaging program.  A 0.5-kb genomic fragment outside the left border of the T-DNA was rescued by using Universal GenomeWalker kit (Clontech). Sequence of this 0.5-kb fragment revealed its location on TAC clone K22G18. A 6.5-kb BamHI fragment containing the gene was subcloned from this TAC clone. Using the same 0.5-kb fragment, we isolated a cDNA from an Arabidopsis cDNA library CD4-14 obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center.  For complementation, a 6.5-kb BamHI genomic fragment ofBON1 was cloned into pCGN1548 (CITATION) and pCGN-NOS with 3′-NOS added in pCGN1548. For BON1–GFP fusion, full-length cDNA of this gene was cloned into a GFP expression vector (CITATION). For BON1–GUS fusion, a 5-kbBamHI/BglII fragment was cloned into PZP212 vector (CITATION). For BON1–HA fusion, a BamHI site was introduced by PCR method to the genomic BON1 gene to replace the stop codon. The 3 ✕ HA epitope was amplified and ligated into the BamHI site at the last codon of BON1 so that it is in frame with BON1. The BON1–HA fusion was then inserted into pCGN–NOS.  Standard molecular techniques were used (CITATION). Total RNA was prepared using Tri Reagent (Molecular Research Center).  Plasmids were introduced into agrobacterium strain ASE (CITATION) or GV3101 (CITATION) by electroporation, and transformed into wild-type Col-0, bon1-1/+ or bon1-1by the floral dip method (CITATION).  Plant material was prefixed on ice in 90% acetone for 15 min, rinsed in staining buffer without X-Gluc (cyclohexylammonium salt), infiltrated with staining solution [50 mM NaPO4 at pH 7.2, 0.5 mM K3Fe(CN)6, 0.5 mM K4Fe(CN)6, 2 mM X-Gluc)] under vacuum for 15 min, and incubated at 37°C overnight. Materials were then dehydrated in an ethanol series.  For total protein extraction, rosettes were homogenized in extraction buffer (12% sucrose, 100 mM Tris-HCl at pH 7.5, 1 mM EDTA, 2 mM DTT, and proteinase inhibitor cocktail from Calbiochem) with chilled mortar and pestle. The mixture was spun at 15,000 rpm in a microcentrifuge for 5 min to remove insoluble debris. To assay the effects of different reagents on the association of BON1 with membrane, supernatant was incubated for 1 h on ice with equal volume of buffer to make the final concentration of 0.5 M NaCl, 0.1 M Na2CO3, 2.5 M urea, 1% Triton X-100, and 1% sarcosyl, respectively. The soluble and pellet fractions were separated by centrifuging the supernatant at 100,000g for 1 h.  Proteins were run on 4%–20% Ready-gel (Bio Rad) and transferred to PVDF membrane (NEN Life Science Products). Membranes were blocked with 5% nonfat dry milk in PBT (phosphate-buffered saline with 0.1% Tween 20), incubated with primary and then secondary antibodies in 2% milk, and detected with ECL (Amershan Pharmacia Biotech). HA antibody was purchased from BAbCO.  The procedure was adapted from a method described previously (CITATION). Briefly, 3-week-old leaves grown in liquid medium of MS salt, 2% sucrose, and B5 vitamins were homogenized in extraction buffer (50 mM Tris at pH 8, 2 mM EDTA, 20% glycerol, 1 mM DTT, and the proteinase inhibitor cocktail). Homogenate was filtered through Miracloth (Calbiochem) and centrifuged at 5000g for 5 min to remove organelles and debris. Supernatants were centrifuged at 100,000g for 1 h to pellet microsomal membranes. Membrane pellets were resuspended in buffer (25 mM Tris at pH 7.5, 10% sucrose, 2 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, and proteinase inhibitors) at 0.625 mL/10 g starting material. Microsomes (0.5 mL) were then layered onto a 15 mL sucrose gradient of 25%–50% and centrifuged at 100,000g for 16 h. Then 1-mL fractions were collected and analyzed. Fractions containing ER, vacuole, and PM were identified by Western blot using marker enzymes. Fractions containing Golgi were identified by enyzmatic analysis of Triton-stimulated UDPase.  Leaf mesophyll protoplasts were isolated from 3-week-oldArabidopsis and were transfected by a modified polyethylene glycol method as described previously (CITATION). Ten thousand protoplasts were transfected with 10 μg of DNA and then incubated for 9 h at 23°C before subcelluar localization was determined with a confocal microscope. Confocal laser scanning micrographs of transfected protoplasts were recorded using a Leica microscope (Leica Microsystems) equipped with a laser scanning unit (TCS NT).  Full-length 2C2 domain (M1 to G308) and A domain (V319 to P578) were amplified from BON1 cDNA and cloned into a vector pKS11 (under T7 promoter, with 6 ✕ His tags at the N terminus). The constructs were transformed into BL21plyS (Novagen). Protein was induced with 1 mM IPTG for 10 h at 25°C. Proteins were purified with Ni-NTA agarose beads (QIAGEN) according to instructions.  DNA was prepared from the Arabidopsis thaliana MATCHMAKER cDNA library in E. coli (Clontech). The library complexity was 3 ✕ 106. DNA was transformed into yeast strain PJ69-4α (CITATION) and 2.5 ✕ 107 yeast transformants were pooled as the library. The bait (A domain of BON1) was cloned between RI and BamHI sites of pGBD-C2 and transformed into PJ49-4a. The library α cells were mated with the bait a cells. A screening protocol (CITATION) was followed. Diploid cells (∼108) were plated onto SC Ade− and His− medium supplemented with 40 mM of 3-AT. About 80 clones retested positively were chosen for plasmid rescue. 
