!~ABS~! In Arabidopsis, monogalactosyldiacylglycerol (MGDG) is synthesized by a multigenic family of MGDG synthases consisting of two types of enzymes differing in their N-terminal portion: type A (atMGD1) and type B (atMGD2 and atMGD3). The present paper compares type B isoforms with the enzymes of type A that are known to sit in the inner membrane of plastid envelope. The occurrence of types A and B in 16:3 and 18:3 plants shows that both types are not specialized isoforms for the prokaryotic and eukaryotic glycerolipid biosynthetic pathways. Type A atMGD1 gene is abundantly expressed in green tissues and along plant development and encodes the most active enzyme. Its mature polypeptide is immunodetected in the envelope of chloroplasts from Arabidopsis leaves after cleavage of its transit peptide. atMGD1 is therefore likely devoted to the massive production of MGDG required to expand the inner envelope membrane and build up the thylakoids network. Transient expression of green fluorescent protein fusions in Arabidopsis leaves and in vitro import experiments show that type B precursors are targeted to plastids, owing to a different mechanism. Noncanonical addressing peptides, whose processing could not be assessed, are involved in the targeting of type B precursors, possibly to the outer envelope membrane where they might contribute to membrane expansion. Expression of type B enzymes was higher in nongreen tissues, i.e., in inflorescence (atMGD2) and roots (atMGD3), where they conceivably influence the eukaryotic structure prominence in MGDG. In addition, their expression of type B enzymes is enhanced under phosphate deprivation.
!~RES~! Both atMGD1 and atMGD3 sequences were identified from Arabidopsis genome sequencing programs, in chromosomes IV and II, respectively. In addition, we screened Arabidopsis cDNA and genomic libraries and identified a third gene, atMGD2, held by chromosome V. Unexpectedly long 5′ untranslated regions (UTRs) were detected by primer extension analyzes of atMGD1 and atMGD2, respectively, at the level of uridine-442 and guanosine-316 upstream to the start codon, whereas the atMGD3 5′ end was mapped at the level of adenosine-74 (Fig. 7, which is published as supporting information). The positional organization of the eight exons from atMGD1 and atMGD3 (I-VIII, see Fig. 5) are similar. Interestingly, atMGD2 lacks two introns (see Fig. 5A), suggesting that the ancestral sequences for atMGD1 and atMGD3 originated from an early divergence marked by a deep modification of the N-terminal region and that atMGD2 likely originated from the duplication of an atMGD3 ancestral sequence (Fig. 5B). We inserted the cDNA fragments corresponding to the mature form of atMGD1 (46.87 kDa), i.e., truncated from its 105-aa chloroplastic transit peptide, and the full-length atMGD2 (52.73 kDa) and atMGD3 (52.86 kDa) into the pET-Y3a expression vector. Fig. 6A shows that the E. coli extracts expressing the atMGD cDNAs exhibit a galactosylation activity when provided with sn-1,2-dioleoylglycerol. We checked that the reaction product was MGDG by two-dimensional TLC as described (CITATION) (not shown). Enzymological comparisons require a purification of the properly folded enzymes. In addition, MGDG synthases must be extracted from the bacterial lipids to monitor the supply of DAG. Recombinant E. coli membranes were therefore solubilized by 6 mM CHAPS, under conditions defined (CITATION). The specific activity increased after solubilization by the detergent: the enrichment factor for atMGD1 was 48, whereas it was more than 10 times lower for atMGD2 and atMGD3, respectively, 1.56 and 3.85. Solubilized fractions were subsequently chromatographed on a hydroxyapatite column under experimental conditions used for the purification of the spinach chloroplast envelope activity (CITATION, CITATION). Most of the activity loaded on the column was recovered in a sharp peak eluted at 275 mM phosphate (Fig. 6B, peak III) with a yield of 45.2%, 13.1%, and 19.5% for atMGD1, atMGD2 and atMGD3, respectively and was used for enzymological comparisons. The two DAG molecular species used to compare the specificity of the three MGDG synthases, i.e., sn-1-oleoyl,2-palmitoyl-glycerol (18:1/16:0) and sn-1,2-dilinoleoyl-glycerol (18:2/18:2), were chosen as physiologically relevant prokaryotic and eukaryotic molecular species. Using the surface dilution model (CITATION), double reciprocal plots drawn for each DAG molecular species were linear (Fig. 6C) and used to calculate kinetic constants (Fig. 6D). The three enzymes are capable of synthesizing both prokaryotic and eukaryotic MGDG. Type B enzymes exhibit a higher affinity for eukaryotic DAG (18:2/18:2), possibly generated from extraplastidial glycerolipids, than for the molecular species abundantly produced inside the plastids (18:1/16:0). By contrast, the purified recombinant atMGD1 does not select the given substrates (Fig. 6D). Considering Vmax and KM values of the purified recombinant proteins, atMGD1 was the most active. Vmax value is about five times higher than the values calculated for purified atMGD2 and atMGD3. In addition, atMGD1 used its substrates with the highest affinity: Km values were about 0.0141 mol fraction for all substrates and were therefore lower than the best Km values measured with 18:2/18:2 for atMGD2 and atMGD3 (Fig. 6D). The enzymatic properties of the three isoforms may reflect a functional specialization to the DAG molecular species available in the membrane(s) where the enzymes sit (CITATION). Because atMGD2 and atMGD3 did not exhibit any canonical chloroplastic transit peptide (CITATION), we first investigated whether the full-length polypeptides contained functional addressing signals. Fig. FIG-REF shows the green fluorescence emitted by GFP-fusion proteins transiently expressed in cells of Arabidopsis leaves observed by a confocal microscope. Chloroplasts were visualized by chlorophyll autofluorescence and appear in red at the periphery of cells. Without any fusion, GFP was localized randomly in the cytosol (Fig. FIG-REF, 35S GFP), whereas the N-terminal fusion to the transit peptide of the rubisco small subunit 1A led to an accumulated fluorescence in chloroplasts (data not shown). The full-length atMGD1 fused to the GFP is addressed to the chloroplast (Fig. FIG-REF, MGD1 GFP), as expected from the presence of a ≈100-aa N-terminal region similar to the cleaved chloroplastic transit peptide of csMGD1 and soMGD1 (CITATION, CITATION). Likewise, the transient expression of both atMGD2-GFP and atMGD3-GFP chimeric cDNAs led to an accumulated green fluorescence in chloroplasts (Fig. FIG-REF, MGD2 GFP and MGD3 GFP, respectively). Together, these results indicate that the primary sequences of all three MGDG synthase precursors are sufficient to be addressed to plastids.  [[FIGURE]] In addition, when incubated with chloroplasts isolated from pea leaves, radiolabeled precursors from atMGD1, atMGD2, and atMGD3 bound to chloroplasts (Fig. 8, which is published as supporting information). The atMGD1 precursor was processed into a polypeptide of 45 kDa and was subsequently protected from proteolytic treatment with thermolysin. For atMGD2 and atMGD3, the precursor binding to chloroplasts was strong, and we could not detect any cleavage product. After thermolysin treatment, when the full-length precursor of atMGD1 was completely hydrolyzed, a slight part of the atMGD2- and atMGD3-labeled proteins was found resistant to proteolysis (Fig. 8). These results indicated that precursors of atMGD2 and atMGD3 were imported into chloroplasts, confirming GFP-fusion experiments. To localize the various MGDG synthases in cell subfractions, we prepared antibodies against each isoform. Fig. FIG-REF A and B shows Western blot analyses made to estimate the cross-reactivity of the polyclonal antibodies. Very surprisingly, although the three proteins are very similar, polyclonal antibodies proved to be specific of the MGDG synthase against which it was produced (Fig. FIG-REFB), suggesting that immunogenic epitopes occurred mostly in nonconserved regions. Western blot analyzes carried out on total protein extract of different tissues of Arabidopsis did not allow any detection of MGDG synthases (data not shown). We sought whether any MGDG synthase could be detected in chloroplast envelope membranes purified from Arabidopsis and developed to that purpose, a procedure yielding 200 μg of purified chloroplast envelope membrane proteins by using 300 g of fresh Arabidopsis leaves (see Materials and Methods). Fig. FIG-REF C and D shows a Western blot analysis of the polypeptides of Arabidopsis chloroplast envelope (E), stroma (S), and thylakoids (T). Accuracy of the subcellular fractionation was assessed by detection of E37, a marker for the inner envelope membrane (Fig. FIG-REFD). A polypeptide whose apparent molecular mass corresponds to the predicted mature atMGD1 (45 kDa) was detected in the envelope (Fig. FIG-REFD). By contrast, Fig. FIG-REFD does not show any immunodetection of atMGD2 or atMGD3. These results show that atMGD1 occurs abundantly in the envelope from leaf chloroplasts whereas atMGD2 and atMGD3 are either very minor or completely absent in this tissue.  [[FIGURE]] We analyzed the mRNA expression levels of the three genes in major organs from Arabidopsis adult plants. Nonsaturated conditions for RT-PCR were set to achieve quantitative assays. As shown in Fig. FIG-REFA, atMGD1 transcripts were dominantly detected in all organs examined, with little variations besides a lesser expression in siliques and a bare detection in seeds. By contrast, atMGD2 and atMGD3 expression levels were lower and detected especially in floral buds and roots, respectively. Distinct expression patterns were noticed along Arabidopsis seedling development (Fig. FIG-REFA Right). On one hand, atMGD1 expression was detected dominantly throughout whole developmental stages, whereas expression of atMGD2 was low and continuous. On the other hand, mRNA expression of atMGD3 was most abundant in early stages, being quantitatively equal to that of atMGD1. Interestingly, under conditions of lowest expression of atMGD1, i.e., in roots and 5-day plants (Fig. FIG-REFA), the level of expression of type A (atMGD1) is rather almost equal to that of type B (atMGD2 + atMGD3).  [[FIGURE]] Recently, Härtel et al. (CITATION) described the accumulation of DGDG in extrachloroplast membranes in response to phosphate deprivation. Assuming that DGDG synthesis by this pathway requires MGDG synthesis, we compared expression of each MGD gene in plants grown under various phosphate concentrations (Fig. FIG-REFB). We observed that atMGD1 expression remained almost constant, whereas expression of atMGD2 and atMGD3 increased under phosphate deprivation. These results indicate that type B enzymes could be devoted to a MGDG synthesis during phosphate deprivation and feed the DGDG synthesis presumed to replace missing phospholipids in extrachloroplast membranes. The data collected in this study suggest that in Arabidopsis both type A and B enzymes can monitor MGDG synthesis from DAG originated either from the prokaryotic or eukaryotic pathways, being partially influential on the MGDG molecular species produced. We wondered whether the existence of type B was unique to Arabidopsis, especially if this type was also found in C18:3 plants. A basic blast screening (BLOSUM 62 matrix) of the GenBank expressed sequence tag (EST) database dbEST (CITATION), using atMGD2 as a probe, shows that members of type B MGDG synthases exist in numerous plant species. Fig. FIG-REFA shows a multalin local alignment of 122-aa portions of the presently cloned full-length MGDG synthase sequences with screened ESTs. The corresponding phenogram (Fig. FIG-REFB) shows that the identified type A and B enzymes cluster in two distinct groups. Assuming that conserved amino acids in type A MGDG synthases, which are not conserved in type B, are signatures of type A (highlighted in black in Fig. FIG-REFA), this analysis shows an occurrence of type A in soybean, tomato, and barley. Vice versa, type B-specific amino acids (highlighted in gray in Fig. FIG-REFA) appear in soybean and lotus. Soybean is an example of a C18:3 plant harboring both types of MGDG synthases. Therefore, occurrence of both types A and B does not correlate with the classification according to the glycerolipid metabolism, i.e., coexistence of both prokaryotic and eukaryotic pathways in C16:3 plants and loss of the prokaryotic pathway in C18:3 plants. Fig. FIG-REFC shows the compiled results of local alignments of MGDG synthase ESTs exhibiting signatures of types A and B. Having found ESTs for MGDG synthases of types A and B in corn, the origin of both types precedes at least the monocotyledon divergence.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! A 1,647-bp fragment corresponding to the mature region of the cucumber MGDG synthase cDNA (CITATION) was used as a probe to screen an Arabidopsis (Columbia) cDNA library constructed in λTI1 vector (CITATION). Plaques grown on Escherichia coli LE392 were transferred to NYTRAN-N membranes (Schleicher & Schuell). Hybridization was carried out for 16 h at 55°C in 6× SSC (0.15 M NaCl and 15 mM sodium citrate), 5× Denhardt's solution, 0.1% (wt/vol) SDS, 100 μg/ml denatured salmon sperm DNA, and 10 ng of cucumber cDNA fragment labeled with α32P-dCTP (ICN). Membranes were washed twice for 15 min at 55°C in 2× SSC, 0.1% (wt/vol) SDS, and then autoradiographed. One positive clone (1,126-bp cDNA fragment) was isolated out of 300,000 plaques and used to screen another cDNA library constructed from whole Arabidopsis (Columbia) plants. Membranes were hybridized and washed at 65°C. A unique sequence of 1,647 bp was identified. The corresponding gene sequence was obtained by screening an Arabidopsis (Columbia) genomic library constructed in λZAP II vector (Stratagene), by using a 5′ end cDNA fragment (524 bp) of atMGD2 cDNA as described (CITATION). Nucleic fragments of atMGD1 and atMGD3 were cloned by PCR from the cDNA library used in the second screening of atMGD2 (see above). The fragments were used as probes to obtain the full-length atMGD1 and atMGD3 cDNAs. Probes designed to hybridize downstream to the putative initiation sites from atMGD1 (GATGGATTCAGGACGAGGGAGGACG), atMGD2 (GGGTGTTTGGGTGAACGATT), and atMGD3 (CACCTTCTCAGTGATTGAATCCGAC) were labeled with 32P-ATP (ICN) by using the Megalabel procedure (Takara Shuzo, Kyoto). The primer extension reaction was performed as described (CITATION). Levels of atMGD gene expression were assessed by a kinetic RT-PCR approach. Primer sets were selected in similar regions in the three genes, embracing an intron to discriminate from genomic DNA amplification (see Fig. 5, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site, www.pnas.org). Ubq10 was used as a control for constant expression (CITATION). All tested genes are unique in the Arabidopsis genome and show the same linear amplification rate from 11 to 17 cycles (not shown). Single-strand DNA was synthesized from DNase-treated total RNA (500 ng) by using avian myeloblastosis virus RT (Takara) in the presence of oligo(dT) primer at 42°C for 30 min. Thirteen-cycle PCR aliquots were analyzed on agarose gels, blotted, and radio-labeled with specific probes corresponding to the amplified fragments. Three chimeric atMGD-GFP sequences were constructed in pUC18 vectors in which atMGD1, atMGD2, and atMGD3 sequences were fused upstream and in-frame with GFP S65T gene (CITATION, CITATION) under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Three-week old seedlings of Arabidopsis (WS) grown under 10-hr photoperiod were bombarded with vector DNA-coated gold particles (1,350 psi) by using a Bio-Rad PDS-1000He Particle Delivery System under the manufacturer's instructions. After 16 h, sample leaves were viewed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (Leica, TCS-SP2). GFP and chlorophyll fluorescence were excited and collected sequentially (400 Hz line by line) by using 488 nm for GFP excitation and 543 nm for chlorophyll excitation. GFP emission was collected from 510 to 535 nm and chlorophyll emission from 600 to 700 nm. The complete sequences of atMGD2 and atMGD3 and the mature form of atMGD1 (i.e., without the 105-aa transit peptide) were in the pET-Y3a plasmid (CITATION). BL21 E. coli hosts were grown at 37°C under vigorous agitation until the OD600 reached 0.4. Expression of recombinant MGDG synthase was induced by addition of 0.4 mM isopropyl β-d-thiogalactoside, and the cultures were allowed to grow for 3.5 h at 28°C. Collected bacteria were stored at −80°C. All of the operations were carried out at 4°C. Pellets of recombinant bacteria were suspended in medium HA [6 mM 3[(3-cholamidopropyl)-dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate (CHAPS), 50 mM Mops-NaOH (pH 7.8), 1 mM DTT] containing 50 mM KH2PO4/K2HPO4 at a final protein concentration of 0.8 mg/ml. The mixture was centrifuged for 15 min at 243,000 × g (Beckman L2, rotor SW 40). The supernatant containing solubilized proteins (16 mg) was loaded on a hydroxy-apatite-Ultrogel (IBF, Villeneuve-la-Garenne, France) column (Amersham Pharmacia column C10/20, 25 ml of gel), equilibrated with medium HA containing 50 mM KH2PO4/K2HPO4. The proteins were eluted by using a 50–275 mM KH2PO4/K2HPO4 gradient (in medium HA; flow rate, 30 ml/hr; fraction size, 1.5 ml). Recombinant MGDG synthases were eluted at 275 mM KH2PO4/K2HPO4 (see Fig. 6B, which is published as supporting information). Bacterial inclusion bodies enriched in recombinant MGDG synthases were used to obtain rabbit polyclonal antibodies (Elevage Scientifique des Dombes, Châtillon-sur-Chalaronne, France). Western blot analyses were performed by using several Arabidopsis and transformed E. coli subcellular fractions. Proteins (15–50 μg) were separated by SDS/PAGE on a 12% acrylamide gel and Western blot analyses were performed as described (CITATION). MGDG synthase was detected with antibodies at a 1/5,000 dilution by using secondary antibodies coupled to alkaline phosphatase or horseradish peroxidase. Preimmune sera gave no signal. A. thaliana (WS) plants were grown for 6 weeks under a 10-hr photoperiod. Freshly collected leaves (300 g) were homogenized in 1.5 liters of ice-cold 0.45 M sorbitol, 20 mM Tricine-NaOH (pH 8.4), 10 mM EDTA, 10 mM NaHCO3, 0.1% BSA. Crude chloroplast pellets obtained by centrifugation at 1,500 × g for 3 min were purified in 0.33 M sorbitol, 20 mM Mops (pH 7.6), 5 mM MgCl2, 2.5 mM EDTA (buffer A) on a Percoll gradient formerly prepared by centrifugation of 45% Percoll in a SS 90 (Sorvall) vertical rotor at 10,000 × g for 100 min. After a 10-min centrifugation at 5,000 × g, intact chloroplasts were recovered as a heavy green layer, washed twice in buffer A, and broken in 10 mM Mops (pH 7.6), 4 mM MgCl2, 1 mM PMSF, 1 mM caproic acid. Chloroplast subfractions were separated on a step gradient of 0.93 M–0.6 M sucrose in 10 mM Mops (pH 7.6) by centrifugation at 70,000 × g for 1 h. Envelope was collected at the interface between 0.6 M and 0.93 M sucrose layers. sn-1,2-Dilinoleoyl-glycerol (C18:2/C18:2) and 1-oleoyl-2-palmitoyl-sn-glycerol (C18:1/C16:0) molecular species were obtained after phospholipase C hydrolysis of phosphatidylcholine as described (CITATION). sn-1,2-Dioleoylglycerol (18:1/18:1) was purchased from Sigma. MGDG synthase activity was assayed in several types of samples (see Fig. 6). Activity in membranes from recombinant E. coli was assayed as described (CITATION). When CHAPS-solubilized recombinant MGDG synthases were purified by hydoxyapatite chromatography, we used mixed micelles (CITATION) to fit the validation conditions of the “surface dilution” enzymology model (CITATION). We determined that 0.117 mM, 1.864 mM, and 0.932 mM phosphatidylglycerol were broad optimum concentrations to assay the galactosylation activity in purified fraction of atMGD1, atMGD2, and atMGD3, respectively. Optimum pH were broad, pH 7.5 for both atMGD1 and atMGD3 and pH 8 for atMGD2. Therefore, enzymatic activities were compared at pH 7.8. Extractions of lipids were performed according to ref. CITATION. A powder obtained after grinding Arabidopsis seedlings under liquid nitrogen was macerated and extracted twice with 3 vol of chloroform/methanol (1:2, vol/vol) by using mortar and pestle. After centrifugation at 1,600 × g for 5 min, the lower phases were recovered and the extract was evaporated. Residues were dissolved in chloroform/methanol (2:1, vol/vol) and stored at −30°C until use. The lipids were separated by two-dimensional TLC by using 7 M chloroform/methanol/ammonium (60:40:4) and chloroform/methanol/acetic acid/water (170:20:20:3) as solvents. For the analysis of galactolipids molecular species, a lipase from Rhizopus delemar was used as described (CITATION). Fatty acid composition of galactolipids was determined by gas chromatography.
