!~ABS~! Ca2+ levels in plants, fungi, and bacteria are controlled in part by H+/Ca2+exchangers; however, the relationship between primary sequence and biological activity of these transporters has not been reported. TheArabidopsis H+/cation exchangers, CAX1 and CAX2, were identified by their ability to suppress yeast mutants defective in vacuolar Ca2+transport. CAX1 has a much higher capacity for Ca2+transport than CAX2. An Arabidopsis thaliana homolog of CAX1, CAX3, is 77% identical (93% similar) and, when expressed in yeast, localized to the vacuole but did not suppress yeast mutants defective in vacuolar Ca2+ transport. Chimeric constructs and site-directed mutagenesis showed that CAX3 could suppress yeast vacuolar Ca2+ transport mutants if a nine-amino acid region of CAX1 was inserted into CAX3 (CAX3-9). Biochemical analysis in yeast showed CAX3-9 had 36% of the H+/Ca2+ exchange activity as compared with CAX1; however, CAX3-9 and CAX1 appear to differ in their transport of other ions. Exchanging the nine-amino acid region of CAX1 into CAX2 doubled yeast vacuolar Ca2+transport but did not appear to alter the transport of other ions. This nine-amino acid region is highly variable among the plant CAX-like transporters. These findings suggest that this region is involved in CAX-mediated Ca2+ specificity. 
!~RES~! Previously we have shown that CAX3 does not suppress yeast mutants defective in vacuolar Ca2+transporters despite high level expression of CAX3 in these yeast cells (CITATION). Potentially, CAX3 and CAX1 may differ in their biochemical properties in yeast because of localization on different membrane fractions. To test this hypothesis, we HA-tagged both CAX1 and CAX3 at similar regions of the N terminus. The HA-CAX1 suppressed yeast mutants defective in vacuolar Ca2+ sequestration, and HA-CAX3 expressed protein of the predicted molecular weight (data not shown). The colocalization of CAX1 and CAX3 is supported by the comigration of the two proteins in sucrose density gradients of membrane preparations obtained from yeast cells expressing the tagged proteins (Fig. 1). The sedimentation behavior of the membrane fraction containing both proteins is consistent with that of a vacuolar compartment. The two expressed plant transporters co-migrate with the yeast vacuolar marker alkaline phosphatase.  [[FIGURE]] CAX1 and CAX3 are highly similar throughout their deduced amino acid sequences. Thus, we made a series of chimeric constructs between the two open reading frames to determine which domains conveyed the different properties of vacuolar Ca2+ transport. The CAX variants used in this study do not contain the first 36 amino acids of the CAX open reading frame. The CAX1 and CAX2 open reading frames initially isolated by their function in yeast and used in this study do not contain this 36-amino acid N-terminal region. Compared with this CAX1 variant, the N terminus of the CAX3 open reading frame contains an additional 36 amino acids. If we delete this region, CAX3 still does not suppress the yeast mutants defective in vacuolar Ca2+ transport (Fig.2 A, 1). The chimeric constructs were created with the N-terminal 36 amino acids of CAX3 not present. Thus, the CAX1 and CAX3 constructs used here initiate at amino acid 37. The N terminus of CAX1 and CAX3 appeared to convey the different properties of Ca2+ transport (Fig. 2 A,2–3). The N terminus of CAX1 fused in-frame to CAX3 (CAX3-α) conferred vacuolar Ca2+ transport properties onto K667 yeast cells (deleted in the yeast vacuolar Ca2+-ATPase and vacuolar H+/Ca2+exchanger). Alternatively, if the N terminus of CAX3 is fused in-frame to CAX1 (CAX1-α), K667 strains expressing this transporter did not suppress the Ca2+ sensitivity. If the central or C terminus of CAX3 was fused in-frame to CAX1 (CAX1-β/CAX1-γ or CAX1-δ, respectively), the phenotype of K667 cells expressing these hybrid proteins was indistinguishable from CAX1-expressing cells. Conversely, if the central or C terminus of CAX1 was fused in-frame to CAX3 (CAX3-β/CAX3-γ or CAX3-δ, respectively), these hybrid proteins did not suppress the K667 cells. In total, these findings showed that a region at the N terminus of these open reading frames determined the differences in vacuolar Ca2+ transport.  We then took the N terminus of CAX1 and CAX3 and divided this region in two. We demonstrated that the region between amino acids 74 and 149 defined the majority of the differences between CAX1 and CAX3. That is, if the region from 74–149 of CAX1 was fused in-frame to CAX3 (CAX3-α2), this hybrid transporter suppressed the K667 yeast cell Ca2+ sensitivity (Fig. 2 A, 4). Meanwhile, if the region from 37 to 73 of CAX1 was fused in-frame to the CAX3 open reading frame (CAX3-α1), the hybrid CAX3 protein did not strongly suppress the yeast mutant. Expression of this chimeric protein weakly suppressed the Ca2+ sensitivity of the yeast strains but only after multiple days of growth on the Ca2+-containing media.  Once we had defined the region between 74 and 149 as important for vacuolar Ca2+transport, we decided to specifically exchange the polymorphic 9-amino acid regions (amino acid residues from 87–95) in CAX1 and CAX3. The nine-amino acid region of CAX1 fused in-frame to CAX3 (termed CAX3-9) conferred Ca2+ suppression when expressed in yeast mutants defective in vacuolar Ca2+ transport (Fig. 2 A,5). The nine-amino acid region of CAX3 fused in-frame to CAX1 (termed CAX1-9) inhibited ability of CAX1 to suppress the K667 Ca2+-sensitive phenotype. We have termed this nine-amino acid region of CAX1 the “Ca2+ domain.”  We proceeded to focus on CAX3. Expression of CAX3 chimeras containing the first six amino acids from the Ca2+ domain of CAX1 suppressed the K667 Ca2+ sensitivity; however, CAX3 chimeras expressing the last six amino acids of the Ca2+domain of CAX1 did not suppress the yeast mutant (data not shown). Expression of a CAX3 hybrid that expressed the first three amino acids from the CAX1 Ca2+ domain (termed CAX3-ICT) suppressed the yeast mutant (Fig. 2 A, 6). This suppression was not as pronounced as that seen with the exchange of the entire nine-amino acid region; it usually took 2 days to observe significant colony growth on Ca2+-containing media. Meanwhile, expression of hybrid CAX3 containing the second three amino acids or the last three amino acids from the Ca2+ domain of CAX1 did not suppress the K667 strain. In total, these observations specifically identified a three-amino acid region as an important determinant for CAX3 vacuolar Ca2+ transport in yeast.  We proceeded to individually substitute each of the three CAX3 amino acids for the corresponding amino acids found in the CAX1 Ca2+ domain (L87I, A88C, N89T). Only the CAX3 variant containing the leucine-to-isoleucine change (termed CAX3-I) conferred Ca2+ tolerance on the K667 yeast strain (Fig.2 A, 7). This suppression was not as pronounced as that seen with the exchange of the entire 9-amino acid Ca2+domain, but substantial growth could be seen after 2 days on the Ca2+-containing media.  To demonstrate that the changes in Ca2+ transport were not due to alteration in protein expression or stability, we assayed the yeast strains for expression of the CAX transporters. All yeast cells transformed with various CAX constructs appeared to express approximately equal amounts of CAX protein (Fig. 2 B; data not shown).  The assay of yeast growth on Ca2+-containing media does not allow us to make precise measurements about changes in H+/Ca2+ antiport activity. CAX1 has been shown to restore vacuolar H+/Ca2+ antiport activity to yeast strains deficient in this transporter (CITATION). Presumably, CAX3 fails to suppress yeast strains deficient in vacuolar Ca2+transport due to the inability of this transporter to drive Ca2+ transport into the yeast vacuole. It stands to reason that variants of CAX3 that suppress the vacuolar Ca2+transport-deficient strains do so by H+/Ca2+antiport activity. To directly test H+/Ca2+antiport activity, we isolated yeast endomembrane vesicles purified from vector control, CAX1-, CAX3-, CAX3-9- and CAX3-I-transformed K667 cells, and examined their capacity forΔpH-dependent Ca2+ uptake.  The addition of MgCl2/ATP and establishment of a steady-state ΔpH by the V-ATPase associated with the vacuolar membrane before the addition of Ca2+ resulted in uptake by membrane vesicles from the CAX1-, CAX3-9-, and CAX3-I-transformed cells (Fig.3 A). The CAX1-, CAX3-9-, and CAX3-I-expressing vesicles had the uptake capabilities of ∼2.60, 0.95 (36.5% of CAX1), and 0.19 (7.1% of CAX1) nmol/mg of protein, respectively. Although the rates varied between various membrane preparations, the CAX3-9 yeast vesicles always had less than 40% of the Ca2+ uptake capacity compared with CAX1 (data not shown). The CAX3-expressing vesicles showed no H+/Ca2+ antiport activity. In CAX1-, CAX3-9-, and CAX3-I-expressing K667 vesicles, the inclusion of gramicidin in the uptake medium decreased 45Ca2+ uptake to a level similar to that seen in the absence of MgCl2/ATP (data not shown). The low rate of uptake found in vesicles from K667 cells transformed with control vector or CAX3 was not inhibited by gramicidin or by the V-ATPase inhibitor, bafilomycin (data not shown). These results together with the release of45Ca2+ seen with the addition of the Ca2+ ionophore, A23187, to CAX1, CAX3-9, and CAX3-I vesicles versus the small increase seen in45Ca2+ uptake with vector control and CAX3 vesicles demonstrate that CAX1-, CAX3-9-, and CAX3-I-generated uptake is concentrative.  [[FIGURE]] Inhibition of ΔpH-dependent Ca2+uptake by other metals was compared between CAX1- and CAX3-9-expressing vesicles. CAX1 was significantly inhibited by the presence of excess Ca2+ and Cd2+ but not Mn2+, whereas CAX3-9 was only inhibited by Ca2+ (Fig. 3 B).  Regardless of whether antiport activity was assayed as V-ATPase-dependent (bafilomycin A1-sensitive)45Ca2+ uptake (data not shown) orΔpH-dependent (gramicidin-sensitive) uptake, the initial rate for vacuolar membrane-enriched vesicles purified for CAX3-9- and CAX3-I-transformed vesicles increased as a simple hyperbolic (Michaelian) function of Ca2+concentration to yield an apparent K m value of 20 ± 10 μm Ca2+ (Fig.4).  [[FIGURE]] CAX2 suppresses yeast mutants defective in vacuolar Ca2+ transport but has a lower capacity for Ca2+ transport than does CAX1 (CITATION). To ascertain whether this nine-amino acid Ca2+ domain confers different transport properties in vacuolar Ca2+ transport onto these transporters, we moved the nine-amino acid domain from CAX1 into CAX2 (termed CAX2-9). Yeast cells harboring the CAX2-9 gene grew better in Ca2+-containing media than did CAX2-containing cells (Fig.5). We then purified endomembrane vesicles from vector control, CAX2-, and CAX2-9-transformed K667 cells and examined their capacity forΔpH-dependent Ca2+ uptake. The yeast cells expressing CAX2-9 were capable of H+/Ca2+ transport at a rate approximately twice that of yeast cells expressing CAX2 (Fig. 5 B). We also verified that equal amounts of CAX protein were expressed in the CAX2-9- and CAX2-expressing cells (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] It has been previously demonstrated that CAX2 is able to transport Cd2+ and Mn2+ as well as Ca2+ (CITATION,CITATION). Experiments were performed to determine whether theΔpH-dependent uptake of45Ca2+ into CAX2-expressing endomembrane vesicles could be inhibited by excess concentrations of Ca2+, Cd2+, or Mn2+. CAX2-dependent Ca2+ uptake was significantly inhibited by all metals (Fig. 5 C). To determine whether this inhibition was altered by swapping the nine-amino acid domain of CAX1 into CAX2, this experiment was repeated with endomembrane vesicles from CAX2-9-transformed cells. CAX2-9-dependent Ca2+uptake was inhibited by the various metals in a manner indistinguishable from CAX2 (Fig. 5 C).  The deduced amino acids that constitute this nine-amino acid Ca2+domain populate one of the most polymorphic regions within the CAX group of putative transporters (Fig.6) (CITATION). None of the amino acids are identical in this region of CAX1, CAX2, and CAX3. The regions flanking this region are quite similar to each other within each region. In the first putative membrane-spanning domain, 35% (7/20) of the CAX1, CAX2, and CAX3 amino acids are identical. In the second putative membrane-spanning domain 67% (10/15) are identical. However, this region is not the only domain that varies among the CAX open reading frames. The region between the putative fifth and sixth membrane-spanning domain shares only 11% (2/18) identity among CAX1, CAX2, and CAX3. Furthermore, although the amino acids in the acidic motif are quite similar, they are less than 10% identical among these genes (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! K667(cnb1::LEU2 pmc1::TRP1 vcx1) was the yeast strain used to express chimeric and mutant genes (CITATION). The clones were propagated in either pBluescript (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) or pGEM-7Zf(+) (Promega, Madison, WI), and inserts were transferred to the shuttle vector piHGpd (CITATION) for their expression in the yeast. The plasmids were introduced into yeast by lithium acetate/polyethylene glycol transformation (CITATION), and standard techniques were used to manipulate DNA (CITATION).  The coding sequences ofCAX1 and CAX3 were divided into four regions defined by unique internal restriction sites and the restriction sites on the vector. The chimeric clones were mobilized into the yeast expression vector and transformed into yeast.  Site-directed mutagenesis was performed using a QuikChange site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene) and a new method described in detail elsewhere (CITATION). All polymerase chain reaction-derived DNA clones were sequenced. The primers used in the study are shown in Table I. For the names of the resulting clones, see Fig. 2.  [[TABLE]] [[FIGURE]] The HA epitope (YPYDVPDYA) (CITATION) was amplified by polymerase chain reaction and ligated in-frame in front of the CAX1 or CAX3 sequence.  Preparation of vacuolar membrane-enriched vesicles for protein blot analyses was based on the method by Liang and Sze (CITATION). The gradients and fraction density were performed as previously described (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Ten micrograms of protein from each fraction was separated on a polyacrylamide gel and blotted as previously described (CITATION). Monoclonal mouse IgG against HA (Berkeley Antibody Co., Richmond, CA), yeast vacuolar alkaline phosphatase (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR), and yeast dolichol phosphate mannose synthase (an endoplasmic reticulum indicator, Molecular Probes) were used at a 1:3000, 1:300 and 1:250 dilution, respectively. Affinity-purified polyclonal antibody against the plasma membrane H+-ATPase was used at a 1:1000 dilution. To analyze the expression of CAX proteins in yeast, total proteins were isolated frompmc1vcx1cnb1 mutants transformed with various constructs and analyzed as previously described (CITATION). This CAX antibody cross-reacts with CAX1 and CAX3 and was used at a 1:100 dilution. Secondary antibodies and blot development were as previously described (CITATION).  The assay for Ca2+tolerance on solid agar and liquid media was as previously described (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION).  Vacuolar membrane-enriched microsomes were prepared as previously described (CITATION). Measurements of the time dependence of Ca2+ uptake were done as previously described (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). The inhibition of uncoupler-sensitive Ca2+ uptake by other metals was determined from measurements of single samples taken 10 min after the addition of 10 μm 45Ca2+ in the absence or presence of 100 μm CaCl2, CdCl2, or MnCl2. These ion concentrations are approximately 10 times the K m for Ca2+ of CAX1. 
