!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis EDS1 and PAD4 genes encode lipase‐like proteins that function in resistance (R) gene‐mediated and basal plant disease resistance. Phenotypic analysis of eds1 and pad4 null mutants shows that EDS1 and PAD4 are required for resistance conditioned by the same spectrum of R genes but fulfil distinct roles within the defence pathway. EDS1 is essential for elaboration of the plant hypersensitive response, whereas EDS1 and PAD4 are both required for accumulation of the plant defence‐potentiating molecule, salicylic acid. EDS1 is necessary for pathogen‐induced PAD4 mRNA accumulation, whereas mutations in PAD4 or depletion of salicylic acid only partially compromise EDS1 expression. Yeast two‐hybrid analysis reveals that EDS1 can dimerize and interact with PAD4. However, EDS1 dimerization is mediated by different domains to those involved in EDS1–PAD4 association. Co‐immunoprecipitation experiments show that EDS1 and PAD4 proteins interact in healthy and pathogen‐challenged plant cells. We propose two functions for EDS1. The first is required early in plant defence, independently of PAD4. The second recruits PAD4 in the amplification of defences, possibly by direct EDS1–PAD4 association.
!~RES~! We examined the RPP5‐mediated resistance phenotypes of wild‐type Ler, null eds1‐2 and pad4‐2 mutant plants and Ler‐NahG plants (expressing the SA‐depleting enzyme, salicylate hydroxylase; Bowling et al., 1997) after inoculation with P.parasitica isolate Noco2. Two‐week‐old seedlings were sprayed with Noco2 conidia and infected leaves assessed up to 7 days after inoculation. As shown in FIG-REF, Ler elaborated an HR at points of pathogen penetration that was visible microscopically after staining leaves with lactophenol Trypan Blue (TB) (Parker et al., 1993). Mycelium did not grow beyond these discrete patches of necrotic plant cells. In contrast, Noco2 colonization of eds1‐2 plants was unrestricted and the mycelium rapidly ramified throughout the plant to produce abundant asexual spores on the leaf surface after 6 days (FIG-REF). The phenotype of pad4‐2 was strikingly different to that of eds1‐2. Leaves exhibited trails of necrotic plant cells and permitted the emergence of occasional sporophores after 6–7 days. Lactophenol Trypan Blue staining revealed that pad4‐2 produced an HR but the pathogen was able to grow beyond the initial infection site, giving rise to trails of dead plant cells at the plant‐pathogen interface (FIG-REF). Ler‐NahG plants exhibited a similar trailing necrotic phenotype to pad4‐2 in response to Noco2, although mycelial ingress was less extensive in leaves of NahG plants than in pad4‐2 (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] We concluded from these analyses that EDS1 and PAD4 have different functions in RPP5‐mediated resistance. Whereas EDS1 is an indispensable component of the HR and is associated with early plant defences, PAD4 appears to exert a resistance strengthening or potentiating activity that is downstream or independent of HR development. Similarity between the phenotypes of pad4‐2 and NahG leaves suggests that a major role of PAD4 is to promote SA accumulation in the RPP5‐conditioned response. In order to identify potential protein interactors with EDS1, the full‐length EDS1 cDNA was fused to the LexA DNA‐binding domain in the bait vector pLexA (pLex‐EDS1). A Landsberg‐erecta two‐hybrid cDNA library derived from pathogen‐challenged plant material was constructed in the pJG4‐5 activation domain (AD) vector (see Materials and methods). The pLex‐EDS1 bait was verified not to auto‐activate the LEU2 and LacZ reporter genes and to move to the nucleus. After transformation of the two‐hybrid library in yeast strain EGY191(p8op‐ LacZ/pLex‐EDS1), 6 000 000 primary transformants were obtained and 60 000 000 yeast clones were screened for potential EDS1 interactors. The dominant class of interactor (in 11 isolates) was identified as PAD4. Only full‐length PAD4 inserts were recovered from the screen. EDS1–PAD4 interaction was also tested in the reciprocal combination with PAD4 fused to the LexA domain and was found to be stronger than the original interaction (data not shown). EDS1 did not interact with the control bait protein Bicoid (FIG-REF), making it unlikely that EDS1 is a sticky protein associating non‐specifically with PAD4. In addition, a separate two‐hybrid screen using full‐length PAD4 yielded 50 positive interactors, 37 of which encoded full‐length EDS1 (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Comparison of the EDS1 and PAD4 protein sequences revealed a novel conserved domain in the C‐terminus that we have named the EP domain (for EDS1 and PAD4‐defined; FIG-REF), which is not present in other known proteins outside the plant kingdom. The only other Arabidopsis gene containing the EP domain is SAG101, of unknown function, which is expressed during plant senescence (He et al., 2001). FIG-REF shows a sequence alignment of the EP domain in EDS1, PAD4 and SAG101. [[FIGURE]] In order to define regions of EDS1 and PAD4 that are required for interaction, we tested combinations of different EDS1 and PAD4 subdomains in the yeast two‐hybrid assay. A schematic diagram of the designated EDS1 and PAD4 domains is shown in FIG-REF. Western blot analysis was performed on all combinations to confirm stable expression of the fusion proteins (data not shown). We found that PAD4 interacted with full‐length EDS1 but not with any EDS1 subdomain tested, as shown in FIG-REF. PAD4 association with EDS1 was through its N‐terminal region, comprising the predicted lipase domain. In particular, the first 15 amino acids of PAD4 were indispensable for interaction with EDS1. We next tested whether EDS1 and PAD4 were each capable of dimerization. EDS1, but not PAD4, strongly interacted with itself, suggesting that EDS1 may function in both homomeric associations as well as in heteromeric complexes with PAD4. The C‐terminus of EDS1 was sufficient for interaction with full‐length EDS1 (FIG-REF), suggesting that EDS1 dimerization occurs through the C‐terminal end. No interaction between full‐length EDS1 and its N‐terminal domain (amino acids 1–350) was observed (data not shown). The absence of PAD4 dimerization in the two‐hybrid system indicates a degree of specificity in interactions between members of this class of lipase‐like proteins. Previously, we isolated the eds1‐1 mutant carrying a single amino acid substitution that changes a highly conserved glutamate at position 466 within the EP domain to an oppositely charged lysine residue (E466K in FIG-REF). The eds1‐1 mutant has a complete loss of function phenotype (Parker et al., 1996; Falk et al., 1999). Western blot analysis showed that fusions of EDS1 (E466K) to both the LexA and AD domain were stably expressed in yeast cells during two‐hybrid interaction assays (data not shown). We assessed the effect of the E466K mutation on two‐hybrid interactions and found that EDS1–PAD4 association was abolished, whereas it reduced, but did not abolish EDS1 dimerization (FIG-REF). Quantification of β‐galactosidase activity (see Materials and methods) gave the following values for the interactions: EDS1 + EDS1, 107 ± 16 units; EDS1 (E466K) + EDS1(E466K), 17 ± 4 units. The contrasting effect of the E466K mutation on the EDS1–PAD4 and EDS1–EDS1 interactions provides further evidence that the mode of EDS1 association with PAD4 is different to that of EDS1 dimerization. In order to study protein interactions in plant cells, a null mutant pad4 line (pad4‐5; see below) was stably transformed with wild‐type PAD4 containing an N‐terminal c‐Myc epitope tag expressed from the native PAD4 promoter (Myc::PAD4). The c‐Myc epitope did not interfere with PAD4 function, as several independent transgenic lines exhibited full resistance to P.parasitica isolate Noco2 (data not shown). In addition, we generated anti‐EDS1 polyclonal antiserum (see Materials and methods). Both the anti‐c‐Myc antibody and the anti‐EDS1 antiserum detected single protein bands of the expected size (69.6 kDa for Myc::PAD4, 71.5 kDa for EDS1) in total soluble extracts of the Myc::PAD4 transgenic line, but not in protein extracts from the pad4‐5 or eds1‐1 mutant, respectively (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Immunoprecipitation of EDS1 protein from extracts of the Myc::PAD4 line using the anti‐EDS1 antiserum, followed by detection on western blots using the anti‐c‐Myc antibody, showed that the EDS1 and PAD4 proteins interact in healthy plant tissue (FIG-REF). Pre‐immune serum was not able to co‐immunoprecipitate the EDS1–PAD4 complex, indicating that immunoprecipitation was specific for EDS1. In addition, no signal was detected when co‐immunoprecipitation was performed with protein extracts from the pad4‐5 mutant line, showing that the Myc::PAD4 protein was specifically detected after immunoprecipitation (FIG-REF). Co‐immunoprecipitation experiments, performed by first immunoprecipitating Myc::PAD4 with anti‐c‐Myc antibodies, followed by western blot detection of EDS1, also showed specific interaction between EDS1 and PAD4 (data not shown). Co‐immunoprecipitation experiments using independent Myc::PAD4 transgenic lines gave identical results (data not shown). These data demonstrate that interaction between EDS1 and PAD4 in the yeast two‐hybrid assay reflects their ability to associate in the plant. We tested, by co‐immunoprecipitation, whether the extent of EDS1–PAD4 association changed after pathogen inoculation of plants. EDS1 and PAD4 protein levels in total leaf extracts did not alter substantially after infection with a virulent P.parasitica isolate, Emwa1, except at day 6 when increases in the abundance of both proteins were detectable (FIG-REF). At all stages of P.parasitica infection, PAD4 co‐immunoprecipitated with EDS1. At day 6, enhanced levels of both proteins correlated with increased detection of co‐immunoprecipitable PAD4 (FIG-REF), suggesting that EDS1 and PAD4 expression and physical association respond to pathogen colonization. Similar results were obtained after inoculation of plants with avirulent P.parasitica isolate, Noco2, although in this interaction no increases in total or co‐immunoprecipitable EDS1 and PAD4 were observed by day 6 (data not shown). Leaves of mature plants were infiltrated with the virulent P.syringae pv. tomato strain, DC3000, or with avirulent DC3000 expressing avrRps4 (DC3000/avrRps4), allowing synchronous infection of a larger area of tissue than could be achieved with P.parasitica. Enhanced levels of EDS1 and PAD4 protein were observed in tissues responding to DC3000/avrRps4 12 h after infiltration and these persisted for up to 48 h (FIG-REF). Increased EDS1 and PAD4 expression correlated with enhanced detection of co‐immunoprecipitable PAD4 (FIG-REF). A slight increase in EDS1 and PAD4 expression was also observed after inoculation with virulent DC3000, although this occurred later (48 h) than in tissues inoculated with DC3000/avrRps4 (FIG-REF). In addition, leaves were sprayed with the bioactive SA analogue, benzothiadiazole (BTH). Here, elevated EDS1 and PAD4 expression corresponded with higher levels of co‐immunoprecipitable PAD4 24 h after treatment (FIG-REF). Our findings that EDS1 and PAD4 interact in a two‐hybrid assay and in plant cells prompted us to assess the effects of eds1 and pad4 mutants on a broader range of R gene‐mediated responses within the same plant genetic background. This would establish whether EDS1 and PAD4 functions are tightly associated genetically or can be partially separated into different pathways. First, the effects of eds1‐2 and pad4‐2 on RPP genes recognizing distinct P.parasitica isolates were measured in accession Ler. As shown in Table I, resistance responses mediated by RPP5 and RPP21 that are fully EDS1 dependent (Aarts et al., 1998) were partially compromised by pad4, producing the characteristic trailing necrotic phenotype (see also FIG-REF). In contrast, RPP7‐ and RPP8‐mediated resistance operated independently of both EDS1 and PAD4 (Table I). Analysis was extended to R genes expressed in accession Ws‐0 by isolating a line containing a T‐DNA insertion in PAD4 (pad4‐5; see Materials and methods). The pad4‐5 mutant is an mRNA null mutant, since transcripts could not be detected using sensitive TaqMan analysis (see below). Here, we found that the EDS1‐dependent RPP1A, 1B and 1C genes (Aarts et al., 1998) conferred partial resistance in pad4‐5 with a similar phenotype to that observed for RPP5 and RPP21 in pad4‐2 (Table I). We then measured the effects of eds1‐2, pad4‐2 and the NahG transgene on RPM1‐, RPS2‐ and RPS4‐mediated resistance in Ler to P.syringae pv. tomato DC3000 expressing, respectively, avrRpm1, avrRpt2 and avrRps4. Leaves were dipped into bacterial suspensions and bacterial growth and disease symptoms monitored over 5 days. Wild‐type plants restricted growth of all the avirulent strains compared with growth of virulent DC3000 (FIG-REF). The eds1‐2 mutation fully suppressed RPS4 resistance but did not affect resistance mediated by RPM1 and weakly compromised RPS2 resistance (FIG-REF). In leaves of pad4‐2 and Ler‐NahG, growth of DC3000/avrRps4 was intermediate between that observed in wild‐type Ler and eds1‐2 (FIG-REF). This correlated with a slow and sporadic appearance of chlorotic symptoms in pad4‐2 and Ler‐NahG, compared with eds1‐2 (FIG-REF). Like eds1‐2, pad4‐2 caused a slight relaxation of RPS2‐mediated resistance but had no effect on resistance conditioned by RPM1 (FIG-REF). Interestingly, Ler‐NahG permitted significant growth of both DC3000/avrRpt2 and DC3000/avrRpm1 (FIG-REF), suggesting that SA is furnished in an EDS1‐ and PAD4‐independent manner in these responses. [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] The P.parasitica and P.syringae infection studies reveal that all strongly EDS1‐dependent R gene responses examined have a partial requirement for PAD4, and that EDS1‐independent interactions are also independent of PAD4. These data suggest that PAD4 and EDS1 function within the same defence signaling pathway. In independent studies, PAD4 and EDS1 have been implicated as regulators of SA‐dependent defences (Zhou et al., 1998; Falk et al., 1999). We therefore wished to examine the relative contributions of EDS1 and PAD4 to SA accumulation in the same R gene response. Salicylic acid accumulation profiles of wild‐type Ler, eds1‐2 and pad4‐2 leaves were analyzed after triggering an EDS1/PAD4‐dependent R gene response (RPS4‐mediated resistance), an EDS1/PAD4‐independent response (RPM1‐mediated resistance) or in a compatible interaction with P.syringae DC3000. We found that eds1‐2 and pad4‐2 severely depleted SA accumulation after infection with virulent DC3000 (FIG-REF). Salicylic acid accumulation was also abolished in eds1‐2 plants and was strongly reduced in pad4‐2 after inoculation with DC3000/avrRps4 (FIG-REF). In contrast, eds1‐2 and pad4‐2 did not compromise SA accumulation in plants responding to DC3000/avrRpm1 (FIG-REF). The importance of EDS1 and PAD4 as regulators of SA levels therefore correlates with a genetic requirement for their functions in RPS4‐mediated resistance. In RPM1‐mediated resistance SA accumulation bypasses both EDS1 and PAD4, consistent with the bacterial growth data in NahG plants showing a requirement of RPM1 resistance for SA but not for EDS1 or PAD4 (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] EDS1 (Falk et al., 1999) and PAD4 (Jirage et al., 1999) mRNAs are induced in response to pathogen inoculation or SA treatment. Here, we examined whether their mode of expression is affected by a mutation in either gene or by the presence of NahG. Leaves were infiltrated with a suspension of DC3000/avrRps4 in 10 mM MgCl2 or with 10 mM MgCl2 alone, or were sprayed with BTH. Total RNA was extracted at various time points up to 48 h after treatment, reverse transcribed into cDNA, and EDS1 and PAD4 mRNA levels measured using real‐time quantitative PCR and TaqMan chemistry (Holland et al., 1991). This procedure (Wang and Brown, 1999) is particularly suitable for measuring expression levels of rare transcripts, such as EDS1 (Falk et al., 1999; Clarke et al., 2001). The Arabidopsis actin gene ACT2 was chosen as a normalization standard because of its constitutive expression in nearly all vegetative tissues in juvenile and mature plants (An et al., 1996; see Materials and methods). The fold induction of EDS1 and PAD4 mRNA levels in Ler wild‐type and mutant lines after bacterial inoculation or BTH treatment is shown in FIG-REF. EDS1 expression was induced after inoculation with DC3000 alone or DC3000 expressing avrRps4. The presence of pad4‐2 or depletion of SA by NahG partially compromised pathogen‐induced EDS1 expression. Expression of PAD4 mRNA was more strongly induced than EDS1 in pathogen‐treated Ler plants. This induction was severely reduced in eds1‐2 plants and partially compromised by NahG. Neither mutant transcript responded strongly to pathogen inoculation, suggesting a requirement for functional protein in optimal upregulation and/or stability of their respective transcripts. As shown previously, applications of BTH induced expression of EDS1 and PAD4 mRNAs (Falk et al., 1999; Jirage et al., 1999). Mutations in either gene had little or no effect on the induction of the other gene, suggesting that BTH may lead to increased expression of EDS1 and PAD4 independently of each other. [[FIGURE]] The Ler data show that loss of EDS1 function has a much stronger negative effect on PAD4 expression than defective PAD4 does on EDS1 expression. The results were reinforced by a similar analysis of Ws‐0 wild type and corresponding eds1‐1 and pad4‐5 mutant lines (FIG-REF). Inoculation of Ws‐0 with DC3000 or DC3000/avrRps4 induced levels of both EDS1 and PAD4 mRNAs, although the overall fold induction of PAD4 mRNA was considerably higher than that observed in Ler. Pathogen induction of PAD4 expression was almost completely abolished in eds1‐1 plants. In contrast, pad4‐5 did not suppress induction of EDS1 mRNA in the plant response to DC3000/avrRps4 and had a partial effect on EDS1 mRNA induction in response to DC3000. TaqMan analysis of mRNA abundance was shown previously to accurately reflect EDS1 expression in wild‐type and mutant plants (Clarke et al., 2001). We found that our estimations of PAD4 mRNA abundance by TaqMan analysis also correlated well with PAD4 mRNA levels measured on an RNA gel blot (compare FIG-REF bottom panel with FIG-REF). RNA gel blot analysis of selected samples was further used to determine the consequences of the eds1 and pad4 mutations on downstream plant defences by measuring expression levels of the SA‐responsive marker gene PR1. As shown in FIG-REF, pathogen‐induced expression of PR1 in wild‐type Ws‐0 plants was abolished by eds1‐1 and strongly suppressed by pad4‐5. In these tests, PR1 expression was fully rescued in eds1‐2 and pad4‐2 in response to BTH treatment (FIG-REF), consistent with the placement of EDS1 and PAD4 upstream of SA accumulation.
!~MM~! The isolation of eds1‐1 and eds1‐2 (Parker et al., 1996; Falk et al., 1999) and pad4‐2 (Jirage et al., 1999) mutants has been described before. The pad4‐5 mutant was identified by a reverse‐genetic screen of the Feldmann T‐DNA lines (Ws‐0 background; Feldmann et al., 1991) for insertions into the PAD4 gene. A homozygous insertion line was identified in a subpool of 10 single insertion lines (stock CS12182 at the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, Columbus, OH). Sequencing of the T‐DNA border–PAD4 junction revealed that the T‐DNA had inserted 35 bp 5′ to the end of the unique intron in the PAD4 gene. Pseudomonas syringae strains and P.parasitica isolates used in this study have been described before (Aarts et al., 1998; McDowell et al., 2000). The PAD4 coding sequence was PCR amplified as a NcoI–BamHI fragment cloned into SLJ4C3 upstream of the NOS terminator. The 35S promoter was removed and replaced with 1 kb of PAD4 promoter amplified as an EcoRI–NcoI fragment. A NcoI cassette containing five copies of the c‐Myc epitope (derived from pJR1265, R.Hampton and J.Rine, personal communication) was inserted between the PAD4 promoter and the PAD4 coding sequence to give an N‐terminal fusion. The construct was transferred to the binary Basta‐resistant plasmid SLJ755I5, conjugated to Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101, and pad4‐5 mutant plants were transformed using the flower‐dip method (Clough and Bent, 1998). Several independent homozygous lines with single locus T‐DNA inserts were identified and confirmed to confer full resistance to P.parasitica isolate Noco2. A mutant form of EDS1 (G125R) was highly expressed in Escherichia coli M15 (pREP4) as a fusion to a His6 tag (Qiagen), was purified on TALON metal affinity resin (Clontech) and further purified by electro‐elution from a preparative SDS–PAGE gel. New Zealand white male rabbits were immunized and sera were collected. Total protein extracts were prepared from 5‐week‐old leaf material after grinding in liquid nitrogen and extracting in 50 mM Tris pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl and 1 mM EDTA, containing 1× Protease Inhibitor Cocktail (Sigma). Samples were spun at 16 000 g for 20 min and protein concentration of the soluble fraction was determined using Bradford reagent (Bio‐Rad) and bovine serum albumin as a standard. For immunoprecipitation (IP) reactions, 1 mg of total protein was incubated with 5 μl of EDS1 antiserum (or pre‐immune serum) in a total volume of 1 ml of IP buffer (50 mM Tris pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 0.01% Triton X‐100) and rotated end‐over‐end at 4°C for 90 min. Protein A/G Plus beads (35 μl, equilibrated in IP buffer; Santa Cruz Biotechnology) were added and the reactions were incubated for a further 60 min. IP reactions were washed three times with 1 ml of ice‐cold IP buffer, resuspended in 40 μl of SDS–PAGE sample buffer, boiled for 5 min and 10 μl run on 7.5% SDS–PAGE gels (Bio‐Rad). For standard western blotting analysis, 50 μg of total protein were loaded. Proteins were electroblotted to PVDF membranes (Amersham), blocked for 1 h at room temperature in phosphate‐buffered saline (PBS)‐Tween containing 5% (wt/vol) non‐fat dried milk. Incubation with primary antibodies was in PBS‐Tween containing 5% (wt/vol) non‐fat dried milk using the following dilutions: EDS1 antiserum (1:7500); anti c‐Myc 9E10 (1:5 000; Santa Cruz Biotechnology). Blots were developed using the SuperSignal West Pico Chemiluminescent kit (Pierce). Inoculations with P.parasitica and P.syringae, as well as calculation of growth curves were performed as described by Aarts et al. (1998). BTH wettable powder (Novartis, Basel; Lawton et al., 1996) was resuspended in water at a concentration of 300 μM active ingredient and plants were sprayed to imminent run off. We used the LexA two‐hybrid system (kindly provided by Roger Brent, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA; Gyuris et al., 1993). Details of the construction of the two‐hybrid cDNA library are in van der Biezen et al. (2000). Two‐hybrid analyses were carried out according to Golemis et al. (1998). The various EDS1 and PAD4 domains were generated by PCR, verified by sequencing on a Perkin‐Elmer ABI377 sequencing machine, and subcloned into pLexA and/or pJG4‐5. All pLexA constructs were tested for auto‐activation of the LacZ and LEU2 reporters. Repression assays with JK101 confirmed protein fusion synthesis and nuclear localization of the LexA fusion protein. pLex‐EDS1 showed slight auto‐activation of the LEU2 reporter, and was therefore transformed in the less sensitive yeast strain EGY191. All other two‐hybrid combinations were performed in the standard yeast strain EGY48. Western blotting analysis was performed on total yeast protein extracts, derived from galactose‐induced cultures, using anti‐LexA (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) and anti‐HA (Roche) antibodies. The eds1‐1 (E466K) mutation was introduced using site‐directed mutagenesis with the QuickChange kit (Stratagene). Quantitative β‐galactosidase assays were performed on a minimum of six independent yeast transformants for each combination of interactors, and the average for each interaction was calculated as described in Ausubel et al. (1996). The experiment was performed twice with similar results. The procedure for SA extraction and determination is described in Newman et al. (2001). Total RNA was isolated using Tri Reagent (Sigma). For TaqMan analysis, 1–2 μg of total RNA were reverse transcribed using Expand Reverse Transcriptase (Roche) and random hexamers (Pharmacia). TaqMan reactions were carried out on an ABI 7700 Sequence Detection System (Perkin‐Elmer) according to the manufacturer's instructions. All reactions were done in triplicate. The Arabidopsis ACT2 gene was chosen as a normalization standard for TaqMan analysis because of its high, constitutive expression in nearly all vegetative tissues in both juvenile and mature plants (An et al., 1996). ACT2 expression among the various treatments (pathogen challenge and BTH) did not vary more than 2‐fold compared with rRNA levels (data not shown), and was therefore considered suitable for normalization. The ACT2 gene, including part of the 3′ UTR, from accessions Col‐0, Ler and Ws‐0, was PCR amplified and sequenced in order to design primers and a TaqMan probe that would work in all three accessions. The ACT2 reverse primer was derived from the 3′ UTR in order to make it specific for ACT2 mRNA. TaqMan probes for ACT2, EDS1 and PAD4 were made cDNA specific by designing them across an intron. Primers and probes were designed using Primer Express software (Perkin‐Elmer) and are as follows: ACT2‐F, TCGGTGGTTCCATTCTTGCT; ACT2‐R, GCTTTTTAAGCCTTTGATCTTGAGAG; ACT2‐probe, AGCACATTCCAGCAGATGTGGATCTCCAA; EDS1‐F, CAAGAATCTTGAAGCTGTC ATTGATC; EDS1‐R, TGTCCTGTGAACACTATCTGTTTTCTACT; EDS1‐probe, CACAGCCATTTCCACAGAAGCTTGAAATG; PAD4‐F, TGGTCGACGCTGCCATACT; PAD4‐R, GGTTGAATGGCCGGTTATCA; PAD4‐probe, AATTCCAATCCTTCCTTGATCTTTAACTGAAGAAAGAGT. For RNA gel blots, 10 μg of total RNA were separated on a 1.2% formaldehyde agarose gel and blotted to Hybond NX (Amersham) according to the manufacturer's instructions. PAD4 and PR‐1 32P‐radiolabelled probes were generated with the Oligolabeling kit (Pharmacia). Sequences were aligned using Clustal_W (http://www2.ebi.ac.uk/clustalw) and the alignment was shaded using BoxShade (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/BOX_form.html).
