!~ABS~! We recently isolated the AtBI-1 (Arabidopsis Bax Inhibitor-1) gene, the expression of which suppressed Bax-induced cell death in yeast. To determine whether the same is true in the plant system, transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing Bax protein under a dexamethasone (DEX)-inducible promoter were generated. On DEX treatment, such transgenic plants exhibited marked cell death at the whole-plant level, cell shrinkage, membranous destruction, and other apoptotic phenotypes. Transgenic Bax plants were retransformed with a vector containing the AtBI-1 gene (tagged with green fluorescent protein) under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Plants expressing both Bax and AtBI-1 were able to maintain growth on DEX-treatment by sustaining intracellular integrity. Thus, we present here direct genetic evidence that the plant antiapoptotic protein AtBI-1 is biologically active in suppressing the mammalian Bax action in planta.
!~RES~! We obtained several transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing either Bax or ΔC-Bax (lacking the C-terminal transmembrane domain) under a DEX-inducible promoter (Fig. FIG-REFA). Bax (21.2 kDa) and ΔC-Bax (19.0 kDa) proteins were detected immunologically in transgenic lines (Fig. FIG-REFB). The same protein was not detected in either wild-type or control plants (Luc211), in which a luciferase gene was overexpressed under the same promoter (data not shown). When transgenic 3-week-old Bax2 plants were transferred to a medium containing variable concentration of DEX (0 to 10 μM), etiolation at the whole-plant level was observed at 1 μM DEX and higher, whereas the same was not true for the ΔC–6 line (Fig. FIG-REFC). As shown in Fig. FIG-REFD, within 4 days of Bax2, -17, and -18 lines (3-week-old) being transferred to a medium containing 1 μM DEX, severe discoloration and growth retardation were observed, whereas no such abnormalities were evident in other plants (Luc211 and Bax7, where Bax protein was not produced; see Fig. FIG-REFB). The expression of ΔC-Bax protein in transgenic lines did not affect plant growth. These results suggest that expression of full-length Bax protein is essential for induction of plant cell death. Time course analysis of leaf discoloration after DEX treatment using Bax2 and ΔC-6 lines (3-week-old plants) was also performed. Immunoblot analysis revealed that a small amount of Bax or ΔC-Bax protein was detected as early as 6 h after DEX treatment (Fig. FIG-REFB). As time progressed, Bax protein levels in DEX-treated plants rose and remained high until day 2. Color changes of leaves were apparent in the vicinity of veins and extended to the periphery within 3 days (Fig. FIG-REFA). An extensive fall in total protein level was evident by 2–3 days after DEX treatment. Chlorophyll breakdown was noted until day 4 (Fig. FIG-REFC). A DNA-laddering profile was confirmed in leaves of DEX-treated Bax2 plants after 3 days, whereas no such phenomenon was observed in ΔC-6 plants (Fig. FIG-REFD).  [[FIGURE]] To monitor the intracellular localization of AtBI-1 protein, GFP fused to the C-terminal region of AtBI-1 (AtBI-GFP) was expressed in yeast, and the ability of the fusion protein to suppress cell death was studied. The constructed plasmids pYX112-AtBI-GFP and pYX112-GFP were transformed into the yeast strain QX95001 harboring a galactose-inducible Bax. In addition, plasmids pYX112 and pYX112-AtBI (described in ref. CITATION) were also transformed into the same yeast strain. As shown in Fig. FIG-REFA, when these were plated on the galactose medium, cells transformed with pYX112-AtBI or pYX112-AtBI-GFP survived, whereas cells transformed with empty vectors (pYX112 and pYX112-GFP) did not, confirming that GFP-tagged AtBI-1 conferred sufficient activity to suppress Bax-induced lethality. As shown in Fig. FIG-REFB, AtBI-GFP fluorescence was associated with the perinuclear region.  [[FIGURE]] To express AtBI-GFP in plant cells, the vector Bin-AtBI-GFP was constructed and introduced into tobacco suspension cells (BY2). Transgenic cells expressing the AtBI-GFP fusion protein displayed a distinct fluorescence localization pattern in both perinuclear and reticulate cortical areas, indicative of endoplasmic reticulum (ER; Fig. FIG-REF G and J), which resembled the image obtained in yeast. Treatment of cells with MitoTracker Red disclosed that AtBI-GFP did not always colocalize with mitochondria (Fig. FIG-REFI, more obviously in L). As apparent in Fig. FIG-REFO, AtBI-GFP appeared to be associated with the cell plate and the nuclear membrane during mitosis, where ER is known to be distributed.  [[FIGURE]] The transgenic plant line (Bax2) was retransformed by an Agrobacterium harboring Bin-AtBI-GFP, and new transgenic lines expressing both AtBI-1 and Bax were selected on a medium containing both kanamycin and hygromycin. Bax proteins were detected immunologically in the Bax2 transgenic lines expressing AtBI-GFP at 24 h after 1 μM DEX treatment (Fig. FIG-REFA). Furthermore, these lines exhibited GFP fluorescence in perinuclear and reticulate compartments in the cells (Fig. FIG-REFB), which was identical to the pattern in yeast or BY2 cells. The distribution of AtBI-GFP did not change even after 3 days of 1 μM DEX treatment (data not shown). Accordingly, we were prompted to perform experiments to evaluate the effects of AtBI-1 expression on DEX-induced cell death. As shown in Fig. FIG-REFC, leaf discoloration was suppressed in plants expressing both Bax and AtBI-1, which was also supported by the quantitative estimation of chlorophyll content (Fig. FIG-REFD).  [[FIGURE]] Causal factors associated with plant cell death are considered to be orchestrated by a variety of key genes engaged in defense responses (CITATION). We examined the possibility that such coordination may exist in Bax-induced plant cell death in relation to pathogen-related (PR) gene expression as well as the endogenous AtBI-1 level. As shown in Fig. FIG-REFE, accumulation of Bax mRNA was observed in Bax2, ΔC-9, and Bax2 + AtBI-GFP2 transgenic plants after 1 μM DEX treatment for 1 day. A mRNA for AtBI-GFP driven by the CaMV 35S promoter was detected in the transgenic lines, AtBI-GFP and Bax2 + AtBI-GFP2. Interestingly, the level of endogenous AtBI-1 mRNA was enhanced in Bax2 and Bax2 + AtBI-GFP2 lines. In contrast, we did not observe any apparent differences in the mRNA levels of pathogen-inducible genes (PR1 and PR2). These results indicate that endogenous AtBI-1 mRNA level coordinate with Bax over-expression, however, this could be insufficient to warrant the survival of Bax-expressing plants. Electron microscopic analysis was performed to examine the intracellular morphology of Bax-expressing cells. As shown in Fig. FIG-REF, cytoplasmic shrinkage was apparent in the mesophyll cells of plants expressing Bax (Fig. FIG-REFB), compared with those lacking such expression (Fig. FIG-REFA). The former was characterized by destruction of chloroplasts with impaired lamella structure (Fig. FIG-REF B and E). As shown in Fig. FIG-REF C and F, no such cellular alteration was noted in Bax transgenic plants expressing AtBI-GFP, except an apparent accumulation of starch granules in chloroplasts.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The ORF of mouse Bax (CITATION) was inserted into the DEX-inducible vector pTA7002 (CITATION) (Fig. FIG-REFA). The XhoI and SpeI fragment of pTA7002, which contains sequences encoding the VP16 transactivation domain and a portion of the regulatory region of the rat glucocorticoid receptor, was ligated to the XhoI–SpeI-tagged Bax cDNA. To examine the effect of the C-terminal transmembrane (TM) region of Bax protein, pTA-ΔC-Bax, in which the C-terminal 21 aa were deleted, was also constructed. The resulting constructs, pTA-Bax and pTA-ΔC-Bax, were used for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Col-0, as described by Bechtold et al. (CITATION). Transformants were selected on Murashige–Skoog medium containing hygromycin (20 μg/ml).  [[FIGURE]] Protein extraction and Western blot analysis were performed as described (CITATION). Briefly, total protein (10 μg), electrophoresed on SDS/polyacrylamide gels (15%), was blotted to a poly(vinylidene difluoride) (PVDF) membrane (Immobilon, Millipore), which was then treated with anti-Bax antibody (06-499, Upstate Biotechnology). Bax protein was visualized with the enhanced chemiluminescence (ECL) system (Amersham Pharmacia) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Seedlings treated with or without 1 μM DEX for 3 days were ground in a mortar and pestle with liquid N2 to a fine powder, which was then subjected to the DNA extraction as described (CITATION, CITATION). Ten micrograms of DNA treated with RNase was electrophoresed on a 1.5% agarose gel, stained with ethidium bromide, and photographed on a UV light box. Expression vector pYX112-AtBI-GFP (GFP, green fluorescent protein) was constructed by using the SalI-tagged coding sequence of AtBI-1 cDNA (CITATION) by ligation in the SalI site of cassette vector pTS910-GFP, possessing a 2-μm replicon. The S. cerevisiae strain QX95001, BF264–15Dau (MATα ade1 his2 leu2-3,112 trp1-1a ura3; ref. CITATION) containing the LEU2-marked mouse Bax-encoding plasmid YEp51-Bax (CITATION), was transformed with the plasmids pYX112-GFP and pYX112-AtBI-GFP by the lithium acetate method. The control plasmids, pYX112 and pYX112-AtBI, were also introduced into the yeast as described (CITATION). Ura+ Leu+ transformants were streaked either on a synthetic dropout (SD)-glucose plate or on a SD-galactose plate, and incubated at 30°C. To express the GFP-tagged AtBI-1 in plant cells, the coding sequence of AtBI-1 (CITATION) amplified by PCR was cloned into the SalI site of a GFP cassette plasmid containing the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter and nopaline synthase terminator (CITATION). Subsequently, EcoRI–HindIII fragments were ligated into the EcoRI/HindIII-digested binary vector Bin19, which resulted in Bin-AtBI-GFP. Transformation of tobacco BY2 cells was performed as described by Shaul et al. (CITATION) by using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105. To obtain Arabidopsis plants overexpressing both Bax and AtBI-1, the Bax2 transgenic lines were retransformed with the same Agrobacterium possessing Bin-AtBI-GFP. Transformants were selected on Murashige–Skoog medium containing kanamycin (50 μg/ml). Total RNAs were isolated from transgenic lines by using guanidinium thiocyanate as described (CITATION). Total RNA (10 μg), electrophoresed on a denaturing 1.2% agarose gel, was transferred to a nylon membrane (Biodyne B, Pall), which was then hybridized to the 32P-labeled cDNA fragments (Bax, GFP to detect AtBI-GFP, 3′-untranslated region of AtBI-1 for detection of endogenous AtBI-1, PR1 and PR2) in 10% dextran sulfate/1 M NaCl/1% SDS/100 μg/ml heat-denatured salmon sperm DNA. Washing was performed at high stringency (0.1× standard saline citrate and 0.1% SDS at 65°C). The membrane was analyzed with an imaging plate scanner BAS 1500 (Fuji Film, Tokyo). GFP fluorescence was examined at a 488-nm excitation wavelength under a confocal laser scanning microscope (BX50, Olympus) or under a fluorescence microscope (DMRD, Leica, Wetzlar, Germany). Mitochondria were stained with the fluorescent probe MitoTracker Red (650 nM, Molecular Probes). Stained cells were examined by using excitation light at a wavelength of 568 nm. For electron microscopic analysis, leaf sections obtained from 3-week-old plants treated with 1 μM DEX were fixed in 2.5% glutaraldehyde in cacodylate buffer (pH 7.2), and treated with OsO4. The substituted samples were embedded in Spurr's resin, and thin serial sections were prepared with an Ultracut N or Ultracut S microtome (Reichert, Vienna, Austria). Sections were stained with uranylacetate and lead citrate (UA/Pb) and observed under an electron microscope (Zmodel 2010; JEOL, Akishima-shi, Japan).
