!~ABS~! The plant hormone auxin is central in many aspects of plant development. Previous studies have implicated the ubiquitin-ligase SCFTIR1 and the AUX/IAA proteins in auxin response. Dominant mutations in several AUX/IAA genes confer pleiotropic auxin-related phenotypes, whereas recessive mutations affecting the function of SCFTIR1 decrease auxin response. Here we show that SCFTIR1 is required for AUX/IAA degradation. We demonstrate that SCFTIR1 interacts with AXR2/IAA7 and AXR3/IAA17, and that domain II of these proteins is necessary and sufficient for this interaction. Further, auxin stimulates binding of SCFTIR1 to the AUX/IAA proteins, and their degradation. Because domain II is conserved in nearly all AUX/IAA proteins in Arabidopsis, we propose that auxin promotes the degradation of this large family of transcriptional regulators, leading to diverse downstream effects.
!~RES~! Plant development requires the coordinated regulation of cell division, expansion and differentiation. The plant hormone indole-3-acetic acid (IAA or auxin) is fundamental in regulating many of these processes. Genetic studies in Arabidopsis indicate that regulated protein degradation is required for auxin response. Recessive mutations in AXR1 and TIR1, both components of the ubiquitin-mediated proteolytic pathway, result in reduced auxin response (CITATION) . TIR1 encodes an F-box protein that interacts with the cullin AtCUL1 and a SKP1-like protein (ASK1 or ASK2) to form an SCF ubiquitin protein ligase (E3). On the basis of these results, we proposed that SCFTIR1 targets one or more repressors of auxin response for degradation (CITATION) . AXR1 encodes a subunit of the enzyme that activates the ubiquitin-like protein RUB1 for conjugation to target proteins (CITATION) . One target for RUB1 conjugation is the AtCUL1 subunit of the SCFTIR1 complex, and evidence suggests that modification of cullins by RUB1 is important in regulating activity of SCF ubiquitin-ligases (CITATION) . Studies of the AUX/IAA family of transcriptional regulators have also implicated protein degradation in auxin response. The Arabidopsis thaliana genome contains at least 24 AUX/IAA genes, many of which were identified because of their rapid induction after auxin treatment (CITATION) . The AUX/IAA proteins have a relative molecular mass of 20,000–35,000 (Mr 20K–35K) and share four conserved domains, designated I–IV. Domains III and IV mediate homo- and heterodimerization between AUX/IAA proteins and heterodimerization with members of a second large protein family called the auxin-response factors (ARFs), most of which also contain domains III and IV (CITATION) . The ARF proteins are transcription factors that bind to auxin-response elements (AuxRE) located upstream of auxin-inducible genes (CITATION) . Overexpression of some AUX/IAA genes was found to repress transcription of an AuxRE-reporter in transient transfection assays (CITATION) . Because the AUX/IAA proteins are not known to bind DNA, this negative regulation may occur through interaction with ARF transcription factors. Dominant mutations conferring auxin-related phenotypes have been isolated in several AUX/IAA genes (CITATION) . These mutations all occur within the highly conserved core of domain II of each protein. Domain II has recently been demonstrated to act as a transferable protein degradation signal when fused to luciferase (CITATION) . Furthermore, mutations in domain II equivalent to the dominant mutant alleles of AXR2/IAA7, AXR3/IAA17 and SHY2/IAA3 restored stability to the luciferase fusion protein. Consistent with this finding, pulse-chase experiments reveal that the mutant axr3-1 protein has a half-life about sevenfold greater than its wild-type counterpart (CITATION) . These results indicate that rapid turnover of AUX/IAA proteins is essential for normal auxin response and that the biochemical basis for these dominant mutations is increased protein stability. Here we show that both treatment with a proteasome inhibitor and mutations affecting the SCFTIR1 complex increase stability of AUX/IAA proteins. Furthermore, we demonstrate that SCFTIR1 physically interacts with AUX/IAA proteins. This interaction is mediated by domain II of the AUX/IAA proteins and is abolished by mutations within this motif. Auxin treatment stimulates the interaction between SCFTIR1 and AUX/IAA proteins and promotes their degradation. These data indicate that auxin promotes SCFTIR1-dependent degradation of AUX/IAA proteins. Rapid changes in the levels of individual members of this large family of proteins are likely to result in the diverse downstream effects associated with auxin response.
!~MM~! All lines employed in this study were in the Columbia ecotype. Seedlings were grown under sterile conditions on vertically oriented ATS plates (CITATION) . Seedlings used for protein extractions were grown for 5–7 d in liquid ATS media. We fused the 400-base pair (bp) fragment of the soybean heat-shock promoter HS6871 (ref. 19) N-terminally to GUS (HS::GUS), domains I and II of AXR3 and GUS (HS::AXR3NT–GUS), and domains I and II of axr3-1 and GUS (HS::axr3-1NT–GUS) using the vector pB101.3 (Clontech). The AXR2 coding sequence was cloned into the BamHI site of pBI121 (Clontech). Seedlings were submerged in liquid ATS and heat shocked for 2 h at 37 °C. Plants were sampled at 20, 40, 60 and 80 min thereafter and stored in liquid nitrogen until protein extraction, or in the case of histochemical reactions, assayed immediately. Auxin treatments were performed by adding NAA 20 min after the end of the heat-shock period. GUS activity was measured as previously described (CITATION) . Fluorometric assays were performed by incubating sample extracts in 2 mM MUG (4-methylumbelliferyl-β-d-glucoronide), 50 mM KPO4 (pH 7.0), 0.1% Sarkosyl (BDH), 0.1% Triton X-100, 10 mM β-mercaptoethanol and 10 mM EDTA for 16 h followed by analysis with a Dynex MFX microtitre plate fluorometer. Extracts were prepared from ten seedlings and data were normalized against total protein levels. The AXR2 coding sequence was cloned in-frame into the BamHI site of the GST fusion vector pGEX-2T and introduced into E. coli strain MC1061. Stationary phase cells were diluted tenfold and grown for 1 h at 30 °C before induction with 0.1 mM IPTG. Cells were collected after 4 h of growth, resuspended in PBS buffer with 0.5% Triton X-100, and lysed by sonication. The GST–AXR2 fusion protein was purified and subjected to SDS–PAGE, excised from the gel and injected into a rabbit to generate anti-AXR2 antisera (Cocalico Biologicals). Crude antiserum was affinity purified against nitrocellulose-bound GST–AXR2 fusion protein (CITATION) . Anti-c-myc monoclonal antibody was purchased from BabCo. The anti-ASK2 and anti-AtCUL1 polyclonal antibodies have been previously described (CITATION) . Immunoprecipitations were performed as previously described (CITATION) . For GST–AXR2 and GST–AXR3 pull-down assays, 4 µg of purified fusion protein was added to 2.5 mg of crude Arabidopsis extract prepared from 7-day-old seedlings. Extracts were prepared by homogenizing seedlings in Buffer C (ref. 2) supplemented with 1 mM dithiothreitol, 10 µM MG132, 10 mM β-glycerolphosphate, 1 mM NaF and 1 mM orthovanadate. The resulting homogenate was cleared by microcentrifugation for 15 min. Where indicated, seedlings were treated with 2,4-D before extraction. Following addition of the glutathione–agarose-bound GST fusion protein, extracts were incubated at 4 °C with gentle agitation for 3 h. Glutathione beads were collected by brief centrifugation, washed three times in the above buffer, resuspended in SDS–PAGE sample buffer and subjected to SDS–PAGE electrophoresis and immunoblotting. Seven-day-old seedlings were transferred to 4 ml of ATS medium containing 200 mCi 35S-Trans label (ICN) and grown for 3.5 h. Labelled seedlings were washed and proteins extracted immediately or after a 30-min chase in medium containing 1 mM methionine/cysteine and 100 µg ml-1 cycloheximide. AXR2 was immunoprecipitated with affinity-purified anti-AXR2 antibody as described above. AXR2 half-life (t1/2) was calculated using the formula t1/2 = 0.693t/ln(N0/Nx), where t is time in minutes. N0 and Nx equal the amounts of AXR2 at t = 0 and t = 30 min, respectively. Values presented are the mean of three independent experiments (± s.d.)
