!~ABS~! Plants possess two well described thioredoxin systems: a cytoplasmic system including several thioredoxins and an NADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductase and a specific chloroplastic system characterized by a ferredoxin-dependent thioredoxin reductase. On the basis of biochemical activities, plants also are supposed to have a mitochondrial thioredoxin system as described in yeast and mammals, but no gene encoding plant mitochondrial thioredoxin or thioredoxin reductase has been identified yet. We report the characterization of a plant thioredoxin system located in mitochondria. Arabidopsis thaliana genome sequencing has revealed numerous thioredoxin genes among which we have identified AtTRX-o1, a gene encoding a thioredoxin with a potential mitochondrial transit peptide. AtTRX-o1 and a second gene, AtTRX-o2, define, on the basis of the sequence and intron positions, a new thioredoxin type up to now specific to plants. We also have characterized AtNTRA, a gene encoding a protein highly similar to the previously described cytosolic NADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductase AtNTRB but with a putative presequence for import into mitochondria. Western blot analysis of A. thaliana subcellular and submitochondrial fractions and in vitro import experiments show that AtTRX-o1 and AtNTRA are targeted to the mitochondrial matrix through their cleavable N-terminal signal. The two proteins truncated to the estimated mature forms were produced in Escherichia coli; AtTRX-o1 efficiently reduces insulin in the presence of DTT and is reduced efficiently by AtNTRA and NADPH. Therefore, the thioredoxin and the NADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductase described here are proposed to constitute a functional plant mitochondrial thioredoxin system.
!~RES~! Looking for thioredoxin sequences in the A. thaliana database has led us to identify one gene encoding a thioredoxin with a putative mitochondrial target signal that we have named AtTRX-o1. Two partial EST sequences are found in the database (GenBank accession numbers F14287 and F14419). We have isolated a cDNA encoding the complete coding region corresponding to the annotation of the A. thaliana genome (GenPept accession number AAC12840). The number and positions of the five introns in the thioredoxin domain differ from all other plant thioredoxin genes that have at most two introns (CITATION) and allow us to define AtTRX-o1 as a member of a new thioredoxin class. A second o gene was found in A. thaliana genome, which we named AtTRX-o2. A cDNA obtained by RT-PCR showed that the AtTRX-o2 gene possesses an additional intron in the 5′ coding sequence when compared with AtTRX-o1 (Fig. FIG-REF). Consequently, the N-terminal region of the encoded protein does not have the characteristics of a mitochondrial targeting peptide. The deduced amino acids sequence (GenPept accession number AAK83918) does not correspond to annotation of the A. thaliana genome (GenPept accession number AAF98203) because of an incorrect prediction of 3′ splice site of the second intron. AtTRX-o1 and AtTRX-o2 genes are found on bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clone F19I3 on chromosome II and BAC clone F17F8 on chromosome I of A. thaliana, respectively. These two BAC clones belong to two duplicated regions described previously (CITATION). RNA ligase-mediated rapid amplification of cDNA ends experiments have shown that both AtTRX-o1 and AtTRX-o2 genes present a unique transcription initiation site producing a 5′-untranslated region of 102 and 129 nucleotides, respectively (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] Searches in EST databases have revealed 22 ESTs from plants showing high similarity to AtTRX-o genes. No similar sequence has been found in other organisms. We could reconstitute cDNAs covering the coding region for Lycopersicon esculentum, Glycine max, and Gossypium hirsutum. Only partial proteins could be deduced from EST sequences for Zea mays, Oryza sativa, Saccharum bicolor, and for Saccharum sp. Two different cDNAs are found in both G. max and Triticum aestivum. This analysis suggests that these thioredoxin genes belong to a small multigenic family present only in plants. We have constructed a phylogenic tree by using the program darwin (CITATION) with most A. thaliana thioredoxins and some plant thioredoxin sequences homologous to AtTRX-o. It confirms that thioredoxins o (o for organelle) constitute a new type of plant thioredoxins (Fig. FIG-REF).  [[FIGURE]] The isolation and characterization of an A. thaliana cDNA clone called ATTHIREDB and renamed AtNTRB (GenBank accession number Z23109), encoding a cytosolic NADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductase, have been reported previously (CITATION). A similar cDNA clone (GenBank accession number Z23108) containing only a partial ORF of 1,148 nucleotides was described. In the A. thaliana genome, we have identified the corresponding gene that we renamed AtNTRA. Both AtNTRA and AtNTRB genes possess a unique large intron (726 and 395 nucleotides long, respectively). AtNTRA encodes a protein with an N-terminal extension of 50 amino acids when compared with AtNTRB (Fig. FIG-REF). In the conserved region, the two proteins share 89% identity. As for AtTRX-o genes, AtNTRA and AtNTRB genes are located on two duplicated regions; AtNTRA is found on BAC clone F5J6 on chromosome II, and AtNTRB is found on BAC clone F15J1 on chromosome IV. By rapid amplification of cDNA ends experiments two 5′ transcript extremities were found for AtNTRA. One is situated only 5 nucleotides upstream of the first ATG and corresponds to ESTs found in the database. The second 5′ extremity is located 114 nucleotides upstream of the ATG.  [[FIGURE]] The two N-terminal domains of AtTRX-o1 and AtNTRA are characteristic of mitochondrial targeting sequences (CITATION); they have a high content of basic and hydroxylated residues but few acidic and aromatic residues, and their first 20 amino acids can form an amphiphilic α-helix. Remarkably, serine content is particularly high, a distinct feature of plant presequences (CITATION). Prediction of protein localization by the different programs PSORT (CITATION), PREDOTAR 0.5 (www.inra.fr/Internet/Produits/Predotar/), and TARGETP (CITATION) gives a high probability of mitochondrial localization for both proteins. The three thioredoxins o deduced from ESTs from L. esculentum, G. max, and G. hirsutum also present an N-terminal extension and are predicted to be targeted to the mitochondria (Table 2, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). In contrast, because of the additional intron in the 5′-coding region corresponding to the AtTRX-o1 amphiphilic α-helix, cellular localization predictions for AtTRX-o2 remain unclear. Antibodies directed against AtTRX-o1(Glu-83–Lys-194) and AtNTRB proteins were used to analyze subcellular fractions of A. thaliana protoplasts. The anti-AtTRX-o1 antibody recognizes AtTRX-o1 and AtTRX-o2 recombinant proteins with similar efficiency (data not shown). Anti-AtTRX-o1 antibodies recognize a single 13.5-kDa band present in the mitochondrial fraction but neither in cytosolic nor in chloroplastic fractions prepared from A. thaliana protoplasts (Fig. FIG-REF). The absence of signal in these fractions demonstrates that anti-AtTRX-o antibodies do not cross react with cytosolic or chloroplastic thioredoxins and are specific for AtTRX-o proteins in A. thaliana protoplasts. Conversely, anti-AtTRX-h3 antibodies only recognize a cytosolic protein of a similar apparent molecular mass.  [[FIGURE]] Anti-AtNTRB antibodies recognize both AtNTRA and AtNTRB recombinant proteins (data not shown). Anti-AtNTRB antibodies reveal a 35-kDa band in total protoplast and cytosolic extracts (Fig. FIG-REF, lanes 1–2). In the mitochondrial fraction, anti-AtNTRB antibodies react with a 38-kDa protein. No signal was obtained in the chloroplast fraction. The antibodies allow the identification of two thioredoxin reductase proteins, a cytosolic enzyme of 35 kDa, and a mitochondrial one of 38 kDa apparent molecular masses. The relative amount of cytosolic versus mitochondrial proteins in the total protoplast extract do not allow the detection of mitochondrial proteins as shown for NAD9, a subunit of NADH dehydrogenase. This is not the case with a very abundant chloroplastic protein such as the large subunit of the ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase, which can be detected in total protoplast extract. No contamination could be detected between the different protoplast fractions with the antibodies used (Fig. FIG-REF). Because the antibodies used cannot discriminate between AtTRX-o1 and AtTRX-o2, the origin of the signal observed on Western blots was not assessed. Therefore we tried to import the two radiolabeled proteins in vitro into mitochondria. When translated in vitro, AtTRX-o1 and AtTRX-o2 products are expressed as proteins of 25- and 17-kDa apparent molecular masses, respectively (Fig. FIG-REF). After incubation of AtTRX-o1 precursor with mitochondria, a 13.5-kDa band appeared, whereas no processed band is detected in the case of AtTRX-o2. The unprocessed AtTRX-o2 is bound to mitochondria, but the protein is not resistant to proteinase K, indicating that AtTRX-o2 is not imported into mitochondria. Conversely, the 13.5-kDa protein is resistant to proteinase K, and the protection is abolished when mitochondrial membranes are solubilized with Triton before proteinase K treatment. AtTRX-o1 import is inhibited when the electrochemical membrane potential is abolished in the presence of the ionophore valinomycin. The mature AtTRX-o1 protein obtained after in vitro import corresponds to the 13.5-kDa protein immunodetected in A. thaliana mitochondria. Because mature AtTRX-o1 and AtTRX-h3 have the same apparent molecular masses, a maturation at an “R-2” cleavage motif RRSL present at position 73–76 could be proposed.  [[FIGURE]] Similarly, we tested whether AtNTRA encodes a precursor processed after import. Two major proteins of 43 and 36.5 kDa were obtained by in vitro coupled transcription/translation of an AtNTRA cDNA corresponding to the short RNA form (Fig. FIG-REF). Both proteins can be immunoprecipitated by using anti-AtNTRB antibodies (data not shown) and most likely correspond to translation from the first and third ATG. The smaller protein migrates at the same position as the cytosolic protein immunodetected in A. thaliana. After incubation of the translation products with mitochondria, a signal corresponding to a 38.5-kDa protein resistant to proteinase K appeared. The protection is abolished when the mitochondria are treated with Triton. The in vitro processed protein migrates at the same position as the endogenous A. thaliana mitochondrial protein detected by anti-AtNTRB antibodies. Most of the precursor protein and the totality of the 36.5-kDa protein are degraded by proteinase K treatment. AtNTRA import depends on the membrane potential. The 4.5-kDa shift between the precursor and the mature AtNTRA proteins suggests a cleavage site in the serine stretch (Ser-40–48). To determine the location of AtTRX-o1 and AtNTRA in mitochondria we prepared mitoplasts and separated the proteins into soluble and membrane fractions. Both AtTRX-o1 and AtNTRA are found in the soluble fraction (Fig. FIG-REF). The fact that no salt was used during the procedure indicates that the proteins are truly soluble proteins from the matrix and not proteins bound to either side of the inner mitochondrial membrane.  [[FIGURE]] AtTRX-o1(Glu-83–Lys-194), AtTRX-o2(Asp-47–Lys-159), and AtNTRA(Glu-55–Asp-383) recombinant proteins were produced in E. coli. Both AtTRX-o1 and AtTRX-o2 are able to reduce the insulin-disulfide bridges with DTT as reducing power (data not shown). The AtTRX-o1 precursor protein does not show a greater reducing activity, suggesting that there is no determinant for enzymatic activity in the N-terminal region deleted in the recombinant proteins (data not shown). We also have analyzed the activity of the thioredoxin system constituted by the AtTRX-o1 protein and the AtNTRA thioredoxin reductase in the insulin reduction assay. AtTRX-o1 and AtNTRA efficiently reduce insulin disulfide in an NADPH-dependent process in vitro, demonstrating that these two proteins can form an active thioredoxin system (Fig. FIG-REFA). In addition, we have evaluated the activity of AtTRX-o1 in association with AtNTRB and compared it to thioredoxin systems with AtTRX-o2 and cytosolic AtTRX-h3 (Fig. FIG-REF A and B). All systems reduced insulin nearly as efficiently except that AtNTRB presents a slightly higher Km for AtTRX-h3, showing that neither AtNTRA nor AtNTRB have a significantly greater affinity for AtTRX-o1 or AtTRX-o2 (Fig. FIG-REFC).  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! On the basis of known genomic and expressed sequence tag (EST) sequences, we designed primers to isolate each gene by PCR on A. thaliana (ecotype Columbia) genomic DNA and its corresponding cDNAs by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR from flower bud mRNAs. The PCR products were cloned into the pGEM-T Easy Vector system I (Promega) and sequenced. The identification of transcription initiation sites was determined by the RNA ligase-mediated rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RLM-RACE) method. RLM-RACE was achieved from flower bud total RNAs as recommended by the provider (Ambion, Austin, TX) with some modifications. RT was achieved with oligo(dT) primers and MMLV reverse transcriptase by using the ProSTAR First Strand RT-PCR kit (Stratagene). For the determination of the 5′ extremity of the large AtNTRA transcript, cDNA synthesis was carried out at 55°C with gene-specific primers using the SUPERSCRIPT RT-PCR system (Invitrogen). Nested PCRs were achieved with the provided adapter-specific primers in combination with gene-specific primers. Primer combinations can be found in Table 1, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site, www.pnas.org. Partial cDNAs were cloned into the NdeI/BamHI sites of the pET16b expression vector (Novagen) to produce AtTRX-o1(Glu-83–Lys-194), AtTRX-o2(Asp-47–Lys-159), and AtNTRA(Glu-55–Asp-383) His-tagged recombinant proteins. E. coli BL21 strains were cotransformed with the different constructs and pSBET plasmid, and recombinant protein expression was induced by the addition of 1 mM isopropyl-1-thio-β-D-galactopyranoside for 3 h at 37°C. His-tagged recombinant proteins were purified on Ni2+ columns as described (CITATION) and then washed with 0.1 M potassium phosphate (pH 7.0) by ultrafiltration on Microcon columns (Amicon–Millipore). A. thaliana protoplasts were prepared from 3–4-day-old suspension cell cultures as described (CITATION). Typically, protoplasts obtained from a 500-ml culture were resuspended in 50 ml of extraction buffer (400 mM sucrose, 50 mM Tris⋅HCl, pH 7.5, 3 mM EDTA, 0.1% BSA, and 2 mM DTT) and disrupted by filtrations through nylon meshes. Cell debris were eliminated by centrifugation for 5 min at 100 × g, and the supernatant was recentrifuged for 10 min at 2,000 × g. The chloroplast-enriched pellet was collected and purified as described (CITATION), and the supernatant was centrifuged at 16,000 × g for 15 min to pellet mitochondria. The supernatant (cytosol) was stored for further analysis. The mitochondrial pellets were purified on 18–23-40% Percoll step gradients. The mitochondria were collected at the 23–40% interface and washed in the extraction buffer without BSA and DTT. All fractions were frozen at −80°C before SDS/PAGE. Mitoplasts were purified as described (CITATION) with slight modifications. Crude mitochondria obtained as described above were resuspended in the swelling buffer to a final protein concentration of 4 mg/ml. The suspension then was loaded on a 15–32-60% sucrose step gradient and spun for 60 min at 33,000 rpm in a TST41 swing rotor (Kontron, Zurich). Mitoplasts were collected at the 32/60% interface. The membrane and soluble fractions of mitoplasts were recovered in a 100,000 × g pellet and supernatant, respectively, as described (CITATION). Proteins were separated by SDS/PAGE and transferred to Immobilon-P membranes (Amersham Pharmacia). Western blots with rabbit polyclonal antibodies against AtTRX-o1 and AtNTRB were performed at a dilution of 1:5,000 and 1:10,000, respectively. Goat anti-rabbit antibodies conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (Amersham Pharmacia) were used as secondary antibodies and revealed with enhanced chemiluminescence reagents (Amersham Pharmacia). Antibodies directed against spinach large subunit of ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase (a gift from B. Camara, Institut de Biologie Moléculaire des Plantes-Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Strasbourg, France) and A. thaliana thioredoxin h3 (AtTRX-h3) were used as control for the chloroplast and cytosolic fractions, respectively. Antibodies directed against tobacco manganese superoxide dismutase (ref. CITATION; obtained from F. van Breusegem, Gent, Belgium) and wheat subunit 9 of NADH dehydrogenase (CITATION) were used as control matrix and inner membrane protein fractions of mitochondria, respectively. Mitochondria were isolated from potato tubers (Solanum tuberosum var. Bintje) with a juice extractor as described (CITATION). Proteins were synthesized from the corresponding cDNA clones in pGEM-T vector by coupled transcription/translation in the presence of [35S]methionine according the supplier's instructions (Promega). Import assays were carried out as described (CITATION). Thioredoxin activity was determined by using the insulin-disulphide reduction assay as described (CITATION). Briefly, recombinant thioredoxin was used at a final concentration of 1, 2.5, 5, or 10 μM in 1 ml of 0.1 M potassium phosphate (pH 7.0), 2 mM EDTA, 0.13 mM bovine insulin, and in first experiments 0.33 mM DTT as reductant. The same buffer without DTT was used as reference. Thioredoxin activity was measured at 20°C and defined as the maximal increase rate of turbidity at OD at 650 nm due to insulin precipitation. The activity of AtTRX-o1 and AtTRX-o2 with thioredoxin reductases and NADPH (0.5 mM) as reductant was assayed with low concentrations of thioredoxin reductase (50 nM), allowing obtention of saturation Michaelis–Menten kinetics and determination of their affinities for the different thioredoxins. Protein concentration was determined by using the Bio-Rad protein assay kit with BSA as standard.
