!~ABS~! Most chloroplast and mitochondrial proteins are synthesized with N-terminal presequences that direct their import into the appropriate organelle. In this report we have analyzed the specificity of standard in vitro assays for import into isolated pea chloroplasts and mitochondria. We find that chloroplast protein import is highly specific because mitochondrial proteins are not imported to any detectable levels. Surprisingly, however, pea mitochondria import a range of chloroplast protein precursors with the same efficiency as chloroplasts, including those of plastocyanin, the 33-kDa photosystem II protein, Hcf136, and coproporphyrinogen III oxidase. These import reactions are dependent on the Δϕ across the inner mitochondrial membrane, and furthermore, marker enzyme assays and Western blotting studies exclude any import by contaminating chloroplasts in the preparation. The pea mitochondria specifically recognize information in the chloroplast-targeting presequences, because they also import a fusion comprising the presequence of coproporphyrinogen III oxidase linked to green fluorescent protein. However, the same construct is targeted exclusively into chloroplastsin vivo indicating that the in vitromitochondrial import reactions are unphysiological, possibly because essential specificity factors are absent in these assays. Finally, we show that disruption of potential amphipathic helices in one presequence does not block import into pea mitochondria, indicating that other features are recognized. 
!~RES~! Previous studies (CITATION) had shown that pea GR is targeted to both chloroplasts and mitochondria in vivo, and the original objective of this study was to characterize further this process using in vitro assays for the import of proteins by isolated chloroplasts and mitochondria. A principal aim was to test the importance of an amphipathic helix for the mitochondrial targeting process. The presequence for pea GR is in general more characteristic of chloroplast-targeted proteins than those of mitochondria, being relatively long (about 60 residues), and enriched in hydroxylated amino acids. However, the helical wheel projection shown in Fig.1 indicates that two short amphipathic regions can form, if the presequence adopts a helical structure.  [[FIGURE]] The precursor of GR (pGR) was synthesized in vitro by transcription of a cDNA clone (TableI) followed by translation in a reticulocyte lysate system in the presence of [35S]methionine/cysteine. The precursor was then incubated with isolated pea chloroplasts (Fig.2, left-hand panels). It can be seen that the 62-kDa precursor protein is imported and processed to the predicted size of the mature protein (54 kDa) and that it is located almost exclusively in the stroma, which is consistent with the observation that the enzyme activity is soluble (CITATION). The precursor is also imported and processed by isolated pea mitochondria (Fig. 2,right-hand panels), as expected given the in vivodata described above.  [[FIGURE]] As positive controls for the import reactions, we incubated the organelles with precursors to the mitochondrial alternative oxidase (AOX (CITATION)) and the major light-harvesting chlorophyll-binding protein (Lhcb1 (CITATION)) of the chloroplast thylakoid membrane. As expected, the 36-kDa precursor of AOX (pAOX) was found to be imported only into mitochondria, whereas the 30-kDa pLhcb1 was targeted only into chloroplasts (Fig. 2). This indicates that our organelle preparations do not contain significant contamination of the other organelle, an observation supported by other studies (see below).  Whereas the AOX and Lhcb1 precursors are often used as substrates for mitochondrial/chloroplast import assays, we also analyzed other precursor proteins as controls for the import, principally to check for cross-contamination of the purified chloroplast preparations with mitochondria and vice versa. The substrates used were the 33-kDa subunit of the oxygen-evolving complex (33K (CITATION)), plastocyanin (PC), Hcf136, a protein involved in the assembly of Photosystem II (CITATION), and the tetrapyrrole biosynthesis enzyme CPO, which is located in the chloroplast stroma (CITATION). The origin of the cDNAs and the constructs used to generate radiolabeled precursor proteins for each of these are listed in TableI.  Fig. 3 shows that, as expected, all four proteins are imported into chloroplasts (left-hand panels), processed to the mature size, and targeted correctly within the organelle. 33K, Hcf136, and plastocyanin are thylakoid lumen proteins and are hence found primarily in the thylakoid fraction (lanes T), although the stromal intermediate of Hcf136 is also apparent (int). CPO is targeted into the stroma (lane S). However, quite unexpectedly, all four precursors were also imported into isolated pea mitochondria (Fig. 3, right-hand panels). p33K is imported and processed by the mitochondria to an intermediate size product (33K*) that runs as a 35-kDa protein. pHcf136 is converted to two products of similar sizes to those found in chloroplasts, and pCPO is processed to a protein of similar size (denoted CPO*) to the mature protein generated by chloroplasts. Pre-plastocyanin is readily imported by mitochondria and processed exclusively to an intermediate size band (PC*) that runs almost exactly between the precursor and mature size PC proteins (not shown).  [[FIGURE]] Several points can be drawn from these and other data. First, these chloroplast proteins are imported by the pea mitochondria with the same efficiency as into chloroplasts. Second, we have found other chloroplast proteins are also imported by isolated mitochondria, including glutathione peroxidase (CITATION) and the 23-kDa subunit of the oxygen-evolving complex (data not shown). This means that several different chloroplast proteins, including stromal, extrinsic thylakoid, and thylakoid lumen proteins, can be imported by plant mitochondria. Finally, although most of the experiments were carried out using mitochondria from pea leaves, similar import characteristics were observed for mitochondria isolated from maize leaves and potato tubers.2Nevertheless, it should be emphasized that several chloroplast precursor proteins are not imported into mitochondria, including porphobilinogen deaminase (CITATION), ferrochelatase-II (CITATION), and Lhcb1 (Fig. 2).  To demonstrate that the lack of precursor specificity seen in the in vitro mitochondrial import assays was not due to contamination with chloroplasts, further experiments were conducted. First, we made a precise measurement of the chloroplast contamination in the mitochondrial preparation. In chloroplast import experiments, the organelles were added to give a final chlorophyll concentration of 0.33 mg/ml. The mitochondrial import mixture used in Fig. 3 was found to have a chlorophyll concentration of 0.05 μg/ml, i.e. the chloroplast content is less than 0.01% that of the chloroplast suspension. The organelle fractions were also assayed for the mitochondrial and chloroplast marker enzymes, cytochrome c oxidase, and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, respectively. In fact, no glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity was detected in the mitochondrion fractions, and only very low levels of cytochrome c oxidase activity were detected in the chloroplast fractions (data not shown).  Second, purified mitochondrial and chloroplast preparations were serially diluted, and the samples were analyzed by Western blot with a mixture of antibodies raised against the 23-kDa protein (23K) of the oxygen-evolving complex of photosystem II and the F1β-subunit of the mitochondrial ATPase. The import assays shown in Fig. 3 contained mitochondria or chloroplasts at an equivalent protein concentration, and we used Western blotting to assess the cross-contamination in these preparations (Fig.4). Lanes M and Care samples of 0.125 mg/ml protein of mitochondria and chloroplasts, respectively. The data show that the 23K antibodies recognize a single protein, whereas the F1β-subunit antibodies recognize the F1β-subunit (in lane M) and also the slightly smaller CF1β-subunit of the thylakoidal ATP synthase inlane C. Importantly, the 23K antibodies do not recognize any protein in the mitochondrial samples, even at the highest protein concentration, whereas the 23K protein is recognized in chloroplast samples even after 64-fold dilution. These data confirm that the chloroplast concentration in the mitochondrial samples is very low indeed.  [[FIGURE]] Finally, we carried out chloroplast import assays at the same concentration of chlorophyll as that found contaminating the mitochondrial preparations, under the conditions used in the mitochondrial in vitro import assay. Fig.5 shows that p33K is not imported into chloroplasts when the organelles are diluted to 0.05 μg/ml chlorophyll, although efficient import was observed in the standard import assay (0.33 mg/ml chlorophyll). This demonstrates that the few chloroplasts contaminating the mitochondrial preparation could not possibly be responsible for the observed efficient import of chloroplast proteins.  [[FIGURE]] Although plant mitochondria are clearly capable of importing a wide range of chloroplast proteins, the reverse is not the case. In numerous experiments we observed no import whatsoever of pAOX into chloroplasts even at high concentration (0.33 mg/ml chlorophyll) and under either chloroplast or mitochondrial import assay conditions (data not shown), although pAOX was shown in this study (Fig. 2) and previously (CITATION) to be imported into mitochondria. Furthermore, we observed no import of other mitochondrial precursor proteins, including NAD malic enzyme and the adenine nucleotide carrier (Ref. CITATION and data not shown). These results indicate that the chloroplast in vitro import assay is highly specific.  Other studies indicate that the energetic requirements of the chloroplast and mitochondrial import processes are significantly different. The potassium ionophore, valinomycin, was found to inhibit completely the import of both mitochondrial and chloroplast proteins into mitochondria (data not shown). This dissipates the membrane potential (Δϕ) across the inner mitochondrial membrane, which then blocks mitochondrial protein import (CITATION) but does not affect chloroplast import (CITATION). Again, this shows that the mitochondria are able to import chloroplast proteins, and the data furthermore suggest that the usual inner membrane import machinery may be involved because this machinery depends on an electrical potential.  The data shown above demonstrate that a range of chloroplast proteins is imported by plant mitochondria with the same efficiency as into chloroplasts. It appeared unlikely that these proteins are all imported into mitochondria in vivo because PC, Hcf136, and 33K are involved in the light-dependent reactions of photosynthesis and thus would not be expected to function in mitochondria. One possible explanation was that these proteins are imported by mitochondria in vivo but are then degraded. Although this seemed unlikely to us, to address this possibility we used fusions to GFP to study the targeting in vivo. This marker protein is highly stable and can be targeted into either chloroplasts or plant mitochondria in vivo by attaching an appropriate targeting signal. Significantly, import into both organelles was observed using the dual-targeting presequence of aminoacyl-tRNA-synthetases (CITATION). We therefore tested one of the plastid proteins found to import into isolated mitochondria, and we fused the cDNA encoding the complete precursor for CPO, and that for just the presequence, to the coding sequence for GFP. As a control, we used the transit peptide for the dual-targeted histidyl-tRNA synthetase (AtHRS) fromArabidopsis (CITATION). All constructs were under the control of the CaMV35S promoter. They were introduced into tobacco leaf guard cells via particle bombardment, and then the GFP fluorescence was visualized by confocal microscopy. As can be seen in Fig.6, viewed 18 h after bombardment, the AtHRS leader sequence targeted GFP to two sorts of organelles. The large oval ones are chloroplasts, because the GFP fluorescence coincides exactly with that for chlorophyll. The smaller punctate organelles are the size and morphology of mitochondria. In contrast, both CPO-GFP fusions were targeted exclusively to chloroplasts. Several independently transformed cells were examined, both guard cells and epidermal cells, and in no case was any mitochondrial targeting detectable. It remained possible however, that the GFP passenger protein was interfering with targeting to mitochondria, so to test this we carried out an import experiment with the CPOleader-GFP fusion protein. Fig. 7 shows that it was imported in vitro into both chloroplasts and mitochondria with similar efficiency. Thus, although CPO-GFP was not targeted to mitochondria in vivo, it was imported into mitochondriain vitro, demonstrating that the in vitromitochondrial import system lacks specificity.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] One of the proposed characteristics of mitochondrial targeting regions is the presence of an amphipathic α-helix (CITATION). The presequence of GR has been shown previously to target both the mature GR protein and the reporter enzyme phosphinothricin acetyltransferase (PAT) to mitochondria and chloroplasts in vivo (CITATION). When the presequence was mapped onto a helical wheel projection (CITATION), in which positively charged residues are aligned on one side of the projection if the protein has amphipathic α-helical properties (Fig. 1), two clusters of positively charged residues were seen on either side of the projection. Several of these residues were found to be conserved when the presequences of GR proteins from pea, tobacco, soybean, andArabidopsis were aligned (data not shown). To analyze the effects of positive residues in the GR presequence on import into mitochondria and chloroplasts in vitro, several mutants were made in which these residues were changed individually, or in multiples, to alanine, using site-directed mutagenesis. These were then tested in import experiments (Fig. 8). The wild type GR presequence fused to PAT (GRPAT) was imported into and processed within a protease-protected location in both organelles. The mature PAT protein was present in the chloroplast stroma; therefore, the GR presequence does not contain any thylakoid targeting information. All of the mutant GRPAT precursors were found to be imported into and processed within both organelles. When the import samples were run side by side on the same gel, the mature bands seen in the mitochondrion and chloroplast fractions were slightly different sizes, in agreement with previous data.3 This result suggests that the organelle preparations were not cross-contaminated, otherwise more than one band would be seen in each processed fraction. Processing of the precursors was not predicted to be affected by altering these positive residues, according to the predicted cleavage sites proposed for mitochondrial and chloroplastic proteins (CITATION, CITATION). Some differences between the different precursor proteins were observed in this particular experiment. For example, there appears to be some reduction of import of the K27A/R33A double mutant into mitochondria and possibly also of R33A. In addition, there was increased accumulation of the R20A precursor at the surface of the mitochondria compared with other precursors. However, we repeated the imports several times and did not always observe these effects. Our overall conclusion is that none of the mutations have a significant effect on the import efficiency.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! PRO-MixTM l-[35S]methionine/cysteine (>1000 Ci/mmol) was purchased from Amersham Biosciences. The Riboprobe® Systems, RNA polymerases, and RNasin were supplied by Promega. Thermolysin was from Sigma, and proteinase K was from BDH. m7G Cap analog was obtained from Roche Molecular Biochemicals. Table I details the source of plasmids encoding the cDNAs for the precursor proteins used in this study. Peas (Pisum sativum L.) var. feltham first were obtained from local seed merchants and grown as described previously (CITATION).  [[TABLE]] The synthesis of transcripts in vitro was carried out using the Riboprobe® Systems from Promega Corp. (Madison, WI) according to the manufacturer's instructions but with some minor changes. Transcription of mRNA from a plasmid template was carried out in 1× transcription buffer (supplied by Promega Corp.) with the addition of 40 units of RNasin, 10 mm dithiothreitol, 1 mmATP, 1 mm CTP, 0.8 mm GTP, 1 mmUTP, 0.5 mm m7G Cap analog, and 20 units of RNA polymerase. The mixture was incubated for an initial 30 min at 37 °C. After the 30-min preincubation, GTP was added to a final concentration of 0.7 mm, and the mixture was incubated for another 30 min. The transcription mixture was extracted with an equal volume of phenol:chloroform (1:1), before being precipitated with 2.5 volumes of 100% v/v ethanol in the presence of 0.5 volume of 7.5m ammonium acetate. Translation of the transcripts was carried out in 50% v/v rabbit reticulocyte lysate (Promega), 0.05 mm amino acid mixture (minus methionine and cysteine), 40 units of RNasin, and 11 μCi of PRO-MixTM l-[35S]methionine/cysteine (Amersham Biosciences). The mixture was incubated at 30 °C for 1 h to allow translation to take place. The resultant radiolabeled proteins were used immediately for import assays.  Chloroplasts were isolated from 7- to 8-day-old peas as described (CITATION), and mitochondria were isolated from 10- to 12-day-old peas as described (CITATION) with some minor changes. Instead of two washes, the isolated mitochondria were washed once with RM-I buffer before finally being resuspended in 0.4 ml of RM-I buffer. Mitochondrial import reactions contained 50 μg of protein in a 200-μl reaction. The import assay into isolated mitochondria was adapted from Ref. CITATION. The incubation buffer also contained 10 mm malate, 5 mmmethionine, 5 mm cysteine, 5 mm ATP, and 20 μm ADP. Freshly isolated mitochondria, equivalent to 100–200 μg of protein, were resuspended in import buffer, and then 9% v/v translation products were added. The assay was allowed to proceed for 30 min at 25 °C. At the end of incubation, the import mixture was diluted if required with RM-I buffer before being divided into two equal portions. One portion was directly layered onto a 20% w/v sucrose cushion, and mitochondria were reisolated by centrifugation at top speed for 5 min in a microcentrifuge at 4 °C. The other half was treated with 200 μg/ml proteinase K, incubated at 4 °C for 40 min, followed by the addition of 2 mmphenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride to terminate the activity of the protease. The mitochondria were then reisolated as above. The mitochondria of both protease-treated and -untreated portions were washed once with 1 ml of RM-I buffer before lysing them in 20 mm TES-NaOH, pH 7.2. The lysed mitochondria were dissolved in 1× SDS loading buffer and then stored at −70 °C until analysis. When used, 10 μm valinomycin was added to the mitochondria prior to addition of the translation product. Samples were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and fluorography as described (CITATION).  The protocols for assaying the import of precursors into isolated chloroplasts were essentially the same as those described previously (CITATION) with some modifications. In the import buffer, 6–9% v/v translation products were used instead of 5%, and at the end of the reaction, 5 mm cysteine was added as well as unlabeled methionine. The mixture was incubated at 25 °C for 30 min instead of 40 min under continuous illumination. After import, the chloroplasts were fractionated as described.  A serial dilution of mitochondrion and chloroplast preparations was set up, starting with 1 mg·ml−1 protein and diluting 2-fold to a final concentration of 0.008 mg·ml−1 protein. A 20-μl aliquot of each dilution was electrophoresed on 17% (v/v) SDS-acrylamide gels. Proteins were transferred to nitrocellulose prior to blocking overnight in 10% Marvel milk in 0.1% PBST. Blots were then probed with an antibody raised against the 23K protein of the oxygen-evolving complex of photosystem two (1:1000 dilution in 0.1% PBST) or against the F1β-subunit of the mitochondrial ATPase (1:500 dilution in 0.1% PBST) according to the protocol ECL-Western blotting available on the internet at www.biol.rug.nl/lacto/protocols/westernecl.html. The secondary antibody used was anti-rabbit conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (1:10000 dilution in 0.1% PBST), and the bands were detected using chemiluminescence.  Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity was measured using a method based on the protocol of Wu and Racker (CITATION) in an assay containing 0.1 m HEPES, pH 7.9; 0.25 mm NADPH; 9 mm MgCl2; 3 mm ATP; 25 units of phosphoglycerate phosphokinase (EC2.7.2.3); 5 mm 3-phosphoglycerate. The change in absorbance at 340 nm was measured at 25 °C for 5 min. The cytochromec oxidase assay was modified from the protocol of Tolbert (CITATION). Cytochrome c was reduced by adding sodium dithionite until the ratio of the absorbances at 550 and 565 nm was equal to 10 ± 0.5. The assay mix consisted of 250 μg·ml−1reduced cytochrome c, 100 mm sodium phosphate buffer, and 0.01% (v/v) Triton X-100. The initial change in absorbance was measured at 550 nm and 25 °C. The concentration of chlorophyll was determined using the protocol of Arnon (CITATION).  Constructs encoding the full-length protein coding sequence for CPO (CPOfull) or the first 92 amino acids (CPOleader) were generated by PCR amplification from the full-length cDNA encoding CPO-I from Arabidopsis (CITATION), using as forward primer AtCPO-I.fwd (5′-ATAGGATCCATGGCTTCTCACTCGTCG-3′) and either AtCPO-I.rev2 (5′-ATAGGATCCCGATCCACTCCTTCGGGTTG-3′) or AtCPO-I.tprev (5′-TATGGATCCCTTGAGCAGCCCTAATCATAG-3′), respectively. The PCR products were cloned into the BamHI sites in psmRSGFP (CITATION) to generate fusions to the coding sequence for solubility-modified, red-shifted green fluorescent protein, under the regulation of the CaMV35S promoter and the nopaline synthase terminator. The fidelity of PCR amplification and the fusion junctions were checked by sequencing. The plasmids were named pAtCIf-GFP.UC118 and pAtCIld-GFP.UC118. A construct encoding the transit peptide of the dual-targetedArabidopsis histidyl-tRS fused to GFP (14; a gift from Dr Ian Small, INRA, Evry, France) was used as a control.  The constructs were introduced into tobacco leaf guard cells via particle bombardment using a PDS-1000/He System (Bio-Rad). Young tobacco leaves were placed on a piece of wetted Whatman filter paper in a 9-cm Petri dish. The leaves were then bombarded with DNA-coated M-10 tungsten particles (Bio-Rad) at a target distance of 9 cm. The tungsten particles were delivered at a helium pressure of 1,350 pounds/square inch and a chamber vacuum of 28 inches of mercury. The bombarded tissues were incubated under constant white light for about 16–18 h before being analyzed under a Leica TCS SP confocal microscope. An argon ion laser line of 488 nm was used to excite both the GFP fluorophore and the chlorophyll. The emission spectra of the excited GFP and the chlorophyll autofluorescence were collected between 500 and 515 nm (fluorescein isothiocyanate settings) and 630–670 nm (tetramethylrhodamine B isothiocyanate settings), respectively, in two separate channels. The recorded digital images were then imported and graphically enhanced using the Adobe® Photoshop®5.5 program.  Positively charged arginine residues at positions 20, 33, and 54 in the GR presequence were changed to alanine using a method based on the inverse PCR protocol outlined in Hemsley et al. (CITATION). To change the GRPAT lysine residue at position 27 to alanine, in vitrosite-directed mutagenesis was carried out using the QuikChangeTM Site-directed Mutagenesis Kit (Stratagene) andEpicurian coli (L.) XL1-Blue supercompetent cells (Stratagene). 
