!~ABS~! The 26S proteasome plays a major role in eukaryotic protein breakdown, especially for ubiquitin‐tagged proteins. Substrate specificity is conferred by the regulatory particle (RP), which can dissociate into stable lid and base subcomplexes. To help define the molecular organization of the RP, we tested all possible paired interactions among subunits from Saccharomyces cerevisiae by yeast two‐hybrid analysis. Within the base, a Rpt4/5/3/6 interaction cluster was evident. Within the lid, a structural cluster formed around Rpn5/11/9/8. Interactions were detected among synonymous subunits (Csn4/5/7/6) from the evolutionarily related COP9 signalosome (CSN) from Arabidopsis, implying a similar quaternary arrangement. No paired interactions were detected between lid, base or core particle subcomplexes, suggesting that stable contacts between them require prior assembly. Mutational analysis defined the ATPase, coiled‐coil, PCI and MPN domains as important for RP assembly. A single residue in the vWA domain of Rpn10 is essential for amino acid analog resistance, for degrading a ubiquitin fusion degradation substrate and for stabilizing lid—base association. Comprehensive subunit interaction maps for the 26S proteasome and CSN support the ancestral relationship of these two complexes.
!~RES~! To help define interactions among the RP subunits, we tested all possible combinations of the 17 yeast RP subunits (Rpt1–6, and Rpn1–3 and 5–12) by a GALl4‐based Y2H method (CITATION). Rpn4 is not considered to be part of the RP complex and, indeed, we did not find that Rpn4 interacts with any other RP subunits (data not shown). We assembled a library of Y2H constructions, which included 17 that express RP subunits as C‐terminal fusions to the GAL4 binding domain (BD; designated with a BD prefix) and 34 that express RP subunits as C‐ or N‐terminal fusions to the GAL4 activation domain (AD; designated with an AD prefix or suffix, respectively). By using both AD orientations, we hoped to eliminate potential interference by the AD domain. We also attempted to detect interactions using RP subunits fused to the GAL4 BD N‐terminus. However, none of these BD fusions succeeded (data not shown), possibly because the N‐terminal appendages were detrimental to BD activity. The RP constructions were expressed in all possible paired combinations of GAL4 BD—AD fusions and assessed for subunit interaction by the HIS3 and LacZ reporters using the yeast YRG2 strain. The LacZ reporter appears to be a more stringent detector, since all of the LacZ‐positive combinations displayed histidine auxotrophic growth, but not vice versa. In each case, binding activity was compared with a known interacting pair, p53 and SV40 T‐antigen, and a non‐interacting pair, lamin C and SV40 T‐antigen. When each AD and BD fusion was expressed individually, only BD:Rpn3 activated the HIS3 reporter (FIG-REF and data not shown), but it did not elicit significant LacZ activity, suggesting a weak transactivation activity. Paired assortment of the RP subunits gave rise to 136 hetero‐interacting combinations and 17 self‐interacting combinations. Each of the hetero‐interacting combinations was tested in two configurations. Configuration I refers to BD—AD fusions based on an ascending order of Rpt1–6 to Rpn1–12 subunits (e.g. BD:Rpt1— AD:Rpt2) whereas configuration II refers to BD—AD fusions based on a descending order of subunits (e.g. BD:Rpt2—AD:Rpt1). In total, 578 combinations ([(136 × 2) + 17] × 2) were examined. [[FIGURE]] RP subunit pairs that showed a positive reaction when assayed for histidine auxotrophic growth are shown in FIG-REF. Surprisingly, none of the lid subunits showed detectable affinity for any of the base subunits, and vice versa. Seventeen positive pairs involved the BD fusion of Rpn3 (Rpn3 × Rpt1–6, Rpn1–3, 5–12), which could not be concluded as interacting due to self‐activation by BD:Rpn3 (FIG-REF and data not shown). The remaining interacting pairs involved four subunits within the base and eight subunits within the lid. Within the base complex, the Rpt3/3, Rpt3/5, Rpt3/6 and Rpt4/5 pairs appeared to interact. In most cases, binding was evident using either BD—AD configuration (I or II) and either N‐ or C‐terminal AD fusion (FIG-REF). Self‐interactions were observed only with Rpt3 in the BD:Rpt3—AD:Rpt3 orientation. Since we presume that the six Rpt subunits assemble as a heteromeric ring (CITATION), the in vivo significance of this self‐interaction is unclear. With the exception of BD:Rpt4—AD:Rpt5, these base interactions were confirmed by assaying LacZ activities that were 2‐ to 20‐fold higher than the negative control (Table I, lamin C—SV40 T‐antigen). Collectively, the interactions suggest a minimal base cluster involving Rpt4/5/3/6. [[TABLE]] Within the lid, we identified nine interacting pairs: Rpn3/7, Rpn3/12, Rpn5/6, Rpn5/8, Rpn5/9, Rpn5/11, Rpn8/9, Rpn8/11 and Rpn9/11 (FIG-REF). Except for one configuration (BD:Rpn8—AD:Rpn11), three of these partners, Rpn3/7, Rpn5/9 and Rpn8/11, were positive by both the HIS3 and LacZ reporters in all four configurations, suggesting strong affinity (FIG-REF and Table I). Since BD:Rpn3 by itself grew on histidine‐minus medium, the Rpn3/7 interaction could not be demonstrated by the HIS3 reporter alone. However, a strong interaction was supported by significantly higher LacZ activities (31‐ and 56‐fold, respectively) for the BD:Rpn3—AD:Rpn7 and BD:Rpn3—Rpn7:AD combinations as compared with BD:Rpn3 alone (Table I). Six pairs, Rpn3/12, Rpn5/6, Rpn5/8, Rpn5/11, Rpn8/9 and Rpn9/11, were detected by HIS3 (FIG-REF) but not by the LacZ reporter. Moreover, only some of the four configurations were HIS3 positive, suggesting that the interactions within these combinations were weak or substantially affected by the AD—BD appendages. The exception was the Rpn3/12 pair that showed robust growth in all four combinations, including those containing Rpn3 fusions to AD, which alone did not elicit growth. Most of the lid interaction pairs involved Rpn5, 8, 9 and 11 (seven out of nine), suggesting a localized structural cluster containing these four subunits. In an attempt to identify which α‐subunits interact with which RP subunits, we subjected all seven of the yeast α‐subunits to Y2H analysis in combination with the 17 RP subunits. The α‐subunits were tested either as C‐terminal fusions to BD or N‐terminal fusions to AD, whereas the RP subunits were tested as both N‐ and C‐terminal AD fusions and C‐terminal BD fusions, resulting in 238 BD:α1–7 × 34 AD—RP fusions and 119 α1–7:AD × 17 BD—RP fusions. When the α‐fusions were expressed individually, only BD:α5 activated the HIS3 reporter (data not shown). Except for the 34 pairs involving the BD:α5 construction, none of the combinations appeared to interact. Several motifs have been identified within the RP subunits that may be important for activity, structure and/or protein—protein interactions. To examine their roles in the subunit interactions described above, we tested various site‐directed and deletion mutants. All six Rpt subunits contain an N‐terminal coiled‐coil and an ATPase cassette that defines them as members of the AAA‐ATPases superfamily (CITATION). The P‐loop present within the ATPase cassette contains an invariant lysine necessary for ATP hydrolysis (CITATION). As shown in FIG-REF, the Rpt3/6 and Rpt4/5 interactions were maintained with the C‐terminal deletion mutants of Rpt6 (T6CC) and Rpt4 (T4CC) missing the AAA‐ATPase cassette, but abrogated with the N‐terminal deletion mutants (T6AAA and T4AAA) missing the coiled‐coil, indicating that the coiled‐coil is important. For the Rpt4/5 pair, the invariant Lys228 in the P‐loop was not required for the interaction. However, substitution of the invariant Lys195 in the P‐loop of Rpt6 with either arginine (T6R195) or serine (T6S195) abolished the Rpt3/6interaction, indicating that the P‐loop of Rpt6 has a role in the context of the full‐length protein (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Defined structural domains in the lid subunits include the PCI domain (proteasome, COP9, eIF3) found in six subunits (Rpn3, 5–7, 9 and 12), the MPN domain (Mpr1, Pad1 N‐terminal) found in Rpn8 and 11, putative coiled‐coils in Rpn5, 7 and 9, and a potential leucine zipper in Rpn8 (CITATION). Analysis of deletion mutants indicated that the PCI domains and not the coiled‐coils are essential for interaction of the Rpn5/9 pair (FIG-REF). Rpn5 and 9 mutants (N5PCI and N9PCI) containing the PCI domain but not the coiled‐coil maintained their interaction, whereas Rpn5 and 9 mutants missing the PCI domain but containing the coiled‐coil (N9CCN, N9CCC and N5CC) did not (FIG-REF). In fact, BD—AD fusions containing just the PCI domains (N5PCI/N9PCI) interacted, indicating that this domain alone is sufficient for the Rpn5/9 binding. Interaction of PCI domains between Rpn5 and 9 appeared to be subunit specific since the PCI domain from neither Rpn3 (N3PCI) nor Rpn7 (N7PCI) could substitute for that of Rpn9 in its interaction with Rpn5 (FIG-REF). For Rpn3/7 interaction, the PCI domain of Rpn3 was found to be critical, but the motif required in Rpn7 was not obvious. The Rpn3 deletion mutant (N3PCI) containing the PCI maintained its interaction with Rpn7, but a similar deletion in Rpn7 (N7PCI) failed to interact with Rpn3 (FIG-REF). The coiled‐coil domain of Rpn7 alone was also insufficient, as the N‐terminal half of Rpn7 (N7CC) encompassing this domain did not bind to either full‐length Rpn3 or N3PCI. The roles of the MPN and leucine zipper domains were tested in the Rpn8/11 interactions. Alanine substitution mutants of Rpn8, changing key leucines at positions 197 and 204 within the leucine zipper, either singly or in tandem (N8A197, N8A204 and N8A197/204), failed to disrupt its association with Rpn11, indicating that the leucine zipper is not essential (FIG-REF). In contrast, mutants (N8MPN1 and N11MPN1) containing the MPN domain interacted with their wild‐type partners whereas the complementary mutants missing their MPN domains (N8MPNΔ and N11MPNΔ) did not, indicating that the MPN domain is involved (FIG-REF). Deletions of Rpn8 (N8MPN2) and Rpn11 (N11MPN2) removing additional sequences near the MPN domains failed to associate with their wild‐type partners, as did segments containing just the regions surrounding the MPN domains (N11MPN1 and N8MPN1). Thus, it is possible that the amino acids flanking the C‐terminus of the MPN domains contain essential contacts or are needed for proper folding of the MPN domains. Amino acid sequence alignments between subunits of the RP lid and the CSN suggest that these two complexes arose from a common progenitor (CITATION; CITATION). In particular, Rpn3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11 and 12 appear to be synonymous with Csn3, 4, 2, 1, 6, 7, 5 and 8, respectively (Table II). To test whether the synonymous CSN subunits also share protein—protein interactions similar to those of the lid, we subjected all eight proteins from the Arabidopsis CSN to Y2H analysis. Previous studies (see CITATION) and our database searches showed that most CSN subunits are encoded by single genes in Arabidopsis. The exceptions are Csn5 and Csn6, which are both encoded by two genes (designated A and B) that share ∼86–88% amino acid sequence identities (Table II). The presence of cDNAs for all the Csn genes in various Arabidopsis expressed sequence tag (EST) collections indicates that all are actively expressed (Table II). Csn7 is unique because it encodes two protein isoforms, Csn7i and Csn7ii. They are derived by alternative splicing of the seventh intron such that the Csn7i protein contains two additional amino acids at its C‐terminus and the Csn7ii protein has a 37 amino acid C‐terminal extension (data not shown). Two Csn7 proteins differing by several kilodaltons were detected in Arabidopsis, which may reflect these two isoforms (CITATION). The amino acid sequence similarities between orthologous CSN subunits from Arabidopsis and human are ∼45–75% as compared with ∼32–54% similarities between synonymous subunits of the lid and CSN from Arabidopsis (Table II). [[TABLE]] The Arabidopsis CSN was tested by Y2H either as C‐ and N‐terminal AD fusions or as C‐terminal BD fusions. When each of the AD and BD fusions was expressed alone, only BD:Csn5A and BD:Csn5B self‐activated the HIS3 reporter (FIG-REF) and only BD:Csn5A slightly activated the LacZ reporter (Table III). The 11 CSN subunits (including isoforms of Csn5, 6 and 7) gave rise to 55 hetero‐interacting combinations and 11 self‐interacting combinations. When assembled in both ascending (configuration I) and descending (configuration II) configurations, a total of 242 combinations ([(55 × 2) + 11] × 2) were examined. [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] When assayed by the HIS3 reporter, 27 CSN pairs showed an interaction with at least one configuration (FIG-REF). In general, the two homologs of Csn5 and Csn6 and the two isoforms of Csn7 gave similar results. Compilation of the data identified 13 interacting pairs: Csn1/7, Csn3/4, Csn3/5, Csn3/7, Csn3/8, Csn4/5, Csn4/7, Csn5/6, Csn5/7, Csn5/8, Csn6/6, Csn6/7 and Csn7/8. Interactions involving Csn5/6, Csn5/7 and Csn5/8 could only be confirmed in configuration II due to self‐activation of the BD:Csn5A and BD:Csn5B fusions (FIG-REF). The subunit pairs, Csn1/7, Csn3/4, Csn3/5, Csn3/7, Csn4/5, Csn5/7 and Csn6/6 showed a modest interaction by the HIS3 reporter but failed by the LacZ reporter, suggesting weak associations. In contrast, the collective data for the Csn3/8, Csn4/7, Csn5/6, Csn5/8, Csn6/7 and Csn7/8 pairs implied strong binding. Interactions were identified in all or most of the four potential configurations with the HIS3 reporter and elicited significant LacZ activities with at least one configuration and more often with 2–4 configurations (Table III). Remarkably, most of these Csn partners (Csn3/8, Csn4/5, Csn4/7, Csn5/6, Csn5/7 and Csn6/7) were synonymous to interacting pairs identified within the RP lid (Rpn3/12, Rpn5/11, Rpn5/9, Rpn11/8, Rpn11/9 and Rpn8/9, respectively). Mutagenic studies indicated that the N‐terminal 60 residues of Rpn10 contain a domain important for conferring amino acid analog resistance, Ub‐Pro‐βgal degradation and stable association of the RP lid with the base (CITATION; CITATION). To define further the essential N‐terminal residues, a series of deletion and substitution mutants was examined (FIG-REF). Using growth sensitivity to the arginine and phenylalanine analogs, canavanine (CAN) and p‐fluorophenylalanine (PFP), respectively, deletion analysis identified residues 7–15 as being important for analog resistance (FIG-REF). Similarly to previous studies (CITATION), the growth of the yeast rpn10Δ strain is highly sensitive to the addition of CAN/PFP to the medium, which can be rescued by reintroducing wild‐type Rpn10 (FIG-REF). Whereas, Rpn10 deletion Δ1–6 also restored growth on CAN/PFP medium, larger N‐terminal deletions (Δ1–15, Δ1–27, Δ1–42, Δ1–48 and Δ1–60) failed even though high levels of the truncated proteins were expressed (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To locate the critical amino acids, a series of substitution mutants was then tested with an emphasis on the Asp‐Asn‐Ser‐Glu sequence at positions 11–14 that is highly conserved among Rpn10 orthologs (FIG-REF). Replacing these four residues with alanines (Ala/11–14) abrogated analog resistance conferred by Rpn10, indicating that one or more of these four were important (FIG-REF). In contrast, a similar alanine scan of conserved residues at positions 17–20 generated an Rpn10 protein with near wild‐type activity. Additional substitution mutants pinpointed Asp11 as the critical residue. Any individual alanine mutant that altered this residue failed to rescue analog resistance even though high levels of the mutant Rpn10 proteins were present (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Its acidic nature appeared important as the conservative substitution of Asp11 for glutamate generated an active protein whereas substitutions of Asp11 with lysine or arginine did not (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Whereas the half‐life of many short‐lived proteins is unaffected by Rpn10 N‐terminal deletions, the UFD pathway substrate, Ub‐Pro‐βgal, is stabilized remarkably (CITATION; CITATION). To test whether Asp11 is critical for selective breakdown of Ub‐Pro‐βgal, we determined the steady‐state levels of βgal in the rpn10Δ strains as an indirect measure of half‐life (FIG-REF). Whereas, Met‐βgal is a stable protein, the N‐end rule substrate Arg‐β‐gal and the UFD substrate Ub‐Pro‐βgal are short lived in wild‐type yeast, with half‐lives of ∼2 and ∼6 min, respectively (CITATION). As a consequence, rpn10Δ expressing wild‐type Rpn10 accumulated high levels of Met‐βgal but only low levels of Arg‐βgal and Ub‐Pro‐βgal (FIG-REF). In rpn10Δ strains, the steady‐state level of Ub‐Pro‐βgal but not Arg‐βgal increased to that matching Met‐βgal, indicating that the Ub‐Pro‐βgal protein was stabilized selectively. A similar selective increase was observed for the rpn10Δ strain expressing the rpn10R11 protein. Thus, Asp11 in Rpn10 is essential for the degradation of UFD pathway substrates, but not N‐end rule substrates. [[FIGURE]] Next, we analyzed the stability of the 26S proteasome isolated from rpn10Δ or rpn10Δ expressing wild‐type Rpn10 or rpn10R11. As can be seen in FIG-REF, peptidase activity, Rpt1 and Rpn3 (indicators of CP, base and lid subcomplexes, respectively) co‐eluted when 26S proteasome preparations from wild‐type yeast were analyzed by anion exchange chromatography. Only a small amount of lid (as detected by the presence of Rpn3) eluted earlier in the NaCl gradient, indicating that most of the 26S proteasomes remained intact (FIG-REF, top panel). A substantial percentage of the lid dissociated from the 26S complex isolated from the rpn10Δ strain. This was observed by the majority of Rpn3 eluting much earlier than peptidase activity and Rpt1 (FIG-REF, middle panel). A similar effect was observed for preparations obtained from the rpn10Δ strain expressing rpn10R11, i.e. a substantial percentage of Rpn3 eluted earlier than the rest of the 26S proteasome (FIG-REF, lower panel). Thus, it appears that substitution of this single aspartate in Rpn10 was sufficient to weaken binding of the RP lid to the base. As discussed below, this negative charge appears to help stabilize an internal fold in Rpn10 as opposed to directly participating in lid—base contacts. Following separation of the lid and base, rpn10R11 appeared to remain associated with the base since the protein co‐fractionated with the peptidase activity and Rpt1 (FIG-REF, lower panel). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The haploid yeast rpn10Δ strain (MATa) derived from DF5 was described previously (CITATION). Yeast transformation and yeast rich (YPD) and synthetic complete (SC) media were as described (CITATION). For the amino acid analog sensitivity, arginine and phenylalanine were omitted from SC medium and their corresponding analogs, CAN and PFP, were added to 1.5 and 25 μg/ml, respectively. The Y2H analysis was performed according to the manufacturer's recommendations (Stratagene). Full‐length coding sequences for the RP and the CP α‐subunits were amplified by PCR using PfuTurbo™ (Stratagene) from S.cerevisiae DF5 (MATa) genomic DNA. By using human CSN subunits as queries, Arabidopsis CSN genes previously unreported were identified from the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative database (http://www.arabidopsis.org/home.html; see Table II). The intron/exon organization was annotated by comparison with corresponding full‐length CSN cDNAs. The full‐length cDNA for CSN3 was an EST (161P1) from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC, Ohio State University). The remaining full‐length CSN cDNAs were isolated by PCR from the cDNA libraries CD4‐13 and CD4‐14 from ABRC. All Arabidopsis CSN cDNAs have been deposited in the DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank database under accession Nos AF395057–AF395067. For each of the 26S proteasome and CSN subunits, the 5′ and 3′ amplification primers were designed to add appropriate restriction sites to the ends to facilitate subsequent cloning in the Y2H vectors. For insertion as N‐terminal fusions to GAL4 AD, the 3′ primers were also designed to substitute restriction sites for the stop codon to allow the synthesis of the protein as an in‐frame fusion. For C‐terminal GAL4 AD and BD fusion constructions, the Y2H vectors, pAD‐GAL4‐2.1 and pBD‐GAL4 Cam (Stratagene), were used, respectively. For N‐terminal GAL4 AD fusion constructs, the Y2H vector pADCT was constructed from pAD‐GAL4‐2.1 (Stratagene) to allow expression of proteins as N‐terminal fusions with the GAL4 AD. In this vector, a GAL4 AD cassette (ADCT) was inserted between the KpnI and PstI sites of pAD‐GAL4‐2.1. It contained (from 5′ to 3′), a 398 bp fragment of the alcohol dehydrogenase promoter, a region containing the unique restriction sites NdeI, EcoRI and SalI (NES), and the GAL4 AD coding sequence (AD), encompassing codons 768–881 followed by an engineered stop codon. Structural domains were identified using analysis programs from ExPASy Molecular Biology Server (Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, http://www.expasy.ch/). Deletion and substitution mutants were generated using PCR strategies. The sequences of all constructions were verified as correct by DNA sequence analysis. Sequences of the PCR primers and organization of the final GAL4 BD—AD fusion vectors will be made available upon request (H.Fu, unpublished). Deletion mutants of Rpn10 were constructed by PCR amplification from the wild‐type gene with appropriate primers designed to add an NdeI site at the deletion point and an EcoRI site at the 3′ end. The constructions were moved into a 2μ plasmid, pRS424‐RPN10ΔP, which was modified from pRS424 to include a 552 bp RPN10 promoter fragment immediately followed by NdeI and EcoRI sites (CITATION). Preparation of yeast crude extracts, SDS—PAGE and immunoblot analyses were described previously (CITATION). Steady‐state levels of the Met‐, Arg‐ and Ub‐Pro‐βgal fusion proteins were measured by testing LacZ activity according to CITATION. 26S proteasomes were purified by the method of CITATION. Fractions were assayed for peptidase activity and for the Rpt1, Rpn10 and Rpn3 subunits by immunoblot analysis. Peptidase activity of the CP was determined according to CITATION using Suc‐LLVY‐AMC as a substrate.
