!~ABS~! It is postulated that the symmetric organization of plant lateral organs is based on two crossed axes, the abaxial–adaxial and the lateral axes. The PRESSED FLOWER (PRS) gene, the expression and function of which are dependent on the lateral axis, is reported in this study. In the prs mutant, growth of the lateral sepals is repressed, and although the size and shape of the abaxial and adaxial sepals are normal, the cell files at the lateral margins are missing. Double-mutant analyses showed that the PRSgene functions independently of the determinations of both floral organ identity and floral meristem size. The PRS gene, encoding a putative transcriptional factor with a homeodomain, was shown to be required for cell proliferation. PRS gene expression is spatially and temporally unique and is expressed in a restricted number of L1 cells at the lateral regions of flower primordia, floral organ primordia, and young leaf primordia. Our study strongly suggests that the PRS gene is involved in the molecular mechanism of lateral axis-dependent development of lateral organs in Arabidopsis. 
!~RES~! We isolated a recessive and single gene mutant, prs, named because the flower looks flattened, from an M2 population of ethylmethane sulfonate mutagenized seeds of ArabidopsisLandsberg erecta (L. er). In the flower primordia at stages 1 and 2 (CITATION), before the sepal primordia appear, no morphological differences between the wild type and prswere observed. Defects in the lateral sepal development in prswere first detected at stages 3 and 4, when the sepal primordia arise and bulge. Most of the lateral sepal primordia of prs were smaller than those of the wild type and were sometimes absent (Fig.1A,B). In the mature flower ofprs, 70% of the lateral sepals developed into small sepals (Fig. 1C,D,F) or into filamentous organs (data not shown) or were missing when the primordia had not formed (Fig. 1D,E). This phenotype indicates that prs has defects in the formation of the sepals at the lateral positions in relation to the inflorescence meristem. Although the shape and size of the abaxial and adaxial sepals were indistinguishable from the corresponding wild-type sepals (Fig. 1D), more detailed observations revealed defects in the marginal regions. Knife-edge cells, which are made from the L1 layer, reside in the marginal regions of wild-type sepals (Fig. 1G), whereas these cells were missing from the marginal regions of the abaxial and adaxial sepals of prs (Fig. 1H). Other than the sepals inprs, we have not been able to find any difference in the marginal regions of floral organs. The marginal regions of sepals correspond to the lateral positions in sepals in relation to the center of the flower. In other words, prs has defects in the development of the cells at the lateral marginal regions relative to the floral meristem. These phenotypes indicate that PRSfunctions are highly relevant to the flower and sepal development at the lateral regions in relation to inflorescence and floral meristem, respectively (Fig. 1O,P).  [[FIGURE]] To examine whether PRS is also involved in processes of flower formation other than sepal development, we crossed prswith several flower mutants. First, we investigated whetherPRS function is related to the determination of sepal identity. APETALA2 (AP2) is a key gene determining the identity of sepals (CITATION). In ap2-1, one of the weak alleles, floral organs in the first whorl lose sepal identity and are homeotically transformed into leaf-like organs with trichomes (Fig. 1I; CITATION). In the prs ap2-1 double mutant, the organs in the lateral position of the first whorl were absent or transformed into filamentous organs. On the other hand, leaf-like organs were formed at the abaxial and adaxial position (Fig. 1J). This phenotype indicates that PRS functions independently of the floral organ identity. Second, we crossed prs with a meristem size mutant, clv1-4 (Fig. 1K; CITATION), for investigating the relation of the PRS function with the meristem size. In the prs clv1-4 double mutant, the size of the floral meristem increased enough to initiate five or six sepal primordia, but there were vacant spaces, with no primordia, at the lateral positions in the first whorl (Fig. 1L). However, such openings were not observed in the clv1-4 single-mutant flower. This finding suggests that PRS functions independently of the floral meristem size. Third, we examined the PRS function in the inner-whorl organs, which did not have obvious defects in theprs single mutant. The second whorl organs ofapetala3-5 (ap3-5) are homeotically transformed to sepals (CITATION). We confirmed the transformed sepals had knife-edge cells, which are indistinguishable from those observed in wild-type sepals (Fig. 1M). The second whorl organs of the prs ap3-5 double mutant looked like sepals, but the margin-specific cells were not observed at the margin of the organs (Fig. 1N). This result indicates that PRS has a role in the formation of the margin cells of the second whorl organs as well as of those of the first whorl organs.  We isolated PRS by positional cloning methods. PRSwas mapped on chromosome 2 within a region of ∼30 kb between nmB and nmG markers, made on the basis of the genomic sequence data from The Institute for Genomic Research (TIGR; Fig.2A). The region is covered with annotated BAC clones, T8O18 and T17D12. We found six predicted open reading frames (ORFs) in this region and compared the genomic sequences between wild type (L. er) and prs. A single-base change was found in one ORF, T8O18.10 (Fig. 2A,B). To confirm that this ORF corresponded to PRS, we used three genomic fragments from a genomic library, including T8O18.10 ORF, to transform prs by a vacuum infiltration method. The T1 plants carrying these genomic clones showed complementation of the floral defects of prs (Fig.2A,C,D). PRS cDNA, obtained by 5′- and 3′-RACE, is 966 bp, including 5′-UTR of 102 bp and 3′-UTR of 129 bp (Fig. 2B). PRS encodes a protein containing 244 amino acids, with a homeodomain at the N terminus showing an identity of 68% to a homeodomain of WUSCHEL (WUS; Fig. 2B; CITATION). PRS had two low complexity regions; in the middle of PRS, we found a glutamine-rich region and a histidine-rich one (Fig. 2B). There were no genes sharing any similarity to the other regions of PRS in the database. Inprs, a nucleotide change from C to T was found at nucleotide 256, which caused a change of glutamine 86 to a stop codon (Fig. 2B).  [[FIGURE]] PRS was predicted to be a transcriptional factor according to the deduced amino acid sequence from the cDNA sequence. To investigate the cellular localization of PRS, we made a chimeric gene of the full-length PRS cDNA, translationally fused to β-glucuronidase (GUS) coding region driven by the 35S promoter of the cauliflower mosaic virus, and introduced it into onion epidermal cells with the use of a particle bombardment system. The fusion protein was localized in the nucleus (Fig. 2E–H). Although an obvious nuclear localization signal was not found, the motif of homeodomain and the nuclear localization of the fusion protein in onion cells strongly suggest that PRS functions as a transcriptional regulator.  The expression of PRS in flowers was under the detectable level in Northern blot analysis (data not shown). RT–PCR analysis showed that PRS was expressed in aerial parts of seedlings, inflorescences, and flowers (data not shown). To examine the temporal and spatial pattern of the expression of PRS in the inflorescences and flowers, we performed in situ hybridization. To prevent cross-hybridization to other homeobox genes, a part of the cDNA of PRS lacking the homeodomain was used as a probe. The first appearance of PRS expression was in the L1 cells of the lateral regions of a flower primordium at early stage 1, in which the lateral sepals are expected to develop at a later stage (Fig.3A,B, arrowheads and G). PRSexpression rapidly diminished at the late stage 1 and disappeared at stage 2 (Fig. 3A,B,G). At stage 3, PRS expression reappeared in all four-sepal young primordia (Fig. 3A,B, asterisks and G). No expression was detected at the central zone of the inflorescence meristem and the floral meristem (Fig. 3A,B). In stages 4 through 6, when four sepals develop to enclose the flower bud, PRS mRNA was localized at the lateral edges of the four sepals (Fig. 3G). A series of sections of a flower at stage 6 showed that the regions expressing PRS formed an arch of the L1 cells at the margin of sepals (Fig. 3C–F). In addition, PRS began to be expressed in the young primordia of petals (Fig. 3E, asterisks) and stamens (data not shown). As the petals and stamens develop, the expression ofPRS was limited at the margins of petals and stamens in a way similar to that of sepals (Fig. 3H,I). Interestingly, no expression was detected in the carpels (Fig. 3I). Figure 5, A–D, are schematic drawings of the expression patterns of PRS in a flower primordium and floral organs. Moreover, in the vegetative phase,PRS was expressed at the lateral regions of young leaf primordia, as well as in flowers and floral organs (Figs. 3J,K and 5C,D).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The unique expression pattern correlates to the phenotypes of theprs mutant. In the process of flower development, PRSexpression was detected first at the two presumptive areas to generate the lateral sepals (Fig. 3A,B, arrowheads). The restricted inhibition of the lateral sepal development in prs would be responsible for the loss of PRS function in this stage. The second observation of PRS expression was at the lateral margins of sepals (Fig. 3A,B, asterisks and 3C–F, arrowheads). The missing cell files at the margin of the abaxial and adaxial sepals are most likely to be related to the PRS expression in the cells at the corresponding regions. PRS was also expressed at the margins of petals and stamens (Fig. 3H,I), suggesting that PRS has a function in forming the margin of the inner-whorl organs. This is confirmed by the loss of the marginal cells in the second whorl organs in prs ap3-5 (Fig. 1N). In prs, however, we were not able to find any structural abnormality in petals and stamens, possibly because the marginal cells are indistinguishable from abaxial and/or adaxial cells. In addition, PRS was expressed at the lateral edges of leaf primordia, although distinct defects in the regions were not detected in prs. One explanation is that functionally redundant genes are involved in the development of the cells at the margins of leaves.  To investigate the function of PRS, we also analyzed a phenotype of a gain-of-function mutant of PRS. In 35S:PRStransgenic plants, multicellular bulges with trichomes were observed on the stem (Fig. 4A) and on the peduncle (Fig. 4B). On the sepals, white wrinkle structures were observed (Fig.4C). Transverse sections showed that the structures were outgrowths of epidermal cells (Fig. 4D). The margin of wild-type sepals was made of similar outgrowths of epidermal cells (Fig. 4D). We interpret these phenotypes as being the result of ectopic and overproliferation of the epidermal cells. This aberrant proliferation of epidermal cells in various organs observed in the transgenic plants strongly suggests that PRS functions to promote the genetic pathways involved in the proliferation of L1 cells.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds were sown on the surface of vermiculite in small pots and incubated for three days at 4°C. Plants were grown in a laboratory at 22°C and under continuous illumination of 50 to 100 μE/m2per sec.  For scanning electron microscopy, flowers and inflorescences of the mutants and the transgenic plants were fixed in a carnoa liquid mixture (isoamyl acetate/ethanol, 1:3) overnight. The samples were rinsed twice with ethanol, incubated in an ethanol/isoamyl acetate (1:3) mixture for 15 min, then immersed in isoamyl acetate for 15 min, and dried in liquid carbon dioxide. After trimming, the samples were mounted on scanning electron microscopy stubs, coated with gold, and observed with a scanning electron microscope (JEOL DATUM, JSM-5800LV) at an accelerating voltage of 20 kV. The images were revised with Adobe PhotoShop on a Macintosh computer.  DNA markers used for positional cloning were based on RFLP (restriction fragment lengthpolymorphism), CAPS (cleavedamplified polymorphic sequence), and SSLP (simple sequence lengthpolymorphism) between the Arabidopsis ecotypes Landsberg erecta and Columbia. Information on the cop1 marker (CAPS) and the CZSOD2 marker (SSLP) were obtained from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR; http://www.arabidopsis.org/). We changed the ve014 marker from the RFLP marker to the CAPS marker. Primer sequences are 5′-ACAT TACGTGGAGTAACCTG-3′ and 5′-ACATTCGATACTATC TGGCG-3′, and the enzyme used for digestion isHaeIII. Based on the sequence data from the TIGRArabidopsis thaliana Database (http://www.tigr.org/tdb/ath1/htmls/ath1.html) and on the RFLPs we found, we made new PCR markers. The T10K5T7 end marker is a CAPS marker; the primer sequences are 5′-TGACAATGACATGTTTCGCG-3′ and 5′-CTACTACAATCT TCAGGAGC-3′; and the enzyme used for digestion isSspI. The nmB marker is a CAPS marker; the primer sequences are 5′-TTCTCTTTCTCTCTCCCGCC-3′ and 5′-AAGACTTGCTAG TTCCTCGG-3′; and the enzyme used for digestion is DraI. The nmF markers is a dCAPS marker (CITATION); the primer sequences are 5′-GGTTTATCACCAAACCAGTTTATTG-3′ and 5′-TTGTTTGTTCGGGTCTCTCC-3′; and the enzyme used for digestion is BstXI. The nmG marker is a CAPS marker; the primer sequences are 5′-GGACAGGTAAGAGACAGTAG 3′ and 5′-AGAAGAGGAGCGTGTATGCT-3′; and the enzyme used for digestion isEcoRV.  A genomic library of Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) in λFIX II (provided from H. Kaya, Kyoto University, Japan) was screened with a probe of a PCR-amplified DNA fragment, including the ORF of thePRS gene. cDNA cloning was performed by both 5′-RACE and 3′-RACE using the SMART RACE cDNA Amplification Kit (Clontech) and total RNA from inflorescences of the Columbia wild type.  PCR-amplified DNA fragments and subcloned inserts were sequenced with ABI Prism BigDye Terminator Cycle Sequencing Ready Reaction Kits and an ABI Prism 310 and 377 from Perkin Elmer.  Three genomic clones—1 (∼7 kb), 2 (∼5.4 kb), and 6 (∼9 kb)—were subcloned into a binary vector pPZP211 for the complementation test (CITATION). We transformedprs by a vacuum infiltration procedure with theAgrobacterium strain C58C1. Transgenic plants were selected on an agar medium containing a 30 μg/mL kanamycin and 100 μg/mL carbenicilin.  The full length of PRS cDNA was ligated into a plasmid pBI221 (Clontech) to construct PRS-GUS fusion protein. For the transient expression of the 35S:PRS–GUS chimeric gene in onion epidermal cells, we used a Biolistic PDS-1000/He Particle Delivery System (Bio-Rad). Samples were stained with X-Gluc solution (5.7 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-glucuronide, 1.5 mM K3Fe(CN)6, 1.5 mM K4Fe(CN)6, 0.9% TritonX-100) and DAPI (1 μg/mL).  We modified the protocol used in Kathy Barton's laboratory (http://www.wisc.edu/genetics/CATG/barton/protocols.html) to conduct nonradioactive in situ hybridization. Inflorescences were fixed in FAA solution (50% ethanol, 5% acetic acid, 3.7% formaldehyde) for 3–4 h at room temperature, and seedlings were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde overnight at 4°C. Sections were 7 μm thick, and antisense and sense probes used for in situ hybridization were prepared by subcloning a part of PRS cDNA (corresponding to the sequence at 205–856) into pBluescript SK (Stratagene). Fluorescein RNA Labeling Mix (Roche) was used for labeling. After hybridization at 50 °C, sections were washed three times for 10 min at 50°C in 4× SSPE and 5 mM DTT. After the first wash, the sections were treated with RNase A (20 μg/mL) for 30 min at 37°C and washed in RNase buffer (0.5 M NaCl, 10 mM Tris-HCl at pH 7.5, 1 mM EDTA) for 15 min at 37 °C three times. The final wash was performed twice, for 20 min at 50°C in 0.5× SSPE and 5 mM DTT. Anti-Fluorescein-AP (Roche) and NBT/BCIP stock solution (Roche) were used for fluorescein immunological detection.  For the experiments of over expression, full-length cDNA ofPRS was first ligated into pBI221 digested by XbaI and SacI, lacking the GUS gene, and theEcoRI/HindIII fragment, including 35S:PRS, was ligated into a binary vector, pPZP211. We transformed the Columbia wild type by a vacuum infiltration procedure with theAgrobacterium strain C58C1. We selected the transgenic plants and analyzed their phenotypes. The condition of selection was the same as for the complementation test. 
