!~ABS~! Magnesium (Mg) chelatase is a heterotrimeric enzyme complex that catalyzes a key regulatory and enzymatic reaction in chlorophyll biosynthesis, the insertion of Mg2+ into protoporphyrin IX. Studies of the enzyme complex reconstituted in vitro have shown that all three of its subunits, CHL I, CHL D, and CHL H, are required for enzymatic activity. However, a new T-DNA knockout mutant of the chlorina locus, ch42-3 (Chl I), in Arabidopsis is still able to accumulate some chlorophyll despite the absence of Chl I mRNA and protein. In barley (Hordeum vulgare), CHL I is encoded by a single gene. We have identified an open reading frame that apparently encodes a second Chl Igene, Chl I2. Chl I1 and Chl I2 mRNA accumulate to similar levels in wild type, yet CHL I2 protein is not detectable in wild type or ch42-3, although the protein is translated and stromally processed as shown by in vivo pulse labeling and in vitro chloroplast imports. It is surprising that CHL D accumulates to wild-type levels in ch42-3, which is in contrast to reports that CHL D is unstable in CHL I-deficient backgrounds of barley. Our results show that limited Mg chelatase activity and CHL D accumulation can occur without detectable CHL I, despite its obligate requirement in vitro and its proposed chaperone-like stabilization and activation of CHL D. Thus, the unusual post-translational regulation of the CHL I2 protein provides an opportunity to study the different steps involved in stabilization and activation of the heterotrimeric Mg chelatase in vivo.
!~RES~! Screening of the Feldman T-DNA populations (CITATION) for lethal chlorotic lines resulted in identification of the T-DNA-tagged mutant, ch42-3. Complementation tests by reciprocal crosses (data not shown) with the chlorina allelesch1, ch3, ch5, and ch42-1revealed that ch42-3 is a recessive mutation and is allelic to ch42. Segregation of kanamycin resistance inCH42-3/ch42-3 reciprocal crosses (data not shown) indicated that there was only one T-DNA insertion, and it was linked toch42-3. A genomic library of ch42-3 was probed with the left and right borders of the T-DNA and five genomic clones containing the T-DNA and flanking genomic DNA were isolated. Linkage ofChl I1 to the T-DNA insertion was confirmed by Southern-blot analysis of genomic DNA probed with Chl I1 and T-DNA left border fragments (data not shown). Comparison of sequence flanking the right border of the T-DNA to theChl I1 sequence showed that the T-DNA insertion occurred 6 bp downstream of the start Met (Fig. 2A). There are two other reported ch42 alleles, the inviable, chlorotic ch42-1, an x-ray-induced mutation that was defined as a lesion in the Chl I1 gene (CITATION), and the viable pale green ch42-2, a T-DNA-tagged mutant where the insertion was near the 3′ end of the gene resulting in a C-terminal fusion of 11 amino acids (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] Insertion of the T-DNA 6 bp downstream of the start Met inch42-3 should disrupt transcription of Chl I1 and prevent synthesis of a functional CHL I protein. Northern-blot analysis of total RNA from wild type, ch42-1 (CITATION),ch42-2 (CITATION), and ch42-3 probed with a Chl I1 fragment show that the Chl I1 mRNA was undetectable in ch42-3 and reduced in ch42-1and ch42-2 (Fig. 3A). The absence of Chl I1 mRNA in ch42-3 was confirmed by RT-PCR using gene-specific primers (Fig. 3B).  [[FIGURE]] In barley, null xantha-h (Chl I) mutants are incapable of synthesizing chlorophyll; yet in Arabidopsis the null ch42-3allele accumulated 17% of wild-type chlorophyll levels. The other two alleles, ch42-1 and ch42-2, accumulated 11% and 43%, respectively (Fig. 2B). It is interesting that less chlorophyll is synthesized in the ch42-1 allele that has detectable mRNA than the null ch42-3. Forty percent of wild-type chlorophyll levels in ch42-2 is sufficient for viability and reflects the insertion of the T-DNA near the 3′ end of the Chl I1gene (Fig. 2A; CITATION). chl a/b ratios were elevated relative to the wild-type chl a/b ratio of 3.0, ranging from 4.0 to 10.4 in the ch42 mutants examined, which is typical of chlorophyll biosynthetic mutants and is usually accompanied by a reduction in light-harvesting apoproteins. Lhcb 1 (the major light harvesting complex of photosystem II) levels were not altered inch42-3, whereas Lhcb 2 and Lhcb 3 apoproteins were absent (data not shown). Because ch42-3 was the only null allele, it was used for further studies. Western-blot analyses of total proteins verified that CHL I protein does not accumulate in ch42-3 (Fig. 3C), which would be expected given the location of the T-DNA insertion and the absence of detectable message (Fig. 3, A and B). It is interesting that the CHL D subunit accumulated to levels that were slightly higher than that observed in wild type (Fig. 3C). The presence of stable CHL D protein and the ability of ch42-3 to synthesize some chlorophyll in the absence of CHL I protein was in contrast to what was previously observed in null Chl I mutants in barley. These results prompted us to examine the possibility of a CHL I multigene family in Arabidopsis. Searches of expressed sequence tag (EST) and genome sequences resulted in the identification of a second expressedChl I gene, Chl I2, located between 91 and 101 cM on chromosome V (Transformation-competent artificial chromosome [TAC] clone K15122; GenBank accession no. AB016870 and the partial-length cDNA from EST clone E4F4T7). The amino acid sequence was obtained from the annotated K15122 clone information at theArabidopsis thaliana Database (Arabidopsis Genome Initiative) and comparisons to the Chl I1 amino acid sequence showed an 82% identity between CHL I1 and CHL I2 (Fig.4). The sequence of spliced Chl I2 was verified by amplification of the full-length cDNA using RT-PCR, and no premature stop codons or mis-splicings of introns were detected. The predicted cleavage site for the transit peptides of CHL I1 and CHL I2 is between Ser-60 and Val-61 and Ser-55 and Val-56, respectively (CITATION). One notable difference between the leader sequences, however, is a small deletion in the CHL I2 transit peptide that is just upstream of the predicted cleavage site (Fig. 4).  [[FIGURE]] Because of the high identity between Chl I1 andChl I2, gene-specific probes were designed by sequence analysis and tested by demonstrating an absence of cross-hybridization to dot blots of the respective cDNA clones. Northern-blot analysis of total RNA from wild type showed that Chl I1 and Chl I2 mRNA accumulated to similar levels in wild type (Fig.5A). In addition, Lhcb 1 mRNA accumulates to wild-type levels in ch42-3 (Fig. 5A). Abundance of mRNA for Chl I2 was similar in ch42-3 and wild-type leaves (Fig. 5A), suggesting that the suboptimal levels of chlorophyll biosynthesis in ch42-3 was not because of a lack ofChl I2 mRNA.  [[FIGURE]] Despite the abundance of Chl I2 mRNA, the CHL I2 protein is not detected in ch42-3 by two different polyclonal CHL I antisera (from Arabidopsis andSynechocystis sp. PCC6803) or by an anti-CHLD serum that reacts to CHL I. The CHL I antisera from Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 reacts with recombinant CHL I2 expressed in E. coliindicating that the polyclonal antisera can detect the CHL I2 isoform (Fig. 5B). Proteins from isolated chloroplasts were also analyzed for presence of the CHL I2 protein in ch42-3. Although CHL I was very abundant in chloroplast protein samples from wild type, no CHL I2 was detected in ch42-3 (Fig. 5C). Titration and serial dilutions demonstrated that there is at least a 1,000-fold reduction in CHL I2 in ch42-3 compared with CHL I1 levels in wild type (data not shown). Pulse labeling of ch42-3 leaves with a [35S]Met/Cys mixture and subsequent immunoprecipitation of labeled CHL I1 and CHL I2 protein using the polyclonal CHL I antisera was performed to determine whether or not the abundant Chl I2 mRNA was translated into protein. CHL I1 protein was detectable by pulse labeling in wild type, with an apparent molecular mass of approximately 44 kD, which is slightly larger than the predicted mass of the stromally processed CHL I1 (39.9 kD; Fig.6A). In ch42-3, which only accumulates Chl I2 mRNA, CHL I2 protein was detected with an apparent molecular mass of approximately 50 kD. This is more consistent with the predicted molecular mass of precursor CHL I2 (46 kD), than the mature form of CHL I2 (39 kD). In addition, the immunoprecipitation of CHL I2 in ch42-3 further confirms that the polyclonal antisera can detect the CHL I2 isoform.  [[FIGURE]] Despite the apparent abundance of Chl I2 mRNA and its translation in vivo, CHL I2 protein does not accumulate inch42-3. Therefore, the apparent instability is presumably the result of post-translational processes. Initial results indicated that the CHL I2 protein may not be imported and processed because the size detected by pulse labeling was approximately 6 kD larger than CHL I1. In addition, there is a deletion in the CHL I2 transit peptide in a region conserved in all plant CHL I proteins. Deletion of a similar region in the ferredoxin transit peptide of Silene pratensisimpaired processing of preferredoxin to ferredoxin in transgenic Arabidopsis plants (CITATION). Results from repeated in vitro import into pea chloroplasts, however, showed that both pre-CHL I1 and pre-CHL I2 are efficiently imported and processed. The higher apparent mass of mature CHL I2 was also observed in these imports, suggesting that the apparent size difference reflects different relative mobility of the CHL I2 isoform during SDS-PAGE rather than mis-processing. Furthermore, both CHL I1 and CHL I2 were stable after processing of the leader sequence. The mature form of CHL I2 was as stable as the small subunit of Rubisco after import and processing in isolated pea chloroplasts (Fig. 6B). Therefore, we conclude that CHL I2 is imported and stromally processed in ch42-3, yet CHL I2 fails to accumulate in vivo.
!~MM~! The Feldman T-DNA populations (CITATION) were screened for chlorotic lines to identify null lesions in pigment biosynthetic pathways as described (CITATION). Complementation tests by reciprocal crosses with chlorina alleles from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center were undertaken. The segregation of the T-DNA, as determined by kanamycin resistance with the loss of chlorophyll, was established by growing seedlings on kanamycin media. The genomic DNA flanking the T-DNA was identified by the probing of a genomic library prepared from ch42-3DNA cloned into lambda GEM-12 (Promega) with the right and left borders of the T-DNA. Five genomic clones ranging from 11 to 17 kb that hybridized predominantly to the left border were characterized in detail by restriction mapping (CITATION) and sequencing across the insertion junction (CITATION). The five clones all contained the left border of the T-DNA adjacent toChl I1 genomic DNA. A 1.2-kb fragment containing almost exclusively Chl I1 genomic DNA was isolated and used for subsequent Southern- and northern-blot analyses. The BAC genomic and EST sequence databases were periodically screened during the course of the project with the ChlI1 gene sequence. BACs and ESTs encoding the Chl I1 gene show that it maps to chromosome IV at 39.4 cM. A second open reading frame with very high homology to the Chl I1 gene was identified on TAC clone K15122 (GenBank accession no. AB016870), which is located on chromosome V between 91 and 101 cM. An EST of this Chl I2 gene was identified (GenBank accession no. AO42226). Arabidopsis cv Columbia and Wassilewskija plants were grown on Suc-supplemented media at 80 μmol photons m−2s−1 for 24 h per day, or in soil at 150 μmol photons m−2 s−1 for 16 h per day (CITATION; CITATION). The carotenoids and chlorophylls were extracted, fractionated, and quantified by HPLC and spectrophotometry (CITATION, CITATION). Wild type, and the three ch42 alleles were grown on 2% (w/v) Suc supplemented media for 3 weeks. Leaves were harvested and RNA was extracted using either the TRIzol reagent (Gibco-BRL, Gaithersburg, MD) or by the RNeasy kit (Qiagen, Santa Clarita, CA) by manufacturers' protocols. Twenty micrograms of total RNA was fractionated and blotted as described (CITATION). The northern blots were probed by either the Chl I1genomic fragment and EST or Chl I1 and Chl I2 gene-specific fragments. The gene-specific fragments were PCR-amplified fragments across a 300-bp region that showed the least homology between the two genes. The absence of cross-hybridization to dot blots of the Chl I1 genomic fragment and theChl I2 EST was tested. RT-PCR was performed using gene-specific primers forChl I1 (forward primer, 5′-GCCAATGAGAAGCTGAG-3′; reverse primer, 5′-AGCTGCAAATGGATAAACCG-3′) and Chl I2 (forward primer, 5′-CGAAGAGAAAGACACTGAAATG-3′; reverse primer, 5′-AGC AGCAAACGGATAAACAG-3′) with 500 ng of total RNA. RT and PCR were performed in 50 μL using the Access RT-PCR kit as described by the manufacturer (Promega; 1 μm forward primer, 1 μm reverse primer, 1.5 mm MgS04, 0.1 units μL−1 Tfl DNA polymerase, 0.1 units μL−1 avian myeloblastosis virus reverse transcriptase, and 0.2 mm dNTP). RT was performed for 75 min at 48°C followed by 35 cycles of 1 min at 94°C, 1 min at 60°C, and 1 min at 72°C. Products were analyzed on agarose gels and visualized with ethidium bromide staining. A partial-length Chl I2 cDNA was cloned using RT-PCR as described above (forward primer, 5′-CGAAGAGAAAGACACTGAAATCG-3′; reverse primer, 5′-GAAAACCTC CATAGAACTTC TCGGT-3′). The resulting cDNA was cloned into the pet30c+ vector (Novagen, Madison, WI) to form the plasmid pBP266. The BL21 strain ofE. coli was transformed with pBP266 and cells were grown in 4 mL of Luria-Bertani medium for 4 h. Isopropylthio-β-galactoside (IPTG) was added to a final concentration of 1 mm, and cells were grown for an additional 5 h. After centrifugation, the cell pellets from both the induced (+IPTG) and noninduced (−IPTG) cultures were resuspended in 2 mL of SDS-PAGE sample buffer (125 mm Tris-Cl, pH 6.8, 4% [w/v] SDS, 2% [w/v] 2-mercaptoethanol, 1 mm amino caproic acid, 5 mm benzamidine, 0.001% [w/v] bromphenol blue, and 20% [w/v] glycerol) and boiled for 10 min before SDS-PAGE and western-blot analysis. Total proteins for western-blot analyses were extracted in SDS-PAGE sample as described above. Chloroplasts were isolated from 3 g of leaf tissue by grinding in buffer (2 mm EDTA, pH 8.0, 1 mm MgCl2, 1 mmMnCl2, 50 mm4-[2-hydroxyethyl]-1-piperazineethanesulfonic acid [HEPES]-KOH, pH 7.5, and 330 mm sorbitol) and separation on a 40%/80% (v/v) Percoll gradient. Proteins from isolated chloroplasts were extracted in SDS-PAGE sample buffer. Chloroplast proteins, total plant proteins, and recombinant CHL I2 were separated by SDS-PAGE and transferred to Immobilon-P membrane (Millipore, Bedford, MA) as previously described (CITATION). Immunostaining was performed with either antiserum to CHL I at a 1:1,000 dilution, antiserum to CHL D at a 1:1,000 dilution, or antiserum to Rubisco (large subunit) at a 1:2,000 dilution followed by secondary staining with alkaline phosphatase-conjugated goat-anti-rabbit serum (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). Colorimetric development with 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indoyl phosphate and nitroblue tetrazolium was utilized to visualize protein bands (CITATION). Attached leaves from wild-type and ch42-3 plants were labeled for 5 h with 125 μCi of a [35S]Met/Cys mixture as previously described (CITATION). Leaves were homogenized, and labeled CHL I1 and CHL I2 proteins were immunoprecipitated with polyclonal CHL I antiserum as previously described (CITATION) and isolated using protein-A CL-4B Sepharose (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis) as described previously (CITATION). Proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE as described above and visualized by autoradiography. Precursor proteins were expressed in a coupled transcription-translation system (Promega), and import assays were carried out in isolated pea chloroplasts as previously described (CITATION; CITATION).
