!~ABS~! E2F transcription factors are major regulators of cell proliferation, and each factor contributes differently to cell cycle control. Arabidopsis contains six E2F homologs, of which three are proteins that exhibit an overall similarity to animal E2Fs and interact with DPa and DPb to stimulate DNA binding. Here we describe the other three E2F-like proteins fromArabidopsis, E2L1–3, which have two copies of a domain with a limited similarity only to the DNA binding domain of E2F. Unlike known E2Fs, the three E2L proteins failed to interact with DPa and DPb and could efficiently bind E2F sites in a monomeric form through the dual-type domain. Transfection assays revealed that E2Ls repress the transcription of reporter genes under the control of E2F-regulated promoters, indicating that E2Ls function to antagonize transactivation mediated by E2F·DP. When fused to green fluorescence protein, E2L1 and E2L3 were predominantly localized to the nucleus whereas E2L2 was detected in both the nucleus and cytoplasm. Because the transcripts of E2Ls were abundant in meristematic rather than fully differentiated tissues, E2Ls may balance the activities of E2F·DP and play a role in restraining cell proliferation. 
!~RES~! TheArabidopsis genome encodes three E2F proteins that exhibit an overall similarity to animal E2F proteins (CITATION, CITATION). Surveying theArabidopsis genome sequence has revealed that the genome contains more three E2F-like genes exhibiting a limited similarity to E2F. We isolated the cDNA encoding the three E2F-like proteins, designated E2L1, E2L2, and E2L3, by RT-PCR based on the open reading frames predicted from the genome sequence. The E2L1–3 cDNAs encoded proteins with 359, 354, and 403 amino acids, respectively, which exhibited 57, 38, and 42% amino acid identity between E2L1/E2L2, E2L1/E2L3, and E2L2/E2L3, respectively. Strikingly homologous regions among these proteins, DB1 and DB2, are homologous to the DNA binding domain of animal and plant E2Fs (Fig. 1). The DB1 and DB2 domains of E2L1 share 36 and 31% identical (60 and 46% similar) amino acids, respectively, with the DNA binding domain of human E2F-1. No other region of the E2Ls exhibited similarity to conserved domains of E2F, including the dimerization domain, marked box, and Rb binding domain.  [[FIGURE]] The similarity of E2Ls to the DNA binding domain of E2F suggests the ability of E2Ls to bind DNA. We analyzed the DNA binding activity by electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs) using recombinant thioredoxin (Trx) proteins fused with E2Ls and double-stranded oligonucleotide probes containing E2F sites. All the E2L fusion proteins bound to a te2f-1 probe, which contains an E2F site present in the tobacco PCNA promoter (CITATION), but not to an mte2f-1 probe, a mutant of te2f-1 (Fig.2). A te2f-α probe, which contains another class of E2F-binding site conserved among potential E2F-regulated genes in Arabidopsis as well as the te2f-1 site (CITATION), also bound these proteins with a slightly decreased activity. The observed DNA binding specificity of E2Ls was the same as that of rice E2F proteins (OsE2F1 and OsE2F2) and an OsE2F1·DP complex (CITATION). Furthermore, E2Ls appeared to be efficient in binding DNA at low concentrations, suggesting no requirement of other factors for the activity.  [[FIGURE]] To determine the role of the conserved domains of E2Ls in DNA binding, we tested the ability of E2L1 to bind DNA by EMSA using recombinant Trx-E2L1 proteins with a deletion (Fig.3 A). E2L1ΔC, an E2L1 mutant with a deletion of the C-terminal 127 amino acid residues, retained the ability to bind the te2f-1 probe with no apparent loss of activity (Fig. 3 B). Incidentally, the mobilities of these shifted bands were similar partly due to a C-terminally fused portion derived from the vector sequence in the pET-E2LΔC construct. When either the DB2 or DB1 domain was deleted from E2L1 (E2L1DB1 or E2L1DB2), a complete loss of the activity was observed. Similarly, the DNA binding domain from AtE2F3 (AF3DB), an Arabidopsis E2F protein, had no ability to bind the DNA probe. The Trx-E2L1DB1, -E2L1DB2, and -AF3DB proteins did not bind to the probe even at a higher concentration (data not shown). These results indicate that E2L1 requires both DB1 and DB2 to bind the E2F site.  [[FIGURE]] E2F proteins interact with DP proteins to bind DNA whereas E2Ls appear to efficiently bind DNA by themselves. To determine whether E2Ls interact with DP proteins and the DNA binding activity is affected by the interaction, we first measured the activity of E2L1 for the interaction with Arabidopsis DP proteins, DPa and DPb, by the yeast two-hybrid assay. When E2L1 was used as prey, it did not activate an LacZ reporter gene by the coexpression of DPa and DPb used as bait, indicating that E2L1 interacts with neither DPa nor DPb (Fig. 4 A). Moreover, the E2L1 constructs as prey and bait did not interact with each other, indicating no ability to form a homodimer. In contrast, AtE2F3 used as prey had the ability to interact with both DPa and DPb, as demonstrated by high levels of β-galactosidase activity. But AtE2F3 as prey did not interact with E2L1 used as bait. Similarly, when AtE2F1 and AtE2F2 were used as prey, no β-galactosidase activity was observed for the interaction with E2L1 used as bait (data not shown), indicating that E2L1 also can not interact with AtE2Fs.  [[FIGURE]] By EMSA with in vitro translation products of E2L1 andArabidopsis E2Fs and DPs, we next examined a possible change in the DNA binding activity of E2L1. An in vitro translation product of E2L1 efficiently bound to the te2f-1 probe whereas no other related proteins (AtE2F2, AtE2F3, DPa, and DPb) exhibited activity to bind the probe (Fig. 4 B). Cotranslation products of E2L1 exhibited neither changes in DNA binding activity for E2L1 nor any newly shifted bands other than the original band of E2L1. Although AtE2F3 formed a complex with DPa to bind the probe, as shown by a low mobility shift band in the last lane, this complex did not appear to cause a significant change in the high mobility band of E2L1. It is noted that the calculated molecular mass of the AtE2F3·DPa complex (∼86 kDa) roughly corresponds to a homodimeric form of E2L1 (82 kDa: 2 times 41 kDa), indicating that the high mobility band of the E2L1·DNA complex is derived from the monomeric E2L1 bound to DNA but not the dimeric protein. These results indicate that E2L1 does not interact with DP and E2F proteins and bind to DNA in a monomeric form.  To examine the transcriptional regulatory function of E2Ls, we carried out transfection assays by microprojectile bombardment of suspension-cultured tobacco cells. Reporter constructs containing the bacterial β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene fused with the tobacco (NtPCNA) or rice PCNA promoter (OsPCNA), which contain functional E2F sites (CITATION), exhibited a moderate GUS expression in transfected tobacco cells (Fig.5 A). When either expression construct containing the E2L1, E2L2, or E2L3 cDNA under the control of the CaMV35S promoter was transfected with the reporter gene, the expression of the reporter genes, especially from the rice promoter, was substantially decreased, although E2L2 did not affect the tobacco promoter (Fig. 5 A). In contrast, the 35S promoter or its truncated core promoter was not affected by the expression of E2Ls (data not shown). A rice PCNA promoter truncated to −263 (OsPCNAΔ), which retained the E2F site, was also repressed to an extent comparable to the full-length promoter by the E2L1 expression. These results indicate that the repression is mediated by the E2F site. These reporter constructs were transactivated by coexpression of AtE2F1 and DPa (Fig. 5 B). Expression of either E2L protein antagonized the transactivation. E2L1 appeared to have the greatest ability to repress the promoter activated by exogenously expressed E2F·DP as well as by endogenous factors. These results indicate that the E2L proteins act as repressors of E2F-regulated promoters probably by competing for E2F sites.  [[FIGURE]] We then examined the subcellular localization of E2Ls using proteins fused with the green fluorescence protein (GFP). When the fusion proteins (GFP-E2L1, -E2L2, and -E2L3) were expressed in cultured tobacco cells, GFP fluorescence was observed mainly in the nucleus, although GFP-E2L2 was detected in both the cytoplasm and nucleus (Fig.6). The incomplete nuclear localization correlate with a less effective repression of the PCNA promoters compared with E2L1 and -3, as shown in Fig. 5. In contrast, GFP fused with the bacterial β-glucuronidase (GUS), which is a cytoplasmic protein in plant cells, was detected mainly in the cytoplasm (Fig.6 D). These results suggest that the E2L proteins are nuclear and carry an intrinsic nuclear localization signal. Consistently, there is a potential bipartite nuclear localization signal (KRX 11KRXK) in the C-terminal region, which is conserved in all the E2L proteins.  [[FIGURE]] Finally, we performed RT-PCR analysis to examine the cell specificity of the accumulation of E2L transcripts (Fig. 7). First-strand cDNAs were synthesized with total RNA extracted from mature leaves at a stage before flower initiation (ML), young immature leaves containing leaf primordia and meristems (YL), young developing stalks located under immature inflorescence (YS), mature grown stalks (MS), young developing flower buds (YF), and mature open flowers (MF). cDNA synthesis was assessed by RT-PCR with primers specific for the 18 S rRNA gene. RT-PCR analysis using primer sets specific for the E2L cDNAs showed that the E2L1 transcript was abundant in young developing organs and tissues such as the meristematic leaves, young stalks, and immature flower buds, whereas it was less common in mature organs such as adult leaves and stalks, as shown by the amplified fragments (Fig. 7). Similar patterns were observed for the accumulation of the E2L2 and E2L3 transcripts, indicating that the three E2L transcripts are preferentially expressed in growing tissues. Unlike the E2L1 transcript, however, the E2L2 and E2L3 transcripts were less expressed at the developing stages in stalk and abundant at both stages of flower development, indicating that both the E2L2 andE2L3 genes are regulated in a manner different from theE2L1 gene.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Suspension-cultured tobacco cells were established from calli of Nicotiana tobacum cv. Sumsun NN and maintained as described previously (CITATION). Arabidopsisplants (A. thaliana ecotype Columbia) were grown in pots in growth chambers at 20 °C under 16 h of illumination per day.  The E2Ls cDNAs were cloned by RT-PCR amplification with mRNA isolated from young wholeArabidopsis plants, based on open reading frames predicted from Arabidopsis genomic sequences. The AtE2F2 (GenBankTM accession numbers AF242581/AB050114), AtE2F3 (AJ294534/AF242582), DPa (AJ294531), and DPb (AJ294532) cDNAs were isolated by RT-PCR based on the cDNA sequences in the data bases. The N-terminal primers were designed to containSpeI/NcoI sites for E2L1 and BamHI sites for E2L2 and E2L3, and all the C-terminal primers containedXhoI sites at their 5′-ends. The amplified fragments were subcloned into the pBluescript SK+ vector (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). The sequence integrity of all the amplified fragments was confirmed by sequencing with ABI DNA sequencers (Applied Biosystems).  The cDNA fragments excised from the subcloned plasmids were inserted into the pET-32a vector (Novagen, Madison, WI) and used for production of recombinant proteins. Deletion mutants of E2L1, E2L1ΔC, E2LDB1, and E2LDB2, were generated by insertion of the following fragments into the pET-32a or -32c vector; an NcoI-HindIII fragment from the E2L1 cDNA (for AL1ΔC), and NcoI-XhoI fragments from PCR products amplified with the M13 forward vector primer and 5′-GGACTCAACTCGAGTGAATTCTCTGGGAGATGGTGAG (for E2LDB1), and 5′-GGACTCAACCATGGGATCCGGAATGAAAGAGAAGTTTGC and the M13 reverse vector primer (for E2LDB2). For AF3DB, a fragment amplified by PCR with the AtE2F3 cDNA and a primer set (5′-GGACTCAACCATGGAATTCTGTCGTTATGACAGTTCTTTAG-3′ and 5′-GGACTCAACTCGAGTGGATCCTACGTCAGCATCCTCATC-3′), was inserted into the pET-32a vector. For the yeast two-hybrid assays, the E2L1, AtE2F2, AtE2F3, DPa, and DPb cDNAs were inserted into the pGBKT7 vector (CLONTECH, Palo Alto, CA) to generate bait constructs, pGB-E2L1, -AF2, -AF3, -DPa, and-DPb. The E2L1 and AtE2F3 cDNAs were inserted into the pAD-GAL4–2.1 vector (Stratagene) to generate prey constructs pAD-E2L1 and pAD-AF3. For plant expression constructs, the E2Ls, AtE2F3, and DPa cDNAs were inserted into the pCEP5 vector (CITATION) to generate p35S-E2L1, -E2L2 -E2L3, -AF3, and -DPa. The tobacco and rice PCNA promoter reporters,NtPCNA-GUS (CITATION), OsPCNA-GUS, andOsPCNAΔ-GUS, in which the rice constructs were generated by changing the binary vector of PCB2K and PCBΔ2 (CITATION) to the pUC19 vector, were used for transfection assays. To generate expression constructs for proteins fused with green fluorescence protein (GFP), the E2Ls cDNA fragments and the GUS coding sequence were inserted into the SpeI and XhoI sites of pCEP-GFP, a slightly modified version (CITATION) of the 35S-sGFP vector (CITATION), which was kindly provided by Yasuo Niwa.  The production and purification of recombinant thioredoxin (Trx) fusion proteins with E2Ls were performed as described previously (CITATION). The conditions for EMSAs were as described previously (CITATION).  Yeast manipulations, including culture, transformation, and the yeast two-hybrid assay with the strain SFY526 were performed as described previously (CITATION).  Proteins were synthesized by coupled transcription-translation with a TnT wheat germ extract kit (Promega, Madison, WI) and T7 RNA polymerase using pGB-E2L1, -AF2, -AF3, -DPa, and -DPb. Reactions were performed with 1 μg of total plasmid DNA in 25 μl of solution.  Transfection of plasmid DNA into the cultured tobacco cells by microprojectile bombardment was performed as described (CITATION). Bombarded samples were cultured at 28 °C for 16–17 h in the dark and used for luciferase and GUS assays as described (CITATION). All GUS values were normalized using luciferase activities. All experiments were carried out in triplicate and independently performed at least two times.  Transfection of the GFP constructs into the suspension-cultured tobacco cells was conducted by microprojectile bombardment with 0.5 mg of gold particles coated with a total of 1 μg of plasmid, as described above. GFP expression in the cells was observed 17–20 h after the transfection using an epifluorescence microscope, model AX70 (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan), with a MWIA/GFP filter cube (excitation filter, 460–490 nm; barrier filter, 510–550 nm).  Total RNA was isolated using the TRIzol procedure, according to the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen, Gaithersburg, MD), and first-strand cDNA was synthesized with 5 μg of total RNA, 0.5 μg of an oligo dT primer, and ReverTra Ace (Toyobo, Osaka, Japan). RT-PCR was performed using 0.5–2.0 μl of a 1:30 dilution of the cDNA products and the primer set used for isolation of the E2L cDNAs. For analyses ofArabidopsis 18 S rRNA expression, we used the primers 5′-ACAATCTAAATCCCTTAACGAGGATC-3′ and 5′-ACTAGGACGGTATCTGATCGTCTTC-3′. All the primers were labeled with [γ-32P]ATP and T4 polynucleotide kinase. PCR products were amplified for 32 cycles for E2L1, 36 cycles for E2L2 and E2L3, and 16 cycles for 18 S rRNA and separated by electrophoresis on 4% polyacrylamide gel. Gels were dried and autoradiographed using intensifying screens. 
