!~ABS~! In Arabidopsis, phytochrome A (phyA) is the primary photoreceptor mediating various plant responses to far‐red (FR) light. Here we show that phyA signaling involves a combinatorial action of downstream intermediates, which controls overlapping yet distinctive sets of FR responses. FHY3 is a prominent phyA signaling intermediate sharing structural similarity to FAR1, a previously identified phyA signaling component. The fhy3 and far1 mutants display similar yet distinctive defects in phyA signaling; however, overexpression of either FHY3 or FAR1 suppresses the mutant phenotype of both genes. Moreover, overexpression of partial fragments of FHY3 can cause a dominant‐negative interference phenotype on phyA signaling that is stronger than those of the fhy3 or far1 null mutants. Further, we demonstrate that FHY3 and FAR1 are capable of homo‐ and hetero‐interaction. Our data indicate that FHY3, together with FAR1, defines a key module in a signaling network underlying phyA‐mediated FR light responses.
!~RES~! To identify new components in the phyA signaling pathway, we screened two independent T‐DNA mutated Arabidopsis populations under FRc to select mutants with elongated hypocotyls (see Materials and methods). A number of mutants were identified and subjected to genetic complementation tests with previously identified mutants of similar phenotype. Two new mutations were found to be allelic to the previously identified fhy3 mutant (designated fhy3‐1; Whitelam et al., 1993) and were designated fhy3‐2 and fhy3‐3. Seven additional new alleles (designated fhy3‐4 to fhy3‐10) were isolated in a previous screen for the far1 mutants and kindly provided by Dr Quail's group (Table I; Hudson et al., 1999). [[TABLE]] When compared with wild‐type (WT) seedlings, the fhy3 mutants display a long‐hypocotyl phenotype and reduced cotyledon expansion under FRc but no significant phenotypes under continuous red (R) or blue light (B) (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). There are no observable defects when the seedlings are grown in the dark or under white light (data not shown), indicating that the fhy3 mutant phenotype is light dependent and specific to FRc. This FRc phenotype is not due to reduced levels of active phyA or to a deficiency in chromophore biosynthesis (Whitelam et al., 1993). Thus, FHY3 likely represents a signaling intermediate for phyA. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Among the previously identified phyA signaling mutants, fhy1, fhy3, far1 and fin219 display elongated hypocotyls under FRc (Whitelam et al., 1993; Hudson et al., 1999; Hsieh et al., 2000), and fhy3 exhibits the most pronounced long‐hypocotyl phenotype under our growth condition. On the other hand, the spa1 mutants have an increased sensitivity to FRc and shorter hypocotyls (Hoecker et al., 1998; FIG-REF and FIG-REF). To examine the genetic relationships among these loci, selective pair‐wise double mutants were constructed, and their light‐dependent phenotypes were examined and compared with their respective parental mutants and WT controls. As shown in FIG-REF and FIG-REF, under a high fluence rate of FRc, fhy3‐1/far1‐2, far1‐2/fhy1‐1 and fhy3‐1/fhy1‐1 double mutants possess longer hypocotyls and further reduced expansion of cotyledons compared with their respective single parental mutants. This result indicates that these mutations have additive effects in phyA signaling, suggesting that they may act in a parallel fashion. It should be noted that these double mutants have a reduced but not a complete loss of sensitivity to FRc. On the other hand, the fhy3‐1/spa1‐3 double mutant displays a hypocotyl of intermediate length under FRc (FIG-REF and FIG-REF), indicating that these two mutations can compensate each other to some extent. This suggests that there may be no simple downstream/upstream relationship between FHY3 and SPA1. We also examined these double mutants under a wide range of FRc fluence rates, and similar effects were observed to those shown in FIG-REF, although the differences become less pronounced under low fluence rate irradiations (data not shown). In addition, these double mutants display essentially normal responses to R and B light conditions (data not shown). To explore the molecular basis for the developmental defects, we examined the changes in three representative phyA‐dependent gene expression patterns (RBCS, CHS, PORA) in fhy3‐4 and the following available phyA signaling mutants: phyA‐1, fhy1‐1, far1‐2, fin219 and spa1‐3. Seedlings were grown under darkness for 4 days prior to illumination with 4 h of FRc. As shown in FIG-REF, WT seedlings show a clear induction of RBCS and CHS, while the expression of PORA is significantly suppressed. The induction of both RBCS and CHS is almost completely abolished in phyA‐1, fin219 and fhy1‐1, and is severely attenuated in fhy3‐4. No obvious effect was found in far1‐2 (FIG-REF). Notably, RBCS induction is clearly enhanced in spa1‐3, while the induction of CHS seems impaired under this condition (FIG-REF). However, CHS expression is increased in FRc‐grown spa1‐3 seedlings (data not shown), consistent with the observed increasing accumulation of anthocyanin in this mutant (Hoecker et al., 1998). The repressive effect of FRc on PORA expression is severely compromized in phyA‐1 and fhy1‐1, but apparently normal in all other mutant backgrounds examined (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Previously it has been shown that phyA is also involved in R‐mediated CHS induction (Barnes et al., 1996a), therefore we also examined the effects of fhy3 and various phyA signaling mutants on this response. Similarly, seedlings were grown under darkness for 4 days prior to illumination with 4 h of continuous R. As shown in FIG-REF, CHS induction is dramatically reduced in phyB and slightly impaired in phyA‐1, indicating that both phyA and phyB are involved in R‐mediated induction of CHS expression, with phyB playing a major role in this response. Interestingly, this response is almost completely abolished in fin219 and is slightly increased in spa1‐3. The effects of fhy3‐4, fhy1‐1 and far1‐2 on this response are minimal. Although two new fhy3 alleles (fhy3‐2 and fhy3‐3) were identified from two independent T‐DNA mutagenesis populations, co‐segregation tests show that neither mutation is linked to the T‐DNA insertion (data not shown). Therefore, we generated an F2 mapping population by crossing the fhy3‐2 allele (COL ecotype) to WT ecotype Ler. We mapped the FHY3 locus to a region of chromosome III between the SSLP markers nga162 and GAPab (Konieczny and Ausubel, 1993; Bell and Ecker, 1994). Further mapping with several newly developed SSLP, CAP and RFLP markers delimited FHY3 to the region flanked by two RFLP markers, mi142 and mi268. A set of BAC clones covering this genomic region was obtained from the Arabidopsis stock center. New RFLP markers were developed from these BAC clones and used to further locate the FHY3 locus to a single BAC clone, F2F24 (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] The F2F24 BAC clone was used to screen an Arabidopsis cDNA library derived from dark‐grown seedlings and four different types of cDNA were isolated. Sequence analysis revealed that one of the cDNAs encodes a protein with similarity to FAR1, a nuclear protein required for phyA signaling (Hudson et al., 1999). Thus, we sequenced the genomic region of this gene for eight fhy3 alleles. In each case, a single mutation in the putative open reading frame was identified (Table I), providing convincing evidence that this cDNA clone defines the FHY3 gene. Comparison of the cDNA with the genomic sequence revealed that the FHY3 gene is composed of eight exons and seven introns (FIG-REF). FHY3, together with FAR1, FRS1–FRS3 (Hudson et al., 1999) and eight new members designated FRS4–FRS11, comprise a multigene family present in the Arabidopsis genome. Interestingly, FHY3 and FAR1 share the highest homology (50% identity and 75% similarity) to each other and they compose a branch of this gene family (FIG-REF). Moreover, similar proteins have also been identified in other plant species, including monocotyledon plants (Hudson et al., 1999), indicating that this family of genes is conserved throughout the evolution of the plant kingdom. The FHY3 cDNA encodes a predicted polypeptide of 839 amino acids, identical to that of AT3g22170 annotated through the Arabidopsis genome project and with a secondary structure similar to FAR1 (Hudson et al., 1999). The residues between 603 and 699 are predicted to form a coiled‐coil motif. In addition, FHY3 contains a basic region (KKKNPTKKRK, residues 709–718, basic residues in bold), which could act as a nuclear localization signal (NLS) (FIG-REF). However, it should be pointed out that putative NLS motifs are only identified in some of the family members, such as FAR1, FHY3 and FRS2, but not in others, such as FRS1 and FRS3. Furthermore, these proteins may also differ in their secondary structures, as some members (such as FRS3) lack the coiled‐coil domain identified in the C‐termini of both FHY3 and FAR1, whereas other members possess multiple coiled‐coil domains (such as FRS1 and FRS2). These features suggest that those family members may have overlapping as well as distinct functions. To determine whether the expression of FHY3 is light dependent, and also its dependence on phyA, we examined FHY3 transcript levels in dark‐ and FRc‐grown WT seedlings as well as in selected FRc‐grown phyA signaling mutant seedlings. In WT seedlings, the FHY3 transcript level is clearly reduced by FRc treatment as compared with dark treatment. For FRc‐grown seedlings, the FHY3 transcript level is dramatically reduced in fhy3‐1, fin219 and spa1‐3, but is significantly increased in far1‐2 (FIG-REF), indicating that the expression of FHY3 is subject to regulation by phyA and its signaling intermediates FIN219, SPA1 and FAR1. [[FIGURE]] The high homology shared by FHY3 and FAR1 and their similar mutant phenotypes suggest that these two genes may have similar functions. To examine this possibility, we introduced a 35S promoter‐driven myc epitope‐tagged FHY3 cDNA transgene (myc‐FHY3) or a myc‐flag‐HA (MFH) epitope‐tagged FAR1 cDNA transgene (MFH‐FAR1; FIG-REF) into both fhy3‐1 and far1‐2. As expected, a functional complementation of each parental mutant by overexpressing its corresponding gene was observed (FIG-REF, a and c, and FIG-REF). We also observed an apparent suppression of the mutant phenotype by overexpressing the homologous gene (FIG-REF, b and d, and FIG-REF). It should be noted that we did not observe a strongly enhanced FRc response when the same transgenes were introduced into a WT background, nor was a suppression effect detected when the same transgenes were introduced into other FRc‐specific long‐hypocotyl mutants such as fhy1 and fin219 (data not shown). Moreover, dark‐grown seedlings overexpressing FHY3 and FAR1 do not exhibit any detectable phenotypes (data not shown), suggesting that these two proteins share a bona fide functional overlap and that their activation requires activated phyA. [[FIGURE]] To determine the subcellular localization of FHY3, the full‐length FHY3 cDNA was translationally fused to the 3′ end of the GUS reporter gene under the control of the strong 35S promoter (GUS‐FHY3; FIG-REF). The transgene successfully rescued the fhy3 mutant phenotype (FIG-REF, e and f). In the rescued transgenic plants, the GUS–FHY3 fusion protein is exclusively found in the nucleus under both dark and FRc treatment (FIG-REF, a and b). This localization pattern is similar to that of a constitutive nuclear protein, GUS–NIa (FIG-REF, c and d), indicating that FHY3 is a constitutive nuclear protein. To examine the structure–function relationship of FHY3, we generated transgenic plants overexpressing either the N‐terminal (N1–541) or C‐terminal (C473–839) portions of FHY3 (FIG-REF) in a WT background (COL ecotype). As shown in FIG-REF and FIG-REF, heterozygous transgenic plants harboring a single T‐DNA insertion of the transgene (either N1–541 or C473–839) produce offspring segregating in a 1:2:1 ratio of long‐, medium‐ and short‐hypocotyl seedlings. These long‐hypocotyl plants are homozygous transgenic plants, the medium ones are heterozygous for the transgene and the short ones are non‐transgenic WT plants. This result suggests that these transgenes cause a dosage‐dependent dominant‐negative effect on phyA‐mediated inhibition of hypocotyl elongation in response to FRc. Notably, homozygous transgenic seedlings overexpressing the C‐terminal portion of FHY3 (the E7 line) display a completely etiolated phenotype under FRc, indistinguishable from the phenotype of the phyA‐1 null mutant (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). The same plants have an essentially normal response to R and a slightly reduced response to B light (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). This result indicates that overexpression of the FHY3 C‐terminal fragment in the homozygous seedlings not only impaired the endogenous FHY3 function but also completely blocked phyA signaling. It is plausible that the overabundant mutated form of FHY3 titrated out all normal FHY3 interactive partners and thus completely blocked phyA signaling. This would be consistent with a critical role of FHY3 in the phyA signaling network. The structural similarity and genetic interactions between FHY3 and FAR1 prompted us to examine their possible protein–protein interaction. We first examined the FAR1 and FHY3 interaction using a yeast two‐ hybrid assay. Both genes were cloned into the yeast vectors as fusion proteins with the LexA DNA‐binding domain and the GAL4 activation domain (AD; Ausubel et al., 1999). As shown in FIG-REF, although both LexA–FHY3 and LexA–FAR1 can auto‐activate the β‐galactosidase reporter gene to certain extents, when combined with AD–FHY3 or AD–FAR1, the activities of the reporter gene are significantly increased (3‐ to 5‐fold). In addition, a C‐terminal fragment of FHY3 (amino acids 541–839) containing the coiled‐coil domain retains the ability to interact with FAR1, although at a reduced strength. These data suggest that FHY3 and FAR1 are capable of forming homocomplexes with themselves or heterocomplexes with one another. [[FIGURE]] To substantiate the physical interaction between FHY3 and FAR1, we conducted an in vivo co‐immunoprecipitation assay with F2 plants from a cross of GUS–FHY3 and MFH–FAR1 transgenic plants. As shown in FIG-REF, a western blot probed with a GUS antibody detected the GUS–FHY3 fusion protein from the total extract of the F2 seedlings and F2 seedlings subjected to immunoprecipitation with either a myc‐ or a flag‐epitope antibody. However, GUS–FHY3 fusion protein was not detectable from the total extract of wild‐type seedlings or from immunoprecipitated F2 seedlings processed without adding the antibodies. The MFH–FAR1 fusion protein was also detected from the same immunoprecipitated samples on a separate western blot probed with a flag antibody, suggesting a physical association of FHY3 and FAR1 in planta. The inability to observe the MFH–FAR1 fusion protein in the total extract of F2 seedlings with the flag antibody at the same exposure is due to the low expression level of the tagged protein in the total extract.
!~MM~! The fhy3‐1 mutant has been described previously (Whitelam et al., 1993). fhy3‐2 was isolated by screening a T‐DNA mutated Arabidopsis population generated by Steve Dellaporta‘s laboratory at Yale University (ecotype COL; Galbiati et al., 2000). fhy3‐3 was isolated by screening the Feldmann's T‐DNA population under FRc condition (ecotype WS); fhy3‐4 to fhy3‐10 were isolated during the far1 mutant screen (Hudson et al., 1999) and kindly provided by Dr Quail's group (No‐0 ecotype). Allelism of these mutations was determined by standard genetic crossing. Other mutant plants used in this study included phyA‐1, fhy1‐1, phyB(hy3), phyA/B and hy5‐1 (all ecotype Ler); fin219 (ecotype COL); spa1‐3 (ecotype RLD); far1‐2 (ecotype No‐0) (Whitelam et al., 1993; Hoecker et al., 1998; Hsieh et al., 2000). Double mutants were constructed by crossing their respective parental mutations. Putative double mutants were selected from FRc‐grown F2 seedlings and backcrossed to their respective parental mutants to confirm their genotypes. Surface sterilization and cold treatment of the seeds, and seedling growth conditions for different light sources were described previously (Hsieh et al., 2000). Seedlings were grown on GM agar plates containing 0.3% sucrose for mutant screening and phenotypic analysis. For hypocotyl length measurements, 20–30 seedlings for each genotype were measured under a dissecting microscope with a ruler. Total RNA was isolated from 4‐day‐old seedlings using the Qiagen RNeasy Plant Mini prep kit. The seedlings were grown under darkness or FRc for 4 days. For the light shift experiment, the seedlings were grown under darkness for 4 days prior to illumination with 4 h of FRc or R. Ten micrograms of total RNA were loaded onto the gel and blotted to nylon membrane. The CHS probe was derived from a 0.9 kb EcoRI fragment containing the Arabidopsis CHS coding region (Hsieh et al., 2000). The RBCS probe has been described previously (Torii et al., 1999). The PORA gene probe was a 580 bp genomic fragment generated by PCR using primers CGCGACTTCAACTCCATCAG and GGATCCAACAATGATG. The FHY3 probe was derived from an EcoRI fragment of the cDNA clone. Equal loading of RNA was verified by ethidium bromide staining as well as by rehybridizing the blots with an 18S rDNA probe (Deng et al., 1991). Probes were labeled by random priming. Hybridization and washing were conducted according to a standard method (Deng et al., 1991). For generating the mapping population, the fhy3‐2 allele (ecotype COL) was crossed with the Ler wild type. Long‐hypocotyl seedlings under FRc light were selected in the F2 generation and transferred to soil for growth. A total of ∼2200 recombinant chromosomes were used for fine‐mapping analysis. After the FHY3 gene was narrowed down to a single BAC clone (F2F24), this BAC clone was used to screen the cDNA libraries (CD4‐13 through CD4‐16 combined) obtained from ABRC. A total of 22 cDNA clones representing four different genes were isolated. A full‐length cDNA clone (14) for FHY3 was sequenced and verified by sequencing the genomic region of eight different fhy3 alleles and their corresponding ecotypes (Table I). To generate a c‐myc epitope (MEQKLISEEDL)‐tagged FHY3, the N‐terminal BamHI–BglII fragment of the FHY3 cDNA clone (14) was replaced by a PCR fragment using primers CACGGATCCATGGAACAGAAGCTTATTAGCGAAGAAGACCTTGACGAAACTAGTATGGATATAGACCTTCGACTACATTCAGGTGACCTTTGCAAAGGAGATGATGAG and CTGATCATCGCCCAGATCTACTGC to generate a modified full‐length FHY3 cDNA clone (designated 14A1A) with the added c‐myc epitope at the N‐terminus. Then a BamHI–SalI fragment containing the full‐length FHY3 coding region was cloned into the same sites of the binary vector pZPY122 (Serino et al., 1999), thus placing the FHY3 gene under the control of the 35S promoter. This clone was designated myc‐FHY3. The N‐terminal fragment of FHY3 was deleted from myc‐FHY3 by digesting with SpeI and re‐ligating to generate the N‐terminal deletion construct (designated myc‐FHY3C473–839). The C‐terminal fragment of FHY3 was deleted by digesting myc‐FHY3 with AvrII and SalI, filling in both ends and re‐ligating to generate the C‐terminal deletion construct (designated myc‐FHY3N1‐541). For localization of the FHY3 protein, a BamHI–BglII fragment containing the 35S promoter and the GUS gene coding region was derived from the pPZP222‐GUS‐m/hCOP1 construct (Wang et al., 1999) and cloned into the BamHI site of myc‐FHY3 in the correct orientation to generate a construct designated GUS‐FHY3 (in which the GUS gene is fused in‐frame with the N‐terminus of the myc‐FHY3 transgene). Two primers (CGCGGATCCAATTGCGGATGGATTTGCAAGAGAATCTGGTTAGTGATGC and GCGCTCGAGACATCTTGTCATTGCAACTCAGCTCCATG) were used in an RT–PCR reaction to obtain the full‐length FAR1 gene cDNA, and the PCR product was cloned into the TA cloning vector Topo 2.1 (Invitrogen) to generate the clone TA‐FAR1. A BamHI–SalI fragment containing the full‐length FAR1 coding region was released from TA‐FAR1 and cloned into the BamHI–XhoI sites of the binary vector pZPY112 (Serino et al., 1999) to generate a construct named pZPY112‐FAR1 (in which the FAR1 gene is driven by the 35S promoter). To generate a myc‐flag‐HA epitope‐tagged FAR1 gene construct in the binary vector, two complementary oligos (CTAGAATGGAACAGAAGCTTATTAGCGAAGAAGACCTTGACGTCGACTACAAAGACGATGACGATAAAGCATACCCATATGACGTACCGGATTACGCAAG and GATCCTTGCGTAATCCGGTACGTCATATGGGTATGCTTTATCGTCATCGTCTTTGTAGTCGACGTCAAGGTCTTCTTCGCTAATAAGCTTCTGTTCCATT) were annealed in vitro by mixing together in 1× Taq polymerase buffer and heating to 70°C for 30 min, then slowly cooling to room temperature. The annealing product was ethanol precipitated and resuspended in water. The resulting double‐stranded DNA (coding for the myc‐flag‐HA epitope) has ready‐to‐ligate restriction sites at both ends (XbaI at one end, BamHI at the other) and was ligated into the XbaI–BamHI sites of the binary vector clone pZPY112‐FAR1 to generate a clone termed MFH‐FAR1. All the above constructs were sequence confirmed. Those binary vector constructs were electroporated into the Agrobacterium strain GV3101 and used to transform Arabidopsis. Transgenic plants containing transgenes from the pZPY122 vector were selected with gentamycin (100 μg/ml). Transgenic plants derived from pZPY112 vector constructs were selected with kanamycin (50 μg/ml). A total of ∼30 independent T1 transgenic plants were selected and grown to T2 generation for each plant transformation construct. Drug‐resistance tests were conducted for each T2 transgenic line to determine the number of T‐DNA insertions. Phenotype analysis was conducted with single T‐DNA insertion lines. For each construct, the transgenic plant phenotypes reported here were observed in at least three independent lines examined. All LexA fusion constructs were cloned as a translational fusion to the LexA DNA‐binding domain of vector pEG202, and all activation domain fusions were cloned in‐frame with the HA‐tagged GAL4 acidic activation domain of vector pJG4‐5 (Torii et al., 1998). For the FHY3 gene, the N‐terminal BamHI–BglII fragment of the FHY3 cDNA clone was replaced by a PCR fragment using primers CCGAATTCGGATCCATGGATATAGACCTTCGACTACATTCAGG and CTGATCATC GCCCAGATCTACTGC. This modified FHY3 cDNA cloned was termed 14F1, in which an internal BglII site was mutated without changing the amino acid sequence of this fragment, which facilitated downstream cloning efforts. An EcoRI fragment containing the N‐terminal 250 amino acids of FHY3 was cloned into the EcoRI site of pEG202 and pJG4‐5 vectors in the correct orientation to generate LexA‐FHY3N and AD‐FHY3N. Then a XhoI fragment overlapping with the N‐terminal portion of FHY3 and containing the remaining cDNA of FHY3 was cloned into XhoI‐digested LexA‐FHY3N and AD‐FHY3N in the correct orientation to generate LexA‐FHY3 and AD‐FHY3, both of which contain the full‐length FHY3 gene. A BamHI–SalI fragment containing the C‐terminal amino acids 541–839 of FHY3 was generated via PCR using the FHY3 cDNA clone (14) as a template and the primers GGGATCCGACCTCGAGATCCTAGGGAGGAGAACCGAGATGCCACATGT and the T7 primer. This PCR product was cloned into the BamHI–SalI sites of the pEG202 to generate LexA‐FHY3C. Then, an EcoRI fragment containing the insert was released from this construct and cloned into the EcoRI site of pJG4‐5 to generate AD‐FHYC. For the FAR1 gene, a BamHI–XhoI fragment containing the full‐length FAR1 cDNA was released from the clone TA‐FAR1 and ligated into the BamHI–XhoI sites of pEG202 to generate LexA‐FAR1. A MfeI–XhoI fragment containing the full‐length FAR1 coding region was released from TA‐FAR1 and cloned into the EcoRI–XhoI sites of pJG4‐5 to generate AD‐FAR1. Yeast transformation, mating and liquid assay were conducted as described in Ausubel et al. (1999). Light‐grown WT and F2 seedlings of a cross between the GUS–FHY3 and MFH–FAR1 transgenic lines were processed for co‐immunoprecipitation assay in a buffer containing 50 mM Tris pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl2, 0.1% NP‐40, 1 mM PMSF and 1× complete protease inhibitors (Roche). Either a myc‐ or a flag‐epitope antibody and protein A–agarose beads (Sigma) were used to precipitate the immunoprotein complex. SDS–PAGE and western blotting analysis were performed according to standard procedures.
