!~ABS~! E2F transcription factors are required for the progression and arrest of the cell cycle in animals. Like animals, plants have evolved to conserve the E2F family. The Arabidopsis genome encodes E2F and DP proteins that share a high similarity with the animal E2F and DP families. Here, we show that Arabidopsis E2F and DP proteins are not predominantly localized to the nucleus in analyses with green fluorescent protein, and that the complete nuclear localization of some members is driven by the co-expression of their specific partner proteins. Both AtE2F1 and AtE2F3 were translocated to the nucleus and transactivate an E2F reporter gene when co-expressed with DPa but not DPb. In contrast, AtE2F2 was inactive for both nuclear translocation and transactivation even when Dpa or DPb was co-expressed. Because the DNA binding activities of the three E2Fs are equally stimulated by the interaction with DPa or DPb in vitro, the observed transactivation of AtE2F1 and AtE2F3 is DPa specific and nuclear import dependent. A green fluorescent protein fusion with an AtE2F3 mutant, in which a conserved nuclear export signal-like sequence in the dimerization domain was deleted, was localized to the nucleus. Thus, the concomitant nuclear translocation seems to be conferred by the DPa interaction to release an activity that inhibits an intrinsic nuclear import activity of AtE2Fs. Furthermore, the nuclear translocation of AtE2F3 stimulated by DPa was abolished by the deletion of the N-terminal region of AtE2F3, which is conserved among all the E2F proteins identified in plants to date. Replacement of the N-terminal region of AtE2F3 with a canonical nuclear localization signal only partially mimicked the effect of the DPa co-expression, demonstrating the function of plant E2F distinct from that observed for animal E2Fs. These observations suggest that the function of plant E2F and DP proteins is primarily controlled by their nuclear localization mediated by the interaction with specific partner proteins.
!~RES~! We isolated three E2F (AtE2F1 and AtE2F3) and two DP (DPa and DPb) cDNAs from Arabidopsis by reverse transcriptase-PCR based on the sequence information in databases, and their deduced amino acid sequences were identical to those from cDNAs registered in the databases, except for AtE2F2 (accession no. AB050114; see “Materials and Methods”). It seemed that all the cDNAs contain the complete open reading frames, judging from the cDNA sequences including the 5′-untranslated region in the database and the mRNA length estimated from our northern analyses (data not shown). To avoid confusion about designations for the three E2Fs or other animal E2Fs, we have referred to E2F1 (accession no. AF242580) and AtE2Fb (CITATION) as AtE2F1; E2F2 (accession no. AF242581) as AtE2F2; and E2F3 (accession no. AF242582), E2F-4 (accession no. AJ276619), and AtE2Fa (CITATION) as AtE2F3, respectively. The DNA binding ability of AtE2Fs and DPs was tested by electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) with the te2f-1 DNA probe containing an E2F-binding site in a tobacco proliferating cell nuclear antigen promoter (accession no.AB041727). In vitro-translated AtE2Fs or DPs alone did not bind to the probe DNA (Fig. 1, lanes 2–6), although a high concentration of the recombinant thioredoxin fusion proteins with AtE2F2, AtE2F3, or DPa did (data not shown). In contrast, the AtE2F1, AtE2F2, or AtE2F3 product cotranslated with DPa or DPb exhibited DNA binding with a high affinity (lanes 7–12), indicating an increase in the DNA binding activity by the interaction of AtE2Fs with DPs.  [[FIGURE]] We further measured the strength of the interaction of each E2F with DPa or DPb by the yeast two-hybrid assay (Fig.2). Although in the DNA binding assay AtE2Fs exhibited no differential increase in DNA binding between the complex with DPa and DPb, the yeast assay revealed a differential specificity in the dimerization affinity. AtE2F1 and AtE2F3 interacted more preferentially with DPa than with DPb, whereas AtE2F2 did better with DPb.  [[FIGURE]] To determine the transactivational activity dependent on the interaction of AtE2Fs and DPs, we carried out cotransfection assays with an E2F reporter gene, te2fR4-luc, which contains four copies of the E2F-binding site (te2f-1) in the tobacco proliferating cell nuclear antigen promoter, by microprojectile bombardment of suspension-cultured tobacco cells. When the reporter plasmid was cotransfected with either expression plasmid containing the AtE2F1, AtE2F2, AtE2F3, DPa, or DPb cDNA under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter to tobacco cells, no significant activation of the reporter gene was observed. For AtE2F1 and AtE2F3, only a 3- and 2-fold activation was found, respectively, compared with the control with the reporter plasmid alone (Fig. 3). When the AtE2F1 or AtE2F3 plasmid was transfected with the DPa plasmid, activation of the reporter gene was increased about 34- and 50-fold, respectively. The average increase in activation for AtE2F3/DPa, based on data from 17 independent experiments, was 64-fold with ansd of 53-fold. The fluctuation of the transactivation ratio is dependent on the growth state of the cells used; more actively dividing cells tended to have a higher background level of reporter gene activity, leading to a low activation ratio. The increase in the Luc activity caused by these factors was dependent on the E2F sites in the reporter gene because a mutant reporter gene, mte2fR4-luc, was activated only at low level when cotransfected with the AtE2F3 and DPa plasmids. Although the mutant E2F site did not bind both the cotranslation product of AtE2F3/DPa and the recombinant AtE2F proteins (data not shown), the weak transactivation observed for the mutant reporter gene may be because of an increased binding activity of the multimerized mutant site or some weak binding sites present in the vector or the core promoter sequences. Cotransfection with the DPb, in contrast to DPa, plasmid led to only about a 10-fold activation for AtE2F1 or AtE2F3 (Fig. 3). Furthermore, unlike AtE2F1 and AtE2F3, AtE2F2 had only a minor effect on the transactivational activity even when co-expressed with DPa or DPb (Fig. 3). These observations indicate distinct functions in transactivation of the Arabidopsis E2F and DP members.  [[FIGURE]] We then tested whether the weak transactivational activity of AtE2F2 is because of the transcriptional activation domain. In yeast, the expression of AtE2F1 (AF1) and AtE2F3 (AF3), which were fused with the GAL4 DNA-binding domain, resulted in a significant activation of the β-galactosidase reporter gene, whereas that of AtE2F2 (AF2) had no effect (Fig. 4A). This is consistent with the transactivational properties of these proteins in tobacco cells as shown in Figure 3. In the animal E2Fs, the transcriptional activation domains are located in the C-terminal region. The truncated form of AtE2F3 (AF3ΔC), which lacked the C-terminal region corresponding to the animal E2F transactivation domain, had no transactivational activity when cotransfected with DPa in tobacco cells, indicating the presence of the transcriptional activation domain in the C terminus as well as the animal E2Fs (Fig. 4B). The corresponding C-terminal region of AtE2F2 was translationally fused with AF3ΔC and the resulting construct, AF3-F2C, was tested for transactivation. The reporter gene activation of AF3-AF2C mediated by the co-expression of DPa in the tobacco cells was lowered to about one-third of the wild-type AtE2F3, and AF3-F2C had no transactivational activity in yeast. These observations indicate that the low efficiency for the reporter gene activation of AtE2F2 is partly attributable to a weak activity of the transcriptional activation domain. Although the transactivation domain of AtE2F2 appeared to be considerably weaker than that of AtE2F3, AF3-F2C retained a moderate level of transactivational activity in plant cells, suggesting that the strength of the transactivation domain of AtE2F2 alone does not reflect the activity for transactivation. We suspected that the transactivation effect observed for AtE2F1, AtE2F3, and AF3-AF2C includes an effect because of sequestration of Rb species that interact with endogenous E2F proteins to repress the E2F reporter gene, rather than a direct transactivation effect through the activation domain of AtE2F3. To test this possibility, we used an expression construct for the C-terminal region of AtE2F3 containing a potential Rb-binding domain, fused with SV40 NLS, the NLS from simian virus 40 large T antigen (AF3C, Fig. 4B). When AF3C was expressed with the reporter gene, however, less activation of the reporter gene was observed (Fig. 4B), indicating that the activation is a direct effect of transactivation by overexpressed E2F and DP proteins.  [[FIGURE]] Although both DPa and DPb efficiently stimulated the DNA binding activity of AtE2Fs, only DPa mediated a high level of transactivation. Thus, it was expected that there is another mechanism controlling the transactivation of the E2F/DP complex besides the regulation of DNA binding activity. The subcellular distribution of AtE2Fs and DPs was examined using proteins fused with the green fluorescent protein (GFP). We first confirmed that GFP-AtE2F1 (GF-AF1), GFP-AtE2F3 (GF-AF3) and GFP-DPa (GF-DPa) had a transactivation potential similar to their native proteins when they were co-expressed with the corresponding partner proteins in the cultured tobacco cells (Fig.5A). It seemed that the addition of the GFP tag rather increased the transactivation efficiency, probably because of an efficient translation initiation or increased protein stability of the GFP fusions. Observation of GFP fluorescence using an epifluorescence microscope revealed that the GFP-AtE2Fs (GF-AF1, -AF2, and -AF3) and GFP-DPs (GF-DPa and GF-DPb) proteins were localized to the cytoplasm or both the cytoplasm and nucleus (Fig. 5B). In about 30% and 50% of the cells expressing GF-AF2 and GF-AF3, respectively, the fluorescent signals were observed mainly in the cytoplasm (TableI). When we used a GFP fusion protein fused at the C terminus of AtE2F3 to generate AtE2F3-GFP, a similar pattern of the subcellular distribution was observed (data not shown), indicating that the intracellular movement of AtE2F3 is less affected by the fusion of GFP. In contrast, GF-AF1 was observed in both the nucleus and cytoplasm in a majority of the cells, which would reflect the higher transactivational activity on expression of AtE2F1 relative to the other two E2Fs, as shown in Figure 3. We then examined the change in the subcellular localization of the GF-AF1, -AF2, and -AF3 proteins by cotransfection with the 35S-DPa or -DPb plasmid. The co-expression of the DPa protein effectively induced exclusive nuclear localization of GF-AF1 and GF-AF3 but not GF-AF2, whereas the DPb protein did not significantly affect the localization (Fig. 5; TableI). These results were confirmed by a reciprocal exchange through the addition of the GFP tag to DPa and DPb (Table I, the last four lanes). The nuclear translocation of AtE2F1 and AtE2F3 mediated by DPa was highly correlated with the strong transactivational activities of these combinations (Table I; Fig. 3). This concomitant nuclear localization process seems to be mediated by a novel mechanism because neither AtE2Fs nor DPs were nuclear. Moreover, we wondered whether this process involves a recruitment of other cellular factors such as NLS-containing factors or protein kinases that have been stimulated in actively dividing cells. However, when we used cultured tobacco cells incubated with a hormone-free medium as semiquiescent cells, the nuclear localization of GF-AF1 and GF–AF3 mediated by DPa occurred at an efficiency similar to that in the actively dividing tobacco cells (data not shown). We then examined whether the nuclear translocation of AtE2F/DPa involves their direct interaction, using a GFP fusion with a dimerization domain mutant of AtE2F3 (GF-AF3ΔD), in which 45 amino acid residues of the dimerization domain were deleted. It was unexpected that GF-F3ΔD was localized to the nucleus by itself, and the efficiency of the nuclear localization was not affected by the co-expression of DPa (Table I). These results suggest that AtE2F3 has an autonomous NLS and that the dimerization domain of AtE2F3 contains a nuclear export signal or a sequence that inhibits the nuclear localization, which may be masked by the binding of DPa to release the inhibition of the nuclear localization.  [[FIGURE]] Subcellular localization of GFP-AtE2F and -DP proteins1-a  Plant E2F proteins isolated to date and the mammalian E2F-1 share a conserved region containing three consecutive basic amino acids in their N-terminal end (Fig. 6A). To evaluate the role of the conserved region in the nuclear localization mediated by the interaction with DPa, we constructed an AtE2F3 mutant (AF3ΔN), in which the N-terminal 37 amino acids (92–128) of AtE2F3 were deleted. No nuclear localization of the GFP fusion protein was observed even when DPa was co-expressed (Fig. 6B). This mutant protein was localized mainly in the cytoplasm in a greater number of cells than the wild-type AtE2F3 (Figs. 5 and 6B). The loss of the nuclear localization activity was only partly complemented by the fusion of SV40 NLS to the N terminus when the construct was co-expressed with DPa but not DPb (N-AF3ΔN, Figs. 5 and 6B). The nuclear localization activities of these mutants were well correlated with the transactivational activity (Fig. 6B, right column). Moreover, we examined the autonomous NLS function of the N-terminal sequence of AtE2F3 (AF3N) by fusing the sequence to the C terminus of GFP. The GF-AF3N construct, however, did not exhibit an exclusive nuclear localization of the GFP protein, similar to the original GFP protein (Fig. 5), indicating that the N-terminal basic region has no NLS activity by itself. AtE2F2 contains an N-terminal basic region with a structure slightly different from those of other plant E2Fs (Fig. 6A), which is a possible cause of the deficiency in the nuclear localization activity of AtE2F2. Thus, we replaced the N-terminal region consisting of 31 amino acids (57 and 87) of AtE2F2 with the AF3N sequence of AtE2F3 to generate AF3N-AF2, and fused it with GFP. This fusion protein did not exhibit an exclusive nuclear localization even when co-expressed with DPa or DPb (Figs. 5 and 6B), suggesting that the N-terminal conserved sequence is important but not sufficient for mediation of the nuclear localization of plant E2Fs.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Suspension-cultured tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) cells were established from calli of tobacco cv Sumsun NN. The calli were initiated from leaf strips grown on Murashige and Skoog salt medium (CITATION) supplemented with 200 mg L−1 of NaH2PO4 and 1.0 mg L−1 of 2,4-dichrolophenoxyacetic acid, followed by culturing with liquid medium containing the same constituents with shaking at 100 rpm at 28°C and maintained by weekly subculturing in fresh medium. The coding regions of the AtE2F1, AtE2F2, AtE2F3, DPa, and DPb cDNAs from Arabidopsis were cloned by reverse transcriptase-PCR amplification with mRNA isolated from young whole plants (Arabidopsis cv Columbia), based on sequences in the databases. All the N-terminal and C-terminal primers were designed to contain XbaI (orSpeI) and XhoI sites at their 5′ ends, respectively, and the amplified fragments were digested withXbaI or SpeI and XhoI and cloned into the corresponding sites of the pBluescript SK+vector (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). The isolated cDNAs were identical to the cDNA sequences already registered in the databases, but the amino acid sequence of AtE2F2 (accession no. AB050114) differed at position 297 (T) from the amino acid (A) of E2F2 on the database. The E2F-reporter constructs, te2fR4-luc and mte2fR4-luc, were generated by the insertion of dimerized fragments of double-stranded oligonucleotides (5′-TCGACAAGGCG-GGAAAAAAGGCGGGAAAAC-3′ and 5′-TCGAGTTTTC-CCGCCTTTTTTCCCGCCTTG-3′ for te2fR4-luc; 5′-TCGA-CAAGGTTGGAAAAAAGGTTGGAAAAC-3′ and 5′-TCG-AGTTTTCCAACCTTTTTTCCAACCTTG-3′ for mte2fR4-luc) into theXhoI site of the 35S-54-luc vector, which contains the firefly (Photinus pyralis) luciferase gene located downstream of the CaMV 35S minimal promoter region (CITATION). The effector plasmids for the cDNA expression, p35S-AF1, -AF2, -AF3, -DPa, and -DPb, were generated by the insertion of the cDNAs of AtE2F1, AtE2F2, AtE2F3, Dpa, and DPb, respectively, into theSpeI and XhoI sites of the CaMV 35S promoter-based expression vector pCEP5 (CITATION). The C-terminal deletion derivative of AtE2F3, p35S-AF3ΔC, which contains a deletion of 119 amino acids of the C terminus, was constructed by the deletion of an SphI-XhoI fragment from p35SAF3. For p35S-AF3-F2C, a blunt-ended AlwNI-XhoI fragment of AtE2F2, corresponding to 88 amino acids of its C terminus, was replaced with the SphI-XhoI fragment of AtE2F3. The SphI-XhoI fragment was translationally fused at the 5′ end with the NLS from the simian virus 40 large T antigen (SV40 NLS), which was generated by annealing oligonucleotides (5′-CTAGTTCCATGGCTCCAAAGAAGAAGAGAAAGGand 5′-GATCCCTTTCTCTTCTTCTTTGGAGCCATGGAA), and cloned into the SpeI and XhoI sites of the pCEP5 vector to generate p35S-AF3C. The N-terminal deletion derivative of AtE2F3, p35S-AF3ΔN, was generated by the deletion of aBglII-EcoNI fragment, which corresponded to 37 amino acids in its N-terminal region, from p35S-AF3. For p35S-N-AF3Δ 78, the SV40 NLS sequence was fused with aBamHI-XhoI fragment from p35S-AF3ΔN, and cloned into pCEP5. Plasmids for the expression of GFP fusion proteins were constructed with a pCEP-GFP vector, a slightly modified version of the 35S-sGFP vector (provided by Yasuo Niwa, University of Shizuoka, Japan), which contained the sGFP (S65T) gene (CITATION) withEcoRI, BamHI, SpeI,XhoI, and SacI sites for fusion at the C terminus under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. Fragments from the pCEP5 derivatives described above were cloned into theSpeI and XhoI sites to generate p35S-GF-AF1, -AF2, -AF3, DPa, DPb, AF3ΔN, and N-AF3ΔN. For p35S-GF-AF3N, a BglII-XhoI fragment from double-stranded oligonucleotides (5′-AGAGGAATTCAAGATCTCCTTCACGA-AAGAGAAAGGCGACAATGGA and 5′-AGAGCTCGA-GGGAATTCCAGATGGAGCAACAACCATATCCATTG-TC) was inserted into the BamHI and XhoI sites of the pCEP-GFP vector. An EcoRI fragment of the above double-stranded oligonucleotides was replaced with anEcoRI fragment from the N-terminal region of AtE2F2 in p35S-GF-AF2 to generate p35S-GF-AF3N-AF2. A GFP fusion with a dimerization domain mutant of AtE2F3, p35S-GF-F3ΔD, was generated by deleting a 135-bp PvuII-EcoRV fragment from the AtE2F3 cDNA and cloning to the pCEP-GFP vector. For yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) vectors, fragments from the above GFP fusion constructs and p35S-AF3-F2C were cloned into the EcoRI or NcoI and SalI sites of the pGBKT7 vector (CLONTECH, Palo Alto, CA) to generate pGB-AF1, -AF2, -AF3, -AF3-F2C, -DPa, and DPb. TheXbaI-XhoI fragments of the AtE2F cDNAs were cloned into the NheI and XhoI sites of the pAD-GAL4–2.1 vector (Stratagene) to generate pAD-AF1, -AF2, and -AF3. Proteins were synthesized by coupled transcription-translation with a TNT wheat germ extract kit (Promega, Madison, WI) and T7 RNA polymerase using the pGB-AF and -DP plasmids. Reactions were performed with a total of 1 μg of plasmid DNA in 25 μL of solution. The conditions for the DNA-binding reaction and electrophoresis were as described (CITATION), except that 100 ng of salmon sperm DNA per 10 μL of reaction solution was used in place of poly(dI-dC) as a nonspecific DNA competitor. DNA probes were generated by annealing the oligonucleotides used in the construction of the reporter genes and filling cohesive SalI orXhoI sites at the 5′ ends with α-32P-dCTP using the Klenow enzyme. Yeast manipulation and transformation were performed as described (CITATION). A combination of prey and bait plasmids were introduced into the yeast strain SFY526 (CLONTECH) and β-galactosidase activity was measured usingo-nitrophenyl β-d-galactopyranoside as described (CITATION). Transfection of plasmid DNA into the cultured tobacco cells was performed by microprojectile bombardment. The suspension-cultured tobacco cells at an early stationary phase were collected, and 10 mL of the packed volume was resuspended with 40 mL of 0.5 mmannitol and incubated for 1 h at room temperature. Approximately 1 mL of the cell suspension was blotted on filter paper (2.5 × 2.5 cm), placed on layers of paper towels, and allowed to stand for 10 to 30 min. DNA-coated gold particles were prepared as described (CITATION). Approximately 2.0 mg of gold microparticles (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA) was coprecipitated with a total of 8 μg of the effector plasmids, 4 μg of the reporter plasmids, and 2 μg of a reference plasmid of p35S-GUS, the GUS gene under the control of the 35S promoter. One-fourth (4 μL) of the particles were transferred to the screen of a syringe filter unit of the GIE-III particle delivery system (Tanaka Co., Ltd., Sapporo, Japan), a type of particle in-flow gun. The filter paper coated with the cells was placed on a culture plate solidified with 0.3% (w/v) gelrite (Wako Pure Chemicals Industries, Osaka) immediately before bombardment, and the plate was placed on a shelf in the chamber at a distance of 10 cm from the screen in the syringe filter unit. A vacuum of 70 in Hg was applied and the particles were discharged when He gas (at 5.5 kgf/cm2) was released during 25 μsec. Bombarded samples were cultured at 28°C for 16 to 17 h in the dark. The samples were harvested, extracted with a buffer composed of 0.1 m NaH2PO4(pH7.8), 5% (w/v) glycerol, 1 mm EDTA, and 0.1% (w/v) Triton X-100, and assayed for luciferase and GUS activity using luciferin and 4-methylumbelliferyl β-d-glucuronide as substrates, respectively. All luciferase values were normalized using GUS activities. All experiments were carried out in triplicate and independently performed at least two times. Transfection of the GFP constructs into the suspension-cultured tobacco cells was conducted by microprojectile bombardment with 0.5 mg of gold particles coated with a total of 1 μg of plasmid, as described above. GFP expression in the cells was observed 17 to 20 h after the transfection using an epifluorescence microscope, model AX70 (Olympus, Tokyo), with an MWIA/GFP filter cube (excitation filter, 460–490 nm; barrier filter, 510–550 nm).
