!~ABS~! Arabidopsis contains 34 genes that are predicted to encode calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs). CDPK enzymatic activity previously has been detected in many locations in plant cells, including the cytosol, the cytoskeleton, and the membrane fraction. However, little is known about the subcellular locations of individual CDPKs or the mechanisms involved in targeting them to those locations. We investigated the subcellular location of one Arabidopsis CDPK, AtCPK2, in detail. Membrane-associated AtCPK2 did not partition with the plasma membrane in a two-phase system. Sucrose gradient fractionation of microsomes demonstrated that AtCPK2 was associated with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). AtCPK2 does not contain transmembrane domains or known ER-targeting signals, but does have predicted amino-terminal acylation sites. AtCPK2 was myristoylated in a cell-free extract and myristoylation was prevented by converting the glycine at the proposed site of myristate attachment to alanine (G2A). In plants, the G2A mutation decreased AtCPK2 membrane association by approximately 50%. A recombinant protein, consisting of the first 10 amino acids of AtCPK2 fused to the amino-terminus of β-glucuronidase, was also targeted to the ER, indicating that the amino terminus of AtCPK2 can specify ER localization of a soluble protein. These results indicate that AtCPK2 is localized to the ER, that myristoylation is likely to be involved in the membrane association of AtCPK2, and that the amino terminal region of AtCPK2 is sufficient for correct membrane targeting.
!~RES~! A clone containing the AtCPK2 genomic region was isolated from a genomic library by low-stringency hybridization and a 5.8-kb region of this clone was sequenced (see GenBank accession no.AF286222 for the complete sequence). The predicted open reading frame contained all of the characteristic features of a CDPK (CITATION), including a calmodulin-like domain with four predicted calcium-binding EF hands. AtCPK2 also contains the largest amino-terminal variable domain (187 amino acids) of any CDPK characterized to date (CITATION). The genomic sequence, rather than the cDNA, was chosen for these experiments because we have evidence that regions downstream of the promoter are important for full expression of AtCPK2 (E. Hrabak, unpublished data). For some experiments where it was important to accurately quantitate levels of AtCPK2 protein or distinguish between the endogenous AtCPK2 and a modified transgenic protein, constructs were made in which theAtCPK2 gene was tagged with the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene. pCPK2-GUS contains an AtCPK2 genomic DNA fragment of 4.9 kb into which the GUS coding sequence was inserted in-frame at an introduced BamHI site (Fig.1A). This plasmid contains 1.6 kb of DNA upstream of the translation start codon and 0.6 kb downstream of the translation stop codon. Although the precise transcription start site for the AtCPK2 gene is not known, this construct is predicted to contain the entire AtCPK2 promoter and 5′-untranslated region because there is less than 1.1 kb of intergenic DNA between the AtCPK2 translational start codon and the stop codon of the preceding gene, based on the completed Arabidopsis genome sequence. pCPK2-GUS should also contain sufficient DNA downstream of the stop codon to encompass the typical plant polyadenylation signals (CITATION) because the 3′ region of this clone is 385 bp larger than the 3′ region of the largest cDNA clone identified. In the resulting 138-kD CPK2-GUS fusion protein, the GUS protein is fused to the AtCPK2 protein at a position ten amino acids from the carboxy terminus of AtCPK2.  [[FIGURE]] To eliminate the possibility of detecting multiple CDPK isoforms simultaneously and to accurately quantitate levels of a single isoform, transgenic plants expressing the CPK2-GUS fusion protein were used in initial experiments to assess membrane localization. Two-week-old transgenic plants were homogenized, debris was removed by low-speed centrifugation, and the membranes were pelleted by ultracentrifugation. GUS enzyme activity was assayed in both the soluble and membrane fractions using a sensitive fluorimetric assay. Controls for these experiments included wild-type plants and transgenic plants expressing the GUS protein alone. No GUS activity was detected in extracts from wild-type plants. In plants expressing the GUS protein alone, 2% of the GUS activity was found in the membrane fraction (data not shown), which probably represents protein trapped in vesicles during homogenization or nonspecifically bound to membranes. In extracts from CPK2-GUS transgenic plants, 40% of the GUS activity was detected in the membrane fraction (Table I), providing evidence that some of the AtCPK2 protein in these plants is membrane associated.  Membrane association of GUS-tagged AtCPK2 proteins in transgenic plants To investigate the interaction of AtCPK2 with membranes, isolated membranes from plants containing GUS-tagged AtCPK2 constructs were incubated in the presence of buffer alone or buffer containing a chelating agent (EDTA), high ionic strength (NaCl), a nonionic detergent (Triton X-100), or an ionic detergent (SDS). After 30 min, the samples were recentrifuged and the amount of GUS activity in the pellet and supernatant was determined with the GUS fluorimetric assay (Fig. 2). In transgenic plants expressing CPK2-GUS protein, approximately 75% of the membrane-associated GUS activity remained in the pellet after treatment of the membranes with buffer containing EDTA or NaCl, whereas the remainder of the CPK2-GUS protein was now found in the supernatant. These results were not significantly different from membranes treated with buffer alone (Fig.2), indicating that AtCPK2 protein may exist in an equilibrium between soluble and membrane-bound states. Almost all of the GUS activity was released from the membranes of these transgenic plants by detergent treatment. Thus, treatments that disrupt ionic or electrostatic interactions were not effective at dissociating AtCPK2 from membranes, whereas treatments that disrupted most types of hydrophobic interactions efficiently solubilized AtCPK2. Because Triton X-100 was able to release AtCPK2 from membranes, AtCPK2 is unlikely to be associated with detergent-resistant membranes or lipid rafts (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] Because calcium-stimulated protein kinase activity previously has been detected in association with the plasma membrane fraction in plants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we used aqueous two-phase partitioning to analyze membranes from wild-type plants (Fig.3). This technique enriches for plasma membranes in the upper phase and other cellular membranes in the lower phase. Both phases were analyzed by immunoblotting to locate AtCPK2 protein, as well as markers for the ER, mitochondrial, vacuolar, and plasma membranes. Golgi membranes were assayed enzymatically for latent UDPase, whereas chloroplast membranes were detected by measuring chlorophyll concentration. The plasma membrane marker, as expected, was enriched in the upper phase, whereas ER and mitochondrial markers, as well as AtCPK2 protein, were located in the lower phase (Fig. 3). All other membrane markers were also found predominantly in the lower phase (data not shown). These results indicate that AtCPK2 is not associated with the plasma membrane.  [[FIGURE]] To localize AtCPK2 to a specific cellular membrane, Suc gradients were used to separate microsomes based on their buoyant density. Microsomes and Suc gradients were prepared in buffers containing EDTA alone (−Mg2+) or EDTA plus excess MgCl2 (+Mg2+). In the presence of Mg2+, ribosomes remain associated with the ER membranes that migrate at 40% to 46% (w/w) Suc. Chelation of Mg2+ by EDTA dissociates the ribosomes, shifting the ER membranes to a lower Suc concentration (CITATION). Gradient fractions were analyzed as described for the phase partitioning experiments. In the presence of Mg2+, AtCPK2 was detected in fractions containing 41% to 46% (w/w) Suc, similar to the ER, chloroplast, and mitochondrial markers. This sedimentation pattern could be easily distinguished from vacuolar, Golgi, and plasma membranes (Fig. 4), but did not permit the unambiguous localization of AtCPK2. In the absence of Mg2+, the ER markers BiP (a major ER-resident binding protein) and ACA2, as well as AtCPK2, shifted to 33% to 37% (w/w) Suc, consistent with a change in buoyant density of the ER after dissociation of ribosomes (Fig. 4). Although we consistently observed that the absence of Mg2+ broadened the sedimentation profiles for some of the membrane marker proteins, there was not a shift of the peak fractions to the extent observed for AtCPK2 or the ER membrane markers. Data from the Suc gradients are consistent with localization of membrane-associated AtCPK2 to the ER membrane.  [[FIGURE]] All of the membrane marker proteins detected in this study are integral membrane proteins with the exception of BiP, which is associated with the lumenal face of the ER but does not contain any membrane-spanning domains. In our experiments, some BiP protein is usually detected near the top of the gradients (22%–24% [w/w] Suc). This most likely represents BiP that dissociated during resuspension of the pelleted membranes before loading onto the gradients. It is probably not a result of proteolysis because BiP shows no apparent change inM r in different gradient fractions. Some AtCPK2 is usually detected in these low-density gradient fractions also, consistent with our previous results that some AtCPK2 protein is solubilized during resuspension in buffer (Fig. 2). The other membrane protein markers, which represent integral membrane proteins, are not found in these low-density gradient fractions. To determine whether a GUS tag would affect the localization of AtCPK2, Suc gradients were performed on membranes from transgenic plants expressing CPK2-GUS protein (Fig.5). As expected, the ER marker protein ACA2 was detected at 41% to 46% (w/w) Suc in the presence of Mg2+ and shifted to lower buoyant density when the Mg2+ was chelated by EDTA. The location of the plasma membrane marker protein was similar in the presence and absence of Mg2+, as were all other membrane markers tested (data not shown). Sedimentation of the membranes containing the wild-type AtCPK2 protein, detected by immunoblotting, was most similar to that of the ER membrane markers. Distribution of GUS enzyme activity, representing the CPK2-GUS fusion protein, closely resembled the distribution of ACA2 and wild-type AtCPK2. These results indicate that the 600-amino acid GUS tag did not interfere with localization of the AtCPK2 protein to the ER membrane (Fig. 5). Because the CPK2-GUS fusion protein is localized in a manner comparable with the wild-type AtCPK2 protein, we conclude that transgenic plants expressing CPK2-GUS can be used interchangeably with wild-type plants to monitor the location of AtCPK2.  [[FIGURE]] The AtCPK2 protein has no predicted transmembrane domains that would account for its observed membrane localization, but it does contain a predicted amino-terminal myristoylation sequence (MGNACVGPN). To determine if the AtCPK2 protein could be a substrate for plant NMT, plasmid pCPK2-ORF, which contains the AtCPK2 coding sequence downstream of the viral T7 promoter, was used in an in vitro myristoylation experiment. A coupled transcription-translation system from wheat germ was used to transcribe and translate theAtCPK2 cDNA sequence after addition of T7 RNA polymerase. Wheat germ extract has been shown to contain NMT activity (CITATION; CITATION). The reactions were performed in the presence of either [35S]Met for detection of total protein synthesis or [3H]myristate to detect myristoylated proteins. A prominent protein of approximately 80 kD was synthesized in the [35S]Met-containing reaction (Fig.6A, lane 2). The identity of this protein was confirmed by immunoblot analysis with AtCPK2-specific antibody (Fig. 6C, lane 2). A protein of similar size was labeled in the [3H]myristate-containing reaction (Fig. 6B, lane 2). These results indicate that the AtCPK2 protein can be myristoylated in vitro.  [[FIGURE]] No proteins recognized by AtCPK2 antibodies were detected by immunoblotting of mock reactions that contained no plasmid template (Fig. 6C, lane 1). Likewise, no radiolabeled proteins were synthesized when the plasmid template was omitted from the reaction mix (Fig. 6, A and B, lane 1). The smaller proteins routinely observed in [35S]Met-labeled reactions (Fig. 6A, lane 2) might be AtCPK2 degradation products or translation products from alternative start sites within the CPK2 mRNA. Because they are not myristoylated and are not detected by immunoblotting, these proteins probably represent amino-terminally truncated products produced from pCPK2-ORF. To confirm that the amino-terminal Gly of AtCPK2 was the site of myristoylation, site-directed mutagenesis was used to convert the second position Gly of pCPK2-ORF to an Ala (G2A) to create the plasmid pCPK2-G2A. A coupled transcription-translation reaction was performed in the presence of either [35S]Met or [3H]myristate using pCPK2-G2A as the template. The G2A mutation did not affect the synthesis of the AtCPK2 protein (Fig. 6A, lane 3 and Fig. 6C, lane 3), but prevented the addition of [3H]myristate (Fig. 6B, lane 3), consistent with the Gly at position 2 of the native AtCPK2 protein being the site of myristoylation. To investigate the effect of a G2A mutation in Arabidopsis, transgenic plants were created using the pCPK2(G2A)-GUS construct (Fig.1B). pCPK2(G2A)- GUS is identical to pCPK2-GUS except for a single nucleotide change that converted the second codon from Gly to Ala. The amount of GUS activity in the membrane fraction from plants expressing CPK2(G2A)-GUS was reduced to 18%, compared with 40% in plants expressing CPK2-GUS (Table I). Suc gradients were used to determine the location of CPK2(G2A)-GUS protein in these plants. The distribution of membrane-bound GUS activity paralleled the distribution of the ER membrane markers (data not shown). Thus, although mutation of the myristoylation site decreased the proportion of AtCPK2 in the membrane fraction, the G2A mutation did not affect ER localization. To determine whether the amino terminus of AtCPK2 contains the ER-targeting information, we tested whether this region was able to direct a soluble protein to the ER membrane. Arabidopsis plants were stably transformed with DNA from plasmid pCPK2-PR containing 1.6 kb ofAtCPK2 genomic DNA upstream of the translational start site followed by the first 30 bp of the AtCPK2 coding sequence in a translational fusion with the GUS gene and nos terminator (Fig. 1C). These plants expressed the GUS protein preceded by the first 10 amino acids of AtCPK2. This 10-amino acid region was chosen because it contains the myristoylation consensus sequence as defined by CITATION. The proportion of GUS activity found in the membrane fraction from plants expressing the CPK2-PR protein was 46%, which is similar to the results from plants expressing CPK2-GUS, the full-length CPK2 protein tagged with GUS (Table I). The specific activity of the GUS enzyme detected in extracts from plants expressing CPK2-PR was consistently lower than in extracts from plants containing the full-length CPK2-GUS constructs (Table I). The lower activity may be because of missing regulatory sequences downstream of the promoter that are required for higher levels of expression or to differences between Arabidopsis ecotypes because CPK2-PR transgenic plants are in the RLD genetic background, whereas the CPK2-GUS plants are in the Columbia ecotype. Regardless of the reason for the lower expression levels in CPK2-PR plants, the results demonstrate that the first 10 amino acids of AtCPK2 were sufficient to allow direct membrane targeting of the normally soluble GUS protein. Suc gradients were used to determine the location of CPK2-PR protein in microsomes from transgenic CPK2-PR-expressing plants. As observed previously for the wild-type AtCPK2 protein (Fig. 4) and for plants expressing CPK2-GUS (Fig. 5), the distribution of membrane-bound GUS activity was most similar to the location of the ER membrane marker (Fig. 7). Thus, a 10-amino acid region from the amino terminus of AtCPK2 was sufficient to direct localization of the GUS protein to the ER in a manner indistinguishable from the intact AtCPK2 protein.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! DNA cloning was done in Escherichia coli strain DH5α (Life Technologies, Rockville, MD). Standard molecular cloning techniques were used throughout, according to CITATION. GUS activity was determined with a fluorimetric assay as previously described (CITATION). Upon request, all novel materials described in this publication will be made available in a timely manner for noncommercial research purposes, subject to the requisite permission from any third party owners of all or parts of the material. Obtaining any permissions will be the responsibility of the requestor. To identify an AtCPK2 cDNA clone, a size-fractionated Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia cDNA library (CITATION) was screened by hybridization with an AtCPK2 genomic DNA fragment as the probe. Three 1.6-kb clones (pE1-5, pE17-3, and pE17-4) were isolated but all of them were missing approximately 400 bp at the beginning of the open reading frame, as predicted from the genomic sequence. A 1.4-kb region of cDNA beginning at the translation initiation codon was amplified by PCR using the cDNA library as template, an upstream primer 5′GGATCCATGGGTAATGCT containing an introducedBamHI site, and the downstream primer 5′GGTTAGTCTTCG. The amplified 5′ region and the truncated cDNA clone pE1-5 overlapped in a region containing a unique BglII restriction site, which was used to ligate both segments of the AtCPK2 coding sequence to create the plasmid pCPK2-ORF containing the entire AtCPK2 coding sequence. The GenBank accession number for the AtCPK2 cDNA sequence isU31833. An AtCPK2 cDNA clone with a G2A mutation was made by PCR with pCPK2-ORF as the template, a forward primer with a single base change (bold font) to convert the Gly at codon 2 to an Ala (5′ AGTGGATCCATGGCTAATGCTTGCGT), and a reverse primer in the pBluescript vector. The PCR product was recloned into pBluescript to give pCPK2-G2A and sequenced to confirm the G2A mutation. An AtCPK2 genomic clone was isolated by hybridization of a cosmid library of Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia genomic DNA in the vector pOCA18 (CITATION) under low stringency conditions with a radiolabeled DNA probe corresponding to a portion of the closely related AtCPK1 gene (CITATION). An 11-kb XbaI fragment containing theAtCPK2 genomic region was subcloned from one of the hybridizing cosmids to pBluescript (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) and designated pgAK19. A 5.6-kb region of pgAK19 was sequenced on both strands using either Sequenase 2.0 (U.S. Biochemicals, Cleveland) for manual sequencing or Dye-deoxy Terminators (Perkin-Elmer Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA) for automated sequencing. To facilitate detection of the AtCPK2 protein in wildtype plant extract, the AtCPK2 genomic sequence (including 1.6 kb upstream of the translational start site) was tagged near the end of the coding sequence with the 1.8-kb GUS (uidA) gene. A 2-kb EcoRI fragment from the 3′ end of pgAK19 was subcloned to pALTER-1 (Promega Corp., Madison, WI). Site-directed mutagenesis was performed according to the manufacturer's instructions using the oligonucleotide 5′ GGGAGGACCTCTGAAGATGGATCCAGAGAACAGCATTAGCATTTCTC in which bold type indicates nucleotide changes from the original sequence. This procedure introduced a BamHI restriction site 30 bp upstream of the AtCPK2 stop codon. The 2-kbEcoRI fragment was sequenced to confirm that no unintended errors had been introduced by the mutagenesis procedure. To eliminate the unsequenced upstream and downstream regions from pgAK19, a multistep process was used to construct a clone that contained most of the 5.6-kb sequenced region. pCPK2-PR (described below) was digested with MluI and XbaI and ligated to a 6-kbMluI-XbaI fragment from pgAK19 to yield pPGS. pPGS contains the 5.6-kb sequenced region as well as 1.3 kb of downstream DNA. The 2-kb EcoRI fragment in pPGS was replaced with the EcoRI fragment containing the introducedBamHI site to yield pPGS-M and the fragment was confirmed to be in the correct orientation by restriction enzyme digestion. pPGS-M was digested with SalI and KpnI and the 4.9-kb fragment containing 1.6 kb of AtCPK2 sequence upstream of the start codon, the entire coding sequence including introns, and 0.6 kb of AtCPK2 sequence downstream from the stop codon was cloned into pUC18 that had been digested with SalI andKpnI. A GUS cassette (CITATION) withBamHI ends was ligated into the introduced BamHI site, which fused the GUS sequence in frame with the AtCPK2reading frame, to yield pGMG-GUS. Orientation and correct fusion of the cassettes were confirmed by sequencing through the fusion junctions. Finally, the tagged AtCPK2 genomic construct was subcloned into the vector pBIN19 as a SalI-SacI fragment to yield pCPK2-GUS. To create an AtCPK2 genomic clone with Ala (GCT) instead of Gly (GGT) as the second codon (G2A mutation), site-directed mutagenesis was performed with the QuikChange kit (Stratagene) according to manufacturer's instructions using pGMG-GUS as the template DNA. The mutated AtCPK2 gene was subcloned into the vector pBIN19 as described above and named pCPK2(G2A)-GUS. To fuse the promoter and first 10 codons of AtCPK2 to the GUS reporter gene, PCR was used to amplify a 1.6-kb region upstream of theAtCPK2 genomic sequence. A SalI site was added at the 5′ end of the upstream primer 5′ ACTGTCGACTTATATGTCTTCATATCTCT and a SmaI site was added to the downstream primer at a position immediately after the 10th full codon of the coding sequence 5′ CCACCCGGGAAATGTGGTGTCCAACGCA. Products from the PCR reaction were cloned into pBluescript to yield pPRM and sequenced to confirm that no PCR errors had occurred. The SalI-SmaI fragment was then cloned upstream of the GUS reporter gene in pBI101.2 (CLONTECH, Palo Alto, CA) to produce pCPK2-PR. The correct reading frame across the translational fusion junction was confirmed by DNA sequencing. Arabidopsis ecotype RLD roots were transformed as described previously (CITATION), followed by plant regeneration. Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia plants were transformed using a vacuum infiltration procedure (CITATION). Transformed plants were confirmed to contain the correct transgene using a rapid PCR method (CITATION). Plants for membrane isolation were grown from surface-sterilized seeds in liquid Murashige and Skoog basal medium (Sigma, St. Louis), pH 5.7, containing Gamborg's B-5 vitamins and 1% (w/v) Suc at 100 rpm, 22°C, and an 18-h-light/dark cycle. AtCPK2 rabbit polyclonal antibody was made against a purified fusion protein consisting of the first 90 amino acids of the 185 amino acid AtCPK2 variable domain fused to glutathioneS-transferase in vector pGEX-KT (CITATION). Recombinant protein expressed in E. coli was purified on a glutathione-agarose matrix (Pharmacia, Piscataway, NJ) and used for immunization of New Zealand white female rabbits. The antibody did not cross-react with AtCPK1 protein, the CDPK isoform most closely related to AtCPK2, or with AtCPK4 or AtCPK5 protein. Cellular membranes were prepared as previously described with minor modifications (CITATION). All procedures were conducted at 4°C. Two-week-old, liquid-grown Arabidopsis plants were homogenized in a mortar and pestle in 1 to 2 mL of homogenization buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.2; 20% [v/v] glycerol; 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride; 1 mmdithiothreitol; 10 μg mL−1 leupeptin; 1 μg mL−1 pepstatin; and 10 μg mL−1 aprotinin) per gram of tissue. Homogenates were filtered through Miracloth and centrifuged at 5,000g for 5 min. The supernatant was centrifuged at 125,000g for 30 min to pellet microsomes. The remaining supernatant contains primarily soluble proteins. To investigate the membrane binding affinity of AtCPK2, microsomal membranes were resuspended at 0.5 mg mL−1 in resuspension buffer (25 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5; 10% [w/v] Suc; and protease inhibitors as described above) alone or in resuspension buffer containing one of the following: 10 mmEDTA, 1 m NaCl, 1% (v/v) Triton X-100, or 0.1% (w/v) SDS. After incubation at 4°C for 30 min, samples were re-centrifuged at 125,000g at 4°C for 30 min to pellet membrane vesicles. The supernatants were saved and the pellets were resuspended in resuspension buffer. Results were analyzed via one-way ANOVA in Systat 9.0. Treatment means were compared with the control via Dunnett's test. An aqueous two-phase system (CITATION) was used to separate plasma membrane from intracellular membranes. Total membranes, prepared as described above, were resuspended in 200 μL of SPK buffer (0.33 m Suc, 5 mm KPO4, and 3 mm KCl, pH 7.8) and added to a 4-g phase system prepared in the same buffer. The final composition of the phase system was 6.3% (w/w) dextran (M r = 413,000) and 6.3% (w/w) polyethylene glycol (M r= 3,350). After thorough mixing by inverting the tube 20 to 30 times, the phases were separated by centrifugation at 1,400gfor 5 min. The upper phase (enriched for plasma membrane) was removed to a clean tube and repartitioned twice with lower phase. Likewise, the lower phase, containing primarily intracellular membranes, was repartitioned twice with upper phase. Fresh upper and lower phase were obtained from a bulk-phase system of identical composition prepared separately. The final upper and lower phases were diluted with buffer containing 10 mm Tris-HCl (pH 7.0), 1 mm EGTA, and 1 mm EDTA and centrifuged at 125,000gfor 30 min. Pellets were resuspended in equal volumes of SPK buffer. After separation by SDS-PAGE, proteins were transferred to polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) membranes and analyzed by immunoblotting as described below. Membrane pellets were resuspended in 1 mL of resuspension buffer per 10 g wet weight of starting material using a ground glass homogenizer. Resuspended membranes were layered onto linear Suc gradients (20% to 50% [w/w]) prepared in centrifugation buffer (10 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, and protease inhibitors). For density gradients performed in the presence of Mg2+, 2 mm EDTA and 5 mm MgCl2 were added to homogenization, resuspension, and centrifugation buffers. For density gradients performed in the absence of Mg2+, 5 mm EDTA was added to homogenization and resuspension buffers, whereas 2 mm EDTA was used in centrifugation buffer. After centrifugation in a swinging bucket rotor at 125,000g for 16 h at 4°C, 1-mL fractions were collected. The Suc concentration of each fraction was measured with a refractometer (Fisher Scientific, Pittsburgh). Protein concentrations were determined according to the method of Lowry as described previously (CITATION). Chlorophyll, a marker for chloroplast thylakoid membranes, was measured spectrophotometrically (CITATION). Latent UDPase, a marker for Golgi membranes, was assayed as described by CITATION using the Malachite Green method to detect released phosphate. All other membrane markers were detected by immunoblot analysis. After separation of proteins on 10% (w/v) SDS-polyacrylamide gels (CITATION), proteins were electrophoretically transferred to PVDF membrane (Millipore, Bedford, MA) and the membranes were blocked overnight at 4°C in TBS (20 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, and 137 mm NaCl) containing 2% (w/v) nonfat dry milk. The PVDF membranes were then treated sequentially with primary antibodies in TBST (TBS containing 0.05% [v/v] Tween 20) containing 2% (w/v) nonfat dry milk for 1 h, TBST for 5 min (3 times), secondary antibodies in TBST containing 2% (w/v) nonfat dry milk for 45 min, TBST for 5 min (three times), and TBS for 5 min. Immunodecorated proteins were detected with SuperSignal chemiluminescent substrate (Pierce, Rockford, IL) on x-ray film. Quantitation of immunodetected proteins was done using the NIH Image program. Membranes were stripped between detections following manufacturer's instructions. Antisera were used at the following dilutions: plasma membrane H+-ATPase (CITATION), 1:10,000 (v/v); ER lumenal binding protein BiP (gift of Maarten Chrispeels, University of California, San Diego), 1:1,000 (v/v); ER integral membrane protein ACA2 (Arabidopsis calciumATPase; CITATION), 1:2,000 (v/v); mitochondrial membrane protein β-ATPase D (CITATION), 1:100 (v/v); vacuolar membrane protein VM23 (CITATION), 1:3,000 (v/v); and AtCPK2 variable domain antibody (described above), 1:10,000 (v/v). A cell-free wheat germ extract system was used to transcribe and translate the AtCPK2 gene in the presence of either radiolabeled methionine to assess total protein synthesis or radiolabeled myristate to detect myristoylated proteins. One microgram of plasmid, linearized with EcoRI, was used as the template for transcription by T7 RNA polymerase in the TNT Coupled Transcription-Translation Wheat Germ Extract System (Promega Corp.). Control reactions contained no plasmid. Reactions were prepared according to the manufacturer's instructions in the presence of either 50 μCi of [9,10-3H]myristic acid (54 Ci mmol−1; Amersham, Piscataway, NJ) or 10 μCi ofl-[35S]Met (1,000 Ci mmol−1; Amersham). Immediately before beginning the 1.5-h reaction, the [3H]myristic acid was dried under nitrogen and resuspended by vortexing in DEPC-treated water at a concentration of 10 μCi μL−1. Reaction products were separated on 10% (w/v) SDS-polyacrylamide gels (CITATION), stained with Coomassie Blue, and then treated with Entensify autoradiography enhancer (New England Nuclear, Boston) before detection on x-ray film.
