!~ABS~! The ethylene receptor ETR1 ofArabidopsis contains transmembrane domains responsible for ethylene binding and membrane localization. Sequence analysis does not provide information as to which membrane system of the plant cell ETR1 is localized. Examination by aqueous two-phase partitioning, sucrose density-gradient centrifugation, and immunoelectron microscopy indicates that ETR1 is predominantly localized to the endoplasmic reticulum. Localization of ETR1 showed no change following a cycloheximide chase. Ethylene binding by ETR1 did not affect localization to the endoplasmic reticulum, based upon analysis of plants treated with the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane- 1-carboxylic acid and by examination of a mutant receptor that does not bind ethylene. Determinants within the amino-terminal half of ETR1 are sufficient for targeting to and retention at the endoplasmic reticulum. These data support a central role of the plant endoplasmic reticulum in hormone perception and signal transduction. 
!~RES~! The ethylene receptor ETR1 has a modular structure (Fig.1 A) and contains three predicted transmembrane segments implicated in both membrane localization and ethylene binding (CITATION, CITATION). We analyzed the localization of ETR1 in Arabidopsis membranes by two independent biochemical strategies: aqueous two-phase partitioning and sucrose density-gradient fractionation. Aqueous two-phase partitioning in polyethylene glycol-Dextran mixtures allows for purification of PM vesicles based on their preferential partitioning into the upper phase (CITATION). Partitioning is dependent upon surface properties of the membranes and under optimal conditions can result in about 90% of the plasma membrane partitioning to the upper phase and 80–90% of the intracellular membranes partitioning to the lower phase (CITATION, CITATION). Following partitioning of Arabidopsis membranes, the relative distribution between the two phases of ETR1 and various membrane markers was determined by immunoblot analysis (Fig.1 B). The PM marker (H+-ATPase) enriched to the upper phase, and markers for ER (BiP) and tonoplast (VM23) enriched to the lower phase. Membrane vesicles containing ETR1 enriched in the lower phase, indicating that ETR1 is not localized to the PM. A good correlation between the distribution of ETR1 and the ER marker BiP was observed in several independent experiments, consistent with ER-localization.  [[FIGURE]] To resolve the membrane location of ETR1, sucrose density-gradient centrifugation was performed withArabidopsis microsomes. Centrifugation was performed in the presence and absence of Mg2+. Association of ribosomes with the ER is Mg2+-dependent, so removal of Mg2+ results in dissociation of ribosomes from the ER and a diagnostic redistribution of ER from higher to lower density on the gradient (CITATION). Fractions from the sucrose gradient were analyzed by immunoblot for the presence of ETR1 as well as for markers specific for PM, tonoplast, and ER (Fig. 1 C). ETR1 co-fractionated with the ER marker BiP and exhibited the same diagnostic Mg2+-dependent density shift from 29–36% to 38–44% (w/w) sucrose observed with the ER marker. A small amount of BiP, an ER resident chaperone, is also present at the top of the gradient and arises due to release of some soluble contents of the ER lumen. The distribution of ETR1 could be differentiated from the plasma membrane marker (H+-ATPase), the tonoplast marker (VM23), and the chloroplast thylakoid marker (chlorophyll absorbance), which did not demonstrate the same Mg2+-induced shift. ETR1 could be differentiated from the Golgi marker (latent UDPase), which had a broader distribution than ETR1 in the Mg2+-containing gradient.  To cytologically corroborate ER localization for ETR1, we performed immunogold electron microscopy. For this purpose a polyclonal antibody against ETR1 was affinity-purified to monospecificity (Fig.2). Due to low native levels of ETR1 inArabidopsis, we used a transgenic line transformed with an additional genomic copy of the ETR1 gene (tETR1) for cytological studies (CITATION). Transgenic expression of ETR1resulted in a 4-fold increase in the level of immunodetectable ETR1 (Fig. 2). The increased expression of ETR1 does not affect receptor localization based on analysis by sucrose density gradient centrifugation (results not shown). In photomicrographs of mesophyll cells from Arabidopsis leaves, gold granules were found on the ER (Fig. 3, A–D). The ER was identified on the basis of associated ribosomes and by immunogold localization of ACA2 (Fig. 3, E–F), a transmembrane Ca2+ pump previously demonstrated to be ER-localized (CITATION). Gold granules representing ETR1 were not detected in context of the PM except where the ER contacted the PM, nor were gold granules detected above background levels on other membrane systems such as mitochondria, chloroplasts, vacuoles, and the Golgi apparatus. Localization of ETR1 to the ER was confirmed by control experiments performed by omitting the anti-ETR1 antibody, by replacing it with preimmune antibody, and by probing the etr1–7 line (CITATION) that lacks immunodetectable ETR1.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Efforts to visualize ETR1 by use of fusions to green fluorescent protein (GFP) were unsuccessful. Transient expression inArabidopsis protoplasts of an ETR1-GFP fusion, driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (35S::ETR1-GFP), could not be interpreted due to formation of large intracellular aggregates of fluorescence (results not shown). Stable expression of 35S::ETR1-GFP in Arabidopsis resulted in expression at close to native ETR1 levels, and the fluorescence was insufficient for visualization.  To determine whether the ER localization reflects stable retention of ETR1 at the ER membrane, we treated Arabidopsis plants with the protein biosynthesis inhibitor cycloheximide. Use of cycloheximide has been demonstrated to be an effective means to clear transmembrane and secretory proteins in transit through the secretory pathway (CITATION, CITATION). Preliminary experiments indicated that ETR1 was a long-lived protein, allowing use of this experimental approach. Immunoblot analysis of sucrose density-gradient fractions revealed that ETR1 was still ER-associated after a 6-h cycloheximide treatment based on the Mg2+-dependent density shift (Fig.4), indicating that ETR1 was retained at the ER and did not migrate to the PM.  [[FIGURE]] Localization of receptors may be affected by ligand binding (CITATION). The endogenous levels of ethylene in plant tissue are not saturating because one does not observe the gross morphological changes associated with increased levels of ethylene (CITATION). Therefore, to examine localization of ethylene receptors in an ethylene-bound state, plants were treated with the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) for 24 h prior to membrane isolation. Treatment with 50 μm ACC is above the level needed to induce ethylene-mediated responses inArabidopsis (CITATION) and, based upon the dose dependence for ethylene binding by the ethylene receptor ETR1 (CITATION), should produce sufficient ethylene to yield greater than 90% occupancy of receptor-binding sites. Immunoblot analysis of sucrose density-gradient fractions indicated that ETR1 isolated from ACC-treated plants was ER-associated based on the Mg2+-dependent density shift (Fig.5 A).  [[FIGURE]] We also considered the formal possibility that a receptor lacking bound ligand might localize to a membrane system other than the ER. Inhibitors of ethylene biosynthesis exist, but these reduce rather than eliminate ethylene production in Arabidopsis (CITATION). We therefore took a mutant-based approach to examine localization of an ethylene receptor incapable of binding ethylene. For this purpose, the ethylene-insensitive mutant etr1–1 was used. Theetr1–1 mutation results in the change of a single amino acid (C65Y) within the second transmembrane domain of the receptor, disrupting binding of a copper co-factor necessary for liganding ethylene (CITATION, CITATION). Immunoblot analysis of sucrose density-gradient fractions indicated that the etr1–1 mutant receptor was predominantly ER-associated based on the Mg2+-dependent density shift (Fig.5 B). A small amount of etr1–1 did not demonstrate a Mg2+-dependent density shift and may represent etr1-1 protein that has escaped the ER and now resides at the PM or at another membrane. Overall, our results indicate that the ligand-bound status of ETR1 has little effect upon the localization of ETR1 within the secretory system.  Several amino acid motifs have been implicated in the ER retention and retrieval of plant proteins. These include the cytosolic di-lysine motif, KKXX-COOH found in type-1 membrane proteins and the (H/K)DEL-COOH motif found in soluble proteins (CITATION). ETR1 and other members of the ethylene receptor family inArabidopsis lack these known ER localization motifs. To gain information on the localization requirements for ETR1, we examined the subcellular localization of ETR1-(1–349), a truncated version of the receptor that contains the amino-terminal 349 amino acids (full-length ETR1 = 738 amino acids) (CITATION).ETR1-(1–349) was transgenically expressed in theetr1–7 genetic background of Arabidopsis that contains a loss-of-function mutation in the endogenous ETR1gene. Analysis by sucrose density-gradient centrifugation supported ER localization of ETR1-(1–349) based on the Mg2+-dependent density shift (Fig.6), indicating that determinants for ER targeting and retention are contained within the amino-terminal half of ETR1.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Microsomal membranes were isolated from Arabidopsis plants grown in liquid culture as described (CITATION) using homogenization buffer containing 50 mm Tris (pH 8.2), 20% glycerol, 1 mm dithiothreitol, 2 mm EDTA, and protease inhibitors. Aqueous two-phase partitioning was performed using a 6.4% (w/w) Dextran T500/PEG3350 mixture (CITATION). For sucrose density gradient centrifugation, isolated membranes were resuspended in 25 mm Tris (pH 7.5), 10% sucrose, 1 mm dithiothreitol, 2 mm EDTA, and protease inhibitors. The microsomes were then layered onto a 20–50% (w/w) sucrose gradient in 10 mm Tris (pH 7.5), 1 mm dithiothreitol, 2 mm EDTA, and 0.1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. Gradients were centrifuged at 100,000 × g for 16 h, and 1-ml fractions were collected. For analyses performed in the presence of Mg2+, 5 mm MgCl2 was added to homogenization and centrifugation buffers.  Specific membranes were identified by use of antibodies against the ER markers BiP and ACA2 (CITATION), the PM marker H+-ATPase (CITATION), and the tonoplast marker VM23 (CITATION). Thylakoid membranes were identified by spectrophotometric analysis of chlorophyll levels, and Golgi membranes were identified based on Triton-stimulated UDPase activity (CITATION).  Immunoblot analysis was performed as described (CITATION). Two antibodies were used for detection of ETR1. One antibody termed anti-ETR1-(401–738) was generated against amino acids 401–738 of ETR1 (CITATION) and was used to identify full-length ETR1. A second antibody termed anti-ETR1-(165–400) was generated against amino acids 165–400 of ETR1 (CITATION) and was used to identify the truncated receptor ETR1-(1–349).  A monospecific anti-ETR1 antibody was prepared from the polyclonal antibody anti-ETR1-(401–738) (CITATION). The serum was depleted of antibodies that cross-react with glutathione S-transferase (GST) by passing through a column of Affi-Gel-10 (Bio-Rad) cross-linked to GST. The antibody was affinity-purified by binding to an Affi-Gel column cross-linked to GST-ETR1-(401–738) (CITATION), then eluting with 0.1m glycine (pH 2.5). As a final purification step, the antibody was passed through an Affi-Gel column coupled with soluble proteins from Arabidopsis.  Leaf segments of Arabidopsis were fixed with 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde and 1% (w/v) glutaraldehyde, dehydrated, then embedded in Epon 812 resin, and polymerized for 3 days at 60 °C. Thin sections were cut and collected onto naked nickel grids. Section surfaces were etched with 10% H2O2 for 15 min, blocked with 2% (w/v) bovine serum albumin and 0.2 m glycine in PBST (phosphate-buffered saline, 0.02% Tween 20), and then incubated with antibodies in 1% bovine serum albumin/PBST overnight at 4 °C. After washing with PBST, grids were incubated for 1 h with protein A-colloidal gold conjugate (10 nm, Sigma) in 1% bovine serum albumin/PBST, poststained in 5% uranyl acetate for 15 min and lead citrate for 5 min, and then observed with a transmission electron microscope. 
