!~ABS~! Plastid isoprenoids are synthesized via the 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate pathway. A few years after its discovery, most of the Escherichia coli genes involved in the pathway have been identified, including gcpE. In this work, we have identified an Arabidopsis thaliana protein with homology to the product of this gene. The plant polypeptide, GCPE, contains two structural domains that are absent in the E. coli protein: an N-terminal extension and a central domain of 30 kDa. We demonstrate that the N-terminal region targets the Arabidopsis protein to chloroplasts in vivo, consistent with its role in plastid isoprenoid biosynthesis. Although the presence of the internal extra domain may have an effect on activity, the Arabidopsis mature GCPE was able to complement a gcpE-defective E. coli strain, indicating the plant protein is a true functional homologue of the bacterial gcpE gene product.
!~RES~! To identify plant sequences with homology to the E. coli protein encoded by the gcpE gene (accession number AE000338), a similarity search was carried out in the databases available on the NCBI web page using the TBLASTN algorithm. This search retrieved a hypothetical protein predicted by an A. thaliana chromosome V genomic sequence (AB005246) and 21 ESTs. Sequencing of one of the EST clones found, 135H1T7 (T46582), showed that it contained a 2520 bp cDNA sequence with an ORF of 2220 bp encoding a protein of 740 amino acid residues (CITATION ). Comparison of the complete cDNA sequence with that of the corresponding chromosomal gene revealed 20 exons and 19 introns in the region from position 2227 to 6625 in the AB005246 genomic sequence entry (CITATION). A polypeptide sequence (BAB09833) had been predicted from this genomic region earlier by computer analysis in the context of whole genome sequencing. However, the first coding exon had not been predicted correctly, since the N-terminal 25 residues of the protein (from the first methionine residue to the methionine at position 26, deduced to be the translation start point in the database entry) were missing. The sequence data deduced from EST and genomic entries are consistent with a single gene encoding this protein in Arabidopsis. Alignment of the deduced Arabidopsis sequence (GCPE) with that predicted from the E. coli gcpE gene showed that the plant protein contains an N-terminal region of 75 residues that is absent in the bacterial counterpart (CITATION). N-terminal extensions are also found in all the previously described plant enzymes of the MEP pathway and are proposed to comprise a signal sequence for plastid import, consistent with the subcellular localization of the MEP pathway in plants. However, plastid targeting has only been demonstrated for DXS CITATION. The hypothetical cleavage site predicted by the ChloroP program is indicated in CITATION. To determine whether this domain was functional in targeting the protein to plastids, we fused the N-terminal 49 residues of the Arabidopsis protein to GFP for expression of the corresponding fusion protein (N49–GFP) in plant cells. Arabidopsis leaves were microbombarded with constructs to transiently express either GFP or N49–GFP under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. While green fluorescence corresponding to GFP was localized in the cytoplasm and the nucleus, fluorescence from N49–GFP colocalized with chlorophyll autofluorescence (CITATION ). This result shows that the N-terminal peptide fused to GFP is functional in targeting the protein to chloroplasts in vivo, in agreement with a proposed role of GCPE in the MEP pathway for the biosynthesis of plastidic isoprenoids. Besides the N-terminal region, the alignment of the predicted Arabidopsis and E. coli proteins showed the presence of a large additional domain of 268 residues (ca. 30 kDa) in the plant protein (CITATION). The sequence deduced from this domain showed no significant homology with any other known protein. Interestingly, GCPE is the only protein of the MEP pathway containing a large additional domain in the mature plant protein that is absent in the E. coli counterpart. In spite of the overall similarity between Arabidopsis and E. coli sequences (CITATION), the presence of an additional large domain in the plant protein makes a functional analysis especially relevant to ascertain its putative GcpE activity. Since the biochemical activity of the GcpE protein remains to be well established, a complementation assay was carried out using the gcpE-defective E. coli strain EcAB3-3 CITATION. In this strain, which was engineered to synthesize IPP and DMAPP from exogenously supplied MVA (CITATION), the chromosomal gcpE gene is substituted by the CAT marker conferring chloramphenicol resistance. Since the deletion of gcpE prevents IPP and DMAPP biosynthesis via the MEP pathway, mutant EcAB3-3 cells cannot grow unless MVA is supplied CITATION. For the complementation assay, plasmid pQE-AGm was constructed by subcloning the cDNA fragment encoding the predicted Arabidopsis mature protein (lacking the predicted plastid signal peptide) into the pQE30 expression vector. Careful examination of the Arabidopsis sequence revealed the presence of abundant arginine residues, especially in the N-terminal region (CITATION). Since the AGA and AGG codons used for arginine in Arabidopsis are not common in E. coli, it is possible that problems in reading such codons (especially in the regions where they are clustered, like the 5′ region of the cloned cDNA) may block the synthesis of a complete protein from the cloned Arabidopsis cDNA. To address this possibility, we cotransformed EcAB3-3 cells with both pQE-AGm and pUBS520-argU, a plasmid encoding the E. coli minor tRNA(Arg) species that decodes the triplets AGA and AGG CITATION, to create strain EcAB3-3(pQE-AGm). Similarly, strain EcAB3-3(pQE) was created by transforming EcAB3-3 cells with plasmid pQE30 as a control. After selection on plates containing MVA, separate colonies from the generated strains were streaked on plates without MVA (CITATION ). As expected, EcAB3-3(pQE) cells were not able to grow when streaked on plates without MVA but EcAB3-3(pQE-AGm) cells did overcome MVA auxotrophy (CITATION). Our results show that the cloned Arabidopsis cDNA encodes a protein capable of complementing the lethal gcpE-defective E. coli mutant. Together, we have demonstrated that the Arabidopsis GCPE protein is the functional homologue of the E. coli gcpE gene product, despite the differences in their amino acid sequence such as the presence of an additional internal domain in the plant protein. Although it is possible that because of this extra domain the plant GCPE protein could have distinct regulatory or catalytic functions, these remain to be established.
!~MM~! The databases available on the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) web page (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov) were searched using the sequence from the E. coli gcpE gene product (accession number P27433) as a query and the TBLASTN algorithm. EST clone 135H1T7 (T46582) was obtained from the A. thaliana DNA Stock Center at the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC, Ohio State University, OH, USA). Both strands of the cDNA, cloned into the SalI–NotI sites of the pZL1 vector (Gibco-BRL), were sequenced with the ABI PRISM BigDye DNA Sequencing kit (PE Biosystems) using vector primers and gene specific primers. Sequence analyses were performed using the GCG 9.0 software package (Genetics Computer Group Inc.) and the available NCBI web programs. Plastid targeting signals were predicted with ChloroP (www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/chlorop). A 0.3 kb EcoRI fragment from the 5′ region of the cDNA in clone 135H1T7 was cloned into pGFP-MRC CITATION. In the resulting construct, the CaMV 35S promoter directed the expression of the fusion protein N49–green fluorescent protein (GFP), in which the 5′ untranslated region and the sequence encoding the first 49 amino acid residues of the Arabidopsis GCPE protein were fused in frame to the N-terminus of a synthetic GFP. Subcellular localization of the N49–GFP fusion protein in Arabidopsis leaf cells was detected by green fluorescence after microbombardment using a Biolistic PDS-1000/He system (Bio-Rad) as described CITATION. Plasmid pQE-AGm was created by subcloning a BglII–SphI cDNA fragment from clone 135H1T7 (encoding the predicted Arabidopsis mature GCPE protein) into the BamHI–SphI sites of pQE30 (Qiagen). The complementation assay was carried out using the E. coli strain EcAB3-3 CITATION. After electroporation of competent cells with pQE-AGm and plasmid pUBS520-argU CITATION, transformants were selected on LB plates containing 17 μg/ml chloramphenicol, 100 μg/ml ampicillin, 0.4 mM IPTG, 100 μg/ml kanamycin, 0.04% arabinose, and 0.5 mM MVA. The ability of the cloned protein to rescue the lethal disruption of the gcpE gene was tested by streaking independent colonies on plates without MVA.
