!~ABS~! Sigma factor binding proteins are involved in modifying the promoter preferences of the RNA polymerase in bacteria. We found the nuclear encoded protein (SibI) that is transported into chloroplasts and interacts specifically with the region 4 of Sig1 in Arabidopsis . SibI and its homologue, T3K9.5 are novel proteins, which are not homologous to any protein of known function. The expression of sibI was tissue specific, light dependent, and developmentally timed. We suggest the transcriptional regulation by sigma factor binding proteins to function in the plastids of higher plant.
!~RES~! Sig1 is thought as one of the most abundant sigma factors in A. thaliana CITATION . We have searched proteins interacting with the R4 of Sig1 by yeast two-hybrid screening. Two positive clones were obtained, which encoded the same protein, but were heterogeneous in the length of their 3′-UTR ( CITATION ). To identify the corresponding full-length cDNA, we screened the A. thaliana cDNA library by using the obtained cDNA fragment as a probe. The largest open reading frame in the longest cDNA encoded 151 aa residues. This protein was named SibI ( si gma factor b inding protein I ). The sibI gene exists as a single copy in the genome (Southern hybridization analysis, data not shown; Arabidopsis genome project). Database searches showed that SibI is not homologous to any protein of known function. However, one homologue with 56.3% identity to SibI in A. thaliana was found (T3K9.5: GenBank accession number AC004261 ). Some cDNA fragments from A. thaliana databases (GenBank accession number AI992550 ) and other plant species also showed partial similarity to the SibI cDNA. We tested the interaction between SibI and the Sig1R4 by GST pull-down assays. Each preparation of MBP and MBP–SibI was incubated with GST–Sig1R4 and the GST–Sig2R4 immobilized on beads. CITATION shows the SDS–PAGE image of proteins eluted by glutathione solution. Lanes 1–3 are the control experiments done with the addition of neither MBP–SibI nor MBP. MBP–SibI was detected only in the eluate from the GST–Sig1R4 beads (lane 5). Comparison of the input fraction (lane 10) and the eluate (lane 5) clearly shows that MBP–SibI was selectively concentrated by the binding to the GST–Sig1R4 beads. MBP was not detected in the elution from the GST–Sig1R4 (lane 8) and MBP–SibI was not detected in the elution from the GST beads (lane 6). These indicate that binding patches are on the portions of SibI and Sig1R4 in the fusion proteins. Western analysis with anti-SibI peptide antibody confirmed that MBP–SibI specifically co-eluted with GST–Sig1R4, and little with GST–Sig2R4 ( CITATION ). The comparison of lane 13 (the eluate) and lane 15 (input fraction of 1/10 volume) suggests that more than 50% of the loaded MBP–SibI was bound to the GST–Sig1R4 beads. Thus, the results of the pull-down assays confirmed the direct and specific interaction of SibI with the Sig1R4. The binding specificity of SibI to Sig1R4 among plastid sigma factors in A. thaliana was examined by yeast two-hybrid assays ( CITATION ). Yeast cells co-transformed with pAS-sig1R4 and pACT-sibI (expressing AD–SibI hybrid) were histidine-autotrophic and lacZ positive. In contrast, none of baits containing R4 of Sig2, Sig4, or Sig5 activated the His and lacZ reporter gene expressions in the presence of pACT-sibI, indicating that the interaction between SibI and Sig1R4 is specific among the examined R4s of plastid sigma factors. N-terminal region of SibI is positively charged and rich in hydroxylated amino acid residues ( CITATION ); this is a feature of chloroplast targeting signals, transit peptides. Considering the chloroplast localization of Sig1 in A. thaliana CITATION , it is expected that SibI functions in chloroplasts. We examined the chloroplast import of SibI by the protoplast transient expression of GFP fusion proteins. As expected, import of GFP into chloroplasts was detected in the protoplasts transformed with the TP-F and RBCS1A (positive control), but not in those transformed with CaMV35S-sGFP(S65T)-nos3′ (negative control) ( CITATION ). From these results, we concluded that SibI carries the chloroplast targeting transit signal and localizes in chloroplasts. sibI mRNAs abundantly accumulated in cauline leaves, rosette leaves and roots, but not in flowers and flower stalk ( CITATION ). The size of the mRNA in roots was larger than those in other tissues, suggesting the possible existence of the tissue-specific post-transcriptional regulation. In the cotyledons and young leaves of 10 days old, sibI mRNA was not detected independent of light or dark ( CITATION ). While, in older rosette leaves, the sibI mRNA level was clearly light-dependent as greatly reduced by the 24 h dark adaptation (lane b), and recovered by 3 h re-illumination to the level higher than that before dark adaptation ( CITATION ).
!~MM~! The cDNA corresponding to the C-terminal 89 aa of A. thaliana Sig1 was amplified by RT-PCR with primers Eco-sig1, 5′-CG GAATTC CGTTTGGAGAACAATCCG-3′, and Pst-sig1, 5′-GG CTGCAG TCAATTCTTAAGGATCAT-3′. The amplified fragment was cloned into Eco RI– Pst I site of pAS2-1 (TRP1; Clontech) to express the GAL4 DNA binding domain (BD)–Sig1 region 4 fusion protein (pAS-sig1R4). A. thaliana (Columbia) MATCHMAKER cDNA library in pGAD10 (LEU2; Clontech) was screened by using pAS-sig1R4 according to the manufactures’ instructions. Full-length cDNA was obtained from A. thaliana (Columbia) 5′-STRETCH cDNA library (Clontech) by a standard procedure. The cDNAs corresponding to the entire coding sequence of sibI and t3k9.5 (see CITATION ) were amplified by RT-PCR and cloned into Nco I– Bam HI site of pACT2 (Clontech) to generate plasmids, pACT-sibI and pACT-t3k9.5 designed to express AD–SibI and AD–T3K9.5 hybrid, respectively. The cDNAs corresponding to C-terminal regions of Sig2 (89 aa), Sig4 (90 aa) and Sig5 (87 aa) were amplified by RT-PCR and cloned into Eco RI– Pst I site of pAS2-1 to generate a series of plasmids: pAS-sig2R4, pAS-sig4R4 and pAS-sig5R4. These plasmids were introduced into the yeast reporter strain, CG1945, together with pACT-sibI, pACT-t3k9.5, or pTD1-1 to be tested for their reporter genes expression. As a positive control, pTD1-1 and pVA3-1 were used, which encode AD–SV40 large T antigen and BD–murine p53 fusion protein, respectively. The β-galactosidase activity was quantified according to manufacturer’s instruction using CRGP substrate. SibI was expressed as a fusion protein with MBP (MBP–SibI) in E. coli JM109 (pMALc2, New England Biolabs). MBP–SibI was recovered from the inclusion body or from the soluble fraction by standard methods. MBP–SibI recovered from the inclusion body was collected as the fraction precipitated by 20–30% ammonium sulfate. To recover MBP–SibI from soluble fraction, amylose column was used according to manufacturer’s suggestions. The samples were stored at −20°C until use. GST and GST fusion proteins with the Sig1R4 (GST–Sig1R4) and the Sig2R4 (GST–Sig2R4) were expressed in E. coli BL21, and immobilized on glutathione Sepharose 4B beads according to the manufacturer’s instructions (pGEX-4T-1, Pharmacia Biotech). The binding tests for MBP–SibI and MBP to the prepared beads were done by incubating each combination of the samples at 25°C for 1 h in buffer A (20 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.3, 150 mM NaCl). After complete wash by buffer A, bound proteins were eluted by a glutathione solution (50 mM glutathione, 150 mM NaCl, and 100 mM Tris–HCl, pH 8.0) and the eluates were analyzed by SDS–PAGE followed by silver staining ( CITATION ) or Western analysis ( CITATION ). For the latter, rabbit polyclonal antisera were prepared against synthetic SibI oligopeptide (CRVLHQEPFGERDSD) by Sawady Technology (Japan). Anti-SibI peptide antibody was affinity-purified with the synthetic oligopeptide. Western analysis was carried out with PVDF membranes and ECL kit (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). The cDNA fragment corresponding to the full-length of SibI (TP-F) was amplified by PCR with primers, U-Nco: 5′-GG CCATGG AGTCATCATCGT-3′ and D-NcoFull: 5′-GC CCATGG AATCGATGCTTC-3′. The resulting DNA fragment was digested with Nco I and cloned into Nco I site of CaMV35S-sGFP(S65T)-nos3′ vector CITATION . The plasmids expressing GFP alone (CaMV35S-sGFP(S65T)-nos3′) and GFP fused with the transit peptide of RbcS (RBCS1A, CITATION ) were kindly gifted by Drs. Niwa and Kobayashi (University of Shizuoka) and used as the negative and positive controls, respectively. Protoplasts isolated from rosette leaves of 4-week-old A. thaliana grown under 8 h photoperiods were transformed with each of the plasmids as previously described CITATION . GFP fluorescence from the transformed protoplasts was observed by a conventional fluorescence microscope (OLYMPUS, IMT2-RFC). The images obtained by Cool Snap ver. 1.0.0 (Rover Inc.) were processed using Adobe Photoshop 4.0. A. thaliana (Columbia) was grown at 25°C on vermiculite for 4 weeks under 16 h photoperiods to examine the tissue specificity of sibI mRNA accumulation and for 7 weeks under continuous light to examine the effect of light. Flower stalks were nipped off to avoid senescence of rosette leaves. To examine the sibI expression in young seedlings, seeds were plated onto RM medium containing 3% sucrose CITATION , and grown at 25°C under 16 h photoperiods for 10 days. Total RNAs were prepared as described previously CITATION . Northern hybridization was done with 10 or 30 μg each of the total RNAs using the Acc I– Cla I fragment of sibI labeled with [α- 32 P]dCTP as a probe.
