!~ABS~! Ion compartmentalization is essential for plant growth and development. The Arabidopsis open reading frames for CAX1, CAX2, and CAX3 (cation exchangers 1, 2, and 3) were previously identified as transporters that may modulate ion fluxes across the vacuolar membrane. To understand the diversity and role of H+/cation transporters in controlling plant ion levels, another homolog of theCAX genes, CAX4, was cloned from an Arabidopsis cDNA library. CAX4 is 53% identical to CAX1 at the amino acid level, 42% identical to CAX2, and 54% identical to CAX3.CAX4 transcripts appeared to be expressed at low levels in all tissues and levels of CAX4 RNA increased after Mn2+, Na+, and Ni2+ treatment. An N-terminal CAX4-hemagglutinin fusion appeared to localize to both yeast and plant vacuolar membranes. When expressed in yeast, CAX4, like CAX3, failed to suppress the Ca2+ sensitivity of yeast strains deficient in vacuolar Ca2+ transport. Several modifications to CAX4 allowed the protein to transport Ca2+. Addition of amino acids to the N terminus of CAX4 and CAX3 caused both transporters to suppress the sensitivity of yeast strains deficient in vacuolar Ca2+ transport. These findings suggest that CAX transporters may modulate their ion transport properties through alterations at the N terminus.
!~RES~! To further understand the diversity of H+/cation antiporters, we were interested in cloning and characterizing other CAX-like genes from Arabidopsis. The sequence of the Arabidopsis genome suggests that several other putative H+/cation antiporters exist that may function in ion homeostasis (CITATION). The open reading frame most similar to the previously characterized CAX genes is located on chromosome 5 and has been designated CAX4. Specific primers were synthesized according to genomic sequence from an Arabidopsis BAC clone F7A7_10 and template DNA was derived from an Arabidopsis Landsbergerecta cDNA library (CITATION) to clone CAX4 by a PCR-based approach. The cloned CAX4 open reading frame contained 1,341 nucleotides, which could encode 446 amino acids and produce a putative 49-kD protein (Fig. 1A). The CAX4 open reading frame has many of the signature elements of H+/Ca2+ antiporters characterized from bacteria, fungi and plants (CITATION). CAX4 has approximately the same M ras many microbial H+/Ca2+antiporters, and computer-assisted hydropathy analyses generated profiles for CAX4 that are similar to CAX1, CAX2, and CAX3 (Fig. 1B). Like these open reading frames, CAX4 contains a central hydrophilic motif rich in acidic amino acid residues (the acidic motif) that bisects the polypeptide into two groups of approximately equal length. CAX4 is 53% identical (67% similar) to CAX1, 54% identical to CAX3 (69% similar), and 42% identical to CAX2 (52% similar). CAX4 contains an N-terminal hydrophilic region that is similar to the CAX1 autoinhibitory domain (CITATION). The putative Ca2+ domain of CAX4 does not resemble the Ca2+ domains of the previously characterized CAX genes (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] The expression of CAX1 and CAX2 correlates with the transport properties of each transporter in yeast (CITATION; CITATION). That is, the high-affinity, high-capacity H+/Ca2+ transporter CAX1 is highly expressed in response to exogenous Ca2+ in plants, whereas the low-affinity H+/Ca2+ transporter CAX2 is not induced by exogenous Ca2+ in plants. To test the expression of CAX4, standard northern analysis using total RNA was done using the entire CAX4 coding sequence. Using a variety of experimental conditions, no CAX4 transcripts could be detected (data not shown); however, using a more sensitive reverse transcription (RT)-PCR approach, we were able to amplify CAX4 specific cDNA in all tissues analyzed (Fig. 2A). This semiquantitative approach suggests that CAX4 RNA levels increased slightly in response to Mn2+, Ni2+, and Na+, and were not induced by other ions such as Ca2+ (Fig.2B).  [[FIGURE]] To test the properties of CAX4, we expressed the open reading frame in various yeast strains. The CAX4 cDNA was placed initially under the transcriptional control of the yeast promoter glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase (GPD) on a high-copy-number yeast plasmid (CITATION). This plasmid was then introduced into yeast strains that contained defects in vacuolar Ca2+transport to determine whether CAX4 could suppress yeast vacuolar Ca2+ transport mutants in a manner similar to the N-terminal truncated CAX1 (sCAX1) and CAX2 (CITATION). As shown in Figure 3A, sCAX1 suppresses this growth defect. Under these assay conditions, CAX2 suppresses the Ca2+ sensitivity in a manner indistinguishable from sCAX1 (CITATION; data not shown); however, like CAX3 (CITATION), CAX4 was not able to suppress the Ca2+ sensitivity of yeast strains deficient in vacuolar Ca2+ transport.  [[FIGURE]] We also tested the possibility that CAX4 transports other metals, thus making the host yeast strains tolerant (or hypersensitive to) to these metals. Expression of CAX4 in a Mg2+ requiring strain (CM66) did not suppress the ion sensitivity of this strain (CITATION). A range of metals, such as Al3+, Cd2+, Cu2+, Ni2+, Na+, and Zn2+, was tested with a K661 yeast strain expressing CAX4. For such metal sensitivity assays, this yeast strain is indistinguishable from wild-type strains in our assay conditions (CITATION). CAX4 expression did not alter the yeast growth on any media except Cd2+ (data not shown). An Arabidopsis plasma membrane ion transporter, IRT1, can transport Cd2+ into the cytosol, and when expressed in wild-type yeast strains (DY1457), it causes the strain to be more sensitive to Cd2+ (CITATION; Fig. 3B). When CAX4 was expressed in the yeast strain harboring IRT1, CAX4 was able to partially rescue the Cd2+ sensitivity of the IRT1-expressing strain (Fig. 3B). The inability of CAX4 to suppress the Ca2+sensitivity of yeast mutants defective in vacuolar Ca2+ transport could be due to targeting of the protein to a different membrane. To identify the cellular location of CAX4 in yeast, an epitope-tagged variant was generated by the fusion of a triple copy of HA to the N terminus (HA:CAX4). An N-terminal HA epitope tag has previously been used to identify the cellular location of VCX1, CAX1, and CAX3 in yeast (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As shown in Figure4, western-blot analysis of yeast membranes fractionated on Suc gradients showed that CAX4 cofractionated with vacuolar membranes. The distribution of HA:CAX4 corresponded with that of HA:sCAX1 and the yeast vacuolar membrane marker, alkaline phosphatase.  [[FIGURE]] The localization of HA:CAX4 on the vacuolar membrane of plants was shown by the heterologous expression of the CAX4 fusion protein in a suspension of tobacco cells. The fusion protein under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter was expressed in tobacco BY-2 cells. In the case of BY-2 cells, many vacuoles are generally observed in a single cell (CITATION). As shown in Figure 5, A and B, confocal images of red fluorescent signals stained by Texas Red conjugated antibody revealed that HA:CAX4 is localized in the vacuolar membrane.  [[FIGURE]] To confirm vacuolar membrane localization of the fusion protein, the crude membrane fraction of tobacco cells was subjected to Suc gradient centrifugation and immunoblotting with the anti-HA antibody. The distribution of the fusion protein (fractions from 26% to 33%) was paralleled by that of a vacuolar marker (mung bean vacuolar pyrophosphatase) and not that of an endoplasmic reticulum marker (plant endoplasmic reticulum luminal protein) and a plant plasma membrane marker (radish plasma membrane aquaporin; Fig. 5C). Given that the N terminus appears to act as an autoinhibitory domain for CAX1 Ca2+ transport in yeast, we were interested in testing whether the N terminus of CAX4 acts as an autoinhibitory domain. Truncated and, thus, possibly active, versions of CAX4 (sCAX4) should not be present in cDNA libraries because the CAX4 open reading frame, unlike the CAX1 and CAX2 open reading frames, does not contain a Met residue after the putative autoinhibitory domain. We, thus, created a truncated version of CAX4 by deleting the first 37 amino acids of CAX4 and replacing the Ser residue at position 38 with a Met residue. Yeast strains expressing sCAX1 grow well in the Ca2+-containing media, whereas the sCAX4 expressing cells grow poorly (Fig. 6A). The growth of several sCAX4 expressing cells is meaningful when compared with the complete absence of growth for CAX4 or vector expressing yeast cells (Fig. 6A).  [[FIGURE]] Insertion of the CAX1 Ca2+ domain into CAX3 allows yeast cells expressing this chimeric construct to suppress vacuolar Ca2+ transport defects (CITATION). Given that this region of CAX4 is unlike CAX1, CAX2, or CAX3, we proceeded to change the 11 amino acids in this region to the amino acids found in the CAX1 Ca2+ domain. Although we have altered 11 amino acids, we have termed this construct CAX4–9 so that the nomenclature will be consistent with similar modifactions made in CAX2 and CAX3 (CITATION). Yeast cells expressing CAX4–9 grew weakly in Ca2+ containing media at a rate comparable with sCAX4 expressing cells (Fig. 6A). We then created chimeric CAX4 constructs containing both the N-terminal truncation and the CAX1 Ca2+ domain (sCAX4–9). Yeast cells expressing sCAX4–9 suppressed the vacuolar Ca2+ transport defects in a manner indistinguishable from CAX1 variants, which lack the N-terminal autoinhibitory domain (Fig. 6A). To confirm that the Ca2+ tolerance observed for the sCAX4–9 expressing yeast strain was due to a restoration of Ca2+ transport activity, H+/45Ca2+transport was measured from endomembrane vesicles obtained from sCAX4–9-expressing yeast cells. H+/Ca2+ transport by sCAX4–9 was measured using 10 μm 45CaCl2, and was comparable with the activity observed for sCAX1-containing vesicles, whereas transport was not found in vesicles harboring CAX4 (Fig. 6B). Alterations in the N terminus can alter the function of many proteins, including the soluble insulin-like growth factor-I. Even additional N-terminal residues can alter the activity of this growth regulator (CITATION). We were interested in determining whether N-terminal additions could also alter the activity of CAX4 or the other CAX transporters. Due to the localization studies, we already had a series of HA-tags fused to the N terminus of the CAX genes. As shown in Figure 7, addition of HA allows CAX4-expressing yeast cells to suppress vacuolar Ca2+ transport mutations in a manner indistinguishable from sCAX1 expression.  [[FIGURE]] To verify that HA:CAX4 suppression was due to the altered conformation of CAX4 and not expression of the HA, we made a CAX4 construct containing 10 arbitrary amino acids fused to the N terminus (rCAX4). Yeast cells expressing rCAX4 weakly suppressed the vacuolar Ca2+ transport mutations. This growth was subtle and like sCAX4 and CAX4–9 could be monitored by the growth of small individual yeast colonies on Ca2+ containing media (Fig. 7). This growth on Ca2+ containing media was significantly weaker than the HA:CAX4 growth but was meaningful compared with the complete lack of yeast growth by vector expressing cells. Expression of HA:CAX1 and HA:CAX3 in yeast also suppressed the vacuolar Ca2+ transport defects. Furthermore, expression of the N-terminal one-half of ubiquitin fused to CAX1 at the N terminus (nub:CAX1) also suppressed the yeast mutations. Suppression with HA:CAX1 or nub:CAX1 was consistently stronger than HA:CAX3 suppression (Fig. 7). H+/Ca2+ transport activity was observed from HA:CAX1, HA:CAX3, HA:CAX4, and nub:CAX1 vesicle preparations (data not shown).
!~MM~! All novel materials described in this publication will be made available in a timely manner for noncommercial research purposes, subject to the requisite permission from any third-party owners of all or parts of the material. Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia was used in this study. Seeds were germinated in artificial soil (Metro-Mix 200, Scotts-Sierra, Maysville, OH) and grown and treated with different metal solutions as previously described (CITATION).  Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains K661MATa vcx1^ and K667 (cnb1::Leu1 pmc1::TRP1 vcx1) were used. Those strains have the following additional mutations:ade2-1, can1-100, his3-11,15leu2-3, 112trp1-1 and ura3-1(CITATION). The wild-type yeast strain, W301A, and the magnesium-requiring strain, CM66, were used for metal sensitivity assay (CITATION; CITATION). The yeast strain CM66 (alr1::HIS3 alr2::TRP1 his3-200 ura3-52 leu2-1 lys2-202 trp1-63) was obtained from Dr. Richard Gardner (University of Auckland). The pFL61/IRT1 in DY1457 and pFL61 alone in DY1457 yeast strains were obtained from Dr. Erin Connolly (University of South Carolina, Columbia). Yeast cells were transformed using the lithium acetate method and selected on synthetic complete minus His (SC-His) media (CITATION). For Ca2+ tolerance assays, yeast were grown at 30°C for 1 to 3 d on solid YPD medium containing 2% (w/v) yeast extract (DIFCO Laboratories, Detroit), 1% (w/v) bacto-peptone, and 2% (w/v) dextrose, and supplemented with 175 or 200 mm CaCl2 (CITATION). We used 175 mm CaCl2 in some experiments because the HA:CAX4 expressing strains grew poorly at 200 mm CaCl2. The liquid Ca2+ tolerance assays were done as previously described (CITATION). CAX4 was identified on a BAC clone F7A7_10 (GenBank accession no. AL161946). To clone the full-length cDNA of this gene, two oligonucleotide primers that are complementary to the 5′ and 3′ ends of the predicted CAX4 gene were generated: CAX4 forward primer, 5′-TCTAGAAGATGTCTTCAATCAGTACGG-3′ and CAX4 reverse primer: 5′-GGCGAGCTCTTATCAAAAGAGAAGCTTACTTGA-3′.XbaI and SacI sites (underlined) were introduced for subcloning. Two micrograms of an Arabidopsis Landsbergerecta cDNA library (CITATION) was screened using the CAX4 specific primers. The conditions for amplification were 95°C for 2 min followed by 35 cycles at 94°C for 30 s, 60°C for 30 s, 72°C for 2 min, and 72°C for 10 min. The amplified fragments were gel-purified using QIAGENE MAX (Qiagen USA, Valencia, CA) and cloned into pGEM-T-easy vector (Promega, Madison, WI). Multiple clones were completely sequenced. CAX4 cDNAs were also amplified from cDNA pools that were extracted from Arabidopsis seedling (Col. Ecotype; see below). All clones identified were identical to the original clone isolated from the cDNA library. RNA was isolated using the RNeasy Plant Kit (Qiagen USA), according to the manufacturer's instructions. RNA samples were treated with DNase to minimize any contamination of genomic DNA. Quantitative RT-PCR was performed to detect CAX4 mRNA transcript. The first strand of cDNA was synthesized using 0.2 μg of total RNA as template in 20 μL of reaction mixture, which included 0.5 μg of oligo(dT)(12–18) primer and 200 units of Superscript II transcriptase (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). One microliter of the first strand cDNA was used to amplify a CAX4 gene-specific fragment and an actin 1 fragment (CITATION). Sense and antisense primers for CAX4 and actin 1 were used at concentrations of 0.5 μm each in amplification conditions identical to those used to isolate CAX4 (5′-TCTAGAAGATGTCTTCAATCAGTACGG-3′ and 5′-CCACATGTGGCGTTCATTAAT-3′ [CAX4] and 5′-GTGCTCGACTCTGGAGATGGTGTG-3′ and 5′-CGGCGATTCCAGGGAACATTGTGG-3′ [actin 1]). PCR products were run on 2.5% (w/v) agarose gels and stained with ethidium bromide. The gels were photographed with a digital camera (Kodak, Rochester, NY), and the net intensity of individual PCR products was determined using Kodak ID 2.02 analysis software. The relative intensities in different lanes within each individual experiment were independent of the number of PCR cycles performed. The truncated CAX4 gene was amplified with sCAX4 forward primer: 5′-GCTCTAGAGGATCCGAGATGGCGTCGTCGTTGATAAGGAAG-3′ and CAX4 reverse primer as described above. To fuse the triple HA epitope (YPYDVPDYA) to the N terminus of CAX4, HA fragment and CAX4 fragment were generated, respectively, using the following primer sets: HA-5: 5′-GAATTCTCTAGAATGGGCCGCATCTTTATCCCATACGAT-3′ and HA-3: 5′-CCGTACTGATTGAAGACATGCACTGAGCAGCGTAATC-3′ for HA fragment; CAX4–5: 5′-AGATTACGCTGCTCAGTGCATGTCTTCAATCAGTACG-3′ and CAX4 reverse primer as described above for CAX4. HA:CAX4 fusion fragment was amplified with HA-5 and CAX4 reverse primer. Mutagenesis was performed to replace the 11 amino acid residues of the Ca2+ domain of CAX4 with that of CAX1 (CITATION) using primers: 5′-GAATTCCGTCTCCCGCCATTATTTGCACCTATTGTGGCGTCAGTCAGCCTTGGGTCTTTGCGTTGAGC-3′ and 5′-GAATTCCGTCTCCGGCGAGAGGAACGGCCGGGAAG-3′. The type IIS restriction enzyme BsmBI site is underlined. The bold letters indicate the introduced CAX1 11 amino acid residues. The italic letters indicated the CAX4 sequences. To generate an in-frame fusion of 10 arbitrary amino acid residues to N terminus of CAX4, mutagenesis was performed as described above. The following primer was used to create the 10 arbitrary amino acid residues at the N terminus of CAX4 in piHGpd: 5′-GAA TTC CGT CTC CCG CCG ATG (AGC) NN (GAC) NN (CGA) NN (AGC) NN (GAC) NN (CGA) NN (GCA) NN (CAG) NN (ACG) NN (CGA) NN ATG TCT TCA ATC AGT ACG G-3′. The type IIS restriction enzyme BsmBI site is underlined. The bold letters indicate the introduced 10 arbitrary amino acid residues. The italic letters indicated the CAX4 sequences (CITATION). All PCR amplifications were performed using Expand High Fidelity PCR System (Roche Molecular Biochemicals, Indianapolis), and products were cloned into pGEM-T-easy vector (Promega, Madison, WI). Multiple clones of each construct were sequenced. The gene fragments of CAX4, CAX4 variants and HA:CAX4 were subcloned into the yeast expression vector piHGpd (CITATION) at XbaI/SacI sites for expression in yeast (CITATION). To generate an in-frame fusion of N-terminal ubiquitin (nub) to CAX1, the 37 amino acids of nub were amplified by PCR from plasmid pNubG-ALG5 (CITATION; obtained from Dr. I. Stagljar, University of Zurich-Irchel) using the forward primer (5′-CGC GGA TCC ATG CAG ATT TTC GTC AAG ACT-3′) and reverse primer (5′-AAT GCC ATG GAG GGA TAC CTT CCT TGT CTT G-3′). A BamHI site (underlined) was generated into the forward primer, and an NcoI site (underlined) was generated into the reverse primer. CAX1 was amplified by PCR from the original CAX1 cDNA clone in pBluescript using the forward primer (5′-CGC GGA TCC AAA A CC ATG G AT GGC GGG AAT CGT GAC AGA GCC GTG G-3′) and reverse primer (5′-AAC GAG CTC TTA TCT AGA TGA GAA AAC TCC TCC TCC TGT TGC A-3′). A BamHI site (underlined) and anNcoI site (double underlined) were generated into the forward primer, and a SacI site (underlined) was generated into the reverse primer. CAX1 was cloned into theBamHI-SacI site of the yeast expression vector piHGpd. To fuse nub to the 5′ end of CAX1, nub was subcloned into the BamHI-NcoI site of CAX1-piHGpd, generating nub:CAX1. Microsomal membranes were prepared from yeast expressing HA:CAX1 and HA:CAX4, essentially as described by CITATION, with a few modifications (CITATION). Immunoblots were performed and the HA epitope was detected essentially as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Microsomal membrane-enriched vesicles were isolated from the yeast cells expressing various constructs (CITATION;CITATION), essentially as described by CITATION. Time-dependent H+/Ca2+ transport into endomembrane vesicles was examined using the direct filtration method (CITATION), with a minor modification as described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Cold CaCl2 (10 μm) including45Ca2+ (carrier free, American Radiolabeled Chemicals, St. Louis) was used in this examination. The coding region of HA:CAX4 was cloned into pBIN19 (CLONTECH, Palo Alto, CA), which contained the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S-promoter fragment and nos terminator (CITATION). The recombinant plasmids, or vector controls, were transformed into tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv BY-2) cells mediated byAgrobacterium tumefaciens (strain LBA4404; Invitrogen) as previously described (CITATION). To determine the subcellular localization of CAX4 in plant cells, transformed BY-2 cells (HA:CAX4) were subcultured for 4 d and then fixed with 3.7% (w/v) formaldehyde in 50 mmNa2HPO4 overnight at 4°C. The fixed cells were washed three times with 1× phosphate-buffered saline (pH 7.0) and dried on slides, and then treated with 0.5% (w/v) Triton X-100 for 5 min. Cells were blocked with 3% (w/v) bovine serum albumin and then applied with monoclonal antibody against HA at a 1:500 dilution. After treatment with primary antibody, cells were incubated with rabbit IgG against mouse IgG conjugated with Texas Red (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR), washed four times with 1× phosphate-buffered saline, and then mounted with Aqua Poly/Mount (Polysciences Inc., Warrington, PA). The images were observed and captured by laser scanning biological microscope (Fluoview, Olympus America Inc., Melville, NY; CITATION). To determine the intracellular localization of the fusion protein by immunoblotting, the transformed cells subcultured for 4 d were homogenized and treated as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). Detection of the marker proteins was performed as described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Enhanced chemiluminescence was performed according to the instructions given by the manufacturer (Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK). To ensure reproducibility of the results obtained from immunoblots, at least three independent experiments were performed at exposure times which varied from 2 to 30 min.
