!~ABS~! Plant microtubules are organized into specific cell cycle-dependent arrays that have been implicated in diverse cellular processes, including cell division and organized cell expansion. Mutations in fourArabidopsis genes collectively called the PILZ group result in lethal embryos that consist of one or a few grossly enlarged cells. The mutant embryos lack microtubules but not actin filaments. Whereas the cytokinesis-specific syntaxin KNOLLE is not localized properly, trafficking of the putative auxin efflux carrier PIN1 to the plasma membrane is normal. The four PILZ group genes were isolated by map-based cloning and are shown to encode orthologs of mammalian tubulin-folding cofactors (TFCs) C, D, and E, and associated small G-protein Arl2 that mediate the formation of α/β-tubulin heterodimers in vitro. The TFC C ortholog, PORCINO, was detected in cytosolic protein complexes and did not colocalize with microtubules. Another gene with a related, although weaker, embryo-lethal phenotype,KIESEL, was shown to encode a TFC A ortholog. Our genetic ablation of microtubules shows their requirement in cell division and vesicle trafficking during cytokinesis, whereas cell growth is mediated by microtubule-independent vesicle trafficking to the plasma membrane during interphase. 
!~RES~! Mutations in four PILZ group genes, PORCINO(POR), HALLIMASCH (HAL), CHAMPIGNON(CHO), and PFIFFERLING (PFI) give nearly identical mutant phenotypes (CITATION). The mutant embryos consist of one or a few grossly enlarged cells, surrounded by an endosperm that fails to cellularize and contains but a few very big nuclei (Fig. 1a,d). A large-scale screen for mutations affecting cell division in embryogenesis led to the isolation of 12 new mutants with the characteristic pilzphenotype. They were all shown by complementation analysis to be additional alleles of the four PILZ group genes. In total, each PILZ group gene is represented by eight mutant alleles on average (see Table 1), suggesting saturation, that is, all Arabidopsis genes that mutate to the characteristic pilz mutant phenotype have been identified. In addition, we isolated three mutant lines with a related, although weaker embryo phenotype (Fig. 1b,e). These mutants are alleles of a new gene that we have named KIESEL (KIS). kismutant embryos consist of variably enlarged cells with cell-wall stubs, which is reminiscent of the cytokinesis-defective mutantsknolle and keule (Fig. 1b,e; CITATION). The phenotype of kis embryos could also be interpreted as a weaker variant of the pilz phenotype that is variably penetrant within a given embryo (Fig. 1, cf. b and e with a, d, and f). In contrast to pilz mutant endosperm (Fig. 1a), however,kis mutant endosperm is indistinguishable from wild-type endosperm in regard to nuclear multiplication and subsequent cellularization (Fig. 1c,e,f). These observations suggest that theKIS gene is predominantly required in the developing embryo.  [[FIGURE]] Arabidopsis tubulin-folding cofactors (TFCs) and their homologs in other organisms  Plant cells display specific microtubule arrays in a cell cycle-dependent manner and accumulate the cytokinesis-specific syntaxin KNOLLE at the plane of division during mitosis (Fig. 2a–d; CITATION). pilz group mutant embryos did not display microtubule staining and failed to localize KNOLLE in mitotic cells (Fig. 2e–h). In contrast, kis mutants showed microtubule arrays (Fig. 2i–l). However, enlarged cells ofkis mutant embryos were slightly abnormal in their microtubule organization. kis mutant cells undergoing cytokinesis divided abnormally, although they displayed phragmoplast microtubules and accumulated the KNOLLE syntaxin in the forming cell plate (Fig. 2k,l). Taken together, there was a close correlation between microtubule defects and abnormal embryo development.  [[FIGURE]] In plant cells, microtubules and actin filaments form closely associated cytoskeletal arrays during cell division (CITATION). We therefore wondered whether actin filaments were also affected in pilz group mutant embryos. To test this possibility, we examined the actin cytoskeleton in por mutants by immunofluorescence staining with a monoclonal anti-actin antibody (Fig. 3). As a test for staining specificity, we treated wild-type root cells with the actin-depolymerizing drug latrunculin B, which abolished the immunofluorescence signal (Fig. 3a–d; see also CITATION). In addition, we observed phragmoplast-specific actin staining in wild-type cells undergoing cytokinesis, confirming the specificity of our staining procedure (Fig. 3e,f). Wild-type embryos displayed a fine mesh of actin filaments (Fig. 3g,h). Actin filaments were not noticeably affected in por mutant embryos, although their interphase cells were grossly enlarged as compared with wild-type (Fig.3i,j). Actin filaments were also observed in other pilz mutant embryos (data not shown). In addition, kis mutant embryos displayed actin filaments as well (Fig. 3k,l). Thus, the cytoskeletal defect of por and kis mutant cells was confined to microtubules, whereas actin filaments were present.  [[FIGURE]] The development of pilz group mutant embryos is arrested because they are unable to undergo cell division. However, the mutant cells stay alive, increase in size, and express cell-cycle regulators until late in embryogenesis (CITATION). To determine whether their subcellular organization is affected, we analyzed pormutants by high-pressure-freezing/freeze-substitution electron microscopy (Fig. 4a,b). The Golgi stacks were normal, suggesting that the endomembrane system was not markedly affected. Electron-dense membrane vesicles accumulated in the cytoplasm and were often in close association with cell-wall fragments that form when cytokinesis is blocked (Fig. 4b). In contrast, dividing cells of wild-type embryos did not accumulate such vesicles in the vicinity of the forming cell plate (Fig. 4a). This result suggests that the absence of microtubules interferes with the delivery of membrane vesicles to the division plane.  [[FIGURE]] The pilz mutant embryos consist of one or a few grossly enlarged cells, indicating that cell growth continues in the absence of cell division. To determine whether or not vesicle trafficking to the cell surface was affected in mutant embryos, we examined the subcellular localization of the putative auxin efflux carrier, PIN1, an integral plasma-membrane protein (CITATION). PIN1 is expressed from very early stages of Arabidopsis embryogenesis and starts to accumulate at the basal ends of vascular precursor cells from the early-globular stage on (CITATION). This polar localization of PIN1 persists in the cells of the vascular strands throughout wild-type embryogenesis (Fig. 4c). In hal mutant embryos, PIN1 protein was expressed in the large apical cell (Fig. 4d). This result is consistent with the expression of PIN1 in derivatives of the apical, but not the basal daughter cell of the zygote in wild-type embryos (Fig. 4c; CITATION). Moreover, PIN1 accumulated at the basal end of the large apical cell in the hal mutant embryo, indicating comparable targeting as in wild-type embryos (Fig.4c,d). Thus, expression and subcellular targeting of PIN1 protein were normal in the absence of microtubules.  To determine their role in microtubule formation, the five genes,POR, HAL, PFI, CHO, andKIS were isolated by map-based cloning. This procedure involved mapping against molecular markers in individual mapping populations to narrow down the relevant genomic intervals, followed by sequencing of PCR-amplified and subcloned genomic fragments from wild-type and mutant alleles (see Materials and Methods). The task was simplified by a candidate gene approach after cloning of thePOR gene. The deduced POR protein shows 42% amino acid sequence identity to human TFC C (Fig. 5a). In addition, the C-terminal 150 amino acids of POR are 30% identical to the N-terminal half of the X-linked Retinitis pigmentosa (XRP2) gene product of human (CITATION). Furthermore, a database search with the POR sequence identified a fission yeast ORF that may encode a TFC C homolog (Table 1). The three por alleles have different mutations in the highly conserved C-terminal one-third of the protein, although their phenotypes are nearly indistinguishable (Fig. 5a; data not shown; see below). The POR protein is predicted to form six α-helices, as indicated in Figure 5a. The S238L mutation of allelepor-UU3025 is predicted to result in the formation of a supernumerary helix 4a, whereas the truncated protein of allelepor-UU1087 lacks helix 6, and the allele por-DEI284 makes a variant protein with an internal deletion that shifts helix 6 toward helix 5.  [[FIGURE]] The deduced amino acid sequence of HAL protein is 60% identical to that of the small G-protein Arl2 that interacts with TFC D in mammalian cells (Fig. 5b; CITATION). The three halalleles sequenced have an internal deletion, a splice-site mutation and a stop-codon mutation, respectively (Fig. 5b). The HAL gene is identical with the TITAN5 gene isolated by CITATION. These authors, however, interpreted the gene product as an ARF-type G-protein involved in vesicle trafficking.  The deduced amino acid sequence of the PFI protein is only 25% identical to that of human TFC E but shares the N-terminal CAP-Gly (formerly called CLIP170) domain involved in tubulin binding and a central region of nine loosely conserved leucine-rich repeat (LRR) motifs (Fig. 5c; CITATION; CITATION). The X-ray-induced allele pfi-ML375 is associated with a 10-Mb inversion that disrupts the ORF, and two other alleles have early stop-codon mutations truncating the protein at amino acid residues 14 and 40, respectively (Fig. 5c).  The CHO gene product displays 30% amino acid sequence identity to human TFC D (Fig. 5e). Because the CHO gene extends over 6 kb of genomic sequence, only three cho alleles were subcloned and sequenced to identify mutations. Two choalleles have stop-codon mutations that truncate the protein at 591 and 705 of 1254 amino acid residues, respectively (Fig. 5e). Thus, with the possible exception of POR, at least one mutant allele of eachPILZ group gene truncates the protein and, thus, most likely eliminates gene function, suggesting that the mutant phenotypes are caused by the absence of functional gene product.  The KIS gene product resembles human TFC A, sharing 44% of the amino acid sequence (Fig. 5d). The strongest conservation is seen in the amino acid segments corresponding to the three α-helical domains originally described for the budding yeast TFC A homolog, Rbl2p (CITATION). The kis mutant phenotype is variable, regardless of the allele (see Fig. 1). Two EMS alleles affect the same splice site, whereas the X-ray-induced allele kis-MM240 deletes the entire gene and 81.8 kb of flanking DNA sequence (see Materials and Methods), indicating that the variable mutant phenotype reflects the complete loss of gene function.  By searching the Arabidopsis database (www.arabidopsis.org), we detected an ORF for a predicted protein that shares 36% of the amino acid sequence and a C-terminal CAP–Gly domain with human TFC B (Fig. 5f). However, no mutation in the Arabidopsis TFC B gene (AtTFCB) with an embryo phenotype comparable withpilz or kis mutants was identified in our screens (see Discussion). In summary, the products of the PILZ group and KIS genes represent five of the six Arabidopsisorthologs of mammalian proteins involved in tubulin folding.  We analyzed the POR gene product in more detail because it was not clear whether any of the por mutant alleles abolished gene function completely. In addition, no close TFC C homolog had been described in yeast, although we identified an ORF for a POR-related predicted protein in fission yeast (Table 1).  To analyze POR gene expression, we raised a rabbit polyclonal antiserum against his-tagged POR recombinant protein (see Materials and Methods). The anti-POR serum detected a 38-kD double band in protein extracts from several plant organs, suggesting ubiquitous expression (data not shown). The same doublet was also observed in extracts fromSchizosaccharomyces pombe that expressed PORfull-length cDNA from a thiamine-repressible promoter, but not in extracts from cells grown on thiamine or transformed with the empty vector (Fig. 6a). The double band was also detected with purified anti-POR serum and may thus be due to post-transcriptional processing. Arabidopsis plants heterozygous for any one of the three por alleles displayed the double band (Fig. 6a). Only after very long exposure of the protein blots did we observe additional very faint bands of 34 and 35 kD in the extracts from heterozygous plants for the two alleles UU1087 and DEI284, respectively, as predicted from the DNA sequence analysis (data not shown; see Fig. 4a). Under-representation of these bands suggests that the truncated proteins may be unstable. Thus, the pormutant phenotype results from severe loss or complete lack of gene function. Cell fractionation experiments indicated that POR protein was cytosolic, accumulating in the supernatant of 100,000gultracentrifugation, as did α-tubulin (Fig. 6b).  [[FIGURE]] Mammalian TFC proteins have been reported to form a large supercomplex (CITATION). We investigated by nondenaturing micro-gel electrophoresis whether POR protein exists in cytosolic higher molecular weight complexes. Supernatants from 100,000gultracentrifugation were subjected to 2%–19% PAGE gradient electrophoresis, and protein blots probed with anti-POR serum. POR protein was not only detected as a monomer of 38 kD, but also in two high molecular weight bands, of which one corresponded to ∼400 kD, whereas the other was >600 kD (Fig. 6c). Thus, POR protein appears to exist in large cytosolic protein complexes.  To determine the subcellular localization of POR, whole-mount preparations of embryos were stained by immunofluorescence with affinity-purified anti-POR serum (see Materials and Methods). The purified antiserum did not stain por mutant embryos (Fig.6d–f). All three mutant alleles gave the same result (data not shown), indicating that the mutant proteins do not stably accumulate, which is consistent with the Western blot analysis described above. In wild-type embryos, a disperse signal was detected in the cytoplasm, which was especially clear in mitotic cells (Fig. 6g,h). Thus, the immunolocalization suggests that POR protein does not associate with microtubular arrays. 
!~MM~! Twelve new pilz and three kiesel mutants were isolated from EMS-mutagenized or X-rayed Landsberg erecta(Ler) seed populations or identified from among embryo-lethal lines of the Versailles collection of T-DNA insertion lines (ecotype Wassilewskija; CITATION), and tested for complementation with pilz group mutant alleles and among each other, as described previously (CITATION).  Mapping populations were established by crossing Lerplants heterozygous for mutant alleles with Columbia (Col) wild-type plants. Ler (mutant)/Col (wild-type) heterozygous F1plants were identified by inspection of ovules and used to generate the F2-mapping populations. por-UU1087 was mapped to the bottom end of chromosome 4 between CAPS markers 60 (TaqI) on BAC T19P19 and DSH1 (MboII) on BAC T5J17 among 2036 gametes,hal-UU2013 to chromosome 2 between CAPS markers 52 (Tsp509I) on BAC T30D6 and 76 (HinfI) on BAC F24H14 among 1892 gametes, kis-UU3809 to chromosome 2 between CAPS markers 52 (VspI) on BAC T9D9 and 85 (RsaI) on BAC T6B20 among 772 gametes, cho-UU1159 to the bottom end of chromosome 3 at SSLP marker FUS6 on BAC T20K12 among 80 gametes, andpfi-UU685 to the bottom of chromosome 1 <1-cM north of CAPS marker PAB5 (MboII) on BAC F14O23 (www.arabidopsis.org) among 638 gametes.  For molecular identification of gene mutations, DNA from Ler(mutant)/Col (wild-type) heterozygous plants was subjected to two or three independent PCR amplifications with gene-specific primers and subcloned into Bluescript pKS+ (Stratagene) or pGEM (Promega). Mutant clones were identified by ecotype-specific polymorphisms and sequenced with an ABI310 sequencer. Sequence alterations of mutant alleles predicted to affect restriction sites were checked for allele-specific polymorphisms in PCR-amplified DNA from wild-type and heterozygous plants. DNA from the X-ray allele, pfi-MM375, was amplified by vectorette PCR (CITATION), using nested genomic primers E7IIa (GTGAGAAGAAGGATTCT GAGATCC) and Es1184 (AGTCTGGGGAGATTGAGCT GCTC), and vectorette primers Vec1 (CGAATCGTAACG GTTCGTACGAGAA) and Vec2 (TCGTACGAGAATCGCT GTCCTCTCC) ligated to VspI restriction sites. The extent of the kis-MM240 deletion was determined by reiterated PCR amplification and sequencing. Following the analysis of Ler/Col polymorphic restriction sites flanking theKIS gene, DNA from the X-ray allele, kis-MM240, was amplified by vectorette PCR, using nested genomic primers KIS-12001F (CTGCAAG CAAGCCGATTAAGAAA) and KIS-12500F (TCTCTCTTT GAATCCCACTTTTTA), and the vectorette primers Vec1 and Vec2 ligated to HpaII restriction sites. Sequence information from the PCR product was used to design primer KIS-96301R (CTCCAAGTAGCAAATGCAAAAGTT). PCR amplification with primers KIS-12500F and KIS-96301R yielded a 1.6-kb product that was sequenced across the breakpoint at position 13,466/95,729 bp on BAC T6B20 (http://mips.gsf.de). This 82.2-kb deletion encompasses 1.2 kb upstream and 80.6 kb downstream of the KIS-coding sequence. cDNA clones were isolated from a flower-specific library (CITATION) or an embryo-enriched library (CITATION).  Sequence analysis, including secondary structure prediction, was performed using the MacVector and Vector NTI programs (Kodak). The BCM Search Launcher (http://dot.imgen.bcm.tmc.edu:9331) was used for sequence alignments of Arabidopsis and human orthologs.  Expression of full-length POR cDNA from His-tag expression vector pQE 30, purification of recombinant protein by Ni-NTA chromatography and acrylamid gel electrophoresis, rabbit immunization and antiserum purification were done as described (CITATION). In Western blot analysis, purified antiserum gave the same signal as unpurified antiserum.  Preparation of plant material, SDS-PAGE, and Western blot analysis were as described (CITATION), except that 15% acrylamide gels were used, and the anti-POR serum was diluted 1:5000.POR cDNA was expressed from the thiamine-repressiblenmt1 promoter of pREP1 vector in S. pombe wild-type strain 513 h−-leu 1/ura 4 after lithium acetate transformation (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Absence of thiamine increases the level of nmt1promoter activity 80 × relative to 0.5 μM thiamine (CITATION). For Western blot analysis, pelleted cells were disrupted with liquid nitrogen, suspended in Laemmli buffer, and boiled at 95°C for 5 min. Equal amounts from transformed cells carrying the empty vector or nmt1∷POR were loaded onto the gel.   Arabidopsis liquid callus culture (CITATION) was filtered through Miracloth (Calbiochem), frozen in liquid nitrogen, and ground with mortar and pestle. After resuspending in homogenization buffer (50 mM potassium phosphate, 50 mM potassium chloride, 10% (v/v) glycerol, 10 mM mercaptoethanol, 1 mM phenylmethyl sulfonyl fluoride, 0.5 mM aluminium fluoride, protease inhibitor cocktail [P 9599, Sigma]), the homogenate was filtered through Miracloth and subsequently centrifuged at 500g (20 min), 10,000g(20 min), 40,000g (30 min), and 100,000g (100 min). An aliquot of the 100,000g supernatant was loaded onto a nondenaturing 2%–19% acrylamide gradient micro gel (CITATION).  Whole-mount preparations of ovules and plastic sections for light microscopy were prepared and analyzed as described (CITATION). Immunofluorescence localization of α-tubulin, KNOLLE, PIN1, and POR (with affinity-purified antiserum diluted 1:50) was done as described (CITATION). The protocol for actin immunolocalization with the mouse anti-actin monoclonal antibody C4 (ICN; diluted 1:500 in 5% BSA–PBS; Cy3-conjugated goat anti-mouse secondary antibody from Dianova, Hamburg, FRG, diluted 1:600) was adapted from CITATION and CITATION to analyze whole-mount preparations of embryos as described (CITATION). Actin staining of seedling roots was done the same way, their treatment with 1 μM latrunculin B (Calbiochem) was as described (CITATION). Nuclei were stained with 1 mg/mL DAPI at 37°C for 20 min., followed by washing with H2O for 30 min. After mounting in Citifluor (Agar, Amersham) containing DABCO (25 mg/mL; Sigma), specimens were analyzed with a Leica confocal laser-scanning microscope (CLSM) with Leica TCS-NT software. The CLSM standard objective was 63× (water immersion), scanning was done with electronic magnification. For EM analysis, ovules were cryofixed by high-pressure freezing (Bal-Tec HPM 010, Balzers), freeze substituted in acetone containing 2% osmium tetroxide, 1% glutaraldehyde, and 0.5% uranyl acetate, and embedded in Spurr's resin. Ultrathin sections were stained with ethanolic uranyl acetate and lead citrate. Digital images were processed with Photoshop 5.5 and Illustrator 9.0 (Adobe).  cDNA sequences and corrected annotations of genomic sequences have been submitted to Genbank under accession numbers AF486848, AF486849,AF486850, AF486851, AF486852, and AF486853. 
