!~ABS~! Plant steroid hormones, brassinosteroids (BRs), are perceived by a cell surface receptor kinase, BRI1, but how BR binding leads to regulation of gene expression in the nucleus is unknown. Here we describe the identification of BZR1 as a nuclear component of the BR signal transduction pathway. A dominant mutation bzr1-1D suppresses BR-deficient and BR-insensitive (bri1) phenotypes and enhances feedback inhibition of BR biosynthesis. BZR1 protein accumulates in the nucleus of elongating cells of dark-grown hypocotyls and is stabilized by BR signaling and the bzr1-1D mutation. Our results demonstrate that BZR1 is a positive regulator of the BR signaling pathway that mediates both downstream BR responses and feedback regulation of BR biosynthesis.
!~RES~! Brassinazole (BRZ) is a triazole compound that specifically blocks brassinolide biosynthesis by inhibiting the cytochrome P450 steroid C-22 hydroxylase encoded by the DWF4 gene CITATION. BRZ causes deetiolation and dwarf phenotypes similar to those of BR-deficient mutants (CITATION; CITATION). Mutants that are insensitive to BRZ and fail to deetiolate on medium containing BRZ may have reduced BRZ uptake, overproduce BRs, be hypersensitive to BRs, or have constitutive BR responses. We screened 200,000 EMS-mutagenized Arabidopsis M2 seeds and isolated a dominant mutant that had a long hypocotyl when grown on BRZ in the dark. We named this mutant b rassina z ole- r esistant 1-1D (bzr1-1D). The phenotypes of bzr1-1D mutant plants are shown in CITATION. Compared with wild-type seedlings, dark-grown bzr1-1D mutant seedlings had normal hypocotyl length when grown on unsupplemented medium, slightly shorter hypocotyls on medium containing BL, and longer hypocotyls on medium containing BRZ CITATION. The bzr1-1D seedlings grown on MS medium or on low concentration of BRZ had curly hypocotyls, similar to wild-type plants grown on BL medium CITATION. These phenotypes suggest that the bzr1-1D mutant either overaccumulates or is hypersensitive to BL. When grown in light, bzr1-1D plants have reduced stature, with slightly darker green and wider leaves, and shorter petioles than wild-type CITATION. The shorter petiole phenotype is more dramatic when plants are grown under short-day photoperiods CITATION. The bzr1-1D mutant seedlings grown under various light conditions had shorter hypocotyls than wild-type plants CITATION. bzr1-1D plants also had delayed flowering and produced more leaves than wild-type under both long- and short-day conditions CITATION. The phenotypes of light-grown bzr1-1D mutants suggest reduced BR action, in contrast to the phenotypes of increased BR action of dark-grown seedlings. Genetic interactions between bzr1-1D and other BR mutants were studied. The bzr1-1D mutant was crossed with the BR biosynthetic mutant det2, and the receptor mutant bri1 (bri1-116 is shown, but similar results were obtained with the weak allele bri1-6; CITATION). In each case, the double mutants had nearly the same dark-grown phenotypes as the bzr1-1D single mutant CITATION, indicating that bzr1-1D is epistatic to both BR-deficient and BR receptor mutants. Phenotypes of light-grown bzr1-1D/bri1 double mutants were intermediate between the single mutants in stature, leaf color CITATION, and fertility (data not shown). bzr1-1D completely suppresses bri1 mutants in the dark and partially suppresses all phenotypes of bri1 in light, providing strong evidence that BZR1 is a major component downstream of BRI1. To determine whether the bzr1-1D mutation affected BR biosynthesis, we measured BR levels in the mutant plants and found that bzr1-1D plants had reduced levels (by 10- to 20-fold compared to wild-type) of the BR intermediates downstream of the step catalyzed by DWF4 (ng/g fresh weight, wild-type/bzr1-1D: 6-deoxo-cathasterone, 0.79/0.73; 6-deoxo-teasterone, 0.23/0.16; 6-deoxo-typhasterol, 1.59/0.11; 6-deoxo-castasterone, 2.31/0.14; castasterone, 0.24/0.01). Some BR biosynthetic genes are feedback suppressed by BR signaling CITATION. An RNA gel blotting experiment showed that bzr1-1D mutant had reduced expression of one of these genes, CPD CITATION. These results suggest that bzr1-1D had increased feedback inhibition of BR biosynthesis, which is consistent with enhanced BR signaling and the smaller stature of light-grown bzr1-1D plants. The bzr1-1D mutation was mapped to the bottom arm of chromosome I. After analyzing 4016 chromosomes, we mapped the bzr1 mutation to a 14.5 kilobase region on the sequenced BAC clone F9E10 CITATION . We sequenced the four annotated open reading frames in this region, and found a single base pair change in one hypothetical gene, which changed the predicted proline at position 234 to leucine. We named this gene BZR1. The BZR1 gene encodes a putative protein of 336 amino acids, with a predicted molecular weight of 36.5 kDa CITATION. Database searches revealed sequence homology between BZR1 and other plant proteins with unknown functions. These include five additional Arabidopsis genes (88%, 53%, 52%, 39%, and 37% amino acid sequence identity), the tomato Lat61 gene previously identified as an anther specific gene (65% identity), and a rice gene (44% sequence identity; CITATION). The first 21 amino acids of BZR1 are hydrophobic, which could potentially mediate interaction with membranes. Immediately following the hydrophobic residues is a putative bipartite nuclear localization signal sequence (NLS). There are 25 serine/threonine residues that match the phosphorylation site sequence of GSK-3 kinase (S/TXXXS/T, where S/T is serine or threonine and X is any amino acid; CITATION), with 20 of them conserved in four of the six homologs CITATION. In addition, a putative PEST sequence was identified from amino acids 232 to 252, a region that encompasses the bzr1-1D mutation CITATION. To confirm that the BZR1 gene is responsible for the bzr1-1D phenotypes, we transformed wild-type and mutant BZR1 genes into Arabidopsis CITATION . Consistent with the dominant nature of the bzr1-1D mutation, transformation of wild-type plants with the mutant bzr1-1D gene (data not shown) or a bzr1-1D::cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) fusion gene (mBZR1-CFP) caused bzr1-1D-like phenotypes CITATION. Expression of the wild-type BZR1-CFP fusion protein using either the BZR1 promoter or the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter did not cause obvious phenotypes in either the wild-type or bzr1-1D background CITATION, but overexpression of BZR1-CFP partially suppressed a weak allele of bri1 CITATION. Overexpression of the mutant bzr1-1D gene increased cell elongation in various organs CITATION and nearly completely rescued the bri1-5 phenotype CITATION. In contrast to the bzr1-1D mutant itself, plants overexpressing the mutant bzr1-1D gene had a long-petiole phenotype similar to transgenic plants overexpressing the BR biosynthetic enzyme DWF4 and the receptor fusion protein BRI1-GFP (CITATION; CITATION). These results demonstrate that BZR1 is a positive regulator of BR responses. The tissue-specific expression and subcellular localization of BZR1 protein were determined using a chimeric BZR1-cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) fusion expressed in transgenic Arabidopsis plants from the endogenous BZR1 promoter (BZR1-CFP). Expression of the fusion protein containing the bzr1-1D mutation (mBZR1-CFP) caused a bzr1-1D-like phenotype CITATION, suggesting that the BZR1-CFP fusion proteins were functional. All transgenic lines showed nuclear fluorescence CITATION , indicating that BZR1 is a nuclear protein. Since BRs are known to regulate cell expansion, we were interested to determine whether BZR1 expression correlated with elongating cells. Dark-grown hypocotyls are particularly good tissues to examine cell expansion, because hypocotyl cells expand rapidly in the absence of cell divisions and the precise growing region during development is well-defined CITATION. For the first 2 days postgermination, the growth of the hypocotyl is due mainly to the expansion of the eight cells at the base. Beginning on days 3 and 4, cells at the top of the hypocotyl start to expand, whereas the basal five cells stop growing CITATION. We used BZR1 native promoter-driven BZR1-CFP transgenic lines to observe the pattern of BZR1-CFP protein accumulation along hypocotyl epidermal cells at different developmental stages CITATION. At 36 hr postgermination, the strongest BZR1-CFP levels were observed in the lower half of the hypocotyls (CITATION, a1-d1). After 48 hr, the most intensive nuclear BZR1-CFP was found in the mid-upper region of the hypocotyls (CITATION, a2-d2). On the third day, BZR1-CFP fluorescence was no longer visible in the basal region and began to fade out in the mid-lower zone of the hypocotyls (CITATION, a3-d3). On day 4, only the cells just below the apical hook had strong nuclear BZR1-CFP signals, whereas cells at the lower half of the hypocotyl had no BZR1-CFP fluorescence (CITATION, a4-d4). Thus, BZR1 protein accumulation correlates with the growing region of the hypocotyl, suggesting a role for BZR1 in cell expansion in dark-grown Arabidopsis seedlings. We also followed the expression pattern of mutant BZR1-CFP (mBZR1-CFP) driven by BZR1's native promoter. In this case, the pattern of mBZR1-CFP expression was uniform along the length of the hypocotyls at different developmental stages (CITATION, a5-d5), and there was increased fluorescence in all the lines examined. To determine whether the bzr1-1D mutation affected the accumulation of the BZR1 protein, we compared the protein levels between BZR1-CFP and mBZR1-CFP transgenic lines. The RNA level of the BZR1-CFP transgene was measured by RT-PCR, and transgenic lines expressing similar levels of BZR1-CFP RNA were selected for analysis by Western blotting CITATION. We found that plants transformed with the mBZR1-CFP construct accumulated about 10-fold higher levels of the CFP fusion protein than those transformed with wild-type BZR1-CFP CITATION, indicating that the bzr1-1D mutation caused increased accumulation of BZR1 protein. We also tested the effect of BL treatments on BZR1-CFP protein accumulation. When seedlings expressing the BZR1-CFP fusion protein were grown in the dark for 5 days and then treated with BL, we observed an increase of the CFP signal in the nucleus CITATION. This increase was detectable 30 min after BL treatment, and the signal level peaked after 1 hr CITATION. The fact that both the bzr1-1D mutation and BL treatment increased BZR1 protein levels indicates that BL-induced accumulation of BZR1 protein is an important event in BR signaling.
!~MM~! A. thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was used as the wild-type. Landsberg erecta was used for genetic mapping of bzr1-1D. The bri1-5, bri1-6, and bri1-116 alleles are in the Ws2, En, and Col-0 ecotypes, respectively CITATION. The plant growth media contains 1/2× MS nutrient agar (GIBCO-BRL), with 1% sucrose and trace elements as stated. Plants grown in light were exposed to 250 μE/m2s light. EMS-mutagenized Col-0 seeds were purchased from Lehle Seeds. Approximately 200,000 M2 seeds from 18 independent parental groups (1250 M1/group) were screened on 0.5× MS medium containing 1% sucrose and 2 μM BRZ CITATION. After growth for 6 days in the dark, seedlings with longer hypocotyls than background were identified, and transferred to soil. The bzr1-1D mutant was backcrossed to wild-type Col-0 for four generations before other experiments were performed. Plants were grown in short days (9 hr light/15 hr dark) for 40 days. Lyophilized materials (from 50 g fresh weight) were extracted twice with 500 ml of MeOH:CHCl3 (4:1), and deuterium-labeled internal standards (1 ng/g fresh weight) were added. Quantitation was performed as described CITATION. BZR1 was identified by map-based cloning using procedures similar to those described CITATION. The bzr1-1D mutant was crossed with the Arabidopsis La-er ecotype, and the F1 plants were self-pollinated. F2 plants were grown on BRZ medium in the dark for 6 days, and seedlings with wild-type phenotypes were selected for analysis using molecular markers CITATION. After scoring 4016 chromosomes, BZR1 was mapped to a 14.5 kilobase region on the sequenced BAC clone F9E10 (GenBank accession number AC013258) on the bottom of chromosome I. The sequences of annotated open reading frames within this region were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from the genomic DNA of the bzr1-1D mutant; the PCR products were sequenced, and the sequences were compared with the GenBank sequence of BAC clone F9E10. Details of the methods used in these studies are available from the authors (zywang@andrew2.stanford.edu or chory@salk.edu). All binary vector constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium strain GV3101 and then transformed into plants using the floral dip method CITATION. Seedlings expressing BZR1-CFP were mounted on glass slides using PBS as a mounting medium. All images were collected on a DeltaVision deconvolution microscope (Applied Precision). Specific filter sets were used for ECFP (426 ± 5 nm excitation, 470 ± 20 nm emission) and DAPI (360 ± 20 nm excitation, 457 ± 25 nm emission). The color of the images was artificially added in Photoshop 6.0 (Adobe Systems). In the BL feeding experiments, after the first cell image was taken, 1 μM of BL was applied to the slide and the same cell was followed for 2 hr. For colocalization of BZR1-CFP and the nucleus, plant material was treated with 50 ng/ml of DAPI for 30 min before imaging.
