!~ABS~! Plant steroid hormones, known as brassinosteroids (BRs), signal through a plasma membrane localized receptor kinase BRI1. We identified bes1, a semidominant suppressor of bri1, which exhibits constitutive BR response phenotypes including long and bending petioles, curly leaves, accelerated senescence, and constitutive expression of BR-response genes. BES1 accumulates in the nucleus in response to BRs. BES1 is phosphorylated and appears to be destabilized by the glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) BIN2, a negative regulator of the BR pathway. These results establish a signaling cascade for BRs with similarities to the Wnt pathway, in which signaling through cell surface receptors leads to inactivation of a GSK-3 allowing accumulation of a nuclear protein that regulates target gene expression.
!~RES~! To identify signaling components downstream of BRI1, we screened for suppressors of bri1-119, a weak allele of bri1 that harbors a missense mutation in the 70 amino acid island domain (G644D; CITATION). bri1-119 plants, like other bri1 mutants, are dark green dwarves with short petioles and round and epinastic leaves CITATION . We mutagenized 40,000 homozygous bri1-119 seeds with ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS). Approximately 200,000 M2 seedlings were screened in white light for mutant plants with suppressed bri1 phenotypes. One suppressor named bes1 (bri1-EMS-suppressor 1) was identified in a single pool and showed complete suppression of the bri1 phenotypes CITATION. When backcrossed to bri1-119, the resulting plants, heterozygous for the bes1 mutation, showed similar but somewhat weaker bes1 phenotypes CITATION. F2 plants segregated bes1-like and bri1 plants in a 3:1 ratio (data not shown), demonstrating that bes1 was caused by a monogenic semidominant mutation, and therefore named bes1-D. bes1-D bri1-119 double mutants had long and bending leaf petioles, curly leaves, and displayed early senescence CITATION. These phenotypes are similar to plants overproducing BRs or BRI1 CITATION, suggesting that bes1-D not only fully suppresses the bri1 mutation, but also leads to a BL hypersensitive phenotype. In the wild-type BRI1 background, bes1-D plants had almost the same phenotype as those of bes1-Dbri1-119 CITATION, demonstrating that a functional BRI1 is not required for the bes1-D phenotype. In the dark, bes1-D also completely suppressed the bri1-119 deetiolation phenotype, having elongated hypocotyls and closed cotyledons CITATION. A BR biosynthesis inhibitor, brassinazole (BRZ), was used to test if bes1-D phenotypes require BRs. BRZ specifically blocks BR biosynthesis at the C-22 hydroxylation step, reducing endogenous BR levels, and causing wild-type plants to resemble BR-deficient dwarfs CITATION. bes1-D bri1-119 was insensitive to the effects of BRZ in both the light and the dark CITATION. The light phenotype of bes1-D is in contrast to other BRZ-resistant genotypes, such as bzr1-D and seedlings overexpressing BRI1 (CITATION; CITATION). In the dark, 1 μM BRZ inhibited elongation of hypocotyls of wild-type (∼55% inhibition), while bri1-119 was hypersensitive to the inhibitor (∼75% inhibition; CITATION). bes1-D bri1-119 double mutants displayed insensitivity to BRZ (hypocotyl lengths with and without BRZ were not significantly different). Together, these results demonstrate that bes1-D is a BR-pathway constitutively active mutant whose phenotypes are independent of both BRs and their receptor, BRI1. To further reveal the molecular mechanisms underlying the bes1-D constitutive BR response phenotypes, we performed expression-profiling experiments using the commercially available Arabidopsis Affymetrix Gene Chip CITATION . Seedlings of wild-type, bes1-D, and bri1-116 (Q583Z) were either mock treated or treated with 1 μM BL for 2.5 hr. Among 8300 genes present on each array, at least 5500 genes gave signals that were above the background in bes1-D, bri1-116, and the wild-type. About 120 genes that were upregulated in both wild-type and bes1-D by BL treatments were chosen for cluster analysis using the GeneSpring program. One cluster of 30 genes was induced by BL in both wild-type and bes1-D but was not significantly changed after BL treatment in bri1 (CITATION, and data not shown). These 30 BL-induced genes were subdivided into two categories according to their expression levels in bes1-D. Group 1 contained 19 BL-induced genes, whose basal expression levels (mock treatment) were upregulated by about 2-fold in bes1-D compared to wild-type and whose induction by BL was largely unaffected. In Group 2, there were 11 BL-induced genes whose basal expression levels in bes1-D were comparable to those of the control but whose induction by BL was about 2-fold greater than wild-type, suggesting that this second group of genes was hyperresponsive to BL treatment in the mutant. Of the 30 BR-induced genes, 7 encode putative cell wall-associated proteins, including xyglucan endotransglycosylases (XETs), endo-1,4-β-glucanases (EGases), polygalacturonase, pectin methylesterase, or expansin CITATION, all of which are implicated in cell elongation or expansion CITATION. Surprisingly, 5 of the BL-induced genes are either known to be early auxin induced or share homology to auxin-induced genes. The increased expression of BL-induced genes in bes1-D or their hyperinduction by BL in the mutants provides molecular evidence for the bes1-D constitutive BL-response phenotypes and suggests that the bes1-D phenotypes result from changes in gene expression. The similar BRZ-resistant phenotypes of bes1-D and bzr1-D seedlings grown in the dark suggested that BES1 may encode a BZR1-like protein CITATION. We sequenced BZR2, a gene whose predicted products share 88% identity with BZR1 from bes1-D and found a single change (C to T) at nucleotide position 698 relative to the translational start site. This mutation causes a change from a proline to a leucine residue at position 233. The same mutation was identified in the BZR1 gene of the bzr1 mutant, strongly suggesting that BES1 is BZR2. The gene is named BES1 hereafter. In addition to BZR1, BES1 also shares significant homology to four other Arabidopsis proteins CITATION. The predicted BES1 protein contains 335 amino acid residues and has no significant homology to any known protein outside of the BZR1 gene family, with the exception of a putative bipartite nuclear localization signal (NLS) in the N terminus of the protein CITATION . The central part of BES1 is rich in serine residues and contains 22 consensus sites (S/TXXXS/T) for phosphorylation by GSK-3 kinases CITATION. In addition, a putative PEST sequence was identified from amino acids 231–250, a region that encompasses the bes1 mutation CITATION. To confirm that the mutation in BES1 caused the mutant phenotypes, both wild-type and mutant BES1 genes were cloned into binary vectors under the control of either the strong constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter or the BES1 promoter, and transformed into Arabidopsis plants. While expression of wild-type BES1 did not cause any visible phenotypes in most of the transgenic lines, expression of the mutant bes1-D gene resulted in long and bending petioles and narrow and curly leaves, recapitulating the bes1-D mutant phenotypes CITATION. Plants that overexpressed mutant bes1 protein displayed even stronger phenotypes than bes1-D (CITATION lower plant, and data not shown). These results confirm that the mutation in the BES1 gene was the cause of the mutant phenotypes. We want to point out that a few 35S::BES1 transgenic lines expressing higher BES1 displayed subtle but noticeable bes1-D phenotypes (data not shown), indicating that increased BES1 protein may, at least partially, cause the mutant phenotype. However, the inability to obtain 35S::BES1 plants with strong bes1-D phenotypes suggests that other factors are involved in BES1 function. To determine the expression pattern of BES1, a BES1 genomic fragment containing a 2 kb promoter, the intron, and two exons was fused in frame with the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene and the resulting construct was used to make transgenic plants. Histochemical analysis of GUS expression in T2 transgenic plants indicated that BES1 is ubiquitously expressed in cotyledons, leaves, hypocotyls, and roots of light-grown plants CITATION, as well as in dark-grown hypocotyls CITATION. Stronger expression was observed in leaf petioles, hypocotyls, and vascular tissues, which is similar to that of BRI1 expression and is consistent with the pronounced effects of the bes1-D mutation on stem elongation. The bes1-D mutant phenotypes and its gain-of-function nature suggest that BES1 acts downstream of BRI1 as a positive component in the BR signaling pathway. To reveal the subcellular localization of BES1 protein, a green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion to the C terminus of full-length BES1 or mutant bes1, was expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter and introduced into wild-type Arabidopsis. The overexpressed mutant bes1::GFP resulted in strong bes1-D-like phenotypes, indicating that the fusion protein was functional. In dark-grown seedlings, BES1::GFP was found in both the nucleus and cytoplasm at low levels in a fraction of cells in most regions of the hypocotyl (CITATION , left panel), although stronger nuclear localization was observed in the top part of hypocotyls in which cell elongation takes place (data not shown). In the cells with lower BES1 levels, treatment with 1 μM BL for 24 hr resulted in a significant increase of BES1 in the nucleus (CITATION, right panel), suggesting that BL induces BES1 nuclear accumulation. To confirm this observation, we followed single cells after addition of BL and found that BL treatment triggered nuclear accumulation of BES1 protein as early as 30 min and such accumulation increased for at least 90 min CITATION. This rapid BES1 nuclear accumulation appeared to be BL specific since auxin, a plant hormone also involved in cell elongation, did not cause BES1 nuclear accumulation CITATION. Transgenic lines with similar phenotypes to the original bes1-D mutant were used to observe mutant bes1::GFP localization. In contrast to wild-type BES1::GFP, mutant bes1::GFP protein was found in the nucleus at high levels (generally more than 10 times greater than wild-type BES1) in most cells, including cells in dark-grown hypocotyls (CITATION, left panel). Mutant bes1::GFP accumulated at high levels in the nucleus of light-grown leaf mesophyll cells, tissues in which wild-type BES1 could not be detected (data not shown). Treatment of hypocotyls with 1 μm BL for 24 hr did not apparently affect the localization or degree of fluorescence of mutant bes1::GFP (CITATION, right panel). To confirm the results from the fluorescence microscope, transgenic seedlings were treated with BL and used to prepare total protein for Western analysis. As shown in CITATION , BES1::GFP protein was present in two different forms in plants, manifested as a fast and a slow migrating band on SDS-PAGE. Treatment of immunoprecipitated protein with calf alkaline phosphatase (CIP) eliminated the slowly migrating band CITATION, strongly suggesting that the fast band is unphosphorylated and the slow band is phosphorylated BES1::GFP. Interestingly, BL treatment resulted in accumulation of unphosphorylated BES1::GFP (about 5-fold; CITATION, lanes 1 and 2), suggesting that BES1 is regulated by a negatively acting kinase. In contrast, mutant bes1::GFP protein accumulated at much higher levels (>10-fold, compared to wild-type BES1) even without BL treatment,although BL still induced accumulation of the unphosphorylated form (CITATION, lanes 3 and 4, and CITATION). Northern blot analysis indicated that the transgenic lines used had comparable mRNA expression levels for BES1::GFP and bes1-D::GFP (data not shown), suggesting that the mutation in bes1-D likely stabilizes the protein in mutant plants. A time course study indicated that BL treatment increased the accumulation of unphosphorylated protein as early as 30 min, and such accumulation continued to increase until 8 hr and started to decrease after 24 hr CITATION. Treatment of BES1::GFP transgenic plants with other plant hormones such as auxin (IAA), abscisic acid (ABA), cytokinin (BAP), and gibberellins (GA3) did not produce such effects, suggesting that the accumulation of unphosphorylated BES1 protein is BL specific CITATION. Similar results were observed with bes1-D::GFP transgenic plants CITATION. To determine if the BL-induced accumulation of unphosphorylated BES1 is dependent on BRI1, a 35S::BES1-GFP transgenic line was crossed to bri1-101 (E1078K) and F2 plants with bri1 dwarf phenotypes and harboring the transgene were used in a Western blot analysis. As shown in CITATION, the accumulation of unphosphorylated BES1 is greatly reduced in the bri1 background. This result provides direct evidence that BES1 acts downstream of BRI1. bin2 was identified as a BR-insensitive dwarf mutant and the dominance of the mutation suggests that BIN2 encodes a negative regulator in the BR pathway CITATION. Recent identification of BIN2 as a GSK-3 makes it a good candidate for a kinase that negatively regulates BES1 CITATION. To test the genetic relationship between BES1 and BIN2, we crossed homozygous bes1-D to bin2-D and found that the F1 progeny (bes1-D/BES1; bin2-D/BIN2) displayed bes1-D phenotypes CITATION , indicating that bes1-D is epistatic to bin2-D. To test whether BIN2 and BES1 interacted directly, we examined their possible in vitro interactions in the yeast two-hybrid system and by a GST pull-down assay CITATION. Strong reporter gene activation was detected when BIN2 and BES1 were coexpressed in yeast in two-hybrid vectors, demonstrating a specific interaction between BIN2 and BES1 proteins CITATION. To confirm this interaction, both wild-type and mutant BES1 proteins were labeled with 35S-labeled methionine using an in vitro transcription/translation system and were used in pull-down assays with BRI1 and BIN2. Neither GST nor GST-BRI1 kinase interacted with BES1 or mutant bes1; however, a BIN2-GST fusion pulled down significant amounts of BES1 or bes1 CITATION. These results indicate that BIN2 interacts in vitro with both wild-type and mutant BES1 proteins. To test if BIN2 phosphorylates BES1 or mutant bes1 in vitro, the proteins were expressed in E. coli, purified with GST or MBP tags, respectively, and used in an in vitro phosphorylation assay. BIN2 efficiently phosphorylated BES1 or mutant bes1 to a greater extent than BIN2 autophosphorylation, consistent with 22 putative BIN2 sites in BES1 (CITATION, lanes 1–3). Moreover, the phosphorylation of BES1 and bes1 by BIN2 was specific since the BRI1 kinase did not phosphorylate these proteins (CITATION, lanes 4–6). To confirm that BIN2 phosphorylated BES1 in vivo, we crossed a BES1::GFP transgenic line to bin2-D and assayed BL-induced BES1 dephosphorylation CITATION. While the accumulation of unphosphorylated BES1 was clearly induced by BL in wild-type plants CITATION, such accumulation of BES1 was greatly reduced in the bin2-D/BIN2 background. In addition, the total amount of BES1 protein was reduced in the bin2-D/BIN2 background. This result, combined with other genetic and biochemical evidence, strongly supports that BIN2 phosphorylates BES1 in vivo, thereby keeping its levels low in the absence of hormone.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotypes Enkheim-2 (En2) or Columbia (Col) were the wild-type. Seeds were germinated either on 1⧸2 MS medium (Gibco BRL) plus 1% sucrose or directly in soil. Plants were grown under fluorescent light (16 hr light/8 hr dark cycles). Three grams of bri1-119 seeds (En2 background) were sterilized, hydrated, and treated with 0.2% EMS (Sigma) for 14 hr. After extensive washes with water, the seeds were vernalized at 4°C for 4 days and sown in soil. About 40,000 M1 plants were self pollinated and M2 seeds were collected in 38 pools (∼1000 M1/pool). About 5000 M2 seeds (100 mg) from each pool were germinated in 1⧸2 MS medium and grown in the light for 4 weeks. The plants that showed suppression of bri1 dwarf phenotypes were transferred to soil. The candidate suppressors were genotyped with a bri1-119 CAPS marker. The confirmed suppressors were crossed to either bri1-119 to determine the dominant or recessive nature of the mutation or to wild-type En2 to obtain the mutant in a wild-type BRI1 background. Ten-day-old seedlings of wild-type (Col), bes1-D (a recapitulation transgenic line showing similar phenotypes to the bes1-D mutant, see below), and bri1-116 grown on 1⧸2 MS were treated or mock treated with 1 μM BL for 2.5 hr and used to prepare RNA using the Plant RNeasy Kit (QIAGEN). Probe preparation, hybridization to Affymetrix Arabidopsis genomic arrays, washing, staining, and scanning were carried out according to the manufacturer's suggestions (Affymetrix, Inc). The data were analyzed with GeneSpring Program (Silicon Genetics). BES1 cDNA was amplified by RT-PCR using first strand cDNA generated from wild-type Col RNA using Pfu DNA polymerase (Stratagene). Mutant bes1 cDNA was obtained by PCR with primers containing the point mutation. BES1 and bes1 cDNAs were cloned into the binary vector CHF3-GFP, a derivative of pPZP212 CITATION that contains a CaMV 35S promoter, a GFP coding region CITATION, and the rbcS terminator (C. Fankhauser, Y.Y., and J.C., unpublished data). A BES1 genomic fragment containing 2 kb of promoter, two exons, and the intron were amplified from BAC F18O14 DNA (ABRC, Ohio) by PCR and cloned into pPZP211 together with a GFP-rbcS terminator fragment from CHF3-GFP. The BES1 genomic fragment was also cloned into a β-glucuronidase (GUS) binary vector pBI 1.1.3 (Clontech). All the clones were confirmed by DNA sequencing. The resulting constructs 35S::BES1-GFP, 35S::bes1-GFP, BES1::BES1-GFP, BES1::bes1-GFP, and BES1::BES1-GUS were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens, strain GV3101. Transgenic plants were generated by the floral dip method CITATION and selected on 1⧸2 MS medium plus 50 mg/l kanamycin. BES1::BES1-GUS transgenic plants (T2 generation) were used to reveal BES1 gene expression by GUS staining CITATION. 35S::BES1-GFP and 35S::bes1-GFP transgenic plants (T2 or T3 generations) were used to determine BES1 localization using a DeltaVision deconvolution fluorescence microscope (CCMI lab, the Salk Institute). GFP-fusion transgenic plants were also used for Western blot analysis with anti-GFP antibodies (1/2000 dilution, Molecular Probes). BIN2 and BRI1 kinase domains CITATION were cloned into pGEX-5X-1 and GST-fusion proteins were prepared according to manufacturer's suggestion (Amersham Pharmacia). BES1 and mutant bes1 were cloned into an MBP-fusion vector and MBP-BES1 fusion proteins were prepared using MBP beads (New England Biolabs). For yeast two-hybrid assays, BIN2 and BES1 were cloned into GAL4 bait and prey vectors, respectively (Clontech). The constructs were introduced into yeast and reporter gene activation was assayed according to the manufacturer's manual (Clontech). For GST pull-down assays, BES1 or bes1 proteins were labeled with 35S-labeled methionine with TNT T7 coupled reticulocyte lysate system (Promega). Glutathione beads containing 2 μg each of GST, GST-BIN2, or GST-BRI1 kinase were incubated with 20 μl of BES1 or bes1 TNT reactions in pull-down buffer (50 mM Tris [pH 7.5], 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% NP-40, and 1 mM DTT) plus 1 mg/ml BSA. The mixture was rotated in a cold room for 2 hr and the beads were washed 5 times with pull-down buffer. The proteins were stripped off the beads by boiling with 12 μl 2×SDS buffer and loaded onto a PAGE gel. The gel was fixed, dried, and exposed to X-ray film. For in vitro kinase assays, MBP, MBP-BES1, and MBP-bes1 (20 ng each) were incubated with GST-BIN2 or GST-BRI1 kinase (200 ng each) in 20 μl of kinase buffer (20 mM Tris [pH 7.5], 100 mM NaCl, and 12 mM MgCl2) and 10 μCi 32P-γATP. After incubation at 37°C for 40 min, the reactions were stopped by adding 20 μl of 2×SDS buffer and boiling at 94°C for 5 min. Proteins were resolved by a PAGE gel and phosphorylation was detected by exposing the dried gel to X-ray film. Proteins from 35S::bes1-GFP transgenic plants were used for phosphatase (CIP) treatments as described CITATION.
