!~ABS~! Plants sense and respond to red and far‐red light using the phytochrome (phy) family of photoreceptors. However, the mechanism of light signal transduction is not well defined. Here, we report the identification of a new mutant Arabidopsis locus, srl2 (short under red‐light 2), which confers selective hypersensitivity to continuous red, but not far‐red, light. This hypersensitivity is eliminated in srl2phyB, but not srl2phyA, double mutants, indicating that this locus functions selectively and negatively in phyB signaling. The SRL2 gene encodes a bHLH factor, designated PIF4 (phytochrome‐interacting factor 4), which binds selectively to the biologically active Pfr form of phyB, but has little affinity for phyA. Despite its hypersensitive morphological phenotype, the srl2 mutant displays no perturbation of light‐induced expression of marker genes for chloroplast development. These data suggest that PIF4 may function specifically in a branch of the phyB signaling network that regulates a subset of genes involved in cell expansion. Consistent with this proposal, PIF4 localizes to the nucleus and can bind to a G‐box DNA sequence motif found in various light‐regulated promoters.
!~RES~! We previously performed genetic screens under continuous red light (Rc) to isolate mutants specific to this wavelength (Huq et al., 2000a,b). One previously uncharacterized hypersensitive mutant isolated in this screen is srl2. This mutant, isolated from a T‐DNA‐mutagenized population, maps to the bottom of chromosome 2, >25 cM south of srl1, another Rc‐specific hypersensitive mutant we reported previously (Huq et al., 2000a). srl2 is a monogenic, semi‐dominant mutation, which co‐segregates with the kanamycin resistance marker in the T‐DNA insert in a 3:1 resistant‐to‐sensitive ratio. We amplified flanking sequences of the srl2 locus using the T‐DNA tag. Sequence analysis of these fragments showed that the T‐DNA is inserted within the third intron of the SRL2 gene (FIG-REF). We have also isolated and sequenced a partial cDNA clone. This clone was truncated at the 5′‐end, based on the fact that an expressed sequence tag (EST) clone (36H2T7) was longer in the 5′‐end, and the transcript size is ∼1.7 kb on a northern blot (FIG-REF). Sequencing of the EST clone showed that the EST sequence has a mutation (C to T) introducing a stop codon at amino acid 281. The EST and the partial cDNA clones were spliced together to obtain a 1687 bp full‐length cDNA. This full‐length cDNA sequence has two in‐frame stop codons in the 5′‐untranslated region, and a 1290 bp open reading frame (ORF) encoding a predicted 430 amino acid protein designated PIF4 (see below). The PIF4 protein corresponds to the AAD22130 ORF on chromosome 2, which has been misannotated in the database as a 423 amino acid unknown protein. [[FIGURE]] A database search revealed that PIF4 contains a region with strong homology to the bHLH superfamily of transcription factors (Littlewood and Evan, 1998; Atchley et al., 1999). Sequence comparison of the bHLH domain from both animal and other plant species showed that the residues that define the HLH domain (Atchley et al., 1999) are extensively conserved in the PIF4 sequence (FIG-REF). Moreover, PIF4 has some sequence similarity to PIF3 (Ni et al., 1998) outside the bHLH domain (FIG-REF; data not shown). PIF4 has a classical bipartite nuclear localization signal (NLS) (Dehesh et al., 1995; Jans and Hübner, 1996) (FIG-REF) as well as another putative monopartite NLS (RKRK; amino acids 224–227). PIF4 does not contain the canonical PAS (Per‐Arnt‐Sim‐like domain) domain (Kay, 1997; Dunlap, 1998). However, it has a region similar to the putative PAS‐like domain of PIF3 located close to the bHLH region (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). We have investigated the expression of PIF4 mRNA from wild type and srl2 mutant under different light conditions using northern blot analysis. The results show that srl2 expresses a truncated version of the PIF4 mRNA compared with wild type (WS) (FIG-REF), suggesting that this insertional disruption is likely to be responsible for the srl2 phenotype. The truncated PIF4 mRNA has the potential to express a C‐terminally deleted 242 amino acid PIF4 protein lacking the bHLH domain (FIG-REF). Thus, if synthesized, this truncated protein would not be expected to bind to any DNA target site, and might therefore either be inactive or have the potential to act in a dominant‐negative fashion. PIF4 gene expression also appears to be induced ∼5‐ to 6‐fold by both Rc and FRc light, and ∼1.5 fold by pulses of R and FR light (FIG-REF). The absence or very low abundance of PIF4 mRNA in the dark and subsequent induction by light indicate that this induction might be involved in PIF4 function. However, because both R and FR induce expression to about the same extent, this induction appears unlikely to be responsible for the Rc‐specific activity of the SRL2 gene. Since srl2 was isolated as a short hypocotyl mutant under Rc, we investigated the specificity of this response under a range of Rc and FRc‐light fluence rates. FIG-REF shows that srl2 is hypersensitive over a broad range of Rc fluence rates compared with the wild type, whereas it is similar to the wild type under all fluence rates of FRc light. Since we had only a single allele of srl2, we also performed reverse‐genetic experiments to test for functional involvement of PIF4 in phy signaling. FIG-REF and FIG-REF shows that transgenic antisense PIF4 lines display a short hypocotyl phenotype under Rc similar to that of srl2 (only two out of >10 lines are shown). In contrast, PIF4 sense‐overexpressing lines show longer hypocotyls under Rc (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). In addition, the hypocotyl lengths of both sense and antisense transgenic lines are similar to the wild type under FRc (FIG-REF and FIG-REF), as in the case of the srl2 mutant (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). The hypocotyl lengths of srl2 and PIF4 transgenic lines are also similar to their respective wild types in the dark (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Thus, both genetic and reverse‐genetic data are mutually consistent, and indicate that PIF4 acts negatively in Rc signaling. [[FIGURE]] We have also measured the cotyledon area of the srl2 mutant and compared this to that of the wild type (WS). FIG-REF shows that srl2 has more expanded cotyledons than the wild type (WS), similar to a phyB overexpresser line (ABO) (Wagner et al., 1991), and in contrast to the phyB mutant compared with its wild type (No‐O). Western blot analysis of phyB protein level using monoclonal antibodies against phyB (Hirschfeld et al., 1998) showed no significant difference between srl2 and the wild type (WS) (FIG-REF), suggesting that the srl2 phenotype is not due to overexpression of the phyB photoreceptor. These results confirm that srl2 is an Rc‐specific hypersensitive mutant potentially specific to the phyB pathway. Since srl2 showed a hypersensitive phenotype only under Rc, we constructed srl2phyA and srl2phyB double mutants to investigate whether phyA and phyB are required for the phenotype of srl2. As shown in FIG-REF, the srl2phyA double mutant is still hypersensitive to a range of Rc compared with its phyA sibling, suggesting either that phyA is not required or plays a minor role in the hypersensitive phenotype of the srl2 mutant. Although it appears that srl2phyA has a somewhat reduced hypersensitive response compared with srl2, this effect is paralleled by the slightly reduced sensitivity of the phyA single mutant compared with the WS wild type. It is possible that this difference is due to ecotypic differences, since the srl2phyA double mutant and its phyA sibling are in a WS–RLD hybrid background. [[FIGURE]] In contrast, the hypocotyl lengths of the srl2phyB double mutant are very similar to those of the phyB sibling, suggesting that phyB plays the major role in conferring the hypersensitive phenotype of the srl2 mutant in Rc (FIG-REF). In addition, the cotyledon phenotype of the srl2phyB double mutant is indistinguishable from that of the phyB siblings (FIG-REF). These results also suggest that the other phytochromes (phyC, D and E) play a minor, if any, role in mediating the hypersensitive phenotype of the srl2 mutant. To investigate the molecular phenotype of srl2 and PIF4 transgenic lines, we performed northern blot analyses on several selected marker genes involved in chloroplast development and circadian rhythms, including CAB, RBCS, CCA1 and LHY (Tepperman et al., 2001). How ever, the results did not show any significant difference between wild type and srl2 or PIF4 transgenic lines in response to light (data not shown). This is consistent with the chlorophyll content of the srl2 and PIF4 transgenic lines, which are also similar to that of the wild type (data not shown). Since srl2 and PIF4 transgenic lines have light‐dependent, visible morphological phenotypes (FIG-REF and FIG-REF), it is possible that PIF4 selectively controls other genes, such as those that are involved in cell expansion processes. Because PIF4 is related to the phytochrome‐interacting factor PIF3 (Ni et al., 1998), we investigated whether PIF4 also interacts with phys using in vitro co‐immunoprecipitation assays (Fairchild et al., 2000). As shown in FIG-REF and FIG-REF, PIF4 interacts preferentially with the Pfr form of phyB and only very weakly with phyA. This is similar to PIF3, which interacts strongly with the Pfr form of phyB and comparatively weakly with phyA (FIG-REF and FIG-REF; Zhu et al., 2000). We have also investigated this interaction using the missense mutant versions of phyA and phyB (FIG-REF) that have been shown to have reduced capacity for signal transfer in vivo without affecting light perception ability (Quail et al., 1995). Both mutant versions of phyB have reduced affinity for PIF4, as observed for PIF3 (FIG-REF and FIG-REF; Ni et al., 1999), suggesting that this in vitro interaction might be biologically significant. We have also investigated interactions with phyC, D and E, and found no significant interaction with PIF4 (data not shown). Therefore, we conclude that PIF4 interacts selectively with the biologically active Pfr form of phyB. [[FIGURE]] We have also compared the apparent binding affinities of PIF4 and PIF3 for phyA and phyB by using increasing amounts of phyA and phyB as prey with a constant amount of PIF4:GAD and GAD:PIF3 as baits. PIF4 has about half the apparent affinity for phyB compared with PIF3 (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). However, the ratios of binding between phyB and phyA are similar for both PIF3 and PIF4 (FIG-REF), respectively. The data also show that PIF4 interaction with phyB was saturated with the highest amount of phyB input (14 fmol), while PIF3 interaction was still increasing (FIG-REF and FIG-REF), indicating that PIF3 has a higher interaction capacity for phyB than PIF4. Both proteins interacted with phyA very weakly under the present experimental conditions, although PIF3 showed slightly higher affinity (FIG-REF and FIG-REF) as reported previously (Zhu et al., 2000). As PIF4 is a member of the well‐characterized bHLH family of DNA binding proteins, we investigated whether PIF4 can bind to the G‐box DNA motif found in many light‐regulated promoters using gel‐shift assays (Terzaghi and Cashmore, 1995; Chattopadhyay et al., 1998; Ishige et al., 1999; Martinez‐Garcia et al., 2000). The data show that PIF4 can indeed bind to this motif under these conditions (FIG-REF). This binding can be competed by the addition of excess amounts of the cold G‐wt probe, but not with a single base (T to G) mutated version of the G‐mut probe (Martinez‐Garcia et al., 2000; FIG-REF). Thus, PIF4 can bind to the G‐box motif presumably as a homodimer, which is characteristic of this family of proteins (Littlewood and Evan, 1998). [[FIGURE]] We have previously shown that G‐box‐bound PIF3 can interact with the Pfr form of phyB (Martinez‐Garcia et al., 2000). Since PIF4 can bind to the G‐box as well as the Pfr form of phyB separately, we investigated whether the G‐box‐bound PIF4 can interact with the Pfr form of phyB. In contrast to PIF3, G‐box‐bound PIF4 does not bind detectably to the Pfr form of phyB even with a 4‐fold higher amount of phyB than that used for PIF3 binding (FIG-REF). Under the same conditions, G‐box‐bound PIF3 can interact with the 4‐fold lower amount of phyB and can form a supershifted complex (FIG-REF), as reported previously (Martinez‐Garcia et al., 2000). Thus, PIF4 cannot bind to both the G‐box and phyB simultaneously under these experimental conditions. Since PIF4 has a putative NLS (FIG-REF), we investigated the subcellular localization of a GUS–PIF4 fusion protein in a transient transfection assay using onion epidermal cells (Huq et al., 2000b). As shown in FIG-REF, the GUS–PIF4 fusion protein is localized to the nucleus as compared with the GUS‐only control, which is distributed throughout the cell. This result shows that PIF4 is a nuclear protein. We did not test whether this nuclear localization is affected by light in our transient assay. However, in previous investigations, both PIF3 and HFR1 were found to be constitutively nuclear, independent of light treatment (Ni et al., 1998; Fairchild et al., 2000). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds were surface sterilized and plated on growth medium (GM) without sucrose as described by Huq et al. (2000a). The red and far‐red light sources were described by Wagner et al. (1991). Fluence rates of various lights were measured by a spectroradiometer (model LI‐1800; LiCor, NE). The T‐DNA‐tagged seed pools were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Stock no. CS5600). These lines were generated in the WS ecotype at INRA using a promoter‐trap construct (Bouchez et al., 1993). The screening was described by Huq et al. (2000b). Hypocotyl length measurements, mapping of the srl2 locus and western blot analysis of phyB protein level using B1–B7 monoclonal antibodies (Hirschfeld et al., 1998) were as described by Huq et al. (2000a). The flanking sequence at the srl2 locus was cloned using the genome walker kit from Clontech. An EST clone (36H2T7) corresponding to the flanking sequence was obtained from the ABRC stock center. A partial PIF4 cDNA was also isolated and sequenced. The ORF from the PIF4 cDNA was amplified using PFU Turbo polymerase (Stratagene) with forward and reverse primers that included restriction sites for cloning. The resulting fragments were cloned into the pKF111 vector (Ni et al., 1998) in both orientations and sequenced. The resulting constructs were introduced into GV3101 (MP90) Agrobacterium and used for transformation of wild‐type Col by the floral dip method (Clough and Bent, 1998). Transgenic seeds were plated on GM‐Suc plates containing 5 μg/ml glufosinate‐ammonium (Riededel‐de Haen, Germany), and the resistant seedlings were transplanted to soil and grown in the greenhouse. Since srl2 co‐segregates with the kanamycin resistance marker, kanamycin selection was used to isolate homozygous srl2 mutants. For the srl2phyA double mutant, homozygous srl2 was crossed to phyA101 (hy8‐1, RLD ecotype) (Dehesh et al., 1993) mutant. The resulting F1 seedlings were selfed, and homozygous phyA101 mutant‐like seedlings were selected from the F2 population under FRc (15 μmol/m/s). These seedlings were selfed and the F3 seeds were plated on GM media containing kanamycin (100 μg/ml). Homozygous kanamycin‐resistant and ‐sensitive lines were chosen as srl2phyA double mutant and phyA sibling, respectively. Construction of srl2phyB and phyB siblings is almost the same as described for srl2phyA and phyA siblings, except that selection of the F2 population was performed under Rc (20 μmol/m/s). phyB‐1 (Reed et al., 1993) introgressed into No‐O background was used as the phyB mutant for constructing the srl2phyB double mutant. All the double mutants and single mutant siblings were confirmed by PCR markers. Total RNA was isolated from seedlings of different backgrounds as described by Huq et al. (2000a). Full‐length PIF4 ORF was used as a probe to detect message levels in the srl2 mutant background and the overexpression lines. A 250 bp fragment from the 3′‐UTR was amplified by PCR and used as a probe to detect the PIF4 mRNA in the antisense lines. Full‐length PIF3 cDNA was used to detect the level of PIF3 mRNA in the PIF4 transgenic lines. In vitro co‐immunoprecipitation experiments were performed as described by Fairchild et al. (2000). All proteins were expressed from T7 promoters in the TnT in vitro transcription/translation system (Promega) in the presence of [35S]methionine. The construct and procedure for expressing full‐length holophytochrome A were described by Fairchild et al. (2000), and holophytochrome B and GAD:PIF3 by Ni et al. (1999). The PIF4:GAD vector was constructed by PCR amplification of GAD and PIF4 separately, followed by three fragment ligation into a pET17b vector (Invitrogen), and confirmed by sequencing. The binding buffer used contained 1× PBS pH 7.2, 0.1% (v/v) Tergitol NP‐40 (Sigma), 0.1% BSA and 1× Complete protease inhibitor (Roche). The same buffer was used for the first wash of the pellet, and the final wash was performed with the same buffer without BSA. EMSAs were performed according to Martinez‐Garcia et al. (2000). All the proteins were synthesized using the TnT system (Promega). Full‐length PIF3 was described by Martinez‐Garcia et al. (2000). The PIF4 ORF was cloned into pET17b to produce naked PIF4 protein. GAD:PIF4 was as described above. pLUC control plasmid was translated in TnT and used as TnT control. A total of 30 000 c.p.m. of labeled probe were used in each lane. For subcellular localization, an XhoI fragment from the original PIF4 cDNA clone was fused to the C‐terminus of GUS in the vector TEX3 digested with SalI (Hoecker et al., 1999). This PIF4 fragment contains amino acids 59–430 of the PIF4 protein. The resulting GUS–PIF4 fusion construct was transiently transfected into onion epidermal cells and stained for GUS activity according to Ni et al. (1998). The PIF4 cDNA sequence has been submitted to the DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank database. The accession No. is AJ440755.
