!~ABS~!  Arabidopsis COP1 acts to repress photomorphogenesis in the absence of light. It was shown that in the dark, COP1 directly interacts with the bZIP transcription factor HY5, a positive regulator of photomorphogenesis, and promotes its proteasome-mediated degradation. Here we identify a novel bZIP protein HYH, as a new target of COP1. We identify a physical and genetic interaction between HYH and COP1 and show that this interaction results in dark-specific degradation of HYH. Genetic analysis indicates that HYH is predominantly involved in blue-light regulation of development and gene expression, and that the function of HYH in part overlaps with that of HY5. The accumulation of HYH protein, not the mRNA, is dependent on the presence of HY5. Our data suggest that HYH and HY5 can, respectively, act as heterodimers and homodimers, thus mediating light-regulated expression of overlapping as well as distinct target genes. We propose that COP1 mediates light control of gene expression through targeted degradation of multiple photomorphogenesis-promoting transcription factors in the nucleus. 
!~RES~! In an effort to obtain additional support for a role of the COP/DET/FUS proteins in protein degradation and to identify novel COP/DET/FUS-regulated protein targets, full-length COP1 protein was used as bait in a yeast two-hybrid screen. Out of ∼170,000 transformants, 2 independent cDNAs encoding a novel protein were recovered. The longest cDNA was 592 nucleotides (accession no.AF453477) and was identical to portions of the predicted geneAt3g17610 (CITATION; see Materials and Methods). The cDNA encodes a 149-amino-acid protein with a predicted molecular mass of 16.9 kD, containing a basic zipper (bZIP) transcription factor domain in the C-terminal half. The bZIP protein, denoted HYH for HY5 homolog, is the closest homolog of HY5 in theArabidopsis genome. Figure 1A shows an alignment between HYH and HY5. HYH shows 49% (73/149) overall amino acid identity with HY5. The highest level of identity is found in the DNA-binding basic domain, where 21 of the 24 amino acids are identical. Although the N-terminal half of the proteins are less conserved, a sequence motif previously identified in HY5 as a COP1-interacting motif and a caseine kinase 2 (CK2) phosphorylation site (CITATION; CITATION) are conserved in HYH (Fig.1A).  [[FIGURE]] To quantify and further characterize the interaction between HYH and COP1, we assayed the interactions between wild-type and mutated COP1 and HYH proteins in liquid β-galactosidase (β-gal) assays (Fig.1C). The interaction between HYH and COP1 results in 25-fold higher β-gal activity than that observed for the vector control. None of three genetically identified mutations of COP1 was able to interact with HYH. COP1-4 lacks the WD40 domain, whereas COP1-8 and COP1-9 contain a deletion and an amino acid substitution in the WD40 domain, respectively (Fig. 1B), suggesting that the COP1 WD40 domain is required for HYH interaction. To determine if the putative COP1-interacting motif in HYH is required for the COP1 interaction, we introduced alanine substitutions of the conserved VP pair at the core of the motif in HYH. The VP to AA substitution completely abolishes HYH's interaction with COP1, indicating that the motif is, indeed, required for the HYH–COP1 interaction (Fig. 1C).  To further characterize the interaction between HYH and the WD40 domain of COP1, we used a set of amino-acid-substituted COP1 proteins previously described (Fig. 1B; CITATION). These single amino acid substitutions were selected because they are likely to interfere with protein–protein interactions of the COP1 WD40 domain. They are unlikely, in contrast to the COP1-9 mutation, to affect the overall structure of the domain. Figure 1C shows that one of the five substitutions, E592R, has no effect on the HYH interaction. On the other hand, the K422E, R465E, W467A, and K550E substitutions dramatically reduce interaction with HYH. The mutated COP1 and HYH proteins were examined in immunoblots, and their expression was found to be at similar levels as the respective wild-type proteins (Fig.1D,E). In all, we have identified a novel COP1-interacting bZIP protein that interacts with the WD40 domain of COP1 through a COP1-interacting motif.  To examine the intracellular localization of HYH, we expressed a green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion of HYH in onion epidermal cells. As shown in Figure 2A, the GFP–HYH protein displays a diffused and uniform nuclear fluorescence, suggesting that HYH is a nuclear protein. It has previously been shown that COP1 protein expressed from a transgene localizes to distinct foci or speckles in the nuclei of onion epidermal cells as well as inArabidopsis hypocotyl cells (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Furthermore, the HY5 protein has been found to colocalize with COP1 in these nuclear speckles (CITATION). Recently, the COP1-dependent localization of HY5 to nuclear speckles was further analyzed through fluorescent resonance energy transfer (FRET) techniques, suggesting a physical interaction between HY5 and COP1 in the speckles (CITATION). To examine if HYH also colocalizes with COP1 in the nuclear speckles, we expressed GFP–HYH together with BFP–COP1 in onion cells. Figure 2F shows a representative nucleus expressing both proteins excited by UV light in which green speckles are clearly visible. These green speckles represent foci where BFP–COP1 and GFP–HYH are in close proximity, allowing FRET from BFP–COP1 to GFP–HYH to occur. The speckled GFP–HYH fluorescence requires the presence of BFP–COP1 because it was never observed with GFP–HYH alone (Fig. 2A–D). The emission from BFP–COP1 alone is very weak and difficult to detect (Fig. 2E). This result provides an in vivo support for a physical interaction between COP1 and HYH.  [[FIGURE]] So far the only known target of COP1-mediated protein degradation is the HY5 transcription factor. Because HYH, like HY5, interacts with the WD40 domain of COP1, we set out to examine whether HYH might be a target of COP1-mediated protein degradation in darkness. To this end we grew wild-type seedlings and seedlings overexpressing HYH (HYH-OE) in white light for 3 d and then transferred them to darkness for 24, 48, and 72 h. Protein extracts were prepared 3 days after germination (DAG) and after indicated time in darkness. The protein concentration was normalized, and the levels of HYH protein were assayed by Western blot using HYH-specific polyclonal antibodies.  As seen in Figure 3A, the endogenous HYH protein is detected in 3-DAG seedlings. The polyclonal HYH antisera consistently detect two protein bands of ∼27 kD and 21 kD, respectively. Both bands are lost in the hyh mutant (Fig.4), suggesting that they are encoded by theHYH gene. However, the relative level of the 21-kD protein differed between experiments, suggesting that this protein could be a degradation product. The apparent molecular mass of HYH is higher than the predicted 16.9 kD. We do not know the reason for the higher apparent molecular weight, but it is worth noting that the related HY5 protein, predicted to be ∼18 kD, migrated as a 30-kD band in SDS-PAGE.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, when the 3-DAG light-grown seedlings were transferred to darkness for 24 h, the level of HYH protein was reduced to below the detection level. This indicates a dark-specific reduction of HYH protein levels. When the HYH protein was overexpressed from the constitutive 35Spromoter, the level was also dramatically reduced upon transfer to darkness. This suggests that the reduction is regulated at a posttranscriptional level (Fig. 3A).  To examine the role of the COP/DET/FUS proteins in the dark-dependent reduction of HYH protein, we grew wild-type andcop9, det1, cop10 as well ascop1-1, cop1-4, and cop1-6 seedlings in white light for 4 d and then transferred them to darkness for 20 h. Protein extracts were prepared at day 4 and after the additional 20 h in the dark. The protein concentration was normalized, and HYH abundance was examined by Western blot. We found that although the level of HYH protein rapidly decreases in wild-type Col-0 and WS seedlings upon transfer to the dark, this decrease is abolished in all of the tested cop/det/fus mutants (Fig. 3B). This finding suggests that the activities of each of the COP/DET/FUS proteins are required for the reduction of HYH protein levels.  These results are consistent with the hypothesis that HYH, like HY5, is specifically degraded in the dark. To further test this hypothesis, we examined whether the direct protein–protein interaction between COP1 and HYH is involved in the dark-dependent degradation of HYH. To this end, we used cop1-5 null mutant seedlings that overexpress wild type, K422E-, R465E-, W467A-, K550E-, or E592R-substituted COP1 proteins. The K422E, R465E, W467A, K550E, and E592R transgenic lines have been previously described, and overexpression of either of these COP1 proteins is able to rescue the lethality of the cop1-5mutation (CITATION). Seedlings were grown in constant white light for 4 d and then transferred to darkness. Protein extracts were prepared at 4 DAG and after 20 h in the dark. After normalization of protein concentration, HYH protein levels were detected by immunoblot. As shown in Figure 3C, the HYH protein is present at high levels in all 4-DAG seedlings. However, among the seedlings that have been grown in darkness for an additional 20 h, only the seedlings expressing wild type and the COP1-E592R protein were able to degrade the HYH protein. This corresponds well with the yeast two-hybrid results (Fig. 1C), where HYH is able to interact with wild-type and E592R-substituted COP1 proteins but is unable to interact with the K422E-, R465E-, W467A-, and K550E-substituted proteins. This direct correlation between yeast two-hybrid interactions and the degradation of HYH protein in seedlings provides strong evidence that the COP1 interaction is directly mediating the dark-dependent degradation of HYH.  To examine the role of HYH in light-regulated seedling development, we screened the Arabidopsis knockout collection at Madison, WI, for T-DNA insertions in the HYH gene (CITATION). The HYH gene is located on the top arm of chromosome 3, and we identified a T-DNA insertion within the gene. The T-DNA is inserted in the first exon of the HYH gene at nucleotide position 20 from the translational start site. The T-DNA line was back-crossed into wild type (WS) and crossed into hy5-ks50,cop1-1, cop1-4, and cop1-6 alleles. Analyses of these crosses revealed a single T-DNA locus cosegregating with thehyh phenotype. The insertion results in no detectable levels of both HYH mRNA (Fig. 4B) and protein (Fig. 4C), suggesting thathyh-1 is a null mutation. Transcription of the HYHgene is dramatically higher in light-grown seedlings compared with seedlings grown in darkness (Fig. 4B). The light-dependent activation of HYH transcription is higher than the approximately two- to threefold activation observed for HY5 (CITATION). To further characterize the light regulation of HYH expression, we examined the relative levels of HYH mRNA in 6-DAG seedlings grown in monochromatic far-red, red, and blue light. We found that theHYH mRNA was present at high levels in red and blue light but that HYH mRNA accumulation was significantly reduced in seedlings grown in far-red light (Fig. 4B). Although the level ofHYH RNA in hy5 seedlings is comparable to wild-type levels (Fig. 4B), the HYH protein level is dramatically reduced in anhy5 mutant (Fig. 4C). This suggests that the presence of the HY5 protein is important for the normal accumulation of HYH protein.  When propagating the hyh plants we found that the hyhmutation causes early flowering. Long-day-grown plants with thehyh mutation flower after producing ∼6 rosette leaves compared to ∼12 in wild type. The hy5 mutation also results in early flowering after ∼6 rosette leaves. No additive effect is seen in the double-mutant plants (Fig. 5A).  [[FIGURE]] The seedling phenotype of hyh is relatively subtle compared with that of hy5. White-light-grown hyh seedlings are slightly paler than wild-type seedlings. No significant difference in chlorophyll content was observed (Fig. 5B), but hyh seedlings accumulate slightly reduced levels of anthocyanin (Fig. 5C). Thehy5 mutation results in an ∼6.5-fold reduction in anthocyanin accumulation, and hy5/hyh double-mutant seedlings contains ∼80% anthocyanin accumulation compared with that of thehy5 mutation alone. These results indicate that although the absence of HY5 protein has a dramatic effect on anthocyanin accumulation, the effect is enhanced if the HYH protein is also missing, suggesting an overlapping yet not redundant function between the HY5 and HYH proteins in white light. The hyh mutation has no significant effect on hypocotyl length or morphology of seedlings grown at any fluence of white, red, or far-red light or in the dark (data not shown). However, we found that blue-light-grown hyhseedlings have significantly longer hypocotyls than do wild-type seedlings (Fig. 5D). Furthermore, blue-light-grown hyh/hy5double-mutant seedlings have a longer hypocotyl than seedlings carrying the hyh or hy5 mutation alone (Fig. 5D), suggesting that the hyh mutation augments the hypocotyl phenotype ofhy5, specifically in blue light. These results suggest that HYH and HY5 have partially overlapping functions in light-dependent development and that the role of HYH is more pronounced under the blue-light condition.  The absence of hyh phenotypes in white, red, and far-red light stands in contrast to the hy5 mutant seedlings, which show elongated hypocotyls in all light conditions. It is not clear why mutations in these two related transcription factors give rise to so different phenotypes.  As a first step to address the functional relationship between these two structurally related proteins, we crossed the HYH overexpression transgene (HYH-OE) into the hy5-215 mutant in an effort to determine whether overexpression of HYH can compensate for the loss of HY5. Figure 6A shows 6-DAG seedlings grown in white light. Overexpression of HYH has no significant effect on the hypocotyl length: wild-type and two independent lines overexpressing HYH all have ∼1.5-mm-long hypocotyls. Interestingly, although the average length of hypocotyls inhy5-215 seedlings is ∼3.5 mm under our high-intensity white light condition, the hypocotyl length of hy5-215 seedlings overexpressing HYH is only ∼2 mm, suggesting that increased levels of HYH, indeed, can largely suppress the hy5 phenotype. Furthermore, hy5 seedlings are paler than wild-type seedlings because of a lower anthocyanin level and a reduced ability to accumulate chlorophyll (Fig. 5B,C), and the HYH overexpression is also able to partially suppress both of these phenotypes (data not shown). Taken together, these results show that although the phenotype ofhyh is subtle, overexpression of HYH can largely suppress the more dramatic phenotypes of hy5, suggesting a functional overlap also in white light.  [[FIGURE]] In an effort to examine a potential genetic interaction betweenhyh and cop1, we generated plants homozygous for bothhyh and each of the three viable cop1 alleles,cop1-1, cop1-4, and cop1-6. The double-mutant seedlings are indistinguishable from the respectivecop1 mutants when grown in darkness, suggesting that thehyh mutation is unable to suppress the dark phenotypes ofcop1. However, we were able to detect suppression of a light-dependent cop1 phenotype, the COP1-dependent block of greening. Dark-grown wild-type seedlings transferred to light readily begin photomorphogenic development with production of photosynthetic pigments and expansion and differentiation of the cotyledons. However, if the dark-grown cop1 seedlings are transferred to the light, a significant portion of the seedlings are unable to green and will bleach out and die. This COP1-dependent block of greening phenotype follows an allelic series and becomes more pronounced the longer the seedlings have been grown in the dark (CITATION). We found that a significant percentage of hyh/cop1-4 (37.7%) andhyh/cop1-6 (29.1%) seedlings were able to green when germinated in the dark for 4 d and then transferred to light for an additional 4 d. In contrast, no dramatic difference was observed between cop1-1 and cop1-1/hyh seedlings, suggesting that hyh acts as an allele-specific suppressor of thiscop1 phenotype (Fig. 7). This allele-specific suppression indicates a genetic interaction betweenhyh and cop1 and supports the notion of a direct physical interaction between the two proteins. Thus, our evidence places HYH in the same regulatory hierarchy as HY5.  [[FIGURE]] Considering their similar role in light-regulated development and the high homology between the DNA-binding basic domains of HYH and HY5 (21 acids are identical), it could be expected that these two proteins recognize the same or similar DNA sequences. HY5 has previously been shown to bind the G-box motif commonly found in light-regulated promoters (CITATION). To examine the ability of HYH to bind DNA, we used recombinant HYH and HY5 proteins in electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) with the G-box sequence from theRBCS promoter (CITATION). We found that full-length HYH binding to the G-box is comparable to that of HY5 (data not shown). However, because the mobility shifts observed for HY5 and HYH homodimers are very close, we were unable to determine whether the proteins are able to form heterodimers upon mixing. To increase the resolution of the assay, we expressed a truncated version (amino acids 62–149) of HYH containing the bZIP domain. Pre-existing homodimeric complexes were dissociated by incubation of full-length HY5, HYH62–149, and a mixture of HY5 and HYH62–149 at 50°C for 5 min prior to addition to the DNA. As shown in Figure8A, HY5 and HYH62–149 form discrete protein–DNA complexes that are readily resolved on the gel. Interestingly, when HY5 and HYH62–149 are mixed together, a complex with intermediary mobility can be detected. Because the DNA probe contains only one copy of the G-box motif, our result suggests the formation of HY5/HYH62–149 heterodimers when the proteins are incubated together. Furthermore, when mixing the HY5 and HYH62–149 proteins, the HY5/HYH62–149heterodimeric complex constitutes the clear majority of protein binding to DNA, suggesting that the HY5/HYH62–149 heterodimer complex is preferentially formed in vitro.  [[FIGURE]] To examine whether a complex containing both HYH and HY5 protein can be detected in vivo, we performed coimmunoprecipitation experiments using antibodies against HY5. As shown in Figure 8B, the HYH proteins are readily detectable in 3-DAG wild-type seedlings and present at reduced levels in hy5 seedlings. After immunoprecipitation with HY5 antibodies (Fig. 8B), we found that the HYH proteins, in particular the 21-kD band, are clearly precipitated from the wild-type extract, whereas no protein is detected from the hy5 andhyh extracts, as expected. Because the ∼27-kD HYH protein is largely masked by the IgG light chain, it is not feasible to judge its abundance in the immunoprecipitates. The absence of HYH protein in immunoprecipitates from hy5 seedlings suggests that the presence of HY5 protein is required for the immunoprecipitation of HYH protein with HY5 antibodies. The ability of HY5 antibodies to precipitate HYH protein appear to be specific because no HYH protein is detected in the HY5 preimmune precipitate from the wild-type extract (Fig. 8B). The result therefore indicates that precipitation of the ∼21-kD HYH protein requires the presence of HY5 protein, suggesting that HYH and HY5 are physically associated in vivo.  To further investigate the functional relevance of the observed physical interaction between HYH and HY5, we compared the expression profiles in blue-light-grown wild-type seedlings with that ofhyh, hy5, and hyh/hy5 mutant seedlings using an EST microarray. The microarray contains a total of 9216 ESTs, corresponding to an estimated 6200 unique genes (CITATION). Of the 9216 ESTs, 292, or 3.2%, were ≥twofold up- or down-regulated compared with wild type in at least one of the three mutant strains. The 292 EST entries with twofold or more differential regulation correspond to 149 unique genes (http://www.plantgenomics.biology.yale.edu). The cluster analysis (Fig.9A) shows that the differential expression (as indicated by color intensity of the bands) is weakest in wild-type versus hyh and strongest in the wild-type versushyh/hy5, corresponding well with the observed phenotype.  [[FIGURE]] Of the 149 genes with twofold or more differential regulation in at least one of the three mutant strains, 76 genes had higher expression in wild type than in respective mutant (repressed), and 73 genes had higher expression in the mutants compared with wild type (induced). The vast majority of the 149 genes, 135 (90.6%), were qualitatively similarly regulated in all three mutant strains, suggesting an extensive overlap between the expression profiles of hyh andhy5. The expression profiles for some of the representative genes are shown in Figure 9B. For example, Arabidopsis geneAt1g25190 (encoding an F-box protein) showed the highest fold repression in all three mutant strains with a ratio of 9.6, 7.9, and 5.1 in the hyh/hy5, hy5, and hyh mutants, respectively. Other repressed genes include At3g47340(encoding asparagine synthase) and genes encoding chloroplast-targeted proteins such as Lhcb3 (At5g54270), consistent with the specific role of HYH and HY5 in light-dependent G-box-mediated transcription. On the other hand, several of the genes that were expressed at higher levels in the mutant strains encode proteins affecting hypocotyl elongation. These include At2g43050 andAt1g65310, which encode a putative pectinesterase and a xyloglucan endotransglycosylase, respectively, as well as tonoplast-associated protein such as the putative aquaporinAt2g25810 (Fig. 9B), consistent with the hypocotyl phenotype seen in the hyh and hy5 mutants.  However, the gene expression profile overlap was not complete, and thehy5 and hyh mutations had opposite effects on the expression of 11 different genes (7.3% of the 149 genes), suggesting that HYH and HY5 also have distinct or opposite roles toward certain target genes. The genes that are regulated oppositely in thehyh and hy5 mutants include At5g57350, which encodes the plasma membrane proton pump ATPase 3, and the RING finger protein-encoding genes At1g01350 and At4g23450 (Fig.9B).  Figure 9C shows Venn diagrams of the genes with twofold or higher difference in expression in each of the three mutant strains. The expression profiles of hyh and hy5 seedlings showed an almost complete (17/21) overlap in the genes repressed by the mutations. The apparent overlap was slightly less for the genes expressed more highly in the mutants. Of the 16 genes with more than twofold expression in the hyh mutants, only nine genes also show twofold or higher expression in the hy5 mutant. However, the remaining five genes all showed higher expression in thehy5 mutant than in the wild type but fell short of the twofold threshold. Taken together, the high degree of overlap in the expression profiles of hyh, hy5, and hyh/hy5 seedlings and the finding that the fold of differential expression is lowest in the hyh mutant and highest in the hyh/hy5 mutant strongly support the notion that HYH and HY5 predominantly act in concert on the same set of genes under blue light. 
!~MM~! The Escherichia coli strain BNN123 was used for library excision, DH5α for subcloning, and BL21 DE3 for expression of recombinant protein. The Agrobacterium strain GV3101 pMP90 was used for plant transformation. The yeast strain Y190 (CITATION) was used for the two-hybrid screen and for the two-hybrid assays. Thehy5-ks50 (CITATION), hyh, andcop10-1 alleles are in the Wassiljevskaja ecotype as are thecop1-5 plants overexpressing wild type and K422E-, R465E-, W467A-, K550E-, and E592R-substituted COP1 proteins. Thecop9-1, det1-1, cop1-1, cop1-4, andcop1-6 alleles as well as the HYH-OE plants overexpressing HYH are in the Col-0 ecotype. TheHYH-OE/hy5-215 plants were generated by crossingHYH-OE into the Col-0 allele hy5-215. TheHYH cDNA (accession no. AF453477) was identical to portions of the predicted gene At3g17610 (CITATION), which is predicted to contain five exons. However, the cDNA differs from the prediction in that it contains 51 nucleotides 5′ of the ATG and that the third exon was the last exon but extends 151 nucleotides, including an in-frame stop codon 3′. The COP1cDNA for transgenic expression under control of the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus 35SCaMV promoter and terminator was cloned into pPZP222 (CITATION). The HYH cDNA was cloned into pBAR-A (DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank accession no. AJ251013) for expression under control of the full-length 35S CaMV promoter and the nopaline synthase terminator. The 35S::COP1 and HYH-OE constructs were transformed into cop1-5 (CITATION) and Col-0 plants, respectively, by the floral dip method (CITATION). Homozygous lines were then established from primary transformants. At least two independent lines with similar HYH and COP1 protein levels, respectively, were selected and used for detail analysis. Seeds were surface-sterilized, put on Murashige Skoog plates containing 1% sucrose, and cold-treated at +4°C for 72 h prior to germination. TheArabidopsis growth conditions have been described previously (CITATION). The intensities of continuous light sources are: white light (173, 25, 2.2 μmole/sec per m2), blue light (21.6, 2.6, 0.13 μmole/sec per m2), red light (115, 19, 2.4 μmole/sec per m2), and far-red light (145, 22.5, 2.9 μmole/sec per m2). Unless specifically stated, the highest light intensities for each light regime were used for the experiments.  The λACT cDNA expression library (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center no. CD4-22) was converted into a pACT library according to CITATION. The two-hybrid screen was performed essentially as described in CITATION. The β-galactosidase assays were performed as previously described (CITATION). The pRTL2–S65TGFP–HYH and pRTL2–BFP–COP1 constructs, containing versions of the green fluorescent protein (GFP) that have optimum excitations by blue and UV light and have maximum emission for green and blue light, respectively (CITATION), were introduced into onion epidermal cells by particle bombardment as previously described (CITATION). After bombardment, the onion cell layers were incubated at 22°C for 48 h in darkness. The cell layers were then mounted in water and examined by epifluorescence microscopy as previously described (CITATION).  The chlorophyll and anthocyanin measurements were performed essentially as described (CITATION, CITATION). Briefly, for the chlorophyll measurements, 4-DAG seedlings were harvested in darkness, weighed, frozen in liquid nitrogen, and ground to a fine powder. Total chlorophyll was extracted into 80% acetone, and chlorophyll a and b content were calculated using MacKinney's specific absorption coefficients in which chlorophyll a = 12.7(A 663) − 2.69(A 645) and chlorophyll b = 22.9(A 645) − 4.48(A 663). The total specific chlorophyll content is expressed as micrograms of chlorophyll per gram seedlings.  For the anthocyanin determinations, 3-DAG seedlings were weighed, frozen in liquid nitrogen, and ground, and total plant pigments were extracted overnight in 0.3 mL of 1% HCl in methanol. After addition of 0.2 mL of H20, chlorophyll was extracted with an equal volume of chloroform. The quantity of anthocyanins was determined by spectrophotometric measurements of the aqueous phase (A 530 − A657) and normalized to the total fresh weight of tissue used in each sample.  Recombinant truncated HYH protein with amino acids 62–149 fused to the maltose-binding protein (MBP) in the pMAL-c2X vector (New England Biolabs) was expressed in bacteria and purified with amylose resin (Biolabs) according to the manufacturer's protocol. The MBP was cleaved overnight at 4°C with factor Xa (Biolabs); the protease was subsequently inhibited with 10 μM of the specific inhibitor 1,5-Dansyl-Glu-Gly-Arg Chloromethyl Ketone (Calbiochem).  Then ∼40 ng of HYH62–149 protein and 40 ng of purified His-tagged HY5 protein (CITATION) were incubated at 50°C for 5 min either alone or mixed together in a volume of 4 μL. Two microliters of the heat-treated proteins were then added to 18 μL of buffer (15 mM HEPES, 1 mM EDTA, 6% glycerol, 1 mM DTT, 2 mM MgCl2, and 1 mM ZnSO4) containing 20,000 cpm kinased and annealed oligos 5′-AATTATCT TCCACGTGGCATTATTCC-3′. The proteins were incubated with DNA at 22°C for 10 min prior to separation on a 4% native polyacrylamide gel with 0.5× TBE as buffer. Immunoprecipitations were performed according to a previously published procedure (CITATION).  Microarray experiments and data analysis were performed according to a previously established protocol (CITATION). Briefly, 100 μg of total mRNA from 6-DAG blue-light-grown hyh,hy5, hyh/hy5, and wild-type seedlings was used to synthesize Cy3- and Cy5-labeled cDNA, respectively. Pairwise combinations of wild-type cDNA and an equal amount of respective mutant cDNA were used to simultaneously probe a glass slide containing duplicate arrays in three microarray experiments. Each experiment was repeated with reverse labeling. 
