!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis mutation, los2, impairs cold‐responsive gene transcription, acquired freezing tolerance and plant resistance to chilling under certain conditions. LOS2 was isolated through positional cloning and shown to encode an enolase in the glycolytic pathway. In animal cells, enolase has also been known to function as a transcription factor that represses the expression of c‐myc by binding to the c‐myc gene promoter. LOS2 fused to green fluorescent protein is targeted to the nucleus as well as to the cytoplasm. LOS2/enolase protein can bind to the cis‐element of the human c‐myc gene promoter and to the gene promoter of STZ/ZAT10, a zinc finger transcriptional repressor from Arabidopsis. STZ/ZAT10 expression is induced rapidly and transiently by cold in the wild type, and this induction is stronger and more sustained in the los2 mutant. Furthermore, the expression of a RD29A‐LUC reporter gene is repressed significantly by STZ/ZAT10 in transient expression assays in Arabidopsis leaves. Our results demonstrate that cold‐responsive gene transcription in plants is controlled by a bi‐functional enolase.
!~RES~! To facilitate genetic dissection of cold signaling, we previously constructed Arabidopsis plants that emit bioluminescence in response to cold temperatures. The plants express the firefly luciferase reporter gene (LUC) under the control of the RD29A promoter, which contains the cold‐ and osmotic stress‐responsive DRE/CRT element and the abscisic acid (ABA)‐responsive ABRE element (Ishitani et al., 1997). The RD29A‐LUC plants (referred to herein as wild type) were mutagenized by ethylmethane sulfonate, and mutants with aberrant luminescence responses were screened from the resulting M2 population by luminescence imaging using a cooled CCD camera (Ishitani et al., 1997). One mutant, designated as los2, shows a substantially reduced luminescence response specifically under cold stress, and was chosen for detailed characterization. FIG-REF shows the RD29A‐LUC transgene expression phenotype of los2 and wild‐type plants when treated with cold, ABA, NaCl or polyethylene glycol (PEG). Wild‐type and mutant plants were grown on the same agar plate and bioluminescence images were taken after the respective stress treatments. Without stress treatment, no RD29A‐LUC expression was detected in either the wild‐type or los2 plants (data not shown). In response to cold treatment for 24 h, wild‐type plants showed strong luminescence emission. In contrast, luminescence emission from cold‐treated los2 plants was very weak (FIG-REF). ABA, NaCl or PEG treatment induced similar levels of luminescence in wild‐type and los2 plants (FIG-REF, FIG-REF and FIG-REF). These luminescence images indicate that the los2 defect in RD29A‐LUC expression is specific to cold stress. A quantification of the luminescence shows clearly that RD29A‐LUC expression in los2 is virtually non‐responsive to cold, but is still fully responsive to ABA, NaCl or PEG. The cold‐induced luminescence was 9.2 times lower in los2 compared with the wild type (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] To test whether los2 plants display similarly reduced expression of the RD29A‐LUC transgene at different time points of cold treatment, 10‐day‐old seedlings on agar plates were cold treated for 0, 6, 12, 24 or 48 h and then used for luminescence imaging. As shown in FIG-REF, the luminescence intensity of wild‐type plants increased quickly in response to cold treatment, and reached a peak level after 24 h of cold treatment. In los2 plants, the luminescence intensity was very low throughout the time course of cold treatment. To test the dominance of the los2 mutation, F1 plants were obtained by backcrossing los2 plants with the wild type. All F1 plants exhibited the wild‐type phenotype of luminescence expression in response to cold treatment (data not shown). The F2 progeny of the selfed F1 showed an ∼3:1 segregation for wild type/mutant, when imaged for luminescence after cold treatment (data not shown). These results indicate that los2 is a recessive mutation in a single nuclear gene. RNA blot analysis was carried out to determine the impact of los2 mutation on the transcript levels of stress‐responsive genes. The endogenous RD29A transcript level was greatly induced in the wild‐type plants but this induction was lower in los2 mutant plants (FIG-REF). Induction of the RD29A transcript by ABA, NaCl or PEG treatment was not affected by the los2 mutation (FIG-REF). The effect of los2 on the cold induction of endogenous RD29A is less dramatic compared with the effect on RD29A‐LUC. This is probably because the RD29A‐LUC transgene contains only part of the RD29A promoter (a fragment containing −646 to −1 upstream of the transcription start site), and there may be additional unknown regulatory elements in the endogenous RD29A promoter or even in the untranslated regions or introns of the endogenous RD29A gene. The difference between RD29A‐LUC and endogenous RD29A expression levels has also been noticed in other mutants such as hos1 (Ishitani et al., 1998). [[FIGURE]] In contrast to the reduction of cold activation of RD29A expression, the los2 mutation virtually blocked the cold induction of LUC, COR15A, COR47, KIN and ADH (alcohol dehydrogenase) genes (FIG-REF). As with the induction of RD29A, induction of LUC, COR15A, COR47, KIN and ADH by ABA, NaCl or PEG was not significantly affected or not at all affected by the los2 mutation. The CBF/DREB1 transcription factor genes are induced specifically by cold treatment. We compared the expression of one of them, CBF2, in wild‐type and los2 plants (FIG-REF). The los2 mutation had no effect on the cold regulation of CBF2, implying that LOS2 does not function upstream of the CBF genes. Membrane fluidity is an important determining factor for cell adaptation to both high and low temperature stresses (Levitt, 1980). Plants are known to increase in polyunsaturated phospholipids to maintain proper membrane fluidity under cold stress (Miquel et al., 1993). We determined the expression of one of the desaturase genes, Δ9‐desaturase. The result shows that expression of this desaturase gene was highly induced by cold stress in the wild type (FIG-REF). The induction was much diminished in los2 mutant plants, indicating that polyunsaturation of membrane phospholipids may not occur in los2 in response to cold stress. The compatible osmolyte, proline, plays an important role in freezing tolerance (Delauney et al., 1993). The P5CS gene encodes the rate‐limiting enzyme, Δ1‐pyrroline‐5‐carboxylate synthetase, in proline biosynthesis. P5CS expression was induced slightly by cold treatment, and this induction was not affected by the los2 mutation. Curiously, P5CS induction by NaCl appeared to be reduced whereas its induction by PEG was enhanced in the los2 mutant (FIG-REF). Unless indicated otherwise, all our cold treatments were carried out in the dark. Under the dark cold treatments as well as under normal growth temperatures, los2 plants behaved just like the wild‐type plants, and no visible phenotypic changes could be detected. However, when los2 mutant plants were incubated in the cold under light, a striking phenotype was observed: the mutant plants wilted. The wilting of los2 plants first became visible at the leaf tips after 2 days at 4°C and under light. After 1 week, the mutant leaves were entirely desiccated but maintained their green color (FIG-REF). With prolonged cold and light exposure, los2 plants became bleached and dead (FIG-REF). In comparison, the vigor and survival of wild‐type plants were not visibly affected by even prolonged cold and light treatment. [[FIGURE]] The wilting of los2 plants in response to cold and light treatment appeared to be a result of a water deficit because no wilting occurred when the plants were covered with a plastic film (data not shown). However, the mutant plants did not lose more water than the wild‐type plants in the cold (in the light) or at normal growth temperatures (data not shown). Furthermore, the wilting occurred regardless of the amount of water supplied to the roots. We hypothesized that the cold‐induced wilty phenotype of los2 plants may be caused by impaired water absorption or conduction by the roots. It has been well documented that some chilling‐sensitive plants such as mung bean and tomato experience a sharp decrease in root hydraulic conductance and subsequent wilting when they are exposed to chilling temperatures (Markhart et al., 1979; Bagnall et al., 1983). We performed a series of grafting experiments to test the ‘water absorption/conduction’ hypothesis. The results show that wilting occurred when the grafted plants had los2 shoots, but no wilting occurred when they had wild‐type shoots, regardless of the root genotypes (FIG-REF). Because the wilting phenotype has nothing to do with the root genotype, the results clearly reject the ‘water absorption/conduction’ hypothesis. Since los2 mutant plants show light‐dependent chilling sensitivity, we performed experiments to determine whether the effect of the mutation on cold‐responsive gene expression is also light dependent. Luminescence imaging showed that reduced cold induction of RD29A‐LUC expression in los2 seedlings occurred in either light or dark conditions (data not shown). RNA blot analysis revealed that cold‐induced expression of RD29A, COR15A and COR47 was diminished by the los2 mutation in either light or dark conditions (data not shown). In contrast, cold‐induced CBF2 expression in either light or dark conditions was not reduced by the los2 mutation (data not shown). These results demonstrate that although los2 plants show light‐dependent chilling sensitivity, the effect of the mutation on cold‐responsive gene expression is not dependent on light. We attempted to examine the effect of cold acclimation on the freezing tolerance of los2 plants. Wild‐type and los2 plants were treated at 4°C under light for 2 days, and covered with plastic film to avoid the wilting of the mutant. The leaves were then excised and subjected to a standard electrolyte leakage assay (Ishitani et al., 1998). As expected, the wild‐type plants showed an increase in freezing tolerance and a decrease in electrolyte leakage, in response to the cold acclimation treatment (FIG-REF). Surprisingly, los2 leaves showed a dramatic increase in electrolyte leakage after the cold acclimation treatment (FIG-REF). The results suggest that los2 cell membranes became leaky when the mutant plants were exposed to cold and light, consistent with the chilling‐sensitive phenotype. [[FIGURE]] The los2 leaves that were treated for 2 days at 4°C under light (under a plastic film cover to prevent wilting) were examined under a transmission electron microscope. Under the electron microscope, los2 mesophyll cells were found to have disintegrated cell membranes (FIG-REF). Membrane blebbing was prevalent in los2 cells. These cytological changes indicate that the cold and light treatment induced cell death in los2 leaves. In order to avoid chilling sensitivity during cold acclimation treatment, wild‐type and los2 plants were incubated for 2 days at 4°C in the dark. The method of Xin and Browse (1998) was then used to determine cold‐induced freezing tolerance. Without cold acclimation treatment, wild‐type and los2 plants had the same level of freezing tolerance (FIG-REF). For example, both the wild type and los2 mutant survived −4°C freezing but neither survived −8°C freezing (FIG-REF). However, after the 2 day cold acclimation treatment in the dark, wild‐type plants became substantially more tolerant to freezing than los2 plants (FIG-REF). Most of the los2 plants did not survive freezing at −8°C. On the contrary, ∼81% of the wild‐type plants survived the −8°C freezing. Even after freezing at −10°C, ∼43.5% of the wild‐type plants survived (FIG-REF). The data indicate that los2 mutant plants are defective in cold acclimation. To map the LOS2 gene genetically, los2 plants in the C24 ecotype were crossed with wild‐type plants of the Columbia ecotype. The resulting F1 plants were selfed and the F2 progeny were planted and grown on MS agar plates for 10 days. Luminescence images of plants after 24 h cold treatment were obtained to select homozygous los2 plants for genetic mapping. Representative molecular markers that cover five Arabidopsis chromosomes were surveyed, and the LOS2 gene was located to chromosome II. Further mapping positioned LOS2 to the lower arm of chromosome 2, north of nga168. More refined mapping delimited LOS2 to a region covered by 10 bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones T20F21, F11F19, F9C22, F2H17, F1O11, F13K3, TIJ8, T2N18, F3G5 and F13M22 (FIG-REF). For the fine mapping, simple sequence repeats were identified from the BAC sequences, and PCR primer pairs were designed to amplify selected repeats to identify simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP) markers. Also, sequence polymorphisms between Col and C24 ecotypes identified during candidate gene sequencing to find a los2 mutation were utilized to develop molecular markers (see Materials and methods for details). In summary, with a total of 4563 los2 plants, the los2 mutation was delimited to an ∼28 kb region between the F1O11.12 and F1O11.20 markers (FIG-REF). There are seven predicted open reading frames (ORFs) in this region. All genomic DNA in this region including the seven ORFs was amplified from the wild‐type C24 and los2 mutant plants and sequenced. This sequence analysis revealed a single G to A mutation in the F1O11.16 gene that encodes an enolase (Van Der Straeten et al., 1991). The mutation would result in the substitution of Gly325 by serine in the los2 mutant. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that F1O11.16 is the LOS2 gene, the F1O11 BAC clone was digested with restriction enzymes EcoRI and SacI, which yielded a 5157 bp fragment containing the enolase ORF plus 886 bp upstream of ATG and 1386 bp downstream of the stop codon. The enolase fragment was cloned into the binary vector pCAMBIA 1200 and introduced into los2 mutant plants via Agrobacterium‐mediated transformation. Forty‐five hygromycin‐resistant individuals were selected, and their T2 and T3 progeny were subjected to complementation analysis with luminescence imaging. One representative line in the T3 generation was chosen to illustrate its luminescence response to cold treatment. The result is presented in FIG-REF, which shows that the F1O11.16 gene complemented the luminescence phenotype of los2 mutant plants. In addition, all of the 45 transgenic los2 plants expressing the wild‐type F1O11.16 transgene were exposed to 4°C under light for a week. None of the transgenic plants wilted, proving that the F1O11.16 gene also complemented the chilling‐sensitive phenotype of los2 mutant. The transcript of the LOS2 gene was constitutively present in Arabidopsis seedlings (FIG-REF). The transcript level appeared to be slightly up‐regulated in response to cold treatment. The los2 mutation did not alter this pattern of LOS2 transcript expression (FIG-REF). We fused the LOS2 promoter region (−1055 to −1 from ATG) to the α‐glucuronidase reporter gene (GUS), and the resulting construct was introduced into wild‐type Arabidopsis plants. GUS expression was detected in all plant tissues examined (FIG-REF). The LOS2 protein level was also up‐regulated slightly by cold treatments (FIG-REF). LOS2 protein was present in los2 mutant seedlings, but the level appeared to decline after a 2 day cold treatment (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Both the wild‐type and mutant LOS2 ORFs were expressed in bacteria to produce recombinant enolase proteins. In vitro assays carried out at 22°C showed that the wild‐type LOS2 protein had a high enolase activity. In comparison, the los2 mutant protein had a significantly reduced activity at 22°C (FIG-REF). When the assays were carried out at 0°C, both the wild‐type and mutant proteins displayed much lower activities. At 22°C, tissue extracts from los2 mutant also had a significantly lower activity compared with that from wild‐type plants (FIG-REF). At 0°C, tissue extracts from both wild‐type and los2 mutant plants had low activities, and the difference between the wild‐type and los2 plants was reduced (FIG-REF). These results show that LOS2 is indeed an enolase, and the los2 mutation disrupts the enolase activity at both warm and cold temperatures. Therefore, the los2 mutation is not a cold‐sensitive allele of LOS2. The fact that los2 tissue extracts had a much lower activity compared with the wild‐type extracts suggests LOS2 as the major contributor to enolase activity in Arabidopsis. Enolase has been implicated as a multifunctional protein in animals and fungi. For example, in human cells, part of the enolase has been identified as MBP1 that binds to the c‐myc promoter and represses c‐myc gene expression (Ray and Miller, 1991; Ghosh et al., 1999a; Feo et al., 2000). MBP1 is an alternatively translated form of enolase that simply lacks the first 93 amino acid residues (Feo et al., 2000; Subramanian et al., 2000; FIG-REF). As a glycolytic enzyme, enolase is localized in the cytoplasm. As a transcription factor, MBP1 is localized in the nucleus (Feo et al., 2000). [[FIGURE]] To examine the localization of LOS2 protein, green fluorescent protein (GFP) was fused in‐frame to the C‐terminus of LOS2, and the fusion protein expressed in Arabidopsis plants under the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. Fifteen independent T1 lines were selected and examined for GFP expression. Undoubtedly, GFP expression was detected in the cytoplasm (FIG-REF). However, GFP was also clearly detected in the nucleus (FIG-REF). The nuclear GFP expression was detected at both cold and normal growth temperatures (FIG-REF). GFP fusion with several truncated versions of LOS2 (e.g. starting with Met93 or Met187) gave similar localization patterns (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Human α‐enolase (ENO1) has been shown to bind to the c‐myc promoter and acts as a negative regulator of the c‐myc gene (Ray and Miller, 1991; Ghosh et al., 1999a). Comparison of LOS2 and human ENO1 sequences revealed that the putative DNA‐binding and repression domains are conserved in LOS2 (FIG-REF), suggesting that LOS2 may also be capable of binding to certain DNA sequences, perhaps sequences similar to the animal c‐myc promoter element. To address this possibility, we performed an electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) using His‐LOS2 fusion protein. As shown in FIG-REF, several DNA‐shifted bands were observed with a DNA probe containing the human enolase‐binding site in the c‐myc promoter. The binding of LOS2 to the labeled human c‐myc probe was competed off by unlabeled cold c‐myc probe but not by a 1000‐fold excess of poly(dI–dC), indicating the specificity of the LOS2–DNA interaction (FIG-REF). Since no c‐myc homolog is present in Arabidopsis, other genes might be targets for LOS2. The C‐terminal region of LOS2 is very similar to that of human enolase (FIG-REF), which serves as a repression domain (Ghosh et al., 1999a). To identify possible target genes of LOS2, we surveyed the promoter sequences of Arabidopsis genes encoding putative transcriptional repressors. We found that the region from −774 to −748 upstream of the translation initiation site of STZ/ZAT10, which encodes a putative transcriptional repressor (Ohta et al., 2001), has similarity to the enolase/MBP1‐binding sequence in the human c‐myc promoter (FIG-REF). As shown in FIG-REF, LOS2 was also capable of binding to this STZ/ZAT10 promoter fragment (−775 to −747). Competition experiments with mutated STZ/ZAT10 promoter fragment confirmed specific binding of LOS2 to this sequence. Mutant LOS2 protein could also bind to the fragment (−775 to −747) (FIG-REF). RNA blot analysis showed that STZ/ZAT10 expression was induced rapidly and transiently by cold stress in the wild type whereas, in the los2 mutant, the cold induction was stronger and more sustained (FIG-REF). These results suggest that LOS2 negatively regulates the expression of STZ/ZAT10 by binding to its promoter. To examine whether STZ/ZAT10 represses the expression of the RD29A gene, transient expression assays were performed in Arabidopsis leaves. The RD29A‐LUC transgene, containing an upstream sequence (−646 to −1 from the transcription start site) of the RD29A gene fused to the LUC reporter gene was delivered into Arabidopsis leaves by particle bombardment. When the effector plasmid containing STZ/ZAT10 under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter (FIG-REF) was co‐transfected with RD29A‐LUC, the LUC activity was reduced to ∼30% (FIG-REF). This observation suggests that STZ/ZAT10 represses the expression of the RD29A gene. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Mutant screening, procedures for stress treatment and bioluminescence imaging, and conditions for growing plants in soil were described previously (Ishitani et al., 1997; Lee et al., 2001). Two‐week‐old wild‐type and mutant plants grown on standard 0.6% agar medium containing Murashige and Skoog (MS) salt supplemented with 3% sucrose were treated with either low temperature, ABA, NaCl or PEG. Whole seedlings (∼0.3 g) were homogenized and total RNA was extracted as described (Lee et al., 2001). Gene‐specific DNA probes were as described (Ishitani et al., 1998; Lee et al., 2001). For the Δ9‐desaturase gene, a full‐length cDNA was used as the probe. The hypocotyls of 1‐week‐old seedlings grown vertically on MS agar plates were excised with micro‐dissecting scissors (Fisher Scientific) under a dissecting microscope, and wild‐type or mutant shoots were placed carefully on top of mutant or wild‐type roots, respectively. The re‐connected seedlings were incubated in sealed agar plates in order to heal under high humidity. Since the rate of success grafting was very low (∼5%), a large number of seedlings was used. Successfully grafted seedlings were transferred to soil and grown to the rosette stage for the examination of chilling sensitivity. The electrolyte leakage assay was carried out as described previously (Ishitani et al., 1998). The freezing tolerance assay was carried out as described by Xin et al. (1998). Briefly, seedlings were grown in a standard 0.6% agar medium for 2 weeks under continuous light. Plates with seedlings were placed in a freezing chamber set to −1°C and treated for 16 h prior to decreasing the temperature at 1°C/h. Freezing was initiated by the addition of ice chips to the plates. Plates were removed at the desired temperatures and placed at 4°C overnight for thawing. After recovery for 2 days, the number of surviving plants was scored. For cold acclimation, plates were incubated at 4°C in the dark for 2 days before the freezing treatment. For genetic mapping of the los2 mutation, the los2 mutant of the Arabidopsis C24 ecotype was crossed with wild‐type plants of the Columbia ecotype. A total of 4563 homozygous los2 mutants were chosen from the segregating F2 population with the phenotype of low expression of RD29A‐LUC after cold treatment. Genetic mapping was carried out as described (Lee et al., 2001). For los2 complementation analysis, a genomic fragment containing the enolase ORF plus 886 bp of upstream sequence and 1386 bp of downstream sequence was digested with EcoRI and SacI and inserted into the binary vector pCAMBIA 1200. The resulting plasmid was transferred to the los2 mutant via Agrobacterium‐mediated transformation. Forty‐five hygromycin‐resistant T1 transformants were selected, seedlings of T2 and T3 progeny were subjected to cold treatment and luminescence images were taken. In addition, all of the 45 transgenic los2 plants expressing the wild‐type F1O11.16 transgene were exposed to 4°C under light for a week to test the complementation of the chilling‐sensitive phenotype of los2 plants. For the LOS2‐GUS construct, a LOS2 promoter region from −1055 to −1 (relative to the ATG start codon) was amplified and inserted into SalI–SmaI sites of the binary vector pCAMBIA1391Z. The plasmid was transferred to wild‐type C24 plants. Twenty‐five hygromycin‐resistant T1 transformants were selected, and seedlings of T2 progeny were stained with X‐Gluc for 15 h as described (Lee et al., 2001). Wild‐type LOS2 cDNA was amplified by RT–PCR and inserted into the NcoI site of the binary vector pCAMBIA1200/35SP/GFP. Forty lines of hygromycin‐resistant T1 transformants were selected and their segregating T2 progeny were examined for GFP expression (Lee et al., 2001). The wild‐type and mutant LOS2 cDNAs were amplified by RT–PCR and inserted into the NcoI site of the expression vector pET14b. The plasmids were transferred to Escherichia coli cells (BL21 DE3, Codon Plus). Expression of His‐LOS2 fusion protein was induced by the addition of isopropyl‐β‐d‐thiogalactopyranoside to a final concentration of 1.5 mM. Purification of wild‐type and mutant His‐LOS2 protein was performed according to the manufacturer's instructions (His‐Bind Buffer Kit, Novagen, WI). The enolase activity assay and immunoblot analysis were as described (Van Der Straeten et al., 1991). EMSAs were carried out as described (Hao et al., 1998). The following double‐stranded oligonucleotides were used for probes and competitors in EMSAs. Human c‐myc, 5′‐GGAGGGATCGCGCTGAGTATAAAAGCCGGTTTCGG‐3′ (Ray and Miller, 1991); ZAT10, 5′‐GGTCTTGACGCGTTATATAAAATCCGTATTA‐3′; and m‐ZAT10, 5′‐GGAGGT CATATGGCGCGCCCCGAATGCGG‐3′. These probes were end‐labeled with [α‐32P]dCTP by Klenow fragment and purified through a Sephadex G‐50 column. The labeled probes were incubated with 5 μg of purified His‐LOS2 fusion protein in 1× binding buffer (Hao et al., 1998) supplemented with 20 pmol poly(dI–dC) for 20 min at room temperature. The resulting DNA–protein complexes were resolved by electrophoresis on a 6% polyacrylamide gel in 0.5× TBE buffer and visualized by autoradiography. For competition experiments, unlabeled competitors were incubated with the His‐LOS2 fusion protein on ice for 30 min prior to adding labeled probes. For the reporter gene construct, a fragment containing −646 to −1 upstream of transcription start site of the RD29A gene was fused transcriptionally to firefly LUC (Promega). A plasmid for the expression of STZ/ZAT10 was constructed as follows. The CaMV 35S promoter and the GUS reporter gene in pBI221was replaced by the 2× CaMV 35S promoter to generate 2× 35S‐Nos. The cDNA for STZ/ZAT10 was amplified by PCR, digested with SalI and inserted into SmaI and SalI sites of 2× 35S‐Nos. Plasmid DNA was delivered to Arabidopsis leaves using particle bombardment (Ohta et al., 2001).
