!~ABS~! The SCF (for SKP1, Cullin/CDC53,F-box protein) ubiquitin ligase targets a number of cell cycle regulators, transcription factors, and other proteins for degradation in yeast and mammalian cells. Recent genetic studies demonstrate that plant F-box proteins are involved in auxin responses, jasmonate signaling, flower morphogenesis, photocontrol of circadian clocks, and leaf senescence, implying a large spectrum of functions for the SCF pathway in plant development. Here, we present a molecular and functional characterization of plant cullins. TheArabidopsis genome contains 11 cullin-related genes. Complementation assays revealed that AtCUL1 but not AtCUL4 can functionally complement the yeast cdc53 mutant.Arabidopsis mutants containing transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertions in the AtCUL1 gene were shown to display an arrest in early embryogenesis. Consistently, both the transcript and the protein of the AtCUL1 gene were found to accumulate in embryos. The AtCUL1 protein localized mainly in the nucleus but also weakly in the cytoplasm during interphase and colocalized with the mitotic spindle in metaphase. Our results demonstrate a critical role for the SCF ubiquitin ligase inArabidopsis embryogenesis.
!~RES~! The cullin family encompasses at least six genes in humans and inCaenorhabditis elegans. The genome sequence ofArabidopsis has been determined (CITATION). A sequence similarity search reveals that the Arabidopsis genome contains 11 cullin-related genes that together with other eukaryotic members can be classified into distinct, distantly related groups (Figure1A). The APC2 group member contains a cullin homology region but is a subunit of the anaphase-promoting complex (APC), an E3 enzyme responsible for ubiquitination of mitotic regulators (for review, see CITATION). The APC-mediated destruction box pathway also seems to be conserved in plants (CITATION; CITATION). The ubiquitin-ligase complexes containing CUL3, CUL4, CUL5, and CeCUL6 are poorly characterized, although CUL3 has been demonstrated to be involved in the degradation of cyclin E (CITATION). The HsCUL2 protein functions in a ubiquitin-ligase complex containing the VHL tumor suppressor protein elongin-B (a ubiquitin-like protein), RBX1/ROC1, and elongin-C (a SKP1 functional homologue) that recruits a SOCS-box containing protein (reviewed in CITATION; CITATION). Also, CeCUL2 is not functionally redundant with CeCUL1 (CITATION). The mammalian and nematode CUL1 show the highest homology with ScCDC53 and form SCF complexes with similar partners: SKP1, ROC1/RBX1, and an F-box protein (reviewed in CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The AtCUL1 (At4g02570) protein, together with four otherArabidopsis proteins (At1g43140, At1g02980, At1g59800, and At1g59790), are the closest orthologues of ScCDC53, but their sequence does not allow assignment to either the CUL1 or CUL2 group (Figure 1A). Among these Arabidopsis proteins, only AtCUL1 has been demonstrated to be expressed (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION); whether the other proteins are also expressed is currently unknown. In addition, two of them (At1g59800 and At1g59790) contain the conserved N-terminal region (Figure 1B), which is involved in the interaction with SKP1 (CITATION; CITATION), but do not contain the conserved C-terminal region, which is required for interaction with RBX1/ROC1 and RUB1/NEDD8 modification (CITATION; CITATION).[[FIGURE]] To test whether plant cullins can functionally replace ScCDC53 to form active SCF complexes in yeast, we introduced the plant cullin cDNAs under the control of the TEF promoter (CITATION) into the yeast cdc53ts mutant strain, carrying a temperature-sensitive mutation in the ScCDC53 gene. Transformants that expressed ScCDC53 (positive control) or AtCUL1 were able to grow at a restrictive temperature (35°C), whereas the negative control containing the empty vector was not (Figure 2). The tobacco orthologue of AtCUL1, the NtCUL1, was also able to complement the yeast mutant. AtCUL4 (At5g46210, Figure 1A), however, failed to complement, which in addition inhibited yeast growth even at a permissive temperature (28°C).[[FIGURE]] RNA blot analysis shows that AtCUL1 encodes a single transcript of ∼2.5 kb, which is present in different organs ofArabidopsis plants (Figure3A). Whereas the histone H4 transcripts show higher levels in organs containing actively dividing cells (such as flowers and young seedlings), the AtCUL1 did not exhibit such specificity of expression, suggesting that the AtCUL1gene is not cell cycle regulated. In agreement with this assumption, the AtCUL1 transcript was found at a relatively constant level during different growth phases of suspension-cultured cells (Figure 3B). Also, in the synchronized tobacco BY2 cells, theNtCUL1 transcript was constantly present during different phases of the cell cycle (data not shown).[[FIGURE]] Antibodies directed against the N-terminal 20-amino-acid peptide of AtCUL1 were produced in rabbits and affinity purified against the antigen. Western blot analysis revealed that the antibodies specifically recognized AtCUL1 expressed in transgenic tobacco BY2 cells but not the endogenous tobacco cullins (Figure 3C). As described previously (CITATION; CITATION), two predominant bands that migrate close together were detected in the total protein extract from Arabidopsis seedlings (Figure3C). They correspond to unconjugated and RUB1-conjugated isoforms of AtCUL1 (CITATION). Interestingly, in both transgenic tobacco BY2 cells expressing AtCUL1 (Figure 3C, lane 2) andArabidopsis suspension-cultured cells (Figure 3B), only the unconjugated isoform was observed. Like its transcript, the AtCUL1 protein was present at a relatively constant level during different growth phases of suspension-cultured cells (Figure 3B). To study the localization of AtCUL1, both GFP and immunolocalization technologies were used. Transgenic tobacco BY2 cell lines expressing the 10×his-tagged AtCUL1 or the GFP-fused AtCUL1 (Figure 4) as well as transgenic tobacco plants expressing the GFP-fused AtCUL1 were generated. In interphase cells, GFP-AtCUL1 as well as AtCUL1-GFP were localized mainly to nucleus and weakly to cytoplasm in transgenic BY2 cells as well as in transgenic plants (Figure 5, A–C). Immunolocalization in Arabidopsis cells confirms this pattern of AtCUL1 localization (Figure 5D). Control immunolocalization experiments using the anti- AtCUL1 preimmune serum, either withArabidopsis (data not shown) or with tobacco BY2 cells constitutively expressing AtCUL1 (Figure 5E), did not show any detectable staining above background levels. In late G2 phase, a microtubule array called the preprophase band defines the future division plane of the plant cell. At this stage, AtCUL1 was still detected mainly in the nucleus and barely on the preprophase band (Figure 5F). Colocalization of AtCUL1 with mitotic spindle was observed at metaphase (Figure 5G). At telophase, AtCUL1 weakly colocalized with the phragmoplast (Figure 5H). On entrance into interphase, AtCUL1 localized primarily to the newly formed nucleus (Figure 5I).[[FIGURE]][[FIGURE]] Two T-DNA insertion lines, atcul1–1 andatcul1–2, were identified by PCR screening of a total of 40,000 independent transgenic lines of the Versailles T-DNA collection. In atcul1–1, two copies of T-DNA were inserted head-to-head in the intron between the 17th and 18th exons (Figure6). The insertion also caused a deletion of 25 nucleotides at the 5′ end of the intron and an addition of 13 nucleotides of unknown origin at the 5′ end junction betweenAtCUL1 and the T-DNA. In atcul1–2, two copies of T-DNA were inserted head-to-head in the third exon, which also resulted in a small deletion of 16 nucleotides of the exon and the addition of 7 and 2 nucleotides at the 5′ and 3′ end junctions betweenAtCUL1 and the T-DNA, respectively (Figure 6).[[FIGURE]] Heterozygous plants of the atcul1–1 line appeared normal in morphology. A decreased level of AtCUL1 was barely evident in these heterozygous plants (Figure 3C). The T-DNA inserted in theatcul1 mutants contains the chimeric nptII gene that confers Km resistance (Figure 6). Segregation tests for Km resistance on seeds produced by self-pollination of more than 60 individual atcul1–1 plants revealed that homozygousatcul1–1 plants could not be obtained. In addition, as shown in Table 1, the ratio of Km-resistant-to-Km-sensitive in self-progeny of individual heterozygous plants was significantly lower than the expected ratio of 3:1. The atcul1–2 line behaved very similarly toatcul1–1 (Table 1). To determine the inheritance of theatcul1 mutations in the male and female gametophytes, reciprocal backcrosses of heterozygous mutant plants with the wild-type plants were performed. Genetic analysis of Km resistance in the F1 progeny revealed that the inheritance of both atcul1–1and atcul1–2 mutations was reduced through both male and female gametes (Table 1). Together, these genetic studies reveal that mutations in the AtCUL1 gene affect the development, viability, or function of both male and female gametophytes and that homozygous atcul1 mutant embryos are aborted before seed production. To confirm that atcul1–1 and atcul1–2 are alleles, crosses between plants that were heterozygous for the two mutations were performed. The resulting F1 progeny exhibited a ratio of Km-resistant-to-Km-sensitive similar to that of the self-progeny of either mutant (Table 1). PCR-amplification analysis revealed that the Km-resistant plants produced from the crosses were eitheratcul1–1 or atcul1–2 genotype but never both (data not shown). These results indicate that atcul1–1 andatcul1–2 are allelic mutations responsible for the mutant phenotype. To further confirm that the mutation of AtCUL1 is responsible for the phenotype, genetic complementation was carried out. The first construct used carried the AtCUL1 cDNA under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter and failed to rescue the mutant phenotype of atcul1–1 (data not shown). A genomic fragment spanning from the −1024 base pairs upstream of the ATG to the stop codon of the AtCUL1 gene was subsequently cloned into a vector carrying the hpt gene, which confers hygromycin (Hyg) resistance (pBH-AtCUL1, Figure 4). Hyg-resistant plants were obtained from transformation of heterozygous mutant plants, and their self-progeny were scored for Km resistance. Of six independent transformants of atcul1–1 that produced Km-resistant progeny, three were found to display a ratio of Km-resistant-to-Km-sensitive of ∼3:1 (one of them is shown in Table1), as expected for rescue by the transgene. One transformant obtained on atcul1–2 exhibited the rescued segregation phenotype as well (Table 1). More than 50 siliques (with a total of more than 2000 ovules) on heterozygous atcul1–1 plants were dissected after self-pollination. Among these, ∼27% of embryos failed to develop (indicated by arrows), whereas the others developed normally into mature seeds (Figure 7A). A similar embryo-lethal phenotype was observed in the atcul1–2 line and also in two other atcul1 mutant alleles (H. Hellmann and M. Estelle, unpublished observations) recovered from the Wisconsin collection of T-DNA insertion lines. Differential interference contrast imaging of cleared ovules revealed that whereas the normal ovules contained zygotes that develop through the characteristic preglobular (Figure 7B), globular (Figure 7C), and heart (Figure 7D) stages into mature embryos, the arrested ovules do not contain developed zygotes (Figure 7, E–G). In addition, mutant ovules are missing the endosperm cells, which divide earlier and fill the space around the zygotes. The most advanced stage of an arrested ovule contained one zygote and one endosperm cell with either one or two nuclei (Figure 7, F and G) that were not properly separated from each other (Figure 7H).[[FIGURE]] The expression of the AtCUL1 during embryogenesis was further analyzed. In situ hybridization showed that the AtCUL1 antisense probe detected a strong signal in the embryo (Figure 8, B and C) but not the negative control sense probe (Figure 8A). Immunolocalization using the AtCUL1 antibody detected a strong staining in embryos, particularly in the nucleus (Figure 8, E and F). Such staining was not detected in the negative control by use of the preimmune serum (Figure 8D). These results together demonstrated high expression levels ofAtCUL1 transcript and protein in embryos, which further underscores the important function of AtCUL1 during embryogenesis.[[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The yeast strain cdc53st and the plasmid pJS161–53 carrying the CDC53 gene were a generous gift from D. Lammer and J. Singer (Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Washington, DC), and the vector p426TEF (CITATION) from A. Camasses (Institut de Physiologie, Strasbourg, France). The cDNAs covering the entire coding region of AtCUL1, NtCUL1, and AtCUL4 were cloned into the p426TEF vector by use ofBamHI–XhoI, SpeI–XhoI, and EcoRI–SalI restriction enzyme sites, respectively. The Arabidopsis plants were of the Wassilewskija ecotype. Seeds were produced under greenhouse conditions.Arabidopsis and tobacco BY2 cell suspensions were maintained by weekly subculture as described by CITATION andCITATION, respectively. Peptides containing the N-terminal 20 amino acids of AtCUL1 were synthesized, linked to KLH carrier proteins, and used to immunize rabbits. The antiserum was immunoaffinity purified against the same peptides bound to Sepharose matrix. The affinity-purified anti-peptide antibody (@AtCUL1) was diluted 1:4000 for Western blot analysis and 1:500 for immunolocalization. Antibodies against PSTAIRE and α-tubulin were purchased from Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA, and Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Arlington Heights, IL, and used as recommended. Total RNAs and proteins were prepared fromArabidopsis plants and suspension-cultured cells. Northern and Western blot analyses were performed as described previously (CITATION). Schematic representations of different plant vectors and sequences of oligonucleotides used in PCR amplification for vector constructions are shown in Figure 4. An epitope of 10 histidines was fused to the N- and C-terminus of the AtCUL1 by PCR amplification of the AtCUL1 cDNA by use of oligonucleotides P1 and P2, and P3 and P4, respectively. The amplified fragments were cloned into the BamHI and SacI restriction sites of the binary vector pBI121.1 (Clontech, Cambridge, UK), resulting in pBI-HisAtCUL1 and pBI-AtCUL1His. The whole coding region of the AtCUL1 cDNA was PCR-amplified by use of oligonucleotides P5 and P6 and subsequently cloned into theXhoI and NcoI sites of pSK-GFP (CITATION), resulting in pSKAtCUL1-GFP. Similarly, the PCR-amplified fragment of the AtCUL1 cDNA by use of oligonucleotides P3 and P7 was cloned into pKS-GFP by use ofBamHI and SpeI sites, resulting in pKS-GFPAtCUL1. After confirmation by sequencing of the AtCUL1 sequences and its in-frame fusion with green fluorescent protein (GFP), theXhoI-SpeI DNA fragments encoding the chimeric AtCUL1-GFP and GFP-AtCUL1 proteins were subcloned into the glucocorticoid-inducible vector pTA7002 (CITATION), resulting in pTA-AtCUL1GFP and pTA-GFPAtCUL1, respectively. The Arabidopsis BAC T10P11 containing the AtCUL1gene was received from the Genome Sequencing Center of the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. The region spining the AtCUL1 gene was PCR-amplified by use of oligonucleotides P7 and P8. The resulting PCR fragment was digested with EcoRI and SpeI and subsequently cloned into the EcoRI- andXbaI-digested pBinHyg-TX vector (CITATION), resulting in pBH-AtCUL1. Sequence analysis of the cloned fragment revealed that PCR amplification caused three T -to-C substitutions. Luckily, these substitutions were located at positions nonessential for the expression of AtCUL1. These different plant vectors were transferred by electroporation intoAgrobacterium, and the resulting strains were used in plant transformation. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were obtained byAgrobacterium-mediated transformation by the floral dip method (CITATION; CITATION). Tobacco plant transformation and the establishment of transgenic BY2 cell lines were as previously described (CITATION). The DEX induction for transgene expression and the confocal microscopy detection of GFP fluorescence were as previously described (CITATION). DNA pools of the Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion lines from the Versailles collection (CITATION) were screened for T-DNA insertion in the AtCUL1 locus. Forward and reverse primers from the sequence of the AtCUL1 gene were designed for PCR screening of the DNA pools by the combination of T-DNA left and right border–specific primers. PCR products were analyzed by Southern hybridization with the AtCUL1 cDNA and the T-DNA probes. PCR fragments hybridized with both probes were further confirmed by sequencing. Seeds were surface-sterilized and plated onto medium supplemented with kanamycin (Km) (50 mg/L) (half-strength Murashige and Skoog salts, 1% sucrose, 0.9% agar, pH 5.7). After 2 d at 4°C, the seeds were grown under 12 h light/12 h dark cycles at 22°C. The Km phenotype (resistant or sensitive) was scored after 2 weeks. Siliques were dissected fresh or after fixation in an ethanol/acetic acid (9:1) solution. Seeds (ovules) were removed from fixed siliques, cleared for 10 min to 2 h in Hoyer's solution (chloral hydrate/gum arabic/glycerol/water [100:7.5:5:30 g]), and imaged by use of Nomarski optics. Tobacco BY2 cells as well as Arabidopsis suspension cells were fixed in 3.7% paraformaldehyde as described (CITATION). Inflorescences and siliques ofArabidopsis plants were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde and embedded in paraffin wax, and 10-μm sections were prepared for immunolabeling and for in situ hybridization according to CITATION. Immunolabeling was performed as described by CITATION. The sense and antisense AtCUL1 probes for in situ hybridization were prepared by use of the DIG RNA Labeling Kit (Roche; Catalog No. 1175025), and hybridizations were performed as described by CITATION.
