!~ABS~! Real time biomolecular interaction analysis based on surface plasmon resonance has been proven useful for studying protein-protein interaction but has not been extended so far to investigate enzyme-enzyme interactions, especially as pertaining to regulation of metabolic activity. We have applied BIAcore technology to study the regulation of enzyme-enzyme interaction during mitochondrial cysteine biosynthesis in Arabidopsis thaliana. The association of the two enzyme subunits in the hetero-oligomeric cysteine synthase complex was investigated with respect to the reaction intermediate and putative effector O-acetylserine. We have determined an equilibrium dissociation constant of the cysteine synthase complex (K D = 25 ± 4 × 10−9 m), based on a reliable A + B ⇔ AB model of interaction. Analysis of dissociation kinetics in the presence of O-acetylserine revealed a half-maximal dissociation rate at 77 ± 4 μm O-acetylserine and strong positive cooperativity for complex dissociation. The equilibrium of interaction was determined using an enzyme activity-based approach and yielded aK m value of 58 ± 7 μm O-acetylserine. Both effector concentrations are in the range of intracellular O-acetylserine fluctuations and support a functional model that integrates effector-driven cysteine synthase complex dissociation as a regulatory switch for the biosynthetic pathway. The results show that BIAcore technology can be applied to obtain quantitative kinetic data of a hetero-oligomeric protein complex with enzymatic and regulatory function. 
!~RES~! Detailed biochemical and biophysical analysis of the interaction of the SAT and OAS-TL subunits of the CSC was hampered in the past by limiting protein preparation procedures. To prepare sufficient amounts of purified complex, the co-expression and purification protocol for the mitochondrial CSC consisting of SAT-A and OAS-TL-C was optimized for the recombinant proteins from E. coli and could be completed within 2 h after harvest of cells. From 1 liter of culture a total of 60–80 mg of soluble protein was obtained that yielded an average of 4–8 mg of homogenous CSC after histidine tag affinity purification according to denaturing gel electrophoresis (Fig. 2). The hetero-oligomeric CSC bound to the nickel affinity matrix and was eluted by imidazole. In addition, OAS-TL was specifically and completely dissociated from column-bound SAT by the reaction intermediate OAS and regained full activity as a free homodimer. Thereafter, bound SAT could be eluted with imidazole. Some smaller protein bands were occasionally observed after purification and were verified as very minor degradation of both proteins as indicated by immunoblotting with specific antibodies (data not shown). The CSC itself as well as SAT and OAS-TL alone exhibited reproducible and high specific activities (Table I). SAT was active in the complex, but OAS-TL was strongly inactivated, displaying 6.5% activity compared with the same protein after dissociation from SAT. Isolated SAT protein remained fairly stable in vitrowith about 50% loss of activity after 24 h at 4 °C but proved to be sensitive to high concentrations of SAT protein at low temperatures. The advanced high yield and purity protocol thus provided functional CSC and its subunits.  [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] The bifunctional role of OAS as a reaction intermediate and an effector was analyzed with respect to the dissociation equilibrium of the CSC. Because free OAS-TL was 15-fold more active than complex-bound OAS-TL, the ratio between these two activation states could be modulated by preincubation of the CSC with increasing OAS concentrations followed by assay incubation at substrate-saturated conditions. No cysteine was formed during the preincubation period because of the absence of sulfide. Two minutes of preincubation were found to be sufficient to establish the corresponding equilibrium (data not shown). The activation of OAS-TL in response to OAS treatment followed a hyperbolic function that reached 80% saturation at 200 μm OAS (Fig.3). An optimized fit of the data followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics. A Michaelis-Menten constant was calculated that in this case describes an effector constant of OAS for OAS-TL activity. The obtained K = 58 ± 7 μm corresponds to 50% of maximal OAS-TL activity and 50% dissociation state of the CSC. This indicates that, in the absence of sulfide, OAS concentrations of ∼20–200 μm promote equilibrium states of almost complete association or dissociation of the CSC.  [[FIGURE]] Kinetic properties of the CSC were characterized by combination of SAT with independently purified OAS-TL using a BIAcore X instrument. For real time interaction analysis the histidine-tagged SAT subunit was immobilized as ligand on a Sensor Chip NTA (CITATION). Because the assembled CSC consists of a hetero-oligomer of presumably one SAT homotetramer and two OAS-TL homodimers, special care was taken to ensure that complex stability was sufficiently reproducible to obtain binding SPR kinetics that could be correctly evaluated using established algorithms. Flow cell 1 was not charged with nickel. All solution had to pass this reference cell first before the nickel-charged flow cell 2 was incubated. Sensograms showed very minor nonspecific binding of SAT or OAS-TL in the range of 5% of the nickel-coated chip (Fig.4 A). The sample chip in flow cell 2 was generally loaded with non-saturating amounts of SAT protein that corresponded to a signal of 1000 RU. Sometimes a small spike was observed following injection that might be a reaction of SAT oligomer rearrangement on the chip surface. The stable sensor signal observed during washes with running buffer (Fig. 4 A, line C), however, indicated a high stability of the bound SAT, possibly because each SAT homo-oligomer provides several histidine-nickel-binding sites. Injection of saturating amounts of OAS-TL (1000 nm) lead to a signal ratio of SAT:OAS-TL = 2:1.  [[FIGURE]] In SAT/OAS-TL association experiments the different OAS-TL concentrations applied correlated with increasing slopes of the association sensorgrams (Fig. 4 B). Curve fits were performed under the assumption of an A + B ⇔ AB binding model to calculate association kinetics where A would represent a SAT tetramer and B an OAS-TL dimer. The plot of k s versus concentration C [OAS-TL] yielded a linear function from which the association rate constant k a = 5.1 × 104 m −1s−1 was calculated (Fig. 4 C). Self-consistency of the data was confirmed by fitting data to the equation 1/R eq = (K D,eq +C)/(R max C), whereR eq is the response at equilibrium andR max the response for complete saturation of SAT with OAS-TL (CITATION). Application of this latter equation yielded an approximated K D value in the same range as before (not shown). The linear association kinetics over a 10-fold concentration range of the analyte OAS-TL strongly suggests that the simple binding model is applicable to describe the interaction between SAT and OAS-TL oligomers as suggested in equilibrium 1 of Fig. 1.  A mono-exponential fit was performed to calculate an approximation of the dissociation rate constant. A value for k d = 1.3 × 10−3 s−1 was obtained. Dissociation was independent of OAS-TL concentrations as expected. Although the dissociation phase showed some deviation from the A + B ⇔ AB model in very late stages (>900 s), its kinetic analysis still provided a good approximation. An effect of SAT dissociation from the chip on the observed kinetics was negligible as shown bygraph C in Fig. 4 A. Thus, an equilibrium dissociation constant (K D) in the absence of any effector could be calculated as K D = 25 ± 4 × 10−9 m (n = 4).  To determine the kinetic relationship between dissociation of the cysteine synthase complex and free OAS as depicted in Fig. 1, we applied different concentrations of OAS in the dissociation buffer (Fig. 5 A). The OAS concentration-dependent change in k d, as determined from the initial phase of dissociation kinetics (900 s), showed somewhat stronger deviation from the ideal mono-exponential behavior than in the absence of effector. The plot ofk d versus [OAS] resulted in a sigmoidal function (Fig. 5 B). When modeled according to Hill, a Hill coefficient of 2.4 could be derived from these data, indicating high cooperativity for the dissociation of SAT and OAS-TL mediated by the effector OAS. The feasibility of this fit was justified by least square analysis (r 2 = 0.99) compared with differential data fits using Michaelis-Menten kinetics (r 2 = 0.94; dashed line in Fig.5 B). In particular the small standard errors obtained for the individual k d values at low OAS concentrations clearly support the sigmoidal slope (inset with initial reaction slopes in Fig. 5 B). The k /2 corresponding to a half-maximal dissociation rate was calculated to 77 ± 4.2 μm OAS (n = 4). Thus, the OAS concentration required to achieve 50% dissociation of the complex as determined via OAS-TL activation and 50% of the maximal dissociation rate as determined by biomolecular interaction analysis are in the same range. Due to micro-reversibility such an effect of OAS can also be expected for CSC formation. Both findings strongly indicate that changes of OAS concentrations in a narrow range of 50–80 μm result in significant changes of association state of the CSC. It is concluded that independent evidence derived from biochemical and biophysical approaches points to a double function for OAS not only as a substrate but also as an effector with the potential to regulate the association state of the CSC in vivo.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! General cloning procedures, sequencing, and PCRs were carried out as described (CITATION) using Escherichia coli XL1-Blue (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) as a host. The coding region of SAT-A (X82888; see Ref. CITATION) without mitochondrial target peptide, reaching from bp 28 to 939, was amplified by PCR, verified by DNA sequencing, and cloned into pET28a (kanamycin resistance; Novagen, Madison, WI), yielding a fusion protein of 35 kDa with an N-terminal histidine tag for affinity purification. Mitochondrial OAS-TL-C (AJ271727; see Ref. CITATION) was expressed in pET3d (ampicillin resistance) as described (CITATION) but without purification tag.  SAT and OAS-TL were expressed singly or simultaneously in E. coli HMS 174 (Novagen) and purified following an optimized procedure of Drouxet al. (CITATION). Cells were grown overnight after induction (1 mm isopropyl-1-thio-β-d-galactopyranoside) in LB medium supplemented with 100 μg/ml ampicillin, 50 μg/ml kanamycin, or both and 15 μm thiamine and 10 μm pyridoxine HCl. Cells were lysed by ultrasonication in elution buffer (50 mm HEPES/NaOH, pH 7.5, 300 mm NaCl, 0.05 mm EDTA, 0.005% Igepal CA-630) containing 40 mm imidazole, and protein supernatant was obtained by centrifugation (20 min, 48,000 × g). OAS-TL-C alone was purified to apparent homogeneity by fast protein liquid chromatography essentially as described (CITATION). SAT alone or the complex of SAT with OAS-TL was affinity-purified using a nickel-NTA-loaded HiTrapTM chelating column (volume 1 ml;Amersham Biosciences). Protein supernatant (60–80 mg of protein) was directly applied to the column and washed with 10 ml of elution buffer containing 80 mm imidazole. Bound SAT·OAS-TL complex was eluted with elution buffer containing 400 mmimidazole in 5 fractions of 1 ml and yielded a total of 4–8 mg of pure complex. In order to isolate SAT alone, bound complex was first treated with 5 ml of elution buffer containing 80 mm imidazole and 50 mm OAS. This caused complete dissociation of OAS-TL and was followed by a washing step with 10 ml of elution buffer containing 80 mm imidazole. SAT was subsequently eluted with imidazole as described above. Complex and free SAT in fraction 2 containing the highest protein concentration was diluted 10-fold immediately after elution with elution buffer lacking imidazole to avoid precipitation of protein.  SAT activity was determined via UV absorption as described (CITATION). OAS-TL activity, with or without SAT, was assayed in a volume of 100 μl containing assay buffer (50 mm Tris/HCl, pH 7.5), 40–50 ng of purified protein, 10 mm O-acetyl-l-serine, 5 mmNa2S, and 2.5 mm dithiothreitol for 5 min at 25 °C. Cysteine was determined as described (CITATION). The dissociation state of the CSC in response to the presence of OAS was analyzed via increased OAS-TL activity according to the following assay sequence. 1) 40–50 ng of purified CSC was pretreated at 25 °C in a 10-μl volume containing assay buffer, no sulfide, and 0–1 mmOAS. 2) The assay was started by addition of 90 μl of assay buffer containing 2.75 mm dithiothreitol with 11 mmOAS and 5.5 mm Na2S. 3) Incubation was for 5 min at 25 °C, and cysteine determination was as above. Each measurement was carried out four times and repeated with three independent protein preparations. Kinetic analysis was performed using SigmaPlot software. Optimized fits resulted in hyperbolic functions based on the Michaelis-Menten equation: v = (V max × [S])/(K m + [S]). Determinations of protein concentrations and denaturing SDS-PAGE were carried out following standard protocols (CITATION).  Real time biomolecular interaction analysis was performed by surface plasmon resonance technology using a BIAcore X instrument equipped with a Sensor Chip NTA (CITATION) from BIAcore AB (Freiburg, Germany) and the polyhistidine-tagged SAT. All experiments were carried out at 25 °C with a constant flow rate of 5 μl/min with 50 mm HEPES/NaOH, pH 7.4, 300 mm NaCl, 0.05 mm EDTA, and 0.005% Igepal CA-630 as running buffer. The cell without nickel loading served as a reference for nonspecific binding of proteins and chemicals. All solutions first passed this flow cell (one) and then the one with nickel charging (two). Net signal changes were calculated as differences of flow cell 2 minus flow cell 1. Flow cell 2 was charged by addition of 5 μl of 0.5 mm NiCl2 to the running buffer giving rise to a signal of 40–50 relative units (RU). Purified SAT (25 ng/μl) was immobilized by injection of 5–10 μl of solution until a loading density equivalent to 1000 RU was reached. Kinetic analysis of protein interaction was carried out by injection of seven different OAS-TL concentrations in running buffer in the range of 20–200 nm. The measurement series was repeated with three independent preparations of SAT protein and OAS-TL dilutions for each OAS-TL concentration. For OAS dissociation experiments, OAS-TL was injected at a concentration of 100 nm (∼400 RU) followed by injection of 100 μl containing 14 different OAS concentrations from 0.5 to 600 μm in running buffer with four repetitions. After each experiment the chip surface was regenerated by injection of the following: 1) 10 μl of 0.5% SDS; 2) 50 μl of protease K (100 μg/μl); 3) 5 μl of 0.5% SDS; 4) 5 μl of 0.35m EDTA; 5) 5 μl of 0.5 mm NiCl2(only flow cell 2). For data analysis the rate constants were calculated using the BIAevaluation software 3 without drift option during curve fitting (BIAcore AB, Freiburg, Germany) (CITATION, CITATION). Data were fitted to a first order kinetic A + B ⇔ AB model. The dissociation rate constant k d was determined from fitting the dissociation phase of the curves to the equationR =R 0 e −kd ( t−t 0). The association phase was fitted to the equation R =R 0/k s (1 −e −ks ( t−t 0)). The association rate constant k a was determined as the slope of k s plotted against C(k s = k a C +k d). The equilibrium dissociation constant was determined by K D =k d/k a. 
