!~ABS~! Interactions between homologs in meiotic prophase I, such as recombination and synapsis, are critical for proper homolog segregation and involve the coordination of several parallel events. However, few regulatory genes have been identified; in particular, it is not clear what roles the proteins similar to the mitotic cell cycle regulators might play during meiotic prophase I. We describe here the isolation and characterization of a new Arabidopsis mutant called solo dancers that exhibits a severe defect in homolog synapsis, recombination and bivalent formation in meiotic prophase I, subsequently resulting in seemingly random chromosome distribution and formation of abnormal meiotic products. We further demonstrate that the mutation affects a meiosis‐specific gene encoding a novel protein of 578 amino acid residues with up to 31% amino acid sequence identity to known cyclins in the C‐terminal portion. These results argue strongly that homolog interactions during meiotic prophase I require a novel meiosis‐specific cyclin in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! In higher plants, male meiosis occurs inside the anther portion of the male reproductive organ, the stamen. To identify genes important for male meiosis, we screened for Ds insertional mutants with reduced fertility (see Materials and methods). Wild‐type Arabidopsis plants (FIG-REF) produce large seedpods with dozens of seeds. We found that the progeny of one of the Ds lines segregated for normal and nearly sterile plants that had small seedpods (FIG-REF); furthermore, the normal and mutant plants were in a ratio of ∼3:1, suggesting that the parental plant was heterozygous for a recessive mutation. When the mutant plants also expressed the Ac transposase, they could produce fertile sectors due to the excision of the Ds element (FIG-REF). Whereas normal flowers produce many pollen grains (FIG-REF), the mutant flowers produced little or no normal pollen (FIG-REF). Nevertheless, the mutant was able to produce some seeds when pollinated with wild‐type pollen, indicating that it was female fertile, although the seed set was much lower than normal. In addition, progeny of a cross from such a pollination were normal, confirming that the mutation was indeed recessive. We have named this new mutant solo dancers (sds) for its meiotic phenotype (see below). [[FIGURE]] The sds mutant appeared to be normal in vegetative and flower development, producing normal floral organs (FIG-REF; other data not shown). Wild‐type Arabidopsis anthers in an unopened floral bud contain normal pollen grains (FIG-REF). However, the sds mutant anthers had many abnormal pollen grains with variable sizes (FIG-REF). The defective pollen grains degenerated before the flower opened (data not shown). Analysis of immature anthers showed that the mutant microspores also had different sizes (FIG-REF), unlike normal microspores (FIG-REF). Further examination revealed that whereas a normal meiosis always produces four microspores of equal size in a tetrad (FIG-REF), the mutant male meiosis produced 2–8 microspores of variable sizes (FIG-REF shows a ‘hexad’ with six spores). From 565 sds meioses, we found six (1.1%) diads, 20 (3.5%) triads, 293 (51.9%) tetrads, 141 (25%) pentads, 80 (14.2%) hexads, 21 (3.7%) heptads and four (0.7%) octads. Therefore, the sds mutant is defective in male meiosis. To determine meiotic defect(s) of the sds mutant, we compared wild‐type and mutant male meiosis using a chromosome spread and 4′,6‐diamino‐2‐phenylindole dihydrochloride (DAPI) staining procedure (CITATION). During leptotene (FIG-REF) (CITATION), chromosomes begin to condense and form visible thin lines. Chromosomes continue to condense and begin synapsis at zygotene (FIG-REF); at pachytene (FIG-REF), homologs have completed their synapsis, as indicated by the appearance of thick lines. In late diplotene (FIG-REF), homologs desynapse along much of the chromosome, leaving only limited association at the chiasmata; the chromosomes are also condensed further. At late diakinesis (FIG-REF), chromosomes are very highly condensed and the five bivalents can be easily recognized. [[FIGURE]] In sds mutant cells, chromosomal patterns similar to the wild‐type leptotene through pachytene stages were observed (FIG-REF). Although it is difficult to determine whether diplotene in the sds mutant (FIG-REF) was normal, it was obvious that by diakinesis the homologs were not attached in sds cells, as indicated by the observation of 10 univalents (FIG-REF). In addition, we noticed that the sds cells with chromosome images similar to that in FIG-REF were very infrequent, suggesting a defect in synapsis. To determine the distribution of prophase I cells, we examined hundreds of wild‐type and sds meiotic cells. Because male meiosis in Arabidopsis is slightly asynchronous, a population of male meiotic cells from a single flower can cover a few adjacent meiotic stages or substages of the long prophase I. When data from samples containing only or largely prophase I cells were summarized (FIG-REF), we found that among the wild‐type prophase I cells (three samples, 717 cells), nearly half were pachytene cells, and relatively few were leptotene cells, with the other stages having moderate numbers of cells. In particular, pachytene was also the most frequent class in each individual sample (data not shown). In contrast, the sds mutant showed a dramatically different distribution for prophase I substages (six samples, 1241 cells); the number of cells at the leptotene and zygotene stages was higher than normal, whereas cells at the pachytene stage were very rare. In this case, pachytene‐like cells were the least frequent in each sample. The sds distribution of prophase I stages further supports the idea that synapsis is defective in the mutant. [[FIGURE]] Therefore, the sds mutant had a clear defect in homolog synapsis and bivalent formation in male meiosis, suggesting that normal homolog synapsis could not be achieved in the absence of SDS gene function, and chromosomes form univalents at the end of prophase I. On the other hand, chromosome condensation seems to be unaffected by the sds mutation, unlike the syn1 mutant (CITATION; CITATION). We likened the wild‐type chromosome interactions and condensation to a highly choreographed duet dance in which homologs ‘dance’ in pairs. Therefore, the mutant had a clear phenotype of homologs behaving as 'solo dancers’. Next, we compared wild‐type and sds meiosis from metaphase I to telophase I for possible additional mutant defects. In wild‐type cells at metaphase I (FIG-REF and FIG-REF), the five bivalents align at the equatorial plane. At anaphase I, homologs separate (FIG-REF), and move towards the opposite pole of the spindle (FIG-REF). In contrast, the univalents in the sds mutant did not align completely; some of them were quite far from the equator (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). The abnormal distribution seemed to persist (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). It seemed that usually more than two clusters of chromosomes were formed. We examined chromosome distribution at late meiosis I. For wild‐type cells at anaphase I, 62 out of 66 cells (93.9%) showed a 5:5 even distribution of chromosomes; the other four cells had <10 chromosomal DAPI spots, most probably due to a superimposition of some chromosomes. On the other hand, sds male meiotic cells exhibited many abnormal distribution patterns. Among 71 sds cells at anaphase I, 46 cells (64.8%) had two groups of chromosomes with the following distributions: 5:5 (nine cells), 6:4 (16 cells), 7:3 (14 cells), 8:2 (six cells) and 9:1 (one cell). The remaining cells had one (14 cells; 19.7%), two (eight cells; 11.3%) or three (three cells; 4.2%) chromosomes at the equator, with various distributions of other chromosomes (data not shown) on either side of the equator. Because the sds mutant also had reduced female fertility, we examined female meiosis in the wild‐type and the sds mutant. As shown in FIG-REF, wild‐type prophase I at diakinesis displays five bivalents (FIG-REF), which become highly condensed at metaphase I (FIG-REF). The homologs separate at anaphase I, showing two groups with five chromosomes each (FIG-REF). In contrast, female meiosis in the sds mutant at diakinesis showed a variable number of univalents. Among 48 nuclei observed, 23 (47.9%) had only univalents (e.g. FIG-REF), similar to the sds male meiosis. Seven (14.6%) and eight (16.7%) nuclei had one (FIG-REF) or two bivalents (data not shown), respectively, with additional chromosomes forming univalents. Only a very small number of nuclei had four (2/48, or 4.2%) or five (2/48) bivalents (data not shown). These 8% of female meioses probably accounted for most of the female fertility when normal pollen was used. At metaphase I in the sds mutant, as expected, many female meioses had only univalents (FIG-REF) and others had some bivalents (FIG-REF). At anaphase I, one or more pairs of chromosomes were often observed, suggesting that they were homologs that had been associated in bivalents (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Other anaphase I images are consistent with an absence of bivalents (data not shown). These results indicate that in the sds mutant, female meiosis is defective in a way similar to male meiosis, but to a lesser extent. [[FIGURE]] During meiosis II in the wild‐type male meiocytes (FIG-REF), the two groups of chromosomes are separated by a band of organelles (arrows in FIG-REF). Partially condensed chromosomes were observed during prophase II (FIG-REF); at metaphase II, they congressed at the two equators (FIG-REF). Sister chromatids then separated at anaphase II (FIG-REF), moved to opposite poles at telophase II (FIG-REF) and decondensed to form four nuclei (FIG-REF). In the sds mutant, chromosome distribution was abnormal, most probably due to a defective meiosis I, but chromosome condensation and sister chromatid separation seemed to be quite normal. Chromosomes condensed at prophase II (FIG-REF and FIG-REF), but alignment was abnormal (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Then sister chromatids separated at anaphase II (FIG-REF and FIG-REF), and moved apart at telophase II (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Distributions of meiotic cells from metaphase I to the end of meiosis II were not dramatically different between the wild type and the sds mutant (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Our results indicate that the sds mutant is defective in homolog synapsis and bivalent formation in prophase I. In addition, there was no obvious defect during later stages of meiosis I or during meiosis II other than those that are probable consequences of the failure to form bivalents. Furthermore, clear separation of sister chromatids at meiosis II indicates that meiotic DNA replication was not obviously affected in the mutant. Therefore, the sds mutant is specifically defective in homolog interaction during prophase I. The phenotypes of the sds mutant were similar to those of the recombination mutants Atspo11 and Atdmc1, suggesting that sds might also be defective in recombination. To test such a defect in the sds mutant, we generated sds/sds plants that were heterozygous (L1L2/C1C2) for two molecular markers on each of chromosomes II and V (see Materials and methods). Although the sds mutant was nearly sterile, it was able to produce 50–100 seeds per plant (a normal plant can easily produce several thousand seeds). When the seeds from sds plants were planted, many of them developed to maturity and exhibited the same sds defects in fertility and meiosis (data not shown), indicating that the seeds from sds plants were not from cross‐pollination. The progeny of sds/sds plants allowed the analysis of recombination frequency in the sds mutant. The sds/+ or +/+ siblings were also heterozygous for the same molecular markers and served as positive controls for recombination. The progeny of both sds and normal plants (L1L2/C1C2) were analyzed for genotypes of these markers. As shown in Table I, for the markers nga1126 and AthBIO26 on chromosome II, the control plants had 17.0% recombinants, whereas the sds plants had no detectable recombinants. Similarly, for the markers nga76 and nga106 on chromosome V, the control plants showed 16.5% recombinants, in contrast to the 4.5% recombinants among sds plants. Therefore, meiotic recombination is greatly reduced in the sds mutant. Our results were obtained from viable seedlings, which resulted from viable pollen and embryos. [[TABLE]] Because sds mutant meiosis appeared to have random chromosome segregation at meiosis I, we suspected that seeds from sds plants might carry an abnormal number of chromosomes, which could cause visible developmental defects. When the seeds from sds plants were germinated on plates and examined under the dissecting microscope, we found that a considerable fraction of seedlings (53 out of a total of 124) showed abnormal development (FIG-REF). Unlike normal seedlings with two similarly sized cotyledons (FIG-REF), seedlings from the seeds of sds mutant plants had three cotyledons (two seedlings, see FIG-REF and FIG-REF), two uneven cotyledons (six, FIG-REF), one cotyledon (four, FIG-REF), one cotyledon and no hypocotyl (one, FIG-REF) or had root defects (40, data not shown). The seedling defects were similar to those of the Atdmc1 mutant seedlings (CITATION). Because sds seedlings from sds/+ heterozygous plants never showed any developmental defects prior to meiosis, the abnormal development of progeny of sds plants was unlikely to be caused directly by the sds mutation. [[FIGURE]] To test directly the hypothesis that the abnormal seedlings were aneuploid, we then determined the number of chromosomes in wild‐type seedlings and the progeny of sds plants. As expected, all 13 wild‐type seedlings examined had 10 chromosomes. On the other hand, when 13 normal‐appearing progeny of sds were examined, one had 11 chromosomes and another had nine chromosomes, whereas the others had 10. Even more strikingly, when 13 sds seedlings with abnormal development were tested, only one had 10 chromosomes; the remaining 12 seedlings had the following numbers of chromosomes: nine (four seedlings), 11 (two seedlings), 12 (one seedling), 13 (three seedlings) and 15 (two seedlings). Therefore, progeny of sds plants were often aneuploid, presumably due to abnormal chromosome segregation at meiosis in sds plants. The Ds element in sds carries an NPT (neomycin phosphotransferase) gene conferring kanamycin resistance (CITATION), which co‐segregated with the sds mutant phenotype. If the Ds element was indeed inserted into the SDS gene, excision of the Ds element would produce normal‐appearing revertant sectors. We screened among sds mutant plants carrying an Ac element and found that nine of 13 sds plants produced phenotypically normal revertant sectors. The flowers of one large sector (FIG-REF) produced normal pollen (data not shown); this ruled out the possibility that the seeds of the revertant sector were due to contaminating pollen. Seeds of three revertant sectors were planted, and each segregated for mutant plants; therefore, the fertile plant sectors were heterozygous, consistent with an excision of the Ds element from one of the two alleles. These results strongly support the idea that the sds mutation was caused by a Ds insertion. The genomic sequences flanking the Ds element were obtained using thermal asymmetric inter‐laced PCR (TAIL‐PCR; CITATION) and shared the same 8 bp immediately adjacent to the Ds sequence, consistent with the 8 bp duplication characteristic of Ds insertions (FIG-REF). Using primers matching genomic sequences flanking the Ds element, we amplified a PCR fragment of the expected size from wild‐type and revertant genomic DNAs, but not from mutant DNAs (data not shown). We analyzed the sequences of the PCR fragment from seven revertants, and found that four had wild‐type sequences, while the other three had 6 or 9 bp insertions (Ds excision footprints) which did not disrupt the open reading frame (FIG-REF). These results confirm that we have identified the genomic insertion that is responsible for the sds mutant phenotype, and that the insertion most probably disrupts a protein‐coding region. [[FIGURE]] Using the SDS genomic sequence as a probe, we isolated a 2.1 kb cDNA clone after screening ∼1 × 106 plaques of a floral cDNA library (CITATION). The SDS sequence also matches a sequenced bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clone (F10B6; accession No. AC006917) ∼20 cM from the distal end of the left arm of chromosome 1. Comparison between the SDS genomic and cDNA sequences indicates that there are seven exons and six introns (FIG-REF). The exons are 1117, 168, 167, 129, 181, 45 and 294 bp, and the introns are 189, 249, 297, 88, 93 and 96 bp. It should be noted that the SDS cDNA sequence differs from the exon sequence of the predicted gene (gene ID At1g14750) from the genomic sequence in two places: the actual introns 2 and 6 were longer at the 3′ and 5′ ends by 51 and 57 nucleotides, respectively. The additional 17 and 19 amino acid residues, respectively, encoded by the additional predicted exon sequences would have interrupted the cyclin core of the SDS protein (see below). The predicted SDS protein contains 578 amino acids (FIG-REF). The C‐terminal one‐third of SDS is similar to the cyclin core region of several known Arabidopsis cyclins (FIG-REF). Like other cyclins, its N‐terminal region contains a putative ‘destruction box’ motif with a conserved element and several lysine residues (FIG-REF; CITATION). Most of the SDS N‐terminal region consists of several putative PEST elements, rich in proline (P), glutamate (E) or aspartate (D), serine (S) and threonine (T) residues (CITATION) (FIG-REF). These PEST elements may play a role in targeting SDS for proteolytic degradation. In addition, the SDS protein contains several potential sites for phosphorylation by CDKs. [[FIGURE]] Some cyclins, such as the yeast G1 cyclins Cln1, ‐2 and ‐3, have the cyclin core region near their N‐termini (CITATION; CITATION). In plants, previously known cyclins have been classified based on amino acid sequence similarity in the cyclin core into three types, A, B and D, which are grouped further into subtypes (CITATION). Among these known plant cyclins, D‐type cyclins also contain a cyclin core near their N‐termini (FIG-REF). In contrast, in plant A‐ and B‐type cyclins, the cyclin core is located near the C‐terminus (FIG-REF). Therefore, the location of the cyclin core in the SDS protein is similar to those of plant A‐ and B‐type cyclins, although the SDS N‐terminal region is unusually large. Within the cyclin core, members of the same type share ≥49% amino acid sequence similarity and those of the same subtype can share 68–97% identity; however, levels of amino acid sequence identity between different types are only 20–39% (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Because the putative SDS cyclin core has 23–32% identity to known cyclins, we hypothesize that SDS is a new type of cyclin. [[FIGURE]] As a first test for the hypothesis that SDS is a new type of cyclin, we investigated whether SDS can interact with known Arabidopsis CDKs Cdc2a and Cdc2b (CITATION), using the yeast two‐hybrid assay (CITATION). A portion of the SDS coding region containing the cyclin homology was fused with the coding region for the GAL4 DNA‐binding domain to yield the bait construct (FIG-REF). The Cdc2a and Cdc2b coding regions were each fused with that for the GAL4 transcriptional activation domain to produce the prey constructs. The bait and prey constructs were introduced into α or a mating‐type yeast strains, respectively, and were brought together by yeast mating. The yeast cells carry a HIS3 reporter gene that is transcriptionally controlled by GAL4 and that allows cells to grow on media lacking histidine. If a bait and a prey interact to a sufficient level, then the activation of the HIS3 reporter gene will support yeast growth without histidine. As shown in FIG-REF, SDS was able to allow yeast cells to grow without histidine in the presence of Cdc2a or Cdc2b, supporting the hypothesis that SDS can interact with these CDKs. To obtain additional clues about how SDS functions, we analyzed the expression of the SDS gene. The SDS cDNA clone was very rare; in addition, Northern hybridizations detected only very faint signals in floral bud RNA samples (data not shown). Because the sds mutant had only fertility defects, we first examined SDS expression in developing wild‐type Arabidopsis flowers, particularly at stages near meiosis, by RNA in situ hybridization (FIG-REF). SDS expression was not detectable in the inflorescence meristem or in very early floral primordia (data not shown). Similarly, no SDS expression was found in a stage 8 developing flower (FIG-REF, as defined previously by CITATION), when anther differentiation had begun but meiosis had not occurred. At about stage 9 (FIG-REF), or the time of male meiosis, we observed a strong SDS signal that was restricted to the male meiocytes (arrows) within the anther locules, but not in other tissues of the anther or in other floral organs. At stage 11 (FIG-REF), when pollen development was progressing, again there was no detectable SDS expression. A sense probe control produced only background levels of signals (data not shown). Therefore, our results strongly suggest that in the anther, SDS is expressed specifically in male meiotic cells. [[FIGURE]] Because SDS was also needed for normal female meiosis, we also tested its expression in female meiocytes. Unlike male meiocytes which are in groups, individual female meiocytes are surrounded by somatic cells. Because RNA in situ hybridization using radiolabeled probes does not have high enough resolution to pinpoint accurately expression in a single cell, we switched to using non‐radioactive probes for detecting SDS expression in the female meiocyte. As shown in FIG-REF, the female meiocyte (arrow) clearly expressed SDS, whereas control sense probe (FIG-REF) showed only background. The somatic cells in the ovule did not have SDS signal (FIG-REF); further, other tissues of the female reproductive organ also lacked SDS signals (data not shown). Therefore, in the female reproductive organ, SDS is expressed specifically in the female meiocyte. To test whether SDS was expressed in other organs at low levels, we performed RT–PCR experiments with RNA samples isolated from roots, leaves, floral stems, young inflorescences, older floral buds, open flowers and young fruits (seedpods). Our results (FIG-REF, top panel) indicate that SDS was expressed preferentially in young floral buds, but not in older buds, mature flowers or vegetative organs. As a negative control, we found that SDS expression was not detectable in floral buds and flowers of the sds mutant (FIG-REF). Moreover, as a positive control for mRNA and RT–PCR, we tested for the presence of mRNA from the non‐specific ASK1 gene (CITATION) in the same RNA samples; our results confirmed that ASK1 mRNA was present in all organs tested (FIG-REF, bottom panel). Therefore, our results strongly suggest that SDS is expressed in a highly specific manner, both spatially and temporally.
!~MM~! Both the wild‐type and the sds mutant plants were of the Landsberg erecta ecotype and were grown under long day conditions at 22–25°C unless otherwise indicated. Ds insertional lines were generated following crosses between homozygous Ds‐carrying plants and homozygous Ac‐carrying plants (CITATION; CITATION). One Ds line was found to segregate for mutant plants that showed a severe reduction in fertility and was chosen for further analysis. F2 progeny from crosses by pollinating sds pistils with normal pollen were grown to maturity and scored for fertility defects. The seeds of sds plants were germinated on MS plates and the developmental phenotypes of the seedlings were examined after 8 days. Some of these seedlings were grown to maturity to determine fertility. To screen for revertant sectors, F2 progeny of the original Ds × Ac cross were grown to maturity and sds mutant plants were retained. A majority (∼3/4) of these sds plants should also carry the Ac element, and Ds excision would produce a revertant sector. Because stable sds mutant plants never produced large seedpods with a full seed set, putative revertant sectors were identified as either a normal branch with multiple large seedpods or a single large seedpod. Seeds from these putative revertant sectors were planted and grown to maturity. DNAs were isolated from the phenotypically normal plants for further analysis. For one large sector of a branch, flowers were examined using a dissecting microscope and were found to have normal pollen. Fresh plant samples were either photographed and the photographs then scanned to yield digital images or were photographed using a dissecting microscope and an Optronics digital camera. Anthers prior to dehiscence were stained (CITATION) to distinguish viable and dead pollen grains. Developing microspores and meiotic products from fresh floral buds were stained using an aqueous solution of toluidine blue (0.05%). Chromosome spreads were prepared as described by CITATION and stained with 5 μl of DAPI (1 μg/ml). Digital images were obtained by using the Optronics camera mounted on a Nikon fluorescence microscope. Female meiosis was analyzed essentially according to CITATION, using floral buds at stages 10–11 (CITATION). Karyotyping was performed on mitotic images essentially as described previously (CITATION), using root tips from 4‐day‐old seedlings. For recombinational studies, plants were generated that had the appropriate genotypes with respect to both the SDS gene and molecular markers for detecting recombination. First sds/+ (Ler) was crossed with the Columbia (Col) ecotype to introduce the sds mutation into a different ecotype so that we could use molecular markers to detect recombinational events. We identified the desired F1 plants from such crosses using kanamycin resistance and screened the F2 generation by PCR for sds/+ plants that were homologous for the Col allele at both of two microsatellite markers (CITATION) on either chromosome II or V. The chromosome II markers were nga1126 and AthBIO26, and the chromosome V markers were nga76 and nga106 (http://genome.salk.edu/SSLP_info/SSLPsordered.html). These F2 plants were then crossed with our original sds/+ (Ler) plants to yield both sds/sds mutant plants (experimental) and sds/+ or +/+ normal plants (control); all of these plants were heterozygous (L1L2/C1C2) for two molecular markers on either chromosome II or V. The experimental and control plants were grown to maturity. Their seeds were then germinated on MS plates and DNAs were isolated from the seedlings and used for genotyping by PCR using the primers for the two markers on the relevant chromosome. Genomic DNA was isolated as described previously (CITATION). To isolate the SDS gene, we obtained ∼0.8 and 0.6 kb genomic fragments (data not shown) from the 5′ and 3′ ends of the Ds element, respectively, using the TAIL‐PCR procedure (CITATION). TAIL‐PCRs were performed using Ds‐specific primers (Ds3‐1, Ds3‐2, Ds‐3‐3, D5‐1, Ds5‐2 and Ds5‐3; CITATION) and arbitrary degenerate primers (AD2 and AD4; CITATION). The SDS‐specific primers were designed based on the sequence information of the TAIL‐PCR products: oMC257, 5′‐CGAAATTTCGAATCACCAAT‐3′; oMC258, 5′‐TAGTTTCAAGCTTTCGTACG‐3′; oMC273, 5′‐CGCAGATGCATAAATTCAAACG‐3′; and oMC274, 5′‐TGGGAATCGTGGATCTACAG‐3′. To isolate the SDS cDNA, a probe was generated by PCR using the oMC257 and oMC273 primers and Arabidopsis genomic DNA and used to hybridize with a floral cDNA library (CITATION). Approximately 1 × 106 plaques were screened and one positive clone was obtained that contained a 2.1 kb insert; it was designated as pMC2311. RT–PCR was performed using 10 μg of total RNAs from roots, stems, leaves, open flowers, mature buds (larger than ∼1.5 mm), young buds (<1 mm), sds open flowers, sds mature buds and sds young buds. The RNAs were treated with RNase‐free DNase I (Roche) followed by inactivation of the DNase I. The RNAs were then used for reverse transcription and the resulting cDNAs were used as template for PCRs. The SDS gene‐specific primers used for the RT–PCRs were oMC299 (5′‐GGAGCTTGAGATAGTCGGAT‐3′) and oMC310 (5′‐GTATGAGCGACACAAATGGTGGCAC‐3′). As a control, the same cDNAs were used to amplify the ASK1 gene using the oMC221 and oMC222 primers (CITATION). The PCR products were hybridized with SDS‐specific or ASK1‐specific probes, respectively. In situ RNA hybridization experiments were performed as described previously (CITATION) using probes generated as follows. A 619 bp EcoRI–XhoI fragment from the SDS cDNA in pMC2311 was subcloned into pGEM7Zf(+), and the resultant clone was named as pMC2317. pMC2317 was digested with XhoI or EcoRI and used for transcription with SP6 or T7 RNA polymerases, respectively, to generate sense or antisense RNA probes. For expression in the female reproductive organ, non‐radioactive digioxiginin‐labeled probes were synthesized from the same templates as for the radioactive probes, using a Riboprobe transcription system (Promega, Madison, WI) in vitro RNA synthesis kit. The yeast two‐hybrid assay (CITATION) was performed to test for interaction between SDS and Arabidopsis CDKs Cdc2a and Cdc2b (CITATION). A plasmid construct expressing a fusion of the SDS protein with the GAL4 DNA‐binding domain (bait, FIG-REF) and fusions of Cdc2a or Cdc2b proteins with the GAL4 transcriptional activation domain (prey) were created by homologous recombination in yeast (CITATION). Briefly, to create the expected construct, yeast cells were transformed with a linearized vector plasmid and a DNA fragment with the desired insert and ends that were homologous to the vector. The linearized plasmid was derived from the pAS1‐CYH2 vector (CITATION) by SmaI and NcoI digestion, and the insert DNA fragments were obtained by PCR using cDNA templates and gene‐specific primers. The SDS bait construct contains a portion of SDS with the cyclin core homologous region, using primers oMC544 (5′‐TACGCTAGCTTGGGTGGTCATATGGCCATGGAGCTTGAGATAGTCGGATGC‐3′) and oMC545 (5′‐ATTAGCTTGGCTGCAGGTCGACGG ATCCCCTATTCTTTTTAAGAATATGAG‐3′). For a positive control, the Arabidopsis cyclin cycB1.1 coding region (CITATION; CITATION) was amplified using primers oMC546 (5′‐TACGCTAGCTTGGGTGGTCATATGGCCATGATGATGACTTCTCGTTCGATT‐3′) and oMC547 (5′‐ATTAGCTTGGCTGCAGGTCGACGGATCCCCCTAAGCAGATTCAGTTCCGGT‐3′). The bait construct for a fusion between GAL4 and the p53 protein was used as a negative control (CITATION). Two prey constructs were created similarly using Cdc2a and Cdc2b PCR fragments and the pAD‐GAL4 vector. For Cdc2a, the primers oMC323, 5′‐GAAGATACCCCACCAAACCCAAAAAAAGAGATGGATCAGTACGAGAAAGTT‐3′, and oMC324, 5′‐TGCGGGGTTTTTCAGTATCTACGATTCATACTAAGGCATGCCTCCAAGATC‐3′) were used. For Cdc2b, primers oMC548, 5′‐CCACCAAACCCAAAAAAAGAGATCGAATTCATGGAGAAGTACGAGAAGCTAG‐3′ and oMC549, 5′‐CTCTGCAGTAATACGACTCACTATAGGGCTTCAGAACTGAGACTTGTCAAG‐3′ were used. These PCR fragments were co‐transformed with the pAD‐GAL4 plasmid linearized by digestion with SmaI and EcoRI. The bait constructs were introduced individually into the Y187 yeast strain (MATα; CITATION) by selecting for transformants on plates lacking tryptophan. Similarly, the prey constructs were transformed into the PJ69‐4A strain (MATa; CITATION) with selection for growth without leucine. The bait strains and prey strains were mated pair‐wise to form diploids that contain one of the baits and one of the preys. Diploid cells were selected on plates lacking both tryptophan and leucine, and then tested for growth on plates without tryptophan, leucine and histidine.
