!~ABS~! 3-Methylcrotonyl-coenzyme A carboxylase (MCCase) is a nuclear-encoded, mitochondrial biotin-containing enzyme composed of two types of subunits: the biotinylated MCC-A subunit (encoded by the gene At1g03090) and the non-biotinylated MCC-B subunit (encoded by the gene At4g34030). The major metabolic role of MCCase is in the mitochondrial catabolism of leucine, and it also might function in the catabolism of isoprenoids and the mevalonate shunt. In the work presented herein, the single-copy gene encoding the Arabidopsis MCC-A subunit was isolated and characterized. It contains 15 exons separated by 14 introns. We examined the expression of the single-copy MCC-Aand MCC-B genes in Arabidopsis by monitoring the accumulation of the two protein and mRNA products. In addition, the expression of these two genes was studied in transgenic plants containing the 1.1- and 1.0-kb 5′ upstream sequences of the two MCCase subunit genes, respectively, fused to the β-glucuronidase gene. Light deprivation induces MCCase expression, which is suppressed by exogenous carbohydrates, especially sucrose. Several lines of evidence indicate that the suppressor of MCCase expression is synthesized in illuminated photosynthetic organs, and can be translocated to other organs to regulate MCCase expression. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the suppressor of MCCase expression is a carbohydrate, perhaps sucrose or a carbohydrate metabolite. We conclude that MCCase expression is primarily controlled at the level of gene transcription and regulated by a complex interplay between environmental and metabolic signals. The observed expression patterns may indicate that one of the physiological roles of MCCase is to maintain the carbon status of the organism, possibly via the catabolism of leucine.
!~RES~! The MCC-A gene was isolated from an Arabidopsis genomic library and its complete sequence was determined. The structure of theMCC-A gene was identified by comparing the sequence with the corresponding cDNA (CITATION). The transcribed region of theMCC-A gene spans 6,165 bp of genomic sequence and consists of 15 exons separated by 14 introns (Fig.1A). The promoter region contains an apparent TATA box motif between position −243 and −236 (TTAATAAA). All but one exon/intron junction displays the canonical 5′-GT-intron-AG-3′ sequence. The only exception to this rule is the 3′ end of intron 12, which has the sequence 5′-GT-intron-GG-3′. This gene structure differs from that predicted by the Arabidopsis genome sequence deposited at GenBank (accession no. NC_003070). Namely, annotation of Arabidopsis genome sequence fails to identify the last exon of the MCC-A gene, which primarily codes for the 3′-untranslated region. Furthermore, the full-length cDNA (accession no. AY070723, deposited at GenBank by the RIKEN Genomic Sciences Center) contains a 62-nucleotide segment that is absent from the MCC-A cDNA we reported previously (GenBank accession no. U12536; CITATION). This extra sequence in the AY070723cDNA is predicted to be part of intron 5, as predicted by the Arabidopsis genome sequence and substantiated by the sequence of U12536cDNA. These results may indicate that the MCC-A gene can undergo alternative splicing to generate mRNAs that are the products of 16 or 15 exons. We previously reported the occurrence of incompletely spliced MCC-A mRNAs in tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum; CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] As a first step to investigate the light-mediated regulation of MCCase expression, we examined the effect of illumination on MCCase activity. Arabidopsis seeds were germinated under continuous illumination and at various time points over the next 6 d, a subset of the growing seedlings were removed from illumination. As shown in Figure 2A, over a 4-d period, dark treatment gradually induces MCCase activity by about 10-fold.  [[FIGURE]] To investigate the mechanism of the dark induction of MCCase activity, the accumulation of the MCC-A and MCC-B subunits was determined by western-blot analyses. Aliquots of extracts containing equal amounts of protein were fractionated by SDS-PAGE, followed by western-blot analysis with antisera specific for the MCC-A and MCC-B subunits. These analyses (Fig. 2B) demonstrate that the accumulation of both MCC-A and MCC-B proteins increases in response to darkness in parallel with the increase in MCCase activity. To ascertain whether the induction of MCC-A and MCC-B subunit accumulation is mediated by changes in the accumulation of the corresponding mRNAs, we determined the abundance of the respective mRNAs in the tissues collected from the same experiments. As shown in Figure 2C, the accumulation ofMCC-A and MCC-B mRNAs was induced in tissues deprived of illumination, in parallel with the increases in the accumulation of these two subunits. These data indicate that, in response to darkness, MCCase expression is up-regulated, possibly at the level of gene transcription. To evaluate whether the enhanced expression of MCCase in response to darkness is due to elevated transcription of the MCC-A andMCC-B genes, we conducted experiments in which the level of MCC-A promoter or MCC-B promoter-driven β-glucuronidase (GUS) expression was determined. Specifically, we generated two sets of transgenic Arabidopsis lines, each of which carried either an MCC-A:GUS or an MCC-B:GUStransgene (Fig. 1, B and C). As shown in Figure3A, MCC-A-mediatedGUS expression is induced about 3-fold after 24 h of light deprivation, and increases to a 10-fold induction after 4 d of light deprivation. Near-identical kinetics of dark-mediated induction of the MCC-B:GUS transgene were also observed in parallel experiments (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] In situ staining of GUS activity in these seedlings indicated that the darkness-induced enhancement of MCC-A- andMCC-B-directed GUS expression occurred throughout the entire seedlings, including the cotyledons, leaves, hypocotyls, and roots (Fig. 3B). These results suggest that the sequences between −1,150 and −12 of the MCC-A gene and −1,110 and −64 of the MCC-B gene are sufficient to confer light-regulated expression to the GUS reporter gene. Furthermore, these results indicate that light-mediated induction ofMCC-A and MCC-B gene expression is at least partially regulated by changes in the transcription of the respective genes. Sugars, particularly Suc, the major translocated sugar, have been recognized as regulatory molecules that can control gene expression (for review, see CITATION). To determine if sugars interact with the light-mediated changes in MCCase expression, GUS expression was studied in MCC-A:GUS and MCC-B:GUS transgenic plants grown in the presence of different concentrations of Suc either in continuous illumination or after transfer to darkness. As shown in Figures 4A and 5A, Suc suppresses MCC-Aand MCC-B promoter-mediated GUS expression, especially in seedlings transferred into darkness. Histochemical staining of MCC-A:GUS expression in seedlings grown on different concentrations of Suc showed that at low concentrations of Suc, suppression is confined to the roots and that as the exogenous Suc concentration is raised, MCC-A expression is suppressed in the hypocotyls, shoot meristem, and young leaves (Fig. 4B).  [[FIGURE]] In these experiments, we noted that growth of the seedlings is inhibited by the presence of higher concentrations of Suc (>3%; Fig.4B). This is probably due to the osmotic effect of the sugar. To investigate whether suppression of MCC-A:GUS andMCC-B:GUS expression is due directly to Suc, rather than the increased osmotic pressure of the medium, we measured the effect of sorbitol (a non-metabolizable alditol) on the expression of these transgenes. Although the presence of sorbitol increases the osmotic pressure of the medium and inhibits the growth of Arabidopsis seedlings (data not shown), it has the opposite effect from Suc onMCC-A- and MCC-B-mediated GUSexpression (Figs. 4C and 5A). Namely, increasing the concentration of sorbitol slightly increases MCC-A:GUS andMCC-B:GUS expression. These results indicate that the suppression of MCC-A- and MCC-B-directedGUS expression by Suc is not caused by the osmotic effect of the sugar, but rather is due to either the direct effect of Suc or some metabolite derived from Suc.  [[FIGURE]] We also determined the metabolic regulation of MCC-A andMCC-B gene expression by Glc, Fru, Gal, and Xyl (Figs. 4D and 5A). As with Suc, all these sugars suppress the dark-mediated induction of MCC-A:GUS and MCC-B:GUStransgenes. To determine the relationship between light intensity and MCCase expression, we measured MCC-A- and MCC-B-mediated GUS expression in 8-d-old seedlings that had been grown at normal light levels (150 μmol m−2s−1) for 6 d, and then transferred to different light levels for the last 2 d of growth. A gradient of light intensity was established by placing samples at different distances from the light source. The results shown in Figure6 demonstrate that expression ofMCC-A:GUS and MCC-B:GUS is inversely related to irradiation. A fluence rate of 30 μmol m−2s−1 inhibits expression to about 50% of that found in total darkness.  [[FIGURE]] The data presented above indicate that there is an interaction between the illumination status of the plant and sugar levels in regulating MCC-A and MCC-B gene expression in photosynthetic organs. As shown in Figure7, the illumination status of the plant not only affects MCCase expression in the organs that directly sensed the light (i.e. leaves), but also modulates MCCase expression in roots, an organ that cannot directly sense the illumination status. Specifically, in this experiment MCCase activity was determined in extracts from roots and leaves isolated from identical plants that had been grown in soil for 21 d either under constant illumination or from plants that were deprived of illumination for the last 2 d of growth. As previously reported for tomato (CITATION) and pea (Pisum sativum; CITATION), MCCase activity is 3- to 4-fold higher in roots than in leaves. The interesting observation made herein is that MCCase activity is induced by a factor of 6- to 8-fold in both leaves and roots of plants from which light is withheld (Fig. 7A).  [[FIGURE]] To further delineate the mechanism of MCCase induction in roots of light-deprived plants, we determined MCC-A andMCC-B promoter-mediated GUS expression in transgenic plants treated as in the experiment shown in Figure 7A. GUS expression was induced by a factor of 5- to 7-fold in roots of these light-deprived transgenic plants (Fig. 7, B and C). These findings indicate that the induction of MCCase expression in roots in response to light deprivation of the seedlings is mediated at the level of gene transcription. Furthermore, these results indicate that leaves communicate their illumination status to the roots and affectMCC-A and MCC-B gene transcription. One model to explain these findings is that illuminated leaves produce a mobile signal molecule (possibly Suc or some Suc-derived metabolite), which affects the suppression of MCC-A and MCC-B gene expression. Thus, when plants are placed in the dark, the concentration of the suppressor signaling molecule declines, leading to the induction of MCCase expression in both leaves and roots. To further develop this hypothesis, we conducted two analogous sets of experiments in which illumination was withheld from a subset of the leaves of 21-d-old Arabidopsis rosettes. In one set of experiments, a single leaf of the second pair of emerged leaves was selectively deprived of illumination, whereas the other leaves were continuously illuminated. In the other experiments, illumination was withheld from all but one of the second pair of emerged leaves. In both experiments,MCC-A- and MCC-B-driven GUS activity was determined in the illuminated and nonilluminated leaves. As shown in Figure 8, A and B, MCC-A:GUSand MCC-B:GUS activity was higher in the leaves from which light was selectively withheld than in the illuminated leaves. However, in both cases, these increases in GUS activity were not as high as in those seedlings in which light was completely deprived from the entire seedling. These data are consistent with the mobile suppressor model outlined above. Namely, the shaded leaf or leaves cease to produce theMCC-A and MCC-B suppressor and thus GUS activities are induced in these leaves. However, because the illuminated leaf or leaves continue to synthesize the suppressor and it is translocated to the shaded leaf or leaves, MCC-A- andMCC-B-mediated GUS activities are not fully induced.  [[FIGURE]] To begin the process of identifying the mobile molecular signal that suppresses MCCase expression, we grew Arabidopsis seedlings in a CO2-free atmosphere, but under constant illumination, and examined the effect on the expression of MCCase. As shown in Figure 9, A and B, MCCase activity and accumulation of the MCC-A and MCC-B subunits were induced 8- to 9-fold 2 d after transfer of seedlings to a CO2-free atmosphere. The provision of exogenous Suc in the growth medium suppressed the induction of MCCase activity and accumulation of its subunits.  [[FIGURE]] In experiments identical to those shown in Figure 9, A and B,MCC-A and MCC-B promoter-mediatedGUS expression was determined in 8-d-old transgenic seedlings which were grown in a CO2-free air atmosphere for the last 2 d of growth. As shown in Figure 9, C and D, in the absence of atmospheric CO2,MCC-A and MCC-B promoter-mediated GUSexpression increased 10- and 11-fold, respectively. As with the induction of MCCase activity and accumulation of the MCCase subunits, the induction of MCC-A- and MCC-B-mediatedGUS expressions in response to a CO2deprivation was reversed by the inclusion of Suc in the growth medium (Fig. 9, C and D). Namely, in the presence of exogenous Suc,MCC-A:GUS and MCC-B:GUS expression is not induced by the CO2-free atmosphere. We utilized this experimental system as a convenient means of identifying whether other biochemicals could substitute for Suc and act as suppressors of the induction process. We found that at equal molar concentrations, Glc, Fru, Gal, and Xyl were also able to suppress the CO2-free atmosphere induction ofMCC-A- and MCC-B-mediated GUSexpressions. However, these monosaccharides were not as strong suppressors as Suc (Fig. 9, C and D). To ensure that the effects of these sugars on MCCase expression were not due to an osmotic stress of the tissue, sorbitol was also tested. Sorbitol had no effect on the CO2-free atmosphere induction ofMCC-A:GUS and MCC-B:GUS expression. Interestingly, if the 2-d CO2-free atmospheric treatment is conducted in darkness, MCC-A- andMCC-B-mediated GUS activities are still induced, and exogenous Suc suppresses this induction (Fig. 9, C and D), although this effect is not as strong as when conducted on illuminated plants. The data presented above indicate that illuminated leaves produce a suppressor of MCCase expression and that this signaling molecule is mobile and can suppress MCCase expression at a distance. To further test the hypothesis that this suppressor may be Suc, or a metabolite of Suc, we adapted a detached root system for testing the ability of various sugars to act as suppressors of MCCase induction. Specifically, roots were detached at the hypocotyl-root intersection from sterilely grown 14-d-old seedlings. Intact seedlings and the detached roots were separately maintained in culture media in the absence or presence of a variety of sugars and Glc analogs. Two days later, MCCase expression was determined in extracts from the roots. As shown in Figure 10, A and B, in the absence of any exogenous sugars, MCCase activity and accumulation of the MCC-A and MCC-B subunits is induced about 2.5-fold in detached roots as compared with roots attached to the aerial organs of the seedlings. The addition of Suc to the medium in which detached roots were maintained suppressed this induction of MCCase activity (Fig. 10A) and accumulation of the two MCCase subunits (Fig. 10B).  [[FIGURE]] To further elucidate the mechanism by which MCCase expression is induced in detached roots, we studied MCC-A andMCC-B promoter-mediated GUS expressions in such organs. As shown in Figure 10, C and D, MCC-A- andMCC-B-mediated GUS expression is 4-fold higher in detached roots than in roots of intact seedlings. Incubating the detached roots in presence of Suc reversed this induction. These findings indicate that the alterations in MCCase expression in detached roots are primarily the result of changes in the transcription of theMCC-A and MCC-B genes. These experiments also provide evidence that Suc, or some metabolite of Suc, may be the molecule that is translocated from the aerial portion of the seedling and suppresses MCCase gene transcription in the root. To gain insights as to whether Suc or a metabolite of Suc is the suppressor of MCCase transcription, we used this detached root system to test the ability of various sugars and Glc analogs to suppress MCCase gene transcription. Of the molecules tested, sorbitol and 3-O-methyl-Glc had no suppressing activity onMCC-A:GUS (Fig. 10C) and MCC-B:GUS (Fig. 10D) expression. However, Glc, Fru, Gal, Xyl, and 2-deoxy-Glc were all capable of suppressing MCCase gene transcription in these detached roots (Figs. 10, C and D). Because the non-metabolizable sugar analogs, sorbitol and 3-O-methyl-Glc, do not affect MCCase expression, whereas Glc, Fru, Gal, Xyl, and 2-deoxy-Glc, which are all metabolizable or can be metabolically derived from Suc, do affect MCCase expression, these results cannot clearly distinguish whether Suc or a metabolite of Suc is the MCCase-suppressing molecule.
!~MM~! An Arabidopsis genomic library, cloned in the bacteriophage vector λ FIX (CITATION), was obtained from the Biological Resource Center (Ohio State University, Columbus). The library was screened by hybridization with the Arabidopsis MCC-AcDNA (CITATION). Hybridizing clones were isolated by plaque purification. Isolation and purification of bacteriophage DNA was conducted using standard methods (CITATION). DNA manipulation and subcloning of DNA fragments into pBluescript KS (pBKS; Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) was carried out according to standard procedures (CITATION). TheMCC-A gene was isolated as a single λ-clone. Two adjoining SacI fragments were subcloned intopBKS and named pBP4 andpBP5. The junction of pBP4 andpBP5 was amplified by PCR using λ-DNA containingMCC-A genomic DNA as the template. This amplified fragment was sequenced, which verified that pBP4 andpBP5 carried adjoining Arabidopsis genomic fragments. The nucleotide sequence of both strands of all plasmid clones was determined using an Applied Biosystem 373A Automated DNA Sequencer (DNA Sequencing Facility, Iowa State University, Ames). DNA sequences were analyzed using the GCG suite of sequence analysis software (University of Wisconsin Genetics Computer Group, Madison, WI). A Sau3AI fragment of pBP4, which contains the 5′ end of the MCC-A gene from positions −1,150 to −12, was subcloned into the BamHI site ofpBKS. The resulting plasmid, termed pBP6, was digested at the flanking HindIII andXbaI sites, and the MCC-A promoter fragment was subcloned into the Ti-based plant transformation vector,pBI101.2 (CLONTECH, Palo Alto, CA). The resulting plasmid (pBP8) carried the MCC-A:GUSchimeric gene (Fig. 1B). The promoter of the MCC-B gene was excised from the plasmid, pMAGP (CITATION) as a 1.2-kb XhoI-XmnI fragment and subcloned into the XhoI and SmaI sites ofpBKS (pBP15). This promoter fragment was PCR amplified with the vector-associated T3 primer and the mutagenic primer of sequence, 3′-CTGTTAGTTCATCAGATCT AGT-5′ (A and T were added to create an XbaI site, which is underlined). The resulting PCR product was digested withXhoI and XbaI, and cloned into theSalI and XbaI sites of pBI101.2. In the resulting plasmid (pBP18), the MCC-B promoter (from −1,110 to −64 relative to the ATG translation start site) was fused with GUS reporter gene (Fig. 1C). The plant transformation vectors, pBP8 and pBP18, were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1 by electroporation. Transformation of Arabidopsis was done as described byCITATION, but without applying a vacuum. Primary transgenic plants (T1 generation) were selected by germinating seeds on Murashige and Skoog medium (Gibco-BRL, Cleveland) containing 0.8% (w/v) Bacto-agar, 0.05% (w/v) MES (pH 5.7), 40 mg L−1 kanamycin, 250 mg L−1vancomycin, and 1% (w/v) Suc. For each transgene construct, 20 independent transgenic lines were generated. T2 seeds obtained from these 20 primary transformants were grown on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 40 mg L−1 kanamycin and scored for resistance to the antibiotic. For each transgenic line, six kanamycin-resistant plants were transferred to soil and T3 seeds were harvested. Ten independent transgenic plants were finally identified as being homozygous for the transgene on the basis of the segregation of the kanamycin resistance trait. The transgenic nature of the kanamycin-resistant plants was further confirmed by Southern-blot analysis (data not shown). For the analysis of transgenic lines, 10 MCC-A:GUS and 10 MCC-B:GUS independent lines were generated and each was propagated to the T3 generation and confirmed to be homozygous for the transgenes. All these lines showed a very similar histochemical staining pattern for GUS activity when grown in a variety of growth conditions. Three lines for each transgene were selected for detailed fluorometric assays of GUS activity. Arabidopsis seeds of the Columbia ecotype were germinated in sterile soil or Murashige and Skoog media, and plants were grown in a growth room maintained at 22°C under 24-h, continuous illumination provided by 40-W cold-white fluorescent light bulbs (Sylvania, Danvers, MA) at white-light irradiation of 150 μmol m−2s−1. In experiments in which plants were grown under different fluence rates of illumination, seedlings were grown at different distances from the light source. In all cases, fluence rate was measured with an L1–1800 spectroradiometer (LI-COR, Lincoln, NE). Seeds (T2 or T3 generation transgenic plants that are homozygous for the transgene) were surface sterilized by treatment with 50% (v/v) ethanol for 1 min, followed by a 20-min treatment with 50% (v/v) bleach in 1% (v/v) Tween 20. After extensive washing with sterile water, approximately 40 seeds were applied to each petri dish, and plates were sealed with parafilm or gas-permeable surgical tape. In some experiments, the Murashige and Skoog media also contained different concentrations of sugars. Seedlings were grown under constant illumination (150 μmol m−2s−1) or in complete darkness at 22°C. Day 0 was defined as the time when seeds were sown. Sterile excised plant organs were maintained in petri dishes containing sterile Murashige and Skoog liquid medium with different concentration of sugars and Glc analogs for 24 h in continuous illumination at 22°C. RNA was isolated from whole-plant tissue by the method ofCITATION. Twenty micrograms of each RNA sample was subjected to electrophoresis in a 1.4% (v/v) agarose gel that contained formaldehyde. The RNA was blotted to a nylon membrane by capillary transfer using 25 mm sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0. To ensure equal loading of RNA, ethidium bromide was included in the RNA-loading buffer, and blots were viewed under UV illumination. After transfer, RNA was bonded to the membrane by baking at 90°C for 60 min. The filter was hybridized with 32P-labeled MCC-A (CITATION) and MCC-B (CITATION) cDNA fragments that have been described previously. The blots were washed once with 1× SSC, 0.1% (w/v) SDS at 60°C for 15 min followed by 0.25× SSC, 0.1% (w/v) SDS at 60°C for another 30 min. Arabidopsis seedling tissue (0.1 g) was frozen with liquid N2 and homogenized with an “Eppendorf pestle” (Eppendorf Scientific, Westbury, NY) in a 1.5-mL microcentrifuge tube. The resulting powder was homogenized at 4°C with 0.3 mL of extraction buffer (0.1 m HEPES-KOH, pH 7.0; 20 mm 2-mercaptoethanol; 0.1 mg mL−1phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride; 0.1% [v/v] Triton X-100; 1 mm EDTA; and 20% [v/v] glycerol) using the “Eppendorf pestle.” The mixture was immediately centrifuged at 12,200g for 15 min at 4°C. The supernatant was recovered and frozen in liquid N2 and the pellet was discarded. Protein concentration was determined with the Bradford Reagent (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA) using bovine serum albumin as a standard (CITATION). Histochemical assay of GUS activity was conducted as described by CITATION with minor modification. Whole seedlings and excised plant organs and tissues were incubated in 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indole glucuronide (X-gluc) solution {0.5 mg mL−1 X-gluc in 50 mm Tris/NaCl buffer, pH 7.0; 0.5% [v/v] Triton X-100; 0.5 mmK3[Fe(CN)6]; 0.5 mmK4[Fe(CN)6]; and 10 mmNa2EDTA). One hundred millimolar X-gluc stock solution was prepared by dissolved 26.1 mg of X-gluc in 0.5 mL of dimethyl sulfoxide just before use. Vacuum infiltration was carried out for 10 min. Tissue was then incubated at 37°C in the dark for up to 16 h or until color developed. To improve the contrast, pigments were removed by incubating the stained material in several changes of 70% (v/v) ethanol until the chlorophyll was cleared from the tissue. The stained tissue was examined under bright-field microscopy, using a BH2 microscope (Olympus, Tokyo). GUS activity was determined in extracts with a fluorometric assay essentially as described by CITATION. Plant samples were collected and protein extracts prepared as described above. One hundred microliters of protein extract was mixed with 500 μL of GUS assay buffer (2 mm 4-methylumbelliferyl β-glucuronide in extraction buffer) and incubated at 37°C. Aliquots of 100 μL were removed from the assay at timed intervals (generally 5, 15, 25, 35, and 45 min), and the reaction was terminated by adding 0.9 mL of 0.2m Na2CO3. The fluorescent product was quantified using a fluorometer (model F-2000, Hitachi, Tokyo). Excitation and emission wavelengths were 365 and 455 nm, respectively. Tissues from regenerated non-transformed plants were used to quantify background GUS activity. All the experiments were repeated three times using three independently transformed plants. MCCase activity was measured as the rate of incorporation of radioactivity from NaH14CO3 into the acid-stable product (CITATION). The reaction mixture contained 0.1 m Tricine-KOH, pH 8.0; 5 mmMgCl2; 2.5 mm dithiothreitol, 5 mm KHCO3; 5 μCi NaH14CO3 (58 mCi mmol−1, Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK); 1 mm ATP; and 0.2 mm methylcrotonyl-CoA. Aliquots of each extract were passed through individual 1-mL Sephadex G-25 columns, pre-equilibrated with extraction buffer, and centrifuged at 800g for 1 min to remove lower M r molecules. The MCCase assay was initiated by the addition of the protein extract and incubated in a final volume of 200 μL at 37°C for 60 min. The reaction was terminated by the addition of 50 μL of 6 n HCl. A sample (50 μL) was applied to a strip of 3MM paper (Whatman, Clifton, NJ), dried, and the acid-stable radioactivity was determined by liquid scintillation counting. Assays were performed in triplicate. For each protein extract, control assays lacking the methylcrotonyl-CoA substrate were carried out in parallel. SDS-PAGE was performed in 10% (w/v) polyacrylamide gels as described previously (CITATION). After electrophoresis, proteins were electrophoretically transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane (CITATION). MCC-A and MCC-B subunits were immunologically detected with specific antisera (CITATION;CITATION), diluted 1:2,000 (w/v), followed by an incubation with 125I-protein A. The biotin-containing MCC-A subunit was also detected by using 125I-streptavidin (CITATION).
