!~ABS~!  SPY (SPINDLY) encodes a putative O-linked N-acetyl-glucosamine transferase that is genetically defined as a negatively acting component of the gibberellin (GA) signal transduction pathway. Analysis of Arabidopsis plants containing aSPY::GUS reporter gene reveals thatSPY is expressed throughout the life of the plant and in most plant organs examined. In addition to being expressed in all organs where phenotypes due to spy mutations have been reported, SPY::GUS is expressed in the root. Examination of the roots of wild-type, spy, andgai plants revealed phenotypes indicating that SPY and GAI play a role in root development. A secondSPY::GUS reporter gene lacking part of the SPY promoter was inactive, suggesting that sequences in the first exon and/or intron are required for detectable expression. Using both subcellular fractionation and visualization of a SPY-green fluorescent protein fusion protein that is able to rescue thespy mutant phenotype, the majority of SPY protein was shown to be present in the nucleus. This result is consistent with the nuclear localization of other components of the GA response pathway and suggests that SPY's role as a negative regulator of GA signaling involves interaction with other nuclear proteins and/orO-N-acetyl-glucosamine modification of these proteins.
!~RES~! Two reporter genes that place the expression of β-glucuronidase (GUS) under the control of sequences from upstream of the start of SPY translation were constructed and used to characterize theSPY promoter and its activity. The first exon ofSPY is untranslated and by comparing the promoter activity of reporter genes that either contained (SPY::GUS1) or lacked (SPY::GUS2) the complete first intron and exon sequences, the role of these sequences in controlling SPYexpression was tested. A map of SPY::GUS1 is shown in Figure 1.SPY::GUS2 was identical toSPY::GUS1 except that it does not contain theSPY region 3′ to the XhoI site present in exon 1. No GUS activity was detected in any transgenic plant containingSPY::GUS2, indicating that sequences in the first exon and/or intron are required for detectable levels of expression (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] The pattern of GUS expression in plants carryingSPY::GUS1 matched the localization ofSPY mRNA as determined by in situ hybridization (CITATION). For example, both methods of detection revealedSPY expression throughout seedlings with more intense signal in the shoot apex and root tips. In addition, expression of theSPY cDNA under the control of the promoter used inSPY::GUS1 rescues spy mutants (CITATION). Therefore, we believe that the pattern of GUS expression obtained with this construct reflects the expression pattern of theSPY gene and have further characterized SPYexpression by determining the GUS expression pattern. Eleven independent lines carrying SPY::GUS1 in the No-O background were identified. Based on preliminary examination of the GUS staining of the 11 lines, two representative lines, 702 and 711, each containing a single transgene locus, were selected for more detailed analysis. Both lines gave the same results and data from line 702 are shown in Figure 1. In general, GUS activity was detected in all organs of the plant and at all stages of the life cycle; however, some developmental regulation was apparent. GUS activity was detected 1 d after germination in the radicle just before its emergence from the seed (data not shown). At 2.5 and 3 d after germination, expression in the young seedling was highest in the cotyledons and the root tip. At 3, 4, and 5 d, expression was also detectable in the hypocotyl. At 10 d of age, GUS activity in the first pair of true leaves was reduced relative to the rest of the seedling. Two days later, this difference disappeared and the intensity of staining was again fairly similar throughout the aboveground portion of the plant, with a higher staining intensity in the vegetative apex (Fig. 1B). This developmental regulation of GUS activity was not detected in leaves developing at later nodes (note staining in youngest visible leaf in Fig. 1, B and H). Older plants (Fig. 1H) also displayed uniform GUS staining throughout the vegetative organs, but this staining was less intense (the intensity of the staining of the plant shown in Fig. 1H was enhanced relative to the seedling shown in Fig. 1I by staining it at a higher temperature; see “Materials and Methods”). In older seedlings, expression was observed throughout the root, particularly at the tip of the primary root (Fig. 1C) and in lateral roots (Fig. 1D). GUS staining was also observed in trichomes and senescing leaves (data not shown), and in inflorescence internodes, flowers (anther connective, sepals, and carpels, Fig. 1, E and F). Expression was observed in the seeds and carpels of fully elongated siliques (Fig. 1, E and G). Lower expression was also observed in expanding siliques (Fig. 1E) and in the developing seeds in these siliques when they were cut open to allow the GUS substrate to penetrate (data not shown). Expression was also detected in the embryo of maturing seeds (after the endosperm disappeared) when No-O flowers were pollinated with pollen from line 711 (data not shown). To investigate possible transcriptional regulation ofSPY, various treatments and growth regulators were applied to 702 and 711 plants. Plants were germinated on Murashige and Skoog plates without growth regulators (see “Materials and Methods”) and at 5 d of age were transferred to new plates containing 10−5 m naphthaline acetic acid (an auxin), 10−5 mbenzyl amino purine (a cytokinin), or 10−5 m abscisic acid (ABA). Other plants were transferred to Murashige and Skoog plates and placed in the dark at 4°C, 22°C, or 30°C. Control plants were transferred to fresh plates and kept at 22°C in the light. Seedlings were stained for GUS activity after 19 h of treatment. No differences in GUS staining were observed between control plants and plants receiving any of the treatments. Because SPY is thought to be a negative regulator of GA signal transduction, we also examined whether theSPY::GUS1 gene responded to GA3 treatments. Lines 702 and 711 in the No-O background were analyzed by treating 3-week-old seedlings with either 20 μg of GA3 in 2 μL of ethanol or 2 μL of ethanol only (control). After 24 h, whole seedlings were stained for GUS activity and GA-treated seedlings were found to stain slightly more intensely than control plants, particularly in the shoot apex (Fig. 1, I and J). This experiment was repeated several times with similar results on each occasion. To quantify this difference, GUS activity in seedlings representing four independent lines in the No-O background, including 702 and 711, was quantified. Although we observed a slight (70%) increase in GUS activity in response to continuous growth in the presence of 10−6 m GA3, we were not able to repeat this result when the same SPY::GUS1construct was introduced in the Columbia background (data not shown). We were also unable to observe any effect of the ga1,gai, and spy-4 mutations onSPY::GUS1 activity in the Columbia background (data not shown). In conclusion, the SPY::GUS1 reporter gene suggests that SPY is expressed throughout the life of the plant and in most plant organs examined, and there is at most only minor regulation at the transcriptional level by the treatments investigated. Two approaches were used to determine the cellular localization of the SPY protein. In the first approach, a construct expressing full-length SPY-GFP fusion protein under the control of theSPY promoter was introduced into plants and the localization of GFP was determined (Fig. 2). In the second approach, SPY was detected on protein blots containing proteins from different subcellular fractions (Fig.3).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Before initiating experiments to localize the SPY-GFP protein, the functionality of the fusion protein was assessed by determining if expression of this protein in spy-3 seeds restored sensitivity to paclobutrazol, a GA biosynthesis inhibitor. T2 seeds from 10 independently generatedspy-3 lines carrying the SPY-GFP transgene were scored for resistance to kanamycin, the marker linked to theSPY-GFP transgene, and resistance to paclobutrazol (TableI). In every line, germination on paclobutrazol was reduced and the ratios of resistance to kanamycin (kanr):sensitivity to kanamycin (kans) and sensitivity to paclobutrazol (Paclos):resistance to paclobutrazol (Paclor) seeds were similar, indicating that theSPY-GFP transgene encodes a protein with SPY activity.  The SPY-GFP transgene encodes a protein with SPY activity The SPY-GFP transgene is driven by the same promoter asSPY::GUS1, and the expression pattern in roots, where autofluorescence was low enough for the protein to be easily detected, was similar to the SPY::GUS1 expression pattern (Figs. 1C and 2A). In root cells, the majority of the GFP fluorescence is from the nucleus, although some is also from the cytoplasm (Fig. 2B). In comparisons between plants carrying the SPY-GFP transgene and untransformed controls, the fluorescence from the cytosol of the transgenic plant was clearly stronger and distinguishable from that of the control, indicating that the cytosolic SPY-GFP fluorescence of the transgenic plant was not attributable to autofluorescence from the cell wall (data not shown). In other parts of the plant, autofluorescence prevented GFP localization. Examination of SPY-GFP seedlings 0, 15, 30, 45, and 60 min after treatment with 10−4 mGA3 or 1.5 × 10−6 m ABA did not detect any effect of these treatments on either the localization or abundance of SPY-GFP. We also failed to observe any change in GFP activity 24 and 48 h after transfer to Murashige and Skoog plates containing 10−4 m paclobutrazol (data not shown). We have found that SPY from Arabidopsis plants is difficult to detect by western-blot analysis, presumably because it is rare. Because immunolocalization experiments (T. Thornton and N. Olszewski, unpublished data) and the expression pattern ofSPY::GUS1 (Fig. 1B) suggested that SPY might be more abundant in apices, we attempted to detect SPY from cauliflower inflorescences. A western blot containing total soluble cauliflower inflorescence proteins and a protein sample from Arabidopsis seedlings, in which SPY had been concentrated and enriched by precipitation with ammonium sulfate, was probed with affinity-purified anti-SPY antibodies that recognize recombinant SPY protein expressed in bothEscherichia coli and insect cells. A single protein of the expected size of SPY was detected in both samples (Fig. 3A), suggesting that these antibodies recognize cauliflower SPY and that it is more abundant in the inflorescence of cauliflower than in Arabidopsis plants. To confirm that SPY is localized to the nucleus, duplicate western blots containing proteins from purified cauliflower nuclei and total soluble proteins were probed with antibodies against SPY, histone, and tubulin (Fig. 3B). Consistent with the SPY-GFP localization to the nucleus, SPY was most abundant in the purified nuclei. The nuclei proteins do not react strongly with antitubulin antibodies, indicating that the nuclei are not highly contaminated with cytosolic proteins. SPY protein was also detected in the soluble protein fraction, suggesting that SPY is also present in the cytosol. However, this protein preparation also contained histones, indicating that this fraction was contaminated with nuclear proteins. Consequently, we were not able to determine if SPY is also present in the cytosol of cauliflower cells. Detailed examination of the phenotype of several spymutants has been used previously to examine the role of SPY in plant development (CITATION; CITATION). Nevertheless, it is likely that additional roles for SPY remain to be discovered, especially because more recent work suggests that SPY may play a role in plant development beyond its role in GA signaling (CITATION). Because the expression of a gene in a particular organ or developmental stage is consistent with a physiological role for the corresponding protein, the pattern of SPY expression was compared with known roles for SPY. Two aspects of SPYexpression suggested possible new functions for SPY. In contrast to other leaves, a change in SPY::GUS1 expression during development was readily detectable in the first pair of true leaves (Fig. 1B). To test the hypothesis that SPY may have a unique role in these leaves, the first pair of leaves was examined for defects in development. The distance across the first leaf pair ofspy plants was smaller than those of wild type (WT; TableII), confirming that SPY is essential for the normal development of these leaves, but no additional defects in leaf development were detected. Previous analysis of severespy mutants late in vegetative development revealed that they possess smaller rosettes than WT plants (CITATION). Therefore, although SPY expression varies during the growth of the first leaf pair, these leaves exhibited no phenotypes that are not observed in leaves where SPY expression is constant throughout development.  Early leaf growth is altered in spy mutants The SPY::GUS1 and SPY::SPY-GFP reporter constructs also reveal that SPY is expressed in roots (Figs. 1 and 2). Initial inspection of WT and spy mutant roots did not reveal any obvious differences in morphology or growth. To examine root development more carefully, roots were allowed to grow along the surface of an agar plate inclined at an angle of about 30° from the vertical. Due to the nutation of the root as it elongates, WT roots grew aslant of the vertical and the root also exhibited a wavy phenotype. Because it has been reported that this phenotype is difficult to detect in the Columbia background (CITATION), we used spy mutants in the Wassilewskija (Ws) and Landsberg erecta (La-er) backgrounds. As shown in Figure 4, spy-4 roots behave very differently from WT Ws roots under these conditions, demonstrating that root growth is altered in the mutant plants. The wavy pattern was less pronounced in spy-4 roots (compare Fig. 4, C with D) and the mean angle the roots deviated from the vertical was reversed and significantly different (P < 0.001) from WT (Fig. 5; TableIII). To confirm that this phenotype is due to loss-of-SPY function and not some previously unrecognized mutation in the spy-4 plants, the growth of spy-5roots was also examined and found to exhibit similar abnormal root growth (P < 0.001; Table III).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Root waving is altered in the spy and gai mutants In an attempt to determine whether the altered angle of root growth ofspy mutants represents a physiological role for GAs, two experiments were performed. In the first experiment, we were unable to mimic the spy-4 phenotype by growing WT Ws roots on plates containing 10−5 mGA3 (Table III). In the second experiment, the effect of the gai mutation, which reduces GA response (CITATION, CITATION), was examined. When grown on plates solidified with 1.0% (w/v) agar, no differences between WT La-er and gai were detected (data not shown). However, when plates solidified with 0.6% (w/v) agar were used instead, gai roots grew at a slightly but significantly greater (P < 0.001) angle than WT La-erroots (Table III). On 0.6% (w/v) plates, the difference between WT Ws and spy-4 was still apparent (Table III), suggesting that spy-4 and gai have opposite effects on this phenotype.
!~MM~! All seeds were stratified for 3 d at 4°C under dim light to aid germination. All plants were grown under an 18-h long-day photoperiod of 120 μmol m−2 s−1 consisting of white fluorescent light with a temperature of 22°C (day) and 20°C (night). For the root assays, seeds were placed on the surface of 1× Murashige and Skoog plates sealed with medical (porous) tape and stratified as usual. When transferred to a growth room, the plates were placed at an angle of 30° from the vertical with the seeds toward the light source and at the top of the plate. The majority of roots grew on the surface of the agar. Roots that grew into the agar did not exhibit the root waving phenotype and were not measured. Values are shown as the mean ± se, and Student's t test was used to determine the statistical significance of differences between genotypes. To allow comparison of leaf size with WT Columbia and spy-3, the spy-4 mutation, originally generated by a T-DNA insertion in the Ws background, was backcrossed into the Columbia genetic background six times. The ga1and gai lines were each backcrossed into the Columbia genetic background three times before combining withSPY::GUS1 lines in the Columbia background. Upon request, all novel materials described here will be made available for noncommercial research purposes. No restrictions or conditions will be placed on the use of any materials described in this paper that would limit their use in noncommercial research purposes. All constructs were generated using standard molecular techniques. All SPY::GUS1 lines described in detail here contain a single locus, based on segregation of kanamycin resistance on the T-DNA containing SPY::GUS1(Fig. 1). The SPY::GUS1 construct contained genomic sequence from a HindIII site 2,361 bp upstream of the 5′ end of exon 1, all of exon 1 (324 bp) and intron 1 (320 bp), and 16 nucleotides from the 5′ end of exon 2 so that the most 3′ nucleotide of this promoter corresponds to a position 11 nucleotides upstream of the SPY start codon in exon 2.SPY::GUS2 was identical toSPY::GUS1 except that the region of theSPY gene 3′ of the XhoI site, which cuts at position 69 in exon 1, was not included. An additional reporter gene,SPY::SPY-GFP (Fig. 3), expressing a full-length SPY-GFP fusion protein under the control of theSPY promoter, was also constructed using standard methods. The SPY ORF from a full-lengthSPY cDNA was amplified by PCR using the following primers: 5′-AGCTGGCTGGGAATACTC-3′ and 5′-ATGCGGCCGCCATGGAGCTAGTGGAGTCCATTCTC-3′. The PCR product was subcloned into the pCR 2.1-TOPO plasmid (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). TheStuI and NotI fragment of the TOPO construct was used to replace the same restriction fragment of construct F (CITATION). The new construct F was then digested with SalI and NcoI to isolate the full-length SPY promoter (as forSPY::GUS1) and cDNA. TheSalI-NcoI fragment was ligated along with a NcoI-EcoRI DNA fragment from a 35S-sGFP-TYG-nos construct (CITATION; J. Sheen, personal communication) into pOCA28. Binary vectors containing the different reporter genes were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1 (pMP90) and/or AGL1 (CITATION). WT Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia andspy-3 were transformed by vacuum infiltration (CITATION) using C58C1 (pMP90). Root explants of the ecotype No-O were transformed by the method of CITATION using AGL1. GUS activity was determined as described in CITATIONwith the addition of 2 mm ferri- and ferro-cyanide, and quantified fluorometrically as described by CITATION. For Figure 1, A through D, I, and J, the reaction was allowed to proceed for 24h at 25°C, whereas other images were stained for 24h at 37°C to increase the intensity of the staining. GFP was localized in 10-d-old SPY::SPY-GFP plants that had been grown in the presence of kanamycin using an E800 microscope (Nikon, Tokyo) with a 470- to 490-nm excitation filter and a 520- to 580-nm barrier filter. Images were captured with a Cool Cam system. To determine the effects of GA and ABA on the localization and abundance of SPY-GFP, seedlings were transferred to media containing either no added hormone, 100 μm GA3, or 1.5 μm ABA and visually scored 0, 15, 30, 45, and 60 min after transfer. The effects of paclobutrazol on SPY-GFP localization and abundance were scored 24 and 48 h after transfer to 100 μm paclobutrazol. The kanamycin sensitivity of seeds was scored by germinating surface-sterilized seeds on medium solidified with 0.6% (w/v) phytoagar (Sigma, St. Louis), and containing 1× Murashige and Skoog salts (Sigma), 1% (w/v) Suc, and 50 μg mL−1 kanamycin (Sigma). The paclobutrazol sensitivity of seeds was determined as described previously (CITATION). Antibodies against two peptides, DTKQKQVEELVRLPDC (anti-DTKQ) and LQKEVHDDPLISKDLGP (anti-LQKE),located in the C-terminal half of SPY, were prepared and affinity purified by Quality Controlled Biochemicals, Inc. (Hopkinton, MA). To detect SPY in Arabidopsis, 0.1 g of seeds was imbibed in water in a petri dish and placed under constant light at 4°C. After 3 d, the plate was placed at room temperature under constant light. After 2 d, excess water was drained from the seedlings and they were transferred to a chilled mortar and ground to a fine powder in liquid nitrogen. The powder was mixed with 2 mL of ice-cold extract buffer (10 mm Tris, pH 7.2; 5 mm MgCl2; and 5 mm 2-mercap-toethanol) with 1 mmphenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. The paste was transferred to tubes and centrifuged at 16,000g for 15 min to pellet insoluble material. The supernatant was transferred to a fresh tube and ammonium sulfate was added to 50% (w/v) saturation. Proteins were allowed to precipitate overnight at 4°C. Precipitated proteins were collected by centrifugation at 16,000g for 15 min. The supernatant was discarded and the pellet was resuspended in extraction buffer, desalted by gel filtration chromatography, and boiled in SDS-PAGE sample buffer. For nuclear isolation from cauliflower (Brassica oleracea var. botrytis), 150 g of inflorescence meristem was harvested and nuclei were isolated as described by CITATION, except that ethidium bromide was omitted from all buffers and the tissue was not washed with diethylether. The first supernatant (crude cytosolic fraction) and the purified nuclei obtained after washing away residual Percoll (Amersham-Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala) were analyzed further. For immunoblot analysis, protein concentrations were approximated by the Bradford assay (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA) and by visual comparison with protein markers of known concentration on Coomassie Blue-stained gels. Purified nuclear and crude cytosolic proteins (35 μg) were separated by SDS-PAGE and blotted onto Immobilon-P transfer membrane (Millipore, Bedford, MA). Three identical blots were made containing both fractions and these were probed with SPY antipeptide antibodies, monoclonal anti-β-tubulin antibodies (Sigma), or antihistone H1 antibodies (gift of Dr. Steve Gantt, University of Minnesota, St. Paul). In brief, blots were blocked for at least 1 h at room temperature with constant shaking in blocking solution (5% [w/v] nonfat dry milk in Tris-buffered saline [TBS] + 0.75% [w/v] Tween 20). Blots were then incubated at room temperature with constant shaking in blocking solution with the primary antibody for 1 h for histone H1 and β-tubulin detection or overnight for SPY detection. The blots were washed two times for 5 min each with TBS + 3% (w/v) Tween 20 and then two times for 5 min each with TBS. Blots were then incubated for 30 min at room temperature with constant shaking in blocking solution with peroxidase-conjugated protein A (Sigma) for SPY and histone H1 detection or peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG (Boehringer Mannheim/Roche, Indianapolis) for β-tubulin detection. Blots were washed as described above and signals were visualized using SuperSignal West Femto Maximum Sensitivity Substrate (Pierce Chemical, Rockford, IL) as per the manufacturer's instructions.
