!~ABS~! Embryo dormancy in flowering plants is an important dispersal mechanism that promotes survival of the seed through time. The subsequent transition to germination is a critical control point regulating initiation of vegetative growth. Here we show that the Arabidopsis COMATOSE (CTS) locus is required for this transition, and acts, at least in part, by profoundly affecting the metabolism of stored lipids. CTS encodes a peroxisomal protein of the ATP binding cassette (ABC) transporter class with significant identity to the human X‐linked adrenoleukodystrophy protein (ALDP). Like X‐ALD patients, cts mutant embryos and seedlings exhibit pleiotropic phenotypes associated with perturbation in fatty acid metabolism. CTS expression transiently increases shortly after imbibition during germination, but not in imbibed dormant seeds, and genetic analyses show that CTS is negatively regulated by loci that promote embryo dormancy through multiple independent pathways. Our results demonstrate that CTS regulates transport of acyl CoAs into the peroxisome, and indicate that regulation of CTS function is a major control point for the switch between the opposing developmental programmes of dormancy and germination.
!~RES~! The CTS gene was identified using a combination of positional cloning and insertional mutagenesis. Previously, the cts‐1 mutation had been mapped to the distal arm of chromosome IV, close to the marker DHS1 (CITATION). Southern analysis of chromosomal organization in this region revealed a polymorphism associated with cts‐1 within the predicted gene AT4G39850 (data not shown). Gene‐specific PCR and PCR‐based chromosome walking identified a chromosomal translocation associated with this polymorphism (FIG-REF). A second allele (designated cts‐2, FIG-REF) was obtained by reverse genetics. This line contains a T‐DNA insertion within the third exon of AT4G39850. The cts‐1 and cts‐2 mutants exhibited indistinguishable phenotypes, and did not complement one another. Three small overlapping genomic fragments delimiting a region 1.7 kb upstream to 480 bp downstream of the AT4G39850 gene complemented the cts‐1 phenotype in transgenic plants (FIG-REF). In addition, western analysis with a CTS antibody directed against the C‐terminal 225 amino acids of the protein shows that the CTS protein is undetectable in germinating seedlings in both cts‐1 and cts‐2 mutants (FIG-REF), whereas expression of other proteins associated with germination [malate synthase (MS), thiolase (KAT2) and iso‐citrate lyase (ICL)] are unaffected. Together, these data confirm that the AT4G39850 predicted gene corresponds to the CTS locus. The predicted gene is incorrectly annotated; the correctly annotated version is deposited in DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank under accession No. AJ311341. [[FIGURE]] The derived CTS amino acid sequence contained two highly conserved nucleotide binding domains (NBD) (FIG-REF), indicating that CTS encodes a full‐size ABC transporter (CITATION). Both halves of the predicted protein show significant sequence similarity to the human X‐linked ALDP, an ABC half‐size transporter (CITATION). This protein and its homologues from yeast (CITATION) are associated with transport of VLCFAs into the peroxisome (CITATION; CITATION) and VLCFA CoA‐synthetase activity (CITATION). In humans, mutations of ALD result in metabolic abnormalities associated with degeneration of myelin sheaths, leading to neurological disorders, learning deficiencies, coma and early death (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), although the exact biochemical function of the protein is still unclear. The Arabidopsis genome contains at least 129 ABC genes, of which 51 are full size (CITATION). Of these, only CTS has significant similarity to ALDP. CTS corresponds to the recently reported gene PXA1/PED3 (CITATION; CITATION). The relative positions of mutations for the different reported alleles within this gene and protein are shown in FIG-REF and FIG-REF. A rabbit polyclonal antibody was raised against a fragment of CTS corresponding to amino acids 1112–1337, affinity purified and used to localize the protein in organelles from rosette leaf tissue, which had been separated on a sucrose gradient. Catalase activity, a specific marker for peroxisomes (FIG-REF), was found predominantly in fraction 7 (∼55% w/w sucrose), which corresponds to intact peroxisomes (CITATION). KAT, an independent marker for peroxisomes, also showed a peak in fractions 7 and 8. Both catalase and thiolase are matrix proteins, and their presence in lighter fractions is due to a combination of organelle breakage and the intrinsic heterogeneity of peroxisomes (CITATION; CITATION). CTS protein closely follows the distribution of catalase and thiolase, and is most abundant in fraction 7. However, in contrast with the soluble peroxisomal matrix enzymes and consistent with its membrane localization, it is not detected in the lightest fractions (26–29). Markers for chloroplast (chlorophyll) and mitochondrial (adenine nucleotide translocator, ANT) membranes were resolved well from CTS, as was the ER marker calreticulin. Thus we conclude that CTS, like ALDP, is a peroxisomal protein. [[FIGURE]] Seeds containing mutant cts‐1 and cts‐2 alleles were induced to germinate on sucrose media following removal of the surrounding testa and endosperm layers. Electron microscopic examination of cotyledons from cts‐1 seedlings demonstrated a striking inability to break down lipid bodies. In comparison, lipid bodies were absent in the wild type (WT) (FIG-REF). Peroxisomes were visible in both the WT and mutants, and there were no obvious differences in size or morphology. Cells from WT cotyledons were highly vacuolated (data not shown) with well‐developed chloroplasts containing starch granules and granal stacks, whilst most cells from the cts‐1 mutant contained small vacuoles, and chloroplast morphology was distorted. These observations show that in seedlings the cts‐1 allele results in a severe block in lipid breakdown. This is confirmed by resistance of both cts‐1 and cts‐2 seedlings to 2,4DB. This compound is bioactivated by peroxisomal β‐oxidation to 2,4‐dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4D), an auxin that results in stunted root growth (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) (FIG-REF). Growth of seedlings of both WT ecotypes and cts alleles were severely retarded on 2,4D, showing that they remain sensitive to auxin. However, for both mutant alleles, growth on media containing 2,4DB did not result in stunted roots, whereas WT seedlings were severely affected. Therefore β‐oxidation of 2,4DB is compromised in cts‐1 and cts‐2. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To provide further information on the specific nature of the block in lipid breakdown and hence the function of the CTS protein, the levels of triacyl glycerol (TAG) and acyl CoAs were measured in the mutants and corresponding WTs. All lines were germinated in the presence of 1% sucrose (and the testa of the cts mutants was ruptured to allow germination) to ensure that seedlings were at similar morphological stages of development. The summed changes in fatty acid content of extracted TAG from the two mutants and their corresponding WTs (Ler and WS for cts‐1 and cts‐2, respectively) indicate similar levels of TAG‐derived fatty acids in imbibed seeds of the WTs and cts‐1 on day 0 (FIG-REF) (higher apparent TAG levels in cts‐2 reflects bigger seed size). TAG fatty acid levels only declined slightly after 2 days of germination, even in WT seedlings, presumably due to the presence of sucrose as an alternative energy source. However, by day 5, TAG‐derived fatty acids had decreased by 88–95% in the WTs, but by only 28–33% in the two mutants, as expected from the persistence of lipid bodies (FIG-REF). All TAG‐derived fatty acid chain lengths were mobilized after 5 days of germination for both WTs, but both cts‐1 and cts‐2 mutants retained high levels of the same TAGs (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Total acyl CoAs increased in all lines over the period 0–5 days (FIG-REF), but this was much more dramatic in the two mutants. By day 5, some of the increase in both WT and mutant seedlings may reflect new lipid synthesis (e.g. for membrane biogenesis). However, the most striking observation is the retention of 20:1, and to a lesser extent 20:0 and 22:1, CoAs in seedlings of the two mutant alleles (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). As C20 fatty acids are only very minor components of non‐storage lipids in Arabidopsis, these data demonstrate that there is a severe block in carbon flux from stored TAGs during germination in the mutant alleles. The data presented in FIG-REF,FIG-REF,FIG-REF demonstrate that there is a profound defect in fatty acid metabolism in seedlings containing the cts‐1 and cts‐2 mutant alleles, but do not indicate whether these alleles result in a defect in the transport of fatty acids or acyl CoAs into the peroxisome, or a defect in β‐oxidation per se leading to an accumulation of acyl CoAs and subsequent inhibition of lipolysis [as in the kat2 (3‐ketoacyl thiolase) mutant; CITATION]. Both acyl CoA oxidase and thiolase activity were detectable in imbibed cts‐1 seeds (data not shown). Furthermore, addition of propionate or butyrate (short chain fatty acids that can potentially enter seeds and partition across the peroxisome membrane) to the growth media greatly increased the germination potential of intact cts‐1 seeds (FIG-REF). These results suggest that peroxisomal β‐oxidation is functional in the cts‐1 mutant, and the failure to metabolize TAG‐derived acyl CoA is a consequence of a defect in transport into the peroxisome. [[FIGURE]] As other mutants defective in lipid reserve mobilization are able to germinate (CITATION; CITATION), and the energy for embryo expansion and radicle protrusion is believed to come from metabolism of endogenous carbohydrate (CITATION), levels of sucrose, glucose and fructose were measured in the cts‐1 mutant (FIG-REF). In dry seeds, sucrose levels were 27% lower in cts‐1 (281 ± 7 ng per seed) than in the Ler WT (387 ± 33 ng per seed). Fructose levels were 20 ng per seed for cts‐1 and 7 ng per seed for Ler, and glucose was at the limit of detection. By day 5 of imbibition, cts‐1 seeds retained significant levels of sucrose (193 ng per seed) whilst in the germinated Ler seedlings, sucrose had fallen to 35 ng per seed. Fructose levels were similar (4 versus 9 ng per seed) but glucose levels were negligible in cts (6 ng per seed) compared with Ler (91 ng per seed). Thus the presence of the cts‐1 mutation results in a modest decrease in sucrose content of the dry seed, but has a profound effect on its subsequent utilization. To define the relative position of CTS in the genetic pathway controlling germination, double mutants were generated with embryo (reduced dormancy2, rdo2), testa (altered testa shape, ats and transparent testa glabra 1 ttg1‐1) and hormone‐related (abscisic acid insensitive 1, abi1‐1) mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). WT loci corresponding to these mutations promote embryo dormancy through independent pathways, therefore these mutants all increase germination potential of embryos. Seed germination was analysed following storage for 1 month (the time period required for WT seeds to completely after‐ripen) in the absence of exogenous sucrose (FIG-REF). In all cases, single mutants (with the exception of cts‐1) were completely non‐dormant and germinated within 7 days of sowing. Conversely, all double mutant combinations tested showed the highly reduced germination potential of the single cts‐1 allele. When freshly harvested seeds were plated on medium containing sucrose (FIG-REF), single mutants of abi1‐1, rdo2, ats and ttg1‐1 showed high germination potential that was markedly reduced by the presence of the cts‐1 mutation in the double mutants. However, following dry storage of seed lots, the germination potential of the two testa mutants ats and ttg1‐1 combined with cts‐1 increased, but only in the presence of exogenous sucrose. In contrast, cts‐1 rdo2 and cts1 abi1‐1 double mutants failed to germinate regardless of whether seed was stored, or sucrose was supplied. [[FIGURE]] The expression pattern of CTS protein and RNA, and proteins associated with β‐oxidation (KAT2) and the glyoxylate cycle (ICL, MS) were examined during germination of after‐ripened non‐dormant WT seedlings (FIG-REF). Strong induction of CTS and ICL occurred before and during radicle emergence and early seedling establishment. The cts‐1 mutant (FIG-REF) was compared with freshly harvested dormant WT seed (FIG-REF) and WT seed treated with a germination‐inhibiting concentration (10 μM) (CITATION) of the hormone abscisic acid (ABA) (FIG-REF). In dormant seeds, a very low level of CTS expression was observable, after 6 days imbibition (FIG-REF). This may be because ecotype Ler has low dormancy levels (compare germination of after‐ripened and dormant samples, FIG-REF), and it is not possible to know a priori which seeds in sample populations are dormant, and which are about to germinate. However, this very low level of expression is consistent with genetic data (FIG-REF) showing the requirement of CTS for radicle emergence. In ABA‐treated seeds (FIG-REF), expression was repressed completely and seeds did not germinate. In imbibed seeds of the cts‐1 mutant (FIG-REF), as expected, no CTS protein could be detected. In dormant WT seeds and in the cts‐1 mutant, induction of ICL was diminished and delayed compared with germinating seeds. However, ICL induction was reduced but not delayed in timing in ABA‐treated WT seeds (FIG-REF), which resembles the expression profile in germinating seeds. MS expression did not show the rapid induction observed in germinating seedlings, but a lower, more constitutive expression in cts‐1 mutant, dormant and ABA‐treated seeds. In all cases, expression of KAT2 protein was similar. Analysis of transcript levels by RT–PCR (FIG-REF) showed that in after‐ripened seeds, maximum steady‐state levels of CTS transcript precede the appearance of CTS protein by 1 day. In dormant seeds, weak expression is seen at days 5–6 around the time that some seeds in the sample begin to germinate (FIG-REF). In contrast, ABA‐treated after‐ripened seeds express CTS transcript from day 1 through to day 6, but do not synthesize detectable levels of CTS protein and do not germinate. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants and seeds were grown and treated as described previously with a minimum day length of 16 h (CITATION). Mutants were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. Double mutant combinations were generated by standard procedures. The cts‐2 mutant allele was obtained by PCR‐based screening of the Wisconsin‐α gene knockout lines for insertions in the CTS gene (CITATION). The sequence of the CTS RNA was obtained using the cDNA clone H1A6T7 (ABRC, Ohio State University). The cts‐1 mutation was located by CAPS mapping (CITATION) and genome walking (Universal genome Walker Kit, Clontech). Complementation of cts‐1 was achieved using BAC clones 27H10, 155A23 and 159N1 (GeTCID, John Innes Centre) by introduction into Agrobacterium strain GV3101 (CITATION) and transformation of cts‐1 plants using the floral dip method (CITATION). Transformants were subjected to double selection based on their ability to germinate on kanamycin (50 μg/ml) in the absence of sucrose. Transformation was confirmed by PCR screening genomic DNA for CTS, cts‐1 and NPTII genes. For expression analysis, seeds were plated on media as indicated in the figure legends. Fresh seeds (dormant) were harvested from yellow unopened siliques, after‐ripened seeds (or stored cts‐1/cts‐2 seeds) were dry stored for 1 month at 24°C in the dark. Samples were taken daily from plates for 7 days for RT–PCR and western analysis. In the case of dormant seeds, all germinating individuals were removed before sample extractions. RNA was extracted using the Plant RNeasy extraction kit (Qiagen) using a modified extraction buffer [4 M guanine hydrochloride, 20 mM 2‐(N‐morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid, 0.5 M EDTA, 2 M NaCl, 2% (w/v) polyvinyl pyrollidone‐360, 0.22 M β‐mercaptoethanol pH 7.0]. Total RNA (1 μg) was DNase treated and reverse transcribed by standard methods. PCR using CTS gene‐specific primers was performed and products visualized on 1% (w/v) agarose gels. Proteins were extracted from seed/seedling samples in 50 mM Tris pH 7.5, 1% (w/v) SDS, 2 mM PMSF and 0.01% (v/v) Sigma protease inhibitor cocktail. Proteins were resolved by SDS–PAGE (50 μg of total protein per lane) (CITATION), transferred to nitrocellulose membranes and probed with antibodies for CTS, ICL, MS and KAT. Testa/endosperm layers were removed as described previously (CITATION). After‐ripened WT and mutant seeds with or without testa/endosperm were incubated on germination media ± 3% sucrose. Resistance to auxin herbicides was tested by germinating mutant seeds with testa/endosperm layers removed on sucrose‐containing germination media ± 0.2 μg/ml 2,4DB or 0.05 μg/ml 2,4D. Propionic and butyric acid were added to germination media (0.01–1.0 mM pH 4.8) ± sucrose. Germination was denoted as emergence of the radicle from the testa. Sucrose density gradient and assay of fractions were performed as described previously (CITATION) using Arabidopsis rosette leaf material. A polyclonal antibody was raised against a C‐ terminal fragment of CTS (amino acids 1112–1337) expressed in E.coli strain BL21(DE3)pLysS (Novagen) using a pET28b (Novagen) construct containing an NheI–BamHI fragment of cDNA clone H1A6T7 (DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank accession No. AJ311341). The antibody was affinity‐purified using the recombinant fragment (CITATION). Acyl CoAs and total lipids were extracted from five replicated 3–10 mg tissue samples and analysed according to CITATION. An aliquot of the total lipid extract was used for TAG determination. A 1 ml 100 mg bed volume Bond‐Elut (Varian, Surrey, UK) SPE column was prepared by elution with 2 × 1 ml methanol, 3 × 1 ml hexane, and then 100 μl sample loaded in hexane. TAGs were eluted with 1.5 ml 2:3 (v/v) chloroform:hexane, dried under vacuum, transmethylated to fatty acid methyl esters and analysed as described previously (CITATION). Specificity for TAG separation was optimized so that the diacylglycerol and dipalmitin (Sigma) were excluded from the SPE eluate. Carbo hydrates were extracted in triplicate from 50 seed samples as described in CITATION. Levels of soluble sugars were determined based on an adaptation of the assay of CITATION. Cotyledons from seedlings germinated for 5 days on 1/2 MS medium supplemented with 1% (w/v) sucrose were processed for electron microscopy as described, omitting treatment with 3,3′‐diaminobenzidine (CITATION).
