!~ABS~! Developmental responses to the plant hormone auxin are thought to be mediated by interacting pairs from two protein families: short-lived inhibitory IAA proteins and ARF transcription factors binding to auxin-response elements. monopteros mutants lacking activating ARF5 and the auxin-insensitive mutant bodenlos fail to initiate the root meristem during early embryogenesis. Here we show that thebodenlos phenotype results from an amino-acid exchange in the conserved degradation domain of IAA12. BODENLOS and MONOPTEROS interact in the yeast two-hybrid assay and the two genes are coexpressed in early embryogenesis, suggesting that BODENLOS inhibits MONOPTEROS action in root meristem initiation. 
!~RES~! The BDL gene was mapped to a genomic interval of ∼200 kb that includes the IAA12 gene involved in auxin response (Fig. 1A). The IAA12 gene was amplified by PCR from both the parental line, Landsbergerecta, and the bdl mutant line. Sequence analysis revealed a single G to A transition that results in a predicted amino acid exchange of Pro 74 to Ser in the highly conserved domain II (Fig.1B). Identical mutations have been identified in dominant mutant alleles of IAA3 (shy2-2; CITATION) andIAA7 (axr2-1; CITATION) (Fig. 1C). Comparable mutations affecting the same or the adjacent proline residue are known for IAA14 (slr-1; CITATION),IAA17 (axr3-1; CITATION), IAA19(msg2-1; CITATION) and IAA28(iar2-1; CITATION). Recent analyses of half-life times for axr3 mutant protein in vitro and in vivo indicate that these amino acid replacements render the mutant proteins several-fold more stable than the wild-type protein (CITATION; CITATION;CITATION; CITATION). Furthermore, the IAA7 protein from the axr2-1 mutant line, in contrast to the wild-type protein, does not interact with the SCFTIR1 complex involved in IAA protein degradation (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] The bdl mutant has a semidominant phenotype during postembryonic development but a recessive embryonic phenotype (CITATION). To analyze the effect of the bdl mutant allele, we performed reciprocal plant transformation experiments, using homologous BDL 4-kb genomic fragments from wild-type andbdl mutant lines. The BDL wild-type transgene did not rescue the bdl mutant phenotypes (Table1). In contrast, nine wild-type plants independently transformed with the bdl mutant transgene gave transgenic progeny that displayed the bdl/BDL heterozygous plant phenotypes (Fig. 1D–I). Three of these transgenic plants were analyzed further. Upon selfing, they produced about 22% bdlmutant seedlings, a proportion comparable to that of selfedbdl/BDL heterozygous plants (Fig. 1J–L; Table 1). Reciprocal crosses between bdl/BDL heterozygous plants and wild-type plants carrying the bdl mutant transgene also resulted in a similar proportion of bdl mutant seedling progeny (Table 1). These results suggest that the copy number of the bdl mutant allele is critical, both in the absence and in the presence of wild-type alleles.  Analysis of progeny from transgenic plants bearing bdl alleles To determine its subcellular localization, we transiently expressed BDL protein fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) in parsley protoplasts (CITATION). The GFP-BDL protein strongly accumulated in the nucleus in a compartmentalized manner (Fig.2A–F), whereas BDL proteins truncated at amino acids 66 or 72 were equally partitioned between nucleus and cytoplasm (data not shown). Domains III and IV of IAA proteins, which are also present at the C terminus of ARFs, mediate homomeric and heteromeric interactions with other IAAs and ARFs in the yeast two-hybrid system (CITATION; CITATION). In this assay, BDL interacted both with itself and with the C terminus of MP/ARF5 (Fig. 2G). Thus, BDL can interact directly with MP.  [[FIGURE]] A prerequisite for in vivo interaction to occur is coexpression of the interacting partners. We compared the spatial and temporal accumulation patterns of BDL and MP mRNAs during embryogenesis (Fig. 3). At the octant stage, BDLand MP mRNAs accumulated in the proembryo cells derived from the apical daughter cell of the zygote (Fig. 3A,E). Subsequently, both mRNA species were gradually confined to subepidermal cells, eventually being restricted to the vascular precursor cells (Fig. 3B–D,F–H). At the basal end of early embryos, the hypophysis adjacent to the proembryo did not express either mRNA species (Fig. 3A,B,E,F, arrows). After the asymmetric division of the hypophysis, both BDL andMP mRNAs were observed in its smaller lens-shaped daughter cell that gives rise to the quiescent center of the root meristem (Fig.3C,G, arrows). Thus, there was a coordinated basal shift in the expression domains of both genes at the globular stage. Late in embryogenesis, MP but not BDL was expressed in the central root cap, which was the only conspicuous difference between the two gene expression patterns (Fig. 3I,J, arrowheads). Since thebdl stabilizing mutation mimics the mp early-embryo phenotype, we examined the possibility that bdl might interfere with MP transcription. However, MP was expressed in the proembryo cells of bdl mutant early embryos (Fig. 3K,L), indicating that the bdl mutation does not abolish expression of the MP gene.  The bdl mutation causes an embryonic phenotype, whereas the identical mutation in the IAA3 gene only leads to a postembryonic defect that was opposite to its loss-of-function phenotype (CITATION). This raised the possibility that transcriptional regulation of IAA genes may limit their in vivo interactions with ARF proteins. We therefore compared the expression patterns of BDL and IAA3 promoter sequences that were transcriptionally fused to the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter (CITATION). In contrast toBDL∷GUS (Fig. 4A–D),IAA3∷GUS expression was not detectable before the mid-torpedo stage of embryogenesis (Fig. 4E–H). Different expression patterns were also observed in seedlings (Fig. 4, cf. I and J; see alsoCITATION for IAA3∷GUS expression). Thus, transcriptional regulation can account for the phenotypic difference between identical mutations in two different IAA genes by limiting the choices of potential interaction between IAA and ARF proteins.  [[FIGURE]] Our results suggest that BDL and MP are interacting IAA and ARF proteins that are required for root meristem initiation in early embryogenesis. They act genetically in the same pathway, can interact physically, and are expressed in the same cells. Most IAA proteins, including IAA12, were shown to repress auxin response in the carrot protoplast transient expression assay (CITATION). Furthermore, mutations in domain II that stabilize IAA proteins resulted in the inhibition of auxin-responsive reporter gene expression (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; for review, see CITATION). Conversely, ARF5 encoded by theMP gene acts as an activator of auxin-responsive genes in carrot protoplasts (CITATION; CITATION), suggesting that loss-of-function mutations in the MP gene eliminate the capacity of ARF5 to activate auxin-responsive genes (CITATION). Thus, failure to initiate the root meristem in early embryogenesis results from either of two genetic alterations: a stabilizing mutation of the auxin-response inhibitor BDL, or loss of the auxin-response activator MP. These observations suggest a simple model for their developmental action in early embryogenesis. BDL and MP may form a complex that prevents MP from activating target genes. BDL protein would be degraded in response to auxin, thus releasing MP.  Both BDL and MP are expressed in the proembryo cells but not in the adjacent hypophysis which normally initiates root meristem formation. This observation suggests that an auxin-dependent signal needs to be relayed from the proembryo to the adjacent extraembryonic cell, which in response switches to the hypophyseal cell fate (CITATION). It remains to be determined whether this apparent noncell autonomous effect of MP involves activation of auxin-response target genes that would then mediate signaling to the adjacent cell. Alternatively, MP protein may be transported into the presumptive hypophysis, which would be analogous to the movement of the SHORT ROOT transcription factor from the provascular cells to the adjacent ground tissue layer (CITATION). 
!~MM~! Plant growth conditions and the bdl mutant allele have been described (CITATION). From a cross betweenbdl/BDL (Ler) and wild type (Nd), 480 bdlmutant F2 seedlings were selected to map the gene against CAPS or SSLP markers (www.arabidopsis.org). After the interval was narrowed down to a small region at the top of chromosome I, wild-type and mutant alleles of the candidate gene were sequenced. Genomic fragments from 2.4 kb upstream of the translation start to 0.75 kb downstream of the BDL gene were amplified by PCR from wild-type and bdl mutant genomic DNA, using a Roche High Fidelity amplification kit (primer sequences, 5′-GGTTGGACTTGC TAAGCACTG-3′ and 3′-CCATGTGGTAGTGTCGAGAAGG-5′). Fragments were subcloned in pGEM (Promega), sequenced, and transferred in pBAR vector by cutting with Eco52I, blunting and ligating via the SmaI site of the vector (CITATION). Constructs were introduced into A. tumefaciens strain GV 3101 (CITATION). Plants were transformed using the floral-dip method, and transgenic seedlings were selected on plates (2.1 g MS salts per L [Duchefa], 1% bactoagar, 1% sucrose) or soil, using 4 mg/L phosphinotricin (CITATION).  RNA in situ hybridization was performed as described, except that Western Blue (Promega) was used for staining (CITATION). The fragment for the BDL antisense probe was amplified by PCR, and restriction sites for HindIII/XhoI were introduced (primer sequences, 5′-TTCT CGAGGAATTTCGAGAGCCATTGAGTGG-3′ and 3′-AACAAGCTTAGTCCACTAGCTTCT GAGGTTCC-5′). The fragment was inserted in pBssk−(MBI). Linearization of the antisense probe was done with Bsp120I and transcription with T3 RNA polymerase (hydrolysis time 37 sec; Promega transcription kit). Clones forMP antisense probes were transcribed as described (CITATION).  Full-length cDNA was amplified from the BDL cDNA by PCR, and BamHI/XbaI restriction sites were introduced at the ends (5′-CGG GATCCATGCGTGGTGTGTCAGAATTG-3′ and 3′-GCTCTAGACTA AACAGGGTTGTTTCTTTGT-5′). The fragment was then inserted in frame in the transfection vector RT103 and sequenced. Nuclear (NLS-GFP) and cytosolic (NES-GFP) controls were provided by K. Harter (University of Freiburg, Germany). Parsley protoplasts were isolated and transformed as described (CITATION).  The cDNA encoding the C terminus of MP (amino acids 753–902) was amplified from a flower/young silique cDNA library (primer sequences, 5′-CCGCTCGAGTTATGAAACAGAAGTCTTAAG-3′ and 3′-CCGGA ATTCGATTTTGATGATTGTAGTCTG-5′), subcloned in pGEM (Promega) and sequenced before in-frame insertion in yeast two-hybrid vectors pJG4-5 or pEG202 via EcoRI/XhoI restriction sites (CITATION). BDL was amplified from a full-lengthBDL cDNA clone by PCR (primer sequences, 5′-CGGAATTCATGCGTGGTGTGTCAGAATTG3′ and 3′-GCCTCGAGCTAAACAGGGTTGTTTCTTTGT-5′), andEcoRI/XhoI sites were introduced. The fragment was subcloned in pGEM and sequenced before in-frame insertion in pJG4-5 or pEG202 via EcoRI/XhoI sites. The GNOM (amino acids 1–246) control construct has been described (CITATION). For yeast transformation, cultures, and assays, standard techniques were employed as described (CITATION).  Promoter GUS fusions were generated by replacing the 35S promotor of pVKH35sGUSpA with PCR-amplified 1.76 kb or 1.96 kb fragments upstream of the translational start sites of IAA3 andIAA12 genes (IAA35′-CGCGAGCTCTCGTTGGTTAAGTGCTAAAAAT-3′, 3′-CGC GGATCCTTCTTCAAGAATTGCAGGAGAA-5′; IAA125′-CGCGAG CTCTATGCCGTATAGTTCGTATCAA-3′, 3′-CGCGGATCCGTCAAT AACAAAACCCTAGACT-5′; CITATION). ABamHI site was introduced at one end while the other was cleaved with either PvuII (IAA 12) or HincII (IAA3). The promoter fragment was cloned in the plant transformation vector pVKH35sGUSpA via BamHI/Ecl136I (IAA12) or BamHI/HincII (IAA3). Agrobacterium and plant transformations were performed as described above. Transgenic embryos and 4-day-old seedlings were stained with variable concentrations of potassium ferricyanide/ferrocyanide (0.5, 1, 2 mM each) for up to 20 h (CITATION). Stained embryos were cleared in a chloralhydrate:water:glycerol solution (8:2:1), stained seedlings were cleared as described (CITATION).  Microscopic analysis was done on a Zeiss Axiophot or a Leica confocal laser scanning microscope with TCS-NT imaging software (Leica); pictures were taken with a Nikon Coolpix 990 camera. Primer design and sequence analysis were performed using Mac-Vector (Kodak Imaging Systems) and Vector NTI (Informax). Database searches were done using the BLAST algorithm (CITATION). Images were processed with Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator (Adobe Systems). 
