!~ABS~! 1-Deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate reductoisomerase (DXR) catalyzes the first committed step of the 2-C-methyl-d-erythritol 4-phosphate pathway for isoprenoid biosynthesis. In Arabidopsis, DXR is encoded by a single-copy gene. We have cloned a full-length cDNA corresponding to this gene. A comparative analysis of all plant DXR sequences known to date predicted an N-terminal transit peptide for plastids, with a conserved cleavage site, and a conserved proline-rich region at the N terminus of the mature protein, which is not present in the prokaryotic DXR homologs. We demonstrate that Arabidopsis DXR is targeted to plastids and localizes into chloroplasts of leaf cells. The presence of the proline-rich region in the mature Arabidopsis DXR was confirmed by detection with a specific antibody. A proof of the enzymatic function of this protein was obtained by complementation of anEscherichia coli mutant defective in DXR activity. The expression pattern of β-glucuronidase, driven by theDXR promoter in Arabidopsis transgenic plants, together with the tissue distribution of DXR transcript and protein, revealed developmental and environmental regulation of theDXR gene. The expression pattern of theDXR gene parallels that of the Arabidopsis 1-deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate synthase gene, but the former is slightly more restricted. These genes are expressed in most organs of the plant including roots, with higher levels in seedlings and inflorescences. The block of the 2-C-methyl-d-erythritol 4-phosphate pathway in Arabidopsis seedlings with fosmidomycin led to a rapid accumulation of DXR protein, whereas the 1-deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate synthase protein level was not altered. Our results are consistent with the participation of the Arabidopsis DXR gene in the control of the 2-C-methyl-d-erythritol 4-phosphate pathway.
!~RES~! The cDNA sequences encoding Arabidopsis DXR reported to date were incomplete at the 5′ end (CITATION; CITATION). To determine the 5′ end of the DXR transcript, we performed 5′-RACE using total RNA from 12-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings as a template. Sequencing of four clones derived from the major amplification product showed a single 5′ end that corresponds to the adenine at position +1 of the full-length cDNA sequence deposited in GenBank (accession no. AF148852). This information, together with previous sequence data, allowed the design of PCR primers to amplify a cDNA encoding the entire Arabidopsis DXR. The protein predicted from this cDNA contains 477 amino acid residues and has a molecular mass of 52 kD. The alignment of the cDNA sequence with the corresponding genomic sequence (clone MQB2, accession no. AB009053) revealed the organization of the Arabidopsis DXR gene. This gene maps in chromosome 5 and contains 12 exons and 11 introns extending over a region of 3.2 kb. A databank search showed that no additional sequence homologous to the DXR gene exists in the completely sequenced Arabidopsis genome. In agreement, the pattern of bands obtained in Southern-blot analysis performed under high- and low-stringency conditions, with a 0.84-kb SalI-EcoRV cDNA fragment as a probe, perfectly fits to that predicted from the MQB2 clone (data not shown). It can be concluded that Arabidopsis DXR is encoded by a single-copy gene and that the probe used is DXR specific. To characterize the sequence of the N-terminal region of Arabidopsis DXR, we aligned this sequence with the equivalent region of the plant DXRs known to date and the E. coli DXR. As shown in Figure1, the plant enzyme contains an extension of 73 to 80 residues that is not present in the prokaryotic sequence. Data analysis with the ChloroP program (CITATION) predicted a transit peptide for plastids in all plant DXR sequences (Fig. 1). In 11 of the 14 transit peptides, the processing site was predicted at the N terminus of a conserved Cys-Ser-X motif, where X means any of the hydrophobic residues Ala, Val, or Met. The regions at the N- or C-terminal side of the putative processing site have different structural features. At the N-terminal side, the sequence is poorly conserved but enriched in Ser residues, features that are typical of plastid transit peptides (CITATION). In contrast, the extended region at the C-terminal side (positions 50–80 of Arabidopsis DXR) is highly conserved and particularly rich in Pro residues (Fig. 1). The number of Pro residues in this region ranges from 6 to 8. The consensus motif P(P/Q) PAWPG(R/T) A can be defined in the Pro-rich region of plant DXR (positions 60–68 of the Arabidopsis sequence). The collective sequence analysis suggests that all plant DXRs have a transit peptide for plastids, are processed at a conserved cleavage site, and contain an extended Pro-rich region at the N terminus of the mature protein, which is not present in prokaryotic DXR.  [[FIGURE]] To demonstrate that the isolated Arabidopsis cDNA encodes a functional DXR, we complemented an E. coli lethal mutant defective in the dxr gene (CITATION). As expected, this mutant can be rescued by expression of plasmid-encoded E. coli DXR (EcDXR, Fig. 2). In addition, the mutant was rescued by expression of either a short derivative of Arabidopsis DXR (AtDXR-S, residues 81–477), which lacked the entire plant-specific N-terminal region, or a longer version of the protein (AtDXR-L, residues 57–477), which lacked the predicted transit peptide and only the first seven residues of the mature protein (Fig.2). We conclude that the two forms of the Arabidopsis protein have DXR activity. However, AtDXR-L led to a much more vigorous growth than AtDXR-S, as estimated by the colony size (Fig. 2). The same observation was made with dxr mutants generated in two different genetic backgrounds (E. coli strains MC4100 and JC7623). Our results suggest that the N-terminal Pro-rich region of Arabidopsis DXR (residues 57–80) contains elements that are important for activity or stability, at least when expressed in E. coli.  [[FIGURE]] The intracellular targeting of Arabidopsis DXR was studied by transient expression of a construct encoding the entire DXR protein fused to the N terminus of an optimized version of the soluble green fluorescent protein (GFP). Leaves from 15-d-old light-grown Arabidopsis seedlings were microbombarded with this construct. The DXR-GFP fusion protein accumulated in the chloroplasts of leaf cells as shown by its colocalization with chlorophyll autofluorescence (Fig.3, A–C). In a second approach, we analyzed the distribution of DXR in cells from Arabidopsis leaves, using a polyclonal antibody (Ab-AtDXR1) raised against peptide EAPRQSWDGPK, which corresponds to the N-terminal extended region of Arabidopsis DXR (Fig. 1, residues 71–81). Immunogold particles were found in chloroplasts (Fig. 3D) and rarely outside this organelle. These observations, which to our knowledge are the first experimental evidence of plastid localization of plant DXR, are in agreement with the proposed role of this protein in the synthesis of plastid-derived isoprenoids.  [[FIGURE]] As a first step to evaluate the importance of the DXRgene in the control of the MEP pathway, we analyzed the distribution of the DXR transcript and protein in Arabidopsis, studied the accumulation of these molecules in response to particular conditions and characterized the expression pattern of a chimeric construct containing the GUS reporter gene under control of theDXR promoter. Northern-blot analysis of total RNA from different tissues revealed a transcript of about 1.8 kb (Fig.4A), in agreement with the size of full-length DXR cDNA. This transcript is present in all tissues analyzed, but accumulates at higher levels in seedlings and inflorescences (Fig. 4A). Lower transcript levels were observed in leaves of adult plants and roots of 15-d-old seedlings. The lowest transcript level was detected in stems. The DXRtranscript is also present at a high level in the light-grown cell suspension line T87 derived from Arabidopsis leaves (CITATION; Fig. 4A). A good correlation in tissue distribution was found between the 1.8-kb transcript and a 46-kD protein detected by western blot with the Ab-AtDXR1 antibody (Fig. 4B). The DXR protein accumulates at higher levels in 15-d-old seedlings, inflorescences, and fruits, and at lower levels in cauline leaves and stems. The protein is barely detectable in rosette leaves of adult plants. The apparent molecular mass of the immunodetected DXR is consistent with processing at the conserved site described above. The detection of this protein by western blot confirms that the N-terminal Pro-rich sequence is present in the mature form of the Arabidopsis DXR. In addition to the 1.8-kb message, a transcript of about 1.4 kb was detected with theDXR-specific probe in inflorescences (Fig. 4A). The level of the 1.8-kb transcript was much higher in seedlings grown in the light than in seedlings grown in the dark (Fig.5A). The DXR transcript rapidly accumulated upon de-etiolation (Fig. 5B), indicating that the increase in the transcript level was a direct response to light and not an indirect effect of the changes in the morphogenetic pattern.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the DXR protein level was altered in response to a block of the MEP pathway, we treated 7-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings with fosmidomycin, a bleaching herbicide that specifically inhibits DXR (CITATION; CITATION). The level of the DXS protein was also determined for comparison. As shown in Figure6, fosmidomycin treatment caused a sharp increase in DXR protein, whereas the amount of DXS did not change significantly. The maximal level of DXR was observed 1 h after treatment. The progressive decrease of DXR and DXS proteins, observed after 3, 6, and 12 h, might be due to cytotoxicity of the inhibitor (Fig. 6).  [[FIGURE]] The expression pattern of the DXR gene was further studied with transgenic plants carrying a translational fusion between a 1.3-kb fragment of DXR and the entire coding sequence of the GUS reporter gene. The DXR fragment included 1.2 kb of the 5′-flanking region, the entire 5′-transcribed untranslated region (UTR), and the first 6 bp of the DXR coding sequence. Histological analysis of GUS activity was performed in plants from 6 independent lines of generation T2. All the lines showed the same GUS expression pattern with little variation in the intensity of staining. High expression of GUS was observed right after germination (Fig.7A). In the first stages of development in the light, GUS activity was high in the hypocotyl and cotyledons, and less intense in the root with a progressive decline toward the tip (Fig. 7B). High expression was observed in true leaves emerging in subsequent stages of development (Fig. 7C). In etiolated seedlings, GUS staining distributed quite uniformly (Fig. 7D). In adult plants, the highest level of GUS expression was observed in inflorescences (Fig.7E). GUS staining was higher in the gynoecium than in sepals and petals. Upon maturation, the staining of the silique was progressively restricted to the basal and distal ends (Fig. 7F). An intense staining was observed in cauline leaves, in sharp contrast with the adjacent stem (Fig. 7G). Only those parts of the stem proximal to the inflorescences showed blue staining (Fig. 7E). GUS activity was also detected in roots of adult plants (Fig. 7H).  [[FIGURE]] The expression pattern of DXR-GUS transgenic plants was compared with that of transgenic plants carrying the GUSreporter gene under control of the Arabidopsis DXS promoter. The chimeric DXS-GUS construct included 1.7 kb of theDXS 5′-flanking region, the entire 5′-UTR, and 12 bp of theDXS coding sequence. As previously reported (CITATION), the Arabidopsis DXS gene is mainly expressed in developing photosynthetic and non-photosynthetic tissues, but also to some extent in most tissues of the plant. Whereas our results confirm the published data, we observe, in addition, previously unreported high GUS expression driven by the DXS promoter in etiolated seedlings (Fig. 7L), petals and the whole gynoecium (Fig. 7M), cauline leaves (Fig. 7O), and roots of the adult plant (Fig. 7P). Therefore, the GUS expression pattern of the DXS-GUS transgenic plants (Fig. 7, I–P) closely parallels that of the DXR-GUStransgenic plants described above (Fig. 7, A–H). In many instances, however, the staining pattern of DXR-GUS transgenic plants appears to be either more restricted or less intense. This is more evident in the stems and roots of adult plants and in emerging axillary inflorescences (Fig. 7, G, H, O, and P). In emerging inflorescences, the onset of DXS expression clearly precedes that ofDXR (Fig. 7, compare G with O).
!~MM~! All biological material used in this work derived from Arabidopsis plants of the ecotype Columbia. Axenic cultures were prepared by surface-sterilizing seeds in 0.27% (w/v) Bayrochlore (Bayrol Gmb, Planegg, Germany) dissolved in ethanol. Sterile seeds were germinated on petri dishes containing solid Murashige and Skoog medium (ICN Biochemicals Division, Aurora, OH) supplemented with 0.5 g L−1 MES (pH 5.7). Unless otherwise stated, plants were grown under 16-h light/8-h dark illumination regime at 22°C to 24°C on a 1:1:1 (v/v) perlite:vermiculite:sphagnum mixture irrigated with mineral nutrients. Roots were obtained either from adult plants or 3-week-old seedlings grown on filter paper layered onto Murashige and Skoog medium. For treatment with fosmidomycin, seedlings were grown in liquid culture containing Murashige and Skoog medium with 0.1% (w/v) agar under continuous light and agitation. Fosmidomycin (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) was dissolved at 0.1m in 10 mm Tris-HCl (pH 8.5) and added to the culture at a final concentration of 100 μm. Arabidopsis cell suspension line T87 was cultured as described (CITATION). As a first step for the isolation of a full-length Arabidopsis cDNA, we determined the 5′ end of the Arabidopsis DXR transcript. RACE was carried out with 5′-RACE System (version 2.0, Life Technologies/Gibco-BRL, Cleveland) following the instructions of the supplier. The first strand of the cDNA was synthesized using total RNA from 12-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings as a template and the oligonucleotide DXR-GSP1 (Table I) as specific downstream primer. The 3′ end region of the single-stranded cDNA was amplified by two nested PCR reactions. In the first PCR, the specific downstream primer was the oligonucleotide DXR-GSP2 and the upstream primer was the oligonucleotide 5′-RACE-AAP supplied in the kit. In the second PCR, the specific downstream primer was the oligonucleotide DXR-GSP3 and the upstream primer was the oligonucleotide AUAP supplied in the kit. The major amplification product of the second PCR was purified by agarose-gel electrophoresis, cloned, and sequenced.  Oligonucleotides used in this study The full-length Arabidopsis DXR cDNA was amplified from a cDNA library from the cell suspension line T87 by two consecutive PCR reactions. The reaction mixture of the first PCR contained 4 × 105plaque-forming units of the library, 0.5 μm of the primers DXR-34 and DXR-E2, 1.25 units of Pfu DNA polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA), and reaction buffer supplied with the enzyme, in a final volume of 25 μL. After a hot start, the reaction mixture was incubated for 35 cycles consisting of 30 s at 94°C, 40 s at 55°C, and 6.5 min at 72°C, followed by a final step of 15 min at 72°C. An aliquot (0.5 μL) of the resulting sample was used as a template for the second PCR, which was performed in the same conditions as the first, except that the final volume of the reaction mixture was 50 μL and the number of cycles 15. The amplification product was purified by agarose-gel electrophoresis, cloned into plasmid pBluescript SK+, and sequenced. The plasmid containing this cDNA was designated pDXR-At. A modified version of plasmid pBAD-GFPuv (CLONTECH Laboratories, Palo Alto, CA) was generated by removing the NdeI site located at position 4,926 by site-directed mutagenesis (CITATION) with the oligonucleotide pBAD-mut1 as mutagenic primer. The resulting plasmid was designated pBADM1. Arabidopsis DXR cDNA was amplified by PCR with primers 5′-MQQQ and DXR-end to obtain a cDNA fragment coding for a nearly complete mature Arabidopsis DXR (AtDXR-L, positions 57–477 of the protein sequence) or primers 5′-MVKPI and DXR-end to obtain a cDNA fragment coding for a shorter protein (AtDXR-S, positions 81–477). The cDNA fragments were digested withNdeI and EcoRI restriction enzymes and cloned into plasmid pBADM1, previously digested with the same restriction enzymes, to generate plasmids pBAD-AtDXR-L and pBAD-AtDXR-S. In these plasmids, the cloned cDNAs are under control of the pBAD promoter, which can be induced with l-Ara. TheE. coli dxr::TET mutant EcAB1–2 (CITATION) was complemented by transformation with pBAD-AtDXR-L or pBAD-AtDXR-S plasmid. Genomic DNA from 12-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings was prepared as described (CITATION). For Southern-blot analysis, aliquots containing 10 μg of DNA were digested with PstI,ClaI, EcoRV, or EcoRI restriction enzyme, size fractionated by electrophoresis in 0.8% (w/v) agarose gels, and transferred to Hybond C nitrocellulose membranes (Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK). Hybridization was for 18 h at either 65°C (high stringency) or 58°C (low stringency) in 0.7m sodium chloride, 40 mm sodium phosphate (pH 7.6), 4 mm EDTA, 0.1% (w/v) SDS, 0.2% (w/v) polyvinylpyrrolidone, 0.2% (w/v) Ficoll, 9% (w/v) dextran sulfate, and 200 μg mL−1 denatured salmon sperm DNA. The probe used was a 32P-labeled 840-bpSalI-EcoRV fragment excised from the EST clone 120E8T7. High stringency washes were performed at 65°C twice in 1× SSC, 0.5% (w/v) SDS, and twice in 0.2× SSC and 0.5% (w/v) SDS. Low-stringency washes were performed at 58°C twice in 2× SSC and 0.5% (w/v) SDS. Total RNA from Arabidopsis tissues or cells was isolated as described (CITATION). For northern-blot analysis, the RNA samples were fractionated by electrophoresis in a 1% (w/v) agarose gel containing 2.2 m formaldehyde and transferred to Neutral Nylon membrane (Schleicher & Schuell, Keene, NH). Hybridization with the 840-bp probe indicated above was performed for 18 h at 68°C in ExpressHyb hybridization solution (CLONTECH Laboratories). High stringency washes were performed at 68°C twice in 2× SSC and 0.1% (w/v) SDS, and twice in 0.1× SSC and 0.1% (w/v) SDS. The polyclonal antibody Ab-AtDXR1 (Sigma, Cambridge, UK) was raised in a rabbit injected with peptide EAPRQSWDGPK, corresponding to positions 71 through 81 of Arabidopsis DXR. For western-blot analysis, crude protein extracts from Arabidopsis tissues were obtained by harvesting into liquid nitrogen and grinding in ice-cold homogenization buffer (0.1 m Tricine [pH 7.2], 30% [w/v] Suc, 1% [w/v] Ficoll 400, 1 mm EDTA, 1 mm MgCl2, and 10 mm KCl). Protein concentration was determined using a protein reagent (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA) according to the dye-binding procedure (CITATION). Proteins were subjected to SDS-PAGE on 10% (w/v) polyacrylamide gels (CITATION) and either stained with Coomassie Blue or transferred to a Hybond P membrane (Amersham). Arabidopsis DXR was detected with the Ab-AtDXR1 serum (dilution 1:200 [v/v]) as a primary antibody and anti-rabbit immunoglobulin horseradish peroxidase-conjugate (Amersham, dilution 1:10,000 [v/v]) as a secondary antibody. Arabidopsis DXS was detected with the anti-GST-CLA1 ascites fluid (CITATION; 1:500 [v/v]) as a primary antibody and anti-mouse immunoglobulin horseradish peroxidase-conjugate (Amersham, 1:10,000) as a secondary antibody. Chemiluminescent detection was carried out with the ECL+plus system (Amersham), following the recommendations of the supplier. For electron microscopy analysis, Arabidopsis leaf cross-sections were fixed, embedded, and immunolabeled as described (CITATION) with minor modifications. The fixation buffer contained 4% (v/v) paraformaldehyde, 0.1% (v/v) glutaraldehyde, and 0.1 m cacodylate (pH 7.4). Nonspecific antibody sticking was blocked by incubating for 30 min in Tris-buffered saline buffer containing 10 mm Tris-HCl (pH 7.4), 150 mm NaCl, and 1% (w/v) bovine serum albumin. The Ab-AtDXR1 antibody was used at 1:200 (v/v) dilution and the anti-rabbit-gold antibody (15 nm, British BioCell International, Cardiff, UK) at 1:25 (v/v). Specimens were observed in a Hitachi 600 electron microscope (Hitachi, Tokyo). A cDNA fragment containing the Arabidopsis DXR coding sequence was amplified by PCR using plasmid pDXR-At as template and oligonucleotides DXR-SalIA and T7–21 as primers. The amplification product was cloned in pGEM-T plasmid (Promega, Madison, WI) and subsequently transferred as a 1.5-kbSalI-SalI fragment to pGFP-MRC plasmid (CITATION) previously digested with XhoI and SalI. The resulting construct encodes the entire Arabidopsis DXR fused to the N terminus of GFP. Expression of this construct is under control of the CaMV 35S promoter. Leaves of 15-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings were microbombarded with plasmid DNA-coated tungsten particles and examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy as described (CITATION). A 1.3-kb fragment of the DXR 5′-flanking region was amplified by PCR using Arabidopsis genomic DNA as template and the oligonucleotides PRIBASE-XbaI and PRI-1 as primers. The amplification product was cloned in pGEM-T vector (Promega) and sequenced. The insert was recovered as anXbaI-SphI fragment and transferred to plasmid pBI221 (CLONTECH Laboratories), to substitute for theCaMV 35S promoter. The resulting plasmid was named pLBI2PRI1.2. The DXR-GUS chimeric gene of this plasmid contains 1,158 bp of DXR 5′-flanking untranscribed region, the entire DXR 5′-UTR (85 bp), and the first 6 bp of the DXR coding sequence, cloned in phase with the coding region of the E. coli uidA reporter gene. This chimeric gene was recovered as anEcoRI-HindIII fragment and ligated to the equivalent sites of plasmid pBI121 (CLONTECH Laboratories) to produce plasmid pLBI1PRI1.1. A BglII-BglII 2.0-kb fragment corresponding to the 5′-flanking region of the Arabidopsis DXS gene was recovered from plasmid 1C10AP64 and cloned in theBamHI restriction site of plasmid pBluescript SK− (Stratagene). A XbaI site was introduced 12 bp downstream of the ATG translation start site of the genomic fragment by site-directed mutagenesis (CITATION), using the oligonucleotide Mut1CLA1 as mutagenic primer. TheDXS promoter region was recovered as a 2.0-kbHindIII-XbaI fragment and ligated to the equivalent sites of plasmid pBI121, to substitute for the CaMV 35S promoter. The resulting plasmid was designated pLBI1PS2. The DXS-GUS chimeric gene of this plasmid contains 1,738 bp of the DXS 5′-flanking untranscribed region, the entire DXS 5′-UTR (202 bp), and the first 12 bp of theDXS coding sequence, fused in frame to theuidA reporter gene. Arabidopsis transgenic plants carrying either the DXR-GUS or theDXS-GUS chimeric gene were generated and analyzed as described (CITATION). The staining time in the histochemical analysis of GUS activity was 14 to 18 h for samples obtained from DXR-GUS transgenic plants and 6 to 18 h for samples from DXS-GUS plants.
