!~ABS~! Ethylene signaling in Arabidopsis begins at a family of five ethylene receptors that regulate activity of a downstream mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase, CTR1. Triple and quadruple loss-of-function ethylene receptor mutants display a constitutive ethylene response phenotype, indicating they function as negative regulators in this pathway. No ethylene-related phenotype has been described for single loss-of-function receptor mutants, although it was reported that etr1 loss-of-function mutants display a growth defect limiting plant size. In actuality, this apparent growth defect results from enhanced responsiveness to ethylene; a phenotype manifested in all tissues tested. The phenotype displayed by etr1 loss-of-function mutants was rescued by treatment with an inhibitor of ethylene perception, indicating that it is ethylene dependent. Identification of an ethylene-dependent phenotype for a loss-of-function receptor mutant gave a unique opportunity for genetic and biochemical analysis of upstream events in ethylene signaling, including demonstration that the dominant ethylene-insensitive phenotype of etr2-1 is partially dependent on ETR1. This work demonstrates that mutational loss of the ethylene receptor ETR1 alters responsiveness to ethylene in Arabidopsis and that enhanced ethylene response in Arabidopsis not only results in increased sensitivity but exaggeration of response.
!~RES~! Dark-grown hypocotyls and roots of etr1-7 were examined for their responsiveness to ethylene in comparison with Columbia-0 (Col-0) wild type (wt). For hypocotyls, seedlings were grown for 4 d in the presence of 10 μm aminoethoxyvinyl-Gly (AVG; to reduce endogenous ethylene production) and exposed to a broad range of ethylene concentrations. AVG was not used for root growth analysis because it is severely inhibitory to root growth at this concentration (CITATION). As previously described (CITATION), etr1-7hypocotyls displayed reduced hypocotyl elongation in comparison with wt in air and at all concentrations of ethylene tested (Fig.1A). Addition of 100 μm AgNO3 to the growth medium (used to eliminate ethylene perception) completely reversed the short hypocotyl phenotype of etr1-7, resulting inetr1-7 hypocotyls that were indistinguishable from wt with regard to length. This demonstrates that the etr1-7hypocotyl growth inhibition phenotype requires ethylene perception for its manifestation. It is likely that AVG treatment did not completely eliminate ethylene production because etr1-7 hypocotyls were still significantly shorter than wt even in the absence of exogenous ethylene. At a saturating concentration of ethylene, a pronounced difference in hypocotyl length was still observed between wt andetr1-7, indicating that etr1-7 hypocotyls have a greater maximal response than wt.  [[FIGURE]] Replotting of this data as relative hypocotyl inhibition, with each ethylene-treated sample compared with the respective Ag-treated controls (which represent complete elimination of ethylene response), demonstrates that the etr1-7 hypocotyl phenotype results from a combination of an increase in sensitivity and amplitude of response to ethylene (Fig. 1A). This was seen as a 3- to 4-fold higher concentration of ethylene required to give 50% inhibition of hypocotyl elongation for the wt in comparison withetr1-7. In conjunction with this, etr1-7hypocotyls displayed exaggeration of response to saturating levels of ethylene, with etr1-7 hypocotyls exhibiting an extreme level of inhibition not achievable by wt. The ratio of hypocotyl length between etr1-7 and wt was not consistent with what would be expected for a general growth defect because this ratio did not remain constant; instead, the differential between the two increased with increasing ethylene concentration, suggesting greater responsiveness byetr1-7 hypocotyls. Examination of etr1-7 roots revealed that they also have an increase in ethylene sensitivity (Fig. 1B). This was seen as a 4- to 5-fold increase in ethylene concentration required to give 50% root growth inhibition for wt in comparison with etr1-7. Unlikeetr1-7 hypocotyls, though, the roots did not exhibit an exaggerated ethylene response because the length of wt andetr1-7 roots was identical at high concentrations of ethylene. Propylene is an ethylene agonist that elicits ethylene responses when applied at concentrations 100-fold higher than ethylene (CITATION; CITATION). It was determined whetheretr1-7 displayed a similar shift in sensitivity to propylene, which would be consistent with the etr1-7phenotype being dependent on activity of the ethylene-signaling pathway. Dark-grown hypocotyls and roots of both etr1-7 and wt were tested for propylene responsiveness in the same manner as described for ethylene treatment. As shown in Figure 2A, etr1-7hypocotyls demonstrated the same increase in sensitivity to propylene as seen for ethylene treatment. This included a 4-fold increase in propylene concentration required to give 50% growth inhibition for wt in comparison with etr1-7. In addition, etr1-7hypocotyls in the presence of saturating concentrations of propylene exhibited the same exaggeration of response as seen for ethylene treatment.  [[FIGURE]] As shown in Figure 2B, treatment of etr1-7 roots with propylene resulted in the same phenotype seen after ethylene treatment.etr1-7 roots displayed increased propylene sensitivity, with wt requiring 2- to 3-fold higher levels of propylene thanetr1-7 to cause 50% inhibition of root growth. In addition, as with ethylene treatment, there was no exaggeration of response to propylene in etr1-7 roots. Although the reversal of the short hypocotyl phenotype of etr1-7 by Ag treatment suggests that theetr1-7 phenotype is ethylene dependent, it was necessary to demonstrate that Ag treatment did not stimulate an ethylene-independent increase in hypocotyl elongation. Seedlings of the ethylene-insensitive mutant etr1-1, along with wt, etr1-7, and the constitutive ethylene response mutant ctr1-3, were grown in the dark for 4 d either in the presence or absence of Ag and hypocotyl length was subsequently measured (Fig.3A). It was found that onlyetr1-7 hypocotyls demonstrated an increase in length with Ag treatment, suggesting that Ag treatment does not stimulate ethylene-independent growth.  [[FIGURE]] In addition, effects of Ag on growth of the triple loss-of-function ethylene receptor mutants were assessed. Both mutants exhibit a constitutive ethylene response independent of exogenous ethylene. Ag treatment had little effect on hypocotyl length of dark-grownetr1-7;etr2-3;ein4-4, with this mutant demonstrating only a slight increase in length after Ag treatment (Fig.3A). In contrast, treatment ofetr2-3;ein4-4;ers2-3 with Ag resulted in almost complete reversal of the mutant phenotype to that of wt, suggesting that hypocotyl shortening in this mutant is not due to a constitutive ethylene response but rather results from hypersensitivity to ethylene. This indicates that this combination of receptors is not required for maintaining CTR1 activity in Arabidopsis. It was also of interest to determine if exaggeration of ethylene response was unique to etr1 loss-of-function mutants. Dark-grown triple loss-of-function ethylene receptor mutants were treated with 10 μm ACC and compared with both Col-0 and Wassilewskija-0 (Ws-0) wt (Fig. 3B). It was found that both triple loss-of-function mutants displayed the same exaggerated ethylene response as demonstrated byetr1-7.  etr1 loss-of-function mutants were previously described as having reduced leaf expansion (CITATION), a phenotype that can be ethylene dependent (CITATION; CITATION). To assess whether this reduced leaf expansion may be related to increased ethylene responsiveness, expression of ethylene-regulated genes was tested for both wt and etr1-7leaves after a 24-h exposure to either subthreshold levels of ethylene or propylene (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Northern analysis of 10 μg of total RNA for each sample was performed. Treatment with either 500 nL L−1 ethylene or 500 μL L−1 propylene resulted in substantially higher expression of both basic chitinase and PDF1.2 in leaves of etr1-7 in comparison with wt (Fig.4A). In addition, there appeared to be higher expression of these genes even in the absence of exogenous ethylene in etr1-7 leaves as compared with wt, suggesting that the etr1-7 leaves may be hypersensitive to even the low level of endogenous ethylene normally produced by the plant.TUA3, an Arabidopsis tubulin, was used as a loading control and showed no obvious difference in expression from sample to sample. These results are consistent with etr1-7 leaves having an increased sensitivity to ethylene and ethylene agonists.  [[FIGURE]] To determine if the exaggeration of response observed inetr1-7 hypocotyls was also demonstrated in leaves,etr1-7 and wt leaves were exposed to air or a saturating level of ethylene (100 μL L−1) for 24 h and expression patterns of the previously described ethylene inducible genes were assessed (Fig. 4B) by northern analysis of 5 μg of total RNA. Both exposure time and amount of total RNA used were reduced compared with the previous experiment to allow for visualization of differences in level of expression between wt and the mutant at this high level of ethylene. Tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) 18s rDNA was used as a loading control and showed no discernible difference in expression. In contrast, for both ethylene-regulated genes, treatment with a saturating level of ethylene resulted in a greater maximal level of expression in leaves ofetr1-7 compared with wt, demonstrating thatetr1-7 leaves also exhibit exaggeration of response to ethylene in conjunction with the observed increase in sensitivity. One possible explanation for the apparent change in the ethylene responsiveness of the etr1-7 mutant was that it represents an overproducer of ethylene. This phenotype would not be consistent, though, with observations made in Figure 1, in which etr1-7hypocotyls give an exaggerated ethylene response in the presence of the ethylene biosynthesis inhibitor AVG. Ethylene generated by dark-grown seedlings of Col-0 wt, Ws-0 wt, ctr1-3, and the published loss-of-function receptor mutants was collected for 12 h and measured using a gas chromatography system. As shown in Figure5, there was no significant difference in ethylene production for Col-0 wt, etr1-7, etr2-3, or ein4-4, demonstrating that ethylene overproduction cannot be the basis for the observed phenotype for etr1-7. In contrast, ers2-3, a mutation in the Ws-0 background that has no apparent ethylene-related phenotype, produced 3- to 4-fold more ethylene than Ws-0 wt. Analysis of ethylene production by the triple loss-of-function receptor mutants revealed that they produced levels of ethylene at or below what was measured for Col-0 and Ws-0 wt seedlings.  [[FIGURE]] It was not clear why only etr1 loss-of-function mutants have increased ethylene responsiveness. One possibility was that the other loss-of-function receptor mutants had increased expression of one or more of the remaining functional receptors to compensate for the respective genetic lesions. To test this, northern analysis of 10 μg of total RNA isolated from leaves of Col-0 wt, Ws-0 wt,etr1-7, etr2-3, and ein4-4 was performed to assess the expression patterns of four of the ethylene receptors with TUA3 being used as a loading control. As shown in Figure 6, there was little variation in the expression of ETR1,ETR2, EIN4, ERS1, and TUA3in all samples tested, except for a slight increase in ETR1expression in etr2-3 and apparent nonsense-mediated decay of receptor mRNA in the corresponding loss-of-function receptor mutants.  [[FIGURE]] It is possible that the apparent importance of ETR1 in ethylene signaling is due to a unique ability of ETR1 to directly regulate CTR1 activity, which can be speculated due to a previously reported association between ETR1 and CTR1 (CITATION). Loss of a primary regulator of CTR1 activity may result in the enhanced responsiveness displayed by etr1 loss-of-function mutants. Both a yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid assay and an in vitro binding experiment were performed to determine if a class 2 ethylene receptor such as ETR2 can interact with CTR1. For the yeast two-hybrid assay, a fusion of the Gal4p DNA-binding domain to ETR2193-773(DB-ETR2193-773), representing the soluble region of ETR2, was tested for its ability to interact with a fusion of the Gal4p activation domain with CTR11-463(AD-CTR11-463), which represented the amino terminus of CTR1. Although weak, it was consistently found that co-incubation of DB-ETR2193-773 with AD-CTR11-463 resulted in activation of the two reporter genes used in this assay. This included increased capability to grow in the absence of supplied His along with increased β-galactosidase activity in comparison with controls (Fig.7A).  [[FIGURE]] To support the findings of the yeast two-hybrid assay, an in vitro binding assay was performed using a fusion of MBP to CTR153-568, which represents the amino-terminal regulatory domain of CTR1—a region previously shown to interact with the ethylene receptors ETR1 and ERS1 in this assay (CITATION). Either 5 or 25 μL of35S-Met-labeled ETR2193-773were incubated with 5 μg of bacterially expressed MBP or MBP-CTR153-568 bound to amylose resin in vitro. Samples were subsequently washed to remove nonspecific binding and analyzed by SDS-PAGE to determine if the radiolabeled test protein associated with the MBP fusions. Addition of 5 μL of radiolabeled ETR2193-773 resulted in weak binding to MBP-CTR153-568 with no binding to the MBP control (Fig. 7B). A similar pattern of binding occurred when 25 μL of probe was used. Identification of an ethylene-dependent phenotype for a loss-of-function mutation in a single ethylene receptor gave the means to determine if there is an epistatic relationship betweenETR1 and the other receptors in ethylene signaling. A cross between etr1-7 and the dominant ethylene-insensitive mutantetr2-1 (CITATION) was made to assess the relationship between ETR1 and ETR2. F2 progeny were screened for those with long hypocotyls on 10 μm ACC, with these representing lines that carried the etr2-1 mutation. PCR genotyping of seedlings that displayed the etr2-1 phenotype was subsequently performed to identify seedlings that were also homozygous for the etr1-7 mutation. Of these, two independent lines were determined to beetr1-7;etr2-1 double mutants and were subsequently analyzed for the capability of the etr2-1mutation to reverse the etr1-7 phenotype. Growth of this double mutant in the dark in the absence of ACC resulted in no apparent differences in hypocotyl and root lengths compared with wt andetr2-1 (Tables I andII), which is consistent with the previous observation that the etr1-7 phenotype is reversible by an inhibitor of ethylene perception. In contrast, treatment with 10 μm ACC resulted in a partial ethylene response in the etr1-7;etr2-1 double mutant in comparison with etr2-1 (Tables I and II; Fig.8). The increased responsiveness was displayed in both the hypocotyl and the root of the double mutant, indicating that ETR2 function may be dependent on ETR1.  Hypocotyl lengths of dark-grown ethylene mutants Root lengths of dark-grown ethylene mutants [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! For all seedling growth experiments, seeds were surface sterilized and cold stratified at 4°C for 4 d in the dark to synchronize germination. Seeds were then suspended in 0.15% (w/v) agarose and sown on plant nutrient medium plus Suc (CITATION). The medium was supplemented with ACC (Sigma, St. Louis), 10 μm AVG (Sigma), or 100 μm AgNO3(Sigma) as required. For triple response experiments, seedlings were germinated for 4 d in the dark at 20°C. In experiments using ACC, petri dishes were oriented vertically for seedling growth. All adult plants in this study were grown in soil under a 24-h light cycle at 20°C in a plant growth room supplemented with Gro-Lite fluorescent bulbs (Sylvania, Danvers, MA). Ethylene and propylene experiments were done as previously described (CITATION). For treatment of leaves for RNA extraction, adult plants were grown for 4 weeks in air in the previously described plant growth room and then treated with air, ethylene, or propylene in an airtight chamber (Plas Labs, Lansing, MI) for 24 h. Immediately after treatment, leaf tissue was collected and quick frozen for RNA extraction. Exactly 100 surface-sterilized seeds were placed in 5-mL glass scintillation vials containing 0.5 mL of plant nutrient medium plus Suc. Uncapped vials were placed into a sterile covered beaker and incubated in the dark for 72 h at 20°C. The vials were then sealed in the dark with a rubber syringe cap for collection of generated ethylene. After a 12-h incubation period, 0.9 mL of headspace was sampled from each vial and the ethylene content was measured using a 6850 series gas chromatography system (Hewlett-Packard, Palo Alto, CA) equipped with a HP Plot alumina-based capillary column (Agilent Technologies, Palo Alto, CA). Tissue fresh weight was measured for each sample. Total RNA was extracted from leaf tissue using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). Total RNA (10 μg for all experiments except for analysis of gene expression under saturating concentrations of ethylene, where 5 μg of total RNA was used) was separated by electrophoresis in a 1% (w/v) denaturing agarose gel, and the gel was blotted to Zeta-Probe GT Blotting Membrane (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA).32P-Labeled probes were generated using the Prime-a-Gene labeling system (Promega, Madison, WI). Prehybridization and hybridization were both carried out at 42°C and washes were done at 42°C and 65°C following the manufacturer's instructions. Results were visualized by autoradiography. For the yeast two-hybrid assay, yeast strain L40 was used as previously described (CITATION). Protein fusions were made either to the DNA-binding domain of the bacterial repressor LexA (plexA-NLS) or to the Gal4 transcription activation domain (pACTII). β-Galactosidase activity was quantified using a chlorophenol red-β-d-galactopyranoside-based assay according to manufacturer's instructions (CLONTECH, Palo Alto, CA). MBP fusion proteins were generated and isolated as previously described (CITATION). Radiolabeled ETR2193-773, which represented the soluble portion of ETR2, was synthesized using the TnT T7 Coupled Transcription/Translation System (Promega) using [35S]Met. Assays were performed as previously described (CITATION). Double mutants were generated by crossing etr1-7(male) to etr2-1 (female). F2 progeny were grown in the dark on 10 μm ACC to isolate ethylene-insensitive individuals (which were either homozygous or heterozygous for etr2-1). Identified individuals were subsequently genotyped by PCR to identify those that were homozygous for the etr1-7 mutation. F3 progeny were grown in the dark on 10 μm ACC to identify lines homozygous for the etr2-1 mutation.
