!~ABS~! During photosynthesis, plants must control the utilization of light energy in order to avoid photoinhibition. We isolated an Arabidopsis mutant, pgr5 (proton gradient regulation), in which downregulation of photosystem II photochemistry in response to intense light was impaired. PGR5 encodes a novel thylakoid membrane protein that is involved in the transfer of electrons from ferredoxin to plastoquinone. This alternative electron transfer pathway, whose molecular identity has long been unclear, is known to function in vivo in cyclic electron flow around photosystem I. We propose that the PGR5 pathway contributes to the generation of a ΔpH that induces thermal dissipation when Calvin cycle activity is reduced. Under these conditions, the PGR5 pathway also functions to limit the overreduction of the acceptor side of photosystem I, thus preventing photosystem I photoinhibition.
!~RES~! Steady-state chlorophyll fluorescence captured by a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera was compared between the wild-type and pgr5 at a light intensity of 300 μE/m2s CITATION . Light energy absorbed by light-harvesting pigments is transmitted to the PSII reaction center, where a small part of energy is emitted as chlorophyll fluorescence. The fluorescence level is indicative of the excitation state of PSII reaction center and thus lowered by the utilization of light energy (photochemical quenching). At high light intensity, excitation energy of chlorophyll molecules in antennae is dissipated as heat (thermal dissipation) and is not transmitted to the reaction center. This regulatory process induces the quenching of chlorophyll fluorescence and is the main cause of nonphotochemical quenching (NPQ) in higher plants CITATION. Although chlorophyll fluorescence was lowered in the wild-type, pgr5 still emitted a high level of chlorophyll fluorescence under the same light conditions CITATION. With respect to seedling size, pgr5 showed normal photoautotrophic growth when growing on soil at a low light intensity (50 μE/m2s). Photosynthetic electron transport was characterized in detail by comparing the light intensity dependence of chlorophyll fluorescence parameters between pgr5 and the wild-type using pulse-amplitude modulated (PAM) chlorophyll fluorometry CITATION. PAM facilitates quantitative analysis of the fluorescence signal, which is utilized in the calculation of each parameter (see Experimental Procedures for details). The relative electron transport rate (ETR) through PSII was not affected in pgr5 at low light intensities below 100 μE/m2s CITATION and is consistent with the normal growth rate at 50 μE/m2s. However, the ETR was near saturation point at 300 μE/m2s in the wild-type and was saturated at 100 μE/m2s at the lower level (60% of the maximum ETR in the wild-type) in pgr5 CITATION. NPQ was induced with an increase in light intensity in the wild-type; however, this induction was significantly reduced in pgr5 CITATION. NPQ is caused mainly by the thermal dissipation of excitation energy from PSII, which is triggered by lumenal acidification. This ΔpH-dependent NPQ is characterized by its rapid relaxation kinetics, occurring within 3 min in the dark. Although a small amount of NPQ (0.8) was induced in pgr5 at 800 μE/m2s, it failed to relax within 3 min in the dark (data not shown), indicating that the NPQ formed in pgr5 did not depend on ΔpH. The remaining NPQ in pgr5 may possibly be due to photoinhibition and/or the movement of peripheral light-harvesting antennae from PSII to PSI (state transition). Thermal dissipation is induced by the acidification of the thylakoid lumen, which is caused by the transport of electrons through the cytochrome b6f complex. The induction of thermal dissipation is impaired, most likely by the restricted electron transport rate at high light intensity. This situation was evident in the cytochrome b6f mutant, pgr1, characterized by CITATION. To specify the pgr5 defect in photosynthetic electron transport, it is informative to monitor the electron flow through PSI during steady-state photosynthesis, as well as that through PSII monitored by chlorophyll fluorescence CITATION. CITATION shows the redox state of the PSI reaction center (P700) in the light. P700 is reduced in the dark, but is oxidized to P700+ by PSI photochemistry in the light. Oxidation can be monitored by absorbance changes at 830 nm CITATION. We examined the light intensity dependence of the P700 oxidation ratio (ΔA/ΔAmax) in the wild-type and pgr5 CITATION. The maximum level of P700+ (ΔAmax) was determined by far-red light illumination, which preferentially activates PSI photochemistry. In the wild-type, P700 was oxidized at a close to linear rate with increasing light intensity. This is due to the downregulation of PSII photochemistry (thermal dissipation) and the restriction of electron transport at the cytochrome b6f complex. The P700 redox state was indistinguishable between pgr5 and the wild-type at light intensities below 100 μE/m2s; however, it was dramatically lowered with increasing light intensities in pgr5 CITATION. The low P700 oxidation ratio in pgr5 may be caused by the reduction of P700+ by electrons that have returned from a series of acceptor side electron carriers in PSI (A0, A1, FX, and FA/FB). This phenomenon is referred to as a charge recombination of P700 and is caused by the overreduction of electron acceptors from PSI, ferredoxin, and NADP+ CITATION. A charge recombination of P700 can also be caused by a nonfunctional acceptor chain in PSI CITATION. In the former case, the P700+ level can be restored by the addition of methyl viologen (MV), which is an artificial electron acceptor from PSI. We used MV at a low concentration (2 μM) to avoid the possibility of direct electron acceptance from P700 CITATION. In the presence of MV, the P700 oxidation ratio in pgr5 was similar to that in the wild-type at a light intensity of 800 μE/m2s CITATION. The chlorophyll fluorescence parameters, ETR and NPQ, were also restored by adding MV (data not shown). These results indicate that limited electron acceptance from PSI caused a charge recombination of P700 in pgr5 rather than a nonfunctional acceptor chain in PSI. To confirm that PSI activity in pgr5 is unaffected, linear electron transport to NADP+ was measured in ruptured chloroplasts with exogenous electron acceptors CITATION . The electron transport rate was estimated as the quantum yield of PSII (ΦPSII), which is calculated from chlorophyll fluorescence parameters CITATION. When MV was added as an artificial electron acceptor, the ΦPSII was identical in pgr5 and the wild-type at light intensities of 50 μE/m2s and 200 μE/m2s. Ferredoxin and NADP+ were also added to mimic in vivo electron transport conditions. The ΦPSII remained unchanged in pgr5 at both light intensities. We conclude that the PSI activity, including electron donation to ferredoxin and subsequent NADP+ reduction, is not affected in pgr5. The pgr5 mutation was mapped to the north region of chromosome II, between the molecular markers RNS1 and SNP184 CITATION . Genomic sequences of genes containing predicted plastid-targeting signals (predicted by Predotar; http://www.inra.fr/Internet/Produits/Predotar/) from pgr5 and the wild-type were compared. A nucleotide substitution was found in the second exon of the gene (At2g05620/T20G20.3 in CITATION). The mutation led to an amino acid substitution from glycine to serine. At2g05620 encodes a protein consisting of 133 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of 14 kDa. Highly homologous proteins were found in other photosynthetic organisms, including soybean, rice, volvox, Chlamydomonas, and Synechocystis PCC6803 CITATION, but not in nonphotosynthetic organisms such as Escherichia coli and yeast. The program ChloroP 1.1 (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP/) predicted the cleavage site of the transit peptide to be after the 44th amino acid. To confirm that the pgr5 phenotype was due to the mutation in At2g05620, pgr5 was transformed with the wild-type genomic sequence of At2g05620. The normal chlorophyll fluorescence level was restored in the transformant lines (T2 in CITATION). Restoration of the normal electron transport activity was also confirmed by analysis of PAM chlorophyll fluorometry and the P700 oxidation ratio in the light (data not shown). To characterize the gene product PGR5, antibodies were raised against a synthetic oligopeptide of PGR5. Western analysis revealed a 10 kDa protein, which was absent in pgr5 (CITATION, lanes 1 and 2). In complemented pgr5 mutant lines, the 10 kDa protein was present (CITATION, lane 3), confirming that the signal corresponded to PGR5. The 10 kDa peptide is consistent with the predicted mature form of PGR5 (9.8 kDa) minus its transit sequence CITATION. Although the pgr5 mutation leads to a minor amino acid substitution from glycine to serine, the mutated form of PGR5 is unstable in vivo (CITATION, lane 2). Chloroplasts purified from wild-type leaves were subjected to Western analysis. When the sample load was standardized for chlorophyll content, an equal signal intensity of PGR5 was detected for total leaf proteins and chloroplast proteins (CITATION, lanes 1 and 4). The result confirms that PGR5 is present in chloroplasts. To determine the PGR5 localization in chloroplasts, chloroplast preparations were further fractionated into soluble proteins (stroma fraction) and thylakoid membranes. The PGR5 signal was detected in the thylakoid membrane but not in the stroma fraction (CITATION, lanes 5 and 6). From this result we conclude that PGR5 is a thylakoid membrane protein. Computer-aided analysis failed to reveal a transmembrane region in PGR5, suggesting that PGR5 associates with the thylakoid membranes peripherally or via interaction with other thylakoid membrane proteins. In pgr5, electron acceptance from PSI was impaired specifically at high light intensity. However, the electron transport activity to NADP+ via ferredoxin was not affected CITATION. The normal photoautotrophic growth rate in pgr5 CITATION suggests that PGR5 is not involved in the main pathway of photosynthetic electron flow to CO2. PGR5 may function in alternative electron transport pathways, which become important when electron acceptance by NADP+ is limited. To assess this possibility, alternative electron flow capacity was estimated based on the level of P700+ under artificial air conditions CITATION . In CO2-free air, inhibition of CO2 assimilation leads to depletion of NADP+, which stimulates alternative electron transport activity. We also measured the P700+ level in N2 gas (CO2- and O2-free air), where O2-dependent alternative pathways, including photorespiration and electron transport to O2 (water-water cycle), were inhibited. Photorespiration involves an unnecessary consumption of NADPH and ATP due to the oxygenase activity of ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase under certain conditions. Such activity causes a relaxation in the overreduction of the stroma CITATION. The water-water cycle is triggered by the photo-reduction of O2 to superoxide, which can also act as an alternative electron acceptor from PSI (reviewed in CITATION). Since both O2-dependent pathways are inhibited in N2 gas, we have been able to estimate the capacity of O2-independent pathways, including cyclic electron flow around PSI. The strategy for determining the capacity of alternative electron flow estimated from the P700+ level is represented by the pattern that the wild-type produces in the air CITATION. A saturating xenon flash of 50 ms (SF) will instantly oxidize P700 to a high level by PSI photochemistry. This is followed by the rapid reduction by electrons from PSII, and subsequently the steady-state oxidation level is gradually restored. The top of the peak generated by SF represents the maximum P700+ level during actinic light (AL) illumination (ΔAmaxAL). When electron acceptors from PSI (oxidized ferredoxin or O2) are limited during actinic light illumination, the maximum P700+ level decreases due to electrons returning from acceptor side electron carriers in PSI (A0, A1, FX, and FA/FB). In contrast, a xenon flash under the weak, far-red light (FR) background will cause the full oxidation of P700 (ΔAmaxFR) CITATION. Thus, the limitation in electron acceptors from PSI can be evaluated as a decrease in ΔAmaxAL/ΔAmaxFR. In this assay, we used a low actinic light intensity (50 μE/m2s) at which electrons are predominately used for CO2 fixation in the air. In air, ΔAmaxAL/ΔAmaxFR was approximately 1 in both the wild-type and pgr5, indicating that electron acceptors from PSI were not limited in both plants CITATION. In CO2-free air, acceptor limitation was not observed in the wild-type (ΔAmaxAL/ΔAmaxFR = 1), indicating electrons were drained via an alternative electron transport from PSI. However, in pgr5, the ΔAmaxAL/ΔAmaxFR was lowered to 0.6, indicating electrons were trapped for a longer period of time in PSI due to the reduced activity of the alternative electron transport. In N2 gas, acceptor limitation was observed even in the wild-type (ΔAmaxAL/ΔAmaxFR = 0.5), indicating that O2-dependent pathways function as significant electron acceptors from PSI in CO2-free air. If the pgr5 is defective in O2-dependent alternative electron transport pathways, the levels of ΔAmaxAL/ΔAmaxFR in N2 gas should be identical between pgr5 and the wild-type. However, electron acceptors were more severely limited in pgr5 (ΔAmaxAL/ΔAmaxFR = 0.3) than in the wild-type. To confirm that PGR5 functions in the alternative electron flow from PSI, O2-free air was supplemented with a high concentration (0.5%) of CO2. Under these conditions, electrons were preferentially used for CO2 fixation, and electron acceptance from PSI was almost completely restored in both the wild-type and pgr5 (ΔAmaxAL/ΔAmaxFR = 0.9). These results indicate that pgr5 is defective in at least the O2-independent alternative pathway. The contribution of the PGR5-related alternative pathway(s) is physiologically significant in draining electrons from PSI under acceptor-limiting conditions, such as in CO2-free air. The most likely alternative pathway involving PGR5 is the cyclic electron flow around PSI, which mediates the electron transport from ferredoxin to plastoquinone CITATION . To assess this possibility, the cyclic electron transport activity of donating electrons to plastoquinone from ferredoxin was assayed with ruptured chloroplasts in the dark. Plastoquinone reduction was monitored as an increase in chlorophyll fluorescence emitted by the exposure of light with a very low intensity (1.0 μE/m2s). At this light intensity, the fluorescence level predominately reflects the reduction of plastoquinone by cyclic electron transport from ferredoxin, not by PSII photochemistry. While the addition of NADPH induced only a slight increase of chlorophyll fluorescence in the wild-type, the addition of ferredoxin induced a significant increase with relatively fast kinetics (t = 22 s; t is the time required to reach the maximum reduction level) CITATION. In this assay system, NADPH is essential for electron donation to ferredoxin via the reverse reaction of ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase (FNR) CITATION. In contrast, the increase in chlorophyll fluorescence was slower in pgr5 (t = 38 s) and was achieved at a much lower level. These results indicate that ferredoxin-plastoquinone reductase activity was impaired in pgr5. There is physiological evidence that antimycin A inhibits cyclic electron transport activity CITATION. To assess the possibility that antimycin A could mimic the pgr5 phenotype, we analyzed the effects of antimycin A in our assay system. The kinetics of plastoquinone reduction were impaired by adding antimycin A. The increase in chlorophyll fluorescence was delayed significantly in a wild-type background (t = 79 s), mimicking the delay seen in pgr5, although the final reduction level was higher CITATION. In pgr5, the kinetics of plastoquinone reduction were not affected further by adding antimycin A (t = 38 s). These results indicate that PGR5 functions in a cyclic electron flow around PSI, which is inhibited by antimycin A. PGR5 is a novel thylakoid protein CITATION, and its destabilization affects the activity of cyclic electron transport around PSI CITATION. It is possible that PGR5 is an accessory subunit of major complexes of the photosynthetic electron transport, which functions preferentially in cyclic electron transport around PSI. To assess this possibility, PGR5 levels were analyzed in several mutants lacking the major thylakoid membrane complexes, F1F0 ATPase (dpa1), the cytochrome b6f complex (hcf118), PSI (hcf101), and PSII (hcf107) CITATION. CITATION shows that PGR5 accumulated at levels comparable to those of the wild-type. We conclude that PGR5 can accumulate independently of the major complexes of the photosynthetic electron transport. We also performed reciprocal Western analysis to evaluate the stability of the major photosynthetic complexes in pgr5 CITATION. Accumulation of PSII subunits (D2, CP43, PsbO, and PsbP), those of the cytochrome b6f complex (Cyt b6 , Rieske, and subunit 4), or a PSI subunit (PsaE) were not affected in pgr5. This is consistent with the results indicating that linear electron flow was not affected in pgr5 CITATION. Together with the immunological data CITATION, the results described above led us to conclude that PGR5 can stably accumulate independently of PSI, PSII, the cytochrome b6f complex, and F1F0 ATPase and that the destabilization of PGR5 does not affect the accumulation of these complexes. Cyclic electron flow around PSI is thought to downregulate PSII activity by acidifying the thylakoid lumen. To demonstrate the function of the PGR5 pathway in the induction of NPQ, we monitored NPQ induction during the dark-to-light (80 μE/m2s) transition. CITATION shows NPQ induction patterns in the air for the wild-type, pgr5, and the mutant npq4-1, which cannot induce thermal dissipation due to the lack of PsbS, an essential, specific subunit for thermal dissipation CITATION. In the wild-type, NPQ (0.8) was transiently induced within 1 min and relaxed to 0.2 within 2 min postinduction CITATION. In contrast, npq4-1 lacked this rapid and transient induction of NPQ, indicating that NPQ is related to thermal dissipation. Thermal dissipation is induced by the acidification of the thylakoid lumen, which occurs as a consequence of balance between the generation and relaxation of ΔpH. Thus, thermal dissipation is observed during the induction period of photosynthesis, when the relaxation of lumenal acidification by ATPase activity is not fully induced. NPQ was rapidly relaxed in the light, because 80 μE/m2s was insufficient to induce thermal dissipation during steady-state photosynthesis. Interestingly, pgr5 completely lacked this transient increase in NPQ CITATION, indicating that the thylakoid lumen was not acidified enough to induce thermal dissipation. CITATION shows NPQ induction in CO2-free air in the wild-type, pgr5, and npq4-1. In the wild-type, NPQ was induced up to 1, and was not relaxed during actinic light illumination in CO2-free air because the relaxation of lumenal acidification was suppressed by reduced CO2-fixation activity. Due to the defect in PsbS, npq4-1 could not induce thermal dissipation under such conditions. A marginally higher NPQ (0.4) was induced in pgr5 than in npq4-1. A part of the remaining NPQ in pgr5 was relaxed in the dark within 1 min. Although pgr5 can induce a small amount of thermal dissipation, the level was much lower than that induced in the wild-type. This result suggests that pgr5 cannot acidify the thylakoid lumen when the CO2-fixation activity is reduced. Under conditions in which the availability of NADP+ is limited, such as during the dark-to-light transition and in CO2-free air, thermal dissipation was induced by lumenal acidification generated by the PGR5-dependent alternative electron flow. One of the typical features of pgr5 was the reduced state of P700 at a high light intensity CITATION. It has been suggested that reduction of P700 in light can lead to photodamage of PSI under stress conditions such as low temperature CITATION. To assess the high-light sensitivity of PSI in pgr5, plants grown at 50 μE/m2s were exposed to a high light intensity (1500 μE/m2s) for 10 min CITATION . To monitor the PSI damage, the maximum level of P700+ was measured by a xenon flash under a far-red light background, before and after high light illumination. The decrease in the P700+ level after high light illumination is caused not only by photoinhibition of PSI but also by an overreduced stromal state CITATION and the activated cyclic electron flow CITATION. To evaluate the extent of PSI photoinhibition, MV was infiltrated into the apoplast of leaves after the high-light treatment. Electron acceptance from PSI by MV restored the maximum oxidation of P700. In the wild-type, less than 10% of PSI was damaged, whereas in pgr5, up to 60% of PSI was damaged. We also determined the extent of PSII photodamage by measuring the maximum PSII activity (a chlorophyll fluorescence parameter, Fv/Fm). PSII photodamage was only slightly greater in pgr5 than in the wild-type. These results indicate PSI photodamage occurs prior to PSII photodamage in pgr5. We conclude that the PGR5 pathway is essential for the photoprotection of PSI.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana wild-type (ecotype Columbia gl1) and pgr5 were grown on soil under growth chamber conditions (50 μE/m2s, 16 hr light:8 hr dark cycles at 23°C) for 4–5 weeks. pgr5 was previously referred to as CE11-1-1 CITATION. An image of chlorophyll fluorescence was captured by a CCD camera after 1 min illumination of AL (300 μE/m2s), as described previously CITATION. Chlorophyll fluorescence parameters were measured using a MINI-PAM portable chlorophyll fluorometer (Walz, Effeltrich, Germany). The minimum chlorophyll fluorescence at the open PSII center (Fo) was determined by measuring light (655 nm) at a light intensity of 0.05–0.15 μE/m2s. A saturating pulse of white light (800 ms) was applied to determine the maximum chlorophyll fluorescence at closed PSII centers in the dark (Fm) and during AL illumination (Fm′). The steady state of the chlorophyll fluorescence level (Fs) was recorded during AL illumination (20–800 μE/m2s). The φPSII at the maximum level and during steady-state photosynthesis were calculated by equations (Fm − Fo) / Fm and (Fm′ − Fs) / Fm′, respectively. The relative rate of electron transport (ETR) through PSII was calculated as φPSII × light intensity (μE/m2s). NPQ was calculated as (Fm − Fm′) / Fm′. The redox change of P700 assessed by monitoring absorbance at 830 nm was measured with a PAM chlorophyll fluorometer (Walz, Effeltrich, Germany) equipped with an emitter-detector unit ED 800T as previously described CITATION. P700+ (ΔA) was recorded during red light illumination (>650 nm). The maximum contents of P700+ (ΔAmax) were determined using a xenon discharge lamp (50 ms, 1500 Wm-2) under a far-red light background (720 nm, 0.66 μE/m2s). Leaves of 4- to 5-week-old plants were homogenized in a medium containing 330 mM sorbitol, 20 mM Tricine/NaOH (pH 7.6), 5 mM EGTA, 5 mM EDTA, 10 mM NaCO3, 0.1% (w/v) BSA, and 330 mg/l ascorbate. After centrifugation for 5 min at 2000 × g, the pellet was resuspended in 300 mM sorbitol, 20 mM HEPES/KOH (pH 7.6), 5 mM MgCl2, and 2.5 mM EDTA. Intact chloroplasts were purified by passing through 40% Percoll. Intact chloroplasts (10 μg chlorophyll/ml) were osmotically ruptured in a medium containing 50 mM HEPES/NaOH (pH 7.6), 7 mM MgCl2, 1 mM MnCl2, 2 mM EDTA, 30 mM KCl, and 0.25 mM KH2PO4. Linear electron transport activity was measured in AL with electron acceptors, 25 μM MV or 5 μM ferredoxin purified from maize, and 1 mM NADP+. Ferredoxin-dependent plastoquinone reduction activity was measured in ruptured chloroplasts as previously described CITATION. As electron donors, 5 μM maize ferredoxin and 0.25 mM NADPH were used. The pgr5 mutation was mapped using molecular markers based on a cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence CITATION and simple sequence length polymorphism CITATION. Genomic DNA was isolated from F2 plants derived from the cross between pgr5 (genetic background of Columbia gl1) and the wild-type (Landsberg erecta). Homozygous F2 plants (pgr5/pgr5) exhibiting the high chlorophyll fluorescence phenotype were selected as described previously CITATION. At2g05620 was amplified by PCR using Ex Taq DNA polymerase (Takara, Kyoto, Japan) from the genomic DNA of the wild-type and pgr5. The PCR products were directly sequenced using a dye terminator cycle sequencing kit and an ABI prism377 sequencer (Perkin-Elmer, Norwalk, CT). For complementation of the pgr5 mutation, the wild-type genomic sequence including At2g05620 was amplified from the BAC clone T20G20 (from ATCTTGTGATCATGTGGTGC to CCAAGCGCATTAGAAGAAGA). The PCR product was subcloned into pBI101. The resulting plasmid was introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens pMP40 strain and then into homozygous pgr5 plants. Total cellular protein (8 μg) was fractionated through 15% SDS-PAGE and transferred to nitrocellulose membrane. Immunodetection with antibodies against an individual subunit of PSII, PSI, and the cytochrome b6f complex was performed as described in CITATION. PGR5 was detected using rabbit antibodies prepared against a peptide antigen, ADAKQRQGLIRLAKKNGERL, conjugated with keyhole limpet hemocyanin.
