!~ABS~! Lipid analysis of rosette leaves from Arabidopsis has revealed an accumulation of triacylglycerol (TAG) with advancing leaf senescence coincident with an increase in the abundance and size of plastoglobuli. The terminal step in the biosynthesis of TAG in Arabidopsis is catalyzed by diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1; EC 2.3.1.20). When gel blots of RNA isolated from rosette leaves at various stages of development were probed with the Arabidopsis expressed sequence tag clone, E6B2T7, which has been annotated as DGAT1, a steep increase in DGAT1 transcript levels was evident in the senescing leaves coincident with the accumulation of TAG. The increase in DGAT1 transcript correlated temporally with enhanced levels of DGAT1 protein detected immunologically. Two lines of evidence indicated that the TAG of senescing leaves is synthesized in chloroplasts and sequesters fatty acids released from the catabolism of thylakoid galactolipids. First, TAG isolated from senescing leaves proved to be enriched in hexadecatrienoic acid (16:3) and linolenic acid (18:3), which are normally present in thylakoid galactolipids. Second, DGAT1 protein in senescing leaves was found to be associated with chloroplast membranes. These findings collectively indicate that diacylglycerol acyltransferase plays a role in senescence by sequestering fatty acids de-esterified from galactolipids into TAG. This would appear to be an intermediate step in the conversion of thylakoid fatty acids to phloem-mobile sucrose during leaf senescence.
!~RES~! Changes in the levels of DGAT1 transcript and its cognate protein during development and senescence of Arabidopsis rosette leaves were examined by northern- and western-blot analysis, respectively. The DGAT1 EST clone E6B2T7 was used as a probe for northern analysis. The alignment of E6B2T7 with the genomic sequence for DGAT1 is illustrated in Figure 1. Western blots were probed with polyclonal antibodies raised against a synthetic peptide corresponding to the last 17 amino acids of the C terminus of DGAT1 (Fig. 1).  [[FIGURE]] Photographs of Arabidopsis rosettes harvested from 2- through 6-week-old plants are illustrated in Figure2A. At 2 weeks of age, the rosette leaves are still small, but they enlarge substantially between 2 and 4 weeks of age. By week 5, leaf senescence has engaged, and at week 6 the leaves are visibly yellow reflecting significant depletion of chlorophyll as senescence progresses (Fig. 2A). DGAT1 transcript was detectable in total RNA preparations from all ages of rosette leaves, indicating that there is a basal level of constitutive DGAT1 expression (Fig. 2B). However, the abundance of DGAT1 mRNA changed during leaf development. Specifically, levels were lowest for 2-week-old plants, higher for 3- and 4-week-old plants and then increased again reaching very high levels in the visibly yellow leaves of 6-week-old plants (Fig. 2B). Similar changes in the abundance of DGAT1 protein were evident as well. The protein was present in low amounts in leaves from 2-, 3-, and 4-week-old plants, and then increased sharply through weeks 5 and 6, coincident with the onset of senescence (Fig. 2D). The expected size of the DGAT1 protein is 51 kD, and in some experiments, the native 51-kD protein was detectable. However, the polypeptide routinely detected in western blots probed with DGAT1 antiserum was only 29 kD in size (Fig. 2D) and is presumably a proteolytic catabolite of the native protein.  [[FIGURE]] The extent to which DGAT1 is expressed in organs other than rosette leaves was assessed by western-blot analysis. Total protein from roots, stems, non-rosette leaves, flowers, and siliques collected from 6-week-old plants was fractionated by SDS-PAGE and blotted on polyvinylidene difluoride membranes. At this stage of development, the stems and non-rosette leaves had not begun to senesce, the flowers were a mixture of senescing and non-senescing inflorescences, and the siliques were developing but had not yet reached maturity. Probing the blots with DGAT1 peptide antiserum revealed that the protein is present in all of these organs, although it is most abundant in roots and siliques and least abundant in non-rosette leaves (Fig.3).  [[FIGURE]] Five distinct classes of lipid, viz., polar lipid, diacylglycerol (DAG), free fatty acids, TAG, and a mixture of steryl and wax esters, were discernible in thin layer chromatograms of total lipid extracts from the rosette leaves of 3- and 6-week-old plants. In both cases, polar lipids consisting of a mixture of phospholipids and galactolipids were dominant, accounting for 84.76% ± 1.34% of the total fatty acid complement in young leaves and 53.03% ± 5.45% of total in senescing leaves. The lower proportion of polar lipids in the senescing leaves reflects higher amounts of neutral lipids, and this was quantified by expressing the fatty acid equivalents of each neutral lipid as a proportion of the polar lipid fatty acid complement (Fig. 4). The concentrations of DAG, free fatty acids, TAG, and steryl/wax esters relative to polar lipids all proved to be much higher for senescing leaves than for young leaves. Steryl/wax esters and TAG proved to be the most abundant neutral lipids in the extract for senescing leaves, whereas DAG and free fatty acids were the most abundant in the extract for young leaves (Fig. 4). Specifically, the ratios of steryl/wax esters and TAG to polar lipid were 30- and 13-fold higher, respectively, in senescing leaves than in young leaves. For DAG and free fatty acids, the corresponding ratios were 3- and 4-fold higher in senescing leaves (Fig. 4). The steryl/wax ester isolate includes lipids from the cuticle, which thickens as the leaves develop and senesce (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] Of particular interest is the finding that there is approximately 13 times more TAG relative to polar lipid in the senescing 6-week-old rosette leaves than in the 3-week-old rosette leaves, for this is consistent with the senescence-related up-regulation of DGAT1. In absolute terms, TAG fatty acid equivalents constitute 12.33% ± 2.20% of the total fatty acid complement in the senescing leaves and only 2.02% ± 0.12% in the young leaves. As well, the fatty acid composition of TAG in senescing leaves is distinguishable from that of young leaves. For young leaves, the major TAG fatty acids proved to be palmitic acid (16:0), stearic acid (18:0), and erucic acid (22:1; Fig.5A). By contrast, for senescing leaves, the dominant TAG fatty acids included palmitic acid, as for young leaves, as well as linolenic acid (18:3) and hexadecatrienoic acid (16:3; Fig. 5A). Linolenic acid and hexadecatrienoic acid, which are normally associated with the galactolipids of chloroplast membranes (CITATION), collectively accounted for 45.03% ± 1.69% of the total TAG fatty acid complement in the 6-week-old senescing leaves (Fig. 5A). Thus, the TAG in the older leaves would appear to be formed at least in part from fatty acids originating from chloroplast membranes.  [[FIGURE]] Unlike TAG, for polar lipids, the fatty acid composition remained relatively unchanged as senescence was engaged in the rosette leaves. The major fatty acids associated with the polar lipids proved to be palmitic acid (16:0) and the two polyunsaturated fatty acids, linoleic acid (18:2) and linolenic acid (18:3; Fig. 5B). These collectively accounted for 82.22% ± 0.48% of the total polar lipid fatty acid complement for young leaves and 81.59% ± 4.74% of the total for senescing leaves. For young and senescing leaves, linolenic acid was the dominant fatty acid in the polar lipid fraction (Fig. 5B). Inasmuch as linolenic acid is the major fatty acid of galactolipids, this indicates, as expected, that galactolipids are a substantial component of the polar lipid isolate. The presence of hexadecatrienoic acid (16:3) in the polar lipid fraction also signifies the presence of galactolipids, for this fatty acid is uniquely chloroplastic in 16:3 plants such as Arabidopsis (CITATION). The finding that TAG from senescing rosette leaves of 6-week-old plants contains high levels of fatty acids derived from chloroplastic membranes suggests that the newly synthesized TAG is formed within chloroplasts. This contention is additionally supported by electron microscopic observations indicating greatly increased abundance and size of plastoglobuli in the chloroplasts of 6-week-old senescing rosette leaves in comparison with those of young rosette leaves (Fig.6). Plastoglobuli are known to contain TAG and are thought to be formed coincident with the dismantling of thylakoid membranes in senescing chloroplasts (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] That DGAT1, the protein mediating the terminal step in TAG synthesis, is associated with chloroplasts was confirmed by western-blot analysis. Chloroplasts were isolated from 4.5-week-old rosette leaves and subfractionated into membranes, a composite of thylakoid and envelope membranes, and stroma. Purity of the isolated chloroplasts was confirmed by western-blot analysis using antiserum for formate dehydrogenase, a marker for mitochondria (Colas des Francs-Small et al., 1993), cytochrome P450-cinnamate-4-hydroxylase, a marker for endoplasmic reticulum (CITATION), and cytochromef, a marker for thylakoids (CITATION). Each of formate dehydrogenase, cytochrome P450-cinnamate-4-hydroxylase and cytochromef were detectable in immunoblots of microsomal membranes (Fig. 7). The presence of cytochrome P450-cinnamate-4-hydroxylase and cytochromef in microsomes is in keeping with the fact that this fraction comprises small vesicles formed during tissue homogenization from all cellular membranes, including endoplasmic reticulum and thylakoids. Formate dehydrogenase is a mitochondrial matrix enzyme which would be released into the cytosol during homogenization (Colas des Francs-Small et al., 1993), and its presence in the microsomal fraction reflects the fact that cytosol is occluded within microsomal vesicles as they are formed. However, only cytochrome f was detectable in intact chloroplasts indicating that this fraction is essentially free of intact mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum (Fig.7). Because formate dehydrogenase is a mitochondrial matrix enzyme and would not reveal the presence of mitochondrial membrane vesicles in the intact chloroplast fraction, levels of cytochrome c oxidase activity, a marker enzyme for mitochondrial inner membrane (CITATION), were measured in microsomal membranes and intact chloroplasts. The specific activity of cytochrome c oxidase in the intact chloroplast fraction was only 1/25 that of microsomal membranes, indicating that the purified chloroplast fraction is also essentially free of mitochondrial membrane. A further indication of the purity of the intact chloroplast fraction is the fact that cytochromef, a marker for thylakoid membranes, is highly enriched in intact chloroplasts relative to microsomal membranes in immunoblots of the two fractions loaded with constant protein (Fig. 7).  [[FIGURE]] Immunoblots of chloroplasts and their purified subfractions probed with DGAT1 antiserum revealed that the protein is present in intact chloroplasts, enriched in the purified chloroplast membrane fraction, but not detectable in stroma (Fig. 8). Only the large 55-kD subunit of Rubisco is evident in Figure 8A inasmuch as the small 14-kD subunit ran off the end of the gel under the conditions of electrophoresis deployed.  [[FIGURE]] DGAT1 was also detectable in vesicles of endoplasmic reticulum. Microsomal membranes isolated from developing siliques were fractionated by centrifugation through a linear Suc gradient. Western-blot analysis of sequentially removed fractions revealed a parallel distribution of cytochrome P450-cinnamate-4-hydroxylase, a marker for endoplasmic reticulum, and DGAT1 along the gradient (Fig.9). In these experiments, both the native DGAT1 protein, which has an expected molecular mass of 51 kD, and the 29-kD proteolytic catabolite of the native protein were detectable (Fig. 9). When microsomal membranes from rosette leaves of 4.5-week-old-plants were similarly fractionated and analyzed by western blotting, DGAT1 was not detectable in gradient fractions containing cytochrome P450-cinnamate-4-hydroxylase.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis, ecotype Columbia, were grown in Promix BX soil (Premier Brands, Brampton, ON, Canada) in 6-inch pots. Freshly seeded pots were maintained at 4°C for 2 d and then transferred to a growth chamber operating at 22°C with 16-h light/8-h dark cycles. Lighting at 150 μmol radiation m−2s−1 was provided by cool-white fluorescent bulbs. Rosette leaves were harvested after 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 weeks of growth. Roots, stems, non-rosette leaves, flowers, and siliques were collected from 6-week-old plants. Harvested tissue was either used immediately or frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C. Total RNA for northern-blot analysis was isolated from Arabidopsis rosette leaves according to CITATION. The RNA was fractionated on a 1% (w/v) agarose gel and transferred to nylon membranes (CITATION). Immobilized RNA was hybridized overnight at 42°C with radiolabeled DGAT1 EST clone E6B2T7 (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, Ohio State University, Columbus). E6B2T7 was labeled with [α-32P]dCTP using a random primer kit (Roche Molecular Biochemicals, Summerville, NJ). The hybridized membranes were washed twice in 2× SSC containing 0.1% (w/v) SDS at 42°C for 15 min and twice in 1× SSC containing 0.1% (w/v) SDS at 42°C for 30 min. Hybridization was visualized by autoradiography after an overnight exposure at −80°C. Antibodies were raised in a rabbit against a DGAT1 peptide (CVLLYYHDLMNRKGSMS), which corresponds to the C terminus of the native protein. The carrier protein, keyhole limpet hemocyanin, was conjugated to the N-terminal Cys of the peptide usingm-maleimidobenzoyl-N-hydroxysuccinimide ester according to CITATION and CITATION. The rabbit was injected four times at 2-week intervals with the linked peptide. Two weeks after the final injection, serum was collected. Antibodies were column-purified, and the titer was tested against remaining peptide. Antibodies were also raised against cytochrome P450-cinnamate-4-hydroxylase fusion protein. For this purpose, the cDNA sequence of mung bean (Vigna radiata) cytochrome P450-cinnamate-4-hydroxylase (accession no.L07634) was amplified by PCR, subcloned into pGEX-5X-3, a glutathione-S-transferase fusion protein expression vector, and expressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3). The fusion protein was purified from E. coli extract using glutathione-agarose beads and used as an antigen for generation of polyclonal antibodies in rabbit. Polyclonal antibodies against formate dehydrogenase were generously provided by Dr. Catherine Colas des Francs-Small (UniversitéParis-Sud, Orsay cedex, France). Rosette leaf, stem, non-rosette leaf, root, flower, and silique tissues were homogenized (0.5 g mL−1) in buffer (50 mm 4–2(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazine propane sulfonic acid [EPPS], pH 7.4, 0.25 m sorbitol, 10 mmEDTA, 2 mm EGTA, 1 mm dithiothreitol [DTT], 10 mm amino-n-caproic acid, 1 mmphenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride [PMSF], 1 mm benzamine, and 1 mm chymostatin) in a mortar and pestle. The homogenates were filtered through Miracloth, and protein was quantified according to CITATION. SDS-PAGE was performed on Mini protein Dual Slab cells (Bio-Rad, Mississauga, Ontario), and the gels were stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R250 (CITATION) or transferred to polyvinylidene difluoride membranes using the semidry transfer method (semidry transfer cell, Bio-Rad). The blots were blocked for 30 s in 1 mg mL−1 polyvinyl alcohol (CITATION) and for 1 h in phosphate-buffered saline containing 0.05% (v/v) Tween 20 and 5% (w/v) powdered milk. Primary antibody was diluted 1:500 in phosphate-buffered saline containing 0.05% (v/v) Tween 20 and 1% (w/v) powdered milk. Antigen was visualized using secondary antibody coupled to alkaline phosphatase (Chemicon, Temecula, CA) and the phosphatase substratesp-nitroblue tetrazolium chloride and 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate-p-toluidine salt (Bio-Rad). Intact chloroplasts were purified from 4.5-week-old Arabidopsis rosettes according to CITATION. In brief, 20 g of leaves from plants dark-treated for 24 h were floated on ice water for 30 min, blotted dry, and homogenized with an Omnimixer (Sorvall Products, Newtown, CT) in 200 mL of homogenization buffer (0.45 msorbitol, 20 mm Tricine-KOH [pH 8.4], 10 mmEDTA, 10 mm NaHCO3, and 0.05% [w/v] NaN3). The homogenate was filtered through Miracloth and centrifuged at 280g for 90 s, and the pellets were resuspended in 1 mL of ice-cold resuspension buffer (0.3 msorbitol, 20 mm Tricine-KOH [pH 7.6], 5 mmMgCl2, 2.5 mm EDTA, and 0.025% [w/v] NaN3). This suspension was layered on a Percoll gradient and centrifuged in an HB-4 rotor at 13,300g for 6 min. The lower diffuse band comprising intact chloroplasts was collected with a glass pipette, washed once in resuspension buffer, and resuspended in 1 mL of resuspension buffer. Chloroplast membranes were obtained as described by CITATION. Gradient-purified chloroplasts from 20 g of leaf tissue were pelleted and lysed in 1 mL of lysis buffer (10 mmTricine, pH 7.6, containing 5 mm MgCl2) on ice in the dark for 30 min. At the end of this period, 1 mL of 2× resuspension buffer was added, and the chloroplast membranes (a composite of envelope membranes and thylakoids) were pelleted by centrifugation at 13,000g for 10 min in a microfuge. The membrane pellet was washed three times to remove any contaminating stroma by resuspension in 1.5 mL of resuspension buffer and centrifugation at 13,000g for 10 min in a microfuge. The final membrane pellet was suspended in 0.5 mL of resuspension buffer. Microsomal membranes from rosettes and developing siliques were fractionated on a continuous Suc gradient. For isolation of microsomes, rosette leaves (10 g) from 4.5-week-old Arabidopsis plants were homogenized in 100 mL of buffer (3 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 2 mm EDTA, 250 mm mannitol, 2 mm DTT, 1 mm PMSF, and 5% [w/v] polyvinylpyrrolidone) for 45 s in a Sorvall Omnimixer and for an additional minute in a Polytron homogenizer. Developing siliques (5 g) from 6-week-old plants were homogenized in 50 mL of the same buffer, first in a mortar and pestle with glass beads, and then, as for leaves, for 45 s in a Sorvall Omnimixer and for an additional minute in a Polytron homogenizer. The homogenates were filtered through four layers of cheesecloth and centrifuged at 8,000g for 20 min at 4°C. The supernatant was collected and centrifuged at 100,000g for 1 h at 4°C. The resulting pellets of microsomal membranes were resuspended in 6 mL of storage buffer (6 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 10% [w/v] glycerol, 250 mm mannitol, 2 mm DTT, and 1 mmPMSF), layered on a continuous Suc density gradient (10%–40%, w/v) and centrifuged in a SW-28 rotor (Beckman Coulter, Inc., Fullerton, CA) at 70,000g for 2 h at 4°C. Fractions (20 drops fraction−1) were collected, and 10 μL from each fraction was used to determine the Suc concentration with a hand refractometer (Bausch & Lomb, Rochester, NY). The fractions were diluted five times with storage buffer and centrifuged at 100,000g for 1 h at 4°C, and the pellets were resuspended in 100 μL of storage buffer. For lipid analysis, 20 g of rosette leaf tissue from 3- or 6-week-old Arabidopsis plants were homogenized in 60 mL of buffer (50 mm EPPS, pH 7.4, 0.25 m sorbitol, 10 mm EDTA, 2 mm EGTA, 1 mm DTT, 10 mm amino-n-caproic acid, and 4% [w/v] polyvinylpolypyrrolidone) for 45 s in a Sorvall Omnimixer and for an additional minute on a Polytron homogenizer. The homogenate was filtered through four layers of cheesecloth and centrifuged at 3,000g for 10 min. The resulting sediment largely consisted of starch because the tissue homogenization was of sufficient intensity to disrupt cell organelles, which, if intact, might partially sediment under these conditions of centrifugation. The supernatant was collected and used for lipid extraction. Total lipids were extracted according to CITATION. Internal standards (diheptadecanoyll-α-phosphatidylcholine, diarachidin, heptadecanoic acid, triheptadecanoic acid, and cholesteryl arachidate) were added before extraction. Lipid extracts were fractionated by thin layer chromatography (CITATION), and the separated lipids were visualized with iodine vapor and identified using authentic standards. Fatty acids of the separated lipid fractions were transmethylated (CITATION), and the resultant fatty acid methyl esters were quantified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (HP-5890 series II gas chromatograph equipped with a DB Wax column; 30- × 0.25-mm i.d., 0.25-μm film, J&W Scientific, Folsom, CA) and a mass detector (HP-5970) with a scan range of m/z 35–150 operating at 0.16 s/scan. The oven temperature was initially held at 80°C for 5 min and then increased at 10°C per min to 100°C (held for 10 min), 160°C (held for 20 min), and finally 220°C (held for 51 min). Segments of tissue (approximately 2 mm2) cut from the center of rosette leaves from 3- and 6-week-old Arabidopsis plants were vacuum-infiltrated with 0.02 m sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.2) and fixed in 4% (w/v) gluteraldehyde in 0.02m sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.2) overnight at 4°C. The samples were then washed four times in 0.02 m phosphate buffer (pH 7.2), post-fixed in 1% (w/v) osmium tetroxide in 0.02 m phosphate buffer (pH 7.2) for 2 h at 4°C, and washed four times in water for 30 min. They were then dehydrated in a graded series of acetone, washed four times in 100% (w/v) acetone for 30 min, and embedded in Epon-Araldite. Ultrathin sections (70–90 nm) were stained in lead citrate and uranyl acetate and examined with an electron microscope (CM 10, Philips, Eindhoven, The Netherlands) operating at 60 kV. Cytochrome c oxidase was assayed as described byCITATION.
