!~ABS~! A two-membrane system, or envelope, surrounds plastids. Because of the integration of chloroplast metabolism within the plant cell, the envelope is the site of many specific transport activities. However, only a few proteins involved in the processes of transport across the chloroplast envelope have been identified already at the molecular level. To discover new envelope transporters, we developed a subcellular proteomic approach, which is aimed to identify the most hydrophobic envelope proteins. This strategy combined the use of highly purified and characterized membrane fractions, extraction of the hydrophobic proteins with organic solvents, SDS/PAGE separation, and tandem mass spectrometry analysis. To process the large amount of MS/MS data, a blast-based program was developed for searching in protein, expressed sequence tag, and genomic plant databases. Among the 54 identified proteins, 27 were new envelope proteins, with most of them bearing multiple α-helical transmembrane regions and being very likely envelope transporters. The present proteomic study also allowed us to identify common features among the known and newly identified putative envelope inner membrane transporters. These features were used to mine the complete Arabidopsis genome and allowed us to establish a virtual plastid envelope integral protein database. Altogether, both proteomic and in silico approaches identified more than 50 candidates for the as yet previously uncharacterized plastid envelope transporters. The predictable function of some of these proteins opens up areas of investigation that may lead to a better understanding of the chloroplast metabolism. The present subcellular proteomic approach is amenable to the analysis of the hydrophobic core of other intracellular membrane systems.
!~RES~! In total, 54 proteins were identified from 306 nonredundant peptide sequences (Table 1). All known proteins were chloroplastic proteins, thus confirming that no cross contamination from extra-plastidial membranes occurred. No contamination from thylakoids was found. According to their location, four categories of proteins were found: (i) inner envelope membrane proteins, (ii) outer envelope membrane proteins, (iii) peripheral and stroma proteins, and (iv) proteins with unknown subcellular localization. Peripheral and stroma proteins are obviously soluble contaminants, because these contaminants could not be visualized on the stained SDS/PAGE gel (e.g., Rbcl; ref. CITATION). On the other hand, highly hydrophobic proteins were found to be highly enriched in the same SDS/PAGE gel (CITATION). Because of this enrichment and the mass spectrometry sensitivity, it was possible to identify very low abundant, highly hydrophobic proteins. Indeed, we could identify P60, a highly hydrophobic protein [13 predicted transmembrane (TM) domains] representing less than 3% of the C/M soluble envelope proteins (1:100,000th of total cellular proteins).  Features of the identified chloroplast envelope proteins Most (80%) of the identified proteins contain at least 1 predicted TM domain (see Fig. 5, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). The proteins that did not contain any predicted TM domain could be classified in three categories: (i) genuine integral membrane proteins that contain amphipatic β-strands spanning the membrane (e.g., OEP21; ref. CITATION); (ii) peripheral proteins and stroma soluble contaminants; and (iii) genuine envelope proteins that are extracted in C/M solutions because of strong interactions with lipids (Monogalactosyldiacylglycerol synthase; ref. CITATION). Twenty-one proteins were found to have at least four predicted α-helical TM domains. Because no contamination from other membrane systems has been detected, these proteins are part of the highly hydrophobic core of the chloroplast envelope. Except for β-strands containing proteins such as porins, most proteins involved in transport functions bear at least four α-helical TM domains (see AMPL database). Of the 21 identified proteins that exhibit at least 4 predicted TM domains, only 6 proteins have a fully characterized function, and 4 are known to be chloroplast envelope transporters (Table 1). Among the 17 remaining proteins, 10 have a close or remote similarity with characterized transport systems, 1 shares a low similarity with a transferase, and 6 are not related to any known protein. Therefore, regarding the high purity of the chloroplast envelope fraction, the present subproteomics approach allowed us to identify several new chloroplast envelope gene products that are very likely transporters. Although the present subproteomics strategy was highly specific to the subcellular location, the location of new proteins remained to be validated. As controls, two of the most minor highly hydrophobic proteins, P60 and P45, were considered for immunolocalization experiments. As shown in Fig. FIG-REFA, both proteins were immuno-detected in the envelope fraction. No reaction was detected in the chloroplast extract, stroma, or thylakoid subfractions. Further experiments demonstrated that P60 and P45 are, in fact, associated with the inner membrane of the chloroplast envelope (Fig. FIG-REFB) and, thus, were called IEP60 and IEP45.  [[FIGURE]] The complete sequence of the spinach IEP60 cDNA was obtained by using rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE)/PCR experiments. If one excludes the 95 N-ter amino acids, the spinach IEP60 amino acid sequence is almost identical (82% identity, 88% similarity) to the Arabidopsis Pht2;1 H+/Pi transporter (ref. CITATION, and see Figs. 6 and 7, which are published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). Therefore, it can be assumed that these proteins are orthologous. Because the Arabidopsis Pht2;1 Pi transporter was previously suggested to be localized in the plasma membrane and involved in the uptake and intercellular movement of Pi in shoot organs (CITATION, CITATION), the question of whether IEP60 is exclusively localized within the chloroplast envelope was addressed. Therefore, transient expression of spinach IEP60 fused to the GFP was performed in Arabidopsis leaves. Two control experiments were included: transient expression (i) of GFP alone, which was targeted to the cytosol, and (ii) of GFP fused to the transit sequence of the RuBisCO small subunit (TP-GFP), which was targeted to the chloroplasts of transformed cells (Fig. FIG-REFC). Fluorescence of IEP60:GFP fusions seems to be more concentrated to the periphery of the chloroplasts. No fluorescence was detected at the periphery of the transformed cells (Fig. FIG-REFC), thus suggesting that the proposed localization of the spinach P60 in the plasma membrane has to be excluded. The spinach IEP60 H+/Pi transporter is, therefore, exclusively located in the inner membrane of the chloroplast envelope. In chloroplasts, active transport functions are located in the inner envelope membrane. Consequently, a protein located in the inner membrane has a greater probability to be a transporter if it is highly hydrophobic. Indeed, the few known transporters of the chloroplast envelope (IEP30, IEP45, IEP33, IEP62, and IEP60) are known to be located in the inner membrane and contain at least four TM α-helices. Their strong hydrophobicity is also revealed by a low number of amino acid residues (Res)/TM value, below 100. Interestingly, these known transporters and other proteins of the inner envelope membrane that were identified during the course of this work exhibit a very high pI (Table 1). Other identified proteins with putative transport function were shown to meet these criteria. To determine whether any correlation exists between the location of the proteins and their physico-chemical properties, the pI and Res/TM values were calculated for each protein listed in Table 1. As shown in Fig. FIG-REF, a strong correlation was found between the location and combined values of pI and Res/TM, especially for the inner membrane proteins. Indeed, only proteins from the inner membrane were found to have both a Res/TM < 100 and pI > 8.8. Knowing that (i) active transport functions are generally located in the inner membrane, (ii) transport systems are highly hydrophobic proteins (TM ≥ 4), and (iii) the present proteomic approach showed that chloroplast envelope proteins having Res/TM < 100 and pI > 8.8 are very likely to be located in the inner membrane, we could assume that chloroplast envelope proteins sharing such properties are very likely to be inner envelope transport systems. Among the proteins identified in the present study and showing these features, eight proteins are homologous to known transporters from various species (IEP62, HP59, HPSOT2, HP36, IEP16, HP25, and HP30), and five have unknown function and location (HP45, HP34, IEP18, HP28, and HP29c). These proteins are, therefore, good candidates for further functional analysis of transport functions in the chloroplast envelope.  [[FIGURE]] The list of previously uncharacterized putative transport systems of the chloroplast envelope is certainly not exhaustive. Nevertheless, the present proteomic approach gave us keys to search for additional putative chloroplast envelope transporters in plant databases. As a matter of fact, all chloroplast proteins have a chloroplast TP, except for some outer envelope membrane proteins and for proteins coded by the chloroplast genome. It should be noted that for TP prediction, ChloroP (CITATION) was found to be the only reliable tool for prediction of TP in inner envelope protein sequences (Table 1). Furthermore, the present study showed that envelope transporters have specific pI, TM, and Res/TM range of values. Some other chloroplast proteins that are located in the thylakoid membranes are highly hydrophobic and have a chloroplast TP. However, database observation showed that thylakoid membrane proteins are generally more acidic proteins. Thus, apart from few exceptions, the combination of (i) the prediction of a chloroplast TP, (ii) Res/TM < 100, (iii) TM ≥ 4, and (iv) pI > 8.8 is characteristic to chloroplast envelope transporters (see Table 1). As these parameters can be predicted by bioinformatic tools from polypeptide sequences, they were used to mine the AMPL database (Fig. FIG-REF).  [[FIGURE]] By using this in silico approach, only 136 proteins (of the 25,498 predicted Arabidopsis proteins) were pointed out. About 35% of these proteins correspond to proteins belonging to plant transporter families (see Table 2, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site) or to proteins homologous to transport systems present in other species (Pi, PEP, glucose-6-P, ATP/ADP, Na+-dependent, Na+/H+, proteins, C4-dicarboxylates, sugars, vitamins, amino acids, etc.). A few percent of these proteins are proteins involved in lipid or pigment metabolisms (see Table 3, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site), providing further evidence for a role of chloroplast envelope membranes in lipid and pigment metabolism (CITATION). The remaining 50% of these proteins are hypothetical proteins whose function could not be predicted on the basis of their primary structure. About 15% of these 136 proteins correspond to proteins identified by means of the proteomic approach; these were essentially proteins involved in validated or putative transport functions (see Tables 2 and 3).
!~MM~! Crude chloroplasts were obtained from spinach (Spinacia oleracea L.) leaves and purified by isopycnic centrifugation using Percoll gradients (CITATION). Purified, intact chloroplasts were lysed in hypotonic medium, and envelope membranes were purified from the lysate by centrifugation on sucrose gradients (CITATION). Envelope subfractions enriched in outer and inner membranes were obtained, as already described (CITATION). Chloroplast envelope membrane preparations have been characterized extensively and were demonstrated to be devoid of contamination by extra-plastidial membranes and by thylakoids (CITATION). Chloroplast envelope hydrophobic proteins were extracted from envelope preparations by using a C/M mixture (CITATION, CITATION). Envelope membranes (0.5 mg of proteins in 0.1 ml of storage buffer) were slowly diluted in 0.9 ml of cold C/M (2:1, vol/vol) solution. The resulting mixture was stored for 15 min on ice before centrifugation (4°C, 20 min, 12,000 × g). Proteins insoluble in the organic phase were recovered as a white pellet, and proteins present in the organic phase were analyzed further. Protein contents of membrane fractions were estimated by using the Bio-Rad protein assay reagent (CITATION). Proteins present in the C/M extracts were precipitated with acetone, resuspended in 50 μl of SDS/PAGE buffer, and finally loaded on 12% acrylamide gels for SDS/PAGE analyses (CITATION). Rabbit polyclonal antibodies were produced, as previously described (CITATION), against four synthetic peptides, corresponding to residues 532–546 and 483–494 of IEP60 and 221–231 and 462–471 of HP45. Immune sera were purified as described (CITATION). The envelope proteins were detected with the purified antibodies diluted 1:1,000 by using alkaline phosphatase staining. Preimmune sera gave no signal. After separation by SDS/PAGE, discrete bands were excised from the Coomassie blue-stained gel. The in-gel digestion was carried out as described (CITATION). Gel pieces then were extracted with 5% (vol/vol) formic acid solution and acetonitrile. The extracted peptides were desalted by using C18 Zip Tips (Millipore). Elution of the peptides was performed with 5–10 μl of a 50:50:0.1 (vol/vol) acetonitrile/H2O/formic acid solution. The peptide solution was introduced into a glass capillary (Protana, Odense, Denmark) for nanoelectrospray ionization. Tandem mass spectrometry experiments were carried out on a Q-TOF hybrid mass spectrometer (Micromass). Interpretation of MS/MS spectra was achieved manually and with the help of the PEPSEQ program (MassLynx software, Micromass, Manchester, U.K.). MS/MS sequence information were used for database searching by using a home–made BLAST-based program. The so-called BLASTCOMP program (see Fig. 4, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site, www.pnas.org) allows a BLAST search for each amino acid sequence and allows one to cluster amino acid sequences with a common BLAST hit. BLASTP and TBLASTN were used with specific matrices to mine plant protein and genomic databases, respectively. Predictions for chloroplast localization and membrane-spanning regions were achieved by using the software programs CHLOROP (CITATION) and HMMTOP (CITATION), respectively. The green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter plasmid 35Ω-sGFP(S65T) and the plasmid 35Ω-TP-sGFP(S65T) containing the transit peptide (TP) sequence from RBCs fused to GFP were described (CITATION). Construction of the plasmid containing the precursor of the IEP60 spinach protein fused to GFP (35Ω-SoPht2;1-sGFP(S65T)) was performed as follows. The complete coding region of IEP60 was PCR-amplified by using two flanking primers, XhoI-N-ter TCACTCGAGATGACTTCCTCTTGCCTCTTATC and XhoI-C-ter TCACTCGAGTAATACGTAGGATAAACCCTTGG. This fragment was inserted into the SalI-digested plasmid 35Ω-sGFP(S65T). Correct orientation and sequence of the inserted fragments were controlled. Plasmids (5 μg; Qiagen Plasmid MidiKit) were introduced to Arabidopsis leaves (3–4 weeks old) by using a pneumatic particle gun (Bio-Rad PDS-1000/He, helium pressure of 1,550 psi, 1,350 psi Rupture Disks, 10-cm target distance, 1-μm gold Microcarriers). After bombardment, leaves were incubated on MS plates for 18–36 h in dim light. Fluorescence microscopy was performed with a confocal laser-scanning microscope (TCS-SP2, Leica, Deerfield, IL; ref. CITATION).
