!~ABS~! MOR1 is a member of the MAP215 family of microtubule-associated proteins and is required to establish interphase arrays of cortical microtubules in plant cells (CITATION) . Here we show that MOR1 binds microtubules in vivo, localizing to both cortical microtubules and to areas of overlapping microtubules in the phragmoplast. Genetic complementation of the cytokinesis-defective gemini pollen 1-1 (gem1-1) mutation with MOR1 shows that MOR1 (which is synonymous with the protein GEM1) is essential in cytokinesis. Phenotypic analysis of gem1-1 and gem1-2, which contains a T-DNA insertion, confirm that MOR1/GEM1 is essential for regular patterns of cytokinesis. Both the gem1-1 and gem1-2 mutations cause the truncation of the MOR1/GEM1 protein. In addition, the carboxy-terminal domain of the protein, which is absent in both mutants, binds microtubules in vitro. Our data show that MOR1/GEM1 has an essential role in the cytokinetic phragmoplast.
!~RES~! In general, microtubules form four distinct assemblies as they progress through the plant cell cycle: the interphase cortical array is involved in cell expansion; the preprophase band of microtubules delineates the plane of cell division; the spindle separates daughter chromosomes; and the phragmoplast, which forms in late anaphase, guides Golgi-derived vesicles to a site where they will fuse to form the new cell plate that separates the daughter cells. This pattern of alternating arrays is reflected in every cell division in the plant apart from meiotic cell divisions and the subsequent gametophytic and endosperm mitoses, all of which lack a preprophase band. As in animal cells, microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) must govern the organization of these microtubule arrays. Three classes of plant structural MAP have been identified. Two of these, MAP65 (ref. 2) and MAP190 (refs 3, 4), are unique to plants, and the third is a homologue of MAP215 from Xenopus laevis named MOR1 (refs 1, 5). The MAP215 family includes human Ch-TOGp (ref. 6), Dictyostelium discoideum DdCP224 (ref. 7), Drosophila melanogaster Msps (CITATION) , Caenorhabditis elegans Zyg-9 (ref. 9), Schizosaccharomyces pombe Dis1 (ref. 10) and Alp14 (ref. 11) and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Stu2 (ref. 12). Various biochemical genetic and cell biological experiments have shown that members of this class of MAP are involved in regulating microtubule dynamics (CITATION) and are essential for aspects of cell division (CITATION) and cell morphogenesis (CITATION) . MOR1, the plant member of this group, was identified in a screen for temperature-sensitive effects on microtubule organization in Arabidopsis seedlings (CITATION) . Two mutant alleles of mor1 have been identified, mor1-1 and mor1-2, both of which result in a single amino-acid substitution in the amino-terminal HEAT repeat, a motif that is thought to mediate protein–protein interactions (CITATION) . At the permissive temperature of 21 °C, cortical microtubules were similar to those of wild type, but, on shifting to a restrictive temperature of 29 °C, cortical microtubules became progressively disorganized. Mutant mor1 plants grown at the restrictive temperature have severe morphological defects, including a left-handed twist of organs, isotropic cell expansion and impaired root hair polarity. In addition, seeds germinated at the restrictive temperature produce severely stunted plants that do not develop flowers. These observations suggest that MOR1 is essential for maintaining the interphase cortical array and for correct morphogeneis (CITATION) . To study MOR1 further, we raised an antiserum (anti-MOR1/CT) to the C-terminal 855 amino acids of MOR1 expressed in Escherichia coli (see Supplementary Information, Fig. S1). We used this antiserum coupled with antibodies against tubulin to stain Arabidopsis cells throughout the cell cycle. The two cortical arrays, the interphase array and the preprophase band were stained with anti-MOR1/CT (Fig. 1). The tubulin and MOR1 aggregates remained after the interphase cortical array was disrupted by the anti-microtubule herbicide oryzalin (Fig. 1). These data indicate that MOR1 can bind small microtubule oligomers and/or dimers, as well as extended microtubule polymers. Similar experiments carried out using an antiserum against plant-specific MAP65 did not show colocalization of MAP65 with tubulin aggregates after microtubule disassembly, which is consistent with the idea that MAP65 only binds microtubule polymers (CITATION) . [[FIGURE]] MOR1 localizes to the spindle and to the phragmoplast, where it is concentrated in the midline where oppositely orientated microtubules overlap. Immunoblotting and analyses by polymerase chain reaction with reverse transcription (RT–PCR) showed that MOR1 is expressed in all of the vegetative and reproductive tissues that we examined (see Supplementary Information, Fig. S2 and S3). What is intriguing about the immunolocalization of MOR1 and its constitutive expression is that the spindle and phragmoplast arrays in both mor1 mutations are unaffected. This seems to indicate that the N-terminal HEAT repeat has a specific role in the interphase cortical array (CITATION) . In the anther of the flower, meiocytes undergo meiosis to form the haploid microspores. Each microspore nucleus divides unequally at pollen mitosis 1 to form a larger vegetative and smaller generative cell (Fig. 2). Subsequently, only the generative cell divides at pollen mitosis II to form the two sperm cells of the mature tricellular pollen grain (CITATION) . The gem1-1 mutation affects cytokinesis and the cell division pattern at pollen mitosis I (refs 16, 17). Mutant gem1-1 plants produce a substantial proportion of microspores that either fail to establish a cell plate at pollen mitosis I or produce partial or irregular branching cell walls that alter division symmetry (Fig. 2). Internal cell walls are frequently incomplete and show highly irregular profiles in gem1-1 (refs 16, 17 and Fig. 2). Nuclear divisions at pollen mitosis I are always complete in gem1-1 cells, producing binucleate or bicellular pollen (Fig. 2). These data indicate that GEM1 has a direct role in cytokinesis. In addition, gem1-1 is homozygous lethal and can be maintained only as heterozygotes, which shows that GEM1 is essential. [[FIGURE]] We positionally cloned GEM1 by mapping the gene to an interval of less than 50 kilobases in bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clone T20F21 on chromosome 2. This region contains nine putative genes including the gene encoding MOR1. We introduced genomic fragments of cosmid DNA in this region into gem1-1 heterozygotes. Normally, 20% of the pollen produced by gem1-1 heterozygotes is aberrant. Only plants into which a genomic fragment carrying MOR1 had been introduced showed a weak phenotype, with the frequency of aberrant pollen reduced to the expected 10% in single locus transformants. Complementation was further verified through co-segregation analysis (see Supplementary Information, Fig. S4). These data show that MOR1 is synonymous with GEM1. Hereafter, we refer to the protein as MOR1/GEM1. We identified a second gemini pollen mutant with similar defects in pollen cytokinesis in a T-DNA insertion population. The original gem1-1 mutant (CITATION) and this T-DNA insertion allele, named gem1-2, showed a similar range of division phenotypes (Fig. 2). gem1-2 mutants showed a more severe phenotype than gem1-1, however, with heterozygous plants producing aberrant pollen at a frequency of roughly 50%. This suggests the complete phenotypic penetrance of the gem1-2 mutation in pollen. The absence of sporophytic phenotypes in gem1-1 and gem1-2 heterozygotes also shows that both alleles are recessive to the wild-type allele in sporophytic tissues. Complementation of the gem1-1 phenotype with the wild-type MOR1/GEM1 sequence further suggests that gem1-1 also acts recessively in pollen. We sequenced the 14-kb genomic region containing MOR1/GEM1 from gem1-1 heterozygotes and found that it contains two point mutations in the coding sequence (Fig. 3a). The first mutation in exon 22 (T→G) results in the amino-acid change Ser745Ala, and the second mutation is in a splice acceptor (AG→AA) in intron 38. Serine 745 is not conserved in the MAP215 family. Sequencing of the transcripts amplified from gem1-1 heterozygotes identified the wild-type and a mis-spliced transcript in which the next downstream AG was used to create a transcript encoding the N-terminal 1,326 amino acids of MOR1/GEM1 coupled to a six-amino-acid C-terminal extension (Fig. 3b). gem1-2 carries a T-DNA insertion in exon 12 and was confirmed to be expressed as a fusion transcript (Fig. 3a). The putative truncated protein is predicted to contain the N-terminal 411 amino acids of MOR1/GEM1 coupled to a 48-amino-acid C-terminal extension derived from T-DNA sequences (Fig. 3b). [[FIGURE]] The region missing in both gem1-1 and gem1-2 is the C terminus, which includes a putative microtubule-binding site at position 1,786. Mutation of this site in Xenopus MAP215 causes reduced microtubule binding but does not abolish it completely (CITATION) , which indicates that this is not the only microtubule-binding site. We used the recombinant C-terminal fragment of MOR1/GEM1 (residues 1,123–1,978) in a microtubule-binding co-sedimentation assay and found the C-terminal fragment in the centrifugation pellet with microtubules, indicating a binding interaction. These data suggest that the loss of function in the gem1 mutants is at least in part due to the lack of this microtubule-binding domain. Other domains known to be missing from the gem1 mutants include five potential kinase sites and two and eight HEAT repeats in gem1-1 and gem1-2, respectively. Lack of potential regulation by reversible phosphorylation or protein–protein interactions through the HEAT repeats may also contribute to the gem1 phenotype. The fact that the gem1 mutants are homozygous lethal strongly suggests that sporophytic cell divisions may also be affected in a similar way. But because MOR1/GEM1 localizes to all microtubule arrays, we cannot rule out the possibility that other processes mediated by MOR1/GEM1 are also severely disrupted in sporophytic cells. Our phenotypic and genetic analyses of gem1-1 and gem1-2 suggest that MOR1/GEM1 is essential for the correct functioning of the phragmoplast at pollen mitosis I and that partial or complete lack of a microtubule-binding domain may cause the defects in these mutants. We propose that the longer truncated gem1-1 product retains partial function, allowing normal cytokinesis in a proportion of gem1-1 mutant spores. All gem1-2 mutant spores are affected by the more severe gem1-2 allele, which indicates that the shorter gem1-2 product does not maintain its function in the phragmoplast at pollen mitosis I. Although we cannot rule out conditional semi-dominant effects on cytokinesis, the fact that heterozygote gem1 mutant plants have no constitutive phenotype indicates that both may be loss-of-function alleles. The mor1 mutants indicate that the N-terminal HEAT repeat has a role in the interphase cortical array (CITATION) . By contrast, the gem1 mutants specify a role for the C terminus of MOR1/GEM1 in phragmoplast organization. Neither mor1 or gem1 mutants are defective in nuclear division, which indicates that these domains are not required for spindle function. Our data indicate that MOR1/GEM1, like other members of this family, can bind microtubule polymers and small tubulin aggregates. MOR1/GEM1 concentrates at the midline of the phragmoplast where the plus ends of opposing microtubules overlap. It has been proposed that MAP65, which is thought to crosslink antiparallel microtubules, stabilizes the line of overlap (CITATION) . In addition, exogenous tubulin subunits are added at the overlapping plus ends at the midline (CITATION) . As members of the MAP215 family stimulate microtubule assembly at the plus ends (CITATION) , it is possible that MOR1/GEM1 stabilizes the growing ends at the midline promoting the flux of tubulin through the microtubules. The predicted diminished microtubule-binding capabilities of the gem1-1 and gem1-2 products may cause destabilization of the line of overlap, resulting in the aberrant cell plate formation seen in the gem1 mutants.
!~MM~! The MOR1/GEM1 C-terminal fragment was amplified from the total RNA of Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings using RT–PCR, cloned into pET28a (Novagen), expressed and purified as a His-tagged protein from E. coli BL21 (see Supplementary Information, Fig. S1). We raised the anti-MOR1/CT primary antiserum in mice against the purified MOR1/GEM1 C-terminal fragment. The recombinant protein was administered as three fortnightly injections of 100 μg of protein mixed 1:1 with Freund's incomplete adjuvant. Antibodies against α-tubulin were raised in sheep as described (CITATION) . Anti-mouse tetramethylrhodamine isothiocyanate (TRITC)-conjugated and anti-sheep fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-conjugated antibodies were used as the secondary antibodies (Sigma). For immunofluorescence studies, we prepared A. thaliana tissue-culture cells as described (CITATION) . For studying the interphase cortical array, protoplasts were treated with or without 2 mM oryzalin for 2 h and fixed and stained as described (CITATION) . Tubulin was isolated from porcine brain as described (CITATION) . Both recombinant MOR1/GEM1 C-terminal protein and tubulin were centrifuged at 120,000g for 30 min to remove protein aggregates after being stored at −80 °C storage. Tubulin was incubated with the recombinant protein for 30 min at 30 °C in PEM buffer (50 mM PIPES, 2 mM EGTA, 2 mM MgCl2 and 0.1 mM GTP), centrifuged at 100,000g for 30 min and analysed on a 7.5% one-dimensional SDS–PAGE gel. Recombinant MOR1/GEM1 C-terminal protein alone, used as a negative control, gave no pellet after centrifugation at 100,000g. We selected a cosmid clone 44-1 covering only 13.5 kb of the MOR1/GEM1 genomic sequence through PCR screening of a cosmid library (CD4-11, Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center). Cosmid DNA was mobilized into Agrobacterium strain GV3101 and used for plant transformation by floral dipping (CITATION) . A 15-kb XbaI partial digestion product, which did not overlap with cosmid clone 44-1, was subcloned from BAC T20F21 into pMOG22 (ref. 26) and used as a transformation control. We grew seedlings with hygromycin resistant (HygR) to maturity and analysed their pollen phenotype (CITATION) by 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining (see Supplementary Information, Fig. S4). We analysed pollen division phenotypes in fixed spores using bright field and ultraviolet epi-illumination and electron microscopy as described (CITATION) . We mapped gem1-1 as described (CITATION) but used newly designed PCR-based markers that revealed polymorphism between No-O and Col-O. Genomic DNA extracted from gem1-1 heterozygotes was used as template for PCR amplification and for sequencing the 13.5 kb of MOR1/GEM1 with the automated ABI Prism procedure (Applied Biosystems). We analysed sequence data using Sequence Editor version 1.0.3 (Applied Biosystems) to identify ambiguous bases that gave two peaks at the same position. Ambiguous bases in gem1-1 were confirmed by the sequencing of RT–PCR products. Total RNA from different tissues (root, stem, leaf, flower, microspore and pollen) of gem1-1 and wild-type plants was extracted with Trizol reagent (Life Technologies) and RT–PCR was carried out using the Reverse-iT One-Step RT–PCR kit (Advanced Biotechnologies; see Supplementary Information, Fig. S3).
