!~ABS~! 5-Formyltetrahydrofolate cycloligase (5-FCL) catalyzes the conversion of 5-formyltetrahydrofolate (5-CHO-H4PteGlun) to 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate and is considered to be the main means whereby 5-CHO-H4PteGlun is metabolized in mammals, yeast, and bacteria. 5-CHO-H4PteGlunis known to occur in plants and to be highly abundant in leaf mitochondria. Genomics-based approaches identifiedArabidopsis and tomato cDNAs encoding proteins homologous to 5-FCLs of other organisms but containing N-terminal extensions with the features of mitochondrial targeting peptides. These homologs were shown to have 5-FCL activity by characterizing recombinant enzymes produced in Escherichia coli and by functional complementation of a yeast fau1 mutation with the Arabidopsis 5-FCL cDNA. The recombinantArabidopsis enzyme is active as a monomer, prefers the penta- to the monoglutamyl form of 5-CHO-H4PteGlun, and has kinetic properties broadly similar to those of 5-FCLs from other organisms. Enzyme assays and immunoblot analyses indicated that 5-FCL is located predominantly if not exclusively in plant mitochondria and that the mature, active enzyme lacks the putative targeting sequence. Serine hydroxymethyltransferase (SHMT) from plant mitochondria was shown to be inhibited by 5-CHO-H4PteGlun as are SHMTs from other organisms. Since mitochondrial SHMT is crucial to photorespiration, 5-FCL may help prevent 5-CHO-H4PteGlun from reaching levels that would inhibit this process. Consistent with this possibility, 5-FCL activity was far higher in leaf mitochondria than root mitochondria. 
!~RES~! BLAST searches of the Arabidopsis data base using the protein sequence of human 5-FCL detected a single gene (At5g13050) encoding a putative 5-FCL polypeptide and three cognate ESTs. Sequencing of the longest EST (Genbank™ BE038212) showed that it lacks the first 87 nucleotides of the coding sequence. The missing region was cloned by 5′-RACE, and the full-length coding sequence was reconstituted by overlap extension PCR. Southern analysis using the BE038212 cDNA as probe confirmed that there is only one copy of the 5-FCL gene in the Arabidopsis genome (not shown).  BLAST searches of plant EST databases using the Arabidopsisprotein sequence detected a single tomato contig (comprising eleven ESTs) encoding a 5-FCL homolog, and >50 similar ESTs from other plants (six dicots, four monocots, a gymnosperm, and a moss). That the tomato ESTs all belong to one contig indicates that tomato, likeArabidopsis, has only one 5-FCL gene. The longest tomato EST (AW650167) was sequenced and shown to encode a full-length polypeptide.  The deduced Arabidopsis and tomato proteins share 23–29% identity with human, yeast, and bacterial 5-FCLs, but are distinct in having N-terminal extensions of at least 40 residues (Fig.1 A). These presequences have the features of mitochondrial targeting peptides (CITATION) and appear to be general in plants because similar extensions are specified by ESTs from other dicots and monocots. Despite their mitochondrial-type presequences, plant 5-FCLs cluster phylogenetically with fungal and animal 5-FCLs, which are known or presumed to be cytosolic and not with prokaryotic 5-FCLs, including that of Rickettsia the closest living relative of mitochondria (CITATION) (Fig. 1 B). Plant 5-FCLs therefore presumably share a common ancestor with other eukaryotic 5-FCLs.  [[FIGURE]] Disruption of the yeast 5-FCL gene (FAU1) in a strain in which the purine synthesis genes ADE16 andADE17 are also disrupted results in a methionine deficiency that reduces the growth rate 2- to 3-fold (CITATION). The triple mutant Δade16 Δade17 Δfau1 was accordingly used as the host for functional complementation tests with an Arabidopsis5-FCL engineered to remove the putative targeting peptide (Fig.1 A). This construct decreased the doubling time almost as effectively as the native FAU1 gene (Fig.2 A), indicating that the protein shorn of its N-terminal extension has 5-FCL activity.  [[FIGURE]] Full-length 5-FCLs from Arabidopsis and tomato were expressed in E. coli, together with versions engineered to remove the putative targeting peptide (Fig. 1 A). High 5-FCL activity (up to 3 μmol min−1 mg−1protein) was found in desalted extracts of cells harboring each of the four constructs (Fig. 2 B). The endogenous activity of the host cells was barely detectable (1.3 nmol min−1mg−1 protein). Based on this result and the complementation test, the Arabidopsis and tomato proteins were designated AtFCL and LeFCL, respectively, and their N-terminally truncated versions were designated AtFCL-n and LeFCL-n.  For both Arabidopsis and tomato, the truncated enzyme construct gave higher 5-FCL activity than the full-length one (Fig.2 B). SDS-PAGE analysis of the cell extracts showed that this difference was due largely if not solely to greater expression of the truncated proteins, AtFCL-n and LeFCL-n (Fig. 2 C). The estimated molecular masses of AtFCL-n and LeFCL-n were 31 kDa (Fig.2 C), which is ∼4 kDa greater than the masses predicted from their sequences. Similar discrepancies have been reported for mammalian 5-FCLs (CITATION, CITATION).  The activity given by the full-length constructs (Fig. 2 B) was at first sight intriguing, because it suggested that plant FCLs do not need to have their presequences removed in order to be enzymatically active. However, immunoblot analysis of E. coli extracts expressing the full-length Arabidopsisprotein revealed two bands (33 and 31 kDa), of which the latter was stronger and migrated with AtFCL-n (Fig.3 A). Moreover, by quantifying the 5-FCL protein bands and calculating specific activities, we found that the specific activity of the full-length construct, when based on the amount of 31-kDa protein, was near that of AtFCL-n (Fig.3 B). The activity given by the full-length construct is therefore most likely caused by production of a truncated protein inE. coli cells. This truncated product was not further investigated, but may have come from adventitious translation initiation at the second methionine codon (Fig. 1 A),i.e. at the same methionine as the engineered truncated protein AtFCL-n.  [[FIGURE]] Genomic evidence, studies of the recombinant enzyme (above), and immunoblot analysis of the protein expressed in planta (below) all indicate that the physiologically relevant form of 5-FCL has no N-terminal extension. The truncated Arabidopsis protein AtFCL-n was therefore used to measure K m values, pH dependence, and native molecular mass.  Kinetic constants were determined with histidine-tagged AtFCL-n purified to near-homogeneity by Ni2+ chelate affinity chromatography (Fig. 4). Preliminary experiments with crude E. coli extracts using 5-CHO-H4PteGlu1 as substrate established that the tag does not affect the kinetic properties of AtFCL-n. TheK m values for all substrates tested (TableI) fall within the range reported for the mammalian, yeast, and Lactobacillus casei enzymes (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION,CITATION, CITATION). Like other 5-FCLs, AtFCL-n prefers the penta- to the monoglutamyl form of 5-CHO-H4PteGlun and is specific for the 6S isomer since activity with the 6R form was <5% of that with 6S, and theK m for the 6S form was about half that for the 6R,6S racemate (Table I). The turnover number (k cat) of AtFCL-n with 5-CHO-H4PteGlu1 as substrate can be estimated from the data of Table I as ∼320 min−1. This is about 3-fold lower than the k cat of human 5-FCL (1000 min−1, the highest reported) and about 4-fold higher than that of L. casei (the lowest) (CITATION, CITATION). AtFCL-n activity rose steadily between pH 5.5 and 9 (Fig. 3 C). This contrasts with mammalian 5-FCLs, which show optima at pH 6.5 or below (CITATION, CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] The molecular mass of native AtFCL-n was estimated by size exclusion chromatography. The enzyme activity migrated as a symmetrical peak with an apparent mass of 27 kDa, which coincides with the value predicted from amino acid sequence (26.5 kDa) and so is consistent with a monomeric structure. The FCLs from mammals and L. casei are also monomeric (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION).  The molecular mass and subcellular localization of plant 5-FCLs were investigated by cell fractionation in conjunction with immunoblotting and enzyme assays. Since the recovery of intact organelles fromArabidopsis was not efficient, pea leaves, pea roots, and cauliflower florets were used instead. These tissues are well suited for recovery of intact organelles (CITATION), and cauliflower is closely related to Arabidopsis whose 5-FCL was used to raise antibodies.  Fractionation of pea leaf cells showed that 5-FCL activity was high only in mitochondria (Fig.5 A). The low 5-FCL activities in cytosol and chloroplast fractions were within the range likely to be caused by cross-contamination by mitochondrial proteins, as shown by the distribution of the fumarase marker (Fig. 5 A). These data indicate that 5-FCL is a mitochondrial enzyme in pea leaf cells and that if other compartments have any activity it does not exceed a few percent of the total. Consistent with a mitochondrial location, purified mitochondria from cauliflower florets and pea roots also showed 5-FCL activity, but the root activity was low (Fig.5 A).  [[FIGURE]] The matrix of purified cauliflower mitochondria contained a polypeptide that cross-reacted strongly with antibodies to Arabidopsis5-FCL and migrated with the truncated recombinant protein AtFCL-n (Fig.5 B). This result indicates that the ∼40-residue presequence has, as expected, been removed from the mature mitochondrial polypeptide.  Since pea leaf mitochondria are rich in 5-CHO-H4PteGlun (CITATION) and have high 5-FCL activity (Fig. 5), we tested whether their SHMT is inhibited by 5-CHO-H4PteGlun like SHMTs from other organisms. SHMT activity was measured using subsaturating concentrations of serine and H4PteGlu1 to mimic the probable in organello conditions (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Activity was inhibited moderately by (6R,6S)-5-CHO-H4PteGlu1and strongly by (6R,6S)-5-CHO-H4PteGlu5(IC50 ∼50 μm) (Fig.6). This inhibition is likely to be physiologically relevant because 5-CHO-H4PteGlun concentrations in pea leaf mitochondria can be estimated to be 250–500 μm (CITATION, CITATION), and penta- and tetraglutamyl forms predominate (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! (6R,6S)-5-CHO-H4PteGlu1, (6R)-5-CHO-H4PteGlu1, (6S)-5-CHO-H4PteGlu1, (6R,6S)-5-CHO-H4PteGlu5, and (6R,6S)-tetrahydrofolate (H4PteGlu1) were obtained from Schircks Laboratories (Jona, Switzerland).l-[1-14C]Serine (54 mCi/mmol) was purchased from American Radiolabeled Chemicals (St. Louis, MO). [14C]formaldehyde (55 mCi/mmol) was from NEN Life Science Products. Ni2+-nitriloacetic acid superflow resin was from Qiagen. MaceraseTM was from Calbiochem, and Cellulase R-10 was from Yakult Honsha, Tokyo, Japan.   Arabidopsis thaliana plants (ecotype Columbia) were grown for 3 weeks in potting soil at 23 °C in 12-h days (photosynthetic photon flux density 80 μE m−2 s−1). Pea plants (Pisum sativum cv. Laxton's Progress 9) were grown in vermiculite at 20 °C in 12-h days (150 μE m−2s−1) for 10 days. Cauliflower (Brassica oleracea) was purchased locally.  Synthetic minimal medium (YMD) contained a 0.7% yeast nitrogen base without amino acids (DIFCO Bacto®), 2% glucose, and the following supplements (mg/l) when indicated: l-serine, 375;l-leucine, 30; l-tryptophan, 20; uracil, 20; adenine, 20; and l-methionine, 20. Solid media contained 1.5% agar. Liquid cultures were grown at 30 °C in a rotary shaker at 250 rpm. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain used was WHY1.3.1 (fau1 ade16 ade17 ser1 ura3 trp1 leu2) (CITATION). The plasmids were pVT103-U (CITATION) and pVT101-U containing the coding sequence of the yeast 5-FCL gene, FAU1 (CITATION).   Arabidopsis expressed sequence tag (EST) GenBank™ accession number BE038212 was obtained from H. Bohnert (University of Illinois), and tomato EST AW650167 was obtained from the Clemson University Genomics Institute. Their inserts were sequenced and subcloned into pET28b (Novagen) with modification as follows. PCR reactions used Pfu DNA polymerase (Stratagene). The missing 5′-terminus of the Arabidopsis cDNA was cloned by 5′-RACE using the Invitrogen kit and the gene-specific primers 5′-CACTACCATCTTCACGGTCATT-3′ and 5′-GGGCATCAACAGGAGCTGGTT-3′. The cloned 5′-RACE product and the BE038212 cDNA were joined by overlap extension PCR (CITATION). The primers for the 5′ region were 5′-AAAAAATCATGATTGGAGCTCGCGTCTT-3′ (5′-forward) and 5′-ATGTTGCAGAATCTCAGAGA-3′ (5′-internal), and for the 3′ region 5′-TCTCTGAGATTCTGCAACAT-3′ (3′-internal) and 5′-GTACCTCGAGTCACATGCTCTCGGTAGC-3′ (3′-reverse). The resulting full-length cDNA was digested with BspHI and XhoI and cloned between the NcoI andXhoI sites of pET28b. An Arabidopsis cDNA starting at the second methionine codon was amplified from the BE038212cDNA using the forward primer 5′-AGCACCACCAGCAAAAACCAAG-3′ (forward-Met-2) and the 3′-reverse primer above, digested withXhoI, and ligated between the XhoI site and the T4 DNA polymerase-infilled NcoI site of pET28b to give plasmid At5-FCLn. To add a C-terminal hexahistidine tag, the BE038212cDNA was amplified using the forward-Met-2 primer and the reverse primer 5′-GTACCTCGAGCATGCTCTCGGTAGC-3′, digested with NdeI and XhoI, and cloned into the corresponding sites of At5-FCLn. For tomato, a full-length cDNA was amplified using the primers 5′-CCTTTTTCATGACCATTCCTTGGGCAGT-3′ (forward) and 5′-CCGCTCGAGTCACTGGCAAAACTCCAGC-3′ (reverse), and a cDNA starting at the second methionine codon was amplified using the same reverse primer and the forward primer 5′-CCTTTTTCATGAGCACCGCCGGAGAACA-3′. Both tomato cDNAs were digested with BspHI and XhoI, and cloned into the matching sites of pET28b. This strategy changed the second residue of the full-length polypeptide from alanine to threonine. Constructs were electroporated into E. coli DH10B cells and verified by sequencing. Sequences were aligned using Clustal W 1.7 (CITATION). Homology searches were made using BLAST programs (CITATION).  For protein expression, the above pET28b constructs were electroporated into E. coliBL21 (DE3) cells or, for the histidine-tagged Arabidopsisprotein, into BL21-CodonPlus™ (DE3) (Stratagene) cells. Cultures were grown at 37 °C in LB medium containing 100 μg/ml kanamycin. WhenA 600 reached 0.6−1, isopropyl-d-thiogalactopyranoside was added to a final concentration of 1 mm, and incubation was continued for 3–4 h at 25 °C.  An ArabidopsiscDNA starting at the second methionine codon was amplified as above using the primers 5′-CGGGATCCATGAGCACCACCAGCAAA-3′ (forward) and 5′-TCACATGCTCTCGGTAGC-3′ (reverse), and ligated between the BamHI and PvuII sites of pVT103-U. The sequence-verified construct was introduced into yeast strain WHY1.3.1 as described (CITATION). After initial selection for uracil prototrophy, colonies were inoculated into appropriately supplemented liquid YMD medium, and the growth rate was monitored atA 600.   E. coli cells from a 50-ml culture were harvested by centrifugation and resuspended in 1 ml of 100 mm Hepes-KOH, pH 7.5, containing 1 mmdithiothreitol and 10% glycerol (buffer A). Subsequent operations were at 0−4 °C. The resuspended cells were broken by agitation in a Mini-BeadBeater (Biospec Products, Bartlesville, OK) using 0.1-mm zirconia/silica beads. The beads were washed with 1 ml of buffer A, and the pooled extract plus wash was cleared by centrifugation (16,000 × g, 20 min) and desalted on a PD-10 column (AmershamBiosciences) equilibrated in buffer A. Extracts were frozen in liquid N2 and stored at −80 °C; this did not affect 5-FCL activity. Protein was determined by Bradford's method (CITATION) using bovine serum albumin as standard. Native molecular mass was estimated using a Waters 626 high performance liquid chromatography system equipped with a Superdex 200 HR 10/30 column (Amersham Biosciences). The reference proteins were cytochrome c, carbonic anhydrase, bovine serum albumin, and β-amylase. Histidine-taggedArabidopsis 5-FCL was purified by affinity chromatography on Ni2+-nitriloacetic acid resin according to manufacturer's protocols. For kinetic analyses, the protein was purified under native conditions. The 80 mm imidazole eluate (the most homogeneous 5-FCL fraction) was desalted on a PD-10 column equilibrated with 100 mm MES, pH 6.0, containing 10% glycerol, frozen in liquid N2, and stored at −80 °C until use. Freezing did not affect the enzyme activity. For antibody production in rabbits, 5-FCL was purified under denaturing conditions. The pH 5.9 eluate (richest in protein) was desalted twice on PD-10 columns, equilibrated with 0.1X phosphate buffered saline (CITATION), and concentrated 10-foldin vacuo. The concentrate was made 0.5% in SDS to resolubilize precipitated protein and sent to Cocalico Biologicals (Reamstown, PA).  5-FCL activity was measured by discontinuous or continuous spectrophotometric assays (CITATION, CITATION). Unless otherwise noted, substrates were saturating and product formation was proportional to enzyme concentration and time. All assays were in a final volume of 100 μl and contained 10 mmβ-mercaptoethanol and 0.25% (v/v) Tween 20. Discontinuous assays were run at 30 °C in 100 mm buffer containing 2 mm ATP, 4 mm Mg acetate and 1 mm(6R,6S)-5-CHO-H4PteGlu1, (6R)-5-CHO-H4PteGlu1, (6S)-5-CHO-H4PteGlu1, or (6R,6S)-5-CHO-H4PteGlu5. Buffers were MES-KOH, pH 5.5–6.5; Pipes-KOH, pH 6.5–7.5; Hepes-KOH, pH 7.0–8.0; or Bicine-KOH, pH 7.5–9.0. Reactions were stopped by adding 200 μl of saturated (NH4)2SO4 solution adjusted with citric acid to pH 3.5 (for assays in Bicine, pH 3.0) and centrifuged to clear. The heating step (CITATION) was omitted. 5,10-CH=H4PteGlun was estimated from absorbance at 350 nm relative to a blank to which ATP was added after incubation; an extinction coefficient of 24,900 M−1cm−1 was used (CITATION). Continuous assays were run at 23 °C in 50 mm MES-KOH, pH 6.0, using the ATP, Mg acetate, and 5-CHO-H4PteGlun concentrations indicated; [Mg·ATP] was calculated as described (CITATION). Enzymatic conversion of 5,10-CH=H4PteGlun to 10-formyl-H4PteGlun in these conditions was shown to be negligible by monitoring the reaction at 310 nm as well as 360 nm (CITATION). K m values were calculated from Hanes plots.  Pea and cauliflower mitochondria and pea chloroplasts were isolated and purified on Percoll gradients as described (CITATION, CITATION), resuspended in 10 mmK-phosphate, pH 7.5, containing 1 mm serine, 5 mm β-mercaptoethanol, 1 mm EGTA, and 20 μm pyridoxal 5′-phosphate, and broken by 4–5 cycles of freezing and thawing. Organellar extracts were cleared by centrifugation (15 min, 16,000 × g). A cytosolic fraction was prepared from pea leaf protoplasts as described (CITATION). The chloroplast stromal marker NADP-linked glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and the mitochondrial matrix marker fumarase were assayed as described (CITATION); fumarase was inactivated by freezing in liquid N2 and so was assayed in fresh samples. Other activities were measured after freezing in liquid N2 and storing at −80 °C.  Proteins were precipitated with 10% trichloroacetic acid, resuspended in 2× Laemmli buffer at 10 μg/μl, and separated by SDS-PAGE on 12.5% gels. Electrophoresis and immunoblotting procedures were as described (CITATION); theArabidopsis 5-FCL antiserum was diluted 1:1000. RecombinantArabidopsis 5-FCL protein in E. coli extracts was quantified using an AlphaImagerTM digital imaging system (San Leandro, CA) by lane density analysis of Coomassie-stained SDS-PAGE gels or by densitometry of immunoblots. For immunoblot densitometry, a calibration curve was prepared using known amounts of the recombinant Arabidopsis 5-FCL version lacking the N-terminal region upstream of the second methionine, and with no histidine tag. Purified histidine-tagged protein was not used for calibration because some antibodies in the serum were shown to recognize the tag.  SHMT activity was assayed at 30 °C as described (CITATION), with minor modifications. Reactions (100 μl final volume) were run for 20 min in 50 mm K-phosphate, pH 7.5, containing 1 mm l-[3-14C]serine (1 nCi/nmol), 200 μm H4PteGlu1, 4 mm β-mercaptoethanol, and 250 μm pyridoxal 5′-phosphate. Reactions were stopped by adding 75 μl of 1m Na acetate, pH 4.5, 50 μl of 100 mmformaldehyde, and 75 μl of 400 mm dimedone in 50% ethanol and boiled for 5 min. The labeled product was extracted with 1 ml toluene, and a 0.8-ml aliquot was taken for scintillation counting. Data were corrected for recovery of [14C]formaldehyde spikes, which was >85%. 
