!~ABS~! Background: Plant development is exquisitely sensitive to light. Seedlings grown in the dark have a developmentally arrested etiolated phenotype, whereas in the light they develop leaves and complete their life cycle. Arabidopsis de-etiolated 1 ( det1 ) mutants develop like light-grown seedlings even when grown in the dark. DET1 encodes a nuclear protein that appears to act downstream from multiple photoreceptors to regulate morphogenesis and gene expression in response to light. However, its function has remained unknown. Results: We used microarrays to examine defects in transcription in dark-grown det1 seedlings. We found extensive changes in gene expression, including many of the transcriptional responses observed in light-treated wild-type seedlings. We used an epitope-tagging approach to determine the basis of DET1 function. GFP-DET1 rescues the det1 phenotype, is localized to the nucleus, and forms an approximately 350 kDa complex, which is required for full DET1 activity. We affinity-purified the DET1 complex and identified an approximately 120 kDa copurifying protein that is the plant homolog of UV-Damaged DNA Binding Protein 1 (DDB1), a protein implicated in the human disease xeroderma pigmentosa . A null mutation in Arabidopsis DDB1A results in no obvious phenotype on its own, yet it enhances the phenotype of a weak det1 allele. Conclusions: DET1 and DDB1 interact both biochemically and genetically. In animal cells, DDB1 interacts with histone acetyltransferase complexes. The DET1/DDB1 complex may regulate gene expression in response to light via recruitment of HAT activity. Thus, DET1, whose sequence is conserved in both animals and plants, may play a direct role in the regulation of many genes.
!~RES~! Because dark-grown det1 seedlings, with short hypocotyls and open cotyledons, resemble light-grown wild-type seedlings morphologically, we were curious to know to what extent they were similar at the level of gene expression. Using microarrays for this analysis, we compared gene expression in wild-type and det1-1 seedlings that were grown in the dark for 3 days, then exposed to white light for 0, 30, 60, or 180 min. The timing of light exposure was based on experiments with wild-type seedlings. The time points chosen cause different levels of visible de-etiolation when seedlings are returned to the dark and checked for cotyledon opening and greening 24 hr later. Light exposure for 30 min resulted in no open cotyledons 24 hr later. Exposure for 1 hr resulted in a mix of seedlings, some with, but most without, a cotyledon opening response. After being given 3 hr of light exposure, almost all seedlings showed open and green cotyledons 24 hr later. When expression levels were compared in dark-grown (no light treatment) wild-type and det1 seedlings, nearly a thousand genes of the 8300 on the microarray were found to be over- or under-expressed by more than 3-fold in det1 relative to the wild-type, suggesting that DET1 has broad effects on the regulation of transcription. When the transcriptional changes in dark-grown det1 were compared with the changes in gene expression induced by light treatment of the wild-type, substantial overlap was observed CITATION . Nearly half of the changes in gene expression induced by light treatment of the wild-type occurred in det1 grown in the dark. Finally, we compared the effects of light treatment on det1 and wild-type seedlings CITATION . We found that the majority of changes in gene expression induced by light treatment of the wild-type no longer occurred in det1 , often because these changes already existed in dark-grown det1 . Among this class of genes that were found to be overexpressed in dark-grown det1 as well as induced by light in wild-type but not det1 seedlings were several well-characterized light-regulated genes, previously shown to be expressed in dark-grown det1 ( CITATION ; CITATION ). Overall, these results support the hypothesis that DET1 plays a significant role in the transcriptional response to light. In addition, many genes that were overexpressed in dark-grown det1 were not induced by light CITATION , and many genes responded to light in det1 but not in the wild-type CITATION . These unique changes could simply be due to differences in timing; the det1 seedlings may be effectively behaving like three-day-old “light-grown” seedlings, whereas the wild-type were only treated for three hours. Alternatively, they may reveal a role for DET1 in additional transcriptional responses. The DET1 sequence is conserved throughout higher eukaryotes. The deduced Arabidopsis DET1 is 74% identical to its tomato homolog, 67% to rice, 29% to human, and 20% to Drosophila CITATION . det1 mutants have also been identified in tomato (high pigment [ hp ]-2) CITATION and Drosophila (abnormal oocyte [ ABO ]) CITATION . Despite the existence of these mutants in multiple species, the biochemical function of DET1 remains unclear. The only obvious motifs in the primary sequence are a pair of bipartite nuclear localization signals (horizontal bars in CITATION ). Using an epitope-tagging approach to characterize the DET1 protein, we attached a green fluorescent protein (GFP) tag to the N (GFP-DET1) or C (DET1-GFP) terminus of DET1. These constructs were then used to transform the intermediate det1-1 allele (a splice site mutation that results in approximately 2% of the full-length message) CITATION . As shown in CITATION , GFP-DET1 was able to fully rescue the det1 dark phenotype, resulting in long hypocotyls and closed cotyledons. In contrast, DET1-GFP was only partially functional; it rescued hypocotyl length but not cotyledon opening. We used fluorescence microscopy to examine fusion protein localization. GFP-DET1 was found to be predominantly nuclear, whereas DET1-GFP was detected in both the nuclei and the cytoplasm (vacuoles occupy the interior of plant cells, so faint cytoplasmic fluorescence is most easily seen in the cytoplasmic strands of small cells such as endosperm) CITATION . The availability of commercial anti-GFP antibodies also allowed us to use GFP as a biochemical tag. Western blots of extracts derived from transgenic plants on standard SDS-PAGE showed that both proteins were full length, with GFP-DET1 appearing to be slightly more stable and of higher mobility than DET1-GFP CITATION . This difference in mobility may be due to a number of factors, including differences in the shape of the two fusion proteins. Fractionation of transgenic plant extracts on a gel filtration column followed by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting showed that GFP-DET1 is present primarily in an approximately 350 kDa complex, with some additional higher-molecular-weight species, whereas DET1-GFP is primarily in an approximately 550 kDa complex CITATION . In summary, GFP-DET1 resulted in full rescue of det1-1 , nuclear-localization, and approximately 350 kDa complex formation, whereas DET1-GFP resulted in partial rescue, partial nuclear localization, and approximately 550 kDa complex formation CITATION . These results suggest that a nuclear-localized approximately 350 kDa complex is the functional form of DET1 and that the addition of a C-terminal GFP tag interferes with these properties. To further analyze the function of the DET1 C terminus, we engineered a series of C-terminal truncations of 36, 70, and 117 amino acids into the GFP-DET1 construct CITATION . In addition, we also introduced the molecular lesions introduced by two other intermediate det1 alleles, det1-4 (58G->R) and det1-5 (Δ3AA 519-521) CITATION , into GFP-DET1 to determine the basis of their reduced function. When these five constructs were transformed into det1-1 , only GFP-DET1-4 showed any degree of rescue; this construct restored hypocotyl length but not cotyledon closure in dark-grown seedlings CITATION . Western blotting of extracts from these transgenic plants showed that GFP-DET1Δ36, GFP-DET1Δ70, and GFP-DET1-5 failed to produce significant amounts of stable protein (summarized in CITATION ; our unpublished data), explaining their inability to rescue det1-1 . These are all C-terminal modifications, supporting a role for the C terminus in protein stability. det1-5 has a similar phenotype to det1-1 CITATION , which produces approximately 2% wild-type message CITATION , so perhaps det1-5 results in a comparable amount of functional protein. GFP-DET1Δ117 and GFP-DET1-4 produced detectable amounts of tagged protein and so were characterized further. Similar to DET1-GFP, GFP-DET1Δ117 was detected both in nuclei and in cytoplasmic strands CITATION . Plants displaying a det1 phenotype, including partially rescued plants, exhibit endogenous fluorescence, particularly in vesicle-like structures around the nucleus. No significant nuclear localization of GFP-DET1-4 could be detected above this background fluorescence, but it could be seen in cytoplasmic strands CITATION . Gel filtration analysis indicated that GFP-DET1Δ117 was still able to form an approximately 350 kDa complex, whereas GFP-DET1-4 formed a larger (>700 kDa) complex CITATION . In summary CITATION , the single amino acid change introduced by the det1-4 mutation virtually abolishes nuclear localization and 350 kDa complex formation, whereas the GFP-DET1Δ117 truncation at least partially maintains these properties despite its lack of intact nuclear-localization sequences. Failure of this construct to rescue is presumably due to the absence of some key functional domain in the DET1 C terminus. Overall, these results further support the hypothesis that nuclear localization and 350 kDa complex formation are required for full DET1 function. These studies suggested to us that the 350 kDa complex was worth characterizing further. However, despite its utility as a marker of cellular localization, the GFP tag was not an ideal biochemical epitope in this instance – commercial anti-GFP antibodies detected significant background in Arabidopsis extracts, and the GFP-DET1 signal was never very robust, even when overexpressed from a strong (CaMV 35S) promoter. In contrast, an N-terminal 6xMyc-DET1 fusion protein resulted in det1 rescue (our unpublished data) and increased signal strength with virtually no background, so it was used for further biochemical studies. Like GFP-DET1, Myc-DET1 was detected primarily in an approximately 350 kDa complex, regardless of whether the source seedlings were grown in the light or the dark CITATION . In addition, no significant light/dark differences were detected in Myc-DET1 abundance (relative to total protein) or in protein charge, as assayed on isoelectric focusing gels (our unpublished data). Also GFP-DET1 was nuclear localized in both light and dark (our unpublished data). Thus, the basis of light regulation of DET1 function is still unclear. We wanted to identify the components of the DET1 complex, but large-scale biochemical purification from Arabidopsis was not possible because the abundance of even the overexpressed Myc-DET1 decreased with plant age. Therefore we introduced the Myc-DET1 transgene into tobacco Bright Yellow 2 (BY-2) cells, where it could be continually expressed in a uniform population of cells grown to large volumes CITATION . BY-2-cell-expressed Myc-DET1 still formed an approximately 350 kDa complex CITATION . In contrast, baculovirus-produced DET1-His-Strep was detected only as a monomer CITATION . This result suggested that the 350 kDa complex is not simply a DET1 multimer and that Arabidopsis DET1 may interact specifically with other plant proteins. To purify these additional plant proteins, we incubated extracts of Myc-DET1-transformed BY-2 cells with α-Myc beads, washed them extensively, and then the complex was eluted at low pH. Complex elution was followed by an α-Myc Western blot CITATION . Coomassie Blue staining of the eluted fractions always detected an approximately 120 kDa protein with the same elution profile as Myc-DET1 CITATION . This protein was never detected when the same experiment was performed with untransformed BY-2 cells (our unpublished data). These results were obtained at least a dozen times in both large- and small-scale preparations. To determine the identity of this unknown 120 kDa tobacco protein, we excised the copurifying band and analyzed it with MALDI mass spectrometry. This technique accurately measures the masses of tryptic peptides of an unknown protein. These peptide masses are then compared with the theoretical peptide masses of tryptic digests of proteins predicted by the sequence database. Because little tobacco sequence is available, identification of the 120 kDa protein requires that its peptide masses match those of a homolog in a sequenced species such as Arabidopsis CITATION or rice CITATION . Peltier et al. CITATION set the following criteria for unambiguous cross-species identification. Within a stringent 15 ppm deviation in mass, at least four nonoverlapping peptides must account for at least 15% of the sequence of the identified protein. In our analysis, a single protein, an Arabidopsis homolog of UV-Damaged DNA Binding Protein 1 (DDB1A), exceeded these standards CITATION . The rice DDB1 and a second Arabidopsis homolog, DDB1B, were also close matches to the tryptic masses determined from the unknown protein. Finally, the 121 kDa mass of DDB1 agrees well with the estimated mass of the unknown protein. Thus DET1 copurifies with the plant homolog of DDB1. DDB1 is a highly conserved protein CITATION . Arabidopsis DDB1A is 83%, 55%, 49%, and 24% identical to its rice, human, Drosophila , and S. pombe homologs. The DDB1 primary sequence does not contain any known functional motifs, although it has been proposed to form several β-propeller structures CITATION . Although DDB1 was initially identified as a component of a UV-Damaged DNA Binding activity (UV-DDB) absent in a subset of xeroderma pigmentosa patients CITATION , its role in nucleotide excision repair is unclear CITATION . Vertebrate UV-DDB has also been shown to interact with a variety of cell cycle proteins CITATION , viral factors CITATION , and chromatin remodeling complexes CITATION . Despite all these biochemical interactions, no genetic role has been described for DDB1 in animals. Arabidopsis appears to be one of the few organisms with two functional copies of the DDB1 gene, At DDB1A and At DDB1B . Expressed sequence tags (ESTs) have been detected for DDB1A in roots, siliques, adult aerial tissue, and seed, and for DDB1B they have been detected in adult aerial tissue CITATION ; DDB 1 A = TC121581, DDB 1 B = TC111422). In order to examine DDB1's role in Arabidopsis , particularly with respect to light signaling, we used reverse genetics to knockout DDB1A and DDB1B function. We used PCR to screen for T-DNA insertions in the genes, and knockout lines of both DDB1A and DDB1B were obtained. Loss of DDB1B appears to be lethal; plants heterozygous for a T-DNA insertion in DDB1B produce no viable homozygotes (our unpublished data), suggesting that DDB1B performs some key function in reproduction or embryogenesis. In contrast, homozygous loss of DDB1A results in no obvious visible phenotype. Although DDB1A and DDB1B are nearly identical at the amino acid level (91%; CITATION ), the MALDI-MS data from the 120 kDa tobacco DET1-interacting protein more closely matches that of DDB1A CITATION . To more closely examine the genetic interaction between det1 and ddb1a , we generated the double mutant. The det1 ddb1a double mutant exhibited enhancement of virtually all det1 phenotypes examined ( CITATION , CITATION ) . When grown in the dark, the ddb1a single mutant was indistinguishable from the wild-type, whereas the det1 ddb1a double mutant was significantly shorter than det1-1 alone ( CITATION , CITATION ). In addition, the double mutant ectopically produced anthocyanin to a greater degree than det1 alone CITATION . When grown in the light, the double mutants had shorter hypocotyls, smaller cotyledons, and higher levels of anthocyanin than det1 , all consistent with enhancement of the det1 phenotype ( CITATION , CITATION ). Light-grown det1 seedlings are pale, and the double mutants were even paler, as determined by analysis of chlorophyll content CITATION . det1 mutants not only underproduced chlorophyll but they also did so with a higher chlorophyll A/B ratio than the wild-type, consistent with previously described light acclimation defects CITATION . Interestingly, this was the only examined det1 phenotype that was not enhanced by the ddb1a mutation; instead, det1 ddb1a mutants exhibited a lower chlorophyll A/B ratio than the wild-type CITATION . In adult plants, the ddb1a mutation enhanced det1 's dwarf stature and lack of apical dominance ( CITATION , CITATION ). In addition, the double mutants were infertile. To determine the basis of this infertility, we examined double mutant flowers. The primary defect appeared to be a lack of stamen elongation coupled with delayed pollen maturation. Upon examination of det1 flowers, we found that they had stamens that were shorter than those of the wild-type, although not to the extent observed in the double mutant CITATION . This may account for det1 's reduced fertility. The double mutant flowers exhibited additional defects such as reduced sepal and petal size, aberrant ovule formation, and occasional homeotic transformation, such as stigmatal tissue on sepals (our unpublished data). Overall, the ddb1a det1-1 double mutant behaved like a strong det1 allele, although not as strong as the null alleles because these are seedling lethal, whereas the double mutant survived to adulthood.
!~MM~! All general molecular biology and biochemistry techniques were performed with standard methods CITATION . Growth of Arabidopsis CITATION and tobacco BY-2 cells CITATION was according to standard protocols. Both wild-type and det1 seedlings were grown in the dark for three days and then exposed to 200 μEm −2 s −1 of white fluorescent light. Plate media was 1× Murashige and Skoog medium (MS; Sigma), plus 0.8% phytagar with no sucrose added. Total RNA was prepared from seedlings at 0, 30, 60, and 180 min after the beginning of the light treatment. This RNA was then used to prepare probes for hybridization to Affymetrix GeneChip arrays according to the manufacturer's instructions. The data were loaded into GeneSpring 4.1.1 and normalized to the 50th percentile. All data (including absent call data) were included in the analysis. Normalization value was restricted to a minimum of 0.0 in eight out of eight conditions (i.e., only genes with positive normalized values were used). The genes were further restricted to those with a minimum raw data value of 100 in four out of eight conditions (this allows, for instance, a gene to be below 100 before induction but forces it to be at least 100 after induction, or to be above 100 for all four conditions in either the wild-type or det1 samples). Genes were considered to be induced by light if their expression was at least 3-fold higher than that in the dark-grown sample at two or more consecutive time points, thus requiring temporal replication of data. Genes were considered to be repressed by light if their expression was 3-fold lower than that in the dark-grown sample at two or more consecutive time points. To confirm our dark-grown data, we compared those genes over- and underexpressed by at least 3-fold in dark-grown det1-1 in this experiment and a completely independent analysis CITATION . Despite differences in experimental conditions (3 day versus 5 day, 0% sucrose versus 1.5% sucrose), 377 genes behaved similarly in both experiments (i.e., were either overexpressed or underexpressed), whereas only 13 genes behaved in the opposite manner (i.e., were overpressed in one case and underexpressed in the other); thus, we believe the data presented here accurately reflect the status of gene expression. The DET1 cDNA (L33695) was cloned either N- or C-terminal to an Arabidopsis -optimized GFP in binary vector pCHF3 as described previously CITATION . Mutations were introduced via site-directed mutagenesis (Stratagene), and truncations were introduced via PCR amplification of shortened versions of the protein. Wild-type Col-0 plants and det1-1 mutants were transformed via standard Agrobacterium -mediated techniques CITATION . We examined rescue in the T2 generation by plating seeds on 1× MS, 2% sucrose, 50 μg/ml kanamycin plates, incubating the seeds at 4°C overnight, treating them with light for 2–6 hr, and then incubating them in the dark for 5 days. Ten seedlings/line were measured for hypocotyl length, and cotyledon opening was inspected visually. Lines were scored for rescue according to the following scheme: 1 = hypocotyl length not significantly different from det1-1 controls, open cotyledons; 2 = intermediate hypocotyl length, open cotyledons; 3 = hypocotyl length not significantly different from wild-type controls, open cotyledons; 4 = hypocotyl length not significantly different from wild-type controls, intermediate cotyledons; 5 = hypocotyl length not significantly different from wild-type controls, closed cotyledons. For GFP localization, three 3- to 4-day-old dark-grown seedlings from 2–3 transformed lines per construct were examined with an FITC filter on an Olympus IX70 Microscope equipped with a 100W mercury lamp and Deltavision software. For protein analysis, approximately 0.5 g of tissue from 7-day-old light-grown seedlings was frozen in liquid nitrogen, ground in a mortar and pestle with 0.5 ml protein extract buffer (PEB) (30 mM Tris-HCl [pH 7.5], 2 mM EDTA, 2 mM DTT, and 0.8 mM Pefabloc [Boehringer Mannheim]), thawed, then spun for 10 min at 14,000 rpm at 4°C. Equal amounts of total protein were analyzed by Western blot and probed with α-GFP antibody (Clontech or Santa Cruz). For gel filtration, approximately 100 μg total protein was loaded onto a Sephadex 200 column equilibrated in gel filtration (GF) buffer (10 mM Tris-HCl [pH 7.5], 1 mM EDTA, 0.1 mM DTT, 150 mM NaCl, and 10% glycerol) and eluted in 0.5 ml fractions. Gel filtration standards (Pharmacia) were used to calibrate the column. The void volume eluted in fractions 7 and 8, so masses above about 1000 kDa were not accurately resolved. Samples were precipitated with an equal volume of 10% trichloroacetic acid, then analyzed via Western blot. Myc-DET1 was constructed by fusion of a 6xMyc tag (generous gift of N.V. Raikhel) to the N terminus of the DET1 cDNA and subsequent fusion into the binary vector pMD1 (derived from pBI121 [Clontech]). DET1-His-Strep was made by fusion of a His and Strep tag II (Sigma Genosys) to the DET1 C terminus; this construct was then cloned into the baculovirus vector pVL1392 (Pharmingen). Clarified lysate of transfected Sf9 cells was loaded onto the Sephadex 200 column as above, and fractions were Western blotted and detected with peroxidase-labeled Strepavidin (KPL). Myc-DET1 was stably transformed into tobacco BY-2 cells as described CITATION . Small-scale protein extract preparation and gel filtration analysis were performed as described above, with α-Myc polyclonal (Santa Cruz) used for blotting. For complex purification, approximately 50 ml packed cell volume of transformed BY-2 cells were mixed 1:1 with PEB, frozen and ground as above, and centrifuged at 10,000 rpm in an SS-34 rotor at 4°C for 10 min, then centrifuged again at 25,000 rpm in a SW28 rotor at 4°C for 30 min. The resulting approximately 70 ml supernatant was incubated with rotation at 4°C for 2–4 hr with 0.5 ml α-Myc beads (Convance). The beads were collected with a low-speed spin, washed in bulk with 3× 50 ml GF buffer, and then loaded onto a small column. Six 0.5 ml fractions of 0.5 M NH 4 acetate (pH 3.4) were used to elute the complex, then lyophilized overnight. The fractions were resuspended in sample buffer and analyzed with SDS-PAGE. The Coomassie Blue-stained 120 kDa band was excised with a razor blade and trypsin digested, then peptide masses were determined on a PerSeptive Voyager STR MALDI mass spectrometer in reflector mode. Database searching was done with Profound. T-DNA insertions in the DDB1A and DDB1B genes were found by using PCR to screen pools of Col-0 insertion lines with T-DNA and gene-specific primers. Insertion sites were confirmed by sequencing. The ddb1b allele has an insertion approximately 400 bp upstream of the translation start site, whereas the ddb1a insertion is in the 5′ splice site of the tenth exon. The ddb1a det1 double mutant was generated from a cross of ddb1a to det1-1 . DET1 and DDB1A are only about 10 cM apart on chromosome IV, so F2 progeny were screened first for the det1 phenotype and then for the ddb1a allele by PCR. A single double homozygote and 11 det1 ddb1a/+ plants were obtained from about 400 total F2. The double homozygote was infertile, and the det1 ddb1a/+ heterozygotes were only partially fertile, so approximately 200 “wild-type” (non- det ) F2 were screened for ddb1a det1/+ heterozygotes by PCR for the ddb1a allele and a det1-1 CAPS marker. Eight ddb1a det1/+ individuals were identified, and all eight segregate apparently wild-type to double mutant progeny in a 3:1 ratio. All analysis described was performed on these segregating progeny of ddb1a det1/+ plants. Anthocyanin and chlorophyll measurements were performed on pooled populations as described in Chory CITATION except that Arnon's equations CITATION were used to calculate chlorophyll, and two independent samples/genotype were analyzed. A supplementary table giving microarray data is available online at http://images.cellpress.com/supmat/supmatin.htm .
