!~ABS~! Acetyl-coenzyme A (CoA) is used in the cytosol of plant cells for the synthesis of a diverse set of phytochemicals including waxes, isoprenoids, stilbenes, and flavonoids. The source of cytosolic acetyl-CoA is unclear. We identified two Arabidopsis cDNAs that encode proteins similar to the amino and carboxy portions of human ATP-citrate lyase (ACL). Coexpression of these cDNAs in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) confers ACL activity, indicating that both the Arabidopsis genes are required for ACL activity. Arabidopsis ACL is a heteromeric enzyme composed of two distinct subunits, ACLA (45 kD) and ACLB (65 kD). The holoprotein has a molecular mass of 500 kD, which corresponds to a heterooctomer with an A4B4 configuration. ACL activity and the ACLA and ACLB polypeptides are located in the cytosol, consistent with the lack of targeting peptides in the ACLA and ACLB sequences. In the Arabidopsis genome, three genes encode for the ACLA subunit (ACLA-1, At1g10670; ACLA-2, At1g60810; and ACLA-3, At1g09430), and two genes encode the ACLB subunit (ACLB-1, At3g06650 and ACLB-2, At5g49460). The ACLA and ACLB mRNAs accumulate in coordinated spatial and temporal patterns during plant development. This complex accumulation pattern is consistent with the predicted physiological needs for cytosolic acetyl-CoA, and is closely coordinated with the accumulation pattern of cytosolic acetyl-CoA carboxylase, an enzyme using cytosolic acetyl-CoA as a substrate. Taken together, these results indicate that ACL, encoded by theACLA and ACLB genes of Arabidopsis, generates cytosolic acetyl-CoA. The heteromeric organization of this enzyme is common to green plants (including Chlorophyceae, Marchantimorpha, Bryopsida, Pinaceae, monocotyledons, and eudicots), species of fungi, Glaucophytes, Chlamydomonas, and prokaryotes. In contrast, all known animal ACL enzymes have a homomeric structure, indicating that a evolutionary fusion of theACLA and ACLB genes probably occurred early in the evolutionary history of this kingdom.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis expressed sequence tag (EST) database was searched with the TBLASTN algorithm (CITATION) using the human ACL sequence as the search query. This search identified two groups of nonoverlapping ESTs that exhibit high sequence similarity to the N-terminal one-third and C-terminal two-thirds of the human ACL protein, respectively (CITATION). A representative EST from each of these two groups was completely sequenced. One of these, TASG097 (hereafter referred to as ACLA-1), shares 60% sequence similarity with the N-terminal portion of the human ACL and is a near full-length cDNA clone. The other clone, VBVYC01 (hereafter referred to as ACLB-2-partial), shares 71% sequence similarity with the C-terminal portion of the human ACL and is a partial cDNA. A 2.2-kb full-length cDNA clone ofACLB-2-partial (hereafter referred to as ACLB-2) was isolated from a lambda cDNA silique library (made by L.A. Castle and D.W. Meinke, Oklahoma State University), obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Columbus, OH). To investigate the biochemical function of these cDNAs, and thus test the sequence-based hypothesis that they encode subunits of ACL, each cDNA was expressed in Escherichia coli, and the recombinant proteins were used to generate antisera (see supplemental data athttp://molebio.iastate.edu/∼mash/Ecoli.html). Western-blot analyses of SDS-PAGE-fractionated Arabidopsis protein extracts revealed that anti-ACLA-1 serum reacts with a 45-kD polypeptide, and anti-ACLB-2 serum reacts with a 65-kD polypeptide (Fig.2). The molecular weights of these immunologically identified polypeptides are in close agreement with those predicted from the ACLA-1 (423-residue polypeptide) and ACLB-2 (608-residue polypeptide) cDNA sequences.  [[FIGURE]] The biochemical function of these two proteins was identified by expressing each cDNA in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, an organism without ACL. The ACLA-1 andACLB-2 cDNAs were cloned into the S. cerevisiae integrative expression vectors, pYX042 and pYX012, and were integrated individually or in combination at theleu2 and ura3 loci of S. cerevisiaestrain αD273. The integration of each of these transgenes was selected on the basis of Leu and/or uracil auxotrophy, and was confirmed by Southern-blot analyses of DNA isolated from the resulting transgenic strains (see supplemental data athttp://molebio.iastate.edu/∼mash/yeast.html). Western-blot analyses of protein extracts prepared from the recombinant yeast strains confirmed that the Arabidopsis transgenes were expressed (Fig.3, A and B). No immunological reaction was detected in extracts from the parental yeast strain αD273 with anti-ACLA-1 or anti-ACLB-2 sera. However, immunological reactions were detected at the predicted molecular weights in strains carrying the ACLA-1 and ACLB-2 transgenes. Extracts from each of these yeast strains were assayed for ACL activity (Fig. 3C). ACL activity was only detectable in the strain coexpressing the ACLA-1 and ACLB-2 transgenes, but not in the parental strain or the two strains expressing these transgenes individually. These results conclusively demonstrate thatACLA-1 and ACLB-2 code for two distinct and essential subunits of the Arabidopsis ACL. We termed these subunits ACLA and ACLB, respectively.  [[FIGURE]] To ascertain if the ACLA and ACLB subunits are associated in a complex, and to begin to determine the physical nature of this complex, the distribution of ACL activity and ACLA and ACLB subunits were determined after fractionation of plant extracts by nondenaturing gel electrophoresis, anion-exchange chromatography, and gel-filtration chromatography. Following gel-filtration chromatography of Arabidopsis silique extracts, 64% of the ACL activity applied to the column was recovered in fractions 11 through 19 (Fig. 4A). The ACLA and ACLB subunits cofractionate with ACL activity (Fig. 4B), coeluting as a complex of 500 ± 30 kD. Analogous experiments were also conducted with extracts from pea (Pisum sativum) seedlings (data not shown), and again in these experiments, ACL activity and the immunologically identified ACLA and ACLB subunits coeluted, with an M r of 470 ± 30 kD.  [[FIGURE]] Additional evidence for ACL being a heteromeric complex of ACLA and ACLB subunits was obtained from ion-exchange chromatography experiments with pea shoot extracts. The ACLA and ACLB subunits coelute from a Mono-Q column as a single peak at 110 mm NaCl (data not shown). ACL-containing Arabidopsis extracts were fractionated by nondenaturing PAGE. In each of four repetitions of this experiment, ACLA and ACLB subunits comigrated, indicating that these proteins associate in a single complex (Fig. 4C). Knowing the subcellular location of ACL is critical to deducing its physiological function. Previous studies of the subcellular location of this enzyme have been inconclusive. An initial study indicated a plastidic location (CITATION), whereasCITATION indicated a cytosolic location; more recent studies indicated a cytosolic and plastidic location (CITATION; CITATION). The three ACLA and two ACLB polypeptides encoded in the Arabidopsis genome do not contain an N-terminal organelle-targeting extension sequence relative to the animal ACL sequence. Computational predictions with PSORT (CITATION) and TARGETP (CITATION) algorithms are inconclusive. PSORT indicates that the three ACLA proteins are in the cytosol or in peroxisomes; TARGETP predicts that they are not targeted to plastids, mitochondria, or secreted. PSORT predicts a nuclear localization for the two Arabidopsis ACLB gene products, whereas TARGETP predicts a mitochondrial localization. Neither program predicts a plastidic location for any of the ACLA or ACLB polypeptides. To directly determine the subcellular location of ACL, pea organelles were fractionated by differential centrifugation. This fractionation resulted in the isolation of two fractions that were enriched in chloroplasts, and mitochondria plus peroxisomes, plus the 12,000g supernatant fraction, which should contain the cytosol and the contents of broken organelles. The chloroplasts, mitochondria, and peroxisomes were further purified by Percoll-density gradient centrifugation. The integrity and purity of each fraction was ascertained by assaying each fraction with a series of organelle-specific marker enzymes (assayed enzymatically or immunologically; Fig. 5). To be specific, NADP-GAPDH and the BCCP1 subunit of the chloroplastic acetyl-CoA carboxylase (CITATION) were used as markers for the chloroplasts; cytochrome c oxidase and MCC-A, a mitochondrial matrix protein (CITATION; CITATION), were used as markers for the mitochondria; HPR and catalase were used as markers for peroxisomes; and PEP carboxylase was used as the marker for the cytosol.  [[FIGURE]] As judged by the specific activities of each of the organelle-specific enzymes and the distribution of immunologically detected protein markers, the three Percoll-purified organelle fractions are highly enriched in chloroplasts, mitochondria, and peroxisomes (Fig. 5). The low level of PEP carboxylase activity in the mitochondrial and peroxisomal pellet indicates a low level of cytosolic contamination, and the Percoll-purified chloroplast, mitochondrion, and peroxisome fractions had no detectable cytosolic contamination (Fig. 5A). In addition, the Percoll-purified chloroplast fraction appears to be nearly devoid of mitochondrial and peroxisomal contamination based on the absence of cytochrome c oxidase and HPR activities (Fig. 5A), MCC-A (Fig. 5B), and the low level of catalase (Fig. 5B). Based on the recoveries of HPR and cytochromec oxidase activities, MCC-A, and catalase, the Percoll-purified peroxisomes and mitochondria are cross-contaminated; however, these fractions are free from chloroplastic contamination as judged by the absence of NADP-GAPDH activity (Fig. 5A) and BCCP1 (Fig.5B). As expected, the 12,000g supernatant fraction contains the cytosol (as indicated by PEP carboxylase activity), as well as enzymes from broken chloroplasts, mitochondria, and peroxisomes. The specific activity of ACL (Fig. 5A) and ACLA and ACLB subunits (Fig.5B) among these subcellular fractions closely mirrors that of the cytosolic marker, PEP carboxylase. ACLA subunit, ACLB subunit, and ACL and PEP carboxylase activities are detected only in the crude extract and in the 12,000g supernatant. ACL activity or ACLA and ACLB subunits are undetectable in the Percoll-purified organelle fractions. These experimental data are consistent with the hypothesis that ACL is a cytosolic enzyme. Insights into the potential functions of cytosolic acetyl-CoA generation can be obtained from evaluating the spatial and temporal pattern of pattern of ACL expression. Northern-blot hybridizations were conducted to examine the temporal pattern of ACLA andACLB mRNA accumulation in leaves, flower buds, and during silique development. Peak accumulation of these two mRNAs occurs at the youngest stages of silique development (1–2 d after flowering [DAF]) with a level of accumulation comparable with that in flower buds (Fig. 6). By about 4 DAF, when the siliques have ceased expanding, the accumulation of theACLA and ACLB mRNAs steadily declines, and by 8 to 9 DAF, accumulation is about 5% of peak levels. Throughout this development, the accumulation patterns of ACLA andACLB mRNAs are closely coordinated.  [[FIGURE]] In situ hybridizations revealed a far more complex pattern ofACL mRNA accumulation: The ACL mRNAs accumulate transiently in discrete cell types at specific developmental stages (Fig. 7). In expanding leaves, theACLA (Fig. 7A) and ACLB (Fig.7E) mRNAs accumulate preferentially in trichomes and epidermal cells. In flower buds at stage 6 of development, the accumulation of these mRNAs is highly concentrated in tapetal cells (Fig. 7, B and F). By stage 10 of flower development, accumulation is less discreet but is concentrated in the epidermal cells of growing petals and ovaries (Fig.7, C and G). In young siliques, when the embryos are approximately at the 4-cell stage (1 DAF), the ACLA and ACLB mRNAs are highly concentrated in the inner integument of the ovules (Fig. 7, D and H). The accumulation in the inner integument is transient and occurs just prior to testal deposition (Fig. 7, D and M). In all analyses, the ACL-B mRNA accumulation pattern is indistinguishable from that of ACLA (Fig. 7, A–H). In addition, this pattern of accumulation of ACLmRNAs is almost indistinguishable from that of the homomeric acetyl-CoA carboxylase mRNA (Fig. 7, I–L). The spatial distribution of the ACLA and ACLB mRNAs changes within the tissues of the silique during its development. Whereas these mRNAs are initially concentrated in the inner integument of the ovules at 1 DAF (Fig. 7, D and H), they disappear from this tissue by 3 DAF and begin to accumulate within the developing embryo, which is now at the globular stage of development (Fig. 7M). At 5 DAF (Fig. 7N) and 7 DAF (Fig. 7O), when the embryos are undergoing rapid growth and initiation of oil accumulation occurs (heart and torpedo stages), there is maximal accumulation of these mRNAs within the embryos. (Only the ACLA in situ hybridization data is shown for Fig. 7 M–AA; theACLB data are virtually identical.) Later in silique development, at 9 DAF (Fig. 7P), when the embryos are reaching maturity, the accumulation of these two mRNAs decline, and they are no longer detectable in mature embryos at 12 DAF (Fig. 7Q).  [[FIGURE]] Upon seed germination, the accumulation of the two ACL mRNAs is induced, but their spatial distribution within the seedling is tissue specific. At 2 d after imbibition, the ACL mRNAs are concentrated in the vascular bundles, the apical meristem (Fig. 7, S and T), and the epidermis of the seedling cotyledon, stem, and root (Fig. 7, R, T, and U). Most dramatic is the immense accumulation of these mRNAs in the root tip (Fig. 7V shows seedlings 4 d after imbibition). Tissues within a number of organs show a dramatic but transient accumulation of the ACL mRNAs. For example, within the anthers, high levels of ACLA and ACLB mRNAs accumulate for 1 d in the tapetal cells when the flower buds are at stage 10 of their development (Fig. 7, compare B with C). Another such example is the stigma, where the ACLA andACLB mRNAs are highly abundant when the flower is at stage 12 of development (Fig. 7W), but decrease about 1 d later when the flowers open (Fig. 7X). Young vascular bundles of a number of organs accumulate high levels of the ACLA and ACLB mRNAs. These include expanding leaves (Fig. 7E), cotyledons (Fig. 7R), roots (Fig.7, U and V), pedicel of flowers (Fig. 7Z), and the 2-DAF siliques (Fig. 7AA). ACLA and ACLB mRNAs accumulate in discreet tissues of the flower receptacle, namely, the nectaries and transiently in the newly forming abscission zones of petal and sepals in stage 12 flowers (Fig. 7Y). The three ACLA genes in the Arabidopsis genome are located on chromosome 1, and we labeled them ACLA-1,ACLA-2, and ACLA-3. These genes are positioned at approximately 3.5, 21.6, and 3.0 Mb of the chromosome 1 sequence, respectively. The ACLA subunit that has been the focus of the characterizations presented herein represents the product from theACLA-1 locus. With the exception of the 5′- and 3′-untranslated regions (UTRs), the mRNAs predicted to be derived from the ACLA-2 and ACLA-3 loci share 89% and 73% sequence identity with the ACLA-1 mRNA, respectively. These similarities at the nucleotide sequence level correspond to 95% and 81% identities at the level of amino acid sequence. Because the 5′-UTRs of the ACLA-2 andACLA-3 genes are as yet undefined, its not clear if the single intron present in the 5′-UTR region of the ACLA-1gene is conserved among all the genes. The protein coding regions of the ACLA-2 and ACLA-3 genes are interrupted by 11 introns, whereas in the ACLA-1 gene, 10 introns interrupt the protein coding region; the terminal intron of the ACLA-2and ACLA-3 genes is absent from the ACLA-1 gene. All introns within the ACLA-2 and ACLA-3 gene coding sequences are placed at identical positions relative to the amino acid sequences of the ACLA-2 and ACLA-3 proteins. This conservation of intron positions also extends to the 10ACLA-1 introns. The two ACLB genes, ACLB-1 and ACLB-2, are located at position 2.0 Mb of chromosome 3 and 20.1 Mb of chromosome 5, respectively. The ACLB subunit that has been the focus of the characterizations herein is encoded by the ACLB-2 locus. The protein coding regions of these genes are interrupted by 15 and 14 introns, respectively. The first 14 introns of the ACLB-2gene are identically positioned in the ACLB-1 gene, relative to the amino acid sequence of the respective protein products. Because the 5′-UTR of the ACLB-1 gene is still undefined, its not clear if the intron located at the 5′ end of theACLB-2 gene is conserved in the ACLB-1 gene. The terminal intron in the ACLB-1 gene is absent from theACLB-2 gene. Despite this difference, the protein-coding region of the mRNA predicted from the ACLB-1 locus shares 89% identity with the ACLB-2 mRNA. However, the 5′- and 3′-UTRs of the two mRNAs are very divergent. The ACLB-1 and ACLB-2 proteins are 97% identical. ACL genes are present in a range of eukaryotes, including molds, fungi, plants, protists, and animals, as well as one prokaryote, a green sulfur bacterium (Fig. 8; additional sequences are presented athttp://molebio.iastate.edu/∼mash/alignment.html). Mammalian ACL is a homotetramer with a subunit of about 1,100 amino acids (CITATION, CITATION). We deduced from sequenced genomes that ACL also has a homomeric structure in a primitive chordate (Ciona intestinalis), fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster), and Caenorhabditis elegans. In contrast, plant ACL, typified by the Arabidopsis enzyme, is heteromeric, consisting of ACLA and ACLB subunits. Based upon sequence similarities to genomic and EST sequences, ACL from monocot and dicot angiosperms, a Bryopsida, the liverwort (Marchantia spp.), and the green alga, Chlorella vulgaris, have a heteromeric structure similar to that of Arabidopsis. Photosynthetic protists, including Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and the Glaucophyte, Cyanophora paradoxa, have a similar heteromeric structure. Ascomycota, including the yeast, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, and the filamentous fungi, Sordaria macrospora, contain ACLA and ACLB genes (CITATION). However, our search of GenBank for orthologs of the ACLA and ACLB polypeptides indicates that S. cerevisiae does not contain these genes, consistent with the absence of ACL activity in this species (CITATION). S. cerevisiaegenerates acetyl-CoA for fatty acid synthesis via acetyl-CoA synthetase (CITATION). To date, only a single prokaryotic ACL-like sequence has been reported, from the photosynthetic green sulfur bacterium Chlorobium limicola (CITATION). As with plants, algae, and fungi, C. limicola has separate ACLA and ACLB subunits.  [[FIGURE]] Alignment of ACL sequences reveals a high degree of similarity among the proteins from different organisms. With the exception of several discreet regions of the ACL polypeptides, this sequence conservation is evenly distributed throughout the sequence of these proteins. The most notable exception is the approximately 60-amino acid “spacer” region in animal ACL (residues 427–486 of the human ACL), which corresponds to the segment between the Arabidopsis ACLA and ACLB sequences, and is absent from Arabidopsis and other heteromeric ACLs. This spacer segment is highly divergent, but still recognizable as a homolog, among the animal ACLs. Another notable divergence among these sequences is the insertion of 30 to 35 residues in the middle of the ACLA proteins of Sordaria macrospora, S. pombe (shown in Fig. 8), Aspergillus nidulans, Pneumocystis carinii, and C. vulgaris (see supplemental data athttp://molebio.iastate.edu/∼mash/alignment.html). TheCaenorhabditis elegans ACL contains a 10-residue insertion at this position relative to other ACL proteins (Fig. 8). The N-termini of the S. macrospora and S. pombe ACLA proteins extend past other ACL proteins, and these extensions are highly divergent from each other (Fig. 8 andhttp://molebio.iastate.edu/∼mash/alignment.html). It is interesting that the N terminus of the ACLB protein of S. macrospora is also extended relative to the other ACLB proteins, and this extension has a low similarity to the spacer region in the animal ACL. Domains within the ACLA and ACLB subunits share significant sequence similarity with the α- and β-subunits of succinyl-CoA synthetase (SCS), and a domain of citrate synthase (CS; Fig. 8). For example, the N-terminal one-half of the Arabidopsis ACLA protein shares 26% sequence identity with the β-subunit of Arabidopsis SCS. The N- and C-terminal domains of Arabidopsis ACLB exhibit 26% and 30% sequence identity with the α-subunit of SCS and a 155-residue domain of CS, respectively. The Arabidopsis ACLB domain homologous to CS contains the CS-signature motif. This motif includes the sequence, -GIGHRIK- (residues 485–491), which encompasses the CS active site His residue (His488), and additional residues (His413, Arg499, Asp539, Arg578, and Arg598 inACLB-2) that are essential for activity and binding of oxaloacetate by CS (CITATION). With the exception ofC. intestinalis ACL, which does not have the His residue corresponding to His413 of Arabidopsis, all of these residues are absolutely conserved among all ACLs. The phylogenetic trees shown in Figure9 are based upon the sequence similarities between the SCS and CS homologous domains of ACL. All ACLs partition on separate branches from those that contain the α and β subunits of SCS, and CS. Of the ACL sequences available, the C. limicola ACLA and ACLB show the highest conservation with SCS and CS. Arabidopsis ACLA-1 and ACLA-3, as well as ACLB-1 and B-2, appear to have duplicated recently, however, ACLA-2 and ACLA-1/A-3 may have diverged earlier but prior to the time of the division between monocotyledon and eudicot lineages.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) was grown under constant illumination as described by CITATION, except for seedlings for in situ hybridization, which were grown sterilely on moist filter paper in petri plates at 25°C, under constant illumination. Other materials collected included leaves between one-third and two-thirds of the final size from 17-d-old plants (“expanding leaves”), flower buds staged according to CITATION, siliques at different stages of development (CITATION, CITATION), and inflorescence stems of 4-week-old plants. Pea (Pisum sativum) seeds were planted in a sterile mixture of 30% (v/v) black soil, 30% (v/v) peat moss, and 40% (v/v) Perlite in a 50- × 30- × 6-cm flats; plants were grown in a greenhouse at 22°C to 25°C under a cycle of 16 h of illumination and 8 h of darkness and were fertilized weekly with a solution of 20:10:20 (N:P:K) fertilizer. EST cDNA clones, TASG097 (GenBank accession no. Z18045), VBVYC01 (GenBank accession nos. Z18045 and Z25661), and 60C1T7 (GenBank accession no. T14234) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. In situ hybridization was carried out as described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Sense and antisense 35S-labeled RNA probes were transcribed from the ACLA-1, ACLB-2-partial, and aSalI-NotI subclone of 60C1T7 (ACC1) cDNAs (CITATION). In situ hybridizations were repeated three times using two sets of plant materials that had been independently processed, and they all gave similar results. For all hybridizations, successive sections were hybridized in parallel with sense (negative-control) and antisense RNA probes. In all instances, sense RNA controls showed no or negligible hybridization. Standard procedures were used for manipulation of nucleic acids (CITATION). Both strands of all DNA fragments were sequenced. RNA was isolated by a phenol/SDS method (CITATION,CITATION). 32P-labeled RNAs transcribed from theACLA-1 and ACLB-2-partial cDNA clones were used for hybridization probes (CITATION). The radioactivity was quantified with a Storm 840 PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics, Sunnyvale, CA). Recombinant proteins from ACLA-1 (His and S tagged) and ACLB-2-partial (nontagged) were produced in Escherichia coli using the pET30 and pET17 expression systems, respectively (Novagen, Madison, WI). Recombinant proteins were recovered in inclusion bodies, purified by preparative SDS-PAGE, and each was used to generate antiserum (CITATION). Protein extracts were subjected to electrophoresis in denaturing (CITATION) or nondenaturing conditions (CITATION;CITATION). ACLA-1 and ACLB-2 antiserum were used at a 1:500 dilutions for immunodetection of proteins (CITATION). Biotin-containing polypeptides were detected by125I-streptavidin (CITATION). The isolated full-length cDNAs of ACLA-1 andACLB-2 were subcloned into yeast expression vectors pYX042 and pYX012, respectively, and were used to generate yeast strains carrying the integrated TPI-ACLA-1 orTPI-ACLB-2 transgenes. Recombinant yeast strains were cultured under conditions to express the respective proteins (CITATION). Cell pellets were frozen in aliquots in liquid nitrogen. For each ACL assay, 50 to 100 μL of pellet was thawed on ice, resuspended in 100 μL of extraction buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, 1 mm EDTA, 10 mm dithiothreitol [DTT], 1.5% [w/v] preswollen polyvinylpolypyrrolidone, 1 mmphenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1 mm p-aminobenzamidine, pH 8.0), and homogenized for 30 s in an Eppendorf tube. The slurry was frozen in liquid nitrogen and then pulverized until finely ground, thawed, and centrifuged at 12,000g for 5 min at 4°C. The resulting supernatant was desalted through Sephadex G-50 columns (100 μL extract 0.5 mL−1 bed volume) using an Elution buffer (50 mm NaH2PO4, 1 mmMgCl2, 0.1 mm EDTA, and 1 mm DTT, pH 7.2). Each desalted extract was adjusted to 10% (v/v) glycerol, centrifuged, and assayed immediately for ACL activity. ACL activity was determined with a spectrophotometric assay similar to that of CITATION. The assay detects the ACL-catalyzed generation of oxaloacetate by coupling its appearance to the oxidation of NADH catalyzed by malate dehydrogenase. The oxidation of NADH was monitored by the change in A 340, and ACL activity was calculated using the extinction coefficient of NADH (6.22 mm −1 cm−1). Plant extracts not immediately assayed for ACL activity were desalted by passage through Sephadex G-25 (to reduce NADH oxidation in the absence of CoA), adjusted to 10% (v/v) glycerol, and stored frozen in liquid nitrogen. Storage in 10% (v/v) glycerol at 4°C or storage without glycerol in liquid nitrogen resulted in a loss of about two-thirds of the original activity in 7 d. Storage at 4°C without glycerol resulted in nearly a complete loss of activity in 4 d. The ACL assay is dependent on the ratio of ATP:citrate:Mg2+, presumably because ATP and citrate chelate Mg2+, and Mg2+:ATP is the actual substrate.K m for citrate is 1.7 mm;K m for ATP is 1.6 mm. The optimized ACL assay was conducted in a total volume of 0.5 to 1 mL, containing 30 to 250 μL of extract, 200 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.4, 20 mm MgCl2, 1 mm DTT, 10 mm ATP, 10 mm citrate, 0.2 mm CoA, 6 units of malate dehydrogenase, and 0.1 mm NADH. ACL activity is unaffected by up to 600 mm NaCl. NADH oxidation was determined in the absence of CoA, and the ACL reaction was initiated by addition of CoA. Cytochrome c oxidase was assayed according toCITATION, HPR was assayed according to CITATION, and NADP-GAPDH and PEP carboxylase were assayed according to CITATION. Proteins extracts were prepared and desalted using Sephadex G-25 columns with Elution buffer and were adjusted to 10% (v/v) glycerol (CITATION). Gel-filtration and ion-exchange chromatography was conducted with a chromatography system (Biosys 510; Beckman Instruments, Fullerton, CA). For gel-filtration chromatography, a Superdex 200 HR 30/10 column (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ) was loaded with 0.25 mL of enzyme extract, eluted at a flow rate of 0.25 mL min−1 with 50 mmNaH2PO4, pH 7.2, 0.1 mm EDTA, 1 mm MgCl2, 1 mm DTT, 100 mm NaCl, and 10% (v/v) glycerol, and 0.25-mL fractions were collected. Three fraction profiles were collected and pooled. A portion of each pooled fraction was assayed for ACL activity and the remainder was subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis. Ion-exchange chromatography was conducted with a Mono Q HR 5/5 anion-exchange column (Amersham Biosciences) equilibrated with 20 mm HEPES-NaOH, pH 7.5, 1 mm MgCl2, 1 mm DTT, and 10% (v/v) glycerol, and operated at a flow rate of 0.5 mL min−1. The column was eluted with a 10-mL, 0 to 0.35 m NaCl concentration gradient, followed by a 5-mL, 0.35 to 1.0 m NaCl concentration gradient. Eluant was monitored with a conductivity detector. One-milliliter fractions were collected, the A 280 was determined, and aliquots were subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis and assayed for ACL activity. Organelles were isolated from 10- to 11-d-old pea shoots using a Percoll gradient-based procedure (CITATION). Seedlings were placed in darkness late in the afternoon of the day prior to the isolation to ensure depletion of starch. Chilled plant material (50 g) was homogenized using a mortar and pestle with 100 mL of 0.33m sorbitol, 10 mmNaP2O7, 5 mm MgCl2, and 2 mm ascorbate, pH 6.5, and filtered through four layers of cheesecloth. The filtrate was centrifuged at 1,500g for 3 min. Each 1,500g pellet was resuspended in 2 mL of resuspension buffer (0.33 m sorbitol, 2 mmEDTA, 1 mm MgCl2, 1 mmMnCl2, and 50 mm HEPES, pH 7.6) to yield a crude chloroplast fraction. Chloroplasts were further purified on discontinuous Percoll gradients. Three milliliters of the crude chloroplast fraction was dispensed in each of two 15-mL Corex tubes, each containing 3 mL of 70% (v/v) Percoll and 6 mL of 40% (v/v) Percoll in resuspension buffer, and centrifuged at 2,500g for 12 min. Intact chloroplasts formed a band at the Percoll concentration interface. Intact chloroplasts were washed twice in resuspension buffer with centrifugation at 1,500g for 3 min, and were resuspended in 2 mL of resuspension buffer to yield the Percoll-purified chloroplasts. The 1,500g supernatant was centrifuged at 12,000g for 10 min and the resulting pellet was resuspended in 1 mL of resuspension buffer, yielding a mitochondria plus peroxisome fraction. Mitochondria and peroxisomes were further purified by Percoll density gradient as detailed by CITATION. The 12,000g supernatant was also retained and analyzed. Fractions were assayed for ACL activity and activities of organelle marker enzymes. For ACL assays, samples were sonicated 20 s mL−1 at 60% output power, and they were desalted by Sephadex G-25 with 50 mm NaH2PO4, 1 mm MgCl2, 0.1 mm EDTA, 1 mm DTT, pH 7.2, and 10% (v/v) glycerol. ACL activity was not assayed in the purified mitochondria and peroxisomes. Samples were also subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis with anti-catalase (CITATION), anti-ACLA, anti-ACLB, and streptavidin (CITATION). Assays and blots were repeated twice with similar results. The sequences for phylogenetic analysis were obtained from the GenBank database containing amino acid sequences determined from ESTs, overlapping EST fragments, and putative sequences inferred from DNA (see supplemental data athttp://molebio.iastate.edu/∼mash/alignment.html). Amino acid sequences were aligned with ClustalW (CITATION) in BioEdit package (CITATION). Phylogenetic trees were constructed from aligned sequences using maximum likelihood and parsimony with 100 bootstrap resampling methods of the PHYLIP 3.573 software package (CITATION). The domains used for the comparisons are: ACLA compared with SCS-β (residues 257–364 in Arabidopsis ACLA), ACLB compared with SCS-α (residues 187–284 in Arabidopsis ACLB), and ACLB compared with CS (residues 419–575 in Arabidopsis ACLB; see Fig. 8 to identify location of the domains).
