!~ABS~! Recently in yeast and animal cells, one particular class of ubiquitin ligase (E3), called the SCF, was demonstrated to regulate diverse processes including cell cycle and development. In plants SCF-dependent proteolysis is also involved in different developmental and hormonal regulations. To further investigate the function of SCF, we characterized at the molecular level the Arabidopsis RING-H2 finger protein AtRbx1. We demonstrated that the plant gene is able to functionally complement a yeast knockout mutant strain and showed that AtRbx1 protein interacts physically with at least two members of theArabidopsis cullin family (AtCul1 and AtCul4). AtRbx1 also associates with AtCul1 and the Arabidopsis SKP1-related proteins in planta, indicating that it is part of plant SCF complexes. AtRbx1 mRNAs accumulate in various tissues of the plant, but at higher levels in tissues containing actively dividing cells. Finally to study the function of the gene in planta, we either overexpressed AtRbx1 or reduced its expression by a dsRNA strategy. Down-regulation of AtRbx1impaired seedling growth and development, indicating that the gene is essential in plants. Furthermore, the AtRbx1-silenced plants showed a reduced level of AtCul1 protein, but accumulated higher level of cyclin D3. 
!~RES~!  A. thaliana data base searches led to the identification of two different genes calledAtRbx1;1 and AtRbx1;2, located on chromosome 5 (At5g20570) and chromosome 3 (At3g42830), respectively. The sequence of the longest EST for AtRbx1;1 was determined, and it encodes an 118-amino acid open reading frame, which is complete at its N-terminal end as indicated by an in-frame stop codon upstream of the initiation codon. AtRbx1;1 and the predicted AtRbx1;2 protein sequences exhibit 87% sequence identity. Both proteins are closely related to human Rbx1 protein (86% identity and over 91% similarity between AtRbx1;1 and HsRbx1 sequences). The plant sequences were aligned with yeast and different animal Rbx1 protein sequences (see Fig.1). All the residues proposed to form the zinc binding sites (CITATION) are perfectly conserved. Interestingly, bothArabidopsis proteins belong to the Roc1/Rbx1 subgroup and are more distant from the Roc2/Rbx2 proteins.  [[FIGURE]]  rbx1 is an essential gene in yeast, and its inactivation arrests the cell cycle at the G1/S transition and results in the stabilization of different SCF substrates, like Sic1p and Cln2p (CITATION, CITATION). The diploid rbx1 deletion strain MCY557 (CITATION), which produces only two viable spores from each tetrad, was transformed with a plasmid expressing either the plant or the humanRbx1 gene. After tetrad dissection, all four spores were viable on YPD and SD-uracil media, indicating that both plant (Fig.2) and mammalian (Refs. CITATION and CITATION and data not shown) Rbx1 genes were able to rescue the viability defect of the yeast mutant strain.  [[FIGURE]] We next determined whether AtRbx1 interacts with plant cullins (Fig. 3). AtRbx1 was cloned into the pGBKT7 bait plasmid to produce a fusion protein with Gal4 DNA binding domain. Another small Arabidopsis RingH2 protein (CITATION) not related to the primary protein sequence of AtRbx1 was also introduced into pGBKT7 plasmid. AtCul1 (At4g02570) and AtCul4 (At5g46210) were cloned into the prey pGADT7 vector to produce fusion proteins with the Gal4 activation domain. Only AtRbx1 and not the other small RingH2 protein interacted with the cullin proteins by the two-hybrid assay (Fig. 3 A). β-Galactosidase activities, used to quantify the protein interactions, indicated that the AtRbx1 interacts similarly with both AtCul1 and AtCul4 proteins (Fig.3 B).  [[FIGURE]] To further demonstrate the physical interaction between AtRbx1 and the AtCul1 protein, we performed pull-down assays. AtRbx1;1 was expressed in Escherichia coli as a translational fusion protein with GST. The purified GST-Rbx1 fusion protein (or GST alone as a control) was incubated with Arabidopsis crude protein extracts, and the bound plant proteins were immunoblotted with the AtCul1 antibody. AtCul1 co-purified with the GST-Rbx1 fusion protein but not with the GST protein alone (Fig. 3 C). AtCul1 protein migrated as a doublet, with the weaker upper band corresponding most obviously to the Rub1-modified form of the protein (CITATION). The identity of the cullin protein was further confirmed by the competition assay using the AtCul1 peptide.  In addition, SCF complexes were immunoprecipitated from transgenic plant extracts expressing either the myc-tagged ASK1 or themyc-tagged ASK2 proteins and analyzed for the presence of AtRbx1 and AtCul1. Both AtRbx1 and AtCul1 proteins co-immunoprecipitated with either myc-tagged ASK1 (data not shown) or the myc-tagged ASK2 (Fig. 3 D). It is worth noting that the interaction between AtRbx1 and the ASK proteins is indirect and most likely mediated by the AtCul1 protein. Thus, our data clearly demonstrate the ASK1/2, AtCul1, and AtRbx1 proteins form complexes in planta.  Based on the available EST sequences, it appears thatAtRbx1;1 is expressed at a higher level thanAtRbx1;2; In the current data bases, six different ESTs are found for AtRbx1;1, but none for AtRbx1;2. To determine whether the AtRbx1;2 gene is expressed, we performed semiquantitative RT-PCR with specific primers designed from the 3′-untranslated region of both genes. Whereas AtRbx1;1primer set efficiently amplified AtRbx1;1 transcript from floral buds, stems, and roots, no PCR product was obtained withAtRbx1;2 primer set (data not shown), suggesting thatAtRbx1;2 gene is very poorly or not at all expressed, at least in these plant organs.  RNA blot analyses were performed to investigate AtRbx1expression, and its mRNAs could be detected in all the plant organs analyzed (Fig. 4 A). Nevertheless its mRNAs accumulate, as histone H4, at higher levels in flowers and germinated seeds, indicating a higher expression in tissues containing actively dividing cells. This was reinforced by the finding that its expression is also stimulated during re-initiation of mitotic activity in Arabidopsis (Fig. 4 B). In this system, differentiated leaf cells are stimulated to re-enter the cell cycle by wounding and auxin stimulation (CITATION). In contrast to histone H4, which is expressed at the highest level at 48 h when most of the cells are in S phase (48 h of culture corresponding to the highest [3H]dTTP incorporation, data not shown),AtRbx1 mRNAs accumulate at different times during the culture. Thus, we have no evidence for a specific cell cycle phase accumulation of AtRbx1 transcripts.  [[FIGURE]] Because SCF-dependent proteolysis was shown to play a key function in auxin signaling (reviewed in Refs. CITATION and CITATION), we investigated whether AtRbx1 gene transcription can itself be induced by auxin. We chose an experimental system using hypocotyls of etiolated seedling because of its rapid response to auxin (CITATION). The level of AtRbx1 transcript remained unchanged 1 h after the treatment with auxins, whereas the positive control SAURgene responded positively to the treatments (Fig. 4 C). It is thus unlikely that AtRbx1 belongs to the auxin-responsive gene family. We also tested AtRbx1 gene expression under different growth conditions including dark to light transition and heat shock. Whereas AtRbx1 gene did not respond to light (Fig.4 D), its mRNAs rapidly decayed 1 h after heat shock treatment (Fig. 4 E).  To investigate the function of AtRbx1 in planta, we designed constructs to either overexpress or silence the gene inArabidopsis (see Fig. 5). Because Rbx1 is an essential gene in budding yeast and is involved in SCF-dependent ubiquitylation and degradation of cell cycle regulatory proteins (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), we investigated its function in plants by setting up inducible PTGS and overexpression assays. We also engineered different control plants: either empty vector transgenic plants or plants expressing GFP or GUS under the control of the inducible vector. GFP and GUS expression were confirmed in some of the plants. Seeds of the T1 generation from more than 25 different transgenic lines for each construct were sown in vitro in the presence or absence of Dex (1 μm) and were analyzed phenotypically and at the molecular level.  [[FIGURE]] Accordingly to the results published in Ref. CITATION, but to a much lesser extent, 2 control lines (pTA::4 and pTA::GFP6) of 39 lines analyzed (24 empty vector, 10 pTA::GUS, and 5 pTA::GFP lines), showed alteration in seedling development. Line pTA::GFP6 had a low yield of germination, whereas line pTA::4 showed shrink-shaped cotyledons (see below).  As expected higher levels of AtRbx1 mRNA and protein were found in the pTA::Rbx1-overexpressing lines (called sense lines) (Fig. 6 (A andB) and data not shown). The antibody used was specific, as demonstrated by the competition assays (Fig. 6 C). 19 out of 27 sense lines analyzed showed a shrink cotyledon shape (Fig.7, A and B). However, a similar phenotype was found in control line pTA::4 (data not shown), exhibiting strong expression of the chimeric GVG transcription factor (CITATION) and the induction of the defensin gene PDF1.2 (CITATION) (Fig. 6 A). Thus we did not consider the shrinkage of the cotyledons as a phenotype because of Rbx1 overexpression, but rather as side effects of the vector. Furthermore in all sense lines and control lines, the development of the leaves was not disturbed and plants grew normally on the Dex-containing medium, at least during the early vegetative growth phase.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Similar to the sense lines, most of the pTA::dsRNA lines (called dsRNA lines) (21/28 lines, 75%) also showed the shrink-shaped cotyledon phenotype (data not shown). AtRbx1 mRNA and protein levels were found reduced in those lines (Fig.8 A, lanes 3 and 4). Interestingly, 83% of the dsRNA lines grown for more than 30 days in the presence of Dex developed small green bushy plants (5–30%/plate), as illustrated for line dsRNA-84 (Fig. 7 C) with reduced AtRbx1 RNA and protein levels (Fig.8 A, lane 5). When the 3-week-oldin vitro bushy plants were transferred to soil, either they remained dwarf but produced few flowers (Fig. 7 D,inset) or they developed plants with reduced apical dominance (data not shown). Because SCF pathway is involved in auxin signaling (reviewed in Ref. CITATION), we expected to find auxin-related phenotypes. Indeed, ∼10% of the T0 dsRNA lines already showed reduced apical dominance, probably as a result of the leaky expression of the promoter. Similarly, plants exhibiting a reduction in apical dominance with a strong increase in the number of lateral branches were observed in the progeny of several dsRNA lines, and those plants always exhibited a reduction of AtRbx1 mRNA levels (as illustrated for line dsRNA-76; Fig. 7, E andinset). A more detailed analysis of auxin responses in these lines is under way.  [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, in three dsRNA lines (dsRNA-2, dsRNA-20, and dsRNA-33), the development of the seedlings was severely impaired (as shown for line dsRNA-2; Fig. 7, F and G). In those plants, and in contrast to the control or non-induced lines, cotyledons did not develop at all (remaining white) and strong leaf growth retardation and leaf expansion effects were observed. At 10 days after germination, the average length of cotyledons for the dsRNA-2 transgenic plants was 0.82 mm (± 0.05 mm, n = 20) compared with 2.48 mm (± 0.12 mm, n = 23) for cotyledons of Dex-treated wild type plants. At this stage, no difference could be found in cotyledon vascularization patterns (data not shown), overall tissue organization, or cellular size (Fig. 7, H and I). Only the plastid content was found to be different, exhibiting swollen plastids phenotypically identical to amyloplasts. High starch content of the latter was confirmed by Lugol staining (data not shown). Nevertheless at a latter stage (3 weeks after germination), both the size and shape of cotyledon epidermal cells were different. Whereas in the non-induced dsRNA-2 line the average area of cotyledon epidermal cells was 8259 μm2 (± 3948 μm2, n = 115), this value was reduced by a factor of 10 in the AtRbx1-silenced plants (average area of the cells was 801 μm2 (± 338 μm2, n = 115)).   AtRbx1 mRNA (Fig. 8 B, lane 3) and protein (Fig. 9) levels were strongly reduced in those lines, but still detectable. We believe that the strong developmental alteration found in those dsRNA lines is caused by the Rbx1 depletion and not by the chimeric GVG transcription factor expression (or other effects) because this phenotype was never found in control or Rbx1-overexpressing lines. It is also worth noting that the intermediary RNA can be detected by both AtRbx1 and GFP probes and that at least some of the spacer-GFP RNA always accumulates in the Dex-induced plants (Fig. 8 B). More than 30 plants of line dsRNA-2 (at the stage indicated in Fig. 7 F) were transferred to plates with or without Dex. One week later, only the plants on the Dex-free medium recovered, developing normal leaves and re-accumulating the AtRbx1 transcripts (see Fig. 8 B,lane 4). Nevertheless, some of the plants became bushy (data not shown). Thus, in contrast to a systemic PTGS reaction (reviewed in Refs. CITATION and CITATION), silencing occurring in the dsRNA lines was reversible.  [[FIGURE]] To confirm that AtRbx1 mRNA decay was the result of dsRNA-induced PTGS, we assayed for the presence of 21–23-nucleotideAtRbx1 fragments in the Dex-treated plants. Six-week-old rosette plants of dsRNA-2 line, as well as pTA::GFP control and wild type plants, grown under standard conditions in the green house were sprayed with a solution of 10 μm Dex and harvested at different times. Semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis of the plants indicated a strong reduction of AtRbx1 mRNAs 4 days after Dex treatment, specifically in the dsRNA line (Fig.8 C). 21–23-nucleotide species were readily detected in the low molecular weight RNA fractions of the Dex-treated pTA::dsRNA plants (Fig. 8 D), but not in the GFP-expressing control lines or wild type plants (data not shown). The small RNA fragments appeared 24 h after the treatment and reached the highest accumulation at 96 h.  To understand the biochemical basis of the severe growth defects observed in some of the dsRNA lines, protein extracts from dsRNA-2 line and control line were blotted with different antibodies (Fig. 9). Interestingly, we noted that AtRbx1-depleted seedlings do not only show a strong reduction of AtRbx1 protein level, but also a decreased AtCul1 protein level. In fact, both Rub1-modified and unmodified AtCul1 protein bands were weaker. To check whether the reductions of AtRbx1 and, to a lesser extent, AtCul1 would affect the pattern of ubiquitin conjugates, the blot was probed with an anti-ubiquitin antibody that recognizes both free and conjugated ubiquitin. Indeed, we noted that several protein bands either disappeared or were strongly reduced in the Dex-induced dsRNA line. The level of free ubiquitin also was reduced in those plants. However, the pattern of most ubiquitin conjugates were still similar between the non-induced and the induced line. This may not be surprising because Arabidopsis counts many other E3s aside the SCF (CITATION).  Mammalian d-type cyclins are highly unstable proteins, and several experiments substantiate the involvement of SCF complexes in their degradation (CITATION, CITATION). Similarly to the animal d-type cyclins, the expression of Arabidopsis cyclin D3 was found regulated by growth signals and the protein shown to be very unstable (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Interestingly, in the Rbx1-depleted plants, we found a significant higher level of cyclin D3 protein (Fig. 9) whereas cyclin D3 mRNAs accumulated at a similar level than in the Dex non-induced or control plants (data not shown). However, this protein band is detected at ∼46 kDa, whereas cyclin D3 detected in roots is ∼55 kDa (CITATION). Because the antibody was raised against the C-terminal peptide of cyclin D3 (CITATION), the 46-kDa form of the protein must represent the loss of an N-terminal fragment or could be an alternative splice form or a modified form of the protein. Whether cyclin D3 is a target of plant SCF complexes remains to be demonstrated. 
!~MM~! Unless stated otherwise, all procedures for manipulating DNA and RNA were carried out according to Refs. CITATION and CITATION.  Dex (Sigma) was dissolved in ethanol and kept at a concentration of 30 mm.  Construct pTA::GFP is described in Ref. CITATION, and construct pTA::GUS was a gift from L. Lepiniec. To construct pTA::Rbx1, we used PCR-based site-directed mutagenesis to introduce XhoI andBamH1 restriction sites upstream and downstream of the coding region of AtRbx1;1 using oligonucleotide 5′-CGGGGTACCTCGAGAATGGCGACACTAGACTCCGACGTTACCATGATTCC-3′ and oligonucleotide 5′-GACTAGTGACCATATTTCTGAAACTCCC-3′, respectively. For gene silencing, AtRbx1 antisense and sense coding sequences were separated by a spacer sequence consisting of the GFP coding sequence. Thus to construct pTA::dsRNA-Rbx1, aBamHI-SpeI GFP fragment, obtained by PCR, was first introduced in the pBluescript vector (Stratagene) resulting in plasmid pKS-GFP. AtRbx1 coding region was introduced in antisense orientation upstream from the GFP by PCR amplification using oligonucleotide 5′-ATCTAGCTCGAGTGCGGTGGTAACCAAATGAAC-3′ and oligonucleotide 5′-ACTAGTGAATTCGCGACACTAGACTCCGACGT-3′ and using theXhoI and EcoRI restriction sites. To introduce AtRbx1 coding region in sense orientation downstream the GFP, AtRbx1 sequence was PCR-amplified using oligonucleotide 5′-TGATCATCTAGAGCGACACTAGACTCCGACGT-3′ and oligonucleotide 5′-TACGTTGAGCTCACTAGTTGCGGTGGTAACCAAATGAAC-3′, digested by XbaI and SacI, and introduced intoSpeI and SacI restriction sites, resulting in construct pKS::dsRNA-Rbx1. TheXhoI-SpeI DNA fragment, encoding the dsRNA-Rbx1 construct, was subcloned into the Dex-inducible vector pTA7002 (CITATION), resulting in plasmid pTA::dsRNA-Rbx1.  To make myc-tagged ASK1 or ASK2, full-length ASK1 (At1g75950) or ASK2 (At5g42190) was PCR-amplified and fused in frame to the six copies of myc epitope into the plasmid pROK2 that contains cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35 S promoter in the binary vector pBIN19, resulting in pmyc-ASK1 and pmyc-ASK2.  TheArabidopsis plants were of the Wassilewskija (Ws) ecotype. Seeds were produced under greenhouse conditions. TransgenicArabidopsis plants were obtained byAgrobacterium-mediated transformation using the floral dip method (CITATION, CITATION). Plants were grown on soil with 12-h day and 12-h night. In vitro plants were grown onto Murashige and Skoog medium M0255 (Dushefa) supplemented with 1% sucrose (conditions used: 16-h day at 20 °C and 8-h night at 17 °C). Dex was directly added at a concentration of 1 μm to the medium or sprayed onto plants in solution at 10 μm (with 0.01% Tween 20).   AtRbx1 expression in response to the plant hormone auxin was assayed according to Ref. CITATION. For the dark to light transition,Arabidopsis plants were grown in vitro in complete darkness for 12 days, and then transferred to standard light condition and collected after 1, 3, and 8 h. For heat shock, 14-day-old Arabidopsis plants grown in vitrounder standard conditions were collected and incubated in sterile water either at 38 °C for the heat shock or at 22 °C for the control. After 90 min of treatment, plants were incubated in sterile water at 22 °C and collected 1 h later for RNA preparation. The leaf-strips experiments used to study AtRbx1 expression during re-initiation of cell division activity inArabidopsis have been described previously (CITATION).  Cotyledons were sampled 10 and 22 days after germination. Plant materials were fixed and post-fixed at 4 °C in 100 mm phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, containing 1% glutaraldehyde and 0,1% OsO4 and embedded in LR WhiteTM resin (EMS, Fort Washington, PA; catalog no. 14380). 0.5-μm sections were prepared and stained with 1% (w/v) toluidine blue for morphological analysis or Lugol's reagent to check for starch accumulation. To visualize cotyledon epidermal cells, the cotyledon of 22-day post-germination seedlings of dsRNA-2 line were first cleared for chlorophyll by rinsing with ethanol (70–95%), than re-hydrated and finally incubated for 2 h in Hoyer's solution (chloral hydrate/gum arabic/glycerol/water (100:7.5:5:30 g)). Size and shape of cotyledon epidermal cells were analyzed by Nomarski optics on an E800 (Nikon) microscope and the images recorded with Sony DXC950 camera. Cell area measurements were performed on a Macintosh computer using the public domain ImageJ program (developed at the United States National Institutes of Health and available on the Internet at rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/).  RNA gels were performed with 20 μg of total RNA/lane. The RNA extraction and RNA gel blotting procedures are described in Ref. CITATION. The AtRbx1;1 probe corresponds to the entire cDNAs clone. The histone H4 probe corresponds to the 196-bp restriction fragmentAccI-DdeI of the coding region of the geneH4A748 (CITATION). The SAUR probe corresponds to the PCR-amplified genomic fragment of the SAUR-AC1 gene (CITATION). The photosystem II W probe corresponds to cDNA clone FB025d05F (gene At4g28660). The clone used to perform HSP105/110 is described in Ref. CITATION. The integrity and the amount of RNA applied to each lane were verified by ethidium bromide staining and hybridization with a probe encoding the translation elongation factor 1-α (cDNA clone 232A19T7, gene At1g07920).  For semiquantitative RT-PCR, 2 μg of total RNA (treated with the DNase A) extracted from different Arabidopsis organs were used for cDNA synthesis using Moloney murine leukemia virus Retro Transcriptase RNase H- (Promega) according to the recommendations of the supplier. To determine the expression of the two AtRbx1genes, PCR were performed using specific primers designed in the 3′-untranslated regions of both genes. For AtRbx1;1, a transcript of 269 nucleotides was amplified using primer 5′-CAGCAGATGGCTAAAGACTCGTCA-3′ and primer 5′-ACGTCACCCAAAGCACAACCATAA-3′, and for AtRbx1;2 a transcript of 135 nucleotides was expected using primer 5′-CAGCAGATGGCTAAAGACTCGTCA-3′ and primer 5′-ATCTGCATCAAAGACATCCCAAGAGAAGA-3′. The PCR reactions were conducted using Taq polymerase (Invitrogen). To control the equal amount of matrix used for RT-PCR, a PCR, amplifying the constitutive expressed AtCul1 gene (CITATION), was performed. A transcript of 242 nucleotides was amplified using primer 5′-TGGCCTGACATGCTTCCGTGA-3′ and primer 5′-TCCAGCTTGATGCCTTGCGAGA-3′. All the PCR reactions were performed with an annealing temperature of 58 °C for 40 s. After 24 cycles of PCR, 20 μl of the reaction was run on an 2% agarose gel. The amplified DNA was visualized by ethidium bromide staining and also transferred to a nylon membrane and probed with the corresponding random primed 32P-labeled probes.  The method of extraction and visualization of the low molecular weight RNA is described in Ref. CITATION.   BamHI and EcoRI sites were introduced on the 5′ and the 3′ side of the AtRbx1;1-coding sequence using PCR-based site-directed mutagenesis. The PCR reaction was performed using oligonucleotide 5′-CGCGGATCCTTAGTGACCATATTTCTGAAACT-3′ and oligonucleotide 5′-CCGGAATTCATGGCGACTCTAGACTCCGACGTTA-3′ as the upstream and downstream primers, respectively. The BamHI-EcoRI fragment was cloned into the pGEX-2KT vector (Amersham Biosciences) for expression in the Escherichia coli strain BL21(DE3)pLysE. In the pGEX-2KT-Rbx1 construct, GST is placed in frame at the N terminus of the fusion protein. Low yield of the fusion protein was obtained after 4 h of 1 mmisopropyl-1-thio-β-d-galactopyranoside induction, but the fusion protein remained soluble and was thus purified in the native form under non-denaturing conditions on bulk glutathione-Sepharose 4B (Amersham Biosciences).  The GST pull-down assays were performed with 4 μg of purified GST or GST-Rbx1 fusion protein fixed to glutathione-Sepharose 4B resin (Amersham Biosciences) and incubated during 3 h at 4 °C with 2.5 mg of total protein extracts prepared from 2-week-oldArabidopsis seedlings. After two washing steps with PBS buffer (140 mm NaCl, 2.7 mm KCl, 10 mm Na2HPO4, 1.8 mmKH2PO4, pH 7.3), proteins were eluted with 1 ml of glutathione elution buffer (10 mm reduced glutathione in 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8). The eluted proteins were lyophilized overnight, suspended in PBS, and desalted with PlusOne mini dialysis kit (Amersham Biosciences).  The Arabidopsis plants were homogenized using pestle and mortar in extraction buffer (25 mmTris-HCl, pH 7.5, 15 mm MgCl2, 15 mm EGTA, 150 mm NaCl, 0.1% Tween 20, 1 mm dithiothreitol, and complete protease inhibitor mixture mix (Roche Molecular Biochemicals)) with PolyClar AT (Serva) and quartz and centrifuged at 20,000 × g. The protein content was determined by using the Bio-Rad protein assay kit. Samples of 15 μg of proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE gels and transferred to Immobilon-P membrane (Millipore, Bedford, MA).  A peptide containing the C-terminal sequence (CPLDNSEWEFQKYGH) of AtRbx1;1 was synthesized, linked to keyhole limpet hemocyanin carrier proteins, and used to immunize rabbits. The antiserum was diluted 1:1500 for Western blot analysis. To detect the AtCul1 protein, we used the purified rabbit polyclonal anti-Cul1 antibody (CITATION) diluted 1:4000. For protein loading control, we used a rabbit polyclonal antibody against the PSTAIRE epitope (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Inc) at a dilution of 1: 1000. To detect themyc-tagged ASK1 or ASK2 proteins, we used the mycmonoclonal mouse antibody (9E10) purchased from the Berkeley Antibody Co., at a dilution of 1:1000. To detect ubiquitin-protein conjugates, we used a commercial rabbit polyclonal antibody (catalog no. UG9510) purchased from Affinity Research Products Ltd. The antibody was used at a dilution of 1:1000. To detect cyclin D3, we used a rabbit polyclonal antiserum raised against the C-terminal peptide of the protein (CITATION) at a dilution of 1:800. The immunoreactive proteins were detected using peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-rabbit antibodies (Dianova) and the ECL Western blot analysis system from Amersham Biosciences. Determination of the specificity of the antibodies was performed by competition experiments. In this case, the antibody was incubated for 3 h at room temperature without or with 1 μm antigen peptide before application to the membranes.  1 mg of total protein extracted from wild type plants or plants expressing either the myc-tagged ASK1 or ASK2 was incubated with 100 μl of the anti-myc affinity matrix (Berkeley Antibody Co.) for 6 h at 4 °C with gentle rocking. The beads were then washed five times with the protein extraction buffer and eluted with 0.1m glycine, pH 3.0. Eluted proteins were then resolved on SDS-PAGE and used for Western blot analysis.  Budding yeast strain MCY557 (MATα/MATahis3Δ200/his3Δ200 can1R/can1R ura3/ura3 leu2/leu2 trp1/trp1 lys2/lys2 RBX1/rbx1::HIS3) (CITATION) in which theRbx1 gene was replaced with the His3 gene was kindly provided by Drs. M. Conrad and J. Conaway. For rescue of the mutant strain, Arabidopsis AtRbx1 gene was fused to the Gal1 promoter into plasmid pYES2 (Invitrogen). The MCY557 strain was transformed with either the empty pYES2 or the pYES2-AtRbx1 vectors, and Ura+ transformants were selected. Sporulated diploids were dissected. For the manipulation of these strains, we used the conditions described in Ref. CITATION.  The coding region ofAtRbx1;1 was PCR-amplified using oligonucleotide 5′-CGCGGATCCTTAGTGACCATATTTCTGAAACT-3′ and oligonucleotide 5′-CCGGAATTCATGGCGACTCTAGACTCCGACGTTA-3′ as the upstream and downstream primers, respectively, and subsequently cloned into theEcoRI and BamHI sites of pGBKT7 vector (Clontech), resulting in plasmid pGBKT7-AtRbx1. The cloning of pGBKT7-RH2b is described in Ref. CITATION. The coding region of AtCul1 (At4g02570, see Ref. CITATION) was PCR-amplified using oligonucleotide 5′-TTGTCAACGGATCCATGGAGCGCAAGACTATTGACTTG-3′ and oligonucleotide 5′-GACCACTAGTCCTAAGCCAAGTACCTAAACATG-3′ as the upstream and downstream primers, respectively, and subsequently cloned intoBamHI-SpeI of pBluescript vector (Stratagene), resulting in plasmid pKS-AtCul1. The vector was digested byEcoRI and SacI, and the excised DNA fragment was cloned into pGADT7 vector (Clontech), resulting in plasmid pGADT7-AtCul1. The coding region of AtCul4 (At5g46210, see Ref.CITATION) was PCR-amplified using oligonucleotide 5′-AGGAATTCATGTCTCTTCCTACCAAACGCTCTA-3′ and oligonucleotide 5′-CGGGATCCCCTAAGCAAGATAATTGTATATCTGA-3′ as the upstream and downstream primers, respectively, and subsequently cloned intoEcoRI and SacI sites of pGADT7 vector, resulting in plasmid pGADT7-AtCul4. The derived plasmids were sequenced to confirm the absence of errors from PCR amplification and the correct in-frame fusion with the GAL4 DNA binding and activation domains. All the pGBKT7 vectors (either empty or encoding RH2b or AtRbx1) were introduced into the yeast host haploid strain AH109, whereas all the pGADT7 vectors (either empty or encoding AtCul1 or AtCul4) were introduced into the yeast host haploid strain Y187. Y187 strain has a stronger promoter to drive lacZ expression than AH109. Interactions between the fusion proteins were assayed in the AH109/Y187 diploid strains according to the recommendations of the manufacturer (Clontech). 
