!~ABS~! GSK3 is a highly conserved kinase that negatively regulates many cellular processes by phosphorylating a variety of protein substrates. BIN2 is a GSK3-like kinase in Arabidopsis that functions as a negative regulator of brassinosteroid (BR) signaling. It was proposed that BR signals, perceived by a membrane BR receptor complex that contains the leucine (Leu)-rich repeat receptor-like kinase BRI1, inactivate BIN2 to relieve its inhibitory effect on unknown downstream BR-signaling components. Using a yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid approach, we discovered a potential BIN2 substrate that is identical to a recently identified BR-signaling protein, BES1. BES1 and its closest homolog, BZR1, which was also uncovered as a potential BR-signaling protein, display specific interactions with BIN2 in yeast. Both BES1 and BZR1 contain many copies of a conserved GSK3 phosphorylation site and can be phosphorylated by BIN2 in vitro via a novel GSK3 phosphorylation mechanism that is independent of a priming phosphorylation or a scaffold protein. Five independentbes1 alleles containing the same proline-233-Leu mutation were identified as semidominant suppressors of two differentbri1 mutations. Over-expression of the wild-typeBZR1 gene partially complementedbin2/+ mutants and resulted in aBRI1 overexpression phenotype in aBIN2 + background, whereas overexpression of a mutated BZR1 gene containing the corresponding proline-234-Leu mutation rescued a weakbri1 mutation and led to a bes1-like phenotype. Confocal microscopic analysis indicated that both BES1 and BZR1 proteins were mainly localized in the nucleus. We propose that BES1/BZR1 are two nuclear components of BR signaling that are negatively regulated by BIN2 through a phosphorylation-initiated process.
!~RES~! To understand how the cytoplasmic BIN2 kinase regulates BR signaling, we sought to identify potential BIN2 substrates using the yeast two-hybrid approach. A full-length BIN2 protein containing the hypermorphic bin2-1 mutation was used as bait to screen an Arabidopsis two-hybrid cDNA library (CITATION). Among the BIN2-interacting clones were nine overlapping cDNAs encoding a novel Arabidopsis protein of 335 amino acids (accession no. AAF79422), which was named BIS1. The longest BIS1 clone starts at the 40th codon of the full-length BIS1 gene, whereas the shortestBIS1 clone encodes the C-terminal 52 amino acids. Yeast two-hybrid analysis indicated that BIS1 interacted with the wild-type and bin2-1-mutated BIN2 proteins but failed to interact with the BRI1 cytoplasmic kinase (BRI1CK), the Gal4 DNA-binding domain, or the N-terminal portion of an Arabidopsis NADPH oxidase (91N; CITATION), a nonrelevant bait (Fig. 1A), suggesting that BIS1 specifically interacted with BIN2. Consistent with a recent result indicating that kinase activity is not required for a GSK3/substrate interaction in animals (CITATION), the kinase-dead BIN2 protein containing a Lys-69-Arg mutation was still able to interact with BIS1 (Fig. 1A).  [[FIGURE]] In addition to a stretch of Ala residues and a bipartite nuclear localization signal at its N terminus, BIS1 contains in its middle portion two S/T-rich segments with nine and three copies of a S/TxxxS/T motif (Fig. 1B) that is known to be phosphorylated by many animal GSK3 kinases (CITATION). Database searches revealed that BIS1 displays significant sequence identities with five hypothetical Arabidopsis proteins (AAL57684, NP_190644, NP_193624, AAK91411, and NP_565187), a tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) mature anther-specific protein (AAK71662), and an unknown rice protein (BAB33003; Fig. 1C). Because BIS1 and AAL57684 are almost identical in size and share 89% sequence identity, we named the latter protein BIS2 and tested whether it could also interact with BIN2 using the yeast two-hybrid assay. As indicated in Figure 1D, BIS2 did interact with the wild-type and two mutated BIN2 proteins but failed to interact with BRI1CK or the N-terminal part of the Arabidopsis NADPH oxidase. Interestingly, BIS1 and BIS2 are identical to BES1 and BZR1, respectively, the two novel BR-signaling proteins identified through independent genetic approaches (CITATION; CITATION). We therefore renamed the two potential BIN2 substrates as BES1 and BZR1. Because BES1 and BZR1 contain many copies of the consensus S/TxxxS/T GSK3 phosphorylation motif, we wanted to know whether they could be phosphorylated by BIN2 in vitro. We expressed the wild-type BIN2, BES1, and BZR1 as glutathione-S-transferase (GST) fusion proteins in E. coli. In addition, we also expressed GST, a GST-BRI1CK fusion protein, and two mutated GST-BIN2 proteins containing the bin2-1 and Lys-69-Arg mutations, respectively. After purification, GST, GST-BES1, or GST-BZR1 was incubated with BRI1CK or one of the different forms of BIN2 proteins and assayed for protein phosphorylation. As shown in Figure2, A and B, both BES1 and BZR1 were phosphorylated when incubated with the wild-type BIN2 kinase, whereas little phosphorylation was detected on either protein when incubated with the kinase-dead BIN2 or the active GST-BRI1CK fusion protein. As expected, the bin2-1-mutated BIN2 protein showed a higher kinase activity toward BES1 or BZR1 than the wild-type BIN2, whereas no phosphorylation by the wild-type GST-BIN2 was observed on the GST itself (data not shown). Thus, we concluded that BIN2 could phosphorylate both BES1 and BZR1 proteins in vitro.  [[FIGURE]] It is well known that lithium ions can specifically inhibit GSK3 kinase activity (CITATION; CITATION) by competing with Mg2+ that is critical for the GSK3 kinase activity (CITATION). If BES1 and BZR1 were substrates of BIN2, their phosphorylation by BIN2 in vitro would be inhibited by lithium treatment. We conducted similar in vitro phosphorylation assays in the presence of increasing concentrations of lithium. As indicated in Figure 3C, the phosphorylation of both BES1 and BZR1 were inhibited by lithium, supporting our conclusion that the observed phosphorylation of BES1 or BZR1 was catalyzed by the BIN2 GSK3 kinase.  [[FIGURE]] It is well established that efficient phosphorylation of a protein substrate by a GSK3 kinase occurs only after the substrate is prime-phosphorylated at the C-terminal S/T residue of the S/TxxxS/T motif by a different protein kinase or when the substrate and GSK3 are brought together by a scaffold protein (CITATION;CITATION). It is quite possible that both BES1 and BZR1 proteins were prime-phosphorylated by an E. coli kinase during their synthesis to create a GSK3 recognition site on either protein. To investigate such a possibility, we treated both GST-BES1 and GST-BZR1 fusion proteins with calf intestine alkaline phosphatase (CIP) and used the resulting dephosphorylated GST-fusion proteins for the in vitro kinase assay. As indicated in Figure 3A, BIN2 was still able to phosphorylate the CIP-treated substrates to the same levels as the non-treated substrates, suggesting that the phosphorylation of BES1 or BZR1 by BIN2 does not require a priming phosphorylation event. To further confirm this result, we generated a mutant GST-BIN2 fusion protein by mutating Arg-80 to Ala, which corresponds to Arg-96 of the human GSK3β kinase that is known to be essential for binding a primed substrate (CITATION). As shown in Figure 3A, the mutated BIN2 kinase was still capable of phosphorylating the two putative substrates as well as the wild-type BIN2 kinase did. It is also possible that the observed transphosphorylation of the two GST-tagged putative BIN2 substrates by the GST fused BIN2 kinase was mediated by GST homodimerization, a functional equivalent to a scaffold protein. To eliminate this possibility, we used a different BIN2 fusion protein tagged with a maltose-binding protein (MBP) for the in vitro kinase assay. As shown in Figure 3B, the MBP-BIN2 fusion kinase could also efficiently phosphorylate BES1 and BZR1, suggesting that BIN2 can bind directly to BES1 or BZR1 with no requirement for a scaffold protein. Such a conclusion is further strengthened by an inhibition experiment using a synthetic peptide (FRATide), which was derived from a vertebrate GSK3-binding protein (CITATION) and was shown to inhibit the phosphorylation of non-primed substrates by GSK3 kinases (CITATION; CITATION). As indicated in Figure 3C, the FRATide had little effect on the phosphorylation of BES1 or BZR1 by BIN2 at the concentrations known to be inhibitory to animal GSK3 kinases. Taken together, these in vitro biochemical data strongly suggested that BIN2 phosphorylation of BES1 and BZR1 does not require a priming phosphorylation or a scaffold protein, but involves a direct physical interaction. A recent report indicated that BES1 is a novel BR-signaling protein (CITATION). Our own genetic screens for extragenic suppressors for two different bri1 mutations provided an independent support for the involvement of BES1 in BR signaling. Five semidominant bri1 suppressors, namely m11-1,m42-5, m9-1, m7-1, andm21-1, were identified, the first two suppressingbri1-5 (Cyr-69-Tyr) and the other three suppressingbri1-9 (Ser-662-Phe). These suppressor mutants displayed similar morphological phenotypes that include elongated and wavy petioles, cup-shaped rosette leaves (Figs. 4A and 5F), and strong suppression of the dwarf phenotype of the bri1 mutations (Fig. 4B). One of the suppressors, m11-1, was mapped near the Arabidopsis bacterial artificial chromosome clone F18O14 that contains theBES1 gene, which prompted us to sequence the BES1gene from the five phenotypically similar bri1 suppressors. As indicated in Figure 4C, the five suppressor mutants contain the exact same C-T mutation in the BES1 gene, resulting in a Pro-233-Leu missense mutation, and were therefore renamed asbes1-101 to bes1-105. Interestingly, this mutation is identical to the bes1-D mutation that was recently discovered in a similar genetic screen for bri1suppressors (CITATION). The identification of six independentbes1 alleles containing the exact same mutation that suppresses three different bri1 mutations provides very strong evidence that BES1 is involved in BR signaling. Because the Pro-233-Leu mutation has no direct effect on the BIN2/BES1 interaction or the phosphorylation of BES1 by BIN2 (data not shown), we suspected that this mutation might block a downstream step of a BIN2-initiated negative regulatory process, thereby resulting in a constitutive active form of BES1. CITATION showed that the Pro-233-Leu mutation resulted in an increased protein stability and nuclear accumulation of BES1, leading to a constitutive activation of a BR-signaling pathway.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether BZR1 also participates in BR signaling, we transformed a BZR1 cDNA construct driven by theBRI1 promoter into the bin2/+ mutants and screened the resulting transgenic plants by northern-blot analysis for plants that overexpress the BZR1 gene (data not shown). If BZR1 were a bona fide BIN2 substrate, its overexpression in thebin2/+ plants would be able to, at least partially, suppress the bin2/+ phenotype. We reasoned that although a large majority of the overexpressed BZR1 proteins would be phosphorylated by the increased BIN2 activity in thebin2/+ mutants (CITATION), some of them might escape from being phosphorylated by BIN2 to remain active to mediate BR signaling. BZR1 overexpression not only rescued the short petiole and the “cabbage-like” rosette phenotypes of thebin2/+ mutants at early developmental stages (Fig. 5, A and B), but also partially suppressed the overall growth defect at later developmental stages (Fig. 5C). The curly leaf phenotype of cauline leaves and the male sterility phenotype of thebin2/+ mutants were almost completely suppressed in the transgenic BZR1 overexpressionbin2/+ plants (Fig. 5C). An effect ofBZR1 overexpression on the petiole length was also observed in the BIN2+ background. Transgenic plants overexpressing the BZR1 gene are phenotypically similar to transgenic plants that overexpress the BRI1 gene (Fig.5D). Consistent with a recent report that the Pro-234-Leu mutation in theBZR1 gene (bzr1-1D) was recovered as a semidominant mutation that was insensitive to brassinazole, a specific BR biosynthesis inhibitor (CITATION), overexpression of the mutated BZR1 (mBZR1) gene containing the Pro-234-Leu mutation driven by the BRI1 promoter not only suppressed the weak bri1-301 mutation but also rescued thebin2/+ mutant phenotype. As indicated in Figure5E, transgenic bin2/+ plants expressing the mutated BZR1 (mBZR1) gene exhibited similar phenotypes to the BRI1-BZR1 transgenic plants. Transgenicbri1-301 plants expressing the mBZR1 gene similarly showed elongated and wavy petioles, a phenotype that is quite similar to that of the bes1 mutants (Fig. 5F). These transgenic results, when combined with the recently reported genetic data (CITATION; CITATION), strongly support that BZR1 is also a positive BR-signaling protein that functions downstream of BRI1 and BIN2 in the BR-signaling pathway. To determine the subcellular localization of BES1 and BZR1 proteins, we translationally fused the entire coding region of theBES1 or BZR1 gene to a modified green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene (CITATION) and used the BRI1 promoter to drive the expression of the resultingBRI1-BES1:GFP or BRI1-BZR1:GFP fusion gene in wild-type Arabidopsis plants. The resulting transgenic plants were phenotypically similar to BRI1-BES1 or BRI1-BZR1transgenic plants in the BIN2+ background (data not shown), indicating that the GFP-tagged BES1 or BZR1 proteins are still functional. Consistent with the presence of a bipartite nuclear localization signal at their N termini, the GFP-fused BES1 and BZR1 proteins were found mainly in the nucleus (Fig.6). Thus, BES1 and BZR1 could function as BR-signaling components that transduce BR signal into the nucleus to regulate gene expression. Contrary to the two recent studies that showed BR-stimulated nuclear accumulation of BES1 and BZR1 (CITATION; CITATION), both GFP-fusion proteins were constitutively localized in the nucleus and BR treatment failed to further increase their nuclear accumulation (data not shown). This discrepancy might be attributable to the different tissues used for the BES1/BZR1 localization studies. CITATION and CITATION used dark-grown hypocotyls for their studies, whereas we examined light-grown root tips to determine BES1/BZR1 subcellular localization.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! We used the matchmaker system (BD Biosciences Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) for the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid experiments. The entire BIN2 open reading frame (ORF) containing the bin2-1 mutation was cloned into the pAS2 vector and transformed into yeast Y190 cells. The resulting yeast cells were then transformed with the plasmid DNAs of an Arabidopsis cDNA library (CITATION), and putative BIN2 interactors were screened by growth on synthetic medium lacking His but containing 25 mm 3-aminotriazole and confirmed by blue color on 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-galactoside containing medium. To determine the specificity of a two-hybrid interaction, Y190 cells containing either pACT2-BES1 or pACT2-BZR1 plasmid were mated with Y187 cells expressing the Gal4 DNA-binding domain or a Gal4 DNA-binding domain fusion protein fused with wild-type or mutated BIN2, BRI1CK, or the N-terminal portion of the Arabidopsis NADPH oxidase (91N). The resulting diploid yeast cells were assayed for the activation of the two reporter genes, HIS3 andLacZ.  bri1-5 and bri1-9 seeds were soaked in a solution of 0.3% (v/v) ethyl methanesulfonate for 14 to 18 h, rinsed 10 times with water, and planted in individual trays with approximately 500 to 1,000 plants per tray. Seeds from each of 70 trays were collected as individual pools, planted on trays, and screened for non-dwarf plants. One of the suppressors, bri1-5 m11-1 (Wassilewskija ecotype), was mapped by crossing to wild-type plants of the Columbia ecotype. Because the resulting F1 plants retained the cupped-shaped leaf phenotype, indicating that this phenotype of the suppressor is dominant, we analyzed markers in repulsion as was done for bin2 (CITATION). m11-1 was mapped roughly midway between the markers nga63 (five of 76 recombinants) and so392 (eight of 76 recombinants), which is approximately the same map position of the bacterial artificial chromosome containing the BES1 gene. The entire BIN2 ORF was cloned into the pGEX-KG vector (CITATION) or pMAL-c2 vector (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA) for generating GST or MBP fusion proteins. A 1.3-kbMunI-BamHI fragment encoding BRI1CK or the entire ORF for BES1 or BZR1 was cloned into pGEX-KG vector to generate GST fusion proteins. The QuickChange site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) was used to create mutant GST fusion proteins. Protein induction and purification were carried out according to manufacturers' recommended protocols. For CIP treatment, GST-BES1/GST-BZR1 fusion proteins, while bound on glutathione-agarose beads (Amersham Biosciences AB, Uppsala), were incubated with 20 units of CIP (New England Biolabs) at 37°C for 10 min. Purified BIN2 or BRI1CK fusion proteins were incubated with GST, GST-BES1, or GST-BZR1 fusion proteins at room temperature for 30 min in a 20-μL GSK3 reaction mixture containing 20 mm Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), 10 mm MgCl2, 5 mm dithiothreitol, 100 μm ATP, and 0.5 μL of [γ-32P]ATP (3,000 Ci mmol−1, ICN Biomedicals, Costa Mesa, CA). Increasing concentrations of FRATide (0–25 μm; Upstate Biotechnology, Lake Placid, NY) were used to determine the effect of the GSK3-binding peptide on BIN2 activity. Kinase reactions were terminated by adding 5 μL of SDS-containing sample buffer, boiled for 3 min, and separated by an 8% (w/v) SDS-PAGE. Gels were stained with Coomassie Blue, and phosphorylated protein bands were visualized by autoradiography. A full-length BZR1 cDNA was cloned into a modified pPZP212 vector (CITATION) that contains a 1.7-kb regulatory fragment of the BRI1 gene to generate the BRI1-BZR1 transgene that was used to transform thebin2-1 heterozygous mutants, the bri1-301mutants, and wild-type Arabidopsis plants. The QuickChange site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene) was used to create the mutant BZR1 gene containing the Pro-234-Leu mutation. To generate transgenic plants expressing the BRI1-BES1:GFPor BRI1-BZR1:GFP transgene, the entire BES1 or BZR1 coding region was used to replace the BRI1 ORF of thepPZP-BRI1-BRI1:GFP plasmid (CITATION), and the resulting transgene was transformed into wild-type plants.
