!~ABS~! The compartmentation of metabolism in heterotrophic plant tissues is poorly understood due to the lack of data on metabolite distributions and fluxes between subcellular organelles. The main reason for this is the lack of suitable experimental methods with which intracellular metabolism can be measured. Here, we describe a nonaqueous fractionation method that allows the subcellular distributions of metabolites in developing potato (Solanum tuberosum L. cv Desiree) tubers to be calculated. In addition, we have coupled this fractionation method to a recently described gas chromatography-mass spectrometry procedure that allows the measurement of a wide range of small metabolites. To calculate the subcellular metabolite concentrations, we have analyzed organelle volumes in growing potato tubers using electron microscopy. The relative volume distributions in tubers are very similar to the ones for source leaves. More than 60% of most sugars, sugar alcohols, organic acids, and amino acids were found in the vacuole, although the concentrations of these metabolites is often higher in the cytosol. Significant amounts of the substrates for starch biosynthesis, hexose phosphates, and ATP were found in the plastid. However, pyrophosphate was located almost exclusively in the cytosol. Calculation of the mass action ratios of sucrose synthase, UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase, phosphoglucosisomerase, and phosphoglucomutase indicate that these enzymes are close to equilibrium in developing potato tubers. However, due to the low plastidic pyrophosphate concentration, the reaction catalyzed by ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase was estimated to be far removed from equilibrium.
!~RES~! The most important requirements for a fractionation procedure to study subcellular metabolite distributions are the fast quenching and inactivation of any biological activity of the plant material and the avoidance of metabolite redistribution during the separation procedure. The nonaqueous fractionation method described here meets both of these criteria. The principle of this method is the separation of lyophilized tissue particles in a nonaqueous medium. The central assumption made is that the metabolites and proteins in a particular region of the cell aggregate together as the plant material is lyophilized. The size of the particles applied to the nonaqueous fractionation gradient ideally should be as small as possible to reduce the possibility of including material from different organelles. The use of a ball mill followed by 2 min of sonication led to an average particle size of 2 to 3 μm, as estimated by light microscopy (data not shown). ADP-Glc pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) (E.C. 2.2.7.27; CITATION) and pyrophosphatase (E.C. 3.6.1.1; CITATION) were chosen as markers for the plastid, and α-mannosidase was selected for the vacuolar compartment (E.C. 3.2.1.24; CITATION). PPi-dependent phosphofructokinase (PFP; E.C. 2.7.1.90; CITATION) and UDP-Glc pyrophosphorylase (UGPase; E.C. 2.7.7.9;CITATION, and references therein) were both used as cytosolic markers. Phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP)-carboxylase (E.C. 4.1.1.31) has often been used as a marker for the cytosol (CITATION); however, activity is low in tubers and its measurement is therefore highly error prone. Initial experiments showed that the distribution of PEP-carboxylase correlated exactly with the activities of PFP and UGPase (data not shown). Because the latter two enzymes are highly active in growing tubers and therefore can be easily measured, we decided to use them as routine markers. Figure 1 shows the marker enzyme distributions in the fractionated material. The separation of compartments is comparable with many other published examples of nonaqueous fractionation (see Fig. 1, CITATION; see Tables II and III,CITATION; see Fig. 1, CITATION; see Table III, CITATION; see Fig. 1, CITATION). The separation of the organelle fractions is not complete, but is sufficent for calculating the metabolite distributions in the three main compartments (cytosol, plastid, and vacuole) using the deconvolution approach described by CITATION. We chose to take four to five fractions instead of the six to seven taken by CITATIONto have enough material in each fraction to be able to measure the marker enzyme distribution and metabolites as accurately as possible. We used the mean percentage distribution of pyrophosphatase and AGPase activities as plastidial marker and the mean distribution of UGPase and PFP as cytosolic marker to reduce the error due to the variability of single enzyme measurements in each fraction.  [[FIGURE]] The marker enzyme distribution along the gradient is similar to that found in leaves (CITATION). The vacuolar material is found in the more dense fractions and the cytosolic material is equally distributed along the gradient, but with a relative enrichment in the higher part of the gradient. Plastidial material was mainly found in the second fraction as a narrow band at a density of approximately 1.54 g cm−3. When analyzing the distribution of citrate synthase (E.C. 4.1.3.7), a marker enzyme for the mitochondrial matrix (CITATION), an analogous distribution to the cytosolic markers in wild-type tuber was observed (data not shown). Therefore, for the following calculations, the “cytosol” represents a “cytosolic + mitochondrial” compartment. This is similar to the situation with leaf tissue, where no appropriate separation of the mitochondrial compartment has been achieved using a nonaqueous fractionation method (CITATION). In the protocol upon which this work is based (CITATION), the majority of the fractionation procedure was carried out at 4°C. Because it is difficult to reliably meet this condition while keeping the material water free during the whole experimental procedure, we decided to test whether or not metabolites were stable during fractionation at room temperature, where water-free handling can be more precisely guaranteed. To this end, metabolite levels per milligram protein of frozen tuber discs were compared with levels found after fractionation at room temperature. Even notoriously unstable metabolites such as pyruvate showed no difference between the two procedures (data not shown). Three sets of plants were used for the analysis of different metabolites. Plants were grown under the same conditions in all three experiments and the tubers used were of the same developmental stage. The first set was used to measure phosphorylated intermediates and nucleotides (TableI). GC-MS measurements were performed with the second set (Table II) and PPi was determined in the third set of plants (Table I). This experimental setup was necessary because it was impossible to complete all measurements with the same set of plants, given the amount of material required for each analysis procedure.  Subcellular distributions and concentrations of phosphorylated intermediates in potato tubers Subcellular distribution of metabolites in potato tubers Two ways of calculating subcellular metabolite distributions from nonaqueous fractionation data have been used: a two-compartment analysis as described by CITATION, and a three-compartment analysis; for example, the one described by CITATION. The first method is based on correlation curves between marker enzymes and metabolite distribution in the different fractions, and makes the assumption that the metabolite studied is found exclusively in two compartments. The second assumes a distribution between three compartments. Because most of the metabolites we have analyzed are predicted to be distributed between three compartments, the second analysis was preferred, and the calculations of the subcellular distributions of metabolites were carried out as described by CITATION. This calculation essentially follows a deconvolution approach. It is based on the assumption that the metabolites are confined to the plastidial, cytosolic, and vacuolar compartment as designated by the corresponding marker enzymes. The evaluation is done by a computer program testing all possible cases for the distribution of a certain metabolite between the three compartments at intervals of 1%; for example: (a) plastid 100%, cytosol 0%, and vacuole 0%; (b) plastid 99%, cytosol 1%, and vacuole 0%; and (c) plastid 99%, cytosol 0%, and vacuole 1%. There are 5,151 possibilities for the distribution of a metabolite between the three compartments, and this procedure calculates which of the possibilities agrees most closely with the experimental results. The data represent the mean values based upon three to four independent fractionations each with different tuber samples. As already observed for leaf tissue, this method gives highly reproducible results for metabolites almost exclusively located in one compartment (e.g. malic acid or hexoses that are predominantly located in the vacuole). A higher variation is found when metabolites are located in more than one organelle. The variability is greatest when the proportion found in a particular compartment is low (less than 20% of the total). Given this variability, we estimate that the limit of detection of a compound in a particular organelle is around 5% of the total amount in the tissue. A GC-MS based method that allows the analysis of a large number of metabolites in parallel was developed recently in our laboratory (CITATION). This method was combined with the nonaqueous fractionation technique to study metabolite compartmentation. To calculate their subcellular distributions, detectable amounts of the compounds in each fraction are needed. Therefore, the total number of compounds that can be analyzed is reduced in comparison to the high number that can be identified in a tuber total extract. Due to the large amount of data generated, hierarchical cluster analysis was used to group metabolites that showed a similar fractionation pattern along the gradient. The mean fractionation pattern (percentage distribution in the fractions) of all the compounds belonging to one cluster was used to calculate the subcellular distribution of that cluster in a particular gradient. Two main clusters, A and B, of seven and 13 metabolites, respectively, were identified (Fig.2, Table II). The sd from the mean between different compounds belonging to one cluster was lower than 10% in most fractions. Only fractions that contained less than 10% of the total content in the gradient had higher deviations (TableIII). Apart from the two main clusters A and B, two further small clusters were repeatedly detected. Cluster C contained Glc-6-P and Fru-6- and Cluster D contained the amino acids Glu and Asp (Fig. 2, Table II). The remaining compounds did not have distributions similar enough to be grouped within separate clusters.  [[FIGURE]] Distribution of metabolites belonging to cluster A in the different fractions of one gradient To determine the volumes of the subcellular compartments, over 60 electron micrographs were taken from representative regions of the potato tissue. From these photographs, the relative volumes (percent of total) were calculated according to the principle ofCITATION. For the calculation of the mitochondrial volume, the relative volume of the mitochondria as percentage of the cytosol in the high magnification photographs was multiplied by the mean volume of the cytosol determined in the low magnification photographs. The mean volume (percent of total) of the different compartments of potato tuber tissue is shown in Figure 3. The histograms of volume distributions show the range of volumes obtained for each compartment. The relative volumes (percent of total) were converted to absolute volumes per unit of mass by taking into account that under our growth conditions the specific density of the tubers was 1.16 g fresh weight mL−1.  [[FIGURE]] Most compartments show a gaussian distribution with a clear single maximum. The values for the cytosol show a broad bimodal distribution as would be expected from two different types of tissue: a small number of meristematic cells with a higher percentage, and a high number of differentiated storage cells with a lower percentage of cytosol. It is unfortunate that with this method it is not possible to separate the meristematic from storage cells. In potato tuber, the major compartment was the vacuole, with 67% of the cell volume (0.58 mL g fresh weight−1), followed by the plastid (15%, 0.13 mL g fresh weight−1) and cytosol (12%, 0.1 mL g fresh weight−1), whereas other compartments had a much smaller volume (Fig. 3). The estimation of the actual aqueous volume of amyloplasts is problematic because the starch granule fills most of the plastid volume in potato tubers. Little is known about the in vivo water content of starch granules, the characteristics of the granule water, and the diffusion capacity of metabolites through the starch granule (CITATION). Only the extreme situations can be estimated; the actual in vivo situation will lie somewhere between these two estimates. If we assume that metabolites can diffuse freely through the starch granule, and that plastids occupy about 15% of the cell volume, the absolute volume would be 0.127 mL g fresh weight−1. If it is assumed that metabolites are restricted to the free diffusible water space, which does not seem to be higher than 10% of the total amyloplast volume (CITATION), the volume estimations in this case would be 0.013 mL g fresh weight−1. Tables I and II show the percentage distribution of metabolites between different subcellular compartments. These data, together with measurements of the total tissue contents and the calculation of the subcellular volumes described in the previous section, were used to estimate the metabolite concentrations in the amyloplast, cytosol, and vacuole (Tables I and IV). Because we did not achieve a separation between the mitochondria and the cytosol, the volume of the cytosolic compartment used for the calculations was 0.11 mL g fresh weight−1.  Estimation of subcellular metabolite concentrations in developing potato tubers The calculations of plastidial concentrations in Tables I and IV were done assuming unrestricted diffusion of metabolites in the starch granule. However, in “Results” and “Discussion,” the plastidial concentrations given in parentheses represent the values calculated assuming the case in which diffusion across the granule is restricted. More than one-half of the Glc-6-P and Fru-6-P was located within the plastid (Table I). These results were confirmed in the second experiment (Table II). From these values, the estimated concentrations were: 1 mm (10 mm) for Glc-6-P in the plastid, 0.34 mm for Glc-6-P in the cytosol, 0.26 mm (2.6 mm) for Fru-6-P in the plastid, and 0.17 mm for Fru-6-P in the cytosol (Table I). The distribution of Glc-1-P along the gradient was unexpected. In general, Glc-1-P was present at a higher percentage than the other hexose phosphates in fraction 1 and a lower percentage in fractions 3 and 4; therefore, up to 34% correlated with the vacuolar marker (TableI). This particularly high correlation with the vacuole was also found in other experiments (data not shown). The glycolytic intermediates 3-P-glycerate, PEP, and pyruvate were located mainly in the plastid (Table I). The concentration of 3-P-glycerate was estimated to be 0.30 mm in the cytosol and 0.46 mm (4.6 mm) within the plastid (TableI). These concentrations are lower than those in potato leaves.CITATION estimated a concentration of 2 mmfor 3-P-glycerate in the stroma and 1.7 mm for 3-P-glycerate in the cytosol. The majority of the uridine nucleotides were found in the cytosol (Table I), at similar levels to those found in leaves (CITATION). More than 70% of the UTP and 60% of the UDP were found in the cytosol. This leads to estimated cytosolic concentrations for UTP of 0.40 mm and for UDP of 0.058 mm, which are very similar to the concentrations calculated for leaf tissue (CITATION). However, we found an unexpected subcellular distribution for UDP-Glc, where only 42% was located in the cytosol, with an estimated concentration of 0.83 mm (Table I) and a significant amount found in the plastid, in disagreement with the distribution found in leaf tissue where the location was almost exclusively cytosolic (CITATION). On the contrary, adenine nucleotides were found mainly associated with the plastidial marker (Table I). The estimated concentrations for ATP in the plastid and in the cytosol were 0.49 (4.9 mm) and 0.2 mm, respectively, and for ADP 0.24 mm (2.4 mm) and 0.018 mm (Table I), respectively. The ADP-Glc content in potato tubers is very low; in our experiment, we measured 3.6 ± 0.1 nmol g fresh weight−1, which is in agreement with previous studies (CITATION;CITATION). We could only detect ADP-Glc in the fraction enriched for amyloplasts (data not shown) and therefore were not able to calculate the exact metabolite distribution. However, this indicates that in potato tubers, ADP-Glc is probably exclusively located in the plastid with a concentration of approximately 28 μm. As shown in Figure 1, alkaline pyrophosphatase activity appeared to correlate with AGPase activity and therefore was exclusively located in the plastid. On the other hand, PPi was mainly located in the cytosol, with an estimated concentration of about 23 μm(Table I). Although this concentration is lower than that estimated for leaves, the distributions of soluble inorganic pyrophosphatase activity and PPi between the cytosolic and plastidial compartments are identical to the distribution in green tissues (CITATION). Most of the sugars were found in the vacuole. About 77% of both Suc and Glc were located in this compartment (Table II), giving an estimated concentration of 35 mm for Suc and 32 mm for Glc (Table IV). Seventeen percent of Suc was found to be located in the cytosol (Table II). Other experiments that we have performed (E.M. Farré and L. Willmitzer, unpublished data) corroborate this finding. Therefore, we estimated that the cytosolic concentration of Suc is around 40 mm (Table IV). In the case of Glc, 8.7% was found in the plastid (Table II), with an estimated concentration of about 16 mm (160 mm; Table IV). In the case of Fru, 84% was found in the vacuole and 15% in the plastid, whereas the amount of Fru present in the cytosol was below the detection limit (Table II). Most amino acids, organic acids, and sugar alcohols were grouped in cluster A and cluster B and were mainly located in the vacuole (Table II). When the estimates of subcellular volumes were taken into consideration, all compounds in cluster A had higher vacuolar than cytosolic concentrations and compounds in cluster B had similar concentrations in the vacuole and the cytosol (Table IV). A high percentage of most amino acids were found associated with the vacuole. The exceptions were Asp and Glu (Cluster D), which were mainly located in the plastid and the cytosol. This distribution is similar to that found for leaves, where a high percentage of these two amino acids was found in the stroma (CITATION). A substantial amount of Asn was also associated with the plastidial markers. The amino acids Pro, Leu, and iso-Leu displayed a higher amount that appeared correlated with the cytosolic compartment. From data on the subcellular distributions of sugars, hexose phosphates, nucleotides, and PPi shown in Tables I and IV, it is possible to calculate the mass action ratios of different cytosolic and plastidial reactions involved in carbon metabolism. These ratios are independent of the actual volume of a particular compartment. For the calculation of the mass action ratio of the AGPase, we made the assumption that ADP-Glc is exclusively located in the amyloplast because we could only detect it in those fractions enriched for plastidial markers. The mass action ratios of phosphoglucoisomerase, phosphoglucomutase, and UGPase are close to their K eq, whereas the mass action ratio of the AGPase reaction is 500 times lower than the Keq (TableV).  Calculation of the molar mass action ratio of different reactions in the cytosol and plastid of potato tubers The level of Fru in the cytosol is below the limit of detection of our method, which we have estimated to be 5% of the total content of a compound. In Table V, we calculated the mass action ratio of Suc synthase assuming 5% of Fru is located in the cytosol, which corresponds to a cytosolic concentration of 0.5 mm.
!~MM~! Potato (Solanum tuberosum L. cv Desiree) was supplied by Saatzucht Lange AG (Bad Schwartau, Germany). Plants were grown from stem cuttings. The plants used for biochemical analysis were raised in the greenhouse in 2-L pots under a 16-h-light, 8-h-dark regime at 22°C with supplementary light to ensure a minimum of 250 μmol photons m−2 s−1; plants were 10 weeks old and completely green when the tubers were harvested. Tubers (20–40 g fresh weight) were still growing when harvested. This developmental stage of tubers (cv Desiree) is commonly used for the study of growing tuber metabolism and comparison of metabolite data between tubers harvested from plants between 8 and 12 weeks old is readily possible (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To sample tuber material, a cylinder (12-mm diameter) was cut perpendicular to the stolon-apex axis in the middle of the tuber (CITATION). For biochemical analysis, tuber slices 1 mm thick were cut from the cylinder and immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C until use. All enzymes were purchased from Boehringer Mannheim (Mannheim, Germany), with the exception of PFP from Propionibacterium freudenreichii shermanii, which was purchased from Sigma (Deisenhofen, Germany). All chemicals were obtained from either Sigma or Merck (Darmstadt, Germany). The method described here was originally based upon the procedure of CITATION for the analysis of leaf subcellular metabolism. The material (approximately 4 g fresh weight per gradient) was homogenized using a ball mill precooled with liquid nitrogen. The frozen powder was resuspended in liquid nitrogen, placed in a plastic beaker, and then dried at 4 Pa for 48 h in a lyophilizer, which had been precooled to −30°C. The temperature in the lyophilizer was left to rise to room temperature after the vacuum had been reached. The lyophilizer was ventilated with dry N2 gas and the plastic beakers were quickly closed, placed in boxes containing silica gel, and stored in plastic bags at −20°C. The dry tuber powder in the plastic beaker was resuspended in 20 mL of a tetrachlorethylene-heptane mixture (66:34 [v/v]; density = 1.3 g cm −3; the solvents were dried and stored over molecule sieve beads, all from Merck) and ultrasonicated for a total of 120 s, with 10-s pulses and 10-s breaks (Bandolin Sonoplus HD 200, MS 73/D, Bandolin, Berlin). To prevent overheating, the plastic beaker was placed on ice and closed with a foam seal. The suspension was then poured through a polyester monolen sieve with a pore size <30 μm, diluted 3-fold with heptane, and centrifuged for 10 min at 2,200g (CS 6KR, Beckmann, Munich). The clear supernatant was discarded and the sediment was resuspended in 3 mL of a tetrachlorethylene-heptane mixture (1.3 g cm−3). Two 200-μL aliquots were withdrawn (for determination of enzyme activity and metabolites in the unfractionated material), and the remaining material was transferred to a 30-mL Teflon centrifuge tube (Nalge Nunc Int., Hereford, UK). The gradient was underlayed using an 11-cm-long needle. A linear gradient (20 mL between 1.43 and 1.62 g cm−3) was made using a gradient former connected to a peristaltic pump (Econo Pump, Bio-Rad, Munich) followed by a 5-mL cushion of tetrachlorethylene (1.62 g cm−3). The gradients were centrifuged for 1 h at 10,000g at 7°C (swing-out rotor AS4.13, ultracentrifuge Centrikon T-124, Kendro, Berlin). The centrifuge tube contents were removed from the bottom in four or five fractions (1–2 mL for fraction 2 and 2–5 mL for other fractions) using the needle. Each of these fractions was divided into two unequal portions, consisting of one-third of the volume for assay of marker enzymes and two-thirds of the volume for assay of metabolites. The divided portions and the two aliquots taken from the material applied to the gradient were all diluted 3-fold with heptane and centrifuged for 10 min at 2,200g (Beckmann CS 6KR). After discarding the supernatant, the samples were dried in a desiccator containing a silica gel drying agent for 12 h, and then extracted for assay of enzymes or metabolites. Extracts were prepared as described by CITATION with the exception that bovine serum albumin was not added to the extraction buffer. Enzymes were assayed according to the following references: ADP-Glc-pyrophosphorylase (AGPase; E.C. 2.2.7.27) activity was measured as described by CITATION; inorganic alkaline pyrophosphatase (E.C.3.6.11) was measured using the assay described by CITATION except that the reaction buffer contained 20 mm MgCl2, and termination and detection of phosphate was carried out as described byCITATION; UGPase (E.C. 2.7.7.9) was measured as described by CITATION; PFP (E.C. 2.7.1.90) was assayed as described by CITATION; α-mannosidase (E.C. 3.2.1.24) was determined as detailed by CITATION with the exception that the reaction was stopped with 1 m NaCO3; and citrate synthase (E.C. 4.1.3.7) was measured as described by CITATION. Total protein was determined by the method of CITATION. TCA extracts were prepared as described by CITATION. Carbohydrates were measured as detailed by CITATION and hexose phosphates, 3-P-glycerate, PEP, and pyruvate were determined in the extracts photometrically as described by CITATION. PPi was measured according to CITATION. Pseudoextracts (without tissue) were also prepared to confirm the absence of significant PPi contamination in all the solutions and vessels used in the procedure. Nucleotides were measured in the same TCA extracts using an HPLC method (CITATION). The reliability of the TCA extraction and assay protocol has been confirmed previously (e.g. CITATION;CITATION; CITATION). GC-MS analysis was carried out with methanol extracts as described byCITATION. A three-compartment calculation program (Bestfit) that has been described in detail by CITATION was used to evaluate the subcellular metabolite distribution. The results in Tables I and IIrepresent the means ± se of measurements on four (Table I) or three (Table II) different fractionations each from a different tuber sample. Hierarchical cluster analysis was performed with the software Pirouette 2.6 (Infometrix, Woodinville, WA). The complete linkage method was then used in the assignment of clusters. The hierarchical cluster analysis uses the Euclidean distance matrix. Tuber tissue was fixed in 2% (w/v) glutaraldehyde (in phosphate buffer, pH 7.4) for 1 h, washed five times in phosphate buffer, and then contrasted in 2% (w/v) osmium tetraoxide (OsO4) for 1 h and in 1:10 diluted osmium solution overnight. The samples were washed five times in double distilled water and dehydrated by subsequent incubation in higher concentrations of acetone (30%, 50%, 70%, 90%, and 100% [w/v]). The samples were then incubated in an acetone/Spurr mix (CITATION) (increasing concentrations of Spurr 33%, 66%, and 100% [w/v] for 1 h per concentration, and overnight at 100% [w/v]). The samples were then placed in Spurr and dried for a week at 60°C. Sample blocks were then trimmed with a razor and sectioned in an ultra-microtome (Leica Microsystems, Wetz-ler, Germany) with a glass knife. The slices (50–80 nm) were placed onto copper grids and dried. Grids were then stained by incubation in uranil-acetate solution for 6 min and 6 min in lead-citrate solution. The samples were visualized with a transmission electron microscope (Carl Zeiss, Göttingen, Germany). Electron micrographs of thin sections from fixed material were used for the evaluation of subcelluar volumes according the principle of CITATION: “the areal density of profiles on sections is an unbiased estimate of the volume density of structures” (CITATION; CITATION). Over 60 electron micrographs were taken from material from four independent fixation procedures and from eight different tubers. Low magnification pictures (×700) in which several cells could be visualized were preferentially used to determine the volumes of most organelles. High magnification pictures (>1,000×) were used to determine the volumes of mitochondria that were not always visible in the low magnification pictures. The relative volumes (percent of total) were converted to absolute volumes per unit of mass by taking into account that under our growth conditions a tuber slice of 130 mg fresh weight contained 1 mg protein and had a volume of 113 μL (0.86 mL g fresh weight−1).
