!~ABS~! Boron deficiency hampers the productivity of 132 crops in more than 80 countries (CITATION) . Boron is essential in higher plants primarily for maintaining the integrity of cell walls (CITATION) and is also beneficial and might be essential in animals (CITATION) and in yeast (CITATION) . Understanding the molecular mechanism(s) of boron transport is crucial for alleviating boron deficiency. Here we describe the molecular identification of boron transporters in biological systems. The Arabidopsis thaliana mutant bor1-1 is sensitive to boron deficiency (CITATION) . Uptake studies indicated that xylem loading is the key step for boron accumulation in shoots with a low external boron supply and that the bor1-1 mutant is defective in this process. Positional cloning identified BOR1 as a membrane protein with homology to bicarbonate transporters in animals. Moreover, a fusion protein of BOR1 and green fluorescent protein (GFP) localized to the plasma membrane in transformed cells. The promoter of BOR1 drove GFP expression in root pericycle cells. When expressed in yeast, BOR1 decreased boron concentrations in cells. We show here that BOR1 is an efflux-type boron transporter for xylem loading and is essential for protecting shoots from boron deficiency.
!~RES~! The mechanism of boron membrane transport in plants has long been controversial: the most widely accepted theory was that of a passive transport of boric acid, whereas recent physiological studies indicated the involvement of active transport (CITATION) . The Arabidopsis thaliana mutant bor1-1 requires high levels of boron for normal growth (CITATION) . Growth impairment of bor1-1 mutant plants under low boron supply is more evident in leaves than in roots (CITATION) and the mutation carried by bor1-1 mutant plants is suggested to affect the root-to-shoot transport of boron in plants, rather than the structural function of boron in cell walls (CITATION) . Here we describe the identification of BOR1 as a boron transporter essential for alleviating boron deficiency. The concentration of boron in rosette leaves of wild-type and bor1-1 mutant plants increased with the concentration of boric acid in the nutrient solution (Fig. 1a). Boron concentrations in the rosette leaves of wild-type Col-0 plants were always higher than those in the bor1-1 plants under the nutrient conditions tested, indicating that bor1-1 plants have a reduced capacity to accumulate boron in leaves over a wide range of external boron concentrations. [[FIGURE]] The pathway of nutrient transport from the root surface to the shoot includes at least two transmembrane transport events: import into epidermal or cortex cells and export from pericycle or xylem parenchyma cells into the stelar apoplasm (xylem loading). As has been shown for phosphate (CITATION) and potassium (CITATION) , xylem loading is a key step for nutrient accumulation in the shoots. The transport events of boron in Arabidopsis plants were studied with 10B-enriched boron as a tracer. We examined concentrations of tracer boron in root cell saps, representing the water-soluble fraction in roots (CITATION) , and in xylem exudates after tracer boron had been supplied for 24 h. The concentration of tracer boron in root cell saps increased in proportion to tracer boron concentration in the medium in both genotypes (Fig. 1b), suggesting that uptake into roots occurs mainly by passive transport. The concentration of tracer boron in xylem exudates of the bor1-1 plants also followed a linear concentration dependence, whereas in the wild-type plants a combination of saturable and linear concentration dependence was observed (Fig. 1c). When the tracer boron supply was 30 µM or lower, tracer boron concentrations in xylem exudates of wild-type plants were significantly higher than those in the medium, the root cell sap of the wild type plants and the xylem exudate of bor1-1 plants. These results indicate that xylem loading is the key step for boron accumulation in shoots at low external boron supply and that BOR1 is an essential component in this process. The BOR1 locus is located on the lower arm of chromosome 2 (ref. 7). Analysis of 1,038 F2 plants delimited BOR1 to a 15.1-kilobase (kb) region between newly generated molecular markers at positions 19,383 kb and 19,399 kb. Nucleotide sequences of this region in the genome of bor1-1 and bor1-2 mutants (ethylmethane sulphonate mutants) (CITATION) revealed that each mutant contains a different single base substitution in the hypothetical open reading frame (ORF) At2g47160 (Fig. 2a), each causing a different amino-acid substitution in the predicted protein. A genomic DNA fragment containing wild-type At2g47160 was then introduced into the bor1-1 mutant and several independent transgenic plants were generated. Growth of the transgenic bor1-1 plants was indistinguishable from that of the Col-0 wild type on low-boron medium. In contrast, growth of the non-transgenic bor1-1 plants was inhibited on the same medium (Fig. 2b), establishing that At2g47160 corresponds to the BOR1 gene. [[FIGURE]] The BOR1 ORF (Genbank accession no. AB073713) was determined by sequencing a corresponding cDNA, RZ119b07, obtained from Kazusa DNA Research Institute (Chiba, Japan). Comparison between the cDNA and genomic sequences revealed that BOR1 has 12 exons (Fig. 2a). On the basis of the nucleotide sequence, BOR1 was predicted to encode a polypeptide of 704 amino acids containing 10 putative transmembrane domains (Fig. 2c). The mutations found in the bor1-1 and bor1-2 alleles were located within the second transmembrane domain. Database searches revealed that there are six similar predicted proteins to BOR1 in Arabidopsis: At1g15460, At1g74810, At3g06450, At3g62270, At4g32510 and At5g25430. The amino acid sequences of the predicted proteins were 52–90% identical to BOR1 (Fig. 2d). BOR1 also exhibited strong similarity to expressed sequence tag (EST) clones from diverse plant species, including both angiosperms (monocots and dicots) and gymnosperms (Fig. 2d), indicating that BOR1 belongs to a group of highly conserved membrane proteins in plants. BOR1 is also similar to bicarbonate transporters of animal origins, including Cl-/HCO3- exchangers (anion exchangers), Na+–HCO3- co-transporters and Na+-driven Cl-/HCO3- exchangers (CITATION) (Fig. 2d and Supplementary Fig. 1). BOR1 and bicarbonate transporters of animals also show significant similarity to a membrane protein of yeast, YNL275w (Fig. 2c and Supplementary Fig. 1). The amino acid sequence of YNL275w was 27% identical to BOR1 in a 596-amino-acid overlap by FASTA analysis (CITATION) . Subcellular fractionation and immunofluorescence labelling experiments indicated that YNL275w was localized to the plasma membrane, and a binding assay suggested that HCO3-, I-, Br-, NO3- and Cl- were the potential substrates (CITATION) . Both mutations in bor1-1 and bor1-2 alleles alter amino-acid residues that are highly conserved among the similar proteins in plants, yeast and animals (Fig. 2d). To investigate the subcellular localization of BOR1, a translational fusion between BOR1 and green fluorescent protein (GFP) (CITATION) was delivered into tobacco leaf cells by particle bombardment. Cells expressing the BOR1–GFP fusion showed a GFP signal only at the periphery of the cell (Fig. 3a), whereas in cells expressing free GFP the signal was also observed in a region around the nucleus and in the cytosol as evidenced by cytoplasmic strands (Fig. 3b). Together with the presence of transmembrane domains, these results suggest that BOR1 is a plasma-membrane-localized protein. [[FIGURE]] Cell-type specificity of BOR1 expression was investigated with the T2 generation of transgenic Arabidopsis plants carrying the ORF for GFP under the control of the BOR1 promoter region (2.9 kb). The GFP fluorescence signal was observed in roots (Fig. 3c) and was localized in the pericycle, located at the outmost layer of the stele and the inside of the endodermis (Fig. 3d). Pericycle-specific expression was observed in five independent transgenic lines analysed. The GFP fluorescence signal could not be clearly observed in shoots although the transcripts of BOR1 were detected from both shoots and roots of wild-type plants by polymerase chain reaction with reverse transcription (Supplementary Fig. 2). The Arabidopsis stelar K+ outward rectifying channel (SKOR) is responsible for xylem loading of K+ and is also expressed in the root pericycle (CITATION) . Pericycle-specific expression of the BOR1 promoter supports the hypothesis that BOR1 is involved in the xylem loading of boron. We examined the boron transport activity of BOR1 in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae by first comparing boron concentrations between a S. cerevisiae mutant carrying an insertion mutation in YNL275w and the corresponding wild-type strain (Fig. 4a). Cells were first grown to mid-exponential phase in liquid medium without boron supplementation and then incubated for 60 min in the presence of 500 µM boric acid, followed by measurements of soluble and bound boron concentrations. Surprisingly, concentrations of soluble boron were about 13-fold higher in the ynl275w mutant than in the wild type, whereas bound boron concentrations were similar between the two strains. We then expressed the BOR1 gene under control of the GAL1 promoter in the ynl275w cells. The soluble boron concentrations in the cells expressing the BOR1 were about one-third those in the cells carrying the empty vector, whereas the bound boron concentrations were similar between these two yeast lines (Fig. 4a). At physiological pH, boron exists mainly as undissociated boric acid (pKa = 9.25). Considering the relatively high permeability of the plasma membrane for boric acid (CITATION) , which allows the passive diffusion of boric acid into cells, these results suggest that BOR1 and YNL275w have boron-efflux transport activity. Although both BOR1 and YNL275w are similar to bicarbonate transporters on a sequence basis (Fig. 2d), the boron transport activity of BOR1, in contrast to YNL275w, was little affected by NaHCO3 in the uptake solution (Fig. 4b). [[FIGURE]] The present results establish that BOR1 is a boron transporter mediating boron export from pericycle cells into the root stelar apoplasm against a concentration gradient. Consequently, BOR1 increases the concentrations of boron in xylem sap and shoot organs, thereby acting to protect the shoot from boron deficiency. To our knowledge, BOR1 and YNL275w represent the first identification of boron transporters in biological systems and provide a molecular basis for active boron transport of boron in higher plants and yeast.
!~MM~! 1,038 F2 plants from the bor1-1 mutant (Col-0 background) and Ler crosses (CITATION) were scored for the Bor1- phenotype (growth retardation at 3 µM boric acid) and molecular markers including cleaved amplified polymorphic sequences markers at positions 19,383 kb and 19,399 kb on chromosome 2 (see Supplementary Information 3). For complementation in vivo, a genomic SalI–BglII fragment spanning from 1,158 base pairs (bp) upstream of the BOR1 initiation codon to 418 bp downstream of the stop codon was cloned into pBI101.1 (ref. 24) (replacing the HindIII–EcoRI fragment). Using Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1 RifR (pGV2260) (CITATION) the construct was introduced into Arabidopsis bor1-1 mutant plants (CITATION) . Growth of the resulting kanamycin-resistant T2 transgenic plants homozygous for the T-DNA insertion were tested on solid MGRL medium (CITATION) containing 2% (w/v) sucrose and 0.2% (w/v) Gellan gum (Wako Pure Chemicals) with 3 µM boric acid. Seeds were sown on black cotton cloth fixed on the top of 50-ml plastic tubes. During the first 2 weeks of cultivation, the MGRL medium (pH 5.8, 18.9 mOsm) (CITATION) were replenished every 2–3 days and thereafter, the solutions were exchanged every 4–5 days. Plants grown for 23 or 24 days with 30 µM boric acid of natural abundance (10B:11B = 20:80) were transferred to medium containing 10B-enriched boric acid (10B:11B = 96:4). After 24 h of application of tracer boric acid, shoots were cut off at their hypocotyls, xylem exudates were collected from the cut ends of the roots for 2 h and roots were harvested and frozen. Frozen samples were thawed, transferred to 1.5-ml centrifugal filter tubes (pore size 0.2 µm, Ultrafree-MC; Millipore) and centrifuged at 10,000g at 4 °C for 10 min. Filtered solutions were taken as root cell saps. BOR1–sGFP fusion constructs were generated as described in the Supplementary Information 4. The resulting plasmid (pTF458) carried a BOR1–GFP fusion gene under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S RNA promoter. Gold particles (1 µm diameter) were coated with pTF458 or pTH2 (ref. 20), carrying CaMV 35S RNA-promoter–GFP, and bombarded into tobacco (Nicotiana tobacum cv. Xanthi sx) leaf cells with a helium-gas-driven particle accelerator (PDS-1000/He; Bio-Rad) operated at a pressure of 1,100 lb in-2 (7.6 MPa) and a chamber vacuum of 26 inches of mercury. Leaves were kept at 25 °C in darkness for 24 h and fluorescence was observed by fluorescence microscopy (BX-FLA; Olympus) equipped with a chilled, colour, charge-coupled device camera (model 3204 C; Olympus). Procedures for the construction of the BOR1 promoter–GFP fusion are described in Supplementary Information 5. Transformation of Arabidopsis Col-0 was performed as described above. Transgenic plants were grown on solid MGRL medium (CITATION) containing 2% (w/v) sucrose and 1.5% (w/v) Gellan gum with 3 µM boric acid. Imaging of GFP in whole plants was performed with a Fluoroimager 595 and ImageQuant software (Molecular Dynamics). Plants were scanned with an Ar laser (488 nm) and the green fluorescence of GFP (515–545 nm) and autofluorescence of chlorophyll (610 nm) were measured. Laser scanning confocal microscopy of GFP expression in the roots treated with 10 µg ml-1 propidium iodide (Molecular Probes) was performed with a Zeiss LSM 510. Dual-channel imaging was performed with a 488-nm excitation wavelength and emission windows of 505–530 nm for GFP and 585 nm for propidium iodide. Images were merged using Adobe Photoshop 4.0J software (Adobe Systems). Strains of S. cerevisiae used in this study were BY4741 (MATa his2DO met15DO ura3DO) and 1169. Strain 1169 was constructed from BY4741 by insertional mutagenesis of the YNL275w ORF (CITATION) . BY4741 and 1169 cells were transformed with either pYES2 (Invitrogen) or pYES2 with a BOR1 cDNA insert. Unless otherwise mentioned, yeast cells were grown in medium containing constituents of the synthetic minimal medium (CITATION) supplemented with 2% glucose, 20 mg l-1 His, 30 mg l-1 Leu and 20 mg l-1 Met. For induction of the GAL1 promoter, glucose was replaced with galactose in the medium. For measurements of boron concentration, cells at mid-exponential phase were harvested and transferred to the same medium containing 500 µM boric acid and 50 mM MES adjusted to pH 5.5 with Tris. For the NaHCO3 study, the medium was adjusted to pH 7 with Tris. Cells were incubated at 30 °C with shaking for 60 min, harvested by centrifugation and washed twice with deionized water (MilliQ; Millipore) then boiled for 30 min with deionized water. All centrifugation steps were performed at 3,000g for 2 min at 4 °C. Clarified supernatants and pellets were taken separately for determination of intracellular free and bound boron, respectively. In media with glucose (GAL1 promoter inactive), both soluble and bound boron concentrations were similar between yeast lines (data not shown). Determination of boron concentration by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry were performed as described previously (CITATION) with some modifications (see Supplementary Information 6). Tracer boron concentrations were calculated as described previously (CITATION) .
