!~ABS~!  Smallubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) is a member of the superfamily of ubiquitin-like polypeptides that become covalently attached to various intracellular target proteins as a way to alter their function, location, and/or half-life. Here we show that the SUMO conjugation system operates in plants through a characterization of theArabidopsis SUMO pathway. An eight-gene family encoding the SUMO tag was discovered as were genes encoding the various enzymes required for SUMO processing, ligation, and release. A diverse array of conjugates could be detected, some of which appear to be SUMO isoform-specific. The levels of SUMO1 and -2 conjugates but not SUMO3 conjugates increased substantially following exposure of seedlings to stress conditions, including heat shock, H2O2, ethanol, and the amino acid analog canavanine. The heat-induced accumulation could be detected within 2 min from the start of a temperature upshift, suggesting that SUMO1/2 conjugation is one of the early plant responses to heat stress. Overexpression of SUMO2 enhanced both the steady state levels of SUMO2 conjugates under normal growth conditions and the subsequent heat shock-induced accumulation. This accumulation was dampened in an Arabidopsis line engineered for increased thermotolerance by overexpressing the cytosolic isoform of the HSP70 chaperonin. Taken together, the SUMO conjugation system appears to be a complex and functionally heterogeneous pathway for protein modification in plants with initial data indicating that one important function may be in stress protection and/or repair. 
!~RES~! Previous studies by us and others (CITATION, CITATION) indicated that plants express SUMOs and likely much of the associated conjugation/deconjugation pathway. For a more comprehensive analysis, we used yeast and animal genes encoding various SUMO pathway components as queries to search for orthologs in theArabidopsis protein and DNA databases. Our initial search identified nine Arabidopsis SUM genes that encode all or part of the canonical SUMO sequence (TableI). The similarity of their intron/exon structures suggested that the Arabidopsis SUM family evolved recently from a common progenitor. With the exception ofSUM5 and SUM9, each contains two introns interrupting the coding region at the same location (Fig.2 A). For SUM5, the first intron is absent. For SUM9, the first exon is absent; the remaining coding region contains a number of in-frame stop codons, suggesting that this locus is a pseudogene. Interestingly, six of the nine SUM loci (SUM2 and -3,SUM4 and -6 (on chromosome 5), andSUM7 and -8 (on chromosome 4)) are arranged as tandem pairs in the genome without apparent intervening genes (Fig.2 A).  [[TABLE]] [[FIGURE]] Amino acid sequence comparisons showed that the ArabidopsisSUMOs are 32–86% similar to each other but only 17–25% similar toArabidopsis Ub and RUB1. When compared with yeast Smt3 and human SUMO-1 (CITATION, CITATION), the Arabidopsis SUMO family is 31–54% similar. Phylogenetic analysis clustered the eight full-lengthArabidopsis SUMO proteins into five subfamilies: SUMO1/2, SUMO3, SUMO5, SUMO4/6, and SUMO7/8 (Fig. 2 B). Given thatSUM4/6 and SUM7/8 genes are arranged in tandem, it is likely these pairs arose from regional duplications of the respective chromosomes. Clustal analysis failed to group any of theArabidopsis SUMO proteins with animal and yeast versions (Fig. 2 B). For example, SUMO1 is equally related to human SUMO-1, -2, and -3 (42, 42, and 40% similar, respectively). This prevented the assignment of orthologous polypeptides and suggested that the Arabidopsis subfamilies arose after the evolutionary split of the animal, fungal, and plant kingdoms.  Sequence alignments of an array of Arabidopsis, human,Drosophila, and yeast SUMO proteins showed that the central region is most conserved (Fig. 2 C). This region encompasses the “Ub fold” recently identified as a three-dimensional structure common among plant and animal Ubs, yeast RUB1, rat SUMO-1, and the autophagy polypeptide tag APG8 (or GATE-16) (CITATION, CITATION). As a result, it is likely that Arabidopsis SUMOs assume a similar shape to rat SUMO-1 despite substantial sequence divergence. As with yeast and animal SUMOs, Arabidopsis SUMO1–8 bear additional C-terminal residues beyond the glycine necessary for conjugation (Fig.2 C). Presumably, these residues are removed post-translationally by SUMO proteases to generate the mature active tags of 91–106 amino acids. Whereas most mature ArabidopsisSUMOs, like Ub and RUB1, are predicted to terminate in a glycine-glycine motif, three are predicted to end in a single glycine (SUMO4, -6, and -7) (Fig. 2 C). Whether this distinction affects SUMO4/6/7 processing and/or activity is not yet known.  The most divergent region among SUMOs encompasses the N-terminal 14–30 amino acids just proximal to the Ub fold. Structural analysis of rat SUMO-1 suggests that this hydrophilic region assumes a flexible solvent-exposed domain that extends from the body of the protein (CITATION). Although its function is unknown, one possibility is that this extension imparts unique properties/functions to the individual members of the SUMO family. Consistent with this notion, we identified the consensus SUMO attachment site (ΨKXE (CITATION)) within the N-terminal extensions of Arabidopsis SUMO4 and -6, in each case represented by the same VKME sequence (Fig. 2 C). Its presence suggests that both SUMO4 and -6 can form poly-SUMO chains, using the lysine as the connection site (CITATION).  We detected transcripts for four of the eight intact Arabidopsis SUM loci. SUM1, SUM2, and SUM5cDNAs are in the Arabidopsis EST data bases (www.Arabidopsis.org/Blast), and an mRNA forSUM3 was identified by RT-PCR of total RNA from young seedlings. RNA gel blot analyses of SUM1 and SUM2showed that both genes are expressed in light- and dark-grown seedlings and in all organs tested, indicating the corresponding proteins are present in most Arabidopsis tissues/cells (data not shown). Both the analyses of ESTs and the signal strength on RNA blots suggested that mRNA levels for SUM1 is higher thanSUM2 (Table I and data not shown). We could not detect mRNAs for SUM4 and SUM6–8 either by RT-PCR or RNA gel blot analysis of total RNA isolated from 6-day-old seedlings, suggesting that they are either not expressed, expressed at levels below detection, or that their expression is confined to specific cell types or developmental stages not examined here.  To confirm that the Arabidopsis SUMOs become attached to other proteins, we used immunoblot analysis with anti-SUMO1 and -3 antibodies to detect the free and conjugated forms in crude extracts. The antibodies were generated against bacterially expressed antigens containing all residues but those following the C-terminal glycine (Fig. 2 C). The anti-SUMO3 antibodies showed a slight cross-reaction with SUMO1, its closest relative by phylogenic analysis (Fig. 3 A). In contrast, the anti-SUMO1 antibodies appeared to be specific to the SUMO1/2 group; it easily detected SUMO1 and its closest relative SUMO2 (83% identity) expressed in planta but failed to detect SUMO3 (42% identity) (Fig. 3 A and below). Although not tested, we consider it unlikely that the anti-SUMO1 and -3 antibodies recognize SUMO4–8 given their even greater phylogenic distance from these two antigens.  [[FIGURE]] When both SUMO antibodies were used to probe crudeArabidopsis extracts, an array of immunoreactive proteins was evident (Fig. 3 A). The anti-SUMO1 antibody recognized an abundant species of 14 kDa that co-migrated with recombinant SUMO1; this species likely represents free SUMO1 and -2. In addition, a heterogeneous smear of high apparent molecular mass proteins, with many larger than 80 kDa, was also detected that presumably represent SUMO1/2 conjugates. A similar diverse array of conjugates was also detected in other plant species, including corn, oats, pea, tomato, tobacco, and alfalfa (data not shown). Consistent with studies using yeast, animal, and tomato cells (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), we detected by confocal microscopic immunolocalization SUMO1/2 in the cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments of Arabidopsis cells. As shown in Fig.4 for heart stage embryos, both punctate staining coincident with DNA staining within the nucleus and more diffuse staining of the cytoplasm were evident that could not be seen with preimmune antiserum (data not shown). Following centrifugal separations of crude extracts, conjugates could be detected by the anti-SUMO1 antibodies in the soluble and particulate fractions, indicating that both soluble and membrane-associated proteins are sumolated by SUMO1/2.  [[FIGURE]] In contrast, the anti-SUMO3 antibodies detected little free SUMO and a less complex assortment of SUMO conjugates with few larger than 80 kDa (Fig. 3 A). The dominant species were 18, 21, 47, 52, 80, and 150 kDa with only a trace at the predicted migration position of free SUMO3 (14 kDa). Surprisingly, only one species of 48 kDa was in common with those detected by the anti-SUMO1/2 antibodies. Whether this signal represents cross-reaction of the antibodies with a non-sumolated protein or a target modified by both SUMO1/2 and -3 remains to be determined. Although it is possible that the weak signal at 15 kDa represents free SUMO3, given that the anti-SUMO3 antibodies can recognize SUMO1 (albeit poorly) and that free SUMO1/2 is abundant inArabidopsis extracts, this signal more likely represents free SUMO1/2. Overall, differences in the levels of their free forms and the distinct SDS-PAGE profiles of their conjugates revealed that SUMO1/2 and SUMO3 have different conjugation dynamics and modify distinct sets of Arabidopsis targets.  To test if we could recapitulate this sumolation in vitro,32P-labeled SUMO1 was added to crude plant extracts under conditions that promote SUMO conjugation (+ATP). In addition toArabidopsis, wheat germ was tested based on previous studies (CITATION) demonstrating that it represents a rich source of in vitro ubiquitination activity. By using full-length unprocessed SUMO1, a heterogeneous profile of SUMO1 conjugates was synthesized in both extracts by an ATP-dependent reaction (Fig.3 B). Because conjugation of this SUMO should first require trimming by SUMO proteases to remove the C-terminal SGGGATA extension (see Fig. 2 C), this activity implies that one or more of these proteases was working in the extracts as well.  Like ubiquitination, sumolation requires a number of accessory proteins as follows: (i) for processing the SUMO precursors, (ii) for the ATP-dependent multistep enzymatic cascade to attach SUMOs to various targets, and (iii) for ultimately removing the bound SUMOs (see Fig. 1). By using yeast and animal genes as queries, we identified by Blast one or moreArabidopsis loci predicted to encode each of these required catalytic steps (Fig. 5).  [[FIGURE]] In animals and yeasts, the E1 responsible for ATP-dependent SUMO activation is a heterodimer, structurally and functionally related to the single E1 (or UBA1) polypeptide required for Ub activation (Fig.5 A). The SUMO ActivatingEnzyme (SAE)-1 subunit corresponds to the N-terminal half of UBA1 and likewise contains a Thiamine Biosynthesis Protein F (ThiF) family domain present in members of the ThiF/MeoB/HesA family (Pfam accession number PF00899). The SAE2 subunit corresponds to the C-terminal part of UBA1. It contains a second ThiF domain with a GXGXXG motif that likely participates in ATP binding. This domain is followed by a positionally conserved cysteine in the consensus KXXP(V/G)CTXXXXP motif (CITATION) that activates SUMOs by forming the ATP-dependent thiol-ester linkage with the tag. In addition, SAE2 has a UBA-C- terminal (UBACT) domain (Pfam accession number PF02134). This domain of unknown function is also present in Ub-activating enzymes and is located downstream of the active-site cysteine. Our search identified two Arabidopsis genes encoding SAE1 proteins of 81% amino acid sequence identity to each other and 28 and 32% identity to their Drosophila and humans orthologs, respectively (Fig. 5 A). The presence of ESTs and RNA gel blot analyses indicate that both SAE1a andSAE1b are expressed (Table I and data not shown). Only one gene was detected that encodes the second subunit, SAE2 (Fig.5 A). It is 28–33% identical to its animal orthologs and likewise contains the active-site cysteine, the UBA-CT domain, and a C-terminal motif (amino acids 646–650) proposed to function as a nuclear localization signal. SAE2 is expressed, but both the scarcity of ESTs and weak signals by RNA gel blot analysis suggest that its expression is low as compared with SAE1a and-b (Table I and data not shown).  Following activation, SUMOs are transferred to the SUMO-conjugating enzyme (E2), identified as UBC9 in yeast (CITATION, CITATION). We identified twoArabidopsis loci encoding related proteins designated here as SUMO Conjugating Enzyme (SCE)-1a and -b. SCE1a encompasses the entire E2, whereas SCE1b appears truncated, missing 53 residues from the N-terminal end (Fig.5 A). Like UBC9, SCE1a belongs to a family of conjugating enzymes, all of which have a conserved UBCC (Ub-Conjugating enzyme Catalytic) domain that spans most of the protein and includes a positionally conserved cysteine that forms the thiol ester linkage with the peptide modifier. SCEs are the most conserved across eukaryotes as compared with other components of the sumolation pathway; for example Arabidopsis SCE1a is 53% identical to its yeast ortholog UBC9. Both the presence of ESTs and RNA gel blot analysis indicate that SCE1a is highly expressed in many Arabidopsis tissues (Table I and data not shown). Anti-SCE1 antibodies also detected the resulting protein in roots, leaves, flowers, and stems of soil-grown plants (data not shown). We have been unable to detect the SCE1b transcript by RNA gel blot analysis and RT-PCR or the predicted SCE1b protein by immunoblot analysis. Coupled with the apparent truncation of its coding sequence, we consider it likely that SCE1b is a pseudogene.  In the Ub conjugation pathway, target recognition and Ub transfer ultimately require a Ub ligase or E3 (CITATION, CITATION). In Arabidopsis, a multitude of E3s exist, suggesting a one-to-one correspondence to individual targets (CITATION). Recently, a small family of SUMO E3s has been identified in both yeast and animals (CITATION, CITATION,CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). They contain a RING-like domain called Siz-PIAS RING (SP-RING), which may facilitate interactions with UBC9, and a chromatin organization domain SAF-A/B-Acinus-PIAS (SAP). Thus far, we could detect only a single potential SUMO E3 ortholog inArabidopsis (AtSIZ1) bearing both the Siz-PIAS and SAP motifs (Fig. 5 A). A number of AtSIZ1 ESTs are evident, suggesting that this gene is highly expressed (TableI).  SUMO proteases specifically remove amino acids distal to the C-terminal glycine important for conjugation and thus are essential for processing SUMO precursors to generate the active polypeptides and for releasing bound SUMOs to regenerate targets and SUMOs in unmodified forms (CITATION, CITATION) (Fig. 1). Two types of SUMO proteases have been described thus far in animals related to yeast Ub-LikeProtease-1 (ULP1) and ULP2/Smt4 (CITATION, CITATION). Both types contain a conserved 200-amino acid ULP1-Catalytic (ULP1-C) domain that surrounds a catalytic triad of histidine, aspartate, and cysteine residues (CITATION, CITATION). Searches of the Arabidopsisdatabase identified 12 genes (designated here as ULP1a–dand ULP2a–h) that encode the consensus UBP1-C domain with the His/Asp/Cys catalytic triad (Table I and Fig. 5, A andB). Phylogenic analysis of the ULP1-C domain clustered the 12 into three subfamilies with two subfamilies more related to yeast ULP1 and the third more related to yeast ULP2/Smt4 (Fig.5 B). Outside of the ULP1-C domain, theArabidopsis ULPs bear little sequence similarity, suggesting that they attack different targets. In addition, we detected a number of ULP-like proteins with the ULP1-C signature but missing one or more of the essential amino acids that form the catalytic triad (data not shown). Whether these are functional ULPs is not yet known.  Given the observations that sumolation is activated by stress and that some SUMO targets are part of the stress response in animals (CITATION, CITATION), we tested if SUMOs play a comparable role in plants. Here, we subjected young Arabidopsis seedlings grown in liquid culture to various stress conditions, and we measured the levels of free and conjugated SUMO1/2 and SUMO3 by immunoblot analysis of crude seedling extracts. Stress conditions included exposure to heat (28–47 °C) and cold shock (4 °C), high NaCl (75–300 mm) or osmoticum (75 mm to 1 m mannitol and sorbitol), toxic metals (0.2–100 mg/liter lead, copper, cadmium, cesium, and arsenic), 7% ethanol, the amino acid analog canavanine (0.3–30 mg/liter), and oxidative stress elicited by paraquat (0.2–20 mm) or H2O2 (5–50 mm) (Figs. 6 and7 and data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Although many stress conditions had little or no effect on the pools of free and conjugated SUMO1/2 and -3, exposure to heat, H2O2, ethanol, and canavanine induced a dramatic increase in SUMO conjugates that was specific for the SUMO1/2 isoforms (Figs. 6 and 7). For example within 30 min from the beginning of a temperature shift from 24 to 37 °C, a dramatic rise in SUMO1/2 conjugates was evident as compared with PBA1, a 26 S proteasome subunit used to verify equal protein loads (CITATION) (Fig. 6). This increase preceded the accumulation of HSP101, a chaperone whose synthesis is rapidly up-regulated following heat shock (CITATION), suggesting that the response is fast. From quantitations of the blots, we estimated that the levels of SUMO1/2 conjugates increased ∼6-fold during the heat stress. In contrast, the levels of SUMO3 conjugates remained constant during the heat stress, whereas the levels of Ub conjugates, previously shown to accumulate during heat stress (CITATION, CITATION), displayed a slower and more modest increase (Fig. 6).  Concomitant with the rise in SUMO1/2 conjugates was a significant drop in the levels of the free form raising the possibility that free SUMO1/2 became limiting during the heat stress. To examine this possibility and prove that SUMO2 is also involved in the response, we tested transgenic Arabidopsis lines overexpressing SUMO2 under the control of the 35S promoter. As can be seen in Fig. 6, these lines had increased levels of free and conjugated SUMO1/2 under non-stressed conditions. When subjected to heat shock, the levels of SUMO1/2 conjugates rose even further to levels beyond that seen for wild-type plants. Only a modest drop in free SUMO1/2 was observed, suggesting that these transgenic plants were now saturated for the free forms. Thus under acute heat stress, free SUMO1/2 and not their targets, appears to be limiting in wild-type plants. Despite such changes, the phenotype of the 35S-SUMO2 plants were indistinguishable from wild type when grown under a variety of conditions including elevated temperatures (data not shown). They also showed no change in the induction of HSP101 accumulation during heat stress, suggesting that the heat shock response was not altered as well (Fig. 6).  In a similar fashion to heat shock, exposure to 7% ethanol or increasing concentrations of H2O2 and canavanine dramatically increased the levels of SUMO1/2 conjugates (Fig. 7). The effects of ethanol and H2O2 were rapid, with SUMO1/2 conjugates rising within 10 min after their addition to the culture medium (data not shown). In contrast, the effect of canavanine was much slower, requiring hours to elicit a response. This slower response is consistent with the fact that this amino acid analog must be taken up by the plant and translationally incorporated into protein before inflicting cellular damage. Like heat shock, these stresses substantially changed the amount but not the profile of SUMO1/2 conjugates, suggesting that the same array of targets was sumolated with the stress simply increasing the percentage in the modified form. The only major difference among the four stress treatments was an abundant 31-kDa conjugate that specifically appeared during a 24-h exposure to canavanine (Fig. 7). In contrast to heat shock, we did not observe a drop in free SUMO1/2 suggesting that the other stresses consumed less of the free pool when forming conjugates. Whereas the ethanol and H2O2 treatments failed to induce the expression of HSP101 within the 60 min that we observed an increase in SUMO1/2 conjugates, an increase in HSP101 levels was evident following a 24-h exposure to canavanine.  To examine the heat-stress response in more detail, we varied the duration and magnitude of the treatment and examined their effects on the accumulation of SUMO1/2 conjugates. As shown in Fig.8 using increasing lengths of the heat shock, the response is transient with the duration dependent on pulse length. A 2-min incubation of the cultures at 37 °C induced only a mild accumulation of SUMO1/2 conjugates that subsequently returned to normal levels ∼30 min later. Progressively longer incubations increased not only the amount of conjugates but also their duration such that a 120-min exposure to 37 °C generated an increased pool of SUMO1/2 conjugates that remained in the seedlings for more than 2 h after their return to 22 °C. The rise and fall of SUMO1/2 conjugates were paralleled by a decline and reappearance of free SUMO1/2 (Fig. 8). This inverse relationship suggested that the SUMO1/2 modifier was not consumed following conjugation but was instead released from sumolated proteins after the heat shock was over. Like other heat shock responses (CITATION, CITATION), the Arabidopsisseedlings required temperatures ≥34 °C to induce a significant increase in SUMO1/2 conjugates with the maximal response at 40 °C (Fig. 9). The response was also remarkably rapid. We detected a rise in SUMO1/2 conjugates within 2 min after transferring the cultures to the 40 °C water bath (Fig. 9), which was even more impressive when considering the fact that the medium needed almost 8 min to reach this heat shock temperature under our experimental conditions.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Surprisingly, heat-induced sumolation appeared to adapt to the stress. Plants subjected to a first heat treatment at 37 °C showed a substantial but transient accumulation of SUMO1/2 conjugates (Fig.10). However, only a slight increase in conjugates was evident for a second heat shock if given within 5 h of the first. This dampened response required almost 20 h to fully dissipate. A comparable effect for the HSP101 protein was not observed. Instead HSP101 accumulated following the first heat shock and remained at high levels for over 24 h with or without a second heat treatment (Fig. 10).  [[FIGURE]] The rapid and temperature-dependent nature of the response along with its transient effect and adaptability implied that stress-induced sumolation by SUMO1/2 has an important regulatory role in the plant stress response. To help confirm this role, we examined the SUMO1/2 conjugate patterns in Arabidopsis lines constitutively expressing high levels of a cytosolic isoform of HSP70, designated HSC70-1.2 The HSC70-1 gene is expressed in most Arabidopsis tissues and is mildly up-regulated by heat shock (CITATION). Similar to the behavior of comparableDrosophila and mammalian mutants (CITATION, CITATION), these HSC70-1-overexpressing lines are more thermotolerant, exhibiting an increased survival to an acute 44 °C heat shock.2 Young homozygous HSC70-OX seedlings contained 3–4 times more HSC70 protein as compared with wild type or a weak expresser but normal levels of total protein and a variety control proteins such a PBA1 (Fig.11 and data not shown). When subjected to a 37 °C heat stress for 30 min, these overexpressing seedlings accumulated substantially less HSP101 protein, presumably caused by a lower demand for other types of chaperones. In addition, these HSP70-OX plants accumulated fewer SUMO1/2 conjugates during the heat shock and concomitantly retained more of the free forms (Fig. 11). Both the peak amount of SUMO1/2 conjugates and their duration within the plants were dampened (e.g. compare levels at the 120-min time point), suggesting that the accumulation of SUMO1/2 conjugates is physiologically relevant to thermotolerance.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis genes encoding SUMOs (SUMs), SUMO-activating enzyme (E1: SAE1 and-2), SUMO-conjugating enzyme (E2: SCE), SUMO ligase (E3: SIZ1), and SUMO proteases (ULPs) were identified by Blast searches (CITATION) of the A. thaliana DNA database (www.arabidopsis.org). Primary queries were humanSUMO-1 (GenBankTM accession number X99585 (CITATION)),SAE1 and SAE2 (GenBankTM accession numbers AF110956 and AF110957 (CITATION)), S. cerevisiae UBC9 (GenBankTM accession number X82538 (CITATION)),SIZ1 (GenBankTM accession number NP_010697 (CITATION)), Smt4 (GenBankTM accession number AAA69556 (CITATION)), andULP1 (GenBankTM accession number Q02724 (CITATION)). Gene structures for SUM1–3, SAE1a-b,SAE2, SCE1a-b, and SIZ1 were determined by comparison of chromosomal DNA sequences with those obtained from full-length cDNAs provided from the expressed sequence tag (EST) database or by reverse-transcribed (RT)-PCR. Sequences not yet described were deposited in the GenBankTMdatabase under accession numbers AF510519 (SUM1), AF510520(SUM2), AF510521 (SUM3), AF510522(SUM5), AF510523 (SAE1a), AF510524(SAE1b), and AF510525 (SAE2). The structures of the remaining loci were predicted from partial cDNAs (when available) and comparisons with Arabidopsis, yeast, and animal relatives.  Sequences were analyzed using the ClustalW algorithm (www2.ebi.ac.uk/clustalw). Multiple sequence alignments and neighbor joining analyses were displayed using SeqVu 1.0 (The Garvan Institute of Medical Research, Sydney, Australia) and the Njplot programs (mgouy{at}biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr), respectively. Protein domains were identified by the Smart prediction program (smart.embl-heidelberg.de), and sequence homology was detected by Block Maker (blocks.fhcrc.org/blocks/blockmkr/make_blocks.html).   A. thaliana ecotype Col-0 tissues were obtained from plants grown on soil at 22 °C in continuous light. For the stress treatments, plants were grown at 24 °C in liquid Gamborg's B5 medium (Invitrogen) in continuous light with shaking (100 rpm) after a 4 °C stratification for 2 days. To initiate temperature stress, cultures where transferred to shaking water baths preset to the designated temperatures. For chemical treatments, compounds were added directly into the liquid culture medium.  Antibodies were raised against full-length recombinant Arabidopsis SUMO1 and -3. The full-length SUM1 and SUM3 cDNAs were generated by PCR using either the cDNA (SUM1) or a RT-PCR product from total RNA isolated from A. thalianaCol-0 (SUM3) as the templates. The 5′ and 3′ primers were designed to introduce NdeI and XhoI sites orNdeI and SmaI sites at the predicted start and stop codons, respectively. The SUM1 cDNA was inserted into NdeI/XhoI-digested pET28b (Novagen, Madison, WI) and mobilized into Escherichia coli strain BL21 (DE3). Following a 3-h induction at 37 °C with 0.4 mmisopropyl-1-thio-β-d-galactopyranoside, the clarified extract was heated to 90 °C for 30 min and clarified, and the supernatant was subjected to Sephadex G-75 column chromatography (Amersham Biosciences). The SUMO1-containing eluate, which represented a nearly homogeneous preparation as determined by SDS-PAGE, was injected directly into rabbits. For SUMO3, the RT-PCR product was cloned into pGEM®-T Easy vector (Promega, Madison, WI), released as aNdeI/SmaI fragment, and then introduced into the pTYB2 vector linearized with SmaI and NdeI for expression in E. coli as an intein/chitin-binding protein fusion (IMPACT I, New England Biolabs). Following a 3-h induction at 37 °C, the BL21(DE3) cells were lysed, and total soluble protein was applied to a chitin column according to manufacturer's recommendations (New England Biolabs). The bound protein was treated with 30 mm dithioerythritol for 12 h at 4 °C. The intein cleavage product was eluted, heated for 30 min at 90 °C, and separated from precipitated proteins by centrifugation. The supernatant was applied to a Sephadex G-75 column; the SUMO3-containing fractions were used directly as the antigen.  Anti-SUMO1 antibodies were affinity-purified from serum by adsorption to SUMO1 protein coupled to Affi-Gel 10 beads (Bio-Rad). Anti-SUMO3 antibodies were purified by protein A affinity chromatography (Sigma). The anti-Ub antibody, anti-PBA1 antiserum, and anti-HSP101 antiserum were described previously (CITATION, CITATION).  Immunoblot analyses were performed as described (CITATION), using proteins subjected to SDS-PAGE and transferred to nitrocellulose membranes (Hybond-C Extra, Amersham Biosciences). The membranes were blocked using 10% milk powder and probed with antibodies diluted in phosphate-buffered saline containing 1% milk powder. Detection employed either alkaline phosphatase- or peroxidase-labeled goat anti-rabbit immunoglobulins (Kirkegaard & Perry Laboratories, Gaithersburg, MD) in conjunction with nitro blue tetrazolium and 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate or Super Signal chemiluminescence (Pierce) and X-Omat autoradiographic film (Eastman Kodak), respectively.  Immunolocalization was performed as described using thin sections of developing Arabidopsis embryos (CITATION). Sections were probed with preimmune antiserum or anti-SUMO1 antibodies followed by fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled goat antibodies against rabbit IgGs (Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories, West Grove, PA) and visualized by fluorescence confocal microscopy. DNA was detected by staining the sections with the TO-PRO 3 (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR).  Purified recombinant SUMO1 was 32P-labeled using protein kinase A (Sigma) as described (CITATION) and separated from unincorporated 32P by filtration on a NAP10 column (Amersham Biosciences). Plant extracts were prepared by homogenizing pulverized frozen tissue in 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 8.0), 1 mm Na4EDTA, 300 mm sucrose, and 14 mm 2-mercaptoethanol (CITATION). Reactions (100 μl) contained 0.5 μg of 32P-SUMO1 and either an ATP-regenerating or an ATP-depleting system (CITATION). After a 1-h incubation at 25 °C, the reactions were quenched by addition of SDS sample buffer, and the products were visualized by autoradiography following SDS-PAGE.  The coding region for SUM2 was PCR-amplified from the full-length cDNA using primers designed to introduceXbaI sites at both ends (underlined) 5′-CCCGCGAATCTCTCTAGAGGCTTCGCTTATATC and 3′-CCATTAAAATAATCTAGAGTAAAAGCAGAAGAGCTT. The product was digested with XbaI and inserted into theXbaI-linearized binary T-DNA vector pGSVE9 immediately downstream of the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus 35Spromoter (CITATION). The 35S-SUM2 construction was introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AtC58RifR(pMP90), which was then used to transform A. thaliana ectotype Col-0 by the floral dip method (CITATION). Initial transformants and selfed T2 progeny were identified by hygromycin resistance. The T3 progenies homozygous for hygromycin resistance were confirmed to overexpress SUMO2 by immunoblot analysis with anti-SUMO1 antibodies.  Homozygous T3 and T4 plants overexpressing the HSC70-1cDNA under the direction of the Figwort Mosaic Virus promoter and the Nopaline Synthase 3′ end were created (lines 8–7 and 8–9 as described).2 For controls, wild-type Col-0 and a weak HSC70-OX transgenic (CITATION) line were used.2 The protein was detected with a monoclonal antibody against spinach HSC70 (SPA-817, StressGen, Victoria, British Columbia, Canada). 
