!~ABS~! NDP kinases (NDPKs) are multifunctional proteins that regulate a variety of eukaryotic cellular activities, including cell proliferation, development, and differentiation. However, much less is known about the functional significance of NDPKs in plants. We show here that NDPK is associated with H2O2-mediated mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling in plants. H2O2 stress strongly induces the expression of the NDPK2 gene in Arabidopsis thaliana (AtNDPK2). Proteins from transgenic plants overexpressing AtNDPK2 showed high levels of autophosphorylation and NDPK activity, and they have lower levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) than wild-type plants. Mutants lacking AtNDPK2 had higher levels of ROS than wild type. H2O2 treatment induced the phosphorylation of two endogenous proteins whose molecular weights suggested they are AtMPK3 and AtMPK6, two H2O2-activated A. thaliana mitogen-activated protein kinases. In the absence of H2O2 treatment, phosphorylation of these proteins was slightly elevated in plants overexpressing AtNDPK2 but markedly decreased in the AtNDPK2 deletion mutant. Yeast two-hybrid and in vitro protein pull-down assays revealed that AtNDPK2 specifically interacts with AtMPK3 and AtMPK6. Furthermore, AtNDPK2 also enhances the myelin basic protein phosphorylation activity of AtMPK3 in vitro. Finally, constitutive overexpression of AtNDPK2 in Arabidopsis plants conferred an enhanced tolerance to multiple environmental stresses that elicit ROS accumulation in situ. Thus, AtNDPK2 appears to play a previously uncharacterized regulatory role in H2O2-mediated MAPK signaling in plants.
!~RES~! We recently developed a yeast-based genetic screening method to clone plant genes involved in cellular redox regulation (CITATION). This method allowed us to identify a number of genes from plant that suppress Bax toxicity by inhibiting ROS generation in yeast. Several PBI (Plant Bax Inhibitor) genes were isolated, among which the PBI1 (soybean ascorbate peroxidase) gene has already been described (CITATION). PBI2 was identified as soybean NDPK (accession no. U50150). To determine the physiological role of NDPKs in ROS-mediated signaling in plants, we used the Arabidopsis genetic system. Wild-type plants were exposed to H2O2 and the transcript levels of three NDPK isoforms, AtNDPK1, -2 and -3, were analyzed. Transcript levels, especially that of AtNDPK2, were significantly raised within 30 min of H2O2 treatment and remained high for 12 h after treatment (Fig. FIG-REF). These results suggest that AtNDPK2 plays a crucial role in the response to oxidative stress. Because light signaling, especially that mediated by phytochrome A, occurs through AtNDPK2 (CITATION), and because several biotic and abiotic stress responses that can generate ROS are mediated in a light-dependent manner (CITATION, CITATION), we investigated the functional significance of AtNDPK2 in ROS stress first of all.  [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether AtNDPK2 expression can influence the cellular redox state, transgenic Arabidopsis plants that overexpress AtNDPK2 were developed. The AtNDPK2 expression was confirmed by Western blot analysis (Fig. FIG-REFA). Compared with wild-type plants, the proteins isolated from transgenic plants were autophosphorylated at higher levels and showed greater NDPK activity (Fig. FIG-REF B and C). ROS levels in wild-type, AtNDPK2 knockout mutant (CITATION), and transgenic plants overexpressing AtNDPK2 were measured by analyzing the fluorescence levels in DCFH-DA-stained protoplasts (Fig. FIG-REF; ref. CITATION). Mutant protoplasts lacking AtNDPK2 had higher ROS levels than wild-type cells. In contrast, the AtNDPK2-overexpressing protoplasts exhibited reduced fluorescence and appeared dark against the faint background fluorescence (Fig. FIG-REFA). That AtNDPK2 inhibits ROS generation was confirmed by the flow cytometric analysis of protoplasts (Fig. FIG-REFB). These experiments reveal that, whereas the wild-type protoplasts showed detectable levels of DCF fluorescence, the protoplasts overexpressing AtNDPK2 had very low fluorescence. When the protoplast fluorescence was measured by fluorescent spectrophotometry, the relative DCF fluorescence intensity was lower in the AtNDPK2 overexpressing cells (50%) than in the wild-type (80%) or knockout mutant (95%) protoplasts (Fig. FIG-REFC). These observations further support the notion that AtNDPK2 is involved in ROS regulation in planta.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Plant cells produce ROS in response to a broad range of biological and physiological environmental stimuli. AtNDPK2 regulates the accumulation of ROS inside the cells (Fig. FIG-REF), most likely by phosphorylating specific proteins. To determine the targets of AtNDPK2 activity, we investigated the protein-phosphorylation profiles of untreated and H2O2-treated wild-type cells by performing the protein phosphorylation assay. Two abundantly phosphorylated proteins were detected in H2O2-treated wild-type cells (Fig. FIG-REF). The molecular sizes of these proteins suggest that they may be AtMPK3 and AtMPK6, the two MAPKs in Arabidopsis known to become activated by H2O2 treatment (CITATION). In untreated AtNDPK2 knockout cells, the phosphorylation of these two proteins was greatly decreased. In contrast, in untreated AtNDPK2-overexpressing transgenic cells, their phosphorylation was slightly increased above the levels in wild-type plants (Fig. FIG-REF).  [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the regulation of the cellular redox state is directly linked to AtNDPK2 and H2O2–activated MAPK signaling in plants, we next investigated whether AtNDPK2 can interact directly with AtMPK3 and AtMPK6 by performing yeast two-hybrid assays. We found that AtNDPK2 interacts with AtMPK3 and AtMPK6 (Fig. FIG-REFA) but not with AtMPK1, another Arabidopsis MAPK (CITATION). We also determined whether this interaction is specific to AtNDPK2 or whether other members of the AtNDPK gene family could perform the same function. Members of the AtNDPK family have different localizations, and each member most likely has a distinct role. AtNDPK1 does not have an identifiable targeting sequence and is thus presumably localized to the cytosol; AtNDPK3 localizes to the mitochondria membrane (CITATION). AtNDPK2 has an N-terminal extension and localizes mainly in nucleus and cytoplasm (CITATION, CITATION). Yeast two-hybrid assays reveal that AtNDPK1 and AtNDPK3 did not interact with AtMPK3 and AtMPK6 (Fig. FIG-REF and data not shown). Taken together, the results indicate that AtNDPK2 binds specifically to AtMPK3 and AtMPK6.  [[FIGURE]] Direct interaction of AtNDPK2 with AtMPK3 was confirmed by performing the GST pull-down assay with the Escherichia coli-expressed recombinant proteins His-AtMPK3 and GST-AtNDPK2. After incubating the proteins together, the mixture was fractionated by SDS/PAGE and subjected to Western blot analysis by using monoclonal antibodies specific for GST or His (Fig. FIG-REFB). His-AtMPK3 was pulled down with GST-AtNDPK2 but not with GST, indicating that AtNDPK2 and AtMPK3 specifically and directly bind to each other in vitro. We demonstrated that AtNDPK2 also modulates the kinase activity of AtMPK3 by performing an in vitro MAPK activity assay by using MBP, which is a MAPK-specific substrate. The recombinant proteins GST-AtNDPK2 and/or His-AtMPK3 were incubated with [γ-32P]ATP and MBP. AtNDPK2 exhibited very good autophosphorylation activity but failed to phosphorylate MBP (Fig. FIG-REF). Increasing the amount of AtNDPK2 (1 μg) and extending the film exposure times failed to reveal any additional MBP phosphorylation (data not shown), suggesting that MBP is a poor substrate for AtNDPK2. In contrast, recombinant AtMPK3 readily phosphorylated MBP. When the two proteins were incubated together, AtMAPK3-mediated MBP phosphorylation was elevated (Fig. FIG-REF), indicating that AtNDPK2 significantly enhances the phosphorylation ability of AtMPK3. Interestingly, the autophosphorylation activity of AtNDPK2 was greatly reduced or sometimes disappeared when it was incubated together with AtMPK3 and MBP (Fig. FIG-REF and data not shown). Furthermore, we could not detect phosphorylated AtMPK3 either in the presence or absence of AtNDPK2 and MBP. It is possible that the phosphotransferase activity of AtMPK3 is more efficient than its autophosphorylation activity, and, as a result, the phosphate bound to the enzyme is immediately transferred to its substrate, MBP. These results collectively suggest that AtNDPK2 autophosphorylates itself but is unable to phosphorylate MBP, and that it enhances the ability of AtMPK3 to phosphorylate MBP.  [[FIGURE]] Recent studies indicate that H2O2 can activate a specific Arabidopsis MAPKKK, ANP1, which initiates the phosphorylation cascade that involves AtMPK3 and AtMPK6 activation (CITATION). The activated MAPK cascade in turn activates the stress-response genes that protect plants from diverse environmental stresses (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Because AtNDPK2 is associated with the cellular redox state (Fig. FIG-REF) and enhances the MAPK activity of AtMPK3 (Fig. FIG-REF), we investigated whether overexpression of AtNDPK2 influences the response of Arabidopsis plants to cold, salt, and ROS stress (Fig. FIG-REF). The cold tolerance assay was performed by freezing the wild-type and transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing AtNDPK2 at −7°C (CITATION), after which the plants were returned to normal growth conditions, and surviving plants were counted 1 week later. The transgenic plants were 50% more tolerant to cold stress than the wild type (Fig. FIG-REFA). The surviving plants of both types retained their chlorophyll pigmentation. Further, 50 mM NaCl severely affected the germination and growth rate of the wild-type plants, and >80% of transgenic plants expressing AtNDPK2 survived (Fig. FIG-REFB). Phenotypically, the transgenic plants did not differ from the wild-type plants under normal growth conditions (Fig. FIG-REFB). The survival rates of transgenic plants to cold and salt stress correlate positively with the ectopic expression level of AtNDPK2 (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] As ROS enhance the expression of AtNDPK2 (Fig. FIG-REF), we speculated that overexpressing AtNDPK2 would protect the plant from ROS stress. To test this hypothesis, AtNDPK2-transgenic and -knockout mutants were subjected to oxidative stress induced by MV, an herbicide that elevates cellular ROS levels by inhibiting photosynthesis and photorespiration. MV is widely used as source of superoxide radicals in studies related to photosynthesis (CITATION). The AtNDPK2-overexpressing transgenic plants were more tolerant to MV-mediated oxidative stress than were the wild type, whereas the mutants lacking AtNDPK2 were more sensitive (Fig. FIG-REFC). On the phenotypic level, the leaves from the transgenic plants appeared greener than those of wild type and the AtNDPK2-knockout mutants (Fig. FIG-REFC). This observation was confirmed by measuring the chlorophyll content of the leaves, which showed that the transgenic plants had 23% and 59.5% more chlorophyll than did the wild type and knockout mutant, respectively (data are the mean of four independent analysis). These results suggest that overexpression of AtNDPK2 enhances the tolerance of Arabidopsis plants to multiple stresses.
!~MM~! Wild-type (ecotype WS), AtNDPK2 knockout (CITATION), and AtNDPK2-overexpressing transgenic (T3) Arabidopsis thaliana plants were used in this study. Plants were transformed with the Agrobacterium binary vector pCAMBIA1300 (provided by R. Jefferson, CAMBIA, Canberra, Australia) containing AtNDPK2 cDNA (CITATION) inserted into the XbaI and BamHI sites under the control of the CaMV35S promoter. AtNDPK2 expression in transgenic plants was confirmed by both Northern and Western analysis. The chlorophyll content in leaf samples was determined by using a standard protocol (CITATION). Protoplasts from plants were prepared according to the protocol described (CITATION). Total RNA from control and transgenic plants was isolated as described (CITATION), and 10 μg was electrophoresed on a formaldehyde-1.5% agarose gel. Then, it was transferred to a Millipore Immobilon-Ny+ transfer membrane, UV crosslinked, and hybridized with AtNDPK1, -2, and -3, (accession nos. AF017641, AF017640, and AF044265) gene-specific probe (UTR region). RNA blot hybridization and membrane washing were performed as described (CITATION). Total proteins in Arabidopsis leaves were extracted in 30 mM Tris, pH 8.0, containing 1 mM EDTA and 1× plant protease inhibitor mixture (Sigma) and separated on a SDS/12% PAGE gel. Then, they were blotted onto a Nylon membrane (Hybond-C Extra, Amersham Pharmacia) by using a semidry electro-blotter. Anti-AtNDPK2, anti-His, and anti-GST monoclonal antibodies were used for detection by using a standard protocol (CITATION). Total proteins from Arabidopsis leaves were extracted in 30 mM Tris, pH 8.0, containing 1 mM EDTA and 1× plant protease inhibitor mixture (Sigma). The protein phosphorylation activity was measured by incubating 1 μg of plant proteins at 30°C for 15 min in a solution containing 50 mM Hepes (pH 7.5), 1 mM DTT, and 10 mM MgCl2 with 0.5 μCi (1 Ci = 37 GBq) [γ-32P]ATP. Kinase activity was measured by incubating 1 μg of plant protein for 10 min at 30°C in 20 mM Hepes, pH 7.4, buffer containing 1 mM each of ATP and GDP, 0.5 μCi [γ-32P]ATP, and 3 mM MgCl2 in a total volume of 10 μl. The activity was arrested by adding SDS sample buffer containing 125 mM Tris base, 2% (vol/vol) SDS, and 10% (vol/vol) glycerol. A 4-μl aliquot of the sample was spotted onto polyethyleneimine-cellulose (PEI-cellulose) TLC plates and developed with 0.75 M KH2PO4 buffer, pH 3.6. Dried TLC plates were exposed to x-ray film to detect [γ-32P]GTP (CITATION). For the MBP phosphorylation assay, purified His-AtMPK3 (1 μg) was incubated for 15 min at 37°C with or without GST-AtNDPK2 (0.1 μg) and myelin basic protein (1 μg) together with 0.5 μCi [γ-32P]ATP and 3 mM MgCl2. The reaction was arrested by the addition of SDS sample buffer, and the samples were subjected to SDS/PAGE on a 12% gel. Phosphorylated proteins were visualized by autoradiography at different exposure times. To measure intracellular ROS levels, Arabidopsis protoplasts were incubated for 5 min at room temperature with 2,7-dichlorohydrofluoroscein diacetate (DCFH-DA; D-399, Molecular Probes) at a final concentration of 5 μM and then analyzed microscopically by a model Axioplan2 fluorescence microscope (Zeiss) by using AXIOVISION V.3.0 software (CITATION). The fluorescence intensity levels were measured in flow cytometer PASIII (Partec GmbH, Bioflow, Martinsried, Germany) with excitation and emission settings of 488 and 530 nm, respectively. Experiments were repeated at least three times with ≈30,000 protoplasts per assay. The intracellular ROS levels in DCFH-DA-treated protoplasts were also measured by spectrofluorometric analyses by using a UV-fluorescent spectrophotometer (SFM25, Bio-Tek, Burlington, VT) with excitation and emission settings of 488 and 530 nm, respectively. The full-length coding regions of AtMPK1, -3, and -6 were cloned into the pAS2–1 vector (carrying the TRP1 gene, CLONTECH) containing the GAL4 DNA-binding domain (BD). AtNDPK1, -2, and -3 were cloned into the pACT2 vector (carrying the LEU2 gene, CLONTECH) containing the GAL4 activation domain (AD). pTD1-1 and pVA3-1 (CLONTECH) encode the interacting proteins tumor suppressor p53 and simian virus 40 (SV40) large T-antigen (CITATION) fused with the BD and AD, respectively, and were used as a positive control. Interaction of the encoded fusion proteins was investigated by cotransforming appropriate plasmids into the yeast reporter strain pJ69-4A (MATa trp1–90 leu2-3,112 ura3–52 his3–200 gal4 Δgal80 ΔLYS2∷GAL1-HIS3 GAL2-ADE2 met2∷GAL7-lacZ; ref. CITATION). Transformed yeast cells bearing both the plasmids were selected by being plated on SD medium lacking tryptophan and leucine (SD-WL) and grown at 28°C for 4 days. Interaction of proteins encoded by recombinant pAS2–1/pACT2 was tested by growing the cells in SD medium lacking tryptophan, leucine, and adenine (SD-WLA). Adenine-positive colonies were further tested for β-galactosidase (LacZ) activation according to the manufacturer's protocol (CLONTECH). The growth of blue colonies in adenine-deficient medium indicated positive interaction. The positive yeast colonies as indicated by both reporter genes (adenine and LacZ) were independently identified and isolated. Plasmids from these clones were rescued, and the presence of the insert sequences was confirmed by restriction analysis and sequencing. Purified GST or GST-AtNDPK2 was incubated for 2 h at 4°C with 40 μl of glutathione-Sepharose in PBST (PBS containing 1% Triton X-100). After three washes, the beads were incubated with His-AtMPK3 in 0.5 ml of PBST for 3 h on a rotary shaker at 4°C. The beads then were washed several times with PBST, boiled with SDS sample buffer, and subjected to SDS/PAGE using a 12% gel. Western analysis of the resolved proteins was carried out by using anti-His and anti-GST monoclonal antibodies. Plants were evaluated for cold tolerance according to the protocol described (CITATION). To test for salt tolerance, seeds of wild-type and T3 transgenic plants were surface sterilized, placed on 1× MS agar medium containing 50–100 mM NaCl, and grown for 3 weeks in a growth chamber under controlled conditions (12-h day/12-h night cycle, at 25°C, with a light intensity of 100 Em−2s−1). The response to salt stress was scored by counting the surviving plants. To test the effect of MV (methyl viologen), leaves from 3-week-old plants were incubated in liquid MS medium containing 1 μM MV in 0.1% Tween 20 under the controlled conditions described above. After 7 days, the sensitivity of leaves to MV was judged visually by examining the chlorophyll contents of plant survivors.
