!~ABS~! Arabidopsis TOM1 (AtTOM1) and TOM2A (AtTOM2A) are integral membrane proteins genetically identified to be necessary for efficient intracellular multiplication of tobamoviruses. AtTOM1 interacts with the helicase domain polypeptide of tobamovirus‐encoded replication proteins and with AtTOM2A, suggesting that both AtTOM1 and AtTOM2A are integral components of the tobamovirus replication complex. We show here that AtTOM1 and AtTOM2A proteins tagged with green fluorescent protein (GFP) are targeted to the vacuolar membrane (tonoplast)‐like structures in plant cells. In subcellular fractionation analyses, GFP–AtTOM2A, AtTOM2A and its tobacco homolog NtTOM2A were predominantly fractionated to low‐density tonoplast‐rich fractions, whereas AtTOM1–GFP, AtTOM1 and its tobacco homolog NtTOM1 were distributed mainly into the tonoplast‐rich fractions and partially into higher‐buoyant‐density fractions containing membranes from several other organelles. The tobamovirus‐encoded replication proteins were co‐fractionated with both NtTOM1 and viral RNA‐dependent RNA polymerase activity. The replication proteins were also found in the fractions containing non‐membrane‐bound proteins, but neither NtTOM1 nor the polymerase activity was detected there. These observations suggest that the formation of tobamoviral RNA replication complex occurs on TOM1‐containing membranes and is facilitated by TOM2A.
!~RES~! To study the intracellular localization of TOM1 and TOM2A in living cells, we used green fluorescent protein (GFP) as a reporter. GFP was fused in frame to either the N‐ or C‐termini of AtTOM1 and AtTOM2A. The resulting constructs, GFP–AtTOM1, AtTOM1–GFP, GFP–AtTOM2A, and AtTOM2A–GFP, were expressed transiently in epidermal cells of A.thaliana leaves by microprojectile bombardment. The GFP fluorescence in the cells was analyzed under a confocal laser scanning microscope. FIG-REF shows a representative image of an epidermal cell transiently expressing free GFP. In addition to its preferential accumulation inside the nucleus, GFP fluorescence was observed in the area lining the plasma membrane. The vacuoles of mature leaf epidermal cells generally occupy most of the intracellular space and press the cytoplasm against the plasma membrane. Therefore the observed fluorescence lining the plasma membrane is likely to represent cytoplasmic localization. Of the two GFP‐fused AtTOM1 constructs, only AtTOM1–GFP successfully showed the GFP fluorescence (FIG-REF; data not shown). The fluorescence was found in the area lining the plasma membrane but not in the nucleus. However, it is difficult to specify whether the observed fluorescence is derived from the cytoplasm, tonoplast, plasma membrane or other organelles. Essentially the same fluorescent pattern was observed in cells transiently expressing either GFP–AtTOM2A or AtTOM2A–GFP (FIG-REF; data not shown). AtTOM2A is predicted to possess a putative farnesylation signal (CITATION). This signal functions only at the C‐terminus of a protein, so that GFP–AtTOM2A but not AtTOM2A–GFP should preserve the functional signal. Considering the possible importance of AtTOM2A farnesylation, GFP–AtTOM2A was used for further analyses. The distribution patterns of AtTOM1–GFP and GFP–AtTOM2A in epidermal cells of Nicotiana benthamiana and N.tabacum were the same as in A.thaliana cells when transiently expressed (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Nicotiana tabacum BY‐2 suspension‐cultured cells are known to have relatively undeveloped vacuoles compared with mature leaf epidermal cells. Owing to the difficulty in determining the subcellular localization of AtTOM1 and AtTOM2A in epidermal cells, we used BY‐2 cells for further investigation. When BY‐2 cells stably expressing AtTOM1–GFP and GFP–AtTOM2A were analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy, strikingly clear images were obtained compared with those of leaf epidermal cells. In cells expressing AtTOM1–GFP (FIG-REF) and GFP–AtTOM2A (FIG-REF), the GFP fluorescence was targeted to the intracellular membranes of round‐shaped structures. These structures were indistinguishable from the fluorescent membrane structures observed in BY‐2 cells transiently expressing the GFP‐fused AtTOM proteins obtained by microprojectile bombardment (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To identify the observed membrane structures, we analyzed transgenic BY‐2 cells stably expressing GFP‐tagged in vivo markers for several major organelles, including a tonoplast protein GFP–VM23 (CITATION; T.Tsuchiya, S.Suga and M.Maeshima, unpublished data), a Golgi membrane protein GmMan1–GFP (CITATION), a plasma membrane protein GFP–PAQ1 (CITATION; T.Tsuchiya, S.Suga and M.Maeshima, unpublished data) and an ER‐localized GFP marker protein mGFP5ER (CITATION). It was found that the round‐shaped membrane structures shown in the cells expressing AtTOM1–GFP and GFP–AtTOM2A have a strong resemblance to those observed for GFP–VM23 (FIG-REF). Such structures did not appear in cells expressing GmMan1–GFP (FIG-REF), GFP–PAQ1 (FIG-REF) or mGFP5ER (FIG-REF). Furthermore, cells expressing the GFP‐tagged AtTOM proteins did not show the ER‐like reticulate structures, the Golgi‐like fluorescent spots or a fluorescent line observed between two neighboring GFP–PAQ1‐expressing cells. The vital membrane stain FM4‐64, which is known as the endocytic tracer, visualizes the vacuolar membranes in yeast (CITATION) and plant cells (CITATION; CITATION). In order to verify that AtTOM1–GFP and GFP–AtTOM2A reside on the tonoplast, the transgenic BY‐2 cells were pulse‐labeled with FM4‐64. As shown in FIG-REF and FIG-REF, FM4‐64 first labeled the plasma membranes (red signals), which did not overlap the membrane structures visualized by the GFP‐fused TOM proteins or the tonoplast marker GFP–VM23 (green signals). Approximately 10 h after labeling, the fluorescence of FM4‐64 transported to the tonoplasts by endocytosis overlapped perfectly with the GFP fluorescence in cells expressing AtTOM1–GFP (FIG-REF) and GFP–AtTOM2A (FIG-REF). The complete overlap of the signals of FM4‐64 and GFP–VM23 (FIG-REF) confirmed the tonoplast localization of FM4‐64. These observations clearly demonstrated that AtTOM1–GFP and GFP–AtTOM2A are both localized mainly to the tonoplasts. This also implies that the fluorescent structures observed in leaf epidermal cells expressing the GFP‐fused TOM proteins (see FIG-REF and FIG-REF) represent the tonoplasts rather than the plasma membranes or appressed cytoplasm. [[FIGURE]] For further investigation of the localization of the TOM proteins, we employed membrane flotation analysis using equilibrium iodixanol density‐gradient centrifugation. Through iodixanol gradients, membranes and membrane‐associated proteins of different intracellular compartments are finely separated according to their buoyant density, as previously reported (see, for example, CITATION; CITATION). First, we analyzed the distribution of the GFP‐fused AtTOM proteins and tobacco TOM homologs, NtTOM1 and NtTOM2A, in the gradients to confirm that the localization of the GFP fusions shown by confocal microscopy reflects that of the non‐tagged authentic TOM proteins. The transgenic BY‐2 cells expressing AtTOM1–GFP or GFP–AtTOM2A and the non‐transgenic BY‐2 cells were disrupted and centrifuged at a low speed to pellet and remove cell debris. The lysates were loaded into the bottom of the gradients and centrifuged at 114 000 g for 16 h. The gradients were then fractionated and analyzed by immunoblotting. An antibody against GFP was used to detect AtTOM1–GFP and GFP–AtTOM2A. NtTOM1 and NtTOM2A were detected using antisera against AtTOM1 and AtTOM2A, respectively, and the fractionation patterns were compared. FIG-REF and FIG-REF illustrates representative fractionation patterns of AtTOM1–GFP and NtTOM1, respectively. The anti‐GFP antibody detected bands migrating around a position corresponding to a molecular mass of 43 kDa, which was smaller than the expected value (∼50 kDa). These bands were also detected by anti‐AtTOM1 antiserum (data not shown). Both AtTOM1–GFP and NtTOM1 were detected as double bands, suggesting that TOM1 may undergo modifications. The fractionation pattern of AtTOM1–GFP was similar to that of NtTOM1. Both proteins predominantly floated to the top fraction of the gradient (fraction 1, referred to as Fraction T), while they were also detected in fractions 2–15 with relatively strong signals in the middle part of the gradient (fractions 9–11, referred to as Fraction M). The bands were almost undetectable in the bottom part where the cell lysates were originally loaded (fractions 16–18, referred to as Fraction L). Fraction L contains most of the cytoplasmic non‐membrane‐bound proteins (data not shown), indicating that TOM1 is exclusively a membrane‐bound protein. [[FIGURE]] The fractionation patterns of GFP–AtTOM2A and NtTOM2A are shown in FIG-REF and FIG-REF, respectively. Both proteins showed strong signals in Fraction T. They were weakly detected in all other membrane fractions (fractions 2–15) when overexposed (data not shown) but were absent in Fraction L, again indicating that they were completely membrane‐bound. In GFP–AtTOM2A, the size of the fusion protein detected by the anti‐GFP antibody (∼34 kDa) was smaller than the expected value (∼50 kDa). Nevertheless, the fractionation pattern resembled that of NtTOM2A, indicating that cleavage of GFP–AtTOM2A, if it occurred, did not affect its localization. Similar distribution profiles between AtTOM1–GFP and NtTOM1 and between GFP–AtTOM2A and NtTOM2A suggest that tagging with the GFP reporter did not alter the subcellular localization of AtTOM1 and AtTOM2A. In addition, these results indicate that TOM1 and TOM2A are mainly associated with the membranes that floated to the top part of the iodixanol gradients, while TOM1 is also localized to the membranes contained in Fraction M. Next, fractionation patterns of marker proteins for the tonoplasts, the ER, and the Golgi and plasma membranes were analyzed. As illustrated in FIG-REF and FIG-REF, two typical tonoplast proteins, H+‐translocating inorganic pyrophosphatase (V‐PPase) and GFP‐tagged VM23 (see FIG-REF), were mainly detected in Fraction T. Thus, both TOM1 and TOM2A are predominantly distributed to the tonoplast‐rich fractions. On the other hand, an ER membrane protein Sec61p was found to be fractionated mainly to Fraction M (FIG-REF), although it was faintly detected in Fraction T when overexposed (data not shown). Similarly, the ER marker protein mGFP5ER (see FIG-REF) was also predominantly fractionated into Fraction M (FIG-REF). This lumenal soluble protein was also detected in Fraction L, probably due to a leak upon disruption of the ER membranes. The fractionation pattern of the Golgi marker GmMan1–GFP (see FIG-REF) is shown in FIG-REF. The anti‐GFP antibody detected two bands around the position of the expected molecular mass, but both bands showed a similar fractionation profile. They were predominantly found in Fraction M, although they were also weakly detected in Fraction T. The overall fractionation pattern of the Golgi membranes was found to be similar to that of the ER membranes. The plasma membrane marker GFP–PAQ1 (see FIG-REF) was distributed in a wide range of the membrane fractions and showed relatively strong signals in Fractions T and M (FIG-REF). Taken together, Fraction T, where both TOM1 and TOM2A were mainly detected, was abundant in the tonoplasts, while Fraction M, in which TOM1 but not TOM2A was detected at a significant level, contained membranes from several different organelles. To rule out the possibility that the buoyant densities of intracellular membranes in BY‐2 cells differ from those in A.thaliana cells, we examined the fractionation patterns of AtTOM1, AtTOM2A, V‐PPase and Sec61p using A.thaliana Col‐0 suspension‐cultured cells. The fractionation patterns of these proteins were identical with their respective patterns obtained using BY‐2 cells (data not shown). All these findings suggest that both NtTOM1 (AtTOM1) and NtTOM2A (AtTOM2A) are localized predominantly to the tonoplasts. This is consistent with the confocal images illustrating the subcellular localization of AtTOM1–GFP and GFP–AtTOM2A (see FIG-REF and FIG-REF). The TOM1‐bearing membrane(s) in Fraction M remains to be determined. Previously, we have detected the interaction between membrane‐associated AtTOM1 and the helicase domain polypeptides of the 130K/180K proteins of two tobamoviruses, TMV‐Cg and TMV‐L, using the yeast Sos recruitment system (CITATION, CITATION). Recently, we have found that AtTOM2A interacts with AtTOM1 in yeast split ubiquitin system (CITATION). Based on these observations, we have proposed that the TOM proteins and tobamovirus 130K/180K proteins are integral parts of the tobamoviral RNA replication complex on membranes. To test this possibility, we investigated subcellular distribution of the 130K/180K proteins of TMV‐L and compared their localization with that of the TOM proteins. Protoplasts isolated from BY‐2 cells were inoculated with TMV‐L RNA. Cells at 6 h post‐inoculation (h.p.i.) were disrupted and subjected to iodixanol gradient flotation analysis. The antibody against the helicase domain polypeptide of TMV‐L was used to detect both 130K and 180K proteins. In mock‐inoculated protoplasts (FIG-REF), Sec61p, V‐PPase, NtTOM1 and NtTOM2A showed similar fractionation patterns to those described for BY‐2 cells (see FIG-REF). In TMV‐L‐inoculated protoplasts, two different types of fractionation patterns were obtained. Representative patterns of four out of seven independent inoculations are shown in FIG-REF (‘Infect 1’), while those of the other three inoculations are shown in FIG-REF (‘Infect 2’). [[FIGURE]] In ‘Infect 1’, the patterns of Sec61p, V‐PPase and the TOM proteins were similar to those in mock‐inoculated protoplasts. While most of the 130K/180K proteins of TMV‐L remained in Fraction L, they also floated up to the membrane fractions (fractions 1–15). Among these fractions, strong signals of the 130K/180K proteins were detected in Fractions T and M, resembling the fractionation pattern of NtTOM1. In ‘Infect 2’, distinctive fractionation patterns of NtTOM1, NtTOM2A, V‐PPase and the 130K/180K proteins were observed (FIG-REF). In addition to the signals observed in ‘Infect 1’, strong signals for NtTOM1, NtTOM2A and V‐PPase, but not Sec61p, were detected in fractions 4 and 5. Since these proteins were not detected, or detected at only a very low level, in the corresponding fractions of mock‐inoculated protoplasts, it appeared that the buoyant density of part of the tonoplasts was altered upon infection. Remarkably, relatively large amounts of the 130K/180K proteins were also detected in fractions 4 and 5, indicating that the 130K/180K proteins are tethered to the tonoplast‐derived membranes found in these fractions. We found that the membrane‐associated 130K/180K proteins of TMV‐L were abundant in Fractions T and M. In addition, large amounts of the 130K/180K proteins also existed in Fraction L, where non‐membrane‐bound proteins remained. To investigate whether each fraction contained the functional TMV‐L replication complex to synthesize the viral RNA, the fractions shown in FIG-REF (‘Infect 1’) and C (‘Infect 2’) were subjected to an RdRp assay to detect the incorporation of ribonucleotides into the double‐stranded replicative form (RF) RNA of TMV‐L. The bottom panels (marked ‘RdRp’) of FIG-REF and FIG-REF show the 32P‐labeled RF RNA produced in each fraction. No RF RNA bands were detected in mock‐inoculated protoplast samples (data not shown), indicating that the bands were TMV‐L infection‐specific. In both ‘Infect 1’ and ‘Infect 2’, the viral RdRp activity (represented by the amount of [32P]RF RNA) was mainly present in Fractions T and M. Furthermore, fractions 4 and 5 in ‘Infect 2’ showed higher RdRp activity than those in ‘Infect 1’ (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). The RdRp activity was not detected in Fraction L in either case despite the abundance of the 130K/180K proteins. The quantification of the signal intensity of the RF RNA and the protein bands clearly demonstrated that the peaks for the viral RdRp activity, NtTOM1 and the membrane‐associated 130K replication protein were located in the same fractions (see the quantification graphs in FIG-REF and FIG-REF). These observations suggest that the active tobamovirus replication complex is localized on the TOM1‐bearing membranes.
!~MM~! Plasmid psmRS‐GFP harboring modified GFP sequence (CITATION) was utilized to generate plasmids to express GFP‐tagged AtTOM1 and AtTOM2A derivatives. A BamHI restriction enzyme recognition site existing upstream of the start codon of the GFP open reading frame (ORF) was used to construct pAtTOM1‐GFP and pAtTOM2A‐GFP. Because of the presence of a BamHI site in the coding sequence of the AtTOM1 gene, the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to introduce a BglII site upstream of the start codon and to replace the stop codon with a linker sequence encoding four glycine codons followed by a BglII site. The resulting PCR products were digested with BglII and inserted into BamHI‐digested psmRS‐GFP to yield pAtTOM1‐GFP. The sequence containing the AtTOM2A ORF was amplified by PCR using primers designed to create the BamHI site upstream of the start codon and to replace the stop codon with a sequence containing the BamHI site. The PCR product was digested with BamHI and cloned into psmRS‐GFP, yielding pAtTOM2A‐GFP. To facilitate the construction of pGFP‐AtTOM1 and pGFP‐AtTOM2A, plasmid psmRS‐GFP‐NoStop was generated as follows. The 3′‐terminal region of the GFP ORF was amplified by PCR using primers sRGFP314F (5′‐CTCTTTCAAGGACGACGGGAAC‐3′) and sRGFPG4ScR (5′‐ATGAGCTCTCCACCTCCACCTTTGTATAGTTCATCCATC‐3′) to remove the termination codon of the GFP sequence and to introduce four glycine codons immediately downstream of the GFP coding sequence and upstream of the SacI site. The PCR product was cloned back into psmRS‐GFP using the ClaI and SacI sites, yielding psmRS‐GFP‐NoStop. AtTOM1 and AtTOM2A sequences were amplified by PCR using primers containing the sequence of SacI site immediately upstream of the start codons and downstream of the stop codons of AtTOM1 and AtTOM2A ORFs. The SacI‐digested PCR products were cloned into psmRS‐GFP‐NoStop to generate pGFP‐AtTOM1 and pGFP‐AtTOM2A. Tobacco BY‐2 (N.tabacum cv. Bright Yellow 2) cells were grown in a BY‐2 growth medium (modified Linsmaier and Skoog medium; CITATION) at 26°C in the dark with constant shaking. Cells were maintained by subculturing into fresh medium at a dilution of ∼1:65 every 7 days. Cells at 3 days after subculturing were used for experiments. BY‐2 cells stably expressing a Golgi marker, GmMan1–GFP, were kindly provided by Andreas Nebenführ (CITATION). To generate the transgenic BY‐2 cell lines expressing AtTOM1–GFP and GFP–AtTOM2A, the expression cassettes of pAtTOM1‐GFP and pGFP‐AtTOM2A were cloned into pBI121 (Clontech) using the HindIII and EcoRI sites. The resulting constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain EHA105; CITATION) by electroporation. The transformed bacteria were co‐cultivated with BY‐2 cells for 2 days, and the transgenic BY‐2 cells were selected on BY‐2 agar medium containing 200 mg/l kanamycin and 500 mg/l carbenicillin. The transgenic BY‐2 cells expressing GFP‐tagged VM23 and PAQ1 were generated by Agrobacterium‐mediated transformation with plasmids pMAT‐GV and pMAT‐GP, respectively (T.Tsuchiya, S.Suga and M.Maeshima, unpublished). The BamHI–SacI fragment harboring the GFP gene fused with the ER‐targeting and the ER‐retention signal sequences was obtained from plasmid pBImGFP5ER (CITATION). This gene cassette was cloned between the BamHI and SacI sites of the pBI121 vector, and the resulting construct was used to generate the transgenic BY‐2 expressing mGFP5ER. Microprojectile bombardment was performed using a Biolistic PDS‐1000/He Particle Delivery System (Bio‐Rad), essentially according to the manufacturer's instructions. Fully expanded leaves of A.thaliana (L.) Heynh. ecotype Columbia (Col‐0), N.benthamiana and N.tabacum (cv Xanthi nn), ∼4 weeks old, were harvested, placed on 0.4% agar plates and bombarded with a rupture‐disk pressure of 900 p.s.i. at a target distance of ∼10 cm. In bombardment of BY‐2 cells, the method described by CITATION was used with some modifications. Briefly, BY‐2 cells (3 days after subculturing) were spread on filter papers soaked with the fresh BY‐2 growth medium in Petri dishes. After incubation for 1 h, the cells were bombarded with a rupture‐disk pressure of 450 p.s.i. at a target distance of ∼10 cm. For each bombardment, 0.6 mg of gold particles (1 μm in diameter) coated with 1 μg of plasmid DNA were used. Bombarded leaves and BY‐2 cells were incubated at 23°C in the dark. At 18 to 24 h after bombardment, they were analyzed for the GFP fluorescence with the 488 nm argon laser of a confocal laser scanning microscope LSM410 (Carl Zeiss), and the acquired images were processed using Photoshop 5.0 (Adobe). Transgenic BY‐2 cells (3 days after subculturing) were incubated with 16 μM FM4‐64 (Molecular Probes; 2 mM stock solution in dimethylsulfoxide) in the BY‐2 growth medium for 5 min, washed twice with the fresh medium and incubated for ∼20 min or 10 h. The fluorescence of FM4‐64 and GFP in the cells was analyzed with a 543 nm helium‐neon laser and a 488 nm argon laser, respectively, using a confocal laser scanning microscope LSM410 (Carl Zeiss). The acquired images were processed using Photoshop 5.0 (Adobe). Protoplasts were prepared from BY‐2 cells and inoculated with TMV‐L RNA as described previously (CITATION). BY‐2 cells or protoplasts were collected and washed twice with 0.4 M mannitol. The cells were suspended in Homogenization Buffer (0.25 M sucrose, 1 mM EDTA, 10 mM HEPES‐NaOH pH 7.4 and 10 mM DTT) containing protease inhibitor (one tablet of Complete™, Mini, EDTA‐free, Roche Diagnostics, per 10 ml). BY‐2 cells and protoplasts were homogenized using a Potter–Elvehjem (glass) homogenizer (15 strokes at ∼750 r.p.m.) and a tight‐fitting Dounce homogenizer (50 strokes), respectively. The lysates were centrifuged at 400 g for 10 min in a microcentrifuge to pellet and remove the nuclei and cell debris. The lysates were immediately used for the following fractionation analysis or stored at −80°C. Iodixanol (OptiPrep™, Nycomed, Roskilde, Denmark) density gradient analysis was performed essentially according to the manufacturer's instructions. A working solution of 50% iodixanol (5:1 v/v mixture of OptiPrep™ and 0.25 M sucrose, 6 mM EDTA and 60 mM HEPES–NaOH pH 7.4) was diluted with the Homogenization Buffer to prepare a 30% iodixanol solution. Iodixanol continuous gradients were formed with 4.3 ml each of 0% (the Homogenization Buffer containing the protease inhibitor) and 30% iodixanol solutions in open‐top centrifuge tubes (Seton Scientific; Part No. 7031) using Gradient Mate™ (BioComp Instruments Inc.) at 80°C and 20 r.p.m. for 2 min. Then, 1.2 ml of the cell lysates was mixed with 2.8 ml of the 50% iodixanol working solution to adjust the iodixanol concentration to 35% (v/v) and loaded into the bottom of the gradients, followed by ultracentrifugation in a Beckman SW40Ti rotor (114 000 g for 16 h at 4°C). The gradients were fractionated into 18 fractions of 570 μl each from the top using a piston gradient fractionator (BioComp Instruments Inc.). Fractions were stored at −80°C or analyzed immediately by standard SDS–PAGE and immunoblot analysis. Quantification of protein band intensities was performed using ImageJ (NIH; http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). The TOM1‐specific rabbit antiserum was produced by injecting rabbits with a synthetic polypeptide corresponding to amino acids 203–220 of AtTOM1 (CRFPIESKGRRKKLHEVGS; the N‐terminal extra cystein residue was added to facilitate conjugation) conjugated with keyhole limpet hemocyanin. Complementary DNA (cDNA) fragments of AtTOM2A mRNA corresponding to the C‐terminal 97 amino acids and TMV‐L RNA corresponding to amino acids 647–1116 of the 130K protein were cloned into pET16b and pET32c(+) (Novagen), respectively. The fusion polypeptides containing regions encoded by the cDNA fragments were expressed in Escherichia coli strains BL21 pLysS and Origami (DE3) pLysS (Novagen), respectively, by induction with isopropyl‐β‐d‐thiogalactopyranoside. The expressed polypeptides carrying His6 tags were purified using Ni‐NTA Superflow resin (Qiagen) and were used to immunize rabbits for the production of antisera against AtTOM2A and the TMV‐L replication proteins. Rabbit polyclonal anti‐GFP antibody was purchased from Chemicon International Inc. Rabbit polyclonal antibody against vacuolar H+‐PPase (CITATION; CITATION) was kindly provided by Masayoshi Maeshima. Rabbit polyclonal antibody against plant Sec61p, which was synthesized against a synthetic peptide corresponding to the N‐terminal region of the Sec61p homologs of several plant species and recognizes an ∼40 kDa ER protein of various plant species (K.Matsuoka, unpublished result) was kindly provided by Ken Matsuoka (RIKEN, Yokohama, Japan). An anti‐rabbit secondary antibody conjugated with horseradish peroxidase was purchased from Amersham Pharmacia Biotech. Forty microliters each of iodixanol gradient fractions were directly used for the assay. RdRp reaction mixture (50 μl) contained 1 mM ATP, 1 mM GTP, 1 mM UTP, 0.025 mM CTP, 20 μCi [α‐32P]CTP, 10 mM DTT, 5 μg actinomycin D, 10 mM Mg(OAc)2 and 40 U RNasin (Promega). The reaction was performed at 28°C for 1 h. The RNA products were purified by phenol extraction and ethanol precipitation. The RNA samples were treated with S1 nuclease at 37°C for 20 min, purified again as above and then analyzed by 8 M urea–2.4% PAGE. The 32P signals were detected and quantified using a Bio Imaging Analyzer (BAS 1000, Fuji Photo Film).
