!~ABS~! The tom2‐1 mutation of Arabidopsis thaliana reduces the efficiency of intracellular multiplication of tobamoviruses. The tom2‐1 mutant was derived from fast‐neutron‐irradiated seeds, and the original mutant line also carries ttm1, a dominant modifier that increases tobamovirus multiplication efficiency in a tobamovirus‐strain‐specific manner in the tom2‐1 genetic background. Here, we show that the tom2‐1 mutation involved a deletion of ∼20 kb in the nuclear genome. The deleted region included two genes named TOM2A and TOM2B that were both associated with the tom2‐1 phenotype, whereas ttm1 corresponded to the translocation of part of the deleted region that included intact TOM2B but not TOM2A. TOM2A encodes a 280 amino acid putative four‐pass transmembrane protein with a C‐terminal farnesylation signal, while TOM2B encodes a 122 amino acid basic protein. The split‐ubiquitin assay demonstrated an interaction of TOM2A both with itself and with TOM1, an integral membrane protein of A.thaliana presumed to be an essential constituent of tobamovirus replication complex. The data presented here suggest that TOM2A is also an integral part of the tobamovirus replication complex.
!~RES~! We have previously reported the isolation of the A.thaliana YS241 mutant strain, in which the intracellular multiplication of tobamoviruses is reduced to low levels, from an M2 population derived from fast‐neutron‐irradiated seeds (CITATION). Genetic analyses suggested that YS241 harbored one major recessive mutation, tom2‐1, which reduces the efficiency of tobamovirus multiplication, and a tobamovirus‐strain‐specific dominant modifier, ttm1, which increases the efficiency of tobamovirus multiplication in a tom2‐1 background. In tom2‐1 mutant plants that do not carry the ttm1 mutation (representative plant line B1‐113), the multiplication of both TMV‐Cg, a crucifer‐infecting tobamovirus, and TMV‐L, a tomato mosaic tobamovirus, is severely affected. In contrast, TMV‐Cg multiplication in tom2‐1 mutant plants carrying the ttm1 mutation (representative plant line B1‐234) is slightly higher than that in B1‐113 but lower than that in wild‐type plants, and the level of TMV‐L multiplication is similar to that in wild‐type plants. Considering these observations, it was proposed that a single gene ‘TOM2’ was deleted in the tom2‐1 plants (B1‐113) and that ttm1 was a translocated and modified form of the TOM2 gene (CITATION). According to this hypothesis, B1‐113 should carry a chromosomal deletion that includes the TOM2 gene and B1‐234 should carry this deleted region at least partly. Based on the above prediction, we searched for a deletion in the B1‐113 genome by the representational difference analysis (RDA) (CITATION) using HindIII‐digested genomic DNA from the parental wild‐type plants as a ‘tester’ and HindIII‐digested genomic DNA from B1‐113 as a ‘driver’. After three rounds of subtraction and amplification by the PCR, a 570 bp DNA fragment (hereafter referred to as the RDA fragment) was obtained. Cloning and sequencing analysis revealed that the sequence of the RDA fragment represented a region of chromosome 1. PCR amplification analysis of this fragment showed that the region corresponding to the RDA fragment was present in both the wild‐type and B1‐234 genomes, but was absent in the B1‐113 genome. On the other hand, the tom2‐1 mutation was previously mapped on chromosome 1 between restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) markers m253 and m299 (CITATION). Here, a contig encompassing m253 was constructed using yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) clones, and further RFLP mapping was performed with YAC end probes. This analysis suggested that the mutation is located between DNA markers CIC10D4R and yUP19F5R (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). As expected, the RDA fragment hybridized with the YAC clones CIC3H11, yUP19F5 and CIC10D4 but not with CIC7G6 (FIG-REF), suggesting that the RDA fragment is tightly linked to the tom2‐1 mutation. [[FIGURE]] To determine the status of the genomic DNA surrounding the RDA fragment in B1‐113 and B1‐234, Southern blot hybridization analysis was performed using DNA probes located near the RDA fragment (Y1–Y6 in FIG-REF). When Y1 or Y6 were used as probes, restriction fragments of the same size were detected in the genomic DNA from wild‐type, B1‐113 and B1‐234 plants (FIG-REF). The Y3 and Y4 probes each detected restriction fragments of the same size in genomic DNA from wild‐type and B1‐234 plants, but failed to do so in the genomic DNA from B1‐113 plants (FIG-REF). The Y2 probe detected the expected 5.5 kb DNA fragment in the genomic DNA from wild‐type plants, which was not detected in B1‐113 or B1‐234. Instead, the Y2 probe detected a band of ∼4.0 kb in the genomic DNA from both B1‐113 and B1‐234 (marked by a filled arrowhead in FIG-REF). In the genomic DNA from B1‐234, the Y2 probe also detected one more band of ∼3.9 kb (marked by an open arrowhead in FIG-REF). The Y5 probe detected multiple bands, suggesting that it contained a repetitive sequence, although the expected 3.1 kb DNA fragment was detected in the genomic DNA from wild‐type plants and not in B1‐113 or B1‐234. Instead, the Y5 probe detected a band of ∼1.3 kb in the genomic DNA from both B1‐113 and B1‐234 (marked by a filled arrowhead in FIG-REF). The Y5 probe also detected one more band of ∼4.3 kb in the genomic DNA from B1‐234 (marked by an open arrowhead in FIG-REF). These results suggested that a region containing Y3 and Y4 was deleted in the B1‐113 genome and was translocated in the B1‐234 genome, and that the borders of the deletion and translocation are located within the regions covered by Y2 and Y5. To analyze the nature of the translocation further, the presence of DNA sequences within the possible deleted/translocated region in the B1‐234 genome was extensively examined by PCR amplification. This analysis, together with the sequencing analysis of the amplified DNA segments from the B1‐234 genome, indicated that a region of 18 kbp was translocated in B1‐234 and that this region did not carry rearrangements or mutations (Y.Tsujimoto, R.Ohsawa, S.Naito and M.Ishikawa, unpublished results). The deleted region detected in the genome of B1‐113 contained several putative genes. To identify which gene within this region is involved in the multiplication of tobamoviruses, we transformed tom2‐1 (B1‐113) plants with wild‐type genomic DNA fragments indicated in FIG-REF and examined the multiplication of TMV‐Cg and TMV‐L in the T2 plants (for T2 plants, see Materials and methods). Among these plants, transformants with the clones 3, 280 and 472 showed a level of CP accumulation of both TMV‐Cg and TMV‐L similar to that in the wild‐type plants (for clone 472 see FIG-REF). When protoplasts isolated from 472‐transformed B1‐113 plants were inoculated with TMV‐Cg or TMV‐L, accumulation of virus‐related RNAs were similar to that in wild‐type protoplasts, although the accumulation level was slightly lower than in wild‐type protoplasts for TMV‐L (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Transformants with clones 278, 273, 511 and 1034 showed a level of CP accumulation of both TMV‐Cg and TMV‐L similar to that in B1‐234 (for clone 511, see FIG-REF). When protoplasts isolated from 511‐transformed B1‐113 plants were inoculated with TMV‐L, the accumulation of viral RNAs was similar to that in wild‐type and B1‐234 protoplasts (FIG-REF). When protoplasts isolated from 511‐transformed B1‐113 plants were inoculated with TMV‐Cg, the accumulation of viral RNAs was only slightly higher than that in B1‐113 protoplasts and similar to that in B1‐234 protoplasts (FIG-REF). Transformants with the clones 427, 413, 26, 670 and 672 showed a level of CP accumulation of both TMV‐Cg and TMV‐L similar to that in B1‐113 (data not shown). These results suggest that two separate genes present within clones 472 and 1034 are involved in tobamovirus multiplication. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To identify these genes, reverse‐transcription PCR and 5′‐ and 3′‐rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) was carried out. These analyses identified a single transcription unit within each region. The 1293 nucleotide mRNA from the region corresponding to clone 472 consisted of six exons (FIG-REF) and contained an open reading frame (ORF) encoding a 280 amino acid polypeptide (FIG-REF). We refer to this gene as TOM2A. PCR amplification of a genomic DNA region containing the truncated point of the TOM2A gene in B1‐113 and B1‐234 (CITATION) and subsequent sequencing analysis indicated that the TOM2A gene is truncated at the position corresponding to the 141st amino acid residue in the mutants (Y.Tsujimoto, S.Naito and M.Ishikawa, unpublished results). Since a band of TOM2A mRNA could not be detected by northern blot hybridization in B1‐113 and B1‐234 (data not shown), it is likely that the function of the TOM2A gene is lost completely in the tom2‐1 mutant lines. Although abnormal TOM2A mRNA in the mutants is likely to be synthesized, it would be degraded by mRNA surveillance systems (reviewed in CITATION). A 488 nucleotide mRNA consisting of four exons (FIG-REF) and containing an ORF encoding a 122‐amino‐acid polypeptide (FIG-REF) was identified from the region corresponding to clone 1034. This gene, referred to as TOM2B, was completely deleted in B1‐113, but existed intact in B1‐234. The tom2‐1 mutation corresponds to the simultaneous defect of TOM2A and TOM2B, whereas ttm1 is the translocated form of TOM2B. [[FIGURE]] The deduced amino acid sequence of TOM2A contained several hydrophobic regions (FIG-REF and FIG-REF) and was predicted by the SOSUI program (CITATION) to be a four‐pass transmembrane protein with both termini cytoplasmic. The Sos recruitment assay was utilized to test this possibility. This system is based on the observation that the S.cerevisiae cdc25‐2 mutation is complemented by the expression of a fragment of human Sos protein (5′Sos) only if the 5′Sos is recruited to the cytoplasmic side of the plasma membrane (CITATION). Confirming the prediction that both the N‐ and C‐termini of TOM2A are cytoplasmic, we found that the S.cerevisiae cdc25‐2 mutation was complemented by the expression of both N‐ and C‐terminal fusion proteins of TOM2A with the 5′Sos polypeptide (data not shown). The C‐terminus of TOM2A contained a ‘CaaX’ farnesylation signal (CITATION). TOM2A also contained multiple ‘CxxC’ sequences in regions predicted to be in or close to the cytoplasm (amino acids 3–6, 6–9, 97–100 and 110–113, FIG-REF). The CxxC motif is implicated in redox reactions (CITATION) and the N‐terminal MxCxxC sequence is also implicated in metal‐binding ability (CITATION). Sequence comparisons carried out using the BLAST program at NCBI (CITATION) revealed that neither TOM2A nor TOM2B share significant homology with any genes of known function. We have previously demonstrated, using the Sos recruitment assay, that TOM1 interacts with the helicase domain polypeptide of tobamovirus replication proteins (CITATION). No interaction could be detected between the TOM2A integral membrane protein and tobamovirus replication proteins in similar tests using the Sos recruitment system (M.Takahashi, T.Meshi, S.Naito and M.Ishikawa, unpublished results). Here, we examined the possibility that TOM2A functions through an interaction with TOM1 using the split‐ubiquitin system recently developed by CITATION that allows interactions between two membrane proteins to be examined in yeast. In the split‐ubiquitin system, the C‐terminal fragment of ubiquitin (Cub) is linked to a protein A‐LexA‐VP16 (PLV) reporter polypeptide and fused to the C‐terminal cytoplasmic tail of one of the membrane proteins (e.g. TOM1‐Cub‐PLV in FIG-REF). If expressed alone, the complete fusion protein remains attached to the membranes and the PLV reporter polypeptide cannot enter the nucleus to induce LexA‐VP16‐dependent transcription. If the membrane protein fused to Cub‐PLV interacts with another membrane protein fused to a mutant form of the ubiquitin N‐terminal fragment (NubG) (e.g. NubG‐TOM2A in FIG-REF), quasi‐native ubiquitin is reconstituted and recognized by ubiquitin‐specific proteases (UBPs). This results in the release of the PLV moiety from the membrane complex (as shown in FIG-REF), which is converted into β‐galactosidase activity in the yeast strain L40 that harbors a β‐galactosidase expression cassette driven by a LexA‐dependent promoter. If the membrane proteins fused to Cub‐PLV and NubG do not interact, the cleavage of Cub‐PLV does not occur even if the fusion proteins are present on the same membrane (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Because the C‐terminus of TOM1 and the N‐ and C‐termini of TOM2A were suggested to be cytoplasmic, gene cassettes were constructed to express TOM1 or TOM2A fused at their C‐termini with the Cub‐PLV module (TOM1‐Cub‐PLV and TOM2A‐Cub‐PLV; FIG-REF and FIG-REF). TOM1 was also separately fused at the C‐terminus with NubG (TOM1‐NubG; FIG-REF), whereas TOM2A was separately fused at the N‐ or C‐termini with NubG (NubG‐TOM2A and TOM2A‐NubG; FIG-REF). Similar control constructs were also generated using the wild‐type form of the ubiquitin N‐terminal fragment, NubI (referred to as TOM1‐NubI, NubI‐TOM2A and TOM2A‐NubI respectively). Unlike NubG, NubI is able to self‐associate with the Cub moiety when localized to the same membrane without requiring direct interaction between the respective membrane proteins (CITATION). One each of the above Cub‐PLV and NubG or NubI constructs were introduced into the yeast L40 strain in all possible combinations. High β‐galactosidase activity was observed in all the control experiments containing the NubI constructs (FIG-REF and FIG-REF), suggesting that these TOM2A and TOM1 fusion proteins were localized on the same membrane and that the Cub‐PLV and Nub moieties of the fusion proteins were at least partly exposed to the cytoplasm. Among the combinations for the NubG constructs, L40 co‐expressing NubG‐TOM2A and either TOM1‐Cub‐PLV (FIG-REF) or TOM2A‐Cub‐PLV (FIG-REF) showed β‐galactosidase activity significantly higher than that in L40 expressing the respective Cub‐PLV fusion protein alone. In contrast, L40 cells co‐expressing other combinations of Cub‐PLV and NubG constructs showed similar levels of β‐galactosidase activity to those in L40 harboring the corresponding Cub‐PLV construct alone (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Western blot analysis also showed that the accumulation level of cleaved PLV was higher in yeast co‐expressing NubG‐TOM2A and either TOM1‐Cub‐PLV (FIG-REF) or TOM2A‐Cub‐PLV (FIG-REF) than that in L40 expressing the respective Cub‐PLV fusion protein alone, consistent with the respective β‐galactosidase activities. Taken together, these results suggest that the TOM2A integral membrane protein can interact both with itself and with TOM1 (FIG-REF).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. ecotype Columbia carrying a gl1 mutation was used as the wild‐type strain. The mutant YS241 was described previously (CITATION). TMV‐Cg, a crucifer strain of tobamovirus (CITATION), TMV‐L, a tomato mosaic tobamovirus (CITATION), and TCV strain B, a member of the carmo‐like virus supergroup (CITATION), were used for inoculation. The conditions of plant growth and purification of virus particles and virion RNAs were as described previously (CITATION, CITATION). We have previously found that the tom2‐1 mutation is tightly linked to the RFLP marker m253 on chromosome 1 (CITATION). Therefore a YAC contig encompassing m253 was constructed (FIG-REF) and further RFLP mapping was performed using terminal regions of the insert DNA harbored by the YACs. YAC end probes were prepared by the thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR method (CITATION), and Southern hybridization was performed by using the Gene Images labeling and detection system (Amersham Pharmacia). RDA was carried out essentially as described previously (CITATION) using a GeneFisher PCR Subtraction System (Takara Syuzo, Tokyo, Japan). HindIII‐digested genomic DNA from wild‐type plants was used as a tester and HindIII‐digested genomic DNA from B1‐113 plants as a driver. Because the kit was originally constructed for the analysis of mammalian genomic DNA, the concentration of tester DNA in subtraction hybridization was reduced six‐fold in view of the genome size of A.thaliana. A contig was constructed using a P1 library (CITATION) covering a region of chromosome 1 between the DNA markers CIC10D4R and yUP19F5R (FIG-REF). One of the clones belonging to the P1 contig, N20L, hybridized with the RDA fragment and was subcloned in pCLD04541 (CITATION) to generate the T‐DNA clones shown in FIG-REF. Details of subcloning will be provided upon request. The T‐DNA clones were electroporated into Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1 (pGV2260 or pMP90), which was then used to transform A.thaliana plants by the vacuum infiltration (CITATION) or floral dip (CITATION) methods. Seeds harvested from the plants treated with A.tumefaciens were sown on agar plates containing 50 μg/ml kanamycin, and kanamycin‐resistant transformants (T1 plants) were selected. T1 plants were allowed to self‐pollinate to obtain T2 seeds. For each T‐DNA construct, six independent T1 plants were isolated and 10 T2 plants from each T1 line were analyzed. The tobamovirus multiplication phenotype was determined by inoculating the T2 plants with TMV‐Cg or TMV‐L and examining the respective CP accumulation in each plant by SDS–PAGE and Coomassie Blue staining (CITATION). Genomic DNA was also extracted from representative T2 plants by the cetyltrimethylammonium bromide method and the presence of transgenes was confirmed by PCR (CITATION). Preparation of protoplasts from homozygous T3 transgenic plants, inoculation of protoplasts with viral RNAs by electroporation and subsequent RNA analysis were carried out as described previously (CITATION). Total RNA was extracted from frozen plant tissues by using ISOGEN LS (Nippon Gene, Toyama, Japan) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The full‐length cDNA sequences of TOM2A and TOM2B (DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank accession Nos. AB085684 and AB085685, respectively) were identified by 5′‐and 3′‐RACE using a SMART PCR cDNA Synthesis kit (CLONTECH) and by reverse‐transcription PCR using a One Step PCR kit (Takara Syuzo, Tokyo, Japan). A 377 DNA sequencer (Applied Biosystems) and BigDye Terminator Sequencing kit (Perkin–Elmer) were used for sequencing. Plasmids pRS305(Δwbp1‐Cub‐PLV), pOST1‐NubG, pOST1‐NubI, pNubG‐ALG5 and pNubI‐ALG5 and the yeast strain L40 have been described by CITATION. pTN‐TOM1‐Cub‐PLV and pTN‐TOM2A‐Cub‐PLV were constructed by replacing the XhoI fragment of pRS305(Δwbp1‐Cub‐PLV) containing the Δwbp1 region with PCR‐amplified DNA fragments containing the TOM1 and TOM2A ORFs, respectively, under the control of the ADH1 promoter (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). These constructs contained an 11 amino acid linker (LESGGSTLSGG) between each TOM and the Cub ORFs. Nub‐TOM2A‐encoding DNA fragments (Nub fused to the N‐terminus) were obtained by the overlap‐extension PCR method (CITATION) using TOM2A cDNA and pNubG‐ALG5 or pNubI‐ALG5 as templates. These sequences contained a four‐amino‐acid linker (GGST) between the Nub and the TOM2A ORFs. pTN‐NubG‐TOM2A and pTN‐NubI‐TOM2A were then constructed by replacing the ClaI‐PstI fragment of pNubI‐ALG5 (containing the NubI‐ALG5 region) with the fragment encoding the NubI‐TOM2A and NubG‐TOM2A fusion proteins respectively (FIG-REF). To obtain the TOM‐Nub constructs (Nub fused to the C‐terminus), the ClaI–PstI digested pNubI‐ALG5 vector (NubI‐ALG5 removed) was ligated with a PCR‐amplified and ClaI–XhoI‐digested DNA fragment containing either TOM1 or TOM2A ORFs and a XhoI–PstI fragment containing either NubG (from pOST1‐NubG) or NubI ORFs (from pOST1‐NubI). The resulting plasmids pTN‐TOM1‐NubG and pTN‐TOM1‐NubI encoded the TOM1‐NubG and TOM1‐NubI fusion proteins, respectively, whereas pTN‐TOM2A‐NubG and pTN‐TOM2A‐NubI encoded the TOM2A‐NubG and TOM2A‐NubI fusion proteins, respectively (FIG-REF). These constructs contained a seven‐amino‐acid linker (LESGGST) between the TOM and the Nub ORFs. All Nub fusion protein genes were driven by the CUP1 promoter. L40 yeast was first transformed with Cub‐PLV plasmids (pTN‐TOM1‐Cub‐PLV or pTN‐TOM2A‐Cub‐PLV) linearized with ClaI to integrate into the leu2 locus and transformants with a single‐copy integration were selected for further transformation with Nub 2μ plasmids. Following the second transformation, yeast cells were grown at 30°C to OD600 of 0.5 to 1.0 in a defined synthetic glucose medium (CITATION) lacking appropriate amino acids in order to maintain the plasmids. Cells were harvested from 0.5 ml culture, washed, suspended in 100 μl of Z‐buffer (60 mM NaH2PO4, 40 mM NaH2PO4, 1 mM MgSO4, 10 mM KCl pH 7.0) and lysed by three freeze–thaw cycles in liquid nitrogen. The lysate was then mixed with 700 μl of Z‐buffer containing 0.27% 2‐mercaptoethanol and 160 μl of 4 mg/ml o‐nitrophenyl β‐d‐galactopyranoside in Z‐buffer, and incubated for 1–20 h at 30°C. The reaction was stopped by adding 400 μl of 1 M Na2CO3, and OD420 was measured after removal of cell debris by centrifugation. β‐galactosidase activity was calculated as described previously (CITATION). Protein samples for western blot analysis were prepared from yeast essentially as described previously (CITATION). Briefly, one OD600 unit of cells were suspended in 150 μl of 1.85 M NaOH and incubated on ice for 10 min. The same volume of 50% trichloroacetic acid was added and incubated on ice for 10 min. Protein was precipitated by centrifugation, suspended in 50 μl of SDS–PAGE sample buffer containing 8 M urea and 20 μl of 1 M Tris–HCl pH 8.0, and dissolved by incubation at 37°C for 1.5 h. Samples were centrifuged for 2 min and 0.5 μl of supernatant was used for 11% SDS–PAGE followed by western blot analysis. Membranes were probed with anti‐yeast Pgk‐mouse IgG as the primary antibody, followed by the detection of signals using anti‐rat IgG–rabbit IgG–horseradish peroxidase conjugate and the ECL system (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech).
