!~ABS~! AGAMOUS, a key player in floral morphogenesis, specifies reproductive organ identities and regulates the timely termination of stem cell fates in the floral meristem. Here, we report that strains carrying mutations in three genes, HUA1, HUA2, and HUA ENHANCER4 (HEN4), exhibit floral defects similar to those in agamous mutants: reproductive-to-perianth organ transformation and loss of floral determinacy. HEN4 codes for a K homology (KH) domain-containing, putative RNA binding protein that interacts with HUA1, a CCCH zinc finger RNA binding protein in the nucleus. We show that HUA1 binds AGAMOUS pre-mRNA in vitro and that HEN4, HUA1, and HUA2 act in floral morphogenesis by specifically promoting the processing of AGAMOUS pre-mRNA. Our studies underscore the importance of RNA processing in modulating plant development.
!~RES~! Two recessive mutations in HEN4, hen4-1 and hen4-2, caused stamen-to-petal transformation in the third whorl of hua1 hua2 flowers (for simplicity, we will be referring to hua1-1 and hua2-1 as hua1 and hua2, respectively). While wild-type and hua1 hua2 flowers had stamens in the third whorl CITATION , early-arising flowers in hua1 hua2 hen4-1 plants had petaloid stamens in the third whorl CITATION. Later-arising flowers in hua1 hua2 hen4-1 plants had six petals in the third whorl CITATION. hen4-2 appeared to cause more severe floral homeotic phenotypes than hen4-1. Nearly all hua1 hua2 hen4-2 flowers had six petals in the third whorl CITATION. Because both hen4-1 and hen4-2 were recessive and therefore likely reduce the gene function, we conclude that HEN4 acts in stamen identity specification in flower development. hen4 mutations (both hen4-1 and hen4-2 are referred to when the number is not specified) also caused floral determinacy defects. Although early-arising flowers in hua1 hua2 hen4 plants had gynoecia with two well-fused carpels topped by stigmatic papillae CITATION, later-arising flowers that constituted the majority of the flowers produced in these plants had enlarged, heart-shaped gynoecia in the fourth whorl CITATION. Additional floral organs were found in the gynoecia upon dissection, indicating loss of floral determinacy. Occasionally, flowers that resembled those of severe ag alleles (such as ag-1 or ag-3) with internal flowers were observed CITATION. Therefore, HEN4 acts in the proper termination of floral meristem activity during flower development. The stamen-to-petal transformation in hua1 hua2 hen4 flowers was further confirmed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Unlike stamen epidermal cells that are shaped like jigsaw puzzle pieces, the epidermal cells of hua1 hua2 hen4 third whorl organs resembled petal cells (data not shown), which are uniform in size and cone shaped CITATION. In addition, the stamen-to-petal transformation in hua1 hua2 hen4-2 flowers occurred early in development. By stage 7, stamen primordia in wild-type CITATION and hua1 hua2 flowers CITATION assumed the first sign of differentiation into stalked structures. In hua1 hua2 hen4-2 stage 7 flowers, however, the third whorl organ primordia assumed a flat shape, resembling perianth organs CITATION. The stamen identity and floral determinacy defects were only found in the hua1 hua2 hen4 triple mutants. hua1 hen4, hua2 hen4, and hen4 flowers appeared normal (CITATION and data not shown). hua1 hua2 hen4 gynoecia exhibited more extensive sepal character than hua1 hua2 gynoecia. While some valve cells located in the top, lateral positions in hua1 hua2 gynoecia exhibited epicuticular striation patterns similar to those in sepal cells, most hua1 hua2 valve cells had a smooth surface (CITATION; CITATION). However, all valve cells in hua1 hua2 hen4 flowers (early-arising or late-arising) had epicuticular thickenings that resembled sepal cells CITATION. Therefore, HEN4 also acts in carpel identity specification. HUA1, HUA2, and HEN4 all appeared also to act in vegetative development. While hua1 and hen4 single mutants had no obvious vegetative defects, hua2 plants were slightly smaller than wild-type (see Supplemental Figures S1A–S1D at http://www.developmentalcell.com/cgi/content/full/4/1/53/DC1, and data not shown). All combinations of double mutants, hua1 hen4, hua2 hen4, and hua1 hua2, were smaller and shorter than any of the single mutants (Supplemental Figures S1E–S1G; Supplemental Table S1 and data not shown). We introduced representative mutations in A and C genes into the hua1 hua2 hen4-1 background to investigate the genetic relationship between HEN4 and these genes. APETALA1 (AP1) is a class A gene that specifies perianth identities. ap1-1, a severe loss-of-function mutation CITATION, was essentially epistatic to hua1 hua2 hen4-1 in the third whorl—hua1 hua2 hen4-1 ap1-1 flowers had stamens in the third whorl CITATION. This suggests that the third whorl stamen-to-petal transformation in hua1 hua2 hen4-1 is due to ectopic AP1 activity. AP2 is the other A function gene that specifies perianth identities. hua1 hua2 hen4-1 ap2-2 flowers consisted primarily of leaf-like organs in all four whorls CITATION, a phenotype that closely resembled that of ag-1 ap2-2 flowers CITATION. This confirms that C function is greatly compromised in hua1 hua2 hen4-1. ag-4 flowers have stamens in the third whorl and internal flowers in the center of the flower CITATION. hua1 hua2 ag-4 flowers have primarily petals and occasional staminoid petals in the third whorl CITATION. hua1 hua2 hen4-1 ag-4 flowers resembled ag-1 flowers CITATION, consistent with HEN4 acting in C function. In order to address the question of whether HEN4 acts genetically in the AG pathway or in a parallel pathway, we introduced the severe loss-of-function mutation ag-1 into the hua1 hua2 hen4-1 background. The resulting quadruple mutant flowers were composed of many whorls of perianth organs as found in ag-1 flowers CITATION, suggesting that ag-1 was essentially epistatic to hen4-1. Because stamen and carpel identities are completely lost in ag-1, the epistasis of ag-1 to hen4 does not necessarily imply that HEN4 acts in the AG pathway. However, since mutations in genes such as CLAVATA1 and SUPERMAN are known to enhance the floral determinacy defect of ag-1 CITATION, the fact that hua1 hua2 hen4-1 ag-1 flowers resemble ag-1 in floral determinacy defects strongly suggests that HUA1, HUA2, and HEN4 act genetically in the AG pathway. We examined the expression of AP1 and WUS in hua1 hua2 hen4 and hua1 hua2 flowers to determine whether HEN4 acts similarly to AG in the regulation of these genes. In wild-type flowers, AP1 RNA is present throughout the floral meristem in stages 1 and 2 flowers but is restricted to the outer two floral whorls due to the negative regulation by AG starting from stage 3 CITATION. In hua1 hua2 hen4, AP1 RNA accumulation patterns differed from those in wild-type and hua1 hua2 flowers CITATION as early as stage 3, when AP1 RNA was still detectable in the inner two whorls in the triple mutant at a low level CITATION . During later stages of flower development, the ectopic AP1 expression was more extensive in hua1 hua2 hen4 as compared to hua1 hua2, with more cells in the inner two whorls expressing AP1 at higher levels CITATION. In mature hua1 hua2 hen4 flowers, AP1 RNA was present throughout the carpel walls (CITATION and data not shown). WUS is expressed in a few cells underneath the stem cells in the shoot apical meristem and in stage 6 or younger floral meristems in wild-type CITATION. WUS RNA disappears from the flower at around stage 7 due to negative regulation by AG CITATION. In hua1 hua2, WUS RNA was never observed in stage 7 or older flowers (CITATION and data not shown). However, in hua1 hua2 hen4-2, WUS RNA was found in some older flowers CITATION, consistent with the floral determinacy defect observed in late-arising flowers. AG RNA is found in the inner two whorls starting at stage 3 in wild-type and hua1 hua2 plants (CITATION; CITATION). The onset and the domain of AG expression were not affected in the hua1 hua2 hen4 triple mutants CITATION. In stage 7 and older flowers, AG RNA continued to be found in the inner two whorls, but often in a patchy pattern or barely detectable in some organs CITATION. We believe this is due to the reduced level of AG RNA in the triple mutant flowers (see below). We first mapped HEN4 to a 48 kb region on chromosome V covered by a P1 clone MSJ1 and a BAC T12B11 CITATION . Three candidate genes in this region were sequenced from hen4-1. One gene, At5g64390, was found to contain a G-to-A mutation that disrupts the splice acceptor site of the fourth intron. Sequencing of this gene from hen4-2 identified a C-to-T mutation in the fourth exon that results in a stop codon. To confirm that At5g64390 is HEN4, we cloned a genomic fragment containing only this gene into the plant transformation vector pPZP222 and transformed plants that were homozygous for hua1 and hen4-1 but segregating for hua2 with the construct. Seven independent T1 lines had flowers indistinguishable from those in hua1 hua2 CITATION. Two other T1 lines showed floral phenotypes that were intermediate between hua1 hua2 and hua1 hua2 hen4-1. Molecular genotyping of the nine T1 plants for hua2-1 and phenotypic analyses of T2 plants grown with or without selection for the transgene confirmed that these T1 lines were hua1 hua2 hen4-1 plants containing the HEN4 transgene. Therefore, the HEN4 transgene rescued or partially rescued the floral homeotic defect caused by hen4-1. The pPZP222 vector alone did not rescue the floral homeotic phenotypes CITATION. These data demonstrated that At5g64390 is indeed HEN4. Two HEN4 cDNA species (1 and 2, due to the exclusion or inclusion of the last intron) were obtained by RT-PCR CITATION. The corresponding conceptual proteins contain five and four KH domains, respectively, and a putative nuclear localization signal CITATION. KH domains are usually 70 amino acids in length with a characteristic pattern of hydrophobic residues, an invariant Gly-x-x-Gly segment, and a variable loop (CITATION; CITATION). X-ray crystallographic studies clearly demonstrated the affinity of KH domains for single-stranded RNA CITATION. Among the 27 reported KH domain proteins in the Arabidopsis genome CITATION, HEN4 is the only one with a known developmental function so far. HEN4 is more closely related to ten other KH domain proteins from Arabidopsis and rice. The similarity between HEN4 and these proteins, however, is primarily limited to the KH domains. No clear HEN4 orthologs are present in metazoans, which implies that HEN4 is not part of a general machinery for RNA metabolism and instead may have specific developmental functions. In RNA filter hybridization, two HEN4 transcripts were detected in various organs, such as leaves, stems, roots, and inflorescences, in wild-type plants (CITATION and data not shown). Both transcripts were found in ag-2 and hua1 hua2 inflorescences CITATION. Only the smaller RNA species (transcript 1, which would give rise to the larger HEN4 protein) was found in hen4-1 and hen4-2 genotypes CITATION. Transcript 1 as an authentic HEN4 transcript was confirmed by RT-PCR and sequencing, as well as by expression studies using EYFP as the reporter gene (data not shown). The absence of HEN4 transcript 2 in hen4 genotypes was unlikely due to nonsense-mediated decay, because both transcripts in hen4 genotypes contained nonsense codons but yet transcript 1 was not affected. Instead, it is more likely that HEN4 acts to regulate the splicing of its own pre-mRNA. Using a probe that can hybridize to both HEN4 RNA forms, we detected signals throughout the inflorescence meristem and throughout the flower in stage 6 and younger flowers (CITATION, and data not shown) by in situ hybridization. A probe specific to HEN4 cDNA2 failed to detect any signals in inflorescences or flowers, although RNA filter hybridization showed that this RNA form was found in inflorescences CITATION. Because hua1 and hen4 mutations behave similarly and both HUA1 and HEN4 are probably RNA binding proteins, we speculated that the two proteins act together in the cell. First, we demonstrated that HEN4, like HUA1 CITATION, was localized in the nucleus by visualizing YFP signals in the roots of the transgenic plants carrying a functional translational fusion of YFP to the C terminus of HEN4 protein 1 under the control of the HEN4 promoter (HEN4p::HEN4-EYFP). Next, we determined whether HUA1 and HEN4 colocalize within the nucleus. The HEN4p::HEN4-EYFP Agrobacteria were infiltrated into tobacco leaves alone or in combination with those containing 35S::HUA1-ECFP. No YFP fluorescence was detected when HEN4-EYFP was introduced alone, while nuclear CFP fluorescence was detected in cells from the leaf area infiltrated with HUA1-CFP alone CITATION . When the two types of Agrobacteria were coinfiltrated, however, nuclear signals through both YFP and CFP filter sets were detected CITATION. Coinfiltration of HEN4p::HEN4-EYFP together with 35S::GAL4-ECFP did not result in any YFP signal CITATION, suggesting that HUA1 was responsible for the accumulation or localization of HEN4-EYFP. Examination of HEN4-EYFP and HUA1-ECFP signals at higher magnification showed that the two proteins were present in speckled patterns in the nuclei. Furthermore, HUA1, but not another nuclear protein, TGA5 CITATION, appeared to be concentrated in the same speckles with HEN4 CITATION. To determine whether HUA1 and HEN4 physically interacted with each other, we measured fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between the two proteins and between HUA1 and TGA5 as the negative control. Note that the images in CITATION were taken at the same Z section (depth into the nucleus). Therefore, EYFP-TGA5, although not concentrated in the nuclear speckles containing HUA1, was also present in the same speckles, which allowed us to use TGA5 as a negative control for quantitative FRET measurements. We performed the FRET measurements on a central area approximately 5–6 μm in diameter in each nucleus, such that regions without HUA1/HEN4 speckles were also included in the measurements. Indeed, FRET was observed between HUA1 and HEN4, but not between HUA1 and TGA5 CITATION. The normalized FRET value between HUA1 and HEN4 was approximately six times that between HUA1 and TGA5 CITATION , and comparable to that between ECFP-TGA5 and EYFP-TGA5, which are known to dimerize CITATION, suggesting that HEN4 and HUA1 interacted with each other in vivo. To further test the potential interaction between HEN4 and HUA1, we performed yeast two-hybrid assays on the two proteins. Indeed, HUA1 and HEN4 were found to interact in the two-hybrid assays (Supplemental Figure S2). The nuclear localization of the two RNA binding proteins implies a function in nuclear RNA metabolism. To test whether these genes act in the processing of AG pre-mRNA, we performed RNA filter hybridization with a probe that encompassed the entire AG genomic region on total RNA isolated from various genotypes CITATION . We included hua1, hua2, and hen4 single mutants and all combinations of double and triple mutants in order to determine the contribution, if any, of each gene to AG pre-mRNA processing. In addition to the mature AG RNA, three larger RNA bands (named 1, 2, and 3) of approximately 2900, 2600, and 1400 nucleotides, respectively, were also detected in all single, double, and triple mutant flowers CITATION. RNA bands 1 and 3 were also present in wild-type (Ler). Bands 1 and 2 hybridized with a probe from the AG second intron CITATION, suggesting the presence of intron 2 sequences in the RNA species. While the abundance of RNA band 3 was not affected by the hua1, hua2, or hen4 mutations, the abundance of the two larger bands increased with the number of mutations CITATION. hua1, hua2, and hen4 mutations all contributed to the increased abundance of RNA bands 1 and 2 in the hua1 hua2 hen4 triple mutants. The level of the mature AG RNA was concomitantly reduced CITATION. Therefore, all three genes, HEN4, HUA1, and HUA2, act in AG pre-mRNA processing. To determine whether HEN2, a putative nuclear RNA helicase, was also involved in AG pre-mRNA processing, we analyzed AG RNA accumulation in wild-type, hen2-1, and hua1 hua2 hen2-1 plants CITATION. In hen2-1 and hua1 hua2 hen2-1, the abundance of RNA bands 1 and 2 was increased relative to Ler and hua1 hua2, respectively. AG mRNA level was greatly reduced in hua1 hua2 hen2-1 compared to Ler, which is consistent with the loss-of-C function phenotypes associated with hua1 hua2 hen2-1 flowers. In order to determine the nature of RNA bands 1 and 2, we tested probes from different regions of the gene for their ability to hybridize to the large RNAs CITATION. We found that probes covering the first two exons or the 5′ portion of the second intron were able to detect RNA bands 1 and 2, whereas probes corresponding to the first intron, the 3′ end of the second intron, or the 3′ portion of the AG genomic region (exon 3 and beyond) did not hybridize to the two RNA bands. As summarized in CITATION, results from the hybridization experiments suggested that the RNAs in bands 1 and 2 both contained the first two exons, and part or most of intron 2 for bands 1 and 2, respectively. In addition, the two transcripts were present in polyA+ RNA fractions, suggesting that they were polyadenylated. 3′ RACE was carried out to determine the exact 3′ end(s) of the RNA(s) in bands 1 and 2. Four 3′ ends were found at nucleotides 1775, 1859, 1864, and 2362 from the beginning of the second intron CITATION. The first three may correspond to band 2, whereas the last one may correspond to band 1. Sequences immediately downstream of the four positions were not rich in A's. Therefore, the RNAs were unlikely to be in the polyA+ fraction due to fortuitous pairing with oligo dT. It is worth noting that the AG in situ probe as used in CITATION contained 90 nucleotides that are complementary to both the AG mRNA and the larger RNAs in bands 1 and 2. We have since repeated the experiments with a new AG mRNA-specific probe and obtained similar results (data not shown). A probe that was specific for the larger RNAs detected signals in hua1 hua2 hen4 flowers in the inner two whorls starting at stage 7 CITATION. Because ectopic AP1 RNA in the inner two whorls was detected as early as stage 3, we suspect that AG RNA processing defects also started from this early stage but the level of the larger RNAs was too low to be detected with confidence. HUA1, HUA2, and HEN4 appear to act specifically in the processing of AG pre-mRNA rather than in a general RNA processing machinery, because mutations in these genes did not lead to a higher abundance of larger RNAs from other floral homeotic genes, such as AP1, APETALA3, or PISTILLATA (Supplemental Figure S3). Two lines of evidence indicate that the reduction of AG mRNA and protein (Supplemental Figure S4) in hua1 hua2 hen4 is likely the cause of the floral homeotic phenotype in the triple mutants. First, studies of transgenic plants containing antisense AG constructs demonstrated that reduction of AG RNA to 31%–58% of wild-type levels resulted in flowers with defects in floral determinacy, and partial stamen-to-petal and carpel-to-sepal transformation CITATION. hua1 hua2 hen4 flowers, in which AG mRNA is reduced to 40%–50% of wild-type levels, largely resemble those of the AG antisense plants. Second, AG cDNA under the control of the 35S promoter (35S::AG) rescued the homeotic phenotype of the hua1 hua2 hen4-1 triple mutant CITATION. Whereas two hua1 hua2 hen4-1 plants containing the vector alone were indistinguishable from hua1 hua2 hen4-1 in floral phenotypes, three containing 35S::AG had stamens in whorls 2 and 3 CITATION. We performed a GST pulldown assay to test whether HUA1 could bind three AG RNA probes (I, II, and III, which correspond to regions 4, 5, and 8 in CITATION, respectively) from the second intron. The AG RNA probes were transcribed in the presence of [α-32P]UTP and incubated with GST-HUA1 or the control GST-αCP1, an unrelated RNA binding protein. The bound RNAs were eluted and resolved on a polyacrylamide gel. Efficient binding of GST-HUA1, but not GST-αCP1, to all three RNA segments was detected (CITATION and data not shown). To determine whether HUA1 was specific for these regions in the AG pre-mRNA, we tested a probe that corresponded to the first intron. GST-HUA1 was also able to bind this probe, which argues against region-specific affinity of HUA1 to AG pre-mRNA. While these observations cannot explain why AG intron 2 but not intron 1 was retained in the hua1, hua2, and hen4 mutants, the binding of HUA1 to AG pre-mRNA suggests that AG can be a direct in vivo target of HUA1 and HEN4, which act together.
!~MM~! Wild-type plants of the Columbia ecotype were used to pollinate the stigma of early-arising flowers from hua1-1 hua2-1 hen4-1 plants (in the Ler background). A small number of seeds were obtained from these crosses. In the F2 population, plants showing the hua1-1 hua2-1 hen4-1 or the hua1-1 hua2-1 floral phenotypes were selected as the mapping population. The genotypes of those in the latter category were determined by the segregation of the hua1-1 hua2-1 hen4-1 floral phenotype in the F3 generation. Initial mapping with 52 hua1-1 hua2-1 hen4-1 plants showed that HEN4 was linked to the marker AthS0191 on chromosome V. New markers in this region were developed according to polymorphisms between Ler and Col, as reported by Cereon (http://www.Arabidopsis.org/Cereon/index.html). Using these markers and 342 plants of known HEN4 genotypes, we mapped HEN4 to a 48 kb region covered by a P1 clone MSJ1 and a BAC T12B11 (see CITATION). A 5076 bp DNA fragment containing 583 bp of sequences upstream of the start codon and 554 bp of sequences downstream of the stop codon of At5g64390 was amplified by PCR from MSJ1 and cloned into the plant transformation vector pPZP222 CITATION. The resulting plasmid, pCC214, was used to transform hua1 hen4-1 plants that segregated for hua2 by vacuum infiltration. The 5′ and 3′ ends of HEN4 transcripts were determined by 5′ and 3′ RACE, respectively. Full-length cDNAs corresponding to the two HEN4 transcripts were then cloned by RT-PCR using Pfu polymerase with RBp17 (5′-agcaacttagcgttaaagaccaccaaag-3′) and RBp18 (5′-agacatcaaactgattccttcaaagtacttaaa-3′). The two products, 2876 bp and 3410 bp in length, were cloned into pCR-BluntII-TOPO and pCRII (Invitrogen) to result in plasmids pCC055 and pCC033, respectively. The plasmids were sequenced to ensure the absence of mutations introduced by PCR. Molecular genotyping for hua1-1 CITATION, hua2-1 CITATION, hen4-1, and hen4-2 greatly facilitated the identification of various genotypes in genetic crosses. hen4-1 resulted in a designed MwoI polymorphism: the RBp11 (5′-ctcccattcttcctctacacattcag-3′)/RBp12 (5′-agataagcctcttggaggcgctggagg-3′) PCR product from wild-type could be digested with MwoI, whereas that from hen4-1 could not. For hen4-2 genotyping, the RBp5 (5′-cattgttccttaagttgtctggcata-3′)/HEN4p40 (5′-gctcttggctaaggaatttttcat-3′) PCR product was digested with Fnu4HI. hen4-2 resulted in the loss of an Fnu4HI site. The construction of various genotypic combinations, such as hua1 hen4, hua2 hen4, hua1 hua2 hen4-1 ap1-1, hua1 hua2 hen4-1 ap2-2, hua1 hua2 hen4-1 ag-4, hua1 hua2 hen4-1 ag-1, and hua1 hua2 hen4-1 35S::AG, is described in Supplemental Data. In situ hybridization and RNA filter hybridization were carried out as described CITATION. Details for probes used can be found in Supplemental Data. For the detection of AG, AP1, AP3, PI, and FLC RNAs by RNA filter hybridization, 50 μg of total RNA or polyA+ RNA isolated from 50 μg of total RNA was used. For the detection of HEN4 RNA, polyA+ RNA was isolated from approximately 100 μg of total RNA. SEM was performed as described by CITATION. Transient expression assays and image acquisition were performed according to CITATION. The construction of plasmids, HEN4p::HEN4-EYFP, 35S::HUA1-ECFP, 35S::GAL4-ECFP, 35S::EYFP-TGA5, and 35S::ECFP-TGA5, is described in Supplemental Data. Images were acquired at 0.2 μm Z steps and with a 0.3 s exposure time. Three images in each step were acquired in the same order through (1) a YFP filter set (excitation 500/20 nm, emission 535/30 nm), (2) a CFP filter set (excitation 436/10 nm, emission 470/30 nm), and (3) a FRET filter set (excitation 436/10 nm, emission 535/30 nm). Three stacked images were then deconvolved, and the image in the middle layer was used to measure the fluorescence intensity. FRET calculation was performed based on the “microFRET” method CITATION. It was shown that the best way to obtain a precise background fluorescence value for nuclei in tobacco leaves is to measure the fluorescence intensity value from the cytosolic region in the same cell CITATION. Therefore, the mean fluorescence intensity values in the cytosolic area were subtracted from the nuclear images before carrying out FRET calculations. Fluorescence through the FRET filter set consisted of a true FRET component (“corrected” FRET, cFRET) and a non-FRET component (both donor and acceptor fluorescence through the FRET filter set). See Supplemental Data for how cFRET values were derived. The full-length HUA1 coding region was amplified and cloned into pGEX-2TK to generate the GST-HUA1 plasmid. The GST-αCP1 expression plasmid was a gift from Dr. Kiledjian at Rutgers University. RNA binding assays were performed as described by CITATION and CITATION.
