!~ABS~! Plants possess several photoreceptors to sense the light environment. In Arabidopsis cryptochromes and phytochromes play roles in photomorphogenesis and in the light input pathways that synchronize the circadian clock with the external world. We have identified SRR1 (sensitivity to red light reduced), a gene that plays an important role in phytochrome B (phyB)-mediated light signaling. The recessivesrr1 null allele and phyB mutants display a number of similar phenotypes indicating that SRR1 is required for normal phyB signaling. Genetic analysis suggests that SRR1 works both in the phyB pathway but also independently of phyB. srr1mutants are affected in multiple outputs of the circadian clock in continuous light conditions, including leaf movement and expression of the clock components, CCA1 and TOC1. Clock-regulated gene expression is also impaired during day–night cycles and in constant darkness. The circadian phenotypes of srr1 mutants in all three conditions suggest that SRR1 activity is required for normal oscillator function. The SRR1 gene was identified and shown to code for a protein conserved in numerous eukaryotes including mammals and flies, implicating a conserved role for this protein in both the animal and plant kingdoms. 
!~RES~! In an effort to identify novel components required for proper light-modulated development, we screened for Arabidopsismutants that displayed reduced sensitivity to low intensities of white light. We selected seedlings that had a longer hypocotyl than the wild type in this light regime (Fig. 1A), and identified the srr1 (sensitivity tored light reduced) mutant. We determined that under monochromatic light conditions, srr1 mutants had a reduced sensitivity to red light specifically, but responded normally to both far-red and blue light (Fig. 1B–D). Because phytochrome B (phyB) is the major red light photoreceptor in Arabidopsis, we tested srr1 for other typical phyB-mediated responses.Arabidopsis phyB mutations lead to pleiotropic phenotypes.phyB mutants are pale because of reduced chlorophyll accumulation (CITATION). We measured chlorophyll content in red-light-grown seedlings and determined that srr1 mutants accumulated intermediate levels of chlorophyll, between the levels of the wild type and a phyB null mutant (Fig.2A). A saturating pulse of far-red light given at the end of the day induces several typical growth responses inArabidopsis, including enhanced hypocotyl elongation (CITATION; CITATION). This end-of-day far-red (EOD FR) response is greatly diminished in phyB mutants (Fig. 2B;CITATION; CITATION), and srr1 seedlings also displayed a reduced EOD FR response (Fig. 2B). Later in development, phyB mutants had longer petioles, a phenotype that was also observed in the srr1 mutant (Fig. 2C). Moreover,srr1 mutants had a subtle early-flowering phenotype in long days but flowered much earlier than the wild type in short days (Fig.2D). The difference in flowering time between long and short days was therefore much smaller in srr1 mutants than in the wild type (Fig. 2D). This suggests that srr1 mutants, like phyBmutants, have a reduced sensitivity to day length (Fig. 2D; CITATION; CITATION). Taken together, these data strongly suggest that srr1 mutants are defective in phyB-mediated signaling. To verify that srr1 mutants had normal levels of phytochrome, we determined by Western blots that the levels of phyA and phyB were similar in the srr1 mutant and the wild type (data not shown). These data suggest that srr1 mutants affect phyB-mediated signaling rather than stability or biosynthesis of the photoreceptor.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To verify that SRR1 operates in the phyB pathway, we made double mutants between srr1 and the null allele phyB-9. In red light (Fig. 3B), the phyB srr1double mutants had hypocotyls of the same length as the phyBsingle mutant. However, when de-etiolation was studied under white light, the phyB srr1 double mutant had a stronger phenotype than the individual single mutants (Fig. 3C). In white light, we also observed an additive phenotype for cotyledon expansion in the phyB srr1 double mutant, which was not apparent in red light (data not shown). Collectively, these observations suggest that SRR1 works in the phyB pathway, but also acts independently of phyB.  [[FIGURE]]  Arabidopsis is a facultative long-day plant, flowering earlier in long than short days. The srr1 flowering time phenotype suggests a defect in photoperiodic perception (Fig. 2D). A number of flowering-time mutants show a reduction or even an absence of sensitivity to day length (CITATION). Such phenotypes are also observed in numerous circadian clock mutants; moreover, many of them also display an altered light sensitivity during seedling emergence (CITATION). We therefore tested srr1mutants for circadian phenotypes by performing Northern blots of RNA from wild type and srr1 mutants that were entrained in day–night cycles (LD) and released into constant light (LL). All circadian-regulated genes that were tested (CAB,AtGRP7/CCR2, CCA1, CAT3, TOC1,GI, and FKF1) showed shorter periods, more rapid dampening, and reduced amplitude of the oscillation in thesrr1 mutant background (Fig. 4A; data not shown). Quantification of the Northern blots revealed that the period of AtGRP7/CCR2, CAB, and CCA1oscillations was between 1.8 and 2.8 h shorter in the mutant than the wild type (data not shown). To test an unrelated clock-controlled phenotype, we recorded leaf movements in entrained srr1mutants that were released into constant light conditions. Again thesrr1 mutant had a period length of ∼2 h shorter than the wild type, 22.6 h in the srr1 mutant versus 24.5 h in the isogenic wild type (Fig. 4B). These results, together with the reduced sensitivity to day length during photoperiodic flower induction (Fig.2C), indicate that SRR1 function is required for the timing of multiple outputs from the circadian clock.  [[FIGURE]] Experiments conducted in constant light cannot discriminate between a defect in the light input pathway and a defect in the oscillator (CITATION). To test whether srr1 is also required for clock function in the dark, we shifted entrained plants into constant dark (DD) conditions and tested the rhythmic expression ofCAB, CCA1, and CAT3 during one LD cycle and 2 DD cycles by Northern blotting (Fig. 4C). This experiment showed that during LD conditions, the peak of expression of genes such asCAB or CCA1 is earlier in the srr1 mutant than in the wild type (Fig. 4C). This indicates that under entrained conditions, the srr1 mutants had a phenotype in circadian-regulated gene expression. phyB mutants also have an early phase of circadian gene expression (CITATION; CITATION).  In srr1 mutants, the early phase was also visible forCCA1 transcript oscillation in DD, but the amplitude of rhythmic gene expression was not high enough to determine the period length in DD by Northern blotting. However, this experiment showed very clearly that in DD conditions, the transcript level of CAT3 insrr1 mutants stabilizes to a high steady-state level. This stabilization at a high level is dependent on phyA and cry1 function but not phyB activity (CITATION). This observation is an additional piece of evidence linking SRR1 to phyB signaling rather than cry1 or phyA signaling.  To further test for a possible function of SRR1 in DD conditions, we generated srr1 CAB2∷LUC and srr1 CCR2∷LUCreporter lines. These plants were entrained in day–night cycles and released into constant darkness. These experiments showed that the phase of the circadian peak was 2 h earlier for both genes in thesrr1 mutant (Fig. 4D,E). For the CCR2∷LUC line, the period length was shortened by 1.6 h in srr1 mutants relative to the wild-type control (Fig. 4D). The rapid dampening ofCAB2∷LUC in DD prevented us from determining a period length of expression of this reporter gene. Taken together, these results suggest that SRR1 activity is required for normal oscillator function.  To test for a light-regulated gene expression phenotype when seedlings are transferred from the dark to the light without prior entrainment of the clock, we examined the induction of the CAB gene in etiolated seedlings in response to a pulse of red light. This early light induction of genes such as CAB is known as the acute response (CITATION). Mutations in components of theArabidopsis oscillator differentially affect this light response. toc1-1 mutants have a normal acute response, contrasting with cca1-1 and phyB seedlings, which show a reduced response (CITATION). The srr1mutants had an enhanced acute CAB response (Fig. 4F).  The srr1 mutant was identified in a collection of T-DNA-transformed Arabidopsis lines (CITATION). We crossed the mutant to an isogenic wild type and followed the segregation of the mutant phenotype and the T-DNA marker gene in >80 F2 plants. The mutation was recessive for all phenotypes tested. There was a single T-DNA insertion site that cosegregated with thesrr1 mutant phenotype. We isolated genomic DNA flanking the left border (LB) of the T-DNA. The identified DNA matched the sequence of BAC F2O15 (nt 65296–65343), the insertion being in the 5′-untranslated region of a putative ORF coding for a protein of unknown function (F2O15.23, accession no. At5g59560). Using a combination of Southern blots and PCR, we determined that the T-DNA insertion is complex with two left borders (LB) flanking the insertion site (Fig. 5A). The insertion also resulted in the deletion of 82 nt. We identified and sequenced a cDNA coding for the gene that we call SRR1 from an EST collection (GenBank accession no. AY127047). We tested the expression of the SRR1gene and of the gene most proximal to the T-DNA insertion (a gene coding for a response regulator RR, the ARR1-like protein AB025604) by RT–PCR. We found that SRR1 was not expressed in thesrr1 mutant, whereas expression of the RR gene was unaffected (Fig. 5B). To demonstrate that loss of the SRR1expression caused the srr1 mutant phenotype, we complemented the mutant by transforming it with a piece of genomic DNA including 1.8 kb of promoter sequence and 0.5 kb of sequence 3′ of the gene. Multiple independent lines were tested for de-etiolation and circadian phenotypes (Fig. 5C,D). These experiments confirmed that the lack ofSRR1 expression caused the phenotypes of the srr1mutant plants (Fig. 5C,D; data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] Using BLAST and PSI-BLAST (CITATION), we found sequences homologous to the predicted SRR1 protein in numerous eukaryotes including rice, mouse, human, Drosophila, and yeast (Fig.6A). The function of these genes is presently unknown. A biochemical activity for these putative proteins is not immediately apparent because they contain no recognizable domains. A putative nuclear localization sequence is located between amino acids 26 and 30 of the Arabidopsis protein. This part of the putative protein is relatively well conserved between the animal and plant sequences (Fig. 6A,B). To test the subcellular localization of SRR1 in Arabidopsis, we generated plants that expressed an SRR1–GFP fusion protein under the control of the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus 35S promoter. Fluorescence microscopy indicated that the SRR1–GFP fusion was found both in the nucleus and the cytoplasm of these plants (Fig. 6C). This fusion protein when expressed from its own promoter was capable of complementing the phenotype of thesrr1 mutants, indicating that the fusion to GFP did not alter SRR1 activity (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] Numerous clock components are themselves under circadian regulation at the transcriptional level (e.g., see CITATION). We tested this for SRR1, but found that steady-state SRR1 mRNA levels were constant across the circadian cycle in LL (Fig.7B). Because SRR1 also plays a role in phytochrome-mediated light signaling, we tested whether theSRR1 message was up-regulated in response to light. The steady-state level of SRR1 mRNA was induced when dark-grown seedlings were transferred into red light. The induction was already visible 2 h after the shift into the light (Fig. 7A). Interestingly, the SRR1 transcript was not modulated by far-red light (Fig.7A). This pattern of light induction is consistent with a role for SRR1 in phyB signaling.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The progeny of 2600 independent Arabidopsis ecotype Col-7 transformants (CITATION) were screened in 50 μmoles m−2 sec−1 white light. We screened ∼10 T2 seeds per original transformant. Seeds were surface-sterilized and plated on Petri dishes on 1/2 MS, 0.7% phytagar. Plates were stored in the dark at 4°C for 3 d and moved into constant white light at 22°C. For monochromatic light conditions, germination was induced by a white light treatment; the seedlings were then grown in the appropriate light conditions for 4–6 d depending on the experiment. Experiments in monochromatic light were performed in a Percival E-30LED using either the blue (λmax = 469 nm), red (λmax = 667 nm), or the FR (λmax = 739 nm) diodes, at 22°C in continuous light. Light intensities were determined with a LiCor LI-1800 spectroradiometer or with an International light IL1400A photometer equipped with an SEL033 probe with appropriate light filters.  Petiole length was determined as described (CITATION). Flowering time was measured according to CITATION. Briefly, seeds were stratified at 4°C for 3 d, and plants were grown at 23°C in long (16 h light, 8 h dark) or short (9 h light, 15 h dark) days under a mixture of 3:1 cool-white and Gro-Lux fluorescent lights.  Measurements of hypocotyl length were performed as described (CITATION). For chlorophyll determination, triplicates of 20 seedlings were each incubated in 1 mL of 80% acetone overnight in the dark at room temperature under constant shaking. The OD of the solution was determined at 647 nm and 663 nm, and the chlorophyll content was calculated with the following formula: micrograms per microliter of total chlorophyll = 18.71 × (OD647) + 7.15 × (OD663). The effect of the end-of-day far-red treatment was determined as inCITATION.  Plant DNA was prepared either according to CITATION or with Plant DNAzol Reagent (GIBCO-BRL) according to the manufacturer's instructions.  RNA was extracted as described (CITATION). We ran formaldehyde MOPS gels loaded with 10–15 μg of total RNA per lane and transferred the RNA with 10× SSC. Probes generated by random priming were described in CITATION. Northern and Southern blots were hybridized with Church buffer at 62°C and washed according to the manufacturer's instructions. For quantification, we used a PhosphorImager, Imagequant (Molecular Dynamics). RNA levels for clock-regulated genes were normalized to the levels of actin RNA. Normalized data were analyzed using FFT-NLLS, to provide objective period estimates. This software returns a valid best-fit period from such short and sparse time series, although the associated estimates of uncertainty of fit must be treated with caution.  Because the srr1 mutant came from a T-DNA insertion collection, we determined that the phenotype cosegregated with the T-DNA insertion marker by analyzing 80 F2 progeny of a cross between the homozygous srr1 mutant and wild-type Col-7. Thesrr1 phenotype is recessive, and the original mutant contained a single T-DNA insertion site. For subsequent experiments the mutant was back-crossed twice.  To obtain DNA sequence flanking the T-DNA insertion site, we used a PCR technique related to the Genome Walker Kit (Clonetech). Sequencing identified the T-DNA left border sequence flanked by 70 bp of sequence of unknown origin and 48 bp of BAC F2O15 (nt 65296–65343), finishing with an HindIII site ligated to the adaptor sequence. The insertion site was then confirmed by PCR with various primers. Using Southern blots, we determined that the insertion is complex, with the other end of the T-DNA also containing a Left Border as determined by PCR followed by sequencing. The other end flanks nt 65426 from BAC F2O15, and the T-DNA insertion therefore deletes 82 nt corresponding to nt 65344–65425 of BAC F2O15. This T-DNA insertion is just upstream of a putative ORF for which we found the following EST clones: SQ058e07F (AV557017) and SQ091c08F (AV558172; Kasuza DNA Research Institute). The longer of the two, SQ091c08F, encompasses nt 64054–65328 of BAC F2O15 including a putative ORF identified by the Arabidopsis genome project.  For the analysis of transcript levels, a reverse transcription reaction was performed with total RNA extracted from wild-type andsrr1 mutant plants. An oligo(dT)(12–18) primer was hybridized to 1 μg of RNA. The reverse transcription was performed with Superscript II (GIBCO-BRL) according to the manufacturer's instructions. After the RT reaction, the cDNA was diluted threefold with dH2O, and 1 μL of diluted cDNA was used for PCR reactions with gene-specific primers for UBQ10, SRR1, and RR. PCR reactions were stopped after 30, 32, and 34 cycles, and the reactions were analyzed by Southern blotting. To test for DNA contamination, a mock RT reaction was performed in the absence of oligo(dT)(12–18). The product was then PCR-amplified and Southern blotted as described above.  For complementation of the srr1 mutant, we gel-purified the 3.4-kb SpeI fragment from BAC F2O15 encompassing theSRR1 gene (nt 63753–67173). The fragment was ligated into anXbaI-digested and phosphatase-treated pPZP211 vector (CITATION). The resulting construct (pLA2) was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens, strain GV3101.srr1 plants were transformed with the spray method (CITATION). T2 seeds from multiple independent transformants were used to confirm the complementation.  Using standard cloning techniques, we fused a modified GFP (CITATION) in frame after the last codon of theSRR1 gene. This fusion gene was either expressed under the 35S promoter by cloning it into pCHF3 (CITATION) to create pCF325, or expressed from its own promoter to create pCF327. Col plants transformed with CF325 and srr1 mutants transformed with pCF327 were generated as described above. We performed microscopy with 5-day-old dark-grown homozygous single-insertion Col pCF325 plants. The seedlings were mounted in 20% glycerol, 1/2 MS, and 0.5 μg/mL DAPI (Sigma) and were observed with a DAPI filter or a narrow band GFP filter (Chroma 41020) on a Zeiss Axioplan 2 fluorescence microscope. Images were recorded with a Quantix CCD camera and pseudocolored using Photoshop.  Leaf movement rhythms were monitored in a Kujata imaging system and analyzed using FFT-NLLS as described (CITATION). Experiments comparing srr1 with Col-7 were repeated three times, with very similar results. Figure 4 presents data from a representative experiment. Leaf movement rhythms were analyzed in a single experiment for two srr1 mutant lines that were independently transformed with the complementing construct, pLA2. Seedlings were arranged randomly with respect to genotypes within each experiment, to avoid positional bias in the imaging arrays. Transcriptional rhythms ofCAB2 and CCR2 expression were assayed using luciferase reporter gene fusions as described (CITATION). TheCCR2∷LUC and CAB2∷LUC constructions were transformed into Col-7 and the srr1 mutant (CITATION), and progeny from three independent transformants were analyzed for each genotype/transformation combination. Rhythmic data on the T2 and T3 generations were collected on a TopCount (Packard). Period estimates were generated using FFT-NLLS, as described above. 
