!~ABS~! Plants have evolved a sophisticated innate immune system to recognize invading pathogens and to induce a set of host defense mechanisms resulting in disease resistance. Pathogen recognition is often mediated by plant disease resistance (R) proteins that respond specifically to one or a few pathogen-derived molecules. This specificity has led to suggestions of a receptor-ligand mode of R protein function. Delivery of the bacterial effector protein AvrRpt2 by Pseudomonas syringae specifically induces disease resistance in Arabidopsis plants expressing the RPS2 R protein. We demonstrate that RPS2 physically interacts with Arabidopsis RIN4 and that AvrRpt2 causes the elimination of RIN4 during activation of the RPS2 pathway. AvrRpt2-mediated RIN4 elimination also occurs in the rps2, ndr1, and Atrar1 mutant backgrounds, demonstrating that this activity can be achieved independent of an RPS2-mediated signaling pathway. Therefore, we suggest that RPS2 initiates signaling based upon perception of RIN4 disappearance rather than direct recognition of AvrRpt2.
!~RES~! To study the RPS2 disease resistance protein in planta, we constructed stable transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing RPS2 fused with a C-terminal HA epitope tag in the rps2 null background rps2-101C CITATION. To approximate the physiological levels of RPS2 gene expression and to avoid the lethality observed with overexpression of RPS2 CITATION, the transgene was placed under the transcriptional control of its native 5′ and 3′ genomic DNA sequences (CITATION; CITATION). The RPS2-HA transgene complements the rps2-101C null mutation as demonstrated by the restricted growth of Pst-avrRpt2 CITATION. We noted that the RPS2-HA lines tested restricted the growth of Pst-avrRpt2 to a greater degree than wild-type plants carrying native RPS2. We also observed that the RPS2-HA transgenic plants responded with visible tissue collapse more rapidly than wild-type (5 hr versus 21 hr) after inoculation of high densities of Pst-avrRpt2 (data not shown). We suspect this apparently heightened activity of the transgene to be due to a greater expression level of RPS2. However, the RPS2-HA transgene does not cause a general increase in bacterial disease resistance, since the non-recognized virulent Pst-EV strain proliferates to the same level as in wild-type and rps2-101C plants CITATION. Immunoblotting crude lysates from several complementing RPS2-HA lines with anti-HA monoclonal antibodies revealed a transgene-specific species at approximately 110 kDa, which corresponds closely to the predicted molecular weight of 105.8 kDa CITATION. Line 52 had the highest apparent expression of RPS2-HA, and was used for further study. Chen and colleagues described transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the bacterial effector protein AvrRpt2 under the transcriptional control of the weak RPS2 native 5′ genomic DNA sequence CITATION. Such plants allow increased growth of virulent Pst while abrogating the function of the RPM1 disease resistance gene, indicating that AvrRpt2 acts a virulence factor from within the plant cell in the absence of RPS2 recognition and is able to interfere with the function of RPM1. Attempts to detect AvrRpt2 protein in these plants with polyclonal antisera failed, presumably due to a very low expression level (data not shown); therefore, we also generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing HA-tagged avrRpt2 from the control of the RPS2 native promoter in the rps2-101C background (see Experimental Procedures; CITATION). An avrRpt2-HA line was isolated that, like the untagged line of CITATION, lacked the ability to restrict the growth of Pst-avrRpm1 CITATION. Our AvrRpt2-HA line expressed a detectable amount of AvrRpt2-HA at the expected molecular weight for the N-terminal processed form which is sufficient for AvrRpt2 function in planta (CITATION; CITATION). The suppression of RPM1-mediated disease resistance and the detection of properly processed AvrRpt2-HA are consistent with previously reported phenotypes for functional AvrRpt2 CITATION and lead us to conclude that AvrRpt2-HA expressed from within the plant cell mimics the biological function of the native effector protein. RPS2 was proposed to be a soluble protein based upon site-directed mutagenesis of a possible trans-membrane region and in vitro experiments CITATION. In contrast, the related NB-LRR disease-resistance protein RPM1 has been shown to be a plasma membrane-associated protein whose subcellular localization matches that of the bacterial effector proteins to which it responds CITATION. To empirically determine the subcellular localization of functional RPS2 within plant cells, we first fractionated crude lysates from RPS2-HA transgenic plants into soluble and total membrane fractions. RPS2-HA from two independent transgenic lines is detected exclusively in a total membrane fraction CITATION . Further subfractionation of total membranes using a polyethylene glycol 4000/Dextran T-500 aqueous two-phase system allowed us to derive a membrane fraction selectively enriched for plasma membranes CITATION. RPS2-HA partitions with proteins known to reside in the plasma membrane, indicating that RPS2-HA is a plasma membrane-associated protein CITATION. We tested whether RPS2-HA remained membrane-associated during pathogenesis by high-density bacterial inoculations with a virulent, non-recognized strain, Pst-EV; the RPS2-HA recognized strain Pst-avrRpt2; and strains recognized by other Arabidopsis NB-LRR genes (Pst-avrRpm1 and Pst-avrPphB; recognized by RPM1 and RPS5, respectively). As shown in CITATION, RPS2-HA clearly remains associated with a total membrane fraction after inoculation with all strains tested. We also noted that, in contrast to the NB-LRR protein RPM1 that is eliminated during pathogen recognition CITATION, RPS2-HA remains detectable during both its own activation and activation of other NB-LRR proteins CITATION. Therefore, the membrane association and abundance of RPS2-HA does not significantly change during infection. We tested whether RPS2-HA could be removed from membranes under conditions known to solubilize peripheral membrane proteins. Treatment of total membranes with 1.5 M NaCl, 100 mM Na2CO3 [pH 11], or 2 M urea all were able to solubilize the peripheral membrane protein ATPase F1β, but unable to solubilize the integral membrane protein SEC12 CITATION. None of the treatments capable of removing ATPase F1β from the membrane fraction significantly affected the membrane association of RPS2-HA. However, control treatments using 1% SDS were able to solubilize RPS2-HA completely, indicating that the inability to remove RPS2-HA from membranes using gentler treatments does not reflect the formation of insoluble aggregates (data not shown). Therefore, RPS2-HA behaves like an integral membrane protein, as high salt, high pH, or urea were unable to release it from membranes. Since RPS2-HA appears to function at the plasma membrane, we examined whether AvrRpt2-HA also was membrane-associated in our transgenic plants. CITATION shows that functional AvrRpt2-HA expressed within stable transgenic plants fractionates with total membranes. The similar subcellular localization of AvrRpt2 and RPS2 suggests that the two may be in close proximity during infection. The RIN4 protein was discovered based on its ability to interact with the disease resistance protein RPM1 and the two P. syringae effector proteins that RPM1 recognizes, AvrB and AvrRpm1 CITATION. RIN4 is a membrane-associated protein with no significant homology to any protein of known function. RIN4 appears to be hyperphosphorylated in the presence of AvrB and AvrRpm1 and is required for the stability of RPM1 protein, leading to the hypothesis that RPM1 is activated in response to the AvrB or AvrRpm1-mediated phosphorylation of RIN4. As discussed above, transgenic plants expressing either AvrRpt2 CITATION or AvrRpt2-HA CITATION lose RPM1 function. The ability of AvrRpt2 to interfere with RPM1 function has also been observed during bacterial infection CITATION. Since the RIN4 protein is required for the stability of RPM1, we examined whether the abrogation of RPM1 function in AvrRpt2-expressing transgenic plants correlates with a loss of the RIN4 protein. We immunoblotted crude lysates from AvrRpt2 and AvrRpt2-HA transgenic plants using a RIN4 polyclonal antisera and found that while RIN4 was abundant in wild-type and rps2-101C control lysates, it was not detected in either AvrRpt2-expressing line CITATION . This effect is posttranscriptional since the levels of RIN4 mRNA are equivalent in wild-type, rps2-101C, and AvrRpt2/rps2-101C plants CITATION. Therefore, AvrRpt2 either causes the degradation of RIN4 or inhibits the translation of the RIN4 mRNA. To test whether AvrRpt2-mediated elimination of RIN4 also occurs during bacterial pathogenesis, we inoculated high densities of Pst-avrRpt2 into wild-type Arabidopsis leaves followed by RIN4 immunoblotting. As shown in CITATION (Col-0 treatments), Pst-avrRpt2 specifically causes the elimination of the RIN4 protein during the infection process. The AvrRpt2-elimination of RIN4 can proceed in the absence of functional RPS2, since it occurs in the rps2-101C background. The function of RPS2 also requires both NDR1, encoding a putative membrane-bound protein, and AtRAR1, encoding a protein hypothesized to be an accessory protein within an SCF-type E3 ubiquitin ligase complex CITATION. We tested whether either of these genes, which are required for RPS2 function, are also required for AvrRpt2-mediated elimination of RIN4. As shown in CITATION, RIN4 is not detected in either the ndr1-1 and Atrar1-20 backgrounds after exposure to Pst-avrRpt2. We therefore conclude that neither RPS2 nor an intact RPS2 signaling pathway is necessary for AvrRpt2-mediated elimination of RIN4. We also noted that no detectable RIN4 breakdown products were observed via immunoblot as the elimination of RIN4 took place following bacterial inoculation (data not shown). Curiously, we observed an approximately 65 kDa band recognized by the polyclonal antisera sera that was induced by pathogens regardless of the presence of avrRpt2 (CITATION, *). A Pst strain lacking a functional TTSS did not induce the production of this band, nor was this species observed in uninfected transgenic AvrRpt2-expressing plants (data not shown). Bacterial inoculation of a transgenic line overexpressing a T7 epitope-tagged RIN4 (T7-RIN4; CITATION) showed that the 65 kDa species does not have a detectable N-terminal T7 tag (data not shown). Therefore, we have not conclusively determined whether this species is an alternative form of RIN4 with a modified N terminus or another pathogen-induced protein that crossreacts with the RIN4 antisera. The ability of AvrRpt2 to mediate the elimination of RIN4 suggested to us that RPS2 initiates defense responses as a result of RIN4 disappearance. We tested this hypothesis by inoculating wild-type plants with Pst strains expressing four avrRpt2 alleles that are not recognized by RPS2 CITATION. If elimination of RIN4 is the indeed the trigger for initiation of RPS2 signaling, then avrRpt2 alleles unrecognized by RPS2 would not be expected to eliminate RIN4. CITATION shows that none of the avrRpt2 mutant alleles tested eliminated RIN4. On the contrary, the C122Y;G131D, G141R, and G194E alleles caused an increase in the steady-state levels of RIN4, while the G194R allele caused no apparent change in RIN4 levels. Therefore, the non-recognition of these avrRpt2 alleles by RPS2 correlates with an inability to eliminate RIN4 and is consistent with the hypothesis that RPS2 initiates defense responses as a result of the disappearance of RIN4. To further test the hypothesis that RPS2 initiates signaling as a result of RIN4 disappearance, we assayed for a physical interaction between RPS2 and RIN4. To facilitate the study of a possible RPS2/RIN4 interaction, T7-RIN4 plants CITATION were crossed to RPS2-HA plants to generate F1 hybrid lines expressing both RPS2-HA and T7-RIN4. Tissue from these F1 hybrid lines was used as the source material for immunoprecipitation (IP) experiments. Control IPs using anti-HA recovered RPS2-HA from RPS2-HA tissue, but no crossreacting species from T7-RIN4 tissue (CITATION ; lanes 2 and 6). Conversely, control IPs using anti-T7 recovered T7-RIN4 from T7-RIN4 tissue, but only a weak non-specific crossreacting species was seen using RPS2-HA tissue (CITATION; lanes 4 and 8). When using hybrid RPS2-HA/T7-RIN4 lysates in IPs, anti-HA precipitated both RPS2-HA and T7-RIN4 (CITATION; lanes 10 and 14). The reciprocal experiment using anti-T7 was also able to precipitate both T7-RIN4 and RPS2-HA from hybrid lysates (CITATION; lanes 12 and 16). We also were able to precipitate RPS2-HA using anti-RIN4 from either RPS2-HA or RPS2-HA/T7-RIN4 (CITATION; lanes 3, 11, and 15). Based upon these data, we conclude that RPS2 and RIN4 are directly or indirectly associated within the plant cell. The physical interaction of RPS2 and RIN4 is consistent with the plasma membrane localization of RPS2, since RIN4 is also a plasma membrane-associated protein (CITATION; data not shown).
!~MM~! The RPS2-HA T-DNA construct p4104-HA is identical to the rps2 complementing clone p4104 described by CITATION except for the addition of an 81 nucleotide segment between the 3′ of the RPS2 open reading frame and the beginning of the RPS2 native 3′ untranslated region. This linker was added using standard PCR and subcloning techniques CITATION and is predicted to add the amino acid sequence SYPYDVPDYA to the C terminus of RPS2, followed by a stop codon and 48 nucleotides of multiple cloning site remnant. The p(RPS2)AvrRpt2-HA T-DNA construct consists of the avrRpt2 open reading frame CITATION under the transcriptional control of the 1.7 kb 5′ untranslated region of RPS2 CITATION cloned within a modified derivative of the binary vector pMD1 CITATION, pMD1Δ35S. For the construction of pMD1Δ35S, the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter was excised from pMD1 as a HindIII/XbaI fragment followed by filling in of the resultant overhangs using Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase and subsequent religation of the vector. A P RPS2 -avrRpt2-HA construct coding for the addition of the HA epitope SYPYDVPDYA to the C terminus of AvrRpt2 was prepared using standard PCR and subcloning techniques and inserted into pMD1Δ35S as a BamHI/XhoI fragment. All primer and vector sequences are available upon request. Both the p4104-HA and P RPS2 -avrRpt2-HA constructs were introduced to Agrobacterium tumefacians GV3101 using tri-parental mating CITATION and transformed into rps2-101C Arabidopsis plants by the floral dip method CITATION. Kanamycin resistant T1 seedlings were selected on Murashige-Skoog agar supplemented with 100 μg/ml kanamycin, transplanted to soil, and subsequently screened for complementation by pathogen inoculation and protein presence by anti-HA immunoblot (see below). In the case of RPS2-HA transgenic plants, lines homozygous for a single transgene locus (as determined by the segregation of kanamycin resistance) were selected and used for all experiments. For AvrRpt2-HA transgenic lines, only two lines were isolated with functional, detectable AvrRpt2-HA, and both exhibited non-Mendelian segregation ratios of kanamycin resistance in subsequent generations. Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato strain DC3000 (Pst) was used in all pathogen assays CITATION. Virulent Pst contains as a control the empty vector pVSP61 (DNA Plant Technology, Oakland, CA). Pst strains containing effector proteins carry the following derivatives of pVSP61: Pst-avrRpt2, pV288 CITATION; Pst-avrRpm1, pVARM CITATION; Pst-avrPphB, pVSP61(avrPphB) CITATION. Pst strains with mutant alleles of avrRpt2 contained derivatives of pDSK519(navrRpt2) as described in CITATION. For all pathogen inoculations, strains were grown at 28°C for 36–48 hr on Pseudomonas Agar F plates (DIFCO) supplemented with 100 μg/ml rifampicin and 25 μg/ml kanamycin, resuspended into 10 mM MgCl2, and diluted to the appropriate OD600nm. Quantitative measurements of bacterial growth were performed according to CITATION. Dip inoculations of Pst were performed at an OD600nm of 0.4 according to the method of CITATION, and symptoms were scored 5 days after inoculation. High-density syringe infiltrations were performed with a concentration of OD600nm of 0.05 with a needle-less 1 ml syringe. High-density vacuum infiltrations were performed with a concentration of OD600nm at 0.05 with the use of a vacuum pump and bell jar. Total crude protein extracts were obtained and quantified from Arabidopsis leaves using the method of CITATION. All samples in a given set were normalized to the concentration of the most dilute sample, and 20 μl was loaded onto a 5%–19% gradient SDS-PAGE gel. SDS-PAGE and subsequent immunoblotting was performed according to standard procedures CITATION. HA immunoblots were either performed with mouse monoclonal anti-HA-HRP conjugate (3F10; Roche) at a dilution of 1/167 or with mouse monoclonal anti-HA (16B12; Covance) at a dilution of 1/200. SEC12 blots were performed with rabbit anti-SEC12 (Rose Biotech) at 1/1000. NptII blots were performed with rabbit anti-NptII (5′→3′) at 1/1000. SKU5 blots were performed with rabbit anti-SKU5 CITATION at 1/1000. Vacuolar pyrophosphatase blots were performed with rabbit anti-VPPase (P. Rea # 324) at 1/1000. Mannosidase blots were performed with rabbit anti-mannosidase CITATION at 1/1000. ATPase F1β blots were performed with rabbit anti-ATPase F1β (R. Jensen) at 1/10,000. RIN4 blots were performed with rabbit anti-RIN4 CITATION at 1/1000. T7 blots were performed with mouse monoclonal anti-T7-HRP conjugate (Novagen) at 1/5000. When required, secondary goat anti-mouse IgG-HRP conjugate or goat anti-rabbit IgG-HRP conjugate (Biorad) was used at 1/3000 for detection via enhanced chemiluminescence (AP Biotech). Total membranes were obtained by homogenization of leaf tissue in 250 mM Tris-Cl [pH 8.5], 290 mM sucrose, 25 mM EDTA, 5 mM β-mercapthoethanol, 1× complete protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche) with a mortar and pestle at 4°. The homogenate was filtered through two layers of cheesecloth and centrifuged at 10,000 × gmax for 10 min at 4°. The supernatant (crude lysate) was then centrifuged at 150,000 × gmax for 45 min at 4° to pellet total membranes away from the soluble supernatant. The membrane pellet was resuspended to a final dilution of 5× that of the soluble in SDS-sample buffer prior to SDS-PAGE. Aqueous two-phase partitioning to enrich for plasma membranes was performed on total membranes as described by CITATION. Stripping of peripheral membrane proteins was accomplished by first isolating total membrane pellets as described above, followed by resuspension in 50 mM Tris-Cl [pH 7.5], 3 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, 1× complete protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche) with either 1.5 M NaCl, 100 mM Na2CO3 [pH 11], or 2 M urea, or no additional constituents. Pellets were thoroughly resuspended with the aid of a glass homogenizer and allowed to incubate at room temperature for 20 min. Samples were then centrifuged at 150,000 × gmax for 45 min at 4° to pellet the stripped membranes. Equal volumes of soluble and membrane fractions were analyzed by immunoblot. Harvested leaf tissue was immediately flash-frozen with liquid nitrogen and homogenized to a powder using a pre-chilled mortar and pestle. Buffer A (50 mM HEPES [pH 7.5], 50 mM NaCl, 10 mM EDTA, 0.2% [v/v] Triton X-100, and 1× complete protease inhibitor cocktail [Roche]) was added to the powder at 4 ml/g tissue and resuspended thoroughly by alternate rounds of vortexing and polytron homogenization. Debris was removed from the lysate by centrifugation at 20,000 × gmax for 20 min at 4°. Crude lysate was then pre-cleared by the addition of 10 μl/ml of protein A-sepharose FF beads (AP Biotech) that had been washed 5× in buffer A′ (50 mM HEPES [pH 7.5], 50 mM NaCl, 10 mM EDTA, 0.1% [v/v] Triton X-100, and 1× complete protease inhibitor cocktail [Roche]). After 15 min of tumbling at 4°, beads were centrifuged at ∼1000 × gmax, and the clarified crude lysate removed. Antibody was added to clarified crude lysate (10 μl/ml anti-HA 16B12 [Covance]; 5 μl/ml anti-T7 [Novagen]; 5 μl/ml anti-RIN4) and tumbled for 1 hr at 4°. Twenty μl/ml of protein A-sepharose FF beads (AP Biotech) that had been washed 5× in buffer A′ was added to the reactions and tumbled for 4 hr at 4°. Immunocomplexes were recovered by centrifugation at ∼1000 × gmax, washed 5× in buffer A′, and resuspended in SDS sample buffer prior to SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting.
