!~ABS~! Divalent metal binding proteins in the Arabidopsis mitochondrial proteome were analysed by mobility shifts in the presence of divalent cations during two-dimensional diagonal sodium dodecyl sulphate–polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Tandem mass spectrometry and searches of the predicted Arabidopsis protein dataset were used in an attempt to identify 34 of the proteins which shifted. This analysis identified a total of 23 distinct protein spots as the products of at least 11 different Arabidopsis genes. A series of proteins known to be divalent cation-binding proteins, or to catalyse divalent cation-dependent reactions, were identified. These included: succinyl CoA ligase β subunit, Mn-superoxide dismutase (SOD), an Fe–S centred component of complex I and the REISKE iron–sulphur protein of the b/c 1 complex. A further set of four proteins of known function but without known divalent binding properties were also identified: the Vb subunit of cytochrome c oxidase, a subunit of ATP synthase (orfB), the acyl carrier protein, and the translocase of the outer membrane (TOM20). Three other proteins, of unknown function, were also found to shift in the presence of divalent cations. This approach has broad application for the identification of sub-proteomes based on the metal interaction of polypeptides.
!~RES~! When protein samples were subjected to 2-D SDS–PAGE without treatment, lanes excised, rotated 90° and again subjected to SDS–PAGE, they gave an expected diagonal straight line of protein products observed in CITATION . On the other hand, when electrophoresis was carried out without treatment in the first dimension, but with CaCl 2 in the second dimension, a series of protein spots were apparent that had shifted from the straight diagonal ( CITATION ). These protein spots represent polypeptides whose mobility in SDS–PAGE changes with the availability of CaCl 2 . Clearly, most proteins present in mitochondrial samples were unaffected by this treatment and only a very small number of discrete proteins shift in response to increased metal cation concentration. When electrophoresis was carried out first in the presence of CaCl 2 and then in its absence ( CITATION ), again protein spots not aligned to the diagonal were detected. When treatments with CaCl 2 or EDTA were performed in both first and second dimensions, no protein spots migrating off the diagonal were observed (data not shown). Kameshita and Fujisawa CITATION showed that many of the spots that migrate differentially in the presence of Ca 2+ , also do so in the presence of Mg 2+ . Many functional studies have shown that the endogenous divalent metal centres of proteins can often be extensively interchanged in vitro CITATION . Such changes may or may not adversely affect the function of these proteins. This strongly suggests that while the shifts induced by CaCl 2 in this study are probably reflective of the presence of divalent metal-binding sites, they may not indicate that Ca 2+ is the specific endogenous ligand of all the proteins. We have used the mobility shift approach outlined above, in the presence and absence of CaCl 2 or the chelator EDTA, to probe for metal-binding proteins. EDTA provided more stringent stripping of metals before first-dimension electrophoresis or after initial electrophoresis in the presence of metal ions. The patterns of spots which shifted during the four treatments are shown in CITATION and the spots excised from gel pieces for analysis are highlighted in CITATION . After in-gel digestion and peptide elution, samples from each protein spot were subjected to tandem mass spectrometry and MS/MS data matched to databases of theoretical Arabidopsis proteins. This analysis identified 23 of the 34 shifting protein spots as shown in CITATION . While 23 protein spots were identified, these only represented 11 different Arabidopsis gene loci, indicating that some proteins were found more than once. Three proteins were only identified once, six proteins were identified twice, and two proteins were identified three or five times in the analysis. Spots 5, 13, 14, 17, 18, 20, 28, 31, 32, 33 and 34 could not be unambiguously identified due to lack of sufficient peptide matches to single Arabidopsis protein entries, and are not included in CITATION . Succinyl–CoA synthetase hydrolyses the high-energy compound succinyl–CoA with the coupled synthesis of GTP in mammals and ATP in plants. The plant enzyme has received little attention and the only detailed work on its kinetics dates back to a study by Palmer and Wedding CITATION . These researchers highlighted the metal-ion cofactor required for this enzyme and showed its function by addition of Mg 2+ , Mn 2+ or Co 2+ . Succinyl–CoA synthetase is a heterodimer and our results suggest that the α subunit is most likely responsible for the metal binding ( CITATION ). The mitochondrial form of superoxide dismutase (SOD) contains a transition metal centre with a preference for Mn 2+ . The coordination of this metal by cysteine residues most likely enables other divalent ions to occupy this site and thus explains the shift in in the presence of Ca 2+ observed in CITATION and identified in CITATION . The 23 kDa subunit of complex I is one of the eight predicted Fe–S centre proteins of this complex in eukaryotes CITATION . The REISKE Fe–S protein of complex III contains a metal centre vital for the electron transport function of this complex CITATION . The strong coordination centre of these Fe–S centres involves clusters of cysteine residues that will likely coordinate other divalent ions, as suggested by the shifts shown in CITATION . These four proteins were consistently observed on metal ion shift gels in our hands and provide confirmation that this approach identifies a subset of metal-binding proteins. OrfB is a putative component of the plant mitochondrial F 1 F O ATP synthase CITATION . To our knowledge, the data from CITATION represent the first evidence of metal ion binding for this protein. The acyl carrier protein is involved in fatty acid biosynthesis and in mitochondria is located within complex I of the respiratory chain, where it functions to deliver lipoic acid to the reaction centres of the pyruvate dehydrogenase and 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complexes, as well as the H subunit of the glycine decarboxylase complex in plants CITATION . If lipoic acid is attached to ACP, the sulphdryls present under reducing conditions may allow metal coordination and could explain the shift of this protein. Alternatively, a distinct metal-binding site may be present. The cytochrome oxidase (COX) subunit Vb is nuclear encoded and while its exact function in the electron transport chain complex is unknown, it is not regarded as a metal-binding site in the complex. In mammals, COXVb has been reported to bind the regulatory subunit of c-AMP-dependent mitochondrial protein kinase and may be involved, therefore, in the ATP regulation of COX CITATION . Whether a similar process occurs in plants has yet to be established. The TOM20 protein is a receptor on the outer mitochondrial membrane involved in import of precursor proteins from the cell cytosol CITATION . We have not found any literature citation of a metal requirement for this receptor. It is possible that the proteins found here do not all bind metals in their native state as our experiments were all performed under denaturing conditions. Determination of whether these findings translate to a metal-binding characteristic of the native protein will require further experimentation but this research has highlighted candidates for such analysis. The three proteins of unknown function presented in CITATION represent potentially novel metal-binding proteins in plant mitochondria. Similarity searches with protein sequences yielded best matches for two of the proteins to other unknown function proteins in yeast ( CITATION ). One of the three has some similarity to a protein in Rickettsia, the closest related living bacteria to the likely progenitor of modern mitochondria, which is similar to the thioltransferase proteins known as glutaredoxins. All three proteins are expressed in Arabidopsis based on our analysis ( CITATION ) and their apparent representation in EST databases ( CITATION ). Targeting prediction programmes clearly reveal that all three are likely to be authentic mitochondria proteins and not contamination from other cellular sources. Kameshita and Fujisawa CITATION showed, perhaps surprisingly, that conformational or charge differences induced by metal ion binding to SDS-denatured polypeptides were sufficient to significantly shift their apparent molecular mass during electrophoresis. Kameshita and Fujisawa CITATION and later Gye et al. CITATION used this assay to show a pattern of shifting polypeptides in protein samples from different mammalian tissues. However, apart from the use of known divalent cation-binding proteins as controls, these authors did not identity these shifting proteins. Here we have used the shifting property to purify small quantities of proteins and then identified them with mass spectrometry. The analysis revealed a selection of known and unknown putative divalent metal ion-binding proteins in plant mitochondria. Clearly a range of known metal-binding proteins in the mitochondrial electron transport chain, metabolism and proteolysis machinery were not identified in our analysis. This suggests their metal-binding sites were either not present following detergent denaturation or they did not shift mobility by metal binding. In order to identify these proteins alternative metal affinity methods need to be exploited and/or developed. However, in our hands, this simple electrophoretic approach provides a valuable initial tool for the enrichment of putative metal-binding proteins from complex mixtures and could be broadly and easily applied to other biological systems.
!~MM~! A heterotrophic A. thaliana cell culture, established from callus of ecotype Lansberg erecta stem explants, was maintained on Murashige and Skoog basal media supplemented with 3% (w/v) sucrose, 0.5 mg/l naphthaleneacetic acid and 0.05 mg/l kinetin CITATION . The cell cultures were grown in 250 ml conical flasks in the dark at 22°C in an orbital shaker (150 rpm). At 6–7 days after sub-culture, mitochondria were isolated from these cell suspension cultures using Percoll density gradient centrifugation according to Millar et al. CITATION . Two-dimensional SDS–PAGE was performed primarily according to Kameshita and Fujisawa CITATION . The first dimension SDS–PAGE was performed according to standard protocols, except that either CaCl 2 (2 mM) or EDTA (2 mM) was added to both the separating and stacking phases before polymerisation. Mitochondria samples (100 μg protein/lane) were boiled briefly before loading. Once the first dimension was completed, individual lanes were cut from the gel and incubated in an equilibration buffer (0.125 mM Tris–HCl pH 6.5, 0.1% (w/v) SDS, 20% (w/v) glycerol, 2% β-mercaptoethanol, 0.001% (w/v) bromophenol blue) containing either CaCl 2 (2 mM) or EDTA (2 mM) for 10 min. The equilibrated gel slices were then placed horizontally onto second-dimension SDS–PAGE gels polymerised in either 2 mM CaCl 2 or 2 mM EDTA. The first-dimension gel slices were sealed in place by 1% (w/v) Agarose in gel running buffer. Once the second SDS–PAGE was completed, gels were stained using colloidal Coomassie (17% (w/v) ammonium sulphate, 34% (v/v) methanol, 3% (v/v) phosphoric acid, 0.1% (w/v) Coomassie brilliant blue G250) for 16 h and destained in 0.5% (v/v) phosphoric acid. To examine the reproducibility of protein mobility shifts, various combinations of EDTA and CaCl 2 were used between the first- and second-dimension gel separations. Once stained, protein spots clearly shifted off the diagonal of bulk protein were sampled as gel plugs from cut pipette tip excisions, and removed for MS/MS analysis. Q-TOF MS/MS was performed on an Applied Biosystems Q-STAR Pulsar (Q-TOF MS) using an IonSpray source. Proteins to be analysed were cut from 2-D PAGE gels, destained, dried at 50°C in a dry block heater, trypsinated according to CITATION and stored at −70°C. For the sequencing analysis, resultant peptides were injected in 50% methanol/0.1% formic acid and selected doubly charged peptides fragmented by N 2 collision and analysed by MS/MS. Mass spectra and collision MS/MS data were analysed with BioAnalyst software (Applied Biosystems, Sydney, Australia) and Mascot ( http://www.matrixscience.com ) to identify matching Arabidopsis protein entries. Sub-cellular targeting of predicted protein sequences was performed with TargetP ( http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/ ), Predotar ( http://www.inra.fr/Internet/Produits/Predotar/ ) and MitoProtII ( http://www.mips.biochem.mpg.de/cgi-bin/proj/medgen/mitofilter ) as directed on these websites.
