!~ABS~! Chloroplast division in plant cells is orchestrated by a complex macromolecular machine with components positioned on both the inner and outer envelope surfaces. The only plastid division proteins identified to date are of endosymbiotic origin and are localized inside the organelle. Employing positional cloning methods in Arabidopsis in conjunction with a novel strategy for pinpointing the mutant locus, we have identified a gene encoding a new chloroplast division protein, ARC5. Mutants of ARC5 exhibit defects in chloroplast constriction, have enlarged, dumbbell-shaped chloroplasts, and are rescued by a wild-type copy of ARC5. The ARC5 gene product shares similarity with the dynamin family of GTPases, which mediate endocytosis, mitochondrial division, and other organellar fission and fusion events in eukaryotes. Phylogenetic analysis showed that ARC5 is related to a group of dynamin-like proteins unique to plants. A GFP–ARC5 fusion protein localizes to a ring at the chloroplast division site. Chloroplast import and protease protection assays indicate that the ARC5 ring is positioned on the outer surface of the chloroplast. Thus, ARC5 is the first cytosolic component of the chloroplast division complex to be identified. ARC5 has no obvious counterparts in prokaryotes, suggesting that it evolved from a dynamin-related protein present in the eukaryotic ancestor of plants. These results indicate that the chloroplast division apparatus is of mixed evolutionary origin and that it shares structural and mechanistic similarities with both the cell division machinery of bacteria and the dynamin-mediated organellar fission machineries of eukaryotes.
!~RES~! Like other chloroplast division mutants, leaf mesophyll cells in arc5 (Ler) mutants contain fewer and larger chloroplasts than do wild type cells, which have about 120 chloroplasts at maturity (CITATION, CITATION) (Fig. FIG-REFA). The arc5 mutant has been reported to contain an average of 13 chloroplasts in fully expanded mesophyll cells (CITATION, CITATION), although the phenotype appears somewhat more variable in our hands, with arc5 cells typically containing between 3 and 15 chloroplasts (Fig. FIG-REF B and C). This difference may reflect differences in growth conditions. Chloroplast number is fairly uniform within an individual arc5 plant, and, as shown for other arc mutants (CITATION), chloroplast size in arc5 varies inversely with chloroplast number (not shown). As has been reported previously (CITATION, CITATION), arc5 chloroplasts frequently remain dumbbell shaped (Fig. FIG-REFB). ARC5 was previously mapped to a region of chromosome 3 flanked by the markers nga162 (20.6 cM) and AtDMC1 (32.6 cM) (CITATION) (Fig. FIG-REFA Upper). We generated a new mapping population and used standard methods to fine map the arc5 locus to a 92-kb interval corresponding to two overlapping BAC clones, MMB12 and MPN9 (Fig. FIG-REFA Lower). This interval contained 24 predicted genes, but no clear ARC5 candidate. To identify the gene most likely to represent ARC5, we digested MMB12 and MPN9 with restriction enzymes, and subcloned the resulting fragments between the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and octopine synthase terminator in a derivative of the plant transformation vector pART27 (CITATION), creating a library of fragments spanning the arc5-containing interval. The library was designed such that at least one fragment from each predicted gene in the interval would be ligated to the vector in the antisense orientation, with the expectation that an antisense fragment from ARC5 would yield an arc5-like phenotype. The library was used to transform wild-type Arabidopsis plants (Col-0), and transgenic plants were screened for chloroplast division defects by microscopy.  [[FIGURE]] Among 120 independent T1 individuals examined, two had fewer and larger chloroplasts per cell than wild type (Fig. FIG-REFE), and resembled arc5. The inserts carried by the transgenes in these two transgenic lines were amplified by PCR and sequenced. Two different inserts were detected in both lines (Fig. FIG-REFC). One line carried a fragment derived from the BAC backbone DNA and a second fragment derived from At3g19730 on MMB12 (Fig. FIG-REFC, lane 2). The other line carried a fragment from At3g19760 on MMB12 as well as the same fragment from At3g19730 (Fig. FIG-REFC, arrow). In both plants, the At3g19730 fragment was present in the antisense orientation. To confirm that the arc5-like plastid division phenotype in the two transgenic lines was caused by the shared At3g19730 fragment, we constructed a transgene containing this fragment in the antisense orientation, and introduced it into wild-type Arabidopsis (Col-0). Of 80 transgenic plants examined under the microscope, 20% had chloroplast division defects similar to those of arc5 and the transgenic line shown in Fig. FIG-REFE. These findings indicated that the ARC5 gene corresponded to At3g19730. At3g19730 has homology to the dynamin family of GTPases (CITATION). In the Arabidopsis database, At3g19730 and the immediately adjacent sequence, At3g19720, were annotated as separate genes. However, sequence alignments to other dynamin-like proteins as well as EST data from Arabidopsis and other plants strongly suggested they were parts of a single gene, referred to hereafter as At3g19730/At3g19720, and that the annotated start codon for At3g19730 and stop codon for At3g19720 represented the true start and stop codons of this gene. This was confirmed by subsequent cDNA isolation and analysis (see below). To establish whether arc5 contained a mutation in this region of the genome, we sequenced the At3g19730/At3g19720 locus in both the arc5 mutant and in wild-type Landsberg erecta. The data showed the presence in arc5 of a G-to-A mutation, which altered a tryptophan codon (TGG) to a stop codon (TAG) (Fig. FIG-REFB). We then introduced a transgene containing the predicted At3g19730/At3g19720 locus plus 1.9 kb and 1.1 kb of the 5′ and 3′ flanking DNA, respectively, into arc5 mutants to determine whether the wild-type DNA could complement the arc5 mutation. Microscopic analysis of T1 transgenic plants indicated that the chloroplast division defect in the mutant was fully or partially rescued by the wild-type transgene (Fig. FIG-REFG). Differences in gene dosage resulting from position effects probably account for the partial complementation in some individuals (CITATION). Taken together, the point mutation in At3g19730/At3g19720 in arc5, complementation of the mutant phenotype by the wild-type gene, and ability of a fragment from At3g19730/At3g19720 to confer an arc5-like phenotype in wild-type plants when expressed in the antisense orientation, indicate that the ARC5 locus and At3g19730/At3g19720 represent the same gene. To gain more information on the ARC5 transcription unit and encoded polypeptide, we used RT-PCR and primers spanning from 93 bp upstream to 152 bp downstream of the predicted At3g19730/At3g19720 start and stop codons, respectively, to amplify the corresponding cDNA. Sequence analysis revealed two distinct cDNA species. The longer cDNA contained a sequence that was spliced out of the shorter cDNA as the 15th intron (Fig. FIG-REFB); however, its presence in the longer cDNA did not interrupt the reading frame. More than half of the cDNA clones recovered were of this type. This cDNA encoded a protein of 777 aa (Fig. FIG-REFA) and 87.2 kDa. The protein can be aligned over its entire length with numerous members of the dynamin family and contains three motifs found in other dynamin-like proteins: a conserved N-terminal GTPase domain, a pleckstrin homology (PH) domain shown in some proteins to mediate membrane association, and a C-terminal GTPase effector domain thought to interact directly with the GTPase domain and to mediate self-assembly (CITATION, CITATION) (Fig. FIG-REFA). The shorter cDNA encoded a protein of 741 aa and 83.5 kDa identical to that of the larger gene product except for the absence of 36 aa encoded by the sequence of the 15th intron (Figs. FIG-REFB and FIG-REFA). These results suggest that the ARC5 transcript is alternatively spliced. Alternative splicing of dynamin genes in several other organisms has also been documented (CITATION). Because the shorter gene product lacks a portion of the PH domain (Fig. FIG-REFA), the proteins encoded by the two splice variants may have different activities or localization patterns.  [[FIGURE]] Phylogenetic analysis was performed to investigate the relationship between ARC5 and other members of the dynamin family of proteins. Only full-length sequences were used, although EST data indicate that related proteins are present in many plants and in green algae (not shown). ARC5 clustered with a group of proteins found in plants, but was in a distinct clade from other dynamin-like proteins in Arabidopsis with functions in cell-plate formation and mitochondrial division (CITATION, CITATION) (Fig. FIG-REFB). Surprisingly, the ARC5-like proteins clustered near ADL6, another Arabidopsis dynamin-like protein involved in vesicle trafficking from the transGolgi network to the vacuole in plants (CITATION). This suggests that ARC5 and ADL6 could share a common dynamin-like ancestor. Based on the similarity of ARC5 to dynamin and its relatives (Fig. FIG-REFA), we conclude that ARC5 represents a new class of a dynamin-like proteins that functions specifically in chloroplast division. We expressed a GFP–ARC5 fusion protein in transgenic plants to investigate the subcellular localization of ARC5. Because overexpression of chloroplast FtsZ proteins can result in a dominant-negative phenotype (CITATION), we used the native ARC5 promoter to create the GFP–ARC5 transgene for expression in wild-type plants (Col-0). Fluorescence microscopy showed that the fusion protein was localized in a ring-like pattern at the site of the chloroplast constriction (Fig. FIG-REF). This ring could be faintly detected in unconstricted chloroplasts, suggesting that ARC5 may act at an earlier stage of division than previously hypothesized (CITATION, CITATION). However, ARC5 is not required for FtsZ ring formation, the earliest known event in the assembly of the chloroplast division apparatus (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), because the FtsZ ring can be detected in the arc5 mutant (not shown). The GFP–ARC5 fusion protein was most obvious in visibly constricted chloroplasts, perhaps as a consequence of ring thickening during constriction. Similar localization patterns have been described for FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 (CITATION). However, in contrast to the FtsZ rings, which are fairly uniform in fluorescence intensity, the GFP–ARC5 ring was more speckled in appearance (Fig. FIG-REF), suggesting that ARC5 localization at the division site may be discontinuous or that the ARC5-containing ring is not of uniform composition.  [[FIGURE]] Even though ARC5 mediates chloroplast division, it is not predicted by subcellular targeting prediction programs to be imported to the chloroplast (results not shown). To further define the topology of the ARC5-containing ring with respect to the chloroplast envelope membranes, we used in vitro chloroplast import and protease protection assays. A radiolabeled translation product corresponding to the longer ARC5 cDNA was generated by coupled transcription/translation (Fig. FIG-REF Top, lane 1), then incubated with isolated pea chloroplasts (Fig. FIG-REF Top, lanes 2–5). Subsequent fractionation of the chloroplasts indicated that the translation product was associated with the membrane fraction, but was not processed (Fig. FIG-REF Top, lanes 2 and 3). The binding of the ARC5 translation product to isolated chloroplasts may be effected in part by the PH domain, which has been shown to mediate lipid binding of other dynamin-like proteins (CITATION, CITATION). In contrast, two chloroplast-targeted control proteins, one localized to the inner envelope (Fig. FIG-REF Middle) and the other to the stroma (Fig. FIG-REF Bottom), were processed on import, consistent with the presence of N-terminal transit peptides, and associated with the membrane and soluble chloroplast fractions, respectively (Fig. FIG-REF Middle and Bottom, lanes 2 and 3). In addition, the two control proteins were both protected from proteolysis by thermolysin, which does not penetrate the outer envelope (CITATION) (Fig. FIG-REF Middle and Bottom, lanes 4 and 5), whereas the ARC5 translation product was fully degraded by this protease (Fig. FIG-REF Top, lanes 4 and 5). These data provide evidence that the ARC5-containing ring represented by the GFP–ARC5 fusion protein is situated on the cytosolic surface of the outer chloroplast envelope membrane. The position of ARC5 on the chloroplast surface is topologically equivalent to that of Dnm1p, a dynamin-like protein that mediates mitochondrial division in yeast (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana strains Columbia (Col-0) and Landsberg erecta (Ler) were used for all experiments as indicated. The arc5 mutant was identified in the Ler background by Pyke and Leech (CITATION). Plants were grown as described (CITATION). Phenotypes were analyzed as previously described (CITATION), except that the images were recorded with a Coolpix 995 digital camera (Nikon Corporation, Tokyo). For in vivo detection of GFP, fresh leaf tissue was mounted in water and viewed with an L5 filter set (excitation 455–495 nm, emission 512–575 nm) and a ×100 oil immersion objective of a Leica DMR A2 microscope (Leica, Wetzlar, Germany) equipped with epifluorescence illumination. Images were captured with a cooled charge-coupled device camera (Retiga 1350EX, Qimaging, Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada) and processed with photoshop imaging software (Adobe Systems, San Jose, CA). The arc5 mutation was previously mapped between markers nga162 (20.6 centiMorgan, cM) and AtDMC1 (32.6 cM) on chromosome 3 (CITATION). To fine map ARC5, an F2 population was generated from a cross between arc5 and Col-0 wild type. Of 7,000 F2 plants, 1,720 mutants were identified by microscopy. Markers used for PCR-based mapping (CITATION) are provided in Table 1, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site, www.pnas.org. Bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones MMB12 and MPN9 were double-digested with HincII and HindIII. The resulting fragments were inserted between the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the octopine synthase terminator in the plasmid SN506 (CITATION), which had been previously digested with SmaI and HindIII to remove the insert. Ligation products were amplified in Escherichia coli strain DH5α, transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101, and introduced into wild-type Arabidopsis (Col-0) by floral dipping as described (CITATION). T1 transgenic plants were selected by growth on kanamycin and screened for an arc5-like phenotype by microscopy. The T-DNA inserts from the two arc5-like plants identified were amplified by PCR using vector primers flanking the inserts. The PCR products were sequenced to determine which fragments from the BAC clones were carried by these plants, as well as their orientation with respect to the promoter. Both plants carried the same HindIII-HincII fragment from At3g19730 (see Results). To confirm that this fragment was the source of the arc5-like phenotype in the T1 transgenics, the fragment was subcloned into SN506 in the antisense orientation as described above and introduced into wild-type Col-0 plants. After selection on kanamycin, the phenotypes of the resulting T1 plants were determined by microscopy. Primers used for RT-PCR were 5′-GAAAAAGGAACGGCGACGAAAAC-3′ and 5′-GCAAACATTGGACCAAAAAGCG-3′. Amplified cDNAs were subcloned into Bluescript KS+ (Stratagene) before sequencing. The amino acid sequence of ARC5 was deduced from the cDNA sequence. The sequence alignment shown in Fig. FIG-REFA was performed with the clustalw multiple alignment program (CITATION) at the Biology Workbench 3.2 web site (http://biowb.sdsc.edu/). Protein sequences used for the phylogenetic analysis shown in Fig. FIG-REFB were aligned with clustal x (CITATION) using default settings. The alignment is available on request. Neighbor joining and maximum parsimony analyses were performed by using paup version 4.0b10 (CITATION) with default settings except for ties being randomly broken. Neighbor-joining and maximum parsimony analyses produced topologically identical trees. Bootstrap analyses were performed on the neighbor-joining and maximum parsimony trees with one thousand replications. GenBank accession numbers for proteins aligned with ARC5 (longer form, accession no. AY212885) are as follows: human Dynamin-1 (NP_004399), yeast Dnm1p (NP_013100), At1g53140 (NP_175722), rice dynamin like protein (BAB56031), ADL6 (AAF22291), At5g42080 (NP_568602), Glycine phragmoplastin (AAB05992), tobacco phragmoplastin (CAB56619), At2g44590 (NP_181987), human Dynamin II (NP_004936), ADL2a (NP_567931), ADL2b (NP_565362), rice ADL2-like protein (BAB86118), worm Drp-1 (AAL56621), and human Dnm1p/Vps1p-like protein (JC5695). The genomic fragment corresponding to ARC5 (At3g19730 and At3g19720 in the Arabidopsis database, see Results), including 1.9 kb and 1.1 kb of the 5′ and 3′ flanking DNA, respectively, was amplified from MMB12 by PCR using the primers 5′-GGAATTCCGAGTCGAGTTGCTTTGTTG-3′ and 5′-CGTCTAGAGCTTACCTCAAAGGTACATGGA-3′. The PCR product was digested with EcoRI and ligated into a derivative of the transformation vector pLH7000 (www.dna-cloning-service.com/binaries.htm) digested with EcoRI and SmaI. The construct was transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 and introduced into arc5 plants by floral dipping. The phenotypes of the T1 plants were determined by microscopy. The GFP sequence was amplified from plasmid smRS-GFP (CITATION) with the primers 5′-CGGGATCCATGAGTAAAGGAGAAGAACT-3′ and 5′-GCTCTAGATAGTTCATCCATGCCATGT-3′. The PCR product was digested with BamHI and XbaI. The ARC5 coding region and 1.1 kb of the 3′ flanking DNA were amplified from the MMB12 BAC clone with primers 5′-GGACTAGTACGATGGCGGAAGTATCAGC-3′ and 5′-CGGGATCCGCACCGAAGGAGCCTTTAGATT-3′. The PCR product was digested with SpeI and EcoRI. cDNA fragments encoding GFP and ARC5 were subcloned into Bluescript KS+ (Stratagene) that had been digested with EcoRI and BamHI to create a GFP–ARC5 fusion construct. The ARC5 promoter was amplified from MMB12 with primers 5′-GACTAGTTGGCTCAACGCTTACCTCAA-3′ and 5′-CGGGATCCGCCATCGTCTCTTACGA-3′, and cloned into Bluescript KS+ (Stratagene) between the SpeI and BamHI sites. The promoter fragment was then subcloned into the plasmid containing the GFP–ARC5 fusion construct at the 5′ end of the fusion. The resulting plasmid was digested with SpeI and EcoRI, and the promoter-GFP–ARC5 cassette was subcloned into a derivative of the transformation vector pLH7000 (www.dna-cloning-service.com/binaries.htm). The plasmid was transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 and used to transform wild-type A. thaliana plants (Col-0) as described above. The GFP–ARC5 localization pattern was visualized by fluorescence microscopy in T1 plants. Transcription/translation reactions, chloroplast isolation, in vitro import reactions, proteolytic treatments, and postimport fractionation and analysis were performed as described (CITATION). The longer ARC5 cDNA, after subcloning into Bluescript KS+ as described above, was used for these experiments.
