!~ABS~! The expression of many seed storage protein genes in cereals relies on transcription factors of the bZIP class, belonging to the maize OPAQUE2 family. Here, we describe a survey of such factors in the genome of Arabidopsis thaliana, and the characterization of two of them, AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25. Expression analysis by in situ hybridization shows that the occurrence of their mRNAs in the seed starts from early stages of development, peaks at maturation, and declines later in seed development, matching temporally and spatially those of the seed storage protein genes encoding 2S albumins and cruciferins. Gel mobility shift assays showed that AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25 bind the ACGT boxes present in At2S and CRU3 promoters. Moreover, using the yeast two-hybrid system we show that AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25 can interact in vivo with ABI3, an important regulator of gene expression in the seed of Arabidopsis. Transient expression analyses of a reporter gene under the control of the At2S1 promoter in transgenic plants overexpressing ectopically AtbZIP10, AtbZIP25, and ABI3 reveal that none of these factors could activate significantly the reporter gene when expressed individually. However, co-expression of AtbZIP10/25 with ABI3 resulted in a remarkable increase in the activation capacity over the At2S1 promoter, suggesting that they are part of a regulatory complex involved in seed-specific expression. This study shows a common mechanism of ABI3 in regulating different seed-specific genes through combinatorial interactions with particular bZIP proteins and a conserved role of O2-like bZIPs in monocot and dicot species. 
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis Genome Contains Four Genes Encoding OPAQUE2-related bZIPs—The completion of the A. thaliana sequencing project (CITATION) facilitates the identification of genes encoding defined protein families within the genome. O2-related bZIPs have several features that make them distinguishable from other members of the bZIP group of TFs (Fig. 1A). The bZIP region has an extended zipper comprising up to nine leucine heptad repeats with a high degree of sequence conservation; outside this domain, other sequence signatures are also shared specifically within the O2 family. Among 75 bZIP-encoding genes annotated in the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION, CITATION), comprehensive sequence searches (see “Experimental Procedures”) using both the conserved bZIP region and the different signatures (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION) schematically represented in Fig. 1A, allowed the identification of four genes, AtbZIP10, AtbZIP25, AtbZIP63, and AtbZIP9 as the only members of the O2 family in Arabidopsis. Naming of these genes followed the nomenclature proposed by the EU-Regulatory Gene Initiative in the Arabidopsis project (CITATION). Amino acid sequence alignments and comparisons with other O2 members in different plant species, led to the recognition of similar structural signatures common to these TFs. The results of such analyses are summarized in Fig. 1A, where the occurrence of domains 1–6, alongside the conserved bZIP region, is indicated for each individual member of the family. Among the four Arabidopsis O2-like bZIP proteins, AtbZIP10 shares the maximum number of conserved domains with members of the family in other species, and in particular with maize O2 and O2-like cereal proteins. The phylogenetic tree in Fig. 1B, based on sequence similarities of the bZIP region, shows that AtbZIP25 is very closely related to AtbZIP10, suggesting that both genes might represent redundant functions. AtbZIP63 forms a clade together with parsley CPFR2 and soybean G/HBF, two dicot bZIPs putatively involved in responses to pathogen and environmental stress (CITATION, CITATION). Finally, AtbZIP9 is related to RITA1 and other rice bZIPs of yet unknown functions (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]]  AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25 Are Expressed in the Developing Seed—For a transcription factor to participate in the regulation of seed storage protein genes, a necessary requisite is to be expressed in the developing seed. Consequently, the expression patterns of the four O2-like bZIPs from Arabidopsis were investigated by Northern blot analysis. Total RNA samples isolated from different tissues, including siliques at two developmental stages, were hybridized after electrophoretic separation to gene-specific probes corresponding to AtbZIP10, AtbZIP25, AtbZIP63, and AtbZIP9 genes. As shown in Fig. 2 the four genes are expressed in roots (R), shoots (S), rosette leaves (L), and flowers (F), but only hybridization to the AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25 probes presented intense signals in lanes S1 and S2, containing RNAs from siliques.  [[FIGURE]]  If AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25 were regulators of SSP gene expression, an overlapping pattern of expression of these genes should be anticipated. To explore this possible relationship, the same blot was subsequently hybridized with a probe specific for a 2S albumin gene. The peak for the TF genes was at the S1 stage whereas that for the 2S gene was at the later S2 stage of silique development. The patterns of AtbZIP10/25 and 2S mRNA accumulation are therefore consistent with the possibility of the former being regulators of this SSP gene.  To clarify whether the signals detected in Northern blots derived specifically from the seed or from other silique tissues, a more precise expression analysis, namely in situ mRNA hybridization, was done for these genes (Fig. 3). AtbZIP63 and AtbZIP9 mRNAs could not be detected in developing seeds, AtbZIP9 expression being restricted to the valve vascular veins in the siliques (data not shown). In contrast, expression in the seed could be clearly detected for AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25, whose patterns of expression were found to be identical throughout seed development. AtbZIP10/25 transcripts were present from early stages of development both in the developing embryo and, at lower levels, in the endosperm. Expression of AtbZIP10/25 decreased as development proceeded. At later stages, they were expressed at very low levels in the mature embryo and the remaining endosperm, but were strongly up-regulated in the inner layer of the seed coat. AtbZIP10/25 RNA could also be detected in the lignified inner subepidermal layer of the valves. To test for possible overlapping patterns of expression of AtbZIP10/25 and ABI3, an important regulator of gene expression in the Arabidopsis seed (CITATION), in situ hybridization with an ABI3 probe was also performed. ABI3 RNA was detected in the embryos, endosperm, and outer teguments of the seed throughout seed development, with a pattern similar to that previously shown for AtbZIP10/25. However, in contrast to AtbZIP10/25 expression, which is detected preferentially in the embryo, ABI3 RNA levels were high, both in the endosperm and in the embryo, even at later stages of seed development. In mature seeds, ABI3 expression was also strong in the outer layers of the seed coat  [[FIGURE]]  AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25 Bind to ACGT Core Sequences in Seed Storage Protein Gene Promoter; Effect of ABI3 on Binding Affinities—Arabidopsis major seed storage proteins are the arabidins (2S albumins) and cruciferins (12S globulins). While 2S albumins map to a single locus, as a four tandem repeat, with minimal sequence divergence, cruciferins comprise a gene family with at least three different members (CRU1, CRU2, and CRU3). All these genes are expressed in the embryo in a coordinated fashion during the early and midstages of seed maturation. Sequence comparisons of these Arabidopsis SSP gene promoters revealed the presence of conserved ACGT boxes. Similar boxes in Brassica napin promoters have been shown to be critical for their expression in seeds (CITATION). The finding that the Arabidopsis AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25 spatial and temporal patterns of expression in developing embryos overlap with those of At2S and At12S genes, prompted us to investigate whether these factors could recognize in vitro the conserved ACGT boxes present in these SSP gene promoters. To this end, AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25 proteins expressed in Escherichia coli or produced in vitro, were tested for their ability to bind different oligonucleotide sequences containing ACGT boxes derived from At2S1 and CRU3 promoters. These boxes present adjacent RY regulatory elements (CATGCATG) in these promoters (schematically represented in Fig. 4A). In Fig. 4B the results of EMSA demonstrate that the AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25 binding to these sequences occurs specifically through the ACGT boxes, since mutations (AaGg) introduced at this core abolished the interaction in the context of both At21S and CRU3 promoters.  [[FIGURE]]  ABI3 has been previously demonstrated to be an important regulator of 2S albumin and cruciferin genes, since abi3 mutants display a significant, although not complete, reduction in the expression levels of SSP genes (CITATION). The ABI3 protein has a modular structure with high sequence similarity to the maize Viviparous1 (Vp1) gene product (CITATION). Similar to VP1, ABI3 has a B3 domain, but its ability to bind DNA through this domain has not been described. In addition, both VP1 and ABI3 contain a B2 domain, reported in VP1 to increase the DNA binding affinity of different proteins, including O2 (CITATION). We have detected that AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25, as well as ABI3 are coexpressed in the same tissues during seed development, and that AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25 bind to ACGT core sequences in the promoters of SSP genes expressed herein too. It was pertinent, therefore, to check whether possible changes in their binding affinities were produced in the presence of ABI3. In vitro, EMSA experiments shown in Fig. 4C, display the binding behavior of different amounts of AtbZIP10 or O2 proteins incubated with target DNA sequences. A clear increase in the binding of both proteins to their target sites was obtained in the presence of ABI3 (see lanes under +ABI3 in Fig. 4C) as compared with controls lacking the ABI3 protein. In analogous experiments performed with AtbZIP25, we were unable to see an increase of the binding affinity in the presence of ABI3 (data not shown).  In Vivo Interactions between AtbZIP10/25 and ABI3 in the Yeast Two-hybrid System—AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25 display high sequence similarity between them and are closely related to other bZIPs of the O2 family over particular protein regions. Two of the shared signatures (1 and 2 in Fig. 1A) span the activation domain AD-I. To test their potential as transcriptional activators, as well as their putative interactions with ABI3, the yeast one- and two-hybrid systems were used (Fig. 5). Yeast plasmid vectors were generated to express proteins containing the GAL4 DNA-binding domain as N-terminal fusions to the complete AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25 factors or their C-terminal regions. When these vectors were transformed into appropriate yeast strains, activation of the reporter activity was detected in both cases (see Fig. 5D), AtbZIP10 being a much stronger activator than AtbZIP25 in this system as shown by the higher concentration of 3AT required to counter-act its growth in His-depleted medium. As in other O2-like factors, we could map the activation capacity in the N-terminal region of both proteins, since GAL4BD-fusions to the C-terminal fragments fail to induce reporter activities compared with the complete proteins (e.g. see Fig. 5C for AtbZIP25).  [[FIGURE]]  Yeast two-hybrid experiments were performed at two different temperatures, 30 °C (standard conditions) and 23 °C (commonly used to disclose weaker interactions). The results of a systematic analysis to check for possible interactions between AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25 with ABI3 are also reflected in Fig. 5. Since ABI3 is very potent activator in yeast (our data not shown) constructs of ABI3 were prepared in the plasmid containing the GAL4 activation domain. Two different constructs were generated encompassing the N- (residues 1–525) or C-terminal (residues 400–720) regions of the ABI3 protein fused to GAL4-AD (AD-ABI3N and AD-ABI3C, respectively) These constructs and an empty vector containing the AD domain alone, were transformed into yeast strains expressing fusions of the GAL4 DNA-binding domain (BD) to the complete or C-terminal regions of AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25 proteins. Liquid medium assays of β-galactosidase activity were performed for each combination of AD and DB vectors and represented as percentages relative to basal activities obtained for BD constructs cotransformed with empty AD vectors (100% values). The results of such analyses are displayed in Fig. 5B, showing that AtbZIP10 and ABI3 are able to interact through the N-terminal regions of both proteins. Likewise, an interaction between the ABI3 N and AtbZIP25 C-terminal region was also detected. Interactions between AtbZIP25 and ABI3 could not be reliably reproduced at 30 °C, but lowering incubation temperatures to 23 °C resulted in consistent data in all replicated experiments.  To confirm the interactions observed, a strain with HIS reporter activity, driven through GAL4 binding sites in the context of a different promoter, was used. In Fig. 5D, basal levels of HIS activity, derived from intrinsic activation of AtbZIP10 or AtbZIP25, could be eliminated at precise concentrations of 3-AT. Nevertheless, these concentrations resulted inefficient when cells were cotransformed with AD vectors containing the interacting protein regions previously described.  Seed-specific Gene Activation by Ectopic Expression of AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25 in Conjunction with ABI3—In the absence of mutants, to explore the possible involvement of AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25 in the regulation of SSP genes, we decided to study the effects of ectopic overexpression of these factors on the activation of a reporter gene under control of a 2S albumin promoter. Transgenic plants expressing AtbZIP10 or AtbZIP25 under the CaMV35S promoter were generated and checked for overexpression of these genes by Northern-blot analysis of leaf tissue. Leaves of these plants were used in experiments of transient expression analysis after particle bombardment. As expected for a seed-specific gene, activity of the 2S promoter::GUS reporter was minimal in leaf tissue of wild-type plants. When this construct was bombarded into leaves overexpressing either AtbZIP10 or AtbZIP25 (Fig. 6A, lanes 3 and 5), a significant although moderate increase of reporter activity was observed over controls. The interactions detected between these bZIP factors and ABI3 in the yeast two-hybrid system (Fig. 5) led us to explore their possible functional relevance in planta. Using wild-type plants we tested the activation effect of ABI3 on the 2S-driven reporter activity and determined that it was of a low range, similar to that observed for AtbZIP10 or AtbZIP25 alone. In contrast, transformation of ABI3 in transgenic tissue overexpressing AtbZIP10 or AtbZIP25 resulted in a significant increment of reporter activity (Fig. 6A, lanes 4 and 6). To validate the significance of these observations, the reciprocal experiment was performed using stably transformed transgenic plants overexpressing ABI3 (35S::ABI3). In this background, the same reporter construct, 2S::GUS, was transiently expressed either alone (Fig. 6B, lanes 1 and 4) or in combination with AtbZIP10 or AtbZIP25 as effectors (Fig. 6B, lanes 2, 5, and 3, 6, respectively). In Fig. 6B, the synergistic activation effect resulting from the combination of any of the Arabidopsis bZIP factors (AtbZIP10 or AtbZIP25) with ABI3, on 2S::GUS reporter activity, fully confirmed the previous observations (Fig. 6A).  [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Plant Material—Arabidopsis thaliana seeds from Columbia (Col-0) and C24 were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Ohio). Seeds from A. thaliana C24 expressing ectopically ABI3 (CITATION) were obtained from the authors. Plants were grown under standard conditions in growth chambers at 22 °C with a 16-h photoperiod.  Isolation and Analyses of cDNAs and Genomic Clones of O2-like bZIPs—cDNAs encoding AtbZIP9, -10, -25, and -63 were obtained from public Expressed Sequence Tag (EST) collections or amplified by reverse transcriptase-PCR. The corresponding genomic clones were isolated from an A. thaliana library prepared in λGEM11 (Promega), kindly donated by J. Paz-Ares. Screening of the Arabidopsis genomic library was performed following general procedures (CITATION) with gene-specific probes corresponding to cDNA fragments encoding the following protein regions: AtbZIP9, aa 1–100; AtbZIP10, aa 1–125; AtbZIP25, aa 300–403; AtbZIP63, aa 220–314 and previously shown not to cross-hybridize. DNA sequences were obtained using the ABI PRISM 377 dye terminator sequencing system and the ABI PRISM 377 DNA sequence analyzer (PerkinElmer-Applied Biosystems). Analyses of DNA and deduced protein sequences were done with computer services under the European Bioinformatics Institute (www.ebi.ac.uk/). Sequence alignments and phylogenetic analyses were performed using ClustalW and Phyllip packages, respectively, at the server of the DNA Data Bank of Japan (www.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/). Detection of conserved domains in protein sequences was done with MAST/MEME tools (meme.sdsc.edu/meme/website/meme.html).  Northern Blots and in Situ Hybridization Analyses—Northern blot analysis was performed using total RNA from different Arabidopsis tissues as described in Ref. CITATION. Gene-specific probes (see above) were labeled by random priming following standard procedures (CITATION). In situ hybridization was performed according to Ref. CITATION with digoxigenin-labeled antisense RNA probes generated according to the manufacturer's specifications (Roche Diagnostics). Gene-specific probes, described above, were cloned into pGEM-T easy (Promega), and labeled RNA was synthesized on linearized templates using T7 or SP6 polymerase depending on insert orientation. An ABI3-specific probe was obtained by PCR amplification of a cDNA fragment corresponding to the last 103 aa of the ABI3 protein. This fragment was cloned into pGEM-T easy and used to synthesize RNA probes following the same procedure.  Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assays (EMSAs)—The cDNAs encoding AtbZIP10, AtbZIP25, and ABI3 proteins were cloned into the expression vector pRSET-B (Invitrogen), and O2 cDNA into pGEX-2T vector (Amersham Biosciences) as a translational fusion to glutathione S-transferase (GST). After transformation into the appropriate strains, BL21(DE3)/pLysS and XL1-Blue, recombinant proteins were induced with 1 mm isopropyl-β-d-thio-galactopyranoside (IPTG) for 1 h, and cellular pellets were used to prepare crude protein extracts. Alternatively, proteins were synthesized using the TnT system (Promega). Experimental conditions for electrophoretic mobility shift assays were essentially as previously described (CITATION, CITATION). Probes were generated by annealing overlapping oligonucleotides, corresponding to specific regions of the AtS1 and CRU3 promoters. The following oligonucleotides were used: ATS1WTS, 5′-TTCTTACACGTGAA-3′; ATS1WTAS, 5′-GAGTTCACGTGTAAGAA-3′; ATS1MTS, 5′-TTCTTACAaGgGAA-3′; ATS1MTAS, 5′-GAGTTCcCtTGTAA-3′; and CRU3WTS, 5′-TAATCCTACGTGGC-3′; CRU3WTAS, 5′-TGAGCCACGTAGGA-3′; CRU3MTS, 5′-TAATCCTAaGgGGC-3′; CRU3WTAS, 5′-TGAGCCcCtTAGGA-3′. Probes were end-labeled with [32P]dATP by the fill-in reaction (Klenow exo-free DNA polymerase; United States Biochemical) and purified from an 8% polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (39:1 cross-linking). Binding reactions contained 0.5 ng of 32P-labeled probes.  Yeast Strains and Methods—Strains HF7c and SFY526 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae carrying LacZ (β-galactosidase) and HIS3 (imidazole glycerol phosphate dehydratase) reporter genes under the control of a truncated Gal1 promoter that contains Gal4-responsive elements (Gal1UAS) were obtained from Clontech. The effector plasmids pGBT9 and pGAD424 (Clontech), which contain the alcohol dehydrogenase I (AdhI) promoter fused to the Gal4 DNA binding domain (Gal4DBD; pGBT9 vector) or to the Gal4 DNA activation domain (Gal4AD, pGAD424 vector), respectively, were used to generate translational fusions with AtbZIP10, AtbZIP25, or ABI3 or with particular fragments derived from them (ABI3 N: aa 1–525, ABI3 C: aa 400–720; AtbZIP10 C: aa 184–410; and AtbZIP25 C: aa 200–403). All constructs were generated by PCR amplification with selected primers and verified for in-frame fusions and sequence fidelity. Yeast transformation, activity assays for β-galactosidase in liquid cultures and colony growth in His-depleted medium, were done at 30 or 23 °C, according to the manufacturer's instructions with minor modifications (CITATION, CITATION)  Particle Bombardment in Arabidopsis Leaves—Particle coating and bombardment were carried out basically according to Ref. CITATION with a biolistic Helium gun device (DuPont PDS-1000, BioRad), using rupture disks of 1,100 psi and a 6-cm distance between macrocarrier and target samples. Leaves from Arabidopsis plants grown under sterile conditions were isolated from a rosette stage, placed onto a 5-cm dish agar-MS/2 medium, and shot in sets of six. After bombardment leaves were incubated in the same plate for 24 h, and GUS activity was quantified by chemiluminescence (GUS light kit, Tropix) and expressed as relative luminescence units (RLU) per μg of protein.  AtS1::GUS reporter vector is a pUC19-derived plasmid containing the β-glucuronidase reporter gene under the control of the At2S1 promoter and fused to the 3′-terminator of the nopaline synthase gene (3′-nos). Effector plasmids for the expression of AtbZIP10, AtbZIP25, and ABI3 were generated by cloning the corresponding cDNAs under the control of the CaMV35S promoter and a 3′-nos terminator in pBSII (Stratagene). A. thaliana transgenic plants overexpressing AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP25, were generated by Agrobacterium transformation following procedures referred to in Ref. CITATION and using the vector pROKII, in which the expression of both cDNAs is driven by the CaMV35S promoter. Plants overexpressing ABI3, previously described (CITATION), were a kind gift from the authors. 
