!~ABS~! Cold temperatures trigger the expression of the CBF family of transcription factors, which in turn activate many downstream genes that confer chilling and freezing tolerance to plants. We report here the identification of ICE1 ( i nducer of C BF e xpression 1 ), an upstream transcription factor that regulates the transcription of CBFgenes in the cold. An Arabidopsis ice1 mutant was isolated in a screen for mutations that impair cold-induced transcription of aCBF3 promoter-luciferase reporter gene. The ice1mutation blocks the expression of CBF3 and decreases the expression of many genes downstream of CBFs, which leads to a significant reduction in plant chilling and freezing tolerance.ICE1 encodes a MYC-like bHLH transcriptional activator. ICE1 binds specifically to the MYC recognition sequences in the CBF3promoter. ICE1 is expressed constitutively, and its overexpression in wild-type plants enhances the expression of theCBF regulon in the cold and improves freezing tolerance of the transgenic plants. 
!~RES~! As noted above, Arabidopsis plants containing theCBF3–LUC transgene emitted bioluminescence in response to cold stress (Fig. 1A,B). The homozygous CBF3–LUC plants (herein referred to as wild type) were mutagenized by ethylmethane sulfonate, and the resulting M2 population was screened for mutants with aberrant bioluminescence responses under cold stress using a low light imaging system (CITATION). Several mutants showing abnormal cold regulation of CBF3–LUC expression were recovered. One of these mutant lines, designated as ice1, is virtually blocked in CBF3–LUC expression in the cold (Fig. 1A,B). In response to treatment at 0°C, wild-type plants showed strong luminescence, while the ice1 mutant showed very little induction of luminescence throughout the duration of cold treatment (Fig. 1A,B). After 12 h of cold treatment, ice1 plants showed nearly 10 times less luminescence than that of wild-type plants, and are obviously defective in the cold regulation of CBF3–LUCexpression (Fig. 1B).  [[FIGURE]] The ice1 mutant plant was crossed with CBF3–LUCwild-type plants and the resulting F1 plants were examined forCBF3–LUC expression after 12 h of cold treatment at 0°C. As determined by luminescence imaging, all F1 plants showed reduced cold-induced CBF3–LUC expression similar to that ofice1. An F2 population from the selfed F1 segregated in an ∼3:1 ratio between mutant and wild type (data not shown). These results show that ice1 is a dominant mutation in a single nuclear gene.  RNA blot analysis was carried out to analyze the effect ofice1 mutation on the transcript levels of endogenousCBFs and their target cold stress-responsive genes. Consistent with the imaging results, cold induction of the endogenousCBF3 gene was greatly impaired (almost abolished) inice1 mutant plants (Fig. 1C). Wild-type plants showedCBF3 induction after 1 h of cold stress and the expression peaked at 6 h. In contrast, CBF3 induction was almost abolished in ice1 plants (Fig. 1C). While the CBF1induction level in the ice1 mutant was lower than that of wild type at 1 and 3 h of cold stress, its induction level at 6 and 12 h was similar to that in the wild type. The CBF2 induction level was slightly lower in ice1 at 1 h of cold treatment, whereas at 6 and 12 h, the induction level was higher in the mutant (Fig. 1C). We also examined the cold induction of the downstream target genes ofCBFs. The expression levels of RD29A,COR15A, and COR47A under cold stress were lower inice1 than in the wild type, while the induction ofKIN1 was lower in ice1 only after 48 h of cold stress (Fig. 1C).  Consistent with these RNA blot results, microarray analysis using Affymetrix near full genome genechips showed that out of 306 genes induced threefold or more in the wild type by a 6-h cold treatment, 217 are either not induced in the ice1 mutant or their induction is 50% or less of that in the wild type (Supplementary Tables 1A, 2). Thirty-two of these encode putative transcription factors, suggesting that ICE1 may control many cold-responsive regulons. For 87 of the 306 cold-induced genes, their induction levels in the wild type andice1 differ by less than twofold (Supplementary Table 1B). Interestingly, two genes show higher levels of cold induction in theice1 mutant (Supplementary Table 1C).  At normal growth temperatures, ice1 and wild-type seedlings were similar in size (Fig. 2A). Although adult ice1 plants were smaller, they were not very different from the wild type in flowering time and fertility (Fig. 2B). Ten-day-old seedlings of ice1 and wild type grown on separate halves of the same agar plates were cold acclimated at 4°C for 4 d and then subjected to a freezing tolerance assay. The ice1mutant was less freezing-tolerant than the wild type at all freezing temperatures (Fig. 2C,D). Freezing at −10°C for 2 h killed about 50% of ice1 mutant plants, whereas <20% of wild-type plants were killed at this temperature (Fig. 2D). When newly germinated (at 22° C) ice1 and wild-type seedlings were transferred to 4°C (with 30 ± 2 μmole quanta. m−2 · s−1 light), chilling injury became apparent in the mutant after 4 wk of cold treatment (Fig. 2E). After 6 wk of chilling stress, 100% of wild-type but only 20% ofice1 mutant plants survived (Fig. 2F).  [[FIGURE]] To map the ice1 mutation, a homozygous ice1mutant in the CBF3–LUC Columbia background was crossed to wild-type plants of the Ler ecotype. F1 plants from the cross were selfed to produce F2 seeds. Since the ice1 mutation is dominant, we selected from the segregating F2 population seedlings with the wild-type phenotype (based on plant size and morphology) for mapping. A total of 662 wild-type plants were selected and used for mapping with simple sequence length polymorphism and cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence markers (see Materials and Methods section for details), which initially placed ICE1 on the middle of chromosome 3, then narrowed its location to a 58-kb region on the MLJ15 and MDJ14 BAC clones. Candidate genes in this region were amplified from homozygous ice1 mutant plants and sequenced. The sequences were compared with the published sequence ofArabidopsis ecotype Columbia and a single G-to-A mutation in the hypothetical MLJ15.14 gene was found.  To confirm that MLJ15.14 is the ICE1 gene, the MLJ15.14 gene including 2583 bp upstream of the initiation codon and 615 bp downstream of the stop codon was cloned from ice1 mutant plants. This fragment was inserted into a binary vector and introduced into CBF3–LUC Columbia wild-type plants byAgrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transgenic plants were selected based on their hygromycin resistance, and cold-induced bioluminescence in the T2 lines was compared with that of the wild type. The MLJ15.14 gene from ice1 suppressed cold-induced luminescence from the wild-type plants (Fig.3A,B) and reduced the plant height to that of ice1 mutant (data not shown), thus confirming that MLJ15.14 is ICE1.  [[FIGURE]] The open reading frame of ICE1 was determined by sequencing cDNAs obtained by reverse transcriptase PCR (RT–PCR). ICE1 is predicted to encode a protein of 494 amino acids, with an estimated molecular mass of 53.5 kD. Database searches revealed that ICE1 contains a MYC-like bHLH domain at its C-terminal half (Fig.4A,B). Over the entire length of the protein, ICE1 shows amino acid sequence similarity to an unknown protein of Arabidopsis (At1g12860). The ice1 mutation changes Arg 236, conserved in these two Arabidopsis proteins, to His. The bHLH domain of ICE1 shows high amino acid similarity to that of known MYC-related bHLH transcription factors (Fig. 4B). All MYC binding promoter elements contain the CA nucleotides that are contacted by a conserved glutamic acid in the bHLH zipper domain (CITATION). This glutamic acid residue (Glu 312) is also conserved in the basic DNA binding domain of ICE1 (Fig. 4B). The bHLH family of transcription factors is characterized by an acidic domain near the N terminus and a conserved bHLH DNA binding and dimerization domain near the C terminus (CITATION). All these features are present in ICE1 protein (Fig. 4A).  [[FIGURE]] To analyze the expression pattern of ICE1 in different tissues, T2 lines of transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing an ICE1 promoter-GUS transgene were analyzed.GUS expression was detected in roots, leaves, stem, and floral parts. Semiquantitative RT–PCR analysis also showed that ICE1was expressed constitutively and the expression was stronger in leaves and stems than in other tissues (Fig.5A,B). RNA blot analysis showed that theICE1 transcript was slightly up-regulated by cold, NaCl, and ABA, but not by dehydration (Fig. 5C).  [[FIGURE]] To examine the subcellular localization of the ICE1 protein, ICE1 was fused in-frame to the C-terminal side of the green fluorescent protein (GFP) and expressed under control of the CaMV 35S promoter. Confocal imaging of GFP fluorescence in T2 transgenic plants showed that the GFP–ICE1 fusion protein is present in the nucleus under either warm (Fig. 5D) or cold temperatures (data not shown).  ICE1 has a bHLH domain and its amino acid sequence in the basic region is highly conserved with other bHLH proteins (Fig. 4B), and therefore may recognize promoter elements similar to the DNA binding sites for known bHLH proteins. These proteins recognize DNA with the consensus sequence CANNTG (CITATION). In the promoter region of CBF3, there are five potential MYC-recognition elements within a 1-kb region upstream of the transcription initiation site (CITATION). These possible MYC-recognition sites, designated MYC-1 through MYC-5, fall into four groups because MYC-3 and MYC-5 share the same consensus sequence, CATTTG (Fig.6A). Thus, MYC-3 was used to represent both MYC-3 and MYC-5. To determine whether ICE1 binds to these MYC-recognition sites in the CBF3 promoter, we expressed and purified His–ICE1 fusion protein from E. coli. Four DNA fragments encompassing each possible MYC-recognition site were used for interaction with His–ICE1 in an electrophoresis mobility shift assay (EMSA).  [[FIGURE]] Several complexes were observed when ICE1 was incubated with any of the four DNA fragments (MYC-1 through MYC-4), indicating that ICE1 is able to bind to these sequences (Fig. 6B). The MYC-2 fragment formed one major complex with ICE1, while the other DNA fragments formed several complexes with ICE1. These complexes were abolished by the addition of increasing amounts of cold competitors with the same sequences, but not by P1 or P2, which contains a putative MYB-recognition site and a nonrelated sequence, respectively (Fig. 6B). This specificity of competition strengthens the hypothesis that the interaction between DNA and ICE1 requires the MYC-recognition sequences. When the MYC-2 fragment was used as a probe, the complex was most efficiently competed off by the cold MYC-2 competitor, suggesting that ICE1 has a higher affinity for the MYC-2 site than for the other sites (Fig. 6C). The complex formed by ICE1 and the MYC-2 fragment was less affected by a mutated competitor than by the wild-type competitor (Fig. 6D). Together, these results show that ICE1 interacts specifically with the MYC-recognition sites in the CBF3 promoter. The ice1mutation does not appear to affect ICE1 interaction with theCBF3 promoter, because the Arg 236 to His mutant form of ICE1 was also able to bind to the MYC-2 probe (Fig. 6E).  Transient expression assays were carried out to determine whetherICE1 acts as a transcriptional activator or repressor. An effector plasmid was constructed by fusing ICE1 with the DNA binding domain of the yeast GAL4 transcriptional activator (GAL4–ICE1; Fig. 7A). When the wild-type GAL4–ICE1 and a GAL4-responsive reporter gene, GAL4–LUC, were delivered into Arabidopsisleaves by particle bombardment, the luciferase activity increased 20-fold relative to the control with or without an effector plasmid containing only the GAL4 DNA binding domain (Fig. 7B). The Arg 236 to His mutant form of GAL4–ICE1 also activated theGAL4-responsive transcription (Fig. 7B). These results suggest that ICE1 is a transcriptional activator, and that the ice1mutation does not affect the function of the transcriptional activation domain.  [[FIGURE]] A null allele of ice1 created by T-DNA insertion does not show any phenotypes of the dominant ice1 mutant (data not shown), suggesting that there is functional redundancy in the ICE1gene family. We overexpressed ICE1 in wild-typeArabidopsis plants by using the strong constitutive super promoter. None of the overexpression lines showed any ice1mutant phenotypes. RNA blot analysis showed thatICE1-overexpression did not activate CBF3 expression at warm temperatures. However, ICE1-overexpression enhanced the expression of the endogenous CBF3 gene as well as theCBF3–LUC reporter gene in the cold (Fig. 7C,D). Cold-induction of CBF2, RD29A, and COR15Awas also enhanced in the Super-ICE1 transgenic plants (Fig.7C). When the Super-ICE1 transgenic plants and wild-type control plants in the same agar plates were cold acclimated at 4°C for 5 d and then subjected to freezing treatment at −8°C for 4 h, the ICE1 overexpression transgenic seedlings showed a higher survival rate (75.9% ± 6.5%) than that of control plants (37.2% ± 12.6%; Fig. 7E). The ICE1 overexpression transgenic plants did not exhibit obvious growth or developmental abnormalities (data not shown). These results suggest that ICE1 is a positive regulator of CBF3, and that the dominant nature ofice1 is likely caused by a dominant negative effect of the mutation. 
!~MM~! The CBF3 promoter, a region from 1126 to 100 bp upstream of the initiation codon, was obtained by PCR using the following primer pair: 5′-TCATGGATCCACCATTTGTTAATGCAT GATGG-3′ and 5′-GCTCAAGCTTTCTGTTCTAGTTCAGG 3′. This promoter was placed in front of the firefly luciferase (LUC) coding sequence in a plant transformation vector (CITATION).Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (with theglabrous1 mutation) was transformed with Agrobacterium tumefaciens containing this CBF3–LUC construct by the floral dipping method. Plants homozygous for the CBF3–LUCtransgene were selected from the second generation after transformation. One such plant with a single copy of theCBF3–LUC transgene was chosen for subsequent experiments (hereafter referred to as wild type). This wild-type plant did not show any bioluminescence when grown under normal growth conditions, but emitted bioluminescence when cold stress was imposed. TheCBF3–LUC plant seeds were mutagenized with ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS). Seedlings of the M2 generation were used to screen for mutants defective in cold-regulated CBF3–LUCexpression by luminescence imaging. Seven-day-old seedlings grown on 0.6% agar plates containing 3% sucrose and 1× Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts (JRH Biosciences) were screened for deregulated luciferase expression in response to low temperature treatment at 0°C for 12 h, using a low-light video imaging system (Princeton Instruments). Luminescence intensities of individual seedlings were quantified with the WinView software provided by the camera manufacturer (Princeton Instruments; CITATION).  Chilling sensitivity of ice1 and wild-type plants were tested by exposing the seedlings immediately after radicle emergence. After 2 d of stratification at 4°C, mutant and wild-type seeds were germinated at 22°C on MS nutrient medium with 3% sucrose and 1.2% agar. Chilling stress was imposed by incubating the seedlings at 4°C ± 1°C with 30 ± 2 μmole quanta. m−2 ⋅ s−1 light. Freezing tolerance was assayed as described (CITATION). Briefly, wild-type andice1 seeds were sown on agar (0.9%) plates with Gamborg basal salts and 1.5% sucrose. After 2 d of stratification at 4°C, the plates were kept at 22°C under 50 ± 2 μmole quanta m−2 ⋅ s−1 continuous light. Ten-day-old seedlings were cold acclimated at 4°C ± 1°C and 30 ± 2 μmole quanta. m−2 ⋅ s−1 light for 4 d. These plants on petri dishes were placed on ice in a freezing chamber (Percival Scientific) set to −1°C ± 0.1°C for 16 h. Ice chips were sprinkled on these plants before the chamber was programmed to cool at 1°C h−1. Petri dishes of plants were removed after being frozen at desired temperatures for 2 h unless indicated otherwise, thawed at 4°C for 12 h in the dark, and then transferred to 22°C under 50 ± 2 μmole quanta. m−2 ⋅ s−1 continuous light. Survival of the seedlings was scored visually after 2 d.  For RNA analysis, 10-day-old seedlings of wild-type andice1 plants grown on separate halves of the same MS agar plates were used. Total RNA extracted from control and stressed plants was analyzed by RNA blotting as described by CITATION. TheRD29A gene-specific probe was from the 3′ noncoding region (CITATION). COR15A and COR47 cDNAs (CITATION; CITATION) were kindly provided by M.F. Thomashow (Michigan State University). The CBF2 andCBF3 gene-specific probes were generated by PCR with the following primer pairs: CBF2-forward primer, 5′-TTC GATTTTTATTTCCATTTTTGG-3′; CBF2-reverse primer, 5′-CCAAACGTCCTTGAGTCTTGAT-3′; CBF3-forward primer, 5′-TAAAACTCAGATTATTATTTCCATTT-3′; CBF3-reverse primer, 5′-GAGGAGCCACGTAGAGGGCC-3′. The probe for KIN1 (CITATION) was a 0.4-kb EcoRI fragment of theArabidopsis EST clone YAP368T7. The β-tubulin gene was used as a loading control and was amplified by PCR with the following primer pairs: forward primer (5′-CGTGGATCA CAGCAATACAGAGCC-3′) and reverse primer (5′-CCTCCT GCACTTCCACTTCGTCTTC-3′).  For Affymetrix GeneChip array analysis, 20 μg of total RNA from the wild-type and ice1 seedlings with or without cold treatment (6 h under light) were extracted using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen) and used to make biotin-labeled cRNA targets. The AffymetrixArabidopsis ATH1 genome array GeneChips, which contain >22,500 probe sets representing ∼24,000 genes, were used and hybridization, washing, and staining were carried out as directed in the manufacturer's manual. Microarray data were extracted from scanned GeneChip images and analyzed using Microarray Suite version 5.0.1 (Affymetrix).  Genetic analysis of F1 and F2 progenies of theice1 cross with wild type showed that ice1is a dominant mutation. Hence, to clone ICE1, a homozygousice1 plant was crossed with the Arabidopsis Landsberg erecta (Ler) ecotype and the F2 progeny from self-pollinated F1 were used to select mapping samples with the wild-type phenotype. Genomic DNA extracted from these seedlings was used for PCR-based mapping with simple sequence polymorphism markers or cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence markers. New SSLP mapping markers on F16J4, MTC11, MLJ15, MDJ14, K17E12, and T32N15 BAC clones were developed based on insertion/deletions identified from the CereonArabidopsis polymorphism and Ler sequence collection (http://www.arabidopsis.org). Genomic DNA corresponding to candidate genes was amplified by PCR from ice1 mutant and wild-type plants and sequenced to identify the ice1 mutation.  For ice1 mutant complementation, the MLJ15.14 gene, including 2583 bp upstream of the initiation codon and 615 bp downstream of the stop codon, was PCR-amplified by LA Taq polymerase (Takara) usingice1 mutant genomic DNA as template. The PCR primers used were as follows: forward primer: 5′-AGGGATCCGGACCACCGTCAATAACATCGTTAAGT AG-3′; reverse primer: 5′-CGAATTCTAACCGCCATTAAC TATGTCTCCTCTCTATCTC-3′. The resulting 5035-bp fragment was T–A cloned into the pCR2.1 TOPO vector (Invitrogen) and then subcloned into pCAMBIA1200 between theBamHI and EcoRI sites. This and all other constructs described here were completely sequenced to ensure that they did not contain PCR or cloning errors. The binary construct was then introduced into Agrobacterium strain GV3101 and transformed intoCBF3–LUC Columbia wild-type plants. Hygromycin-resistant transgenic plants were selected and their T2 progenies were tested forCBF3–LUC expression in response to cold stress.  The promoter region (2589 bp upstream from the initiation codon) of the ICE1 gene was PCR-amplified with the following primer pair: forward primer, 5′-AGGGATCCGGACCACCGT CAATAACATCGTTAAGTAG-3′; reverse primer, 5′-CGAAT TCGCCAAAGTTGACACCTTTACCCCAAAG-3′. The resulting fragment was digested with BamHI and EcoRI and inserted into the pCAMBIA1391 binary vector. This ICE1promoter-GUS construct was introduced intoAgrobacterium strain GV3101 and transformed into wild-typeArabidopsis. T2 transgenic lines resistant to hygromycin were analyzed for ICE1-promoter driven GUS expression. For GUS staining, T2 seedlings grown on MS agar plates were incubated with X-Gluc. for 12 h at 37°C and then washed 5 times with 70% (v/v) ethanol at 70°C to remove chlorophyll. ICE1 expression was also examined by quantitative RT–PCR analysis of RNA prepared from wild-type roots, leaves, stems, and flowers. The ICE1 cDNA was amplified by RT–PCR using the following primers: forward primer: 5′-GCGATGGGTCTTGACGGAAACAATGGTG-3′ and reverse primer 5′-TCAGATCATACCAGCATACCCTGC TGTATCG-3′. The tubulin gene was used as an internal control in the RT–PCR analysis. Tubulin cDNA was amplified using the following primers: forward primer: 5′-GTCAAGAG GTTCTCAGCAGTA-3′ and reverse primer 5′-TCACCTTCT TGATCCGCAGTT-3′.  The ICE1 cDNA was amplified from Arabidopsis(ecotype Columbia) RNA by RT–PCR using the following primers: a forward primer: 5′-GCTCTAGAGCGATGGGTCTTGACGGAA ACAATGGTG-3′ and a reverse primer 5′-GGGGTACCTC AGATCATACCAGCATACCCTGCTGTATCG-3′. The PCR product was digested with XbaI and KpnI, and cloned into the pBIB vector under control of the superpromoter, which consists of three copies of the octopine synthase upstream-activating sequence in front of the manopine synthase promoter (CITATION).Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 containing this binary construct was used to transform Arabidopsis plants. Transformants were selected on MS medium containing hygromycin (30 mg/L).  The full-length ICE1 cDNA was obtained from wild-type plants by RT–PCR using the following primers: forward primer, 5′-AGGAATTCGCGATGGGTCTTGACGGAAACAATGGTG3′; reverse primer, 5′-CTGGATCCTCAGATCATACCAG CATACCCTGCTGTATCG-3′. The resulting PCR fragment was digested with EcoRI andBamHI and cloned into the binary vector pEGAD downstream from the CaMV 35S promoter. This GFP–ICE1 construct was introduced into Agrobacterium strain GV3101 and transformed into wild-type Arabidopsis. T2 transgenic lines resistant to Basta (glufosinate) were selected and analyzed for GFP expression. To visualize the nucleus, root tissues were stained with propidium iodide (1 μg/mL). Green fluorescence (GFP expression) and red fluorescence (propidium iodide staining) analyses of transgenic plants were performed with a confocal laser-scanning microscope.  The wild-type and mutant ICE1 cDNAs were amplified by RT–PCR and inserted into NdeI and BamHI sites in the expression vector pET14b (Novagen). Wild-type and mutant His–ICE1 fusion proteins were prepared from E. coli cells (BL21 DE3) according to the instruction manual of His-Bind Buffer Kit (Novagen). The electrophoresis mobility shift assay (EMSA) was carried out as described (CITATION). The following double-stranded oligonucleotides listed in Figure 6A (MYC-1, MYC-2, MYC-3, MYC-4, and MYC-5) were used as probes and competitors in EMSAs. Nucleotide sequences P1 (−949 to −930) and P2 (−909 to −890) were also used as competitors. P1 contains a putative MYB-recognition site. P2 does not contain any typical cis-elements. DNA probes were end-labeled with [γ-32P]dCTP using the Klenow fragment and purified through a Sephadex G-50 column. The labeled probes (ca 0.02 pmole) were incubated for 20 min at room temperature with 2.3 μg of purified His–ICE1 fusion protein in 1× binding buffer (Hao et a.1998) supplemented with 20 pmole poly(dI-dC). The resulting DNA–protein complexes were resolved by electrophoresis on a 6% polyacrylamide gel in 0.5× TBE buffer and visualized by autoradiography. For competition experiments, unlabeled competitors were incubated with the His–ICE1 fusion protein on ice for 30 min prior to the addition of labeled probes.  The wild-type (ICE1) and mutant (ice1) cDNAs were amplified by RT–PCR, digested with SalI and inserted intoSmaI and SalI sites of the plant expression vector 35S-GAL4 DB (CITATION). The plasmid DNA of the resulting effector, GAL4–ICE1, and a GAL4 responsive reporter,GAL4–LUC (CITATION) were delivered intoArabidopsis leaves using particle bombardment (CITATION). 
