!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis genome contains nine sucrose transporter paralogs falling into three clades: SUT1-like, SUT2 and SUT4. The carriers differ in their kinetic properties. Many transport proteins are known to exist as oligomers. The yeast-based split ubiquitin system can be used to analyze the ability of membrane proteins to interact. Promoter-GUS fusions were used to analyze the cellular expression of the three transporter genes in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. All three fusion genes are co-expressed in companion cells. Protein-protein interactions between Arabidopsis sucrose transporters were tested using the split ubiquitin system. Three paralogous sucrose transporters are capable of interacting as either homo- or heteromers. The interactions are specific, since a potassium channel and a glucose transporter did not show interaction with sucrose transporters. Also the biosynthetic and metabolizing enzymes, sucrose phosphate phosphatase and sucrose synthase, which were found to be at least in part bound to the plasma membrane, did not specifically interact with sucrose transporters. The split-ubiquitin system provides a powerful tool to detect potential interactions between plant membrane proteins by heterologous expression in yeast, and can be used to screen for interactions with membrane proteins as baits. Like other membrane proteins, the Arabidopsis sucrose transporters are able to form oligomers. The biochemical approaches are required to confirm the in planta interaction.
!~RES~! Promoter-GUS fusions were used to determine the expression pattern of the three sucrose transporters histochemically. The expression pattern of the high affinity AtSUC2 [CITATION] and the low affinity AtSUT4 [CITATION], and the putative sucrose sensor AtSUT2 [CITATION] overlaps in minor veins of leaves of mature plants (Fig. CITATION). AtSUC2::GUS was expressed in companion cells, consistent with previous immunolocalization studies [CITATION]. This pattern coincides with weak expression of AtSUT2::GUS and strong expression of AtSUT4::GUS in the same cell type (Fig. CITATION). Although differences in expression pattern of the three genes become apparent during the development of the plant, the clear overlap of expression of three transporters in the same cell type may have significant function during specific stages of development. However, it cannot be excluded, that the RNA expression pattern as derived from promoter-reporter studies may not entirely reflect the in-vivo protein localization pattern. The expression of SUT2 in companion cells is in disagreement with immunolocalization data in Arabidopsis [CITATION]. Overlapping expression of sucrose transporters in Arabidopsis. (A) GUS-expression mediated by promoter fragments of AtSUC2, AtSUT2, and AtSUT4 in leaves of Arabidopsis. (B) Cellular localization of GUS expression in minor veins of leaves embedded in LRwhite on 5 μm sections. To study the interaction between the co-expressed Arabidopsis sucrose transporters, two transporters, i.e. SUT2 and SUC2, were fused with the C-terminal half of ubiquitin and the artificial transcription factor PLV (Fig. CITATION) as bait constructs. SUT2, SUC2, and SUT4 were fused with a mutated form of the N-terminal half of ubiquitin, NubG (Fig. CITATION) as prey constructs. A series of NubG-fusion proteins including membrane proteins of different compartments such as a the plasma membrane potassium channel AtKAT1 [CITATION], the plasma membrane monosaccharide transporter AtSTP1 [CITATION], a SEC12 homolog (AtStl2p) as an ER membrane protein [CITATION], and orthologs of the soluble, but also partially membrane-bound sucrose metabolizing enzymes sucrose phosphate phosphatase [CITATION] and sucrose synthase [CITATION], was used to probe the specificity of the interactions and possibly detect interactions between sucrose transporters and enzymes of sucrose metabolism (Fig. CITATION). Constructs for split ubiquitin system. Two sucrose transporters (AtSUT2, AtSUC2) were cloned as CubPLV-fusion proteins, sucrose transporters (AtSUT2, AtSUC2, AtSUT4) and a variety of membrane proteins (AtSTP1, AtKAT1, AtSt12p), as well as cytosolic proteins (AtSUS1, AtSPP1) were cloned as NubG-fusion proteins. The predicted membrane location is indicated for each protein. The bait constructs were stably integrated into the genome of the reporter yeast strain. The transformed bait strains were subsequently transformed with the prey constructs. Both AtSUT2 as well as AtSUC2 were able to interact with themselves and with NubG-fusions of sucrose transporters AtSUT2, AtSUC2, and AtSUT4, but not with soluble NubG alone (Fig. CITATION). The results indicate that the three proteins can form oligomers. Interactions between sucrose transporters were confirmed using growth of the auxotrophic strain in absence of histidine. On control plates with histidine, yeast cells bearing the bait constructs AtSUC2-CubPLV or AtSUT2-CubPLV in combination with sucrose transporter prey constructs grow equally well as cells bearing bait constructs in combination with NubG only (Fig. CITATION). In contrast, on plates without histidine, growth of yeast cells bearing interacting sucrose transporters is significantly stronger compared to cells bearing bait proteins in combination with NubG only (Fig. CITATION). Thus, both markers detecting cleavage of the artificial transcription factor from the CubPLV upon protein-protein interaction can be used to study interactions between two membrane proteins. Interactions of SUT2 and SUC2 as baits with other sucrose transporters detected by the split-ubiquitin system using LacZ as a reporter gene. Interaction of SUT2-CubPLV and SUC2-CubPLV as a bait was tested against various NubG-fusions of membrane proteins and soluble proteins as prey. Positive interaction was visualized by β-galactosidase expression in filter assays. Protein-protein interactions determined by the split ubiquitin system using HIS3 as reporter gene. (A) Growth of yeast cells on control plates with histidine. (B) Growth of yeast cells on plates without histidine demonstrating interaction of AtSUT2 and AtSUC2 as baits with other sucrose transporters as prey, and no growth of cells expressing bait constructs and NubG. Cells were spotted on SD medium with adenine and with or without histidine in 10 μL at cell densities indicated. To confirm the targeting of the NubG-fusion proteins to the plasma membrane and to show their functionality, NubG-AtSUC2 and NubG-AtSUT4 were tested for their ability to complement growth of the yeast strain SUSY7/ura3 on sucrose [CITATION,CITATION]. In both cases, the N-terminal fusion of NubG to the sucrose transporters did not impair their transport function, as demonstrated by the growth of SUSY7/ura3 containing the respective fusion proteins on sucrose as the sole carbon source (Fig. CITATION). Kinetic analysis (data not shown) revealed no significant difference between sucrose affinity of NubG-fusion proteins and published sucrose affinities [CITATION,CITATION]. Functionality of NubG-AtSUC2 and NubG-AtSUT4 fusion proteins. Growth of yeast strain SUSY7/ura3 bearing respective fusion proteins or the empty NubG-vector on medium containing 2% glucose or 2% sucrose as the sole carbon source after four days of growth at 28°C. To exclude non-specific interactions due to random collisions in the plasma membrane, interactions were tested between control baits. No interactions were observed with the glucose transporter AtSTP1 and the potassium channel AtKAT1 [CITATION,CITATION], demonstrating specificity of the interaction between the three different sucrose transporters (Fig. CITATION,CITATION). Furthermore, no interaction was found between AtSUT2 and AtSUC2 and the ER-protein AtStl2p excluding non-specific interactions within the endomembrane system during plasma membrane targeting (Fig. CITATION). The results further support the potential of the Arabidopsis sucrose transporters to form homo- or hetero-oligomers. Since soluble enzymes involved in sucrose metabolism, such as sucrose synthase and sucrose-6-phosphate phosphatase were found to be membrane-associated [CITATION,CITATION], sucrose may also be channeled directly from transport to metabolism by an interaction of sucrose transporters with key enzymes of sucrose metabolism, similarly to glucose in tight associations of hexokinase with glucose transport [CITATION-CITATION]. Therefore sucrose synthase and sucrose phosphate phosphatase were used as NubG fusions as prey and tested against the different sucrose transporter baits (Fig. CITATION). No interaction was found between sucrose transporters AtSUT2 or AtSUC2 and sucrose synthase (AtSUS1) or sucrose-6-phosphate phosphatase (AtSPP1).
!~MM~! A modified split-ubiquitin system [CITATION] was used to investigate protein-protein interactions between AtSUT2, or AtSUC2 as baits, and other Arabidopsis proteins as prey in the yeast strain L40 (MATa ade3 trp1 leu2 his3 LYS2::lexA-HIS3 URA3::lexA-lacZ). Interactions between membrane proteins was monitored by interaction of two membrane bound fusion proteins leading to release of an artificial transcription factor consisting of Protein A, LexA, and VP16 (PLV) and inducing transcription of reporter genes (LacZ, HIS3). The bait cDNAs were cloned in frame with the C-terminal (Cub) subdomain of ubiquitin followed by PLV. Prey cDNAs were fused to the N-terminal (NubG) subdomain of ubiquitin. Fusion vectors have been described [CITATION] and can be obtained from Igor Stagliar, Institute of Veterinary Biochemistry, University of Zürich. Interaction between "bait" and "prey" fusion proteins leads to cleavage of PLV by ubiquitin-specific proteases, and subsequent activation of reporter genes. The integrative bait vector pY-CubPLV contains the wheat germ agglutinin-binding protein WBP1-promoter, allowing constitutive, but low expression of bait fusion protein. AtSUT2 (At2g02860) and AtSUC2 (At1g22710) were cloned as fusion proteins with Cub using restriction sites NdeI and XhoI (Fig. CITATION). After linearization with ClaI, bait-constructs were integrated into LEU2 of strain L40 using lithium-acetate based transformation [CITATION]. AtSUT2, AtSUC2, AtSUT4 (At1g09960), AtSTP1 (At1g11260), AtSPP1 (sucrose-phosphate phosphatase; At2g35840), and AtSUS1 (sucrose synthase; At3g43190), and the ER-protein AtSt12p (At5g50550) were amplified by RT-PCR, sequenced and cloned as NubG-fusion proteins under control of the ADH1-promoter using the restriction sites SalI and PstI, or NcoI, PstI for NubG-fusion with AtKAT1 (At5g46240) (Fig. CITATION). Functionality of the sucrose transporter-NubG-fusions was tested using yeast strain SUSY7/ura3 [CITATION,CITATION] transformed with plasmids bearing respective fusion constructs. To test for growth on sucrose, three colonies from each transformation were resuspended in 5 mL water and 50 μL aliquots were plated both on yeast minimal medium supplemented with tryptophan and either glucose (2%), or sucrose (2%, pH 4). Plates were incubated for 3 (glucose) and 6 days (sucrose) at 28°C. Sucrose was obtained from Carl Roth, Karlsruhe, Germany) β-galactosidase activity was determined by filter assays [CITATION]. Cells were streaked on reinforced nitrocellulose membranes, placed on SD agar plates containing adenine and histidine and grown for two days. Filters were removed from the agar, frozen in liquid nitrogen, placed on filter paper saturated with Z-buffer (60 mM Na2PO4, 40 mM NaH2PO4, 10 mM KCl, 1 mM MgSO4 pH 7.0) containing 35 mM β-mercaptoethanol and 1.5 mg mL-1 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-3-D-galactoside and incubated at 37°C for two hours. A 2.1 kb fragment of the AtSUC2 promoter was cloned into pGPTV-hpt [CITATION] using SalI and SmaI. AtSUT2::GUS [CITATION], AtSUT4::GUS [CITATION], and AtSUC2::GUS expression was analyzed in mature plants grown in soil and seedlings grown on 6% sucrose in the dark as described [CITATION] in presence of 3 mM K-ferricyanide an 0.5 mM K-ferrocyanide at pH 7. Leaves of 15-day old plants were fixed in 4% glutaraldehyde, dehydrated in ethanol and embedded in LRWhite and 5 μm sections were prepared [CITATION]. For each gene, several plants and leaves of different age were analyzed, representative photographs are shown.
