!~ABS~! The related‐to‐ubiquitin (RUB) protein is post‐translationally conjugated to the cullin subunit of the SCF (SKP1, Cullin, F‐box) class of ubiquitin protein ligases. Although the precise biochemical function of RUB modification is unclear, studies indicate that the modification is important for SCF function. In Arabidopsis, RUB modification of CUL1 is required for normal function of SCFTIR1, an E3 required for response to the plant hormone auxin. In this report we show that an Arabidopsis protein called RCE1 functions as a RUB‐conjugating enzyme in vivo. A mutation in the RCE1 gene results in a phenotype like that of the axr1 mutant. Most strikingly, plants deficient in both RCE1 and AXR1 have an embryonic phenotype similar to mp and bdl mutants, previously shown to be deficient in auxin signaling. Based on these results, we suggest that the RUB‐conjugation pathway is required for auxin‐dependent pattern formation in the developing embryo. In addition, we show that RCE1 interacts directly with the RING protein RBX1 and is present in a stable complex with SCF. We propose that RBX1 functions as an E3 for RUB modification of CUL1.
!~RES~! In Arabidopsis, the heterodimeric RUB‐activating enzyme is composed of the AXR1 and ECR1 proteins (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). Previous studies have shown that AXR1 and ECR1 are expressed throughout the life cycle of the plant with particularly high expression levels in dividing and elongating cells (CITATION). To investigate the pattern of RCE1 expression, we first examined expression in various plant tissues by RNA blotting. As indicated in FIG-REF, RCE1 RNA accumulates to substantial levels in all plant organs examined. To further characterize RCE1 expression, we constructed an in‐frame fusion between RCE1 and the β‐glucuronidase (GUS) gene. The construct, including a 1.5 kb DNA fragment from the promoter region of RCE1, was introduced into Arabidopsis plants, and 16 lines were examined for expression of GUS. All of the lines had a similar pattern of GUS staining. In young seedlings, GUS staining was strongest in the elongation zone of the root and at the shoot–hypocotyl junction (FIG-REF). Significant staining was also observed in root hairs. In older seedlings, intense staining was observed at the shoot apex, the root tip and the site of lateral root initiation (FIG-REF). In leaves, particularly strong staining was observed in the veins and trichomes (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). The results of in situ hybridization studies also indicated strong expression in the inflorescence and floral meristems (data not shown). These results indicate that RCE1 is broadly expressed in a manner similar to that of AXR1 and ECR1. [[FIGURE]] Mutations in the AXR1 subunit of the RUB‐activating enzyme result in diverse defects in morphology (CITATION). Similar defects are observed in plants expressing a dominant‐negative form of the ECR1 subunit (CITATION). To investigate the role of RCE1 in plant growth and development, we searched the available collections of insertion lines for mutations in RCE1. One line from the IMA collection contains a Ds insert 371 nucleotides upstream of the ATG for RCE1. This mutation, named rce1‐1, is recessive and confers a characteristic phenotype (described below). RNA blot analysis indicates that RCE1 RNA levels are significantly reduced in plants homozygous for the rce1‐1 allele (FIG-REF). However, some transcript is still present, indicating that rce1‐1 is not a null mutation. To confirm that the rce1‐1 mutation is responsible for the phenotype described below, we constructed a 35S::Myc‐RCE1 fusion gene and introduced it into rce1‐1 plants. The transgene restored normal morphology to mutant plants indicating that the observed defects are caused by a reduction in RCE1 levels (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Based on genetic segregation data, the rce1 mutation does not significantly disrupt gametophyte or embryo development. However, rce1 plants exhibit a variety of growth defects throughout development. When grown on the surface of vertically orientated agar medium, the roots of mutant seedlings appeared to wander over the surface of the agar, suggesting a defect in gravitropism. To test this possibility, wild‐type and mutant roots were grown in a vertical orientation for 6 days and turned 90° to a horizontal orientation. After 8 h, the angle from the vertical axis was measured. The results in FIG-REF show that rce1‐1 seedlings have a reduced response to the change in the gravity vector. The axr1‐12 mutant has a similar defect. Rosette and inflorescence morphology are also altered in the rce1 mutant (Table I; FIG-REF and FIG-REF). In general, organ length is reduced throughout development. The rosette leaves of rce1 plants are smaller than those of Ler leaves, with shorter petioles and rounder, crinkled leaf blades. The inflorescence is shorter and more highly branched than Ler, a phenotype that is quite similar to axr1 plants. Finally, the length of the floral organs is reduced (data not shown), resulting in the production of a shorter silique (Table I). [[TABLE]] In a previous study, we showed that RCE1 promotes RUB modification of CUL1 in vitro (CITATION). To show that this is also the case in vivo, we examined the status of CUL1 in wild‐type and rce1‐1 plants by immunoblotting. FIG-REF shows that the level of RUB–CUL1 in the mutant is significantly reduced compared with Ler plants. To further investigate the effects of loss of RCE1 on the pathway, we crossed rce1‐1 into a line that carries the 35S‐RBX1 transgene. Overexpression of RBX1 results in a dramatic increase in RUB–CUL1 levels (CITATION). The results in FIG-REF show that the loss of RCE1 suppresses the effect of increased RBX1 levels on RUB1–CUL1, confirming that RCE1 acts upstream of RBX1 in the RUB conjugation pathway. [[FIGURE]] A number of studies have shown that SCF function is sensitive to the level of RUB–CUL1 modification (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In Arabidopsis, the best‐characterized SCF complex is SCFTIR1, which is required for auxin response (CITATION). To determine whether the rce1‐1 plants are deficient in auxin response, we first examined the effects of auxin on root growth. In our standard root growth assay, we found that rce1‐1 is significantly resistant to the synthetic auxin 2,4‐D compared with the parental Ler line (FIG-REF). The axr1‐12 mutant was included in this experiment for comparison. To confirm that the auxin response defect is related to a reduction in RCE1 levels, we also tested rce1‐1, 35S::Myc‐RCE1 plants for auxin response. FIG-REF shows that the transgene restores normal auxin response to rce1‐1 plants. Another well‐characterized effect of auxin is the induction of lateral root formation (CITATION). To determine the effect of rce1‐1 on this process, we transferred 6‐day‐old seedlings to medium with 85 nM 2,4‐D and counted lateral roots after 3 days. As shown in FIG-REF, rce1‐1 seedlings produced fewer lateral roots in response to auxin than the wild type. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether these growth defects were accompanied by changes in auxin‐regulated gene expression, we examined expression of the auxin‐response gene IAA2 in wild‐type and rce1‐1 seedlings. FIG-REF shows that induction of this gene is reduced in rce1‐1 plants. Similarly, expression of the auxin‐responsive GUS reporter BA3‐GUS is nearly absent in the rce1‐1 background (FIG-REF). All of these results clearly demonstrate that RCE1 is required for auxin response. So far, the only known SCF substrates in Arabidopsis are the Aux/IAA proteins (CITATION). To determine whether the rce1‐1 mutation affects degradation of these proteins, we measured the half‐life of the AXR2/IAA7 protein in a pulse–chase experiment. The results of a representative experiment are shown in FIG-REF. Based on three experiments, the half‐life of AXR2/IAA7 is 7.99 ± 1.96 min and 12.26 ± 1.97 min for Col and rce1‐1, respectively (FIG-REF). These results indicate that degradation of AXR2/IAA7 is impaired in the rce1‐1 mutant. In Arabidopsis, SCFCOI1 is required for response to the plant hormone jasmonic acid (JA) (CITATION; CITATION). Several recent studies have shown that the axr1 mutants are moderately resistant to JA, suggesting that RUB modification of CUL1 is also required for optimal SCFCOI1 function (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We examined the response of the rce1‐1 mutant and find that it also displays reduced JA response, confirming that RUB modification of CUL1 is required for normal SCFCOI1 function (FIG-REF). The phenotypes of the axr1 and rce1 mutants indicate that the RUB conjugation pathway has an important role in plant growth and development. However, rce1 is not a null mutation, and a related protein called RCE2 may also provide some RUB E2 activity (S.Dharmasiri and M.Estelle, unpublished data). Similarly, a gene closely related to AXR1 is present in the Arabidopsis genome, suggesting that the axr1‐12 mutant may retain some RUB E1 activity (N.Dharmasiri and M.Estelle, unpublished data). Indeed the axr1‐12 mutation reduces but does not eliminate RUB modification of CUL1 (FIG-REF). To determine the effects of a more severely impaired RUB conjugation pathway, we crossed the axr1‐12 mutant to rce1‐1 plants and examined the phenotype of the F2 generation. The results are shown in FIG-REF. Strikingly, the RCE1 gene is dosage sensitive in an axr1 background. Homozygous axr1‐12 seedlings with a single RCE1 gene had a seedling lethal phenotype. After germination, these seedlings did not produce any leaves and soon died. Homozygous axr1‐12 rce1‐1 seedlings had an even more severe phenotype. Double mutant seedlings typically had two cotyledons but lacked all basal structures including the hypocotyl and root. This phenotype is very similar to that of the monopteros (mp), bodenlos (bdl) and auxin resistant 6 (axr6) seedlings (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Recent studies implicate MP, BDL and AXR6 in auxin regulation of pattern formation during embryogenesis (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The effects of each genotype on CUL1 modification are shown in FIG-REF. Surprisingly, significant amounts of modified CUL1 are present in each of the lines, including the double mutant. However, the level of unmodified CUL1 increases in the mutant backgrounds so that the relative level of RUB–CUL1 is decreased in each case (FIG-REF). Thus, a defect in RUB conjugation results in an increase in stability of the CUL1 protein. Auxin is known to play an important role in vascular development (CITATION). To determine whether the axr1‐12 rce1‐1 double mutants exhibit defects in vascular structure, we examined the cotyledons of these seedlings. Both axr1‐12 and rce1‐1 cotyledons showed only slightly reduced vascular development (FIG-REF). In contrast, vascular development was severely deficient in axr1‐12 rce1‐1 plants. Typically, one short vascular strand was visible in each cotyledon of these seedlings. Again, this phenotype is similar to that observed in mp, bdl and axr6 seedlings (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Recent studies have shown that overexpression of RBX1 dramatically increases the level of RUB–CUL1 (CITATION; CITATION). Based on these results, we have suggested that RBX1 functions as an E3 for RUB modification of CUL1 (CITATION). If this is the case, RBX1 should directly bind RCE1. To test this possibility, we added 32P‐labeled RBX to glutathione beads carrying GST–RCE1. The results in FIG-REF show that labeled RBX1 is retained on the beads, indicating a specific interaction between RBX1 and RCE1. To determine whether RCE1 interacts with SCF complexes, we used the 35S::Myc‐RCE1 line. As described above, this transgene restored a wild‐type phenotype to rce1‐1 plants, indicating that the Myc‐RCE1 protein is functional. Initially, we used 35S::Myc‐RCE1 plants to determine whether GST–RBX1 interacts with Myc‐RCE1. The results in FIG-REF show that GST–RBX1 interacts with Myc‐RCE1 in plant extracts, consistent with our results using purified proteins. To show that CUL is also present in a complex with RCE1, we immunoprecipitated CUL1 from extracts prepared from 35S::Myc‐RCE1 seedlings. Immunoblotting with anti‐Myc antibody revealed the presence of Myc‐RCE1 in the immunoprecipitate (FIG-REF). Taken together these results indicate that RCE1 interacts with a complex that contains at least the CUL1 and RBX1 proteins. [[FIGURE]] To confirm and extend these results, we performed GST pull‐down experiments with GST–RCE1 to demonstrate an interaction with a complex containing an F‐box protein. Extracts were prepared from Arabidopsis lines expressing the TIR1‐Myc transgene. FIG-REF shows that GST–RCE1 pulled down the TIR1‐Myc protein from plant extracts. This experiment was also performed with another F‐box protein that is closely related to TIR1 called leucine rich repeat F‐box 1 (LRF1). As shown in FIG-REF, GST–RCE1 also pulled down LRF1‐Myc from plant extracts. These results indicate that RCE1 interacts with complete SCF complexes. Since RCE1 is associated with the SCF, we wondered whether AXR1 might also be in this complex. First we asked whether AXR1 interacts with Myc‐RCE1 by immunoprecipitating AXR1 from 35S::Myc‐RCE1 seedlings. FIG-REF shows that Myc‐RCE1 co‐immunoprecipitates with AXR1, indicating that RCE1 forms a stable complex with AXR1. We next attempted to demonstrate an interaction between AXR1–ECR1 and the SCF by reciprocal co‐immunoprecipitation of AXR1 and CUL1, and GST pull‐down experiments. However, we were unable to detect an interaction using either of these approaches.
!~MM~! The rce1‐1 seeds were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Center (NASC). All other mutants and transgenic lines were in Colombia ecotype. Seeds were surface sterilized and grown on Arabidopsis thaliana medium + 1% sucrose (ATS) plates under 16 h light/8 h dark conditions at 22°C. For root growth assays, 5‐ to 6‐day‐old seedlings were transferred onto ATS plates with or without 2,4‐D or methyl jasmonate (Bedoukian Research, CT). Root lengths and number of lateral roots were measured after 3–5 days depending on the experiment. All protein extracts were generated using 6‐ to 8‐day‐old seedlings grown in liquid ATS medium in flasks under constant shaking. To prepare the RCE1‐GUS reporter gene construct, a 1.5 kb segment from the promoter region immediately upstream of the translation initiation site of the RCE1 gene was ligated to the 0.55 kb RCE1 cDNA carrying the entire open reading frame. This construct was inserted directly into the pBI101.1 plant transformation vector (CITATION), in frame with the GUS protein at the C‐terminus of the fusion. The expression pattern was studied in 16 independent transgenic lines. To construct Myc‐tagged RCE1, a Myc cassette was removed from the pGEM vector and ligated to the 5′ end of the RCE1 cDNA lacking the first ATG. This construct was inserted into pROKII binary vector carrying the 35S promoter. Both RCE1‐GUS reporter and Myc‐RCE1 constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens line GV3101. Plant transformations, and GUS assays were performed as described previously (CITATION). To confirm function of the Myc‐RCE1 fusion protein, the 35S::Myc‐RCE1 transgene was introduced into RCE1 (Col‐0) by transformation and crossed into rce1‐1 (Ler) plants. The GST‐RCE1 construct was prepared by inserting the 0.55 kb RCE1 cDNA into pGEX4T‐3 vector. GST–RCE1 was purified using glutathione beads according to standard protocols. Other proteins used in this study were GST–RBX1 (CITATION), GST–IAA7 (CITATION) and TIR1‐myc (CITATION). For pull‐down and immunoprecipitation assays, proteins were extracted from 6‐day‐old seedlings into buffer containing 50 mM Tris (pH 7.5), 150 mM NaCl, 0.25% Tween‐20, 1 mM PMSF and 5 mg/ml protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche). All pull‐downs and immunoprecipitations were performed using 1 mg total proteins, according to standard protocols. Monoclonal α‐Myc was from BabCo (Richmand, CA). The AXR1 and CUL1 antibodies have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Protein blot analyses were performed according to standard protocols and detected with ECL (Amersham). Pulse–chase analysis was performed using 6‐day‐old seedlings as described previously (CITATION). GST–RBX was labeled with 32P using protein kinase A and treated with thrombin to release labeled RBX. Supernatant containing labeled RBX was incubated with benzamidine beads (to remove thrombin) and glutathione beads (to remove any remaining GST–RBX), then 20 μl of labeled RBX was incubated with 3 μg of GST–RCE1 for 12 h in 200 μl of binding buffer [50 mM Tris–Cl pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5% NP‐40, 0.1 mM dithiothreitol (DTT) and protease inhibitor cocktail]. Beads were washed three times with 1 ml of the binding buffer before analysis by SDS–PAGE. To study the expression of RCE1, total RNA was extracted from seedlings growing in liquid culture, or from adult tissues. For the expression of IAA2 gene, 6‐day‐old rce1‐1 and wild‐type (Landsberg) seedlings were treated with or without 20 μM 2,4‐D for 60 min. Total RNA was extracted using Tri‐reagent (Sigma), and 10 μg RNA was loaded on each lane. The entire coding region of RCE1 cDNA or IAA2 cDNA was used as the probe. Seedlings grown on ATS medium for 7 days were fixed in ethanol:acetic acid:water (6:3:1), and cleared in Hoyers solution (CITATION). The vascular patterns were photographed using dark field optics.
