!~ABS~! For the effective recycling of nutrients, vascular plants transport pooled inorganic ions and metabolites through the sieve tube. A novel sulfate transporter gene, Sultr1;3, was identified as an essential member contributing to this process for redistribution of sulfur source in Arabidopsis.Sultr1;3 belonged to the family of high-affinity sulfate transporters, and was able to complement the yeast sulfate transporter mutant. The fusion protein of Sultr1;3 and green fluorescent protein was expressed by theSultr1;3 promoter in transgenic plants, which revealed phloem-specific expression ofSultr1;3 in Arabidopsis. Sultr1;3-green fluorescent protein was found in the sieve element-companion cell complexes of the phloem in cotyledons and roots. Limitation of external sulfate caused accumulation of Sultr1;3mRNA both in leaves and roots. Movement of 35S-labeled sulfate from cotyledons to the sink organs was restricted in the T-DNA insertion mutant of Sultr1;3. These results provide evidence that Sultr1;3 transporter plays an important role in loading of sulfate to the sieve tube, initiating the source-to-sink translocation of sulfur nutrient in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome (CITATION) contains 14 members of sulfate transporter genes that are assumed to function independently for the uptake and distribution of sulfate in various cell types. We have recently characterized the function of two distinct high-affinity sulfate transporters, Sultr1;1 and Sultr1;2, that facilitate the initial uptake of sulfate at the root epidermis and cortex in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION). In the present study, a putative open reading frame, At1g22150, that potentially encodes the third isoform of the high-affinity sulfate transporter in Arabidopsis was identified on the BAC clone F2E2 (accession no.AC069252) and designated Sultr1;3. The Sultr1;3 cDNA (accession no. AB049624) was isolated by reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR from the root RNA of sulfur-starved Arabidopsis plants. The open reading frame ofSultr1;3 encoded a polypeptide of 656 amino acids that shows 70.0% and 83.8% identities to Sultr1;1 and Sultr1;2, respectively (Fig. 1A). Sultr1;3 was able to complement the lesion of sulfate uptake capacity of the yeast mutant, CP154-7A that lacks two sulfate transporter genes,SUL1 and SUL2 (Fig. 1B). The growth of yeast mutant cells expressing the Sultr1;3 cDNA on low-sulfur medium was comparable with those containing theSultr1;1 or Sultr1;2 cDNAs, suggesting that Sultr1;3 encodes a functional sulfate transporter (Fig.1B). The phylogenic relationships of plant sulfate transporters indicated that Sultr1;3 falls into the group of high-affinity sulfate transporters in the vascular plants (CITATION,CITATION; CITATION;CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; Fig.2). As a consequence, Sultr1;1, Sultr1;2 and Sultr1;3 were the three members of high-affinity sulfate transporters encoded by the Arabidopsis genome.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The effect of sulfur limitation on the mRNA accumulation ofSultr1;3 was investigated by RT-PCR. Arabidopsis plants were grown continuously for 2 weeks on GM (Germination Medium) (CITATION) containing 50, 150, or 1,500 μm sulfate, respectively.Sultr1;3 mRNA was expressed both in leaves and roots and was abundantly expressed under sulfur-deficient conditions particularly in leaves (Fig. 3). The increased accumulation of Sultr1;3 mRNA by sulfur limitation was comparable with those observed inSultr1;1 and Sultr1;2expression. It is suggested that these three high-affinity sulfate transporters are strictly regulated by the changes of the sulfur status. The inducible expression of mRNA by sulfur limitation is one of the general features of the high-affinity sulfate transporter genes in plants.  [[FIGURE]] The cell type-specific expression ofSultr1;3 was studied by introducing a fusion gene construct of Sultr1;3 and green fluorescent protein (GFP; CITATION) in Arabidopsis. A DNA fragment of Sultr1;3 gene that starts from the 5′-region 2,541 bp upstream of the translation initiation site and terminates before the stop codon of Sultr1;3 transporter (+2,981) was amplified from the Arabidopsis genomic DNA by PCR and fused to the coding sequence of GFP. This fusion gene construct enables the expression of the Sultr1;3-GFP fusion protein under the control of theSultr1;3 promoter. The Sultr1;3-GFP fusion gene construct was stably integrated into the Arabidopsis genome byAgrobacterium-mediated transformation (CITATION). The expression of Sultr1;3-GFP fusion protein was analyzed in 16 independent transgenic lines grown for 10 d on GM medium (CITATION). In transgenic Arabidopsis, fluorescence of Sultr1;3-GFP was detected in the phloem of cotyledons (Fig. 4, A–D), hypocotyls (Fig. 4E), and roots (Fig. 4, F–I). Expression of Sultr1;3-GFP in the cotyledon was confined within the sieve element-companion cell complexes (Fig. 4, C and D). Sultr1;3-GFP was mainly found in the source organs, and no green fluorescence was detected in the sink organs such as young rosette leaves. In roots, the level of green fluorescence in the phloem was most remarkable in the mature part of the primary roots and at the branching point of the lateral roots (Fig. 4F). More precisely, the fluorescence was detected in the companion cells in roots (Fig. 4, H and I). The patterns of the cell type-specific expression of Sultr1;3 was completely different from those of Sultr1;1 andSultr1;2 (CITATION;CITATION; CITATION). These results suggest that Sultr1;3 may have specific function in the transport of sulfate through the sieve element in Arabidopsis.  [[FIGURE]] Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion mutant ofSultr1;3 was isolated from the T-DNA tagged population by reverse genetic strategy (CITATION). From 60,480 T-DNA transformed lines generated at the University of Wisconsin, we have identified a mutant line containing a single insertion in the coding region ofSultr1;3. T-DNA was integrated in the first exon of Sultr1;3 between the position +6 to +38 of the translation initiation site, generating a 31 bp deletion (Fig.5A). The insertion site of T-DNA was determined by sequencing DNA fragments amplified with specific primers for Sultr1;3 and the border regions of T-DNA. Progenies containing a single homozygous insertion of T-DNA was selected through Southern hybridization, and propagated for further experiments. Expression of Sultr1;3 mRNA was entirely eliminated in the homozygous mutant (Fig. 5B).  [[FIGURE]] The movement of 35S-labeled sulfate from the source to sink organs was determined in thesultr1;3 and the background Wassilewskija (Ws) wild-type plants. To determine the rate of phloem-mediated translocation of sulfate to the sink organs, plants were grown for 10 d on GM medium, and the cotyledons were fed with35SO4 2−. In these young seedlings, sulfate accumulated in the cotyledons can be reused in the expanding immature organs. After 1 h of labeling, plants were rinsed and further incubated for 1 h in non-labeled nutrient solution. Plants were excised into three parts—cotyledon, shoot without cotyledon, and roots—and the accumulation of radioactivities in each organ was counted. In the wild-type plants, 12% to 15% of labeled sulfate were transported out of the cotyledons (Table I). It is suggested that the labeled sulfate rapidly moved out from the cotyledons and accumulated in the shoot apical region. However, in thesultr1;3 mutant, most of the radioactive sulfate was still present in the cotyledons. Less than 5% of the labeled sulfate was transported from the cotyledon to distant sink organs in the mutant (Table I). These results strongly indicates that disruption of Sultr1;3 sulfate transporter can attenuate the source-to-sink transport of sulfate. It is suggested that Sultr1;3 high-affinity sulfate transporter participates in the loading of sulfate to the sieve tube particularly in the source organs, controlling the flux of sulfur on the stream of phloem sap.  Movement of 35S-labeled sulfate in sultr1;3 and wild-type plants
!~MM~! Arabidopsis plants were grown on GM medium (CITATION) at 22°C under 16 h/8 h light and dark cycles. Sulfate-deficient GM medium was prepared by replacing sulfate salts contained in CITATION salts with equivalent chloride salts as described previously (CITATION). Agar was rinsed in deionized water to remove the contamination of sulfate. The sultr1;3 mutant in the Ws background was screened from 60,480 random T-DNA insertion population generated at the University of Wisconsin (http://www.biotech.wisc.edu/Arabidopsis/default.htm). PCR screening (CITATION) was carried out following the user guidelines. Oligonucleotide primers, 1;3-F (5′-CGGCAAGCAAATACACCGTATGTCCACAA-3′) and 1;3-R-W (5′-TTACACTTGACCTCTACGTCACACGATTG-3′) were designed according to the nucleotide sequence of BAC clone, F2E2 (accession no. AC069252) to screen T-DNA insertions in the coding sequence ofSultr1;3. Single insertion of T-DNA was confirmed by Southern hybridization analysis. The integration site of the T-DNA was determined by sequencing PCR fragments amplified with theSultr1;3 and T-DNA-specific primers. Molecular biological experiments were carried out according to the standard protocols (CITATION). TheSultr1;3 cDNA was isolated by RT-PCR. Oligonucleotide primers, Sultr1;3-FE (5′-CAGTGAATTCATGTCGGCTAGAGCTC-3′) and Sultr1;3-RE (5′-TAGTGAATTCTCAGACCTCGTCGGAC-3′) were designed to amplify the coding sequence of Sultr1;3 according to the nucleotide sequence of BAC clone, F2E2. Total RNA was extracted from the roots of 2-week-old Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia plants grown vertically on sulfur-deficient media containing 100 μm of sulfate using RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). Reverse transcription was carried out using Superscript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) as described previously (CITATION). PCR was carried out on the first-strand cDNA using Pfu Turbo DNA polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). The amplified EcoRI-ended fragment was cloned into the EcoRI site of pBluescriptII SK- (Stratagene) and fully sequenced on both strands. The EcoRI-ended fragment ofSultr1;3 cDNA described above was cloned into the EcoRI site of the yeast expression vector, pYE22m (CITATION). The resulting plasmid was transferred into the Brewer's yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) mutant strain CP154-7A (Matα,his3, leu2, ura3,ade2, trp1,sul1::LEU2, andsul2::URA3; CITATION) by the lithium acetate method (CITATION), and the transformants were selected on synthetic dextrose (SD) minimal medium (CITATION) containing 20 g L−1 Glc, 0.25 mm of homo-Cys, and required amino acids. Complementation of the mutant was tested on sulfur-deficient SD medium containing 0.1 mm of sulfate as a sulfur source. Preparation of total RNA and reverse transcription was carried out as described for the isolation ofSultr1;3 cDNA. First-strand cDNA that derives from 10 ng of total RNA was used for the amplification ofSultr1;3. PCR was carried out byExTaq DNA polymerase (Takara, Tokyo) using gene-specific primers, 1;3G-FSac (5′-CATAGCAATGTCGGCTAGAGCTCATC-3′) and 1;3-R (5′-AGATTTTGTCGTGTCCTATCAAGTCCGCA-3′). PCR was carried out for 24 cycles where cDNAs were exponentially amplified. Amplification ofSultr1;1,Sultr1;2, and α-tubulin (CITATION) was carried out as described previously (CITATION). PCR products were separated in agarose gels and stained with SYBR green (Takara). Signals were detected and quantified using FluorImager 595 (Molecular Dynamics, Sunnyvale, CA) with a 515 to 545 nm band-pass filter. The fusion gene construct ofSultr1;3 and GFP (CITATION) for plant transformation was constructed as follows. Oligonucleotide primers, 1;3P-FHd (5′-AAGCTTGAGGTTTAATCTTCGTGCTTG-3′) and 1;3G-RSac (5′-GATGAGCTCTAGCCGACATTGCTATG-3′) were designed according to the nucleotide sequence of BAC clone F2E2 to amplify a fragment that starts from the 5′-promoter region 2,541 bp upstream of the translation initiation site and terminates at theSacI site at the position 11 bp downstream of the translation initiation site. Oligonucleotide primers, 1;3G-FSac (5′-CATAGCAATGTCGGCTAGAGCTCATC-3′) and 1;3c-RXb (5′-TCTAGAGACCTCGTCGGACAGTTTAG-3′) were designed to amplify the rest of the coding sequence of Sultr1;3by PCR. PCR was carried out on genomic DNA prepared from Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia using Pfu Turbo DNA polymerase (Stratagene). BamHI-EcoRI fragment of the 35S-omega-sGFP(S65T) (CITATION) containing the GFP coding sequence and the nopaline synthase terminator was placed into the position of β-glucuronidase and the nopaline synthase terminator in the binary plasmid, pBI101 (BD Biosciences Clontech, Palo Alto, CA). The HindIII-SacI andSacI-XbaI fragments ofSultr1;3 were inserted between theHindIII and XbaI site of this promoter-less GFP binary vector constructed in pBI101. The binary plasmid containing the Sultr1;3 promoter and Sultr1;3 coding region-GFP fusion in-frame was transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciensGV3101 (pMP90; CITATION) by the freeze-thaw method (CITATION). Arabidopsis plants were transformed according to the floral dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on GM medium (CITATION) containing 50 mg L−1 kanamycin sulfate. Kanamycin-resistant T2 progenies of 16 independent lines were analyzed. Tissues were embedded in 5% (w/v) agar and cut into 150-μm cross sections with a microslicer DTK-1000 (Dosaka, Kyoto). Fluorescence of GFP in transgenic plants was observed under a BX61 microscope equipped with a FV500 confocal laser scanning system and a 505- to 525-nm band-pass filter (Olympus, Tokyo). One-microliter drop of 5 mmNa2 35SO4 solution (18.5 kBq; Amersham Biosciences UK, Ltd., Buckinghamshire, UK) containing 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100 was fed to cotyledons of 10-d-old plants grown on GM medium (CITATION). After 1 h of incubation, plants were rinsed three times in water and left 1 h in non-labeled GM nutrient solution. Plants were excised into three parts—cotyledon, shoot without cotyledon, and roots—and digested by adding 20 μL of 100 mm HCl to one mg fresh weight of plant tissue. Tissues were extracted for 1 h in 100 mm HCl, and the radioactivity was determined in a scintillation counter (Aloka, Tokyo). Upon request, all novel materials described in this publication will be made available in a timely manner for noncommercial research purposes, subject to the requisite permission from any third-party owners of all or parts of the material. Obtaining any permissions will be the responsibility of the requestor.
