!~ABS~! The sequencing of the genome of Arabidopsis thaliana revealed that this plant contained numerous isoforms of thioredoxin (Trx), a protein involved in thiol-disulfide exchanges. On the basis of sequence comparison, seven putative chloroplastic Trxs have been identified, four belonging to the m-type, two belonging to the f-type, and one belonging to a new x-type. In the present work, these isoforms were produced and purified as recombinant proteins without their putative transit peptides. Their activities were tested with two known chloroplast thioredoxin targets: NADP-malate dehydrogenase and fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase and also with a chloroplastic 2-Cys peroxiredoxin. The study confirms the strict specificity of fructose-bisphosphatase for Trx f, reveals that some Trxs are unable to activate NADP-malate dehydrogenase, and shows that the new x-type is the most efficient substrate for peroxiredoxin while being inactive toward the two other targets. This suggests that this isoform might be specifically involved in resistance against oxidative stress. Three-dimensional modeling shows that one of the m-type Trxs, Trx m3, which has no activity with any of the three targets, exhibits a negatively charged surface surrounding the active site. A green fluorescent protein approach confirms the plastidial localization of these Trxs. 
!~RES~! Production and Purification of Recombinant Thioredoxins— The seven putative cpTrxs were produced in their predicted mature form (CITATION). They were purified to homogeneity by standard methods; however, the purification of Trxs m1 and m3 required an additional HPLC step because they eluted close to E. coli Trx. A standard test to detect plant Trxs is their capacity to activate NADP-MDH, as this enzyme is considered to exhibit little specificity (CITATION). However, during purification of Trxs m3 and x, this test proved useless, and the proteins had to be detected by their low molecular mass. To ascertain whether these Trxs were able to reduce protein disulfide bonds, their activity was checked with the standard insulin test (CITATION). Trx x displayed an activity very similar to that of m-type Trxs. Trx m3, although less active, was more efficient than DTT (data not shown). Thus, each Trx was produced in a redox-active form.  Activation of NADP-MDH—To estimate the specificity of NADP-MDH for cpTrxs, the S0.5 (concentration of Trx yielding half-maximal activation rate) and the t½ of NADP-MDH activation, measured at the S0.5 Trx concentration, were determined (Table I). The highest efficiency was displayed by Trx f1 followed by Trxs f2, m1, m2, and m4. Confirming our previous observation, Trx m3 had a very poor affinity for NADP-MDH, if any, as the enzyme could not be fully activated even at a 130 μm concentration. Trx x was also a poor activator of NADP-MDH with an S0.5 about 10-fold higher than the S0.5 for other Trxs. The t½ was about 1 min for Trxs f1 and f2 and a few minutes for Trxs m1 and m4. Trx m2 showed a t½ of more than 10 min. Very slow activation rates were observed for Trxs m3 and x (Fig. 2A), thus the t½ could not be determined. This lack of activity was quite unexpected. We have shown previously that the redox potential of the C-terminal disulfide of NADP-MDH was more negative than the redox potential of the disulfide of standard m and f Trxs by ∼30–40 mV, requiring an excess of reduced Trx for reduction (CITATION). In contrast, the N-terminal disulfide is almost isopotential with Trxs. To check whether a difference in redox potentials might be the cause of the inefficiency of Trxs x and m3, we tested the ability of these two Trxs to activate a mutant NADP-MDH where only the N-terminal disulfide remains (C207A/C365A/C377A mutant). This mutated enzyme exhibits some basal activity in the oxidized form but requires reduced Trx to reach full activation (CITATION). The mutant NADP-MDH could be activated to some extent by Trxs m3 and x although at a markedly slower rate than with Trx m1. The activity of Trx m3 was particularly low (Fig. 2B).  [[TABLE]]  [[FIGURE]]  Redox Potential Determinations—The result obtained for the mutant NADP-MDH suggested that Trxs m3 and x might have less negative redox potentials than the other Trxs. The determination of the redox potentials of the different Trxs supported this hypothesis only in the case of Trx x (Table II). In fact, the Em (midpoint redox potential) values of most Trxs were similar, around an average value of –358 mV at pH 7.9. The Em value of Trx x (–336 mV) was significantly less negative.  [[TABLE]]  Activation of FBPase—Chloroplast FBPases are known to be activated very specifically by Trx f. Our results confirmed this specificity: only f-type AtTrxs could significantly activate the enzyme (Fig. 2C). This result is supported by the determination of S0.5 and t½. Trxs m and x were so inefficient that neither S0.5 nor t½ could be estimated. Trxs f1 and f2 had similar low S0.5 (0.62 and 0.68 μm) and t½ (2–3 min) values. This result confirms that f-type Trxs are the specific activators of FBPase, both isoforms being equally efficient.  Reduction of Chloroplastic 2-Cys Peroxiredoxin—A Trx-dependent 2-Cys chloroplastic peroxidase has been identified recently, but its specificity for cpTrxs has not been extensively tested (CITATION, CITATION). This Prx uses reduced Trx as a proton-donating substrate for hydrogen peroxide and alkyl hydroperoxide reduction. The capacity of the various cpTrxs to reduce 2-Cys Prx from A. thaliana was compared by measuring the rates of disappearance of t-BOOH in the presence of Trx. In this test, Trx x proved to be by far the most efficient (Fig. 2D). Most m-type Trxs and f-type Trxs seemed to be reasonably efficient, but Trx m3 showed no activity. The determination of kinetic parameters (Table III) allowed the classification of Trxs into two distinct groups. Trxs m1 and m2 had substantially lower kcat values than those of Trxs f and x. The Km value was the lowest for Trx x. The differences in catalytic efficiencies (kcat/Km) highlighted this selectivity (Table III), the value for Trx x ranging from 4-fold higher (versus Trx f1) to 22-fold higher (versus Trx m2). Based on all three parameters, Trx x was indeed the best substrate for Prx. Trxs m3 and m4 had a very low or no efficiency (data not shown).  [[TABLE]]  Subcellular Localization of Putative cpTrxs—As already stated, our seven Arabidopsis Trxs possess transit peptides and are predicted to be chloroplastic (CITATION). However, given the unusual biochemical properties of some of them, we used modified versions of GFP to confirm the subcellular localization of one member of each type. For this purpose, the sequences encoding the preproteins corresponding to Trxs f1, m2, m3, and x were translationally fused upstream of SmGFP cDNA, and transient expressions of the chimeric sequences were monitored in A. thaliana protoplasts by confocal microscopy. In addition, Trx m2 in its mature form (CITATION) and Trx o1 in its preprotein form (CITATION) were N-terminally fused to GFP as controls for, respectively, absence of targeting and mitochondrial targeting. As shown in Supplemental Fig. S1 for the four transit peptide-containing cpTrxs, GFP fluorescence was observed inside the plastids. Mature Trx m2 failed in this targeting. Referring to the picture obtained for mitochondrial targeting of GFP when fused to Trx o1, none of the cpTrxs was able to address the fused GFP protein to mitochondria. Taking into account the high sequence identity between Trxs m1, m2, and m4 on one hand and Trxs f1 and f2 on the other of hand, the conclusion obtained for one representative of each type of cpTrx should apply to the other members of the group. 
!~MM~! Chemicals and Biochemicals—Oligonucleotides were from MWG Biotech, Taq DNA polymerase was from Qiagen, and restriction enzymes were from Invitrogen. Most of the biochemical supplies were from Sigma except for NADPH, phosphoglucose isomerase, and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase that were from Roche Diagnostics.  Plant Recombinant Enzymes—Pea FBPase and sorghum NADP-MDH cDNAs cloned in pET-3d vectors were overexpressed in E. coli BL21(DE3) strain. The recombinant FBPase and the two previously engineered NADP-MDHs (Δ15-NADP-MDH and C207A/C365A/C377A NADP-MDH) were produced and purified as described previously (CITATION–CITATION). The chloroplastic His-tagged 2-Cys Prx from Arabidopsis was kindly provided by M. Broin (CITATION).  E. coli Strains and Plant Cells—DH5α strain (CITATION) was used to produce recombinant plasmids in high yields, and BL21(DE3) (CITATION) was used for the production of recombinant proteins encoded by pET-3d vectors. Bacteria were grown at 37 °C on Luria broth medium supplemented with 50 μg/ml ampicillin when bacteria carried plasmids conferring drug resistance. Cell suspensions of Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia, strain T87) were cultured as described in Ref. CITATION. Plant cells were used to isolate protoplasts for transient gene expressions of GFP fusion proteins.  Plasmid Construction for Expression of AtTrxs in Bacteria—The cDNAs encoding A. thaliana Trxs without their putative transit peptides were obtained by PCR. The matrices used were cDNAs previously cloned in YcpGal2 yeast vectors (CITATION). Forward primers introducing a NcoI restriction site (underlined) at the start codon (bolded) were 5′-ACCCATGGACACTGCTACAGGAATT-3′ for AtTrx m1, 5′-ACCCATGGAAACTACTACCGATATTCAG-3′ for AtTrx m2, 5′-ACCCATGGCTGAAGTTACACAACGA-3′ for AtTrx m3, 5′-ACCCATGGACACCACTGCCG-3′ for AtTrx m4, 5′-ACCCATGGTTGGTCAGGTGACG-3′ for AtTrx f1, 5′-ACCCATGGTTGGCCAGGTGACG-3′ for AtTrx f2, and 5′-ACCCATGGGCGGAATCAAAGA-3′ for AtTrx x.  Reverse primers adding a BamHI site downstream of the stop codon were the same as in Ref. CITATION. The fragments generated by PCR were cloned into the bacterial expression vector pET-3d (CITATION). The sequence of each NcoI-BamHI fragment was verified by sequencing (Big dye terminator kit, Applied Biosystems).  Production and Purification of Recombinant Thioredoxins—The recombinant Trxs in their putative mature forms were produced using the pET-3d/BL21 expression system. Bacteria were cultivated at 30 °C for production of all Trxs except Trx m3. The production of Trx m3 in a soluble form was improved by cultivating the bacteria at 25 °C after induction with 100 μm isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside. Cells were disrupted using a French press (10,000 p.s.i.). Recombinant proteins were purified essentially as described previously (CITATION). The main steps consisted of heat treatment, ammonium sulfate fractionation, anion exchange chromatography on DEAE-Sephacel (Amersham Biosciences), and gel filtration on Sephadex G-50 (Amersham Biosciences). f-type Trxs and Trx x were recovered in the non-adsorbed fraction from the DEAE-Sephacel column. m-type Trxs were eluted by a linear gradient of NaCl (0–0.3 or 0.4 m) in 100 mm Tris-HCl buffer, pH 7.9. Trx fractions were detected by the NADP-MDH activation test, except for Trx x and Trx m3, which were followed throughout the purification by electrophoresis on 15% SDS-polyacrylamide gels (CITATION). Possible contamination of final preparations of Trxs m1 and m3 by E. coli Trx, which shows a very similar chromatographic behavior, was monitored by mass spectrometry using a matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight spectrometer (Perseptive Voyager STR-DE) equipped with a nitrogen laser (337 nm). Their purification to homogeneity required an additional chromatographic step on a mono-Q HR 5/5 HPLC column (Amersham Biosciences) eluted with a 40-min gradient of 0–400 mm NaCl in 30 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.9, at a flow rate of 1 ml·min–1.  Enzyme Activity Tests—The disulfide reductase activity of purified recombinant Trxs was tested on insulin by turbidimetry measurements (CITATION). The reaction was performed in the presence of 1 mm DTT with 10–25 μm Trx in 100 mm Tris-HCl buffer, pH 7.1. NADP-MDH activation assays were performed by incubating DTT-reduced Trx samples with purified NADP-MDH (CITATION). The rate of activation of NADP-MDH was followed by measuring its activity spectrophotometrically at 340 nm as oxalacetate-dependent NADPH oxidation. FBPase activation was performed by incubating DTT-reduced Trx with 2 μm FBPase. The enzyme activity was measured on aliquots by a coupled assay (CITATION). Prx activity was assayed in the presence of a 20 μm concentration of a 2-Cys Prx from Arabidopsis, 400 μm DTT, 400 μm t-BOOH, and variable amounts of Trx. The unreduced t-BOOH was quantified colorimetrically at 550 nm with the Peroxoquant reagent (Perbio Science) with a microplate reader (MR 700, Dynatech).  Determination of the Redox Potentials of Recombinant Thioredoxins—Oxidation-reduction titrations were carried out using monobromobimane to monitor the reduction state of the thiol/disulfide of Trxs, the useful range of potentials being generated by different ratios of reduced to oxidized DTT. The experimental procedure was described previously (CITATION). All determinations were done in 100 mm Tricine-NaOH buffer, pH 7.9.  Modeling of the Three-dimensional Structures of the Various Trxs— Trxs were modeled using version 4.0 of the MODELER program (CITATION) and the closest structure to the average of the NMR ensemble of Trx m from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii (structure 16 of the Protein Data Bank entry 1DBY; Ref. CITATION) as a template structure, and the sequence alignment shown in Fig. 1. Hydrogens were added using the MOLMOL program (CITATION). Histidine side chains were considered as fully positively charged, and the simple charge electrostatic potentials associated to the water-accessible surfaces of the different Trxs were calculated and displayed using MOLMOL.  [[FIGURE]]  Subcellular Localization of Putative cpTRX-GFP Fusion Proteins— Transient expression of chimeric cpTrxs fused to GFP in Arabidopsis protoplasts was obtained using the pBI/SmGFP vector (CITATION) kindly provided by N. Glab. cDNA segments encoding cpTrx preproteins were obtained by PCR amplification from cDNA clones described previously (CITATION, CITATION) using the following primers: 5′-AAAATCTAGAAGCCATGGCTGCTTTCACTTGTACC-3′/5′-AAAAGGATCCTGGCAAGAACTTGTCGAGGCTAGATG-3′, 5′-AAAATCTAGATTCAATGGCGATTTCTTCTTCTTCCTC-3′/5′-AAAAGGATCCTGAGTTCAAGACTCTTTCAATGGCGG-3′, 5′-AAAATCTAGATCTTATGCGATCATATCTCACTCCTCCG-3′/5′-AAAAGGATCCAGCAACAGATATTGAGTTCAAGAGACCATC-3′, 5′-AAAATCTAGAACAATGCCTCTTTCTCTCCGTCTTTC-3′/5′-AAAAGGATCCTCCGGAAGCAGCAGACCTCG-3′, and 5′-AAAATCTAGAAGTGATGAAGGGAAATTGGTCGATCG-3′/5′-AAAAGGATCCCTTGTAGAGCTGTTCCATGAGATTCTTCAG-3′, respectively, for Trx m2, Trx m3, Trx x, Trx f1, and Trx o1. In addition, the cDNA encoding the mature form of Trx m2, with the N terminus as reported for the native protein (CITATION), was PCR-amplified using the upstream primer 5′-AAAATCTAGAAGCCATGGAAGCTCAGGAAACTACTACCGATATTCAAGTG-3′. These cpTrx cDNAs were sequenced and further cloned upstream of the SmGFP at XbaI-BamHI sites of the pBI/SmGFP vector.  For protoplast transformation, 40 ml of a 4-day-old cell culture of A. thaliana were used following the polyethylene glycol procedure described in Ref. CITATION as modified in Ref. CITATION. Transformed protoplasts were left at 23 °C for 24–36 h under continuous 50 microeinstein·s–1·m–2 light before microscopy observations. Green fluorescence, chlorophyll red autofluorescence, and transmission images were monitored using a confocal laser scanning microscope (LCTCS SP2, Leica) with a 488 nm argon laser excitation. Objective HCX Plan Apo CS, 100× oil, numerical aperture 1.40 was used. The fluorescence signals were detected at 520 ± 20 nm for GFP and 650 ± 20 nm for chlorophyll autofluorescence. 
