!~ABS~! Homologous recombination results in the exchange and rearrangement of DNA, and thus generates genetic variation in living organisms. RecA is known to function in all bacteria as the central enzyme catalyzing strand transfer and has functional homologues in eukaryotes. Most of our knowledge of homologous recombination in eukaryotes is limited to processes in the nucleus. The mitochondrial genomes of higher plants contain repeated sequences that are known to undergo frequent rearrangements and recombination events. However, very little is known about the proteins involved or the biochemical mechanisms of DNA recombination in plant mitochondria. We provide here the first report of an Arabidopsis thaliana homologue of Escherichia coli RecA that is targeted to mitochondria. The mtrecA gene has a putative mitochondrial presequence identified from the A. thaliana genome database. This nuclear gene encodes a predicted product that shows highest sequence homology to chloroplast RecA and RecA proteins from proteobacteria. When fused to the GFP coding sequence, the predicted presequence was able to target the fusion protein to isolated mitochondria but not to chloroplasts. The mitochondrion-specific localization of the mtrecA gene product was confirmed by Western analysis using polyclonal antibodies raised against a synthetic peptide from a unique region of the mature mtRecA. The Arabidopsis mtrecA gene partially complemented a recA deletion in E. coli, enhancing survival after exposure to DNA-damaging agents. These results suggest a possible role for mtrecA in homologous recombination and/or repair in Arabidopsis mitochondria.
!~RES~! A putative recA gene homologue that encodes a 394-residue (43.64 kDa) preprotein with a predicted 27-residue mitochondrial presequence was identified (identified as Atm in Fig. 1) by a BLAST search of the Arabidopsis nuclear genome database (DNA Accession No. AY072877, protein Accession No. AAF04410). The search yielded a single RecA homologue (hereafter referred to as mtrecA for the gene and mtRecA for the protein) that was predicted with high probability to be targeted to mitochondria by the PSORT (probability 0.705), Predotar (0.998), TargetP (0.861) and MITOP (0.9392) prediction programs. While the ChloroP program gave a probability of 0.491 for targeting of this gene product to chloroplasts, this program identified no targeting presequence. The other prediction programs yielded probabilities of 0.047 or less for import of mtRecA into chloroplasts, with no predicted targeting presequences. A total of four recA homologues were found in the Arabidopsis genome database, but the mtrecA gene was the only one with a clear prediction for a mitochondrial targeting sequence. The second homologue has a predicted chloroplast targeting sequence and has already been shown to be imported into chloroplasts (Cao et al. CITATION; identified as Atc in Fig. 1), but the MitoP program gave a prediction of 0.700 for targeting to mitochondria with a putative 46 amino acid targeting presequence. The work presented by Cao et al. (CITATION) does not include experiments designed to determine whether this protein is imported into mitochondria, so it is possible that this protein could be targeted to both organelles (see Discussion). The other two rec A homologues have mixed, low or no organelle targeting predictions and lack clear targeting sequences (identified as At3 and At4 in Fig. 1), so it is not clear whether these proteins might be targeted to an organelle, or whether they remain in the cytoplasm. The At3 sequence, in addition to lacking a predicted targeting sequence, contains a number of additional amino acids at the C-terminal end, suggesting that this protein may be functionally distinct. The At4 sequence is much shorter than the others, and lacks a considerable number of amino acids at the N-terminal end and near the C-terminal end, particularly in regions involved in DNA and nucleotide binding. [[FIGURE]]  Thorough analysis of upstream sequences beyond those shown in Fig. 1 identified no additional in-frame methionine codons that do not have intervening in-frame stop codons (data not shown), suggesting that the sequences shown are likely to be those of the actual protein products. A full-length cDNA clone of the mtrecA gene was obtained and the DNA sequence was confirmed. Northern analysis using the EST clone insert as probe at high stringency confirmed that this gene is transcribed in Arabidopsis plants (data not shown), as expected given the origin of the clone. The mtrecA gene shows a very different organization to the ctrecA gene with respect to the number, size and location of exons and introns (Fig. 2A). Comparisons of the predicted Arabidopsis mtRecA sequence with RecA sequences from several different organisms indicated that it is most closely related to the Arabidopsis RecA targeted to chloroplasts and to members of the alpha-Proteobacteria (Fig. 2B). [[FIGURE]]  The selectively amplified mitochondrial presequence region of Arabidopsis mtrecA (81 bases) encoding the predicted 27-amino acid targeting peptide sequence was cloned into a GFP fusion vector to produce a presequence-GFP fusion protein, PS-GFP. In vitro import studies with purified soybean mitochondria showed specific import of PS-GFP into mitochondria (Fig. 3E), and not into chloroplasts. A control experiment with the same protein and purified chloroplasts confirmed that the fusion is not imported into isolated chloroplasts (Fig. 3C). The red autofluorescence results from the chlorophyll in the chloroplasts and did not co-localize with GFP fluorescence. No fluorescence was detected in mitochondria incubated with GFP lacking a presequence (Fig. 3A), demonstrating that a targeting sequence is necessary for the localization of GFP to mitochondria. Samples that had not been exposed to proteinase K treatment or reisolation on Percoll gradients showed a considerable background fluorescence that did not colocalize with organelles (data not shown), indicating that digestion with proteinase K and reisolation on Percoll gradients was sufficient to remove GFP not localized within mitochondria. DIC images of the same fields were used to correlate localized fluorescence with mitochondria (Fig. 3B, D and F). [[FIGURE]]  The polyclonal antibody prepared against a synthetic 16-amino acid peptide representing a unique region near the N-terminal end of the mature mtRecA protein recognized a single specific polypeptide of the expected size in total protein extracts from purified Arabidopsis mitochondria, and did not cross-react with the purified chloroplast sample (Fig. 4). Preimmune serum did not react with any of the proteins on the membrane (not shown). As a control for the purity of the organelle fractions and the specificity of the antibody, an antibody against chloroplast a/b binding protein was tested and gave a signal only with the chloroplast protein sample and not with mitochondria (Fig. 4). As a positive control for mitochondria, antibody against mitochondrial outer membrane porin was tested and gave a signal only for the mitochondrial sample and not the chloroplast sample (Fig. 4). The antiserum raised against the synthetic fragment of mtRecA showed no cross-reaction with purified E. coli RecA protein, a wild-type E. coli strain expressing native RecA, or the ΔrecA strain of E. coli used for overexpression of mtRecA, but did react strongly with a protein of the expected size in a total protein extract of the E. coli strain overexpressing mtRecA (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  Histidine-tagged mtRecA protein from E. coli was batch purified on a Ni2+-NTA agarose column and analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting. The majority of overexpressed mature mtRecA protein was found in the soluble protein fraction (Fig. 5). Antibodies against the chloroplast RecA protein (kindly provided by A. Jagendorf, Cornell Univ.) were found to cross-react with the over-expressed mtRecA protein (Fig. 5) as expected. The 6×His-tag added ~3.5 kDa to the molecular weight of the protein. [[FIGURE]]   Arabidopsis mtrecA, when expressed in E. coli under the control of an inducible T7 promoter in a high-copy number plasmid, conferred resistance to the DNA-alkylating agent methylmethanesulfonate (MMS), and the DNA-crosslinking agent mitomycin C (Fig. 6A and B, respectively). Comparison of surviving fractions of the Δ recA strain (BLR) with the same strain bearing the mtrecA plasmid showed that induction of mtrecA expression with IPTG provided up to a 188-fold increase in resistance to MMS and an almost 230-fold enhancement of resistance to DNA damage by mitomycin C. Derepression by IPTG was carried out at one-tenth the concentration used for over-expression to avoid the formation of inclusion bodies. Plots of IPTG levels against the survival rates of the treated cultures showed that 0.1 mM IPTG produced survival rates comparable to those of the uninduced control rec A+ strain. The levels of mtRecA expressed in the presence of 0.1 mM IPTG were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and observed to be comparable to the levels in the wild-type strain (not shown). [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! The XL1-Blue (Stratagene), DH5α (Life Technologies) and JM109 (Promega) strains of E. coli were used as hosts for routine cloning and isolation of ssDNA. The BL21 (DE3) strain [E. coli B F-, ompT , hsdS B (rB- mB-), gal dcm , (DE3)] was obtained from Novagen. A BLR(DE3) strain [E. coli B F-, ompT , hsdS B (rB- mB-), gal dcm , Δ(srl- recA)306::Tn10 (tetR) (DE3)} was used for overexpression of mtRecA and complementation analysis. The pCR T7 TOPO TA expression system was purchased from Invitrogen. The pGFPuv expression vector was obtained from Clontech. M13mp18 ssDNA and replicative form DNA were purchased from New England Biolabs. Bacterial cultures were grown in LB medium at 37°C unless indicated otherwise. The putative mtrecA gene was identified by a BLAST search of the Arabidopsis Gene Index in the TIGR (The Institute for Genomic Research, Rockville, Md.) database. Analysis of homologous sequences retrieved by the BLAST search was performed using the AlignX program from the Vector NTI suite (Informax), PHYLIP and CLUSTALW. Potential targeting presequences were predicted using the PSORT (Nakai and Horton CITATION; Nakai CITATION), TargetP (Emanuelsson et al. CITATION), Predotar (http://genoplante-info.infobiogen.fr/predotar/index.html), MitoP (Scharfe et al. CITATION; CITATION) and ChloroP (Emanuelsson et al. CITATION) protein signal prediction programs. The EST clone (Accession No. AV525538) was obtained from the Kazusa DNA Research Institute (Chiba, Japan). The sequence of the full-length cDNA corresponding to mtRecA was confirmed, annotated and submitted to the GenBank database (under Accession No. AY072877). The 81-bp region encoding the predicted N-terminal presequence (27 residues) was amplified by PCR using the following primers (restriction sites are underlined): 5´-AGCTTGCATGCCTGCAGGATGGGTCGACTCTCATGGGCCAGTCCG-3´ (forward; 5´ Pst I site) and 5´-TCGGGGTACCCCAACGCTTCTTCTTCCATTCAGCTG-3´ (reverse; 3´-KpnI site). This fragment was directionally cloned into pGFPuv to produce a sequence encoding a 27-amino acid N-terminal presequence-fused to GFP (pPS-GFP), and the DNA sequence of the construct was confirmed. XL1-Blue host cells were transformed with pPS-GFP and were cultured in LB medium with 50 μg/ml ampicillin for 16 h at 37°C. The cells were centrifuged at 6000× g, and the resulting pellet was resuspended in 30 ml of resuspension buffer (20 mM TRIS-HCl pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM EDTA). Cells were disrupted by sonication in an ice-bath for 20 min (4-s pulses at 20-s intervals) to obtain the crude protein extract. Intact cells and insoluble material were removed by centrifugation at 4°C for 30 min at 15,000× g. The fluorescent supernatant containing the fusion protein was enriched by precipitation with ammonium chloride followed by organic extraction (Yakhnin et al. CITATION). Mitochondria were isolated from 100 g of young soybean (Glycine max cv. Williams '82) leaves by fractionation on discontinuous Percoll gradients as described below, and the quality of the mitochondria was determined by a cytochrome c reduction assay (Hrubec et al. CITATION). Intact mitochondria (200 μg protein) were incubated with 100 μl of PS-GFP extract (1 mg/ml protein) for 30 min at 25°C in a final volume of 300 μl of import buffer (0.25 M mannitol, 50 mM KCl, 10 mM MOPS pH 7.4, 2 mM ATP, 2 mM NADH, 1 mM MnCl2, 5 mM K3PO4 and 1% BSA). The sample was then divided into 100-μl aliquots and placed on ice. Two aliquots were incubated with 50 μg/ml proteinase K for 20 min at 25°C and for 15 min on ice. The third aliquot was not treated with proteinase K. Following incubation the mitochondrial suspensions were washed twice with import buffer and re-isolated on a Percoll gradient. The residual Percoll was removed by washing the mitochondria twice in import buffer, and the pellet was diluted in 300 μl of import buffer.  As a control, chloroplasts were isolated from 50 g of soybean leaves on a continuous Percoll gradient as described by Perry et al. (CITATION). Intact chloroplasts were incubated with 100 μl of PS-GFP extract or control GFP extract lacking the presequence for 30 min at 25°C in a final volume of 300 μl of import buffer with occasional mixing. Samples were then treated with proteinase K for 20 min at 25°C and for 15 min on ice. Chloroplasts were reisolated on a continuous Percoll gradient as above, washed twice with import buffer, and resuspended in 100 μl of import buffer. Fluorescence and differential interference contrast (DIC) microscopy were used to visualize samples. Standard fluorescein/rhodamine filter sets were used to scan the samples and to differentiate chloroplasts from mitochondria. At this excitation wavelength, chloroplasts emit red autofluorescence. We scanned the sequence of mtRecA for a region that is unique relative to RecA homologues from other organisms and could serve as an antigen to generate antibodies specific for this protein. While the regions corresponding to functional domains of the RecA homologues are highly conserved, the N-terminal region between the predicted mitochondrial targeting presequence and the protein-protein interaction domain of Arabidopsis mtRecA is unique. Moreover, this region shares no homology with ctRecA, or with any other predicted proteins from the complete Arabidopsis genome sequence. A 16-amino acid peptide (CELDEVPDDRKVAEKD) from this region was synthesized commercially. Two rabbits were immunized with this peptide and serum was recovered after 8 weeks (BioCarta, Carlsbad, Calif.) and used for Western analysis of proteins obtained from purified plant organelles. Leaves from 3-week-old A. thaliana (cv. Columbia) seedlings were used for isolation of organelle proteins to determine the localization of the mtRecA protein. Plant tissue was homogenized in cold Xpl buffer (0.33 M sorbitol, 0.05 M HEPES pH 7.5, 2 mM EDTA, 1 mM MgCl2, 5 mM sodium ascorbate, and 0.25% w/v BSA; Weigel and Glazebrook CITATION) in a blender containing a single double-edged razor blade. Three 5-s bursts were used to homogenize the material. The homogenate was filtered through three layers of Miracloth (Calbiochem), and the chloroplasts pelleted by centrifugation for 8 min at 3500 rpm. The resulting supernatant was transferred to clean centrifuge bottles for the recovery of mitochondria (see below). The chloroplast pellet was gently resuspended in a minimal volume of Xpl buffer, and layered onto a discontinuous 40%/80% Percoll gradient (Weigel and Glazebrook CITATION). The gradient was centrifuged in a swinging bucket rotor at 7500 rpm for 8 min with the brake off. Intact chloroplasts were recovered from the 40/80% boundary. The chloroplast fraction was diluted in 20 ml of Xpl buffer and centrifuged in a swinging bucket rotor for 5 min at 3500 rpm to remove the Percoll. The final chloroplast pellet was resuspended in minimal volume of TE buffer and lysed by adding an equal volume of 2× SDS-PAGE loading buffer and heating at 95°C for 5 min. Proteins were fractionated by SDS-PAGE and transferred to a PVDF membrane for Western analysis as described below. The supernatant from the first low-speed centrifugation step contains the mitochondrial fraction. This was centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for 10 min to pellet mitochondria. The pellet was resuspended in a minimal volume of Mito buffer (0.35 M mannitol, 0.03 M MOPS pH 7.3, 1 mM EDTA, 0.6% w/v polyvinylpyrrolidone, and 0.2% w/v BSA), diluted in the same buffer, and pelleted again (Weigel and Glazebrook CITATION). This pellet was resuspended in Mito buffer and carefully layered onto a discontinuous 21%/27%/45%/60% Percoll gradient. The gradient was centrifuged in a swinging bucket rotor at 10,500 rpm for 30 min with the brake off. Fractions (1 ml) from the bottom third of the gradient, avoiding any pellet at the bottom, were pooled and centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for 10 min to recover mitochondria. The mitochondria were washed in Mito buffer to remove Percoll as described above, resuspended in TE buffer and lysed by the addition of an equal volume of 2× SDS-PAGE loading buffer and heating at 95°C for 5 min. Samples were fractionated by SDS-PAGE and transferred to a PVDF membrane for Western analysis as follows. Duplicate gels were prepared, one for staining and one for transfer of proteins to membranes for Western analysis. Both unstained and prestained molecular weight markers were included for size determinations. Electrophoresis was carried out for 90 min at 125 V. One gel was stained in Coomassie Blue for 1 h, followed by destaining to visualize proteins. Proteins from the other gel were transferred to a PVDF membrane using a semi-dry electroblotter (BioRad). Membranes were blocked in TBS (50 mM TRIS-HCl pH 7.4, 200 mM NaCl) containing 5% nonfat dry milk for 1 h at room temperature. The antiserum against mtRecA was diluted 1:2500 in 20 ml of blocking buffer, and the membrane incubated in this solution with gentle shaking overnight at 4°C. Polyclonal antibodies raised against chloroplast a/b binding protein (Rose Biotechnology, 1:2500 dilution) and monoclonal antibodies against mitochondrial porin (kindly provided by Dr. Tom Elthon, 1:100 dilution) were used to monitor the purity of the chloroplast and mitochondrial protein preparations. After incubation with antibody, membranes were washed three times (for 15 min each) with TBS, the second wash containing 0.1% Tween 20. Membranes were blocked again as above, followed by incubation for 1 h at room temperature with a 1:40,000 dilution of goat anti-rabbit antibody conjugated with horseradish peroxidase (HRP; Promega). The membrane was washed three times as above, followed by incubation for 5 min in SuperSignal West Pico Substrate working solution (Pierce). The membrane was wrapped in plastic wrap and exposed to X-ray film for 5 s–2 min. The region encoding the mature mtRecA protein (1089 bp) was amplified by PCR and cloned into the pCRT7 TOPOTA vector (Invitrogen). The orientation of the gene was confirmed by sequencing. The resulting construct was called pT7mtrecA. E. coli BLR (DE3) was used as the host for over-expression of the recombinant protein. Over-expression was carried out by growth of the cells in Superbroth as indicated by the manufacturer (BD Biosciences). The culture was induced at 0.6 A600 with 1 mM IPTG and grown overnight at 37°C. Equal amounts of protein, adjusted according to the optical density of the overnight cultures, were fractionated on a 4–15% TRIS-HCl polyacrylamide gel (BioRad). Proteins were transferred to PVDF membrane as above, and the membranes were blocked overnight with 5% (w/v) non-fat dry milk in TBS at 4°C and incubated for 2 h with polyclonal antibodies raised against chloroplast RecA in rabbits, followed by incubation with HRP-conjugated anti-rabbit antibody. Cross-reacting proteins were visualized by color development using an HRP-conjugate substrate (BioRad). Cells were grown overnight in LB medium with appropriate antibiotics. Fresh LB (10 ml) was inoculated with 50 μl of overnight culture and grown at 37°C for 4 h. Isopropyl β-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG, 0.1 mM) was added and growth was allowed to continue for 30 min. The bacteria were then harvested and resuspended in 10 mM MgSO4 to a density of 3×108 colony-forming units (cfu) per ml. Cell suspensions were treated with different concentrations of the DNA-damaging agents methyl methanesulfonate (MMS) and mitomycin C according to Pang et al. (CITATION). Appropriate dilutions of treated cells were spread on LB plates in triplicate and incubated overnight at 37°C. The colony forming units were counted and the surviving fraction was calculated using the method described by Pang et al. (CITATION). The values presented are the means from three independent experiments.
