!~ABS~! Transcription of chloroplast genes is subject to control by nucleus-encoded proteins. The chloroplast-encoded RNA polymerase (PEP) is a eubacterial-type RNA polymerase that is presumed to assemble with nucleus-encoded σ-factors mediating promoter recognition. Recently, families of σ-factor genes have been identified in several plants including Arabidopsis. One of these genes, Arabidopsis SIG5, encodes a σ-factor, AtSig5, which is phylogenetically distinct from the other family members. To investigate the role of this plant σ-factor, two different insertional alleles of the SIG5 gene were identified and characterized. Heterozygous mutant plants showed no visible leaf phenotype, but exhibited siliques containing aborted embryos and unfertilized ovules. Our inability to recover plants homozygous for a SIG5 gene disruption indicates that SIG5 is an essential gene. SIG5 transcripts accumulate in flower tissues, consistent with a role for AtSig5 protein in reproduction. Therefore, SIG5 encodes an essential member of the Arabidopsis σ-factor family that plays a role in plant reproduction in addition to its previously proposed role in leaf chloroplast gene expression.
!~RES~! To study the function of AtSig5 in Arabidopsis, we screened two collections of insertional mutants for lines with T-DNAs located within the SIG5 gene. One such T-DNA-tagged line was recovered from each collection. The sig5-1 allele was identified in the WS ecotype by PCR-based screens of DNA pools derived from a collection of 60,480 Arabidopsis lines transformed with a derivative of the T-DNA vector (CITATION). In the recovered line, the T-DNA insertion was located after nucleotide number 198 of sig5 exon 5 (Fig. 1A). This insertion would generate an AtSig5 protein truncated in conserved region 3 and completely missing conserved region 4. Because these conserved domains are essential for bacterial σ-factor activity (CITATION; CITATION), it is presumed that a truncated AtSig5 protein expressed from sig5-1 would be nonfunctional. The second T-DNA insertional allele, sig5-2, was detected in the Columbia ecotype by screening a database of left border flanking sequences recovered by thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR from a collection of approximately 100,000 individual T-DNA mutagenized Arabidopsis plants (CITATION). In the identified line, the insertion follows nucleotide number 381 of the second exon of the sig5 gene (Fig. 1A) and would generate an AtSig5 protein missing all of the conserved domains essential for bacterial σ-factor activity. Thus, any protein expressed from sig5-2 would be predicted not to function as a σ-factor. DNA gel blots revealed more than one T-DNA insertion site in the line containing sig5-1 (data not shown). DNA gel-blot analyses on sig5-2 DNA, digested with restriction endonucleases that did not cut within the T-DNA, indicated a single T-DNA insertion site in the sig5-2 line (Fig. 1B, arrowhead). The large size of the restriction fragment hybridizing to the T-DNA-derived bar gene probe revealed that multiple T-DNAs had been inserted at that site. This was confirmed by PCR analysis (data not shown), although the exact arrangement and number of the T-DNAs was not determined. Because the sig5-2 line contained T-DNAs at a single insertion site, most of our analysis was done with the progeny of this line. We note that the phenotypes observed with the sig5-2 line were also seen in progeny from the sig5-1 line.   [[FIGURE]] Disruption of the gene for a plastid-localized σ-factor could potentially generate plants with defects in chloroplast gene expression and development, leading to a visible pale green leaf phenotype (CITATION). Because heterozygous mutant sig5-1 and sig5-2 lines had no visible leaf phenotype, we attempted to uncover lines homozygous for either allele. However, in neither case were any homozygous progeny recovered from selfed heterozygous mutant plants. The T2 and T3 progeny from sig5-2 selfed heterozygotes were two-thirds BASTA-resistant, and one-third sensitive, consistent with the lack of viable homozygous progeny. Sixty T-DNA-containing progeny (BASTA-resistant) of selfed sig5-2 heterozygotes were analyzed by PCR for the presence or absence of a wild-type SIG5 allele and for the presence of the sig5-2 allele. In each case, both a wild-type and a mutant allele were recovered demonstrating the presence of only heterozygous progeny (PCR results for a subset of the 60 progeny lines are shown in Fig. 2).   [[FIGURE]] The lack of homozygous progeny indicated that SIG5 might be essential for normal seed or embryo development. Therefore, siliques from selfed heterozygous sig5-1 and sig5-2 lines were examined for defective seeds. In both of the mutant lines, small wrinkled seeds and normal-looking seeds were detected in mature siliques (Fig. 3A). In addition, some immature siliques of both mutant lines contained gaps in the seed rows, indicative of multiple unfertilized ovules present between normal-looking developing seeds (Fig. 3B, arrowheads). This was in contrast to the immature siliques of wild-type plants, which were filled with round green seeds (Fig. 3C). A comparison of the appearance of unfertilized ovules and aborted embryos in mutant versus wild-type plants demonstrated a significantly higher frequency of defective siliques in the mutant plants compared with the wild type (Table I). The semisterility detected in sig5 mutant plants was not found in all siliques of the heterozygous sig5-2 lines. Moreover, within a silique exhibiting defective seeds or unfertilized ovules, the percentage of embryo or fertilization defects was not consistently 25%, as would be expected for a recessive lethal gene defect, but was higher or lower, depending on the silique. In each mutant heterozygous plant, some effected siliques contained up to 50% unfertilized ovules and could be identified without dissection because they were visibly shorter than other siliques on the plant (data not shown).   [[FIGURE]]    Frequency of defective siliques in selfed wild-type plants compared with selfed heterozygous sig5-2 plants  Siliques were opened with a razor blade, and contents were examined under a dissecting microscope. An average of 15 siliques were scored per plant. Note that percentages do not total 100% for each plant genotype because some siliques exhibited both aborted embryos and unfertilized ovules. These observations indicate that the semisterility of sig5 mutant plants is leaky. In this respect, the sig5 lines resemble mutants in the Arabidopsis PROLIFERA gene. A prolifera gene trap line exhibited homozygous embryo lethality, with heterozygous siliques containing a few unfertilized ovules as well as seeds with aborted embryos (CITATION). It is proposed that the prolifera silique phenotype is variable due to a varying requirement for maternal stores of the PROLIFERA RNA or protein during different stages of female gametogenesis and zygote development (CITATION). The similarity in phenotype could reflect a similar function for the SIG5 gene product. Alternatively, the leaky nature of the sig5 mutant phenotype could be due to partial complementation of the disrupted gene by other members of the Arabidopsis σ-factor gene family. The silique phenotype of the sig5-1 and sig5-2 lines indicated that AtSig5 may be required for gametogenesis and/or early embryogenesis. If this is the case, the SIG5 gene should be expressed in reproductive tissues in wild-type plants. Previously published analysis of SIG5 expression detected SIG5 transcripts in whole 12-d-old seedlings that had been ground up for RNA extraction (CITATION) and in rosette leaves of 4-week-old plants (CITATION). Expression of SIG5 in rosette leaves agrees with the previously proposed role for AtSig5 in chloroplast gene expression. To determine whether AtSig5 also accumulates in reproductive tissues, we did immunoblots on both vegetative and reproductive plant organs using an antibody raised against the NH2-terminal region of AtSig5. Because the NH2 terminus of AtSig5 is not conserved with the other Arabidopsis σ-factors (CITATION), this antibody is specific for the AtSig5 protein. Immunoblot analysis detected a band of the Mr predicted for AtSig5 (approximately 58 kD) in rosette leaves, stems, immature siliques, and flowers, but not in roots (Fig. 4, right panel, arrow). A lower Mr protein also detected by the antibody in tissues with higher expression levels of AtSig5 (stem and flower samples in Fig. 4) may be a degradation product of the AtSig5 protein. The detection of equivalent levels of a nonspecific band in each lane by preimmune serum (Fig. 4, left panel, asterisk) indicates that equal quantities of protein were loaded for each tissue sample. On the basis of the assumption of equal loading, it is evident that accumulation of AtSig5 protein is even higher in flowers than in leaves (Fig. 4, compare lanes L and F). Therefore, AtSig5 is expressed in reproductive as well as vegetative tissues, consistent with a role in plant reproduction.   [[FIGURE]] It has previously been noted (CITATION) that SIG5 has two potential in-frame AUG translational start codons, one (M1) located within intron 1, and the other (M2) located 75 bp downstream within exon 2 (diagrammed in Fig. 5A; sequence shown by Fujiwara et al. [CITATION]). Exon 1 is a non-coding exon whose function is currently unknown. Characterization of SIG5 cDNAs in leaf tissues by 5′-RACE (data not shown) and reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR (Fig. 5B) indicated that M2 was the initiating Met for AtSig5 in leaves because SIG5 leaf transcripts do not include intron 1 and therefore do not contain the M1 AUG codon (also diagrammed in Fig. 5A). However, in flower tissue, several products were amplified by RT-PCR from total RNA: a small PCR product similar in size to that amplified from leaf RNA (Fig. 5B, black arrow, compare lanes 3 and 5) and two lower-abundance larger fragments (Fig. 5B, lane 3, white arrowhead). Cloning and sequencing of the small flower RT-PCR product confirmed that it corresponded to the leaf-type RT-PCR product as expected based on its similar apparent size to the leaf product. Interestingly, one of the higher Mr products found in flower RNA but not leaf RNA was similar in size to the genomic PCR product (Fig. 5B, white arrowhead, compare control genomic PCR in lane 1 to lane 3), indicating that it may be an unspliced transcript. Several control reactions were done to demonstrate the absence of contaminating genomic DNA in the RNA preparations (Fig. 5B, lanes 2, 4, 7, and 8). Therefore, this additional RT-PCR product was derived from SIG5 transcripts present in the flower RNA population. Cloning and sequencing of this RT-PCR product confirmed that it was derived from a splice variant of the SIG5 transcript, in which intron 1 was not spliced out. Because intron 1 contains the M1 Met in frame with the downstream M2 (diagrammed in Fig. 5A), these data suggested that a subset of the AtSig5 protein in flower tissue could be composed of a longer AtSig5 variant, initiated at M1. Because this protein would be longer by only 25 amino acids, it would not be detectably different in size on immunoblots from leaf AtSig5 protein.   [[FIGURE]] Computer-based predictions of the intracellular location of AtSig5 differed depending on which NH2-terminal Met, M1 or M2, was used. The PSORT algorithm (CITATION) predicted a location in the chloroplast stroma for leaf AtSig5 initiated at the M2 AUG codon. In contrast, localization in the mitochondrial matrix was predicted for the flower variant of AtSig5 should it initiate at the M1 AUG codon. To determine the targeting properties of NH2-terminal peptides initiating at M1 or at M2, we fused two derivatives of these sequences to the coding sequence of GFP and determined the subcellular location of the fused GFP in transient expression assays (Fig. 6). Rosette leaves from Arabidopsis were bombarded with the GFP fusion constructs and then examined by laser scanning confocal microscopy to determine the subcellular location of GFP fluorescence in cells transiently expressing the fused GFP from a linked plant promoter and 35S enhancer sequences.   [[FIGURE]] As controls to demonstrate chloroplast and mitochondrial targeting patterns, GFP was fused to the chloroplast transit peptide sequence of Rubisco small subunit or to the mitochondrial targeting sequence of the F0F1 ATPase γ-subunit (CITATION; CITATION). Strong GFP fluorescence (Fig. 6, left panel, green signal) colocalizing with chloroplast autofluorescence (Fig. 6, right panel, red signal) was detected in leaf cells bombarded with the chloroplast control construct (Fig. 6A). Merging of the two fluorescent signals (Fig. 6, center panel) confirmed that the GFP fluorescence completely overlapped with the chloroplast autofluorescence, as evidenced by the yellow merged signal. In contrast, the GFP fluorescent signal was detected in punctate mitochondria in leaf cells bombarded with the mitochondrial control GFP fusion construct (Fig. 6B). As expected, this mitochondrial signal did not overlap with the chlorophyll autofluorescence. To examine the targeting properties of AtSig5 initiated at M2 we fused the M2 AUG codon followed by 105 downstream AtSig5 codons in frame with GFP. This fusion protein was exclusively targeted to chloroplasts when transiently expressed in leaf cells, as demonstrated by the overlap of the GFP signal with the chlorophyll autofluorescence signal (Fig. 6C). Therefore, proteins translated from SIG5 transcripts present in leaf tissues are likely localized to chloroplasts, in agreement with the proposed function of AtSig5 as a plastid RNA polymerase specificity factor. To determine whether translation initiation from M1 changed the targeting properties of AtSig5, we fused the 130 amino acids downstream of M1 to GFP. To ensure that the targeting properties we observed were due solely to protein initiated at M1, we mutagenized the M2 translational initiation codon in this construct to AUC, encoding Ile. Transient expression assays demonstrated that the new fusion protein had a GFP fluorescence pattern suggesting dual-targeting, because it exhibited not only the chloroplast localization pattern but also a pattern of punctuate fluorescence, consistent with mitochondrial localization (Fig. 6D). Therefore, AtSig5 protein in flowers could potentially be targeted not only to chloroplasts but also to mitochondria.
!~MM~! Upon request, all novel materials described in this publication will be made available in a timely manner for noncommercial research purposes, subject to the requisite permission from any third-party owners of all or parts of the material. Obtaining any permissions will be the responsibility of the requestor. Isolation of plants with the sig5 T-DNA insertion allele designated as sig5-1 was done by screening the T-DNA insertion collection generated by the Arabidopsis knockout facility at the University of Wisconsin Biotechnology Center (Madison). Two SIG5-specific primers, UNL257 (5′-TCACATTGTTATTAATCTGTGGACACCAT-3′) and UNL 258 (5′-CCTTGACTTCATGTTTCCTAACCATTTCT-3′), were submitted to the Wisconsin facility for first-round PCR screening with 30 DNA super pools. A positive product was identified in the amplification reaction from super pool number 4 with the SIG5-specific primer UNL258 and T-DNA left border primer JL-202 (5′-CATTTTATAATA ACGCTGCGGACATCTAC-3′). The product was sequenced by the Genomics Core Research Facility of University of Nebraska (Lincoln) and confirmed the presence of a T-DNA insertion in the SIG5 gene-coding sequence. Second-round PCR screens performed at the Wisconsin facility identified a positive subpool. Seeds from plants making up the subpool were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Columbus, OH) and were analyzed further to finally identify sig5-1 heterozygous plants by the same PCR-screening procedure. The second T-DNA insertional allele, sig5-2, was identified by screening an Arabidopsis (Columbia ecotype) T-DNA insertion collection generated by the Syngenta company and available for screening on a collaborative basis from the Torrey Mesa Research Institute (San Diego). The full-length SIG5 sequence was used to query the SAIL (formerly called GARLIC) database of Arabidopsis sequences flanking T-DNA left borders. One sequence from the database (Garlic_1232_H11) aligned with SIG5 sequence starting at nucleotide number 381 of exon 2. Seeds from this knockout line were obtained from the company and renamed sig5-2 plants. The presence of the insertional allele was confirmed by sequencing the PCR product from sig5-2 genomic DNA generated by a SIG5-specific primer, UNL257, and a T-DNA left border primer (5′-TAGCATCTGAATTTCATAACCAATCTCGATACAC-3′). The cDNA sequences encoding amino acids 140 to 258 of the AtSig5 NH2 terminus starting from the M2 AUG codon were amplified by PCR, using primers with restriction sites for subcloning of the products. Amplification primers were UNL207 (5′-ttggatccAGTGGTGAGGAGAAGAAAGTG-3′) and UNL179 (5′-ttctcgag TATTTCAGCTTCCCTAGGC-3′) where gene-specific sequences are indicated by uppercase letters. The amplified fragment was subcloned into vector pET28A (Novagen, Madison, WI) using the engineered restriction sites, BamHI and XhoI, to place the coding regions in frame with the vector NH2-terminal hexa-His sequence. Insert sequences were confirmed by sequencing. Recombinant protein expression was induced in BL21 (DE3) cells (Novagen) by addition of isopropylthio-β-galactoside to a final concentration of 1 mm. His-tagged proteins from the cell lysate were bound to Talon resin (BD Biosciences Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) in denaturing buffer and purified according to the manufacturer's protocols. Rabbit polyclonal antisera were prepared against purified recombinant protein by Bethyl Research Labs (Montgomery, TX). Wild-type Arabidopsis plants (ecotype Columbia) were grown at 23°C in cycling light (16 h of light/8 h of dark) for 35 d. Tissues were harvested and immediately ground under liquid nitrogen. Tissue powder were extracted using protein extraction buffer (0.5 m Suc, 0.1% [w/v] ascorbic acid, 0.1% [w/v] Cys-HCl, and 0.1 m Tris-HCl). Crude extracts were centrifuged to pellet insoluble debris. Supernatant protein extract was assayed for protein concentration using the Bio-Rad protein assay system (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). Protein extracts containing 5 μg of total protein were separated with 10% (w/v) SDS-PAGE on minigels and transferred to Immobilon-P polyvinylidene difluoride membranes (Millipore, Bedford, MA) with a Bio-Rad mini-transblot apparatus in Tris-Gly transfer buffer. After transfer, membranes were blocked overnight in 5% (w/v) nonfat dry milk and then incubated for 1 h in primary antibody (IgG fraction of rabbit anti-AtSig5) diluted 1:2,000. The secondary antibody incubation was performed for 1 h with donkey anti-rabbit horseradish peroxidase (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ) diluted 1:50,000. Secondary antibody detection was performed with an ECL-Plus kit using manufacturer-supplied protocols (Amersham Biosciences). For total RNA isolation, leaves were harvested from 4-week-old wild-type Arabidopsis (Columbia ecotype) plants and kept in liquid nitrogen. One hundred milligrams of leaf tissue was ground thoroughly under liquid nitrogen and was used to isolate total RNA with the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit from Qiagen (Valencia, CA). RNA recovery and quality was analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis. Ten micrograms of the RNA sample was used to determine SIG5 transcript 5′ ends with the FirstChoice RLM-RACE kit from Ambion (Austin, TX). Nested PCR primers designed according to the manufacturer's protocol were: UNL143 (5′-CAACATCATCCTCGACTAATG-3′) for outer PCR, and UNL144 (5′-CTGGATCCGGTTGCAGGACTAAGC-3′) for inner PCR. The product of the inner PCR reaction was sequenced for 5′-end determination. Sequences encoding the NH2-terminal 131 amino acids of AtSig5 starting from M1 and 106 amino acids starting from M2 were PCR-amplified and subcloned into the BamHI site of GFP expression vector 35S-C4PPDK-sGFP(S65T) (CITATION). Primers used were: UNL339 (5′-GTGGATCCATGAGATATGTTTCTGCTTG-3′) and UNL147 (5′-CGGGATCCGCTTTCAAGTCTTGCAGCAGCTT-3′) for the M1 construct and UNL284 (5′-TTGGATCCATGGGAGTTGTGTCTATTTC-3′) and UNL147 for the M2 construct. The inserts were sequenced to verify the insert orientation and the lack of PCR-based sequence errors. All control GFP vectors and transient assay protocols with leaf protoplasts were described previously (CITATION; CITATION). For transient assays in intact Arabidopsis leaf tissues, rosette leaves of 10-d-old greenhouse-grown seedlings (Columbia ecotype) were excised and arranged abaxial side up in a filled circle pattern on hormone-free Murashige and Skoog medium (CITATION). Plates were bombarded with 0.75-μm tungsten particles coated with 2 μg of vector DNA per shot. Bombarded leaf samples were incubated at 23°C in the dark for 24 h. Bombarded leaf pieces were mounted in water on glass slides for microscopy. Detection of GFP fluorescence and chlorophyll autofluorescence by laser scanning confocal microscopy was performed as described by Beardslee et al. (CITATION).
