!~ABS~! The transition to flowering in plants is regulated by environmental factors such as temperature and light (CITATION) . Plants grown under dense canopies or at high density perceive a decrease in the ratio of red to far-red incoming light. This change in light quality serves as a warning of competition, triggering a series of responses known collectively as the ‘shade-avoidance syndrome’. During shade avoidance, stems elongate at the expense of leaf expansion, and flowering is accelerated (CITATION) . Of the five phytochromes—a family of red/far-red light photoreceptors—in Arabidopsis, phytochrome B (phyB) has the most significant role in shade-avoidance responses (CITATION) , but the mechanisms by which phyB regulates flowering in response to altered ratios of red to far-red light are largely unknown. Here we identify PFT1 (PHYTOCHROME AND FLOWERING TIME 1), a nuclear protein that acts in a phyB pathway and induces flowering in response to suboptimal light conditions. PFT1 functions downstream of phyB to regulate the expression of FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT), providing evidence for the existence of a light-quality pathway that regulates flowering time in plants.
!~RES~! The phytochromes and the blue/ultraviolet-A photoreceptors called cryptochromes (cry1 and cry2 in Arabidopsis) are critical photoreceptors that regulate seedling emergence and floral induction (CITATION) . Several components involved in phytochrome signalling in seedlings have been isolated and characterized in recent years (CITATION) . Seedlings defective in phyA signalling are tall under far-red light (FR), whereas those defective in phyB signalling are tall under red light (R). Later in development, light perceived by phyA and cry2 generates a signal that is required by CO (CONSTANS) to activate FT, a mechanism essential for day-length discrimination (CITATION) . Despite the large number of phytochrome components identified, the mechanisms by which phytochromes regulate seedling development and flowering time are still largely unknown (CITATION) . To identify components involved in phytochrome regulation of flowering time in Arabidopsis, we devised a new genetic screen (see Methods). Seedlings showing an enhanced response to pulses of red light were selected and transplanted to soil and then scored for defects in flowering time. One of the recessive mutants, pft1, is characterized in detail here. Consistent with a role in phytochrome signalling, pft1 mutants displayed small but significant effects on hypocotyl-length inhibition under both red and far-red light (Fig. 1a). The mutants were hypo-responsive to far-red and hyper-responsive to red. These altered responses to light required functional phyA and phyB (Fig. 1a). The levels of phyA and phyB protein were unaltered in pft1 compared with wild type, suggesting that PFT1 affects processes downstream of phyA and phyB (data not shown). Negative effects of phyA signalling on phyB signalling, as well as negative effects of phyB on phyA function, have been reported previously (CITATION) . The pft1 mutation has opposite effects on phyA- and phyB-mediated responses, indicating that PFT1 may function in phytochrome signalling at a node where antagonistic interactions occur between phyA and phyB. The pft1 mutants had normal responses to blue light (data not shown), suggesting that PFT1 is specific for phytochrome action and is not a general regulator of light responsiveness. [[FIGURE]] pft1 mutants displayed a late-flowering phenotype when grown under long-day conditions (LD, 16 h light/8 h dark; Fig. 1b, c). phyA and phyB regulate flowering time in opposing ways: phyB acts to delay flowering under both long- and short-day (SD, 9 h light/15 h dark) conditions, whereas phyA weakly promotes flowering in long days (CITATION) . We measured flowering time under both LD and SD conditions in pft1, pft1 phyB, pft1 phyA and pft1 phyA phyB mutants, and compared the results with phyB, phyA and phyA phyB mutants (Fig. 1c, d). pft1 was late flowering and completely suppressed the early-flowering phenotype of phyB in both LD and SD conditions, strongly suggesting that PFT1 is essential for phyB regulation of flowering time. The effects of pft1 on the photoperiodic induction of flowering were relatively minor in both wild-type and in phytochrome mutant backgrounds (Fig. 1c, d), indicating that PFT1 is unlikely to act in the photoperiod pathway that induces flowering. PFT1 may also act downstream of phyA, as the effects of phyA and pft1 mutations in delaying flowering under LD were not additive. However, a phyA-dependent photoperiod response is still present in the absence of PFT1 or phyB, because pft1 phyA phyB mutants flowered significantly later than pft1 phyB mutants under LD but not SD. It has been proposed (CITATION) that phyA can promote flowering by two independent mechanisms: by suppressing phyB function, and independently of phyB. Our data are consistent with this report, and they suggest that the effects of pft1 on phyA regulation of flowering time may be an indirect effect of changes in the phyB pathway. The increased petiole length of phyB mutants was largely unaffected in the pft1 phyB double mutants (Fig. 1e). These results, together with the mild effects of pft1 on hypocotyl length, the strong response to photoperiod in pft1 mutants in phytochrome-deficient backgrounds and the complete suppression of phyB's early-flowering phenotype suggest that the main role of PFT1 in phytochrome signalling is to regulate flowering time downstream of phyB in a photoperiod-independent pathway. Cloning of PFT1 revealed that it encodes a putative protein of 836 amino acids, with a predicted vWF-A (von Willebrand factor type A) domain in the amino terminus (CITATION) and a glutamine-rich region in the carboxy terminus, reminiscent of some transcriptional activators (CITATION) (Fig. 2a). vWF-A domains are widely distributed among all phyla (CITATION) . They are involved in various cellular processes, and a high proportion have a divalent cation-binding site that in some cases has been shown to mediate protein–protein interactions (CITATION) . The DxSxS motif involved in coordination with a divalent cation is converted to ExTxA in PFT1. It is unclear whether this partially conserved motif in PFT1 can still bind a metal. [[FIGURE]] The pft1 mutant produced a truncated messenger RNA (Fig. 2b), and transformation with a genomic copy of PFT1 rescued both the seedling and flowering time defects (Fig. 2d–f). We found that PFT1 is limiting for flowering under SD, as overexpression of PFT1 caused an early-flowering phenotype under these conditions (Fig. 2f, g). This result is also consistent with the strongest effects of the phyB mutation observed under SD (Fig. 1c, d). Transformation of pft1 plants with PFT1 complementary DNA under the strong 35S promoter also produced a high proportion of co-suppressed plants whose phenotypes were not more severe than the pft1 mutant. These data support the interpretation that the pft1 allele is a strong or null allele (Fig. 2f, g and data not shown). To study the subcellular localization of PFT1, we fused the gene encoding green fluorescent protein (GFP) to either the N or the C terminus of PFT1 in the context of the genomic clone. These constructs encoded a functional protein, as they complemented the pft1 phenotype (data not shown). Both N- and C-terminal GFP fusions localized to the nucleus (Fig. 2c and data not shown). The subcellular location of PFT1–GFP did not change in response to red, far-red or white light (data not shown). These observations, together with the mild effect of the phyB mutation on PFT1 mRNA levels (see Supplementary Information), indicate that phyB regulation of PFT1 activity occurs post-transcriptionally or through association with other proteins. The glutamine-rich region of PFT1 (Fig. 2a), its nuclear localization (Fig. 2c) and its ability to activate transcription in yeast when fused to the LexA DNA-binding domain (data not shown) suggested that PFT1 might function as a transcriptional co-activator. To test the nature of phyB suppression by pft1, we investigated its role in the regulation of key genes that affect flowering time. FT is an integrator of several flowering time pathways (CITATION) . FT expression is lower in phyA and cry2 mutants in conditions where these mutants are late flowering (CITATION) . We analysed the expression patterns of FT mRNA in wild-type, phyB, pft1 and phyB pft1 double mutants. We first tested expression levels in 8-day-old seedlings, as previously described (CITATION) . In LD-grown seedlings, FT expression was substantially higher in phyB mutants than in wild type (Fig. 3a, b), indicating that phyA and phyB have opposing roles in flowering by differentially regulating FT expression. By contrast, these differences were not found in 8-day-old seedlings grown in SD, consistent with previous reports (CITATION) (data not shown). This could be due to the lack of commitment to flowering of SD-grown seedlings at this early stage of development (wild-type plants produce about 70 leaves in SD conditions, whereas primary leaves are just emerging in 8-day-old seedlings). Thus, we tested FT mRNA levels in 26-day-old plants grown in SD, a time at which phyB mutants are roughly two weeks from showing visible floral buds. Under these conditions, we observed a large increase in FT mRNA levels in phyB mutants compared with wild-type plants (Fig. 3c, d). These data thus provide a molecular mechanism for the early flowering time of phyB mutants in both LD and SD. Moreover, FT mRNA levels were low in pft1 and pft1 phyB double mutants in all the conditions tested (Fig. 3a–d), pointing to the molecular mechanism for the suppression of the early-flowering-time phenotype of phyB mutants by pft1. [[FIGURE]] CO is a key component (CITATION) of the photoperiod pathway, which integrates information from the circadian clock (CITATION) as well as phyA and cry2 signalling (CITATION) . CO also directly activates FT expression (CITATION) . We found higher levels of CO mRNA in LD-grown phyB seedlings than in wild type, and lower levels in the pft1 background, suggesting that PFT1 might function upstream of CO in the regulation of FT (Fig. 3a, b). However, in SD-grown plants, we were unable to detect increased levels of CO in phyB mutants, nor were the levels decreased in the pft1 background (Fig. 3c, d). We extended this analysis to SOC1, another floral integrator (CITATION) , and did not observe a correlation of SOC1 mRNA levels with flowering time, in either phyB or pft1 mutant backgrounds (see supplement to Fig. 3 in Supplementary Information). The lack of a significant correlation between CO and SOC1 mRNA levels with phyB and pft1 flowering times suggests that phyB regulates FT mRNA levels by a PFT1-dependent mechanism that does not involve changes in CO or SOC1 mRNA levels. It has been suggested that light post-translationally regulates CO activity (CITATION) . However, pft1 does not have a significant effect on flowering time or on FT mRNA levels in a CO-overexpressing line, arguing that PFT1 does not have a significant role in the post-translational regulation of CO (Fig. 4a and data not shown). [[FIGURE]] If PFT1 has a specific role in a phyB pathway that regulates flowering time in response to changes in light quality, then pft1 mutants should be unable to accelerate flowering in response to shade conditions. We grew wild-type plants and pft1 mutants in SD followed by an end-of-day pulse of far-red (EODFR) or red (EODR) light. The EODFR pulse mimics the effects of shade, including accelerated flowering. The promotion of flowering by the EODFR treatment (compared with EODR controls) was severely impaired in the pft1 and pft1 phyA mutants compared with wild type and phyA, respectively (Fig. 4b), consistent with a role in signalling after perception of low red/far-red ratios. It is possible that PFT1 acts in an autonomous pathway, independently of changes in light quality, but we feel that this is unlikely, as pft1 effects on flowering are mild, except in a phyB background, and the pft1 mutation specifically impairs the response to low red/far-red ratios. As mentioned, it is also unlikely that PFT1 has a role in a photoperiod pathway, as pft1 and pft1 phyB double mutants show a strong response to photoperiod (Fig. 1c, d), in contrast to co and co phyB double mutants (CITATION) . This notion is reinforced by our observation that PFT1 can regulate FT mRNA levels by mechanisms that do not involve CO. Finally, the pattern of expression of FT in phyB and pft1 single and double mutants indicates that the activation of FT occurs downstream of PFT1 in a phyB pathway, consistent with the lack of effect of the pft1 mutation in a FT-overexpressing background (Fig. 4c). A ‘light-quality’ pathway has been proposed (CITATION) to explain the role of phyB and other stable phytochromes (phyD and phyE in Arabidopsis) in flowering. This light-quality perception pathway may be involved in the shade-avoidance syndrome triggered in response to low red/far-red ratios (CITATION) . Here we present genetic and molecular evidence that this light-quality pathway exists, and we incorporate a new component, PFT1, into this signalling pathway. Our results are consistent with a model (Fig. 4d) in which PFT1 acts in a light-quality pathway downstream of phyB. The resulting signal is then integrated with the photoperiod pathway through the modulation of FT transcription.
!~MM~! Except when stated otherwise, all experiments were done in the Columbia accession. The alleles for the different mutants used were phyA211 and phyB9. FT- and CO-overexpressing lines were provided by D. Weigel. Seeds were sterilized using chlorine in a vapour phase. For RNA extraction, we used total seedlings grown in MS media without sucrose, or shoots from mature plants grown on soil. For hypocotyl measurements, seedlings were grown in water–agar medium. Red and far-red light treatments were done in chambers of light-emitting diodes (Percival Scientific) at 23 °C. White light sources were always from fluorescent tubes, 40–70 µmol m-2 s for LD and SD, respectively, except for incandescent light extensions (LI) with 2 µmol m-2 s of photosynthetic active radiation (400–700 nm). For the genetic screen, activation-tagged transfer DNA lines were obtained from the Arabidopsis Stock Center as pools representing around 100 lines each. These lines are at least in the T3 generation, so recessive mutations can also be found. Each pool was plated on water–agar medium, and stratified for 3 days. Germination was induced by 1 h of white light, and then seedlings received 5 min of red light every 24 h. On the fourth day, seedlings were scored for signs of de-etiolation, such as shorter hypocotyls or partially opened cotyledons, and transplanted to soil to score adult phenotypes. Genomic DNA was extracted from pft1 mutants, cut with HindIII and EcoRI for right border rescue, and with BamHI and SpeI for left border rescue, and ligated and electroporated into SURE competent cells (Stratagene). Genomic DNA was successfully rescued with HindIII, BamHI and SpeI restriction enzymes. We designed specific oligonucleotides to detect by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) the T-DNA insertion in hemizygous and homozygous lines. The following three primers were used in PCR: 5′-CAGAGGAACCCTGTTTCTACTGTTGAGCT-3′, 5′-CGTTACTTGGTTGAGCTTGGCCTGAAGGA-3′ and 5′-TCCCGGACATGAAGCCATTTATATGTA-3′. The expected PCR products were 563 base pairs (bp) for the wild type and 491 bp for the mutant, and both bands were detected in hemizygotes. The T-DNA co-segregated with the pft1 mutation in 140 chromosomes analysed. We also tested 36 F3 populations and noted that the Basta resistance (conferred by the T-DNA) also co-segregated with the pft1 mutation. Southern blot data and the rescued genomic DNA sequence agreed with a single insertion on BAC F2J7 from chromosome I. Intron–exon junctions were derived by comparison with EST clone APZL03h11R (GenBank accession number AV528220). To confirm the 5′ end, RACE (rapid amplification of cDNA ends)–PCR was performed using the GeneRacer kit according to the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen). In pft1 mutants, an mRNA species of lower molecular weight was observed (Fig. 3b). We used RACE–PCR to characterize this form further, and found that it corresponds to a 2.5-kilobase (kb) truncated form of PFT1 that initiates within the T-DNA. The genomic PFT1 clone was subcloned from BAC F2J7 in two consecutive steps into binary plasmid pPZP212, finally as a PstI–SacI 8.5-kb fragment and introduced into pft1 mutants by transformation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Transgenic lines were selected on MS media supplemented with 50 µg ml-1 of kanamycin, screened for single-locus insertions in the T2 generation, and the homozygous lines from the T3 generation used for physiological experiments. To make the GFP fusion proteins, EcoRI sites were introduced in-frame right before the ATG start codon (for GFP–PFT1 fusions) and right before the TAA stop codon (for PFT1–GFP fusions). The GFP-coding region amplified by PCR was subcloned into these EcoRI sites, and final constructs were confirmed by sequencing before being used for plant transformation as described above. To assess a phenotype of overexpression, the PFT1 cDNA was subcloned in two steps as a BamHI–PstI–PstI fragment into CHF1 and CHF3 plasmids under the 35S constitutive promoter. After plant transformation, lines were selected on kanamycin (CHF3-derived plasmids) or gentamycin (70 µg ml-1 CHF1-derived plasmids). Specific mRNAs were extracted and quantified by RT–PCR (PCR with reverse transcription), essentially as described (CITATION) . mRNA was reverse transcribed using the 1st cDNA synthesis kit according to the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen). Primers, annealing temperatures and the size of PCR products expected were as follows: FT, 5′-GCTACAACTGGAACAACCTTTGGCAAT-3′, 5′-TATAGGCATCATCACCGTTCGTTACTC-3′, 63 °C, 365 bp; CO, 5′-AAACTCTTTCAGCTCCATGACCACTACT-3′, 5′-CCATGGATGAAATGTATGCGTTATGGTTA-3′, 62 °C, 453 bp; UBQ10, 5′-GGTGTCAGAACTCTCCACCTCAAGAGTA-3′, 5′-TCAATTCTCTCTACCGTGATCAAGATGCA-3′, 64 °C, 318 bp; TSF, 5′-GAAATTTCTACACCTTGGTTATGGTGGA-3′, 5′-CTTTACATCGATGTCAGCATATGCATCA-3′, 63 °C, 484 bp. In all cases, at least one of the primers used for PCR spanned intron–exon junctions, and amplification of genomic DNA was undetectable in non-retrotranscribed controls. SOCI/AGL20 was quantified by RT–PCR, as described (CITATION) . PCR products were detected by Southern blot using standard methodology, and quantified using a Phosphorimager (Molecular Dynamics) in the exponential range of amplification.
