!~ABS~! The plant hormone ethylene is perceived by a five-member family of receptors related to the bacterial histidine kinases. The Raf-like kinase CTR1 functions downstream of the ethylene receptors as a negative regulator of ethylene signal transduction. CTR1 is shown here to be associated with membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum in Arabidopsis as a result of its interactions with ethylene receptors. Membrane association of CTR1 is reduced by mutations that eliminate ethylene receptors and by a mutation in CTR1 that reduces its ability to bind to the ethylene receptor ETR1. Direct evidence that CTR1 is part of an ethylene receptor signaling complex was obtained by co-purification of the ethylene receptor ETR1 with a tagged version of CTR1 from an Arabidopsis membrane extract. The histidine kinase activity of ETR1 is not required for its association with CTR1, based on co-purification of tagged ETR1 mutants and CTR1 after expression in a transgenic yeast system. These data demonstrate that CTR1 is part of an ethylene receptor signaling complex in Arabidopsis and support a model in which localization of CTR1 to the endoplasmic reticulum is necessary for its function. Additional data that demonstrate a post-transcriptional effect of ethylene upon the expression of CTR1 suggest that production of ethylene receptor signaling complexes may be coordinately regulated. 
!~RES~! Analysis of CTR1 Expression in Arabidopsis—To characterize the CTR1 protein in plants, we prepared a polyclonal antibody directed against CTR1. This antibody recognizes a protein of 92 kDa in Arabidopsis membranes, consistent with the calculated molecular mass of 90 kDa for CTR1 (Fig. 1A). As would be predicted, this protein is absent in the loss-of-function ctr1-2 mutant line. The ctr1-2 mutant has a 17-bp deletion that results in a frameshift within the coding region (18).   [[FIGURE]] The CTR1 protein was found to be ethylene-induced, based upon treatment of seedlings with the ethylene precursor aminocyclopropane carboxylic acid (ACC) or with ethylene itself (Fig. 1). The protein levels of CTR1 were 3-fold higher in ACC-treated seedlings compared with untreated seedlings (Fig. 1A). Treatment of Arabidopsis seedlings with 100 μl/liter ethylene resulted in an apparent increase in CTR1 levels within 15 min, with a maximal 4-fold increase in CTR1 levels observed 60 min after the initiation of ethylene treatment (Fig. 1B).  Ethylene induction at the mRNA level has been previously noted for a CTR1-like gene from tomato (39, 40), but was not previously observed for Arabidopsis (18). To determine if ethylene induction of CTR1 in Arabidopsis occurred at the transcriptional or post-transcriptional level, transcript levels of CTR1 were determined by Northern blot in both ACC-treated and untreated plants (Fig. 1C). No change in transcript levels of CTR1 was detected, consistent with previous studies (18), thereby indicating that the differences in CTR1 protein levels are likely due to post-transcriptional mechanisms of regulation.  Localization of CTR1 to the Endoplasmic Reticulum—Immunoblot analysis of microsomal and soluble protein extracts revealed that CTR1 was associated with the membrane fraction of Arabidopsis (Fig. 1), despite CTR1 itself lacking transmembrane domains or obvious sites for lipid modification (18). To resolve the subcellular membrane localization of CTR1, sucrose density gradient centrifugation was performed on Arabidopsis microsomes (Fig. 2). Centrifugation was performed under conditions that would allow for the discrimination of ER-associated proteins, the ER being a logical membrane location for CTR1 based on the previous finding that the ethylene receptor ETR1 is localized to the ER (11). Centrifugation was thus performed in the presence and absence of Mg2+. Association of ribosomes with the ER is Mg2+-dependent, so removal of Mg2+ results in dissociation of ribosomes from the ER and a diagnostic redistribution of ER from higher to lower density on the gradient (41).   [[FIGURE]] Fractions from the sucrose gradient were analyzed by immunoblot for the presence of CTR1 as well as for markers specific for PM, mitochondria, tonoplast, and ER (Fig. 2). The majority of CTR1 exhibited a strong Mg2+-dependent density-shift from 40–41% to 32–36% (w/w) sucrose, similar to that observed for the ER markers ACA2 and ETR1. The distribution of CTR1 could be differentiated from the plasma membrane marker (H+-ATPase), the mitochondrial inner membrane marker (pM021), the tonoplast marker (VM23), and the chloroplast thylakoid marker (chlorophyll absorbance), which did not demonstrate the same Mg2+-induced shift. CTR1 could be differentiated from the Golgi marker (latent UDPase), which had a broader distribution than CTR1 in the Mg2+-containing gradient and fractionated as two peaks. Although the majority of CTR1 is associated with the ER based on sucrose density gradient centrifugation, a small amount of CTR1 did not demonstrate a Mg2+-dependent density-shift and may thus represent protein that resides at another membrane.  Effect of Mutations in CTR1 upon its Membrane Association—Loss-of-function mutations have been isolated in CTR1 (18, 19). We analyzed these mutants for their effects upon the expression of CTR1 and the ability of CTR1 to associate with membranes. For this purpose, we performed one set of experiments using dark-grown seedlings because this is a growth condition that displays a pronounced and well-characterized ethylene response (4–6). However, we were able to detect CTR1 only in the membrane fraction of dark-grown seedlings (Fig. 1A), potentially due to rapid turnover of any soluble CTR1. We therefore performed a second set of experiments using plants grown in liquid culture under lights, because with this growth condition CTR1 was detectable in the soluble fraction as well as in the membrane fraction. In both sets of experiments, plants were treated with ACC to induce the ethylene receptors and CTR1 to their maximal expression levels, thus helping to equalize expression of these ethylene-induced genes in the different genetic backgrounds. Results from these experiments are discussed below.  Various ctr1 alleles were analyzed to determine if they produced stable ctr1 protein and if the mutation affected association with membranes. All the mutants examined displayed a constitutive ethylene response phenotype in both dark-grown seedlings and plants grown in liquid culture (19 and data not shown). The ctr1-2 is a 17-bp deletion that results in a frame-shift within the first third of the coding region (Fig. 3A) (18). No CTR1 protein was detected in ctr1-2 seedlings (Figs. 1 and 3), suggesting that the protein is absent or prematurely terminated. The ctr1-1 and ctr1-4 alleles are missense mutations affecting highly conserved residues of the kinase domain (18, 19). The ctr1-1 mutant protein expressed and purified from baculovirus has been demonstrated to lack kinase activity (19). Although there was some variability in the ctr1-1 and ctr1-4 protein expression levels, which was dependent upon the growth condition used, both proteins were readily detected in membranes isolated from Arabidopsis (Fig. 3), indicating that the mutant phenotype arises from the lack of kinase activity rather than destabilization of the protein. The ctr1-8 allele is a missense mutation is in the N-terminal half of CTR1 that alters a residue that is highly invariant in a domain (the CN box) found in CTR1-like proteins in Arabidopsis and other plants. The ctr1-8 allele does not affect the kinase activity of purified heterologous CTR1 protein in vitro, but rather has been shown to reduce the ability of CTR1 to interact with the ethylene receptor ETR1 using yeast two-hybrid analysis (19). The level of membrane-associated ctr1-8 protein was substantially reduced compared with that found in wild type (Fig. 3), in both dark-grown seedlings and plants grown in liquid culture. Analysis of plants grown in liquid culture revealed that coincident with the decrease in membrane-associated ctr1-8 was an increase in the level of soluble ctr1-8 (Fig. 3C), indicating that the ctr1-8 mutation did not simply reduce expression of the mutant protein but instead reduced its ability to associate with membranes.   [[FIGURE]] Effect of Mutations in Ethylene Receptors upon the Membrane Association of CTR1—If membrane localization of CTR1 is mediated by interactions between CTR1 and the ethylene receptors, then elimination of ethylene receptors should result in a decrease in the level of CTR1 found associated with the membranes. Loss-of-function mutations have been isolated in ethylene receptor family members ETR1, ETR2, ERS2, and EIN4 (42). All of these mutations are predicted to eliminate production of full-length protein, due to premature stop codons (etr1, etr2, and ein4 mutations) or a T-DNA insertion in the coding region (ers2 mutation). Lack of full-length protein has been confirmed for the etr1 loss-of-function mutations (24). In addition, a T-DNA insertion mutation has been identified in the 5′-untranslated region of the gene that encodes the ethylene receptor ERS1 (16, 24). This mutation reduces ERS1 mRNA expression, and genetic evidence indicates that this mutant has reduced function compared with wild-type ERS1. Previous analyses of these ethylene-receptor mutants have indicated that whereas the single mutants have minimal effect upon ethylene responses in the plant, double and triple mutants induce progressively more pronounced ethylene-like responses in the plants (16, 24, 42). We examined single mutants as well as double and triple mutant combinations to determine if these had reduced levels of membrane-associated CTR1.  In dark-grown seedlings, only the ers1 mutant by itself resulted in a significant reduction of membrane-associated CTR1 (Fig. 4A). The other single receptor mutants either had little effect or, in the case of the etr1 mutant, actually resulted in an increased level of CTR1 at the membrane. In liquid culture, the single mutants also had little effect upon the levels of membrane associated CTR1, the etr1 mutant again resulting in increased levels of membrane-associated CTR1. Whereas most single receptor mutants had limited effect upon the level of membrane-associated CTR1, double and triple mutants of the receptors resulted in decreased levels of membrane-associated CTR1 (Fig. 4). The triple mutants had substantially reduced levels of membrane-associated CTR1 when analyzed with either dark-grown seedlings or liquid cultures. By use of plants grown in liquid culture, a re-distribution of CTR1 from the membrane fraction to the soluble fraction could be observed in the triple mutants (Fig. 4B). These data indicate that ethylene receptors are required for the association of CTR1 with the membrane, because elimination of multiple receptors resulted in a re-distribution of CTR1 from the membrane to the soluble fraction. These data also demonstrate that this requirement is not strictly additive; for example, the single mutants of etr2 and ein4 have only a minimal effect upon CTR1 association with the membrane, but the double etr2/ein4 mutant substantially reduces the level of membrane-associated CTR1.   [[FIGURE]] Participation of CTR1 in Ethylene Receptor Signaling Complexes—The membrane association of CTR1 was examined by treatment of membranes with NaCl and detergents (Fig. 5). Treatment of membranes with NaCl was not effective for extraction of CTR1, indicating that the interaction of CTR1 with membranes does not rely solely upon ionic interactions. Treatment of membranes with the non-ionic detergent Triton X-100 was also not effective for extraction of CTR1 from membranes. Triton X-100 is capable of solubilizing peripheral and single-pass transmembrane proteins from plants (43–45), but is not effective for solubilizing the multi-pass transmembrane receptor ETR1 (Fig. 5). We found that CTR1, like ETR1, could be solubilized by treatment of Arabidopsis membranes with lysophosphatidylcholine (Fig. 5), an ionic phospholipid containing a single fatty acid chain. Thus, CTR1 is extracted from membranes under the same conditions that solubilize the transmembrane receptor ETR1, although CTR1 has no transmembrane domains itself, consistent with CTR1 being part of an ethylene receptor signaling complex.   [[FIGURE]] To obtain direct evidence that CTR1 is part of an ethylene-receptor signaling complex in plants, we made a tagged version of CTR1. The tagged version of CTR1, called CTR1-MT, contains a c-Myc epitope tag to aid in immunological detection and a Tandem Affinity Purification (TAP) tag to aid in affinity purification (Fig. 6A). The CTR1-MT construct was transformed into the ctr1-2 mutant line of Arabidopsis that contains a loss-of-function mutation in the CTR1 gene (18). The CTR1-MT construct rescued the ctr1-2 mutant phenotype (constitutive ethylene response) indicating that the tagged version of CTR1 is functional (Fig. 6B). The tagged version of CTR1 could be detected by immunoblot analysis using either an antic-Myc antibody or an anti-CTR1 antibody, and was typically observed as a doublet with molecular masses of 129 and 118 kDa (Fig. 6C). The 129-kDa polypeptide presumably represents the full-length CTR1-MT protein that has a predicted molecular mass of 123 kDa. The 118-kDa polypeptide may arise due to limited proteolysis of the full-length polypeptide.   [[FIGURE]] The CTR1-MT protein was affinity purified by incubating lysophosphatidylcholine-solublized membrane proteins with IgG beads. The IgG beads bind the protein-A portion of the TAP tag, resulting in affinity purification of CTR1-MT (Fig. 6C). Significantly, we found that the ethylene receptor ETR1 copurified with CTR1-MT on the IgG beads (Fig. 6C). Controls confirmed that IgG beads did not bind native CTR1 solubilized from wild-type plants; nor did IgG beads bind BiP a resident protein of the plant endoplasmic reticulum; nor did IgG beads bind ETR1 in a background that lacks CTR1-MT. Our results thus support the association of both ETR1 and CTR1 within the same protein complex.  Interaction of CTR1 with ETR1 Does Not Require the Histidine Kinase Activity of ETR1—Evidence obtained from two-hybrid analysis and in vitro binding studies indicates that CTR1 can directly interact with the histidine kinase domain of ETR1 and other ethylene receptors (19, 22, 23). Whereas ETR1 has histidine kinase activity (14), some members of the ethylene receptor family contain diverged histidine kinase domains predicted to lack this enzymatic activity, thereby calling into question the role of histidine kinase activity in the interactions between ethylene receptors and CTR1. We previously demonstrated that the histidine kinase domain of ETR1 has enzymatic activity when expressed in yeast, in contrast to what we observed when the same domain is expressed in E. coli (14). We therefore used the yeast expression system to assess the ability of CTR1 to interact with functional ETR1. Various GST fusions of ETR1 were co-expressed in yeast with a portion of CTR1 predicted to interact with ETR1 based on the two-hybrid analysis (22). The GST fusions of ETR1 were affinity-purified by binding to glutathione-agarose, and the presence of associated CTR1 determined immunologically.  CTR1 co-purified with affinity-purified GST-ETR1-(164–738), but not with affinity-purified GST alone, indicating that binding to the fusion protein was specific for the ETR1 domain (Fig. 7). A GST fusion containing just the histidine kinase domain of ETR1 (GST-ETR1-(333–609)) also bound CTR1, indicating that the GAF and receiver domains of ETR1 are not required for the interaction between ETR1 and CTR1. Site-directed mutations were used to test the necessity of the ETR1 histidine kinase activity for binding to CTR1. The glycine-containing G1 and G2 boxes are both part of the ATP binding site of histidine kinases, and mutations within these boxes eliminate autophosphorylation of ETR1 (14, 15). His-353 is the presumptive autophosphorylation site of ETR1 and mutation of this residue also abolishes autophosphorylation of ETR1 (14). None of these site-directed mutations eliminated the interaction between GST-ETR1 and CTR1, and thus indicate that the histidine kinase activity of ETR1 is not required for its interaction with CTR1.   [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Membrane Fractionation—Microsomal and soluble fractions were isolated from either dark-grown Arabidopsis seedlings (24) or Arabidopsis plants grown in liquid culture with an 18-h light period (11), using a homogenization buffer containing 30 mm Tris (pH 8.3 at 4 °C), 150 mm NaCl, 10 mm EDTA, and 20% (v/v) glycerol with protease inhibitors as described (11, 24). Briefly, plant material was homogenized and then centrifuged at 8,000 × g for 15 min. The supernatant was then centrifuged at 100,000 × g for 30 min, and the resulting membrane pellet resuspended in 10 mm Tris (pH 7.6 at 22 °C), 150 mm NaCl, 1 mm EDTA, and 10% (v/v) glycerol with protease inhibitors.  Sucrose density gradient centrifugation was performed as described (11) using 20–50% (w/w) sucrose gradients in 10 mm Tris (pH 7.6), 1 mm dithiothreitol, 2 mm EDTA, and 0.1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. For analyses performed in the presence of Mg2+,5mm MgCl2 was added to homogenization, resuspension, and centrifugation buffers. Gradient fractions were analyzed for the presence of the ER, PM, mitochondrial inner membrane, and tonoplast by immunoblot using antibodies that recognized specific membrane markers. Thylakoid membranes were identified by spectrophotometric analysis of chlorophyll levels, and Golgi membranes were identified based on Triton X-100-stimulated UDPase activity (25).  Antibodies and Immunoblot Analysis—For preparation of the CTR1 antibody, a fusion protein was made of CTR1 with a His6 tag (CTR1–6His). A HindIII to BglII fragment of the CTR1 cDNA (18), encoding Lys310 to Leu678 of CTR1, was cloned into the HindIII and BamH I sites of the expression vector pET15b (Novagen). The CTR1–6His protein was expressed in Escherichia coli, and inclusion bodies isolated according to the manufacturer (Novagen) and used to prepare polyclonal antisera by Cocalico Biologicals, Inc. (Reamstown, PA). The anti-CTR1 antibodies were affinity purified on Affi-Gel-15 columns (Bio-Rad) cross-linked with CTR1–6His that had been solubilized from inclusion bodies with 1.5% (w/v) Sarkosyl, 2% (w/v) Triton X-100. Antibodies were eluted with 100 mm glycine, pH 2.5, and neutralized with 1 m Tris, pH 8.0.  Specific Arabidopsis membranes were identified by use of antibodies against the ER-markers ETR1, ACA2, and BiP (11, 26–28), the PM-marker H+-ATPase (29), the mitochondrial inner membrane marker F1-ATPase (30), and the tonoplast-marker VM23 (31). An antibody against the cytosolic heat shock protein Hsc-70 (StressGen) was used as a marker for soluble proteins in Arabidopsis. GST fusion proteins were identified by use of a polyclonal anti-GST antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology).  Immunoblot analysis was performed as described (15). Protein concentration was determined by use of the BCA reagent (Pierce) according to the manufacturer after first adding 0.2 ml 0.4% (w/v) deoxycholate to solubilize membrane proteins. Bovine serum albumin was used as a standard for protein assays. Prior to SDS-PAGE (32), protein samples were mixed with SDS-PAGE loading buffer and incubated at 37 °C for 1 h or ramped from 37 °C to 65 °C over 40 min using a thermocyler, so as to prevent the aggregation of integral membrane proteins that can occur with boiling (25, 33). Following SDS-PAGE, proteins were electrotransferred to Immobilon nylon membrane (Millipore) for immunoblotting. Immunodecorated proteins were visualized by enhanced chemiluminescence detection according to the manufacturer (Pierce Chemical).  RNA Isolation and Northern Blotting—Northern blot analysis was performed with Arabidopsis mRNA isolated as previously described (24).  Preparation and Purification of TAP-tagged CTR1—A binary vector (pCAMBIA2380-myc-TAP) was prepared for expression of affinity-tagged proteins in Arabidopsis. Initially, the vector pCAMBIA1380 (GenBank™ accession no. AF234301) was modified by replacing the gene for hygromycin resistance with the NPT II gene for kanamycin resistance and the resultant vector designated pCAMBIA2380. The TAP tag was amplified from the vector pBS1479 (34) and cloned into the KpnI and HindIII restriction sites of the vector 6-CMYC (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center stock no. CD3–128) that contains a cassette encoding 6 copies of the c-Myc epitope tag. The region encoding the c-Myc and TAP tags was then amplified with primers that contained XhoI restriction sites and cloned into the XhoI site of pCAMBIA2380 to make pCAMBIA2380-myc-TAP. The region encoding CTR1 along with upstream promoter sequence was amplified from the Arabidopsis BAC clone F17C15 (GenBank™ accession no. AL162506) using 5′-primer GTCGACGGAGAAGTAGAAAAGAAAAC and 3′-primer GTCGACACAAATCCGAGCGGTTGG. The PCR product was cloned into the SalI site of pCAMBIA2380-myc-TAP to make pCAMBIA-CTR1-MT. Transformation and selection of Arabidopsis plants with pCAMBIA-CTR1-MT was performed as described (15).  For affinity purification of the CTR1-MT protein, microsomes were isolated from plants grown in liquid culture. Microsomes were brought to 1 mg/ml protein and incubated with 0.5% (w/v) lysophosphatidylcholine (1-palmitoyl-2-hydroxy-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine from Avanti Polar-Lipids, Inc.) for2hat4 °C, then centrifuged at 100,000 × g for 30 min. The supernatant was diluted to 0.25% LPC and incubated with Rabbit IgG-agarose (Sigma) for4hat4 °C. The beads were washed with resuspension buffer to remove unbound proteins, and the bound proteins analyzed by immunoblot.  Analysis of CTR1 Interaction with GST-ETR1 Fusion Proteins—For expression of GST and GST fusion proteins in yeast, the vector pEG(KT) was used (35). This vector contains the GST domain under control of a Gal-inducible promoter and allows for uracil selection in yeast. The GST-ETR1 fusion proteins have been previously described (14, 15). For expression of CTR1 in yeast, the vector pYcDE-2 was used (36). This vector has a constitutive ADH1 promoter and allows for Trp selection. A fragment of the CTR1 gene representing amino acids 1–698 was cloned into the EcoR I site of pYcDE-2. The pYcDE-2 construct and the pEG(KT) constructs were transformed together into yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) strain EGY188 (MATa ura3 his3 trp1 LexA-LEU2) (37). Standard media and procedures were used for growth (38). For induction of GST fusion proteins, 0.5% galactose was used. GST fusion proteins were isolated from mid-log phase cultures by affinity purification with glutathione-agarose beads as previously described (14). GST fusion proteins were visualized by immunoblotting using an anti-GST antibody. Co-purification of CTR1-(1–698) with the GST fusion proteins was assessed by using the anti-CTR1 antibody. 
