!~ABS~! Far-red light regulates many aspects of seedling development, such as inhibition of hypocotyl elongation and the promotion of greening (CITATION) , acting in part through phytochrome A (phyA). The RING motif protein COP1 is also important because cop1 mutants exhibit constitutive photomorphogenesis in darkness (CITATION) . COP1 is present in the nucleus in darkness but is gradually relocated to the cytoplasm upon illumination (CITATION) . Here we show that COP1 functions as an E3 ligase ubiquitinating both itself and the myb transcription activator LAF1, which is required for complete phyA responses (CITATION) . In transgenic plants, inducible COP1 overexpression leads to a decrease in LAF1 concentrations, but is blocked by the proteasome inhibitor MG132. The coiled-coil domain of SPA1, a negative regulator of phyA signalling (CITATION) , has no effect on COP1 auto-ubiquitination but facilitates LAF1 ubiquitination at low COP1 concentrations. These results indicate that, in darkness, COP1 functions as a repressor of photomorphogenesis by promoting the ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis of a subset of positive regulators, including LAF1. After the activation of phyA, SPA1 stimulates the E3 activity of residual nuclear COP1 to ubiquitinate LAF1, thereby desensitizing phyA signals.
!~RES~! In plants, the light signal is perceived by different photoreceptors that activate a network of signalling intermediates to control the expression of hundreds of genes (CITATION) . The phytochrome photoreceptor family regulates downstream responses by switching between biologically inactive and active forms in response to absorbing red or far-red light, respectively (CITATION) . Several Arabidopsis mutants deficient in intermediates of the phyA signalling pathway have been identified. Some of these show reduced responses, whereas others are hypersensitive (CITATION) . The COP/DET/FUS proteins have been proposed to act as negative regulators of photomorphogenic development because their loss-of-function mutants develop as light-grown plants in darkness (CITATION) . Among these repressors, the RING motif protein COP1 seems to be a key regulator that interacts with components of the phyA signalling pathway such as HY5 (ref. 12) and SPA1 (ref. 13). LAF 1 is a myb transcription activator that participates in the transmission of phyA signals to downstream responses; this activator is localized in nuclear bodies (CITATION) . Because COP1 is also found in nuclear bodies (CITATION) , we asked whether the two proteins are localized together. To this end, we transiently expressed LAF1 tagged with yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and COP1 tagged with cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) in onion epidermal cells. Figure 1a shows that the two proteins were indeed localized in the same nuclear bodies, although COP1 was also found in cytoplasmic regions not containing LAF1, which is strictly localized in the nucleus. [[FIGURE]] Similar experiments showed that SPA1 was distributed in the nucleus and the cytosol but it could be relocalized by COP1 to the same LAF1/COP1 nuclear bodies, which is consistent with an interaction between SPA1 and COP1 in vitro (CITATION) . The co-localization of LAF1 and COP1 indicates that the two proteins might interact. To study this, we performed a pull-down of products translated in vitro by using maltose-binding protein (MBP) and MBP–COP1. Control experiments showed that MBP alone did not interact with any of the products translated in vitro. As expected, COP1 interacted with CIP8 (ref. 15) but not luciferase (Fig. 1b) and, under the same conditions, LAF1 translated in vitro purified together with COP1 (Fig. 1b). The interaction between LAF1 and COP1 also occurred in vivo, as confirmed by co-purification experiments (Fig. 1c). Being a RING motif protein, COP1 has been proposed to act as an E3 ubiquitin protein ligase, with its interacting protein, HY5, as its putative substrate (CITATION) . Because no E3 activity has been directly associated with COP1, it has not been possible to verify whether the observed effect of COP1 on HY5 stability (CITATION) is direct or indirect. Indeed, recent work showed that HY5 can be ubiquitinated by CIP8, a cytoplasmic RING motif protein, instead of COP1 (ref. 17). Moreover, other than the putative substrate HY5, no substrate of COP1 has yet been identified. To test whether COP1 is indeed an E3 ligase, we produced the protein in Escherichia coli and assayed its E3 activity in vitro. Figure 2a shows that COP1 was able to catalyse self-ubiquitination in a reaction that required both E1 and E2 activities. The reaction was dependent on Zn2+ ions (Fig. 2b) and required an intact RING motif because Cys → Ser substitutions in residues 52 and 55 of COP1 abolished its E3 activity (Fig. 2c). Moreover, wild-type COP1 E3 activity was blocked by a 2–10-fold excess of the COP1 mutant (C52S; C55S), whereas a 10-fold excess of MBP alone had no inhibitory effect (Fig. 2d). These results indicate that COP1 E3 activity might require dimerization and that excess amounts of the mutant (C52S; C55S) can inhibit E3 activity by forming inactive dimers with wild-type COP1, thus acting in a dominant-negative manner. The coiled-coil region (amino acids 110–255) of COP1 has been shown to be involved in its dimerization (CITATION) . Our observation that COP1 dimerization activates its E3 activity confirms previous results with another RING protein (CITATION) . [[FIGURE]] The interaction between LAF1 and COP1 prompted us to investigate whether the former might be a substrate for the latter. Indeed, LAF1 was ubiquitinated by COP1 in a reaction that was also dependent on E1 and E2 activities (Fig. 3a). This reaction was specific, because no LAF1 ubiquitination was detected with SINAT5 (Fig. 3b), an Arabidopsis E3 ligase that modifies NAC1 (ref. 19). LAF1 ubiquitination was dependent on the RING motif but not the WD40 domain of COP1 (Fig. 3c). [[FIGURE]] Additional evidence of LAF1 ubiquitination by COP1 was obtained by comparing reaction products with glutathione S transferase (GST)-labelled ubiquitin and hexahistidine (His6)-labelled ubiquitin. Fig. 3d shows that the mobility difference of ubiquitinated LAF1 products is consistent with the difference in molecular mass between GST–ubiquitin and His6–ubiquitin. LAF1–COP1 interaction and the ubiquitination of LAF1 by COP1 predict that LAF1 concentrations might be reduced by COP1 overexpression in vivo. We therefore determined LAF1 concentrations in transgenic plants carrying a 35S–LAF1–HA3 transgene (where HA encodes haemagglutinin) and an oestradiol-inducible (CITATION) XVE–COP1–Myc6 transgene. In non-induced plants without COP1 overexpression, LAF1 concentrations can be increased about 3.5-fold by MG132, indicating possible proteasomal degradation (Fig. 3e). The induced expression of COP1 noticeably decreased LAF1 concentrations; however, these concentrations could be elevated to the same as those in non-induced plants treated with MG132. LAF1 transcript concentrations were comparable under these four conditions. Taken together, these results show that LAF1 stability in vivo can be regulated by COP1 through a proteasome-mediated process. Consistent with its self-ubiquitination activity (Fig. 2) was the observation that COP1 concentrations were similarly increased by MG132 (Fig. 3e), indicating possible proteasomal regulation as well. Of the various loci required for phyA signalling, only EID1 (ref. 21) and SPA1 (ref. 22) encode negative regulators. Because SPA1 interacts with COP1 through its coiled-coil domain (CITATION) , we speculated that this protein might inhibit COP1 auto-ubiquitination or facilitate LAF1 ubiquitination by COP1, or both. To examine these possibilities, we produced a GST fusion protein containing the coiled-coil domain of SPA1 (GST–SPA1cc). Figure 4a shows that this fusion protein had no significant effect on COP1 auto-ubiquitination over a 40-fold range of COP1 concentrations. By contrast, at 600 ng COP1, increasing amounts of GST–SPA1cc (0–1.2 µg) stimulated LAF1 ubiquitination, whereas GST alone had no noticeable effect (Fig. 4b). In this series of experiments, the stimulatory effect was saturated at 300 ng GST–SPA1cc. We next examined the effect of 300 ng GST–SPA1cc on LAF1 ubiquitination over a range of COP1 concentrations, using GST as a negative control. Whereas GST–SPA1cc had little effect on LAF1 ubiquitination when COP1 was present in large amounts (0.6–1.2 µg; Fig. 4c and data not shown), it had a stimulatory effect that became more pronounced as the amount of COP1 decreased below 600 ng (Fig. 4c and data not shown). Similar results were obtained using His6–SPA1cc (data not shown). These results show that GST–SPA1cc stimulates LAF1 ubiquitination by COP1 when the latter is present at low concentrations. [[FIGURE]] The in vitro and in vivo results described here provide a mechanistic explanation of data obtained in vivo with Arabidopsis mutants and transgenic plants implicated in phyA signalling (CITATION) . Previous work showed that cop1 mutants display constitutive photomorphogenesis in darkness, indicating that the COP1 protein might act as a repressor of light responses. Here we show that COP1 is an E3 ligase and that it can polyubiquitinate LAF1, a transcription activator, presumably tagging the latter for subsequent proteolysis. This observation is consistent with the notion that, in darkness, COP1 might repress light responses by targeting a subset of positive regulators such as LAF1 for destruction. On exposure to light, depletion of COP1 in the nucleus (CITATION) allows the positive regulators to accumulate and to promote downstream photomorphogenic responses. Our results with SPA1cc indicate that, after the activation of phyA, residual nuclear COP1 continues to have a role in regulating phyA responses, but now in concert with SPA1. SPA1 is a nuclear protein synthesized in response to far-red light (CITATION) . We show here that SPA1cc has no significant effect on COP1 auto-ubiquitination activity over a wide range of concentrations, but it stimulates LAF1 ubiquitination at low, but not high, concentrations of the COP1 E3 ligase. These results indicate that at low nuclear COP1 concentrations, which is true shortly after phyA activation, newly synthesized SPA1 might facilitate the ubiquitination of LAF1 by COP1, and probably other positive signalling components, to desensitize the light signal. In spa1 mutants, the absence of SPA1 is expected to impair COP1 E3 activity severely, resulting in higher concentrations of positive regulators for a given far-red light intensity, and hence the hypersensitive response (CITATION) . It is also possible that in plants grown under light–dark conditions SPA1 might synergize with COP1 in the dark period to deplete transcription activators, like LAF1, more rapidly to prepare plants for the light signals of the following day. RING motif E3 ligases are known to catalyse both auto-ubiquitination and substrate ubiquitination. How these two opposing reactions are regulated in the cell during signalling is unclear and relatively unexplored. Several regulators have been shown to aid the auto-ubiquitination of DIAP1, a Drosophila E3 ligase that inhibits apoptosis (CITATION) , but their effects on substrate ubiquitination are unknown. By contrast, SPA1 has little effect on COP1 auto-ubiquitination but stimulates its E3 activity towards substrates. The mechanism of this stimulation is not yet clear but it does not involve the interaction of SPA1 with the coiled-coil domain of COP1 monomer, because this would dissociate COP1 dimers and inhibit E3 activity. One possibility is that SPA1 enhances the binding of LAF1 to COP1 at low concentrations of the latter. Subcellular localization experiments demonstrated that in darkness, LAF1 and COP1 are found in nuclear bodies (CITATION) which also contained SPA1. On the basis of the ability of COP1 to ubiquitinate LAF1, these nuclear bodies might be sites of protein degradation similar to the clastosomes of animal cells (CITATION) . The characterization of additional components of plant clastosomes and the identification of other substrates and regulators of COP1 will lead to a better understanding of the role of regulated proteolysis in phyA signalling.
!~MM~! Sequences encoding full-length COP1 and deletion mutants (WD40, amino acids 1–255; RING, amino acids 110–675; RING/coiled-coil, amino acids 216–675) were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and cloned into pMal-c2 (New England Biolabs) to generate complementary DNA molecules encoding fusions with MBP. Mutations in the RING motif (C52S, C55S) were generated with the Quick Change site-directed mutagenesis kit (Promega). Sequences for a carboxy-terminal Myc tag were appended to the full-length LAF1 cDNA by PCR and cloned into pET-28a (+) (Novagen) to generate the coding sequence for His6–LAF1–Myc. The sequence encoding the coiled-coil domain of SPA1 (SPA1cc; amino acids 521–696) was amplified by PCR and cloned into pGEX4T-1 (Pharmacia). All recombinant proteins were expressed in E. coli strain BL21. For purification of MBP–COP1, bacteria were lysed in 50 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.5, 200 mM NaCl, 1% Triton X-100, 5 mM dithiothreitol (DTT), 2 mM phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride (PMSF) and a proteinase inhibitor cocktail (Promega) and purified on amylose resins (New England Biolabs). For His6–LAF1–Myc purification, bacteria were lysed in 50 mM NaH2PO4 pH 8.0, 300 mM NaCl, 1% Triton X-100, 1 mM imidazole, 5 mM DTT, 2 mM PMSF and a proteinase inhibitor cocktail, and purified on Ni2+-nitrilotriacetate (Ni2+-NTA) resins (Qiagen). For GST–SPA1cc purification, bacteria were lysed in PBS pH 7.5 containing 1% Triton X-100, 2 mM PMSF and a proteinase inhibitor cocktail, and purified on glutathione resins (Pharmacia). Protein concentrations were determined by the Bradford assay (Bio-Rad). The CFP and YFP coding sequences were fused in-frame to the 5′ end of COP1 cDNA and to the 3′ end of SPA1 cDNA, respectively, and cDNA sequences for LAF1–YFP and LAF1–CFP were constructed similarly. All fusion genes or genes for YFP and CFP were expressed from a 35S promoter. Onion epidermal cells were bombarded with different combinations of plasmids with a helium biolistic gun (CITATION) and analysed by confocal microscopy after incubation in the dark for 12 h. T7-promoter-driven in vitro transcription/translation templates were derived from full-length LAF1 and CIP8 coding sequences (CITATION) cloned into pRSETA (Invitrogen). [35S]methionine-labelled luciferase, LAF1 and CIP8 were generated by transcription and translation in vitro with wheatgerm extracts by using a T7/T3 coupled TnT kit (Promega). For binding in vitro, 10 µl of the translation mixture was added to 500 µl binding buffer (50 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 1 mM EDTA, 150 mM NaCl, 10% glycerol, 0.1% Tween 20, 0.5 mM DTT) and the mixture was incubated at 25 °C for 1 h. The reaction mixture was incubated with amylose resin beads, which were then washed five times with washing buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.2% Nonidet P40). In vitro translation products and COP1-interacting proteins were analysed by SDS–polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis (SDS–PAGE). For binding in vivo, LAF1–Flag3 and His6–LAF1–Flag3 cDNAs were cloned into pBI121 (Clontech) and COP1-Myc6 cDNA was cloned into pBA002 (ref. 29). Constructs were transformed into Arabidopsis thaliana (Landsberg erecta) by vacuum infiltration (CITATION) . Five-day-old light-grown plants (l6 h light/8 h dark) on MS medium were ground in liquid nitrogen and resuspended in an extraction buffer (50 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5% Triton X-100, 1 mM DTT) containing 1 × complete protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche) and 1 mM imidazole (Sigma). After centrifugation, supernatants were purified on Ni2+-NTA columns and eluted proteins were detected by western blotting with anti-Myc (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) or anti-Flag (Sigma) antibodies. 32P-labelled ubiquitin was prepared with recombinant GST–ubiquitin (CITATION) . Reaction mixtures (30 µl) contained 500 ng COP1 (E3), 20 ng each of rabbit E1 and UbcH5B (both from Affiniti), and either 2 × 104 c.p.m. of 32P-labelled ubiquitin or 10 µg unlabelled His6–ubiquitin (Sigma) or GST–ubiquitin (Boston Biochemical) in a buffer containing 50 mM Tris pH 7.4, 2 mM ATP, 5 mM MgCl2 and 2 mM DTT. After incubation at 30 °C for 2 h, reaction mixtures were heated to 95 °C in SDS–PAGE sample buffer containing 2-mercaptoethanol, before electrophoresis on 8% polyacrylamide SDS gels. For cation chelation, MBP–COP1 was immobilized on amylose resin and incubated overnight with 2 mM N,N,N′,N′-tetrakis(2-pyridylmethyl)-ethylenediamine (TPEN; Biotium) at 4 °C. After extensive washing, the immobilized MBP–COP1 was treated with 20 µM ZnCl2 for 45 min at 22 °C before the ubiquitination assay. For LAF1 ubiquitination, each assay contained 10 ng purified His6–LAF1–Myc. Ubiquitinated LAF1was detected by western blotting with anti-Myc antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology). Four-day-old light-grown (16 h light/8 h dark) plants carrying 35S–LAF1–HA3 and XVE–COP1–Myc6 transgenes on MS medium were treated in the light with or without β-oestradiol for 15 h and then with or without 50 µM MG132 (Calbiochem) for 15 h. Samples were ground in liquid nitrogen and equivalent amounts were analysed by western blotting with anti-HA or anti-Myc antibodies. Plant samples were also processed for northern blotting.
