!~ABS~! The UNUSUAL FLORAL ORGANS (UFO) gene is required for multiple processes in the developing Arabidopsis flower, including the proper patterning and identity of both petals and stamens. The gene encodes an F-box-containing protein, UFO, which interacts physically and genetically with the Skp1 homolog, ASK1. In this report, we describe four ufo alleles characterized by the absence of petals, which uncover another role for UFO in promoting second whorl development. This UFO-dependent pathway is required regardless of the second whorl organ to be formed, arguing that it affects a basic process acting in parallel with those establishing organ identity. However, the pathway is dispensable in the absence of AGAMOUS (AG), a known inhibitor of petal development. In situ hybridization results argue that AG is not transcribed in the petal region, suggesting that it acts non-cell-autonomously to inhibit second whorl development in ufo mutants. These results are combined into a genetic model explaining early second whorl initiation/proliferation, in which UFO functions to inhibit an AG-dependent activity.
!~RES~! Isolation of ufo Alleles Specifically Affecting Early Petal Development. During two independent screens for mutants affecting floral organ number, we identified four lines, dubbed petalless, with severe defects in petal formation (FIG-REF). Subsequent analysis indicated that the phenotype segregated as a single recessive Mendelian trait, and that all lines were allelic. Crosses between these mutants and the strong ufo-2 allele (CITATION) resulted in flowers with the petalless phenotype; thus, these four mutants contain partial loss-of-function mutations in UFO. [[FIGURE]] Two alleles, ufo-11 and ufo-12, are from a T-DNA mutagenized collection (CITATION). Sequencing of the UFO ORF from these lines detected no mutations. Instead, both T-DNA insertion sites localize to the 5′ distal end of the UFO promoter (FIG-REF), suggesting that transcriptional regulation of the gene is compromised. The ufo-12 lesion contains multiple T-DNAs inserted 764 bp downstream of the 5′ EcoRI site with a concomitant loss of 12 bp of wild-type sequence. The ufo-11 insertion site lies just 5′ to an EcoRI site, although rearrangement in this area has confounded efforts to precisely locate the lesion. This region of the UFO promoter contains five CArG box-like sequences that are recognition elements for MADS box DNA-binding proteins (FIG-REF), implying that one or more of these factors may activate w2 expression of UFO. [[FIGURE]] ufo-13 and ufo-14 alleles were isolated from EMS mutagenized plants, and sequence analysis of these alleles revealed that each contains a single point mutation in the UFO ORF (FIG-REF). ufo-13 contains a nonsense mutation leading to a stop codon at position 390, whereas a missense mutation in ufo-14 results in a serine-to-alanine substitution at residue 298. Phenotypic quantification of these lines (Table 1, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site) indicates that mutants produce less than one petal per flower on average, although most basal flowers can have more. Basal flowers also can have petal/stamen mosaic organs in either w2 or w3, although these generally contain only a small amount of transformed tissue. Sepal and carpel whorls develop normally, and flowers are fully fertile. To investigate at what stage petal primordia arrest in the ufo mutants, ufo-11 flowers were analyzed by scanning electron microscopy during various stages of development. As expected, the gross overall morphology of ufo-11 apices closely resembled that of wild type (compare FIG-REF with ref. CITATION). In wild-type flowers, petal primordia are first visible as bumps on the floral meristem during stage 5 and then undergo a lag phase before beginning rapid expansion (CITATION). In contrast, no evidence of petal primordia is visible in ufo-11 flowers (FIG-REF) except in rare cases (two petals in 45 ufo-11 flowers) where an organ will develop fully (FIG-REF). Note that when petals do form, they do so in the proper temporal and spatial manner (FIG-REF). Thus, affected petal primordia arrest at an early stage in the mutants before the primordia are clearly visible. The proper positioning of the stamens and the rare petals that form argue that the primordia patterning function of UFO is intact in these mutants. That these organs generally have the correct identity further suggests that the UFO role in activating AP3/PI transcription also is retained. Indeed, AP3 transcript expression in developing ufo-12 flowers appears normal (Fig. 8, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). Given that petal primordia are absent in these ufo alleles and that wild-type petal primordia are comprised of few cells, these data imply that AP3 expression mainly identifies w3 stamen primordia cells in wild-type tissues at these early stages. Nonetheless, these results indicate that the weak ufo mutations likely affect an additional UFO activity required for controlling petal primordia initiation and/or proliferation. ufo-11 and -12 Mutations Disrupt Petal Primordia Expression. Localization of ufo-11 and -12 T-DNA insertions to the promoter suggests the UFO expression pattern might be altered. As reported (CITATION, CITATION), UFO transcripts are present in the SAM of wild-type plants but absent in stage 1 floral meristems. Transcripts are readily detected in the central portion of the developing flower by stage 2 (FIG-REF). During stage 3, they are excluded from the presumptive fourth whorl but remain expressed in regions that will give rise to second and third whorl organs (FIG-REF). Finally, by stage 5, expression is limited to the region that will give rise to the petals (FIG-REF), where it is maintained throughout floral organ development. [[FIGURE]] In ufo-12 flowers, the proper expression pattern is maintained through stage 3, although RNA levels appear to be reduced (FIG-REF). However, transcripts were absent in the subsequent stages when they are normally found in developing w2 cells (compare FIG-REF). Identical results were obtained with ufo-11 flowers (data not shown). The specific loss of UFO transcripts in the petal region argues that both T-DNA insertions have disrupted an enhancer element essential for w2 expression. This result argues that the w2-specific UFO expression commencing during stage 4/5 is necessary for petal initiation/proliferation. ufo-13 and ufo-14 Mutations Do Not Affect Interaction with ASK1. Genetic experiments argue that UFO interaction with the Arabidopsis SKP1 homolog, ASK1, is important for its function (CITATION, CITATION). To determine the region(s) of UFO necessary for binding ASK1, a deletion series was constructed in the yeast expression vector, pAS1 (CITATION), creating fusions with the Gal4 DNA-binding domain. These hybrids were then analyzed for the ability to interact with ASK1 (CITATION) via the two-hybrid assay. Full length UFO/ASK1 interaction results in a large increase in β-galactosidase activity, suggesting a strong interaction between the two proteins (FIG-REF). However, only the N-terminal 85-aa fragment, which terminates at the end of the F-box, interacts with ASK1 with similar apparent affinity as full length UFO. All other engineered deletions show dramatically reduced affinity for ASK1 despite containing an intact F-box. These results suggest that, whereas the F-box is apparently sufficient for high-affinity interaction with ASK1, the overall structure of the protein may be important for allowing ASK1 access to the motif. [[FIGURE]] To ascertain how various ufo mutations affect UFO interaction with ASK1, DNA-binding domain fusions were made with both strong and weak mutants and the association with ASK1 tested (FIG-REF). The strong ufo-5 allele contains a nonsense mutation at codon 326 (CITATION) and was chosen because it results in the smallest deletion of the strong mutants characterized to date. This mutant UFO protein is unable to associate with ASK1 in this assay, consistent with the hypothesis that interaction with ASK1 is essential for UFO function. Next, three weak mutants, ufo-6, -13, and -14, were tested. Interestingly, proteins encoded by both ufo-13 and -14 still interact with ASK1, and these associations lead to comparable increases in β-galactosidase activity as wild type. Although the ufo-6- encoded polypeptide still binds to ASK1, its affinity is dramatically compromised, potentially explaining its slightly more severe phenotype (CITATION). Intriguingly, the ufo-6 mutation maps directly adjacent to ufo-14, changing the proline at position 299 to leucine (CITATION). Thus, although ASK1-UFO association may be necessary, it is not sufficient for full UFO function. Because ufo-13 and ufo-14 retain primordia patterning and B class gene activation functions, the results imply that the C-terminal region (amino acids 298–442) is required specifically for w2 initiation/proliferation. Genetic Interactions with Key Floral Development Genes. To identify additional genetic components in this UFO-dependent pathway, double mutants were generated carrying either ufo-11 or ufo-12 in combination with mutations in other known floral genes. In all cases, either ufo allele resulted in an indistinguishable double mutant phenotype. Four combinations led to informative results. Strong mutations in LFY, such as lfy-1, result in plants with increased numbers of secondary inflorescences and severe floral defects (CITATION–CITATION). lfy-1 flowers are composed of two outer whorls of sepal-like structures and an aberrantly formed central gynoecium. Organs formed in outer whorls are arranged in a more spiral phyllotaxis than wild type, consistent with their arising from a shoot-like floral meristem. lfy-1 ufo-11 flowers are phenotypically identical to lfy-1 (FIG-REF), formally placing LFY upstream of UFO in this pathway, consistent with earlier observations that LFY activity is generally required for UFO function (CITATION–CITATION). This result also indicates that the “w2” structures in lfy-1 are not under identical regulatory mechanisms as similarly positioned organs arising from wild-type floral meristems. [[FIGURE]] Weak mutations in the A class gene, AP2, lead to floral defects in both outer two whorls with leaf-like organs replacing sepals and stamenoid petals forming in w2 (CITATION) (FIG-REF). ap2-1 ufo-11 plants are missing w2 stamenoid petals found in ap2-1 (FIG-REF). Either ap2-1 and ufo have an additive affect, or the ap2 w2 phenotype is enhanced by the weak ufo alleles, because strong ap2 mutants also lack w2 organs (CITATION). Strong mutations in the B class gene, PI, cause homeotic transformations in w2 and w3, with sepals replacing petals and carpels or filaments replacing stamens, respectively (CITATION, CITATION) (FIG-REF). In addition, w3 organs commonly fuse with w4 carpels. In contrast to lfy-1 ufo-11, pi-1 ufo-11 flowers showed an additive phenotype in that they lacked w2 organs, but w3 filaments were maintained and often were fused to the gynoecium (FIG-REF). Thus, in the presence of LFY activity, the w2 function of UFO is required regardless of the organ to be formed and therefore is affecting a process independent of organ identity. The strong ag mutation, ag-1, leads to flowers in which stamens are converted to petals, and w4 is replaced by another flower reiterating the same pattern of whorled organs (ref. CITATION; FIG-REF). ag-1 ufo-11 flowers are phenotypically indistinguishable from the ag-1 single mutant with w2 petals restored (FIG-REF), indicating that ag is epistatic to ufo. To confirm this epistasis, ufo-11 was crossed to the weak ag allele, ag-5 (CITATION). ag-5 flowers are characterized by petaloid stamens in w3 and the replacement of w4 carpels with carpelloid sepals surrounding a new flower (FIG-REF). The w4 organs are often fused. Consistent with the ag-1 ufo-11 result, ag-5 ufo-11 flowers have the same phenotype as the ag-5 single mutant (FIG-REF). These results provide two important insights into the w2 function of UFO. First, the existence of petals in both ag ufo double mutants further confirms that these “petalless” ufo alleles are not affecting petal formation per se. Second, the reappearance of petals in the double mutants indicates AG is essential for the loss of petals in the ufo mutants. The epistasis of ag over ufo is consistent with previous results indicating that AG can inhibit petal development (CITATION, CITATION) and argues that UFO normally acts to antagonize AG activity in w2. AG Expression in ufo-12 Flowers. The requirement of AG to block petal formation in ufo plants suggests that AG may be ectopically expressed in mutant w2 cells. To address this issue, AG expression in ufo-12 flowers was monitored by in situ hybridization using a probe lacking the MADS box encoding sequences and compared with wild type (FIG-REF). In wild-type flowers, AG transcripts are present in the region interior to the sepal primordia starting late in stage 2 and become clearly confined to the inner two whorls starting from approximately stage 6 (CITATION). As petal initiation occurs during stage 5 (CITATION), it was anticipated that ectopic AG expression might be detected in ufo w2 cells at that time. However, serial sections of either wild-type or ufo-12 flowers showed no clear evidence of AG transcripts in presumptive w2 cells at any point in development, including stage-5 flowers (FIG-REF). By stage 6, expression was clearly confined to the developing w3 and w4 organs (data not shown). These data argue that AG acts non-cell-autonomously to inhibit petal development in ufo mutants. Confirmation awaits tools to precisely identify and track both AG mRNA and/or protein in the two-celled petal anlagen (CITATION). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plant Material. Plants were grown in Sunshine Mix (Fisons Horticultural, Bellevue, WA) soil under long day conditions (18 h light) in chambers maintained at 22°C. ufo-11 and ufo-12 were isolated from T-DNA mutagenized seeds of the Wassilewskija (WsO) ecotype (CITATION). ufo-13 and ufo-14 were identified from an ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS)-treated population of Columbia seeds (the generous gift of S. Steinberg and L. Feldman, University of California, Berkeley). All other mutants were obtained from the laboratory of Elliot Meyerowitz (California Institute of Technology, Pasadena). Identification of the ufo Lesions.ufo11 and ufo-12 mutations were first mapped to the distal end of the UFO promoter by Southern blot analysis by using probes to different regions of UFO and the T-DNA borders. Precise endpoints of the ufo-12 lesion were determined by PCR amplification (see Supporting Methods, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site, www.pnas.org). ORFs from each ufo allele were amplified by PCR and subcloned. These inserts were sequenced completely. ufo-11 and ufo-12 were found to contain no mutations, whereas ufo-13 and ufo-14 were found to each contain a single base-pair substitution. Scanning Electron Microscopy. Fixation, drying, and viewing were done as described (CITATION). In Situ Hybridization.In situ hybridization was performed by using digoxigenin (DIG)-labeled RNA probes and visualized with an anti-DIG antibody conjugated to alkaline phosphatase according to Drews (CITATION) and the manufacturer (Boehringer Mannheim). Probes were generated by in vitro transcription by using T7 RNA polymerase and DIG-labeled ribonucleotides. For detection of UFO transcripts, the plasmid pG11/UfoFL (see Supporting Methods) was linearized with NcoI before in vitro transcription. AP3 antisense probes were generated from pIa (CITATION) digested with BglII. AG transcripts were detected with probes from CIT565 (CITATION) cleaved with HindIII. Generation and Identification of Double Mutants. To obtain double mutants, ufo plants were crossed with either homozygous (ap2–1, pi-1) or heterozygous lines (lfy-1, ag-1), and F2 families with both single mutant phenotypes identified. From these families, seeds from individual petalless plants and other mutants (when possible) were sown and the F3 generation analyzed for any new phenotypes. No background effects on the petalless phenotype were observed Two-Hybrid Analysis. Y153 (CITATION) was the recipient for all transformations. For β-galactosidase activity, cells were prepared and assayed as described (CITATION) by using chlorophenol-red-β-d-galactopyranoside (Boehringer Mannheim) as substrate. Gal4-DNA-binding domain fusions with UFO were constructed as described in Supporting Methods.
