!~ABS~! The AXR6 gene is required for auxin signaling in the Arabidopsis embryo and during postembryonic development. One of the effects of auxin is to stimulate degradation of the Aux/IAA auxin response proteins through the action of the ubiquitin protein ligase SCFTIR1. Here we show that AXR6 encodes the SCF subunit CUL1. The axr6 mutations affect the ability of mutant CUL1 to assemble into stable SCF complexes resulting in reduced degradation of the SCFTIR1 substrate AXR2/IAA7. In addition, we show that CUL1 is required for lateral organ initiation in the shoot apical meristem and the inflorescence meristem. These results indicate that the embryonic axr6 phenotype is related to a defect in SCF function and accumulation of Aux/IAA proteins such as BDL/IAA12. In addition, we show that CUL1 has a role in auxin response throughout the life cycle of the plant.
!~RES~! In a previous report, we showed that the AXR6 gene is required for auxin response throughout plant growth and development (CITATION). To further explore the function of AXR6 we isolated the gene using a map‐based approach. Earlier mapping studies had shown that AXR6 is located on chromosome 4 near PRL. Additional recombinants were generated by crossing axr6‐2 (Col‐0) to ga1 and prl (Ler) (FIG-REF). The AXR6 gene was localized to an ∼80 kilobase (kb) interval on chromosome 4. Among the genes in this region is CUL1. Since SCFTIR1 is required for auxin response, we sequenced CUL1 from axr6‐1 and axr6‐2 mutants. Both alleles carry a base substitution at the same position in the coding region of CUL1. The mutations result in replacement of phenylalanine 111 with valine (axr6‐1) or isoleucine (axr6‐2) (FIG-REF). Based on the crystal structure of human SCFSKP2, Phe111 is within a region of CUL1 that interacts with the SKP1–FBP module (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] CITATION used two CUL1 T‐DNA insertion mutants (cul1‐1 and cul1‐2) to show that loss of CUL1 results in lethality at the zygote stage of embryogenesis. We isolated two new T‐DNA insertion lines from the Wisconsin collection. The new alleles, called cul1‐3 and cul1‐4, each have a T‐DNA insert in exon 15 of the CUL1 gene (FIG-REF). Like cul1‐1 and cul1‐2, the new alleles are recessive embryo lethal mutations (data not shown). Heterozygous plants are normal in appearance but display a mild auxin‐resistant phenotype (FIG-REF). This defect is associated with reduced levels of CUL1 (FIG-REF). Additional cross‐reacting proteins were not observed in cul1‐3 or cul1‐4 plants indicating that auxin resistance was not related to accumulation of a truncated version of CUL1 (data not shown). This result indicates that auxin response is unusually sensitive to CUL1 levels. However, it is also important to note that cul1‐3/+ and cul1‐4/+ are much less auxin resistant than axr6/+ plants (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the axr6 mutations are in the CUL1 gene, heterozygous axr6‐1 and axr6‐2 plants were crossed to heterozygous cul1‐4 plants. In each case ∼25% of the progeny seed were not viable, showing that axr6 does not complement the embryo‐lethal phenotype of cul1‐4 (Table I). Of the viable seedlings, the expected 33% displayed the axr6/+ auxin resistant phenotype (data not shown). [[TABLE]] Heterozygous axr6‐1/+ plants are deficient in auxin induction of the BA3–GUS reporter gene indicating that AXR6/CUL1 is required for this auxin response (CITATION). We also examined transcript levels of the IAA5 and IAA7 primary auxin response genes. We found that accumulation of both in response to auxin is reduced in the mutants compared with wild type (FIG-REF). In the case of IAA7, RNA levels were also reduced in the absence of exogenous auxin. These results confirm that AXR6/CUL1 is required for auxin regulation of gene expression. We also show that the CUL1 RNA level does not change in response to auxin and is not affected in the axr6 mutants (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Since SCF‐dependent degradation of Aux/IAA proteins is required for auxin response in seedlings, we speculated that this process might be impaired in the axr6 mutants (CITATION). To test this possibility, the half‐life of IAA7 was determined in wild‐type and heterozygous axr6 seedlings. The results show that IAA7 is more stable in seedlings heterozygous for either axr6‐1or axr6‐2 compared with wild‐type seedlings (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). This difference is statistically significant (P <0.05 for each mutant compared with wild type; Student's t‐test). To explore the effects of the axr6 mutations on CUL1 function, we examined CUL1 in mutant plants by immunoblotting. Each mutation causes an increase in CUL1 protein levels (FIG-REF). Since CUL1 RNA level is not affected by the mutations (FIG-REF), this difference must reflect a post‐transcriptional change. A fraction of the CUL1 protein is modified by the ubiquitin‐related protein RUB1 (CITATION). Despite the increase in total CUL1 levels in the axr6 mutants, the amount of RUB‐modified CUL1 is similar to wild type. The relative level of RUB‐CUL1 may be decreased because the mutant proteins are poor substrates for RUB modification. To test this possibility a rabbit reticulocyte lysate was used to perform in vitro RUB modification of mutant and wild‐type CUL1. The results in FIG-REF show that the mutant proteins are effective substrates for RUB modification in this system. However, it is still possible that in the context of the plant cell, RUB modification of CUL1 is impaired. Alternatively, the mutant proteins may be subject to increased RUB de‐conjugation, perhaps catalyzed by the COP9 signalosome (CSN) (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Genetic studies indicate that decreased RUB‐CUL1 levels result in reduced SCF function (CITATION). Thus the axr6 phenotype may be caused by a decrease in the relative levels of RUB‐CUL1. To test this model, we used a line that carries a 35S::RBX1 transgene. Over‐expression of RBX1 results in increased levels of RUB‐CUL1 (CITATION). Surprisingly, the effects of this change are similar to those of decreased RUB‐CUL1, including stabilization of Aux/IAA proteins. To examine the effects of increased RBX1 levels in an axr6 background, we crossed axr6‐2 to the 35S:RBX1 line (CITATION). F2 plants that were homozygous for the axr6‐2 mutation and carrying the 35S:RBX1 transgene were recovered and analyzed by western blot (FIG-REF). These plants had increased levels of RUB‐modified CUL1. However, no effect on the morphology of homozygous axr6‐2 seedlings was observed, suggesting that decreased RUB‐CUL1 levels do not cause this phenotype (data not shown). Based on the structure of mammalian SCFSKP2, phenyl alanine 111 of CUL1 lies adjacent to residues that contribute directly to SKP1‐FBP binding (CITATION). To determine if the mutations affect the interaction between CUL1 and ASK1, we tested for co‐immunoprecipitation of the two proteins (FIG-REF). As expected, more CUL1 was recovered from mutant extracts than wild‐type extracts. However, we observed less ASK1 in the CUL1 immunoprecipitate compared with wild type despite the presence of similar levels of ASK1 in the extract (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). We conclude that the mutations affect the ability of CUL1 to form a stable complex with ASK1. RBX1 binds cullin near its C‐terminus (CITATION; CITATION). We used an RBX1 antibody to examine RBX1 levels in plant extracts and CUL1 immunoprecipitates. Surprisingly, RBX1 levels are higher in axr6 seedlings than in wild type (FIG-REF). Consistent with this difference, and the higher level of CUL1 in these extracts, we found increased levels of RBX1 in the CUL1 immunoprecipitate from mutant plants. Thus the mutations do not affect the interaction between CUL1 and RBX1. However, RBX1 appears to be more stable in mutant plants. The IAA7 protein is a substrate for SCFTIR1 and interacts with the complex in plant extracts prepared from seedlings. As a further test of the effects of the axr6 mutations on CUL1 function, we performed a GST–IAA7 pulldown experiment from wild‐type and axr6 extracts. FIG-REF shows that less CUL1 is pulled down from axr6 extracts than from wild‐type extracts, despite an increase in CUL1 levels. Since IAA7 interacts with CUL1 indirectly through the ASK‐TIR1 module, these results indicate that less CUL1 is assembled into SCFTIR1 complexes in axr6 plants. To learn more about the function of CUL1 throughout plant development, we attempted to overexpress the protein in Col‐0 plants. Two 35S::CUL1 constructs were used containing either the wild‐type cDNA or a mutant form in which lysine 682, the site of RUB attachment, is changed to methionine. Over 100 transformants were generated with each construct. No lines with increased expression of either gene were recovered suggesting that CUL1 overexpression is severely detrimental to the plant. However, 25–30% of the lines exhibited defects in development (Table II). FIG-REF illustrates the range of phenotypes observed in T1 plants. Most seedlings exhibited a severe phenotype similar to seedlings 3 through 5 in FIG-REF. The severity of the phenotype correlated with the level of CUL1 protein, suggesting that the phenotype is caused by co‐suppression of CUL1 expression (FIG-REF). A variety of defects were observed. The hypocotyls of affected T1 seedlings were two to three times longer than Col‐0 seedlings (FIG-REF), but had the same number of cells (data not shown), indicating an increase in cell size. Root growth was reduced and no lateral roots were observed in these seedlings (FIG-REF). Subsequent growth was slow and most seedlings died before they developed leaves. The occasional survivor produced a compact inflorescence (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). These plants produced seed but only a small fraction of the T2 population (typically <2%) displayed the severe co‐suppressor phenotype. These lines were not analyzed further. [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] In addition to the severely affected T1 plants, ∼2% of the transformed lines displayed a less severe but completely heritable phenotype (Table II). Each of the lines had a similar phenotype regardless of the transgene. Leaf initiation was slower and irregular compared with Col‐0 plants (FIG-REF). After producing a few leaves, the shoot apical meristem (SAM) ceased organogenesis and formed a short pin‐shaped structure similar to the pin meristem observed in the mp, pinformed1 (pin1) and pinoid (pid) mutants (FIG-REF) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In most seedlings, the SAM did not develop further. To determine if these defects were associated with changes in meristem structure we prepared paraffin sections from 9‐day‐old Col‐0 and 35S:CUL1K682M seedlings and immunolocalized CUL1 (FIG-REF). The SAM of 35S:CUL1K682M seedlings was enlarged compared with Col‐0. As expected, the levels of CUL1 were reduced in the transgenic lines compared with Col‐0 (FIG-REF). This was confirmed by western blotting (FIG-REF). After SAM arrest, the axillary buds developed, resulting in the formation of a ‘normal looking’ rosette. When these plants flowered, many of the inflorescences also formed a pin‐like structure (FIG-REF). These results show that CUL1 is required for normal organ initiation from the SAM and inflorescence meristem [[FIGURE]] Modification of CUL1 by the ubiquitin‐related protein RUB is important for auxin response (CITATION). To determine if this is the case during organ initiation, we crossed the 35S:CUL1K682M line to the axr1‐13 mutant, known to be deficient in RUB‐CUL1 conjugation (CITATION). All of the F1 plants displayed the pin phenotype. Strikingly, F2 seedlings that were homozygous for axr1‐13 and either hetero‐ or homozygous for 35S:CUL1 developed a pin‐shaped meristem immediately after germination and did not develop further (FIG-REF). Direct transformation of axr1‐3 with 35S:CUL1 also produced dramatically affected seedlings. In this case, ∼10% of the transformants resemble homozygous axr6 or mp plants with severe defects in basal structures (FIG-REF). These results indicate that RUB modification of CUL1 is essential for organ initiation. A reduction in auxin response is a striking feature of the axr1 phenotype. However, the RUB conjugation pathway is probably required for normal function of many different SCFs. To determine if the defects in organ initiation observed in the 35S:CUL1 lines are related to auxin response and SCFTIR1 in particular, we introduced the 35S:CUL1 transgenes into tir1 plants. The frequency of transformants with a pin inflorescence in the tir1 background was ∼5‐fold higher than in wild type (Table II). Since TIR1 is required for the auxin‐dependent degradation of the Aux/IAA proteins, the defect in organ initiation is probably related to stabilization of these proteins. The failure to initiate lateral organs in pin1 is related to a defect in auxin transport. Auxin application to the flank of the pin1 meristem results in normal organ initiation suggesting that localized auxin accumulation is required for organ initiation (CITATION). To see if CUL1 deficient plants respond to auxin similarly, we applied IAA to the meristems of 35S::CUL1 plants. A total of 59 SAMs were examined. Of 32 pin SAMS that were not treated, nine recovered and formed new leaves. The other 23 SAMs terminated without further organogenesis. IAA was applied to the flanks of 27 defective SAMs. Twenty terminated without formation of additional leaves (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Seven SAMs recovered, but of these only two initiated an organ at the site of IAA application. We conclude from these results that pin SAMs on CUL1‐deficient plants are insensitive to auxin. Similarly, application of IAA to the flanks of pin inflorescence meristems on 35S::CUL1 plants did not induce organ formation (n = 25) (FIG-REF). Occasionally a meristem resumed flower formation after prolonged growth (FIG-REF). These results indicate that the pin phenotype is related to a defect in auxin response rather than transport. This is consistent with a model in which accumulation of Aux/IAA proteins prevents organ formation in 35S::CUL1 lines. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown in soil and in sterile culture at 20–23°C with continuous light. For culture experiments, seeds were surface sterilized for 10 min in 30% (v/v) bleach, 0.01% Triton X‐100, washed three times with sterile water and spread on plates using 0.1% agar. Auxin resistance was scored on day 5 of growth on minimal medium containing different concentrations of 2,4‐dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Analyses of segregating populations and identification of auxin resistant plants were done as described in CITATION. CUL1 overexpression constructs were generated by cloning CUL1 cDNA or mutated CUL1 cDNA carrying a point mutation in the RUB modification site (del Pozo et al., 1999) behind a 35S CaMV promoter into the binary vector pROKII using SacI/KpnI sites. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were generated using a floral dip protocol according to CITATION. Heterozygous axr6‐2 (Columbia) plants were crossed into Landsberg erecta mutants, ga1 and prl. Selection, analysis and DNA isolation from F3 families was performed as described in CITATION. Col‐0, axr6‐1 and axr6‐2 seedlings were pre‐selected for 5 days on minimal medium containing 40 nM 2,4‐D. Auxin‐resistant seedlings were then transferred to medium without 2,4‐D and grown for 2 additional days. For 2,4‐D induction, plants were transferred to liquid minimal medium containing 50 μM 2.4‐D for 1 h. RNA extraction, gel electrophoresis and blotting were done using standard techniques. CUL1 cDNA was cloned into the SmaI site of pBluescript (±) (Stratagene) and used for introduction of axr6‐1 and axr6‐2 point mutations by a Stratagene mutagenesis kit with complementary primer pairs (axr6‐1mut, 5′‐ GGTCAGATGGCTATCCCGCGTCTTCTACTA CCTTGACCG; axr6‐1complement, 5′‐CGGTCAAGGTAGTAGAAGA CGCGGGATAGCCATCTGACC; axr6‐2mut, 5′‐GGTCAGATGGCTA TCCCGCATCTTCTACTACCTTGACCG; axr6‐2complement, 5′‐CGG TCAAGGTAGTAGAAGATGCGGGATAGCCATCTGACC). Coupled transcription/translation reactions of CUL1 and mutant cDNAs (1 mg each) were performed in the TNT‐T7 coupled system (Promega, Madison, WI) using [35S]trans‐labeled methionine (ICN). After a 90 min reaction time, GST–RUB1, 3 mM ATP, 0.1 mM DTT, 5 mM MgCl2 and 10 U/ml inorganic pyrophosphatase were added to the reaction and the mixtures were incubated at 25°C for 15 min. Reactions were stopped by adding 4× SDS/DTT loading buffer and boiling for 10 min. Proteins were resolved on an SDS–PAGE/10% acrylamide gel. Products were detected by autoradiography. Proteins were extracted from plant tissue using a standard extraction buffer [100 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5% (v/v) Igepal]. Samples were left 10 min on ice before centrifugation for 15 min in a microcentrifuge. Supernatant containing 30 μg protein was used for western blot analysis while up to 3 mg protein was used for immunoprecipitation (IP) or pulldown experiments. For IPs and pulldowns, extracts were incubated at 4°C with primary antibody or GST fusion proteins. Proteins were recovered from the extract by adding protein agarose beads (Sigma, St Louis, MO) or glutathionine beads (Sigma) and incubating for 1 h. Beads were washed four times with extraction buffer before loading on a SDS–PAGE/10% acrylamide. Detection of proteins on nitrocellulose membrane was done using an ECL kit (Amersham, Arlington Heights, IL). axr6/+ seedlings were identified by growth on medium containing 2,4‐D. Wild‐type and mutant seedlings were incubated for 3.5 h in liquid sugar‐free minimal medium supplemented with 200 μCi of trans‐labeled [35S]methionine. After washing with water, seedlings were either directly frozen in liquid nitrogen or incubated for 17 min with 1 mM cold methionine/cysteine (Sigma) and cycloheximide (125 μg/ml) before freezing in liquid nitrogen. Protein extraction, immunoprecipitation and detection of AXR2/IAA7 were done as described previously (CITATION). Paraffin embedded 9‐day‐old seedlings grown in sterile culture were sectioned (10 μm) and transferred to Superfrost Plus Micro Slides (VWR). Before incubation with the primary antibody, sections were deparaffinized in xylene, rehydrated in an decreasing ethanol series, treated for 20 min with 0.2 M HCl and protease K (1 μg/ml) and were re‐fixed in a freshly prepared 4% paraformaldehyde solution. Sections were incubated overnight at 4°C with an affinity purified αCUL1 as primary antibody. Detection of the primary antibody was done using a secondary biotin‐conjugated antibody and biotin–avidin detection kit with peroxidase activity (Vector Laboratories, Burkingame, CA). For local treatments of apices, IAA (Fluka, Buchs, Switzerland) 100 mM stock solutions in DMSO were dissolved in a pre‐warmed (50°C) paste consisting of lanolin with 2.5% paraffin (Merck) according to CITATION to give a final concentration of 1 mM IAA. The paste was manually applied directly to Arabidopsis inflorescence apices on the intact plant. For microscopic analysis, apices were viewed with an S‐3500N variable pressure scanning electron microscope from Hitachi (Tokyo, Japan), equipped with a cool stage. Lanolin paste in digital images was pseudocolored for clarity.
