!~ABS~! NPR1 is an essential regulator of plant systemic acquired resistance (SAR), which confers immunity to a broad-spectrum of pathogens. SAR induction results in accumulation of the signal molecule salicylic acid (SA), which induces defense gene expression via activation of NPR1. We found that in an uninduced state, NPR1 is present as an oligomer formed through intermolecular disulfide bonds. Upon SAR induction, a biphasic change in cellular reduction potential occurs, resulting in reduction of NPR1 to a monomeric form. Monomeric NPR1 accumulates in the nucleus and activates gene expression. Inhibition of NPR1 reduction prevents defense gene expression, whereas mutation of Cys82 or Cys216 in NPR1 leads to constitutive monomerization, nuclear localization of the mutant proteins, and defense gene expression. These data provide a missing link between accumulation of SA and activation of NPR1 in the SAR signaling pathway.
!~RES~! To determine whether the cysteines in NPR1 affect the conformation of the protein before and after SAR induction, we performed protein extractions in the absence of reducing agents, such as dithiothreitol (DTT). As controls, DTT (50 mM) was later added to aliquots of the same extracts. Protein extracts from wild-type Columbia (Col-0) plants treated with the SAR inducer INA or with water were subjected to SDS-PAGE, followed by immunoblot analysis. In the absence of DTT, NPR1 protein (MW 66,000) was only observed in samples prepared from INA-treated plants but not from water-treated plants CITATION . However, in the samples to which DTT was added after extraction, equal amounts of NPR1 protein were detected with or without INA treatment. INA treatment seemed to have the same effect on the NPR1 protein as DTT. Similar results were obtained from samples treated with two other SAR inducers, SA and BTH (data not shown). These results suggest that NPR1 may exist in a different state or conformation before and after SAR induction. Evidently, the polyclonal antibody raised against the N-terminal half of NPR1 could only recognize the INA-activated form of the protein. To detect NPR1 in both INA-treated as well as untreated samples, we used another NPR1 antibody raised against a 16 amino acid peptide at the C terminus and found that it crossreacted with other homologs of NPR1 in Arabidopsis (data not shown). As an alternative approach, we tested the previously characterized transgenic line carrying the 35S::NPR1-GFP transgene in the npr1-1 mutant background CITATION . NPR1-GFP is regulated in a similar fashion to endogenous NPR1, allowing us to use this transgenic line to study the behavior of NPR1 using a commercially available antibody against GFP. Protein samples extracted from 35S::NPR1-GFP (npr1-1) plants treated with INA or water were subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis. As shown in CITATION , in the absence of DTT, the NPR1-GFP fusion protein was detected at the expected MW (93,000) only in the INA-treated sample but not in the untreated sample. This is consistent with the result obtained using the antibody against the endogenous NPR1. However, an additional protein band with a much higher MW was detected in both samples. The addition of DTT to both extracts eliminated this complex and reduced all the NPR1 protein to the monomeric form on the gel as shown by the downward shift of the high MW protein band to MW 93,000. This suggests that an NPR1-containing complex is formed through intermolecular disulfide bonds. Significantly, the disulfide bonds can be partially reduced as a result of INA induction. The reduced monomeric form of NPR1 observed in the immunoblot analysis probably represents an in vivo conformation of the protein, because in a gel filtration experiment, under nondenaturing conditions, monomeric NPR1 was detected after SAR induction (data not shown). However, the high MW protein complex detected in the immunoblot analysis could be a product of nonspecific crosslinking caused by disulfide bond formation during sample preparation. To rule out this possibility, we homogenized plant tissue and denatured the protein in the presence of the alkylating agents, 2 mM iodoacetamide (IOD) or N -ethylmaleimide (NEM), which block free thiol groups from forming nonspecific disulfide bonds while keeping existing disulfide bonds intact CITATION . The immunoblot of the resultant samples is shown in CITATION , revealing that treatment with IOD or NEM during sample preparation did not affect the formation of the high MW protein complex, confirming that the complex existed in intact plant cells prior to protein extraction. Identical results were obtained using 20-fold higher concentration of NEM. As an additional control, immunoblot analysis of samples from 35S::GFP transgenic plants treated with INA or water showed that the GFP protein alone did not form a high MW complex (data not shown), indicating that the complex observed in the 35S::NPR1-GFP transgenic line formed through the cysteines in NPR1. To determine the nature of the high MW complex, we added a low concentration (0.5 mM) of DTT to the protein extraction buffer to artificially generate intermediates of the oligomer-to-monomer reaction. As shown in CITATION , under these weakly reducing conditions, proteins with MWs of the NPR1-GFP dimer and trimer were detected. This result indicated that the high MW protein complex is either a homooligomer of NPR1 or a heterooligomer formed between NPR1 and a protein of similar MW. Immunoprecipitation performed using the anti-GFP monoclonal antibody showed that this antibody could not only precipitate NPR1-GFP but also the endogenous NPR1 CITATION . This observation favors the hypothesis that the high MW complex is a homooligomer of NPR1. From the 8% SDS-PAGE gel in CITATION , it is difficult to determine precisely how many NPR1-GFP proteins are in the oligomer. It is possible that the high MW band on the gel consists of oligomers with varying numbers of NPR1. We cannot rule out the possibility that other proteins besides NPR1 are part of this complex. To demonstrate that the NPR1 oligomer can be reduced to the monomer in vivo, we also performed an INA induction experiment in the presence of 100 μM of cycloheximide to inhibit new protein synthesis ( CITATION ; data not shown). Without protein synthesis, NPR1 monomer still appeared after INA treatment, indicating that the monomeric NPR1 came from reduction of the oligomer CITATION . The INA-induced switch of NPR1 protein from oligomer to monomer suggests that there might be a decrease in the reduction potential in plants following induction. To test this hypothesis, we measured the changes in the glutathione pool (GSH+GSSG) after INA treatment, because glutathione is a major thiol-disulfide redox buffer in plant cells CITATION . Measurements of total glutathione and GSSG levels have previously been made to estimate the redox environment in plants after pathogen attack CITATION . As shown in CITATION , INA treatment caused similar changes in kinetics in the total glutathione levels and the GSH/GSSG ratios, which first showed a dramatic decrease 8 hr after INA treatment, followed by a sharp increase reaching a plateau 24 hr after INA treatment. The change in the GSH/GSSG ratio appeared to be influenced mainly by the concentration of GSH. To determine whether similar redox changes also occur in systemic tissues, we measured the total glutathione levels and the GSH/GSSG ratios in plants inoculated with the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv maculicola ES4326 (Psm ES4326) carrying the avirulence gene, avrRpt2 . Half leaves were infected with the pathogen and the uninfected halves were collected for the measurements. We found that in these uninfected tissues total glutathione and GSH/GSSG ratio were significantly increased, reaching peak levels of 0.34 mM and 13.9:1, respectively, 24 hr after infection CITATION . These increases were not observed in mock-inoculated plants. We also measured glutathione concentrations in leaves distal to the infection site and did not observe consistent results, probably because the signals were too weak or too diluted. To test whether the observed changes in the glutathione pool and GSH/GSSG ratio could result in reduction of the NPR1 oligomer in vitro, we incubated protein extracts from uninduced plants in defined concentrations of GSH/GSSG at 0°C for 1 hr before SDS-PAGE. As shown by immunoblot analysis CITATION , the NPR1-GFP monomer began to appear in significant amounts when the GSH/GSSG ratio exceeded 15:1. To test whether this reaction is reversible, we also used protein extracts from INA-treated plants. At a GSH/GSSG ratio below 7.5:1, the monomeric NPR1 started to be oxidized to the oligomeric form (data not shown). It is interesting to note that the GSH/GSSG ratio required for in vitro NPR1 reduction is similar to that reached in plants after SAR induction. However, these data only show a correlation of the redox changes of these two redox couples, they do not indicate that GSH/GSSG and NPR1 monomer/oligomer are in redox equilibrium. These data confirm that SAR induction leads to a decrease in cellular reduction potential. Consequently, the cysteine residues in NPR1 are reduced, releasing the NPR1 monomer from the oligomeric complex. The reducing agent that is directly involved in this process has yet to be determined. SAR induction not only switches NPR1 protein from oligomer to monomer, but also activates downstream PR gene expression, suggesting that NPR1 monomerization might be a regulatory mechanism by which SA turns on NPR1-dependent gene expression. To test this hypothesis, a time course experiment was performed to follow the kinetics of NPR1 reduction and NPR1-dependent expression of PR genes. Following INA treatment, monomerization of the NPR1 protein preceded expression of PR1 , as shown in CITATION . Significant amounts of NPR1 monomer were detected 8 hr after INA treatment while PR1 gene expression became prominent 16 hr after INA treatment. The tight correlation between the two events supports the hypothesis that NPR1 protein monomerization is a regulatory step required for the activation of PR gene expression. Even though NPR1 reduction and PR1 gene activation CITATION correlated with the cellular redox changes as measured using glutathione CITATION , NPR1 reduction seemed to appear earlier than the GSH/GSSG ratio increase. This might be explained by the nonsynchronous nature of induction. In the induced tissue, the redox environment in some cells might be reduced enough for NPR1 monomerization and PR1 gene activation, while in other cells the reduction potential had yet to decrease. The overall GSH/GSSG ratio might not accurately reflect the redox environment of the cellular compartment (cytosol) where NPR1 resides. Glutathione concentrations of the endoplasmic reticulum, nuclei, mitochondria, and chloroplasts can all contribute to the overall GSH/GSSG ratio. An alternative explanation of this observation is that GSH is not the direct reducing agent of NPR1 in vivo. Besides glutathione, other redox-controlling molecules such as thioredoxin may be involved in regulating NPR1 reduction. To confirm that NPR1 reduction is indeed a process associated with SAR, we performed biological induction of SAR using Psm ES4326/ avrRpt2 . Uninfected half leaves and distal leaves were collected and examined for NPR1 monomerization and PR1 gene induction 24 hr and three days after inoculation, respectively. A correlation between the presence of NPR1 monomer and the expression of PR1 was observed in the systemic tissues CITATION . To establish a causative relationship between the reduction of NPR1 and activation of PR1 transcription, we sought a means to prevent NPR1 reduction after INA treatment. The pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) provides the cytosolic source of NADPH, which is a major donor of electrons for reductive reactions CITATION . An inhibitor of PPP, 6-aminonicotinamide (6-AN) has been used widely to deplete cells of NADPH and prevent reductive reactions CITATION . To demonstrate that NPR1 reduction is essential for PR gene activation, we treated plants with INA followed by 6-AN. As shown in CITATION , 6-AN diminished the increases in total glutathione and GSH/GSSG ratio induced by INA, partially inhibited NPR1 monomerization, and decreased PR1 gene expression. Therefore, we concluded that NPR1 reduction is likely a prerequisite for PR gene expression. Although the PPP inhibitor, 6-AN, could prevent NPR1 reduction and decrease PR gene expression in response to INA induction, we could not rule out the possibility that 6-AN affected reduction of other unknown factors in the PR gene-regulating pathway. To provide further evidence to support our notion that NPR1 monomerization is a critical regulatory step for the activation of PR genes, mutations were introduced into the 35S::NPR1-GFP construct to alter the sequences encoding each of the ten conserved cysteines. Besides three of the cysteines, which were changed to a tyrosine (C150Y, C155Y) or a serine (C223S), the rest of the cysteines were changed to an alanine (C82A, C160A, C212A, C216A, C306A, C394A, and C511A). The resulting constructs ( 35S::npr1Cys-GFP ) were then transformed into the npr1-1 background, and the conformation and the functionality of the mutant proteins were examined in the transgenic plants. For each mutant construct, multiple independent transformants were characterized and the average amount of total npr1Cys-GFP protein accumulated in plants was estimated using samples prepared in the presence of DTT. As shown in CITATION , which includes one representative line from each construct, two mutants ( C155Y and C160A ) showed less protein accumulation than the wild-type while the other seven mutants ( C82A , C212A , C216A , C223S , C306A , C394A , and C511A ) showed almost the same levels of protein accumulation as the wild-type. In our previous experiments, no effect on protein accumulation was observed in the npr1-2 mutant, which carries the C150Y mutation. To examine the conformations of the mutant proteins, we also prepared the protein samples in the absence of DTT. Without SAR induction, seven mutants ( C155Y , C160A , C212A , C223S , C306A , C394A , and C511A ) were present only in the oligomeric form, similar to the wild-type protein. However, in the C82A and C216A mutants, monomeric npr1Cys-GFP was detected constitutively. This indicated that formation of oligomers in these mutants was partially inhibited by the cysteine-to-alanine mutations. More importantly, the presence of monomeric npr1Cys-GFP in these two mutants coincided with constitutively elevated PR1 gene expression CITATION . This result clearly demonstrated that the monomeric form of NPR1 is a biologically active conformation sufficient for induction of PR gene expression. To investigate further the molecular mechanism underlying activation of NPR1 through monomerization, we performed nuclear fractionation experiment in the absence of DTT. We found that only monomeric form of NPR1 was present in the nuclei of INA-treated plants CITATION . There was a correlation between NPR1-GFP monomerization and nuclear localization of the protein. This observation suggested that monomerization of NPR1 might be sufficient for its nuclear accumulation. If this is the case, monomerized npr1Cys-GFP in the C82A and C216A mutants should be able to accumulate in the nucleus in the absence of INA treatment. To test this hypothesis, we examined GFP fluorescence in plants transformed with the different 35S::npr1Cys-GFP constructs. We found that without INA treatment, the C82A and C216A mutants indeed showed significantly enhanced nuclear fluorescence compared to wild-type and other mutants CITATION . To confirm this result, we performed a nuclear fractionation experiment on the C82A and C216A mutants. The resulting nuclear protein extracts together with the total protein extracts were subjected to SDS-PAGE, followed by immunoblot analysis. As shown in CITATION , while equal amounts of NPR1-GFP, npr1C82A-GFP, and npr1C216A-GFP were detected in the total protein extracts, only npr1C82A-GFP and npr1C216A-GFP were found in the nuclear fraction. Therefore, we conclude that monomerization of NPR1 leads to its nuclear accumulation and subsequently PR gene induction.
!~MM~! The N terminus of NPR1 (nucleotides 1 to 1395) was cloned into pET-24c(+) (Novagen, Madison, WI) with NdeI and XhoI. The NPR1-His 6 fusion protein was purified from Escherichia coli by Ni + chelate chromatography, according to the supplier's instructions (Qiagen, Chatsworth, CA). The protein was further purified using an SDS-PAGE gel. Rabbit polyclonal anti-NPR1 antibody was made by immunizing rabbits with the NPR1-His 6 fusion protein (Pocono Rabbit Farm and Laboratory Inc., Canadensis, PA). The titer and specificity of the antibody were tested by immunoblot analysis. Protein was extracted from 2- to 3-week-old plants by homogenizing in extraction buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl 2 , 5 mM EDTA, 10% Glycerol, and protease inhibitors: 50 μg/mL TPCK, 50 μg/mL TLCK, and 0.6 mM PMSF). The extract was centrifuged at 14,000 g for 10 min. The protein concentration of the supernatant was determined using the Bio-Rad protein assay (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). To immunoprecipitate the NPR1-GFP protein, a green fluorescent protein (GFP) monoclonal antibody (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) was added to the extracts (1:200) and incubated on ice for 1 hr. The antibody bound proteins were precipitated by adding protein A agarose beads (50 μL/mL) to the extracts, followed by incubation at 4°C with gentle rocking for 2 hr. The beads were then precipitated by brief centrifugation (6,000 rpm for 30 s) and washed 3 times with the extraction buffer. The proteins were eluted using 1 × SDS sample buffer. To reduce disulfide bonds, 50 mM DTT was added to the protein extracts together with 2 × sample buffer (125 mM Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 5% SDS, 25% glycerol, and 0.4% bromophenol blue). The protein samples were heated at 60°C for 10 min, loaded onto an SDS-PAGE gel, and transferred to nitrocellulose after electrophoresis. The blot was probed with anti-NPR1 antibody (1:6000) or anti-GFP antibody (1:1000). The antibody-bound proteins were detected using a horseradish peroxidase-conjugated anti-rabbit or anti-mouse secondary antibody (Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, CA) followed by chemiluminescence with SuperSignal West Pico chemiluminescent substrate (Pierce, Rockford, IL). Nuclear fractionation was performed as described by CITATION . The nuclei were resuspended in the extraction buffer and subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis in the absence of DTT as described above. Plant leaf tissue (0.2 g) was homogenized in 2 ml of 2% metaphosphoric acid containing 2 mM EDTA and centrifuged at 4°C for 10 min at 14,000 g . The supernatant was used for glutathione measurement CITATION . RNA extraction and RNA blot analysis were carried out as described by CITATION . To induce SAR, 3-week-old Arabidopsis plants were inoculated with the avirulent bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringea pv. maculicola ES4326/ avrRpt2 at the concentration of OD 600 = 0.02. Uninoculated tissues were collected for analysis. The 35S::NPR1-GFP cassette, including the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase polyadenylation sequence, was excised from the pRTL2ΔN-NPR1-mGFPS65T construct CITATION with SphI, blunt-ended using T 4 DNA polymerase and introduced into the SmaI site of the plant transformation vector pCB302 CITATION . Site-directed mutagenesis of the conserved cysteines in NPR1 was performed in the pCB302-35S::NPR1-GFP construct using a PCR-based QuickChange site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). The presence of the expected mutations in the 35S::npr1Cys-GFP constructs was verified by DNA sequencing. The pCB302 plasmids carrying 35S::NPR1-GFP and 35S::npr1Cys-GFP were electroporated into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (pMP90). The resulting Agrobacteria were used to transform npr1-1 plants using a floral dipping method CITATION . Transformants were selected on soil by spraying with the herbicide Basta (glufosinate ammonium, dilution 1:2000). Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) plants and 35S::NPR1-GFP transgenic plants (in npr1-1 ) were grown in soil (Metro Mix 200; Grace-Sierra, Milpitas, CA). For induction, 3-week-old plants were transferred to culture wells with their roots submerged in a solution containing 2,6-dichloroisonicotinic acid (INA, 0.5 mM) or SA (0.5 mM) for 24 hr unless indicated otherwise. To inhibit protein synthesis, 100 μM cycloheximide and 10 μM MG132 (proteasome inhibitor) were added to the induction solution 2 hr before adding INA. Arabidopsis leaf tissues were mounted in water and viewed with a Leica (Wetzlar, Germany) DMRB fluorescence microscope. GFP was visualized using an excitation wavelength of 488 nm and a bandpass 510 to 520 nm emission filter.
