!~ABS~! GLABRA3 (GL3) encodes a bHLH protein that interacts with the WD repeat protein, TTG1. GL3 overexpression suppresses the trichome defect of the pleiotropic ttg1 mutations. However, single gl3 mutations only affect the trichome pathway with a modest trichome number reduction. A novel unlinked bHLH-encoding locus is described here, ENHANCER OF GLABRA3 (EGL3). When mutated, egl3 gives totally glabrous plants only in the gl3 mutant background. The double bHLH mutant, gl3 egl3, has a pleiotropic phenotype like ttg1 having defective anthocyanin production, seed coat mucilage production, and position-dependent root hair spacing. Furthermore, the triple bHLH mutant, gl3 egl3 tt8, phenocopies the ttg1 mutation. Yeast two-hybrid and plant overexpression studies show that EGL3, like GL3, interacts with TTG1, the myb proteins GL1, PAP1 and 2, CPC and TRY, and it will form heterodimers with GL3. These results suggest a combinatorial model for TTG1-dependent pathway regulation by this trio of partially functionally redundant bHLH proteins.
!~RES~! We previously cloned the Arabidopsis R-like bHLH locus, Glabra3 (CITATION). Ectopic overexpression of GL3 in wild-type plants gives phenotypes similar to ectopic R expression and GL3 overexpression partially suppresses the ttg1 mutation. gl3 mutants do not have a truly glabrous phenotype and we speculated that there was another, partially functionally redundant bHLH protein involved in trichome initiation. We screened for mutations that result in completely hairless plants in the gl3-1 mutant background. Screening of M2 seedlings from EMS-treated gl3-1 Arabidopsis seeds resulted in the isolation of 20 independent glabrous lines. Complementation testing revealed two new complementation groups. Of these two new groups, one was hit only once and one was hit seven times. The large new complementation group was designated Enhancer of Glabra3 (EGL3, Fig. 1 compare A, B, and D). When the gl3-1 egl3-1 double mutant was crossed to the gl3-1 progenitor, the F1 looked like the gl3 parent. When crossed to wild type, the F1 looked wild type, indicating that the egl3 mutation is qualitatively recessive.   [[FIGURE]] In order to test whether the GL3-like locus, At1G63650, was mutated in the new gl3-1 enhancer complementation groups, we sequenced PCR generated fragments. Lesions at this locus that result in premature stop codons were identified in both sequenced alleles of the large complementation group. The stop in egl3-1 is codon 26, TGG to TGA. The stop in egl3-2 is codon 266, CAA to TAA. EGL3 encodes a putative protein of 596 amino acids, 39 amino acids shorter than GL3. The length difference is distributed throughout the coding region. Like GL3, EGL3 appears to have six introns and the two proteins are approximately 75% similar at the amino acid level. An alignment of GL3 and EGL3 has been presented elsewhere (CITATION). Mutations in GL3 have a moderate effect on trichome initiation and a strong effect on reducing trichome branching, endoreduplication and cell size (CITATION; CITATION) but no apparent effect on non-trichome pathways. However, ectopic expression of GL3, EGL3 or R will suppress most or all of the defects caused by mutations in TTG1 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) (this work). One possible explanation is that there are multiple TTG1-dependent bHLH proteins responsible for the different pathways and that ectopic expression of any one of them will bypass the need for TTG1 in many of the pathways. We characterized the three TTG1-dependent non-trichome pathways in the gl3 egl3 double mutant to determine whether the absence of both endogenous bHLH proteins conferred pleiotropic defects. The seeds coats, or testa, of gl3 egl3 are brown, not transparent like the many transparent testa mutants including ttg1 (Fig. 2M). However, a clear-cut qualitative anthocyanin deficit is seen in the hypocotyls and cotyledons of 5-day-old gl3 egl3 seedlings (Fig. 2P). Anthocyanins are commonly highly expressed in the hypocotyls (CITATION) and Fig. 2P compares the wild-type strain, ttg1-1, gl3-1, egl3-1 single and the gl3 egl3 double mutants. It is clearly evident that the double mutant and ttg1-1 have no observable purple anthocyanin compared to the parental line. The gl3 mutant looks more or less wild type and the egl3 mutant has reduced anthocyanin content.   [[FIGURE]] Wild-type seeds produce copious mucilage during seed coat differentiation and this mucilage is released from dry seeds imbibed in water (CITATION; CITATION). The ttg1 and glabra2 (gl2) mutants (CITATION; CITATION) do not produce releasable mucilage. The gl3 mutants produce normal amounts of mucilage as seen by Ruthenium red staining (CITATION) of seeds imbibed in water (Fig. 2J). However, both the egl3 single (not shown) and the gl3 egl3 double (Fig. 2K) mutants produce less mucilage. This phenotype displays incomplete penetrance however, with some seeds producing almost normal amounts of mucilage while most produce none or patches of mucilage. The ttg1, gl2, ap2 (CITATION) and myb61 (CITATION) mutants fail to produce columellae in the their mature outer seed coat cells and this failure is directly correlated with the absence of releasable mucilage. Fig. 2 compares the seed coat morphology of gl3-1 (Fig. 2A, indistinguishable from wild type), gl3 egl3 (Fig. 2B), egl3 (Fig. 2C) and ttg1 (Fig. 2I). Both the egl3 single and the gl3 egl3 double mutants produce many seeds with a testa that exhibits a mosaic of cells with and without columellae and collapsed columellae. Examples of these are illustrated in Fig. 2B,C. The influence of TT8 on mucilage cell differentiation is discussed below. Wild-type Arabidopsis produce root hairs (trichoblasts) in files of epidermal cells that lie over the radial wall between two cortical cells. There are normally eight cortical cells with eight separating radial walls and therefore eight files of trichoblast cells separated by a variable number of non-hair cell files (CITATION; CITATION). Mutations in TTG1, GLABRA2 and WEREWOLF (CITATION) cause essentially all root epidermal cells to assume a hair cell fate, ablating position-dependent differentiation. The gl3 egl3 double mutant exhibits this same ttg1-like phenotype. We have not done extensive quantification of root hair production, but it is clear that the gl3 egl3 double mutant (Fig. 3B) differentiates root hairs in all cell files, as does ttg1 (Fig. 3C), showing that the double mutant has lost the ability to limit root hair differentiation to specific cell files (Fig. 3A). Qualitative observations of gl3 and egl3 single mutants show at most, a mild loss of root hair position dependency (not shown).   [[FIGURE]] Observations of the F2 progeny from the gl3 egl3× wild type outcross implied that egl3 had no trichome phenotype by itself, i.e. gl3 is epistatic to egl3. However, it is possible that egl3 single mutants exhibited a subtle phenotype not easily observed with qualitative observation. Single egl3-1 mutant lines (Fig. 1C) were grown beside wild-type seedlings (Fig. 1A) and scored for trichome number and branching in leaves numbered on to four. Table 1 shows that the egl3-1 line exhibits a significant reduction in trichome number (approximately a 20% drop) and a shift to fewer branches. The proportion of total four-branched trichomes dropped from 38% to 18% while three-branched trichomes increased from 60% to 78%.    Leaf trichome phenotypes for wild-type and egl3-1 mutant Arabidopsis  One of these lines was crossed to gl3-2 and the F1 were selfed. Approximately one sixteenth of the F2 were completely hairless. This corroborates the finding that mutations in two bHLH loci, GL3 and EGL3 are required to produce a truly glabrous trichome phenotype and that this interaction is not specifically dependent on the gl3-1 allele. Prior to identifying enhancers of gl3, we overexpressed a PCR-generated genomic copy (including introns) of the At1G63650 locus in ttg1-1 and wild type under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. Overexpression of the At1G63650 /EGL3 genomic clone initiated trichome differentiation in the ttg1 background (Fig. 1E,G) and increased trichome initiation in wild type (Fig. 1J). However, like the GL3 genomic clone (CITATION), the overexpressed EGL3 genomic clone was a weak suppressor of the ttg1 trichome defect. EGL3 also suppressed the anthocyanin defect of the ttg1 mutation (Fig. 2Q), as did GL3 (Fig. 2Q). EGL3 genomic clone overexpression also suppressed the mucilage defect of the ttg1 mutation, while neither GL3 cDNA nor genomic clone was able to. This can be seen by comparing the collapsed columellae of ttg1 that are not rescued by GL3 overexpression but are by EGL3 (Fig. 2G,H,I). Similar to the suppression of the mucilage defect, overexpressed EGL3 was able to suppress the transparent testa defect of ttg1 while GL3 was not (Fig. 2N). In addition, the ttg1 lines overexpressing GL3 cDNA consistently had a different trichome phenotype (Fig. 1F) than those overexpressing either the EGL3 genomic (Fig. 1G) or the GL3 genomic fragment. The only difference between the GL3 cDNA and genomic DNA fragments is the inclusion of the introns. The EGL3 genomic overexpression trichome phenotype looked very much like the overexpressed GL3 genomic clone phenotype. These had fewer and less branched trichomes than wild type but the trichomes did not appear distorted, while the GL3 cDNA produced many short fat distorted trichomes. Overexpressed GL3 cDNA in wild type (Fig. 1I) was also a much stronger trichome initiator than the genomic clone. Root hairs have not been characterized in these overexpression lines. The EGL3 and GL3 overexpression lines were crossed to create a ttg1-1 mutant background overexpressing both genes. Together the two genes are extremely strong suppressors of the ttg1 trichome defect (Fig. 1H), causing the plants to produce far more trichomes than wild type. This is similar to ttg1 plants overexpressing R. Many of these trichomes are highly branched, like the R-induced trichomes. In addition, trichomes produced by coectopic expression are not distorted. We also looked at seed coat pigment phenotypes when GL3 or EGL3 were overexpressed in ttg1. EGL3 was able to restore some seed coat pigment while GL3 was not (Fig. 2N). The GL3/EGL3 co-overexpressing lines produced as much or more seed coat pigment as wild type (Fig. 2N, upper) indicating that GL3 can participate in seed coat pigment regulation. As further demonstration that these bHLH proteins have overlapping regulatory capabilities, we overexpressed GL3 and EGL3 in the gl3 egl3 double mutant and in tt8. Each construct was able to suppress the double mutant (not shown). Ectopic expression of the EGL3 genomic clone strongly suppressed, while the GL3 cDNA or genomic clone weakly suppressed the tt8 seed coat pigment defect (Fig. 2O) similar to the differential affect seen in ttg1. We also found that either gene was able to increase the visible pigment content of the tt8 mutant hypocotyls (Fig. 2R) but not by much. The tt8 mutant has a transparent testa, like ttg1. However, unlike ttg1 mutants, it produces substantial anthocyanins in the plant body. Mutants blocked early in the anthocyanin pathway lack anthocyanins in the plant as well as having a transparent testa. These include the regulatory mutant, ttg1 and mutations in structural genes such as chalcone synthase (tt4) (CITATION; CITATION) and dihydroflavanol reductase (tt3) (CITATION; CITATION). Anthocyanins in the tt8 plant body and seed coat in gl3 egl3 indicates that there is flux through this pathway in both genotypes. We produced gl3-1 egl3-1 tt8-1 triple mutants and observed them for anthocyanin production by looking at young hypocotyls, a stage when anthocyanin production is relatively high. While the double mutant produced some visible pigment, no anthocyanin production was observed in any developmental stage of the triple mutant indicating that these three bHLH loci are partially redundant in regulating the anthocyanin pathway. Analysis of the regulation of TT4 and TT3 is presented below. Columellae development and mucilage production were observed in the triple mutants. Recall that egl3 single and gl3 egl3 double mutants are partially defective in columellae development and mucilage production, but tt8 does not appear to have any defect in this pathway (Fig. 2D) (CITATION). Fig. 2E, F and L shows that both the gl3 egl3 tt8 triple and the egl3 tt8 double mutants produce collapsed columellae with no releasable mucilage indicating these bHLH loci are partially redundant in mucilage pathway regulation. Our evidence indicates that GL3 normally plays no role in mucilage production. GL3 and R interact with GL1 when co-overexpressed in Arabidopsis to produce more trichomes (CITATION; CITATION) and R and C1 interact to produce more anthocyanin pigment (CITATION). Here we tested whether co-ectopic expression of EGL3 with either of two myb elements, GL1 and PAP1, would give synergistic phenotypes thus indicating interaction. GL1 overexpression alone suppresses trichome initiation on true leaves (Fig. 2S) (CITATION). EGL3/GL1 co-overexpression produces supernumerary trichomes on the hypocotyls and cotyledons and excessive trichomes on the true leaves (Fig. 2T) indicating a synergistic interaction similar to the GL3/GL1 and R/GL1 interactions. EGL3 and PAP1 co-overexpression resulted in more anthocyanin production than in either parent alone indicating a synergistic interaction similar to the R/C1 interaction. This is most easily seen in the anthocyanins present in the normally white petals. PAP1 overexpression alone causes increased anthocyanin production, however, the petals are still essentially white (Fig. 2U, left) (CITATION). When PAP1 and EGL3 were co-overexpressed, the petals were pink with dark pink veins (Fig. 2U, right). GL3/PAP1 co-overexpression gave the same result (not shown). For molecular verification that members of this set of bHLH genes regulate anthocyanin production, expression of the anthocyanin biosynthetic genes, chalcone synthase (CHS) and dihydroflavonol reductase (DFR) was analyzed in various genetic backgrounds. Quantitative real time RT-PCR was performed on Ler wild type, ttg1, egl3 gl3 double mutant, and egl3 gl3 tt8 triple mutant. The comparative CT method was used to analyze the data. In Fig. 4F, the expression levels of CHS and DFR in ttg1 were set to equal 1 and all other levels are relative to that. Kubasek et al. (CITATION) showed that TTG1 does not regulate transcription of CHS, the first step in the anthocyanin branch of the phenylpropanoid pathway, but it does regulate DFR, a later step. Our results agree with that finding. We also found that the bHLH regulators studied here play no appreciable role in regulating CHS. However, like TTG1, the bHLH regulators positively regulate DFR transcription. DFR expression in wild type is more than 900-fold greater than in ttg1, while DFR expression in gl3 egl3 is 100-fold more (9-fold down from wild type) and gl3 egl3 tt8 is 15-fold more than in ttg1 (63-fold down from wild type).   [[FIGURE]] We previously found that GL3 had three distinct protein-protein interaction domains (CITATION). (1) The first 100 amino acids were required for interactions with myb proteins GL1, PAP1 and PAP2, CPC and TRY (the latter four presented here; Table 2), (2) approximately amino acids 200-400 mediated interaction with TTG1, and (3) a carboxy end fragment including the bHLH domain was able to interact with itself (homodimerize). We performed a similar but less extensive analysis of EGL3 two-hybrid interactions using two EGL3 cDNA fragments. The amino fragment contains the first 367 amino acids and excludes the bHLH domain. The carboxy fragment is 229 amino acids long and contains the entire bHLH region. Two-hybrid studies (Table 2) showed that the EGL3 amino fragment interacted with full-length TTG1 and the myb domains of GL1, PAP1 and PAP2, CPC and TRY. The EGL3 carboxy fragment interacted with itself and the full-length and bHLH end of GL3. All EGL3 interactions observed were consistent with a model where EGL3 and GL3 are able to form essentially the same protein-protein interactions.    Positive and negative interaction in yeast two-hybrid analysis  We performed whole-mount in situ RT-PCR to observe the gene expression patterns of EGL3 and GL3 in seedlings with developing leaves and trichomes (EGL3 shown in Fig. 4A). Both genes were expressed in young leaves prior to trichome initiation. They became more highly expressed in initiating and young trichome cells. Expression dropped in the pavement cells between trichomes, in the region of early trichome development, but remained relatively strong in the base of the leaf where active trichome initiation and development was occurring. The expression became very faint or nondetectable in mature trichomes. Both genes had this same pattern but interestingly, EGL3 was consistently expressed at higher levels. Promoter-GUS fusion experiments showed the same overall expression pattern as well as the higher EGL3 expression level (GL3GUS shown in Fig. 4C). These expression patterns are similar to those reported for GLABRA1 (CITATION). GL2 expression was observed by using a GL2 promoter-GUS transgenic line that has been extensively used (CITATION; CITATION). The GL2GUS fusion was isolated in the double mutant by crossing and isolating completely glabrous, kanamycin resistant F2 plants. Fig. 4D shows the typical GL2 expression pattern in wild-type plants. GL2 is expressed in young and developing trichomes but is not strongly expressed in young leaves as opposed to EGL3 and GL3. In the gl3 egl3 mutant, GL2 expression is not detected in the leaves (Fig. 4E). It is interesting that we see relatively strong GL2 expression in the stipules of wild-type plants, which remains strong in the mutant (arrows in Fig. 4D,E). GL1 is reported to be expressed in stipules (CITATION; CITATION) but neither GL3 or EGL3 expression is obvious in stipules.
!~MM~! Scanning electron microscopy was performed as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). All strains were in the Landsberg erecta (Ler) ecotype unless noted otherwise. The gl3-1, gl3-2 and ttg1-1 strains have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The gl3-1 egl3-1 and gl3-1 egl3-2 strains were created by EMS mutagenesis of the gl3-1 mutant background. 6,000 gl3-1 seeds were treated with 0.3% EMS according to the method of Lightner and Caspar (CITATION). The selfed progeny from groups of 1,000 mutagenized parents were pooled and 8,000 M2 plants from each of the six pools were screened. In this group of 48,000 seedlings, we identified eleven enhancer mutants that appeared to have completely glabrous early leaves. Genetic complementation tests revealed that one enhancer was mutated in GL2, three were mutated in TTG1, and the other eight fell into two new complementation groups. Seven of the eight fell into a new complementation group identified as having lesions in the At1G63650 basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH). It is interesting to note that no mutations in GL1 were isolated although we know that gl3 gl1 double mutants are hairless and viable. The gl3 enhancer complementation group with the single member has not been characterized. The single egl3-1 mutant was isolated by identifying wild-type-appearing F2, from a gl3-1 egl3-1 to wild-type cross that segregated three wild type to one completely glabrous in the F3. These F2 lines had to be homozygous for egl3-1 and heterozygous for gl3-1. F3 individuals were identified that segregated only wild-type-appearing progeny in the F4 and PCR products were sequenced to verify the egl3-1 homozygous genotype. gl3-2 egl3-1 was identified by crossing an egl3-1 homozygote to gl3-2, selfing the F1 and identifying completely glabrous F2 progeny. The genotype was verified by genetic noncomplementarity with gl3-1 egl3-1. Genotypes that included tt8 (Enkheim accession) were identified by crossing, selfing the F1, and identifying F2 with the appropriate trichome phenotype and a transparent testa. The tt8 egl3 double mutant was verified by sequencing egl3, and the others by test crosses. The GL1 (CITATION) and PAP1 (CITATION) overexpression lines (both in Col0) were described previously. This in situ protocol is a combination of the RT-PCR protocol of Koltai and Bird (CITATION) and the whole-mount protocol of Engler et al. (CITATION). Soil-grown seedlings were fixed in 1:1 heptane:fixation buffer (0.08 M EGTA, 5% formaldehyde and 10% DMSO) for 30 minutes, dehydrated twice for 5 minutes in absolute methanol and three times for 5 minutes in absolute ethanol. Samples were stored 1-3 days in ethanol at –20°C. Samples were rinsed once in absolute ethanol and incubated for 30 minutes in 1:1 absolute ethanol:xylene, washed twice for 5 minutes in absolute ethanol, twice for 5 minutes in absolute methanol, and once for 5 minutes in 1:1 methanol:PBT (phosphate buffered saline + 0.1% Tween 20). Samples were postfixed for 30 minutes in PBT containing 5% formaldehyde followed by one rinse with PBS and two rinses with double distilled water (ddH2O). RNase inhibitor, M-MuLV RT, and either the GL3 or EGL3 gene-specific reverse primer were used to reverse transcribe the GL3 or EGL3 message. PCR reactions were performed with primers listed below with digoxigenin-labeled dUTP to yield a labeled PCR product of about 850 bp for GL3 and 650 bp for EGL3. GL3 primer sequence: forward 5′TGGTTGTGCAACGCTCATACGGCG3′; reverse 5′TCCCAGTTTCATCTCTGGCTTCTG3′ EGL3 primer sequence: forward 5′AACGCTGAAACCGCCGATAGC3′; reverse- 5′TCTCTCCCAATGTTTTCACA3′ Immediately after PCR, samples were washed twice for 5 minutes in PBT and blocked for 30 minutes in PBT containing 3% BSA. Preabsorbed alkaline phosphatase conjugated anti-digoxigenin monoclonal antibody (Boehringer Mannheim/Hoffmann-La Roche) was diluted 1:1500 in blocking solution. Samples were incubated overnight at 4°C in 1 ml of diluted antibody. Antibody solution was replaced by fresh blocking solution and incubated for 10 minutes. Samples were washed five times in PBT for 15-30 minutes and placed in 35×10 mm Petri plates with 1 ml of washing buffer (10 mM Tris, 15 mM NaCl, pH 9.5) containing 150 μg/ml 4-nitro blue tetrazolium chloride and 370 μg/ml 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-phosphate (Boehringer Mannheim/Hoffmann-La Roche). Color development was monitored by microscopy and stopped by rinsing with ddH2O. Total RNA was prepared from 100 mg aliquots of 5-day-old seedlings grown on germination medium (MS salts, Gamborg's B5 vitamins, 3% sucrose, 0.8% agar, pH 5.8) using a Qiagen RNeasy plant mini kit. 0.75 μg of total RNA was reversed transcribed in 20 μl reactions using a SuperScript II RT kit (Invitrogen). Unlabeled and fluorophore-labeled primers were designed with the help of LUX web-based primer design software (www.invitrogen.com/lux). Primers amplifying target (CHS and DFR) and endogenous control (APRT) sequences were FAM- and JOE-labeled, respectively. The labeled T is in bold type. CHS primers: forward, 5′CACCTGCCAGCGATCCTAGACCAGGTG 3′; reverse, 5′ACGTGTCGCCCTCATCTTCT 3′ DFR primers: forward, 5′CTACATTTCTGCCGGAACCGTTAATGTAG 3′; reverse, 5′CACGCTGCTTTCTCCGCTAA 3′ APRT primers: forward, 5′CAACGTGGCCCTCCTATTGCGTTG 3′; reverse, 5′CCGAAATAACCTTCCCAGGTAGC 3′ 2 μl of cDNA template was amplified in 50 μl PCR reactions containing 100 nM target primers, 125 nM APRT primers, and 60 nM ROX reference dye using platinum Taq (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Reactions were conducted and fluorescence was monitored in a spectrofluorometric thermal cycler (ABI PRISM 7700). The comparative cycle threshold (CT) method was used to analyze the results of quantitative PCR (User Bulletin 2, ABI PRISM 7700 Sequence Detection System). Relative transcript levels of target genes are reported normalized to an endogenous reference, APRT (CITATION; CITATION), and relative to a reference calibrator. Many of the GL3, GL1 and TTG1 constructs have been described previously (CITATION). All others are briefly described here and cloning details are available upon request. All PCR amplification products used in construction were completely sequenced. pGL3STR contains the CaMV35S::GL3 cDNA from the start to stop codons in the plant overexpression vector, pLBJ21 (CITATION). pEGL3E contains the CaMV35S::EGL3 genomic fragment from the start to stop codons in the plant overexpression vector, pKYLX71 (CITATION). pGL3PGUS contains 2.5 kb of DNA upstream of the GL3 coding region inserted in front of the GUS gene in pBI101.3 (Clontech). pEGLPGUS contains 3 kb of DNA upstream of the EGL3 coding region inserted in front of the GUS gene in pBG1.1 (CITATION). The original EGL3 EST, 146d23T7, encodes a spurious stop codon at predicted codon 248 (GenBank Accession Number, AF027732). A new EGL3 cDNA was prepared from WS wild-type inflorescence by RT-PCR. The product encodes a 596 amino acid peptide. pEGL3NA encodes for the 367 amino acid EGL3 amino end in activation domain vector, pGAD424 (Clontech). pEGL3CTA encodes for the 229 amino acid EGL3 carboxy end from residue 368 through 596 in pGAD424. pCPCDB encodes for the full length CPC protein in DNA binding domain vector, pGBT9 (Clontech). pTRYDB encodes for the full-length TRY protein in pGBT9. pP1MDB encodes for the PAP1 myb domains, amino acids 1-113, in DNA binding domain vector, pAS2-1 (Clontech). pP2MDB encodes for the PAP2 myb domains, amino acids 1-113, in pAS2-1. The GL3, GL1 and TTG1 two-hybrid constructs used here have been fully described (CITATION) and are briefly described here. pGL3A encodes for the full-length GL3 protein in pGAD424. pGL3NTA encodes for the 400 amino acid GL3 amino end in pGAD424. pGL396A encodes for amino acids 97-635 of GL3 in pGAD424. pGL3211A encodes for amino acids 212-635 of GL3 in pGAD424. pGL3CTA encodes for amino acids 401-635 of GL3 in pGAD424. pGL1NTA encodes for amino acids 1-121 of GL1 in pGAD424. pTTG1B encodes for the full-length TTG1 protein in pAS2-1.
