!~ABS~! Extracellular Ca2+ (Ca2+o) is required for various physiological and developmental processes in animals and plants (CITATION) . In response to varied Ca2+o levels, plants maintain relatively constant internal Ca2+ content, suggesting a precise regulatory mechanism for Ca2+ homeostasis (CITATION) . However, little is known about how plants monitor Ca2+o status and whether Ca2+o-sensing receptors exist. The effects of Ca2+o on guard cells in promoting stomatal closure by inducing increases in the concentration of cytosolic Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) (CITATION) provide a clue to Ca2+o sensing. Here we have used a functional screening assay in mammalian cells (CITATION) to isolate an Arabidopsis complementary DNA clone encoding a Ca2+-sensing receptor, CAS. CAS is localized to the plasma membrane, exhibits low-affinity/high-capacity Ca2+ binding, and mediates Ca2+o-induced [Ca2+]i increases. CAS is expressed predominantly in the shoot, including guard cells. Repression of CAS disrupts Ca2+o signalling in guard cells, and impairs bolting (swift upward growth at the transition to seed production) in response to Ca2+ deficiency, so we conclude that CAS may be a primary transducer of Ca2+o in plants.
!~RES~! In plants, a high proportion of the total Ca2+ is often located in the cell wall and at the exterior surface of the plasma membrane (CITATION) . Ca2+o is important for the stability of the wall and the membrane, and is essential in many physiological processes, such as root-tip growth, pollen-tube elongation, light perception, and phytohormone action (CITATION) . In contrast to cytosolic Ca2+ sensing (CITATION) , how plants perceive Ca2+o and coordinate their growth and development with the status of Ca2+o remains largely unknown. It has long been established that Ca2+o promotes stomatal closure (CITATION) by triggering guard-cell [Ca2+]i increases and oscillations in Commelina (CITATION) . We reasoned that Ca2+o-induced [Ca2+]i increases (CICI) in Commelina guard cells might represent a mechanism by which plants sense Ca2+o. To investigate the molecular nature of CICI, we re-examined the Ca2+o effect in Arabidopsis guard cells using cameleon-based Ca2+-imaging techniques (CITATION) . The addition of CaCl2 induced [Ca2+]i increases in guard cells (Supplementary Fig. S-1a), consistent with previous studies (CITATION) . It is possible that increased Ca2+o provides a driving force for Ca2+ influx, triggers a signalling cascade for Ca2+ release from internal stores, or does both. In both animals and plants, the inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) pathway is responsible for stimulus-triggered Ca2+ release in many instances (CITATION) . Preliminary experiments show that inhibition of phospholipase C, a component of the IP3 pathway, abolished guard-cell CICI and stomatal closure (Supplementary Fig. S-1), indicating that CICI may involve Ca2+o sensing by a receptor (CAS). To study the putative CAS further, we attempted to clone CAS from Arabidopsis using a functional screening approach, as described for the capsaicin receptor (CITATION) . Messenger RNA from leaves was used to construct a cDNA library, which was subdivided into pools. Each pool was transiently transfected into human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells. Transfected cells were screened for CICI using ratiometric imaging of the fluorescent Ca2+-sensitive dye Fura-2. Ca2+o at 2.5 mM caused [Ca2+]i increases in a few cells transfected with empty vector (Fig. 1, top). A positive pool, pool-58, was identified, which resulted in more Ca2+o-sensitive cells (Fig. 1, middle). This pool was divided into ten sub-pools and re-screened. After subdividing the pool several times, a single 1.4-kb cDNA was isolated that conferred Ca2+o sensitivity to transfected HEK293 cells (Fig. 1, bottom), and was thus named CAS. [[FIGURE]] The CAS cDNA encodes a protein of 387 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 41,268 Da (Fig. 2a). CAS is a single-copy gene in the Arabidopsis genome. Database searches identified several homologues in other plant species but not in animals. Hydrophobicity analysis showed that CAS has a single transmembrane domain (Fig. 2a, b). The carboxy terminus is possibly intracellular, and has sequence similarity to a rhodanese domain, which is likely to have a role in protein–protein interactions. The putative extracellular amino terminus has no significant homology to any known functional domains. It should be noted that in contrast to cytosolic Ca2+ sensors, such as calmodulin (CaM) (CITATION) , CAS is unlikely to contain high-affinity Ca2+-binding sites, such as EF-hands, as physiological Ca2+o is in the submillimolar range (CITATION) . Nevertheless, acidic amino acids have been reported to act as low-affinity Ca2+-binding sites in animal cells (CITATION) . The N terminus contains several acidic amino acids and its isoelectric point is ∼5.3 (Fig. 2a). [[FIGURE]] To test whether CAS binds to Ca2+, we prepared recombinant proteins for both the N terminus and the C terminus (Fig. 2c, left), and assayed their abilities to bind Ca2+. When blotting with 45Ca only, the N terminus and CaM bound to 45Ca, but not the C terminus (Fig. 2c, middle). When blotting with 45Ca and cold CaCl2, only the N terminus bound to 45Ca (Fig. 2c, right), showing qualitatively that the N terminus is indeed a Ca2+-binding domain, and contains low-affinity/high-capacity Ca2+-binding sites compared with CaM. To analyse the Ca2+-binding quantitatively, we conducted equilibrium dialysis using the purified N-terminal protein. Figure 2d shows that the N terminus bound 10 to 12 Ca2+ per CAS molecule with a dissociation constant Kd ≈ 1.2 mM, confirming the 45Ca-binding data. Furthermore, we analysed the kinetics of activation and inactivation of CAS in HEK293 cells, which correlate with the association and dissociation between CAS and Ca2+o, respectively. The activation time course could be described by a simple sigmoid equation (CITATION) , with an activation time-constant of 28.6 s (Fig. 2e). A triple exponential decay function could be fitted (CITATION) to the inactivation of CAS (Fig. 3e) with an inactivation time-constant of 18.2 s. A Hill curve could be fitted (CITATION) to the data of CAS activation (Fig. 2f) with a Kd of ∼1.5 mM and a Hill coefficient of ∼2, consistent with the Kd and multiple Ca2+o-binding sites observed using equilibrium dialysis. Taken together, these data demonstrate that CAS contains low-affinity/high-capacity Ca2+-binding sites on the N terminus. [[FIGURE]] Subsequently, we determined the expression and subcellular localization of CAS in Arabidopsis. RNA blot analysis shows that CAS is predominantly expressed in shoots (Fig. 3a). A CAS promoter::GUS fusion shows that CAS is expressed in guard cells (Fig. 3b). We expressed 35S::CAS–GFP and 35S::GFP in onion epidermal cells, and found that CAS–GFP (green fluorescent protein) was exclusively localized to the cell surface, whereas GFP alone was localized throughout the cells (Fig. 3c). After the epidermal cells were incubated in 0.8 M mannitol, the fusion proteins and the plasma membrane retracted from the cell wall due to plasmolysis (not shown). We also found CAS in the membrane fraction but not in the soluble fraction of proteins from leaves (Fig. 3d). Finally, we confirmed the guard-cell surface localization of CAS using immunolocalization (CITATION) (Fig. 3e). To assess the function of CAS in plants, first we examined whether CAS is required for guard-cell Ca2+o signalling. As we were unable to find CAS-null lines, we introduced a 35S::CAS antisense construct into Arabidopsis. CAS expression was dramatically reduced at the mRNA and protein levels in all six antisense lines tested (AS1 to AS6) with three of them shown (Fig. 4a, b). To analyse CICI in guard cells, we introduced a cameleon construct into AS1 and AS2 plants, and found that the CICI was disrupted significantly in these lines compared with the wild type (WT; Fig. 4c, d). Ca2+o-induced stomatal closure was also abolished in these lines (Fig. 4e). However, ABA-induced stomatal closure was virtually unaffected (not shown), suggesting that CAS antisense specifically knocked out Ca2+o signalling, and that CAS has an essential role in guard-cell Ca2+o signalling. Note that, apart from Ca2+o, stomatal movements are regulated by various abiotic and biotic factors (CITATION) . Apparently, guard cells must integrate several factors to control stomatal apertures appropriately (CITATION) ; CAS, several Ca2+ influx and release mechanisms, and Ca2+ pumps must act in concert to regulate cytosolic free Ca2+ status (CITATION) . [[FIGURE]] Calcium is an abundant and essential divalent cation nutrient in higher plants, and has a central role in numerous physiological and developmental processes (CITATION) . To examine whether CAS also functions in processes other than stomatal closure, we analysed plant growth and development in response to limited Ca2+ supplies. Figure 4f shows that AS1 plants showed a severe defect in bolting in response to Ca2+ deficit compared with the wild type. AS1 plants bolted eventually at reduced Ca2+ but much later than the wild type (Fig. 4g). In contrast to wild-type plants, AS1 plants could not flower and displayed severe symptoms of Ca2+ deficiency (not shown). The Ca2+ content of these plants was further analysed and no significant differences between AS1 and wild-type plants were found under the imposed growth conditions (∼100% humidity, not shown). Similar phenotypes were observed in AS2 to AS6 plants. Bolting represents an important developmental switch in flowering plants (CITATION) . It is possible that a threshold of Ca2+o has to be reached and sensed by CAS to signal the switch to bolting. In the antisense plants, although the Ca2+o level is not changed, the malfunction of Ca2+o sensing cannot sensitively detect the level of Ca2+o and signals insufficient Ca2+o for bolting, suggesting that CAS has a key role in Arabidopsis development. We have cloned and characterized a cell surface Ca2+o-sensing receptor in Arabidopsis. We have also identified the essential role of CAS in Ca2+o signalling in guard cells and bolting. Molecular genetic, cell biological, and physiological analyses lead us to propose that Ca2+o activates CAS, which converts the Ca2+o signal into cytosolic free Ca2+. It is possible that CAS may initiate the IP3 pathway in Arabidopsis, as suggested by our preliminary observation (Supplementary Fig. S-1), consistent with IP3-induced stomatal closure (CITATION) . In contrast, previous studies have shown that the CICI in Commelina guard cells is not affected by inhibition of phospholipase C, but by inhibition of Ca2+ channels (CITATION) , suggesting that Ca2+o triggers Ca2+ influx. Therefore, it remains to be determined which Ca2+-mobilizing machineries—such as Ca2+ releases triggered by IP3, cyclic ADP-ribose or nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate, or Ca2+ influx channels—are activated by CAS. Functional analysis of CAS-mediated CICI in heterologous expression systems and in plants, and identification of the downstream components of CAS, should help to clarify these issues. The CAS-mediated Ca2+o-induced stomatal closure is possibly physiologically relevant. The distribution of Ca2+ in plants is affected by the rate of transpiration, which is predominantly controlled by stomata (CITATION) . Calcium moves in relatively large amounts to highly transpiring tissues, but much less moves to weakly transpiring tissues (CITATION) . From the standpoint of Ca2+ supply, plants must downregulate transpiration when the Ca2+-unloading rate is high, and vice versa. It is likely that excessive water evaporation from stomatal pores results in an increase in the local concentration of Ca2+o outside guard cells to submillimolar or millimolar. Consequently, the elevated Ca2+o activates CAS, which mediates stomatal closure, preventing excessive Ca2+ unloading. Thus, Ca2+o-induced stomatal closure could function as a feedback mechanism of Ca2+ supply. Interestingly enough, our preliminary data show that the Ca2+ content was ∼40% higher in antisense plants than in the wild type when they were grown in soil, supporting the feedback hypothesis. Precise information on the concentration range of Ca2+o is lacking (CITATION) , and data taken from the literature vary from 10 to 1,000 µM (refs 14, 22). It is especially difficult to precisely detect Ca2+o outside guard cells, as water evaporation from stomatal pores may cause uneven distribution of apoplastic solutes, including Ca2+o. Our finding that CAS is required for guard-cell Ca2+o signalling and bolting suggests that CAS has a central role in diverse Ca2+o-dependent processes. The cloning of CAS and manipulation of its activity now make it possible to assess the molecular function of Ca2+o in plants.
!~MM~! Leaf epidermal peels from soil-grown Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia) were placed in a microwell chamber containing 50 µM CaCl2, 5 mM KCl, 10 mM MES-Tris, pH 6.15. Cameleon-based Ca2+ imaging was performed as described (CITATION) using a fluorescence microscope (Axiovert 200; Zeiss) equipped with two filter wheels (Lambda 10-2; Sutter), and a cooled CCD camera (CoolSNAPfχ; Roper). Excitation was provided at 440 nm, and emission ratiometric (F535 nm/F480 nm) images were collected using Imaging Workbench 4.0 software (Axon). Rosette leaves were floated in solutions containing 50 µM CaCl2, 10 mM KCl, 10 mM MES-Tris, pH 6.15, for 2 h. CaCl2 at 2 mM was added to the solutions for 2 h to assay stomatal closure as described (CITATION) . mRNAs were isolated from Arabidopsis leaves. cDNAs were synthesized, and ligated into the SalI and NotI sites of pCMV•SPORT6 vector (Invitrogen). Recombinant plasmids were introduced into Escherichia coli. The resulting 2 × 106 clones were divided into 100 pools for transfection of HEK293 cells. HEK293 cells were grown and maintained in DMEM medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum, 0.1% penicillin and streptomycin. For transfection, cells were seeded onto eight-well-chambered coverglasses (Nunc) for 24 h, and transfected with plasmid DNA from individual pools using LipofectAMINE 2000 reagent (Invitrogen). Cells were loaded with Fura-2-AM (5 µM; Molecular Probes), and a Ca2+-imaging assay was performed in the HEK293 cells as described9. For 45Ca blot analysis (CITATION) , the N terminus (1–180) and C terminus (211–386) were subcloned into pET-30a and expressed in E. coli. The purified N and C termini together with bovine CaM at 10 µg were separated by SDS–PAGE, and transferred to membranes (Millipore). The membranes were washed in Ca2+-free solution containing 5 mM MgCl2, 60 mM KCl, 10 mM MES-KOH, pH 6.5, blotted with 2 µCi ml-1 (3 µM) fresh 45Ca (< 14 days; PerkinElmer, 370 MBq ml-1) for 10 min, rinsed for 5 min in 50% ethanol, and exposed to X-ray films. Unlabelled Ca2+ at 5 mM was added as indicated. Equilibrium dialysis was performed using dialysis cells (100 µl) separated by dialysis membranes (Bel-Art) as described (CITATION) . Purified N terminus (66 µM) was dialysed in a solution containing 0.1 µCi 45Ca (1.5 µM), 0–10 mM CaCl2, 100 mM KCl, 10 mM MOPS, pH 7.5, for 24 h. Radioactivity was determined by liquid scintillation counting. Northern blot analysis, histochemical staining for GUS activity and immunolocalization were performed as described (CITATION) . For northern blot, ∼15 µg RNA was loaded and blotted with a 32P-labelled CAS probe. For GUS staining, a genomic fragment of 1.5 kb in the promoter region of CAS was amplified by PCR with primers: 5′-GCCCGCGGTGTTTGTTTGTTATTGTTTTGGGTA and 5′-GGCTCGAGGGTTTCTCTCTGCCACACTT, and cloned into a GUS binary vector pBI101. Transgenic plants were generated using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and selected by kanamycin (CITATION) . Independent homozygous transformants carrying a single insertion in the T3 generation were analysed further. CAS antisense plants were generated similarly. For GFP-based analysis, 35S::CAS–GFP or 35S::GFP was transiently expressed in onion epidermal cells by bombardment (CITATION) . For immunolocalization, polyclonal antibodies were raised in rabbits using the purified N and C termini as the antigen. The leaf epidermal peels were placed on poly-l-lysine coated slides. Affinity-purified primary anti-CAS and fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated anti-rabbit secondary antibodies (Sigma) were diluted 1:10 and 1:200, respectively. Total proteins (10 µg) from Arabidopsis leaves were separated on SDS–PAGE, and incubated with anti-CAS antibody followed by alkaline phosphatase-conjugated anti-rabbit antibody (Sigma), and developed using NBT/BCIP substrate. The leaf homogenate was centrifuged at 13,000g, and the supernatant was further centrifuged at 80,000g to separate the soluble proteins (supernatant) and membrane-associated proteins (pellet). Wild-type and antisense plants were grown in the MS-based media containing MS minor salts (Sigma), 1% sucrose (Sigma), 1% agar (Becton Dickinson) and MS major salts (Sigma) with Ca2+ supplemented to 0.1 mM or 1 mM CaCl2. Each pot contained 50 ml media. For Ca2+-content analysis, shoots were digested with 70% nitric acid, and the total Ca2+ content was determined using an atomic absorption spectrometer. Data were analysed and presented as described (CITATION) .
