!~ABS~! Abscission is an active process that enables plants to shed unwanted organs. Because the purpose of the flower is to facilitate pollination, it often is abscised after fertilization. We have identified an Arabidopsis ethylene-sensitive mutant, inflorescence deficient in abscission (ida), in which floral organs remain attached to the plant body after the shedding of mature seeds, even though a floral abscission zone develops. The IDA gene, positioned in the genomic DNA flanking the single T-DNA present in the ida line, was identified by complementation. The gene encodes a small protein with an N-terminal signal peptide, suggesting that the IDA protein is the ligand of an unknown receptor involved in the developmental control of floral abscission. We have identified Arabidopsis genes, and cDNAs from a variety of plant species, that encode similar proteins, which are distinct from known ligands. IDA and the IDA-like proteins may represent a new class of ligands in plants.
!~RES~! In screening for mutants delayed in floral abscission, we identified the ida mutant in a collection of Arabidopsis lines transformed with the T-DNA vector pMHA2 (CITATION). In wild-type Arabidopsis flowers, the shedding of turgid flower petals, sepals, and stamens supervened soon after anthesis (Figure 1) (CITATION). At positions 2, 4, and 6 (counted from the first flower with visible white petals at the top of the inflorescence), the floral organs of wild-type as well as etr1-1 and ida plants were turgid and attached to the developing silique (Figure 1B). At position 10, the perianth and stamens had abscised from the wild-type flower. The etr1-1 mutant abscised its flowers first at position 16 (Figure 1B). By contrast, the mutant ida retained its floral parts indeterminately (past position 30; Figures 1A and 1C). After the shedding of mature seeds, the now completely dry, colorless, and transparent senesced floral parts of the mutant ida remained attached (Figure 1C). [[FIGURE]] Scanning electron microscopy was used to compare the morphology of wild-type petal AZ with that of ida and to discern possible changes in the petal AZ of ida (Figures 2A to 2J) after either forcible removal or natural abscission of the petals. At position 4, broken cells were revealed at the fracture plane of the petal AZ in the wild type and the ida mutant (Figures 2A and 2F). This was followed by the exposure of a flattened fracture plane at position 8 (Figures 2B and 2G), indicating the partial dissolution of the middle lamella in the petal AZ cells. At position 10, wild-type AZ cells started to show an initial rounded appearance (Figure 2C), whereas the fracture plane of ida still revealed only the flattened cavity (Figure 2H). The rounding and elongation of cells proceeded in the wild type, and cells were fully rounded by position 12 (Figure 2D). Although the cells of the fracture plane of ida seemed to follow a similar progression, these cells appeared to be more obscured by middle lamellar material and less rounded (Figure 2I) than wild-type cells at positions 10 and 12 (Figures 2C and 2D). At later stages, an increase in the number of broken cells was observed in ida (Figure 2J). These broken cells were highly similar to those seen in early positions and correlated with high breakstrength (Figures 2J and 2K; see below), indicating an incomplete dissolution of the middle lamella in AZ cells in ida. [[FIGURE]] To obtain a quantitative measure of the difference between the wild type and ida, the force needed to remove petals from the plant was measured using a stress transducer (CITATION). As shown in Figure 2K, the breakstrength of wild-type petals decreased rapidly from position 2, in agreement with the scanning electron micrographs at the different positions. At position 8, the breakstrength was not measurable, and the petals fell off at the slightest touch. The ida mutant initially showed a similar, but slightly delayed, breakstrength profile compared with the wild type. It is significant that at position 10 of the mutant, force still was needed for detachment, although the breakstrength approached zero. After position 12, the breakstrength increased again, in agreement with the increase in the number of broken cells observed. The oldest ida flowers on an inflorescence (position 32) had a breakstrength similar to that of the youngest flowers. In the ida mutant, no developmental processes other than floral abscission were affected. This is in contrast to the ethylene insensitive mutants etr1 and ein1, which in addition to a delay in floral abscission showed delayed leaf senescence, larger rosettes, a delay in bolting and flowering, and very low seed germination rates under a variety of environmental conditions compared with wild-type plants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To investigate whether there were additional differences between ida and the ethylene-insensitive mutants, we tested the ethylene sensitivity of ida. In contrast to etr1-1, the ida mutant was sensitive to ethylene (Figure 3). The “triple-response” assay has been used to identify mutants altered in ethylene synthesis, perception, and responses (CITATION). Seedlings of the ida mutant germinated on the natural precursor of ethylene, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (data not shown), or exposed to ethylene at 10 ppm (Figure 3A) displayed the same drastic morphological changes characteristic of wild-type seedlings (i.e., inhibition of root and hypocotyl elongation, radial swelling of the hypocotyl and root, and exaggeration in the curvature of the apical hook). Thus, in contrast to etr1-1 seedlings, ida seedlings seemed perfectly capable of perceiving and responding to ethylene. Similarly, incubation of mature plants in chambers with ethylene at 10 ppm resulted in wilting of rosettes and cauline leaves in wild-type and ida plants, whereas etr1-1 plants were unaffected by the treatment (Figure 3B). In wild-type plants, this level of ethylene also resulted in senescence and abscission of floral organs soon after the opening of the flower. In the ida plants, floral organs senesced but did not abscise (Figure 3C). Thus, except with regard to floral abscission, ida reacted as a wild-type plant to ethylene exposure. [[FIGURE]] To identify the genetic basis for the ida phenotype, the mutant was crossed to wild-type Arabidopsis. F1 plants from the cross did not show the phenotype, indicating that ida is controlled by a recessive gene. In the F2 generation, the number of wild-type and ida plants was consistent with the 3:1 ratio (37 wild type:11 ida; χ2 = 0.13, P > 0.7) that would be expected if the ida phenotype is the result of a homozygous recessive, monogenic mutation. The T-DNA of pMHA2 carries a marker gene (nptII) conferring kanamycin resistance (CITATION). All progeny plants displaying the ida phenotype were homozygous for the single T-DNA present in the ida mutant line (i.e., the progeny of ida plants were always 100% kanamycin resistant). The cosegregation of homozygosity of the T-DNA and the ida phenotype indicated that the T-DNA insertion caused the mutant phenotype. The plant DNA flanking the right border of the T-DNA insertion was cloned using inverse PCR (CITATION), whereas the other side was cloned by standard PCR with a T-DNA–specific primer and a genomic primer (see Methods). Sequencing of the cloned junctions revealed that the T-DNA was inserted on chromosome 1 between an annotated gene that encodes a putative protein with 10 LRRs (At1g68780) and a small, intronless gene (At1g68765) (Figure 4A). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether either of these genes was affected by the T-DNA insertion, we transformed ida mutant plants with two independent genomic fragments: one (2633 bp) covered the LRR gene, including 959 bp of upstream and 154 bp of downstream sequence; the other (2019 bp) started 8 bp downstream of the stop codon of the At1g68780 gene and ended 303 bp downstream of the At1g68765 open reading frame (Figure 4A). Fifty-nine and 58 independent transformants were generated for each construct, respectively. All of the transformants harboring the LRR gene displayed the mutant ida phenotype (Figure 4B), whereas 54 plants transformed with At1g68765 all showed a wild-type abscission pattern (Figure 4C). Because the small open reading frame with its upstream and downstream sequences can complement the mutant phenotype, we concluded that we had identified the IDA gene. A cDNA corresponding to the IDA gene, with a 98-bp 5′ untranslated region and a 205-bp 3′ untranslated region, was cloned recently. Therefore, the T-DNA in the ida mutant seems to be positioned in the promoter of the IDA gene (Figure 4A). Reverse transcriptase–mediated (RT) PCR on mRNA of flowers (positions 1 to 8) amplified the expected PCR fragment from wild-type but not from mutant tissue (Figure 4D), whereas ACTIN2-7, tested as a positive control, was amplified from both wild-type and ida first-strand cDNA templates (Figure 4D), and negative control experiments run without reverse transcriptase yielded no PCR products (data not shown). Thus, RT-PCR indicated that the T-DNA insertion had interfered with normal gene expression. To investigate the expression pattern of the wild-type IDA gene, a promoter fragment of 1419 bp was cloned in a T-DNA vector in front of the β-glucuronidase (GUS; uidA) gene (see Methods). Transformed Arabidopsis plants were investigated in a GUS assay for IDA:GUS reporter gene expression. Tissue from roots and all aerial parts of the plants was inspected, and expression was found to be confined exclusively to specific stages of flower development. An in-depth analysis was performed on selected T1 plants and their T2 siblings. These lines harbored multiple copies of the IDA:GUS construct, but no significant variation was found between the sublines. Developmental series of flowers were numbered corresponding to their positions on the inflorescence and stained for GUS activity (Figure 5A). Position 1 corresponded with anthesis, when carpels, anthers, and petals are of approximately similar lengths. IDA:GUS activity was absent in flowers from positions 1 to 4. At position 5, a strong GUS signal was detected in the floral organ AZ, concurrent with the decrease in petal breakstrength (Figure 5A). The specific AZ signal was maintained throughout the floral abscission process (Figure 5A). [[FIGURE]] GUS expression was restricted specifically to the AZ at the bases of all floral organs (filaments, petal, and sepals) at position 5. At mid-abscission stages (position 6), IDA:GUS expression was observed in the AZ of petals, sepals, and anther filaments on the plant body side (Figures 5A and 5D to 5F). In addition, both strong and weak expression were found in the outgrowths of the nectary (Figures 5D and 5F, respectively). IDA:GUS expression also was observed through position 10, although all floral organs were abscised (Figure 5B). At later stages, at floral position 15, where the seeds are close to maturity, a prominent GUS signal still was found, although it was more or less restricted to the outgrowths of the medial portion of the nectary (Figure 5C). During the course of abscission, the GUS signal appeared to spread toward the petal, sepal, and filament apices, probably associated with the vascular tissue and most likely attributable to spreading of the product of the GUS reaction rather than to promoter activity (Figures 5A and 5E to 5G). Together, the observed IDA:GUS expression pattern and timing are congruent with the phenotypic changes seen in the ida mutant. The IDA gene encodes a small protein of 77 amino acids with an N-terminal hydrophobic region predicted by SignalP software to act as a signal peptide (CITATION), whereas no transmembrane region was detected. To investigate whether the IDA protein was secreted, we bombarded onion cells with constructs containing translational fusions between the IDA cDNA, or the putative signal peptide, and the green fluorescent protein (GFP) (see Methods). Both the IDA:GFP protein (Figure 6A) and the signal peptide:GFP fusion protein (Figure 6B) gave high GFP signals at the perimeter of a single cell; additionally, a slightly weaker GFP signal was found around neighboring cells. It appears that the fusion proteins spread out between the adjacent cells. By contrast, the signals from the GFP protein on its own and GPF fused to Drosophila Heterochromatin Protein1 (HP1), a positive control for subcellular targeting, never were seen in clusters of cells (Figures 6C and 6D), indicating that the signal always was restricted to the bombarded cell. GFP alone was present in the cytoplasm and diffused also into the nucleus as a result of its small size, as reported previously (CITATION) (Figure 6C), whereas GFP:HP1 was found solely in the nucleus (Figure 6D). The subcellular localization assay suggests that the IDA and its signal peptide can export GFP through the secretory pathway of the bombarded cell to the extracellular (apoplastic) space, where it spreads to neighboring cells, and/or, assuming that several neighboring cells are transformed and express the fusion proteins, that IDA is localized to the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] The C-terminal 20 amino acids of the IDA protein was used in tBLASTn (Basic Local Alignment Search Tool) searches against plant EST collections, and IDA-LIKE (IDL) transcripts from eight different plant species, including one cDNA from Arabidopsis, were identified. These transcripts encode proteins that are similar to IDA—that is, they have predicted N-terminal signal sequences (using SignalP), similar pI values (ranging from 11.02 to 12.62; Table 1), and a conserved C-terminal signature (pv/iPpSa/gPSk/rk/rHN), which we have termed PIP (Figure 7A). Features of IDL Genes and cDNAs and Their Encoded Proteins [[FIGURE]] tBLASTn searches also were performed against the translated Arabidopsis genome. The hits found were inspected for short open reading frames encoding proteins with predicted signal peptides and similarity to IDA in the C-terminal end. This procedure led to the identification of four additional putative IDL genes encoding proteins of <100 amino acids that to date are unannotated (Figure 7A, Table 1). The putative encoded proteins also have high pI values (10.18 to 12.52; Table 1). The IDL proteins can be divided into two subclasses: AtIDL2 to AtIDL5 and the IDL1s from poplar, wheat, and maize have a conserved Gly residue very close to the C-terminal end that is lacking from the other proteins (Figure 7A). The 30 to 40 amino acids just after the signal peptide are less well conserved than the PIP motif. However, similarities are found in this region across species (e.g., AtIDL2 and AtIDL3 and the PtIDL1 of poplar; ZmIDL1 and TaIDL1 of maize and wheat; and the IDL1 proteins of lotus, soybean, and black locust). The expression pattern of the IDL mRNAs identified in the databases have not been investigated. However, the cDNA libraries they come from (e.g., pathogen-infected plants, petioles, and sapwood-heartwood transition zones; Table 1) indicate that IDL proteins may function in diverse environmental and developmental processes. To investigate whether the four unannotated putative Arabidopsis IDL genes were expressed, RT-PCR was performed on first-strand cDNA generated from mRNA of different tissues (Figure 7B). AtIDL1 also was included in our study. mRNA was isolated using magnetic oligo(dT) beads (see Methods), and the ACTIN primers used to control the quality and amount of first-strand cDNA amplified the expected fragment at similar levels from the six tissues tested (Figure 7B). Negative control experiments performed for all primer pairs without reverse transcriptase yielded no PCR products (results shown for ACTIN; Figure 7B). The AtIDL1 cDNA clone was isolated from an inflorescence and root library; accordingly, the transcript was amplified from roots. AtIDL2 was expressed mainly in the aerial parts of the plant (i.e., rosette leaves, buds, flowers, and seedlings), but weak PCR fragments also were detectable in roots and mature seeds. AtIDL3 was expressed only in flowers and seedlings. AtIDL4 and AtIDL5 have a similar stretch of amino acids between the signal peptide and the PIP motif (Figure 7A), and these genes showed similar expression profiles (i.e., they were both expressed in buds, flowers, and seedlings), but AtIDL4 also was expressed in roots. At best, the RT-PCR method is semiquantitative, but given the even amplification of the ACTIN2-7 transcript in all tissues, our experiment suggests that the five AtIDL genes have expression patterns distinct from that of IDA, which is detected only in AZ (Figure 5). Thus, the encoded proteins are suggested to be involved in other developmental processes than is IDA.
!~MM~! Wild-type (C24) and mutant Arabidopsis thaliana plants were analyzed for ethylene responsiveness by treating germinated seedlings with 10 ppm ethylene for 3 days in the dark (CITATION) and gassing mature plants with 10 ppm ethylene for 48 h in a 16-h-day/8-h-night cycle. Individual flowers were fixed in 4% glutaraldehyde (w/v) in 0.5 M potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.5, rinsed four times in buffer, and then dehydrated in a graded ethanol series. Samples were critical point dried in liquid CO2 and mounted on steel plates covered with double-stick tape and sputter-coated with gold palladium. Samples were viewed at 10K accelerating voltage on a Hitachi S-570 scanning electron microscope (Tokyo, Japan). The right border junction was cloned using inverse PCR (CITATION) with gus 78 (5′-CACGGGTTGGGGTTTCT-3′) and gus 330 (5′-TGCGGTCACTCATTACGG-3′) as a first primer set and gus 64L (5′-TTTCTACAGGACGGACCAT-3′) and gus 342 (5′-TTACGGCAAAGTGTGGGTC-3′) as a nested primer set. After sequencing of the amplified fragment, a genomic primer (ida49; 5′-GGTGTTTCTACTATGCGTGTG-3′) and a left border–specific primer (5074+; 5′-ATTTGTCGTTTTATC- AAAATGTAC-3′) were used in PCR to amplify the other junction. Wild-type (C24) and transgenic Arabidopsis plants were cultivated in growth chambers at 22°C for 8 h of dark and 16 h of light (100 μE·m−2·s−1). Two fragments were used for a complementation test. A fragment encompassing the At1g68765 gene, amplified from genomic wild-type DNA using the primers 5′-GCTCTAGATGACCTATTTGAGAAAGACGAATG-3′ and 5′-TCCCCCGGGTTCTGAATCAAAGGGTTTGTG-3′, which have restriction endonuclease sites for XbaI and SmaI (in boldface), respectively, at the 5′ ends, was inserted between the XbaI and SmaI sites of the Ti vector pGSC1704 (kindly provided by the Laboratory of Genetics, Flanders Interuniversity Institute for Biotechnology, Gent, Belgium), which has a hygromycin resistance gene within the T-DNA. A second fragment encompassing At1g68780 was amplified with primers with XbaI sites at the ends (5′-GCTCTAGATTTTTGAAGAAAGGGACAGTTG-3′ and 5′-GCTCTAGAGAACCGACCGTATCATACATTG-3′) and cloned into the XbaI site of pGSC1704. ida mutant plants were transformed using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated floral dip method (CITATION), and transformants were selected by germinating seeds on plates containing 10 μg/mL hygromycin. PCR with construct-specific primers was used to confirm that resistant plants harbored the intended T-DNAs. mRNA was isolated from Arabidopsis tissues using magnetic oligo(dT) beads (GenoPrep mRNA beads; GenoVision, Qiagen, Valencia, CA) and treated with 1 unit of DNaseI (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) per microgram of mRNA for 15 min at room temperature before first-strand cDNA synthesis with reverse transcriptase from Avian myeloblastosis virus (Promega) according to the manufacturer's suggestions. Negative controls were used in experiments in which the reverse transcriptase was omitted. The following gene-specific primers were used for PCR amplification from the cDNA: for IDA, 5′-GAAGAAAAAAAACATTGACTCCA-3′ and 5′-TGGCCGTAATGACCTTAAAC-3′; for ACTIN2-7, 5′-GCTGGTTTTGCTGGTGATGATG-3′ and 5′-TAGAACTGGGTGCTCCTCAGGG-3′ or 5′-CCGCAAGATCAAGACGAAGGATAGC-3′ and 5′-CCCTGAGGAGCACCCAGTTCTACTC-3′ spanning intron 2; for AtIDL1, 5′-AATAGCTAAATTAGTGTCTCCTCCTC-3′ and 5′-AACGTTCCAACCGAGATATTAC-3′; for AtIDL2, 5′-CGTCTCGAAACCAAAGATCAAG-3′ and 5′-GGAGAAGATCGATGCCAAC-3′; for AtIDL3, 5′-TTTCGTGAAGGACCAGAAGTTG-3′ and 5′-CTCGAAGCCACCGATCAAG-3′; for AtIDL4, 5′-CGTCCACATTATTGGAGAAGAAG-3′ and 5′-CAACAAGGCTTGAATACCAATG-3′; and for AtIDL5, 5′-TCATGGACATCTATGGGAGTTAG-3′ and 5′-GGTGTTCTCATGGAGGATTGG-3′. For IDA, ACTIN2-7, AtIDL1, AtIDL3, and AtIDL5, PCR was run for 30 cycles; for AtIDL2, AtIDL4, and ACTIN2-7 using the primers spanning intron 2, PCR was run for 35 cycles. The IDA:GUS construct was made using Gateway cloning technology (Invitrogen). The pPZP211G vector is a pPZP Agrobacterium binary vector (CITATION) with a spectinomycin bacterial selectable marker, nptII, as a plant selectable marker and a promoterless GUS gene with a nos terminator inserted between the SmaI and EcoRI sites of the polylinker. This vector was converted to a Gateway vector by inserting the C.1 Gateway cassette into the SmaI site in front of the GUS (uidA) gene using the Gateway vector conversion system (Invitrogen), thus generating the Gateway vector pPZP211G-GAWI. A 1419-bp IDA promoter fragment was amplified by PCR with the primers proA (5′-TTTTCAATTTTGTTATTGCAT-3′) and proB (5′-ATTTGGTAGTCAATGTTTTTT- TTC-3′) with additional Gateway att sequences at the 5′ ends introduced into the pDONR201 Gateway entry vector and thereafter recombined into the pPZP211G-GAWI vector, generating the construct pPZP IDA:GUS. The construct was transferred to the A. tumefaciens strain C58C1 pGV2260 and used to transform Arabidopsis (ecotype C24) as described. Transformants were selected on CITATION medium with 50 μg/mL kanamycin. PCR with construct-specific primers was used to confirm that kanamycin-resistant plants were true transformants. GUS staining, postfixation, and whole-mount clearing preparations of flowers and siliques from various positions along the inflorescence were performed as described (CITATION) and inspected with a Zeiss Axioplan2 imaging microscope equipped with differential interference contrast optics and a cooled Axiocam camera imaging system (Jena, Germany). For onion epidermis nuclear localization assays (CITATION), a cDNA-GFP fusion vector was made using Gateway cloning technology (Invitrogen). The pKEx-327 vector (CITATION) was converted to a Gateway vector (pKEGAW-smGFP) by inserting the C.1 Gateway cassette into a blunted SalI site using the Gateway vector conversion system (Invitrogen). The coding region and the region encoding the amino acids encompassing the putative signal peptide, both with a 96-bp 5′ untranslated region, were amplified with the primers idaGFPA (5′-TTATTCATTTCATTCATAAGACCCTTC-3′) plus idaGFPD (5′-ATGAGGAAGAGAGTTAACAAAAGAG-3′) and idaGFPA plus idaGFPE (5′-ACAAGAACTACTCGCCGC-3′), respectively, with additional Gateway att sequences at the 5′ end, and recombined into pKEGAW-smGFP so that the IDA coding region or signal peptide would be expressed as fusion proteins with the GFP at the C-terminal end. A GFP fusion construct with Heterochomatin Protein1 from Drosophila melanogaster in the pKEx-327 vector was used as a control for subcellular localization. Database searches were performed using BLASTP, tBLASTn, and PSI-BLAST (Basic Local Alignment Search Tool) (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/). The presence of an N-terminal signal peptide was investigated using SignalP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/SignalP/). Amino acid sequence alignments were created using CLUSTAL X 1.8 (http://www-igbmc.u-strasbg.fr/BioInfo/ClustalX) with default parameters and manual adjustments with GeneDoc 2.6.001 (http://www.psc.edu/biomed/genedoc/). Upon request, materials integral to the findings presented in this publication will be made available in a timely manner to all investigators on similar terms for noncommercial research purposes. To obtain materials, please contact Reidunn B. Aalen, reidunn.aalen{at}bio.uio.no. The accession number for the IDA cDNA is AY087883.
