!~ABS~! Seed development in angiosperms initiates after double fertilization, leading to the formation of a diploid embryo and a triploid endosperm. The active repression of precocious initiation of certain aspects of seed development in the absence of fertilization requires the Polycomb group proteins MEDEA (MEA), FERTILIZATION‐INDEPENDENT ENDOSPERM (FIE) and FERTILIZATION‐INDEPENDENT SEED2. Here we show that the Arabidopsis WD‐40 domain protein MSI1 is present together with MEA and FIE in a 600 kDa complex and interacts directly with FIE. Mutant plants heterozygous for msi1 show a seed abortion ratio of 50% with seeds aborting when the mutant allele is maternally inherited, irrespective of a paternal wild‐type or mutant MSI1 allele. Further more, msi1 mutant gametophytes initiate endosperm development in the absence of fertilization at a high penetrance. After pollination, only the egg cell becomes fertilized, the central cell starts dividing prior to fertilization, resulting in the formation of seeds containing embryos surrounded by diploid endosperm. Our results establish that MSI1 has an essential function in the correct initiation and progression of seed development.
!~RES~! To analyse the function of Arabidopsis MSI1 we searched several collections of T‐DNA insertion mutants for a disruption of the MSI1 gene and identified one candidate in the SAIL collection (CITATION). Genomic DNA blots revealed a complex insertion of two T‐DNAs at the same locus. PCR analysis and sequencing confirmed the insertion into the second exon of the MSI1 gene (data not shown). Heterozygous plants developed normally from the seedling stage to maturity. The T‐DNA insertion allele in Arabidopsis MSI1 was termed msi1 and was used in all subsequent experiments. We were unable to obtain homozygous msi1 plants, suggesting that seed development is defective in MSI1/msi1 mutants. In contrast with wild‐type plants that contained only normally developing seeds, MSI1/msi1 siliques had aborted seeds that appeared brown and shrunken (FIG-REF). Quantification of seed abortion revealed that 50% of the seeds from heterozygous msi1 mutants aborted, in contrast with less than 1% abortion observed in the wild type (Table I). Arabidopsis MSI1 was previously reported to participate in CAF‐1 (CITATION), but we found no striking overlapping phenotypes between the Arabidopsis CAF‐1 mutants fasciata1 (fas1) and fasciata2 (fas2) and MSI1 co‐suppression plants (CITATION). Therefore we assayed seed abortion in fas1 and fas2, but, in contrast with MSI1/msi1 plants, seed development was not impaired in the CAF‐1 mutants (Table I). [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] A single‐locus recessive embryo‐lethal mutant is expected to give rise to 25% aborted seeds. However, seed abortion in MSI1/msi1 occurred at a ratio of 50%. Because 50% seed abortion is a strong indication for a defect that is under female gametophytic control, we performed reciprocal crosses between MSI1/msi1 and wild‐type plants. A paternally derived mutant allele (msi1 pollen) did not impair seed development, while the msi1 phenotype could not be complemented by fertilization of msi1 mutant gametophytes with wild‐type pollen (FIG-REF and Table I). These observations suggest that the fate of seeds is determined only by the maternally derived MSI1 allele. Seeds derived from ovules with an msi1 gametophyte (hereafter referred to as msi1 seeds) abort regardless of the paternal genotype. This hypothesis predicts that the msi1 mutant allele can be transmitted only paternally. We tested for the presence of the msi1 allele in the progeny of selfed msi1 heterozygous plants and of reciprocal crosses between MSI1/msi1 and wild‐type plants. The results shown in Table II confirm this hypothesis. [[TABLE]] T‐DNA insertion mutagenesis can also result in mutations that are not tagged by the inserted T‐DNA (CITATION). Therefore we tested whether the observed msi1 phenotype is indeed caused by the insertion into the MSI1 gene. Plants heterozygous for msi1 were transformed with the MSI1 cDNA under control of the endogenous MSI1 promoter consisting of a 2 kbp DNA fragment upstream of the translation start codon. Two randomly chosen transgenic lines showed less seed abortion than the parental MSI1/msi1 mutant. We selected a transgenic line with a single insert of the transgene (msi1 compl‐1, data not shown) for further analysis. As msi1 is a gametophytic maternal effect mutant, the expected ratio of aborted seeds in an MSI1/msi1 plant is 50%. An unlinked single copy MSI1 transgene will segregate randomly in the gametes such that half of the msi1 seeds are expected to contain the transgene rescuing the msi1 phenotype. This will reduce the ratio of aborted seeds to 25% (see below). As expected, the fraction of aborting seeds dropped from 49.3% in MSI1/msi1 to 26.4% in MSI1/msi1 compl‐1 (Table I). Because seed abortion can be complemented by an intact MSI1 cDNA, we conclude that this phenotype of MSI1/msi1 plants is indeed caused by loss of MSI1 function. We analyzed the morphology of mutant and wild‐type seeds in cleared whole‐mount and semi‐thin sectioned specimens to characterize the defects of msi1 mutant seeds in more detail (FIG-REF). Mutant msi1 seeds were developmentally delayed compared with their wild‐type siblings. The developmental arrest occurred at different developmental stages and was highly variable among different siliques. Thus, when about half of the seeds of MSI1/msi1 plants contained transition or heart‐stage embryos (FIG-REF and FIG-REF), about 36% (n = 361) of the seeds contained preglobular and globular stage embryos (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). The remaining seeds aborted shortly after fertilization without the formation of any embryo. In contrast with the well‐organized structure of preglobular embryos in wild‐type seeds (FIG-REF and FIG-REF), delayed preglobular seeds in MSI1/msi1 siliques often contained abnormal embryos with irregular orientation of cell division planes. In fact, there was no recognizable separation between the embryo proper and the suspensor (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Very few msi1 embryos continued development until the heart stage. However, msi1 heart‐stage embryos showed overproliferation and the seeds contained an enlarged chalazal endosperm (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). When developing wild‐type seeds had reached the late torpedo stage (FIG-REF and FIG-REF), the majority of the mutant siblings were already aborted and only very few contained overproliferated heart‐stage embryos. Consequently, seed development is initiated in msi1 female gametophytes but suffers from early defects in embryo and endosperm development, eventually leading to seed abortion. [[FIGURE]] MSI1 is strongly expressed in floral buds and flowers (CITATION), but seed abortion in the absence of an intact maternal MSI1 allele suggested expression of MSI1 in fruits also. RT‐PCR analysis demonstrated that MSI1 is strongly expressed in siliques during wild‐type seed development from 0 to 4 DAP (FIG-REF). In order to characterize the tissue‐specific MSI1 expression, we performed in situ hybridization experiments (FIG-REF). We obtained a strong signal with the antisense RNA probe in both the female gametophyte and the sporophytic tissue of the ovules (e.g. in integuments). After fertilization, the strongest expression was detected in developing embryos. We also observed specific hybridization signals in pollen sacs and pollen (data not shown). Together, these results support the view that MSI1 has a pivotal role in gametophyte and embryo development. [[FIGURE]] Similar to msi1, the maternal effect mutants mea, fie and fis2 also cause 50% seed abortion. Since MEA and FIE interact in vitro and in vivo (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we tested whether MSI1 is also a subunit of the MEA–FIE complex. In Drosophila, E(Z) and ESC are subunits of a large complex with a molecular mass of about 500–600 kDa (CITATION; CITATION). In C.elegans, however, homologues of E(Z) and ESC are found in a complex with a molecular weight of only 255 kDa (CITATION). The molecular weight and subunit composition of the Arabidopsis MEA–FIE complex is currently unknown. Therefore we investigated the MEA–FIE complex using size exclusion chromatography (SEC) of protein extracts from Arabidopsis flowers and young siliques and tested the fractions on protein blots. The antisera used in these experiments had previously been shown to recognize the corresponding antigen and do not cross‐react with other proteins of the same size (CITATION; CITATION). FIG-REF shows that MSI1, MEA and FIE co‐elute at a molecular weight of about 600 kDa, suggesting that they are part of a complex similar to the PcG complex in Drosophila. Interestingly, a large amount of FIE, but not MEA and MSI1, could also be detected in a monomeric form. To confirm that MSI1 is also a subunit of the MEA–FIE complex, we performed immunoprecipitation experiments with Arabidopsis nuclear extracts. Both anti‐MEA and anti‐FIE, but not the preimmune sera, coprecipitated MSI1 (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] To characterize the protein–protein interactions between MSI1, MEA and FIE in more detail, an MSI1–GST fusion protein was expressed in Escherichia coli and incubated with MEA or FIE proteins before binding to gluthathione beads (FIG-REF). The binding assay revealed that MSI1 can efficiently bind to FIE, but not to MEA, when it is presented as a single binding partner. These results suggest that MSI1 and FIE interact directly in vivo, but that the interaction of MEA and MSI1 requires either post‐translational modifications of at least one partner or additional proteins like FIE to mediate the interaction. Both mea and fie belong to the fis class of mutants, and the current model suggests that the MEA–FIE complex prevents seed development in the absence of a fertilization signal (for review see CITATION). If MSI1 is an integral part of the MEA–FIE complex, we would also expect autonomous endosperm or seed development in MSI1/msi1 mutants. Floral buds of wild‐type and MSI1/msi1 mutant plants were emasculated and compared with manually pollinated gynoecia. Pollinated gynoecia of wild‐type and MSI1/msi1 mutant plants were indistinguishable after 6 days and reached a length of about 13 mm. In contrast, after 6 days without pollination, gynoecia of wild‐type plants were only 2–3 mm long, whereas in MSI1/msi1 mutant plants unpollinated gynoecia formed siliques of 10 mm (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Since silique elongation in the absence of fertilization suggests autonomous endosperm and seed development we investigated the developing seeds in MSI1/msi1 plants in more detail. FIG-REF shows that unfertilized wild‐type ovules did not develop (FIG-REF), whereas many unfertilized msi1 ovules initiated seed development (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Optical and semi‐thin sections through such fertilization‐independent seeds revealed the presence of a multinuclear endosperm but no embryo. Sometimes embryo‐like structures could be observed at the micropylar end of the embryo sac (FIG-REF). However, in contrast with embryonic cells that contain small vacuoles, these cells were highly vacuolated, suggesting that they originated from the endosperm. Only 50% of the ovules carry a mutant msi1 allele and thus can be expected to initiate fertilization‐independent seed development. Quantification revealed that 41.2% of the ovules displayed the FIS phenotype, demonstrating a penetrance of more than 80%. This is significantly higher than the reported penetrance of 15–20% in the mea mutants (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The high penetrance of the FIS phenotype in MSI1/msi1 plants suggests that endosperm development fails to arrest and starts without fertilization even after pollination. We tested this hypothesis by performing ploidy analysis using flow cytometry of nuclei from developing seeds (FIG-REF). This assay was previously used to demonstrate that endoreduplication produces 6C and 12C nuclei in the endosperm and 4C, 8C and 16C nuclei in the embryos of several species (CITATION). We observed up to 40% 3C or 6C nuclei derived from the endosperm in wild‐type seeds at 6 DAP. As expected, seeds developing in unpollinated MSI1/msi1 siliques did not yield any 3C or 6C signal, demonstrating that these seeds contain only nuclei derived from the diploid central cell. Surprisingly, 3C or 6C signals were also largely absent in msi1 mutant seeds derived from pollinated gynoecia. The small percentage of 3C and 6C nuclei detected in some preparations (compare FIG-REF, bottom, and FIG-REF) suggests that double fertilization can occur in a small fraction of msi1 seeds. Because we observed embryo formation in msi1 mutant seeds only after pollination, fertilization of the egg cell appears to be required for development of the embryo but not the endosperm. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plants were grown in Conviron growth chambers with mixed cold inflorescent and incandescent light (150 μmol/m2/s, 23°C) under long days (16 h of light). Seeds of Columbia and Landsberg erecta wild‐type accessions and of fas1‐1 and fas2‐1 (CITATION; CITATION) mutants were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC On‐Line Catalogue at http://nasc.nott.ac.uk/home.html). To complement the MSI1/msi1 mutant, a 2000 bp fragment upstream of the MSI1 start codon was amplified by PCR using primers CGGGATCCAGGTTTGGAATCGACCAAGA and TGTCGACCGAT GTCTTTGTTATTCCCG. The MSI1 cDNA was amplified using primers CGGTCGACATGGGGAAAGACGAAGAGGAA and GACCATGGA AAGAAGCTTTTGATGGTTCTTC, and MSI1 promoter and cDNA were inserted into a modified pCAMBIA1380 vector. Heterozygous msi1 plants were transformed by floral dip and transgenic plants were selected on hygromycin. T1 plants were assayed for complementation of seed abortion and several complementing lines were obtained. After performing DNA blots with an HPT probe, we chose a line with a single insert for further analysis (msi1 compl.‐1) RNA was extracted using Trizol (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) according to the manufacturer's instructions. For RT‐PCR analysis, 1 μg total RNA was treated with DNase I. Half of the DNA‐free RNA (0.5 μg) was reverse transcribed using an oligodT primer and MMLV reverse transcriptase (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA), while the remaining RNA was incubated without reverse transcriptase. Aliquots of the generated cDNA, which equalled 50 ng total RNA, were used as template for PCR with gene‐specific primers AtMSI1‐F (GCACCGCTCTTCACACATTTG) and AtMSI1‐R (TCGATCCTGCTAAGGTCCCAA) or GAPDH‐F (TTCTTGGCACCAGCTTCAAT) and GAPDH‐R (CTCCCTTGGAA GGAGCTAGG). In situ hybridization was performed as described (CITATION) with modifications. For sense and antisense 11‐digoxigenin‐UTP‐labelled probes, a plasmid pKS (Stratagene) containing a 450 bp fragment (5′ end of the MSI1 cDNA) was linearized with restriction enzymes cutting in the polylinker (BamHI and HindIII, respectively) and 1 μg was used for probe synthesis. Mature flowers and siliques of Arabidopsis thaliana wild‐type plants were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde and embedded in Paraplast Plus (Sigma). Sections 10 μm thick were cut using a Leica microtome (Leica RM 2145) and mounted on ProbeOnPlus slides (Fischer Biotech). Sections were digested with proteinase K for 30 min at 37°C, treated with acetic acid anhydride, dried in ethanol and then hybridized with about 40 ng of DIG‐labelled probes per slide overnight at 55°C. After washing with 0.2× SSC at 55°C, the slides were processed for detection of the DIG antigen. This involved blocking with DIG‐blocking reagent and bovine serum albumin, followed by incubation with an anti‐DIG antibody conjugated to alkaline phosphatase (Roche). After washing with blocking reagent, the immunological detection was performed by incubation in NBT and X‐phosphate for periods of 16 to 18 h. Reactions were stopped with TE buffer 10 mM (pH 8.0) and mounted in TE/glycerol (v/v) for microscope analysis. Material was fixed in FAA (3.7% formaldehyde, 5% acetic acid, 50% ethanol) overnight at 4°C and embedded in Technovit 7100 resin (Kulzer, Wahrheim, Germany). Sections 5 μm thick were stained with Toluidine blue and observed using an Axioplan 2 microscope (Zeiss, Jena, Germany). Alternatively, tissues were cleared with chloralhydrate after fixation in ethanol–acetic acid (9:1) and observed under differential interference contrast (DIC) optics. Images were recorded with an Axiocam HRC CCD camera (Zeiss, Jena, Germany) and edited with ZeissVision software. Inflorescences (3 g) were harvested and immersed in 30 ml of Buffer 1 [1 M hexylene glycol, 10 mM PIPES pH 7.0, 10 mM MgCl2, 0.2% Triton X100, 5 mM β‐mercaptoethanol, 1 μM ZnSO4, 0.8 mM phenyl‐methylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF), 1× complete Protease Inhibitors (PI) (Roche)]. The tissue was homogenized using a Polytron and then filtered through 500 μm and 50 μm meshes. The solution was centrifuged (2000g) for 10 min and the pellet was resuspended in 15 ml of Buffer 2 (0.5 M hexylene glycol, 10 mM PIPES pH 7.0, 10 mM MgCl2, 0.2% Triton X100, 5 mM β‐mercaptoethanol, 0.8 mM PMSF, 1× PI). After centrifugation (3000g) for 10 min, the pellet was resuspended in 500 μl of Buffer 3 (110 mM KCl, 15 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 5 mM MgCl2, 1 μM ZnSO4, 1 mM dithiothreitol, 1× PI). Then, 50 μl of 4 M ammonium sulfate solution was added slowly and the solution was rocked on ice for 30 min. The solution was dialysed against NLB, and dialysed extracts (200 μl) were loaded onto a 14 ml Bio‐SEC‐250 column (Bio‐Rad) and eluted with Buffer 3 at a flow rate of 0.5 ml/min. Fractions (200 μl) were collected and precipitated with acetone. The precipitate was resuspended in SDS sample buffer and analyzed on protein blots using anti‐MEA, anti‐FIE (CITATION) and anti‐MSI1 (CITATION; CITATION) antisera. Anti‐MEA and anti‐FIE antibodies were cross‐linked to protein A agarose as described previously (CITATION). Nuclei were isolated as described above and washed with Buffer 2. Nuclei were dissolved in 300 μl of Buffer 4 (50 mM Tris pH 7.5, 10 mM EDTA, 1% SDS, 1× PI) and the extract was diluted 10‐fold with Buffer 5 (1.1% Triton X100, 1.2 mM EDTA, 16.7 mM Tris pH 7.5, 167 mM NaCl, 1× PI). Extracts were precleared for 1 h with protein A beads. Antibodies coupled to protein A beads (20 μl) were added to 700 μl nuclear extract and incubated under rotation for 4 h at 4°C. Immunocomplexes were washed four times with 1 ml of Buffer 6 (10 mM Tris pH 7.5, 1 mM EDTA, 150 mM NaCl, 1% Triton X100, 0.5% NP 40, 1× PI) and eluted by boiling with sample buffer. The full‐length MSI1 coding sequence was cloned into the pGEX‐4T expression vector (Amersham). Escherischia coli strains harbouring the pGEX‐MSI1 or pGEX plasmids were grown overnight in 2× YT medium at 37°C. Cultures were diluted 1:100 into fresh medium and grown until OD600 = 0.8 followed by the addition of isopropyl‐β‐d‐thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) to 1 mM. After induction for 6 h at 28°C the cells were pelleted and resuspended in BB (20 mM Tris pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% Triton X100, 1 μM ZnSO4, 1 mM PMSF, 1× PI). Lysozyme was added to 2 mg/ml and cells were lysed by incubation for 20 min on ice. After a brief sonication the solution was centrifuged (20 000g) for 10 min, and aliquots of the supernatant were frozen in liquid nitrogen. Expression of FIE protein using the pRSET‐FIE plasmid was as previously described (CITATION). pASK‐MEA contains the full‐length MEA cDNA in pASK‐IBA3 (Institut für Bioanalytik GmbH). Bacterial cells containing pASK‐MEA were grown under similar conditions to those described for pGEX‐MSI1. Expression was induced by adding anhydrotetracyclin to 0.2 μg/ml. After 6 h of induction, cells were pelleted and lysed as described above. Equal volumes of extract containing FIE or MEA were combined with extracts containing GST‐MSI1 or GST and incubated under rotation for 2 h. Then, 100 μl of glutathione beads were added and incubation continued for 40 min. After six washes with BB, bound proteins were eluted with SDS sample buffer and analyzed on protein blots using anti‐Xpress antibodies (Invitrogen) for detection of Xpress‐FIE or anti‐MEA antibodies. Ploidy analysis was performed as described (CITATION). About 50 seeds were isolated from siliques, crushed with a pestle in microfuge tubes containing 400 μl nuclear extraction buffer (Partec, Münster, Germany), incubated for 30 min on ice, filtered through 30 μm mesh, mixed with 1 ml nuclear staining buffer (Partec), incubated on ice for a further 10 min and analyzed with a Partec Ploidy Analyser. For quantification, results of four to six independent preparations were averaged.
