!~ABS~! In addition to proton-pumping complex I, plant mitochondria contain several type II NAD(P)H dehydrogenases in the electron transport chain. The extra enzymes allow the nonenergy-conserving electron transfer from cytoplasmic and matrix NAD(P)H to ubiquinone. We have investigated the type II NAD(P)H dehydrogenase gene families in Arabidopsis. This model plant contains two and four genes closely related to potato (Solanum tuberosum) genes nda1 and ndb1, respectively. A novel homolog, termed ndc1, with a lower but significant similarity to potato nda1 and ndb1, is also present. All genes are expressed in several organs of the plant. Among the nda genes, expression of nda1, but not nda2, is dependent on light and circadian regulation, suggesting separate roles in photosynthesis-associated and other respiratory NADH oxidation. Genes from all three gene families encode proteins exclusively targeted to mitochondria, as revealed by expression of green fluorescent fusion proteins and by western blotting of fractionated cells. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that ndc1 affiliates with cyanobacterial type II NADH dehydrogenase genes, suggesting that this gene entered the eukaryotic cell via the chloroplast progenitor. The ndc1 should then have been transferred to the nucleus and acquired a signal for mitochondrial targeting of the protein product. Although they are of different origin, the nda, ndb, and ndc genes carry an identical intron position.
!~RES~! Database screening of the Arabidopsis genome reveals seven nuclear-encoded reading frames (Table I) with highest similarity to type II NAD(P)H dehydrogenases of e.g. S. cerevisiae and E. coli (CITATION; CITATION) and potato NDA1 and NDB1 (CITATION). The deduced protein sequences are conserved throughout the complete reading frames, including the two conserved nucleotide-binding motifs. The Arabidopsis homologs group into three families: NDA (two genes), NDB (four genes), and NDC (one gene). At-NDA1 and At-NDA2 are both 78% identical at the amino acid level to potato NDA1 (CITATION). The At-NDB1 and At-NDB2–4 show highest sequence identity, 70% and 59% to 63%, respectively, to potato NDB1. The unique EF hand motif domain of potato NDB1 (CITATION) is conserved in all four At-NDB homologs (Fig. 1). A much lower sequence similarity is seen to the EF hand domain in the N. crassa NDE1 homolog and a corresponding domain found in Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium yoelli homologs (Fig. 1), although these domains are located in similar places in the reading frame. The seventh Arabidopsis type II NAD(P)H dehydrogenase homolog, At-NDC1, shows only approximately 25% amino acid sequence identity to potato NDA1 and NDB1, demonstrating its separation from the NDA and NDB families. In rice (Oryza sativa), two nda-type genes and one ndc-gene (Fig. 2) were found. In addition, expressed sequence tag (EST) clones (CB657084, CB65708,5 and CA767183) were found, more than 70% identical to St-NDB1 in overlaps of deduced amino acid sequence longer than 200 residues. This indicates that all three gene families are present in dicotyledons and monocotyledons. In general, positions of conserved motifs in Arabidopsis NDA, NDB, and NDC protein sequences are consistent with those in bacterial, yeast, and potato NADH dehydrogenase homologs reported previously (CITATION). Apart from this group of seven homologs, two putative genes in Arabidopsis (Munich Information Center for Protein Sequences codes At5g22140 and At3g44190) display some similarity to type II NAD(P)H dehydrogenases. However, the reading frames of At5g22140 and At3g44190 are significantly shorter, 365 and 367 residues, respectively, and unlike the other plant homologs, do not contain any putative domains for organellar targeting.    Type II NAD(P)H dehydrogenase genes of Arabidopsis    [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] The seven identified Arabidopsis protein sequences were compared with homologous sequences from bacteria, fungi, and plants by phylogenetic analysis (Fig. 2). Distance and maximum parsimony phylogenetic approaches were tested, substantially giving identical results. The plant entries group into three distinct subgroups, suggesting that there are three families (nda, ndb, and ndc) of type II NAD(P)H dehydrogenase genes present in plants. While the NDA and NDB sequences of plants are more closely related to the fungal and protist sequences, a clustering of At-NDC1 and the rice NDC homolog with cyanobacterial proteins is supported by 100% bootstrap values (Fig. 2). This indicates that the ndc genes of plants originate from cyanobacteria and most likely entered the plant cell with the chloroplast progenitor. The two At-NDA proteins cluster together, and like the St-NDA1, they are most closely related to one of the rice homologs. The plant NDA family is most similar to a homolog in T. brucei. The N. crassa NDE1 and the P. falciparum and P. yoelli homologs contain a protein segment corresponding to the plant NDB EF hand domain (Fig. 1). However, a closer relationship between these homologs is not supported by the phylogenetic tree, independent of whether the common domain is included in the analysis or not (Fig. 2). The gene structures were compared for the Arabidopsis type II NAD(P)H dehydrogenase genes (Fig. 3). For nda1, ndb1, and ndb2, complete cDNA sequences were available in the database. For ndc1, a partial cDNA (AY056424) and two ESTs (AU238932 and AV560836) were found that determined the location of all splicing sites. However, the cDNA clone and one EST contain residual introns that in each case are spliced in at least one other clone. Amplification of the complete reading frame by RT-PCR from isolated RNA and restriction of the product with HincII and DraII generated only cDNA fragments consistent with the complete splicing of all introns (results not shown). All intron positions and most intron lengths are conserved between the two nda genes (Fig. 3). Within the ndb family, most intron positions are conserved. The ndb4 gene, however, appears to have lost several introns present in ndb1 and ndb2 and shown or predicted present in ndb3. One intron position is identical in all three families (Fig. 3). This position corresponds to the center of a highly conserved 12 residues protein segment immediately downstream of the EF hand domain of the NDB proteins. All intron positions in the At-nda genes and At-ndc1 are conserved in the rice nda499 and ndc549, respectively, with one additional intron being present in ndc549. The rice nda586 only contains two introns, corresponding to introns 2 and 4 in the At-nda genes. The conservation of gene structures within each gene family provides additional support to the phylogenetic analysis.   [[FIGURE]] Potato NDA1 was shown previously to be tightly bound to the internal surface of the inner mitochondrial membrane, whereas NDB1 is loosely attached to the external side (CITATION; CITATION). Similar to potato NDA1 and NDB1, all Arabidopsis homologs contain N-terminal domains potentially specifying intracellular targeting (not shown). To investigate the cellular localization of the type II NAD(P)H dehydrogenases in Arabidopsis, mitochondria were purified from leaves by Suc gradient centrifugation. The Suc gradient efficiently separated mitochondria as evaluated by cytochrome c oxidase activity with a peak in fraction 6, from the heavier chloroplasts where chlorophyll peaked in fraction 3 (Fig. 4). Catalase, a marker for peroxisomes, had a wide distribution in the gradient with 4 to 6 μmol min–1 mL–1 in fractions 1 to 9 and less than 2 in fractions 10 to 14 (results not shown). Aliquots of the Suc gradient were subjected to western-blot analyses using antibodies against NDA1 and NDB1 from potato, the NAD9 subunit of wheat complex I, and malate dehydrogenase (Fig. 4). The distribution of malate dehydrogenase deviated from cytochrome c oxidase and NAD9, with malate dehydrogenase being virtually absent in fractions 9 and 10. This indicates that the uppermost part of the cytochrome c oxidase peak contains mitochondria with disrupted inner and outer membranes. NDA1 and NDB1 antibodies specifically detected polypeptides of 48 and 61 kD, respectively, consistent with the apparent molecular masses of St-NDA1 and St-NDB1 (CITATION). Proteins detected with both antibodies have a different distribution as compared with chlorophyll and catalase on the Suc gradient. The distribution of the immunodetected NDA protein coincided with cytochrome c oxidase activity and the NAD9 protein. The NDB signal peaked in fraction 5, coinciding with the lower part of the mitochondrial peak. This indicates that the protein is present in intact mitochondria but had been released from less dense mitochondria (fractions 7 and 8) with disrupted outer membranes but retaining malate dehydrogenase, i.e. mitoplasts. Protein recognized by the NDB antibodies was to a higher extent than malate dehydrogenase found at the top of the gradient, where small membrane vesicles and soluble proteins are expected, suggesting that more NDB protein had been released from the mitochondria. These results indicate that Arabidopsis homologs recognized by the NDA1 and NDB1 antibodies are localized in mitochondria and imply an external localization of the immunodetected At-NDB proteins, similar to potato NDB1.   [[FIGURE]] To analyze the subcellular localization of individual proteins, fusions of potential protein targeting domains with green fluorescent protein (GFP) were made for representative genes. Segments of cDNA encoding the N-terminal sequences up to the start of the first conserved nucleotide-binding motif were cloned into psmGFP4 in frame with the smGFP4 (Fig. 5). Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) protoplasts were transiently transformed with the different constructs, and expression of the fusion proteins was analyzed by fluorescence microscopy. Transformed protoplasts were simultaneously incubated with MitoTracker Red, a mitochondria-specific dye. All fusion proteins for NDA1, NDA2, NDB1, NDB2, and NDC1 localized to subcellular structures coinciding with MitoTracker Red staining (Fig. 5), and no signal could be detected in chloroplasts. This colocalization suggests that all five analyzed genes encode mitochondrial proteins, consistent with the immunological analyses (Fig. 4).   [[FIGURE]] To get a general overview of whether expression is constitutive or confined to certain parts of the plants, nda, ndb, and ndc mRNA of Arabidopsis were analyzed by RT-PCR. Transcripts for the 28.5- and 76-kD complex I subunits (CITATION) were used as controls. Figure 6 shows agarose gel analyses of RT-PCR products. The correct identities of all PCR products were controlled by restriction cleavage (results not shown). While nda2 was expressed in all organs investigated, nda1 was preferentially expressed in aboveground tissues with almost no expression in roots. Transcript of ndb1 and ndb2 genes was present in all parts of the plant, whereas ndb3 and ndb4 mRNAs were almost completely absent in leaves, and ndb4 transcript was also absent in stems. The ndc1 gene was expressed at significant levels in all organs. Expression of complex I subunit genes showed little difference between organs, consistent with previous northern-blot analyses (CITATION). The observations for nda1, nda2, ndb1, ndc1, and the complex I controls were also supported by real-time RT-PCR (results not shown). The results suggest that all type II NAD(P)H dehydrogenase genes are expressed in several tissues, with potential spatial regulation at the transcript level for nda1, ndb3, and ndb4.   [[FIGURE]] It was found previously that the potato nda1 RNA level is light dependent and has a daily rhythm with a peak in the morning (CITATION). The presence of two closely related nda genes in Arabidopsis now raises the question whether any of these are light dependent. We put Arabidopsis plants that had been grown at 16-h-light, 8-h-dark cycles into constant darkness, starting at the end of a light cycle. Leaf samples for RNA isolation were collected after 10 (when the plants normally would have been exposed to light for 2 h), 34, and 56 h, as well as 4 and 12 h after reapplying light and transcript levels determined by real-time RT-PCR (Fig. 7). The NDA1 transcript increased almost 8-fold after 10 h of darkness, an induction that disappeared after 34 and 56 h. Upon reexposure to light, the transcript was again strongly induced. The NDA2 transcript was transiently and less than 2-fold elevated in darkness, with no increase upon reapplication of light. The transcripts for NDB1 and NDC1 showed a profile similar to the 76- and 28.5-kD complex I subunits, displaying an approximately 50% decrease in response to darkness and a return to original level in response to reapplied light. The expression pattern shows that the At-nda1 is specifically controlled by light and may be under circadian regulation, similar to the potato nda1 (CITATION). In addition, Arabidopsis contains a light-independent nda2 gene.   [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) were grown on soil in climate chambers at 25°C using 100 μmol m–2 s–1 light for 16 h d–1. Mitochondria were isolated from 100-g leaves of 40-d-old Arabidopsis plants using Suc gradient separation of mitochondria and chloroplasts (CITATION). Two-milliliter fractions were collected from the Suc gradient. Aliquots of identical volume were analyzed by one-dimensional SDS-PAGE (CITATION), and proteins were electrotransferred to nitrocellulose membranes (CITATION). Immunostaining was performed with antibodies raised against conserved peptides of NDA1 and NDB1 from potato (Solanum tuberosum; CITATION), the NAD9 subunit of wheat (Triticum aestivum) complex I (CITATION), and malate dehydrogenase (CITATION) using ECL detection (Amersham, Buck-Inghamshire, UK). Cytochrome c oxidase (EC 1.9.3.1) activity (CITATION) and catalase (EC 1.11.1.6) activity (CITATION) was determined by published methods. Chlorophyll was determined by acetone extraction (CITATION). Total flower RNA isolation and cDNA synthesis were carried out similarly as described previously (CITATION). Primers adapted for BamHI restriction were designed to amplify sequences coding for the N-terminal domains of each investigated type II NAD(P)H dehydrogenase genes: At-NDA1, 5′-CGG GAT CCT TGG AGT ATT ATT TGC TTC TCT CG-3′ and 5′-CGG GAT CCT CGG CTT CTC TCC CTC TTT CG-3′; At-NDA2, 5′-CGG GAT CCG AAG AAG AAG CGA TGT TCA-3′ and 5′-CGG GAT CCC CGA CCC GAG AAC CAC TAC TC-3′; At-NDB1, 5′-CGG GAT CCT CTG AAG ACT TTT CAC CAA A-3′ and 5′-CGG GAT CCA ACC AGT CCC AAG CAC AAC T-3′; At-NDB2, 5′-CGG GAT CCT CGA ACC AAG AGC GAA AAT G-3′ and 5′-CGG GAT CCT CTT CTT GGT TCC AGT TTC AAC A-3′; and At-NDC1, 5′-CGG GAT CCA GCA ATG GCC GTT CTC TC-3′ and 5′-CGG GAT CCA CAC CCT TGG CCT CTT GTT A-3′. Amplification was made with the Advantage HF2 proof-reading PCR kit (CLON-TECH Laboratories, Palo Alto, CA), using an initial cycle of 60 s at 94°C, 20 s at 63°C. and 60 s at 68°C, and then 29 cycles of 30 s at 94°C, 30 s at 63°C, and 60 s at 68°C. Products were cleaved with BamHI and ligated into psmGFP4, upstream of the smGFP4 reading frame (CITATION). Clones were sequenced for confirmation of the insert using the Thermo Sequenase primer cycle sequencing kit (Amersham). Approximately 500,000 protoplasts isolated from tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv petit Havana) were transiently transformed with 50 μg of construct DNA using a polyethylene glycol method (CITATION). Protoplasts were subsequently incubated with MitoTracker Red according to the manufacturer's protocol (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR). Fluorescence microscopy was performed using an Axioplan microscope (Carl Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany). Axiovision software (Carl Zeiss) was used for taking images. Fluorescence filter sets from AHF Analystechnik (Tübingen, Germany) were HQ470/40/HQ500LP for GFP and chlorophyll autofluorescence and HQ545/30/HQ610/75 for MitoTracker Red. Isolation of total RNA, cDNA synthesis, and real-time PCR were carried out as in Svensson et al. (CITATION) except for variations in annealing temperatures (see below). Primers were designed so that one primer in each pair spanned an exon border. Control amplifications without RT reaction did not detect genomic signals. The primer sequences used were (annealing temperatures inside parentheses): At-NDA1 (60°C), 5′-CTC CGT GAG AGC AAG GAA GG-3′ and 5′-GGC GAA GTG GAG GGG ATA TG-3′; At-NDA2 (68°C), 5′-CGA GAG CAA GGA CGC AAA AG-3′ and 5′-CAG TAG GCC GAG ATT GAG AC-3′; At-NDB1 (68°C), 5′-TGC CTG CAA CTG CTC AGG TC-3′ and 5′-GAT GCC CGC CAG TTC TGA AG-3′; At-NDB2 (60°C), 5′-TAC GCC AGT AAG CAA GTG AG-3′ and 5′-TGT GTA TTG GAG CCT TGG AG-3′; At-NDB3 (55°C), 5′-GGT GAG TAG CCA AAG ACG TG and 5′-GAA GAT CGG TAA TGC CAT GC-3′; At-NDB4 (55°C), 5′-CCA ACG CAG AGT CAT GGA AG-3′ and 5′-CAC CAT TTG CAC TCT TGA GC-3′; At-NDC1 (60°C), 5′-CAA TGG CCG TTC TCT CCT C-3′ and 5′-ACA CCC TTG GCC TCT TGT TA-3′; 28.5kDa (58°C), 5′-AAC CGA GAC ACA YGA GGA AC-3′ and 5′-TAG AGR CTC TCC GAC CTC AG-3′; and 76 kD (62°C), 5′-ACA AGG TGT GTA CGA TTT GC-3′ and 5′-TTT GAG GTC AAG GCT CCA AC-3′. General molecular biology methods were performed according to Sambrook et al. (CITATION). Database searches were mainly performed at the National Center of Biotechnology Information using BLASTP and TBLASTN algorithms (CITATION) for the nr and est Arabidopsis database sets. Pair-wise alignments were performed using LAlign software (CITATION).
