!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis mutant early in short days4 (esd4) shows extreme early flowering and alterations in shoot development. We have identified ESD4 and demonstrate that it encodes a nuclear protein located predominantly at the periphery of the nucleus. ESD4 contains a segment of >200 amino acids with strong similarity to yeast and animal proteases that are specific for the protein modifier SMALL UBIQUITIN-RELATED MODIFIER (SUMO). ESD4 shows a similar function to these proteases in vitro and processes the precursor of Arabidopsis SUMO (AtSUMO) to generate the mature form. This activity of ESD4 is prevented by mutations that affect the predicted active site of the protease or the cleavage site of the AtSUMO precursor. In yeast, these proteases also recycle SUMO from conjugates, and this appears to be the major role of ESD4 in vivo. This is suggested because esd4 mutants contain less free AtSUMO and more SUMO conjugates than wild-type plants, and a transgene expressing mature SUMO at high levels enhanced aspects of the esd4 phenotype. ESD4 defines an important role for protein modification by AtSUMO in the regulation of flowering.
!~RES~! We isolated the ESD4 gene to further understand its role in plant development and the regulation of flowering. Previously, esd4-1 (Landsberg erecta [Ler]) was located to a 2-centimorgan interval on chromosome 4 between markers 326 and SC5 (CITATION). To increase the resolution of the esd4 map position, an additional 691 esd4-like F2 plants were screened with these markers, and ESD4 was located to a 35-kb region (Figure 1A ; see Methods) (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Four overlapping binary vector cosmids (3C12, 1E13, 1N15, and 3O6) spanning this region were introduced into esd4-1 by Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated root transformation to identify those that complemented the mutation (CITATION) (Figure 1). Transgenic esd4-1 mutants carrying 3C12 or 1E13 flowered at a similar time to the wild type and showed none of the pleiotropic phenotypes of esd4-1 (Figure 1) (CITATION). The region of overlap between 3C12 and 1E13 was predicted to encode at least two genes (At4g15870 and At4g15880; Figure 1A). Both genes were amplified from the mutant by PCR and sequenced. At4g15880 was amplified successfully from DNA of wild-type plants but not from esd4-1, suggesting that this region may contain a deletion in esd4-1, consistent with the mutation having been induced with γ-rays. Subsequent analysis revealed a deletion of 762 bp in esd4-1 that removed the first 10 codons from the protein-coding sequence and 732 bp upstream of the predicted ESD4 open reading frame (ORF), a modified form of At4g15880 (see below) (Figures 1A and 1D). No expression of At4g15880 was detected by RNA gel blot analysis in esd4-1 seedlings (Figure 2A), although an mRNA was found in extracts of wild-type plants, suggesting that this ORF might represent ESD4 and that esd4-1 is a null allele. [[FIGURE]] Previously, only a single allele of esd4 was isolated. To support our analysis of esd4-1 with a second allele and to strengthen the argument that At4g15880 represents ESD4, the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory sequence-indexed insertion line database was screened for an insertion in this ORF. A line carrying a T-DNA insertion within the predicted ESD4 gene was recovered (line SALK_032317). We obtained seeds of this line and identified plants homozygous for the T-DNA insertion. These plants flowered early under both long and short days (Figure 1C) and showed the same pleiotropic effects as the esd4-1 mutation. Thus, we refer to this line as esd4-2. To confirm the structure of the At4g15880 (ESD4) gene, a cDNA was identified and sequenced (Figure 1D). That this ORF encodes ESD4 was confirmed by demonstrating that expression of this cognate cDNA from the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus complemented esd4-1 (Figure 1B). Database searches with the predicted ESD4 protein sequence identified proteins from yeast, mammals, Caenorhabditis elegans, and Drosophila as well as other proteins from Arabidopsis that showed identity with a region of 200 amino acids at the C terminus of ESD4 (Figure 3). These proteins included the human SENTRIN-SPECIFIC PROTEASE1 (SENP1) (CITATION), the yeast UBIQUITIN-LIKE PROTEASE1 (ULP1) (CITATION), and the mouse SMT3-SPECIFIC ISOPEPTIDASE1 (SMT3IP1) (CITATION). This region of ESD4 and the homologous proteins contains residues predicted to form the active site of a Cys protease (CITATION) (Figure 2). Several of the homologous proteins are proteases involved in regulating the activity of SUMO (CITATION). A small family of these proteases was described previously in Arabidopsis, although ESD4 was not recognized as a member of this family (CITATION). These proteases show the endopeptidase activity required to generate mature SUMO from its precursor and the isopeptidase activity that recycles SUMO from conjugates with target proteins. [[FIGURE]] Comparison of ESD4 with other Arabidopsis sequences revealed that ESD4 is part of a larger gene family. The predicted product of one of these genes (At3g06910) shows a high degree of identity to ESD4 over the entire protein sequence (Figure 3B), whereas another gene (At4g00690) is very similar to ESD4 but the similarity is limited to the predicted protease domain. Three other genes (At1g10570, At1g60220, and At5g60190) show significant identity to the C-terminal region of ESD4, including the residues required to form the active site (CITATION). In addition, a Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) query using ULP1, ULP2, and SENP1 protease domain sequences against predicted Arabidopsis proteins revealed a large number of proteins that contain amino acids that are essential to form the protease active site as well as some proteins that lack one or more of these residues (data not shown). Whether ESD4 shows the SUMO endopeptidase activity characteristic of these proteases was tested in vitro. Three genes predicted to encode SUMO were identified in the Arabidopsis genome, and the cognate cDNAs were isolated (Figure 3C). These were named AtSUMO1 to AtSUMO3, the same nomenclature used independently by CITATION. These cDNAs were expressed in Escherichia coli with an N-terminal tag of 10 His residues (HIS:AtSUMO). The protease is predicted to cleave HIS:AtSUMO immediately after two highly conserved Gly residues near the C terminus, thereby removing a short peptide and generating mature HIS-AtSUMO (Figures 3C and 4A). To more easily detect this cleavage, the size of the peptide removed by hydrolysis was increased by inserting an unrelated protein at the C terminus of SUMO. FLC was used for this purpose, generating HIS:AtSUMO:FLC. HIS:AtSUMO:FLC was purified from the E. coli extract by nickel-exchange chromatography, and the expected 45-kD protein was detected in the purified extract using an anti-HIS antibody (Figure 4). HIS:ESD4, also purified from E. coli, then was incubated with HIS:AtSUMO1:FLC for 30 min. After incubation, the mixture was separated on a gel and probed with HIS antibody. The HIS:AtSUMO1:FLC protein was either not detected or was present at much lower abundance, and a protein smaller than the expected size for HIS:AtSUMO1 was present. The smaller protein did not appear if HIS:FLC was incubated with HIS:ESD4 (data not shown). These experiments suggested that ESD4 acts in vitro as an AtSUMO1 C-terminal hydrolase. [[FIGURE]] Previously, SUMO C-terminal hydrolase was distinguished from deubiquitinating enzymes based on their differential sensitivity to protease inhibitors. The sensitivity of HIS:ESD4 to these inhibitors was tested by assessing their effect on the in vitro cleavage of HIS:AtSUMO1:FLC. The activity of HIS:ESD4 was blocked by a thiol reagent (Cys protease inhibitor) and by N-ethylmaleimide (Figure 4B), which inhibited the activity of yeast ULP1 (CITATION), but not by ubiquitin aldehyde, which is a specific inhibitor of deubiquitinating protease (Figure 4B). Similarly, pepstatin A, an Asp protease inhibitor, and benzamidine HCl, a trypsin protease inhibitor, did not affect HIS:ESD4 activity (data not shown). Thus, ESD4 is a Cys protease with endopeptidase activity similar to that of yeast ULP1 (CITATION). Cleavage of HIS:AtSUMO2:FLC and HIS:AtSUMO3:FLC by HIS:ESD4 also occurred in vitro, so under these conditions, ESD4 was not specific to a particular AtSUMO isoform. To test the specificity of this reaction further, mutant forms of HIS:ESD4 and HIS:AtSUMO:FLC were generated and tested in reactions similar to those described above. ESD4 contains all four residues identified as being conserved between adenovirus protease and ULP1-related enzymes and predicted to be essential for protease activity (Figure 3A) (CITATION). To determine whether the conserved Cys residue (Cys-488) is required for the observed HIS:ESD4 activity in vitro, it was converted to a Ser. The HIS:ESD4(C488S) protein was purified from E. coli extracts and tested for its ability to cleave the HIS:AtSUMO1:FLC substrate. The mutant protein did not show SUMO C-terminal hydrolase activity, although the protein was detected using anti-HIS antibody, indicating that this Cys is essential for ESD4 activity and that the cleavage of HIS:AtSUMO1:FLC is not caused by another protease present in the reaction (Figure 4C). In another experiment designed to test the specificity of this reaction, a mutation was generated within the HIS:AtSUMO1:FLC. The C-terminal hydrolase activity is predicted to cleave SUMO immediately after the conserved Gly residues (residues 92 and 93 in AtSUMO1) close to the C terminus, which, as illustrated in the crystal structure of the ULP1:SUMO complex, are recognized by conserved amino acids within the active site of the protease (CITATION). To determine whether these Gly residues are required for the cleavage of HIS:AtSUMO1:FLC observed in vitro, they were converted to Ala. No cleavage of HIS:AtSUMO1 (G92A G93A):FLC was detected in vitro (Figure 4C). Therefore, cleavage of HIS:AtSUMO1:FLC in vitro requires the Gly residues shown previously to be essential for SUMO maturation, suggesting that it occurs precisely as predicted for the C-terminal hydrolysis of SUMO. This conclusion also is supported by the size of the cleaved product, which is slightly smaller than the HIS:AtSUMO1 precursor synthesized in E. coli (Figure 4B). Whether ESD4 affects SUMOylation in vivo was tested using rabbit polyclonal antibodies raised against HIS:AtSUMO1 and HIS:AtSUMO3. As a result of the high degree of identity between these proteins (Figure 2), both antibodies recognized all three SUMO isoforms made in E. coli. In protein extracts of wild-type plants, a protein of the size expected for AtSUMO was detected with the anti-AtSUMO1 antibody. In addition, several larger proteins that may correspond to conjugates between AtSUMO and target proteins were detected. In esd4-1 extracts, putative SUMO conjugates were increased dramatically in abundance compared with wild-type plants (Figure 4D). Furthermore, the abundance of free SUMO was reduced in esd4-1 mutant plants compared with that in the wild type (Figure 4D). These results support a role for ESD4 in SUMO metabolism in vivo and suggest that its major function is to recycle AtSUMO from conjugates, causing an accumulation of conjugated AtSUMO and a reduced abundance of the free form. The involvement of a SUMO protease predominantly in recycling SUMO from conjugates was proposed for ULP2 of yeast (CITATION). Comparisons of SUMO and SUMO conjugate levels in wild-type and esd4-1 mutant plants suggested that the major role of ESD4 in vivo is to recycle SUMO from conjugates. To examine this possibility further, we tested whether overexpression of the mature or precursor forms of SUMO affected the phenotype of esd4-1 mutants. Of particular interest was whether the expression of mature forms of SUMO reduced the severity of the mutant phenotype, as might be expected if the protease acts as an endopeptidase required to generate mature SUMO from the precursor. 35S promoter fusions to AtSUMO1, AtSUMO2, and AtSUMO3 as well as to truncated open reading frames encoding each of the mature forms were constructed (see Methods). All six constructs were introduced into wild-type and esd4-1 mutant plants. All of these transgenes had similar effects on conjugate profiles and on the phenotypes of the plants (Figures 4D and 5). In the esd4-1 mutant, the expression of mature AtSUMO1 from the 35S promoter increased the abundance of conjugates to an even higher level (Figure 4D), and similar effects were observed with the other five transgenes. By contrast, the abundance of conjugates was not increased in transgenic Ler plants expressing mature AtSUMO1 (Figure 4D) or carrying the other transgenes. The transgenes also had more severe phenotypic effects on esd4-1 mutants than on wild-type plants. The esd4-1 mutants expressing mature AtSUMO1 were dramatically shorter and dwarfed compared with the progenitor mutant (Figure 5), and similar phenotypes were created by the overexpression of the other AtSUMO transgenes. By contrast, overexpression of AtSUMO or the mature form in wild-type plants did not dramatically alter their phenotype (Figure 5), consistent with previous observations (CITATION). Analysis of the transgenic plants supported the suggestion that the esd4 phenotype is caused by impaired recycling of SUMO from conjugates and therefore is enhanced by increasing the abundance of these conjugates in transgenic plants overexpressing AtSUMO. Furthermore, the reduced efficiency of the processing of mature SUMO from the precursor is unlikely to contribute greatly to the esd4 phenotype, because expression of the mature form did not reduce the effect of the mutation. [[FIGURE]] In yeast and animal cells, different isoforms of SUMO proteases differ in their subcellular locations. To test this for ESD4, an ESD4:green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein was expressed in an esd4-1 mutant from the 35S promoter. The 35S::ESD4:GFP transgene fully complemented all aspects of the esd4-1 mutant phenotype. The ESD4:GFP fusion protein was visualized in root cells by confocal microscopy. The protein was detected specifically in the nucleus (Figure 6A). The subnuclear location of the protein was examined at higher magnification in root hair cells and in the root epidermis (Figure 6A). In both cases, the protein was detected at highest abundance at the periphery of the nucleus, apparently in association with the nuclear envelope. [[FIGURE]] In addition, an antibody against HIS:ESD4 was raised in rabbits. Protein gel blots were prepared using nuclear protein extracts made from wild-type and esd4-1 seedlings (see Methods). The antibody detected a protein of the expected size for ESD4 (∼65 kD) in nuclear extracts of wild-type plants but not in esd4-1 mutants (Figure 6). This finding further indicated that ESD4 is located in the nucleus. The esd4-1 mutant has a pleiotropic phenotype, suggesting that ESD4 may be required in a variety of plant tissues. ESD4 mRNA expression was examined by RNA gel blot analysis and was present in seedlings, leaves, shoots, flowers, and roots of wild-type plants (Figure 2B). Many flowering-time genes show a diurnal pattern of expression (CITATION; CITATION), so this was tested for ESD4. However, the abundance of the ESD4 mRNA was constant through a 24-h cycle (data not shown), indicating that it did not exhibit a diurnal rhythm in its expression. Many flowering-time genes identified by loss-of-function mutations also have an effect on flowering when overexpressed (CITATION); therefore, we examined the effect of overexpressing ESD4 from the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus in wild-type Ler plants. Plants carrying the 35S::ESD4 transgene contained increased levels of the ESD4 mRNA (data not shown), but they flowered at the same time as Ler controls under long and short days, suggesting that ESD4 activity is saturated at wild-type levels of expression (data not shown).
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana esd4-1 mutant (CITATION) and the growth conditions used (CITATION) were described previously. The homozygous esd4-2 mutant was in the Columbia ecotype and identified as segregating in T3 seeds provided by the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory via the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. For in vivo analysis of ESD4 function, plants were grown in cabinets under true long days of 16 h of light with no daylength extension. Cosmids containing DNA from the vicinity of ESD4 were mobilized into Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1. The T-DNA was introduced into esd4-1 plants using standard procedures (CITATION). RNA extraction, RNA gel blot analysis, and hybridization were as described previously (CITATION). Hybridization signals were assessed using a PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics, Sunnyvale, CA). The plasmid pET19b (Novagen, Madison, WI) was used for the expression of His10-recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli BL21. Binary vectors containing fusions of the 35S promoter to the mature forms of AtSUMO1/2/3 were constructed as follows. A GATEWAY Entry clone (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) containing the AtSUMO open reading frame was made by first amplifying a fragment extending from the ATG codon to the end of the codon, including the second Gly residue that defines the cleavage site of SUMO. The primers also were designed to incorporate a stop codon after the Gly and included attB1 and attB2 sequences (Invitrogen), which facilitated recombination into the donor vector via a BP reaction (Invitrogen, Gateway Technology, catalog nos. 11821-014 and 12535-019, version C, www.invitrogen.com). The resulting entry clone was used in an LR reaction with the destination binary vector pAlligator-2 (F. Parcy, Institut des Sciences du Végétal, CNRS, Gif-sur-Yvette, France). This generated a translational fusion between the 3xHA tag and the mature form of AtSUMO at the N terminus of AtSUMO and placed the translational fusion downstream of the 35S promoter. Binary vectors overexpressing the precursor forms of SUMO were made in a similar way, except that the entire open reading frames of SUMO, including the region after the Gly residues, were amplified by PCR. Expression of recombinant proteins was induced by isopropylthio-β-galactoside for 4 h at 28°C. Harvested cells were resuspended in buffer I (250 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 25% sucrose, and 2 mg/mL lysozyme), diluted in buffer II (300 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 75 mM EDTA, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 2 mM DTT, and PIC [a protein inhibitor cocktail for E. coli; Sigma]), and incubated for 10 min on ice. After brief sonication, cell debris were removed by spinning down at 12,000 rpm for 30 min. The supernatant was filtered, and buffer III (50 mM NaH2PO4, 10 mM Tris, pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 5 mM 2-mercaptoethonol, 5% sucrose, PIC for plants, and 0.05% Tween 20) was changed for buffer II with a desalting column (Econo-Pac 10DG column; Bio-Rad). Purification of HIS:AtSUMO1:FLC, HIS:AtSUMO1 (G92A G93A):FLC, HIS:ESD4, and HIS:ESD4(C448S) was achieved using nickel–nitrilotriacetic acid agarose beads (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) according to the manufacturer's instructions. HIS:AtSUMO substrates (500 ng per lane for SDS-PAGE) were incubated with HIS:ESD4 (1 μg per lane for SDS-PAGE) for 30 min at 37°C. Reactions were stopped by adding SDS-PAGE sampling buffer. For the inhibitor study, substrates with inhibitors were placed on ice for 10 min before adding ESD4. The inhibitors used were 1 μM ubiquitin aldehyde (Sigma) and 5 mM N-ethylmaleimide (ICN, Costa Mesa, CA). Standard protocols were used for SDS-PAGE, and proteins were detected by protein gel blot analysis with an antibody against His6 (Pierce). Ten-day-old seedling material (0.5 g) was ground in liquid nitrogen. Five hundred microliters of lysis buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 120 mM NaCl, 0.2 mM sodium orthovanadate, 100 mM NaF, 10% glycerol, 0.2% Triton X-100, 5 mM DTT, 1× PIC, and 5 mM N-ethylmaleimide) was added, and samples were shaken end-over-end for 1 h at 4°C. Samples were spun at 20,000g for 20 min at 4°C, and the concentration of proteins in the supernatant was determined. One hundred micrograms of protein was loaded onto an SDS-PAGE gel, and the protein gel blot was probed with the AtSUMO1 antibody using the Supersignal West Pico Chemiluminescent Substrate for HRP system (Pierce). 35S::ESD4:GFP was constructed using the GATEWAY recombination system (Invitrogen) as follows. An entry clone containing the ESD4 open reading frame was made by first amplifying a fragment extending from the ATG codon to the end of the ESD4 open reading frame but omitting the stop codon. The primers used included attB1 and attB2 sequences (Invitrogen), which facilitated recombination into the donor vector via a BP reaction. The resulting entry clone was used in an LR reaction with the destination binary vector p35S::GW::GFP (F. Turck, Max-Planck-Institut für Züchtungsforschung) to generate the C-terminal fusion of GFP to ESD4. This was used for transformation into esd4-1 mutants to demonstrate that ESD4:GFP complemented the mutant phenotype, and the cells were imaged using a Zeiss LSM 510 Meta confocal laser scanning microscope (Jena, Germany). The stomata guard cells, hypocotyl cells, and root cells of the 10-day-old transgenic 35S::GFP:ESD4 seedlings grown on CITATION agar plates were analyzed. Confocal images were collected using a ×63 or a ×40 oil-immersion lens. GFP fluorescence was excited with a 488-nm argon laser, and images were collected in the 500- to 530-nm range. In all cases, transmissible light images were collected simultaneously. Upon request, materials integral to the findings presented in this publication will be made available in a timely manner to all investigators on similar terms for noncommercial research purposes. To obtain materials, please contact George Coupland, coupland{at}mpiz-koeln.mpg.de. The EMBL Nucleotide Sequence Database accession number for ESD4 is AJ582719. Accession numbers for the sequences shown in Figure 3 are AF149770 (human SENP1), AF194031 (mouse SMT3IP1), NC_001148 (Saccharomyces cerevisiae ULP1), U67122 (human SUMO-1), U33057 (S. cerevisiae SMT3), and AY035148 (Arabidopsis UBIQUITIN1).
