!~ABS~! In yeast and animals, the anaphase-promoting complex or cyclosome (APC/C) is an essential ubiquitin protein ligase that regulates mitotic progression and exit by controlling the stability of cell cycle regulatory proteins, such as securin and the mitotic cyclins. In plants, the function, regulation, and substrates of the APC/C are poorly understood. To gain more insight into the roles of the plant APC/C, we characterized at the molecular level one of its subunits, APC2, which is encoded by a single-copy gene in Arabidopsis. We show that the Arabidopsis gene is able to partially complement a budding yeast apc2 ts mutant. By yeast two-hybrid assays, we demonstrate an interaction of APC2 with two other APC/C subunits: APC11 and APC8/CDC23. A reverse-genetic approach identified Arabidopsis plants carrying T-DNA insertions in the APC2 gene. apc2 null mutants are impaired in female megagametogenesis and accumulate a cyclin–β-glucuronidase reporter protein but do not display metaphase arrest, as observed in other systems. The APC2 gene is expressed in various plant organs and does not seem to be cell cycle regulated. Finally, we report intriguing differences in APC2 protein subcellular localization compared with that in other systems. Our observations support a conserved function of the APC/C in plants but a different mode of regulation.
!~RES~! A full-length Arabidopsis APC2 cDNA was reconstituted from an EST clone and a reverse transcriptase–mediated PCR product. Its open reading frame encodes a protein of 865 amino acids. Sequence analysis confirmed the intron/exon structure predicted by the genome project. The plant protein shows sequence conservation throughout the protein sequence with all other APC2 proteins from different organisms (data not shown). It exhibits 61.3, 30.7, and 20.7% sequence identity with a predicted APC2 protein from rice and the APC2 subunits from human and budding yeast, respectively. A phylogenetic tree that includes APC2 subunits from various organisms as well as members of the related CUL1/CDC53 protein family (Figure 1A) shows a clear separation of both protein subfamilies. [[FIGURE]] The APC2 and cullin proteins share the highest sequence identities within the so-called cullin homology domain of ∼180 residues (Figure 1B) (for review, see CITATION). This domain, as well as additional sequences at the C terminus of the CUL1 protein, interacts with the RING-H2 finger protein RBX1/ROC1 (CITATION). SCF and APC/C complexes are known to share a number of structural characteristics (reviewed by CITATION; CITATION). Interestingly, certain of the residues in human CUL1, which are involved in the interaction with RBX1/ROC1 (CITATION), also are conserved in the APC2 protein sequences (Figure 1B). Thus, it will be interesting to determine whether APC/C's RING-H2 finger protein counterpart, APC11, also interacts with APC2 in a similar manner. CUL1 and other members of the cullin family, but not the APC2 proteins, are modified on a conserved Lys residue through the covalent attachment of the ubiquitin-like molecule NEDD8/RUB1 (reviewed by CITATION). Like APC2 from animals and yeast, the Arabidopsis APC2 subunit does not carry the neddylation acceptor residue (Figure 1B). By analogy with CDC53/CUL1 (CITATION), APC2 is believed to form multiple protein–protein interactions inside the APC/C complex. We investigated whether this is the case with certain predicted plant subunits (CITATION). Arabidopsis full-length cDNAs of all subunits containing the tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) repeats (CDC23, CDC16, CDC27A, and CDC27B/ HOBBIT) (CITATION), the Doc domain protein APC10, CDC26, and the RING-H2 finger protein APC11 were isolated and cloned into the pGAD424 and pGBT9 vectors to test for interaction with APC2 in yeast two-hybrid assays (Figure 2). When APC2 was fused to the GAL4 activation domain (pAD-APC2), we observed a clear interaction with APC11 and CDC23 (Figure 2A). Although the pGB-APC2 construct exhibits strong autoactivation of the β-galactosidase reporter gene, it was still possible to confirm these interactions by measuring β-galactosidase activities (Figure 2B). [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the interaction between the APC2 subunit and the RING-H2 finger protein APC11, the proteins were fused to epitope tags and expressed transiently in Arabidopsis protoplasts. Coimmunoprecipitation of myc-tagged APC2 with hemagglutinin (HA)-tagged APC11 was demonstrated (Figure 2C). Thus, it is likely that APC2 and APC11 proteins form a heterodimeric protein complex similar to CUL1/RBX1 (CITATION). We next determined whether both plant APC/C subunits are able to functionally replace their respective budding yeast orthologs. Full-size cDNAs of both APC2 and APC11 were cloned into a yeast vector under the control of the Gal promoter and transformed into apc2-1 and apc11-myc9 ts yeast mutant strains that grow at 28°C but are restricted at 35°C (CITATION). Expression of both plant APC/C subunits rescued the yeast mutant strains at the restrictive temperature, whereas the negative control containing the empty vector did not (Figure 3). However, these rescues were only partial, because the final density of the cultures was lower than that at the permissive temperature. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the function of the Arabidopsis APC2 gene, we used a reverse-genetic approach. The apc2-1 insertion line was identified by PCR screening of 40,000 independent transgenic lines from the Versailles T-DNA collection, whereas the apc2-2 line was obtained by screening 39,700 lines of the recently established Cologne collection (CITATION). The apc2-3 line was obtained from the Salk Institute (from the Flanking Sequence Tags project). In all three lines, the T-DNAs were inserted into coding sequences (Figure 4). In apc2-2, one copy of the T-DNA was inserted into the fifth exon, whereas in apc2-3, two copies of the T-DNA were inserted head to head in exon 7. In apc2-1, the T-DNA was inserted into exon 8. In this line, we were able to sequence only one of the T-DNA/plant genomic DNA junctions; nevertheless, the presence of a single T-DNA insertion was confirmed by DNA gel blot analysis (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] PCR analysis of the progeny for all three mutant lines after self-fertilization failed to reveal homozygous plants for the T-DNA insertions, indicating that the APC2 gene is essential. Nevertheless, the mutation is recessive, because the heterozygote mutant lines showed a normal sporophytic phenotype throughout their development (data not shown). Genetic analysis revealed that the percentage of transmission of the mutant alleles in apc2-1/APC2, apc2-2/APC2, and apc2-3/APC2 heterozygous plants after self-fertilization is at most 52% (Table 1), which is consistent with a gametophytic defect. Moreover, open siliques from the self-pollinated apc2-1/APC2 plant showed a large proportion of aborted siblings (∼50% of 296 counted seeds), as illustrated in Figure 5A , indicating that these plants were semisterile. Indeed, analysis of T-DNA transmission through reciprocal backcrosses of the apc2-1 mutant with the wild type showed severe reduction in genetic transmission of the T-DNA only through the female gametes (Table 1). The few kanamycin-resistant plants obtained when the apc2-1 mutant was used as the female parent in the cross with wild-type plants may arise from self-fertilization resulting from imperfect emasculation. Genetic Analysis of Different APC2 Insertion Alleles and Molecular Complementation of the apc2-1 Mutant [[FIGURE]] To determine the nature of the defect in apc2 female gametophyte mutants, we analyzed embryo sac formation at different developmental stages in apc2-1/APC2 and apc2-2/APC2 plants using confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). It is well known that embryo sacs develop synchronously inside the same silique. From these observations, we found for the apc2-1 mutant that 100 of 278 (36%) female gametophytes were arrested at the two-nucleus stage (Figures 5B to 5E), indicating that APC2 loss of function impairs primarily megagametogenesis after the first mitotic division. Furthermore, the female gametophyte mutants arrested in interphase and not in mitotic prophase, because the nucleoli clearly were visible (Figures 5D and 5E). It is noteworthy that we never observed an arrest during metaphase. When analyzed at later stages, after fertilization of the nonmutated ovules (Figure 5F), the mutant gametophytes degenerated entirely (Figure 5G). Based on the genetic analysis and on the observation that ∼50% of the seeds were aborted in siliques of self-pollinated heterozygous mutant plants (see above), it is likely that some of the mutant gametes also arrest at later stages and may even be able to develop into embryo sacs. Similarly, we observed by CLSM a 26% female gametophyte arrest (75 of 286) in the apc2-2 mutant. Nevertheless, in this mutant, the female gametophytes arrested either at the one-nucleus stage (Figure 5H) or at the two-nucleus stage (data not shown), indicating an earlier arrest of the mutant. This mutant also showed a more severe reduction in genetic transmission of the T-DNA (Table 1), suggesting reduced transmission of the mutation through the pollen. However, this issue was not explored. Our observations strongly suggest that the disruption of the APC2 gene primarily affects megagametogenesis. This possibility was investigated further by genetic complementation. A genomic fragment spanning from 2048 bp upstream of the ATG to 432 bp downstream of the stop codon was cloned into a vector carrying the HPT gene, which confers hygromycin resistance (pCAMB-APC2). Hygromycin-resistant plants were obtained from transformation of heterozygous apc2-1 mutant plants (here referred to as the T0 generation), and their self-progeny were scored for kanamycin resistance (T2 generation). If the female gametophyte lethality were complemented successfully by the introduced construct, we would expect to recover kanamycin-resistant progeny at greater frequency in these lines. In the case of a single integration of the transgene that segregates independently of the APC2 locus, we would expect a 2:1 segregation ratio of kanamycin resistant:kanamycin sensitive in the T2 generation. Indeed, 11 of 29 independent transformants displayed such a kanamycin resistant:kanamycin sensitive segregation ratio (two of them are shown in Table 1), indicating that functional complementation occurred in these lines. Moreover, in the progeny of these lines, we obtained lines that were 100% kanamycin resistant and thus homozygous for the mutation. This finding was confirmed further by PCR analysis (data not shown). Mitotic cyclins were the first demonstrated APC/C substrates (reviewed by CITATION; CITATION). These proteins carry a specific sequence element in their N-terminal regions termed the D-box that is required for their degradation (CITATION). We have shown previously that reporter proteins containing the N-terminal domains of either A3-type or B1-type mitotic cyclins are actively degraded in a D-box–dependent manner in plant cells (CITATION). To investigate whether the apc2 mutants accumulate D-box–containing proteins, the 5′ part of the cyclin A3 cDNA encoding the N-terminal domain with the D-box (CITATION) was fused to the GUS gene and expressed under the control of the gametophyte-specific BnSKP1 g1 promoter (CITATION). This construct in binary vector, called pAL101, was introduced in wild-type Arabidopsis (Wassilewskija ecotype), and T1 transformants were selected. These plants were self-fertilized, and T2 plants homozygous for the insertion were selected. None of these plants displayed GUS staining during different stages of female gametophyte development (data not shown). However, when the T2 plants were fertilized with pollen from the apc2-2 mutant and apc2-2/APC2 pAL101/pAL101 plants were selected, GUS staining was observed in the embryo sacs (Figure 5I). The GUS staining was present only in the arrested megagametophytes (Figures 5J and 5K), indicating that the apc2-2 mutant is unable to degrade D-box–containing proteins. RNA gel blot analysis showed that the APC2 gene encodes a single transcript that is present in different organs of Arabidopsis plants (Figure 6A). Consistent with the mutant phenotype, we observed the expression of the APC2 gene in immature flowers. Indeed, APC2 RNA was detected in ovules by in situ hybridization (data not shown). Because the APC/C is involved in the control of the cell cycle, we investigated the expression of the gene during different growth phases of suspension-cultured cells. Whereas the histone H4 transcripts showed higher expression levels during days 2 and 3 of the culture (corresponding to an enriched cell population at the G1/S transition), the APC2 transcript was found at a relatively constant level (Figure 6B). Thus, the APC2 gene, like CDC27A (CITATION), does not seem to be cell cycle regulated. [[FIGURE]] To study the subcellular localization of the APC/C, we raised polyclonal antibodies against the Arabidopsis APC2 and CDC27A subunits. Both antibodies gave only a single signal on protein gel blots that was specific, as demonstrated by competition experiments (data not shown). Control immunolocalization experiments using preimmune anti-APC2 or anti-CDC27A serum did not show any detectable staining above background levels (data not shown). During interphase, both proteins were found mainly in the nuclei of Arabidopsis root meristems (Figures 7A and 7F). In prophase, the nuclear envelope is surrounded by a cage of microtubules—the so-called “prophase spindle” (Figures 7B and 7G). At this stage, both proteins are still nuclear. However, in metaphase and anaphase, the APC2 signal is diffuse and not enriched on the mitotic spindle or the condensed chromosomes (Figures 7C and 7D). By contrast, the CDC27A protein is not or is barely detectable in metaphase and during anaphase, suggesting that it is degraded or inaccessible to the antibodies (Figures 7H and 7I). As soon as cells are in telophase and reform their nuclear envelopes, both APC/C subunits are localized again to the nucleus (Figures 7E and 7J). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana APC2 full-length cDNA clone was obtained using an incomplete EST missing the 5′ end of the sequence. The 5′ end was obtained by reverse transcriptase–mediated PCR using the Smart RACE cDNA amplification kit (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) and primer 5′-ATC- AGCCTCGACAGGGTCCGGTTC-3′ for the reverse transcription step. The RNAs were extracted from floral buds, and mRNAs were purified using the PolyATract mRNA Isolation System III (Promega). The 5′ and 3′ sequences were subcloned by PCR using primers 5′-AAATTTCTCGAGATGGAAGCTTTAGGTTCCT-3′ and 5′-AAATTTCAGCTGGATCTA- TTGCCCGA-3′. The cDNA of EST clone AV563067 was used for PCR amplification with primers 5′-AAATTTCAGCTGGTGTATTTCTGGAAG- CA-3′ and 5′-AAATTTGAGCTCCTACTTCTTTAGCAAATACA-3′. The two PCR fragments then were assembled through the PvuII site and cloned into the pGEM-T vector (Promega). Sequence analysis of the cloned fragment revealed that PCR amplification caused an amino acid substitution (Val to Ala) at position 373. The CDC26 cDNA clone was obtained by PCR amplification on genomic Arabidopsis DNA using primers 5′-ATCACTTTGTATCGAAGAAATGTTGAGAAG-3′ and 5′-GGAGAGTGG- TGAGACGGAGATGAGCAGCGG-3′ and then introduced into pGEM-T vector (Promega). The other APC/C subunits were amplified directly by PCR from an Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia cell suspension cDNA library in the pACT2 vector (kindly provided by Csaba Koncz, Max-Planck Institut für Züchtungsforschung, Köln, Germany). The oligonucleotides used in these reactions were 5′-AGAGATATGGCGACAGAGT-3′ and 5′-TCA- TCTCAGTGTTGAATAAGT-3′ for APC10 (At2g18290), 5′-ATGGCTTTT- GATGGTTGTTG-3′ and 5′-TTACTCTTTGAACTGCCATTC-3′ for APC11 (At3g05870), 5′-ATGAGGGAAGAAATTGAG-3′ and 5′-ACTGACCAATTCCTAGCAGAG-3′ for CDC16 (At1g78770), 5′-ATGGCTTCTAAAGAGTGTTGC-3′ and 5′-GGAACAGTACAGCTAAATAGG-3′ for CDC23 (At3g48150), 5′-ATGATGGAGAATCTACTGGC-3′ and 5′-TTAGGGTTAGTCCACAAG-3′ for CDC27A (At3g16320), and 5′-ATGGAAGCTATG- CTTGTGGA-3′ and 5′-TCACGGGCTCTCATCGATCTC-3′ for CDC27B/HOBBIT (At2g20000). All PCR fragments were introduced into EcoRV-digested pBluescript KSII +. The first 137 amino acids of tobacco an A-type cyclin (Nicta;CycA3;1) (CITATION) containing the destruction box was fused upstream of the GUS reporter gene in such a way that the GUS coding sequence is in translational fusion with the cyclin. A NotI-NotI DNA fragment isolated from plasmid pAL51 containing the BnSKP1 g1 promoter and the 5′ untranslated region (CITATION), the cyclin A3–GUS reporter gene, and the 19S terminator of Cauliflower mosaic virus were cloned into the NotI sites of the pEC2 binary plasmid (CITATION), generating the pAL101 plasmid. To complement the apc2-1 mutant, the APC2 genomic region spanning the region from 2048 bp upstream of the ATG to 432 bp downstream of the stop codon was amplified by PCR using oligonucleotides 5′-CCCGGGGAATTCGTAGCGGATTGGTAGTTGCTAGCTG-3′ and 5′-CCCGGGGGATCCCATAAGTAATGTGTAGCGGTTCTGC-3′. The resulting fragment was digested with EcoRI and BamHI and subsequently cloned into the pCAMBIA1380 vector (CAMBIA, Canberra, Australia), resulting in plasmid pCAMB-APC2, and sequenced. For transient expression in Arabidopsis suspension cultured cells, the APC11 and APC2 cDNAs were cloned into the pRT104-derived vectors (CITATION) with 3×HA and 3×myc epitopes, respectively, as N-terminal fusions. Protoplasts from Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia were transfected using the polyethylene glycol–mediated method (CITATION). For the immunoprecipitation, 0.5 mg of protein extract was incubated with 500 ng of rat monoclonal anti-HA antibody 3F10 (Roche, Mannheim, Germany) and 50 μL of Protein G MicroBeads (Miltenyi Biotec, Köln, Germany) for 16 h at 4°C. The washing and elution of immune complexes were performed according to the manufacturer's recommendations. The eluates were loaded on SDS-PAGE gels, and proteins were transferred to a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane. The efficiency of the immunoprecipitation was verified using the mouse monoclonal 12CA5 anti-HA antibody. myc-tagged APC2 was detected with the 9E10 mouse monoclonal antibody (Roche). The cDNAs that encode the different subunits were introduced into the pGAD424 and pGBT9 yeast two-hybrid vectors (Clontech). The yeast two-hybrid analysis was performed using the GAL4-based Matchmaker Two-Hybrid System (Clontech) according to the manufacturer's protocol. For the transformations, the PJ69-4a strain (CITATION) was used. Positive interactions were selected on synthetic complete medium lacking His and adenine. The β-galactosidase activities were assayed as described by CITATION. For the budding yeast mutant complementation experiments, the coding sequence of AtAPC11 was amplified by PCR with the primers 5′-ATATATTCTAGAATGAAAGTCAAGATCTTG-3′ and 5′-TATATAGGATCC- TTACTCTTTGAACTGCCA-3′ to generate a product with XbaI and BamHI restriction sites. This product was subcloned in p416GALS using these sites and then excised using HindIII and BamHI. The digested AtAPC11 then was inserted into pYC/2NT-A (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) opened with the same enzymes, yielding the pYC2/NT APC11. For AtAPC2, its coding sequence was amplified by PCR with the primers 5′-ATATATGGATCCATGGAAGCTTTAGGTTCC-3′ and 5′-TATATAGAATTCCTACTTCTTTAGCAAATA-3′, and the resulting product was digested with BamHI and EcoRI and cloned in pYC2/NT-A (Invitrogen) using the same restriction sites, giving the pYC2/NT APC2. The yeast strain W373 (apc11-myc9) (CITATION) was transformed with either pYC2/NT APC11 or pYC2/NT-A and cultured on SD-tryptophan/-uracil (SD-T/U) with glucose as a carbon source. The strain K6966 (apc2-1) (CITATION) was transformed with either pYC2/NT APC2 or pYC/2NT-A and kept on SD-leucine/-histidine/-uracil (SD-L/H/U) with glucose as a carbon source. The yeast then were transferred in liquid SD-T/U or SD-L/H/U with 1% raffinose and 2% galactose for W373 and K6966, respectively, and grown for 48 h at 28°C with vigorous shaking. The cultures then were transferred to fresh medium, and their OD600 values were adjusted to 0.2. All cultures were split in two, with half of the volume placed at 28°C and the other half at 35°C. Growth was monitored by measurements at OD600. This experiment was performed using three different transformants for each construction. RNA was extracted from young leaves using the Trizol reagent (Gibco BRL). RNA gel blot analysis was performed with 20 μg of total RNA per lane. The RNA gel blot procedure has been described by CITATION. The histone H4 probe corresponds to the 196-bp restriction fragment AccI-DdeI of the coding region of the gene H4A748 (CITATION). The integrity and the amount of RNA applied to each lane were verified by ethidium bromide staining and hybridization with a probe encoding translation elongation factor 1α (EF-1α) (cDNA clone 232A19T7, gene At1g07920). Three-week-old Arabidopsis (Wassilewskija ecotype) plants were transformed by in planta transformation (CITATION) with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58 harboring pAL101 plasmid and strain GV3101 harboring pCAMB-APC2 plasmid. For transformation with the pAL101 construct, T0 plants were sown on sand and watered with Basta-containing nutrient solution. Forty Basta-resistant plants (T1) then were selected, grown in the greenhouse, and observed for GUS activity in inflorescences. Plants were self-fertilized to obtain T2 seeds. Basta-resistant T2 plants from T1 plants were crossed as the female with the hygromycin-resistant apc2-2 mutant. Hybrid seeds were sterilized and sown in vitro on medium as described by CITATION and supplemented with hygromycin (20 mg/L), and among them, Basta-resistant plants were selected by PCR analysis using Basta primers (5′-CCGTACCGAGCCGCAGGAAC-3′ and 5′-ATCTCGGTGACGGGCAGGAC-3′). Ten to 18 plants per cross were submitted to GUS assay. For segregation analysis of the mutants, seeds were surface-sterilized and plated onto medium (half-strength CITATION salts, 1% sucrose, and 0.9% agar, pH 5.7) supplemented with 50 mg/L kanamycin (mutants apc2-1 and apc2-3) or 15 mg/L hygromycin (mutant apc2-2). After 2 days at 4°C, the seeds were grown under 12-h-light/12-h-dark cycles at 22°C. The kanamycin or hygromycin phenotypes (resistant or sensitive) were scored after 2 weeks. Histochemical assays for GUS activity were performed on inflorescences (closed bud to mature fruit). Inflorescences were removed and placed in ice. Samples were infiltrated for 2.5 min under vacuum (−93.3 kPa) in fixation buffer (chloroform:ethanol:water, 3:6:1 [v/v/v]). Three washes then were performed in wash buffer (100 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, 0.5 mM ferrocyanide, 0.5 mM ferricyanide, and 0.1% Triton X-100); during the second wash, the samples were infiltrated under vacuum (−93.3 kPa) for 5 min. Finally, X-Glu buffer (100 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, 0.5 mM ferrocyanide, 0.5 mM ferricyanide, 0.1% Triton X-100, and 1.6 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-glucuronic acid diluted in DMSO) was added, and samples were infiltrated for 30 min under vacuum (−93.3 kPa) and placed at 37°C overnight. The next day, the GUS buffer was replaced with 95% ethanol to discolor the tissues. Siliques were prepared as described by CITATION with the following modifications: individual pistils or whole floral stems were fixed in 4% glutaraldehyde diluted in 15 mM Sorenen's buffer (4.66 mM Na2HPO4·2H2O and 2.06 mM KH2PO4, pH 7.2) for 2 h at room temperature, with the first half-hour under vacuum. The samples were dehydrated in graded ethanol baths (50, 70, 90, and 100%) for 10 min each. The samples then were cleared in toluene, mounted in Immersol 518F (Zeiss, Jena, Germany), and dissected, and the slides were sealed using nail polish. Confocal laser scanning microscopy was performed using a Zeiss LSM510 laser scanning confocal microscope with helium-neon laser excitation at 543 nm, and emitted light was collected through a 560-nm Long Pass filter using a Plan APOCHROMAT (63 × 1.4 oil differential interference contrast). The images are presented either as single sections or three-dimensional reconstituted images. Transmitted light images were taken using differential interference contrast (Nomarski) optics and helium-neon laser illumination at 543 nm. A peptide of 14 amino acids located in the C-terminal domain of the protein ([C]FGSMALERIHNTLK, where [C] indicates an extra Cys) was synthesized, linked to KLH carrier protein, and used to immunize rabbits. The antiserum was immunoaffinity purified against the same peptide bound to Sepharose matrix. For Arabidopsis CDC27A, a specific amino acid region (amino acids 256 to 372) excluding TPR domains was amplified by PCR and cloned into PQE31 vector containing an N-terminal 6× His tag (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). Recombinant protein was purified according to the manufacturer's recommendations. Polyclonal serum was obtained after three subsequent immunizations in two different rabbits. Sera were tested to determine affinity and specificity using ELISA and protein gel blot analysis (data not shown) and purified against the recombinant protein using Affigel-10 (Bio-Rad). The best serum was used in further immunolocalization experiments (1:200). The immunolocalization procedure was described by CITATION. Primary antibodies were used at the following concentrations: affinity-purified anti-APC2, 1:100; affinity-purified anti-CDC27A, 1:200; anti-α-tubulin, 1:200 (NeoMarkers, Fremont, CA). Fluorochrome-conjugated secondary antibodies (Jackson Immunoresearch, West Grove, PA) were used at the following concentrations: goat anti-rabbit fluorescein isothiocyanate, 1:200; goat anti-mouse tetramethyl rhodamine isothiocyanate, 1:200. Confocal laser scanning was performed with an inverse fluorescence microscope (Leica, Wetzlar, Germany). Upon request, materials integral to the findings presented in this publication will be made available in a timely manner to all investigators on similar terms for noncommercial research purposes. To obtain materials, please contact P. Genschik, pascal.genschik{at}ibmp-ulp.u-strasbg.fr. The accession number for the incomplete expressed sequence tag for APC2 is AV563067. DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank accession numbers for the sequences shown in Figure 1 are as follows: NP_013228 (for APC2_Sc), CAD62574 (for APC2_Sp), AAN10196 (for APC2_At), CAD41391 (for APC2_Os), NP_498762 (for APC2_Ce), AAM97765 (for APC2_Dm), NP_037498 (for APC2_Hs), Q12018 (for CDC53_Sc), NP_594259 (for Cul1_Sp), AAK76704 (for CUL1_At), AKK53839 (for CUL1_Os), Q17389 (for CUL1_Ce), AAD33676 (for CUL1_Dm), and NP_003583 (for CUL1_Hs).
