!~ABS~! ARG1 (ALTERED RESPONSE TO GRAVITY) is required for normal root and hypocotyl gravitropism. Here, we show that targeting ARG1 to the gravity-perceiving cells of roots or hypocotyls is sufficient to rescue the gravitropic defects in the corresponding organs of arg1-2 null mutants. The cytosolic alkalinization of root cap columella cells that normally occurs very rapidly upon gravistimulation is lacking in arg1-2 mutants. Additionally, vertically grown arg1-2 roots appear to accumulate a greater amount of auxin in an expanded domain of the root cap compared with the wild type, and no detectable lateral auxin gradient develops across mutant root caps in response to gravistimulation. We also demonstrate that ARG1 is a peripheral membrane protein that may share some subcellular compartments in the vesicular trafficking pathway with PIN auxin efflux carriers. These data support our hypothesis that ARG1 is involved early in gravitropic signal transduction within the gravity-perceiving cells, where it influences pH changes and auxin distribution. We propose that ARG1 affects the localization and/or activity of PIN or other proteins involved in lateral auxin transport.
!~RES~! Previous studies suggested that ARG1 might function in gravity signal transduction (CITATION). This hypothesis predicts that ARG1 would be required in the statocytes of hypocotyls and roots to mediate a wild-type gravitropic response. Thus, we sought to express ARG1 in the root and shoot statocytes of arg1-2 null mutant seedlings. To achieve this goal, we placed the ARG1 open reading frame under the control of either the RCP1 or the SCR promoter (pRCP1:ARG1 and pSCR:ARG1, respectively). The RCP1 promoter directs gene expression specifically in the root cap (CITATION), whereas the SCR promoter is active only in the endodermis of both shoots and roots (CITATION; CITATION). When transformed into arg1-2, the pRCP1:ARG1 construct was able to restore a wild-type gravitropic response to mutant roots (Figure 1A). In hypocotyls, this construct allowed only partial rescue of the arg1-2 gravitropic phenotype (Figure 1B). Conversely, pSCR:ARG1 was able to restore a wild-type gravitropic response to mutant hypocotyls but not to roots (Figures 1A and 1B). These observations, especially the rescue of mutant hypocotyls by pSCR:ARG1, suggest that the primary function of ARG1 in gravitropism lies in events that occur specifically within the statocytes. This conclusion is consistent with the hypothesis that ARG1 may be involved in the signal transduction phase of gravitropism. [[FIGURE]] Early physiological events associated with gravitropic signal transduction have been best described in root statocytes (reviewed by CITATION). Therefore, we focused our investigations of ARG1 function on its role in root gravitropism. One of the first manifestations of gravity signal transduction in roots is the alkalinization of their statocytes (CITATION; CITATION). Using the pH-sensitive 2,7-bis-(2-carboxyethyl)-5(and 6)-carboxyfluorescein–dextran reporter, we analyzed this process in arg1-2 and compared the response to that of wild-type plants. In vertically grown plants, the S3 columella cells of arg1-2 and wild-type plants showed similar, stable cytoplasmic pH levels of between 7.0 and 7.3 (Figure 2). Upon gravistimulation, wild-type S3 cells exhibited a transient increase in their cytoplasmic pH, which was not found in arg1-2 S3 cells (Figures 2A and 2B). This wild-type transient pH increase in response to gravistimulation in the Wassilewskija ecotype is similar to that reported previously for columella cells in the Columbia ecotype (CITATION). Similarly, the lack of a pH increase in arg1-2 is reminiscent of the reduced pH changes seen in pgm-1 root caps, which lack starch and show a severe impairment in gravity perception (CITATION). These observations suggest that arg1-2 disrupts a cellular event that contributes to the gravity-induced pH increase. [[FIGURE]] We investigated the pattern of auxin dynamics in arg1-2 seedlings by analyzing the activity of the auxin-responsive DR5 promoter (CITATION). arg1-2 plants harboring a DR5::β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene construct were generated from a cross between arg1-2 and a Columbia plant carrying this construct (CITATION). Plants homozygous for both arg1-2 and the DR5::GUS insertion, or for both ARG1 and the DR5::GUS insertion, were identified among the F2 progeny. Thus, the DR5::GUS insertion is present at the same locus in both the wild-type and mutant backgrounds. In the wild-type background derived from either the parental DR5::GUS line or the F2 segregants, GUS activity was maximal in the central columella cells of the root cap (Figure 3C). The flanking columella cells stained only faintly. In arg1-2 root tips, both central and flanking columella cells stained faster and more intensely for GUS activity than in the wild-type background (Figures 3A to 3D). These observations suggest that arg1-2 seedlings accumulate a higher level of auxin in an expanded domain of the root tip compared with wild-type seedlings. [[FIGURE]] Upon 90° gravistimulation, the activity of the DR5 promoter expanded toward the bottom flank of the root cap in wild-type seedlings. More intense GUS staining was seen in peripheral columella cells on the bottom flank compared with the top flank (Figure 3E). In the arg1-2 background, this asymmetry was not observed (Figure 3F). DR5::GUS expression was not observed in the EZ cells of the transformed roots. However, when gravistimulated in the presence of 1 μM 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), an auxin, wild-type roots exhibited greater DR5 activity at the bottom flank of the distal EZ (Figure 3G), as reported previously (CITATION). This gradient of DR5 activity also was observed across the distal EZ of arg1-2 roots (Figure 3H), suggesting that this region of arg1-2 was capable of displaying a lateral gradient of auxin concentration or responsiveness upon gravistimulation. Interestingly, even in the presence of 1 μM NAA, the gravity-induced auxin gradient was not observed in arg1-2 root caps (Figure 3H). To examine the subcellular localization of ARG1, we generated the green fluorescent protein (GFP)–ARG1 and cMyc-ARG1 constructs, which carry N-terminal GFP- or cMyc-tagged ARG1, respectively. These constructs contained genomic sequences that included a 3.8-kb sequence upstream of the ARG1 initiation codon (i.e., the native promoter), the ARG1 transcribed region, and a 3.3-kb downstream sequence. Both constructs retained the full coding sequence of ARG1 and were transformed into arg1-2. We assayed for the ability of these constructs to restore a wild-type gravitropic response to arg1-2 seedlings. Figures 1C and 1D show that roots and hypocotyls of arg1-2 carrying either construct exhibited gravitropism kinetics similar to that of the wild type. On the other hand, nontransgenic arg1-2 seedlings showed the expected alteration in their kinetics of root and hypocotyl reorientation compared with wild-type seedlings (CITATION). Thus, both constructs appeared functional and therefore should yield a fair representation of ARG1 localization. Analyses of the ARG1 expression pattern were performed on homozygous T3 plants and subsequent generations. Confocal and multiphoton microscopy were used to analyze the localization of ARG1 in live samples of GFP-ARG1 transgenic roots. GFP fluorescence was highest in the root tip region, which includes the root cap, the meristematic region, and the elongation zones (Figures 4A and 4B). A lower level of GFP fluorescence also was observed in the mature part of the root (data not shown), which is consistent with previous findings of ubiquitous ARG1 expression (CITATION). In cells of the root tip, we observed a diffuse and reticulated pattern of GFP-ARG1 (Figures 4A and 4B, red asterisks), compatible with ARG1 association with the ER (CITATION). In columella, root meristematic, and distal EZ cells, we also observed punctated signals (Figures 4A and 4B). The largest fluorescent dots were circular, oval (Figures 4A and 4B, white arrowheads), or linear in shape (Figures 4A and 4B, blue arrowheads), suggesting that they might correspond to Golgi stacks (CITATION). Other fluorescent dots were smaller and likely correspond to vesicles (Figures 4A and 4B). In cortical cells, the majority of these structures were localized to the subcortical region close to the plasma membrane, although some were found in transvacuolar strands (Figures 4B and 4B inset). A C-terminal GFP fusion of ARG1 showed a similar localization pattern (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Immunofluorescence analyses of transgenic seedlings carrying the cMyc-ARG1 construct revealed a similar localization pattern, but the signals were more diffuse (Figure 4C), possibly as a consequence of the fixation step needed in this assay. To investigate the association of ARG1 with the vesicle-trafficking pathway, we treated these seedlings before fixation with brefeldin A (BFA), a compound shown to disrupt vesicle trafficking. The cMyc-ARG1 fusion protein became associated with distinct BFA-induced compartments (Figure 4D). These structures were comparable to compartments in which specific proteins from the trans-Golgi network, the plasma membrane, and cell walls accumulate in response to BFA (CITATION; CITATION). In a double immunofluorescence labeling experiment, AGR1/AtPIN2, a transmembrane component of the auxin efflux machinery, accumulated in the same subcellular compartments as cMyc-ARG1 upon BFA treatment (Figures 4E and 4F). Normally, AGR1/AtPIN2 resides at the plasma membrane of the epidermal and cortical cells of the distal EZ (Figure 4G) (CITATION; R. Chen and P.H. Masson, unpublished data). The effect of BFA on the localization of both cMyc-ARG1 and AGR1/AtPIN2 was reversible. Both proteins assumed their normal localization if the BFA pretreatment was followed by a 2-h wash in BFA-free medium (data not shown). Together, these observations indicate that ARG1 likely resides in cellular compartments that participate in vesicular trafficking. This trafficking pathway may be the same pathway that is used by AGR1/AtPIN2 in distal EZ cells. GFP-ARG1 and cMyc-ARG1 fusion proteins also were found to be associated with the cell plate, as indicated by double immunofluorescence staining of cMyc-ARG1 and α-tubulin (Figure 4H). Accordingly, treatment of transgenic seedlings with 10 μM oryzalin, a microtubule-destabilizing compound, resulted in GFP-ARG1 localization at aberrant cell division planes (Figure 4I). ToPred, a protein topology prediction program, predicted a single-pass transmembrane region between the J domain and the predicted coiled-coil region of ARG1 (CITATION). However, this region also is rich in Gly and Phe, suggesting that it might instead act as a linker between the J domain and the C terminus, similar to the Gly/Phe-rich region of many DnaJ-like proteins (CITATION; CITATION). Furthermore, no signal peptides or potential post-translational membrane association motifs could be identified in ARG1 by sequence analysis (data not shown). Because GFP-ARG1 appeared to localize to the ER, the Golgi, and vesicles near the plasma membrane, we took a biochemical approach to investigate ARG1's association with plant membranes. We prepared microsomal membrane and soluble protein fractions from liquid cultures of cMyc-ARG1 transgenic plants, because the localization pattern of ARG1 was preserved among different root tissues (Figures 4A and 4B). Immunoblot analyses with anti-cMyc antibodies indicated that cMyc-ARG1 was associated primarily with the microsomes and was barely detectable in the soluble fraction (Figure 5A). This association was sensitive to the presence of a denaturing agent (3 and 8 M urea, data not shown and Figure 5B, respectively) and to a high-pH environment (0.1 M Na2CO3, pH 11.5) (Figure 5B). The sensitivity of ARG1's membrane association with these compounds strongly suggests that ARG1 associates peripherally with plant membranes and indicates that it is not an integral membrane protein. [[FIGURE]] The association of ARG1 with the microsomes was not affected by changes in the redox potential of its environment (up to 1 mM DTT), nor was it modified by a change in ionic interactions (up to 2 M NaCl) (Figure 5B). However, it was sensitive to the presence of Triton X-100 (Figure 5B), indicating that it interacts directly or indirectly with integral membrane proteins. Yet, a small portion of ARG1 remained in the pellet, even when AtSEC12, an integral ER membrane protein (CITATION), was solubilized almost completely by Triton X-100. This fraction of ARG1 could have been retained in the pellet by means of its interaction with the cytoskeleton, which is resistant to Triton X-100 extraction (CITATION). Sequence analyses of ARG1 also revealed the similarity of its predicted coiled-coil region to the coiled coil of cytoskeleton-interacting proteins, such as INCENP (CITATION). To further investigate the possible ARG1-cytoskeleton association, we analyzed the fractionation of cMyc-ARG1 after a round of cytoskeleton depolymerization and repolymerization. The cytoskeleton was depolymerized partially by treatment of the cytoskeleton-enriched microsomal pellets with 0.5 M KI (CITATION; CITATION). A large portion of ARG1 was released from the pellet by this treatment (Figure 5C). Upon the removal of KI through dialysis, actin subunits repolymerized and were collected in the pellet (Figure 5C). Immunoblot analyses revealed that some ARG1 protein was associated with the same pellet, although some remained in the supernatant (Figure 5C). This observation suggested that a small pool of ARG1 might be associated with the cytoskeleton. Unfortunately, the low abundance of ARG1 in this pool precluded a more thorough analysis of such interactions. Thus, the association of ARG1 with microsomal membranes likely is mediated through its interaction with other membrane-associated proteins and possibly partly through its direct or indirect interaction with the cytoskeleton. We attempted to identify the types of membrane that ARG1 is associated with. Nucleus-free total protein extracts from 2-week-old etiolated cMyc-ARG1 transgenic plants were fractionated on a continuous 14 to 50% sucrose gradient. cMyc-ARG1 was found to fractionate in a range of the gradient at which markers from the plasma membrane (PM H+-ATPase) and other membranes, including the ER (AtSEC12) and the Golgi (α-mannosidase), can be found (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The pattern of cMyc-ARG1 fractionation also overlapped partially with that of an endosomal marker, AtPEP12 (CITATION) (Figure 6A). This observation is consistent with ARG1's association with cellular compartments involved in membrane trafficking and with the cell plates. [[FIGURE]] Because ARG1 likely was associated with multiple membranes, we sought to determine its relative distribution in the plasma membrane versus other membranes. The plasma membrane was fractionated from the microsomal membranes using a two-phase partitioning method (CITATION). Immunoblot analyses showed that the PM H+-ATPase control was enriched in the upper-phase plasma membrane fraction and almost absent from the lower phase, which contains the majority of other membranes (Figure 6B). On the other hand, most of the AtSEC12 was retained in the lower phase, indicating that the plasma membrane fraction was relatively pure. cMyc-ARG1 was found in both fractions (Figure 6B), although there appeared to be less ARG1 per milligram of protein in the plasma membrane fraction than in the other fraction, in agreement with our immunofluorescence and GFP fluorescence data (Figures 4A to 4D, 4H, and 4I) and with the sucrose gradient experiment (Figure 6A). Surprisingly, the mobility of cMyc-ARG1 was altered in the plasma membrane fraction. This mobility shift probably is an electrophoresis artifact, possibly resulting from the high polyethylene glycol content within that phase. Indeed, when a more sensitive detection method was used, some AtSEC12 also was found in the plasma membrane fraction, and its mobility was shifted similarly to cMyc-ARG1 (data not shown).
!~MM~! The arg1-2 and agr1-5 mutants were isolated in the Wassilewskija and Estland backgrounds, respectively, of Arabidopsis thaliana (CITATION; CITATION). pgm-1 (TC7) and DR5::GUS-transformed seeds in the Columbia background (CITATION; CITATION) were obtained from T. Caspar (Dupont Central Research and Development, Wilmington, DE) and T.J. Guilfoyle (University of Missouri, Columbia, MO), respectively. arg1-2 plants carrying the DR5::GUS construct were derived from crosses between arg1-2 and the DR5::GUS-transformed plant. Plants homozygous for arg1-2 were identified based on the BamHI restriction polymorphism associated with this allele (CITATION). Plants homozygous for the DR5::GUS insertion were identified based on histochemical staining (see below). Seeds were germinated on germination medium containing half-strength CITATION salts with macronutrients and micronutrients and 1.5% (w/v) sucrose (premixed media obtained from Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, and/or Caisson Laboratories, Sugar City, ID) solidified with type-E agar (Sigma, St. Louis, MO). Plant growth conditions were as described (CITATION). For biochemical analyses, seeds were germinated in liquid GM medium on a 100-rpm rotary platform. Three-day-old seedlings germinated in GM medium containing 0.8% (w/v) agar were gravistimulated by 90° rotation in darkness. Plates were photographed at specified time intervals after gravistimulation with a Nikon COOLPIX800 digital camera (Tokyo, Japan). Root and hypocotyl tip angles were measured using NIH Image software version 1.62 (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/nih-image/). Root cells were pressure-microinjected with 2,7-bis-(2-carboxyethyl)-5(and 6)-carboxyfluorescein linked to dextran (molecular weight 10,000) (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR), and fluorescence ratio images were analyzed and calibrated as described previously (CITATION). Root cells were categorized as being microinjected successfully if they maintained turgor, cytoplasmic streaming, and cytoplasmic structure during the experiment. Seedlings were examined with a Nikon Diaphot 300 epifluorescence microscope mounted on its back so that its rotatable stage was vertical with a Lambda 10-c filter wheel (Sutter, Novato, CA) in the excitation path. Each root was imaged while growing vertically and upon gravistimulation by rotating the vertical stage through 90°. Roots were observed with 440- or 480-nm excitation interference filters (20-nm half bandwidth), a 490-nm dichroic mirror, and a 520- to 560-nm emission filter (Omega Optical, Brattleboro, VT). Images were collected using a SenSys cooled charge-coupled device camera (Photometrics, Austin, TX) and processed using IPLabs Spectrum image-analysis software (Scanalytics, Fairfax, VA). Standard molecular techniques were used (CITATION). Restriction enzymes and T4 DNA ligase were obtained from New England Biolabs (Beverly, MA). Native Pfu DNA polymerase for PCR was obtained from Stratagene (La Jolla, CA). Primers were custom-ordered from Integrated DNA Technologies (Coralville, IA). To generate the cMyc-ARG1 and GFP-ARG1 constructs, a XhoI-SacI fragment of the genomic BAC 4N22 DNA (CITATION), containing the ARG1 promoter and part of the ARG1 open reading frame (ORF), was subcloned into pBluescript KS− (Stratagene). The ARG1 promoter region was amplified from this plasmid with a T3 promoter primer and 5′-GGGTCTAGAGGGCCCGGGCTTCTCGAAGAATTTGAA-3′. For the cMyc-ARG1 construct, part of the ARG1 coding region was amplified by PCR with the primer 5′-CCCTCTAGAATGGAGCAAAAGCTTATCAGTGAGGAAGACTTGAGCGCGAAAAAGCTTG-3′, containing a cMyc epitope (CITATION), and a T7 promoter primer. The promoter and the coding region were ligated using the XbaI sites that were designed into the primers. The product was used to replace the XhoI-SacI ARG1 wild-type sequence in an Asp718 fragment of BAC 4N22 that had been subcloned previously into pBIN19 (CITATION). For the GFP-ARG1 construct, the ARG1 coding region was amplified with the primers 5′-CCCTCTAGAATGAGCGCGAAAAAGC-3′ and T7. This fragment was ligated to the ARG1 promoter and subcloned into pBIN19 as described above. The mGFP5 ORF lacking the basic chitinase endoplasmic reticulum signal sequence was amplified from pBIN m-gfp5-ER (provided by Jim Haseloff) with the primers 5′-CCCCCCGGGATGAGTAAAGGAGAAGAAC-3′ and 5′-GGGTCTAGAAAGCTCATCATGTTTG-3′ and subcloned between the SmaI and XbaI sites of the same plasmid immediately upstream of the ARG1 coding region. To generate the pSCR:ARG1 construct, the SCR promoter (CITATION; CITATION) was amplified from Wassilewskija genomic DNA using the primer pair 5′-AGCTCTGCAGTGGTCCGGTGGTCT-3′ and 5′-ATTCGTCGACGGAGATTGAAGGGTTGT-3′. For the pRCP1:ARG1 construct, the RCP1 promoter was amplified from plasmid pKSSS (CITATION) provided by N.V. Fedoroff using the primer pair 5′-CCCCCTGCAGGTCACTTTCTAAATGT-3′ and 5′-TATCGTCGACGTCACTTGGGTTTGGAACAG-3′. The ARG1 ORF was amplified from the cDNA (CITATION) with the primer pair 5′-AAATTAGTCGACAAGATGAGCGCGAAAAAGCT-3′ and 5′-AACAAACCCGGGCTCTGATCAACCAAGCTTC-3′. The promoters were subcloned into pCAMBIA1390 (CAMBIA, Canberra, Australia; provided by A. Bleecker) between the PstI and SalI sites. The ARG1 ORF then was subcloned into the resulting plasmids between the SalI and XmaI sites to obtain pSCR:ARG1 and pRCP1:ARG1, which carry the SCR and RCP1 promoters, respectively. Transformations of Arabidopsis with the constructs described above were performed as described by CITATION. Total proteins were isolated from 3-week-old plants grown in liquid cultures. Plant tissues were homogenized with a Dounce homogenizer (Kontes Glass Co., Vineland, NJ) in a 2× volume of MIB [20 mM Hepes-KOH, pH 7.0, 50 mM KOAc, 1 mM Mg(OAc)2, 250 mM sorbitol, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF), a 1:200 dilution of protease inhibitor cocktail for plant extracts (PIC; Sigma), and 1 mM DTT]. A postnuclear supernatant (S1) was prepared by centrifugation at 1000g for 10 min at 4°C. The microsomes were prepared by centrifugation at 150,000g for 45 min at 5°C. The supernatant (S150) was separated from the pellet (P150), which was resuspended in MIB for further analyses. Protein concentrations were determined using the Bio-Rad Protein Assay Kit (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA) with bovine plasma γ-globulin as the standard. The microsomes (P150) were diluted (>20 fold) in MIB or MIB lacking DTT but containing NaCl, urea, KI, Triton X-100, or Na2CO3 at the concentrations specified in Results. The dilutions were incubated at room temperature for 30 min and centrifuged at 300,000g for 30 min at 20°C. Supernatants were concentrated by precipitation as described by CITATION. Pellets were rinsed and resuspended in MIB. cMyc-ARG1 association with the cytoskeleton was analyzed using a variation of the procedures described by CITATION and CITATION. Briefly, cytoskeleton-enriched pellets were prepared from the microsomes by treatment with 1% (v/v) Triton X-100 in CSB (5 mM Hepes-KOH, pH 7.0, 10 mM MgCl2, 2 mM EGTA, 0.1 mM sodium orthovanadate, 1 mM PMSF, and a 1:200 dilution of PIC) for 20 min at 4°C followed by a 20 min centrifugation at 50,000g. The pellets were treated for 20 min at 4°C with 0.5 M KI in 5 mM Hepes-KOH, pH 7.0, 100 mM KCl, 2 mM EGTA, 0.1 mM sodium orthovanadate, 1 mM PMSF, and a 1:200 dilution of PIC to depolymerize the cytoskeleton. Then, the samples were centrifuged at 40,000g for 20 min at 4°C. The resulting supernatant was dialyzed against 3 L of CSB (with 5 mM benzamidine hydrochloride instead of PIC) over a 24-h period at 4°C to remove KI. Repolymerized cytoskeletal elements were collected after a 5-min centrifugation at 12,000g and 4°C. The pellets were resuspended in CSB. A total of 3.5 mg of a postnuclear supernatant (S1) was applied to a 10-mL continuous gradient of 14 to 50% (w/w) sucrose in MIB with a 0.5-mL 60% (w/w) sucrose cushion. The gradient was centrifuged for 2 h at 150,000g and 4°C. Fractions (0.4 mL) were collected as described previously (CITATION). Plants were homogenized in Serrano buffer (0.25 M Tris-HCl, pH 8.5, 25 mM EDTA, 1.15 M sucrose, 1 mM PMSF, and β-mercaptoethanol), and the microsomes were prepared as described above. P150 pellets were resuspended in 0.33 M sucrose, 4 mM KCl, and 5 mM K-phosphate, pH 7.8, and applied to the phase mixture (CITATION). After mixing, phases were separated by a 5-min centrifugation at 1000g and 4°C. The upper phase was purified twice more against fresh lower phase solution (obtained from the phase system; CITATION). The upper phase was diluted in a 2× volume of 10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, and 0.33 M sucrose. The lower phases were pooled and diluted four times in the same buffer. Membranes were pelleted at 150,000g and 5°C for 45 min. Protein gel blot analyses were performed as described (CITATION). Anti-cMyc, clone 9E10 (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA), anti-actin, clone C4 (Chemicon International, Temecula, CA), and anti-α-tubulin antibodies, clone B-5-1-2 (Sigma), were used at dilutions of 1:200, 1:1000, and 1:3000, respectively. Anti-AtSEC12, anti-AtPEP12, anti-PM H+-ATPase, anti-vacuolar pyrophosphatase, and anti-α-mannosidase antibodies were provided by S.Y. Bednarek and used at a dilution of 1:1000 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; S.Y. Bednarek, personal communication). Horseradish peroxidase–conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG and goat anti-rabbit IgG antibodies (Pierce, Rockford, IL) were used at a dilution of 1:10,000. Seedlings were incubated for up to 24 h at 37°C in 70 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, containing 1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronic acid, cyclohexylammonium salt (Research Organics, Cleveland, OH), 2 mM K3Fe(CN)6, and 10% (v/v) methanol, unless stated otherwise. Samples were cleared subsequently as described by CITATION. Gravistimulated samples on medium without 1-naphthaleneacetic acid were stained as described in the legend to Figure 3 for equal intensity and cleared with chloral hydrate:water:glycerol (8:2:1, w/w/v). Samples were mounted in 50% (v/v) glycerol for examination with a Nikon Optiphot 2 microscope equipped with Nomarski optics. Immunolocalization of ARG1 and PIN proteins was as described by CITATION with modifications. Four-day-old seedlings were fixed in 4% (w/v) p-formaldehyde in PME (50 mM Pipes-KOH, pH 6.9, 5 mM MgSO4, and 10 mM EGTA) for 1 h at 25 mm Hg. For cell wall digestion, samples were incubated for 20 min in 0.5% (w/v) macerozyme R-10 and 0.1% (w/v) pectolyase Y-23 in PME. Primary and secondary antibodies were diluted in PME containing 3% (w/v) BSA and 1% (v/v) goat serum. Colocalization with α-tubulin was as described by CITATION with modifications. Samples were fixed in 4% (w/v) p-formaldehyde in 50 mM Pipes-KOH, pH 7.0, and 1 mM CaCl2 for 1 h at 25 mm Hg. Cell wall digestions and antibody incubations were as described above but using Pipes/CaCl2 buffer. In all cases, samples were mounted in Vectashield (Vector Laboratories, Burlingame, CA) and imaged with a Bio-Rad MRC-1024 laser scanning confocal microscope (Keck Biological Imaging Laboratory, University of Wisconsin, Madison) with excitation lines of 488, 568, and 647 nm and emission band-path filter sets of 522, 605, and 680 nm. Anti-cMyc antibodies, clone 9E10 and A-14 (Santa Cruz Biotechnology), were used at a dilution of 1:200. Anti-α-tubulin, clone YOL1/34 (Harlan, Indianapolis, IN), was used at a dilution of 1:100. Anti-AGR1/AtPIN2 polyclonal antibodies were raised against a peptide containing amino acids 379 to 503 of the AGR1/AtPIN2 protein, affinity-purified as described (CITATION), and used at a dilution of 1:200. Rhodamine-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG (Jackson ImmunoResearch, West Grove, PA) and fluorescein isothiocyanate–conjugated goat anti-mouse Fab antibodies (Sigma) were used at a dilution of 1:300. For visualization of GFP signals, excised roots from 4-day-old seedlings were mounted live in water and examined with a Bio-Rad MRC-1024 confocal microscope (Keck Biological Imaging Laboratory) with a 488-nm excitation line and a 522-nm emission band-path filter or a multiphoton optical workstation equipped with a Ti:sapphire laser tuned to 900 nm (CITATION) (Laboratory for Optical and Computational Instrumentation, University of Wisconsin). Upon request, materials integral to the findings presented in this publication will be made available in a timely manner to all investigators on similar terms for noncommercial research purposes. To obtain materials, please contact Patrick H. Masson, phmasson{at}wisc.edu
