!~ABS~! Null-mutations of the Arabidopsis FKBP-like immunophilin TWISTED DWARF1 (TWD1) gene cause a pleiotropic phenotype characterized by reduction of cell elongation and disorientated growth of all plant organs. Heterologously expressed TWD1 does not exhibit cis-trans-peptidylprolyl isomerase (PPIase) activity and does not complement yeast FKBP12 mutants, suggesting that TWD1 acts indirectly via protein-protein interaction. Yeast two-hybrid protein interaction screens with TWD1 identified cDNA sequences that encode the C-terminal domain of Arabidopsis multidrugresistance-like ABC transporter AtPGP1. This interaction was verified in vitro. Mapping of protein interaction domains shows that AtPGP1 surprisingly binds to the N-terminus of TWD1 harboring the cis-trans peptidyl-prolyl isomerase-like domain and not to the tetratrico-peptide repeat domain, which has been shown to mediate protein-protein interaction. Unlike all other FKBPs, TWD1 is shown to be an integral membrane protein that colocalizes with its interacting partner AtPGP1 on the plasma membrane. TWD1 also interacts with AtPGP19 (AtMDR1), the closest homologue of AtPGP1. The single gene mutation twd1-1 and double atpgp1-1/atpgp19-1 (atmdr1-1) mutants exhibit similar phenotypes including epinastic growth, reduced inflorescence size, and reduced polar auxin transport, suggesting that a functional TWD1-AtPGP1/AtPGP19 complex is required for proper plant development.
!~RES~! Loss-of-function mutation of the Arabidopsis FKBP-like immunophilin TWISTED DWARF1 (TWD1) gene results in dramatic differences in growth and organ development in comparison to wild type. The pleiotropic mutant phenotype is characterized by reduction of cell elongation and disorientated growth of nearly all plant organs. Leaves and cotyledons of twd1-1 show epinastic growth, hypocotyls are shorter and root growth is reduced in the light, but enhanced in the dark. Cell elongation in twd1-1 plants is severely impaired, which results in a dwarf phenotype (see Figure 1; Schulz et al., unpublished results). Heterologously expressed TWD1 does not exhibit a PPIase activity (CITATION) and does not complement yeast FKBP12 shown by its inability to restore the sensitivity toward rapamycin, which is caused by disruption of the FKBP12 gene in yeast (our unpublished results). Therefore, we assumed that TWD1 acts indirectly via protein-protein interactions. Screening of an Arabidopsis cDNA library made from suspension culture with the entire cytosolic domain of TWD1 as bait (BusB, TWD1 amino acid [aa] residues 1–337, Figure 2B) resulted in more than 1800 His-auxotrophic clones. Fortyeight β-galactosidase-positive prey clones were sequenced and six of those encoded C-terminal peptides of multidrug resistance-like ABC transporter (ABCB1) AtPGP1 (CITATION; CITATION). Colony hybridization with these cDNA clones revealed that ∼7% of all clones harbored AtPGP1-like sequences. The specificity of TWD1 interaction with AtPGP1 was confirmed using unrelated CBL1 and CIPK proteins (CITATION) as positive and GAL4-binding domain (BD) or activation domain (AD) alone not interacting with TWD1 or AtPGP1 as negative controls, respectively (Figure 2A). [[FIGURE]] All TWD1-interacting AtPGP1 prey constructs coded for the C-terminus of AtPGP1 carrying the C-terminal nucleotide binding fold covering the Walker A and B boxes and the intermediate ABC signature (CITATION; CITATION). Similar galactosidase activities with all AtPGP1 clones suggest that a peptide of 237 aa (aa residues 1049–1286) is sufficient for interaction. To assess whether the TPR domain—a 34-aa long protein-protein interaction motif (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) localized in the C-terminal part of TWD1—was responsible for the interaction with AtPGP1, we generated GAL4-BD fusions covering the PPIase-like (aa residues 1–163) and the TPR domains (aa residues 163–337) of TWD1. Surprisingly, AtPGP1 interacted only with the N-terminus containing the PPIase-like domain, but not with the TPR domain containing part of TWD1 (Figure 2B), as can be judged from the β-galactosidase activity test on colonies as well as growth on plates lacking histidine. Very recently, both AtPGP1 and its closest homolog At-PGP19 (AtMDR1) were copurified by NPA affinity chromatography (CITATION) and have been implicated in polar auxin transport (CITATION; CITATION). To test whether the C-terminus of AtPGP19 was also able to bind to TWD1, we generated GAL4-AD fusions of a homologous stretch of AtPGP19 (aa residues 965-1252). AtPGP19 interacted specifically with TWD1 in the yeast two-hybrid system, whereas the C-termini of related multidrug-resistance ABC transporters AtPGP2, AtPGP10, AtPGP13, and AtPGP14 did not (Figure 3A). β-galactosidase and HIS-auxotrophy assays suggest similar strengths of interaction for AtPGP1 and AtPGP19 with the TWD1 construct BusB. However, the interacting domain of AtPGP19 could not be mapped clearly to either the PPIase-like or TPR domain of TWD1 (Figure 3B). [[FIGURE]] To verify the two-hybrid data in vitro, AtPGP1 peptide 4F12 was expressed in E. coli, which was shown as Coomassie stain and Western detection using anti-RGSH6 in Figure 2C (lanes 2 and 6). TWD1–3 (aa residue 1–337) was affinity-purified on Ni-NTA agarose (Figure 2C, lane 1, Coomassie stain, and lane 5, Western detection using anti-penta His) and immobilized on affigel beads. The TWD1 affinity matrix was able to quantitatively sediment the AtPGP1 C-terminus of 42 kDa from soluble E. coli extracts shown by Western analysis of corresponding amounts of bound (P) and unbound fractions (SN). Monoclonal anti-RGSH6 and anti-penta His were used to recognize the AtPGP1 C-terminus and TWD1–3, respectively (Figure 2C, lanes 9 and 10). This high ratio (100%) indicates the specificity of TWD1-AtPGP1 interaction. As eukaryotic glycoproteins are not glycosylated when expressed in E. coli, this result suggests that the interaction of TWD1 with AtPGP1 is dependent on primary amino acid sequence interactions rather than interactions of TWD1 with carbohydrate moieties. Using the same pair of antisera, no AtPGP1 protein was detected in bound fractions of controls in which a vector control lysate (Figure 2C, lane 11) or the empty affigel resin (Figure 2B, lane 15) was used. As a specific control, we tested the C-terminus of plasma membrane H+-ATPase AHA2, which binds to 14-3-3 proteins (CITATION). The AHA2 C-terminus (aa residues 850–948) that was expressed as GST fusion of ∼30 kDa and immunodetected with anti-ACA4N27 antiserum (CITATION) against the GST-tag did not bind to the TWD1 matrix (Figure 2C, lane 13). The C-terminus of TWD1 contains a hydrophobic α-helical region (residues 339–357) with the potential to form a membrane anchor predicted by hydrophobicity analysis. To demonstrate that TWD1 is indeed a membrane-anchored protein, the TWD1 protein was N-terminally tagged with a HA-epitope and expressed in transgenic plants. Pellets of microsomal membrane fractions prepared from HA-TWD1–expressing plants were treated either with chaotropic agent KSCN, high salt, carbonate, or TX-100. TWD1 could only be released from microsomes by solubilization with high concentrations (1% vol/vol) of the detergent TX-100 (Figure 3A), indicating that TWD1 is in fact a membrane anchored, rather than peripheral membrane protein. AtPGP1 has been localized in the plasma membrane (CITATION), suggesting that TWD1 resides as well on the plasma membrane. To test this assumption, membranes prepared from Arabidopsis plants overexpressing a HA-epitope–tagged form of TWD1 were separated by linear sucrose gradient density centrifugation. Both polyclonal anti-TWD1 antiserum and a monoclonal anti-HA antibody detected HA-TWD1 (48 kDa) in fractions 10–13 (sucrose concentrations of 34 and 44%) of the sucrose gradient (Figure 4B). TWD1 colocalized with the plasma membrane marker H+-ATPase AHA3 and AtPGP1 (same distribution of peak fractions 11–14, Figure 4B). Markers for other membranes, such as the vacuolar V-ATPase subunit B or BIP, an ER-specific marker, cross-reacted with other fractions. Anti-TWD1 recognized additionally a smaller 40-kDa protein; detection of this protein with the monoclonal anti-HA antibody suggested that it represents a degradation product of TWD1. [[FIGURE]] To confirm these data, microsomal membranes from wild-type Arabidopsis suspension cultures were separated by aqueous two-phase partitioning. Efficient partitioning of internal cell membranes to the bottom phase and plasma membranes to the top phase was ascertained by Western blotting using anti-sera against the vacuolar V-ATPase, plasma membrane–bound AtPGP1, and H+-ATPase (CITATION), revealing no cross-contamination of both membrane types (Figure 4C). A protein band corresponding to the expected size of TWD1 was detected in the top fraction of phase partitioning with anti-TWD1 antisera confirming its plasma membrane location (Figure 4C). These biochemical fractionation data were supported by cellular immunolocalization of HA-TWD1 protein in transgenic plant cells by laser scanning microscopy. Protoplasts from leaves were treated with anti-HA antibody, which was decorated with a FITC-conjugated secondary antiserum. Optical sections showed that transgenic protoplasts were FITC labeled at the periphery (green in Figure 5, A and C), which is consistent with a plasma membrane localization of TWD1. Protoplasts treated only with the secondary antiserum revealed no background and wild-type material treated with both antibodies resulted in only very faint peripheral background (Figure 5E). [[FIGURE]] Subsequent recording of chlorophyll autofluorescence using TRITC filter settings showed that this fluorescence is limited exclusively to the chloroplasts (red in Figure 5B), which revealed no peripheral fluorescence around the protoplasts. Superimposed false green and red images represent images obtained with FITC and TRITC filters. A different strategy to detect TWD1-AtPGP interaction in plant cells was followed by showing that on the one hand TWD1 is excluded from solubilized microsomal protein preparations separated by anion exchange chromatography after treatments with NPA (Figure 6A). On the other hand, using HA-TWD1 protein, isolated from overexpressing plants as a ligand to anti-HA-epitope resin, we were able to immobilize AtPGP proteins from microsomal membrane preparations and visualize them using a polyclonal anti-PGP1 antibody (CITATION). NPA treatments elute AtPGP1 and AtPGP19, illustrating a specific interaction between TWD1 and those two transporters (Figure 6B). Identities of both upper bands was verified by MALDI analysis of tryptic fragments (unpublished results), whereas the identity of a third band of lower molecular weight is unknown. [[FIGURE]] To demonstrate the TWD1/AtPGP1 complex in vivo, AtPGP1 was immunoprecipitated from solubilized wild-type membrane microsomes after cross-linking with thiol-cleavable DTBP (Figure 6C). Cross-linking was used, because strong detergent treatment is essential to solubilize both proteins from the plasma membrane. These treatments were expected to disrupt protein-protein interaction (CITATION). To prevent contamination of the eluate with the heavy chain of rabbit anti-AtPGP1—running at similar size than TWD1—the primary antibody was additionally immobilized to protein G by cross-linking. The absence of heavy chain antibodies was verified using only secondary antibodies detecting no band even after prolonged exposure (unpublished data). Wild-type TWD1, which is slightly smaller than HATWD1 (Figure 6C, lane 1), was indeed detectable (Figure 6C, lane 3) using anti-TWD1 antiserum, suggesting coprecipitation with AtPGP1 (Figure 6C, lane 4). This was the case under reducing conditions (+DTT), which cleave the DTBP cross-linker. The intensity of a TWD1 band under reducing conditions was approximately 10 times higher than under nonreducing conditions (unpublished data). This faint signal is not surprising as acidic elution of the complex can result in partial cleavage of sulfur double bonds of the cross-linker. No TWD1 could be detected in control experiments using empty protein G (Figure 6C, lane 2). Measurements of polar auxin transport in hypocotyls of atpgp19-1 (atmdr1-1) and atpgp1-1 mutants shows reduction of auxin transport between 44 and 77%. This reduction in transport activity is more drastic in the double mutant atpgp1-1/atpgp19-1 (atmdr1-1), where the transport is reduced to 24% of wild-type plants. Polar auxin transport in twd1 mutants is reduced to 14% of wild-type plants even when no mutations in AtPGP1 and AtPGP19 are present (Figure 7). The methods used to measure auxin transport in this article represent a refinement of those used in Noh et al. (CITATION) (see MATERIALS AND METHODS). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seedlings were grown on 0.5× MS medium (Duchefa, Haarlem, The Netherlands) containing 1% sucrose under continuous light. Plants grown on soil were grown under white light (photon flux rate, 100 μmol m–2 s–1; 8-h light/16-h dark cycle at 20°C). The coding region of the TWD1 gene from codon 1–337 was amplified by PCR (BUSUP: 5′ gga aaa acc atg gat gaa tct ctg gag cat caa act c, BUSdownB: 5′gga aaa agg atc ctt agc tct ttg act tag cac cac c) and cloned in frame via NcoI and BamHI restriction sites into pAS2, generating a protein fusion between TWD1 and the GAL4 DNA-binding domain (pAS2-BusB). The bait construct pAS2-BusB was used to screen an Arabidopsis cell suspension cDNA library inserted into pACT2 (CITATION). Fast-growing colonies were selected on SD plates lacking leucine, tryptophan, and histidine with 50 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole and β-gal–positive clones were sequenced. To identify the interaction domain of the TWD1 protein, subclones of pAS2BusB were constructed. The PPIase-like domain (aa residues 1–163) and TPR domain omitting the membrane anchor (aa residues 163–337) of TWD1 were fused to the Gal4 BD of vector pAS2 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA). The nucleotide sequences encoding the C-termini of AtPGP10 (MIPS code At1g10680, base pairs 2812–3681), AtPGP13 (At1g27940, base pairs 2872–3735), AtPGP14 (At1g28019, base pairs 2876–3744), and AtPGP19 (At3g28860, base pairs 2893–3756) were cloned by two-step RT-PCR. Therefore, total RNA from Arabidopsis thaliana (Wassilewskija ecotype) grown in liquid culture under mixotrophic conditions was prepared using the RNA Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). cDNA was generated from 1 μg of RNA using the M-MLV Reverse Transcriptase, RNase H– Point Mutant DNA Polymerase (Promega, Madison, WI) and the following gene-specific primers located in the 3′ untranslated region of the genes: AtPGP10: 5′ ttc ctt tca aga atg aat agc; AtPGP13: 5′ gtg tcc aga tat tcc tga cac; AtPGP14: 5′ tag ata ttc cca aca caa tcg; and AtPGP19: 5′ cat agt tca gtc tta tgt tcc. The C-termini were inserted into pACT2 after PCR amplification using Vent DNA Polymerase (New England Biolabs, Frankfurt, Germany), and the following primers (UP/LP): AtPGP10: 5′ acg gaa ttc tgg gtg aag tgt tgg ctc tag/5′ acg ctc gag tta agg atg atg gcg ctg ccg; AtPGP13: 5′ acg gaa ttc tgt cgg aaa cgc ttg ctt tga/5′ acg ctc gag tca cag tac ttc ttg aag act c; AtPGP14: 5′ acg gaa ttc tgg cgg aaa cgc ttg cgt taa cc/5′ acg ctc gag tca cac cgc ttc ttg aag act c; and AtPGP19: 5′ acg cca tgg aaa ctc tca gtc ttg ctc ctg/5′ acg gga tcc tca aat cct atg tgt ttg aag c. AtPGP2 (At4f25860) was amplified by PCR from the plasmid Y97 using the primers (UP/LP): 5′ acg gaa ttc tgg aga cat tgg ctc tag ctc cg/5′ acg ctc gag tta agg ttg ttg ctg ctg ctg. All RT-PCR products were sequenced to verify the absence of mistakes. For interaction analysis, three to five independent transformants of two independent constructs were tested for HIS auxotrophy and LacZ (β-galactosidase) reporter activity. Single colonies were resuspended in 1 ml of sterile water and 5 μl each were spotted on SD plates lacking leucine, tryptophan, and histidine containing 25 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole. Another 5 μl were spotted on plates with selective media supplemented with 30 μg/ml 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-α-d-galactopyranoside (X-α-Gal). Growth was judged after 3 d. β-galactosidase activity was quantified by liquid culture assay using standard protocols. PCR-amplified TWD1 (Primers: JOE1: 5′ cgg gat ccc agg ttg att tgg gaa ata atg g and 6118: 5′ ggg ggt aga tct ttc acg ttg) was restricted with BamHI and BglII and inserted into the BamHI-site of pQE31 (Qiagen). Restriction of the PCR product with BamHI and SspI removed the putative membrane anchor and the resulting fragment corresponding to aa residue 1–324 was ligated into BamHI- and SmaI-digested pQE31 (pTWD1–3). TWD1–3 peptides as N-terminal RGSH6 tagged fusions were purified on Ni-NTA agarose (Qiagen) under native conditions and dialyzed twice against 50 mM MOPS, pH 7.0. Immunodetection of TWD1–3 on Western blots was performed with polyclonal antiserum against TWD1-1 peptide (see Immunocytochemistry and Confocal Fluorescence Microscopy Analysis). The insert of clone pACT2–4F12 encoding the C-terminus of AtPGP1 was cut out from the two-hybrid vector using BglII sites flanking the insert and ligated in-frame into the BamHI site of pQE32 (Qiagen). The resulting peptides were expressed as an N-terminal 6× His-tagged fusion protein in Escherichia coli strain BL21D3 pLysC (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) and immunoprobed with polyclonal antiserum against AtPGP1 peptide (CITATION). Ni-NTA-affinity–purified TWD1–3 peptides were immobilized to affigel-10 beads (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA) as recommended by the manufacturer. Matrix-bound TWD1–3 (1 μg) was incubated for 1 h at 4°C with cleared E. coli supernatants from cells overproducing the C-terminus of AtPGP1, H+-ATPase AHA2 (expressed from plasmid pMP900; CITATION) or vector control lysates diluted twice with binding buffer (50 mM MOPS, pH 7.4, 100 mM NaCl, 10% [vol/vol] glycerol, 2 mM CaCl2, 2 mM MgCl2). After washing of the matrix-protein complex with binding buffer, the bound proteins were eluted by boiling the matrix with probe buffer and equal volumes of bound and nonbound protein were detected by Western blot analysis using monoclonal anti-RGSH6, antipenta His (both from Qiagen) and anti-ACA4N27 (CITATION) recognizing the AtPGP1 C-terminus, TWD1–3, and the GST fused to the AHA2 C-terminus, respectively. Individual bands were quantified using the Scion Image software 1.63 ( http://www.scioncorp.com). Equal volumes of Arabidopsis microsomes, separated by continuous sucrose gradient centrifugation, were blotted onto nitrocellulose membranes and probed with anti-AHA3 antiserum (no. 762; 1:3000), anti-V-ATPase antiserum (2E7; 1:200), anti-BIP antiserum (tobacco BIP; 1:5000), anti-AtPGP1 antiserum (1:1000), anti-TWD1 antiserum (1:1000), and monoclonal antibodies anti-HA (clone 12CA5; 1:3000, Roche Diagnostics, Basel, Switzerland) and anti c-myc (clone 9E10; 1:3000, Roche Diagnostics) as described in Geisler et al. (CITATION). Plasma membranes were purified by one-step aqueous two-phase partitioning of Arabidopsis microsomes in a 6.2% (wt/wt) dextran T500/PEG4000 phase system containing 3 mM KCl and 5 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.8. Arabidopsis microsomes were prepared from 75 g of a 4-d-old cell suspension culture (cell line T87) grown in the dark (CITATION). Arabidopsis plants, ecotype Columbia, were transformed with an expression construct for a hemagglutinin (HA)-tagged TWD1 protein. Therefore, the entire open reading frame of TWD1 was amplified by PCR (TAGfor1: 5′ gac ctc gag gtt aac aat ggc tta and TAGrev1: 5′ cgc gga tcc gga gcg taa tca ggt aca tcg) and inserted into the BamHI site of cloning vector pRTΩ-NotI (CITATION). To fuse the 9-aa-long HA1-tag to the TWD1 peptide, the construct was digested with XhoI and BamHI to remove the Ω-sequence from tobacco mosaic virus, which was replaced by an HA1-tag with compatible ends (pRTΩ-NotI3/4T). The cassette containing the CaMV 35S promoter and the HA-tagged TWD1 gene was excised with AscI and inserted after Klenow fill-in into the blunted HindIII site of binary vector pPTV-BAR (B. Schulz, B. Saal, D. Wanke, M. Lafos, H.Ü. Kolukisaoglu, B.P. Dilkes, and K.A.J. Feldman, unpublished results). The resulting binary construct pPTV3/4/2T was used to transform Arabidopsis via vacuum infiltration using Agrobacterium strain GV3101. BASTA resistant transformants were selected on soil and a line containing a single copy T-DNA was selected by Southern blot hybridization (our unpublished results). For TWD1 antiserum production, a partial peptide (TWD1-1) comprising the first 187 aa of TWD1 was cloned into pET3-His, expressed as a 6× His-tag version in E. coli strain Bl21DE3 (Stratagene) and purified under denaturing conditions by Ni-NTA agarose chromatography. The purified protein was subjected to preparative SDS-PAGE and the eluted band was used for anti-serum production performed by BioGenes Inc. (Berlin, Germany) using standard protocols. Protoplasts from leaves of HA-TWD1–expressing plants were prepared and fixed, and immunocytochemistry was performed as described in CITATION. Incubations with monoclonal anti-HA high affinity antibody (clone 12CA5; Roche, Rotkreuz, Switzerland) and secondary anti-mouse antibody coupled to FITC (Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories, West Grove, PA) were performed for 1 h with a 1:100 dilution. FITC and TRITC fluorescence was detected with the corresponding filter sets and stored images were colored as green (FITC) or false colors (TRITC) using Adobe PhotoShop 5.5 (Adobe Systems Inc., San Jose, CA). Immunoprecipitations were carried out using the Seize X Protein G Immunoprecipitation Kit and the imidoester cross-linker DTBP according to the manufacturer (Pierce, Rockford, IL). Approximately 500 μg of Arabidopsis microsomes, prepared as described above, were cross-linked at 4°C and membrane proteins were solubilized using 2% (vol/vol) TX-100. Cleared lysates were loaded on anti-AtPGP1 columns made by binding and crosslinking of the antiserum to protein G. After washing, bound proteins were eluted, separated by PAGE in the presence or absence of DTT, and probed against anti-TWD1 antisera. Solubilized microsomal proteins were prepared from 6 d, light-grown, HATWD1–overexpressing seedlings and separated by anion exchange chromatography as described previously (CITATION) with the exception that the phase-separation enrichment of plasma membrane proteins and preliminary gel permeation chromatography steps were eliminated and the solubilization buffer contained 50 μM naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA) where noted. After SDS-PAGE, Western blots were prepared utilizing anti-HA-epitope (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) and alkaline phosphatase–conjugated goat anti-rabbit polyclonal antibodies and visualized with Lumiphos (Roche, Indianapolis, IN) reagent. Separately, native HA-tagged TWD1 was purified from microsomal membrane proteins of HA-TWD1–overexpressing plants solubilized with 50 μM NPA (see above) utilizing immobilized anti-HA affinity resin (Roche). After extensive washing with PBS, solubilized microsomal proteins were incubated with the affinity matrix for 4 h at 4°C, and washed extensively with PBS. Immobilized proteins were then eluted with 30 μM NPA in PBS and visualized by SDS PAGE and Western blotting with a polyclonal anti-AtPGP1 antibody (CITATION) and goat anti-rabbit antibody as above. Auxin transport assays were conducted on intact light grown seedlings as described previously (CITATION; CITATION), with the following exceptions: seedlings (WS wild-type, twd1-1, atpgp1-1, atpgp19-1, and atpgp1-1/atpgp19-1) used in the transport assays were grown in light on 1% phytagar plates containing 0.25× MS (pH 5.2) and 1% sucrose until hypocotyl lengths reached 5 mm. Before assay, 10 seedlings were transferred to vertically discontinuous filter paper strips saturated in 0.25× MS and allowed to equilibrate for 1.5 h. Auxin solutions used to measure transport were made up in 0.25% agarose containing 2% DMSO and 25 mM MES (pH 5.2). Using microscope-guided micromanipulators, a 0.1-μl microdroplet containing 500 nM unlabeled IAA and 500 nM [3H]IAA (specific activity 25 Ci/mmol, American Radiochemical, St. Louis, MO) was placed on the apical tip of seedlings. Seedlings were then incubated in the dark for 5 h. After incubation, the upper hypocotyls and cotyledons were removed, and a 2-mm section centered on the root-shoot transition zones was harvested, along with a 4-mm basal section of each root.
