!~ABS~! Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins (GPI-APs) are a functionally and structurally diverse family of post-translationally modified membrane proteins found mostly in the outer leaflet of the plasma membrane in a variety of eukaryotic cells. Although the general role of GPI-APs remains unclear, they have attracted attention because they act as enzymes and receptors in cell adhesion, differentiation, and host-pathogen interactions. GPI-APs may represent potential diagnostic and therapeutic targets in humans and are interesting in plant biotechnology because of their key role in root development. We here present a general mass spectrometry-based proteomic “shave-and-conquer” strategy that specifically targets GPI-APs. Using a combination of biochemical methods, mass spectrometry, and computational sequence analysis we identified six GPI-APs in a Homo sapiens lipid raft-enriched fraction and 44 GPI-APs in an Arabidopsis thaliana membrane preparation, representing the largest experimental dataset of GPI-anchored proteins to date. 
!~RES~! We have integrated protein fractionation methods, mass spectrometry, and bioinformatics techniques into a proteomic “shave-and-conquer” strategy aimed at defining an extensive inventory of GPI-APs in human and plant cells. The strategy is summarized in Fig. 1. Triton X-114 detergent-based two-phase separation was used for partitioning membrane proteins and soluble proteins (CITATION) in membrane fractions from Homo sapiens (raft-enriched fractions) and A. thaliana (microsomes). The isolated membrane fractions were treated with phosphatidylinositol phospholipase C (Bacillus cereus, PI-PLC) enzyme in the presence of Triton X-114 by adapting the method of Hooper et al. (CITATION). This enzyme hydrolyzes the phosphatidylinositol, releasing the soluble GPI protein from the membrane/detergent phase and enabling its recovery in the aqueous phase. As the PI-PLC enzyme used in the present study recognizes a specific GPI anchor structure, probably only a subset of GPI-APs is released from the membrane preparations. Some GPI anchors are modified by acylation at the 2- and/or 3-position of the inositol ring prohibiting cleavage by PI-PLC (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] The protein sample isolated in this way was concentrated by precipitation and separated by SDS-PAGE. Silver staining of the SDS-PAGE gels demonstrated that a range of proteins were selectively recovered upon PI-PLC treatment of human raft-enriched membranes (Fig. 2A, II) and plant membrane preparations (Fig. 2B, IV) as compared with the untreated samples. Furthermore, Western blotting using anti-CRD antibody specific for the C terminus of PI-PLC-treated GPI-anchored protein demonstrated that GPI-APs were highly enriched in the aqueous phase after PI-PLC treatment of raft-enriched membranes (Fig. 2A, I) and plant membranes (Fig. 2B, III). In summary, these data demonstrate that membrane fractionation methods in combination with PI-PLC treatment enable significant enrichment of a range of GPI-anchored proteins from human and plant cells.  [[FIGURE]] Next, the recovered proteins were analyzed and identified by mass spectrometry. Twelve consecutive protein bands were excised from the SDS-PAGE gel containing the GPI-AP-enriched fraction from human raft-enriched fractions as indicated in Fig. 2A. Protein samples were in-gel digested with trypsin, and the recovered peptides were separated and sequenced by nanoscale HPLC interfaced to electrospray ionization quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry. For each nanoscale liquid chromatography-MS/MS run, the complete set of peptide tandem mass spectra was submitted for protein sequence database searching. A total of 17 human proteins were identified (Table I) comprising the initial set of putative GPI-APs. To eliminate false positive and false negative assignments of GPI-APs among this set of proteins we applied computational methods for amino acid sequence analysis and assignments of GPI-APs.  [[TABLE]] Two GPI-AP prediction tools, big-PI (mendel.imp.univie.ac.at/gpi/gpi_server.html) and DGPI (www.expasy.org/tools/), were used to screen the 17 candidate human GPI-APs. Six known human GPI-APs were correctly assigned by both methods, except carboxypeptidase M, which was not predicted by big-PI (Table I). In addition, the 11 identified proteins that are not members of the GPI-anchored protein family were also correctly assigned as such by these computational methods (Table I). This lack of false positive assignments is in accordance with a recent report that estimates the sensitivity of current GPI-AP prediction tools to be 80–90% with a false positive rate of only 0.1–0.2% (CITATION).  Thus, the combination of sensitive, selective, and specific experimental and computational proteomic methods facilitates identification and assignment of GPI-anchored membrane proteins. This is further illustrated by the fact that these six human GPI-APs comprise the largest set of GPI-APs recovered and identified in a single study of lipid raft-enriched membranes to date.  The general utility of the integrated experimental and computational strategy for identification of GPI-APs was investigated by using an A. thaliana cell membrane preparation (see “Experimental Procedures”). PI-PLC treatment and SDS-PAGE separation demonstrated significant enrichment of GPI-anchored proteins (Fig. 2B). A total of 16 protein bands (Fig. 2B, IV) were cut out, processed, and analyzed by mass spectrometry. The liquid chromatography-MS/MS data obtained from Band 1 is shown in Fig. 3. The tandem mass spectrum corresponding to the tryptic peptide VDDGDSEISLDR was the only detectable peptide originating from the At4g27520 protein in this experiment. Nevertheless, the high quality of the quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrum enabled unambiguous identification of the cognate protein via protein sequence database searching. A total of seven proteins were identified in Band 1. Overall, sequence database searching by peptide tandem mass spectra led to the identification of a total of 64 proteins in the 16 protein bands obtained from the SDS-PAGE gel (Tables II and III).  [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]] Because of the lack of general and sensitive techniques for experimental verification of the 64 putative GPI-APs identified in this experiment, we again applied bioinformatics methods to further characterize these proteins. In addition to big-PI and DGPI, the list of putative A. thaliana GPI-APs predicted by Dupree and co-workers (CITATION) (mips.gsf.de/proj/thal/db/index.html) was reviewed.  Of the 64 identified proteins, 44 were predicted to be GPI-APs by at least one of the computational techniques (Table I). Sixteen of the identified proteins were assigned as GPI-APs by two of the three computational methods, whereas 26 proteins were assigned as GPI-APs by all three methods. Two β-1,3-glucanases were assigned as GPI-APs by one computational method only: At2g27500 as predicted by DGPI and At5g61130 as predicted by Borner et al. (CITATION). None of the three computational techniques assigned all of the 44 GPI-APs, suggesting that further tuning is necessary and that the combination of several experimental and computational techniques is advantageous for this purpose.  The 20 “contaminant proteins” were all assigned as non-GPI-APs by all three computational methods (Table III). They either correspond to secreted proteins (i.e. had only a signal peptide but no hydrophobic C terminus) or were regular membrane proteins (i.e. contained at least one “true” transmembrane domain).  We manually inspected the 44 positively assigned GPI-anchored protein sequences and found that all of them had a cleavable signal peptide, a hydrophobic C terminus of at least 10 residues, and no internal transmembrane domains, as found by “Membrane Protein Explorer” (blanco.biomol.uci.edu/mpex/). We could assign putative ω-sites to most of the 44 GPI-APs (Fig. 4), which represented Ser, Ala, Asn, or Gly residues and were 8–11 residues upstream of the hydrophobic C terminus. In some cases, up to two large residues were found near the ω-site. These observations suggest an unusually large flexibility in the length of the spacer region as well as volume compensation in the active site that recognizes the ω − 1–ω + 2 site (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! After serum starvation HeLa cells were lysed in 100 mm Na2CO3, pH 11.0, and mechanically disrupted by 10 strokes in a Dounce homogenizer and three 20-s bursts of a probe sonicator. The lysates were clarified and combined with an equal volume of 90% sucrose in MES-buffered saline (MBS) (150 mm NaCl, 25 mm MES, pH 6.5) for a final sucrose concentration of 45%. This solution was then placed in the bottom of an ultracentrifuge tube as the base of a discontinuous sucrose gradient. Additional layers consisting of 35 and 5% sucrose in MBS were gently placed on top, and the whole gradient was centrifuged at 166,000 × g for 18 h at 4 °C. The resulting low density light-scattering band (∼18% sucrose) was extracted, diluted 4× in Na2CO3, and centrifuged for a further 2 h (166,000 × g, 4 °C) to pellet the raft-enriched membranes (REM) (CITATION, CITATION).  Suspension cultures of A. thaliana were maintained as described previously (CITATION). Plasma membranes were prepared as reported (CITATION) using a homogenization buffer containing 250 mm sucrose, 100 mm HEPES/KOH, pH 7.5, 15 mm EGTA, 5% glycerol, 0.5% polyvinylpyrrolidone K 25, 3 mm dithiothreitol, and 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride at 2 ml/g of fresh weight. Microsomal membranes were resuspended in buffer R (250 mm sucrose, 5 mm potassium phosphate, pH 7.5, 6 mm KCl) and subjected to phase partitioning (CITATION) in 6.0% each dextran T-500 and polyethylene glycol 3350 in buffer R. For removal of external soluble proteins, plasma membranes were washed with 100 mm Na2CO3.  Two-phase separation was performed based on the work of Bordier (CITATION). Membranes were equilibrated by resuspending the pellet in buffer A (20 mm Hepes, pH 7.5, 0.2 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 0.5 tablet of protease inhibitor/ml) and were pelleted again at 20,000 × g for 20 min. The membrane fraction was resuspended in 100 μl of buffer A, and then the same volume of Triton X-114 was added and mixed to homogeneity. The mixture was chilled on ice for 5 min and then transferred to 37 °C for 20 min for phase separation. The aqueous supernatant was discarded, and the procedure was repeated. The detergent phase was recovered, and 100 μl of buffer A with 2 units of PI-PLC (Molecular Probes Inc., Eugene, OR) was added; the mixture was incubated at 37 °C with shaking. After 1 h, phase separation was performed, and the aqueous supernatant was recovered. Buffer and enzyme were added again, and the procedure was repeated. The two resulting supernatants were pooled, and the proteins were recovered by acetone precipitation, separated by SDS-PAGE, and visualized by silver staining. Protein bands were cut out and in-gel digested with trypsin (CITATION).  The GPI-enriched fraction was separated by SDS-PAGE and transferred to polyvinylidene difluoride membranes. Immunoblotting against cross-reacting determinant (CRD) was performed as described previously (CITATION–CITATION).  Automated nanoflow liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometric analysis was performed using a quadrupole time-of-flight Ultima mass spectrometer (Micromass UK Ltd., Manchester, UK) employing automated data-dependent acquisition. A nanoflow HPLC system (UltiMate, Switchos2, FAMOS from LC Packings, Amsterdam, The Netherlands) was used to deliver a flow rate of 175 nl/min. Chromatographic separation was accomplished by loading peptide samples onto a homemade 2-cm fused silica precolumn (75-μm inner diameter and 360-μm outer diameter; Zorbax® SB-C18 5 μm, Agilent, Wilmington, DE) using autosampler essentially as described by Licklider et al. (CITATION). Sequential elution of peptides was accomplished using a linear gradient from Solution A (0% acetonitrile in 1% formic acid, 0.6% acetic acid, 0.005% heptafluorobutyric acid) to 40% of Solution B (90% acetonitrile in 1% formic acid, 0.6% acetic acid, 0.005% heptafluorobutyric acid) in 30 min over the precolumn in-line with a homemade 8-cm resolving column (75-μm inner diameter and 360-μm outer diameter; Agilent Zorbax® SB-C18 3.5 μm). The resolving column was connected using a fused silica transfer line (20-μm inner diameter) to a distally coated fused silica emitter (360-μm outer diameter, 20-μm inner diameter, 10-μm tip inner diameter; New Objective, Cambridge, MA) biased to 2.6 kV.  The mass spectrometer was operated in the positive ion electrospray ionization mode with a resolution of 9,000–11,000 full-width half-maximum using a source temperature of 80 °C and a countercurrent nitrogen flow rate of 150 liters/h. Data-dependent analysis was employed (three most abundant ions in each cycle): 1-s mass spectrometry (m/z 350–1,500) and maximum 4-s MS/MS (m/z 50–2,000, continuum mode) with 30-s dynamic exclusion. A charge state recognition algorithm was employed to determine optimal collision energy for low energy collision-induced dissociation MS/MS of peptide ions. External mass calibration using NaI resulted in mass errors of less than 50 ppm, typically 5–15 ppm in the m/z range 50–2,000. Raw data was processed using MassLynx 3.5 ProteinLynx (smooth 3/2 Savitzky Golay and center 4 channels/80% centroid), and the resulting MS/MS dataset was exported in the Micromass pkl format. Automated peptide identification from raw data was performed using an in-house MASCOT server (version 1.8) (Matrix Sciences, London, UK) using the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) non-redundant protein database with the following constraints: tryptic cleavage after Arg and Lys, up to two missed cleavage sites, and tolerance of ±0.5 for MS and ±0.2 for MS/MS fragment ions. Carbamidomethylcysteine (C) was specified as a fixed modification, and deamidation of Asn and Gln and oxidation of Met were specified as partial modifications. Most of the GPI-APs (five of six in HeLa cells and 34 of 44 in A. thaliana cells) were identified based on two or more different peptide tandem mass spectra matching to each individual protein. A total of 11 GPI-APs were each identified based on one peptide sequence obtained by tandem mass spectrometry (one in HeLa cells and 10 in A. thaliana cells). In these cases the tandem mass spectra were manually inspected to validate the data and the corresponding protein sequence assignments. 
