!~ABS~! The AGAMOUS (AG) gene is necessary for stamen and carpel development and is part of a monophyletic clade of MADS-box genes that also includes SHATTERPROOF1 (SHP1), SHP2, and SEEDSTICK (STK). Here, we show that ectopic expression of either the STK or SHP gene is sufficient to induce the transformation of sepals into carpeloid organs bearing ovules. Moreover, the fact that these organ transformations occur when the STK gene is expressed ectopically in ag mutants shows that STK can promote carpel development in the absence of AG activity. We also show that STK, AG, SHP1, and SHP2 can form multimeric complexes and that these interactions require the SEPALLATA (SEP) MADS-box proteins. We provide genetic evidence for this role of the SEP proteins by showing that a reduction in SEP activity leads to the loss of normal ovule development, similar to what occurs in stk shp1 shp2 triple mutants. Together, these results indicate that the SEP proteins, which are known to form multimeric complexes in the control of flower organ identity, also form complexes to control normal ovule development.
!~RES~! Previous experiments showed that the redundant petunia genes FBP7 and FBP11 were necessary for ovule identity determination and sufficient to induce ectopic ovule formation on sepals and petals (CITATION). STK is highly similar to these petunia genes and, together with SHP1 and SHP2, essential for ovule formation (CITATION). To determine whether ectopic STK expression also is sufficient to induce ectopic ovule formation, Arabidopsis plants were transformed with a chimeric gene construct in which the STK cDNA coding region was fused to the Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S double enhancer containing promoter (CITATION, CITATION). Sixty independent transgenic Arabidopsis lines were selected. Expression analysis of the transgene by reverse transcriptase–mediated (RT) PCR using RNA extracted from leaves revealed that of all the transgenic lines expressed STK ectopically (data not shown). Forty-five transgenic plants flowered extremely early (before the fourth leaf appeared), and the flowers of these plants had petals and stamens that were reduced in size; sometimes the petals were completely absent (Figure 1B). Furthermore, the first-whorl sepals were converted to carpeloid organs on which ovules developed, and in a few cases, the bract leaves were homeotically converted to carpeloid organs on which ovules developed (Figures 1C and 1D). To study these homeotic changes in more detail, scanning electron microscopy analysis was performed. As shown in Figures 1F and 1G, stigmatic papillae developed on the edges of the first-whorl organs. The carpeloid organs in the first whorl very often were folded, and on the inner site, ovule-like structures developed (Figure 1H). Structures that are typical for wild-type ovules, such as the developing inner and outer integuments, the funiculus, and the nucellus, could be recognized clearly in these ectopic ovules (Figures 1I and 1J). [[FIGURE]] RT-PCR performed on leaves of the CaMV 35S::STK transgenic plants showed that ectopic STK expression resulted in the induction of ectopic SHP1, SHP2, AG, and SEP3 expression (Figure 2). [[FIGURE]] Ectopic expression of SHP1 and SHP2 (data not shown) resulted in the conversion of sepals to carpeloid structures, as described for STK, and the conversion of petals to stamenoid structures, confirming the data published by CITATION. These experiments show clearly that ectopic STK, SHP1, and SHP2 activities are able to induce the carpel and ovule pathways in these transgenic plants. The carpeloid structures observed in the first-whorl floral organs of the STK, SHP1, and SHP2 overexpression plants resembled closely those observed in Arabidopsis plants in which AG was expressed ectopically (CITATION). Furthermore, RT-PCR revealed that STK, when expressed ectopically, induced ectopic AG expression. To understand whether the observed homeotic conversions were dependent on AG activity, we transformed ag-3 mutant plants (CITATION, CITATION) with the construct for ectopic STK expression. In the ag-3 mutant flowers petals developed in place of stamens, and instead of carpels, four sepals arose that constituted the outer whorl of another inner ag flower (Figures 3A and 3B). The CaMV 35S::STK construct was used to transform ag-3/+ heterozygous plants, which were distinguished from wild-type plants using PCR primer-introduced restriction analysis (CITATION). We analyzed 80 transgenic CaMV 35S::STK plants segregating for the ag mutant allele, all of which ectopically expressed STK. [[FIGURE]] Forty heterozygous plants (ag-3/+) ectopically expressing STK showed the same phenotype as those observed previously when wild-type plants were transformed: they were small as a result of extremely early flowering, and their sepals frequently were homeotically converted to carpeloid organs. Twenty transgenic ag mutant (ag-3/ag-3) plants ectopically expressing STK were obtained and analyzed. These mutants flowered extremely early as well, maintaining a small size, and generally the flowers resembled typical ag-3 flowers. However, in two plants, homeotic conversion of the first-whorl sepals to carpeloid organs was observed (Figures 3C to 3E), suggesting that AG activity is not needed for the STK-induced homeotic transformations. Furthermore, in a flower of one of these plants, a pistil-like structure developed in the fourth whorl (Figure 3F). However, when we opened this pistil, no ovules were detected. RT-PCR analyses performed on leaves of the transgenic plants that showed homeotic conversions (Figure 2) revealed that STK induced the ectopic expression of SHP1, SHP2, and SEP3, suggesting that the observed phenotypes could be promoted by SHP1 and SHP2 genes that are responsible for AG-independent carpel development (CITATION). Surprisingly, ovules were detected on none of the first-whorl organs that showed carpeloid features. To investigate whether STK, SHP1, SHP2, and AG redundancy in promoting ovule and carpel formation was based on a biochemical interaction, we performed GAL4-based yeast two-hybrid experiments to assay the interactions between STK, AG, SHP1, and SHP2. The coding parts of the AG, SHP1, SHP2, and STK cDNAs were fused to the activation domain (AD) and binding domain (BD) and tested for interaction. In this assay, STK was not able to interact with AG, SHP1, and SHP2, and no interactions between SHP1, SHP2, and AG were observed (Figure 4A). Furthermore, none of the proteins was able to form homodimers. [[FIGURE]] Because previous studies showed that the SEP proteins interact with AP1, AP3, PI, and AG in the control of organ identity (CITATION; CITATION), we tested whether or not the SEP proteins could interact similarly with STK. These assays showed that SEP3 interacted with STK (Figure 4A). Because STK, SEP3, and AG all are expressed during ovule development, we wondered whether the STK and AG proteins, which do not appear to interact on their own, might form a multimeric complex that also includes SEP3. To test this notion, yeast three-hybrid experiments were performed by fusing the SEP3 protein with the nuclear localization signal of the TFT vector (CITATION). As presented in Figure 3B, yeast strain PJ69-4A was able to grow on selective medium only when all three proteins were expressed, showing that an interaction between STK and AG can be mediated by SEP3. Furthermore, as shown in Figure 4A, SHP1 and SHP2 also were able to form heterodimers with SEP3. Therefore, we tested SEP3 and combinations of SHP1, SHP2, STK, and AG in the three-hybrid system. As shown in Figure 4B, SHP1 and SHP2 interacted, via SEP3, strongly with AG and weakly with STK. In fact, all combinations could be made using SEP3 as an intermediate, even interactions with themselves. The data obtained in the yeast assays described above suggest that SEP proteins are necessary to form transcription factor complexes that control ovule development. However, previous studies have failed to reveal a role for the SEP genes during ovule development, because the sep triple mutant completely lacks carpels. To reveal genetic evidence that the SEP genes are involved in ovule development, we reduced SEP activity by examining SEP1/sep1 sep2 sep3 mutant plants. Interestingly, the ovules of these plants (Figure 5B) have a dramatic phenotype that closely resembles that observed in the stk shp1 shp2 mutant (Figure 5C). Normal ovule and seed development was disrupted, and some of the ovules were converted to leaf-like or carpel-like structures. These data demonstrate that the SEP genes are required for normal ovule development. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia was used for the STK, SHP1, and SHP2 ectopic expression experiments. The plants were grown at 22°C under long-day conditions (16 h of light/8 h of dark) in a mixture composed of 2.5:0.5 soil:vermiculite. The ag-3 mutant ecotype Landsberg was provided by R. Sablowski (John Innes Centre, Norwich, UK). The genotype of the ag-3/+-derived plants was analyzed with a PCR-introduced restriction site polymorphism (CITATION). DNA was amplified with the primers RSA-1 (5′-GTCGATTTCAGAAAATAAGAGCTC-3′) and RSA-5 (5′-GAAGTATTACCCGAATCCGCCCCAAGAAG-3′), and the product was digested with BslI. Fragments amplified from the wild-type allele were digested, whereas the ag-3 allele–derived PCR product was undigested. Fragments that differed by 20 bp were analyzed on a 3% agarose gel (2% low-melting-point agarose and 1% agarose). For ectopic STK expression in wild-type and heterozygous Arabidopsis ag-3 mutant plants, the STK cDNA was cloned under the control of a double 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV). The cDNA was amplified by PCR with the primers OL216 (5′-ATACCATGGGAAGAGGAAAGATAG-3′) and OL217 (5′-CGGGATCCAGATTATCCGAGATGAAGAA-3′) and cloned as a NcoI-BamHI fragment between the CaMV 35S promoter and a poly(A) terminator in a modified pUC19 vector. Introduced EcoRI and NcoI sites are underlined. The fragment containing the double CaMV 35S promoter, STK cDNA, and the poly(A) terminator was cloned as a AscI-PacI fragment in pCAMBIA1300. For ectopic SHP1 and SHP2 expression in Arabidopsis, the cDNAs were cloned under the control of a double CaMV 35S promoter. The SHP1 open reading frame was amplified with OL525 (5′-AATTCCAGCTGACCACCATGGAGGAAGGTGGGAGTAGTCAC-3′) and OL526 (5′-GATCCCCGGGAATTGCCATGTTACACAAGTTGAAGAGGAGGT-3′), and the open reading frame of SHP2 was amplified with OL531 (5′-AATTCCAGCTGACCACCATGGAGGGTGGTGCGAGTAATGAA-3′) and OL532 (5′-GATCCCCGGGAATTGCCATGTCAAACAAGTTGCAGAGGTGG-3′), and cloned in the Gateway overexpression vector pGD625 (derived from pGD120) (CITATION) passing through pDONOR 201 (Life Technologies, Carlsbad, CA). Binary vectors were used to transform Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1/pMP90 (CITATION). Arabidopsis plants were transformed using the floral dip method described by CITATION. The seeds derived from the T0 35S::STK transformants were selected on medium containing 20 μg/mL hygromycin, and after 2 weeks, seedlings were transferred to soil. Hygromycin-resistant plants were analyzed for the presence of the CaMV 35S::STK transgene by PCR using primers based on the CaMV 35S sequence (OL212; 5′-CTCGGATTCCATTGCCCAGCTAT-3′) and on the STK sequence (OL218; 5′-TGGAGTTTTGAATCGTTTGGA-3′). The seeds obtained from the T0 35S::SHP1 and 35S::SHP2 transformants were selected on medium containing 50 μg/mL kanamycin, and after 2 weeks, resistant seedlings were transferred to soil. Kanamycin-resistant plants were analyzed for the presence of the transgene by PCR using the primers OL212 and OL526 for SHP1 and the primers OL212 and OL532 for SHP2. STK, SHP1, SHP, AG, and SEP3 expression was assayed by RT-PCR. RNA was extracted from leaves (CITATION) and retrotranscribed with RT-Superscript II (Life Technologies). STK, SHP1, SHP, AG, and SEP3 were amplified subsequently with specific primers and analyzed on agarose gels. Plant material was fixed overnight in 3% glutaraldehyde in 0.025 M phosphate buffer, pH 7, at 4°C, washed subsequently in 0.025 M phosphate buffer, pH 7, and incubated for 4 h in 1% osmic acid in 0.05 M phosphate buffer, pH 7. Samples were washed again in 0.05 M phosphate buffer, pH 7, dehydrated gradually in an ethanol series of 25, 50, 70, 85, 95, and 100%, and dried in liquid carbon dioxide. Samples then were covered with gold, placed in a Nanotech sputter coater, and observed with a LEO 1430 scanning electron microscope (LEO Electron Microscopy, Thornwood, NY). The two- and three-hybrid assays were performed in Saccaromyces cerevisiae strain PJ69-4A (CITATION) as described previously (CITATION). pBD, pAD, and pTFT1 (CITATION) vector constructs were selected on Yeast Synthetic Dropout (YSD) medium lacking Leu, Trp, and adenine, respectively. Three-hybrid interactions were assayed on selective YSD medium lacking Leu, Trp, adenine, and His supplemented with different concentrations of 3-aminotriazole (1, 3, 5, 10, and 20 mM). β-Galactosidase tests were performed according to CITATION. Genes used for the yeast two- and three-hybrid assays were cloned in the Gateway vector GAL4 system (pDEST32 for binding domain fusions and pDEST22 for activation domain fusions) passing through pDONOR201 (Life Technologies). The cDNA of the genes was amplified by PCR with specific primers containing the attB1 and attB2 sequences for homologous recombination. Plasmids used as BD vectors were NOB249 for STK, NOB256 for AG, NOB250 for SHP1, and NOB284 for SHP2. Plasmids used as AD vectors were NOB246 for STK, NOB257 for AG, NOB247 for SHP1, NOB282 for SHP2, NOB283 for SEP1, and NOB245 for SEP3. pTFT1 was digested with EcoRI-SalI. SEP3 cDNA was amplified with the primers OL340 (5′-CGGAATTCGGAAGAGGGAGAGTAGAATT-3′) and OL304 (5′-CGCTCGAGTCAAATAGAGTTGTTGTCATAAGGTAACC-3′), digested with EcoRI and XhoI, and subcloned in pTFT1. Introduced EcoRI and NcoI sites are underlined. Upon request, materials integral to the findings presented in this publication will be made available in a timely manner to all investigators on similar terms for noncommercial research purposes. To obtain materials, please contact Lucia Colombo, lucia.colombo{at}unimi.it.
