!~ABS~! To identify new components in the phytochrome (phy) signaling network in Arabidopsis, we used a sensitized genetic screen for deetiolation-defective seedlings. Two allelic mutants were isolated that exhibited reduced sensitivity to both continuous red and far-red light, suggesting involvement in both phyA and phyB signaling. The molecular lesions responsible for the phenotype were shown to be mutations in the Arabidopsis PSEUDO-RESPONSE REGULATOR7 (PRR7) gene. PRR7 is a member of a small gene family in Arabidopsis previously suggested to be involved in circadian rhythms. A PRR7–β-glucuronidase fusion protein localized to the nucleus, implying a possible function in the regulation of photoresponsive gene expression. Consistent with this suggestion, prr7 seedlings were partially defective in the regulation of the rapidly light-induced genes CIRCADIAN CLOCK ASSOCIATED1 (CCA1) and LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL (LHY), observable as a premature increase in expression level during the second peak of the biphasic induction profile that is elicited upon initial exposure of dark-grown seedlings to light. A similar 3- to 6-h coordinated advance in peak free-running expression of CCA1, LHY, and TIMING-OF-CAB1, which are considered to encode the molecular components of the circadian oscillator in Arabidopsis, was observed in entrained fully green prr7 seedlings compared with wild-type seedlings. Collectively, these data suggest that PRR7 functions as a signaling intermediate in the phytochrome-regulated gene expression responsible for both seedling deetiolation and phasing of the circadian clock in response to light.
!~RES~! Many seedlings were selected in a screen for reduced sensitivity to Rc, but two independently isolated M3 lines, which were suspected to be novel mutants, are described here. Allelism tests performed with M4 plants from these lines showed that the long-hypocotyl phenotype was not complemented in the F1 generation, which demonstrated that these two lines constituted one complementation group (data not shown). Further tests showed that these mutant alleles complemented the phyA-101 phyB-1 double mutant and thus did not represent new alleles of phyB (data not shown). The long-hypocotyl phenotype of each line was mapped in the F2 generation from a cross of the mutant in the phyA-101 (RLD ecotype) background to phyA-211 (Columbia ecotype) (CITATION) using PCR-based markers. The mutant locus was mapped to the top of chromosome V, distal to the marker CTR1.2, in a region not known to contain any other loci involved in photomorphogenesis. Recombinant F2 individuals on either side of the mutant locus defined a region spanned by four BACs (Figure 1A). [[FIGURE]] Candidate gene sequencing in this region revealed lesions in Arabidopsis PRR7 (At5g02810) in both mutant lines (Figure 1B). This gene is a member of a small family that includes TOC1. This family has been studied with respect to gene expression and has been referred to as the TOC1/APRR1 family. Here, in keeping with community guidelines for mutant gene nomenclature, our mutants were given the three-letter abbreviation prr7. Both alleles contain G-to-A transversions that would result in early termination of the predicted protein in a highly conserved domain homologous with the receiver domain (Figures 1B and 1C). A PROSITE (CITATION) scan revealed a potential bipartite nuclear localization signal near the C terminus of PRR7 (amino acids 680 to 696). A PRR7–β-glucuronidase (GUS) fusion protein was expressed transiently in leek epidermal cells after bombardment with a plasmid carrying a strong 35S promoter upstream of a fusion of the PRR7 coding region with the GUS marker gene. The GUS activity in dark-maintained leek epidermal peels transformed with the PRR7-GUS fusion protein was observed primarily in the nucleus (Figures 2A and 2B). In parallel experiments, GUS alone was detected throughout the cytoplasm (Figures 2C and 2D). These data provide evidence that PRR7 likely is a nuclear protein. [[FIGURE]] Fluence rate response curves in Rc and FRc were determined to quantitatively characterize the effect of the prr7 mutation on seedling sensitivity to these two diagnostic wavelengths. prr7 seedlings were 1 to 2 mm taller than wild-type seedlings at all fluence rates >0.1 μmol·m−2·s−1 Rc (Figures 3A and 3B), an effect that indicates reduced responsiveness to light of this wavelength. The reduced sensitivity of prr7 to Rc also was evident in the expansion of the cotyledons. Cotyledon expansion was reduced in prr7 with respect to the wild type (Figure 3C). Sensitivity to FRc also was reduced in prr7 with respect to the wild type (Figures 3A and 3D). Comparison of phyA prr7 double mutants with monogenic mutants showed that the prr7 mutant phenotype in Rc was more dramatic in the phyA-101 background, especially in the range from 0.1 to 10 μmol·m−2·s−1 (Figures 3B and 3D). However, in FRc (Figure 3D), phyA prr7 double mutant seedlings were indistinguishable from phyA seedlings, which suggests that phyA and prr7 do not have an additive effect under these light conditions. This is not surprising considering that phyA is the sole photoreceptor for far-red light and that phyA seedlings are essentially blind to FRc. prr7 seedlings did not have a long-hypocotyl phenotype when grown under continuous white light with a fluence rate of 150 μmol·m−2·s−1 (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To test the possibility that PRR7 is involved in the control of PHYB expression, the levels of phyB protein in wild-type and prr7 seedlings were analyzed. Figure 4 shows that phyB levels were normal in the mutants both in the dark and under Rc. This finding suggests that the prr7 phenotype is not a consequence of altered phyB levels and that PRR7 likely functions downstream of the phyB photoreceptor in Rc signal transduction. [[FIGURE]] To test the involvement of PRR7 in the regulation of early-responding, light-induced genes (CITATION), we compared the transcriptional induction of CCA1 and LHY in response to Rc in the mutant and the wild type. In the wild type, CCA1 and LHY both were induced rapidly and transiently in response to light, exhibiting biphasic patterns with an acute peak of expression at 1 h after transfer to light, followed by a trough from 6 to 12 h and a second peak at ∼18 h (Figures 5A and 5B), as observed previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; J. Tepperman and P. Quail, unpublished data). No oscillation in CCA1 transcript level was detectable in dark-grown wild-type seedlings during the 24-h period preceding the transfer to light (data not shown), establishing that these oscillations occurred only in response to the light signal under these conditions. The prr7 mutants also showed an initial peak and partial immediate downregulation of CCA1 expression upon first exposure to light, but CCA1 transcript levels began to increase again prematurely at 6 h and peaked at 18 h, coincident with the peak in the wild type at this level of resolution (Figure 5A). Thus, the depth of the trough of CCA1 expression was attenuated in prr7. [[FIGURE]] Figure 5B shows a similar but less severe defect in the expression of LHY in the prr7 mutants. These results suggest that PRR7 may be required for the negative regulation of CCA1 and LHY during the early trough in expression of these genes in Rc. A similar pattern of CCA1 expression was observed in FRc (data not shown). We observed a small difference in responsiveness between the prr7-1 and prr7-2 alleles both at 1 h after transfer to Rc and again at 18 to 24 h after transfer to Rc, but these differences are not likely to be significant in this experiment. As a result of the proposed role of PRR7 in circadian clock function (CITATION) and the initial misexpression of the clock genes CCA1 and LHY at early stages after transfer to red light observed here, we examined the circadian clock–regulated expression of these genes in prr7-1. Figure 6A shows that CCA1 mRNA oscillated with circadian rhythmicity in free-running continuous light conditions in fully green, wild-type seedlings that had been entrained to 12-h-light/12-h-dark cycles. In these seedlings, CCA1 expression began to increase in anticipation of subjective dawn to peak at zeitgeber time 0 (ZT0) to ZT3. prr7-1 also showed robust oscillations in CCA1 under these conditions (Figure 6A). However, the peaks of CCA1 expression in the mutant occurred before subjective dawn at ZT18 to ZT21 and in each cycle occurred 3 to 6 h before the wild-type peaks. CCA1 expression in the wild type increased most rapidly from ZT15 to ZT18, but in prr7-1, the trough was attenuated and CCA1 levels had already started to increase at ZT12. The mean period of expression for CCA1 was 20.7 ± 2.3 h in the wild type and 20.7 ± 2.8 h in prr7-1. [[FIGURE]] A similar phenomenon was observed for LHY, which also oscillated robustly in prr7-1 and the wild type, with peak expression occurring at ZT0 in the wild type and at ZT21 in the mutant. The mean free-running period of LHY expression was calculated to be 21 ± 2.6 h in the wild type and 22 ± 2.1 h in prr7-1. The average periods of expression of CCA1 and LHY did not differ significantly between the mutant and the wild type at the resolution level of this experiment. Amplitude values for both CCA1 and LHY were comparable between prr7 and the wild type, but with a tendency for expression to be higher in the troughs of the oscillations in prr7. The same is true for the TOC1 transcript (Figure 6C), for which peak expression in the wild type occurred at ZT9 to ZT12 but occurred earlier in prr7 at ZT6 to ZT9. Thus, the peak of expression for all three of the genes examined occurred earlier in prr7-1, without a detectable aberration in period length. These results indicate that the absence of PRR7 causes a significant, coordinated shift in the phasing of the oscillatory expression of the central components of the circadian clock.
!~MM~! A total of 40,000 Arabidopsis thaliana phyA-101 (ecotype RLD) seeds were treated with 0.3% ethyl methanesulfonate for 12 h, washed, and planted on soil. After stratification for 4 days at 4°C, flats were transferred to the greenhouse under continuous white light. M2 seeds were harvested from families of 1,000 M1 plants and desiccated for 14 days in Drierite (W.A. Hammond Drierite Company, Xenia, OH). M2 seeds were sown on growth media (CITATION) without sucrose, stratified for 5 days at 4°C, given a synchronizing 3-h white light treatment and 21-h dark treatment, and then grown for 72 h in continuous red light (Rc; 2 to 4 μmol·m−2·s−1) on vertical plates at 21°C (a total of 96 h from germination). Light sources and fluence measurements have been described elsewhere (CITATION). Seedlings with long hypocotyls were selected and allowed to self. Rescreening of the resulting M3 seeds identified a number of lines with a heritable long-hypocotyl phenotype. M3 seeds were plated on biliverdin-supplemented medium to eliminate chromophore biosynthetic mutants (CITATION). M3 plants were crossed to the phyA-101 phyB-1 introgressed line (described by CITATION) to identify new alleles of the phyB photoreceptor mutant. Candidate M3 lines were backcrossed to RLD and crossed to phyA-211 in the Columbia ecotype (CITATION) for mapping. The mutant locus was mapped from the F2 population of the mutant by phyA-211 cross using simple sequence length polymorphism, cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence, and single nucleotide polymorphism markers polymorphic between RLD and Columbia. Plant DNA was prepared according to CITATION. The PRR7 open reading frame was amplified by PCR from cDNA using primers containing restriction sites for ClaI and XbaI and inserted into the modified pRTL2-GUS/NiaDBam vector described by CITATION. Constructs were sequenced for accuracy. Leek (Allium porrum) epidermal peels were bombarded with this construct (35S:GUS-APRR7) and pRTL2-GUS and incubated in darkness for 24 h. Bombardment and GUS staining were performed as described by CITATION. The F2 progeny of the first backcross to RLD were analyzed with derived-cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence markers (CITATION) to select lines homozygous for prr7-1 and prr7-2. These plants also were tested for the phyA-101 mutation to obtain prr7-1 phyA-101 sibling lines for fluence response measurements. Seeds were sown, stratified, and synchronized as described above. After 72 h in Rc or continuous far-red light (96 h after germination) on horizontal plates containing growth media (CITATION) without sucrose, seedlings were photographed with a digital camera and hypocotyl length was measured using NIH Image software (Bethesda, MD). For cotyledon area measurements, seedlings were sown as described above except that after 96 h of Rc (120 h after germination) at a fluence rate of 0.79 μmol·m−2·s−1, cotyledons were flattened to the agar surface and photographed with a digital camera and the area of individual cotyledons was measured using NIH Image software. For red-light transcriptional induction experiments, seedlings were sown and stratified as described above but after synchronization were grown in darkness for 93 h before transfer to Rc (7.9 μmol·m−2·s−1) (time 0). Samples for RNA were taken at specified intervals. For circadian entrainment experiments, seeds were plated and stratified and immediately transferred to a 12-h-light/12-h-dark photoperiod for 6 days at a constant temperature of 21°C. On day 7, seedlings were transferred to continuous white light at a fluence rate of 150 μmol·m−2·s−1, and seedlings were collected at 3-h intervals. Seedling RNA was isolated and analyzed using the Qiagen Plant RNeasy kit (Valencia, CA) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Two to 10 μg of total RNA was separated on 1.2% formaldehyde gels and blotted to Ambion Brightstar membranes (Austin, TX). Hybridization and washes were performed at 65°C according to CITATION. Probes were labeled by random priming using the Redi-Prime II kit (Amersham Pharmacia). Probes for CCA1 and LHY were described by CITATION. The probe for TOC1 was amplified by PCR from genomic DNA using primers described by CITATION. Signal was quantified using a PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics, Sunnyvale, CA) and ImageQuant for Mac version 1.2 and corrected for loading using the 18s rRNA hybridization signal. These values were normalized so that the highest value for each transcript was equal to 1. For circadian experiments, the mean of three biological replicates was plotted, and error bars represent standard errors of the mean. For red light transcriptional induction experiments, the average normalized value (corrected for even loading with 18s rRNA signal, with the highest value set to 1) of two biological replicates was plotted, and the ends of the error bars represent the actual normalized values of each replicate. Period estimates for CCA1 and LHY oscillations were the average time between peaks of expression from three biological replicates over three cycles. Seedling protein isolation and immunoblotting and detection procedures were performed as described by CITATION. Total protein was isolated from 3-day-old seedlings grown in darkness or in Rc and separated by SDS-PAGE (8%). Ten micrograms of total protein was loaded for dark-grown seedlings, and 30 μg was loaded for Rc-grown seedlings. To detect PHYB, membranes were probed with the monoclonal antibodies B1 and B7 (1:500 dilution each) described by CITATION. Upon request, materials integral to the findings presented in this publication will be made available in a timely manner to all investigators on similar terms for noncommercial research purposes. To obtain materials, please contact Peter H. Quail, quail{at}nature.berkeley.edu.
