!~ABS~! Urea is the major nitrogen (N) form supplied as fertilizer in agricultural plant production and also an important N metabolite in plants. Because urea transport in plants is not well understood, the aim of the present study was to isolate urea transporter genes from the model plant Arabidopsis. Using heterologous complementation of a urea uptake-defective yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) mutant allowed to isolate AtTIP1;1, AtTIP1;2, AtTIP2;1, and AtTIP4;1 from a cDNA library of Arabidopsis. These cDNAs encode channel-like tonoplast intrinsic proteins (TIPs) that belong to the superfamily of major intrinsic proteins (or aquaporins). All four genes conferred growth of a urea uptake-defective yeast mutant on 2 mm urea in a phloretin-sensitive and pH-independent manner. Uptake studies using 14C-labeled urea into AtTIP2;1-expressing Xenopus laevis oocytes demonstrated that AtTIP2;1 facilitated urea transport also in a pH-independent manner and with linear concentration dependency. Expression studies showed that AtTIP1;2, AtTIP2;1, and AtTIP4;1 genes were up-regulated during early germination and under N deficiency in roots but constitutively expressed in shoots. Subcellular localization of green fluorescent protein-fused AtTIPs indicated that AtTIP1;2, AtTIP2;1, and AtTIP4;1 were targeted mainly to the tonoplast and other endomembranes. Thus, in addition to their role as water channels, TIP transporters may play a role in equilibrating urea concentrations between different cellular compartments.
!~RES~! For the isolation of genes involved in urea transport, a yeast complementation assay was established. The yeast mutant YNVW1 (Δdur3 and ura3), which is unable to grow on medium containing <5 mm urea as the sole N source (CITATION), was transformed with a cDNA library from Arabidopsis seedlings (CITATION), and transformants were screened on 2 mm urea as the sole N source. Of approximately 200,000 independent transformants, 17 colonies were isolated that conferred growth complementation repeatedly after retransformation of YNVW1 and that were predicted to encode integral membrane proteins. All 17 cDNAs represented four genes that belong to the TIPs (CITATION): AtTIP1;1 (γ-TIP1; At2g36830), AtTIP1;2 (γ-TIP2; At3g26520), AtTIP2;1 (δ-TIP1; At3g16240), and AtTIP4;1 (ϵ-TIP; At2g25810). Except AtTIP2;1, which encodes a δ-TIP originally described as a tonoplastlocated water channel (CITATION), the other three TIPs have not been functionally characterized so far. All four isolated genes complemented the growth of the yeast strain YNVW1 on 2 mm urea as a sole N source; however, their growth rate was still weaker compared with the wild type (23346c), in which the ScDUR3 gene is functional (Fig. 1A). Even on 1 mm urea, yeast transformants expressing AtTIP4;1 still conferred growth complementation, whereas the other three TIPs did not (data not shown). Because yeast complementation by AtTIP1;1 was weakest, this gene was not further investigated.   [[FIGURE]] In transport studies in heterologous systems, phloretin [3-(4 hydroxyphenyl)-1-(2,4,6-trihydroxyphenyl)-1-propanone] is commonly used as an inhibitor for Glc and urea transporters (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Relative to the wild type, AtTIP4;1-, AtTIP2;1-, and AtTIP1;2-expressing YNVW1 cells showed a reduced growth rate in presence of 0.45 mm phloretin (Fig. 1A), indicating that urea transport is sensitive to phloretin as found for urea transport mediated by mammalian AQPs in oocytes (CITATION). As an alternative to phloretin, Hg2+ has been employed frequently to block aquaporin-mediated transport of urea and water (Ishibashi et al., CITATION, CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). However, our attempt failed to find a suitable Hg2+ concentration that only inhibited growth of TIP-expressing YNVW1 strains but not of the respective wild type (data not shown). Because YNVW1 growth complementation on urea by the active urea transporter AtDUR3 was strongly dependent on external pH (CITATION), the influence of pH on TIP-mediated urea uptake in yeast was tested. However, the growth rate of AtTIP4;1-, AtTIP2;1-, and AtTIP1;2-expressing YNVW1 was hardly affected by raising the medium pH from 5.5 to 7.5 (Fig. 1B), indicating that external pH had no considerable effect on urea transport in yeast when mediated by one of the isolated TIPs. To investigate the mechanism of urea transport by the isolated TIP genes in more detail, one of the isolated genes, AtTIP2;1, was heterologously expressed in X. laevis oocytes. In vitro-synthesized AtTIP2;1 mRNA was micro-injected into oocytes, which were further incubated in choline-based standard buffer solution for 2 to 3 d before assaying urea uptake after supply of [14C]-labeled urea. Because uptake of [14C]urea by water-injected oocytes was low and showed no difference to noninjected oocytes, noninjected oocytes served as a control. In contrast, accumulation of [14C]-urea in AtTIP2;1-expressing oocytes was approximately 3- to 4-fold higher when oocytes were exposed to 100 μm urea for 20 min (Fig. 2A). Uptake of urea into oocytes was independent of external pH between pH 5 and 8. In control oocytes, urea accumulation was not significantly altered by increasing pH but showed higher variability at pH 8 (Fig. 2A). The pH independence in oocytes was in agreement with the observation that urea-dependent growth complementation of TIP-transformed yeast was unaffected by external pH (Fig. 1B).   [[FIGURE]] Urea accumulation in AtTIP2;1-expressing oocytes increased steeply with urea supply, when external urea concentrations were shifted from 100 μm to 30 mm at pH 7 (Fig. 2B). Similar to the comparatively low increase of urea accumulation in control oocytes, urea accumulation by AtTIP2;1 increased linearly with external concentration. A linear concentration dependence over large substrate concentration ranges is more typical of channel-mediated transport, suggesting that AtTIP2;1 might transport urea by a similar transport mechanism as water. To elucidate the potential physiological role of the isolated TIP transporters in urea transport in plants, subcellular localization of AtTIP1;2, AtTIP2;1, and AtTIP4;1 was assayed in PEG-transformed protoplasts derived from an Arabidopsis cell culture precultured in the dark. All TIP proteins were C terminally linked to green fluorescent protein (GFP), and expression of the fusion proteins was driven by a 35S promoter. Protoplasts transformed by the empty plasmid pCF203 carrying GFP alone served as control. GFP fluorescence of AtTIP4;1-, AtTIP1;2-, and AtTIP2;1-tagged constructs in protoplasts was confined to a ring in the protoplasts and to internal structures but was excluded from the nucleus and the vacuolar lumen (Fig. 3A). This staining pattern was similar to that observed for the vacuolar V-type ATPase subunit C (CITATION). After releasing vacuoles from the protoplasts by osmotic shock, the fluorescence signal of AtTIP2;1 and AtTIP1;2 mainly localized to the tonoplast. A strong signal was also observed in the remaining membranes and vesicles of the ruptured protoplast. In contrast, AtTIP4;1-GFP was hardly detectable in the tonoplast after osmotic shock but showed a strong staining of released material. Thus, all three TIPs localized to various internal membranes including the tonoplast, and the image resolution and staining of intact protoplasts did not exclude plasma membrane localization at same time.   [[FIGURE]] To investigate a potential physiological link of TIP-mediated urea transport to plant N nutrition, expression analysis was performed in 29-d-old Arabidopsis plants grown under axenic conditions. Before harvest, plants were subjected to N deficiency for 1, 2, or 3 d. In roots, expression of AtTIP4;1 was hardly detectable but appeared weakly up-regulated after N starvation for 3 d (Fig. 4A). Transcript levels of AtTIP1;2 and AtTIP2;1 were readily detectable after preculture under high N supply but sharply decreased after 24 h of N starvation. However, prolonging the period of N starvation to 3 d led to an increasing transcript accumulation of both genes (Fig. 4A). In shoots, AtTIP1;2 and AtTIP2;1 seemed to be constitutively expressed and showed no response to the N treatments. AtTIP4;1 could not be detected in shoots by RNA gel-blot analysis (Fig. 4B). Taken together, all three TIP genes clearly exhibited an N-dependent transcriptional regulation in roots, suggesting that the corresponding transporters might be involved in membrane transport processes that are linked to N nutrition or N metabolism.   [[FIGURE]] Urea transport might also occur during remobilization of N reserves in the plant. Thus, AtTIP gene expression was investigated in Arabidopsis seedlings, where N is remobilized from cotyledons and seed storage proteins to developing sinks. Because AtTIP transcripts were not well detected by RNA gel-blot analysis, reverse transcriptase (RT)-based PCR was performed using gene-specific primers. To verify that equal amounts of cRNA were used in each PCR reaction, cDNA fragments of the constitutively expressed ACT2 (actin-2) gene were simultaneously amplified by PCR (CITATION). In total RNA isolated from water-germinated seedlings over a 5-d period, a steep increase in transcripts of all three AtTIP genes was observed between the 1st and 2nd d of germination and between the 2nd and 3rd d (Fig. 5). From the 3rd d onwards, expression of AtTIP1;2 and AtTIP2;1 remained constantly high, whereas AtTIP4;1 mRNA levels decreased. A similar expression pattern was only observed for AtGLN1;2, encoding a cytosolic Gln synthetase, whereas AtUREG and arginase showed a more or less constitutive expression over the 5 d of germination (Fig. 5).   [[FIGURE]] A continuous increase in transcript levels of AtTIP1;2, AtTIP2;1, AtTIP4;1, and AtGLN1;2 during the first 3 d of N starvation was found repeatedly (Fig. 5). Based on the well-characterized transcriptional regulation of AtGLN1;2, which is strongly derepressed under N deficiency (CITATION), it is most likely that the Arabidopsis seedlings started early to suffer from N deficiency and then upregulated N-dependent genes such as AtGLN1;2. The transcriptional coregulation of the three AtTIPs with other N-dependent genes (Fig. 5) may support a physiological relationship between these TIPs and N nutrition or N metabolism in Arabidopsis. Because all three AtTIP genes were apparently not coregulated with the arginase gene or with UREG, encoding a urease accessory protein (CITATION; CITATION), no evidence has been obtained for an involvement of TIPs in N remobilization processes, when N is recycled from the Orn cycle and Arg is broken down to urea.
!~MM~! The DUR3 gene in the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) strain ∑ 23346c (Matα, ura3) was deleted by homologous integration of a disruption cassette as described by Liu et al. (CITATION), resulting in the urea uptake-defective yeast strain YNVW1. For the isolation of urea transporter genes, YNVW1 was transformed with a cDNA library from Arabidopsis seedlings (CITATION). Transformants were directly plated on urea-selective medium (yeast N base with 2 mm urea, 2% [w/v] Glc, and 2% [w/v] agarose). The isolated genes are consistent with the following annotations in the database: AtTIP1;1 (γ-TIP1; At2g36830), AtTIP1;2 (γ-TIP2; At3g26520), At-TIP2;1 (δ-TIP1; At3g16240), and AtTIP4;1 (ϵ-TIP; At2g25810). The ORF of AtTIP2;1 was amplified from a cDNA library (CITATION) by Pfu polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) using PCR and AtTIP2; 1-specific primers containing a restriction site for BglII: 5′-AACACAAAAACAAAAAGTTTTTTTAATTTTAATCAAAAAAGATCTATGGCTGGAGTTGCCTTTGGTTC-3′ and 5′-GAATGTAAGCGTGACATAACTAATT ACATGACTCGAGAGATCAGATCTTTAGAAATCAGCAGAAGCAAGAGG-3′. The resulting PCR product was first in vivo cloned into the yeast expression vector p426HXT (CITATION), sequenced, and the sequence was verified by database comparison. Then, the ORF was ligated into the oocyte expression vector pOO2 (CITATION) after linearization with BamHI using the BglII overhang. Capped cRNA was transcribed from pOO2-TIP2;1 in vitro using the mMessage mMachine kit (Ambion, Austin, TX) after linearization of the plasmid with XmnI. X. laevis oocytes were removed from adult female frogs by surgery and manually dissected. Oocytes (Dumont stage V or VI) were defolliculated using 10 mg mL–1 collagenase (Boehringer Mannheim, Basel) and trypsin inhibitor (Sigma, St. Louis) for 1 h and injected with 5 to 50 nL of cRNA (15–50 ng per oocyte). Each co-injection experiment was repeated multiple times. Oocytes were kept after injection for 2 to 5 d at 16°C in ND96 solution with the following composition: 96 mm NaCl, 2 mm KCl, 1.8 mm CaCl2, 1 mm MgCl2, 5 mm HEPES (pH 7.4), and 20 μg mL–1 gentamycin. Standard bath solutions for oocytes were also used for uptake experiments. Oocytes were pooled to groups of three and incubated for 20 min at room temperature in 500 μL of the respective buffer containing 10% (v/v) 14C-labeled urea (specific activity 57 mCi mmol–1, Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK). Then, oocytes were carefully washed five times in 1 mL of ice-cold buffer with 100-fold excess urea and solubilized in 5% (w/v) SDS. After addition of 5 mL of scintillation cocktail (Ultima Gold, Zinsser, Frankfurt, Germany), washed oocytes were measured in a scintillation counter (Wallac, Turku, Finland). The ORFs of AtTIP1;2, AtTIP2;1, and AtTIP4;1 were amplified by Pfu polymerase (Stratagene) using the following primers with KpnI cloning sites: TIP4;1, 5′-AGGGTACCATGAAGAAGATCGAGTTAGGGCA-3′ and 5′-AGGGTACCAATTCAACAATGGTTGCTCGTCGTC-3′; TIP1;2, 5′-AGGGTACCATGCCGACCAGAAACATCGC-3′ and 5′-AGGGTACCAGTAATCGGTGGTAGGCAAT-3′; and TIP2;1, 5′-AGGGTACCATGGCTGGAGTTGCCTTTGGTT-3′ and 5′-AGGGTACCAGAAATCAGCAGAAGCAAGAGGA-3′. PCR products were verified by sequencing and compared with the sequences in the Arabidopsis database. Finally, the ORFs were cloned into the pCF203 vector (kindly provided by C. Fankhauser, ETH Zürich) in frame to a gene encoding GFP driven by a 35S promoter. Five milliliters of 1-week-old Arabidopsis ecotype Landsberg suspension cell culture (gift of Axel Vögel, ZMBP, Tübingen, Germany) were transferred to 45 mL of growth medium as described by Liu et al. (CITATION) and subcultured for 3 d under dark conditions (26°C and rotation at 120 rpm). The cell culture was centrifuged at 400g for 5 min and washed with 25 mL of cell wall digestion buffer solution without digestion enzyme. Protoplasts were prepared and transformed according to the protocols of Merkle et al. (CITATION) and Negrutiu et al. (CITATION). After transformation, the protoplasts were visualized using a confocal microscope. Plasma membranes of protoplasts were disrupted by osmotic shock, adding 5 to 10 μL of a 10 mm EDTA and 100 mm KH2PO4 (pH 6) solution to protoplasts, and after incubation for 2 to 3 min, the fluorescence was investigated using the confocal microscope. Arabidopsis seeds (ecotype Columbia 0) were germinated and precultured axenically in magenta boxes containing 50 mL of nutrient solution as described by Liu et al. (CITATION). Except for the control treatment with 1 mm NH4NO3, plants were subjected to N deficiency for 1, 2, and 3 d before harvest. Plant roots and shoots were harvested separately for total RNA extraction. To obtain plant material from germinating seedlings, surface-sterilized seeds were placed in petri dishes and germinated in autoclaved distilled water and harvested every day during a 5-d period. Isolation of total RNA and RNA gel-blot analysis were conducted as performed in Gazzarrini et al. (CITATION). The full-length cDNAs of the three TIPs were used as a probe for hybridization to total RNA. A 25S rRNA probe was used as a RNA loading control for quantification achieved by a PhosphorImager (Storm, Molecular Dynamics, Sunnyvale, CA). For RT-mediated PCR analysis, mRNAs were converted to cDNAs by reverse transcriptase according to the manufacturer's protocol (MBI, St. Leon-Roth, Germany), and cDNA fragments of AtTIP1;2, AtTIP2;1, AtTIP4;1, arginase gene, UREG, and AtGLN1;2 were amplified using specific primers for the corresponding genes. To ensure that equal amounts of cRNA were used in each PCR reaction, a cDNA fragment of the constitutively expressed ACT2 gene was simultaneously amplified by PCR (CITATION). The verification of the amplicons was made by sequencing. Primers used for RT-PCR were: TIP1;2, 5′-ATGCCGACCAGAAACATCGC-3′ and 5′-TCAGTAATCGGTGGTAGGCAA-3′; TIP2;1, 5′-ATGGCTGGAGTTGCCTTTGGTT-3′ and 5′-TTAGAAATCAGCAGAAGCAAG AGG-3′; TIP4;1, 5′-ATGAAGAAGATCGAGTTAGGGC-3′ and 5′-TTAATTCAACAATGGTTGCT CGT-3′; Arginase, 5′-GATATGTCGAGGATTATTGGTA-3′ and 5′-GTTTATCGATCTGATCCC AAC-3′; UREG, 5′-GAAGGCGTCGTGGGTGGG-3′ and 5′-AAGTATTGAAAGAGTTCCATTCA-3′; GLN1;2, 5′-ATGAGTCTTCTTGCAGATCTT-3′ and 5′-TCAAGGGTTCCAGAGGAGT-3′; and ACT2, 5′-TCCAAGCTGTTCTCTCCTTG-3′ and 5′-GAGGGCTGGAACAAGACTTC-3′. Upon request, all novel materials described in this publication will be made available in a timely manner for noncommercial research purposes.
