!~ABS~! Failure of pathogenic fungi to breach the plant cell wall constitutes a major component of immunity of non-host plant species—species outside the pathogen host range—and accounts for a proportion of aborted infection attempts on ‘susceptible’ host plants (basal resistance) (CITATION) . Neither form of penetration resistance is understood at the molecular level. We developed a screen for penetration (pen) mutants of Arabidopsis, which are disabled in non-host penetration resistance against barley powdery mildew, Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei, and we isolated the PEN1 gene. We also isolated barley ROR2 (ref. 2), which is required for basal penetration resistance against B. g. hordei. The genes encode functionally homologous syntaxins, demonstrating a mechanistic link between non-host resistance and basal penetration resistance in monocotyledons and dicotyledons. We show that resistance in barley requires a SNAP-25 (synaptosome-associated protein, molecular mass 25 kDa) homologue capable of forming a binary SNAP receptor (SNARE) complex with ROR2. Genetic control of vesicle behaviour at penetration sites, and plasma membrane location of PEN1/ROR2, is consistent with a proposed involvement of SNARE-complex-mediated exocytosis and/or homotypic vesicle fusion events in resistance. Functions associated with SNARE-dependent penetration resistance are dispensable for immunity mediated by race-specific resistance (R) genes, highlighting fundamental differences between these two resistance forms.
!~RES~! Most types of plant pathogens fail to produce disease on the majority of plant species. Although ‘non-host’ resistance is the most common form of resistance, its basis is poorly understood owing to the dearth of tractable genetic systems. This contrasts with ‘race-specific’ resistance triggered by corresponding AVIRULENCE (AVR)/R genes in otherwise compatible host–pathogen interactions, for which many components have been identified (CITATION) . Suicide of cells surrounding the infection site (often referred to as the hypersensitive response) typically accompanies R-gene-mediated resistance, and hypersensitive-response-like cell death can also be associated with non-host resistance. These drastic measures form secondary lines of defence that are normally triggered once a fungus has overcome active defences at the plant cell periphery (CITATION) . We investigated whether the immunity of the model plant Arabidopsis to the barley powdery mildew B. g. hordei could be used to develop a system for dissecting non-host resistance. Blumeria g. hordei conidiospores germinated on Arabidopsis but most sporelings failed to enter the plant cells, accompanied by the formation of a cell wall deposition (papilla) by the plant cell directly beneath penetration attempts. About 10% of sites showed successful penetration as indicated by the presence of a fungal feeding structure (haustorium; Fig. 1a); however, most of the penetrated cells underwent hypersensitive-response-like cell death (Fig. 1b), manifested as whole-cell autofluorescence. Haustoria became encased in deposits containing callose, as revealed by aniline blue staining. Rarely, short hyphae were produced on the leaf surface (Fig. 1a), indicative of successful nutrient uptake through haustoria, before further fungal growth was invariably halted. Independent screens for Arabidopsis mutants allowing increased penetration by B. g. hordei (pen mutants) were performed, using either whole-cell autofluorescence or induced callose deposition as indicators of penetration. Mutants were identified for at least three genes (PEN1, -2 and -3; data not shown). Mutant alleles of PEN1 were recovered from each screen. [[FIGURE]] Map-based cloning of PEN1, supported by the sequencing of four mutant alleles (Fig. 1c), revealed that it encodes A. thaliana syntaxin (At)SYP121 (ref. 7). The pen1-1 mutation results in a stop codon early in the open reading frame and presumably leads to complete loss of PEN1 function. pen1-1 mutant plants allowed a sevenfold higher incidence of B. g. hordei penetration compared with wild-type plants, as well as a concomitant increase in the incidence of hypersensitive-response-like cell death induced by B. g. hordei (Fig. 1b). Further B. g. hordei growth was invariably arrested in pen1-1 plants. Thus, although impairment of penetration resistance would be necessary for Arabidopsis to be an effective host for B. g. hordei, it is not sufficient. Nicotiana tabacum SYR1, a tobacco homologue of PEN1/AtSYP121 (AtSYR1), has been suggested to have roles in mediating abscisic acid signalling, stomatal closing and normal growth in tobacco (CITATION) ; however, pen1 mutants showed no discernible defects in general growth, stomatal closing ability, or root development (data not shown). The barley–B. g. hordei combination also provides a useful system for the analysis of penetration resistance. Mutants of the barley MLO suppressor of resistance show highly effective penetration resistance against all tested B. g. hordei isolates. ROR1 and ROR2 were identified in a mutant search as genes required for full mlo resistance (CITATION) , but they also contribute to low-level basal penetration resistance expressed in ‘susceptible’ wild-type MLO backgrounds (Supplementary Fig. 1a). Combining mutations in ROR1 and ROR2 had an additive effect on susceptibility (Supplementary Fig. 1b). We isolated ROR2 using a barley–rice syntenic-map-based cloning approach (Supplementary Fig. 2a). A ROR2 co-segregating syntaxin gene showed a 31-amino-acid in-frame deletion in the mutant ror2-1 line (ROR2Δ31) (Fig. 1c; see also Supplementary Fig. 2b). Complementation of the ror2-1 mutation by microprojectile-mediated introduction of a genomic clone driven by the native promoter into leaf epidermal cells confirmed that the gene is ROR2 (Fig. 1d). Transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing a green fluorescent protein (GFP)–PEN1 fusion protein from the native PEN1 promoter revealed a plasma membrane location for PEN1 (Supplementary Fig. 3a). ROR2 also showed a plasma membrane distribution in subcellular fractions analysed using a ROR2 antibody (Supplementary Fig. 3b). Of the 24 syntaxins in Arabidopsis (CITATION) , PEN1 has the closest resemblance to ROR2 (62% identity and 77% similarity in the cytosolic region; other syntaxins have 55% or less identity and 75% or less similarity; Fig. 1c). A construct containing the PEN1 coding sequence driven by the barley ROR2 promoter complemented the penetration phenotype in ror2-1 mutant plants (Fig. 1d). These data indicate that PEN1 and ROR2 are functionally homologous syntaxin family members possessing a specialized resistance function conserved between monocotyledons and dicotyledons. PEN1 and ROR2 also provide a mechanistic link between non-host and basal penetration resistance. Syntaxins are members of the SNARE superfamily of proteins that mediate membrane fusion events. SNARE proteins anchored on different membranes interact through their SNARE domains to form a four-helix SNARE bundle, thereby providing much of the energy required to drive membrane fusion (CITATION) . Plasma membrane syntaxins (Qa-SNARE domain) typically combine with a SNAP-25 protein (Qb- and Qc-SNARE domains) and an R-SNARE protein anchored on exocytotic vesicles. Notably, the pen1-3 substitution alters a glycine that is invariant among all nine Arabidopsis subgroup 1 syntaxins, at one of the 16 Qa-SNARE residues that contribute to stabilizing interactions with other SNARE proteins in membrane-fusing complexes (CITATION) (Fig. 1c). We used a candidate gene approach to identify other factors required for B. g. hordei penetration resistance in barley, by silencing homologues of other SNARE proteins or SNARE-associated proteins in leaf epidermal cells. A SNAP-25 homologue was shown to be required for full resistance (construct 1, Fig. 2a), identifying it as a potential binding partner for ROR2 in a resistance-mediating SNARE complex. The product of predicted molecular mass 33.7 kDa was named HvSNAP34 (Supplementary Fig. 4). Owing to the limited silencing often obtained using this system (data not shown), the contribution of HvSNAP34 to resistance may be greater than the 4–7% penetration failure accounted for here. Cells silenced for HvSNAP34 were tested for their ability to mount resistance triggered by the R gene MLA1 (ref. 11), which encodes an intracellular protein containing a nucleotide-binding domain and leucine-rich repeats (Fig. 2b). Resistance against an isolate of B. g. hordei containing the corresponding AVRMLA1 determinant was conferred specifically by MLA1 and not by the closely related MLA6, indicating that HvSNAP34 is dispensable for R-gene-mediated resistance. [[FIGURE]] We used the cytosolic regions of wild-type ROR2 and mutant ROR2Δ31 proteins, as well as full-length HvSNAP34, in yeast two-hybrid protein interaction assays (Fig. 3a). Both forms of ROR2 interacted with HvSNAP34; however, the Δ31 deletion strongly enhanced binding to HvSNAP34 in addition to allowing formation of ROR2Δ31 homomultimers (Fig. 3a). In other plasma membrane syntaxins, the amino terminus forms an autonomously folded bundle comprising helices Ha, Hb and Hc (Fig. 1c), which binds reversibly with the Qa-SNARE domain, suppressing interactions with other SNARE proteins and the formation of high-order homomultimers in vitro (CITATION) . The Δ31 deletion covers most of the predicted Hc helix (Fig. 1c). Therefore, the altered SNARE binding of ROR2Δ31 is probably due to disruption of similar intramolecular interactions within ROR2, leading to a constitutively open state. [[FIGURE]] The ROR2Δ31 protein produced by the endogenous ror2-1 allele is unaltered in membrane location, and is only slightly reduced in abundance (Supplementary Fig. 3b), suggesting that its inability to confer resistance is due to disruption of a critical biochemical function requiring the region deleted in this protein. Notably, overexpressed ROR2Δ31 acted as a potent inhibitor of resistance in a wild-type ROR2 background (Fig. 3b), probably by sequestering interacting partner(s) of ROR2 (for example, HvSNAP34) into non-functional complexes. Overexpression of ROR2Δ31 also increased susceptibility in a mutant ror2-1 background (Fig. 3c), suggesting that either the ror2-1 mutant retains partial ROR2 activity, or that another syntaxin sharing interacting partner(s) with ROR2 contributes to the resistance. Cells overexpressing ROR2Δ31 were able to mount resistance triggered by the R gene MLA1 (Fig. 3d), reinforcing the notion that SNARE functions related to penetration resistance are not critical for R-gene-mediated resistance. Because the requirement for SNARE proteins implies a role for membrane fusion in resistance, we examined whether the incidence of B. g. hordei-associated vesicles detectable by light microscopy (>1 µm) was altered by mutations in the MLO, ROR1 and ROR2 genes. Consistent with previous observations (CITATION) , large (2–3 µm) vesicles containing H2O2 could be observed in the host cells beneath appressoria (Fig. 4a). Vesicles appeared to aggregate and coalesce with time, and disappeared by 72 h at sites of primary penetration attempts (not shown). The appearance of vesicles was significantly influenced by mutations in each of the MLO, ROR1 and ROR2 genes, with vesicle incidence being positively associated with levels of resistance to B. g. hordei penetration (Fig. 4b). [[FIGURE]] Our findings obtained here (Figs 1b, 2b and 3d) and previously (CITATION) show that components of penetration resistance, including SNARE-related functions, are not critical for R-gene-mediated, race-specific resistance or for secondary lines of non-host resistance. Moreover, PEN1, -2 and -3 differ from genes uncovered by searches for enhanced disease susceptibility mutants performed in contexts of high penetration incidence in compatible host–pathogen interactions (ref. 5 and our own unpublished data). Thus, basal/non-host resistance processes responsible for halting early stages of fungal ingress seem to act independently of other resistance types. Three lines of evidence suggest that PEN1 and ROR2 mediate resistance by participating in SNARE complexes. First, resistance also requires the Qa- and Qb-SNARE-containing protein HvSNAP34. Second, the pen1-3 substitution alters one of the Qa-SNARE positions that contribute to stabilizing interactions with other SNARE proteins. Third, the potent resistance inhibition observed upon ROR2Δ31 overexpression, together with the enhanced binding of ROR2Δ31 to HvSNAP34, is consistent with deregulated formation of binary SNARE complexes, which normally serve as transient intermediates in assembly of ternary complexes containing the additional R-SNARE. The plasma membrane location of PEN1 and ROR2 may facilitate exocytosis; however, the reduced incidence of B. g. hordei-induced vesicles in the ror2-1 mutant defies this simple interpretation. One possibility is that, in addition to facilitating exocytosis, ROR2 may also mediate homotypic fusion of vesicles to one another, in a manner similar to KNOLLE syntaxin-dependent homotypic vesicle fusion at the growing cell plate (CITATION) . Homotypic fusion could allow the vesicles to achieve a size visible by light microscopy, and might account for the fact that the vesicles are relatively large compared with most exocytotic vesicles described in animals and plants (CITATION) . One constituent of the vesicles is H2O2, a plant defence compound that can perform antimicrobial, cell-wall crosslinking and signalling functions (CITATION) . Interestingly, the B. g. hordei-induced vesicles resemble, both in size and behaviour, coloured antimicrobial-compound-containing vesicles that coalesce in sorghum leaf epidermal cells beneath sites of attempted penetration by the fungus Colletotrichum graminicola (CITATION) . Vesicles destined for exocytosis contain R-SNAREs, which join with binary syntaxin–SNAP-25 complexes on the plasma membrane to drive membrane fusion (CITATION) . If vesicle-anchored R-SNARE partners of ROR2 and PEN1 can be identified they may allow isolation of vesicles critical for resistance, and their cargo.
!~MM~! M2 populations were derived by ethylmethane sulphonate treatment of Arabidopsis Columbia (Col-0 or Col-3 gl1). In the two screens yielding pen-1, -2 and -4, M2 plants were inoculated with B. g. hordei isolate CR3, and after 48 h detached leaves were subjected to aniline blue epifluorescence staining to monitor callose (CITATION) deposited in response to penetration. In the screen yielding pen1-3, M2 plants were inoculated with B. g. hordei isolate K1, and 72 h later examined with ultraviolet light (excitation filter 365/12 nm; dichroic mirror 400LP) to monitor the autofluorescence resulting from the hypersensitive-response-like cell death triggered by penetration. The pen mutants were deposited in the Arabidopsis Stock Centre. Individual Arabidopsis–B. g. hordei interaction sites were characterized for penetration success using aniline blue and for the hypersensitive-response-like cell death using ultraviolet autofluorescence. Three repetitions, scoring 100 sites per time point and genotype, were performed. PEN1 was mapped using a Columbia pen1-1 × Landsberg erecta F2 population of 474 individuals using standard polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based marker techniques. See Supplementary Information. Full-length ROR2 messenger RNA (AY246907) and genomic (AY246906) sequences were derived by rapid amplification of cloned ends and adaptor-mediated PCR methods. The BAC clone HvMBa693F23 was identified from the genomic DNA library of wild-type ROR2 barley cv. Morex (CITATION) by screening with a ROR2 probe. Complementation with ROR2 was performed using a HvMBa693F23 subclone containing the ROR2 open reading frame flanked by 881 base pairs (bp) of 5′ sequence and 81 bp of 3′ sequence. The PEN1 complementation construct contained the PEN1 genomic coding sequence and terminator inserted behind 3.4 kilobases of ROR2 5′ untranslated region sequence. The fusion junction followed the ATG, resulting in a D to N substitution at the third position of the encoded PEN1 protein, which is otherwise identical to PEN1. Overexpression constructs were made using the pUBI-Adaptor-NOS vector (CITATION) containing the strong constitutive maize polyubiquitin (UBI) promoter. The ROR2ΔTM construct encoding the ROR2 cytosolic region was made by introducing a T285stop mutation. We confirmed PCR-derived clones by sequencing. Homologues of SNARE or SNARE-associated proteins were identified in tBLASTn searches of the Syngenta TMRI rice genomic sequence database (http://portal.tmri.org/rice/RiceDescription.html) and the Triticeae expressed sequence tag and rice genomic sequence databases (NR and HTGS) at NCBI. Silencing fragments for HvSNAP34 spanned nucleotide positions 639–982 (coding) or 1007–1275 (3′ untranslated region) of the complementary DNA (AY247208). Other genes (GenBank accession numbers AY247209 to AY247214, AJ466709 and AV833528) were targeted for silencing using fragments of 115–351 bp. The pUAMBN silencing vector contains the UBI promoter and MLA1 intron 3 located between two attL1–ccdB–attL2 cassettes for cloning inserts in inverted orientation using Gateway technology (Life Technologies). R gene and GUS reporter constructs have been described (CITATION)  Gene expression and silencing in barley leaf epidermal cells was performed essentially as described (CITATION) . Gold microprojectiles (1.0 µm) were coated with a total of 12 µg plasmid DNA mixture per shot, using 8 µg of double-stranded RNAi construct, 0.6 µg of complementation construct but otherwise equal amounts of other constructs. Bombarded leaves were inoculated with B. g. hordei isolate K1 after 96 h (silencing) or 4 h (expression), and penetration frequencies were determined 48 h after inoculation. Generally, 150 interaction sites were assessed from each of three to four independent ‘shootings’ per construct combination. MLA1 and MLA6 R genes confer pre-haustorial resistance in this system due to an overexpression effect (CITATION) . Hence, in tests involving both penetration resistance and R-gene-mediated resistance, susceptibility was scored on the basis of haustorium formation. Yeast two-hybrid tests were performed using the GAL4 system with the HIS reporter in yeast strain AH109 essentially as recommended by the suppliers (Clontech). Vectors (supplied by J. Uhrig) were made by adapting pACT2 and pAS2-1 (Clontech) to accept inserts using Gateway cloning technology (Life Technologies). PCR-derived cDNA clones were verified by sequencing, and the prey and bait constructs were co-transformed into yeast. Liquid culture densities were equalized using absorption at 600 nm, and 10 µl of each dilution was spotted on to histidine minus medium before incubation. Vesicle analysis was performed on leaf segments stained with DAB to detect H2O2 as described (CITATION) . Leaves of 7-day-old seedlings were inoculated with B. g. hordei, and 24 h later they were assessed by differential interference contrast microscopy for vesicles in the short cells of the adaxial epidermis (CITATION) . Per genotype, 100 sites were scored from each of three leaves. Only sites at which penetration had failed were scored. See Supplementary Information for barley genotype analysis with B. g. hordei, and PEN1 and ROR2 localization.
