!~ABS~! Arabidopsis COP1 is a constitutive repressor of photomorphogenesis that interacts with photomorphogenesis-promoting factors such as HY5 to promote their proteasome-mediated degradation. SPA1 is a repressor of phytochrome A-mediated responses to far-red light. Here we report that COP1 acts as part of a large protein complex and interacts with SPA1 in a light-dependent manner. We further demonstrate the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of COP1 on HY5 in vitro and the alteration of that activity by SPA1. Thus, the COP1-SPA1 interaction defines a critical step in coordinating COP1-mediated ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of HY5 with PHYA signaling. 
!~RES~! Many RING-type E3 ubiquitin ligases form protein complexes in vivo (Pickart 2001). To examine if this is the case for COP1, we carried out gel filtration analyses (Fig. 1). Because of the low activity of our COP1 antibodies, the band corresponding to COP1 was located between two nonspecific cross-reacting bands (Fig. 1). As expected, the COP1 band was absent in extracts from cop1-4 seedlings, whereas the two flanking nonspecific bands remained largely unchanged (Fig. 1). The majority of COP1 is present in an ∼700-kD protein complex(es) in dark-grown wild-type plants and is clearly different from the profiles of the CSN (Fig. 1) and the COP10 complex (Suzuki et al. 2002). Previous experiments have demonstrated that COP1 is capable of homodimerization (Torii et al. 1998). However, in the current experimental conditions, no detectable amounts of the COP1 protein were seen in the fractions corresponding to the size of its homodimer (150-160 kD). Thus, it is likely that COP1 constitutes the complex(es) in heterogeneous associations with other factors. Further analyses revealed that COP1 is also present in the same size complex(es) in white light (data not shown), as well as in the absence of CSN (Fig. 1, cop9-1). Therefore, light regulation of COP1 must include control mechanisms other than simple association-dissociation of COP1 from the rest components of the complex. Interestingly, the peak of the COP1 complex(es) is shifted to larger fractions by loss of COP10 (Fig. 1, cop10-1). This may represent an unknown inactive state of the COP1 complex(es), which requires COP10 for conversion to a smaller active form.  [[FIGURE]] To obtain genetic evidence for the functional interaction between COP1 and SPA1, we constructed a double mutant between a weak cop1 mutant allele, cop1-6 (McNellis et al. 1994), and a severe spa1 mutant allele, spa1-3 (Hoecker et al. 1999). Under FRc, the spa1-3/cop1-6 double mutant possesses slightly shorter hypocotyls and shows higher accumulation of anthocyanin compared with those of the single parental mutants (Fig. 2A,E,G), suggesting that these mutations have a synergistic effect in PHYA signaling. This effect was observed over a range of FRc fluence rates, although it was less pronounced under high fluence rate irradiations (Fig. 2F). Notably, the double mutant shows a synergistic phenotype even in darkness, in which no obvious phenotype is detected in the spa1-3 mutant (Fig. 2B,E,H). This suggests that COP1 and SPA1 may functionally interact even in the absence of FR. A cDNA microarray analysis focusing on FR-regulated genes (Wang et al. 2002) revealed a similar synergism in the gene expression profiles affected by these two mutations (Fig. 2I).  [[FIGURE]] Because COP1 promotes the destabilization of HY5 (Osterlund et al. 2000),we tested whether SPA1 contributes to the down-regulation of HY5 abundance. We compared HY5 levels between wild-type and the spa1-3 mutant seedlings under FRc. During the time period examined, HY5 accumulates to high levels in spa1-3 without detectable increase in the mRNA level (Fig. 3A). Upon transfer of the seedlings from darkness to FRc, HY5 begins to accumulate more rapidly in spa1-3 than in the wild type (Fig. 3B). We also found a slight synergistic effect of the spa1-3 and cop1-6 mutations on HY5 abundance (Fig. 3C). However, no detectable change in the COP1 expression level was found in spa1-3 (Fig. 3D). These results indicate that the hyperphotomorphogenic phenotype of spa1-3 is caused, at least in part, through high-level accumulation of HY5, rather than through decreased expression of COP1.  [[FIGURE]] To examine whether direct protein interaction between SPA1 and HY5 is involved in the SPA1-mediated control of HY5 level, we used a yeast two-hybrid assay. Full-length SPA1 fused with the LexA DNA-binding domain interacts with the GAL4 activation-domain fusion of HY5 (Fig. 2E). This interaction is greatly reduced by point mutations in the COP1-binding domain of HY5 (HY5VP-AA; Holm et al. 2001). Truncated forms of SPA1 lacking either the WD40 domain or the coiled-coil region do not interact with HY5. This suggests that as found with the COP1-HY5 interaction, the SPA1-HY5 interaction is mediated through the WD40 domain, and presence of both WD40 domain and coiled-coil region are required. Furthermore, two-hybrid analyses using mutant versions of SPA1 and COP1 confirmed that, as previously reported (Hoecker and Quail 2001), the coiled-coil regions of both proteins are necessary and sufficient for the COP1-SPA1 interaction (Fig. 3F,G). Interestingly, the interaction between the coiled-coil regions and their full-length partners is considerably greater than that between the two full-length proteins (Fig. 3F,G). A small deletion or a single amino acid substitution within the WD40 domain of COP1 (cop1-8 and cop1-9, respectively) also inhibits the COP1-SPA1 interaction (Fig. 3G). Thus, it appears that presence of a misfolded WD40 domain in COP1 impairs its coiled-coil-mediated interaction with SPA1, whereas the complete loss of the WD40 domain does not.  To further investigate the COP1-SPA1 interaction and its role in vivo, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants by introducing an N-terminal fusion protein of SPA1 with a modified tandem affinity purification (TAP) tag (Fig. 4A; Rigaut et al. 1999). As shown in Figure 4B and C, this construct complemented the spa1-3 mutation and restored HY5 protein abundance to its wild-type level (Fig. 4D). To address our hypothesis that SPA1 acts as a component of the COP1 complex(es), we first compared gel filtration profiles of both proteins from dark- and FRc-grown seedlings (Fig. 4E). Both the TAP-SPA1 fusion protein and COP1 largely cofractionate in the large-molecular-size fractions (∼700 kD) under both darkness and FRc.  [[FIGURE]] To confirm the association of COP1 and SPA1 in vivo, we performed coprecipitation assays with immunoglobin G (IgG)-agarose beads, which specifically precipitate TAP-SPA1 from crude plant extracts. As shown in Figure 4F, COP1 is coprecipitated with TAP-SPA1 from the transgenic plants but not from the wild-type controls. Although almost equal amounts of TAP-SPA1 were precipitated, the yield of coprecipitated COP1 is higher from dark-grown seedlings than from any other light-grown seedlings (Fig. 4F, right). Because the amounts of COP1 and SPA1 as a proportion of total protein extracts are essentially the same under all growth conditions (Fig. 4F, left), this difference may reflect a decrease in the amount of SPA1 associated with COP1 in the light. Thus, it is possible that light-mediated inactivation of COP1 is achieved, at least in part, through this light-induced dissociation of SPA1 from COP1. Even though SPA1 function is most prominent under FRc, we detected no enhancement in the COP1-SPA1 interaction under FRc compared with the other light conditions. Apparently, direct interaction with COP1 alone does not account for the functional specificity of SPA1 toward the PHYA-mediated FRc responses. Rather, it suggests that a posttranslational modification on SPA1 and/or COP1 may occur predominantly under FR, possibly mediated by PHYA. Nevertheless, both cofractionation and coprecipitation suggest a tight physical association between COP1 and SPA1. In contrast, the signals for two subunits of the CSN (CSN3 and CSN6) in the IgG-precipitated samples are not substantially elevated over the mock-precipitated control.  It seems likely that SPA1 acts as a component of the COP1 complex(es). However, further gel filtration analyses did not reveal any significant difference in the profile of the COP1 complex(es) in the FRc-grown spa1-3 seedlings (Fig. 4G), in which a nonsense mutation precedes the coiled-coil region of SPA1 protein (Hoecker et al. 1999). This indicates that at least one form of the COP1 complex(es) maintains its integrity without SPA1. It is possible that different COP1 complexes exist and at least one of them contains SPA1 as an associated factor. In this regard, the Arabidopsis genome has at least two genes that encode proteins highly homologous in structure to SPA1 (GenBank accession nos. T08190 and AAF87859) that may partially compensate for SPA1 activity in its absence. Alternatively, the COP1-SPA1 interaction may be an intercomplex interaction. However, it should be noted that no such super-large complex was detected in our gel filtration analyses.  Because all the results suggest that the COP1-SPA1 complex(es) plays a role in regulating ubiquitination pathways, we investigated whether COP1 has intrinsic E3 ubiquitin ligase activity by using in vitro ubiquitination assays with maltose-binding protein (MBP) fusions of full-length COP1 and SPA1. In the presence of recombinant yeast E1 and Arabidopsis E2, the purified MBPCOP1 exhibits autoubiquitination activity (Fig. 5A). Two bands corresponding to ubiquinated proteins were seen in immunoblots only in the presence of E1, E2, and functional COP1. Using amylose resin to pull-down the MBP tag (Fig. 5A, right panels), it was determined that the lower band represents ubiquinated COP1, whereas the upper band is an unknown protein that is also ubiquinated by COP1. The signal for ubiquinated COP1 overlaps with that of unmodified protein, and we were unable to distinguish multiple forms of COP1 using either COP1 (Fig. 5A, lower panel) or MBP antibodies (data not shown). This suggests the addition of one or possibly two ubiquitin molecules to only a small proportion of the total amount of COP1 in the assay mixture.  [[FIGURE]] To investigate the effects of SPA1 on the E3 ligase activity of COP1, we first examined the effects of MBPSPA1 on COP1 autoubiquitination activity (Fig. 5B, left and right panels). As expected, bands corresponding to ubiquinated COP1 and the unidentified protein described above were observed only in the presence of E1, E2, and COP1 (Fig. 5B, left panel). Interestingly, the addition of GSTHY5 (Fig. 5B, left panel), but not GST alone (Fig. 5B, right panel), caused a decrease in the amount of these two ubiquinated proteins. The addition of approximately equimolar (relative to COP1) amounts of MBPSPA1 returned amounts of ubiquinated COP1 to that observed in the absence of HY5 (Fig. 5B). However, in the absence of GSTHY5, the addition of SPA1 had no detectable effect on the level of COP1 autoubiquitination (Fig. 5B, right panel).  We next investigated the E3 ligase activity of COP1 on GSTHY5 by using GST antibodies. The addition of E1, E2, and active COP1 resulted in the formation of a larger form of GSTHY5 (Fig. 5C, left panel). This larger form of GSTHY5 was ubiquinated (Fig. 5C, right panel), with the size shift indicating the addition of one ubiquitin unit. Interestingly, the addition of SPA1 (but not MBP; data not shown) inhibits the formation of ubiquinated GSTHY5 (Fig. 5C).  Because proteins that are destined for proteasome-mediated degradation are generally conjugated to a polyubiquitin chain (Pickart 2001), we wanted to investigate the ubiquination status of HY5 in vivo. To this end, we took light-grown Arabidopsis seedlings and transferred them to the dark, a process that results in the rapid degradation of HY5 (Osterlund et al. 2000). Treatment of the seedlings with proteasome inhibitors enabled detection of polyubiquitinated forms of HY5 (Fig. 5D), demonstrating that in vivo HY5 is polyubiquitinated before its degradation via the proteasome pathway.  Recently, Seo et al. (2003) have also demonstrated the E3 ligase activity of COP1 on itself and the MYB transcription factor LAF1. However, in contrast to these results, they reported that SPA1 enhances the COP1-mediated ubiquination of LAF1. There are a number of possibilities to reconcile these two sets of data. Firstly, although Seo et al. (2003) used recombinant MBPCOP1, they used mammalian E1 and E2 in their in vitro assays, in contrast to the yeast E1 and Arabidopsis E2 used in this work. We have ourselves noticed variations in the efficiencies of different Arabidopsis E2s with COP1. For example, this work uses the E2 AtUbc9, whereas we were unable to detect any activity using AtUbc8, which was capable of functioning with the Arabidopsis E3 CIP8 (Hardtke et al. 2002). Second, in a previous study, Seo et al. (2003) use only the coiled-coiled domain of SPA1, whereas we use the full-length fusion protein in our assays. Although the coiled-coil domain of SPA1 is necessary and sufficient for interaction with COP1, the WD40 region also has an important role to play in both substrate interaction and interaction with COP1 (Fig. 3). One possible model to explain our in vitro data is that SPA1 inhibits COP1-mediated ubiquination of HY5 by sequestering the substrate away from the active site of COP1. If such sequestration of LAF1 involves the WD40 region, as is the case with HY5, this interaction would not be seen with a truncated protein that lacks the WD40 domain. Finally, the differences between these results and those previously reported may simply be due to the use of different COP1 substrates. Although both LAF1 and HY5 are transcription factors that positively regulate photomorphogenesis, LAF1 is specific to far-red light, whereas HY5 regulates red-, far-red-, and blue-light-mediated signaling (Oyama et al. 1997; Ballesteros et al. 2001).  Treatment of seedlings with proteasome inhibitors enabled detection in vivo of polyubiquitinated forms of HY5 (Fig. 5D), demonstrating that HY5 is polyubiquitinated before its degradation. Given this observation, there appears to be a discrepancy between the results from in vitro biochemical assays and our observations in vivo. The genetic data suggest that SPA1 and COP1 act together to reduce the abundance of HY5, ultimately leading to reduced photomorphogenesis. The reduction in the abundance of HY5 involves degradation by the proteasome, and we can detect polyubiquinated HY5 in vivo under conditions in which it is being actively degraded (Fig. 5D). Given these observations, we might have expected to see an enhancement in the COP1-mediated ubiquination of HY5 in the presence of SPA1, whereas we, in fact, see an inhibitory effect (Fig. 5C). One possibility to explain this discrepancy is that the SPA1 is acting as a switch, changing the ubiquination activity of COP1 on HY5 from monoubiquitination to polyubiquination. It is possible that presence of SPA1 changes the interaction between COP1 and HY5, producing a different type of ubiquination event. Clearly, our in vitro assay system lacks the other as-yet-unidentified components of the COP1 complex(es), and it may be that one of these is essential for the polyubiquination of HY5. This missing activity may reflect the action of another ubiquitin ligase, an E4 polyubiquitination ligase subtype (Pickart, 2001), and/or that further activation of COP1 may be required to generate the polyubiquitinated forms of HY5. Another RING-finger protein, CIP8, which is capable of ubiquitinating HY5 (Hardtke et al. 2002) and directly interacting with COP1 (Torii et al. 1999), might fulfill the missing link to polyubiquitination. It is also possible that further modification of HY5, which is absent from our in vitro experiments, is required in planta for polyubiquitination.  The E3 activity of COP1 observed in vitro and its SPA1-mediated alteration may represent only part of their enzymatic function. Further study is required to reveal the physiological significance of the monoubiquination activity of COP1 on HY5. Nevertheless, it is certain that SPA1 is inherently capable of modulating the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of COP1. It is conceivable that distinct light signals are acting through different COP1 complex components, of which SPA1 is the component primarily responsible for mediating far-red light regulation of COP1 activity. The direct interaction between COP1 and SPA1 provides a molecular basis for the convergence of PHYA-mediated signaling and COP1, and how far red light regulates activity of photomorphogenesis promoting transcription factors such as HY5 and thus developmental pattern. 
!~MM~! The wild-type plants used were of the Wassilewskija ecotype unless otherwise stated. The cop, spa1-3, hy5-ks50 mutants and the HY5-overexpression lines used have been described previously (McNellis et al. 1994; Oyama et al. 1997; Hoecker et al. 1999; Hardtke et al. 2002; Suzuki et al. 2002). Seed sterilization and plant growth conditions were performed as previously described (Hardtke et al. 2002). Vernalized seeds were exposed to white light for 6-10 h, and then transferred to continuous light conditions (6 µM m-2 s-1 for far-red light, 10 µM m-2 s-1 for red light, 4 µM m-2 s-1 for blue light, and 30 µM m-2 s-1 for white light), unless otherwise stated. Anthocyanin content of seedlings was determined as described previously (McNellis et al. 1994). Total RNA extractions, Northern blot procedures, and microarray analysis and hierarchical clustering were performed as previously described (Osterlund et al. 2000; Wang et al. 2002). For raw data, see http://plantgenomics.biology.yale.edu.  Protein extraction, gel filtration, and Western blot analyses were essentially performed as described previously (Hardtke et al. 2002) except using buffer A (50 mM Tris at pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 10 mM NaF, 25 mM β-glycerophosphate, 2 mM sodium orthovanadate, 10% glycerol, 0.1% Tween 20, 1 mM DTT, 1 mM PMSF, and 1× complete protease inhibitor cocktail; Roche) for lysis and gel filtration. A Superose 6 (Amersham) column was used for gel filtration. For IgG-bead precipitation, after incubation of the extracts with IgG-agarose beads (Amersham) in buffer A without DTT (buffer B) for 3 h at 4°C, beads were washed twice in buffer B, and then twice more in buffer B containing 200 mM NaCl. The precipitated protein was eluted into buffer C (100 mM glycine at pH 2.5, 100 mM NaCl), and then concentrated by using Strataresin (Stratagene). Immunoprecipitation was performed essentially as IgG precipitation described above, except that protein A-Sepharose beads (Pierce) coupled to anti-HY5 serum or pre-immune serum were used, and all the processes were performed in presence of proteasome inhibitors (MG132, MG115, and PS1 at 25 µM each; Calbiochem). Anti-myc monoclonal antibody (the 9E10 clone) was used to detect TAP-SPA1 fusion protein.  The assay system, all the procedures, and all the constructs for COP1 have been described previously (Wang et al. 2001). The HY5VP-AA mutations were introduced via PCR as described previously (Holm et al. 2001).  The SPA1 cDNA was inserted into a modified N-terminal TAP tag (Rigaut et al. 1999) in pZP222 (Hajdukiewicz et al. 1994). Sequence analyses revealed that the resulted SPA1 sequence contains one amino acid substitution in the very C terminus (V1029C). At least two independent T3 transgenic lines were used for subsequent analyses.  N-terminal fusions between MBP and Arabidopsis COP1 and SPA1 coding regions were expressed in BL21 codon plus (Stratagene) Escherichia coli cells, and purified by using Amylose resin (New England Biolabs). For experiments with denatured MBPCOP1, the protein was boiled for 10 min at 95°C before addition to the ubiquination reaction. The GST-fusion protein with Arabidopsis HY5 was prepared as described previously (Hardtke et al. 2002). An N-terminal 6xHis tag with Arabidopsis UBC9 was produced in the plasmid pQE30 (Qiagen) and purified by using Ni-NTA resin (Qiagen) according to manufacturer's protocol. In vitro ubiquitination assays were performed in a total volume of 30 µL consisting of 50 mM Tris (pH 7.5), 10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM ATP, 1 µg biotinylated ubiquitin (Affiniti), ∼25 ng yeast E1 (Sigma), 25 ng AtUBC9, 500 ng GSTHY5, 500 ng MBP-COP1, and 500 ng MBP-SPA1. Reactions were incubated for 2 h at 30°C before being terminated by the addition of SDS sample buffer. Products conjugated with biotinylated ubiquitin were detected by incubation of Western blots with streptavidin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase (Amersham), followed by chemiluminescence visualization. 
