!~ABS~! Phospholipase D (PLD) and heterotrimeric G-protein both play important, diverse roles in cellular regulation and signal transduction. Here we have determined the physical interaction between plant PLD and the only canonical α-subunit (Gα) of the G-protein in Arabidopsis thaliana and the molecular basis for the interaction. PLDα1 expressed in either Escherichia coli or Arabidopsis was co-precipitated with Gα. PLDα1 contains a sequence motif analogous to the Gα-interacting DRY motif normally conserved in G-protein-coupled receptors. Mutation of the central Lys residue PLDK564A of this motif abolished the PLDα1-Gα binding, whereas mutation of the two flanking residues PLDE563A and PLDF565A decreased the binding. Addition of Gα to PLDα1 inhibited PLDα1 activity, whereas the PLDK564A mutation that disrupted the Gα-PLDα1 binding abolished the inhibition. GTP relieved the Gα inhibition of PLDα1 activity and also inhibited the binding between PLDα1 and Gα. Meanwhile, the PLDα1-Gα interaction stimulated the intrinsic GTPase activity of Gα. Therefore, these results have demonstrated the direct binding between Gα and PLDα1, identified the DRY motif on PLDα1 as the site for the interaction, and indicated that the interaction modulates reciprocally the activities of PLDα1 and Gα. 
!~RES~! Gα Binds to PLDα1 Expressed in E. coli and Arabidopsis— Gα and PLDα1 were expressed in E. coli as GST-fused and His-tagged proteins, respectively (Fig. 1A). Both PLDα1 and Gα are catalytically active as indicated by the presence of their respective activities (Figs. 1B and 2A). When bacterial lysate harboring His-PLDα1 was incubated with the lysate containing GST-Gα, PLDα1 was pulled down together with GST-Gα by glutathione beads (Fig. 2A). The presence of PLDα1 in the precipitates was measured by immunoblotting with PLDα1-specific antibodies and assaying PLDα1 activity (Fig. 2A). PLDα1 was not pulled down with GST, indicating that the co-precipitation resulted from the presence of Gα but not GST or the beads. To estimate the stoichiometry of the interaction, Gα and PLDα1 were purified and co-incubated at different molar ratios (Fig. 2B). Increasing the ratio of PLDα1 to Gα from 0.5 to 1 led to a doubling of the PLD co-precipitated with Gα, whereas an increase in the molar ratio to 2:1 did not lead to a further increase in PLDα complexed with Gα. These results indicate that PLDα1 binds to Gα in a 1:1 ratio.  [[FIGURE]]  [[FIGURE]]  To demonstrate the association of Gα with native PLDα1, the purified Gα was incubated with Arabidopsis leaf protein extracts followed by precipitation with glutathione beads. Native PLDα1 was co-precipitated with Gα as measured by immunoblotting and PLDα1-specific activity assays (Fig. 3). As a control, GST beads gave negligible binding to PLDα1 from plant extracts. The amount of PLDα1 co-precipitated with Gα increased as the amount of Gα was increased (Fig. 3), indicating that the Gα and PLDα1 binding is dose-dependent.  [[FIGURE]]  PLDα1 Contains a DRY-like Motif That Is Responsible for Its Binding to Gα—To determine the molecular basis for the PLDα1 and Gα interaction, the PLDα1 sequence was analyzed for the presence of sequences with similarity to known G-protein-interacting motifs. At amino acid residues 562–586, the sequence of PLDα1 is highly similar to the DRY motif that has been found in more than 200 GPCRs (Fig. 4, A and B). This motif in GPCRs is located at the cytosolic juncture of the third transmembrane domain and is thought to associate with Gα of heterotrimeric G-proteins (CITATION, CITATION). The DRY motif consists of a core triplet of amino acids, D-R-Y, and also a highly conserved hydrophobic region, VYVVV, located immediately downstream. The hydrophobic region is completely conserved in PLDα1 (Fig. 4B) and is conservatively modified in eight other Arabidopsis PLDs. The corresponding triplet amino acids in PLDα1 are conservatively substituted to EKF, which lies between the two duplicated, catalytic HKD motifs (Fig. 4A). Conservative substitutions of the DRY amino acid residues are allowable. For example, receptors in chicken and bullfrog both exhibit E-R-F (Fig. 4B).  [[FIGURE]]  The EKF residues were mutated individually to Ala to determine the involvement of each of the residues in Gα binding. All of the three mutated PLDα1s displayed the PLD activity comparable with that of wild-type PLD (Fig. 4C), indicating that changing any of the residues to Ala results in no major alteration of PLD catalytic activity. GST-Gα was then co-incubated with the same amounts of wild-type and mutated PLDα1s (Fig. 4D), followed by precipitation of Gα with glutathione beads. Virtually no PLDα1K564A was co-precipitated as measured by the lack of PLDα1 protein (Fig. 4E) and activity (Fig. 4F) in the Gα precipitates. The amount of mutated PLDE563A and PLDF565A co-purified with Gα was more than 3-fold lower than that of wild-type PLDα1 (Fig. 4, E and F). These results indicate that the residue Lys564 is essential for PLDα1 to interact with Gα, whereas the flanking Glu563 and Phe565 are important for enhancing this interaction.  Association of Gα with PLDα1 Decreases PLDα1 Activity—To test the effect of the Gα binding on PLDα1 activity, purified Gα was co-incubated with wild-type and mutated PLDα1s at approximately a 1:1 molar ratio, followed by assaying PLDα1 activity (Fig. 5). Addition of Gα decreased the wild-type PLDα1 activity by more than 3-fold, whereas addition of the same amount of an unrelated protein, BSA, had no effect, indicating that the Gα inhibition is not a nonspecific protein effect (Fig. 5A). The Gα inhibition of PLDα1E563A or PLDα1K565A was not as strong as that of wild-type PLDα1, and the lower degree of inhibition is consistent with the decreased Gα binding exhibited by these mutated PLDs. Gα had the least inhibitory effect on PLDα1K564A (Fig. 5A), which exhibited very little binding to Gα (Fig. 4, E and F). The extent of Gα inhibition of PLDα1 is conversely correlated with the binding ability of the various PLDα1s to Gα, indicating that the binding is required for the Gα inhibition of PLDα1 activity.  [[FIGURE]]  The Gα inhibition of PLD activity was also observed with proteins from Arabidopsis (Fig. 5B). When purified GST-Gα was co-incubated with Arabidopsis leaf protein extracts, Gα decreased ∼60% of PLDα1 activity, whereas co-incubation with the same molar amount of GST or BSA had no effect on PLD activity. This result indicates that the inhibition is caused by Gα, not by GST or agarose beads present in the solution. The extent of inhibition for the leaf PLD was smaller than that of the bacterially expressed PLDα1, which could be caused by having other PLDs in plant extracts, as all Arabidopsis PLDs are active under the PC-PIP2 assay conditions (CITATION, CITATION). In addition, because the molar amount of PLDα1 in plant extracts was difficult to determine, the presence of excessive PLDα1 could also contribute to less inhibition of PLD by Gα.  Guanine Nucleotides Affect the Gα-PLDα1 Binding and PLDα1 Activity—Gα can bind GDP and GTP; it is GDP-bound in the resting state, whereas an exchange of GDP for GTP is associated with the activation of Gα. To determine whether guanine nucleotides affect the Gα-PLDα1 interaction, purified PLDα1 and Gα were co-incubated at a 1:1 molar ratio in the presence of different concentrations of the hydrolysis-resistant analogues GDPβS and GTPγS. GDPβS gave a dose-dependent inhibition, whereas GTPγS yielded a dose-dependent stimulation of PLDα1 activity (Fig. 6A). When GDPβS or GTPγS was added to the DRY motif mutants and Gα complexes, the activity of PLDα1K564A was not affected significantly (Fig. 6, B and C; GST versus K564A). Compared with that of wild-type PLDα1 and PLDα1K564A, GDPβS and GTPγS had an intermediate inhibitory and stimulatory effect, respectively, on the activity of PLDα1E563A and PLDα1F565A (Fig. 6, B and C; wild-type (WT) versus E563A and F565A). Binding results showed that PLDα1K564A was unable to bind to Gα and that PLDα1E563A and PLDα1F565A had decreased binding (Fig. 4E). Thus, these nucleotide effects on PLD activity are in agreement with the Gα binding abilities of these PLDs, indicating that guanine nucleotides modulate PLD activity through their effects on the Gα and PLDα1 binding.  [[FIGURE]]  The effect of guanine nucleotides on the Gα-PLDα1 binding was further determined using Arabidopsis leaf extracts (Fig. 7). Consistent with the results shown in Figs. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, Gα was able to bind to PLDα1 without any added guanine nucleotide. Adding GDPβS to plant protein extracts increased the amounts of PLDα1 co-purified with Gα as measured by immunoblotting and assaying PLDα1 activity in the co-precipitates (Fig. 7). Conversely, GTPγS decreased the Gα-PLDα1 binding in a dose-dependent manner. The inhibition of Gα-PLDα1 binding by Gpp(NH)p, another guanosine triphosphate nucleotide analogue, was even greater than that by GTPγS; almost no PLDα1 was co-precipitated with Gα at 20 μm Gpp(NH)p. This difference could be attributed to the possibility that the Gpp(NH)p is more stable than GTPγS (Fig. 7). These results indicate that the binding of GTP to Gα, thus the activation of Gα, decreases the interaction between Gα and PLDα1, whereas Gα in the resting, presumably GDP-bound state binds to PLD.  [[FIGURE]]  PLDα1 Binding Stimulates GTPase Activity—To determine potential reciprocal effects of the Gα-PLDα1 interaction, the intrinsic GTPase activity of Gα was determined in the presence of wild-type PLDα1 or the non-Gα-binding mutant PLDα1K564A. Wild-type PLDα1 increased the GTPase activity by about 35%, whereas PLDα1K564A had no stimulatory effect on the GTPase activity (Fig. 8A). This result indicates that binding of PLDα to Gα is required for the PLDα1 stimulation of Gα-mediated hydrolysis of GTP. The kinetics of the GTPase activity was assessed by varying the substrate GTP concentrations in the presence or absence of PLDα1 (Fig. 8B). The Michaelis constant Km and the maximal rate Vmax were derived by the Lineweaver-Burk plot. With or without PLDα1, the Km for GTP was 182 nm. The Vmax was 27.0 and 36.4 pmol/mg of protein/min in the presence or absence of PLDα1, respectively. These data suggest that the PLDα1 promotes the turnover number of the GTPase activity without affecting the affinity of Gα for GTP.  [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Expression and Purification of Active Plant PLDα in Escherichia coli—Arabidopsis PLDα1 cDNA was cloned previously in pBlue SK (CITATION). The 2.4-kb PLDα1 cDNA was amplified by polymerase chain reaction and cloned into the pGEM T-easy vector. The forward and reverse primers were 5′-GCGGATCCATGGCGCAGCATCTGTTGCACG and 5′-CGGAGCTCTTAGGTTGTAAGGATTGGAGGC, respectively, and the bold letters mark the inserted BamHI and SacI sites. The PLDα1 cDNA insert was digested with BamHI and SacI and ligated into the pET28(+)a vector to produce PLDα1 with 6 histidine residues fused at the N terminus. The recombinant plasmid was transformed into E. coli BL21(DE3). Expression of PLDα1 was induced by 0.1 mm isopropyl-1-thio-β-d-galactopyranoside at room temperature for 12 h. After induction, bacteria were precipitated and lysed by sonication in phosphate-buffered saline plus 2 mm phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride. Bacterial lysate was centrifuged at 12,000 × g for 10 min. The resulting supernatant was incubated with Ni-affinity agarose beads for 1 h. The beads were pelleted by centrifugation at 500 × g at 4 °C and washed three times with a washing buffer containing 20 mm Tris-HCl, 0.5 m NaCl, and 20 mm imidazole at pH 8.0. PLDα1 bound to the resin was eluted with an elution buffer with 1 m imidazole, Tris-HCl, and 0.5 m NaCl. In some cases, PLDα1 bound to resins was used directly for assaying PLDα1 activity. Concentration of the purified PLDα1 was measured by the Bradford method using a Bio-Rad kit with bovine serum albumin (BSA) as a standard. The protein was stored in 20% glycerol at –20 °C until use.  Expression and Purification of Active Plant Gα in E. coli—An Arabidopsis Gα cDNA clone was generously provided by Dr. Hong Ma (Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA) (CITATION). The 1.3-kb Gα cDNA was amplified by PCR and cloned into the pGEM T-easy vector. The forward and reverse primers were 5′-GAATTCATGGGCTTACTCTGCAGTAGAA and 5′-CTCGAGTCATAAAAGGCCAGCCTCCAGTA, respectively, and the bold letters mark the inserted EcoRI and XhoI sites. The cDNA insert was digested with XhoI and EcoRI and ligated into pGEX-4T to produce Gα with glutathione S-transferase (GST) fused at the N terminus. Junction of the GST-GPA1 fusion and full-length cDNA of Gα was confirmed by sequencing. The recombinant plasmid was transformed into E. coli BL21(DE3) to express the GST-fused Gα according to the procedure described previously (CITATION).  Site-directed Mutagenesis of the DRY Motif in PLDα1—Mutagenesis of the three codons in the putative DRY motif of PLDα1 was performed using the QuikChange XL site-directed mutagenesis kit according to the manufacturer's instructions (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). The three complementary reverse primers for mutating E563A, K564A, and F565A were as follows: 5′-GATTGAGAAAGGAGCGAAGTTCAGGGTCTATGTTGTGG, 5′-GATTGAGAAAGGAGAGGCGTTCAGGGTCTATGTTGTGG, and 5′-GAGAAAGGAGAGAAGGCCAGGGTCTATGTTGTGG, respectively. The wild-type PLDα1 cDNA in pET28(+)a served as the PCR template. The mutant clones were verified by DNA sequencing and were then transformed into BL21(DE3) for protein expression. Expression and purification of the mutated PLDα1 proteins in E. coli were performed with the same procedure as that for the original PLDα1.  Protein Extraction from Arabidopsis—Fully expanded leaves of Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia) plants were frozen with liquid N2 and homogenized with a buffer containing 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), 80 mm KCl, 2 mm EDTA, 5 mm dithiothreitol, and 2 mm phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride. The homogenate was centrifuged at 10,000 × g at 4 °C for 15 min, and the resultant supernatant was used as protein extracts for co-precipitation. Protein concentration in the supernatant was measured by the Bradford method using a Bio-Rad kit with BSA as a standard.  PLDα Pulldown by GST-Gα-Agarose Beads and Immunoblotting— Purified GST-Gα-agarose beads were incubated with plant protein extracts; bacterially expressed PLDα1; or PLDα1 mutants in a co-precipitation buffer containing 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 8.0), 200 mm NaCl, 2 mm MgCl2, 5 mm CaCl2, and protease inhibitors (5 μg each of aprotinin, leupeptin, and antipain) in a total volume of 150 μl. After incubation at 4 °C for 3 h, beads were pelleted by centrifugation at 500 × g and washed three times with the co-precipitation buffer containing 0.01% Triton X-100 at 4 °C. Pulldown beads were assayed for PLDα1 activity and/or were subjected to 10% SDS-PAGE, followed by immunoblotting with antibodies specific to PLDα1. PLDα1 polyclonal antibodies were raised in rabbit against the 13 C-terminal amino acid residues as described previously (CITATION). PLD bands on blots were visualized by staining alkaline phosphatase activity conjugated to a second antibody (goat against rabbit immunoglobulin). The procedures for SDS-PAGE, protein blotting, and band detection were described previously (CITATION).  PLDα1 Activity Assays—PLD activity was assayed by using 1,2-dipalmitoyl-3-phosphatidyl-[methyl-3H]choline as a substrate. Two different methods were used. One is the common plant PLD activity assay involving the use of phosphatidylcholine (PC), 25 mm Ca2+, and 0.3 mm SDS (CITATION). This assay is economical and specific for PLDα1 and thus was used for most PLDα1 assays unless otherwise stated. When the effect of Gα binding on PLD activity was measured, however, the presence of SDS and high levels of Ca2+ might have interfered with the PLD-Gα interaction. Thus, a second PLD assay was used, which contained mixed lipid vesicles composed of 3.6 μmol of phosphatidylethanolamine, 0.32 μmol of PIP2, and 0.22 μmol of PC in the presence of 100 μm CaCl2. This assay, referred to as the PC-PIP2 method, was performed according to a procedure described previously (CITATION).  Assay of GTPase Activity of E. coli-expressed GPA1—GTPase activity assays were performed using the EnzChek® phosphate assay kit (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR). The rate of phosphate released from GTP by Gα was monitored spectrophotometrically at A360 nm according to the manufacturer's instructions. Briefly, the assay mixture contained different amounts of GST-Gα, 10 μl of 0.2 mm GTP or GTP at indicated concentrations, 0.2 ml of 2-amino-6-mercapto-7-methylpurine ribonucleotide, 10 μl (1 unit) of purine nucleotide phosphorylase, and 0.72 ml of reaction buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, and 10 mm NaCl) in a total volume of 1 ml in a cuvette. After mixing, the reaction was started with addition of 10 mm MgCl2. Absorbance changes were recorded every 5 min. The amount of phosphate released from GTP was calculated based on a standard curve that was determined with known amounts of KPO4 in the same manner as described above. 
