!~ABS~! Vascular plants have a long-distance transport system consisting of two tissue types with elongated cell files, phloem and xylem (CITATION) . Phloem has two basic cell types, enucleate sieve elements and companion cells. Xylem has various lignified cell types, such as tracheary elements, the differentiation of which involves deposition of elaborate cell wall thickenings and programmed cell death (CITATION) . Until now, little has been known about the genetic control of phloem–xylem patterning. Here we identify the ALTERED PHLOEM DEVELOPMENT (APL) gene, which encodes a MYB coiled-coil-type transcription factor that is required for phloem identity in Arabidopsis. Phloem is established through asymmetric cell divisions and subsequent differentiation. We show that both processes are impaired by a recessive apl mutation. This is associated with the formation of cells that have xylem characteristics in the position of phloem. The APL expression profile is consistent with a key role in phloem development. Ectopic APL expression in the vascular bundle inhibits xylem development. Our studies suggest that APL has a dual role both in promoting phloem differentiation and in repressing xylem differentiation during vascular development.
!~RES~! The genetic control of vascular tissue identity is not well understood, although there is some genetic evidence for the involvement of a dorsiventral gradient specifying plant organs (CITATION) , as well as indirect physiological evidence for the involvement of various phytohormones (such as auxin, cytokinin and gibberellic acid (GA)) and/or sugars (CITATION) . We report here the isolation and characterization of a novel Arabidopsis mutant defective in formation of the xylem–phloem pattern. A schematic of vascular tissue development is shown in Fig. 1a. The seedling lethal apl mutant displays a determinate root growth with only occasional branches, shoot development ultimately being arrested after formation of a few true leaves (Fig. 1b). Whereas the general pattern of the cell layers and other vascular cell files in an apl root is normal, neither sieve elements (SE) nor companion cells (CC) are evident in the location of the phloem poles (Fig. 1c). Furthermore, the characteristic callose deposition in SE of the cotyledon/hypocotyl junction (CITATION) is missing in apl seedlings (Fig. 1d). Strikingly, cells with characteristics of the tracheary elements (TE) of xylem are often observed in the positions normally occupied by SE (Fig. 1c, e). Phloem development is also specifically defective in the aerial organs (Fig. 1d; see leaf/hypocotyl in Supplementary Fig. S1a, b). There appears to be a slight delay (1 day in hypocotyl and 7 days in root) in the differentiation of the TE-like elements in the ectopic position compared with that in the normal position (which happens in both hypocotyl and root 1–2 days after germination). [[FIGURE]] To define the role of APL in phloem formation, we performed a detailed characterization of the apl mutant during root development. In wild type, phloem poles arise through a set of specific cell divisions (Fig. 1a) with tangential divisions (n = 12; n indicates the number of division events analysed) giving rise to prospective SE cell files and periclinal divisions (n = 24) to the CC files (CITATION) . These divisions typically take place 50 µm above the quiescent centre (QC). In the apl vascular bundle, the timing of 3 out of 12 tangential and 12 out of 24 periclinal divisions seems to be delayed (Fig. 2a). In wild type, at about 70 µm above the QC, differentiation of the protophloem SE is evident. This differentiation process typically does not take place in apl (Supplementary Fig. S2a). In addition, the GFP signal specific for the protophloem SE after the tangential division in line J0701 is not detected in the apl background (Fig. 2b). Furthermore, expression of the CC-specific AtSUC2pro::GFP (CITATION) is not observed in any part of the mutant line (Fig. 2c). In contrast to the phloem determinants, the various markers for xylem and xylem-associated cells appear as in wild type (Supplementary Fig. S2c, d). To investigate whether the defects in cell differentiation of apl seedlings are dependent on problems in the phloem-related divisions, we introduced fass into the apl background. The fass mutant undergoes excessive numbers of cell divisions in all tissues (CITATION) and is known to rescue the wooden-leg (wol) mutant, in which reduced cell proliferation during vascular development is accompanied by exclusive protoxylem differentiation. This indicates that wol affects morphogenesis rather than pattern formation (CITATION) . The fass apl double mutant phenotype is additive; more vascular cells are present but TE-like cells are still found in the position of phloem (Fig. 2d). We conclude that APL is required for the asymmetric cell divisions as well as for SE and CC differentiation during phloem development, and that the absence of APL function results in differentiation of TE-like cells at the site of the phloem pole. [[FIGURE]] To identify the APL locus at a molecular level, we determined that the apl mutation resulted from an En-1 transposition event that disrupts the fifth exon of the gene At1g79430 (supported by a full-length complementary DNA, accession number NM_179574). The putative APL protein has 358 amino acid residues and contains a MYB-related DNA-binding domain and a predicted coiled-coil dimerization domain (CITATION) (Fig. 3a). A 6,535-base-pair (bp) genomic DNA fragment containing only the APL gene can rescue the apl mutant phenotype (Fig. 1c). Cosegregation of the En-1 transposon with the apl mutation and an excision event of En-1 confirmed the localization (see Methods). The insertion of En-1 results in a truncated form of the putative APL protein (159 amino-acid residues), containing MYB and only part of the coiled-coil domain. These data, and the northern hybridization analysis showing that APL messenger RNA does not accumulate in the apl background (Fig. 3b), indicate that the apl mutation results in loss of function. [[FIGURE]] Next, we examined the developmental expression pattern of the APL gene. Based on northern analysis, APL is expressed in both shoot and root (Fig. 3b). To localize the expression at a cellular level during root development, we performed in situ hybridization. We found that APL is first specifically expressed in the developing protophloem SE soon after the phloem-specific cell divisions have taken place, then it is expressed slightly higher up the in the CC and metaphloem SE (Fig. 3c). Phloem-specific expression of APLpromoter::GUS was observed throughout the vascular strands in Arabidopsis seedlings (Fig. 3d). Consistent with the APL expression pattern close to the meristem detected by in situ hybridization, APLpro::GUS expression in the primary root is first restricted to the cell files of protophloem SE (Fig. 3d; Supplementary Fig. S3a). A pattern involving a broader expression domain of GUS was observed 7–8 cells higher. We next investigated the subcellular localization of APL by constructing a fusion of the green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene and APL, placed under the regulation of the APL promoter. The APLpro::GFP–APL fusion construct was able to rescue the developmentally arrested phenotype of apl, indicating that the fusion protein retained APL activity (data not shown). GFP–APL fluorescence was observed in the nucleus of the developing SE and CC in a dynamic pattern (Fig. 3f, g; Supplementary Fig. S3b), mirroring the temporal and spatial differentiation events of the two phloem cell types. To investigate when phloem identity is established, we analysed the status of vascular anatomy and APL expression during embryogenesis. APLpro::GUS was detected in the prospective phloem tissue of embryonic cotyledons and hypocotyl in a nearly mature, but not a torpedo-stage, embryo (Fig. 3e; data not shown). Before APL expression, a distinct vascular pattern consisting of four nearly identical poles was observed in hypocotyl and in root (Fig. 3h; Supplementary Fig. S3c). In embryonic hypocotyl, after the onset of APL expression a somewhat variable anatomical pattern only occasionally similar to that of the postembryonic root was observed (Fig. 3i; compare with Fig. 2a). Thus, compared with the patterning of the outer layers (which has occurred by the torpedo stage (CITATION) ), the patterning of phloem starts relatively late during embryogenesis and is completed only postembryonically. Although the developmental expression pattern of APL suggests that APL may regulate phloem identity throughout plant development, the highly variable nature of the embryonic pattern in wild type precludes a conclusive phenotypic analysis of the apl embryos. Based on the presence of TE-like cells in the apl phloem poles, it appears that APL may be capable of inhibiting the differentiation of TE-like identity characteristic of xylem. To investigate this, we expressed APL throughout the procambial region of the root under regulation of the CRE1/WOL/AHK4 promoter, WOLpro (CITATION) (Supplementary Fig. S4a–c). WOLpro::APL transgenic seedlings exhibited normal growth and cellular patterns (Supplementary Fig. S4d). However, the lignin deposition pattern and cell viability revealed a striking phenotype during xylem development (Fig. 4a, b; Supplementary Fig. S4e). Mirroring the strong activity of the WOL promoter near the root tip, cells that normally differentiate as TE in the protoxylem position remain undifferentiated in the WOLpro::APL plants (Fig. 4c, d). Furthermore, higher up in the centre of the vascular bundle, cells in the metaxylem position differentiate later than those in the wild type (Supplementary Fig. S4e). It is unclear why cells in the protoxylem position remain specifically undifferentiated even further up. We conclude that WOLpro::APL is sufficient to inhibit differentiation of TE. Consistent with this model of the repressive activity of APL on an early step of xylem differentiation, WOLpro::APL can suppress the all-protoxylem vascular pattern of wol roots, resulting in an array of phloem–xylem patterns (data not shown). On the basis of anatomical analysis and detection of a nucleus in the undifferentiated cells, it appears that APL itself is not sufficient to promote phloem development in an ectopic location (Fig. 4e, f; Supplementary Fig. S4f–i). [[FIGURE]] We believe that APL is the first gene function to be identified that is specifically required for vascular identity in plants. The mutant analysis indicates a role for APL during both phloem-related cell divisions and cell differentiation. However, the spatial expression pattern specific for the developing SE and CC somewhat higher up than the dividing cells indicates that APL may be required primarily for SE and CC differentiation. In this scenario, the defects in phloem-related cell divisions may be secondary, either because of the absence of an as yet unknown cell non-autonomous action of APL, or alternatively because of a metabolic problem associated with abnormal phloem differentiation in apl cells. The contrasting nature of the apl phenotype (with TE-like cells in positions normally occupied by phloem) and the WOLpro::APL phenotype (with undifferentiated cells in the protoxylem position) suggests that in addition to promoting phloem differentiation, APL may also be required for inhibiting xylem differentiation in phloem poles during vascular development. An analogous concept has been described for Notch5 during artery–vein pattern formation in zebrafish; it is required for arterial development, and when ectopically expressed, can repress venous cell fate (CITATION) . The targets (some of them possibly related to phytohormone-mediated functions (CITATION) ) of the positive and repressive functions of APL remain to be identified. Furthermore, it remains to be determined whether vascular identity is influenced through APL by the dorsiventral regulation of organ polarity in plants.
!~MM~! The apl mutant (selected from an En-1 mutagenized pool (CITATION) ) was inherited as a recessive mendelian trait (507wt:185apl). For mapping, apl (Columbia ecotype) was crossed to Ler plant. Analysis of 1,020 F2 plants delimited APL to a 98-kilobase (kb) region between the newly generated markers at position yUP8H12R-78,178 kb and T8K14-56,936 kb. In addition, two TAC clones (CITATION) (88N24 and 49O23) representing a 30-kb region in this window complemented the mutant phenotype. To locate the En-1-tagged position, we designed specific oligonucleotide primer pairs to amplify by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) the overlapping fragments that spanned this window. One of the primer pairs showed the expected PCR product (1,576 bp) in Colombia ecotype, whereas the amplification of genomic DNA in apl was undetectable, suggesting that the transposon insertion was in this region. To identify the En-1-tagged position, the genomic PCR product from apl (851 bp) using the En-1-specific primer 5′-TCAGGCTCACATCATGCTAGTCC-3′ and the gene-specific primer 5′-TTGGTTTGATCAGGATGCAAATGG-3′ was sequenced. Cosegregation analysis was performed using the primers indicated above, and the genotype of the individual plants was determined by the segregation ratio of their progeny. The resultant PCR fragment cosegregated with apl plants (n = 10) and APL/apl heterozygous plants (n = 8), whereas no detectable PCR product containing the En-1 transposon fragment was observed in wild-type plants (n = 6). Furthermore, an En-1 excision event restoring the open reading frame of the APL gene was analysed. For complementation analysis, the 6,535-bp PvuI–BamHI genomic DNA fragment was cloned into the pRD400 binary vector and introduced into Agrobacterium strain C58C1 GV3101. The construct was transformed into heterozygous APL/apl plants. Independent T2 plants were genotyped and were analysed for the segregation ratio using PCR. To generate the WOLpro::APL construct, a HindIII genomic fragment of APL containing the entire coding region was subcloned from TAC 88N24 into pBluescript II. A SmaI site was introduced immediately before the ATG start codon, and a SacI site was introduced at position 144 after the TGA stop codon. The resulting SmaI–SacI fragment containing the 1.76-kb APL coding region was fused to the 3′ fragment of the 2.7-kb WOL promoter region in binary vector pBIN19. The plasmids were electroporated into Agrobacterium strain GV3101, which was used to transform an Arabidopsis plant by the floral dip method. Transgenic lines were selected on MS media supplemented with 50 µg ml-1 kanamycin. Multiple transgenic lines were obtained, and two independent transgenic lines in which the transgene inserted at a single locus were selected for further characterization. The status of APL expression in these seedlings was confirmed by in situ hybridization (Supplementary Fig. S4c). To construct APLpro::GUS, the 2.9-kb APL 5′ upstream region was cloned as a SalI–SmaI fragment into pBI101. To make the in-frame fusion of APL and GFP, we introduced restriction sites at both ends of coding sequences for APL and GFP. A linker sequence encoding triple copies of glycine was inserted between APL and GFP. The β-glucuronidase (GUS) fragment from an APLpro::GUS construct was replaced by the GFP–APL fragment. The GFP marker lines used in this study are described at http://www.plantsci.cam.ac.uk/Haseloff/CATALOGUES/Jlines/index.html and were obtained through the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. Plastic embedding, sectioning, staining, photography, fuchsin staining and confocal imaging were performed as described (CITATION) . The anatomical studies on phloem cell division and differentiation were carried out on 3-day-old seedlings. For the anatomical analysis of ectopic xylem formation and complementation, 9-day-old seedlings were used. For northern and in situ hybridization experiments, 7-day-old seedlings were prepared and sectioned as described (CITATION) . Seedlings were grown on Petri plates containing 0.5 × Murashige and Skoog salt mixture and 1% sucrose, pH 5.8, in 0.8% agar. APL gene-specific hydrolysed sense- and antisense probes representing a non-conserved region in the 3′ end of the APL gene (757 bp, 5′-CTTCTGCCATGGATATTCAGCG-3′, 5′-CACCCAAATGGCGAGTTTCTTCC-3′) were labelled using the DIG RNA labelling kit (Boehringer) according to the manufacturer's protocol. Images were processed with Adobe Photoshop 6.0.1.
