!~ABS~! Transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) is a secreted protein that regulates proliferation, differentiation, and death in various cell types, including thyroid cells, although few details are known about its mechanisms of action in this cell type. Here, we studied the role of TGF-β on the regulation of sodium/iodide symporter (NIS) gene expression in PC Cl3 thyroid cells. TGF-β inhibits thyroid-stimulated hormone (TSH)-induced NIS mRNA and protein levels in a dose-dependent manner. This effect takes place at the transcriptional level, as TGF-β inhibits TSH-induced transcription of a luciferase reporter construct containing a 2.8-kb DNA fragment of the rat NIS promoter. The inhibitory effect of TGF-β was partially overcome by inhibitory Smad7 and mimicked by overexpression of either Smad3 or a constitutively activated mutant of TGF-β receptor I (acALK-5). Using internal deletions of the promoter, we defined a region between –2,841 to –1,941, which includes the NIS upstream enhancer (NUE), as responsible for the TGF-β/Smad inhibitory effect. NUE contains two binding sites for the paired domain transcription factor Pax8, the main factor controlling NIS transcription. The physical interaction observed between Pax8 and Smad3 appears to be responsible for the decrease in Pax8 binding to DNA. Expression of Pax8 mRNA and protein was also decreased by TGF-β treatment. The results suggest that, through activation of Smad3, TGF-β decreases Pax8 DNA binding activity as well as Pax8 mRNA and protein levels, which are at least partially involved in TGF-β-induced down-regulation of NIS gene expression in thyroid follicular cells. Our results thus demonstrate a novel mechanism of Smad3 function in regulating thyroid cell differentiation by functionally antagonizing the action of the paired domain transcription factor Pax8. 
!~RES~! TGF-β Inhibits TSH-induced NIS mRNA and Protein Levels—Starved PC Cl3 cells were treated with TSH or TSH plus TGF-β, and NIS mRNA and protein levels were analyzed by Northern (Fig. 1A) and Western blot (Fig. 1B) assays. As described (9), TSH stimulated NIS mRNA (Fig. 1A) and protein (Fig. 1B) levels, and TGF-β repressed the stimulatory effect of TSH in a dose-dependent manner (Fig. 1, A and B). The maximum inhibitory effect was reached at 10 ng/ml TGF-β. These data demonstrated that TGF-β interferes with TSH induction of NIS gene expression.   [[FIGURE]] TGF-β Down-regulates TSH-dependent Transcriptional Activation of the NIS Gene—To study whether TGF-β regulates transcription of the NIS gene, we used a 2.8-kb fragment of the rat NIS promoter (pNIS-2.8) (21). The pNIS-2.8 contains the NUE, a regulatory element necessary for a full TSH response (9). Luciferase reporter constructs containing the full-length DNA fragment or 5′-deletion derivatives were transiently transfected into PC Cl3 cells and assayed for transcriptional activity in response to TSH and TGF-β. TSH induced a significant stimulation of pNIS-2.8 activity, whereas TGF-β decreased the TSH-mediated transactivation in a dose-dependent manner (Fig. 2A). The NIS promoter activity was not affected by TGF-β in the absence of TSH (not shown).   [[FIGURE]] To identify the promoter region responsible for TGF-β regulation, we analyzed the transcriptional activity of the NUE-less 5′-deletion constructs pNIS-2, pNIS-1.2, and pNIS-0.5 (Fig. 2B). As described previously, the NUE is required for full TSH stimulation of the NIS gene, and TGF-β had no effect on the transcriptional activity of any 5′-deletion constructs (Fig. 2B). TGF-β inhibition was thus abolished in chimeras that do not bear the NUE enhancer. The transfection of the constructs pNIS-2.8, pNIS-NUE-1.2, and pNIS-NUE-0.5 showed a significant activity in response to TSH as well as a reduction in luciferase activity when TGF-β was added together with TSH for 24 h (Fig. 2C). In summary, the results indicate that TGF-β interferes with TSH-dependent transcriptional activation of the NIS gene and that TGF-β requires elements within or adjacent to the NUE for this regulation.  NIS Gene Repression by TGF-β Is Signaled by the Smad Proteins—To analyze the mechanism by which TGF-β down-regulates TSH-induced NIS gene transcription, we studied the intracellular mediators of the TGF-β pathway. A signaling cascade is initiated after TGF-β binding, resulting in R-Smad activation, oligomerization with Smad4, and the subsequent translocation of the Smad complex to the nucleus, where it participates in regulation of gene transcription (23, 28). To assess Smad involvement in the TGF-β effect, we cotransfected the rNIS promoter construct (pNIS-2.8) with expression vectors harboring Smad3 or Smad4 (Fig. 3A). TSH-stimulated NIS promoter activity was decreased by overexpression of Smad3 and Smad4. As predicted, the strongest inhibition was observed when both Smads were expressed (Fig. 3A). The inhibition induced by Smad4 might be caused by interaction with endogenous Smad3. Overexpression of Smad proteins thus mimicked the inhibitory effect of TGF-β on the NIS gene transcription shown above, supporting a role for the Smad pathway in TGF-β action. As Smad2 overexpression did not reproduce the TGF-β effect on NIS promoter activity (not shown), we discarded its mediation in TGF-β transcriptional repression.   [[FIGURE]] To confirm the participation of Smad signaling in TGF-β regulation of NIS, we transfected PC Cl3 cells with pNIS-2.8 in the presence of the constitutively activated TβRI (acALK-5) that phosphorylates and activates TGF-β-dependent R-Smads (24, 29). Through activation of endogenous Smads, acALK-5 overexpression reduced TSH-stimulated NIS gene transcription, mimicking the effect of TGF-β (Fig. 3B). acALK-5-mediated inhibition was dependent on the amount of vector expressed in the cell and was similar to that exerted by TGF-β.  We also analyzed the transcriptional activity of the NIS promoter (pNIS-2.8) in the presence of an inhibitory Smad (Smad7). Smad7 forms a stable association with the activated type I receptors, preventing phosphorylation of R-Smads and blocking downstream TGF-β signaling (42). Transient overexpression of Smad7 in PC Cl3 cells partially abrogated repression of NIS promoter activity by TGF-β (Fig. 3C). At the same concentrations, Smad7 partially prevented inhibition of the NIS promoter construct by acALK-5 (Fig. 3D), indicating the specificity of Smad7 in blocking Smad-mediated transcriptional repression. Altogether, the results firmly establish the functional requirement for Smad3 in mediating TGF-β transcriptional repression.  Nuclear Accumulation of Smad3 and Smad4 by TGF-β— Smad3 and Smad4 normally reside in the cytoplasm of unstimulated cells and are imported to the nucleus as complexes in response to TGF-β signaling to regulate target gene transcription (23–25, 28, 29). Because the nuclear entry of the Smads is a key step in signal transduction, we analyzed the accumulation of Smad3 and Smad4 in the nucleus of PC Cl3 cells after TGF-β treatment. We observed a rapid and a striking increase in both proteins in the nuclear fraction (Fig. 4A) with a parallel decrease in the cytosolic fraction (Fig. 4B). This effect is TGF-β-specific, because TSH alone did not induce Smad translocation to the nucleus (compare first and second lanes of Fig. 4, A and B). After prolonged TGF-β treatment (4 and 24 h), Smad3 and Smad4 levels in nuclear extracts fall, although a corresponding increase was not detected in the cytoplasmic fraction. This effect could be explained by the previously described degradation of Smads induced after long treatment with TGF-β (23). Our results showed accumulation of both Smads in the PC Cl3 cell nucleus, confirming activation of the Smad signaling pathway by TGF-β and supporting Smad participation as intracellular effectors of TGF-β action in thyroid follicular cells.   [[FIGURE]] TGF-β Decreases the Binding of Pax8 to Its Response Element in the NIS Promoter—The NUE has two Pax8-binding sites, which are required to obtain the full TSH/cAMP-dependent transcription (4, 9). Here, we demonstrate that TGF-β requires the NUE to decrease the TSH-dependent transcriptional activation of NIS. These observations prompted us to analyze whether TGF-β modified the ability of Pax8 to bind DNA. For the assay, we used a radiolabeled synthetic oligonucleotide probe, oligo PB, spanning –2409 to –2377 bp of the rNIS promoter (9) (see Fig. 5, upper panel). The band shift assay showed that TSH stimulates Pax8 binding to NUE (Fig. 5, lane 7) compared with unstimulated cells (lane 6). These data showed a reduction in the intensity of the Pax8-DNA complex in TGF-β-treated cells (lanes 8–13) compared with the control (lane 7). Complex specificity was confirmed by competition with the related (lane 3) but not with an unrelated oligonucleotide (lane 2). It is also displaced by an antibody that recognizes a Pax8 DNA-binding domain epitope (αPax8 (F-19)) (lane 4). A supershift was observed with another αPax8 antibody raised against a peptide mapping downstream of the paired domain (lane 5). The same TGF-β regulation was observed when the PA oligonucleotide, containing the other NUE-Pax8-binding site (see Fig. 5, upper panel), was used (not shown). The results indicate that TGF-β alters Pax8 binding to the NIS promoter, an event that could explain TGF-β inhibition of NIS promoter activity (Fig. 2).   [[FIGURE]] Although Smad-binding elements (SBE) are often present in the responsive region of TGF-β target genes (23, 28, 29), we could not attribute the modulation of NIS gene transcription to SBE, because we did not observe binding of activated Smads to SBE motifs in the NIS promoter (not shown). On the other hand, we never found binding of recombinant Smad proteins (GST-Smad3 and GST-Smad4) to the Pax8-binding elements in the NIS promoter (not shown).  Physical Interaction between Pax8 and Smad3—Smad proteins regulate transcription in collaboration with other transcription factors through direct protein-protein interactions (25, 28). We thus studied a potential physical interaction between Smad3 and Pax8 using GST pull-down assays. ΔPax8 is a carboxyl-terminal deletion of Pax8, which includes the DNA-binding domain and lacks the transactivation domain (see Fig. 6A). Both recombinant full-length Pax8 and ΔPax8 form complexes with GST-Smad3 linked to Sepharose beads (Fig. 6A, lanes 3 and 6) but not with GST beads in a cell-free system (lanes 2 and 5). The observation that the truncated Pax8 binds the GST-Smad3 (lane 6) indicates that the physical interaction between Smad3 and Pax8 proteins does not involve the Pax8 activation domain, whereas the amino-terminal end of Pax8 appears to be sufficient for this interaction.   [[FIGURE]] In a second experimental approach, physical interactions between Pax8 and Smad3 were also demonstrated in vitro using a GST pull-down assay with nuclear PC Cl3 cell extracts (Fig. 6B). Specifically, fusion proteins consisting of GST-Smad3, GST-Pax8, or the GST portion alone coupled to Sepharose beads were incubated with nuclear extracts of quiescent PC Cl3 cells (Fig. 6B, lanes 1 and 7) or cells treated with TSH plus TGF-β (Fig. 6B, lanes 2 and 8). Interaction between Smad3 and Pax8 was confirmed through the complexes formed with GST-Smad3 beads and endogenous Pax8 (Fig. 6B, lanes 5 and 6) as well as with GST-Pax8 beads and endogenous Smad3 (Fig. 6B, lanes 11 and 12). No interaction was found with GST beads (Fig. 6B, lanes 3 and 4 and 9 and 10).  DNA Binding Activity of Pax8 to the NIS Promoter Is Reduced by Smad3—Here, we demonstrated that TGF-β decreases Pax8 DNA binding to the NIS promoter and also found a physical interaction between Pax8 and Smad3. We studied the possible role of Smad3 in regulation of Pax8-DNA complex using recombinant Smad3 (GST-Smad3). The band shift assay, performed with nuclear extract from PC Cl3 cells (Fig. 7A) or recombinant Pax8 (TnT-Pax8) (Fig. 7B), showed that as the GST-Smad3 concentration increased (Fig. 7, A and B, lanes 5–9), the amount of Pax8-DNA complex decreased. No effect was found with GST-alone (Fig. 7, A and B, lanes 2–4). These findings indicate that Smad3 is able to inhibit a Pax8-DNA complex dependent upon the association of Smad3 with the Pax8 paired domain.   [[FIGURE]] TGF-β Decreases mRNA and Protein Levels of Pax8 in PC Cl3 Cells—We also studied expression of Pax8 mRNA and protein in response to TGF-β. The results demonstrated that TGF-β down-regulated TSH-stimulated Pax8 mRNA (Fig. 8A) and protein (Fig. 8B) levels. As predicted, the decrease in Pax8 mRNA levels (A) preceded the down-regulation of Pax8 protein expression (B). All together, the results indicate that TGF-β interferes with Pax8 transcriptional activation of the NIS promoter by two mechanisms that include an initial physical interaction between Pax8 and Smad3 and the later negative regulation of Pax8 expression.   [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Cell Culture—PC Cl3 cells were cultured in Coon's modified Ham's F-12 medium supplemented with 5% donor calf serum and a six-hormone mixture (1 nm TSH, 10 μg/ml insulin, 10 ng/ml somatostatin, 5 μg/ml transferrin, 10 nm hydrocortisone, and 10 ng/ml glycyl-l-histidyl-l-lysine acetate; complete medium). The effect of hormones and growth factors was studied by starving near confluent cells for TSH and insulin in the presence of 0.2% serum (starvation medium) for 72 h. Because of the exceptionally long half-life of NIS (4), to analyze this protein the cells were starved for 7 days. After starvation, TSH (1 nm) and TGF-β (10 ng/ml) were added to culture medium (24 h unless otherwise indicated). Hormones were obtained from Sigma and TGF-β from PeproTech.  RNA Extraction and Northern Blot Analysis—Total RNA was isolated by the guanidinium-thiocyanate-phenol procedure (37) from PC Cl3 cells after treatments. Total RNA (20 μg) was separated in 1% agarose gels containing 0.44 m formaldehyde. RNA was blotted onto Nytran filters (Schleicher & Schuell). Hybridization was carried out with specific and 18 S rRNA probes labeled by random oligo priming.  Protein Extraction and Western Blot Analysis—Membranes from PC Cl3 cells were prepared by collecting cells in a buffer containing 10 mm Hepes-KOH, pH 7.5, 250 mm sucrose, 1 mm EDTA, 2 μg/ml leupeptin, and 2 μg/ml aprotinin. Cells homogenates were centrifuged (100,000 × g, 60 min, 4 °C), and the pellet was resuspended in buffer as above. For subcellular fractionation, PC Cl3 cells were collected in buffer A (10 mm Hepes-KOH, pH 7.9, 1.5 mm MgCl2, 10 mm KCl, 0.5 mm dithiothreitol, and 0.2 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride) and sedimented at low centrifugal force to pellet nuclei and unbroken cells. The supernatant (cytoplasmic extract) was collected, and the nuclear pellet was resuspended in buffer C (20 mm Hepes-KOH, pH 7.9, 25% glycerol, 420 mm NaCl, 1.5 mm MgCl2, 0.2 mm EDTA, 0.5 mm dithiothreitol, and 0.2 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride) (38). Cellular debris was removed by centrifugation, and the supernatant fraction was collected. Nuclear, cytoplasmic, and membrane protein concentration were determined according to Bradford (39). Proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and transferred to nitrocellulose membrane (Schleicher & Schuell). Ponceau S staining of the blots for NIS detection showed equal protein loading. Membranes were blocked and incubated with the antibodies. Immunoreactive bands were visualized with Luminol Western blot detection reagent (Santa Cruz Biotechnology).  Plasmids—The 2,854-bp DNA fragment (pNIS-2.8) of the rat NIS promoter was cloned in our laboratory (21). The 5′-deletion constructs with (pNIS-NUE-1.2 and pNIS-NUE-0.5) or without NUE (pNIS-2, pNIS-1.2, and pNIS-0.5) were described previously (21). pRL-TK, which contains a cDNA encoding Renilla (Promega), was used to monitor transfection efficiency. The expression vectors pCMV5-FLAG-Smad3, pCMV5-Smad4-HA, and pcDNA3-FLAG-Smad7, encoding FLAG or hemagglutinin (HA) epitope-tagged human Smad members, and pCMV5-TβRI (ALK-5), harboring a constitutively activated form of the TGF-β receptor type I (TβRI), have been described previously (40–42). Full-length Pax8 and the carboxyl-terminal deletion ΔPax8 were subcloned in our laboratory in the pcDNA3.1+ vector.  Transfection—PC Cl3 cells were plated at 6 × 105 cells per 60-mm diameter tissue culture dish 48 h before transfection. Transfections were performed by calcium phosphate coprecipitation. To study the effect of TSH and TGF-β, transfected cells were cultured in starvation medium (72 h) and treated with TSH or TSH plus TGF-β. After 24 h, cells were collected for a LUC and Renilla activity assay using the Dual-Luciferase reporter assay system (Promega). In cotransfection experiments, the amount of DNA was normalized using the corresponding insertless expression vector as the carrier.  GST Pull-down Analysis—For GST pull-downs, GST fusion constructs of Smad3 or Pax8 were expressed in Escherichia coli and purified using glutathione-Sepharose 4B beads (Amersham Biosciences). Equal amounts of GST or GST-Smad3 bound to glutathione-Sepharose beads were incubated with in vitro transcribed and translated (TnT translation kit, Promega) full-length Pax8 or ΔPax8 labeled with [35S]methionine on ice for 2 h. Beads were washed five times in wash buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, 150 mm NaCl, 1 mm EDTA, 0.1% Triton X-100, 10% glycerol, and protease inhibitors), and specifically bound proteins were detected by SDS-PAGE and autoradiography. In GST pull-down assays with nuclear cell extracts, PC Cl3 cell extracts were incubated with GST or GST fusion proteins (GST-Smad3 and GST-Pax8) bound to glutathione-Sepharose beads on ice for 2 h. Beads were washed in wash buffer, and specifically bound proteins were detected by Western blot analysis. Specific immunodetection was carried out by incubation with anti-Pax8 or anti-Smad3 antibodies (Santa Cruz Biotechnology).  Band Shift Assay—A band shift probe corresponding to an oligonucleotide of Pax8-binding sites in rNIS promoter (site PB within the NUE) (9) was labeled with 32P by polynucleotide kinase. Nuclear extracts from PC Cl3 cells (7 μg), recombinant Pax8 (TnT-Pax8), or bacterially expressed GST and GST-Smad3 proteins were incubated with the labeled probe. Binding reactions were performed in a buffer containing 40 mm Hepes, pH 7.9, 75 mm KCl, 0.2 mm EDTA, 0.5 mm dithiothreitol, 150 ng/μl poly(dI-dC), and 5% Ficoll at room temperature for 30 min. When required, samples were supplemented with an anti-Pax8 antibody from Santa Cruz Biotechnology (F-19) or provided by Dr. R. Di Lauro (9). Samples were electrophoresed on a 5% polyacrylamide gel in 0.5× Tris borate-EDTA. For competition, an excess of cold oligonucleotide was added to the reaction mixture. 
