!~ABS~! Cellular ATP depletion in diverse cell types results in the net conversion of monomeric G-actin to polymeric F-actin and is an important aspect of cellular injury in tissue ischemia. We propose that this conversion results from altering the ratio of ATP-G-actin and ADP-G-actin, causing a net decrease in the concentration of thymosinactin complexes as a consequence of the differential affinity of thymosin β4 for ATP- and ADP-G-actin. To test this hypothesis we examined the effect of ATP depletion induced by antimycin A and substrate depletion on actin polymerization, the nucleotide state of the monomer pool, and the association of actin monomers with thymosin and profilin in the kidney epithelial cell line LLC-PK1. ATP depletion for 30 min increased F-actin content to 145% of the levels under physiological conditions, accompanied by a corresponding decrease in G-actin content. Cytochalasin D treatment did not reduce F-actin formation during ATP depletion, indicating that it was predominantly not because of barbed end monomer addition. ATP-G-actin levels decreased rapidly during depletion, but there was no change in the concentration of ADP-G-actin monomers. The decrease in ATP-G-actin levels could be accounted for by dissociation of the thymosin-G-actin binary complex, resulting in a rise in the concentration of free thymosin β4 from 4 to 11 μm. Increased detection of profilin-actin complexes during depletion indicated that profilin may participate in catalyzing nucleotide exchange during depletion. This mechanism provides a biochemical basis for the accumulation of F-actin aggregates in ischemic cells. 
!~RES~! ATP Depletion Results in Net Conversion of G- to F-Actin—We used ATP depletion in a clonal line of LLC-PK1 cells as a model of ischemic injury (CITATION). Cells were treated with the mitochondrial cytochrome bc1 inhibitor antimycin A (0.1 μm) and with substrate-depleted medium to eliminate both oxidative phosphorylation and glycolysis as sources of ATP. The intracellular ATP concentration fell rapidly in response to this treatment (Fig. 2A), from control levels of 1.7 to 0.03 mm after 15 min of depletion. The concentration of ADP rose to a peak of 0.55 mm at 5 min of depletion, decreasing to 0.2 mm at 30 min. The ratio of ATP:(ATP+ADP) fell from 93 to 25% by 15 min (Fig. 2A) and decreased further to 15% by 30 min of ATP depletion.  [[FIGURE]]  To quantitatively assess the effect of depleting intracellular ATP on the actin cytoskeleton, we measured the fraction of filamentous and monomeric actin as a function of the duration of ATP depletion (Fig. 2B). Total cellular F-actin was determined by quantifying the binding of fluorescent phalloidin (a fungal alkaloid that specifically binds filamentous but not monomeric actin) to fixed, permeabilized cells, and G-actin was quantified based on its ability to inhibit the hydrolytic activity of DNase I. With ATP depletion times of up to 30 min there was a roughly linear increase in the filamentous fraction of actin, to a maximum level 45% higher than that observed under physiological conditions (Fig. 2B). Independent measurements documented a decrease in the monomeric fraction of actin, to 50% below the level under physiological conditions, consistent with the increase in F-actin. The total intracellular actin concentration measured by immunoblotting was 27 μm, whereas the base-line G-actin concentration was 16 μm (Table I). Therefore, the alterations observed in G- and F-actin levels represent a decrease in monomeric actin from 16 to 8 μm, with a corresponding increase in F-actin from ∼11 to 19 μm; values that are consistent within the error in the data. Continued ATP depletion beyond 30 min did not result in further significant increases in the F-actin content, which remained at 30–40% above base line after 60 min of ATP depletion. We also measured the extent of F-actin incorporation in a Triton X-100-insoluble fraction using high speed centrifugation (48,000 × g) to pellet large filaments or filaments cross-linked into the bulk cytoskeleton (Fig. 2C). The additional F-actin formed after 30 and 60 min of depletion was incorporated into the Triton-insoluble material that was recovered in the high speed pellet. No significant additional incorporation into small oligomeric filaments (437,000 × g) was observed (data not shown). Actin polymerization triggered by ATP depletion was not the result of additional synthesis of actin monomers, as cycloheximide (10 μg/ml) treatment had no effect on F-actin levels during depletion or recovery (data not shown). As previously shown in our studies and by other investigators (CITATION), ATP-depleted cells lost microvillar actin bundles and stress fibers and, instead, accumulated phalloidin-staining aggregates throughout the cytoplasm, particularly in the perinuclear area (not shown).  [[TABLE]]  To further explore the nature of the process leading to F-actin formation in ATP-depleted cells, we incubated cells with the fungal toxin cytochalasin D (0.1 μm) to inhibit actin filament elongation by monomer addition onto filament barbed ends (Fig. 2D) (CITATION). Surprisingly, cytochalasin D had little effect on F-actin accumulation during ATP depletion and, in fact, resulted in significantly increased F-actin accumulation after 15 min of ATP depletion (p < 0.01).  We next sought to determine the energy level below which actin polymerization was initiated. To accomplish this we added back a range of glucose concentrations to the medium during 30 min of antimycin A treatment (Fig. 3). In the presence of antimycin A the intracellular ATP:ADP ratio varied linearly as a function of the glucose concentration over a range of glucose concentrations from 0 to 60 mg/liter. At glucose concentrations greater than 40 mg/ml, in which the ATP:ADP ratio was greater than 0.31, there was no effect on F-actin levels, but at lower glucose concentrations, in which the ATP: ADP ratio fell below 0.3 (intracellular ATP and ADP concentrations of 22 μm and 72 μm, respectively), a progressive increase in F-actin content was observed. The F-actin content was a linear function of the decrease in the ATP:ADP ratio below 0.3 as the glucose concentration was decreased from 40 to 1 mg/liter (ATP concentrations are 22–15 μm, with ADP concentrations remaining roughly constant in the range of 65–75 μm).  [[FIGURE]]  Effect of ATP Depletion on the Nucleotide Bound to the Monomer Pool—To determine the effect of ATP depletion on the nucleotide state of G-actin, we isolated unpolymerized G-actin monomers by binding them to DNase I immobilized on beads and measured the fraction of ATP and ADP associated with the monomers (Fig. 4). We included latrunculin B and phalloidin in the isolation buffer to inhibit nucleotide exchange (CITATION) and polymerization or depolymerization during the isolation procedure. As previously noted, the cellular concentration of G-actin declined with ATP depletion, from 16 to 5 μm in control cells after 15 min of ATP depletion (Fig. 4). There was a corresponding decrease in the concentration of ATP G-actin. However, the concentration of ADP G-actin remained essentially constant at approximately 0.5 μm throughout the time course.  [[FIGURE]]  Role of Monomer-binding Proteins—To evaluate the potential importance of different classes of actin monomer-binding proteins, we measured their concentrations in the LLC-PK1 cells used for these experiments (Table I). Thymosin β4 was present at high concentrations (26 ± 8.8 μm), approaching the concentration of G-actin in the cells under normal growth conditions (31 ± 7.2 μm). The concentration of profilin was much lower (2.0 ± 0.4 μm). As a comparison we measured the levels of these proteins as a fraction of the total soluble protein in LLC-PK1 cells and in cortical tissue (primarily proximal tubule epithelial cells) isolated from rat kidney. Levels in isolated tubules were very similar to those found in the LLC-PK1 cells (Table I), confirming the physiological significance of our results for ischemic injury in the kidney.  To quantitatively analyze the effect of ATP depletion on G-actin association with sequestering proteins, we used filters with a molecular weight cutoff of 10,000 to separate the free fraction of thymosin β4 from the fraction associated with G-actin (Fig. 5A). In cells under normal growth conditions the concentration of free thymosin β4 was ∼4 μm, rising to 11 μm after 15 min of ATP depletion (Fig. 5B). This corresponds to a release of all thymosin-bound actin monomers in the first 15 min of ATP depletion. We next compared the relative abundance of thymosin-actin complexes by native gel electrophoresis, using immunoblotting with anti-actin antibodies to confirm the identity of the complexes observed (Fig. 5C). On native gels, thymosin-actin complexes migrate slightly ahead of free actin monomers, probably because thymosin binding restricts the repertoire of conformations available to actin (Fig. 5C, arrow) (CITATION, CITATION). On native gels of control cell extracts G-actin migrated predominantly in the fast migrating, thymosin-bound fraction (Fig. 5C, lane 1, arrow), whereas in extracts from cells subjected to 15 min of ATP depletion less G-actin was detected, and the electrophoretic mobility profile was characteristic of free actin monomers (Fig. 5C, lane 2).  [[FIGURE]]  We also used native gel electrophoresis (CITATION) to analyze the extent of actin monomer association with profilin (Fig. 5D). Immunoblotting showed increased levels of profilin co-migrating with actin monomer in extracts from cells depleted for 15 min (compare Fig. 5D, lanes 4 and 5) that was reversed by the addition of an ATP regenerating system to the extract (lane 6). 
!~MM~! Cell Culture—A clonal line of LLC-PK1 cells was grown to confluence in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium with 10% fetal bovine serum containing penicillin/streptomycin, passaged once per week with 0.5% trypsin/EDTA, and seeded at a 1:8 dilution. Cultures typically reached confluence 2 or 3 days after seeding, and experiments were performed 48 h after confluence in 60- or 100-mm plates. Chemicals and culture media were purchased from Sigma unless otherwise noted.  ATP Depletion—Cells were ATP-depleted by incubating in depleted media (Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium without glucose, pyruvate, or amino acids) containing 0.1 μm antimycin A for up to 30 min as previously described (CITATION). For experiments measuring the effect of variable cellular levels of ATP on actin polymerization, cells were depleted in depletion media containing 0–1000 mg/liter glucose. In some experiments, cells were incubated in 0.1 μm cytochalasin D for 30 min before depletion and during cellular ATP depletion.  Cellular G-actin Isolation in Triton X-100-soluble Protein Extracts— Cells were extracted with 200 μl of Triton extraction buffer (0.1% Triton X-100 in PHEM (60 mm 1,4-piperazinediethanesulfonic acid, 25 mm HEPES, 10 mm EGTA, and 2 mm MgSO4) with CLAP (10 μg/ml each chymostatin, leupeptin, aprotinin, and pepstatin), and 0.5 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride) with 20 μm latrunculin A (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR), and 0.1 mg/ml phalloidin.  Two 100-μl aliquots per plate of supernatant were spun through PHEM buffer-equilibrated P-6 spin columns (Bio-Rad) to remove free nucleotides at 2000 × g for 5 min at 4 °C. To isolate actin with its bound nucleotide, we used immobilized DNase I (CITATION).  Adenine Nucleotide Measurements—Nucleotide content was normalized to the protein present in each sample. Cellular ATP and ADP were determined by high performance liquid chromatography as previously described (CITATION).  Cellular F-actin Measurement—F-actin content was measured by an adaptation of the method of Cano et al. (CITATION) for cells grown in a 96-well plate. Following treatment, cells were aspirated, fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde in phosphate-buffered saline for 30 min at room temperature, and stained for 1 h with a solution containing 2.3 μm TRITC-phalloidin, 14.3 μm 4′,6′-diamidino-2-phenylindole, 0.5% Triton X-100 in PHEM buffer. Fluorescence was measured on a CytoFluor II fluorescent plate reader (PerSeptive Biosystems; Framingham, MA) at 530 × 620 nm for actin phalloidin staining and 360 × 460 nm for nuclear 4′,6′-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining.  Total and Free Cellular Thymosin β4 Measurement—Cells were extracted with Triton extraction buffer as described above. Free and actin-bound Tβ4 were separated by centrifuging extracts through a Microcon spin filter (10-kDa molecular mass) (Amicon, Beverly, MA) for 60 s at 14,000 × g. Free thymosin was collected in the filtrate, and thymosin bound to G-actin remained in the retentate. Total Tβ4 was isolated based on its stability against heat denaturation. Tβ4 was measured by densitometry methods against platelet Tβ4 standards.  Detection of Tβ4 and Profilin by Immunoblotting—Native or denaturing gels were incubated in 0.4% glutaraldehyde in phosphate-buffered saline (15 min for denaturing gels or 5 min for native gels) prior to transfer to polyvinylidene difluoride membranes (Millipore, Bedford, MA). Rabbit anti-Tβ4 IgG (1:200 in blocking solution) (generously provided by Dr. Vivian Nachmias, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA) or rabbit anti-human platelet profilin (gift of Don Kaiser and Tom Pollard, Salk Institute, La Jolla, CA) was used for immunodetection.  Detection of Tβ4-Actin and Profilin-Actin Complexes by Native Gel Electrophoresis—Triton extracts were subjected to native gel electrophoresis according to the method of Safer (CITATION). Tβ4-actin complexes were detected by the shift in migration of actin detected on immunoblots probed with the anti-actin monoclonal antibody JLA20 (Sigma). Profilin-actin complexes were detected by immunoblotting for actin (JLA20) and profilin (see under “Detection of Tβ4 and Profilin by Immunoblotting”).  Rat Renal Proximal Tubule Isolation Procedure—Rat renal proximal tubules were isolated using an adaptation of the method of Weinberg (CITATION). Kidney cortex was sliced in 100-μm sections, incubated in a 5% CO2, 95% O2 gassed Krebs-Ringer bicarbonate buffer with collagenase at 37 °C for 30 min, and passed through a wire mesh strainer. The tubules were separated from glomeruli by 48% Percoll gradient.  Intracellular Protein Concentrations—Cell volume was estimated by subtracting the dilution ratio of mannitol from tritiated water after a 30-min incubation with 0.2 μCi/ml [14C]mannitol and 0.5 μCi/ml [3H]-labeled water (ICN Biomedicals, Irvine CA). Intracellular soluble protein concentration (μg of soluble protein/μl of intracellular volume) was calculated by dividing the supernatant protein per plate by the intracellular volume per plate. 
