!~ABS~! The position-dependent specification of the hair and non-hair cell types in the Arabidopsis root epidermis provides a simple model for the study of cell fate determination in plants. Several putative transcriptional regulators are known to influence this cell fate decision. Indirect evidence from studies with the maize R gene has been used to suggest that a bHLH transcription factor also participates in this process. We show that two Arabidopsis genes encoding bHLH proteins, GLABRA3 (GL3) and ENHANCER OF GLABRA3 (EGL3), act in a partially redundant manner to specify root epidermal cell fates. Plants homozygous for mutations in both genes fail to specify the non-hair cell type, whereas plants overexpressing either gene produce ectopic non-hair cells. We also find that these genes are required for appropriate transcription of the non-hair specification gene GL2 and the hair cell specification gene CPC, showing that GL3 and EGL3 influence both epidermal cell fates. Furthermore, we show that these bHLH proteins require a functional WER MYB protein for their action, and they physically interact with WER and CPC in the yeast two-hybrid assay. These results suggest a model in which GL3 and EGL3 act together with WER in the N cell position to promote the non-hair cell fate, whereas they interact with the incomplete MYB protein CPC in the H position, which blocks the non-hair pathway and leads to the hair cell fate.
!~RES~! Among the 133 predicted Arabidopsis proteins that possess bHLH-like motifs (CITATION), the GL3 and EGL3 proteins are members of a subfamily with the greatest similarity to the maize R protein. The GL3 bHLH protein (At5g41315) contains 637 amino acids and displays 33% identity with maize R (CITATION), whereas the EGL3 gene (At1g63650) encodes a predicted protein containing 596 amino acids that is 74% identical to GL3 (CITATION). Because the maize R is able to influence root epidermis development when expressed in Arabidopsis (CITATION), the GL3 and EGL3 genes were candidates to represent Arabidopsis bHLH proteins that participate in root epidermal cell specification. To determine whether either of these R-like bHLH genes from Arabidopsis are normally expressed in the developing root, we conducted RT-PCR analyses using GL3- and EGL3-specific primers on RNA isolated from roots and other organs. GL3 and EGL3 amplified fragments were detected from each RNA sample (Fig. 1), indicating that each bHLH gene is expressed in all of these plant organs. This is consistent with the recent finding that GL3 and EGL3 participate in multiple pathways in the above-ground organs (CITATION). Furthermore, the substantial amplification of GL3 and EGL3 from root RNA samples (Fig. 1) suggests that these genes are expressed in developing Arabidopsis seedling roots.   [[FIGURE]] To examine the possible role of GL3 and EGL3 in root epidermis development, we tested their effect when expressed under the control of the CaMV35S promoter. Plants bearing either the 35S::GL3 or 35S::EGL3 transgene (CITATION; CITATION) produced roots with only a small number of root hairs (Fig. 2), owing to the misspecification of cells in the H position to adopt a non-hair cell fate (Table 1). This result is similar to the effect of the 35S::R construct in Arabidopsis (CITATION), and it suggests that expression of a high level of GL3 or EGL3 bHLH protein throughout the epidermis can overcome the effects of the hair cell specification pathway in the H position.   [[FIGURE]]    Effect of the 35S::GL3 and 35S::EGL3 transgenes on cell type pattern in the root epidermis *  Although the general phenotypic effect of the 35S::GL3 and 35S::EGL3 transgenes is similar, we found that the effect of the 35S::GL3 is not as strong as the 35S::EGL3 (Fig. 2, Table 1). In particular, the 35S::GL3 line produces more hair cells in the lower region (near the apex) of the 4-day-old root than in the upper region (near the root-hypocotyl junction) (Fig. 2; Table 1). These differences in the 35S::GL3 and 35S::EGL3 effects may be due to different transgene expression levels or to differences in the developmental timing or interactions of the two bHLH genes. To further explore the effect of the 35S::GL3 and 35S::EGL3 transgenes in relation to the previously characterized 35S::R, we introduced the 35S::GL3 and 35S::EGL3 into the ttg-1 mutant. The ttg-1 root specifies hair cells in nearly every root epidermal cell, and this defect can be overcome by the 35S::R transgene (CITATION). We found that the 35S::GL3 ttg-1 and 35S::EGL3 ttg-1 roots exhibited a significant reduction in hair cell production, when compared with the ttg mutant (Fig. 2; Table 1). This indicates that the overexpression of either gene can restore non-hair cell production in the ttg-1 mutant, which is similar to the effect of 35S::R on ttg (CITATION). Interestingly, each transgene exhibited a difference in their effect on the upper and lower region of the root, with the 35S::EGL3 having its greatest impact on the lower region and the 35S::GL3 on the upper region, which is similar to their effects in the wild-type background. Because neither of the transgenes was able to induce non-hair cell specification in the ttg-1 mutant to the same extent as they do in the wild-type background (Table 1), it is likely that TTG is required for the full effect of the 35S::GL3 and 35S::EGL3. To determine whether this partial TTG dependency can be diminished by expressing both GL3 and EGL3 in the ttg mutant, we constructed a 35S::GL3 35S::EGL3 ttg-1 line. These roots had an enhanced non-hair cell phenotype when compared with either single transgene (Table 1), suggesting that increased expression of these bHLH genes can overcome the effect of the ttg-1. Furthermore, the lack of a synergistic effect implies that the GL3 and EGL3 provide largely similar functions, rather than interdependent functions. To directly assess the involvement of the GL3 and EGL3 genes in root epidermis development, we analyzed plants bearing homozygous mutations in one or both of these genes. We employed gl3 mutant lines (gl3-1 and gl3-2) and egl3 mutant lines (egl3-1 and egl3-2) with mutations that cause premature stop codons and probably represent null alleles (CITATION; CITATION). We found that each of the single mutant lines produced a normal number and pattern of epidermal cell types in the lower region of the root, but they show a slight (egl3-1 and egl3-2) or moderate (gl3-1 and gl3-2) increase in hair cell production in the upper region of the root, owing to the misspecification of hair cells in the N (ectopic) position (Fig. 3; Table 2). Thus, GL3 and EGL3 are necessary to specify fully the non-hair cell fate and generate the proper epidermal pattern in the upper region, but not the lower region, of the root.   [[FIGURE]]    Effect of the gl3 and egl3 mutants on cell type pattern in the root epidermis *  To test the possibility of partial functional redundancy between the GL3 and EGL3 genes, we generated and analyzed all four possible gl3 egl3 double mutants using the gl3-1, gl3-2, egl3-1 and egl3-2 lines. Each double mutant combination produced an extremely hairy root (Fig. 3) because of a dramatic reduction in the frequency of the non-hair cell type throughout the root (Table 2; data not shown). These findings show that GL3 and EGL3 act in a largely redundant manner to specify the non-hair cell fate. The outgrowth of a root hair from an epidermal cell represents a relatively late event in epidermal cell differentiation. At earlier stages, immature epidermal cells in the H and N positions may be distinguished from one another by their differential vacuolation rate and cytoplasmic density, and these characteristics are controlled by WER and TTG but not GL2 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine whether the altered root hair production in the gl3 egl3 mutant and the 35S lines were associated with cell fate abnormalities at an early developmental stage, we examined vacuole formation and cytoplasmic density in developing epidermal cells from transverse sections taken from the meristematic region of the root. In contrast to the wild type, which displayed a greater vacuolation rate and reduced cytoplasmic density in the N cell position relative to the H cell position, all epidermal cells in the gl3 egl3 exhibit characteristics of developing hair cells, whereas all epidermal cells in 35S::EGL3 exhibit characteristics of developing non-hair cells (Fig. 4).   [[FIGURE]] Another early characteristic of epidermal cell specification is differential cell division rate, whereby the developing hair cells achieve a greater rate of division than developing non-hair cells in the meristematic zone (CITATION). We assessed the relative cell division rate in the mutant and overexpression lines by comparing cell number in the H and N positions. We discovered a significant reduction in the relative division rate in the gl3 egl3, the 35S::GL3 and the 35S::EGL3 lines when compared with their respective wild-type lines, but no significant difference was detected in the single mutant lines (Table 3). The reduction was similar to the previously documented effect of the wer-1 and ttg-1 mutations on relative cell division rate (CITATION; CITATION) (Table 3). Together, these results show that alterations in GL3 and EGL3 gene function affect cell specification characteristics at an early stage in root epidermis development, similar to the stage affected by WER and TTG.    Relative cell division rate in the root epidermis of GL3 and EGL3 mutants and overexpression lines  To better define the role of GL3 and EGL3 in the specification pathway, we examined the effect of the mutants and transgenes on expression of the GL2::GUS reporter construct. The GL2 gene is required for non-hair cell specification and, accordingly, the GL2::GUS reporter is preferentially expressed in the N cell position of the developing root epidermis (CITATION). In the gl3-1 mutant, GL2::GUS expression is reduced, but the appropriate pattern of GUS activity remains (Fig. 5). By contrast, the egl3-1 mutant has no detectable effect on GL2::GUS reporter expression (Fig. 5). A strong reduction in GL2::GUS expression is present in the gl3-1 egl3-1 double mutant, although extended incubation time shows that the proper pattern persists (Fig. 5). This indicates that GL3 and EGL3 act redundantly to positively regulate the level, but not the position-dependent pattern, of GL2 transcription.   [[FIGURE]] In a corresponding fashion, the 35S::EGL3 transgene caused GL2::GUS expression to expand throughout the developing epidermis and the surrounding lateral root cap (Fig. 5; data not shown). The 35S::GL3 caused a weaker effect on GL2::GUS expression (Fig. 5), consistent with its weaker effect on cell fate specification (Table 1). Given these results, we wished to investigate the possibility that GL3 and EGL3 promote the non-hair fate by acting through GL2. Therefore, we generated and analyzed 35S::GL3 gl2-1 and 35S::EGL3 gl2-1 plants. Each of these lines possessed a `hairy' root phenotype that is essentially the same as the gl2-1 mutant (Table 1). This suggests that a functional GL2 gene is required for the 35S overexpression constructs to induce non-hair epidermal cells, and therefore, is consistent with the notion that the GL3/EGL3 genes act through GL2. The CPC gene is expressed in the N cell position, and it is required for hair cell specification through a lateral inhibition mechanism (CITATION; CITATION). To determine whether CPC is regulated by GL3 and EGL3, we introduced the CPC::GUS reporter construct into the various mutant and transgene backgrounds. Like the GL2::GUS expression, the CPC::GUS expression was reduced in the gl3-1 mutant, unchanged in the egl3-1 mutant, and virtually eliminated in the gl3-1 egl3-1 double mutant (Fig. 6; data not shown). Furthermore, the CPC::GUS reporter was expressed throughout the epidermis in the 35S::EGL3, and to a weaker extent in the 35S::GL3 (Fig. 6). Thus, the GL3 and EGL3 genes act in a redundant manner to promote expression of both the non-hair-cell-specification gene GL2 and the hair-cell-specification gene CPC in the N cell position.   [[FIGURE]] Like GL3 and EGL3, WER is a positive regulator of GL2 and CPC (CITATION). To determine whether WER is required for GL3 or EGL3 function, we constructed and examined plants bearing the genotype 35S::GL3 wer-1 or 35S::EGL3 wer-1. Roots from each of these lines produced abundant root hair cells, similar to the wer-1 mutant (Table 1). Thus, GL3 or EGL3 action requires a functional WER gene, which implies that WER is either acting downstream or at the same step as GL3/EGL3 in the non-hair specification pathway. In prior studies, the maize R bHLH protein has been found to interact with both the WER (CITATION) and with the CPC (CITATION) MYB proteins. To examine the possibility that the GL3 or EGL3 proteins physically associate with WER or CPC, we employed the yeast two-hybrid assay (CITATION). First, we found that fusions of the GAL4 DNA binding domain (BD) to either the GL3 or EGL3 protein alone were sufficient to induce a significant level of lacZ reporter expression (Table 4). This `one-hybrid' assay shows that the GL3 and EGL3 proteins possess transcriptional activation domains that are functional in yeast.    Interaction between the GL3 or EGL3 proteins and the WER or CPC proteins in the yeast two-hybrid assay  Next, we discovered that yeast cells co-expressing either the BD-GL3 or BD-EGL3 fusions together with the AD-WER fusion exhibited a higher level of lacZ reporter expression than either single fusion (Table 4). This indicates that the WER protein can physically interact with either the GL3 or EGL3 proteins in yeast cells and is consistent with the possibility that they interact in Arabidopsis. We also discovered that GL3 and EGL3 can each associate with the CPC protein in the yeast two-hybrid assay. Yeast cells expressing an AD-CPC fusion together with the BD-GL3 or the BD-EGL3 produce an increased level of lacZ reporter expression (Table 4). This implies that CPC may also interact with GL3 or EGL3 in Arabidopsis, which suggests a possible competition model for the opposite action of WER and CPC in root epidermis cell specification.
!~MM~! The isolation of the mutant alleles used in this study has been described: cpc-1 (CITATION), egl3-1 (CITATION), egl3-2 (CITATION), gl2-1 (CITATION), gl3-1 (CITATION), gl3-2 (CITATION) and wer-1 (CITATION), and these are likely to represent loss-of-function alleles. The GL2::GUS, CPC::GUS, 35S::EGL3 and 35S::GL3 constructs and transgenic lines have been previously described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Lines homozygous for multiple mutations and/or transgenes were constructed by crossing single mutant or transgenic plants, examining the F2 progeny for putative double mutant/transgene phenotypes, and confirming the desired genotype in subsequent generations by backcrossing to single mutants, examining reporter gene expression, and/or PCR-based tests. Arabidopsis seeds were surface sterilized and grown on agarose-solidified nutrient medium in vertically oriented petri plates as previously described (CITATION). Root hair cell production and cell type pattern analysis were determined from Toluidine Blue-stained roots as previously described (CITATION) from at least 24 four-day-old seedling roots for each strain. The upper region of the root was defined as the segment containing 10 epidermal cells whose upper boundary is four cells below the hairy collet region. The lower region of the root is a larger zone representing approximately the lower half of a four-dayold root and occupied by epidermal cells that differentiate during days 3-4. An epidermal cell was scored as a root-hair cell if any protrusion was visible, regardless of its length. Plastic transverse sections were obtained from four- to five-day-old roots embedded in JB-4 resin and stained with 0.05% Toluidine Blue O, as previously described (CITATION). The relative cell division rate in the H and N cell positions of the epidermis was determined by counting the number of cells in clones derived from rare longitudinal divisions, using a method previously described (CITATION), and by counting the number of cells in adjacent N and H cell files. The histochemical analysis of plants containing the GUS reporter constructs was performed essentially as described (CITATION). For RT-PCR assays, tissue of wild-type (Columbia) plants was ground in liquid nitrogen and total RNA was extracted as described (CITATION). Tissue from roots and hypocotyl/cotyledons was obtained from four-day-old seedling grown on nutrient plates as described above. All other tissues were obtained from soil grown plants. RT-PCR was performed using the Superscript One-Step RTPCR Kit (Invitrogen) according to manufacturer instructions. Total RNA template (500 ng) was used for each reaction and a total of 40 PCR cycles was performed. UBQ10 gene-specific primers (CITATION) were used in control reactions. The length of the gene-specific products obtained for GL3, EGL3 and UBQ was 581 bp, 516 bp and 483 bp, respectively. Yeast two-hybrid assays were performed essentially as described (CITATION). The entire coding regions of the GL3 or EGL3 cDNA were joined as C-terminal fusion to the yeast GAL4 DNA-binding domain in pGBT9 to generate the in-frame protein fusions BD-GL3 and BD-EGL3. The GAL4 transcriptional activation domain in pGAD424 was fused to the full-length WER-coding region to generate AD-WER (CITATION) and it was fused to the full-length CPC coding region to generate AD-CPC. After transformation into yeast strain HF7c, the β-galactosidase assays were performed on at least six individual transformants for each combination of constructs.
