!~ABS~! The PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome ten) tumor suppressor gene affects multiple cellular processes including cell growth, proliferation, and cell migration by antagonizing phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K). However, mechanisms by which PTEN expression is regulated have not been studied extensively. Similar to PTEN, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) affects a wide spectrum of diseases including inflammatory processes and cancer by acting as a mediator of apoptosis, inflammation, and immunity. In this study, we show that treatment of cancer cell lines with TNF-α decreases PTEN expression. In addition, overexpression of TNF-α downstream signaling targets, nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB)-inducing kinase (NIK) and p65 nuclear factor NF-κB, lowers PTEN expression, suggesting that TNF-α-induced down-regulation of PTEN is mediated through a TNF-α/NIK/NF-κB pathway. Down-regulation of PTEN by NIK/NF-κB results in activation of the PI3K/Akt pathway and augmentation of TNF-α-induced PI3K/Akt stimulation. Importantly, we demonstrate that this effect is associated with a lack of an inhibitor of κB (IκB)-α autoregulatory loop. Moreover, these findings suggest the interaction between PI3K/Akt and NF-κB via transcriptional regulation of PTEN and offer one possible explanation for increased tumorigenesis in systems in which NF-κB is chronically activated. In such a tumor system, these findings suggest a positive feedback loop whereby Akt activation of NF-κB further stimulates Akt via down-regulation of the PI3K inhibitor PTEN. 
!~RES~! TNF-α Treatment Decreases PTEN Expression—To examine the effect of TNF-α on PTEN expression, we used the human colon cancer cell line HT29, a cell line without mutation in the endogenous PTEN gene sequence.2 HT29 is used extensively as a model of intestinal epithelial cell proliferation/differentiation and colorectal cancer (CITATION). Cells growing in serum-containing medium were treated with increasing concentrations of TNF-α (0.01–1.0 nm) for 24 h and extracted for protein expression. Western blotting demonstrated a TNF-α-mediated dose-dependent decrease in PTEN (Fig. 1A). Concomitant with PTEN decrease, a similar reduction in IκB-α was also observed, demonstrating TNF-α-induced IκB-α degradation. To examine whether the reduction of PTEN protein was linked to a modification in gene expression, HT29 cells were treated with 1 nm TNF-α over a time course, and total cellular mRNA was extracted for analysis of PTEN expression by real time RT-PCR. As shown in Fig. 1B, TNF-α caused a significant reduction in PTEN mRNA, which was apparent after 9 h of treatment and continued over 24 h. In addition, we constructed a reporter plasmid containing 1,365 bp of the human PTEN promoter (NCBI accession no. NM_000314) inserted upstream of the luciferase reporter gene. This plasmid was transfected into HT29 cells, and luciferase assay was performed 24 h after 1 nm TNF-α treatment; luciferase activity was reduced in TNF-α-treated cells as compared with untreated cells (Fig. 1C). Together, these data indicate that TNF-α down-regulates PTEN expression at the level of gene transcription.   [[FIGURE]]  To assess whether the TNF-α effect on PTEN is limited to certain cell types, we examined other human-derived cell lines. Similar to results obtained in HT29 cells, decreased PTEN protein expression was noted in the colon cancer cell line SW480 and in the cervical cancer cell line SiHa (Fig. 1D). However, a reduction in PTEN expression was not observed in the human embryonic kidney cell line HEK293, suggesting that the TNF-α-mediated reduction in PTEN expression is cell line-dependent.  NF-κB Activation Is Sustained in HT29 Cells Treated with TNF-α—Because the NF-κB pathway is an important target of TNF-α signaling, we analyzed key elements of this pathway after TNF-α treatment in HT29 cells. For this purpose, cells were treated with a single dose of TNF-α (1 nm) and analyzed over a 72-h time course. As expected from the above results, PTEN protein expression was decreased 24, 48, and 72 h after TNF-α treatment (Fig. 2A). Concomitant with PTEN reduction, this treatment produced a sustained reduction in IκB-α throughout the 72-h time course.  [[FIGURE]]  To confirm that NF-κB activation accompanied the TNF-α-induced reduction of IκB-α, nuclear protein was extracted from treated and untreated HT29 cells and analyzed by ELISA-based DNA binding activity of NF-κB using a consensus double-stranded oligonucleotide (CITATION). Analysis for p50 NF-κB showed maximal p50 binding activity at 8 h of TNF-α treatment (Fig. 2B), whereas maximal activity for p65 NF-κB was observed within 1 h of TNF-α treatment (Fig. 2C). The specificity of DNA binding was confirmed by competition assays, where free floating excess oligonucleotide blocked both p50 and p65 NF-κB binding activities. These data corroborate the finding that TNF-α treatment increases NF-κB binding activity and correlates with reduction in IκB-α expression. In addition, these data show that NF-κB activity is sustained without signs of inhibition as might be expected because of an IκB autoregulatory inhibition.  NIK and Activation of p65 NF-κB Decrease PTEN Expression—TNF-α binding to TNFR1 activates NF-κB through recruitment of the TRAF2 adaptor protein and the serine/threonine kinase NIK (CITATION). Subsequently, NIK phosphorylates IκB kinase, which targets IκB-α for ubiquitination and proteasome-mediated degradation, thus allowing NF-κB to translocate into the cell nucleus (CITATION, CITATION). To determine whether TNF-α-induced PTEN reduction is mediated through NIK, an adenovirus containing the NIK gene was used to infect HT29 cells. Consistent with the effect observed previously by TNF-α treatment, NIK overexpression decreased PTEN expression as well as the level of IκB-α, suggesting NF-κB activation (Fig. 3A). Conversely, we analyzed the effect of the expression of the superrepressor of IκB-α after cell infection with the recombinant adenovirus Ad5IκB-AA. The superrepressor of IκB-α does not undergo degradation upon TNF-α stimulation (CITATION), hence it sequesters NF-κB in the cytoplasm. We found that the infection of IκB-α superrepressor actually increased PTEN expression and the endogenous level of IκB-α (Fig. 3B). Next, we examined whether NF-κB can directly suppress PTEN expression by overexpressing the p65 subunit of NF-κB in HT29 cells. Overexpression of p65 protein decreased PTEN expression and, in combination with TNF-α treatment, an additive suppression was observed (Fig. 3C).  [[FIGURE]]  To provide additional evidence that the TNF-α-induced PTEN decrease is functionally dependent on the activation of the NF-κB pathway, HT29 cells were treated with 1 nm TNF-α together with SN50, a cell-permeable peptide that binds to uncomplexed NF-κB and prevents nuclear translocation of NF-κB (CITATION). As shown in Fig. 3D, SN50 peptide prevented the decrease in PTEN expression in TNF-α-treated cells, without affecting the decrease in IκB-α, confirming that this inhibitor acts downstream of IκB on the translocation of NF-κB. Moreover, the mutant inactive peptide SN50M was unable to prevent the TNF-α-induced PTEN decrease. Together, these data indicate that TNF-α down-regulates PTEN expression by activating the NIK/IκB kinase/IκB/NF-κB pathway.  TNF-α-induced Down-regulation of PTEN Is Not Dependent on PI3K—TNF-α activates the PI3K pathway through TNFR/insulin receptor substrate 1-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of the p85 regulatory subunit of PI3K (CITATION). It was reported previously that TNF-α activation of NF-κB requires both NIK and PI3K/Akt (CITATION); however, in different cell types, TNF-α activation of NF-κB is not dependent on PI3K/Akt, whereas platelet-derived growth factor-mediated activation of NF-κB involves PI3K/Akt activation of IκB kinase (CITATION). In the case of HT29 cells infected with the NIK-encoding adenovirus, we found a decrease in the total amount of Akt protein but a strong activation of this kinase assessed by its phosphorylation at residue Ser-473 (Fig. 3A). Confirming the functional activation of Akt, increased phosphorylation of a downstream substrate of Akt, GSK-3β (CITATION), was also observed in NIK-overexpressing cells (Fig. 3A). These results suggest that Akt is activated directly by TNF-α signaling through insulin receptor substrate-1 and PI3K to enhance to TNF-α/NIK-dependent down-regulation of PTEN and that activation of Akt is augmented by the decrease in PTEN, which antagonizes Akt activation by PI3K inhibition.  To examine whether TNF-α-mediated down-regulation of PTEN is dependent on the PI3K/Akt pathway in HT29 cells, the PI3K inhibitor LY294002 (CITATION) and the Akt inhibitor (CITATION) were used to pretreat the cells prior to TNF-α incubation. Both LY294002 and the selective Akt inhibitor failed to prevent the decrease in IκB-α and PTEN in TNF-α-treated HT29 cells (Fig. 4). These data suggest that the down-regulation of PTEN by TNF-α is mediated by NIK, independent of the PI3K/Akt pathway, and that the activation of Akt in TNF-α-treated cells is augmented resulting from the decay of the antagonizing phosphatase PTEN.  [[FIGURE]]  IκB-α Autoregulatory Loop Is Absent in HT29 —NF-κB activity is controlled by IκB isoforms (IκB-α, -β, and -ϵ), which sequester NF-κB to the cytoplasm, whereas TNF-α stimulation and subsequent IκB degradation allow NF-κB nuclear translocation and DNA binding (CITATION). NF-κB signaling is complex in that NF-κB activity is modulated by rapid transcriptional autoregulatory loop involving NF-κB mediated IκB-α synthesis, which occurs within hours of TNF-α stimulation (CITATION, CITATION). In addition, it was shown recently that NF-κB-mediated IκB-α synthesis provides a strong negative feedback to inhibit NF-κB activation (CITATION).  To obtain insight into why PTEN expression is down-regulated in HT29 cells by TNF-α but such an effect failed to occur in HEK293 cells, we examined the changes in expression level of IκB-α and PTEN, when cells are treated with 1 nm TNF-α over a time course. As shown in Fig. 5A, TNF-α treatment gradually decreased PTEN in HT29 cells; this was because of the progressive and sustained decrease in IκB-α levels. Thus, no IκB-α rebound synthesis was observed in HT29 cells beyond 3 h of TNF-α treatment. Similar, but not as dramatic, results were noted after TNF-α treatment of SiHa cells (Fig. 5B). On the contrary, TNF-α treatment did not result in decreased PTEN expression in HEK293 cells (Fig. 5B). Noteworthy, TNF-α produced a rapid initial decrease in IκB-α at 1 h, but this decline was followed by rebound synthesis with resultant increase in IκB-α levels which exceeded basal expression up to 16 h (Fig. 5B). Therefore, the decay in PTEN protein in TNF-α-treated HT29 cells is associated with an abnormal deficiency in the IκB-α autoregulatory loop. These data suggest that sustained NF-κB activation because of prolonged IκB-α suppression may be responsible for the differential effect noted in PTEN expression in these two cell lines.  [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Materials—TNF-α was purchased from Sigma. PI3K inhibitor, LY294002, was obtained from Cell Signaling (Beverly, MA) and dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide. Akt inhibitor (1L-6-hydroxymethyl-chiroinositol 2-[(R)-2-O-methyl-3-o-octadecylcarbonate]) was purchased from Alexis Biochemicals (San Diego). Cell membrane-permeable, synthetic NF-κB-binding peptide, SN50, and mutant control, SN50M, were obtained from Biomol (Plymouth Meeting, PA). Cell lysis buffer was purchased from Cell Signaling. NuPAGE 4–12% BisTris gel and Immunoblot polyvinylidene difluoride membranes were purchased from Invitrogen. The enhanced chemiluminescence (ECL) system was purchased from Amersham Biosciences, and SuperSignal West Dura Extended Duration Substrate was purchased from Pierce. The Bio-Rad Protein Assay was obtained from Bio-Rad Laboratories. Platinum Taq DNA polymerase and the PCRx enhancer system were purchased from Invitrogen. TriZol reagent was obtained from Invitrogen. X-ray film for autoradiography was from Eastman Kodak. Antibody against PTEN was obtained from Cell Signaling and BD Transduction Laboratories. Akt, phospho-Akt (Ser-473), and phospho-GSK-3β were purchased from Cell Signaling. Anti-p65 NF-κB, NIK, and normal rabbit, mouse, and rat horseradish peroxidase-conjugated antibodies were obtained from Santa Cruz Biotechnology (Santa Cruz, CA). Anti-β-actin antibody was obtained from Sigma. The dual luciferase assay system, pRL-null plasmid, and pGL3-Basic reporter vector were obtained from Promega (Madison, WI). LipofectAMINE Plus reagent was purchased from Invitrogen. Cell culture reagents were from Cellgro (Herndon, VA). Adenovirus vector encoding p65 NF-κB (Ad5p65), NIK (Ad5NIK), and hemagglutinin-tagged IκB-α superrepressor (Ad5IκB-AA) and its control vector (Ad5GFP) were gifts from Dr. Christian Jobin (University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill). The BD Adeno-X Virus Purification Kit and Adeno-X Rapid Titer Kit were purchased from BD Biosciences. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)-based transcription factor activity BD Mercury Transfactor kits for NF-κB p65 and p50 were purchased from BD Biosciences. NE-PER Nuclear and Cytoplasmic Extraction Reagents were obtained from Pierce.  Cell Culture and Viral Infections—The human colon cancer cell lines HT29 and SW480, human cervical cancer cell line SiHa, and human embryonic kidney cell line HEK293 were obtained from the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC; Rockville, MD). All cells were grown at 37 °C in a humidified incubator under 5% CO2 and 95% air in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium supplemented with 10% (v/v) heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum. Cells were treated with TNF-α at the indicated doses in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium with fetal bovine serum. Adenoviruses were amplified in HEK293 cells, purified using the BD Adeno-X Virus Purification Kit, and titer determined using the Adeno-X Rapid Titer Kit. Cells were infected with adenovirus vectors at a 20 multiplicity of infection/cell, as described previously (CITATION, CITATION).  Western Blot Analysis—Western blots were performed as described previously (CITATION). Briefly, attached cells were collected and washed once with phosphate-buffered saline. Whole-cell lysates were prepared using Cell Lysis Buffer containing 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. Proteins (50–100 μg/lane) were separated by NuPAGE 4–12% BisTris gel and transferred electrophoretically to Immuno-Blot polyvinylidene difluoride membrane. Membranes were blocked overnight at 4 °C or 1 h at room temperature with blocking solution (Tris-buffered saline solution containing 5% nonfat dry milk and 0.05% Tween 20). Blots were then incubated for 2–3 h at room temperature or at 4 °C overnight with primary antibodies in 1% buffer solution (Tris-buffered saline solution containing 1% nonfat dry milk and 0.05% Tween 20), washed twice with 1% buffer solution, and incubated with a horseradish peroxidase-labeled secondary antibody for 1 h at room temperature. After two washes with Tris-buffered saline solution containing 0.05% Tween 20 followed by a final wash with Tris-buffered saline without Tween 20, the immune complexes were visualized using the ECL system or the SuperSignal West Dura system.  RNA Isolation and Real Time RT-PCR—Total RNA was isolated using TriZol reagent. Applied Biosystem Assays-by-Design (P/N 4331348) 20× assay mixture (Foster City, CA) of primers and TaqMan® MGB probes (FAM™ dye-labeled) for the target gene, human PTEN (NCBI accession no. NM_000314), and predeveloped 18 S rRNA (VIC™-dye-labeled probe) TaqMan® assay reagent (P/N 4319413E) for internal control were utilized. Human PTEN primers were designed to span the exon 6-exon 7 junction so as not to detect genomic DNA. Primer and probe sequences were searched against the Celera Genomic data base (www.celeradiscoverysystem.com) to confirm specificity. The probe and primer sequences of human PTEN were as follows: probe, TGAGGATTGCAAGTTC; forward, CAAGATGATGTTTGAAACTATTCCAATG; reverse, CCTTTAGCTGGCAGACCACAA. A validation experiment was performed to test the efficiency of the target amplification and the efficiency of the reference amplification. The absolute value of the slope of log input amount versus ΔCT was <0.1. Singleplex one-step RT-PCR was performed with 20 ng of RNA for both target gene (PTEN) and endogenous control. The reagent used was TaqMan® one-step RT-PCR master mix reagent kit (P/N 4309169). The cycling parameters for one-step RT-PCR were as follows: RT, 48 °C for 30 min; AmpliTaq activation, 95 °C for 10 min; denaturation, 95 °C for 15 s; and annealing/extension, 60 °C for 1 min (repeat 40 times). Triplicate CT values were analyzed using Microsoft Excel using the comparative CT (ΔΔCT) method as described by the manufacturer (Applied Biosystems). The amount of target (2-ΔΔCT) was obtained after normalization with an endogenous reference (18 S).  ELISA-based Transcription Factor Activity Assay—Nuclear protein from HT29 cells was extracted using the NE-PER Nuclear and Cytoplasmic Extraction Reagents and quantified using the protein assay dye reagent. ELISA-based transcription factor activity assay was performed following the manufacturer's protocol. Briefly, 10 μg of nuclear extracts were incubated within 96-well format chamber coated with oligonucleotides containing consensus binding sequences for either p50 or p65 NF-κB. Bound transcription factors were then detected by a specific anti-p50 or -p65 antibodies followed by a horseradish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibody, which was used to detect the bound primary antibody. For competition assays, excess competitor oligonucleotides were coincubated with nuclear protein. For p50 and p65 transcription factor activity assays, 500-ng and 1,000-ng competitor oligonucleotides were used, respectively. Samples were run in triplicates, and all experiments were performed on at least two separate occasions.  Transient Transfection, Luciferase Assays—A PCR fragment encompassing the human PTEN promoter was amplified with the primers PTENa 5′-GGTAACCTCAGACTCGAGTCAGTGA-3′ and PTENb 5′-TGGCTGCCATGGCTGGGAGCCTGTG-3′ using Platinum Taq DNA polymerase and the PCRx enhancer system following the instructions of the supplier. The PCR fragment was cut with the restriction enzymes XhoI and NcoI and inserted in the corresponding sites of the pGL3-Basic reporter vector. Cell transfections were conducted as described previously (CITATION). Briefly, HT29 cells were seeded at 1 × 105 cells into 24-well plates in triplicate 24 h prior to transfection. Cells were then transiently transfected with 0.4 μg of the PTEN-promoter firefly luciferase reporter plasmid and 0.05 μg of Renilla reporter pRL-null to normalize for variation in transfection efficiency, using LipofectAMINE Plus transfection agent following the manufacturer's recommended protocol. Cells were harvested for measurement of firefly and Renilla luciferase activities using the dual luciferase assay system. Firefly luciferase activity was determined by subtracting background signal and normalized to the Renilla activity. Fold inhibition was calculated by dividing treatment values by control values.  Statistical Analysis—All data presented with statistical analysis were analyzed using a two-sample t test. All tests were assessed at the 0.05 level of significance. 
