!~ABS~! STAT1 (signal transducer and activator of transcription 1) has been implicated as a mediator of a variety of biological responses in response to stimulation by specific growth factors and cytokines. To understand better the role of STAT1 in the interferon-γ (IFN-γ)-induced phenotype, we generated an active form of STAT1 (STAT1C) by substituting Cys residues for both Arg-656 and Asn-658 within the C-terminal loop of the STAT1 SH2 domain. The IFN-γ activation site element was stimulated and bound efficiently by STAT1C without IFN-γ treatment. STAT1C was found to be tyrosine-phosphorylated in the nucleus for more than 30 h after IFN-γ stimulation. STAT1-negative U3A cells reexpressing STAT1C showed retarded cell growth and underwent apoptosis when treated with IFN-γ. Further analysis demonstrated that apoptosis was preceded by proteolytic cleavage of caspases 2, 3, and 7, and wild type STAT1 also induced cleavage of caspase 7 when expressed in STAT1-negative U3A cells, indicating that STAT1C augments potential activity of wild type STAT1. Studies with cycloheximide treatment showed that protein synthesis induced in the first 24 h after IFN-γ treatment was required for apoptosis under these conditions. Finally, we found that STAT1C-induced apoptosis was, in part, mediated by caspase 2, 3, and 7 because benzyloxycarbonyl-valyl-aspartyl-valyl-alanyl-aspartic acid fluoromethyl ketone (Z-VDVAD-FMK) treatment partially blocked apoptosis. These results suggest that prolonged nuclear localization of activated STAT1 results in apoptosis involving specific regulation of caspase pathway. 
!~RES~! Generate Active Form of STAT1—It has been shown that the introduction of two Cys residues into Ala-662 and Asn-664 in the STAT3 SH2 domain produces a constitutively active form of STAT3 (CITATION). We generated a mutant STAT1 (STAT1C) by introducing Cys residues into Ala-656 and Asn-658 in the SH2 domain, which are equivalent to Ala-662 and Asn-664 of STAT3 (Fig. 1 A). Transcription activity of STAT1C was examined in the presence or absence of IFN-γ using an M67luc reporter construct containing four copies of STAT1 binding sites upstream of the luciferase gene (CITATION–CITATION). STAT1-positive 2fTGH cells and STAT1-negative U3A cells (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION) were transfected with an empty, STAT1-, or STAT1C-expressing vector together with M67luc for 40 h and stimulated further by 20 ng/ml IFN-γ for 6 h before measuring luciferase activity. As shown in Fig. 1B, STAT1 activated the reporter 46-fold after IFN-γ treatment in U3A cells; an empty vector alone did not increase the activity because of a loss of endogenous STAT1 expression. Significantly, STAT1C alone activated the reporter plasmid 80-fold, and IFN-γ treatment further enhanced the activity up to 147-fold. In STAT1-positive 2fTGH cells, luciferase activity was increased 2.5-fold when vector alone was transfected, and transfection of STAT1 enhanced the activity 27-fold when treated with IFN-γ. As shown in U3A cells, STAT1C alone activated the reporter plasmid 48-fold, an outcome enhanced by IFN-γ treatment up to 88-fold. These results suggest that STAT1C alone can potentially activate a promoter containing STAT1 binding sites and that this activity is strongly enhanced by IFN-γ stimulation.  [[FIGURE]]  STAT1C Shows Increased Tyrosine Phosphorylation—U3A cells were stably transfected with STAT1C, which has the FLAG tag at the C terminus, and G418-resistant clones were isolated for further analysis. Among the clones obtained, 1CC and 1C5 clones were found to express similar levels of STAT1 protein with G8 cells generated by stably expressing STAT1α in U3A cells (CITATION). It has been shown that tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT1 Tyr-701 is essential for dimerization, nuclear translocation and DNA binding ability. To understand how Tyr-701 phosphorylation is involved in the strong transactivation activity of STAT1C, we examined the phosphorylation status of Tyr-701 and the induction of IRF1, a well characterized IFN-γ target gene, with or without treatment with the kinase inhibitor genistein, which is frequently used for the inhibition of tyrosine kinases. 100 μm genistein was added to the cell culture 30 min after IFN-γ stimulation, and nuclear extracts were prepared for immunoblot analysis at 30 min, 1 h, 6 h, 12 h, 24 h, and 30 h after IFN-γ stimulation. The expression level of nuclear transcription factor Sp1 was unchanged, and it is shown as a loading control in Fig. 2. Although significant change in the nuclear STAT1 protein level was not observed in G8 cells, Tyr-701 phosphorylation was transiently induced (30 min) in these cells. Nuclear localization and Tyr-701 phosphorylation of STAT1 were undetectable in IFN-γ-stimulated G8 cells when treated with genistein, serving as a positive control of Jak kinase inhibition by genistein. These results are consistent with the previous finding that Tyr-701 phosphorylation is required for nuclear localization of STAT1 (CITATION–CITATION). Interestingly, IRF1 was also induced in the presence of genistein in G8 cells, although induction was slightly weaker than untreated G8 cells. These results suggest that low levels of nuclear STAT1 are sufficient for induction of IRF1. In 1CC and 1C5 cells, STAT1C was more nuclear than in G8 even in the presence of genistein. Although Tyr-701 phosphorylation was slightly decreased by genistein in both 1CC and 1C5 cells, it was significantly sustained for 30 h after IFN-γ stimulation even with genistein treatment, implying that prolonged STAT1C phosphorylation is a consequence not of kinase hyperactivation but of a decreased dephosphorylation rate. Consistent with the enhanced phosphorylation in Tyr-701, a remarkable induction of IRF1 was sustained for 30 h in 1CC and 1C5 cells after IFN-γ stimulation. Interestingly, high expression of IRF1 was also detected in genistein-treated cells. These results suggest that IFN-γ-induced Tyr-701 phosphorylation is protected from nuclear phosphatase activity by the reinforced interaction of the SH2 domain through the Cys-Cys bond.  [[FIGURE]]  Increased DNA Binding Ability of STAT1C—Next, DNA binding activity of STAT1C protein was studied using an electrophoretic mobility shift assay (Fig. 3A). Normally growing 2fTGH, G8, and 1CC cells were treated with IFN-γ for 15, 30, and 120 min, and cell extracts were subjected to electrophoretic mobility shift assay using a 32P-labeled STAT1-binding DNA element as a probe (CITATION). Wild type STAT1 showed increased DNA binding after 15 min of treatment which gradually decreased in 120 min. The basal DNA binding ability of STAT1C was higher than that of wild type (lanes 1, 5, and 9) and was remarkably increased and sustained for more than 120 min after IFN-γ stimulation (lanes 10–12).  [[FIGURE]]  Specific binding of STAT1 and STAT1C to the probe was confirmed by a competition assay using an unlabeled DNA probe (Fig. 3B). Cell extracts were prepared from unstimulated or stimulated (15 min) cells, and an excess amount of unlabeled DNA probe was added to the extracts. Consistent with the results in Fig. 3A, STAT1C was found to bind DNA more efficiently than wild type STAT1 without IFN-γ treatment (lanes 1, 7, and 13). Strong DNA binding ability of STAT1C was induced in 15 min, and it disappeared after administration of an excess DNA probe, confirming that STAT1C specifically recognizes the GAS element.  Specific binding of STAT1C to GAS element was confirmed further with antibodies recognizing STAT1C in gel shift assay (Fig. 3C). In 2fTGH cells, STAT1 binding to GAS element (lane 2) was supershifted with anti-STAT1 antibody (lanes 3 and 5) but not affected with anti-FLAG antibody (lanes 4 and 5). Enhanced DNA binding of STAT1C (lane 11) was supershifted with antibodies for FLAG, STAT1, or both (lanes 12–14) because STAT1C is FLAG-tagged at the C terminus. Consistent with results in Fig. 3B, DNA-binding signals were completed with excess M67 probe, not with unrelated cold probe (lanes 6–9 and 15–18). These results demonstrate that STAT1C contains a DNA binding ability similar to that of wild type STAT1, but it is further enhanced by IFN-γ treatment.  STAT1C Shows Antiproliferative Activity—We studied the biological activity of STAT1C on cell growth by comparing its effects with those of wild type STAT1. Exponentially growing 2fTGH, U3A, G8, 1CC, and 1C5 cells were plated at 2 × 105 cells/6-cm plate. After 24 h, IFN-γ (20 ng/ml) was added to the medium, and the cells were counted at different times during a 5-day interval (Fig. 4A). No significant differences in growth rate were observed between untreated (solid line) or IFN-γ-treated 2fTGH, U3A, or G8 cells (dotted line). In contrast, 1CC and 1C5 cells showed striking growth retardation 24–30 h after stimulation compared with untreated 1CC and 1C5 cells. This growth retardation was also observed when a lower concentration of IFN-γ was used (5 ng/ml, data not shown).  [[FIGURE]]  Cell morphology was analyzed by phase-contrast microscopy of 2fTGH, U3A, G8, 1CC, and 1C5 cells treated with IFN-γ for 48 h (Fig. 4B). Each cell line showed indistinguishable morphology before treatment (a–e), but 1CC and 1C5 cells detached from the plate after 48 h of IFN-γ treatment and showed condensed nuclei, characteristic of cultured cells undergoing apoptosis (i and j). Although previous studies demonstrated that 2fTGH and STAT1-reconstituted U3A cells show the apoptosis phenotype in 72 h after IFN-γ treatment (CITATION), 2fTGH, U3A, and G8 cells did not show apoptosis after the same treatment within 48 h in our experiments. These results suggest that enhanced STAT1 activity results in cell death after IFN-γ treatment.  STAT1C Sensitizes Cells to Apoptosis by IFN-γ—We further quantified apoptosis of STAT1C cells induced by IFN-γ treatment. 2fTGH, U3A, G8, 1CC, and 1C5 cells were plated at 2 × 106 cells/10-cm plate, respectively. After 24 h, cells were stimulated with 20 ng/ml IFN-γ for 48 h. Collected cells were then stained with propidium iodide and fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled annexin V, a marker of an early stage of apoptosis, and were analyzed by means of fluorescence-activated cell sorter (Fig. 5A). Apoptosis of 2fTGH, U3A, or G8 cells did not an increase by 48 h of IFN-γ treatment. STAT1C-expressing 1CC and 1C5 cells showed slightly high levels of apoptosis without IFN-γ treatment (11 and 13%, respectively), but increased cell death was observed at 24–48 h after IFN-γ treatment (33 and 43% at 48 h, respectively). As a positive control of apoptosis, hydroxyperoxide treatment of 1CC and 1C5 cells resulted in 66 and 69% frequency of apoptosis, respectively, in 24 h. These results confirm that STAT1C can sensitize cells to IFN-γ-induced apoptosis.  [[FIGURE]]  We next tested whether de novo protein synthesis is required for apoptosis by using the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide (CHX). CHX was added to the 1CC cell cultures at 6, 12, and 24 h after IFN-γ stimulation (Fig. 5B, top). At 48 h after IFN-γ stimulation, cells were collected and divided into two aliquots, one for fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis and the other for immunoblot of STAT1 and α-tubulin. When CHX was added to the cell culture after 0–6 h of IFN-γ treatment, 1CC cells did not show apoptosis (Fig. 5B, panels 1 and 2). However, when cells were exposed to IFN-γ for 24 h, CHX did not prevent the cells from undergoing apoptosis (Fig. 5B, panels 3 and 4). Treatment with CHX alone resulted in the intermediate rate of apoptosis only at 48 h (35%, Fig. 5B, panel 6). To avoid the possibility that this inhibition of apoptosis was the result of a decreased level of STAT1C as a result of CHX treatment, expression of STAT1C was confirmed by immunoblot with anti-STAT1 antibody (Fig. 5C). These results support the hypotheses that 1) STAT1C can transmit apoptosis signals; 2) apoptosis is not an immediate response to IFN-γ treatment, but it is dependent on de novo protein synthesis during the first 6–12 h after stimulation. Such protein synthesis is conceivably regulated by STAT1C.  Cleavage of Caspase 2, 3, and 7 in IFN-γ-treated STAT1C Cells—Genetic studies in Caenorhabditis elegans defined an evolutionarily conserved apoptosis pathway including activation of cysteine proteases called caspases. Once activated, these proteases cleave specific intracellular substrates, leading to cell death. We sought to determine whether specific activation of caspases is involved in IFN-γ-induced apoptosis of 1CC and 1C5 cells. 2fTGH, U3A, G8, 1CC, and 1C5 cells were treated with IFN-γ for 24 or 48 h. Total cell lysates were studied by immunoblot analysis using anti-caspase 1, 2, 3, 6, and 7 antibodies that recognize the full-length and/or cleaved forms of caspases (Fig. 6A). A strong increase in caspase 1 protein was observed in IFN-γ-treated 1CC and 1C5 cells, although previous studies had showed that the mRNA level of caspase 1 is increased in a STAT1-dependent manner in response to IFN-γ stimulation (CITATION). Cleaved forms of caspases 2, 3, and 7 were specifically detected in 1CC and 1C5 cells from 24 to 48 h of IFN-γ treatment, whereas no cleaved forms of caspases 1 and 6 were detected in 2fTGH, U3A, G8, 1CC, or 1C5 cells.  [[FIGURE]]  To rule out the possibility that this caspase activation and apoptosis are induced only in STAT1C cells, we studied also HeLa cells expressing wild type STAT1, because it has been reported that IFN-γ treatment can induce caspase 1 expression and apoptosis particularly maintained in 1% serum medium (CITATION). As shown in Fig. 6B, IFN-γ treatment induced full-length caspase 1 in 1% serum and caspase 3 in both 10 and 1% serum medium when HeLa cells were treated with IFN-γ for 72 h. Significantly, cleaved forms of both caspase 3 and 7 were also immunodetected in IFN-γ-treated HeLa cells. IRF1 induction showed that the IFN-γ pathway is intact in HeLa cells. We further examined whether U3A cells that are transiently transfected with an empty vector, STAT1wt (WT) or STAT1C (1C) expression vectors can activate caspase pathway when treated with IFN-γ (Fig. 6C). Induction of caspase 1 by WT and 1C and cleavage of caspase 3 by WT were not detected in this transfection assay perhaps because of low transfection efficiency, because stable transfectants of 1CC and 1C5 cells showed strong induction and cleavage of both caspases (Fig. 6A). Nevertheless, cleavage of caspase 7 was detected in transient transfection of WT, and cleavage of caspase 3 and 7 was detected in transfection of 1C. These results indicate that activation of caspase pathway by IFN-γ is not specific in STAT1C cells but is generally observed in IFN-γ-treated cells.  Partial Inhibition of Apoptosis by Z-VDVAD-FMK—On the basis of the observation described above, we attempted to determine whether STAT1C-mediated apoptosis specifically involves the caspase pathway. As shown in Fig. 7, 1CC cells were grown in normal medium with IFN-γ alone and/or Z-VDVAD-FMK, which specifically inhibits caspase 2 and, to a lesser degree, caspase 3 and 7 (CITATION, CITATION). Cell morphology and annexin V staining were studied after 48 h. Apoptosis of 1CC cells by IFN-γ (75%) was partially inhibited by coincubation with Z-VDVAD-FMK (49%). These results demonstrate that caspase 2 and, perhaps, caspase 3 and 7 are partially involved in STAT1C-mediated apoptosis.  [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Cell Lines, Transfection, and Luciferase Measurements—2fTGH (CITATION), U3A (CITATION), and HeLa cells were grown in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum (Invitrogen). G8 cells (CITATION) were grown in the same medium to which 100 μg/ml G418 (Invitrogen) had been added. IFN-γ was purchased from PeproTech, Inc. (Rocky Hill, NJ). Transfections were made with FuGENE 6 (Roche Applied Science). Luciferase assay basic procedures have been described (CITATION). For each cell culture, 1 μg of M67luc with STAT1wt, STAT1C, or empty vector was transfected. Cells were treated with IFN-γ for 6 h before luciferase assay. β-Galactosidase activity was measured as an internal control by cotransfection of pcDNA3.1/His/LacZ (Invitrogen). Values shown represent a normalized average of three or four independent transfections.  Western Blot Analysis—Cells were lysed in EBC buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 120 mm NaCl, 0.5% Nonidet P-40, 100 mm NaF, 200 μm sodium orthovanadate, 10 μg/ml phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 10 μg/ml leupeptin, 10 μg/ml aprotinin). Protein concentration in cell lysates was determined using the Bio-Rad protein assay kit. An equal amount of protein (20 or 100 μg for caspase assay) for each sample was separated by 7.5–10 or 15% SDS-PAGE and transferred to Immobilon-P membrane (Millipore). The membranes were blocked with 5% skim milk or 3% bovine serum albumin in phosphate-buffered saline and sequentially incubated with primary antibodies and horseradish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibodies (Jackson Laboratories) followed by ECL detection (Amersham Biosciences).  Antibodies—Antibodies used were rabbit polyclonal antibodies for STAT1 p84/p91 (E-23), IRF1 (C-20), mouse monoclonal antibody for α-tubulin (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Inc.); rabbit polyclonal anti-phospho-STAT1 (Tyr-701) and anti-cleaved caspase 3 (Asp-175) (Cell Signaling Technology); and rabbit polyclonal antibodies anti-caspase 1 (Ab-1), caspase 2 (Ab-1), cleaved caspase 3 (Ab-1), caspase 6 (Ab-2), caspase 7 (Ab-1) (Oncogene Research Products).  Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay—Total lysates or nuclear extracts were prepared from various type of cells both untreated and treated with IFN-γ for various time periods, as described previously (CITATION, CITATION). Synthetic double strand oligonucleotide M67, 5′-CATTTCCCGTAAATCAT-3′, was end labeled with [γ-32P]ATP using T4 polynucleotide kinase. Extracts were incubated with the labeled probe in the presence of poly(dI-dC) in a binding buffer containing 20 mm HEPES at room temperature for 30 min. For the competition assay, 2–10 ng of unlabeled probe or 1–5 μg of the indicated antibodies was added to the incubation mix. After resolving the DNA-protein complex in a 5% nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel, gels were dried and visualized by autoradiography.  Plasmid Constructs—STAT1wt FLAG-tagged in pcDNA3.1 was a gift from Dr. C. Horvath. The STAT1-C construct was made using site-directed mutagenesis (QuikChange, Stratagene) with primer pairs 5′-AATTACAAAGTCATGGCTTGTGAGTGTATTCCTGAGAATCCC-3′. The construct was then transferred to a pRc/CMV vector (Invitrogen) and the cytomegalovirus promoter was replaced by EF1α promoter from pEF vector (Invitrogen).  Apoptosis Assay—Annexin V and propidium iodine staining was performed as described by the manufacturer (Roche Applied Science). After flow cytometry, cells were divided into four distinct populations using the control cells as a reference; the lower left quadrant of the dot plot represented viable cells, and the lower and upper right quadrants represented cells early and late in apoptosis, respectively. The cells in each quadrant were then gated, and the percentage of the total population was determined using CellQuest™ (BD Biosciences) software. 
