!~ABS~! The serine proteinase inhibitor tissue factor pathway inhibitor-2 (TFPI-2) inhibits the tissue factor-factor VIIa complex and thereby impairs factor Xa and subsequently thrombin generation. Here we show that thrombin itself up-regulates TFPI-2 mRNA and protein expression in human liver myofibroblasts, a cell type shown to express high levels of TFPI-2 (Neaud, V., Hisaka, T., Monvoisin, A., Bedin, C., Balabaud, C., Foster, D. C., Desmoulière, A., Kisiel, W., and Rosenbaum, J. (2000) J. Biol. Chem. 275, 35565–35569). This effect required thrombin catalytic activity, as shown by its abolition with hirudin. Although the thrombin effect could be mimicked by agonists of both protease-activated receptor (PAR)-1 and PAR-4, it was largely blocked by a PAR-1 blocking antibody. Transactivation of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor has been reported as a common event in thrombin signaling. However, thrombin did not detectably transactivate the EGF receptor in liver myofibroblasts, and blocking the EGF receptor did not affect TFPI-2 induction. On the other hand, thrombin increased the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) mRNA via a MAPK-dependent pathway, and a specific COX-2 inhibitor abolished the effect of thrombin on TFPI-2 expression. Thus, thrombin, through PAR-1 signaling, up-regulates the synthesis of TFPI-2 via a MAPK/COX-2-dependent pathway. The up-regulation of TFPI-2 expression by thrombin could in turn down-regulate thrombin generation and contribute to limit blood coagulation. 
!~RES~! Northern blot with total RNA showed several transcripts for human TFPI-2. In addition to the 1.8-kb transcript, the previously described 1.2-kb transcript actually resolved into separate 1.1- and 1.3-kb bands, respectively. These two species could not be discriminated enough for separate quantitation on gels. It is likely that they arise through differential polyadenylation (CITATION). Two higher molecular weight bands were also found in minor amounts. Addition of thrombin to human liver myofibroblasts in serum-free conditions dose-dependently increased the expression of TFPI-2 transcripts (Fig. 1, A and C). The increase could be observed as soon as 3 h following thrombin addition and was maximal after 24 h (Fig. 1, B and D). All transcripts were up-regulated in parallel.  [[FIGURE]]  Variations in TFPI-2 protein expression were studied by measuring the amount of TFPI-2 deposited into the ECM, by using Western blot (Fig. 1E). When the intensity of the 31-kDa band was measured in four independent experiments conducted in quadruplicate, there was a significant increase as compared with the control (1.85 ± 0.64-fold, p = 0.006, Mann and Whitney test).  TFPI-2 is closely related to TFPI-1. We thus also studied TFPI-1 expression and its regulation by thrombin by Northern blot. Our results show first that TFPI-1 is indeed expressed in human liver myofibroblasts and that its expression is also up-regulated by thrombin (Fig. 2).  [[FIGURE]]  In order to check whether thrombin effects were specific to liver myofibroblasts, we used the human bladder carcinoma cell line ECV 304, known to express TFPI-2 (CITATION). As shown in Fig. 3, thrombin also up-regulated TFPI-2 in ECV 304 cells. The kinetics were different, however, since expression peaked at 3 h and was back to control values at 24 h. In addition, although all transcripts were up-regulated, the 1.1/1.3-kb level remained elevated for a longer time.  [[FIGURE]]  Most thrombin effects are believed to be mediated through protease-activated receptors. We first checked, by using RT-PCR, whether human liver myofibroblasts expressed PARs. As shown in Fig. 4A, these cells expressed the three putative thrombin receptors, PAR-1, PAR-3, and PAR-4, as well as PAR-2, a receptor for trypsin and factor Xa. In order to know whether thrombin actually used these receptors, we incubated the cells with thrombin together with hirudin, which specifically inhibits thrombin catalytic activity. As demonstrated in Fig. 4, B and C, hirudin completely abolished the stimulating effect of thrombin on TFPI-2 mRNA expression. Hirudin by itself had no effect. The PAR-1 agonist peptide SFLLRNPNRKYEPF dose-dependently up-regulated TFPI-2 mRNA expression in myofibroblasts (Fig. 4, D and E). The PAR-4 agonist peptide GYPGQV also increased TFPI-2 mRNA expression at a concentration of 100 μm. In order to discriminate the relevance of each receptor, we took advantage of the existence of an antibody that blocks the cleavage of PAR-1 by thrombin. As shown in Fig. 4F, this antibody markedly reduced thrombin-induced TFPI-2 expression.  [[FIGURE]]  We then analyzed the transduction pathways involved in the effect of thrombin. Thrombin quickly induced the phosphorylation of both ERK1 and ERK2 (Fig. 5A). Addition of the MEK inhibitor PD98059 to thrombin-stimulated cells completely blocked TFPI-2 induction (Fig. 5, B and C).  [[FIGURE]]  As observed previously, thrombin rapidly up-regulated the expression of COX-2 mRNA in liver myofibroblasts. The maximal increase was seen 3 h after stimulation, and COX-2 transcripts returned to control values at 24 h (Fig. 6A). Induction by thrombin was prevented by using the MAPKK inhibitor PD98059 (data not shown). In order to know whether COX-2 was involved in thrombin-induced up-regulation of TFPI-2 expression, cells were exposed to thrombin in the absence or in the presence of the specific COX-2 inhibitor NS-398. As shown in Fig. 6, B and C, NS-398 completely abolished the increase in TFPI-2 expression evoked by thrombin. NS-398 had no effect on the induction of COX-2 mRNA expression by thrombin (not shown). The inhibitory effect of NS-398 could be completely reversed by the direct addition of prostaglandin E2 to the cells (Fig. 6B).  [[FIGURE]]  Several cellular effects of thrombin have been shown to be relayed through the transactivation of the EGF receptor by thrombin. This possibility was first evaluated in our model by investigating the phosphorylation status of the EGF receptor in thrombin-stimulated cells. When cellular extracts were analyzed by Western blotting with an anti-phosphotyrosine antibody, no increase in the phosphorylation of bands co-migrating with the EGF receptor (as detected by EGF treatment) could be seen over a period of 60 min (Fig. 7A, top panel). This result was confirmed by blotting with an antibody specifically recognizing the phosphorylated EGF receptor (Fig. 7A, bottom panel) and by immunoprecipitating tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins followed by blotting with the anti-phospho-EGF receptor antibody (Fig. 7B). In order to exclude any role for the EGF receptor, we treated thrombin-stimulated cells with AG1478, a specific inhibitor of the EGF receptor kinase. This did not modify TFPI-2 expression, although it efficiently blocked EGF-induced receptor autophosphorylation (Fig. 7C). An EGF receptor blocking antibody did not impair the effect of thrombin on TFPI-2 expression (Fig. 7C). These results suggest that transactivation of the EGF receptor is unlikely to explain the results obtained in our model.  [[FIGURE]]  Although thrombin clearly up-regulates TFPI-2 mRNA and protein expression, the resulting functional effect could be annihilated if TFPI-2 proved to be a substrate for the proteolytic activity of thrombin. This was tested in a functional assay measuring the ability of recombinant TFPI-2 to inhibit plasmin activity toward the colorimetric substrate S2251. As shown in Fig. 8, recombinant TFPI-2 readily inhibited plasmin, and this effect was not decreased by previous treatment with thrombin. Furthermore, when thrombin-treated TFPI-2 was analyzed by Western blot, no difference was found by comparison with native TFPI-2 (not shown).  [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Materials—Culture medium and additives, recombinant human epidermal growth factor, and Moloney murine leukemia virus-reverse transcriptase were from Invitrogen. The Qiagen RNeasy minikit and Hot-start Taq polymerase were from Qiagen (Courtaboeuf, France). [α-32P]dCTP, Hybond N+ membrane, the ECL reagent, and the Ready-to-Go DNA labeling kit were from Amersham Biosciences. Ultrahyb solution was from Ambion (Austin, TX). The ECL reagent was from Amersham Biosciences. Recombinant human TFPI-2 was expressed in baby hamster kidney cells and purified as described previously (CITATION) by a series of chromatographic steps. The PAR-1 agonist peptide SFLLRNPNRKYEPF and the PAR-4 agonist peptide GYPGQV were from Neosystem (Strasbourg, France). The protein assay was from Bio-Rad. Anti-phosphotyrosine antibody P-Tyr-100 was from Santa Cruz Biotechnology (Santa Cruz, CA). Anti-phospho-p44/p42 MAPK antibody (Thr202/Tyr204) was from Cell Signaling Technology (Beverly, MA). Antitotal MAPK was from Promega (Charbonnières, France). Anti-phospho-EGF receptor recognizing phosphorylated Tyr1173 and a blocking anti-EGF receptor antibody were from Upstate Biotechnologies Inc. (Lake Placid, NY). Secondary peroxidase-conjugated antibodies were from Dako (Glostrup, Denmark). The PAR-1 cleavage-blocking antibody H-11 was from Santa Cruz Biotechnology. Immobilon membranes were from Millipore (Saint-Quentin en Yvelynes, France). S2251 was from Chromogenix (Mölndal, Sweden). NS-398 was from Biomol Research Laboratories (Plymouth Meeting, PA). PD98059 and AG1478 were from Calbiochem. Purified human thrombin (1000 NIH units/mg, T4393) and all other chemicals were from Sigma.  Cell Culture—Human hepatic myofibroblasts were obtained from explants of non-tumoral liver resected during partial hepatectomy and characterized as described previously (CITATION, CITATION). Myofibroblasts were grown in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium containing 5% fetal calf serum, 5% pooled human AB serum, and 5 ng/ml recombinant human epidermal growth factor (EGF). When looking at TFPI-2 regulation by thrombin, cells were seeded in 35-mm dishes at an initial density of 9000/cm2 in complete medium. When confluent, they were washed and left in serum and EGF-free Waymouth medium for 3 days. Thrombin was then added in fresh Waymouth medium. Cells from five different donors were used in these experiments.  ECV 304 cells are derived from a human bladder carcinoma. They were grown in Medium 199. RNA Isolation and Northern Blot—At the designated time points, total RNA was isolated using the Qiagen RNeasy minikit. For Northern blot, 2 μg of RNAs were separated on a 1.5% agarose gel containing ethidium bromide in MOPS buffer. Running buffer and gel contained 0.2 m formaldehyde. The RNAs were transferred onto a Hybond N+ membrane by downward capillary transfer in running buffer. Examination of the stained membrane under UV light was used to confirm the quality of loading and transfer. The probes used were the full-length human TFPI-2 cDNA (CITATION), a fragment of the human TFPI-1 cDNA (a gift from P. van der Logt, Leiden, Netherlands), and a fragment of the human COX-2 cDNA (a gift from A. Dannenberg, New York). Probes were labeled with [α-32P]dCTP by random priming using the Ready-to-Go kit. Hybridization was performed using the Ultrahyb solution. The blots were washed in stringent conditions (0.1× SSC, 0.1% SDS at 65 °C). The blots were further rehybridized with a probe to human glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH, a gift from A. Pawlak, Créteil, France). Bands were quantified after image acquisition on a Macintosh computer (Apple Computers, Les Ulis, France) by using the Kodak 1D Image Analysis software (Eastman Kodak Co.). Results are expressed as TFPI-2/GAPDH ratios and normalized according to the control value, set at 1.  RT-PCR—For RT-PCR, 1 μg of total RNA was reverse-transcribed with Moloney murine leukemia virus. An aliquot was amplified by PCR with Qiagen Hot-start Taq polymerase, using the following primers that were described previously (CITATION, CITATION): PAR-1 sense primer, 5′-CAG TTT GGG TCT GAA TTG TGT CG-3′, and antisense primer, 5′-TGC ACG AGC TTA TGC TGC TGA C-3′; PAR-2 sense primer, 5′-GGC CAA TCT GGC CTT GGC TGA C-3′, and antisense primer, 5′-GGG CAG GAA TGA AGA TGG TCT GC-3′; PAR-3 sense primer, 5′-TCCCCTTTTCTGCCTTGGAAG-3′, and antisense primer, 5′-AAA CTG TTG CCC ACA CCA GTC CAC-3′; PAR-4 sense primer, 5′-AAC CTC TAT GGT GCC TAC GTG C-3′, and antisense primer, 5′-CCA AGC CCA GCT AAT TTT TG-3′. PCR conditions were as follows: initial denaturation for 5 min at 94 °C, followed by 35 cycles of 94 °C 30 s/55 °C (PAR-1, -3, and -4) or 60 °C (PAR-2)/30 s, 72 °C/45 s. The sizes of the amplified products are 592, 358, 513, and 542 for PAR 1–4, respectively. Negative control was performed for each reaction and included the omission of the RT step or the omission of cDNA in the PCR mix.  Western Blot for TFPI-2—TFPI-2 was measured in extracellular matrix (ECM) extracts as described previously (CITATION). To prepare ECM extracts for Western blotting, cells were grown to confluence, washed twice with serum-free Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium, and incubated for 24 h in the same medium. The ECM was prepared as described by Rao et al. (CITATION). Briefly, cells were washed 3 times with PBS and lysed with 0.5% (v/v) Triton X-100 in PBS for 20 min at room temperature. Cellular DNA was quantified as described (CITATION). The remaining ECM was washed 3 times with PBS and another 3 times with 20 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, containing 100 mm NaCl and 0.1% (v/v) Tween 20. ECM was then incubated for 2 h at room temperature with reducing Laemmli buffer and collected by scraping. ECM extracts normalized for cell DNA were analyzed by SDS-PAGE on 15% gels and transferred to a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane by semi-dry transfer (Transblot-SD, Bio-Rad). The membrane was blocked with 4% skimmed milk in 10 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 150 mm NaCl, 0.1% Tween 20 (TBS-Tween) for 2 h at room temperature and incubated overnight at 4 °C with anti-TFPI-2 IgG (10 μg/ml) (CITATION) in TBS-Tween containing 1% bovine serum albumin and then 1 h at room temperature with a peroxidase-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG antibody. Detection was achieved by enhanced chemiluminescence. The signals were quantified with the Kodak 1D Image Analysis software.  Preparation of Cell Extracts and Assay of Protein Phosphorylation by Western Blot—For studies of activation of MAPK, Akt, and tyrosine phosphorylation, cells were grown to confluency and serum-starved for 3 days. They were then exposed to various agonists. At the end of the incubation, cell lysates were prepared in the presence of proteases and phosphatases inhibitors as described (CITATION). Proteins were measured with a Bio-Rad assay. Equivalent amounts of proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE, transferred to polyvinylidene difluoride membranes, and analyzed by Western blotting with antibodies to phosphotyrosine, phospho-MAPK, phospho-Akt-1, or phospho-EGF receptor. The signals were revealed with a chemiluminescent substrate. The blots were then stripped and rehybridized with an antibody to total MAPK to confirm equal loading.  Assay for TFPI-2 Inactivation by Thrombin—The assay was based on the ability of TFPI-2 to inhibit plasmin. Recombinant human TFPI-2 (2 μg) was incubated with 1.5 units of thrombin for 3 h at 37 °C in a total volume of 17 μl. This was followed by the addition of hirudin to neutralize thrombin. Plasmin activity was monitored by using the colorimetric substrate S2251, as described (CITATION, CITATION). The reaction mixture contained S2251 with either purified plasmin alone or in the presence of native or thrombin-treated TFPI-2. Optimal concentrations of reagents were determined in preliminary experiments. All assays were carried out in duplicate. An aliquot of the digestion mixtures was also analyzed by Western blot with a polyclonal anti-TFPI-2 antibody. 
