!~ABS~! Plant mitochondria contain non-phosphorylating NAD(P)H dehydrogenases (DHs) that are not found in animal mitochondria. The physiological function, substrate specificity, and location of enzymes within this family have yet to be conclusively determined. We have linked genome sequence information to protein and biochemical data to identify that At1g07180 (SwissProt Q8GWA1) from the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative database encodes AtNDI1, an internal NAD(P)H DH in Arabidopsis mitochondria. Three lines of evidence are presented: (a) The predicted protein sequence of AtNDI1 has high homology with other designated NAD(P)H DHs from microorganisms, (b) the capacity for matrix NAD(P)H oxidation via the rotenone-insensitive pathway is significantly reduced in the Atndi1 mutant plant line, and (c) the in vitro translation product of AtNDI1 is imported into isolated mitochondria and located on the inside of the inner membrane.
!~RES~! Six putative NAD(P)H DH sequences (AT1g07180 [AtNDI1], AT2g29990, AT2g20800, AT4g05020, AT4g28220, and AT4g21490) were identified from the Arabidopsis genome database, based on sequence similarity with the yeast genes ScNDE1, ScNDE2, and ScNDI1 (Table I; Figs. 1 and 2). With the exception of AT4g21490, all of the putative translated proteins from these sequences were predicted to be mitochondrially located by at least one of the public subcellular prediction programs: Psort, Predotar, and Target P (Table II). The fact that five of the six putative NAD(P)H DHs are predicted to be mitochondrial by two of the more commonly used prediction programs suggests a mitochondrial location. The poor prediction of targeting signal length by TargetP may be because at least some of these proteins are located on the intermembrane space side of the inner membrane and, thus, are not likely to contain a typical processing site for the matrix located mitochondrial processing peptidase. Thus, the predicted length of the targeting signal may not be reliable. Even though AT4g21490 was not predicted to target to a mitochondrial location, it was retained due to its high similarity to the characterized NAD(P)H DH sequences (Table I). The highest similarity was seen between AtNDI1 and AT2g29990, with 82% amino acid residue identity. The plant protein sequences separate into two groups that either show a high similarity to the previously characterized potato StNDA or StNDB sequences (CITATION). The NDA-like sequences have an average of 74% identity (ranging from 70%-82%) compared with an average of 58% identity seen between the plant NDB-like enzymes (ranging from 47%-65%).   Statistical summary of alignments between characterized NAD(P)H DH and putative Arabidopsis NAD(P)H DH protein sequences Sequence identity is shown as the no. of amino acid residues that are identical between two sequences expressed as a percentage of the total no. of self-amino acids (bold). Sequences with high similarity to each other are shaded.   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]]    Predicted subcellular locations of the putative Arabidopsis and potato NAD(P)H DH protein sequences using Psort, Predotar, or TargetP programs  Predicted length of presequences refer to the no. of residues from the N terminus and were determined using TargetP. For some sequences, - means that the program was unable to determine the presequence cleavage site. When aligned with the previously characterized proteins ScNDE1, ScNDE2, and ScNDI1 of yeast, NcNDE1 of N. crassa and with StNDB and StNDA of potato, the Arabidopsis sequences fall into two clear groups, based both on the presence of common and unique functional motifs within the ScNDE-like and ScNDI-like proteins and similarity to StNDB (Fig. 1) or StNDA (Fig. 2). Both the NDA-like and NDB-like NAD(P)H DH sequences contain two dinucleotide fold motifs, characterized by the core GXGXXG signature (CITATION). The first site is close to the N terminal with the second approximately 150 amino acids downstream. These regions of the proteins could be involved in binding the cofactor FAD and/or the substrate NAD(P)H. Their presence is consistent with observations made by Kerscher (CITATION) based on sequence alignments of microbial NADH DH proteins. It is interesting to note that the predicted NDB-like enzymes are generally longer in length than the NDA-like enzymes (Table I; Figs. 1 and 2). This is due to an insertion of additional sequence that is present toward the C-terminal end of NcNDE1, three of the four Arabidopsis sequences, and the potato NDB protein (Fig. 1). This “insert” region contains two motifs that have homology to Ca2+-binding EF hand motif (CITATION), of which only the first is well conserved in potato NDB (CITATION) and Arabidopsis, and only the second is well conserved in NcNDE1 (CITATION). The presence of this motif in the plant NDB-like NAD(P)H DH sequences is not unexpected because the corresponding activities are sensitive to calcium levels (CITATION). This motif was not seen in ScNDE1 or ScNDE2, which is consistent with these yeast NADH DHs being calcium insensitive (CITATION). However, the insertion sequence and EF hand motif was also absent from the AT4g21490 sequence and the NDA-like NAD(P)H DH sequences. It has been proposed that the EF hand motif could play a role in binding the enzymes to the inner membrane (CITATION). However, this hypothesis is not consistent with the non-phosphorylating NAD(P)H DHs found in other species (specifically yeast enzymes) as suggested by Kerscher (CITATION). The Arabidopsis T-DNA database of insertion mutants (CITATION) was searched by BLAST analysis using the six putative NAD(P)H DH gene sequences from Arabidopsis. Due to the high level of sequence identity between the two NDA-like genes, the results indicated that either or both of the genes appear to have been mutated in the same seed line (SAIL_779_G05, referred to here as the Atndi1 mutant). Molecular analysis of the Atndi1 mutant was undertaken to confirm suppression of AtNDI1 and/or AT2g29990. Genomic PCR was carried out using an insert-specific primer (T-DNA-SP) in combination with a gene-specific primer (ATx-GSP) to confirm the presence or absence of the insert in the genes of interest. To determine whether the NDA-like genes (AT2g29990 and AtNDI1) were being expressed, reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR was performed using the gene-specific 5′- and 3′-untranslated region (UTR) primers (At1 and At6, Table III). All amplifications were carried out in triplicate using DNA and RNA isolated from the separate Arabidopsis shaking cultures used for mitochondrial extraction and biochemical analyses. A schematic representation of the AtNDI1 gene (including introns) indicates the location of primers used with respect to the T-DNA insertion site (Fig. 3A). In the genomic PCR, the Atndi1 shaking seedling cultures gave no amplification product using T-DNA-SP in combination with AT1-GSP (data not shown). However, products of expected size were amplified in the Atndi1 T-DNA mutant replicates using T-DNA-SP in combination with AT6-GSP (Fig. 3B). This indicates that the T-DNA insert is in the AtNDI1 gene rather than At2g29990. Figure 3C shows the amplification of AT2g29990 cDNA in each of the replicate Atndi1 mutants and in wt samples (sequence identity confirmed by sequencing). In contrast, RT-PCR using the AtNDI1 gene-specific 5′-and 3′-UTR primers failed to amplify any cDNA product from the Atndi1 mutant RNA but amplified the full-length cDNA from wt (Fig. 3D).    Primers used for cloning the AtNDI1 gene and analysis of the Atndi1 mutant (AT1 is specific to gene AT2g29990 and AT6 to AtNDI1)    [[FIGURE]] From these results, we concluded that the mutant plants contain an insert in AtNDI1 that has completely suppressed the transcription of this gene, whereas the highly homologous At2g29990 gene is still transcribed. As a consequence, it was assumed that changes in the biochemical properties of mutant compared with wt mitochondria are attributable to disruption of AtNDI1. When wt and transgenic plants were grown under identical conditions, there was no observable morphological phenotype. The plants in shaking culture yielded approximately the same amount of tissue (fresh weight 20-30 g), shoot to root ratios were not significantly different, and overall appearance was similar (data not shown). This is not altogether surprising given that the transcription of only one of the two putative internal NAD(P)H DH genes is disrupted in the T-DNA insertion mutant plants. Mitochondria were isolated from mutant and wt plants grown in shaking culture, and their electron transport capacity was measured. The assays were designed to measure the internal, external, and outer membrane NAD(P)H DH capacities separately in intact mitochondria. This was achieved by the selective use of FeCN as an artificial electron acceptor in conjunction with inhibitors of different parts of respiratory electron transport chain. Conditions were chosen to favor the production of NAD(P)H via malate DH and malic enzyme within the matrix (for details, see “Materials and Methods”). In all cases, enzyme activities are expressed as a ratio of the succinate DH activity for that mitochondrial preparation to compensate for any variation in the respiratory activity of individual mitochondrial extractions. Total matrix malate-FeCN reductase activity ratio was approximate 40% lower in the mutant plants compared with wt (Fig. 4). This was due entirely to a decrease in the rotenone-insensitive pathway of approximately 65%. There was no significant change in the rate of rotenone-sensitive malate-FeCN reduction, which is catalyzed by Complex I of the respiratory chain. In addition, an immunoblot of mitochondrial proteins probed with antisera against the 51-kD subunit of bovine Complex I indicated that protein levels of this subunit were not different between wt and Atndi1 mutant mitochondria (data not shown). The activity of the external-facing inner membrane NADH DH was approximately 10-fold higher than external-facing inner membrane NADPH DH activity for both wt and Atndi1 mutant mitochondria (Fig. 5, A and B), but both of these activity ratios were approximately 4-fold greater in mutant mitochondria. No significant differences were observed in outer membrane NADH and NADPH DH activities between wt and mutant mitochondria (Fig. 5, C and D).   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] To confirm the location of the AtNDI1 protein, in vitro import assays were carried out. The full-length cDNA for AtNDI1 was cloned and sequenced using primers located in the 5′- and 3′-UTRs of the gene. Comparison of the cloned sequence with that from the database confirmed that the complete cDNA for AtNDI1 had been successfully and completely amplified (data not shown). In vitro translation of the cDNA produced a precursor protein with an apparent molecular mass of 60 kD (Fig. 6, lane 1). Upon incubation of the precursor with mitochondria, a product with an apparent molecular mass of 56 kD was produced, which was insensitive to digestion by added protein K (PK) (Fig. 6, lanes 2 and 3). The generation of this product was sensitive to valinomycin in the import assay, indicating that the protein was imported into or across the inner membrane (Fig. 6, lanes 4 and 5). A similar pattern was observed with the AOX precursor and for TIM23 except that the latter has no cleavable presequence; thus, no change in apparent mass was observed upon import.   [[FIGURE]] To determine if the imported AtNDI1 was on the outside or inside of the inner membrane, we ruptured the outer membrane and prepared intermembrane space-depleted mitochondria to allow access of added PK to the outside of the inner membrane. Under these conditions, TIM23 was partially degraded indicated by a clear inner membrane-protected fragment, showing that the PK had gained access to intermembrane space components (Fig. 6, lane 3 verse 7). In contrast, under identical conditions, neither AOX nor AtDNI1 were digested by PK, indicating complete protection by the inner membrane. To further verify the intactness of our mitochondria and the rupture of the outer membrane, we carried out western-blot analysis with an outer membrane component (TOM20), an intermembrane space component (cytochrome c), and a matrix-located component (HSP70). It was observed that no significant rupture of the inner membrane had taken place under the conditions used because the HSP70 was intact in all the fractions. Likewise, with intact mitochondria, cytochrome c was protected from PK digestion. Most of this protein was lost from salt-washed intermembrane space-depleted mitochondria, and the small amount remaining was digested by PK with treatment of intermembrane space-depleted mitochondria. Finally, it was observed that TOM20 was accessible to PK in both mitochondria and intermembrane space-depleted mitochondria. The results together indicate that the PK treatment was sufficient to digest exposed proteins in the intermembrane space-depleted mitochondria. Thus, we conclude that the AtNDI1 was located on the inside of the inner membrane.
!~MM~! BLAST (CITATION) services were used to compare yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) NAD(P)H DH sequences (ScNDE1, accession no. Z47071; ScNDE2, accession no. Z74133; and ScNDI1, accession no. X61590) against the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative Munich Information Center for Protein Sequences database (MAtDB; http://www.mips.gsf.d/proj/thal/). All Arabidopsis proteins described are named according to their Arabidopsis Genome Initiative numbers, and the corresponding SwissProt or GenBank protein accession numbers are: Q8GWA1, AT1g07180; O80874, AT2g29990; Q9SKT7, AT2g20800; Q94BV7, AT4g05020; NP_567801, AT4g28220; and O65414, AT4g21490. Searches conducted were either BLASTN, comparing nucleotide sequences against nucleotide sequence databases, or BLASTX comparing nucleotide sequences translated in all reading frames against protein databases. Computer programs used to predict cellular location of proteins were: TargetP (CITATION), Psort (CITATION), and Predotar (http://www.inra.fr/predotar). The length of putative presequences was determined using TargetP (CITATION). For Clustal multiple protein sequence alignments, the parameters were: gap penalty 10 and gap length penalty 10, using a BLOSUM62 similarity matrix. All sequence manipulations were performed using GeneDoc software package (CITATION). Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (wt) was used for all experiments. BLAST analysis of the Syngenta (San Diego) T-DNA insertion mutation database indicated that seed line SAIL_779_G05 contained an insert in either At1g07180 and/or At2g29990 (CITATION). This seed line (SAIL_779_G05) was provided by Syngenta. wt and mutant plants were grown in a greenhouse, in soil, at 19°C, with 16 h of light/8 h of dark. Individual plants were isolated to ensure self-pollination. Seeds were harvested at 6 to 8 weeks. Arabidopsis seeds were surface sterilized in 70% (v/v) ethanol for 2 min, soaked in 15% (v/v) bleach for 15 min, and then rinsed four to five times in sterile water. Shaking culture growth medium (40 mL; one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog basal salt mixture salts [Sigma, Australia], B5 vitamins, 2% [w/v] Suc, and 2 mm MES [pH 5.8]) was inoculated with approximately 50 sterile seeds. Cultures were grown for 14 d, with 18 h of light/6 h of dark at 23°C, with shaking at 80 rpm. RNeasy and DNeasy kits (Qiagen USA, Valencia, CA) were used according to the manufacturer's protocols. DNA and RNA were run on a 1% (w/v) agarose gel to check quality and quantified spectrophotometrically. Amplification reactions were carried out using primers described in Table II. Total RNA (3 μg) was used to synthesize cDNA using Invitrogen Superscript II Reverse Transcriptase and Oligo(dT)12-18 according to the manufacturer's protocols. PCR was carried out in the presence of 1.5 mm MgCl2, 0.2 mm of each dNTP, 100 ng of forward primer and reverse primer, 0.5 units of Taq DNA polymerase (Qiagen USA), and 20 ng of cDNA, in a final volume of 20 μL. Amplifications were performed on a Cetus 2400 thermal cycler (Perkin-Elmer Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA) with the following cycling parameters: prestep at 95°C for 5 min; 20 cycles of 94°C for 30 s, 52°C for 30 s, and 72°C for 30 s; and an extension step of 72°C for 10 min. Amplification products (5-μL aliquots) were separated on a 1.5% (w/v) agarose gel. DNA size markers were run alongside the amplification products to determine fragment size. The full-length cDNA (including start and stop codons) was amplified using the AT6-5′-UTR-F and AT6-3′-UTR-R primers with Arabidopsis leaf RNA as the starting template (RT-PCR carried out as described above). The amplification product was cloned into pGEMT-Easy (Promega, Madison, WI) for sequencing and pGEM3Zf(-) for translation and import experiments, using standard protocols (CITATION). Mitochondria from 7-d-old soybean (Glycine max) cotyledons were isolated according to Day et al. (CITATION). Precursor protein was expressed in an in vitro transcription-translation system using T7 RNA polymerase using standard procedures (CITATION). Mitochondrial import assays were carried out as previously described (CITATION). In brief, 5 μL of precursor protein was added to 100 μL of purified mitochondria in a final volume of 200 μL under conditions that support import. After 20 min, the reaction was placed on ice and divided into two equal aliquots. One-half was treated with 50 μL of Proteinase K on ice for 30 min, after which 2 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride was added to inhibit further PK activity, and the mitochondria were pelleted by centrifugation in a microfuge for 3 min at 20,000g at 4°C. The mitochondrial pellets were resuspended in SDS gel sample buffer, proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE, and gels were dried and exposed to a BASTR2040 plate for 24 h and imaged according to the manufacturer's instructions using a BAS 2500 instrument (Fuji, Tokyo). A number of similar reactions were carried out at the same time to investigate the pattern of import observed: (a) Valinomycin was added to a final concentration of 1 μm before the commencement of the import assay, and (b) intermembrane space-depleted mitochondria were prepared from mitochondria after the import assay to test for the location of the imported protein. The addition of valinomycin tests for insertion into or across the inner membrane because it abolishes the membrane potential required for all proteins imported into or across the inner membrane (CITATION; CITATION). Intermembrane space-depleted mitochondria were prepared (i.e. the outer membrane was removed) to test if the imported protein was exposed on the outside of the inner membrane or the inside of the inner membrane. Two other proteins whose location in the inner membrane have been determined previously were used as controls. The translocase of the inner membrane subunit 23 (TIM23) is a four membrane-spanning inner membrane protein with N and C termini exposed in the intermembrane space (CITATION). AOX in an inner membrane protein is not accessible to protease as long as the inner membrane is intact (CITATION). Salt-washed intermembrane space-depleted mitochondria were prepared based on a procedure that removes most intermembrane space components in potato (Solanum tuberosum; CITATION). After the import assay, mitochondria were placed on ice and pelleted as outlined above. The mitochondrial pellet was resuspended in 10 μL of SEH buffer (250 mm Suc, 1 mm EDTA, and 10 mm HEPES-KOH [pH 7.4]), and 150 μL of 20 mm HEPES-KOH (pH 7.4) was added and mixed gently at 4°C for 15 min. Restoration of osmotic conditions was achieved by adding 25 μL of 2 m Suc, and 10 μL of 3 m KCL was added to promote release of intermembrane space protein from the inner membrane. The sample was then divided into two, and one lot was treated with PK and analyzed as outlined above for mitochondria. Western-blot analysis was carried out with antibodies to the outer membrane protein (TOM20, Dr. Hans-Peter Braun, University of Hannover, Germany), the intermembrane space protein cytochrome c (BD Biosciences, San Diego), and the matrix protein HSP70 (Stressgene, Victoria, BC, Canada). Mitochondria were extracted from approximately 20 to 30 g of cultured Arabidopsis seedlings (root and shoot), washed, and purified on discontinuous Percoll gradients essentially as described by Soole et al. (CITATION) but using 45%, 33%, 24%, and 13.5% (v/v) Percoll steps. Protein estimates were made according to Lowry et al. (CITATION). All assays were carried out spectrophotometrically using isolated, intact mitochondria in a standard reaction medium (0.25 m Suc, 0.01 m KH2PO4, 0.1 m TES, and 5 mm MgCl2 [pH 7.2]), unless otherwise stated. Succinate-DCPIP reductase was measured at 600 nm. Mitochondria were incubated on ice for 10 min with 20 mm succinate and 1 mm ATP. The rate was determined after the addition of 70 μm DCPIP, 0.3% (w/v) phenazine methosulphate, and azide. Rates were calculated using an extinction coefficient of 19.1 mm-1 cm-1. Malate-FeCN reductase was measured at 420 nm. Reactions were carried out at pH 6.8 in the presence of 1 mm NAD+, 10 mm malate, 10 mm pyruvate, 10 mm acetyl-CoA, thiamine pyrophosphate [to generate internal NAD(P)H via malate DH and malic enzyme], 1 mm KCN, 10 μm octyl gallate, and 0.9 mm FeCN. Rates were measured in the presence and absence of 25 μm rotenone. Butylmalonate (10 mm) was added at the end of the assay to inhibit malate transport across the membrane. Any residual rate was subtracted from the rate in the absence of the inhibitor to ensure that the NAD(P)H: FeCN reductase rate measured was not being generated by outer membrane or external-facing inner membrane NAD(P)H DHs. Rates were calculated using an extinction coefficient of 1.05 mm-1 cm-1. Rotenone-sensitive malate-FeCN reductase activity was determined by subtracting the rate in the presence of rotenone from the rate in the absence of rotenone. NAD(P)H-O2 was measured following NAD(P)H oxidation at 340 nm after the addition of 0.1 mm NADH or NADPH, 0.1 mm ADP, and 1 mm CaCl2. Rates were calculated using an extinction coefficient of 6.22 mm-1 cm-1 (for NADH and NADPH). NAD(P)H-cytochrome c reductase of the outer membrane was measured in the presence of 70 μm cytochrome c, 6 μm myxothiazol, and 1 mm KCN, following the addition of 1 mm NADH or NADPH, by monitoring the reduction of cytochrome c at 550 nm. Rates were calculated using an extinction coefficient of 19.8 mm-1 cm-1. All mitochondria preparations and assays were performed in triplicate. To normalize the data between mitochondrial preparations, the results for all assays are expressed as a ratio of the state 3 (+ADP) succinate:DCPIP reductase rate for the same mitochondrial preparation. The rates of succinate:DCPIP reductase activities were not significantly different between the wt and mutant mitochondrial preparations (P < 0.05, Mann Whitney t test).
