!~ABS~! Light is an important environmental cue to plants, and much of their physiology is influenced by light CITATION. The light signals that drive these responses are perceived by photoreceptors including the red/far-red responsive phytochromes (phyA-E) CITATION. In addition to direct effects, light also exerts its influence by modifying the rhythms generated by the circadian clock CITATION. In Arabidopsis thaliana, the molecular makeup of the interface between the central clock and its input/output pathways is not fully defined, but a major point of control is likely to be protein turnover mediated by the ubiquitin/26S proteasome system CITATION. To identify additional constituents of this interface, stable double-stranded RNA interference (RNAi) was used to reduce mRNA levels of rhythmically expressed candidate genes encoding putative components of E3 ubiquitin ligases (i.e., F box and RING finger proteins), followed by screening of the transgenic plants for circadian and light signaling defects. RNAi lines with diminished expression of the novel gene ATTENUATED FAR-RED RESPONSE (AFR) display phenotypes consistent with impaired phyA-mediated light signaling. Furthermore, AFR is a true SCF E3 ubiquitin ligase component. SCFAFR is expected to mediate the turnover of a repressor of phyA signaling, possibly to prepare the plant to receive light signals at dawn.
!~RES~! Genome-wide microarray analysis has demonstrated that the expression of well over 400 genes in Arabidopsis are under control of the circadian clock CITATION. We reasoned that amongst the hundreds of cycling genes there may lie either components of the circadian clock or important factors for input and output from the central oscillator. In the ubiquitin/26S proteasome system, a terminal E3 ubiquitin ligase complex is responsible for binding a target protein, which is specifically identified by either an F box or RING finger protein within this complex, and mediating the final transfer of ubiquitin onto this protein CITATION. With this in mind, stable RNAi plant lines were constructed to knock down the expression of several candidate genes encoding for putative F box and RING finger proteins. These transgenic plants were screened for phenotypes characteristic of light signaling or circadian defects, including elongated hypocotyls, alterations in circadian period or amplitude, and changes in time to flowering. Several independent transgenic lines harboring an RNAi construct targeting AFR, an unknown gene encoding an F box protein (At2g24540), displayed elongated hypocotyls in continuous red and far-red light (CITATION; see below). The effect of the RNAi construct on AFR expression in a total of ten independent lines was determined by Northern analysis, and three of the most severely effected were afr-R5, afr-R12, and afr-R13 (Figure 1A). In each line, the level of AFR message were reduced to between 20%–30% of that observed in wild-type (wt). Lines afr-R5 and afr-R13 were chosen for further analysis. Neither of these afr-R lines displayed obvious circadian defects (i.e., period length or amplitude), or alterations in flowering time when grown in either long or short days (F.G.H and S.A.K., unpublished data). To confirm that AFR expression was circadian regulated, RNA was harvested every 4 hr from wt seedlings that had been entrained in 12:12 light:dark (LD) conditions and then held in continuous white light conditions (LL) for the indicated period of time, and AFR expression analyzed by Northern blot CITATION . In complete agreement with previous microarray data CITATION (Figure S1), AFR is rhythmically expressed in LL with peak message levels occurring early in the subjective morning. AFR expression is also regulated by the phyA light-signaling pathway: exposure of dark grown, or etiolated, seedlings to far-red light induces expression of this gene in wt seedlings, but not in those lacking phyA function CITATION (F.G.H and S.A.K., unpublished data). Thus, AFR expression is controlled by both the circadian clock and light signals. The afr-R lines were distinguished from the other RNAi lines by the elongated hypocotyl phenotype they exhibited in continuous low fluence rates of red and far-red light, which was not apparent in etiolated seedlings CITATION . This phenotype was suggestive of a defect in the light responsiveness of the afr-R seedlings. To more fully define the light signaling deficit in the afr-R lines, hypocotyl length was determined for afr-R seedlings after exposure to a series of continuous red light fluence rates ranging from very low (0.01 μmol m-2 s-1) to moderately high (50 μmol m-2 s-1), and these were compared to wt and phyA-211, a null PHYA mutant CITATION. Under most of the conditions tested, both afr-R5 and afr-R13 showed reduced responsiveness to red light relative to wt. In addition, the response of the RNAi lines was largely similar to that observed for phyA-211, except at the intermediate fluence rates (1–10 μmol m-2 s-1) where the afr-R lines consistently had longer hypocotyls than either wt or phyA-211. Furthermore, the long hypocotyl phenotype of both afr-R5 and afr-R13 was established at the lowest fluence rate of red light tested (0.01 μmol m-2 s-1), comparable to the behavior of the phyA mutant. Since phyA is responsible for responses to very low fluence rates of red light, these data suggested that the afr-R lines were compromised in phyA signaling. Loss of AFR activity may also affect phytochrome B (phyB) signaling since the afr-R lines displayed a stronger hypocotyl phenotype than phyA-211 between 1–10 μmol m-2 s-1 of red light. However, mature afr-R plants do not have phenotypes typical of PHYB mutants, such as early flowering or elongated petioles during normal growth conditions CITATION (F.G.H and S.A.K., unpublished data). Therefore, we chose to further investigate the connection between AFR and phyA-dependent light responses. Since phyA is the sole photoreceptor for far-red light CITATION, the afr-R lines should also be limited in their capacity to respond to far-red light. When the afr-R lines were monitored for their responsiveness to continuous far-red light of various fluence rates, these mutants were clearly hyporesponsive relative to wt (Figure 2C). As was the case in red light, afr-R5 and afr-R13 had elongated hypocotyls at the lowest fluence rates tested (0.1–0.35 μmol m-2 s-1). afr-R13 also had a slight phenotype at 3.5 μmol m-2 s-1 far-red light that was lacking in afr-R5, consistent with the stronger overall phenotype of the former in red light and the lower AFR expression level in this line. As expected, the hypocotyl phenotypes displayed by the RNAi lines were generally less severe than in phyA-211, except at 0.1 μmol m-2 s-1 where both afr-R5 and afr-R13 had hypocotyls that were consistently longer than either phyA-211 or etiolated seedlings. These data establish that a reduction in AFR expression diminishes far-red light inhibition of hypocotyl elongation, presumably by affecting phyA-mediated signaling. To further demonstrate that AFR is involved in phyA signaling, the afr-R5 and afr-R13 seedlings from the hypocotyl assay were tested for chlorophyll production, or greening, following germination and growth in continuous far-red light. Seedlings that are mutant in phyA signaling accumulate chlorophyll once transferred from continuous far-red light to LL conditions, but wt seedlings given the same treatment are incapable of greening CITATION. Chlorophyll content in seedlings was determined as described by Moran CITATION for ten seedlings of each genotype that had been germinated and grown either in the dark or 5 μmol m-2 s-1 far-red light for 3 days and then transferred to LL conditions for 5 days. In this indirect measure of far-red light response, both of the afr-R lines grown in 5 μmol m-2 s-1 far-red light had 20% of the chlorophyll produced by the phyA-211 seedlings exposed to the same treatment (25 μg/seedling versus 140 μg/seedling), whereas wt contained only 5% of that found in the PHYA mutant (7 μg/seedling). Therefore, the afr-R lines appear to have a greater capacity to recover from continuous far-red light treatment, which presumably results from a reduction in phyA-mediated light signaling. Clearly, loss of AFR function negatively affects phyA-dependent signaling. The expression of many genes is directly controlled by phyA CITATION. For example, the expression of both CIRCADIAN CLOCK ASSOCIATED 1 (CCA1) and CHLOROPHYLL A/B BINDING PROTEIN 2 (CAB2) is rapidly induced in etiolated seedlings receiving a brief pulse of far-red light in a reaction known as acute induction CITATION. To test whether AFR was involved in the pathway that leads from light absorption by phyA to induction of gene expression, afr-R5 and afr-R13 were monitored for their capacity to rapidly induce the expression of CCA1 and CAB2 after a brief pulse of high fluence rate far-red light CITATION, and this response was compared to that of wt and phyA-211. Acute induction of CCA1 expression was monitored by Northern blot of total RNA purified from 15-day-old dark adapted afr-R, wt, and phyA-211 seedlings harvested either just prior to or 1 hr following treatment with 10 min of 50 μmol m-2 s-1 far-red light CITATION. In both RNAi lines, induction of CCA1 expression by far-red light was lower than that observed in wt seedlings: the normalized levels of CCA1 message increased by 1.8 ± 0.2 (±min/max) and 1.6 ± 0.1 (±min/max) -fold in afr-R5 and afr-R13, respectively, compared to a 2.5 ± 0.1 (±min/max) -fold change in wt. As expected, phyA-211 was essentially unresponsive to the far-red treatment, demonstrating that CCA1 induction under these conditions requires phyA activity. Thus, direct induction of CCA1 expression by phyA-mediated light signaling is diminished in the absence of normal AFR expression. To examine the effect that lack of AFR function had on the kinetics of light-induced gene expression, the AFR RNAi construct was transformed into wt plants harboring a bioluminescent reporter construct consisting of the CAB2 promoter fused to the luciferase coding sequence (CAB2::LUC) CITATION, which allows for real time measurement of gene expression. afr-R24 and afr-R26 are two of the RNAi lines produced in this background, and AFR expression is reduced to 20% and 60% of wt, respectively, in these lines (Figure S2). afr-R24, afr-R26, and wt seedlings were dark adapted, and these seedlings were exposed to a 5 minute pulse of 50 μmol m-2 s-1 far-red light to induce expression from the CAB2::LUC reporter. The bioluminescence of these seedlings was measured for 20 min every 30 min for 1–2 hr prior to light treatment to the establish baseline CAB2::LUC expression and at the same interval for 12 hr following the light pulse CITATION. As expected, CAB2::LUC expression was induced by approximately 6.5-fold in wt within 2.5 hr after the far-red treatment CITATION; on the other hand, this response was limited in both afr-R lines, with each line displaying an approximate 4-fold increase in reporter expression. Line afr-R24 was most affected: the time required to reach peak bioluminescence was delayed by 30 min, and maximal CAB2::LUC expression reached only about 70% of the wt response. The afr-R26 line had similar response kinetics as wt, but maximal bioluminescence was reduced to the same degree as observed for afr-R24. In both afr-R lines, the peak of CAB2::LUC expression was more broad and less well defined than in wt. Comparable results were obtained for 4-day-old etiolated seedlings that received the same far-red light treatment (data not shown). These experiments support the idea that AFR is part of the signal transduction pathway that couples light perception by phyA to changes in gene expression. Arabidopsis plants in which oat phyA is overexpressed (phyAOX) are hyperresponsive to red light and far-red light CITATION. One manifestation of this elevated light sensitivity is that phyAOX seedlings display extremely short hypocotyls relative to wt. To test whether AFR is directly downstream of phyA, phyAOX plants were crossed to either wt or the afr-R lines. The expectation was that a reduction in AFR activity in the progeny of these crosses will partially alleviate the hypersensitive photomorphogenic phenotype typical of phyAOX seedlings. Since both the phyAOX and afr-R constructs produced dominant traits, the F1 progeny from these crosses were assayed for a reduction in the phyAOX hypocotyl phenotype after 4 days of growth in very low fluence rate red light (0.01 μmol m-2 s-1; Figure 3A). Under these assay conditions, three separate crosses between phyAOX and wt produced progeny with slightly elongated hypocotyls relative to the phyAOX seedlings (mean normalized hypocotyl length of 0.22 ± 0.01 (±SEM) for phyAOX versus 0.28 ± 0.01 (±SEM) for phyAOX:WT F1s), which is expected due to a reduction in gene dosage in the heterozygous F1 seedlings. The crosses involving the afr-R females produced seedlings with hypocotyls that were significantly longer than both the phyAOX parent and the F1 seedlings from the phyAOX:WT crosses: the mean normalized hypocotyl length for the crosses to afr-R5 and afr-R13 was 0.38 ± 0.01 (±SEM) and 0.40 ± 0.01 (±SEM), respectively. The p value for a one-way ANOVA test of the variance between these values was p < 0.01 for the phyAOX:wt crosses compared to each of the afr-R crosses (CITATION , columns marked with *). Therefore, loss of AFR function reduces the total signal flux that passes through the phyA signaling network. Since phyA is subject to light-dependent ubiquitin-directed degradation CITATION, one potential explanation for the phyA signaling deficiency in the afr-R lines is that loss of AFR function either affects the steady-state levels of phyA or contributes to a more rapid turn over of phyA following light exposure. To examine this possibility, the levels of phyA in dark-adapted wt and afr-R5 seedlings were determined before and after these plants were exposed to continuous red light of 50 μmol m-2 s-1 over a period of 3 hr CITATION. The phyA levels in the samples taken just before light exposure were comparable between wt and afr-R5. Moreover, the kinetics of phyA degradation following transfer of the seedlings to light were similar in both backgrounds. Therefore, the reduced capacity of the AFR RNAi lines to respond to far-red light is not due to an alteration in either the steady-state level of phyA or its degradation rate following light exposure. Thus, AFR is a component of the phyA signaling pathway and since its absence impairs photomorphogenic responses, AFR is likely to act as a positive factor in this system. Examination of the AFR coding sequence revealed that it was made up of a single exon of 1231 base pairs, which encodes a 372 amino acid protein. AFR is largely composed of a predicted N-terminal F box domain and two or more C-terminal Kelch repeats (see Figure S3 for an alignment of the amino acid sequence of the AFR F box domain with the pFam consensus F box sequence and several known Arabidopsis F box proteins). Furthermore, the amino acid sequence of AFR does not contain an obvious nuclear localization sequence; in agreement, a fusion of AFR with yellow fluorescent protein (either N- or C-terminal) was distributed throughout transiently transformed tobacco BY2 cells and was not concentrated in a specific subcellular compartment (F.G.H, P.A. Mas, and S.A.K., data not shown). The presence of an F box in AFR suggested that it is a part of an SCF (for SKP1, Cullin, and F box protein) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, where the F box is important for recognition of its cognate SCF complex. The Kelch repeats, on the other hand, presumably provide the necessary sites to bind a specific target protein, since Kelch repeats form a β-propeller structure that is typically involved in protein-protein interactions CITATION. To confirm that AFR is an actual F box protein and to identify molecular partners of AFR, an Arabidopsis yeast two-hybrid cDNA library was screened with a bait consisting of full-length AFR fused to the LexA DNA binding domain (AFR-FL). A strongly interacting clone identified from this screen was a prey consisting of the full-length cDNA for Arabidopsis SKP1 (ASK1) CITATION . ASK1 is one of several SKP proteins present in Arabidopsis that are subunits of E3 ubiquitin ligases, and this protein interacts with many different types of F box proteins CITATION. To confirm that the interaction between AFR and ASK1 required the AFR F box, and therefore represented a true molecular partnership, the ASK1 prey was tested for interaction with either the AFR-FL bait or a construct encoding only the C-terminal Kelch repeats of AFR (AFR-Kelch) CITATION. Only the AFR-FL bait construct interacted with the ASK1 prey. Thus, the interaction between AFR and ASK1 requires the F box in the former protein, which is consistent with these two proteins acting together in an E3 ubiquitin ligase to target downstream proteins for degradation by the 26S proteasome. Based on the hyporesponsive phenotype of the afr-R lines, the target of AFR is expected to be a repressor phyA light signaling. So far, only two repressors of phyA signaling have been identified in Arabidopsis, EMPFINDLICHER IM DUNKELROTEN LICHT 1 (EID1) CITATION and SUPRESSOR OF PHY A (SPA1) CITATION, which appear to have distinct roles in high and low fluence responses, respectively. Experiments to find the target of AFR are currently in progress, and these should help to define the phyA light signaling pathway in one of two ways: (1) by revealing a connection between AFR and known components of this pathway, such as SPA1 and EID1 or (2) by highlighting a new factor that possibly acts as a repressor of phyA-mediated light signaling. The circadian clock in Arabidopsis is well known to participate in regulating, or gating, direct light inputs through out the day and, as a result, plants are more sensitive to light treatment during the day than at night CITATION. The early morning timing of AFR expression suggests a role for the SCFAFR complex in preparing the plant for light exposure by eliminating a repressor of light signaling that has accumulated in the dark. In this way, AFR may play an important role in gating light responsiveness early in the day, thereby ensuring that the plant is receptive to light signals at dawn.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia was used as wt. Except where indicated, all seedlings were grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium CITATION with 0.8% agar at 22°C in Percival growth chambers equipped with cool white fluorescent lights or far-red LED lamps (for the far-red hypocotyl length fluence response curves). Red light was produced by portable LED lamps (Quantum Devices) without additional filters, as was the far-red light used in the acute-induction experiments. Supplemental data including detailed explanations of all methods and three additional figures that (1) compare the LL AFR expression data from Northern and microarray experiments, (2) show the AFR expression level in afr-R24 and afr-R26, and (3) display an alignment of the amino acid sequence of the AFR F box domain to the Pfam consensus F box sequence and the corresponding domains in closely related Arabidopsis F box proteins is available at http://www.current-biology.com/cgi/content/full/13/23/2091/DC1/.
