!~ABS~! Substrate specificity of condensing enzymes is a predominant factor determining the nature of fatty acyl chains synthesized by type II fatty acid synthase (FAS) enzyme complexes composed of discrete enzymes. The gene (mtKAS) encoding the condensing enzyme, β-ketoacyl-[acyl carrier protein] (ACP) synthase (KAS), constituent of the mitochondrial FAS was cloned from Arabidopsis thaliana, and its product was purified and characterized. The mtKAS cDNA complemented the KAS II defect in the E. coli CY244 strain mutated in both fabB and fabF encoding KAS I and KAS II, respectively, demonstrating its ability to catalyze the condensation reaction in fatty acid synthesis. In vitro assays using extracts of CY244 containing all E. coli FAS components, except that KAS I and II were replaced by mtKAS, gave C4-C18 fatty acids exhibiting a bimodal distribution with peaks at C8 and C14-C16. Previously observed bimodal distributions obtained using mitochondrial extracts appear attributable to the mtKAS enzyme in the extracts. Although the mtKAS sequence is most similar to that of bacterial KAS IIs, sensitivity of mtKAS to the antibiotic cerulenin resembles that of E. coli KAS I. In the first or priming condensation reaction of de novo fatty acid synthesis, purified His-tagged mtKAS efficiently utilized malonyl-ACP, but not acetyl-CoA as primer substrate. Intracellular targeting using green fluorescent protein, Western blot, and deletion analyses identified an N-terminal signal conveying mtKAS into mitochondria. Thus, mtKAS with its broad chain length specificity accomplishes all condensation steps in mitochondrial fatty acid synthesis, whereas in plastids three KAS enzymes are required. 
!~RES~! Isolation of a cDNA Encoding mtKAS—The T1O3.5 sequence in GenBank™ was previously suggested to code for a KAS participating in mitochondrial fatty acid synthesis in A. thaliana (CITATION). To confirm this hypothesis, we cloned and characterized a cDNA, designated mtKAS, corresponding to T1O3.5. The mtKAS cDNA contained an open reading frame of 1,383 bp encoding a polypeptide of 461 amino acids (molecular mass 49,379 Da). Comparison of the sequence of the cDNA and T1O3.5 revealed that mtKAS is composed of 14 exons and 13 introns. Southern blot analysis confirmed that mtKAS is a single-copy gene in the A. thaliana genome (data not shown), as predicted from the genome sequence. The deduced amino acid sequence of mtKAS is compared with those of KAS I and KAS II of E. coli and A. thaliana plastids in Fig. 2. Residues 28-461 of mtKAS share 36 and 49% identities with E. coli KAS I and II, and 39 and 40% with A. thaliana KAS I and II, respectively. Comparison with other KAS I and II isozymes of bacteria and plant plastids disclosed greater identities with bacterial KAS II enzymes (∼50%) than with bacterial KAS I and plant plastidial KAS I and II enzymes (∼40%). Potential active site residues, Cys-209 and two histidines, His-350 and His-389, requisite for catalysis are present in the mtKAS sequence, placing it in the CHH group of KAS enzymes to which KAS I and II belong (CITATION). Lys-384 is another residue present in the active site and peculiar to the CHH group of KAS enzymes (CITATION, CITATION). The mtKAS sequence is distinguished from the other sequences (Fig. 2) by an insertion of 17 residues, which occurs in a 3-residue β-strand forming part of the capping region (CITATION). An analogous insert is present in all other mitochondrial KAS sequences consisting of 4-8 residues (data not shown). The 27-residue N-terminal extension of A. thaliana mtKAS relative to E. coli KAS II has characteristics of a mitochondrial transit peptide, i.e. an overall positive charge resulting from the relatively high proportion of arginines and the lack of negatively charged residues.    [[FIGURE]] To probe the evolutionary relationship of mtKAS to other KAS enzymes, a phylogenetic tree was constructed based on the amino acid sequences of CHH KAS isozymes from bacteria, plants, fungi, and animals excluding N-terminal extensions. The resulting tree (see Supplemental Fig. 1, available in the on-line version of this article) confirmed the close relationship between two distinct groups of plastidial enzymes, and that they were more closely related to bacterial KAS II than KAS I isozymes as previously noted (CITATION). Five of the mtKAS sequences form a fifth group that is even more closely related to bacterial KAS II enzymes than the plastidial enzymes are. The sixth mtKAS, CEM1 from S. cerevisiae, Sc-mt, was interesting, as it was not included in any of the five groups.  Complementation of an E. coli fabF Mutant—To confirm that mtKAS cDNA encodes a functional KAS enzyme, the Arabidopsis mtKAS cDNA was expressed in a heterologous system, namely the E. coli mutant, CY244, which lacks KAS II activity encoded by fabF and has a temperature-sensitive KAS I encoded by fabB (Fig. 1B). Thus, CY244 grows and synthesizes both saturated and unsaturated fatty acids at 30 °C but not at 42 °C. As shown in Fig. 3A, when the CY244 mutant was transformed with the pKK233-2 plasmid, the resulting transformants did not grow at 42 °C. By contrast, transformants with pmtKAS-Δ20, which encodes the mtKAS lacking 20 N-terminal residues, grew at 42 °C, but only on the plate supplemented with the unsaturated fatty acid, oleic acid. The same result was observed when CY244 was transformed with pfabF carrying the wild type fabF gene. These observations infer that pmtKAS-Δ20, just as pfabF, restores the activity to synthesize only saturated fatty acids. Transformants with pfabB carrying the wild type fabB gene grew at 42 °C, even in the absence of oleic acid, as expected. Complementation of the fabF defect in CY244 clearly demonstrated that the mtKAS cDNA encodes an E. coli KAS II-like protein, i.e. mtKAS is able to elongate saturated acyl chains from 4 to at least 16 carbons. Whether it is also able to extend C16:1 to C18:1 (Fig. 1B) is not revealed by the present study.    [[FIGURE]] To examine the effect of the N-terminal extension on the activity of mtKAS, complementation tests with CY244 were carried out with mtKAS cDNAs encoding mtKAS having a full-length N-terminal extension and four N-terminal deletions. Comparative growth of transformants is shown in Fig. 3B. Transformants with pmtKAS-Δ0 (full-length), pmtKAS-Δ20, and pmtKAS-Δ27 grew well, whereas those with pmtKAS-Δ30 and pmtKAS-Δ34 showed at best only the same faint growth exhibited by the empty vector pKK233-2 on oleic acid containing medium at 42 °C. Western blot analysis of soluble extracts of all the transformants readily detected mtKAS proteins corresponding in size to Δ0, Δ20, and Δ27, but none in the vector Δ30 and Δ34 extracts (data not shown). These results demonstrate that the 27 N-terminal residues of mtKAS are not necessary for the function of mtKAS, and that when 30 or more residues are deleted the translated protein is unstable. Thus, for a functional mtKAS, at least three residues need to precede Val-33, which corresponds to the first residue of the first β-strand in the α-β-α-β-α core structure of the E. coli KAS I and KAS II enzymes (CITATION, CITATION). Our experimental results reveal that the PSORT prediction of a cleavage site between Gly-47 and Val-48 for the Arabidopsis mtKAS target sequence, which is just after the loop following the first β-sheet in the core structure, is incorrect. Presumably the analogous PSORT predictions for the deduced sequences of human and mouse mtKAS are also incorrect.  Synthesis of Acyl-ACPs by mtKAS in Crude Extracts of E. coli CY244—To investigate the ability of the mtKAS to carry out the condensation reactions, crude soluble protein extracts prepared from the CY244 transformants grown at 42 °C in the presence of oleic acid were used for elongation assays. The control transformant with the vector pKK233-2 was grown at 30 °C. Acetyl-CoA and [2-14C]malonyl-CoA were incubated as potential substrates with each extract. Labeled acyl-ACPs produced during a 30-min incubation at 42 °C were separated by electrophoresis with a polyacrylamide gel containing 2 m (Fig. 4A) or 4 m (Fig. 4B) urea, electroblotted to PVDF membrane, and visualized by autoradiography. Only acetyl- and malonyl-ACPs were detected in the extract of the vector control (Fig. 4A, lane 1). Malonyl-ACP was generated by transfer of the malonyl group from malonyl-CoA to ACP by MCAT, and acetyl-ACP by decarboxylation of malonyl-ACP by KAS III. Both MCAT and KAS III are present in E. coli soluble protein extracts. The pmtKAS-Δ20 transformant extract, by contrast, synthesized a series of saturated acyl-ACPs with up to 18 carbons (Fig. 4B, lane 2). Of these, medium chain C8- and C14-ACPs plus the long chain C16-ACP were detected as major bands, resulting in a bimodal distribution. With the pfabB and pfabF transformant extracts, as expected, predominantly long chain acyl-ACPs, both saturated and unsaturated, were produced (Fig. 4B, lanes 3 and 4). These results demonstrate that mtKAS can catalyze many of the condensation reactions in fatty acid synthesis, and that it is compatible with all relative components of the E. coli FAS. Whether mtKAS is able to carry out the first condensation step to yield C4-ACP was unresolved, however, because of the presence of E. coli KAS III in the extracts.    [[FIGURE]] Cerulenin, known as an irreversible inhibitor of type II FAS, binds to the active site cysteine residue of KAS I and II enzymes, and blocks their condensation activities (CITATION, CITATION). Although plastidial and bacterial KAS I enzymes are more sensitive to cerulenin than KAS IIs, the structural basis for this difference is not yet known (CITATION). To check the effect of cerulenin on the activity of mtKAS, extracts of CY244 transformants were incubated in the presence of 0-10 nmol of cerulenin before adding the substrates. As shown in Fig. 4C (lane 2 versus lane 3), mtKAS activity was almost completely inhibited by the addition of 1 nmol of cerulenin. Thus, it is at least as sensitive to cerulenin as KAS I of E. coli (lanes 5-7 versus lanes 2-4). Treating E. coli KAS II with 5 nmol of cerulenin (lane 9) had a little effect on saturated fatty acid synthesis compared with that on mtKAS and E. coli KAS I (lanes 4 and 7) as expected. Even with 10 nmol of cerulenin, some elongation still occurred (lane 10). The present results disclose that mtKAS is very sensitive to cerulenin and imply that Cys-209 is essential for catalysis.  The mtKAS and E. coli KAS I and II proteins expressed in CY244 were unstable in the crude extracts during storage at 0 °C in break buffer, which lacks glycerol. This was most marked for mtKAS, which initially synthesized prominent amounts of C14 and C16 acyl chains (Fig. 4B, lane 2). After being stored for a week at -20 °C, however, mtKAS synthesized predominantly C8 acyl chains (Fig. 4C, lane 2), an ability that was maintained for at least 8 weeks of storage (data not shown).  The First Condensation Reaction Carried out by mtKAS—To examine the ability of mtKAS to carry out the first condensation reaction, the mtKAS-Δ20 protein was purified with aid of a His tag. This is the first report to our knowledge of a plant CHH type KAS being readily purified as an active enzyme. As shown in Fig. 5A, the activity assay was designed to reveal whether mtKAS could condense two C2-units to give a C4 acyl chain, and if so whether the primer substrate was activated by CoA as characteristic for KAS III or by ACP as characteristic for KAS I and II. In the course of the assay, malonyl-ACP is generated from malonyl-CoA by MCAT. Decarboxylation of malonyl-ACP to acetyl-ACP, the donor substrate, is the second part of the tripartite KAS reaction. Decarboxylation assays using similar concentrations of mtKAS as in the present assay revealed an activity similar to that exhibited by E. coli KAS I (data not shown and Ref. CITATION). Acetyl- and malonyl-ACP standards are shown in lanes 1, 2, 10, and 11. In the final step of the KAS reaction, β-ketobutyryl (β-keto C4)-ACP is synthesized if labeled malonyl-CoA is present in the reaction mixture as illustrated for mtKAS (lanes 3-7). The addition of KR and NADPH to the assay resulted in the reduction of the β-keto C4-ACP to β-hydroxybutyryl (β-OH C4)-ACP (lanes 3-5). The latter was not formed if either KR or the cofactor NADPH upon which it is dependent was omitted (lanes 6 and 7). Why the reduction is not more efficient is unknown. A 4-fold increase in KR had no effect on the reduction of β-OH C4-ACP (data not shown). The presence or absence of unlabeled acetyl-CoA had no noticeable effect on the production of β-OH C4-ACP (lanes 3-5), and incorporation of radioactivity into β-OH C4-ACP from [2-14C]acetyl-CoA was not detected under the tested conditions (lanes 8 and 9). These results demonstrate that (i) mtKAS possesses the ability to carry out the first condensation reaction and (ii) malonyl-ACP is a sole carbon source for the first condensation reaction catalyzed by mtKAS, i.e. it provides both the primer and donor substrates.    [[FIGURE]] The same series of assays was carried out using a purified His-tagged E. coli KAS II (CITATION) in place of mtKAS (Fig. 5B). Two interesting differences emerged. First, only traces of β-ketoacyl C4-ACP were detectable as predicted from its known instability (lanes 3-5). Second, acetyl-CoA can serve as the primer substrate for KAS II albeit inefficiently, as witnessed by a minor amount of β-OH C4-ACP (lanes 8 and 9). This band was absent if either KR or NADPH was omitted from the assay mixture (lanes 6 and 7).  Expression of mtKAS in A. thaliana—The size of the transcript of the mtKAS gene was checked by Northern blot analysis using poly(A)+ RNA prepared from 2-week-old A. thaliana leaves. A single hybridizing signal was detected at the position of 1,600 nucleotides, which was close to the size of the 1,566 nucleotides of the cloned mtKAS cDNA (data not shown). This discrepancy in size presumably arises from the absence of the 3′ downstream region and poly(A)+ tail in the cDNA.  To estimate the expression level of the mtKAS gene in organs, RT-PCR analysis was carried out using total RNAs prepared from leaves, roots, and flowers. In all tested organs, a DNA fragment corresponding to mtKAS cDNA was detected at relatively similar levels (Fig. 6, upper panel) as was the control gene for α-tubulin (Fig. 6, lower panel). These results suggest that the mtKAS gene is expressed at the same level in these three organs.    [[FIGURE]] Intracellular Localization of mtKAS in A. thaliana—As mentioned above, mtKAS has a putative mitochondrial transit peptide on its N terminus, implying its presence in this organelle. To explore this possibility, we prepared cytosolic (Fig. 7, lane 1), microsomal (lane 2), chloroplast (lane 3), and mitochondrial (lane 4) fractions from A. thaliana leaves and investigated the intracellular localization by Western blot analysis using an antibody against mtKAS. A single band at ∼47 kDa corresponding in size to the mtKAS lacking ∼20 residues was detected only in the mitochondrial fraction (Fig. 7, upper panel). To check the purity of the mitochondrial proteins, the same fractions were analyzed with an antibody against pea H-protein, a subunit of the glycine decarboxylase complex (glycine cleavage system) present in mitochondrial matrix (CITATION). The lower panel in Fig. 7 shows that H-protein was primarily in the mitochondrial fraction. These results support the contention that mtKAS is located in mitochondria.    [[FIGURE]] To provide further evidence of the mtKAS target site, we prepared a recombinant plasmid that encodes the 50 N-terminal residues of mtKAS fused to GFP. This recombinant plasmid, pmtKAStp-GFP, was introduced into BY-2 tobacco cells by particle bombardment. As a control, the same construct lacking the mtKAS sequence (pGFP) was also introduced. The transformed BY-2 cells were examined with a laser scanning microscope. As shown in Fig. 8, the green fluorescence (panels A and B) represents the site where GFP is present, and the red fluorescence (panel C) from Mito Tracker Red identifies the mitochondria. In the cells in which pmtKAStp-GFP was introduced, the green fluorescence from GFP overlapped extensively with the red fluorescence from mitochondria (panel D), indicating that the mtKAS-GFP fusion protein was targeted into mitochondria in BY-2 cells. By contrast, in the cells in which pGFP was introduced, the green fluorescence from GFP was observed in the cytoplasm and nucleus (Fig. 8A). These results demonstrate that mtKAS is located in mitochondria and suggest that the N-terminal region of mtKAS functions as a mitochondrial transit peptide.    [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plant Material—A. thaliana (Columbia ecotype) was grown on vermiculite under continuous light at a photon flux density of 40 μmol m-2 s-1 at 25 °C. Bright yellow-2 (BY-2) cells of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) were obtained from Dr. T. Nagata (University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan). The cells were grown in modified Linsmaier and Skoog's medium as described by Nagata et al. (CITATION).  Construction of a cDNA Library and Cloning of the mtKAS cDNA Using Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)—Poly(A)+ RNAs were isolated from leaves and roots of 3-week-old A. thaliana with an mRNA purification kit (Amersham Biosciences). The cDNA library was constructed with cDNAs, which were prepared from the poly(A)+ RNAs with a cDNA synthesis kit (Amersham Biosciences), and a phage vector λgt11 (Stratagene) according to the protocols from the manufacturer. λ phage DNAs prepared from this library served as templates for PCR. The primers, 5′-TCCGCTTAAACCGCTTCATC-3′ and 5′-TGCTGTCCTAACTAACATCT-3′, were designed to amplify the central region of a predicted mtKAS cDNA derived from T103.5. The 3′-terminal region of mtKAS cDNA was amplified using the primers, 5′-TTGACACCAGACCAACTGGTAATG-3′ and 5′-TCTTCGACAAGAGGTTCATGCCTT-3′, that anneal to the cloning site of λgt11 and to an internal region of the deduced mtKAS cDNA, respectively. The 5′-terminal region of mtKAS cDNA was amplified by the 5′-rapid amplification of cDNA ends method (5′-Full RACE Core Set from Takara). The phosphorylated primer, 5′-GCAACTGCCTTAGAG-3′, was used for synthesis of cDNA using total RNAs isolated from A. thaliana leaves with a purification kit (RNeasy plant mini kit from Qiagen). The following two sets of primers were used for the first and second PCR in the 5′-rapid amplification of cDNA ends, respectively: (i) 5′-TTTGTGCCTTATGGATCAAACCCT-3′ and 5′-GCAGCAACTTTAGAAGAAAGCTGA-3′, (ii) 5′-GGTGAATTTGATGAAGCCCT-3′ and 5′-AGAGTCAATCCTCTAATCCC-3′. Each of the three amplified fragments was subcloned into pCR2.1 (Original TA cloning kit; Invitrogen), and its nucleotide sequence was determined. Combining the nucleotide sequences of the 5′-, internal, and 3′-regions gave a full-length cDNA of the predicted A. thaliana mtKAS of 1,566 bp.  Homology Search and Phylogenetic Analysis—Sequences homologous to the predicted sequence of mtKAS were retrieved using a BLASTP program at National Center for Biotechnology Information (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov). These sequences from bacteria, plant plastids, yeast, fungi, and animals were aligned with that of mtKAS using CLUSTAL X version 1.8 (CITATION), followed by adjustment with the naked eye. The known or deduced N-terminal regions corresponding to transit peptides and internal gaps were removed prior to analysis. Distance matrices were generated with the PROTDIST program in PHYLIP version 3.573c (CITATION) using the PAM matrix of Dayhoff et al. (CITATION). A phylogenetic tree was constructed by using the neighbor-joining method (CITATION) of the PHYLIP NEIGHBOR program.  Construction of Plasmids Expressing KAS Genes—Deletions of the full-length mtKAS cDNA were created using PCR with specific primers designed to remove varying numbers of residues from the N-terminal end of the mtKAS protein. The 5′-specific primers, 5′-CATGCCATGGCGACATCTAATCTCCGT-3′, 5′-CATGCCATGGGGATCTCTACTTCTTCTTCTTATCATTCA-3′, and 5′-CATGCCATGGGGCATTCACATCGCCGTGTTG-3′, and the 3′-specific primer 5′-AACTGCAGTTAGATAGAGGCAAAGAGCAAAG-3′ were used for PCR. In constructing these primers, the sequences 5′-CATGCCATGG-3′ or 5′-AACTGCAG-3′, including an NcoI site and a PstI site, respectively, were added to the 5′ end of each primer. The obtained PCR products were digested with NcoI and PstI, and ligated into the same sites of the expression vector pKK233-2 (GenBank™ accession no. X70478). The obtained plasmids were designated pmtKAS-Δ0, pmtKAS-Δ20, and pmtKAS-Δ27, where the numbers after Δ represent the number of deleted amino acids. Except for pmtKAS-Δ0, all the constructs code for an extra Gly as the second residue. The pmtKAS-Δ27 was used to fabricate an additional deletion mutant, pmtKAS-Δ30, using the QuikChange site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene) as described previously (CITATION). The pmtKAS-Δ30 then served as a template for construction of pmtKAS-Δ34. The following primers plus their complements, 5′-CACACAGGAAACAGACCATGGGGCGCCGTGTTGTTGTCACTGG-3′ and 5′-CACACAGGAAACAGACCATGGGGGTCACTGGTCTAGGCATCG-3′, were used. Confirmation that the five desired constructs had been obtained was ascertained by complete sequencing.  The E. coli fabF gene (CITATION, CITATION) encoding KAS II was amplified by PCR using the primer set 5′-CATGCCATGGTGTCTAAGCGTCGTGTAGTTG-3′ and 5′-AACTGCAGAGGGTGGCAAATGACAACTTAG-3′. Genomic DNA extracted from E. coli JM109 strain functioned as the template. The PCR product was cloned into pKK233-2 as described above to give the plasmid pfabF with an extra residue, Met, preceding the N-terminal Val. The plasmid pDM4, designated pfabB in this study, which includes the E. coli fabB gene (CITATION) encoding KAS I was extracted from the strain DM86/pDM4 (CITATION).  Complementation of the Double Mutant E. coli Strain CY244—The E. coli strain CY244 bears mutations in both the fabB and fabF genes (CITATION). The fabB15 allele (GenBank™ accession no. CAA09934) codes for KAS I with an amino acid substitution (Ala-329 to Val) that results in temperature sensitivity, whereas the fabF1 allele encodes two amino acid substitutions (Ser-220 and Gly-262 to Asn and Met, respectively) that result in lack of KAS II activity (CITATION). The control plasmid pKK233-2 plus the plasmids pmtKAS, pfabB, and pfabF were transformed into CY244. Transformants were selected by plating on Luria-Bertani (LB) plates supplemented with 100 μg ml-1 ampicillin at 30 °C. Resulting colonies were then streaked onto LB plates supplemented with 100 μg ml-1 ampicillin and either 0 or 100 μg ml-1 oleic acid (C18:1cis Δ9, Sigma), and incubated at 30 or 42 °C for 3 days. A stock solution of K+-oleate in ethanol was diluted with 10% Tergitol Nonidet P-40 (Sigma) and added to LB medium to give 100 μg ml-1 oleic acid and 0.1% Tergitol.  Elongation Assay for KAS Enzyme Activity—Transformants of CY244 were grown in liquid LB medium supplemented with 100 μg ml-1 ampicillin and 100 μg ml-1 oleic acid at 42 °C, except that the pKK233-2 transformant was grown at 30 °C. Cells collected from 10-ml overnight cultures by centrifugation were suspended in 1 ml of cold break buffer consisting of 25 mm Tris-HCl (pH 7.8), 300 mm NaCl, 10 mm dithiothreitol (DTT), 5 mm EDTA, and 1 mg ml-1 lysozyme. Cells were ruptured by sonicating twice for 20 s on ice. After centrifugation at 27,500 × g for 20 min, the supernatant was recovered as the soluble protein extract. To visualize the presence of KAS proteins, the soluble protein extracts were subjected to SDS-PAGE followed by either Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining or transfer to a PVDF membrane for Western blot analysis with antibodies against mtKAS (see below), plus KAS I and KAS II of E. coli (CITATION).  A reaction mixture (90 μl) containing 10 μm E. coli ACP (Sigma), 10 μm acetyl-CoA, 60 μm malonyl-CoA, 0.76 μm [2-14C]malonyl-CoA (2.2 TBq/mol, PerkinElmer Life Sciences), 1 mm NADPH, 1 mm NADH, and 50 mm potassium phosphate buffer (pH 6.8) was incubated with 10 μl of the soluble protein extract at 42 °C for 30 min in a shaking water bath. The reactions were stopped by addition of 1 ml of cold 5% trichloroacetic acid. The precipitated acyl-ACPs were collected by centrifugation, resolved by 1, 2, 3, or 4 m urea-PAGE on the basis of the chain length and presence of double bonds, electroblotted to a PVDF membrane, and subjected to autoradiography using a PhosphorImager as described (CITATION). 14C-Labeled standards included C16-ACP (CITATION), acetyl- and malonyl-ACPs prepared as described below, plus C12-ACP prepared using a labeled C12 fatty acid (Amersham Biosciences) and acyl-ACP synthase purified as described (CITATION) according to Rock and Cronan (CITATION). Identity of additional acyl-ACPs was deduced based on previous work (CITATION).  The sensitivity of the expressed KAS enzymes to cerulenin was investigated as previously detailed (CITATION) with some modifications. Cerulenin (Sigma) (0-10 nmol) dissolved in ethanol was transferred to Eppendorf tubes and dried under vacuum. Soluble protein extracts (10 μl) were added to the tubes. After standing on ice for 15 min, 90 μl of the reaction mixture was added and the elongation assay carried out as described above.  Characterization of the First Condensation Reaction—The mtKAS-Δ20 cDNA was re-cloned into pQE-30 (Qiagen). This resulted in an N-terminal sequence in which Met-Gly was replaced with Met-Arg-Gly-Ser plus a His tag of six residues followed by Gly-Ser-Met (CITATION). Expression and protein purification using Ni-NTA technology were carried out as detailed previously (CITATION, CITATION) with overnight induction and using only the lysozyme and sonication steps to open the cells. To determine the ability of the Ni-NTA-purified mtKAS enzyme to initiate fatty acid synthesis by joining two C2-units together in the first condensation reaction, an assay was developed. The assay also reveals whether the primer substrate is acetyl-CoA or acetyl-ACP. ACP and MCAT were pre-incubated (CITATION) in the presence of DTT and then mixed with the other components of the assay mixture. The 100-μl assay mixture consisting of 10 μm ACP, 0-120 μm acetyl-CoA ± 22-132 kdpm [1-14C]acetyl-CoA (Amersham Biosciences, specific activity 2.18 GBq/mmol), 10.1 μm malonyl-CoA ± 10 kdpm [2-14C]malonyl-CoA (PerkinElmer Life Sciences, specific activity 2.2 GBq/mmol), 1 mm DTT, with or without 1 mm NADPH in 50 mm potassium phosphate buffer (pH 6.8) as well as 1.2 μg of Ni-NTA purified mtKAS or KAS II of E. coli, with or without 2.5 μg of KR (CITATION) and MCAT was incubated for 15 min at 37 °C. Acyl-ACP products were analyzed as described above. Radiolabeled acetyl- and malonyl-ACP standards were prepared by carrying out decarboxylase assays in the presence and absence of E. coli KAS I mutant protein that has a substitution of amino acid Cys-163 with Ala and efficiently decarboxylates malonyl-ACP to acetyl-ACP (CITATION).  Northern and Reverse Transcription (RT)-PCR Analyses—Poly(A)+ RNAs used for Northern blot analysis were extracted from 2-week-old A. thaliana leaves using an mRNA purification kit (Amersham Biosciences). Approximately 3 μg of poly(A)+ RNAs were separated by electrophoresis in a 1% (w/v) agarose gel, and transferred to a nylon membrane (Hybond-N+; Amersham Biosciences). Hybridization and detection were performed using a DNA labeling and detection system (ECL kit; Amersham Biosciences). Total RNAs used for RT-PCR were extracted from leaves, roots, and flowers of 4-week-old A. thaliana with an RNA extraction kit (RNeasy® Plant Mini Kit; Qiagen). The primer set used for amplifying and cloning of the mtKAS-Δ20 sequence was used for RT-PCR as described before (CITATION). As a control the expression of the gene for α-tubulin of A. thaliana (CITATION) was also checked with the same RNA preparations using the primer set 5′-CTACTGAGAGAAGATGCGAG-3′ and 5′-CAACATCTCCTCGGTACATC-3′.  Expression of mtKAS-Δ20 in E. coli and Antibody Production—The mtKAS-Δ20 sequence was amplified using the primer set 5′-CGCCATGGCGACATCTAATCTCCGT-3′ and 5′-CGCCATGGTTAGATAGAGGCAAAGA-3′. In constructing these primers, the sequence 5′-CGCCATGG-3′ including an NcoI site was added to the 5′ end of each primer. The obtained PCR products were digested with NcoI and ligated into the same site of the expression vector pET-30a(+) (Novagen). The obtained plasmid was used to transform E. coli BL21(DE3) (CITATION). Expression of mtKAS-Δ20 in BL21(DE3), purification of mtKAS-Δ20 protein, and production of a polyclonal antibody against this protein were performed using a previously described procedure (CITATION).  Cell Fractionation and Western Blot Analysis—The cytosol, microsome, mitochondrial, and chloroplast fractions were prepared from 3-week-old A. thaliana leaves and used for Western blot analysis as described (CITATION).  Construction and Visualization of mtKAS-Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) Fusion Protein—The mtKAS cDNA sequence encoding the 50 N-terminal residues was amplified by PCR with the primer set 5′-GCGTCGACATGGCGACATCTAATCTCCGTAGA-3′ and 5′-CATGCCATGGTTGTTTCAACGCCTCTACCAAG-3′. The sequences 5′-GCGTCGACAT-3′ or 5′-CATGCCATGG-3′, including a SalI site and an NcoI, respectively, were added to the 5′ end of each primer. The PCR product was digested with SalI and NcoI, and ligated into the SalI-NcoI site of the CaMV35SΩ-sGFP (S65T)-nos3′ plasmid, designated pGFP (CITATION). The obtained recombinant plasmid pmtKAStp-GFP and pGFP were introduced into tobacco BY-2 cells prepared from a 5-day-old culture, with a particle bombardment device (PDS-1000/He Biolistic® Particle Delivery System; Bio-Rad) according to instructions from the manufacturer. The applied conditions were 1,100 p.s.i. of helium gas pressure, a distance of 9 cm from macrocarrier to cell suspension, and a decompression vacuum of 28 inches Hg. Tungsten particles (1.1 μm) were used as a carrier of plasmid DNAs. The bombarded cells were incubated at room temperature in the dark overnight and stained with a mitochondria-selective probe (Mito Tracker® Red CM-H2Xros; Molecular Probes) following the recommendations from the manufacturer. Cells were examined with a confocal laser scan microscope (LSM410; Carl Zeiss). Excitation wavelengths were set at 488 nm for GFP and at 543 nm for Mito Tracker Red. All obtained images were processed by Adobe Photoshop software.  Nucleotide Sequence Accession Number—The sequence data for mtKAS cDNA has been deposited in the DDBJ, EMBL, and GenBank™ data bases under accession no. AB073746. 
