!~ABS~! The plant hormone ethylene regulates a wide range of developmental processes and the response of plants to stress and pathogens. Genetic studies in Arabidopsis led to a partial elucidation of the mechanisms of ethylene action. Ethylene signal transduction initiates with ethylene binding at a family of ethylene receptors and terminates in a transcription cascade involving the EIN3/EIL and ERF families of plant-specific transcription factors. Here, we identify two Arabidopsis F box proteins called EBF1 and EBF2 that interact physically with EIN3/EIL transcription factors. EBF1 overexpression results in plants insensitive to ethylene. In contrast, plants carrying the ebf1 and ebf2 mutations display a constitutive ethylene response and accumulate the EIN3 protein in the absence of the hormone. Our work places EBF1 and EBF2 within the genetic framework of the ethylene-response pathway and supports a model in which ethylene action depends on EIN3 protein stabilization.
!~RES~! To understand the function of the SCF complex in plant development, we have used a molecular genetic approach to characterize a number of genes encoding F box proteins belonging to the leucine-rich repeat (LRR) family. Here, we report our work concerning two of these proteins. AtFBL6 (At2g25490), hereafter called EBF1 has been described as an Arabidopsis F box protein containing 16 tandem leucine-rich repeats (LRRs) CITATION. EBF1 is structurally related to the budding yeast GRR1 protein that is involved in cell cycle control and glucose signaling (see CITATION and references therein). Sequence analysis reveals the presence of a paralogous gene, hereafter called EBF2 (At5g25350), which is 58.5% identical to EBF1 at the amino acid sequence level. Except for the F box domain, both EBF1 and EBF2 protein sequences consist mainly of the cysteine-containing LRRs CITATION . RNA blot analysis indicates that both EBF1 and EBF2 genes are expressed in all plant organs analyzed CITATION suggesting that they are involved in basic cellular functions. N-terminal and C-terminal translational fusions to the green fluorescent protein (GFP) were used to investigate the subcellular localization of the EBF1 F box protein in transiently transformed Nicotiana benthamiana plants. Whereas the GFP protein alone is detectable in both the cytosol and the nucleus, EBF1 is only detected in the nuclei CITATION, but clearly excluded from the nucleoli. This was observed with both N-terminal CITATION and C-terminal (data not shown) EBF1 fusion proteins and an N-terminal GFP-EBF2 fusion protein (data not shown). Moreover, in certain transformed cells, we observed a speckled distribution of the EBF1 fusion proteins CITATION. Whether these speckles correspond to ubiquitylation centers is unknown, but the nuclear localization of EBF1 is consistent with the subcellular localization of the plant SCF components, ASK1 and Cullin 1 CITATION. A yeast two-hybrid screen was used to identify proteins that potentially interact with EBF1. The full-length coding sequence of EBF1 was fused to the Gal4 DNA binding domain to screen a 3-week-old Arabidopsis green vegetative tissue cDNA library. From over three million clones screened, 39 clones were identified as potential interactors. One fourth of them represented the ASK1 and ASK2 proteins. These are Arabidopsis orthologs of budding yeast SKP1 and represent known subunits of several Arabidopsis SCF ubiquitin protein ligases CITATION. Interestingly, seven individual clones corresponded to the EIN3 (ethylene-insensitive 3, At3g20770) protein CITATION and one clone to the EIL1 (Ein3-like 1, At2g27050) protein CITATION CITATION . We then tested whether EBF2 was able to interact with the EIN3 and EIL1 transcription factors in the yeast two-hybrid assay CITATION. Moreover to investigate the specificity of these interactions, we used two well-characterized Arabidopsis F box proteins as controls, TIR1 CITATION and COI1 CITATION that are involved in auxin and jasmonate signaling, respectively. Like the EBF1 and EBF2 proteins, TIR1 and COI1 are also members of the LRRs family of F box proteins. In our yeast two-hybrid experiments, only EBF1 and EBF2, but not TIR1 and COI1, were able to interact with the EIN3 and EIL1 proteins. In vitro pull-down assays were subsequently used to examine interactions between the EBF proteins and EIN3 CITATION. For this purpose, we generated GST fusions with EBF1, EBF2, and with COI1, which was used as a control. 35S methionine-radiolabeled EIN3 protein was produced in wheat germ extracts. Thus, we were able to pull down EIN3 with both GST-EBF1 and GST-EBF2, whereas GST alone and GST-COI1 gave negative results. Finally, to investigate whether EBF1 and EBF2 are part of SCF complexes, we performed pull-down assays as described in CITATION. Both F box proteins, as well as COI1 as a positive control, were expressed in E. coli as translational fusion proteins with GST, purified and incubated with total Arabidopsis protein extracted from a cell suspension culture. After pull-down, the bound plant proteins were immunoblotted with the ASK1 and AtCUL1 antibodies. Both ASK1 and AtCUL1 copurified with the GST-F Box fusion proteins, but not with the GST protein alone CITATION. The identity of the ASK1 and AtCUL1 proteins was confirmed by competition assays using the peptides used to raise the antibodies (data not shown). From these experiments, we conclude that EBF1 and EBF2 most likely form Arabidopsis SCF complexes and that both F box proteins specifically interact with transcription factors involved in ethylene-signaling pathway. Altering the expression of EBF1/2 might be expected to interfere with the ethylene response if they are components of the ethylene-signaling pathway. To test this possibility, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis lines expressing EBF1 under the control of the strong CaMV 35S promoter. The resulting transgenic plants belonged to two phenotypic classes, those that were ethylene insensitive and overaccumulated EBF1 and those that were phenotypically normal and had no detectable transgene expression CITATION . Plants with the highest level of transgene expression had reduced levels of endogenous EBF1 expression. This was even more striking for EBF2, suggesting the existence of a negative-feedback loop for EBF1/2 expression CITATION. The ethylene insensitivity of EBF1 overexpressors is consistent with EBF1 targeting EIN3 for degradation and as such is similar to the phenotype displayed by the loss of function mutant ein3-1. While our manuscript was submitted, CITATION demonstrated that the EIN3 protein was only detectable in plants treated with the ethylene precursor ACC. Thus, we examined whether EBF1 overexpression had an effect on EIN3 protein level. Indeed transgenic lines that overexpressed EBF1 showed a reduced level of EIN3 protein compared to Col-0 control plants when grown in presence of 10 μM ACC CITATION. Similarly, CITATION, (this issue of Cell) demonstrated that the EIN3 protein accumulation is impaired in ethylene-treated plants overproducing EBF1 and EBF2. To provide further genetic evidence that EBF1 and EBF2 are involved in ethylene signaling, we screened a collection of Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion lines CITATION for mutants in both genes CITATION. Two T-DNA insertions were identified within the coding region of EBF1, called ebf1-1 and ebf1-2. The T-DNA insertion was located close to the 3′ end of the coding region in ebf1-1 and causes a truncation of the distal LRR-repeats. In ebf1-2, the T-DNA interrupts most of the LRRs coding domain. A single line with an insertion in EBF2 was identified, ebf2-1. In this case, the T-DNA was located in the proximal promoter of the gene, resulting in greatly reduced mRNA accumulation (CITATION). Plants homozygous for either ebf1 or ebf2 were indistinguishable from wild-type under normal growth conditions. However, when germinated in the dark, all three mutant alleles showed a slightly exaggerated response to ACC CITATION. Nevertheless, striking developmental alterations resembling the phenotype caused by the well-characterized constitutive triple response1 (ctr1) mutation, were displayed by plants homozygous for both ebf1-1 and ebf2-1. Extensive segregation analysis and PCR testing confirmed that the ctr1-like phenotype was dependent on loss of EBF1 and EBF2 gene function. We also observed the ctr1-like phenotype in the ebf1-2 ebf2-1 double mutant (data not shown). When germinated in the dark, the ebf1-1 ebf2-1 mutant seedlings show a typical constitutive triple response characterized by short hypocotyls, short roots, and exaggerated apical hooks CITATION . Like ctr1 CITATION the ebf1-1 ebf2-1 mutant is still responsive to ethylene CITATION. Moreover, inhibitors of ethylene perception or biosynthesis including AgNO3 and aminoethoxyvinyl glycine (AVG) could not suppress the constitutive triple response (data not shown), indicating that the phenotypes seen in ebf1-1 ebf2-1 double mutants are not due to a greatly increased ethylene production or increased sensitivity toward ethylene. When grown in the light CITATION, ebf1-1 ebf2-1 double mutants display slightly longer hypocotyls, curled unexpanded cotyledons, and short and thicker roots with ectopic root hairs CITATION, similar to the ctr1 mutant CITATION. Moreover, the average area of the leaf epidermal cells was severely reduced in the ebf1-1 ebf2-1 double mutant (± 1001 μm2, n = 100) compared to wild-type Col-0 (± 5912 μm2, n = 100). A ± 5-fold reduction of the mean area of the leaf epidermal cells is also observed for the ctr1 mutant (± 1158 μm2, n = 100) as previously reported CITATION. Similarly to ctr1, the ebf1-1 ebf2-1 double mutant shows also dwarfed growth, supernumerary epinastically curled leaves, early senescence CITATION, and abnormal flowers with the gynoecium protruding from the unopened floral buds CITATION. However, the phenotypes seen in ebf1 ebf2 plants are more severe than those seen in ctr1. This becomes apparent at about two weeks after germination, except for the reduced root growth, which is already obvious at three days after germination. Moreover, unlike the ctr1 mutation that has a reduced transmission of the ctr1 allele relative to wild-type and infertile early flowers CITATION, ebf1-1 ebf2-1 double mutants have a greatly reduced fertility but can readily be pollinated with wild-type pollen. Overall our data suggest that EBF1 and EBF2 may play a specific role in the recognition of the EIN3 and (EIL1) transcription factor(s) and facilitate their subsequent SCF-dependent ubiquitylation and degradation. Thus, EIN3 stabilization in the ebf1 ebf2 double mutant could account for the observed constitutive triple ethylene response phenotype. To test this hypothesis, 12-day-old light grown seedlings were assayed for EIN3 protein abundance. Interestingly, the EIN3 protein accumulated in the ebf1 ebf2 double mutant in the absence of ACC at a level similar to ACC-treated Col-0 plants CITATION. Moreover, ACC treatment of the ebf1 ebf2 seedlings did not significantly increase EIN3 protein level (data not shown). The ebf1 ebf2 ein3 triple mutant (described below) was used to confirm the specificity of the EIN3 antibody. Since the ebf1 ebf2 double mutants resulted in a constitutive “ethylene response phenotype”, we investigated whether the mRNA levels of ERF1, an immediate target of EIN3, increase in abundance in these plants as well as in other known ethylene-response mutants. Indeed the steady-state level of ERF1 mRNA was elevated in the ebf1-1 ebf2-1 double mutant CITATION and was even more abundant than that found in ctr1 mutant plants, previously shown to have constitutive expression of ERF1 CITATION. The increase of ERF1 transcript levels is consistent with the high accumulation of EIN3 protein in the ebf1 ebf2 mutant CITATION. Interestingly, we also found that EBF2 mRNA level, and to a lesser extent EBF1 mRNA levels, were altered in the ethylene-signaling mutants CITATION. EBF2 transcript levels were elevated in the ctr1 mutant but less abundant in the ein2, ein3, and ein6 mutants. Similarly, the accumulation of EBF1 transcript was reduced in the ein3 mutant. These observations are in apparent disagreement with the ethylene-insensitive phenotype of EBF1 overexpressing plants as one might have expected that EBF transcript levels should positively correlate with ethylene insensitivity. Thus, we suspected the existence of a negative-feedback loop in which accumulated EIN3 protein induces its future breakdown by activating EBF2 transcription either directly or through components of the transcription cascade downstream of EIN3. To investigate this issue, 2-week-old wild-type Col-0 or ein3 in vitro grown plants were treated with 10 μM ACC CITATION. Previous work has shown that EIN3 mRNA levels are not responsive to ethylene treatment CITATION. However, both the abundance of ERF1 and EBF2 mRNA significantly increases in ACC-treated Col-0 plants, but not in ACC-treated ein3 mutant plants. From these experiments, we conclude that EBF2 transcription is regulated by ethylene in an EIN3-dependent fashion. Such a negative-feedback loop might allow the plant to rapidly respond to changing ethylene concentrations and to have strict temporal control over EIN3 protein abundance/activity. We next investigated the relationship between EIN3 and EBF1 and EBF2 using a genetic approach and tested whether the constitutive ethylene response of ebf1 ebf2 mutants might simply reflect increased levels of EIN3. Thus, we generated the triple-mutant combination ein3-1 ebf1-1 ebf2-1. As expected, no EIN3 protein was detectable in the ein3-1 ebf1-1 ebf2-1 plants, even when ACC-treated CITATION. These plants had an ethylene-insensitive phenotype similar to the one seen in ein3 mutant plants showing that ein3 is epistatic to ebf1 ebf2 CITATION . Unlike ebf1 ebf2 mutant plants, ein3 ebf1 ebf2 mutant plants exhibited normal leaf and flower morphology and were fully fertile CITATION. However, ein3-1 ebf1-1 ebf2-1 triple-mutant plants were slightly smaller than ein3-1 plants CITATION. From these observations, we conclude that the constitutive triple ethylene response phenotype of the ebf1-1 ebf2-1 double mutant is indeed dependent on the presence of functional EIN3 protein. Moreover, the weak differences between the ein3 and ein3-1 ebf1-1 ebf2-1 mutants suggest that in addition to EIN3, mutations of the EBF1 and EBF2 may also affect the function of EIL1 or other still unknown proteins involved in the ethylene signaling. This is not unexpected as it was recently shown that EIL1 acts in parallel with EIN3 CITATION and therefore the stabilization of EIL1 in ein3-1 ebf1-1 ebf2-1 plants could account for the observed slight reduction in ethylene insensitivity and for the reduced plant size. The EIN2 gene encodes a transmembrane protein with partial homology to mammalian metal transporters and has been shown to act upstream of EIN3 CITATION. We generated ein2 ebf1 ebf2 triple mutants. We found that, as young seedlings, ein2 ebf1 ebf2 triple-mutant plants had a intermediate phenotype with greatly reduced hypocotyl and root length compared to ein2 and wild-type seedlings when germinated in the dark in the absence of ethylene. CITATION. However the reduction in hypocotyl length and root length was not as severe as seen in ebf1 ebf2 plants and in contrast to ebf1 ebf2 plants, ein2 ebf1 ebf2 triple mutants lacked an exaggerated apical hook. As these plants matured, they showed the characteristic ctr1-like morphology of ebf1 ebf2 double-mutant plants CITATION with epinastic cotyledons, epinastic leaves, reduced leaf size, and altered flower morphology. Because of the ebf1 ebf2-like phenotype for most of the lifespan of the ein2 ebf1 ebf2 triple mutant, we tentatively place EBF1 and EBF2 downstream of EIN2, although we cannot rule out that they act independently of EIN2.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis plants were of the Columbia (Col-0) ecotype. The ebf1-1, ebf1-2, and ebf2-1 knockout lines were identified by PCR-screening the Köln-Arabidopsis T-DNA mutant collection CITATION using gene specific primers and T-DNA specific primer FISH1 and FISH2. The T-DNA insertion sites were determined by DNA sequencing. In the ebf1-1 and ebf1-2 mutants, the T-DNA were inserted in the EBF1 coding sequence at position 1642 and 1048, respectively. In the ebf1-1 mutant, the last 81 amino acids are replaced by a 20 amino acid peptide (VQDIFNCKWLHVREIYMDQQ). In ebf1-2, the mutation gives rise to a truncated protein in which the 267 last amino acids are replaced by a 7 amino acid sequence (TPGYILQ). In the ebf2-1 mutant, the T-DNA is inserted 221 nucleotides upstream of the EBF2 coding sequence, which based on the sequences of available full-length cDNA clones, belongs to the proximal promoter region. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were obtained by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation using the floral dip method CITATION. Plants were grown on soil with 12 hr day and 12 hr night. In vitro plants were grown onto half strength Murashige and Skoog medium M0255 (Duchefa) supplemented with 1% sucrose (conditions used: 16 hr day and 8 hr night at 20°C). ein3-1, ctr1-1, ein2-1, and ein6 have been described CITATION and were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock center. With the exception of ein6, which is in the Landsberg background, they are in the Columbia background. The sequence of the PCR markers used for segregation analysis is available on request. ein3-1 ebf1-1 ebf2 plants were generated by crossing ein3-1 to a plant that was double heterozygous for ebf1-1 and ebf2. In the F1 generation, triple heterozygous plants were identified by PCR testing; in the F2 generation, plants that were homozygous for the ein3-1 mutation were selected on the basis of their ACC-insensitive phenotype. Thirty-two plants were transferred to soil, the ein3-1 homozygously was confirmed by PCR testing and PCR product sequencing, and the segregation of the T-DNA insertions in EBF1 and 2 was determined by PCR testing. Two plants homozygous for both T-DNA insertions were found, perfectly matching the expected segregation. The ethylene-response phenotype was confirmed and statistically analyzed in the F3 generation. Likewise, ein2-1 ebf1-1 ebf2 plants were generated by pollinating an ebf1 ebf2 double-mutant plant. In the F2 generation, plants that were phenotypically ebf1 ebf2 double mutants were selected and tested for the presence of the ein2-1 mutation. Fifty-three plants were screened and four were found to be homozygous for the ein2-1 mutation. The close genetic linkage of EBF2 and EIN2 on chromosome 5 can explain the reduced number of double mutants. Offspring of plants homozygous for ein2-1 and heterozygous for both ebf insertions was used to identify and analyze ein2-1 ebf1 ebf2 triple homozygous seedlings. The leaf epidermal cell size measurements of 22 days postgerminated seedlings were performed as described in CITATION. The GFP-EBF1 and the EBF1-GFP fusions were generated by PCR modifying the EBF1 EST clone APZL08dO8R and introduction into the pSKGFP3 (P.G., unpublished data) vector. The resulting fusion genes were subsequently introduced into the T-DNA vector pER8 CITATION. The GFP fusion proteins were transiently expressed in agro-infiltrated leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana as described by CITATION in the presence of 5 μM estradiol. Three days after infection, the infiltrated leaves were peeled and observed. Confocal images were obtained by a Zeiss LSM510 laser-scanning confocal microscope with argon laser excitation at 488 nm and through 505–550 emission filter-set and using a C-APOCHROMAT (63 × 1, 2W Korr) water objective lens. The images are presented as single sections. Transmitted light reference images were taken using differential interference contrast (Nomarski) optics and argon laser illumination at 488 nm. The open reading frame of EBF1 was PCR modified to clone it into the pPILY plant expression cassette CITATION. This expression cassette containing EBF1 was subsequently introduced into the pCAMBIA1380 vector (CAMBIA, Australia). Col-O was used for transformation. RNA gels were performed with 20 μg of total RNA per lane. The integrity and the amount of RNA applied to each lane were verified by ethidium bromide staining and hybridization with a probe encoding the translation elongation factor 1-α (EF-1α) (cDNA clone 232A19T7, gene At1g07920). The yeast host strain AH109 (Clontech) was first transformed with pGBKT7-EBF1 as a bait, followed by transformation with a 3-week-old Arabidopsis (Co) green vegetative tissue cDNA library in pGAD10 vector (Clontech). About 3 × 106 yeast transformants were screened on the selective medium SD/-His/-Trp/-Leu with 1.5 mM 3-amino-1,2,4,-triazole (3-AT) and the positive clones were than subsequently plated on SD/-Ade/-His/-Trp/-Leu medium. Around forty-five clones were able to grow on this medium and gave a positive β-galactosidase activity. Plasmids were extracted, transformed into E. coli, and cDNA inserts were analyzed by restriction enzyme digestions and sequenced. To further confirm and validate our clones, we retransformed the yeast AH109 strain containing either the pGBKT7-EBF1 or the pGBKT7 empty vector with the candidate plasmids and plated different dilutions of the transformants either on SD/-Ade/-His/-Trp/-Leu or on SD/-Trp/-Leu media. Thirty-nine transformants were able to grow on SD/-Ade/-His/-Trp/-Leu , with both the candidate plasmids and pGBKT7-EBF1 and not with the empty vector, and were considered as positive. To test the β-galactosidase activities, the candidate plasmids were retransformed in the yeast Y187 strain (transformed with pGBKT7-EBF1) since this strain has a stronger promoter to drive lacZ expression than AH109. Moreover, the cDNAs coding EBF1, EBF2, COI1, and TIR1 were introduced into the pGBT9 vector (Clontech), and tested against the obtained EIN3 and EIL1 plasmids. A full-length clone of EIN3 was furthermore put in a pGADT7 clone without any change in the two-hybrid interaction. The yeast two-hybrid analysis was performed using the GAL4-based matchmaker two-hybrid system (Clontech) according to the manufacturer's protocol. The EIN3 polyclonal antibody CITATION was affinity purified with the His-tagged recombinant EIN3 protein expressed from E. coli. Samples of 15 μg proteins were separated by SDS gels and blotted onto Immobilon-P membrane (Millipore, Bedford, MA). The blots were probed first with the EIN3 antibody and subsequently stripped and immunoblotted with the Cdc2 (PSTAIRE) polyclonal antibody, used as loading control. The EBF1, EBF2, and COI1 coding sequences were cloned into the gateway vector pDESTTM15 (Invitrogen) by recombination for expression in E.coli strain BL21(DE3)pLysE. In these constructs, GST is placed in frame at the N terminus of the fusion protein. After 4 hr of 0.5 mM IPTG induction, the fusion proteins were purified in the native form, under nondenaturing conditions on bulk glutathione-Sepharose 4B (Pharmacia). For the GST pull-down assays, the EIN3 protein was translated in vitro, using the TNTT7-coupled wheat germ extract system (Promega) and radio-labeled with 35S methionine. The GST pull-down assays were realized with 4 μg of purified GST or GST-F box fusion proteins fixed to glutathione-Sepharose 4B resin (Amersham) and incubated with 2.5 mg of total protein extracts prepared from an Arabidopsis cell suspension culture, as described in CITATION. To detect the AtCul1 protein, we used the purified rabbit polyclonal anti-Cul1 antibody CITATION diluted 1: 800. To detect the ASK1 protein, we used a purified rabbit polyclonal antibody raised against a peptide of the Arabidopsis ASK1 protein (P.G., unpublished data) diluted 1: 3000. The immunoreactive proteins were detected using peroxidase-conjugated goat antirabbit antibodies (Dianova) and the ECL Western blot analysis system from Amersham Biosciences.
