!~ABS~! Plants use ethylene gas as a signal to regulate myriad developmental processes and stress responses. The Arabidopsis EIN3 protein is a key transcription factor mediating ethylene-regulated gene expression and morphological responses. Here, we report that EIN3 protein levels rapidly increase in response to ethylene and this response requires several ethylene-signaling pathway components including the ethylene receptors (ETR1 and EIN4), CTR1, EIN2, EIN5, and EIN6. In the absence of ethylene, EIN3 is quickly degraded through a ubiquitin/proteasome pathway mediated by two F box proteins, EBF1 and EBF2. Plants containing mutations in either gene show enhanced ethylene response by stabilizing EIN3, whereas efb1 efb2 double mutants show constitutive ethylene phenotypes. Plants overexpressing either F box gene display ethylene insensitivity and destabilization of EIN3 protein. These results reveal that a ubiquitin/proteasome pathway negatively regulates ethylene responses by targeting EIN3 for degradation, and pinpoint EIN3 regulation as the key step in the response to ethylene.
!~RES~! EIN3 is a key transcription factor positively regulating gene expression in response to ethylene. We sought to investigate how EIN3 is regulated by ethylene. Overexpression of EIN3 (EIN3ox) in transgenic plants results in constitutive ethylene responses CITATION, implying that EIN3 abundance is important for its function. However, previous studies revealed that the level of EIN3 RNA is not altered either by ethylene treatment, or in the ein2 or ctr1 mutant CITATION, suggesting a posttranscriptional mechanism of EIN3 regulation by ethylene. To determine whether the level of EIN3 protein is subject to ethylene regulation, we first monitored the levels of EIN3 protein in wild-type plants grown in growth medium supplemented with various concentrations of ACC, an ethylene biosynthetic precursor. As shown in CITATION , we observed a positive correlation between the levels of EIN3 protein and the severity of the seedling triple response phenotype. In the absence of ACC treatment, EIN3 protein was barely detectable. By comparison, the levels of EIN3 protein in plants treated with high concentrations of ACC (e.g., 10 and 50 μM) were dramatically elevated. To gain further insight into the kinetics of EIN3 induction by ethylene, we monitored the levels of EIN3 protein in plants treated with ethylene gas for different periods of time. In wild-type plants, the level of EIN3 markedly increased after 1 hr of hormone treatment CITATION. No EIN3 protein was observed in the ein3-1 mutant, confirming that our antibody specifically recognized EIN3 protein. The levels of transgenically overexpressed EIN3 protein in EIN3ox plants were also upregulated by ethylene treatment CITATION. In agreement with this observation, EIN3ox seedlings displayed an extremely exaggerated triple response (with a very short root and hypocotyl) in the presence of ethylene (see Figures 5C and 5D). Taken together, we conclude that the levels of both endogenous and transgenically overexpressed EIN3 protein are increased by ethylene. Genetic studies have identified several components of the ethylene-signaling pathway, including the ETR/ERS family of receptors, CTR1, EIN2, EIN5, and EIN6 CITATION. We asked whether any of these signaling components are required for ethylene-induced EIN3 accumulation. Silver ion is a potent inhibitor of ethylene action that acts by interfering with ethylene perception CITATION. We tested whether silver treatment perturbs EIN3 accumulation upon ethylene treatment. As shown in CITATION, the level of EIN3 was no longer increased by ethylene in wild-type seedlings treated with silver ion. This result indicates that perception of ethylene is required for EIN3 accumulation. We next monitored the levels of EIN3 protein in several ethylene-insensitive mutants, including two dominant receptor mutants, etr1 and ein4, as well as three recessive mutants, ein5, ein6, and ein2. When compared with wild-type seedlings, ein4, ein5, or ein6 mutants showed a significant delay in EIN3 accumulation in response to ethylene and also a reduction in maximal accumulation CITATION. In etr1, EIN3 did not accumulate until 12 hr of treatment and the protein level was only slightly elevated CITATION. However, in ein2, ethylene-induced EIN3 accumulation was completely blocked CITATION. We were unable to detect any EIN3 protein in ein2 seedlings even after three days of continuous hormone treatment (data not shown). These results demonstrate that an intact ethylene-signaling pathway consisting of the ETR/ERS receptors, EIN2, EIN5, and EIN6 is required for EIN3 accumulation, suggesting that these components function upstream of EIN3. Moreover, these results imply that the ethylene-insensitivity observed in these mutants (etr1, ein2, ein4, ein5, and ein6) might be the consequence of reduced EIN3 abundance. In contrast to the ethylene-insensitive mutants, the ctr1 and eto mutants display constitutively activated ethylene responses CITATION. Consistent with its phenotype, ctr1 expressed a higher level of EIN3 in comparison with wild-type when no exogenous ethylene was applied CITATION. Interestingly, the level of EIN3 in ctr1 remained inducible by ethylene. Given that ctr1-1 produces a nonfunctional CTR1 protein CITATION, this result suggests that a parallel pathway, bypassing CTR1, might exist. We also observed elevated EIN3 protein levels in eto1 and eto2 mutants in the absence of exogenous ethylene (data not shown). Thus, the constitutive triple response mutants result in elevated levels of EIN3 protein. As the level of EIN3 is low in the absence of ethylene, we asked whether EIN3 protein is unstable in this condition. After boosting EIN3 levels in wild-type seedlings by ethylene treatment, seedlings were placed in a stream of hydrocarbon-free air and level of EIN3 protein was monitored. As shown in CITATION , EIN3 levels dramatically decreased after 30 min and remained barely detectable for the subsequent 2 hr. Interestingly, after 4 hr in the air, EIN3 protein started to reaccumulate to a modest level. These results suggested that, in the absence of ethylene, EIN3 is a short-lived protein. We next examined how ethylene evokes EIN3 protein accumulation. The rapid increase in EIN3 protein accumulation upon ethylene treatment could be attributed either to ethylene-induced de novo protein synthesis, or to ethylene-directed repression of constitutive EIN3 protein turnover, or to a combination of both processes. To address this issue, we blocked de novo translation initiation using cyclohexamide (CHX) and compared the levels of EIN3 protein in the presence or absence of ethylene. After 2 hr of hormone treatment, seedlings were incubated with CHX and kept in either ethylene or hydrocarbon-free air. As shown in CITATION, the levels of EIN3 remained constitutively high in the presence of ethylene but decreased rapidly in the absence of ethylene, indicating that de novo protein synthesis is not required for ethylene-mediated EIN3 protein accumulation. Thus, we conclude that ethylene acts to repress constitutive degradation of EIN3 protein, although we cannot rule out the possibility that translational regulation may play a minor role in ethylene-mediated EIN3 accumulation. The ubiquitin/proteasome pathway is involved in the rapid degradation of many short-lived proteins that regulates numerous cellular processes CITATION. Because EIN3 turnover is rapid, we speculated that a proteasome-mediated pathway might be responsible for its degradation. To test this possibility, we treated Arabidopsis suspension cell cultures with proteasome-specific inhibitors, MG132 and MG115 CITATION. After 30 min of MG132 treatment, the levels of EIN3 protein markedly increased CITATION. Likewise, MG115 treatment also enhanced EIN3 abundance (data not shown). As a control, treatment with a general cysteine protease inhibitor, Pefabloc, had no effect on EIN3 abundance CITATION. We further demonstrated that the abundance of transgenically overexpressed EIN3 protein was similarly induced by treatment with MG132 or MG115, but not with Pefabloc CITATION. These results indicate that EIN3 proteolysis is proteasome-dependent. EIN3 is localized in the nucleus in transiently transformed protoplast cells CITATION. To assess whether the nuclear localization of EIN3 is modulated by ethylene, we made transgenic Arabidopsis plants that express an EIN3-GFP fusion protein driven by the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter. Overexpression of EIN3-GFP was able to complement the ein3 mutant (data not shown), indicating that this fusion protein was functional in plants. Immunoblot analysis indicated that the level of EIN3-GFP fusion protein was dramatically increased by ethylene CITATION . We also observed that treatment with ACC substantially enhanced the abundance of EIN3-GFP in the nucleus (as visualized by DAPI staining; data not shown) CITATION. To gain a more dynamic view of how ethylene may trigger EIN3-GFP nuclear accumulation, we conducted a time-course study. As shown in CITATION, while barely detected in the absence of ACC treatment, EIN3-GFP accumulated in the nucleus after 1 hr of ACC treatment (but not in mock-treated cells, data not shown), and nuclear accumulation continued for at least 4 hr. We next asked whether inhibition of proteasome-mediated proteolysis by MG132 treatment is sufficient for EIN3-GFP to accumulate in the nucleus. Similar to ethylene, treatment of seedling with MG132 also led to rapid nuclear accumulation of EIN3-GFP in the absence of ethylene CITATION. Taken together, we conclude that accumulation of the transcriptional regulator EIN3 in the nucleus is promoted by ethylene or by inhibition of proteasome function. Several F box proteins have recently been identified as key regulators of plant hormone-signaling pathways CITATION. Because EIN3 abundance is regulated by a proteasome-dependent pathway, we speculated that one or more specific F box proteins would mediate the EIN3 degradation process. While there are approximately 700 putative F box proteins in the Arabidopsis genome, only a few of them have been functionally characterized CITATION. Using the EIN3 N-terminal domain as bait in yeast two-hybrid screen, we failed to identify any F box protein that could interact with EIN3. We then directly tested the possible interaction between EIN3 full-length protein and individual F box proteins. Using genome-wide microarray experiments, we narrowed the search for EIN3-interacting F box proteins by first testing those genes whose RNA levels were regulated by ethylene (CITATION; H.G. and J.R.E., unpublished data). From this gene list, two closely related candidate F box proteins were identified which were able to interact with EIN3 in yeast two-hybrid assays CITATION . We designated these two F box proteins as EBF1 and EBF2 (for EIN3-binding F box protein 1 and 2). EBF1 was previously named as FBL6 with no function assigned CITATION. These two proteins share 57% identity in amino acid sequence CITATION, and each contains a well-conserved F box motif in the amino terminus and 18 tandem leucine-rich repeats (LRRs) in the carboxyl terminus CITATION. Because LRR domains in several F box proteins contribute to the substrate binding CITATION, we tested whether the C-terminal LRR domains in EBF1 and EBF2 were sufficient for EIN3 interaction. As shown in CITATION, both LRR domains interacted with EIN3 protein in yeast two-hybrid assays. A truncated fragment comprising only the first or the last nine LRRs of EBF1 failed to interact with EIN3 (data not shown), suggesting that the entire LRR domain might be required for EIN3 binding. We also found that EIN3 C-terminal domain is required for EBF1/EBF2 binding (data not shown), providing an explanation for the failure of identifying these two F box proteins in the previous yeast two-hybrid screen. To examine whether EBF1 and EBF2 function as authentic F box proteins, which characteristically associate with Skp1 proteins CITATION, we tested the interaction between the two proteins and ASK1, an Arabidopsis Skp1 protein. Both F box proteins were able to interact with ASK1 in yeast two-hybrid assays CITATION. Taken together, we identified two EIN3-interacting F box proteins as candidates for SCF-mediated targeting of EIN3 protein turnover. To investigate the biological relevance of EBF1 and EBF2 in EIN3 regulation, we isolated mutants that harbor T-DNA insertion mutations in the two F box genes. Two homozygous ebf1 mutants (ebf1-1, ebf1-2) and one homozygous ebf2 mutant (ebf2-1) were obtained (CITATION, see Experimental Procedures). Each of these mutants contained a T-DNA insertion located within the LRR-encoding region CITATION . Northern blot analysis showed that the ebf1 mutants contained reduced levels of truncated versions of EBF1 mRNA while the ebf2 mutant contained no detectable EBF2 mRNA CITATION. We examined the dose response of these mutants when treated with different concentrations of ACC. Compared with wild-type, both ebf1-1 and ebf1-2 mutant alleles were hypersensitive to ACC treatment; although ebf1-2 was generally less severe than ebf1-1 CITATION. ebf2-1 also displayed hypersensitivity to ACC treatment, and a severe EIN3ox-like phenotype at the higher concentrations of ACC CITATION. Therefore, both ebf1 and ebf2 mutants were found to be hypersensitive to ethylene. We next examined whether ebf1 and ebf2 mutations affect EIN3 accumulation. As shown in CITATION, the levels of EIN3 protein were higher in ebf1-1 than in wild-type or ebf2-1 in the absence of ethylene. Upon ethylene treatment, the levels of EIN3 in either ebf1-1 or ebf2-1 were appreciably higher than those in wild-type. These data indicate that defects in either EBF1 or EBF2 lead to increased EIN3 accumulation, and a correspondingly enhanced ethylene response. To test the genetic interaction of ebf1 and ebf2 mutants, we generated ebf1 ebf2 double-mutant plants. ebf1 ebf2 etiolated seedlings showed pronounced triple response phenotypes in the absence of exogenous ethylene CITATION. Whereas ebf1 and ebf2 single-mutant adult plants were normal except that ebf1 had modest dwarfism and reduced fertility CITATION, ebf1 ebf2 double mutants displayed phenotypes characteristic of ctr1 mutants or plants overexpressing EIN3 CITATION. ebf1 ebf2 adult plants showed dwarfism, produced flowers with protruding gynoecium, and developed small size rosette leaves. Moreover, immunoblot analysis revealed that, in the absence of applied ethylene, the level of EIN3 protein was dramatically higher in ebf1 ebf2 plants than in wild-type plants and similar to the level found in ctr1 CITATION. Interestingly, ebf1 ebf2 plants also showed severely reduced fertility, a phenotype observed in EIN2-CENDox plants CITATION. These results reveal that a synergistic interaction exists between ebf1 and ebf2 mutants, suggesting a functional redundancy between two EBF proteins and confirming a role for SCF function in the response to ethylene. To test whether the ethylene hypersensitivity caused by ebf1 and ebf2 mutations is the consequence of enhanced EIN3 stability, we generated double mutants between ein3 and ebf1 or ebf2. As shown in CITATION, ein3-1 suppressed the ethylene phenotypes of both ebf1-1 and ebf2-1 mutants, indicating that the ebf1 and ebf2 mutants result in enhanced ethylene responsiveness by stabilizing EIN3 protein. Genetic studies revealed that EIN2 is an upstream component activating EIN3 function CITATION. To examine the positions of EBF1 and EBF2 relative to other ethylene-signaling components, we generated double mutants between ein2 and ebf1 or ebf2. Phenotypic analysis revealed that ebf1-1 and ebf2-1 partially suppressed ein2-5 CITATION, suggesting that EBF1 and EBF2 might act downstream of EIN2, although we cannot exclude that these molecules could act in parallel pathways. Taken together, we conclude that EBF1 and EBF2 function as negative regulators of the ethylene-signaling pathway by destabilizing EIN3. To further define the function of EBF1 and EBF2 in the ethylene-signaling pathway, we constructed transgenic plants containing either F box gene under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter, allowing constitutive high-level (5- to 20-fold increase) expression of RNAs for each of these genes (data not shown). As exemplified by an elongated hypocotyl and opened hypocotyl hook, overexpression of EBF1 caused partial insensitivity to ethylene, especially in aerial tissues CITATION . Similarly, overexpression of EBF2 resulted in strong ethylene insensitivity in both aerial and root tissues, comparable to the ein3 mutant CITATION. Furthermore, overexpression of EBF2 greatly suppressed the phenotype of the constitutive ethylene overproduction mutant eto2 (data not shown). To clarify whether the reduced ethylene sensitivity caused by overexpression of EBF1 or EBF2 arose from a defect in EIN3 protein accumulation, we monitored the levels of EIN3 in the EBF1 and EBF2 overexpression plants. Ethylene-dependent accumulation of EIN3 protein was greatly impaired in transgenic plants overexpressing EBF1 or EBF2 compared with wild-type CITATION. Taken together, these results reveal that EIN3-dependent ethylene responses are regulated by two previously uncharacterized F box proteins, EBF1 and EBF2.
!~MM~! With the exception of eto2 in Landsberg erecta (Ler) background, the ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was the parent strain for all mutant and transgenic lines used in this study. Arabidopsis seeds were surface-sterilized and plated on the surface of MS medium (4.3 g MS salts, 10 g sucrose, [pH 5.7], 8 g bactoagar per liter). After 3–4 days in the light at 4°C, the plates were wrapped in foil and kept in a 24°C incubator before the phenotypes of seedlings were analyzed. For propagation, seedlings from plates were transferred to soil (Promix-HP) and grown to maturity at 22°C under a 16 hr light/8 hr dark cycle. Ethylene treatment of Arabidopsis seedlings grown on plates was performed in containers by flowing through hydrocarbon-free air supplemented with 10 ppm (parts per million) ethylene or were treated with hydrocarbon-free air alone CITATION. For drug treatments, Arabidopsis suspension cell cultures were treated with MG132 (50 μM), MG115 (50 μM), Pefabloc SC (100 μM), or DMSO (0.1%) for a time course study. Alternatively, etiolated seedlings were germinated for three days on a disc of Whatman paper resting on the surface of MS medium. MG132 (50 μM), MG115 (50 μM), Pefabloc SC (100 μM), or DMSO (0.1%) was added to the paper discs for 4 hr. Cycloheximide (100 μM) was added to the paper discs and ethylene or air was applied for different amounts of time. Total RNA extractions and Northern blot analysis were performed as described CITATION. The coding region corresponding to residues 349–581 of EIN3 protein was PCR-amplified, expressed, purified from E. coli, and used to raise polyclonal antibodies in rabbits. Immunoblot assays were performed as described CITATION with minor modifications. Protein samples were prepared by homogenizing the liquid nitrogen ground tissues in 2× SDS-PAGE sample buffer and boiling the homogenate for 5 min. After centrifugation, the protein extracts were fractionated by 4%–12% gradient Tris-Glycine Novex precast gels (Invitrogen), blotted onto a nitrocellulose filter. The blot was probed first with anti-EIN3 antibody, and was subsequently stripped with 0.2 N glycine [pH 2.5] for 3 times and reprobed with either anti-CRY1 antibody CITATION or anti-SUB1 antibody CITATION. The cDNA sequences of the EIN3, ASK1, F box genes CITATION, and their derivatives were cloned into pAS2 or pACT2 vector (Clontech). Yeast transformation, growth conditions, and filter-lift assays for β-galactosidase activity were performed according to the manufacturer's instructions (Clontech). To identify knockouts in the EBF1 and EBF2 genes, we first searched the database of Salk T-DNA collections CITATION and identified one mutant line, ebf1-1. We next screened a pooled genomic DNA collection containing approximately 80,000 T-DNA tagged lines by a PCR-based method CITATION and two additional mutants (ebf1-2 and ebf2-1) were identified. Plants homozygous for the insertions were identified by PCR-based genotyping. Cosegregation between phenotype of ebf1 or ebf2 mutant and the corresponding T-DNA insertion was established in the segregation population of backcross lines. Double mutants were constructed by genetic crosses and homozygous lines were identified by PCR-based genotyping. EIN3 cDNA was cloned into the binary vector CHF3-GFP CITATION. The resulting 35S::EIN3-GFP construct was introduced into Agrobacterium strain C58 and subsequently transformed into Arabidopsis wild-type (Col-0) and ein3-1 plants CITATION. Kanamycin-resistant T1 plants were selected by plating seeds on MS medium supplemented with 1% sucrose and 50 μg/ml kanamycin. The triple-response phenotype was scored in T2 seedlings originated from individual kanamycin-resistant T1 plants. Transgenic seedlings that expressed a functional EIN3-GFP fusion protein were mounted on glass slides using PBS as a mounting medium. All images were collected on a fluorescence microscope (Olympus BX60) and the color of the images was artificially added in Photoshop 5.0 (Adobe Systems). For the time course experiment, after the first cell image was taken, 50 μM of ACC or MG132 was applied to the slide and the same cell was followed for 4 hr. The binary vector pKYLX7 was modified by inserting a loxP site in the MCS region (H. Li and J.R.E., unpublished data). The EBF1 and EBF2 full-length cDNA sequences were cloned into pUNI15 vector at NdeI/BamHI site (a gift from Dr. Stephen Elledge). An in vitro plasmid fusion reaction, catalyzed by Cre recombinase, was carried out between pUNI15 (containing F box cDNA sequence) and the modified pKYLX7. The resulting constructs that harbor the F box coding regions driven by CaMV 35S promoter were introduced into Agrobacterium strain C58 and subsequently transformed into Arabidopsis plants. Transgenic T1 plants were identified by Kanamycin selection. The triple response phenotype was scored in T2 seedlings originated from individual transgenic T1 plants. Homozygous T3 seedlings were subjected to ethylene treatment and immunoblot assays.
