!~ABS~! Kinesin-like calmodulin binding protein (KCBP) is a microtubule motor protein involved in the regulation of cell division and trichome morphogenesis. Genetic studies have shown that KCBP is likely to interact with several other proteins. To identify KCBP-interacting proteins, we used the C-terminal region of KCBP in a yeast two-hybrid screen. This screening resulted in the isolation of a novel KCBP-interacting Ca2+ binding protein (KIC). KIC, with its single EF-hand motif, bound Ca2+ at a physiological concentration. Coprecipitation with bacterially expressed protein and native KCBP, gel-mobility shift studies, and ATPase assays with the KCBP motor confirmed that KIC interacts with KCBP in a Ca2+-dependent manner. Interestingly, although both Ca2+-KIC and Ca2+-calmodulin were able to interact with KCBP and inhibit its microtubule binding activity, the concentration of Ca2+ required to inhibit the microtubule-stimulated ATPase activity of KCBP by KIC was threefold less than that required for calmodulin. Two KIC-related Ca2+ binding proteins and a centrin from Arabidopsis, which contain one and four EF-hand motifs, respectively, bound Ca2+ but did not affect microtubule binding and microtubule-stimulated ATPase activities of KCBP, indicating the specificity of Ca2+ sensors in regulating their targets. Overexpression of KIC in Arabidopsis resulted in trichomes with reduced branch number resembling the zwichel/kcbp phenotype. These results suggest that KIC modulates the activity of KCBP in response to changes in cytosolic Ca2+ and regulates trichome morphogenesis.
!~RES~! Yeast two-hybrid screening was used to identify proteins that interact with the C-terminal portion of KCBP. The yeast strain Y190 (leu−, trp−, his−), with reporter genes lacZ and HIS3 under the control of the GAL1 promoter activated by the GAL4 transcription factor, was used for two-hybrid interaction studies (CITATION). Primers were designed to amplify the coding region of KCBP corresponding to amino acids 860 to 1261, which includes part of the coiled-coil region (amino acids 860 to 875), the motor domain (amino acids 889 to 1217), and the CBD (amino acids 1218 to 1240). The PCR-amplified product was ligated into pAS1CYH2 (pAS1CYH2/KCBP-1.4) as a fusion to the DNA binding domain of GAL4 and into pACT as a fusion to the activation domain of GAL4. Before screening of the yeast two-hybrid library, the interaction of the C-terminal region of KCBP (KCBP-1.4) with itself was assayed using the two constructs. The C-terminal region of KCBP did not interact with itself, suggesting that the short coiled-coil region (15 amino acids) present in the C-terminal region is not sufficient for dimerization (Figure 1). [[FIGURE]] We then transformed the yeast strain Y190 containing pAS1CYH2/KCBP-1.4 with the Arabidopsis cDNA library in pACT vector. Approximately 1 million transformants were plated on selection plates (Leu−, Trp−, and His−) containing 3-aminotriazole. Colonies that grew on selection plates were assayed for β-galactosidase activity. pACT plasmid was isolated from the positive clones and used to transform Y190 alone or Y190-pAS1CYH2/KCBP-1.4. Clones that did not show any β-galactosidase activity in Y190 alone but showed activity in Y190/KCBP-1.4 were chosen for further analysis. These clones were sequenced at the 5′ and 3′ ends using primers flanking the multiple cloning sites in the pACT vector. One of the positive clones that showed β-galactosidase activity only in the presence of KCBP (Figure 1) revealed significant sequence similarity to some Ca2+ binding proteins with one EF-hand motif and bound Ca2+. Therefore, this protein was named KIC. This clone was selected for further analysis because it has some sequence similarity to CaM, a Ca2+ binding protein known to regulate KCBP binding to microtubules, motility on microtubules, and bundling of microtubules (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Because KIC was isolated using the C-terminal region of KCBP, additional two-hybrid assays were performed to determine the specificity of the KIC–KCBP interaction. Yeast transformed with both KIC and full-length KCBP were grown on His− medium and showed β-galactosidase activity, whereas yeast transformed with both KIC and the N-terminal KCBP did not grow on His− medium and showed no β-galactosidase activity on yeast complete medium plates (Figure 1). The KIC cDNA is 556 bp in length and is identical to the predicted cDNA sequence for the Arabidopsis gene At2g46600. There are no introns in the genomic sequence. Based on our data, the ESTs (AV535839, AI998308, and the Ceres full-length cDNA sequence), and the Arabidopsis genome database predictions, the isolated clone corresponds to the full-length cDNA for the gene. The KIC cDNA sequence contains an open reading frame of 405 bp that encodes a protein of 135 residues with a calculated molecular mass of 15 kD. The putative start site is the first Met in the clone. KIC has 20 Asp and 8 Glu residues in the protein sequence, making it an acidic protein with a pI value of 4.1. Domain analysis of KIC using SMART (http://smart.embl-heidelberg.de/) and Interproscan (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/interpro/scan.html) revealed one EF-hand motif. The EF-hand motif is a helix-loop-helix structure that binds a single Ca2+ ion. The loop consists of 12 residues with the pattern X*Y*Z*−Y*−X**−Z. The conserved residues X, Y, Z, −Y, −X, and −Z participate in binding Ca2+, and the nonconserved intervening residues are represented by asterisks. Using KIC as the query in Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) searches, four other proteins with significant sequence similarity were found in plants (two in Arabidopsis, one in wheat, and one in rice). All of these proteins contain between 124 and 135 amino acids and have one EF-hand at a similar location toward the C terminus. Hence, these proteins were named KIC-related proteins (KRPs). In addition, KIC showed similarity to centrins (CITATION). Figure 2A shows an alignment of KIC with KRPs, centrins, and CaMs. KIC is ∼37% similar to plant and animal centrins, and the similarity is limited to the EF-hand region, whereas it is 49 to 62% similar to KRPs. This sequence similarity between KIC and KRPs continues beyond the EF-hand region (Figure 2A). The relationship of KIC to other EF-hand proteins was examined by generating a phylogenetic tree of representative EF-hand proteins from plants and animals. These sequences were aligned and used for a phylogenetic analysis. The resulting tree (Figure 2B) shows that KIC and the KRPs with one EF-hand form a separate group (KIC subfamily) from the other EF-hand proteins. [[FIGURE]] To analyze the expression of KIC, total RNA from flower, leaf, root, and stem was resolved on an agarose gel, blotted onto a nylon membrane, and probed with labeled KIC. Figure 3 shows the ethidium bromide–stained gel and the probed membrane. KIC is expressed in the highest amount in stems and flowers, less in leaves, and very little in roots. The size of the hybridized band corresponds to ∼0.6 kb. [[FIGURE]] Because KIC has a predicted EF-hand motif, we tested its Ca2+ binding properties using a bacterially expressed protein. The full-length KIC cDNA sequence was inserted into pET32a vector, which expresses the KIC protein as an S-tag fusion. The fusion protein is predicted to produce a polypeptide of 33 kD. The expressed proteins were isolated and a polypeptide of ∼33 kD was detected with S-protein in induced extracts but not in uninduced extracts (data not shown). Protein extract prepared from induced cultures containing KIC in pET32a vector was used in experiments to determine its heat stability, its ability to bind a hydrophobic matrix (Phenyl Sepharose), and its Ca2+ binding activity. All of these characteristics have been reported for several Ca2+ binding proteins. Crude extract containing KIC was heated to 95°C, cooled on ice, and centrifuged. The supernatant was assayed by electrophoresis. KIC protein was retained in the supernatant with reduced amounts of bacterial proteins in the lysate (Figure 4A). KIC protein bound to the Phenyl Sepharose column and was eluted with EGTA (Figure 4A). Fractions of crude protein, supernatant from heat-treated extract, and purified protein were electrophoresed on an SDS gel and either stained or blotted onto a membrane. The membrane was overlaid with a buffer containing 45Ca2+ and subsequently washed and exposed to a phosphorimaging screen. Calcium bound only to the bands containing KIC or CaM (used as a positive control) and did not bind any other proteins from the crude fraction or BSA (used as a negative control) (Figure 4A). [[FIGURE]] To test whether the EF-hand motif in KIC is responsible for the Ca2+ binding, two truncated KIC proteins were prepared using PCR: one from the first Met to the beginning of the EF-hand motif (N terminus), and the second from the beginning of the EF-hand motif to the end of the protein (C terminus). Bacterially produced proteins from these constructs were electrophoresed, either stained or blotted onto membranes, and probed with 45Ca2+ as described above. An intense band in the stained gel was evident with each construct (Figure 4B), and these bands were recognized by S-tag protein (data not shown). However, of the two truncated versions, only the C terminus of the protein containing the EF-hand motif bound Ca2+ (Figure 4B), indicating the presence of only one EF-hand motif in KIC. Because KIC binds Ca2+ (Figure 4) and interacts with KCBP in yeast two-hybrid assays (Figure 1), we wondered if Ca2+ plays any role in the interaction of KIC with KCBP. To answer this question, coprecipitation assays with bacterially expressed KIC and KCBP proteins and with Arabidopsis proteins were performed. KIC as a fusion to S-tag and the C-terminal region of KCBP (KCBP-1.4) as a fusion to T7-tag (predicted to produce a polypeptide of 52 kD) (CITATION) were expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) cells. Induced extract of each protein was used in a coprecipitation assay with T7-tag antibody agarose beads. KCBP–T7-tag fusion crude extract was incubated with T7-tag antibody beads. The beads were washed and then incubated with KIC–S-tag crude extract either in the presence of Ca2+ or in the absence of Ca2+ with EGTA. As a control, T7-tag antibody beads also were incubated with KIC–S-tag extract alone. The beads were washed, resuspended in sample loading buffer, and electrophoresed. Gels were stained or blotted, and the blots were probed with either T7-tag antibody to detect KCBP or S-tag protein to identify KIC. As shown in Figure 5A, KIC coprecipitated with KCBP in the presence of Ca2+ but not in the absence of Ca2+ and did not bind T7-tag antibody beads alone. [[FIGURE]] The interaction of KIC and KCBP was further shown by a pull-down assay using native protein from Arabidopsis pollen and young seedlings. Isolated protein was first enriched in KCBP using a CaM Sepharose affinity column. Bacterially purified KIC was bound to S-protein agarose beads, which then were incubated with the protein eluted from the CaM Sepharose column. Incubation was performed in the presence of Ca2+ or EGTA. After washing and elution, protein was electrophoresed, blotted onto membranes, and probed with S-protein to detect KIC or with KCBP antibody to detect KCBP. Full-length KCBP (and some degraded protein) was pulled down only in the presence of KIC and Ca2+ (Figure 5B). In both assays, in the absence of Ca2+ and the presence of EGTA, a Ca2+ chelator, the interaction between KIC and KCBP was abolished. These results confirmed that KIC interacts with the C-terminal region as well as with native full-length KCBP in a Ca2+-dependent manner. Yeast two-hybrid (Figure 1) and coprecipitation (Figure 5A) assays revealed that KIC interacts with the C-terminal region of KCBP, which contains the motor domain and a Ca2+-dependent CBD (CITATION). To test whether KIC, like CaM, interacts with the CBD of KCBP, a 23–amino acid synthetic peptide corresponding to the CBD region of KCBP was used in a gel-mobility shift assay. Purified KIC was incubated with the synthetic peptide in 4 M urea in ratios of 1:0.5, 1:1, and 1:2 (KIC:peptide) in the presence or absence (plus EGTA) of Ca2+. CaM, which is known to bind the peptide, was used as a control. In the presence of Ca2+, there was a shift upward for both KIC and CaM (Figure 6A). In the absence of Ca2+ and the presence of EGTA, there was no shift (Figure 6A). Because both CaM and KIC bind the peptide, a competition assay was performed. Equal concentrations of KIC and CaM were incubated with the peptide. Both proteins again showed a shift; however, the amount of protein shifted at each ratio was decreased for both proteins (cf. lanes 1:2 in Figures 6A and 6B), suggesting that both Ca2+ sensors compete for the same site in KCBP. [[FIGURE]] Previously, we showed that CaM negatively regulates KCBP (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine the effect of KIC on KCBP activity, we analyzed the interaction of KCBP with microtubules in the presence of KIC using cosedimentation assays. KCBP-1.5 containing the CBD cosedimented with microtubules in the presence of Ca2+, CaM, or KIC alone but remained in the supernatant in the presence of both Ca2+ and CaM, Ca2+ and KIC, or Ca2+ plus both KIC and CaM (Figure 7A). Because activated KIC inhibited KCBP interaction with microtubules, we determined the effect of KIC on the microtubule-independent and -dependent ATPase activity of KCBP. The ATPase activity of KCBP in the presence and absence of microtubules was measured as a function of the release of Pi from the hydrolysis of ATP. ATPase activity of KCBP-1.5 in the presence of microtubules plus Ca2+, CaM, or KIC alone was ∼1.4 μmol Pi·mg−1·min−1 (Figure 7B). However, in the presence of microtubules plus Ca2+ and CaM or Ca2+ and KIC, ATPase activity was reduced to a nearly basal level (∼0.2 μmol Pi·mg−1·min−1) (Figure 7B). KIC and/or CaM had no effect on ATPase activity in the absence of Ca2+. As shown in Figure 7B, the level of ATPase activity in the presence of CaM or KIC plus Ca2+ was not lower than the microtubule-independent activity (left lane). Therefore, activated KIC or CaM did not affect the microtubule-independent ATPase activity of KCBP. Because KIC binds the CBD of KCBP, it is likely that the Ca2+-KIC regulation of KCBP is mediated by the CBD. To test this notion, we performed cosedimentation and ATPase assays with KCBP-1.0, which lacks the CBD. Figure 7C shows that KCBP-1.0 cosediments with the microtubules in the presence of KIC or CaM with or without Ca2+; ATPase activity was not inhibited under the same conditions (Figure 7D), suggesting that the CBD confers the Ca2+-KIC regulation of KCBP. [[FIGURE]] Although KIC and CaM differ in the number of EF-hand motifs, both bind the CBD of KCBP in a Ca2+-dependent manner (Figure 6) and have the same effect on microtubule binding and microtubule-stimulated ATPase activities of KCBP (Figure 7). To test whether these Ca2+ sensors differ in the concentration of Ca2+ required for the inhibition of ATPase activity, the microtubule-stimulated ATPase activity of KCBP-1.5 was determined in the presence of equimolar concentrations of KIC or CaM with varying concentrations of Ca2+ (from 100 nM to 5 μM). As shown in Figure 8, the concentration of Ca2+ required for 50% inhibition by KIC was 300 nM, with 100% inhibition being achieved at 1 μM, whereas the concentration required for 50% inhibition by CaM was 510 nM, with 100% inhibition being achieved at 3 μM. These results suggest that the KIC regulation of KCBP activity occurs at a much lower Ca2+ concentration compared with that needed for CaM regulation. [[FIGURE]] The regulation of KCBP by the Ca2+ sensors KIC (with one EF-hand) and CaM (with four EF-hands) (Figures 7 and 8) raises the possibility of the regulation of KCBP by other closely related one-EF-hand KRPs and the four-EF-hand centrins. In Arabidopsis, there are two KRPs and centrins that have similar sequences to the EF-hand region of KIC (Figure 2). Therefore, we tested the microtubule binding and microtubule-stimulated ATPase activities of KCBP by the KRPs (At4g27280 and At5g54490) and a centrin (At4g37010). The three proteins were cloned into pET28 as T7-tag fusions, induced, and purified on a Phenyl Sepharose column (Figure 9A). All three proteins were shown to bind Ca2+ using a 45Ca2+-overlay assay (Figure 9A). However, neither the two KRPs nor the centrin had any effect on the microtubule binding or the microtubule-stimulated ATPase activities of KCBP-1.5 (Figures 9B and 9C). Although these Ca2+ binding proteins are similar to KIC, they do not regulate KCBP, suggesting that only KIC and CaM specifically regulate KCBP motor functions. [[FIGURE]] Transgenic Arabidopsis plants with the CaMV 35S:KIC sense construct were generated to test the in vivo relevance of the interaction between KIC and KCBP and, therefore, the possible effect on KCBP-regulated cellular processes (Figure 10A). Genomic DNA from the transgenic and wild-type plants was used as a template for PCR analysis to confirm the presence of the introduced gene in the transgenic plants. Primer sets were designed to produce a product specific to the introduced gene (CaMV 35S promoter primer/KIC reverse primer; PCR product size, ∼800 bp) and the endogenous and introduced gene (KIC forward/KIC reverse; PCR product size, ∼410 bp). All transgenic plants were positive for the CaMV 35S-KIC reverse primer set and the KIC-specific primer set (Figure 10B). The wild type showed a PCR product only with the KIC forward and reverse primer set, reflecting the presence of the KIC native gene (Figure 10B). Expression of the constructs in transgenic plants was shown using an RNA gel blot. RNA isolated from wild-type and transgenic plants was electrophoresed, blotted, and probed with full-length KIC cDNA and then with a ubiquitin probe. The bands in Figure 10C reflect the presence of both native and transgene KIC transcripts. The expression of KIC was greater in all transformed plants tested, suggesting expression of the introduced gene (Figure 10C). [[FIGURE]] Normally, leaf trichomes have three or four branches (two or three branch points). However, the zwi/kcbp mutant has a distinct trichome phenotype with only one or two branches (zero or one branch point) and a shortened stalk (Figures 11G to 11I) (CITATION; CITATION). The plants overexpressing KIC also showed trichomes with reduced branch numbers. Approximately 25% of the leaf trichomes had only one or two branches (Table 1, Figures 11D to 11F), whereas the wild-type plants had normal trichomes with three or four branches (Figures 11A to 11C). The trichome phenotype in transgenic plants with the CaMV 35S:KIC construct is reminiscent of the zwi/kcbp mutant trichome phenotype, although not as severe. As in the zwi mutant, KIC transgenic plants showed a defect in trichome branch number but no effect on trichome initiation or maturation. [[FIGURE]] Number of Branch Points in Trichomes of Wild-Type, Transgenic (CaMV 35S:KIC), and zwi Plants
!~MM~! The yeast strain Y190 (leu−, trp−, his−) with chromosomally integrated reporter genes lacZ and HIS3 under the control of the GAL1 promoter activated by the GAL4 transcription factor was used to host all constructs. A motor domain subclone of KCBP (amino acids 860 to 1261; KCBP-1.4), including part of the coiled-coil region, the motor domain, and the CaM binding domain, was generated by PCR using primers ACBP F4 (5′-GAAGATCATGATGGCCCAACTTGCTGAGCTAGAATA-3′) and ACBP R5 (5′-AGCGGTCATGACACTATCTGCCTCATCTTTTCG-3′). The amplified PCR product was ligated into pAS1CYH2 as a fusion to the DNA binding domain of GAL4 and verified by sequencing. The pAS1CYH2/KCBP-1.4 vector was used as a bait to screen an Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA library in pACT as a fusion to the activation domain of GAL4. Transformation of Y190 was performed using the Matchmaker Library Protocol (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA). Positive clones were isolated and sequenced. Sequences were used to perform similarity searches using Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST), and predicted protein sequences were analyzed for domains using SMART (http://smart.embl-heidelberg.de/) and Interproscan (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/interpro/scan.html). Yeast two-hybrid interaction assays also were performed using the pACT/KIC plasmid and a pAS1CYH2/N-terminal KCBP construct reported previously (CITATION) and with a pAS1CYH2/full-length KCBP construct generated by digesting the pAS1CYH2/N-terminal construct with AvrII and SalI, which dropped the N-terminal KCBP fragment, and inserting an AvrII-SalI fragment from a full-length KCBP clone in pET28. Total RNA from flowers, stems, leaves, and roots of wild-type plants and leaves of transgenic plants was isolated using Trizol (Gibco BRL) according to the manufacturer's instructions. RNA was resolved by electrophoresis on a 1.2% agarose gel, blotted onto a nylon membrane, and hybridized with 32P-labeled KIC cDNA. The membrane was exposed to a PhosphorImager screen cassette and visualized (Molecular Dynamics, Sunnyvale, CA). Plasmids pET28a/KCBP-1.4 and pET32/KCBP-1.5, each containing the motor domain plus the CBD, and pET28/KCBP-1.0, containing the motor domain without the CBD, were constructed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). CaM2 was prepared as described previously (CITATION). Plasmid pACT/KIC was digested with XhoI, and the insert coding for KIC was ligated into pET32a. KIC subclones were constructed using PCR. Primers were designed to amplify the N-terminal portion from the KIC ATG site to the beginning of the EF-hand motif–coding region (1 to 237 bp) and then from the beginning of the EF-hand motif–coding region to the end of the sequence (217 to 408 bp). The primers, including enzyme cut sites (HindIII and XhoI), were 5′-CGCAAGCTTATGGAACCAACCGAGAAATC-3′ and 5′-CGCCTCGAGAGCATCTTCCTTGCTCATACC-3′ for the N-terminal clone (N-term) and 5′-CGCAAGCTTGGTATGAGCAAGGAAGATG-3′ and 5′-CCGCTCGAGTCAAGGCATAGAAGAGAGATT-3′ for the C-terminal clone (C-term). PCR products were cloned into HindIII-XhoI–cut pET32b to generate constructs pET32b/N-term and pET32b/C-term. The protein coding region of centrin (At4g37010) was amplified by PCR using its EST (170C4) as a template with a forward primer (5′-CGCAAGCTTATGTCGGAAGCAGCACAG-3′) and a reverse primer (5′-CCGCTCGAGTAAGCCGTAAGAGGTTCTC-3′). The coding region of KRP1 (At4g27280) was amplified by PCR using its EST (U14018) as a template with a forward primer (5′-CGCAAGCTTATGGCGTCACCAAAGTCA-3′) and a reverse primer (5′-CCGCTCGAGTCAATGCCGGCGCGTGA-3′). The HindIII-XhoI–digested PCR products of centrin and KRP1 were cloned into the HindIII-XhoI sites of pET28b. The coding region of KRP2 (At5g54490, intronless gene) was amplified by PCR using genomic DNA as a template with a forward primer (5′-CGGGAATTCATGGCATCTCCTAAATCCTCA-3′) and a reverse primer (5′-CCGCTCGAGTCAATGCCGGTAAAACTCTTC-3′). The PCR product was digested with EcoRI-XhoI and cloned into the EcoRI-XhoI sites of pET28a. Escherichia coli DH5α cells were transformed with each construct by electroporation, and the constructs were verified by sequencing and then transferred into BL21 (DE3) E. coli cells. BL21 (DE3) cells transformed with all constructs were cultured to an OD600 of ∼0.6, and the expression of the protein was induced by the addition of 0.2 to 1 mM isopropyl-1-thio-β-d-galactopyranoside. Bacteria were harvested and the pellet was resuspended in one-tenth culture volume of 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, plus lysozyme (100 μg/mL), one-tenth volume of 1% Triton X-100, and complete protease inhibitors (Roche Molecular Biochemicals, Mannheim, Germany). After incubation on ice for 30 min, samples were sonicated five times for 10 s and centrifuged at 12,000g for 15 min at 4°C. The supernatant and pellets of the induced and uninduced cultures were analyzed by SDS-PAGE. Constructs in pET28 are fusions to T7-tag, and constructs in pET32 are fusions to S-tag. Proteins were detected using either T7-tag antibody or S-protein according to the manufacturer's instructions (Novagen, Madison, WI). All Ca2+ binding proteins were purified using a Phenyl Sepharose (Pharmacia) column. Before loading the protein extract, the column was equilibrated with binding buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 5 mM CaCl2, and 0.5 mM DTT). The extract from KIC, KRP1, KRP2, centrin, or CaM2 was loaded onto the column, washed with 50 mM Tris, pH 7.5, 5 mM NaCl, 5 mM CaCl2, and 0.5 mM DTT, eluted with 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 1 mM EGTA, and 0.5 mM DTT, and collected in 1-mL fractions. KCBPs with or without CBD were purified using a CaM Sepharose column or a His-affinity column, respectively, as described (CITATION). Eluted fractions were dialyzed extensively against 50 mM Tris, pH 7.5, and analyzed by 12% SDS-PAGE. The concentrations of KCBP, KIC, KRP1, KRP2, centrin, and CaM2 proteins purified to homogeneity were estimated by the Bradford method (Bio-Rad protein assay kit) using BSA as the standard (CITATION). The protein concentrations obtained by the Bradford method were verified visually on Coomassie Brilliant Blue R250–stained SDS-PAGE gels as described (CITATION). The protein concentrations were further confirmed by silver staining and used in cosedimentation and ATPase assays. Crude bacterial extract containing full-length KIC protein was heated to 95°C for 5 min, placed on ice for 10 min, and centrifuged at 15,000g for 10 min before being purified on the Phenyl Sepharose column. For the full-length KIC overlay assay, crude protein containing bacterially produced KIC protein, supernatant from crude protein heated for 10 min followed by centrifugation, Phenyl Sepharose column–purified KIC along with the purified CaM and BSA were electrophoresed on SDS-denaturing gels. One gel was stained and another was blotted. The blot was incubated in overlay buffer (60 mM KCl, 5 mM MgCl2, and 10 mM imidazole-HCl, pH 6.8) containing 45Ca2+ (1 μCi/mL) (CITATION). After washing, the blot was exposed to a PhosphorImager screen and the autoradiogram was visualized by scanning with a PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics). Crude extracts of KIC N- and C-terminal bacterially produced proteins and purified full-length KIC, KRP1, KRP2, and centrin were electrophoresed, and the gels were stained or blotted and probed with 45Ca2+ as described above. Crude protein containing bacterially expressed KCBP-1.4 (with CBD) as a fusion to T7-tag was added to T7-tag antibody agarose bead slurry (Novagen, Madison, WI) and incubated on an orbital shaker for 1 h at room temperature. The solution was centrifuged, and the beads were washed three times with 10 mL of 1× bind/wash buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, and 0.1% Triton X-100). Then crude pET32a/KIC protein with 10 μM Ca2+ or 5 mM EGTA was added to the washed agarose beads, incubated for 1 h at room temperature, and washed as described above. As a control, T7-tag antibody agarose beads also were incubated with KIC. The T7-tag antibody agarose beads were resuspended in 1× sample buffer (62.5 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 2% SDS, 5% mercaptoethanol, 10% glycerol, and 0.0075% bromphenol blue) and loaded onto 12% SDS polyacrylamide gels. Gels were blotted to nitrocellulose membranes and detected for the presence of KIC (with S-protein) and KCBP (with T7-tag antibody) according to the manufacturer's procedure (Novagen). Total proteins from Arabidopsis flowers, pollen, and young 5-day-old seedlings were extracted with a buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 250 mM sucrose, 5 mM DTT, and complete protease inhibitor mixture. The total soluble proteins were separated by centrifugation and passed through 200-μL CaM Sepharose beads. Then, CaM Sepharose–eluted Arabidopsis proteins were dialyzed against TN buffer (20 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5, and 150 mM NaCl) and incubated with 200 μL of S-protein beads saturated with or without 5 μg of bacterially expressed pure KIC in TN buffer containing either 1 mM CaCl2 or 1 mM EGTA. The S-protein–bound KIC:KCBP complex was washed thoroughly with TN buffer containing either 1 mM CaCl2 or 1 mM EGTA. The KIC:KCBP complex was eluted from S-protein beads by adding 150 μL of SDS-PAGE loading buffer and separated on three SDS gels. One gel was stained and two gels were blotted; one blot was probed with S-protein and the second blot was probed with KCBP antibodies as described (CITATION). A peptide (ISSKEMVRLKKLVAYWKEQAGKK) that corresponds to a stretch of 23 amino acids in the C terminus of KCBP was synthesized previously (CITATION). The interaction of KIC with the synthetic peptide was assayed using the gel electrophoresis mobility shift of KIC in the presence of the synthetic peptide (CITATION; CITATION). KIC or CaM (as a control) was incubated with the synthetic peptide at ratios of 1:0.5, 1:1, and 1:2 in the presence of 4 M urea, 100 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, and 1 mM CaCl2 or 5 mM EGTA. The samples then were electrophoresed on a gel containing 4 M urea and 5 mM EGTA or 1 mM CaCl2. To test for competition between KIC and CaM binding to the CBD of KCBP, 90 pmol of KIC and CaM together were incubated with synthetic peptide (180 or 360 pmol). Each reaction mixture was loaded onto a polyacrylamide gel containing 4 M urea and 1 mM CaCl2. Taxol-stabilized microtubules were prepared essentially as described previously (CITATION), and the microtubule pellet was dissolved in 10× cosedimentation assay buffer (1× = 20 mM Pipes, pH 6.9, 1 mM MgCl2, 1 mM DTT, 150 mM NaCl, and 20 μM taxol). The microtubule motor binding assay was performed in a 100-μL reaction containing 2.5 μM KCBP motor protein (KCBP-1.5 or KCBP-1.0) with or without taxol-stabilized microtubules (CITATION). Where appropriate, 100 μM CaCl2, 15 μM Ca2+ binding protein (KIC, CaM2, KRP1, KRP2, and centrin), 5 mM adenosine 5′-(β,γ-imido)triphosphate tetralithium salt hydrate, or 5 mM ATP also was added. After incubation at 22°C for 20 min, the tubes were centrifuged in a TYPE50 rotor using an L7-55 Ultracentrifuge (Beckman Instruments) for 20 min at 35°C at 100,000g. The supernatant and pellet were separated, mixed with SDS loading buffer, and analyzed by SDS-PAGE. The ATPase activity of the KCBP assay was determined in a 100-μL reaction buffer (15 mM imidazole, pH 7.0, 2 mM MgCl2, and 1 mM DTT) containing 300 nM KCBP-1.5 or KCBP-1.0 with or without 2 μM taxol-stabilized microtubules and 3 mM Mg-ATP (CITATION). CaCl2, one of the Ca2+ binding proteins (KIC, CaM2, KRP1, KRP2, and centrin), and EGTA, to final concentrations of 100 μM, 1 μM, and 2 mM, respectively, also were added in appropriate reactions. ATPase activity was measured using a colorimetric change in malachite green with the release of Pi as described (CITATION; CITATION). ATPase assays also were performed using equimolar concentrations of KIC and CaM as described above at increasing concentrations of Ca2+ from 100 nM to 5 μM. The released Pi was estimated colorimetrically using 1 OD660 = 9.45 nmol of Pi. The ATPase activity of the motor protein was expressed in micromoles of Pi released per milligram of motor protein per minute. All reactions were performed in triplicate. Each experiment was repeated at least three times. Average values obtained from triplicate experiments were analyzed for standard deviations using Microsoft Excel (Redmond, WA). The XhoI-digested KIC full-length cDNA sequence was isolated from the pET32a-KIC construct and cloned into the XhoI site of the binary pBA002 Ti plasmid between the CaMV 35S promoter and the NOS terminator. The orientation of the KIC sequence was verified by digestion with SpeI and by sequencing both strands (Figure 10). The CaMV 35S:KIC sense construct was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 cells. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were generated by vacuum infiltration essentially as described (CITATION). The selection of transgenic plants was performed on CITATION medium containing 5 μg/mL BASTA. Genomic DNA was prepared from transgenic and wild-type Arabidopsis. Genomic PCR was performed with CaMV 35S forward primer (5′-CAGTCTCAGAAGACCAAAGG-3′) and KIC forward and reverse primers, and the PCR products were verified by agarose gel electrophoresis. The fourth pair of leaves of 18-day-old seedlings was fixed in 0.1 M sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, containing 3% glutaraldehyde for 12 h at 4°C. After fixation, leaves were washed with 0.1 M sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, three times for 10 min and then fixed again in 0.1 M sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, containing 1% osmium tetroxide for 2 h. After washing the leaves in 0.1 M sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, two times and in water two times, for 10 min each, the dehydration of leaf material was performed in a graded series of ethanol concentrations (50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 95, and 100%) followed by critical point drying with liquid CO2. The uncoated leaf samples were photographed using a JEOL JSM 6500F field emission scanning electron microscope at an accelerating voltage of 1.5 kV. Upon request, materials integral to the findings presented in this publication will be made available in a timely manner to all investigators on similar terms for noncommercial research purposes. To obtain materials, please contact A.S.N. Reddy, reddy{at}colostate.edu. The accession numbers for the KIC, KRP1, KRP2, and Arabidopsis centrin sequences are AY363866, AY363867, AY363868, and AY363869, respectively. The accession numbers or gene identification numbers for the other sequences shown in Figure 2 are as follows: Arabidopsis CaM2 (At2g41110); Nicotiana tabacum centrins Nt1 (AF072519) and Nt2 (AF072520); Oryza sativa OsKRP (M11253); and Homo sapiens centrins HsCEN1 (U03270), HsCEN2 (X72964), and HsCEN3 (Y12473).
