!~ABS~! In a proteomics-based screen for proteins interacting with cyclin-dependent protein kinase (CDK), we have identified a novel CDK complex containing the eukaryotic translation initiation factor, eIF4A. Reciprocal immunoprecipitations using antibodies against eIF4A indicate that the interaction is specific. The CDKA–eIF4A complex is abundant in actively proliferating and growing cells but is absent from cells that have ceased dividing. The CDKA–eIF4A complex contains kinase activity that is sensitive to the CDK-specific inhibitor roscovitine. This interaction points to a possible molecular mechanism linking cell proliferation with translational control.
!~RES~! CDKA was immunoprecipitated (CITATION ) using an antibody directed to the PSTAIRE region of CDKA (anti-PSTAIRE, Sigma), anti-CDKA and anti-cyclin D3 CITATION (both gifts from J.A.H. Murray). Mouse IgG and a blank immunoprecipitation without antibody were used as controls. Anti-PSTAIRE and anti-CDKA specifically precipitate CDKA, as determined by Western blotting (CITATION) and anti-cyclin D3 co-precipitates CDKA as previously described CITATION. A band corresponding to the predicted molecular weight of CDKA (CITATION, closed arrow) was excised from the gel, cleaved using trypsin and the fragments analysed by MS as previously described CITATION. The MS fingerprint contained eleven tryptic fragments that matched to predicted tryptic fragments of Arabidopsis CDKA (tolerance set to 50 ppm), confirming the identity of CDKA. Another major band at about 45 kDa, marked with an open arrow, was also analysed by MS identification of peptide fragments. The resulting mass fingerprints corresponded to Arabidopsis AteIF4A1 or AteIF4A2 as potential proteins present in that location of the gel. AteIF4A1 and AteIF4A2 are extremely similar, sharing 96% similarity at the amino acid level CITATION and thus they could not be differentiated by the MS fingerprint. To confirm the specificity of this interaction we used eIF4A antibodies to carry out a reciprocal immunoprecipitation and tested for the presence of CDKA. The eIF4A antibody (gift of C. Kuhlemeier) was raised against a tobacco protein so we first tested the specificity of the anti-eIF4A antibody on Arabidopsis extracts. CITATION shows a Western blot of Arabidopsis and tobacco whole cell extracts probed with the eIF4A antibody. This antibody blots a doublet in tobacco, in agreement with CITATION, and cross-reacts with a single band in Arabidopsis whole cell extracts. The band recognised by the antibody in Arabidopsis extracts has the predicted molecular weight for eIF4A proteins (AteIF4A1 and AteIF4A2 which are both 47 kDa). This antibody was then used to probe the CDKA immunoprecipitations originally used to identify eIF4A by MS. In this way, we confirmed the presence of eIF4A in the anti-PSTAIRE immunoprecipitation and showed that it is absent in both controls, immunoprecipitation with mouse IgG and without antibody (CITATION, lanes 3 and 4). Finally, we performed a reciprocal immunoprecipitation using the anti-eIF4A antibody to immunoprecipitate eIF4A and then used Western blotting to determine if CDKA co-precipitates. CITATION shows that CDKA is present in the anti-eIF4A immunoprecipitations, confirming the interaction. Next, we measured the histone H1 kinase activity associated with eIF4A and compared this to the total kinase activity as isolated by other methods. In CITATION, p13suc1 pellets the maximal histone H1 kinase activity, probably representing multiple CDK-related complexes. The anti-CDKA pellet has less kinase activity than p13suc1 precipitates, and is considerably more sensitive to the CDKA-specific inhibitor roscovitine. The p13suc1 precipitate requires in excess of 5 μM roscovitine for inhibition, suggesting the presence of diverse kinases, whereas the anti-CDKA-associated kinase activity is sensitive to only 0.5 μM roscovitine, suggesting a smaller pool of more specific kinase. In all of the experiments the selective CDKA inhibitor roscovitine was used to determine the activity of CDKA as opposed to other histone H1 kinases. The anti-cyclin D3 antibody precipitates only CDKA activity bound to cyclin D3 CITATION, and reveals a significantly lower kinase activity reflecting the fact that the antibody targets a single cyclin and therefore precipitates a small subpool of CDKA kinase activity. Anti-eIF4A also precipitates roscovitine-sensitive histone H1 kinase activity. Anti-eIF4A isolates a smaller amount of kinase activity compared to that precipitated by p13suc1 or anti-CDKA, but is comparable to that isolated by anti-cyclin D3. To test if CDKA is a component of the eIF4F mRNA cap-binding complex, we isolated the cap complex from cell extracts using 7m-GTP Sepharose beads. Sepharose 7m-GTP is commonly used to purify the eIF4F complex CITATION. We found that eIF4A could be intermittently detected by Western blot (CITATION). However, CDKA was never detected bound to 7m-GTP beads, whether eIF4A was present or not (CITATION). Both CDKA and eIF4A are constitutively expressed in both proliferating and non-proliferating cells CITATION (CITATION ), but their function is regulated by phosphorylation, protein localisation and protein–protein interactions. Therefore, we examined if and how the interaction between CDKA and eIF4A changed during the growth cycle. Over the course of eight days the Arabidopsis culture goes through a characteristic growth cycle CITATION: a lag phase before day 1, followed by an exponential growth phase from days 2 to 4, then a cessation of cell division and an increase in biomass from days 5 to 7. Finally, after day 7, the cell enters stationary phase. For each day we prepared protein extracts and performed an anti-PSTAIRE immunoprecipitation on those extracts. CITATION shows Western blots on the whole cell extracts prior to immunoprecipitation. The amount of CDKA (anti-PSTAIRE) remains constant for the first 4 days and then declines slightly, cyclin D2 is constant from days 2 to 4, before becoming undetectable as the mitotic index of the culture declines. Despite this decline in mitosis the eIF4A protein remains at a constant level from days 2 through 7, suggesting that the regulation of eIF4A function is post-translational. When CDKA was immunoprecipitated (CITATION) a constant amount of CDKA was precipitated from days 2 through 7. However, the amount of eIF4A co-precipitating with CDKA between days 2 and 5 varied with the age of the cell culture; as the cell began to exit the cell cycle around day 5 the amount of CDKA–eIF4A declined and was undetectable at day 6.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis cultures were maintained as described in CITATION. Cells were subcultured weekly into fresh Murashige and Skoog’s medium with 3% (w/v) sucrose, 0.5 mg/l NAA and 0.05 mg/l kinetin. Extracts were prepared using a modified protocol from CITATION. Protein extracts were prepared by grinding 4-day-old Arabidopsis cells to a fine powder in liquid nitrogen. The powder was resuspended in ‘extraction buffer 1’ (50 mM Tris–HCl pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM EDTA, 5 mM NaF, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100) or in ‘extraction buffer 2’ for kinase assays (25 mM Tris–HCl pH 8.0, 10 mM MgCl2, 15 mM EGTA, 75 mM NaCl, 1 mM dithiothreitol (DTT), 1 mM NaF, 0.5 mM Na3VO4, 15 mM β-glycerophosphate, 15 mM 4-nitrophenylphosphate, 0.1% (v/v) Tween-20, 0.5 mM PMSF, 5 μg/ml leupeptin, 5 μg/ml aprotinin). The mixture was centrifuged (18 000×g, 20 min) and then used for immunoprecipitation. For immunoprecipitations, 7m-GTP Sepharose and p13suc1 affinity purification, protein extracts were added onto 40 μl of protein G beads (Sigma) with 5–20 μl of antibody or 7m-GTP Sepharose (Amersham) or p13suc1 beads made as described CITATION. This mixture was incubated at 4°C overnight. The beads were washed four times with bead buffer (50 mM Tris–HCl p H8.0, 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM EGTA, 5 mM NaF, 0.01% (v/v) NP-40). The proteins were eluted from the beads with Laemmli sample buffer and boiled for 5 min. Kinase assays were performed using a protocol modified from CITATION. Immunoprecipitations were performed as above, except the protein G beads were washed with kinase wash buffer (20 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 15 mM MgCl2, 5 mM EGTA, 1 mM DTT). Once washed the beads were incubated for 30 min in kinase wash buffer supplemented with 74 kBq 32P[ATP], 10 mM ATP, 1 mg/ml histone H1 (GibcoBRL). The reaction was stopped with the addition of Laemmli sample buffer. Final extracts were run on 12.5% SDS–PAGE gels and radioactive incorporation was detected using X-OMAT film (Kodak). Proteins were identified from gels by mass spectrometry (MS) as described previously CITATION.
