!~ABS~! We have isolated a dominant, auxin-insensitive mutant of Arabidopsis thaliana, massugu2 (msg2), that displays neither hypocotyl gravitropism nor phototropism, fails to maintain an apical hook as an etiolated seedling, and is defective in lateral root formation. Yet other aspects of growth and development of msg2 plants are almost normal. These characteristics of msg2 are similar to those of another auxin-insensitive mutant, non-phototropic hypocotyl4 (nph4), which is a loss-of-function mutant of AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR7 (ARF7) (CITATION). Map-based cloning of the MSG2 locus reveals that all four mutant alleles result in amino acid substitutions in the conserved domain II of an Auxin/Indole-3-Acetic Acid protein, IAA19. Interestingly, auxin inducibility of MSG2/IAA19 gene expression is reduced by 65% in nph4/arf7. Moreover, MSG2/IAA19 protein binds to the C-terminal domain of NPH4/ARF7 in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae (yeast) two-hybrid assay and to the whole latter protein in vitro by pull-down assay. These results suggest that MSG2/IAA19 and NPH4/ARF7 may constitute a negative feedback loop to regulate differential growth responses of hypocotyls and lateral root formation.
!~RES~! We tested 74,000 M2 seeds (progeny of 44,000 M1 seeds) of mutagenized A. thaliana Columbia ecotype for the auxin-induced growth curvature response using lanolin containing 100 μM indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). This screen resulted in isolation of seven mutants. Genetic characterization indicated that four of the mutants carried a recessive mutation in the NPH4 locus, which were named nph4-104 to nph4-107 (CITATION). The other three mutants represent independent dominant alleles at a different locus. We designated these mutants msg2-1 to msg2-3. We identified another dominant mutant from screening of 66,000 M2 seeds (progeny of 27,000 M1 seeds) by assaying the growth resistance of hypocotyls to 1-naphthaleneacetic acid. This mutant was another allele of msg2, which we designated msg2-4. We found no significant differences in phenotype in the four msg2 alleles. We first examined the growth curvature response of hypocotyls of the wild type and msg2-1 mutants induced by unilateral application of lanolin paste containing various concentrations of IAA. As shown in Figure 1A, growth curvature of the wild-type hypocotyls was increased in proportion to the concentration of IAA from 1 to 100 μM, then reduced at 300 μM IAA as reported previously (CITATION). By contrast, hypocotyls of msg2-1 were unable to bend in response to any concentration of IAA from 1 to 300 μM. The unresponsiveness of msg2-1 to IAA is essentially the same as that observed in nph4-102 (CITATION). We next examined the time course of hypocotyl gravitropism of etiolated seedlings grown initially on vertically oriented plates for 3 d and then reoriented 90° (Figure 1B). Rapid upward bending was observed in the wild-type hypocotyls for the initial 2 h after the start of gravistimulation; slower upward bending followed thereafter. Hypocotyls of nph4-1, which is a null allele of NPH4/ARF7 (CITATION), responded to gravity much slower than the wild type, displaying a curvature only a third as intense as the wild type at 6 h. msg2-1 hypocotyls responded even more weakly to gravity, exhibiting only a slight upward bending at 6 h. [[FIGURE]] As shown in Figure 1C, we also examined hypocotyl phototropism in etiolated seedlings in response to long-term irradiation. Development of the phototropic curvature was slower in nph4-1 hypocotyls than the wild type, and the steady state curvature reached at 6 h after the start of unilateral irradiation with blue light was approximately half of that of the wild type. Hypocotyls of msg2-1 displayed a response approximately half as intense as nph4-1. Lastly, we examined the maintenance of the apical hook in etiolated seedlings over time (Figure 1D). In the wild type a tightly closed hook was observed 2 d postgermination (DPG), after which gradual opening occurred from 2 to 4 DPG. Hooks of nph4-1 seedlings were more opened than those of the wild type at 2 DPG, and they remained more open than the wild type thereafter. msg2-1 hypocotyls exhibited a little more open hook structure than nph4-1 during the entire time period examined. These results showed that msg2-1 was defective in the same four differential growth responses of the hypocotyl previously described for the nph4 mutants and that msg2-1 defects were as severe, or more severe, than those of nph4. Effects of 2,4-D on hypocotyl and root growth were determined in an aqueous medium (Figure 2). Growth of hypocotyls was inhibited by 2,4-D in a dose-dependent manner in the wild type. msg2-1 and nph4-1 hypocotyls were more resistant to 2,4-D than those of the wild type, with msg2-1 possibly being slightly more resistant than nph4-1 (Figure 2A). Sensitivity of msg2-3 hypocotyls to the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid, the synthetic cytokinin 6-benzylaminopurine, and abscisic acid was also examined. msg2-3 was found to be as sensitive as the wild type to these compounds (data not shown), which is also the case for nph4-102 (CITATION). By contrast, neither msg2-1 nor nph4-1 roots showed any resistance to 2,4-D (Figure 2B). These results indicate that hypocotyls of msg2 were specifically resistant to auxin and that roots of msg2 are as sensitive as the wild type to auxin, as is the case for nph4 mutants. [[FIGURE]] Figure 3 shows the wild type (Figures 3A and 3C) and msg2-1 (Figures 3B and 3D) as adult flowering plants (Figures 3A and 3B) and light-grown seedlings (Figures 3C and 3D). The msg2 plants are similar in size and morphology to the wild type, the only exception being slightly lowered fecundity as a result of a delay in mature fruit production (data not shown). Rosette leaves of msg2 were similar to those of the wild type, in contrast to what is observed in many auxin-insensitive mutants, in which hyponasty (nph4-103 [CITATION], suppressor of long hypocotyl2 [shy2] [CITATION; CITATION], and bdl [CITATION]), epinasty (nph4-1 [CITATION] and nph4-102 [CITATION]), or wrinkled leaves have been observed (auxin-resistant1 [axr1]; CITATION). Hypocotyls and roots of msg2-1 seedlings grown under continuous white light and in darkness were as long as those of the wild type (data not shown); they also displayed normal root hair proliferation (Figures 3C and 3D). [[FIGURE]] On the other hand, the formation of lateral roots was strongly inhibited in msg2-1 (Figures 3C, 3D, and 4). It was also inhibited in nph4-1 to a lesser extent than in msg2-1 (Figure 4; E.L. Stowe-Evans and E. Liscum, unpublished data). msg2-1 did not initiate normal numbers of lateral roots in response to exogenous IAA. However, msg2-1 was not completely insensitive to IAA because it produced more lateral roots upon auxin treatment. By comparison, nph4-1 showed similar reduced sensitivity to exogenous IAA with respect to lateral root formation (Figure 4). [[FIGURE]] The MSG2 locus was mapped to the upper arm of chromosome 3 near nga162 using cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) molecular markers. More precise mapping with polymorphic markers derived from P1 clone ends located MSG2 between two P1 clones, MJK13 and MSJ11. In 752 chromosomes examined, five and two recombinants were found at the proximal (MJK13LB) and distal (MSJ11RB) markers, respectively. No recombinants were found with the closest molecular marker, MJK13RB. The CITATION revealed that a member of the Aux/IAA gene family, IAA19 (CITATION), is located on MJK13, ∼3 kb from the MJK13RB marker. Using oligonucleotide primers synthesized according to the genomic DNA sequence of the Columbia ecotype, IAA19 was amplified from the four msg2 alleles and sequenced. The results showed that msg2-1 contains a single nucleotide change predicted to cause an amino acid substitution from Pro-76 to Ser (Figure 5), which had been reported to occur in another dominant Aux/IAA mutation, solitary-root/iaa14 (CITATION). Substitutions from Pro-76 and Pro-75 to Leu were observed in msg2-3 and msg2-4, respectively, which had been also observed for axr3-1/iaa17 (CITATION) and iaa28-1 (CITATION), respectively. Overexpression of iaa1 with the Pro-75 to Leu substitution has been shown to cause aberrant phenotypes similar to these mutations (CITATION). For msg2-2, a substitution from Gly-73 to Arg was found. An analogous Gly to Glu substitution has been found in shy2-3/iaa3 (CITATION). Together, all of the msg2 alleles had mutations in the five amino acid residue–long region of domain II, where all the dominant Aux/IAA gene mutations have been found previously (Figure 5). These results indicate that MSG2 gene encodes IAA19. [[FIGURE]] A full-length cDNA of MSG2/IAA19 gene was isolated by the use of 5′ rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE). The cDNA obtained started 76 bp upstream of the first ATG codon. A TATAA box–like sequence was found 34 bp upstream of the transcription start site, and three copies of the canonical AuxRE, TGTCTC (CITATION), were found 151, 168, and 207 bp upstream of the start site, respectively. Because MSG2/IAA19 has been shown auxin inducible (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we examined dose–response curve and time course of auxin induction of MSG2/IAA19 in dark-grown seedlings with RNA gel blot analysis. mRNA levels of MSG2/IAA19 started to increase at 0.3 μM IAA and reached a plateau at 3 μM IAA, where approximately threefold induction was observed (Figure 6A). Auxin induction of MSG2/IAA19 was rapid; accumulation of MSG2/IAA19 mRNA was obvious 15 min after the start of IAA treatment and reached a maximal level after the treatment for 60 min (Figure 6B). [[FIGURE]] Auxin induction of MSG2/IAA19, together with the similarity of the msg2 and nph4 phenotypes, prompted us to ask whether the auxin inducibility of MSG2/IAA19 is dependent on NPH4/ARF7 function. As shown in Figure 6C, RNA gel blot analysis indicates that the steady state mRNA level of MSG2/IAA19 increases 2.7-fold after treatment with 50 μM IAA for 1 h. The MSG2/IAA19 mRNA level was not affected significantly by nph4-1 mutation when seedlings were not treated with IAA, however the auxin-induced increase in MSG2/IAA19 abundance is ∼65% reduced in the nph4-1 background relative to the wild type. These results confirmed that MSG2/IAA19 is an auxin-inducible gene and demonstrate that NPH4/ARF7 is a major factor responsible for auxin inducibility of MSG2/IAA19 gene expression in etiolated seedlings. When MSG2/IAA19 transcript expression in different organs was examined by RNA gel blot analysis, the highest steady state level of mRNA was observed in hypocotyls of etiolated seedlings (Figure 6D). No transcript was detected in roots, leaves, or flowers, whereas moderate signal was observed in inflorescence stems. These observations are consistent with phenotypes observed for msg2 mutants, namely that most defects are associated with etiolated hypocotyls. To gain a more precise picture of MSG2/IAA19 expression patterns, an IAA19 promoter:β-glucuronidase (GUS) fusion was introduced into the wild-type A. thaliana, and expression of the gene was examined histochemically. As shown in Figure 7A, transgenic seedlings grown in darkness in the absence of exogenous auxin exhibited intense GUS staining within the central stele of the hypocotyl, although epidermis, cortex, and endodermis of hypocotyls were also stained, especially in the apical region. Faint staining was observed in vascular tissues in the cotyledons and within the central stele of roots. Though root tips were not stained, columella root caps were sometimes stained weakly (data not shown). When treated with 50 μM IAA for 3 h, the GUS staining was increased in the entire region of the hypocotyl and root, with strongest staining in hypocotyl vasculature and the elongation zone of root tips (Figure 7B). [[FIGURE]] Figure 7C demonstrates that GUS staining was generally weaker in light-grown seedlings as compared with etiolated seedlings, and that staining is almost entirely limited to vasculature in the hypocotyls, petioles of cotyledons, and the stele of roots. Faint staining was also observed at the very tip of young lateral roots (Figure 7C, arrowhead). Almost no staining was observed in cortical tissues. Upon treatment with IAA, the staining in the vasculature of aerial organs and the stele of roots increased with strong signals in root tips and petioles of cotyledons (Figure 7D). Cortical cells in the hypocotyl also showed staining. IAA-treated roots showed intense GUS staining in elongation zone and a cell layer around the vasculature (Figure 7E). In the basal part of IAA-treated primary roots, early primordia of lateral roots, which are judged as stage I primordia (CITATION) from anticlinal cell divisions, exhibited the staining (Figure 7F). These observations suggest that MSG2/IAA19 expression occurs in pericycle cells of roots after auxin treatment. In an attempt to determine more specifically the function of MSG2/IAA19, we performed screen for loss-of-function mutants in T-DNA (Biotechnology Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI; CITATION) and transposon (Sainsbury Laboratory, John Innes Centre, Norwich, UK; CITATION) insertion lines of A. thaliana. Mutant lines obtained from the former and the latter populations were named msg2-21 and msg2-22, respectively. In msg2-21, a T-DNA was found to be inserted 165 bp upstream of the transcription start site, in the center of one of the three AuxREs in the IAA19 promoter. No MSG2/IAA19 mRNA signals were detected by RNA gel blot analysis of etiolated msg2-21 seedlings in the absence of auxin, and only a slight signal was observed after treatment with 50 μM IAA for 3 h (data not shown). In msg2-22, a transposon is inserted in the second exon of MSG2/IAA19, which changes the amino acid sequence of IAA19 after Gly-111 in domain IV. RNA gel blot analysis of msg2-22 showed that a longer, less abundant mRNA is produced in etiolated msg2-22 seedlings not treated with auxin. As observed with the msg2-21 mutant, the abundance of the altered msg2-22 transcript increased upon auxin treatment (data not shown). These results suggest that msg2-21 and msg2-22 likely represent loss-of-function mutants of MSG2, although neither may be null alleles. Yet neither mutant exhibited any significant changes in the four differential growth responses for which the alterations were observed in the dominant msg2/iaa19 mutants (data not shown). In the case of the loss-of-function mutations of SHY2/IAA3, a subtle phenotypic change was observed, such as increased lateral root formation, increased wavy root curvature, and accelerated root reorientation (CITATION). msg2-21, however, displayed normal root growth in a similar condition (data not shown). These results may suggest that other Aux/IAA proteins function redundantly with MSG2/IAA19, as has also been hypothesized for other Aux/IAA proteins, including SHY2/IAA3 (CITATION). We examined expression of IAA4 (AtAux2-11) (CITATION; CITATION), DFL1 (CITATION), and SAUR-AC1 genes (CITATION) in msg2-1 background by RNA gel blot analysis (Figure 8). These genes belong to auxin early gene families Aux/IAA, GH3, and SAUR, respectively. In the wild-type seedlings, mRNA level of each gene was increased by treatment with 50 μM IAA for 1 h as reported previously. However, in msg2-1 seedlings induction by auxin treatments was reduced for each gene. These results indicated that the msg2-1 mutation partially blocked expression of the auxin early genes tested. Reduced SAUR-AC1 and IAA4 expression has also been observed previously in nph4 null mutants by RNA gel blot analysis (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We also checked expression of msg2/iaa19 gene in its dominant mutant background and obtained similar results, namely msg2/iaa19 negatively autoregulated its own gene (Figure 8). Essentially the same results have been reported for SHY2/IAA3 (CITATION; CITATION) and AXR2/IAA7 (CITATION). The phenotypes of the dominant msg2/iaa19 mutants have been found to be very similar to those of loss-of-function nph4/arf7 mutants, with defects generally being restricted to differential growth responses of the hypocotyl and the formation of lateral roots. These findings, together with the knowledge that domain II mutations increase the abundance of Aux/IAA proteins (CITATION), raise the possibility that the msg2 defects may arise from suppression of ARF7 function by formation of a more stable ARF7-iaa19 heterodimer. In an attempt to address this question, we used an S. cerevisiae two-hybrid assay to determine if IAA19 and ARF7 could physically interact. IAA1, IAA6, and IAA13 were also used as potential interacting proteins. IAA6 is most similar to IAA19 of the 29 Aux/IAA proteins with respect to their primary structure of domains III and IV, the ARF-interacting domain, whereas IAA1 and IAA13 are rather remotely related to IAA19 (CITATION). ARF5/MP and ARF8 were also used in the assay, as they are closely related to ARF7 with respect to amino acid sequence of their CTDs. ARF7 is composed of an N-terminal DBD, transcriptional activator MR, and protein-interacting CTD (CITATION; CITATION). We first checked whether a truncated ARF7 protein consisting of just the MR and CTD (ARF7 MR-CTD) could activate transcription of β-galactosidase (LacZ) reporter gene when fused to GAL4 DBD. The GAL4 DBD-ARF7 MR-CTD activated the reporter gene expression approximately half as strongly as did GAL4 protein (data not shown). When only CTD of ARF7 was fused to GAL4 DBD, expression of the reporter gene was not induced significantly (Figure 9B, bars 1 and 2). These results are consistent with the previous observation that ARF7 promotes transcription of reporter gene in transient assay of Daucus carota (carrot) protoplasts (CITATION). The strong activation capacity of ARF7 MR-CTD ruled out the use of the construct in the S. cerevisiae two-hybrid assay, and the fusion protein between ARF7 CTD and GAL4 DBD was used for further experiments to estimate interaction between ARF7 and Aux/IAA proteins. [[FIGURE]] Although the GAL4 DBD-ARF7 CTD fusion proteins alone did not stimulate reporter gene expression (Figure 9B, bar 2), cotransformation of S. cerevisiae cells with GAL4 DBD-ARF7 CTD and GAL4 activation domain (AD)-ARF7 CTD constructs increased LacZ activity significantly (Figure 9B, bar 3), indicating homotypic interaction between ARF7 CTD. However, when GAL4 AD-IAA19 proteins were introduced into S. cerevisiae instead of GAL4 AD-ARF7 CTD, much stronger activation of the reporter genes was observed (Figure 9B, bar 4). Because transformation of GAL4 AD-IAA19 alone did not induce expression of the reporter genes (Figure 9B, bar 8), this result demonstrates heterodimer formation between ARF7 CTD and IAA19. Furthermore, heterodimerizations of ARF7 CTD with the other Aux/IAA proteins, IAA1, IAA6 or IAA13, were also detected to a similar extent (Figure 9B, bars 5 to 7). We also examined whether a dominant mutation of MSG2/IAA19 affected its heterotypic interaction with ARF7 CTD. S. cerevisiae cells harboring both msg2-1/iaa19 and ARF7 CTD constructs exhibited LacZ activity as strong as that observed with the wild-type IAA19 and ARF7 CTD constructs (data not shown), indicating that the amino acid substitution occurring in msg2-1 protein did not affect molecular interaction between MSG2/IAA19 and ARF7 CTD. Essentially the same conclusion has been made on interaction between axr3-1/iaa17 and ARF1 or ARF5/MP (CITATION). The same two-hybrid experiments were performed for ARF5 and ARF8 CTDs. ARF5 CTD interacted with IAA19 as strongly as did ARF7 CTD (Figure 9B, bars 12 to 14). ARF5 CTD also showed similar capacity to heterodimerize with the other Aux/IAA proteins (Figure 9B, bars 15 to 17). In the case of ARF8 CTD no significant homotypic interaction was detected (Figure 9B, bars 18 and 19), yet strong heterodimerization between ARF8 CTD and IAA19 was observed as indicated by the significant reporter activity (Figure 9B, bar 20). Similar heterodimer formation was observed between ARF8 CTD and the other Aux/IAA proteins (Figure 9B, bars 21 to 23). Finally, we examined the capacity of the Aux/IAA proteins to homodimerize because strong interactions were observed for heterodimerization between the Aux/IAA proteins and the ARF CTDs. The results presented in Figure 9B (bars 24 to 31) show that the capacity of each Aux/IAA protein to form homodimers was similar to their capacity to form heterodimers with the ARF CTDs. To confirm interaction between MSG2/IAA19 and NPH4/ARF7 CTD observed above, pull-down assays were performed using His-tagged MSG2/IAA19 and FLAG-tagged NPH4/ARF7 expressed in Escherichia coli (Figure 10). Crude extracts of E. coli expressing each protein were mixed, and protein complexes were precipitated with anti-FLAG antibody. When crude extracts of E. coli harboring an empty plasmid were mixed with those expressing recombinant His6-MSG2, no MSG2 was detected by anti-His6 antibody in the immunoprecipitates. However, both MSG2 and NPH4 were observed in them when crude extracts of E. coli cells expressing a NPH4 fusion protein were mixed with those expressing MSG2 fusion protein. These results showed that MSG2 proteins could physically interact with NPH4 proteins in vitro. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! M2 seeds of A. thaliana ecotype Columbia, mutagenized with ethyl methanesulfonate, were obtained from Lehle Seeds (Round Rock, TX). Seeds were first imbibed in water in the dark at 4°C for 2 d. They were surface-sterilized as described by CITATION and sown on nutrient agar plates that contained half-strength MS salts, 1% (w/v) sucrose, half-strength B5 vitamin (CITATION), 1% (w/v) agar, and 2.3 mM Mes, pH 5.8. Plants were grown at 23°C under continuous illumination at a fluence rate of 8.2 W m−2 obtained from three 40-W white fluorescent tubes (FL40SW; Mitsubishi-Osram, Yokohama, Japan). In some experiments, plants were grown on a 1:1 (v/v) mixture of vermiculite:Metromix 350 (Scotts-Sierra, Marysville, OH). All msg2 mutants were backcrossed twice to Columbia wild type before further analysis. Hypocotyl curvature tests were performed as described by CITATION. In brief, after induction of germination, seedlings were grown in a row on the nutrient agar plate under dim white light at 0.24 W m−2 for 30 to 36 h to promote hook opening and elongation of hypocotyls. After unilateral application of the lanolin containing IAA to hypocotyl, the seedlings were grown for 12 to 15 h under dim red light. They were then laid on agar plate, and an image of them was taken by an image scanner (GT-7600U; Epson, Suwa, Japan). The angle was determined digitally from the image using appropriate software (NIH Image or Image-Pro Plus; Media Cybernetics, Silver Spring, MD). To determine gravitropism of hypocotyls, seedlings were grown on vertically oriented plates for 3 d in the dark and then turned 90° to a horizontal position. For second-positive phototropism, 3-d-old etiolated seedlings grown as above were irradiated with unilateral blue light at a fluence rate of 0.1 μmol·m−2·s−1 obtained by blue light–emitting diodes (λmax = 470 ± 30 nm; Stick-B16, Tokyo Rikakikai, Tokyo, Japan). An image of the seedlings was taken with a digital camera (C-4040 Zoom; Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) at different times under dim green light. For determination of growth curvature maintained in hook structure, seedlings were grown in the dark on horizontally held agar plates. They were then laid on agar plate, and an image was captured with a digital camera. Seedlings were grown hydroponically in the above-mentioned nutrient medium without agar. For determination of 2,4-D resistance of hypocotyls, seeds, after the cold treatment and surface-sterilization, were placed in the medium under continuous white light at 8.2 W m−2 at 23°C for 24 h to induce germination. After the medium was exchanged for a medium supplemented with various concentrations of 2,4-D, seedlings were further grown in darkness for 5 d. 2,4-D was added to the medium before germination when growth of roots was examined. Seedlings were fixed with 5% formaldehyde and 10% acetic acid before measurement of length of the hypocotyls and the roots. The genetic location of msg2 was established by determining the linkage between the mutant gene and codominant CAPS (CITATION), derived CAPS (CITATION), or simple sequence length polymorphisms (CITATION). A homozygous msg2-1 plant (ecotype Columbia) was crossed to a wild-type plant (ecotype Landsberg), and the resulting F1 plants were allowed to self-fertilize to generate an F2 population. The F2 population was scored for segregation by the hypocotyl curvature response using lanolin containing 100 μM IAA. CAPS markers, MJK13RB and MSJ11RB, were generated in the southern ends of P1 clones MJK13 and MSJ11, respectively. For MJK13RB marker, PCR was performed using a forward primer, 5′-ACGTACTTTTGGATTCGTTCAAGCC-3′, and a reverse primer, 5′-AAACAACTGCAGCTGAAGCAAGCCC-3′. Digestion of the 1973 bp-long PCR product with DdeI yielded a 666 bp-long fragment in Columbia, whereas the fragment was digested into two smaller fragments in ecotype Landsberg. For MSJ11RB marker, PCR was performed with a forward primer, 5′-TGGTAAGCTATGCAATTGG-3′, and a reverse primer, 5′-GATCTGTCTTTCCTTTTTTG-3′. Digestion of the 2012 bp-long PCR product with MboII resulted in a ∼990 bp-long fragment in Landsberg. By contrast, the fragment was divided into 529 bp- and 462 bp-long fragments in Columbia. A derived CAPS marker, MJK13LB, was created in the northern end of MJK13. PCR was performed using a forward primer, 5′-CCCTAAACCCTTCCCTCTCTTTATATTAGC-3′, and a reverse primer, 5′-ATTTTTGATCGCAGTGTACTGGGACTGATC-3′. The 74 bp-long PCR product was digested into two smaller fragments with TaqαI only in Landsberg. To sequence msg2 mutant alleles, IAA19 gene was amplified from msg2 mutants in three independent PCRs. The primers were 5′-CATAATTGTATCAAATTGTGAGAGG-3′ and 5′-AAACCATAACATGAAATTTTGTTGC-3′; they were designed based on the complete DNA sequence of the IAA19 gene from Columbia (The CITATION). PCRs were performed using Expand High Fidelity PCR system (Boehringer Mannheim, Basel, Switzerland). The amplified genomic DNA fragments were cloned into pT7Blue vector (Novagen, Darmstadt, Germany) using DNA ligation kit, version 2 (Takara, Kusatsu, Japan). Sequencing reactions were performed using Thermo Sequenase primer cycle sequencing kit 7-deaza dGTP (Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK), and denaturing gel electrophoresis was run by a DNA sequencer (4000L; LI-COR, Lincoln, NE). Total RNA was extracted from A. thaliana tissues using the SDS/phenol methods as described by CITATION or RNeasy Plant Mini kit (QIAGEN, Hilden, Germany). Total RNA (20 μg) was subjected to electrophoresis in a 1.2% agarose gel that contained 2.2 M formaldehyde (CITATION), and RNAs were vacuum transferred to nylon membrane (Hybond-N+; Amersham) with 1 M ammonium acetate for 1 h. The membrane was treated with 0.05 M NaOH for 5 min to fix RNA and washed twice for 5 min with 2 × SSPE buffer. 32P-labeled probes for cDNA were synthesized by random-primer method with Megaprime DNA-labeling kit (Amersham). The membrane was hybridized with the probe, and RNA signal detected as described previously (CITATION). RNA gel blot analysis was performed with at least three independent RNA samples. The 5′ end of IAA19 cDNA was determined by 5′ RACE by the use of5′-Full RACE Core set (Takara) according to the manufacturer's directions. First-strand synthesis was primed using a 5′ phosphorylated gene-specific primer, 5′-TTGGCTCGAACCAAGATCCATCTT-3′, and total RNA as a template. After ligation with T4 RNA ligase, nested PCR was performed. Primers for the first PCR were 5′-CGGTTTGTTCTTACCGGAAGAAAA-3′ and 5′-CGACGCCGCTTTCACATTGATCAC-3′; those for the second PCR were 5′-GTAAGGAAGCTTCGACCACGAAAG-3′ and5′-TACCCGACGACGTCATATTCATCT-3′. The PCR products were cloned into pT7Blue and sequenced as described above. To construct the IAA19 promoter:GUS reporter plasmid, a 2051-bp fragment of genomic DNA including the upstream region of IAA19 was amplified from Columbia genomic DNA using the IAA19 promoter forward primer, 5′-CCATCTAGATAACTAACCGAAAACATAAGC-3′, and the IAA19 promoter reverse primer, 5′-CCGTCTAGATTCTTGAACTTCTTTTTTTCC-3′ (XbaI sites are underlined), and cloned into pBI-H1 (CITATION). The amplified sequence and junctions of the construct were confirmed by sequencing. The plasmids were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain pGV2260 by electroporation, which was then used to inoculate the wild-type Columbia plants by flower dip method (CITATION). Three dozen T1 plants were screened on medium containing 20 μg/mL hygromycin. GUS expression was examined by incubating seedlings in 100 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, containing 1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-glucuronide, 5 mM K3Fe(CN)6, 5 mM K4Fe(CN)6, 1 mM EDTA, and 0.1% Tween-20 at 25°C for 24 h. Seedlings were dehydrated and rehydrated by passing through a graded ethanol series to remove chlorophyll. After immersion in clearing solution (chloral hydrate:glycerol:water = 100 g:10 g:25 mL), they were observed with a microscope (Zeiss Axioplan [Zeiss, Jena, Germany] or Leica MZ12 [Leica Microsystems, Wetzlar, Germany]) equipped with a digital camera (DXM1200; Nikon, Tokyo, Japan). We screened gene-disruption lines from the collection in Sainsbury Laboratory, John Innes Centre, Norwich, United Kingdom (CITATION), and Biotechnology Center, University of Wisconsin (CITATION). In the former collection, a pool of 50 lines had been identified by Sainsbury Laboratory, which contained a line carrying a defective-Spm (dSpm) element in IAA19 gene. The IAA19 insertion line was screened by PCR using two IAA19-specific primers, 5′-CATGAATTCATGGAGAAGGAAGGACTCGGG-3′ and 5′-CCCGAATTCTCTTTCTGAAGATAATTATGC-3′ (EcoRI sites are underlined), and two dSpm-specific primers, dSpm1 and dSpm11 (CITATION). The position of the dSpm insertion was determined by sequencing the PCR products amplified between dSpm11 and the former IAA19-specific primer. PCR screening of the collection of University of Wisconsin was performed by the use of a IAA19-specific primer, 5′-TTAAATTAATGAACCAGCTCCTTGCTTCT-3′, and a T-DNA specific JL-202 primer, 5′-CATTTTATAATAACGCTGCGGACATCTAC-3′. We measured nucleotide sequence of the PCR products amplified using the IAA19 promoter reverse primer described above and JL-202 primer to determine a position of T-DNA insertion. The molecular interactions between Aux/IAA and ARF proteins were analyzed with the MATCHMAKER two-hybrid system (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA). DNA fragments for the proteins were amplified by PCR methods, and the PCR products were cloned into pGBT9 and pGAD424 vectors. The amplified sequences and the junctions of all constructs were confirmed by sequencing. S. cerevisiae SFY526 was used as the host strain for the S. cerevisiae two-hybrid system (CITATION). All vectors were cotransformed into S. cerevisiae cells according to the manufacturer's instruction (the lithium acetate method). The transformants were selected on the synthetic dropout minimal medium plates, free of Trp and Leu. The liquid LacZ assay was performed withO-nitrophenyl β-D-galactopyranoside as substrate, according to the procedure provided by Clontech. A full-length predicted open reading frame for ARF7 fused in frame with the FLAG tag at 3′ terminus was subcloned into vector pBluescript II KS+ (pBS-ARF7-FLAG; Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). A full-length predicted open reading frame for IAA19 was cloned in frame into the 6× His-tagged expression vector pET15b (Novagen, Madison, WI). Fifty milliliters of E. coli BL21 cells carrying each plasmid were grown at 30°C to an OD of ∼0.6 and then induced with 0.4 mM isopropyl-β-D-thiogalactopyranoside for 3 h. Crude extracts of BL21 cells were prepared by disruption of cells by freezing and thawing, microcentrifugation for 15 min, and passage through a Sephadex G-25 column (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala, Sweden) equilibrated with 50 mM Tris-HCl buffer, pH 7.5, containing 150 mM NaCl, 0.5% Nonidet NP-40, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 5 mM benzamidine, 5 μg/mL leupeptin, 5 μg/mL pepstatin, and 5 μg/mL aprotinin. Crude extracts containing each of the ARF7-FLAG and His6-IAA19 proteins were mixed and incubated at 4°C with gentle agitation for 13 h. Volume and total protein contents of the mixture were 1.0 mL and 2.4 mg, respectively. Then, 10 μL of anti-FLAG M2 agarose beads (Sigma, St.Louis, MO) were added and further incubated for 6 h in the same condition. The beads were collected by brief centrifugation, washed three times in the above buffer, and eluted with 50 μL of the above buffer containing 100 μg/mL FLAG peptide. The eluate was subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting with anti-FLAG M2 antibody (Sigma) or anti-poly His antibody (Sigma) and alkaline phosphatase conjugated with anti-mouse IgG goat antibody (Jackson Immunoresearch, West Grove, PA).
