!~ABS~! Lipoic acid-dependent pathways of α-keto acid oxidation by mitochondria were investigated in pea (Pisum sativum), rice (Oryza sativa), and Arabidopsis. Proteins containing covalently bound lipoic acid were identified on isoelectric focusing/sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis separations of mitochondrial proteins by the use of antibodies raised to this cofactor. All these proteins were identified by tandem mass spectrometry. Lipoic acid-containing acyltransferases from pyruvate dehydrogenase complex and α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex were identified from all three species. In addition, acyltransferases from the branched-chain dehydrogenase complex were identified in both Arabidopsis and rice mitochondria. The substrate-dependent reduction of NAD+ was analyzed by spectrophotometry using specific α-keto acids. Pyruvate- and α-ketoglutarate-dependent reactions were measured in all three species. Activity of the branched-chain dehydrogenase complex was only measurable in Arabidopsis mitochondria using substrates that represented the α-keto acids derived by deamination of branched-chain amino acids (Val [valine], leucine, and isoleucine). The rate of branched-chain amino acid- and α-keto acid-dependent oxygen consumption by intact Arabidopsis mitochondria was highest with Val and the Val-derived α-keto acid, α-ketoisovaleric acid. Sequencing of peptides derived from trypsination of Arabidopsis mitochondrial proteins revealed the presence of many of the enzymes required for the oxidation of all three branched-chain amino acids. The potential role of branched-chain amino acid catabolism as an oxidative phosphorylation energy source or as a detoxification pathway during plant stress is discussed.
!~RES~! A number of the putative lipoyl-containing proteins predicted from plant genome sequencing have very similar molecular masses. As a consequence, their presence could not be differentiated readily by one-dimensional PAGE using antibodies raised against lipoic acid (data not shown). However, after two-dimensional isoelectric focusing (IEF)/SDS-PAGE, a large series of protein spots immunoreactive to antilipoic acid antibodies were detected in mitochondrial samples from pea, rice, and Arabidopsis (Fig. 1). These proteins were excised from gels and identified by MS/MS (Table I).   [[FIGURE]]    Identification of lipoic acid-containing proteins in plant mitochondria  Protein spots from Figure 1 were identified by MS/MS Spot no., accession no. of matching gene, description of matching gene, and the apparent molecular masses of the match and the experimental proteins are shown. The quality of the MS match is shown by the MOWSE score from Mascot matching (typically >40 is P < 0.05), percentage coverage of the match protein sequence by the peptides identified and the number of matching peptides (MP). Searches were performed with MS tolerance of 1.2 D and MS/MS tolerance of 0.6 D. Arabidopsis and rice proteins were all matched to genes from the same species. Pea peptides were matched with identical peptides in several other species. The complement of prominent lipoic acid proteins in pea mitochondria has been well studied and includes an 80-kD E2 subunit of PDC (Fig. 1, P1), a 50-kD E2 subunit of PDC (Fig. 1, P2/P3), and a 55-kD E2 subunit of KGDC (Fig. 1, P4). In pea, the extra spots on either side of the main identified proteins are probably urea-induced modifications of the major proteins (based on charge separations, molecular mass, and the abundance distributions of the spot string features). We could not identify these addition spots because of their low abundance. The other small protein spots shown but not identified were not able to be located on the paired colloidal Coomassie-stained gel. In rice, no high-molecular mass lipoyl-containing protein of 70 to 80 kD was present, in agreement with the absence of this two-lipoyl domain subunit in other monocots including maize (Zea mays), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and barley (Hordeum vulgare; CITATION; CITATION). The various 50- to 60-kD proteins detected by the antibodies in rice included three different isoforms of the one-lipoyl domain PDC E2 subunit and a single KGDC E2 subunit. Five of the protein spots in this size range (Fig. 1, R1, R4, R6, R9, and R10) appeared to have been generated from a single PDC E2 subunit gene, suggesting that posttranslational modification of this gene product beyond simple lipoic acid attachment occurs. In Arabidopsis mitochondria, the two-lipoyl domain 80-kD subunit of PDC was readily detected, and mass spectrometry (MS) revealed that it was the product of At3g52200. A number of subunits of approximately 50 kD were also analyzed and found to include two separate, one-lipoyl domain PDC E2 subunits (A2 and A3) and the KGDC E2 subunit (A6). The A5 spot was encoded by At3g25860, putatively a plastid PDC E2. Given the very low abundance of this protein, it seems likely that it may represent plastid contamination (approximately 1.5% of the protein in our Arabidopsis mitochondrial samples is plastidic in origin; CITATION; CITATION). In both rice and Arabidopsis, one of the immunoreactive 50-kD proteins was identified as the E2 subunit of BCKDC (A7 and R2). This suggested that, in contrast to pea shoot mitochondria, Arabidopsis cell culture mitochondria and rice shoot mitochondria contain appreciable amounts of BCKDC. The apparent absence of BCKDC in pea leaf mitochondria may help to explain previous failures to detect BCKDC activity in this tissue (CITATION) but is in conflict with the radiolabeled substrate tracer data from pea shoot mitochondria (CITATION). Consensus between these three reports may be reached by simply suggesting BCKDC in pea mitochondria is very low in abundance. To further investigate the presence of BCKDC in plant mitochondria, we measured α-keto acid-dependent NAD+ reduction by mitochondrial samples from the three species. Samples from all three species exhibited significant rates of pyruvate- and α-ketoglutarate-dependent NAD+ reduction. However, using three substrates for BDKDC commonly used in mammalian mitochondria (α-ketoisovaleric acid, α-ketoisocaproic acid, and α-keto-β-methylvaleric acid), only Arabidopsis mitochondria catalyzed significant rates of NAD+ reduction (Table II). These α-keto-acids are the products of transamination reactions from the branched-chain amino acids, Val, Leu, and Ile, respectively. We also observed that BCKDC activity was inhibited by inclusion of 0.05% (w/v) Triton X-100 in assays (data not shown), suggesting that there is a detergent-labile step in the reaction. In contrast, PDC and KGDC reactions tolerate high Triton X-100 concentrations (CITATION; CITATION). Provision of exogenous pig E3 to the activity assay in the presence of Triton X-100 did not recover BCKDC activity, suggesting that the lability was not simply caused by loss of E3. Loss of this subunit can be a problem with assays of E1:E2:E3 complexes from some organs (CITATION; CITATION). As a consequence, BCKDC activity was measured in freeze-thawed mitochondrial samples in the presence of respiratory inhibitors to prevent NADH oxidation.    Spectrophotometric assays of PDC, KGDC, and BCKDC in three species  Data represent the mean ± se of at least three mitochondria preparations and are expressed as nanomoles NADH per minute per milligram of protein. Branched-chain amino acid catabolism by Arabidopsis mitochondria was investigated further by measuring O2 consumption in the presence of selected substrates. The TCA cycle substrates pyruvate and α-ketoglutarate both initiated substantial rates of O2 consumption as expected (Table III). Simple addition of other α-keto acids to mitochondria did not trigger any O2 consumption. This could have been because of either the lack of transporters for these compounds or because the lack of a membrane potential in de-energized mitochondria did not allow uptake by available transporter routes. Energization of the membrane by adding a pulse of exogenous NADH (that was rapidly consumed) allowed subsequent assessment of branched-chain α-keto acid-dependent O2 consumption after substrate entry to the mitochondria. Only the α-keto acid derived from Val (α-ketoisovaleric acid) supported oxygen consumption in this assay (Table III). To assess the oxidation pathway from branched-chain amino acids directly, aliquots of Val, Leu, and Ile were added to mitochondria during α-ketoglutarate oxidation by mitochondria. The availability of α-ketoglutarate as an amino acceptor is essential for BCAT transamination of the branched-chain amino acids in the first step of the pathway. We consistently observed a stimulation of α-ketoglutarate-dependent O2 consumption in the presence of Val and Leu (Table III). Together, these results indicate that a low but significant rate of branched-chain amino acid catabolism can occur in Arabidopsis mitochondria.    O2 consumption by amino acids and branched-chain acids in Arabidopsis  Data represent the mean ± se of at least three mitochondria preparations and are expressed as nanomoles O2 per minute per milligram of protein. The experimental data presented in Tables II and III demonstrate some level of amino acid catabolism in isolated mitochondria, but they do not show that this process continues to completion to yield acetyl-CoA or propionyl-CoA. Convincing evidence that a Leu pathway exists in vivo has been presented previously in 14C tracer experiments (CITATION); however, similar experiments have not been carried out examining the Val or Ile pathways in plant mitochondria. The most pressing issue now is to identify the genes encoding the proteins involved in these pathways in plant mitochondria and to assess the presence of components unique to the Val and Ile catabolism. In total, 13 different enzymes or enzyme complexes are involved in the pathways for Val, Leu, and Ile metabolism (Fig. 2), and sequence similarity searches of the Arabidopsis genome revealed that multigene families exist for most enzymes. A total of 51 Arabidopsis genes encoding proteins with similarity to these enzymes or subunits were found (data not shown). Proteomic analysis of Arabidopsis mitochondria by LC-MS/MS showed that only 11 of these genes encode the enzymes present in mitochondrial preparations from Arabidopsis cell cultures (Table IV). As noted earlier, these Arabidopsis mitochondrial preparations are known to contain a small amount of plastid and peroxisomal contamination (CITATION), and the possibility that some of these identifications might result from the presence of abundant proteins from other cellular locations cannot be ruled out.   [[FIGURE]]    Identification of Leu, Ile, and Val catabolism enzymes in Arabidopsis mitochondria  LC-MS/MS analysis of peptides derived from trypsination of total mitochondrial proteins. Gene name and description are shown along with the matched sequence, the ProID score of the match (confidence), the mass of the experimental identified peptides (mass), and the difference between this mass and the matched peptide theoretical mass (delta mass). Other reports of these proteins in mitochondria from Arabidopsis are: 1, Fujiki et al. (CITATION); 2, Millar et al. (CITATION); 3, Kruft et al. (CITATION); 4, Sweetlove et al. (CITATION); 5, Daschner et al. (CITATION); and 6, Che et al. (CITATION). There are five enzymes common to the initial stages of catabolism of all three branched-chain amino acids: the transaminase (BCAT), BCKDC, IVD, enoyl-CoA hydratase (E-CoAH; EC 4.2.1.18), and the ETF accepting electrons from IVD. Peptide sequences corresponding to each of these proteins were obtained from the cell culture mitochondria (Table IV). We have reported sequences for some of these proteins previously from two-dimensional gel separations of Arabidopsis mitochondria (CITATION), and some have been found in mitochondria from other plant species (CITATION; CITATION), whereas six represent novel identifications of proteins localized to mitochondria. The BCAT identified here as mitochondrial (At5g65780) has been ascribed to the plastid previously, on the basis of GFP tagging of the presequence, and it is possible that plastid contamination of the mitochondrial samples we used for proteomic analysis accounts for our identification of it. However, this protein may represent a genuinely dual-targeted protein localized to both organelles by an ambiguous targeting presequence or, as shown for other dual-localized proteins, alternative transcription start sites (CITATION). However, the different results may also reflect the different tissue types used or the involvement of the passenger protein (removed during GFP fusion construction) in protein targeting (CITATION). Further experimentation is required to resolve the in vivo location of this gene product. Leu metabolism proceeds by an intermediary step, catalyzed by MCCase, before E-CoAH formation, and we were able to identify the β-subunit of this enzyme in Arabidopsis mitochondria from an IEF/SDS-PAGE-separated gel spot (Table IV). The presence of both the β- and α-subunit for the mitochondrial MCCase in Arabidopsis also has been reported previously by Che et al.(CITATION). After E-CoAH formation, the hydroxy-acyl-CoAs branch to form separate catabolic pathways for the three branched-chain amino acids (Fig. 2). A single lyase step splits hydroxylmethylglutaryl-CoA to yield acetoacetate and acetyl-CoA in the final step of Leu catabolism. Notably, a single copy of this enzyme (corresponding to At2g26800) is encoded in Arabidopsis and is predicted to be mitochondrial targeted by TargetP, Predotar, and MitoProtII (data not shown). We identified peptides matching At2g26800 in our LC-MS/MS experiments (Table IV). Although we have no convincing MS evidence for the presence of the next step in Ile metabolism or the next two steps in Val metabolism in mitochondria, we were able to obtain MS matches corresponding to the enzymes catalyzing the final step in each pathway (Table IV). Val metabolism proceeds by HIB-CoAH (EC 3.1.2.4) and HIBDH (EC 1.1.1.31). The first of these enzymes is probably peroxisomal in Arabidopsis, and mutation of the primary isoform (chy1 mutant) leads to both impaired Val catabolism and fatty acid β-oxidation (CITATION). The HIB-CoAH protein sequences in Arabidopsis all have PTS1-like peroxisomal targeting sequences at the C termini. The localization of HIBDH in Arabidopsis is less clear, and three members of the HIB-CoAH gene family in Arabidopsis encode proteins strongly predicted to be mitochondrial by multiple targeting prediction programs (data not shown), but we were not able to experimentally confirm this localization. We found sequences corresponding to methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.27), which catalyzes the final step of Val conversion to propionyl-CoA, in our mitochondrial preparations, confirming previous results (CITATION). Propionyl-CoA is subsequently converted to succinyl-CoA, which can then enter the TCA cycle (CITATION). Ile metabolism proceeds from hydroxy-acyl-CoAs via β-oxidation catalyzed by 3-hydroxy-2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase (HMB-CoADH, EC 1.1.1.178), which is incorporated into the fatty acid multifunctional protein. In Arabidopsis, two isoforms of multifunctional protein exist (At3g29010, At3g06860) as well as a shortened form, predicted by sequence similarity to only have HMB-CoADH activity (At3g15290). All three predicted proteins contain PTS1-like C termini strongly suggesting peroxisomal localization. The final step of Ile pathway is catalyzed by acetyl-CoA C-acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.9). This ketoacyl-CoA thiolase has PTS2-like domains at the N terminus, also suggesting a possible peroxisomal location, but we found peptides from this protein in mitochondria (Table IV). This enzyme was also identified as a very significant protein in Arabidopsis mitochondrial preparations by Kruft et al. (CITATION). Thus, this enzyme may also be dual targeted to both organelles, or there may be a mitochondrial-specific isoform among the small ketoacyl-CoA thiolase family. The isoform found is predicted to be mitochondrial by several targeting prediction programs (data not shown). Interestingly, single-amino acid alterations of the rat peroxisomal ketoacyl-CoA thiolase presequence leads to dual targeting to peroxisomes and mitochondria (CITATION). This suggests that dual targeting of proteins containing apparently PTS-2-like sequences is possible.
!~MM~! A heterotrophic Arabidopsis cell culture, established from callus of ecotype Landsberg erecta stem explants, was cultured in Murashige and Skoog basal media supplemented with 3% (w/v) Suc, 0.5 mg L–1 naphthaleneacetic acid, and 0.05 mg L–1 kinetin, and maintained in 250-mL conical flasks in the dark at 22°C in an orbital shaker (150 rpm). At 6 to 7 d, each flask contained 8 to 10 g fresh weight cells, and growth was approximately in the middle of the log phase. Batches of 200 g of rice (Oryza sativa cv Amaroo) seed were washed in 1% (w/v) bleach for 10 min, rinsed in distilled water, and grown in the dark in vermiculite trays (30 × 40 cm) at a constant 30°C, watered daily, and coleoptile tissue harvested at 7 d for mitochondrial isolation. Pea (Pisum sativum L. cv Green Feast) plants were germinated in vermiculite and grown in controlled environment chambers with a light intensity of 700 μmol m–2 s–1 at 24°C and 65% humidity for 10 d on a 16-/8-h day/night cycle. Mitochondria were isolated according to published methods for Arabidopsis (CITATION), pea (CITATION), and rice (CITATION). Marker enzymes studies of Arabidopsis mitochondria according to this method reveal approximately 1.5% contamination by plastid proteins and approximately 0.2% contamination by peroxisomal proteins (CITATION; CITATION). O2 consumption by isolated mitochondria was measured in a Clark-type O2 electrode (Rank Bros., Cambridge, UK) in 1-mL volume. For mitochondria, the reaction medium contained: 0.3 m mannitol, 10 mm TES-KOH (pH 7.5), 5 mm KH2PO4, 10 mm NaCl, 2 mm MgSO4, and 0.1% (w/v) bovine serum albumin. Pyruvate (10 mm), α-ketoglutarate (10 mm), malate (0.5 mm), Leu (10 mm), Ile (10 mm), Val (10 mm), α-ketoisocaproic acid (10 mm), α-keto-β-methylvaleric acid (10 mm), α-ketoisovaleric acid (10 mm) ADP (0.1–1 mm), ATP (0.5 mm), NAD (0.5 mm), TPP (0.05 mm), and CoA (0.06 mm) were added as indicated to modulate O2 consumption rates of mitochondria. The activity of PDC, KGDC, and BCKDC was measured as the formation of NADH at 340 nm and 25°C using a Cary 300Bio spectrophotometer (Varian, Palo Alto, CA). The reaction medium contained 70 mm TES-KOH (pH 7.5 for PDC and BCKDC and pH 7.0 for KGDC), MgCl2 (2 mm), TPP (0.2 mm), NAD (2 mm), CoA (0.12 mm), and Cys (20 mm). When assaying PDC activity, 0.05% (w/v) Triton X-100 and pyruvate (1 mm) were added. To measure KGDC activity, 0.05% (w/v) Triton X-100, α-ketoglutarate (1 mm), AMP (0.5 mm), and 2 units of pig lipoamide dehydrogenase (EC 1.8.1.4) were also included. The reactions to measure BCKDC activity also included KCN (0.5 mm), n-propylgallate (0.05 mm), and myxothiazol (2.5 μm), and as substrate α-ketoisocaproic acid (1 mm), α-keto-β-methylvaleric acid (1 mm), or α-ketoisovaleric acid (1 mm). Kinetic values are presented as mean ± se (n = 3). IEF sample buffer consisted of 6 m urea, 2 m thiourea, 2% (w/v) CHAPS, 2% (v/v) ampholytes (pH 3–10), 2 mm tributylphosphine, and 0.001% (w/v) bromphenol blue. Aliquots of 330 μL were used to reswell dried 180-mm (pH 3–10) nonlinear immobilized ph gradient strips (Immobiline DryStrips, APBiotech, Sydney) overnight, and then IEF was performed for 19.5 h reaching a total of 49 kV h–1 at 20°C on a flat-bed electrophoresis unit (Multiphor II, APBiotech). Immobilized ph gradient strips were then transferred to an equilibration buffer consisting of 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 6.8), 4 m urea, 2% (w/v) SDS, 0.001% (w/v) bromphenol blue, and 100 mm β-mecaptoethanol and incubated for 20 min at room temperature with rocking. The equilibrated strips were then slotted into central single wells of 4% (w/v) acrylamide stacking gels above 0.1 × 18.5 × 20 cm, 12% (w/v) acrylamide, and 0.1% (w/v) SDS-polyacrylamide gels. Gel electrophoresis was performed at 100 V with circulating cooling (4°C) and completed in 5 h. Proteins were visualized by colloidal Coomassie (G250) staining. For immunodectection, separated proteins were electroblotted onto a nitrocellulose membrane and incubated with primary antibodies to lipoic acid. A chemiluminescence detection system linked to horseradish peroxidase was used as a secondary antibody, and quantitative light emission was recorded using a Luminescent Image Analyser (LAS 100, Fuji, Tokyo). Q-TOF MS/MS was performed on an Applied Biosystems Q-STAR Pulsar (Q-TOF MS) using an IonSpray source (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA). Protein spots to be analyzed were cut from the two-dimensional PAGE gel, dried at 50°C in a dry block heater, and stored at –70°C. Protein spots were harvested and prepared for analysis by MS according to Sweetlove et al. (CITATION). The MS/MS collision data derived from samples were analyzed with Mascot (http://www.matrixscience.com) and the Pro ID MS/MS analysis component of Analyst QS (Applied Biosystems). An in-house database comprising The Institute for Genomic Research and National Center for Biotechnology Information Arabidopsis proteins sets was searched with resulting MS/MS data at error tolerances of MS ± 0.15 D and MS/MS ± 0.05 D for ProID and at the default settings of MS ± 1.2 D and MS/MS ± 0.6 D for Mascot. Where MS/MS peptide matches were less than 98% confidence, manual interpretations of the spectra were undertaken to confirm the protein match. For LC-MS/MS, mitochondrial samples of approximately 500 μg were acetone precipitated at –20°C over night. The resulting precipitated protein pellet was resuspended in 100 mm Tris-HCl (pH 8.5). The protein lysate was digested overnight at 37°C with 1/10 (w/w) trypsin and insoluble material removed by centrifugation. Digested samples of 15 to 20 μg were analyzed on a Q-STAR Pulsar (Q-TOF MS) system (Applied Biosystems) utilizing an inline Agilent 1100 capillary LC system incorporating a Zorbax C18 reverse-phase column (Agilent, Palo Alto, CA) for peptide separations. Peptides were analyzed by the MS over a 10-h elution period with increasing acetonitrile concentrations from 2% to 80% (v/v) in water and 0.1% (v/v) formic acid. Ions were automatically selected for the N2 collision cell by the Analyst QS software package (Applied Biosystems). MS/MS-derived spectra were analyzed using the procedures outlined above.
