!~ABS~! Eukaryotes regulate the effective dosage of their ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes, expressing fewer than half of the genes at any one time. Likewise, genetic hybrids displaying nucleolar dominance transcribe rRNA genes inherited from one parent but silence the other parental set. We show that rRNA gene dosage control and nucleolar dominance utilize a common mechanism. Central to the mechanism is an epigenetic switch in which concerted changes in promoter cytosine methylation density and specific histone modifications dictate the on and off states of the rRNA genes. A key component of the off switch is HDT1 , a plant-specific histone deacetylase that localizes to the nucleolus and is required for H3 lysine 9 deacetylation and subsequent H3 lysine 9 methylation. Collectively, the data support a model in which cytosine methylation and histone deacetylation are each upstream of one another in a self-reinforcing repression cycle.
!~RES~! To test the hypothesis that subsets of rRNA gene promoters differ in methylcytosine content, possibly correlated with alternative transcriptional states, the positions of methylated cytosines were mapped in A. thaliana rRNA gene promoters using bisulfite-mediated DNA sequencing CITATION . Bisulfite catalyzes the conversion of cytosine to uracil, a reaction that is blocked if the cytosine is methylated. Sequence analysis of 67 independent A. thaliana rRNA gene promoter clones, amplified by PCR following bisulfite treatment of purified genomic DNA, revealed that most promoters were extensively methylated CITATION in all cytosine contexts (CpG, CpNpG, CpNpN). A less abundant class of promoters was sparsely methylated overall and completely unmethylated in the region previously defined as the minimal promoter CITATION . To ascertain whether rRNA genes with hypermethylated or hypomethylated promoters are organized in functionally distinct chromatin environments, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) using antibodies recognizing specific histone modifications or pol I was followed by treatment with McrBC. Only DNA that is methylated at two or more cytosines is digested by McrBC CITATION . PCR was then used to amplify the rRNA gene promoter region. A PCR product is obtained only if the promoter template DNA is not “chopped up” by McrBC. Our shorthand notation for this assay is thus ChIP-chop-PCR. A. thaliana rRNA gene promoter DNA is immunoprecipitated using antibodies specific for histone H3 trimethylated on lysine 4 (H3 trimethyl K4), a known epigenetic mark of transcriptionally active protein-coding genes ( CITATION , lane 4) CITATION . Treatment of H3 trimethyl K4-immunoprecipitated DNA with McrBC prior to PCR amplification had no significant effect on the abundance of the PCR product ( CITATION , lane 5), indicating that H3 trimethyl K4-associated promoters are hypomethylated. Ribosomal RNA gene promoter DNA is also immunoprecipitated by antibodies specific for H3 dimethyl K9 ( CITATION , lane 6), a known epigenetic mark of transcriptionally inactive heterochromatin. McrBC treatment eliminated the ability to amplify rRNA gene promoters in chromatin precipitated by the H3 dimethyl K9-specific antibodies, indicating heavy DNA methylation ( CITATION , lane 7). ChIP-chop-PCR was also carried out following immunoprecipitation with a pol I antibody ( CITATION , lanes 8 and 9). Promoter DNA of rRNA genes associated with pol I was resistant to McrBC cleavage (lane 9), indicating that the active genes are hypomethylated. Collectively, the data of CITATION show that rRNA genes whose promoters are hypomethylated associate with H3 trimethyl K4 and pol I, indicating that these are the active subset of rRNA genes. By contrast, promoters that are hypermethylated associate with H3 dimethyl K9 and are presumably silenced. To test the hypothesis that H3 dimethyl K9 is a mark of silenced rRNA genes, we exploited the fact that one parental set of rRNA genes is silenced in genetic hybrids that display nucleolar dominance. In A. suecica , the allotetraploid hybrid of A. thaliana and A. arenosa CITATION , the rRNA genes inherited from A. thaliana are transcriptionally silenced whereas rRNA genes derived from A. arenosa are transcribed CITATION and thus dominant ( CITATION , column 2; compare results with the two probes). Importantly, the silencing of A. thaliana -derived rRNA genes in A. suecica is reversed by treatment with the DNA methylation inhibitor, 5′-aza-2′-deoxycytosine (aza-dC) or the histone deacetylase inhibitor, trichostatin A (TSA) ( CITATION , columns 3–5). Transcription of the dominant A. arenosa rRNA genes is also upregulated 2- to 3-fold by aza-dC and TSA, suggesting that the mechanisms responsible for silencing the A. thaliana -derived rRNA genes are also responsible for dosage control among the dominant set. Determination of the histone modifications associated with silenced and dominant rRNA genes in A. suecica was evaluated using ChIP followed by dot blotting and hybridization to species-specific probes corresponding to the ∼3 kb intergenic spacers CITATION . In mock-treated (control) A. suecica , only background amounts of the silenced A. thaliana rRNA genes were precipitated with the antibody specific for H3 trimethyl K4 ( CITATION , see column 5). Instead, the A. thaliana rRNA genes associate with H3 dimethyl K9 (see column 6). By contrast, the dominant A. arenosa rRNA genes associate with both H3 trimethyl K4 and H3 dimethyl K9. These data confirm that H3 dimethyl K9 is an epigenetic mark of silenced rRNA genes. The data further suggest that only some of the dominant A. arenosa rRNA genes are active and associated with H3 trimethyl K4, whereas the remainder are presumably excess, silenced (dosage controlled), and associated with H3 dimethyl K9. Consistent with these interpretations, treatment of A. suecica with TSA or aza-dC, which derepress the underdominant A. thaliana -derived rRNA genes and upregulate the dominant A. arenosa genes (see CITATION ), caused the loss of H3 dimethyl K9 association and a switch to H3 trimethyl K4 association both for the A. thaliana - and A. arenosa -derived rRNA genes. To verify that silenced rRNA genes are marked by H3 dimethyl K9 whereas active rRNA genes associate with H3 trimethyl K4, the two A. thaliana -derived NORs and the six A. arenosa- derived NORs of A. suecica CITATION were examined in interphase cells by a combination of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and histone immunolocalization CITATION . As shown in CITATION , two of the major heterochromatic loci enriched for H3 dimethyl K9 (A) correspond to the two A. thaliana NORs (B and C). Other major H3 dimethyl K9-positive loci correspond to condensed pericentromeric heterochromatin, which stains more intensely with DAPI than does euchromatin (D and E). By contrast, the antibody specific for H3 trimethyl K4 interacts with decondensed euchromatin interspersed throughout interphase nuclei, with condensed heterochromatic domains appearing as dark holes (F). The silenced A. thaliana NORs (G) account for two of these dark holes (H). These data confirm and extend the ChIP-chop-PCR and ChIP dot blot results by showing that entire silenced NORs spanning millions of base pairs are enriched for the heterochromatic mark, H3 dimethyl K9, and are depleted for the euchromatic mark, H3 trimethyl K4. Assuming that transcribed coding regions are nucleosomal, we deduce that these rRNA coding sequences associate with histones displaying the same modifications as the intergenic regions that were assayed by ChIP. Analysis of the A. arenosa -like NORs in A. suecica by FISH and immunolocalization CITATION revealed that the dominant class of rRNA genes colocalize with both H3 dimethyl K9 and H3 trimethyl K4, in agreement with the ChIP data of CITATION . The A. arenosa -derived NOR FISH signals were found to partially, but not completely, overlap H3 dimethyl K9-positive domains (A–C), suggesting that portions of the NORs are H3 dimethyl K9-positive heterochromatin. The A. arenosa NORs also overlap the euchromatic regions enriched for H3 trimethyl K4 (F–H). Collectively, these data are consistent with the interpretation that only a subset of the dominant A. arenosa rRNA genes is active, decondensed, and associated with H3 trimethyl K4 in A. suecica whereas the remaining excess, inactive fraction is condensed, heterochromatic, and associated with H3 dimethyl K9. We next tested whether or not promoter DNA methylation was tightly correlated with H3K9 dimethylation in nucleolar dominance in A. suecica , as was the case in the pure species A. thaliana (refer to CITATION ). To do so, chromatin isolated from A. suecica was tested using the ChIP-chop-PCR assay using primers that specifically amplify either the A. thaliana - or the A. arenosa -derived rRNA gene promoters CITATION . In mock-treated (control) A. suecica , A. thaliana rRNA gene promoter DNA was not amplified from the chromatin immunoprecipitated with antibodies against H3 trimethyl K4 (columns 4 and 5) but was enriched within the chromatin immunoprecipitated with antibodies against H3 dimethyl K9 (columns 6 and 7), consistent with all previous results. Importantly, the A. thaliana rRNA gene promoter region could not be amplified by PCR if the chromatin immunoprecipitated with antibodies against H3 dimethyl K9 was first treated with McrBC (column 7). These data indicate that the A. thaliana rRNA genes in A. suecica are hypermethylated and are exclusively associated with H3 dimethyl K9. By contrast, the dominant A. arenosa rRNA genes within mock-treated A. suecica were readily amplified using chromatin immunoprecipitated with antibodies recognizing either H3 trimethyl K4 or H3 dimethyl K9, also consistent with all previous results. Those promoters associated with H3 trimethyl K4 were resistant to McrBC, indicating that they are hypomethylated (column 5), but those associated with H3 dimethyl K9 were heavily methylated such that McrBC digestion precluded subsequent PCR amplification (column 7). Treatment of A. suecica with aza-dC or TSA to derepress the silenced A. thaliana rRNA genes and upregulate the dominant A. arenosa rRNA genes (refer to CITATION ) caused A. thaliana rRNA genes to switch from exclusive H3 dimethyl K9 association and heavy promoter DNA methylation to an association with H3 trimethyl K4 and loss of promoter methylation. Likewise, aza-dC or TSA treatment caused the dominant A. arenosa rRNA genes to be found exclusively associated with H3 trimethyl K4 and to be demethylated in their promoter regions. Loss of promoter methylation upon treatment with the cytosine methylation inhibitor aza-dC is expected, but promoter demethylation by a histone deacetylase inhibitor, TSA, is more surprising, though not unprecedented CITATION . The concerted switch in both DNA and histone methylation suggests that these epigenetic marks are interdependent and integral to rRNA gene silencing. Trichostatin A-induced derepression of silenced rRNA genes in A. suecica indicates that one or more of the 16 predicted histone deacetylases in Arabidopsis is required in the silencing mechanism. A systematic attempt to knock down histone deacetylase activities in A. suecica using RNA interference (RNAi) identified HDT1 , a member of a histone deacetylase gene family first identified in maize (maize HD2 ) and unique to plants CITATION , as a gene required for nucleolar dominance CITATION . RNAi-mediated degradation of HDT1 mRNA was accomplished by expressing a transgene that encodes double-stranded HDT1 RNA CITATION . RT-PCR revealed reduced HDT1 mRNA levels in all HDT1 -RNAi plants ( CITATION , lanes 6, 8, 10, 12, and 14) relative to nontransgenic control plants (lanes 2 and 4). HDT1 -RNAi plants were vigorous and displayed no visible phenotypes. Upon examining nucleolar dominance using the S1 nuclease protection assay, A. thaliana rRNA gene transcripts were detected only in trace amounts whereas A. arenosa transcripts were abundant in nontransgenic A. suecica ( CITATION , columns 4 and 5; compare results using the different probes). Treatment of A. suecica with TSA derepressed the silenced A. thaliana -derived rRNA genes and upregulated A. arenosa genes 2- to 3-fold (lane 3), consistent with previous results. Importantly, in all HDT1 -RNAi lines, the underdominant A. thaliana rRNA genes were derepressed (columns 6–10), and the degree of derepression was consistent with the extent to which HDT1 mRNA levels were reduced. We conclude that HDT1 activity is required for rRNA gene silencing in nucleolar dominance. The involvement of HDT1 in the concerted promoter DNA methylation/histone methylation switch was tested by comparing wild-type and HDT1 -RNAi plants using ChIP dot-blot and ChIP-chop-PCR assays CITATION . In HDT1 -RNAi plants, the A. thaliana rRNA genes switch from an association with H3 dimethyl K9 to and association with H3 trimethyl K4, accompanied by a loss of promoter DNA methylation. Loss of H3K9 dimethylation in HDT1 -RNAi plants is also accompanied by H3K9 acetylation ( CITATION , column 7). These data indicate that K9 methylation and K9 acetylation are mutually exclusive and that HDT1 is required for H3K9 deacetylation, either directly or indirectly. The subcellular location of HDT1 was determined by transfecting a plasmid encoding a YFP- HDT1 fusion protein into onion epidermal cells CITATION . A control vector plasmid that expressed YFP alone resulted in fluorescence throughout transformed cells (note that ∼90% of the cell volume is vacuole), with the brightest signal corresponding to the nucleus CITATION . By contrast, YFP- HDT1 transformed cells showed two adjacent spots of fluorescence CITATION , corresponding to two nucleoli per nucleus, as shown conclusively using differential interference contrast microscopy CITATION . The nucleolar localization of HDT1 suggests that this histone deacetylase may act directly on rRNA gene chromatin.
!~MM~! For immunoprecipitation, A. thaliana (ecotype Columbia) and A. suecica (strain LC1) seeds were sown on sterile semisolid MS medium (Sigma-Aldrich), 1% sucrose (pH 5.8) supplemented with 10 μg/ml aza-dC or 4 μM TSA (no aberrant phenotypes are induced at these concentrations). Plates were incubated in a growth chamber under continuous light for 14 days, 22°C, at which time seedlings were harvested. Plants for cytogenetic examinations were grown in a greenhouse (20 hr photoperiod, 25°C ± 2°C). Bisulfite-treatment was performed according to the Jacobsen protocol ( http://www.mcdb.ucla.edu/Research/Jacobsen/BisulfiteGenomicSequencing.html ), starting with 4 μg of genomic DNA digested with SacI, DraI, EcoRI, EcoRV, and StuI (New England Biolabs), which do not cut the rRNA gene promoter region. Promoter regions were amplified using the primers 5′-ACCGGGTCCGAGGATT-3′ and 5′-ATCCCTCGATCGCTACCCA-3′. PCR conditions were: 2 min, 95°C; 35 cycles of 95°C, 30 s; 55°C, 45 s; 72°C, 45 s; 72°C, 10 min. PCR products from three independent reactions were pooled and cloned into a TOPO TA plasmid (Invitrogen). Independent clones were sequenced using an ABI3700 sequencer and Big Dye Terminator reagents (Applied Biosystems). ChIP was performed according to published methods CITATION using seedlings crosslinked in 1% formaldehyde. Nuclei were subjected to four cycles of sonication, 10 s each, using a Branson sonifier (output setting 2, 40% duty cycle). Soluble chromatin was subjected to ChIP using anti-histone H3 dimethyl K9 (Abcam or Upstate Biotechnology; both yielded the same results), anti-histone H3 trimethyl K4 (Abcam), anti-histone H3 acetyl K9 (Upstate Biotechnology), or anti-pol I antibodies. The pol I antibodies were raised in rabbits against amino acids 292–831 of A. thaliana RPA2 expressed in E. coli . Chromatin-antibody complexes collected on protein A-agarose beads (Upstate Biotechnology) were washed extensively before eluting with 1% SDS, 0.1 M NaHC0 3 . DNA-protein crosslinks were reversed at 65°C overnight. Purified DNA was precipitated with ethanol and resuspended in TE (pH 8.0). Immunoprecipitated chromatin assayed by dot blot was applied to Genescreen Plus membrane (Perkin-Elmer). Filters were hybridized to an NsiI fragment of intergenic spacer clone pCaIGS for A. arenosa rRNA genes or an EcoR I-KpnI fragment of A. thaliana intergenic spacer clone pAt4 CITATION . For ChIP-chop-PCR, 10% of the immunoprecipitated DNA was digested with 10 units of McrBC (New England Biolabs) in reaction buffer (50 mM NaCl, 10 mM Tris-HCl, 10 mM MgCl2, 1 mM dithiothreitol, 100 μg/ml bovine serum albumin, 1 mM GTP [pH 7.9]) at 37°C for 2–3 hr. Ten percent of the McrBC digestion reaction (equivalent to 1.0% of the total immunoprecipitated material) was then amplified by 28 cycles of PCR using the same promoter primers and PCR conditions used for bisulfite sequencing. All ChIP and ChIP-chop-PCR experiments were repeated at least three times, yielding highly reproducible results. RNA isolation and S1 nuclease protection were as described CITATION except that radioactive 5′ end-labeled oligonucleotides were used as S1 probes in CITATION . The A. thaliana probe was 5′-GGGTTCCCCACGGACTGCCCAGACTCCCTCAACACCCACCCCCCTATATAGCTGCC-3′; the A. arenosa probe was 5′-GGAACCGAGTAGGGAGGTACCCTCGGTCTGCCCAGACTTCACCAACACCCACCCCCTATATAGCTTTTT-3′. Following initial denaturation at 99°C, 15 min, probe-RNA hybridization occurred overnight at 50°C. Probe-RNA hybrids were subjected to S1 nuclease (Invitrogen) digestion (750 units/ml) at 50°C for 45 min. Resulting digestion products were resolved on a 10% urea-polyacrylamide sequencing gel, dried onto filter paper, and exposed to X-ray film. Immunolocalization in paraformaldehyde-fixed root tip cells was according to published methods CITATION . Primary antibodies (Abcam Ltd, UK) were diluted 1:2000 in PBS, 1% BSA. Secondary antibodies were conjugated to Cy3. DNA was counterstained with DAPI (4′,6′-diamidino-2-phenylindole hydrochloride) in CITIFLUOR antifade buffer (AF1; Agar Scientific). Epifluorescence microscopy (Zeiss Axioskop2) images were obtained using a Zeiss AxioCam digital camera. Following histone immunodetection, fluorescent in situ hybridization was performed using A. thaliana - or A. arenosa -specific intergenic spacer probes labeled with digoxygenin-dUTP (Roche) as described CITATION . A . suecica plants were transformed with the HDT1 -RNAi vector pFGC6362 ( www.chromdb.org ) by using the floral dip method, as adapted for A. suecica CITATION . RT-PCR was carried out as described CITATION using primers 5′-TCTCAACCTTGATTCTTAGCC-3′ and 5′-GCTCTAATAAGAAACCACTTCACTT-3′, which amplify a region of HDT1 not present in the transgene. PCR detection of PFK used the primers 5′-GCCACGAAAACCAAACAGAC-3′ and 5′-CCGGAATTTCGATCAATCCT-3′. PCR reaction conditions were 95°C, 2 min; 38 cycles of 95°C, 30 s; 60°C, 30 s; 72°C, 90 s; 72°C, 10 min. The HDT1 (GenBank AF195545 ) coding region, amplified by PCR using Pfu polymerase (Invitrogen) and primers 5′-GCCGAGCTCTCATGGAGTTCTGGGGAATTG-3′ and 5′-GCCGGTACCTCACTTGGCAGCAGCG-3′, was cloned as a SacI-KpnI fragment to engineer a YFP- HDT1 fusion expressed from the CaMV35S promoter. Ten micrograms of plasmid (in 10 μl water) was precipitated onto 3 mg tungsten particles (in 50 μl 50% glycerol) by addition of 50 μl of 2.5 M CaCl 2 and 20 μl of 100 mM spermidine. Coated particles were collected by centrifugation, washed with 300 μl each 70% ethanol and 100% ethanol, and resuspended in 50 μl of 100% ethanol. Ten microliters (0.6 mg particles) was dried onto a macrocarrier disk (Bio-Rad) and bombarded into an ∼5 cm 3 cube of onion bulb using a Bio-Rad Biolistic Particle Delivery System (model PDS-1000). Bombarded tissue was incubated in the dark for 24 hr and imaged using a Zeiss M 2 Bio microscope equipped with a Zeiss Axiocam digital camera and a Nikon Eclipse E600 fluorescence microscope with a Q Imaging Retiga EX digital camera.
