!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana AtHMA3 protein belongs to the P 1B -adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) transporter family, involved in heavy metal transport. Functional expression of AtHMA3 phenotypically complements the Cd/Pb-hypersensitive yeast strain Δ ycf1 , but not the Zn-hypersensitive mutant Δ zrc1 . AtHMA3-complemented Δ ycf1 cells accumulate the same amount of cadmium as YCF1-complemented Δ ycf1 cells or wild-type cells, suggesting that AtHMA3 carries out an intracellular sequestration of Cd. A mutant of AtHMA3 altered in the P-ATPase phosphorylation domain did not complement Δ ycf1 , suggesting that metal transport rather than chelation is involved. The fusion protein AtHMA3::green fluorescent protein (GFP) is localized at the vacuole, consistent with a role in the influx of cadmium into the vacuolar compartment. In A. thaliana , the mRNA of AtHMA3 was detected mainly in roots, old rosette leaves and cauline leaves. The expression levels were not affected by cadmium or zinc treatments.
!~RES~! The nucleic sequence of AtHMA3 cDNA (ecotype Ws) was determined (GenBank AY055217 ) and compared to the published genomic sequence (ecotype Col, At4g30120). The intron/exon distribution in AtHMA3 shows the same organization as those of AtHMA4 and AtHMA2 from Arabidopsis , as described previously CITATION . Nevertheless, the two first introns are remarkably short in AtHMA3 (around 200 bp), contrasting with the two large first introns of around 1–1.5 kb in AtHMA4 and AtHMA2 . Conceptual translation of the cDNA predicted a polypeptide of 760 amino acids with significant amino acid similarity with many P-ATPases involved in the Cd/Zn transport, including CadA from Listeria monocytogenes . The few divergences between Col and Ws AtHMA3 sequences were controlled by various independent PCRs on genomic DNA and cDNA, with subsequent sequencing of the products. These ecotypic divergences (I vs. R in position 448; I vs. M in 699 and S vs. A in 714) are not located in the classical ATPase functional domains ( CITATION ). The N-terminal part of AtHMA3 exhibits only one degenerated HMA signature of 29–31 residues as defined by PROSITE (PS01047), with a replacement of the canonical motif GMxCxxC by GICCxxx. This modification is an unusual feature shared with AtHMA2, AtHMA3 and AtHMA4. The amino acid sequence is also very similar to AtHMA4, another P-ATPase from A. thaliana , along the whole AtHMA3 length. Nevertheless, AtHMA3 does not present the long AtHMA4 C-terminal extension with numerous cysteine pairs and an 11 histidine stretch ( CITATION ), a very unusual feature among the P-ATPase family. In our experimental conditions, the wild-type yeast strain was able to grow up to 80–90 μM of CdCl 2 . Beyond this range, the growth rate was drastically reduced and stopped for Cd concentrations above 150 μM. A Cd-sensitive mutant strain, deleted for the ycf1 gene as reported by CITATION , was also used to minimize redundant Cd detoxification processes. In the present study, the Δ ycf1 strain exhibits a severe growth reduction for CdCl 2 concentrations above 70 μM. As shown in CITATION , heterologous expression of AtHMA3 in the wild-type strain did not enhance yeast resistance to Cd. The expression of AtHMA3 fully complements the Δ ycf1 strain up to 70 μM of CdCl 2 . For latter concentrations (90–150 μM), the complementation was only partial, compared to Δ ycf1 -YCF1. CITATION also shows that AtHMA3::GFP transformed in Δ ycf1 induced a less efficient complementation than AtHMA3. It was recently demonstrated that the Δ ycf1 strain is sensitive to lead CITATION . We used this strain to test a possible Pb tolerance enhancement by AtHMA3. As shown in CITATION , AtHMA3 complemented the Pb hypersensitivity of Δ ycf1 for concentrations around 50 mM. However, AtHMA3 expression did not enhance wild-type yeast resistance to Pb. It is noticeable that the fusion AtHMA3::GFP did not complement Δ ycf1 concerning the tolerance to lead. Finally, similar experiments were conducted to test the ability of AtHMA3 to enhance Zn tolerance in the yeast wild-type and in the zinc-sensitive mutant Δ zrc1 . We found that yeast tolerance to Zn was not affected by the expression of AtHMA3, even in the Zn-sensitive mutant (data not shown). All strains that we used exhibited very similar generation times when grown without metal. In the presence of 40 μM cadmium, the generation times were increased depending on the plasmid and were consistent with solid medium experiments, i.e. AtHMA3 complements Δ ycf1 and the fusion protein AtHMA3::GFP partially complements Δ ycf1 ( CITATION ). The exponential growth phase was very short for the Δ ycf1 strain when exposed to Cd. As a consequence, differences between strains are more pronounced when considering the OD 600 at 48 h data, i.e. at the stationary phase ( CITATION ). To test whether Δ ycf1 phenotypic complementation is due to transport or solely to a chelation phenomenon, we used a D397A mutant of AtHMA3 that we generated. Asp-397 is predicted to be the invariant residue that is the AtHMA3 phosphorylation site (boxed in the CITATION ). The transport function of this mutant is therefore expected to be affected. Indeed, this mutant did not complement the Δ ycf1 strain phenotype, suggesting that metal detoxification is grounded on AtHMA3 transport function. Semiquantitative RT-PCRs were conducted (using yeast actin mRNA as control) to verify that the mRNA transcript levels were identical in strains expressing AtHMA3 or the D397A mutant (data not shown). Following yeast culture in cadmium-containing medium (40 μM), Cd contents were determined in yeast pellets by ICP measurements ( CITATION ). AtHMA3 expression in wild-type did not change Cd sensitivity compared with the control (WT-pYES2) and it was not surprising to find that Cd accumulation was very similar in both strains. Nevertheless, when Δ ycf1 was complemented by YCF1 or AtHMA3, Cd accumulations were also very similar to those obtained in the wild-type. These results suggest that AtHMA3 does not induce Cd release into the medium, but rather participates in the intracellular sequestering of the metal. YCF1 is indeed a transporter located in the vacuolar membrane, expulsing glutathione S-conjugated xenobiotics, including cadmium, to the vacuolar compartment. FM4-64 was used as a control to visualize vacuolar membranes in yeast ( CITATION ). The GFP fluorescence was found to be very low, and was not found in all cells. Nevertheless, when present, it was always found inside vacuoles and colocalized with FM4-64 fluorescence, suggesting a vacuolar localization. Due to the high homology of AtHMA2 , AtHMA3 and AtHMA4 cDNA sequences, primers were carefully designed in specific regions. Absence of cross-amplification was verified by PCR using plasmids containing AtHMA2 , AtHMA3 and AtHMA4 as a matrix (data not shown). The AtHMA3 expression level was not modulated when plants were treated with Zn (100–500 μM) or Cd (30 μM) in hydroponic conditions, for a few hours to one week (data not shown). AtHMA3 mRNA was detected in all plant parts but at weak levels, since at least 30 cycles of PCR were needed ( CITATION ). In the same conditions AtHMA4 was detected as soon as the 24th cycle. Highest levels of AtHMA3 mRNA were found in old rosette leaves, in roots and in cauline leaves.
!~MM~! The BY4741 wild-type Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain (EUROSCARF acc. no. Y00000), the cadmium-sensitive Δ ycf1 (Y04069) strain and the zinc-sensitive strain Δ zrc1 (Y00829) were used for AtHMA3 heterologous expression and phenotype characterization. Synthetic yeast medium without uracil (S-URA) (yeast nitrogen base (Sigma) 6.7 g l −1 , drop out (Sigma) 1.92 g l −1 ) was used with additional 2% (w/v) raffinose for yeast precultures, and with 2% (w/v) galactose and 1% (w/v) raffinose for induction during metal tolerance experiments on solid medium. Alternatively, liquid medium inductions were conducted using 2% (w/v) galactose as unique source of carbon. Total RNA was extracted from leaves of A. thaliana (Wassilewskija (Ws) ecotype) according to CITATION . AtHMA3 full-length cDNA was amplified through reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using the Omniscript reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen ™ ) and the expand high fidelity Taq polymerase (Roche Diagnostics). RT was performed using 4 μg of total RNA and an oligo(dT) 20 primer. cDNA was amplified using the following oligonucleotides: 5′-HMA3 (5′-CAAGCTCAACGATGGCGGAAGGTG-3′) and 3′-HMA3 (5′-CAGAAGAAGGTTTTCACTTTTG-3′), designed on the Columbia (Col) genomic sequence At4g30120 in order to amplify the AtHMA3 open reading frame (ORF). The complete cDNA sequence was subcloned in the pCR ® -XL-TOPO vector (Invitrogen ™ ) and was sequenced using a Perkin Elmer ABI Prism 310 sequencer. AtHMA3 was then cloned into the Not I site of the yeast expression vector pYES2 (Invitrogen ™ ) downstream the pGAL promoter, resulting in plasmid pRP310. A pYES2-green fluorescent protein (GFP) plasmid was constructed by introducing the Eco RI/ Not I fragment from the pEGFP-N2 vector (Clontech) into the Eco RI/ Not I sites of pYES2. AtHMA3 was then cloned in frame with the EGFP gene into the Spe I and Pst I sites of the pYES2-GFP vector, resulting in plasmid pLA312, allowing the yeast expression of a AtHMA3::GFP fusion protein. The pAG314 plasmid was generated with the Quickchange site-directed mutagenesis kit from Stratagene, using the plasmid pRP310 as template and the H3D397A forward and H3D397A reverse couple of primers ( CITATION ). The pAG314 plasmid codes for a D397A mutant of AtHMA3 which is unable to form the aspartyl-phosphate intermediate involved in the P-type ATPase catalytic cycle CITATION . Another construction was performed in pYES2 containing a YCF1::GFP construction into the Sac I/ Not I sites, allowing the complementation of the Δ ycf1 strain. Yeast strains were transformed using the LiAc technique CITATION , using uracil complementation for selection. Yeast vacuolar membranes were stained with FM4-64 according to CITATION . Yeast cells were observed through confocal microscopy (Fluoview Olympus, France) using a krypton/argon laser. Excitation for GFP and FM4-64 was performed at 488 nm, and recordings were performed at 510–550 nm for GFP and at 585–610 nm for FM4-64. Yeast inductions were performed at 30°C during 8 h with galactose-containing medium. Cultures were subsequently diluted to optical density (OD) 600 =0.1, and 2 μl were spotted on solid induction medium supplemented with ZnSO 4 , Pb(NO 3 ) 2 or CdCl 2 . Incubations were performed up to 5 days at 30°C. Alternatively, induced cultures were diluted to OD 600 =0.2 and grown in liquid medium at 30°C aerobically, and OD 600 was followed at various times over 48 h. Generation times were calculated over the early exponential growth phase. Pb experiments were not conducted in liquid medium, as this metal is hardly soluble in the yeast culture medium. Cells were first grown for 24 h in the induction medium described above, then for 48 h in 20 ml of 40 μM cadmium-containing induction medium. After centrifugation, supernatants were collected, cells were washed three times with ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA) 10 mM, pelleted, dried for 48 h at 50°C and mineralized. The cadmium content was determined both in the medium and cells, using ICP (ICP OES Vista MPX, Varian). A. thaliana (ecotype Col-0) plants were hydroponically grown from 1 h to 7 days with various concentrations of CdCl 2 (0–50 μM) and ZnSO 4 (3–500 μM). The nutritive solution was as follows: Ca(NO 3 ) 2 0.8 mM; KNO 3 2 mM; K 2 HPO 4 60 μM; KH 2 PO 4 695 μM; MgSO 4 1.1 mM; FeSO 4 20 μM; Na 2 EDTA 20 μM; (NH 4 ) 6 Mo 7 O 24 74 nM; MnSO 4 3.6 μM; ZnSO 4 3 μM; H 3 BO 3 9.25 μM; CuSO 4 785 nM. For tissular mRNA distribution, plants were grown on sand up to 2 months with a 8 h photoperiod, and tissues were collected and stored in liquid nitrogen before RNA extraction. Total RNA were extracted from various plant tissues with Trizol (Life Technologies). RT was performed using 4 μg total RNA using the reverse first strand cDNA synthesis kit (Amersham). PCRs were performed using ExTaq polymerase (TaKaRa) and cycles of 94°C for 30 s/55°C for 30 s/72°C for 30 s and the primers reported in CITATION . Actin was used as a control as described in CITATION . PCR samples were taken at successive cycles and analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis for quantification, checking that amplification did not reach saturation. Two independent experiments were conducted and gave similar results.
