!~ABS~! Multicellular eukaryotes produce small RNA molecules (approximately 21–24 nucleotides) of two general types, microRNA (miRNA) and short interfering RNA (siRNA). They collectively function as sequence-specific guides to silence or regulate genes, transposons, and viruses and to modify chromatin and genome structure. Formation or activity of small RNAs requires factors belonging to gene families that encode DICER (or DICER-LIKE [DCL]) and ARGONAUTE proteins and, in the case of some siRNAs, RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDR) proteins. Unlike many animals, plants encode multiple DCL and RDR proteins. Using a series of insertion mutants of Arabidopsis thaliana, unique functions for three DCL proteins in miRNA (DCL1), endogenous siRNA (DCL3), and viral siRNA (DCL2) biogenesis were identified. One RDR protein (RDR2) was required for all endogenous siRNAs analyzed. The loss of endogenous siRNA in dcl3 and rdr2 mutants was associated with loss of heterochromatic marks and increased transcript accumulation at some loci. Defects in siRNA-generation activity in response to turnip crinkle virus in dcl2 mutant plants correlated with increased virus susceptibility. We conclude that proliferation and diversification of DCL and RDR genes during evolution of plants contributed to specialization of small RNA-directed pathways for development, chromatin structure, and defense.
!~RES~! At least two factors, DCL1 and HEN1 (HUA ENHANCER1), are involved in Arabidopsis miRNA formation. As shown for miR-171, miR-159 (CITATIONA), and several other miRNAs (CITATION; CITATION), mutants with dcl1 loss-of-function alleles lose most of their miRNA populations (CITATIONB). Plants with mutant hen1 alleles either lose miRNAs or the apparent size of miRNAs is increased by one or more nucleotides (CITATION; CITATION) (CITATIONB). miRNA function to suppress target mRNAs is diminished in both dcl1 and hen1 mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine whether other DCL or RDR proteins are required for miRNA formation in Arabidopsis, miR-171 and miR-159 were analyzed in four new mutants. The dcl2-1 and dcl3-1 mutants contained T-DNA insertions in DCL2 (At3g03300) and DCL3 (At3g43920) genes, respectively (CITATION). In wild-type plants, DCL2 and DCL3 transcripts accumulated to detectable levels in inflorescence tissues, but not in leaves. The mutant dcl2-1 and dcl3-1 transcripts were not detected in either tissue type (CITATION). The rdr1-1 and rdr2-1 mutants contained T-DNA insertions in RDR1 (At1g14790) and RDR2 (At4g11130), respectively (CITATION). RDR1 and RDR2 transcripts accumulated in inflorescence tissue, but not leaves, of untreated wild-type plants (CITATION). The RDR1 transcript levels were elevated in salicylic acid (SA)-treated leaves, as shown previously (CITATION), but RDR2 transcript levels were not affected by SA (CITATION). Both rdr1-1 and rdr2-1 transcripts were below the detection limit in the corresponding mutant plants. In addition, a mutant containing an insertion in the RDR6 gene (also known as SDE1/SGS2; At3g49500) was analyzed in parallel with the rdr1 and rdr2 mutants. This rdr6-1 mutant displayed a weak virus-susceptibility phenotype that was consistent with previously reported sde1 and sgs2 mutants (CITATION; CITATION). However, no differences in RDR6 transcript levels were detected between wild-type and rdr6-1 mutant plants (data not shown). (A) miRNA genes and selected loci corresponding to three siRNAs or siRNA populations. Cloned small RNA sequenc-es are shown as green (sense orientation relative to the genome) or red (antisense orientation) bars. Protein-coding and miRNA genes are indicated by blue arrowheads. From top to bottom: miR-171 and miR-159a loci; siRNA02 loci, with each siRNA02 sequence indicated by an asterisk and the inverted duplication shown by the gray arrows; cluster2 siRNA locus; a segment of chromosome III showing 10 5S rDNA repeats (blue indicates 5S rRNA, gray indicates spacer) containing the siRNA1003 sequence. (B) Small RNA blot assays for miR-171, miR-159, and endogenous siRNAs. Ethid-ium bromide-stained gels (prior to transfer) in the zone corresponding to tRNA and 5S RNA are shown at the bottom. Each mutant is presented in a panel with the corresponding wild-type control (Col-0 or La-er). Accumulation of miR-171 and miR-159 was unaffected in the dcl2 and dcl3 mutants (see CITATIONB). This was in contrast to the low level or shifted mobility of miR-171 and miR-159 in dcl1-7 and hen1-1, respectively (see CITATIONB). Similarly, accumulation of miR-171 and miR-159 was unaffected in rdr1 and rdr2 mutants. A library of cloned small RNAs from inflorescence tissues of Col-0 ecotype plants was partially sequenced and analyzed. Initial characterization of 125 of these sequences revealed that most of the clones corresponded to siRNA-like sequences (CITATIONa). A total of 1,368 distinct small RNAs, ranging in size between 20 and 26 nucleotides, were provisionally categorized here as siRNAs, with 24 nucleotides representing the most common size (CITATIONA; all sequences are available to view or download at http://cgrb.orst.edu/smallRNA/db/). The siRNA sequences were identified at 5,299 genomic loci (CITATION). Approximately 27% of endogenous siRNAs derived from transposon or retroelement sequences in the sense or antisense polarity (CITATIONB). Centromeric and pericentromeric siRNAs were common, which was partly due to the prevalence of transposons and retroelements at these sites. Forty-five small RNAs of sense and antisense polarity arose from highly repeated 5S, 18S, and 25S rDNA. While it is likely that some rDNA-derived sequences resulted from nonspecific breakdown of highly abundant rRNAs, some had specific genetic requirements and properties that were consistent with functional siRNAs (see below). Thirty-one siRNAs came from sequences annotated as psuedogenes and 147 from hypothetical or predicted genes (CITATIONB). Only 28 were identified as originating from genes that are known to be expressed (CITATIONB). The remaining 816 sequences mapped to loci that were collectively labeled as an IGR sequence. The IGR-derived siRNAs arose from unique sequences adjacent to known genes, inverted duplications, satellites, and other repeated sequences, although many of these may actually correspond to transposon or retroelement sequences that were not recognized by the search programs. (A) Size distribution of endogenous siRNAs. (B) Distribution of distinct siRNAs in different sequence categories. (C) Density of siRNAs from highly repeated (mainly transposons and retroelements; the asterisk shows repeat sequences identified using RepeatMasker), 5S rDNA, and unique genomic sequence. The frequency of unique siRNAs arising from highly repeated sequences (mainly transposons and retroelements), 5S rDNA repeats, and nonrepetitive sequence was calculated (CITATIONC). siRNAs in the library occurred at a frequency of 2.42 per 100 kb repetitive DNA, which was approximately 2.4-fold higher that the frequency of siRNAs from nonrepetitive sequence (1.02 per 100 kb). Based on the number of repeats in the most current version of the Arabidopsis genome sequence, unique siRNAs corresponding to 5S rDNA were identified at a frequency of 7.55 per 100 kb. These data indicate that siRNAs arise more frequently from highly repeat genome sequences. A set of four siRNAs or siRNA populations, representing the major categories identified in the library, were selected for genetic analysis. Twenty-six siRNAs corresponded to SINE retroelements, one of which (AtSN1) was selected for detailed analysis. AtSN1-derived siRNA formation requires AGO4 (CITATION) and SDE4 (CITATION). One siRNA (siRNA1003) originating from 5S rDNA was selected. The 5S rRNA genes occur in tandem arrays in chromosomes III, IV, and V, with the typical repeat unit (approximately 500 nucleotides) being composed of transcribed sequence (120 nucleotides) and flanking spacer sequences (CITATION; CITATION). The siRNA1003 sequence was identified in the sense orientation within the spacer sequence in 202 repeats in chromosome III and four repeats in chromosome V (see CITATIONA). The cluster2 siRNA population from a 125-nucleotide IGR segment in chromosome I was represented by seven unique siRNAs in the library (see CITATIONA). Finally, the siRNA02 sequence corresponded to two loci separated by approximately 2.1 kb in chromosome V. One locus occurred in an IGR sequence, and the other within a hypothetical gene (At5g56070) of unknown function. The two siRNA02 loci occur in sequences that correspond to arms of an inverted duplication (see CITATIONA) (CITATIONa). The AtSN1, cluster2, and siRNA02 probes detected populations that accumulated as 24-nucleotide RNAs, while the siRNA1003 probe detected a population containing 21- to 24-nucleotide species (see CITATIONB). The abundance of each siRNA population was decreased in the dcl3-1 mutant, but not in the dcl1-7 or dcl2-1 mutants (see CITATIONB). This was in strict contrast to miR-171, miR-159 (see CITATIONB), and several other miRNAs tested (data not shown), which depended specifically on DCL1. Interestingly, weak signals corresponding to siRNA02, AtSN1 siRNAs, and cluster2 siRNAs were detected in faster-migrating positions in the dcl3-1 mutant (see CITATIONB). This may have resulted from exposure of siRNA precursors to alternate DCL activities in the absence of DCL3. Notably, both small and large siRNAs detected by the 5S rDNA-derived siRNA1003 probe were diminished in dcl3-1 plants. Each siRNA population was eliminated in the rdr2-1 mutant, but not in the rdr1-1 mutant (see CITATIONB). In preliminary experiments, each siRNA population was unaffected by the rdr6-1 mutation, although these data should be interpreted cautiously because of the possibility that the rdr6-1 allele is weak (data not shown). The endogenous siRNA requirement for RDR2 contrasted with the miRNAs, which exhibited complete insensitivity to each of the rdr mutations tested (see CITATIONB). These data genetically identify DCL3 and RDR2 as components of an endogenous siRNA generating system that differs functionally from the miRNA-generating apparatus. The HEN1 protein was implicated in post-transcriptional silencing of sense-, but not hairpin-forming, transgenes (CITATION). We tested the requirement of HEN1 for endogenous siRNA formation using the hen1-1 mutant. Two of the siRNA populations, siRNA1003 and the AtSN1-siRNAs, were reduced to undetectable levels in hen1-1 plants (see CITATIONB). The siRNA02 and cluster2 siRNAs, on the other hand, reproducibly accumulated to higher levels in hen1-1 plants compared to wild-type La-er plants. Thus, each type of endogenous siRNA tested requires DCL3 and RDR2, but only the highly repeated 5S rDNA and retroelement-derived siRNAs require HEN1. In fact, the requirement for, or independence from, HEN1 was precisely the same as AGO4 at each of these loci (D. Zilberman and S. Jacobsen, unpublished data). Two previous studies showed that SDE4 and AGO4 are required for AtSN1 siRNA accumulation and methylation of cytosine positions at the AtSN1 locus (CITATION; CITATION). In an ago4 mutant, loss of AtSN1 siRNA is associated with decreased histone H3K9 methylation (CITATION). Cytosine methylation and increased histone H3K9 methylation are hallmarks of transcriptionally silent and heterochromatic DNA in plants and other organisms, and siRNAs may recruit chromatin modification complexes to specific loci (CITATION). To determine whether DCL3 and RDR2 catalyze formation of siRNAs that functionally interact with chromatin, cytosine methylation at AtSN1 and 5S rDNA loci and methylation of H3K9 and H3K4 positions in AtSN1 were examined in wild-type, dcl3-1, and rdr2-1 plants. We also analyzed AtSN1-derived transcript levels to determine whether the mutations affected expression of the locus. Consistent with previous reports (CITATION; CITATION), bisulfite sequencing of AtSN1 genomic DNA revealed extensive CpG (72.0%), CpNpG (43.1%), and asymmetric CpHpH (16.3%) methylation in Col-0 wild-type plants (CITATIONA; CITATION). In the rdr2-1 mutant, CpNpG and CpHpH methylation was reduced to 24.6% and 4.5%, respectively. Only a slight reduction in CpG methylation was detected in rdr2-1 plants (CITATIONA). This methylation pattern was similar to that detected in mutants lacking CHROMOMETHYLASE3 (cmt3-7; CITATIONA), which is necessary for efficient methylation of AtSN1 at non-CpG sites, and in a mutant lacking AGO4 (CITATION). In the dcl3-1 mutant, however, cytosine methylation was decreased only at asymmetric sites, while CpG and CpNpG methylation was similar to that of wild-type plants (CITATIONA). (A) Analysis of CpG (left), CpNpG (center), and CpHpH (right) methylation in AtSN1 by bisulfite sequencing of genomic DNA. (B) Blot analysis of 5S rDNA digested with methylation-sensitive restriction enzymes HpaII (left) and MspI (right). HpaII is sensitive to CpG and CpNpG methylation, whereas MspI is sensitive to only CpNpG methylation. Methylation is indicated by the ascending ladder, which corresponds to 5S rDNA multimers (monomer = approximately 0.5 kb). Duplicate samples from each plant were analyzed. (C) ChIP assays using antibodies against dimethyl-histone H3K9 and dimethyl-histone H3K4. Genomic DNA associated with immunoprecipitated chromatin was analyzed by semiquantitative PCR with primer pairs specific for AtSN1, retrotransposon reverse transcriptase (At4g03800) (internal control for H3K9 methylation), and PFK (At4g04040) (internal control for H3K4 methylation). The PCR products were quantitated and compared against the respective internal controls, and the relative H3K4 and H3K9 methylation levels were expressed relative to that in Col-0 (arbitrarily set to 1.00). (D) Detection of AtSN1-specific transcripts by semiquantitative RT-PCR. Primers specific for PFK transcripts were used as the internal control. A parallel set of reactions without addition of reverse transcriptase (RT) was run as a quality control for genomic DNA contamination. The PCR products were normalized relative to PFK, and the expression levels were calculated relative to that in Col-0 (arbitrarily set to 1.00). Because of the number of 5S rDNA repeats, analysis of cytosine methylation was done using restriction enzymes HpaII or MspI and DNA blot assays. Sensitivity to HpaII indicates lack of methylation at CpG or CpNpG sites (or both), whereas sensitivity to MspI indicates lack of methylation at only CpNpG sites. In wild-type Col-0 and La-er plants, 5S rDNA loci were heavily methylated at CpG+CpNpG sites, as shown by detection of only high molecular weight forms using HpaII, and partially methylated at CpNpG as shown using MspI (CITATIONB). In rdr2-1 plants, methylation was partially lost at CpNpG sites (increased MspI sensitivity; CITATIONB, lanes 15–16), although to a lesser degree than in cmt3-7 plants (CITATIONB, lanes 21–22). Methylation detected by HpaII sensitivity was partially lost in the rdr2-1 mutant (CITATIONB, lanes 3–4), which was most likely due to loss of CpG methylation. Loss of only CpNpG methylation in rdr2-1 plants would not account for the increased sensitivity to HpaII, as HpaII sensitivity in cmt3-7 plants (lacking nearly all CpNpG methylation) was unaffected (CITATIONB, lanes 9–10). Sensitivity of 5S rDNA sites to HpaII and MspI in dcl3-1 plants was only slightly increased (CITATIONB, lanes 5–6 and 17–18). In the ago4-1 mutant, CpG methylation was partially lost as revealed by increased sensitivity to HpaII (CITATIONB, lanes 11–12). Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays were used to detect changes in H3K4 and H3K9 methylation at AtSN1 in rdr2-1 and dcl3-1 mutant lines. Loci containing genes encoding a retrotransposon reverse transcriptase and phosphofructokinase β subunit (PFK) were used as positive controls for sequences associated primarily with K9- and K4-methylated histone H3, respectively (CITATION). At AtSN1, decreased levels of histone H3K9 methylation were detected in both rdr2-1 and dcl3-1 mutants (see CITATIONC). This was accompanied by a slight increase in H3K4 methylation (see CITATIONC). The extent to which H3 methylation changed was greater in rdr2-1 relative to dcl3-1 plants. Little or no change in H3K4 and H3K9 methylation was detected at the control loci. In addition, no changes in H3K4 or H3K9 methylation were detected at AtSN1 in cmt3-7 plants (data not shown). The changes in H3 methylation shown here are similar to those at several heterochromatic or silenced loci in ago4 mutant plants (CITATION). The level of AtSN1-derived transcripts was measured in rdr2-1 and dcl3-1 mutant plants and compared against the level of PFK transcript using semiquantitative RT-PCR. As shown in CITATIOND, relatively low levels of AtSN1 transcripts were detected in wild-type Col-0 plants. However, the normalized level of AtSN1 transcripts was over 8- and 3-fold higher in rdr2-1 and dcl3-1 mutant plants, respectively, compared to wild-type plants. Therefore, loss of siRNA-forming capability correlated with loss of heterochromatic marks and elevated transcript levels at an endogenous locus that is normally silenced at the chromatin level. Given that RDR2, DCL3, and AGO4 are involved in chromatin-associated events and that HEN1 is required for accumulation of certain endogenous siRNAs associated with chromatin modification, it was hypothesized that each of these proteins accumulates in the nucleus. The presence of nuclear transport signals in each protein was tested by transient expression and analysis of green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions in a heterologous plant, Nicotiana benthamiana, using an Agrobacterium infiltration assay. Subcellular accumulation sites for these proteins were compared to those of β-glucurodinase (GUS)–GFP (cytosolic control) and nuclear inclusion a protein (NIa)–GFP (nuclear control). The DCL3–GFP, HEN1–GFP, and GFP–AGO4 fusion proteins were detected exclusively in the nucleus (CITATION; CITATION), indicating that DCL3, HEN1, and AGO4 possess independent nuclear transport capability. Subcellular localization experiments with RDR2–GFP and GFP–RDR2 fusion proteins, however, were inconclusive due to low expression levels and protein instability (data not shown). Pairwise presentation of confocal microscopic images showing GFP fluorescence (top) and DAPI fluorescence (bottom) in N. benthamiana expressing the indicated GFP fusion proteins. Arrowheads indicate the location of nuclei. Note that the GUS–GFP control protein accumulates in cytoplasm at the cell periphery and immediately surrounding nuclei, while the NIa–GFP control protein accumulates in nuclei. Scale bar = 25μm. The involvement of DCL1, DCL2, and DCL3 in siRNA formation in response to infection by three dissimilar RNA viruses was tested using the dcl mutant series. Two of the viruses, a GFP-tagged version of turnip mosaic virus (TuMV–GFP) and turnip crinkle virus (TCV), infect Arabidopsis systemically and cause moderate to severe disease symptoms. The third virus, cucumber mosaic virus strain Y (CMV-Y), infects plants systemically, but causes only mild symptoms. Wild-type (Col-0 and La-er) and mutant plants were inoculated on rosette leaves, and upper, noninoculated tissue (cauline leaves and inflorescences) was analyzed for virus-specific siRNAs at 7 and 14 d post-inoculation (dpi). Viral siRNAs were detected in systemic tissues from wild-type plants at both timepoints (CITATIONA–CITATIONC, lanes 3, 5, 10, and 13), with siRNA levels generally higher at 14 dpi. In TuMV- and CMV-infected dcl1-7, dcl2-1, and dcl3-1 mutant plants, siRNAs accumulated to levels that were similar to those in infected wild-type plants at 7 and 14 dpi (Figures CITATIONA and CITATIONB). TuMV and CMV titers and symptom phenotypes in the three mutants were indistinguishable from those in their respective parents (data not shown). Similarly, in TCV-infected dcl1-7 and dcl3-1 plants, viral siRNA levels, virus titer, and symptom severity were essentially the same as in wild-type plants (CITATIONC; CITATIONA and CITATIONB; data not shown). Blot analysis of viral siRNA. Systemic tissue samples were analyzed at the indicated time points from parental and mutant lines that were infected with TuMV–GFP (A), CMV-Y (B), and TCV (C). RNA blots were analyzed using virus-specific probes to detect siRNAs. Ethidium bromide-stained gels in the zone corresponding to tRNA and 5S RNA are shown. Relative accumulation (RA) of siRNAs is indicated at the bottom of each panel, with the level measured in infected control plants (Col-0 or La-er, depending on the mutant) at 7 dpi arbitrarily set to 1.0. (A) Noninfected control (left) and TCV-infected (right) Col-0, dcl2-1, and dcl3-1 plants at 14 dpi. (B) TCV accumulation, as measured by ELISA, in the systemic tissues of infected wild-type and mutant plants at 7 dpi (open bars) and 14 dpi (filled bars). (C) Plant height (left), number of flowers/plant (center), and fresh weight of bolt tissue (right) were measured at 14 dpi in noninfected (open bars) and infected (filled bars) plants (n = 9). In contrast, TCV-derived siRNAs accumulated to levels that were 5-fold lower in dcl2-1 plants compared to wild-type plants at 7 dpi (see CITATIONC, lanes 10–11). This was a transient deficit, as TCV siRNA levels rebounded to near wild-type levels by 14 dpi (see CITATIONC, lanes 13–14). The slow accumulation of siRNAs was not due to lack of TCV replication or movement in the tissues analyzed, as TCV titer in the dcl2-1 mutant was similar to (7 dpi) or significantly higher than (p < 0.05, 14 dpi) the titers in wild-type plants (CITATIONB). Additionally, TCV-induced disease was more severe in dcl2-1 plants, as plant height, fresh weight of bolts, and number of flowers in infected dcl2-1 plants were each significantly (p < 0.01 for plant height and flower number; p < 0.05 for weight of bolts) lower compared to infected wild-type plants (CITATIONA and CITATIONC). Therefore, DCL2 functions as a component of the antiviral silencing response in TCV-infected plants. The DCL2–GFP fusion protein accumulated predominantly in the nucleus of N. benthamiana cells in the transient assay system, although some cytosolic localization was also detected (see CITATION). Thus, DCL1 (CITATION), DCL2, and DCL3 each have nuclear transport activity.
!~MM~! All plants were grown under standard greenhouse conditions. The dcl1-7, hen1-1, cmt3-7, and ago4-1 mutant lines were described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Other mutant lines were obtained from the Salk Institute Genome Analysis Laboratory (SIGnAL, La Jolla, California, United States) and Torrey Mesa Research Institute (now a subsidiary of Syngenta, Basel, Switzerland). dcl2-1 has a T-DNA insertion within predicted intron 9 (after nucleotide 2,842 from ATG of the genomic DNA) of DCL2 (At3g03300). dcl3-1 has a T-DNA insertion within predicted exon 7 of DCL3 (At3g43920) at a point 2,136 nucleotides beyond the ATG in genomic DNA. This introduces four codons after the serine 288 codon, followed by a premature stop codon. rdr1-1 has a T-DNA insertion within predicted exon 1 after nucleotide 2,366 beyond the ATG of RDR1 (At1g14790). rdr2-1 has a T-DNA insertion within predicted exon 1 (in front of nucleotide 316 from the ATG) of RDR2 (At4g11130). rdr6-1 has a T-DNA insertion within predicted exon 2 (in front of nucleotide 3,977 from ATG of the genomic DNA) of RDR6 (also known as SDE1/SGS2; At3g49500). Each insertion line was backcrossed twice to Col-0 and brought to homozygosity. Additional information about the insertion lines are provided in the supplemental online materials. For analysis of each insertion mutant, Col-0 was the wild-type control plant. For dcl1-7, hen1-1, ago4-1, and cmt3-7 mutants, La-er was the wild-type control. Extraction of low- and high-molecular weight RNAs and blot assays were done as described previously (CITATIONa). Low-molecular weight RNA (20 μg) from Arabidopsis inflo-rescence tissue was used for miRNA and endogenous siRNA analysis. Probes for miR-171 and AtSN1-siRNA analysis were described previously (CITATIONb; CITATION). miR-159 was detected using an end-labeled DNA oligonucleotide AS-159 (5′-TAGAGCTCCCTTCAATCCAAA-3′). siRNA02 and siRNA1003 were detected using the end-labeled DNA oligonucleotides AS-02 (5′-GTTGACCAGTCCGCCAGCCGAT-3′) and AS-1003 (5′-ATGCCAAGTTTGGCCTCACGGTCT-3′), respectively. The probe for cluster2 siRNAs was a random primer-labeled fragment spanning a 235-nucleotide IGR of chromosome I (nucleotides 4,506,544–4,506,778) (see CITATIONA) and was amplified from genomic DNA using primers AS-285 (5′-TTGCTGATTTGTATTTTATGCAT-3′) and S-786 (5′-CTTTTTCAAACCATAAACCAGAAA-3′). Cytosine methylation was analyzed by bisulfite sequencing of genomic DNA or by DNA blot assay following digestion with methylation-sensitive restriction endonucleases, as described elsewhere (CITATION; CITATION). The region of AtSN1 analyzed (chromosome III, nucleotides 15,805,617–15,805,773) was treated with sodium bisulfite and amplified using primers AtSN1-BS1 (5′-GTTGTATAAGTTTAGTTTTAATTTTAYGGATYAGTATTAATTT-3′) and AtSN1-BS2 (5′-CAATATACRATCCAAAAAACARTTATTAAAATAATATCTTAA-3′). At least 18 independent clones were sequenced for each genotype. ChIP assays were done using antibodies specific for dimethyl-histone H3K4 (Upstate Biotechnology, Lake Placid, New York, United States) or dimethyl-histone H3K9 (kindly provided by T. Jenuwein, Research Institute of Molecular Pathology, Vienna, Austria) as described elsewhere (CITATION). Methylation of H3K4 and H3K9 at AtSN1 in wild-type Col-0 and rdr2-1 and dcl3-1 mutants was measured relative to that at internal control loci, At4g04040 and At4g03800. The data were then normalized against the values measured in Col-0. The 35S:DCL3–GFP construct contained the DCL3 coding region fused to GFP coding sequence, flanked by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter and terminator sequences. The expression cassette was cloned in pSLJ755I5. All other GFP fusion constructs were made by cloning the coding sequence into pGWB5 (for C-terminal GFP) or pGWB6 (for N-terminal GFP), a set of gateway-compatible binary vectors designed for 35S promoter-driven expression of GFP fusion proteins (kindly provided by T. Nakagawa, Shimane University, Izumo, Japan). Cloning using gateway vectors was done using reagents and protocols from Invitrogen (Carlsbad, California, United States). Constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV2260 and expressed in N. benthamiana leaves as described previously (CITATION). Fusion proteins were detected by confocal microscopy and immunoblot assay using a monoclonal antibody against GFP (Roche, Basel, Switzerland). Wild-type and mutant Arabidopsis plants (approximately 4 wk old, prior to bolting) were infected with TuMV–GFP, CMV-Y, and TCV as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). At 7 and 14 dpi, systemic tissues consisting of inflorescences and cauline leaves were harvested for ELISA and RNA blot assays. Antibodies used for TuMV and TCV ELISAs were as described previously (CITATION). Computational identification of repeat sequences, including transposons and retroelements, in the Arabidopsis genome was done using RepeatMasker (http://ftp.genome.washington.edu/RM/RepeatMasker.html) and Repbase (http://www.girinst.org/index.html). Further information about Arabidopsis siRNAs and miRNAs, including those that were analyzed in this work, can be found in the Arabidopsis Small RNA Project database (http://cgrb.orst.edu/smallRNA/db/).
