!~ABS~! The organization of the pre-mRNA splicing machinery has been extensively studied in mammalian and yeast cells and far less is known in living plant cells and different cell types of an intact organism. Here, we report on the expression, organization, and dynamics of pre-mRNA splicing factors (SR33, SR1/atSRp34, and atSRp30) under control of their endogenous promoters in Arabidopsis. Distinct tissue-specific expression patterns were observed, and differences in the distribution of these proteins within nuclei of different cell types were identified. These factors localized in a cell type-dependent speckled pattern as well as being diffusely distributed throughout the nucleoplasm. Electron microscopic analysis has revealed that these speckles correspond to interchromatin granule clusters. Time-lapse microscopy revealed that speckles move within a constrained nuclear space, and their organization is altered during the cell cycle. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching analysis revealed a rapid exchange rate of splicing factors in nuclear speckles. The dynamic organization of plant speckles is closely related to the transcriptional activity of the cells. The organization and dynamic behavior of speckles in Arabidopsis cell nuclei provides significant insight into understanding the functional compartmentalization of the nucleus and its relationship to chromatin organization within various cell types of a single organism.
!~RES~! To visualize the expression patterns of SR proteins in various cell types of Arabidopsis plants, we fused two SF2/ASF-like proteins (atSRp30 and SR1/atSRp34) and the SC35-like protein SR33 with YFP. The expression of each protein was placed under the control of its endogenous upstream regulatory sequence, including the promoter and 5′ untranslated region. A Gly5-Ala flexible linker was added between the splicing factors and YFP to improve their stability and folding. Transgenic plants expressing these fusions grow normally without any obvious phenotypic changes. Using this approach we were able to detect the expression of these SR proteins in living Arabidopsis plants with high spatial sensitivity and were able to follow the same plant at different developmental stages by using CLSM and fluorescence deconvolution microscopy. Signal intensities in various nuclear regions were measured from images collected under the same microscopic settings and normalized to the same exposure time for comparison of expression levels. The nuclei in tissues can be easily distinguished irrespective of cell density or expression levels among different cell types. Several independent transgenic lines expressing each construct were analyzed to exclude the influences of the transgene locations within the genome on the promoter activity. Distinct but also overlapping expression and nuclear localization patterns were observed among the three splicing factors (Figure 1). In the section of primary root near the root tip, SR33-YFP (Figure 1B) and SR1-YFP (Figure 1G) showed signals in the vascular bundle, endodermis, cortex, epidermis, and lateral root cap, whereas atSRp30-YFP was expressed mainly in the vascular bundle, lateral root cap and some epidermal cells (Figure 1L). In the differentiated basal section of the primary root, SR33-YFP (Figure 1A) and atSRp30-YFP (Figure 1K) were distributed within all cell types with the expression level of SR33-YFP higher than atSRp30-YFP, whereas SR1-YFP was expressed more highly in vascular bundles (Figure 1F). The nuclei of three distinct cell types in root, root meristematic cells (RM), root epidermal cells (RE), and root hairs (RH), are highlighted with arrows (Figure 1, A and B, F and G, K and L). In leaves, SR33-YFP (Figure 1C) shows a similar expression pattern to SR1-YFP (Figure 1H). However, the expression of atSRp30-YFP in leaves is weak and below the detection sensitivity of CLSM at these equalized settings (Figure 1M). The nuclei of three distinct cell types in leaf epidermis, guard cells (Gu), leaf epidermal pavement cells (LEP), and trichomes (Tri), are highlighted with arrows (Figure 1, C and H) (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] In inflorescence stems, the strongest signals were observed in SR1-YFP–expressing plants (Figure 1J), whereas SR33 (Figure 1E) is stronger than that of atSRp30 (Figure 1O). In flowers, all three SR proteins have high expression in the pollen grains (Figure 1, D, I, and N) with signals in vegetative nuclei (Figure 1D′, arrow) much stronger than that observed in nuclei of sperm cells (Figure 1D′, arrowheads). In sepals, petals, and young siliques, SR33 and SR1 are much more highly expressed than atSRp30 (our unpublished data). After flowering, the expression level of both SR33-YFP and SR1-YFP decreases gradually; however, SR1 decreases faster than SR33, so at the later flowering stage, the expression of SR33-YFP is stronger than that of SR1-YFP. The differences of promoter activities of SR33 and SR1/atSRp34 were also shown by tobacco infiltration experiments. Strong transient expression activity of the SR33 promoter and weak activity of the SR1/atSRp34 promoter in tobacco leaves were observed (our unpublished data). We generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants carrying individual YFP-tagged SR proteins under the control of their endogenous promoters such that the observed distribution patterns were reflection of the respective tissue and cell types. In addition, fluorescence deconvolution microscopy was used to resolve the detailed organization of SR proteins in living Arabidopsis cell types with various ploidy levels and functions. Maximum projection images of z-stacks are shown in Figure 2. Although we have not directly evaluated whether the three SR proteins colocalize in nuclei, similar localization patterns were observed in most of the cell types. The SR protein-YFP fusions localize in brightly labeled nuclear speckles varying in size, from 0.4 to 1.5 μm in diameter, in addition to a diffuse distribution throughout the nucleoplasm. Differences exist among cell types with regard to speckle number, size, density, and ratio of signal intensities between speckles and the nucleoplasm (Figure 2). We also observed a positive relationship between cellular size, nuclear volume, and ploidy level, similar to previous findings (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Small LEP (Figure 2, C, C′, and C″), sepal (Figure 2, E, E′, and E″), and petal (Figure 2, F, F′, and F″) epidermal pavement cells have the same 2C ploidy level as guard cells (Figure 2, D, D′, and D″) and RM (Figure 2, G, G′, and G″) (CITATION), but the latter have more diffuse signals of the expressed splicing factors. The localization patterns are also different in certain cell types for the three splicing factors; for example, in small leaf epidermal, sepal, and petal epidermal pavement cells, atSRp30 (Figure 2, C″, E″, and F″) is more diffuse than SR1/atSRp34 (Figure 2, C′, E′, and F′) and SR33(Figure 2, C, E, and F). The nuclei of larger LEP are enlarged and elongated with an irregular oval shape deformed by vacuoles or chloroplasts (Figure 2A), and their ploidy levels vary from 4C to 8C (CITATION). Trichomes, the largest cell type, have the largest nuclei with irregular oval shapes (Figure 2B) and ploidy levels up to 64C (CITATION). The nuclei of root epidermal cells in the differentiated zone of the root are elongated or oval shaped (Figure 2H) with ploidy levels more than 2C (CITATION). The positions and shapes of root hair nuclei are highly dynamic (Figure 2I; our unpublished data). Among these endoreduplicated cell types, the distribution of SR protein in trichomes (Figure 2, B, B′, and B″) is more diffuse and the speckles are smaller than that observed in root hairs (Figure 2, I, I′, and I″), larger leaf epidermal pavement cells (Figure 2, A, A′, and A″), or root epidermal cells (Figure 2, H, H′, and H″). Compared with mammalian cell speckles, plant speckles are smaller in average size and greater in number within the same nuclear volume. We further examined the organization of SR proteins by TEM. Ultrathin sections of the differentiated zone of Arabidopsis primary root were processed for TEM and SR proteins within IGCs were identified using 3C5 antibody (CITATION), which recognizes the SR family of pre-mRNA splicing factors. The SR proteins localize in interchromatin regions, and accumulate in speckles (arrows in Figure 3), as well as being diffusely distributed throughout the nucleoplasm (Figure 3). The regions of more concentrated antibody labeling are composed of clusters of 20- to 30-nm granules that are connected in places by thin fibrils forming a loosely associated meshwork. These clusters of granules are IGCs. Labeled fibrillar regions seem to extend between the periphery of condensed chromatin and IGCs (Figure 3). In some cases, immunolabeled fibrillar regions, possibly corresponding to perichromatin fibrils, seem directly in association with the periphery of condensed chromatin (Figure 3). This distribution is similar to that observed in mammalian cells or tissues (for reviews, see CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Leaf epidermal pavement cell nuclei, which have an obvious speckled pattern of pre-mRNA splicing factors, were then used to visualize the dynamics of splicing factors in vivo by time-lapse three-dimensional microscopy. A region of rosette leaf (∼0.5 cm2) was cut and mounted in water, and a 60×/1.20 numerical aperture water immersion objective lens was used to follow the dynamics of nuclear speckles at room temperature. Data sets were collected at 15-s intervals over a 30-min time period. Stacks of images at each time point were deconvolved, and the projections at eight successive time points are shown in Figure 4 (see online Supplementary Video 1). During periods of up to 30 min, most speckles were observed to be moving within a constrained volume of ∼1 μm3 with respect to the total nuclear volume of ∼280 μm3. Some speckles were observed to fuse or bud from each other during the imaging period (arrows in Figure 4). A few speckles moved into another nearby area and then resumed their constrained movement. Other speckles disassembled into the nucleoplasm or formed at new sites. Some adjacent speckles are connected by less intensely labeled fluorescent signals. The pre-mRNA splicing factors seem to be dissociating or associating with speckles or to be exchanging between nearby speckles, resulting in changes in the shape of these speckles (Figure 4, arrowhead). In ∼5% of the leaf epidermal pavement cells, one to three speckles entered into the nucleoli and moved rapidly within this nuclear domain (see online Supplementary Video 2). Identical dynamic events of speckles were observed in SR1/atSRp34-YFP, SR33-YFP, and atSRp30-YFP transgenic plants. [[FIGURE]] To further determine the dynamics of SR proteins in speckles, we used FRAP analysis. A region of leaf (∼0.5 cm2) from SR1/atSRp34-YFP or SR33-YFP transgenic plants was mounted in water. After five single scans were acquired, a 1.7 × 1.7-μm2 nuclear region that contains a speckle was photobleached, and a series of images were acquired immediately after bleaching (Figure 5A). Subsequently, the relative intensity of fluorescence within the photobleached area was calculated as described previously (CITATION). In addition, the level and rate of the fluorescence recovery, as fluorescent molecules from outside the photobleached zone migrated into the bleached area, was determined (Figure 5B). Consistent results were obtained from leaves of plants containing transgene SR1/atSRp34- or SR33-YFP, the SR proteins exchange from the speckle with a half time of recovery of ∼2.5 s. [[FIGURE]] Time-lapse fluorescence microscopy was applied to study the in vivo dynamics of splicing factors during mitosis in root epidermal cells. G2 cells (Figure 6A, arrow) have larger nuclei (6.6 ± 0.25 μm in diameter) with large nucleoli (3.9 ± 0.12 μm in diameter) in comparison to G1 cell nuclei (4.8 ± 0.18 μm in diameter) with nucleoli measuring 3.15 ± 0.16 μm in diameter. On entry into mitosis, as the nuclear envelope breaks down, the splicing factor labeling intensity is gradually reduced as these factors become distributed throughout the cell (Figure 6, A–C). In metaphase, the splicing factors are diffusely distributed throughout the cytoplasm, represented as a rectangular shape, typical of the cell wall shape of root epidermal cells (Figure 6D). In later telophase, as the nuclear envelope is reformed, the SR proteins reenter into the daughter nuclei. Several speckles are observed in the telophase nuclei (Figure 6, F–I, arrows). The daughter nuclei acquire a typical interphase spherical shape and the nucleolus gradually forms (Figure 6, E–J). Mitosis in these root epidermal cells lasts ∼30 min (see online Supplementary Video 3). [[FIGURE]] As splicing of most pre-mRNAs occurs cotranscriptionally (for review, see CITATION), we were interested in examining how the organization and dynamics we observed are related to RNA polymerase II transcription in living plant cells. Seedlings were incubated for 5 h with 50 μg/ml DRB, an inhibitor of transcription (CITATION). This drug affects phosphorylation of the C-terminal domain of the large subunit of RNA polymerase II and prevents elongation of nascent transcripts (CITATION). After drug treatment the splicing factors in leaf epidermal pavement cells further accumulated into speckles with less diffuse nucleoplasmic signals (Figure 7B), whereas the splicing factors in trichome nuclei reorganized into thousands of “microspeckles” (Figure 7D). [[FIGURE]] In addition to the reorganization of splicing factors upon transcriptional inhibition, we found that the most striking effect of transcriptional inhibition is the abolition of speckle dynamics, these enriched speckles or microspeckles became essentially stationary, neither the fast speckle movement nor association/disassociation of fluorescent signals from or into the speckles were observed (see online Supplementary Video 4). The organization and dynamics of SR proteins in leaves or roots immersed in water at 22°C for 5 h have no obvious changes (Figure 7, A and C, in comparison with the same cell type in Figure 2, A and B). DRB had no detectable effect on overall nuclear morphology or the diffuse distribution of a YFP-tetR-NLS fusion protein under the identical experimental conditions (Figure 7, E and F).
!~MM~! Upstream regulatory sequence of atSRp30 (At1g09140) (CITATION), SR1/atSRp34 (At1g02840) (CITATION; CITATION), and SR33 (At1g55310) (CITATION) plus their complete 5′ untranslated regions was amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from genomic DNA of A. thaliana (ecotype, Columbia); primers for SR33 promoter were 5′-NNNAAGCTTCATTATAAGATAAACCTTCTAG-3′ and 5′-NNNGGATCCTGAGTCAAGCTTCAATCTCTC-3′; primers for SR1/atSRp34 promoter were 5′-NNNAAGCTTAAATATTGAACCGGCCTCGGTTC-3′ and 5′-NNNGGATCCTCTTCCTTTATCAAATCC-3′; and primers for atSRp30 promoter were 5′-NNNAAGCTTTAATTCTTAGATTCTACAATC-3′ and 5′-NNNGGATCCCTGATACCTCAGAGCAGAAA-3′. The amplified promoter fragments containing a HindIII site at their 5′ end and a BamHI site at their 3′ end were digested with HindIII and BamHI. For the SR33 promoter region with an extra HindIII site, partial HindIII digestion and complete BamHI digestion were applied to clone the intact promoter sequence. SR33 coding sequence was amplified from a SR33 cDNA clone (CITATION) by using primers 5′-NNNGGATCCATGAGGGGAAGGAGCTACACT-3′ and 5′-NNNACCGGTCGCTGGCTTGGTGAACGGTCTTC-3′; SR1/atSRp34 coding sequence was amplified from pUC35S-SR1nos (CITATION) by using primers 5′-NNNGGATCCATGAGCA GTCGTTCGAGTAGA-3′ and 5′-NNNACCGGTCGCCTCGATGGACTCATAGTGTG-3′; atSRp30 coding sequence was amplified from pC30 (CITATION) by using primers 5′-NNNGGATCCATGAGTAGCCGATGGAATCGT-3′ and 5′-NNNACCGGTCGACCAGATATCACAGGTGAAAC-3′. The amplified coding sequences containing a BamHI site at their 5′ end and an AgeI site at their 3′ end were digested with BamHI and AgeI. The coding sequence of yellow fluorescence protein (YFP) was amplified from pYFP-N1 (BD Biosciences Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) by using primers 5′-NNNACCGGTCGGAGGTGGAGGTGGAGCTGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGAGCTG-3′ and 5′-NNNGAGCTCTTACTTGTACAGCTCGTCCAT-3′; a flexible linker Gly-Gly-Gly-Gly-Gly-Ala was added at the N terminus of YFP. The terminator used was nopaline synthase (Nos) terminator, which was cut from pBI121 (CITATION) by restriction enzymes SacI and EcoRI. These proof-reading–amplified fragments were confirmed by sequencing and then directionally subcloned into the HindIII/EcoRI digested vector pCambia2300 (CAMBIA, Canberra, Australia) with the direction of Hin-dIII-SR protein promoter-BamHI-SR protein coding sequence-AgeI-Gly5-Ala linker-YFP-SacI-Nos terminator-EcoRI to obtain the final binary vectors. A control protein YFP-tetR-NLS (tetR, tetracycline repressor protein; NLS, nuclear localization signal) was placed under the control of pSR1/atSRp34, and then subcloned into the pCambia2300 vector. The constructs described above were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 by electroporation. A. thaliana (ecotype Columbia) plants were transformed by the floral dip method (CITATION). Independent T1 transgenic lines were selected on MS medium (CITATION) containing 50 mg/l kanamycin. Transgenic lines carrying one copy of transgene were used for imaging. Plants were grown in a growth chamber under 16-h light/8-h dark conditions at 23°C. For time-lapse imaging of root, transgenic T2 seeds were sterilized for 15 min in 15% sodium hypochlorite. Five to eight seeds were sown onto a LabTek II one-well chambered coverglass system (Nalge Nunc International, Naperville, IL) containing MS medium supplemented with 2% sucrose and 0.3% Gelrite (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO). After the primary root grows down-ward and then along the No. 1.5 borosilicate coverglass, the roots that tightly contacted the coverglass were visualized on the stage of an inverted microscope. Inflorescence stems, anthers, and rosette leaves (∼0.5 × 0.5 cm2) were cut and mounted in water between two 50 × 24-mm No. 1.5 coverslips and immediately used for imaging. An LSM510 confocal laser scanning microscope and a 10× apochromat objective (Carl Zeiss, Thornwood, NY) was used to visualize the expression of SR protein-yellow fluorescent protein fusion proteins in primary roots, inflorescence stems, leaves, flowers, and young siliques from transgenic T2 Arabidopsis plants. YFP fluorescence was monitored using a 505- to 550-nm band pass emission filter and 488-nm excitation line of an Ar/Kr laser. Eighteen optical sections with a z step of 2.0 μm for inflorescence stems, and 16 optical sections with a z step of 1.5 μm for anthers, roots, and leaves were collected and projected as final images. Five-day old Arabidopsis seedlings were fixed in 2% formaldehyde/0.2% glutaraldehyde in phosphate-buffered saline (pH 7.4). The samples were dehydrated and embedded in LR White resin (Electron Microscopy Sciences, Fort Washington, PA). Embedded roots were thin sectioned (100 nm). Immunogold labeling was performed for SR splicing factors by incubating sections in monoclonal antibody 3C5 (CITATION), rinsing off unbound antibody before incubating the sections in goat anti-mouse IgM conjugated to 5-nm colloidal gold (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ). After a rinse in distilled water, the sections were air dried and counterstained with uranyl acetate. Sections were examined using a Hitachi H-7000 TEM operated at 75 kV. Three-dimensional image stacks of nuclei were acquired at room temperature with a DeltaVision restoration microscope system (Applied Precision, Issaquah, WA) consisting of an IX70 inverted microscope (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) equipped with an UPLANAPO water immersion objective lens (60×, numerical aperture 1.20; Olympus), and a Photometrics (Roper Scientific, Trenton, NJ) cooled charged-coupled device camera configured at 0.1122 μm/pixel. Filters used for YFP were exciter, 495/20 nm/nm; emitter: 535/30 nm/nm; and 86006bs beamspitter (Chroma Technology, Brattleboro, VT). The image stacks of nuclei with a Z step size of 0.15 μm were subjected to constrained iterative (15 iterations) deconvolution (CITATION) by using softWoRx software (Applied Precision) on an Octane Workstation (SGI, Mountain View, CA). The maximum projection or the middle optical section of the deconvolved sections were exported to TIF format and then processed by Adobe Photoshop 6.0 for the final images. The signal intensities, nuclear domain sizes or volumes were measured using softWoRx software. A region of leaf (∼ 0.5 × 0.5 cm2) was mounted in water and observed using an LSM 510 confocal CLSM with a C-Apochromat 40×/1.20 objective lens (Carl Zeiss). The nuclei were excited with a laser at 488 nm, and emission was collected using a 505-to 530-nm-long-pass filter. After five single scans were acquired at a resolution of 128 by 128 pixels, a selected region of fixed size (1.7 × 1.7 μm2) in the nucleus embracing a speckle was bleached at a set laser power of 15 mW for 40 iterations. A series of images were collected immediately after photobleaching. Signal intensity was quantified using LSM software (Carl Zeiss) or softWorx (Applied Precision). The average background signal intensity was measured from images of wild-type plants (CITATION). The relative fluorescence intensity (RFI) at each time point was calculated as described previously (CITATION) from the background-subtracted images. RFI = (FIBt/FINt)/(FIB0/FIN0), where FIBt is the average fluorescence intensity of the photobleached region at time points after photobleaching, FINt is the average fluorescence intensity of the entire nucleus at the corresponding time point, FIB0 is the average fluorescence intensity of the photobleached region before photobleaching, and FIN0 is the average fluorescence intensity of the entire nucleus before photobleaching. Ten-day-old transgenic T2 seedlings or rosette leaves were immersed in 50 μg/ml 5,6-dichloro-1-β-d-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole (DRB) for 5 h at 22°C. After treatment, the leaves or seedlings were washed with water and visualized using the DeltaVision restoration microscope system described above.
