!~ABS~! The biosynthesis of iron-sulfur clusters is a highly regulated process involving several proteins. Among them, so-called scaffold proteins play pivotal roles in both the assembly and delivery of iron-sulfur clusters. Here, we report the identification of two chloroplast-localized NifU-like proteins, AtCnfU-V and AtCnfU-IVb, from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) with high sequence similarity to a cyanobacterial NifU-like protein that was proposed to serve as a molecular scaffold. AtCnfU-V is constitutively expressed in several tissues of Arabidopsis, whereas the expression of AtCnfU-IVb is prominent in the aerial parts. Mutant Arabidopsis lacking AtCnfU-V exhibited a dwarf phenotype with faint pale-green leaves and had drastically impaired photosystem I accumulation. Chloroplasts in the mutants also showed a decrease in both the amount of ferredoxin, a major electron carrier of the stroma that contains a [2Fe-2S] cluster, and in the in vitro activity of iron-sulfur cluster insertion into apo-ferredoxin. When expressed in Escherichia coli cells, AtCnfU-V formed a homodimer carrying a [2Fe-2S]-like cluster, and this cluster could be transferred to apo-ferredoxin in vitro to form holo-ferredoxin. We propose that AtCnfU has an important function as a molecular scaffold for iron-sulfur cluster biosynthesis in chloroplasts and thereby is required for biogenesis of ferredoxin and photosystem I.
!~RES~! We previously demonstrated that CnfU from cyanobacterium Synechocystis PCC6803 functions as a scaffold for the assembly and delivery of iron-sulfur clusters (CITATION). Recently, CnfU was found to be essential for cell viability, suggesting that it serves as a major scaffold for iron-sulfur cluster biosynthesis in this organism (K. Morimoto, T. Yabe, and M. Nakai, unpublished results). Because chloroplasts are believed to evolve from cyanobacterial-like ancestral endosymbionts, we hypothesized that higher plant chloroplasts also may have kept a CnfU homolog to act in iron-sulfur cluster biosynthesis in the organelle. Therefore, we searched the Arabidopsis EST database and genomic database using the TBLASTN program (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast) for any protein homologous to the cyanobacterial CnfU and identified five different hypothetical proteins (Table 1). All of them had EST records, albeit in varying degrees, indicating that they are expressed in vivo. Next, we did a sequence alignment of the identified Arabidopsis homologs with the cyanobacterial CnfU and also with a yeast mitochondrial Nfu1p that also showed sequence similarity to the C-terminal domain of the A. vinelandii NifU (Figure 1A). Interestingly, all five Arabidopsis homologs contained N-terminal extensions, compared with the cyanobacterial CnfU. Analysis by TargetP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) and PSORT (http://psort.ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp/form.html) programs for the prediction of subcellular localization suggested that three of the proteins might localize to chloroplasts (named AtCnfU-IVa, AtCnfU-IVb, and AtCnfU-V, which are coded by At4g25910 [atCNFU3], At4g01940 [atCNFU1], and At5g49940 [atCNFU2], respectively) and that the other two (named AtNfu-I and AtNfu-III, which are coded by At1g51390 [atNFU1] and At3g20970 [atNFU2], respectively) might reside on mitochondria. According to the presumptive mitochondrial targeting sequences, the latter two contain an extra conserved domain (residues 113 to 183 of AtNfu-I and residues 118 to 188 of AtNfu-III) that is common to known mitochondrial Nfu proteins and α-proteobacterial homologs. Phylogenetic analysis (Figure 1B) also suggests that the Arabidopsis homologs can be divided into two evolutionarily distinct groups: a mitochondrial type, including AtNfu-I and AtNfu-III, which show high similarity to the yeast mitochondrial Nfu1p, and a chloroplastic type, including AtCnfU-IVa, AtCnfU-IVb, and AtCnfU-V, which are more strongly related to the cyanobacterial CnfU. This classification supports the predicted intracellular localizations as described above. Arabidopsis NifU-Like Proteins [[FIGURE]] Further sequence analysis revealed that all three chloroplastic-type homologs are comprised of two repeated cyanobacterial CnfU domains (Figure 1C). In addition, the sequence similarity to the cyanobacterial CnfU was higher in the N-terminal domains, rather than at the C termini. Interestingly, whereas their N-terminal CnfU domains retain the highly conserved (Ala)-Cys-X-X-Cys motif, the C-terminal domains lack this motif (Figure 1D). The cyanobacterial CnfU is known to form a dimer, with one [2Fe-2S] cluster assembled intermoleculary between two Cys-X-X-Cys motifs; four Cys residues therefore function as the ligand for one [2Fe-2S] cluster (CITATION). It is possible that chloroplastic CnfUs might therefore also form a dimer, which binds a [2Fe-2S] cluster between two Cys-X-X-Cys motifs of the two identical N-terminal domains. This possibility is addressed later in this report (Figures 10, 11, and 12). To identify the localization of the AtCnfU proteins on the chloroplast, an in vitro import study and protein gel blot analysis were performed as shown in Figures 2A and 2B, respectively. AtCnfU-IVa and AtCnfU-V are closely related to each other (72% identity between their presumptive mature sequences) and also show significant similarity in their predicted transit sequences. Based on the numbers of EST records and on our quantitative estimation (described below), AtCnfU-IVb and AtCnfU-V are predominantly expressed, whereas AtCnfU-IVa is a minor player. Therefore, AtCnfU-IVb and AtCnfU-V were analyzed as representatives of this protein type. Both precursor proteins could be imported into isolated Pisum sativum (pea) chloroplasts and processed to their mature forms, which were recovered in the stromal fraction (Figure 2A). The stromal localization of AtCnfU-IVb and AtCnfU-V was confirmed by protein gel blotting using specific antibodies as shown in Figure 2B. We also confirmed the localization of one of the two highly homologous AtNfu proteins (90% overall identity between their presumed mature sequences), AtNfu-III, as mitochondrial by in vitro import into isolated P. sativum mitochondria (T. Yabe and M. Nakai, unpublished results). Our results therefore showed that Arabidopsis possesses multiple chloroplast-localized CnfU homologs, AtCnfU-IVb, AtCnfU-V, and most likely AtCnfU-IVa. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the expression pattern of chloroplastic CnfU proteins in various plant tissues, we performed protein gel blot analysis on protein extracts prepared from roots, true leaves, cauline leaves, flower stalks, and flowers of 23-d-old wild-type Arabidopsis. AtCnfU-IVb was predominantly expressed in aerial parts, whereas AtCnfU-V was constitutively expressed in various tissues, including roots (Figure 2C). This pattern coincided with that of the stromal molecular chaperone, cpHsp70, suggesting that AtCnfU-V has a widespread housekeeping function in the plant. Quantification using recombinant proteins as standards indicated that AtCnfU-IVb and AtCnfU-V each represent ∼0.03% of total cellular protein of Arabidopsis (Figure 2D). Because of the high sequence similarity, anti-AtCnfU-V antibodies used in this study could cross-react with recombinant AtCnfU-IVa, a minor homolog (data not shown), although no additional immunoreactive bands were observed in the protein extracts prepared from AtCnfU-V–lacking plants, as described later (Figure 3B). Therefore, from the observed cross-reactivity of anti-AtCnfU-V antibodies to the recombinant AtCnfU-IVa, we could estimate the expression level of AtCnfU-IVa to be less than one-tenth of AtCnfU-V (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the physiological role of chloroplast-localized CnfU proteins, we characterized Arabidopsis mutants in which a nuclear gene (atCNFU2) encoding the constitutively expressed AtCnfU-V was disrupted. In the sequence-indexed Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion mutants provided by the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory, several candidate mutant lines were identified. From these lines, two homozygous mutant lines, atcnfU2-1 and atcnfU2-2, each carrying a T-DNA insertion at a different site in the atCNFU2 gene were isolated (Figure 3A). Gene disruptions by the T-DNA insertion were confirmed by protein gel blot analysis and RT-PCR (Figures 3B and 3C). No immunoreactive bands were obvious by protein gel blot analysis, indicating that both alleles are null. Both of the T-DNA insertion mutants described above were fertile and could be maintained as a homozygous line, suggesting that the atCNFU2 gene is not necessary for viability. However, both homozygous plants showed a marked dwarf phenotype in aerial parts and strikingly in the roots, even when they were germinated and grown on rich Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2% sucrose (Figures 3D, 3F, and 3G). The leaves of the mutant plants were pale green and recorded a decrease in chlorophyll level (Figure 3E). Growth of heterozygous lines was indistinguishable from that of wild-type plants, indicating that both alleles are recessive. Because two independently isolated mutants (atcnfU2-1 and atcnfU2-2) showed similar dwarf and pale-green leaf phenotypes (as shown here) and because these phenotypes were clearly linked to the presence of a homozygous T-DNA insertion (i.e., for either allele, cosegregation was found in 9 plants out of 32), we conclude that the observed phenotypes were actually caused by the AtCnfU-V deficiency. We then examined the growth defects of the homozygous atcnfU2-1 mutant in more detail. First, we compared the growth of wild-type and atcnfU2-1 plants under long-day or short-day conditions in MS medium with or without 2% sucrose (Figures 4a to 4h). Under all conditions analyzed, the mutants showed considerable dwarf and pale-green leaf phenotypes. The most marked growth inhibition and chlorosis were observed in plants grown under short-day conditions without sucrose (Figure 4h). These results suggest that photosynthetic growth is largely affected by the AtCnfU-V deficiency. We confirmed that photosynthetic oxygen evolution activity per unit of leaf area was indeed decreased in the mutants as compared with the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). [[FIGURE]] Light microscopic observation of 18-d-old true leaves revealed that leaf cells were significantly smaller in the atcnfU2-1 mutant than in the wild type (Figures 4i and 4j). Although the apparent chloroplast size in the mutant was not obviously different from the wild type, mutant cells seemed to contain slightly fewer chloroplasts, which might be the reason for the pale-green appearance of the mutant leaves. Root hairs of the mutants were shorter than those of wild-type plants, and the longitudinal lengths of atcnfU2-1 root cells were markedly shorter, making the root hairs appear more densely distributed in the mutant roots. The dwarf phenotype of atcnfU2-1 also was prominent at the flower stalks, inflorescence, and siliques (Figures 4m to 4p), and the seed yield was severely diminished in the mutants. All phenotypes described here for the atcnfU2-1 mutants also were observed in the atcnfU2-2 mutants (data not shown). To examine whether steady state levels of various chloroplast proteins would be altered in the mutants, protein gel blot analysis of protein extracts from 28-d-old wild-type, atcnfU2-1, and atcnfU2-2 mutant plants that were grown photoautotrophically without sucrose was performed. As shown in Figure 5A, the non-iron-sulfur proteins RbcL and RbcS were present at equivalent levels in all protein extracts. Among the stromal iron-sulfur proteins analyzed in this study, levels of ferredoxin, a multifunctional electron carrier containing [2Fe-2S] cluster, were severely diminished in the mutant plants (∼30% of the wild type), and sulfite reductase and nitrate reductase levels were slightly decreased (∼75% of the wild type) (Figure 5B). By contrast, the levels of the stromal chaperone proteins cpHsp70 and cpCpn60a were moderately higher in the mutants. [[FIGURE]] Surprisingly, the levels of all photosystem I (PSI) polypeptides that were analyzed, including PsaAB, PsaC, and PsaD, were markedly lower in the mutants (20 to 30% of the wild type), whereas levels of subunits of photosystem II (PSII) and other protein complexes, including light-harvesting complex (LHC), ATPase (Figure 5B), and cytochrome b6f (data not shown), were found to be normal. The electron flux through the photosynthetic electron transport chain can be assessed in vivo by monitoring chlorophyll fluorescence, which represents the redox state of PSII (Figure 6A), and by measurement of P700 absorbance changes, which represent the redox state of PSI (Figure 6B). [[FIGURE]] As shown in Figure 6A, when PSII is in the open state, the level of fluorescence is low (Fo) because the majority of light energy absorbed by PSII can be used to drive electron transfer. By contrast, when the PSII reaction center is closed (fully reduced) upon illumination, fluorescence reaches a maximum level (Fm). Fluorescence is then quenched by photochemical (qP) and nonphotochemical processes and finally when the actinic light is switched off, fluorescence returns to the Fo level. The Fv/Fm ratio, in which Fv represents Fm-Fo, was considerably diminished in the atcnfU2 mutant plants (Figure 6A, Table 2). However, mutant plants showed increased 1-qP values, indicating more reduced states of plastoquinone QA of PS II. Furthermore, even after the actinic light was switched off, chlorophyll fluorescence in the mutants did not return to the Fo level as quickly as in the wild-type. All these phenomena could be attributed to an impaired electron flow downstream of PSII. Chlorophyll Fluorescence Parameters and the Redox State of P700 of Wild-Type and atcnfU2 Mutant Plants Determination of the absorbance changes of P700 of PSI under far-red light revealed that ΔA820/A820 was at least 2.7-fold lower in the atcnfU2 mutant plants than in the wild-type plants (Figure 6B, Table 2). Taken together, these data clearly indicate that electron transport through PSI is significantly affected in the mutant plants. To directly assess the assembly of PSI and other photosynthetic complexes, we used blue native gel electrophoresis (CITATION) with isolated wild-type or atcnfU2-1 mutant chloroplasts solubilized with 0.5% n-dodecyl-β-d-maltoside (Figure 7). Although the mutant chloroplasts had normal or moderately increased levels of assembled PSII/LHCII supercomplexes, ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase, ATPase, cytochrome b6f, and LHCII, they had markedly reduced levels of assembled PSI complex. This observation was consistent with results obtained from the protein gel blot analysis shown in Figure 5 and the measurements of photosynthetic electron transport activities shown in Figure 6 and Table 2. Semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis with representative genes for PSI subunits and ferredoxin demonstrated that the atcnfU2 mutations had no effect on the accumulation of their transcripts (see Supplemental Figure 2A online), suggesting that AtCnfU-V is crucial for posttranscriptional steps in biogenesis of PSI and ferredoxin. [[FIGURE]] Cyanobacterial CnfU has been shown to function as an iron-sulfur cluster scaffold protein (CITATION), and proper insertion of three [4Fe-4S] clusters (FA, FB, and FX) is known to be essential for overall assembly and accumulation of PSI subunits (CITATION). Therefore, the severe reduction in the steady state levels of both PSI and ferredoxin might be attributable to decreased iron-sulfur cluster biosynthetic activity in the atcnfU2 mutant chloroplasts. We analyzed the iron-sulfur cluster biosynthetic activity using chloroplast extracts prepared from the wild-type and mutant plants. However, when the mutants were grown photoautotrophically without sucrose, plants showed a severe dwarf phenotype and chloroplasts were less developed; therefore, it was difficult to isolate sufficient mutant chloroplasts for such biochemical analysis. Consequently, chloroplasts were isolated from mutant and wild-type plants that were grown with sucrose. As shown in Supplemental Figure 3 online, under these growth conditions, levels of ferredoxin were severely diminished in the mutant plants compared with the wild type, whereas levels of other iron-sulfur proteins remained normal (sulfite reductase) or were only slightly decreased (PsaC) in the mutants. Levels of ferredoxin mRNA were not markedly reduced in the mutants (see Supplemental Figure 2B online), suggesting that the lowered steady state level of ferredoxin was probably because of a posttranscriptional defect in the mutants. Whereas other possibilities (e.g., decreased translation or increased protein turnover) seemed to be possible, we tested whether this posttranscriptional defect was inefficient conversion of apo-ferredoxin to holo-ferredoxin in the atcnfU2 chloroplasts by measuring the stromal activity of iron-sulfur cluster insertion into externally added apo-ferredoxin in vitro. Stromal extracts were prepared from either the wild-type or the atcnfU2-2 chloroplasts and showed similar profiles on SDS-PAGE (Figure 8A) and protein gel blotting, with the exception of the absence of AtCnfU-V in the mutant extracts (Figure 8B). AtCnfU-IVb levels remained unchanged in the mutant stroma. Stromal extracts were incubated at 25°C with the in vitro–synthesized apo-ferredoxin (a maize [Zea mays] photosynthetic ferredoxin, Fd I). Conversion of apo-ferredoxin to the holo-form was analyzed by nondenaturing PAGE and fluorography after various incubation periods (Figures 8C and 8D). Holo-ferredoxin formation was still observed in the atcnfU2-2 stromal extracts, but the rate was significantly lower than that in the wild type (∼35%). Similar results were obtained under more reducing conditions (i.e., in the presence of 1 mM DTT, see Supplemental Figure 4 online). To exclude the possibility that the observed lowered iron-sulfur cluster insertion activity might be a secondary effect of the reduced amount of ferredoxin residing in the mutant stroma, we added back a comparable amount of purified holo-ferredoxin to the mutant stroma and analyzed the activity. The addition of holo-ferredoxin could not rescue the mutant stroma (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). Thus, we concluded that the stromal iron-sulfur cluster insertion activity was indeed partially impaired in the absence of AtCnfU-V protein and that this lowered activity most likely causes the decreased accumulation of steady state levels of ferredoxin. [[FIGURE]] We previously showed that cyanobacterial CnfU binds a [2Fe-2S] cluster and can deliver the cluster to apo-ferredoxin without the aid of other factors (CITATION). Therefore, we examined whether the chloroplast-localized CnfU homolog also binds a [2Fe-2S] cluster and can deliver the cluster to apo-ferredoxin. To do this, a predicted mature moiety of AtCnfU-V (corresponding to amino acid residues 83 to 235) was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified to homogeneity as a 23-kD protein on SDS-PAGE gels; this was slightly larger than the calculated molecular size of 16,821, probably because of its fairly acidic nature (pI = 4.1) (Figure 9A). The purified AtCnfU-V showed a characteristic UV/visible absorption spectrum with peak maxima at 330, 420, and 460 nm, which are typical for the [2Fe-2S]-type cluster (Figure 9B). The absorption spectrum of purified AtCnfU-V was remarkably similar to that of the cyanobacterial CnfU (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Then we examined whether the [2Fe-2S]-like cluster-containing AtCnfU-V could deliver its iron-sulfur cluster to apo-ferredoxin. Upon incubation with the purified AtCnfU-V, the in vitro–synthesized apo-ferredoxin was efficiently converted to holo-form in a dose- and temperature-dependent manner (Figure 9C, see Supplemental Figure 6 online). To know if a stoichiometry between holo-ferredoxin formed and holo-AtCnfU-V consumed during the reaction, we conducted an iron-sulfur cluster transfer assay using a defined amount of purified apo-ferredoxin instead of the radiolabeled protein and purified AtCnfU-V, as already established in our previous study on the cyanobacterial CnfU protein (CITATION). Apo-ferredoxin was prepared by boiling in the presence of EDTA and DTT followed by gel filtration to remove low molecular weight molecules such as sulfur, iron, or their derivatives liberated from the ferredoxin polypeptides by denaturation. As shown in Figure 9D, the holo-ferredoxin retained its characteristic pink-red color during electrophoresis (unstained gel), whereas the apo-form was completely colorless but could be visualized after Coomassie blue staining (CBB-stained gel). The purified AtCnfU-V separated into two major bands: a faster migrating band, which was colorless during electrophoresis and most likely corresponded to its monomeric apo-form, and a slower migrating band that was pink-red, characteristic of the iron-sulfur cluster, suggesting it corresponded to the dimeric holo-AtCnfU-V. This interpretation was consistent with the results of subsequent gel filtration analysis (Figure 10). Holo-ferredoxin (∼3 μg) was reconstituted when apo-ferredoxin (20 μg) was incubated with purified AtCnfU-V (20 μg) (Figure 9D), whereas approximately half of the added AtCnfU-V (∼10 μg) was converted to colorless apo-form. The loss of color intensity in the holo-AtCnfU-V band appeared to be well correlated with the gain of color in the reconstituted holo-ferredoxin (Figure 9D, unstained gel). Also, given one [2Fe-2S] cluster initially bound each holo-AtCnfU-V dimer as suggested later (Figure 10), 0.59 nmoles (= 0.295 nmoles of dimer) of AtCnfU-V (molecular weight = 16821; 10 μg equivalent) was consumed to reconstitute 0.29 nmoles of holo-ferredoxin (molecular weight = 10512; 3 μg equivalent), suggesting stoichiometric transfer of iron-sulfur cluster between these two molecules. [[FIGURE]] We next performed gel filtration to learn more about the molecular status of the purified AtCnfU-V. Absorbance at 280 nm (Trp and tyrosine residues) of the gel filtrate revealed two peaks: a major peak (around fraction 4) and a minor peak (around fraction 6) whose apparent molecular sizes were estimated as ∼48 kD and 23 kD, respectively (Figure 10A, top, solid line). Only the major peak exhibited absorption at both 330 nm and 420 nm, which is characteristic for the presence of a [2Fe-2S] cluster (Figure 10A, middle and bottom, solid lines). Protein gel blotting confirmed that both peaks contained AtCnfU-V protein (Figure 10B, top). Because the purified AtCnfU-V fraction used for the gel filtration was essentially pure, as shown in Figure 9A, we concluded that the purified AtCnfU-V existed as an iron-sulfur cluster-containing dimer and also as an apo-monomer. The [2Fe-2S] cluster assembled in the cyanobacterial CnfU became unstable upon incubation with EDTA (CITATION). Furthermore, the cluster was extremely labile upon reduction by dithionite (Na2S2O4) (K. Morimoto, T. Yabe, and M. Nakai, unpublished results). Such a reductively labile property is known to be common among the iron-sulfur clusters assembled in other scaffold proteins (IscU, IscA, and NifU) involved in iron-sulfur cluster biosynthesis (CITATION, CITATION). Therefore, we analyzed the effect of iron chelation and reduction on the stability of the [2Fe-2S]-like cluster retained in the AtCnfU-V dimer. As shown in Figure 10A, whereas EDTA caused a slight decrease in the absorption at 280, 330, and 420 nm of the peak around fraction 4 corresponding to the AtCnfU-V dimer, dithionite resulted in almost a complete loss of iron-sulfur cluster from the AtCnfU-V dimer as judged by the decrease in absorbance at 330 nm and 420 nm. In both cases, corresponding amounts of the apo-form of AtCnfU-V monomer accumulated, which were apparent as an increase in absorbance at 280 nm of the smaller peak around fraction 6 (Figure 10A). Conversion of dimeric AtCnfU-V to a monomeric form upon incubation with EDTA or dithionite was confirmed by protein gel blotting, as shown in Figure 10B. Although dithionite seemed to remove almost all of the iron-sulfur cluster retained in the holo-AtCnfU-V dimer and most of the dimer was converted to the apo-monomer, a significant amount of dimeric AtCnfU-V still remained (Figure 10B, bottom), suggesting that a fraction of AtCnfU-V was in an apo-dimeric form. To demonstrate that it is specifically the iron-sulfur cluster-containing AtCnfU-V dimer that serves as the iron-sulfur cluster donor for reconstitution of holo-ferredoxin and not its apo-monomer or any low molecular weight impurities in the purified AtCnfU-V fraction used in the reconstitution assay shown in Figure 9, we performed a similar reconstitution assay with purified apo-ferredoxin and fractions that were obtained after reseparation of the purified AtCnfU-V proteins on gel filtration. Only the dimeric AtCnfU-V (fraction I), and not the apo-monomer (fraction II) or any salts (fraction III), led to formation of holo-ferredoxin (Figures 11A and 11B). This reconstitution activity decreased moderately when the AtCnfU-V was pretreated briefly with dithionite to liberate some bound iron and inorganic sulfur atoms before gel filtration separation (Figures 11A and 11B, + dithionite). This further discounted the possibility that any liberated low molecular weight compounds were responsible for holo-ferredoxin formation. [[FIGURE]] In addition, holo-ferredoxin formation could be observed even in the presence of millimolar levels of EDTA (Figure 11C), which caused only slight disruption of the iron-sulfur cluster assembled in the AtCnfU (Figure 10). By contrast, chemical iron-sulfur cluster formation with ferrous ion and sulfide was completely blocked by the addition of EDTA (see Supplemental Figure 9A online). We also found that the stromal activity of iron-sulfur cluster insertion could not be blocked by the addition of EDTA (see Supplemental Figure 9B online). Taken together, these data suggest that the formation of holo-ferredoxin by AtCnfU-V was the result of the direct transfer of the iron-sulfur cluster from the holo-AtCnfU-V dimer to apo-ferredoxin. Therefore, AtCnfU-V can serve as a scaffold for iron-sulfur cluster assembly and delivery to apo-ferredoxin.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) was grown on MS medium (1× MS salts [Sigma, St. Louis, MO], 0.1% Gamborg's vitamin solution [Sigma], and 0.3% Phytagel [Sigma]) with or without 2% sucrose, or on vermiculite as soil, with a 16-h-light at 23°C/8-h-dark at 21°C cycle for a long-day condition or with continuous light at 23°C; for a short-day condition, the plants were grown with an 8-h-light/16-h-dark cycle. T-DNA insertion mutant lines of AtCnfU-V, SALK_011376 and SALK_039254, were provided by the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory. The nucleotide sequences adjacent to the T-DNA insertion sites were confirmed by genomic PCR and DNA sequencing; in atcnfU2-1, the T-DNA left-border sequence starts downstream of base 268 (amino acid residue 50), if the translation initiation site is counted as base 1, and in atcnfU2-2, the T-DNA left-border sequence starts upstream of base 1355 (amino acid residue 132). Preparation of mRNA was performed using a Quick Prep mRNA purification kit (Pharmacia, Piscataway, NJ) from total RNAs, which were isolated from 8-d-old whole plants or from 23-d-old leaves of Arabidopsis using an RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). Reverse transcription was performed to synthesize the first strand cDNA with an AMV reverse transcriptase first strand cDNA synthesis kit (Life Sciences, St. Petersburg, FL). RT-PCR was performed using an RT-PCR high-plus-kit (Toyobo, Osaka, Japan) for amplification of the AtCnfU-V, PsaA, PsaB, PsaC, PsaD, and EF1α (elongation factor 1α) cDNAs (CITATION). Plasmids used for in vitro translation were constructed as follows: plasmid pTYC13 encoding AtCnfU-V precursor protein was constructed by inserting the full-length of AtCnfU-V cDNA into the EcoRI-HindIII site of pGEM-4Z (Promega, Madison, WI), and plasmid pGEM/pAtCnfU-IVb encoding the AtCnfU-IVb precursor protein was constructed by inserting a KpnI-SphI fragment of cDNA, provided by ABRC, into the KpnI-SphI site of pGEM-4Z. To overexpress mature AtCnfU-IVb in E. coli, pTYC21 was constructed by inserting the AtCnfU-IVb cDNA fragment corresponding to amino acid residues 84 to 231 into the NcoI-XhoI site of pET-21d (Novagen, Madison, WI). To overexpress AtCnfU-IVa in E. coli, pTYC24 was constructed by inserting the AtCnfU-IVa cDNA fragment corresponding to amino acid residues 82 to 236 into the NdeI-XhoI site of pET-21d. To overexpress AtCnfU-V without the predicted transit peptide, pTYC22 was constructed by inserting the AtCnfU-V cDNA fragment corresponding to amino acid residues 83 to 235 into the NcoI-XhoI site of pET-21d. The plasmid used in the in vitro translation of maize mature Fd I was constructed as described previously (CITATION). Whole plant extracts were prepared from Arabidopsis plants as described previously (CITATION). Preparation of chloroplasts was performed as described previously (CITATION). For the import study, chloroplasts were isolated from 12- to 14-d-old P. sativum leaves as described (CITATION). Import reactions contained the isolated chloroplasts (50 μg chlorophyll) in a 200-μL reaction mixture. Determination of chlorophyll content was performed as described previously (CITATION). The import assay was performed essentially as described previously (CITATION). The TNT coupled reticulocyte lysate system (Promega) was used for the in vitro translation with PRO-Mix l-[35S]-Met/Cys (Amersham Biosciences, Buckinghamshire, UK). The import buffer contained 5 mM DTT, 5 mM MgCl2, 5 mM Met, 5 mM Cys, and 5 mM ATP in HS buffer (50 mM Hepes-KOH, pH 7.8, and 330 mM sorbitol). The mixture was incubated at 25°C for 30 min under continuous illumination. At the end of the import reaction, chloroplasts were reisolated and divided into two aliquots, one of which was resuspended in 100 μL of 10 mM Hepes-KOH, pH 7.5. The hypotonically ruptured chloroplasts were centrifuged at 14,000 rpm for 10 min. The supernatants were removed as the stromal fractions and the membrane pellets were washed twice with the same buffer. Finally, all fractions were analyzed by SDS-PAGE followed by fluorography. Plasmids pTYC21 and pTYC22 were introduced into E. coli strain BL21 (DE3) (Novagen). Plasmid-bearing cells were initially grown aerobically at 37°C on L medium (CITATION) containing 150 μg/mL of ampicillin. Expression of recombinant proteins was then induced by the addition of 0.2 mM isopropylthio-β-galactoside at 20°C for 15 h. Cells were broken by sonication in buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 100 mM KCl, and 1 mM DTT. After removal of membranes by centrifugation, the supernatants were used to purify AtCnfU-V and AtCnfU-IVb. They were first applied to a DE52 column (Whatman, Clifton, NJ) from which eluted fractions were collected and precipitated with 40 to 70% saturated ammonium sulfate. The precipitates were resuspended and applied to a HiPrep butyl FF chromatography column (Amersham Biosciences). Eluted protein fractions also were desalted through a HiPrep desalting column (Amersham Biosciences) and further purified over HiPrep Q XL and HiPrep Sephacryl S-100 HR columns (Amersham Biosciences). Finally, fractions containing purified proteins were concentrated with Centriprep YM-30 spin columns (Millipore, Bedford, MA) and stored at −80°C until use. Antibodies against the purified AtCnfU-IVb or AtCnfU-V were raised in rabbits and affinity purified using an antigen-bound HiTrap NHS-activated column (Amersham Biosciences). Protein concentrations were determined using the Bradford method (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA) with BSA (Sigma) as a standard. Chloroplasts isolated from 18-d-old Arabidopsis plants as described above were stored at −80°C as pellets until use. The stromal extracts were prepared by hypotonic treatment of the chloroplasts with 10 mM Hepes-KOH, pH7.5 (at a concentration of 2 mg chlorophyll/mL), for 30 min on ice followed by centrifugation at 10,000g for 15 min at 4°C. [3H]-labeled ferredoxin (maize Fd I), which was synthesized in vitro using TNT coupled reticulocyte lysate systems (Promega), was incubated with the stromal extracts (obtained from 50 μg chlorophyll of chloroplasts) for 0 to 60 min at 25°C in 50 μL of 50 mM Hepes-KOH, pH 7.5, and 50 mM KCl with or without 1 mM dithionite. For assay using chemical amount of apo-ferredoxin as a substrate, apo-ferredoxin was prepared by boiling purified Fd I in the presence of 100 mM DTT and 100 mM EDTA and further purified by gel filtration column chromatography using a fast-desalting column (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala, Sweden) that had been equilibrated with 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH7.5, 50 mM KCl, and 1 mM DTT. Recombinant AtCnfU-V (0 to 20 μg) also was used in the reaction with 1 mM DTT instead of the stromal extacts. All solutions used in the assay were degassed thoroughly before use. Holo-ferredoxin formation was assessed using nondenaturing PAGE (CITATION) followed by Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining or by fluorography. Purified AtCnfU-V (25 μg) dissolved in a buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM KCl, and 5 mM DTT were further treated either with 10 mM EDTA or 1 mM DTT on ice for 1 h. After treatment, samples were loaded onto Superdex 75 columns (Amersham Biosciences) and eluted with the same buffer. Protein elution was monitored by simultaneous absorbance measurements at 280, 330, and 420 nm (Figure 10A). Twelve 100-μL fractions were collected and analyzed by protein gel blotting as described above (Figure 10B). To perform the subsequent ferredoxin iron-sulfur cluster reconstitution assay, purified AtCnfU-V (200 μg) dissolved in a buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM KCl, and 1 mM DTT was further treated with or without 10 mM dithionite on ice briefly and subjected to gel filtration column chromatography as above. Each 20-μL fraction obtained after gel filtration was incubated with 20 μg apo-ferredoxin for 60 min at 25°C and analyzed as described above. Rates of oxygen evolution were measured with a leaf disc oxygen-electrode system (Hansatech, Kings Lynn, UK) at a saturating concentration of CO2 (∼10%) at 25°C. In vivo chlorophyll fluorescence of detached leaves was excited and detected with a pulse amplitude modulated fluorometer (PAM101/102/103; Walz, Effeltrich, Germany). A modulated nonactinic measuring beam was used to measure fluorescence. Pulses (1 s) of white light (4000 μmol/m2/s) spaced every 30 s were used to determine the maximum fluorescence (Fm) and the ratio (Fm-Fo)/Fm = Fv/Fm. Actinic light with an intensity of 520 μmol/m2/s was used to drive photosynthesis. The redox state of P700 was monitored by absorbance changes at 820 nm using an ED-P700 detector unit attached to the pulse amplitude modulated fluorometer. The oxidation of P700 was induced by illumination with a 2-min period of far-red light (30 W/m2) to detached leaves (24 mm2). Blue native gel electrophoresis was performed as described (CITATION; CITATION). Chloroplast proteins (67 μg) were solubilized with 0.5% (w/v) n-dodecy-β-d-maltoside and separated by 5 to 14% blue native gel electrophoresis. Ferritin (880 kD and 440 kD), catalase (230 kD), and BSA (132 kD and 66 kD) were used as molecular mass marker proteins.
