!~ABS~! The TOUSLED (TSL)-like nuclear protein kinase family is highly conserved in plants and animals. tsl loss of function mutations cause pleiotropic defects in both leaf and flower development, and growth and initiation of floral organ primordia is abnormal, suggesting that basic cellular processes are affected. TSL is more highly expressed in exponentially growing Arabidopsis culture cells than in stationary, nondividing cells. While its expression remains constant throughout the cell cycle in dividing cells, TSL kinase activity is higher in enriched late G2/M-phase and G1-phase populations of Arabidopsis suspension culture cells compared to those in S-phase. tsl mutants also display an aberrant pattern and increased expression levels of the mitotic cyclin gene CycB1;1, suggesting that TSL represses CycB1;1 expression at certain times during development or that cells are delayed in mitosis. TSL interacts with and phosphorylates one of two Arabidopsis homologs of the nucleosome assembly/silencing protein Asf1 and histone H3, as in humans, and a novel plant SANT/myb-domain protein, TKI1, suggesting that TSL plays a role in chromatin metabolism.
!~RES~! To follow expression, protein levels, and kinase activity, we first prepared a TSL-specific antisera. Anti-peptide antibody to the C-terminal TSL peptide (C)YNQEDRPDVLTMAQDPYLAYS was generated and affinity purified as described in “Materials and Methods”. The peptide sequence is not found in kinases other than TLK family members (BLAST analysis, data not shown). The antibody specifically recognizes a GST-TSL fusion protein purified from yeast (Fig. 1A ), and detects a single 80-kD protein in Arabidopsis flower protein extracts by western-blot analysis (Fig. 1B). A band at the same Mr is not detected in extracts from tsl-1 flowers (Fig. 1B, lane 2), where no TSL protein is expected due to the T-DNA insertion in the gene, which inactivates gene expression. Equal amounts of protein extract were loaded in each lane, as determined by Coomassie Blue staining (data not shown). TSL protein is detected in tsl-2 mutants, as expected, where a single point mutation in the TSL gene affects only one amino acid in the predicted protein. [[FIGURE]] To determine if TSL is preferentially expressed in dividing cells, Arabidopsis suspension culture cells were harvested from cultures allowed to progress to stationary phase (10 d after subculture) and from cultures in the exponential phase of growth (3 d after subculture) and assessed for TSL expression. TSL mRNA levels are slightly higher when the cells are rapidly dividing, and TSL protein is present in higher steady-state levels in exponentially growing cells than in stationary cells arrested in G0/G1 (Fig. 1C). We next asked if the cell cycle expression of TSL is regulated in dividing cells. Arabidopsis suspension culture cells were synchronized with an aphidicolin block and release protocol which arrests cells in early S-phase, followed by synchronous progression through the cell cycle after release from the drug block (for review, see CITATION). Aliquots of cells were harvested at time points after the release. The culture contains cells in S-phase from time point 0 through hour 4, as shown by the northern blot detecting histone H4 mRNA levels, as expected (Fig. 2A ). As cells progress out of S-phase during hours 6 to 8, the histone H4 mRNA levels had declined. Mitotic index was also determined by DNA staining and chromosome visualization, and mitotic cells were observed in samples from time points between 12 and 16 h, with a peak at 13 h (Fig. 2B). The percentage of cells in mitosis is underestimated with this method, as only the stages with visibly highly condensed chromosomes are counted; in fact, these numbers agree well with other published reports of synchronization in Arabidopsis cells that showed peak levels of 12% mitotic index (CITATION; CITATION). In contrast to histone H4 expression, TSL mRNA levels remain constant at all time points in the synchronized culture. Western-blot analysis on extracts across the time course with the TSL peptide antibody reveals that TSL protein is also present at fairly constant levels (Fig. 2C). [[FIGURE]] To assess when TSL is active across the cell cycle, we analyzed the protein kinase activity of TSL in immunoprecipitates from aphidicolin-treated and released cultures against the substrate myelin basic protein (MBP). Unfortunately, a highly active contaminating protein kinase showed high background activity in the preimmune controls. To avoid this contaminating kinase, in-gel kinase assays on immunoprecipitates were performed with gels containing MBP incorporated into the gel followed by addition of [32P-γ]ATP. We first tested purified TSL fusion proteins in the assay (Fig. 3A ) and found that GST-TSL showed activity, whereas GST-K438E (contains a single point mutation that converts Lys-438 to Glu and inactivates kinase activity; Fig. 3A, lane 4) and GST alone (data not shown) did not. Also, we could detect TSL activity immunoprecipitated from exponentially growing cells (not shown). The assay was then performed on immunoprecipitates of extracts from aphidicolin-synchronized Arabidopsis suspension culture cells enriched in S-phase, G2/M-phase, and G1-phase (Fig. 3B). TSL could be identified specifically in this assay by its presence at 80 kD and absence in the nonrelated antibody control lanes. TSL is active in all the fractions but shows the highest level of activity in the enriched G2/M-phase sample, and more activity in the G1-enriched sample compared to the S-phase sample (Fig. 3B). [[FIGURE]] tsl mutants show abnormalities in meristem development (CITATION). To assess potential cell cycle effects, the mitotic marker gene, CDG (CITATION), was introduced into tsl-2 mutants. This marker gene consists of the promoter and 5′ transcribed sequences from the Arabidopsis cyclin B gene CycB1;1 (CITATION) cloned in frame with a uidA gene, which results in the production of a cyclin destruction box (CDB)-β-glucuronidase (GUS) fusion protein, CDG. The CDG marker gene allows for the visualization of cells in late G2 and mitosis, as the CycB1;1 promoter is activated in G2 just prior to mitosis, and the CDG enzyme that is synthesized is specifically degraded at the end of M via the CDB (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, when plants carrying the marker gene are stained for GUS activity, only the cells in late G2 and M should stain. Inflorescences from tsl-2 plants carrying CDG were stained for GUS activity and compared to wild-type siblings carrying CDG (Fig. 4A ). In wild type, the GUS activity was confined to a small population of cells in the youngest floral meristems where cell divisions are occurring, as expected (Fig. 4A). As the floral meristems develop and cells stop dividing, expression of the marker gene is lost, with the last expression seen in approximately stage 10 gynoecium on the carpel walls and ovule primordia. In contrast, tsl-2 meristems show greatly increased levels of GUS activity and the staining persists in older flowers, even after organ growth is near completion (Fig. 4A). Eventually, staining is lost in the outer organs. Cauline leaves showed only slightly increased GUS staining in mutant inflorescences compared to wild-type (not shown). This suggests that either more cells in G2 or M are present in the developing tsl flowers, or that deregulation of CycB1;1 expression or turnover is occurring. [[FIGURE]] To test if the increased expression of the CDG marker gene in tsl floral meristems reflects ectopic expression of the endogenous CycB1;1 promoter, we performed northern-blot analysis on mRNA from wild-type and tsl-1 mutant flowers using a CycB1;1 cDNA as a probe (Fig. 5B ). 18S rRNA levels were monitored to control for loading consistency (Fig. 4B). In comparing the level of transcripts in RNA isolated from wild-type and tsl flowers, a higher steady-state level of CycB1;1 mRNA is present in tsl flowers than in flowers of wild-type siblings. CycB1;1 mRNA levels were also slightly higher in tsl leaves than in wild-type (data not shown). Expression of a second cyclin B gene, CycB1;2, was also tested, as it is much more highly expressed in flowers than CycB1;1 (CITATION), and in contrast, the levels of CycB1;2 mRNA are comparable in the two samples (data not shown). Thus, CycB1;1 expression appears to be upregulated in tsl mutants. CycB1;1 protein levels could not be assessed, as an antibody that gave consistent results could not be obtained. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate TSL function, a two-hybrid screen in yeast was performed to identify proteins that interact with TSL (CITATION). A TSL bait clone was constructed that encodes a near full-length TSL protein (amino acids 73-688) as a fusion protein with the DNA binding domain (DBD) of Gal4. The clone contains a centromere-based (CEN) origin of replication (CITATION) that was found to overcome the toxic effects of TSL expression from a 2-μ based plasmid vector in yeast (data not shown). As described previously, full-length TSL fused to Gal4-DBD weakly activates the reporter gene alone, and thus the N-terminal deletion was used instead. The yeast strain YD116 was transformed with the TSL bait vector pCD-NQ-TSL, followed by a cDNA library in a Gal4-activation domain (ACT) plasmid, and clones encoding proteins that interact with TSL were selected for by growth on medium lacking Trp, Leu, and Ura. A total of 1 × 106 transformants were screened and putative positives were retested with the bait vector in a different strain, Y153, for activation of a UASGal4::lacZ reporter gene. A number of clones were eliminated as false positives, and several were able to activate transcription alone (data not shown) and also were eliminated. One clone, however, showed strong reporter gene activation that was completely dependent on the presence of the TSL bait vector (Fig. 5). Furthermore, it was shown that the clone, pC-TKI1 (TSL-kinase interacting protein), did not show activation when cotransformed with other DBD-fusion protein vectors such as lamin (data not shown). So, it appears that the TKI1 gene encodes a polypeptide that specifically interacts with TSL. DNA sequence analysis of the TKI1 cDNA insert revealed that the clone isolated in the two-hybrid screen is not a full-length cDNA and encodes the C-terminal region of the TKI1 polypeptide. PCR on a cDNA library was used to complete the full-length coding region (GenBank accession no. AF530160) corresponding to locus At2g36960, which differed only slightly from the predicted open reading frame (GenBank accession no. AC006922) and a complete cDNA sequence already present in the database (GenBank accession no. AY064068). The TKI1 protein sequence encoded by the cDNA is 741 amino acids (predicted Mr = 82 kD) in length. TKI1 contains several regions that share homology with other proteins; these were identified by BLAST analysis (CITATION) on the GenBank database and by Reverse Position Specific BLAST analysis on the Conserved Domain Database (CITATION). The first region is a single SANT/myb domain shared with the human oncogene Myb and other related proteins (Fig. 6A ; CITATION). The proteins most homologous to TKI1 include the putative Arabidopsis transcription factors LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL (LHY) and CIRCADIAN CLOCK ASSOCIATED 1 (CCA1), but only the SANT domain is shared. These two factors play a role in circadian rhythm control (CITATION; CITATION). LHY, CCA1, and TKI1 have only one myb repeat (the SANT/myb domain) and thus are not members of the large class of plant R2R3 myb domain proteins, which each have two myb domains (CITATION). TKI1 also shares homology with the Polycomb-group D. melanogaster protein cramped (crm; GenBank accession no. Y13674; CITATION) in its SANT domain. The SANT domain is found in a number of proteins that are part of complexes that regulate transcription (CITATION, and see “Discussion and Conclusion”). We found that when swapped into the Gal4-DBD plasmid, the C terminus of TKI1 (amino acids 546-741), lacking the SANT/myb domain, acts as a strong transcriptional activator in yeast (Fig. 7 ). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Several proteins with weaker homology to other regions in TKI1 were found, including a predicted protein on chromosome 4 (At4g39380; GenBank accession no. NM_120098; Fig. 6B), the human protein mitofilin (not shown; GenBank accession no. NM_006839; CITATION), and a predicted protein on chromosome 1 (At1g78650; GenBank accession no. NM_106512; not shown). The importance of these similarities is unknown. TKI1 is expressed in wild-type Arabidopsis flowers, roots, and leaves (Fig. 6C), and a transcript of 3.2 kb is detected. The interaction of TKI1 and TSL was investigated further using deletion and mutant versions of TSL (Fig. 5). TSL interacts strongly with both the original C-terminal portion of TKI (amino acids 546-741) and the full-length TKI protein in filter lift assays (Fig. 5). In quantitative assays (Fig. 7), TSL interacts approximately fourfold more strongly with the full-length protein. Furthermore, TKI1 interacts only with active kinase forms of TSL and does not bind inactive mutants such as an N-terminal deletion that removes the coiled-coil domain (ΔN360) or a point mutation (K438E) that changes a single amino acid in TSL and inactivates the ATP-binding site in the catalytic domain (Figs. 5 and 7). The K438E mutant is expressed in normal levels in the yeast cell, as has been shown previously by a strong interaction with both itself and wild-type TSL in two-hybrid assays (CITATION). CITATION described the interaction of human TLK1 and TLK2 with two human homologs of the yeast silencing factor Asf1 and their ability to phosphorylate the Asf1-like proteins. Also, TLK activity paralleled Asf1 phosphorylation status in synchronized human cells. Two highly similar homologs of Asf1 are present in the Arabidopsis genome: Asf1a/SGA2 and Asf1b/SGA1 (locus numbers At1g66740 and At5g38110, respectively, and see http://chromdb.biosci.arizona.edu). We tested the latter for interaction with TSL in the two-hybrid system, because a cDNA database entry confirmed its validity as an expressed locus. The coding region of Asf1b/SGA1 was cloned into a two-hybrid vector, creating a fusion protein of Asf1b/SGA1 with the Gal4-DBD (pCD1-Asf1b); this fusion did not show autoactivation (Fig. 7). pCD1-Asf1b was used for two hybrid interaction tests with different forms of TSL cloned as fusion proteins with the Gal4 ACT. o-Nitrophenyl β-d-galactopyranoside (ONPG) assays on cell extracts were used to quantify the interactions observed in colonies stained for β-galactosidase activity (Fig. 7, and data not shown). Asf1b/SGA1 interacted strongly with full-length TSL, and even more strongly with the N terminus of TSL alone (amino acids 1-406), including a clone that was missing the coiled-coil domain (Fig. 7). N-terminal deletions of TSL lacking the first 73, 171, and 360 showed little to no binding activity, as did the active site mutant K438E (Fig. 7). These results suggest that Asf1b/SGA1 binds to the most N-terminal portion of the TSL protein, which may explain why it was not found in the library screen. The screen used an N-terminal deletion of TSL, lacking the putative Asf1b/SGA1 binding site. Thus, TSL binding to TKI1 and Asf1b/SGA1 appears to be dependent on different domains; Asf1b/SGA1 binds in the most N-terminal domain of TSL whereas TKI1 may bind to the active catalytic C-terminal domain. To test if TKI1 and Asf1b/SGA1 are potential TSL substrates, in vitro kinase assays were performed using purified GST-TSL and purified His-tagged TKI1 and Asf1b fusion proteins (Fig. 8 ). Both Asf1b and the C terminus of TKI1 acted as efficient substrates of TSL in vitro, in contrast to purified His-GFP as a control (Fig. 8A, lanes 1–4). The C-TKI1 lane shows not only phosphorylation of the full C-terminal TKI1 protein but also a number of degradation products as well (Fig. 8A, lane 3). A kinase dead mutant of TSL showed no activity (Fig. 8A, lanes 5–8). All of the fusion proteins could be detected by western-blot analysis (Fig. 8B), except full-length TKI1 which did not give a high yield of fusion protein and thus is not shown. GST-TSL also phosphorylated histone H3 in vitro (Fig. 8C). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis suspension culture cells were grown at 22°C to 27°C, shaken at 120 rpm in the dark in Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with Gamborg's B5 vitamins (Sigma, St. Louis), kinetin (1 μg/mL), and α-naphthaleneacetic acid (1 μg/mL), and subcultured weekly. For cell cycle synchronization, 5 μg/mL of aphidicolin (Sigma) was added to a freshly diluted (1:5) stationary culture of Arabidopsis suspension culture cells, and cells were incubated with shaking for 24 h to block the cells in S-phase. Cells were then washed by pouring through a mesh screen (150 μm), followed by three washing steps, all with sterile solutions. First, cells were washed with 3% sucrose (1 L); second with 1 L Murashige and Skoog medium; and finally with 500 mL Murashige and Skoog medium containing auxin and cytokinin as above. Cells were then suspended in 100 mL medium, still on the screen, and shaken gently but continuously 3 to 5 times for 2 min each. After resuspension in fresh medium, a t = 0 sample was removed, and cells were grown at 24°C with shaking in the dark. Aliquots of 5 to 10 mL were removed at time points following release, and cells were harvested by settling on ice. The medium was removed, and cells were quick-frozen in liquid nitrogen. Separate aliquots of cells were fixed with ethanol:acetic acid (3:1, v/v) and stained with 5 μm 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (Sigma). Mitotic index was determined by counting the proportion of cells in late prophase to telophase compared to cells in interphase observed by UV fluorescence on a Zeiss Axiophot microscope (Zeiss, Jena, Germany). For each sample, >300 cells were counted. Some samples were stained with propidium iodide (50 μg/mL) or Sytox (0.5 μm, Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) and observed by confocal fluorescence microscopy. RNA was purified from pelleted cells or quick-frozen (liquid nitrogen) ground tissue with Trizol, according to the manufacturer's protocol (Life Technologies, Rockville, MD). Total protein extracts were obtained by pelleting cells and resuspending in Lysis250 plus protease inhibitors (50 mm Tris, pH 7.4, 250 mm sodium chloride, 5 mm EDTA, 0.1% IGEPAL CA 630 [Nonidet P-40 substitute; Sigma], 50 mm sodium fluoride) supplemented with phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (100 μg/mL), aprotinin (2 μg/mL), leupeptin (2 μg/mL), pepstatin A (1 μg/mL), dithiothreitol (1 mm), and benzamidine (1 mm) and after freeze-thaw, vortexing with glass beads to solubilize the cells. After centrifugation, soluble protein was quantitated by A280 measurement and by running aliquots on SDS-PAGE gels and staining with Coomassie Blue R-250. Flower extracts were obtained by grinding in liquid nitrogen and solubilizing in Laemmli sample buffer plus 6 m urea. Anti-TSL antibody was obtained as follows. The peptide (C)YNQEDRPDVLTMAQDPYLAYS was synthesized, anti-peptide antisera was generated in rabbits, and peptide-specific antibody was affinity purified on peptide-conjugated support by Zymed Laboratories (South San Francisco, CA). Western-blot analysis was performed by standard techniques after transfer of SDS-PAGE gels to Immobilon-P membranes (Millipore, Bedford, MA). Blots were incubated overnight with anti-TSL affinity-purified anti-peptide antisera (12 μg IgG) or anti-His-horseradish peroxidase mouse monoclonal IgG (sc-8036, Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA; 1:1000) or anti-GST (sc-459, Santa Cruz Biotechnology; 1:1000) rabbit polyclonal antisera in washing buffer (50 mm Tris, pH 7.5, 150 mm sodium chloride, nonfat dry milk, and 0.05% Tween 20), washed three times for 30 min with washing buffer, incubated for 2 h at room temperature with 1:1000 secondary antibody (goat anti-rabbit IgG conjugated to horseradish peroxidase; Zymed or peroxidase-labeled anti-mouse IgG; Vector Laboratories, Burlingame, CA), washed three times for 30 min each with washing buffer, and rinsed with 50 mm Tris, pH 7.5, 150 mm sodium chloride. Presence of the secondary antibody was detected by chemiluminescence by incubation of blots with SuperSignal (Pierce, Rockford, IL) followed by autoradiography. Suspension culture cells were lysed by freezing in liquid nitrogen, grinding on dry ice, followed by vortexing in Lysis250 plus protease inhibitors and glass beads. After centrifugation, total soluble protein extract was incubated with affinity-purified antibody (12 μg immune or preimmune) for 2 h at 4°C with shaking. Affi-Prep Protein A Matrix (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA) was added (30-μL beads), incubated for 30 min at 4°C, and beads were washed three times in extraction buffer. For SDS-PAGE, samples were boiled in Laemmli sample buffer. In-gel kinase assays were performed as described in CITATION. Briefly, SDS-PAGE gels were formed containing MBP (Life Technologies) at 0.25 mg/mL in the resolving gel. After electrophoresis, SDS was removed, proteins were renatured, and the gel was incubated in [32P-γ]ATP (NEN, Boston; 3,000 Ci/mmol). Following five washes in 5% (w/v) trichloroacetic acid/1% (w/v) sodium pyrophosphate, the gel was dried and autoradiography was performed. GST-fusion proteins were purified as described from yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) after induction with galactose (CITATION). His-tagged fusion proteins were purified from IPTG-induced Escherichia coli strain BL21DE3plysS using Talon resin (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA). Cells were sonicated in extraction buffer (50 mm HEPES, pH 7.0, 250 mm NaCl plus protease inhibitors), centrifuged 20 min at 12,000g to remove insoluble protein, incubated with resin, washed in extraction buffer, and His-tagged proteins were eluted in 150 mm imidazole. Kinase assays are as described with [32P-γ]ATP (NEN, 3,000 Ci/mmol; CITATION). Purified histone H3 was obtained from Roche Diagnostics (Indianapolis). Northern-blot analysis was performed using standard techniques. RNA samples were run on formaldehyde-agarose gels, blotted on Hybond N membranes (Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK), and hybridized with probe labeled with [32P-α]dCTP (ICN Biomedicals, Costa Mesa, CA; 3,000 Ci/mmol) by random priming using Prime-it II kit (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) and purified on NucTrap columns (Stratagene). After high stringency washing, blots were subjected to autoradiography. 18S rRNA and histone H4 were detected as described by CITATION and CITATION, respectively. TSL was detected with a full-length cDNA probe, and TKI1 was detected with the insert from the two-hybrid clone, pC-TKI1 (see below). CycB1;1 coding sequence was synthesized by PCR using the oligonucleotides 5′-GCGGATCCATGGTGACTTCTCGTTCGATTG-3′ and 5′-GTCCATGGCAGATTCAGTTCCGGTCAAC-3′ on the two-hybrid ACT library (see below), digested with BamHI and partially with NcoI, and subcloned into a pBluescript-based vector which was sequenced for verification. An NcoI fragment was used as a probe which contained the full coding sequence. tsl-1 and tsl-2 mutants are as described (CITATION) and are in the Wassilewskija and Columbia ecotype, respectively. The CDG marker gene in Columbia ecotype was crossed into the tsl-2 background. Inflorescences from F2 individuals were stained for GUS activity using X-glucuronic acid as described by CITATION overnight at 37°C, and destained in 70% ethanol. Oligonucleotides 5′-CGGCATATGAGCTCTATCAATATCACT-3′ and 5′-CGCGGATCCTCATGTCTCCTGGAGATT-3′ were used to clone the coding sequence of Asf1b/SGA1 (locus At5g38110) and add an NdeI site and BamHI site by PCR on a cDNA two-hybrid library template (see below), followed by subcloning into pCD.1 (CITATION) as a 0.65-kb NdeI-BamHI fragment to form pCD1-Asf1b, which encodes a fusion protein of the DBD of Gal4 with Asf1b/SGA1. The sequence was identical to that of the full-length cDNA sequence (GenBank accession no. AY072420). Some TSL two-hybrid and GST-fusion protein clones and the K438E mutation are as described (Roe et al., 1997). To generate the TSL bait vector, the fragment in pAS-ΔN73-TSL (CITATION) was subcloned into the CEN plasmid pCD.1 (CITATION) to obtain the plasmid pCD-NQ-TSL which encodes amino acids 73-688 of TSL as a fusion protein with Gal4-DBD. Details of this cloning and other two-hybrid clones are available on request. pACTII (CITATION) was used for subcloning to obtain ACT plasmids. pC-TKI1 was isolated as a two-hybrid library plasmid in the vector pGAD424 (CITATION), which encoded amino acids 546-741 of TKI1. Full-length TKI1 cDNA was assembled by PCR amplification of the N-terminal coding sequences using the two-hybrid cDNA library followed by subcloning into pC-TKI1 (details available on request). The full-length TKI1 cDNA was then sequenced on both strands (GenBank accession no. AF530160). The TKI C-terminal coding region of pC-TKI and the coding regions of Asf1b and GFP were subcloned into pRSET (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) to generate His-tagged fusion protein clones; details are available on request. The TSL bait plasmid pCD-NQ-TSL was transformed into YD116 cells (CITATION; selected on Trp− plates). A cDNA library in the pGAD424 vector constructed using mRNA from aerial parts of Arabidopsis including flowers (gift of Vitaly Citovsky; CITATION) was introduced into cells from cultures of a bait-containing transformant and plated on selective Trp− Leu− Ura− plates. Colonies that grew were retested by isolation of the library plasmid, retransformation of Y153 cells (CITATION) with and without the TSL bait vector, followed by staining of colony lifts for β-galactosidase activity as described (CITATION). To quantitate two-hybrid interactions, ONPG assays were performed on transformants grown in liquid culture as described (CITATION; Clontech, Yeast Protocols Handbook), and the data are reported in Miller units. Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession number AF530160.
