!~ABS~! Clathrin-mediated endocytosis is a well-studied uptake mechanism for nutrients and signalling receptors in mammalian cells that depends on the coordinated interaction of coat proteins and endocytic network proteins to perform the internalization. In this process AP180 promotes the assembly of clathrin triskelia into coated membrane patches at the plasma membrane, while α-adaptin interacts with various network proteins that are in turn required for the budding of the coated pits. The process of clathrin-mediated endocytosis in plants has not been dissected at the molecular level, nor have the members of an analogous uptake machinery been functionally described. In this respect, we have investigated the AP180 and α-adaptin orthologs from Arabidopsis thaliana: At-AP180 and At-αC-Ad. Both plant proteins display the same structural features as their mammalian counterparts and fulfill the same basic functions. To identify their interacting partners, the ear region of At-αC-Ad and the C-terminal region of At-AP180 were used as fusion proteins in pull-down experiments and plasmon-resonance measurements. At-αC-Ad binds several mammalian endocytic proteins, and its interaction with At-AP180 requires the DPF motif. At-AP180 functions as a clathrin assembly protein that promotes the formation of cages with an almost uniform size distribution. Deletion of the single DLL motif abolished the assembly activity of At-AP180 almost completely, but did not affect its binding to triskelia, suggesting the existence of additional binding determinants.
!~RES~! A database search of the Arabidopsis genome has revealed two genes coding for α-(At5g22770, NM_122183) and αC-adaptin (At5g22780, NM_122184) homologs, which share a 98.5% identity at the amino acid level. Using RT-PCR, we have isolated the full-length αC-adaptin clone (At-αC-Ad) which codes for a gene product of 1013 amino acids with a predicted relative molecular mass (Mr) of 112.29×103. The mammalian and plant orthologs not only share the same tripartite organization, but also display a 72.6% overall similarity at the amino acid level (Fig. 1A). Compared with the mouse αC ear region (CITATION), modeling of the complete C-terminal domain of At-αC-Ad (residues 718S-1013L) shows the same bilobal structure comprising the N-terminal sandwich domain (718S-855K), and the extreme C-terminal platform subdomain (856F-973L) (Fig. 1B,C).   [[FIGURE]] Sequence analysis of the At-αC-Ad ear region revealed further that the critical residues within its C-terminal platform domain required for the DPF/W-motif (867F-937R) and for the overlapping FXDXF-motif binding (867F-949R), as well as the residues in the N-terminal sandwich domain required for the specific DPW-motif binding (749G-813Q), are almost totally conserved (Fig. 1C,D) (CITATION). While the DPF/W and DPW binding sites each contain one homologous exchange, the FXDXF-binding site contains three exchanges, of which two are homologous (Fig. 1C,D). In particular, those residues within the DPF/W-motif, which have been shown to be absolutely crucial for network-protein interactions (mouse 837F, 905R, 840W) (CITATION), are totally conserved within the plant αC-adaptin sequence (868F, 937R, 871W). As the binding sites for the three consensus motifs are located within the two C-terminal subdomains, two GST constructs of At-αC-Ad comprising these regions were created (Fig. 1A). Both constructs lack the trunk portion but comprise the complete hinge region. The one construct containing in addition the full ear region (residues 536K-1013L) is named GST-At-αC-h-ear, whereas the second construct that lacks the extreme C-terminal 255 amino acids and therefore the two subdomains but comprises the residues 536K-759Q is thus named GST-At-αC-hδear. This latter construct was used to prove that the same subdomains in plant αC-adaptin were also required for network-protein binding (control) and also to reveal putative binding sites that might be located within the hinge domain. The GST-fusion proteins were purified either as a 77 kDa (GST-At-αC-h-ear) or as a 50 kDa (GST-At-αC-hδear) protein as shown in the Coomassie-stained gel (Fig. 1E). To show the conserved function of the C-terminal ear region of plant αC-adaptin, the two constructs were used in pull-down experiments together with pig brain cytosol, which served as a source of components of the mammalian endocytic clathrin machinery. After incubation, the protein composition of the pellets and corresponding supernatants were analyzed on immunoblots using the respective antibodies. The binding of the mammalian network proteins were observed exclusively in the presence of the full-length ear region from Arabidopsis αC-adaptin but neither when its truncated version lacking both subdomains were used nor when GST alone were used (Fig. 2). Although binding of eps15 to the ear region of plant αC-adaptin is complete, AP180 and amphiphysin bind to a lesser degree and dynamin I gave by far the faintest signal. Surprisingly, mammalian epsin did not bind at all. However, these findings indicate that the C-terminal 265 residues comprising the two subdomains of plant αC-adaptin are also required for network-protein binding, showing that plant αC-adaptin, like its mammalian counterpart, can generally function as a binding partner for cytosolic network proteins.   [[FIGURE]] From the three best binding partners of At-αC-ad, we decided to isolate the plant homolog of AP180, as mammalian AP180 also functions as a clathrin assembly protein. These two features, in addition to its lipid binding capacity, qualify it to function as a tether in the early steps of CCV budding. Therefore, AP180 can be regarded as another key protein in the clathrin endocytosis machinery. A database search in the Arabidopsis genome revealed several candidates of ENTH-domain-containing proteins. Subsequent multiple sequence alignment with mammalian AP180 homologs showed further that the similarities were exclusively restricted to the ENTH-domains located within the N-terminal regions of all proteins compared. Unlike the ENTH-domain of epsin 1, which is also considered to be important for coat formation (CITATION), the ENTH-domain of AP180 is not able to tubulate liposomes in vitro, and is therefore sometimes referred to as an ANTH-domain, containing a lysine-rich signature motif (K/GA(T/I)(X6)(P/L/V) KXK(H/Y) (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, to verify its relationship with animal AP180s and to distinguish it from mammalian epsins we searched for a plant AP180 homolog that completely lacks the ENTH-signature motif of epsins (CITATION) but which instead contains the ANTH-signature motif of AP180 homologs. The ENTH domain of the Arabidopsis clone At1g05020 (NM_100381) contains the first part of the ANTH-motif (42KAT(X6)P) and probably also its second part, but only at a farther distance (67KKSH). Nevertheless, it reveals the highest similiarities to the ANTH domains of the AP180 homologs CALM (71%), AP180 (63%), LAP (61%) and UNC-11 (58%), but only a lower degree of similarity to mammalian epsins of around 55% (data not shown). Like other non-neuronal AP180 homologs, the plant clone investigated contains only a low number of consensus interaction sites required for the interaction with clathrin (442DLL) and αC-adaptin (473DPW, 608DPF), as well as with other interacting network proteins (547NPF) (Fig. 3A). Therefore, it was considered a true AP180 homolog and was named At-AP180, because the neuronal AP180 protein is the eponymous homolog of this group.   [[FIGURE]] The At-AP180 full-length clone was also isolated using the RT-PCR approach as for αC-adaptin. At-AP180 consists of 653 amino acids with a predicted Mr of 72×103 and is thus of the same size as CALM (CITATION) (Fig. 3A). We took advantage of the fact that all four consensus binding motifs are located within the C-terminal residues 336S-653S in order to create a construct lacking the hydrophobic ENTH-domain (At-AP180δENTH) to improve the protein yield for interaction studies. This construct was expressed either as a histidine- or as a GST-fusion protein (H6/GST-At-AP180δENTH) (Fig. 3A,B). As expected, the expression levels of the truncated H6-At-AP180 construct exceeded the yield of the purified full-length histidine-fusion protein by at least tenfold (Fig. 3B). It was possible to improve the purification of H6-At-AP180δENTH even further by simply boiling the solution as described for mammalian AP180 (CITATION; CITATION). The successful application of this purification step already indicated that the motifs are also most probably harbored within a disordered region of At-AP180 that displays little or no conventional secondary structure. Furthermore, the full-length H6-At-AP180, as well as its truncated version H6-At-AP180δENTH, have higher apparent molecular masses in SDS gels (100 kDa and 55 kDa, respectively) than the primary sequence predicts (72 kDa and 34.5 kDa, respectively). To gain an insight into the existence of a clathrin machinery in plants at the molecular level, the interaction of the two key protein homologs, At-AP180 and At-αC-Ad, was investigated. Therefore, H6-At-AP180δENTH was incubated with the two GST constructs of the plant αC-adaptin ear region (Fig. 4A). Binding was exclusively observed in the presence of the complete ear region but not with the truncated version of At-αC-Ad nor when GST alone was added, showing that the binding site for plant AP180 is located within the extreme C-terminal ear region (760G-1013L) of plant αC-adaptin.   [[FIGURE]] As At-AP180 contains two α-ear consensus binding motifs, we investigated whether both motifs (473DPW and 608DPF) contributed equally to the binding. Therefore, we repeated the binding experiment with alanine exchange mutants of either motif (Fig. 4B). While alanine mutation of the DPF-motif reduced binding to the At-αC-Ad ear region significantly, the DPW/AAA mutation seemed not to affect the binding at all, displaying almost the same binding affinity as the wild-type At-AP180δENTH construct (Fig. 4A,B). Thus, we conclude that the 608DPF-motif of At-AP180 is obviously crucial for binding to the ear region of plant αC-adaptin, whereas the 473DPW-motif is not. Plasmon-resonance measurements were performed next to explore the degree of binding affinity between plant αC-adaptin and At-AP180. In these experiments, the GST-fusion proteins comprising either the complete ear region or the truncated version of At-αC-Ad were coupled to CM-5 chips via GST antibodies, while the H6-At-AP180δENTH construct was passed over the sensor surface to monitor the binding. With an equilibrium rate constant of 35 nM, which is lower than the controls GST (680 nM) and GST-αC-h-δ-ear (682 nM) by a factor of 19, the binding affinity between At-AP180δENTH and the At-αC-Ad ear construct is rather high (Fig. 5A). Lowering the amounts of the At-AP180 construct by a factor of four and eight, respectively, reduced binding to the full ear construct, indicating that it is concentration dependent (Fig. 5B). Taken together, the C-terminal region of At-AP180 binds via its 608DPF-motif to the C-terminal ear region of plant αC-adaptin.   [[FIGURE]] We next investigated whether At-AP180 also functions as a clathrin assembly protein. To this end, we tested first whether its C-terminal region comprising the single conserved 442DLL-clathrin assembly motif (CITATION) is able to bind to clathrin. Thus, the fusion-protein GST-At-AP180δENTH was used in a pull-down experiment with cytosolic clathrin isolated from suspension cultured Arabidopsis cells (Fig. 6). A complete shifting of CHC to the pellet fraction after centrifugation was observed exclusively in the presence of GST-At-AP180δENTH, but not in the control, attesting a specific interaction. To explore the role of the DLL-motif in regard to clathrin binding we mutated the motif into alanine residues and repeated the binding experiment. Binding of the DLL/AAA mutant occured to almost the same extent as was observed for the wild-type construct, indicating that At-AP180 clearly contains, in addition, clathrin binding motifs other than the consensus DLL-motif so far described. Nevertheless, these findings show unequivocally that the C-terminal region of At-AP180 functions in clathrin binding.   [[FIGURE]] An important function of mammalian AP180 and its non-neuronal counterpart CALM is their ability to assemble clathrin triskelia into cages (CITATION). As with other mammalian clathrin assembly proteins, AP180 is also thought to promote clathrin assembly by cross-linking triskelia via multivalent interactions between its repeated DLL-motifs and complementary binding sites in the clathrin terminal domain. As the single conserved 442DLL clathrin binding motif of At-AP180 is not essential for clathrin binding we were eager to determine whether At-AP180δENTH might also function as an assembly protein like its mammalian ortholog. To test this, we isolated coat proteins from pig brain CCV which were subjected to Superose 6 gelfiltration to separate the triskelia completely from endogenous AP180. We made sure that the triskelia were completely devoid of endogenous AP180 by screening the gelfiltration fractions with the respective antibody (Fig. 7A). Those fractions lacking endogenous AP180 were subsequently used in all reassembly experiments. To show their assembly activity, two plant AP180 constructs were used: H6-At-AP180δENTH, which was added in various stoichiometric amounts, and its DLL/AAA-mutated version (GST-At-AP180δENTH-DLL/AAA), which still contains clathrin binding activity. Clathrin alone served as a control for spontaneous self-assembly under these conditions. The distribution of clathrin between supernatant, containing soluble triskelia, and pellet, containing assembled cages, were observed in SDS-gels and immunoblots (Fig. 7B). The clathrin triskelia alone displayed only a low tendency of self-aggregation (Fig. 7B), but the addition of H6-At-AP180δENTH converted the triskelia into a fast sedimenting species. Half-molar amounts of H6-At-AP180δENTH were already sufficient to induce some assembly, which could be further increased by adding equimolar amounts of H6-At-AP180δENTH. With a threefold molar excess of the H6-At-AP180δENTH construct all of the clathrin ended up in the pellet. The same amount of H6-At-AP180δENTH when incubated alone remained in the supernatant indicating that its presence in the pellet is exclusively due to its specific CHC binding (Fig. 7B). The DLL/AAA mutant of At-AP180δENTH no longer contained assembly activity, which indicates that the single consensus DLL-motif of At-AP180 plays a crucial role in the assembly process. Furthermore, thorough investigation of the reassembly experiments by electron microscopy revealed that clathrin triskelia, which were assembled as a result of spontaneous self-aggregation of clathrin (Fig. 8A) or in the presence of the DLL/AAA mutant of At-AP180δENTH (Fig. 8C), were of negligible number compared with the high number of uniform-sized cages that assembled only in the presence of H6-At-AP180δENTH (Fig. 8B). Moreover, those cages assembled without the aid of the DLL-motif seem to be more irregular in shape and somewhat larger compared with those assembled in the presence of the DLL-motif (close-ups in Fig. 8A,B,C). Analysis of the distribution of the cage size assembled with the help of the DLL-motif revealed further that from a total of 131 counted cages, 122 (93%) were between 70 nm and 90 nm in diameter, thus displaying an almost uniform size distribution (Fig. 8D). From these data we conclude that the single conserved clathrin assembly motif of At-AP180 plays a crucial role during clathrin assembly, although its mutation has no effect on clathrin binding. Therefore, plant AP180 obviously contains clathrin binding motifs that do not correspond to the consensus motifs decribed so far from mammalian clathrin binding proteins.   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Cell suspension cultures of Arabidopsis thaliana (At-7) were obtained from the Max-Planck-Institute (Cologne, Germany) and grown in the dark under constant rotation (90 rpm) on a cell shaker and harvested 7 days after inoculation. Wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana var. Columbia was grown in the green-house with a cycle of 16 hours light and 8 hours in the dark. Brains from adult pigs were obtained from a local slaughterhouse and frozen immediately after removal of the meninges. For the protein structure homology modeling the automated Swissmodel server with the mouse PDB 1KY6 file as a template was used. Casein kinase 2 substrate sites were detected by analysis of the At-AP180 sequence using the Prosite database. The best alignment of two sequences was performed with the LALIGN algorithm version. 2.0 (CITATION). To obtain the AP180 full-length cDNA the forward primer including a NcoI-site: 5′CATGCCATGGCATGGACGACGAGGACAATGCCGAGCAAGC3′ and the reverse primer containing a BamHI-site: 5′CGGGATCCCGTCAACTCAAGTGCTTGGCTATGATCTTTTTCTGG3′ were used. To obtain the full-length At-αC-Ad clone the forward primer with a KpnI-site: 5′GGGGTACCCCATGACCGGAATGAGAGGTCT CTCCG3′ and the reverse primer also containing a KpnI-site: 5′GGGGTACCCCGAAGTAAGCCAGCAAGCATAGCTCC3′ were used. The At-αC-h-ear construct was obtained by adding the forward primer containing a SmaI-site: 5′TCCCCCGGG- GACTCAAGTGCTTGGCTATGATCTTTTTCTGG3′ and the reverse primer also containing a SmaI-site: 5′TCCCCCGGGGACTCAAGTGCTTGGCTATGATCTTTTTCTGG3′. For At-αC-Ad-hδ-ear amplification, the forward primer harboring an EcoRI-site: 5′GGAATTCCAAAGCTTCTTATGCACGCTCAACCCCC3′ and the reverse primer also harboring an EcoRI-site: 5′GGAATTCCTCAGCTTTGATTG CCAATG GATATGAGG3′ were used. Site-directed mutagenesis was performed according to the manufacturer's instruction using the QuikChange Site-Directed Mutagenesis Kit from Stratagene (Heidelberg, Germany). All steps that require kits were performed according to the manufacturers' instructions. Total RNA was isolated from Arabidopsis thaliana wild-type var. Columbia leaves using the RNAeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). The cDNA was obtained from 1 μg total RNA using the AMV reverse transcriptase (Roche, Mannheim, Germany). The cDNA was subsequently used as a template to construct the following clones in PCR reactions. The 1985 bp fragment full-length At-AP180 clone was obtained with its specific primers and cloned into the pGEMT-easy vector (Promega, Mannheim, Germany) for amplification and commercial sequencing purposes (MWG, Eberswalde, Germany). To obtain the histidine fusion protein (H6-At-AP180), the At-AP180 full-length clone was then inserted into the NcoI and BamHI sites of pET30a vector (Novagen, Schwalbach, Germany). Its truncated version, At-AP180δENTH, was obtained by releasing the first 1030 bp by digestion of a sequence-internal SacI site and the vector NotI site. The 956 bp C-terminal fragment was subcloned into the pET30b vector (Novagen, Schwalbach, Germany) and subsequently cleaved using EcoRI and NotI. The fragment was ligated into the corresponding sites of the pGEX-4T3 vector (Amersham-Pharmacia Biotech, Freiburg, Germany) to obtain the GST-At-AP180δENTH clone. The full-length At-αC-Ad clone (3039 bp) as well as the At-αC-Ad-h-ear and the At-αC-Ad-hδear fragments were produced using the respective primers given above. All three PCR-fragments were subsequently cloned into the pGEMT-easy vector. To obtain the GST-At-αC-Ad-h-ear construct digestion with SmaI released the 1437 bp fragment, which was then inserted into the SmaI-site of pGEX4T-2 vector. To obtain the GST-fusion-protein of the truncated version, At-αC-Ad-hδear, digestion with EcoRI released the 669 bp fragment, which was then inserted into pGEX4T-3 vector. H6- and GST-fusion proteins were expressed and purified as described previously (CITATION), with the following modifications. For induction IPTG was added to a final concentration of 1 mM or 0.5 mM for H6- and GST-fusion proteins, respectively. Induction occured at room temperature for 3 hours. For the optimal purification of H6-At-AP180δENTH, the cytosolic supernatant obtained after the ultracentrifugation step was purified as described elsewhere (CITATION). The resulting supernatant was then incubated with 5 ml of 50% Ni-NTA beads. Protein solutions were changed into buffer G (see below) and then gelfiltered via a Superdex 200 column connected to a FPLC with a flow rate of 0.5 ml/minute. The fractions were analyzed on a Coomassie-stained gel and the positive fractions were pooled and used after protein concentration was determined (CITATION). For binding, both the GST- and the H6-fusion proteins were changed into binding buffer G (25 mM Hepes, pH 7.1, 125 mM K+-acetate, 5 mM Mg2+-acetate) using PD-10 columns (Amersham-Pharmacia Biotech, Freiburg, Germany). For each binding experiment 10 μl packed glutathione-sepharose (GSH) beads were prepared according to the manufacturer's instructions (Amersham-Pharmacia Biotech, Freiburg, Germany) and subsequently incubated with 20 μg of the respective GST-fusion protein for 1 hour at 4°C. 7 μg of the H6-At-AP180δENTH construct or 5 μg stripped clathrin from pig CCV were added to the pre-incubated GSH-beads, filled up to 200 μl final volume and incubated for 1 hour at 4°C on a rotator. The beads were washed five times with 300 μl buffer G and the final pellet was resuspended in 20 μl sample buffer (CITATION). The samples were boiled at 95°C for 1 minute and subjected to SDS-PAGE. From each supernatant 1/40 volume and from each pellet 1/4 volume were loaded on a gel-slot. Each binding assay was independently performed three times each with three samples. Clathrin reassembly was performed in a total volume of 250 μl with 40 μg clathrin alone or in the presence of 3.6 μg GST-At-AP180δENTH or 2.1 μg H6-At-AP180δENTH when equimolar concentrations (238 nM) were required. Dialysis was overnight against buffer S (0.1 M Mes, pH 6.5, 0.5 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EGTA, 0.02% NaN3). The cages were obtained in the pellets after centrifugation at 120,000 g for 20 minutes in a S45A Sorvall rotor and resuspended in 100 μl buffer S. From both, the supernatant and the pellet, 80 μl-aliquots were prepared for SDS-PAGE by adding 4× concentrated sample buffer (CITATION). Aliquots of 20 μl from the pellets were used for negative staining that was performed as described elsewhere (CITATION). The electron micrographs were taken at 80 kV using a Philips CM10 electron microscope. SDS-gradient gels (10-19%) were prepared as previously described (CITATION). Proteins were blotted onto nitrocellulose (CITATION) and visualized with the Supersignal West Pico ECL kit (Pierce, Rockford, USA). Protein concentrations were determined according to Bradford (CITATION). Primary antibodies used in immunoblots were: H6-antibody in a 1:2000 dilution and a GST-antibody at a 1:1000 dilution (both from Amersham-Pharmacia Biotech, Freiburg, Germany). The monoclonal antibody directed against mammalian CHC (BD, Transduction Laboratories, Franklin Lakes, USA) was used in 1:500 dilution. The antibodies, given with the respective final dilutions, against mammalian amphiphysin (1:10,000), epsin (1:1000), AP180 (1:2000), dynamin (1:1000), and eps15 (1:1000) were a gift from E. Ungewickell (Medical School, Hannover, Germany). Secondary antibodies against mouse, rabbit or goat coupled to horseradish peroxidase, were obtained from Sigma (Taufkirchen, Germany) and used in final concentrations of 1:10,000. CCV were isolated from pig brain as described elsewhere (CITATION). To remove the coat proteins from mammalian CCV, approx. 1 mg was incubated in final 3 mM EDTA and 0.5 M Tris/bufferA (0.1 M Mes, pH 6.4, 0.5 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EGTA, 1 mM EDTA) for 30 minutes at 4°C. Centrifugation for 1 hour at 120,000 g in a T12.50 rotor then separated the soluble coat proteins from the vesicle membranes. About 0.5 mg/0.5 ml coat proteins were applied on a Superose 6 column connected to a FPLC (Amersham-Pharmacia Biotech, Freiburg, Germany). The flow rate was 0.3 ml/minute and the fraction size was 0.5 ml. Each fraction was analyzed on immunoblots. Calibration of Superose 6 column was performed before using the molecular weight marker kit (MW-GF-1000) from Sigma (Deisenhofen, Germany). Association of H6-At-AP180δENTH with the GST-fusion proteins of At-αC-Ad was analyzed in real-time by surface plasmon-resonance (SPR) using a BIAcore 3000 biosensor (BIAcore AB, Freiburg, Germany) and is described in detail elsewhere (Jonsson et al., 1999). In brief, an anti-GST monoclonal antibody (BIAcore AB, Freiburg, Germany) was immobilized on all four flow cells of a CM-5 sensor chip. The antibody-coated chip was subsequently used to capture the GST-fusion proteins at a flow rate of 5 μl/minute followed by the analysis of H6-At-AP180 construct binding. All interaction experiments were performed with buffer G (see above) at a flow rate of 20 μl/minute. Association for 1 minute was followed by dissociation for 1 minute during which the buffer was perfused. A short pulse injection (15 seconds) of 20 mM NaOH/0.5% SDS was used to regenerate the sensor chip surface after each experimental cycle. H6-AT-AP180δENTH was used at a final concentration ranging from 125 to 1000 nM. The association constant ka, the dissociation konstant kd and the equilibrium constant kD=kd/ka were calculated using BIAcore kinetic evaluation software, assuming pseudo first order kinetics A+B ↔ AB.
