!~ABS~! Highly organized interphase cortical microtubule (MT) arrays are essential for anisotropic growth of plant cells, yet little is known about the molecular mechanisms that establish and maintain the order of these arrays. The Arabidopsis thaliana spiral1 (spr1) mutant shows right-handed helical growth in roots and etiolated hypocotyls. Characterization of the mutant phenotypes suggested that SPR1 may control anisotropic cell expansion through MT-dependent processes. SPR1 was identified by map-based cloning and found to encode a small protein with unknown function. Proteins homologous to SPR1 occur specifically and ubiquitously in plants. Genetic complementation with green fluorescent protein fusion proteins indicated that the SPR1 protein colocalizes with cortical MTs and that both MT localization and cell expansion control are conferred by the conserved N- and C-terminal regions. Strong SPR1 expression was found in tissues undergoing rapid cell elongation. Plants overexpressing SPR1 showed enhanced resistance to an MT drug and increased hypocotyl elongation. These observations suggest that SPR1 is a plant-specific MT-localized protein required for the maintenance of growth anisotropy in rapidly elongating cells.
!~RES~! Using the spr1-1 mutant allele, SPR1 was initially mapped close to the cleaved amplified polymorphisms (CAPS) marker m246 on chromosome 2 (Figure 2A). Because sequence information was not available at the time, P1 and cosmid contigs were constructed for the mapped locus. New CAPS markers were created based on the partial DNA sequences obtained from the clones in the contig and used to restrict the SPR1 gene to a 37-kb region (Figure 2A). Because spr1-1 was derived from a seed pool irradiated with fast neutrons, we searched for a deletion or a rearrangement in the 37-kb region of the spr1-1 genome. Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and PCR amplification of the spr1-1 and Landsberg erecta (Ler) genomic DNA within the target region revealed a 0.6-kb deletion in a 5.5-kb HindIII fragment. Transformation of spr1-1 mutants with the full-length Ler fragment rescued the helical growth defects (data not shown), indicating that the SPR1 gene lay in this region. Sequence analysis revealed a 632-bp deletion in the spr1-1 allele that disrupted two genes, At2g03670 and At2g03680 (Figure 2B), both of which were predicted to be expressed based on the presence of ESTs. [[FIGURE]] To identify which of the two genes was responsible for the spr1 phenotype, four more mutant alleles (spr1-2 through spr1-5; all proved to be allelic by noncomplementation) were sequenced. spr1-4 and spr1-5 contained deletions similar to that in the spr1-1 (Figure 2B). spr1-2 harbored a T-DNA insertion immediately downstream of the putative TATA box element of At2g03680 (Figure 2B). spr1-3 had a 10-bp deletion at an intron/exon junction of At2g03680 (Figure 2B). Furthermore, a 2.1-kb genomic fragment that spanned the entire coding region and the 0.4-kb 5′ region of At2g03680, but only a small C-terminal region of At2g03670 (Figure 2B), rescued the spr1-1 mutant (Figures 1E and 1L). Taken together, we concluded that At2g03680 encodes the SPR1 gene. Consistent with large deletions or an insertion in the 5′ region, spr1-1, spr1-2, spr1-4, and spr1-5 mutants did not accumulate SPR1 transcripts (Figure 3A). By contrast, spr1-3 had reduced SPR1 transcript level but slightly larger transcript size than that generated in the wild-type plants (Figure 3A). Sequencing of RT-PCR products revealed that the second intron of SPR1 was not spliced in the spr1-3 mutant. This is consistent with the 10-bp deletion in the spr1-3 allele destroying the consensus acceptor sequence of the SPR1 second intron (Figure 2B). [[FIGURE]] The predicted SPR1 polypeptide consists of 119 amino acids (Figure 2C). A TBLASTN search of the GenBank nucleotide database revealed no homologous gene with known biological or biochemical functions. Numerous EST sequences, however, were found to encode polypeptides homologous to SPR1. These SPR1-related genes appear to exist ubiquitously in plants: homologs were found in all 18 plant species for which >10,000 EST sequences have been deposited (http://www.plantgdb.org). SPR1-related sequences also were found in a moss EST database (http://moss.nibb.ac.jp/). Alignments of the protein sequences deduced from some of the EST clones are shown in Figures 2C and 2D. Only the proteins from two Brassicaceous species, Thellungiella halophila and Descurainia sophia, show amino acid identity with SPR1 along the entire polypeptide length (Figure 2C). By contrast, the closest homologs from each of the non-Brassicaceous species show sequence identity only in N- and C-terminal regions, whereas the internal regions are highly variable (Figure 2D). The Arabidopsis genome contains five SPR1 homologs that we refer to as SPIRAL1-LIKE1 (SP1L1) through SP1L5. Again, these SP1L proteins share high sequence identity only in the N- and C-terminal regions (Figure 2E). The N- and C-terminal regions show limited sequence similarity to each other (Figure 2C, arrows). Based on the EST sequences deposited in the database, all SP1L genes, except for SP1L1, are predicted to be transcribed. Because SPR1 protein sequence analysis did not provide information on likely functions, we sought to determine where the SPR1 protein is localized in Arabidopsis cells. To this end, we created transgenic plants that expressed a SPR1:GFP fusion protein under the control of the 0.4-kb 5′ region and the first intron of SPR1 (for convenience, we refer to this genomic fragment as the SPR1 promoter or PSPR1). Among the 33 transgenic lines generated in the spr1-2 mutant background (PSPR1:SPR1:GFP plants), 30 lines complemented the helical growth phenotype (Figures 1F and 1M), indicating functional integrity of the SPR1:GFP fusion protein. Confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) observation of these transgenic plants clearly showed fibrous structures in the cortical regions of hypocotyl and root epidermal cells (Figures 4A and 4B). Similar structures were observed in other organs, including cotyledons, petioles, rosette leaves, and inflorescences (data not shown). When PSPR1:SPR1:GFP plants were pretreated with the MT depolymerizing drug oryzalin, the fibrous structures disappeared, indicating that the observed structures were MTs (Figure 4C). Localization of SPR1:GFP to cortical MTs was further confirmed by double immunostaining for GFP and tubulins (Figures 4D to 4F). [[FIGURE]] To confirm the MT localization of SPR1 in wild-type plants, an antiserum was produced with recombinant SPR1 proteins. On a protein gel blot, this antiserum recognized a protein band at expected size for SPR1 (12 kD) mainly in a microsomal fraction of wild-type Columbia (Col) but not in spr1-2 (Figure 4G, arrow). Because the antiserum gave many nonspecific bands in both Col and spr1-2 extracts, affinity purification was performed to give a single major band on a protein gel blot (Figure 4H, arrow). This antibody preparation was then used for immunofluoresent staining on dark-grown hypocotyls of wild-type Col seedlings. A CLSM observation of cortical cell surface revealed fibrous structures characteristic of cortical MTs (Figure 4I). In a negative control experiment, spr1-2 mutant seedlings showed only negligible fluorescence (Figures 4J). Similar fibrous structures were visualized by a CSLM observation of GFP:α-tubulin transgenic plants (Figure 4K) (CITATION), indicating that the SPR1 antibody stained the MTs. The observed colocalization of SPR1 with cortical MTs is consistent with the proposed role of SPR1 in MT-dependent processes (CITATION). As described above, SPR1 and its homologs share sequence identity only in the N- and C-terminal regions, whereas the internal sequence is highly variable. This raised a question as to whether the internal region is required for the function(s) specific to each protein or primarily serves as a structural linker between the N- and C-terminal regions. Furthermore, we wanted to know if the conserved regions alone are sufficient for targeting SPR1 to cortical MTs. To address these questions, we created chimeric DNA constructs that express GFP proteins fused with N- and/or C-terminal regions of SPR1 under the 35S promoter (P35S) of Cauliflower mosaic virus (Figure 5A). These constructs were introduced into spr1-3 mutants. [[FIGURE]] As shown in Figure 5E, replacing the internal sequence of SPR1 with GFP (P35S:NGC; N, G, and C stand for SPR1 N-region, GFP, and SPR1 C-region, respectively) partially rescued the root skewing phenotype of spr1-3. Microscopic analysis revealed that the helical growth of root epidermal cell files was also partially rescued (data not shown). By contrast, GFP fused with either the N- or C-terminal region alone (P35S:NG or P35S:GC) or free GFP (P35S:G) failed to rescue the spr1-3 defects (Table 1, Figures 5C, 5D, and 5F). Root Skewing Angles of GFP Transgenic Plants, Wild-Type Col, and spr1-3 Mutants Transgenic plants were then examined by CLSM to observe the distribution of the GFP fusion proteins. Only the NGC fusion protein was localized to cortical MTs (Figure 5I), whereas the NG, GC, and G proteins were all distributed throughout the peripheral cytoplasm (Figures 5G, 5H, and 5J). These results indicate that the conserved N- and C-terminal regions act together in targeting SPR1 proteins to cortical MTs and that the internal region may play minor roles as compared with the conserved N- and C-terminal regions. The coincidence between phenotypic rescue and MT localization further suggests that the primary function of SPR1 is related to its association with cortical MTs. An RNA gel blot analysis using total RNAs from various organs of wild-type Arabidopsis plants indicated ubiquitous expression of SPR1 (Figure 3B). To analyze SPR1 expression at the tissue level, we made a construct in which the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene was placed under the 1.0-kb SPR1 promoter described above and the 0.3-kb 3′ region of SPR1 (TSPR1). This construct (PSPR1:GUS:TSPR1) was introduced into wild-type Col plants by Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation. Seedlings from 28 independent transgenic lines were stained for GUS activity. All lines showed a very similar staining pattern, except for two that showed no staining. Five lines harboring homozygous T-DNA insertion at a single locus were established and used for detailed expression analysis described below. Strong GUS staining was found at the root tip, including early elongation zone (Figure 6A). In mature roots, GUS stain was present in all cell layers (Figure 6B). In flowers, strong GUS activity was found in anthers, stigmas (Figure 6C), and pollen (data not shown in detail). [[FIGURE]] In young seedlings, the expression of SPR1 appeared to be dependent on light and developmental stage. When seedlings were grown under continuous illumination of white light, hypocotyls showed negligible staining, whereas cotyledons started to express GUS after 4 d of growth (Figure 6D). By contrast, when seedlings were grown in the dark, hypocotyls started to express GUS after 3 to 4 d of growth, whereas cotyledons remained unstained (Figures 6G to 6K). The light-dependent induction of GUS expression in the cotyledons was confirmed by exposing dark-grown seedlings to continuous light. One day after the transfer, cotyledons of the light-exposed seedlings started to express GUS, whereas those of control seedlings left in the darkness remained unstained (cf. Figures 6E and 6F). GUS staining in the root was constitutive; no difference was observed between light- and dark-grown seedlings (data not shown). Interestingly, the region of strong GUS stain moved acropetally along the hypocotyls of dark-grown seedlings. Three- or 3.5-day-old seedlings (corresponding to 24 to 36 h after germination) showed GUS stain preferentially at the basal part of hypocotyls (Figures 6G and 6H). Four- or five-day-old seedlings were stained in the middle region of hypocotyls (Figures 6I and 6J). In 6-d-old seedlings, GUS stain revealed expression only in the apical region of fully elongated hypocotyls (Figure 6K). A similar expression pattern was detected by immunostaining of dark-grown wild-type hypocotyls (see supplemental data online). In summary, high SPR1 expression was associated with tissues undergoing rapid cell expansion, including the root elongation zone, hypocotyls of dark grown-seedlings, and cotyledons of light-grown seedlings (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To gain further insight into the SPR1 function, we generated transgenic plants that overexpressed SPR1 under the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus (P35S:SPR1 plants) in the wild-type Col and Ler backgrounds. RNA gel blot analysis revealed that P35S:SPR1 plants accumulated 20 to 40 times more SPR1 transcript than corresponding nontransformants (Figure 7A). The P35S:SPR1 plants were apparently normal (Figure 1G). It is notable that the root epidermal appearance of the P35S:SPR1 roots was indistinguishable from those of the wild type (Figure 1N): increased SPR1 level did not cause left-handed twisting of root epidermal cell files. This suggests that SPR1 does not simply act in biasing the cell elongation toward a certain direction. Rather, it suggests that SPR1 is necessary to maintain straight cell elongation. [[FIGURE]] The P35S:SPR1 plants were found to be moderately more resistant to long-term treatment with the MT-depolymerizing drug propyzamide. When grown on a medium containing 5 μM propyzamide, plants from two independent P35S:SPR1 lines (1 and 2) showed marginal survival, whereas both Ler and spr1-1 plants died (Figure 7B). To investigate the role of SPR1 in cell elongation, we compared the cell elongation kinetics of P35S:SPR1, wild-type Col, and spr1-2 plants using dark-grown hypocotyls, the extension of which relies solely on cell expansion but not on cell division (CITATION). Seedlings of wild-type Col, spr1-2, and a P35S:SPR1 line made in the Col background (line 3) were grown in the dark. At 24-h intervals, positions of the shoot apical meristem were marked on the surface of Petri dishes under a dissecting microscope illuminated with dim green light. At all time points, hypocotyls of the P35S:SPR1 plants were longer than those of wild-type plants (Figure 7C). The differences were statistically significant at all time points (P < 10−7, Student's t test). We repeated the same experiment and obtained a similar result. This observation suggests that enhancement of SPR1 expression levels can increase cell elongation. By contrast, hypocotyls of spr1-2 mutants elongated at a rate similar to that of wild-type plants up to 2 d after germination. At this time point, spr1-2 hypocotyls did not show the helical growth (data not shown). Three days after germination, elongation of spr1-2 hypocotyls started to decline. It was at this time point that the upper part of the spr1-2 hypocotyls developed the helical growth phenotype (CITATION).
!~MM~! Isolation of spr1-1 (Ler), spr1-2 (Col), spr1-3 (Col), and spr1-4 (Wassilewskija ecotype) mutant alleles have been described (CITATION). spr1-5 (Wassilewskija ecotype) was isolated from the Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique T-DNA population (http://flagdb-genoplante-info.infobiogen.fr/projects/fst/DocsIntro/introCollection.html). Plants were grown as described previously (CITATION), unless noted otherwise. F2 progenies from a cross between spr1-1 (in Ler) and wild-type Col were used as a mapping population. The completely recessive spr1-1 allele allowed simple linkage analysis between the SPR1 locus and the Ler chromosome. The SPR1 locus was found to be closely linked to the m246 CAPS marker that was located at the top end of chromosome 2 (no recombinants in 282 chromosomes). A P1 genomic library (generated at Mitsui Gyosai Bio) was screened using the m246 PCR fragment as a probe. Three clones were obtained and aligned into a contig based on the BamHI restriction map. New CAPS markers were generated from the insert-end sequences of the P1 clones. Use of these markers confined the SPR1 locus in a 60-kb segment. A cosmid minilibrary was constructed from a pool of partially digested P1 DNAs and the pOCA18 vector (CITATION). Four cosmid clones that cover the 60-kb genomic region were digested with HindIII and the fragments subcloned into pBluescript KS+. DNA sequences derived from these subclones were used to generate a new set of CAPS markers and used for 394 F2 chromosomes. The SPR1 locus was finally restricted to a 37-kb interval. Genomic DNAs from spr1-1 and Ler were digested with HindIII and subjected to a genomic DNA gel blot using each of the two cosmid clones spanning the 37-kb segment as a probe. A restriction fragment length polymorphism was found in a 5.4-kb Ler fragment, which in spr1-1 was 4.7 kb. A series of PCR amplification steps were performed to scan the 37-kb region and successfully detected 0.6-kb deletion within the 5.4-kb HindIII fragment. This fragment was introduced into the spr1-1 mutant using pBIN19 binary vector and shown to rescue the spr1 mutant defects. Subsequent sequencing of five spr1 alleles predicted that the gene At2g03680 encodes SPR1. This was further confirmed by genetic complementation of spr1-1 with a 2.1-kb SpeI-SnaBI genomic fragment that spanned the 0.4-kb upstream region relative to the putative TATA box, all exons and introns, and the 0.6-kb downstream region of At2g03680. Total RNA was extracted from Arabidopsis thaliana plants with the RNAeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). RNA was separated by a formaldehyde gel and transferred to Hybond-N+ membrane (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ) according to the manufacturer's instructions. After UV cross-linking, rRNAs were visualized by 0.02% (w/v) methylene blue in 0.5 M sodium acetate, pH 5.2. Membranes were preincubated with the hybridization buffer consisting of 2× SSC (1× SSC is 0.15 M NaCl and 0.015 M sodium citrate), 1% (w/v) SDS, 10% (w/v) dextran sulfate, 100 μg/mL of denatured herring sperm DNA, and 50% (v/v) deionized formamide at 42°C. The full-length SPR1-coding region was 32P-labeled and incubated with the membranes overnight at 42°C. Membranes were washed with a solution consisting of 0.1% (w/v) SDS and 0.1× SSC at 55°C. Radioactive signal was scanned by the BAS2500 image analyzer (Fuji Film, Tokyo, Japan). Plasmids for plant transformation and recombinant protein production were constructed by a standard molecular biology technique (CITATION). The SPR1 genomic or cDNA fragments used were produced by PCR from cloned DNA or genomic DNA. All PCR-derived clones were sequenced along their entire length to exclude the possibility of PCR-induced errors. GFP-coding sequences used in this study were derived from pAVA319 (CITATION). The 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus and the GUS-coding region were derived from pBI221 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA). For recombinant protein expression, full-length SPR1-coding region was inserted into the vectors pMALc2x (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA) and pET32b (Novagen, Madison, WI) to produce the fusion proteins with maltose binding protein (MBP:SPR1) and thioredoxin (TRX:SPR1), respectively. Detailed construction procedures are available upon request. For plant transformation, each DNA construct was transferred to either the pBIN19 (CITATION) or the pBIB vector that harbored a hygromycin-resistant marker (CITATION) and then introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain PMP90. Arabidopsis plants were transformed by the floral dip method (CITATION). Recombinant protein was produced in the E. coli strain BL21. All proteins were expressed as a soluble form at 37°C. Proteins were extracted by sonication and affinity purified using amylose resin (New England Biolabs) for MBP:SPR1 or nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose (Qiagen) for TRX:SPR1 according to the manufacturers' instructions. The eluted proteins were further purified by anion-exchange chromatography using either a Mono Q fast-protein liquid chromatography column or Q-Sepharose fast flow resin (Amersham Biosciences). Polyclonal rabbit antisera were produced using TRX:SPR1 as an antigen. For protein gel blotting, antiserum was directly added at 1/2000 dilution. Signal was detected with the ECL-plus kit (Amersham Biosciences). For histochemical staining, antiserum was purified in three steps to reduce nonspecific binding. The first step used protein A-Sepharose (Amersham Biosciences) to purify whole IgG fraction. The second step was to remove antibodies specific for the TRX tag. This was accomplished by the use of recombinant TRX immobilized on an NHS-activated Sepharose column (Amersham Biosciences). The third step involved affinity purification using purified MBP:SPR1 protein immobilized on NHS-activated Sepharose. All antibody purification procedures were performed according to the described methods (CITATION). For plant protein extraction, Arabidopsis seedlings were sliced into small pieces by razor blades and ground in ice-cold extraction buffer (50 mM Hepes-KOH, pH 7.5, 5 mM EDTA, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 1 mM DTT, 0.25 M sucrose, 20 μg/mL of pepstatin A, and 20 μg/mL of leupeptin) containing 0.1 mg/mL of butylated hydroxytoluene and 10% (v/v) polyclar AT. After filtration through two layers of Miracloth (Calbiochem, San Diego, CA), the insoluble debris was removed by centrifugation at 7000g for 15 min at 4°C. Microsomal proteins then were separated from the supernatant by centrifuging the protein extracts twice at 50,000g for 30 min at 4°C. Immunoblot analysis was performed with Hybond-P membrane and the ECL-plus kit (Amersham Biosciences) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Whole mount immunostaining was done by the method described for MT labeling (CITATION) with some modifications. Seedlings were fixed for 40 min in a solution containing 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde (TAAB, Berkshire, UK) made in PEMT buffer [50 mM piperazine-1,4-bis(2-ethanesulfonic acid), pH 7.2, 2 mM EGTA, 2 mM MgSO4, and 0.05% (w/v) Triton X-100]. After NaBH4 treatment, seedlings were incubated in blocking buffer (1% [w/v] BSA and 0.05% Tween 20 in PBS) overnight. Seedlings were then incubated with affinity-purified anti-SPR1 antibody in the blocking buffer for 3 h at room temperature. Alexa Fluor 488–conjugated anti-rabbit IgG (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) was used as a secondary antibody. CSLM observation was performed with a Leica LSM510 confocal microscope (Wetzlar, Germany). The 488-nm argon laser beam was used for the excitation of GFP and Alexa Fluor 488. Some images were processed by the Photoshop program (Adobe Systems, San Jose, CA) to enhance image contrast. GUS staining was done in a solution containing 1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide, 50 mM potassium phosphate, pH 7.0, 0.5 mM potassium ferrocyanide, 0.5 mM potassium ferricyanide, 0.2% (v/v) Tween 20, and 20% (v/v) methanol. After staining, plants were incubated in 70% (v/v) ethanol at 37°C overnight, then transferred to a series of decreasing concentrations of ethanol (50, 30, and 0% [v/v]). Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under the following accession numbers: Arabidopsis SPR1, AY464947; Arabidopsis SPR1 homologs, SP1L1, NM_102400 (At1g26360); SP1L2, NM_105590 (At1g69230); SP1L3, NM_111085 (At3g02180); SP1L4, NM_121564 (At5g15600); SP1L5, NM_118480 (At4g23496). SPR1 homologs from other species are T. halophila, BM985496; D. sophia, BG321626; Soybean, BI787806; Tomato, AW219464; Cotton, BE052696; Maize, BI431085; and Rice, CA758698. The moss SPR1 homolog sequence (contig 465; Physcomitrella patens) was retrieved from the Physcobase database (http://moss.nibb.ac.jp). Nucleotide sequence for SP1L1 is very likely to be misannotated in the database, where coding regions for SP1L1 and the preceding hydrolase-like gene are fused together. In this study, we separated the deposited nucleotide sequence into two genes, and the latter half was designated SP1L1.
