!~ABS~! We identified a novel mutation of a nuclear-encoded gene, designated as CRUMPLED LEAF (CRL), of Arabidopsis thaliana that affects the morphogenesis of all plant organs and division of plastids. Histological analysis revealed that planes of cell division were distorted in shoot apical meristems (SAMs), root tips, and embryos in plants that possess the crl mutation. Furthermore, we observed that differentiation patterns of cortex and endodermis cells in inflorescence stems and root endodermis cells were disturbed in the crl mutant. These results suggest that morphological abnormalities observed in the crl mutant were because of aberrant cell division and differentiation. In addition, cells of the crl mutant contained a reduced number of enlarged plastids, indicating that the division of plastids was inhibited in the crl. The CRL gene encodes a novel protein with a molecular mass of 30 kDa that is localized in the plastid envelope. The CRL protein is conserved in various plant species, including a fern, and in cyanobacteria, but not in other organisms. These data suggest that the CRL protein is required for plastid division, and it also plays an important role in cell differentiation and the regulation of the cell division plane in plants. A possible function of the CRL protein is discussed.
!~RES~! The crl mutant was isolated from a population of transferred DNA (T-DNA)-mutagenized plants of A. thaliana (CITATION), where the F2 line segregated for plants with distorted leaf laminas. In the self-pollinated offsprings of these crl heterozygous plants, mutant and normal plants segregated to almost 1 : 3 ratio (62 : 220; χ2 = 1.05; P = 0.30), indicating that the mutation was inherited as a single recessive trait. The crl mutant plants were pale green, had a reduced stature, and possessed crumpled laminas and irregular leaf margins compared to wild-type plants (Figure 1a–c). Petals and sepals of the crl mutant were also crumpled and had irregular margins (Figure 1d). Roots of the crl mutant were shorter than those of the wild type (Figure 1e). Examination of leaf cross-sections revealed that leaf lamina of the crl mutant comprised of random-sized cells compared to those of the wild-type lines (Figure 2a,b). Mesophyll cells were also altered in morphology and organization (Figure 2b). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The inflorescence stem of the crl mutant was thinner and shorter than that of the wild type (Figures 1c and 2d). Histological analysis of the inner structure of the inflorescence stem revealed that cells corresponding to the cortex were abnormally enlarged and reduced in number in the crl mutant (Figure 2d,f). The number of cells corresponding to endodermis and interfascicular fiber cells was also reduced in the crl mutant (Figure 2f). The morphology of embryos from self-pollinated plants heterozygous for crl and CRL was analyzed because the crl mutant had a substantially reduced fertility. Nearly one quarter of the embryos from the heterozygous plants possessed bumpy surfaces (Figure 2h; 17 : 58; χ2 = 0.212; P = 0.63). These morphological features were never observed in embryos from self-pollinated wild-type plants (Figure 2g), indicating that the abnormal embryos were most likely homozygous for the crl mutations. We investigated the structure of the SAM. As shown in Figure 3(a), the SAM of wild type was organized in three cell layers, L1, L2, and L3. Of these three layers, L1 and L2 layers of wild type are composed of a single cell layer as a consequence of a series of anticlinal cell divisions. In contrast to wild type, the layers in the crl mutant was disorganized and composed of cells of a relatively random size (Figure 3b). Oblique division planes were also observed in some cells in the L2 layer of the crl mutant, thus giving the L2 layer a discontinuous appearance (Figure 3b, vertical arrow). This result suggested that the plane of orientation of cell division in the SAM was distorted in the crl mutant. [[FIGURE]] We then examined longitudinal sections of root tips to investigate the structure of the crl root. In contrast to wild type, oblique and periclinal planes of cell division were observed in some cells of the cortex, endodermis, and pericycle of the crl mutant (Figure 3d, arrows and arrowhead), which made these cell profiles to appear discontinuous. In addition, the arrangement of the columella root cap cells of the crl mutant was disordered (Figure 3f). Embryos from self-pollinated plants heterozygous for crl were analyzed. The first abnormality in the shape of the crl embryo was observed from the two-cell stage. Although all the zygotes of the wild type underwent vertical division (n = 98; Figure 3g), 2% of the embryos from the crl heterozygotes underwent horizontal division (n = 100; Figure 3h). Suspensor cells in the crl mutant sometimes underwent periclinal division (Figure 3j, arrowheads) that were never observed in the wild-type embryos (Figure 3i). The organization of cells in the embryo proper was also disorganized in the crl mutant (Figure 3j). Histological analysis described in the preceding sections indicated that the development of some types of cells in the inflorescence stem and embryo could be affected in the crl mutant. To examine whether the differentiation of endodermal cells in the root was altered in the crl mutant, we examined the expression pattern of SCARECROW which is fused to the green fluorescent protein (GFP) (SCR::GFP; CITATION), an endodermis-specific gene, in the root of the crl mutant. As shown in Figure 4(b), the expression of the SCR::GFP in the root of the crl was discontinuous (Figure 4b) and, in some cases, was observed in two cell layers (Figure 4c, arrowheads). These results show that the differentiation of the endodermal cells in the root is impaired in the crl mutant. [[FIGURE]] Mesophyll cells of the crl mutant contained fewer chloroplasts that were extremely enlarged compared to those of the wild type (Figures 5b and 6b). Estimations by microscopy revealed that the mean number of chloroplasts in the crl mutant was 1.5 ± 0.8 per mesophyll cell, whereas that in the wild type was 113 ± 19 (Figure 5c,d). Chloroplast sizes were determined by measuring the maximum area of their optical cross-sections. The average size of a chloroplast was 194 ± 154 µm2 in the crl and 22.2 ± 4.0 µm2 in the wild type. In addition, the SDs of chloroplast size in the crl mutant fluctuated widely, indicating a greater heterogeneity in chloroplast size in the crl mutant compared to that in the wild type. These results suggested that the chloroplasts in the crl mutant were not only enlarged but also divided unevenly. We investigated the size and the number of proplastids in the SAM by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). As shown in Figure 6(e), proplastids in the SAM were enlarged and reduced in number in the crl mutant when compared to wild type, indicating that chloroplast division was inhibited at an early stage by the crl mutation. The morphology of mitochondria in the crl mutant was the same as that of the wild type (data not shown). Ultrastructural analysis of the inner membrane structures of the enlarged chloroplasts by TEM revealed that there were no obvious differences in the organization of the thylakoid membranes between wild type and the crl mutant (Figure 6b.c). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We also investigated the size and number of plastids in cells of root tip, and amyloplasts in cotyledons and hypocotyls, and this analysis revealed that they were all enlarged and reduced in number (Figure 6g, arrowheads; data not shown). These results suggest that divisions of plastids in all organs are inhibited in the crl mutant. Photosynthesis in the crl mutant was investigated using pulse amplitude-modulated chlorophyll fluorescence analysis (CITATION). The ratio of variable fluorescence (Fv):maximum fluorescence (Fm) was identical between the crl and wild-type plants (Table 1). This result indicated that photosystem II (PSII) of the crl mutant was not impaired. The amounts of chlorophylls a and b decreased in the crl mutant by approximately one-third compared with the wild type (Table 1), while the chlorophyll a/b ratio of the crl mutant was the same as that for the wild type (Table 1). These results suggested that photosynthesis efficiency in the crl mutant is reduced, whereas the maximum yield of PSII photochemistry (Fv/Fm) is not altered.  Samples were taken from fully expanded leaves of 34-day-old plants grown on soil. Pigment values represent means (±SE) of three independent determinations. We cloned a DNA region flanking the integration site of the T-DNA by the plasmid rescue method. The nucleotide sequence of the flanking region revealed that T-DNA was inserted into a gene of which the MIPS (Munich Information Center for Protein Sequences) code is At5g51020. Determination of the integration site of the T-DNA by PCR revealed that the T-DNA was inserted around the 3′ end of the third exon, generating a 43-bp deletion (Figure 7a). When the cDNA coding region of At5g51020 under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter was introduced into the crl mutant, the mutant phenotype was rescued in all the mutants we examined with regard to gross morphology of the plant, leaf morphology, chloroplast size, and chloroplast number (Figure 7d). These results indicated that At5g51020 is the CRL gene. However, the cotyledons of rescued plants possessed slightly irregular margins and contained a reduced number of enlarged chloroplasts in some mesophyll cells in cotyledons (data not shown). The partial complementation can probably be attributed to the expression of cDNA by the CaMV 35S promoter. [[FIGURE]] The CRL gene was ubiquitously expressed, and the expression was relatively low in roots and mature siliques (Figure 7f). No signal was detected in the crl mutant, indicating that this mutant is most likely a null allele (Figure 7f, lane 11). The CRL gene encoded a novel protein with a predicted molecular mass of 30 330 (Figure 7b). A blast search revealed that there are no other genes significantly similar to the CRL in the genome of A. thaliana. As a distinguishing feature, the predicted CRL protein contained only a stretch of hydrophobic amino acid residues that constituted a putative transmembrane domain near its N-terminus (Figure 7b, asterisks). Comparison of the amino acid sequence of the CRL protein with the GenBank database revealed the presence of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) that encode proteins highly homologous to CRL in various species of dicots and monocots, and also in a fern (Ceratopteris richardii), but not in yeast and animals (Figure 7b). Putative genes that encode proteins showing weak similarities to CRL are also present in cyanobacteria (NP_441787 of Synechocystis sp. PCC6803, NP_484691 of Nostoc sp. PCC7120, ZP_00106171 of Nostoc punctiforme, ZP_00109082 of N. punctiforme, and ZP_00109088 of N. punctiforme; data not shown). However, the CRL protein has no similarity to proteins with predicted or known functions. To determine the subcellular localization of the CRL protein, sGFP gene was fused to the 5′ or 3′ ends of the coding region of the CRL cDNA to generate CRL-sGFP and sGFP-CRL chimeric proteins under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. These proteins preserved the function of the CRL protein, because these chimeric genes were able to complement the crl mutation (data not shown). Confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed identical patterns of subcellular localization of both CRL-sGFP and sGFP-CRL in wild-type plants. The results of the CRL-sGFP protein experiment are shown in Figure 8. [[FIGURE]] In mesophyll cells, CRL-sGFP protein appeared as a circular and rim-like fluorescence pattern, indicating that CRL is localized at the chloroplast periphery (Figure 8e,f). The CRL protein probably localizes to the envelope membrane of the chloroplast. No fluorescence because of the CRL-sGFP was detected within the chloroplasts or other subcellular areas (Figure 8e; unpublished observation). We fractionated protein extracts from the wild-type plants into membrane and soluble fractions, and subjected these fractions to Western blot analysis using an antiserum against CRL. The CRL protein was only present in the membrane fraction (Figure 8g, lane 2). This result ruled out the possibility that some amount of the CRL protein is dispersed in cytosol or stroma. To determine the localization of the CRL protein within the chloroplast, we isolated chloroplasts from the transgenic crl/crl plants expressing CRL::sGFP. We then prepared chloroplast homogenates and fractionated the homogenates into soluble and membrane fractions. Proteins extracted from these fractions were subjected to Western blot analysis using an antiserum against GFP. A protein corresponding to the expected molecular mass of the CRL-sGFP (56 kDa) was detected only in the membrane fraction (Figure 8h, lane 2), indicating that the CRL protein localizes in the envelope or thylakoid membrane. The isolated chloroplasts were then treated with trypsin to digest the proteins outside the inner envelope membrane (Figure 8h, lane 5). The CRL-sGFP protein was susceptible to trypsin, while the cpSecY (chloroplast homolog of bacterial sec 4) localized in the thylakoid was not (Figure 8h, lane 5). The inner envelope membrane protein, atTic22 (Arabidopsis homolog of Tic 22), was also digested (Figure 8h, lane 5). The CRL-sGFP protein was also susceptible to thermolysin, while cpSecY and atTic22 were not (Figure 8h, lane 7). These results, taken together with those of fluorescence analysis, suggest that the CRL protein is localized in the outer envelope membrane of chloroplasts. Next, the chloroplasts were treated with 1 m NaCl or 0.5 m Na2CO3 at pH 11.5. CRL protein was not extracted from the membranes after NaCl or Na2CO3 treatment (Figure 8i, lanes 2–5). These results indicate that CRL protein is an integral protein of the outer envelope membrane of chloroplasts.
!~MM~! The Columbia (Col-0) ecotypes of A. thaliana (L.) Heynh. were the wild types used in this study. The crl mutant was isolated from the gene trap library of Col-0 (CITATION) as a mutant with abnormal leaf morphology. The original crl mutant was back-crossed three times with wild-type plants before further characterization. Seeds of A. thaliana were sown on soil or Murashige and Skoog medium plates containing 0.2% gelrite (Wako Pure Chemical Industries, Ltd., Osaka, Japan). The seeds were placed at 4°C under dark condition for 2 days and then grown at 22°C under a 16-h light/8-h dark cycle for phenotypical analysis or continuous light. Plastic sections were prepared and observed as described by CITATION). For electron microscopic observation, tissues from Col-0 and the crl plants were fixed and sectioned as described by CITATION) and observed with an electron microscope (model H-7000B; Hitachi, Tokyo). Determination of chlorophyll content was performed as described by CITATION). In vivo chlorophyll fluorescence was measured at room temperature with the Plant Efficiency Analyser (Hansatech Instruments, UK) after 15 min of dark adaptation. The maximal Fv was obtained by subtraction of the initial fluorescence (F0) from the Fm. The ratio of Fv/Fm served as a measure of the maximal photochemical efficiency of PSII. The entire coding region of the CRL was amplified from the cDNA synthesized from poly(A)+ RNA of wild type by PCR using oligonucleotides, which are complementary to its 5′ and 3′ ends. The amplified DNA fragment was introduced into pTH-2 (CITATION) to fuse the 3′ or the 5′ end of the coding region of the CRL gene with sGFP. DNA fragments of the resulting plasmids containing CaMV 35S promoter, CRL::sGFP, or sGFP::CRL chimera gene, and the polyadenylation site of the nopalin synthase gene (Tnos) were then introduced into the cloning sites of binary vector pGreen-BAR (CITATION) to give pNU606 and pNU607. These plasmids were introduced into CRL/crl plants by in planta transformation as described by CITATION). The genotypes of crl/crl plants were determined by PCR using oligonucleotides as follows: for CRL, p1 (5′-ATGGGTACCGAGTCGGGTTCGGA-3′) and p2 (5′-CTAGTCTTGCAAGATGAGGGACCCTT-3′); for GUS, pGUSF1 (5′-GTGGAATTGATCAGCGTTGGTGGGAA-3′) and pGUSR2 (5′-TTCTTGTTACCGCCAACGCGCAATATG-3′). GFP fluorescence was visualized on whole mounts using a confocal laser scanning microscope (Model LSM 510; Carl Zeiss, Obertochen, Germany) with argon laser as described by CITATION). Details of construction of the plasmids are available on request. Chloroplasts were isolated from transgenic plants containing the CRL::sGFP gene, genotypes of which were crl/crl, using the method of isolation of pea chloroplast described previously by CITATION). Isolated chloroplasts were disrupted by suspension in lysis buffer containing 10 mm HEPES–KOH (pH 8.0) and 10 mm MgCl2, and were then fractionated into membrane and soluble fractions by centrifugation at 10 000 g for 5 min at 4°C. Trypsin and thermolysin treatment of isolated chloroplasts was carried out as described by CITATION). Chloroplasts corresponding to 100 µg of chlorophyll were suspended in 500 µl of 50 mm HEPES–KOH (pH 8.0), 0.33 m sorbitol (SH) buffer containing 0.2 mg ml−1 of trypsin or 0.1 mg ml−1 of thermolysin (Wako Pure Chemical Industries, Ltd.). Triton X-100 was added to 1× SH buffer at 1% when necessary. Total cell extracts were lyzed in 10 mm HEPES–KOH buffer (pH 8.0) containing 10 mm MgCl2 and protease inhibitor cocktail, and were then fractionated into membrane and soluble fractions by centrifugation at 10 000 g for 5 min at 4°C. The membrane fractions were lyzed in 10 mm HEPES–KOH buffer (pH 8.0) containing 10 mm MgCl2, protease inhibitors (1 mm PMSF (phenyl methane sulphonyl fluoride), 1 mm EDTA·2Na, 1 µg ml−1 leupeptin, 1 µg ml−1 pepstatin A), and 1% digitonin. SDS–PAGE and Western blotting was carried out as described previously by CITATION). An anti-CRL polyclonal antibody was raised for the CRL protein that was expressed in Escherichia coli as a His tag fusion protein. Antibodies were purified by the antigen coupled HiTrap™ NHS-activated HP (Amersham Biosciences, Tokyo, Japan) and were used for detection of the CRL protein. An anti-GFP polyclonal antibody (Medical & Biological Laboratories Co., Ltd., Nagoya, Japan) was used for detection of the CRL-sGFP protein. The large subunit of ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RBCL) was detected by an antibody raised against tobacco RBCL, and was used as control for the membrane fractionation. An anti-Tic22 polyclonal antibody raised for the Tic22 protein of pea and an anti-cpSecY polyclonal antibody raise for the cpSecY protein of pea were also used as controls for the membrane fractionation and protease treatments. Isolated chloroplasts were treated with 1 m NaCl or 0.5 m Na2CO3 at pH 11.5. Treated chloroplasts were separated to supernatants and pellets by centrifugation at 100 000 g for 30 min at 4°C.
