!~ABS~! Peroxisomes undergo dramatic changes in size, shape, number, and position within the cell, but the division process of peroxisomes has not been characterized. We screened a number of Arabidopsis mutants with aberrant peroxisome morphology (apm mutants). In one of these mutants, apm1, the peroxisomes are long and reduced in number, apparently as a result of inhibition of division. We showed that APM1 encodes dynamin-related protein 3A (DRP3A), and that mutations in APM1/DRP3A also caused aberrant morphology of mitochondria. The transient expression analysis showed that DRP3A is associated with the cytosolic side of peroxisomes. These findings indicate that the same dynamin molecule is involved in peroxisomal and mitochondrial division in higher plants. We also report that the growth of Arabidopsis, which requires the cooperation of various organelles, including peroxisomes and mitochondria, is repressed in apm1, indicating that the changes of morphology of peroxisomes and mitochondria reduce the efficiency of metabolism in these organelles.
!~RES~! To better understand peroxisomal division, we attempted to generate mutants having peroxisomes with different sizes or shapes, as these mutants would be expected to be defective in peroxisomal division. We used seeds of a transgenic Arabidopsis termed GFP-PTS1 in which peroxisomes with normal size and number can be visualized with GFP (Figures 1a,b,e,f and 2a,e). GFP-PTS1 seeds were mutagenized with ethylmethane sulfonate and allowed to germinate. Of about 37 000 M2 plants examined under the fluorescence microscope, we identified 82 plants that had abnormal peroxisome morphology. The apm mutants were classified into four classes. These were mutants with: (i) long peroxisomes; (ii) giant peroxisomes; (iii) GFP fluorescence in the cytosol as well as in peroxisomes; and (iv) other distributions of GFP (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In the present study, we focused on one class of the apm mutants, referred to as apm1, which have slightly larger peroxisomes with long string-like tails (Figures 1c,d,g,h and 2). The lengths of peroxisomes are different in different organs. Long-shaped cells, such as cells in the root hairs (Figure 1c,d), in the trichome (Figure 1g,h), and in the elongation zone of roots (data not shown), contain peroxisomes with a very long tail whose length is almost equal to the length of the cells. In addition, the number of peroxisomes in the cells is markedly reduced. Root hair cells have only one or two peroxisomes (Figure 1c,d). The extent of appearance of aberrant peroxisomes is different between roots (Figure 2b–d) and leaves (Figure 2f–h) in the same plant. These results show that apm1 mutants have defects in peroxisomal division, and that peroxisomal division might be different between roots and leaves. Immunoelectron microscopic analysis using anti-GFP antibodies and antibodies raised against catalase, which is a peroxisomal marker, revealed the co-localization of GFP and catalase (Figure 1i,j). This confirms the presence of long peroxisomes in apm1 mutants (Figure 1j). We investigated the morphology of other organelles, especially chloroplasts and mitochondria. The autofluorescence of chloroplasts revealed no differences in the size, shape, orientation, or number between GFP-PTS1 (Figure 3a) and apm1 alleles (Figure 3b–d). The structures inside the chloroplasts, such as grana, stroma, and starch grains, were also indistinguishable between GFP-PTS1 (Figure 3e) and apm1-13 (Figure 3f). These results indicate that the apm1 mutation does not cause aberrant morphology of chloroplasts. [[FIGURE]] Next, we examined mitochondria in protoplasts isolated from root cells of GFP-PTS1 (Figure 4a,e,i) and apm1-13 (Figure 4b,f,j). The mitochondria in apm1-13 (Figure 4f) are fewer and longer than those in GFP-PTS1 (Figure 4e), although the morphological change of mitochondria was less dramatic than that of peroxisomes (Figure 4a,b). In addition, electron microscopic analyses revealed the presence of slightly long mitochondria (Figure 4h) as well as long peroxisomes (Figure 4d) in apm1-13 root cells compared to those in GFP-PTS1 (Figure 4c,g). Interestingly, giant mitochondria in addition to long mitochondria were observed in leaf cells in apm1-13 (Figure 4l; see normal mitochondria in Figure 4k). On the other hand, other organelles, such as the nucleus, vacuole, Golgi apparatus, and ER, are indistinguishable between GFP-PTS1 and apm1 mutants (data not shown). Therefore, APM1 is involved in the division of both peroxisomes and mitochondria. Although peroxisomes are more abnormal in root cells than in leaf cells in apm1 mutants, the opposite is true for mitochondria (Figure 4h,l). These results indicate that the mechanisms by which APM1 regulates peroxisomal and mitochondrial division are somewhat different. [[FIGURE]] We also investigated the relationship between the apm1 mutation and peroxisomal and mitochondrial functions. Gluconeogenesis from storage lipids is necessary for the production of sucrose as the energy for germination and requires peroxisomal and mitochondrial functions. Therefore, peroxisomal β-oxidation-defective mutants, such as the peroxisome defective 1 (ped1) mutant, require exogenous sucrose for germination (ped1 in Figure 5a; CITATION). Although apm1 mutants were able to germinate on medium without sucrose, the root length in apm1-13 and apm1-6 was shorter than that of GFP-PTS1 (Figure 5a). Application of exogenous sucrose rescued the inhibition of root growth slightly (data not shown), but not completely, suggesting that the decrease in activity of β-oxidation is not the only factor for inhibition of root growth. [[FIGURE]] We analyzed growth on medium with 2,4-dichlorophenoxybutylic acid (2,4-DB) to confirm the reduction of activity for β-oxidation by another method (Figure 5b). 2,4-DB is metabolized to the herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxybutylic acid (2,4-D) by the action of β-oxidation. Accordingly, the growth of wild-type plants is inhibited on medium with 2,4-DB, whereas β-oxidation-defective mutants are able to germinate on medium with 2,4-DB (ped1 in Figure 5b; CITATION). The germination of three alleles (apm1-1, apm1-6, and apm1-13) that we tested, like that of wild-type plants, was inhibited on medium with 2,4-DB, whereas the inhibition of germination in apm1-6 and apm1-13 was a little incomplete compared to that in apm1-1. However, the root length of apm1-6 and apm1-13 is markedly shorter than that of ped1. This result confirmed the presence of other factors except the decrease of activity for β-oxidation in apm1 mutants, although we cannot exclude the possibility of the partial inhibition of activity for β-oxidation. In a normal atmosphere, apm1 mutants have different growth forms (Figure 6a–e). GFP-PTS1 and apm1-1 are indistinguishable morphologically (Figure 6a,b,e). In contrast, apm1-13 represents the dwarf phenotype (Figure 6c,e) and the phenotype of apm1-6 is more severe than that of apm1-13 (Figure 6d,e). As shown in Figure 2, aberrant peroxisomes are more abundant in apm1-6 than in apm1-1 and apm1-13. The extent of dwarfism is consistent with the frequency of appearance of long peroxisomes. The wild-type phenotype was recovered partially in apm1-6 and apm1-13 when these mutants were grown in the presence of high CO2 levels (1000 Pa CO2), in which case photorespiration is not required (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] We assumed that these effects were induced by the reduced activity of photorespiration. The reduction of photorespiration, which also needs peroxisomal and mitochondrial functions, represses plant growth. As activities for photorespiration in ped2 and stm mutants are reduced, they have yellow-green leaves and show dwarf phenotypes (CITATION; CITATION). Figure 6(f) shows the result of the measurement of the maximal quantum yield of photosystem II, which can be estimated from the ratio of the variable fluorescence of dark-adapted chlorophyll a to the maximum fluorescence (Fv/Fm; CITATION; CITATION). The Fv/Fm of the wild-type plants would not be expected to change under strong illumination, as photorespiration operates properly and photoinhibition is not induced. In an atmosphere containing high CO2 (1000 Pa) under low light (50 µE m−2 sec−1), which reduces the effect of photoinhibition, apm1 mutants and GFP-PTS1 had similar Fv/Fm values of approximately 0.86 (Figure 6f, 0 min). These plants were then transferred to a normal atmosphere (36 Pa CO2), where they were illuminated with a strong light (420 µE m−2 sec−1). Under these conditions, the Fv/Fm ratios of apm1-1 and apm1-13 were decreased as time passed. In case of apm1-9, apm1-20, and apm1-22, the values were as same as that of GFP-PTS1. However, the reduction of the Fv/Fm ratio of apm1-6 was more severe than those of another alleles, showing the reduction of activity for photorespiration in apm1 mutant. The apm1 mutation segregates as a monogenic recessive gene. We identified 24 apm1 alleles and determined that the APM1 encodes a dynamin-related protein that has been annotated as DRP3A (CITATION). The nucleotide sequences of the 24 alleles were identical except for single nucleotide substitutions (Figure 7a). Four alleles (apm1-2, apm1-9, apm1-11, and apm1-20) have nonsense mutations at the codons encoding 116Trp, 312Gln, and 727Gln, respectively, while 11 alleles (apm1-5, apm1-6, apm1-8, apm1-12, apm1-13, apm1-14, apm1-16, apm1-18, apm1-19, apm1-21, and apm1-24) have amino acid substitutions. In apm1-22, the deletion of 1983th nucleotide causes a frameshift and produces a stop codon in the seventh exon. Other alleles (apm1-1, apm1-3, apm1-4, apm1-7, apm1-10, apm1-15, apm1-17, and apm1-23) have the mutations at the splice sites. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that we had identified the correct gene, the APM1/DRP3A cDNA was expressed in an apm1-13 background under the control of constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter by in planta transformation (CITATION). Transgenic plants (apm1-13;35S:APM1) have normal peroxisomes (Figure 8a–d) and mitochondria (Figure 8d) as shown in GFP-PTS1 (Figure 4c,g,k), and the root lengths of independent transgenic lines were almost as long as that of GFP-PTS1 in case of germination on medium without sucrose (Figure 8e). These results demonstrate that APM1/DRP3A cDNA is able to restore wild-type morphology in homozygous apm1-13. The presence of several alleles with independent mutations in the APM1 and the finding that the wild-type morphology can be restored by the expression of the cDNA indicate that the gene we identified is APM1. [[FIGURE]] To identify the localization of APM1/DRP3A within cells, we carried out a transient expression analysis. The constructs of GFP-DRP3A or DRP3A-GFP were introduced into root cells of transgenic Arabidopsis, red fluorescent protein (RFP)-PTS1, whose peroxisomes were visualized with RFP, by particle bombardment. As shown in Figure 9(a), the signal from GFP-DRP3A is observed on the outside of RFP-labeled peroxisomes. We obtained the same results in the case of DRP3A-GFP. In addition, when these constructs were introduced into root cells of transgenic Arabidopsis, Mt-RFP, whose mitochondria were visualized with RFP, the interaction with GFP-DRP3A and mitochondria was observed (Figure 9b). This is in good agreement with the result by CITATION), indicating that APM1/DRP3A is able to interact with peroxisomes as well as mitochondria. [[FIGURE]] It has been reported that DRP3A is localized in chloroplasts, where it may be involved in vesicle formation in the chloroplast (CITATION). Therefore, we investigate the interaction with chloroplasts using the same constructs in the wild-type leaf cells. As shown in Figure 9(c), we did not observe any co-localization in GFP signal from GFP-DRP3A and the autofluorescence from chloroplasts. As shown in Figure 3, the morphology of chloroplasts was indistinguishable between GFP-PTS1 and the apm1 mutants. These results indicate that APM1/DRP3A is not localized in chloroplasts, and that it is not involved in the division of chloroplasts.
!~MM~! apm1 mutants and wild-type plants of Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) were grown as described previously by CITATION). Germination was induced by a 48-h incubation at 4°C followed by white light at 22°C. Seeds were surface sterilized in 2% NaClO plus 0.02% Triton X-100 and grown on germination media (2.3 µg ml−1 MS salts (Wako, Osaka, Japan), 1% sucrose, 100 µg ml−1 myo-inositol, 1 µg ml−1 thiamin-HCl, 0.5 µg ml−1 pyridoxine, 0.5 µg ml−1 nicotinic acid, 0.5 µg ml−1 MES-KOH (pH 5.7) and 0.8% agar (INA, Nagano Japan)). Tissues of GFP-PTS1 and apm1 were prepared and examined using an LSM510 laser-scanning confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss, Germany) as previously described by CITATION). To visualize mitochondria, GFP-PTS1 and apm1-13 plantlets were treated with a buffer containing 2% cellulase ‘Onozuka’ RS, 0.2% pectolyase Y-23, 0.5 m mannitol, and 10 mm MES-KOH (pH 5.5) for 30 min to isolate protoplasts. Subsequently, protoplasts were soaked in 0.5 µm MitoTracker Orange CM-H2TMRos (Molecular Probes Inc., the Netherlands) solution for 15 min and observed using a rhodamine filter set (excitation filter 534–558 nm). apm1-1 homozygotes, which were backcrossed three times with the parent plant GFP-PTS1 (ecotype Columbia), were crossed with another ecotype, Landsberg erecta. A total of 760 F2 progenies expressing mutant phenotypes were scored according to their genetic background, as revealed by a series of cleaved amplified polymorphic length (CAPS) and simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP) markers (CITATION; CITATION). Rough mapping revealed that the APM1 locus is located between the CBF1 and nga1139 markers on chromosome 4. For fine mapping, we made several sets of oligonucleotide primers for CAPS and SSLP markers according to the Cereon Genomics database (http://www.arabidopsis.org/Cereon/index.html). A marker on a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clone T16L1 is the one nearest to the APM1 locus. Examination of the nucleotide sequences in T16L1 in the Arabidopsis genome sequence project (http://www.arabidopsis.org/) identified a gene as a possible candidate. Based on this nucleotide sequence, we designated a set of oligonucleotide primers that could amplify the predicted gene by PCR. DNA fragments corresponding to this region were amplified from the genomic DNAs of GFP-PTS1 and 24 apm1 alleles using the same primer set, and were fully sequenced. Arabidopsis roots and leaves were harvested from GFP-PTS1 and apm1-13. Ultrathin sectioning, microscopic analysis, and immunogold labeling were performed as described previously by CITATION). To reduce the effect of photoinhibition, plants were grown for 26 days in an atmosphere containing 1000 Pa CO2 under low light (50 µE m−2 sec−1). These plants were then illuminated with strong light (420 µE m−2 sec−1) for 0, 60, 120, 180, and 240 min in a normal atmosphere (36 Pa CO2). After the end of each illumination period, plants were kept for 30 min in the dark. The ratio of Fv/Fm was automatically calculated from the result of the modulated chlorophyll fluorescence emission from the upper surface of dark-adapted leaves, which was measured using a pulse amplitude modulation fluorometer (Mini-PAM; H. Walz, Effeltrich, Germany). The constructs of GFP-DRP3A and DRP3A-GFP fusion genes, which were kindly provided by Drs Tsutsumi and Arimura (University of Tokyo), were introduced into root cells from transgenic Arabidopsis, RFP-PTS1, Mt-RFP, or leaf cells from wild-type Arabidopsis, using a particle delivery system according to the manufacturer's instruction (PDS-1000/He, Bio-Rad, Japan). The conditions of bombardment were a vacuum of 28 in. of Hg, helium pressure of 1350 psi, and 12 cm of target distance using 1.6-µm gold particles. After bombardment, tissues were incubated on the MS plates for 18 h for 22°C and observed under a confocal laser scanning microscope.
