!~ABS~! Arabidopsis trichomes are unicellular, branched structures that have highly constrained requirements for the cytoskeleton. The ‘distorted group’ genes function downstream from microtubule-based branch initiation, and are required during the actin-dependent phase of polarized stalk and branch expansion. Of the eight known ‘distorted group’ genes, a subset encode homologs of ARP2/3 complex subunits. In eukaryotic cells, the seven-protein ARP2/3 complex nucleates actin filament networks that push on the plasma membrane and organelles. In plants cells, the existence and function of an ARP2/3 complex is unclear. In this paper, we report that DISTORTED2 (DIS2) encodes a paralogue of the ARP2/3 complex subunit ARPC2. DIS2 has ARPC2 activity, based on its ability to rescue the growth defects of arpc2 (arc35Δ) null yeast cells. Like known ARPC2s, DIS2 physically interacts with ARPC4. Mutations in DIS2 cause a distorted trichome phenotype, defects in cell–cell adhesion, and a modest reduction in shoot FW. The actin cytoskeleton in dis2 trichomes is extensive, but developing branches fail to generate and maintain highly organized cytoplasmic actin bundles.
!~RES~! All ‘distorted group’ mutants identified to date have trichomes that are similar to the wild type (Figure 1a) until after branch formation occurs (stage 4). In addition to the known dis2-1 allele (CITATION), we isolated two new recessive alleles in the Columbia (Col-0) background. The new dis2 alleles displayed stage-specific swelling and reduced branch length that was indistinguishable from dis2-1 (Figure 1b–f). The terminal phenotype of the dis2-1 trichomes was variable, and included comparable numbers of cells with one highly polarized branch (Figure 1c), an abnormally expanded interbranch zone, which is defined as the stalk-like region of the cell that spans the branch attachment points (Figure 1d), and cells with three abortive branches positioned at the apical region of the cell (Figure 1e). Some trichomes were abnormally swollen at multiple locations (Figure 1f). [[FIGURE]] Each of the dis2 mutations caused cell–cell adhesion defects. Hypocotyl and pavement cell adhesion defects also occur in dis1, wrm, and crk (CITATION; Mathur et al., 2003a,b). Wild-type cotyledon epidermal pavement cells have an intricate lobed morphology that interdigitate smoothly with neighboring cells (Figure 1g). In the wild type, clear gaps between adjacent cells were extremely rare under any growth condition. The lobed morphology of dis2 pavement cells was noticeably different from that of the wild type; however, gaps between adjacent cells were observed consistently (Figure 1h). The cotyledon epidermal adhesion defects of dis2 plants were more severe when the plants were grown in vitro (data not shown), probably because of increased viability or tolerance of cell adhesion defects when the plants were grown at 100% humidity. Hypocotyl length of light-grown dis2 mutants did not differ significantly from that of the wild type (data not shown). However, the mean hypocotyl length of dis2-1 (6.1 ± 0.8 mm; n = 8) etiolated seedlings was less than half of the mean length of the wild type (15 ± 0.8 mm; n = 8). Hypocotyl epidermal cells in dis2-1 etiolated seedlings had defective cell–cell adhesion relative to the wild type (Supplementary Material; Figure S1). The relationship between the actin cytoskeleton and end-to-end cell adhesion has been examined in detail by CITATION). Although the whole plant architecture of each of the dis2 alleles was indistinguishable from that of the wild type (Figure 1i,j), FW measurements taken from segregating populations consistently revealed a trend of reduced FW in dis2-1 and dis2-2 plants. In one experiment, dis2-1 (112 ± 3 mg, n = 5) plants weighed approximately 15% less than the wild type (131 mg ± 20, n = 6) segregants from the same F2 population. As a standard for comparison, dis1 plants weigh approximately 35% less than wild-type controls (CITATION). Root hair and pollen tube growth have strict requirements for the actin cytoskeleton (CITATION; CITATION). Neither root hair morphogenesis nor the fertility of dis2 plants was dramatically affected, suggesting that neither of these cell types had strict requirements for DIS2 function. In order to clone the DIS2 gene, we generated a mapping population by crossing dis2-1 (Landsberg erecta (Ler)) to Col-0. Consistent with its published position on the classical genetic map, dis2-1 mapped to within approximately 1 cM of marker S0392 on chromosome 1 (Figure 2a). Genotyping of the recombinant chromosomes with the marker UFO positioned DIS2 south of S0392. We sequenced the ATARPC2A gene that was located near the predicted location of DIS2. dis2-1 had a G to A transition at the conserved splice donor sequence following exon 5 (Figure 2b). The dis2-1 mutation caused the accumulation of two mis-spliced transcripts (Figure 2c, lane 3). The unspliced dis2-1 transcript (dis2-1U) retained intron 4, but efficiently spliced the other introns. dis2-1U encoded 188 amino acids of DIS2, and then three nonsense amino acids, before a stop codon was encountered. The spliced dis2-1 transcript (dis2-1S) was generated by aberrant splicing in which the splice donor of exon 4 and the splice acceptor of exon 6 were used, resulting in the removal of exon 5 and the predicted deletion of amino acids 166–191. The dis2-2 and dis2-3 alleles both contained G to A transitions at base pairs +1571 and +1572, respectively. (The numbering is relative to the experimentally supported transcription start site that can be viewed using seqviewer for AT1G30825 at http://www.arabidopsis.org). Both alleles changed the same UGG codon to two different stop codons (W252*). The failure of dis2-2 and dis2-3 to complement dis2-1 in crosses, the allele sequencing results, and the measured defects in dis2-1 mRNA processing provide very strong evidence that DIS2 corresponded to the ATARPC2A gene. As additional proof for gene identity, we rescued the dis2 phenotype by overexpressing the DIS2 cDNA using the strong 35S viral promoter. Fifteen of 15 transformed dis2 plants that carried the overexpression transgene displayed a wild-type trichome morphology (data not shown). For the remainder of this paper, ATARPC2A will be referred to as DIS2. [[FIGURE]] A full-length DIS2 cDNA clone (GenBank Accession: AK118475) was publicly available (CITATION). We confirmed the sequence of the DIS2 full-length clone and used two expressed sequence tag (EST) sequences containing the DIS2 5′ untranslated region (UTR) and three ESTs containing the 3′ UTR to generate the gene model shown in Figure 2. The DIS2 cDNA contained a single open-reading frame that encoded a predicted 36-kDa polypeptide of 318 amino acids (Figure 3). The putative ARPC2 orthologs from plant, insect, nematode, and vertebrate species shared approximately 30% identity with S. cerevisiae ARPC2. The homology with S. cerevisiae ARPC2 was higher in the C-terminal 120 amino acids, with each of the ARPC2-encoding genes sharing between 37–40% identity in this region. [[FIGURE]] DIS2 is not the only ARPC2-like gene in Arabidopsis (CITATION). blastp database searches using the deduced ARPC2 amino acid sequences from a variety of species consistently identified a second ARPC2-like gene in Arabidopsis (ATARPC2B) and rice (OSARPC2B). The ARPC2B proteins had a slightly lower level of amino acid identity with other ARPC2s because of a C-terminal extension of approximately 60 amino acids (relative to vertebrate ARPC2) (Figure 3). The C-terminal extension of OSARPC2B and ATARPC2B was very basic, with more than 30% of the residues consisting of either lysine (K) or arginine (R). A more conventional rice ARPC2-like protein (OSARPC2A) that lacked the basic C-terminal extension was also predicted from the rice genome sequence (Figure 3). The evolutionary relationships between rice and Arabidopsis ARPC2-like genes were examined more closely by aligning the plant sequences with ARPC2s from diverse species. The manually edited clustalw alignment shown in Figure 3 was used as an input to generate an unrooted phylogenetic tree using parsimony (Supplementary Material, Figure S2). Bootstrapping analysis strongly supported the phylogenetic model in which the Arabidopsis and rice ARPC2A and ARPC2B genes form separate clades. We next used yeast mutant rescue experiments and the yeast two-hybrid assay to test for functional similarities between DIS2 and known ARPC2s. S. cerevisiae cells that are null for ARPC2 (arc35Δ) are slow growing, and the cells fail to separate normally following cytokinesis (CITATION). Overexpression of DIS2 in arc35Δ cells using a galactose-inducible promoter rescued both phenotypes (Figure 4a). The rescue required the wild-type DIS2 coding sequences because neither the overexpression of dis2-1S nor an empty vector control had significant activity (Figure 4a). The known physical interaction between ARPC2 and ARPC4 (CITATION; CITATION) also occurred between DIS2 and ATARPC4 in a yeast two-hybrid assay (Figure 4b). Strains that harbored both the ATARPC4 as bait and DIS2 as prey grew on His− plates and activated the β-Gal reporter gene (Figure 4b). Experiments that paired either pDS32-ARPC4 or pDS22-DIS2 with empty vector controls demonstrated that both DIS2 and ATARPC4 coding sequences are needed to activate the reporter genes. The dis2-1 transcripts encode a truncated protein (dis2-1U) and one that deletes 26 amino acids from the middle of the sequence (dis2-1S). In Western blots of yeast extracts, the dis2-1U fusion protein was unstable, but the accumulation of dis2-1S and DIS2 fusion proteins was not significantly different (data not shown). In the two-hybrid assay, dis2-1S interacted weakly with ATARPC4, and activated the β-Gal approximately sixfold less than the wild-type protein. [[FIGURE]] We wanted to determine whether DIS2, ATARPC2B, and ATARPC4 had similar expression patterns. The ARP2/3 subunit-like genes are expressed in all major organs with the highest level of expression in inflorescences (CITATION). We also analyzed DIS1 (ARP3) and WRM (ARP2) expression to compare our results with published data. The threshold for detection of each transcript using reverse transcriptase-PCR (RT-PCR) for each primer pair was 18 or 19 PCR cycles, and the data shown in Figure 5 was generated using 20-cycle reactions. Amplification of the glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPC) was used as a control for the amount of input cDNA for each PCR reaction. Controls lacking RT were conducted on all RNA samples to demonstrate the absence of contaminating DNA. The result of a seedling control experiment lacking RT is shown in Figure 5, lane 1. WRM, DIS1, DIS2, and ATARPCB were expressed in roots hypocotyls, cotyledons, leaves, stems, inflorescences, and flowers. The relative expression levels of each ARP2/3 subunit-like gene in cotyledons were the same at 5 and 15 days after germination (DAG), and in leaves at different developmental stages (data not shown). Consistent with the results of CITATION), the relative expression levels for each of the ARP2/3 complex subunit-like genes were highest in inflorescences. The level of DIS2 and ATARPC2B expression was lower than the other subunit-like genes (Figure 5c,d). ATARPC4 was expressed at high levels in most of the organs, but like CRK (ARPC5) and ATARPC3 (CITATION), it was expressed at higher levels in stems relative to leaves (Figure 5e). Other ARP2/3 subunit genes are expressed at the lowest level in stems (Figure 5a–c). [[FIGURE]] In order to test for an effect of dis2 on the actin cytoskeleton, we focused our efforts on localizing the actin cytoskeleton at the onset of the mutant phenotype immediately following branch initiation (stage 4). The images in Figures 6–8 reflect consistently observed actin localization patterns obtained using Alexa-488 phalloidin, which yields results similar to those of freeze shattering and antibody labeling (CITATION). There are no published images of actin filaments in stage 4 trichomes using GFP:talin, and in our hands, this probe does not label actin in stage 4 or younger cells (D. Szymanski and J. Le, unpublished results). Phalloidin-labeled wild-type stage 4 cells contained both a cortical meshwork of actin filaments and a population of longitudinally oriented bundles in the central region of the branch cytoplasm (Figure 6a). Many of the core cytoplasmic actin bundles converge at specific locations in the cell and terminate cleanly (Figure 6b). Similarly staged dis2-1 cells contained a cortical actin meshwork and a population of bundles deeper in the cytoplasm (Figure 6c,d). Although dis2-1 branches frequently contained a few longitudinally oriented bundles in the core cytoplasm that extended toward the branch tip, the vast majority were oriented randomly and terminated at various locations in the branch and stalk (Figure 6d). Similar disorganization of cytoplasmic bundles was observed in stage 4 dis2-2 trichomes (data not shown), and in stage 4 dis1 and grl trichomes (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We next tested dis2-1 for a difference in the relative amount of actin filaments in the core cytoplasm in stage 3/4 and stage 4/5 branches. For these measurements, it is important to exclude highly expanded, late stage 5 and stage 6 mutant cells with abortive branches. Therefore, in addition to branch length criteria, we limited our analysis of dis2-1 trichomes to cells with a cell height less than 40 µm. Given the frequent abnormal expansion of the stalk in dis2, this value is comparable to the threshold of approximately 25 µm that distinguishes the height of stage 4 and stage 5 wild-type cells (Figure 1 in CITATION). Because of cell to cell variation in the efficiency of actin filament labeling, the total integrated intensity of the cytoplasmic actin filament signal was used as an internal control. The phalloidin signal was dependent on actin filaments because cells treated with high concentrations of the actin filament-depolymerizing drug latrunculin B had background levels of fluorescence. The ratio of the integrated intensity of actin filaments in the core cytoplasm to that of the total cross-sectional area was calculated for dis2-1 and wild-type branches. Although the mutant cells had a cell-swelling phenotype, we did not detect a difference between dis2-1 and the wild type in stage 3/4 branches (Figure 7a). In stage 4/5 dis2-1 branches, the relative amount of core actin filaments was significantly reduced compared to the wild type (Figure 7a). Representative images of the longitudinal and transverse views of the input data for the wild type (Figure 7b,c) and dis2-1 (Figure 7d,e) are shown. Stage 5 wild-type trichomes have highly elongated branches with a pointed tip morphology. Wild-type trichomes at this stage had extensive cortical and cytoplasmic actin cytoskeletons that were loosely aligned with the long axis of the stalks and branches (Figure 8a–c). Similarly staged dis2-1 trichomes had a more randomly oriented cortical actin cytoskeleton, and the severity of the disorganization correlated with the extent of swelling for a particular cell (Figure 8d). We consistently observed dense populations of actin filaments and/or fine bundles in the cytoplasm of dis1 (D. Szymanski and J. Lie unpublished results) and dis2-1 trichomes (Figure 8e,f). The dis2 vacuoles are highly convoluted compared to the wild type (D. Szymanski and J. Le, unpublished results). Therefore, the cytoplasmic networks of actin filaments in late-stage ‘distorted group’ trichomes may reflect an altered vacuole shape (CITATION) rather than the direct effect of the mutation. The abnormal random organization of cortical actin filaments and the intricate arrays of trans-vacuolar filaments persisted in the stalks of swollen stage 6 dis2-1 trichomes relative to similarly staged wild-type cells (Figure 8g–l). High-magnification images of cytoplasmic bundles in dis2 stage 5 (Figure 8f) and stage 6 (Figure 8l) trichomes failed to detect increased filament bundling compared to the wild type. These localization patterns differ from the highly bundled arrangement of filaments that has been observed in late-stage distorted trichomes using GFP-talin as a probe (CITATION; Mathur et al., 2003a,b).
!~MM~! dis2-1 (Ler) was obtained from the Arabidopsis stock center and out-crossed to Col-0 five times prior to use. dis2-2 and dis2-3 were recovered from a methane sulfonic acid, ethyl ester (EMS)-mutagenized Col-0 population using standard protocols (this study). Allelism tests were performed using dis2-1 as the common parent. For SEM and FW measurement, seedlings were grown on soil under continuous illumination (110 µmol) at 25°C. For localization experiments, plants were grown in vitro on 0.5× MS plates at 24°C under continuous illumination (120 µmol). To generate PCR products for the DIS2 sequencing, we used two pairs of primers (DIS2_F1/DIS2_R4 and DIS2_F4/DIS2_R1). The DIS2 coding region was sequenced using eight forward primers (DIS2-F1 to DIS2-F8) and eight reverse primers (DIS2-R1 to DIS2-R8). The DIS2 templates and primer sequences are in Supplementary Material (Figure S3). The dis2-1 (Ler) genomic DNA sequence was compared with the sequence of the ATARPC2 gene that was sequenced in the wild-type Ler background. DNA sequencing was performed using the Bigdye mix (PE Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA), and unincorporated nucleotides were removed with Centriflex TM gel filtration cartridge (Edge Biosystems, Gaithersburg, MD, USA). Sequencing reactions were analyzed at the Purdue Genomics Center. To generate the DIS2 overexpression construct for rescue experiments, pEN-DIS2 was recombined into the binary Gateway 35S viral expression vector pGWB2 (a gift from Tsuyoshi Nakagawa, Research Institute of Molecular Genetics, Shimane University, Japan) to yield pGWB2-DIS2. pGWB2-DIS2 was used to transform dis2-1 using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Phenotypic rescue was observed in T1 seedlings, and the rescue activity segregated in T2 populations. Total RNA for RT-PCR was isolated using the RNeasy plant mini kit from Qiagen (Chatsworth, CA, USA). All RNA extractions and RT-PCR analyses were repeated at least two times. Five micrograms of total RNA was treated with 5 units of RQ1 RNase-Free DNase (Promega, Madison, WI, USA). For the first-strand 25-µl cDNA synthesis reactions, total RNA was annealed with random hexanucleotides (20 ng µl−1; New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA, USA), and then reverse transcribed with 200 units of M-MLV RT (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). Thereafter, 1/25 volume of the cDNA was used as a template for PCR. To analyze the effects of the dis2 alleles, we used C2A-F primer (5′-CTGTGACAGAGAATGTCGGTCGT-3′), and C2A-R primer (5′-AAAATACATGTCTCAGCTAATCACAAG-3′). To analyze the expression of some of the Arabidopsis ARP2/3 subunit genes in different tissues, we isolated organs from five DAG seedlings, 15 DAG seedlings, stems, inflorescences, and flowers from Col-0 plants. Gene names, primer sequences, and product sizes are listed in the Supplementary Material (Figure S4). ARPC2 amino acid sequences from Arabidopsis DIS2 (GenBank Accession: BT005308), ATARPC2B (GenBank Accession: NM_179877), Oryza sativa OSARPC2A (GenBank Accession: AP003709), OSARPC2B (GenBank Accession: CAE03390), Bos taurus BTARPC2 (GenBank Accession: 1K8K_D), Drosophila melanogaster DMARPC2 (GenBank Accession: NP_610033), C. elegans CEARPC2 (GenBank Accession: NP_741088), and S. cerevisiae SCARPC2 (GenBank Accession: NP_014433) were aligned using clustalw. In clustalw, the gap-opening and gap-extension penalties were set at 0.20 and 12, respectively, and the alignment was refined manually. A maximum parsimony tree was constructed using Phylogenetic Analysis Using Parsimony (paup), version 4.0, using Bootstrap as a re-sampling method. The number of bootstrapping pseudoreplicates was 1000 using the branch-and-bound search. The S. cerevisiae Arc35 deletion obtained from Resgen (Invitrogen) was sporulated to generate the haploid arc35Δ strain. The 957-bp DIS2 coding region and the dis2-1S cDNA that deleted amino acids 166–191 were amplified from cDNA using primers 5′-CACCATAATGATACTATTGCAGTCACATTC-3′ and 5′-CTACTTCGAGTTGGTGTGATTGACCTCG-3′ and cloned into the pENTR/D/TOPO vector (Invitrogen) to generate pEN-DIS2 and pEN-dis2-1S. These clones were sequenced, and then recombined into the yeast galactose-inducible vector pYES-DEST52 (Invitrogen), yielding pDS52-DIS2 and pDS52-dis2-1S. These constructs were then transformed into arc35Δ using the lithium acetate method (CITATION). The 507-bp ATARPC4 cDNA was amplified using primers 5′-CACCGCAAACTCATTACGGCTGTATC-3′ and 5′-TTACATGAACTGTTTCAAGAAC-3′ and cloned into pENTR/D/TOPO vector (Invitrogen) to generate pEN-ARPC4. This clone was then sequenced and recombined into the yeast two-hybrid vector pDEST32 to generate pDS32-ARPC4 (bait). pEN-DIS2 and pEN-dis2-1S were cloned in-frame into the yeast two-hybrid vector pDEST22 to generate pDS22-DIS2 (prey) and pDS22-dis2-1S (prey), which were co-transformed with pDS32-ARPC4 into S. cerevisiae Y190 strain. The transformants were selected on Leu− Trp− medium. Two-hybrid interaction was determined by colony formation on Leu− Trp− His− medium using HIS3 reporter gene. For each set of constructs, liquid β-galactosidase assays were performed in triplicate from three independent colonies using standard protocols (CITATION). F-actin localization and quantification methods were similar to those described by CITATION). Tissues were fixed at room temperature in 2% formaldehyde in 100 mm piperazine-N,N′-bis-[2-ethane sulfonic acid] (PIPES)-KOH, pH 6.9, 5 mm EGTA, 4 mm MgCl2 (PEM) for 30 min. After two washes with PEM, the tissues were incubated in PEM containing 1% glycerol and 0.2 µm Alexa Fluor® 488 phalloidin (Molecular Probes Inc., Eugene, OR, USA) overnight at 4°C. Images were collected using an MRC Bio-Rad 2100 confocal microscope with a Nikon 60× Plan Apo (numerical aperature (NA) 1.2) water immersion objective. Images were processed and analyzed using metamorph (Universal Imaging Corp., Downingtown, PA, USA) or imagej (available at web site of http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij) software. The relative amount of core cytoplasmic actin filaments to total actin filaments in developing trichomes was measured at different developmental stages. Branches between 10 and 15 µm in length were defined as stage 3/4 and those between 16 µm and 50 µm in length were defined as stage 4/5. Trichomes greater than 40 µm in height were not used in the assay. Image stacks of branches with the long axis parallel to the XY plane were rotated to a direction parallel to the X- or Y-axis. Orthogonal views (YZ or XZ) were generated using metamorph software. The position of the middle orthogonal plane of each branch was defined at one-half of the total branch length (0.5L). For each branch, transverse sections 1.3 µm distal and proximal from the 0.5L plane were quantified. A 2.5-µm-wide band inside the plasma membrane of each transverse section was defined as ‘cortical’ cytoplasm. Cytoplasmic space not included within the outer 2.5-µm band was defined as ‘core’ cytoplasm (see Figure 7). Whole cytoplasmic space was the ‘core’ plus ‘cortical’. Total integrated fluorescence intensity was measured within the core and whole cytoplasmic space, and the ratio of core to whole cytoplasmic signal was calculated for each transverse optical section. Between 15 and 30 planes were measured individually, and then averaged, for each branch. The ratios reported in Figure 7 were averaged from 5 to 10 branches.
