!~ABS~! Arabidopsis thaliana has eight genes encoding members of the type 1B heavy metal–transporting subfamily of the P-type ATPases. Three of these transporters, HMA2, HMA3, and HMA4, are closely related to each other and are most similar in sequence to the divalent heavy metal cation transporters of prokaryotes. To determine the function of these transporters in metal homeostasis, we have identified and characterized mutants affected in each. Whereas the individual mutants exhibited no apparent phenotype, hma2 hma4 double mutants had a nutritional deficiency phenotype that could be compensated for by increasing the level of Zn, but not Cu or Co, in the growth medium. Levels of Zn, but not other essential elements, in the shoot tissues of a hma2 hma4 double mutant and, to a lesser extent, of a hma4 single mutant were decreased compared with the wild type. Together, these observations indicate a primary role for HMA2 and HMA4 in essential Zn homeostasis. HMA2promoter- and HMA4promoter-reporter gene constructs provide evidence that HMA2 and HMA4 expression is predominantly in the vascular tissues of roots, stems, and leaves. In addition, expression of the genes in developing anthers was confirmed by RT-PCR and was consistent with a male-sterile phenotype in the double mutant. HMA2 appears to be localized to the plasma membrane, as indicated by protein gel blot analysis of membrane fractions using isoform-specific antibodies and by the visualization of an HMA2-green fluorescent protein fusion by confocal microscopy. These observations are consistent with a role for HMA2 and HMA4 in Zn translocation. hma2 and hma4 mutations both conferred increased sensitivity to Cd in a phytochelatin-deficient mutant background, suggesting that they may also influence Cd detoxification.
!~RES~! To investigate the function of the three closely related type 1B P-type ATPase genes, HMA2, HMA3, and HMA4, we have identified two independent mutant alleles for each gene. Using a reverse-genetic approach, we identified T-DNA insertion alleles in the Wassilewskija (Ws) ecotype. Five mutant alleles, hma2-1, hma2-2, hma2-3, hma3-1, and hma4-1, were identified for the three genes. Backcrosses to the wild type, Ws, indicated that the hma2-2 and hma3-1 lines contained a single T-DNA locus segregating in a Mendelian ratio. The hma2-1, hma2-3, and hma4-1 lines each contained the hma mutation and a second independently assorting T-DNA insertion. Lines containing only the hma insertion were identified after backcrosses to Ws. We have also obtained hma T-DNA insertion lines in the Columbia (Col) ecotype from the SALK collection: SALK_034393, referred to here as hma2-4, and SALK_050924, hma4-2. In backcrosses to the wild type, these mutants segregated for a single T-DNA. The positions of the T-DNA left border insertion sites are shown in Figure 1A and Table 1. RT-PCR on total RNA prepared from wild-type and mutant hma2-2, hma3-1, and hma4-1 plants was performed using HMA gene-specific primers that flanked the T-DNA insertion point. For each mutant, the gene-specific RT-PCR product corresponding to the mutated gene was absent, whereas a product was obtained for the two wild-type HMA genes in each mutant (Figure 1B) and for all three genes in the wild type, Ws, control (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] hma Mutant Alleles Identified in This Study Comparisons of database sequences of the HMA3 gene from the Col and Ws ecotypes also indicated that the HMA3 gene in Col contains a single base pair deletion that would result in a frame shift and subsequent truncation of the predicted gene product after amino acid 542. The truncated product would lack the conserved ATP binding site and is presumably nonfunctional. We have confirmed this polymorphism from both cDNA and genomic DNA in the Col and Ws ecotypes (Figure 1A). For the hma2 hma4 double mutants in the Ws background described below, we assume that HMA3 is functional, whereas in the Col background, the presence of the naturally occurring hma3 allele results in a triple mutant line. When grown in soil, none of the individual hma mutants exhibited an apparent phenotype in comparison with the wild type. This may be because of the transporters encoded by these genes having at least partially redundant functions in planta. Much of the Arabidopsis genome has been duplicated through evolution (CITATION), and there are examples where both members of a pair of genes must be mutated to observe a phenotype, thereby indicating overlapping functions. To investigate this possibility, double mutant lines were constructed. The hma mutants were crossed, and the F1 progeny were grown and allowed to self-fertilize. The genotypes of F2 individuals were scored by PCR for the absence of the wild-type alleles and then the presence of the gene-specific T-DNA insertions. In crosses between hma2 and hma4 mutants, a small proportion of F2 individuals had a chlorotic stunted phenotype. In a cross segregating for both hma2-2 and hma4-1, 18 individuals with the mutant phenotype were identified in 398 plants (χ2 = 2.3; P > 0.05 for a 1:15 segregation ratio), and all were homozygous for both mutations when genotyped by PCR. Similarly, in a cross between the independent SALK mutant lines hma2-4 and hma4-2 in the Col ecotype, 12 of 226 F2 individuals exhibited the same phenotype and were identified as homozygous double mutants (χ2 = 0.03; P > 0.8 for a 1:15 segregation ratio). A total of 76 individuals with a wild-type phenotype were also tested, and all contained a wild-type allele for one or both genes. Together, this demonstrates that the mutant phenotype results from homozygous mutations at both the hma2 and hma4 loci. Because the double mutants failed to grow and set seed, F2 individuals were identified that were homozygous for the hma4-1 T-DNA insertion but heterozygous for hma2-2. Progeny from these were grown in pots and segregated ∼25% chlorotic stunted individuals as expected (Figure 2A). These individuals were shown to be homozygous double mutants. By contrast, hma3-1 hma4-1 double mutant lines were indistinguishable from the wild type. For this reason, the hma2 and hma4 single mutants and the hma2 hma4 double mutant are the focus of the remainder of this study. [[FIGURE]] The phenotype of the hma2-2 hma4-1 double mutant is shown in Figure 2. During the early stages of development, the plants were smaller and chlorotic and often appeared to have necrotic patches in the leaves (Figure 2A). Most individuals eventually produced multiple short floral stalks that formed buds but then appeared to abort, resulting in increasingly bushy plants (Figure 2B). In some individuals, the floral stalks extended and developed inflorescences. These inflorescences were more compact than in the wild type because of shortened internodes (Figure 2C). Floral buds and floral organs developed normally, although the anthers produced no pollen (Figure 2D), and the flowers were sterile. The siliques of the double mutant contained no developing embryos and did not elongate and mature as in the wild type (Figure 2C). When mature flowers were cross-pollinated with pollen from a wild-type plant, a few (one to three) embryos formed in each silique but failed to develop into viable seed. This suggests that, in addition to the absence of pollen, there is either a defect in ovule development or, possibly, a failure of fertilized embryos to develop in a homozygous mutant background. The HMA transporters are most similar to the divalent heavy metal cation subclass of type 1B P-type ATPases. HMA4 confers increased resistance to Zn or Cd in E. coli or yeast (CITATION). Thus, we hypothesized that the growth deficiency of the double mutant resulted from Zn deficiency. To investigate this, progeny of a plant homozygous for hma4-1 and heterozygous for hma2-2 were planted in pots treated with a single application of standard mineral salts medium (which contains 1 μM Zn). After 21 d, stunted chlorotic individuals could be identified, and those with a wild-type phenotype were removed. The pots were then subirrigated at 3- to 4-d intervals with either water alone or water containing 0.1, 0.3, 1, or 3 mM ZnSO4. Where 0.1 and 0.3 mM Zn solution was applied, growth was increased although variable (data not shown). However, all plants (13) in the pots supplemented with 1 or 3 mM Zn were rescued, with vegetative growth and seed set similar to the wild type (Figure 3A). PCR analysis confirmed that the rescued plants were double homozygous mutants. Identical results were obtained for hma2-1 hma4-1 double mutants (data not shown). Together, this demonstrates that the growth defect of hma2 hma4 double mutants results from an extreme Zn deficiency that can be rescued by the application of excess Zn to the soil. Application of Co or Cu to soil was unable to rescue the phenotype (data not shown). The capacity of exogenous Zn application to rescue the growth and fertility of the double mutant allowed it to be maintained as a homozygous double mutant line. Subsequent experiments were performed on seed obtained from homozygous hma2-2 hma4-1 individuals. [[FIGURE]] A similar Zn-dependent phenotype was observed for plants grown in agar medium. In this case, the double mutant was indistinguishable from the wild type when grown on mineral salts medium containing 10 μM Zn. However, omitting the Zn from the medium resulted in a similar chlorotic phenotype for the hma2-2 hma4-1 double mutant but had no effect on the wild type (Figure 3B) or the single mutants (data not shown). The mutant phenotype could not be rescued by the addition of Cu to the medium. To measure the apparent Zn deficiency, hma2-2 and hma4-1 single mutants, the double mutant, and wild-type plants were grown on mineral salts agar medium from which Zn had been omitted or to which 10 μM Zn was added. The levels of Zn accumulated in shoot tissue were measured after 21 d (Figure 4A). In medium to which Zn was not added, the Zn content of the hma2-2 and hma4-1 single mutants did not differ significantly from the wild type, whereas in the hma2-2 hma4-1 double mutant, Zn levels were approximately twofold less than in the wild type and were below the threshold of 20 ppm believed to be required for normal growth (CITATION). In the presence of 10 μM Zn, the levels of Zn in all lines increased. The hma2-2 mutant was indistinguishable from the wild type, whereas the hma4-1 mutant and the double mutant accumulated approximately twofold and fourfold less Zn, respectively, than the wild type. In these same plants, Cu levels (Figure 4B) were not decreased compared with the wild type, and levels of Mg, Mn, Ca, and Fe were not significantly different from the wild type (data not shown), suggesting that the phenotype is attributable to Zn deficiency. [[FIGURE]] Wild-type and double mutant plants were also grown in soil with and without supplementation with 1 mM Zn. Levels of Zn in rosettes of the double mutant were twofold to threefold lower than in the wild type both with and without Zn supplementation (Figure 4C). Plants grown in soil supplemented with 1 mM Zn were allowed to bolt, and stems and inflorescences (but not rosettes) were harvested and measured for Zn content. Under these conditions, growth of the double mutant was indistinguishable from the wild type. Again, in the double mutant, levels of Zn were threefold to fourfold lower than the wild type (Figure 4D). Zn accumulation in roots was also examined in wild-type and double mutant plants grown in hydroponic conditions in medium from which Zn had been omitted (Zn < 0.1 μM). In these plants, the rosettes of the double mutant exhibited the characteristic Zn deficiency phenotype and accumulated approximately twofold less Zn than the wild type as expected (Figure 4E). By contrast, Zn accumulation in roots was approximately twofold higher in the double mutant, indicating that HMA2 and HMA4 are not involved in Zn uptake into roots. To visualize the cellular pattern of HMA2 and HMA4 expression in planta, promoter-β-glucuronidase (HMA2p-GUS and HMA4p-GUS) fusion constructs were expressed in transgenic Col plants. For both constructs, GUS expression was predominantly observed in the vascular tissue of roots, leaves, and stems (Figures 5A to 5H). In a section of stem expressing HMA2p-GUS, GUS activity was observed in vascular bundles and appeared to be expressed in components of both the xylem and the phloem (Figure 5W). In inflorescences, the expression of both constructs occurred in parallel and changed during floral development (Figures 5I to 5N and 5Q to 5V). In unopened flowers, GUS activity was observed in immature anthers where it was largely confined to the tapetum (Figures 5U and 5V and 5X to 5Z). GUS staining of pollen grains within the anthers was observed in unopened flowers (Figures 5Y and 5Z), although mature pollen did not show GUS activity (data not shown). In opened flowers and senescent flowers, GUS activity was mainly within the vascular tissue of mature anther filaments (Figures 5M, 5N, 5Q, and 5R) and at the base of the developing silique (Figures 5K to 5N). The main qualitative difference in expression of the two constructs was that HMA2p-GUS, but not HMA4p-GUS, expression was observed in the vascular tissue of mature siliques (Figures 5O and 5P). [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the expression of the promoter-GUS constructs in anthers reflected the expression of the endogenous genes, we measured HMA2 and HMA4 expression directly by RT-PCR. Expression in immature anthers excised from the filaments of unopened stage 12 flowers (CITATION) was compared with expression in the dehiscing anthers and filaments, separately, of mature opened flowers. Higher levels of both RT-PCR products were detected in immature anthers compared with mature anthers (Figure 6). Quantitation relative to the actin control revealed a 10- to 20-fold difference in expression (Figure 6). Expression of both HMA2 and HMA4 in mature filaments was also detected by RT-PCR. The pattern of expression in anthers observed using RT-PCR reflected that in the promoter-GUS transgenic plants. [[FIGURE]] Two different approaches were used to identify the subcellular location of HMA2. First, total membranes from plants were fractionated by aqueous two-phase partitioning, and the fractions were characterized by protein gel blot analysis probed with HMA2-specific antibodies. The specificity of the antibodies was confirmed by probing protein gel blots of microsomal proteins extracted from wild-type and hma2-3 mutant plants (Figure 7A). Aqueous two-phase partitioning preferentially partitions plasma membrane into the upper phase, and the other membranes, including endoplasmic reticulum (ER), Golgi, chloroplast membrane, and tonoplast, into the lower phase (CITATION). Figure 7B shows that HMA2 is enriched in the upper phase, as was a plasma membrane H+-ATPase marker, AHA2 (CITATION). Controls indicated that endomembranes were enriched in the lower phase, as shown using antibodies that recognized an ER membrane–located Ca2+-ATPase, ACA2 (CITATION), and the tonoplast-located γTIP (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To corroborate the plasma membrane localization, HMA2 was fused in frame with a green fluorescent protein (GFP) and expressed under the control of the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus in transgenic plants. The HMA2-GFP fusion protein was confirmed to be enriched in upper-phase plasma membrane fractions by protein gel blots probed with GFP-specific antibody and HMA2-specific antibody (Figure 7B). The subcellular location of the HMA2-GFP protein in root tip cells was visualized by confocal microscopy (Figures 8A and 8B). The pattern of fluorescence is consistent with the plasma membrane location indicated by membrane fractionation. In a control expressing GFP protein alone, fluorescence was observed within the nucleus and throughout the cytoplasm (Figure 8C), consistent with a previous report (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The single hma mutants were tested for altered sensitivity to Zn, Cd, and Co in agar medium, and no distinct phenotype was observed (data not shown). Because HMA4 is able to confer increased Cd resistance when expressed in yeast (CITATION), we wished to investigate a possible role for HMA2 and HMA4 in Cd resistance. In Arabidopsis, the major determinant of Cd detoxification is the phytochelatins (PCs), and cad1-3, PC synthase-deficient mutants lacking detectable PCs show an approximately 40-fold increase in Cd sensitivity (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, it was possible that a slight effect on Cd sensitivity mediated by the hma mutations may have been masked by the presence of PCs. To test this, hma2-1 and hma4-1 mutants were crossed with the cad1-3 mutant. Among F2 populations, individuals that exhibited the extreme Cd sensitivity of cad1-3 homozygotes were observed at a frequency of ∼25% (data not shown) and were subsequently screened by PCR to identify those homozygous for the hma T-DNA insertion. Progeny from these hma cad1-3 double mutant lines were then tested for sensitivity to Cd. The hma2-1 cad1-3 and hma4-1 cad1-3 mutants exhibited approximately twofold increased sensitivity to Cd compared with the cad1-3 mutant alone. In the presence of 0.15 μM Cd, growth of all three strains was inhibited to some extent, but inhibition of the hma cad1-3 lines was significantly greater than for the cad1-3 mutant alone (Figure 9). In the presence of 0.06 μM Cd, only the hma4-1 cad1-3 line was inhibited compared with cad1-3, and in the presence of 0.3 μM Cd, all three lines were equally inhibited. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown in agar and soil as described previously (CITATION). Plants were grown hydroponically according to CITATION, except that the nutrient solution consisted of one-quarter strength medium without Zn. The hma mutants in the Ws ecotype were identified in PCR screens of a collection of T-DNA–inserted kanamycin-resistant Arabidopsis lines (CITATION) using primers specific for sequences flanking the coding sequences of each of the HMA genes and a T-DNA left border–specific primer. All except hma2-3 were identified with the assistance of the Wisconsin Arabidopsis knockout service. Information about the hma mutants in the Col ecotype was obtained from the SIGnAL Web site at http://signal.salk.edu, and seed was obtained from ABRC (CITATION). The T-DNA insertion point was determined by nucleotide sequence analysis of the left border PCR fragment. The genotype of plants was determined by PCR using primers flanking the insertion point for the wild-type allele and a gene-specific and left border–specific primer pair for the insertion allele. For RT-PCR analysis of gene expression in the mutants, total RNA was isolated from 15-d-old plants. cDNA was synthesized using the Superscript first-strand synthesis system (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) and amplified using gene-specific primers that flanked the positions of the T-DNA inserts. Plant tissue was harvested, dried at 60°C for 3 d, and weighed and digested in 70% HNO3 overnight at room temperature and then at 80°C for 2 h. Hydroponically grown plants were rinsed in water, washed in 5 mM MES-Tris, pH 6.0, 5 mM CaCl2, and 10 mM EDTA for 15 min, blotted dry, and separated into roots and shoots before drying. Metal content was measured using inductively coupled plasma AES with a Vista-AX (Varian, Melbourne, Australia) instrument. The regions upstream of HMA4 and HMA2 from −5920 to +97 were amplified by PCR and digested at internal restriction sites. Fragments of HMA4 from −4765 to +164 (relative to the A of the predicted start codon) and of HMA2 from −5920 to +97 were cloned and subsequently ligated into pBI101 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) in fusion with the GUS-NOSt cassette. The promoter-GUS constructs were transformed into Col plants via the Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated floral dip method (CITATION). At least 14 independent homozygous transgenic lines for each construct were tested for GUS activity, and of these, >80% showed a consistent staining pattern. Two lines of each construct were selected for further analysis. The histochemical localization of GUS activity was performed according to the method adapted from CITATION. Sections (8 μm) were prepared for dark-field microscopy according to CITATION, except that staining was for 16 h. Under the conditions used, the blue product of the GUS reaction appears red. Six anthers from a single unopened (stage 12; CITATION) flower and anthers and filaments from a mature flower from a single wild-type Col plant were collected. Tissue was ground immediately using acid-washed sand, and RNA was extracted using an RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). cDNA was synthesized using a Sensiscript reverse transcriptase kit (Qiagen). PCR was performed with gene-specific primers using 10 μL of the cDNA product in a 50-μL reaction with 30 reaction cycles. In each case, primers were designed to span at least one intron to distinguish cDNA amplification products from genomic DNA contaminants. Two microliters of each reaction were electrophoresed on a 3-mm 1% agarose gel and stained with SYBR Green 1 (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Fluorescence was visualized using a Typhoon 9410 variable mode imager (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala, Sweden). Image analysis and quantitation was performed using ImageQuant Version 5.2 (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). The full-length open reading frame encoding HMA2 was fused to GFP in the vector p35S-GFP-JFH1 (CITATION) and expressed downstream from the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus and a tobacco etch virus translational enhancer (CITATION). Transgenic plants were generated by a vacuum-infiltration method using A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 (CITATION) and selected using 50 μM Basta (DL-Phosphinothricin; Sigma). For fluorescence confocal microscopy, plant root tips were excised from 4-week-old plants grown on Gamborg's B5 agar medium and treated with Slowfade-antifade reagent in PBS buffer (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR). Images were collected by using a confocal laser-scanning microscope (Olympus Fluoview; Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) attached to an inverted microscope (Olympus 1X70) equipped with a fluorescein filter. The thickness of the optical section was 0.5 μm. A DNA fragment encoding the C-terminal 251 amino acid residues of HMA2 (HMA2-C) was fused to glutathione S-transferase in the expression vector pGEX-KG (CITATION) and to the maltose binding protein in expression vector pMAL-CR1 (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA). Both fusion proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli and purified using corresponding affinity columns. The glutathione S-transferase-HMA2-C fusion protein was used to immunize rabbits, and a polyclonal antiserum was obtained. Maltose binding protein-HMA2-C was cross-linked to a cyanogen bromide activated Sepharose 4B matrix (Pharmacia Biotech, Piscataway, NJ) according to the manufacturer's instructions and was used to affinity purify anti-HMA2-C–specific antibodies from the antiserum. The specificity of the antibodies was confirmed by probing protein gel blots of microsomal proteins extracted from wild-type and hma2-3 mutant plants. No proteins were bound by the antibody in protein gel blots of extracts from the hma2-3 mutant (Figure 7A). Microsomal membranes were purified and fractionated by aqueous two-phase partitioning using the method of CITATION. For protein gel blot analysis, proteins were electrophoresed by SDS-PAGE, transferred to nitrocellulose membranes, blocked for at least 6 h in TBS-T (Tris-buffered saline and 0.2% [v/v] Tween 20) buffer with 5% nonfat dry milk, and incubated for 2 to 4 h with primary antisera diluted in TBS-T buffer with 2% dry milk (anti-HMA2-C at 1:250; anti-ACA2 at 1:2000 [CITATION]; anti-AHA2 at 1:5000 [CITATION]; anti-γTIP at 1:500 [provided by M. Chrispeels]; and GFP antibody at 1:50 (Clonetech, San Fransisco, CA). The secondary antibody was a donkey anti-rabbit IgG conjugated with horseradish peroxidase (Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK) used at 1:4000 dilution in TBS-T with 2% nonfat dry milk and was detected by enhanced chemiluminescence (Amersham) or Supersignal-West Dura extended duration substrate (Pierce, Rockford, IL). The Arabidopsis Information Resource locus identifiers are as follows: HMA2, At4g30110; HMA3, At4g30120; HMA4, At2g19110. Sequence data (for cDNA sequences) from this article have been deposited in the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under the following accession numbers: AV554840, AtHMA4 cDNA Col ecotype; AY434728, AtHMA2 cDNA Col ecotype; AY434729, AtHMA3 cDNA Ws ecotype; AY434730, AtHMA3 cDNA Col ecotype. The accession numbers for insertion mutants are as follows: hma2-4, SALK_034393; hma4-2, SALK_050924.
