!~ABS~! Ethylene gas is used as a hormone by plants, in which it acts as a critical growth regulator. Its synthesis is also rapidly evoked in response to a variety of biotic and abiotic stresses (CITATION) . The Arabidopsis ethylene-overproducer mutants eto2 and eto3 have previously been identified as having mutations in two genes, ACS5 and ACS9, respectively; these encode isozymes of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid synthase (ACS), which catalyse the rate-limiting step in ethylene biosynthesis (CITATION) . Here we report that another ethylene-overproducer mutation, eto1, is in a gene that negatively regulates ACS activity and ethylene production. The ETO1 protein directly interacts with and inhibits the enzyme activity of full-length ACS5 but not of a truncated form of the enzyme, resulting in a marked accumulation of ACS5 protein and ethylene. Overexpression of ETO1 inhibited induction of ethylene production by the plant growth regulator cytokinin, and promoted ACS5 degradation by a proteasome-dependent pathway. ETO1 also interacts with CUL3, a constituent of ubiquitin ligase complexes in which we propose that ETO1 serves as a substrate-specific adaptor protein. ETO1 thus has a dual mechanism, inhibiting ACS enzyme activity and targeting it for protein degradation. This permits rapid modulation of the concentration of ethylene.
!~RES~! Rapid synthesis of ethylene gas as a stress signal is an important adaptation for sessile organisms such as plants, which cannot escape from surrounding environmental assaults. The synthesis of ethylene consists of a few fairly simple, yet highly regulated, steps. The committed and rate-limiting step of ethylene biosynthesis is the conversion of S-adenosylmethionine to 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) by ACS (ref. 5). ACC is converted to ethylene by ACC oxidase (ACO). Both ACS and ACO are encoded by multigene families in all plant species, and their patterns of RNA expression are complex as a result of differential gene regulation. Although the biosynthetic pathway has been studied for many decades, the molecular mechanism of how ethylene biosynthesis is regulated is unclear. In some cases, ethylene production is correlated with increased transcription of ACS genes (CITATION) . However, more recent studies have raised a possible role for post-transcriptional regulation as a new mechanism of controlling rapid ethylene synthesis (CITATION) . The molecular basis of post-transcriptional regulation is unknown. Recessive mutations in ETO1 result in a nearly tenfold overproduction of ethylene over the wild type and a constitutive triple response (Ctr-) phenotype in etiolated seedlings even in the absence of exogenous ethylene, indicating that ETO1 might have a negative role in ethylene synthesis (CITATION) . In contrast, eto2-1 and eto3-1 are dominant mutations with alterations at the carboxy termini of ACS5 and ACS9, respectively (CITATION) . To further understand ETO1 function in the ethylene biosynthesis pathway, we isolated the ETO1 gene by using a map-based cloning strategy (Fig. 1a). We found DNA sequence alterations that would result in nonsense or missense mutations in a predicted open reading frame, At3g51770, in all alleles of eto1 examined, strongly indicating that this gene is responsible for the eto1 mutation (Fig. 1a). The full-length complementary DNA of At3g51770 contains an open reading frame encoding a protein of 951 amino acids. A genetic complementation experiment by overexpression of the At3g51770 cDNA in eto1-4 restored the wild-type phenotype and further confirmed that the gene annotated as At3g51770 is ETO1 (Fig. 1b). ETO1 encodes a member of a novel protein family present in the plant kingdom, which contains a BTB (Broad-complex, Tramtrack, Bric-à-brac) domain in the amino terminus and six predicted TPR (Tetratricopeptide repeat) motifs together with a coiled-coil motif in the C terminus (Fig. 1c, d). The TPR motif, a highly degenerate 34-amino-acid peptide with amphipathic α-helices, is involved in protein–protein interactions for many proteins of diverse functions and can serve as a scaffold for the assembly of multiprotein complexes (CITATION) . The BTB domain is also defined as a module for protein–protein interactions (CITATION) . We also cloned two paralogues of ETO1 in Arabidopsis that we named EOL1 (At4g02680) and EOL2 (At5g58550) (ETO1-LIKE). Both the arrangement of the BTB and TPR motifs and the key residues within the motifs are highly conserved in the ETO1 protein family (Supplementary Fig. 1). We did not find any orthologous sequences outside the plant kingdom. [[FIGURE]] By an epistasis analysis, we and others have shown that ACS5 acts downstream of ETO1 (ref. 4, and Supplementary Information). We next examined whether ETO1 and ACS5 interact physically with each other. All members in the ETO1 family interacted specifically with ACS5 in the yeast two-hybrid assay (Fig. 2a). A truncated form of ACS5 (tACS5), with a deletion of 12 residues of the C terminus that mimics the eto2-1 allele of ACS5, was unable to interact with ETO1 (Fig. 2b). An in vitro pull-down assay was subsequently used to verify the direct interaction between ETO1 and ACS5, but, again, an interaction with tACS5 was not detected (Fig. 2c). Because the mutation in eto1-1 resulted in a complete truncation of the last TPR motif (Fig. 1a), we tested whether disruption of a single helix structure in the TPR motif would affect the interaction between ETO1 and ACS5. A deletion of 25 residues from the C terminus of ETO1 (tETO1) that truncated the last predicted TPR motif resulted in the loss of interaction with ACS5 in the yeast two-hybrid assay (Fig. 2b). To confirm the direct interaction between ETO1 and ACS5 in plant cells, we used Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells to co-express ETO1 and ACS5 fusion proteins transiently, followed by a co-immunoprecipitation experiment. Whereas the negative control showed that ETO1 was not immunoprecipitated in the absence of ACS5 or tACS5 fusion protein, ETO1 was pulled down by ACS5 and, to a smaller extent, by tACS5 (Fig. 2d), showing that ETO1 and ACS5 interact in planta. Taken together, these results reveal that ETO1, and possibly also EOL1 and EOL2, associate directly with ACS5 in plant cells and their interaction is dependent on the C terminus of ACS5. These results also suggest that the dominant phenotype of eto2-1 is due to the inability of ETO1 to interact with mutant ACS5eto2. [[FIGURE]] To address whether ETO1 is a direct inhibitor of ACS5, we measured the activity of ACS5 in the presence of ETO1 with the use of an in vitro assay (CITATION) . The presence of ETO1 decreased ACS5 activity by nearly 50%, but only decreased the activity of tACS5 by less than 10% (Fig. 2e). Next we used a bacterial system, designed to test for functional ACS activity (CITATION) , to determine whether the inhibitory function of ETO1 occurs in vivo. Expression of ACS5 alone supported the viability of otherwise isoleucine-auxotrophic bacterial cells on M9 medium (Fig. 2f). However, coexpression of either EOL1 or EOL2 with ACS5 required ACC for growth (Fig. 2f), indicating an inhibitory effect by EOL1 and EOL2. Cells with coexpression of ETO1 and ACS5 were unable to grow even with supplemented ACC, which is probably due to a toxic effect of ETO1 expression in bacterial cells. Taken together, the results from both the in vitro and in vivo assays demonstrate that ETO1 is a negative regulator of ACS5 activity and suggest that a direct inhibition mechanism is involved. Next, we tested whether ETO1 regulates ACS5 activity in plants. It has previously been shown that kinetin (a synthetic version of the plant hormone cytokinin) induces ethylene synthesis and causes a Ctr- phenotype that is at least partly dependent on ACS5 activity in etiolated seedlings (CITATION) . If ETO1 inhibits ACS5 activity, overexpression of ETO1 in plants might suppress the ethylene synthesis and seedling phenotype induced by kinetin. Indeed, kinetin-induced inhibition of hypocotyl elongation in etiolated seedlings was suppressed by the overexpression of ETO1 (Fig. 2g). The hypocotyl phenotype in the 35S::ETO1 transgenic line was similar to that of eto2-2, a cytokinin-insensitive mutant, in the presence of kinetin (Fig. 2h). Furthermore, ethylene production induced by kinetin treatment in etiolated seedlings was decreased by about 30–50% by overexpression of ETO1 (Fig. 2i). Finally, overexpression of an ACS5 fusion protein in plants generated a partial Ctr- phenotype in etiolated seedlings (Fig. 2j). Coexpression of ETO1 in the isogenic background suppressed this phenotype (Fig. 2j), further supporting the idea that ETO1 is negatively regulating ACS5 function in planta. Consistent with a previous report (CITATION) —but one that used a different approach—is our observation that the concentration of ACS5 fusion protein is higher in the eto1 background (Fig. 3a). Over 100 transformed T1 seedlings (selected for antibiotic resistance) were pooled from each of the four transgenic groups and used to prepare protein extracts for immunoblot analysis. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction with reverse transcription (RT–PCR) was performed to measure the transcript concentrations of ACS5 and tACS5, which were then used to normalize the protein concentrations (see protein/RNA ratio in Fig. 3a). Whereas the concentration of ACS5 protein was significantly higher in eto1-4 than in the wild-type background, the concentration of tACS5 protein was higher than that of ACS5 in both the wild type and eto1-4 (Fig. 3a). Surprisingly, the concentration of tACS5 protein was increased about fourfold in eto1-4 compared with that found in the wild-type background (Fig. 3a, lanes 2 and 4). Active ACS is a dimer, and functional heterodimerization has been demonstrated by using phylogenetically related ACS isozymes of Arabidopsis (CITATION) . It is possible that in the wild-type background tACS5 might form a dimer with another ACS isozyme, possibly ACS5 or ACS9, allowing interaction of the tACS5/ACS5 homodimer or tACS5/ACS9 heterodimer with ETO1. Alternatively, ETO1 and ACS5 might be present as part of a larger multisubunit complex (data not shown). In this case, interaction of ETO1 with unknown subunits within the complex might sustain the otherwise weak interaction between ETO1 and tACS5 in the wild type (Fig. 2d and Fig. 3a). [[FIGURE]] To test whether increased ETO1 concentration would further reduce the concentration of ACS5, we transiently coexpressed ETO1 and ACS5 (tACS5) fusion proteins in Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells and examined the protein concentration by immunoblot analysis. Consistent with our previous observation in transgenic plants was our finding that tACS5 was more stable than ACS5 in cells containing the endogenous concentration of ETO1 protein (Fig. 3b, lanes 1 and 2). When ETO1 was overexpressed in the same cells, the concentration of ACS5 protein was further decreased, whereas that of tACS5 protein was decreased only moderately (Fig. 3b, lanes 1 and 3; lanes 2 and 4), indicating the possible importance of protein interaction between ETO1 and ACS5 in modulating the concentration of ACS5. ACS enzymes are short-lived proteins with an estimated half-life ranging from 20 to 40 min (ref. 1). Many short-lived proteins are degraded by the 26S proteasome, which requires sequential ubiquitin modifications on the target proteins by a set of enzymes (E1, E2 and E3) before protein degradation (CITATION) . Proteasome-dependent protein degradation has been shown to be important in the signalling pathways of photomorphogenesis and of several phytohormones in plants (CITATION) . To determine whether a proteasome-dependent pathway is involved in ACS5 protein degradation, we used a proteasome-specific inhibitor, MG132, in the transient expression experiment. The concentration of ACS5 fusion protein was increased about 14-fold with MG132 treatment (Fig. 3c), supporting the idea that the degradation of ACS5 is dependent on the proteasome. Recent studies have suggested that BTB proteins are substrate-specific adaptors that serve as the chimaeric modules of SKP1 and F-box proteins in the SCF-type ubiquitin E3 ligase to bridge between substrate and the scaffold subunit, CUL3 (refs 18–21). To address whether ETO1 is such an adaptor, we tested the direct interaction between ETO1 and CUL3. ETO1 interacted specifically with CUL3A but not with CUL1 (Fig. 3d). We also mapped the CUL3-interaction region in ETO1 to the N-terminal half (residues 1–420) containing the BTB domain, but not the C-terminal half (residues 420–951) with the TPR domain (Fig. 3e). Our results indicate that ETO1 might serve as a substrate-specific adaptor that connects ACS5 to the CUL3-based ubiquitin E3 ligase to regulate ACS5 protein degradation. We propose two mechanisms, not mutually exclusive, to explain how ETO1 negatively regulates ACS5 activity: first, by the direct inhibition of enzyme activity (Fig. 4b; ACS inactivation model) and, second, by protein degradation dependent on the proteasome (Fig. 4b; ACS degradation model). In either eto1-1 or eto2-1, the loss of interaction between ETO1 and ACS5 results in elevated ACS5 activity and ethylene overproduction (Fig. 4a). The direct inactivation model suggests that the action of the ETO1 protein is to interact directly with the C terminus of ACS5 and to ‘mask’ the catalytic sites or modify the conformation of the ACS5 protein to block or hinder substrate access. For many enzymes, allosteric modification provided by the binding of an effector (activator or inhibitor) regulates enzyme activity (CITATION) . Alternatively, the direct interaction between ETO1 and ACS5 may dissociate or destabilize the functional dimer of ACS5. Biochemical studies and crystal structure analysis of ACS protein have suggested that the functional enzyme is a dimer with shared active sites from each monomer (CITATION) . Dimerization of ACS enzymes might therefore provide the optimal enzyme activity, and possibly stability, which might be essential for their function. The second model indicates that ETO1 interacts with CUL3 and promotes ACS5 protein degradation by the ubiquitin/proteasome pathway. However, it is unknown whether ETO1 interacts with ACS5 monomer or dimer before ACS5 is degraded. In both models, regulation of ACS5 activity, either by direct inactivation or by protein degradation is dependent on its interaction with ETO1. These two proposed mechanisms might work together or sequentially to allow for tight regulation of ACS5 activity. [[FIGURE]] It is interesting to note that ethylene synthesis and signalling are similarly regulated. Both ACS5 protein (this study) and EIN3/EIL proteins (CITATION) , the key transcription factors in the ethylene signalling pathway, are synthesized constitutively and degraded rapidly by the proteasome. Tight coupling of the ethylene biosynthesis and signalling pathways might be necessary to prevent unwanted effects of ethylene on normal (non-stressed) plant development. What regulates the interaction of ACS5 and ETO1? It has previously been shown that tomato ACS2 (LE-ACS2) is phosphorylated by a wounding-induced calcium-dependent protein kinase at serine 460, which is conserved in the C terminus of many ACS isozymes, including ACS5 (refs 27, 28). Therefore, phosphorylation of ACS proteins by as yet unknown stress-induced protein kinases might have a function in the regulation of interaction between ETO1 and ACS5, or ACS isozymes (Fig. 4b). An understanding of what other ethylene-evoking stimuli, in addition to the important plant hormone cytokinin, mediate the interaction between ETO1 and ACS proteins will provide new insights into the range of developmental and environmental cues that modulate ethylene evolution in plants.
!~MM~! Except for eto2-2 in Wassilewskija (Ws), all eto1 and eto2 alleles were derived from the Columbia (Col-0) ecotype. The Landsberg erecta (Ler) ecotype was used for genetic mapping. Plant growth in air and ethylene was performed as described previously (CITATION) . Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells were derived from the hypocotyl of etiolated seedlings (a gift from J. Jones). The details of growth conditions and transient protein expression with Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells are described in the Supplementary Information. The details of generating fusion constructs of ETO1, EOL1, EOL2 and ACS5 for overexpression in either transgenic plants or suspension-cultured cells and for the yeast two-hybrid system are described in the Supplementary Information. ACS5 and tACS5 translated in vitro were synthesized and labelled with [35S]methionine with the Single-Tube Protein system (Novagene) in accordance with the manufacturer's protocol. Equal amounts (by radioactivity count) of ACS5 and tACS5 were incubated with purified RGS–ETO1 in binding buffer (50 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% Nonidet P40, 10% glycerol, 20 mM imidazole) for binding for 30 min at 25 °C. Ni-agarose resin (Qiagen) was added to precipitate RGS-ETO1, followed by stringent washing with the same buffer containing 500 mM NaCl before analysis of the co-precipitated proteins by SDS–polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis. The positive and negative controls for the yeast two-hybrid assay were SNF1/SNF4 and SNF1/lamin, respectively. Transiently expressed ETO1 and ACS5 fusion proteins were extracted from plant cells with lysis buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% Triton X-100, 10% glycerol, Sigma plant protease inhibitor cocktail) and subsequently used for either immunoblot analysis or co-immunoprecipitation experiments with appropriate antibodies. Recombinant CUL3A and CUL1 fusion proteins were expressed from Escherichia coli. The fusion constructs were generated by cloning the full-length cDNA (CUL3A:RAFL25-14-c10; CUL1:U09998) (CITATION) to designated vectors (6 His and glutathione S-transferase (GST) tags) by Cre–lox recombination (CITATION) . ETO1, EOL1, EOL2 and ACS5 cDNAs were amplified by RT–PCR, and subcloned into bacterial expression vectors. ETO1, EOL1 and EOL2 cDNAs were cloned in a pTrc99A vector (Pharmacia) under the control of an isopropyl β-d-thiogalactoside (IPTG)-inducible promoter. ACS5 cDNA was cloned in the same vector in which the ampicillin resistance (ApR) gene was replaced by a chloramphenicol resistance (CmR) gene. After transformation of the JAde6 strain (kanamycin resistance, KnR) (CITATION) with the different constructs and selection on Luria–Bertani (LB) plates containing three antibiotics, the presence of ACS5 and ETO1/EOL1/EOL2 constructs were confirmed by PCR. The growth of the bacteria was then assayed by re-streaking individual colonies on minimal medium M9 containing IPTG (100 µM) and three antibiotics (10 mg l-1 chloramphenicol, 50 mg l-1 ampicillin, 25 mg l-1 kanamycin) for 2 days before scoring phenotype. In a control experiment, ACC (3 mM) was added to the same M9 medium plates (IPTG/Ap/Cm/Kn). Only the bacterial cells expressing active ACS5 can survive on M9 medium without supplemented ACC. In vitro ACS activity assay was performed as described previously (CITATION) , with minor modifications. Recombinant GST–ACS5 or GST–tACS5 (1 µg of each) was incubated with S-adenosylmethionine (500 µM), pyridoxal phosphate (10 µM), dithiothreitol (5 mM), BSA (10 µg) and HEPES (250 mM, pH 8.0) for reaction at 25 °C for 60 min. Purified ETO1 (0.8 µg) was added to the reactions as indicated. ACC produced by the above enzymatic reaction was converted to ethylene by a chemical method (CITATION) . Ethylene was measured by gas chromatography (Perkin-Elmer) with a capillary column (PoraPLOT U; Varian) and a flame ionization detector by following the methods described previously (CITATION) . Ethylene concentration was analysed with the Turbochrome 4 software (Perkin-Elmer) with the use of known concentrations of ethylene (10 µl l-1) as standard. Ethylene measurements on etiolated seedlings were performed as described previously (CITATION) and were normalized by the number of seedlings in the 22-ml vials and the duration of germination in the dark at 24 °C.
