!~ABS~! We developed a high-throughput methodology, termed fluorescent tagging of full-length proteins (FTFLP), to analyze expression patterns and subcellular localization of Arabidopsis gene products in planta. Determination of these parameters is a logical first step in functional characterization of the approximately one-third of all known Arabidopsis genes that encode novel proteins of unknown function. Our FTFLP-based approach offers two significant advantages: first, it produces internally-tagged full-length proteins that are likely to exhibit native intracellular localization, and second, it yields information about the tissue specificity of gene expression by the use of native promoters. To demonstrate how FTFLP may be used for characterization of the Arabidopsis proteome, we tagged a series of known proteins with diverse subcellular targeting patterns as well as several proteins with unknown function and unassigned subcellular localization.
!~RES~! Fluorescent tagging of proteins to study their expression and localization patterns should ideally conform to the following three criteria: (1) the fluorescent reporter should be stable over the range of physiological conditions found in different subcellular compartments, such as pH, (2) the insertion of the reporter should minimally disturb the conformation of the target protein and preserve native targeting signals and posttranslational modification sites, and (3) expression of the tagged protein should occur from its native regulatory sequences to faithfully detect its developmental and/or tissue-specific regulation. Our FTFLP approach fulfills these three requirements. As a fluorescent tag, we used the citrine variant of yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) (CITATION), which can be used not only to visualize a single protein but also to study protein-protein interactions in vivo as an energy acceptor in bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET; CITATION) and fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) assays (CITATION; CITATION). Citrine YFP has enhanced photostability, and is much less sensitive to pH and anions, such as chloride, compared to other YFP variants (CITATION). The reduced sensitivity to pH allows detection of proteins targeted to the extracellular matrix or to other relatively acidic subcellular compartments, making it more suitable for tagging proteins with a wide range of targeting specificities. Some proteins were also tagged with cyan fluorescent protein (CFP; ECFP, CLONTECH, Palo Alto, CA) for comparison of localization patterns obtained with different tags and for future colocalization and protein interaction studies. Methods and results for CFP were identical to those for YFP. We flanked the YFP open reading frame with flexible linker peptides (CITATION), minimizing protein folding interference between YFP and the tagged Arabidopsis protein. To avoid placing identical nucleotide sequences on each side of the tag, we used two different linkers: the N terminus of YFP was linked to a Gly-rich peptide, (Gly)5Ala, and the C terminus is linked to an Ala-rich linker peptide, AlaGly(Ala)5GlyAla. To further avoid effects of the YFP tag on native subcellular localization, the location of the tag relative to the target sequence was determined for each individual protein, based on computer-assisted predictions of protein folding and functional domains. We reasoned that it should be possible to devise a default tag location for most target proteins. The tag should ideally reside within a stretch of hydrophilic residues, outside of any specific protein domain, and near the C terminus. Thus, our default strategy was to insert the YFP tag 30 bp (10 amino acids) upstream of the stop codon. This location minimizes disturbance of the contiguous protein sequence, and protects the activity of membrane anchoring signals typically found within a few C-terminal amino acid residues (CITATION; CITATION). Indeed, the addition of a four-amino acid (CaaX) farnesylation motif to the C terminus of GFP is sufficient to direct it to the plasma membrane (D. Jackson, unpublished data) and fusion of a tripeptide peroxisomal targeting signal to the C terminus of a reporter protein also allows specific localization (CITATION). In cases where the default tag position overlapped with a predicted protein domain (CITATION), an alternative tag site near the C terminus was selected to meet our criteria of being within a hydrophilic region and not disrupting any predicted domain. Over 93% of the genes we tested had suitable primers within the last 10 amino acid residues from the C terminus. To faithfully reproduce the expression level and pattern of each target gene, our constructs included the 5′ UTR and promoter sequences, the coding region with introns, and the 3′ UTR and downstream sequence. Most intergenic distances in the Arabidopsis genome are around 2 kb, suggesting that the promoter sequences are contained in a relatively small region (The CITATION). Thus, we included up to 3 kb upstream of the translation initiation codon and 1 kb downstream of the STOP codon in our constructs. We designed an efficient protocol for generation and in planta expression of tagged genes (Fig. 1 ). We first amplified the selected gene in two fragments, one from the predicted start of the promoter to the YFP insertion site (i.e. between primers P1 and P2 in Fig. 1), and the second comprising the rest of the coding sequence and 3′sequences (i.e. between primers P3 and P4 in Fig. 1). In addition to gene-specific sequences, primers P1 and P4 were tailed with sequences complementary to the Gateway primers (see below), and P2 and P3 were tailed with sequences complementary to the YFP linkers. We also amplified the YFP coding sequence with flanking linkers (Fig. 1). In a second round of PCR, all three amplified fragments acted as overlapping templates for long flanking homology (LFH) PCR (CITATION). This reaction, which we called triple-template PCR (TT-PCR), used two common primers tailed with the attB1 and attB2 Gateway sequences (CITATION) and complementary at their 3′-end to the P1 and P4 primers (Fig. 1). Thus, TT-PCR introduced the YFP tag into the selected site within the target gene without the need for conventional cloning, and created an internally-tagged full-length gene ready for Gateway recombination cloning. [[FIGURE]] For stable expression in transgenic plants, each YFP-tagged gene was cloned and transferred into an Agrobacterium binary vector. For high throughput, we used the Gateway system (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA), which is based on bacteriophage λ site-specific recombination (CITATION). The Gateway cloning first produced a donor construct, containing the amplified TT-PCR product in the donor vector, pDONR207 (Invitrogen; CITATION; see also www.invitrogen.com). The tagged gene was next recombined in vitro into the destination vector (CITATION; see also www.invitrogen.com). A binary destination vector was constructed by subcloning the Gateway conversion cassette C.1 (Invitrogen) into the promoter-less T-DNA region of pBIN19, resulting in the pBIN-GW vector. To augment native expression of genes with relatively weak promoters, we also constructed a binary destination vector with tetramerized CaMV 35S enhancers in the T-DNA region of pMN20 (CITATION), resulting in pMN-GW. In our experiments, the efficiency of the first recombination reaction into the donor plasmid was 80% to 90%, whereas recombination into the binary destination vector was 100% efficient (data not shown). Following recombination into the donor vector, we completely sequenced all tagged gene clones to estimate the rate of sequence errors introduced by PCR. Each amplified gene carried between zero and three amino acid substitutions, corresponding to average amino acid substitution rate of 0 to 0.3/1 kb of amplified sequence. Additional details and step-by-step experimental protocols for FTFLP can be found on our web site, http://aztec.stanford.edu/gfp/. As proof of concept for the FTFLP approach, we fluorescently tagged a number of Arabidopsis genes whose protein products have diverse, known subcellular locations, such as the peroxisome, vacuole, plasma membrane, ER, Golgi, nucleus, and cytosol. Transgenic plants expressing these genes were produced by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and examined for expression of the tagged transgenes in various plant organs, such as roots, hypocotyls, and cotyledons. On average, 20 to 40 primary transgenic plants were screened per construct, using a fluorescence dissecting microscope, followed by detailed analysis by confocal laser scanning microscopy. In most cases, 80% to 90% of plants exhibited fluorescent protein expression. In the following sections, we describe selected examples of patterns of subcellular localization and expression of known proteins (reference genes) as well as several proteins with unknown function and unassigned subcellular localization. Localization to peroxisomes was exemplified by two Arabidopsis proteins, the multifunctional protein 2 (MFP2) and peroxisomal targeting signal type 1 receptor (Peroxin-5, Pex5; CITATION; CITATION). The corresponding genes were tagged with YFP and expressed from their native promoters with and without the 35S enhancers. Expression was examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy in hypocotyls, leaves, and roots. In all these organs, MFP2 localized to discrete subcellular structures that represent peroxisomes (Fig. 2, A –C). While the 35S enhancers clearly increased the levels of MFP2 expression, they did not alter its subcellular localization (data not shown). Similar expression patterns were obtained with YFP-tagged Pex5 (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To demonstrate that the fidelity of subcellular targeting was not limited to protein tagging with YFP, we also tagged MFP2 and Pex5 with CFP. Figure 2 illustrates that the CFP-tagged MFP2 (sections d–F) and Pex5 (sections G–I) exhibited peroxisomal targeting identical to that of YFP-tagged MFP2 and Pex5, in different plant tissues, such as cotyledons, hypocotyls, leaves, and roots. The CFP-tagged genes also showed higher levels of expression but the same subcellular targeting specificities in the presence of the 35S enhancers (data not shown). Tonoplast membrane targeting was examined using delta-tonoplast intrinsic protein (TIP), an Arabidopsis tonoplast protein (CITATION) and a homolog of aquaporins found in membranes of storage vacuoles in pea and barley (CITATION; CITATION). Figure 3 shows that YFP-tagged delta-TIP was expressed in hypocotyls (section A), leaves (section B), and roots (not shown), and localized exclusively to the tonoplast membrane. The use of a CFP tag or of the 35S enhancers did not affect the subcellular localization of delta-TIP, but the enhancers slightly elevated its expression level (Fig. 3C). In addition, YFP and CFP signal was observed in bulb-like structures (Fig. 3) previously reported to associate with the tonoplast membrane and to contain another tonoplast protein, gamma-TIP (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Plasma membrane intrinsic protein 2A (PIP2A) of Arabidopsis, a channel protein (CITATION), was used to visualize protein targeting to the plasma membrane. YFP-tagged PIP2 expressed from its native promoter in the absence (not shown) or in the presence of 35S enhancers localized exclusively at the extreme cell periphery in all plant tissues, including hypocotyls (Fig. 4A ), cotyledons (data not shown), and roots (Fig. 4B). This localization pattern could be interpreted as either plasma membrane or cytosolic because the cytoplasm is typically displaced to the cell periphery by the large central vacuole. However, the cytosolic compartment is characterized by transvacuolar strands, variations in cytosol thickness at the cell cortex, and rapid remodeling over time due to cytosolic streaming (CITATION). The absence of these patterns, together with the uniform and sharp pattern of peripheral labeling by YFP-PIP2A, indicates that the localization was in fact at the plasma membrane (also compare with cytosolic patterns in Fig. 7). We also distinguished plasma membrane targeting from cell wall localization by plasmolysis experiments, where the YFP-PIP2A fluorescent signal associated with the displaced membrane in plasmolysed cells (Fig. 4C). [[FIGURE]] Proline-rich protein 2A (PRP2) resides in the cell wall (CITATION). This specific subcellular localization was faithfully reproduced using the PRP2 gene tagged with CFP and expressed with 35S enhancers in hypocotyls (Fig. 4D), cotyledons, and roots (data not shown). The cell wall localization of the fluorescent signal remained after plasmolysis (data not shown), and was also observed using the YFP-tagged PRP2 expressed with and without 35S enhancers (data not shown). Plasmodesmata play essential roles in cell-to-cell transport and communication (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). However, little is known about the proteins comprising these channels, which connect cells and regulate traffic of molecules as large as viral genomes. Because native plasmodesmal proteins have not been definitively identified, we used a plant viral protein, the cell-to-cell movement protein of turnip vein clearing virus (TVCV MP), as a plasmodesmal marker. Viral cell-to-cell movement proteins (MPs) target to plasmodesmata, and represent a classical tool in studies of plasmodesmal transport (reviewed in CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Thus, we tagged TVCV MP with YFP and expressed it from the full 35S promoter. Figure 4E shows the characteristic punctate pattern of the tagged protein expressed in root tissues and accumulated at the cell periphery, presumably in the cell wall. Previously, such puncta have been shown to represent plasmodesmal accumulation of MP (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Arabidopsis fimbrin 1 (Fim1; CITATION) cross-links filamentous actin, producing a fine reticulate network of filaments (CITATION).We observed evidence of fine filaments of YFP-tagged Fim1 mainly around chloroplasts in leaf mesophyll cells (Fig. 5, A and B ). The fluorescence signal was stronger in plants with the 35S enhancers constructs, but the localization pattern was unchanged (data not shown). Treatment with Latrunculin A, a drug that disrupts actin filaments (CITATION), resulted in disruption of the filaments (Fig. 5C), supporting the conclusion that the YFP-Fim1 was associated with actin. The pattern of Fim1 localization in green tissues was remarkably similar to that observed with another filamentous actin binding protein, CHUP1, which is thought to participate in chloroplast positioning (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Arabidopsis MFP1 associated factor (MAF1) preferentially localizes to the nuclear envelope and to proplastids (CITATION; CITATION). YFP-tagged MAF1 exactly reproduced this subcellular localization pattern in roots (Fig. 6A ) and leaves (data not shown), accumulating in a distinct perinuclear ring as well as associating with proplastid-like structures. Again, expression from the construct with 35S enhancers did not alter the subcellular targeting of the protein (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] VirE2-interacting protein 2 (VIP2, GenBank accession no. AF295433) of Arabidopsis is homologous to yeast Not2p and Drosophila Rga proteins, which are thought to mediate intranuclear interactions between chromatin proteins and the transcriptional complex (CITATION). Indeed, GUS fusions to VIP2 accumulate in the nucleus of tobacco and Arabidopsis cells (V. Citovsky, unpublished data). Here, our analysis of transgenic Arabidopsis expressing YFP-tagged VIP2 confirmed the nuclear targeting of this protein (Fig. 6, B and C). Virtually no signal was detected in the cytoplasm, indicating efficient nuclear import. Indeed, because the predicted size of the citrine-VIP2 fusion protein (approximately 85 kD) is substantially larger than the size exclusion limit of the nuclear pore (approximately 60 kD; reviewed in CITATION; CITATION), its accumulation within the nucleus must result from the active process of nuclear import. The YFP-tagged VIP2 gene had an intriguing cell-specific pattern of expression. Figure 6 shows that the tagged protein was detected only in megasporocytes (section B) and tapetum cells (sections C and D), but it was not detected in seedling roots, leaves, or hypocotyls (data not shown). This specificity of VIP2 expression was confirmed by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR, which detected VIP2 transcripts in the flower buds (lane 1) and mature flowers (lane 2), but not in roots, leaves, or stems (lanes 3–5, respectively) of wild-type Arabidopsis (Fig. 6E). In control experiments, analysis of actin-specific transcripts generated similar amounts of PCR products in all samples, indicating equal efficiencies of the RT-PCR reactions (Fig. 6F). Thus, transgenic expression of the YFP-tagged VIP2 revealed novel information about the native cell-specific expression pattern of this gene as well as subcellular localization of its protein product. Another example of an Arabidopsis nuclear protein is the VirE2-interacting protein 1 (VIP1), a basic Leu zipper protein thought to function in transcriptional complexes and, during Agrobacterium infection, facilitate nuclear import of VirE2 (CITATION, CITATION). YFP-tagged VIP1 exhibited exclusively nuclear localization in roots (Fig. 6G), leaves (Fig. 6H), and stigmatic papillae of the transgenic plants (Fig. 6I). These nuclear patterns of VIP2 and VIP1 subcellular localization remained unchanged when the proteins were expressed from the 35S enhancer-containing construct (data not shown). Recent data suggest that 47% of the yeast proteins are cytosolic (CITATION). Similarly, many plant proteins may be cytoplasmic. To illustrate the patterns expected from cytoplasmic localization, we used GSR1, the cytosolic Gln synthetase of Arabidopsis (CITATION). Figure 7 shows the characteristic cytoplasmic pattern with transvacuolar strands that YFP- or CFP-tagged GSR1 forms in leaf (sections A and D) and root cells (section B). In this case, the use of the 35S enhancers construct did not significantly alter fluorescence levels, and it had no effect on the cytosolic YFP accumulation in roots (Fig. 7C) or leaves (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To examine whether this tagged gene showed its known transcriptional regulation, we germinated the seedlings in light or in the dark. The YFP-tagged GSR1 exhibited the expected light-induced expression (CITATION; CITATION) in the roots of transgenic plants (Fig. 7, E and F). More than one-third of Arabidopsis genes have no predicted function (CITATION). We propose that our FTFLP approach combined with the standardized image interpretation can be used to characterize Arabidopsis proteins whose function is unknown and whose intracellular localization cannot be predicted based on their amino acid sequence. The following genes of unknown function were randomly selected for these experiments and tagged with YFP: At2g16530, At1g27090, At2g15240, At1g12170, and At1g80940. The tagged proteins were expressed in transgenic plants from their native promoters, and the subcellular localization patterns were compared to those of our reference genes. Figure 8 shows that At2g16530, augmented with 35S enhancers, was expressed predominantly in root tissues (sections A–C), especially in lateral root primordia (section C). The tagged protein exhibited perinuclear localization (Fig. 8B, arrow), remarkably similar to that of MAF1 (see Fig. 6A). Some of the tagged protein also accumulated at the cell periphery in the cytoplasm (Fig. 8, A–C). Native expression of A1g27090 was observed mainly in guard cells, in the cytoplasm, and in unidentified subcellular structures (Fig. 8D, arrows). At2g15240 was expressed in the root and accumulated in the cytoplasm (Fig. 8E), but was not detected in other organs (data not shown). At1g12170 was expressed specifically in the root tip (Fig. 8F, compare to expression of At2g16530 throughout the root in Fig. 8A) and was cytoplasmic (Fig. 8F). Finally, At1g80940 was exclusively nuclear in the leaf (Fig. 8G) and in petioles (Fig. 8H). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The pBIN19 plasmid was digested with EcoRI and HindIII, and the ends were filled-in with Klenow. Into these blunted ends, we ligated a blunt-ended Gateway conversion cassette (reading frame C.1; Invitrogen catalog no. 11797016). The resulting Gateway destination vector, designated pBIN-GW, has the following structure in its T-DNA region: T-DNA right border-NOS terminator<-NPTII<-35S promoter-attR1->CAT->ccdB->attR2-T-DNA left border. This vector has no regulatory sequences for expression of cloned genes and, thus, is useful for producing native levels and patterns of gene expression. Using a similar strategy, the pMN20 activation tagging plasmid (CITATION) was converted to a Gateway vector, following digestion with HindIII. The resulting plasmid, pMN-GW, has the following structure of its T-DNA region: T-DNA right border-(35S enhancer)4-attR1->CAT->ccdB->attR2-35S promoter-NPTII-NOS terminator-T-DNA left border. This vector has tetramerized CaMV 35S enhancers in its T-DNA region (CITATION) and, thus, is useful for producing elevated levels of gene expression while retaining native expression patterns. Note that pMN20-based vectors should be prepared from fresh bacterial stocks and used immediately after transferring them to Agrobacterium because they tend to lose some copies of their 35S enhancers due to recombination in Escherichia coli or Agrobacterium when stored at 4°C (CITATION). Both pBIN-GW and pMN-GW vectors were propagated in the DB3.1 strain of E. coli (Invitrogen) strain carrying the gyrA462 gene which confers resistance to the toxicity of the ccdB gene (its protein product, a natural analog of the quinolone antibiotics, binds to the DNA gyrase subunit A and turns it into a poison; CITATION). Following Gateway recombination, ccdB is replaced by the fluorescently-tagged gene, allowing better selection for the recombinant clones in bacterial strains that do not carry gyrA462 or F' episome (which also confers resistance to ccdB). YFP and CFP tags were amplified from the pRSETB-Citrine (CITATION) and pECFP-C1 (CLONTECH) plasmids as templates using the ExTaq DNA polymerase (TaKaRa, Bio, Otsu, Japan) and the following pair of primers for both genes: forward primer 5′-AAGGCCGGCCTGGAGGTGGAGGTGGAGCTGTGAGCA-3′, and reverse primer 5′-TTGGCCCCAGCGGCCGCAGCAGCACCAGCAGGATCCTTGTACAGCTCGTCCA-3′. These primers encode peptide linkers, (Gly)5Ala and AlaGly(Ala)5GlyAla, followed by recognition sites for rare-cutting endonucleases FseI and SfiI, respectively. These restriction sites, although not required for subsequent gene tagging, may be useful in future application for easy replacement of the YFP/CFP by other protein tags. The amplified fragments were subcloned into a pTOPO TA vector (Invitrogen). Using these constructs as templates, DNA fragments encoding YFP or CFP tags with linker sequences were amplified (forward primer: 5′-GGCCGGCCTGGAGGTGGAGGTGGAGCTGTGAGCA-3′, reverse primer: 5′-GGCCCCAGCGGCCGCAGCAGCACCAGCAGGATC-3′, annealing temperature 70°C) using the Pfu-Turbo DNA polymerase (Invitrogen) and gel-purified using the GFX PCR purification kit (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ) for their subsequent use in TT-PCR. For each gene, two sets of primers, P1/P2 and P3/P4 (see Fig. 1), were designed by a Perl script that takes into account the annealing temperature, the position of each primer within the genomic and protein sequence, and primer length and secondary structure in an iterative fashion until a suitable pair is detected; it uses part of the Primer3 program (available at http://www-genome.wi.mit.edu/cgi-bin/primer/primer3_www.cgi). For all unknown genes, TIGR's genome release version 4.0 was used. We obtained Interpro (CITATION) functional domain mapping data from TIGR and secondary structure mapping from Structural Classification of Proteins (SCOP; http://scop.mrc-lmb.cam.ac.uk/scop/; J. Gough, unpublished data). The sequences of the primers are shown in Table I. Besides 18 to 25 nucleotides-long gene-specific sequences, P1 and P4 primers contained sequences 5′-GCTCGATCCACCTAGGCT-3′ and 5′-CGTAGCGAGACCACAGGA-3′, respectively, that partially overlap the Gateway primers (see below), whereas P2 and P3 primers contained sequences 5′-CACAGCTCCACCTCCACCTCCAGGCCGGCC-3′ and 5′-TGCTGGTGCTGCTGCGGCCGCTGGGGCC-3′, respectively, that partially overlap the fluorescent tag linkers (see above). For the first PCR reaction (see Fig. 1), genomic DNA was extracted from total leaf material of 6-week-old Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia plants using the DNeasy Plant Mini kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) according to the manufacturer's instructions and used as template. The gene fragments were amplified in 20 μL of the mixture containing 100 ng template DNA, 1× ExTaq reaction buffer (TaKaRa Bio), 0.2 mm dNTP, 0.2 μm of each primer, and 0.025 units/μL ExTaq. The following PCR conditions were used: 1 cycle at 95°C for 3 min; 7 touch-down cycles at 93°C for 30 s, 64°C for 30 s (this temperature is reduced by 1°C per touch-down cycle), and 68°C for 1 min/1 kb of the longest amplified sequence; 23 cycles at 93°C for 30 s, 58°C for 30 s, and 68°C for 1 min/1 kb of the longest amplified sequence; and 1 cycle at 68°C for 1 min/1 kb of the longest amplified sequence. The amplified fragments were gel-purified using a GFX PCR gel purification kit (Amersham Biosciences), and the ExTaq-generated A-overhangs were removed by incubation for 30 min at 72°C in 50 μL containing 25 μL amplified DNA, 1xPfu reaction buffer, 0.2 mm dNTP, and 0.01 units/μL Pfu polymerase (Invitrogen). Tagged Arabidopsis genes with known targeting specificities and sequences of DNA primers used for their amplification For the second PCR reaction (TT-PCR, see Fig. 1), a pair of standard, gene-nonspecific Gateway primers were designed. The forward primer, 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTGCTCGATCCACCTAGGCT-3′, contained the attB1 sequence, and the reverse primer, 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCGTAGCGAGACCACAGGA-3′, contained the attB2 sequence. These primers were combined with three templates, i.e. the fluorescent tag and two gene fragments, in 20 μL of a mixture containing 100-ng long fragment (P1-P2), 50-ng short fragment (P3-P4), 50-ng YFP or CFP fragment, 1× ExTaq reaction buffer, 0.2 mm dNTP, 0.2 μm of each Gateway primer, and 0.02 units/μL ExTaq. TT-PCR was performed under the following conditions: 1 cycle at 95°C for 3 min; 20 cycles at 93°C for 30 s, 54°C for 30 s, and 68°C for 1 min/1 kb of the longest amplified sequence; and 1 cycle at 68°C for 1 min/1 kb of the longest amplified sequence. The TT-PCR product was gel-purified as described above and recombined into the Gateway donor vector pDONR207 (Invitrogen) in 10 μL BP Clonase (Invitrogen) reaction containing 300-ng TT-PCR fragment, 150-ng pDONR207, 2 μL BP Clonase, and 2 μL BP Clonase buffer. Following overnight incubation at 25°C, 1 μL Proteinase K (2 μg/μL) was added, and the incubation continued for 10 min at 37°C, after which 1 to 2 μL of the reaction mixture was transformed into the DH5α or DH10B strain of E. coli, and the recombinants were selected on a gentamycin-containing medium. Clones with the correct inserts were identified by colony PCR using a pair of vector-specific attL primers, i.e. forward attL1 primer: 5′-TCGCGTTAACGCTAGCATGGATCTC-3′, and reverse attL2 primer: 5′-GTAACATCAGAGATTTTGAGACAC-3′. Finally, the tagged genes were transferred from their donor constructs to both of the binary destination vectors pBIN-GW and pMN-GW in 10 μL of a single LR Clonase reaction containing 150 to 200 ng donor construct, 200 ng pBIN-GW and pMN-GW (1:1 w/w mixture), 5 units topoisomerase (Invitrogen), 2 μL LR Clonase (Invitrogen), and 2 μL LR Clonase buffer. After overnight incubation at 25°C, 1 μL of Proteinase K (2 μg/μL) was added, and the incubation continued for 10 min at 37°C, following which 2 μL of the reaction mixture was transformed into the DH5α or DH10B strain of E. coli, and the pBIN-GW and pMN-GW recombinants were selected on a kanamycin- or spectinomycin-containing medium, respectively; note that different antibiotic resistance markers of pBIN-GW and pMN-GW allow simultaneous recombination of the tagged genes into both of these binary vectors in the same reaction mixture. The correct clones were identified by colony PCR using P1 and P4 primers. All gene amplification reactions were performed using ExTaq (TaKaRa Bio) DNA polymerase (which, under our conditions, exhibited the highest fidelity while still capable of efficiently amplifying 8–11 kb-long DNA fragments), and the amplification products were verified by DNA sequencing. The binary constructs were introduced into the A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 and the resulting bacterial cultures were used to transform Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia by the standard flower dip method (CITATION) or its modified version (CITATION). Seed stocks for all transgenic plants expressing the tagged proteins described in this study are available from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC). Live seedlings and plant tissue samples were mounted in water between number 1 1/2 coverglasses, using silicon vacuum grease to create spacers between the glass surfaces. Images were collected with one of three laser scanning confocal microscope systems, a Leica TCS SP2/UV (Wetlzer, Germany), a Zeiss LSM 5 Pascal (Jena, Germany), or a Bio-Rad MRC 1024 (Hercules, CA). In all cases, a high numerical aperture (1.2–1.3) water immersion objective (60–63×) was employed. A 488-nm or a 514-nm laser line from an argon ion was used to excited YFP and a 442-nm line from a HeCd laser or a 457-nm line from an argon ion laser was used to excite CFP. Total RNA was extracted from 2.0 g of roots, leaves, stems, flower buds, and mature flowers of wild-type Arabidopsis using TRI Reagent (Molecular Research Center, Cincinnati), and reverse-transcribed with M-MuLV reverse transcriptase using the dT23VN primer (BioLabs). The resulting first strand cDNAs were PCR-amplified as described (CITATION; CITATION), using a mixture of forward and reverse primers derived from VIP2 (AGI code AT5G59710) and Arabidopsis ACT2/ACT8 actin (AGI code AT1G49240, CITATION). RT-PCR products were then detected by ethidium bromide staining of agarose gels. VIP2 forward and reverse primers, 5′-AAACATGGTTGGTGGAGGTAACTT-3′ and 5′-GGAGACGCAAATGTCTTGTAGAGA-3′, respectively, generated a 948-bp product while actin forward and reverse primers, 5′-ACCTTGCTGGTCGTGACCTT-3′ and 5′-GATCCCGTCATGGAAACGAT-3′, respectively, generated a 632-bp product. Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession number AF295433.
