!~ABS~! Heterotrimeric G proteins composed of α, β, and γ subunits link ligand perception by G protein–coupled receptors (GPCRs) with downstream effectors, providing a ubiquitous signaling mechanism in eukaryotes. The Arabidopsis thaliana genome encodes single prototypical Gα (GPA1) and Gβ (AGB1) subunits, and two probable Gγ subunits (AGG1 and AGG2). One Arabidopsis gene, GCR1, encodes a protein with significant sequence similarity to nonplant GPCRs and a predicted 7-transmembrane domain structure characteristic of GPCRs. However, whether GCR1 actually interacts with GPA1 was unknown. We demonstrate by in vitro pull-down assays, by yeast split-ubiquitin assays, and by coimmunoprecipitation from plant tissue that GCR1 and GPA1 are indeed physically coupled. GCR1–GPA1 interaction depends on intracellular domains of GCR1. gcr1 T-DNA insertional mutants exhibit hypersensitivity to abscisic acid (ABA) in assays of root growth, gene regulation, and stomatal response. gcr1 guard cells are also hypersensitive to the lipid metabolite, sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), which is a transducer of the ABA signal upstream of GPA1. Because gpa1 mutants exhibit insensitivity in aspects of guard cell ABA and S1P responses, whereas gcr1 mutants exhibit hypersensitivity, GCR1 may act as a negative regulator of GPA1-mediated ABA responses in guard cells.
!~RES~! Earlier sequence-based homology searches identified GCR1 as the only protein in Arabidopsis that shows significant similarity to Dictyostelium CARs. However, in light of the complete sequencing of the Arabidopsis genome and the accumulation of a large amount of new sequence data for metazoan GPCRs, we reevaluated GCR1 sequence homologs. Using GCR1 protein as the query, BLAST (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST) and FASTA (www.ebi.ac.uk.fasta33) analyses show that in addition to CAR receptors of Dictyostelium, GCR1 also shows significant sequence similarity to members of the Frizzled/Smoothened family of receptors and also to Methuselah-like proteins of Drosophila. Table 1 shows representatives of each family identified by this analysis with an e-value cutoff of 2e−2 or less. Overall Similarity Prediction of GCR1 To test whether GCR1 is actually G protein coupled, we first used an in vitro system (Figure 1A). In vitro binding assays were performed with GPA1 fused with the GAL4 activation domain of yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) (GPA1-GAD) and GCR1 obtained by coupled in vitro transcription/translation in a cell free system (lanes 1 and 2). Pull-down assays were performed with anti-GAD antibodies, and the antigen-antibody complex was precipitated with protein A–agarose beads. Anti-GAD antibodies could precipitate GCR1 only in the presence of GPA1 (lane 3) but not by itself (lane 4). Similar interaction assays with a GAD-tagged putative protein kinase (lane 5) failed to precipitate GCR1, confirming the specificity of the binding reaction. [[FIGURE]] We confirmed that GCR1 binds directly to GPA1 in vivo using a modified split ubiquitin system developed to assess interactions of membrane proteins (CITATION). In this system, interactions between membrane-bound fusion proteins can be monitored by the release of an artificial transcription factor consisting of protein A, LexA, and VP16 (PLV). In vivo interaction between the two fusion proteins reconstitutes the N-terminal part of ubiquitin (Nub) with the C-terminal part of ubiquitin fused with PLV (CubPLV), leading to the cleavage and release of PLV by ubiquitin-specific proteases and, thus, to PLV-activated expression of lacZ, HIS3, and ADE reporter genes integrated in the yeast genome. GCR1 and GPA1 open reading frames were fused to either the C-terminal part of ubiquitin (GCR1-Cub and GPA1-Cub) followed by PLV or to the N-terminal part of ubiquitin (Nubwt or NubG, I13G) (CITATION) by in vivo recombination cloning. Nub fusions were made at both the C terminus and the N terminus of the gene. Thus, for each open reading frame (ORF), we made five fusion constructs: ORF-Cub, ORF-NubG, NubG-ORF, ORF-Nubwt, and Nubwt-ORF, where ORF is GCR1 or GPA1 (Figure 1B). NubG constructs served as test proteins. Nubwt constructs served as positive controls because these proteins will release active PLV even in the absence of interaction between the target and the bait proteins. Interactions were tested by mating of yeast strains AP4 (harboring Cub fusion proteins) and AP5 (harboring Nub fusion proteins), growth of diploid yeast cells on media lacking His and Ade, and also by LacZ expression and β-galactosidase activity in presence of 5-bromo-4-chloro-β-d-galactosidase (X-Gal). GPA1-Cub and GCR1-Cub were each used as baits in two separate assays. As shown in Figure 1C, GPA1-Cub protein interacts with NubG-GCR1 but not with GCR1-NubG (Figure 1C, plate 1, I and II). GCR1-Cub, however, does not show interaction with GPA1-Nub constructs (Figure 1C, plate 2, I and II), illustrating that a free GCR1 C terminus is required for interaction. We further confirmed the interaction between GCR1 and GPA1 in planta. gcr1-3 mutant plants were transformed with a full-length GCR1 cDNA fused with a FLAG epitope tag under the control of a glucocorticoid-inducible promoter. Protein expression was induced by treating plants with dexmethasone (Dex) for 24 h. Noninduced and gcr1-3 knockout plants served as controls. As shown in Figure 2, GCR1 and GPA1 can be coimmunoprecipitated. By protein gel blotting using anti-FLAG antibodies as probe, we could detect GCR1 in the immunocomplex precipitated with anti-GPA1 antibodies, from GCR1:FLAG plants induced with Dex (lane 1, S and M), but not in the proteins precipitated from the noninduced plants (lane 2, S and M). Similarly, GPA1 could be detected by immunoblotting with anti-GPA1 antibodies, in the immunocomplex precipitated with anti-FLAG antibodies from GCR1:FLAG plants (lane 3, S and M), but not from the gcr1-3 plants (lane 4, S and M). [[FIGURE]] Results obtained with our initial split ubiquitin tests indicate that a free C terminus is required for GCR1 interaction with GPA1. GCR1 with ubiquitin-fused at its C terminus fails to interact with GPA1 (Figure 1C, plate 2, I and II), whereas an N-terminal ubiquitin fused GCR1 does interact (Figure 1C, plate 1, II). This result, however, raised a question about the topology of GCR1. GCR1 is predicted to have a classic 7TM structure with its N terminus outside and C terminus inside the plasma membrane. Ubiquitin reconstitution, however, takes place in the cytoplasm. Thus, based on the classic structure prediction, ubiquitin fused at the N terminus of GCR1 would not be available for reconstitution. To resolve this issue, we used several Web-based topology prediction programs (DAS, SMART, and TMHMM) to deduce the orientation of GCR1 full-length and truncated proteins in their native or ubiquitin-fused forms. Figure 3 shows schematic representations of model diagrams generated by the TMHMM program (CITATION). Identical results (data not shown) were obtained with DAS and SMART programs (CITATION). As shown in Figure 3A, the full-length GCR1 has a prototypical 7TM structure with an N out, C in orientation. Nub-GCR1FL fusion protein (full-length GCR1 with ubiquitin fusion at the N terminus), however, is predicted to have eight transmembrane domains, with both the N and C termini inside. This thus justifies the interaction results we see in the split ubiquitin system. By contrast, GCR1FL-Nub fusion protein (full-length GCR1 with ubiquitin fusion at the C terminus) maintains the N out, C in orientation of native GCR1. Because the Nub-GCR1FL but not the GCR1FL-Nub fusion protein shows interaction with GPA1, we deduce that a free C terminus of GCR1 is required for this interaction. [[FIGURE]] GCR1IL2 protein (amino acids 105 to 326) starts at the junction of predicted transmembrane 3 and intracellular loop 2. This truncated protein, lacking the transmembrane 3 region (amino acids 84 to 104), fails to integrate to the membrane from its N terminus and thus has only one intracellular loop (il3). The N-terminal region, from amino acids 105 to 119, is predicted to remain free in the cytoplasm along with the C terminus, with or without ubiquitin fusion (Figure 3B). GCR1IL3 truncated protein (amino acids 184 to 326) starts at the junction of predicted transmembrane 5 and il3. This truncated protein does not have the transmembrane region 5 (amino acids 161 to 183) and also fails to integrate to the membrane from its N terminus and has no intracellular loop. The N-terminal region, from amino acid 104 to 218, thus remains free in the cytoplasm along with the C terminus, with or without ubiquitin fusion (Figure 3C). GCR1Ct truncated protein (amino acids 271 to 326) is the cytoplasmic tail of GCR1, from the end of the 7th transmembrane region to the C-terminal end of the protein. This protein contains no transmembrane domains and is predicted to be cytoplasmic. To ascertain the regions of GCR1 required for interaction with GPA1, we used these truncated constructs in split ubiquitin assays. Interaction growth assays on media lacking His and Ade and β-galactosidase activity by X-Gal filter assays were performed using GPA1-Cub protein as bait and GCR1FL (Figure 4A, plate 1), GCR1IL2 (Figure 4A, plate 2), GCR1IL3 (Figure 4A, plate 3), and GCR1Ct (Figure 4A, plate 4) as prey proteins. Assays were also performed with GCR1FL-Cub (Figure 4B, plate 1), GCR1IL2-Cub (Figure 4B, plate 2), GCR1IL3-Cub (Figure 4B, plate 3), and GCR1Ct-Cub (Figure 4B, plate 4) as bait proteins and GPA1 as prey protein. Results in Figure 4A, plates 1 to 4, show that GCR1FL interacts with GPA1 only when GCR1 has a free C terminus (as shown also in Figure 3B). GCR1IL2 also interacts with GPA1 in an identical fashion, showing that the first 105 amino acids are not required for interaction of GCR1 and GPA1. GCR1IL3 fails to interact with GPA1, showing either requirement of amino acids 105 to 119 and/or an intact il3 for the interaction. GCR1Ct Nub fusions also fail to interact with GPA1. None of the GCR1-Cub fusion proteins showed specific interaction with GPA1, confirming the requirement of a free C terminus, though nonspecific interactions were observed with GCR1Ct-Cub protein (Figure 4B, plate 4), possibly because of its very small size. GPA1 does not interact with itself (Figure 4, V, all plates) nor with an unrelated protein, the inward K+ channel protein KAT1 (Figure 4, VI, all plates), supporting the specific nature of the GPA1–GCR1 interactions observed. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the physiological role of GCR1, we first examined the expression pattern of GCR1. Expression could be detected in all cell/tissue types assessed by RT-PCR, including stomatal guard cells (Figure 5A). We then took a reverse genetic approach and isolated knockout mutants in this gene. Two different mutant lines, gcr1-3 and gcr1-4, that carry a T-DNA insertion in the GCR1 gene were obtained. The gcr1-3 mutant, harboring a T-DNA insertion in intron 2 (at 506 bp) of the GCR1 gene (Figure 5B), was found in a PCR screen of a collection of 72,960 T-DNA–inserted Arabidopsis lines (Arabidopsis Knockout Facility, University of Wisconsin, BASTA population) using a GCR1-specific primer and a T-DNA left border–specific primer (CITATION). The genetic background for this mutant line is ecotype Wassilewskija (Ws). The gcr1-4 mutant, harboring a T-DNA insertion in intron 3 (at 733 bp) of the GCR1 gene (Figure 5B), was obtained from the SAIL collection of Torrey Mesa Research Institute (TMRI; Syngenta). The genetic background for this mutant line is ecotype Columbia (Col). Both insertions were confirmed by sequencing of the genomic PCR products. To confirm that both gcr1-3 and gcr1-4 are transcript-null alleles, RT-PCR analysis was performed with RNA isolated from wild-type and mutant plants. Indeed, using primers that flank the insertion site, gcr1-3 and gcr1-4 plants did not yield an RT-PCR product under standard growth conditions that revealed the presence of GCR1 transcript in wild-type plants (Figure 5C). [[FIGURE]] Because GCR1 is predicted to be an integral membrane protein with a 7TM structure, we determined the GCR1 protein expression level in soluble and membrane fractions of Arabidopsis leaves. Genetically complemented gcr1-3 plants expressing GCR1 as a FLAG-tagged protein under a glucocorticoid-inducible promoter were used as a source of protein after a 24-h induction with Dex. As shown in Figure 6A, most but not all GCR1 protein was detected in the membrane fractions isolated from the GCR1:FLAG plants (lanes 1, S and M). As expected, no protein could be detected with anti-FLAG antibodies in the noncomplemented gcr1-3 plants (lanes 2, S and M). [[FIGURE]] Because GCR1 and GPA1 proteins interact in planta, we also evaluated expression of GPA1 protein in the gcr1 mutant backgrounds. As shown in Figure 6B, GPA1 is a membrane-associated protein. Both gcr1-3 (lane 2) and gcr1-4 (lane 4) show lower levels of GPA1 protein compared with the respective wild-type ecotypes (lanes 1 and 3). Because one of the signals transduced by GPA1 is ABA (CITATION; CITATION), we examined responses of gcr1-3 and gcr1-4 mutants to this hormone. One of the classic responses regulated by ABA is inhibition of root growth (CITATION). Wild-type seedlings germinated on control media show a marked inhibition of root growth when transferred to media containing 0.5 to 10 μM ABA compared with seedlings transferred to control (no ABA) media (CITATION). Wild-type and gcr1 plants are identical when grown under normal growth conditions, but in the presence of ABA, root growth of gcr1 seedlings is markedly more sensitive to inhibition by ABA compared with wild-type plants (Figure 7). gcr1 root growth approached complete arrest when ABA concentration was >5 μM, whereas wild-type plants continued to show some growth. [[FIGURE]] We also looked at the expression profiles of various stress- and ABA-regulated genes (CITATION) in wild-type and gcr1 plants under control and ABA treated conditions. By RT-PCR, both gcr1-3 and gcr1-4 showed higher expression levels of a set of ABA and stress-regulated genes as compared with their wild-type counterparts (data not shown). We confirmed and extended these observations by real-time quantitative PCR. Ws and gcr1-3 and Col and gcr1-4 plants were grown under identical conditions (wild type and gcr1 side by side on the same media plates) on 0.5× MS media, 1% sucrose (control), or 0.5× MS media, 1% sucrose plates supplemented with 0.3 μM ABA (ABA). No visible phenotypic differences were seen between wild-type and mutant plants under these low ABA concentrations. Total RNA was isolated from 10-d-old seedlings, reverse transcribed, and used for real-time PCR in the presence of SYBR-Green intercalating dye. Amplification of the ACTIN2/8 gene under identical conditions served as an internal control. Results obtained are plotted as ratios of fold change in expression level of particular genes in gcr1-3 and Ws plants (Figure 8A) and gcr1-4 and Col plants (Figure 8B). The ratios of gcr1 controls to wild-type (WT) controls show higher basal levels of expression of most of these stress and ABA-regulated genes in gcr1 plants, without any exogenous ABA treatment. Ratios of WT-ABA to WT-control and gcr1-ABA to gcr1-control illustrate that these genes are expressed at higher levels after ABA treatment in both wild-type and gcr1 plants (with the exception of kin2 and DREB1A). Ratios of gcr1-ABA to WT-ABA show that these genes are expressed at a higher level in gcr1 plants compared with wild-type plants after ABA treatment. Comparison between gcr1-control/WT control and gcr1-ABA/WT-ABA also shows that the expression level in gcr1 lines is hypersensitive to ABA and is not solely because of initial differences in the expression levels of these genes. Similar trends were obtained with both gcr1-3 and gcr1-4, although quantitative differences, possibly because of differential ABA sensitivity of the different genotypic backgrounds (Ws versus Col) were also observed. Wild-type and gcr1 mutant plants show no difference in endogenous ABA levels, as detected by direct competitive ELISA measurements using the AGDIA immunodetection kit (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Because gcr1 plants exhibited relatively higher levels of ABA/stress-induced transcripts, we examined the effect of drought stress on these plants. Wild-type and mutant gcr1 plants show no difference in their growth and maturity under normal growth conditions; however, significant differences were observed when plants were drought stressed by withholding water for 12 d. As shown in Figure 9, wild-type plants dried faster and withered when withdrawn from water for 12 d. After rewatering, gcr1 plants showed highly improved recovery compared with wild-type plants. Only one of the 20 wild-type plants survived to maturity when rewatered, whereas all 20 gcr1 plants survived the treatment and completed their life cycle. [[FIGURE]] The enhanced drought tolerance of the gcr1 plants could result, at least in part, from the gcr1 plants having lower transpiration rates, as has been shown for other ABA hypersensitive mutants (CITATION). When measured by the fresh weight loss of detached rosette leaves, the water loss rates of gcr1-3 and gcr1-4 mutant leaves were indeed ∼50% of those of the wild-type leaves (Figure 10). [[FIGURE]] Based on the gcr1 drought stress and water loss phenotypes and also because GCR1 is expressed in guard cells and GPA1 is known to play a role in guard cell ABA responses (CITATION; CITATION), we analyzed the responsiveness of gcr1 stomata to ABA in isolated epidermal peels. ABA at concentrations 20 to 50 μM inhibits opening of preclosed stomata and promotes closure of opened stomata in wild-type Arabidopsis plants (CITATION). Both gcr1-3 and gcr1-4 guard cells were hypersensitive to both inhibition of opening of preclosed stomata (Figure 11A) and promotion of closure of preopened stomata (Figure 11B) by ABA. gcr1 plants respond to S1P in an identical fashion as they do to ABA: gcr1 guard cells are hypersensitive to S1P-induced inhibition of stomatal opening (Figure 12A) and S1P-induced promotion of stomatal closure (Figure 12B) compared with their respective wild-type ecotypes. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana gcr1-3 insertion mutant (Ws background) was isolated by screening the collection of activation tagged T-DNA insertion lines (BASTA population) available at the Arabidopsis Knockout Facility (University of Wisconsin–Madison; www.biotech.wisc.edu/arabidopsis). Primers specific for the T-DNA left (5′-cattttataataacgctgcggacatctac-3′) and T-DNA right (5′-tgggaaaacctggcgttacccaacttaat-3′) borders were used in combination with GCR1 specific forward primer 5′-gaaatcgtcaattcaatctctagatcagt-3′ and reverse primer 5′-ttcgtgttcccaaagaatgtttcatatac-3′ to identify the insertion. The gcr1-4 T-DNA insertional mutant (Col background) was obtained from the SAIL collection of TMRI (Syngenta, Research Triangle Park, NC). Both the insertions were confirmed by sequencing. Full-length GCR1 cDNA fused with a C-terminal FLAG tag cloned in the glucocorticoid-inducible vector pTA7002 (CITATION) was introduced into gcr1-3 plants via Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected by hygromycin resistance and confirmed by PCR with gene-specific primers. Wild-type (Ws and Col) and homozygous gcr1 mutant seeds were first germinated on 0.5× MS media plates containing 1% sucrose. Robust plants were transferred to soil after 10 d of growth on plates. Plants were grown in controlled environment growth chambers under a 16-h-dark (20°C)/8-h-light (22°C) cycle. The light intensity was 150 μmol·m−2·s−1 for Ws and gcr1-3 plants and 120 μmol·m−2·s−1 for Col and gcr1-4 plants. For ABA inhibition of root growth, wild-type and mutant seeds were germinated in darkness on 0.5× MS plates containing 1% sucrose. After 2 d, germinated seeds were transferred to 0.5× MS, 1% sucrose plates containing different concentrations of ABA (AG Scientific, San Diego, CA). Root length was recorded after 5 d of growth. Full-length and truncated GCR1 cDNA fragments were cloned in pCite (2b) vector (Novagen, Madison, WI). GPA1 full-length cDNA and a putative protein kinase cDNA were fused in frame with the GAL4 activation domain of yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), and the whole cassette was cloned in pCite (2b) vector. The constructs were used for in vitro transcription/translation reactions using the STP3 kit (Novagen) according to the manufacturer's instructions using translation grade 35S-Met (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ) except for the kinase-GAD fusion protein. For Kinase-GAD, the transcription/translation was performed in the presence of cold Met. The binding reaction was performed by mixing 20 μL of anti-GAD Agarose beads (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA) with 20 μL of GCR1 translation mix and 20 μL of GPA1-GAD translation mix in 500 μL of binding buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 0.1% BSA, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF), 1× protease cocktail mix (Roche, Indianapolis, IN), and 0.01% Triton X-100). The reaction mix was agitated at 4°C overnight. The beads were washed five times with 3 mL of washing buffer (binding buffer without BSA, PMSF, and protease cocktail). Beads were spun down and mixed with SDS-PAGE sample buffer and boiled for 5 min and proteins separated by SDS-PAGE. After electrophoresis, the gel was dried and exposed for autoradiography. Transmembrane regions and topology of GCR1 were predicted using Simple Modular Architecture Retrieval Tool (SMART version 3.5) and transmembrane hidden Markov model (TMHMM version 2.0) programs. Overall similarity of GCR1 with other GPCR-like proteins was determined by PSI-BLAST. Vectors and interaction assays used for split ubiquitin analysis have been described elsewhere (CITATION; CITATION). Briefly, GCR1FL (full-length cDNA), GCR1IL2 (sequence from amino acid 105 to the C terminus), GCR1IL3 (sequence from amino acid 184 to the C terminus), and GCR1Ct (sequence from amino acid 271 to the C terminus) were cloned in Cub, NubG, and Nubwt vectors by in vivo recombination cloning. GPA1 full-length sequence was also cloned in both Cub and Nub vectors. Interaction was determined by growth of diploid yeast colonies on media lacking His and Ade but containing 200 μM Met and also by β-galactosidase activity by X-Gal filter assay (CITATION). Total proteins were extracted from 4-week-old soil-grown gcr1-3 and GCR1:FLAG complemented gcr1-3 plants. For induction of GCR1-FLAG protein, plants were treated with 30 mM Dex for 24 h. Noninduced (control) plants were left untreated. Protein was extracted by grinding the leaves (0.4 g) on ice in 3 volumes of extraction buffer. Protein concentration in each lysate was adjusted to the same value, and equal volumes (1 mL) of lysates were transferred to new centrifuge tubes. Supernatants were mixed with anti-GPA1 or anti-FLAG antibodies and incubated at 4°C overnight with agitation. After incubation, 100 μL of protein A–Sepharose (Amersham Biosciences) was added to precipitate the antigen-antibody complex. The protein A–agarose beads were collected after 1 h of incubation at 4°C by centrifugation at 10,000g for 20 s. The beads were then washed five times with 5 mL of extraction buffer. The antigen-antibody complex was eluted by boiling in SDS sample buffer (CITATION) and run on a 12% SDS-PAGE gel. Proteins immunoprecipitated with anti-GPA1 antibodies were probed with anti-FLAG antibodies and vice versa by immunoblotting. Total protein extracts were obtained from Arabidopsis plants by grinding whole seedlings or leaf tissue first in liquid nitrogen and then on ice in 3 volumes of extraction buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 50 mM sucrose, 1 mM PMSF, 0.1% Triton X-100, and 1× plant protease inhibitor cocktail; Roche). Lysates (1 mL each) were cleared of debris by centrifugation at 12,000g for 20 min at 4°C. Cleared lysate was centrifuged at 100,000g at 4°C for 1 h to separate membrane (pellet) and soluble fractions. Protein concentrations in the extracts were measured by the CITATION assay (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). Twenty micrograms of proteins from each extract was separated on a 12% SDS-PAGE gel and then transferred onto a nitrocellulose membrane. The blots were probed with polyclonal antibodies against GPA1 (from A.M. Jones, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill) or anti-FLAG Monoclonal M2 antibody (Sigma, St. Louis, MO). The antibodies were diluted in blocking buffer (1× Tris-buffered saline [TBS] containing 5% nonfat milk and 0.5% Tween 20) to 1:10,000. After washing in 1× TTBS (TBS containing 0.5% Tween 20), the blots were probed with appropriate secondary antibodies conjugated with horseradish peroxidase (1:10,000 dilution). The antibody-bound proteins were detected by a chemiluminescence reaction using the SuperSignal Kit (Pierce, Rockford, IL). RNA was isolated from different plant tissue or cell types (for RT-PCR analysis) or from 10-d-old seedlings grown on 0.5× MS plates containing or lacking 0.3 μM ABA (for quantitative real-time PCR analysis). Total RNA was isolated using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) and treated with RNase free DNase I (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). Two micrograms of total RNA was reverse transcribed using the Superscript II RT kit (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. cDNA was diluted at a concentration of 1:100, aliquoted, and kept at 4°C throughout each experiment to avoid discrepancy in the data because of freeze-thaw cycles. To determine expression of GCR1 in different plant parts, GCR1 was amplified using primers GCR1-RTF 5′-acagcggaaatcgtcaattc-3′ and GCR1-RTR 5′-ccccaaatgtgagtggttgt-3′. To assess whether gcr1-3 and gcr1-4 are transcript null alleles, cDNA from wild-type and mutant seedlings was amplified using gene-specific primers flanking the insertion sites: GCR1-KORTF (5′-agcaaatcagatcgccttgt-3′) and GCR1-KORTR (5′-gaacgtatgacagtcacaac-3′). For quantitative real-time PCR, amplification was performed with oligonucleotides specific for various ABA- and stress-induced genes: RD29A forward (5′-atcacttggctccactgttgttc-3′) and RD29A reverse (5′-acaaaacacacataaacatccaaagt-3′); RAB18 forward (5′-cagcagcagtatgacgagta-3′) and RAB18 reverse (5′-cagttccaaagccttcagtc-3′); KIN1 forward (5′-accaacaagaatgccttcca-3′) and KIN1 reverse (5′-ccgcatccgatacactcttt-3′); KIN2 forward (5′-accaacaagaatgccttcca-3′) and KIN2 reverse (5′-actgccgcatccgatatact-3′); DREB1A forward (5′-gatcagcctgtctcaatttc-3′) and DREB1A reverse (5′-cttctgccatattagccaac-3′); DREB2A forward (5′-aaggtaaaggaggaccagag-3′) and DREB2A reverse (5′-acacaaccaggagtctcaac-3′); ERD10 forward (5′-tctctgaaccagagtcgttt-3′) and ERD10 reverse (5′-cttcttctcaccgtcttcac-3′). Amplification of ACTIN2/8 (forward primer 5′-ggtaacattgtgctcagtggtgg-3′ and reverse primer 5′-aacgaccttaatcttcatgctgc-3′) genes was used as an internal control (CITATION). The position of the oligonucleotides used for real-time PCR was chosen so that the size of all PCR products was between 200 and 250 bp. The suitability of the oligonucleotide sequences in term of efficiency of annealing was evaluated in advance using the Primer 3 program. Real-time quantitative PCR experiments were repeated thrice independently, and the data were averaged. For real-time quantitative-PCR, the cDNA was amplified in the presence of SYBR-GreenR I intercalating dye (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) at 0.125× final concentration using a DNA Engine Opticon 2 thermal cycler (MJ Research, Watertown, MA). The data obtained were analyzed with Opticon 2 software (MJ Research). Four-week-old plants were drought treated by withholding water for 12 d. Plants were rewatered from the bottom on the 13th day to determine recovery after drought. Observations were recorded 2 d after rewatering. Guard cell protoplasts and mesophyll cell protoplasts were isolated according to CITATION. Assays of water loss and stomatal responses were performed according to CITATION, CITATION, and CITATION. Briefly, for water loss experiments, detached leaves of Ws, Col, gcr1-3, and gcr1-4 were kept under controlled humidity and air flow, and rate of water loss was measured as percentage of initial fresh weight. For stomatal aperture measurements, leaves from wild-type Ws and Col and gcr1-3 and gcr1-4 plants were kept in darkness for 2 h and then transferred to light (450 μmol·m−2s−1) for 3 h in the presence of ABA (20 μM for Ws and gcr1-3 and 50 μM for Col and gcr1-4) or S1P (10 μM) to study inhibition of opening. For promotion of closure experiments, leaves were first kept in light for 2 h followed by addition of ABA (20 μM for Ws and gcr1-3; 50 μM for Col and gcr1-4) or S1P (10 μM). Apertures were recorded after 3 h of further incubation in light. Wild-type and gcr1 mutant plants were grown on 0.5× MS media plates containing 1% sucrose. Seedlings (3 g fresh weight for each sample) were harvested after 10 d of growth and ground in liquid N2. Samples were prepared according to CITATION. ABA levels in the samples were determined by competitive ELISA using the AGDIA immunodetection kit (Elkhart, IN) according to manufacturer's instructions. The experiment was repeated twice. The TMRI/Syngenta gcr1-4 line is available by request from Syngenta. Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession numbers At1g48270 for GCR1, At2g26300 for GPA1, and At5g66890 for the putative protein kinase.
