!~ABS~! SPINDLY (SPY) is a negative regulator of gibberellin signaling in Arabidopsis thaliana that also functions in previously undefined pathways. The N terminus of SPY contains a protein–protein interaction domain consisting of 10 tetratricopeptide repeats (TPRs). GIGANTEA (GI) was recovered from a yeast two-hybrid screen for proteins that interact with the TPR domain. GI and SPY also interacted in Escherichia coli and in vitro pull-down assays. The phenotypes of spy and spy-4 gi-2 plants support the hypothesis that SPY functions with GI in pathways controlling flowering, circadian cotyledon movements, and hypocotyl elongation. GI acts in the long-day flowering pathway upstream of CONSTANS (CO) and FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT). Loss of GI function causes late flowering and reduces CO and FT RNA levels. Consistent with SPY functioning in the long-day flowering pathway upstream of CO, spy-4 partially suppressed the reduced abundance of CO and FT RNA and the late flowering of gi-2 plants. Like gi, spy affects the free-running period of cotyledon movements. The free-running period was lengthened in spy-4 mutants and shortened in plants that overexpress SPY under the control of the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus. When grown under red light, gi-2 plants have a long hypocotyl. This hypocotyl phenotype was suppressed in spy-4 gi-2 double mutants. Additionally, dark-grown and far-red-light–grown spy-4 seedlings were found to have short and long hypocotyls, respectively. The different hypocotyl length phenotypes of spy-4 seedlings grown under different light conditions are consistent with SPY acting in the GA pathway to inhibit hypocotyl elongation and also acting as a light-regulated promoter of elongation.
!~RES~! The N terminus of SPY contains 10 TPR repeats. TPRs mediate interactions with other proteins (CITATION). Previously, the TPRs of SPY were shown to participate in SPY–SPY interactions (CITATION). Because the large number of SPY TPRs suggested that SPY could interact with additional proteins, we conducted a yeast two-hybrid screen for Arabidopsis proteins that interact with this domain. A clone encoding the C-terminal third (amino acids 788 to 1173) of GI was recovered multiple times. Although the interaction between GI and the TPR domain of SPY was sufficient to activate LacZ and HIS3, the two reporter genes used in this assay, no activation of these genes occurred when GI was tested with the TPR domain of Mbb1 (CITATION), an unrelated protein from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii (Figure 1A), suggesting that the interaction is specific to the TPR domain of SPY. The interaction also occurred when GI and SPY were reversed as bait and prey and when full-length SPY was used as a bait (Figure 1B). [[FIGURE]] The TPR domain of SPY interacted with GI in an in vitro pull-down assay (Figure 2A). In three independent in vitro interaction assays, more 35S-labeled GI protein interacted with a maltose binding protein (MBP)-SPY TPR fusion than with MBP alone. In addition, full-length SPY and GI were found to interact in Escherichia coli cells (Figure 2B). MBP and MBP-GI were coexpressed in E. coli with S-tagged full-length SPY. When MBP and MBP-GI were affinity purified from cell-free lysates, S-tagged SPY copurified with MBP-GI but not MBP. Similar results were obtained in three independent experiments. Full-length SPY also interacted with GI in an in vitro pull-down assay (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The spy-2 mutation causes missplicing of SPY RNA, leading to deletion of portions of TPRs 8 and 9 (CITATION). The effects of the spy-2 mutation on the interaction of SPY with wild-type SPY TPR and GI were examined (Figure 1C). The spy-2 mutation weakened the interaction with wild-type SPY TPR and increased the interaction with GI. GI encodes a novel nuclear protein that participates in responses, including photoperiodic induction of flowering, functioning of the circadian clock, and inhibition of hypocotyl elongation by red light (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). gi seedlings are hyposensitive to red light and exhibit a long hypocotyl phenotype when grown under red light (CITATION). Evidence that the interaction between SPY and GI plays a functional role was sought by determining the length of the hypocotyl of wild-type, spy-4, gi-2, and spy-4 gi-2 double mutants growing under different light conditions. Under red light, gi-2 exhibited the expected long hypocotyl phenotype, whereas spy-4 and the double mutant were indistinguishable from the wild type (Figure 3). This result is consistent with spy-4 being epistatic to gi-2 and, furthermore, suggests that GI and SPY function in a common pathway. [[FIGURE]] The hypocotyl of dark-grown gi-2 was indistinguishable from the wild type but was slightly longer than the wild type when grown under far-red light (Figure 3). This long hypocotyl phenotype of gi-2 has been seen previously (see Figure 1B in CITATION). As expected (CITATION), spy-4 seedlings exhibited a short hypocotyl phenotype in the dark, but surprisingly, plants grown under far-red illumination had a long hypocotyl. The hypocotyl of spy-4 gi-2 plants grown under dark or far-red illumination was indistinguishable or slightly longer than that of spy-4. These results suggest that SPY has several roles in hypocotyl elongation (Figure 4A). One of these roles is to negatively regulate GA signaling and the second is to act as a red-light-inhibited promoter of elongation. Because far-red light inhibits GA biosynthesis (CITATION), we hypothesized that the long hypocotyl phenotype of far red–grown spy-4 seedlings was because of the loss of inhibition of GA signaling. This hypothesis requires that the loss of SPY's negative regulation of GA signaling has a greater impact on hypocotyl length than the loss of the positive role. A prediction of this hypothesis is that negating the far-red-light–induced reduction in GA levels by supplying GA3 to wild-type and spy-4 seedlings will reveal the positive role of SPY in hypocotyl elongation. This prediction was tested by examining the hypocotyl length of wild-type, gi-2, spy-4, and spy-4 gi-2 seedlings grown on different concentrations of GA3 (Figure 5). As predicted by the model, at the highest concentration of GA3, spy-4 and spy-4 gi-2 hypocotyls were shorter than the wild type and gi-2. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Flowering in Arabidopsis can be induced by environmental signals, including photoperiod, and endogenous pathways, including the GA-signaling pathway (CITATION; CITATION). GI functions in the long-day pathway (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The flowering time of gi plants grown under inductive long-day conditions is delayed. spy plants flower early. Although activation of the GA pathway in spy plants is likely, at least in part, to account for the early flowering of these mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), the interaction between SPY and GI raises the possibility that SPY also acts in the long-day pathway. To determine if SPY acts in the long-day pathway, the effects of daily treatment with high doses of GA3 and spy-4 on the flowering time of the wild type and gi-2 in the Columbia background and gi-3 in the Landsberg erecta (Ler) background were compared (Figure 6). In this experiment, plants were sprayed daily to runoff with 5 × 10−4 M GA3, a treatment regime that suppresses the delayed flowering of ga1, an extreme GA biosynthesis mutant (CITATION), more effectively than spy-4 (Figure 7). Consistent with SPY acting in both the GA signaling and long-day pathways, spy-4 more effectively suppressed the late flowering of gi-2 and gi-3 than treatment with GA3. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] CO and FT are positive-acting components of the long-day pathway (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). CO acts downstream of GI and upstream of FT. The effects of spy-4 and GA3 treatment on the flowering time of co-2 and ft-1, weak loss-of-function alleles (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), were compared (Figures 6C and 6D). GA3 was similarly effective in suppressing gi-3, co-2, and ft-1. By contrast, spy-4 suppression of gi-3, co-2, and ft-1 was progressively weaker (Figures 6C and 6D) as the mutations acted further downstream in the pathway (Figure 4B). Considering that co-2 and ft-1 are leaky alleles, these results are consistent with SPY acting upstream of CO and FT. The levels of CO and FT RNA are reduced by gi (CITATION). If SPY and GI act as a complex in the photoperiod pathway, the mechanisms of suppression of the late flowering of gi by spy may involve increasing CO and FT RNA abundance. CO and FT RNA abundance was determined in wild-type, gi-2, spy-4, and spy-4 gi-2 plants growing under 18L/6D cycles every 4 h for 24 h (Figure 8). At each time point, the CO and FT RNA levels in spy-4 gi-2 plants were elevated over gi-2 plants. [[FIGURE]] The cotyledon movement of Arabidopsis seedlings has been shown to be under the circadian control (CITATION). gi mutations caused alterations in the period and amplitude of the movement. The free-running period and amplitude of cotyledon movement were determined in wild-type, gi, spy, and gi-2 spy-4 seedlings and seedlings overexpressing SPY under the control of the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus (CITATION) (Figure 9, Table 1). As was observed previously (CITATION), all gi alleles greatly reduced the amplitude of the rhythm. Although spy had no effect on the amplitude of the rhythm, the period was lengthened in each of the three spy alleles and reduced in seedlings that overexpress SPY. The reduction in the amplitude of the rhythm of gi plants was not suppressed by spy-4. To determine if the defect in spy and gi plants was specific to plants entrained with light/dark cycles, cotyledon movements were also monitored in plant entrained using temperature cycles. For all of the genotypes, the results were similar to those of plant entrained using light/dark cycles. [[FIGURE]] Alterations of Circadian Period in SPY Loss-of-Function and Gain-of-Function Seedlings
!~MM~! Plasmids expressing SPY bait and prey proteins were constructed in pAS1-CYH2 and pACT II as described previously (CITATION). Plasmids expressing prey protein were prepared from an Arabidopsis thaliana λ-ACT cDNA expression library (CITATION) obtained from the ABRC (Columbus, Ohio; stock number CD4-22). Yeast transformation and library screenings were conducted as described by CITATION. To test the specificity of the interaction, plasmid DNA from interacting clones was rescued and retransformed into the yeast cell line Y190 expressing a bait protein consisting of the TPR domain of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii Mbb1. The plasmid expressing Mbb1 as bait was constructed by subcloning the BamHI to SalI fragment from an Mbb1 cDNA clone (CITATION) into the corresponding sites of pAS1-CYH2. A plasmid expressing GI as bait, pDB-GI, was constructed by subcloning the GI coding region from a GI prey clone identified in the original two-hybrid screen into pAS1-CYH2. The GI coding region was PCR amplified using the primers 5′-TCGACTGCAGCCCAAAGTTGTGCC-3′ and 5′-GGGTGCCTGCAGTTGGGACAAGGA-3′, which generated PstI sites that were used for the subcloning. To introduce the spy-2 mutation into the bait-TPR, SPY cDNA was amplified in separate reactions with primer sets of 5′-TTTCCCCTGATAACACTCCACAGCT-3′ plus BINF, 5′-AGTTACAAAAAAATGGTGGGACTGGAAGATG-3′ and 5′-TATCAGGGGAAAATGGATGCTG-3′ plus JP58, 5′-GAGATCCAGCCATTAGAT-3′, for 20 cycles as described (CITATION). Equal amounts of both PCR products were combined and reamplified with the BINF and JP58 primers at annealing temperature of 40°C for 20 cycles. The reamplified products were digested with PstI and BamHI, then subcloned to the pAS-TPR plasmid digested with PstI and BamHI. To test the physiological association of SPY's TPR and GI, in vitro binding assays were conducted using the TPR domain of SPY expressed as a fusion protein with the bacterial MBP (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA) as described previously (CITATION). The SPY open reading frame was PCR amplified using the primers 5′-ACCCGACGTCATGGTGGGACTGGAAGATGA-3′ and 5′-TTTGCGGCCGCCAGCACGTCGATTTGCTGGT-3′, primers that incorporated AatII and NotI sites at the 5′- and 3′-ends of the open reading frame, respectively. PCR was performed in a 50-μL reaction containing 7.5 ng of a SacI-linearized SPY cDNA clone in pBluescript KS− with Pfx DNA polymerase as recommended by the supplier (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). The PCR product was digested with AatII and NotI and cloned into pETCOCO-1 (Novagen, Madison, WI). The construct was sequenced to confirm that it was correct. The resulting construct, pETCOCO:SPY, expresses a His-tag:S-tag:SPY fusion protein under the control of the T7 RNA polymerase promoter. The plasmid pMAL-GI, which expresses an MBP-GI fusion protein, was produced by subcloning a PstI fragment from pDB-GI into pMAL-c2 (New England Biolabs). The E. coli strain OragamiB (Novagen) was cotransformed with pETCOCO:SPY and pMAL-c2 or pMAL-GI. The resulting strains were grown in LB medium containing 1% (w/v) glucose, 15 μg/mL of chloramphenicol, and 75 μg/mL of ampicillin. For protein expression, cultures were grown to an OD600 of 0.5 at 25°C, isopropylthio-β-galactoside was added to 1 mM, and the culture was grown for an additional 2 h. The cells were then collected by centrifugation, and the pellet was stored at −20°C. Cell were resuspended in 6 mL of 25 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 0.1 mM EDTA, 0.5 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 1 mM DTT, 0.1% Triton X-100, and 1× Complete Mini EDTA-free protease inhibitor cocktail tablets (Roche Diagnostics, Mannheim, Germany) and lysed using a French press. The lysate was cleared by centrifugation at 12,000 rpm in a JA20 rotor for 15 min. After centrifugation, 6 mL of 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 200 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM NaN3, 10 mM β-mercaptoethanol, and 30 μL of amylose resin (New England Biolabs) were added. After agitation at 4°C for 2 h, the amylose resin and associated MBP proteins were collected by centrifugation at 2000 rpm in a JA20 rotor for 30 s. The pelleted resin was transferred to a 1.5-mL microfuge tube and washed three times with 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 200 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM NaN3, and 10 mM β-mercaptoethanol. The washed pellet was resuspended in 4× SDS loading buffer and boiled for 2 min. The proteins released from the resin were resolved by SDS-PAGE and transferred to a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane. S-tagged proteins were detected using an S-tag antibody conjugated with horseradish peroxidase as recommended by the supplier (Novagen). The blot was stripped and then probed with anti-MBP monoclonal antibody as recommended by the supplier (New England Biolabs). Bound antibody was detected with protein A conjugated with horseradish peroxidase (Sigma, St. Louis, MO). The Arabidopsis gi-2 mutant was obtained from the ABRC. The spy-4 mutation was backcrossed into the Columbia background six times (CITATION). Seeds were surface sterilized (CITATION) and grown according to CITATION. In some experiments, GA3 (Sigma) was included in the growth medium. The fluence rates were monitored using a LiCor-1800 spectroradiometer (LiCor, Lincoln, NE). Seedlings were germinated in the dark (at 21°C) or under continuous red light (4.49 μmol m−2 s−1 at 21°C) or continuous far-red light (6.6 μmol m−2 s−1 at 24°C) for 6 d. gi and wild-type seedlings grown under similar conditions have been previously shown to exhibit differences in hypocotyl elongation (CITATION). Hypocotyl length was measured under a dissecting microscope with an ocular micrometer. Similar results were obtained in two independent experiments. The F1 seeds of the crosses between spy-4 and gi-3, co-2, and ft-1, all in the Ler background, were a gift from S. Jacobsen. F1 seeds were also generated by crossing spy-4 in the Columbia background (see above) and gi-2. It was possible to identify the spy-4 gi-3, spy-4 co-2, spy-4 ft-1, and spy-4 gi-2 double mutants in the F2 populations because they germinated in the presence of paclobutrazol (35 mg/L) and flowered later than the other plants selected under these conditions. For determination of flowering time, plants were grown in a growth chamber under long-day conditions (16L/8D) at 22 to 23°C. The rosette leaf, cauline leaf number, and the number of days to flowering were recorded when petals of the first flower were visible. Although both the leaf number and days to flowering showed similar trends, only the leaf number data are presented. For GA treatment, the GA3 solution was replenished from a GA3 stock solution of 10 mg/mL (in 95% ethanol) every 2 d. Separate plants grown under the long-day conditions were sprayed with 5 × 10−4 M of GA3 everyday. Control plants were sprayed with 1.6% of ethanol everyday. Tissues of 2-week-old plants growing under long-day conditions (18L/6D) at 22°C were harvested approximately every 4 h for 24 h after dawn. Total RNA was extracted with TRI reagent (Molecular Research Center, Cincinnati, OH) and treated with RNase-free DNase I (Promega, Madison, WI). Approximately 2 μg of total RNA were used to synthesize the first-strand cDNA with SuperScript first-strand synthesis system for RT-PCR (Invitrogen) following the manufacturer's instructions. PCR was performed according to CITATION. In the same reaction tube, first-strand cDNAs were amplified with a UBQ10 primer pair (5′-AACTTTCTCTCAATTCTCTCTACC-3′ and 5′-CTTCTTAAGCATAACAGAGACGAG-3′) (CITATION) and either CO primers (5′-ATGTTGAAACAAGAGAGTAACG-3′ and 5′-GTTATGGTTAATGGAACCATTG-3′) or FT primers (5′-GATATCCCTGCTACAACTGG-3′ and 5′-TAGATGCATAAATCTCATCAGAG-3′). Under the conditions used, production of all PCR products was found to increase linearly between cycles 20 and 35 (data not shown); therefore, the PCR products were quantitated after 25 cycles. PCR products were separated in 0.8% agarose gel, then transferred to nylon membranes (Osmonics, Westborough, MA). The membranes were probed with 32P-labeled UBQ10, CO, and FT probes separately. The autoradiograms were scanned, and signal intensities were quantitated using NIH Image software. Assessment of rhythmicity in cotyledon movement was performed as described (CITATION; CITATION). Seeds were surface sterilized by the vapor-phase method (CITATION) and then plated on MS salts + 2% sucrose. For light entrainment, seedlings were grown under white light (70 to 80 μmol m−2 s−1) for 5 d in a 12-h-light/12-h-dark photoperiod. For temperature entrainment, seedlings were grown under white light (30 to 40 μmol m−2 s−1) for 7 d in a 12-h 22°C/12-h 12°C temperature regime. On the fifth or seventh day, seedlings were transferred to 24-well cloning plates (Greiner Labortechnik, Frickenhausen, Germany), and the plates were released into continuous white light (30 to 40 μmol m−2 s−1) and constant temperature of 22°C. Cotyledon movement was recorded every 20 min over 7 d by Panasonic CCTV cameras (Model WV-BP120; Matsushita Communications Industrial, Laguna, Philippines). Post-run analysis was performed using the Kujata software program (CITATION, CITATION), and traces were analyzed by fast-Fourier transform-nonlinear least squares (CITATION).
