!~ABS~! DELLA proteins restrain the cell proliferation and enlargement that characterizes the growth of plant organs. Gibberellin stimulates growth via 26S proteasome–dependent destruction of DELLAs, thus relieving DELLA-mediated growth restraint. Here, we show that the Arabidopsis thaliana sleepy1gar2-1 (sly1gar2-1) mutant allele encodes a mutant subunit (sly1gar2-1) of an SCFSLY1 E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. SLY1 (the wild-type form) and sly1gar2-1 both confer substrate specificity on this complex via specific binding to the DELLA proteins. However, sly1gar2-1 interacts more strongly with the DELLA target than does SLY1. In addition, the strength of the SCFSLY1–DELLA interaction is increased by target phosphorylation. Growth-promoting DELLA destruction is dependent on SLY1 availability, on the strength of the interaction between SLY1 and the DELLA target, and on promotion of the SCFSLY1–DELLA interaction by DELLA phosphorylation.
!~RES~! gai confers dwarfism because it encodes a mutant DELLA protein (gai) that is relatively resistant to the opposing effects of GA (CITATION). Although gar2-1 was known to suppress gai phenotype (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION), it was not clear how gar2-1 affected the properties of the gai protein. We therefore further investigated the effect of gar2-1 on gai. Expression of a 35S:gai-GFP (green fluorescent protein) transgene confers dwarfism that is more severe than that conferred by the original gai mutant allele (Figure 1A; CITATION). We found that 35S:gai-GFP gar2-1 plants were considerably less dwarfed than 35S:gai-GFP controls (Figure 1A). Thus, gar2-1 suppresses the phenotype conferred by 35S:gai-GFP. RNA gel blot analyses showed that the levels of gai-GFP transcripts in 35S:gai-GFP gar2-1 plants were not detectably different from those in 35S:gai-GFP controls (Figure 1B). This suggests that gar2-1 suppresses 35S:gai-GFP phenotype via a mechanism other than reduction of gai-GFP transcript levels. [[FIGURE]] We next investigated the effect of gar2-1 on gai-GFP fluorescence. gai-GFP was clearly detectable in 35S:gai-GFP root cell nuclei and was not detectably affected by GA treatment (Figure 1C; CITATION). However, gai-GFP fluorescence was considerably less intense in 35S:gai-GFP gar2-1 than it was in 35S:gai-GFP controls (Figure 1C). In addition, the intensity of gai-GFP fluorescence in 35S:gai-GFP gar2-1 roots was further reduced by GA treatment (Figure 1C). Thus, gar2-1 causes both a reduction in initial gai-GFP levels and a further reduction in gai-GFP levels in response to exogenous GA. We also investigated the possibility that gar2-1 suppression is not specific to phenotypes conferred by gai and that gar2-1 also affects the properties of GAI and RGA. 35S:GAI-GFP transgenes confer dwarfism because of high-level expression of GAI-GFP (CITATION; Figure 1D). We found that 35S:GAI-GFP gar2-1 plants were less dwarfed than 35S:GAI-GFP controls (Figure 1D). Fluorescence because of GAI-GFP was clearly detectable in 35S:GAI-GFP root nuclei and not detectably changed by treatment with exogenous GA (Figure 1E; CITATION). However, the intensity of GAI-GFP fluorescence was reduced in the nuclei of 35S:GAI-GFP gar2-1 roots compared with 35S:GAI-GFP roots. In addition, the intensity of GAI-GFP fluorescence in 35S:GAI-GFP gar2-1 roots was further reduced by GA treatment (Figure 1E). Thus, gar2-1 suppresses the dwarfism conferred by 35S:GAI-GFP, reduces GAI-GFP levels, and causes a further reduction in GAI-GFP levels in response to exogenous GA. We subsequently examined the effects of gar2-1 on GFP-RGA. Treatment with GA causes a rapid reduction in the intensity of nuclear GFP-RGA fluorescence (Figure 1F; CITATION). We found that the GFP-RGA signal was reduced in the nuclei of pRGA:GFP-RGA gar2-1 roots compared with pRGA:GFP-RGA roots (Figure 1F). Furthermore, GFP-RGA became undetectable earlier in GA-treated pRGA:GFP-RGA gar2-1 roots than it did in GA-treated pRGA:GFP-RGA roots (Figure 1F). Thus, gar2-1 reduces initial GFP-RGA levels and decreases the treatment duration required for GFP-RGA to become undetectable in response to GA. We next isolated gar2-1 via map-based cloning. GAR2 (the presumed wild-type allele of gar2-1) mapped to a region of Arabidopsis chromosome 4 that also contains SLY1 (see Supplemental Figure S1 online). We then detected a nucleotide substitution in the open reading frame of the SLY1 allele from gar2-1 plants (Figure 2A). Furthermore, expression of the mutant SLY1 open reading frame from gar2-1 (from a 35S:sly1gar2-1 transgene) caused complete suppression of gai phenotype (in gai 35S:sly1gar2-1 plants), resulting in plants that had bolt-stem internode lengths and plant color that resembled that of wild-type plants (Figures 2B and 2C). Expression of a control (35S:SLY1) transgene conferred only partial suppression of gai phenotype (Figure 2B; see also below). Thus, gar2-1 is a mutant SLY1 allele, henceforth designated as sly1gar2-1 (and its protein product as sly1gar2-1). The single nucleotide substitution in sly1gar2-1 results in an E138 to K138 amino acid residue substitution in a C-terminal portion (the LSL domain) of the sly1gar2-1 protein (Figure 2A). [[FIGURE]] Because sly1gar2-1 is a mutant SLY1 allele, we further investigated the role of SLY1 in plant growth regulation. Plants lacking SLY1 (e.g., sly1-10 homozygotes; CITATION; CITATION) exhibit dwarfism, reduced GA response, and increased RGA accumulation (CITATION). In addition, lack of RGA partially suppresses sly1-10 phenotype, indicating that the increased RGA accumulation in sly1-10 contributes to the dwarf phenotype that sly1-10 confers (CITATION). However, the relationship between SLY1 and GAI was unknown. We found that lack of GAI (conferred by gai-t6) slightly suppressed and lack of both GAI and RGA (conferred by gai-t6 rga-24) substantially suppressed the dwarfism conferred by sly1-10 (Figure 3A). Suppression from lack of both GAI and RGA was greater than that from lack of RGA alone (Figure 3A; CITATION). Thus, the growth-repressing activity of both GAI and RGA is subject to modulation by SLY1. [[FIGURE]] GAI-GFP is more resistant to GA-induced destabilization than GFP-RGA (CITATION). However, in a line exhibiting a particularly low initial level of GAI-GFP fluorescence (pGAI:GAI-GFP), the intensity of GAI-GFP fluorescence was detectably reduced after GA treatment (Figure 3B). Interestingly, GAI-GFP fluorescence intensity was higher in sly1-10 pGAI:GAI-GFP plants than in pGAI:GAI-GFP controls (Figure 3B). In addition, GAI-GFP fluorescence in sly1-10 pGAI:GAI-GFP plants was not detectably reduced after GA treatment (Figure 3B). Similarly, GFP-RGA levels were higher in sly1-10 pRGA:GFP-RGA plants than in pRGA:GFP-RGA controls, and GFP-RGA fluorescence in sly1-10 pRGA:GFP-RGA plants was not detectably reduced after GA treatment (Figure 3C). Thus, SLY1 reduces the accumulation of both GAI-GFP and GFP-RGA, and SLY1 promotes the GA-mediated destabilization of both GAI-GFP and GFP-RGA. In addition to SLEEPY1 (SLY1; At4g24210), the Arabidopsis genome contains SLY2 (At5g48170), a gene that encodes a SLY1-like protein (CITATION). Because lack of SLY1 confers dwarfism and reduced GA response (CITATION), we next investigated the phenotypes conferred by transgenic overexpression of SLY1 or SLY2. Expression of 35S:SLY1 or 35S:SLY2 transgenes caused substantial or partial suppression, respectively, of sly1-10 phenotype (Figures 4A and 4B), suggesting that overexpression of SLY2 can at least partially compensate for lack of SLY1. [[FIGURE]] 35S:SLY1 had no obvious effect on the growth and development of wild-type plants (data not shown). However, 35S:SLY1 conferred increased resistance to PAC, a GA biosynthesis inhibitor (CITATION; CITATION). 35S:SLY1 seeds germinated on PAC-containing medium (as did positive control gai sly1gar2-1 seeds; CITATION), whereas the germination of wild-type control seeds was substantially inhibited (Figure 4C). Furthermore, 35S:SLY1 suppressed the dwarf phenotype conferred by the GA-deficiency mutation ga1-3 (CITATION; CITATION; Figure 4D) and by gai (Figure 4E) and also conferred PAC-resistant germination on gai seeds (Figure 4C). All of the phenotypes shown here to be suppressed by 35S:SLY1 are attributable to stabilized DELLA proteins. Our results therefore indicate that the increased availability of SLY1 conferred by 35S:SLY1 overcomes the growth retardation or germination inhibition that these stabilized DELLA proteins would otherwise impose. Because sly1gar2-1 encodes a mutant form of SLY1, it was important to determine if SLY1 is the F-box subunit of an SCFSLY1 complex. F-box subunits are anchored into SCF complexes via binding of the N-terminal F-box domain to SKP1 (CITATION). If Arabidopsis SLY1 or SLY2 is indeed part of a functional SCFSLY1/SCFSLY2 complex, SLY1 or SLY2 should interact with one or more members of the Arabidopsis family of SKP1 homologs (ASK1 to ASK21; Figure 5A; CITATION). We found that SLY1 and SLY2 both interacted strongly with ASK1, ASK2, ASK3, ASK4, and ASK11, more weakly with ASK13, and did not detectably interact with any of the remaining ASK family members in yeast two-hybrid assays (Figures 5A and 5B; X. Fu and N.P. Harberd, data not shown). This result is consistent with the previous demonstration of positive yeast two-hybrid interactions between a representative Arabidopsis C2 family (of which SLY1 and SLY2 are members) F-box protein and ASK1, ASK2, ASK4, ASK11, or ASK13 (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] In further experiments, we tested if the interaction between ASK1 or ASK2 and SLY1 is dependent on the N-terminal F-box domain of SLY1 (Figures 5C and 5D). Low levels of reporter activation were conferred by DNA binding domain-ASK1/2 fusion proteins (encoded by pLexA-ASK1 or pLexA-ASK2 constructs) in the presence of the activation domain (AD) vector construct (Figure 5D). High levels of reporter activation (indicative of positive interaction) were obtained when the AD was fused with SLY1 derivatives containing the N-terminal F-box domain (SLY1; SLY1ΔC). A SLY1-derivative lacking this domain (SLY1ΔF) failed to interact with ASK1 or ASK2 (Figure 5D). These results suggest that the SLY1–ASK1/ASK2 interaction is dependent upon the F-box domain of SLY1. We next determined if SLY1 is part of an in planta SCF complex. Polyclonal anti-ASK1 and anti-SLY1 antibodies detected ASK1 and SLY1 in crude extracts from wild-type plants and from plants expressing a Myc-tagged form of ASK2 (Myc-ASK2; CITATION) (Figure 5E). SLY1 (but not ASK1) was detected in anti-Myc–immunoprecipitated proteins from the line expressing Myc-ASK2 but not in anti-Myc–immunoprecipitated proteins from wild-type control plants (Figure 5E). Similarly, both SLY1 and ASK1 were detected in anti-Myc–immunoprecipitated proteins from plants expressing Myc-AtCUL1 but not in anti-Myc–immunoprecipitated proteins from the wild-type control (Figure 5E). Thus, SLY1 is specifically associated with AtCUL1 and ASK1 or ASK2 in planta, indicating that it is indeed part of a functional SCFSLY1 complex. If SLY1 functions as part of an SCFSLY1 E3 ubiquitin ligase that regulates the accumulation and GA-induced disappearance of DELLA proteins, then reduction in the availability of those ASK subunits that comprise SCFSLY1 should also affect DELLA stability. We tested this prediction in plants expressing GFP-RGA or GAI-GFP and an RNA interference (RNAi) construct that specifically reduced the levels of transcripts encoding ASK1 (data not shown). This construct (35S:RNAi-ASK1) conferred a dwarf phenotype on transgenic plants (see also CITATION; CITATION), enhanced the (initial) nuclear fluorescence because of GFP-RGA or GAI-GFP, and inhibited reduction in levels of GFP-RGA or GAI-GFP in response to GA treatment (Figures 5F and 5G). Thus, reduction in the availability of ASK1 subunits affects the abundance and GA responses of nuclear GAI and RGA. We next sought to determine if DELLA proteins are the substrate of the SCFSLY1 E3 ubiquitin ligase. Typically, SCF complexes target their substrates via binding of a C-terminal portion of the F-box subunit to a specific region of the substrate protein (CITATION). We found that GAI interacts with SLY1 in yeast two-hybrid assays (Figure 6A). Low levels of reporter activation were conferred by a pLexA-GAI construct in the presence of the AD vector construct (Figure 6A). High levels of reporter activation (indicative of positive interaction) were obtained when the AD was fused with SLY1 (Figure 6A). We next identified the region of SLY1 that is the site of the GAI-SLY1 interaction and found that this interaction requires only a C-terminal portion of SLY1 (the LSL domain) (Figure 6A). In further experiments, we detected an interaction between the LSL domain of SLY1 and in vitro–translated GAI, gai, or RGA proteins. First, we immobilized Escherichia coli–expressed glutathione S-transferase (GST)-tagged SLY1 or SLY1ΔLSL (Figure 6B) on agarose beads. These beads were subsequently incubated with 35S-Met–labeled in vitro–translated GAI, gai, or RGA. None of GAI, gai, or RGA was specifically bound by immobilized GST (control) or by GST-SLY1ΔLSL (Figure 6B). However, GAI, gai, and RGA were all bound by GST-SLY1 (Figure 6B). Thus, GAI, gai, or RGA interacts with SLY1. [[FIGURE]] Thus, the DELLA–SLY1 interaction proceeds via binding of the DELLA protein to the LSL domain of SLY1. A DELLA–SLY1 interaction is also detected in planta (see below), indicating that the DELLA proteins are direct targets of the SCFSLY1 E3 ubiquitin ligase. Because sly1gar2-1 suppresses gai phenotype (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION), we determined if the in planta abundance of sly1gar2-1 was different from that of SLY1. Protein gel blot experiments revealed no detectable difference in the levels of immunodetectable SLY1 protein in sly1gar2-1 mutant versus control plants (Figure 7A), suggesting that a change in SLY1 availability does not explain the phenotype conferred by sly1gar2-1. [[FIGURE]] We next tested the DELLA interaction of GST-tagged SLY1, SLY1ΔLSL, or sly1gar2-1 by incubating them with immobilized plant-derived gai. Previously, we have shown that gai accumulates to immunologically detectable levels in ethanol-induced alcA:gai plants (CITATION). Extracts from ethanol-induced alcA:gai plants were incubated with beads that had previously been cross-linked with polyclonal anti-GAI antibodies (see Methods), thus creating beads coated with immunocaptured gai (Figure 7B). There was no detectable interaction between this immobilized gai and SLY1ΔLSL (Figure 7B). However, strong interaction between sly1gar2-1 and gai and weaker interaction between SLY1 and gai was detected 45 min after the onset of incubation (Figure 7B). By 4 h these signals were indistinguishable from one another (Figure 7B). In further tests of the interaction between gai and SLY1 or sly1gar2-1, immobilized gai was incubated with extracts from the wild type or gai sly1gar2-1 plants (Figure 7C). Control immobilization substrate (beads) had no detectable gai attached and failed to interact with SLY1 or sly1gar2-1 (Figure 7C). After 4 h of incubation, an interaction between sly1gar2-1 and gai was detected, but no interaction was detected between SLY1 and gai (Figure 7C). After 16 h, an interaction between SLY1 and gai was detected, but the signal was still weaker than that obtained with sly1gar2-1 (Figure 7C). We next tested the interaction between sly1gar2-1 and GAI. Immobilized GST, GST-SLY1, or GST-sly1gar2-1 was incubated with extracts from sly1-10 or gai-t6 sly1-10 plants (Figure 7D). GAI accumulates in sly1-10 plants but not in plants that lack GAI (gai-t6 sly1-10; Figure 7D; X. Fu, unpublished data). An interaction was detected between plant-derived GAI and GST-sly1gar2-1 but not between GAI and GST or GST-SLY1 (Figure 7D). Thus, sly1gar2-1 interacts more strongly with GAI than does SLY1. Previous work suggests that phosphorylation of rice DELLA proteins targets them for ubiquitylation via a putative rice SCFGID2 E3 ubiquitin ligase and, hence, for subsequent destruction in the proteasome (CITATION; CITATION). We found that plant-derived gai is phosphorylated. Treatment with calf intestinal phosphatase (CIP) altered the electrophoretic mobility of gai (whereas treatment with denatured CIP did not; Figure 7E). In controlled immunoprecipitation experiments, we again found that GST-sly1gar2-1 interacted more strongly than did GST-SLY1 with the native (phosphorylated) form of gai. Interestingly, GST-sly1gar2-1 also bound dephosphorylated gai (obtained via CIP treatment), although less strongly than it did native gai (Figure 7F). An interaction between GST-SLY1 and dephosphorylated gai was not detected (Figure 7F), indicating either that this interaction does not occur or that it was below the limit of detection in our experiments. Taken together, these results suggest that phosphorylation of DELLA proteins potentiates the SLY1–DELLA interaction and that the sly1gar2-1 mutant protein binds both phosphorylated and nonphosphorylated forms of the DELLA proteins more strongly than does SLY1.
!~MM~! Genotypes are written in italics (e.g., GAI), with mutant alleles represented in lower case (e.g., gai). Protein products are represented in nonitalic script (e.g., GAI and gai). Plants were grown as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). All plants shown were of homozygous genotype, determined by PCR analysis (e.g., CITATION) or via tests of genetic segregation in subsequent generations (data not shown). Except for plants used in experiments shown in Figure 5E, all plants were of the Landsberg erecta laboratory strain or were mutant or transgenic derivatives thereof. Plants containing gar2-1 (Figures 1C, 1E, and 1F) or sly1-10 (Figures 3B and 3C) were F2 progeny of a cross between plants containing the respective mutant allele and the relevant (control) transgenic line. Plants containing 35S:RNAi-ASK1 (Figures 5F and 5G) were obtained via transformation of the (control) pRGA:GFP-RGA or pGAI:GAI-GFP lines. Assays of the effect of PAC on seed germination were performed as previously described (CITATION). Plant transformations and confocal microscopic analysis of GFP fluorescence in nuclei of primary root cells of GA-treated (and control) transgenic plants were as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). GFP fluorescence levels were compared visually. Previous experiments have correlated differences in level of immunologically detectable GFP-RGA with visually detected differences in GFP-RGA fluorescence (CITATION). Transgene constructs, further construct making, RT-PCR, and RNA gel blot analyses of transcripts were also as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The DNA sequence of novel constructs (e.g., 35S:SLY1 and 35S:sly1gar2-1) was confirmed before plant transformation. For details of 35S:RNAi-ASK1, see the supplemental data online. The ASK relatedness tree was constructed using the GCG sequence analysis package (Phylip program). Sequences encoding GAI, SLY1, SLY2, and ASK1-ASK21 (or deletion derivatives thereof, see also supplementary data online) were cloned into the BamHI/NotI sites of the pLexA vector or the EcoRI/XhoI sites of pB42AD vector (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA). Vectors carrying candidate insertions (or empty vector) were transformed into the yeast EGY48 strain, and transformants plated on SD/-His/-Trp/-Ura medium. Interactions were further confirmed via replating of transformants on SD/-His/-Trp/-Leu/-Ura and SD/Raf/-Gal/-His/-Trp/-Leu/-Ura 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indoyl-β-d-galactopyranoside media. In tests of β-galactosidase activities, overnight cultures of EGY48 carrying prey and bait (or control plasmids) were diluted 1:10 into fresh SD (-His-Trp-Ura) and placed in a shaking incubator at 250 rpm and 30°C for 3 h. Samples were assayed as described for the MATCHMAKER LexA two-hybrid system with o-nitrophenyl-β-d-galactopyranoside as a substrate (Clontech). Each assay was performed a minimum of three times. SLY1, SLY1ΔLSL, and sly1gar2-1 coding sequences were cloned in frame into the BamHI/NotI sites of the pGEX-5X-1 GST fusion vector (Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK), verified by DNA sequencing, and introduced into Escherichia coli strain BL21 (DE3) pLysS. Overnight cultures were diluted 100-fold and grown for 2 h at 37°C. Subsequently, isopropylthio-β-galactoside was added and growth continued for 2 h at 21°C. Soluble GST-fusion proteins were extracted and purified using a GST purification kit (BD Biosciences, Franklin Lakes, NJ). For in vitro translation, GAI, gai, and RGA coding sequences were cloned into the BamHI/NotI sites of the luciferase T7 vector (Promega, Madison, WI). Proteins were then in vitro translated using a TNT7-coupled reticulocyte lysate system (Promega) with 35S-Met labeling. Coimmunoprecipitations were performed using the Seize primary immunoprecipitation kit (Pierce, Rockford, IL) as described previously (CITATION). GST pull-down assays were performed with 6 μg of purified GST or GST-fusion proteins fixed to GST-Mag agarose beads (Novagen, Madison, WI) and incubated with in vitro–translated proteins, total proteins extracted from 7-d-old wild-type or mutant Arabidopsis seedlings, or from ethanol-treated alcA:gai plants (CITATION). Extracts from ethanol-treated alcA:gai plants were also incubated with protein A beads (Pierce) to which polyclonal anti-GAI antibodies previously had been cross-linked, resulting in beads coated with immunocaptured gai protein. Control beads were incubated with extract from untreated alcA:gai plants. Treatments with CIP in essence were performed as described previously (CITATION). Anti-SLY1 polyclonal antibodies were raised against a KRSTTDSDLAGDAHN peptide fragment, and anti-GAI polyclonal antibodies were raised against soluble E. coli–expressed GAI (both from Eurogenetics, Herstal, Belgium; in both cases further antibody purification was performed using the AminoLink Plus immobilization trial kit; Pierce). The anti-Myc monoclonal antibodies were from Santa Cruz Biotechnology (Santa Cruz, CA), anti-GST polyclonal antibodies were from Amersham, anti-tubulin antibodies (YOL1/34) were from ABCOM (Cambridge, UK) and anti-GFP monoclonal antibodies were from Convance (Berkeley, CA).
