!~ABS~! In bacteria, yeast, and mammals, iron-sulfur (Fe-S) cluster-containing proteins are involved in numerous processes including electron transfer, metabolic reactions, sensing, signaling, and regulation of gene expression. In humans, iron-storage diseases such as X-linked sideroblastic anemia and ataxia are caused by defects in Fe-S cluster availability. The biogenesis of Fe-S clusters involves several pathways, and in bacteria, the SufABCDSE operon has been shown to play a vital role in Fe-S biogenesis and repair during oxidative stress. Although Fe-S proteins play vital roles in plants, Fe-S cluster biogenesis and maintenance and physiological consequences of dysfunctional Fe-S cluster assembly remains obscure. Here we report that Arabidopsis plants deficient for the SufC homolog AtNAP7 show lethality at the globular stage of embryogenesis. AtNAP7 is expressed in developing embryos and in apical, root, and floral meristems and encodes an ATP-binding cassette/ATPase that can partially rescue growth defects in an Escherichia coli SufC mutant during oxidative stress. AtNAP7 is plastid-localized, and mutant embryos contain abnormal developing plastids with disorganized thylakoid structures. We found that AtNAP7 can interact with AtNAP6, a plastidic Arabidopsis SufD homolog, and because Arabidopsis plastids also harbor SufA, SufB, SufS, and SufE homologs, plastids probably contain a complete SUF system. Our results imply that AtNAP7 represents a conserved SufC protein involved in the biogenesis and/or repair of oxidatively damaged Fe-S clusters and suggest an important role for plastidic Fe-S cluster maintenance and repair during Arabidopsis embryogenesis.
!~RES~!  The NAP AtNAP7 Shows Similarity to Fe-S ABC Proteins. We cloned a full-length (1,017 nt) cDNA encoding the NAP AtNAP7 (CITATION, CITATION) from Arabidopsis. AtNAP7 is a single-copy nuclear gene (At3g10670) located on chromosome 3 encoding a 338-aa protein with a Walker A and Walker B domain, an ABC signature motif, and a conserved His residue (FIG-REF) found in many ABC proteins (CITATION, CITATION). AtNAP7 contains no predicted transmembrane domain, suggesting that AtNAP7 represents a peripheral ATP-binding subunit found in prokaryotic ABC transporter complexes (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] AtNAP7 shows 53% similarity to SufC from Erwinia chrysanthemi (CITATION) and in bacteria SufC is an ABC/ATPase, part of the sufABCDSE operon, acting together with SufB and SufD, playing a vital role in Fe-S cluster biogenesis and repair (CITATION, CITATION). AtNAP7 also shows 55% similarity to the ycf16-encoded sulfate ABC protein found on the plastid genome of Guillardia theta (CITATION) and an ABC protein from the cyanobacterium Nostoc punctiforme (FIG-REF). AtNAP7 contains an N-terminal extension predicted to be a chloroplast-targeting transit peptide, and phylogenetic analysis shows that AtNAP7 has the closest relationship to the ABC protein from N. punctiforme (data not shown), suggesting that AtNAP7 is an evolutionary descendant of a cyanobacterial ABC protein.  AtNAP7 Is a Plastid-Localized ABC/ATPase. To test whether AtNAP7 is a bona fide ABC protein with ATPase activity, we expressed a (His)6-AtNAP7 fusion protein in E. coli. AtNAP7 was insoluble, and the protein was purified under denaturing conditions by using Ni2+ affinity chromatography followed by refolding by dialysis. The purity of the refolded AtNAP7 protein was verified by SDS/PAGE (Fig. 7A). The AtNAP7 protein then was incubated with radiolabeled [γ-32P]ATP at pH 7.2 in the presence of 5 mM MgCl2 and analyzed by TLC for the release of inorganic phosphate (Pi). Analysis showed a clear linear increase in AtNAP7-induced ATP hydrolysis with time (FIG-REF). To ensure that the measured ATPase activity was not caused by a contaminating E. coli ATPase, we also expressed and purified a nonfunctional (His)6-ATPase from E. coli (Fig. 7A) alongside AtNAP7 and found that this purified protein had no detectable ATPase activity (Fig. 7B). We also tested the effect of different ions on AtNAP7 ATPase activity. In the absence of ions we could not detect any measurable ATP hydrolysis, whereas magnesium ions (MgCl2 and MgSO4) had a dramatic effect on activity (FIG-REF). Although not as pronounced, MnSO4 also had an effect on AtNAP7 activity (FIG-REF). The presence of an AtNAP7 N-terminal extension suggested that AtNAP7 may localize to plastids. To test this we generated a construct containing the AtNAP7 cDNA fused to YFP and transiently expressed this construct in tobacco leaves. From these experiments it was evident that AtNAP7 is localized to chloroplasts (FIG-REF). Combined, these data demonstrate that AtNAP7 represents a plastid-localized ABC/ATPase.  AtNAP7 Is Essential for Seed Viability and Normal Embryo Development. To gain insight into the function of AtNAP7, we analyzed a SALK T-DNA insertion line N576086 (CITATION) carrying a T-DNA in intron four of AtNAP7 (FIG-REF). To confirm the presence of the T-DNA in atnap7 plants we used AtNAP7-specific and T-DNA-specific primers (FIG-REF) to PCR-amplify the flanking region (FIG-REF). Segregation analysis on nonselective media of five T3 progeny derived from a heterozygous atnap7 plant revealed a germination ratio of 3:1, indicating lethality of the homozygous insertion mutant (Table 1, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). To verify this we dissected individual siliques from heterozygous atnap7 mutants and WT plants at different developmental stages (FIG-REF). In young WT siliques, maturing seeds were of uniform size and shape containing developing green embryos, whereas in segregating atnap7 plants a number of immature and pale seeds were observed (FIG-REF). The immature and pale homozygous atnap7 seeds failed to develop in mature siliques, resulting in a dark and wrinkled appearance (FIG-REF). To test for seed viability, we further stained seeds from individual siliques with tetrazolium, which demonstrated that the aborted seeds were not viable (FIG-REF). These results were consistent with a recessive lethal segregation of embryos homozygous for the AtNAP7 T-DNA insertion. [[FIGURE]] Although analysis of a second AtNAP7 insertion mutant showed a homozygous embryo-lethal phenotype (data not shown), we tested whether an AtNAP7 cDNA could rescue the atnap7 mutant phenotype. We transformed heterozygous atnap7 plants with a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter-driven WT AtNAP7 cDNA, and four of five independent transgenic lines tested showed a germination rate ratio of 15:1 (germinating seeds to aborted seeds), demonstrating that the homozygous embryo-lethal phenotype is caused by AtNAP7 disruption. To examine the effect of AtNAP7 deficiency on Arabidopsis embryo development, we compared WT and homozygous atnap7 mutant embryos at the same developmental stages. In contrast to normal WT embryo development (Fig. 8 A-E, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site) (CITATION), atnap7 embryos showed retarded and abnormal development and did not progress beyond the late globular stage (Fig. 8 F-J). When WT embryos had reached the four-cell stage, atnap7 embryos showed either signs of initial zygote division or had only reached the two-cell stage (FIG-REF), demonstrating a role for AtNAP7 during early embryogenesis. At later stages of development when WT embryos had reached the globular stage, atnap7 embryos were either developmentally retarded or showed abnormal phenotypes (FIG-REF). Some atnap7 mutant embryos had altered cell-division characteristics, showing vertical divisions in the upper part of the suspensor and in the embryo proper, whereas others were severely distorted in shape (FIG-REF). To further examine the ultrastructural changes that take place in mutant embryos at the stage of developmental arrest, we examined WT and mutant embryos at the globular stage by using electron microscopy. Although the overall cellular structures appeared similar, there were several differences between the WT and mutant. In mutant embryos (Fig. 3B and Fig. 9B, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site), cells contain more lipid bodies compared with WT cells (FIG-REF and 9A). Mutant cells were also more vacuolated, and the vacuoles contained electron-dense material that seemed to form precipitates (Fig. 9B). The main difference, however, between WT and mutant cells relates to the plastid structure. In WT cells, the plastids are generally ellipsoidal in shape with a smooth envelope surface (FIG-REF). In contrast, AtNAP7-deficient plastids show slight shape abnormalities and, more strikingly, an uneven envelope surface (FIG-REF). AtNAP7-deficient plastids were also more electron-dense than WT. Although plastids at this stage of embryogenesis remain relatively undifferentiated, plastids in WT embryos do contain developing thylakoid structures (FIG-REF). Analysis of large numbers of mutant embryos failed to detect such ordered structures, although disorganized single-thylakoid or bithylakoid structures could be observed (FIG-REF).  AtNAP7 Is Expressed in Embryos, Meristems, and Flowers. To determine spatial and temporal AtNAP7 expression patterns, we analyzed three independent transgenic Arabidopsis lines expressing an AtNAP7 promoter-GUS fusion. During the early globular stage, GUS staining was observed in the developing endosperm, the embryo proper, and the suspensor (FIG-REF). At the heart stage, staining became more restricted to the embryo proper (FIG-REF), and at the torpedo stage, GUS activity was evident in the entire developing embryo (FIG-REF). Interestingly, at the bent-cotyledon stage, GUS staining was limited to the apical meristem, and faint staining could be observed in the root meristem also (FIG-REF). In developing seedlings, the highest GUS activity was observed in the root meristem and in the apical meristem, although staining was also detected in vascular tissue in young seedlings (FIG-REF). Adult plants also showed AtNAP7 expression in the vascular tissue of rosette leaves (data not shown) and in flowers (FIG-REF). In flowers, the most intense staining was observed in the floral meristem, in the filaments of the stamen, and in the style (FIG-REF). The ubiquitous expression of AtNAP7 is in agreement with Northern blot data showing AtNAP7 expression in all aerial plant regions but with lower expression in roots (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  AtNAP7 Is an Evolutionarily Conserved SufC Protein Able to Partially Complement a SufC-Deficient E. coli Mutant During Oxidative Stress. In bacteria, SufC is vital for the protection of enzymes with oxygen-labile Fe-S clusters, and E. coli lacking SufC is unable to grow in minimal A medium under oxidative stress conditions (CITATION). With respect to this fact, we tested whether AtNAP7 could functionally complement a SufC-deficient E. coli strain. We generated an E. coli knockout mutant lacking SufC (MG1655ΔSufC) and compared its growth characteristics with WT (MG1655) under oxidative stress conditions, with gluconate as a sole carbon source. In the absence of oxidative stress, both strains grew equally well (FIG-REF). After exposure to the oxidative agent PMS, WT cells were able to recover and resume exponential growth after a 4-h lag period, whereas mutant MG1655ΔSufC cells were unable to resume growth (FIG-REF) (CITATION). We then analyzed the effect of AtNAP7 expression in MG1655ΔSufC cells after PMS addition. MG1655ΔSufC transformants expressing AtNAP7 (MG1655ΔSufC/AtNAP7) showed exponential growth before PMS addition and the characteristic initial 4-h lag phase after PMS addition (FIG-REF). However, after 4 h, MG1655ΔSufC/AtNAP7 cells resumed growth (FIG-REF), demonstrating that AtNAP7 can partially complement SufC deficiency in E. coli. These results demonstrate that AtNAP7 encodes an evolutionarily conserved plastidic SufC protein in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]]  AtNAP7 Interacts with the Plastid-Localized SufD Homolog AtNAP6. Bacterial SufC interacts with SufD in the cytosol (CITATION, CITATION), and through blast searches we identified a SufD homolog in Arabidopsis named AtNAP6 (CITATION) (Table 2, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). AtNAP6 contains an N-terminal extension predicted to encode a chloroplast-targeting transit peptide, and we analyzed the subcellular localization of an AtNAP6/YFP fusion protein in tobacco leaf cells. Epifluorescence analysis revealed that, as observed for AtNAP7, AtNAP6 is localized exclusively to chloroplasts (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] To further examine whether AtNAP7 could interact with AtNAP6, we made use of the yeast two-hybrid system. Full-length AtNAP7 and AtNAP6 proteins were fused to the GAL4 activation domain (AD-AtNAP7 and AD-AtNAP6) and to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain (BD-AtNAP7 and BD-AtNAP6) and expressed in yeast HF7c cells. As a protein-protein interaction marker, we made use of the ability of HF7c to only grow in the absence of His after positive protein-protein interactions. We found that His auxotrophy was restored in yeast cells coexpressing AD-AtNAP7/BD-AtNAP6 and BD-AtNAP7/AD-AtNAP6, demonstrating that AtNAP7 and AtNAP6 can interact (FIG-REF). In contrast, His auxotrophy was not restored in yeast cells coexpressing the empty AD vector together with BD-AtNAP7 or BD-AtNAP6 or the empty BD vector together with AD-AtNAP7 or AD-AtNAP6. We also tested whether AtNAP7 could form homodimers but found that yeast cells coexpressing AD-AtNAP7/BD-AtNAP7 did not restore His auxotrophy (FIG-REF). This result further implied that Arabidopsis plastids may harbor a complete SUF system. Although Arabidopsis contains the plastid-localized SufB homolog AtABC1/AtNAP1 (CITATION) and the SufS homolog AtCpNifS/AtNSF2 (CITATION), we wanted to examine whether Arabidopsis contains other Suf homologs. To this end we identified a SufA and SufE homolog. We cloned full-length cDNAs encoding SufA and SufE proteins, and sequence-alignment and -prediction analyses revealed that both SufA and SufS contain N-terminal extensions predicted to encode plastid-targeting transit peptides (Table 2). Based on the data we believe that Arabidopsis plastids harbor a complete SUF system.
!~MM~!  Isolation of an AtNAP7 Transferred DNA Insertion Mutant and Complementation. Surface-sterilized Arabidopsis thaliana seeds (Columbia) were sown on Murashige and Skoog medium or soil and grown under 16-h light/8-h dark cycles at 22°C. The Arabidopsis atnap7 knockout mutant was isolated from the SALK Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory transferred DNA (T-DNA) insertion lines (http://signal.salk.edu). The genotype of atnap7 was analyzed by PCR using primers (see FIG-REF) specific for the T-DNA (primer 2: 5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCACCT-3′) and specific for the AtNAP7 ORF (primer 1: 5′-GCGGTAATGGTTCTGCTTCCC-3′; primer 3: 5′-TGCAAACCAAAACTACGGGTCA-3′). For complementation analysis the AtNAP7 cDNA was PCR-amplified with primers NAP7/1 (5′-AATCTCGAGATGGCCGGCGTTAACCTAC-3′; XhoI is underlined) and NAP7/2 (5′-ATACTAGTTCAGAGCAAGCCTTTGACG-3′; SpeI is underlined), cloned into the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter binary vector pBA002 (CITATION), and transformed into heterozygous atnap7 plants by using the Agrobacterium-mediated floral-dip method (CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  Heterologous Expression of AtNAP7 and ATPase Assay. A 1,017-bp full-length AtNAP7 cDNA was PCR-amplified by using primers NAP7/3 (5′-AATCTCGAGATGGCCGGCGTTAACCTAC-3′; XhoI is underlined) and NAP7/4 5′-AAGGTACCCTAACCCCATATCGCTTTGT-3′; KpnI is underlined) and ligated into pRSETA (Invitrogen) to generate pRSETA-AtNAP7. Protein expression and purification was performed following standard protocols. A 100-ml midlog-phase bacterial culture was induced with 1.5 mM isopropyl β-D-thiogalactoside for 3 h, and the insoluble fraction was purified by using TALON metal affinity resin (BD Biosciences) under denaturing conditions following the user manual. The purity of the protein was verified by SDS/PAGE and refolded by dialysis. All ATP hydrolysis assays were performed by using 1.5 μM protein and 0.1 μCi/μl [γ-32P]ATP (1 Ci = 37 GBq) (specific activity 10 mCi/mmol). For time-course assays, the reaction buffer contained 100 mM Tris·Cl (pH 7.4), 50 mM NaCl, 0.1 mM EDTA, 1.5 mM DTT, 10% glycerol, and 5 mM MgCl2, and for ion effects 5 mM MgCl2 was replaced with 5 mM CaCl2, FeSO4, MnSO4, or MnCl2. Samples were applied to TLC plates (Macherey and Nagel), developed in 0.5 M LiCl and 0.5 M formic acid buffer, and visualized by autoradiography.  AtNAP7 and AtNAP6 Localization Analysis. Full-length AtNAP7 and AtNAP6 (1,425 bp) cDNAs were PCR-amplified by using primer pairs NAP7/1 and NAP7/5 (5′-AAGGTACCACCGGATATCGCTTTGTAGCC-3′; KpnI is underlined) and NAP6/D1 (5′-AATCTCGAGATGGCGGCTGCCACAGTTCTC-3′; XhoI is underlined) and NAP6/D2 (5′ AAGGTACCGAGC AAGCCTTTGACGTGAT 3′; KpnI is underlined), respectively, and cloned into pWEN18 as N-terminal fusions to yellow fluorescence protein (YFP). pWEN18/AtNAP7 and pWEN18/AtNAP6 were transfected into tobacco leaves by particle bombardment (CITATION), and YFP fluorescence analysis was performed on a Nikon TE-2000U inverted microscope, and image analysis was performed by using openlab software (Improvision, Coventry, U.K.).  Histochemical Staining and Embryo Analysis. For in planta AtNAP7 expression analysis, a 468-bp upstream AtNAP7 promoter region was PCR-amplified by using primers NAP7/6 (5′-GCTCTAGATATGTTTATATATAGATCACACTATATCAGGACAA: 3′; XbaI is underlined) and NAP7/7 (5′-GGAGACAGAAATTGCGGCGGAAG-3′) and cloned into pBI101 (CLONTECH). Histochemical β-glucuronidase (GUS) activity staining was performed by using 1 mg/ml 5 bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl β-D-glucuronide in 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0, 0.1% Triton X-100/5 mM potassium ferricyanide/5 mM potassium ferrocyanide) at 37°C for 1-12 h and cleared in 70% ethanol. To visualize embryos, seeds were cleared in lactophenol [H2O/glycerol/lactate/phenol, 1:1:1:2 (vol/vol)] overnight. For embryo analysis, seeds were removed from siliques and cleared for 24 h in a chloral hydrate solution [chloral hydrate/H2O/glycerol, 8:2:1 (wt/vol/vol)]. Viability tests were performed by soaking seeds in a 1% 2,3,5-triphenyl tetrazolium chloride solution (Sigma) for 2 days in the dark at 30°C. All samples were examined by using differential interference contrast microscopy on a Nikon TE-2000U inverted microscope. Electron microscopy of embryos was performed by using standard protocols, and ultrathin sections were examined by using a JEOL 1220 transmission electron microscope.  Generation of an E. coli SufC Mutant and Complementation by atNAP7. The SufC gene in E. coli strain MG1655 was disrupted by the insertion of a chloramphenicol resistance cassette (see ref. CITATION and Supporting Materials and Methods, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site, for further details). The resulting SufC mutant strain (MG1655ΔsufC) was transformed with the pRSETA-AtNAP7 vector to generate the strain MG1655ΔsufC/AtNAP7.WT E. coli MG1655, MG1655ΔsufC, and MG1655ΔsufC/AtNAP7 strains were grown overnight in LB medium at 37°C. Cultures were used to inoculate minimal A medium containing 0.2% gluconate and 1 μg/ml thiamine. During the exponential growth phase, phenazine methosulfate (PMS) was added at a final concentration of 15 μM, and growth was followed by measuring OD600 values of the cultures.  Yeast Two-Hybrid Analysis. Full-length AtNAP7 and AtNAP6 cDNAs were PCR-amplified by using primer pairs NAP7/C1 (5′-GGAATTCATGGCCGGCGTTAACCTAC-3′; EcoRI is underlined) and NAP7/C2 (5′-AATCCCGGGCTAACCGGATATCGCTTTGT-3′; SmaI is underlined) and NAP6/D3 (5′-ATGAATTCATGGCGGCTGCCACAGTTCTC-3′; EcoRI is underlined) and NAP6/D4 (5′-ATGGATCCGAGCAAGCCTTTGACGTGAT-3′; BamHI is underlined), respectively, and cloned into pGADT7 (GAL4 activation domain) and pGBKT7 (GAL4 DNA-binding domain). The resulting plasmids, together with empty vector controls (AD and BD), were transformed into HF7c yeast cells in different combinations (see Fig. 7B, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site) and tested for restoration of His auxotrophy (+++) as recommended by the manufacturer (Matchmaker two-hybrid system, version 3, Clontech).
