!~ABS~! The DCL (defective chloroplasts and leaves) gene of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) is required for chloroplast development, palisade cell morphogenesis, and embryogenesis. Previous work suggested that DCL protein is involved in 4.5S rRNA processing. The Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. genome contains five sequences encoding for DCL-related proteins. In this paper, we investigate the function of AtDCL protein, which shows the highest amino acid sequence similarity with tomato DCL. AtDCL mRNA was expressed in all tissues examined and a fusion between AtDCL and green fluorescent protein (GFP) was sufficient to target GFP to plastids in vivo, consistent with the localization of AtDCL to chloroplasts. In an effort to clarify the function of AtDCL, transgenic plants with altered expression of this gene were constructed. Deregulation of AtDCL gene expression caused multiple phenotypes such as chlorosis, sterile flowers and abnormal cotyledon development, suggesting that this gene is required in different organs. The processing of the 4.5S rRNA was significantly altered in these transgenic plants, indicating that AtDCL is involved in plastid rRNA maturation. These results suggest that AtDCL is the Arabidopsis ortholog of tomato DCL, and indicate that plastid function is required for normal plant development.
!~RES~! Sequence comparison of tomato DCL with proteins in current databases revealed significant similarity to five sequences from the Arabidopsis genome-sequencing project (Fig. 1). These sequences showed no significant homology to any protein sequence in the database other than DCL, except for a DCL-related gene, which is much larger than tomato DCL (AGI 2504390) and encodes a protein related to RNA polymerase subunit. One of these DCL-related sequences exhibited the highest amino acid sequence similarity with tomato DCL and was designated AtDCL. It shows 68% similarity and 60% identity over the entire open reading frame (Fig. 1). The highest sequence identity was seen at the C-terminus (92% similarity and 83% identity), which contains the DCL-domain found in all DCL-related proteins (Bellaoui et al. CITATION). Analysis of these Arabidopsis DCL-related proteins using common targeting prediction programs (http://www.inra.fr/Internet/Produits/Predotar/) suggested that only AtDCL is localized in the chloroplast. We suggest, therefore, that AtDCL is the Arabidopsis ortholog of DCL. [[FIGURE]]  To begin the study of the function of AtDCL, expression analysis of the AtDCL gene was undertaken. A screen of the EST database identified two expressed sequence tags (accession numbers: AI994762 and N38199). Neither of these cDNA sequences is complete (391 and 417 bp), and so 5′ and 3′ RACE experiments were performed using total RNA from leaves. The sequence of the full-length cDNA of AtDCL was then determined (1,151 bp). Using AtDCL cDNA as probe, the expression pattern of AtDCL was examined by northern blot experiments. The AtDCL gene was expressed in all organs examined, including leaves, stems, flowers, and siliques (Fig. 2). This is consistent with the expression pattern of tomato DCL, which is also expressed in all types of tissues and stages of development examined (Keddie et al. CITATION). A 1.2-kb transcript was detected in the four organs examined, consistent with the size determined by sequencing the full-length cDNA of AtDCL. However, a second transcript of 1.3 kb was detected in flowers, and siliques. Since AtDCL genes are quite different from each other at the level of DNA sequence, we assume that this 1.3-kb transcript in flowers and siliques corresponds to differentially spliced transcript or resulted from an alternative transcript termination. [[FIGURE]]  To confirm that AtDCL is targeted to plastids in vivo, an in-frame fusion between the coding regions of AtDCL and the gene for GFP was made and used for stable transformation of Arabidopsis. The expression of AtDCL::GFP fusion in protoplasts isolated from a stably transformed Arabidopsis plant was examined by confocal laser-scanning microscopy. The results of these experiments clearly show that the fusion protein co-localized with the chloroplast chlorophyll (Fig. 3). Without the putative transit peptide, GFP signals were dispersed in the cytoplasm and nucleus (data not shown). Thus, AtDCL is able to target proteins to plastids in vivo, confirming that AtDCL is a plastid-localized protein. [[FIGURE]]  To explore the function of the AtDCL gene, phenotypic and molecular analyses of transgenic Arabidopsis lines overexpressing the AtDCL::GFP fusion were performed. For this, the AtDCL::GFP fusion was cloned downstream of the CaMV 35S promoter. This promoter was chosen because it is known to be constitutively expressed in Arabidopsis, an expression pattern that matches that of the AtDCL gene. This construct was transformed into Arabidopsis wild-type plants (ecotype Columbia). In total, 15 transformants were obtained after selection on Murashige and Skoog medium containing hygromycin. When transferred to soil, 12 T1 transformants showed similar developmental defects and were further analyzed. The transformants were pale green (Fig. 4a), had chlorotic and poorly fertile flowers and their growth was extremely retarded compared to the wild type (Fig. 4b). The results presented here are all derived from studies of one of these transgenic lines, named AtDCL::GFP-2. Segregation analysis of the T2 generation indicated that a single T-DNA was inserted into the AtDCL::GFP-2 line. Northern blot analysis revealed that this line accumulated a very high level of AtDCL::GFP transcript and GFP fluorescence indicated that the AtDCL::GFP fusion protein accumulated to high levels and was correctly localized in the plastids (Fig. 3 and data not shown). Therefore, these results suggest that the developmental defects observed in transgenic lines resulted from an overexpression of AtDCL::GFP fusion protein. [[FIGURE]]  When germinated in vitro, the T2 progeny of the AtDCL::GFP-2 line contained seedlings with abnormal cotyledon development (seedlings with one, three, fused or unequal cotyledons) (Fig. 4c). This phenotype is consistent with the role of tomato DCL during embryogenesis (Bellaoui et al. CITATION). To test whether AtDCL protein is involved in 4.5S rRNA processing, we examined the expression of the small rRNA in the transgenic plants. As expected, the expression pattern of 4.5S rRNA was severely affected in the AtDCL::GFP-2 mutant (Fig. 5). In contrast, 5S rRNA accumulated normally (Fig. 5). Together, these data suggest that overexpression of AtDCL::GFP affects 4.5S rRNA formation, which in turn affects normal plastid function and plant development. Therefore, we suggest that overexpression of AtDCL::GFP behaves as a dominant negative mutation and indicates that AtDCL might play the same function as tomato DCL. [[FIGURE]]  To further analyze AtDCL function, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants that constitutively expressed antisense AtDCL transcript. When selected on Murashige and Skoog medium containing hygromycin, true transformants with healthy roots segregated into normal green and albino seedlings. The latter grew slowly and died before true leaves were formed which suggests that expression of antisense AtDCL is lethal. The survivor T1 transformants were transferred to soil. From 26 T1 independent transgenic lines, 12 became chlorotic after 2 weeks and were further analyzed. They gave rise to few seeds and their T2 progeny segregated into normal and chlorotic seedlings characterized by variation in cotyledon number. Five-week-old siblings of the T2 progeny of one of the 12 transformants are shown in Fig. 6a (normal plant) and 6b (mutant plant). Mutant plants grew extremely slowly, had chlorotic flower buds and died after 7–8 weeks (Fig. 6c). In contrast, the normal progeny showed developmental defects at a more advanced stage: yellow inflorescence (Fig. 6d), initiation of many axillary meristems at the same place (Fig. 6e), shoot apical meristem arrested (Fig. 6f), stem fasciation (Fig. 6g) and fasciated siliques (data not shown). We assume that these plants still express the AtDCL gene albeit at reduced levels, while it is completely off in the mutant progeny exhibiting chlorosis at an early stage. Together, these data show that overexpression of antisense AtDCL causes chlorosis throughout the vegetative cycle of the plant and affects normal plant development. [[FIGURE]]  RNA gel blot analysis was used to investigate the effect of overexpression of antisense AtDCL on the steady-state level of 4.5S rRNA. Leaf tissue was collected for total RNA extraction from wild-type and antisense AtDCL mutant plants. Figure 7a shows that 4.5S rRNA accumulation was dramatically reduced in antisense AtDCL mutant plants in comparison with the wild type, which is consistent with previous data from overexpression of the AtDCL::GFP fusion. [[FIGURE]]  We then tested the effect of the overexpression of antisense AtDCL on the accumulation of plastid proteins. Total leaf protein was extracted from mutant plants of two independent lines (antisense AtDCL-11 and AtDCL-21), and protein gel blot analysis was performed using antibodies raised against plastid proteins. While POR protein accumulated to near normal level, a strong reduction was observed in the abundance of CF1α, PSI-D and LHCII proteins (Fig. 7b). This is consistent with the effect of dcl-m mutation on the accumulation of plastid proteins in tomato (Bellaoui et al. CITATION). Together, these results demonstrate that overexpression of antisense AtDCL affects 4.5S rRNA processing and strongly suggest that AtDCL protein is involved in plastid rRNA maturation.
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. were sown in optima soil (http://www.optima.magnet.ch) and kept for 2 days at 4°C before being moved into the growth chamber. Plants were grown at 22°C under long-day growth conditions (16 h light/8 h dark). Transgenic Arabidopsis seeds were surface-sterilized, and plated on Murashige and Skoog medium containing hygromycin (35 μg ml−1). Hygromycin-resistant seedlings were transferred to soil and grown in long-day conditions in the growth chamber. Total RNA was extracted from Arabidopsis leaves. First-strand cDNA from total RNA was prepared using the Advantage RT-for-PCR Kit (Clontech). 3′ and 5′ RACE experiments were performed using the Marathon cDNA Amplification kit (Clontech) and the following AtDCL-specific primers: For 5′ RACE: 5′-CTC TTA AAA TCC GGG TGA TGC CCT ACC-3′ 5′-GCG AAA ATG TCT GAG GAT GAA ACT GTC-3′ 5′-TGG CTG AGG TCT CAC CCC AAA ACC-3′. For 3′ RACE: 5′-GAT GCT ACT TCC TTA TCA TCC TGA ATG-3′ 5′-GAC AGT TTC ATC CTC AGA CAT TTT CGC-3′ 5′-CTC GGT TCC ACT ACA AGG TTT TGG GGT-3′.  For 5′ RACE: 5′-CTC TTA AAA TCC GGG TGA TGC CCT ACC-3′ 5′-GCG AAA ATG TCT GAG GAT GAA ACT GTC-3′ 5′-TGG CTG AGG TCT CAC CCC AAA ACC-3′.  5′-CTC TTA AAA TCC GGG TGA TGC CCT ACC-3′ 5′-GCG AAA ATG TCT GAG GAT GAA ACT GTC-3′ 5′-TGG CTG AGG TCT CAC CCC AAA ACC-3′. For 3′ RACE: 5′-GAT GCT ACT TCC TTA TCA TCC TGA ATG-3′ 5′-GAC AGT TTC ATC CTC AGA CAT TTT CGC-3′ 5′-CTC GGT TCC ACT ACA AGG TTT TGG GGT-3′.  5′-GAT GCT ACT TCC TTA TCA TCC TGA ATG-3′ 5′-GAC AGT TTC ATC CTC AGA CAT TTT CGC-3′ 5′-CTC GGT TCC ACT ACA AGG TTT TGG GGT-3′. The open reading frame of the AtDCL gene was PCR-amplified using primers that contained an extra restriction site for NcoI. The amplified fragment was digested with NcoI and cloned in-frame into the NcoI site of the green fluorescent protein (GFP) expression vector pGFP-MRC (Rodriguez-Concepcion et al. CITATION) to express the fusion protein AtDCL::GFP. The nucleotide sequence of the resulting construct (named pAtDCL::GFP) was checked by sequencing. For overexpression of AtDCL::GFP in A. thaliana, the pAtDCL::GFP construct was digested with HindIII to isolate the 35S::TL::AtDCL::GFP::Ter fragment. This fragment was then ligated into the pGPTV-HPT plant vector. The generated construct was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens cells for plant transformation. Plants were inoculated with A. tumefaciens by dipping aerial parts of the plants for 20 s in dipping solution as described by Clough and Bent (CITATION). To generate the antisense AtDCL construct, the open reading frame of the AtDCL gene was PCR-amplified by using primers that contained extra restriction sites. The amplified fragment was digested and cloned in antisense orientation into HindIII–XbaI sites of the plant vector pGPTV-HPT. The generated construct was further sequenced for confirmation and introduced into A. tumefaciens cells for plant transformation. Protoplasts were isolated as described by Spangenberg and Potrykus (CITATION).Confocal imaging was performed using a Leica confocal laser-scanning microscope. RNA was extracted as described by Bonhomme et al. (CITATION). Northern blot experiments were conducted as described by Ausubel et al. (CITATION). 10 μg of RNA was hybridized to random-primed AtDCL probe. The probe was generated by PCR amplification of the coding region of AtDCL. Total Protein extracts were prepared as described by Barkan (CITATION) and resuspended in Laemmli buffer (Laemmli CITATION). Protein electrophoresis and western blotting were conducted as described by Grelon et al. (CITATION). Immunoblots were developed using the Super Signal kit (Pierce Chemical Co.).
