!~ABS~! Auxin response in Arabidopsis thaliana requires the SCFTIR1 ubiquitin ligase. In response to the hormone, SCFTIR1 targets members of the auxin/indoleacetic acid (Aux/IAA) family of transcriptional regulators for ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis. To identify additional regulators of SCFTIR1 activity, we conducted a genetic screen to isolate enhancers of the tir1-1 auxin response defect. Here, we report our analysis of the eta2 mutant. Mutations in ETA2 confer several phenotypes consistent with reduced auxin response. ETA2 encodes the Arabidopsis ortholog of human Cullin Associated and Neddylation-Dissociated (CAND1)/TIP120A, a protein recently identified as a cullin-interacting factor. Previous biochemical studies of CAND1 have suggested that it specifically binds to unmodified CUL1 to negatively regulate SCF assembly. By contrast, we find that ETA2 positively regulates SCFTIR1 because Aux/IAA protein stability is significantly increased in eta2 mutants. Modification of CUL1 by the RUB1/NEDD8 ubiquitin-like protein has been proposed to free CUL1 from CAND1 and promote SCF assembly. We present double mutant analyses of eta2 axr1 plants indicating that liberating CUL1 from ETA2/CAND1 is not the primary role of the RUB modification pathway in the regulation of SCF activity. Our genetic and molecular analysis of SCFTIR1 function in eta2 mutants provides novel insight into the role of CAND1 in the regulation of SCF ubiquitin-ligase activity.
!~RES~! We have previously described a genetic screen designed to identify mutations that enhance the relatively weak auxin resistance phenotype of tir1-1 seedlings. This screen led to the identification of a mutant allele of the SGT1b/ETA3 gene, which encodes an SCF accessory factor of unknown function (CITATION). Several additional eta mutants were isolated from this screen, including a single allele of a gene we designated as ETA2. The eta2-1 tir1-1 M2 plant was backcrossed to tir1-1, and auxin response of the F2 progeny was assessed by examining root growth on media containing 0.25 μM 2,4-D, a concentration inhibitory to tir1-1 seedlings. Sixty-eight of 281 of the F2 seedlings exhibited auxin-resistant root growth, indicating that eta2-1 was a recessive mutation of a single locus (3:1; P < 0.01). When eta2-1 tir1-1 plants were crossed to the wild type, 17/319 F2 plants were resistant to 0.25 μM 2,4-D (15:1; P < 0.01). However, when assayed on media containing 0.085 μM 2,4-D, 181 of 444 F2 seedlings were resistant, indicating that the eta2-1 mutation confers a weak auxin resistance phenotype independent of tir1-1. This possibility was confirmed when PCR-based genotyping determined that several of the resistant segregants were TIR1+/TIR1+. Like the original eta2-1 tir1-1 mutant, the eta2-1 segregants from backcrosses to tir1-1 and Columbia exhibited a dramatic dwarf phenotype, which continued to cosegregate with the eta2-1 auxin resistance phenotype through several additional backcrosses (Figures 1A and 1B). The severity of the eta2-1 mutation was largely unaffected by the tir1-1 mutation (Figure 1B), although eta2-1 tir1-1 adult plants were slightly shorter with reduced internode lengths compared with eta2-1 single mutants. In addition to the dwarf phenotype, eta2-1 plants develop an excess number of rosette leaves (Figure 1C), form aerial rosettes, and exhibit reduced apical dominance. The eta2-1 mutation also conferred delayed senescence (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The auxin response defect conferred by the eta2-1 mutation was quantified in a dose–response assay measuring auxin inhibition of root elongation (Figure 2A). In the absence of exogenous auxin, eta2-1 roots grew slightly slower than wild-type controls (data not shown). In the presence of applied auxin, however, eta2-1 seedlings exhibited a modest auxin resistance phenotype similar to that of tir1-1 seedlings. eta2-1 tir1-1 seedlings were significantly more resistant than either single mutant line, suggesting that ETA2 and TIR1 interact synergistically. [[FIGURE]] To further explore the eta2-1 auxin response defect, lateral root development and auxin-inducible gene expression were examined. eta2-1 seedlings developed fewer lateral roots than the wild type, and the eta2-1 mutation enhanced the tir1-1 lateral root defect (Figure 2B). Auxin-inducible gene expression was examined using the BA3-β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter construct consisting of auxin-responsive regulatory elements from the PS-IAA4/5 genes fused to GUS (CITATION). Consistent with previous reports, no GUS expression was detected in untreated seedlings by histochemical staining (Figure 2C). Treatment of wild-type seedlings with 0.1 μM IAA resulted in strong GUS expression in the root elongation zone. By contrast, similar treatment of eta2-1 seedlings promoted only a slight increase in GUS staining (Figure 2C). We next examined whether the eta2-1 mutation affected SCFTIR1 ubiquitin ligase activity by monitoring the stability of the AXR2/IAA7 protein in a pulse-chase assay. Protein extracts were prepared from metabolically labeled wild-type and eta2-1 seedlings, and the AXR2 protein immunoprecipitated at the end of the labeling period or following a 15-min chase with an excess of unlabeled amino acids (Figure 2D). Quantitative analysis of the immunoprecipitates indicated AXR2 was significantly more stabile in eta2-1 seedlings than in the wild type. The average AXR2 half-life determined from three independent experiments was 25.7 ± 4.5 min in eta2-1 seedlings compared with 11.65 ± 1.6 min in wild-type seedlings. Further analysis of eta2-1 plants revealed several additional phenotypes associated with the mutation. Dark-grown eta2-1 seedlings displayed a weak constitutive photomorphogenesis (COP) phenotype. Hypocotyl length was not dramatically affected by the mutation, but eta2-1 seedlings lacked the strong apical hook characteristic of dark-grown wild-type seedlings (Figure 3A). Additionally, young eta2-1 seedlings were highly anthocyanic, which is also characteristic of cop/det/fus mutants (Figure 3B) (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We also detected a light hypersensitivity phenotype of eta2-1 mutants. This phenotype was particularly striking under low fluence red light, where eta2-1 hypocotyls were dramatically shorter than wild-type control seedlings (Figure 3C). Lastly, assays examining responses to other phytohormones revealed that eta2-1 seedlings were hypersensitive to abscisic acid in both root elongation (Figure 3D) and germination assays (data not shown). The ASK1 and AXR1 gene products are also required for auxin response (CITATION; CITATION). ASK1 encodes a SKP1 subunit of the SCFTIR1 complex, and AXR1 encodes a subunit of the RUB1 activating enzyme that is required for the modification of the CUL1 subunit. eta2-1 plants were crossed to each of these lines to generate double mutants. A strong genetic interaction between the eta2-1 and ask1-1 mutations was observed, with most double mutants dying when transplanted to soil. Surviving double mutants exhibited a severe dwarf phenotype (Figure 4A), with adult plants reaching a height of only ∼2 cm. Auxin response in the double mutant was reduced in comparison to the eta2-1 and ask1-1 single mutants (Figure 4B). This heightened reduction in auxin response cannot account for the severe double mutant morphological phenotype, however, because the auxin response defect of eta2-1 ask1-1 seedlings is comparable to that of eta2-1 tir1-1 mutants (Figure 2A). [[FIGURE]] By contrast, only a modest genetic interaction was detected between eta2-1 and axr1-12 (Figure 4C). Double mutants were slightly smaller than eta2-1 plants, and the reduction in fertility conferred by the axr1-12 mutation was further enhanced by eta2-1. Analysis of auxin response in the double mutant revealed that axr1-12 was largely epistatic to the eta2-1 mutation because there was no significant difference in root growth between double mutant and axr1-12 seedlings on hormone-supplemented media (Figure 4D). A map-based cloning strategy was used to isolate the ETA2 gene. The eta2-1 mutation was initially mapped between markers rga and ciw2 on the north end of chromosome 2. Additional mapping narrowed the location of ETA2 to an ∼78-kb interval spanning BACs T8K22 and T20F6. These two BACs were partially digested with HinDIII and subcloned into the plant transformation vector pCLD04541. The resulting subclones were then used to transform eta2-1 plants. A single T8K22 subclone, designated clone 3E, was identified that complemented both the auxin-resistant root and dwarf phenotypes of the eta2-1 mutation. This construct carried a 16.4-kb insert that harbored three genes: At2g02550, At2g02560, and At2g02570 (Figure 5A). Three deletion derivatives of clone 3E were generated and transformed into eta2-1 plants. Only the ΔXba I construct was able to complement the eta2-1 mutation, suggesting that At2g02560 encoded ETA2 (Figure 5B). To confirm this possibility, the coding regions of the three genes were PCR amplified from eta2-1 plants and sequenced. We detected no sequence differences between eta2-1 and Columbia for At2g02550 or At2g02570, but we did identify a single base pair change in an exon of At2g02560. Based on the complementation and sequence analyses, we conclude that At2g02560 encodes ETA2. [[FIGURE]] A BLAST search of the National Center for Biotechnology Information database identified a full-length 4.1-kb cDNA for the ETA2 gene (NM_126312). ETA2 contains 28 exons and encodes a 1219–amino acid protein that is closely related (43% identity; 64% similarity) to the human CAND1/TIP120A protein (Figure 5C). CAND1 was recently identified as a CUL1 binding protein that has been proposed to regulate SCF ubiquitin ligase activity (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Unlike the human genome, which contains a second gene (TIP120B) that is closely related to CAND1, ETA2 is the only CAND1-like gene in the Arabidopsis genome. We used primers flanking the ETA2 open reading frame to amplify the coding sequence from RNA prepared from Columbia plants and sequenced the cloned RT-PCR products. Of the nine ETA2 RT-PCR clones analyzed, five were identical to the database cDNA entry, but four were missing the codons for amino acids 13 and 14 (Figure 5C). Analysis of the ETA2 genomic sequence revealed the presence of a cryptic/alternative splice acceptor site upstream of exon 3. Sequence alignments of the ETA2 amino acid sequence with human CAND1 and predicted CAND1 orthologs from several other species indicated that these two amino acids are not present in most CAND1 proteins. The eta2-1 mutation causes a Gly → Asp missense mutation at position 1069 of the ETA2 protein. This residue is absolutely conserved in all of the predicted CAND1 homologs we could identify in database searches, including mammals, Drosophila melanogaster, Caenorhabditis elegans, Dictyostelium, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, and several plant species (data not shown). A search of the SALK Institute's SIGnAL T-DNA database (CITATION) identified two lines containing T-DNA insertions within the ETA2 locus. SALK_110969, designated eta2-69, carries a T-DNA within exon 23 of the ETA2 gene, and SALK_099479, designated eta2-79, has a T-DNA insertion in the intron between exons 5 and 6 (Figure 6A). We confirmed the T-DNA insertion sites by sequencing PCR products and identified plants that were homozygous for the insertions. Protein gel blot analysis with an antibody we raised against an internal fragment of the ETA2 protein detected an ∼125-kD protein in wild-type extracts. This band was absent in extracts prepared from eta2-69 plants, demonstrating that the antibody recognizes the ETA2 protein and that this insertion mutation is an apparent null allele (Figure 6B, top). A weak band was detected in eta2-79 extracts (Figure 6B, bottom). Because the T-DNA in this line is in an intron, we suspect that the T-DNA may be spliced out of the ETA2 mRNA at low efficiency, allowing a small amount of ETA2 protein to be translated. By contrast, the ETA2 protein was present at wild-type levels in eta2-1 extracts, consistent with the finding that eta2-1 is a missense mutation. [[FIGURE]] Several aspects of the eta2-69 and eta2-79 plants resembled the eta2-1 mutant phenotype (Figure 6C). Like eta2-1, both insertion mutants were dwarves with increased numbers of rosette leaves in comparison to the wild type. All three eta2 alleles also conferred a wrinkly leaf phenotype, hypersensitivity to red light and abscisic acid, and delays in flowering time and senescence. Unlike the eta2-1 point mutant, both T-DNA alleles also conferred a dramatic reduction in fertility. Whereas eta2-1 plants exhibited only a slight reduction in seed set, eta2-69 and eta2-79 plants were almost completely sterile (Figure 6D). Genetic analysis of eta2-69 and eta2-79 backcrosses to Columbia (Col) confirmed that all of these phenotypes were linked to the T-DNA insertions within the ETA2 gene. Additionally, both T-DNA alleles failed to complement the eta2-1 mutation, confirming that all three mutations are allelic (data not shown). eta2-1/eta2-69 and eta2-1/eta2-79 heterozygotes were indistinguishable from eta2-1 homozygotes, indicating that the eta2-1 mutant protein retains some functional activity. Curiously, whereas eta2-1 and eta2-79 mutations conferred only a slight delay in flowering time (∼4 to 6 d), eta2-69 plants were severely delayed, with plants flowering ∼3 weeks later than wild-type controls under long-day conditions. CITATION report that an independently isolated null allele of ETA2 (cand1-1) also confers a severe delay in flowering time similar to that of eta2-69. We suspect that the eta2-79 mutation exhibits a less severe flowering time defect because of the residual ETA2 expression we observe in these plants. Feng and colleagues also report that eta2-79 (cand1-2) plants are late flowering. This discrepancy with our analysis of eta2-79 is likely because of differences in growth conditions between the two laboratories. Root growth assays on auxin containing media, as well as AXR2 pulse-chase assays, indicated that the eta2 T-DNA alleles conferred a reduction in auxin response. Surprisingly, however, this reduction was not as severe as that obtained with the eta2-1 point mutant (Figure 6E). Similarly, double mutant analysis revealed that the eta2-69 mutation enhanced the auxin response defect of tir1-1 but not to the extent of the eta2-1 mutation. These findings suggest that, although eta2-1 is recessive, the eta2-1 protein possesses a novel function that perturbs SCFTIR1 function to a greater extent than the complete loss of ETA2. We constructed an ETA2 promoter-GUS fusion construct to examine the pattern of ETA2 expression. ETA2 was expressed throughout young seedlings, with expression being very high in the root and weaker in the shoot (Figure 7A). In older seedlings, ETA2-GUS expression was strongest in root tips, within the root vasculature, and at the tip and base of lateral roots (Figures 7B and 7C). In addition, dark-grown seedlings exhibited strong ETA2-GUS expression in the elongating hypocotyl (Figure 7D). Expression was not affected by treatment with auxin or other plant hormones (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] We also analyzed ETA2 expression patterns by RNA gel blot and protein gel blot analyses using various tissues. ETA2 was expressed in all tissues examined, with levels being highest in roots and lowest in mature rosette leaves (Figure 7E). ETA2 protein levels were also examined in several mutant and transgenic lines with impaired SCFTIR1 function. Mutations in TIR1, ASK1, and ETA3/SGT1B did not affect ETA2 protein levels (data not shown). Because ETA2 interacts with CUL1 and CAND1 has been proposed to regulate CUL1 incorporation into the SCF complex, we were especially interested in what affect mutations affecting the RUB modification state of CUL1 might have on ETA2 levels. We detected a slight but consistent increase in ETA2 abundance in axr1-12 and axr6-2 extracts (Figure 7F). axr6-2 is a dominant mutation in the gene encoding CUL1 (CITATION). Curiously, both the axr1-12 and axr6-2 mutations result in an increase in the ratio of unmodified to modified CUL1 (CITATION; CITATION). By contrast, overexpression of RBX1, which results in increased RUB modification of CUL1 (CITATION), did not affect the level of ETA2 protein. At least in the case of axr1-12, the increase in ETA2 levels appears to occur at the transcriptional level. Like ETA2 protein levels, ETA2 transcripts were slightly more abundant in axr1-12 plants than in the wild type (Figure 7G). Figure 7G also demonstrated that ETA2 transcription is not regulated by auxin. Our genetic studies implicating ETA2 in SCFTIR1-mediated auxin response and the previously published reports that human CAND1 binds unmodified CUL1 prompted us to examine whether ETA2 interacts with the CUL1 subunit of the SCFTIR1 complex. We detected a strong interaction in vitro between a recombinant glutathione S-transferase (GST)-ETA2 fusion protein and CUL1 expressed in a reticulocyte expression system (Figure 8A). By contrast, GST alone failed to interact with CUL1 in this assay. The eta2-1 point mutation had no apparent affect on CUL1 binding in vitro. We attempted to coimmunoprecipitate CUL1 and ETA2 from plant extracts using antibodies raised against either protein. However, although both CUL1 and ETA2 were precipitated by their respective antibodies, we were unable to detect coimmunoprecipitation of the reciprocal protein (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Our finding that eta2 mutants exhibit reduced SCFTIR1 ubiquitin ligase activity prompted us to investigate the possibility that SCF assembly might be affected. We examined the SCFTIR1 complex in eta2 mutants by performing pull-down assays with a 6xHis-tagged AXR2 domain II fusion protein. Protein gel blot analysis with α-CUL1 and α-ASK1 antisera revealed that the eta2-1 and eta2-69 mutations conferred no change in CUL1, CUL1-RUB, or ASK1 levels in crude extracts (Figure 8B, lanes 1 to 3). In the AXR2 pull downs, however, we detected a consistent modest reduction in the amount of ASK1 that copurified with the AXR2 fusion protein (Figure 8B, lanes 4 to 7 bottom panel). At the same time, we observed a slight increase in the amount of CUL1 pulled down from eta2 mutant extracts (Figure 8B, lanes 4 to 7, middle and top panels). We repeated this analysis using a GST full-length AXR2 fusion protein and obtained similar results (Figure 8C).
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis thaliana lines employed in this study are in the Col ecotype, with the exception of ask1-1, which is in Landsberg erecta (Ler). For double mutant analysis with ask1-1, the eta2-1 mutation was introgressed into Ler by three successive backcrosses. Seedlings were grown under sterile conditions on vertically oriented ATS nutrient medium (CITATION). Adult plants were grown under long-day lighting. Conditions for the mutagenesis and screen for eta− mutants have been previously described (CITATION). A total of 609 auxin-resistant F2 seedlings from a cross between eta2-1 and Ler were used to prepare DNA for PCR-based mapping with codominant cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequence and simple sequence length polymorphic markers. We initially mapped the eta2-1 mutation to an interval between markers rga and ciw2 (http://www.arabidopsis.org). For fine mapping, we generated several additional markers in this interval using the Cereon Arabidopsis polymorphism collection (CITATION). Markers defining our final mapping interval were CER461163 (5′- GCGCGAGTATATCAATGAAC-3′ and 5′-GCTCTAATTATGGATGAAG-3′), which amplifies an simple sequence length polymorphic of 174 bp (Col) and 164 bp (Ler), and CER447661 (5′-GTGGTGTACTTGATGAACTTC-3′ and 5′-CAATTCCATTTGACAGCCATG-3′), which amplifies a 374-bp cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequence marker that contains an HpaI site in Ler but not in Col. These and additional markers in the mapping interval are available upon request. BAC clones T8K22 and T20F6 were partially digested with HinDIII and the resulting fragments subcloned into the HinDIII site of the plant transformation vector pCLD04541 (CITATION). Subclones were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens by triparental mating, which was then used to transform eta2-1 plants. A 462-bp EcoRI-XhoI fragment encoding amino acids 926 to 1080 of the ETA2 protein was cloned into the pET30A Escherichia coli expression vector (Novagen, Madison, WI). Expression was induced and the fusion protein purified on nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose agarose using standard protocols (CITATION). The fusion protein was eluted with imidazole and used to immunize a New Zealand white rabbit (Cocalico Biological, Reamstown, PA). α-ETA2 antisera was immunopurified using nitrocellulose-bound antigen (CITATION). CUL1 and ASK antibodies have been previously described (CITATION). AXR2 pulse-chase assays were conducted with 7-d-old seedling extracts as previously described (CITATION). AXR2 half-life was determined using a Molecular Dynamics PhosphorImager and ImageQuant software (Sunnyvale, CA) to quantify labeled AXR2 protein present in the immunoprecipitates. GST-ETA2 pull-down assays were performed by adding ∼1 μg of purified fusion protein to 25 μL of a TNT (Promega, Madison, WI) reticulocyte lysate reaction expressing CUL1. Reactions were diluted with 300 μL of buffer C (CITATION) containing 10 μM MG132, and incubated at 30°C for 2 h. Pull downs were washed three times with 1 mL of buffer C and analyzed by SDS-PAGE and autoradiography. GST-AXR2 and 6xHis-AXR2-dII pull downs were conducted with 1 μg of purified fusion protein and 2 mg of seedling extracts supplemented with 50 μM IAA. GST-AXR2 pull downs were washed three times with buffer C. 6xHis-AXR2-dII pull downs were washed three times with buffer C supplemented with 20 mM imidazole. Protein extraction and protein gel blot procedures have been described previously (CITATION). ETA2 immunoblots were quantitated using NIH Image with ECL exposures on preflashed autoradiography film. A 2.7-kb fragment containing genomic sequence from upstream of the ETA2 locus through the ATG start codon was cloned in frame with the GUS coding sequence of pBI101.2 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA). Seedlings were stained for GUS activity as previously described (CITATION).
