!~ABS~! Ubiquitin/proteasome-mediated protein degradation controls various developmental pathways in eukaryotes. Cullin-containing complexes are both versatile and abundant groups of RING family ubiquitin E3 ligases, whose activities are subject to control by RUB/Nedd8 (for related to ubiquitin/neural precursor cell-expressed developmentally downregulated 8) modification of their cullin subunits. Here, we report the identification of an Arabidopsis thaliana counterpart of human CAND1 (cullin-associated and neddylation-dissociated) and demonstrate that it can preferentially interact with unmodified CUL1. The Arabidopsis cand1-1 null mutant displays distinct phenotypes, including late flowering, aerial rosettes, floral organ defects, low fertility, dwarfism, loss of apical dominance, and altered responses to multiple plant hormones. Molecular analyses show that many of these defects are because of compromised activity of CUL1-containing ubiquitin E3 ligases, indicating that CAND1 is required for their optimal activity. Furthermore, the cand1-1 mutant displays a partial constitutive photomorphogenic phenotype and has defects in HY5 degradation in the absence of light, a process mediated by a different RING family E3, COP1. Thus, our data provides genetic support for a critical role of CAND1 in regulating various ubiquitin E3 ligases and their targeted cellular and developmental pathways.
!~RES~! A homology search using human CAND1 sequence (CITATION) identified a CAND1 homolog, At2g02560, in the Arabidopsis genome. The presence of multiple EST clones as well as a full-length cDNA (RAFL09-95-I08) in the RIKEN collection supports the expression of At2g02560. The full-length open reading frame (ORF) of Arabidopsis CAND1 was cloned by RT-PCR using RNA isolated from wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings, and sequence analysis confirmed its 100% identity to the reported full-length cDNA. The Arabidopsis CAND1 gene has 28 exons and encodes a protein of 1219 amino acids (accession number AY099857). The sequence identity of Arabidopsis CAND1 with other eukaryotic CAND1s is significant: 43% identity for mammals, 35% for Drosophila melanogaster, 33% for Caenorhabditis elegans, and 22% for fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces pombe). A phylogenetic tree based on CAND1 protein sequence homologies shows that CAND1 is evolutionarily conserved (Figure 1A). In each of those organisms, the RUB/Nedd8 conjugation pathway is essential (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Interestingly, CAND1 seems to be missing in budding yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), where RUB/Nedd8 conjugation is not essential (CITATION; CITATION). This is consistent with the notion that CAND1 may be functionally connected with RUB/Nedd8 modification. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the developmental function of Arabidopsis CAND1, we took advantage of the superior genetics available in Arabidopsis. We searched the available Arabidopsis T-DNA insertional mutagenesis collections and obtained three independent lines (Figure 1B; CITATION; CITATION; see Methods). All three T-DNA insertional mutations studied behave recessively (data not shown). Polyclonal antibodies raised against Arabidopsis CAND1 can detect a single band migrating around 120 kD in wild-type Arabidopsis protein extracts but not in any of the three cand1 homozygous T-DNA insertional alleles (Figure 1C). Thus, all three mutants likely represent true null or severe loss-of-function mutations for CAND1. Interestingly, the CUL1 protein level, in either the RUB-modified form or unmodified form, is not affected by any of the three cand1 mutations (Figure 1C). All three cand1 alleles produce similar phenotypes (Figure 1D). Basically, cand1 affects multiple aspects of the plant phenotype throughout development. Germination and seedling stage growth of cand1 mutants under normal conditions appear to be the same as wild-type Arabidopsis (data not shown). The phenotypes of cand1 mutants become more obvious later during development. As shown in Figure 1D, the rosette leaves of cand1 mutants are much smaller than those of wild-type plants and have a wavy morphology. The cand1 mutants flower later than wild-type plants, with an increased number of rosette leaves (Figures 1D and 4A), indicating that the vegetative to reproductive growth transition of the primary shoot apical meristem is affected. The growth of axillary meristems is also abnormal, where a large number of smaller leaves are produced (Figure 1D). Furthermore, the mutants have very low fertility, with less than one seed produced on average per silique (data not shown). Possibly because of their poor fertility, mutant plants continue to make new flowers while wild-type plants of the same age start to senesce (Figure 1D). Other notable phenotypes of cand1 mutants include dwarfism and loss of apical dominance. When examined closely, dwarfism largely results from reduced stem elongation (Figure 1D; data not shown), which is analogous to the gibberellin pathway mutants (CITATION). The cand1 mutants have a strong increase in the number of secondary inflorescences (Figure 1D), an indication that they have lost apical dominance, which is also observed in auxin response mutants (CITATION; CITATION). In later sections, we will provide evidence that both gibberellin and auxin pathways are affected in the cand1-1 mutant. To further confirm that the phenotypes observed are indeed attributable to cand1 mutation, we constructed a chimeric gene using the constitutive 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus to drive expression of a CAND1 cDNA, with three copies of flag tags at the N terminus of CAND1 protein. This construct was introduced into a cand1-1 mutant background to test functional complementation. Because the homozygous cand1-1 mutant produces very few seeds and is severely dwarfed, we first stably transformed the transgene into Arabidopsis plants heterozygous for cand1-1 mutation. In T1 generation, we selected plants resistant to antibiotic markers for both the transgene and the T-DNA and further confirmed their genotypes through PCR-based genotyping and segregation in their selfed progenies (data not shown). We examined expression levels of the FLAG-CAND1 fusion protein from the transgene as well as the endogenous CAND1 protein using total flower protein extracts. As shown in Figure 2A, although it's driven by a strong constitutive promoter, the level of FLAG-CAND1 protein is lower than endogenous CAND1 (lines 3-12 and 5-2). The FLAG-CAND1 expression is not enhanced in the cand1-1 mutant background either (Figure 2A, lines 5-4 and 6-7). As a likely result of this low expression level of the FLAG-CAND1, cand1-1 mutant phenotypes are only partially rescued by the transgene. Nevertheless, all of the key defects of cand1 mutants discussed in the previous section, including late flowering time, low fertility, reduced plant size, loss of apical dominance, and other features, are partially rescued to various extents (Figure 2B, lines 5-4 and 6-7). [[FIGURE]] Furthermore, we identified several cosuppression lines, in which endogenous CAND1 protein abundance is downregulated by the presence of the transgene, and no FLAG-CAND1 fusion protein is expressed (Figure 2A, lines 5-22 and 6-2). Remarkably, like the partially rescued lines, the cosuppression lines also display intermediate phenotypes compared with wild-type and cand1 mutants (Figure 2B). Thus, this observation supports the notion that FLAG-CAND1 is fully active and that the partial rescue in lines 5-4 and 6-7 is because of the low levels of the FLAG-CAND1 protein. Taken together, our data corroborates the linkage between the phenotypes and the cand1 mutations. These results also indicate that the level of CAND1 is critically important, suggesting that CAND1 may act as a rate-limiting factor in some cullin-containing ubiquitin E3 ligase function. Because FLAG-CAND1 is functional, it was used in an initial attempt to detect in vivo association of CAND1 and CUL1 by immunoprecipitation. When we pulled down FLAG-CAND1 using anti-FLAG antibody in extracts from the transgenic seedlings, we were able to detect the presence of unmodified CUL1 in the precipitate (Figure 3A). This result suggests that, like in mammals, CAND1 interacts with unmodified CUL1 in Arabidopsis. Because of the low ratio of RUB-modified CUL1 to unmodified CUL1 in the transgenic seedlings, the low sensitivity of this coimmunoprecipitation does not allow a conclusion to be drawn as to whether the RUB-modified CUL1 was excluded from precipitation or whether it was simply below the detection threshold (Figure 3A). [[FIGURE]] Next, to determine the specificity of the CAND1/unmodified CUL1 interaction, we took advantage of wild-type Arabidopsis plants that express the CUL1 protein with a modified tandem affinity purification (TAP) tag fused at either the N or C terminus. Whereas nearly half of the TAP-CUL1 (N-terminal fusion) is modified by RUB, all of the CUL1-TAP (C-terminal fusion) exists in the unmodified form (Figure 3B). Because RUB modification takes place at the CUL1 C terminus, a big C-terminal fusion such as TAP (34 kD) presumably blocks RUB conjugation. On the other hand, an N-terminal TAP fusion has no spatial conflict with RUB conjugation and for some unknown reason slows down RUB deconjugation. The different properties of these two fusion proteins provide an ideal system for testing their differential associations with CAND1 in vivo. Indeed, CAND1 can be readily detected in the IgG precipitate of CUL1-TAP but not in TAP-CUL1 (Figure 3B). Additionally, consistent with observations in human cells (CITATION; J. CITATION), CAND1 is not coimmunoprecipitated with ASK1-TAP (C-terminal fusion) in vivo (Figure 3C). This observation demonstrates that CAND1 does not interact with the C-terminal TAP tag itself, and the association between CAND1 and CUL1-TAP is specific. To further characterize the interaction between Arabidopsis CAND1 and CUL1, we tested their interaction in a yeast two-hybrid assay. Wild-type CUL1 interacts with CAND1 in yeast, as shown by an eightfold increase in β-galactosidase (β-gal) activity over the vector control (Figure 3D). When the RUB modification site on CUL1 (CITATION) is mutated from Lys to Arg (K682R), the β-gal activity is further increased by 10-fold (Figure 3D). It is shown in Figure 3E that Arabidopsis CUL1 is indeed modified by RUB in yeast, whereas the mutant CUL1 protein is not. Moreover, it appears that the amount of the mutated CUL1(K682R) and the total amount of the modified and unmodified wild-type CUL1 are of similar levels (Figure 3E). Thus, the residual interaction observed between wild-type CUL1 and CAND1 could be because of the presence of a fraction of the wild-type CUL1 in the unmodified form in yeast. It is also interesting to note that in this yeast two-hybrid assay, the N terminus of CUL1 is fused to LexA (25 kD), which argues against the possibility that N-terminal TAP tag might prevent TAP-CUL1 and CAND1 from interacting with each other in vivo. Collectively, our studies show that CAND1 preferentially interacts with unmodified CUL1. As described earlier, cand1 mutants flower later than wild-type plants, with an increased number of rosette leaves before bolting (Figures 1D and 4A). Even after they begin to flower, many more cauline leaves are still produced on the shoots, as compared with wild-type plants (Figure 1D). Furthermore, aerial rosettes are found in normal axillary branch positions (Figures 4B to 4E). The formation of aerial rosettes is attributable to the failure of axillary branch internodes to elongate immediately as they normally do in Columbia-0. This phenotype is observed in the late-flowering Arabidopsis ecotype Sy-0 (from Isle of Skye, UK), reflecting a defect in the vegetative/reproductive growth switch in the axillary meristem (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The cand1 mutant flowers have all the right organs, although they are much smaller (Figure 4F). We found that the mutant flower is poorly pollinated (data not shown). As a result, the silique of the mutant is very short and contains hardly any seeds (Figure 4G). Arabidopsis UFO is required for the expression of B-class floral organ identity genes that control petal and stamen development and encodes an F-box protein that incorporates into an SCF-type ubiquitin E3 ligase (CITATION; CITATION). We have previously reported a 35S:UFO-MYC overexpression line (UM), in which B-functions become ectopic and greatly enhanced, causing enlarged petal size, increased number of stamens, and filamentous carpels (CITATION; Figure 4I). We introduced the UFO-MYC transgene into the cand1-1 mutant background by genetic crossing. The cand1-1 mutants expressing UFO-MYC were selected by protein gel blot analysis (Figure 4H), and their flower phenotypes were compared with UM and cand1-1. Essentially, the flowers of UM/cand1-1 are identical to those of cand1-1 mutant and drastically different from those of UM (Figure 4I). Consistent with the phenotype observation, the UFO-MYC protein level is greatly downregulated in UM/cand1-1 flowers (Figure 4H). Evidently, SCFUFO activity is suppressed in the cand1-1 mutant, implying a positive regulatory role for CAND1 in maintaining SCFUFO ubiquitin E3 ligase activity during floral organ development. Another well-studied F-box protein in Arabidopsis is COI1, the central regulator of the jasmonate pathway (CITATION; CITATION). The cand1-1 mutant shows a dosage-dependent resistance to the root growth inhibition effect caused by jasmonates, especially at low concentrations of jasmonates (2 and 5 μM), where cand1-1 has an ∼50% increase in resistance compared with the wild type (Figure 5A). The cand1-1 coi1-1 double mutant has no enhanced resistance to jasmonates compared with the coi1-1 single mutant (data not shown). This supports the idea that SCFCOI1 controls most of the jasmonate-triggered responses (CITATION) and that CAND1 acts to optimize its activity. However, unlike UFO-MYC, the COI1 protein level is not changed in the cand1-1 mutant (data not shown). Thus, further evidence is required to substantiate that the enhanced resistance to jasmonates observed in cand1-1 is because of the reduction in SCFCOI1 activity. [[FIGURE]] The loss of apical dominance in the cand1 mutants is reminiscent of some auxin pathway mutants. Indeed, we were able to demonstrate that root growth inhibition by auxin in cand1-1 mutant is moderately relieved, which is comparable to axr1-3, a weak axr1 mutant (Figure 5B). In an independent study, CITATION identified a point mutation for Arabidopsis CAND1, which also causes an auxin-resistant phenotype and has synergistic effects with the tir1-1 mutation. Like UFO and COI1, TIR1 also encodes an F-box protein, and SCFTIR1 is required for auxin responses (CITATION). Together, these data provide evidence that optimal SCFTIR1 activity requires CAND1 function. As mentioned earlier, the dwarf phenotype of cand1 mutants might be caused by defects in gibberellin pathways. To test this hypothesis, we examined whether loss of CAND1 impairs gibberellin (GA) signaling pathways that also involve a specific SCF-type ubiquitin E3 ligase. SCFSLY1 is suggested to be responsible for targeting the GA pathway repressor of ga1-3 (RGA) for degradation in Arabidopsis (CITATION). Indeed, whereas RGA protein in wild-type Arabidopsis is barely visible in protein gel blot analysis, sly1-10, a mutant of the F-box protein in SCFSLY1, can accumulate a high level of RGA (CITATION; Figure 6A). Noticeably, the RGA protein level is also elevated in the cand1-1 mutant (Figure 6A), which likely contributes to the mutant dwarf phenotype. [[FIGURE]] RGA protein is destabilized rapidly upon addition of GA (CITATION; CITATION; Figure 6B, lanes 1 and 2). However, in the cand1-1 mutant, the GA-induced RGA protein reduction is partially compromised (Figure 6B, lanes 3 and 4). Therefore, it is conceivable that CAND1 is a positive regulator of SCFSLY1 and that in cand1 mutants, SCFSLY1 cannot achieve optimal activity, which results in a reduction of GA signaling. It is interesting to note that GA responses regulate floral pathway integrators (CITATION), which could provide a possible explanation for the late flowering phenotype of cand1 mutants. In addition, GA is also essential for petal and stamen development in Arabidopsis (CITATION), indicating another potential cause of the cand1 mutant flower phenotypes. As stated earlier, loss of CAND1 does not affect germination and seedling stage growth under normal conditions. However, when cand1-1 seedlings are grown in darkness, they exhibit mild constitutive photomorphogenic phenotypes, with short hypocotyls and opened cotyledons (Figure 7A). It has been shown that the extent of photomorphogenic development is directly correlated with the abundance of HY5, a photomorphogenesis-promoting transcription factor (CITATION). Consistent with this, we found that dark-grown cand1-1 mutant seedlings, whose degree of photomorphogenesis is in between light-grown and dark-grown wild-type seedlings, also accumulate an intermediate level of HY5 protein (Figure 7C, lanes 1 to 3). HY5 is degraded by the 26S proteasome upon transfer from light to dark (CITATION; Figure 7D, lanes 1 to 3). Evidently, HY5 protein is more stable in the cand1-1 mutant (Figure 7D, lanes 4 to 6). [[FIGURE]] The targeted degradation of HY5 in darkness requires COP1, a ubiquitin E3 ligase for HY5 (CITATION), and COP10, an E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme variant (CITATION). We crossed the cand1-1 mutant with cop1-6 and cop10-4, both of which are nonlethal alleles, to obtain genetic evidence for the functional interactions of CAND1 with COP1 and COP10. Remarkably, the dark-grown double mutants cop1-6 cand1-1 and cop10-4 cand1-1 have shorter hypocotyls than their parental single mutants (Figure 7B) and accumulate higher levels of HY5 as well (Figure 7C, lanes 4 to 7). These data suggest that CAND1 has synergistic effects with COP1 and COP10 in promoting HY5 degradation and in repressing photomorphogenesis in darkness. Considering that human COP1 has most recently been indicated to be an integral part of a CUL4A-containing ubiquitin E3 ligase (CITATION), it will be interesting to find out if this function of CAND1 is dependent on Arabidopsis CUL4.
!~MM~! The axr1-3, axr1-12 (CITATION), coi1-1 (CITATION), rga-24 (CITATION), sly1-10 (CITATION), cop1-6 (CITATION), and cop10-4 (CITATION) mutants and the 35S:UM (CITATION) transgenic plants were described previously. The wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana plants used in this study were of the Columbia-0 ecotype. To grow Arabidopsis seedlings, seeds were surface sterilized, put on MS plates (Gibco, Cleveland, OH) containing 1% sucrose, and cold treated at 4°C for 3 to 5 d before being placed in a standard, continuous white light growth chamber or in complete darkness at 22°C. To obtain adult plants, 7- to 9-d-old light-grown seedlings were transferred to soil and grown in a standard long-day (16 h light/ 8 h dark) growth room. For root growth inhibition assays, Arabidopsis seedlings were first grown on normal MS medium for 4 d and then transferred to MS medium containing different concentrations of methyl jasmonate (Bedoukian, Danbury, CT) or 2,4-D (Sigma, St. Louis, MO). Root length was measured 4 d after the transfer. GA treatment experiments were performed as previously described (CITATION). Full-length ORF of CAND1 was amplified by RT-PCR from wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings with forward primer (5′-CGCGGATCCGCATGGCGAACTTACAAGTTTC-3′) and reverse primer (5′-ATAAGAATGCGGCCGCTTACTCATTCCGGATTGTC-3′). The BamHI/NotI fragment of the PCR product was cloned into pEG202 (Origene, Rockville, MD) and then sequenced. This construct is named as pEG-CAND1, which served as the PCR template for subsequent cloning of CAND1 into other vectors. Based on a database search, we found one T-DNA insertion line for CAND1 in the GABI-Kat collection (Line ID 134H10; CITATION). Plants homozygous for the T-DNA insertion were identified by PCR-based genotyping. This insertional mutant is named cand1-1. The mutation cosegregates with the T-DNA insertion through a backcross to wild-type plants. Two additional T-DNA insertional mutants, cand1-2 and cand1-3, were found in the Salk collection (from Salk_099479 and Salk_110969, respectively; CITATION). The mutant plants were identified within segregating populations by phenotype resemblance to the cand1-1 mutant and confirmed by PCR-based genotyping. When not specified, we use cand1 to indicate all three mutants throughout the text. A KpnI/SalI fragment containing full-length CAND1 ORF was inserted into pF3PZPY122 (CITATION). Then, an XbaI/SalI fragment with the inserted DNA was subcloned into pJIM19(BAR), a plant binary vector that has basta-resistance marker and the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus. Arabidopsis plants heterozygous for cand1-1 mutation were used in the transformation of 35S:FLAG-CAND1 transgene. Transgenic plants were selected with sulfadiazine (100 μg/mL; Sigma) and gulfosinate-ammonium (20 μg/mL; Riedel-de Haën, Seelze, Germany). The cand1-1 mutants carrying 35S:FLAG-CAND1 transgene were identified by PCR-based genotyping. Full-length ORFs of Arabidopsis CUL1 and ASK1 were cloned via Gateway reactions (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) into plant binary vector with either N-terminal or C-terminal modified TAP tag fusion (CITATION). The transgenes were individually introduced into wild-type Arabidopsis. Transgenic plants were selected with gentamicin (200 μg/mL; Sigma). Arabidopsis tissues were homogenized in an extraction buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl2, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1× complete protease inhibitor (Roche, Indianapolis, IN). The extracts were centrifuged twice at 4°C for 10 min each, and the protein concentration in the supernatant was determined by Bradford assay (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). Protein samples were boiled in sample buffer, run on SDS-PAGE gels (8, 12, or 17.5%), and blotted onto polyvinylidene difluoride membranes (Millipore, Bedford, MA). The blots were probed with different primary antibodies. A BamHI/NotI fragment containing the first 630 nucleotides of CAND1 ORF was cloned into pET-28a (Novagen, Madison, WI). This construct encodes a fusion protein with 6X His tags and CAND1's N-terminal 210 residues. The fusion protein was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified with nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose beads (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). Polyclonal antibodies were raised by immunizing rabbits using purified fusion protein as antigen. Other primary antibodies used in this study include anti-CUL1 (CITATION), anti-RGA (CITATION), anti-HY5 (CITATION), anti-COI1 (CITATION), anti-RPN6 (CITATION), anti-TBP (CITATION), anti-MYC (CITATION), and anti-FLAG (Sigma). Procedures for yeast two-hybrid assays and bait construct for CUL1 have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION). To create a CUL1(K682R) construct, the adenosine at position 2045 of CUL1 ORF was mutated by PCR method to guanosine. A SalI fragment containing full-length CAND1 ORF was cloned into pJG4/5 (Origene) to make the CAND1 prey construct. For protein expression level detection, yeast cells were boiled directly in sample buffer and subjected to immunoblot analysis. The FLAG antibody pull-down and IgG pull-down experiments were performed as previously described (CITATION; CITATION) with minor modifications. The recipe of lysis/binding/washing buffer was 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EDTA, 10 mM NaF, 2 mM Na3VO4, 25 mM β-glycerolphosphate, 10% glycerol, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1× complete protease inhibitor (Roche). The acid elution and concentration steps were omitted. Sequence data for the protein sequences used in the phylogenetic analysis have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession numbers XP_125901 (mouse), NP_060918 (human), NP_609389 (Drosophila), NP_178360 (Arabidopsis), NP_507244 (C. elegans), and NP_593286 (S. pombe). The Arabidopsis CAND1 gene has been deposited under the accession number AY099857.
