!~ABS~! In contrast with animals, plant cells contain multiple mobile Golgi stacks distributed over the entire cytoplasm. However, the distribution and dynamics of protein export sites on the plant endoplasmic reticulum (ER) surface have yet to be characterized. A widely accepted model for ER-to-Golgi transport is based on the sequential action of COPII and COPI coat complexes. The COPII complex assembles by the ordered recruitment of cytosolic components on the ER membrane. Here, we have visualized two early components of the COPII machinery, the small GTPase Sar1p and its GTP exchanging factor Sec12p in live tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaf epidermal cells. By in vivo confocal laser scanning microscopy and fluorescence recovery after photobleaching experiments, we show that Sar1p cycles on mobile punctate structures that track with the Golgi bodies in close proximity but contain regions that are physically separated from the Golgi bodies. By contrast, Sec12p is uniformly distributed along the ER network and does not accumulate in these structures, consistent with the fact that Sec12p does not become part of a COPII vesicle. We propose that punctate accumulation of Sar1p represents ER export sites (ERES). The sites may represent a combination of Sar1p-coated ER membranes, nascent COPII membranes, and COPII vectors in transit, which have yet to lose their coats. ERES can be induced by overproducing Golgi membrane proteins but not soluble bulk-flow cargos. Few punctate Sar1p loci were observed that are independent of Golgi bodies, and these may be nascent ERES. The vast majority of ERES form secretory units that move along the surface of the ER together with the Golgi bodies, but movement does not influence the rate of cargo transport between these two organelles. Moreover, we could demonstrate using the drug brefeldin A that formation of ERES is strictly dependent on a functional retrograde transport route from the Golgi apparatus.
!~RES~! To visualize ERES in plant cells, we have fused the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) to the C terminus of a key component of the COPII machinery, Sar1p. Such fusions are known to preserve the integrity of the Sar1p N terminus that is crucial for its membrane anchoring (CITATION; CITATION). We expected that the C-terminal fusion with a fluorescent protein would not alter the distribution of Sar1-YFP relative to endogenous Sar1p. To test the functionality of Sar1-YFP, we determined whether this fusion protein and a GTP-restricted mutant carrying the H74L substitution were detected as intact fusion proteins and exhibited similar effects on protein secretion as the equivalent untagged Sar1p proteins (Figure 1). We transfected tobacco leaf protoplasts with the secretory marker α-amylase (CITATION) and a dilution series of either Sar1p, Sar1[H74L]p, Sar1-YFP, and Sar1[H74L]-YFP. Figures 1A and 1B show that neither Sar1p nor Sar1-YFP affected α-amylase secretion, similar to previous observations demonstrating that Sar1p dosage alone does not affect the secretory pathway (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). By contrast, the two molecules with the H74L substitution strongly inhibited the export of the marker (Figures 1A and 1B). [[FIGURE]] Protein gel blots with an anti–green fluorescent protein (GFP) serum (Figure 1C) indicated that the YFP fusions were present as full-length fusion proteins. The complete absence of degradation products and the similar inhibition profile of tagged and untagged Sar1[H74L]p rules out that proteolytic degradation fragments carrying the native Sar1p moiety were responsible for the effect. Moreover, YFP fusions were predominantly soluble, as shown previously for untagged Sar1p (CITATION). To analyze the subcellular distribution of Sar1p, Sar1-YFP was expressed transiently (Figure 2A) or stably (data not shown) in tobacco leaf epidermal cells. In both cases, a diffuse fluorescence was detected in the nucleoplasm (data not shown) and cytoplasm (Figure 2A), surrounding variously shaped and sized organelles, highlighted in negative contrast (Figure 2A, arrows). The distribution of fluorescence in the cytoplasm resembled cytosolic YFP (cYFP; Figure 2B) except for the presence of additional bright punctate structures (Figure 2A, white arrowheads) and ring-like structures (0.5- to 4-μm diameter; Figure 2A, bordered arrowhead). [[FIGURE]] We hypothesized that a general cytosolic distribution of Sar1-YFP could be linked to a rapid exchange of a small quantity of this protein on the ERES. To test if an increased availability of protein cargo could recruit Sar1p visibly at the ERES, we coexpressed two well-characterized GFP-Golgi markers: the Arabidopsis thaliana K/HDEL receptor fusion ERD2-GFP (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) and a GFP fusion with the last 58 amino acids of a rat sialyl transferase, ST-GFP (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). These two constructs are known to traffic actively between the ER and the Golgi bodies (CITATION; CITATION). We hypothesized that epidermal cells of expanded leaves would have a relatively low secretory activity (in comparison with growing cells), and, therefore, overexpression of these cargo molecules would induce a significant increase in the rate of export out of the ER and increased recycling of the proteins back to the ER. Coexpression of Sar1-YFP with either ERD2-GFP (Figure 2D) or ST-GFP (Figure 2E) resulted in a pronounced punctate appearance of Sar1-YFP in the vicinity of Golgi bodies (Figures 2D and 2E), in addition to the general cytoplasmic staining verified in cells expressing Sar1-YFP alone (Figure 2A). Moreover, additional Sar1-YFP bright punctate and ring-like structures were detected (Figures 2D and 2E, arrowheads). Both these structures did not colocalize nor move synchronously with a GFP-Golgi marker. Similar results were obtained with other known Golgi markers such as a GFP fusion of a sugar transporter, GONST1 (CITATION; data not shown), and α-1,2 mannosidase I-GFP (CITATION; data not shown). A cYFP construct coexpressed with ERD2-GFP did not reveal punctate structures colocalizing with the Golgi bodies but exhibited a homogeneous cytosolic stain (Figure 2C). This control experiment demonstrates that the punctate subcellular distribution of Sar1-YFP was not a general feature of YFP but was as a result of the Sar1p portion of the fusion protein. We also determined that the export of these Golgi proteins is COPII dependent by coexpressing the dominant negative mutant Sar1[H74L]p, which inhibits α-amylase secretion (Figure 1). Coexpression of this construct with either ERD2-GFP or ST-GFP induces a pronounced ER staining of the Golgi markers (Figures 2F and 2G). Therefore, cycling of both markers includes a COPII-dependent ER export step. Our combined results indicate that a redistribution of Sar1-YFP from the cytosol to the vicinity of Golgi bodies occurs upon overexpression of Golgi marker proteins, which follow the COPII route to reach the Golgi bodies. This suggests that the cargo may regulate the recruitment of Sar1p at the sites of protein export and initiate COPII-mediated transport. The close intimacy of Sar1-YFP–labeled structures and Golgi bodies prompted us to analyze the putative ERES/Golgi complex in further detail. We coexpressed Sar1-YFP with the Golgi marker ERD2-GFP, optically sliced the structures highlighted by the two fluorescent markers at the Sar1-YFP/Golgi complex, and collected a series of 0.43-micron optical sections along the z axis of the ERES/Golgi complex, starting from the cytosol toward the Golgi body (Figure 3A). The results show that the signal resulting from Sar1-YFP fluorescence overlaps initially with that of ERD2-GFP but that the ratio between the two fluorophores systematically shifts to ERD2-GFP. Eventually, the signal resulting from Sar1-YFP reduces to the noise value, whereas the ERD2-GFP fluorescence remains high. A control with an identical optical sectioning procedure on Golgi bodies labeled with ERD2-GFP and ERD2-YFP showed an even distribution of the two fluorochromes across an equivalent region (Figure 3B). The absence of a shift in fluorescence signal observed in this control rules out that the possibility that the Sar1-YFP and ERD2-GFP distributions are the result of chromatic aberrations. [[FIGURE]] We conclude that Sar1-YFP–labeled loci are physically distinct from the Golgi bodies and represent ERES, and will refer to these as such in the remainder of this article. Our proposed transport model is attractive because ER export would occur when cargo is present and not as a constitutive measure. However, it was now necessary to ascertain if the accumulation of Sar1-YFP at defined punctate structures could also be triggered by other cargo molecules. In particular, we wanted to test the bulk flow model for ER export, which was shown to occur at least partially via the COPII route (CITATION). If soluble proteins exit the ER by bulk flow, we predicted that soluble cargo should not recruit Sar1-YFP. For this purpose, we used an ER-targeted soluble GFP (secGFP; CITATION) that is secreted mostly into the apoplast (CITATION). We also coexpressed an ER-targeted and retained soluble GFP, which accumulates in the ER by virtue of the ER retrieval signal HDEL (sGFP-HDEL; CITATION). The latter should increase ER export even further because retrieved sGFP-HDEL would continuously join the de novo synthesized sGFP-HDEL. In contrast with the coexpression experiments with Golgi membrane markers, the cytosolic distribution of Sar1-YFP was not altered in cells coexpressing secGFP or sGFP-HDEL (Figure 4). The lack of accumulation of Sar1-YFP in discrete punctate structures in these cells suggests that soluble cargo, even when present in large quantities by the addition of an HDEL tag, does not visibly recruit the first key element in COPII-dependent transport. [[FIGURE]] To gain further insights on the dynamic regulation of the ER protein export machinery in vivo, we studied the Sar1p-specific guanine nucleotide-exchange factor Sec12p. This protein is an integral ER membrane protein that regulates recruitment of Sar1p onto the ER membranes and the subsequent COPII assembly and is excluded from COPII vesicles (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, it is an excellent model protein to characterize the ER export process further. To visualize Sec12p in the tobacco leaf system, we fused YFP to the C terminus of Sec12p, to orient the tag in the lumen of the ER, so as not to interfere with the functionality of the cytosolic site of Sec12p. Overexpression of Sec12p inhibits secretion, likely because of titration of Sar1p (CITATION). To test whether the Sec12p fusion protein retains the inhibitory effect of its untagged counterpart, we coexpressed untagged Sec12p or Sec12-YFP together with the secretory marker α-amylase in tobacco leaf protoplasts (Figure 5). Figure 5B shows that the fusion protein inhibits α-amylase secretion in a dose-dependent manner, as the untagged Sec12p (Figure 5A). The fusion protein exhibits the expected molecular mass of 70 kD, and it was not possible to detect a degradation product (Figure 5C). This is an essential control as it illustrates that fluorescence microscopy will reveal signals from the fusion protein and not degradation products, which may localize differently. Unlike the Sar1-YFP fusion, most of the Sec12-YFP fusion was detected in the membrane fraction. [[FIGURE]] Having established this functional aspect of the fusion protein, we now wanted to investigate if Sec12p is enriched at the ERES (Figure 6). When transiently expressed in tobacco leaf epidermal cells, Sec12-YFP localized to the ER (Figure 6A). To probe the mobility of Sec12-YFP in the ER membrane, we photobleached a region of the ER labeled with Sec12-YFP and followed the recovery of the YFP fluorescence in that region (Figure 6A). Upon bleaching, a full recovery of fluorescence within 10 to 20 s from the bleaching event occurred, indicating that Sec12-YFP was highly mobile in the ER membrane (Figure 6A). These data suggested that Sec12-YFP may need to be distributed evenly over the ER membrane to enable rapid exchange of Sar1p at the sites of protein export that are mobile along with the Golgi bodies. [[FIGURE]] To test this hypothesis, we transiently coexpressed the cargos ERD2-GFP or ST-GFP with low levels of Sec12-YFP that have little or no effect on ER–Golgi transport but can be detected at the ER. This would permit us to analyze, by analogy to Sar1-YFP, whether specific recruitment of Sec12p to Golgi-associated ERES could be observed in the presence of these cargo proteins. Figures 6B and 6C show that, unlike Sar1p, the exchange factor does not concentrate on the ERES. Under any condition and even at the lowest levels of expression, no localized concentration of Sec12-YFP was detected. Such an even distribution of Sec12p on the ER network has also been described in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (CITATION) and in mammalian cells (CITATION) but differs from the yeast P. pastoris, where discrete ERES contain COPII coat proteins as well as Sec12p (CITATION). To investigate whether the accumulation of Sar1-YFP in the vicinity of Golgi bodies is dependent on active secretion and represents a dynamic steady state between recruitment and dissociation of Sar1p via vesicle budding and uncoating, we blocked secretion with either BFA treatment or Sec12p overexpression in leaf epidermal cells coexpressing ERD2-GFP and Sar1-YFP (Figure 7). As expected, BFA treatment results in the rapid absorbance of Golgi membranes and redistribution of GFP-tagged Golgi markers into the ER (cf. Figure 7, −BFA and +BFA; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), an effect that is fully reversible (CITATION). Interestingly, BFA-treated cells also no longer recruited Sar1-YFP to the vicinity of Golgi bodies (Figure 7, +BFA). However, upon washout of BFA, Sar1-YFP accumulated near a reformed Golgi body (Figure 7, BFA recovery). Thus, Sar1-YFP sites are intimately and dynamically associated with the presence of newly formed Golgi bodies and are disrupted by Golgi breakdown induced by BFA. Interestingly, upon BFA treatment, the distribution of Sar1-YFP appeared reticular and closely resembled the distribution of ER labeled with ERD2-GFP in presence of BFA (Figure 7, +BFA). [[FIGURE]] Overexpression of Sec12p titrates Sar1p and efficiently inhibits COPII-dependent transport (CITATION). Indeed, cotransformation of stable transformants expressing either secGFP or ST-GFP with high levels of Sec12-YFP or untagged Sec12p drastically increased accumulation of either protein in the ER (data not shown). This is consistent with the inhibition of α-amylase secretion when large amounts of Sec12p are produced and shows that all three proteins require COPII-mediated transport to leave the ER (Figures 5A and 5B). We now wanted to test whether inhibition of COPII transport by Sec12p overproduction had an effect on Sar1p accumulation at ERES. We thus coexpressed untagged Sec12p together with ERD2-GFP and Sar1-YFP (Figure 7, +Sec12p). In these conditions, we observed that most of ERD2-GFP was displaced into the ER, and Sar1-YFP fluorescence reduced the appearance in discrete punctate structures. These data are comparable to the results with BFA (Figure 7, +BFA) and indicate that under conditions of disruption of anterograde transport between the ER and the Golgi bodies, Sar1p is no longer recruited to the sites of protein export. Moreover, upon overexpression of untagged Sec12p in cells coexpressing ERD2-GFP and Sar1-YFP, Sar1-YFP fluorescence resembled an ER-like pattern (Figure 7, +Sec12p) in comparison with a control (Figure 7, −BFA). Sec12p distributes at the ER membranes (Figure 6A), and its overexpression titrates Sar1p (CITATION). Thus, an increased number of Sec12p molecules available for interaction with Sar1-YFP may account for the distribution of the GTPase in a reticulated pattern. Both methods to disrupt protein traffic between the ER and the Golgi apparatus led to the disappearance of the Sar1-YFP–illuminated ERES and provide further evidence for our model. In tobacco leaves and suspension culture tobacco cells, Golgi bodies move on an underlying ER network in an actin-dependent manner (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). When we coexpressed ERD2-GFP and Sar1-YFP, we found that Sar1-YFP bodies moved synchronously within the vicinity of Golgi stacks over the ER (Figure 8). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the putative plant ERES highlighted with Sar1-YFP are dependent on similar forces that move the Golgi bodies, we used latrunculin B to depolymerize the actin. Under these conditions, movement of the Sar1-YFP bodies was inhibited along with that of the Golgi stacks, but the two structures remained colocalized (data not shown). This close association of Golgi stacks with Sar1-YFP accumulation and the absence of Sar1-free Golgi stacks suggest that the Golgi bodies and Sar1-YFP punctate structures behave as a single secretory unit that is mobile along the surface of the ER. The correlated movement of the Golgi bodies and Sar1-YFP along the surface of the ER suggests that ERES and Golgi stacks form functional units. Combined with the remainder of the data, we hypothesized that increased ER export of membrane cargo is associated with increased Sar1p recruitment from a cytosolic pool to the ERES/Golgi system. To test this hypothesis, we selectively photobleached the YFP and observed its recovery over time, while simultaneously monitoring the movement of the bleached structure using unbleached cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) or GFP fluorescence (CITATION). We cotransformed cells with ERD2-CFP and ERD2-YFP and specifically bleached YFP fluorescence. Figures 9A and 9C show that YFP fluorescence recovers while Golgi bodies are moving, for example, while the velocity of the Golgi bodies is >0. These data confirm that anterograde cargo can be delivered to moving Golgi bodies. [[FIGURE]] To test the validity of our hypothesis, we determined whether the COPII machinery is recruited during movement of the ERES. We coexpressed ERD2-GFP with Sar1-YFP and bleached selectively the YFP fluorescence (Figures 9B and 9D). Using the GFP fluorescence as a reference, we could show that the depletion of Sar1-YFP fluorescence within the region of moving Golgi bodies is followed by a rapid recovery (Figures 9B and 9D), indicating that Sar1p can exchange on and off ERES as these structures move in close association with the Golgi bodies along the ER surface. Next, we aimed to compare the dynamics of Sar1p recruitment from the cytosol to ERES with the kinetics of ER-to-Golgi transport of a Golgi membrane marker. Whereas the membrane protein can only reach the Golgi apparatus via membrane-mediated vectors, the GTPase can be recruited directly from the cytosol to the ERES. Thus, we hypothesized that GTPase recruitment would be rapid in comparison with ER–Golgi body transport. To test this hypothesis, we inhibited Golgi body and ERES movement with latrunculin B, which depolymerizes F-actin as described by CITATION, and performed fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) experiments on static Golgi bodies and Sar1-YFP structures. This permitted us to quantify the exchange rate of Sar1-YFP at the ERES in comparison with the exchange rate of the Golgi marker. We used the 458-, 488-, and 514-nm lines of an argon laser to simultaneously photobleach the GFP and the YFP fluorescence, and compared the fluorescence recovery of the two proteins. Upon bleaching, Sar1-YFP fluorescence recovered significantly more rapidly (12.6 ± 6.7 s) than ERD2-GFP fluorescence (105 ± 9.3 s), consistent with an exchange of the Sar1-YFP fluorescence with a cytosolic pool (Figure 10). When simultaneously photobleached, ERD2-YFP and ERD2-GFP fluorescence recovered with equal kinetics (i.e., 105 ± 21.5 s for ERD2-GFP and 106 ± 24.3 s for ERD2-YFP; Figure 10). This result confirmed that the rates of fluorescence recovery are not as a result of the expression of two different fluorochromes. [[FIGURE]] These data indicate that Sar1p exchanges rapidly from a cytosolic pool and that different cycles of Sar1p membrane binding and release at the ERES are needed for Golgi membrane proteins to exchange an entire Golgi protein pool from the ER. To further characterize the dynamics of the Sar1p steady state at the plant ERES, we investigated the distribution of the Sar1p-GTP locked mutant (Sar1[H74L]p). The Sar1[H74L]p mutant is still capable of GTP turnover but at a much slower rate than the wild-type counterpart (CITATION). It is predicted that mutant Sar1-containing COPII vesicles can bud but will accumulate to higher levels before fusion with the Golgi bodies because of a slow shedding of the coat that will retard fusion with the Golgi apparatus. This should result in a more pronounced visualization of a Golgi-associated ERES. To test this hypothesis, we expressed a YFP chimaera of the Sar1[H74L]p mutant in tobacco leaf epidermal cells (Sar1-GTP-YFP; Figure 11A) at low levels, to maintain reasonable ER-to-Golgi transport. In these conditions, cells expressing Sar1-GTP-YFP alone displayed numerous discrete mobile punctate structures in comparison with Sar1-YFP alone (Figure 2A). This supports the prediction that Sar1-GTP-YFP, once trapped on the sites of protein export by a slower GTP turnover, accumulates and therefore becomes more visible, even in the absence of the cargo that induces ERES. The results also indicate that Sar1-YFP–labeled ERES represent not only Sar1p-coated ER membranes and nascent COPII structures but also a localized pool of COPII vectors in transit. [[FIGURE]] To establish whether these Sar1-GTP-YFP structures localized in the vicinity of Golgi bodies and therefore mark the ERES, we expressed low levels of Sar1-GTP-YFP with ERD2-GFP. Under these conditions we observed that Sar1-GTP-YFP colocalized 98% with ERD2-GFP (Figure 11B) and moved with the Golgi bodies (data not shown). This finding supports the hypothesis that ERES and Golgi bodies are associated in plants. In cells expressing Sar1-GTP-YFP alone at higher levels, the fluorescence of the fusion was mainly restricted to the cytosol with a drastic reduction of the number of punctate structures visible in low-expressing cells (data not shown), suggesting that COPII-mediated protein transport was compromised under these conditions. To confirm that ER export was disrupted under these conditions, we transiently expressed Sar1-GTP-YFP with ERD2-GFP (Figure 11C) or secGFP (Figure 11D), to detect any alteration in the GFP fluorescence distribution pattern. As with the untagged Sar1p-GTP mutant (Figure 2F; data not shown), overexpression of the Sar1-GTP-YFP caused disappearance of the Golgi bodies in cells coexpressing ERD2-GFP (Figure 11C) and accumulation of fluorescence in the ER in cells coexpressing secGFP (Figure 11D). These experiments demonstrate that vesicle budding still occurs at a modest concentration of the dominant-negative GTPase. However, at high concentrations of the mutant GTPase, ERES themselves are compromised, possibly by a loss of other essential components, which normally recycle from the Golgi apparatus back to the ER but are now titrated out in fusion-incompetent COPII vectors.
!~MM~! Standard molecular techniques were used as described by CITATION. The fluorescent proteins used in this study were based on fusions with either mGFP5 (CITATION), ECFP, or EYFP (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA). The spectral properties of mGFP5 allow efficient spectral separation from YFP (CITATION). For Agrobacterium tumefaciens transient expression of untagged tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) Sar1p and its GTP mutant (CITATION), we used the binary vector pVKH18-En6 (CITATION), and we inserted the DNA coding sequence of the two proteins within the unique XbaI and SacI sites of the vector. For A. tumefaciens transient expression of Sec12p, the 35S-Sec12-3′nos chimeric gene (CITATION) was inserted as an EcoRI (partial HindIII) fragment directly into the polylinker of the binary plant vector pDE1001 (CITATION) cut with EcoRI and HindIII, followed by dephosphorylation. The resulting vector permits A. tumefaciens–mediated plant transformation using kanamycin resistance but also works in a 2- to 3-d infiltration essay without selection. For A. tumefaciens transient expression of fluorescent constructs, the coding sequence of tobacco Sar1p and its GTP mutant (CITATION) and Arabidopsis Sec12p (CITATION) were inserted upstream YFP, using the unique XbaI and SalI sites of the vector. To generate sGFP-HDEL, the coding region of a sporamin signal peptide fused in frame with GFP5 and HDEL (CITATION) was inserted in pVKH18En6 between the unique XbaI and SacI sites of the binary vector. The primer sequences used for the subcloning indicated above are available upon request. Four-week-old tobacco (cv Petit Havana) greenhouse plants grown at 25°C were used for A. tumefaciens (strain GV3101)–mediated transient expression (CITATION). The bacterial OD used for plant transformation was 0.01 to 0.05 for tagged and untagged versions of Sar1p, Sar1p-GTP mutant, and Sec12p, and 0.2 for ST- and ERD2-tagged constructs, secGFP, and sGFP-HDEL. For transient expression in protoplasts, tobacco plants (cv Petite Havana) were grown in MS medium (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) and 2% sucrose in a controlled room at 25°C with a 16-h-light/8-h-dark regime at the light irradiance of 200 mE m−2 s−1. Tobacco leaf protoplast preparation and subsequent DNA transfection via electroporation were performed as described by CITATION, and the plasmid concentrations used are given in the figures. After electroporation, the protoplasts were incubated for 24 h. After the appropriate incubation time, the suspension was spun for 5 min at 100g in a swing-out centrifuge (4K15; Sigma), which results in the floating of the cells. Using an extrafine Pasteur pipette, we removed 1 mL of clear supernatant from below the floating cell layer. The remainder of the suspension (1 mL) was brought to 10 mL with 250 mM NaCl and mixed gently by inverting the tube twice. After a second spin of 5 min at 100g, the supernatant was removed with a peristaltic pump, and the cell pellet was placed on ice. The cells were extracted in a final volume of 250 μL. Equal volumes of cell extract and culture medium were analyzed by protein gel blotting or by enzymatic analysis. Protein analysis of culture medium was performed after concentration with aqueous ammonium sulfate solution (60% final) on ice, using BSA at 0.5 mg/mL as a carrier. The protein precipitate was then resuspended in α-amylase extraction buffer, concentrating the culture medium samples 10-fold compared with the original volume. Cell proteins were analyzed separately as soluble phase and pelleted membranes. The analysis of soluble cell proteins was conducted after sonication of the protoplasts in α-amylase extraction buffer and centrifugation for 10 min at 25,000g at 4°C. The supernatant containing the soluble proteins was recovered. The pellet containing membrane proteins was resuspended by brief sonication. Both cell protein samples were resuspended to a 10-fold lower volume than the original cell suspension in α-amylase extraction buffer. Protein cell extracts or concentrated medium were loaded in equal volumes after 2× dilution with 2× SDS loading buffer (CITATION) and boiling. Protein in SDS–polyacrylamide gels were transferred onto a nitrocellulose membrane and then blocked with PBS, 0.5% Tween 20, and 5% milk powder for 1 h. The filter was then incubated in blocking buffer with primary antibody at a dilution of 1:10,000 for the anti-GFP serum and 1:5000 for the anti-IgG antibody. All the antisera were from rabbits, and further steps were performed as by CITATION. The cells were extracted in α-amylase extraction buffer (CITATION) via sonication for 5 s. The extracts were centrifuged 10 min at 25,000g at 4°C, and the clean soluble supernatant was recovered. The culture medium was also spun 10 min at 25,000g at 4°C to remove residual cell debris. The α-amylase assays and calculation of the secretion index were performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The secretion index represents the ratio between the extracellular and intracellular activity, and the total activity corresponds to the sum of the activity detected in the medium and in the cells (CITATION). Segments (roughly 5 mm2) of transformed leaves were used for drug treatment, confocal imaging, and analysis. For actin depolymerization, leaf tissue was submerged in 25 μM latrunculin B (stock solution: 10 mM in DMSO; Calbiochem, Nottingham, UK) for 1 h. BFA (stock solution: 10 mg/mL in DMSO; Sigma-Aldrich, London, UK) was used at a concentration of 100 μg/mL as described by CITATION. BFA washes were performed as described earlier (CITATION). All stock solutions were kept at −20°C, and working solutions were prepared fresh just before use. Transformed leaves were analyzed 48 h after infection of the lower epidermis. Confocal imaging was performed using an inverted Zeiss 510 laser scanning microscope and an upright Zeiss 510 META (Jena, Germany) and a 63× oil and water immersion objective. For imaging expression of either GFP constructs or YFP constructs or both, we used imaging setting as described by CITATION with a 3-μm pinhole diameter. Similarly, coimaging of CFP and YFP construct expression was done according to CITATION. In both cases, appropriate controls were done to exclude the possibility of energy transfer between fluorochromes and cross talk. In control experiments, we also used ERD2-YFP and ST-YFP in combination with Sar1-GFP and obtained accumulation of Sar1-GFP structures in the vicinity of Golgi bodies as for Sar1-YFP detected in coexpression of GFP–Golgi markers. Time-lapse scanning was acquired with imaging system software of the microscope. For optical sectioning the ERES/Golgi bodies complex, the optimal diameter pinhole was determined according to the manufacturer's instructions to produce the best signal/noise ratio, and was set to 1 Airy unit (<0.9 μm for GFP and <1.0 μm for YFP). Increments on the z axis of the ERES/Golgi complex were set at 0.43 μm. Fluorescence intensity measurements (plus tracking) and postacquisition image processing were done with Zeiss confocal and PaintShop Pro 7.0 software (Jasc Software, Eden Prairie, MN), respectively. Spot photobleaching recovery measurements were performed on an inverted Zeiss LSM 510 confocal microscope. FRAP experiments for dual fluorochrome photobleaching and half-time computation were performed as by CITATION. Significance statistics was determined using a Student's two-tailed t test for two samples assuming equal variance. As for the selective photobleaching of YFP in the CFP/YFP and GFP/YFP combinations, the method for selective YFP fluorescence bleaching was adapted from CITATION. For this, we used the 514-nm laser line of an argon laser while imaging either the CFP or GFP fluorescence with the argon 458-nm laser line in cells in which the Golgi body movement was not altered by the use of any drug. A small region of interest (4 to 9μm2) containing one or two target structures was selected in a cell coexpressing YFP and either GFP or CFP, and the fluorescence of YFP was bleached using a brief pulse of 100% 514-nm laser line. The YFP and GFP/CFP intensity of the fluorescence of the organelles of interest was recorded before the bleaching event and in the time after the bleaching event until fluorescence recovery plateau was achieved. This bleaching protocol leaves the fluorescence resulting from either GFP or CFP unaltered. Bleaching of YFP in the YFP/CFP or YFP/GFP couple allows monitoring of the CFP/GFP signal and simultaneous tracking and computation of the YFP signal recovery on a CFP/GFP-labeled structure with the fast scanning multitracking facility of the confocal microscope.
