!~ABS~! Inactivation of the Arabidopsis protein FERTILIZATION INDEPENDENT ENDOSPERM (FIE) induces division of the central cell of the embryo sac, leading to endosperm development in the absence of fertilization. The mechanism whereby FIE regulates this process is unknown. We postulated that activation of central cell division in fie mutant plants might involve the retinoblastoma protein (pRb), a cell cycle regulatory element. Pull-down and surface plasmon resonance assays demonstrated that FIE interacts in-vitro with the pRb homologues from Arabidopsis (AtRb), maize (ZmRb) and human (HuRb). The interaction of FIE with ZmRB and HuRb in the yeast two-hybrid system supports the possibility that a FIE-pRb interaction may occur also in planta. Mutational analysis showed that this interaction does not occur via the LxCxE motif of the FIE protein nor via the pocket B domain of pRb. These results suggest that FIE may inhibit premature division of the central cell of the embryo sac, at least partly, through interaction with pRb, and suppression of pRb-regulated genes.
!~RES~! To evaluate whether the Arabidopsis pRb (AtRb) can interact with FIE, a pull-down experiment was carried out. The results show (Fig. 1; see also Supplementary Fig. 1) that AtRb binds to GST-FIE, but not to GST alone. The binding was proportional to the amount of GST-FIE immobilized on the glutathione agarose beads, indicating the quantitative nature of the pRb-FIE interaction (Fig. 1). To test whether FIE can also interact with pRb proteins from other plant species, we performed a pull-down experiment using the pRb from the monocot Zea mays (ZmRb; Grafi et al. CITATION). The results showed that ZmRb, like AtRb, binds to GST-FIE but not to GST alone. The binding was proportional to the amount of GST-FIE immobilized on the glutathione agarose matrix, again indicating that the pRb-FIE interaction is specific (Fig. 2A). The interaction between FIE and ZmRb was also detected using the Biacore biosensor technique, as determined by the measuring the level of ZmRb that remained bound to FIE after the washing step (Fig. 2B, arrow 2). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  Since pRb is an essential cell-cycle regulator in eukaryotes, we tested whether FIE could recognize not only plant pRb but also an evolutionarily distant pRb homologue, namely human Rb (HuRb). Indeed, pull-down assays confirmed the interaction of GST-FIE with HuRb as well (Fig. 2C). The results presented so far demonstrated the interaction of pRb with FIE in vitro. To test whether such an interaction occurs in vivo we used the yeast two-hybrid system. Compared to a negative control, both ZmRb and HuRb were found to interact with FIE, as indicated by their ability to activate the synthesis of leucine and β-glucuronidase (Fig. 3). Thus, these results support the hypothesis that pRb and FIE interaction may occur also in plants. [[FIGURE]]  Binding of proteins containing the LxCxE motif to pRb has been shown to occur via the pocket B domain of pRb (Lee et al. CITATION; Williams and Grafi CITATION). The presence of an LxCxE motif at the C-terminus of FIE prompted us to examine whether the interaction between FIE and pRb requires the pocket B domain. Pull-down assays were performed between GST-FIE and three mutated pRb proteins: (1) AtRbΔ, which lacks amino acids 784–795 (part of the ‘pocket’ B domain); (2) ZmRbG706, in which cysteine 654 is replaced by glycine, impairing the function of the pocket B domain (Grafi et al. CITATION), and (3) HuRbΔ22, which lacks amino acids 853–869 (encoded by exon 22) part of the HuRb pocket B domain (Kaye et al. CITATION). The interaction of FIE with either Arabidopsis, maize or human pRb proteins was not affected by the mutations in the pRb pocket B domain (Fig. 4) as revealed by comparison with its binding to the wild-type proteins (Figs. 1, 2A and C), respectively. Thus, unlike other LxCxE domain-containing proteins, binding of FIE to pRb does not require a functional pRb pocket B domain. [[FIGURE]]  To examine whether the LxCxE motif on FIE is required for the FIE-pRb interaction, we generated a mutant FIE protein (FIEm) in which the wild-type segment 353LACCE357, corresponding to the LxCxE motif, was changed to the sequence 353AAVCQ357. The FIE LxCxE motif is located at the end of the WD 40 domain, at the C-terminal end of the protein. In designing the modified sequence, we retained the WD 40 consensus sequence, changing only the conserved residues of the LxCxE motif. The mutant FIEm protein lacking a functional LxCxE motif interacted with both AtRb and ZmRb in a pull-down assay (Fig. 5A and C; see also Supplementary Fig. 1). Furthermore, the mutated FIE (GST-FIEm) was able to bind both mutated AtRb (AtRbΔ) and ZmRb (ZmRbG706) (Fig. 5B and D), indicating that neither the LxCxE motif nor the pocket B domain is required for the interaction. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! A full length cDNA coding for AtRb was cloned by PCR amplification from a cDNA population generated from total flower RNA, using forward primer 5′-TATGCGGCCGCTATGGAAGAAGTTCAGCCTCCAG-3′ (containing a Not I recognition site at the 5′ end) and reverse primer 5′-CCGAGCCAACAGATTCATAGCTCGAGCCGCGGGGA-3′, which introduces a Sac II and Xho I sites at the 3′ end. The PCR product was cloned, sequenced and found to be identical to the previously described Arabidopsis Rb (Accession No. AF245395). Deletion of 11 amino acids from the B pocket domain, known to be essential for binding the LxCxE motif (Dahiya et al. CITATION), was accomplished by removal of the Sal I-EcoRV fragment at positions 2337–2388). Next, the flanking fragments of the vector were joined by a linker made out of two overlapping primers (5′-TCGATACATTGACCAGAT-3′ and 5′-TACATTGACCAGAT-3′) containing Sal I and Eco RV termini, respectively. The resulting vector, designated AtRbΔ, was propagated and verified by sequencing to lack the sequence between positions 2352 to 2384 that codes for amino acid residues 784–794. A mutated form of FIE, in which the LxCxE motif was constructed, and designated FIEm. In FIEm the wild-type sequence 353LACCE357 was replaced by the motif 353AAVCQ357. The corresponding clone was generated by PCR using primers 5′-CCGCTCGAGCTACTTGGTAATCACGTCCCAGCGCCATATAGTCCCGTCCTGGCAGACAGCAGCAATCG-3′ and 5′-CGGGATCCATGTCGAAGATAACCTTAG-3′, and verified by sequencing. Pull-down assays were performed as described by Yadegari et al. (CITATION). A GST-FIE fusion protein was expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 cells and immobilized on glutathione agarose beads. Beads were incubated with radioactively labeled candidate proteins. To this end, the relevant wild type and mutant candidate genes were cloned into, and expressed from, the vector pRC (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif., USA) or pCITE 3a (Novagen, Darmstadt, Germany). Protein labeling was performed using a coupled transcription-translation system in a reticulocyte lysate system (Promega, Madison, Wis., USA) according to the manufacturer’s instructions using radiolabeled [35S]methionine (Amersham-Pharmacia). Following SDS/PAGE, the translated ZmRb, HuRb, ZmRbG706 and HuRbΔ22 products appeared as a major band of 55 kDa, while AtRb and AtRbΔ products appeared as a major band of 120 kDa, as expected (see Supplementary Fig. 1). The yeast two-hybrid assays were carried out using the yeast strain EGY048, which was transformed with the Matchmaker LexA two-hybrid system (Mendelsohn and Brent CITATION). The system consists of two plasmids: (1) pEG202 expressing a LexA-fused bait, and (2) pJG4-5 expressing a Gal4 transactivation domain fused to interacting partner proteins. The FIE cDNA was cloned into the pJG4-5 vector; ZmRB and HuRb cDNAs were cloned into the pEG202 vector. Yeast containing pJG4-5 and pEG202 vectors were grown on selective medium lacking tryptophan or histidine, respectively. Yeast containing the pSH18-34 vector, which carries the lacZ gene for β-galactosidase under the control of a LexA operator, were selected on media lacking uracil. As a positive control, yeast expressing FIE from pJG4-5 and containing pSH17-4 were used; the latter plasmid codes for the binding domain of LexA fused to the activation domain of GAL4. The negative control was provided by yeast expressing FIE from pJG4-5 and LexA fused to the homeodomain protein BICOID from the pRFHM1 vector (Gyuris et al. CITATION). The HuRb and ZmRb clones used in these experiments were previously shown to be unable to activate the reporter markers by themselves (Williams and Grafi CITATION). Interaction assays were performed by growing yeast on synthetic dropout media (Bio101, Vista, Calif., USA) lacking histidine, tryptophan and uracil, to select for the relevant plasmids, and lacking leucine to allow detection of protein-protein interactions. Surviving colonies were replicated onto nitrocellulose filters containing 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-galactopyranoside (X-Gal) as substrate for β-galactosidase activity assays to verify the interaction by an independent assay (Breeden and Nasmyth CITATION). Surface plasmon resonance measurements were carried out using a Biacore 3000 instrument (Biacore AB, Uppsala, Sweden). All experiments were conducted at 25°C. GST-FIE was immobilized on a flow-cell of a CM5 sensor that contained carboxymethyldextran as the surface matrix, using amine coupling chemistry (Johnsson et al. CITATION). The CM5 sensor chip, N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS), N-ethyl-N’ (3-dimethylaminopropyl)-carbodimide hydrochloride (EDC) ethanolamine-HCl and HBS-EP running buffer [10 mM HEPES, 150 mM NaCl, 3.4 mM EDTA and 0.005% (v/v) surfactant P20 at pH 7.4] were purchased from Biacore. Immobilization of the protein was carried out at a flow rate of 10 μl/min in HBS-EP buffer. The surface was activated for 7 min with a mixture containing 0.05 M NHS, 0.02 M EDC, than injected with 35 μg/ml GST-FIE in 10 mM acetate (pH 3.5), until the desired level of binding [2500 Resonance Units (RU)] was achieved. A 1 M solution of ethanolamine (pH 8.5) was injected for 7 min to block the remaining activated groups. A control flow-cell surface was prepared by binding GST in the same manner. To test for binding, a 2 μM solution of GST-ZmRb (Grafi et al. CITATION) in PBS (150 mM NaCl, 2.7 mM KCL, 10 mM Na2HPO4 and 1.4 mM KH2PO4, pH 7.4) was passed over each of the flow cells, followed by a flow of HBS (10 mM HEPES pH 7.4, 150 mM NaCl, 3.4 mM EDTA and 0.005% Tween 20) to allow dissociation.
