!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase 2 (MKK2) and the downstream MAPKs MPK4 and MPK6 were isolated by functional complementation of osmosensitive yeast mutants. In Arabidopsis protoplasts, MKK2 was specifically activated by cold and salt stress and by the stress-induced MAPK kinase kinase MEKK1. Yeast two-hybrid, in vitro, and in vivo protein kinase assays revealed that MKK2 directly targets MPK4 and MPK6. Accordingly, plants overexpressing MKK2 exhibited constitutive MPK4 and MPK6 activity, constitutively upregulated expression of stress-induced marker genes, and increased freezing and salt tolerance. In contrast, mkk2 null plants were impaired in MPK4 and MPK6 activation and were hypersensitive to salt and cold stress. Full genome transcriptome analysis of MKK2-overexpressing plants demonstrated altered expression of 152 genes involved in transcriptional regulation, signal transduction, cellular defense, and stress metabolism. These data identify a MAP kinase signaling cascade mediating cold and salt stress tolerance in plants.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis MAPKK MKK2 was isolated by functional complementation of the osmosensitive yeast strain pbs2Δ, lacking the MAPKK of the HOG1 pathway (data not shown). To isolate potential downstream MPKs of MKK2, we used a pbs2Δ hog1Δ double mutant expressing Arabidopsis MKK2. In this screen, we isolated only MPK6 but no other MAPK. To test the specific requirement for MPK6 in this functional complementation, we tested the most closely related Arabidopsis MAPKs MPK4 and MPK3, which are also stress activated CITATION, by cotransforming a pbs2Δ hog1Δ strain with these MAPKs and MKK2. MPK6, and to a lower degree MPK4, complemented the pbs2Δ hog1Δ mutant, but only in the presence of MKK2 CITATION . In contrast, MKK2 could not complement the pbs2Δ hog1Δ mutant when coexpressed with MPK3 CITATION. To test whether the closely related MAPKK MKK1 can complement pbs2Δ hog1Δ mutant yeast, MPK3, MPK4 and MPK6 were also coexpressed with MKK1 in this strain. However, no complementation was obtained in any of the three combinations (see Supplemental Figure S1A at http://www.molecule.org/cgi/content/full/15/1/141/DC1). To test for direct interaction of different MPKs with MKK2, we cloned twelve Arabidopsis MAPKs, representing all MAPK subfamilies into the GAL4 activation domain vector pGAD and measured their interaction with MKK2 in quantitative β-galactosidase assays. MKK2 showed strongest interaction with MPK4 and MPK6 and to a much lower degree also with MPK5 CITATION. For comparison, we also tested MKK1 as the most closely related MAPKK of MKK2 in Arabidopsis. In contrast to MKK2, MKK1 interacted selectively with MPK4 (Supplemental Figure S1B). To investigate whether MKK2 can phosphorylate MPK4 and MPK6, we expressed and purified recombinant kinase inactive GST fusion proteins of MPK3, MPK4, and MPK6. MKK2 was immunoprecipitated from transiently transformed protoplasts under control of the 35S Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) promoter and tested for its ability to phosphorylate MPK3, MPK4, and MPK6 in vitro after activation by cold stress for 10 min at 4°C. As shown in CITATION, MPK4 and MPK6 were phosphorylated by MKK2 but not MPK3. As a control, recombinant MPK3, MPK4, and MPK6 were also tested for phosphorylation by MKK1. For this purpose, MKK1 was similarly expressed in protoplasts but this time activated by H2O2 as cold did not activate MKK1 (see below). Whereas MPK4 was phosphorylated by MKK1, no increase in MPK3 or MPK6 phosphorylation could be detected (Supplemental Figure S1C). To verify this result under more natural conditions, we tested the activation of different MPKs by MKK2 in Arabidopsis protoplasts using a constitutively active MKK2 allele (MKK2-EE). For this purpose, protoplasts were cotransformed with MYC epitope-tagged wild-type (MKK2-wt) or constitutively active MKK2 (MKK2-EE) in the presence of different HA epitope-tagged MPKs. After immunoprecipitation of the MPKs, activation of the MAPKs was determined by in vitro kinase assays with myelin basic protein (MBP) as artificial substrate. Whereas little activation of MPKs was seen upon coexpression with wild-type MKK2, MPK4 and MPK6 were strongly activated by constitutively active MKK2 CITATION . Consistent with the much weaker yeast two-hybrid interaction CITATION, MPK5 was also activated to a much lesser extent in these assays. As shown by protein gel blot analysis for MPK proteins (anti-HA antibody) and for MKK2 (anti-myc antibody) (CITATION, lower panels), different expression levels of MKK2 and MPKs could not account for the observed differences in activation levels. These results show that MKK2 has the potential to activate MPK4, MPK5, and MPK6. To address the question of which stimuli might trigger the MKK2 pathway in plant cells, we expressed HA epitope-tagged MKK2 and MKK1 in protoplasts and measured phosphorylation of recombinant kinase-inactive GST-MPK4 as a common substrate following different stress treatments. As shown in CITATION, MKK2 was activated by salt and cold stress, but not by heat, hydrogen peroxide, the flagellin-derived bacterial peptide elicitor flg22 or laminarin (lam), a β-glucan. In contrast, MKK1 was not activated by salt, cold, and heat stress conditions, but by hydrogen peroxide, flg22, and laminarin CITATION. These data indicate that MKK2 is activated in vivo in response to salt and cold stress. We obtained an MKK2 T-DNA insertion line from the Syngenta Arabidopsis Insertion Library. This line carries a single T-DNA insertion in intron 5 of the MKK2 gene (CITATION ; Experimental Procedures), leading to an mRNA null phenotype CITATION. We also generated MKK2-overexpressing lines in the Columbia (Col-0) background using either wild-type MKK2-WT or constitutively active MKK2-EE genes expressed as MYC-epitope-tagged versions under control of the constitutive 35S CaMV promoter. mkk2 null and MKK2 overexpressor plants had no obvious phenotype under normal ambient conditions but showed strong differences upon cold and salt stress treatments. As shown in CITATION, MKK2-EE-overexpressing plants displayed increased freezing tolerance compared to wild-type or mkk2 null plants. While wild-type and MKK2-EE-overexpressing plants survived freezing conditions after cold acclimation, mkk2 null plants were hypersensitive to cold stress. We obtained similar results with nine different MKK2-overexpressing lines in at least three independent assays. To analyze salt tolerance of the MKK2-overexpressing lines and the mkk2 null plants, we analyzed the ability of these lines to germinate on salt-containing media. Compared to wild-type Col-0, mkk2 null plants were strongly compromised to germinate on salt-containing media CITATION. In contrast, MKK2-overexpressing lines showed slightly improved ability to germinate on salt-containing media (data not shown). A quantification of the differences in the germination ability of the different lines on salt-containing media confirmed the qualitative analysis CITATION, showing that the MKK2 gene is important for conferring salt stress tolerance. To investigate the molecular mechanism of MKK2 action in the cold stress response, MPK4 and MPK6 activation was analyzed in wild-type Col-0 and mkk2 null plants. For this purpose, endogenous kinase activities of MPK4 and MPK6 were determined after cold treatment using immunocomplex kinase assays. Endogenous MPK4 or MPK6 was immunoprecipitated from leaf protein extracts with antibodies directed against MPK4 or MPK6. In vitro kinase assays with MBP as substrate revealed that MPK4 and MPK6 were both activated by cold treatment at 15 min in wild-type Col-0 plants CITATION . In the mkk2 null line, cold-induced activation of MPK4 was almost undetectable, whereas MPK6 activation was significantly reduced, but not completely abrogated CITATION. These data suggest that MKK2 is more important for cold-induced activation of MPK4 than for MPK6, consistent with the stronger interaction of MPK4 with MKK2 in yeast two-hybrid assays CITATION and the stronger activation of MPK4 by MKK2 in vitro and in vivo CITATION. Protein levels of MPK4 and MPK6 remained constant throughout cold treatment, confirming that activation of MPK4 and MPK6 occurs primarily by posttranslational modification. To clarify whether MKK2 functions in transcriptional regulation of cold and salt stress genes, we compared MKK2 kinase activities with transcript levels of several known stress marker genes. MKK2 kinase activity in the overexpressor lines was determined by immunocomplex kinase assays using a MYC-specific antibody for precipitation of MKK2 and recombinant kinase-inactive GST-MPK4 as substrate CITATION . Although some differences were observed between different MKK2 overexpressor lines, in general, lines overexpressing constitutively active MKK2 (MKK2-EE) had higher MKK2 kinase activity compared to lines overexpressing wild-type MKK2 (MKK2-WT). We next performed RT-PCR analysis for seven genes known to be upregulated upon cold and salt stress treatment CITATION and actin as control CITATION. RAV1, STZ, CBF2, and CBF3 encode four transcription factors that are strongly induced within 30 min after cold and salt stress in Arabidopsis CITATION. Compared to wild-type plants, the four transcription factors were upregulated in the MKK2-overexpressing lines under nonstress conditions. ACS6, encoding aminocyclo-propane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) synthase; FAD8, encoding a chloroplast localized fatty acid desaturase, and P5CS, encoding a key enzyme in proline biosynthesis, also exhibited increased expression levels in the MKK2-overexpressing lines. Overall, plants overexpressing the constitutively active MKK2 allele showed higher expression levels of the seven selected stress marker genes than lines overexpressing wild-type MKK2. These data show that ectopic MKK2 activity is correlated with upregulation of salt and cold stress marker genes. To define the total regulon of genes controlled by MKK2, DNA microarray analysis was carried out on two MKK2-overexpressing lines, MKK2-WT4 and MKK2-EE4 under normal growth conditions. After preparation of total RNA from these lines and wild-type plants, transcriptome analysis was performed using the Arabidopsis ATH1 Genome Array from Affymetrix (Experimental Procedures), representing ∼24,000 Arabidopsis genes. Gene expression ratios were calculated, comparing expression levels in MKK2-WT4 and MKK2-EE4 to those of Col-0 wild-type plants. A final set of 152 genes showing at least 3-fold or greater expression difference in the two comparisons was selected and subjected to hierarchical clustering CITATION . These genes were divided into two groups according to their expression characteristics: Cluster I represents the 127 genes that are upregulated at least 3-fold in the MKK2-overexpressing lines, while the 25 cluster II genes exhibit reduced expression levels in the MKK2-overexpressing lines relative to wild-type plants CITATION. In general, when compared to MKK2-WT wild-type overexpressor lines, the MKK2-EE lines had a stronger quantitative effect on the upregulation of most of the genes that were identified.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was used as genetic background. Seeds were germinated on 0.5× MS medium (Sigma), and plants were grown at 50 μE cool white light under long day conditions (16 hr light/8 hr dark). Arabidopsis protoplasts were prepared from a suspension culture as described in CITATION. The osmosensitive yeast strain PBS2::HIS3 CITATION was used for complementation with an Arabidopsis cDNA library CITATION. Positive clones were selected on media containing 400 mM NaCl and analyzed by DNA sequencing. Subsequently, a hog1Δ, pbs2Δ double null strain was generated (HOG1::TRP; PBS2::HIS) and transformed with the Arabidopsis MKK2 gene cloned into the yeast expression vector YEp181 CITATION before performing a second screen. Complementation of the hog1Δ, pbs2Δ mutant was done with the open reading frames of MPK4, MPK6, MKK1, and MKK2, cloned in the yeast vectors pRS316 (MPKs) or pRS315 (MKKs) under control of the ADH promoter CITATION. Osmosensitivity of yeast strains was tested by spotting serial dilutions of logarithmically growing cells onto selective plates with and without salt. Quantitative yeast two-hybrid assays were done as described in CITATION using the yeast two-hybrid strain L40 and the vectors pBTM116 CITATION for the LexA-BD fusions of the MKKs, and pGAD424 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) for the Gal4-AD fusions of the MPKs. Open reading frames of the different MPKs and MKKs were amplified from a cDNA library CITATION with an NcoI restriction site at the 5′ end and a NotI restriction site in front of the stop codon. The NotI restriction site was used to introduce either a triple hemagglutinin (HA) epitope or a c-MYC epitope. Gain-of-function (GOF) alleles of MKK2 were generated by changing both putative phosphorylation sites to glutamate residues (T220E and T226E). These point mutations resulted in a constitutively active kinase (MKK2-EE). Escherichia coli strain BL-21 codon plus (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) was transformed with each expression construct, cloned into the pGEX4-T1 vector (Amersham-Pharmacia Biotech, UK). Growth of bacteria and isolation of recombinant GST-fusion proteins were done according to CITATION. Protein extracts were either prepared from protoplasts as described in CITATION or from 200 mg of frozen leaves in 200 μl Lacus buffer and sea sand according to CITATION. The coding regions of MPK3, MPK4, and MPK6 were cloned into pGEX-4T-1 vector and expressed as glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion proteins in BL21 codon plus E. coli cells (Stratagene). Kinase inactive GST-MPKs (1 μg) were incubated in 20 μl of kinase reaction buffer (50 mM Tris [pH 7.5], 1 mM DTT, 10 mM MgCl2, 0.1 mM ATP, and 6 μCi of 32P-ATP) with immunoprecipitated HA epitope-tagged MKK2 from protoplasts, either without or with previous activation of MKK2 by cold treatment (10 min at 0°C) or of MKK1 by H2O2 treatment (2 mM, 10 min). Kinase inactive GST-MPK fusion proteins were generated by exchanging a conserved lysine residue in the ATP binding domains to methionine and arginine using the Quik-Change kit from Stratagene. The point mutations were K66M, K67R for MPK3; K72M, K73R for MPK4, and K92M, K93R for MPK6, respectively. Kinase reactions were stopped after 30 min by adding 4 μl SDS loading buffer and heating for 5 min at 95°C. Reaction products were analyzed by SDS-PAGE, autoradiography, and Coomassie brilliant blue R250 staining. The open reading frames of MPK1 to MPK7 and of MKK1 and MKK2 were cloned into the plant expression vector pRT100 CITATION and fused at their C-terminal end either to a triple hemagglutinin (HA) epitope (MPKs) or to a c-MYC epitope (MKKs). Arabidopsis protoplasts transient expression assays were done as described CITATION. Immunocomplex kinase assays were done according to CITATION. A MKK2 T-DNA null line (Garlic_511_H01.b.1a.Lb3Fa) was obtained from the Syngenta Arabidopsis Insertion Library (SAIL), Torrey Mesa Research Institute (San Diego, CA). Seeds were sown on BASTA-containing media and single BASTA-resistant plants were propagated as individual lines and analyzed by PCR, using gene-specific (MKK2-Nt) and T-DNA-specific (LB1) primers. Insertion of the T-DNA into intron 5 of MKK2 was confirmed by sequencing of the PCR products CITATION. Further selection of the MKK2 null lines was done by additional PCR analysis using gene specific primers, priming at the N and C terminus of MKK2 (MKK2 Nt and MKK2 Ct) to amplify the genomic MKK2 fragment (1.9 kb for the wild-type MKK2 gene and 6.7 kb with the T-DNA insertion). Lines putatively homozygous for the T-DNA insertion were subjected to RT-PCR analysis and Southern blotting. Wild-type (WT) or constitutive active MKK2 (EE) was cloned into the binary plant expression vector pGreenII 0029 CITATION under control of the 35S promoter and transformed as MYC-epitope-tagged versions using the floral dipping method CITATION into Col-0 wild-type plants. Transformed plants were selected by growth on kanamycin-containing media. Plants of the second generation after transformation were used for the experiments. Plants sown on agar plates were transferred to soil after 10 days and grown for 3 weeks under long day conditions (16 hr light). Subsequently, one set of plants was incubated for 30 hr at −4°C in the dark (cold shock). Another set of plants was incubated for 24 hr at +4°C (acclimation period) and then subjected to the freezing treatment. A third set of plants was not treated at all and used as control group. To minimize light stress effects, plants were kept out of direct light in the growth chamber for 24 hr after the freezing treatment before returning them to normal light conditions. Pictures were taken 3 days after freezing treatment. Effects of salt on the germination ability were examined by sowing sterilized seeds on 0.5× MS plates with different salt concentrations (0, 100, and 150 mM NaCl, respectively). A total number of about 150 plants were counted per salt concentration. Leaves from 2-week-old Arabidopsis plants were detached and immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. One hundred milligrams of leaf material was processed in one sample. RNA was isolated according to manufacturer's instruction using RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). Concentration and purity of RNA was determined by measuring OD at 260 nm and 280 nm. RT-PCR was carried out according to CITATION. PCR products were separated on 1.5% agarose gels. The following primers were used. At4g11280: ACS6-1, 5′-CCACCCTGTCATTGTAAG-3′, and ACS6-2, 5′-GAGCGGCGGCGCAACCGGAG-3′. At2g37620: ACT3-1, 5′-ATGGTTAAGGCTGGTTTTGC-3′, and ACT3-2, 5′-AGCACAATACCGGTAGTACG-3′. At4g25470: CBF2-1, 5′-TCTGAAATGTTTGGCTCCG-3′ and CBF2-2, 5′-CTTCATCCATATAAAACGC-3′. At5g05580: FAD8-1, 5′-GCCATGACTGCGGACATGG-3′, and FAD8-2, 5′-AGATGATAATGTGGGATCTGCGG-3′. At4g29810: MKK2-1, 5′-CCAAATTCCTGACTCAAAGCGG-3′, and MKK2-2, 5′-CTTCTCCTCTGTGGTTGATC-3′. At4g01370: MPK4-1, 5′-GGAATTGTCTGTGCTGCTACA-3′, and MPK4-2, 5′-CCAGCAAATCGACTGCACCAG-3′. At2g39800: P5CS-1, 5′-GGAGGAGCTAGATCGTTCAC-3′, and P5CS-2, 5′-TCAGTTCCAACGCCAGTAGA-3′. At1g13620: RAV1-1, 5′-ATGGAATCGAGTAGCGTTGA-3′, and RAV1-2, 5′-CCGACGTTAACAACGTAA-3′. At1g27730: STZ-1, 5′-ATGGCGCTCGAGGCTCTTAC-3′, and STZ-2, 5′-TCCTTCGTAGTGGCACCGC-3′. Total RNA was prepared from MKK2-WT4 and MKK2-EE4-overexpressing lines and from Col-0 wild-type plants. Transcriptome analysis was performed using the GeneChip Arabidopsis ATH1 Genome Array from Affymetrix (Santa Clara, CA). This array contains probe sets representing approximately 24,000 Arabidopsis genes. Processing of the RNA samples, hybridization, washing, and scanning of the arrays as well as basic analysis was performed as described in CITATION. Signal intensities were normalized by setting target gene intensities (average signal intensity of chip) to 625. Expression signals lower than 125 (25% of target intensity) were floored to 125 to eliminate noise and the number of minor significant expression changes CITATION. Expression ratios were calculated comparing the signal intensities of the two analyzed lines to those of wild-type plants. The resulting data matrix was loaded in Cluster CITATION. Genes showing at least a 3-fold expression difference in one of the two expression ratios (MKK2-WT4/wild-type or MKK2-EE4/wild-type) were included in the final data set and subjected to hierarchical clustering as described in CITATION. The final clustergram was displayed using TreeView CITATION. Functional classification of the genes was done according to their annotation either in the MIPS (http://mips.gsf.de/proj/thal/db/index.html) or the TAIR database (http://www.Arabidopsis.org/).
