!~ABS~! The screening of the Versailles collection of Arabidopsis T-DNA transformants allowed us to identify several male gametophytic mutants, including poky pollen tube (pok). The pok mutant, which could only be isolated as a hemizygous line, exhibits very short pollen tubes, explaining the male-specific transmission defect observed in this line. We show that the POK gene is duplicated in the Arabidopsis genome and that the predicted POK protein sequence is highly conserved from lower to higher eukaryotes. The putative POK homolog in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), referred to as Vps52p/SAC2, has been shown to be located at the late Golgi and to function in a complex with other proteins, Vps53p, Vps54p, and Vps51p. This complex is involved in retrograde trafficking of vesicles between the early endosomal compartment and the trans-Golgi network. We present the expression patterns of the POK gene and its duplicate P2 in Arabidopsis, and of the putative Arabidopsis homologs of VPS53 and VPS54 of yeast. We show that a POK::GFP fusion protein localizes to Golgi in plant cells, supporting the possibility of a conserved function for Vps52p and POK proteins. These results, together with the expression pattern of the POK::GUS fusion and the lack of plants homozygous for the pok mutation, suggest a more general role for POK in polar growth beyond the pollen tube elongation process.
!~RES~! In order to define the pok phenotype in situ, aniline blue staining was performed after limited pollination of wild-type pistils with pollen grains, either from wild-type or from hemizygous pok plants. Sixteen hours after pollination, all wild-type pollen grains had germinated and completely elongated their pollen tubes, reaching the base of the ovary (Fig. 1a ). The number of pollen tubes counted in the style was similar to the number of pollen grains deposited (Fig. 1a, n = 7). On the contrary, pollen from pok plants produced both elongated and short pollen tubes (Fig. 1b, five pollen grains on stigma, three tubes in the ovary). When only one or two grains were deposited, we commonly observed short, poky pollen tubes 16 h after pollination, which are presumed to carry the T-DNA construct (Fig. 1c). This observation is consistent with a role for the POK gene in pollen tube growth in vivo. [[FIGURE]] Nonetheless, some pollen tubes were still able to elongate sufficiently to reach ovules located in the upper part of the ovary (Fig. 1c). This would explain the residual male gametophytic T-DNA transmission (0.46%) in the pok mutant line (CITATION, CITATION). Despite this residual transmission, numerous screens to isolate homozygous pok plants remained unsuccessful, suggesting that homozygous pok mutations lead to precocious lethality. Genomic regions flanking the single T-DNA construct inserted in the pok mutant line were cloned (CITATION) and sequenced, leading to the identification of a pair of duplicated genes located 4 kb apart on the bottom of chromosome I (Fig. 2a ): the POK gene, in which the T-DNA insertion occurred (At1g71270), and the P2 gene (At1g71300). [[FIGURE]] The POK and P2 genes (Fig. 2a) are composed of 20 and 19 exons, respectively (with an additional 5′ exon in POK). The exon-intron structure (Fig. 2a) is strictly conserved and exon sequences share 90% identity, whereas intron sequences are largely divergent and shorter in P2 than in POK. Pok hemizygous mutant plants were complemented with an 11.2-kb genomic clone overlapping the POK gene, but excluding P2. The complementation construct was linked to the hpt gene, whereas the pok T-DNA insertion was marked with the nptII gene, conferring hygromycin (H) and kanamycin (K) resistance, respectively, to the transformed plants. Among the progeny of infiltrated mutant plants, five plants were selected that, when selfed, showed 2:1 segregation for kanamycin resistance, instead of 1:1 observed in the pok mutant. Furthermore, these five plants showed 5:1 segregation for hygromycin resistance, as expected in the case of independent segregation of both T-DNA insertions. The self progeny of one of these potentially complemented plants was analyzed. Descendants homozygous for hygromycin resistance either were also homozygous for kanamycin resistance (H/H, K/K), or showed a 3:1 ratio of kanamycin-resistant to kanamycin-sensitive progeny (H/H, K/-). Crossing these latter plants as male in with wild type confirmed that T-DNA transmission was restored. Moreover, descendants that had lost the complementing construct (showing a fully hygromycin-sensitive progeny) showed 1:1 segregation for kanamycin resistance. Finally, when germinating pollen from a complemented descendant (K/-, H/H) in vitro, the same proportion of elongated pollen tubes (78%, out of 348 counted pollen grains) was obtained as for wild-type pollen (77% of elongated tubes, out of 340 pollen grains), showing phenotypic restoration for this plant. In the control hemizygous pok line, 45% of elongated pollen tubes were counted out of 325 pollen grains. To rule out potential lesions in the linked P2 gene, the P2 genomic region was completely sequenced in the pok mutant and no mutations were observed. Taken together, these data confirm that the T-DNA insertion in the POK gene alone is responsible for the observed tip growth defect in pok plants. Northern-blotting experiments using exon 10 of the POK gene as a probe (Fig. 2b) revealed a transcript of the expected size (2.2 kb) at every developmental stage tested and in almost all plant tissues. However, there was some variation in transcript abundance; very low levels of transcripts were detected in seeds, whole inflorescence, and mature flowers, while higher levels were observed in roots and flower buds less than 1 mm in size (i.e. before pollen mitosis [PM] I). Due to their strong identity, the POK and P2 transcripts could not be distinguished in hybridization experiments. However, oligonucleotides specific for each cDNA were designed (Fig. 2, c and d) and reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis was used to characterize the expression pattern of both transcripts independently. For the POK gene, RT-PCR results, although not quantitative, were qualitatively similar to those obtained by northern blotting, with the POK cDNA detected in all tissues, although at very low levels in seeds (Fig. 2e). For the P2 cDNA, no RT-PCR products were detected in any sample (Fig. 2f), even after two rounds of nested amplification (not shown). Taken together, the weak, or absent, expression of P2 versus POK and the presence of the POK cDNA in all RT-PCR samples argue that the northern-blot analysis shown in Figure 2b faithfully reflects POK mRNA distribution only. Pollen and root cDNA libraries were screened with a probe corresponding to the T-DNA insertion region and overlapping the predicted exon 10 of the POK gene. Two types of clones were obtained from the pollen cDNA library: a POK partial cDNA clone (1,793 nt long) and a P2 cDNA clone (2,096 nt long). The screening of the root cDNA library allowed the isolation of a longer POK cDNA clone (2,217 nt); however, no cDNA clone for the P2 gene was found. Putative initiator ATGs for both transcripts (NetStart prediction software: http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/NetStart/), located in exon 1 (Fig. 2a), predict a total length for POK and P2 coding sequences of 2,088 and 2,106 nt, respectively. 5′RACE experiments using POK-specific primers indicated a 5′UTR of 156 to 158 nt, located 31 to 33 nt upstream of the 5′ terminus of the root cDNA. The POK and P2 predicted proteins are 696 and 702 amino acids, respectively, with a predicted molecular mass of approximately 80 kD. Both proteins share 88% identity and 93% similarity. According to BLAST software, POK shows 23% identity and 43% similarity with the yeast SAC2/Vps52p protein (CITATION; CITATION). Predicted homologous proteins are also found in other species, such as Homo sapiens, Drosophila melanogaster, and Caenorhabditis elegans, with 23% to 35% identity and 43% to 59% similarity over the entire sequences (Fig. 3 ). Although some amino acids appear well conserved among the different species (Fig. 3), no particular structure, signal peptide, or known motifs are predicted in the POK sequence. [[FIGURE]] CITATION showed that the yeast Vps52p protein functions in complex with two other proteins called Vps53p and Vps54p. We therefore searched for Arabidopsis genes encoding potential homologs of Vps53p and Vps54p. Performing BLAST analysis, we identified two candidate genes that we called AtVps53 and AtVps54 (At1g50500 and At4g19490, respectively). The corresponding predicted proteins share, respectively, 19% and 22% identity and 38% and 44% similarity with their yeast counterparts. AtVps53 and AtVps54 cDNA clones were isolated from the pollen cDNA library. They are both 2.7 kb long and contain 24 and 18 exons, respectively (Fig. 4, a and d ). The predicted proteins contain 829 and 1,001 amino acids, respectively, compared to 822 and 889 amino acids for Vps53p and Vps54p. A predicted translation start for the AtVps53 transcript is located in the middle of exon 2 (Fig. 4a, black arrow). For AtVps54, GENSCAN software (Chris Burge, Stanford University) predicts a long exon 1 (Fig. 4d, gray arrow), but RT-PCR experiments did not allow amplification of this region (not shown). The first in frame ATG of the isolated AtVps54 pollen cDNA is located at the end of exon 1 (Fig. 4d, black arrow), which would give rise to a 784-amino acid protein. [[FIGURE]] Expression of these two vps-like genes was studied by northern-blot analysis (Fig. 4, b, c, e, and f). As observed for POK, both AtVps53 and AtVps54 are ubiquitously expressed. Their basal expression level is low, although higher for AtVps53 compared to AtVps54 in all vegetative tissues (Fig. 4, b and e), and higher for AtVps54 in roots versus other tissues (Fig. 4e). In reproductive tissues, both transcripts are more abundant in buds less than 1 mm in size compared with later stages (Fig. 4, c and f). Since an active translational fusion between the first 10 exons of the POK gene and the uidA gene carried by the T-DNA occurred in the pok mutant, GUS staining allowed us to determine a preliminary expression pattern for the POK protein. In 8- to 10-d-old plantlets, strong blue staining was detected in the root apex (Fig. 5a ), with enhanced intensity in the elongation zone (Fig. 5b), in emerging lateral root primordia (Fig. 5c), in very young leaves (Fig. 5d), and sometimes in stipules (Fig. 5a). [[FIGURE]] In reproductive tissues, GUS staining was observed at different stages of floral development (Fig. 5, e–j). Blue coloration was detected from the earliest stages of flower development, before meiosis and gametogenesis (bud size, 0.1 mm; Fig. 5e), and maintained later (Fig. 5, f–j). As flower bud size reached 1.6 to 1.7 mm (i.e. after PMII), expression of the fusion protein became strictly gametophytic in the male reproductive tissues, whereas it was clearly sporophytic in the female tissues, since all ovules were stained (Fig. 5h). At maturity, half of the pollen grains within the anthers were blue (Fig. 5j), as expected for hemizygous plants. At later postpollination stages, all developing seeds were stained (Fig. 5i). However, no blue staining was observed in the pistil below the stigma surface (Fig. 5i), compared to a control line (T-DNA insertion line; A. Guyon, A. Lécureuil, P. Guerche, and S. Bonhomme, unpublished data) expressing GUS in pollen and for which a blue coloration was observed in the style, corresponding to elongated pollen tubes (Fig. 5k; note that developing seeds are not stained). The absence of staining in the style of the pok mutant could be the result of lower GUS expression in this line compared to our control line, as well as of lack of effective pok pollen tube growth. The subcellular localization of the POK protein was investigated using a POK::GFP fusion construct containing the complete open reading frame of the POK gene fused with the GFP coding sequence. Both cDNAs were cloned downstream of 2.2 kb of the predicted POK promoter region. Onion (Allium sativum) epidermal cells were bombarded with this POK::GFP construct. The collected signal exhibited a cytoplasmic dispersed punctate pattern (Fig. 6a ) characteristic of the previously described Golgi distribution pattern in plant cells (CITATION; CITATION). Onion cells were also cobombarded with both the POK::GFP construct and a ST::DsRed construct (provided by F. Brandizzi, Oxford Brookes University, Oxford, UK; CITATION), where the signal anchor sequence of the rat α-2,6-sialyltransferase gene was used as a late Golgi marker. Both GFP (Fig. 6c) and DsRed (Fig. 6b) signals exhibited a very similar distribution within the cell. The overlay and coincidence of both signals (Fig. 6d) strongly suggests that the POK::GFP fusion protein localizes to Golgi in onion epidermal cells. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The T-DNA transmission defect lines of Arabidopsis (L.) Heynh. ecotype Wassilewskija were isolated from the Versailles collection of T-DNA insertion mutants as described in CITATION. In vitro growth of pollen tubes was tested as described in CITATION. In situ pollination and aniline blue staining were performed as described in CITATION. Histochemical GUS assays were performed as described in CITATION, except that K3Fe(CN)6 and K4Fe(CN)6 concentrations were increased to 2 mm for staining reproductive tissues. A XbaI/SalI 11.2-kb fragment corresponding to the POK gene was subcloned from a genomic phage clone (CITATION) and inserted into a binary vector (pZP P200; CITATION) bearing the hpt gene. The hemizygous pok line was transformed by floral dipping in an Agrobacterium solution as described by CITATION. Transformants were selected in vitro on hygromycin-containing medium (30 mg/L). The pollen cDNA library was constructed from poly(A+) RNA isolated from mature pollen of Arabidopsis ecotype Landsberg erecta. Mature pollen was isolated as described previously (CITATION). Poly(A+) RNA was isolated directly from isolated pollen after grinding pollen in liquid nitrogen using a pestle and mortar and using the Dynabeads mRNADIRECT mRNA kit (Dynal Biotech, Oslo) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Pollen cDNA was primed with oligo(dT) and cloned into the EcoRI/XhoI sites of the lambda HybriZAP vector (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). Root cDNA library was cloned into lambda gt10 (kind gift from M. Salanoubat). Both cDNA libraries were screened with a probe corresponding to exon 10 of the POK gene, with probes corresponding to exons 10 and 22 for the AtVps53 gene and with exons 11 and 15 for the AtVps54 gene. Seed RNA was extracted following CITATION. RNA from other plant tissues was isolated as described in CITATION. Northern blots were performed on 20 μg of total RNA as described in CITATION. cDNA synthesis was performed with Superscript RT (Life Technologies, Carlsbad, CA) from total RNA (3 μg) treated with DNAse I, following the manufacturer's protocol. cDNAs were amplified with 27 cycles of PCR. Primers used were: POK gene, POK-1 (5′-GGTGTTAAGTGCACATTTTCGTG-3′) and POK-2 (5′-TCACCAAAGAAATCATCACAAAA-3′); P2 gene, P2-1 (5′-TGCTAAGTGCACATTTTCAGT-3′) and P2-2 (5′-TCACCAAAGAAATCATCACAAAA-3′); AtVps53 gene, 53 to 1 (5′-AAAATCAGAAAATACATGGGAC-3′) and 53 to 2 (5′-TCAAGAAATATGCCGTGAC-3′); and AtVps54 gene, 54 to 1 (5′-ATGCGTATCTCCATACATGA-3′) and 54 to 2 (5′-AAAAATCAGATTCGAGCGAT-3′). 5′ RACE experiments were performed using a Life Technologies system on roots and flower bud RNA. Successively used primers were specific for exon 5 (5′-GTCTGAACTTATAGAACCAATC-3′), the end of exon 4 (5′-CTGAAATCCACTGAGAAGAGT-3′), and the beginning of exon 4 (5′-GTCACTTTCCTTTATGTAATCC-3′). RACE products were cloned into pGEM-T (Promega, Madison, WI). The POK promoter region (2.2 kb) was amplified from Wassilewskija DNA using the primers 5′-TTTCTAGACGGCAGAGCTTCAGT-3′ and 5′-TCCCCCATGGTTTGGCCCTA-3′. The resulting fragment was cloned and sequenced into the pCR2.1-TOPO vector (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). In parallel, the POK cDNA was amplified using the primers 5′-CTAATGGCGGACTCAAACTGATT-3′ and 5′-GCTACCATGGCGAAAGTCTTGGAGTATTTCCT-3′, allowing replacement of the stop codon by an NcoI restriction site at the 3′ end. The resulting PCR product was cloned and sequenced in the pCRBluntII-TOPO (Invitrogen). An XbaI/BglII promoter fragment and a BglII/NcoI cDNA fragment were isolated from the constructs described above and cloned together into the pTrc99A vector (CITATION), where the promoter-cDNA junctions were verified. The resulting XbaI/NcoI fragment was cloned into pCambia1302 vector (CAMBIA GPO, Canberra, Australia) to produce the POK::GFP translational fusion. As described by CITATION, 7 μg of each construct were used to transform onion (Allium sativum) cells. Bombardments were performed with a PDS-1000/HE Biolistic Particle Delivery System (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA), using 900-psi rupture discs (Bio-Rad). Transformed epidermal cells were observed using a LEICA TCS-NT confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica Mycrosystems, Wetzlar, Germany) with an argon/krypton laser (Omnichrome). GFP signal was collected with an FITC filter set (BP520/30) at 488 nm. DsRed was excited at 568 nm with a BP600/30 filter set. Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession numbers bankit481797 (POK), bankit481801 (P2), AAB64912, AAH32108, AAF52254, and AAA68727.
