!~ABS~! Transcription repression plays important roles in preventing crucial regulatory proteins from being expressed in inappropriate temporal or spatial domains. LEUNIG (LUG) and SEUSS (SEU) normally act to prevent ectopic expression of the floral homeotic gene AGAMOUS in flowers. LUG encodes a protein with sequence similarities to the yeast Tup1 corepressor. SEU encodes a plant-specific regulatory protein with sequence similarity in a conserved dimerization domain to the LIM-domain binding 1/Chip proteins in mouse and Drosophila. Despite the molecular isolation of LUG and SEU, the biochemical function of these two proteins remains uncharacterized, and the mechanism of AGAMOUS repression remains unknown. Here, we report that LUG and SEU interact directly in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, LUG exhibits a strong repressor activity on several heterologous promoters in yeast and plant cells. SEU, in contrast, does not exhibit any direct repressor activity, but can repress reporter gene expression only in the presence of LUG, indicating a possible role of SEU as an adaptor protein for LUG. Our results demonstrate that LUG encodes a functional homologue of Tup1 and that SEU may function similarly to Ssn6, an adaptor protein of Tup1. We have defined the LUG/LUH, Flo8, single-strand DNA-binding protein domain of LUG as both necessary and sufficient for the interaction with SEU and two domains of LUG as important for its repressor function. Our work provides functional insights into plant transcriptional corepressors and reveals both conservation and distinctions between plant corepressors and those of yeast and animals.
!~RES~!  The LUFS Domain of LUG Is Sufficient for Interaction with SEU. To illuminate the molecular basis underlying the synergistic genetic interactions between seu and lug, a yeast two-hybrid assay was used to test whether SEU could physically interact with LUG. The LUG protein can be divided into three domains: the N-terminal LUFS domain, the central Q-rich domain, and the C-terminal 7-WD repeat domain. Full-length LUG, LUFS, LUFS+Q, and Q+WD were each fused to the DNA-binding domain of GAL4 (GAL4BD) and were tested for interaction with full-length SEU which was fused to the activation domain of GAL4 (GAL4AD). Whereas full-length LUG, LUFS, and LUFS+Q interacted with full-length SEU, Q+WD failed to interact with SEU (FIG-REF). This finding suggested that the LUFS domain is both necessary and sufficient for interacting with SEU. Interestingly, the strongest interaction was observed between the LUFS and SEU (FIG-REF, lane 4). Two alternative explanations could account for the difference in interaction strength between LUFS alone and other interacting LUG truncations. First, any repressor activity conferred by the full-length LUG-BD or LUFS+Q-BD may antagonize the activation capability of SEU-AD. Alternatively, the LUG-BD or LUFS+Q-BD may interfere with or partially block the accessibility of LUFS by SEU. [[FIGURE]] To establish whether the two-hybrid interactions between LUG and SEU represented a direct physical contact in vitro, we carried out GST affinity chromatography. Immobilized GSTSEU was incubated with MBP, MBP-LUFS, and MBPLUFS+Q. In agreement with the two-hybrid data, GST-SEU (but not GST alone) interacted specifically with MBP-LUFS and MBP-LUFS+Q (FIG-REF), demonstrating a direct protein-protein interaction between LUG and SEU. [[FIGURE]] To define the domain(s) within SEU responsible for the interaction with LUG, similar two-hybrid analyses were performed with various SEU truncations. Full-length SEU as well as several SEU truncations were able to self-activate reporter lacZ expression when they were fused to the GAL4BD (FIG-REF). Hence, SEU truncations were all cloned as AD fusions. Only full-length SEU was found to interact efficiently with LUG-BD (FIG-REF, lane 7), although a very weak interaction was detected with a truncated SEU lacking the N-terminal region (FIG-REF, lane 4). These results suggest that the entire SEU protein is needed for the interaction with LUG. It is possible that multiple regions of SEU are required to maintain proper protein conformation needed for the interaction with LUG.  LUG Possesses Repressor Activities. Based on genetic and structural data, we predicted that LUG would function as a transcription repressor. By using an in vivo yeast transcription repression assay, we tested the ability of LUG or SEU to repress transcription. Full-length LUG cDNA and four truncated LUG derivatives were fused in-frame and downstream of the bacterial LexA DNA-binding domain and tested for their ability to repress lacZ expression (FIG-REF). When directly recruited to the test promoter, LexA-LUG reduced reporter gene expression by 45% compared with LexA alone, demonstrating that LUG has a repressor activity, and suggesting that LUG can repress transcription through a conserved eukaryotic repression mechanism. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the observed repression activity could be attributed to specific domains within the LUG protein, truncated LUG derivatives were assayed. Two distinct domains were found to have repression function. The LUFS+Q repressed transcription to the same extent as full-length LUG (FIG-REF), whereas the Q+WD repressed transcription to a lesser but significant extent. This repression function cannot be attributed solely to the Q-rich domain because the Q-rich domain alone cannot repress transcription. To test whether LUG could function as a transcription repressor in planta, a transient Arabidopsis protoplast repression assay using the 2XUAS GAL4 -tCUP::GUS reporter (CITATION) was adopted. A 2XUAS GAL4 element is located immediately upstream of the tCUP, a constitutive tobacco promoter, driving the GUS reporter gene. Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts were transfected with 35S::LUG-BD or 35S::SEU-BD together with the reporter, and the effects on GUS expression were quantified (FIG-REF). Whereas SEU-BD did not show any effect on the level of GUS expression, LUG-BD significantly reduced the GUS expression level in a concentration-dependent manner. Specifically, doubling the amount of LUG-BD plasmid DNA used in the transfection resulted in an additional 3-fold reduction of GUS reporter activity (FIG-REF). The reduced GUS activity is unlikely due to simple steric interference of the transcription machinery by increased LUG-BD at the promoter region because a similar increase in SEU-BD DNA did not result in any decrease in GUS expression (FIG-REF). Clearly, LUG functions as a strong repressor of transcription in planta and can repress transcription more efficiently in a homologous system than the heterologous yeast system.  LUG Is Required by SEU to Repress Transcription in Yeast and in Planta. In contrast to LUG, the protein sequence of SEU provided scant clues as to the biochemical function of SEU. SEU was unable to repress transcription when fused to the LexA in yeast repression assays (FIG-REF). However, when LUG was overexpressed together with LexA-SEU, a similar level of repression to LexALUG was observed (FIG-REF), indicating a functional molecular interaction between these two proteins. [[FIGURE]] What then is the biological significance of the SEU-LUG interaction? One possibility as suggested by the above yeast repression assay is that SEU may serve as an adaptor protein facilitating the interaction between LUG and DNA-binding transcription factors just as the yeast corepressor Ssn6 and the mouse and Drosophila Ldb1/Chip proteins. To assess this possibility in planta, Arabidopsis protoplasts were cotransfected with a reporter and 35S::SEU-BD in the absence or presence of 35S::LUG (or various 35S::LUG truncations; FIG-REF). The reporter, 2XUAS GAL4 -35S::LUC, contains the luciferase (LUC) gene under the control of a constitutive 35S promoter with 2XUAS GAL4 located immediately upstream of the 35S promoter. The use of 35S::SEU-BD alone had no effect on the reporter gene expression (FIG-REF, lane 2). However, cotransfecting 35S::LUG and 35S::SEU-BD together significantly reduced reporter gene expression (FIG-REF, lane 8). This repression appears dependent on direct physical interactions between SEU-BD and LUG as cotransfection with 35S::SEU-BD and 35S::Q+WD failed to reduce reporter gene expression (FIG-REF, lane 3) due to the inability of Q+WD to interact with SEU-BD. In addition, whereas 35S::SEU-BD combined with 35S::LUFS failed to repress reporter expression (FIG-REF, lane 4), cotransfection of 35S::SEU-BD and 35S::LUFS+Q provided a significant repressor activity (FIG-REF, lane 6), supporting the earlier observations made in yeast (FIG-REF) that the LUFS+Q derivative exhibited a strong repressor activity but LUFS or Q-rich domain alone did not. These results not only indicated a role of SEU as an adaptor protein for LUG but also supported a direct physical interaction between LUG and SEU occurring in plant cells. Toward understanding the mechanism underlying the repressor activity of LUG, we tested whether TSA, an inhibitor of histone deacetylases (HDACs), could reduce or abolish the repressor activity of LUG. The addition of 20 μM TSA completely eliminated the repressor activity of LUG or LUFS+Q (FIG-REF, lanes 7 and 9). However, 20 μM TSA did not affect reporter gene expression with 35S::SEU-BD plus 35S::LUFS (FIG-REF, lane 5). Together, these results suggest that HDACs are required for the repressor activity of LUG.  LUG Localizes to the Nucleus Independent of SEU. In addition to being an adaptor protein, another possible role of SEU could be that SEU is required for the cytoplasm to nucleus translocation of LUG, as Ldb1/Chip has been shown to be required for the cytoplasm to nucleus translocation of Ssdp (CITATION). SEU protein has a typical bipartite nuclear localization signal (NLS) within the conserved dimerization domain (CITATION), whereas LUG has an atypical NLS located in the Q-rich domain (CITATION). The 35S::LUG-GFP was previously shown to localize in the nucleus of onion epidermal cells (CITATION), but this result could depend on the activity of SEU-like proteins present in the onion cells. To investigate whether the SEU-LUG interaction is necessary for the nuclear localization of LUG, a truncated LUG (LUFS domain deleted) was fused to GFP. This deltaLUFSLUG-GFP protein was able to localize to the nucleus of onion epidermal cells (FIG-REF), suggesting that the LUG-SEU interaction was not required for the nuclear localization of LUG. Taken together, our results indicate that SEU functions primarily as an adaptor protein for LUG in this plant corepressor complex. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~!  Plasmid Construction. The procedures of plasmid construction for the yeast two-hybrid assays, yeast repression assays, plant repression assays, and maltose-binding protein (MBP)- or GST-tagged proteins are described in Supporting Methods, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site. Primer sequences and primer pair combinations are listed in Tables 1 and 2, which are published as supporting information on the PNAS web site.  Yeast Two-Hybrid Assays. Yeast strain PJ69-4A (MAT a trp1-901 leu2-3,12 ura3-52 his3-200 gal4Δ gal80Δ GAL2-ADE2 LYS2::GAL1-HIS3 met2::GAL7-lacZ) harbors three reporters HIS3, ADE2, and lacZ, each under the control of a different GAL4-responsive promoter (CITATION). BD-bait and AD-prey plasmids were cotransformed into PJ69-4A according to the protocol described in www.umanitoba.ca/faculties/medicine/biochem/gietz/2HS.html, and were plated on selection medium before being incubated at 30°C for 3 days. Primary transformants were subsequently streaked onto plates selective for the reporter gene(s): -histidine (+3 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole) and -adenine plates. White colonies grown on the selection plates were assayed for the β-galactosidase (β-gal) activities. For β-gal liquid assays, transformants were inoculated into selective liquid media and grown at 30°C until the OD600 reached ≈1. Samples were analyzed in triplicate by using the Galacto Light Plus kit (Applied Biosystems) and the TD-20/20 luminometer (Turner Designs, Sunnyvale, CA) according to the manufacturer's instructions.  Yeast Repression Assays. FT5::LG312Δ S and FT5::JK1621 yeast strains contain integrated lacZ reporter genes with or without four LexA operator sites upstream of the CYC1 promoter, respectively (CITATION). Yeast cells were transformed with either LexA-LUG (or LUG derivatives), LexA-SEU, or LexASEU+LUG. After overnight growth in liquid medium to an early log phase, cells were harvested and assayed for β-gal activity. Values were normalized to OD600.  Repression Assays in Plant Cells. Isolation and transfection of Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts was as described, and can be accessed at http://genetics.mgh.harvard.edu/sheenweb/protocols_reg.html. In cotransfection assays, 10 μg of reporter, 10 or 20 μg of effector constructs, and 0.1 μg of control plasmid 35S::LUC or 35S::RenillaLUC were used for each transfection. The total amount of DNA for each transfection remained constant (40 μg) by adding the appropriate amount of vector pART7 DNA that contains the 35S promoter and 3′ Ocs site (CITATION). In cases where trichostatin-A (TSA) was used, the protoplasts were first transfected with DNA for 12 h, and then 20 μM TSA was added to the transfection reaction for an additional 12 h before the reporter assay. Luciferase assays were performed with the Promega dual-luciferase reporter assay system and the TD-20/20 luminometer. The fluorometric β-glucuronidase (GUS) assay was performed with the substrate MUG as described (CITATION), and fluorescence was measured by using a Picofluor fluorometer (Turner Designs).  In Vitro Pulldown. The procedures for the purification of MBP- and GST-fusion proteins are described in Supporting Methods. Five micrograms of GST-SEU immobilized on the glutathione resin was mixed with 5 μg of MBP-fusion proteins and was incubated overnight at 4°C in 100 μl of binding buffer (50 mM KH2PO4, pH 7.5/50 mM NaCl/50 mM KCl/5 mM MgCl2/0.2% Triton X-100/1% BSA). Samples were washed five times in PBS buffer before being resuspended in 1× NuPage LDS sample buffer (Invitrogen), boiled, and then separated by 4-12% NuPage gel (Invitrogen). The retention of MBP-fusion proteins by GST-SEU was detected by Western blots with anti-MBP antibody (NEB, Beverly, MA).
