!~ABS~! Coimmunoprecipitation of members of the phytochrome red/farred photoreceptor family from plant extracts has been used to analyze their heteromeric binding interactions. Phytochrome (phy)B or phyD apoproteins with six myc epitopes fused to their N termini are biologically active when expressed in Arabidopsis. Immunoprecipitation of either of these tagged proteins from seedling extracts coprecipitates additional type II phytochromes: six myc (myc6)-phyB coprecipitates phyC-phyE; and myc6-phyD coprecipitates phyB and phyE. No interaction of the epitope-tagged proteins with type I phyA was detected. Gel filtration chromatography shows that all five of the Arabidopsis phytochromes are present in seedlings as dimers, and that the heteromeric type II phytochrome complexes migrate at molecular masses characteristic of heterodimers. Similar levels of heterodimer formation are observed in extracts of dark-grown seedlings, where the phytochromes are cytosolic, and light-grown seedlings, where they are predominantly nuclear. These findings indicate that Arabidopsis, which until now has been thought to contain five homodimeric forms of phytochrome, in fact contains multiple species of both homodimeric and heterodimeric phytochromes. The conservation of the phytochrome family throughout angiosperms suggests that heterodimeric red/far-red receptors may be present in many flowering plants.
!~RES~!  myc6 Epitope-Tagged phyB and phyD Are Biologically Active. As shown in FIG-REF, transgenes were constructed consisting of either an N-terminal fusion of six myc epitopes (myc6) to the phyB coding sequence driven by the PHYB promoter region (mycPHYB) or an N-terminal (myc6)-tagged phyD coding sequence driven by the 35S promoter (myc-PHYD overexpressor, or mycDOE). The mycPHYB gene was transformed into a phyB-1-null mutant background, and the hypocotyl growth response of the phyB(mycPHYB) line under R light was compared to that of WT and the untransformed phyB mutant. FIG-REF shows that the mycPHYB gene fully complements the mutant R hypocotyl elongation phenotype, indicating that it has similar activity to nontagged PHYB. The mycPHYB transgene also complements the elongated rosette leaf morphology and early flowering phyB mutant phenotypes (data not shown). The mycDOE gene was transformed into both the WT and phyB mutant backgrounds. It has been shown that a nontagged DOE transgene in a WT background causes low-level overexpression of phyD and a mild hypersensitivity of hypocotyl growth inhibition under R (CITATION). FIG-REF illustrates this and also shows that the DOE transgene in a phyB mutant background results in partial complementation of the phyB long-hypocotyl phenotype under R. In both the WT and phyB backgrounds, expression of the mycDOE transgene also causes a reduction in hypocotyl length under R relative to untransformed controls but results in a weaker R hypersensitivity than the DOE gene (FIG-REF). Hence, although myc6-phyB is equivalent to native phyB in its biological activity, the addition of the epitope tags to phyD appears to have impaired its activity to some extent.  Type II Phytochromes Show Heteromeric Binding Interactions in Vivo. mAbs specific for each of the five Arabidopsis phytochrome apoproteins (phyA-phyE) have been described (CITATION). The WT, phyB, and phyB(mycPHYB) lines were grown under continuous white light or in darkness for 7 days, protein extracts were prepared from the seedlings, and IP was performed with the anti-myc 9E10 mAb. The upper part of FIG-REF shows that, as expected, the 9E10 mAb precipitates the 138-kDa myc6-phyB protein from a phyB(myc-PHYB) extract but not from extracts of the untransformed lines. The myc6-phyB antigen is also recognized by anti-phyB mAb B6B3. The lower part of FIG-REF shows that the 120- to 125-kDa phyC-phyE are coprecipitated with myc6-phyB in these samples. No evidence of nonspecific precipitation of these endogenous phytochromes from the WT or phyB extracts by the 9E10 mAb or from the phyB(mycPHYB) extract by nonimmune mouse IgG is observed (FIG-REF). In contrast to phyC-phyE, phyA, which is present at 10- to 60-fold higher concentration than any of the other phytochromes in dark-grown seedlings (CITATION), does not coprecipitate with myc6-phyB (FIG-REF). No difference in the coimmunoprecipitation pattern of the phyC-phyE phytochromes with myc6-phyB is seen between extracts of light- and dark-grown seedlings (FIG-REF). These data suggest that stable binding interactions occur between phyB and other type II phytochromes but not between phyB and type I phyA, and that these interactions occur irrespective of whether the molecules are cytosolic, in dark-grown cells, or nuclear, in light-grown cells (CITATION, CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether these heteromeric phytochrome interactions can be detected when a different type II apoprotein is pulled down, extracts of light-grown seedlings of the WT(myc-DOE) and phyB(mycDOE) lines and the corresponding non-tagged control overexpressor lines were immunoprecipitated with the anti-myc 9E10 mAb. FIG-REF shows that, when the myc6-phyD protein is pulled down from the mycDOE extracts, endogenous native phyD is coprecipitated, as expected if phyD forms homodimers. In addition, endogenous phyB and phyE, but not phyC, are present in the IP pellets from the mycDOE extracts (FIG-REF). The presence or absence of phyB, in the WT(myc-DOE) and phyB(mycDOE) lines, respectively, does not significantly alter the coprecipitation characteristics of phyC or phyE with myc6-phyD (FIG-REF). These data confirm the occurrence of binding interactions among phyB, phyD, and phyE and suggest that these three proteins interact in all possible heteromeric combinations among themselves. Similar results to those shown in FIG-REF were obtained when dark-grown WT(mycDOE) seedlings were used in IP experiments, and no evidence for any coprecipitation of phyA with myc6-phyD was obtained (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Whereas phyC binds to myc6-phyB (FIG-REF), it does not have a strong affinity for myc6-phyD (FIG-REF). Very long exposures of phyC blots of the proteins immunoprecipitated by mAb 9E10 from WT(mycDOE) or phyB(mycDOE) extracts indicate that a small amount of phyC is present in those pellets. Therefore, phyC may bind to phyD with low affinity. To compare the relative binding of phyC to myc6-phyB and myc6-phyD, an IP experiment was performed with a phyB(mycPHYB) line and a WT(mycDOE) line that express similar levels of their epitope-tagged transgene products. FIG-REF shows that, in dark-grown seedlings, 20-fold more phyC is coimmunoprecipitated with myc6-phyB than with an equivalent amount of myc6-phyD. This suggests that there may be a high degree of selectivity to the type II phytochrome interactions. However, because the myc6-phyD protein shows a somewhat reduced biological activity compared to nontagged phyD (FIG-REF), it is possible its affinity for phyC has been affected by the N-terminal myc6 tag and that native phyD in fact interacts with phyC more strongly than this. To demonstrate that the phytochrome-binding interactions detected in Figs. FIG-REF and FIG-REF occur in planta, before grinding of the tissue and preparation of the extracts, a tissue-mixing experiment was performed. Seedlings of WT(mycDOE) and phyB- (DOE) and of WT(DOE) and phyB(mycDOE) were mixed before grinding. The mixed-seedling extracts were precipitated with the 9E10 mAb and tested for coprecipitation of phyB, provided by the WT background only, with the myc6-phyD protein, provided by the line containing the mycDOE transgene. FIG-REF shows that phyB is coprecipitated with myc6-phyD only if they are present together in the seedling before extraction. [[FIGURE]]  Type II Phytochrome Interactions Represent Heterodimer Formation. Purified native oat phyA has been shown to be a homodimer (CITATION, CITATION). Overexpressed Arabidopsis phyB also forms homodimeric products in vivo (CITATION). Whether phyC-phyE are also dimers and whether homomeric combinations of these phytochromes occur have not been addressed. The interactions among the type II phytochromes detected in Figs. FIG-REF, FIG-REF, FIG-REF could take place as formation of heterodimers (such as phyB/C, phyB/D, phyB/E, etc.) or as higher-order dimer-dimer complexes (such as phyB/B binding to phyD/D). Alternatively, completely novel multimeric combinations of the phyB-phyE apoproteins might occur. To distinguish among these possibilities, extracts of dark-grown WT and phyB- (mycPHYB) seedlings were fractionated by SEC, and the migration of the five phytochromes relative to molecular weight standards was monitored by performing immunoblots on column fractions. FIG-REF shows profiles from scanned immunoblots of column fractions probed with the five phytochrome-specific mAbs. All five native Arabidopsis phytochromes migrate at masses in the range of 300-380 kDa. This corresponds well with the migration of purified oat phyA on SEC, in which an extended structure for the dimer of calculated mass of 250 kDa was found to give an apparent mass of 350-360 kDa on SEC (CITATION, CITATION). Hence, all five of the Arabidopsis phytochromes are present in dark-grown tissue extracts predominantly as dimers. No evidence for the presence of higher molecular weight complexes containing phytochrome was observed on these blots. To test for the presence of heterodimers in these fractions, an extract of seedlings of the phyB(mycPHYB) line was fractionated by SEC. Column profiles nearly identical to those of the WT were obtained (data not shown). Fractions from throughout the dimer peak were immunoprecipitated with mAb 9E10, and the precipitated proteins were characterized on immunoblots (FIG-REF). A small amount of degradation of the myc6-phyB protein apparently occurred during fractionation, probably due to removal of the myc tags from the N terminus, resulting in a phyB-reactive band at approximately the position of native phyB. This was seen repeatedly in independent experiments. Nevertheless, in these column fractions, phyC-phyE coimmunoprecipitate with myc6-phyB (FIG-REF). Once again, no evidence of binding of phyA to myc6-phyB was observed (data not shown). These results demonstrate that the heteromeric phyB/C, phyB/D, and phyB/E complexes migrate in SEC at molecular masses characteristic of dimers. Therefore, the binding interactions between phyB and the other type II apoproteins very likely result in the formation of phytochrome heterodimers. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~!  Plant Materials and Growth Conditions. Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Nossen (No-0) was used throughout. Extracts for immunoprecipitation (IP) were prepared from seedlings grown on agar medium for 7 days under continuous white light or for 5 days in the dark, as described (CITATION). For hypocotyl length measurements, seedlings were grown on agar medium containing 0.3% sucrose for 5 days under R light as described (CITATION). Hypocotyl lengths of 20-30 seedlings per line were measured under a dissecting microscope. Transformations were performed either by root transformation (CITATION) or by the floral dip method (CITATION).  Construction of Epitope-Tagged Transgenes. The coding sequences for six myc (myc6) epitopes (EQKLISEEDL) were multimerized and fused in-frame to the 5′ end of the PHYB cDNA sequence (CITATION) (see Fig. 7, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). The myc6-PHYB coding sequence was cloned in front of the PHYB promoter in the pBI-PB (NdeI) vector (CITATION) to generate the mycPHYB gene (FIG-REF), and this was transformed into the No-0 phyB-1 host. The WT phyD overexpressor line, designated WT(DOE), is the 35S-phyD no. 2 line described previously (CITATION). The phyB-1 mutant phyD overexpressor line, designated phyB(DOE), was constructed by transforming the 35S-phyD expression vector (CITATION) into the No-0 phyB-1 host. The myc6-PHYD coding sequence was constructed by fusing the sequence coding for the myc6 tag from plasmid pCS2+MT (CITATION) to the 5′ end of the PHYD cDNA sequence (see Fig. 8, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). This sequence was placed under the control of the 35S promoter in the vector pBI123 (CITATION) to produce the mycDOE gene (FIG-REF). WT(mycDOE) and phyB(mycDOE) lines were produced by transforming this gene into No-0 WT and No-0 phyB-1 hosts. [[FIGURE]]  Protein Extraction, IP, and Immunoblot Analysis. Fresh dark- or light-grown seedlings were ground in an ice-cold mortar and pestle in 50 mM Tris (pH 8)/150 mM NaCl/0.1% octylphenoxypolyethoxyethanol CA-630 with complete EDTA-free protease inhibitor mixture (Roche Diagnostics) at tissue weight/buffer volume ratios of 1:1 for dark- and 1:2 for light-grown seedlings. Extracts were centrifuged for 5 min at 12,000 × g in a micro-centrifuge at 4°C, and the supernatants were used directly in IP reactions. One-milliliter aliquots of extracts were precleared by the addition of 20 μl of protein A-agarose beads (Santa Cruz Biotechnology), incubation for 30 min on ice, and centrifugation at 5,000 × g for 5 min. Fifty microliters of tissue culture supernatant of the anti-myc monoclonal line 9E10 (gift of Seth Pincus, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge) or 1 μg of normal mouse IgG (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) was added to the precleared extract, and the mixture was incubated for 30 min on ice. Twenty microliters of protein A-agarose beads was added, the mixture was incubated on ice with occasional mixing for 1 h, and the beads were pelleted by centrifugation at 5,000 × g for 30 sec at 4°C. The beads were washed four times in 500 μl of extraction buffer. Proteins bound to the beads were eluted by heating at 95°C for 5 min in 2× SDS sample buffer and pelleting the beads. The eluted proteins were analyzed by fractionation on 6% SDS/PAGE, blotting to nitrocellulose and probing with mAbs (CITATION). mAbs were anti-myc 9E10, anti-phyA 073d, anti-phyB B6B3, anti-phyC C11 and C13, anti-phyD 2C1, anti-phyE 7B3, and the universal anti-phy mAb 3B5 (CITATION).  Size-Exclusion Chromatography (SEC). Protein extracts of dark-grown WT or phyB(mycPHYB) seedlings were prepared as above, and 0.5-ml samples containing ≈500 μg of total soluble protein were applied to a Superose 6 (Pharmacia) gel filtration column (25-ml bed volume). The column was eluted with the extraction buffer at 4°C at a rate of 0.5 ml/min, and 1-ml fractions were collected. IP and immunoblot analysis of column fractions were performed as described above. The column was calibrated with protein molecular weight standards (Pharmacia), and immunoblots were scanned and analyzed on an Alphaimager 2200 scanner by using alphaeasefc software (Alpha Innotech, San Leandro, CA).
