!~ABS~! Organization of proteins into complexes is crucial for many cellular functions. However, most proteomic approaches primarily detect protein interactions for soluble proteins but are less suitable for membrane-associated complexes. Here we describe a mating-based split ubiquitin system (mbSUS) for systematic identification of interactions between membrane proteins as well as between membrane and soluble proteins. mbSUS allows in vivo cloning of PCR products into a vector set, detection of interactions via mating, regulated expression of baits, and improved selection of interacting proteins. Cloning is simplified by introduction of λ attachment sites for GATEWAY. Homo- and heteromeric interactions between Arabidopsis K+ channels KAT1, AKT1, and AKT2 were identified. Tests with deletion mutants demonstrate that the C terminus of KAT1 and AKT1 is necessary for physical assembly of complexes. Screening of a sorted collection of 84 plant proteins with K+ channels as bait revealed differences in oligomerization between KAT1, AKT1, and AtKC1, and allowed detection of putative interacting partners of KAT1 and AtKC1. These results show that mbSUS is suited for systematic analysis of membrane protein interactions.
!~RES~!  Yeast Strains THY.AP4 and THY.AP5. To improve selection of interacting proteins and to enable mating-based large-scale screening, two yeast strains were constructed. The reporter yeast strain THY.AP4 contains reporter genes HIS3, ADE2, and lacZ, all under control of lexA-driven promoters. Compared with the SUS-reporter strain L40 (CITATION), THY.AP4 grows significantly faster and contains the additional lexA::ADE2 reporter. THY.AP4 permits detection of interacting proteins by (i) selection on media lacking adenine and histidine, (ii) monitoring β-galactosidase activity of lacZ with 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-galactosidase or o-nitrophenylglucoside as substrates, and (iii) monitoring ADE2 enzymatic activity by visual analysis of accumulation of red pigment (CITATION). THY.AP5 was designed for transformation with Nub fusions and testing for interactions between Nub and Cub (in THY.AP4) fusions by mating.  Linkers and Vectors. Linkers B1 and B2 were fused into pSUgate plasmids (FIG-REF). B1 and B2 contain attB1 and attB2 sites of the GATEWAY cloning system (CITATION) and allow in vivo cloning (CITATION) of a single PCR product of each ORF into the different pSUgate vectors (Fig. 7, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). Because efficiency of in vivo cloning depends on efficient cleavage of vectors, a cassette containing the kanamycin resistance gene and a set of two noncompatible restriction sites were inserted between the linkers, permitting counterselection on G418. pNXgate and pXNgate are multiple-copy plasmids containing TRP1 for selection in yeast, suitable for NubG-X and X-NubG fusions of prey polypeptides X, respectively (FIG-REF). pMetYCgate is a low-copy plasmid with the selection marker LEU2, comprised of the Met-repressible MET25 promoter, B1-KanMX-B2 cassette, and CubPLV. pMetYCgate is suited for Y-CubPLV fusions of bait peptides Y. To verify that the MET25 promoter can be used to modulate bait levels, Arabidopsis KAT1 was cloned into pMetYCgate. Regulation of MET25-KAT1-CubPLV by Met was analyzed with a PLV-specific antibody (FIG-REF). The antibody detected an ≈130-kDa polypeptide corresponding approximately to the sum of the calculated molecular masses of KAT1 (78 kDa), B2-Cub (6.4 kDa), and PLV (47 kDa). KAT1-CubPLV levels were lower at 0.15 mM Met and repressed at higher concentrations. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  Detection of KAT1 Homomers. mbSUS was tested by analyzing interactions between the K+ channel KAT1 and a set of Arabidopsis prey: KAT1, the putative cyclic nucleotide-gated channel CNGC1, and the sucrose transporters SUC2 and SUT2. pNX-gate and pNubWT-2, vectors expressing soluble NubG and wild-type Nub (NubWT), were used as controls. Growth of diploid cells under selective conditions revealed interaction of KAT1-CubPLV with NubG-KAT1 and NubWT on 0.15 mM Met (FIG-REF). In the absence of Met, cells coexpressing KAT1-CubPLV with NubG-KAT1 or NubWT grew faster than cells coexpressing KAT1-CubPLV with the sucrose transporters. Interaction of KAT1 with itself was confirmed by ADE2 and lacZ assays. Interactions were further verified with anti-PLV antibodies. Significant levels of the released PLV (47 kDa) were detected only in cells expressing KAT1-CubPLV with NubG-KAT1 or NubWT (FIG-REF). The increased amount of released PLV correlated with a decrease of KAT1-CubPLV polypeptide.  Screens Reveal Specific Heteromerization of KAT1 with AKT1. To test the suitability of mbSUS for systematic approaches, screens using K+ channels KAT1 and AKT1 as baits and SUC2, SUT2, KAT1, CNGC1, AKT1, vacuolar K+ channel KCO1, and purine transporter PUP1 as prey were carried out. For this purpose, THY.AP4 was cotransformed with linear pMetYC-gate and bait PCR products, and THY.AP5 was cotransformed with linear pNXgate or pXNgate and prey PCR products. To avoid negative effects of PCR-induced mutations (CITATION), 30 clones from THY.AP4 and THY.AP5 transformations were pooled. The respective pools were mated, and diploids were selected under prototrophic conditions (FIG-REF). Diploids were replica-plated, and interactions were monitored regarding HIS3 and ADE2 reporters by incubating plates at 28°C and analyzing growth after different incubation periods. The NubG-X screen revealed interactions of KAT1-CubPLV with NubG-KAT1 and NubG-AKT1, and of AKT1-CubPLV with NubG-AKT1 after 2 days of incubation (FIG-REF). Interaction of AKT1-CubPLV with NubG-KAT1 was observed after 6 days of incubation (Fig. 8, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). Screens with the inverse X-NubG fusions confirmed homo- and heteromeric interactions for KAT1-CubPLV with KAT1-NubG and AKT1-NubG, and of AKT1-CubPLV with AKT1-NubG and KAT1-NubG (FIG-REF). Both CubPLV fusions interacted with soluble NubWT, but not with soluble NubG. In general, X-NubG interactions seemed weak compared with NubG-X interactions. Therefore, longer incubation times were needed (2 versus 9 days for comparable growth). Neither KAT1 nor AKT1 showed significant interaction with KCO1, PUP1, or with SUC2 and SUT2, which was consistent with previous tests using the original SUS (CITATION). Moreover, KAT1 and AKT1 did not interact with the structurally closely related shaker-like CNGC1. To verify that CNGC1 was expressed, THY.AP4 was cotransformed with pMetYCgate and a CNGC1 PCR product. After mating with yeast expressing Nub baits, CNGC1-CubPLV interacted with NubWT, but not with NubG, KAT1-NubG, or AKT1-NubG (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]]  Homo- and Heteromers of K+ Channels. Heterooligomers of KAT1/AKT1 were detected by using mbSUS; however, the existence of KAT1/AKT1 heteromers in plants is controversial (CITATION, CITATION). To study heteromerization in more detail, a second shaker-like K+ channel AKT2 known to interact with both AKT1 and KAT1 was tested (CITATION, CITATION). The screening approach involves replica plating, which seems to lead to increased background growth. To increase signal-to-noise ratio, the following assays were performed by using a screening protocol in which cells are directly plated on minimal medium. KAT1-CubPLV and AKT2-CubPLV interacted with NubG fusions of KAT1, AKT1, and AKT2 (FIG-REF). AKT1-CubPLV interacted with NubG fusions of AKT1 and AKT2, and with NubG-KAT1; however, no significant interaction was detected with KAT1-NubG. The inability to detect interactions between KAT1-NubG and AKT1-CubPLV may reflect low expression levels of AKT1-CubPLV (Fig. 9, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site), which translate into reduced growth rates of cells coexpressing AKT1-CubPLV bait and prey compared to cells expressing KAT1-CubPLV and AKT2-CubPLV bait and prey, respectively (6 versus 4 days of incubation for comparable colony sizes, FIG-REF). Interactions between KAT1 and AKT1 were further analyzed by quantitative lacZ assays (FIG-REF). LacZ activity was higher in cells coexpressing KAT1-CubPLV with NubG-AKT1 as compared with cells coexpressing KAT1-CubPLV with NubG-KAT1 and KAT1-NubG, suggesting that the interaction of KAT1-CubPLV with NubG-AKT1 may be stronger. Levels of AKT1-CubPLV interactions were too low for quantitation. [[FIGURE]]  Involvement of the C Terminus in K+ Channel Interactions. C termini of plant shaker-like K+ channels are known to interact and thought to contribute to channel oligomerization (CITATION, CITATION). To analyze the role of the C termini, KAT1-ΔR5-6 and AKT1ΔR5-6 deletion mutants lacking the C-terminal domains R5 and R6 were fused to NubG and tested against KAT1-, AKT1-, and AKT2-CubPLV fusions (CITATION). The interaction-dependent growth of diploids expressing NubG-KAT1-ΔR5-6 and NubG-AKT1ΔR5-6 was significantly reduced when compared with corresponding cells expressing NubG-KAT1 and NubG-AKT1 (FIG-REF). AKT1ΔR5-6-CubPLV and KAT1-ΔR5-6-CubPLV interacted with NubWT, demonstrating that the deletion mutants are expressed (data not shown). NubG fusions of deletion mutants were further analyzed by quantitative lacZ assays. Consistent with growth assays, NubG-KAT1-ΔR5-6 and NubG-AKT1ΔR5-6 revealed significantly lower lacZ activities with KAT1- and AKT2-CubPLV when compared with NubG-KAT1 and NubG-AKT1 (FIG-REF). Interactions with AKT1-CubPLV were too weak to allow quantitation. [[FIGURE]]  Screening of a Sorted X-NubG Collection. It was important to verify that mbSUS is indeed suitable for large-scale approaches, because technical problems such as a high background/signal ratio may appear only when testing large numbers in parallel. A sorted collection of 84 Arabidopsis ORF-NubG fusions was constructed in THY.AP5 as prey and screened with nine ORF-CubPLV fusions in THY.AP4 as bait. To allow high-throughput screening, a liquid–media interaction assay in 96-well format was established. Collection construction, a complete list of ORFs, and the screening procedure are described in Table 1. The collection was screened with CubPLV fusions of K+ channel KAT1, AKT1, AtKC1 and six nonrelated transporters as controls (Table 2, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). Screenings were repeated at least twice, and interactions detected in both experiments were scored (CITATION). Fifteen interactions were detected by testing 84 × 9 individual pairs on media containing 0, 0.1, 0.4, and 1 mM Met (FIG-REF and Table 2). In general, 5 days of incubation were sufficient to detect interactions of CubPLV bait with NubWT or X-NubG prey. After longer incubation, no additional interactions were observed (Fig. 10, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). However, longer incubation times were required for detection of AKT1-CubPLV interactions, consistent with the finding that cells expressing AKT1-CubPLV bait with prey have reduced growth rates because of lower AKT1-CubPLV abundance (Figs. FIG-REF, FIG-REF, and 9). KAT1-CubPLV bait interacted with AKT1 and KAT1 but not with AtKC1 prey. AtKC1-CubPLV interacted with AKT1 but not with KAT1 and AtKC1. The interactions were specific because neither AKT1 nor KAT1 prey interacted with other CubPLV fusions (Table 2). AKT1-CubPLV interacted with NubWT, but not with X-NubG fusions, a finding different from the previous small-scale interaction screens (FIG-REF). The inability to detect AKT1-CubPLV interactions with AKT1-NubG and KAT1-NubG suggests that the large-scale procedure may be less sensitive than the small-scale X-NubG tests. In addition to interactions between the K+ channels, other interacting partners of KAT1 and AtKC1 were detected: a purine transporter homolog PUP11 interacted with KAT1-CubPLV, whereas AtKC1-CubPLV interacted with a nitrate transporter homolog NRT2.7 and with a GTPase Rop1 (CITATION–CITATION). The interactions were specific, because neither PUP11 nor NRT2.7 and Rop1 prey interacted with other tested CubPLV fusions (Table 2). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~!  Strains and Vectors. Construction of yeast strains for the mating approach THY.AP4 [MATa ura3 leu2 lexA::lacZ::trp1 lexA::HIS3 lexA::ADE2] and THY.AP5 [MATα URA3 leu2 trp1 his3 loxP::ade2] and of pSUgate vectors pMetYCgate, pNXgate, pXN-gate, and pNubWT-2 is described in Supporting Text, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site.  Cloning into pSUgate Vectors and Interaction Screens. Arabidopsis ORFs (Table 1, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site) were amplified from the first-strand DNA with TripleMaster DNA polymerase (Eppendorf) by using gene-specific primers (acaagtttgtacaaaaaagcaggctctccaaccaccATGX19–25-5′ ORF and tccgccaccaccaaccactttgtacaagaaagctgggtaX19–25-3′ strand ORF without stop). Purified PCR products were cloned in vivo (CITATION). For NubG fusions, pNXgate and pXNgate were cleaved with EcoRI/SmaI and used together with PCR products to transform THY.AP5. Transformants were selected on synthetic complete (SC) media lacking tryptophan (T) and uracil (U). For CubPLV fusions, pMetYCgate was cleaved with PstI/HindIII and used together with PCR products to transform THY.AP4. Transformants were selected on SC lacking leucine (L). Several clones from each THY.AP5 and THY.AP4 transformation were incubated in appropriate SC media with and without G418. Stationary cultures without G418 were harvested, and plasmids were isolated and amplified in Escherichia coli. DNA sequence of constructs was determined, and constructs were used for interaction assays. For interaction screening full-length ORFs and partial cDNAs KAT1-ΔR5-6 (KAT1 from 1–1,506) and AKT1ΔR5-6 (AKT1 from 1–1,488) were cloned into pSUgate vectors as described above. Thirty clones from each THY.AP5 and THY.AP4 transformation were mixed, and these pools were incubated in appropriate SC media with and without G418. Stationary cultures without G418 were used for subsequent interaction assays.  Interaction Assays. Stationary cultures (see above) were harvested and resuspended in yeast extract/peptone/dextrose (YPD). The THY.AP4 (Cub) and THY.AP5 (Nub) suspensions were mixed and plated on YPD. After 6–8 h at 28°C, cells were selected for diploids by replica plating on SC media -TUL, and incubated at 28°C for 2–3 days. For growth assays, diploid cells were either replica-plated or streaked out on synthetic dextrose minimal media (SD) with different concentrations of methionine (Met) as indicated. Growth was monitored for 2–9 days. For β-galactosidase assays and Western blot, see supporting information.  Construction of a Sorted cDNA Collection and 96-Well Array Screening. Construction of a sorted NubG collection, the list of selected Arabidopsis ORFs, and the screening procedure in 96-well plate format, as well as a table summarizing all results, are described in the supporting information.
