!~ABS~! SKOR and GORK are outward-rectifying plant potassium channels from Arabidopsis thaliana. They belong to the Shaker superfamily of voltage-dependent K+ channels. Channels of this class are composed of four α-subunits and subunit assembly is a prerequisite for channel function. In this study the assembly mechanism of SKOR was investigated using the yeast two-hybrid system and functional assays in Xenopus oocytes and in yeast. We demonstrate that SKOR and GORK physically interact and assemble into heteromeric Kout channels. Deletion mutants and chimeric proteins generated from SKOR and the Kin channel α-subunit KAT1 revealed that the cytoplasmic C-terminus of SKOR determines channel assembly. Two domains that are crucial for channel assembly were identified: i), a proximal interacting region comprising a putative cyclic nucleotide-binding domain together with 33 amino acids just upstream of this domain, and ii), a distal interacting region showing some resemblance to the KT domain of KAT1. Both regions contributed differently to channel assembly. Whereas the proximal interacting region was found to be active on its own, the distal interacting region required an intact proximal interacting region to be active. Kout α-subunits did not assemble with Kin α-subunits because of the absence of interaction between their assembly sites.
!~RES~! On the basis of Kin and Kweak channels it has been proven that Shaker-like plant K+ channel α-subunits can form heteromeric channels (CITATION). In this study, a first set of experiments was performed to address the question of whether plant Kout channel subunits also contribute to the formation of heteromeric channels. After coexpression of the Kin channel α-subunit KAT1 and the Kout channel α-subunit SKOR in Xenopus oocytes, inward currents activating more negative than −80mV were observed along with outward currents activating more positive than −20mV (CITATIONA ). From the analyses of the steady-state current-voltage characteristics, the simplest hypothesis was that the two current components originated from two distinct homomeric entities comprising either KAT1 or SKOR subunits (CITATIONB ; cf. CITATION, for KAT1 and GORK expressing oocytes). This interpretation was fully confirmed by coexpressing KAT1 with a dominant-negative mutant of SKOR, dnSKOR (= SKOR-G292R-D293N-A296V). When this mutant was coexpressed with the SKOR wild-type, outward-rectifying K+ currents were efficiently suppressed. When coexpressed with KAT1, dnSKOR did not affect the current amplitude compared to the control experiment (KAT1/H2O control: same volume of KAT1 cRNA and same volume of water injected; not shown). In contrast, the two Arabidopsis Kout channel α-subunits SKOR and GORK were able to form heteromeric channels. When SKOR was coexpressed with a dominant-negative mutant of GORK, dnGORK (= GORK-G273R-Y274R; CITATION), the level of functional channels, reflected by the observed current amplitude, was significantly reduced compared to the control (SKOR/H2O; Student's t-test, P <10−7). Similar findings were obtained by testing the combinations SKOR/dnSKOR, GORK/dnSKOR, and GORK/dnGORK (CITATIONC and D ). It should be emphasized that the same amount of wild-type SKOR-cRNA and GORK-cRNA, respectively, was injected in all the oocytes, and that compared experiments were carried out at the same time interval after injection. Furthermore, coexpression of a dominant-negative mutant of KAT1 (KAT1-G262R-Y263R) with SKOR and GORK affected neither the current amplitude of SKOR nor that of GORK (not shown). Therefore it could be excluded that reduced current amplitudes in coexpression experiments involving SKOR/dnSKOR, GORK/dnGORK, SKOR/dnGORK, and GORK/dnSKOR resulted from a saturation of the translation machinery of the oocyte due to an increased amount of injected cRNA. Thus, the above data clearly demonstrated that Kout channel α-subunits encoded by different genes form heteromeric Kout channels, whereas they do not coassemble with the Kin channel subunit KAT1. The region responsible for assembly of SKOR channels was narrowed down by coexpressing the entire SKOR α-subunit with N- and C-terminal truncations of itself (CITATIONA ). The C-terminal deletion, SKOR-ΔCt, corresponds to the SKOR polypeptide extending from the N-terminus to the fourth transmembrane segment (S4), whereas the N-terminal deletion, SKOR-ΔNt, represents the SKOR polypeptide spanning from the fourth transmembrane region to the C-terminus. The two truncated α-subunits had different effects on the functional expression of SKOR channels. The amplitudes of the K+ currents measured in oocytes injected with mixtures of SKOR/H2O (CITATIONA , left traces) and SKOR/SKOR-ΔCt (CITATIONA , middle traces) did not differ markedly from each other. The steady-state current amplitudes at +40mV were I 40mV =1.76±0.12 μA and 1.58±0.19 μA, respectively (CITATIONB ). In contrast, in oocytes injected with SKOR/SKOR-ΔNt the formation of functional channels was reduced to ∼20% (CITATIONA (right traces) and B). Oocytes expressing SKOR-ΔNt, SKOR-ΔCt, or SKOR-ΔNt/SKOR-ΔCt did not display any currents significantly different from the baseline in control oocytes injected with water only (not shown). Collectively, these results suggested that the assembly domain of SKOR is located in the channel region downstream of S4. Hence, the formation of functional tetrameric structures in the case of plant Kout channels appears not to involve an assembly domain at the N-terminus, which contrasts with the situation known from animal Shaker channels. Instead, assembly of plant Kout channels appears to be triggered via a domain(s) located at the C-terminus, like in plant Kin channels or animal EAG channels. To test this hypothesis further, the C-terminal part of KAT1, which is supposed to comprise the assembly domain of the channel (CITATION), was replaced by the C-terminus of SKOR. Unfortunately, the chimera KAT1-CtSKOR appeared to be nonfunctional in oocytes: under different experimental conditions (different bath pH and K+ concentrations), no currents different from the baseline could be elicited in the voltage interval from −170mV to +80mV (not shown). On the other hand, the chimera complemented the Wagf2 (Δtrk1,2) yeast strain (CITATION), which is deficient in potassium uptake (CITATIONC (left bottom) and D (open circles)). This yeast strain, which does not display significant growth on media containing <5mM K+, is auxotroph for two selection markers, histidine and uracil, enabling coexpression experiments. Taking advantage of these properties in a subsequent set of experiments, the cDNAs encoding two channel α-subunits, namely KAT1 and the KAT1-CtSKOR chimera, were cloned into the low-copy (centromeric) plasmid pFL38His-PGK containing the HIS3 marker, and those of three potential effectors, dnSKOR, SKOR-ΔCt, and SKOR-ΔNt, were cloned into the multicopy plasmid pFL61 carrying URA3 as a marker. Yeast cells were cotransformed with pairwise combinations of these constructs and the empty vectors, and selected for the simultaneous presence of the two marker genes on K+-rich (50mM) medium. Positive colonies were subsequently tested for their ability to grow in low K+ (2mM) medium. Independent of the absence or presence of dnSKOR, SKOR-ΔCt, and SKOR-ΔNt, the empty pFL38His-PGK plasmid did not allow the mutant yeast to grow in this medium (CITATIONC (top) and D (dashed-dotted line)). The positive control experiment showed that yeast growth supported by KAT1 was not affected by any of the SKOR-based constructs (CITATIONC (middle) and D (solid symbols)). This observation confirmed the result obtained in oocytes, where KAT1 did not functionally interact with SKOR. In contrast, yeast growth mediated by the chimera KAT1-CtSKOR (CITATIONC , bottom) was selectively inhibited by dnSKOR and SKOR-ΔNt (CITATIOND , open diamonds and open triangles), whereas the presence of SKOR-ΔCt had no inhibiting effect (CITATIOND , open squares). By fitting the time course of yeast growth with a mathematical function that describes growth under limiting nutrient (K+) conditions (CITATIOND , lines), we were able to quantify and interpret the differences between the distinct genotypes in the following way. The growth of KAT1 expressing cells saturated at an optical density of OD ∞ =1.9, whereas growth of the cells expressing KAT1-CtSKOR did at OD ∞ =1.6, indicating a less efficient exploitation of the limiting K+ resource by the chimera in comparison with the wild-type KAT1. Additionally, yeast cells coexpressing KAT1-CtSKOR and dnSKOR, or SKOR-ΔNt, showed a τ-value 2.5 times larger than the control (KAT1-CtSKOR/empty pFL61). This is equivalent to a 40% reduction in the proliferation rate constant β (see Materials and Methods), likely to be the consequence of a reduced potassium uptake rate in these cells. The whole set of data therefore indicated that the chimera KAT1-CtSKOR, by interacting with dnSKOR and SKOR-ΔNt in yeast, exhibited the same behavior as SKOR in Xenopus oocytes. Thus, KAT1-CtSKOR combined characteristic functional features of the parental channels KAT1 and SKOR: from KAT1 it inherited the ability to complement a potassium uptake-deficient yeast strain, and from SKOR it inherited its assembly domain located at the C-terminus. This conclusion was further substantiated by electrophysiological studies of yeast cells transformed with a pFL61-KAT1-CtSKOR construct. Patch-clamp analyses and comparisons with yeast cells transformed with a pFL61-KAT1-CtKAT1 construct indicated that this chimera mediated potassium inward currents (CITATIONE ). To gain further clues on the molecular basis of SKOR channel assembly, its cytoplasmic C-terminus was analyzed for the presence of functional domains. Sequence comparisons with motifs in protein databases and in other plant K+ channels identified three domains (CITATIONA ). The region from L419 to H511 shows high homology (40% identity) to the motif pfam00027 (http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Software/Pfam/index.shtml) representing a cyclic-nucleotide binding domain (cNBD). The region from D580 to R709 contains six ankyrin motif repeats (forming the so-called ankyrin domain; CITATION). The region from G774 to T828 (KHA) is rich in acidic amino acid residues similar to the KHA-domain previously characterized in the potato Kin channel KST1 (CITATION). To uncover the role of the different domains, deletions in both, the SKOR wild-type polypeptide and the dominant-negative mutant dnSKOR were generated. The deleted polypeptide SKOR-ΔcNBD (= SKOR-D438_L506del; nomenclature according to CITATION) lacks 69 amino acid residues within the putative cNBD, and SKOR-Δ746 (= SKOR-K746X-E747_T828del; X, stop codon) lacks the last 83 residues of the polypeptide including the KHA domain (last 55 amino acids). After expression in oocytes, SKOR-Δ746 mediated potassium currents reminiscent of the wild-type SKOR channel (not specifically illustrated, but see CITATIONB , shaded columns), whereas SKOR-ΔcNBD remained electrically silent (not shown). In coexpression experiments only dnSKOR-Δ746 was found to affect the expression level of functional SKOR channels (estimated from the amplitude of the exogenous currents): as shown in CITATIONB (solid columns), the presence of the dnSKOR-Δ746 α-subunit resulted in an ∼85% decrease in current amplitude, whereas the presence of dnSKOR-ΔcNBD did not significantly affect the current of SKOR. Similar results were obtained using SKOR-Δ746 as target α-subunit (CITATIONB , shaded columns). When compared with SKOR-Δ746 expressing oocytes, current amplitudes were strongly reduced in oocytes coexpressing SKOR-Δ746 and dnSKOR-Δ746. In contrast, a reduction of functionally active channels was not observed after coinjection of SKOR-Δ746/dnSKOR-ΔcNBD cRNA mixtures. The lack of currents in oocytes injected with SKOR-ΔcNBD cRNA, and the absence of any effect of dnSKOR-ΔcNBD in coexpression studies could be caused by some disruption of an essential assembly domain due to the deletion in the cNBD. Alternatively, it is possible that the protein encoded by the modified (dn)SKOR-ΔcNBD cRNAs or even the cRNA itself is rapidly degraded in oocytes. If this were the case, dnSKOR-ΔcNBD polypeptides would not be able to interact with SKOR α-subunits. To check for this possibility, three batches of oocytes injected with SKOR-cRNA, dnSKOR-ΔcNBD-cRNA, or H2O, respectively, were incubated with 35S-labeled methionine and cysteine. After 3 days of incubation, proteins were extracted from the oocytes, separated by SDS-PAGE, and visualized by autoradiography (CITATIONC ). The lane corresponding to SKOR-injected oocytes specifically displayed a band close to the 100-kDa marker (left lane). The deletion of 69 amino acids in dnSKOR-ΔcNBD resulted in a band with a slightly smaller apparent molecular weight (middle lane). Both bands were absent from H2O-injected control oocytes (CITATIONC , right lane). The position of the two polypeptide bands corresponded quite well with the theoretical calculations of 93.9 kDa and 86.1 kDa for the molecular weight of monomeric SKOR and dnSKOR-ΔcNBD, respectively. Thus, the polypeptide dnSKOR-ΔcNBD was expressed in oocytes. However, an investigation of the subcellular localization of a GFP-dnSKOR-ΔcNBD fusion protein in tobacco BY2 cells using a confocal laser scanning microscope revealed that it was not targeted to the plasmamembrane. Instead it accumulated in the ER (not shown), a result well known for mutants of animal channel proteins that exhibit a distorted or disrupted assembly behavior (CITATION). To unravel the role of the cNBD in SKOR channel assembly the entire cyclic nucleotide-binding domain of the mutant dnSKOR (dnSKOR-E410_L520) was replaced by the corresponding domain of KAT1 (KAT1-N384_L493, CITATIOND ). The two cNBDs are supposed to have a similar structure but share an identity of only 30% (for comparison: the cNBDs of SKOR and GORK are 70% identical). Upon coexpression with the SKOR wild type the dnSKOR-cNBD-KAT1 chimeric protein displayed a dominant-negative behavior (CITATIONE ) identical to the mutant dnSKOR-cNBD-SKOR (= dnSKOR; CITATIONC ). We concluded that in the deletion mutants (dn)SKOR-ΔcNBD misfolding of the polypeptide likely disrupted functional channel assembly and affected its targeting. This defect could be compensated by the presence of the KAT1-cNBD. Therefore it appears that the cNBD is essential for SKOR assembly by maintaining the structural integrity of the protein. The cNBD, itself, however, does not determine the specificity of the assembly. To gain further insights into the assembly behavior of SKOR physical protein-protein interactions were tested employing the yeast two-hybrid system. In a first set of experiments, the cytoplasmic C-termini downstream of the membrane-spanning domains of SKOR and GORK were fused to the LexA DNA binding domain and to the GAL4 activator domain. After pairwise coexpression in yeast, growth on histidine-free medium and expression of β-galactosidase activity were detected in all possible combinations (CITATIONA ). These results indicated that the C-terminus of SKOR, which comprises the domain(s) required for channel assembly (compare CITATION), does physically self-interact. The fact that identical results were obtained for both, the C-terminus of SKOR and GORK, suggests a similar assembly mechanism for the two plant Kout channels. Finally, the physical interaction between Ct-SKOR and Ct-GORK revealed by the two hybrid tests (CITATION) is very likely a major reason for the formation of heteromeric channels in Xenopus oocytes (CITATIONC and D ). In a following set of experiments, seven regions of the C-terminus of SKOR were defined and named A–G (CITATIONB ). Nine deletions were generated as shown in CITATIONB . The construct ABCDEF- is identical to the C-terminus of the mutant SKOR-Δ746, and AB-DEFG to the C-terminus of dnSKOR-ΔcNBD. Unfortunately, six of the nine constructs fused to the LexA DNA binding domain in pLexPD showed autoactivity when cotransformed with the empty plasmid pAD-GAL4 and tested for growth on histidine-free medium. Two-hybrid combinations involving these six constructs were consequently not further considered for analyses of β-galactosidase activities. Twenty-five construct pairs were tested for protein-protein interactions in both reporter assays (CITATIONC ). The following results were obtained: When the cNBD was deleted (AB-DEFG) no positive signal could be observed in any of the combinations tested, indicating that the presence of the cNBD, maintaining the structural integrity of the polypeptide, is essential not only for channel assembly but also for the physical interaction of the C-termini of both, SKOR and GORK. The cNBD alone apparently was not actively involved in establishing the interaction because the two-hybrid tests were negative when any one of the tested constructs was restricted to the cNBD alone (--C----), or to a region starting with this domain and ending at the channel C-terminus (--CDEFG). The fact that the constructs ABC---- and -BCDEFG interacted with Ct-SKOR (whereas --CDEFG did not), suggested that region B (representing a 33 amino acid stretch just upstream of the cNBD) plays an important role in triggering the physical interactions of the Kout channel C-termini. To investigate which domains of the SKOR C-terminal region play a role in the formation of active channels, functional approaches were developed in both, yeast and Xenopus oocytes. In yeast, we tested the ability of different new chimeric constructs to complement a strain defective for K+ uptake. These constructs were obtained by concatenating the KAT1 transmembrane channel core (KAT1-M1_R305) with C-terminal chimeras, which themselves consisted of parts of the KAT1 and SKOR C-terminal regions. Generation of the C-terminal chimeras was based on sequence comparisons of the C-terminal regions of SKOR and KAT1. Both segments display a similar structural organization except that an ankyrin domain is present in the C-terminal part of SKOR, downstream of the cNBD, but is absent from the C-terminal region of KAT1 (CITATIONB and 5 A ). The C-termini of both channel α-subunits were subdivided into six regions. The first five parts coincided with the fragments A–E previously defined, and the sixth region corresponded to the combined fragments F and G (compare CITATIONB with CITATIONA ). In all C-terminal chimeras, the region C (the cNBD) was fixed to originate from SKOR. The other regions were successively transferred from KAT1 to SKOR. In total, 12 chimeric constructs were created (CITATIONA and B ). Each construct was defined by a stretch of six letters, either s or k, corresponding to the six successive regions from A to F/G, an s indicating that the referred region was from SKOR, and a k that the region was from KAT1. The C-terminal chimeras were fused to the hydrophobic core of KAT1 and expressed in the yeast strain Wagf2. Positive colonies were tested for their ability to grow in low K+ conditions. As already shown in CITATIONC , KAT1 (i.e., KAT1-Ct(kkkkkk), according to the above-defined nomenclature, CITATIONB , a2) as well as the chimera KAT1-CtSKOR (KAT1-Ct(ssssss), CITATIONB , d4) complemented the mutant yeast strain. When region C (i.e., cNBD) in KAT1 was replaced by the corresponding region of SKOR, the construct (i.e., the kkskkk chimera) was found to no longer complement the yeast cells (CITATIONB , b1). Further k-to-s substitutions toward the C-terminus (chimeras kksskk, kksssk, and kkssss) did not restore the ability of the chimeric proteins to complement the yeast mutant. Importantly, however, this ability was restored by introducing k-to-s substitutions toward the N-terminus: When the second region (region B) was of SKOR origin, the resulting chimeras (ksskkk, kssskk, kssssk, and ksssss) appeared to be as efficient in complementing the yeast mutant cells (CITATIONB , c1, c2, c3, and c4) as the wild-type KAT1 control. Finally, substituting the KAT1-derived A region for the corresponding region of SKOR origin gave surprising results: the resulting chimeras were less efficient (chimeras ssskkk and sssskk; CITATIONB , d1 and d2) or not at all able (chimera sssssk, CITATIONB , d3) in complementing the yeast mutant. Taken together, the yeast complementation experiments revealed that at least seven of the twelve chimeric α-subunits were able to assemble into functional channels. In all functional chimeric proteins fragments B and C were of SKOR origin, indicating a dominant role of the region located upstream of the cNBD not only for physical C-terminal interactions, but also for the formation of functional channels. The yeast experiments above provided some useful but still incomplete information: On the one hand, the functionality of a chimera indicates that its assembly mechanism is intact. However, the assembly mechanism of a functional chimera is not necessarily identical to that of SKOR. On the other hand, the lack of demonstration of function for a chimera is not automatically an indication for a distorted assembly mechanism. Therefore, the C-terminal chimeras, tested in the preceding experiment, were fused to the hydrophobic core of the dominant-negative mutant channel dnSKOR. The resulting constructs were coexpressed with the wild-type SKOR channel in Xenopus oocytes. Using 35S-labeled methionine and cysteine, chimerical protein expression was checked exemplarily for the constructs dnSKOR-Ct(kkskkk), dnSKOR-Ct(kkssss), dnSKOR-Ct(kssssk), dnSKOR-Ct(sssssk), and dnSKOR-Ct(ssssss) (marked x in CITATIONC , cf. CITATIONC ). Nevertheless, coexpression of SKOR with chimeras in which region B was of KAT1 origin, i.e., chimeras of the type dnSKOR-Ct(kksxxx) (cf. CITATIONB , b1–b4), did not significantly influence the measured K+ currents in comparison to SKOR/H2O (CITATIONC ). This result supported the above-made conclusion that region B (together with the cNBD, region C) plays an essential role in SKOR channel formation. Whereas region C appeared to be essential for assembly by maintaining the structural integrity of the protein, region B seemed to be involved in determining the specificity of the assembly. Interestingly, however, some chimeras in which both regions, B and C, were of SKOR origin were also not able to strongly reduce SKOR currents. Only two constructs with F/G segments of SKOR origin, i.e., the dnSKOR-Ct(ksssss) chimera and the SKOR dominant-negative mutant itself (“dnSKOR-Ct(ssssss) chimera”), were endowed with a strong dominant-negative behavior (CITATIONC ). These data suggested the presence of another domain in the far C-terminus (in region F/G) involved in the formation of tetrameric channels. This hypothesis was also supported by the fact that the functional chimeras KAT1-Ct(ssskkk), KAT1-Ct(sssskk), and KAT1-Ct(ssssss) (CITATIONB , d1, d2, and d4) lost their ability to complement yeast when the last three segments of the constructs were deleted (resulting in the chimeric polypeptide KAT1-Ct(sss---); data not shown). To further analyze the role of the F/G region in channel assembly, additional chimeras, and deletions at the very C-terminus were generated in the dnSKOR mutant background (CITATIONA ). When the KHA domain of dnSKOR (G774_T828) was replaced by the KHA domain of KAT1 (G624_N677; CITATIONA , i) the resulting channel exhibited dominant-negative behavior upon coexpression with wild-type SKOR (CITATIONB , i). However, when a slightly larger region was exchanged (KAT1-R608_N677 replacing SKOR-V752_T828; CITATIONA , ii), dominant-negative behavior was no longer observed. In coexpression experiments with SKOR, this mutant caused only a small decrease (30%) in the K+ current level (CITATIONB , ii). When in this mutated chimera, the 70 residues of KAT1 origin as well as seven more residues of SKOR were deleted (CITATIONA , iii (= dnSKOR-Δ746)), the dominant-negative behavior was restored (CITATIONB , iii). As already shown (CITATION), the truncation of the terminal 83 amino acid residues of the SKOR α-subunit (SKOR-Δ746) affected neither the ability of the polypeptide to form functional channels nor its capacity to assemble with SKOR. However, the removal of 27 more residues (marked “σ” in CITATIONA ) did. The deletion mutant SKOR-Δ719 (=SKOR-L719X-G720_T828del) did not mediate currents when expressed in Xenopus oocytes (not shown). Similarly, the mutant dnSKOR-Δ719 (CITATIONA , iv) only slightly (20%) reduced the K+ current levels in coexpression experiments with the wild-type SKOR α-subunit (CITATIONB , iv). These results indicated that the two segments “σ” (SKOR-L719_K746) and “κ” (KAT1-R608_G624) are involved in determining the assembly specificity of the channel proteins. Sequence comparisons between the segments “σ”and “κ” revealed some resemblance (17% identity, 67% similarity) in a 12 amino-acid-residue-long fragment (CITATIONC ). In Kin channels, a previous study proposed that this domain, called KT, is involved in heteromerization of Kin channel α-subunits encoded by different genes (CITATION). The characteristic feature of the KT domain is a conserved tetrapeptide [R-(V/I)-(T/S/I)-(I/V)], which is at positions R612–I615 in KAT1 (underlined in CITATIONC ), and which harbors a putative phosphorylation site. A similar motif, however, is absent in Kout channels. Instead, by comparing the sequences of five different Kout channels available from diverse plant species (CITATION) a dodecapeptide consensus pattern [N-(K/N)-x-(I/L)-(I/M)-K-(L/M)-L-E-(D/N)-x-(K/R)] could be deduced (CITATIOND ). In contrast to the KT domain, this motif does not comprise any putative phosphorylation site. The results presented so far indicated that the specificity of SKOR channel assembly was determined by two distinct regions: segment B (CITATIONB , together with the cNBD named “proximal interacting region” in the following) and segment “σ” (CITATIONA , named “distal interacting region” in the following). Whereas the upstream region (labeled I in CITATIONA ) could be correlated with direct physical interactions of the SKOR C terminus (CITATION), the contribution of the downstream region to channel assembly was less clear. Therefore, physical interactions of C-termini were further analyzed in yeast, using a more sensitive two-hybrid assay. Cells grown in liquid culture were tested for β-galactosidase activity using ONPG (o-nitrophenyl β-D-galactopyranoside) as substrate. The SKOR C-terminus, fused to the LexA binding domain, served as a potential target for six different constructs fused to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain (CITATIONA ). When the functionality of the proximal interacting region was disrupted by deleting the essential part B (CITATION, ii; CITATIONB (construct --CDEFG)); reporter (β-galactosidase) activity was close to the background level (Ct-SKOR+empty vector, CITATION, vi, and Ct-SKOR+Ct-KAT1, CITATION, v). When the proximal assembly domain was not deleted, but instead was replaced by the corresponding region of KAT1 (labeled I′ in CITATIONA ), a physical interaction with the SKOR C-terminus could be monitored (CITATION, iii). Similarly, when the downstream part of the SKOR C-terminus (comprising the distal interacting region “σ”) was replaced by the distal region of the KAT1 protein, significant β-galactosidase activity was detected (CITATION, iv). Because the SKOR C-terminus did not interact with any segment of the KAT1 C-terminus (CITATION, v), these results suggested a joint contribution of the proximal and the distal assembly regions of SKOR to physical C-terminus interaction. Hereby, the contribution of the distal interacting region depends on the presence of an intact proximal assembly region.
!~MM~! Standard methods of plasmid DNA preparation, PCR, restriction enzyme analysis, agarose gel electrophoresis, and bacterial transformation were applied (CITATION). Chimeras and mutants were created by PCR-based techniques and with the pAlter mutagenesis system (Promega, Charbonnières, France). Further detailed information concerning the 77 constructs tested in this study will be provided upon request. Xenopus oocytes were injected with a volume of 40 nl of cRNA mixtures. Mixtures indicated in the figure legends were prepared from 1 μg/μl cRNA stock solutions. Control oocytes were injected with 40 nl of deionized water. Two-electrode voltage-clamp experiments were carried out as previously described (in France according to CITATION; in Germany according to CITATION). External standard solution was composed of 10mM KCl, 90mM NaCl, 1mM CaCl2, 2mM MgCl2, 10mM Tris/MES pH 7.0. Patch-clamp experiments on yeast protoplasts were carried out as recently described by CITATION. Standard pipette solution contained 175mM KCl, 4mM MgCl2, 4mM K-ATP, 1mM EGTA, 152 μM CaCl2, adjusted to pH 7.0 with KOH. Extracellular solution contained 150mM KCl, 10mM CaCl2, 5mM MgCl2, buffered to pH 6.5 with MES/Tris. Measurements were carried out from a holding potential of −40mV. Currents were evoked by 2.5-s activating voltage pulses from +100mV to −200mV (20-mV steps). The yeast strain Wagf2 (ade2-101; his3-11,15; leu2-3,112; trp1-1; ura3-1; trk1Δ::LEU2; trk2Δ::TRP1; can r ) (CITATION) is deficient for K+ uptake and displays reduced growth in physiological conditions, when the external concentration of K+ is low (∼5mM). It was used for complementation tests together with two yeast expression plasmids: the multicopy plasmid pFL61 (URA3 as a selection marker) (CITATION), and the centromeric plasmid pFL38His-PGK (HIS3 as a selection marker) (CITATION). Selection minimal medium was based on a synthetic arginine/phosphate medium (CITATION) containing 2% glucose, 10mM L-arginine, 150 μM adenine, 2mM MgSO4, 200 μM CaCl2, 13 μM FeNa-EDTA, 8 μM H3BO3, 0.25 μM CuSO4, 0.6 μM KI, 2.7 μM MnSO4, 1 μM Na2MoO4, 2.5 μM ZnSO4, 0.5 μM CoCl2, 0.5 μM NiCl2, 1% BME vitamins solution (Sigma, Taufkirchen, Germany, No. B6891), the pH being adjusted to 6.5 using orthophosphoric acid. Solid minimal medium contained additionally 2% (w/v) Agar (Sigma, No. A7921). Yeast transformation was performed according to CITATION. Transformed yeast cells were selected on minimal medium added with 50mM K+ (introduced as chloride salt). Complementation growth tests were performed with solid and liquid minimal medium added with 2mM KCl, a condition not allowing growth of the noncomplemented Wagf2 strain. For the drop tests on solid medium, isolated yeast colonies were preincubated for 12h in liquid culture containing 50mM K+. They were then diluted in fresh culture medium (final absorption at 600nm of ∼0.25) and grown again until the absorption at 600nm reached 0.6. The cells were collected, washed twice with sterile water, and resuspended in water (the absorption at 600nm being adjusted to the desired value; see the figure legends). The two-hybrid technique was used to identify domains responsible for the assembly of SKOR. Constructs specified in the figures were cloned into the pLexPD vector (CITATION) in fusion with the LexA DNA-binding domain, and into the pAD-GAL4 vector (Stratagene, Amsterdam, The Netherlands) in fusion with the GAL4 activator domain. Combinations of these constructs were used to cotransform the L40 yeast strain, which has two independent reporter genes, lacZ and HIS3, under the control of the minimal GAL1 promoter fused to multimerized LexA binding sites. Double transformants were tested for both, growth in the absence of histidine in the medium and for β-galactosidase activity. β-galactosidase activity in liquid culture was determined using ONPG (o-nitrophenyl β-D-galactopyranoside; Sigma, No. N1127) as substrate according to the Yeast Protocol Handbook (http://www.clontech.com). Six injected oocytes per construct were kept in 990 μl ND96 (96mM NaCl, 2mM KCl, 1mM CaCl2, 1mM MgCl2, 10mM HEPES/NaOH pH 7.4) added with 10 μl of Met-[35S]-label ([35S]-L-methionine, [35S]-L-cysteine, Escherichia coli 35S hydrolysate; Hartmann Analytic, Braunschweig, Germany). Oocytes were incubated for 3 days at 18°C. To isolate protein, oocytes were chilled on ice for 10min, washed twice with ND96, and homogenized in 1ml 10mM K-phosphate, pH 7.4, 5mM EDTA, 5mM EGTA, 1mM AEBSF, 2 μg/ml leupeptin, and 1 μg/ml aprotinin. The suspensions were centrifuged for 5min at 100×g. The supernatant was collected and centrifuged again for 30min at 16,000× g. After a washing step with the homogenization medium, the pellet was resuspended in 60 μl gel loading buffer, and incubated for 6min at 55°C. The amount of radioactivity present in the sample was determined with a liquid scintillation (LS) counter (Beckman Coulter LS6500, Unterschleissheim, Germany). Aliquots corresponding to 105 cpm were loaded onto 10% SDS-PAGE gels. After electrophoresis, the gels were dried and exposed to x-ray films overnight at room temperature. Suspension cultures of tobacco BY2 cells (Nicotiana tabaccum L. cv. Bright Yellow 2) were maintained in LS medium containing 0.2 mg/l 2,4-dichloro-phenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) in the dark at 26°C. For transformation 10-day-old cultures were harvested by vacuum filtration on a nylon membrane, resuspended (1g/10ml) in enzyme solution (0.1% pectolyase Y-23, 0.2% driselase, 1% cellulase, 25mM MES/KOH, 0.6M mannitol, pH 5.5), and incubated in the dark (shaker, 50rpm; 35°C; 3h). Protoplasts were recovered by centrifugation (1200× g), washed with HEPES buffer (25mM HEPES, 0.6M sorbitol, pH 6.7) and purified by gradient centrifugation (HEPES buffer with 0%, 10%, and 20% Ficoll, 30min. at 1200× g). Protoplasts collected from the interfaces were washed twice with W5 solution (154mM NaCl, 125mM CaCl2, 5mM KCl, 5mM glucose, 100mM mannitol, 0.1% MES, pH 5.8) and resuspended to a concentration of 3×106 cells/ml in MaMg solution (0.55M mannitol, 15mM MgCl2, 0.1% MES, pH 5.8). For the transformation (∼1×106 cells per transformation) a heat shock of 45°C was applied for 5min followed by the immediate cooling on ice for 5min. Subsequently, the plasmid DNA (containing the coding region of the fusion protein under the control of the CaMV 35S Promoter, 30 μg) and 50 μg of carrier herring sperm DNA were added. After 5-min incubation at room temperature an equal volume of PEG solution (0.1M Ca(NO3)2, 0.5M mannitol, 0.1% MES, pH 6.5, 40% PEG 3350) was added. After an additional 20min at room temperature the transformation mix was supplemented with 4ml of culture medium (LS medium+0.4M mannitol) and transferred to small Petri dishes. These were incubated at 26°C without shaking in the dark for 2 days. For the analysis of GFP fluorescence, protoplasts were collected by centrifugation (1200× g, 5min) and resuspended in 1.5ml W5 solution. GFP fluorescence was analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (Leica DM IRBE inverse microscope with Leica TCS SP laser scanning unit). Yeast growth was described as follows. Yeast cells, number n, proliferate with a rate dn/dt = β × n(t)× r(t). Under optimal conditions, i.e., in an infinite volume of liquid culture and with a constant level of “resources” needed for growth, e.g., a high concentration of K+, the resource function r(t) would be set to the constant value of 1. Cells would proliferate with the rate β × n(t) resulting in exponential growth. Under experimental conditions, however, i.e., in a finite volume and with consumption of resources (K+), the resource function decreases below 1 with cell proliferation. The decrease is defined proportional to the increase in cell number as dr =−γ ×dn. At the saturation level the resource function is r(t→∞)=0 and therefore dn/dt =0, and n(t→∞)= n ∞. Because the cell number is proportional to the optical density measured at λ =600nm, the n values can be replaced by OD600 values without changing the structure of the equations. An analytical solution of the two coupled differential equations is OD600(t)=(OD ∞ × OD 0)/[OD 0 +(OD ∞ - OD 0)×exp(−t/τ)]. OD 0 and OD ∞ denote the optical densities at t =0 and infinity, respectively. The apparent proliferation time constant, τ, is a function of the constants β and γ.
