!~ABS~! A high degree of selectivity toward the target site of the pest organism is a desirable attribute for new safer agrochemicals. To assist in the design of novel herbicides, we determined the crystal structures of the herbicidal target enzyme 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase (HPPD; EC 1.13.11.27) from the plant Arabidopsis thaliana with and without an herbicidal benzoylpyrazole inhibitor that potently inhibits both plant and mammalian HPPDs. We also determined the structure of a mammalian (rat) HPPD in complex with the same nonselective inhibitor. From a screening campaign of over 1000 HPPD inhibitors, six highly plant-selective inhibitors were found. One of these had remarkable (>1600-fold) selectivity toward the plant enzyme and was cocrystallized with Arabidopsis HPPD. Detailed comparisons of the plant and mammalian HPPD−ligand structures suggest a structural basis for the high degree of plant selectivity of certain HPPD inhibitors and point to design strategies to obtain potent and selective inhibitors of plant HPPD as agrochemical leads. 
!~RES~! Comparison with the Microbial HPPD Structure. Arabidopsis thaliana HPPD (AtHPPD) was truncated at the N-terminus by 21 amino acids relative to the full-length sequence encoded by the cDNA (subsequent residue numberings reflect this truncation). This was done because we had previously determined that the N-terminus of HPPD purified from a native plant source (maize seedlings) was truncated relative to the full-length cDNA-encoded sequence (unpublished data). The truncated AtHPPD was overexpressed in E. coli and purified to homogeneity. The structure of the purified enzyme was solved by multiple isomorphous replacement and refined to 1.8 Å (Table 1). The enzyme forms a homodimer (Figure 2CITATIONa), whereas the Pseudomonas fluorescens (PfHPPD) structure (Protein Data Bank code 1CJX) is homotetrameric (CITATION). The eukaryotic enzyme exhibits two distinct structural domains, similar to the PfHPPD topology, with an open twisted mixed and barrel-shaped β-sheet surrounded by α-helices. [[FIGURE]]  A significant difference between the structures lies in the C-terminal helices. In AtHPPD, the electron density for residues after Asn402 is not well defined, and even main chain atoms have high isotropic displacement parameters (>40 Å2), whereas in PfHPPD, this C-terminal helix is well defined with low isotropic displacement parameters (∼20−35 Å2) for most of the atoms and fits more tightly with the core of the twisted β-barrel. AtHPPD has a long and flexible loop (Val378 to Gly397) preceding the C-terminal helix with a disulfide bond between Cys380 and Cys395. This 19- residue insertion appears to be unique to plant HPPDs based on sequence alignments comparing the currently available plant HPPD sequences with many sequences from other organisms. This loop is disordered such that electron density is often not evident for residues 383−389. The corresponding loop in PfHPPD (Lys327 to Phe332) is significantly shorter and well defined and so may directly limit the possible orientations of the C-terminal helix. An additional difference near the active site between the plant and microbial structures is located in the β-sheet loop between Ala187 and Leu199 of PfHPPD. These residues form two strands of β-sheet that loop over the top of the binding pocket and are close to the C-terminal helix. In AtHPPD, this section (Ala230 to Gly243) is not resolved and may indicate that this binding site is more accommodating than that in PfHPPD.  HPPD Active Site. The active site of AtHPPD is located within an open twisted barrel-like β sheet. In common with other members of this dioxygenase family, the required metal ion at the catalytic center of the active enzyme is Fe2+. This ion may not be tightly bound during purification because the purified enzyme had low activity without added Fe2+. Because 3 mM cobalt chloride was present in our crystallization conditions and no exogenous iron was added, the metal ion at the active site in our crystals may be iron or cobalt. The oxidation state of the metal ion (+2 or +3) in the crystals is also not readily discerned. The iron found in the PfHPPD crystals was determined to be in the ferric form (CITATION). Because we cannot distinguish these two metal ions in our structures and do not have direct experimental evidence as to their oxidation states, we refer to the active site metal ion cofactor as M.  The metal ion in the AtHPPD structure is coordinated by His205 (Nε2 atom), His287 (Nε2 atom), Glu373 (Oε1 atom), and three water molecules forming an octahedral complex (Figure 3CITATIONa), in common with other members of the α-ketoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase family (CITATION). PfHPPD also has three residues (His161, His240, and Glu322) binding to the metal ion. The rms deviation of Cα of these three residues between the plant and microbial proteins is only 0.17 Å. However, the coordination found in PfHPPD is in a distorted tetrahedral geometry with the fourth coordination site of PfHPPD being provided by the oxygen atoms of an acetate molecule. [[FIGURE]]  We first selected the inhibitor DAS869 (Figure 1) for cocrystallization with AtHPPD as it is a potent inhibitor of both plant and rat HPPDs (I50 = 7 and <20 nM, respectively) and exhibits good herbicidal activity (CITATION). DAS869 has bulky substituents relative to other HPPD inhibitors in our collection and so could potentially define the topography of the binding pocket to a greater extent. The structure of the plant enzyme−inhibitor complex (AtHPPD−869) was solved by molecular replacement and refined to 1.8 Å resolution. The structure of AtHPPD−869 was superimposed on that of AtHPPD using the program O (CITATION). The rms deviation was 0.38 Å over 364 Cα atoms. Inspection of the superimposed structures did not reveal any gross differences in the main chain atoms between the ligand-bound and unbound forms. The overall orientation of the inhibitor DAS869 within the active site pocket is shown in Figure 4CITATION. [[FIGURE]]  In the enzyme−inhibitor complex, the three amino acids coordinating to the metal ion remain the same but two coordinating water molecules have been displaced by the 1,3-diketone moiety of the DAS869 inhibitor (Figure 3a,b). The distances from the oxygen atoms to the metal ion were refined to a range of 1.9−2.4 Å. This maintains the octahedral geometry and provides a strong ligand orientation and binding force. All potent HPPD inhibitors in the structural classes described to date contain an acidic 1,3-diketone moiety (CITATION), and the coordination of both inhibitor oxygens to the active site metal ion is clearly an essential element for tight binding.  In addition to metal coordination, the inhibitor binding site involves the side chains of several residues, most notably the phenyl groups of Phe360 and Phe403, which form a π-stacking interaction with the benzoyl moiety of DAS869 (Figures 3b and 4). Phe403 is part of the C-terminal helix that remains unresolved after residue 402 in unliganded AtHPPD. The presence of the ligand therefore appears to anchor this C-terminal helix resulting in good electron density visible out to Lys408. The N1-tert-butyl group on the ligand pyrazole has a tight fit against Pro259 and causes a shift of ∼0.5 Å compared to its position in uncomplexed AtHPPD. No hydrogen bonding interactions with the inhibitor were detected.  For a detailed comparison of inhibitor interactions between a plant and mammalian enzyme, the HPPD from rat (RnHPPD) was cloned, overexpressed in E. coli, purified, and cocrystallized with DAS869 (RnHPPD−869). At- and RnHPPD have only 29% amino acid sequence identity, yet their overall structures are very similar (Figure 2). However, superimposition of the structures shows that there are some regions that do show some structural differences (Figure 5CITATION). The ligand binding features of RnHPPD are very comparable to AtHPPD−869 (Figure 3b,c). One prominent difference occurs in the interaction of the N1-tert-butyl group of the inhibitor with Pro239 in RnHPPD−869. Overlap of the protein backbones of the two structures indicates that Pro239 is not displaced in RnHPPD−869 as was seen for Pro259 in AtHPPD−869 (Figure 6CITATION); thus, this region is more restricted in the mammalian enzyme. Like the microbial PfHPPD but unlike the plant AtHPPD, the rat enzyme has a short rigid loop (His354 to Gly358) before the C-terminal helix, which may directly limit the flexibility and the possible orientations of the helix. [[FIGURE]][[FIGURE]]  Plant-Selective HPPD Inhibitors. Detailed information on the relative selectivity of HPPD inhibitors has not been reported previously. We therefore screened a Dow AgroSciences collection of over 1000 HPPD inhibitors against both plant and mammalian HPPDs using a novel microplate-based assay of HPPD. A total of 950 of 1024 compounds tested had I50 values below 16 μM. The large majority of inhibitors tested were equipotent on the enzymes from both plant and mammalian sources, but six compounds were identified that showed significant selectivity (from 50 to >1600-fold) for inhibition of the plant enzyme. All six compounds had substitution patterns that included a phenyl substitution at C3, a tert-butyl substitution at N1 of the pyrazole ring, or both. DAS645 (Figure 1) contained both of these features and was remarkably selective for the plant enzyme. It had an I50 for AtHPPD of 12 nM, whereas no significant inhibition of RnHPPD could be detected at concentrations up to 20 μM DAS645 even with prolonged (3 h) incubation with the enzyme. The compound also had modest levels of herbicidal activity. This ligand was therefore a useful compound to probe the structural basis of plant selectivity.  AtHPPD in Complex with a Plant-Selective Inhibitor. The structure of DAS645 in complex with AtHPPD (AtHPPD−645) was solved and refined to 1.9 Å resolution. The ligand binding site is similar to AtHPPD−869 but with a few notable differences. One such difference is the positioning of the π-stacking network around the benzoyl moiety in AtHPPD−645. Because of the steric presence of the 3-(2,4-dichlorophenyl) substitution on the pyrazole, Phe403 has rotated away from the inhibitor (Figure 3d). This significant movement of Phe403 was not seen in the structures of several enzyme−inhibitor complexes without the 3-phenyl pyrazole substitution (data not shown).  Another significant difference involves the positions of the C-terminal helix (residue 400 and above) of AtHPPD, AtHPPD−869, and AtHPPD−645, which have created a slightly more open active site than the C-terminal helix in RnHPPD−869. Thus, Phe403 is placed further from the center of the active site in the plant enzyme compared to the mammalian enzyme, which can allow larger inhibitor molecules to bind in the plant active site (Figure 7CITATION). This can be demonstrated with a quantitative assessment of the relative positions of the helices in the aligned structures. The structures of AtHPPD−869, AtHPPD−645, and RnHPPD−869 were aligned with the AtHPPD structure, and the rms deviations for the Cα atoms in each helix were calculated and listed in Table 2CITATION. The combined rms deviation for the 58 Cα atoms of the first six helices, Η1−Η6, which are remote from the binding site, are relatively low, under 0.093 Å for all Arabidopsis structures and 0.28 Å for the RnHPPD−869. For the seven Cα atoms of the C-terminal helix Η9, however, the deviations are 0.11−0.23 Å for the Arabidopsis structures and 0.58 Å for RnHPPD−869. Thus, the C-terminal helix is shifted relative to the first six helices in all the structures, but especially in the RnHPPD−869 structure. [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]]  The rat enzyme contains a short five-residue turn (His354 to Gly-358) preceding the C-terminal helix, similar to the PfHPPD enzyme, whereas the Arabidopsis enzyme contains a unique long disordered loop (Val378 to Gly397). The AtHPPD sequence also contains Gly-Gly pairs before and after Cys395, just before the start of the C-terminal helix, that are not present in the rat sequence and could act as hinge regions. Thus, the C-terminal helix of AtHPPD appears to be slightly hinged to the protein, whereas that of the RnHPPD is not.  In both the plant and mammalian HPPD structures, the C-terminal helix packs against another helix, Η7. This is preceded in the Arabidopsis enzyme by a five-residue segment that contains four prolines (315PSPPP319), whereas in the rat enzyme, helix Η7 is preceded by 290AVPS293. This difference leads to the helix Η7 of AtHPPD being dislocated relative to that of the RnHPPD−869 structure. Quantitatively, the rms deviation of the nine Cα atoms of RnHPPD−869 is relatively high, 1.15 Å (Table 2). This may account for the differing positions of the C-terminal helix between plant and mammalian structures.  A network of hydrogen bonds was noted near the C-terminus and active sites of both AtHPPD and RnHPPD−869 consisting of Tyr321, Gln358, Glu373 (M ligand), and Asn402 in the plant enzyme (Figure 8CITATION) and Tyr295, Gln334, Glu349 (M ligand), and Asn363 in the rat enzyme. The tyrosine residue (from helix Η7) forms a direct H-bond with the asparagine from Η9 and can greatly restrict the position of the key adjacent phenylalanine residue (AtHPPD Phe403, RnHPPD Phe364.) The rat enzyme C-terminal helix is held closer to the active site than the plant enzyme C-terminal helix resulting in Cα and Cβ atoms of Phe364 of the rat enzyme being about 1 Å closer to its active site than those of Phe403 in AtHPPD (Figure 7). In order for DAS645 to bind to the rat enzyme, its 3-(2,4-dichlorophenyl) ring would inevitably be much closer to the Cβ atom of Phe364 than it actually is to the Cβ of Phe403 in plant enzyme. The C-terminal helix of rat enzyme would therefore have to move considerably to accommodate the substituted phenyl ring of the inhibitor. This helix rearrangement may be difficult to achieve in the rat enzyme because of the short unhinged turn preceding this helix and the H-bond chain mentioned above. This could explain why DAS645 has very high affinity for the plant enzyme yet undetectable inhibition of the rat enzyme. [[FIGURE]]  An additional contribution to selectivity apparently occurs in a separate region of the active site. Ligands containing an N1-tert-butylpyrazole, such as DAS645 and DAS869, displace the Pro259 ring atoms distally by about 0.5 Å compared to their position in the native AtHPPD structure. In RnHPPD−869, it appears that the equivalent Pro239 cannot be readily repositioned, leaving the region slightly more restricted and the ligand binding site smaller in the rat enzyme (Figure 6). The RnHPPD Pro239 is held in place by adjacent residue Met238. The side chain of this residue is longer than the corresponding plant residue Leu258 and is already tightly packed against the core of highly stable residues such as Ile96, Tyr139, and Tyr200. The main chain of the Η4 helix in the rat enzyme prohibits movement of the other adjacent residue Ile240 in a similar fashion. These steric barriers prevent the rat Pro239 from shifting like the plant Pro259. The rat enzyme must accommodate the N1-tert-butyl group of DAS869 by a displacement of the inhibitor toward the center of the ligand binding site instead.  Summary of Basis for Inhibitor Selectivity. Combining the three key structural differences that were observed, we propose a rationale for the plant selectivity of DAS645 and other plant-selective inhibitors of HPPD. In AtHPPD−869, Phe403 is further away from the metal ion binding site than corresponding Phe364 in RnHPPD−869. AtHPPD also has a more flexible C-terminal helix and more movable Pro259 than the rat enzyme. An inhibitor such as DAS645, containing both an N1-tert-butyl group and a substituted 3-phenyl pyrazole, is able to bind to the metal ion while avoiding steric clashes by relocating Phe403 and displacing Pro259 distally, accommodating the bulky inhibitor in the plant enzyme. In contrast, this same inhibitor will collide with the RnHPPD Phe364 because the inhibitor is displaced toward Phe364 and away from Pro239, while the Phe364 cannot rearrange due to C-terminal helix inflexibility. The size, geometry, and substitution patterns of the inhibitor are key factors in generating its selectivity and these steric barriers can reduce the binding affinity dramatically.  This study has provided a detailed visualization of inhibitor binding to HPPDs from both plant and mammalian sources so provides a new and useful basis for the design of novel herbicides and drugs targeted at HPPD. Our discovery of highly selective inhibitors of the plant enzyme and the subsequent insights into the structural basis of plant selectivity offer unique and powerful tools for the design of agrochemicals with improved toxicological profiles. Similar studies combining detailed structural information with the results from screens for selective inhibitors using other target sites may enable a wider variety of targets that are shared by both pests and vertebrates to be exploited for safer and more effective chemical crop protection. 
!~MM~! HPPD Purification. AtHPPD and RnHPPD were cloned via polymerase chain reaction amplification from appropriate cDNA libraries and overexpressed in Escherichia coli using the T7 expression system (CITATION). Purification and N-terminal amino acid sequencing of native HPPD from maize seedlings indicated that the N-terminus was Ala23 (unpublished data). For expression of the recombinant Arabidopsis enzyme in E. coli, the sequence was therefore truncated by 21 amino acid residues at the N-terminus relative to the coding sequence of the full-length cDNA so that it was equivalent to that of a native plant enzyme.  Cells from 2 L cultures were suspended in 100 mL of 100 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.3, containing 1 mg/mL lysozyme, 1 mM EDTA, and 150 mM sodium chloride. DNase and MgCl2 were then added to final concentrations of 0.02 mg/mL and 2 mM, respectively. The lysed cells were centrifuged at 17 000g for 20 min, and protein was precipitated with 50% saturated ammonium sulfate for AtHPPD. For RnHPPD, the protein fraction precipitating between 35% and 70% ammonium sulfate was used. After centrifugation, the pellet was resuspended in 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.3, and dialyzed overnight against two changes of 3 L of 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.3. The dialyzed extract was centrifuged to clarify and applied to a Pharmacia MonoQ 10/10 column equilibrated in 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.3. For AtHPPD, the column was eluted over 60 min using a 0−60% gradient of 20 mM Tris- HCl, pH 7.3, 0.5 M potassium chloride at a flow rate of 2 mL/min. AtHPPD eluted from the column at approximately 200 mM potassium chloride. For RnHPPD, a gradient of 0−40% 0.5 M potassium chloride over 60 min was used. The enzyme eluted from the column at ∼67 mM potassium chloride. For crystallography, the HPPD fractions were concentrated, applied to two Pharmacia Superose 12 columns connected in series, and concentrated to 20−30 mg/mL.  The Km values of Arabidopsis and rat HPPDs for HPPA were 11 and 13 μM respectively, determined using a radiometric assay protocol based on that of Secor (CITATION).  HPPD Inhibitor Screen. A novel high-throughput HPPD assay was developed to rapidly screen large numbers of inhibitors. This assay coupled the formation of HGA by HPPD to the production of maleylacetoacetate via HGA dioxygenase. This results in an increase in absorbance at 330 nm that permits continuous spectrophotometric monitoring of the reaction in a microplate-based format over at least 20 min. This is particularly informative in assaying slow, tight-binding inhibitors such as the 1,3-diketone inhibitors of HPPD where reaction rates can decrease significantly during the time course of an assay (CITATION). HGA dioxygenase is an excellent coupling enzyme for monitoring the HPPD reaction because it requires the same cofactors as HPPD (Fe2+, ascorbate) and therefore no extra additions to the reaction mix are required.  HGA dioxygenase was partially purified from Alcaligenes xylosoxidans subsp. denitrificans (ATCC 35699). Assays were performed in 96-well plates at 30 °C using a UV/visible plate reader to monitor the formation of maleylacetoacetate at 330 nm (ε330 = 13 500 M-1 cm-1) (CITATION). The assay buffer was 0.1 M MOPS, pH 7, containing 50 μM Fe(NH4)2(SO4)2 and 2 mM sodium ascorbate. Before assays were conducted, HPPD and HGA dioxygenase were preequilibrated in 2× assay buffer for at least 1 h. HPPD activity was measured in an assay mix containing 100 μM HPPA and ∼50 μg of HGA dioxygenase preparation using sufficient HPPD to obtain a reaction rate of ∼15 mOD/min. The amount of HGA dioxygenase activity was predetermined to be in large excess of the HPPD activity to ensure that the reaction was tightly coupled (the Km of HGA dioxygenase for HGA was 25 μM).  Compounds for screening were obtained by MDL ISIS searches of the Dow AgroSciences compound collection using a variety of 1,3-diketone substructures. Compounds were dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide and initially screened at 1, 4, and 16 μM. Selected compounds were also assayed using a preequilibrated format in which HPPD was incubated in the presence of inhibitor for 30 min prior to addition of the appropriate amounts of HGA dioxygenase and HPPA.  Crystallization and Data Collection. Crystallization trials yielded AtHPPD, AtHPPD−869, AtHPPD−645, and RnHPPD−869 crystals via hanging drop vapor diffusion at room temperature. AtHPPD, AtHPPD−869, and AtHPPD−645 crystals grew in 15% poly(ethylene glycol) 4000, 22% 2-propanol, and 100 mM Bis-Tris, pH 6.0, with 16 mg/mL AtHPPD protein in 10 mM Tris, pH 7.3, 20 mM potassium chloride, and 3 mM cobalt chloride. The complexes AtHPPD−869 and AtHPPD−645 were generated by incubating AtHPPD with the appropriate compound for a few hours before crystallization trials. Platelike crystals in monoclinic space group C2 with one molecule per asymmetric unit (unit cell a = 77.4 Å, b = 83.7 Å, c = 63.2 Å, and β = 102.5°) appeared after a few days. The crystals had a solvent content of 33%. Prior to data collection, the crystals were transferred into the crystallization condition with 18% (v/v) ethylene glycol instead of 22% (v/v) 2-propanol. Data collections were conducted at cryogenic temperature.  RnHPPD−869 was prepared by incubation of RnHPPD with DAS869 in the presence of cobalt chloride overnight. The crystals grew in 10% poly(ethylene glycol) 20000, 15% (v/v) hexanediol, and 100 mM Hepes, pH 7.0, with 16 mg/mL RnHPPD−869 complex in the buffer solution of 10 mM Tris, pH 7.5, and 3 mM cobalt chloride. Small crystals formed after two weeks. A microseeding technique was used multiple times to increase the crystal size. The crystal had orthorhombic space group P212121 with two molecules per asymmetric unit (unit cell a = 61.6 Å, b = 107.5 Å, and c = 133.0 Å) and 40% solvent content. RnHPPD−869 crystals were readily frozen without being soaked in a cryoprotectant. The data sets were also collected at cryogenic temperatures. All data collections were carried out on 5.0 kW Rigaku RUH2R generator coupling with MSC Blue multilayer optics and R-AXIS IV++ imaging plate detector. The data were processed with d*TREK data processing program suit (CITATION).  Structure Determination. AtHPPD and RnHPPD−869 structures were solved by multiple isomorphous replacement (MIR). Four heavy atom derivatives of AtHPPD were prepared as described in Table 1CITATION. For subsequent calculation, the CCP4 program suite was utilized (CITATION). The difference Patterson maps of AtHPPD data were calculated to locate the positions of main heavy atom sites. The minor sites were found through the difference Fourier map. The initial MIR phases were calculated at 3.5 Å resolution with the program MLPHARE (CITATION) and had a mean figure of merit of 0.64. MIR maps were improved through the procedures of solvent flattening and histogram matching. The modified MIR was used to build the initial model with the program O (CITATION). Many different heavy atom compounds were soaked into RnHPPD−869 crystals and screened. Methylmercury chloride successfully derivatized RnHPPD−869 crystals, and diffraction data was used in phase determination. Due to the phase ambiguity, single isomorphous replacement phases with the figure of merit of 0.23 were too poor to produce a recognizable electron density map, but its native data collected with high redundancy (Table 1) resulted in the accurate measurement of Bijvoet differences. Three additional metal ions and 10 sulfur sites were found through the anomalous difference Fourier map calculated using the initial SIR phases. The anomalous differences of the native data were added to the phase calculation and refined as a second derivative. Ultimately, the positions of three metal ions and 10 sulfur atoms were used in the phase calculations. SIR phasing has become a typical case of MIR phasing, and the SIR phase ambiguity was easily resolved (CITATION). The new MIR phases produced a well-defined electron density map with the figure of merit of 0.56. [[TABLE]]  The MIR phases were also improved through the procedures of solvent flattening, histogram matching, and density averaging. The chain tracing and sequence matching started from Trp199 and Trp200 and extended in both directions with the program O. The anomalous difference Fourier maps were generated periodically using the updated phases. The anomalous peaks of sulfur atoms served as additional tracing markers (CITATION). The ligand structure was modeled on the basis of inspection of 2Fo − Fc and Fo − Fc electron density maps and anomalous difference Fourier maps. The structures of AtHPPD and RnHPPD−869 were refined with the program REFMAC including the refinement of rigid-body, overall-B factors and individual B-factors, closely monitored by the behavior of the Rfree, Rcryst, and geometry parameters. Successive rounds of rebuilding and refinement were carried out to achieve the final Rcryst's and Rfree's. Because AtHPPD−869 and AtHPPD−645 complexes were crystallized with the same monoclinic space group (C2) as AtHPPD and had very similar unit cells, the rigid-body refinements were sufficient to locate the 3D positions of the protein structure of the complexes when the structure of AtHPPD was used as the initial model. The ligand structures were modeled on the basis of inspection of 2Fo − Fc and Fo − Fc electron density maps. Some adjustments to both the side and main chains were required to make a good match between the model and electron density map. The same procedures used in solving the AtHPPD and RnHPPD−869 structures were used to refine the AtHPPD−869 and AtHPPD−645 structures. 
