!~ABS~! Plant-parasitic nematodes Meloidogyne spp induce an elaborate permanent feeding site characterized by the redifferentiation of root cells into multinucleate and hypertrophied giant cells. We have isolated by a promoter trap strategy an Arabidopsis thaliana formin gene, AtFH6, which is upregulated during giant cell formation. Formins are actin-nucleating proteins that stimulate de novo polymerization of actin filaments. We show here that three type-I formins were upregulated in giant cells and that the AtFH6 protein was anchored to the plasma membrane and uniformly distributed. Suppression of the budding defect of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae bni1Δ bnr1Δ mutant showed that AtFH6 regulates polarized growth by controlling the assembly of actin cables. Our results suggest that AtFH6 might be involved in the isotropic growth of hypertrophied feeding cells via the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton. The actin cables would serve as tracks for vesicle trafficking needed for extensive plasma membrane and cell wall biogenesis. Therefore, determining how plant parasitic nematodes modify root cells into giant cells represents an attractive system to identify genes that regulate cell growth and morphogenesis.
!~RES~! To isolate genes involved in the development of giant cells induced by Meloidogyne incognita, a promoter trap strategy was developed with a promoterless β-glucuronidase (GUS) construct being introduced randomly into the Arabidopsis genome via Agrobacterium tumefaciens T-DNA transformation (CITATION). We screened 20,000 T-DNA–tagged Arabidopsis lines by GUS assay after root-knot nematode infection and identified 200 lines showing GUS induction in root galls. One of the lines, CSQ2, displayed early GUS activity in galls, which was detected <48 h after giant cell initiation (Figure 1A). GUS activity was detected over a 3-week period but was not detected thereafter in fully differentiated giant cells. Cross sections of 7-d-old galls clearly showed GUS staining in the giant cells and in the neighboring cells (Figure 1B). No GUS activity was detected in the cortical cells of the gall. [[FIGURE]] During plant development, GUS expression was observed in differentiating cells of the vascular cylinder just above the root meristem (Figures 1C). GUS activity was also detected in the vascular tissue of the lateral root primordium and in the emerged lateral root (Figures 1D to 1F). GUS staining was observed neither in the root apical meristem nor in the differentiated root. In young seedlings, low levels of promoter activity were also detected in the vascular bundles of leaves and in the stipules (Figures 1G). In the shoots of older plants, GUS activity was restricted to the stipules (Figures 1H). In addition, in etiolated seedlings, GUS activity was detected only in the apical hook and not in the remaining elongated hypocotyl (Figure 1I). The CSQ2 line carried a single T-DNA insert (data not shown). A 0.5-kb genomic DNA fragment adjacent to the right border of the T-DNA was isolated by kanamycin plasmid rescue (CITATION) (Figure 2A). Sequence analysis, using The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR), showed that the T-DNA had integrated into the predicted gene At5g67470 on chromosome 5. The corresponding CSQ2 cDNA was cloned by rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) PCR. The CSQ2 cDNA is 3072 nucleotides long and contains an open reading frame of 899 amino acids (Figure 2A). Comparison of the genomic and cDNA sequences revealed that the CSQ2 gene contained four exons (Figure 2A). Integration of the T-DNA resulted in a 6-bp deletion and the insertion of a 23-bp filler sequence. The T-DNA had inserted into the first exon, 1444 bp downstream from the ATG, placing the ATG of the GUS gene in frame with the csq2 gene, resulting in a functional gene fusion. [[FIGURE]] Analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence of the protein encoded by CSQ2 showed it to be a member of the FH protein family from Arabidopsis identified by in silico analysis (CITATION). It was therefore named A. thaliana Formin Homology protein 6 (AtFH6). The AtFH6 protein bears the two structural features common to FH proteins: a Pro-rich formin homology-1 (FH1; amino acids 317 to 398) domain in front of a conserved C-terminal FH2 domain (amino acids 452 to 899)—the hallmark of members of the formin family (Figure 2B). The FH1 domain of AtFH6 contains 43% Pro, with stretches of three to nine consecutive Pro residues, and two WW binding sequences (P/RPR as shown for the WW domains of the formin binding protein FBP30) (CITATION) separated by a 26–amino acid spacer and several SH3 binding sequences (PxxP) (data not shown). The FH2 domain of AtFH6 was found to display 29 to 69% sequence similarity to the equivalent domains of the other 20 AtFH proteins. Similarity was greatest with AtFH1 (69%; CITATION) and the rice (Oryza sativa) predicted protein AHF1 (71%; BAB86073) (Figure 2B). We investigated the possible relationships between plant FH sequences and between these sequences and those of known FHs from animals and fungi by protein sequence comparison algorithms, such as the neighbor-joining tree method (Figure 2C). The plant FH sequences clustered and formed a lineage distinct from that of fungi, insect, and vertebrate FH members. Plant FHs can be divided into two subfamilies—type I and type II—as previously described for AtFHs (CITATION). The AtFH6, AtFH1, and rice AHF1 proteins clearly belong to the type-I subclass (Figure 2C). Unlike the FH proteins of animals and fungi, such as the budding yeast proteins BNI1p and BNR1p, Drosophila DIA, and mouse and human DIA, no N-terminal FH3 homology domain required for correct targeting (CITATION) or coiled-coil domain were identified in plant formins (Figure 2B). Moreover, the plant FHs characterized to date lack both the GTPase binding domain (GBD) (CITATION) and the diaphanous autoregulatory domain (DAD) (CITATION). These two domains interact to inactivate the formin (CITATION; CITATION). However, AtFH6 and the other type-I plant formins have an N-terminal domain with a putative signal peptide or membrane anchor (amino acids 1 to 24) and a transmembrane domain (107 to 129) adjacent to a second Pro-rich region, suggesting that this protein is targeted for secretion and integration into a membrane (Figure 2B). The region between the signal peptide and the transmembrane domain (amino acids 34 to 82) contains 43% Pro but is not rich in Ser and does not contain the SPPPP motif characteristic of plant cell wall extensin glycoproteins, as described for AtFH1 (CITATION). Interestingly, this Pro-rich sequence contains a PLPPxxPxxPxxPxxPxxP sequence homologous to the WW binding sequence (PPLP as shown for the WW domains of FBP-11) and overlapping SH3 binding sequences, which mediate protein–protein interactions (CITATION). Thus, AtFH6 may exert or regulate its biological functions by interacting with proteins containing SH3 and WW domains via this Pro-rich sequence and/or the FH1 domain. We have characterized the role of AtFH6 in plant development and giant cell formation by isolating plants homozygous for the csq2 mutation. The csq2/csq2 plants were macroscopically not distinguishable from the wild type and developed normally. In addition, after nematode infection, csq2 homozygous mutant plants had a similar number of galls compared with wild-type plants. Giant cell structure and nematode development were also similar to what was observed in wild-type control plants. This lack of a visible phenotype may be because of (1) incomplete loss of protein function, as the N-terminal part of the protein in homozygous plants includes the FH1 domain fused to GUS, or more probably, (2) because of the presence of other AtFH genes with overlapping in their expression patterns, resulting in genetic redundancy. Therefore, we have used gene-specific PCR primers to amplify each predicted transcript of the 21 AtFH genes. RT-PCR analysis showed that only two additional type-I AtFH genes, AtFH1 and AtFH10, were expressed in galls (data not shown). Quantitative RT-PCR showed that AtFH6, AtFH1, and AtFH10 were significantly upregulated in galls 7 and 14 dpi compared with uninfected nonmeristematic root fragments (Figure 2D). No upregulation of AtFH6 and AtFH1 was detected 21 dpi in fully differentiated giant cells. These results confirm the expression pattern of CSQ2 deduced from experiments with the GUS reporter gene and show that three AtFH genes are activated during gall formation induced by root-knot nematodes. The prediction of peptide domains and hydropathy profile determination suggested that AtFH6 is a membrane protein anchored to a plasma membrane or endomembrane. We have localized the AtFH6 protein using a polyclonal antibody (AbAtFH6) directed against part of the C-terminal sequence of the FH2 domain. In protein gel blots with an insoluble microsomal fraction prepared from young seedlings, we detected a single band at ∼99 kD (Figure 3A), consistent with the predicted molecular mass of AtFH6. No signal was detected in cytoplasmic fractions or in microsomal fractions obtained from the homozygous csq2/csq2 plants in which GUS replaced the C-terminal 418 amino acids of AtFH6 (Figure 3A). These results indicate that AbAtFH6 is specific for AtFH6 protein and does not cross-react with the other Arabidopsis FHs. In addition, protein gel blots performed with proteins from highly purified plasma membrane of Arabidopsis cells showed that AtFH6 protein is more abundant in this fraction compared with the endomembranes or the microsomal fraction (Figure 3B). No signal was detected in the cytosolic fraction. [[FIGURE]] Immunolocalization of the protein in galls, using AbAtFH6, confirmed the expression pattern observed with GUS staining (Figures 3C and 3D). The AtFH6 protein was detected only in giant cells and in neighboring cells. AtFH6 was detected only in the plasma membrane of giant cells, and no fluorescence was seen in the typically dense cytoplasm (Figures 3C and 3D). No signal was detected in galls of homozygous csq2/csq2 seedlings (Figure 3E). Immunostaining on sections of actin in giant cells revealed a higher density of actin label in the cell cortex than within the dense cytoplasm (Figure 3F). In root apex, AtFH6 staining was confined to differentiating cells within the vascular cylinder (Figures 3G and 3H), confirming the expression pattern observed with GUS staining. Cross sections showed that the AtFH6 protein was located along the plasma membrane as observed for gall cells. To confirm the AtFH6 subcellular localization, transient expression of fusion proteins with green fluorescent protein (GFP) was performed in protoplasts prepared from Arabidopsis cell suspensions. The green fluorescent signal clearly delineated the plasma membrane associated with the expression of the AtFH6:GFP fusion (Figures 4A and 4D) or the plasma membrane marker p31:GFP fusion (Figures 4B and 4E). GFP fusion with AtNRAMP3, a metal transporter targeted to the vacuolar membrane, led to a fluorescence (Figures 4C and 4F) confined to the tonoplast differently than observed for AtFH6. [[FIGURE]] We investigated the role of AtFH6 in cytoskeleton organization by determining whether AtFH6 functionally suppressed bni1 and bnr1 deficiency in yeast. The FH proteins BNI1p and BNR1p of the budding yeast S. cerevisiae were recently shown to regulate polarized growth by controlling the assembly of actin cables (CITATION; CITATION). We introduced the full-length AtFH6 cDNA, under the control of a galactose-inducible promoter, into a yeast bni1Δ bnr1Δ mutant (HIY11). At the permissive temperature (25°C), HIY11 grew slower than the wild-type K699 strain, but nevertheless cells displayed the budding and wild-type phenotype (Figure 5A). At the restrictive temperature (35°C), all double mutant cells became enlarged (Figure 5D) and were unable to divide, as described by CITATION (Figure 5A). DNA stained by DAPI also confirms that HIY11 cells are often multinucleate, indicating that synthesis and division of nuclear DNAs are not primarily affected (Figure 5E). The bni1Δ bnr1Δ cells containing pYES2, which carried AtFH6 (HIY11#1 and #2), grew at 35°C only in the presence of galactose, indicating suppression of the bni1Δ bnr1Δ phenotype (Figure 5A). Analysis of actin organization showed that, in wild-type cells, actin patches were polarized and mainly restricted to the bud (Figure 5B), whereas actin cables were oriented along the length of the cell (Figure 5C). By contrast, actin patches were randomly distributed in enlarged bni1Δ bnr1Δ cells, with no actin cables apparent (Figure 5F). In HIY#1 and HIY#2 cells, the budding defect and cell enlargement of the bni1Δ bnr1Δ mutant were rescued by suppression at the restrictive temperature (Figures 5G and 5H). In these budding cells, some actin cables were visible in the mother cell, and actin patches were polarized to the bud (Figure 5I). In some suppressed HIY cells, actin patches were still seen in the mother cells (Figure 5J). No growth defect or extra actin cables were detected in wild-type cells producing AtFH6 (WT#1) (Figure 5K), as previously reported after the overproduction of formin protein fragments (CITATION; CITATION). These experiments showed that AtFH6 is functionally similar to yeast FH proteins and that it plays a role in actin cytoskeleton reorganization. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The T-DNA mutagenized Arabidopsis thaliana line collection (ecotype Wassilewskija [Ws]) was generated at Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique Versailles for promoter trap and gene tagging (CITATION). The lines were screened individually for GUS expression after Meloidogyne incognita infection as previously described (CITATION). For in vitro analyses, seeds were surface sterilized and grown on Gamborg B5 medium (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) containing 2% sucrose, 0.8% agar (plant cell culture tested; Sigma), and 50 μg/mL of kanamycin. Plates were inclined at an angle of 60° to allow the roots to grow along the surface. Kanamycin resistance was scored in 2-week-old seedlings. For nematode infection in vitro, 100 surface-sterilized freshly hatched J2 of M. incognita were added on each 2-week-old seedling as described previously (CITATION). The plates were kept at 20°C with a 16-h photoperiod. GUS activity was assayed histochemically with 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronic acid as described by CITATION. Galls, root apex, and shoot apical meristems were dissected from GUS-stained plants, fixed in 1% glutaraldehyde and 4% formaldehyde in 50 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, dehydrated, and embedded in Technovit 7100 (Heraeus Kulzer, Wehrheim, Germany) as described by the manufacturer. Sections (4 μm) were stained with 0.05% ruthenium red and mounted in DPX (BDH Laboratory Supplies, VWR International, Fontenay-sous-Bois, France). Sections were observed with a Zeiss Axioplan 2 microscope (Jena, Germany) using dark-field optics. Kanamycin plasmid rescue of the T-DNA right border flanking sequence was done as described by CITATION. The genomic DNA from transgenic plants was isolated (CITATION), digested by PstI (unique site at the beginning of the nptII gene), and ligated into pResc38 vector. Escherichia coli DH12S cells (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) were transformed with the ligation mixture. Ampicillin and kanamycin selection provided clones containing the complementing region from the T-DNA plus a flanking genomic DNA region. PCR amplification of the T-DNA left border flanking sequences was done with T-DNA oligonucleotides T5 (5′-ctacaaattgccttttcttatcgac-3′) and the gene-specific primer AtFH6 3R (5′-aacgttcattcggtttcccg-3′). Amplification was performed with a cycle of 1 min denaturation at 94°C, 1 min annealing at 58°C, and 2 min extension at 72°C, repeated 35 times, with a final 10 min extension at 72°C using an MJ Research PTC-200 Peltier thermal cycler (Watertown, MA). The amplified fragment was sequenced by Genome Express (Grenoble, France). To isolate csq2/csq2 plants, we analyzed the segregation of the kanamycin marker carried by the T-DNA on progenies resulting from each of 20 selfed plants. Progenies of five plants segregated 100% kanamycin-resistant plants, indicating that they were homozygous for the csq2 allele. To confirm this results, PCR experiments were done with two CSQ2 primers, AtFH6 F3for (5′-agatcgagccactgtttggg-3′) and AtFH6 3R, which span the csq2 T-DNA insertion site, and a third primer (T5) specific for the sequence of T-DNA left border. When genomic DNA from heterozygous CSQ2 plants was used as a template, both a 1447-bp and a 1249-bp band were amplified, indicating the presence of both the mutant and wild-type alleles. By contrast, when DNA from csq2/csq2 plants was used as a template, only the 1447-bp product was obtained from amplifications with all three primers. For RNA analysis on wild-type Arabidopsis, galls were excised 7, 14, and 21 dpi with M. incognita. For comparison, corresponding nonmeristematic root fragments were obtained from uninfected plants. Plant material was frozen in liquid nitrogen immediately after excision and stored at −80°C until use. Poly(A)+ RNA was isolated with a Quickprep Micro mRNA purification kit (Pharmacia P-L Biochemicals, Milwaukee, WI) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The 5′ and 3′ end of the CSQ2 cDNA was obtained by RACE PCR (Invitrogen) with mRNA from the wild-type Arabidopsis ecotype Ws. The primers 5.1R (5′-cagatgctccatcctatcct-3′) and nested 5.2R (5′-cacgggtcggttcaacagttccca-3′) were used for 5′RACE and primers 3.1 (5′-gtatttccacggaaacgctgcgag-3′) and nested 3.2 (5′-ctcggagttctcgataacgtttg-3′) for 3′RACE. PCR products were cloned in pGEM-T vector (Promega, Madison, WI) and sequenced. For RT-PCR analysis of the 20 additional Arabidopsis AtFH gene expression in galls, cDNAs were prepared from 500-ng mRNAs using the Superscript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen). PCR reactions were performed as described above using 10 pmole gene-specific primers deduced from the coding and EST sequences present in the TAIR database. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR was performed using the ABI PRISM 7900HT sequence detection system (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA). Specific primers AtFH6Fw (5′-caagccggaggagatatcagac-3′), AtFH6Rev (5′-gccgtgttctccgactaaacc-3′), AtFH1Fw (5′-tgtttacttctagcctccgcatt-3′), AtFH1Rev (5′-ctaccctcctcctccggc-3′), AtFH10L (5′-tggtcttcaagccacttatatgttt-3′), AtFH10R (5′-tctggcttagatgtcgtgtca-3′), At5g10790L (5′-gccaaagctgtggagaaaag-3′), and At5g10790R (5′-tgtttaggcggaacggatac-3′) were designed from genes sequences using Primer3 software (http://frodo.wi.mit.edu/cgi-bin/primer3/primer3_www.cgi). For each gene amplified, a standard curve was generated from duplicate series of five template dilutions to test PCR efficiencies. For quantification, the tested template was cDNAs from 7, 14, and 21 dpi galls. The reference template was cDNAs from uninfected nonmeristematic root fragments. PCR was conducted in duplicate in the presence of 1 ng of cDNA, 1.2 μL of each primer 2.5 μM, 5 μL of Sybr GREEN master mix, and distilled water to a final volume of 10 μL. PCR conditions were as described above with 10 min at 95°C and 45 cycles at 95°C for 10 s, 55°C for 10 s, and 72°C for 30 s. The results were standardized by comparing the data to reference the endogenous gene UBP22, which remain constant under the different treatment conditions. The quantification of gene expression was performed using the comparative CT method. The BLAST search program (CITATION) was used for sequence analysis and comparisons in the GenBank, EMBL, and SwissProt databases at the National Center for Biotechnology Information (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/cgi-bin/BLAST/) and in TAIR (http://www.arabidopsis.org/blast). Multiple sequence alignments and the unrooted neighbor-joining dendrogram were done with ClustalW (CITATION). The significance of the phylogenetic results was assessed by bootstrap analysis. For protein structure prediction, the following servers were used: ARAMEMNON (http://crombec.botanik.uni-koeln.de/aramemnon/) (CITATION), SignalP version 1.1 (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/SignalP) (CITATION), and PSort (http://psort.nibb.ac.jp). For protein gel blot analysis, 7-d-old seedlings were homogenized in ice-cold extraction buffer consisting of 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.2, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 1% Triton, and protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche Applied Science, Mannheim, Germany). The homogenate was then centrifuged at 2000g for 10 min after which the supernatant was collected into a chilled tube. The supernatant was centrifuged at 100,000g for 1 h to give a soluble fraction and a pellet, the microsomal fraction, dissolved in extraction buffer with Tris-HCl, pH 8.8. Fifty micrograms of protein were analyzed by SDS-PAGE. Extraction method and characterization of the highly purified plasma membrane (PM)–enriched fraction used is described by CITATION. PM-enriched fraction was purified from microsomes by the two-phase partitioning between polyethylene glycol (upper phase containing plasma membrane vesicles) and dextran (lower phase, named endomembrane fraction, containing all the other membranes) (6.4% [w/w]). The purity of membrane preparations was estimated from enzymatic assays and completed by immunological tests using antibodies against antigens specifically associated with various membrane systems. The sensitivity of the Mg2+-ATPase activity to vanadate and KNO3 was used as a marker for the PM and the tonoplast, respectively. Cytochrome c oxidase activity was used as a marker for mitochondria. Immunological tests were performed with antibodies raised against (1) the plasma membrane H+-ATPase of Nicotiana plumbaginifolia, (2) the E37 protein from the inner envelope membrane of spinach (Spinacia oleracea) chloroplast, (3) a tobacco tonoplast protein, (4) the extrinsic protein Nad 9 of the wheat (Triticum aestivum) mitochondrial inner membrane, and (5) the outer membrane protein TOM40 of yeast mitochondria. Twenty micrograms of proteins were analyzed by SDS-PAGE. The anti-AtFH6 mouse polyclonal antibody was produced (Agro-Bio, La Ferté St. Aubin, France) using a peptide corresponding to the last C-terminal 62 amino acids, expressed in E. coli with the pBAD TOPO TA expression kit (Invitrogen). Detections were performed using the ECL protein gel blotting system (Amersham Biosciences Europe, Saclay, France). Anti-AFH6 antibody and horseradish peroxidase–labeled anti-mouse IgG antibody were used at dilutions of 1:500 and 1:2000, respectively. For immunolocalization, uninfected roots and galls of wild-type Ws and csq2/csq2 plants were fixed on 4% paraformaldehyde (Sigma) freshly prepared in Pipes buffer, pH 6.9. After dehydration and embedding in butyl-methylmethacrylate, immunolocalization was performed as described by CITATION. After acetone treatment, sections were incubated in blocking solution (1% BSA in Pipes buffer) and then with the primary antibodies AbAtFH6 or the anti-ACT (ICN, Irvine, CA) diluted 500-fold in blocking solution. After washes, slides were incubated with secondary goat anti-mouse IgG fluorescein isothiocyanate conjugate antibodies (Sigma) diluted 200-fold in blocking solution. Mounted slides were then observed with a Zeiss Axioplan 2 microscope equipped for epifluorescence microscopy, and images were taken with a digital camera (AxioCam; Zeiss). The first exon sequence of AtFH6 was amplified by PCR using Gw5AtFH6-B (5′-aaaaagcaggcttcaccatgaaagctcttcaatccag-3′) and Gw3AtFH6-liter (5′-agaaagctgggtgccgtttctgaggaggtggagg-3′) primers and inserted into the pDONR207 donor vector using Gateway technology (Invitrogen). The C-terminal eGFP fusion was performed into the Gateway expression vector pK7FWG2 (CITATION). The tonoplast marker AtNRAMP3:GFP was kindly provided by S. Thomine. The fusion between the plasma membrane marker P31 and the GFP was described by CITATION. The AtNRAMP3, the P31, and the AtFH6:GFP fusion constructs were transiently expressed in protoplasts from Arabidopsis cell suspensions by polyethylene glycol–mediated transformation as described by CITATION. Thermosensitive strain bni1Δ bnr1Δ (HIY11; Mata, ura3, leu2, trp1, his3, ade2, bni1::HIS3, bnr1::TRP1) and wild-type strain K699 (Mata, ura3-52, leu2-3, -112, trp1-1, ade2-1, can1-100, his3-11, 15, ssd1-Δ2, GAL) were grown on YPD. AtFH6 cDNA was cloned behind the galactose-inductible promoter of the pYES2 plasmid (Invitrogen) using gap repair. The AtFH6 cDNA was amplified using primers GAP5′ (5′-gagaaaaaaccccggatcggactactagcagctgtaatacgactcactatagggaatattatggaagctcttcaatccag-3′) and GAP3′ (5′-gcggatgtggggggagggcgtgaatgtaagcgtgacataactaattacatgatgcggccctcacgtagaagagttgctgc-3′) containing 60 bp of sequence of pYES2 (underlined) for recombination in yeast. Yeast cells were transformed with 1 μg of HindIII/XbaI-linearized pYES2 and 1 μg of PCR-amplified AtFH6 cDNA, as described by CITATION, and plated on complete media lacking uracil and containing glucose (1%). For AtFH6 expression, transformants were transferred into the media containing 1% galactose and 1% fructose. The transformants were grown at 25°C and then spotted in 10-fold serial dilutions onto glucose and galactose-fructose media. Plates were then incubated for 5 d at the permissive (25°C) or restrictive (35°C) temperature for suppression analysis. For actin staining, cells were grown overnight at 25°C in liquid medium containing 1% galactose/1% fructose, diluted to OD600 0.3, and transferred to 35°C for 3 h (sufficient for a doubling). Cells were fixed 1 h with 3.7% formaldehyde (Sigma) and washed twice with PBS. Cells were resuspended in 40 μL of 3.3 μM Alexa568-conjugated phalloidin (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) in PBS and incubated in the dark for 1 h. After two washes in PBS, actin cytoskeleton was visualized using a Deltavision (Applied Precision, Issaquah, WA) deconvolution microscopy system on an Olympus IX-70 microscope (Tokyo) with a 60× NA 1.4 objective. Optical Z-sections (0.1 μm) were taken through the cells. Images were deconvolved using softWoRX, and maximum intensity projections of Z-stacks were performed. The GenBank accession numbers or TAIR locus identifiers for the sequences mentioned in this article are AY337456 (AtFH6), At3g25500 (AtFH1), At3g07540 (AtFH10), At5g62740 (P31), At5g10790 (UBP22), BAB86073 (rice AHF1), AF213695 (NFH1), AF213695 (NFH2), X62681 (chicken FMN), P48608 (Drosophila DIA), U34258 (CAPPUCCINO), P41832 (BNI1p), P40450 (BNR1p), L37838 (FUS1p), O94532 (FOR3p), P78621 (SEPA), AAM15566 (CYK1), XP109355 (mouse DIA1), and O60610 (human DIA1).
