!~ABS~! BRASSINOSTEROID-INSENSITIVE 1 (BRI1) is a Leu-rich-repeat (LRR) receptor kinase that functions as a critical component of a transmembrane brassinosteroid (BR) receptor. It is believed that BRI1 becomes activated through heterodimerization with BAK1, a similar LRR receptor kinase, in response to BR signal. A yeast two-hybrid screen using the kinase domain of BRI1 identified an Arabidopsis thaliana Transthyretin-Like protein (TTL) as a potential BRI1 substrate. TTL interacts with BRI1 in a kinase-dependent manner in yeast and is phosphorylated by BRI1 in vitro. TTL displays a similar expression pattern with BRI1 and is associated with the plasma membrane. Overexpression of the TTL gene results in a phenotype that was observed in weak bri1 mutants and null bak1 mutants. By contrast, two T-DNA insertional mutations in the TTL gene promote plant growth and enhance BR sensitivity. We hypothesized that TTL might directly regulate certain biochemical activities near the plasma membrane to control plant growth.
!~RES~! To identify potential targets of the activated BRI1 receptor kinase in response to BR signal, we conducted a yeast two-hybrid screening using the kinase domain of BRI1 (BRI1CK) as the bait. Out of 96 positive BRI1-interacting clones, 60 were found to be derived from the same Arabidopsis gene (At5g58220) that encodes a hypothetical protein of 324 amino acids. To eliminate the possibility that this hypothetical protein is promiscuous in protein interaction, we performed a specificity test in which its interaction with BRI1 was compared with its interactions with some nonrelevant proteins, including a C-terminal segment of the Arabidopsis phytochrome A (CITATION), an N-terminal fragment of an Arabidopsis NADPH oxidase (CITATION), and the kinase domain of a similar LRR receptor kinase, CLV1, that regulates shoot meristem development (CITATION). As shown in Figure 1A, the newly identified BRI1-interacting protein only interacted with BRI1, but failed to interact with any of the control proteins, suggesting that the observed interaction is BRI1 specific. [[FIGURE]] A database search revealed that the BRI1-interacting protein displays ∼42% sequence identity within its C-terminal half (198 to 324 amino acids) with the vertebrate transthyretin, a thyroid binding protein that is thought to mediate thyroid hormone transfer into target tissues in animals (CITATION) and indirectly implicated in the transport of vitamin A via association with retinol binding protein (CITATION). In human, transthyretin is often associated with amyloidosis (CITATION). Proteins similar to the vertebrate transthyretin, collectively called transthyretin-related proteins (TRPs), were found in a wide variety of species, including bacteria, plants, and animals (CITATION). We named this new BRI1-interacting protein TTL. Whereas all known transthyretins and most TRPs are ∼120 to 130 amino acids long, TTL contains a long N-terminal extension of ∼200 amino acids that is conserved among all known plant TTLs (Figure 1B). A BLAST search against the entire Arabidopsis genome revealed that TTL is a single-copy gene. Because all the TTL clones that were recovered from the yeast two-hybrid screen contained the complete TTL open reading frame (ORF) or lacked no more than three amino acids at the N terminus, we suspected that the N terminus of TTL is important for its interaction with BRI1. To test our hypothesis, we deleted the N-terminal 29 amino acids to create a truncated TTL protein, TTLΔN29, and tested its interaction with the BRI1 kinase domain by the yeast two-hybrid assay. As shown in Table 1, TTLΔN29 failed to interact with BRI1CK, confirming that these 29 amino acids are crucial for the TTL–BRI1 interaction. To determine if such a 29–amino acid peptide is sufficient for binding to BRI1, we made a chimeric protein, TTLN29:BES1, by fusing the 29–amino acid peptide to BES1, a nuclear BR signaling protein that does not interact with BRI1 (CITATION; CITATION). The resulting chimeric protein was then tested by the yeast two-hybrid assay for its interaction with BRI1CK. As shown in Table 1, the TTLN29:BES1 fusion protein did not interact with BRI1CK in yeast cells. These results indicated that whereas the N-terminal 29 amino acids are essential for the TTL–BRI1 interaction, they are not sufficient to bind BRI1. The N-Terminal 29 Amino Acids Are Critical for TTL-BRI1 Interaction Using the yeast two-hybrid assay, we also tested the interaction between TTL with three mutated BRI1CK, each containing a unique single amino acid change that was identified in three mutant bri1 alleles (bri1-101 changes Glu1078 to Lys, bri1-104 mutates Ala1031 to Thr, and bri1-115 substitutes Gly1048 with Asp). Whereas all three bri1 mutations were known to destroy the in vivo function of BRI1 (CITATION), they have different effects on the BRI1 kinase activity. As shown in Figure 2A, bri1-101 completely eliminates and bri1-115 greatly reduces the autophosphorylation activity of an E. coli–expressed glutathione S-transferase (GST)-BRI1CK fusion protein, whereas bri1-104 mutation reduces the kinase activity of GST-BRI1CK by only ∼50%. Results shown in Figure 2B revealed that an active kinase activity was required for the BRI1–TTL interaction. Both bri1-101 and bri1-115 mutations completely abrogate the BRI1–TTL interaction. By contrast, the BRI1CK containing the bri1-104 mutation can still interact with TTL to the same extent as the wild-type BRI1CK. [[FIGURE]] The fact that only the kinase active BRI1CKs were capable of interacting with TTL prompted us to investigate whether TTL might be a substrate for the BRI1 kinase. We fused the full-length TTL with the maltose binding protein (MBP) and expressed the resulting fusion protein in E. coli. After purification, the MBP-TTL fusion protein was mixed with the wild type or the bri1-101–mutated GST-BRI1CK fusion protein and assayed protein phosphorylation. As shown in Figure 2C, the wild-type GST-BRI1CK fusion protein exhibited strong autophosphorylation activity in vitro, whereas no autophosphorylation was detected for the MBP-TTL fusion protein. However, TTL was phosphorylated when the two fusion proteins were mixed together in the kinase assay solution. Because of the similar electrophoretic mobility of the two fusion proteins, only one-fifth of the GST-BRI1CK of the autophosphorylation assay was used in the transphosphorylation assay to clearly reveal the phosphorylated MBP-TTL band. When incubated with the kinase-dead GST-BRI1CK fusion protein, no phosphorylation of TTL was detected, eliminating the possibility that the observed TTL phosphorylation was catalyzed by an unknown E. coli kinase that might be copurified with the GST-BRI1CK fusion protein. No transphosphorylation was detected when the GST-BRI1CK fusion protein was incubated with the MBP alone. Taken together, these in vitro phosphorylation results indicated that BRI1 could phosphorylate TTL in vitro. If BRI1 and TTL interact with each other in vivo, we would expect that their gene expression domains should overlap. RNA gel blot analysis was conducted with total RNAs isolated from various tissues of the wild-type Arabidopsis plants using the full-length TTL cDNA as a probe. As shown in Figure 3A, TTL was expressed in all the tissues that we analyzed, with the flower buds and elongating inflorescence stems accumulating the highest levels of the TTL transcripts. Such a ubiquitous expression pattern was previously observed for both BRI1 and BAK1 genes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The expression of the TTL gene is not regulated by the plant steroids. RNA gel blot analysis of total RNAs, isolated from mock- or brassinolide-treated seedlings of wild-type, two BR-deficient mutants, det2 and cpd, and a strong BR-insensitive bri1 mutant, revealed no detectable difference in the abundance of the TTL transcript between mock- and BR-treated seedlings or between wild-type plants and BR mutants (Figure 3B). To obtain a better picture of tissue specificity of TTL gene expression, we constructed a TTL-β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene by fusing a 1.6-kb genomic fragment containing the native TTL promoter to a GUS reporter gene. As shown in Figures 3C to 3F, the GUS activity was detected mainly in root tips, hypocotyls, leaf primordia, newly expanding young leaves, and vascular tissues of flower organs, which were known to express BRI1 (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Because BRI1 is a transmembrane receptor kinase and TTL is predicted to be a cytosolic protein, a BRI1–TTL interaction would imply that TTL should be a membrane-associated protein. To test our prediction, we translationally fused the full-length TTL at its C terminus with green fluorescent protein (GFP) and used the native TTL promoter to drive the expression of the TTL:GFP fusion protein in Arabidopsis plants. Confocal microscopic analysis of the resulting TTL:GFP transgenic plants revealed a similar green fluorescent pattern between TTL:GFP and BRI1:GFP, indicating that TTL was indeed associated with the plasma membrane (Figure 4A). The association of TTL with the plasma membrane was not influenced by BRI1 activity because no detectable change in the membrane localization pattern of the TTL:GFP fusion protein was observed when the TTL:GFP transgenic seedlings were treated with brassinazole (data not shown), a specific BR biosynthesis inhibitor that prevents the activation of BRI1 (CITATION). The membrane association of TTL was also confirmed by a cell fractionation assay. Membrane proteins of a transgenic TTL:GFP plant were separated from cytosolic proteins by differential centrifugation, these proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE, and the presence of TTL:GFP in the two fractions was detected by immunoblotting using a commercial anti-GFP antiserum. As shown in Figure 4B, both BRI1:GFP and TTL:GFP were mainly in the membrane fraction. By contrast, the GFP itself was exclusively in the cytosolic fraction. Both the gene expression analysis and the protein localization studies strongly suggested that BRI1 could interact with TTL near the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the physiological function of TTL in plant growth, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the TTL gene using its native promoter. The resulting transgenic plants were screened by RNA gel blot analysis for lines that accumulated high levels of the TTL transcript (Figure 5A), which were chosen for phenotypic comparison with the wild-type plants. Interestingly, the TTL-TTL–overexpressing transgenic plants displayed rounder rosette leaves with shorter petioles (Figures 5B and 5D), a phenotype that was previously observed in the bak1 mutant (CITATION; CITATION) and a weak bri1-301 mutant (CITATION), suggesting that TTL might function as a negative regulator to modulate BR-mediated plant growth. As shown in Figure 5C, overexpression of the TTL gene also led to an ∼20% reduction in hypocotyl length when grown in complete darkness or under a short-day (8-h-light/16-h-light) growth condition. The most striking phenotype was the height of the adult plants. As indicated in Figure 5D, the height of TTL overexpression transgenic plants of 4 weeks old (TTL OE3) was only ∼40% of that of the wild-type plants of the same developmental age. [[FIGURE]] Further support for a negative role of TTL in modulating plant growth came from the analysis of two independent ttl T-DNA insertional mutants, ttl-1 and ttl-2, which were identified from a population of ∼140,000 transgenic Arabidopsis plants (in the Wassilewskija [Ws] ecotype) using a PCR-based reverse-genetic approach (CITATION). The ttl-1 mutant contains a single T-DNA insertion in the 117th codon downstream from the presumed start codon, whereas the ttl-2 has a single T-DNA insertion at the 15th base pair upstream of the suspected initiation codon (Figure 6A). RNA gel blot analysis with RNAs isolated from the two insertional mutants and the wild-type control plants revealed that both insertions led to a complete disappearance of the TTL transcripts, suggesting that the two T-DNA insertional mutations are null (Figure 6B). The two ttl knockout mutants were carefully examined for any phenotypic difference from the corresponding Ws wild-type controls. Consistent with a negative role for regulating plant growth, the two ttl mutants were bigger than the wild-type plants of the same developmental age with larger rosette leaves and longer petioles. However, they were different than the transgenic plants overproducing BR or BRI1 (CITATION; CITATION) that are characterized by narrow leaves with elongated petioles, suggesting that TTL is not a major signaling component to transduce the plant steroid signal into the nucleus but plays a role in regulating a subset of BR responses. The hypocotyls of dark-grown ttl mutants were longer than those of the corresponding wild-type controls (Figure 6D). Consistent with the observed size difference between the ttl-1 mutants and the wild-type plants, the mature ttl mutants were much taller than the wild-type plants of the same developmental age and their leaves have longer petioles (Figures 6E and 6F). [[FIGURE]] To examine a potential role of TTL in modulating BR-mediated plant growth, we crossed a 35S-TTL transgenic line, which is phenotypically similar to TTL-OE1 or TTL-OE3 transgenic plants, with a BRI1-overexpressing transgenic line that displays longer and narrower rosette leaves compared with the wild-type plants, a characteristic phenotype for increased BR production or enhanced BR signaling (CITATION; CITATION). If TTL functions as a negative regulator in BR-mediated cell growth, its overexpression could suppress the BRI1-overexpressing phenotype. Indeed, the resulting F2 transgenic plants homozygous for both transgenes displayed wider and shorter rosette leaves than the BRI1-overexpressing transgenic plants (Figure 7A). Similar to the previous hypocotyl measurement of the TTL-TTL transgenic plants, the hypocotyl lengths of the double transgenic line were 77 and 62% of the BRI1-overexpression line when grown in the dark and under short-day growth conditions, respectively (Figure 7B). Consistent with these overexpression results, the ttl-1 mutants are partially resistant to brassinazole, which was known to inhibit BR biosynthesis (CITATION) and prevents BRI1 activation (CITATION). As shown in Figure 7C, the brassinazole treatment resulted in a strong dwarf morphology of wild-type seedlings but induced a weak BR-deficient phenotype on the ttl-1 mutants. As a control, transgenic plants overexpressing the BRI1 gene were quite resistant to the dwarfing effect of the BR inhibitor. This result suggested that the elimination of TTL could partially compensate for the reduced BRI1 activity caused by the inhibition of BR biosynthesis. [[FIGURE]] Further support for a role of ttl in BR-mediated growth response came from two root-growth inhibition assays. Seeds of a TTL overexpression transgenic line, the ttl-1 mutant, and their corresponding wild-type controls were germinated and grown on synthetic medium containing different concentrations of brassinolide for 7 d, and their root lengths were measured. As shown in Figure 7C, the root growth of the TTL-OE3 plants was less inhibited by 1 and 10 nM concentrations of brassinolide than that of the wild-type controls, indicating a reduced BR sensitivity for the TTL-TTL transgenic plants. By contrast, the ttl-1 mutant was more sensitive to brassinolide compared with its wild-type control, especially at low concentrations. As shown in Figure 7D, the most dramatic difference between ttl-1 mutants and the corresponding Ws wild-type seedlings was seen at 0.1 nM brassinolide, which had virtually no effect on the root growth of the wild-type seedlings but inhibited the root elongation of the ttl-1 mutants by ∼30%.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was used as the wild-type plants for generating transgenic plants and phenotype comparison. The ecotype Ws (Ws-0) was the wild type for phenotypic comparison with the ttl knockout mutants. The methods for seed sterilization and germination for plant growth were described in CITATION. Detailed methods for the yeast two-hybrid library screen were described previously (CITATION). Putative BRI1-interacting clones were screened by growth on the synthetic medium lacking His but containing 50 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazol and confirmed by blue color on medium containing the 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-galactoside. pACT2-TTLΔN29 was constructed by deleting an 87-bp HpaI restriction fragment from the pACT2-TTL construct that contains the full-length TTL ORF. The yeast cells were transformed using the TRAFO method (http://www.umanitoba.ca/faculties/medicine/biochem/gietz/Trafo.html). Overnight cultures of yeast cells in selective medium were transferred to fresh YPD medium (containing 20 g/L peptone, 10 g/L yeast extract, and 2% [v/v] glucose) and grown at 30°C until the cells were in the mid-log growth phase (OD600 = 0.5 to 0.8). Yeast cells were broken by the freeze/thaw method and incubated with chlorophenol red-β-d-galactopyranoside in a reaction mixture containing 100 mM Hepes, pH 7.25, 150 mM NaCl, 22.5 mM l-aspartate, 1% (w/v) BSA, and 0.05% (v/v) Tween 20. Reactions were terminated by adding 3 mM ZnCl2, and the color change of the reaction was monitored at 578 nm using a Beckman DU520 UV/Vis spectrophotometer (Beckman Coulter, Fullerton, CA). One unit of β-galactosidase activity is defined as the amount of the enzyme that hydrolyzes 1 μmole of chlorophenol red-β-d-galactopyranoside to chlorophenol red and d-galactose per minute per cell. The cytoplasmic kinase domain of BRI1 and the full-length TTL ORF were cloned into the pGEX-KG vector (CITATION) and the pMAL-c2 vector (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA) for producing GST and MBP fusion proteins, respectively. Fusion protein induction and purification were performed according to the manufacturer's protocol (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ for the GST-BRI1CK fusion proteins and New England Biolabs for the MBP-TTL fusion proteins). In vitro kinase assays were performed at 25°C for 60 min in a 20-μL reaction mixture containing 50 mM Hepes, pH 7.4, 10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM MnCl2, 1 mM DTT, 50 μM cold ATP, and 0.5 μL of [γ-32P]ATP (3000 Ci/mmole; ICN Biomedicals, Irvine, CA) with the approximately same amount of purified proteins determined by Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining. Kinase reactions were terminated by adding 5 μL of SDS sample buffer (0.35 M Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 30% glycerol [v/v], 10% SDS [w/v], 0.6 M DTT, and 0.012% bromophenol blue [w/v]) and boiled for 3 min, and proteins were separated by a 8% SDS-PAGE. Gels were stained with Coomassie blue to reveal the amount of proteins and exposed to Kodak Biomax x-ray films (Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, NY) to visualize phosphorylated bands. A 1.6-kb genomic fragment containing the TTL promoter sequence was amplified from the Arabidopsis genomic DNA and cloned into a modified pPZP222 binary vector (CITATION) that contains the Escherichia coli GUS coding sequence. The resulting pPZP222-TTL-GUS construct was then transformed into wild-type Arabidopsis plants. Histochemical analysis of the GUS reporter gene was performed as described (CITATION) with T2 TTL-GUS transgenic plants of different developmental ages. After staining, samples were rinsed sequentially with 50 mM potassium phosphate, pH 7.0, acetic acid/methanol (1:3 [v/v]), and 70% (v/v) lactic acid to remove the chlorophyll and cytoplasm, allowing visualization of GUS staining of plant samples. The construct, pPZP212-BRI1-BRI1:GFP, used for generating BRI1:GFP transgenic plants was described previously (CITATION). To generate TTL-TTL:GFP transgenic plants, we first fused the full-length TTL ORF with the GFP sequence in the pAVA393 vector (CITATION) and cloned the resulting TTL:GFP fusion gene into the pPZP212 vector (CITATION) that contains the 1.6-kb TTL promoter sequence to generate the pPZP212-TTL-TTL:GFP fusion construct. Both fusion constructs were transformed into Arabidopsis plants by the Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated method. Subcellular localization patterns of BRI1, TTL, and GFP alone were revealed by examining the green fluorescence patterns in the root elongation region right above the root apical meristem of 4-d-old vertically grown seedlings of transgenic lines containing a pPZP212-BRI1-BRI1:GFP, a pPZP212-TTL-TTL:GFP, or a 35S-GFP fusion construct using a Zeiss LSM510 confocal microscope (Jena, Germany) filtered with an FITC10 set (excitation 488 nm and emission 505 to 530 nm and 530 to 560 nm). Cytosolic and microsomal fractions are separated according to the method previously reported (CITATION) with modifications. One-week-old seedlings were homogenized in the hypertonic buffer (0.5 M sucrose, 50 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, 0.6% polyvinylpolypyrrolidone, and 5 mM ascorbic acid). After centrifugation at 10,000g for 20 min, crude extracts were centrifuged at 60,000g for 60 min. Supernatant was recovered as cytosolic fraction, and the pellet was resuspended in 5 mM potassium phosphate, pH 7.8, buffer containing 0.33 M sucrose and 3 mM KCl as microsomal fraction. All the procedures were performed at 4°C. Protein concentration was determined using the Bradford method, and the same amount of proteins for each sample were separated by SDS-PAGE, blotted onto a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane, and analyzed by immunoblotting with anti-GFP antibodies. Total RNAs were extracted from various tissues of 28-d-old soil-grown Arabidopsis plants or 10-d-old seedlings grown on synthetic medium as described previously (CITATION). For RNA gel blot analysis, 5 μg of total RNAs were separated by a 1% formaldehyde-agarose gel, transferred to a Hybond-XR membrane (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Piscataway, NJ), and hybridized with a full-length TTL or 18s rDNA probe at 42°C for 22 h in a solution of 50% formamide (v/v), 250 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.4, 1 mM EDTA, 1% casein, and 7% SDS (w/v).
