!~ABS~! Plants can grow straight or in the twisted fashion exhibited by the helical growth of some climbing plants. Analysis of helical-growth mutants from Arabidopsis has indicated that microtubules are involved in the expression of the helical phenotype. Arabidopsis mutants growing with a right-handed twist have been reported to have cortical microtubules that wind around the cell in left-handed helices and vice versa CITATION. Microtubular involvement is further suspected from the finding that some helical mutants are caused by single amino acid substitutions in α-tubulin and because of the sensitivity of the growth pattern to anti-microtubule drugs. Insight into the roles of microtubules in organ elongation is anticipated from analyses of genes defined by helical mutations CITATION. We investigated the helical growth of the Arabidopsis mutant tortifolia1/spiral2 (tor1/spr2), which twists in a right-handed manner, and found that this correlates with a complex reorientation of cortical microtubules. TOR1 was identified by a map-based approach; analysis of the TOR1 protein showed that it is a member of a novel family of plant-specific proteins containing N-terminal HEAT repeats. Recombinant TOR1 colocalizes with cortical microtubules in planta and binds directly to microtubules in vitro. This shows that TOR1 is a novel, plant-specific microtubule-associated protein (MAP) that regulates the orientation of cortical microtubules and the direction of organ growth.
!~RES~! During leaf expansion, tortifolia1 (tor1) mutants show a striking twisting of leaf petioles, and this twisting results in a consistent right-handed displacement of the leaf blade CITATION. This phenotype served as a template for screening an ethane methylsulfonate-generated mutant collection. We isolated left-handed and right-handed helical-growth mutants representing several complementation groups, but all tor1 alleles showed right-handed organ twisting. Additional tor1 alleles, including spiral2 (spr2) CITATION, were obtained from other researchers and included in the investigation (see Table S1). Analysis of petiole growth showed that the twisting phenotype of tor1 is not expressed before the onset of cell elongation-driven organ growth (Figures S1A–S1E in the Supplemental Data available with this article online). Similarly, tor1 hypocotyls were straight and indistinguishable from those of the wild-type in the early stages of organ growth (up to 4 days after germination [DAG]), but organ twisting became manifest during continued elongation growth; it started to appear at 5 DAG and was strongly expressed by 18 DAG CITATION . Because Gendreau et al. CITATION have established that hypocotyl growth in Arabidopsis is almost exclusively based on cell elongation, this organ was chosen as more amenable material for the cell-biological analysis. Drug studies and morphological analyses have been carried out for the tor1/spr2 mutant CITATION, but no microtubule (MT) phenotype has been demonstrated. In the present paper the orientation of MTs in tor1 hypocotyls was analyzed by immunofluorescence CITATION. During hypocotyl growth the angles of MTs beneath the outer epidermal walls were measured at 4 DAG, before the onset of twisting, and at 7 DAG, when twisting was apparent. Measurements were made relative to the long axis of the cell (Experimental Procedures). MTs perpendicular to that axis were categorized as transverse; values less than this had left-handed orientations, whereas larger values were classed as right handed. In the wild-type, it will be seen from CITATION that MT orientations of similar frequencies were spread over a broad range at 4 DAG (approximately from 50° to 130°), with MTs forming transverse as well as left-handed and right-handed helices. By 7 DAG this had evolved into a bimodal distribution, with more clearly resolved populations of left- and right-handed arrays CITATION. This variability of array orientation is typical for aerial organs and has been reported for a variety of species CITATION; it differs from the uniformity of the transverse MT arrays observed in the elongation zone of Arabidopsis roots CITATION. In comparison to those of wild-type hypocotyls, tor1 MTs at 4 DAG show a remarkably sharper peak that indicates MTs to be more restricted to transverse and moderately oblique orientations CITATION. By 7 DAG, most of the MT angles were less than 90°, showing that—in comparison to the equal split between left- and right-handed orientations seen in the wild-type—there was a pronounced bias toward left-handed arrays in tor1 CITATION. To provide a quantitative estimation of how MT orientations relate to the direction of cell elongation, we took mean values. At 4 DAG tor1 and wild-type mean orientations were 87.4° and 93.0°, respectively. Statistical analysis proved the difference to be significant (p < 0.01). At 7 DAG, tor1 and wild-type mean orientations were 66.2° and 92.9°, respectively; the difference was statistically significant (p < 0.0001). It was concluded that MTs of tor1 cortical arrays are disoriented relative to the wild-type control and that, by 7 DAG, MTs with left-handed positions strongly outweigh MTs with right-handed or transverse orientations. The fact that a MT phenotype—the narrowed MT distribution and a slight but distinct left-handed shift—can be detected at 4 DAG when tor1 hypocotyls have not begun twisting suggests that the MT reorientation is not a side effect of twisted growth and that MTs might have a more causal role in expression of the helical phenotype. In this case, the left-handed offset in the MTs of tor1 hypocotyls at 4 DAG could be the precursor of the more steeply pitched left-handed helices evident at 7 DAG. The relationship between MTs and the direction of cell growth is usually explained by assuming that MTs act as templates for the deposition of the load-bearing cellulose microfibrils of the cell wall, with cells elongating perpendicularly to transversely wound cellulose. A recent study CITATION has used this model to explain helical growth in spiral mutants (however, the exact role of MTs in cellulose deposition is currently under debate; see CITATION and CITATION for opposite views). According to Furutani et al. CITATION, expansion perpendicular to cellulose laid down in left-handed helices would result in right-handed growth, and vice versa. Another explanation is that a helix “unwinds” in the opposite direction as it is stretched so that a wall laid down with a left-handed helical pitch would unwind with a right-handed twist as the cell elongates CITATION. To investigate the TOR1 gene further, we identified the TOR1 locus by fine mapping and complementation. TOR1 was previously assigned to a central region of chromosome 4 CITATION. We applied published markers (PG11, pCITd76) and additional PCR-based markers (Experimental Procedures) to locate TOR1 to a 111 kb region covered by the BAC clones T24A18 and F21F11 CITATION . Restriction fragments of partially HindIII-digested BAC clones were subcloned into the cosmid vector pBIC20 CITATION. After transformation of several overlapping cosmids, three cosmids were found to complement the tor1 mutation CITATION. Together with overlapping noncomplementing cosmids, these experiments indicated that a single gene, At4g27060, codes for TOR1 CITATION. Sequencing of At4g27060 from tor1 alleles revealed mutations leading to premature termination of the predicted protein and/or disruption of the TOR1 open reading frame (Table S1 and CITATION), suggesting that helical growth in tor1 results from the absence of a functional TOR1 protein (loss of function). Sequencing the TOR1 cDNA (Experimental Procedures) confirmed the splice site predictions for At4g27060 CITATION. However, 5′ RACE defined the actual 5′ end of the TOR1 message to be 193 nucleotides upstream of the annotated translational start. When compared to the annotated gene, the deduced protein shows an N-terminal extension of 38 amino acids; the 5′ untranslated leader has a length of 79 bp CITATION. Northern experiments revealed a single message of 3.0 kb. The TOR1 message was detected in all organs examined, including roots, stems, inflorescences, petioles, and leaves. When compared to ubiquitin as an internal standard, TOR1 gene expression appeared to be low and uniform (data not shown), with slightly stronger expression in the inflorescence CITATION. The predicted TOR1 protein is 864 amino acids in length, with a molecular mass of 94.0 kDa and a pI of 5.47. BLAST searches against nonredundant GenBank entries revealed that TOR1 has high homology (51% identical amino acids) to the potato HIP2 protein, which was reported to bind to the helper-component proteinase from potyvirus CITATION. No function was assigned to the HIP2 protein. Our BLAST searches indicated TOR1 homologs exclusively in the plant kingdom (e.g., in monocotyledonous plants such as rice and in the moss Physcomitrella patens). In Arabidopsis, TOR1 constitutes a novel family of six conceptual Arabidopsis proteins relating to the genes At1g50890, At2g07170, At1g27210, At1g59850, At5g62580, and At4g27060 CITATION . The closest Arabidopsis homolog of TOR1, AAG50927 from At1g50890, shows 50% identical amino acids. Homology searches with the TOR1 sequence via the standard BLAST algorithm revealed no significant homology to proteins of known function, but PSI-BLAST searches CITATION indicated a distant but obvious homology to HEAT repeat-containing proteins, such as Tor1 and Tor2 ( t arget o f r apamycin) from yeast, importin-β, and protein phosphatase 2A. HEAT repeat domains are capable of mediating protein-protein interactions. A similarity of TOR1 with HEAT repeat proteins was supported by the IMPALA block-searcher algorithm CITATION. TOR1 sequence comparisons based on hidden Markov models CITATION yielded best results for proteins with HEAT, but also for proteins with ARM repeats. HEAT repeats and the evolutionarily related ARM repeats can be detected by the REP search algorithm CITATION. Sequences from individual TOR1 family members do not yield above-threshold values when they are analyzed with this program. However, significant matches were obtained after consensus sequences (generated by BlockMaker CITATION) from the TOR1 family were applied to the REP search algorithm. Comparing the REP outputs for consensus sequences with the output for the simple TOR1 sequence enabled us to detect at least five consecutive HEAT repeats in the TOR1 N-terminal region. We used the same method to detect HEAT repeats in the other TOR1 family members CITATION. Two other regions of elevated conservation are found in the TOR1 protein as compared to the Arabidopsis family members CITATION. One of these, the central conserved region of TOR1, is predicted to form a coiled-coil structure according to the COILS program CITATION. The MultiCoil program CITATION verified this for the closer homologs of TOR1 (proteins from At1g50890 and At2g07170). The predicted coiled-coil region in TOR1 spans the amino acids 510–560 and appears to contain a single stutter CITATION. To determine the subcellular localization of the TOR1 protein, we synthesized a full-length TOR1 cDNA by RT-PCR, coupled it to GFP, and used it to transform plants and suspension cells (Experimental Procedures). TOR1-GFP labels cortical MTs in epidermal cells of transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings CITATION . To establish that TOR1-GFP is a functional protein, we demonstrated that its CaMV 35S-driven expression complements homozygous tor1 plants CITATION. In order to study the distribution of TOR1-GFP during the cell cycle, we transformed tobacco BY-2 suspension cells. TOR1-GFP labels the four-plant MT arrays CITATION. However, because only the decoration of the cortical MTs CITATION is relevant to the tor1 phenotype, which is expressed during the elongation phase of G1, it is not clear that these other labeling patterns are indicative of a function for TOR1 during cell division. In principle, decoration of cortical microtubules by TOR1-GFP in vivo could be direct or indirect via another protein. To address this question, we expressed TOR1-His in a yeast expression system and performed pull-downs with taxol-stabilized MTs over a sucrose cushion. CITATION shows that the approximately 95 kDa TOR1-His protein copurified with MTs (lane 3). In controls, TOR1-His did not precipitate by itself in the absence of MTs. A dummy His-tagged protein, UDP-glucose transferase (At4g15550), also did not pellet with MTs (data not shown). This confirms that TOR1 directly binds MTs, which together with the in vivo localization indicates that TOR1 can be classified as a microtubule-associated protein. SPR1/SKU6, a protein revealed by another helical-growth mutant, also decorates cortical MTs as a GFP fusion gene, but it does not bind to MTs in vitro, implying that it is not a microtubule-associated protein (MAP) and must bind via another protein CITATION. However, the additive phenotype of the double spr1/tor1 mutant CITATION does not provide positive evidence for a possible interaction between SPR1 and TOR1. Other recently discovered plant MAPs have been found to be related to those in other eukaryotes; MAP65 is related to PRC1 of metazoa (and yeast Ase1p, CITATION), whereas MOR1 is related to the ch-TOG/XMAP215 family CITATION. However, simple BLAST searches with the TOR1 sequence do not reveal significant matches with proteins of known function. All obvious TOR1 homologs are plant sequences; the nearest hypothetical, non-plant relative was found in Dictyostelium discoideum (AA050914) but had a BLAST E-value of only 1e−04. It would therefore appear that TOR1 is a plant-specific microtubule-associated protein, which is consistent with its role in regulating the plant cell's characteristic cortical MT array. TOR1, in the wild-type, is evidently responsible for maintaining straight growth, which in the hypocotyls is associated with a mixture of left- and right-handed MT helices. In the mutant, left-handed MT arrays predominate, and so the function of TOR1 would seem to suppress this tendency and to allow the formation of right-handed arrays. Other factors that impact upon MTs also induce helical growth. For example, microtubule organization1 (mor1) mutations, the MT-stabilizing plant metabolite taxol, and the destabilizing herbicide, propyzamide, can all phenocopy the helical-growth patterns CITATION. A common thread among these diverse agents is their potential for affecting MT stability and turnover, and so it is possible that TOR1 controls the direction of growth via an effect on MT dynamics, although how this is translated into information on the helical sign is an open question. In conclusion, our results show that TOR1 is a cytoskeletal protein found in plants and has no obvious homologs in the animal kingdom. In tor1 mutants, the right-handed twisting of the hypocotyl is preceded by a shift in cortical microtubule orientation. Recombinant TOR1 proteins bind microtubules in vivo and in vitro. These results indicate that TOR1 is a novel cytoskeletal player required for wild-type cortical microtubule orientation. TOR1 functions as a microtubule-associated protein whose mutation results in a switch from straight growth to a twisted phenotype.
!~MM~! Mutants displaying the tortifolia phenotype were identified in an ethane methylsulfonate-mutagenized Landsberg erecta population; additional alleles were obtained from other researchers (Table S1). For allelism tests (mutants tor1-1 to tor1-8) mutants were crossed, and segregation of phenotypes was followed up to the F2 generation. These tor1 mutations are inherited as recessive traits. Insertional mutants of At4g27060 (TOR1) identified in the SALK collection CITATION showed tortifolia phenotypes; DNA sequencing confirmed insertion into the TOR1 gene (Table S1). No allelic series was observed for tor1 alleles 1–9; in contrast, tor1-10 shows less strong petiole twisting. tor1-1 (N378) and tor1-5 (N258) are available from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Center. The method of analyzing DNA duplices on high-resolution gels CITATION allowed the identification of several polymorphisms in the TOR1 region on chromosome 4 (markers LT2, LT7, LT11, and F23K2L). Markers LT5 and 3E9_LE are of SSLP and CAPS types, respectively. Screening of 1600 tor1 progenies from crossings between tor1-1 and Ler indicated that TOR1 localizes between the markers LT5 and LT7. For locating TOR1 within this region, 12 to 22 kb fragments from partially HindIII-digested BAC-DNA (T24A18 and F21F11) were cloned into the pBIC20 cosmid vector CITATION. Cosmids propagated in E. coli NM554 were analyzed by PCR markers and restriction digests. A contig of overlapping cosmids spanning the TOR1 region was established. After electroporation into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (pGV3101/pMP90), cosmids were transformed into tor1 plants via floral dip CITATION. Transgenic plants were selected on agar plates containing 50 μg/ml kanamycin. Confirmation of complete T-DNA transfer was achieved by GUS staining CITATION. T2 plants were analyzed for segregation of wild-type and tor1 phenotypes. For Northern analysis CITATION, 20 μg total RNA per lane were separated on 1% agarose gels containing formaldehyde and transferred to a nylon membrane (Amersham). A TOR1-specific probe was generated by PCR with 5′-TCTCTCACCAGACTCTGCTTC-3′ and 5′-TCCAGATGCTTTATTATCCCACC-3′. After random primed labeling with [33P]dATP, hybridizations were carried out with formamide. Signals were detected with the FLA-3000 phosphoimager (Fuji). For analysis of the TOR1 5′ end by 5′ RACE, the TOR1-specific oligonucleotide 5′-AAAGCTTTTGGAAAGAAGTAACTGG-3′ was used for priming the reverse transcriptase reaction (Gibco BRL). Two rounds of nested PCRs were performed. The 5′ TOR1 fragments obtained were cloned. The DNA sequence of nine independent clones pointed to the same transcriptional start of TOR1. A full-length TOR1 cDNA was synthesized from Arabidopsis Columbia RNA by RT-PCR with 5′-GAGAGCGGTCGACGTCGGAGATTTAGAAATGAGCAC-3′ and 5′-CTGTCTGGTCGACAATTATGAACAACAACGGTACTGAAG-3′ and cloned into a pUC19 derivative. This construct served for downstream cloning reactions. The ORF of TOR1 was PCR amplified without a stop codon via GATEWAY adaptor oligonucleotides and recombined into pDONR221 (Invitrogen). Subsequently, TOR1 was recombined into pK7FWG2 CITATION to allow expression of a fusion with GFP linked to the C terminus of TOR1 under the control of CaMV 35S promoter. Arabidopsis plants were transformed with Agrobacterium by floral dip. Tobacco BY-2 cells were transformed by coincubation with Agrobacterium for 2 days, followed by several washes with BY2-medium and selection on agar plates containing kanamycin (200 μg/ml), carbencillin (500 μg/ml), and rovral (20 μg/ml). For expression of TOR1-His in yeast (strain INVSc1), the TOR1 cDNA was excised from the pUC19 derivate and ligated into pYES2 (Invitrogen). An oligonucleotide encoding six His residues was attached to the TOR1 3′ end by PCR cloning. The fusion protein was expressed by galactose-induction and extracted by the glass-bead method (pYES2 manual, Invitrogen). TOR1-His was pelleted from protein preparations supplemented with 10 mM EGTA (final concentration) and 20 μM taxol (final concentration; Sigma) through a 40% (w/v) sucrose cushion with taxol-stabilized MTs (final concentration 0.5 mg/ml bovine tubulin; Cytoskeleton) as described by Chan et al. CITATION. For identification of His-tagged proteins after Western transfer, blots were probed with the INDIA HisProbe-HRP (Pierce). Wild-type (Enkheim) and tor1-1 were grown on soil with a 16/8 hr day/night cycle. Seedlings were picked with tweezers, and the roots were cut off. Fixation and opening of the tissue were performed as described by Wasteneys et al. CITATION. MT labeling was achieved with monoclonal anti-α-tubulin (T 9026, Sigma) and Alexa Fluor 488 goat anti-mouse IgG (A-11001, Molecular Probes). After labeling, tissues were mounted in Vectashield (H-1000, Vector Laboratories) and analyzed with a confocal microscope (Zeiss LSM 510). Projections of Z scans (AIM software, versus 3.0; Carl Zeiss Jena) converted to JPEG format (with Adobe Photoshop 7.0) were used for measuring the angle of MTs with respect to the cell's longitudinal axis via the ImageJ 1.30t program (Wayne Rasband, National Institutes of Health). Only MTs from outer tangential walls of epidermal cells were used for quantification. All cells taken for measurement were from the upper half of the hypocotyl, i.e., ≤ 700 μm (4 DAG) and ≤ 1450 μm (7 DAG) below the petiole junction. MTs in an array generally shared the same direction. However, for estimation of the mean orientation of a given cortical array, a line was drawn down the cell, and the angle of MTs was measured at eight regular points for 4 DAG seedlings. For the longer cells in 7 DAG seedlings, 12 points were taken. MT angles were measured at >750 points from >125 cells for both wild-type and tor1 at 4 DAG stage and at >620 points from >100 cells for both wild-type and tor1 at 7 DAG stage. Statistical analysis of MT orientations was performed with both nonparametric and parametric tests (Rank Sum test and t test, respectively) with the SAS package (SAS Institute Inc.). The p values given in the text relate to the output of both tests. One supplemental table and one supplemental figure are available with this article online at http://www.current-biology.com/cgi/content/full/14/16/1515/DC1/.
