!~ABS~! The stable, recessive Arabidopsis variegated 3 (var3) mutant exhibits a variegated phenotype due to somatic areas lacking or containing developmentally retarded chloroplasts and greatly reduced numbers of palisade cells. The VAR3 gene, isolated by transposon tagging, encodes the 85.9 kDa VAR3 protein containing novel repeats and zinc fingers described as protein interaction domains. VAR3 interacts specifically in yeast and in vitro with NCED4, a putative polyene chain or carotenoid dioxygenase, and both VAR3 and NCED4 accumulate in the chloroplast stroma. Metabolic profiling demonstrates that pigment profiles are qualitatively similar in wild type and var3, although var3 accumulates lower levels of chlorophylls and carotenoids. These results indicate that VAR3 is a part of a protein complex required for normal chloroplast and palisade cell development.
!~RES~! The var3 phenotype was identified in a population of stable transposants generated with a Ds gene trap (CITATION). var3 was inherited as a recessive allele that co-segregated with kanamycin resistance carried on the Ds element. var3 displayed normal skotomorphogenesis, and the cotyledons developed normally in the light, but the first true leaves exhibited variegation seen as yellow areas (compare Fig. 1A and B). This variegation became indistinct in older leaves so that the only phenotypic difference compared with wild type (Ler) at flowering was pale flower bud sepals in var3 (Fig. 1D and E). Variegation in var3 differed from that in im (Fig. 1B,E compared with C,F) which consisted of pronounced, light-dependent sectoring. Light microscopy of var3 leaves showed that yellow areas contained few if any palisade mesophyll cells, which resulted in a rough leaf surface (compare Fig. 1G and H). Scanning electron microscopy confirmed that these areas collapsed during critical point drying (Fig. 1I,J).   [[FIGURE]] To study formation of the yellow areas, Ler and var3 plants were grown under high or low light intensities (16 hours light, 435 μmol·photons m-2·s-1 and 125 μmol·m-2·s-1) and im plants were grown under low light as a reference. Pictures were taken at 2- or 3-day intervals and leaf size and the relative size of the yellow areas were estimated by image analysis. In some of the emergent first to fourth leaves, up to 80% of the leaf area could be yellow, but their relative area decreased at a rate comparable to that of the leaf growth rate. Subsequent leaves exhibited markedly less patchiness. A decrease in the relative area of white sectors was also seen in im, but both the change in their percentage area and rate of decrease were lower (not shown). Moreover, all im rosette leaves formed could be equally affected, and demarcations between their green and white sectors remained distinct. Confocal microscopy revealed that var3 variegation started at early stages of chloroplast development shortly before the leaves emerged at the shoot apex (Fig. 1K). At this stage, areas of cells with normally developed chloroplasts were mingled with areas with partially developed and undeveloped plastids, as judged by the red fluorescence of chlorophyll and precursors and by plastid size (Fig. 1L-N). Since normal cells were found abutting cells in the yellow areas, the effect of VAR3 appeared to be cell-autonomous. This pattern of yellow areas was retained in expanded leaves (Fig. 1O,P), and rudimentary lamellae could be seen in partially developed chloroplasts and `vacuoles' of swollen proplastids within their cells. The presence of such small chloroplasts with reduced numbers of thylakoids was confirmed in these cells by transmission electron microscopy (not shown). In contrast, cells containing normal chloroplasts together with clearly undeveloped plastids were not observed. This indicates that var3 cells are not heteroplastidic. The levels of expression of Lhcb1 and other genes involved in photosynthetic reactions may be regulated by plastid-derived signals including chlorophyll precursors and carotenoids (reviewed by CITATION). This initially suggested that the expression levels of nuclear genes like Lhcb1 or RbcS might be reduced in var3 because of its defective chloroplasts. However, northern blotting with total var3 RNA revealed only a slightly less accumulation of Lhcb1 and RbcS mRNAs than in wild type (Fig. 2A). In order to determine whether var3 represented a gun mutant, expression of Lhcb1 was investigated under photo-oxidative conditions in the presence of 5 μM norflurazon. Both Ler and var3 seedlings accumulated Lhcb1 under nonphotobleaching conditions. However, Lhcb1 mRNA was not detected under photo-oxidative conditions in the presence norflurazon (Fig. 2B). In contrast, control EF-1α (elongation factor 1 alpha) expression was detected in both the presence and absence of norflurazon. This indicates that VAR3 is not involved in the Mg-ProtoIX plastid-to-nucleus signaling pathway. To gain insight into the effect of the var3 mutation on global gene expression, expression profiling of wild-type versus var3 was performed with microarrays of some 8,000 cDNAs. The dataset was analyzed using the standard deviation of signal intensities of specific clones estimated from the values for 14 wild-type arrays in the database (Fig. 2C). This identified genes most likely to be differentially expressed in var3 based on the geometric mean of the z-score from the two arrays (Fig. 2D). This confirmed that expression of Lhcb1 and RbcS mRNAs monitored by the microarray was not significantly different in var3 and Ler. In addition, it indicated that the levels of mRNAs of genes encoding proteins involved in chloroplast transcription and translation, as well as rRNAs from both chloroplasts and mitochondria, were elevated in var3 compared to wild type. This indicates that coordinated gene expression in the plastids, mitochondria and nucleus was perturbed in var3 (CITATION). For example, the most significantly elevated mRNA was rpoB or chloroplast-encoded RNA polymerase subunit 2. rpoB expression is dependent upon DAG, a nuclear gene whose unstable loss of function produces a phenotype similar to that of var3 (CITATION). In addition, mRNA levels of a chloroplastic heat shock protein and a chaperone protein were elevated, and both of these types of proteins have been shown to associate with carotenoid metabolizing enzymes (CITATION; CITATION). This is of interest as VAR3 was shown to interact with homologs of 9-cis-expoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (NCED, below). An EcoRI site approximately 200 bp from the Ds right border was used to isolate chromosomal sequence flanking Ds by inverse PCR. Product sequencing identified the site of Ds integration at nucleotide 54,785 of P1 clone MVA3 (AB006706) on chromosome V (Fig. 3A). The insertion site was confirmed by PCR using var3 DNA as template with primers specific to each transposon end and to flanking genomic sequences. Sequencing revealed an 8 bp target site duplication typical of Ds insertions (Fig. 3A).   [[FIGURE]] To identify the VAR3 gene, 6 kb of clone MVA3 sequence (ecotype Columbia, Col) flanking the Ds insertion site was analyzed with NetPlantGene. This predicted four intron splice sites in five flanking regions with the codon capacity of exons. Exon assembly yielded a 2,274 bp open reading frame (ORF) encoding the VAR3 protein (Fig. 4A). The first predicted exon contained the Ds insertion after Ala46, indicating that var3 does not produce functional VAR3 protein.   [[FIGURE]] To confirm the genomic annotation, we isolated a full-length cDNA from a Ler inflorescence mRNA library using PCR primers including the 5′ start and 3′ stop codons. This sequence has been deposited in public databases with the accession number AY050223. The 3′ end of this VAR3 cDNA was identical to the sequence of a subsequently deposited EST (AV539640) isolated from a cDNA library from root mRNAs. Completion of the Arabidopsis genome sequence produced an identical annotation of the VAR3 gene (At5g17790). Northern hybridization with the VAR3 cDNA as probe failed to detect VAR3 mRNAs in wild type and var3. In contrast, VAR3 mRNA was detectable by reverse transcription PCR in wild type but not in var3 (Fig. 3B). RT-PCR also detected low levels of VAR3 mRNA in wild-type leaves and roots (not shown) from which the VAR3 EST was isolated. These results indicate that VAR3 mRNA is rare in wild type, and that the Ds insertion in var3 produces a truncated mRNA that does not accumulate to detectable levels. To confirm that the Ds insertion in VAR3 was responsible for the var3 phenotype, a wild-type VAR3 genomic fragment was introduced into the var3 mutant to examine complementation. The VAR3 genomic fragment, including the transcribed region and 1500 bp of 5′ upstream and 500 bp of 3′ downstream sequence, was cloned into pCAMBIA3300 carrying BASTA resistance, and transformed via A. tumefasciens into homozygous kanamycin-resistant var3 plants. Phenotypically wild-type, BASTA-resistant T1 progeny were shown by PCR to be homozygous for the var3 Ds allele, and to carry the complementing VAR3 transgene. As expected, T2 progeny of these selfed T1 transformants were kanamycin resistant and segregated 3:1 for BASTA resistant, wild-type growth versus var3 variegation. We conclude that loss of VAR3 function produces the var3 mutant phenotype. Interestingly, one other T1 transformant showed somatic complementation such that about half of the plant appeared wild type, while the other half exhibited variegation as var3. PCR confirmed that the wild-type half tissue carried the VAR3 transgene, while the variegated regions did not (data not shown). This confirmed that the effect of VAR3 on plastid and palisade development is cell-autonomous. The VAR3 protein contains 758 amino acids with a molecular mass of 85.9 kDa (Fig. 4A). Database homology searches revealed that VAR3 contains two tandem C2X10C2 zinc-finger domains. These domains comprise a conserved 30 amino acid residue consensus (X2GDWICX2CX3NFARRX2CXRCX2-PRPEX2; pFAM00641) characterized in RAN binding protein 2 (RanBP2) and other nucleoporins (Fig. 4B). These proteins are involved in nuclear trafficking, and the zinc fingers of RanBP2 bind Ran-GDP (CITATION). This suggests that the similar domains of VAR3 may be involved in protein-protein interactions. VAR3 also contains three longer 50 amino acid repeated sequences in the C-terminal region (Fig. 4B). Between these repeats are two shorter, proline-rich repeats that contain the minimal consensus signature of proteins interacting with WW (-P-P-X-Y-) or SH3 (-P-X-X-P-X-) domains (CITATION). Proteins with overall sequence similarity to VAR3 are apparently only present in plant genomes including the monocot, rice (GI:13161434; BAB33004). Arabidopsis has three VAR3 homologs with similarities in their N-terminal regions, the zinc fingers, and some of the repeats in the C-terminal region (Fig. 4A,B). Two homologs (AAF79711 and AAG52346) are divergent only in the C-terminal half, while another (AAG51125) shares overall similarity to VAR3. VAR3 and these homologs may therefore have a modular structure composed of different protein-protein interaction domains. The ChloroP algorithm predicted that VAR3 contains a 79 residue, N-terminal chloroplast targeting signal. ChloroP also predicted chloroplast target peptides for two of the Arabidopsis homologs (AAG51125 and AAF79711; Fig. 4B), but not for the third (AAG52346). Interestingly, the homolog (AAG51125) most similar to VAR3 also contains two putative, bipartite nuclear localization signals. It is therefore possible that VAR3 protein family members are differentially compartmentalized within cells. To investigate VAR3 subcellular localization, var3 was transformed with a construct carrying a hygromycin resistance marker and a translational fusion between VAR3, E. coli β-glucuronidase (GUS) and the Aequorea victoria green fluorescent protein (GFP) with 6× HIS tag (Var3-GUS-mGFP5-6×HIS) under control of the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter. Twelve wild-type looking, hygromycin-resistant T1 plants were selected that produced significant GUS reporter activity measured histochemically. T2 progeny of these lines proved to be kanamycin resistant and to segregate 3:1 hygromycin resistant wild type to hygromycin sensitive var3. This was confirmed for two lines by PCR for homozygosity of the var3 insertion allele and for the VAR3 reporter transgene. Western blotting with an anti-GFP antibody detected the expected 182 kDa Var3-GUS-mGFP5-6×HIS fusion protein in Ni-NTA affinity purified proteins from total extracts of these plants (data not shown). These results indicate that expression of the triple fusion protein complemented var3. Since VAR3 constitutes the N-terminal region of this functional triple fusion, this reporter is probably localized within cells similarly to wild-type VAR3 protein. Confocal microscopy was therefore used to examine the subcellular localization of GFP fluorescence in lines expressing GUS:GFP from the pCAMBIA 1303 control construct, and those expressing the complementing triple reporter. This showed that GFP fluorescence from the GUS:GFP control was localized throughout cells and not limited to the chloroplasts identified by their red autofluorescence (Fig. 5, panels 1-4 compared with 5-8). In contrast, GFP fluorescence from the triple VAR3:GUS:GFP reporter was clearly localized to chloroplasts (Fig. 5, panels 9-12). Closer inspection of this pattern in numerous cells revealed that although GFP fluorescence was visible throughout chloroplasts, it was concentrated in foci. These results indicate that the complementing VAR3 fusion accumulated in chloroplasts. The presence of GFP foci suggest it may accumulate in a suborganellar complex or compartment, although these foci may result from inappropriate aggregation of the fusion or GFP moieties because of their overexpression from the 35S promoter or to instability of the protein.   [[FIGURE]] VAR3 contains three different repeated domains, one of which is similar to the zinc-finger of RanBP2 that binds Ran-GDP (CITATION). In the absence of biochemical data on VAR3 function, we used directed yeast two-hybrid assays to test whether VAR3 interacts with Arabidopsis Ran1, its GTP-binding form Ran-GTP, GDP-binding Ran-GDP, Ran2, as well as RanBP1a, RanBP1b and RanGAP1 controls (CITATION). None of these exhibited interaction with VAR3, although control transformations with RanBP1a interacted with Ran1 and Ran2, measured by adenine and histidine prototrophy and β-galactosidase assay (data not shown). This indicates that VAR3 zinc-fingers do not bind Arabidopsis Ran. This prompted us to screen a yeast two-hybrid cDNA library for proteins that interact with VAR3. This screen of a library from mRNA of rosette plants identified 51 clones out of 1.5×107 transformants screened with full-length VAR3 as bait. These preys were sorted into three groups of plasmids by hybridization and restriction mapping. Sequencing revealed that the two smallest groups of clones were out of frame fusions to unclassified proteins (At5g07890 and AAG52339), and were not examined further. The largest group of clones encoded AtNCED4 (At4g19170; AL021687), a chloroplast-targeted member of a family of enzymes similar to nine-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (NCED) (CITATION). Fig. 6A shows that the prey plasmid expressing 258 amino acids of the NCED4 C terminus fused to the Gal4 activation domain permitted growth of the yeast strain carrying the bait plasmid expressing the VAR3 Gal4 DNA-binding domain fusion, and that this was not due to either auto-activation of the nutritional markers by the NCED4-Gal4AD fusion, or to the VAR3-Gal4BD fusion. These results indicate that VAR3 interacts with NCED4 in yeast. In contrast, the strain carrying VAR3 and the IM alternative oxidase was incapable of prototrophic growth, indicating that VAR3 does not interact with IM.   [[FIGURE]] To confirm these results, epitope-tagged, full-length VAR3 and the 259 amino acid N-terminal part of NCED4 from the cDNA library screen were synthesized by coupled in vitro transcription/translation and examined for interaction in vitro. This showed that VAR3, NCED4 (residues 336-595) and human lamin C control (LAM) were each of the expected size, and were immunoprecipitated with antibodies against the VAR3 N-terminal cMYC tag, or by the NCED4 or LAM N-terminal HA epitope tags (Fig. 6B, lanes 1-3). In addition, NCED4 was co-immunoprecipitated with c-Myc tagged VAR3 by anti-cMyc antibody, while LAM was not (Fig. 6B, lanes 4 and 5). This indicates that VAR3 is not a `sticky' protein, and that VAR3 and NCED4 interact in vitro. The smaller NCED4 products, which probably result from premature termination as they are immunoprecipitated via the N-terminal HA epitope tag (lane 2), may bind to VAR3 or to each other (lane 4). The same results were obtained with the full-length NCED4 protein (not shown). In vitro chloroplast import assays were used to confirm that VAR3 and NCED4 are targeted to chloroplasts (Fig. 6C). In vitro-translated, radiolabelled VAR3 and NCED4 were incubated with isolated, intact chloroplasts, and the chloroplasts fractionated post-import to determine the subplastid location of these proteins. For both VAR3 and NCED4, import was accompanied by processing to a smaller size, confirming that VAR3 and NCED4 encode precursor proteins. The smaller proteins were not a result of thermolysin processing of unimported VAR3 and NCED4, as demonstrated by control digestion of the in vitro translation mixture (lanes Tr+). Fractionation of the chloroplasts showed that VAR3 and NCED4 are located in the stroma, as is the case for the control stromal protein RbcS (SSU). A very small proportion of VAR3 and NCED4 co-localized with thylakoid membranes, but thermolysin digestion of the membranes demonstrated that this was surface associated, in contrast to the thylakoid lumen control 33 kDa subunit of the oxygen-evolving complex (33 k, Fig. 6C). These results confirm the results of the in vivo VAR3:GUS:GFP localization (Fig. 5). They also confirm that AtNCED4, like the maize NCED VP14 (CITATION), is chloroplast localized. The Arabidopsis genome contains seven NCED-like genes, [NCED1-6 and 9 (CITATION)], and two more distantly related genes (NCED7 and 8). To examine whether VAR3 binding was specific to NCED4, directed two-hybrid assays were performed with the VAR3 bait and NCED3 (BAB01336) and NCED5 preys (At1g30100) This revealed that VAR3 interacted with NCED5, but not with NCED3 (data not shown). These results indicate that VAR3 specifically interacts with certain NCED family members, including NCED4 and 5. NCED4 and 5 are not transcriptionally upregulated upon drought stress, and neither perform the cleavage of 9-cis-epoxycarotenoids (CITATION). In contrast, NCED3 performs this cleavage reaction and is therefore involved in the biosynthesis of the plant hormone abscisic acid. The variegated im mutant suffers from light dependent photo-oxidative damage because of a defect in carotenoid biosynthesis that leads to the accumulation of phytoene (CITATION; CITATION). Since VAR3 interacts with NCED homologs, var3 variegation might also be due to an alteration in carotenoid biosynthesis or metabolism. To examine this, we performed comparative profiling, by HPLC-diode array, of carotenoids and chlorophylls in var3 and wild-type plants. There was no qualitative difference in the pigment profiles of var3 and wild-type when grown in 24-hour or 4-hours/day light regimes. However, under both light regimes there were significant reductions in the levels of all detected carotenoids, as well as a less severe reduction in chlorophylls a and b (Table 1). In both wild type and var3 under the 4 hours/day light regime, one tetrapyrrole peak, tentatively assigned as the chlorophyll precursor protochlorophyllide, increased significantly compared to the levels in plants grown in continuous light. These results indicate that variegation in var3 is unlike that in im, and is not due to loss of specific photo-protective pigments.   [[TABLE]]
!~MM~! F3 progeny of transposants generated in ecotype Ler (CITATION) were examined for visible mutant phenotypes by growing 12 plants per line in soil. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of leaves was performed using standard protocols. For transmission electron microscopy (TEM), leaves were fixed overnight at 5°C in 0.1 M phosphate-buffered saline (pH 7.0) 2.5% glutaraldehyde and 2% paraformaldehyde, postfixed in 1% OsO4, dehydrated in acetone, followed by infiltration with epoxy resin (SPURR). Ultra thin sections were put on Formvar-covered whole grids and examined in a Jeol 100CX microscope. Total RNA from 2-week-old wild-type and var3 plantlets exhibiting extensive variegation under constant illumination (435 μmol m-2 s-1) was prepared for RNA blot hybridizations and reverse transcription (RT) using standard protocols (RNAgents total RNA; Promega). RT-PCR was performed with a kit (Perkin Elmer, N808-0069) using an RT primer (5′CAGTTCTGGTCGTTCACGAGCA) and forward primer (5′ATGAACAACTCCACCAGACTCATCTCCCTC). EF-1α control primers were 5′GTTTCACATCAACATTGTGTTCATTGG and 5′GAGTACTTGGGGGTAGTGGCATCC. For photosynthetic gene expression analysis under photo-oxidative conditions, total RNA was prepared from Arabidopsis Ler and var3 seedlings according to the method of Logemann et al. (CITATION) and grown for 10 days in continuous white light (435 μmol m-2 s-1) on 1× MS medium, 2% sucrose plates with or without 5 μM norflurazon. For RT-PCR, 1 μg of template total RNA was DNase treated according to manufacturer's protocols (Gibco-BRL). Lhcb1 primers for RT-PCR were 5′GGTACGATGCTGGGAAAGAGC and 5′ACACTCACAGACAGACATGAA. RT-PCR was performed with 25 cycles to ensure that products would remain within the linear range. EF-1α control primers were again used for the control, and RT-PCR was performed with 27 cycles of amplification. Standard protocols for microarray analysis by the Arabidopsis Functional Genomics Consortium were followed (afgc.stanford.edu/afgc_html/AFGCProtocols-fev2001.pdf), and the var3 hybridization data is available under proposal #944-DCA-505-GEJ-7. A data set (http://genome-www4.stanford.edu/MicroArray/SMD/) of intensity signals from 14 wild-type arrays (CH1D_MEAN values of ExptID 11595, 10658, 11601, 10651, 11592, 9755, 10653, and CH2D_MEAN values of ExptID 11598, 10659, 11602, 10652, 11594, 8031, 10654) was used to estimate gene-specific variation in wild-type hybridizations, and two arrays for comparing var3 mutant and wild type (ExptID 10653 and 10654, CH1D_MEAN and CH2D_MEAN). All data are from array print batch CIW-2_05-00. This data set was normalized by fitting a smoothed spline to the correlation between the cumulative density distribution of a virtual average array (one channel) and a given array channel. The spline function was subsequently applied to the array data points (Workmann et al., 2002). The 14 wild-type arrays exhibited consistent intensity measurements and allowed estimates of gene-specific standard deviation (std14Xwt). The geometric mean of the z-like score (intvar3-intwt)/std14xwt from the two arrays was then used to rank the genes in Fig. 2C.   [[FIGURE]] Wild-type and var3 seeds were germinated on MS medium containing 3% sucrose, and incubated at 22°C under constant light (435 μmol m-2 s-1). Approximately 140 seedlings were harvested at the 2-4 leaf stage, freeze-dried, and five replicate methanol extractions prepared for each type of seedling using the method of Fraser et al. (CITATION). Extracts were analyzed for carotenoids and chlorophylls by HPLC with a photo-diode array detector according to Bramley (CITATION). Peak assignments were made by co-injection with authentic standards. Unknown carotenoids and chlorophylls were suggested by the UV spectra of the peaks. DNA for inverse PCR and Southern blotting was isolated with the DNeasy kit (Qiagen). Genomic sequence flanking the Ds insertion was amplified by inverse PCR. 50 ng of var3 DNA was digested with EcoRI (20 μl volume) and self-ligated with E. coli T4 ligase (New England Biolabs). Two μl of the ligation was used as template with transposon/GUS primers (5′CCAGACTGAATGCCCACAGGCCGTCG and 5′CGGCGATTTGGAAGGCAGAGAAGG). The VAR3 gene was annotated from sequences surrounding the Ds insertion site using BLAST (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST), NetPlantGene (cbs.dtu.dk/services/NetPGene), Psort (psort.nibb.ac.jp), ChloroP (cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP), PFSCAN (irec.isb.ch/software/PFSCAN), PFAM (sanger.ac.uk/Software/Pfam/search.shtml), and ClustalW with Boxshade (clustalw.genome.ad.jp). Primers including the predicted VAR3 start and stop codons (5′TATTAAAGATCTATGAACAACTCCACCAGACTCATCTCCCT and 5′TATTAAAGATCTTCATTTATCTCCTTTACCAGTGGGATCAG) were used to amplify a VAR3 cDNA by PCR using λ-phage DNA isolated from a cDNA library (CD4-6, Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, Ohio, USA) as template with annealing at 55°C for 5 minutes and elongation at 68°C for 5 minutes. A 2277 bp fragment was amplified and cloned into a pCR-blunt vector (Invitrogen, k2700-20) and sequenced using an ABI 310 sequencer. Complementation of var3 was performed with a genomic fragment of 4,941 bp, including 1,541 bp 5′ to the VAR3 start codon and 539 bp 3′ to the stop codon (nt. 56,462 to 51,521 of clone MVA3, AB006706) isolated by long range PCR using ecotype Landsberg DNA template and primers 5′GACCCAGAAAACAAAAGGTGGCGAG and 5′CTTGCCTCTAACGACGTGTTTTCGG. The product was cloned in the SmaI site of pCAMBIA 3300 carrying a BASTA resistance marker (thaliana.botany.wisc.edu/cambia), and the resultant construct transferred via Agrobacterium into var3 plants by vacuum infiltration (CITATION). T1 BASTA resistant, wild-type plants were selected and shown to carry the VAR3 transgene, and to be homozygous for the var3 insertion allele by PCR. Segregation analysis of T2 progeny showed that all BASTA resistant T1 plants were homozygous for kanamycin resistance carried on Ds, and that the var3 phenotype segregated 1:3 wild type. An NcoI-linkered VAR3 cDNA fragment containing the ORF without the stop codon was generated by PCR with Pfu (Promega) and VAR3 linker-primers (5′TATTAACCATGGCCAACTCCACCAGACTCATCTCCCTC; 5′TATTAACCATGGATTTATCTCCTTTACCAGTGGGATCA) and the VAR3 cDNA template. This fragment was cloned in NcoI of binary vector pCAMBIA 1303 carrying a hygromycin resistance marker, generating a single ORF encoding VAR3, GUS and GFP under control of the 35S promoter. This construct was transformed via Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 into wild type and var3. T1 plants were selected on hygromycin and analyzed for phenotype, GUS activity and GFP fluorescence. Two wild-type lines were also shown by PCR to contain GUS carried on pCAMBIA 1303 and to be homozygous for Ds in var3. These lines were analyzed for GFP fluorescence using a Zeiss LSM510 microscope. A cDNA library was used according to the manufacturer's instructions (Clontech, FL4000AB). The full-length VAR3 cDNA bait was cloned as a BamHI-linkered fragment with primers 5′TATTAAGGATCCCGATGAACAACTCCACCAGACTCATCTCCCTC and 5′TATTAAGGATCCTCATTTATCTCCTTTACCAGTGGGATCAGAGTC into vector pGBD-C1 that was introduced into strain PJ69A-4A (CITATION). This strain was transformed with library cDNA and screened for prototrophic growth on medium lacking tryptophan, leucine, histidine and adenine for 4 days at 30°C. A total of 15×106 transformants were screened to yield 60 positive clones. These clones were assayed for β-galactosidase activity that eliminated nine clones. DNA was extracted from the remaining clones and used as templates with prey pGAD10 primers (Clontech, 9103-1) to size inserts and for sequencing. One clone of each of the three prey insert groups was rescued in E. coli and re-sequenced. To confirm interactions, bait and prey plasmids were individually co-transformed into PJ69A-4A and re-evaluated for prototrophic growth and β-galactosidase activity. Control Arabidopsis cDNAs included IM (AF098072), Ran1 (X97379), Ran2 (X97380), Ran3 (X97381), RanBP1a (X97377), Ranbp1b (X97378), RanGAP (AF214559), and Ran1-GTP and Ran1-GDP variants (CITATION). To further confirm VAR3 interaction, prey proteins were synthesized by in vitro transcription/translation (TnT, Promega) and co-immunoprecipitated according to Clontech (Co-IP, PT3323-1). NCED4 lacks introns and the full-length open reading frame was amplified with Pfu from genomic DNA with EcoRI and XhoI linker primers (5′TATTAAGAATTCGCAATGGACTCTGTTTCTTCTTCTTC; 5′TATTAACTCGAGTGCGATTTGTTGTACGGGACGTAATT) and cloned into pGADT7. VAR3 cDNA encoding the full-length precursor of VAR3 (preVAR3) was amplified by PCR and cloned in pGEM-T (Promega). The plasmid pGADT7:NCED4 encoding the full-length precursor of NCED4 (preNCED4) was partially digested with NcoI, to remove the vector HA epitope tag, and then religated. VAR3 and NCED4 were transcribed with T7 RNA polymerase and translated in vitro using a coupled transcription-translation rabbit reticulocyte lysate kit, (Promega) in the presence of L-[35S]methionine (Amersham Biosciences). Plasmid constructs encoding wheat pre33K [33 kDa subunit of the oxygen-evolving complex (CITATION)] and pea RbcS precursor were transcribed in vitro using SP6 RNA polymerase, and translated using a wheat germ lysate system (Promega), in the presence of L-[35S]methionine. Pea (var. Kelvedon Wonder) chloroplasts were isolated and import assays performed according to the method of Robinson and Mant (CITATION). Briefly, intact chloroplasts equivalent to 50 μg chlorophyll were mixed with 8 mM MgATP, 5 mM unlabeled L-methionine, 5 mM unlabeled L-cysteine, 5 mM MgCl2 and 12.5 μl translation mixture, all in HS buffer (330 mM sorbitol, 50 mM Hepes-KOH pH 8.0), final volume 150 μl. Assays were incubated for 60 minutes at 26°C in an illuminated water bath (150 μmol photon m-2 s-1). Incubations were halted by the addition of 1 ml ice-cold HS, followed by centrifugation at 3000 g for 5 minutes at 4°C. Chloroplast pellets were resuspended in 120 μl HS and 30 μl removed, representing total chloroplasts. The remaining 90 μl chloroplasts were incubated for 40 minutes at 4°C with 0.2 mg ml-1 thermolysin (Protease type X; Sigma), 2.5 mM CaCl2 in a final volume of 250 μl HS. The protease digestion was halted with 10 mM EDTA and one third of the sample removed (protease-treated chloroplasts sample). The remaining chloroplasts were centrifuged at 3000 g for 5 minutes at 4°C, and resuspended in lysis buffer (10 mM Hepes-KOH, pH 8.0, 5 mM MgCl2, 10 mM EDTA). After 5 minutes incubation on ice, the lysate was centrifuged at 20,000 g for 5 minutes at 4°C. The supernatant was the stromal extract, and the pellet, thylakoid and envelope membranes. Membranes were resuspended in lysis buffer without EDTA and divided into equal portions. One portion was analyzed directly, the other after incubation with 0.2 mg ml-1 thermolysin, 2.5 mM CaCl2 for 40 minutes on ice. Thermolysin incubation was stopped by addition of 10 mM EDTA and centrifugation at 20,000 g for 5 minutes at 4°C. All chloroplast fractions were mixed with protein sample buffer and heated to 95°C for 4 minutes before analysis by SDS-PAGE and fluorography.
