!~ABS~! Arabidopsis thaliana has a number of response regulators (ARRs) implicated in the histidine (His)→aspartate (Asp) phosphorelay signal transduction. According to the current consistent model, both the type-A and type-B ARR family members play crucial roles in the cytokinin signaling circuitry. However, this higher plant has a few extra ARRs, on which no attention has been paid so far. Characterization of these extra ARRs might provide us with new insight into the His→Asp phosphorelay signal transduction in plants. For this reason, in this study we extensively examined the natures of such a representative (named ARR22). Transcripts of ARR22 were expressed predominantly in reproductive organs, and a GFP::ARR22 fusion protein was localized in the cytoplasmic space in onion epidermal cells. The purified ARR22 protein had the ability to undergo phosphorylation in vitro, when incubated with phospho-AHP5, indicating that ARR22 has the fundamental ability to participate into a His-Asp phosphorelay pathway in its own right. In plants, transgenic lines overexpressing ARR22 were characterized (referred to as ARR22-ox), which showed the characteristic dwarf phenotypes with poorly developed root systems. The results of Northern blot hybridization with selected sets of hormone-responsive genes suggested that cytokinin responses are selectively attenuated in ARR22-ox, while other hormone responses (auxin, ABA and ethylene) occur normally. The results of microarray analyses with cytokinin-treated wild-type and ARR22-ox plants further supported the view that cytokinin responses are globally attenuated in ARR22-ox, at least, at the level of gene regulation. Finally, we demonstrated that the dwarf phenotypes of ARR22-ox are very similar to those of the wooden leg (wol) mutant, which has a severe lesion in the AHK4/CRE1 cytokinin-receptor of histidine protein kinase. These results suggested that ARR22 might also be implicated, directly or indirectly, in the cytokinin-responsive His→Asp phophorelay signal transduction.
!~RES~! The common feature of ARRs is the so-called receiver domains of about 120 amino acids, in which a phospho-accepting invariant aspartate (Asp or D) residue is located (Fig. 1) (Imamura et al. 1999). Type-A and type-B ARRs have such typical receiver domains at their N-terminal ends (Fig. 1A). However, the type-B ARR family members have long C-terminal extensions, in which the DNA-binding domains (B-motifs or GARP-motifs) are commonly found (Hosoda et al. 2002). Such a receiver domain is also found in some histidine protein kinases (e.g., AHK4) (Fig. 1A). In any case, a receiver domain is assumed to serve as an essential phospho-acceptor in a His→Asp phosphorelay (Imamura et al. 1998, Imamura et al. 1999). When the amino acid sequences of these receiver domains were aligned (Fig. 1B), it appears that three amino acids [aspartate (D), phospho-accepting aspartate (D), lysine (K)] are invariantly conserved. However, the overall amino acid sequences are highly divergent from one family to another. This is further evident, when a phylogenetic tree was constructed with the amino acid sequences of these receiver domains (Fig. 1C). More interestingly, the results of these analyses indicated that ARR22 and ARR24 are obviously excluded from both the type-A and type-B family members (Fig. 1C), albeit that the apparent structural designs of ARR22 and ARR24 are very similar to those of type-A ARRs (Fig. 1A). Therefore, it is tempting to speculate that these outsider ARRs might play certain roles different from those of type-A and type-B ARRs in plants. It may also be noteworthy that some predicted proteins highly homologous to ARR22 and/or ARR24 are found in the databases for other plant species (e.g., Oryza sativa and Brassica napus) (Whitelaw et al. 1999). Considering these, in this study we focused on these outsider ARRs. As the first step, we cloned each cDNA for the predicted ARR22 and ARR24 genes, in order to make sure that they are indeed functional genes. We succeeded in doing so, and the amino acid sequences of ARR22 and ARR24, and the exon-intron alignments of their genes were confirmed as predicted (The Arabidopsis Information Resource, http://arabidopsis.org/index.jsp). A hallmarked feature of type-A ARRs is that the corresponding genes are very rapidly activated in plants at the level of transcription in response to cytokinin (see Introduction). It is first critical to examine whether or not ARR22 and ARR24 are also induced in response to cytokinin. The results showed that this is not the case (Fig. 1D). The transcript of ARR5 (a representative of type-A ARRs) was accumulated rapidly (within 1 h) when young seedlings were treated with cytokinin (benzyl adenine and t-zeatin), but the expression levels of ARR5 never fluctuated in response to other plant hormones, as expected (D’Agostino et al. 2000). Under these conditions, the expression levels of ARR22 were not affected at all in response to any hormones, including cytokinin. Even when we examined such hormone-responsiveness at different time-points (e.g., 6 h treatment), the expression levels of ARR22 did not fluctuate in response to cytokinin. The expression levels of ARR24 were too low to quantitatively detect in young seedlings. As judged by the cytokinin-responsiveness, ARR22 is clearly distinctive from authentic type-A ARRs. For these reasons together (Fig. 1), we focused on ARR22 in the hope of gaining new insight into the Arabidopsis His→Asp phosphorelay signal transduction, in which ARR22 might play an important role. The accumulation profiles of ARR22 were examined with RNA prepared from various organs at different developmental stages of plants (Fig. 2A). Transcripts of ARR22 were predominantly (but not exclusively) detected in certain reproductive organs, including flowers and siliques. We also examined the intracellular localization profile of ARR22 by employing a GFP::ARR22 recombinant gene (Fig. 2B). The result of a bombardment expression assay with onion epidermal cells showed that GFP::ARR22 displayed a localization profile very similar to GFP and GFP::ARR16, suggesting GFP::ARR22 was localized mainly in the cytoplasmic space. Under the same experimental conditions, GFP::ARR15 was localized at a confined region that most likely represents the nucleus, as previously demonstrated (Kiba et al. 2002). We then asked the critical question of whether or not ARR22 does indeed have the ability to undergo phosphorylation at the essential aspartate residue. This was also demonstrated to be the case (Fig. 2C). To carry out an in vitro phosphorylation experiment, the purified ARR22 polypeptide was prepared. A mutant ARR22 polypeptide was also prepared, in which the phospho-accepting aspartate residue (D) has been changed to an aspargine residue (N) (designated as ARR22DN). These purified polypeptides were incubated in vitro with the purified AHP5 polypeptide that has previously been radioactively phosphorylated at its histidine site. When phospho-AHP5 and ARR22 were mixed together, the radioactive phosphoryl group on AHP5 disappeared within 1 min (Fig. 1C, upper panel), while nothing happened when ARR22DN was used (Fig. 1C, lower panel). These events were best interpreted by assuming that a phosphoryl group on AHP5 was transiently transferred onto ARR22, and then it was released rapidly from ARR22. In other words, ARR22 has a strong phospho-histidine phosphatase activity, in which the phospho-accepting aspartate residue is critically involved. It may be worth mentioning that many other response regulators also display such an apparent phosphatase activity, as previously demonstrated for the type-A ARR3 and ARR4 (Imamura et al. 1999). These results showed that ARR22 has the fundamental ability to participate into a His-Asp phosphorelay pathway in its own right. We then took genetic approaches to gain insight into the function of ARR22. First of all, we attempted to search for an appropriate mutant line that carries a T-DNA insertion in the ARR22 gene. Unfortunately, no appropriate arr22 mutant is available in the public Arabidopsis mutant banks, including The Kazusa DNA Research Institute (Chiba, Japan), The Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory (California, U.S.A.) and elsewhere. Therefore, we decided to establish transgenic lines overexpressing ARR22, based on the assumption that ARR22 might play a role at a rate-limiting regulatory step of a His→Asp phosphorelay pathway. To do so, a recombinant ARR22 gene, connected to the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus (CaMV) 35S promoter, was employed. On the first screening of ARR22-overexpressing transgenic lines (hereafter referred to as ARR22-ox), many hygromycin-resistant T1 young seedlings appeared on the selection MS-agar plates. However, we noticed that their morphologies were considerably different from those of wild-type seedlings (Fig. 3A). These putative ARR22-ox T1 young seedlings (22 independent candidates) all displayed considerably smaller cotyledons with normal morphologies. More strikingly, the development of their primary roots was markedly delayed, as compared with those of wild-type seedlings. We carefully followed their developmental stages further, and it was revealed that these putative ARR22-ox plants eventually showed dwarf phenotypes (Fig. 3B). At this stage (21-day-old), we confirmed that these putative transgenic plants accumulated a large amount of transcripts that hybridized with a probe specific to ARR22 (Fig. 3B, inset picture). During the prolonged incubation of these dwarf plants, they developed primary inflorescences, but they set neither normal flowers nor siliques, resulting in sterility. To confirm these intriguing phenotypes of ARR22-ox transgenic plants, we repeated the transformation experiment once again. At this time, we employed appropriate mutant ARR22 genes as references. They were ARR22DN and ARR22DE, each of which was designed so as to encode a mutant protein lacking the essential aspartate residue: the aspartate residue at the position of 74 was replaced with asparagine (ARR22DN) or glutamate (ARR22DE). These gene products are most likely inactive, as far as the phospho-accepting ability was concerned, as demonstrated (see Fig. 2C). In this second experiment, most of the ARR22-ox T1 transgenic lines (58 out of 65 candidates) showed the dwarf phenotypes, while both the resulting ARR22DN-ox and ARR22DE-ox T1 plants were indistinguishable from wild-type plants (Fig. 3C, Table 1). We repeated the same experiments independently three more times, in order to statistically confirm the dwarf phenotypes of ARR22-ox, as summarized in Table 1. We then concluded that an aberrant and ectopic expression of ARR22 in transgenic plants results in a severe defect of plant development. In particular, the development of roots is severely impaired in ARR22-ox. Considering the fact that ARR22DN-ox and ARR22DE-ox showed no phenotype, it was suggested that an accumulation of ARR22 with the phospho-accepting activity is critically relevant to the characteristic dwarf phenotypes. In this respect, certain transgenic plants overexpressing type-A ARRs have been characterized, showing that they play a negative role in the cytokinin signal transduction circuitry (Hwang et al. 2002, Kiba et al. 2003). Their morphological phenotypes were subtle in that no apparent morphological change was seen, although they were less sensitive to cytokinin in callus formation assays. In the case of ARR6-ox, interestingly, its phospho-accepting Asp residue appears to be not necessary for the negative action of ARR6 (Hwang et al. 2002). This may suggest the modes of action are different between type-A ARRs and ARR22. In any case, to address these issues further, we mainly employed ARR22-ox T1 young seedlings, because of the sterility. ARR22-ox plants showed a global defect of plant development, resulting in the dwarf phenotypes. In general, these phenotypes are indicative of plant hormone-associated events. Thus, we examined ARR22-ox with reference to hormone responsiveness at the level of gene regulation. The examined hormones were auxin, abscisic acid (ABA), ethylene and cytokinin (Fig. 4). We examined the expression of certain selected genes, each of which has been documented to rapidly respond to each hormone in question at the level of transcription. The hallmarked genes tested were followings: IAA1 and AUR3 (for auxin) (Sawa et al. 2002), RD29A and RD29B (for ABA) (Yamaguchi-Shinozaki and Shinozaki 1993) and ERF1 (for ethylene) (Solano et al. 1998), ARR15 and AHK4 (for cytokinin) (D’Agostino et al. 2000, Rashotte et al. 2003). Both the wild-type and ARR22-ox young seedlings (11-day-old) were treated with each hormone, and then RNA was prepared at appropriate intervals, followed by analyses with semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase-based polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) with each set of specific primers (Fig. 4). As far as the responses of these genes to the respective hormones were concerned, it was demonstrated that ARR22-ox could respond to auxin, ABA and ethylene, as normally and remarkably as in the case of wild-type plants (Fig. 4, panels A, B and C). However, ARR22-ox failed to respond to cytokinin (Fig. 4, panel D). Here it may also be worth mentioning that we treated ARR22-ox young seedlings by spraying with cytokinin, but the resultant phenotypes were essentially the same as those of ARR22-ox seedlings without cytokinin-treatment (data not shown). Taken together, it was suggested that cytokinin responses might severely be attenuated in ARR22-ox, whereas other hormone responses occur normally. Although gibberelin and brassinosteroid were not concerned in these experiments, this finding now led us to further examine ARR22-ox with special reference to cytokinin responses. Although we showed that ARR22-ox could not respond to cytokinin when the hallmarked cytokinin-inducible ARR15 and AHK4 genes were examined (Fig. 4), this result does not necessarily justify the assumption that cytokinin responses are widely attenuated in ARR22-ox. To gain a more comprehensive view in this particular aspect, we adopted a microarray analysis of ARR22-ox in terms of cytokinin responses. In other words, cytokinin-responsive genes were comprehensively compared between wild-type and ARR22-ox plants, with a genome-wide viewpoint. We adopted the well-established microarray system of Affymetrix GeneChip (Arabidopsis ATH1 Genome Array, Affymetrix, Santa Clara, CA, U.S.A.) containing more than 22,500 probe sets representing approximately 24,000 genes (details are given in Materials and Methods). First of all, we collected such microarray data for wild-type plants. The wild-type (Columbia ecotype) plants, treated with and without cytokinin (t-zeatin for 3 h), were intensively subjected to microarray analyses, and the statistically meaningful data were collected. With regard to such complicated data, in general, we must somehow evaluate the reliability. To do so, we first analyzed certain selected data for those genes involved in the His-Asp phosphorelay, which included 11 histidine protein kinase genes, 6 AHP-related genes, 11 type-B ARR genes, 10 type-A ARR genes, and both the ARR24 and ARR22 genes (see Introduction). Fig. 5 shows the “Fold-Change (FC) (Fluctuation-Ratio)” of these transcripts. The results indicated that most of the cytokinin-inducible type-A ARR genes were indeed upregulated in the cytokinin-treated plants, while other genes were not significantly fluctuated, except for AHK4, AtHK1 and ARR1. The upregulation of AHK4 was as expected (see Fig. 4). The fluctuations of AtHK1 and ARR1 might also be intriguing. In any event, the microarray data selectively highlighted the cytokinin-inducible type-A ARR genes, indicating that our collected data are highly reliable in a statistic sense. In addition to these His→Asp phosphorelay-associated genes, of course, many other genes were either upregulated (642 genes, FC ≥2) or downregulated (445 genes, FC ≤0.5) in response to cytokinin. However, the detailed analyses of these will be described elsewhere (they will appear in the public www site of RIKEN; Plant Science Center, and see Table 2). Meanwhile, we collected such microarray data for ARR22-ox plants, under essentially the same conditions as those adopted for wild-type plants. The experimental data of ARR22-ox were listed in Table 2, in comparison with those of wild-type plants. In this list, the upregulated genes were lined up in the order of their FCs, in the way that the most highly upregulated gene (i.e., At5g47980) in wild-type plants was listed at the top. It was revealed that most of the cytokinin-upregulated genes in wild-type plants did not significantly fluctuate in ARR22-ox in response to cytokinin (denoted by NC, not changed; or ND, not detected). Among all the 642 upregulated genes in wild-type plants, only 37 were upregulated in ARR22-ox (data not shown). More strictly, among 85 of the putative cytokinin-inducible genes (listed in Table 2), only a few genes (four genes) were upregulated in ARR22-ox. These results of genome-wide analyses strongly supported the view that cytokinin responses are globally attenuated in ARR22-ox, at least, at the level of gene regulation. In the listed cytokinin-upregulated genes in wild-type plants, there were many intriguing genes, in terms of cytokinin-actions in general (see Table 2). They include putative transcription factors and putative signal transduction-associated factors and etc. As mentioned above, however, the close inspection of these genes will be conducted in detail in elsewhere. It should be at least noted here that a microarray analysis of cytokinin-regulated genes has recently been carried out using the 8,300-element Affymetrix Arabidopsis GeneChips, by other researchers (Rashotte et al. 2003). Other microarray data, which are closely relevant to cytokinin-action also became available recently (Che et al. 2002, Hoth et al. 2003). Detailed comparisons between out data and others remain to be conducted. The above findings finally led us to remember the well-documented Arabiodpsis mutant, named wooden leg (or wol), which carries a mutant allele of the AHK4 cytokinin-receptor gene (Mahonen et al. 2000). It was reasonably assumed that, in the wol mutant, cytokinin responses are attenuated at least in part, because wol appears to represent a loss-of-function mutant of the AHK4 cytokinin-receptor. So, we obtained the original wol seeds (courtesy of Dr. Yka Helariutta, University of Helsinki, Finland), and compared the growth profiles of wol with those of ARR22-ox under same growth conditions (Fig. 6, upper panel). Both the wol and ARR22-ox plants showed very similar developmental morphologies on MS-agar plates (14-day-old), displaying the dwarf phenotypes with poorly developed root systems. The most striking phenotype of wol is that the wol roots show an extremely reduced cell number and exclusive xylem differentiation within the vascular tissue (Mahonen et al. 2000). Interestingly, the ARR22-ox roots also displayed essentially the same characteristics as those of wol (Fig. 6, middle and lower panels). When cross-sections of primary roots were compared, the vascular tissue of ARR22-ox contained an extremely reduced number of cells, as in the case of wol (Fig. 6, middle panels). Concomitantly, the numbers of pericycle cells were also reduced in both the wol and ARR22-ox roots, whereas the organization of other root cells appeared to be normal. More strikingly, the residing cells in the altered vascular tissue of both the wol and ARR22-ox roots showed an exclusively xylem-like nature, when they were stained with basic fuchsin, followed by examination with a confocal scanning laser microscope (Fig. 6, lower panels). Taken together, the phenotypes of ARR22-ox were found to be quite similar to those of wol, which has a severe defect in the AHK4 cytokinin-receptor. We further compared the phenotypes of ARR22-ox and wol with each other, with special reference to cytokinin-actions. Employing their explants (from hypocotyls of young seedlings), green callus formation assays were carried out on MS-agar plates, each of which contained varied concentrations of cytokinin (t-zeatin) and auxin (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid; 2,4-D), according to the established procedures (Kakimoto 1996). After incubation for 30 d, when green callus and shoot formation on the plates were observed, it was shown that both the ARR22-ox and wol explants were far less sensitive to cytokinin (or auxin), as compared with wild-type and ARR22DN-ox explants. These results are also compatible with the view that, as in wol, cytokinin responses are attenuated in ARR22-ox, at least in part. Based on the results of this study, we conclude that A. thaliana has a unique response regulator, named ARR22, the amino acid sequence of which is considerably divergent from those of type-A ARRs, while their structural designs are similar to each other. Unlike type-A ARRs, the ARR22 gene is not activated at the level of transcription in response to cytokinin, suggesting that ARR22 plays a role distinctive from those of type-A ARRs. Surprisingly, the results of intensive examinations (Fig. 3–7) consistently supported the idea that ARR22 plays a role in close to the cytokinin-responsive signaling circuitry. It was demonstrated that cytokinin responses are globally attenuated in ARR22-ox, at least at the level of gene regulation. More specifically, ARR22-ox transgenic plants look like wol, which has a sever lesion in the CRE1/AHK4 cytokinin-receptor. However, these results came from mainly the analyses of transgenic plants overexpressing ARR22. Furthermore, the transcript of ARR22 is expressed predominantly in reproductive organs (see Fig. 2A), while the effect of ectopic expression of ARR22 was seen in vegetative tissues. Therefore, it is not certain whether ARR22 is directly integrated into the cytokinin signaling circuitry. The well-documented histidine protein kinase CKI1 is reminiscent in this sense that transgenic explants overexpressing CKI1 show the phenotypes that mimic cytokinin-action (Kakimoto 1996). Nevertheless, it has not yet been proven that CKI1 is the primary component of the cytokinin signal transduction. Thus, clarification of this issue must await further examination, which should include characterization of loss-of-function mutants (or RNAi transgenic plants). However, it is at least assumed that ARR22 is integrated in its own right into a certain His→Asp phosphorelay pathway, which might be closely linked to the AHK-mediated cytokinin signaling circuitry. One of the intriguing findings of this study is that the phenotypes of ARR22-ox are very similar to those of wol, as mentioned above. In both ARR22-ox and wol, the characteristic anomalies were observed in the vascular tissue in roots (see Fig. 6). In addition, it was reported that the wol mutant forms side roots from the upper hypocotyls (Scheres et al. 1995). In this respect, ARR22-ox transgenic plants also occasionally formed a premature side root-like structure from the upper hypocotyls (data not shown). However, the phenotypes of ARR22-ox are not exactly the same as those of wol in detail (e.g., wol plants can flower, while ARR22-ox is sterile). In this sense, it is not certain whether or not ARR22-ox is a phenocopy of wol. In any case, this interesting issue remains to be addressed further, by taking the recent report for the wol mutant into consideration, in which it was suggested that the wol phenotypes might be due to a separate function of the AHK4 His-kinase cytokinin receptor (De Leon et al. 2004). The mechanism by which the ectopic expression of ARR22 results in an apparent interference with the cytokinin signaling circuitry is also not known. ARR22 may interact through direct protein–protein interaction with one of the crucial His-Asp phosphorelay components that are directly involved in the cytokinin signaling circuitry; or ARR22 may act indirectly by increasing the function of an as yet identified negative regulator that is implicated in the cytokinin signaling circuitry. However, a more likely model is that ARR22 inhibits an activation process of type-B ARR transcription factors by competing for phosphotransfer from upstream His→Asp phosphotransfer factors. Two lines of evidence in this study supported this view. (i) ARR22 has the in vitro ability to undergo phosphorylation through interacting with an AHP phosphotransmitter, displaying a strong phospho-histidine protein phosphatase activity (Fig. 2C). (ii) Transgenic plants overexpressing a mutant ARR22 protein lacking the phospho-accepting site displayed no apparent phenotype (Fig. 3C). In any case, it is tempting to speculate that ARR22 exerts a negative regulatory function in a given His-Asp phosphorelay pathway, which might have a close link to the cytokinin signaling circuitry. In plants, transcripts of ARR22 are accumulated predominately, if not exclusively, in reproductive organs. Unfortunately, ARR22-ox transgenic plants did not normally develop such organs, including flowers and siliques. So, we could not inspect any defects of ARR22-ox in these organs. To clarify the exact biological event in plants into which ARR22 is directly implicated, we must therefore characterize loss-of-function mutants of ARR22 (or RNAi transgenic lines), as mentioned above. To this end, a close relative of ARR22, named ARR24 (see Fig. 1), must also be taken into consideration, because it is possible that both ARR22 and ARR24 act redundantly in concert with each other. In any case, in addition to relatively well-characterized type-A and type-B ARRs, this new class of response regulators must be taken into consideration for a better understanding the whole picture of His-Asp phosphorelay signaling network in A. thaliana.
!~MM~! A. thaliana plants mainly used in this study are Columbia ecotype (Col.). The wol mutant is a gift form Yka Helariutta (University of Helsinki, Finland). Plants were grown with 16 h light/8 h dark fluorescent illumination at 22°C on agar plates containing MS salts and 1% sucrose (MS-agar plate), unless otherwise noted. For preparation of total RNA from various organs, plants were grown with 16 h light/8 h dark fluorescent illumination at 22°C on soil for 30 d. If necessary, hygromycin B (20–50 µg ml–1) was added to agar-plates. E. coli K-12 strain DZ225 (F–, ΔenvZ, lacU169, araD139, rpsL, relA, flgB, thiA), carrying the plasmid-born multicopy arcB gene, was used to prepare cytoplasmic membranes. E. coli cells were grown in Luria-broth, and the urea-treated cytoplasmic membranes were purified, as described previously (Suzuki et al. 1998). The cytoplasmic membranes were used to phosphorylate the AHP5 phosphotransmitter protein in vitro, as described previously (Tanaka et al. 2004). E. coli strain JM109 was used as a host for preparations of plant polypeptides, as also described previously (Imamura et al. 1999). Total RNA was isolated by the method described by Carpenter and Simon (1998), with slight modifications, as described previously (Tajima et al. 2004). When RNA samples were used for RT-PCR amplification and microarray, they were treated with DNase I. To amplify cDNAs from an Arabidopsis total RNA preparation, an RT-PCR kit was used according to the instructions (BcaBEST RNA PCR Kit, TAKARA, Kyoto, Japan) with specific primers. The resultant PCR fragments were cloned and sequenced with an automated DNA sequencer (Model 310, Applied Biosystems, CA, U.S.A), with the recommended sequencing kits according to the instructions. Following primers were used for each cDNA amplification: ARR22 (5′-GGTGAAGATTCTTGAGAGAAAAG-3′ and 5′-ACGTGTAGGTGATTTCATGATTG-3′), ARR24 (5′-CAACATTCTCACAAAGAATTGAGAC-3′ and 5′-TAATAATCTAAAATCTCAAGAAATGAG-3′). For Northern blot hybridization, RNA was separated in agarose gels (1.2%) containing 2.2 M formaldehyde, then transferred to Hybond-N+ nylon membranes. The fixed membranes were hybridized with 32P-labeled DNA fragments in 6× standard saline phosphate and EDTA (1× SSPE = 0.18 M NaCl, 10 mM phosphate, 1 mM EDTA, pH 7.4), 5× Denhardt’s solution, and 0.5% SDS buffer containing 10% dextran sulfate and 100 µg ml–1 salmon sperm DNA, at 65°C for 18 h. The membranes were washed twice with 2× SSPE and 0.1% SDS for 15 min at room temperature, twice with 2× SSPE and 0.1% SDS for 30 min at 65°C, and then with 0.2× SSPE and 0.1% SDS for 30 min at 65°C. The washed membranes were exposed and analyzed with BAS-2000II (Fuji Photo Film, Tokyo, Japan). An RT-PCR kit was used according to the instructions (BcaBEST RNA PCR Kit, Takara, Kyoto, Japan). To perform semi-quantitative RT-PCR, the procedures were slightly modified, in which the conditions used were primarily 94°C for 30 s (denature), 56°C for 45 s (annealing), and 72°C for 90 s (elongation). It should also be noted that the cycles of PCR were varied for each RNA sample, and several different cycles were adopted for a given RNA sample (from 22 cycles up to 35 cycles), in order to amplify dsDNA in a semi-quantitative manner. In such semi-quantitative RT-PCR, the following primers were used: ARR22 (5′-GGTGAAGATTCTTGAGAGAAAAG-3′ and 5′-ACGTGTAGGTGATTTCATGATTG-3′), ARR24 (5′-CAACATTCTCACAAAGAATTGAGAC-3′ and 5′-TAATAATCTAAAATCTCAAGAAATGAG-3′), ARR5 (5′-AGCGGTTACTCAGAGTCTCAT-3′ and 5′-CTTAAAAGCTCTTTCCTCAGCT-3′), AHK4 (5′-TTTTGCGAGCTAGAGAAACCGG-3′ and 5′-CTCTCTCATGAGAGCAAGCTCG-3′), IAA1 (5′-CCATTGTCTCAAAACACCTTTTGG-3′ and 5′-GGTTATGTTAGTATCAAATATCTTGAGC-3′), AUR3 (5′-TATCAACCGGATGATGTGCG-3′ and 5′-GTGTTTAAAGAAAATTTAGGGCGTAG-3′), RD29A (5′-AGGAAGTGGAGAAGATCTCTAC-3′ and 5′-CACTTTAGACCTAGTAGCTGGT-3′), RD29B (5′-AGAAGCTGAAACCTGGAGAAGA-3′ and 5′-AAAGTTCACAAACAGAGGCATCA-3′), ERF1 (5′-ATTCTCCGGCTTCTCACC-3′ and 5′-CCACTTCAAACTTAAGGTCCC-3′), ACT8 (5′-GTCGCTGTCGACTACGAGCAAG-3′ and 5′-CTGTGGACAATGCCTGGACCTGC-3′). For expression of ARR22 in E. coli, the cDNA fragment encoding the entire ARR22 coding-region was inserted at appropriate restriction sites of expression plasmid pQE30 (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) that contains an IPTG-inducible T5 promotor. This plasmid (pQE-ARR22) allowed us to produce ARR22 with a His-tag at the N-terminus. This plasmid was also subjected to a site-directed mutagenesis, to yield pQE-ARR22DN, by means of an PCR-aided method with an appropriate primer (5′-CATTTCCTTGTTCATTAGAAT-3′). The resulting plasmid carries the mutant ARR22DN gene, which encodes the altered ARR22 with the amino acid substitution at the position of 74 (aspartate-to-asparagine). Similarly, pQE-ARR22DE was also constructed, in this case, with an appropriate primer (5′-CATTTCCTTCTCCATTAGAAT-3′). The JM109 strain of E. coli harboring pREP4 (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) was used as the host to produce proteins in question. The transformants of pQE-ARR22 and PQE-ARR22DN were grown in Luria-Bertini medium with appropriate antibiotics. Cleared cell lysates were obtained by use of French Pressure Cell Press (AMINCO, Illinois, U.S.A.). The lysates were subjected to purification with the use of QIAexpress system (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). The AHP5 polypeptides were purified, as described previously (Suzuki et al. 1998). Urea-treated membranes (10 µg of protein) were incubated with the purified AHP5 polypeptide (4 µg) at 37°C in the presence of 0.05 mM [γ-32P]ATP (10,000 cpm pmol–1), 50 mM KCl, and 5 mM MgCl2 in TEDG buffer (Tris-HCl, EDTA, DTT, glycerol) (Aiba et al. 1989a, Aiba et al. 1989b) Then, an excess amount of cold ATP was added to the reaction mixture. The reaction mixture was incubated on ice with purified ARR polypeptides for short periods in TEDG buffer (30 µl) containing 50 mM KCl and 7 mM MgCl2. After incubation, the samples were immediately subjected to sodium dodecylsulfate (SDS)-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The gel was exposed and analyzed with BAS-2000II (Fuji Photo Film, Tokyo). The recombinant genes each encoding appropriate GFP::fusion proteins were constructed, as described previously (Makino et al. 2000, Kiba et al. 2002). These genes are under control of the CaMV 35S promoter. The DNA fragments encompassing each recombinant gene were used to bombard into onion epidermal cells. After incubation for 24 h, the expression profile of each product was observed with a fluorescence microscope, as described previously (Makino et al. 2000, Imamura et al. 2001) The entire coding sequence of the ARR22-cDNA was amplified by PCR with the following set of primers, which will create XbaI and NotI site: 5′-GGTCTAGAATGGCAACAAAATCCACCGG-3′ and 5′-AAGCGGCCGCTCAAGCATCGAAGAGGTGGCT-3′. The isolated DNA fragment was inserted into the pSK1 binary vector (Kojima et al. 1999) at XbaI/NotI site downstream of the CaMV 35S promoter. The site-directed mutants of ARR22 (ARR22DN and ARR22DE), which had aspartate-74 substituted to asparagine and aspartate-74 to glutamate, respectively, were also made by PCR with the substitution-introduced primers and inserted in to the pSK1 binary vector. The PCR primers used for site-directed mutagenesis were as follows: ARR22DN (5′-CATTTCCTTGTTCATTAGAAT-3′), ARR22DE (5′-CATTTCCTTCTCCATTAGAAT-3′). These constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA101, and then wild-type plants (Columbia ecotype) were transformed by vacuum infiltration procedures, as described previously (Bechtold and Pelletier 1998). Transgenic seeds (T1 generation) were germinated on MS-agar plate supplemented with 50 µg ml–1 hygromycin B, 100 µg ml–1 cefotaxime sodium salt and grown for 7 d and hygromycin-resistant plants were selected. The selected T1 young seedlings overexpressing ARR22 were mainly characterized in this study (ARR22-ox). It should be noted that transgenic plants transformed with an empty vector were used as proper references. Plants were germinated on MS-agar plates and grown for 10 d. In the case of transgenic plants (e.g. ARR22-ox), they were germinated on MS-agar plates containing hygromycin B and grown for 7 d. They were then transferred to MS-agar plates without hygromycin B and grown for further 7 d. The plants were sprayed with the solution containing the following hormones: dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), 0.02%; 6-benzylaminopurine (BA), 20 µM; t-zeatin, 20 µM; 2,4-D, 20 µM; indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), 20 µM; 1-aminocyclopromane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC), 100 µM; giberellic acid (GA3), 100 µM; brassinolide (BL), 100 µM; abscisic acid (ABA) 100 µM; methyl salicylate (SA), 100 µM; methyl jasmomate (JaMe), 100 µM. At appropriate intervals, the treated plants were harvested and RNA was extracted. Hypocotyl segments (explants) were excised from 10-day-old etiolated young seedings. Wild-type (Columbia ecotype) and wol seedlings were grown on MS-agar plates, whereas ARR22-ox and ARR22DN-ox T1 young seedlings were grown on MS-agar plates containing hygromycin B. Explants were cultured on MS-agar plates, each containing varied concentrations of t-zeatin and 2,4-D. After incubation for 30 d, each representative callus was collected and photographed, after arranging appropriately. Total RNA samples were prepared from wild-type plants (Col.) and ARR22-ox plants (T1 young seedlings) treated with cytokinin. Total RNA samples from plants without treatment were also prepared. Detailed conditions of plant growth and hormone treatment are as follows: wild-type plants were grown on MS-agar plates for 2 weeks, and then sprayed with 20 µM t-zeatin, and further incubated for 3 h. ARR22-ox plants selected on MS-agar plates containing 50 µg ml–1 hygromycin B for 7 d, and then transferred onto MS-agar plates without hygromycin. After incubation for further 7 d (total 2 weeks), they were treated with cytokinin, as described for wild-type plants. Total RNA samples were processed as recommended by Affymetrix (Affymetrix GeneChip Expression Analysis Technical Manual, Affymetrix). Double-stranded cDNA was synthesized from the isolated RNA (30 µg of total RNA for each) using the SuperScript Double-Stranded cDNA Synthesis Kit (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, U.S.A.) and oligo(dT)24 primer primers containing a sequence recognized by T7 RNA polymerase (Amersham Biosciences). A portion of the resulting double-stranded cDNA was used as a template to generate biotin-tagged cRNA from an in vitro transcription reaction, using the Bio-Array High-Yield RNA Transcript Labeling Kit (Enzo Life Science, Farmingdale, NY, U.S.A.). The reaction product was purified with the use of the RNeasy RNA purification Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, U.S.A.). The biotin-tagged cRNA was fragmented and hybridized with DNA chips of Affymetrix ATH1 array (Affymetrix), at 45°C for 16 h. The standard post hybridization wash and double-stain protocols were adopted on an Affymetrix GeneChip Fluidics Station 400 (Affymetrix). Arrays were scanned on an Affymetrix GeneArray Scanner. The results were quantified using MicroArray Suite 5.0 software (Affymetrix). It should be noted that RNA processing, hybridization and scanning were carried out independently three times for each RNA sample. Finally, such collected raw data of cytokinin-treated samples were compared with those of non-treated samples, using a comparative analysis argorithm in MicroArray Suite 5.0 software (Affymetrix), by which “Fold-Change (FC) (i.e., fluctuation-ratio of transcript level)” was calculated. The differences were classified into: (I), Increased; (D), decreased; (NC), not changed, (MI), marginal increase; (MD), marginal decrease. To identify cytokinin-upregulated genes, those genes showing FC greater than 2 were selected. To select more properly, only those genes assigned as “P” (present) were selected (according to the Affymetrix flag procedure), and only those genes giving raw values greater than 100 in the cytokinin-treated data were selected. We applied the similar criteria to identify cytokinin-downregulated genes. Further more, only those genes were selected, which fulfilled the above criteria in three independent hybridization chip assays. Essentially the same analyses were carried out for ARR22-ox plants with and without cytokinin treatment. Young seedlings were fixed and embedded according to the method of Dolan et al. (1993). Sections were made on a SORVALL ULTRA-MICROTOME MT-1 (Newtown, CT, U.S.A.), using a glass knife. The resulting samples were stained in a 0.05% toluidine blue solution and photographed on a Nikon Eclipse E600 using Nikon COOLPIX990 camera. For confocal scanning experiments, the roots were stained with 0.01% basic fuchsin solution as previously described (Mahonen et al. 2000). Images were taken on an Olympus FV500 confocal microscope with an argon ion laser.
