!~ABS~! Chromatin remodeling is essential for the reprogramming of transcription associated with development and cell differentiation. The SWI/SNF complex was the first chromatin remodeling complex characterized in yeast and Drosophila. In this work we have characterized an Arabidopsis thaliana homolog of Brahma, the ATPase of the Drosophila SWI/SNF complex. As its Drosophila counterpart, Arabidopsis thaliana BRAHMA (AtBRM) is a nuclear protein present in a high molecular mass complex. Furthermore, the N terminus of AtBRM interacts, in the two-hybrid system, with CHB4 (AtSWI3C), an Arabidopsis homolog of the yeast SWI/SNF complex subunit SWI3. The AtBRM gene is primarily expressed in meristems, organ primordia and tissues with active cell division. Silencing of the expression of the AtBRM gene by RNA interference demonstrated that AtBRM is required for vegetative and reproductive development. The AtBRM silenced plants exhibited a reduction in overall plant size with small and curled leafs, as well as a reduction in the size of the inflorescence meristem. In the absence of AtBRM, Arabidopsis flowers have small petals and stamens, immature anthers, homeotic transformations and reduced fertility. The AtBRM silenced plants flower earlier than wild-type plants both under inductive and non-inductive photoperiods. Furthermore, levels of CO, FT and SOC1 transcripts were up-regulated under non-inductive conditions suggesting that AtBRM is a repressor of the photoperiod-dependent flowering pathway.
!~RES~! Several conserved domains have been described in ATPases of SWI/SNF complexes from different origins (Fig. 1). Domains 1 and 2 were originally defined in the amino-terminal part of the Drosophila Brahma protein and seem to be involved in protein-protein interactions (CITATION). The AT hook is a non-specific DNA-binding domain (CITATION). The bromodomain is present in several chromatin-associated proteins and is involved in the interaction with acetylated lysines (CITATION). Finally, poly-glutamine domains are also often found in the amino-terminal part of this subfamily of proteins. Analysis of the Arabidopsis genome provided evidence for four loci encoding proteins related to Drosophila Brahma: At2g46010-At2g46020, At5g19310, At3g06010 and the previously characterized SPLAYED (At2g28290) (CITATION). At2g46010 and At2g46020 have been annotated as two contiguous different loci, however the amino acid sequence deduced from At2g46010 and At2g46020 are related to the amino- and carboxyl-terminal halves of Brahma, respectively, suggesting that At2g46010 and At2g46020 constitute a single gene. This was confirmed by RT-PCR experiments using oligonucleotide pairs that span from the last exons of At2g46010 to the first exons of At2g46020 (data not shown). Fig. 1 shows the domain organization of the four closest Arabidopsis homologues of Brahma together with Drosophila Brahma and yeast SWI2/SNF2. Among the Arabidopsis proteins only that encoded by the At2g46010-At2g46020 locus possesses all the domains previously described for the Drosophila Brahma protein and for the proteins of the SWI2/SNF2 subgroup. While existence of a partial bromodomain motif in the SYD protein has been proposed (CITATION), our amino acid sequence analysis argues against this possibility. Therefore, we have designated the gene encoded by the At2g46010-At2g46020 locus as Arabidopsis thaliana BRAHMA (AtBRM). The complete sequence of the AtBRM cDNA has been obtained by sequencing the H8A3T7 EST and five partial overlapping cDNA fragments that were generated by RT-PCR.   [[FIGURE]] To investigate the subcellular distribution of the AtBRM protein, cytoplasmic and nuclear extracts were isolated and subjected to Western blotting using two different antibodies generated against two different parts of AtBRM (see Materials and methods). As shown in Fig. 2A, both antibodies recognized a protein of about 250 kDa, consistent with the deduced molecular mass of the protein encoded by the At2g46010-At2g46020 locus (245,317 Da). The AtBRM protein was only detected in nuclear extracts. Brahma and other ATPases of the SNF2 family are frequently associated with other proteins and fractionate as high molecular mass complexes in gel filtration chromatography. Nuclear proteins extracted from Arabidopsis callus were fractionated on a Superose 6 FPLC column, and the eluted fractions were assayed for AtBRM protein by western blotting (Fig. 2B). The apparent native molecular mass of the AtBRM protein was between 1 and 2 MDa, indicating that AtBRM is incorporated into a multi-protein complex in the nuclei of Arabidopsis cells.   [[FIGURE]] We investigated whether AtBRM interacts with other Arabidopsis putative SWI/SNF subunits using the yeast two-hybrid system. CHB4 (AtSWI3C, At1g21700) is an Arabidopsis homolog of the SWI3 and MOIRA proteins from yeast and Drosophila, respectively (CITATION) (see Plant Chromatin Database: http://chromdb.org). SWI3 and MOIRA interact directly with the amino-terminal regions of SWI2/SNF2 and Brahma, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we tested whether the amino terminal half of AtBRM interacts with the full length CHB4 protein. In these experiments the DNA binding partner contained AtBRM residues 16 to 952 fused to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain (GBD-AtBRM16-952) while the full length CHB4 protein was fused to the GAL4 activation domain (GAD-CHB4). As shown in Table 1, the co-expression of both proteins in yeast activated the expression of a chromosomal GAL1::lacZ reporter gene, indicating that the amino terminus of AtBRM interacts with CHB4. Furthermore, the yeast strain co-expressing both fusion proteins was able to grow in selective medium without histidine, indicating the activation of a GAL1::HIS3 reporter gene (data not shown). We next investigated whether BUSHY GROWTH (BSH) (CITATION), the Arabidopsis homologue of the yeast SNF5 protein interacts with AtBRM. It has been shown that the amino terminal part of human BRM is essential to co-immunoprecipitate human SNF5 (CITATION); however, a direct interaction between these two proteins has never been observed, suggesting that hBRM and hSNF5 interact through an intermediary protein in the SWI/SNF complex. Consistent with these data, GAD-BSH was unable to interact with GBD-AtBRM16-952 in our yeast two-hybrid assays.    Interaction of AtBRM16-952 with CHB4 in the yeast two-hybrid system  AtBRM mRNA was detected by northern blotting using total RNA from inflorescences, calli, and cultured cells and, to a lesser extent, from leaves, but not from siliques, roots or seedlings (Fig. 3A). However, AtBRM mRNA was also detected in these three tissues by RT-PCR (Fig. 3A, bottom panel), indicating that, albeit at a low level, AtBRM is also expressed in these tissues. Similarly, high levels of AtBRM protein were detected by western blotting in nuclear extracts of inflorescences, calli, cultured cells and leaves, while low levels were detected in extracts from siliques, roots and seedlings (Fig. 3B).   [[FIGURE]] The spatial expression pattern of AtBRM was studied using transgenic lines that express the β-glucuronidase reporter gene (GUS) under the control of the AtBRM promoter and regulatory sequences. Two different constructs were generated. The first construct, pAtBRM-P-GUS contained a 1371 bp region upstream of the start codon of AtBRM fussed to the GUS gene. The second construct, pAtBRM-PI-GUS contained a 1707 fragment including the same region as in pAtBRM-P-GUS in addition to the first exon and the first intron of AtBRM fused to the GUS gene. Ten independent transgenic lines were analyzed for each construct. None of the ten lines containing the pAtBRM-P-GUS construct expressed GUS activity, however eight out of the ten lines transformed with the pAtBRM-PI-GUS construct showed a characteristic GUS expression pattern, indicating that the first exon and/or the first intron of the AtBRM gene contain elements required for its expression. GUS activity was observed in the vegetative shoot apical meristem (SAM) and in the root meristem of primary and secondary roots but not in lateral root primordia (Fig. 3C,E). GUS signal was also observed in young leaves and young floral buds, whereas signals diminished as the organs matured (Fig. 3F,G,H). In developing leaves, signal was mostly visible in the vascular tissue (Fig. 3D). In flowers the AtBRM promoter was especially active in petals, stamens filaments, anthers and carpels (Fig. 3H). RNA in situ hybridization experiments were attempted unsuccessfully, probably because the low level of expression of the AtBRM gene. In order to investigate the function of AtBRM during Arabidopsis development transgenic lines with reduced levels of AtBRM expression were generated by RNA interference using the pHANNIBAL plasmid (CITATION). The cDNA fragment used for RNAi encompasses nucleotides 4558-5142 of the AtBRM cDNA sequence (encoding amino acids 1520-1713 of AtBRM protein; see Fig. 1). This DNA region shows no significant identity with the corresponding regions of the At5g19310, At3g06010 and SYD cDNAs, the closest Arabidopsis homologs of AtBRM. Among ten kanamycin-resistant transgenic lines analyzed eight showed different degrees of reduction in the level of expression of AtBRM, as evidenced by northern and western blotting experiments (Fig. 4A,B). Reduction of the AtBRM level was stable after several generations and similar in homozygous and heterozygous lines. Line 2.2 plants displayed a small reduction in the level of the AtBRM transcript, but levels of the AtBRM protein were not significantly affected. Line 2.2 plants displayed a wild-type (WT) phenotype. Lines 18.1, 3.1, 10.1, 14.3, 26.2 and 29.1, did not show detectable levels of either AtBRM transcript or protein and all exhibited a similar and characteristic phenotype (atbrm plants). Plants of the 25.1 line showed a strong reduction in the level of the AtBRM transcript, but a detectable amount of AtBRM protein (Fig. 4B) and had phenotypic characteristics intermediate between wild type and more completely silenced lines. In order to rule out the possibility that other related genes were affected by the RNA interference mechanism, expression of At5g19310, At3g06010 and SYD was analyzed by RT-PCR. Transcript levels of these three genes were not significantly altered in the atbrm plants in comparison with wild-type plants (data not shown). AtBRM-silenced plants exhibited a decrease in overall size with reduced stems and leaves (Fig. 4C,D). Rosette and cauline leaves of plants grown under long day (LD) conditions were strongly curled downwards and at the same time rolled in a spiral fashion (Fig. 4E,F,H). Leaves with a duplicated central vein were occasionally observed (Fig. 4E,F). Scanning electron microscopy revealed that abaxial and adaxial leaf epidermal cells of atbrm plants did not present obvious morphological abnormalities (data not shown). Root morphology, growth rate or number of secondary roots were not altered in AtBRM-silenced plants (data not shown).   [[FIGURE]] The AtBRM-silenced plants also exhibited defects in floral organ size, number and identity. This phenotype was more dramatic under short day (SD) conditions than under LD conditions. A quantitative description of the flower phenotype of WT and atbrm lines 10.1 and 29.1 under SD conditions is presented in Table 2. Similar results were also observed in lines 18.1, 3.1, 14.3, 26.2. Flower anthesis was severely reduced (Fig. 4G). Most flowers had short petals and stamens (Fig. 5A-D) as well as short pedicels (Fig. 4G). The stamens exhibited several types of abnormalities: anther dehiscence was severely reduced; cells in the stamen filaments were always shorter than wild-type filament cells (Fig. 5G,H); occasionally, fused filaments or anthers with three locules were observed (Fig. 5D,E). Often a reduction in the number of stamens from six to four or five, was also observed (Fig. 5D). In about 35% of the flowers the gynoecium was bent, probably because of the failure of the flower to open after stage 12 (Fig. 5C). In the most dramatic cases flowers did not progress developmentally beyond stages 11 or 12, anthers did not open, and stigmatic papillae and style were not formed in the gynoecium (Fig. 5F). About 25% of flowers developed petals with patches of green tissue. These patches presented epidermal cells characteristic of sepals, including stomata (Fig. 5I-K). Flowers with these characteristics were unable to produce siliques. However, these flowers developed fruits after manual pollination with pollen from wild-type plants suggesting that the absence of silique development could be due to the defects in stamen development. Interestingly, AtBRM-silenced flowers showed a phenotypic gradient: early-arising basipetal flowers had shorter petals and stamens than later-arising acropetal flowers. For example, in line 29.1 petal and stamen length of early-arising flowers were 1.26±0.09 and 0.88±0.29 mm, respectively, in contrast to the 1.96±0.22 and 1.91±0.09 mm of petals and stamens of later-arising flowers. Length of wild-type petals and stamens was 2.99±0.16 and 2.44±0.38 mm, respectively. Other flower phenotypes such as reduction in flower anthesis and anther dehiscence also ocurred in a basipetal to acropetal gradient. Accordingly, later-arising flowers were able to produce small siliques with a limited number of seeds. Thus, late-arising siliques produce 8.44±3.58 seeds per silique in atbrm 29.1 plants versus 55.71±9.39 seeds per silique in WT plants.    Phenotypic characteristics of AtBRM silenced flowers and inflorescences    [[FIGURE]] There were fewer flower buds in the inflorescence of atbrm plants compared with those of wild-type plants (Fig. 6A). This effect was more dramatic at the later stages of the life of the plant. Interestingly, this was accompanied with a progressive reduction in the size of the inflorescence meristem. The mean number of flowers at stages 1-3 produced by a wild-type inflorescence meristem is about six, irrespective of the age of the meristem (see Table 2). However, young atbrm inflorescence meristems (23 days after sowing) produced an average of about four stage 1-3 flowers, while older inflorescence meristems (38 days after sowing) produced an average of about 2.5 stage 1-3 flowers (Fig. 6B, Table 2). The size of floral meristems was not significantly affected.   [[FIGURE]] Next we analyzed the role of AtBRM in the floral transition. Flowering time is often assayed as the total number of leaves at anthesis of the first floral bud. However, since atbrm plants presented anthesis problems we decided to measure the floral transition time by the number of days from sowing to bolting or by the number of rosette leaves formed at bolting. Fig. 7A and Table 3 show that atbrm plants flowered earlier than wild-type Columbia plants, both in terms of numbers of days to bolting and number of rosette leaves. Early bolting was observed both under LD and under SD conditions. However, although atbrm plants exhibit a decrease in photoperiod sensitivity, they are not photoperiod insensitive since they flower earlier under LD than under SD photoregimen.   [[FIGURE]]    Bolting time phenotype of wild-type (Columbia) and AtBRM silenced plants  To determine the cause of the early flowering phenotype, transcript levels of several genes controlling flowering time were monitored at 10, 13 and 16 days after germination, when the transition to reproductive development is occurring. Experiments were carried out under SD conditions, where greater differences in flowering time were observed between wild-type and atbrm plants. Signals from the autonomous, and the vernalization-dependent flowering pathways govern the expression of the flowering repressor gene FLC (CITATION; CITATION). As shown in Fig. 7B, the levels of the FLC transcript were similar in wild-type and atbrm plants, suggesting that flowering pathways that converge on FLC are not altered in the absence of AtBRM. The decrease in photoperiod sensitivity of the atbrm plants suggested that AtBRM might affect the photoperiod-dependent flowering pathway. Signals from the photoperiod-dependent pathway control the expression of CONSTANS (CO), a putative transcription factor that is required to promote flowering under LD but not under SD conditions (CITATION). Under inductive conditions the abundance of CO transcripts increases during the last part of the light period and shows the highest level between the onset of the night and dawn (CITATION). Expression levels of CO mRNA were analyzed 9 hours after dawn, in wild-type and atbrm plants grown under SD conditions (10 hours light/14 hours dark). Under these conditions, CO mRNA levels were three- to fourfold higher in atbrm plants than in wild-type plants (Fig. 7C). It has been shown that CO promotes flowering by activating the expression of the FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) and SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CO 1 (SOC1) genes (CITATION). Therefore, we checked whether expression of these two genes was also altered in the absence of AtBRM. As shown in Fig. 7D,E, levels of the FT and SOC1 transcripts were also up-regulated in the atbrm plants with respect to wild-type plants.
!~MM~! Wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) plants were grown either in pots containing a mixture of compost and vermiculite (3:1) or aseptically in Petri dishes containing Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 1% (w/v) sucrose and 0.37% (w/v) Phytagel (Sigma). Plants were grown in a cabinet under long-day (16 hours light/8 hours dark) or short-day (10 hours light/14 hours dark) photoregimes at 23°C (day)/20°C (night), 70% relative humidity, and a light intensity of 130 μE m–2 s–1 supplied by white fluorescent lamps. Total cell extracts were carried out as described previously (CITATION). For nuclear extracts, nuclei were isolated as described previously (CITATION). For western blotting isolated nuclei were lysed in NIB [20 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.2), 2 mM EDTA, 0.5 mM EGTA, 0.5 mM spermidine, 0.15 mM spermine, 1 mM dithiothreitol, 40% (v/v) glycerol (CITATION)] supplemented with 1.5% (w/v) SDS. Total protein was determined by a modified Lowry procedure using ovoalbumin as the standard (CITATION). For size-exclusion chromatography nuclear proteins were extracted with 0.4 M (NH4)2SO4 in NIB buffer. After 30 minutes at 4°C, nuclear debris was pelleted by centrifugation and proteins were precipitated by adding 0.3 g/ml of ammonium sulphate. The protein pellet was resuspended in NIB and loaded into a Superose 6 HR 10/30 column (Amersham) connected to a HPLC. A partial AtBRM cDNA clone was obtained from ABRC (accession number H8A3T7). In addition, five partial overlapping cDNA fragments were generated by RT-PCR and cloned into pGEN-T. Primer sequences and details about cDNA reconstruction are available on request. The AtBRM cDNA was fully sequenced. EMBL Nucleotide Sequence Database accession number AJ703891. Yeast two-hybrid analysis was performed with the PROQUEST two-hybrid system (Invitrogen). A 2810 bp fragment of the AtBRM cDNA, encompassing amino acids 16 to 952 of the protein, was inserted in the pDBleu plasmid in phase with the GAL4 DNA binding domain (GBD-AtBRM16-952). Full length cDNAs for CHB4 (obtained from Kazusa DNA Research Institute, accession number AV524064) and BSH (provided by A. Jerzmanowski) were cloned into pPC86, in phase with the GAL4 activation domain (GAD-CHB4 and GAD-BSH). Interaction experiments were carried out in the yeast strain MaV203.β -galactosidase activity was determined using the colony lift assay and the liquid assay as recommended by the manufacturer's instructions. Two different anti-AtBRM rabbit polyclonal antibodies were raised against recombinant fusion proteins. To produce the AtBRMa antigen a fragment of the AtBRM cDNA encoding amino acids 1758-1920 was inserted into the pGEX4T plasmid in-frame with the glutathione S-transferase (GST). To produce the AtBRMb antigen, a fragment of the AtBRM cDNA encoding amino acids 2047-2187 was inserted into the pET24a plasmid in order to generate a 6× histidine-tagged version of the peptide. The fusion proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli and affinity purified on glutathione-Sepharose 4B (Amersham), and His-Bind resin matrix (Novagen), respectively. Purified AtBRMa and AtBRMb proteins were used to raise polyclonal antiserum in rabbit (α-AtBRMa and α-AtBRMb, respectively). For western blot analysis 10 μg of nuclear proteins were fractionated by SDS-PAGE and transferred to nitrocellulose membranes. The membrane was then blocked with PBS/0.5% (v/v) Tween 20/5% (w/v) fat-free milk power and incubated with the appropriate antisera (1/2000 dilution). Enhanced chemiluminescence (ECL) reagents (Amersham) were used for detection. RNA was isolated as described previously (CITATION) or by using the RNeasy Mini Kit (Qiagen). For northern blotting, 10 μg of total RNA were loaded per lane and electrophoresed in 1.2% agarose denaturing formaldehyde gels. Transfer to nylon membranes (Hybond N-plus; Amersham), prehybridization, hybridization and washes were performed as described in the Amersham instruction manual. Probes were labeled with [α-32P]dCTP using the Ready To Go labeling kit. For semi-quantitative RT-PCR, 5 μg of total RNA were used to generate the first-strand cDNA by using the SuperScript First-Strand Synthesis System for RT-PCR kit (Invitrogen). PCR amplification was performed using 2 μl of a 20μ l of RT reaction. Specific primers were used for 20 amplification cycles and DNA products were detected by Southern blot hybridization. The number of PCR cycles chosen was shown to be in the linear range of the reaction in a separate experiment. Primer sequences and details about the probes used for northern and Southern experiments are available on request. β-glucuronidase (GUS) activity was assayed according to the method of McConnell and Barton (CITATION). GUS activity was allowed to develop for 48 hours. For visualizing sectioned GUS stained samples, tissue was first GUS stained and then sectioned into resin. GUS-stained tissue was embedded in resin and sectioned according to standard procedures. SEM and histological analysis was carried out as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). To generate plants with reduced levels of expression of AtBRM, a 584 bp DNA fragment encompassing nucleotides 4558-5142 of the AtBRM cDNA, was amplified by PCR using primers that added XhoI and KpnI sites at the ends of one product and BamHI and ClaI sites at the ends of the other product. These two amplification products were then directionally cloned into pHANNIBAL (CITATION) to generate pHANNIBAL-AtBRM. Then the NotI-NotI fragment of pHANNIBAL-AtBRM was introduced into the NotI site of the binary vector pART27 to generate pART27-AtBRM-RNAi. To generate plants that expressed the GUS gene under the control of the AtBRM promoter and regulatory regions, two different DNA fragments containing 5′ upstream regions of the AtBRM gene were fused to the GUS gene. A 1371 bp fragment 5′ to the first exon of AtBRM (nucleotide 18870671 to 18872042) was cloned into pRITAI to generate pRITA-AtBRM-P. A 1707 fragment including the same region as in pRITA-AtBRM-P, plus the first exon and the first intron of AtBRM (nucleotide 18870671 to 18872375) was cloned into pRITAI to generate pRITA-AtBRM-PI. The NotI fragments of these plasmids were introduced into the binary vector pART27, to generate pAtBRM-P-GUS and pAtBRM-PI-GUS, respectively. Arabidopsis was transformed by the dipping method of (CITATION). Seeds from treated plants were collected and screened for kanamycin resistance. Transgenic plants identified in this generation were classified as T1 plants.
