!~ABS~! More than 50 distinct amino acid transporter genes have been identified in the genome of Arabidopsis, indicating that transport of amino acids across membranes is a highly complex feature in plants. Based on sequence similarity, these transporters can be divided into two major superfamilies: the amino acid transporter family and the amino acid polyamine choline transporter family. Currently, mainly transporters of the amino acid transporter family have been characterized. Here, a molecular and functional characterization of amino acid polyamine choline transporters is presented, namely the cationic amino acid transporter (CAT) subfamily. CAT5 functions as a high-affinity, basic amino acid transporter at the plasma membrane. Uptake of toxic amino acid analogs implies that neutral or acidic amino acids are preferentially transported by CAT3, CAT6, and CAT8. The expression profiles suggest that CAT5 may function in reuptake of leaking amino acids at the leaf margin, while CAT8 is expressed in young and rapidly dividing tissues such as young leaves and root apical meristem. CAT2 is localized to the tonoplast in transformed Arabidopsis protoplasts and thus may encode the long-sought vacuolar amino acid transporter.
!~RES~! The locus code and nomenclatures for all CAT family members in Arabidopsis are given in “Materials and Methods.” The first member of this family, CAT1, has been characterized at the functional level (CITATION). CAT5 is the closest homolog of CAT1 and is 64% identical to CAT1 on the protein level (Fig. 1). CAT8 shows slightly lower identity to CAT1 (55%). CAT1 and CAT2 are only 34% identical at the protein level. Using TM prediction programs (THMM; http://www.CBS.dk) the proteins of this family are likely to have 14 TM domains with both termini on the cytosolic side (Fig. 1). The sequences can be phylogenetically grouped into small subgroups (Fig. 1). Genes from different subbranches differ markedly in their exon-intron structure (e.g. CAT5 and CAT8 contain no intron, while CAT3 contains 14 introns). The intron sizes and location of splice sites, however, are roughly conserved in genes in each subbranch. [[FIGURE]] Several CAT proteins contain putative transit peptides for targeting to plastids. Both CAT6 and CAT7 are predicted to contain chloroplast transit peptides; CAT3 contains putative mitochondrial targeting signals, while CAT9 is predicted to be targeted to chloroplast or mitochondria (see Aramemnon database at http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de). Expression of each CAT member is documented by numerous expressed sequence tags (ESTs) in public databases. The only exception is CAT7, for which no EST or cDNA could be identified. Public microarray data (e.g. available at John Ward's Arabidopsis membrane protein library at http://www.cbs.umn.edu/arabidopsis/) document expression in many tissues for most of the CATs. According to the EST abundance, CAT2 is the highest expressed at the transcriptional level. The tissue specificity of CAT2 was determined by RNA gel blots. CAT2 mRNA was similarly expressed in root, stem, flower, sink leaf, source leaf, and silique (data not shown). The same expression profile was obtained using reverse transcription (RT)-PCR (Fig. 2). Using ACTIN2 as control, expression of all CAT members was identified by RT-PCR in roots, stems, flowers, and leaves (Fig. 2), except for CAT7. Thus, most CAT members are broadly expressed, and more detailed analysis is necessary to assign a cellular function to these genes. [[FIGURE]] Yeast has provided a genuine heterologous expression system for many plant nutrient and metabolite transporters. The yeast mutant 22Δ8AA, which lacks eight endogenous amino acid transport systems, was transformed with plasmids containing cDNAs of several CAT-family transporters. Yeast transformed with empty plasmid (pDR) was used as control. The yeast mutant 22Δ8AA is unable to efficiently utilize Arg, Asp, citrulline, γ-aminobutyric acid, Glu, or Pro as sole nitrogen sources. As expected from competition studies of His uptake (CITATION), expression of CAT1 in 22Δ8AA enhanced Arg, citrulline, and Glu import and supported growth on these substances as sole nitrogen sources. CAT5 behaved very similarly and complemented growth on Arg (Fig. 3), citrulline, and, to a lesser extent, Glu. Cells transformed with CAT2, CAT3, CAT6, or CAT8 showed no clear enhanced growth on media containing 1 mm Arg as sole nitrogen source (Fig. 3). Similar results were obtained on 1 mm citrulline and Glu (data not shown). Within 7 d, none of the CAT members mediated sufficient amino acid transport to enable growth on 3 mm Asp, Pro, or γ-aminobutyric acid. Growth of 22Δ6AAL (CITATION), a Lys auxotroph, was restored by expressing CAT1 or CAT5, but not by CAT2, CAT3, or CAT6 (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The inability of several CATs to support growth on Arg, Asp, Pro, γ-aminobutyric acid, or Lys might be due to poor targeting to the yeast plasma membrane, lost functionality, or a different substrate spectrum than CAT1 and CAT5. As shown below, it is likely that an altered substrate spectrum is responsible for the poor support of yeast growth. Direct l-[14C]Arg uptake was determined in 22Δ8AA carrying pDR-CAT5 and the same strain transformed with the empty plasmid. Uptake was linear over 20 min and was inhibited by the protonophore carbonyl cyanide 3-chlorophenylhydrazone (100 μm; Fig. 4A). Arg influx was pH dependent (Fig. 4B) with a bell-shaped optimum at pH 5, similar to other proton-coupled amino acid systems (CITATION; CITATION). Uptake was saturated at low Arg concentrations with a K0.5 = 12 μm (Fig. 4C). Glu was also taken up, but with a much lower affinity (K0.5 approximately 200 μm; data not shown). Arg transport was significantly inhibited only by basic amino acids, when supplied at 10-fold excess (Fig. 4D). Interestingly, some uncharged amino acids and even allantoin were also weak competitors. This may not necessarily indicate direct competition for the same binding site, but may be partially explained by unspecific lowering of the driving force for Arg. Allantoin and some amino acids are imported into the used yeast strain by H+-cotransport systems. The imported protons depolarize the yeast cells and reduce the driving force for the positively charged Arg and a possibly cotransported H+. In summary, the selectivity of CAT5 is thus similar to that of CAT1, both encoding high-affinity CATs. [[FIGURE]] As the activities of CAT2 and CAT3 were not successfully detected in yeast and to study the transport mechanism of CAT1 and CAT5 in more detail, several CAT transporters were expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Two unrelated amino acid transporters (AAP5, AAP6) that had been functionally expressed earlier in oocytes (CITATION) served as controls and were measured in parallel. While the AAPs generated large amino acid-dependent currents, no currents were observed with CATs (data not shown). This was somewhat surprising, as the experiments in the yeast system identified CAT1 and CAT5 as transporters for positively charged amino acids, suggesting that these substrates should generate substrate-induced currents. Direct l-[14C]Lys uptake measurements with oocytes expressing AAP5, CAT1, or CAT5 confirmed that only AAP5, but not CAT1 or CAT5, was functional at the plasma membrane of oocytes (data not shown). The yeast strain 22Δ8AA does not transport Arg, Asp, citrulline, γ-aminobutyric acid, Glu, or Pro, while other amino acids are transported efficiently. To test if other amino acids may be preferred or if CATs may be functional in detoxification of unwanted toxic amino acid analogs, a growth test on toxic amino acids was established. Yeast growth is sensitive to low concentrations of the Glu analog l-Met sulfoximine (MSX), an inhibitor of Gln synthetase. Yeast strains with increased amino acid import activity are more sensitive to MSX (CITATION). Similarly, the sensitivity to toxic (S)-2-amino-6-diazo-5-oxo-l-norleucine (DON), an analog of the neutral amino acid Gln, is expected to increase with higher uptake activity. DON inhibits Gln-requiring enzymes such as glucosamine-6-phosphate synthase (CITATION). The toxicity of the Arg analog canavanine has been used to identify basic amino acid transporters in yeast (CITATION). Sensitivity to toxic amino acids was found to be higher in the wild-type strain 23344c. Endogenous amino acid uptake is known to be strongly suppressed by high ammonium in wild-type yeast, largely due to suppression and lower uptake by general amino acid permease GAP1 (CITATION). Due to the higher sensitivity, the wild-type strain was used in the following experiments, but highly similar results were also obtained from similar experiments conducted with the 22Δ8AA strain (data not shown). The expression of functional amino acid transporters CAT1 and CAT5 increased the sensitivity of the mutant 22Δ8AA strain to canavanine, the toxic Arg analog, when supplemented to the medium containing 10 mm ammonium (Fig. 5). Thus, both transporters, which mediated efficient transport of Arg (Fig. 3), also transported its toxic analog, making yeast cells be more sensitive to this toxic drug. Expression of the other family members did not lead to increased sensitivity to canavanine, in accordance with the fact that they did not transport Arg in yeast growth assays. [[FIGURE]] CAT1 and CAT5 both increased the sensitivity to MSX and DON (Fig. 5), which fits their ability to transport Glu and the fact that Gln weakly competes for Arg in uptake experiments (Fig. 4D). CAT3, CAT6, and CAT8 also conferred higher sensitivity to toxic MSX and DON (Fig. 5), indicating that they mediate at least some uptake of these toxic amino acids. It should be noted that some transporters did confer sensitivity to the Glu analog MSX, although growth on Glu was not observed. However, the ability to grow on a single amino acid as sole nitrogen source requires high-capacity uptake of that specific amino acid, since all other amino acids and nucleotides need to be synthesized from that amino acid. In contrast, only low import of a toxic amino acid analog may be sufficient to confer toxicity. The inability of CAT3, CAT6, and CAT8 to mediate efficient uptake of basic amino acids, but their transport of neutral and acidic amino acid analogs, may suggest that the substrate spectrum of these transporters is different from that of CAT1 and CAT5. In all experimental conditions CAT2-transformed yeast were indistinguishable from vector-transformed controls. The expression pattern of the high-affinity/basic amino acid transporter CAT5 was analyzed by promoter activity analysis. As the neighboring gene is located only 0.5 kb upstream of the CAT5 open reading frame (ORF), Arabidopsis plants containing this fragment as promoter::β-glucuronidase (GUS) fusion were generated. When the transgenic Arabidopsis lines were examined with short histochemical staining periods (3–5 h), CAT5 promoter activity was visible only at the leaf rim (Fig. 6B), but intensive staining of cotyledons of developing seedlings was detected after long (24 h) incubation in staining solution (Fig. 6A). Promoter activity was identical in more than 10 lines and was not detected by short staining periods in older plants, with the exception of some staining in flowers (Fig. 6C), which explains the low abundance of transcript in roots using RT-PCR. Staining was also observed in seeds (Fig. 6A, inset). The expression pattern was compared to predictions of cis-acting regulatory elements using the PLACE database (CITATION). A TGACGT motif that strongly drives α-amylase expression during seedling development (CITATION) is identified −177 before the start ATG in the CAT5 promoter, in accordance with expression during early seedling development. [[FIGURE]] The expression pattern of the closest relative of CAT1 and CAT5 was also analyzed. GUS histochemical analysis was performed on transgenic Arabidopsis plants stably expressing a CAT8 promoter::GUS fusion, in which the 1.8-kb genomic sequence located upstream from the ATG, was driving GUS expression. Analysis of the CAT8 promoter::GUS plants identified expression in rapidly dividing cells of the shoot and root apical meristem and in young leaves and petioles during seedling development (Fig. 7A). At later developmental stages, staining was visible in flowers as well (Fig. 7B). In root tips, expression was absent from the columella and epidermis (Fig. 7C). Consistent with the expression pattern, an ACTTTA motif for apical meristem expression is identified at position −187 (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Fluorescence of CAT5-green fluorescent protein (GFP) in transiently transformed Arabidopsis protoplasts was restricted to the plasma membrane (Fig. 8A). CAT8-GFP also localized to the plasma membrane (Fig. 8B), but more than one-half of the protoplasts showed additional GFP fluorescence on intracellular membranes (Fig. 8C). [[FIGURE]] A possible explanation for the lack of function of CAT2 in heterologous systems is that the transporter might not be localized at the plasma membrane, but at intracellular membranes. To evaluate such a possibility, CAT2 was also fused with GFP at the carboxy terminus and transiently expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts. Confocal images from fluorescent proteins showed that CAT2-GFP localized to the tonoplast, implying a function in amino acid storage or export from the vacuole (Fig. 8D). In a few CAT2-GFP-expressing cells a punctuate fluorescence was additionally observed, and only some vacuoles were fluorescent (Fig. 8E). As control, GFP was also expressed alone (Fig. 8F).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis L. ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was grown either in axenic culture on Murashige and Skoog medium (CITATION) supplemented with 2% Suc or cultured in soil in the greenhouse. Arabidopsis plants were transformed using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (pMP90) with the floral dipping method (CITATION). Seeds were collected and germinated on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 50 μg/mL of kanamycin. Transformants were identified for the resistance to kanamycin and selected for further analyses. ORFs for CAT1 (At4g21120), CAT3 (At5g36940), CAT5 (At2g34960), and CAT6 (At5g04770) were amplified by PCR from a cDNA library from Arabidopsis ecoptype Landsberg (Ler; CITATION). CAT8 (At1g17120) was amplified from cDNA generated from seedling RNA from ecotype Col-0. CAT2 (At1g58030) was obtained as full cDNA clone containing 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions. Accession numbers of the other CATs are CAT4 (At3g03720), CAT7 (At3g10600), and CAT9 (At1g05940). The PCR primers contained appropriate sites for restriction enzymes to facilitate the subsequent cloning into expression vectors. The fidelity of PCR amplifications was verified by sequencing. cDNAs were inserted into the Xenopus laevis oocyte expression plasmid pOO2 (CITATION) and the yeast expression plasmid pDR196 (CITATION). Compared with the Col-0 sequence, the Ler CAT1 ORF has two silent basepair changes. CAT3 has 5-bp differences between the two ecotypes in the ORF, which lead to two amino acid exchanges in Ler (F13V and V563A). CAT5 was identical in both ecotypes. The Ler ORF of CAT6 has five silent differences compared to Col-0. Differences between ecotypes were verified by sequencing several independent PCR fragments from Ler genomic DNA. For C-terminal GFP fusion constructs the stop codons were removed by PCR and the respective ORFs were cloned in frame to the GFP gene driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. The promoters of CAT5 and CAT8 were amplified by PCR using Arabidopsis L. ecotype Col-0 genomic DNA as template. The CAT5 promoter was chosen as the region upstream from the ATG up to the neighboring gene and was only 455-bp long. A 1.8-kb fragment preceding the ATG was chosen as the CAT8 promoter. The amplified fragments were fused with the uidA gene in the binary expression vector pPTkan (a gift from Dr. Schumacher, Zentrum für Molekularbiologie der Pflanzen) and the constructs were used for transformation of A. tumefaciens. Gene-specific primers were designed for amplification of roughly approximate to 200- to 500-bp fragments, spanning an intron if available. Total RNA was extracted according to CITATION from 5-week-old greenhouse plants. Five micrograms of total RNA was converted to cDNA using the RevertAid H-M-MuLV Reverse Transcriptase (Fermentas, St. Leon-Rot, Germany). PCR was performed at an annealing temperature of 55°C and 25 cycles were used for CAT2, 28 cycles for CAT4 and CAT5, and 30 cycles for the other constructs. A 300-bp cDNA fragment of the constitutively expressed ACTIN2 gene was amplified simultaneously (25 cycles) and used as a control. RT-PCR was repeated on plants grown under different conditions (agar plates, hydroponic culture, soil) supplied with variable nitrogen sources and yielded highly similar results. Primers used were (5′ to 3′): Forward ACT2 GTGGGAATGGAAGCTGCTGG CAT1 CATCGCTATTAATATCTTCCTTC CAT2 GGTTGCAAGTACCGCAGAGG CAT3 GTGGATTGTTCCTTCTTGTCG CAT4 CTGTGTTCTTAGCTCGACAAAC CAT5 GTGAAGAGAGAGGATACTGG CAT6 CATCGGACGGTCCAGAGTGGTC CAT7 CGACCCGATAACCCGGAAAAC CAT8 GCATTGCTTCCGAAATATCGTG CAT9 GTCTCAATCTTAATCAGTATTG Reverse ACT2 GACCTGCCTCATCATACTCGG CAT1 CAGAACAAGAATTATCAGCAAC CAT2 GCTCATCTGGAGGAACATATCTT CAT3 GCGACGAATCTCCTGGAGATG CAT4 CGCTGCCCATTGCATCCCAC CAT5 AGTCCAGGCTCTAGCAACAGC CAT6 GGACGTAAGAGGGTGCGTCCAAC CAT7 CGTTTAGGTCGGTGAAGAGGG CAT8 GGCTGATGAGCTACATCATAGG CAT9 CAGCTAAACCCAGAACCTAGAG Histochemical assays for GUS activity were performed as described (CITATION). GUS staining solution contained 100 mm sodium phosphate (pH 7), 10 mm EDTA, 3 mm K4(Fe[CN]6), 0.5 mm K3(Fe[CN]6), 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100, 2 mm 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-GlcUA for 3 to 24 h at 37°C. Slight vacuum was applied to facilitate substrate infiltration. Tissues were cleared in 70% ethanol. The yeast strain 22Δ8AA (CITATION) was transformed with pDR vector containing cDNAs of CAT1, CAT2, CAT3, CAT5, CAT6, CAT8, or empty vector pDR196 by heat shock (CITATION). Transformants were selected on yeast nitrogen base media without uracil, supplemented with 0.5 g/L ammonium sulfate. Growth assays were performed in uracil-free media containing Asp (2 mm), Glu (1.5 mm), Pro (3 mm), Arg (1 mm), or citrulline (1 mm) as sole nitrogen source. Similar experiments were performed with Lys auxotroph strain 22Δ6AAL, but with media containing 100 μm Lys and 10 mm ammonium (CITATION). All experiments were repeated multiple times with independent colonies from different batches of transformants. For growth on toxic amino acid analogs, the EUROFAN (http://mips.gsf.de/proj/eurofan/) wild-type yeast strain 23344c (MATα, ura3) was used. Cells expressing different CATs were adjusted to the same density and spotted at several dilutions on yeast nitrogen base plates containing 10 mm ammonium sulfate and MSX or DON at the indicated concentrations. Toxic analogs and amino acids were obtained from Sigma (St. Louis). The fusion proteins CAT-GFP were observed by confocal microscopy (Leica DMRE microscope equipped with a confocal head TCS SP; Leica, Wetzlar, Germany) 1 or 2 d following the transformation of protoplasts from an Arabidopsis suspension cell culture (CITATION). Yeast cells were grown to logarithmic phase harvested at OD600 of 0.5, washed, and resuspended in ice-cold buffer (50 mm KPi, pH 5.0, 0.6 m sorbitol) to a final OD of 5. One hundred microliters of cells were preincubated with 10 μL of 1 m Glc (30°C, 5 min). Uptake was initiated by the addition of 110 μL of radioactive substrate mixture, containing l-[14C]Arg (11.2 GBq/mmol; Amersham Biosciences, Freiburg, Germany), and unlabeled Arg of the desired concentration was added. Linear uptake rates were determined over 5 min. Samples were removed after 1, 2, 3, and 5 min, transferred to 4 mL of ice-cold buffer, filtered on glass fiber filters, and washed twice with 4 mL of buffer. Radioactivity was determined by liquid scintillation spectrometry. Endogenous uptake activity of yeast transformed with empty vector pDR196 was subtracted as background activity. Transport measurements were repeated independently and represent the mean of two experiments. Competition experiments were performed with 12 μm of 14C-labeled Arg and a 10-fold excess of respective amino acids. The protocol has been published earlier (CITATION). Briefly, cRNA was synthesized and injected (50 nL) into individual oocytes. After 3 to 5 d of incubation in ND96, currents were recorded in solution containing 100 mm choline-Cl, 1 mm CaCl2, 1 mm MgCl2, and 5 mm MES, buffered to pH 5.0 with Tris, supplemented with variable concentrations of different amino acids. Functional amino acid transporters AAP5 and AAP6 were used as positive controls (CITATION). Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession numbers At4g21120, At5g36940, At2g34960, At5g04770, At1g17120, At1g58030, At3g03720, At3g10600, and At1g05940.
