!~ABS~! In Arabidopsis, the EMBYRONIC FLOWER2 (EMF2), VERNALISATION2 (VRN2) and FERTILISATION INDEPENDENT ENDOSPERM2 (FIS2) genes encode related Polycomb-group (Pc-G) proteins. Their homologues in animals act together with other Pc-G proteins as part of a multimeric complex, Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2), which functions as a histone methyltransferase. Despite similarities between the fis2 mutant phenotype and those of some other plant Pc-G members, it has remained unclear how the FIS2/EMF2/VRN2 class Pc-G genes interact with the others. We have identified a weak emf2 allele that reveals a novel phenotype with striking similarity to that of severe mutations in another Pc-G gene, CURLY LEAF (CLF), suggesting that the two genes may act in a common pathway. Consistent with this, we demonstrate that EMF2 and CLF interact genetically and that this reflects interaction of their protein products through two conserved motifs, the VEFS domain and the C5 domain. We show that the full function of CLF is masked by partial redundancy with a closely related gene, SWINGER (SWN), so that null clf mutants have a much less severe phenotype than emf2 mutants. Analysis in yeast further indicates a potential for the CLF and SWN proteins to interact with the other VEFS domain proteins VRN2 and FIS2. The functions of individual Pc-G members may therefore be broader than single mutant phenotypes reveal. We suggest that plants have Pc-G protein complexes similar to the Polycomb Repressive Complex2 (PRC2) of animals, but the duplication and subsequent diversification of components has given rise to different complexes with partially discrete functions.
!~RES~! To identify genes acting like CLF to repress floral homeotic gene expression during vegetative development, we screened existing mutant collections for plants with a similar leaf curling and early flowering phenotype. We identified a single recessive mutation, designated moe leaf, which conferred a phenotype resembling, but more severe than, clf mutations. Subsequent genetic analysis (see next section) revealed that it was an unusual, weak emf2 allele. We hereafter refer to it as the emf2-10 allele but retain the name `moe leaf' to describe the phenotype. Both emf2-10 and clf mutants flowered early under both long days and short days (Table 1). However, emf2-10 plants were significantly earlier flowering than clf-50 plants, which carried a null clf allele isolated in the same genetic background as emf2-10. Both mutants gave small, dwarfed plants that had short slender inflorescence stems and narrow leaves that curled upwards along the leaf margin (Fig. 1A,B). emf2-10 plants were smaller than clf-50 plants (Fig. 1A) and, unlike clf, also had cotyledons that were smaller than in wild-type plants (Fig. 1C). Comparison of emf2-10 and wild-type leaf epidermal surfaces by SEM showed that both had pavements of large cells with irregular outline (Fig. 2A,B). Unlike wild-type leaves, which had flat surfaces, the ventral (abaxial, lower) epidermis of emf2-10 leaves was uneven and corrugated (Fig. 2B). One possibility, which is also consistent with the upward curling of the leaves, is that growth of the ventral leaf surface was constrained by the dorsal surface during leaf development, leading to the observed corrugation. When leaves were frozen and fractured, so that they could be viewed in transverse section by SEM, emf2-10 leaves had a similar arrangement of cell types as in wild type (Fig. 2C,D), but the cells were smaller than wild type and there were also many fewer cells in the leaf length and leaf width axes (data not shown). The emf2-10 mutation therefore affects cell proliferation as well as cell size. Similarly, morphometric analysis has shown that clf mutant leaves also show reductions in both cell number and cell size (CITATION).    Effect of emf2-10 and clf-50 mutations on rosette leaf number    [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] The inflorescences of emf2-10 plants produced few flowers. In wild type, the primary inflorescence produced 25-30 flowers before arresting development. In emf2-10, after 6-12 flowers had opened, the remaining flower buds arrested development so that the inflorescence subsequently appeared determinate. The flowers of emf2-10 plants mostly had normal organ identity but were smaller than wild type, and petals and sepals were narrower than in wild type (Fig. 1D). The flower buds often opened later than normal, after fertilisation had occurred, so that the elongation of the developing silique (fruit) was constrained and the siliques became bent or folded over (Fig. 1E, Fig. 2E). This suggested that the sepals were impeding bud opening. Wild-type sepals have a hyaline margin, distinguishable under SEM as a region of regularly sized cells that lack the extremely elongated cells found elsewhere on the sepal (Fig. 2F). In emf2-10 flowers the margin was less well defined, so that the elongated cells often extended to the margin (Fig. 2G). In addition, the sepals were more concave or boat shaped than wild type. Both features may have contributed to restricting bud opening. As with clf mutants, emf2-10 flowers produced late in development showed weak homeotic transformation of sepals to carpels (Fig. 1F, Fig. 2H) and petals to stamens (Fig. 2I,J). The similarities in phenotypes suggested that the moe leaf phenotype, like that of clf mutants, could be caused by misexpression of floral homeotic genes during vegetative and floral development. Previous studies have shown that the AG and AP3 genes, whose expression is normally confined to flowers, are misexpressed in leaves of clf mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We therefore used RT PCR to compare AG and AP3 expression in leaves of wild-type and emf2-10 plants. This indicated that both genes were expressed in emf2-10 leaves (data not shown). To confirm this, we introduced reporter constructs for AG and AP3 expression into the emf2-10 background. The pAG-I::GUS construct contains AG upstream promoter sequences and intragenic sequences fused to the GUS reporter and has been shown to contain the cis-acting sequences necessary for repression by CLF (CITATION). This construct was strongly misexpressed in seedlings of both emf2-10 and clf-2 mutants (Fig. 1G,H). In addition, both mutants showed misexpression in inflorescence stems (Fig. 1J,K) and occasional misexpression in the outer floral whorls. We also tested reporter constructs containing the AG second intron upstream of a GUS reporter gene (KB9) (CITATION). This construct also confers the wild-type AG expression pattern in flowers, presumably because the second intron contains many AG regulatory elements (CITATION). However, when the KB9 construct was introduced into clf or emf2-10 mutant backgrounds, no expression was seen in seedlings (data not shown). This suggested that the AG promoter contains additional enhancers that are required for misexpression of AG in clf and emf2-10 mutant backgrounds. An AP3 reporter construct containing 3.7 kb of upstream regulatory sequences (CITATION) also showed weak expression in emf2-10 and clf seedlings but not wild-type (Fig. 1L,M). Genetic data have indicated that the phenotype of clf mutants is chiefly caused by ectopic AG expression. Thus in clf ag double mutant plants, in which AG activity is eliminated, leaf morphology is restored to near wild-type (CITATION; CITATION). To test whether the moe leaf phenotype was also a result of ectopic AG activity, we made emf2-10 ag-2 double mutants. Although the double mutants had larger, less curled leaves than emf2-10 single mutants, there was less restitution of wild-type morphology than in the case of clf ag double mutants. Thus emf2-10 ag-2 plants were still much smaller than wild type, their leaves retained some curling, and they flowered earlier (Fig. 1N). This indicated that although AG+ activity contributes to the moe leaf phenotype, misexpression of other genes is also probably involved. Taken together, these results indicated that EMF2 and CLF shared common functions in repressing floral homeotic gene expression, with EMF2 required to repress a broader range of targets than CLF. These similarities suggested that EMF2 might act in a common pathway with CLF. To determine the molecular basis for the moe leaf phenotype, we employed a map-based cloning strategy and initially localised the mutation responsible to a 10 cm interval between markers nga129 and ATTED2 on the lower arm of chromosome 5. It was striking that the plant Pc-G member EMF2 had also been located within this interval. All nine emf2 mutant alleles previously described have much more severe phenotypes than moe leaf, producing minute plants that appear to flower soon after germination without undergoing a prior phase of vegetative development (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Instead, a few flowers and sessile cauline leaves are produced on an inflorescence with a severely shortened bolt (Fig. 1O, Fig. 3C). However, several features made EMF2 a promising candidate. Firstly, it was known to repress floral homeotic gene expression during vegetative development (CITATION; CITATION). Secondly, transgenic plants that expressed an antisense EMF2 construct had a phenotype resembling moe leaf, which probably reflected a partial loss of EMF2 function (CITATION). To test whether the moe leaf phenotype could be caused by an unusual, weak allele of EMF2, we performed genetic complementation tests. Because emf2 mutants are sterile, and moe leaf plants have low fertility, we crossed heterozygotes for the two mutations. The resulting F1 population of 254 plants contained 71 mutants, consistent with the two mutations being allelic (1/4 mutants expected, χ2=1.2 P>0.1). We designated the new mutation responsible for the moe leaf phenotype as the emf2-10 allele. The phenotype of emf2-10/emf2-3 heterozygotes was intermediate between that of the two parental alleles, consistent with emf2-10 being a weaker allele than emf2-3 (Fig. 1O). To identify the lesion causing the emf2-10 mutation, we compared the sequence of the EMF2 locus from emf2-10 and the wild-type progenitor. This revealed that the emf2-10 allele carried a 17 bp deletion extending from the 3′ end of the second exon (9 bp) into the 5′ end of intron 2 (8 bp) followed by a cytosine to guanine substitution (see Fig. S1A,C in the supplementary material). Because this deletion was predicted to affect splicing of the EMF2 pre-mRNA, we used RT-PCR to amplify EMF2 cDNA from emf2-10 and wild-type seedlings. Whereas a single message corresponding to the spliced EMF2 transcript was detected in wild type cDNA, five novel transcripts were identified in emf2-10 cDNA (see Fig. S1B in the supplementary material). Molecular cloning and sequencing of these aberrant transcripts indicated that four contained frameshift mutations likely to abolish EMF2 activity. However, one transcript was predicted to produce a variant EMF2 protein that was truncated by 17 amino acids at the N-terminus (see Fig. S1C in the supplementary material). The region deleted does not correspond to a conserved region or to a known functional domain, so the variant protein is likely to retain EMF2+ activity. The weak emf2 phenotype may arise because only a small fraction (about 20%) of the various emf2-10 transcripts are likely to produce a functional protein. In addition, the resulting truncation of the protein may also reduce its activity.   [[FIGURE]] The similarity in phenotypes of severe alleles of CLF and weak alleles of EMF2 suggested that the two genes might act in a common genetic pathway. To test for a genetic interaction we therefore combined weak alleles of CLF and EMF2 by constructing the clf-9 emf2-10 double mutant. The weak clf-9 allele was derived from the severe clf-2 allele by an imprecise excision of a transposon from the CLF locus (P. Puangsomlee, Phd thesis, University of East Anglia, 1997) (CITATION). clf-9 plants are very similar to wild type but are slightly smaller, show earlier flowering under short days and very weak leaf curling (Fig. 3A). A synergistic interaction was observed, so that the double mutant had a much more extreme phenotype than either parent, producing extremely small plants with few, sessile leaves and very short inflorescences (Fig. 3A,B). The double mutant phenotype therefore resembled that of severe emf2 alleles such as emf2-3 (Fig. 3C). A similar phenotype was also observed in double mutant combinations of the null clf-2 allele and weak emf2-10 (Fig. 3D). In double mutant combinations of severe emf2-3 and severe clf alleles, emf2 was epistatic to clf (not shown). In general these observations were consistent with the two genes acting in a common pathway. The severity of the clf emf2 double mutant phenotype suggested that it was unlikely to result simply from misexpression of AG. To confirm this, we constructed ag-1 clf-2 emf2-10 triple mutants. The triple mutants were minute plants, similar to severe emf2 mutants in size, and had 1-3 flowers with normal petals and ag– phenotype (Fig. 3E). This indicated that AG misexpression was not responsible for the severe effects of clf emf mutants on overall plant size, but did account for the poor development of petals in clf emf mutant flowers (Fig. 3D). To test whether the genetic interaction of CLF and EMF2 might reflect a direct interaction between their protein products, we performed yeast two-hybrid assays. We expressed full-length EMF2 protein, and a series of EMF2 truncations, as `prey' fusions with the GAL4 transcriptional activation (TA) domain. We tested these fusion proteins for interaction with a `bait' comprising a fusion of a truncated CLF protein (lacking the C-terminal SET domain) with the GAL4 DNA-binding domain. We did not observe an interaction between full-length EMF2 proteins with CLF in yeast. However, yeast strains expressing both CLF and a C-terminal portion of EMF2 expressed both two-hybrid reporter genes, consistent with the two proteins interacting (Fig. 4A). The C-terminal portion of EMF2 contained the VEFS domain, a motif originally defined on the basis of its conservation between plant and animal homologues of the Su(z)12 protein (CITATION). It was not clear why the full-length EMF2 protein, which includes the VEFS box, did not also interact with CLF.   [[FIGURE]] To define the region of CLF that is required for interaction with EMF2, we tested a series of CLF truncations as baits with the EMF2 VEFS box prey construct (Fig. 4B). We thus mapped the interaction to a short 74 amino acid region of CLF that contains the C5 domain. The C5 domain contains five cysteine residues whose presence and spacing is conserved between plant, Drosophila, nematode and vertebrate E(z) homologues (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). No function has previously been ascribed to this domain. To verify the interaction between CLF and EMF2 in an independent system, we first used the yeast split-ubiquitin assay, which differs from the two-hybrid assay in that candidate proteins are fused to portions of the ubiquitin protein and the fusions are expressed in the cytoplasm rather than the nucleus (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Again, we observed an interaction of CLF with the VEFS box domain of EMF2 (Fig. 4C). Secondly, to confirm that CLF and EMF2 interact directly, we performed in-vitro binding assays (Fig. 4D). Both proteins were expressed in E. coli, the C5 domain of CLF as a glutathione-S-transferase (GST) fusion and the EMF2 VEFS domain as a HIS6-tagged fusion. As shown in Fig. 4D, the HIS6-EMF2 VEFS protein bound to GST–CLF C5 (lane B) but not to GST alone (lane C), suggesting a direct physical interaction between the proteins. Thus, the CLF C5 domain and EMF2 VEFS domain bound to each other in vitro as well as in yeast. The Arabidopsis FIS genes FIS2 and MEA encode homologues of EMF2 and CLF, respectively. Although the FIS2 and MEA genes share extremely similar mutant phenotypes, suggesting that their products may interact, we were previously unable to demonstrate any interaction between the full-length proteins using the two-hybrid assay (CITATION). However, the observation that the interaction of EMF2 with CLF was mediated by the VEFS box domain suggested that FIS2 and MEA might also interact via the VEFS box. We therefore specifically tested the VEFS box of FIS2 against MEA in two-hybrid assay and in this case were able to demonstrate an interaction (Fig. 5A).   [[FIGURE]] The genetic and molecular interactions between CLF and EMF2 suggested that their protein products probably acted in a common complex. However, two observations were at odds with this scenario: firstly, null clf alleles had much less severe phenotypes than null emf2 alleles; secondly, the phenotype of null clf alleles was enhanced by emf2 mutant alleles. One possible explanation was that the CLF gene showed redundancy, so that even in a null clf background, a similar activity was provided by other genes. This seemed a possibility because the Arabidopsis genome contains two other genes with strong similarity to CLF. The first, MEA, shows expression confined to the female gametophyte and early seed development and is therefore unlikely to overlap significantly with CLF, which is expressed predominantly during vegetative and inflorescence development (CITATION; CITATION). The second gene, accession At4g02020 [referred to as EZA1 by Luo et al. (CITATION)], had not been genetically characterised. We designated this gene SWINGER (SWN), because our subsequent analysis of its protein product and mutant phenotype indicated a potential to share partners with the CLF protein (see below). Phylogenetic analysis of plant E(z) homologues (Fig. 5B) indicated that SWN and CLF belonged to distinct clades that can be clearly distinguished even in species distantly related to Arabidopsis, for example maize and rice. The duplication event that gave rise to CLF and SWN was therefore an ancient one within the angiosperm lineage. In addition, the CLF and SWN clades were clearly much more similar to one another than either was to MEA, suggesting that the function of SWN was more likely to resemble that of CLF than MEA. To determine the SWN expression pattern, we localised its mRNA by in-situ hybridisation to sections of seedlings and inflorescences. SWN was expressed throughout the apical meristem and leaf primordia of 8-day-old wild-type seedlings (Fig. 6A,B). Expression was also detected in the vasculature of hypocotyls and cotyledons (Fig. 6B). In inflorescences, SWN was expressed throughout the inflorescence meristem and young stage 1-3 floral meristems (Fig. 6C). In older flowers, expression was weak in the sepals and stronger in the inner whorls containing developing petals, stamens and carpels (Fig. 6D,E). In stage 12 flowers, strongest expression occurred in the ovules, particularly in the funiculus and maternal tissues of the ovule (Fig. 6F). Expression was also seen in the female gametophyte, but the tissues were too poorly preserved to distinguish the different cell types within the gametopyhte (Fig. 6F). Little signal was observed when seedlings and inflorescences were hybridised with a probe from the sense strand of the SWN cDNA (Fig. 6G,H), confirming that the signal was specific for the SWN antisense probe. As a positive control, we also hybridised seedlings with a probe for the WUSCHEL (WUS) gene and detected expression confined to the centre of the shoot meristem (Fig. 6I) as previously described (CITATION). The SWN expression pattern was therefore similar to that of CLF (CITATION), with both genes being generally expressed during vegetative and reproductive development but with strongest expression in meristems and other regions of dividing cells.   [[FIGURE]] To test whether the SWN protein had similar properties to those of CLF, we compared their interactions in yeast two-hybrid assays. We observed an interaction between the EMF2 VEFS domain and both of the CLF or the SWN C5 domains, indicating that SWN had similar potential to interact with EMF2 to that of CLF (Fig. 5C,D). We further tested whether CLF and SWN could interact with the related Arabidopsis VEFS domain proteins FIS2 and VRN2. Both were able to interact with FIS2 and VRN2 in yeast, indicating a potential for one or both to function in the FIS and vernalisation response pathways (Fig. 5C,D). In addition, we found that both CLF and SWN can interact with FIE through a 110 amino acid motif at their N-termini (see Fig. S2 in the supplementary material) (CITATION). Thus SWN and CLF showed similar interactions with both EMF2 and FIE in yeast. Taken together, the similarities in expression pattern and protein–protein interactions confirmed the potential for the CLF and SWN genes to act redundantly. To identify the function of SWN, we exploited facilities for reverse genetics in Arabidopsis to identify a series of mutant alleles caused by T-DNA insertions within the locus. The swn-1 allele contained an insertion 3 bp upstream of the predicted ATG start codon. This allele is unlikely to be null, as RT-PCR analysis of swn-1 mRNA revealed chimeric transcripts that initiated within the T-DNA insertion and extended the full length of the SWN coding sequences (data not shown). The swn-2 insertion is within an intron and swn-3 within an exon, but both are upstream of the catalytic SET domain and are therefore likely to represent null alleles. All three alleles were viable as homozygotes and had no obvious phenotype that we could discern from inspection of gross plant morphology, embryo or endosperm development (data not shown). However, all three alleles strongly enhanced the clf mutant phenotype in clf swn double mutant combinations, confirming that the two genes exhibit redundancy. The swn-1 allele gave a less severe enhancement than did swn-2 or swn-3, consistent with its being a weaker allele. The swn-1 clf-50 double mutant gave extremely small, early flowering plants with few flowers that resembled emf2 mutants (Fig. 3F,G). SEM analysis indicated that the floral organs showed weak homeotic conversion to carpelloid structures (Fig. 2K). In addition, filamentous organs were observed in place of stipules, a phenotype that has also been observed in plants that have a partial loss of FIE+ activity (CITATION). Double mutants of the null clf-50 allele with either swn-2 or swn-3 were more extreme, and viable plants were recovered only when seedlings were grown in sterile tissue culture. The seed germinated and produced seedlings with narrow, but relatively normal, cotyledons, hypocotyl and roots. As the plants aged they became increasingly abnormal. The cotyledons developed finger-like projections on their margins. The shoot apex did not initiate leaves, but instead developed into a disorganised mass of green tissue on which poorly differentiated organs formed (Fig. 3H). In SEM analysis of the plants, the epidermi of these organs lacked trichomes and comprised small, isodiametric cells, which did not have the surface cuticular thickening or elongated cell shape that is characteristic of epidermal surfaces of most of the mature floral organs (Fig. 2M,N). In addition, colourless callus-like tissue formed and eventually gave rise to somatic embryos and roots (Fig. 3H,I). Unlike the single mutants, which had normal roots, the primary root of the double mutants became opaque, swollen and eventually produced green shoot-like tissue (Fig. 3J). A similar phenotype has been observed in seedlings of rescued fie homozygotes (CITATION). Together, these observations suggested that weak clf-50 swn-1 double mutants resembled emf2 mutants, whereas the null clf swn doubles were more extreme and resembled plants lacking FIE+ activity. Although the above data suggest that the CLF and SWN genes have very similar functions, the fact that clf mutants have a clear phenotype indicates that SWN is not identical in function to CLF, at least with respect to repression of AG. This might be due to subtle differences in level of expression between CLF and SWN, and/or changes in protein function. To clarify whether differences are solely due to changes in expression, we expressed full-length cDNA clones for each gene under control of a common promoter (the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter) and introduced the two transgenes into the null clf-50 mutant background. Whereas the 35S::CLF construct fully complemented the clf-50 mutation, the 35S:SWN construct did not (Fig. 7). There are therefore subtle differences in function between the CLF and SWN proteins, as might be expected given the persistence of the CLF/SWN duplication within angiosperms. Expression of 35S::MEA failed to complement the clf-50 mutation, indicating that the MEA protein has also diverged from CLF (Fig. 7).   [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The clf-2 and clf-9 alleles arose in Ler background and were described previously (CITATION). The null clf-50 allele (Ws background) was provided by E. Huala and harbours a deletion spanning the CLF locus (J.G., unpublished). The weak emf2-10 allele arose in Ws background during a T-DNA mutagenesis experiment and was provided by M. Running. The weak swn-1 allele (Ws background) was identified in seed pool 5887 in the University of Wisconsin Arabidopsis knockout collection (CITATION). The swn-1 line also carried an unlinked, recessive mutation conferring late flowering. The line was backcrossed twice to the Ws progenitor and swn-1 lines with and without the late flowering mutation were generated. The severe swn-2 and swn-3 alleles (Columbia background) were obtained from the SIGNAL collection of T-DNA insertion lines (CITATION) and correspond to accessions SALK 010213 and SALK 050195, respectively. The position of the T-DNA inserts was confirmed by PCR amplification and sequencing of genomic DNA flanking the inserts. Constructs for yeast two-hybrid analysis were generated using the vectors pGBT9 and pGAD424 (Clontech) that express protein fusions to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain or transcriptional-activation domain, respectively. cDNA inserts encoding plant Pc-G proteins were introduced as EcoRI/SalI fragments. The Quik Change site-directed mutagenesis system (Stratagene) was used to introduce in-frame EcoRI and SalI restriction sites within cDNA clones, with the exception of EMF2 clones, which were generated by PCR amplification using mutagenic primers. PCR-generated clones were validated by sequence analysis. The methods for two-hybrid analysis were as described in the yeast protocols handbook (Clontech). The analysis was performed in yeast strain Hf7c (CITATION), which carries HIS3 and LacZ reporters for reconstituted GAL4 activity, or in strain AH109 (CITATION), which carries HIS3 and ADE2 reporters. Vectors were used as described in Kim et al. (CITATION). CLF-C5 was cloned into pENTRY 3c (Invitrogen) and recombined into the bait vector using the Gateway system (Invitrogen), resulting in a CLF-C5-Cub-URA3 gene fusion. EMF2-VEFS was fused to a gene encoding the N-terminal part of ubiquitin in the vector pCGK. The plasmids were transformed into the Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain JD53 and interaction of the fusion proteins was monitored as ability to grow on 5-fluoroorotic acid (5-FOA) plates, containing yeast nitrogen base without amino acids (Difco) and glucose, supplemented with lysine, leucine, uracil, and 1 mg/ml 5-FOA. A similar protocol to that described in Kohler et al. (CITATION) was applied. The coding region for the CLF C5 domain (amino acids 257-331) was cloned into the pGEX-4T expression vector (Amersham) as a GST-fusion, whereas the EMF2 VEFS domain (amino acids 427-631) was cloned in the pET30a expression vector (Novagen) as a HIS6-fusion. Escherichia coli strain BL21 DE3 Codon-plus (Stratagene) was freshly transformed with the pGEX-CLF-C5, pGEX or pET-EMF2-VEFS plasmids and grown in LB medium at 37°C overnight. After diluting the cultures 1:100 in 250 ml LB, they were grown at 37°C (pGEX-CLF-C5 and pGEX) or 18°C (pET-EMF2-VEFS) until OD600=0.7. Production of recombinant protein was induced by adding isopropyl-β-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) to 0.2 mM and after growing the cells for 3 hours at 18°C, they were harvested and resuspended in 4 ml binding buffer [BB; 20 mM Tris pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% Triton X100, 1 μM ZnSO4, 1 mM Pefabloc (Roche)]. The cells were lysed by the addition of Lysozyme to 2 mg/ml and incubated for 20 minutes on ice. The solution was centrifuged (20,000 g) for 10 minutes, the pellets discarded, centrifuged again and a 100 μl sample of supernatant was mixed with SDS sample buffer and frozen in liquid nitrogen (input control sample). Equal volumes of extract containing HIS6-EMF2-VEFS were mixed with extracts containing GST-CLF-C5 or GST and 150 μl of pre-equilibrated glutathione-sepharose 4B beads (Pharmacia) and incubated with shaking for 2 hours at 4°C. The beads were washed four times with BB and then mixed with SDS sample buffer, analysed on protein blots and the HIS6-EMF2-VEFS fusion detected with anti-HIS6-antibodies (New England Biolabs). Constructs for expression of CLF, SWN and MEA cDNAs under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter were assembled using the pART7 and pART27 vector systems (CITATION). A full-length SWN cDNA clone (pda05864) was obtained from the Riken Bioresource centre, Japan (CITATION), CLF and MEA cDNA clones were isolated previously (CITATION; CITATION). The Quik Change site-directed mutagenesis system (Stratagene) was used to engineer restriction sites within the cDNA clones that facilitated subcloning the coding sequences into pART7. The constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium strain GV3101 pMP90 (CITATION) and used to transform clf-50/+ heterozygotes by floral dip transformation (CITATION). At least 23 primary transformants were identified for each construct. Selected plants in the T1 and T2 generations were genotyped for presence of a transgene and for clf-50 and CLF+ alleles by Southern blot analysis. The methods for in-situ hybridisation analysis using digoxigenin-labelled mRNA probes were described previously (CITATION). SWN probes were generated from a poorly conserved 700 bp region at the 5′ end of the SWN coding region. WUS probes were generated using the clone pMH WUS 16, generously provided by R. Simon. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was performed on a Hitachi 4700 with a Gatan Alto cryo-stage. The methods for cryo-SEM were as described previously (CITATION). For measuring cell sizes, fully expanded rosette leaves were fractured in transverse section and photographed using the cryo-SEM. The cell outlines were traced onto transparencies, scanned, and quantified using image analysis software (image tool, University of Texas, available at http://ddsdx.uthscsa.edu/dig).
