!~ABS~! A small organizing center, the quiescent center (QC), maintains stem cells in the Arabidopsis root and defines the stem cell niche. The phytohormone auxin influences the position of this niche by an unknown mechanism. Here, we identify the PLETHORA1 (PLT1) and PLT2 genes encoding AP2 class putative transcription factors, which are essential for QC specification and stem cell activity. The PLT genes are transcribed in response to auxin accumulation and are dependent on auxin response transcription factors. Distal PLT transcript accumulation creates an overlap with the radial expression domains of SHORT-ROOT and SCARECROW, providing positional information for the stem cell niche. Furthermore, the PLT genes are activated in the basal embryo region that gives rise to hypocotyl, root, and root stem cells and, when ectopically expressed, transform apical regions to these identities. Thus, the PLT genes are key effectors for establishment of the stem cell niche during embryonic pattern formation.
!~RES~! Candidate genes encoding transcription factors that specify root stem cells have not emerged from forward genetic screens. We therefore adapted a promoter trap strategy to screen for transcription factors specifically expressed in the distal root. We screened expression patterns in ∼15,000 T-DNA insertion lines harboring a promoterless β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene adjacent to the right border of the T-DNA CITATION. We identified two lines (COL148 and QC3) in which GUS staining was observed exclusively in the distal region of the RM. COL148 showed staining in a relatively broad region including QC, surrounding stem cells, and columella root cap cells CITATION. In QC3, weaker staining was observed mainly in the QC and surrounding stem cells (data not shown). The COL148 line carries a recessive mutation that causes production of extra cells in columella root cap and the QC CITATION. The same phenotype occurs in the QC3 line, although with a lower penetrance. Complementation tests showed that the two lines carry allelic mutations. Based on the excess of columella and QC cells, we designated the mutations in COL148 and QC3 as plethora1-1 (plt1-1) and plt1-2, respectively. The plt1-1 and plt1-2 alleles carry T-DNA insertions in the promoter region of the At3g20840 gene at 1.2 and 5.4 kb upstream of the predicted coding region, respectively CITATION. The insertion in plt1-1 cosegregates with the mutant phenotype (see Experimental Procedures), indicating that the T-DNA insertion causes the phenotype of this allele. Furthermore, three independent insertion alleles within the At3g20840 coding region display essentially the same phenotype as plt1-1 (CITATION; see below). We therefore concluded that At3g20840 is the PLT1 gene. In situ RNA hybridization detected a PLT1-specific signal in the QC, surrounding stem cells, and the uppermost layer of differentiated columella cells, similar to the GUS staining pattern of the plt1-1 promoter trap line (compare CITATION). No signal was detected in plt1-1 homozygotes CITATION, indicating that this allele causes a severe reduction of expression of the gene and may be a null. In plt1-2 homozygotes, the signal was highly reduced but still detectable, consistent with the weaker phenotype of this allele (data not shown). We isolated a full-length PLT1 cDNA (GenBank AY506549). The predicted PLT1 protein is a member of the AINTEGUMENTA-like (AIL) subclass of the AP2/EREBP family of transcription factors (CITATION; B. Krizek, personal communication) and contains two repeats of the conserved AP2 DNA binding domain (residues 179–255 and 281–349) and the conserved linker region (residues 256–280) (CITATION and Supplemental Figure S1 at http://www.cell.com/cgi/content/full/119/1/109/DC1/). A bipartite nuclear targeting sequence is predicted in residues 364–380. A GFP-PLT1 fusion protein preferentially localizes to the nucleus in the RM, consistent with the proposed function of PLT1 as a transcription factor CITATION. The closest homolog of PLT1 (At1g51190) resides in a region of segmental genome duplication (http://wolfe.gen.tcd.ie/athal/dup), and we named this gene PLT2 CITATION. The protein sequence deduced from a PLT2 cDNA (GenBank AY506550) is strikingly similar to PLT1 with 97.7% amino acid identity in the region spanning both AP2 domains (Supplemental Figure S1 on the Cell website). PLT2 displays essentially the same expression pattern as PLT1 CITATION and a GFP-PLT2 fusion localizes to the nucleus (data not shown). In RT-PCR analysis, PLT1 and PLT2 transcripts were mainly detected in roots, but very weakly in flowers and not in leaves, indicating that PLT expression is strongly associated with root identity (data not shown). To examine the postembryonic function of the PLT genes, independent insertion alleles were analyzed. plt1 mutations affect cell division patterns in the QC and columella root cap. In wild-type at 2 days postgermination (dpg), the columella has four tiers of cells, consisting of one stem cell tier (tier1) and three tiers of differentiated cells marked by accumulation of starch granules (tier2–4; CITATION ; CITATION). In some plants, a fraction of the stem cells may have divided to produce daughters that will accumulate starch granules. By contrast, plt1 mutants displayed an increased number of columella tiers, mainly due to enhanced cell division in tier1 (CITATION; CITATION). In addition, we frequently found extra cells in tier2 of the columella (24 of 48 plants in plt1-4; arrowhead in CITATION), which never occurs in wild-type (n = 247). These extra cells could be derived either from ectopic cell divisions in tier2 or from irregular and unsynchronized cell divisions in tier1. In addition to the columella defect, we occasionally observed extra QC cells in plt1 mutants CITATION. In plt2-1 mutants, we could not detect significant abnormalities in columella or QC organization. However, the plt2-2 mutant contains increased columella cell numbers, although the frequency of extra tiers is lower compared to that of plt1 (CITATION; CITATION) and no extra cells in tier2 are present (n = 339). The subtle defects in the columella region of plt2-2 mutants resemble those observed in plt1. To assess whether mutations in PLT genes affect cell division in the RM, we measured the root length and the number of meristematic cells. Both plt1 and plt2 single mutants display a slight but significant reduction in the growth rate of the root and in the number of meristematic cells (CITATION; Supplemental Figures S2A and S2B on the Cell website). The average length of differentiated cells in the root is not significantly altered or even slightly increased (Supplemental Figure S2C online), suggesting that the reduction in root growth is due to reduced production of cells in the RM. The high homology between the two PLT genes and their similar expression patterns suggest redundant roles in root development. We therefore constructed double mutants of plt1and plt2, using four different allelic combinations (plt1-3 plt2-2, plt1-4 plt2-1, plt1-4 plt2-2, and plt1-5 plt2-1). All double mutants display essentially the same defects. The columella contains more cells, its stratified structure is disturbed, and starch granules accumulate in all columella layers including cells at the position of the stem cells CITATION. Root growth is extremely reduced compared to wild-type and each single mutant (CITATION; Supplemental Figure S2A online), and the number of meristematic cells is also highly reduced (CITATION; Supplemental Figure S2B on the Cell website). Consistently, expression of cyclin-GUS, a marker for the G2/M phase of the cell cycle CITATION, is detected in a smaller area along the longitudinal axis of plt1 plt2 (CITATION; 144.0 μm ± 4.1 SEM in wild-type Col, n = 56; 35.1 μm ± 2.6 SEM in plt1-4 plt2-2, n = 73; 3 dpg), indicating that the population of dividing cells is smaller. Furthermore, the size of the RM in double mutants rapidly decreases and eventually all cells in the RM differentiate at 6 to 8 dpg, as evident by formation of root hair cells and xylem strands at the root tip CITATION. These results show that PLT1 and PLT2 are redundantly required for distal cell division patterns and RM maintenance. The reduced root growth of the double mutant could be due to a reduction either in the rate of cell production or in the final size of mature cells. Interestingly, the size of mature cortex cells in plt1 plt2 is reduced to nearly a half of that of wild-type (Supplemental Figure S2C online). This finding, however, only partially accounts for the reduction of whole root length (approximately 1/8 of wild-type at 8 dpg; Supplemental Figure S2A), showing that the production of cells in the RM is significantly decreased (to ∼1/4 of wild-type) in the double mutant. The plt1 plt2 mutant produces numerous lateral roots from the pericycle of the primary root. The RM of these lateral roots is highly reduced in size, contains disorganized columella layers, and differentiates shortly after initiation CITATION, similar to the primary RM. Terminated primary and secondary roots of plt1 plt2 continue to produce lateral roots of higher orders, resulting in a more branched root system compared to that of wild-type CITATION. These observations indicate that the PLT genes are also required for RM maintenance in lateral roots, but not for lateral root initiation. We observed no obvious phenotype in plt1 plt2 shoots CITATION. To assess whether the loss of stem cells is associated with mis-specification of the QC in the double mutant, we examined three independent QC markers in plt1-4 plt2-2 at a stage where the RM is still present in the primary root (3 dpg). Expression of QC25 is either completely missing (37.2%, n = 94) or reduced. When QC25 is expressed, the signal is expanded to adjacent cells with starch granules, again suggesting that wild-type columella stem cells are not present CITATION. Most plants fail to express QC46 (86.5%, n = 37) or express this marker only weakly. The third marker, QC184, is either completely missing (61.4%; n = 83; CITATION) or highly reduced. These three markers are expressed in the QC of all wild-type WS plants (n > 100). These results indicate that plt double mutants fail to establish or maintain QC cells with correct identity and in this way interfere with the maintenance of RM stem cells. To investigate whether the PLT genes are required for initiation of the stem cell niche in the embryo, we examined their embryonic expression and function. PLT1 mRNA is detectable as early as the octant stage in the basal half of the embryo proper CITATION . At the globular stage, PLT1 is expressed in the provascular cells and in the lens-shaped QC progenitor cell derived from the hypophysis CITATION. As embryogenesis proceeds, PLT1 expression becomes restricted to the distal part of the embryonic root, including the QC and surrounding stem cells CITATION. PLT2 displays a very similar expression pattern at all stages examined except that its expression domain expands laterally to include some ground tissue cells CITATION. In the mature embryo stage, the plt1-4 and plt2-2 single mutants do not reveal any phenotype (data not shown) while the double mutant displays abnormal cellular organization of the hypophyseal derivatives. In wild-type, this region consists of the QC, columella stem cells, and two basal cell tiers which will become differentiated columella layers CITATION. Some of the columella stem cells may have divided to produce daughters (CITATION, arrowheads). The corresponding region of plt1 plt2 contains more cells with a less stratified organization CITATION. At the early heart stage, the wild-type hypophysis has formed an upper lens-shaped cell and lower cells that have divided vertically CITATION. The lens-shaped cell will undergo vertical divisions and form the QC while the lower cells will divide horizontally in the next round of cell division CITATION. By contrast, the lens-shaped cell in plt1 plt2 heart stage embryos is enlarged and has already performed vertical cell divisions CITATION. Furthermore, the lower cells divide vertically or obliquely rather than horizontally. To assess cell identity in the embryonic stem cell region, we examined QC marker expression. In wild-type, expression of QC25 starts at the mid-heart stage, whereas QC46 expression starts at the early heart stage in the lens-shaped cell and its derivatives CITATION. QC184 is initially detected at the early torpedo stage in the derivatives of the lens-shaped cell (data not shown). In plt1 plt2, neither QC25 nor QC46 expression is detected throughout embryogenesis CITATION. QC184 is detected only at the mature stage but not in earlier stage embryos (data not shown). Our results show that PLT function is required for early stages of QC specification and for correct cell division patterns of neighboring cells; these results correlate well with the restriction of PLT expression to the stem cell niche around the heart stage of embryogenesis. The GRAS family transcription factors SCR and SHR are also required for QC specification and stem cell maintenance in the root and both are essential for QC25 and QC46 expression CITATION, suggesting that target genes of this pathway overlap with those of PLT. We therefore investigated whether the SHR/SCR and PLT pathways influence the transcription or function of each other. SCR expression in the plt1-4 plt2-2 background was examined using a YFP reporter driven by the SCR promoter (pSCR-YFP). In wild-type, pSCR-YFP is expressed in the QC and endodermis cells of the postembryonic RM CITATION as well as in the embryo CITATION. In plt1 plt2, SCR expression is detected in the corresponding cells both in embryonic and in early postembryonic roots CITATION, indicating that the PLT genes are not required for SCR expression. In wild-type, columella stem cells adjacent to the QC are maintained by SCR activity in the QC and do not accumulate starch granules (CITATION; arrowhead in CITATION). In plt1 plt2, however, cells adjacent to SCR-positive cells accumulate starch granules (arrowhead in CITATION), confirming that these cells do not possess correct columella stem cell identity. SHR expression was examined using a SHR-GFP fusion protein driven by the SHR promoter CITATION. In wild-type QC and endodermal cells, SHR-GFP is present in the nucleus CITATION. In plt1 plt2, we found nuclear accumulation of SHR-GFP in the equivalent cells both in postembryonic and embryonic roots CITATION, showing that the PLT genes are not essential for the expression of the SHR protein. SHR-GFP and SCR promoter activity is sometimes lacking in cells that correspond to the QC in the postembryonic root (arrowhead in CITATION; data not shown), which may reflect a secondary effect of the cessation of meristem activity or a requirement for PLT activity in the maintenance of SHR and SCR expression. To examine the effect of the SCR/SHR pathway on PLT mRNA accumulation, we next analyzed PLT1 expression in the scr-1 and shr-1 mutants by in situ hybridization. PLT1 transcript is still present in both of these strong alleles, although the signal intensity is lower compared to the wild-type control CITATION. These results show that neither SCR nor SHR are essential for PLT1 transcription. Although the SCR/SHR and PLT expression domains are established independently, the proteins could posttranscriptionally modify each other's activity. To test whether the SCR/SHR pathway solely acted on stem cell maintenance by modulating PLT activity or vice versa, we constructed scr-4 plt1-4 plt2-2 and shr-1 plt1-4 plt2-2 triple mutants. Similar to the plt1 plt2 double mutant, scr and shr single mutants display reduced RM size and differentiation of RM cells CITATION. In both triple mutant combinations, cells in the RM differentiate earlier compared to any of the scr and shr single or plt1 plt2 double mutants CITATION. These results indicate that the PLT genes are still active in the scr and shr backgrounds and, conversely, that SCR and SHR are active in the plt1 plt2 double mutant to maintain stem cells in the root. Taken together, our data argue that the PLT and SCR/SHR pathways provide parallel inputs in root stem cell niche specification. The two pathways converge at a subset of target promoters (as indicated by the same effect on QC25 and QC46) but remain independent at others (as revealed by QC184, which is dependent on PLT but not on SCR/SHR). The accumulation of auxin at the distal tip of root primordia is associated with QC and stem cell specification. We tested whether the PLT genes are required for the generation or perception of this auxin maximum. The auxin responsive reporter DR5-GUS visualizes the auxin response maximum in the wild-type RM, where strong GUS activity is detected in the QC, columella stem cells, and differentiated columella and weak expression in vascular cells adjacent to the QC (CITATION ; CITATION). plt1-4 plt2-2 mutants reveal essentially the same pattern but lack the weak staining in vascular cells CITATION. Overnight treatment of roots with the synthetic auxin 2,4-D induces DR5-GUS in all RM cells of both wild-type and plt1-4 plt2-2 CITATION. Since neither auxin distribution nor primary auxin response is significantly impaired in the double mutant, we concluded that the PLT genes do not strongly affect these processes. To examine whether the PLT genes act downstream of auxin accumulation, we first monitored PLT mRNA levels upon addition of auxins using semiquantitative RT-PCR CITATION. In contrast to mRNA of the early auxin response gene IAA2, PLT1 and PLT2 transcripts are not elevated 5 hr after auxin application, suggesting that the PLT genes are not primary auxin response genes. However, both transcripts increase between 5 and 24 hr after application of 50 μM IAA or NAA. Our results indicate that auxin accumulation promotes PLT transcription in domains with prolonged auxin response. The spatial correlation of PLT transcription with high levels of DR5-GUS reporter activation suggested that PLT expression could be dependent on transcription factors of the ARF class that bind to the auxin-responsive elements in this reporter. MONOPTEROS (MP), which encodes a member of this class, is expressed throughout the early embryo proper. MP and PLT expression expand together into the lens-shaped QC progenitor cell at the globular stage when PLT transcripts first accumulate there CITATION. In embryos of the strong mp-T370 allele at 8- to 16-cell stages, both PLT genes are expressed (CITATION; data not shown). At late globular to early heart stages, expression of PLT is lost in the majority of mp embryos (79%, n = 24 for PLT1 and 83%, n = 23 for PLT2; CITATION), whereas all wild-type siblings examined express PLT (n = 37 for PLT1 and n = 25 for PLT2). The partial independence of embryonic PLT expression on MP might be caused by the redundantly acting MP homolog NON-PHOTOTROPIC HYPOCOTYL4 (NPH4) CITATION. Consistent with this notion, heart stage double mutant embryos display further reduction of PLT1 transcript (90% completely lost, 10% extremely reduced, n = 32) whereas nph4 single mutant embryos contain normal transcript levels CITATION. To circumvent redundancy in ARF action during embryogenesis, we investigated a role of the auxin response transcriptional machinery in the initiation of PLT1 transcription in lateral roots. To this end, we used the plt1-1 promoter trap whose activity initiates in progenitor cells of lateral root primordia in the pericycle of wild-type CITATION to examine promoter trap activity in plants carrying the dominant solitary-root-1 (slr-1) mutation. These plants accumulate a mutant IAA14 protein as a repressor of ARF-mediated transcriptional responses to auxin, resulting in an early and specific block in lateral root formation CITATION. We detected promoter trap activity in early lateral root primordia emerging from pericycle cells of plants wild-type for SLR (3.77 per root, n = 26; arrowheads in CITATION). No activity was detected in the pericycle of slr-1/+ plants CITATION, except in rare “escape” lateral root primordia (0.18 per root, n = 28). Agilent gene chip data on the auxin inducibility during lateral root development showed that the PLT genes were 7- to 9-fold inducible by auxin within 24 hr in wild-type whereas this induction was severely impaired in the slr-1 mutant background (H. Fukaki, personal communication). As PLT1 expression appears to precede the early SLR-dependent morphological changes that occur in lateral root primordia, these data suggest that activation of PLT1 transcription in lateral roots occurs downstream of auxin response factors. To assess whether auxin accumulation can promote stem cell specification through a pathway operating independently of the PLT genes, we cultured plt1 plt2 seedlings carrying the QC25 promoter trap in 0.05, 0.5, 5, and 50 μM IAA or NAA. After 24 and 72 hr, we observed no rescue of stem cell activity in plt1 plt2 and the residual QC25 expression was never restored to wild-type levels (n > 10 for each treatment), indicating that auxins cannot bypass the requirement for the PLT genes. We investigated whether the PLT genes could promote stem cell niche formation in ectopic positions. To this end, we induced ubiquitous expression of the PLT genes from early embryogenesis onward using the promoter for the RIBOSOMAL PROTEIN S5A (pRPS5A; CITATION) in combination with the GAL4/UAS-based two-component expression system CITATION. The RPS5A promoter is active at all stages and in all cells of the embryo proper CITATION. We generated activator lines in which a modified GAL4 protein is expressed under the control of the RPS5A promoter (pRPS5A-GAL4) and target lines carrying PLT1 or PLT2 coding sequences downstream of the UAS promoter (UAS-PLT). To visualize GAL4 activity, we engineered the YFP coding sequence downstream of a UAS copy into the target constructs. These parental lines revealed no developmental abnormalities. Twelve UAS-PLT2 lines were generated and crossed with pRPS5A-GAL4 driver lines. Two of the UAS-PLT2 lines did not cause any specific phenotype. Three lines produced seedlings with root stem cell termination, which was likely caused by cosuppression of PLT genes (data not shown). Seven other lines yielded novel phenotypes, ubiquitous YFP fluorescence, and increased PLT2 expression as judged by semiquantitative RT-PCR (Supplemental Figure S3 on the Cell website). Among them, six were categorized as phenotypically strong and one as mild. The apical region of the strong lines lacks a SAM (data not shown) and branches into continuously proliferating clusters of green structures CITATION , while the corresponding region of wild-type gives rise to the SAM and two cotyledons. These green structures resemble cotyledons or leaves but are smaller and often have radial rather than bilateral symmetry (data not shown). The base of each branch, at the position of the cotyledon petiole in wild-type, consists of white root-like tissue (CITATION, left panel). Numerous root hairs emerge from the surface of this region as well as from the hypocotyl (CITATION, middle panel). In addition, ectopic roots with fully active RMs frequently emerge from the flank of the apical part (arrow in CITATION, right panel). These results indicate that ectopic expression of PLT2 prevents normal hypocotyl, cotyledon, and SAM formation and induces ectopic roots with active stem cells. The strong UAS-PLT2 target lines occasionally yield seedlings that entirely consist of white tissues with severely retarded growth. In these seedlings, clusters of starch granule-accumulating cells, which resemble wild-type columella root cap, are produced ectopically in apical regions (CITATION, arrowheads). These clusters are often associated with the apical end of branches or bulges forming on the lateral surface of the seedling. Interestingly, the clusters are flanked distally by shedding cells and proximally by cells elongating along the axis of the bulge, resembling shedding root cap cells and provascular cells in the wild-type root tip, respectively CITATION. Moreover, virtually the whole surface of these seedlings is covered with shedding cells and subtending layers of starch granule-accumulating cells CITATION. These observations indicate that constitutive expression of PLT2 can cause ectopic formation of distal RM cells in an arrangement comparable to wild-type. In progeny from crosses with the mild UAS-PLT2 line, the apical part of seedlings bifurcates to form hypocotyl-like structures with a distal SAM between a pair of cotyledons CITATION. The hypocotyl-like structures display a radial anatomy with vascular organization and symmetric ground tissue layers similar to wild-type hypocotyl CITATION, indicating a transformation from petiole to hypocotyl identity. When eleven target lines harboring UAS-PLT1 were generated and crossed to pRPS5A-GAL4 activator lines, one line displayed a range of phenotypes encompassing production of clusters of green leaf-like organs on the surface of cotyledons, ectopic root-like structures in place of cotyledons, and ectopic columella cells covering the seedling surface, similar to strong UAS-PLT2 lines. However, none of the UAS-PLT1 lines displayed ectopic hypocotyl identity. To investigate whether PLT1 can also induce ectopic hypocotyl identity, we directly transformed a pRPS5A-GAL4 activator line with UAS-PLT1 target construct and examined T1 seedlings. Among 38 transformants, 3 displayed ectopic hypocotyl identity, 12 displayed ectopic root identity, and 3 were covered with ectopic columella cells. All these phenotypes are associated with ubiquitous YFP fluorescence. We next asked whether ectopic PLT-induced stem cells are associated with ectopic QC specification by using the QC25 promoter trap. In wild-type seedlings, QC25 is exclusively expressed in the QC CITATION but not in any other region (data not shown). When plants harboring both UAS-PLT1 and QC25 are crossed with pRPS5A activator lines, the resulting F1 seedlings display regions of strong QC25 expression CITATION. Cells that ectopically express QC25 are always located internally to cells that accumulate starch granules CITATION. Between these two cell types, we often found cells that express neither the QC25 nor starch granule markers (CITATION, arrowhead). The orientation of cell walls suggests that these cells proliferate along the axis between QC25- and starch granule-expressing cells, similar to wild-type columella stem cells. Taken together, our results show that PLT1 and PLT2 can ectopically induce all organ identities that originate from the basal region of the embryo, i.e., hypocotyl, root, and root stem cell niche. To investigate whether the ectopic activation of root stem cell activity by PLT genes was accompanied by new sites of auxin accumulation, we combined the relevant pRPS5A-GAL4 and UAS-PLT2 lines with the sensitive auxin-responsive reporter line IAA2-GUS CITATION. IAA2-GUS marks the incipient root primordium from globular stage onward in wild-type embryos CITATION and in those ectopically expressing PLT2 CITATION. In the latter, newly formed ectopic primordia stain neither in freshly harvested embryos (arrowheads in CITATION) nor in explanted embryos which develop regions with shedding root cap-like cells CITATION and ectopic primordia with characteristic root anatomy CITATION. These results suggest that the embryonic induction of ectopic root stem cell groups by PLT genes does not require auxin accumulation.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotypes Wassilewskija (WS), Landsberg erecta (Ler), and Columbia (Col) were used. Origins and ecotypes of mutant and transgenic lines are as follows: plt1-1 and plt1-2 (WS), INRA T-DNA lines CITATION; plt1-3, plt1-4, and plt2-2 (WS), the BASTA population of the Arabidopsis Knockout Facility CITATION; plt1-5 (Ler), line GT7616 from the CHSL Genetrap collection (http://genetrap.cshl.org/); plt2-1 (Ler), line SGT4287 from the IMA insertion collection CITATION; scr-1 (WS), CITATION; scr-4 (WS), CITATION; shr-1 (WS), CITATION; mp-T370 (Ler), CITATION; slr-1 (Col), CITATION; Cyclin-GUS (Col), CITATION; QC25, QC46, and QC184 (WS), CITATION; pSHR-SHR-GFP shr-2 (Col), CITATION; DR5-GUS (Col), CITATION. Growth conditions of seedlings and embryos are described in CITATION and CITATION, respectively. Sequences flanking the left border (LB) of the T-DNA were determined after amplification with either Vectorette-PCR (for plt1-1 and plt1-2; CITATION), TAIL-PCR (for plt1-3; CITATION), or PCR (for plt1-4 and plt2-2). The Ds insertion site in plt1-5 (http://genetrap.cshl.org/) was confirmed with PCR. For plt2-1, the sequence flanking the 5′ region of Ds was amplified with PCR and sequenced. Insertion sites are as follows: plt1-1, −1237 bp; plt1-2, −5443 bp; plt1-3, 734 bp; plt1-4, 1105 bp, plt1-5, 733 bp; plt2-1, 664 bp; plt2-2, 1473 bp from the putative translation start point. When homozygous plt1-1 plants were crossed to wild-type WS, heterozygous F1 seedlings displayed significantly weaker staining compared to homozygous seedlings. The F2 progeny segregated nonstaining plants (representing wild-type), weak staining plants (representing plt1-1 heterozygotes), and strong staining plants (representing plt1-1 homozygotes) in a 1:2:1 ratio (15:34:16). All plants with strong staining displayed the mutant phenotype while the rest did not, showing that the phenotype was linked to the T-DNA insertion that caused the staining pattern. Cosegregation of the T-DNA insertion with the staining pattern was demonstrated by PCR using insertion-specific primers (n > 50). PLT1 cDNA was isolated from the root cDNA library (WS) described by CITATION using a gene-specific probe directed to the first exon. PLT2 cDNA containing the whole predicted coding sequence was isolated from root RNA (Col) by RT-PCR with primers cPLT2-F3 (5′-tccaattcctatcatttcagatc-3′) and cPLT2-R2 (5′-agaagactccagccgatcct-3′). pGreenII vectors (CITATION; http://www.pgreen.ac.uk) were used for plant transformation. pPLT1-GFP-PLT1 and pSCR-YFP were transformed into WS, and activator and target constructs were transformed into Col. Details for plasmid constructions are provided in the Supplemental Data online at http://www.cell.com/cgi/content/full/119/1/109/DC1/. Cyclin-GUS, pSCR-YFP, DR5-GUS, and QC markers were crossed to plt1-4 plt2-2. Plants homozygous for the plt mutations as well as for transgene markers were isolated from the F2 or F3 population and analyzed in the next generation. For SHR-GFP expression, pSHR-SHR-GFP shr-2 was crossed to plt1-4 plt2-2. Plants homozygous for plt and shr mutations were isolated in the F2 and GFP was analyzed in a population segregating for pSHR-SHR-GFP. For PLT1 expression analysis in slr-1, the plt1-1 homozygote was crossed to Col or the slr homozygote and analyzed in the F1. In all experiments, parental transgenic lines were used as a control. For auxin treatments of plt1 plt2 QC25, 2 dpg seedlings were taken from plates and cultured for 24 to 96 hr in 6 well plates containing 7 ml 0.5 × GM (0.5 × Murashige and Skoog salt mixture, 1% sucrose, and 0.5 g/l 2-[N-morpholino] ethanesulfonic acid, pH 5.8) in the absence or presence of 0.05, 0.5, 5, or 50 μM IAA or NAA. For auxin treatments, 2 dpg seedlings were taken from plates and cultured 24 and 72 hr in 250 ml erlenmeyers containing 50 ml 0.5 × GM in the absence or presence of 0.05, 0.5, 5 or 50 μM IAA or NAA. For analysis of overexpressors, seedlings were collected from 4 to 10 dpg. Details of the RT-PCR protocols are provided in the Supplemental Data on the Cell website. For whole-mount visualization, seedlings or ovules were cleared and mounted according to CITATION or CITATION, respectively. Starch granules and β-glucuronidase activity were visualized as described CITATION. Root length was measured as described CITATION. The number of root meristematic cells was obtained by counting cortex cells showing no signs of rapid elongation. For confocal microscopy, roots or dissected embryos were mounted in 10 μM propidium iodide or 7% glucose, respectively. Histological sections were prepared according to CITATION and stained with Toluidine blue. Whole-mount in situ hybridization was performed manually using a protocol described by CITATION. In situ hybridization in paraffin sections was performed according to CITATION. Riboprobes were prepared from nucleotides 1–525 or 1–560 of the PLT1 or PLT2 cDNA, respectively.
