!~ABS~! This is the first report describing the cloning and characterization of sterol carrier protein-2 (SCP-2) from plants. Arabidopsis thaliana SCP-2 (AtSCP-2) consists of 123 amino acids with a molecular mass of 13.6 kDa. AtSCP-2 shows 35% identity and 56% similarity to the human SCP-2-like domain present in the human D-bifunctional protein (DBP) and 30% identity and 54% similarity to the human SCP-2 encoded by SCP-X. The presented structural models of apo-AtSCP-2 and the ligand-bound conformation of AtSCP-2 reveal remarkable similarity with two of the structurally known SCP-2s, the SCP-2-like domain of human DBP and the rabbit SCP-2, correspondingly. The AtSCP-2 models in both forms have a similar hydrophobic ligand-binding tunnel, which is extremely suitable for lipid binding. AtSCP-2 showed in vitro transfer activity of BODIPY-phosphatidylcholine (BODIPY-PC) from donor membranes to acceptor membranes. The transfer of BODIPY-PC was almost completely inhibited after addition of 1-palmitoyl 2-oleoyl phosphatidylcholine or ergosterol. Dimyristoyl phosphatidic acid, stigmasterol, steryl glucoside, and cholesterol showed a moderate to marginal ability to lower the BODIPY-PC transfer rate, and the single chain palmitic acid and stearoyl-coenzyme A did not affect transfer at all. Expression analysis showed that AtSCP-2 mRNA is accumulating in most plant tissues. Plasmids carrying fusion genes between green fluorescent protein and AtSCP-2 were transformed with particle bombardment to onion epidermal cells. The results from analyzing the transformants indicate that AtSCP-2 is localized to peroxisomes. 
!~RES~! Identification of an A. thaliana Protein Similar to Sterol Carrier Protein-2—Previously, we reported the initial characterization of the endosperm proteome of Euphorbia lagascae and its changes during seed germination (CITATION). In that study we used two-dimensional gels to visualize proteins accumulating in the endosperm of E. lagascae seeds during germination. One of the E. lagascae proteins showed similarity to a putative protein, At5g42890, with unidentified function from A. thaliana. When we used the A. thaliana sequence to search the public sequence data bases, such as GenBank™, we identified that it showed significant similarity to DBP from mammals. A closer look at the results from the BLAST searches revealed that the similarities were restricted to the SCP-2-like domain of DBP. The A. thaliana At5g42890 protein shows 35% identity and 56% similarity to the human SCP-2-like domain present in DBP and 30% identity and 54% similarity to the human SCP-2 encoded by SCP-X. From now on, we will refer to At5g42890 as A. thaliana SCP-2 (AtSCP-2). AtSCP-2 consists of 123 amino acids, has a theoretical pI of 9.2, and a molecular mass of 13.6 kDa. The molecular mass of human SCP-2 is 13 kDa and pI has been determined to 8.7 (CITATION). AtSCP-2 contains a peroxisomal targeting signal, SKL, in the C terminus, which suggests that the peroxisomes are the main cellular location for the protein. The gene encoding AtSCP-2 is located on chromosome 5 in the A. thaliana genome. The gene is a separate gene that is not fused to any other gene. We have not identified any other genes encoding SCP-2 domains or SCP-2-like proteins in the completely sequenced A. thaliana genome.  Identification of cDNAs Encoding SCP-2-like Proteins from Other Plants—We used the A. thaliana sequence to search data bases for expressed sequence tags that encoded SCP-2-like proteins from other plants. We succeeded in identifying such sequence tags from the moss Physcomitrella patens, from conifers, monocotyledons, and many other dicotyledons suggesting that a SCP-2-like protein is expressed in most plants. The multiple sequence alignment in Fig. 1 shows the similarity of the SCP-2 sequences from plants as well as between sequences from plants and humans. The main difference between SCP-2 from dicotyledons and other plants is that the dicotyledons contain glycine residues in positions 67 and 68, using the numbers according to the A. thaliana SCP-2, whereas only one glycine is present at this spot in SCP-2-like proteins from bryophytes, conifers, and monocots. These residues are in a region that correspond to a turn between β-strands III and IV in the mammalian protein (CITATION, CITATION).  To understand more about the evolutionary relationships between SCP-2 domains, we searched the protein, nucleotide, and expressed sequence tag data bases for SCP-2 domains from archaea, eubacteria, and eukaryota. The amino acid sequences of the SCP-2 domains were aligned and a phylogenetic tree was constructed using the neighbor-joining method (CITATION). As expected, plant SCP-2 sequences form a specific cluster (Fig. 2). Within the plant cluster, groups are formed by the sequences from dicotyledons, monocotyledons, and gymnosperms. We can also note that the SCP-2 domains from SCP-X/SCP-2, DBP, and UNC-24/SLP-1 form separate groups. Probably, within each of these groups the SCP-2 domains have evolved from a common origin. The eukaryotic SCP-2 domains encoded by separate, unfused genes are not in a specific branch. Rather, it seems that unfused SCP-2 genes have been formed several times during the evolution of eukaryotic organisms.    [[FIGURE]] Models of AtSCP-2 in the Apo and Ligand-bound Conformation—The models of AtSCP-2 in apo and ligand-bound forms were constructed using as the templates the rabbit SCP-2 structure (Protein Data Bank code 1C44 (CITATION)) and the SCP-2-like domain of human DBP (Protein Data Bank code 1IKT (CITATION)), respectively. The sequence alignment was manually refined prior to model building at the Gly58-Gly67 position of AtSCP-2 to align Val60 with Val61 of rabbit SCP-2 and Val59 of the SCP-2-like domain of human DBP, because this valine seems to be structurally important based on the structure-based sequence alignment and visual inspection of the SCP-2 structures. Based on the sequence alignment used for modeling, AtSCP-2 shares 30.6 and 32.5% sequence identity with the rabbit and human SCP-2 template sequences, respectively, and reliable models could thus be generated. The mosquito SCP-2 sequence has significantly lower, only 20%, sequence identity to AtSCP-2 and, therefore, was used only for structural comparison. In general, the two templates have a very similar -fold and differ only at certain locations. The C-terminal end is clearly different in the structures of rabbit SCP-2 and the SCP-2-like domain of human DBE. Both in the SCP-2 like domain of human DBP and mosquito SCP-2 structures, which presumably represent the ligand-bound conformation, the C-terminal part is folded into a long α-helix (helix E) whereas in the rabbit apo-SCP-2 the C-terminal end of the α-helix has an irregular coil structure instead (Fig. 3). It is currently unclear whether these two conformations truly represent the SCP-2 conformation with and without ligand because the SCP-2 structures in both of the conformations are not known from the same organism. The loop between β-strands I and II of the central β-sheet is another structurally variable area. In addition, the sequence identity between AtSCP-2 and the templates is low at this loop and, thus, the models are less reliable at this loop (Fig. 3).    [[FIGURE]] The structural models of AtSCP-2 have a central five-stranded β-sheet that is covered on one side by five α-helices (A–E). Both of the models also have a large hydrophobic cavity that is similar to the one found in the template SCP-2 structures. This ligand-binding tunnel has an entrance between helices D and E and β-strand V and an exit that is composed of side chains from α-helices A, C, and E. The cavity is lined with hydrophobic residues, Ile11, Met12, Met14, Met15, Tyr35, Ile37, Val53, Phe74, Phe76, Phe81, Val84, Ala85, Pro91, Phe95, Met100, Ile102, Leu106, Ala109, Phe112, and Phe117 in the AtSCP-2 model, in the same way as in the template structures. Of these residues Pro91 and Phe95 are conserved in both of the template structures. In addition, residues Val53, Ile102, and Ala109 are conserved in the rabbit SCP-2 structure and residues Phe81 and Val84 are conserved in the SCP-2 like domain of human DBP. The entrance of the cavity is lined by polar residues Gln92, Gln110, and Thr113 in both the apo-AtSCP-2 and the ligand-bound AtSCP-2 model. Two of these residues, Gln92 and Gln110, are conserved in the SCP-2-like domain of human DBP, whereas only Gln92 is conserved in the rabbit SCP-2 structure, which has a methionine in the position corresponding to Gln110. In the SCP-2-like domain of human DBP Gln108 (Gln110 in AtSCP-2) forms a hydrogen bond with Triton X-100. The residue corresponding to Thr113 is a glutamine in both of the template structures. Thr113 is located in the middle of helix E. At the end of helix E an additional residue, Ser121, points toward the cavity at the exit of the ligand-binding tunnel in the ligand-bound conformation of AtSCP-2 (Fig. 3). In the template structures there is an alanine in this position. In general, the ligand-binding cavity is smaller in the apo-AtSCP-2 model than in the structural model of the ligand-bound conformation of AtSCP-2. This is mainly because of the different fold at the C-terminal end of the models.  Lipid Transfer Capability of AtSCP-2—By searching the data bases we identified several full-length cDNA clones encoding A. thaliana SCP-2. We obtained one such clone, U11030, from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center at the Ohio State University. This cDNA was derived from mRNA isolated from light grown, 7-day-old seedlings of Arabidopsis. The AtSCP-2 cDNA was subcloned behind GST in the prokaryotic expression vector pGEX-5X-2 yielding plasmid pGEX-SCPAt. This plasmid was transformed into E. coli BL21 and the expression of a GST-AtSCP-2 fusion protein was induced by the addition of isopropyl 1-thio-β-d-galactopyranoside to the growth media. After lysis of the bacterial cells, the fusion protein was adsorbed to glutathione-Sepharose. Factor Xa was added to cleave the fusion protein at a site between the GST tag and AtSCP-2. AtSCP-2 was then eluted from the glutathione-Sepharose. When the eluted fraction was analyzed by SDS-PAGE electrophoresis, a polypeptide with a molecular mass of ∼13 kDa was detected (Fig. 4A). To verify that this polypeptide corresponded to AtSCP-2 we cut the band from the gel, and added trypsin to digest the protein into smaller peptides. The trypsin digest was analyzed with electrospray mass spectroscopy in a mass spectrometer equipped with quadrupole and time-of-flight mass detectors. The obtained peptide masses and peptide sequences matched the theoretical peptide masses and sequences of AtSCP-2 (data not shown). The 13-kDa protein was also recognized in immunoblottings using an affinity purified peptide antisera against plant SCP-2 (Fig. 4B).    [[FIGURE]] To examine the intermembrane lipid transfer capability of the recombinant AtSCP-2 we used a FRET approach developed previously for monitoring protein-mediated glycolipid transfer between vesicle membranes (CITATION). We assayed the transfer activity using the following fluorescent lipids, BODIPY-PC, BODIPY-GlcCer, NBD-ceramide, and AV-GalCer. Using the FRET assay we show that the recombinant AtSCP-2 is capable of transferring phosphatidylcholine, whereas the enzyme is inactive on glucosylceramide and ceramide (Fig. 5) (Table I). In the lipid transfer assays, glycolipid transfer protein was used as control for the assay integrity.    [[FIGURE]]   [[TABLE]] To further examine the ability of AtSCP-2 to mediate transfer of unlabeled lipids we used a competition assay (Fig. 6). In this assay setup the BODIPY-PC and the added unlabeled lipids compete as substrates for AtSCP-2. We analyzed the ability of POPC, DMPA, bovine brain ceramide, cholesterol, palmitic acid, and stearoyl-coenzyme A and a wide range of plant lipids (Table II). The transfer rate of BODIPY-PC after addition of liposomes was almost completely inhibited for POPC and ergosterol. DMPA, stigmasterol, and steryl glucoside showed a 35–50% ability to lower the BODIPY-PC transfer rate. The rest of the tested compound only showed a marginal competing effect, and the single chain palmitic acid and stearoyl-coenzyme A did not affect the transfer at all. We confirm that the addition of ceramide did not slow down the transfer rate of BODIPY-PC, thereby validating the accuracy of the transfer assay because NBD-ceramide was neither transferred as a labeled compound (compare Figs. 5 and 6).    [[FIGURE]]   [[TABLE]] Cellular Localization of AtSCP-2—The C terminus of AtSCP-2 contains a PTS1 peroxisomal targeting sequence. A peroxisomal location has also been shown for the mammalian enzymes. To test whether the plant enzyme also is targeted to the peroxisome, we constructed gene fusions between the soluble modified red-shifted green fluorescent protein (smRS-GFP) and AtSCP-2. In plasmid pER6, the fusion is constructed such that the fusion protein consists of AtSCP-2 in the N terminus and smRS-GFP in the C terminus (AtSCP-2-GFP), whereas the fusion protein encoded by the plasmid pER7 contains smRS-GFP in the N terminus and AtSCP-2 in the C terminus (GFP-AtSCP-2) (Fig. 7). The plasmids pER6, pER7, and psmRS-GFP, which encodes smRS-GFP without fusion partner, were transformed by particle bombardment to onion cells. The transformed tissues were analyzed using fluorescence microscopy. When the onion epidermis cells were transformed with plasmids psmRS-GFP and pER6, soluble GFP were detected in the nucleus and cytosol (Fig. 7). In the pER6 encoded fusion, AtSCP-2-GFP, the putative PTS1 from AtSCP-2 is not exposed in the C terminus. However, when onion cells were transformed with pER7, which encodes GFP-AtSCP-2, carrying the PTS1 in its original position in the C terminus, fluorescence was obtained from distinct organelles. The size and the irregular shape of the fluorescent organelles, the presence of a PTS1 signal, and the need to have AtSCP-2 PTS1 exposed in the C terminus of the fusion protein let us conclude that AtSCP-2 localizes to the peroxisomes via the use of the PTS1 signal sequence.  Expression Pattern of AtSCP-2 in A. thaliana—Total RNA was isolated from different tissues of mature A. thaliana plants, such as inflorescence, leaves, stems, roots, siliques, and flower buds. We also isolated RNA from 3-, 7-, and 14-day-old seedlings. The expression pattern of AtSCP-2 RNA was analyzed by RT-PCR using the gene-specific primers ATSCPRT1 and ATSCPRT2. Analysis of the PCR products revealed that a PCR product of the expected size of 365 bp was obtained from all samples (Fig. 8). Thus, our results suggest that AtSCP-2 is expressed in most tissues of young and adult A. thaliana plants. As a control of our RNA preparations and RT-PCR conditions we also used primers UBL1 and UBL2 to analyze the expression of ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2, 21 kDa (At5g41340), which according to microarray analysis is one of the A. thaliana genes that shows the most stable expression pattern (CITATION). RT-PCR with UBL1 and UBL2 yielded a PCR product of the expected size 557 bp.    [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plant Materials and Bacterial Strains—We used Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0). Seeds were surface sterilized (washed in 70% ethanol for 2 min and in 15% chlorine and 0.5% SDS for 10 min followed by at least four washes in sterile-distilled water) and sown on 1× Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) (CITATION). Before cultivation, seed dormancy was broken by 3 to 4 days of cold treatment (4 °C). Plants grown under nonsterile conditions were planted on soil mixed with vermiculite (2:1). The plants were cultivated under controlled environmental chambers at 20 to 22 °C under long day (18 h of light and 6 h of darkness) conditions. Onions, Allium cepa L., used for detection of green fluorescent protein fusions were picked from a garden. Escherichia coli strains DH5α and TOP10 were used for general cloning and blue/white screening. E. coli BL21 was used for heterologous expression of AtSCP-2.  Chemicals—To examine the intermembrane lipid transfer capability of AtSCP-2 we used the following fluorescent lipids, BODIPY-phosphatidylcholine (BODIPY-PC), BODIPY-glucosylceramide (BODIPY-GlcCer), and NBD-ceramide. As the non-transferable energy acceptor in these fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) assays we used DiI-C18. These lipids were all obtained from Molecular Probes. Anthrylvinyl-galactosylceramide (AV-GalCer) was also examined as a potential substrate for transfer activity, and as its nontransferable energy acceptor pair we used perylenoyl-triolein (Per-TG). These lipids were synthesized as described previously (CITATION). Bovine brain ceramide and cholesterol were from Sigma and 1-palmitoyl 2-oleoyl phosphatidylcholine (POPC), dimyristoyl phosphatidic acid (DMPA), β-sitosterol, desmosterol, steryl glucoside (soybean), stigmasterol, palmitic acid, stearoyl-CoA, and ergosterol from Larodan AB, Malmö, Sweden.  Bioinformatics—DNA and amino acid sequence data bases were searched using BLAST (CITATION). Multiple sequence alignment was created using Clustal X (CITATION) and the resulting similarities were then visualized by subjecting the alignment to Boxshade.2 Peptide sequence data were analyzed using the BioLynx program of the MassLynx NT software package (version 3.4, Micromass Ltd., Manchester, United Kingdom).    AtSCP-2 Modeling—Two structural models of AtSCP-2 were generated: the structure of AtSCP-2 without ligand was modeled using as template the rabbit SCP-2 structure (Protein Data Bank code 1C44 (CITATION)) and the structure of AtSCP-2 in the putative ligand-bound form using as template the SCP-2-like domain of human DBP (Protein Data Bank code 1IKT (CITATION)). The rabbit SCP-2 has no visible ligand, whereas the human SCP-2-like protein has a Triton X-100 molecule bound in its inner hydrophobic cavity mimicking the ligand binding. The third known SCP-2 x-ray structure, SCP-2 from yellow fever mosquito (Protein Data Bank code 1PZ4 (CITATION)), was used for structural comparison. The three SCP-2 structures were superimposed using the program VERTAA in the Bodil modeling environment (CITATION). The sequence alignment of the three structurally known SCP-2 sequences and the AtSCP-2 sequence was performed within Bodil using the program MALIGN (CITATION, CITATION). The alignment was then refined taking into consideration structural features derived from the structure-based sequence alignment as well as conserved positions in the multiple sequence alignment of plant SCP-2 (Fig. 1).    [[FIGURE]] Based on the final sequence alignment and using both of the template structures, a set of 10 different models was made for apo-AtSCP-2 and the ligand-bound conformation of AtSCP-2 using the program MODELLER (CITATION). From each set of models, the one with the lowest value of the MODELLER objective function was chosen for further analysis. The two final models were compared with each other and to the template structures by superimposing them on each other using the program VERTAA within Bodil. The models were also analyzed with the program Surfnet (CITATION) to identify cavities within the structures. The cavities were visualized with Bodil.  Expression and Purification of AtSCP-2 in E. coli—The cDNA clone U11030 carrying the AtSCP-2 cDNA inserted into vector pUni51 was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. The coding region was amplified from plasmid U11030 by the use of primers SCPAtNE (5′-ACTGGAATTCAACTCAAATCCGATGCAATCATG-3′) and SCPAtCN (5′-TCATGGCGGCCGCTCACAACTTTGAAGGTTTAGGGA-3′). The obtained PCR fragment was digested with restriction enzymes EcoRI and NotI, and subcloned into the EcoRI-NotI site of the vector pGEX-5X-2 (Amersham Biosciences) to obtain a gene fusion between gluthatione S-transferase (GST) and AtSCP-2. The AtSCP-2 insert in the obtained plasmid pGEX-SCPAt was confirmed by DNA sequencing. Plasmid pGEX-SCPAt was transformed into E. coli BL21 cells. The cells were grown overnight in 5 ml of LB containing 100 μg/ml ampicillin in 37 °C. In the morning the cells were diluted 40 times in 200 ml of LB containing 100 μg/ml ampicillin. When A600 reached 0.6–0.7 expression of the GST-AtSCP-2 was induced with the addition of 0.6 mm isopropyl 1-thio-β-d-galactopyranoside. Cells were then grown for an additional 3 h.  For preparation of cell extracts and purification of GST-AtSCP-2 we followed the procedures described in the handbook for the GST Gene Fusion System (Amersham Bioscience). Bacterial cells were pelleted by centrifugation and resuspended in 10 ml of 1× phosphate-buffered saline. Cells were lysed by sonication for 12 × 15 s with a Labsonic U sonicator (B. Braun, Germany). The lysate was centrifuged in 4 °C for 20 min at 10,000 × g. The supernatant was decanted and saved.  For adsorbing the GST-AtSCP-2 fusion protein, 200 μl of a 50% slurry of glutathione-Sepharose 4B (Amersham Biosciences) was added to 10 ml of the bacterial extract. The mixture was incubated for 30 min in room temperature and then centrifuged at 500 × g for 5 min to sediment the matrix. The matrix was washed three times with 1× phosphate-buffered saline. To release AtSCP-2 from the GST-tag, 5 μg of Factor Xa (Amersham Biosciences) and 100 μl of Factor Xa cleavage buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 1 mm CaCl2) were added to the glutathione-Sepharose pellet. The cleavage reaction was incubated for 16 h at room temperature. The suspension was then centrifuged at 500 × g for 5 min. The supernatant was removed to a fresh tube and saved. To increase the yield of the AtSCP-2 protein the glutathione-Sepharose suspension was washed with 100 μl of 1× phosphate-buffered saline. The protein concentration in the supernatants was 2 μg/μl, indicating that the yield of the purified recombinant AtSCP-2 was ∼2 mg/liter of bacterial culture. Glycerol was added to a final concentration of 15%, before placing the supernatants in -20 °C.  Five μg of the purified protein fraction was analyzed by one-dimensional gel electrophoresis on NuPAGE 4–12% BisTris gels (Invitrogen) using an MES running buffer (50 mm MES, 50 mm Tris, 1 mm EDTA, pH 7.3). The gels were stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue and the protein band of interest was excised using a sharp knife, cut into smaller parts, and then washed in water. The protein was in-gel digested with trypsin, extracted, and analyzed by mass spectroscopy. For the mass analysis we used an instrument equipped with quadrupole and time-of-flight mass detectors (Micromass Q-Tof, Micromass Ltd.) with a nanospray ion source using the procedure described previously (CITATION), which is a slightly modified version of a method described by Mann and co-workers (CITATION).  FRET Assay for Monitoring SCP-2-mediated Lipid Intermembrane Transfer—The FRET method used for measuring (Cary Eclipse, Varian) the transfer of lipids between two bilayer vesicle populations has been thoroughly described previously (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Briefly, a FRET assay utilizing a labeled lipid that served as the energy donor (1 mol %) and a nontransferable lipid as the energy acceptor (3.0 mol %) permitted continuous real time monitoring of AtSCP-2 activity. Small unilamellar bovine brain sphingomyelin/cholesterol mixed (6:1) donor vesicles containing the fluorescent lipids were prepared by probe sonication. Bovine brain sphingomyelin/cholesterol acceptor vesicles were also prepared by sonication. The acceptor vesicles were in 10-fold excess. Calculation of the transfer rate was achieved by fitting to first-order exponential behavior as previously described in detail (CITATION, CITATION–CITATION). As a positive transfer control we used a transfer protein specific for glycolipids (CITATION, CITATION–CITATION).  Competition Assay—To analyze different unlabeled lipids as potential substrates for AtSCP-2 we used a competition assay. After the above described FRET BODIPY-PC assay was started by addition of AtSCP-2 and after a steady transfer rate was reached, unlabeled lipids were added as liposomes to the reaction mixture. This would result in a decrease in the transfer rate of the fluorescently labeled phosphatidylcholine because of the presence of a new transferable lipid pool of AtSCP-2 substrate. If the added lipid is not a substrate for AtSCP-2 no deviation in the slope of the transfer rate would occur. Similar types of approaches have been used previously (CITATION).  Transformation and Visualization of smRSGFP Constructs—The vector psmRS-GFP is a pUC118-based plasmid carrying the 35S-promoter in front of a soluble modified red-shifted GFP (smRS-GFP) followed by the NOS1 terminator (CITATION). This vector was used for construction of plasmids pER6 and pER7, which both encode AtSCP-2-GFP fusion proteins (Fig. 7). Plasmid pER6 carries a SCP-2-GFP fusion with AtSCP-2 in the N terminus and smRS-GFP in the C terminus. This plasmid was constructed by amplifying AtSCP-2 cDNA using primers SCPBAMN (5′-AGTGGATCCATGGCGAATACCCAACTCAAATC-3′) and SCPBAMC (5′-CTTGGATCCCCAACTTTGAAGGTTTAGGGAAGAT-3′). The PCR product was cleaved with BamHI and ligated to the BamHI site of psmRS-GFP. Plasmid pER7 encodes a fusion protein with smRS-GFP in the N terminus and AtSCP-2 in the C terminus. This plasmid was constructed by amplifying AtSCP-2 cDNA using primers SCPAtNE (5′-ACTGGAATTCAACTCAAATCCGATGCAATCATG-3′) and SCPAtCS (5′-TCATTGAGCTCTCACAACTTTGAAGGTTTAGGGA3′). The obtained PCR fragment contains an EcoRI site in the N-terminal region of the AtSCP-2 gene and a SacI site in the C-terminal region. Furthermore, smRS-GFP was amplified using primers GFPNBAM (5′-AGCGGATCCAAGGAGATATAACAATGA-3′) and GFPCECO (5′-CTTGAATTCCTTTGTATAGTTCATCCATGCCATG-3′), an amplification that yielded a PCR fragment with a BamHI site in the N-terminal part of the GFP gene and a EcoRI site in the part of the gene encoding the C terminus. The SCPAtNE-SCPAtCS fragment was cleaved with restriction enzymes EcoRI + SacI, whereas the GFPNBAM-GFPCECO-amplified fragment was digested with BamHI + EcoRI. The fragments were then ligated to psmRS-GFP that had been cut with endonucleases BamHI and SacI.    [[FIGURE]] Biolistic transformation of onion epidermis was done essentially according to previously published procedures (CITATION, CITATION). Approximately 2 mg of 1 μm of gold particles were resuspended in 25 μl of DNA solution consisting of plasmid DNA (1 μg/ml) and H2O. 220 μl of H2O, 250 μl of 2.5 m CaCl2, and 50 μl of 0.1 m spermidine were added to the DNA/gold suspension. The mixture was vortexed for 2 min, incubated on ice for 3 min, and vortexed in a cold room (4 °C) for 10 min. The mixture was centrifuged at 6000 × g for 3 min in 4 °C. The supernatant was removed, and the DNA/microprojectile precipitate was resuspended in 600 μl of 100% ethanol. The tube was centrifuged for 1 min, and the ethanol was removed. The DNA/microprocetile precipitate was resuspended in 40 μl of 100% ethanol. The DNA/gold suspension was distributed to three separate rupture disks.  Onion pieces were placed on agar plates containing 1× MS. The onion pieces were bombarded using a Biolistic PDS 1000/He Biolistic Particle Delivery System (Bio-Rad) with 900 p.s.i. rupture discs under a vacuum of 0.1 bar. After bombardment the onion pieces were left to recover on MS plates for 24 h in 22 °C. The onion pieces were then stored in a cold room (4 °C). Onion skin epidermal layers were peeled from the onion pieces. The peels were placed on glass slides and examined with a Zeiss Axioskop 2 MOT fluorescence light microscope. The GFP signal was detected using a fluorescein isothiocyanate filter (excitation 480 nm, emission 535 nm, dichronic beamsplitter 505 nm).  Preparation of Antibodies against SCP-2—The synthetic peptide SCP1 with the amino acid sequence AQKFTPEIFPKP was designed based on the amino acid sequences of the plant SCP-2 sequences. A sequence close to the C terminus was chosen for immunization because of its high conservation and its presumed exposed position. AgriSera (Vännäs, Sweden) performed peptide synthesis, coupling to bovine serum albumin, immunization of a rabbit, bleedings, serum preparations, and affinity purification of the plant SCP-2 antibodies.  Isolation of RNA and Reverse Transcriptase-PCR—RNA was isolated from A. thaliana tissues with the RNeasy Plant Mini kit from Qiagen. Plant tissues were disrupted in buffer RLC, which contains guanidine isothiocyanate. Reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR was done with the Titan one tube RT-PCR kit (Roche Diagnostics). The one-step system is uses avian myeloblastosis virus reverse transcriptase for first strand synthesis and the Expand High Fidelity enzyme blend for the PCR part. Approximately 100 ng of plant total RNA was used for each RT-PCR. The oligonucleotides ATSCPRT1 (ATGGCGAATACCCAACTCAAATCC) and ATSCPRT2 (TGAAGGTTTAGGGAAGATGTCAGG) were used for expression analysis of AtSCP-2, whereas UBL1 (ATGTCTTCGCCAAGCAAACGCAGA) and UBL2 (TGGTTTGCCAGCAATTGCAACAT) were used for analysis of expression of ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2, 21-kDa (At5g41340). The polymerase chain reactions were done in a PerkinElmer Life Sciences Gene Amp PCR System 2400. 
