!~ABS~! The first decision made by an angiosperm seed, whether to germinate or not, is based on integration of various environmental signals such as water and light. The phytochromes (Phys) act as red and far-red light (Pfr) photoreceptors to mediate light signaling through yet uncharacterized pathways. We report here that the PIF3-like 5 (PIL5) protein, a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor, is a key negative regulator of phytochrome-mediated seed germination. PIL5 preferentially interacts with the Pfr forms of Phytochrome A (PhyA) and Phytochrome B (PhyB). Analyses of a pil5 mutant in conjunction with phyA and phyB mutants, a pif3 pil5 double mutant, and PIL5 overexpression lines indicate that PIL5 is a negative factor in Phy-mediated promotion of seed germination, inhibition of hypocotyl negative gravitropism, and inhibition of hypocotyl elongation. Our data identify PIL5 as the first Phy-interacting protein that regulates seed germination.
!~RES~! PIL5 is a bHLH transcription factor that has a PIL domain at its N terminus (CITATION). Because two factors in this family (PIF3 and PIF4) were previously shown to directly interact with phytochromes (CITATION; CITATION), we examined whether PIL5 could also interact with phytochromes. As shown in Figure 1A, glutathione S-transferase (GST)-tagged PIL5 preferentially interacted with the Pfr forms of PhyA and PhyB. In a control experiment, GST-tagged PIF3 also preferentially interacted with the Pfr form of both PhyA and PhyB, whereas GST alone did not (Figure 1B). [[FIGURE]] The predicted subcellular localization of PIL5 is in the nucleus (http://www.psort.org). To experimentally confirm this predicted subcellular localization, we fused the coding region of PIL5 to the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene and transfected this construct into onion epidermal cells by particle bombardment method. As shown in Figure 1C, the resulting PIL5-GUS fusion protein was localized in the nucleus and its localization was not changed by different light conditions. Taken together, these results indicate that PIL5 is a new member of the nuclear localized phytochrome-interacting bHLH proteins. To examine the functional role of PIL5 in Phy-mediated light signaling, a T-DNA–inserted pil5 mutant (pil5-1, salk_072677) was analyzed. The T-DNA was inserted in the second exon, resulting in deletion of the C-terminal 335 amino acids of PIL5, including the bHLH domain (Figure 2A). RT-PCR analysis confirmed that there was no full length PIL5 gene expression in the pil5 mutants. Phenotype analysis in the F2 population indicated that a recessive mutant phenotype is cosegregated with a T-DNA (Figure 2B). [[FIGURE]] Previous analyses had shown that PIF3 acts as a negative component in PhyB- but not PhyA-mediated inhibition of the hypocotyl elongation process (CITATION). To investigate whether PIL5 plays a similar role in the hypocotyl elongation process, we measured the hypocotyl lengths of pil5 mutants grown in the dark, under 12-h red light cycle (12R:12D cycle) or under 12-h far-red light cycle (12FR:12D cycle). As shown in Figure 2C, there were no significant length differences in hypocotyls of wild-type and pil5 seedlings grown in the dark or under red light. However, under far-red light, the pil5 mutants had shorter hypocotyls than wild type. Hypocotyl length of pil5 phyA double mutant indicated that phyA is epistatic to pil5 (Figure 2D). These results suggest that PIL5 is a negative component in PhyA- but not PhyB-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl elongation. Because PIF3 and PIL5 are homologous proteins, it is possible that they could be functionally redundant, and thus the phenotypes observed in each mutant might not fully reflect their respective roles. To examine the role of PIL5 in the absence of PIF3, we generated a pil5 pif3 double mutant by crossing pif3-1 and pil5-1 plants. The hypocotyl lengths of the double mutants were measured after growing under various light conditions. All plants had similar hypocotyl lengths in the dark (Figure 2E). When grown under red light, the pil5 pif3 double mutant had a short hypocotyl length similar to that of the pif3 single mutant, whereas the pil5 pif3 double mutant grown under far-red light had short hypocotyl length similar to that of the pil5 single mutant. These results suggest that the hypocotyl phenotypes of pil5 and pif3 under specific monochromatic light conditions are not attributable to reciprocal compensation. Although the mutant analyses suggested that PIL5 is a negative component in PhyA- but not PhyB-mediated inhibition of the hypocotyl elongation process, this does not necessarily indicate that PIL5 cannot function in PhyB-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl elongation. To determine whether PIL5 can also regulate hypocotyl elongation under red light, we generated PIL5 overexpression lines that expressed the full-length PIL5 coding sequence under the control of the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus (Figure 2F). Two independent overexpression lines (PIL5OX1 and PIL5OX2) expressing high levels of the PIL5 transcript were used for further analyses. Figure 2F shows that the PIL5 overexpressing transgenic seedlings had longer hypocotyls than wild-type seedlings under both red and far-red light, suggesting that PIL5 could act as a negative component in both PhyA- and PhyB-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl elongation. This is in contrast with the case of the PIF3 overexpressing transgenic seedlings, which had longer hypocotyls under red light, but wild-type-like hypocotyls under far-red light (CITATION). This different response to far-red light in the PIL5OX and PIF3OX plants was not attributable to differing experimental conditions because these results were reproducibly observed even on the same agar plate (data not shown). Taken together, these data imply that PIF3 and PIL5 behave differently in PhyA-mediated inhibition of the hypocotyl elongation. During our measurements of hypocotyl lengths, we noticed that the PIL5 overexpression lines did not germinate well if the plates were kept in the dark. Because all seeds geminated well under red and white light conditions, this phenomenon suggested that PIL5 affects seed germination only under certain light conditions. Previous reports indicated that PhyA and PhyB play key roles in regulating seed germination under different light conditions (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Because PIL5 is a Phy-interacting protein, we tested whether phytochromes regulate seed germination through PIL5. For the PhyB-related germination assay, seeds were illuminated by either red light (6 mmol·m−2) or far-red light (0.95 mmol·m−2) after 1 h of seed surface sterilization and then kept in the dark for 6 d. Six days later, the germinated seedlings were counted. As a control, plates were kept under continuous white light and scored for germination. As shown in Figure 3, wild-type seeds germinated even in the absence of any extra light treatment, suggesting that the light signaling occurring either in the dry seeds or during the 1-h surface sterilization provided a sufficient inductive light signal for germination. In the absence of any extra red light treatment, seeds of the pil5 mutant, the pif3 mutant, and the pil5 pif3 double mutant also germinated well, but seeds of PIL5OX1 and PIL5OX2 did not germinate. Decreasing handling time for the surface sterilization did not change the germination pattern. In fact, the germination patterns did not change even when dry seeds were scattered directly (without surface sterilization) on wet filter paper under a green light and immediately transferred to darkness (data not shown), suggesting that the 1-h seed-handling time did not change the germination pattern. Furthermore, treatment with extra red light (6 mmol·m−2) did not alter the germination patterns. Together, these data suggest that PIL5 negatively regulated seed germination, and that 6 mmol·m−2 of extra red light was not sufficient to overcome the inhibitory action of overexpressed PIL5. [[FIGURE]] To further test whether inhibition of seed germination by PIL5 overexpression could be overcome by increased red light fluence, we first treated the samples with far-red light to convert the phytochromes to the Pr form, and then treated the samples with various fluences of red light (0 to 1200 mmol·m−2) and scored for germination. As shown in Figure 4A, increased red light fluence caused an increased germination rate in PIL5OX1 and PIL5OX2 plants. In the case of wild type, treatment with 0.1 mmol·m−2 red light was sufficient to induce germination, whereas a much higher red light fluence was required for germination of the two PIL5OX lines. Unlike the red light treatment, seeds of the wild type and the PIL5OX lines did not germinate if far-red light was applied after seed sterilization, whereas seeds of the pil5 mutant and the pil5 pif3 double mutant germinated regardless of far-red treatment. Changing the fluence of far-red from 0 to 57.6 mmol·m−2 did not alter the germination rate of the pil5 mutant and the pil5 pif3 double mutant (Figure 4B), suggesting that the ability of the pil5 mutant to germinate even after the far-red light treatment was not attributable to insufficient irradiation of far-red light. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate whether there is a functional relationship between PIL5 and PhyB, we generated pil5 phyB (pil5-1 phyB-9) and pil5 phyA (pil5-1 phyA-211) double mutants and examined their germination rates. As shown in Figure 5, wild-type, phyA mutant, pil5 mutant, and pil5 phyA double-mutant seeds germinated well in the absence or the presence of extra red light, whereas phyB mutant seeds did not germinate under the same conditions. The lack of seed germination in the phyB mutant suggests that the germination observed in the absence of any extra light treatment depended on the presence of functional PhyB. Under the same conditions, the pil5 phyB double mutant germinated only half compared with the pil5 single mutant. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that PIL5 acts as a negative factor in PhyB-mediated seed germination. In addition, the partial decrease of germination rate in the pil5 phyB double mutant suggests that factors other than PIL5 must be present for proper progression of PhyB-mediated germination. [[FIGURE]] When treated with a short pulse of far-red light after seed surface sterilization, wild-type and phyA mutant seeds did not germinate, but pil5 mutant and pil5 phyA double-mutant seeds germinated well (Figure 5A). Unlike the pil5 single mutant, only half of the pil5 phyB double-mutant seeds germinated (Figure 5B). The difference in germination rates between far-red–treated pil5 and pil5 phyB seeds suggests that in dry seeds, PhyB signaling could promote germination in the absence of PIL5. PhyA was shown to induce seed germination when PhyA protein was allowed to accumulate during prolonged incubation of imbibed seeds in the dark (CITATION). For assays of PhyA-related germination, seeds were treated with far-red light 1 h after seed surface sterilization and incubated in the dark. After 56 h, seeds were irradiated with various fluences of far-red light and allowed to germinate for 5 d in the dark. As shown in Figure 6A, a portion of the wild-type and pif3 mutant seeds germinated after far-red light treatment (96 mmol·m−2), whereas phyA mutant seeds did not. Under the same conditions, the phyB mutant seeds germinated better than did the wild type. These results are consistent with previous reports that induction of seed germination by far-red light under these assay conditions is mediated by PhyA, whereas the Pr form of PhyB inhibits this PhyA-mediated germination (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Under the PhyA-related germination assay conditions, the pil5, pil5 pif3, and pil5 phyA mutants germinated well regardless of far-red treatment, which is consistent with the PhyB-related germination assay data (Figures 3 and 5). However, unlike in the PhyB-related germination assay, the germination rates of the phyB and pil5 phyB mutants increased with enhanced far-red fluence. Because this increased germination occurred in the absence of PIL5, these results suggest that factors other than PIL5 also regulate PhyA-mediated seed germination. Because the pil5 mutant germinated even in the absence of PhyA activation, it was difficult to assess the role of PIL5 in PhyA-mediated seed germination. To determine the role of PIL5 in PhyA-mediated seed germination, we determined the germination rates of the PIL5OX mutants in response to increases in far-red fluence. As shown in Figure 6B, the PIL5OX mutants required much higher fluences of far-red light for germination, as compared with wild type, suggesting that PIL5 inhibits seed germination in PhyA-mediated promotion of seed germination. Taken together, our data suggest that PIL5 is a negative factor in both PhyA- and PhyB-mediated seed germination, and further indicates that other factors are involved in these processes. When Arabidopsis seedlings are grown in the dark, hypocotyls orient in a negative gravitropic direction. Under red and far-red light, however, hypocotyl negative gravitropism is inhibited and hypocotyls become randomly oriented. This inhibition of hypocotyl negative gravitropism under red and far-red light is mediated by phytochromes (CITATION). Under far-red light, phyA mutants grow in an upward direction, indicating that PhyA is required for inhibition of negative gravitropism. By contrast, phyB single mutants orient randomly under red light, suggesting that other phytochromes are involved in the inhibition of hypocotyl negative gravitropism under red light. Analysis of phyA phyB double mutants later showed that both PhyA and PhyB must be present for inhibition of hypocotyl negative gravitropism under red light (CITATION). During our experiments, we noticed that the hypocotyls of the pil5 pif3 double mutants oriented randomly in the dark. Because phytochromes regulate hypocotyl negative gravitropism, we tested whether phytochromes regulate this process through PIL5. Hypocotyl growth orientation away from the vertical on vertical-grown agar plates is traditionally used as an indicator of hypocotyl negative gravitropism (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). However, we found that it was difficult to illuminate the spotted seeds with exact fluence rates when plates were in a vertical position. To overcome this, we grew seeds horizontally, and then counted the number of seedlings lying flat on the agar as an indicator of hypocotyl negative gravitropism. All seedlings were able to grow upwardly under white light (Figure 7A). Because phototropism is a main determinant of hypocotyl growth orientation under white light, the result indicated that none of the seedlings have an intrinsic problem to grow upwardly. When wild-type seedlings were grown in the dark, the majority of their hypocotyls were oriented in an upward direction (Figure 7B). However, when wild-type seedlings were grown under red or far-red light, the majority of the seedlings grew flat on the agar plates (Figure 7C). Consistent with the previously defined roles of PhyA and PhyB in hypocotyl negative gravitropism, the phyA mutants grew upward under far-red light, whereas the phyB mutants grew flat under red light (Figure 7C). These results indicate that counting flat-grown seedlings on the horizontal orientation is qualitatively similar to measuring deviation from the vertical in vertical-grown seedlings as an indicator of hypocotyl negative gravitropism. [[FIGURE]] Inhibition of hypocotyl negative gravitropism was observed in the dark in the pil5 mutant, the pif3 mutant, and the pil5 pif3 double mutant, although the degrees of inhibition differed. Compared with wild-type seedlings, higher percentages of pil5 and pif3 mutant seedlings grew flat in the dark, suggesting that both PIF3 and PIL5 play roles in hypocotyl negative gravitropism in darkness. The roles of PIF3 and PIL5 in this process were additive; in the pil5 pif3 double mutant, almost 80% of seedlings grew flat in the dark, whereas ∼40% of seedlings grew flat in each of the single mutants (Figures 7B and 7C). Interestingly, this hypocotyl negative gravitropism in the dark was influenced by phyB. As shown in Figure 7C, the phyB mutant was slightly more negatively gravitropic in the dark compared with the wild type or the phyA mutant. Similarly, the pil5 phyB double mutant was more negatively gravitropic compared with the pil5 single mutant. Unlike the phyB mutant, the phyA mutant and the pil5 phyA double mutant showed similar degrees of negative gravitropism, as compared with the wild-type and pil5 single-mutant seeds, respectively. This regulation of hypocotyl negative gravitropism by PhyB in the dark is reminiscent of the regulation of germination by PhyB in the absence of any extra light treatment (Figure 5B). Although the phenotypes of the phyB mutant and the pil5 phyB double mutant suggest that PIL5 is a negative component in PhyB-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl negative gravitropism in the dark, further investigation will be required to clarify the role of PIL5 in this process. When seedlings were grown under red light, the hypocotyls of all mutant seedlings grew flat, comparable to the growth of wild-type seedlings. By contrast, when grown under far-red light, most of the mutant seedlings grew flat except the phyA and pil5 phyA mutants. The majority of the phyA mutant seedlings were negatively gravitropic under far-red light, as reported previously (CITATION), whereas the pil5 phyA double mutant showed fewer negatively gravitropic seedlings than the phyA mutant. As in PhyA-mediated seed germination, however, it was difficult to assess the role of PIL5 in PhyA-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl negative gravitropism from the pil5 mutant phenotype alone. To investigate that PIL5 is a negative regulator of PhyA-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl negative gravitropism, we measured the hypocotyl negative gravitropism of the PIL5OX line under red (2 μmol·m−2·s−1) and far-red (0.32 μmol·m−2·s−1) light. As shown in Figure 7D, overexpression of PIL5 caused hyposensitivity to far-red light, although it did not affect sensitivity to red light. Although further investigation will be warranted to clarify the role of PIL5 in PhyB signaling, our results suggest that PhyA inhibits hypocotyl negative gravitropism partly through PIL5.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown in a growth room with a 16-h light/8-h-dark cycle at 22 to 24°C for general growth and seed harvesting. A T-DNA inserted pil5 mutant (pil5-1) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Stock Center (Salk_072677) (CITATION). For PIL5OX1 and PIL5OX2 transgenic lines, full-length cDNA of PIL5 (At2g20180) was amplified with a primer set (5′-AGAGTGATCAAAAATGCATCATTTTGTCCCTGAC-3′, 5′-AGAGTGATCACCTTAACCTGTTGTGTGGTT-3′) and cloned into the GUS-deleted pBI121 vector for the expression under the control of the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus. Among primary transgenic lines, two lines (PIL5OX1 and PIL5OX2) were selected for further analysis. All plants used in the experiments (the pil5-1, the PIL5OXs, the pif3-1, the phyA-211, and the phyB-9) are Col-0 ecotype background. PIL5 expression levels were determined by RT-PCR analysis. Primers used for the RT-PCR analysis of PIL5 were 5′ primer (5′-GAGAGAATTCGGTGGCATGCATCATTTTGTCCCTGAC-3′) and 3′ primer (5′-AGAGTGATCACCTGTTGTTGATACACGTGC-3′). Recombinant phytochrome proteins were purified from Pichia using an expression vector, pPIC3.5K (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). Ten–amino acid streptavidin affinity tag (strep-tag) from pASK75 vector (Biometra, Tampa, FL) was attached to the 3′ end of the phytochrome genes. The primers, 5′-CGGGATCCACCATGGCTTCCTCAAGGCCTGCTTCC-3′ (forward, BamHI) and 5′-TCGCGTCGACTTGTCCCATTGCTGTTGGAGC-3′ (backward, SalI), were used for the subcloning of oat PhyA genes into pPIC3.5K. The primers, 5′-CTCTACGTAACCATGGTTTCCGGAGTCGGGG-3′ (forward, SnaBI) and 5′-TCGCAGCGCTATATGGCATCATCAGCATCATG-3′ (backward, Eco47III) were used for Arabidopsis PhyB. The pPIC3.5K constructs with phytochrome genes were transformed into Pichia cells using a Micropulser Electroporation apparatus (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). Recombinant phytochrome proteins were expressed in the Pichia expression system, according to the manufacturer's recommendations (Invitrogen), and purified using streptavidin affinity chromatography (Sigma-Genosys, Haverhill, UK). Phycocyanobilin was purified using Spirulina extracts (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) by methanolysis. Holophytochromes were prepared by adding chromophores in DMSO to apoproteins at a final concentration of 20 μM, and the mixture was incubated on ice for 1 h. From the harvested Pichia cells, crude extract was prepared by breaking cells in liquid nitrogen using a homogenizer (Nihonseiki Kaisha, Tokyo, Japan). The phytochrome samples were precipitated by adding 0.23 g/L ammonium sulfate, resuspended in a buffer (100 mM Tris, pH 7.8, and 1 mM EDTA), then chromophores were added to the samples for in vitro reconstitution. The direct addition of chromophores to ammonium sulfate fraction makes better reconstitution and removal of free chromophores, compared with the addition to purified apoproteins. After dialysis to remove free chromophores, the samples were loaded to streptavidin affinity chromatography and purified holophytochromes without any free chromophore. For in vitro binding assay, recombinant oat PhyA and Arabidopsis PhyB with phycocyanobilin were preilluminated with red light (18 mmol·m−2) or far-red light (2.88 mmol·m−2) to convert them to Pfr or Pr form. For the assay, 4 μg of GST-fused PIL5 protein from pET50 vector (Novagene, Darmstadt, Germany; pET42 vector without 5′ His-tag site) were mixed with 2 μg of the preilluminated phytochromes and 30 μL of 50% glutathione-agarose bead slurry in a binding buffer (50 mM Tris-Cl, pH 7.5, 1 mM EDTA, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% [v/v] Triton X-100, 0.05% [w/v] na-deoxycholate, 10% [v/v] glycerol, BSA 100 μg/mL). After incubating 2 h at 4°C in the dark, glutathione-agarose beads were collected by spin down (30 s) and washed three times with 500 μL of the binding buffer each. The binding and washing were performed under the safety green light. After washing, bound proteins were solubilized by boiling in 50 μL of SDS sample buffer. The dissolved proteins in SDS sample buffer were resolved on 8% SDS-PAGE gel and analyzed by protein gel blot with antiphytochrome antibody. To determine subcellular localization of PIL5, the coding region of PIL5 was cloned into pBI221-GUS vector. This construct was transfected to onion epidermal cells by the particle bombardment and the bombarded epidermal cells were incubated for 16 h in the dark or under white light at 22°C. The location of PIL5-GUS was determined using X-gluc. For PhyB-related seed germination assay, triplicates of 60 seeds for each mutant were surface sterilized, plated on aqueous agar medium (0.6% phytoagar, pH 5.7) and imbibed for 1 h at 22°C. Seed surface-sterilization step was included for this 1-h imbibition time. After 1 h imbibition, red or far-red light (red light, 20 μmol·m−2·s−1; far-red light, 3.2 μmol·m−2·s−1) was illuminated for 5 min and incubated for 6 d in darkness. Germinated seed was determined by radicle formation. For PhyA-related seed germination assay, triplicates of 60 seeds for each mutant were plated on aqueous agar medium and imbibed for 1 h at 22°C. As in the PhyB-related germination assay, 1-h imbibition was counted from the start of seed surface sterilization. After 1-h imbibition, far-red light (3.2 μmol·m−2·s−1) was illuminated for 5 min and incubated in the dark at 22°C for 56 h. After 56-h incubation in the dark, far-red light was illuminated for various times and incubated for 5 d in the dark. Germinated seed was determined by radicle formation. For hypocotyl negative gravitropism assay, triplicates of 60 seeds for each mutant were plated on MS agar (half-strength MS, 0.8% phytoagar, and 0.05% Mes, pH 5.7) and cold treated for 4 d in the dark. After germination was induced by white light (80 to 90 μmol·m−2·s−1) for 6 h, plates were incubated for 4 d either in the dark, continuous red light (20 μmol·m−2·s−1), continuous far-red light (0.32 μmol·m−2·s−1), or continuous white light (8 to 9 μmol·m−2·s−1). The degree of hypocotyl negative gravitropism was determined by counting flat-grown seedlings with cotyledons that touched the agar surface. To measure hypocotyl length, seeds were sterilized, plated on MS agar (half-strength MS, 0.8% phytoagar, and 0.05% Mes, pH 5.7), and imbibed for 4 d at 4°C in the dark. After germination was induced by white light (6 h at 80 to 90 μmol·m−2·s−1), plates were incubated for 4 d either in the dark, in 12-h red light (20 μmol·m−2·s−1)/12-h dark cycle, or in 12-h far-red light (3.2 μmol·m−2·s−1)/12-h dark cycle. Of 50 seedlings, hypocotyl lengths of the longest 30 seedlings were measured for each sample. F2 seeds from a cross between the pil5-1 mutant and Col-0 were plated. After plating, seeds were illuminated with far-red light (0.95 mmol·m−2) and kept for 6 d in the dark. Seventy-six out of 300 seeds were germinated. To determine if the germinated seedlings were all homozygous pil5 mutants, the pooled genomic DNA of germinated seedlings was used to amplify with a PIL5 gene–specific primer set (5′-GAGATTATGAACTTCAGCAGCACG-3′, 5′-TGGAGCTTTTATGGCAGAACGG-3′) or with a PIL5-T-DNA fusion fragment-specific primer set (5′-TGGAGCTTTTATGGCAGAACGG-3′, 5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAACT-3′).
