!~ABS~! The phytochrome (phy) family of sensory photoreceptors (phyA to phyE) in Arabidopsis thaliana control plant developmental transitions in response to informational light signals throughout the life cycle. The photoactivated conformer of the photoreceptor Pfr has been shown to translocate into the nucleus where it induces changes in gene expression by an unknown mechanism. Here, we have identified two basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors, designated PHYTOCHROME-INTERACTING FACTOR5 (PIF5) and PIF6, which interact specifically with the Pfr form of phyB. These two factors cluster tightly with PIF3 and two other phy-interacting bHLH proteins in a phylogenetic subfamily within the large Arabidopsis bHLH (AtbHLH) family. We have identified a novel sequence motif (designated the active phytochrome binding [APB] motif) that is conserved in these phy-interacting AtbHLHs but not in other noninteractors. Using the isolated domain and site-directed mutagenesis, we have shown that this motif is both necessary and sufficient for binding to phyB. Transgenic expression of the native APB-containing AtbHLH protein, PIF4, in a pif4 null mutant, rescued the photoresponse defect in this mutant, whereas mutated PIF4 constructs with site-directed substitutions in conserved APB residues did not. These data indicate that the APB motif is necessary for PIF4 function in light-regulated seedling development and suggest that conformer-specific binding of phyB to PIF4 via the APB motif is necessary for this function in vivo. Binding assays with the isolated APB domain detected interaction with phyB, but none of the other four Arabidopsis phys. Collectively, the data suggest that the APB domain provides a phyB-specific recognition module within the AtbHLH family, thereby conferring photoreceptor target specificity on a subset of these transcription factors and, thus, the potential for selective signal channeling to segments of the transcriptional network.
!~RES~! PIF3 and PIF4 have been previously reported to bind specifically to the biologically active Pfr form of phyB (CITATION; CITATION). The PIF3 group (AtbHLH subfamily number 15) consists of 15 members (CITATION). We tested eight other AtbHLHs for interaction with phyB and identified two new factors, designated here as PIF5 and PIF6, that specifically bind phyB in the Pfr form (Figure 1A). We propose this nomenclature to reflect the phy-interacting activity of these two proteins, which have been previously called PIL6 (for PIF3-LIKE6) and PIL2, respectively, based on their sequence relatedness to PIF3 (CITATION). The six other AtbHLH proteins tested did not show any detectable interactions with phyB (Figure 1B). These included three from the PIF3 group (SPATULA [SPT], CITATION; PIL1, CITATION; and BHLH023), as well as three from the neighboring AtbHLH subfamily 17 (BHLH058, BHLH059, and BHLH066). Additionally, previously reported LONG HYPOCOTYL IN FAR-RED1 (HFR1) was shown not to interact with phyB (CITATION). Recently, we have identified still another member of AtbHLH subfamily 15, designated PIF1 that binds phyB (Pfr) (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Overall, 12 AtbHLH proteins have now been tested for interactions with phyB, including the four reported elsewhere and the eight tested here (Figure 1). Out of these 12 AtbHLH proteins, only five show detectable binding to phyB. These include the previously identified PIF3 (CITATION, CITATION), PIF4 (CITATION), and PIF1 (CITATION) and the two new members, PIF5 and PIF6 (summarized in Figure 2). Significantly, all five of these factors cluster tightly within subfamily 15 of the AtbHLH phylogenetic tree. We compared the phyB binding capacities of these two new interacting factors and found that PIF6 bound a similar percentage of phyB (Pfr) input to that of PIF3 (25 to 30%), whereas PIF5 and PIF4 bound lower percentages of phyB (Pfr) input (5 to 10%, see Figure 1C). [[FIGURE]] These data suggested that the capability of the five members of the PIF3 group to specifically bind phyB (Pfr) might be because of a specific sequence or structural feature present in these AtbHLH proteins. Indeed, amino acid sequence alignments of the predicted full-length AtbHLH proteins revealed the presence of a conserved motif near the N terminus of 12 of the 15 members of the PIF3-related subfamily 15 (Figure 2). Further amino acid sequence alignments, along with Arabidopsis sequence database searches, showed that this conserved region is present exclusively in these 12 AtbHLH proteins (Figure 2). It was neither present in any other of the 162-member AtbHLH Arabidopsis family nor in any other proteins in the databases. This motif is conserved in all five of the AtbHLH proteins that we have found thus far to bind specifically to the active form of phyB. Conversely, the two out of three members of the PIF3-related subfamily 15 lacking this motif that we have tested for phyB interaction, HFR1 (CITATION) and SPT (CITATION), fail to bind to the photoreceptor (CITATION; Figures 1B and 2). Similarly, the three members of AtbHLH subfamily 17 that we have tested for phyB binding, BHLH066, BHLH058, and BHLH059, do not interact detectably with the photoreceptor and do not contain the conserved sequence. Thus, the capacity of AtbHLH proteins to bind to phyB is strongly correlated with the presence of the conserved motif. For convenience, we have designated this motif the active phytochrome binding (APB) motif (Figure 3A). The two exceptions in the PIF3 cluster, BHLH023 and PIL1, that contain the APB motif, but do not bind detectably to phyB, are discussed below. Interestingly, phylogenetic tree analysis of the APB motif (Figure 3B) suggests very similar evolutionary relationships to those previously observed with the bHLH domains of these proteins (CITATION). The conservation of the evolutionary relationships between these two distinct domains (APB and bHLH) suggests conserved evolutionary relationships in the full-length context and possible functional relationships within subgroups. Notably, PIF4 and PIF5 cluster together and are closely related to PIF3 (Figures 2 and 3B). [[FIGURE]] The APB consensus present in the N-terminal domains of the 12 AtbHLH proteins contains four invariant residues (E31, L32, G37, and Q38; PIF3 and PIF5 positions; Figure 3A). To examine if these invariant residues are important for binding, we created point mutations for each separately in PIF5 (E31A, L31A, G37A, and Q38A). The data show that these point mutations eliminate detectable PIF5 binding to phyB (Figure 4A). These results indicate that the four invariant APB residues are individually necessary for PIF5 to selectively bind phyB (Pfr). The single point mutation (G35A) in PIF4 also eliminated its interaction with phyB (Figure 4B). The same mutation in PIF3 reduced its ability to bind phyB by ∼75% (data not shown), whereas the double mutation (E31A/G37A) eliminated its interaction with phyB (Figure 4B). These data further suggest that the APB motif activity is necessary for the capability of the PIFs to bind phyB (Pfr). This contradicts our previous report suggesting that a region in PIF3 with similarity to PER-ARNT-SIM (PAS) domains was required for its interaction with photoactivated phyB (CITATION). For unknown reasons, we have been unable to reproduce these earlier results. Using the same constructs and experimental conditions as CITATION, we observed no detectable binding of phyB to deletion mutants of PIF3 lacking the N-terminal APB-containing region, despite retention of the PAS-like domain. These repeat trials are instead consistent with the data presented here, indicating that the APB motif is required for phyB binding to PIF3. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the APB motif is sufficient to bind phyB (Pfr), we constructed GAL4 activation domain (GAD) fusions with the N-terminal 100–amino acid residues of PIF3, PIF4, and PIF6 containing the APB motif (Figure 3A) for use as bait in pull-down assays. The data show that all three APB-motif fusions are capable of binding specifically to phyB (Pfr) (Figures 5A and 5B). Furthermore, GAD:APB fusion proteins carrying point mutations of invariant residues in the APB motif lose their ability to show any detectable binding to phyB, verifying the specificity of the interaction (Figure 5A). We tested the APB motif for interactions with all five Arabidopsis phytochromes (phyA, phyB, phyC, phyD, and phyE) and found that the APB motif from PIF3 (GAD:APB) specifically binds phyB (Pfr). There was no detectable binding to other phytochromes (Figure 5C). Binding experiments performed under Rc irradiation provide evidence that this absence of detectable PIF3-APB motif binding to phyA, phyC, phyD, or phyE is not attributable to rapid dark reversion of these phytochromes (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Together, then, these data provide compelling evidence that the APB motif is both necessary and sufficient for specific interactions of the PIF-bHLH transcription factors with the biologically active conformer of phyB (Figures 4 and 5). In addition, we have identified four amino acid residues in the APB consensus that are critical for APB function (Figures 4 and 5A). Quantitative comparison of the binding capacities of the various GAD:APB fusion proteins revealed that the APB motifs of PIF3 and PIF4 recovered 10 to 15% of the input phyB (Pfr) in the pellet, whereas the APB motif of PIF6 remarkably recovered ∼50% of the input phyB (Pfr) (Figure 5B), indicating a highly robust conformer-specific interaction. [[FIGURE]] Despite the fact that they contain homologies to the APB motif in their N-terminal domains, two members of AtbHLH subfamily 15, BHLH023 and PIL1, do not interact with phyB (Figures 1B, 1C, 2, and 3). Notably, however, BHLH023 lacks the conserved G (S35 instead of G; as indicated in Figures 2 and 3A), which is invariant in all other members with the APB motif. This seems likely to account for its inability to bind to phyB because point mutations (G to A) of this conserved G residue eliminate binding in PIF5 and PIF4 (Figure 4). PIL1, on the other hand, shows no detectable binding to phyB but has all four of the invariant residues (Figures 1B and 3A). It is possible that the APB motif of PIL1 lacks one or more amino acid residues yet unknown to be important for binding. The GAD:APB fusion with the APB motif from PIL1, like those from PIF3, PIF4, and PIF6, can bind phyB (Pfr) photoreversibly (Figures 5A and 5B), though the interaction is weak. Quantitative binding curves indicate that the apparent affinity of the PIL1-APB domain for phyB is approximately fourfold lower than PIF3-APB (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). It is possible that the C-terminal domain of PIL1 inhibits APB activity, perhaps by masking it and making it unavailable for interaction with phyB. This effect may also be apparent in PIF6, the closest relative of PIL1 (Figures 1A, 2, 3B, 5A, and 5B), where the APB motif of PIF6 by itself shows a very strong interaction (recovered ∼50% of input phyB; Figure 5B), but the full-length PIF6 interacts with a relatively lower affinity (25 to 30% of input phyB recovered; Figure 1C). To begin to evaluate the functional relevance of the APB-dependent phyB interactions to phyB signaling, we tested its contribution to PIF4 activity in vivo. We used the previously described pif4 mutant line, known as short under red-light2 (srl2), which is hypersensitive to Rc (CITATION). The srl2 mutant line has a T-DNA insertional disruption upstream of the NLS in the bHLH region of PIF4 (Figure 6A). This insertion results in a detectable but truncated PIF4 transcript (CITATION) that is not expected to encode a nuclear localized product capable of binding to DNA and is likely to be null for PIF4 transcriptional activity, if expressed. Initially, we demonstrated that expression of the native full-length PIF4 gene (PIF4 FL) under control of its own promoter provided phenotypic rescue of srl2 mutant seedlings (Figure 6). The transgenic line, designated PIF4 FL(2), which expresses the PIF4 mRNA at approximately threefold wild-type (Wassilewskija [Ws]) levels (Figure 7) is rescued for the srl2 phenotype (Figures 6B and 6C). By contrast, the transgenic line designated PIF4 FL(1), which is a high-level PIF4 overexpressor (25-fold relative to wild-type PIF4 levels; Figure 7), strongly overcompensates the srl2 phenotype, producing hypocotyl lengths similar to those of phyB (Columbia [Col]) in Rc (Figure 6B). By contrast, the short hypocotyl length phenotype of srl2 mutants is not, or only partially, rescued in lines carrying the G35A mutation (Figures 6B and 6C). This conserved residue G35 is required for APB-mediated interaction of PIF4 with phyB (Pfr) (Figures 4B and 5A). A second parameter of the seedling photomorphogenic phenotype observed in srl2 mutants is the enhanced expansion of cotyledon area (CITATION), which is also rescued in PIF4 FL(2) transformants expressing functional APB-containing PIF4, but not rescued in PIF4 FL(G35A) transgenic lines (Figure 6D). The cotyledon area is greatly reduced in the overexpressing PIF4 FL(1) transformants (Figure 6D). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To ensure that the absence of phenotypic rescue by the mutated PIF4 sequence was not because of lack of adequate expression of this transgene, we examined the relative PIF4 transcript levels in the transgenic lines. All of the transformants showed approximately twofold Rc light–dependant induction of the PIF4 transcript under control of the PIF4 promoter, similar to the wild-type Ws (Figure 7A). The relative levels of Rc-induced PIF4 transcripts in PIF4 FL(G35A) lines are similar to or higher than (threefold to sixfold Ws levels) the PIF4 FL(2) (threefold Ws levels) transformants that do rescue the srl2 mutant phenotype (Figures 6 and 7). We calculated the percentage of recovery in hypocotyl length in the transgenic seedlings relative to the wild type and found that the percentage of recovery of the srl2 phenotype is closely related to the PIF4 transcript levels in transformants carrying a functional wild-type APB sequence (Figures 7B and 7C). By contrast, although the PIF4 FL(G35A) transformants contain similar or higher levels of the PIF4 transcript, the srl2-mutant phenotype is not complemented by the mutated PIF4 (G35A) transgene (Figures 7B and 7C) to a comparable extent. The basis for the partial apparent rescue by the mutated APB-containing PIF4 FL (G35A) at high transcript levels (Figures 7B and 7C) is not known. One possibility is that it reflects weak residual activity of the mutated APB domain not detectable by in vitro interaction assays. Alternatively, it cannot be ruled out that the mutated APB-containing PIF4 FL (G35A) polypeptide might form a weakly active complex with a truncated PIF4 product potentially produced from the observed truncated transcript in the srl2 mutant (CITATION). Regardless, these results suggest a strong correlation between APB-dependent interaction of PIF4 with phyB (Pfr) and PIF4 function in promoting hypocotyl cell expansion (Figures 4, 6, and 7). Together, these data provide evidence that APB activity is necessary for PIF4 function in phyB signaling. To examine whether the apparent natural, non-phyB binding variant BHLH023 (Figures 1B, 2, and 3) plays a role in phy-regulated seedling deetiolation, we identified two T-DNA insertional mutants, BHLH023-101 and BHLH023-102, and tested them for seedling photomorphogenesis phenotypes. Sequence analysis shows that the points of insertion are 456 bp (BHLH023-101) and 8 bp (BHLH023-102), respectively, upstream of the NLS and the bHLH domain (Figure 8A). Based on the positions of these insertions, the mutants would be predicted to be null for nuclear translocation and DNA binding ability if not protein null. Analysis of hypocotyl length in two different Rc fluence rates revealed no detectable light-responsiveness phenotypes in the BHLH023-101 and BHLH023-102 mutants (Figure 8B). These data thus provide further evidence of a negative correlation between lack of phyB binding capacity and functional involvement of AtbHLH proteins in phy signaling and strongly support the conclusion that APB activity is directly responsible for this functional activity in APB-containing AtbHLH proteins. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds were surface sterilized, plated on growth medium without sucrose as described (CITATION), and exposed to red or far-red light treatments as described (CITATION). Fluence rates were measured using a spectroradiometer (model L1-1800; LI-COR, Lincoln, NE). Hypocotyl length measurements were performed using digital images taken with a Nikon Coolpix 990 (Tokyo, Japan) digital camera and NIH imaging software (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD). The PIF4:PIF4 full length gene (5.5-kb fragment, including ∼2 kb PIF4 promoter sequence and the 5′- and 3′-untranslated regions) was amplified from genomic DNA isolated from wild-type Col-0 using PFU Turbo Polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). Site-directed mutagenesis was performed to create the APB (G35A) mutations using the Quick Change site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene). These constructs were cloned into the pZp-121 vector (CITATION), introduced into GV3101 (MP90) Agrobacterium tumefaciens, and then used to transform srl2 mutant plants using the floral dip method as described by CITATION. Transgenic seed were selected from screening for resistance on growth medium–Suc plates containing 100 μg/mL of gentamycin, and the resistant plants were transplanted to soil and grown in greenhouse conditions. The AtbHLH full-length cDNAs (for PIF5, PIF6, SPT, BHLH007, BHLH059, and BHLH066) were obtained from the ABRC (Columbus, OH), and BHLH023 and PIL1 cDNAs were amplified from an Arabidopsis cDNA library by PCR. The bait cDNAs were cloned into pET17b in vitro expression vector (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) and sequenced. Bait proteins were expressed as fusions with the GAD sequence at either the N or the C terminus of the AtbHLH sequences as specified. The in vitro expression construct used for phyB was the same as described (CITATION). All proteins were expressed in vitro using the TnT transcription/translation system (Promega, Madison, WI) in the presence of [35S] Met. The bait was prepared by incubating the in vitro–expressed fusion proteins with monoclonal anti-GAD antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA) and Protein A attached to agarose beads for 2 h at 4°C. The bait was washed three times in 1× PBS wash buffer, pH 7.2, containing 0.1% (v/v) Tergitol Nonidet P-40 (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) and one capsule of complete protease inhibitor cocktail (Boehringer Mannheim, Mannheim, Germany). The prey (phyB) was prepared by incubating with phycocyanobilin for 1 h at 4°C in the dark, followed by a saturating 10-min red light pulse of 350 μmol m−2 s−1 (for Pfr conformer). One-half of the red light–treated prey was further treated with a saturating 5-min far-red light pulse of 297 μmol m−2 s−1 (for reconverted Pr). The prepared bait and prey were incubated together in 1× PBS binding buffer (1× PBS wash buffer including 0.1% BSA) for 2 h at 4°C, and the pellets were washed three times in the dark with the wash buffer and separated on SDS-PAGE. Quantifications were performed using phosphor imaging software. Total RNA was isolate using the Qiagen RNeasy plant mini kit (Valencia, CA) from 4-d-old seedlings either grown in the dark or exposed to Rc for 3 h. The full-length PIF4 open reading frame was used as a probe for RNA gel blots containing total RNA from the PIF4FL transgenic seedlings.
