!~ABS~! We have investigated the subcellular localization, the domain topology, and the amino acid residues that are critical for the function of the presumptive Arabidopsis thaliana auxin influx carrier AUX1. Biochemical fractionation experiments and confocal studies using an N-terminal yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fusion observed that AUX1 colocalized with plasma membrane (PM) markers. Because of its PM localization, we were able to take advantage of the steep pH gradient that exists across the plant cell PM to investigate AUX1 topology using YFP as a pH-sensitive probe. The YFP-coding sequence was inserted in selected AUX1 hydrophilic loops to orient surface domains on either apoplastic or cytoplasmic faces of the PM based on the absence or presence of YFP fluorescence, respectively. We were able to demonstrate in conjunction with helix prediction programs that AUX1 represents a polytopic membrane protein composed of 11 transmembrane spanning domains. In parallel, a large aux1 allelic series containing null, partial-loss-of-function, and conditional mutations was characterized to identify the functionally important domains and amino acid residues within the AUX1 polypeptide. Whereas almost all partial-loss-of-function and null alleles cluster in the core permease region, the sole conditional allele aux1-7 modifies the function of the external C-terminal domain.
!~RES~! As a component of the auxin uptake carrier, AUX1 is predicted to function at the plant cell plasma membrane (PM). We employed two distinct approaches—biochemical fractionation and confocal microscopy—to confirm AUX1 PM localization. Membranes were prepared using Arabidopsis root cultures (CITATION), because AUX1 localization revealed a pattern identical to that described for young seedling root cells by CITATION (data not shown). Total, soluble, and microsomal fractions were prepared from Arabidopsis root cultures, protein-gel-blotted, and then probed using an anti-AUX1 peptide antiserum (see Figure 1A). The 19-amino-acid N-terminal sequence of AUX1 was selected as the peptide antigen for antibody production because it represents the most divergent segment of protein coding sequence among the four members of the Arabidopsis AUX/LAX family (CITATION). To confirm that the anti-AUX1 antiserum did not cross-react with other members of the AUX1 protein family, samples were prepared from the wild type (Ws) and the T-DNA–tagged aux1-100 null mutant (CITATION). A cross-reacting band was detectable in the wild-type samples but not aux1-100 (Figure 1A) confirming the specificity of the antiserum for AUX1. In the wild-type extract, AUX1 was detected in the total protein sample (lane 1), was absent from the soluble fraction (lane 2), and was enriched in the microsomal fraction (lane 3), consistent with the predicted membrane localization. [[FIGURE]] Further resolution of AUX1 subcellular localization was obtained using sucrose density-based organelle fractionation (Figure 1B). Microsomes isolated from the wild type (Landsberg erecta) were subjected to subfractionation on a continuous sucrose gradient (15 to 50%). A selection of biochemical and immunological organelle markers were used (see Methods) to identify tonoplast, Golgi, PM, and ER membrane fractions (Figure 1B). The antipeptide antiserum detected the majority of AUX1 in sucrose gradient fractions comigrating with the plasma membrane H+-ATPase marker (Figure 1B). A small proportion of AUX1 was also detected in the highest density part of the gradient which also contains traces of the PM and ER markers (Figure 1B); the signal may represent a small proportion of AUX1 that resides in another compartment such as the ER, or it may be from larger aggregated membrane fragments which can tend to accumulate here during gradient fractionation. However as seen in Figure 1 AUX1 separates predominantly with the PM-enriched fractions in sucrose gradient centrifugation. A confocal microscopy-based approach independently verified our subcellular fractionation results. A transgenic Arabidopsis line expressing an N-terminal translational fusion between the AUX1 and yellow fluorescent proteins (termed N-YFP-AUX1) under the control of the native AUX1 promoter (see Methods) was crossed with the 35S promoter-driven PM marker line EGFP-LTI6a (CITATION). The spectral separation capabilities of confocal microscopy enabled us to individually image the YFP-AUX1 (Figures 2A and 2D) or EGFP-LTI6a (Figures 2B and 2E) fusion proteins in seedling roots expressing both transgenes. The N-YFP-AUX1 protein appeared to localize to the PM of root cells (Figures 2A and 2D), in a manner identical to the localization of the EGFP-LTI6a PM marker (Figures 2B and 2E). Overlaying these images revealed that N-YFP-AUX1 and EGFP-LTI6a were colocalized (Figures 2C and 2F). [[FIGURE]] YFP has a pKa value above 7.1, with fluorescence emission abrogated below pH 6.0 (CITATION), meaning that the fluorescing N-YFP-AUX1 fusion protein is unlikely to be exposed to the pH conditions (4.8 to 5.3) measured in the apoplastic space of root cells (CITATION). Indeed, transgenic root cells continued to emit YFP fluorescence even when the external media was buffered to pH 5.0 (Figures 2G to 2I). The YFP domain of the N-terminal AUX1 fusion is not therefore oriented on the apoplastic face of the PM of root cells. If oriented in the cytoplasm, we would expect N-YFP-AUX1 fluorescence to be sensitive to cytoplasmic acidification. Treatment of Arabidopsis seedling roots with the weak membrane-permeable acid, 20 mM propionic acid (buffered to pH 5), has been reported to cause rapid cytoplasmic acidification, dropping from pH 7.2 to 6.4 within 60 min (CITATION). When we exposed transgenic root cells to identical experimental conditions, N-YFP-AUX1 fluorescence was significantly reduced within 30 min (Figure 2K). We conclude from our confocal results that the N-terminal YFP domain of the AUX1 fusion must be oriented cytoplasmically. When this information is combined with our subcellular fractionation results (Figure 1B), we can conclude that the YFP domain of the AUX1 fusion must be oriented on the cytoplasmic face of the PM of root cells. As a member of the auxin-amino acid permease family (CITATION), AUX1 is predicted to function as an integral membrane protein whose transmembrane (TM) domains repeatedly span the PM (CITATION). Eleven TM helix prediction programs have been employed to model AUX1 topology (see Methods) using the ARAMEMNON database (CITATION). Their consensus predicts that the AUX1 protein contains 10 TM domains and that its N- and C-terminal domains reside outside the cell (Figure 3A). However, the latter prediction is inconsistent with the ability of the N-YFP-AUX1 fusion protein to fluoresce in the PM of transgenic root cells (Figure 2) and the absence of either a cleavable or noncleavable signal sequence that would be required by the AUX1 N-terminus to traverse the ER membrane. Given the discrepancy between the predicted and experimental data, we decided to directly test AUX1 topology in planta by creating a series of additional YFP translational fusions in the first and second hydrophilic loops predicted within the AUX1 protein sequence by the ARAMEMNON database (Figure 3A). We would then assess whether the particular AUX1 hydrophilic domain that YFP was inserted into was oriented internally (cytoplasmic) or externally on the basis of the presence or absence of fluorescence, respectively. [[FIGURE]] To create these AUX1-YFP fusions, an in-frame KpnI restriction enzyme site was engineered into the AUX1 gene by PCR mutagenesis after codons 116 and 165, then the full length YFP coding sequence (except start and stop codons) was cloned at the engineered KpnI sites of the AUX1 gene to create the AUX1-YFP116 and AUX1-YFP165 transgenes, respectively (see Methods). Transgenic aux1 roots expressing each AUX1pro:AUX1-YFP transgene was imaged using confocal microscopy (Figure 2). The AUX1-YFP116 protein exhibited strong protein fluorescence, indicative that its domain was orientated in the cytoplasm (Figure 2M). By contrast, transgenic root cells expressing the AUX1-YFP165 fusion protein did not fluoresce (Figure 2N), consistent with its domain being extracytoplasmic. Immunolocalization of the AUX1-YFP165 fusion was necessary to demonstrate that the loss of fluorescence was because of its protein topology, rather than destabilization. Anti-GFP antibodies revealed that the AUX1-YFP165 protein was expressed and targeted identically to both N-YFP-AUX1 and AUX1-YFP116 (Figure 2O). Hence, loss of AUX1-YFP165 fluorescence was consistent with its hydrophilic loop projecting into the low pH environment of the apoplastic space. Our experimental results demonstrate that the first hydrophobic region which the N-YFP and YFP116 fusions flank must be composed of not one, but two TM domains for both fusion proteins to orient YFP on the cytoplasmic PM face (Figure 3A). This explanation is further strengthened by the observed extracytoplasmic orientation of the AUX1-YFP165 fusion. We therefore conclude from our YFP-based topological studies that AUX1 contains not 10, but 11 TMs (Figure 3B), consistent with results obtained for another member of the auxin-amino acid permease family, NAT2/AAP1, using an epitope-tagged recombinant NAT2/AAP1 protein expressed in animal tissue culture cells (CITATION). Little is known about the functionally important residues and domains that are critical for AUX1 activity. Molecular and phenotypic characterization of a series of allelic mutations provides a very effective experimental approach to investigate such functionally important features (CITATION). We have assembled a large aux1 allelic series, including 13 newly isolated (this study) and two previously identified missense mutations (CITATION; CITATION). New aux1 alleles were isolated from two EMS-mutagenized populations (totaling 25,000 M1 plants) that were screened for seedling roots exhibiting resistance to a concentration of the synthetic auxin 2,4-D that inhibits wild-type root elongation (CITATION). Forty-one of the seedlings recovered were later shown to be allelic to aux1 (A. Marchant and M. J. Bennett, unpublished results). The 41 aux1 alleles were isolated from 31 of the 50 M2 pools screened, and were therefore likely to represent a large number of independent mutations within the AUX1 gene. To determine the molecular basis of each mutation, RT-PCR was performed to amplify the mutated aux1 cDNA template which was then sequenced. Each mutation was confirmed by sequencing the corresponding region of genomic DNA. The molecular lesions for 17 new and existing aux1 alleles were determined (see Supplemental Table 1 online). With the exception of T-DNA–tagged aux1-100 and the aux1-21 alleles in which a single base deletion resulted in a frame shift, all other mutations arose from single base substitutions within the transcribed AUX1 sequence. Of the 22 aux1 alleles described in this study, 15 represent independent novel missense alleles (see Supplemental Table 1 online). The frequency of the 15 missense alleles along the length of the amino acid sequence was plotted to identify functionally important regions in AUX1. The 485 amino acids were first divided into five windows of 100 amino acids, then a q-value was calculated for each window to assess the statistical probability of the observed distribution being significantly different from a Poisson prediction of random distribution. Windows with high q-values are those in which significantly more or fewer missense mutations are observed than would be expected by random distribution. Eight of the 15 missense alleles occurred in the 201 to 300 window (Table 1), which exhibits a q-value implying a >99% probability that the larger number of mutations occurring in this window is not by chance (data not shown). The q-value is still >99% when taking into account the GC content of this window (data not shown), given the preference of EMS for causing G-to-A mutations (CITATION). This region therefore appears to be particularly important for AUX1 function. Summary of Missense Substitutions in the aux1 Allelic Series and Their Properties The number of non-sense mutations versus other classes of mutations was double the theoretically expected value (15% versus 7.23% when expressed as a percentage of the total number of loss-of-function mutations), suggesting that mutations which do not cause a loss of function must occur, but were not recovered in our 2,4-D screen. This could imply that fewer loss-of-function mutations occur in some regions of the AUX1 sequence than others. Only one missense mutation was recovered in the N-terminal third of the AUX1 primary sequence (Figure 3B), suggesting that this region may tolerate amino acid substitutions more than the 201 to 300 window. To probe the functional importance of the N-terminal third of AUX1, we examined whether the N-YFP-AUX1, AUX1-YFP116, and AUX1-YFP165 fusion proteins retained biological activity. Each of the AUX1pro:AUX1-YFP transgenes described in Figure 2 had originally been transformed into the null aux1-22 mutant background, allowing us to assess whether any of the AUX1-YFP fusions retained biological activity on the basis of complementation of the aux1 root defect. Root gravitropic assays revealed that the AUX1pro:AUX1-YFP116 transgene was able to rescue the aux1 agravitropic phenotype (Figure 4D) and restore a wild-type level of 2,4-D sensitivity (Figure 4F). Neither the N-YFP-AUX1 (Figure 4C) nor AUX1-YFP165 (Figure 4E) fusion proteins rescued aux1-22 gravitropism, despite a slight reversal of the aux1-22 2,4-D insensitive root phenotype (Figure 4F). The reduced activity of either fusion is unlikely to be attributable to the YFP insertion causing AUX1 misfolding, because we would expect the proteins to be degraded, as observed for a C-terminal AUX1-YFP fusion (data not shown) and several missense alleles (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Neither can the reduction in N-YFP-AUX1 or AUX1-YFP165 activity be explained by loss of protein stability or targeting, because both fusion proteins were clearly detectable and exhibited a pattern of localization identical to the functional AUX1-YFP116 fusion (Figure 2M). Instead, the N-terminal and loop 3 regions appear to be important for AUX1 function once the protein is localized at the root cell PM, by possibly impairing functionally important protein-protein interactions. By contrast, YFP inserted into the cytoplasmic loop 2 does not disrupt AUX1 protein function. Our AUX1-YFP116 results suggest that selected regions within the N-terminal third of the AUX1 primary sequence can indeed tolerate modifications without loss of protein function. [[FIGURE]] A search of the entire AUX1 primary amino acid sequence (see Methods) revealed it to be consistent with earlier assignments to the subfamily of membrane-spanning permeases with specificity for amino acids or related compounds. Additionally, consensus sites were identified for posttranslational modifications including N-myristoylation (14 sites), N-glycosylation (four sites), and protein kinase C and Casein kinase II phosphorylation sites (four and two sites, respectively). Of the 15 missense mutations, 13 occur within both the core permease region of the protein and nine of these map to individual predicted transmembrane regions (see Figure 3B). A further mutation (aux1-112) maps to a potential N-myristoylation site, located close to the end of predicted TM4 (Table 1). A Clustal primary sequence alignment between AUX1, LAX1, LAX2, LAX3, and AAP1 revealed that several of the aux1 missense alleles result from amino acid substitutions at highly conserved residues (Figure 5). For example, the Gly residue substituted in the aux1-117 allele was highlighted by CITATION as part of one of the most highly conserved motifs (GYAAFG) shared among the AAAP family of proteins. Nevertheless, the importance of the majority of the residues identified in the aux1 allelic series could not have been inferred on the basis of their sequence conservation alone, highlighting the effectiveness of our forward genetic approach compared with site-directed mutagenesis to identify functionally important amino acids. [[FIGURE]] The root gravitropic response of each missense mutant was assayed to discriminate between null and partial-loss-of-function aux1 alleles. Vertically grown seedlings were given a 90° gravity stimulus for 24 h before measuring the angle of root curvature (CITATION). All wild-type (Ws) roots (n = 50) responded to the 90° gravity stimulus by turning between 80° and 120° within 24 h (Figure 6). Eighteen of the 22 aux1 alleles exhibited a fully agravitropic root growth behavior (Figure 6; see Supplemental Table 1 online) identical to the non-sense allele wav5-33 (CITATION; CITATION). Roots from the missense alleles aux1-2, aux1-113, aux1-114, and aux1-116 (Figure 6) exhibited a nonrandom pattern of root growth after the gravity stimulus, suggesting that they may retain partial AUX1 function. Elongation assays observed that the four aux1 alleles exhibited a sensitivity to auxin which was intermediate to null aux1 and wild-type roots (see Supplemental Figure 2 online), implying that aux1-2, aux1-113, aux1-114, and aux1-116 represented partial-loss-of-function alleles. [[FIGURE]] It was necessary to establish the basis for the partial-loss-of-function phenotypes of the aux1-2, aux1-114, aux1-113, and aux1-116 alleles compared with the null phenotype of other aux1 mutants (Figure 6; see Supplemental Table 1 online). To assess whether this simply reflected the differential stability of partial-loss-of-function versus null mutant proteins, root microsomes from all loss of function aux1 missense alleles described were characterized by protein gel blot immunodetection using an anti-AUX1 anti-peptide antiserum (see Methods). AUX1 was detected in all null and partial-loss-of-function missense alleles, with the exception of aux1-103 and aux1-112 (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Instead, the phenotypic severity predicted for each aux1 missense mutant appeared to more closely correlate with the chemical relatedness of the amino acid side chain that substituted the original wild-type residue (termed the physiochemical distance; PHCD) (Table 1; CITATION). Missense substitutions in null aux1 alleles had PHCD values above 91 (91 to 155), whereas partial-loss-of-function aux1 alleles has PHCD values below 74 (10 to 74). The single exception to this trend is the Ser-to-Asn substitution at amino acid 386 in the aux1-118 allele which has a low PHCD value of 46, but causes a null phenotype. CITATION reported that the aux1-7 allele was conditional; the root defects could be rescued by a gamma-pyronyl-triterpenoid saponin, chromosaponin I (CSI). We tested whether any other aux1 alleles were conditional by examining if CSI could restore their root gravitropic phenotypes of a selection of aux1 missense mutants (Figure 7). The effects of 60-μM CSI on the root gravitropic response of the aux1-2, 1-7, 1-114 (Figure 7B) and aux1-102, 1-104, 1-105, 1-111, 1-113, 1-116, 1-117, and 1-120 alleles (data not shown) was examined after a 90° gravity stimulus (CITATION). With the exception of aux1-7, 60-μM CSI failed to restore the gravitropic phenotype of the remaining aux1 missense alleles (Figure 7B). Conversely, CSI treatment completely blocked the partial gravitropic response of aux1-2 and aux1-114 alleles, and also impaired the wild-type controls response (Figure 7B). [[FIGURE]] The allele-specific rescue of aux1-7 gravitropism by CSI suggests that the saponin does not bypass the requirement for a functioning influx carrier by nonspecifically permeabilizing plant cell to auxin. Instead, our results suggest that CSI rescues aux1-7 gravitropism by either interacting with (1) the mutant C-terminal domain to restore AUX1-7 function or (2) via an another mutation in the aux1-7 background. To discriminate between these possibilities, we examined whether CSI was able to rescue gravitropism of a null aux1-22 line expressing a HA-AUX1-7 transgene. We reengineered the HA-AUX1 transgene (CITATION) to include the aux1-7 mutation (Table 1), then transformed the HA-aux1-7 transgene into a null aux1-22 background. Unlike the wild-type HA-AUX1 transgene (CITATION), HA-aux1-7 transgene lines (termed HAaux1-7-1 and HAaux1-7-2) did not rescue the agravitropic phenotype of the aux1-22 mutant allele (Figure 7A). However, root gravitropism could be restored when either HA-aux1-7-1 or HAaux1-7-2 seedlings were grown in the presence of CSI (Figure 7B). Hence, the allele-specific rescue of aux1-7 gravitropism by CSI must be attributable to a direct interaction between the saponin and mutant C-terminal domain. CSI could rescue aux1-7 gravitropism by either restoring HA-AUX1-7 protein targeting and/or permease activities. We investigated whether the aux1-7 genetic lesion disrupted AUX1 protein targeting using an immunolocalization approach. Confocal microscopy revealed that HA-AUX1-7 localization in root apical cells was identical to the wild-type HA-AUX1 control (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). For example, the mutant HA-AUX1-7 and wild-type HA-AUX1 proteins were PM-localized in lateral root cap cells. Similarly, localization of the mutant HA-AUX1-7 protein in protophloem cells was identical to wild-type HA-AUX1. We conclude from the wild-type localization of the HA-AUX1-7 protein that this mutation in the C-terminal domain influences AUX1 activity, rather than protein targeting.
!~MM~! Microsomal membranes were prepared using Arabidopsis thaliana root cultures grown in hormone-free media containing 0.32% Gamborgs B5 salts (Sigma, Poole, UK), 0.1% Mes, pH 5.8, and 2% sucrose at 22°C with gentle shaking (20 to 30 rpm) in diffused light for 21 d. The roots were washed with chilled sterile distilled water, dried, quickly frozen in liquid nitrogen, and then stored in −70°C. Microsomal membranes were prepared from frozen root tissue by the modified methods of CITATION and CITATION. All the manipulations were performed at 4°C. Five grams of root tissue was homogenized in 3 to 4 mL of the homogenization buffer (0.5 M sucrose, 50 mM Hepes-OH, pH 7.5, 0.5% polyvinyl polypyrrolidone, 0.1% [w/v] sodium ascorbate, 1 mM DTT, and Complete Protease Inhibitor cocktail; Roche, Basel, Switzerland). The homogenate was filtered through 100-μm mesh nylon, and the resulting filtrate centrifuged for 12 min at 2800g at 4°C. Microsomal fraction was pelleted by further centrifugation at 200,000g for 33 min at 4°C. The microsomal pellet was washed and resuspended in a minimal volume of TEDM buffer [25 mM Tricine, pH 8.0, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, 5 mM Mg(CH3COO)2, 1 μM pepstatin, 1 μM leupeptin, 2 μg/mL aprotinin, and 1 mM 4-(2-aminoethyl)-benzensulphonylfluoride]. Ten micrograms of protein from each fraction was separated by 7.5% SDS-PAGE and electroblotted onto a polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) membrane (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA). PVDF membranes were probed with a rabbit anti-AUX1-N-terminal-peptide polyclonal antibody [raised against a synthetic peptide: MSEGVEAIVANDNGTDQVNG(C)] and secondary goat anti-rabbit IgG-HRP (Sigma) antibodies, then visualized by chemiluminescence using the ECL system (Amersham-Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala, Sweden). Arabidopsis (Landsberg erecta) root cultures were grown aseptically on a rotary shaker (80 rpm, 24°C, 150 lux) in Gamborgs B5 salts plus vitamins (Sigma), 1.0 g L−1 Mes-KOH, pH 5.8, 2% (w/v) sucrose. Microsomal fractions were prepared as described by CITATION, but with the low-speed fraction centrifuged at 12,000g for 10 min. Supernatants were centrifuged at 80,000g, 4°C, for 45 min, and the microsomal pellets were washed through sucrose density gradient buffer (250 mM sucrose, 10% glycerol, 2 mM BTP-Mes, pH 7.0) and pelleted for 45 min at 100,000g before suspending in fresh sucrose density gradient buffer. For microsomal fractionation, 10 mg microsomal protein was suspended on a 15 to 50% (w/w) continuous sucrose gradient containing in 2 mM Tris-Mes, pH 7.0, 2 mM DTT and centrifuged at 80,000g for 3 h. Fractions were washed through 250 mM sorbitol, 10% glycerol, 10 mM Tris-Mes, pH 7.0, and 2 mM DTT and pelleted for 45 min at 100,000g before resuspending to 150 μL in fresh wash buffer. Membrane marker proteins were detected immunologically and biochemically in equal volumes from each fraction. For protein gel blot analysis, 10 μL of each fraction was separated by 7.5% SDS-PAGE and electroblotted onto a PVDF membrane (Bio-Rad). Membranes were probed with anti-AUX1 (see above); the PM marker, anti-PMA2 (H+-ATPase) (CITATION); the ER marker, anti-BiP (from M. Chrispeels, La Jolla, CA); and the tonoplast marker, anti- H+-PPase (CITATION). Probed PVDF membranes were stripped with 2% SDS (w/v), 100 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, and 62.5 mM Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, at 55°C for 30 min between uses. Enzyme activities of the PM marker, vanadate-sensitive H+-ATPase activity at pH 7.0 and the Golgi marker, latent UDPase activity at pH 6.5, were assayed at 37°C in 40 mM Tris-Mes containing 100 mM sodium molybdate, 2 mM MgSO4, 50 mM KCl, 2 mM ATP, and 100 mM sodium orthovanadate, or 2 mM UDP ± 0.01% Brij 58. Activities were determined from rate of phosphate release by measurement of OD720 after addition of Ohnishi reagents (CITATION). Protein contents were determined using BSA standards. Details of marker enzyme analysis and protein determinations are given in CITATION. The NHA aux1-7 transgene was created by subcloning a PCR product from aux1-7 genomic DNA into a NHA-AUX1 construct (CITATION). Cloning into binary vector, Agrobacterium tumefaciens transformation, and plant transformation into an aux1 mutant background were done as described by CITATION. Homozygous lines carrying single transgene were then used for immunolocalization of AUX1-7 protein as described by CITATION. To create AUX1-YFP fusions, an in-frame KpnI restriction enzyme site was engineered into the AUX1 gene by PCR mutagenesis after codon 2 (for NYFP-AUX1), 116 (for AUX1-YFP116), and 165 (for AUX1-YFP165). Full-length YFP sequence (except start and stop codons) was PCR-amplified using primers with in-frame KpnI restriction enzyme sites at the ends and subsequently cloned at the engineered KpnI sites of the AUX1 gene to create NYFP-AUX1, AUX1-YFP116, and AUX1-YFP165, respectively. Cloning into binary vector, Agrobacterium transformation, and plant transformation into an aux1 mutant background were done as described by CITATION. Homozygous lines carrying single transgenes were grown as described by CITATION and visualized directly under a confocal microscope (see below). AUX1-YFP165 seedling roots were counterstained with propidium iodide (5 μg/mL) for 20 to 30 min before confocal microscopy (Figure 2O). Immunolocalization of AUX1-YFP165 fusion protein was performed as described in CITATION using a polyclonal rabbit anti-GFP primary antibody (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) and Oregon-green–coupled anti-rabbit secondary antibody (Molecular Probes). Confocal microscopy was performed using a Leica SP2 laser scanning microscope equipped with argon krypton and green HeNe lasers and an AOBS scan head system (Leica Microsystems, Bannockburn, IL) capable of spectrally separating the emission from GFP and YFP (Figures 2A and 2B). The 488- and 514-nm excitation lines of an argon ion laser were used to excite GFP and YFP, respectively. Experimental manipulation of the external and cytoplasmic pH of Arabidopsis root cells (Figures 2G to 2L) was performed as described by CITATION. Kalman averaging was performed over 16 frames for single images. Images were processed using the Leica CONFOCAL software and Adobe Photoshop (version 7.01; Adobe Systems, San Jose, CA). The 11 algorithms employed by the ARAMEMNON database (CITATION; see http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de; Figure 3A) were used to predict the number of AUX1 trans membrane-spanning domains and the topology of their hydrophilic loops. A variety of other Web sites were also used to predict transmembrane regions and orientation from the AUX1 protein sequence, including: CONPRED II (see http://bioinfo.si.hirosaki-u.ac.jp/∼ConPred2/), DAS (see http://www.sbc.su.se/∼miklos/DAS/maindas.html), HMMTOP 2.0 (see http://www.enzim.hu/hmmtop/html/submit.html), MEMSAT 2 (see http://bioinf.cs.ucl.ac.uk/psipred/psiform.html), PHDhtm (see http://npsa-pbil.ibcp.fr/cgi-bin/npsa_automat.pl?page=/NPSA/npsa_htm.html), PRED-TMR (see http://biophysics.biol.uoa.gr/PRED-TMR/input.html), PRED-TMR 2 (see http://biophysics.biol.uoa.gr/PRED-TMR2/input.html), SOSUI (see http://sosui.proteome.bio.tuat.ac.jp/sosui_submit.html), TMAP (see http://bioweb.pasteur.fr/seqanal/interfaces/tmap.html), TMHMM 2.0 (see http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM-2.0/), Tmpred (see http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/TMPRED_form.html), and TopPred II (see http://bioweb.pasteur.fr/seqanal/interfaces/toppred.html). The frequency that missense alleles occur along the length of the AUX1 amino acid sequence was calculated as described by CITATION to identify functionally important regions. The 485 amino acids were first divided into five windows of 100 amino acids, then a q-value was calculated for each window to assess the statistical probability of the observed distribution being significantly different from a Poisson prediction of random distribution (see Results). The χ2 tests were also done to see if the residues of specific amino acids are mutated to, or are from, loss-of-function (LOF) missense mutants. At a P-value of 0.05, missense LOF mutations in aux1 are significantly more likely to occur in Gs and Cs of Gly and Met than in Gs and Cs of other amino acid codons. These amino acids could, therefore, be more important to the functional sites or stability of AUX1. The As and Ts of Arg, Asp, and Glu residues were created preferentially to As and Ts of other amino acids in missense LOF mutations. These amino acid substitutions could be particularly damaging to AUX1's structure or function because they are all charged and hydrophilic. Bioinformatic analysis of the AUX1 sequence to identify functional domains, motifs, signatures, and sites of posttranslational modification was performed using PFAM (see http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Software/Pfam/), SMART (see http://smart.ox.ac.uk/), and PROSITE (see http://ca.expasy.org/prosite/) programs. Clustal was used to generate a multiple alignment between AUX1 (At2g38120) and related sequences LAX1 (At5g01240), LAX2 (At2g21050), LAX3 (At1g77690), and AAP1 (At1g58360). Altogether, 25,000 M1 seeds of Arabidopsis ecotype Ws were initially treated with 50 mM EMS for 4 h, rinsed repeatedly, then immediately sown in 50 pools of 500 plants on soil (50:50 mix of vermiculite:potting compost). Approximately 6000 M2 seeds from each pool were selected on 2,4-D selective media for root elongation (as described in CITATION). Auxin-resistant seedlings were crossed with the null aux1-100 mutant to test for allelism and also backcrossed at least once with Col. To determine the molecular basis of each aux1 mutation, RT-PCR was performed to amplify the AUX1 cDNA template, which was then sequenced. Each mutation was confirmed by sequencing the corresponding region of genomic DNA (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Isolation of RNA, cDNA synthesis, and DNA sequencing were performed as described by CITATION. Vertically grown wild-type and aux1 seedlings were given a 90° gravity stimulus for 24 h before measuring the angle of root curvature (as described in CITATION). Although wild-type roots turned between 80° and 120° within 24 h, aux1 null alleles exhibited a fully agravitropic root growth behavior akin to the non-sense allele wav5-33 (CITATION), and partial-loss-of-function alleles responded more slowly to the gravity stimulus in the 24-h assay period (Figure 6). Experiments on each aux1 allele were performed at least three times. The effects of 60 μM CSI on the root gravitropic response of Col, aux1-2, aux1-7, and aux1-114 alleles and transgenic lines HA1-1 and 2-1 were examined after a 90° gravity stimulus as described by CITATION. Auxin root elongation assays were performed on Col, aux1-22, and AUX1-YFP expressing aux1-22 seedlings as described by CITATION. Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession numbers At2g38120 (AUX1), At5g01240 (LAX1), At2g21050 (LAX2), At1g77690 (LAX3), and At1g58360 (AAP1).
