!~ABS~! To investigate the nuclear-controlled mechanisms of [4Fe-4S] cluster assembly in chloroplasts, we selected Arabidopsis thaliana mutants with a decreased content of photosystem I (PSI) containing three [4Fe-4S] clusters. One identified gene, ACCUMULATION OF PHOTOSYSTEM ONE1 (APO1), belongs to a previously unknown gene family with four defined groups (APO1 to APO4) only found in nuclear genomes of vascular plants. All homologs contain two related motifs of ∼100 amino acid residues that could potentially provide ligands for [4Fe-4S] clusters. APO1 is essentially required for photoautotrophic growth, and levels of PSI core subunits are below the limit of detection in the apo1 mutant. Unlike other Arabidopsis PSI mutants, apo1 fails to accumulate significant amounts of the outer antenna subunits of PSI and PSII and to form grana stacks. In particular, APO1 is essentially required for stable accumulation of other plastid-encoded and nuclear-encoded [4Fe-4S] cluster complexes within the chloroplast, whereas [2Fe-2S] cluster–containing complexes appear to be unaffected. In vivo labeling experiments and analyses of polysome association suggest that translational elongation of the PSI transcripts psaA and psaB is specifically arrested in the mutant. Taken together, our findings suggest that APO1 is involved in the stable assembly of several [4Fe-4S] cluster–containing complexes of chloroplasts and interferes with translational events probably in association with plastid nucleoids.
!~RES~! In a systematic screen for nuclear-encoded factors responsible for acclimation and maintenance of PSI biogenesis, we identified Arabidopsis mutants incapable of photoautotrophic growth (CITATION). We selected 87 mutants with visible phenotypes that exhibited an albinotic or pale phenotype and seedling lethality. Mutant plants that were grown heterotrophically often survived, indicating photosynthetic deficiencies as primary defects. All analyses were performed with plants grown in vitro. On sugar-supplemented medium, the otherwise albinotic apo1 mutant showed a very pale and high chlorophyll fluorescence (hcf) phenotype, indicating substantial loss of chlorophyll and that absorbed light energy cannot be used efficiently, which is therefore dissipated as increased red chlorophyll fluorescence (Figure 1A). The T-DNA–induced apo1 mutation of Arabidopsis was selected because it caused a complete loss of PSI activity (see below). Growth at 10 μmol photons m−2 s−1 was slower, but leaf morphology and development were unaltered in apo1 in comparison to wild-type plants (Figure 1A). Under moderate light intensities of 50 μmol photons m−2 s−1, mutant plants bleached rapidly, indicating increased light sensitivity. [[FIGURE]] The light-induced in vivo chlorophyll fluorescence measurements can serve as a sensitive tool to estimate the excitation state of PSII reaction centers. The ratio of variable fluorescence to maximum fluorescence (Fv/Fm) reflects the potential capacity of the photochemical reaction of PSII (CITATION). The fluorescence is quenched by the use of light energy (photochemical quenching [qP]) measured at intensities of 3 and 30 μmol photons m−2 s−1. Fv/Fm reached levels of 0.62 ± 0.06 in apo1 as compared with 0.81 ± 0.02 in the wild type, indicating partial loss of PSII capacity or a stimulated emission of PSI antenna pigments that contribute to a higher minimum fluorescence with no effect on Fv. At the lower light regime, qP was reduced to 0.84 in the mutant as compared with 0.98 in the wild type (Figure 1B). At still moderate light intensities of 30 μmol photons m−2 s−1, dramatic deficiencies were observed in qP processes in apo1. Whereas wild-type plants exhibited a qP of 0.81 under steady state conditions, apo1 failed to quench most of the variable fluorescence (qP < 0.06; Figure 1B). Such a behavior is typical for mutants affected in electron transport processes independent of PSII (CITATION). This inference was confirmed by measuring the light-induced redox kinetics of the PSI pigment P700. Under normal conditions, P700 is completely reduced in the dark and oxidized to its maximum level in selective PSI light, whereas under steady state conditions in heterochromatic light, the P700 redox state is adjusted somewhere in between (CITATION). Although the dual wavelength pulse amplitude–modulated system was set at maximal sensitivity, light-induced P700 redox changes were below the limit of detection in apo1, indicating complete loss of PSI function (data not shown). In plants grown heterotrophically, levels of chlorophylls were ∼10-fold reduced in apo1 as compared with wild-type seedlings (1.84 ± 0.09 mg/g fresh weight in the wild type and 0.17 ± 0.03 mg/g fresh weight in mutants). The ratio of chlorophyll a to chlorophyll b was altered from 2.88 ± 0.04 in the wild type to 2.64 ± 0.12 in the mutant. The photosynthetic pigment absorbance spectra demonstrated that the typical maxima at 430 and 670 nm for chlorophyll a, at 450 nm for chlorophyll b, and at 473 nm for carotenoids were present in the mutant (Figure 1C). The second derivative of the absorbance spectra showed a much broader carotenoid band at 473 nm in apo1, which is indicative of a relatively high carotenoid content and of an increased sensitivity to light (Figure 1C; CITATION). Fluorometric studies at 77K showed that the PSII-specific band at 685 nm was present in the mutant and not shifted to shorter wavelengths. This indicates that PSII reaction centers are present at normal levels relative to the outer light-harvesting complex II (LHCII) and that excitons can be efficiently transferred from LHCII to the inner PSII antenna (CITATION). The usually most-abundant PSI-specific absorbance band at 735 nm was reduced to a hardly detectable shoulder in the spectra of apo1 (Figure 1D). Therefore, it appears that PSII complexes are functionally assembled, whereas the whole PSI complex, including the outer antenna, severely and specifically fails to accumulate in apo1. Stationary protein levels were normalized by equal loading of mutant and wild-type membrane and soluble proteins of the chloroplast. Immunological analysis of apo1 revealed that nuclear-encoded and plastid-encoded proteins of PSII (subunits PsbB, PsbC, PsbD, and PsbO1/2) and cytochrome b6f complex (subunits PetA and PetB) accumulated to significant levels between 50 and 100% (Figure 2A). Amounts of the ATP synthase (subunits AtpA and AtpG) and the soluble PetH and PetE proteins encoding ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase and plastocyanin, respectively, were unaltered in apo1. By contrast, only traces, if any, of the nuclear-encoded and plastid-encoded intrinsic PSI proteins PsaA/B, PsaC, PsaD, and PsaF could be detected in apo1 (Figure 2A). [[FIGURE]] Levels of the peripheral antenna proteins of PSI were strongly reduced in apo1, amounting to ∼10% for LhcA1 and LhcA3 and ∼20% or less for LhcA2 and LhcA4 as compared with those of the wild type (Figure 2B), confirming the conclusions deduced from 77K fluorescence data. The inability of apo1 to accumulate significant amounts of the four antenna proteins of PSI contrasts findings on other known Arabidopsis PSI mutants because they are primarily and specifically affected in the accumulation of all core subunits but not to this extent of the outer antenna (CITATION; CITATION). Remarkably, the outer PSII antenna proteins LhcB1 and LhcB2 were also significantly reduced to <20% of the wild type (Figure 2B). Recent findings show that Fe-S cluster assembly is important for stable accumulation of PSI and other proteins or complexes within the chloroplast (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To investigate whether APO1 has additional targets that participate in chloroplast biogenesis, we studied the accumulation of several plastid Fe-S cluster–containing complexes and proteins (Figure 2C). Ferredoxin, which contains a [2Fe-2S] cluster, is not affected in size or in abundance in apo1. By contrast, the mutants have significantly reduced levels of [4Fe-4S] cluster–containing complexes like the ferredoxin-thioredoxin reductase (FTR) and NAD(P)H-dependent dehydrogenase (NDH). The deficiency in accumulation of [4Fe-4S] clusters does not appear to be characteristic for mutants lacking PSI because hcf145, which is also missing the PSI core complex, shows normal levels of other chloroplast [4Fe-4S] cluster proteins (Figure 2C; CITATION; CITATION). The abundance and sizes of nuclear (psaD, psaE, psaF, psaG, and psaH) and all plastid transcripts encoding PSI proteins (the trimeric psaA-psaB-rps14, psaC, psaI, and psaJ) were identical in mutant and wild-type plants as determined by RNA gel blot analysis and by expression profiling using macroarrays that were equipped with probes of all plastid genes (Figure 3A; data not shown). Transcript levels of the nuclear cab and rbcS genes, which are well known to be significantly reduced when the functional state of the chloroplast is arrested at an early stage (CITATION), were unaltered as well in apo1 (Figure 3A). [[FIGURE]] RNA gel blot analysis demonstrates that the psaA-psaB genes yield just a single prominent, tricistronic RNA of 5.3 kb in Arabidopsis. Primer extension studies uncovered that the 5′ transcript terminus of the psaA-psaB-rps14 tricistron is unaltered in apo1 when compared with the wild type (Figure 3B). Therefore, we conclude that the apo1 mutant exhibits normal promoter usage, integrity, and abundance of psaA-psaB-rps14 transcripts. PSI protein abundance could be limited by translational disturbances in the mutant. Therefore, pulse labeling of membrane-bound and soluble proteins of the chloroplast was performed with [35S]Met in the presence of the cytoplasmic translation inhibitor cycloheximide. With the exception of one plastid-encoded protein of 35 kD, biosynthesis of other detectable soluble proteins in the stroma was unchanged in apo1 (Figure 3C). Labeling of ATP synthase subunits α and β (AtpA and AtpB) was slightly increased in the mutant relative to the wild-type control based on equal loading of radioactive label. Incorporation of radioactivity into the PSII proteins PsbA (D1) and PsbD (D2) was comparable to that in wild type, but labeling of the chlorophyll binding proteins PsbB and PsbC was reduced. These data demonstrate the pleiotropy of the phenotype. As a control, the labeling pattern of apo1 was compared with that of another Arabidopsis PSI mutant, hcf145, accumulating only ∼10% of the tricistronic psaA-psaB-rps14 mRNA (CITATION). The hcf145 mutant specifically exhibits decreased levels of PsaA and PsaB radiolabeling (Figure 3C) and, similar to apo1, increased incorporation of label into AtpA and AtpB. A failure to radiolabel the PSI core proteins PsaA and PsaB in apo1 could reflect that the rates of translation of the two PSI reaction center subunits are repressed in apo1. However, it also remains possible that the synthesis of PsaA and PsaB is unchanged in apo1, but the proteins or the nascent chains are rapidly degraded during the time course of the experiment. If translation of psaA and psaB mRNAs is perturbed in apo1, changes in polysome association for the psaA and psaB transcripts could be expected. Polysomal loading was analyzed by sucrose density gradient centrifugation. The sizes and distribution of polysomes loaded with psaC and psbA transcripts did not differ in the mutant when compared with the wild type (Figure 3D). However, polysomes associated with tricistronic psaA-psaB-rps14 transcripts were shifted to decreased sucrose concentrations, suggesting a failure in the functional loading of psaA-psaB-rps14 transcripts with ribosomes in the mutant. To test whether initiation or elongation of translation is affected in apo1, the translation inhibitor lincomycin that prevents reinitiation and forces previously initiated ribosomes to run off was applied to wild-type and mutant plants 4 h before polysome isolation. As expected, the inhibitor caused banding of psaA-psaB-rps14 mRNAs at much lower sucrose concentrations in wild type, whereas in apo1 lincomycin induced a less prominent liberation of psaA-psaB transcripts from ribosomes, indicating that translational elongation is retarded in the mutant (Figure 3D). Lincomycin treatment of the mutant was as effective as in the wild type because psbA-containing and rRNA-containing polysomes were shifted toward the top of the gradient to the same extent in both cases. Therefore, it appears that APO1 is not needed for initiation but rather specifically for elongation of psaA and psaB translation, cofactor assembly during translation, or targeting of the nascent chains to their right place. However, the changes in the size of polysomes could also reflect an assembly mediated regulation of translation (CITATION). The ultrastructure of the apo1 was compared with that of three other PSI-specific mutants, hcf101, hcf140, and hcf113, and the wild type (Figure 4). Wild-type chloroplasts showed a well-developed membrane system consisting of interconnected grana and a random distribution of starch grains. The apo1 plastids were ∼3 to 4 times smaller than those of the wild type and appeared to be swollen. The mutant forms rudimentary thylakoids consisting only of stroma lamellae and fails to accumulate grana stacks. This indicates that membrane development is arrested at a very early morphological stage and distinguishes apo1 from other PSI mutants, which form larger (hcf101), swollen (hcf140), or unoriented (hcf113) grana stacks but only fragmentary stroma lamellae (Figure 4). The small size of the chloroplasts in apo1 also explains the low level of chlorophyll based on the fresh weight. [[FIGURE]] The apo1 mutation segregated in a Mendelian manner and was mapped between the two microsatellite markers nga128 and chr1-110 on the lower part of chromosome 1 at position 23.395 ± 0.8 Mb. Neither known genes encoding plastid ribosomal proteins nor PSI genes map in this region (CITATION), suggesting that APO1 encodes a novel protein. The kanamycin resistance conferred by the introduced T-DNA cosegregated with the mutant phenotype in 384 analyzed segregants, indicating that APO1 is tagged by the insertion. The localization of APO1 to the lower part of chromosome 1 was confirmed by isolation and sequencing of the T-DNA left-border and right-border flanking regions by inverse PCR (Figure 5A). Using APO1 and T-DNA right-border probes for DNA gel blot analyses confirmed a single T-DNA insertion that cosegregates strictly with the apo1 mutation (Figure 5B). The location of the insertion site close to the 5′ end of APO1 at position 24.153 Mb of chromosome 1 (position +103 relative to the APO1 start codon) is consistent with the mapping data. The full-length cDNA of APO1 was isolated using a rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) approach (CITATION). Interestingly, the APO1 start codon is localized in the second exon (Figure 5A). Expression of the full-length APO1 cDNA under the control of the 35S RNA Cauliflower mosaic virus promoter functionally complemented the mutant phenotype, resulting in the development of fully green seedlings which grew photoautotrophically and showed all physiological chlorophyll fluorescence and P700 redox characteristics which are typical for the wild type (Figure 5C; data not shown). [[FIGURE]] APO1 transcripts of 1.65 kb could be detected in the wild type but were absent in apo1, consistent with the T-DNA insertional inactivation of the APO1 gene (Figure 5D). Because transcript abundance of APO1 was very low even in the wild type, the precise expression levels of APO1 were estimated by real-time RT-PCR using 18S rRNA for normalization. Twelve-day-old dark-grown wild-type seedlings expressed 23% ± 5% of the light control. Expression in roots, stems, siliques, and flowers was 28% ± 3%, 63% ± 6%, 23% ± 4%, and 69% ± 6%, respectively, relative to that found in leaves. Although substantial transcript levels were already present in dark and in roots, expression of APO1 appears to be stimulated during photomorphogenesis. This implies important roles of APO1 in the dark and also in nonphotosynthetic tissues. In vitro synthesized APO1 precursor proteins of 49 kD were imported into chloroplasts and processed to a mature size of 42 kD (Figure 6A), demonstrating the presence of a cleavable transit peptide even if no chloroplast target sequence was identified with any of the prediction programs available in public databases. [[FIGURE]] To sublocalize APO1 within the chloroplast, the APO1 cDNA was translationally fused to the green fluorescence protein (GFP) and transiently expressed in isolated protoplasts. The green fluorescence was found exclusively in chloroplasts consistent with the findings of the in organello experiments (Figure 6B). Although there is a diffuse GFP signal apparently throughout the stroma, much of the APO1-GFP fusion resided in distinct spots within the organelle. Comparing the fluorescence induced by GFP with that induced by 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI)–stained cells indicates that the fluorescent labels of both samples overlapped. Therefore, APO1 appears to be associated with plastid nucleoids (Figure 6B). The relative intensity of the APO1-GFP and DAPI fluorescence varied in the individual spots, indicating that APO1 has a higher affinity to a distinct fraction of nucleoids. It is important to note that APO1-GFP association with nucleoids does not seem to reflect an unspecific aggregation of overexpressed protein because the compartmentalization was also apparent in chloroplasts with barely detectable APO1-GFP fluorescence and not observed with other highly expressed chloroplast-targeted GFP fusions showing a uniform distribution (CITATION). The APO1 gene encodes a previously unknown protein and shows similarities to genes only found in vascular plants (Figure 7; data not shown). The absence of similarities in the sequenced genomes of eubacteria, archaebacteria, or Chlamydomonas indicates that the APO gene family evolved after the divergence of the green lineage or has been lost in related lineages. Using public databases (http://bioinf.cs.ucl.ac.uk/psipred/; http://us.expasy.org), all attempts to identify sequence motifs or domains within APO1 that are indicative of a function failed. Because the instability index of APO1 is computed to be 44.97, the protein is classified to be unstable (CITATION). According to structural predictions, APO1 consists of extensive random coiled (58%) and, to a lesser extent, of alpha helical (28%) and extended strand (14%) structures (theoretical pI 9.27). [[FIGURE]] The APO1 protein contains 436 amino acid residues and has a deduced molecular mass of 49.6 kD consistent with the size of in vitro translated APO1 proteins (Figures 6A and 7A). Three additional homologous genes of unknown function, APO2 to APO4, are present in the Arabidopsis genome. Interestingly, each of the four APO proteins possesses an orthologous counterpart in the rice genome (Figure 7B). Therefore, the APO gene family consists of four distinguishable groups that are present in both monocotyledonae and dicotyledonae. APO1 to APO4 show much fewer similarities in the N terminus than in the remaining part of the proteins, indicating different localizations and/or functions. APO2 is also predicted to be localized in the chloroplast. In rice (Oryza sativa), APO3 is computed to be present in the chloroplast as well, whereas the Arabidopsis protein is predicted to be localized in mitochondria. APO4 is computed to represent a mitochondrial protein in both organisms. All members of the previously unknown APO gene family contain a 100 amino acid residue–spanning region (APO motif 1) with conserved Cys, His, Gly, and acidic and basic amino acids (Figure 7). The highly conserved APO motif 1 is duplicated at the C terminus (designated APO motif 2). These two motifs are always separated from each other by a less-conserved spacer that is also variable in length but in groups 1 to 3 contains one conserved Met embedded within positively charged amino acid residues directly upstream of APO motif 2 (Figure 7). A similar sequence is also present downstream of APO motif 2 close to the C terminus in all groups. APO motif 1 is followed by a short stretch containing positive charges in groups 1 to 3. The highly conserved signature of both motifs in APO1, which fits to all members of the APO gene family in vascular plants, can be defined as C-x2-C-x3-(H,Q)-x4-GH-x4-C-x11-H-x-W-x6-D-x8-H-x(20-26)-PA-x2-E(L,I)C-x3-G. The conserved Cys in both motifs could provide ligands for tetranuclear Fe-S centers (CITATION). Several conserved differences between the two motifs could indicate different functions (Figure 7B). For example, both motifs, APO 1 and 2, contain a conserved H in another position. Two conserved R residues are present in APO motif 1 and two K residues in motif 2. In addition, APO motif 2 contains conserved G, VW, YG, and A residues, which are not present in APO motif 1 in any of the groups (Figure 7).
!~MM~! The apo1 mutant, accession Wassilewskija, was selected from a T-DNA insertion collection (CITATION) obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Ohio State University, Columbus, OH). Wild-type and mutant strains were grown under greenhouse conditions or on sucrose-supplemented medium as described (CITATION). In all analyses, phenotypically wild-type plants of heterozygous progenies grown under the same conditions were compared with apo1. Selection of mutant plants was facilitated by a chlorophyll fluorescence imaging system (FluorCam690M; Photon System Instruments, Brno, Czech Republic). For translation inhibition, hypocotyls of 3-week-old wild-type and mutant plants were clipped in a solution containing nutrients and 400 mg/L lincomycin. Chlorophyll fluorescence measurements at room temperature were performed using a pulse amplitude–modulated fluorometer equipped with a data acquisition system PDA100 to record fast changes (PAM 101; Walz, Effeltrich, Germany). Consecutive saturating light pulses of 800 ms were applied by halogen lamps. The connected emitter–detector subunit allowed us to measure the light-induced P700 redox kinetics by absorbance changes at 830 nm. Chlorophyll fluorescence emission spectra at 77K of grinded leaves were recorded as described (CITATION). For pigment isolation, 150 mg of lyophilized leaves were ground in 1 mL of acetone containing 25 mg of Na2CO3. After centrifugation, the pigment absorbance spectra were registered in the wavelength region from 350 to 750 nm. Chlorophyll amounts were calculated according to CITATION. For genetic crosses, male plants of the accession Landsberg erecta were used to generate the F2 mapping population. Single mutant seedlings were chosen for mapping the APO1 gene using the microsattelite marker nga128 (http://www.arabidopsis.org/) and the marker chr1-110 (5′-CAC ACA TAT TAA CGA GTG GAT TGA CG-3′ and 5′-GGA CTC AAA TAT GTG ACA AGA GTA AGA CTC-3′) on chromosome 1 at positions 20.234 and 25.364 Mb, respectively. T-DNA flanking sequences were isolated by inverse PCR. SalI-digested genomic DNA was religated and subsequently subjected to PCR using the primers 5′-CAC CTG TCC TAC GAG TTG C-3′ and 5′-GCA TAG ATG CAC TCG AAA TCA GCC-3′. PCR products were cloned and sequenced. The 5′ end of the APO1 cDNA was determined by RACE experiments with the 5′ RACE primer SMART (BD Biosciences Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) and the gene-specific primer apo1-r2 (5′-ACT TGT CTG CTC TCT ATG CTT CTG ATT-3′) located within the coding region. The full-length cDNA of APO1 was amplified by PCR using the 5′ end primer apo1-f (5′-CAC GGT CTG AGC TGA TTG CGT GTT CTC-3′) and the TAA stop codon–containing primer apo1-r (5′-CCA AGG ACT TAT GCG ACC ATG TCG GCT TCC-3′). The product obtained was cloned into the SmaI site of the binary plant transformation vector pS001 (CITATION). Heterozygous offsprings were transformed via Agrobacterium tumefaciens using the floral dip method (CITATION). RNA gel blot analysis and the hybridization probes were described by CITATION). Additional plastid probes were generated by amplifying specific regions of the Arabidopsis thaliana plastome (CITATION). Poly(A+) mRNA was isolated using Oligo(dT) beads according to the manufacturer's instructions (Dynal, Oslo, Norway) and used for RACE experiments. Total RNA was isolated and subjected to RNA gel blot analysis as described (CITATION). Quantitative two-step RT-PCR for apo1 and wild-type mRNA was performed using the LightCycler system (Roche Molecular Biochemicals, Mannheim, Germany) applying the SYBR Green protocol (CITATION). Real-time PCR was performed with APO1 exon-specific primers (5′-GCT TCT GGT TTC TCC TGC TTG TAG AGG TG-3′ and 5′-ACT TGT CTG CTC TCT ATG CTT CTG ATT-3′) and, as an internal control, with 18S rDNA primers (5′-GCT CAA AGC AAG CCT ACG CTC TGG-3′ and 5′-GGA CGG TAT CTG ATC GTC TTC GAG CC-3′). Serially diluted samples of the APO1 cDNA were used for the calibration curve. Isolation of polysomes from leaves of 3-week-old plants was performed essentially as described in CITATION. Polysome aliquots were layered onto 15% to 55% sucrose gradients and centrifuged for 65 min at 272.000 g and 4°C in a SW60 Ti rotor (Beckman, Munich, Germany). Fractions of 0.4 mL were collected, and the RNA obtained was subjected to RNA gel blot analysis. The APO1 cDNA was amplified with primers 5′-GTA ATA CGA CTC ACT ATA GGG CTT ATA TAG TCA ACA-3′ and 5′-CCA AGG ACT TAT GCG ACC ATG TCG GCT TCC-3′ that generate a T7 promoter upstream of the coding region, allowing in vitro transcription. Isolated chloroplasts were incubated for 0, 5, 10, and 20 min with labeled in vitro translation products of apo1 generated in cell-free wheat germ extracts in the presence of [35S]Met (Roche Molecular Biochemicals). Chloroplasts were purified, washed twice, and treated with thermolysin when indicated, and isolated proteins were subjected to SDS-PAGE (CITATION). Gels were dried and exposed to phosphor imaging plates (BASIII Fuji Bio Imaging plates and BAS2000 software package [Tokyo, Japan] and the AIDA software package version 3.25 beta; Raytest, Straubenhardt, Germany). PCR products of the APO1 cDNA were generated using primers 5′-ACT TAT ATA GTC GAC ATG CTT CTG GTT TCT-3′ and 5′-GAT ATC CAC GTC GAC CGA TCA CTC TCT TCC-3′ and cloned into the SalI site of the GFP expression vector pOL-LT (CITATION), producing a translational fusion of the APO1 protein containing APO motif 1 with GFP. GFP was transiently expressed in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) protoplasts using the polyethylene glycol protocol (CITATION). Fluorescence was visualized using a fluorescence microscope equipped with a digital camera (Axioplan; Zeiss, Jena, Germany). Primer extension reactions were performed with 50 μg of DNase-treated RNA using the Superscript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen, Karlsruhe, Germany) and the fluorochrome-labeled primer 5′-GTG AGC ATC AGC ATG TAG GTT CCA GAT CC-3′ annealing to the psaA 5′ coding region. Sequencing and product analysis was performed using the LI-COR 4200IR2 two-laser system (MWG Biotech, Ebersberg, Germany). Membrane proteins of 3-week-old plants were isolated substantially as described (CITATION). The supernatant of the first centrifugation, which contained the soluble proteins, was precipitated with 15% trichloroacetic acid. The sediment was washed twice with 80% acetone and resuspended in 100 mM Na2CO3, 10% sucrose, and 50 mM dithioerythritol. Proteins separated by SDS-PAGE were transferred to polyvinylidene difluoride membranes (Amersham Buchler, Braunschweig, Germany), incubated with specific antibodies (CITATION), and visualized by the enhanced chemiluminescence technique (Amersham Buchler). In vivo labeling of leaf proteins was performed as described (CITATION), with the exception that the hypocotyls of plants were first cut in the antibiotic-containing solution and subsequently immersed into the appropriate medium supplemented with [35S]Met (50 mCi; specific activity >1000 Ci/mmol) for 20 min. Sample preparation for ultrastructural analysis and electron microscopy were performed as described (CITATION). The GenBank accession number of the Arabidopsis APO1 cDNA reported in this article is AY466161. Accession numbers or names for other genes mentioned in this article are At5g57930.1, At5g61930.1, and At3g21740.1 (Arabidopsis APO2 to APO4 genes, respectively), AL662950, AK104342, AP003840, and AK064525 (rice APO1 to APO4 genes, respectively).
