!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis tandem-pore K+ (TPK) channels displaying four transmembrane domains and two pore regions share structural homologies with their animal counterparts of the KCNK family. In contrast to the Shaker-like Arabidopsis channels (six transmembrane domains/one pore region), the functional properties and the biological role of plant TPK channels have not been elucidated yet. Here, we show that AtTPK4 (KCO4) localizes to the plasma membrane and is predominantly expressed in pollen. AtTPK4 (KCO4) resembles the electrical properties of a voltage-independent K+ channel after expression in Xenopus oocytes and yeast. Hyperpolarizing as well as depolarizing membrane voltages elicited instantaneous K+ currents, which were blocked by extracellular calcium and cytoplasmic protons. Functional complementation assays using a K+ transport-deficient yeast confirmed the biophysical and pharmacological properties of the AtTPK4 channel. The features of AtTPK4 point toward a role in potassium homeostasis and membrane voltage control of the growing pollen tube. Thus, AtTPK4 represents a member of plant tandem-pore-K+ channels, resembling the characteristics of its animal counterparts as well as plant-specific features with respect to modulation of channel activity by acidosis and calcium.
!~RES~! Members of the Arabidopsis TPK family (AtTPK1 to -5) share a common topology and exhibit a predicted 14-3-3 binding motif at their amino terminus, together with a putative Ca2+-binding domain at their carboxyl terminus (FIG-REF). AtTPK4 represents a structurally unique member within this family because it lacks both regulatory sites (see Fig. 7). To gain insights into the biological function of AtTPK4, we localized and functionally expressed this Arabidopsis channel and characterized a corresponding knockout mutant.  AtTPK4 Is Expressed in Pollen and Localizes to the Plasma Membrane. A combination of RT-PCR and RACE techniques were used to amplify the predicted AtTPK4 cDNA from flowers. By using quantitative real-time RT-PCR, very low transcript numbers (close to the resolution limit of this method) were detected in leaves, roots, pods, and stems (FIG-REF). Flowers in general, and pollen in particular, however, represented the sites of highest AtTPK4 mRNA abundance. In addition, pollen express the Shaker-like inward rectifiers AKT1 and AKT6 (CITATION), as well as the so far uncharacterized AKT5 channel. Both Arabidopsis K+-efflux channels, the root stelar outward rectifier stelar K+ outward rectifier (SKOR) (CITATION) and the guard cell outward rectifier guard cell outward rectifying K+ channel (GORK) (CITATION), were found to be expressed in pollen, too (data not shown). In addition to AtTPK4, all other members of the TPK family are expressed in flowers (data not shown). To study the cellular specificity of AtTPK4 promoter activity throughout plant development, a 5′ upstream sequence of the AtTPK4 gene was translationally fused to the E. coli β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene and transferred to the nuclear genome of A. thaliana. Transgenic plants harboring the fusion construct AtTPK4:GUS exhibited GUS activity in root tips (5 of 20 lines), hypocotyls (2 of 20 lines), and pollen grains (all lines; FIG-REF and see Fig. 8, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). When AtTPK4 was transiently expressed, as a translational fusion with the GFP in onion epidermal cells, 24 h after ballistic bombardment AtTPK4::GFP was localized to the plasma membrane, as well as in compartments of the secretory pathway (FIG-REF). In contrast to AtTPK4, AtTPK1 was localized at the vacuolar membrane (FIG-REF; cf. refs. CITATION and CITATION).  AtTPK4 Mutants Exhibit Altered Electrical Plasma Membrane Properties. To elucidate the physiological role of AtTPK4, we isolated a homozygous T-DNA insertion line (SALK 000212; tpk4-1). In tpk4-1 mutants, the T-DNA insertion site was verified by sequencing to be 72 bp downstream of the ATG start codon (FIG-REF). Remarkably, the T-DNA was inserted twice with left-border sequences oriented toward the AtTPK4 gene. As a result of the insertion, AtTPK4 transcripts were not detectable in tpk4-1 homozygous plants, indicating a knockout situation (FIG-REF). According to the expression of AtTPK4 in pollen, and possibly hypocotyls and root tips, tpk4-1 plants were analyzed for phenotypic changes in a number of growth assays. No impairment of pollen germination rate and growth, as well as hypocotyl or root growth, was detectable in knockout plants (data not shown). Using the double-barreled impalement technique, we characterized the electrophysiological properties of WT and mutant pollen tubes in more detail (FIG-REF). When impaling intact pollen tubes derived from WT plants, we found the electrical properties of the pollen tube plasma membrane to be dominated by three major conductances. At depolarizing membrane voltages, slowly activating, voltage-dependent, outward-rectifying currents were activated, whereas hyperpolarizing voltage pulses elicited time- and voltage-dependent inward currents. In addition, an instantaneously activating, voltage-independent conductance superimposed the two rectifiers (FIG-REF Left). This instantaneous current, however, was significantly reduced in pollen tubes of the tpk4-1 mutant (FIG-REF Right). Thus, the ratio of the instantaneous and time-dependent currents between -180 to -20 mV was lower in tpk4-1 than in WT plants (FIG-REF). This finding indicates that AtTPK4 contributes to the voltage-independent background currents of the pollen tube plasma membrane (cf. ref. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  AtTPK4 Is a K+-Selective “Open Rectifier.” To gain insights into the biophysical properties of AtTPK4, this two-pore channel was functionally expressed in Xenopus oocytes and analyzed by using the two-electrode voltage-clamp technique. After pulses to hyperpolarizing and depolarizing voltages, instantaneous, K+-selective currents were recorded (FIG-REF). The current-voltage (I-V) curve showed a strong asymmetry under nearly symmetrical K+ concentrations (100 mM K+ outside), with ohmic behavior at voltages negative to the potassium reversal voltage (EK) (FIG-REF). Positive to EK, saturation followed by a negative slope conductance was observed. The oocyte plasma membrane showed nearly Nernstian voltage shifts upon changes in external K+ concentrations (FIG-REF), with a shift of 62.5 ± 2.2 mV per 10-fold change in external K+ concentration (FIG-REF). In accordance with the properties of a K+-selective channel, the relative permeability of AtTPK4 for monovalent cations was (mean ± SE, n = 3). AtTPK4-mediated inward currents were almost completely blocked by 5 mM external Cs+, whereas a voltage-dependent block of the inward currents at high external Ca2+ (30 mM) became evident at voltages more negative than -100 mV (FIG-REF). In cell-attached as well as inside-out patches from AtTPK4-expressing oocytes, single 68- to 70-pS channels could be resolved (cf. Figs. FIG-REF and FIG-REF). The open channel I-V curve of a single AtTPK4 channel showed an asymmetrical shape very similar to that of the whole-cell I-V curve, indicating that the weak inward rectification results from a fast open channel block (FIG-REF), rather than from a lower open probability (P o) at positive voltages. Single-channel properties in response to voltage steps and ramps were in agreement with the macroscopic AtTPK4 currents (compare FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  AtTPK4 Complements Growth of a Yeast Mutant. To further elucidate the physiological role of AtTPK4, we expressed this channel in a K+ transport-deficient mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (CITATION). In accordance with a plasma membrane-localized K+ channel, growth assays under K+-limiting conditions demonstrated the capability of AtTPK4 to complement growth of the yeast mutant (FIG-REF). After yeast growth at different external calcium concentrations, we found AtTPK4-mediated growth rescue at 100 μM potassium when calcium concentration was low (200 μM). At 5 mM calcium in the medium, yeast growth was inhibited already at 10 times higher potassium supply (1 mM) (FIG-REF). Patch-clamp analyses of AtTPK4-expressing yeast cells (FIG-REF) confirmed the electrophysiological properties of this K+ channel recognized in Xenopus oocytes. Single-channel recordings on AtTPK4-expressing yeast allowed us to deduce a slope conductance of 77 pS (195/150 mM KCl; FIG-REF and Fig. 9, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). The time-averaged I-V relationship exhibited the typical features of an open rectifier (FIG-REF). These data clearly demonstrate that, in both eukaryotic expression systems, Xenopus oocytes and yeast cells, the AtTPK4 channel is translocated to the plasma membrane. It should be noted that AtTPK1 failed to restore growth of the K+ transport-deficient yeast mutant (FIG-REF). AtTPK1 translationally fused to GFP associated with the vacuolar membrane of yeast cells only (data not shown), consistent with its targeting in plant cells (CITATION, CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  AtTPK4 Is Sensitive to Acidosis. Modulation of animal TPK channels has been shown to be mediated by various stimuli, such as mechanical stress and temperature, or protons (CITATION, CITATION). In contrast to plant Shaker-like channels and members of the animal tandem-pore K+ channels of the tandem-pore acid-sensing K+ channel (TASK) family (CITATION). Arabidopsis AtTPK4 was not sensitive to changes in extracellular pH. Cytoplasmic acidosis in AtTPK4-expressing oocytes in response to acetate treatment, however, suppressed AtTPK4-mediated whole-cell currents completely (FIG-REF), a behavior that distinguishes the Arabidopsis channel from, e.g., TWIK-related K+ channel (TREK)-1, an acid-activated K+ channel (CITATION). The mechanism of acid-mediated current reduction was analyzed during pH changes from pH 7.5 to 6.3 at the cytoplasmic side of an inside-out patch (FIG-REF). Although the open-channel current amplitudes did not change during bath perfusion with buffers of different pH, cytosolic acidification drastically reduced the open probability of AtTPK4. Thus, the reversible modulation of channel activity by cytoplasmic protons points to an intrinsic pH sensor in the AtTPK4 channel, a feature reminiscent of the human two-pore channels two P domain weak inwardly rectifying K+ channel (TWIK)-1 and TWIK-2 (CITATION, CITATION) and of the yeast two-pore channel two P domain outwardly rectifying K+ channel (TOK) 1 (CITATION). To test the mechano-sensitivity of the AtTPK4 channel, we coexpressed AtTPK4 with the Samanea aquaporin SSAQP2 (CITATION) and applied osmotic stress. Unlike TWIK-related K+ channel (TREK)-1 (CITATION), AtTPK4 was only moderately sensitive to membrane stretch (oocyte swelling). Hypoosmotic steps from 400 to 70 mosmol increased AtTPK4-mediated whole-cell inward currents in Xenopus oocytes up to 30% in a reversible manner (data not shown). Like TREK-1, AtTPK4 was heat-activated (FIG-REF), and, from an Arrhenius-plot of the maximal chord conductance, a Q10 of 3.6 for temperatures >20°C and a Q10 of 1.7 for temperatures <20°C could be determined (see Fig. 10, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). These data implicate future studies toward the mechano- and temperature dependence of WT and mutant pollen tube growth. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~!  Plant and Growth Conditions. Arabidopsis thaliana cv. Col-0 WT and transgenic plants were grown in half-concentrated Murashige and Skoog medium or in soil (for details and the generation of an AtTPK4-GUS fusion construct and the identification of an AtTPK4 mutant, see Supporting Methods, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site).  RT-PCR Experiments. RT-PCR was performed on mRNA isolated from various Arabidopsis tissues essentially as described in ref. CITATION (for details, see Supporting Methods).  Functional Analysis in Xenopus Oocytes. AtTPK4 cRNA was prepared by using the mMESSAGE mMACHINE RNA Transcription kit (Ambion, Austin, TX). Oocyte preparation and cRNA injection have been described elsewhere (CITATION) (for details, see Supporting Methods).  Yeast-Based Growth Assay and Electrophysiology. For functional expression in the K+ transport-deficient yeast mutant PLY246, AtTPK4 was cloned into the pFL61 Escherichia coli-yeast shuttle vector. The basic procedures for transforming and growing of yeast cells, as well as for yeast protoplast isolation for patch-clamp analyses, were as described in ref. CITATION (for details, see Supporting Methods).  Pollen Electrophysiology. Electrophysiological recordings were performed on pollen tubes of A. thaliana cv. Col-O and a tpk4-1 T-DNA [portion of the Ti (tumor-inducing) plasmid that is transferred to plant cells] insertion line. Pollen from mature flowers were directly dipped onto agar plates containing pollen germination medium as described in ref. CITATION complemented with 1 mM KCl (for details, see Supporting Methods).  Localization Studies. To localize AtTPK4 and AtTPK1, the respective cDNAs were cloned into pPILY (CITATION), and stop codons were mutated by site-directed mutagenesis. The mgfp4 coding cDNA was inserted 3′ and in frame with the channel cDNAs to gain plasmids 2x35S:AtTPK4::mgfp4 and 2x35S:AtTPK1::mgfp4, respectively. Plasmids carrying either construct were transiently expressed in onion epidermis cells by using a helium-driven particle inflow gun.
