!~ABS~! Rha1, an Arabidopsis Rab5 homolog, plays a critical role in vacuolar trafficking in plant cells. In this study, we investigated the localization of Rha1 and Ara7, two Arabidopsis proteins that have highly similar amino acid sequence homology to Rab5 in animal cells. Both Ara7 and Rha1 gave a punctate staining pattern and colocalized when transiently expressed as GFP- (green fluorescent protein) or small epitope-tagged forms in Arabidopsis protoplasts. In protoplasts, transiently expressed Rha1 and Ara7 colocalized with AtPEP12p and VSRAt-1, two proteins that are known to be present at the prevacuolar compartment (PVC). Furthermore, endogenous Rha1 also gave a punctate staining pattern and colocalized with AtPEP12p to the PVC. Mutations in the first and second GTP-binding motifs alter the localizations of GFP: Rha1[S24N] in the cytosol and Rha1[Q69L] in the tonoplast of the central vacuole. Also, mutations in the effector domain and the prenylation site inhibit membrane association of Rha1. Based on these results, we propose that Rha1 and Ara7 localize to the PVC and that GTP-binding motifs as well as the effector domain are important for localization of Rha1 to the PVC.
!~RES~! Rha1 and Ara7 (Anuntalabhochai et al. 1991, Terryn et al. 1993, Ueda et al. 2001) have highly similar amino acid sequences to each other and to the Rab5 protein found in animal cells. We recently demonstrated that they play a critical role in vacuolar trafficking in plant cells (Sohn et al. 2003). To advance our understanding of their role in vacuolar trafficking, we examined their localization. We used in vivo targeting approaches in protoplasts (Kim et al. 2001, Lee et al. 2002) using green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged fusion proteins (GFP:Rha1 and GFP:Ara7). Rab proteins have previously been shown to localize correctly at their target membranes when fused with GFP (Sonnichsen et al. 2000, Ueda et al. 2001). The two constructs, GFP:Rha1 and GFP:Ara7, were introduced into protoplasts obtained from Arabidopsis leaf tissues and the localization of these proteins was examined at various time points after transformation. As shown in Fig. 1A, GFP signals from GFP:Rha1 and GFP:Ara7 in most of the transformed protoplasts appeared as punctate stains. The punctate staining pattern of GFP:Ara7 was also demonstrated previously (Ueda et al. 2001). The nearly identical staining pattern of these two proteins suggests that they localize to the same compartment. To confirm that the GFP tag of GFP:Rha1 does not affect the localization of Rha1, we assessed the localization of Rha1 tagged with the influenza virus hemagglutinin A (HA) epitope (Chen et al. 1993) at its N-terminus. Protoplasts were cotransformed with GFP:Rha1 and HA:Rha1. The localization of HA:Rha1 was examined by immunohistochemistry using anti-HA antibody and GFP:Rha1 was directly observed using green fluorescence from the fixed cell. As shown in Fig. 1B (panels a–c), the green fluorescent signals of GFP:Rha1 closely overlapped the red fluorescent signals of HA:Rha1 detected by an anti-HA antibody. Next, we determined whether Rha1 colocalizes with Ara7. Protoplasts were transformed with GFP:Ara7 and HA:Rha1 and localization of these proteins was examined. As shown in Fig. 1B (panels e–g), the punctate staining patterns of HA:Rha1 and GFP:Ara7 closely overlapped, indicating that both proteins localize to the same compartment. To confirm the expression of HA:Rha1 in protoplasts as well as the specificity of the anti-HA antibody, protein extracts from protoplasts transformed with HA:Rha1 were analyzed by Western blot. As shown in Fig. 1C, the antibody detected a specific band at 28 kDa, the expected position of HA:Rha1, in transformed protoplasts but not in untransformed protoplasts, confirming the expression of HA:Rha1 and the specificity of the anti-HA antibody. We then identified the organelles to which these proteins localize. Since Rha1 is critical in vacuolar trafficking (Sohn et al. 2003), we first determined whether the punctate staining pattern represents the PVC by comparing the localization of GFP:Rha1 with AtPEP12p, a marker of the PVC (da Silva Conceicao et al. 1997, Bassham and Raikhel 1998). AtPEP12p was tagged with the HA epitope to detect its expression with the anti-HA antibody. First we examined expression of AtPEP12p by Western blot analysis. As shown in Fig. 2A, a 35 kDa protein band, the expected position of AtPEP12p:HA, was specifically detected from protein extracts obtained from protoplasts transformed with AtPEP12p:HA but not from untransformed protoplasts, confirming expression of AtPEP12p:HA in protoplasts. Next we examined localization of AtPEP12p:HA in protoplasts cotransformed with AtPEP12p:HA and GFP:Rha1. AtPEP12p:HA was detected by immunohistochemistry using anti-HA antibody. AtPEP12p:HA stained in a punctate pattern (Fig. 2B, panel b), as observed previously with AtPEP12p (da Silva Conceicao et al. 1997, Li et al. 2002). In addition, red fluorescent signals of AtPEP12p:HA closely overlapped green fluorescent signals of GFP:Rha1 (Fig. 2B, panels a–c). Furthermore, the GFP signals of GFP:Ara7 closely overlapped the red signals of AtPEP12p:HA at the punctate stains in protoplasts cotransformed with GFP:Ara7 and AtPEP12p:HA (Fig. 2B, panels e–g). Next, we quantified the degree of overlap between AtPEP12p:HA and GFP:Rha1 and between AtEPEP12p:HA and GFP:Ara7. As shown in Fig. 2C, over 85% of both GFP:Rah1- and GFP:Ara7-positive punctate stains overlapped with those of AtPEP12p:HA. Only a minor fraction of Rha1 and Ara7 did not colocalize with AtPEP12p:HA. One possible explanation is that a minor portion of Rha1 may localize to other compartments. These results strongly suggest that both GFP:Rha1 and GFP:Ara7 colocalize to the PVC. For additional confirmation, we compared the localization of GFP:Rha1 with that of the endogenous Arabidopsis vacuolar sorting receptor (VSRAt-1), an Arabidopsis BP-80 homolog (also known as AtELP) (Ahmed et al. 1997). VSR proteins are predominantly concentrated on the PVCs in root tip cells and tobacco BY-2 suspension culture cells (Li et al. 2002, Tse et al. 2004). Thus, the anti-VSR antibody raised against VSRAt-1 (Li et al. 2002, Tse et al. 2004) serves as a PVC marker. Previously this antibody had been used to detect VSR homolog in BY-2 cells and shown to recognize specifically a protein band at 80 kDa (Li et al. 2002, Tse et al. 2004). Furthermore, it had been shown to colocalize with PEP12p at the PVC. When we performed Western blot analysis with protein extracts obtained from leaf tissues of Arabidopsis, it also specifically recognized an 80 kDa band, an expected size of Arabidopsis VSR (Fig. 3A). Next, we examined the staining pattern of VSRAt-1 using the anti-VSR antibody. As shown in Fig. 3B, endogenous VSRAt-1 stained in a punctate pattern in leaf protoplasts, as observed in root tip and tobacco BY-2 cells (Li et al. 2002, Tse et al. 2004). As a control for immunostaining, a control rabbit serum was used and did not give any staining (Fig. 3B, panel c), confirming the specificity of anti-VSR antibody. To examine whether GFP:Rha1 colocalizes with VSRAt-1, protoplasts transformed with GFP:Rha1 were stained with the anti-VSR antibody. As shown in Fig. 3C (panels a–c), the green punctate stains of GFP:Rha1 closely overlapped the red punctate stains of VSRAt-1. However, a fraction (approximately 17%) of red punctate VSRAt-1 stains did not overlap GFP:Rha1 speckles, indicating that GFP:Rha1 may colocalize with most but not all of the VSR-positive compartments. Previously it has been shown that VSR also localizes to the TGN (Paris et al. 1997, Ahmed et al. 2000, Li et al. 2002). Next, we examined the degree of VSRAt-1 colocalization with AtPEP12p to determine what portion of the VSR-positive speckles corresponds to the PVC in Arabidopsis leaf cells. Protoplasts were transformed with AtPEP12p:HA and stained using anti-HA and anti-VSR antibodies. As shown in Fig. 3C (panels e–g), the majority of VSR-positive speckles overlapped the AtPEP12p:HA speckles, confirming that majority of VSR localizes to the PVC. When overlap of VSRAt-1 with AtPEP12p:HA was quantified, 85% (±10%, n = 500) of VSRAt-1-positive speckles colocalized with the PVC, indicating that 85% of VSRAt-1-positive speckles represent the PVC. These results confirm that GFP:Rha1 localizes mainly to the PVC. To rule out the possibility that Rha1 localizes to the TGN, we compared the staining patterns of GFP:Rha1 with that of HA-tagged AtTLG2a, a protein localized to the TGN (Bassham et al. 2000). Protoplasts were cotransformed with GFP:Rha1 and HA:TLG2a and localization of these two proteins was examined. GFP:Rha1 did not colocalize with HA:TLG2a (Fig. 3C, panels i–k), indicating that HA:Rha1 does not localize to the TGN. To further confirm the specific localization of Rha1 at the PVC, we compared the localization of Rha1 with that of other markers that characterize organelles such as the ER, mitochondria and the peroxisome. GFP:Rha1 was introduced into protoplasts together with BiP:RFP, a marker of the ER, F1-ATPase-γ:RFP, a marker of mitochondria, or RFP:SKL, a marker of the peroxisome (Jin et al. 2003) and the localizations of the different proteins were examined. As shown in Fig. 4, BiP:RFP (panels a–c) gave a network pattern as observed previously (Jin et al. 2001). Furthermore, F1-ATPase-γ:RFP (panels e–g) and RFP:SKL (panels i–k) gave punctate staining patterns as expected. None of these markers overlapped with GFP:Rha1, thus excluding the possibility that Rha1 localizes to any of these organelles. To further confirm the localization of Rha1, we investigated the localization of endogenous Rha1 using a polyclonal anti-Rha1 antibody. To address this question, we raised a rabbit polyclonal antibody against recombinant Rha1 expressed in Escherichia coli. First, we examined the specificity of the anti-Rha1 antibody. As shown in Fig. 5A (lane Anti-Rha1), anti-Rha1 antibody specifically detected a protein band at 28 kDa from total protein extracts obtained from leaf tissues whereas the control serum did not detect any protein species from the extracts (Fig. 5A, lane Control serum), indicating that the antibody may specifically detect Rha1 from plant extracts. Next we examined whether anti-Rha1 antibody recognizes Rha1 only and does not cross-react with other Rab proteins in Arabidopsis. Since the expression of Rab proteins has not been previously investigated in Arabidopsis leaf cells, protein extracts were prepared from protoplasts transformed with various GFP-tagged forms of Rab such as GFP:Rha1, GFP:Ara5, Ara6:GFP, GFP:Ara7, GFP:Rab7 and GFP:Rab8. We evaluated the expression of these proteins by Western blot analysis using an anti-GFP antibody. As shown in Fig. 5B, a protein band around 52 kDa was detected in each lane, indicating that these proteins are expressed in protoplasts. To examine the cross-reactivity of the anti-Rha1 antibody with these proteins, Western blot analysis was performed with these protein extracts using anti-Rha1 antibody. As shown in Fig. 5B (bottom panel), the anti-Rha1 antibody strongly detected a protein band at 52 kDa in the protein extracts containing GFP:Rha1. Also, GFP:Ara7 was weakly detected; the amino acid sequences of Ara7 and Rha1 are 92% homologous. These results clearly demonstrated that the anti-Rha1 antibody is highly specific to Rha1 among Rab proteins in Arabidopsis. We examined the localization of endogenous Rha1 by immunohistochemistry using the anti-Rha1 antibody. As shown in Fig. 6A, endogenous Rha1 gave a punctate staining pattern, as observed with transiently expressed GFP:Rha1 or HA:Rha1. In contrast, the control serum did not give any staining pattern. Next, we examined whether endogenous Rha1 colocalizes with transiently expressed GFP:Rha1 or HA:Rha1. Protoplasts transformed with GFP:Rha1 or HA:Rha1 were stained with the anti-Rha1 antibody alone or with anti-Rha1 and anti-HA antibodies, respectively. Endogenous Rha1 closely overlapped GFP:Rha1 and HA:Rha1 at punctate stains (Fig. 6B, panels a–g), indicating that endogenous Rha1 colocalizes with GFP- or HA-tagged Rha1 proteins at the same compartment. To confirm the localization of endogenous Rha1 to the PVC, we investigated the colocalization of endogenous Rha1 with AtPEP12p:HA. Protoplasts were transformed with AtPEP12p:HA and localization of AtPEP12p:HA and endogenous Rha1 was examined. As shown in Fig. 6B (panels i–k), both AtPEP12p:HA and endogenous Rha1 gave a punctate staining pattern. Furthermore, endogenous Rha1 closely overlapped AtPEP12p:HA at punctate stains, confirming that endogenous Rha1 localizes to the PVC as observed with GFP:Rha1 and HA:Rha1 expressed transiently in protoplasts. To further elucidate the behavior of Rha1, we examined the subcellular distribution pattern of endogenous and transiently expressed Rha1 by Western blot analysis. Protein extracts were obtained from untransformed protoplasts or protoplasts transformed with GFP:Rha1 and fractionated into soluble and membrane fractions by ultracentrifugation. The presence of endogenous Rha1 or transiently expressed GFP:Rha1 was detected in these fractions by Western blot analysis. As shown in Fig. 7A, the majority of endogenous Rha1 was detected in the pellet fraction, indicating that Rha1 is associated with cellular membranes. Also, the majority of the transiently expressed GFP:Rha1 was also detected in the membrane fraction. However, interestingly, more GFP:Rha1 than endogenous Rha1 was detected in the soluble fraction, which is likely due to overexpression of GFP:Rha1 in the cell. As a control, protein extracts prepared from protoplasts transformed with a GFP construct were fractionated and examined by Western blot analysis using anti-GFP antibody. As shown in Fig. 6A, GFP was detected mainly in the soluble fraction, indicating that the presence of GFP:Rha1 in the membrane fraction is due to Rha1. Also we detected endogenous Arabidopsis aleurain-like protein (AALP), a soluble vacuolar protein (Ahmed et al. 2000, Sohn et al. 2003), using anti-aleurain antibody raised against barley aleurain. Endogenous AALP (anti-aleurain) was detected in the soluble fraction but not in the membrane fraction. These results strongly suggest that endogenous Rha1 is associated with membranes. Furthermore, these results strongly suggest that transiently expressed GFP:Rha1 behaves similarly to endogenous Rha1. Next, to obtain independent evidence for the localization of Rha1 at the PVC, we examined the sedimentation pattern of Rha1 on a continuous sucrose gradient. First a microsomal membrane fraction of leaf cell extracts was prepared by ultracentrifugation and loaded onto a continuous sucrose gradient (15–50%). After centrifugation, fractions were analyzed by Western blot analysis using various antibodies, such as anti-BiP, anti-PEP12p, anti-γ-COP and anti-Rha1. Anti-BiP and anti-γ-COP antibodies were used to detect the ER and Golgi apparatus (Pimpl et al. 2000). As shown in Fig. 7B, anti-Rha1 and anti-PEP12p antibodies gave nearly identical distribution patterns with a major peak between 34% and 38% sucrose. However, the distribution pattern of Rha1 was different from those of BiP and γ-COP at the ER and the Golgi apparatus. These results further confirm that Rha1 localizes to the PVC. Next, we examined the targeting mechanism of Rha1 to the PVC. Rab proteins have multiple domains (Stenmark et al. 1994) such as GTP-binding and effector domains. Mutations at these domains are known to affect protein targeting (Soldati et al. 1993, Wilson and Maltese 1993, Stenmark et al. 1994, Li and Liang 2001). Mutations were introduced at the highly conserved GTP-binding motifs, namely the first (Rha1[S24N]) and second (Rha1[Q69L]) GTP-binding motifs. We fused these mutants with GFP and then examined their localization in transformed protoplasts. The GFP signals of GFP:Rha1[S24N] were diffuse as observed with GFP alone (Fig. 8A), indicating that this mutation inhibits the targeting of Rha1 to the PVC. In contrast, GFP:Rha1[Q69L] showed strong GFP signals at the tonoplast of the central vacuole and also at a few punctate stains (indicated by arrows in Fig. 8A, panel i), suggesting that the highly conserved GTP domains of Rha1 are critical for proper localization of Rha1 to the PVC. To further understand the targeting mechanism of Rha1 to the PVC, mutations were introduced at the effector domain (Rha1[T42A]) and the prenylation site (Rha1[C198S, C199S]). These mutants were again fused with GFP and their localization was examined in transformed protoplasts. The GFP signals of GFP:Rha1[T42A] and GFP:Rha1[C198S, C199S] were diffuse, as observed with GFP alone (Fig. 7A). Thus, the effector domain and prenylation site of Rha1 play critical roles in the proper localization of Rha1 to the PVC. To confirm the behavior of the Rha1 mutants, protein extracts were prepared from protoplasts transformed with the mutant and wild-type GFP:Rha1 constructs. The protein extracts were then fractionated into soluble and membrane fractions by ultracentrifugation and probed with a monoclonal anti-GFP antibody for the presence of Rha1. As shown in Fig. 8B, in contrast to GFP:Rha1, the majority of GFP:Rha1[S24N] was present in the soluble fraction, with a minor portion in the membrane fraction, confirming the image pattern observed under a fluorescent microscope. However, the distribution of GFP:Rha1[Q69L] was exactly opposite to that of GFP:Rha1[S24N]: the majority of the protein was present in the membrane fraction and only a minor portion was in the soluble fraction. When subcellular fractionation experiments were performed with Rha1[T42A] and Rha1[C198S, C199S], these mutant proteins were detected in the soluble fraction, but not in the membrane fraction, confirming the data obtained from image analysis. These results suggest that Rha1 targeting to the PVC is dependent on both the effector domain and the prenylation site. The prenyl group at the C-terminal cysteine residues anchors the Rab protein to the membrane (Khosravi-Far et al. 1991, Alexandrov et al. 1994).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) was grown on Murashige and Skoog plates in a growth chamber. Leaf tissues were harvested from the plants and immediately used for protoplast isolation. Ara5 (accession number P28188), Ara4 (accession number P28187), Rab7 (accession number O04157) and Rab8 (accession number AAB65088) were PCR amplified. The primer sets were as follows: 5′-AAGAAGAATGAATTTTAATCT-3′ and 5′-TCAAGTTGAGCAGCAGCC-3′ for Ara5, 5′-CCCGGGAAATGTCAGACGACGAG-’3 and 5′-ATGTTACCTCGAACAGCAAGA-3′ for Ara4, 5′-ATGTCGACGCGAAGACGAAC-3′ and 5′-TCAGCAAGCACAACCTCCTCTT-3′ for Rab7 and 5′-ATGGCGGTTGCGCCGGCAAGA-3′ and 5′-CTAAACGTAACTACAGCAAGC-3′ for Rab8. Point mutants of Rha1 were also generated by PCR. Rha1[Q69L] was generated by PCR using two oligonucleotide primers, ATATGGGATACAGCTGGTCTGGAACGATACCACAGTTTG and CAAACTGTGGTATCGTTCCAGACCAGCTGTATCCCATAT. The nucleotide sequences of all the PCR products were confirmed by nucleotide sequencing. TLG2a cDNA was PCR amplified from a cDNA library using gene-specific primers (GAATTCATGGCGACGAGGAATCGTACGTTGCTG, TCACAAGAATATTTCCTTGAGGATTAA). To prepare cell extracts from protoplasts, transformed protoplasts were lysed in buffer (40 mM HEPES–KOH pH 8.0, 0.25 M sucrose, 3 mM EDTA, 10 mM KCl, 1.0 mM dithiothreitol, 10 µg/ml leupeptin, 1 µg/ml pepstatin and 10 µg/ml aprotinin) by repeated freeze and thaw cycles and then centrifuged at 7,000×g at 4°C for 5 min in a microfuge to remove cell debris (Jin et al. 2001). For subcellular fractionation experiments, the total cell extracts were centrifuged at 14,000×g for 10 min and subsequently the resulting supernatant was fractionated into soluble and membrane fractions by ultracentrifugation at 100,000×g for 2 h (Park et al. 1997, Bassham et al. 2000). For fractionation of membrane proteins on a continuous sucrose gradient (15–50%), the microsomal membrane fraction was further fractionated on a 15–50% continuous sucrose gradient by ultracentrifugation at 4°C for 1 h. These fractions were then probed with anti-BiP, anti-AtPEP12p (Rose Biotechnology, Winchendon, U.S.A.), anti-γ-COP and anti-Rha1 antibodies as described previously (Jin et al. 2001). pRSET-Rha1, an E. coli expression vector for Rha1, was constructed by inserting the Rha1 cDNA into the multi-cloning site of pRSET-B in-frame with the His tag. A recombinant protein His-tagged Rha1 was expressed in E. coli and purified using an Ni+-NTA column according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Qiagen, Valencia, U.S.A.). Affinity-purified recombinant protein was then used to immunize two rabbits. Antibody was affinity purified using recombinant protein as described previously (Harlow and Lane 1988). The plasmids were introduced by PEG-mediated transformation (Jin et al. 2001) into Arabidopsis protoplasts prepared from leaf tissues. Expression of the fusion constructs was monitored at various time points after transformation and images were captured with a cooled CCD camera and a Zeiss (Jena, Germany) Axioplan fluorescence microscope (Jin et al. 2001). Also images were obtained using a confocal laser scanning microscope (Zeiss meta system, Jena, Germany). Protoplasts were analyzed immunohistochemically as described previously (Sohn et al. 2003). Briefly, transformed protoplasts were placed onto poly-l-lysine-coated slide glasses and fixed with 2% paraformaldehyde in a fixing buffer (10 mM HEPES pH 7.2, 154 mM NaCl, 125 mM CaCl2, 2.5 mM maltose, 5 mM KCl) for 1 h at room temperature. The fixed cells were incubated with rat monoclonal anti-HA (Roche, Basel, Switzerland), rabbit anti-Rha1 or rabbit anti-VSR antibodies at 4°C overnight and washed with TSW buffer three times. Subsequently, the cells were incubated with Cy3-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG (Sigma) or TRITC-conjugated anti-rat IgG (Zymed) as the secondary antibodies. The images were captured as described above.
