!~ABS~! In Arabidopsis thaliana brassinosteroid (BR), perception is mediated by two Leu-rich repeat receptor-like kinases, BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE1 (BRI1) and BRI1-ASSOCIATED RECEPTOR KINASE1 (BAK1) (Arabidopsis SOMATIC EMBRYOGENESIS RECEPTOR-like KINASE3 [AtSERK3]). Genetic, biochemical, and yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) interaction studies suggested that the BRI1-BAK1 receptor complex initiates BR signaling, but the role of the BAK1 receptor is still not clear. Using transient expression in protoplasts of BRI1 and AtSERK3 fused to cyan and yellow fluorescent green fluorescent protein variants allowed us to localize each receptor independently in vivo. We show that BRI1, but not AtSERK3, homodimerizes in the plasma membrane, whereas BRI1 and AtSERK3 preferentially heterodimerize in the endosomes. Coexpression of BRI1 and AtSERK3 results in a change of the steady state distribution of both receptors because of accelerated endocytosis. Endocytic vesicles contain either BRI1 or AtSERK3 alone or both. We propose that the AtSERK3 protein is involved in changing the equilibrium between plasma membrane–located BRI1 homodimers and endocytosed BRI1-AtSERK3 heterodimers.
!~RES~! To determine the subcellular localization of BRI1 and AtSERK3 proteins in plant cells, we performed in vivo targeting experiments in cowpea and Arabidopsis protoplasts derived from leaf tissue. BRI1 and AtSERK3 proteins were tagged at the C terminus with either CFP or YFP and then transiently expressed in protoplasts under control of the constitutive 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus. The localization of each fusion protein was examined using confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). To show the morphology of the protoplast and the localization of the fluorescent proteins for each confocal optical section of a cell, CFP or YFP fluorescence is presented in a separate channel (cyan and yellow, respectively), followed by the chlorophyll autofluorescence in the red channel and by an overlay image combining both. The transient protein expression system in protoplasts has been successfully used to study gene regulation, signal transduction (reviewed in CITATION), protein targeting, and trafficking in plant cells (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In spite of many advantages, protoplasts also have limitations. First, localization of the transiently expressed proteins may not always reflect that of the endogenous proteins in intact plant cells because of overexpression. Second, protoplasts are devoid of cell walls and plasmodesmata and lack normal cell–cell communication and polarity cues, so the transiently expressed proteins may behave differently from the endogenous proteins in intact plant cells. Thus, the results obtained using transient expression in protoplasts should be considered with those limitations in mind. In single transfections, BRI1-CFP and AtSERK3-CFP fusion proteins are localized to the plasma membrane as early as 3 h after transfection, and this pattern was unchanged up to 16 h (overnight) incubation of the protoplasts. In Figures 1A to 1D, representative images are shown after 8 h of incubation. Residual AtSERK3-CFP fluorescence was also seen in the cytoplasm, similar to what was observed for AtSERK1 (CITATION; indicated by an arrowhead in Figure 1C), the previously described close homolog of AtSERK3. When protoplasts were optically cross-sectioned close to the periphery of the cell, multiple fluorescently labeled vesicle-like compartments were observed (examples are shown in Figures 1E and 1F for BRI1-CFP and in Figures 1G and 1H for AtSERK3-YFP). Often those organelles appeared to be at a site near the plasma membrane (indicated by arrowheads in Figures 1E and 1G). The protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide (CHX) was added to protoplasts expressing either BRI1-CFP or AtSERK3-YFP 3 h after transfection, and the protoplasts were examined up to 5 h after the treatment (Figures 1I and 1J and Figures 1K and 1L, respectively). In CHX-treated protoplasts, no change in the distribution of either BRI1-CFP or AtSERK3-YFP fluorescence between the plasma membrane and the vesicle-like compartments was seen when compared with untreated protoplasts (data not shown) or to protoplasts expressing BRI1-YFP and AtSERK3-YFP overnight. In general, the expression was higher when the longer incubation time was used (cf. Figures 1I and 1K with Figures 1E and 1G). The constant level of membrane-localized receptors in the absence of protein synthesis suggests that neither undergoes rapid internalization when expressed alone. [[FIGURE]] When BRI1 and AtSERK3 were coexpressed for 3 h as CFP and YFP fusions, respectively, followed by 5 h of CHX treatment, there was almost compete depletion of both BRI1 and AtSERK3 fluorescent proteins from the plasma membrane (cf. Figures 1M to 1P with Figures 1Q to 1T). This suggested that the presence of AtSERK3 altered the membrane location of BRI1. This could be because of accelerated endocytosis and/or inefficient recycling back to the plasma membrane. An interesting observation in the BRI1/AtSERK3 coexpression experiments was the lack of complete colocalization between the two fluorescently tagged proteins in the endosomes (Figures 1U to 1W). Surprisingly, we distinguished three different types of vesicle-like compartments, compartments that contained BRI1 and AtSERK3 together (indicated by an arrowhead in Figure 1W) and compartments that contained either AtSERK3 (cyan arrowhead in Figure 1U) or BRI1 alone (yellow arrowhead in Figure 1V). The ratio between the numbers of each type of compartment differed among different protoplasts. Similar observations were made when Arabidopsis protoplasts were cotransfected with BRI1 and AtSERK3 fluorescent proteins (Figure 1Z). Because an endocytic compartment will contain more than a single molecule of the fluorescently labeled receptor, this excludes the possibility of a random event. Thus, we conclude that the endosomal-sorting mechanism in plant cells can distinguish among different plasma membrane receptors. To verify that the vesicular origin of the BRI1 and AtSERK3 fluorescent proteins is the plasma membrane and does not represent proteins in transit from the Golgi membranes, we used rat sialyltransferase fused to YFP (STtmd-YFP) as a Golgi marker for colocalization experiments with either BRI1-CFP (Figures 2A to 2D) or AtSERK3-CFP–tagged proteins (Figures 2I to 2L). It was previously shown that the STtmd-YFP localizes to the trans side of the Golgi compartments in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) cells (CITATION), cowpea protoplasts (CITATION), and in Arabidopsis (CITATION). No colocalization between STtmd-YFP and either BRI1-CFP (Figure 2D) or AtSERK3-CFP fluorescence (Figure 2L) was observed. [[FIGURE]] In Arabidopsis roots, Brefeldin A (BFA) inhibits post-Golgi vesicle trafficking by targeting large ARF-GEFs, resulting in rapid internalization of plasma membrane proteins in so-called BFA compartments (CITATION) containing fused endosomes (CITATION). BFA added to the cowpea protoplasts coexpressing STtmd-YFP and either BRI1-CFP or AtSERK3-CFP, destroyed the integrity of the Golgi vesicles and causing accumulation of the STtmd-YFP fluorescence on the Golgi membrane as early as 30 min after application (indicated by arrowheads in Figures 2F and 2N). Similar effects of BFA in cowpea protoplasts were previously observed using the Golgi marker ERD2-YFP (CITATION). No change in the morphology and localization of BRI1 and AtSERK3 fluorescently labeled vesicles was observed after BFA application (cf. Figures 2E and 2M with Figures 2A and 2I). This suggested that in cowpea protoplasts derived from a mesophyll tissue, the internalization and recycling of BRI1 and AtSERK3 proteins are BFA insensitive. To confirm the endosomal localization of the BRI1 and AtSERK3 proteins, we examined the localization of BRI1-YFP and AtSERK3-YFP fusion proteins simultaneously with the lipophilic dye FM4-64 (Figure 3). FM4-64 is routinely used to follow the endocytic pathway in yeast and in plant cells (CITATION; CITATION). As indicated by arrowheads in Figures 3C and 3F, most of the BRI1- and AtSERK3-containing vesicles are stained with FM4-64, suggesting that BRI1 and AtSERK3 proteins are indeed recycled and internalized via an endocytic mechanism. [[FIGURE]] To determine where BRI1 and AtSERK3 receptor homodimerization or heterodimerization occurs in cells, we applied FLIM. This technique captures FRET occurring between the CFP donor and the YFP acceptor molecules when both are in close proximity of ∼5 nm. This distance is regarded to be indicative of direct protein–protein interaction (CITATION; CITATION). Using a combination of a two-photon laser-scanning microscope and a time-correlated single photon counting acquisition card, a fluorescence intensity image of the tagged receptors is obtained. Subsequently, the fluorescence lifetime (τ) of the CFP donor molecule is calculated for every pixel in the image according to a double exponential decay model. Upon FRET, the τ of the CFP donor molecules will decrease and is visualized as a false color-coded image superimposed over the visible light image. The mean fluorescence lifetime ranges from dark blue (τ = 2.5 ns; no interaction) to dark orange or red (τ = 1.9 ns; interaction) (Figure 4). FLIM measurements performed with all receptor combinations used in this analysis are summarized in Table 1. [[FIGURE]] Fluorescence Lifetime Analysis and FRET Characterization in Cowpea Protoplasts We first investigated whether AtSERK3 and BRI1 were able fto form homodimers (Figures 4A and 4B and Figures 4C and 4D, respectively). In protoplasts expressing AtSERK3-CFP/AtSERK3-YFP constructs, the lifetime of AtSERK3-CFP at the plasma membrane remained 2.49 ns (displayed as a homogeneous dark blue membrane in Figure 4B and corresponding τ values in Table 1). Occasionally, single small areas showing lifetime reduction in the plasma membrane were found in a few of the AtSERK3-CFP/AtSERK3-YFP–expressing protoplasts (Table 1). By contrast, in BRI1-CFP/BRI1-YFP–expressing protoplasts, a reduction in the fluorescence lifetime of the donor CFP molecules (τ = 2.5 to 1.9 ns) was detected, suggesting that BRI1 was able to form homodimers in the plasma membrane (FRET efficiency 23%). The reduction in the fluorescence lifetime of BRI1-CFP in the presence of BRI1-YFP was comparable to the reduction of the fluorescence lifetime of AtSERK1-CFP in the presence of AtSERK1-YFP (Table 1), which was previously shown to form homodimers in the plasma membrane (CITATION; M.A. Hink, K. Shah, E. Russinova, S.C. de Vries, and A.J.W.G. Visser, unpublished results). The areas where BRI1/BRI1 homodimers in the plasma membrane occur do not appear to be organized but are fairly frequent (note the dark orange areas indicated by arrowheads in Figure 4D). We conclude that the BRI1 receptor exists as a homodimer in the plasma membrane of living plant cells. We cannot exclude the possibility that in some cases the lack of FRET is because of a competitive interaction between endogenous and transiently expressed BR receptors. This depends on the abundance of the endogenous receptors in the respective tissues. Although the BRI1 receptor is expressed relatively high in mesophyll cells (CITATION), FRET was always observed between transiently coexpressed BRI1-CFP and BRI1-YFP receptors. The abundance of AtSERK3 transcripts in mesophyll cells was low as predicted by RT-PCR (C. Albrecht and S.C. de Vries, unpublished results), suggesting that the lack of interaction between transiently coexpressed AtSERK3-CFP and AtSERK3-YFP receptors is unlikely to be caused by interaction with its native counterpart and most likely reflects the monomeric state of AtSERK3. To determine whether BRI1/AtSERK3 heterodimerization occurred in vivo, we transfected protoplasts with either BRI1-CFP and AtSERK3-YFP or AtSERK3-CFP and BRI1-YFP constructs. Because the plasma membrane of the cells cotransfected with BRI1 and AtSERK3 is rapidly depleted of the receptors, we first analyzed those parts where the fluorescent proteins were still present (Figures 4E and 4F). In such areas, the fluorescence intensity image of a protoplast cotransfected with, for example, AtSERK3-CFP and BRI1-YFP showed a uniform distribution of the CFP fluorescence (the boxed plasma membrane area in Figure 4E). In most parts of the plasma membrane, no (τ = 2.5 ns) or very little reduction in the fluorescence lifetime (τ = 2.47 ns) was observed (visualized by the dark blue color in Figure 4F). Those values corresponded to the values of the fluorescence lifetimes determined for protoplasts transfected with either BRI1-CFP (τ = 2.47 ns) or AtSERK3-CFP (τ = 2.53 ns) constructs alone (Table 1) and indicated no interaction occurring between AtSERK3 and BRI1 in those areas. In addition, multiple small patches that showed a significant reduction in τ from 2.5 to 2.0 ns (Table 1) of the donor (BRI1-CFP) molecules (visualized as green to orange patches, and indicated by arrowheads, in Figure 4F) were observed. The FRET efficiency in these areas was ∼20% (Table 1). The size and the frequency of these discrete areas varied among different protoplasts. We next determined the lifetime of the AtSERK3-CFP donor molecules in the presence of BRI1-YFP in the endocytic compartments at a site near the plasma membrane (Figures 4G and 4H) or located in the cytoplasm (Figures 4I and 4J). Twin-like organelles next to the plasma membrane showed a reduction in τ of the AtSERK3-CFP from 2.5 to 2.0 ns (arrowheads in Figure 4H; FRET efficiency 20%). Comparable reductions in the fluorescence lifetime of the AtSERK3-CFP were observed in most of the BRI1 and AtSERK3 containing endocytic compartments located in the cytoplasm (see Figure 4J where spotted areas with different fluorescence lifetimes are visualized in green and orange and indicated by arrowheads). We conclude that BRI1-AtSERK3 heterodimerization is nonuniformly distributed in the plasma membrane and appears to coincide with developing endocytic compartments that contain both receptors. To determine if brassinolide (BL) treatment of the cowpea protoplasts coexpressing BRI1 and AtSERK3 fluorescently tagged proteins would alter the amount or the size of the membrane areas in which FRET occurred, we performed FLIM experiments on protoplasts coexpressing BRI1 and AtSERK3 in the presence of 1 μM BL. No changes in the τ values of the CFP donor molecules (Table 1) or in the number and distribution of the membrane areas showing FRET were observed (data not shown). Because BL has been shown to specifically bind to BRI1 and increase BRI1 phosphorylation (CITATION), one possibility could be that BRI1 and AtSERK3 show ligand-independent endocytosis. Alternatively, the protoplasts could contain sufficient endogenous amounts of BL to activate the introduced fluorescent receptors. To determine whether our FLIM data represent elements of an activated BR signaling pathway, we made use of the BES1 protein, one of the two proposed nuclear targets of BR signaling. Unphosphorylated BES1 protein was reported to accumulate in the nucleus in response to BL and to promote cell elongation in dark-grown Arabidopsis hypocotyls (CITATION). We transiently expressed the BES1-GFP fusion protein in protoplasts and examined the cells before and after BL application. The GFP fusion with the gain-of-function mutant bes1-D, which was previously shown to accumulate in the nucleus without BL application (CITATION), was used as a positive control. In cowpea protoplasts, both the BES1-GFP and the mutant bes1-GFP fusions were observed in the nucleus as early as 3 h after transfection (arrowheads in Figures 5A and 5B). BES1-GFP and bes1-GFP fluorescent proteins were also seen in the cytoplasm and in the plasma membrane (Figures 5A and 5B). Overnight expression of either BES1-GFP or mutant bes1-GFP proteins induced cell elongation and eventually the rupture of the protoplasts, indicating the presence of functional BES1 proteins in the protoplast system (data not shown). Application of BL had no effect on the localization of either BES1 or bes1-D fluorescent proteins (data not shown). We used Arabidopsis protoplasts isolated from mutants defective in the biosynthesis of BRs, such as cbb1, det2-1, and dwf4 to transiently express BES1-GFP protein (Figures 5C to 5E, respectively). In all mutant backgrounds, BES1 protein was localized in the nucleus without BL treatment. We conclude that contrary to the previous observation made by CITATION, in mesophyll cells BES1 nuclear localization is not dependent on the BR application. Similar observations were reported previously when the nuclear localization of BES1 was examined in light-grown root tips (CITATION). We next checked the phosphorylation state of BES1 protein without and with BL treatment in Arabidopsis protoplasts. In the absence of ligand, BES1 was found in phosphorylated form after BL treatment was shifted into a dephosphorylated form of faster electrophoretic mobility. It was proposed that the dephosphorylated form of BES1 modulates the transcription of BL-regulated genes (CITATION). As shown in Figure 5F, BES1-GFP was detected as a fast and a slow migrating band after SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting with anti-BES1 antibody or anti-GFP antibody (data not shown) representing phosphorylated and unphosphorylated forms (CITATION). The presence of the two forms in our system was not dependent on BL application (Figure 5F, cf. lane 1 with lane 2). Based on the presence of unphosphorylated BES1 protein in the nucleus, we conclude that in protoplasts the BR signaling is active. Therefore, our observations concerning BRI1/AtSERK3 endocytosis appear to represent active BR signaling. [[FIGURE]] RNA gel blot experiments (CITATION) and real-time quantitative RT-PCR (CITATION) have shown that in Arabidopsis the BRI1 gene is expressed ubiquitously and displays very little organ specificity. BRI1-GFP fluorescence was observed in cells of the hypocotyls, roots, and cotyledons of seedlings stably expressing BRI1-GFP fusion protein from the BRI1 promoter (CITATION). Although not organ specific, BRI1-GFP expression was temporally regulated, and adult tissues always displayed low levels of BRI1-GFP fluorescence. In previous studies, BRI1-GFP and BAK1 (AtSERK3)-GFP fluorescence was reported to be exclusively plasma membrane localized (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Based on our observation that in protoplasts coexpression of BRI1 and AtSERK3 resulted in accelerated endocytosis of the complex, we further explored the possibility that a similar phenomenon could be observed in planta. We therefore introduced the BRI1-GFP fusion under the control of the BRI1 endogenous promoter in wild-type Arabidopsis plants. The same construct was shown to rescue the bri1-104 mutation (CITATION). Two independent lines containing a single copy of the BRI1-GFP construct were selected and analyzed further. Using CLSM, we looked at whether BRI1-GFP was internalized in roots of 7-d-old light-grown seedlings. As previously described, BRI1-GFP fluorescence was detected on the plasma membrane in roots but surprisingly also in endocytic compartments (Figure 6B). This occurred first at the apical part of the root meristem immediately adjacent to the quiescent center and to a lesser extent in the lateral and the columella root cap cells (Figure 6A) and in the elongation zone. In the mature parts of the root, BRI1-GFP fluorescence was reduced but also seen in the plasma membrane and in the endosomes (data not shown). This observation supports the hypothesis that the increased rate of BRI1 endocytosis is correlated with the places where active BR signaling is occurring in roots. [[FIGURE]] FM4-64 staining was used to colabel the vesicles expressing BRI1-GFP. As shown in Figures 6F to 6H, FM4-64 colocalizes with most of the BRI1-GFP containing vesicles. We next analyzed the effect of BFA on BRI1-GFP endocytosis in Arabidopsis roots. BFA application in the presence of CHX caused reversible aggregation of the BRI1-GFP fluorescence in compartments similar in morphology and localization to the BFA-induced compartments of the pin-formed (PIN) proteins (CITATION, CITATION) (Figures 6D and 6E). These results suggest that endosome-mediated BRI1 internalization as observed in cowpea protoplasts also occurs in Arabidopsis root cells. To show that the observed difference in BFA sensitivity between cowpea mesophyll cells and Arabidopsis root cells is not an artifact of the cowpea protoplasts, we generated protoplasts from 5- to 7-d-old BRI1-GFP transgenic seedlings (Figures 6I and 6J). BFA application of the protoplasts caused formation of BFA bodies only in the chlorophyll-free cells derived from either root or hypocotyl parts of the plant (arrowhead in Figure 6K). We never observed formation of BFA compartments in the chlorophyll-containing cells under the same conditions (Figure 6K), although some peripheral aggregation of BRI1 fluorescent protein was occasionally observed. This observation also suggests there are differences in the response of different plant cells to application of BFA. To determine whether the rate of BRI1 endocytosis in Arabidopsis root cells is dependent on or reduced in the absence of the AtSERK3 protein, the BRI1-GFP transgenic line was crossed to a serk3/bak1 null mutant. No change in the rate of BRI1-GFP endocytosis in the serk3/bak1 background compared with the wild type was observed (cf. Figure 6B with 6C). We conclude that the observed BFA-sensitive trafficking of BRI1 in Arabidopsis roots reflects general recycling as was also observed for the PIN proteins.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col) was used as the wild type. Seeds were germinated either on half-strength MS medium (Duchefa, Haarlem, The Netherlands) plus 1% sucrose or directly in soil. Plants were grown under fluorescent light (16-h-light/8-h-dark cycles). Arabidopsis BRI1-GFP–expressing plants were generated by introducing the ProBRI1-BRI1-GFP construct (CITATION) using the floral dip method (CITATION). Transgenic seedlings were selected on half-strength MS medium containing 50 mg/L kanamycin. Seven-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings from two independent homozygous ProBRI1-BRI1-GFP lines (T3 generation) were used to determine the BRI1-GFP localization in roots using CLSM. A ProBRI1-BRI1-GFP transgenic line was crossed with a bak1/serk3 null mutant (SALK_034523.56.00.x) generated by the SALK Institute (http://signal.salk.edu). Seeds from cbb1, det2-1, and dwf4 Arabidopsis mutants were obtained from the the Arabidopsis Stock Center. The full-length cDNA of BRI1 was PCR amplified from an EST (CITATION) obtained from Kazusa DNA Research Institute (Kisarazu City, Japan) with primers BRI1-F, 5′-CATGCCATGGATGAAGACTTTTTCAAGC-3′, and BRI1-R, 5′-CATGCCATGGCTAATTTTCCTTCAGGAA-3′. The BRI1 cDNA was then inserted in the NcoI site upstream of the CFP/YFP tags of the pMON999 (Monsanto, St. Louis, MO) vectors to generate BRI1-CFP and BRI1-YFP fusions, respectively. The AtSERK3 cDNA was PCR amplified with primers S3-F, 5′-CATGCCATGGAACGAAGATTAATGATC-3′, and S3-R, 5′-CATGCCATGGCTCTTGGACCCGAGGG-3′, and subcloned in the NcoI site of the vectors pMON999-CFP/YFP. All constructs were verified by sequencing. The binary constructs Pro35S-BES1-GFP and Pro35S-bes1-GFP used for transient assays in protoplasts were the same as described by CITATION. The full-length AtSERK1-CFP and YFP fusions were described before (CITATION). Cowpea and Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts were prepared and transfected as described previously by CITATION, CITATION) (http://genetics.mgh.harvard.edu/sheenweb), and CITATION. After transfection, the protoplasts were incubated in protoplast medium either overnight or for 3 h followed by addition of CHX (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) in concentration 50 μM from 50 mM stock. The protoplasts were used for observations until 5 h after adding the CHX. BFA (Sigma) was added to the protoplasts or applied to BRI1-GFP–expressing Arabidopsis seedlings in concentration 20 μg/mL from 5 mg/mL in DMSO. The protoplasts or the Arabidopsis roots were observed with CLSM in intervals of 30 min after the BFA application. The BFA wash-off experiments were performed as described by CITATION, and 24-epibrassinolide (Sigma) was applied to the protoplasts in concentration 1 μM from 0.5 mM stock in 80% ethanol. The protoplasts were taken for observation or FRET measurements after overnight or 1 to 2 h incubation with the 24-epibrassinolide. FM4-64 staining of the protoplasts and the Arabidopsis roots was performed exactly as described by CITATION. The protoplasts were washed from the dye and incubated in protoplast medium for 0.5, 1, 2, and 3 h. Arabidopsis protoplasts transiently expressing BES1-GFP protein for 3 to 4 h were used for immunoblotting analysis as previously described by CITATION using anti-BES1 antibody. The CFP and YFP fluorescence and the FM4-64 in protoplasts and in Arabidopsis seedlings were analyzed with the Confocal Laser Scanning Microscope 510 (Carl Zeiss, Jena, Germany) as described before by CITATION. In addition, the GFP was excited by the 488-nm laser line in combination with the main dichroic 488, and GFP fluorescence was detected by a band-pass 505- to 550-nm filter. A 40× oil immersion objective (numerical aperture 1.3) was used for scanning. The pinhole setting was 60 μm, which yielded a theoretical thickness (full width at half-maximum) of 1 μm. Images and data captures were analyzed with Zeiss LSM510 software (version 3.2). FLIM was performed using a Bio-Rad Radiance 2100 MP system (Hercules, CA) in combination with a Nikon TE 300 inverted microscope (Tokyo, Japan). Two-photon excitation pulses were generated by a Ti:Sapphire laser (Coherent Mira; Santa Clara, CA) that was pumped by a 5-W Coherent Verdi laser. Pulse trains of 76 MHz (150 fs pulse duration, 860 nm center wavelength) were produced. The excitation light was directly coupled into the microscope and focused into the sample using a CFI Plan Apochromat 60× water immersion objective lens (numerical aperture 1.2). Fluorescent light was detected using the nondescanned single photon counting detection, which is the most sensitive solution for two-photon imaging. For the FLIM experiment, the Hamamatsu R3809U MCP PMT (Hamamatsu City, Japan) was used, which has a typical time resolution ∼50 ps. CFP emission was selected using a 480DF30 band-pass filter. Images with a frame size of 64 × 64 pixels were acquired, and the average count rate was 2 × 104 photons/s for an acquisition time of 90 s (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). From the intensity images obtained, complete fluorescence lifetime decays were calculated per pixel and fitted using a double exponential decay model. The fluorescence lifetime of one component was fixed to the value found for AtSERK1-CFP (2.5 ns) (Table 1). The FRET efficiency (E) was determined by E = 1−τDA/τD, where τD is the fluorescence lifetime of the donor in the absence of acceptor and τDA that of the donor in the presence of acceptor at a distance (R). The distance between the donor and the acceptor was determined from the relation τDA = τD/(1 + (R0/R)6, where R0 is the Förster radius, the distance between the donor and acceptor at which 50% energy transfer takes place (CITATION).
