!~ABS~! The nuclear envelope (NE) acts as a selective barrier to macromolecule trafficking between the nucleus and the cytoplasm and undergoes a complex reorganization during mitosis. Different eukaryotic kingdoms show specializations in NE function and composition. In contrast with vertebrates, the protein composition of the NE and the function of NE proteins are barely understood in plants. MFP1 attachment factor 1 (MAF1) is a plant-specific NE-associated protein first identified in tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum). Here, we demonstrate that two Arabidopsis thaliana MAF1 homologs, WPP1 and WPP2, are associated with the NE specifically in undifferentiated cells of the root tip. Reentry into cell cycle after callus induction from differentiated root segments reprograms their NE association. Based on green fluorescent protein fusions and immunogold labeling data, the proteins are associated with the outer NE and the nuclear pores in interphase cells and with the immature cell plate during cytokinesis. RNA interference–based suppression of the Arabidopsis WPP family causes shorter primary roots, a reduced number of lateral roots, and reduced mitotic activity of the root meristem. Together, these data demonstrate the existence of regulated NE targeting in plants and identify a class of plant-specific NE proteins involved in mitotic activity.
!~RES~! Plant RanGAP has been shown to contain an N-terminal NE targeting domain that appears to be unique to plants and is not shared with yeast or mammalian RanGAP (CITATION; CITATION). This domain, called the WPP domain, is similar to the NE-associated protein MAF1 from tomato (CITATION). We used the tomato MAF1 sequence to identify proteins encoded in the Arabidopsis genome similar to the WPP domain. In addition to the two members of the RanGAP family, RanGAP1 and RanGAP2, there are three open reading frames encoding small WPP domain–containing proteins similar to MAF1 in Arabidopsis, termed WPP domain proteins 1, 2, and 3 (WPP1, WPP2, and WPP3). Figure 1A shows the alignment of MAF1, WPP1, WPP2, and WPP3 and the N-terminal domains of RanGAP1 and RanGAP2. Among the Arabidopsis proteins, MAF1 is most closely related to WPP1 and WPP2 (45.4 and 46.7% amino acid identity, respectively, compared with 28.9% identity with WPP3, 27.5% with RanGAP1, and 28.3% with RanGAP2). WPP1 and WPP2 are more closely related to each other (56.1% amino acid identity) than to WPP3 (34.8 and 43.9% amino acid identity, respectively), and all three family members are more closely related to each other than they are to the RanGAP WPP domains. [[FIGURE]] A polyclonal rabbit antiserum was raised against recombinant WPP1. The antiserum OSU132 recognized recombinant WPP1, WPP2, WPP3, and RanGAP1 with decreasing affinity (data not shown). The top panel in Figure 1B shows an immunoblot analysis performed on total protein extracts from different Arabidopsis organs with the OSU132 antibody. A single band of ∼25 kD was detected in flowers, leaves, roots, and stems. Although the predicted size of WPP proteins is between 17 and 19 kD, all three recombinant proteins also have an apparent molecular weight in SDS-PAGE of 25 to 30 kD (data not shown). A similar observation is obtained with tomato MAF1 (CITATION). In addition, a band was detected at 59 kD, which is the predicted size of RanGAP1 (data not shown). To investigate the expression pattern of each gene separately, RT-PCR with gene-specific primers was performed. Figure 1C shows that WPP1 and WPP3 expression was detected in leaves, roots, and stems but not flowers, whereas WPP2 expression was detected in all four organs. Endogenous tomato MAF1 and MAF1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) are localized at the NE of suspension-cultured cells (CITATION). The subcellular localization of the Arabidopsis WPP family was investigated by expressing WPP1, WPP2, and WPP3 as GFP fusion proteins under the control of the 35S promoter in transiently transformed Arabidopsis protoplasts (Figure 2A). WPP1-GFP and WPP2-GFP accumulated at the NE and showed an additional diffuse staining in the cytoplasm and nucleus, similar to the localization pattern of MAF1 (CITATION; CITATION). By contrast, WPP3-GFP is present in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm but does not accumulate at the NE, resembling the distribution of free GFP. Inspection of the sequence alignment (Figure 1A) revealed that WPP3 is missing several amino acid residues conserved among the other WPP domain proteins (Figure 1A; data not shown). Therefore, a possible reason for its different behavior is that some of these conserved residues are necessary for NE targeting. [[FIGURE]] Figure 2B shows the secondary structure prediction of WPP1 using methods described by CITATION and CITATION. The underlined WPP motif is conserved in all known higher and lower plant WPP domain proteins (data not shown) and was shown to be crucial for RanGAP1 targeting to the NE (CITATION). To determine whether the same motif is important for WPP1 NE localization, WPP was mutated to AAP. This mutation disrupts the NE targeting of WPP1 as shown in Figure 2C. To define the minimal length of the WPP domain, we took advantage of the extension of the most conserved domain in an alignment of all known WPP domain–containing proteins (data not shown), which coincides with the domain predicted to consist of a β strand and three α helices in Figure 2B. Two deletion constructs, indicated by the arrows in Figure 2B, were expressed as GFP fusions and analyzed for accumulation at the NE level. Figure 2C shows that residues 28 to 131 are sufficient for NE targeting, whereas residues 39 to 131 are not. Together, these data suggest that the central, most conserved domain of WPP1 is sufficient for NE targeting and that the WP motif is required. To investigate the localization pattern of WPP1-GFP, WPP2-GFP, and WPP3-GFP in different cell types, Arabidopsis transgenic lines expressing the fusion proteins under the control of the 35S promoter were created. Seven-day-old light-grown seedlings were imaged for GFP localization by confocal microscopy. Figure 3A shows the definition of zones of the primary root used in Figure 3C and the text. Root zone A includes the division and elongation zone. Root zone B includes the maturation zone, defined by the appearance of root hairs and indicative of differentiated cells. Root zone A spans ∼1 mm from the tip of a primary root in Arabidopsis seedlings. Figure 3B shows an overview of root zone A cells of a WPP2-GFP transgenic line, indicating the accumulation of the fusion protein at the NE in the small, undifferentiated cells in this zone. Figure 3C shows the localization pattern of WPP1-GFP, WPP2-GFP, WPP3-GFP, and free GFP in cells of root zone A, root zone B, hypocotyl cells, and leaf epidermis cells. As seen in Arabidopsis protoplasts (Figure 2A), the distribution of WPP3-GFP is indistinguishable from free GFP in all cell types imaged, indicating that this protein does not have a functional NE-targeting domain. WPP1-GFP and WPP2-GFP are targeted to the NE in root zone A cells. In contrast with this specific localization pattern, the distribution of GFP fluorescence in these lines resembled that of free GFP in the other three cell types. Root zone A is composed of cells that have recently divided or are primed for cell division. All other cell types shown are differentiated and have exited the cell cycle. This indicates that NE targeting of WPP1 and WPP2 is developmentally regulated and likely corresponds to the undifferentiated, cycling status of the cells. [[FIGURE]] As evident from Figures 3B and 3C, a less intense labeling of the cell cortex and of cytoplasmic speckles was also observed. Whereas NE association was consistently observed, labeling of the cell cortex and the speckles was only found in some cells (cf. e.g., Figures 3B to 3D and 5A). There was no difference between WPP1 and WPP2 with respect to this pattern. Localization in cytoplasmic speckles had also been observed for MAF1 (CITATION). To investigate their identity, we performed a dual labeling experiment with transiently transformed MAF1-GFP and BIODIPY TR C5-ceramide (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) to label the Golgi complex and/or its derivatives in BY-2 cells. We found colocalization of some, but not all, GFP-labeled speckles with the Golgi marker, indicating that some of the speckles are related to elements in the Golgi pathway (data not shown). Secondary meristems are responsible for the emergence of lateral roots from root zone B. Figure 3D shows a section of a lateral root emerged from the main root. Cells at the tip of the lateral root (the secondary meristem) show WPP1-GFP at the NE, indistinguishable from the pattern at the primary meristem (cell 1 in Figure 3D). By contrast, differentiated cells in zone B of the primary root as well as older cells of the lateral root (cells 3 and 2, respectively) show diffuse GFP fluorescence in the nucleus and cytoplasm. To verify that the different localization patterns of WPP1-GFP and WPP2-GFP are not simply because of an increasing accumulation of the fusion protein, which would eventually obscure the signal at the nuclear rim, we compared the GFP-fusion protein accumulation in zone A and zone B by immunoblot analysis. Figure 4 shows that equivalent amounts of GFP-fusion protein, per total cellular protein, are present in both zones. [[FIGURE]] Differentiated plant cells can be induced to dedifferentiate and reenter the cell cycle by hormone treatments. Root explants from zone B of 14-d-old WPP1-GFP, WPP2-GFP, and free GFP expressing plants were placed on callus-induction medium. Cells in developing calli were imaged 11, 15, and 19 d after transfer to callus-induction medium (Figure 5A). At all three stages, WPP1-GFP and WPP2-GFP associated with the NE in callus cells, again correlating with the dividing, dedifferentiated state of the cells. No change occurred in the localization pattern of free GFP (Figure 5A, right column). Figure 5B shows cells counterstained with propidium iodide to confirm the location of the nuclei. [[FIGURE]] The previously described localization of tomato MAF1 in tobacco BY-2 cells was only investigated at the light microscopy level (CITATION). Therefore, it was not known if MAF1 is associated with the inner or outer surface of the NE, or both. Here, we have investigated by transmission electron microscopy immunolocalizations the precise subcellular localization of WPP1. Antisera against GFP were used to localize WPP1-GFP in 15-d-old callus tissue induced from transgenic WPP1-GFP Arabidopsis roots (Figure 5). Figures 6A and 6B (expanded rectangle from A) show an example of an immunogold labeled section with the nucleus containing the nucleolus and the NE. In WPP1-GFP nuclei, clusters of two or more gold particles were found primarily at the nuclear rim and predominantly associated with the cytoplasmic side of the NE in the vicinity of nuclear pores. The bar graph in Figure 6C quantifies the distribution of gold particles at the NE level, which was calculated by counting gold particles from nuclei of three independent experiments. Few lone gold particles or doublets were found at the level of the nuclear rim in control GFP-expressing callus cells, but they were distributed equally at both sides of the NE (data not shown), and single gold particles and doublets were also found in the cytoplasm of both WPP1 and GFP expressing cells. Samples treated with preimmune rabbit serum did not show any labeling (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] A MAF1-GFP transgenic tobacco BY-2 cell line was created to visualize MAF1 localization during cell division. This transgenic line also contained a microtubule binding domain (MBD)-DsRed marker to visualize microtubules during cell division. Figure 7 shows images collected at different time points during cell division in this cell line (for a time-lapse movie, see supplemental data online). The MAF1-GFP marker accumulates at the NE during preprophase (time = 0) and also shows a faint but consistent localization at the preprophase band site. Upon NE breakdown and the onset of metaphase, MAF1-GFP intrudes into the spindle apparatus and the surrounding cytoplasm (time = 68). Later during anaphase, this marker shows preferential localization to the midzone (time = 75) and is incorporated to those regions of the nascent cell plate where vesicle activity (i.e., vesicle fusion and maturation) is highest (time = 82). This accumulation is transient and is not seen in more developed areas of the cell plate (time = 145). MAF1-GFP repartitions to the reforming NEs during telophase (time = 82), where it persists at the end of cytokinesis (time = 145). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the loss-of-function phenotype of WPP family members, RNAi-expressing transgenic Arabidopsis plants were created (see Methods). Several lines were recovered that showed no detectable protein accumulation (Figure 8A). Separate lines were constructed with WPP1-RNAi, WPP2-RNAi, and WPP3-RNAi constructs. However, subsequent analysis of the lines by gene-specific RT-PCR showed that all three constructs were capable of silencing the expression of all three genes (Figure 8B). [[FIGURE]] Plants grown on vertical MS agar plates developed a significantly shorter primary root compared with plants transformed with the empty vector. Figure 8C shows the average length of primary roots from 7-d-old light-grown seedlings. Figure 8F shows a typical seedling from line 3, compared with the vector control. No other features of the plant, such as hypocotyl length, shoot size, leaf number, leaf size, or flowering time, were significantly affected in the RNAi lines. To test whether the short root phenotype was caused by reduced cell elongation, length and width of root cells were measured. No noticeable cell size differences were detected between the vector control and RNAi lines in root zones A and B (Figure 8D). Figure 8E shows that the number of lateral roots was also reduced in 10-d-old light-grown seedlings. This is evident in Figure 8G, which shows the shortest vector-control root placed next to the longest root from RNAi line 1. It is apparent that the RNAi line 1 has fewer lateral roots compared with the vector-control root of a comparable developmental stage. Similarly, shorter roots and fewer lateral roots were also observed in WPP2 antisense lines (data not shown). To examine mitotic activity in RNAi lines, we transformed transgenic Arabidopsis plants containing a PCYCB1;1:β-glucuronidase (GUS) fusion gene with the WPP2 RNAi construct. Because of a mitotic degradation signal in the protein, the reporter gene activity is seen only in actively dividing cells (CITATION). The number of cells undergoing mitosis, as visualized by the GUS staining, is reduced from 20.8 ± 5.2 in wild-type roots to 8 ± 3.0 in RNAi line 1 and 4.4 ± 2.7 in RNAi line 2 (Figure 9B). Figure 9A shows representative images of a wild-type root tip next to a root tip of RNAi line 1. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! WPP1 (At5g43070), WPP2 (At1g47200), and WPP3 (At5g27940) were identified by sequence similarity searches using BLAST (CITATION) performed with the previously described tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) MAF1 (CITATION). MEGALIGN protein alignment software (DNASTAR, Madison, WI) was used for multiple sequence alignments using the Clustal algorithm. The secondary structure was predicted using the PSIPRED protein structure prediction server (CITATION; CITATION). WPP1, WPP2, and WPP3 are intronless genes and could therefore be PCR amplified from genomic DNA isolated from Arabidopsis thaliana leaves. The WPP1 PCR product was isolated using the primers 5′-TCCATGGCCGAAACCGAA-3′ and 5′-CTAAGTTCACTTCGAACTGCTC-3′. The primers 5′-TTGAATTCATGGCAGAAACCGCCGAGACA-3′ and 5′-TTGAATTCTCAAGCCTCACTCTTCTC-3′ were used for WPP2, and primers 5′-TTGAATTCATGGCAGAAACCGCC-3′ and 5′-TTGAATTCCTAAATCAGCAACTGCAT-3′ were used for WPP3 gene amplification. The WPP1 PCR product was cloned into the TOPO-TA vector using the TOPO-TA cloning kit from Invitrogen (Carlsbad, CA) and subsequently subcloned into the expression vector pRSET B using the NcoI and EcoRI restriction sites. The PCR products of WPP2 and WPP3 were directly cloned into pRSET B using the internal EcoRI sites of the PCR primers. GFP fusions for transient expression were created by cloning PCR-amplified, TOPO-cloned, and NcoI-digested fragments of the three genes into the NcoI site of pRTL2-mGFPS65T (CITATION). Primers were designed to eliminate stop codons and fuse the coding sequences to the 5′ end of the GFP gene. For WPP1, the same 5′ primer as above was used with the 3′ primer 5′-CCATGGAAGCTTCACTTGAATC-3′. For WPP2, the 5′ primer 5′-GCCATGGCAGAAACCGC-3′ and 3′ primer 5′-GCCATGGAAGCCTCACTCTTC-3′ were used. WPP3 was amplified using the same 5′ primer as above with the 3′ primer 5′-GCCATGGAAATCAGCAACTGC-3′. GFP fusions for Arabidopsis transformation were created by subcloning the WPP1, WPP2, and WPP3 open reading frames from pRTL2 into the binary vector pFGC5941 (http://www.chromdb.org/plasmids/table1.html) distributed through the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (http://www.biosci.ohio-state.edu/∼plantbio/Facilities/abrc/abrchome.htm) using NcoI restriction sites with the GFP gene at the C terminus of each gene. For RNAi lines, WPP1, WPP2, and WPP3 PCR products were cloned into the RNAi vector pFGC1008 (http://www.chromdb.org/plasmids/table1.html) using restriction sites AscI/SwaI and BamHI/SpeI for the first and second cloning directions, respectively. Primers 5′-TTACTAGTGGCGCGCCATGGCCGAAACCGAAACG-3′ and 5′-TTGGATCCATTTAAATCTCGTCAAGCTTCACTT-3′ were used for WPP1 PCR amplification. Primers 5′-TTACTAGTGGCGCGCCATGGCAGAAACCGCCGAG-3′ and 5′-TTGGATCCATTTAAATCAAGCCTCACTCT-3′ were used for WPP2 PCR amplification. Primers 5′-TTACTAGTGGCGCGCCATGGCAGAAACCGCCGAT-3′ and 5′-TTGGATCCATTTAAATTCAGCAACTGCATCATC-3′ were used for WPP3 PCR amplification. The conserved WPP motif in WPP1 was mutated to AAP using the mutagenic primer 5′-CATTTCCCTCAGAATCGCGGCACCGACTCAAAAAACTC-3′ and its complementary primer with pRTL2-mGFPS65T containing the WPP1 gene as template, as described previously for RanGAP1 (CITATION). The WPP1 open reading frame cloned in pRSET B was expressed as a recombinant protein with His and Xpress epitope tags in BL21 DE3 cells. Protein purification was performed using nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose superflow column and the protocol given by Qiagen (Valencia, CA). Rabbit antiserum against WPP1 (OSU132) was produced by Cocalico Biologicals (Reamstown, PA). Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia was used for all analyses. Seedlings were grown on MS medium (Caisson Laboratories, Rexburg, ID) supplemented with B5 vitamins, 2% sucrose, and 0.8% agar at 22°C in continuous white light. Plants were grown on soil (BFG Supply Company, Xenia, OH) under 16-h-light and 8-h-dark conditions. For callus induction, 1× Gamborg's B5 medium (Caisson Laboratories), 2% (w/v) glucose, 1.7 mM Mes, pH 5.7, 0.8% (w/v) agar, 0.5 mg/L 2,4-D, and 0.05 mg/L of kinetin was used. Green Arabidopsis suspension culture cells were cultured in Gamborg's B5 basal medium with minimal organics (Caisson Laboratories, Rexburg, ID) supplemented with 2% (w/v) sucrose, 5 μM 2,4-D, and 1.7 mM Mes, pH 5.7. Cultures were maintained by shaking at 200 rpm in constant light at 24°C and subcultured weekly by 1:10 dilution with fresh medium. The tomato MAF1-GFP transgene (CITATION) was introduced into the pCAMBIA1300 vector (CAMBIA, Canberra, Australia) between a 35S promoter and Nos terminator. This construct was electroporated into C58C1 Agrobacterium tumefaciens cells, which were used to transform the MBD-DsRed tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) cell line (CITATION). Stably transformed tobacco cells were selected using 100 mg/L of kanamycin and 20 mg/L of hygromycin, and individual calli were used to establish liquid cultures. Total protein extracts from different tissues were prepared by heating liquid N2 ground tissue in 62.5 mM Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 20% glycerol, 4% SDS, and 1.4 M 2-mercaptoethanol at 70°C for 10 min and recovering the supernatant after centrifugation at 12,000 rpm. Dilutions of 1:2000 and 1:1000 were used for the OSU132 and anti-GFP (Molecular Probes) primary antibodies, respectively. A dilution of 1:20,000 was used for the horseradish peroxidase–coupled donkey anti-rabbit secondary antibody (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala, Sweden). Immunoblot analysis was performed as described by CITATION. Enhanced chemiluminescence detection was performed as described by Amersham Pharmacia Biotech. The Arabidopsis cDNAs for WPP1, WPP2, WPP3, and the control genes (Actin and 300-bp fragment from the N terminus of RanGAP1) were synthesized and amplified by RT-PCR using specific primers for each gene. Primers 5′-TTACTAGTGGCGCGCCATGGCCGAAACCGAAACG-3′ and 5′-GAACAACACCATATTCAAGCCTCG-3′ were used for WPP1, 5′-TTACTAGTGGCGCGCCATGGCAGAAACCGCCGAG-3′ and 5′-AATAAGGAAGTAAAACCAAATTTC-3′ were used for WPP2, and 5′-TTGAATTCCTAAATCAGCAACTGCAT-3′ and 5′-TAACGCTCAAGCTTCTCCTCTAAA-3′ were used for WPP3. For Actin-related protein 6 (At3g33520) gene as control, primers 5′-AAAACCACTTACAGAGTTCGTTCG-3′ and 5′-GTTGAACGGAAGGGATTGAGAGT-3′ were used. For the RanGAP1 N terminus, the primers 5′-TTGAATTCATGGATCATTCAGCGAAA-3′ and 5′-TTGAATTCCTCAACCTCGGATTCTTC-3′ were used. Total RNA was prepared from flowers, leaves, roots, and stems of 30-d-old plants using the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen). RT-PCR was performed using the ProSTAR HF single tube RT-PCR system from Stratagene (La Jolla, CA) using 1 μL of RNA, 100 ng of each primer, and 47°C annealing temperature. Four-day-old Arabidopsis suspension cells were harvested and washed with 0.4 M mannitol and 20 mM Mes, pH 5.5, and incubated for 2 to 3 h at room temperature on a platform shaker at 180 rpm in 1% cellulase and 0.1% pectolyase (Karlan, Santa Rosa, CA). The protoplasts were washed once with W5 medium (154 mM NaCl, 5 mM KCl, 125 mM CaCl2, and 5 mM glucose, pH 6.0), resuspended in W5 medium at a concentration of 3 to 5 × 106 cells/mL, and incubated on ice for 2 h. For transformation, the protoplasts were resuspended in ice-cold 0.4 M mannitol, 15 mM MgCl2, and 5 mM Mes, pH 5.6, solution. Twenty micrograms of DNA, 300 μL of protoplast suspension, and 300 μL of 40% polyethylene glycol, 0.1 M Ca(NO3)2, and 0.4 M mannitol, pH 8.0, were mixed by gentle inversion at room temperature for 30 min. After washing with W5 medium, the transformed protoplasts were resuspended in 4 mL of Gamborg's medium with 0.4 M mannitol and incubated in the dark for 48 h before microscopy. Confocal microscopy images were obtained as described by CITATION. For further processing, Adobe Photoshop software (Adobe Systems, Mountain View, CA) was used. For the time-course experiment, observations were conducted on MBD-DsRed+MAF1-GFP cells, 2 to 3 d after subculture. The cells were immobilized on poly-l-Lys coated cover slips in a humid chamber, and images were collected using a Plan-Neofluar 40× (numerical aperture 1.3) oil-immersion objective (Zeiss, Thornwood, NY). Wide-field fluorescence microscopy was conducted using a shutter-equipped Zeiss Axiovert S100 TV microscope, and images were captured with a CoolSNAP HQ camera (Roper Scientific, Tucson, AZ) controlled by ESee software (Inovision, Durham, NC). DsRed (515 to 560 nm excitation, long-pass 590 nm emission) and GFP (460 to 500 nm excitation and 510 to 560 nm emission) filter sets were used to visualize and discriminate between these fluorophores. Images were collected using 30% excitation light intensity from a mercury short-arc lamp. For propidium iodide staining, callus cells were incubated at room temperature with 0.1 mg/mL of propidium iodide for 5 to 10 min. After five washes with growth medium, cells were used for microscopy. Samples from callus tissue from roots of transgenic GFP and WPP1-GFP Arabidopsis lines were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde and 0.2% glutaraldehyde in 0.1 M potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, at room temperature for 2 h. After three washes with potassium phosphate buffer and quenching with the same buffer containing 50 mM Gly for 20 min at room temperature, samples were dehydrated in a graded ethanol series. They were then transferred to −20°C and infiltrated in a graded ethanol/LR Gold resin (Electron Microscopy Sciences, Washington, PA) series and embedded in 100% LR Gold resin containing 0.5% benzil activator in gelatin capsules. Samples were polymerized over night by placing the capsules 15 cm above a UV light box at −20°C. Eighty- to ninety-nanometer thin sections were collected on formvar and carbon coated nickel grids. Grids were floated first on a drop of distilled water and then on a drop of PBS (10 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, containing 150 mM NaCl) for a few minutes. After blocking with Aurion goat blocking solution (Electron Microscopy Sciences, Washington, PA) for 30 min, grids were incubated overnight with a dilution of the primary antibody in the incubation buffer (10 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, containing 150 mM NaCl, 10 mM NaAzide, and 0.2% BSA) at 4°C. Two separate primary antibodies (Chemicon International, Temecula, CA) were used: the affinity purified rabbit polyclonal anti-GFP diluted to 1/50 and the mouse monoclonal anti-GFP at a 1/200 dilution. After six washes with PBS, grids were incubated with the 10-nm gold particle conjugated goat anti-rabbit or anti-mouse secondary antibody (Electron Microscopy Sciences) in incubation buffer for 5 h at room temperature. After six washes with PBS, followed by two washes in distilled water, grids were stained 5 min with a 2% aqueous solution of uranyl acetate and 2 min with a 0.5% solution of lead citrate. Samples were observed and photographed on a Hitachi H-7500 transmission electron microscope (Tokyo, Japan). The distribution of the immunogold labeling was evaluated by counting gold particles at the NE level in the GFP and GFP-WPP1 transformed callus tissue, from 24 separate grids (four grids for each transformant in three separate experiments). The T-DNA constructs were electroporated into Agrobacterium strains LBA 4404 (for RNAi plants) and GV3101 (for GFP plants), and the transformed Agrobacteria were used to transform Arabidopsis plants according to CITATION. For RNAi lines, hygromycin (25 μg/mL) resistant plants were selected. Four WPP1 (lines 1 to 4) and two WPP2 (lines 5 and 6) RNAi lines were used for further analysis because they showed absence of the WPP protein by immunoblot analysis. For RNAi/PCYCB1;1:GUS lines, kanamycin (50 μg/mL) and hygromycin (25 μg/mL) double resistant lines were used. For GFP lines, BASTA (10 μg/mL) resistant lines expressing GFP were used. Histochemical staining of GUS expression was performed as described by CITATION.
