!~ABS~! An Arabidopsis thaliana mutant, cryophyte, was isolated and found to have an enhanced cold stress-induction of the master regulator of cold tolerance, C-repeat binding factor 2 (CBF2), and its downstream target genes. The mutant is more tolerant to chilling and freezing stresses but is more sensitive to heat stress. Under warm but not cold growth temperatures, the mutant has a reduced stature and flowers earlier. Under long day conditions, flowering of the mutant is insensitive to vernalization. The mutant is also hypersensitive to the phytohormone abscisic acid. The mutation was found in a DEAD box RNA helicase gene that is identical to the previously identified low expression of osmotically responsive genes 4 (LOS4) locus, which was defined by the los4-1 mutation that reduces cold regulation of CBFs and their target genes and renders Arabidopsis plants chilling sensitive. We show evidence suggesting that the CRYOPHYTE/LOS4 protein may be enriched in the nuclear rim. In situ poly(A) hybridization indicates that the export of poly(A)+ RNAs is blocked in the cryophyte/los4-2 mutant at warm or high temperatures but not at low temperatures, whereas the los4-1 mutation weakens mRNA export at both low and warm temperatures. These results demonstrate an important role of the CRYOPHYTE/LOS4 RNA helicase in mRNA export, plant development, and stress responses.
!~RES~! A genetic screen was performed to isolate Arabidopsis mutants with deregulated expression of the luciferase reporter gene under control of the cold, abscisic acid (ABA), and osmotic stress responsive RD29A promoter (CITATION). A group of mutants were found to have enhanced RD29A-LUC expression primarily in response to cold but not to ABA or osmotic stress. One of these mutants, designated as cryophyte (for its increased cold tolerance, see below) was chosen for detailed characterization. Figure 1 shows a comparison of luminescence images of cryophyte and wild-type seedlings under cold, ABA, and high salt treatments. Quantitation of the luminescence intensities indicated that RD29A-LUC expression in cryophyte mutant plants is higher than that in the wild type specifically under cold treatment (data not shown). The RD29A-LUC expression is virtually the same in cryophyte plants in response to NaCl and ABA as in the wild type (Figure 1). [[FIGURE]] RD29A-LUC expression is activated by ABA, cold, and osmotic stress but not by heat. To examine the effect of heat stress on the luminescence phenotype, we combined ABA and heat (37°C) treatments. After 3 h of ABA treatment at 37°C, RD29A-LUC expression was determined by luciferase imaging. The heat shock treatment did not significantly affect the luminescence response to ABA in wild-type plants (Figure 1). However, the heat treatment virtually abolished the luminescence response to ABA in cryophyte mutant plants at 37°C (Figure 1). We noticed that most of the cryophyte mutant plants appeared damaged by the heat treatment, whereas no damage was seen in the wild-type plants. Homozygous cryophyte mutant plants were backcrossed with the wild type. The resulting F1 plants all exhibited a wild-type luminescence phenotype. The F2 progeny from the selfed F1 segregated ∼3:1 for the wild type/mutant (data not shown). These results indicate that the cryophyte mutant is caused by a recessive mutation in a single nuclear gene. RNA gel blot analysis was performed to determine whether the cryophyte mutation affects the expression of endogenous stress responsive genes in the cold. As shown in Figure 2, the level of CBF2 expression is higher in the mutant than that in wild-type plants under cold treatment. Consistent with the pattern of RD29A-LUC expression, cold-induced expression of the endogenous RD29A gene is higher in the cryophyte mutant than that in wild-type plants. Similarly, expression of another cold responsive gene, COR15A, is also higher in the cryophyte mutant under cold treatment (Figure 2). [[FIGURE]] Because cryophyte mutant plants exhibit an enhanced expression of cold responsive genes (Figures 1 and 2), we tested the effect of cold treatment on their growth and development. The seeds of the cryophyte mutant and the wild type were planted in soil and allowed to germinate at 22°C. After germination, the plants were placed in a cold room (4°C) and were grown under continuous light. As shown in Figures 3A and 3B, cryophyte mutant plants grew slightly but noticeably better than did wild-type plants at 4°C. Under the conditions used in this study, many wild-type plants showed chilling damage as evidenced by leaf necrosis (Figures 3A and 3B). However, the mutant leaves did not exhibit such necrosis (Figures 3A and 3B). We also tested the freezing resistance of the mutant and wild-type plants. Ten-day-old seedlings on nutrient agar plates were treated for 4 d in a cold room (4°C) under light. The seedlings were transferred to a temperature-controlled freezer (CITATION). After a freezing treatment at −9°C for 3 h, the plates were removed and incubated at room temperature for 2 d. We found that 10 ± 1% of wild-type plants and 56 ± 3% of the cryophyte mutant plants survived the freezing treatment (50 to 60 seedlings per experiment; data represent average and standard deviation of three experiments). The results suggest that the cryophyte mutant plants are more tolerant to both chilling and freezing stresses. [[FIGURE]] The luminescence response to ABA is greatly reduced at high temperatures in cryophyte mutant seedlings but not in wild-type plants (Figure 1). Therefore, we tested the effect of the cryophyte mutation on plant growth at high temperatures. The mutant and wild-type plants that had been grown at 22°C for 10 d were transferred to 30°C. At the time when the seedlings were transferred, there was no apparent difference between the mutant and wild-type plants (Figure 3D). After a 1-d incubation at 30°C, the leaves of cryophyte mutant plants began to die. After 3 d at 30°C, the mutant plants died completely and could not recover after being transferred back to 22°C (Figure 3E). By contrast, wild-type plants grew quite well at 30°C. Furthermore, we found that the cryophyte mutant plants were completely killed by incubation at 28°C for 5 d or at 26°C for 7 d. When the mutant plants were treated at 28°C for 3 d and then transferred back to 22°C, approximately half of the mutant plants survived but grew poorly and did not produce any seeds (data not shown). None of the wild-type plants appeared to be adversely affected by the treatments at 26, 28, or 30°C. We tested the effect of heat stress on the germination of cryophyte mutant seeds. Seeds were plated on MS agar medium and after 2 d of cold stratification were incubated at 30°C in the dark or under continuous light in a growth chamber. None of the wild-type seeds germinated at 30°C under either dark or light conditions. However, 100% of cryophyte mutant seeds germinated at 30°C in both dark and light. Figure 3G shows the germination of cryophyte mutant seeds under light at 30°C. At 22°C, there was no difference in the germination rate between the mutant and wild-type seeds (Figure 3F). After germination at 30 or 22°C, very young cryophyte seedlings could survive for approximately 1 week at 30°C, although they were not able to continue to grow and develop at the high temperature. In the end, the young mutant seedlings became yellowish and died at 30°C. These results suggest that the cryophyte mutation may have impaired the production of a germination inhibitor under high temperatures. In addition, the mutation appears to have less impact on the development of younger seedlings compared with older ones under high temperatures. We also tested the germination of cryophyte mutant seeds in response to ABA treatment. The mutant and wild-type seeds were planted on MS medium containing 0.1 μM ABA and grown under continuous light at 22°C. ABA inhibited the germination of both the mutant and wild-type seeds. However, the germination of cryophyte mutant seeds was much more inhibited by ABA than that of wild-type seeds (Figure 3H). The germination of cryophyte mutant seeds on 0.1 μM ABA medium was delayed by approximately 2 d compared with that of wild-type seeds. Postgermination seedling development in the mutant was also more inhibited by ABA than in the wild type (Figure 3H). Under our regular growth conditions (16 h light at 22°C and 8 h dark at 18°C), cryophyte mutant plants flowered ∼18 d after imbibition, as compared with 25 d for wild-type plants. Under short day conditions (8 h light at 22°C and 16 h dark at 18°C), the mutant also flowered earlier than the wild type. Because leaf number (LN) at the first flower bud emergence is a more accurate indicator of flowering time, we determined the LN values for the mutant and wild-type plants (Figures 4A to 4C). The results show that under both long day and short day conditions, the mutant had significantly lower LN values than the wild type. [[FIGURE]] Vernalization treatment (i.e., long period of cold) can significantly influence the time to flower in Arabidopsis. The hos1 mutant, which also shows an enhanced cold induction of RD29A-LUC, flowers earlier, and the mutant appears constitutively vernalized (CITATION). We tested whether the early flowering phenotype of the cryophyte mutant is related to vernalization. Interestingly, cryophyte mutant plants were not responsive to vernalization treatments under long day conditions (Figure 4A). By contrast, wild-type plants flowered earlier in response to vernalization (Figure 4A). However, under short day conditions, both the mutant and wild-type plants were responsive to vernalization (Figure 4B). In the absence of vernalization, the hos1 mutant (CITATION) flowers at approximately the same time as the cryophyte mutant (Figure 4C). In hos1 mutant plants, there is a constitutive reduction in the expression of FLC, a negative regulator of vernalization (CITATION). We determined FLC expression in the cryophyte mutant plants and found that the mutation has no substantial effect on FLC expression (Figure 4D). The result suggests that the cryophyte mutation promotes plant flowering possibly through a vernalization-independent pathway. The sizes of the cryophyte mutant and wild-type plants are similar before the mutant plants bolt (Figure 4E). However, mature cryophyte mutant plants are much smaller than wild-type plants. Whereas wild-type plants typically reach a height of 35 to 45 cm, the mutant plants usually do not grow taller than 20 cm (Figure 4G). The mutant plants produce fewer siliques, and the mutant siliques are shorter than that in wild-type plants. At 4°C (continuous light), cryophyte mutant plants grow as big and produce as many seeds as wild-type plants (Figure 3C). In addition, the mutant does not flower earlier compared with the wild type at 4°C. We isolated the cryophyte mutation using a map-based cloning strategy. The mutation was mapped to chromosome III between a simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP) marker on F8J2 and an SSLP marker on F4P12. Because the LOS4 gene (i.e., T4D2.40) is located in this region (CITATION), we sequenced the LOS4/T4D2.40 gene from the cryophyte mutant. Remarkably, sequence comparison revealed a G-to-A change in the second exon in the LOS4/T4D2.40 gene from cryophyte mutant plants. A binary construct containing wild-type LOS4/T4D2.40 gene (CITATION) was then introduced into cryophyte mutant plants. Analysis of the resulting transgenic plants showed that wild-type LOS4/T4D2.40 gene complemented the cryophyte mutant in the heat sensitive phenotype (Figure 5A) and other phenotypes, including the enhanced RD29A-LUC expression in the cold (data not shown). Therefore, the cryophyte mutation is allelic to los4-1 and was designated subsequently as los4-2. [[FIGURE]] The los4-2 mutation would change Glu-94 to Lys, whereas the los4-1 mutation changes Gly-364 to Arg. LOS4 is most closely related to Dbp5p/Rat8p (CITATION) in yeast, showing 39% identity and 62% similarity over 411 amino acids. The LOS4 open reading frame was fused with a His-tag and expressed in Escherichia coli. The recombinant His-LOS4 protein showed an RNA-dependent ATPase activity intrinsic to RNA helicases (Figure 5B). For unknown reasons, we were not able to obtain soluble proteins corresponding to the los4-1 or los4-2 mutant versions. To determine if the expression of LOS4 is modulated by cold, high salt, or ABA, we performed RNA gel blot analysis using total RNA extracted from 2-week-old wild-type and los4-2 seedlings. As shown in Figure 5C, the LOS4 transcript is present constitutively, and the level is not substantially affected by any of the treatments. An analysis of transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing a LOS4 promoter-β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene indicated that LOS4 is ubiquitously expressed in all plant parts, such as leaves, roots (Figure 5D), and other tissues (data not shown). Genetic allelism test was performed to determine the interaction between the los4-1 and los4-2 mutations. As shown in Figure 6A, under cold treatment (0°C for 24 h), F1 plants resulting from a cross between the los4-1 and los4-2 mutants show a level of RD29A-LUC expression similar to that of wild-type plants, which is higher than that of los4-1 but lower than that of los4-2. When 20-d-old plants grown under normal conditions were treated with chilling stress (4°C, 2 weeks), the F1 plants as well as the wild type and los4-2, but not los4-1, survived (Figure 6B). However, under heat treatment (30°C, 2 d), only the wild-type plants survived, and the F1 plants and the two parents were killed (Figure 6C). The results suggest that the los4-1 and los4-2 mutations complement each other in their transheterozygote for phenotypes that are opposite in the two mutants. Consistent with their allelic nature, for phenotypes that are similar in the two mutants (i.e., heat sensitivity), the two mutations do not complement each other. [[FIGURE]] In the elongation zone of transgenic Arabidopsis roots expressing a translational fusion between LOS4 and the green fluorescence protein (GFP), the GFP signal appeared to be in both the cytoplasm and nucleus (CITATION). However, because the nuclei in the elongating root cells are pressed by large vacuoles to the cell periphery, it was difficult to determine whether the GFP signal associated with the nucleus resides inside the nucleus or at the nuclear envelope. Because meristematic cells at the root tip have more prominent nuclei, we examined under high magnification these cells in LOS4-GFP–expressing plants to determine whether LOS4-GFP is inside the nucleus or at the nuclear rim. Confocal images show that in the root tip cells, the green fluorescence signal appears highly enriched around the nuclear envelope (Figure 7A). In addition, the GFP signal is also clearly present in the cytoplasm (Figure 7A). As controls, root meristematic cells expressing a known GFP fusion protein localized inside nuclei (GFP fused to a transcription factor, transgenic Arabidopsis line N7) and a known GFP fusion protein localized in the cytoplasm (GFP fused to an acidic ribosomal protein, transgeneic Arabidopsis line Q1) (CITATION) are shown in Figures 7B and 7C. [[FIGURE]] The apparent enrichment of LOS4 at the nuclear rim suggests that it may be involved in mRNA export. To determine the potential role of LOS4 in mRNA export, we performed in situ hybridization to localize poly(A) signals in wild-type and los4-2 mutant plants. Leaves of los4-2 and wild-type plants grown under normal conditions (22°C) for 2 weeks in soil were hybridized with a 45-mer oligo(dT) probe end-labeled with fluoresceine. As shown in Figure 8A (b), los4-2 leaf cells accumulated much stronger poly(A) signals in nuclei than did wild-type cells at 22°C. Stronger nuclear poly(A) signals were also observed in los4-2 roots and hypocotyls (data not shown), indicating that the entire mutant plant is defective in mRNA export. [[FIGURE]] los4-2 mutant plants cannot survive high temperature treatments (Figure 3E). If the heat sensitivity is caused by a more severe defect in mRNA export at high temperatures, then increased poly(A) signals might be seen in the cell nuclei of the mutant. After being shifted to 30°C for 2 h, los4-2 mutant plants produced even stronger poly(A) signals in nuclei compared with those that were not heat shocked (Figure 8A, c). By contrast, wild-type plants did not show a substantial increase in nuclear poly(A) signals after the shift to 30°C. There was no obvious difference in poly(A) signal strength in cells between los4-2 and wild-type plants when they were grown at 4°C (Figure 8A, a). After the plants were moved from 4 to 37°C for 30 min, los4-2 but not wild-type plants quickly accumulated poly(A) RNA in the nuclei (Figure 8A, d). These results suggest that the los4-2 mutant protein is defective in its mRNA export function at normal and high temperatures but is still fully functional at low temperatures. Very young los4-2 seedlings are more tolerant to heat stress relative to older mutant plants (Figure 3H; data not shown). Two-day-old and 7-d-old los4-2 and wild-type seedlings grown under normal conditions were fixed and used for in situ hybridization. As shown in Figure 8B (a and c), nuclear poly(A) signals in the 2-d-old los4-2 seedlings are much weaker than those in the 7-d-old los4-2 seedlings. After a 37°C treatment for 60 min, the nuclear poly(A) signals in the 2-d-old los4-2 seedlings are still much weaker than those in the 7-d-old los4-2 seedlings (Figure 8B, b and d). No significant nuclear poly(A) signal was detected in either the 2-d-old or 7-d-old wild-type seedlings under any of the treatment conditions. These results suggest that LOS4 is less critical for mRNA export at very early stages of Arabidopsis development. We tested whether the los4-1 mutation also affects mRNA export. los4-1 mutant plants do not show any morphological difference with wild-type plants under normal growth conditions, but los4-1 mutant plants are more sensitive to chilling (CITATION) and heat stress (Figure 6C), and the chilling sensitivity is more severe in the dark than in the light (CITATION). We compared the nuclear poly(A) signals between los4-1 and wild-type plants at different temperatures. los4-1 mutant plants show an accumulation of poly(A) signals in the nuclei compared with wild-type plants at 22°C (Figure 9A) as well as 4°C (Figures 9B and 9C). There are no apparent differences in the nuclear poly(A) signals between the dark- and light-treated mutant plants at 4°C (Figures 9B and 9C). These results show that the los4-1 mutation also affects mRNA export. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plant materials, growth conditions, and RNA analysis are as described by CITATION. Luminescence imaging was as described (CITATION). For the RNA gel blot analysis of the LOS4 gene, the full-length LOS4 cDNA was used as a probe. The cryophyte mutant in the C24 background was crossed with wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana in the Columbia background. The F2 population was screened for mutants with higher luminescence expression at 4°C. DNA samples were prepared from single leaves of mutant F2 plants. Using SSLP markers, the mutation was initially mapped to chromosome 3 between SSLP markers nga162 and nga112. The same markers for mapping los4-1 were used to narrow down the cryophyte mutation to the same region as the LOS4 locus. The construct for los4-1 complementation (CITATION) was used for cryophyte mutant complementation. For the LOS4-GFP fusion construct, LOS4 cDNA was amplified using the forward primer, 5′-CATCTAGAATGGCGGATACGGTAGAGAAAGTTCCCACC-3′ (underline indicates XbaI), and the reverse primer, 5′-GCGGATCCACTCGTCCAGCAGGCCAGCTTCCTTTAATGC-3′ (underline indicates BamHI site for GFP in-frame fusion). The PCR product was digested with XbaI and BamHI and ligated to pBIN35S-GFP vector double digested with the same two enzymes. For the LOS4 promoter-GUS fusion construct, PCR was conducted using the forward primer, 5′-ATGTCGACCATGATCAGTAATATCTTTGCATCCTC-3′ (underline indicates SalI site), and the reverse primer, 5′-AGGGATCCCAAATTCATCTTAACTTCTCCATTGATTCG-3′ (underline indicates BamHI site). The final length of the PCR fragment was 1149 bp. The PCR products were digested with BamHI and SalI and cloned into pBI101 vector. The resulting vectors were transferred into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101. These strains were then used to transform wild-type Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia-0, gl1). Transformants were selected on an MS medium (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) containing 35 mg/L of kanamycin and were transferred to soil to set seeds. Histochemical assays of GUS expression were performed as described (CITATION). The PCR product amplified using a forward primer, 5′-CGGGATCCGATGGCGGATACGGTAGAGAAAGTTCCCACC-3′ (BamHI site is underlined), and a reverse primer, 5′-AACTGCAGCTCGTCCAGCAGGCCAGCTTCCTTTAATGC-3′ (underline indicates PstI site), was cloned into pETblue-2 to make a His-tagged His-LOS4 fusion protein. The protein was purified on a His-affinity column. The ATPase activity of LOS4 RNA helicase was determined as described by CITATION. Poly(A) RNA in situ hybridization was conducted essentially as described by CITATION with minor modifications. Samples were taken from equivalent portions of young leaves at similar developmental stages from the wild type and mutants and were fixed in glass vials by adding 10 mL of fixation cocktail containing a mixture of 50% fixation buffer (120 mM NaCl, 7 mM Na2HPO4, 3 mM NaH2PO4, 2.7 mM KCl, 0.1% Tween 20, 80 mM EGTA, 5% formaldehyde, and 10% DMSO) and 50% heptane. The samples were gently shaken for 30 min at room temperature. After dehydration twice for 5 min in absolute methanol and three times for 5 min in absolute ethanol, the samples were incubated for 30 min in 1:1 ethanol:xylene and then washed twice for 5 min with absolute ethanol, twice for 5 min with absolute methanol, and once for 5 min with 1:1 methanol:fixation buffer without 5% formaldehyde. The samples were postfixed in the fixation buffer for 30 min at room temperature. After fixation, the samples were rinsed twice with fixation buffer without 5% formaldehyde and once with 1 mL of perfect Hyb Plus hybridization buffer (Sigma-Aldrich; H-7033). Each glass vial was then added with 1 mL of hybridization buffer and prehybridized in an incubator for 1 h at 50°C. After prehybridization, 5 pmol of 45-mer oligo(dT) labeled with one molecule of fluoresceine at the 5′-end (synthesized by MWG Company, High Point, NC) was added into each glass vial and hybridized at 50°C in darkness for more than 8 h. After hybridization, the samples were washed once for 60 min in 2× SSC (1× SSC is 0.15 M NaCl and 0.015 M sodium citrate), 0.1% SDS at 50°C and once for 20 min in 0.2× SSC, 0.1% SDS at 50°C in darkness. The samples were observed immediately using a Bio-Rad MRC-1024 confocal laser-scanning microscope (Hercules, CA) with a 488-nm excitation laser and a 522/DF35 emission filter. All samples were observed at the same conditions, including using the same 40× objective (bar = 40 μm), same laser strength. Approximately 10 to 12 optical sections in 0.8-mm steps were collected and projected with an imaging software package. Each experiment was repeated at least three times, and similar results were obtained.
