!~ABS~! The specification of the hair and non-hair cells in the Arabidopsis root epidermis provides a useful model for the study of cell fate determination in plants. A network of putative transcriptional regulators, including the related bHLH proteins GLABRA3 (GL3) and ENHANCER OF GLABRA3 (EGL3), is known to influence the patterning of these cell types. Here, we analyze the expression and regulation of GL3 and EGL3 during root epidermis development. Although they are thought to act in both the hair and non-hair cell types, we surprisingly found that GL3 and EGL3 gene expression and RNA accumulation occurs preferentially in the developing hair cells. By analyzing the expression of GL3::GUS and EGL3::GUS reporter fusions in various mutant and overexpression lines, we discovered that the expression of both genes is negatively regulated by WER, GL3 and EGL3 in the developing non-hair cells, and positively regulated by the CPC and TRY proteins in the developing hair cells. Further, the analysis of a GL3-YFP translational fusion, expressed under the GL3 promoter, indicates that the GL3 protein moves from the hair cells to the non-hair cells. These results suggest that GL3/EGL3 accumulation in the N cells is dependent on specification of the hair cell fate, which itself is known to be influenced (via CPC-mediated lateral inhibition) by the non-hair cells. This bi-directional signaling mechanism defines a new regulatory circuit of intercellular communication to specify the epidermal cell types.
!~RES~! Our earlier results led to the suggestion that the GL3 and EGL3 genes are expressed in both the developing hair cells and non-hair cells (CITATION). To test this, we generated and analyzed promoter-GUS fusions for each gene (GL3::GUS and EGL3::GUS). In each line, the maximum GUS activity was observed in the meristematic region of the developing root tip (Fig. 1). This temporal pattern is similar to that previously reported for WER and earlier than for GL2 (CITATION; CITATION), which is consistent with the view that the bHLH genes act at the same stage as WER and regulate GL2 expression (CITATION). However, the GL3::GUS and EGL3::GUS showed significantly higher levels of GUS activity in cells located in the H position than the N position (Fig. 1), although longer incubation times also caused some GUS staining in the N cells. The cells preferentially expressing these reporters were determined to be in the H position because the stained cell files overlie radial cortical cell walls, they show a higher cell division rate than unstained files (see magnified view in Fig. 1), and they can be traced to mature cells that are hair forming. Thus, despite the important role of GL3 and EGL3 in specifying the non-hair fate in the N position, these genes are preferentially expressed in the H cell position.   [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the unexpected bHLH promoter activity pattern was associated with a similar bHLH RNA accumulation pattern, we conducted in situ RNA hybridization experiments. Because of the high degree of sequence similarity throughout the GL3 and EGL3 genes, it was not possible to generate viable gene-specific antisense RNA probes. Rather, we designed an antisense RNA probe corresponding to a conserved region in GL3/EGL3, so that the probe would recognize both genes, but not other related bHLH genes in Arabidopsis. Using whole roots from four-day-old wild-type seedlings, we found that this probe preferentially hybridized to cells in the H position (Fig. 2A). Again, the position of the cell files was determined by their location relative to the underlying cortical cell walls and their differential cell division rate (Fig. 2A). This result was reinforced by the analysis of bHLH RNA accumulation in rare epidermal clones (Fig. 2A, last panel). These clones form when occasional longitudinal anticlinal divisions in cells in the H position create two cell files; one located over the anticlinal cortical cell wall (the H position) and one overlying a periclinal cortical cell wall (the N position) (CITATION). In these clones, we found that cells in the N position no longer accumulate GL3/EGL3 RNA (Fig. 2B). As a control, roots hybridized with the sense RNA strand as a probe yielded no signal (Fig. 2A, first panel).   [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the antisense RNA probe indeed recognizes both gene sequences and to determine whether both RNAs accumulate in the same pattern, we also tested roots from the gl3-2 and egl3-1 single mutants and the gl3-2 egl3-1 double mutant. Both single mutants showed a similar but weaker hybridization pattern as the wild-type roots, while gl3-2 egl3-1 double mutant roots displayed a very low level of signal (Fig. 2B). This suggests that the antisense probe primarily detects GL3 transcripts in the egl3 mutant and EGL3 transcripts in the gl3 mutant. This conclusion is supported by gene-specific RT-PCR experiments that show a reduced level of GL3 RNA in the roots of gl3-2 and gl3-2 egl3-1 relative to egl3-1 and a reduced level of EGL3 RNA in the roots of egl3-1 and gl3-2 egl3-1 relative to gl3-2 (data not shown). Together, these data imply that the GL3 RNA and EGL3 RNA exhibit the same pattern of preferential accumulation in the H cell. These results support the reporter fusion results and suggest that the GL3 and EGL3 RNAs do not move from cell-to-cell. The position-dependent patterning of root epidermal gene expression is known to be established during early stages of embryogenesis (CITATION; CITATION). To explore further the unexpected expression pattern of GL3 and EGL3, we examined the GL3::GUS and EGL3::GUS activity during embryogenesis. We found that GUS activity accumulated in the same H cell pattern in the epidermis of the mature embryonic root as in the postembryonic root (Fig. 3A).   [[FIGURE]] Considering this embryonic expression, we wished to determine whether the GL3 and EGL3 genes act in a similar manner in the embryonic and postembryonic root. Specifically, we examined whether embryonic GL2 and CPC gene expression (using the GL2::GUS and CPC::GUS reporters) is reduced in a gl3 egl3 mutant, as they are in the seedling root (CITATION). Indeed, we observed significantly less GUS activity in the root of the gl3 egl3 GL2::GUS mature embryos (Fig. 3B). We were unable to detect any GUS expression in the mutant or wild-type embryonic root bearing the CPC::GUS reporter, which prevented an assessment of the role of GL3/EGL3 on CPC (Fig. 3B). The hypocotyl is known to be patterned by a similar network of transcription factors as the root to define two position-dependent cell types: cells capable of producing stomata and non-stomata cells (CITATION; CITATION). In gl3 egl3 embryos bearing either the GL2::GUS or the CPC::GUS reporters, we detected a significantly reduced level of GUS activity in the embryonic hypocotyl relative to the wild type (Fig. 3B). This dependence of GL2 and CPC expression on the presence of GL3/EGL3 in the embryonic hypocotyl suggested a possible role for both proteins during stomatal patterning in the hypocotyl. To explore this further, we analyzed stomata distribution in the hypocotyls of nine-day-old seedlings of wild type and gl3 egl3 double mutants. In contrast to the wild type, which has stomata predominantly form over a radial cortical cell wall (analogous to the H position of the root epidermis), the gl3 egl3 hypocotyls have an increased number of stomata and they are present in both positions (Table 1). This shows that GL3 and EGL3 are required for proper stomata patterning, and it strengthens the close relationship between the mechanism for patterning the hypocotyl and root epidermis in Arabidopsis.    Effect of gl3 and egl3 on stomata patterning in the hypocotyl *  We wished to determine whether any of the transcription factors in the epidermal cell fate network might regulate the expression of the GL3 and EGL3 genes. Because the EGL3::GUS line exhibited a greater expression level than the GL3::GUS line, thus allowing for better analysis of weaker effects, we first focused our efforts on studying the control of the EGL3 expression pattern. We first examined the possible role of the upstream regulators in this system, WER and TTG. The EGL3::GUS transgene was introduced into the wer-1 and ttg-1 mutant backgrounds, and we found that each of the homozygous mutants exhibit ectopic GUS expression in the N cell position (Fig. 4A). This suggests that WER and TTG negatively regulate EGL3 expression in the N cells.   [[FIGURE]] Next, we tested the possible effects of the lateral inhibitors CPC and TRY. We found that neither cpc nor try mutants significantly altered EGL3::GUS expression, but the cpc try double mutant exhibited essentially no GUS activity (Fig. 4B). We also introduced the EGL3::GUS reporter construct in both the 35S::CPC and 35S::TRY background and found that overexpression of each gene induced ectopic EGL3::GUS expression in the N cell position (Fig. 4B). As CPC and TRY are related genes known to act in a partially redundant fashion (CITATION; CITATION), this indicates that the CPC/TRY function is required for EGL3 gene expression in the H position. We next tested the effect of gl2 and rhd6 mutants on EGL3 expression. Results from mutant and overexpression analyses indicate that GL3/EGL3 act at an early stage of root epidermis development (CITATION), so we expected no effect of mutations in the later acting genes GL2 and RHD6. Consistent with this, the EGL3::GUS pattern in gl2 and rhd6 was indistinguishable from the wild type (Fig. 4A). Last, we examined the possibility that the GL3/EGL3 proteins themselves might regulate EGL3 promoter activity. Although roots of the gl3 EGL3::GUS and egl3 EGL3::GUS lines exhibit only weak ectopic GUS activity, the gl3 egl3 EGL3::GUS double mutant line possessed strong GUS expression in the N position (Fig. 4C). Furthermore, overexpression of either bHLH gene (via the 35S::GL3 and 35S::EGL3 constructs) caused a weak or modest reduction in EGL3::GUS expression. These results suggest an autoregulation of EGL3 expression: the EGL3 protein (together with GL3) is able to inhibit its own gene's promoter activity. To determine whether the GL3 promoter activity is regulated in a similar manner as EGL3, we introduced the GL3::GUS reporter into selected genetic backgrounds. We found that the wer mutant, the gl3 egl3 double mutant, and the 35S::CPC overexpression construct caused ectopic GL3::GUS expression, whereas the cpc try double mutant exhibited a much lower level of GL3::GUS expression (Fig. 5). In addition, GL3::GUS activity was not effected by the cpc single mutant or the gl2 mutation (data not shown). These results are all consistent with the effects of these factors on EGL3::GUS, and it suggests that both genes are regulated similarly.   [[FIGURE]] In addition to assessing the role of the cell fate transcription factors on promoter activity, we wished to examine their effects on GL3/EGL3 RNA accumulation. Using whole-mount RNA in situ hybridization, we analyzed the hybridization of an antisense probe (which can hybridize to both GL3 and EGL3 RNA) to roots from the wer, cpc try and 35S::CPC. We found, relative to the wild type, ectopic signal in the wer mutant and the 35S::CPC line, and very low level of signal from the cpc try double mutant (Fig. 6). These results provide support for the promoter-reporter fusion studies above, and show that WER negatively regulates GL3/EGL3 RNA accumulation in the N position and CPC/TRY positively regulates GL3/EGL3 RNA accumulation in the H position.   [[FIGURE]] To determine the location of the GL3/EGL3 bHLH proteins during epidermis development, we constructed a GL3-YFP translational fusion under the control of the GL3 promoter (GL3::GL3-YFP). This construct was introduced into both gl3-1 and gl3-2 mutant plants. These transgenic plants showed normal root hair patterning and trichome formation (data not shown), indicating that the GL3-YFP fusion was functional. Transgenic plants expressing this construct displayed YFP expression predominantly in the nuclei of developing epidermal cells in the N position (as determined by their relative cell length, Fig. 7). We also verified this cell location by tracing the cells in the YFP-expressing files back to non-hair cells in the mature portion of the root. This suggests that the GL3 protein accumulates in the N cell, although the GL3 promoter activity and GL3 RNA accumulation is primarily in the H cell.   [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The isolation of the mutant alleles used in this study has been described: gl3-1 and gl3-2, both in the Ler background (Koornneef, 1982; CITATION); egl3-1, in the Ler genetic background (CITATION); wer-1, in the Columbia ecotype (CITATION); ttg-1, in the Ler genetic background (CITATION); cpc-1, in the WS genetic background (CITATION); try-82, in the Ler genetic background (CITATION); gl2-1, in the Ler genetic background (Koornneef, 1982); rhd6-1, in the WS ecotype (CITATION). The following transgenic lines have been described previously: GL3::GUS and EGL3::GUS (CITATION), GL2::GUS (CITATION), CPC::GUS (CITATION), 35S::GL3 (CITATION), 35S::EGL3 (CITATION), 35S::CPC (CITATION) and 35S::TRY (CITATION). Lines homozygous for multiple mutations and/or transgenes were constructed by crossing single mutant or transgenic plants, examining the F2 progeny for putative mutant phenotypes, and confirming the desired genotype in subsequent generations by backcrossing to single mutants and/or PCR-based tests. For seedling analysis, Arabidopsis seeds were surface sterilized and grown on agarose-solidified nutrient medium in vertically oriented petri plates as previously described (CITATION). The histochemical analysis of plants containing the GUS reporter constructs was performed on at least 20 four-day-old root tips for each strain essentially as described (CITATION). Root epidermal cells were deemed to be in the N position if they were located outside a periclinal cortical cell wall, whereas cells in the H position were located outside a radial wall between adjacent cortical cells. The distribution of epidermal cell types in the hypocotyl was analyzed in 25 nine-day-old seedlings for each strain by determining the number of stomata formed along the hypocotyl in two adjacent epidermal cell files, one located over anticlinal cortical cell walls and one located over periclinal cortical cell walls. The whole-mount in situ RNA hybridization procedure has been described (CITATION). The RNA probe was designed to hybridize to both GL3 and EGL3 transcripts, so it included bp 550-1120 and bp 1400-1850 downstream from the start site of the EGL3-coding sequence corresponding to the most similar region of the GL3 and EGL3 proteins but excluding the bHLH signature region to eliminate the possibility of cross-hybridization to other bHLH proteins. To construct the GL3::GL3-YFP translational fusion, pD2L-2 (CITATION) was used to provide a GL3 genomic DNA fragment containing the entire GL3 gene, including ∼1 kb upstream of the start codon and 1 kb downstream of the stop codon. The existing SacI and SalI sites of pD2L-2 were destroyed and new SacI and SalI sites were generated by inverse PCR at the 3′ end of the GL3-coding region. The EYFP-coding region was amplified from pEYFP (Clontech) and fused in-frame to the GL3 3′ end. A BamHI fragment from this vector, containing the entire GL3::EYFP fusion, was subcloned into the BglII site of the T-DNA vector pAL47 (CITATION). The GL3-YFP fusion protein is predicted to be 96 kDa, whereas the predicted size of the GL3 and EGL3 proteins is 70 kDa and 66 kDa, respectively. Plant transformation was performed by the floral dip method (CITATION).
