!~ABS~! The ubiquitin proteasome pathway in plants has been shown to be important for many developmental processes. The E3 ubiquitin-protein ligases facilitate transfer of the ubiquitin moiety to substrate proteins. Many E3 ligases contain cullin proteins as core subunits. Here, we show that Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) AtCUL3 proteins interact in yeast two-hybrid and in vitro pull-down assays with proteins containing a BTB/POZ (broad complex, tramtrack, bric-a-brac/pox virus and zinc finger) motif. By changing specific amino acid residues within the proteins, critical parts of the cullin and BTB/POZ proteins are defined that are required for these kinds of interactions. In addition, we show that AtCUL3 proteins assemble with the RING-finger protein AtRBX1 and are targets for the RUB-conjugation pathway. The analysis of AtCUL3a and AtCUL3b expression as well as several BTB/POZ-MATH genes indicates that these genes are expressed in all parts of the plant. The results presented here provide strong evidence that AtCUL3a and AtCUL3b can assemble in Arabidopsis with BTB/POZ-MATH and AtRBX1 proteins to form functional E3 ligases.
!~RES~! Recent findings in C. elegans and humans showed that CUL3 proteins can broadly interact with proteins carrying a BTB/POZ domain (CITATION; CITATION). Some of these proteins, such as MEL-26 and the nuclear speckle-type POZ (Spop) protein, have a secondary MATH domain. In C. elegans and humans, Spop proteins have been implicated in transcriptional control, chromatin folding, and actin binding (CITATION; CITATION). We decided to focus on related BTB/POZ-MATH proteins from Arabidopsis. There are six such proteins encoded in the Arabidopsis, all of which show closest homology to the Spop class of proteins with approximately 30% amino acid sequence identity (CITATION). Based on the presence of the BTB-POZ and MATH domains, the six Arabidopsis genes were named AtBPM1 (At5g19000), AtBPM2 (At3g06190), AtBPM3 (At2g39760), AtBPM4 (At3g03740), AtBPM5 (At5g21010), and AtBPM6 (At3g43700) for BTB/POZ-MATH. All members of the AtBPM family are highly conserved within their domains and range in size from 410 to 421 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of 44 to 50 kD. As in CeMEL-26 and Spop, the MATH domains are located within the NH2-terminal half of the protein, whereas BTB/POZ domains are in the COOH-terminal region (Fig. 1). Phylogenetic analysis showed that the six AtBPM proteins can be classified into four subgroups with AtBPM1 and AtBPM2 in one group, AtBPM5 and AtBPM6 in a second, and AtBPM3 and AtBPM4 each in a separate group (Fig. 1B). [[FIGURE]] To analyze interactions with AtCUL3a and AtCUL3b, cDNAs of four AtBPM (AtBPM1, AtBPM3, AtBPM5, and AtBPM6) genes and the two AtCUL3 cullins were cloned into Y2H vectors. As shown in Figure 2A, both cullins interacted equally well with AtBPM1. By contrast, AtCUL3a clearly showed less interaction with AtBPM3 compared to AtCUL3b. Interestingly, neither of the cullins interacted with AtBPM5 and AtBPM6. To verify interaction with AtBPM1, AtCUL3a and AtCUL3b were synthesized in a coupled transcription-translation reaction and used for pull-down assays with bacterial expressed and purified GST (glutathione S-transferase) or GST∷AtBPM1 proteins. In agreement with the Y2H data, interaction was only detectable with GST∷AtBPM1, not with GST alone (Fig. 2C). As a further control for specificity of interactions, the closely related AtCUL4 protein was tested for interaction with AtBPM1 using Y2H and pull-down assays, and no interaction was observed between the two proteins (Fig. 2, A and C). In addition, the AtCUL3 proteins did not interact with members of the ASK family (data not shown). These findings are in agreement with both CITATION, who demonstrated specific assembly of C. elegans CeCUL3 with BTB/POZ proteins, and with CITATION, who also found that AtCUL3 proteins did not interact with members of the ASK protein family. [[FIGURE]] The BTB/POZ domain has been reported to allow assembly of homodimers and heterodimers with other members of the BTB/POZ protein family (CITATION). To investigate whether this is true for the AtBPM family, combinatorial interaction studies of AtBPM1 with the other AtBPM proteins were performed. As shown in Figure 2B, AtBPM1 and AtBPM3 assemble into homodimers but are also capable of interacting with the other three AtBPM proteins to form heterodimers, although the AtBPM3-AtBPM6 interaction was weak. This is especially interesting since AtBPM5 and AtBPM6 did not appear to interact with either of the two AtCUL3 proteins. As in the case of AtCUL3a and AtCUL3b, the Y2H result for AtBPM1 was verified by using in vitro translated AtBPM1 protein for pull-down assays with GST or GST∷AtBPM1 (Fig. 2C). Consistent with results from the Y2H assays, interaction was only detectable for GST∷AtBPM1 proteins. Taken together, these findings indicate that interactions within the AtBPM family appear to be less specific compared to their assembly with cullin proteins. It has been shown in a variety of systems that E3 ligases that include members of the CUL1, CUL3, and CUL4 families also contain the RING finger protein RBX1 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In Arabidopsis, AtRBX1 has been shown to interact with AtCUL1 and AtCUL4 (CITATION; CITATION). To investigate this possibility with AtCUL3a and AtCUL3b, Arabidopsis AtRBX1 (CITATION) was cloned into the two-hybrid vector pACT2 and used for Y2H assays with both cullins. As shown in Figure 3A, AtRBX1 interacted equally well with each of the two cullins. This was further confirmed by in vitro studies in which AtCUL3a translated in rabbit reticulocyte lysate was incubated with GST∷AtRBX1 synthesized in Escherichia coli. Pull-down assays led to recovery of AtCUL3a, further underlining true interaction between AtCUL3 and AtRBX1 proteins (Fig. 3B). [[FIGURE]] Activity of cullin-based E3 ubiquitin ligases depends on modification of the cullin subunit by the ubiquitin-related protein Nedd8/RUB1. For example, it has been demonstrated that Arabidopsis AtCUL1 is a target for RUB1 modification and that this modification is required for proper SCF functioning (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The RUB1 attachment site is a Lys residue located within a highly conserved motif (VRIMK) at the COOH-terminal region of AtCUL1 (CITATION). Since AtCUL3a and AtCUL3b contain the conserved motif with the Lys residue at position 678 (Fig. 4A), we asked whether Arabidopsis AtCUL3 proteins are also targets for RUB1 modification. To answer this question, both AtCUL3 cullins were in vitro translated and incubated with a purified GST∷RUB1 fusion protein. RUB1 modification of both cullins was indicated by a shift in their mobility on SDS-PAGE (Fig. 3C). The specificity of the modification was confirmed by changing the conserved Lys residues to Met (AtCUL3aK678M and AtCUL3bK678M, respectively). Neither mutant protein was modified by RUB1 (Fig. 3C). These results demonstrate that both cullins are potential targets for a RUB-modification pathway in planta. Together with the AtRBX1 and AtBPM interaction studies, our results give strong evidence that AtCUL3a and AtCUL3b can assemble into functional E3 ligases in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] To characterize critical amino acid residues required for interaction between AtCUL3 and AtBPM proteins, a mutagenesis approach was used with a focus on AtCUL3a and AtBPM1. Conserved Ser and Phe residues that are present in the CUL3 family have been reported to be crucial for assembly with BTB/POZ proteins (CITATION). Corresponding residues are located at positions 50 and 51 in both AtCUL3a and AtCUL3b. Interestingly, sequence comparison of AtCUL3s, CeCUL3 and HsCUL3 with AtCUL1 and AtCUL4, showed that the corresponding residues are absent in the two latter cullins (Fig. 4A). Mutagenesis of the two residues to Ala (AtCUL3aS50AF51A) resulted in total loss of AtCUL3a interaction with AtBPM1 (Fig. 4B). By contrast, the AtCUL3aK678M protein showed normal interaction with AtBPM1 (Fig. 4B). Furthermore, assembly with AtRBX1 was not affected by any of the amino acid substitutions (AtCUL3aS50AF51A, AtCUL3aK678M), indicating that these substitutions probably do not result in total loss of AtCUL3a's native protein folding. Most importantly, however, these findings describe the NH2-terminal part of AtCUL3a as the functional interacting region with BTB/POZ proteins. To underscore the relevance of the BTB/POZ motif for assembly with AtCUL3 and other AtBPM proteins, a stop codon was introduced at position 189 (AtBPM1L189Stop) between the MATH and BTB/POZ domains of AtBPM1 (Fig. 5A). As shown in Figure 5, B and C, loss of the BTB/POZ domain prevented all interaction in Y2H and in vitro pull-down studies, respectively, with both AtCUL3a and AtBPM1. Additionally, a highly conserved Asp residue that is known to be critical for dimerization with BTB/POZ proteins (CITATION) can be found within the first α-helices and second β-sheet of the BTB/POZ motif at position 204 in AtBPM1. When this residue was changed to Ala (AtBPM1D204A), we observed total loss of interaction with AtCUL3a and AtBPM1 in Y2H assays (Fig. 5B). However, using in vitro pull downs, a weak interaction was still detectable, indicating that the mutation has not fully disrupted the protein conformation and ligand binding ability (Fig. 5C). To further investigate the nature of the interaction, the Asp residue was also changed to an Asn (AtBPM1D204N), and analysis showed that this mutant interacted with AtCUL3a and AtBPM1 in the Y2H system (Fig. 5B). Based on the crystal structure of SCF complexes and the BTB/POZ protein PLZF, several additional residues in the BTB/POZ motif may be relevant for interaction with CUL3 proteins (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Phe-328, Tyr-330, and Leu-332 are all located within the fifth α-helices of the BTB/POZ domain of AtBPM1 (Fig. 5A). Substitution of Phe-328 or Tyr-330 with Ala reduced the interaction with AtCUL3a (Fig. 5B). By contrast, a similar substitution of Leu-332 had no effect on interaction with AtCUL3a. However, all three substitutions affected the interaction with AtBPM1, indicating that Leu-332 is more important for assembly with AtBPM proteins (Fig. 5B). In summary, these findings show that the BTB/POZ domain is required for interaction with both AtCUL3 and other AtBPM proteins. [[FIGURE]] To gain information on which tissues AtCUL3-based E3 ligases might be active, reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis was performed for AtCUL3 and the four AtBPM genes. Figure 6A shows that AtCUL3a and AtCUL3b are expressed in flowers, leaves, and shoots, and the different AtBPM genes mainly varied in the level of overall expression. Strongest expression was found for AtBPM3, whereas AtBPM6 was barely detectable but was present in all tissues examined (Fig. 6A). Analysis of transgenic AtCUL3a promoter∷GUS (pAtCUL3a∷GUS) plants showed GUS (β-glucuronidase) expression in root tips of lateral roots (Fig. 6, D and E). Even at very early stages of lateral root development, GUS staining was detectable in these lines. GUS staining was also visible in vascular tissue of leaves (Fig. 6, B and C). Interestingly, expression in flowers was age dependent; in young flower primordia, no GUS expression was observed. However, as flower development progressed, expression spread to all parts of the young flower (Fig. 6, F and G). By contrast, expression in older and fully differentiated flowers was only noticeable in the area of the pistil (Fig. 6, H and I). Expression in young flowers was confirmed by in situ hybridization (Fig. 6, J and K). pAtCUL3b∷GUS lines also showed strong expression in all parts of the shoot and root (Fig. 6, L–Q), consistent with the RT-PCR data. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants were of the Col-0 ecotype. Plants were grown on soil in a greenhouse at 20°C under long-day conditions (16 h light, 8 h dark). Promoters (P) and cDNAs (D) from AtCUL3s and BTB/POZ-MATH genes were amplified with specific primers (PAtCUL3aFW, accaatgaaggatggatgat; PAtCUL3aRW, attttgaaacctgaatccaa; PAtCUL3bFW, aaaaagcaggctatgttctgtatcaaaacgatgcatatc; PAtCUL3bRW, agaaagctgggttgttgaaaagtaaactg; DAtCUL3aFW, atgagtaatcagaagaagag; DAtCUL3aRW, ttaggctagatagcggtaaa; DAtCUL3bFW, atgagtaatcagaagaagagaaatttcc; DAtCUL3bRW, ctaacaatcacaagactcaataaac; DAtBPM1FW, atgggcacaactagggtctgc; DAtBPM1RW, tcagtgcaaccggggcttcac; DAtBPM3FW, atgagtaccgtcggaggtatag; DAtBPM3RW, ctaagacactgctcgcacttc; DAtBPM5FW, atgtcagaatcagtgattcag; DAtBPM5W, ctaggtggttcgttgtctaac; DAtBPM6FW, atgtcaaagctaatgaccag; DAtBPM6RW, ctaagtggttcgctgcctgac) from genomic DNA or cDNA libraries, respectively (CITATION), using Bio-X-Act polymerase (Bioline, Randolph, MA). The AtCUL3b promoter was cloned using GATEWAY BP and LR reactions (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) into the binary vector pBGWFS7 (CITATION), whereas the AtCUL3a promoter was cloned into SpeI restriction sites of the binary vector pCB308 (CITATION). Binary vectors were introduced by electroporation into Agrobacterium and subsequently used in plant transformation, according to the method of CITATION. cDNAs were cloned into pCR2.1 (Invitrogen) for sequencing and use for further subclonings. A lexA-based two-hybrid system was used containing pBTM116-D9 (kindly provided by Dr. Erich Wanker) as bait plasmid and pACT2 (CLONTECH, Palo Alto, CA; GenBank accession no. U29899) as prey plasmid, together with the yeast reporter strain L40ccU3 [MATa, his3-200, trp1-901, leu2-3, 112ade2 LYS2∷(lexAop)4-HIS3, URA∷(lexAop)8-lacZ, GAL4, gal80]. Both vectors were modified with a GATEWAY cassette (Invitrogen). Additionally, pBTM116-D9 plasmid was also modified with a tetracycline resistance. cDNAs of cullins and BTB/POZ genes were cloned into pDONR221, and AtRBX1 was cloned into pDONR201 (Invitrogen) and subsequently introduced into two-hybrid plasmids by GATEWAY reactions (Invitrogen). cDNAs of AtCUL3a in pBTM116-D9 and At5g19000 in pACT2 were directly used for introduction of point mutations by a Stratagene (La Jolla, CA) mutagenesis kit (AtCUL3aS50AF51A, gatgctagcggtctcgctgccgaagaactttacag; cAtCUL3aS50AF51A, ctgtaaagttcttcggcagcgagaccgctagcatc; AtCUL3aK678M, catcgtaaggatcatgatgtccaggaaaatactag; cAtCUL3aK678M, ctagtattttcctggacatcatgatccttacgatg; AtBPM1L189Stop, gccagtttctaactagggacaacagttggg; cAtBPM1L189Stop, cccaactgttgtccctagttagaaactggc; AtBPM1D204N, gtgggaaaggctgtaatgttgttttccaagttg; cAtBPM1D204N, caacttggaaaacaacattacagcctttcccac; AtBPM1D204A, gtgggaaaggctgtgctgttgttttccaagttg; cAtBPM1D204A, caacttggaaaacaacagcacagcctttcccac; AtBPM1D328A, ctagcagcggcagcccgttatgctcttgag; cAtBPM1D328A, ctcaagagcataacgggctgccgctgctag; AtBPM1Y330A, cagcggcagaccgtgctgctcttgagcggcttaaag; cAtBPM1Y330A, ctttaagccgctcaagagcagcacggtctgccgctg; AtBPM1L332A, gcagaccgttatgctgctgagcggcttaaagc; cAtBPM1L332A, gctttaagccgctcagcagcataacggtctgc). For Y2H assays, yeast cells were subsequently transformed with bait and prey plasmid constructs using a standard lithium acetate technique. Cells were grown for 3 d at 30°C on synthetic dextrose (SD) minimal medium supplemented with Leu and His (SDII), as described by CITATION. Selected colonies were diluted 1:2,000 in autoclaved distilled water before 50 μL were dotted on SD minimal medium without supplements (SDIV) for control of interaction. Photographs of single dots were taken 3d after transfer. In vitro translated cullins, AtBPM1, and mutagenized proteins were synthesized with the TNT-reticulocyte lysate system (Promega, Madison, WI) using [35S] trans-labeled Met (Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK). GST-RBX1, -AtBPM1, -AtBPM1D204A, and -AtBPM1Stop fusion proteins and sole GST proteins were generated in Escherichia coli DH5α from pGEX-2TK plasmid (Pharmacia, Piscataway, NJ). For pull downs, proteins were incubated at 4°C for 2 h before incubation for 1 h with equal amounts of GST or GST fusion proteins. Proteins were recovered by adding glutathione beads (Sigma, St. Louis) and incubating for 1 h. Binding assays and washing were done in standard buffer (50 mm Tris/HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 5 mm MgCl2, 0.2% Nonidet P-40). For RUB-modification assays, in vitro translated AtCUL3a, AtCUL3b, and mutant cDNAs were incubated for 15 min at 25°C with purified GST∷RUB1 in the presence of 3 mm ATP, 0.1 mm dithiothreitol, 5 mm MgCl2, and 10 units/mL inorganic pyrophosphatase (Roche, Basel). Reactions were stopped by adding 4× SDS/dithiothreitol loading buffer and boiling for 10 min. Proteins were resolved on SDS-PAGE. Products were detected by autoradiography. For expression analysis, different tissues (flower, shoot, leaf, and root) were harvested from 4-week-old soil-grown plants and directly frozen in liquid nitrogen. Total RNA extraction and DNase I digestion were done using a NucleoSpin RNA Plant kit (Macherey-Nagel, Duren, Germany). RT-PCR was done using a One-Step RT-PCR kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). A total of 90 ng of total RNA was used for each RT-PCR reaction. Reactions were done according to the Qiagen manual with 25 cycles, 60°C annealing temperature, and 1 min of elongation time, using the same cDNA-specific AtBPM primers mentioned above. AtCUL3a and AtCUL3b were amplified using the following primers: CUL3aRTPCRFW, gaactttacagaaatgcgta; CUL3aRTPCRRW, gagtgtttagaagccttgtatgt; CUL3bRTPCRFW, gagctttacagaaacgcata; and CUL3bRTPCRRW, gcgtattcaatagcctagtctga. actin2 was amplified using the following primers: actin2FW, tacaacgagcttcgtgttgc; and actin2RW, gattgatcctccgatccaga. Flower tissue from 28-d-old soil-grown plants was fixed in freshly prepared 4% paraformaldehyde before embedding in paraffin. Ten-micrometer sections were prepared for in situ hybridization according to CITATION. As template for RNA synthesis, a 650-bp fragment from the 5′ end of AtCUL3a was used. Labeling of sense and antisense RNA was done with a DIG-RNA labeling kit (Roche). Hybridization was followed according to CITATION. For detection of GUS expression, different tissues were incubated up to 24 h in GUS-staining solution according to CITATION.
