!~ABS~! During phosphate starvation, it is known that phospholipids are degraded, and conversely, a nonphosphorus galactolipid digalactosyldiacylglycerol accumulates in the root plasma membrane of plants. We report a novel phospholipase C that hydrolyzes phosphatidylcholine and is greatly induced in response to phosphate deprivation in Arabidopsis. Since phosphatidylcholine-hydrolyzing activity by phospholipase C was highly up-regulated in phosphate-deprived plants, gene expression of some phospholipase C was expected to be induced during phosphate starvation. Based on amino acid sequence similarity to a bacterial phosphatidylcholine-hydrolyzing phospholipase C, six putative phospholipase Cs were identified in the Arabidopsis genome, one of which, NPC4, showed significant transcriptional activation upon phosphate limitation. Molecular cloning and functional expression of NPC4 confirmed that the NPC4 gene encoded a functional phosphatidylcholine-hydrolyzing phospholipase C that did not require Ca2+ for its activity. Subcellular localization analysis showed that NPC4 protein was highly enriched in the plasma membrane. Analyses of transferred DNA-tagged npc4 mutants revealed that disruption of NPC4 severely reduces the phosphatidylcholine-hydrolyzing phospholipase C activity in response to phosphate starvation. These results suggest that NPC4 plays an important role in the supply of both inorganic phosphate and diacylglycerol from membrane-localized phospholipids that would be used for phosphate supplementation and the replacement of polar lipids in the root plasma membrane during phosphate deprivation. 
!~RES~! PC-hydrolyzing Activity Mediated by a Novel PLC Was Up-regulated during Pi Starvation—To investigate whether PC-hydrolyzing activity is induced under Pi deprivation, both 10-day Pi-deprived or replete plants were analyzed with radiolabeled PC as a substrate. First, we measured radioactive recovery in possible derivatives of PC, namely DAG, PA, lyso-PA, monoacylglycerol (MAG), and free fatty acid by TLC. After a 1-h incubation of crude enzyme extract with radiolabeled PC, we found that production of radioactive DAG is highly induced by Pi starvation (Fig. 1A). Production of radioactive MAG and free fatty acid also increased in response to Pi starvation, although to a much lower extent than DAG. Those increases occurred concomitantly with that of DAG, suggesting that DAG is subsequently deacylated by an acylhydrolase activity present in the reaction mixture. As for the radioactivity in PA and lyso-PA, they were low and not significantly changed between Pi-starved and -replete plants. These results suggest that PC is mainly converted to DAG in Pi-deprived plants. We also compared DAG-producing activity of crude extract from shoots and roots. As seen in Fig. 1B, production of radiolabeled DAG was strongly induced by phosphate starvation, especially in roots, whereas there was no difference between roots and shoots in Pi-replete plants. Therefore, the activity to produce DAG from PC is highly up-regulated specifically in roots during phosphate starvation.  [[FIGURE]]  As mentioned in the Introduction, two pathways are considered for the production of DAG from PC; one is by a PLC, whereas the other is a combinatory two-step reaction by PLD and PA phosphatase. Therefore, it is necessary to investigate which pathway is responsible for PC hydrolysis upon Pi starvation. To monitor PLD activity, it is suitable to employ the distinct property of transphosphatidylation (CITATION). PLD is reported to preferentially select n-BuOH as a substrate over H2O, and thus PLD activity in the presence of n-BuOH results in the accumulation of PBu (CITATION). PC hydrolysis of Pi-starved root extract showed considerable accumulation of PBu in the presence of 0.75% n-BuOH (Fig. 1C). However, it was not obviously induced upon Pi starvation compared with the PC-hydrolyzing activity in Fig. 1B. The DAG-producing activity was not affected by the addition of n-BuOH, although PA production from PC was suppressed in part under this condition (data not shown). Therefore, PLD activity is not significantly induced by phosphate limitation. Indeed, Northern blot analyses showed that five representative PLDs so far cloned from Arabidopsis (PLDα1, PLDβ1, PLDγ1, PLDδ, and PLDζ1) were not transcriptionally activated upon Pi deficiency (data not shown). According to these results, the high DAG-producing activity in response to Pi deprivation is mainly mediated not by PLD but by PLC. Although two PLCs have been cloned and characterized in Arabidopsis, they are categorized as phosphoinositide-specific PLCs (PI-PLC) that have substrate preference for phosphoinositides, not for constitutive phospholipids such as PC (CITATION, CITATION). This strongly implied the existence of a novel PLC that could hydrolyze PC.  Identification of Six Putative Homologues of a Bacterial PC-PLC in Arabidopsis—In order to identify the novel PC-hydrolyzing PLC (PC-PLC) in Arabidopsis, we referred to the bacterial PC-PLCs. To date, several types of PC-PLC have been cloned and characterized from a wide variety of bacteria (CITATION). Among them, homologous genes to that of Ralstonia solanacearum or Mycobacterium tuberculosis were found in the Arabidopsis genome as well as that of other higher plants. Based on the amino acid sequence similarity to Ralstonian PC-PLC (protein accession number NP_518440), six putative PLCs were newly identified in Arabidopsis using a BLAST data base search provided by TAIR (available on the World Wide Web at www.arabidopsis.org/). They were numerically named A. thaliana nonspecific phospholipase C1 to -6 (AtNPC1 to -6) by MIPS code number (Table I). These NPCs are ∼60-kDa proteins consisting of 514–538 amino acid residues. NPC1 and NPC2 are located on chromosome I and II, respectively, whereas others are on chromosome III. In particular, NPC3, -4, and -5 are positioned in tandem. The amino acid identities among these isogenes vary from 52.8% (NPC3 and NPC6) to 64.2% (NPC3 and NPC4) except for a prominently higher identity of 84.7% between NPC4 and NPC5. A multiple alignment of AtNPCs and bacterial PC-PLC (M. tuberculosis, Swissprot accession number P95246) (CITATION) revealed that there are three domains highly conserved among bacteria and plants, but none corresponded to any known motifs (Fig. 2). Comparison of the domain organization of AtNPCs with that of PI-PLC showed that there are no domains similar to the X,Y-domains or EF-hand motif in PI-PLC. Furthermore, a Ca2+-binding or lipid-binding motif, such as the C2 domain, PX/PH domains, or IYIENQFF motif in the Arabidopsis PLD family was not found by data base search (MOTIF; available on the World Wide Web at motif.genome.ad.jp). Hydropathy plots of NPC1 to -6 revealed no apparent membrane-spanning domains, suggesting that they are soluble or membrane-associated proteins. Among the six isozymes, NPC1, -2, and -6 have putative transit peptides that were predicted to be signal peptide for the secretory pathway by the TargetP program (available on the World Wide Web at www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/). The Massively Parallel Signature Sequencing data base (available on the World Wide Web at mpss.udel.edu/at/GeneAnalysis.php/) showed that several NPCs had relatively high expression levels in nonphotosynthetic organs: NPC1 in floral organs, NPC6 in floral organs and siliques, and NPC3/4 in roots. The expression levels of NPC2 and -5 are too low to discern significant differences among organs. Unlike PI-PLC that hydrolyzes only a small portion of membrane lipids, PC-PLC is capable of hydrolyzing the major component of cellular membranes. Since nonphotosynthetic organs like flowers have considerably high membrane lipid biosynthetic activities (CITATION, CITATION), some of these NPCs might play roles in the lipid turnover or membrane degradation in such organs.  [[TABLE]]  [[FIGURE]]  Expression of NPC4 Was Induced in Response to Pi Limitation—To clarify whether gene expression of these putative PLCs is induced during Pi starvation, Northern blot analysis was conducted with Pi-starved plants. As shown in Fig. 3, only expression of NPC4 was markedly induced upon Pi starvation. This induction was detected both in roots and shoots (data not shown), although stronger PC-hydrolyzing activity was observed in roots (Fig. 1A). The analysis further revealed that this induction was observed when Pi concentration in the medium fell to less than 0.1 mm (Fig. 3A). A time course experiment showed that NPC4 was highly induced 6 days after Pi starvation (Fig. 3B), which matched well that of Pi deficiency-inducible galactolipid synthase genes such as MGD2/3 (CITATION). These results suggest that NPC4 is a strong candidate for a Pi starvation-inducible PC-PLC.  [[FIGURE]]  NPC4 Encoded a Functional PC-PLC That Prefers PC for the Substrate in a Ca2+-independent Manner—To ascertain whether the NPC4 gene encodes a functionally active PLC, NPC4 protein was expressed in E. coli. Truncated NPC4 polypeptide (Δ-NPC4), which was made to raise the NPC4 antibody, was used to discern the background PC-PLC activity of E. coli. The results of the expression experiments showed that NPC4 had significant DAG-producing activity from PC, whereas the negative control had only a trace amount (Fig. 4). Although NPC4 also hydrolyzed PE, the other major membrane phospholipid, it showed substrate preference for PC. This agreed with the fact that PC was decreased more significantly than any other membrane phospholipids in Pi-starved roots (CITATION). As for PA, no activity was detected. These results suggest that NPC4 belongs to a phosphodiesterase family that can hydrolyze PC and PE but not PA. Because PIP2 is a primary substrate for plant PI-PLC, we further examined whether NPC4 hydrolyzes PIP2. As seen in Fig. 4, NPC4 showed very low activity for PIP2 (<10% of PC-hydrolyzing activity), suggesting that NPC4 has different substrate selectivity from PI-PLC (CITATION, CITATION). Next, we analyzed the effect of divalent cations on the enzyme activity, since many plant phospholipases are characterized as Ca2+-dependent enzymes. We first tested whether NPC4 activity can be affected by the addition of EGTA (2 mm) and found that EGTA did not inhibit but instead increased the activity (Fig. 4). This result suggests that NPC4 does not require Ca2+ for activity. To address why the addition of EGTA slightly increased NPC4 activity, we examined effects of divalent cations to NPC4 activity. The result showed that whereas 1 mm Ca2+, Mg2+, or Cu2+ did not affect the activity, Co2+, Mn2+, and Zn2+ severely (about 70%) inhibited it. These results imply that the addition of EGTA might chelate some of these inhibitory divalent cations in the crude extract, resulting in the increase of NPC4 activity slightly. According to these results, NPC4 was shown to encode a functional PC-PLC that possesses different substrate selectivity from PI-PLC in a Ca2+-independent manner.  [[FIGURE]]  NPC4 Was Enriched in Plasma Membranes—Because NPC4 is thought to be involved in the hydrolysis of membrane phospholipid where it sits, its subcellular localization was analyzed. Whole Arabidopsis plants that suffered 10-day Pi starvation were used for fractionation, and NPC4 protein was detected with an anti-NPC4 antibody. As can be seen in Fig. 5A, NPC4 and PC-PLC activity were both highly enriched in the microsomal fraction, whereas they were hardly detectable in intact plastid fraction. Taking the hydropathy profile of amino acid sequence into consideration, NPC4 is a membrane-associated protein localized in extraplastidic membranes. To further analyze localization, plasma membranes were purified from the microsomal fraction, which resulted in further enrichment of NPC4 protein and PC-PLC activity, as well as PAQ, a marker protein for plasma membranes (Fig. 5B). This result shows that NPC4 is mainly localized to the plasma membrane. Plasma membranes are known to be abundant in PC and PE, the substrates for NPC4 and the lipids that are degraded upon Pi starvation (CITATION). These results suggest that NPC4 is involved in the degradation of plasma membrane-localized phospholipids.  [[FIGURE]]  Disruption of NPC4 Strongly Affected the Activation of PC Hydrolysis during Pi Starvation—To analyze whether NPC4 plays a role in PC-hydrolyzing activity during Pi starvation, transferred DNA (T-DNA)-tagged npc4 mutants were isolated. The first mutant allele, npc4-1, was screened from a massive T-DNA mutant superpool provided by Kazusa DNA Research Institute (Chiba, Japan) whereas the second one, npc4-2, was obtained from the SALK Institute (San Diego, CA) (CITATION). Both were confirmed to be homozygous mutants by PCR amplification with specific primers for the NPC4 gene and border sequence of T-DNA. DNA sequencing of the border revealed that both lines had a T-DNA insertion in the NPC4 gene, npc4-1 in the second intron and npc4-2 in the fifth exon (Fig. 6A). To ascertain the defect of NPC4 expression by the insertions, Northern blot analysis was carried out with both mutants under Pi starvation. Even in the Pi-starved condition, however, NPC4 gene expression was not detectable in both mutants (Fig. 6B). We also conducted Western blot analysis and found that NPC4 protein was undetectable in Pi-starved npc4 mutants (Fig. 6C). According to these results, npc4-1 and npc4-2 are null mutants of NPC4 gene.  [[FIGURE]]  When we analyzed the PC-hydrolyzing activity of these mutants, induction upon Pi deprivation could not be observed compared with that of wild type plants (Fig. 6D). The activity in the mutants was almost as low as that observed in Pi-replete wild type plants, indicating that the increased PC-hydrolyzing activity upon Pi starvation is attributable to NPC4. To evaluate whether the NPC4-mediated pathway is primarily involved in the DGDG accumulation, we further analyzed the lipid contents of Pi-starved npc4-1. The result showed that membrane lipid composition, as well as the respective fatty acid profiles, was not significantly changed by the disruption of NPC4, although a slight decrease in DGDG was observed (Fig. 7 and Table II). This alteration suggests possible involvement of NPC4 in the DGDG accumulation. However, since the change was not obvious, there must be other contributors of DAG for DGDG synthesis during Pi starvation. To support this idea, we analyzed gene expression of other NPCs in the Pi-starved npc4 mutants but found no induction of other NPC isogene expressions (data not shown). Analysis of PLD activity using n-BuOH in the mutants resulted in no activation in npc4-1 (data not shown). Thus, there is no alternative induction of PLC/PLD. It was therefore confirmed that the PC-hydrolyzing activity that is up-regulated upon Pi deprivation is largely attributable to NPC4, although it is unlikely to be a major factor for DGDG accumulation.  [[FIGURE]]  [[TABLE]] 
!~MM~! Plant Material and Treatments—A. thaliana (Columbia-0) was used in this study. For Pi deprivation experiments, plants were prepared according to Härtel et al. (CITATION). In brief, seeds were germinated on Murashige and Skoog medium (CITATION) under continuous light at 22 °C. Ten-day-old plants were transferred onto either Pi-deprived or replete medium and grown for the necessary duration. For subcellular fractionation, 10-day-old seedlings were subjected to Pi starvation for another 10 days in a liquid Murashige and Skoog medium.  Assay for Phospholipid-hydrolyzing Activity—Total proteins of each sample were extracted with assay buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 7.3), 50 mm NaCl, 5% glycerol). Protein concentration in the enzyme extracts was quantified by the method of Bensadoun and Weinstein (CITATION) with bovine serum albumin as a standard. Fifty microliters of protein extract was mixed with 100 μl of substrate solution and 50 μl of assay buffer. The substrate solution was prepared as follows. Forty-five nanocuries of l-3-PC, 1,2-di[1-14C]palmitoyl (PerkinElmer Life Sciences) was dispersed together with 18 nmol of l-3-PC, 1,2-dipalmitoyl, in 100 μl of suspension buffer (250 mm Tris-HCl (pH 7.3), 0.25% (w/v) deoxycholate). As for phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), PA, or phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2), l-3-PE, 1-palmitoyl-2-[1-14C]linoleoyl (Amersham Biosciences), l-3-PA[glycerol-14C(U)], 1,2-dipalmitoyl, (PerkinElmer Life Sciences) or PIP2, myo-inositol-2-3H, (PerkinElmer Life Sciences) together with l-3-PE, dipalmitoyl, l-3-PA, dipalmitoyl, or PIP2, respectively, were used. For assays in the presence of EGTA or n-butyl alcohol (n-BuOH), 50 μl of EGTA or n-BuOH dissolved in the assay buffer was added instead of assay buffer to make the final concentration 2 mm (EGTA) or 0.75% (v/v; n-BuOH), respectively. The assay was initiated by vigorous vortex of protein extract and substrate solution, and the mixture was incubated at 37 °C for 1 h. The reaction was stopped by vigorous vortex with 0.5 ml of ethyl acetate and centrifuged twice at 1,500 × g for 5 min with 0.5 ml of 0.45% NaCl. The upper layer was dried and dissolved in 40 μl of chloroform/methanol (2:1, v/v) for one-dimensional TLC analyses. The product solutions were developed in petroleum ether/ethyl ether/acetic acid (50:50:1, v/v/v) for DAG isolation and ethyl acetate/iso-octane/formic acid/water (13:2:3:10, v/v/v/v) for isolation of PA, phosphatidylbutanol (PBu), or other polar lipids. Radioactive spots were quantitatively analyzed by Image Plate (Fuji Photofilm, Tokyo, Japan) and Image Analyzer (Storm; Amersham Biosciences). For assay with PIP2, incubation was stopped with ethyl acetate 10 min after the addition of enzyme, the lower layer of reaction product was extracted, and radioactivity was measured by scintillation counting.  Enzyme Activity Assay of NPC4 Expressed in E. coli—NPC4 was amplified by PCR using LA-Taq DNA polymerase (TaKaRa, Tokyo, Japan) and specific primers designed for NPC4 (AGGCCTATGATCGAGACGACCAAAGGC and AGGCCTTTCAATCATGGCGAATAAAGCAAGAG). The PCR product was cloned into pPICT2 vector (CITATION) by a TA cloning method to screen a clone with correct nucleic acid sequence. Then the fragment was further cloned into pET24b(+) expression vector (Novagen, Madison, WI) and transformed into Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) (Novagen, Madison, WI). When the A600 of E. coli culture reached around 0.4, the culture was treated with 1 mm isopropyl β-d-thiogalactopyranoside and incubated for 12 h at 20 °C to induce the expression of NPC4. Cells were collected by centrifugation (15,000 × g, 1 min) and suspended in the assay buffer to lyse the cells by sonication (output 2, duty 60, 3 s, five times; Ultrasonic Disruptor UD-201; TOMY, Tokyo, Japan). The lysed cell suspension was centrifuged (1,500 × g, 10 min), and supernatant was used for an enzyme activity assay as described above.  Northern Blot Hybridization—Total RNA was prepared from A. thaliana grown either on Pi-deprived or -replete medium using the RNA-easy preparation kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). Two micrograms of RNAs were run in 20 mm MOPS (pH 7.0), 1.25% agarose gel and transferred to a Hybond-N membrane (Amersham Biosciences). The membranes were probed with [α-32P]dCTP-labeled DNA that specifically recognizes each NPC. Hybridization was carried out at 65 °C with Church phosphate buffer (CITATION), and probed membranes were washed twice with 0.2× SSC, 0.1% SDS at 65 °C for 15 min. Hybridized RNA bands were visualized by Image Plate (Fuji Photofilm, Tokyo, Japan) and an Image Analyzer (Storm; Amersham Biosciences).  Preparation of Anti-NPC4 Antibody and Western Blot Analyses—To avoid a cross-detection with NPC5, which shows markedly high amino acid similarity to NPC4, a polypeptide consisting of the C-terminal 120 amino acid residues of NPC4 was used to raise an anti-NPC4 polyclonal antibody in rabbits. A polynucleotide sequence that corresponds to the polypeptide was amplified with specific primers (CATATGGGGACAATGGCAAAAGAAAATGCA and CTCGAGATCATGGCGAATAAAGCAAGAGAA) and cloned into pET24a(+) to express it as a His-tagged polypeptide in E. coli BL21 (DE3). Cells were lysed, and supernatant was purified with Ni2+-nitrilotriacetic acid matrix (Invitrogen). The purified protein was further separated by SDS-PAGE to eliminate any minor contamination. Four milligrams of purified polypeptide was used to raise a rabbit polyclonal antibody (Kitayama Labes, Nagano, Japan).  For Western blot analyses, 50 μg of proteins were separated by 12.5% acrylamide SDS-PAGE and transferred to a PROTORAN nitrocellulose membrane (Schleicher & Schuell). NPC4 was detected with the antibody at a 1:1,000 dilution by using a secondary antibody coupled to alkaline phosphatase. Preimmune sera gave no signal. For plasma membrane marker, plasma membrane aquaporin (PAQ) antibody (CITATION) was used at a 1:1,000 dilution.  Isolation of Plasma Membrane—Cellular membranes were prepared as described previously with minor modifications (CITATION). Liquid-grown Arabidopsis plants that suffered 10-day Pi starvation were homogenized in a mortar with 2 ml of homogenization buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 7.3), 50 mm NaCl, 15% glycerol, 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 1 mm dithiothreitol). Homogenates were filtrated through Miracloth (Calbiochem) and centrifuged at 5,000 × g for 5 min. The supernatant was further centrifuged at 125,000 × g for 30 min to pellet microsomes. The remaining supernatant contains primarily soluble proteins. An aqueous two-phase system (CITATION) was used to separate plasma membrane from microsomes. Total microsomes were resuspended in 500 μl of SPK buffer (0.33 m sucrose, 5 mm potassium phosphate, and 3 mm KCl, pH 7.8) and added to a 4-g phase system prepared in the same buffer. The final composition of the phase system was 6.3% (w/w) dextran (Mr 413,000) and 6.3% (w/w) polyethylene glycol (Mr 3,350). After thorough mixing by inverting the tube 20–30 times, the phases were separated by centrifugation at 1,400 × g for 5 min. The upper phase, enriched in plasma membrane, was transferred to a clean tube and repartitioned twice with lower phase. Fresh upper phase was centrifuged at 125,000 × g for 30 min again to pellet plasma membrane. All procedures were conducted at 4 °C.  Isolation of Intact Chloroplast—Intact chloroplasts were isolated basically according to Douce and Joyard (CITATION) with minor modification described by Yamaryo et al. (CITATION).  Lipid Analysis—Lipid analysis was performed as described by Nakamura et al. (CITATION). Briefly, total lipids were extracted according to Bligh and Dyer (CITATION) and separated by two-dimensional TLC with the following solvent systems: chloroform/methanol/7 n ammonia (120:80:8, v/v/v) and chloroform/methanol/acetic acid/water (170:20:15:3, v/v/v/v). Each lipid was collected separately from TLC plates and then hydrolyzed and methylesterified together with 100 μl of 1 mm pentadecanoic acid (internal standard) by 5% HCl in methanol at 85 °C for 150 min to obtain fatty acid methyl esters. Fatty acid composition was determined with gas chromatography (GC14 gas chromatograph, Shimadzu, Kyoto, Japan; ULBON HR-SS-10 capillary column, 25 m × 0.25 mm, Shinwa Chemical Industries, Kyoto, Japan), and then the amounts of each lipid were calculated. 
