!~ABS~! An Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) L. Heynh mutant deficient in an isoform of adenylate kinase (ADK; At2g37250) was isolated by reverse genetics. It contains a T-DNA insertion 377 bp downstream of the start point of transcription. The mutant lacks At2g37250 transcripts and has a mild reduction in total cellular ADK activity. Green fluorescent protein-fusion based cellular localization experiments, carried out with the full-length At2g37250, suggested a plastidial localization for this isoform. In keeping with this observation, organelle isolation experiments revealed that the loss in ADK activity was confined to the inner plastid. This plastid stroma ADK gene was found to be expressed tissue constitutively but at much higher levels in illuminated leaves. Phenotypic and biochemical analyses of the mutant revealed that it exhibited higher amino acid biosynthetic activity in the light and was characterized by an enhanced root growth. When the mutant was subjected to either continuous light or continuous dark, growth phenotypes were also observed in the shoots. While the levels of adenylates were not much altered in the leaves, the pattern of change observed in the roots was consistent with the inhibition of an ATP-consuming reaction. Taken together, these data suggest a role for the plastid stromal ADK in the coordination of metabolism and growth, but imply that the exact importance of this isoform is tissue dependent.
!~RES~! In silico screening of the Arabidopsis genome with the plastidial ADK isoform of potato (CITATION) revealed nine genes of very high sequence homology (e-values under e−20). When analysis was performed at the nucleotide level, these genes formed four phylogenetic clusters (Fig. 1A). The majority of these genes are presently annotated as putative ADKs (or even as unknown proteins; http://mips.gsf.de/proj/thal/db/); their transcription has, however, been verified by microarray experimentation (CITATION). The predicted ADK-encoding gene, At2g37250, fell into the same phylogenetic group as the potato plastidial isoform of ADK− with which it showed 76% identity (Fig. 1A). Despite these similarities, it is important to note that, as yet, none of the Arabidopsis genes have been functionally characterized and that the subcellular localizations presented here were determined merely on the basis of bioinformatic prediction (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] In order to confirm the localization of the protein encoded by At2g37250, the complete coding region was fused, at the carboxyl-terminal end, to an enhanced GFP (EGFP) and transiently expressed in leaf cells (CITATION; Fig. 1B). In these cells EGFP fluorescence was detected coincident with chlorophyll autofluorescence (Fig. 1B, ii and iii), suggesting a plastidial location of the protein. When taken together with the structural similarity of this gene to the plastidial isoform of ADK from potato, this subcellular localization provides compelling molecular evidence that this gene is the Arabidopsis ortholog to StpAdK. A plant carrying a T-DNA insertion within At2g37250 (from here on named Atpadk1) was identified by PCR screening of the T-DNA insertional-mutant population GABI-Kat (CITATION). A plant homozygous for the mutation was identified by PCR screening of a segregating population. Sequencing of a PCR fragment encompassing the T-DNA/genomic DNA junction revealed that this line carries an insertion within the coding sequence (second exon) of the Atpadk1 gene (Fig. 2A). Segregation analysis of the selectable marker (data not shown) and Southern-blot hybridization (Fig. 2B) indicated that this mutant carries a single T-DNA insertion. [[FIGURE]] Expression analysis of Atpadk1 in different tissues of wild-type plants showed that the transcript is present in all the organs tested, suggesting a tissue-constitutive expression of the gene (Fig. 3A) with maximal expression observed in floral tissue. The homozygous Atpadk1 mutant, however, completely lacked expression (Fig. 3A). Expression of Atpadk1 was also studied throughout the diurnal cycle in wild-type plants grown for 28 d in a 16-h-light/8-h-dark regime followed by 2 d of growth in which plants were either (1) maintained in the same growth conditions, (2) subjected to continuous light, or (3) subjected to continuous darkness (Fig. 3B). There was a general tendency of increased gene expression in the light, which is consistent with previous observations in rice and potato (CITATION; CITATION), and, consequently, a depressed level of expression during the dark period. However, Atpadk1 appears to be expressed throughout the diurnal cycle (Fig. 3B). On subjection to continuous light, an altered periodicity in Atpadk1 expression was observed with maximal expression coincident with what was the middle of the dark period. In continuous darkness a faint band is observed throughout the time course. [[FIGURE]] We assayed the enzyme activity in both total cell extracts and isolated chloroplasts of the wild type and mutant (Table I). We observed that approximately 80% to 90% of the ADK activity is localized to the plastid in Arabidopsis. This is quantitatively very similar to the distribution observed previously in tobacco cells and leaves (CITATION). When assayed in the absence of detergent, there was only a minor (and not significant) decrease in both total cellular and plastidial ADK activity of the homozygous mutant. However, in the presence of detergent, the plastidial activity measured in the mutant was 50% of that measured in the wild type. ADK activity in leaves from Col-0 and adk1−/adk1− mutant plants Arabidopsis leaves from 3-week-old plants were sampled after 12 h in dark, and chloroplasts were isolated as described by CITATION. ADK activity was measured in both the plastidial fraction and the supernatant with and without Triton (0.01%) following the protocol described by CITATION). Values are expressed in nmol min−1 mg protein−1 ± se and are means from three replicates. Numbers in bold type denote significant differences determined by the Student's t test (P < 0.05) from Col-0. We next grew the mutant in soil under different light regiments (long day, continuous day, and continuous night) and scored morphological parameters of the aerial parts of the plants. Mutant plants growing in a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod were indistinguishable from those of the control. However, after 2 d in continuous light, the total aerial biomass accumulated by the mutant was 40% higher than the wild type. Intriguingly, a contrasting result was achieved following 2 d in continuous dark (Fig. 4A). In normal photoperiod and continuous light, both the wild type and mutants developed to the reproductive stage synchronically, but in darkness the mutant plants showed a delay of about 2 to 3 d to reach the flowering phase. [[FIGURE]] In order to analyze root growth, we germinated seeds on vertical agar plates and recorded root length every 3 to 4 d. As shown in Figure 4B, the root lengths of the homozygous mutant plants were between 20% and 40% longer than that those of Col-0. We next evaluated the levels of the major leaf carbohydrates through a diurnal period. In long-day conditions, the Atpadk1 mutant clearly accumulated little or no Suc despite containing similar levels as the wild type at the beginning of the light period (Fig. 5A). There was, however, little difference between the genotypes with respect to starch content (Fig. 5D). Given that the ADK reaction is intimately associated with the level of ATP, we chose to alter the production of this metabolite by subjecting both the wild type and Atpadk1 mutant to continuous light for a period of 2 d before sampling. Although both genotypes displayed differences in the patterns of Suc and starch accumulation (Fig. 5, B and E), there was surprisingly little difference between the genotypes under these conditions (with the exception of a significant decrease in the level of starch in the mutant at the end of the experiment). Similarly, under continuous darkness there was little difference in the levels of Suc (Fig. 5C) or starch (Fig. 5F). The Glc and Fru levels in leaves showed similar patterns when growing the plants under both continuous light and darkness, and no differences between both genotypes were observed (data not shown), except under conditions of continuous darkness when the Glc contents showed a marked increment at 12 am in leaves from the mutant plants (1.26 ± 0.35 and 5.31 ± 0.72 μmol Glc g fresh weight (FW)−1 ± se for Col-0 and Atpadk1, respectively). [[FIGURE]] We next determined the levels of nucleotides in plants growing under the various light regimes described above. For this purpose, we determined the levels of ATP, ADP, ADP-Glc, UTP, UDP, and UDP-Glc by HPLC of trichloroacetic acid extracts of leaves from both genotypes as described by CITATION. The levels of these metabolites were surprisingly indistinguishable between the two genotypes grown under the normal photoperiod (Fig. 6). In contrast, following 2 d in continuous light, the levels of both ADP and ATP were elevated in the mutant with respect to those observed in the wild-type control, whereas in plants that were subjected to continuous dark for 2 d, the ADP-Glc level and the deduced ATP/ADP ratio were elevated in the mutant with respect to the wild type. The levels of the uridinylates were, however, invariant between the genotypes in all light regimes tested. [[FIGURE]] For analysis of root material, we grew the two genotypes in hydroponic conditions and collected root samples for nucleotide and amino acid determination. Given that the levels of nucleotides were so low in the roots, it was difficult to detect some of the nucleotides following the HPLC method used above. Therefore, we also used spectrophotometric cycling assays to determine the levels of ATP and ADP (CITATION). The levels of ADP and total adenylates were significantly lower in the mutant while the ATP/ADP ratio was higher, suggesting that the roots had an impaired energy status (Table II). As was observed in the leaves from this mutant, there were no differences in the root uridinylate status (although it should be noted that in this instance we were not able to detect UTP). Nucleotide levels in roots of 3-week-old plants of the Arabidopsis genotypes Roots were harvested 6 h into the photoperiod from hydroponic cultures as described in “Materials and Methods.” Samples were frozen immediately in liquid N2 and extracted in trichloroacetic acid. Values are means ± se from four to six plants per genotype. Values set in bold type indicate those determined by the Student's t test to be significantly different (P < 0.05) from Col-0. Given that the plastid is the predominant location for the biosynthesis of many amino acids (for example Arg, Met, His, Trp, Lys, Iso, Phe, and Tyr) and that these processes carry a heavy ATP burden (CITATION), we were particularly interested to investigate the amino acid composition in leaves of the Atpadk1 plants. Figure 7 shows the results obtained following determination of the amino acid composition of leaves in the middle of the light (Fig. 7A) and dark (Fig. 7B) periods of the diurnal cycle. The levels of almost all amino acids are marginally higher in the mutant plants (significantly so in the cases of Asp, Gly, Arg, and Phe; Fig. 7A). In sharp contrast, with the exception of elevated Iso contents (Fig. 7B), the amino acid levels are not significantly different between genotypes during the dark period. [[FIGURE]] The amino acid contents of root material from plants grown in hydroponic conditions were also analyzed (Table III). The mutant displayed a tendency of decreased root amino acid content under long-day conditions when assessed on a per gram FW basis; however, this was only statistically significant in the cases of Gly, β-Ala, and γ-aminobutyric acid (and in no instance when analyzed on a per plant basis; see Supplemental Table I, available at www.plantphysiol.org). However, when the plants were subjected to continuous light for 2 d, the levels of amino acids in the roots of the mutant were significantly higher than those of the wild-type control. This was true for all the measured amino acids, with the exception of Gly, Thr, Met, Trp, Phe, Ile, and Lys, and it was particularly pronounced in the cases of Arg, Val, and Leu. Somewhat intriguingly, the pattern of change in the mutant following transfer to continuous light appears to be the opposite of that observed in the wild type. In contrast, the change of both genotypes following transfer to continuous dark was largely conserved, with the root amino acid content generally increasing in both cases. However, the amino acids Gln, Thr, Ala, and Met did not follow this trend since they were either decreased or unaltered in the mutant with respect to plants grown under long-day conditions and as such were present at significantly lower levels than those found in the wild-type roots subjected to continuous darkness. Amino acid content in Arabidopsis roots Wild type (Col-0) and adk−1/adk−1 plants were grown under various light regimes, and after 2 weeks roots were harvested, extracted, and were quantified by HPLC as described in “Materials and Methods.” Data are means of replicates ± se from six individual plants and presented as nmol g FW−1. Values in bold type denote those determined to be significantly different (P < 0.05) from Col-0 by the Student's t test. No differences were observed in root carbohydrate content of the two genotypes, with the exception that the starch level in Atpadk1 roots was significantly lower than that of the wild-type control genotype under continuous light conditions (Fig. 8). Given that seeds are the major storage organs in Arabidopsis, we also determined the levels of starch and total protein in mature seeds from six homozygous mutant plants and their corresponding controls. Mature seeds of Col-0 and Atpadk1 contained 26.3 ± 0.8 and 24.4 ± 0.6 μmol of starch (expressed as Glc equivalents per mg dry weight−1 ± se), respectively, while the total protein content of these seeds was 62.7 ± 7.6 and 73.4 ± 8.9 mg (expressed per g dry weight ± se) for Col-0 and Atpadk1 genotypes, respectively. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seeds ecotype Colombia and the accession GABI 300-A04 were obtained from the GABI-Kat collection (Max-Planck-Institut für Züchtungsforschung, Cologne, Germany). The seeds were germinated on Murashige and Skoog media (CITATION) containing 2% Suc and were grown in a growth chamber (250 μmol photons m−2 s−1, 22°C) under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark regime before transfer to soil, where (unless otherwise stated) they were grown under the same conditions. Screening and selection within the mutant population was done following the GABI-Kat instructions (http://www.mpiz-koeln.mpg.de/GABI-Kat/General_Information/GABI-Kat-sul-selection.html). Approximately 100 seeds of the T3 generation were sterilized and sown on petri dishes containing Murashige and Skoog media supplemented with 11.25 mg/L of Sulfadiazin (4-amino-N-[2-pyrimidinyl] benzene-sulfonamide-Na; Sigma-Aldrich Chemie GmbH, Deisenhofen, Germany). After 24 h in the dark at 4°C, plates were transferred to a long-day regime, and selection was carried out on the criteria of survival until 7 d after germination. The frequency of segregation (1:16) corresponds to that expected following a single insertion event. Resistant lines were subsequently screened for zygosity status by PCR analysis using a pair of primers annealing on the second and third exon of the At2g37250 gene (ADKat5, 5′tcggagattgtaaatcagg3′, and ADKat3, 5′cattaaaacccttgccac3′) and a third primer annealing of the left border of the T-DNA (http://www.mpiz-koeln.mpg.de/GABI-Kat/General_Information/GABI-Kat-pAC161T-DNAmapPr.html; T-DNA, 5′catttggacgtgaatgtag3′). Unless otherwise stated, all biochemical and physiological measurements have been carried out with T4 homozygous plants. Genomic DNA (10 μg) from Col-0 and GABI 300-A04 was isolated and digested with three different restriction enzymes (EcoRI, BamHI, and NdeI) lacking recognition sites on the T-DNA fragment used as a probe. Southern blotting was performed as described by CITATION. The blot was hybridized with an approximately 500-bp fragment, comprising the left border of the T-DNA, using standard conditions (CITATION) at 60°C. Washes were carried out at low stringency (2× SSC and 1× SSC, 0.1% SDS at 60°C). Total RNA was isolated using the commercially available Trizol kit (Gibco BRL, Karlsruhe, Germany) according to the manufacturer's suggestions. The RNA (15 μg) was then size fractionated on a 1% agarose MOPS-formaldehyde gel prior to transfer to a nylon membrane filter. Filters were subsequently probed with a 259-bp cDNA fragment amplified by PCR using the gene-specific primers detailed above. This fragment spans 138 and 121 nucleotides of the second and third exons of the gene, respectively. Following PCR amplification, the identity of this fragment was confirmed by sequencing and blasting against the complete Arabidopsis genome. These searches showed that this gene exhibited less than 59% homology to other putative ADK-encoding genes. Hybridization of northern blots was carried out using this fragment as a probe and following standard protocols (CITATION). Filters were washed once for 20 min at 42°C in 2× SSC, 0.1% SDS; once for 20 min at 42°C in 0.5× SSC, 0.1% SDS; and finally for 20 min at 65°C in 0.1× SSC, 0.1% SDS. After washing, the filters were exposed to x-ray films (Xomat; Eastman-Kodak, Rochester, NY) for 1 to 2 d. The ADK gene (At2g37250) was amplified from Arabidopsis Col-0 leaf cDNA by PCR using the following primers 5′caccatggcgagattagtgc3′ and 5′tgctgcgacagactgtttc3′. The PCR fragment was recombined into the entry vector pENTRsd_TOPO (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) making use of the Gateway recombination system. Subsequently, the ADK gene was recombined into the destination vector pK7WGF2 encoding a C-terminal EGFP, driven by cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (CITATION). The plasmid was transiently expressed in leaf cells using PDS-1000 particle delivery system (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA). Fluorescent signals were observed by laser-scanning confocal microscope (Leica DM IRBE microscope, TCS SPII confocal scanner; Leica, Wetzlar, Germany). Images were generated using processing software from Leica. The activity of ADK was measured following the protocol of CITATION) in leaf material and chloroplast preparations that had been isolated as detailed by CITATION. Contamination of these preparations by cytosolic marker enzymes did not exceed 10% in either the wild-type or mutant tissue. Tissue samples were rapidly frozen in liquid nitrogen. Subsequently the samples were extracted either in ethanol (for determination of carbohydrate and amino acid contents) or in trichloroacetic acid (for the determination of nucleotides) as detailed by CITATION. The carbohydrate contents were determined spectrophotometrically as described by CITATION, while the amino acid contents were determined using the HPLC protocol described by CITATION. The levels of nucleotides and nucleosides in leaves were determined using the HPLC protocol defined by CITATION while in roots were determined by a cycling assay as described in CITATION. The recoveries of HPLC protocols for nucleotides have been documented previously (see, for example, CITATION; CITATION). Recoveries of ADP and ATP for root material following the cycling assays were determined to be 82% and 88%, respectively. The t tests have been performed using the algorithm embedded into Microsoft Excel (Microsoft, Seattle). The term significant is used in the text only when the change in question has been confirmed to be significant (P < 0.05) with the t test.
