!~ABS~! Proline transporters (ProTs) mediate transport of the compatible solutes Pro, glycine betaine, and the stress-induced compound γ-aminobutyric acid. A new member of this gene family, AtProT3, was isolated from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), and its properties were compared to AtProT1 and AtProT2. Transient expression of fusions of AtProT and the green fluorescent protein in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) protoplasts revealed that all three AtProTs were localized at the plasma membrane. Expression in a yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) mutant demonstrated that the affinity of all three AtProTs was highest for glycine betaine (Km = 0.1–0.3 mm), lower for Pro (Km = 0.4–1 mm), and lowest for γ-aminobutyric acid (Km = 4–5 mm). Relative quantification of the mRNA level using real-time PCR and analyses of transgenic plants expressing the β-glucuronidase (uidA) gene under control of individual AtProT promoters showed that the expression pattern of AtProTs are complementary. AtProT1 expression was found in the phloem or phloem parenchyma cells throughout the whole plant, indicative of a role in long-distance transport of compatible solutes. β-Glucuronidase activity under the control of the AtProT2 promoter was restricted to the epidermis and the cortex cells in roots, whereas in leaves, staining could be demonstrated only after wounding. In contrast, AtProT3 expression was restricted to the above-ground parts of the plant and could be localized to the epidermal cells in leaves. These results showed that, although intracellular localization, substrate specificity, and affinity are very similar, the transporters fulfill different roles in planta.
!~RES~! A newly identified ProT homolog, At2g36590 (AtProT3), showed the highest homology to AtProT1 (89.9% identity on the amino acid level) and AtProT2 (83.7%). Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the three Arabidopsis ProTs form a subgroup within the ProT branch of the ATF1 (amino acid transporter family 1) gene family (Fig. 1; CITATION; CITATION). Interestingly, ProT members from a single plant species always cluster together, indicating that duplication of the genes was a relatively recent event. In contrast, in the most closely related group of transporters of the ATF family, the At1g08230-like proteins, rice and Arabidopsis proteins group together. Based on their low sequence identity (approximately 30% on the amino acid level) and their different substrate specificity, we designated At1g08230 and homologs as not belonging to the ProT-like proteins (A. Meyer and D. Rentsch, unpublished data). AtProT3 encodes a protein with a molecular mass of 47.6 kD and 9 to 11 predicted transmembrane domains, which is in agreement with predictions for AtProT1 and AtProT2. [[FIGURE]] The intron-exon structure of AtProT1, AtProT2, and AtProT3 is highly conserved, showing seven exons of comparable length. The main difference was found in the length of the first intron, which is considerably longer in AtProT2 (data not shown). The Arabidopsis genome also contains two partial ProT genes on bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clone F19C17 and F5A13 that are highly homologous to AtProT1 and AtProT2, respectively. As the conserved region on BAC F19C17 is relatively short and the ProT homolog on BAC F5A13 contains point mutations leading to a frameshift and an additional stop codon, both homologs do not encode functional Pro transporters. Therefore, in Arabidopsis, only three functional ProTs are present. To discover whether the Arabidopsis ProTs show redundancy of function, the expression patterns and the biochemical properties were compared. To determine whether AtProT3 differs in its substrate specificity from AtProT1 or AtProT2, the AtProT3 cDNA was isolated by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR. Subsequently, AtProT3 was expressed under the control of the strong PMA1 promoter (vector pDR195) in the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) strain 22574d (CITATION; CITATION). This strain carries mutations in the general amino acid (gap1), Pro (put4), and the GABA (uga4) permeases and thus is unable to grow on citrulline, Pro, or GABA as the sole nitrogen source. As controls, strain 22574d was transformed with the expression vector pDR195, with pDR195 harboring the cDNAs of AtProT1, AtProT2, LeProT1, or the amino acid permease AtAAP2 (CITATION; CITATION). Growth under selective conditions showed that, like AtProT1 and AtProT2, AtProT3 was able to mediate growth on Pro and GABA, but not on citrulline (Fig. 2; data not shown). The ability to mediate transport of GABA and Pro, but not of citrulline, distinguishes AtProT3 from the amino acid permeases of the AAP family (CITATION) and also groups AtProT3 to the ProT family with respect to substrate specificity. [[FIGURE]] To examine whether the AtProTs differ in their kinetic properties, uptake experiments with l-[14C]Pro, [14C]Gly betaine, and [3H]GABA in 22574d cells expressing AtProT1, AtProT2, or AtProT3 were performed. Previous studies described AtProT2 as a transporter with higher affinity for Pro than for GABA (CITATION). However, the affinity of AtProT2 and AtProT1 for Gly betaine, a substrate for LeProT1 from tomato and the ProT homologs from mangrove, as well as the kinetic properties of AtProT3, had not been determined so far (CITATION; CITATION). Transport assays showed that all three AtProTs were able to mediate uptake of labeled Pro, Gly betaine, and GABA. The affinity of all AtProTs was highest for Gly betaine, intermediate for Pro, and lowest for GABA (Table I). The affinity of AtProT1 for Gly betaine was 2 to 2.5 times the affinity of AtProT2 or AtProT3, and the affinity of AtProT1 and AtProT2 for Pro was 2 times that of AtProT3. In contrast, the Km values for GABA were in a similar range for all three transporters. The maximal transport velocities can only be compared for different substrates of a single transporter because transport rates do not only depend on the intrinsic properties of the transport protein, but also on the number of transporters present at the yeast plasma membrane. In general, for all three transporters, higher affinity correlated with lower capacity, and vice versa. For the ProT homologs AmT1 and AmT2 from mangrove, sodium and potassium ions have been shown to enhance transport activity (CITATION). However, no increased AtProT-mediated transport rates could be measured by the addition of sodium chloride to the assay medium (data not shown). Comparison of the affinities of all three AtProTs for Pro, Gly betaine, and GABA The uptake of radiolabeled substrates was determined in 22574d cells expressing AtProT1, AtProT2, or AtProT3. The pH of the assay medium was 4.5. Uptake rates were determined at five different substrate concentrations and the apparent affinities and maximal transport rates were determined. Values represent the mean of at least three experiments ± sd. Functional complementation of the yeast Pro/GABA transport mutant by the AtProTs showed that the protein is localized at the yeast plasma membrane. However, their cellular localization in planta has not been demonstrated so far. Therefore, fusion proteins of AtProTs with green fluorescent protein (GFP) were transiently expressed in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) protoplasts under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (Fig. 3). Fluorescent images obtained by confocal laser-scanning microscopy showed that the signal from the GFP-AtProT1 and GFP-AtProT2 fusion proteins was present as a single fluorescent ring at the periphery of the protoplast, indicative of its localization at the plasma membrane (Fig. 3, A and C). GFP-AtProT3 also localized to the plasma membrane (Fig. 3E) but, in addition, the protoplasts showed some GFP fluorescence on internal membranes. Similar results were obtained for the AtProT-GFP fusions (data not shown). Free GFP localized to the cytosol (Fig. 3G). [[FIGURE]] AtProT3 expression in Arabidopsis was extremely weak and hardly detectable by RNA gel-blot analysis. Relative quantification using real-time PCR, with the ubiquitin mRNA as a reference, demonstrated that AtProT3 was expressed in flowers and to very low levels in leaves and stems (Fig. 4). AtProT3 transcripts could not be detected in roots. Quantification of AtProT1 and AtProT2 mRNA levels confirmed results from RNA gel-blot analyses (CITATION). Expression of AtProT2 in roots was several-fold higher than in other organs, whereas AtProT1 expression was highest in flowers, stems, and roots. In all organs analyzed, the AtProT3 mRNA was the least abundant of all the AtProTs. [[FIGURE]] To study the tissue specificity of AtProT expression throughout plant development and regulation under stress conditions, 5′ upstream regions of the respective genes were isolated and fused to the Escherichia coli β-glucuronidase (GUS; uidA) gene. Arabidopsis was transformed and 53 (AtProT1-GUS), 30 (AtProT2-GUS), and 68 (AtProT3-GUS) independent transgenic lines were analyzed for reporter gene activity. GUS activity was initially analyzed in leaves, flowers, and siliques of Basta-resistant T1 plants and in Basta-resistant seedlings of the T2 generation. For each construct, more than 90% of the independent lines showed very similar patterns of expression, varying only in the intensity of GUS staining. Three representative lines of each construct were used to determine the expression pattern in more detail, using both tissue culture- and soil-grown plants of the T2 generation. Transgenic plants expressing the uidA gene under the control of the AtProT1 promoter showed strong reporter gene activity in the vascular tissue of leaves, petioles, roots, flowers, siliques, and stems of axenically grown seedlings or mature soil-grown plants (Fig. 5). The expression in the vascular tissue strongly indicates that AtProT1 is important for long-distance transport. In leaves, the vascular tissue of both minor and major veins was stained (Fig. 5A). Cross-sections through leaves showed that GUS activity is confined to the phloem or phloem parenchyma cells (Fig. 5F). In addition, the vascular tissue of sepals, petals, and stamens showed reporter gene activity (Fig. 5, B and G). This staining pattern could also be found in siliques showing strong GUS activity in the vascular strands of the carpels and the funiculi, whereas the seeds themselves did not show expression (Fig. 5, C, D, and H). In roots, staining was not detectable in the root tip and was weak in newly emerging lateral roots (Fig. 5, E and I). Cross-sections of roots showed that expression is restricted to phloem or phloem parenchyma cells (Fig. 5J). [[FIGURE]] In both seedlings and mature plants, the AtProT2 promoter directed expression in root tissue (Fig. 6A). In addition, stipules of axenically grown plants showed staining (Fig. 6B). Under normal growth conditions, no GUS activity was observed in other tissues. Macroscopically, GUS activity was detected over the entire root, including root hairs, the root tip, and the root cap (Fig. 6C; data not shown). However, cross-sections of roots showed that AtProT2 expression did not overlap with AtProT1 promoter activity because GUS activity in AtProT2-GUS plants was confined to the epidermis and the cortex cells and absent from the stele (Fig. 6D). AtProT2 mRNA levels were previously shown to be elevated under salt stress (CITATION). We confirmed these findings with independent experiments in this study (data not shown). However, no increase in GUS activity was observed when AtProT2-GUS plants were subjected to different stress treatments such as high salt concentrations, low humidity, or low temperature (data not shown). Also, quantitative GUS assays of salt-treated plants did not reveal significant induction of promoter activity (data not shown). The AtProT2 promoter contains an abscisic acid (ABA)-responsive element (PyACGTGGC), which in other genes has been shown to function as a cis-element in ABA-responsive transcription under water stress (CITATION). However, ABA treatment did not have any effect on AtProT2 promoter activity. Interestingly, AtProT2-GUS activity was induced by mechanical wounding both in detached leaves and in leaves of intact plants, and this effect was increased in the presence of salt (Fig. 6E). [[FIGURE]] The uidA gene under the control of the AtProT3 promoter showed an expression pattern complementary to AtProT1 and AtProT2. Reporter gene expression under the control of the AtProT3 promoter could be detected in leaves, flowers, and siliques; however, it was absent from roots (Fig. 7, A and C), thus confirming the mRNA quantification experiments. In leaves, staining was strongest in younger leaves (Fig. 7A). Very weakly expressing lines showed staining predominantly in hydathodes and trichomes, whereas in lines with stronger expression (approximately 50% of all lines), GUS staining was detectable in the whole leaf blade but absent around the midvein (Fig. 7A). Cross-sections showed that, in leaves, GUS activity under the control of the AtProT3 promoter was confined to the epidermal cells (Fig. 7B) and was higher in the lower epidermis than in the upper epidermis. In flowers, staining was strongest in sepals and petals (Fig. 7, C and D). In siliques, only the carpels were stained. No expression was detectable in seeds (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Specificity of promoter activity was maintained in transgenic tobacco lines. GUS activity was detected in the vascular tissue of leaves and roots in AtProT1-GUS lines, in roots of AtProT2-GUS seedlings, and in the leaf blade of AtProT3-GUS transgenics (data not shown).
!~MM~! For expression analyses, Arabidopsis thaliana L. ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was grown in a controlled growth chamber (CU-36L5; Percival Scientific, Boone, IA) with a day/night temperature of 22°C/18°C and a 16-h/8-h light/dark regime (100 μmol photons m−2 s−1) in axenic culture on solid AM medium (AM medium is 2.16 g Murashige and Skoog salts, 1% (w/v) Suc supplemented with 0.7% (w/v) BiTek agar [DIFCO Laboratories, Sparks, MD]). Alternatively, plants were grown in soil in a controlled growth chamber (AR-75 L; Percival Scientific) at 22°C/18°C, 65% humidity, and a 16-h/8-h light/dark cycle with uniform illumination of 150 μmol photons m−2 s−1. For transformation and selection of transgenic lines, plants were grown in soil in the greenhouse. Greenhouse temperature was maintained at above 10°C and natural illumination was supplemented to provide a minimum photoperiod of 16 h. Plants were transformed by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated (GV2260) gene transfer. Bacteria harboring the constructs were suspended in 0.5× Murashige and Skoog medium containing 5% (w/v) Suc, 0.01% (v/v) Silwet L-77, and 44 nm benzylaminopurine and used for vacuum infiltration (CITATION). Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L. cv SNN) was transformed as described by CITATION and selected on 2 mg L−1 BASTA. Subsequently, the BASTA concentration was increased to 4 mg L−1. The open reading frame (ORF) of AtProT3 was isolated by RT-PCR using primers 5′-acaataaccatttggagagg-3′, 5′-aaatccaactaagaataaatacg-3′, and RNA extracted from roots of Arabidopsis Col-0 as a template. The AtProT3 ORF was cloned in the EcoRV site of pSK and verified by sequencing. For yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) complementation assays, the AtProT3 ORF was transferred to pDR195 using XhoI and SacII (CITATION). AtProT1 and AtProT2 were isolated from pFL61 by cleavage with NotI and inserted into the NotI site of pDR195 (CITATION). The promoters of AtProT1 and 3 were amplified by PCR using genomic DNA of Arabidopsis Col-0 as a template (AtProT1, 2,958-bp fragment, 5′-cttgagcttgaacatatgg-3′, 5′-gtttgctaagagactttctc-3′; AtProT3, 2,555-bp fragment, 5′-tgctaaacagagagcatgg-3′, 5′-gacctctccaaatggttattg-3′). The promoters were cloned into the SmaI site of the binary vector pCB308 (CITATION) and sequenced to confirm that no modifications occurred. The promoter fragment of AtProT2 was isolated by inverse PCR on genomic DNA (digested with BglII and religated) of Arabidopsis Col-0 and cloned into the EcoRV site of pSK (2,419-bp fragment, 5′-tggcaaaagacacattcg-3′, 5′-gtttccgacaagaatctg-3′). Sequencing confirmed the accuracy of the fragment and subsequently the promoter was transferred to the SmaI/XbaI site of pCB308. For translational fusions with GFP, the ORFs of the cDNAs were amplified by PCR and cloned in pUC18-spGFP6 and pUC18-GFP5Tsp for C- and N-terminal fusion proteins (M. Suter-Grotemeyer and D. Rentsch, unpublished data). GFP-AtProT fusions (AtProT1, 5′-gctctagaatgaccgccaccgaag-3′, 5′-ccctcgagttacaaatctgcaaaaacatg-3′; AtProT2, 5′-gctctagaatggatacgagtgaagcaa-3′, 5′-ccctcgagtcaaacatcagcaaaaacatg-3′; AtProT3, 5′-gctctagaatgaactctaagaatcgcat-3′, 5′-ccctcgagttacaaatctgcaaaaacgtg-3′ [ORFs cloned into NheI/SalI site]). AtProT-GFP fusion (AtProT1, 5′-gctctagaatgaccgccaccgaag-3′, 5′-gaagatctagcaaatctgcaaaaacatgga-3′; AtProT2, 5′-gctctagaatggatacgagtgaagcaa-3′, 5′-cggatccttaacatcagcaaaaacatgga-3′; AtProT3, 5′-gctctagaatgaactctaagaatcgcat-3′, 5′-gaagatctagcaaatctgcaaaaacgtgga-3′ [ORFs cloned into SpeI/BglII site]). Sequence identity of all PCR-amplified fragments was verified by sequencing. RNA was extracted using a method based on phenol extraction (CITATION). RT was performed using the RetroScript kit (Ambion, Austin, TX), according to the manufacturer's instructions with oligo(dT) primers and 2 μg of total RNA as template. Relative quantification using real-time PCR was performed on a LightCycler instrument (Roche Diagnostics, Mannheim, Germany). The FastStart DNA Master SYBR green I kit (Roche Diagnostics) was used, according to the manufacturer's instructions, with MgCl2 at a final concentration of 4 mm and 10 pmol of each primer. Primers were designed spanning intron-exon borders to avoid amplification of genomic DNA and allowing specific amplification of the respective AtProT transcripts (AtProT1, 5′-atctctttgcacatatttgcg-3′, 5′-catagcttttgcatagcattc-3′; AtProT2, 5′-ccggaaatacaggccacg-3′, 5′-gtcggacttgcaaaaatatgt-3′; AtProT3, 5′-ttaccgatgtttgcggttgt-3′, 5′-gacttgcaaaaatgtgcaac-3′). Ubiquitin was used as a reference gene (5′-gaatccaccctccacttggtc-3′, 5′-cgtctttcccgttagggtttt-3′). Yeast 22574d (MATα ura3-1, gap1-1, put4-1, uga4-1; CITATION) was transformed according to CITATION, and transformants were selected on nitrogen-free medium supplemented with 20 mg mL−1 of Glc and 1 mg mL−1 of Pro or GABA. For nonselective conditions, the cells were grown on synthetic dextrose minimal medium (CITATION). For standard uptake studies, yeast cells were grown to logarithmic phase in synthetic dextrose minimal medium. Cells were harvested at an OD600nm of 0.5, washed twice in water, and resuspended in buffer A (0.6 m sorbitol and 50 mm potassium phosphate, pH 4.5) to a final OD600nm of 5.5. Prior to the uptake measurements, the cells were supplemented with 100 mm Glc and incubated for 5 min at 30°C. To start the reaction, 100 μL of this cell suspension were added to 100 μL of the same buffer containing 9.25 kBq labeled L-[14C]Pro, [3H]GABA (γ-aminobutyric acid; Amersham, Braunschweig, Germany), or [14C]Gly betaine (Biotrend, Cologne, Germany), and appropriate amounts of the respective unlabeled amino acids. The transport activity of the yeast mutant 22574d transformed with the empty vector pDR195 was subtracted as background from the observed rates. Samples were removed after 20, 60, 120, and 240 s, transferred to 4 mL of ice-cold buffer A, filtered on glass fiber filters, and washed with 8 mL of buffer A. The uptake of carbon-14 or tritium was determined by liquid scintillation spectrometry. Transport measurements were repeated independently and represent the mean of at least three experiments. Tobacco protoplasts were isolated and transformed as described (CITATION). Images were obtained after 16 to 28 h with a confocal laser-scanning microscope (DMR; Leica Microsystems, Wetzlar, Germany) using the TCS 4D operating system (Leica). GFP was detected with the filter set for fluorescein isothiocyanate, whereas chlorophyll epifluorescence was detected with the filter set for trimethylrhodamine isothiocyanate. The stored digital images were pseudocolored as red or green images using Photoshop 7.0 (Adobe Systems, Mountain View, CA) in correspondence to the real red or green colors. For histochemical localization of β-glucuronidase activity, plant material was infiltrated with 2 mm X-gluc in staining buffer (100 mm sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, 10 mm EDTA, 3 mm K4[Fe2(CN)6], 0.5 mm K3[Fe2(CN)6], 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100). Staining was performed overnight at 37°C. For thin sections, plant material was embedded in paraffin (Peel-a-way 60–62°C; Polysiences, Warrington, PA) after staining according to the protocol of CITATION. Embedded material was sectioned to 12 μm on a Reichert-Jung 2040 Autocut (Pacific Southwest Lab Equipment, Vista, CA), and images were taken using a digital camera (Axiocam; Zeiss, Jena, Germany).
