!~ABS~! Inositol polyphosphates, such as inositol trisphosphate, are pivotal intracellular signaling molecules in eukaryotic cells. In higher plants the mechanism for the regulation of the type and the level of these signaling molecules is poorly understood. In this study we investigate the physiological function of an Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) gene encoding inositol polyphosphate kinase (AtIPK2α), which phosphorylates inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate successively at the D-6 and D-3 positions, and inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate at D-6, resulting in the generation of inositol 1,3,4,5,6-pentakisphosphate. Semiquantitative reverse transcription-PCR and promoter-β-glucuronidase reporter gene analyses showed that AtIPK2α is expressed in various tissues, including roots and root hairs, stem, leaf, pollen grains, pollen tubes, the flower stigma, and siliques. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the AtIPK2α antisense gene under its own promoter were generated. Analysis of several independent transformants exhibiting strong reduction in AtIPK2α transcript levels showed that both pollen germination and pollen tube growth were enhanced in the antisense lines compared to wild-type plants, especially in the presence of nonoptimal low Ca2+ concentrations in the culture medium. Furthermore, root growth and root hair development were also stimulated in the antisense lines, in the presence of elevated external Ca2+ concentration or upon the addition of EGTA. In addition, seed germination and early seedling growth was stimulated in the antisense lines. These observations suggest a general and important role of AtIPK2α, and hence inositol polyphosphate metabolism, in the regulation of plant growth most likely through the regulation of calcium signaling, consistent with the well-known function of inositol trisphosphate in the mobilization of intracellular calcium stores.
!~RES~! An Arabidopsis expressed sequence tag (EST) encoding a protein that shared high homology with animal Ins(1,4,5)P3 kinase and inositol polyphosphate multikinases was identified by searching the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) database. Oligonucleotide primers were designed based on the available EST sequence and used to screen a cDNA library established from hypocotyl tissue (see “Materials and Methods”) through a PCR-based strategy. The longest cDNA identified was used for further studies. It had a length of 1,068 bp, encoding a 286-amino acid-long polypeptide of 31.9 kD. During the course of our experiments, CITATION reported the cloning of a cDNA that encoded AtIPK2α, which was identical to our predicted protein. We therefore adopted the name suggested by CITATION. AtIPK2α shares 73% identical amino acids (84% similarity) with Arabidopsis AtIPK2β (GenBank accession no. AJ404678; CITATION; CITATION). It is significantly smaller than human Ins(1,4,5)P3 3-kinase C (683 amino acids, with a molecular mass of 75.2 kD; GenBank accession no. AJ290975). Structural analysis indicated the presence of a catalytic domain in AtIPK2α, similar to that of known Ins(1,4,5)P3 3-kinases; however, a calmodulin-binding site, which typically occurs in the animal enzymes, exists neither in AtIPK2α (Fig. 1) nor in AtIPK2β. We have previously shown that AtIPK2β does not bind calmodulin, consistent with the absence of a predicted calmodulin-binding site (CITATION). The AtIPK2α gene is located on Arabidopsis chromosome 5. [[FIGURE]] Using recombinant AtIPK2α expressed in Escherichia coli, we confirmed the observations of CITATION that AtIPK2α (like AtIPK2β) is a dual-specificity 6/3-kinase (data not shown). To assess the transcriptional activity of the AtIPK2α gene, a 1.5-kb 5′ upstream region was isolated and fused to the E. coli GUS reporter gene. The promoter-reporter gene construct was transferred into the nuclear genome of Arabidopsis. Ten independent transgenic lines were obtained and GUS expression was analyzed, and all lines showed a very similar pattern of expression. In general, GUS activity was detectable after 2 h of incubation in staining solution. As shown in Figure 2, AtIPK2α was expressed in the emerging seedlings (Fig. 2A, subsection a), in seedlings at different developmental stages (Fig. 2A, subsections b and c), and in roots (Fig. 2A, subsection d), including lateral roots and root hairs (Fig. 2A, subsections d and e). AtIPK2α transcription was also observed in flowers (Fig. 2A, subsections f and i) and was particularly strong in anthers and the stigma (Fig. 2A, subsection i). AtIPK2α transcriptional activity persisted in the stigmatic tissue after fertilization (Fig. 2A, subsection j). AtIPK2α activity was also detected in pollen grains (Fig. 2A, subsection g), in growing pollen tubes (Fig. 2A, subsection h), and in siliques during seed maturation (Fig. 2A, subsection k). Significant GUS activity was also detected in leaves (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To study the physiological role of AtIPK2α, we used a transgenic approach. The AtIPK2α cDNA was fused in reverse orientation to its own promoter and the resulting antisense construct was then transformed into Arabidopsis using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Six independent transgenic lines harboring the AtIPK2α antisense construct were selected. AtIPK2α transcript level was strongly reduced, while the expression of AtIPK2β was not suppressed, as shown by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR (Fig. 3A; AtIPK2α transcript was tested with primers internal, IPK1 and IPK2, and external, IPK-RT1 and IPK-RT2, of the cDNA region used for constructs). Homozygous transgenic plants, obtained after two generations of segregation, were used for analysis. As AtIPK2α was strongly expressed in pollen, we particularly focused our attention on pollen germination and pollen tube growth. Exogenous Ca2+ is critical for pollen grain germination, and pollen grains from control plants exhibited the highest germination frequency (75%) in the presence of exogenous 10 mm Ca2+ (Fig. 3B). Similarly, CITATION observed optimal pollen germination at external 10 mm Ca2+. Germination frequencies were reduced at higher concentrations of Ca2+, i.e. 68% and 25%, at 20 mm and 50 mm Ca2+, respectively. Similarly, at lower Ca2+ concentrations, pollen germination was also reduced (56%, 46%, and 35% at 5 mm, 1 mm, and 0.1 mm added Ca2+, respectively), and only 31% of the pollen grains germinated when no extra Ca2+ was added to the medium. In the presence of the Ca2+-chelating agent EGTA, germination of pollen grains was strongly reduced (8% at 0.1 mm EGTA) or virtually absent (0% at 1 mm EGTA; Figs. 3B and 4, A, C, E, and G). Germination measurements of pollen grains from transgenic plants revealed that reduced AtIPK2α transcript level resulted in an improved germination frequency under identical experimental conditions. As shown in Figure 3B, transgenic pollen also showed a biphasic response to calcium concentration. The germination frequency of transgenic pollen grains was, however, appreciably higher across the range of calcium concentrations: ranging from 58% in the absence of added Ca2+, 59% to 75% at 0.1 to 5 mm Ca2+, and 16% in the presence of 0.1 mm EGTA (Figs. 3B and 4, B, D, F, and H). At high external Ca2+ concentration (50 mm) or in the presence of 1 mm EGTA, pollen grain germination frequencies were similar to that of the control plants. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We also analyzed pollen tube lengths. As shown in Figure 3C, pollen tubes from transgenic lines were longer than those from control plants after 6 h of incubation at all concentrations of exogenous Ca2+ tested (see also Fig. 4). Pollen tubes from both transgenic and control plants exhibited maximal growth at an exogenous Ca2+ concentration of 5 mm. At this concentration, pollen tubes from transgenic plants were 16% longer than those from wild-type control plants. Similar data as described above were also obtained with transgenic line A9 (data not shown). Transgenic plants with reduced AtIPK2α transcript level exhibited an improved root growth under different concentrations of exogenous Ca2+ or when EGTA was supplemented. As indicated in Figure 5, root lengths of transgenic plants were elevated when compared with that of the control plants at 3 mm (Fig. 5A) and 20 mm (Fig. 5B) supplemented Ca2+, or at 0.1 or 0.5 mm EGTA (Fig. 5C). Furthermore, scanning electron microscope (SEM) studies showed that the growth of root hairs of control plants was strongly inhibited under conditions of Ca2+ deficiency, whereas root hair growth of transgenic plants was much less compromised (Fig. 5, C and D). [[FIGURE]] In addition, the early seedling growth was enhanced in the case of the antisense line both in the absence and presence of external EGTA (data not shown). To investigate the localization of AtIPK2α, an AtIPK2α-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein was transiently expressed in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Free GFP was used as a control, which typically accumulates in the cytoplasm and the nucleus (Fig. 6, top). When the AtIPK2α-GFP fusion protein was expressed in onion cells, fluorescence was mostly visible in the nucleus and the plasma membrane (Fig. 6, bottom). However, a transmembrane or membrane-binding domain was not predicted for AtIPK2α when tested with several software tools (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To study whether the accumulated Ins(1,4,5)P3, which is due to the deficiency of AtIPK2α, resulted in the promoted root growth, exogenous Ins(1,4,5)P3 on the root growth were supplemented into the medium and the measurement of primary root growth of 11-d-old Arabidopsis wild-type plants showed that applied Ins(1,4,5)P3 indeed promote root growth. Increased concentrations of Ins(1,4,5)P3 (0.1–1 mm) stimulate root growth and there is an approximately 50% increase at a concentration of 1 mm, while the higher concentrations (5 or 10 mm) didn't have promoting effects (Fig. 7). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Enzymes used for DNA restriction and modification were obtained from Roche (Mannheim, Germany). DNA primers for PCR and Taq polymerase were from Genecore (Shanghai, China). The Random Labeling kit was obtained from TaKaRa Biotechnology (Dalian, China). d-myo-inositol 1,4,5-tetraphosphate (sodium) was obtained from Echelon (San Jose, CA). Escherichia coli XL1-blue cells were used for standard DNA work and for cDNA library amplification. Cells were cultivated at 37°C in Luria-Bertani medium supplemented with appropriate antibiotics using standard methods (CITATION). Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 was used for the transformation of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) L. Heynh. cv C24. Cells were cultivated at 28°C in yeast extract-phosphate medium. Arabidopsis plants were grown in a phytotron with a 16-h-light (22°C; light density approximately 150 μmol photons s−1 m−2)/8-h-dark (18°C) period. The NCBI EST database (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/dbEST/index.html) was screened using human IP3K coding sequence (GenBank accession no. D38169) as a bait, resulting in the identification of a homologous EST from Arabidopsis (accession no. H36803). Primers IPK-1 (5′-AAGATGCAGCTCAAAGTCCC-3′) and IPK-2 (5′-TGACACGGTTGTGGTACCCG-3′) were used to isolate a full-length cDNA from the Arabidopsis cDNA library CD4-16 (Arabidopsis Stock Center, Columbus, OH) employing a PCR-based screening protocol (CITATION). Plaque-purified phage clones were converted to pBluescript SK derivatives using helper phage ExAssist according to the supplier's (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) instructions. The clone pAtIPK, which contained the longest cDNA insert, was used for further analyses. DNA sequencing was done by Genecore. Computational analysis was performed with the help of the programs of the Wisconsin Genetics Computer Group (GCG Package, version 10.1). The BLAST search programs provided through the NCBI web interface (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/) were used for sequence comparisons involving GenBank, EMBL, dbEST, and SwissProt databases. Sequence alignments were performed using the BESTFIT and PILEUP programs. A 1.5-kb-long DNA fragment upstream of the translational start codon was amplified by PCR using primers IPK-3 (5′-GCGTCGACGGAACACTCACTTTCCGGTC-3′; added SalI site underlined) and IPK-4 (5′-CGGGATCCCTTGTTTAAATTATGAAACTGAAC-3′; added BamHI site underlined), and genomic DNA from Arabidopsis C24 as template. Amplified DNA products were ligated via the attached SalI/BamHI sites into binary vector pBI101.2 (CITATION), leading to plasmid p101-AtIPK-pro (AtIPK2α promoter inserted upstream of the GUS reporter gene). The AtIPK2α promoter in plasmid p101-AtIPK-pro was sequenced to confirm the absence of PCR-induced nucleotide changes. Finally, p101-AtIPK-pro was used to transform Arabidopsis via vacuum infiltration (CITATION). Transgenic seedlings were identified on sterile agar medium containing kanamycin. GUS activity was determined using 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl β-d-glucuronic acid as substrate (CITATION). When required, stained plant tissue was fixed in formaldehyde-acetic acid fixative (distilled water, 95% ethanol, formalin, acetic acid, 80:60:2.4:1.6, v/v/v/v) and analyzed microscopically (Nikon SMZ800; Kanagawa, Japan). To study the physiological role of AtIPK2α, the full-length cDNA of AtIPK2α was cloned into the vector p101-AtIPK-pro yielding the binary construct, pA-AtIPK. In this plasmid the AtIPK2α coding region was located in reverse orientation under the control of its own promoter. Arabidopsis transformation was performed by vacuum infiltration (CITATION). Seeds harvested from primary transformants were selected on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 20 mg/L kanamycin, and resistant seedlings were transferred to a phytotron. AtIPK2α transcript levels were determined through coupled RT-PCR. In short, RNA samples extracted from both resistant and control plants were quantitated and used as templates for the synthesis of first-strand cDNA (synthesized with the First-Strand cDNA Synthesis kit from Amersham Biosciences, Shanghai, China). The resulting cDNA pools were used for RT-PCR with either internal primers IPK-1 and IPK-2, or with primers annealing to the 5′ UTR (IPK-RT1, 5′-CTGAAGATTTGTTCTACTACTC-3′), or to the 3′ UTR (IPK-RT2, 5′-TTCTGCTCTTTAGGTAATCAAG-3′), respectively, of the AtIPK2α transcript. Primers from AtIPK2β, AtIPK2β-1 (5′-CGGTTCTTCAAGCCACTTCAGG-3′), and AtIPK2β-2 (5′-CAAGAACAAGCTTCTTCTCAGC-3′) were used to test the transcripts of AtIPK2β in the same pools. The PCR cycling protocol was as follows: 94°C/2 min; 36 × (94°C, 1 min; 60°C, 45 s; 72°C, 1 min); 72°C, 10 min. Primers annealing to Arabidopsis actin transcript (gene locus number At1g49240) were used for positive-control reactions (Act-1, 5′-GCGGTTTTCCCCAGTGTTGTTG-3′; Act-2, 5′-TGCCTGGACCTGCTTCATCATACT-3′). Amplified DNA fragments were separated on 1.5% (w/v) agarose gels and monitored using the GelDoc 2000 system (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). Homozygous T3 plants were used for all physiological experiments. Arabidopsis flowers, collected from homozygous transgenic plants 1 to 2 weeks after bolting, were used to analyze pollen phenotypes. Open flowers were dehydrated at room temperature for at least 2 h and pollen grains were obtained by dipping the flowers onto aqueous medium. Pollen grains were germinated on agar medium containing 5 mm MES (pH 5.8, adjusted with Tris), 16.6% (w/v) Suc, 1.5 mm boric acid, 0.8 mm MgSO4, 1 mm KCl, 10 mg/L myo-inositol, 3.65% (w/v) sorbitol, and 1% agar, slightly revised from CITATION. CaCl2 was added as required. The frequency of germination of pollen grains and the lengths of pollen tubes were determined after germination at room temperature for 6 h under a microscope (Nikon SMZ800). To examine the affect of extracellular Ca2+ ions on pollen grain germination and pollen tube growth, pollen grains of both control and transgenic plants (two independent lines A8 and A9) were incubated for 6 h at 25°C on medium containing different concentrations of Ca2+ (CaCl2) or EGTA. For each treatment, at least 100 pollen grains and pollen tubes were randomly chosen for germination frequency calculation and pollen tube length measurements. Pollen tubes were observed under a microscope, photographed, and measured with the SMARTSCAPE program (Furi, Shanghai, China). All experiments were repeated three times. Seeds from homozygous transgenic and Arabidopsis C24 wild-type plants were placed on Murashige and Skoog agar media containing different concentrations of additionally supplied Ca2+ (plus 3 or 20 mm), EGTA (0.1, 0.5, or 1 mm) or Ins(1,4,5)P3 (0.1, 0.5, 1, 5, or 10 mm), and grown in a phytotron for daily measurements of root length and observation of root hairs. For each transgenic line at least 30 seedlings were chosen randomly for measurements. All experiments were repeated three times. For SEM analysis, specimens were dried at critical point, and coated with gold before examination in an S-4160 Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscope (Hitachi, Tokyo Japan) at an accelerating voltage of 10 kV. Localization of AtIPK2 protein was tested by transient expression of an AtIPK2α-GFP fusion protein in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells. The AtIPK2α coding region was amplified by PCR using primers IPK-7 (5′-ACGCGTCGACATGCAGCTCAAAGTCCCTG-3′; SalI site underlined, start codon in italics) and IPK-8 (CATGACTAGTGAATCTGCAGACTCATCTG; SpeI site underlined, stop codon substituted). Plasmid pET-AtIPK2αserved as template. The resulting PCR product was cloned into the vector pA7-GFP (kindly provided by Dr. K. Czempinski, University of Potsdam, Germany), yielding plasmid pA7-AtIPK-GFP. In this plasmid expression of the AtIPK2α-GFP fusion transcript was under the control of the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus 35S promoter. The resulting construct was sequenced to confirm an intact in-frame fusion, and to check for the absence of nucleotide errors that may have been introduced by PCR. Plasmid pA7-AtIPK-GFP was used for transient transformation of onion epidermal cells using a particle gun (Bio-Rad). Expression and localization of AtIPK2α-GFP fusion protein in onion cells was observed under a confocal laser scanning microscope (Zeiss LSM 510 META, Wavelength 488 nm). Plasmolysis of onion epidermis cells was induced by 1 m Suc. Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession numbers AJ404678 (AtIPK2β), AJ290975 (HuIP3K), D38169 (human IP3K), and H36803 (Arabidopsis EST).
