!~ABS~! Plants produce diverse isoprenoids, which are synthesized in plastids, mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and the nonorganellar cytoplasm. 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (HMGR) catalyzes the synthesis of mevalonate, a rate-limiting step in the cytoplasmic pathway. Several branches of the pathway lead to the synthesis of structurally and functionally varied, yet essential, isoprenoids. Several HMGR isoforms have been identified in all plants examined. Studies based on gene expression and on fractionation of enzyme activity suggested that subcellular compartmentalization of HMGR is an important intracellular channeling mechanism for the production of the specific classes of isoprenoids. Plant HMGR has been shown previously to insert in vitro into the membrane of microsomal vesicles, but the final in vivo subcellular localization(s) remains controversial. To address the latter in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) cells, we conducted a multipronged microscopy and cell fractionation approach that included imaging of chimeric HMGR green fluorescent protein localizations in transiently transformed cell leaves, immunofluorescence confocal microscopy in wild-type and stably transformed seedlings, immunogold electron microscopy examinations of endogenous HMGR in seedling cotyledons, and sucrose density gradient analyses of HMGR-containing organelles. Taken together, the results reveal that endogenous Arabidopsis HMGR is localized at steady state within ER as expected, but surprisingly also predominantly within spherical, vesicular structures that range from 0.2- to 0.6-μm diameter, located in the cytoplasm and within the central vacuole in differentiated cotyledon cells. The N-terminal region, including the transmembrane domain of HMGR, was found to be necessary and sufficient for directing HMGR to ER and the spherical structures. It is believed, although not directly demonstrated, that these vesicle-like structures are derived from segments of HMGR-ER. Nevertheless, they represent a previously undescribed subcellular compartment likely capable of synthesizing mevalonate, which provides new evidence for multiorganelle compartmentalization of the isoprenoid biosynthetic pathways in plants.
!~RES~! With the objective of investigating the subcellular sorting/targeting of HMGR1S and determining the role in these processes played by its amino-terminal domain, a chimeric protein was constructed such that the catalytic domain encoded by HMG1 was replaced with GFP. Thus, the polypeptide fragment of HMGR1S fused to GFP was amino acid residues 1 to 178 that included the cytoplasm-facing N-terminal region, the membrane domain consisting of both transmembrane sequences (H1 and H2) and the luminal stretch, and the linker region (Fig. 1). The resulting chimeric protein 1S:GFP was transiently expressed under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter in epidermal cells of 5-week-old Arabidopsis leaves after microbombardment. Confocal laser microscopy was used to determine the localization pattern of the expressed proteins (Fig. 2). Figure 2A is a positive control image showing the typical nuclear and nonorganellar cytoplasmic localization of transiently expressed, nonchimeric GFP in a transformed leaf epidermal cell. Figure 2B illustrates the results of another positive control, namely, an ER-targeted construct, pEGFPer (CITATION), which clearly sorted to and appears within reticular ER. Figure 2, C and D, shows as expected the localization of chimeric 1S:GFP in reticular ER comparable to that of pEGFPer (Fig. 2B). Of particular interest, however, 1S:GFP also was observed within spherical structures located along the ER strands that ranged in apparent diameter from 0.5 to 2 μm. Measurements of this sort are subject to varying intensities of transiently expressed GFP fusion proteins. In conclusion, the N-terminal region of HMGR1S, with its two transmembrane domains, is sufficient to direct GFP to both reticular ER and the spherical structures. [[FIGURE]] Overexpressed, membrane-targeted GFP fusion proteins have been reported to form organelle aggregates, which can lead to misinterpretations of sorting pathways for trafficked proteins (CITATION). This concern has been expressed particularly for ER-targeted GFP (e.g. CITATION; CITATION). Also, elevated levels of yeast HMGR expression can result in its deregulation (CITATION) and changes in subcellular localization of its isoforms (CITATION). Consideration of these potential problems prompted us to focus on localization of endogenous Arabidopsis HMGR1S. Rabbit polyclonal antibodies raised against the catalytic domain of HMGR1 (anti-CD1; CITATION) were employed in our confocal immunofluorescence microscopy experiments. Immunoblot analyses of wild-type Arabidopsis extracts (and subcellular fractions; Fig. 6A) revealed a 63-kD polypeptide corresponding to the estimated molecular mass of the HMGR1S isoform. Preincubations of anti-CD1 antiserum with excess recombinant HMGR1 catalytic domain resulted in the absence of immunoblot signals (data not shown), providing further evidence for the specificity of the antiserum. Anti-CD1 antibodies also recognized the catalytic domain of HMGR2 (CD2), as evidenced by immunoblot detections in extracts of transgenic plants transformed with CD2 (CITATION). The failure to detect endogenous HMGR2 (60 kD) or HMGR1L (69 kD) isoforms in wild-type plant extracts on the same immunoblots as HMGR1S indicates that these isoforms exist at much lower levels than HMGR1S. Immunofluorescence experiments (Fig. 3) were done with whole mounts of 6-d-old seedling cotyledons rather than with older plantlets or true leaves because difficulties were encountered with the penetration of the antibodies in the older plant parts, possibly due to the thicker and/or more cross-linked cell walls. Negative controls included omission of primary antibody (data not shown), and positive controls included applications of antiserum raised against the tonoplast membrane protein, α-tonoplast intrinsic protein (α-TIP; CITATION; Fig. 3A) or antiserum raised against cytoplasmic farnesyl diphosphate synthase isoform 1 (FPS1; CITATION; Fig. 3B). Figure 3, C and D, shows that most of the HMGR signal (anti-CD1 antibody) is associated with spherical structures distributed throughout the cell, singly or in small groups, with apparent diameters ranging from 0.4 to 1.3 μm. The presence of HMGR in plastids has been a subject of debate (CITATION; CITATION). For this reason, the autofluorescence of chlorophyll in Figure 3 is shown to provide evidence for the lack of detectable levels of HMGR in plastids. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the amino-terminal domain of HMGR is essential for acquisition of the enzyme into the spherical structures, a transgenic line overexpressing the catalytic domain (CD1) was generated. Figure 3E shows that the truncated protein exhibited an expected cytoplasmic localization, and the inset shows that CD1 also existed in the nucleus of transformed cells. This result provides indirect evidence that the amino-terminal domain of HMGR is necessary for directing the protein to spherical structures. Figure 3F, however, shows that spherical structures acquire HMGR1S in cells of plants stably transformed with this protein (CITATION), a result that, when coupled with that presented in Figure 3E, provides more direct evidence for the necessity of the HMGR N-terminal region for this targeting. The confocal immunofluorescence data described above indicate that the spherical structures are the main repository of Arabidopsis HMGR. Figure 3G shows the image of an individual confocal section of nontransformed cotyledon cells when the intensity of the green HMGR signal has been increased significantly over the red channel. This manipulation reveals that the endogenous HMGR immunofluorescence signal emanates also from a reticulated system observed in the spaces between the plastids. This latter image is consistent with a concomitant ER localization, which is similar to the reticular ER localizations observed in our GFP-fusion experiments (Fig. 2). The transgenic line transformed with the sequence coding for isoform 1S had significantly higher HMGR-specific activity than wild-type plants (Fig. 4A), whereas the corresponding increase in protein was relatively modest (Fig. 4B). The CD1-transformed plants showed the highest HMGR-specific activity (Fig. 4A). In these plants, an intense immunoblot signal for CD1 (50 kD) was, intriguingly, accompanied by a clearly increased signal for HMGR1S. Southern blots of the transgenic lines indicated that both contained a single extra DNA copy of the corresponding forms (Fig. 4D). [[FIGURE]] The cytoplasmic, punctate pattern revealed by application of anti-CD1 antibodies (Fig. 3, C, D, and G) could be consistent with the known peroxisomal localization of mammalian HMGR (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, it was of interest to determine whether these HMGR-containing structures were plant peroxisomes. CITATION recently showed that the mouse anti-tobacco catalase monoclonal antibodies and the rabbit anti-cottonseed catalase polyclonal antibodies used in our study recognized peroxisomal catalase in Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells, but not in plant tissue cells. Figure 5 shows the results of dual-labeling immunofluorescence experiments conducted with these antibodies in 6-d-old wild-type Arabidopsis seedling cotyledons. Punctate structures attributable to immunorecognition of the mouse anti-tobacco catalase antibodies and the rabbit anti-cottonseed catalase antibodies are shown among the red plastids (Fig. 5A) and without chlorophyll detection (Fig. 5B). The corresponding binary mask image, where only coincident pixels are shown (Fig. 5C), reveals colocalization of both antibodies in peroxisomes. These results verified the monoclonal antibody recognition of cotyledon peroxisomal catalase and provided a positive control for colocalization. [[FIGURE]] Figure 5, D and E, illustrates dual-immunolabeling results with similar cells incubated in the same mouse monoclonal anti-catalase antibodies and rabbit anti-CD1 antiserum. Signals from both antibodies are observed with (Fig. 5D) and without (Fig. 5E) visible plastids. The resulting binary mask image (Fig. 5F) clearly shows that the signals are not colocalized, indicating that, in Arabidopsis seedlings, the HMGR signal is not located within catalase-containing peroxisomes. In confocal images, the mean diameter of HMGR-containing structures is approximately 0.6 μm, whereas peroxisomes are about 1 μm in diameter, in agreement with preexisting data for peroxisome size in Arabidopsis seedlings (CITATION). The data presented above indicate that most of Arabidopsis HMGR resides in as yet unidentified abundant spherical structures somewhat smaller in diameter than cotyledon peroxisomes. Extracts of 9-d-old wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings were cleared of unbroken whole cells and cellular debris with a 200g (5 min) centrifugation. The supernatant (S200) was then centrifuged at 16,000g (20 min), and the resulting pellet (P16) and supernatant (S16) were assayed for their HMGR activity. The results indicated that 58.8% ± 5.7% of total activity was found in P16, and 40.7% ± 5.7% was found in S16. Similar partitioning between the pellet and supernatant was observed with plants grown under long-, short-, and continuous-daylight regimes and with 6-d-old and 5-week-old plants (data not shown). After the 16,000g centrifugation, the sediment contains intact plastids and peroxisomes, while S16 contains the nonorganellar cytoplasmic components and membranes derived from all disrupted organelles, including the ER and Golgi (CITATION; CITATION). We routinely confirmed the reliability of this separation through measurements of chlorophyll absorbance (CITATION) and analyses of peroxisomal and cytoplasmic protein markers on immunoblots (see below). With the objective of further characterizing the structures possessing HMGR, Suc density-gradient centrifugations were employed. P16 and S16 prepared from leaves were loaded onto 35% to 55% (w/v) and 20% to 40% (w/v) Suc gradients, respectively. Gradient fractions were analyzed on immunoblots with anti-CD1 antiserum (Fig. 6). The HMGR signal was observed in all the fractions derived from P16 (Fig. 6A, top blot), and in the less dense region of the 20% to 40% gradient derived from S16 (Fig. 6B, top blot). From densitometric analyses of the immunoblots, the partitioning of HMGR between P16 and S16 was approximately 70:30, respectively, in good agreement with activity data (see above text). A main polypeptide band of approximately 63 kD was identified in P16 fractions, consistent with the expected size of HMGR1S, the main isoform in adult leaves (CITATION). Additional minor bands of a slightly higher and a lower mobility were observed in S16 fractions. These bands might be HMGR isoforms 2 and 1L, with respective expected molecular masses of 60 and 69 kD. Similar results were obtained when S16 or P16 extracts from plants grown under short- and long-daylight regimes were applied to similar Suc gradients (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Subcellular fraction distributions in these gradient experiments were determined with antiserum against cytoplasmic FPS1 and peroxisomal catalase, and from chlorophyll absorbance for chloroplasts. As expected, FPS1 signal was detected only in S16 fractions (Fig. 6B, middle blot; 40-kD polypeptide). Rabbit antiserum against cottonseed catalase recognized the Arabidopsis homolog (57-kD polypeptide) on immunoblots. As was anticipated, catalase released from ruptured peroxisomes was abundant at the top of the S16 20% to 40% gradients (Fig. 6B, bottom blot). Somewhat surprisingly, however, catalase was found in all fractions of the P16 35% to 55% gradient (Fig. 6A, bottom blot). These results suggest that our w/v Suc density gradients separate peroxisomes of varied density. Subcellular localizations and ultrastructure of the HMGR-containing spherical bodies were elucidated through extensive immunogold electron microscopy studies of sections prepared from cotyledons of 6-d-old seedlings, which also were used for confocal immunofluorescence studies (Fig. 3). Figure 7, A and B, illustrates representative images of cell cytoplasm observed following dual immunogold labeling with the ER resident protein BiP (Ig heavy-chain binding protein) marked with 15-nm gold particles and HMGR marked with 10-nm gold particles. Double-labeling experiments for HMGR and BiP were done with two different anti-BiP antibodies: polyclonal rabbit anti-tobacco BiP (data shown) and monoclonal mouse anti-spinach BiP (data not shown), obtaining essentially the same labeling results in both cases. The linear arrangement of both sized gold particles is consistent with the expected colocalization of these proteins in ER. Figure 7C illustrates a representative negative gold-particle control image obtained after application of preadsorbed anti-CD1 antiserum (anti-CD1 antibodies preincubated with excess recombinant HMGR1 catalytic domain) and protein A-conjugated gold particles (10 nm). Gold particles are not observed over chloroplasts or anywhere in the nonorganellar cytoplasm surrounding a portion of the central vacuole containing a spherical structure bounded by a single membrane characteristic of vesicles. Results of dual labeling with anti-α-TIP and anti-HMGR antisera, shown in Figure 7, D and E, revealed HMGR-specific immunogold labeling of spherical, membrane-bounded vesicles within the central vacuole. These structures are similar in appearance to the unlabeled structures in the vacuole observed in the control images (e.g. Fig. 7C). Anti-α-TIP gold labeling was relatively less than HMGR gold labeling. Gold particles attributable to anti-α-TIP were observed over the tonoplast (Fig. 7D) and, less frequently, over intravacuolar vesicles (Fig. 7, D and E), providing additional evidence for the inclusion of the vesicles within the vacuole. The largest diameter of the sectioned vesicles observed in transmission electron microscopy images was approximately 0.4 μm, which is somewhat less than the average 0.6-μm diameter determined from measurements of significantly more spherical structures observed in whole-mount confocal images. This slight difference very likely is due to resolution differences between the two imaging processes. [[FIGURE]] The HMGR-containing vesicles also were observed in the nonorganellar cytoplasm, appearing as single structures (Fig. 7F) or in small groups (Fig. 7G). Although gold particles attributable to HMGR and BiP often were observed in neighboring areas in the same sections, they were not colocalized within vesicles in the nonorganellar cytoplasm or vacuoles (Fig. 7, H–L). BiP gold particles were observed over structures surrounded by cytoplasm (Fig. 7, H and I) and over structures adjacent to the tonoplast (Fig. 7, J and K) that resemble previously described BiP bodies (CITATION). Similarly, HMGR gold particles were identified in small membrane-bounded vesicles near the tonoplast (Fig. 7, J and L). In most cases, the HMGR-specific gold particles were associated with the membrane of the vesicles (Fig. 7, D–G, I, and L).
!~MM~! Seeds from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia) plants were surface sterilized and then sown in petri dishes containing solid (0.8% w/v agar) germination medium (Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 10 g L−1 Suc, 0.5 g L−1 MES, pH 5.7). Dishes were incubated at 22°C ± 2°C for the days indicated for long- (16-h light/8-h dark), short- (8/16), or continuous-day (24/0) illumination regimes with 130 μmol m−2 s−1 daylight fluorescent illumination. Transgenic plants transformed with individual HMGR isoforms were grown on plates with germination medium containing 50 μg mL−1 kanamycin. Thereafter, 9-d-old seedlings were transplanted into soil and allowed to grow for up to 5 weeks under the same light/dark conditions. For subcellular fractionation of plant organs, leaves (400 mg) from 5-week-old plants were ground in a mortar on ice with 3 mL of extraction medium containing 0.1 m Tricine, pH 7.5, 10 mm KCl, 1 mm MgCl2, 1 mm EDTA, 1% (w/v) Ficoll, 0.1% (w/v) bovine serum albumin (BSA; Fraction V; Sigma, St. Louis), 0.5 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 5 mm dithiothreitol, and 20% (w/v) Suc. The ground material was cleared of large debris and nuclei in a short centrifugation at 200g (5 min, 4°C). The resulting supernatant was spun in a bench-top centrifuge at 16,000g (20 min, 4°C) to yield a pellet (P16) and supernatant (S16). Protein was determined with the DC Protein Assay from Bio-Rad (Hercules, CA). The protein content was nearly equal in P16 and S16. S16 was spun again as above and 1 mL of the resulting clarified S16, containing approximately 1.5 mg of protein, was loaded directly on top of a 40-mL continuous 20% to 40% (w/v) Suc gradient freshly prepared in Thinwall Ultra-Clear Beckman tubes (Beckman, Fullerton, CA). P16 was washed once with extraction buffer and the resulting cleaned P16, adjusted to contain approximately 1.5 mg of protein, was taken up in 1 mL of extraction buffer containing 35% (w/v) Suc and loaded on top of a 40-mL continuous 35% to 55% (w/v) Suc gradient prepared as described above. The gradients were centrifuged in a Beckman swinging bucket SW 28 rotor at 25,000 rpm (82,700g at rav) for 6 h (4°C). Approximately 20 2-mL fractions were collected immediately from each gradient by puncturing the bottom of tubes with a red-hot hypodermic needle. Fractions were kept frozen at −20°C. HMGR activity was assayed as described in CITATION. The mean values and sds were obtained from eight independent assays of the same sample, unless otherwise specified. The cDNA coding for the catalytic domain of Arabidopsis HMGR1 was expressed in Escherichia coli and the protein (CD1) was purified according to CITATION. Antibodies against the purified protein (anti-CD1) were generated in rabbits as described in CITATION. For immunoblot analyses, each well in a 12.5% SDS-polyacrylamide gel was loaded with either equal amounts of total protein (Fig. 4; 15 μg/lane) or equal volumes of density gradient fractions (Fig. 6; 30 μL/lane). Electrophoresis was performed as described by CITATION and proteins were transferred to a Hybond-P polyvinylidenedifluoride (PVDF) membrane (Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK) using a mini trans-blot cell (Bio-Rad). Equal protein loading in Figure 4 was further assessed by Ponceau staining of the PVDF membrane blot. Densitometric analysis (see below) of the band corresponding to Rubisco indicated that differences in protein content between lanes were always less than 10%. PVDF membranes were blocked in 0.1 m Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 0.1 m MgCl2, 0.5% (v/v) Tween 20, 1% BSA (Fraction V; Sigma), and 5% (v/v) fetal calf serum (Reactiva) for 1 h at room temperature. PVDF membranes were incubated with rabbit antiserum raised against either the catalytic domain of Arabidopsis HMGR1 (CD1), Arabidopsis FPS1 (CITATION), or cottonseed catalase (CITATION), all of them at 1:2,000 dilution in blocking buffer for 16 h at 4°C. The ECL western-blotting detection system (Amersham) was used to visualize the decorated bands. The negatives were scanned at 200 dpi (AGFA Duoscan T2000 XL). Density analyses of each band were made using a computerized densitometer and the IMAT program (Scientific and Technical Services, University of Barcelona, Barcelona). For extraction of plant genomic DNA, approximately 1 g of fresh Arabidopsis leaves was ground in a mortar in the presence of liquid nitrogen. To the fine powder were added 5 mL of DNA extraction buffer (0.1 m EDTA, 0.25 m NaCl, 100 μg/mL proteinase K, 0.1 m Tris-HCl, pH 8.0), and the grinding was resumed until the complete disappearance of undissolved material. The resulting solution was transferred to a conical tube where N-lauroylsarcosine was added to a final concentration of 1% (w/v). After a 2-h incubation at 55°C, the tube was centrifuged (10 min, 6,000 rpm), and the resulting supernatant centrifuged again several times in the same conditions until the solution was clear. The DNA was then precipitated with 0.6 volumes of isopropyl alcohol, washed twice with 70% ethanol, slightly dried, and finally taken up in Tris EDTA buffer (1 mm EDTA, 10 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5). Genomic DNA was further purified by adding 1/10 volume of a NaCl/hexadecyltrimethylammonium bromide solution (5 m NaCl, 10% w/v hexadecyltrimethylammonium bromide). After a 20-min incubation at 65°C, the aqueous phase was extracted several times with 1 volume of CHCl3, and the purified DNA finally precipitated with 0.6 volumes of isopropyl alcohol, washed with 70% ethanol, and taken up in Tris EDTA buffer, pH 7.5. A digoxigenin-labeled DNA probe was amplified by PCR from a region of the HMGR1 catalytic domain cDNA lacking EcoRI sites. Primers SP6 (antisense) and an internal primer located on position 722 of the HMGR1L cDNA (sense) were used with the cloned cDNA as a template to generate an 878-bp probe that stretched until position 1,600 of the coding region. Alkali-labile DIG-dUTP (Boehringer Mannheim, Basel) was included in the PCR reaction mixture with a DIG-dUTP:dTTP ratio of 1:3. For Southern-blot analysis, genomic DNA was digested with EcoRI (Gibco BRL, Cleveland), under the conditions specified by the supplier. The digested DNA was electrophoresed in 1% agarose gels, transferred to a positively charged nylon membrane (Boehringer Mannheim) by capillary transfer, and hybridized with the DIG-labeled DNA probe overnight at 42°C. Hybridization, stringency washes, and detection were performed following the instructions in the DIG DNA-labeling kit (Boehringer Mannheim), with a final wash of 0.1× SSC, 0.1% SDS at 68°C. For whole-mount immunofluorescence experiments, 6-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings grown under a short-daylight regime were fixed for 3 h at room temperature under vacuum in 4% (v/v) formaldehyde (prepared from paraformaldehyde) in PMEG buffer (50 mm KPIPES, pH 7.5, 2 mm MgSO4, 5 mm EGTA) and 10% (v/v) dimethyl sulfoxide, washed three times over 30 min in PMEG, and incubated for 30 min at 37°C in a cell wall-digesting solution containing 0.5% (w/v) pectolyase from Aspergillus japonicus (Sigma; 4.5 units/mg solid), 2% (v/v) Triton X-100, and 1% (w/v) BSA (Fraction V; Merck, Rahway, NJ) in PMEG. Seedlings were washed three more times in PMEG and incubated overnight at 4°C with primary antibody (see above) diluted in 0.1 m phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) containing 3% (w/v) BSA (PBS/BSA). Rabbit antiserum against bean α-TIP was kindly provided by Dolors Ludevid (Centre d'Investigació i Desenvolupament-Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Barcelona), and originally obtained from H. Höfte (CITATION). The working concentration of the primary antibody (generally 1:500 dilution) was empirically determined. After washing with PBS three times (30 min), seedlings were incubated with the secondary antibody (see below) in PBS/BSA for 3 h at 37°C, and washed three more times with PBS. Finally, whole seedlings were mounted on a glass microscope slide with Mowiol (Calbiochem, San Diego), and stored at 4°C in the dark until examination with the confocal microscope. AlexaFluor 488 goat anti-rabbit F(ab′)2 was used as a secondary antibody for the rabbit anti-CD1 and the rabbit anti-cottonseed catalase antiserum (CITATION), and AlexaFluor 350 goat anti-mouse F(ab′)2 was used for the mouse monoclonal anti-tobacco catalase (CITATION). Both secondary antibodies were purchased from Molecular Probes (Eugene, OR) and applied at a final concentration of 7 μg/mL. Whole mounts of seedlings were analyzed with a Leica SP2 confocal microscope (Leica, Wetzlar, Germany), using an HCX Plan Apochromatic 63 X/N.A.1.3 oil or an HCX PL APO 100.0 × 1/40 oil objectives at several zoom factors. For double- and triple-fluorescence imaging, sequential excitations of the AlexaFluor 350 (351-nm line of an UV-Ar laser), AlexaFluor 488 (488-nm line of an Ar laser), and the autofluorescence from plastids (633 nm of an He-Ne laser) were combined with a narrow spectral detection to avoid autofluorescence contamination of the AlexaFluor 350 and AlexaFluor 488 detection. For the autofluorescence of plastids, the spectral detection was set. Seedlings also were observed using a fluorescence low-magnification microscope (Leica MZ FLIII) coupled to a CCD (Leica DC camera and Leica ICM 1000 software). Three-dimensional projections and three-dimensional colocalization analyses were made with the Imaris (version 2.7) and Colocalization (version 1.2) Software packages from Bitplane AG (Zurich). Organelle size quantification was made using the Image Morphometric Analysis function of the Metamorph Software package from Universal Imaging (Chester, PA). Plant expression vectors were constructed according to standard molecular biology procedures (CITATION). Transgenic plants transformed with isoforms HMGR1S, HMGR1L, HMGR2, and with the catalytic domain of isoform HMGR1 were generated by Víctor M. González (CITATION). The cDNA sequences encoding the different forms were cloned under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Arabidopsis plants were transformed using the in planta vacuum infiltration method (CITATION) and Agrobacterium tumefaciens. For GFP experiments, pRTL2-sGFP plant expression plasmid containing sGFP(S65T) (CITATION) was modified to generate pGFPau plasmid, by introducing at the NcoI site a polylinker containing the sequence 5′-CATGGGCAATTGGTACCGCCGGCTAGCGGCCGCAGTCGACGG-3′. The polylinker inserted before the ATG start codon of the GFP in pGFPau allowed us to insert DNA codons for in-frame fusion proteins at the amino-terminal site of GFP. To generate the 1S:GFP fusion, a PCR-amplified fragment coding for amino acids 1 to 178 of HMGR1S was previously cloned in the pAS2-1 vector (Clontech Laboratories, Palo Alto, CA) using the NcoI and BamHI sites. It was then recovered with NcoI and SalI and cloned into pGFPau to generate the 1S:GFP vector. All the resulting vectors were verified by sequencing, using the ABI PRISM BigDye DNA sequencing kit (Perkin-Elmer Biosystems, Foster City, CA). For the microbombardment assays, Arabidopsis plants were grown for 4 to 6 weeks under short-daylight conditions. Arabidopsis leaf cells were then microbombarded with the 1S:GFP construct using a Biolistic PDS-1000/He system (Bio-Rad) as described (CITATION). After 18 h of expression, subcellular localization of the fusion proteins was determined by analyzing the green fluorescence patterns by confocal laser-scanning microscopy. The pEGFPer vector was kindly provided by Patrick Gallois (University of Manchester, UK). It was created as a positive control for ER localization by adding a basic chitinase secretion peptide and the ER retention signal KDEL to EGFP (CITATION). For immunogold labeling of nonembedded cryosections, discs (1-mm diameter) excised from cotyledons of 6-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings grown under a short-daylight regime were chemically fixed overnight at 4°C in a mixture of 2% formaldehyde (prepared from paraformaldehyde; Ted Pella) and 0.1% (v/v) glutaraldehyde (EMS) in 0.1 m sodium phosphate buffer (PB), pH 7.5. After washing with PB containing 50 mm Gly, discs were embedded in 10% (w/v) gelatin (Merck; molecular biology grade) and infused with 2.3 m Suc in PB (CITATION). Mounted gelatin blocks were frozen in liquid propane. Ultrathin sections were cut with an ultracryomicrotome (Leica EM FCS, Vienna). The frozen sections of the discs were collected with a solution containing 1% methylcellulose and 1.15 m Suc (CITATION), deposited onto Cu/Pd grids, and then immunogold labeled with anti-CD1 antiserum and protein A coupled to 10-nm gold particles (purchased from Dr. J.W. Slot, Department of Cell Biology, Utrecht University Medical School, Utrecht, The Netherlands). Specifically, fixed cryosections were incubated at 37°C for 20 min in 0.1 m PBS containing 2% (w/v) gelatin, and then washed four times for 3 min each at room temperature in PBS containing 0.4% (w/v) Gly. After a final wash in PBS containing 10% (w/v) fetal bovine serum (FBS; Amresco, Solon, OH; PBS/FBS10), sections were incubated for 30 min with anti-CD1 antiserum diluted 1:50 in PBS/FBS5. After eight 2-min washes in PBS/FBS0.2, the sections were incubated for 20 min with protein A conjugated to 10-nm gold particles diluted 1:60 in PBS/FBS5. Grids were then rinsed with eight 2-min PBS washes and incubated for 5 min in PBS containing 1% glutaraldehyde. At this point, the grids selected for double staining with rabbit anti-tobacco BiP or rabbit anti-bean α-TIP (CITATION) were returned to the PBS/gelatin step. The same processing of grids was done as above, except goat anti-rabbit IgGs conjugated to 15-nm gold particles (Aurion-BSA, Science Services, Munich) were applied instead of protein A gold conjugated to 10-nm particles. Thereafter, the PBS washes were the same as above. For double labelings of HMGR and BiP using a monoclonal anti-spinach BiP (mouse anti-HSC70; StressGen Biotechnologies, Victoria, British Columbia, Canada), both primary antibodies were added together; later, protein A gold conjugated to 10-nm beads and goat anti-mouse conjugated to 15-nm gold particles (Biocell British/International, Cardiff, UK) were added also in a single step. Finally, grids were washed in water 8 times, 2 min each. Cryosections were contrasted and embedded in a mixture of methylcellulose and uranyl acetate and observed with a JEOL 1010 transmission electron microscope.
