!~ABS~! Vacuolar H+-ATPases play an important role in maintaining the pH of endomembrane compartments in eukaryotic cells. The functional relevance of this homeostasis for multicellular development has not been studied in plants. Here, we analyze the biological consequences resulting from the lack of subunit E isoform 1 (VHA-E1) encoded by the Arabidopsis TUFF gene. tuff mutant embryos are lethal, displaying variably enlarged cells with multiple nuclei, large vacuoles containing inclusions, abnormal organization of Golgi stacks, and cell wall defects. Rescue of embryo lethality by cell cycle-regulated expression of VHA-E1 results in abnormal seedlings with non-functional meristems and defective cell differentiation. VHA-E1 is the predominant isoform in embryogenesis whereas VHA-E3 is expressed mainly in the endosperm and surrounding maternal tissues during seed development, and VHA-E2 is pollen-specific. VHA-E1 protein accumulates at endomembrane compartments including vacuoles and endosomes, but appears absent from the plasma membrane. Our results suggest an essential role for VHA-E1 in maintaining a functional secretory system during somatic development but not in the haploid gametophytes.
!~RES~! Two mutations in the Arabidopsis TUF gene, EMS-induced allele UU2573 and T-DNA insertion S08 (SALK 087937; CITATION), caused embryo lethality and displayed very similar embryo phenotypes (Figure 1). In contrast to wild-type embryos, tuf mutant embryos failed to undergo morphogenesis (compare Figure 1B,D with A,C). The mutant cells were variably enlarged, multinucleate and contained large vacuoles that accumulated inclusions staining pink with the pH-sensitive dye toluidine blue (Figure 1B,D). Cell wall deposition was also affected, as evidenced by thin cell walls, local thickening and cell wall stubs (Figure 1E). In addition, Golgi stacks were horseshoe-shaped, with large membrane vesicles accumulating nearby, which indicated that their organization was altered (compare Figure 1G,I with F,H). These observations suggested that the TUF gene plays an essential role in maintaining a functional secretory system required for normal embryogenesis. [[FIGURE]] The TUF gene was isolated by map-based cloning (Figure 2). Following the initial mapping to a small genomic interval of chromosome 4, analysis of a larger population narrowed the critical region down to six predicted open reading frames (ORFs; Figure 2A). Sequencing of ORF At4g11150 from the EMS-induced mutant UU2573 revealed a G–A mutation at the splice-acceptor site of exon 4, suggesting that this ORF corresponded to the TUF gene (Figure 2B). This inference was confirmed by the analysis of T-DNA insertion line S08, which failed to complement the embryo lethality of the EMS mutant UU2573. The T-DNA was inserted in intron 1 of At4g11150 (Figure 2B). In addition, a 5.3-kb-long genomic fragment encompassing At4g11150 and adjacent intergenic sequences rescued the lethality of UU2573 (data not shown). The TUF gene encodes VHA-E1, one of three closely related isoforms of subunit E of vacuolar H+-ATPase in Arabidopsis (Figure 2D). RT-PCR analysis of mRNA extracted from UU2573 heterozygous plants yielded two abnormal TUF mRNA variants. About 70% of the mRNAs had a 49-bp deletion, resulting in a predicted premature stop codon. The truncated protein would consist of the N-terminal 136 of 230 amino acid residues of TUF protein plus four additional amino acid residues (Figure 2C, asterisk). About 30% of the mRNAs had a shorter ORF that would translate into a protein with an internal 17 amino acid deletion (Figure 2C, underlined). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether tuf mutant embryos accumulated detectable levels of mutant protein, wild-type and UU2573 mutant embryos were stained with antiserum raised against VHA-E from barley (CITATION). Wild-type embryos displayed endomembrane labeling whereas no specific signal was detected in tuf mutant embryos, indicating that the point mutation interfered with stable accumulation of TUF protein, and both genotypes displayed the control label for the plasma membrane H+-ATPase (Figure 3A–F). This result was confirmed by immunogold labeling of cryosectioned embryos (Figure 3G,H). The small vacuoles of wild-type embryos displayed strong VHA-E labeling whereas no such labeling was detected in tuf mutant embryos. These observations suggest that the tuf mutant phenotype results from the complete absence of VHA-E1. [[FIGURE]] The majority of TUF protein was detected at vacuolar membranes although some other endomembranes were also labeled (Figure 3G). We used a genomic TUF-GFP fusion that rescued tuf mutant plants to determine the subcellular localization of VHA-E1 in seedling root cells, which lack large central vacuoles (Figure 3I–N). TUF-GFP labeled endomembrane compartments whereas much less signal was detected at the plasma membrane, as shown by double labeling with a specific antibody for plasma membrane-localized H+-ATPase (PM-ATPase; Figure 3I–K). Treatment of seedling roots with the trafficking inhibitor brefeldin A (BFA) resulted in internalization of PM-ATPase, as previously reported (CITATION). These endosomal BFA compartments were also labeled by TUF-GFP, whereas adjacent patches were labeled by TUF-GFP but devoid of PM-ATPase labeling (Figure 3L–N; arrows). Additional large patches that were specifically labeled by TUF-GFP may represent small vacuoles characteristic of young root cells (Figure 3L–N). Thus, some TUF protein accumulated in endosomal BFA compartments and possibly also in surrounding Golgi stacks. However, direct double labeling for VHA-E and gamma-COP, a marker for cis-Golgi, showed no obvious overlap of the signals (data not shown). The Arabidopsis genome contains two additional genes (At3g08560, At1g64200) encoding isoforms 2 and 3 of VHA-E (Figure 2D; CITATION). Genomic GFP fusions of all three isoforms were generated and analyzed for expression in transgenic plants (Figure 4). TUF/E1 was strongly expressed in the developing embryo but not in the endosperm and only at low level in the surrounding maternal tissue (Figure 4A–C). E3 displayed a nearly complementary expression pattern during seed development: no or low-level expression in the developing embryo but strong expression in the endosperm and in the surrounding maternal tissue (Figure 4D–F). During post-embryonic development, E3 was expressed at low level mainly in the epidermis whereas expression of E2 was pollen-specific (J. Dettmer and K. Schumacher, unpublished data). During pollen development, TUF/E1 was initially expressed in the microspore but subsequently its expression was confined to the two sperm cells (Figure 4G). In contrast, E2 was expressed in the vegetative cell (Figure 4H), and E3 was expressed in both the vegetative cell and the sperm cells (Figure 4I). These results indicate that TUF/VHA-E1 is the major isoform in the developing embryo. Its expression in the sperm cells but not in the vegetative cell also provides an explanation for the fact that TUF/VHA-E1 is not required for the development of the haploid gametophyte, but only after fertilization in the developing embryo. The zygotic function of TUF/VHA-E1 contrasts with the requirement of VHA-A during gametophytic development (see accompanying paper by CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The embryo lethality of tuf mutants precluded the analysis of post-embryonic defects resulting from the loss of VHA-E1 activity. To circumvent this problem, Myc-tagged TUF was expressed under the cis-regulatory control of the cell cycle-regulated KNOLLE (KN) gene in the tuf mutant background (CITATION; CITATION). In six independent transgenic lines analyzed, the KN::Myc-TUF transgene rescued the lethality of tuf embryos (data not shown). However, in all six lines, the resulting seedlings were defective and did not develop into adult plants, although Myc-TUF protein was expressed and accumulated in endomembranes (Figure 5). All seedling organs were stunted. The cotyledons were roundish and yellowish-green, the hypocotyl was short and inflated, and the root was shortened and almost lacked root hairs except for a few at the hypocotyl–root junction (Figure 5A–E). Primordia of primary leaves were present but did not develop further (Figure 5B). The root meristem was reduced and disorganized as was the root cap (Figure 5E). Vascular strands were incompletely differentiated in the cotyledons and in the hypocotyl (Figure 5A,C). The hypocotyl appeared flattened, consisting of fewer internal cell layers, which moreover did not display the well-formed tissue organization characteristic of the wild-type hypocotyl (Figure 5F,G). The outer cell layers consisted of drastically shortened and enlarged cells, when compared with wild type. To determine whether cell elongation was affected, seedlings were grown in the dark. Hypocotyl elongation was observed in the transgenic seedlings, although to a much lesser extent than in wild-type seedlings (Figure 5H). These observations suggest that reduction in VHA-E1 activity impairs cell differentiation, which is comparable to the det3 phenotype resulting from reduced VHA-C activity (CITATION). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! 
