!~ABS~! Peroxiredoxins (Prx) have recently moved into the focus of plant and animal research in the context of development, adaptation, and disease, as they function both in antioxidant defense by reducing a broad range of toxic peroxides and in redox signaling relating to the adjustment of cell redox and antioxidant metabolism. At-PrxII F is one of six type II Prx identified in the genome of Arabidopsis thaliana and the only Prx that is targeted to the plant mitochondrion. Therefore, it might be assumed to have functions similar to the human 2-Cys Prx (PRDX3) and type II Prx (PRDX5) and yeast 1-Cys Prx that likewise have mitochondrial localizations. This paper presents a characterization of PrxII F at the level of subcellular distribution, activity, and reductive regeneration by mitochondrial thioredoxin and glutaredoxin. By employing tDNA insertion mutants of A. thaliana lacking expression of AtprxII F (KO-AtPrxII F), it is shown that under optimal environmental conditions the absence of PrxII F is almost fully compensated for, possibly by increases in activity of mitochondrial ascorbate peroxidase and glutathione-dependent peroxidase. However, a stronger inhibition of root growth in KO-AtPrxII F seedlings as compared with wild type is observed under stress conditions induced by CdCl2 as well as after administration of salicylhydroxamic acid, an inhibitor of cyanide-insensitive respiration. Simultaneously, major changes in the abundance of both nuclear and mitochondria-encoded transcripts were observed. These results assign a principal role to PrxII F in antioxidant defense and possibly redox signaling in plants cells. 
!~RES~! PrxII F Protein Sequences Contain Plant-specific Elements— PrxII F is one of six type II peroxiredoxins encoded in the Arabidopsis genome, and the only Prx targeted to Arabidopsis mitochondria (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). The alignment of Fig. 1 includes six PrxII F amino acid sequences from diverse higher plants, and one each from the moss Physcomitrella patens, Homo sapiens, and the cyanobacterium Synechocystis. Furthermore, two sequences encoding cytosolic Arabidopsis type II Prx were also compared as more distantly related genes. In addition to the amino acid sequence motifs typical for all type II Prx, such as the sequences adjacent to Cys-64 and Cys-89, PrxII F proteins from plants were characterized by three highly conserved domains not found in other type II Prx, suggesting early separation of the mitochondrial isoform from the other type II Prx. All PrxII F-like proteins possess a mitochondrial targeting sequence. These unique PrxII F sequence sites are positively charged and hydrophilic and are suggested to be important for function and interaction of PrxII F with other proteins, respectively. The plant PrxII F proteins are highly similar, for example the Oryza sativa PrxII F shows 73% identity to Arabidopsis PrxII F and from P. patens to Arabidopsis there is still a markable identity of 62%. It is interesting to note that up to now no expressed sequence tags of PrxII F homologues were reported from unicellular eukaryotes.    [[FIGURE]] In Vitro Peroxidase Activity Is Preferential for Reduction of Hydrogen Peroxides Rather than Reduction of Alkyl Hydroperoxides—Many Prx possess a broad specificity toward various peroxide substrates (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). In a previous study (CITATION), a heterologously expressed PrxII F protein catalyzed hydrogen peroxide reduction. However, a cytosolic type II Prx from poplar reduced complex lipid hydroperoxides almost as efficiently as hydrogen peroxide (CITATION). Both peroxide detoxification activities are important for mitochondria, because the generation of superoxide anion radicals in the mitochondrial ETC is linked to hydrogen peroxide production through Mn-SOD and possibly subsequent lipid peroxidation (CITATION). In an in vitro dithiothreitol-based assay, several lipid hydroperoxides were tested as substrates with truncated Δ-28AtPrxII F recombinant protein (Fig. 2A). This N-terminally truncated variant corresponds to PrxII F after cleavage of the mitochondrial targeting pre-sequence. Δ-28AtPrxII F showed the highest rate of activity with H2O2. Relative reduction rates of butyl hydroperoxide, cumene hydroperoxide, and lipid peroxides were about 50, 40, and 2–14%, respectively, proving a high preference of PrxII F for H2O2 (set 100%).    [[FIGURE]] Glutathione as Well as the Mitochondrial Trx System and Mitochondrial Atypical Grx Are Electron Donors for AtPrxII F—Oxidized Prx must be reduced prior to the next catalytic cycle. In vitro electron donors for Prx are thioredoxins, glutaredoxins, cyclophilins, and glutathione, respectively (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Although for poplar Prx II, a preference for the glutaredoxin system was shown (CITATION, CITATION), the Prx II of S. cerevisiae was reduced by thioredoxin (CITATION). Arabidopsis mitochondria contain a thioredoxin system, consisting of Trx and a NADH-dependent thioredoxin reductase (NTRA) (CITATION). Bioinformatic analyses of the Arabidopsis genome indicated that there are two glutaredoxins (CITATION) and two cyclophilins (CITATION) in Arabidopsis mitochondria, which could act as reduction partners of PrxII F. Therefore, in vitro activity tests were performed employing either recombinant AtTrx-o, AtNTRA, and NADPH on the one hand or recombinant AtGrx-CxxS10 (At3g21460; nomenclature according to Ref. CITATION) and glutathione on the other hand (Fig. 2, B and C) as reduction partners for PrxII F. Both systems regenerated reduced PrxII F. Glutathione alone was also capable of acting as an efficient electron donor to PrxII F.  Substrate-dependent dithiol-disulfide transition involving the Cys group in the active site of Prx induces major conformational changes with concomitant modification of quaternary structure and an electrophoretic mobility shift (CITATION, CITATION). For type II Prx, the formation of an intramolecular disulfide bond could be observed, whereas 2-Cys Prx form intermolecular dimers. For recombinant mature Δ-28AtPrxII F, both forms were observed, similar to the results obtained with recombinant AtPrxII B and AtPrxII E of Bréhélin et al. (CITATION). Oxidation with H2O2 produced a bandshift after loading recombinant PrxII F protein on an SDS-polyacrylamide gel (Fig. 2D). At lower H2O2 concentrations, the formation of the intramolecular disulfide bridge was predominantly observed, which could be distinguished from the reduced form by its slightly increased electrophoretic mobility. At higher H2O2 concentration, the presence of the dimeric form increased.  AtPrxII F Is Predominantly Located in the Mitochondrial Matrix—Beside the mitochondrial targeting peptide of 28 amino acids, the mitochondrial localization of the PrxII F protein can also be independently inferred from three different Arabidopsis mitochondria proteome projects (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION) and one rice proteome project (CITATION). An antiserum against PrxII F was generated by immunizing rabbits with purified recombinant protein from Arabidopsis. The antiserum was tested for cross-reactivity with other peroxiredoxins and was found to be specific for PrxII F (data not shown). In immunocytochemical studies using that antibody, a low number of clear signals were observed only for mitochondria of Arabidopsis leaves and roots (Fig. 3A). In order to address the question further, whether the PrxII F is attached to the membrane, as observed previously for the chloroplastic 2-Cys Prx (CITATION), or whether it is located in the matrix, isolated Arabidopsis mitochondria were subfractionated to isolate outer mitochondrial membrane, the intermembrane space, the inner mitochondrial membrane, and the matrix. An antibody against fumarase (CITATION) was used to exemplify the distribution of a matrix-localized enzyme. As shown in Fig. 3B, the dominant signal for PrxII F is in the matrix. Some signal was also observed in the inner mitochondrial membrane and intermembrane space fractions, but this most likely represents a small degree of cross-contamination during subfractionation, because a similar pattern is also seen with fumarase.    [[FIGURE]] Identification of Two Independent Arabidopsis tDNA Insertion Lines—Two independent Arabidopsis tDNA insertion lines (accession Columbia) were obtained from GABI-KAT (KO-PrxII F-1) (CITATION) and from the SAIL collection (KO-PrxII F-2) (CITATION), both with a tDNA insertion in the third intron of the prxII F gene (At3g06050) (Fig. 4A). The presence of the tDNA was confirmed by PCR with genomic DNA from both lines (Fig. 4, B and C). Segregation analysis for the proof of a single tDNA insertion was performed for both lines. For KO-PrxII F-1 from 98 germinated heterozygote T2 seeds, 73 seedlings, or 74.5%, were resistant to sulfadiazine, indicating a high probability of only one insertion locus in the genome. For KO-PrxII F-2, from 92 germinated heterozygote T2 seeds, 59 seedlings, or 64.1%, were resistant to phosphinotricin, indicating a high probability of only one insertion locus. RNA was isolated from homozygous T3 plants, and RT-PCR analysis confirmed the absence of PrxII F transcript in both lines (Fig. 4, B and C). Western blot analysis with the antiserum against PrxII F showed the total loss of PrxII F protein in both mutant lines (Fig. 4, B and C).    [[FIGURE]] Elevated Antioxidant Enzyme Activity in KO-PrxII F Mitochondria—The first phenotypical analysis of KO-PrxII F mutants was done in soil culture under standard growth conditions. No appreciable differences in biomass production, leaf size, or flowering between wild type (WT) and mutants could be observed (data not shown). There are two possible explanations for this lack of a growth phenotype. First, that absence of PrxII F had no major effect on mitochondrial biochemistry. Second, other mechanisms were induced to compensate for the loss of PrxII F. To address this issue, mitochondria from mature leaves of wild type and KO-PrxII F mutants were isolated, and respiratory activity as well as enzyme activities of selected trichloroacetic acid cycle enzymes and antioxidant enzymes were measured (Table I). The respiratory activity of the four complexes of the respiratory chain did not show a major alteration as a result of the absence of PrxII F protein, and only the activities of complex I and II were slightly decreased. Some enzymes of the trichloroacetic acid cycle, such as aconitase, the E2 subunit of the PDH and NAD-malic enzymes, are very sensitive to oxidative stress (CITATION, CITATION). However, the activities of NAD-malic enzyme, aconitase, and PDH were unchanged in the KO-PrxII F mutants in comparison to wild type. The activity of fumarase was significantly elevated in the KO-Prx II F-2 mutant. Taking a closer look at the antioxidant enzymes, it is very remarkable that the activities of the Apx as well as that of a Gpx are highly increased in the KO-PrxII F mitochondria in comparison to the wild type. Apparently, the loss of PrxII F protein decreases detoxification of peroxides in mitochondria, a process that is compensated for by increased activities of Apx and Gpx under control conditions.    [[TABLE]] Growth of KO-PrxII F Plants Indicates an Important Role of PrxII F in Root Growth under Conditions of Oxidative Stress— Respiratory energy production is particularly important in heterotrophic tissue with high metabolic activity. Accordingly, mitochondria are highly active in meristems and root growth zones and essential for rapid root growth. Root extension of KO-PrxII F was tested by growing seedlings vertically on sterile phytagel plates. Root growth was further stimulated by omitting nitrogen sources from the media. Among the stresses tested, like sodium chloride and copper, the strongest inhibitory effects on root growth of KO-PrxII F mutants as compared with wild type were seen in response to cadmium, to salicylhydroxamic acid (SHAM), an inhibitor of alternative oxidase (Fig. 5), and to antimycin A (data not shown). Root growth of KO-PrxII F-1 and KO-PrxII F-2 was stronger inhibited under cadmium and SHAM treatment than the root growth of wild type. In the case of cadmium stress, the degree of inhibition in KO mutants was increased by 60 and 27% as compared with wild type, and in the case of SHAM treatment by 41 and 19% for F-1 and F-2, respectively, indicating that fitness of the knock-out plants is reduced in oxidative stress conditions. In addition, on media supplemented with nitrogen, both treatments had stronger inhibitory effects on the KO-PrxII F mutants than on wild type (data not shown). To increase root biomass for subsequent biochemical analyses, the plants were grown on hydroponic culture supplemented with nitrogen for 5 weeks and then stressed with 10 μm cadmium or 25 μm SHAM for 1 week, respectively.    [[FIGURE]] Root Respiration and ATP Status—Cd2+ is highly toxic to cell metabolism because of its high affinity to sulfhydryl and amino groups. Furthermore, Cd2+ may substitute for Ca2+ and other metal cofactors in reaction centers of enzymes (CITATION). In relation to mitochondrial function, inhibitory as well as stimulatory effects of Cd2+ on respiration and increased permeabilization of mitochondrial membranes have been reported for plants and animals (CITATION). Particularly, at low Cd2+ concentrations, a stimulating effect on respiration and ATP production was often observed in plants (e.g. Refs. CITATION and CITATION). Root respiration of total roots was measured in a Clark-type O2 electrode. After measuring total respiration for 10 min, 7.5 mm SHAM was added to completely inhibit AOX, and residual respiration was determined. Both Cd2+ and SHAM stimulated respiration in wild type and KO-PrxII F-1 roots, and the ATP content increased (Fig. 6, A and B). This enhancement was stronger in the SHAM than in the Cd2+-exposed plants. The percentage of alternative respiration amounted to about 16–20% under control conditions. The figure increased to 30–44% in treated roots. Respiration of wild type and KO-PrxII F-1 roots was not significantly altered under control conditions nor in the presence of 10 μm Cd2+. In a converse manner, respiration of roots grown in 25 μm SHAM was significantly induced in KO-PrxII F-1 compared with wild type. Alternative respiration was similar in SHAM-treated WT and KO-PrxII F-1 plants, indicating that cytochrome oxidase-dependent respiration was stimulated more in KO-PrxII F-1 plants (by about 75%) than in WT. Although residual respiration was higher in KO-PrxII F-1, the ATP content was unchanged in comparison to WT plants treated with SHAM (Fig. 6B), probably due to elevated alternative NAD(P)H dehydrogenase activities or uncoupling leading to a reduction of proton motive force. Another possibility is that the stimulated respiration resulted from other O2-consuming enzymes. In plasma membranes of plant roots, a rapid SHAM-stimulated NADH oxidation was often observed, which is accompanied by O2 consumption and H2O2 production and can stimulate root respiration by up to 40% (CITATION, CITATION). However, these effects were not observed under concentrations below 1 mm SHAM (CITATION).    [[FIGURE]] Ascorbate and Glutathione Contents and Redox State in KO-PrxII F-1 Plants—Asc and glutathione participate in cellular redox homeostasis. Enzymes of the ascorbate/glutathione cycle for H2O2 reduction have been found in the chloroplast, cytosol, and mitochondrion. In addition, the peroxide detoxification activity of PrxII F was sustained with glutathione as an electron donor (Fig. 2B). Because activities of mitochondrial Apx and Gpx were increased in KO-PrxII F (Table I) and the last step of ascorbate synthesis is linked to the electron transport chain (CITATION), the question was addressed whether there is a change in ascorbate and glutathione pools in the roots of wild type and KO-PrxII F-1. An increase in total root Asc was seen upon Cd2+ treatment, both in WT (54%) and KO-PrxII F-1 (71%); Asc contents in SHAM-treated roots was unaltered. The reduction state of ascorbate was significantly increased from 65 to 73% reduced ascorbate in control conditions to 90–94% in Cd2+ treatment. Asc contents of WT and KO-AtPrxII F-1 were not significantly different in any treatment; however, there was a regular trend to decreased total Asc levels in KO-PrxII F-1, i.e. by 13–15% in control and SHAM-treated and 5% in Cd2+-treated plants (Fig. 6C). Moreover, DHA contents were 6–11% higher in control and SHAM treatment and 78% higher in Cd2+-treated roots. The ratio of Asc to DHA characterizes the cellular redox status and indicates elevated oxidative stress in KO-PrxII F-1 plants. All Asc/DHA ratios were decreased in the KO-PrxII F-1 roots compared with wild type (Fig. 6C). Root glutathione contents of KO-PrxII F-1 were significantly decreased by about 20% as compared with WT (Fig. 6D). Furthermore, the GSH/GSSG ratio was lower in KO-PrxII F-1 under control conditions and in SHAM-treated roots. Cd2+ and SHAM affected glutathione contents differently; total glutathione was unchanged by Cd2+ and increased in the presence of SHAM. The stress effects were opposite those seen on Asc contents. Whereas in Cd2+-treated plants the total glutathione content was unchanged, the GSH/GSSG ratio increased. Nevertheless, significant differences between WT and KO-Prx II F-1 were not seen upon Cd2+ and SHAM treatment.  Alterations in Nuclear Gene Expression in KO-PrxII F Mutants—To investigate whether the loss of PrxII F protein alters gene expression, transcript levels were analyzed by using macroarrays hybridized with root samples from standard growth conditions or following cadmium and SHAM treatment. The “redoxin array” was comprised of 143 redox-related transcripts with assumed importance in cellular antioxidant defense or redox regulation and included members of the gene families of Prx (10 genes), Grx (29 genes), cyclophilins (29 genes), Trx (41 genes), Apx (8 genes), superoxide dismutases (9 genes), and catalases (3 genes). The “chondriome array” on the other hand was fabricated with 114 cDNAs encoded by mitochondrial DNA and an additional 50 cDNAs from the nuclear encoded genes. 72 and 77 transcripts on the redoxin and chondriome arrays, respectively, were reliably detected with root-derived RNA probes. Fig. 7 summarizes all significant (p < 0.05, t test) or marginally significant differences (p < 0.1, t test) between KO-PrxII F and wild type. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR for selected transcripts essentially verified the results obtained from the arrays (Fig. 8, A and B). Moreover, transcripts of some genes that were not detected on the array could be quantified by RT-PCR.    [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] Upon cadmium treatment, 39% of these transcripts were distinctly regulated in the KO-PrxII F lines in comparison to WT, even though the magnitude of differences was relatively low. Under control conditions and SHAM treatment, this was still the case for about 10 and 14% of the transcripts, respectively. Because of this fact, the chondriome array was hybridized only with cDNAs from control and cadmium treatments. Gene families did not show uniform responses. Most interestingly, in all three treatments two cyclophilins, cyp40 and cyp63, were inversely regulated in the KO-PrxII F mutants compared with wild type. Expression of the cytosolic cyp40 declined from control to cadmium and SHAM treatment in the wild type roots. In a converse manner, its expression was relatively low under control conditions in the KO-PrxII F plants and increased strongly under cadmium and SHAM treatment (Fig. 8A). The transcript level of the nuclear cyp63 increased in the stressed wild type, whereas in the KO-PrxII F it was more than 2-fold higher under control conditions and decreased with cadmium and SHAM treatment. A similar but less pronounced trend was also seen for cyp71.  The transcript levels of the large gene family of Grx behaved very differently in the KO-PrxII F lines. Although under conditions of control and cadmium treatment, three and six members, respectively, were differentially regulated, none was found to be differentially regulated under SHAM treatment. Catalase transcripts were down-regulated under cadmium treatment in the KO-PrxII F lines. This effect was strongest for the cat1 transcript (Fig. 8A).  Superoxide dismutase transcripts were similar in KO-PrxII F and wild type. However, upon cadmium treatment, the plastidal csd2 and fsd3 transcripts increased in KO-PrxII F lines as compared with wild type (Figs. 7A and 8A). Transcripts of the three stress-inducible cytosolic type II prxII B, C, and D (CITATION, CITATION) were found to be partially increased in all three treatments in the KO-PrxII F lines (Figs. 7A and 8A). Unexpectedly, the cytosolic apx1 was not affected by the loss of PrxII F, and the transcript level of the strong stress-inducible apx2 was slightly decreased with SHAM treatment (Figs. 7A and 8A). In all three treatments, redox-related transcripts were differentially up- and down-regulated in the KO-PrxII F mutants as compared with the wild type.  By taking a look at mitochondrial antioxidant and redox-related transcripts, it is remarkable that the prxII F transcript was up-regulated under cadmium treatment and down-regulated under SHAM treatment in wild type roots (Fig. 8B). SHAM also decreased PrxII F protein levels (Fig. 8C). Although both treatments induce oxidative stress, they evoke totally different responses. Transcript levels of mitochondrial Mn-SOD (msd1), which converts superoxide anions produced from the ETC to H2O2, were unaffected by cadmium and SHAM treatment in wild type but dropped by a factor of 0.4 and 0.8 in the KO lines, respectively (Fig. 8B). As shown above, Apx activity was strongly increased in KO-PrxII F mitochondria. This increase was not observed at the transcript level under control and cadmium treatment, and only a strong increase of the s-apx (At4g08390) transcript was found in the SHAM treatment, which is doubly targeted to plastid and mitochondrion (CITATION).  As demonstrated above, the mitochondrial Trx and Grx systems act as reducing partners of PrxII F. Other interacting partners could be the mitochondrial Cyp 21-3 and Cyp 21-4. cyp21-3 transcripts decreased with cadmium and SHAM treatment, whereas this decrease was stronger in the KO-PrxII F lines (Fig. 8B). The grx-CxxS10 transcript was induced under control conditions in the KO-PrxII F lines as compared with wild type (Fig. 7A), whereas trx o-1 transcript decreased in cadmiumtreatmentandthetranscriptabundanceoftheNADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductase (ntr) increased (Fig. 8B).  The mitochondrial uncoupling protein (Ucp) was involved in the prevention of oxidative stress in mitochondria, by uncoupling ATP synthesis and dissipating excess reducing energy (CITATION). Most interestingly, the ucp2 transcript was reduced in abundance in the KO-PrxII F lines in comparison to wild type under control conditions and cadmium treatment. Although its transcript level decreased in wild type under SHAM treatment, it showed an increase in the KO-PrxII F lines (Fig. 8B).  Modification of Mitochondrial Gene Expression in KO-PrxII F Plants—Among the 77 transcripts reliably detected on the chondriome array, there were 59 mitochondria-encoded and 18 nuclear encoded transcripts for proteins with mitochondrial localization. 10 and 11 mitochondria-encoded genes were differentially regulated in the KO-PrxII F under control and cadmium treatment, respectively. The function of most of the proteins encoded by these ORFs is unknown.  Under control conditions, three transcripts of the F-ATP synthase were down-regulated, and one was up-regulated in the KO-PrxII F lines as compared with wild type (Fig. 7B). With the exception of orf 25, which is part of the FO subunit of the F-ATPase, none of these was affected by the cadmium treatment. The orf 25 transcript was drastically induced by cadmium treatment in the wild type and to a much lesser extent in the KO-PrxII F lines. Mitochondria-encoded subunits of NADH dehydrogenases (CITATION) were also up-regulated in the KO-PrxII F lines under control (nad 6, nad 9, and orf 131) and cadmium treatment (nad 7), as well as two different transcripts of ribosomal proteins (rpl 16 and rps 4). A set of genes with unknown function, i.e. orf 100 b, orf 106 f, orf 159, and orf 167, were up-regulated more than 1.6-fold in the cadmium treatment. For orf 167, this effect was more pronounced in RT-PCR analysis with a 12-fold induction as compared with 3-fold obtained in arrays.  Among the nuclear encoded mitochondrial transcripts, some enzymes of primary metabolism were affected by the loss of PrxII F protein. Transcript levels of the oxidative stress-susceptible aconitase were elevated in the KO-PrxII F lines in control and SHAM but not in cadmium treatment (Fig. 8B). The transcripts of the E1 and E3 subunits of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex and the P protein of the glycine decarboxylase were slightly down-regulated in the KO-PrxII F under cadmium treatment (Fig. 7B), whereas the transcript level of the succinate dehydrogenase (sdh1-1) was found to be induced (Figs. 7B and 8B). 
!~MM~! For growth on hydroponic cultures, Arabidopsis seedlings (ecotype Columbia) of wild type, KO-PrxII F-1, and KO-PrxII F-2 were germinated and grown on nutrient solution as described in detail (CITATION). The hydroponic medium contained 1.5 mm KNO3, 1.5 mm Ca(NO3)2, 0.25 mm MgSO4, 0.5 mm NH4H2PO4, 5 μm NaFe-EDTA, 0.4 μm ZnSO4, 1 μm KCl, 25 μm H3BO3, 2 μm MnSO4, 0.1 μm CuSO4, 0.1 μm (NH4)6Mo7O2, 0.5 mm MES (pH 5.25). Five-week-old plants were treated for 1 week with 10 μm CdCl2 or 25 μm SHAM, respectively. Nutrient solution was replaced every 2nd day. Growth chamber conditions were adjusted to a 10:14-h day/night cycle (22:20 °C) at light intensities of 120 μmol quanta m–2 s–1 with 50% relative humidity. Plants were harvested 3 h after the onset of illumination. Entire roots of 17 plants per experiment were pooled, immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at –80 °C.  For growth on plates, seedlings were grown for 10 days in a vertical position on 0.5% of phytagel with nutrient solution, where the macro-elements KNO3 and Ca(NO3)2 were replaced with equimolar amounts of KCl and CaCl2, to enhance root elongation. The plates were supplemented with 7.5 μm CdCl2 or 25 μm SHAM.  The first mutant allele KO-AtPrxII F-1 (GABI-Kat line114G01) was obtained from the GABI-Kat collection of tDNA insertion lines (CITATION), the second mutant allele KO-AtPrxII F-2 was obtained from the Sail collection (CITATION). Individual plants of the T3 generation were screened for tDNA insertion by PCR using gene-specific primers and primers anchored in the tDNA borders. Homozygous plants were identified by the absence of the PrxII F-PCR product obtained from gene-specific primers, which compose the tDNA insertion site. The following primers were used for the prxII F ORF: prxIIF-f, 5′-TCAAAGCTCGCGGAAGGCACT-3′; prxIIF-r, 5′-TTAGATCTGTCCTAAGA-3′; and the following primers were used for the tDNA left borders: GABI tDNA, o8409 5′-ATATTGACCATCATACTCATTGC-3′; Sail tDNA, 5′-TAGCATCTGAATTTCATAACCAATCTCGATACAC-3′.  Δ28-AtPrxII F was cloned as described previously (CITATION). For cDNA amplification of Atgrx-CxxS10, the following primers were used to obtain a product that lacks the N-terminal 7-amino acid signal peptide: grx-cxxs10-f, 5′-gcgtcgcaaagagcggtggt-3′, and grx-cxxs10-r, 5′-taaagccacaaagcaccagcct-3′. The cDNA was cloned in-frame into the pCR® T7/NT-TOPO vector (Invitrogen), which allows expression and purification of an N-terminally His6-tagged recombinant protein. Expression and purification of the recombinant proteins were performed as described (CITATION).  In vitro peroxidase activity of recombinant PrxII F was measured in two different assays.  Xylenol Orange Assay—PrxII F (1–30 μm) was maintained in its reduced state by 10 mm DTT or 0.5–5 mm GSH in presence or absence of 14 μm Grx-CxxS10, respectively. The reduction of H2O2, t-butyl hydroperoxide, cumene hydroperoxide, phospholipid hydroperoxide, and phosphatidylcholine dilinoleoyl hydroperoxide was measured in a time course over 2 min, in 20-s intervals. The remaining peroxides were detected by ferrous-dependent oxidation of xylenol orange (FOX). 20 μl of the reaction was incubated with 1 ml of FOX reagent for 5–15 min for different substrates, respectively. The absorbance was measured and compared with standard curves established for each substrate at 560 nm. The FOX reagent contained 25 mm H2SO4, 100 mm sorbitol, 250 μm FeII(NH4)2(SO4)2, and 125 μm xylenol orange, respectively. The activity tests were repeated 5–10 times with enzymes from two different preparations. Synthesis of phosphatidylcholine dilinoleoyl hydroperoxide and linoleic acid hydroperoxide was performed as described (CITATION).  Trx-dependent Activity Assay—The rates of H2O2 reduction were determined in a coupled assay with mitochondrial Arabidopsis thioredoxin-o (Trx-o) and NADPH-dependent thioredoxin-reductase (NTRA) by monitoring the decrease in A340 because of NADPH oxidation. The assay contained 100 mm MOPS-KOH (pH 7.4), 1 μm PrxII F, 3 μm AtTrx-o, 0.3 μm NTRA, and 1 mm NADPH in a final volume of 1 ml. The reaction was started by the addition of H2O2 to a final concentration of 1 mm and the change in A340 followed.  An antiserum against PrxII F protein heterologously expressed in E. coli was generated in rabbit (Pineda). For Western blot analysis, frozen plant material was ground to a fine powder in liquid N2, and proteins were extracted in a buffer containing 250 mm Tris-Cl (pH 6.8). The protein contents of the aqueous extracts were quantified spectrophotometrically using the Bio-Rad protein assay (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer's instructions. SDS-PAGE and Western blot analysis were performed as described (CITATION).  Immunocytochemical analysis was performed as described (CITATION). Sections of 1 mm2 were cut from 4-week-old Arabidopsis leaves of wild type and KO-PrxII F-1 plants and immediately fixed in 2.5% (w/v) glutaraldehyde in EM buffer (50 mm KH2PO4/Na2HPO4 (pH 7.0)) for 45 min. After dehydration in acetone gradients, the samples were embedded stepwise in Transmit EM resin (TAAB Laboratories Equipment). Ultrathin sections of 60–70 nm were cut with a diamond knife (DuPont) on an ultracut microtome (Reichert Ultracut E) and placed onto 400 mesh gold grids.  Samples were immunolabeled with rabbit anti-PrxII F antiserum (1:100) diluted in bovine serum albumin-containing Tris-buffered saline (BSA/TBS) supplemented with 0.05% (w/v) NaN3 for 1 h. Grids were rinsed five times with TBS and incubated for 1 h with gold-conjugated (15 nm) anti-rabbit IgG (Sigma) at a 1:30 dilution in BSA/TBS. Samples were counterstained with 0.1% (w/v) uranyl acetate (5 s) followed by 2% (w/v) lead citrate (5 s). Preparations were examined with a Hitachi H500 electron microscope at 75 kV.  Mitochondria were isolated from Arabidopsis rosette leaves as follows. All procedures were done at 4 °C; all apparatus and plasticware were detergent-free. Rosette leaves (20–50 g fresh weight) were harvested from 6-week-old Arabidopsis plants grown under short day conditions (8-h photoperiod), washed in sterile distilled water, and blotted dry on tissue paper. Mitochondria were extracted by homogenizing leaves using a pestle and mortar containing 4 volumes of extraction medium (0.4 m mannitol, 50 mm sodium pyrophosphate (pH 8.0), 0.5% (w/v) BSA, 1.0% (w/v) polyvinylpyrrolidone-40, 2 mm EGTA, 20 mm cysteine) and a small amount of acid-washed sand. The extract was filtered through Miracloth (Merck), and unbroken cells and chloroplasts were removed by low speed centrifugation (1000 × g, 5 min). Mitochondria were pelleted by high speed centrifugation (18,000 × g, 15 min) and resuspended in wash buffer (0.3 m mannitol, 10 mm TES-KOH (pH 7.5)). The rounds of low and high speed centrifugation were repeated. The resulting mitochondrial pellet was resuspended in 1 ml of wash buffer and layered onto a Percoll (Amersham Biosciences) gradient consisting of 0–5% polyvinylpyrrolidone-40 in 28% (v/v) Percoll in wash buffer. After centrifugation at 43,000 × g for 30 min, mitochondria were visible as a white/brown band toward the lower part of the gradient. Mitochondria were collected by aspiration and washed twice in wash medium. Mitochondria were further subfractionated into outer mitochondrial membrane, intermembrane space, inner mitochondrial membrane, and matrix according to Ref. CITATION.  Measurements of mitochondrial respiration were done as described previously (CITATION). Activities of aconitase, fumarase, NAD-malic enzyme, and pyruvate dehydrogenase were assayed according to Ref. CITATION. Apx was assayed according to Ref. CITATION. Gpx was assayed according to Ref. CITATION.  Root O2 measurements were performed similar to Ref. CITATION. Total roots from hydroponically cultivated plants were excised and directly transferred onto a high grade steel net in a Clark-type O2 electrode filled with 5 ml of an air-saturated 2 mm Ca(NO3)2 solution at 20 °C. SHAM was used as a respiratory inhibitor at a final concentration of 7.5 mm. Respiratory activity from single plant roots was recorded over 10 min.  For metabolite analysis 100 mg of frozen leaf and root tissue from hydroponic plants, respectively, were ground in liquid nitrogen. ATP contents were determined luminometrically according to Ref. CITATION. The frozen tissue was homogenized in 1 ml of ice-cold 5% HClO4 and centrifuged at 13,000 rpm at 4 °C. 10 μl of 2 m Tris was added to 500 μl of the supernatant, and the pH was adjusted to 7.4 with 5 m K2CO3. The cleared extract was diluted in 50 mm HEPES/KOH, 5 mm MgCl2 (pH 7.4). 10 μl of crude firefly lantern extract (Sigma) was added, and emitted light intensities were measured in a luminometer, which allowed for direct quantification of ATP when compared with authentic standards. For ascorbate and dehydroascorbate measurements, the tissue was extracted in 600 μl of ice-cold 1 m HClO4. Asc contents were determined spectrophotometrically via the oxidation of ascorbate with ascorbate oxidase as described previously in detail (CITATION). Reduced and oxidized glutathione were quantified as monobromobimane derivatives by fluorometric analysis after separation by reverse-phase high pressure liquid chromatography (CITATION). The tissue was homogenized in 500 μl of 5 mm diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid in 0.1 n HCl and centrifuged for 30 min (13,000 rpm, 4 °C). 150 μl of the supernatant and 90 μl of CHES buffer (1 m) were used for derivatization with 20 μl of monobromobimane (15 mm) in the presence or absence of 40 μl of 3 mm DTT, respectively. The derivatization was stopped after 20 min with 300 μlof 10% acetic acid.  Theme-specific “redoxin” and “chondriome” macroarrays were produced by spotting 143 and 165 gene-specific PCR products (100–300 bp in length, amplified from the 3′ end of the cDNA) in duplicate on Hybond N membranes (Amersham Biosciences). For the detailed array design see Kandlbinder.2   Plants were grown in hydroponic culture as described above. Digitoxin-labeled cDNA of wild type, KO-PrxII F-1, KO-PrxII F-2 from control, Cd2+- and SHAM-treated roots were synthesized from 5 μg of RNA and quantified as described previously (CITATION). Each cDNA from independent experiments (wild type, three experiments; KO-PrxII F-1, two experiments; KO-PrxII F-2, one experiment) was hybridized with an array filter of the redoxin and chondriome macroarrays, respectively. Array hybridization and data evaluation were performed as described previously (CITATION). The spot intensities were quantified with the AIDA array vision software (Raytest) and normalized according to whole intensity of all spots on the array. Data from KO-PrxII F-1 and KO-PrxII F-2 were pooled, and the normalized spot intensities were tested for each treatment against wild type by the use of Student's t test analysis (p < 0.05 and p < 0.1). To quantify differential expression of the KO-PrxII F lines, an induction factor was calculated by the ratio of the average normalized signal intensities of the respective treatment from the KO-PrxII F lines and wild type.  Total RNA was isolated from whole roots, and DNA was removed by DNase I treatment (Promega). 3 μg of total RNA was used for cDNA synthesis with 1 μl of Moloney murine leukemia virus-RT (Promega) using oligo(dT) as primers for 1 h at 42 °C. The resulting cDNA was diluted 1:10, and 1–4 μl of cDNA was used in 20-μl PCRs. The PCR settings were 1 cycle at 94 °C for 3 min, and for the optimized number of cycles for each gene product 15 s 94 °C, 30 s 50–56 °C, and 45 s 72 °C. Following separation of the PCR products, the bands were quantified densitometrically. Each band was normalized against the intensity obtained with the same cDNA using the actin-specific primers. The primers and gene code numbers were as follows: actin (At5g09810) fw, 5′-GGAGCTGAGAGATTCCGTTG-3′, and rv, 5′-GGTGCAACCACCTTGATCTT-3′; aconitase (At2g05710) fw, 5′-CAAGCAAACATGGAGCTTGA-3′, and rv, 5′-AAGCATTGTTGCCTCAGCTT-3′; t-apx 2 (At4g09010) fw, 5′-GCAAATCAACTTCGAGGCATA-3′, and rv, 5′-TTCAATGTCAAGAAAAATCTTTGG-3′; apx 1 (At1g07890) fw, 5′-GTGTGTGTCTCCCCGAGAGT-3′, and rv, 5′-CTAAGCAGCAAAAGCGCAAC-3′; ao (At4g39830) fw, 5′-CCGGATTGGTAAGATGGAGA-3′, and rv, 5′-TACCAACCCCGGTTCATTTA-3′; cat1 (At1g20630) fw, 5′-TGAAATCCTATAAACTCAATATGCTC-3′, and rv, 5′-AACAGGAACTAGTACCCTTCTTTAAGC-3′; cat2 (At4g35090) fw, 5′-CTTGATTGGCCTTTCTGTGG-3′, and rv, 5′-CGAGAGACACAACAACACACA-3′; cat3 (At1g20620) fw, 5′-GAGGCCAATCTCCATATAAGC-3′, and rv, 5′-GGAAGGAAACATGAGTTTTTGG-3′; cox-vb (At3g15640) fw, 5′-TCGTTATCCCTCGTCGTTTC-3′, and rv, 5′-CTTTCTCCAGCCAGAACCAG-3′; cyp21-3 (At2g47320) fw, 5′-TCAGGAGATCGAAGAGGTTGA-3′, and rv, 5′-GGGTTTCAAATTCACAAGAAAAA-3′; cyp28 (At5g35100) fw, 5′-GACGTATAAGCCGTCGGAGA-3′, and rv, 5′-GGCAAAGTTGGAGAGAGTGAA-3′; cyp40 (At2g15790) fw, 5′-TGGCTTGAAGTTTGACGATG-3′, and rv, 5′-CGAACAACACCCATTCCTTT-3′; cyp63 (At3g63400) fw, 5′-TGCTGACTTGCGAGTTTTTG-3′, and rv, 5′-CGATTCCCAAACTCAATTCTG-3′; cyp71 (At3g44600) fw, 5′-TCTTAGCATCTTTGCTACTGTCTCA-3′, and rv, 5′-CAAGAAGATGATGCCACCAA-3′; fd (At4g14890) fw, 5′-CACATTAAGATGATCCCTGAGGA-3′, and rv, 5′-GATTTCGAAGTCTCATAGCAAGA-3′; grx-CxxC10 (At5g11930) fw, 5′-GCACTTCACCTAAGTGGTCAGC-3′, and rv, 5′-GGCTAGACTTGAAAGAAAGAAAGAAA-3′; grx-CxxS13 (At1g03850) fw, 5′-TCCTCCTAAATCTAGTTGCCTTC-3′, and rv, 5′-TGATCAAACCAATCACGTAACA-3′; ndh (At5g11770) fw, 5′-TTGTATGATTGTCGCCGGTA-3′, and rv, 5′-CCACCAATGCAAGAAATCCT-3′; ntr (At2g17420) fw, 5′-TTGAGGCGTATGGTGATGAA-3′, and rv, 5′-CAGCAGTGATGGCCTGTCTA-3′; orf 167 (Bac Clone Y8501) fw, 5′-CGAAACCAGATCCCACTGTT-3′, and rv, 5′-GAGACCTCTCCCTTGTGCTG-3′; orf 25 (Bac Clone Y8501) fw, 5′-CAGCAATTCCCCAATCCTAA-3′, and rv, 5′-AAGACCACCAAGCTCTCTCG-3′; orf 159 (Bac Clone Y8501) fw, 5′-TAGTGGCTACTGGGCTCGTT-3′, and rv, 5′-TGGTATGGTAGCGGTTCACA-3′; 2-Cys prx A (At3g11630) fw, 5′-TCAGCAAAGAGTACTTCTCAGCTATT-3′, and rv, 5′-GGGGACAAAGTGAGAATCAAA-3′; prx II B (At1g65980) fw, 5′-AGCCAATGTCGAATCTGGTG-3′, and rv, 5′-CTTGGTTAATGTCTGAGAACAAGC-3′; prx II C (At1g65970) fw, 5′-GTTGAATCTGGTGGCGAGTT-3′, and rv, 5′-GCCAAGCAAGTCAAACACAT-3′; csd1 (At1g08830) fw, 5′-GCTGCTACGTTTCCAAAGAA-3′, and rv, 5′-CGGAATTTTCTCTGTTTTCTGTC-3′; fsd3 (At5g23310) fw, 5′-CTCAAGTCCCAAGTCCCAAC-3′, and rv, 5′-CTGTCACCATACAGGGCTCA-3′; put. msd (At3g56350) fw, 5′-TGCAAGAGCGGAGTACTTGA-3′, and rv, 5′-TCAACAAGACAAGAAACCCAAA-3′; msd1 (At3g10920) fw, 5′-CCAGTTCCAGCTCAGCTTTT-3′, and rv, 5′-TGTAAAACAACGTACCACACAGC-3′; sdh1-1 (At5g66760) fw, 5′-TCGAGCCCATGTTTTTA-3′, and rv, 5′-CATCGTTTCTGGTGTAAAACG-3′; trx o-1 (at2g35010) fw, 5′-TGAAGACCTAATCCGTTCTAGTAAA-3′, and rv, 5′-CATATGAAACATCTCATCATTATTTGG-3′; ucp 2 (At5g58970) fw, 5′-GCCCGGAATGCTATTGTAAA-3′, and rv, 5′-CCGTGTAAAATTCGGGAGAA-3′.  Statistical analyses were carried out with STATISTICA for WINDOWS software (version 5.5, Stat software). The significance of difference was tested at p < 0.05 by using analysis of variance with post-hoc LSD or Student's t test, as indicated. 
