!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana genome encodes three α-amylase-like proteins (AtAMY1, AtAMY2, and AtAMY3). Only AtAMY3 has a predicted N-terminal transit peptide for plastidial localization. AtAMY3 is an unusually large α-amylase (93.5 kDa) with the C-terminal half showing similarity to other known α-amylases. When expressed in Escherichia coli, both the whole AtAMY3 protein and the C-terminal half alone show α-amylase activity. We show that AtAMY3 is localized in chloroplasts. The starch-excess mutant of Arabidopsis sex4, previously shown to have reduced plastidial α-amylase activity, is deficient in AtAMY3 protein. Unexpectedly, T-DNA knock-out mutants of AtAMY3 have the same diurnal pattern of transitory starch metabolism as the wild type. These results show that AtAMY3 is not required for transitory starch breakdown and that the starch-excess phenotype of the sex4 mutant is not caused simply by deficiency of AtAMY3 protein. Knock-out mutants in the predicted non-plastidial α-amylases AtAMY1 and AtAMY2 were also isolated, and these displayed normal starch breakdown in the dark as expected for extraplastidial amylases. Furthermore, all three AtAMY double knock-out mutant combinations and the triple knock-out degraded their leaf starch normally. We conclude that α-amylase is not necessary for transitory starch breakdown in Arabidopsis leaves. 
!~RES~! Cloning of the Arabidopsis α-Amylase cDNA AtAMY3— BLAST searches of the Arabidopsis sequence data bank identify three genomic sequences (GenBank™ accession numbers AL161562, AC009978, and AC010675) that have sequence similarity to known α-amylase genes. These sequences have been designated AtAMY1, AtAMY2, and AtAMY3, respectively (CITATION). Full-length cDNA clones corresponding to these genomic sequences were also identified (Ceres clones CERES119931 and CERES3059 and GenBank™ accession number AY050398, respectively).  We obtained the full-length cDNA for AtAMY3 by screening an Arabidopsis cDNA library using the EST 135M15T7 as a probe. As reported by Stanley et al. (CITATION), comparison of the genomic sequence and the full-length cDNA sequence shows that it contains 12 introns (Fig. 1) with typical GT-AG dinucleotide splicing junctions in each case. The AtAMY3 gene (At1g69830), encodes a protein of 887 amino acids (Fig. 1), predicted to contain a chloroplast transit peptide of 56 amino acids (ChloroP, CITATION). The molecular mass of the predicted protein is 99.7 kDa, or 93.5 kDa following the cleavage of its transit peptide. The C-terminal domain (amino acids 497–887) shows ∼46% identity to rice extracellular α-amylases, but the N-terminal domain (∼50 kDa) shares no similarity to previously described α-amylase proteins.  [[FIGURE]]  Two domains of the novel N-terminal region (amino acids 31–160 and 235–375) have appreciable sequence similarity to domains of the N-terminal region of GWD1 of Arabidopsis and Solanum tuberosum (Fig. 2A). As with AtAMY3, the C-terminal region of GWD1 is believed to be responsible for its catalytic activity, and the function of the N-terminal region is not known (CITATION). Further analysis revealed that the two domains of similarity between AtAMY3 and GWD1 also represent repeated motifs of ∼90 amino acids within each of the proteins (Fig. 2, A and B). A second GWD1-like protein of Arabidopsis (GWD2, At4g24450) also contains a single copy of this conserved sequence in its N-terminal region (Fig. 2B).  [[FIGURE]]  The proteins encoded by AtAMY1 (At4g25000) and AtAMY2 (At1g76130) do not contain predicted chloroplast transit peptides or N-terminal regions similar to that of AtAMY3. Analysis using SignalP (CITATION) indicates the presence of a 24-amino-acid signal peptide that would target AtAMY1 to the secretory pathway (CITATION).  Presence of Sequences Similar to AtAMY3 in Other Plant Species—A gene encoding an α-amylase with an N-terminal domain similar to that of AtAMY3 has been reported from apple (MdAMY10, CITATION). We investigated whether similar α-amylase genes are present in other plants. A rice genomic sequence (OsAMY3, GenBank™ accession number AP003408) is similar to the AtAMY3 gene. Using RT-PCR, we obtained the corresponding rice cDNA. Genomic sequence analysis indicated that the rice OsAMY3 gene has an identical intron/exon structure to AtAMY3 and encodes a protein with 64% amino acid identity to AtAMY3 (data not shown). By BLAST-searching DNA data bases for sequences significantly similar to the part of the AtAMY3 cDNA encoding the unique N-terminal domain, we also identified ESTs from Lycopersicon pennellii (GenBank™ accession number AW399728), Lycopersicon hirsutum (GenBank™ accession number AW616948), Medicago truncatula (GenBank™ accession numbers AW689974, AW691339, BE322876), Glycine max (GenBank™ accession number BE801868), and Hordeum vulgare (GenBank™ accession number BG299837). The sequence similarity between these ESTs and AtAMY3 was not restricted to the GWD-like regions. Thus, it appears that AtAMY3-like genes belonging to the α-amylase family 3 proposed by Stanley et al. (CITATION) are present and expressed in both dicots and monocots.  Expression, Localization, and Activity of AtAMY3—Previous microarray studies have shown that AtAMY3 mRNA shows strong diurnal fluctuations that are under circadian control. Amounts increase in the latter part of the light period and decrease early in the dark period (CITATION, CITATION). We confirmed this pattern of expression using RNA gel blots with RNA isolated at several different time points from leaves of plants grown under a 12-h day/12-h night cycle (Fig. 3A). Protein isolated at the same time points was analyzed with immunoblots using an anti-AtAMY3 antibody raised against a recombinant AtAMY3 protein expressed in E. coli (see “Experimental Procedures”). In contrast to the mRNA level, we found that neither the amount of AtAMY3 protein (Fig. 3B) nor the amylolytic activity of AtAMY3 present in the leaf extracts (assayed by native gels, data not shown) showed strong diurnal fluctuations.  [[FIGURE]]  Two experiments were carried out to confirm the chloroplastic localization of the AtAMY3 protein. First, we performed immunoblot analyses on Arabidopsis chloroplasts that had been purified on a Percoll gradient and treated with protease. These chloroplasts were essentially free of cytosolic contamination (using activity gel assays for the cytosolic isoforms of phosphoglucose isomerase and phosphoglucomutase activity, data not shown). Immunoblotting of chloroplast extracts and total leaf homogenates with anti-AtAMY3 antibody revealed that both contained a reactive protein of 93 kDa (Fig. 4A, first and fourth lanes), which corresponds well to the predicted size of the mature protein. The amount of chloroplast protein analyzed on the blot was one-seventh the amount of protein of the total leaf homogenate, but the amount of AtAMY3 protein in these two fractions on the blot was comparable. This indicates strongly that the protein is chloroplastic. Second, we performed renaturation experiments in SDS-gels containing amylopectin using leaf homogenates and chloroplasts isolated from the homogenates. The gels were loaded such that each lane contained equal amounts of the chloroplast marker enzyme glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase. After electrophoresis and removal of SDS, an α-amylase activity with a molecular mass of 93 kDa could be renatured. This activity was present in a leaf homogenate and in chloroplasts prepared from the homogenate (Fig. 4B). A second band with greater mobility (a putative isoform of β-amylase, as it is unable to hydrolyze β-limit dextrin) was present only in the homogenate indicating that it is an extraplastidial enzyme. These two experiments thus confirm that AtAMY3 is located in the chloroplast.  [[FIGURE]]  To investigate the activity of AtAMY3, we isolated E. coli-expressed AtAMY3 protein (included amino acids 57–887) and the C-terminal domain of the protein (AtAMY3-ΔN, included amino acids 497–887). After separation by SDS-PAGE both recombinant proteins could be detected by immunoblotting with anti-AtAMY3 antibody (Fig. 5A) and could be renatured into an active state (Fig. 5B). Soluble starch was digested with these recombinant proteins, and the end products were analyzed by thin-layer chromatography (Fig. 5C). Both the full-length and the C-terminal domain of AtAMY3 liberated short malto-oligosaccharides together with trace amounts of glucose. The end products were similar to those released by commercially available Bacillus α-amylase. These results show first that the AtAMY3 protein has an endoamylolytic activity and second that the N-terminal domain of the protein is not required for this activity.  [[FIGURE]]  Leaves of the Arabidopsis mutant sex4, which have increased levels of starch, have previously been shown to contain reduced levels of a plastidial α-amylase activity (CITATION). Immunoblot and renaturation gel analysis confirmed that AtAMY3 protein and activity levels were reduced in this mutant (Fig. 4, A and B).  Transitory Starch Is Degraded Normally in Null Mutants of All Three AtAMY Genes—If AtAMY3 is an important enzyme for transitory starch degradation, null mutants lacking AtAMY3 would be expected to have reduced rates of starch degradation at night and should thus contain elevated levels of leaf starch. To discover whether this is the case, we isolated four independent AtAMY3 mutants with T-DNA insertions in the gene (Atamy3-1, -3-2, -3-3, and -3-4). Sequence analysis of each line revealed the T-DNA insertion sites in the AtAMY3 gene (Fig. 1), and expression analysis using either RNA gel blots or RT-PCR revealed that the AtAMY3 transcript was missing in all four lines (data not shown). The protein recognized by the AtAMY3 antiserum was missing in all of the lines (e.g. Fig. 6A), and renaturation of enzyme activities in amylopectin-containing gels revealed that the 93-kDa endoamylase activity was also abolished (e.g. Fig. 6B). Electrophoresis of crude extracts under non-denaturing conditions in polyacrylamide gels containing amylopectin revealed that the α-amylase band A2 was missing (e.g. Fig. 6C). This is the α-amylase band that is reduced in amount in the sex4 mutant (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]]  Leaves of the four mutant lines and their respective wild types were harvested at the end of the day and at the end of the night. Qualitative staining for the presence of starch (iodine staining) and quantitative measurements (by enzymatic digestion of starch to glucose) revealed no significant differences in leaf starch content in any of the mutants compared with the respective wild types (data not shown). In a more detailed experiment using the mutant line Atamy3-1, the starch content in leaves was measured throughout the diurnal cycle and compared with that of the corresponding wild type grown under the same conditions. The pattern of accumulation of starch during the light period and degradation during the dark period was very similar in the two lines (Fig. 7A). We measured malto-oligosaccharides at two time points during the day (8 h and 12 h) and at two points during the night (16 h and 20 h) using high performance anion exchange chromatography-pulsed amperometric detector. Amounts of oligosaccharides from maltose to maltohexaose were not significantly different in wild type and mutant plants (data not shown). In a second experiment we measured the sucrose and free hexose contents of leaves. Minor differences between the wild type and mutant were detected at some time points. However, the overall sugar contents of the two lines were similar (Fig. 7B). These results show that other starch-degrading enzymes can accomplish transitory starch degradation in the absence of AtAMY3 and that sugar metabolism, which is sustained by the products of starch breakdown at night, is not perturbed in any major way.  [[FIGURE]]  We identified T-DNA insertion mutations in the remaining two α-amylase genes, AtAMY1 and AtAMY2 (Fig. 8A). In both cases, the T-DNA insertion site was confirmed by sequence analysis and loss of expression verified using RT-PCR (Fig. 8B). Starch accumulation in the leaves of these mutants was assessed by iodine staining at the end of the day and at the end of the night (Fig. 8C). In both mutants, starch was present at the end of the day and absent at the end of the night indicating that starch metabolism was unaffected in these lines. No changes in the growth rate or morphology of these plants relative to the wild types were observed.  [[FIGURE]]  To determine whether there is redundancy of function within the AtAMY family, we created all double mutant combinations and the triple T-DNA insertion mutant (Atamy1:Atamy2: Atamy3-2). Iodine staining of leaves at the end of the day and end of the night indicated that starch accumulation and breakdown was normal in all double mutants (data not shown). For the triple mutant, starch content was assayed throughout the diurnal cycle. Starch accumulated normally in the light and was degraded in the dark in the triple mutant similarly to wild type grown under the same conditions (Fig. 9A).  [[FIGURE]]  We have shown that plastidial starch phosphorylase (AtPHS1) is not required for starch breakdown in Arabidopsis (CITATION). To discover whether the lack of a starch degradation phenotype in Atphs1 and Atamy3 mutants is the result of mutual redundancy, we tested for epistasis by creating a Atphs1:Atamy3-1 double mutant. Iodine staining revealed that starch accumulated normally in the light and was broken down normally in the dark in this double mutant (Fig. 9B). 
!~MM~! Plant Materials and Growth Conditions—Arabidopsis thaliana L. plants (ecotypes Columbia and Wasserilewskija) were grown in soil in one of two growth regimes: (a) 23 °C, 70% relative humidity, with continuous illumination at 100 μmol quanta m–2 s–1 and (b) 20 °C, 75% relative humidity, with a 12-h photoperiod at 150 μmol quanta m–2 s–1. Plants at growth stage 3.90 (CITATION) were used for all experiments unless otherwise stated. Arabidopsis-expressed sequence tag (EST)1 clones and SALK_005044, SALK_094382, and SALK_008656 seeds were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center at Ohio State University (Columbus, OH). The mutant lines SAIL_613 D12 and SAIL_642 G08 were isolated from seeds of the Syngenta SAIL collection (Torrey Mesa Research Institute, San Diego, CA), and the mutant Wisconsin 211 was obtained from the Wisconsin Arabidopsis Knock-out Facility (University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI). The sex4-2 mutant was isolated from ethyl methanesulfonate mutagenized M2 Arabidopsis seeds obtained from Lehle Seeds (Round Rock, TX) and the sex4–1 mutant was obtained from an x-ray generated population (CITATION).   General Molecular Analysis—Standard cloning, DNA blot, and RNA blot techniques were as described by Sambrook et al. (CITATION). The actin2 gene (At3g18780) was used as a constitutively expressed control in RT-PCR experiments. DNA sequencing was performed with double-stranded plasmids using an ABI 377 DNA sequencer (PE Biosystems, Foster City, CA). The DNA and protein sequences were analyzed with the GCG program (Genetics Computer Group, Madison, WI).  Isolation of cDNA Clones—To isolate the cDNA clone of Arabidopsis AtAMY3, an Arabidopsis cDNA library (Stratagene) was screened with a probe isolated from EST cDNA clone 135M15T7. To isolate cDNA clones of rice OsAMY3, primers were designed according to the genomic sequence (GenBank™ accession number AO003408). RT-PCR was performed with RNA isolated from rice leaves (Oryza sativa cv. TNG67) and Pfu DNA polymerase (Stratagene) as recommended by the suppliers. The PCR products from two independent reactions were cloned and sequenced.  Isolation of Chloroplasts—Chloroplasts were isolated either via protoplasts as described in Fitzpatrick and Keegstra (CITATION) for immunoblotting or mechanically as described in Zeeman et al. (CITATION) for renaturation gels. The chloroplast marker enzyme glyceradehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase was assayed as described in Zeeman et al. (CITATION). Chloroplasts isolated via the former method were purified on a Percoll gradient and treated with protease. Activity gel assays for phosphoglucose isomerase and phosphoglucomutase were conducted as described by Yu et al. (CITATION).  Measurement of Carbohydrates—Leaves were stained for starch using an iodine solution after first decolorizing them in 80% (v/v) ethanol. For quantitative measurements, samples comprising all the leaves of individual plants were harvested, immediately frozen in liquid N2, and stored at –80 °C. Samples were extracted using perchloric acid as described in Critchley et al. (CITATION). Quantitative assays of starch (in the insoluble fraction) and sugars (in the soluble fraction) were conducted as described by Hargreaves and ap Rees (CITATION) and Kunst et al. (CITATION), respectively. Malto-oligosaccharides (in the soluble fraction) were separated using high performance anion exchange chromatography on a Carbopac PA-100 column (Dionex) and measured using a pulsed amperometric detector as described in Critchley et al. (CITATION).  End Product Analysis of AtAMY3 Recombinant Proteins—To express AtAMY3 protein (included amino acids 57–887) and AtAMY3-ΔN protein (included amino acids 497–887), these regions were amplified by PCR and subcloned into BamHI site of an Escherichia coli expression vector pET30A (Novagen, Madison, WI). The constructs were confirmed by DNA sequencing and were transformed into E. coli strain BL21/DE3. The proteins expressed in inclusion body fraction after the isopropyl 1-thio-β-d-galactopyranoside induction were isolated and separated by SDS-PAGE in 10% (w/v) polyacrylamide gels as recommended by Novagen. Renaturation of the gel was performed as described above, and bands were excized, minced, and incubated with 2% (w/v) soluble starch. Separation of end products and standards by thin-layer chromatography on a silica gel 60 plate (Merck) developed with n-butanol: ethanol:water (5:3:2), and detection of oligosaccharides by diphenylamine and aniline was performed according to methods described by White and Kennedy (CITATION).  Non-denaturing and SDS-renaturing Gel Analysis—For non-denaturing (native) gels, the method described in Zeeman et al. (CITATION) was used. For the renaturation of enzyme activity from SDS-denatured proteins, two different methods were used.  Proteins from crude extracts of leaves were separated in 7.5% SDS-polyacrylamide gels containing 0.1% potato amylopectin or 0.1% β-limit dextrin. Gels were washed three times in 100 ml of incubation medium containing 100 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.0, 1 mm dithiothreitol, 1 mm MgCl2, 1 mm CaCl2 and then incubated for 16 h in the same medium. Amylase activities were detected with 0.67% (w/v) I2 and 3.33% (w/v) KI.  Recombinant proteins expressed in E. coli (see above) were separated in 10% SDS-polyacrylamide gels containing 0.2% soluble starch. To renature proteins, gels were washed at room temperature three times with 100 ml of 40 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, for 3 h and twice with 6 m urea, 1 mm dithiothreitol, 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, for 1 h. Gels were then washed with several changes of 1 mm dithiothreitol, 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, for 18 h at 4 °C. The renatured gels were incubated in 0.1 m Tris-HCl, pH 7.0, 2 mm MgCl2, 2 mm CaCl2, 10 mm β-mercaptoethanol overnight at 37 °C, and amylase activities were detected with 0.67% (w/v) I2 and 3.33% (w/v) KI.  Immunoblot Analysis—Standard immunology techniques were used as described by Harlow and Lane (CITATION). Proteins from leaf extracts were separated by SDS-PAGE in 7.5% or 10% (w/v) polyacrylamide gels and electroblotted to nitrocellulose membranes. Rabbit antisera were prepared against the E. coli expressed Arabidopsis AtAMY3 antigen and used as probes for the immunoblot analyses. The Arabidopsis AtAMY3 antigen was isolated from an E. coli strain carrying a plasmid with an EcoRI-HindIII 0.8-kb fragment of EST clone 135M15T7 into pET30C (Novagen). The primary antibody was detected with the Vectastain ABC kit (Vector Laboratories, Burlingame, CA). 
