!~ABS~! Activity of the plant mitochondrial alternative oxidase (AOX) can be regulated by organic acids, notably pyruvate. To date, only two well-conserved cysteine residues have been implicated in this process. We report the functional expression of two AOX isozymes (Sauromatum guttatum Sg-AOX and Arabidopsis thaliana At-AOX1a) in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Comparison of the response of these two isozymes to pyruvate in isolated yeast mitochondria and disrupted mitochondrial membranes reveals that in contrast to At-AOX1a, Sg-AOX activity is insensitive to pyruvate and appears to be in a constitutively active state. As both of these isozymes conserve the two cysteines, we propose that such contrasting behaviour must be a direct result of differences in their amino acid sequence and have subsequently identified novel candidate residues.
!~RES~! CITATION shows typical oxygen uptake traces for mitochondria isolated from S. pombe cells expressing either Sg-AOX (CITATIONA) or the At-AOX1a (CITATIONB) protein. On average, mitochondria expressing Sg-AOX or At-AOX rapidly oxidise NADH (99±27 and 94±30 nmol O2 min−1 mg−1, respectively), the rate of which can be significantly stimulated by the uncoupling agent CCCP (∼2.5 fold). Upon addition of an inhibitor of the cytochrome pathway, such as antimycin A, mitochondria isolated from cells expressing the Sg-AOX (CITATIONA) exhibit a significant rate of oxygen consumption (53±17 nmol O2 min−1 mg−1) which is not stimulated by the addition of 8 mM pyruvate (51±17 nmol O2 min−1 mg−1, see also CITATION). In contrast to Sg-AOX, however, NADH oxidation by S. pombe mitochondria containing At-AOX1a (CITATIONB) is inhibited more severely by the addition of antimycin A (to 13% of uncoupled rate in comparison with 21% for Sg-AOX). Strikingly, the subsequent addition of pyruvate leads, on average, to a 1.4-fold stimulation of this antimycin A-insensitive rate (from 29±13 to 42±16 nmol O2 min−1 mg−1), resulting in an activity comparable to that observed in Sg-AOX mitochondria in the absence of pyruvate (cf. CITATIONA). The resulting antimycin A-insensitive oxygen uptake is fully inhibited by addition of 2.5 μM octyl gallate, an AOX inhibitor, which confirms that, as with Sg-AOX, At-AOX1a is successfully targeted to and functionally incorporated within the mitochondrial membrane of S. pombe. Substitution of pyruvate with glyoxylate addition yields a similar degree of respiratory stimulation only in At-AOX1a, whilst addition of succinate does not affect the activity of either AOX isozyme (data not shown). Whilst significant, the 1.4-fold-stimulation of At-AOX1a upon addition of pyruvate (CITATIONB) is considerably lower than that observed for At-AOX1a in E. coli membranes (typically 4-fold CITATION) or other AOX proteins in isolated plant mitochondria (e.g. soybean CITATION), and may indicate that At-AOX1a is partially activated in S. pombe mitochondria by residual endogenous pyruvate. The relatively high level of Sg-AOX activity observed in isolated S. pombe mitochondria in the absence of added pyruvate may thus reflect either an insensitivity of this isozyme to organic acids (CITATIONA) or simply that Sg-AOX1a has a higher affinity than At-AOX1a for pyruvate. It has previously been demonstrated that activation of AOX by pyruvate only occurs with thiol-reduced protein CITATION and hence it was considered important to ascertain the extent to which proteins from both isozymes were in their reduced state. CITATIONC reveals that both At-AOX1a and Sg-AOX samples contain similar amounts of protein that is predominantly in the reduced (∼32 kDa) form. Closer inspection of CITATIONC (lane 1) indicates that there is some degree of high molecular weight banding (60 to 250+ kDa) in the Sg-AOX samples which is absent in At-AOX1a samples (lane 2). Although the reason for this banding is at present unclear, it should be noted that it disappears following thiol treatment suggesting that the banding is redox-sensitive (data not shown). Since the antimycin A-insensitive NADH-dependent respiratory activity observed in CITATION is a result of the combined activities of AOX and an external NADH dehydrogenase, any respiratory stimulation caused as a result of pyruvate addition may not necessarily be due solely to activation of AOX. A further potential complication is the fact that pyruvate itself is oxidised (though poorly) by S. pombe mitochondria, which could result in increased respiratory activity mediated by additional substrate dehydrogenases. To assess whether the different effects of pyruvate on NADH oxidation (CITATIONA and B) reflect a direct effect on AOX, we determined the kinetic dependence of At-AOX1a and Sg-AOX activity upon the redox poise of the ubiquinone (Q)-pool (e.g. CITATION). In mitochondria isolated from At-AOX1a expressing cells, AOX activity increases with increasing Q-reduction in a manner that can be modelled by a curve representing QH2-oxidising pathway kinetics (CITATIONA, open circles). In the presence of pyruvate, however, oxidase activity is significantly higher at all levels of Q-reduction (1.5- to 2-fold), such that a separate description of QH2-oxidising pathway kinetics is required to model these data (CITATIONA, closed circles), indicating that At-AOX1a activity can be stimulated directly by pyruvate. In the absence of pyruvate, mitochondria from cells expressing the Sg-AOX protein (CITATIONB, open circles) display an overall higher activity at all Q-reduction values than the equivalent activity observed with the At-AOX1a protein. This activity is unaffected by the presence of pyruvate to the point that all data obtained, in the absence or presence of pyruvate, can be readily described by a single model (CITATIONB). These data further confirm that, in contrast to the At-AOX1a protein, Sg-AOX is insensitive to addition of this organic acid. Importantly, the kinetic description of Sg-AOX activity is remarkably similar to that of At-AOX1a activity obtained in the presence of pyruvate (CITATION, compare panels A and B). Thus although the Sg-AOX protein, unlike At-AOX1a, is insensitive to pyruvate addition, it does appear to be expressed in a constitutively active state in isolated S. pombe mitochondria. As discussed above it is conceivable that the difference observed with the two AOX proteins expressed in isolated S. pombe mitochondria (cf. CITATIONA, B and CITATIONA, B) is due to the presence of concentrations of endogenous pyruvate that are sufficiently high to partially activate At-AOX1a, whilst fully activating Sg-AOX. Preliminary experiments (data not shown) indicated that pre-incubation of mitochondrial samples with lactate dehydrogenase, to remove endogenous pyruvate, did not have any significant effect on the antimycin A-insensitive oxygen uptake rate for At-AOX1a or Sg-AOX, either in the absence or subsequent presence of added pyruvate. To determine conclusively whether endogenous pyruvate levels could account for the observed differences between the responses of At-AOX1a and Sg-AOX, we assessed the sensitivity of each AOX isozyme to pyruvate using isolated mitochondrial membrane fractions. Typical respiratory traces obtained with such membrane fractions are summarised in CITATION. Although a considerable variation in respiratory activity was observed between different preparations (average antimycin A-insensitive rates in the presence of both pyruvate and DTT were 18±5 and 25±11 nmol O2 min−1 mg−1 for At-AOX1a and Sg-AOX, respectively), the same trend in the response of each isozyme to pyruvate was observed in all independent preparations. Despite the anticipated loss of respiratory activity following disruption of isolated mitochondria (cf. CITATION), At-AOX1a consistently exhibits a considerable dependence upon added pyruvate for activity, as indicated by the four-fold stimulation of respiration (CITATIONA), which in turn could be further increased by the addition of DTT (from 16 to 21 nmol O2 min−1 mg−1). In contrast, antimycin-A-insensitive activity in Sg-AOX containing membranes mirrors the situation observed in intact mitochondria (see CITATIONA), namely significant activity is observed in the absence of added organic acids (CITATIONB, 14 nmol O2 min−1 mg−1) which cannot be further stimulated by pyruvate or DTT.
!~MM~! S. pombe cells (strain Sp.011, ade6-704, leu1-32, ura4-D18, h−) were batch-cultured in glucose minimal medium CITATION supplemented with 0.4 mM adenine and 0.7 mM uracil. Cells were grown in the absence of thiamine to promote AOX expression under the control of the nmt1 promoter CITATION. A cDNA construct comprising the open reading frame from pAOX encoding mature At-AOX1a CITATION fused to the cDNA encoding the N-terminal leader sequence of Sg-AOX (termed SgL), was generated as follows. The SgL sequence was amplified from pSLM-AO CITATION using the primers AGGTGCACGGCCCACGTGG and CAGCGTGCTAGCGTGGCGG to introduce an NheI restriction site (underlined) at the 3′ end. The PCR product was treated with polynucleotide kinase and sub-cloned into SmaI-digested pUC18. The SgL sequence was excised as a XhoI–NheI fragment from pUC18 and cloned into the corresponding sites of pSL1180 (Amersham Biosciences), yielding plasmid pSGL11. The PCR product was verified by sequencing. A construct of At-AOX1a fused to the 3′ end of SgL was generated by ligating an NheI–XbaI fragment from pAOX into the NheI site of pSGL11. Finally, this construct was inserted as a BspHI–EcoRV fragment into the NcoI–SmaI site of the yeast expression vector pREP1/N (a modified version of pREP1 CITATION in which the NdeI site was replaced with NcoI) yielding the plasmid pSgLAtAO. Plasmids containing either the full-length cDNA sequence of SgAOX (pREP-AOX CITATION) or the SgL-AtAOX fusion (pSgLAtAO) were transformed into S. pombe using a modified lithium acetate procedure CITATION. Other methods were as described by Sambrook et al. CITATION. Mitochondria were isolated using a method based on CITATION. Several modifications were made to improve activity. Zymolyase 20T (ICN Biomedicals, Aurora, OH, 5 mg per gram FW) and lysing enzyme (Sigma L-1412, 15 mg per gram FW) were removed from spheroplast preparations by 3-fold dilution in spheroplast wash medium (SW: 0.75 M sorbitol, 0.4 M mannitol, 10 mM MOPS/NaOH, pH 6.8). Subsequently, spheroplasts were harvested by centrifugation (270× g, 15 min, 4 °C), washed in SW, and then gently lysed by resuspension of pellets in mannitol wash medium (MW: 0.65 M mannitol, 2 mM EGTA, 10 mM MOPS/NaOH, pH 6.8) using a glass homogeniser. Remaining intact spheroplasts were removed (5 min, 2200× g, 4 °C) and centrifugation of the resulting supernatants (12100× g, 10 min, 4 °C) yielded crude mitochondrial pellets which were pooled and washed in MW (12100× g, 10 min, 4 °C). The final mitochondrial pellet was resuspended in 1 ml MW and kept on ice until further use. Matrix-depleted S. pombe mitochondrial membranes were isolated using well-established procedures CITATION. The protein content of intact mitochondrial samples and membrane fractions was determined according to CITATION using BSA as a standard. Oxygen consumption rates and steady-state ubiquinone (Q) reduction levels were determined as previously described CITATION in a reaction volume of 2.4 ml containing 0.5–1.3 mg total mitochondrial protein or 0.2–1.0 mg protein from the mitochondrial membrane fraction. The redox poise of the Q-pool was modulated through step-wise additions of NADH (to a maximum of 30 μM) in the presence of 2.5 units ml−1 of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.49) and 5 mM glucose-6-phosphate to ensure steady-state sub-saturating levels of NADH were maintained (see CITATION). Other additions were made as described in the legends to CITATION . Separation of mitochondrial protein (stored at −20 °C) on non-reducing SDS–polyacrylamide gels, transfer to nitrocellulose membranes and detection of AOX protein with monoclonal antibodies to the Sg-AOX CITATION were performed as described previously CITATION.
