!~ABS~! NADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductases (NTR) are homodimeric enzymes that reduce thioredoxins. Two genes encoding NADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductases (AtNTRA and AtNTRB) were found in the genome of Arabidopsis thaliana. These originated from a recent duplication event and the encoded proteins are highly homologous. Previously, AtNTRA was shown to encode a dual targeted cytosol and mitochondrial protein. Here, we show that the AtNTRB gene encodes two mRNAs, presumably by initiating transcription at two different sites. The longer mRNA encodes a precursor polypeptide that is actively imported into mitochondria by a cleavage-associated mechanism, while the shorter mRNA encodes a cytosolic isoform. Isolation of Arabidopsis mutants with knocked-out AtNTRA or AtNTRB genes allowed us to prove that both genes encode cytosolic and mitochondrial isoforms. Interestingly, AtNTRB appeared to express the major mitochondrial NTR, while AtNTRA expresses as the major cytosolic isoform, suggesting that these two recently duplicated genes are evolving towards a specific function.
!~RES~! The predicted peptide sequence of the AtNTRB gene exhibits two in frame ATGs, suggesting that two proteins may be synthetized from this gene. One single full-length cDNA (RAFL R50176) was found in the Arabidopsis databases (www.arabidopsis.org/Blast/). Nevertheless, a cDNA (Z23109) originally isolated by Jacquot et al. CITATION exhibits a longer 5′UTR than RAFL R50176, suggesting that an upstream start site should exist (CITATION ). In order to identify additional 5′UTR sequences, we performed RLM-RACE experiments. Two different 5′ ends were identified. The more distal one was found 219 bp upstream from the first ATG. The corresponding mRNA was called AtNTRBm. From this mRNA, translation initiation should then be possible at the two predicted ATGs. A second transcription initiation site was found 100 bases more downstream (i.e., 4 bases downstream from the first ATG). The coded mRNA (called AtNTRBc) is likely involved in translation initiation at the second ATG. Interestingly, both putative start sites were located upstream from the 5′ end predicted by both previous full-length cDNAs (RAFL R50176 and Z23109), indicating that these latter clones are not complete. These data suggest that a multiple transcription initiation mechanism may occur within the AtNTRB gene. Alternatively, we cannot exclude that a single long mRNA is synthesized and is processed at two different sites (−219 and −119). Similarly, the AtNTRA gene was previously shown to produce two mRNAs coding for mitochondrial and cytosolic isoforms CITATION. Multiple transcription initiation sites or alternative splicing of pre-mRNA are often associated with tissue specific expression and/or developmental regulation CITATION. In order to study the steady-state level of the two NTRB transcripts in different plant organs, we performed semi-quantitative RT-PCR experiments, using primers designed to discriminate between the two cDNAs. We first checked that these primers are specific to NTRB transcripts and do not cross react with NTRA mRNAs (data not shown). One combination of oligonucleotides was designed to detect the longer 5′UTR mRNA (CITATION , AtNTRBm) and the other was able to amplify both transcripts (CITATION, AtNTRBc). The PCR signal corresponding to the shorter 5′UTR mRNA (AtNTRBc) could be detected after 25 PCR cycles, while 30 cycles were necessary to detect the larger mRNA (AtNTRBm). This suggests that the shorter cDNA is much more abundant (about 25 =32 times) than the longer cDNA. This was confirmed by Northern-blot experiments, in which only the AtNTRBc mRNAs were detectable (data not shown). It is also consistent with the fact that among the five ESTs found in the Arabidopsis databases, none matches the 5′UTR of the AtNTRBm mRNA. Thus, we assume that the RT-PCR represented in CITATION (panel AtNTRBc) is mainly representative of the expression of the shorter cDNA. Both mRNAs were found in all organs of the plant. However, slight differences were found in the pattern of accumulation of the two mRNAs. Whereas the steady-state level of the AtNTRBc mRNA was constitutive in all plant organs, the AtNTRBm mRNA was less abundant in roots and stems than in other organs. This suggests that a fine regulation of the transcription of the two mRNAs occurs in distinct plant organs. We also searched for differential expression of the two cDNAs in response to different stress conditions. None of these conditions had any impact on the accumulation of the two mRNAs (data not shown). The predicted amino acid sequence of AtNTRB was aligned with AtNTRA (CITATION A). As previously described CITATION, the core region of the two proteins is highly conserved (89% identity). However, the N-terminal regions are much more divergent (28% identity). Prediction of secondary structure suggested that amino acids 4–20 of AtNTRB are folded into an α-helical structure. This region has a high content of positively charged residues and hydrophobic amino acids, characteristic of the amphipathic α-helices of mitochondrial translocation signals (CITATIONB). This amphipathic α-helix is even more pronounced than that previously determined in the AtNTRA N-terminal region CITATION (CITATIONB). In order to provide evidence that AtNTRB is actively imported into mitochondria, we performed import experiments (CITATION ). Two major proteins of about 42 and 37 kDa were obtained after transcription/translation experiments, indicating that the long mRNA is able to initiate translation at both ATGs. After incubation of the translation products with purified mitochondria, an additional band appeared slightly above the cytosolic form. This form is resistant to proteinase K treatment, in contrast to the mitochondrial precursor and the cytosolic form. The protection is abolished when mitochondrial membranes are solubilized with Triton X-100 before proteinase K treatment. AtNTRB import is inhibited when the electrochemical membrane potential is abolished in the presence of the ionophore valinomycin (CITATION). This indicates that the mitochondrial AtNTRB precursor protein is processed to a mature form that is imported into mitochondria via an active process that depends on the membrane potential. To assess that AtNTRB was able to encode a mitochondrial protein, we tried to detect AtNTRB in purified mitochondrial fractions. However, the antibodies that are used to detect AtNTR are not able to discriminate between AtNTRA and AtNTRB. Moreover, the two proteins have about the same MW and can be hardly separated on SDS–PAGE gels (data not shown). Therefore, to discriminate between the two isoforms, we isolated knock-out mutants in both AtNTRA and AtNTRB genes. T-DNA insertion lines in both AtNTRA (SALK_539152) and AtNTRB (SALK_545978) genes were found in the SALK library CITATION (www.arabidopsis.org/Blast/). For both lines, insertions borders have been sequenced: in SALK_539152, a single T-DNA integrated 21 bp downstream from the second ATG, while in SALK_545978, two T-DNAs have been inserted head to tail, 39 bp downstream from the intron border (CITATION A). Homozygous plants have been obtained and segregation on selective medium suggests that both mutants are monogenic for the insertion (data not shown). In order to assess that insertions impaired gene functions, steady-state mRNAs of the two genes were detected by RT-PCR in ntra and ntrb mutants using gene specific oligonucleotides. As expected, AtNTRA and AtNTRB mRNAs were undetected in the ntra and ntrb mutants, respectively (CITATIONB), indicating that AtNTRA and AtNTRB were inactivated in the respective ntra and ntrb mutants. Mitochondrial and cytosolic fractions were prepared from wild-type Col-0 ecotype and from ntra and ntrb mutant lines. Purity of the respective fractions was checked by hybridizing Western-blots with antibodies recognizing typical cytosolic (i.e., AtTRXh3) and mitochondrial (subunit 9 of NADH dehydrogenase: Nad9) proteins. In wild-type plants, two close bands were detected in the mitochondrial fractions after immunoblotting with the anti-NTR antibodies, the lower band (∼37 kD) being much stronger than the upper band (∼38 kD). Interestingly, in each of the two mutants, one single band was detected: the lower band in the ntra mutant and the higher band in ntrb (CITATION ). This clearly indicates that both NTRA and NTRB proteins are localized in the mitochondria. Moreover, respective levels of the two bands strongly suggest that NTRB is the major mitochondrial NTR isoform in Arabidopsis. The difference in the mobility of the two proteins also showed that both processed proteins have a different molecular weight, NTRAm being slightly larger than NTRBm. This would be in agreement with respective cleavage sites predicted by the TargetP software (www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) as indicated in CITATIONA. In cytosolic fractions, a unique protein of about 35 kDa was detected (CITATION). This is in agreement with the molecular weight of the cytosolic NTR proteins predicted by their peptide sequences, both proteins having almost the same MW. The band decreases dramatically in the ntra mutant plants. However, mutation of the ntrb genes did not affect the cytosolic NTR (CITATION). These data indicate that the NTRA protein is the major cytosolic NTR in Arabidopsis. Interestingly, when the same blot was hybridized with anti-TRXh3 antibodies, the level of the cytosolic AtTRXh3 protein was found to be elevated in the ntra mutant, in comparison to wild-type and ntrb plants. One explanation for this observation would be that the pool of reduced cytosolic thioredoxin is perturbed in the context of this mutant, overproduction of thioredoxin being a rescue strategy to reconstitute a pool of reduced cytosolic thioredoxin. There have been many reports describing dual mitochondrial and chloroplastic targeting of proteins in plants, including several redox proteins CITATION. Our data apparently dismiss such a dual targeting mechanism for AtNTRA and AtNTRB, as none of these proteins were detected in purified plastid fractions (CITATION and data not shown). Therefore, the transit peptides of AtNTR probably have specific features for import into the mitochondrion CITATION. Indeed, an alternative thioredoxin reductase system (ferredoxin-dependent) is present in the chloroplast. Moreover, an NADPH dependent thioredoxin reductase called NTRC that is targeted to the chloroplast has recently been described in rice and Arabidopsis CITATION. Our in vitro transcription/translation data suggest that the large mRNA is able to translate both mitochondrial and cytosolic isoforms. So, the signification of the synthesis of two AtNTR mRNAs is still unclear. A simple explanation would be to maintain stoichiometric proportions for each isoform. The shorter mRNA being more highly expressed would produce a larger pool of the cytosolic NTRB isoform, while the longer mRNA would maintain a more limited pool of the mitochondrial isoform. Our expression data also indicate that the accumulation of the two messengers is also regulated in a tissue-specific manner. Thus, alternative transcripts may be used to accommodate requirements for elevated expression of the NTRB isoforms in distinct plant organs. Nevertheless, it remains to be determined whether the two protein isoforms also differentially accumulate in plant organs. Our in silico studies using plant genomic databases, including rice and alfalfa, revealed several NTR genes that potentially code for both cytosolic and mitochondrial isoforms. It has recently been demonstrated that mammalian, insect and parasite thioredoxin reductase genes exhibit differential transcript splicing, resulting in the generation of mitochondrial and cytosolic proteins CITATION. Thus, the regulation of NTR gene expression by an alternative transcript mechanism seems to be a common mechanism within higher eukaryotes. In plants, double transcription initiation and alternative use of two in-frame initiation codons have also been previously described for dual mitochondrial and cytosolic targeting of aminoacyl tRNA synthetases CITATION. Recent studies have demonstrated that a large part of the Arabidopsis genome results from large-scale duplication events CITATION. Detailed analysis of the duplications indicates that AtNTRA and AtNTRB originated from a recent duplication (∼40 million years) CITATION. As both AtNTR genes harbor a dual mitochondrial and cytosolic targeting, it is tempting to suggest that this mechanism already existed in the common ancestral gene. Supporting this hypothesis, one single NTR ortholog (OSJNBb0039F24.13) potentially coding for both cytosolic and mitochondrial isoforms was found in the completely sequenced rice genome. Speciation of rice and Arabidopsis having occurred earlier than the predicted AtNTR gene duplication event, it would be consistent that this rice ortholog corresponds to the common ancestor of AtNTR genes. Our data clearly show that AtNTRA encodes the main cytosolic NTR and AtNTRB is the predominant mitochondrial isoform. Interestingly, in budding yeast, cytosolic and mitochondrial NTR are, respectively, encoded by TRR1 and TRR2 genes CITATION. According to Wolfe (http://wolfe.gen.tcd.ie/), these two genes originated from an ancient duplication event. This may suggest that, similarly to yeast, these two recently duplicated Arabidopsis gene products are, respectively, evolving to specialized cytosolic or mitochondrial functions. One can hypothetize that the divergence of the transit peptide is the driving force of this evolution.
!~MM~! Seedlings and plants from Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0) were used for the experiments. T-DNA mutant lines were provided by the SALK laboratory CITATION (http://www.arabidopsis.org). For in vitro seedlings, seeds were surface sterilized and plated on 0.5× Murashige and Skoog medium including Gamborg B5 vitamins (M0231, Duchefa), 1% (w/v) sucrose, and 0.8% (w/v) agar. For plants, seeds were sown in pots containing a mixture of soil and vermiculite (3:1 v/v) and irrigated with water. Both plants and seedlings were grown at 22 °C under continuous light (4500–6000 lux). The identification of transcription initiation sites was determined by the RNA ligase-mediated rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RLM-RACE) method. RLM-RACE was achieved from flower bud total RNAs as recommended by the provider (Ambion, Austin, TX) with some modifications. Reverse Transcription was achieved with oligo(dT) primers and MMLV reverse transcriptase by using the ProSTAR First Strand RT-PCR kit (Stratagene). For the determination of the 5′ extremity of the large AtNTRB transcript, cDNA synthesis was carried out at 55 °C with gene-specific primers using the SUPERSCRIPT RT-PCR system (Invitrogen). Nested PCRs were achieved with the provided adapter-specific primers in combination with gene-specific primers (5′-GTGAGTTTCGAGACCATTCATGACGG-3′, 5′-CATTAGGAACGAATTTACTTGCAAAG-3′). Total RNA was extracted from frozen plant organs or cell suspension pellets using the TRIzol Reagent (Gibco BRL, Gaithersburg, MD, USA) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. For semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR, 5 μg of DNase I-treated total RNA was used for first-strand synthesis of cDNA by using oligo(dT) primer reverse transcription with the Moloney Murine Leucemy Virus Reverse Transcriptase (MMLV-RT) as described by the manufacturer’s protocol (First Strand RT-PCR kit, ProSTAR™, Stratagene). PCRs (25–30 cycles) were performed as described in CITATION. The following primers were used for RT-PCR experiments: AtNTRB forward primers, 5′-GTGTGAATCAAAGGTCTTGTCTTTGC-3′ (large cDNA) and 5′-CGAAAGCTTTGCACGGCTTGGTGGTG-3′ (small cDNA). AtNTRB reverse primer, 5′-GATCAATCAACAATAACTCAATGACCT-3′. AtACT2 forward primer, 5′-GTTAGCAACTGGGATGATATGG-3′, and reverse primer, 5′-AGCACCAATCGTGATGACTTGCCC-3′. Rosette leaves, stems and flowers from 8 weeks old A. thaliana plants were used for organelle preparation as described by Kruft et al. CITATION. Briefly, the aerial tissue (30 g) was disrupted in 300 ml of extraction buffer using a Waring blender. Four differential centrifugations were performed to eliminate particles with low sedimentation coefficients (10 min at 3500× g, two times 5 min at 3500× g, 5 min at 6000× g) followed by a final pelleting of a mitochondria enriched fraction (10 min at 17000× g). The supernatant of the 17000× g centrifugation was kept as a cytosolic fraction. The mitochondrial pellets were further purified on 18–29–45% Percoll step gradients as described by Werhahn et al. CITATION. The purified mitochondria were collected at the 29–45% interphase. Proteins were separated by SDS/PAGE and transferred to Immobilon-P membranes (Amersham Pharmacia). Rabbit polyclonal antibodies against AtNTRB were diluted to 1:10000e to perform Western blots. Goat anti-rabbit antibodies conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (Amersham Pharmacia) were used as secondary antibodies and revealed with enhanced chemiluminescence reagents (Amersham Pharmacia). Antibodies directed against A. thaliana thioredoxin h 3 (AtTRX-h3) were used as a control for the cytosolic fraction. Antibodies directed against wheat subunit 9 of NADH dehydrogenase CITATION were used as a control for the inner membrane protein fraction of mitochondria. Mitochondria were isolated from potato tubers (Solanum tuberosum var. Bintje) with a juice extractor as described in CITATION. Proteins were synthesized from the corresponding cDNA clones in the pGEM-T vector by coupled transcription/translation in the presence of [35S]methionine according to the supplier’s instructions (Promega). Import assays were carried out as described CITATION.
