!~ABS~! The PRETTY FEW SEEDS2 gene encodes a homeodomain protein that regulates ovule development. In peptide alignments spanning the homeodomain and the WOX domain, PFS2 shared 95% amino acid identity with the PRESSED FLOWER and WUSCHEL proteins. In the pfs2-1 allele, the integuments display morphological abnormalities and 95% of the embryo sacs fail to develop properly, which results in reduced fecundity. PFS2 transcripts were most abundant in developing ovules, which accounts for the ovule phenotype in pfs2 mutants. In addition, PFS2 transcripts were present in developing primordia and differentiating organs, but, interestingly, they were absent during cell maturation. Ectopic PFS2 expression interfered with differentiation of primordia from meristems. For most plants, this resulted in fasciated stems, altered phyllotaxy, a cessation of primordia differentiation, or a combination of these. In the plants that made ovules, ectopic PFS2 expression blocked megaspore mother cell differentiation and often impeded polarized growth of the outer integument. PFS2 activity altered AGAMOUS expression, which accounts for some of the gain- and loss-of-function phenotypes. Based on analyses presented here, PFS2 affects either ovule patterning or differentiation.
!~RES~! The recessive pfs2 mutant exhibits defects in early ovule development including embryo sac differentiation (CITATION). Reciprocal crosses between pfs2-1 mutants and wild-type plants confirmed that defects in reproduction derive from sporophytic defects in ovule development (Table 1). The crosses show that pfs2 pollen was as virile as wild-type pollen, indicating that pollen development was unaffected in the pfs2-1 mutant background (Table 1). In pfs2 ovules, the embryo sac was occasionally absent (Fig. 2B), but more frequently, it exhibited morphological defects and contained fewer than the normal complement of seven cells (Fig. 2C). Wild-type integument cells were columnar (Fig. 2A), but pfs2 integument cells exhibited less directional cell expansion (Fig. 2B). The reduction in directional growth and cell division in this mutant resulted in integuments that commonly were shorter than wild type (Fig. 3B). Only 4% of the pfs2 mutants developed functional embryo sacs as shown by analyses of ovule anatomy and subsequent plant fertility trials.    Average number of seeds per fruit produced by crosses between pfs2-1 mutants and wild type    [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] In addition to aberrant ovule phenotypes, the leaves and petals of pfs2 mutants displayed abnormalities. When compared to wild-type petals, the edges of pfs2 mutant petals were wavy and crenulated (Fig. 2G). In pfs2 mutants, the leaves appeared narrower than wild type due to leaf curling (Fig. 2E), but the width of pfs2 leaves was not significantly different than wild type (data not shown). Since the pfs2-1 mutant derives from a T-DNA mutated line, it was necessary to determine if the T-DNA mapped to the mutant locus. In a segregating population, genetic data indicated that the T-DNA was tightly linked with the pfs2 mutation; no recombinants were found in 68 mutant plants. Accordingly, the DNA flanking the T-DNA insert in pfs2-1 was isolated by plasmid rescue and sequenced (see Materials and methods). The rescued DNA corresponds to the At2g01500 locus, which encodes a homeodomain transcriptional factor. In a genome-wide survey of WUS homeodomain genes, Haecker et al. (CITATION) annotated At2g01500 as WOX6. In the pfs2-1 and pfs2-2 alleles, T-DNA inserts were incorporated into the second and third intron of this homeodomain gene, respectively (Fig. 4A).   [[FIGURE]] A wild-type copy of this homeodomain gene (At2g01500) was used to transform pfs2-1 mutants to determine if it would complement the mutant phenotype. The pSOP3 construct contains the PFS2 promoter, exons, introns, and untranslated sequences. This construct was transformed into pfs2 mutants and the transformants were evaluated microscopically. While pfs2 mutants containing the pSOP3 transgene were fully fertile (Fig. 3A), 60% of the transformants exhibited subtle defects in ovule morphology. In these plants, the outer integument was shorter than in wild type and exposed the inner integument and nucellus (Fig. 3D). These subtle morphological defects in ovules might result from gene dosage effects or inappropriate expression of the transgene in some transformants. Nonetheless, restoration of full fertility to pfs2 mutants containing a wild-type copy of this homeodomain gene indicates that the PFS2 locus encodes the At2g01500 protein. Fig. 4B shows the alignment of the proteins most similar to PFS2, including PRS, WUS, and PFS2-LIKE (At3g18018). Within the homeodomain and WOX (TL-LFP) domain, these four proteins share 95% amino acid identity (Fig. 4B). The PFS2 and PFS2-LIKE proteins share short motifs at the N- and C-termini (Fig. 4B). Outside these amino acid regions and domains, the similarity among these proteins drops precipitously. To relate the observed pfs2 mutant phenotype with the expression of PFS2 in wild-type plants, the relative abundance and localization of PFS2 was measured using RT-PCR and in situ hybridization (Fig. 5). In developing seeds, PFS2 transcripts were found in the embryo, suspensor, and endosperm nuclei, but were absent in the integuments (Fig. 5A,B). In seedlings, PFS2 transcripts were found in the shoot apical meristem and leaf primordia, but were not expressed in expanded cotyledons or mature leaves (Fig. 5C and data not shown). In reproductive structures, transcripts could be detected in floral apical meristems, floral primordia, stamens, and pistils (Fig. 5D,E). Although the pfs2 mutant does not have male defects, the PFS2 gene expresses in the tapetum in anthers (Fig. 5E). In the gynoecium, PFS2 expression was present throughout developing ovules (Fig. 5E-G). In addition, PFS2 mRNA was weakly expressed in petals, sepals, and the walls of carpels (Fig. 5H,J). In summary, PFS2 mRNA was expressed in differentiating primordia, but absent in organs that were nearly mature or fully developed.   [[FIGURE]] In pfs2 mutants, despite the wide distribution of transcripts, only leaves, petal margins, and ovules exhibited an abnormal phenotype. Either PFS2 has a limited role in the development of primordia from shoot meristems, where this gene product was expressed, or a redundant gene complements the absence of activity there. The PFS2 gene, similar to other known WOX genes, exhibits an expression domain that is much broader than the tissues/organs that display aberrant phenotypes in mutant individuals (CITATION). To determine if PFS2 was active outside the ovules, this gene was expressed under the control of the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter. In transgenic plants overexpressing PFS2 (PFS2 OE), there were a variety of phenotypes. The most severe phenotypes corresponded to the highest levels of PFS2 expression – many of these plants were unable to form reproductive structures. In the most severely effected plants, the apical meristems enlarged, but primordia that formed remained undifferentiated for weeks (Fig. 6A). Occasionally a leaf primordium emerged, but it did not mature into a leaf (Fig. 6B). Other transformants showed disorganized or irregular leaf orientations or phyllotaxy (Fig. 6C). These plants often became highly fasciated because of the inability of the primordia to separate from the apical meristem and adjacent primordia. Most transformants failed to reproduce because plant development terminated before reproductive structures formed.   [[FIGURE]] Plants expressing the PFS2 gene at lower levels formed flowers. In transformants that made flowers, the stamens sometimes had stigmatic papillae on the tips (Fig. 6D). Stronger floral phenotypes included an increase in the number of carpelloid stamens, especially in the second and third whorls (Fig. 6E). Carpelloid stamens often formed at the expense of petal development. In the ovules from these plants, the outer integuments did not undergo, or exhibited reduced, asymmetric cell expansion (Fig. 6F), and the nucellus of these plants contained only small parenchymatous cells (Fig. 6G). Expression of PFS2 suppressed differentiation of the MMC and outer integument. Thus, each of the PFS2 OE phenotypes showed defects in differentiation of primordia from meristematic regions. The leaf phenotype of pfs2 mutants resembles the previously reported phenotypes for curly leaf (clf) mutants (CITATION) and transgenic plants that overexpress AG (CITATION; CITATION). CLF activity represses AG transcription in leaves. In the clf mutant, ectopic expression of AG in the leaves induced leaf curling (CITATION). Since the leaves in pfs2 mutants also curl (Fig. 7C), the relative expression of AG was assayed in various genetic backgrounds. RT-PCR data demonstrated that, as PFS activity increases, the relative abundance of AG transcripts decreases (Fig. 7E). The leaf phenotype of ag pfs2 double mutants was examined to determine if AG activity was necessary for leaf curling. In ag pfs2 double mutants, leaf curling diminished but was not completely eliminated (Fig. 7D). Thus, analyses of these single- and double-mutant phenotypes reveal that AG activity was partially responsible for leaf curling (Fig. 7).   [[FIGURE]] When the relative abundances of AG transcripts were similarly measured in inflorescences similar results were found; when compared to wild-type flowers, AG expression decreased in PFS2 OE flowers and increased in pfs2 mutant flowers (Fig. 7E). Analyses of AG localization indicate that this decrease in AG expression derives primarily from reduced expression in young floral primordia (Fig. 7G). Samples from PFS2 OE and wild-type inflorescences were simultaneously prepared and then hybridized on the same slide to allow signal intensities to be compared. In wild-type ovules at anthesis, AG transcripts localize to the endothelium, which surrounds the gametophyte (CITATION). In PFS2 OE ovules, which fail to form a gametophyte, AG transcripts localized to the nucellus and inner integument (Fig. 7G). This observation indicates that gametophyte identity either was not established or was established and then lost from this region of the ovule. Normally AG transcripts are present in developing gynoecia and stamens, but in PFS2 OE plants the AG transcripts were also detected in some of the petal primordia (Fig. 7I). Previous publications (CITATION; CITATION) show that expanding the domain of AG expression leads to many of the floral phenotypes observed in Fig. 6E.
!~MM~! Wild-type plants and recessive pfs2 mutants (CITATION) were grown at ambient laboratory temperatures with fluorescent lighting (∼100μ mol/m2/s), as recommended by Kranz and Kirchheim (CITATION). To generate genetic lines segregating for ag and pfs2, pollen from pfs2-1 mutants was used to fertilize putative ag-1 heterozygotes. Gametophytes that were mutant for both of these loci sometimes exhibited developmental defects. This was determined by examining cleared ovules using differential interference contrast microscopy (CITATION). Tissues were fixed overnight in 50 mM cacodylate buffer, pH 7.0, 5% glutaraldehyde. Samples were then dehydrated in a graded ethanol series, which was gradually replaced with acetone. These samples were infiltrated with epoxy resin that was polymerized overnight at 60°C (CITATION). Sections (0.5μ m) were stained with thionin and acridine orange (CITATION) and visualized using a Zeiss Axioscope microscope (Thornwood, NY). Bright-field images were captured using a Kodak MDS 290 digital camera (Rochester, NY) that was connected to the microscope. Images were cropped and manipulated for publication using Adobe Photoshop (Adobe Systems, Inc., San Jose, California). SEM samples were prepared as described by Robinson-Beers et al. (CITATION), except as noted here. Pistils were sputter coated with platinum. Samples were examined and images captured using the Hitachi S-4000 FE-SEM (Tokyo, Japan), which was operated at an acceleration voltage of 5 kV. Genomic DNA from pfs2-1 mutants was digested using Hind3 restriction enzyme. DNA fragments were ligated into covalently closed circles using T4 DNA ligase and transformed into SoloPack Gold Supercompetant Cells (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). Plasmids were selected using ampicillin and the flanking DNA was sequenced using the M13 primer. The pSOP3 plasmid contains the promoter and coding sequence for PFS2. This gene was PCR-amplified from genomic DNA using the following primers: GTTATGGATCCAAAAATATGTG and GGGACAGAGATCTTTTGAGT. To create pSOP3, the PCR product was digested using BamHI and BglII and inserted into the compatible site in pCAMBIA 2200 (CITATION). This plasmid was moved into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGL by triparental mating (CITATION). Plants were transformed with this A. tumefaciens containing this plasmid using established transformation techniques (CITATION). Transformants were selected on 50 μg/ml kanamycin. The ovule phenotype of transformants was evaluated using microscopic techniques described above. The pSOP2 plasmid contains the PFS2 coding sequence under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (35S). Using gene-specific primers (GTTCGGAATTCCACAACAAC and GGGACAGAGATCTTTTGAGT), and genomic DNA as a template, the PFS2 coding sequence was PCR-amplified. The PCR product was digested using EcoRI and BglII, and inserted into these sites in pBH6 (CITATION). The 35S::PFS2 fragment was excised by cleaving the DNA with NotI and was cloned into this restriction site in pMLBart. The resulting plasmid, pSOP2, was used to transform Arabidopsis plants using the floral dip method (CITATION). T1 transformants were selected by spraying seedlings with Finale (AgrEvo, Wilmington, DE), which had been diluted 1:1000 in water. In resistant plants, the presence of the transgene was verified by PCR. The PFS2 cDNA was cloned into by RT-PCR, by the method of Kawasaki (CITATION). RNA was purified from inflorescences using RNeasy spin columns (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). First-strand template was primed with oligo dT17, then PCR amplified using the following primers: ATGGGCTACATCTCCAACAA and TCAGTTCTTCAGAGGCATGA. The PFS2 cDNA was TA cloned into pCRII as recommended by the manufacturer (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA), and the resulting clones were sequenced to identify one without any mutations. The resulting plasmid is called pSOP15. Total RNA was isolated from fresh tissue using the RNeasy plant RNA isolation kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). RNA concentration was measured using RiboGreen dye (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) and a fluorometer. Using Accupower RT PreMix (Bioneer Corp., Rockville, MD), the RNA template was primed with dT17 and reversed transcribed. Qualitative differences in PFS2 transcripts were determined by PCR using the following gene-specific primers: ATGGGCTACATCTCCAACAA and TCAGTTCTTCAGAGGCATGA. Relative AG expression levels were determined using the following primers: ATGGCTGACAAGAAGATTAGG and AACGAAGTCAGTTGAGACAA. For normalization purposes, the following primers were used to amplify glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase C (GAP) transcripts: ATGGCTGACAAGAAGATTAGG and AACGAAGTCAGTTGAGACAA. Different primers (CTGGAGATGATGCACCAAGA and GGAAGGTACTGAGTGATGCT) were used to amplify ACTIN11 transcripts. Amplification of transcripts was evaluated using 25, 30, and 35 PCR cycles to identify conditions where PCR reagents were not limiting. PCR products were separated by size using agarose gels, stained with ethidium bromide, and visualized under a UV light. Images from these gels were captured using a ChemImager 4400 (Alpha Innotech Corp., San Leandro, CA), and relative band intensities were measured using the associated software. Except for the modifications noted below, previously described methods for in situ hybridization were used (CITATION). To generate templates for probe synthesis, the insert in pSOP15 was PCR amplified. The T7 RNA polymerase initiation sequence was placed in front of one of the gene-specific primers, which allowed direct synthesis of digoxigenin-labeled probe from PCR products. To PCR-amplify the template for antisense probe synthesis, the following primers were used: TTCCACACACAAACCGACCACA and TAATACGACTCACTATAGGGAAAGTCCGGTTGTCCCTCGTTT. The template for the sense probe was amplified using TAATACGACTCACTATAGGG-TTCCACACACAAACCGACCACA and AAAGTCCGGTTGTCCCTCGTTT primers. RNA probes were synthesized using the Dig-RNA labeling kit (Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN). The 244-bp cRNA products were synthesized and added to the hybridization solution, so the final concentration was 500 ng/ml. Probes were not hydrolyzed. Slides were hybridized at 45°C and washed at 50°C. For color detection, 1 mM levamisole (Sigma, St Louis, MO) was added to Western Blue substrate (Promega, Madison, WI). Slides were evaluated under bright-field and DIC optics and images were captured and modified as before.
