!~ABS~! Vesicle trafficking is essential for the generation of asymmetries, which are central to multicellular development. Core components of the vesicle transport machinery, such as ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF) GTPases, have been studied primarily at the single-cell level. Here, we analyze developmental functions of the ARF1 subclass of the Arabidopsis thaliana multigene ARF family. Six virtually identical ARF1 genes are ubiquitously expressed, and single loss-of-function mutants in these genes reveal no obvious developmental phenotypes. Fluorescence colocalization studies reveal that ARF1 is localized to the Golgi apparatus and endocytic organelles in both onion (Allium cepa) and Arabidopsis cells. Apical-basal polarity of epidermal cells, reflected by the position of root hair outgrowth, is affected when ARF1 mutants are expressed at early stages of cell differentiation but after they exit mitosis. Genetic interactions during root hair tip growth and localization suggest that the ROP2 protein is a target of ARF1 action, but its localization is slowly affected upon ARF1 manipulation when compared with that of Golgi and endocytic markers. Localization of a second potential target of ARF1 action, PIN2, is also affected with slow kinetics. Although extreme redundancy precludes conventional genetic dissection of ARF1 functions, our approach separates different ARF1 downstream networks involved in local and specific aspects of cell polarity.
!~RES~! In Arabidopsis, six class 1 ARF proteins have been identified by the genome sequencing project. They share 98 to 100% amino acid identity with one another and conserved splice site positions (data not shown). Four of them can be grouped into two pairs derived from segmental genome duplication events (CITATION). T-DNA insertion lines from the SIGNAL and the Syngenta GARLIC collections (CITATION; CITATION; data not shown) revealed no obvious phenotypes, indicating extensive functional redundancy. Multiple RNA interference lines targeted to a common class 1 ARF sequence also revealed no specific phenotypes (data not shown). If class 1 ARF proteins perform overlapping functions in Arabidopsis development, they should also share expression domains. We therefore created promoter fusions for all six class 1 ARF proteins using the ER-localized yellow fluorescent protein (ERYFP) as a reporter. For each promoter fusion, 20 independent transgenic lines were analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). ERYFP expression was observed in all the promoter fusion lines except for ARF6 (At5g14670), which is preferentially expressed in anthers and pollen (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). The promoter fusion lines for the other five class 1 ARF proteins showed essentially the same expression pattern with constitutive ERYFP expression in young seedlings (see Supplemental Figures 1B to 1F online), indicating extensive overlap of class 1 ARF gene expression. We focused our studies on the Arabidopsis ARF1 (At2g47170) because this member has been studied at the cellular level (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). GenBank EST expression data (http://www.ncbi.nih.gov/Genbank/) confirm that ARF1 is expressed in all organs examined. To investigate tissue specificity of ARF1 mRNA expression in different organs and at different developmental stages, we created ARF1 promoter fusions using β-glucuronidase (GUS) as a reporter. GUS activity was detected throughout the roots of all the transgenic lines examined (see Supplemental Figure 1G online). In addition, we also observed strong GUS activity in vascular bundles, leaf primordia, stomata, trichomes, style, stigmatic tissue, and young pollen (see Supplemental Figures 1H to 1J online). Intense GUS activity was detected in embryo sacs and dissected embryos of all stages (see Supplemental Figure 1K online). We investigated whether posttranscriptional regulation affected ARF1 expression by making stable transgenic Arabidopsis plants carrying the fusion construct of wild-type ARF1 (ARF1-WT) and enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) under control of the Arabidopsis ARF1 promoter (arf1-ARF1-WT-EGFP). Constitutive GFP expression was found in all the ARF1-WT-EGFP translational fusion lines. For example, GFP fluorescence was observed in all cells within the root meristem, and GFP fluorescence localized to the region of forming cell plate, to the growing root hairs, and also was detected in stomata and trichome cells (see Supplemental Figures 1L to 1P online). Collectively, our data suggest that the ARF1 protein is ubiquitously expressed and overlaps with the expression domain of the class 1 ARF members. In both yeast and mammalian cells, ARF1-Q71L (GTP-locked form) has significantly reduced GTPase activity and therefore behaves as a constitutively activated mutant (CITATION) that cannot hydrolyze its GTP and interferes with the sorting of membrane proteins into Golgi-derived COPI vesicles. ARF-T31N (GDP-locked form) has low affinity for GTP and has been shown to behave as a dominant-negative mutant (CITATION) that blocks the formation of COPI-coated vesicles. As the critical amino acids are conserved among class 1 ARF proteins (data not shown), both mutants are expected to also impair ARF1-mediated vesicle transport in plants. We made protein fusion constructs of ARF1-WT and the GTP- and GDP-locked dominant mutants of ARF1, namely ARF1-Q71L and ARF-T31N with EGFP, enhanced cyan fluorescent protein (ECFP), or enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP), under control of a 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV). We studied the intracellular localization and dynamics of the translocation of ARF1 protein during transient expression in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells. GTP-locked ARF1 colocalized with wild-type ARF1 in multiple punctuate structures, whereas no fluorescent motile organelles were observed in cells with GDP-locked ARF1 construct (Figures 1A to 1D; see Supplemental Movie 1 online). [[FIGURE]] Colocalization studies using ARF1-WT-EC/YFP and a resident Golgi protein N-α-2,6-sialyltransferase (N-ST) fused to YFP (N-ST-YFP; CITATION) or a Golgi-targeted N-acetylglucosaminyl (NAG) transferase fused to ECFP (NAG-ECFP) suggest that ARF1 largely resides in or associates with the Golgi apparatus but also localizes to organelles negative for the Golgi markers (Figure 1E; see Supplemental Figure 2A and Movies 2 to 4 online). The Golgi localization of ARF1 is in agreement with observations on maize (Zea mays) and tobacco cells using ARF1 antisera (CITATION; CITATION). However, our data indicate that ARF1 localizes to additional sites. Indeed, we found that ARF1-WT-EGFP fluorescence partially overlaps with the endocytic marker FM4-64 (Figure 1F; see Supplemental Movie 5 online), which does not label Golgi apparatus in both onion and Arabidopsis cells (see Supplemental Figures 2B, 2D, and Movie 6 online), suggesting that Arabidopsis ARF1 is also localized to endocytic organelles. Furthermore, a subpopulation of ARF1 fluorescence coincides with a red fluorescent protein (RFP) fusion to the conventional type RAB5 homolog ARA7 from Arabidopsis (RFP-ARA7; Figure 1G; see Supplemental Movie 7 online) but not with a plant unique RAB GTPase ARA6 fused to EYFP (ARA6-EYFP; CITATION; see Supplemental Figure 2C and Movie 8 online), indicating that ARF1 and ARA7 reside in different endocytic organelles from ARA6. In addition, we found that ARF1-EYFP fluorescence moves along actin filaments, illustrated by an EGFP fusion to the mouse F-actin–binding protein TALIN (EGFP-TALIN; CITATION; Figure 1H; see Supplemental Movie 9 online). We next studied the intracellular localization of wild-type ARF1 and its mutated forms in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. A heat shock–inducible promoter from the Arabidopsis HSP18.2 gene (CITATION) was used to drive expression of the fusion proteins. Intense GFP expression was induced in Arabidopsis root cells within 2 h after heat shock induction (37°C, 2 h). Both heat shock–induced ARF1-WT-YFP and ARF1-Q71L-YFP distribute similar to arf1-ARF1-WT-EGFP (Figures 2A, 2B, and 2D1), suggesting that the heat shock promoter activity levels used did not alter protein localization. In hsp18.2-ARF1-T31N-ECFP lines, CFP fluorescence is largely cytosolic and localizes to the nucleus, whereas no moving organelles were labeled (Figure 2C). Colocalization analysis of ARF1-WT-GFP with Golgi and endocytic markers in Arabidopsis confirms our observations in onion epidermal cells (Figures 2D and 2E; see Supplemental Figures 2D and 2E online), and in addition ARF1-WT-GFP coaggregates with FM4-64 in BFA-induced compartments (Figure 2F). Taken together, our data suggest that ARF1 resides both in Golgi stacks and in a subpopulation of vesicles that move along actin filaments. [[FIGURE]] The Arabidopsis root allows dissection of different aspects of cell polarity in plants. Distally, meristematic root cells divide in oriented planes. In the more proximal cell elongation and cell differentiation zones, trichoblast cells will develop root hairs at their basal end, reflecting epidermal polarity along the apical-basal axis. Furthermore, root hairs elongate by polar tip growth. BFA treatment interferes with both aspects of epidermal polarity in a concentration-dependent manner (CITATION; Figures 4F and 4I), indicating that ARF-dependent processes are involved in apical-basal polarity and polar tip growth. In a search for specific ARF1 effects, we focused on polarity aspects of a single cell type: the trichoblast. To dissect ARF1 functions, the GAL4-VP16 (GV)/UAS binary expression system (CITATION) was used for region-specific expression of wild-type ARF1 and its mutated forms. Manipulation of ARF1 function in the root meristem using the root meristem–specific rch1GV driver affected root development, directional cell expansion, and cytokinesis (see Supplemental Figure 3 online), consistent with the expected household role of ARF1 in vesicle trafficking. However, it did not cause any obvious defects in root hair initiation and root hair tip growth (see Supplemental Figures 3C, 3F, 3H, and 3J online). We therefore specifically interfered with ARF1 function in trichoblasts. ARF1-WT and ARF1 mutants were expressed using a trichoblast-specific driver prp3GV whose expression is initiated at the onset of root hair outgrowth (CITATION; Figure 3A). No alteration in apical-basal epidermal polarity or tip growth occurred in ARF1-WT–overexpressing lines (Figures 3B, 3G, 3L, and 3M), but trichoblast-specific expression of ARF1-Q71L or ARF1-T31N significantly inhibited tip growth (Figures 3C to 3F, 3H to 3K, 3N, and 3O). [[FIGURE]] Root hair formation can be completely abolished after strong heat shock induction (37°C, 4 h) in transgenic lines carrying hsp18.2GV and UAS-ARF1-Q71L or UAS-ARF1-T31N, whereas root hairs are normal in wild-type plants or ARF1-WT–overexpressing lines under the same conditions (n = 100; Figures 4A to 4C). Unlike in ARF1-T31N–expressing lines (Figures 4C and 4E), proper root hair formation recovers abruptly in ARF1-Q71L–expressing lines within 2 d, demonstrating that the effects of GTP-locked ARF1 on root hair formation are reversible (Figures 4B and 4D). Root hairs are able to develop in ARF1-Q71L– and ARF1-T31N–expressing lines after mild heat shock induction (37°C, 2 h), but polarized root hair tip growth is significantly inhibited (Figures 4G, 4H, and 4J). These data suggest a dose-dependent effect of ARF1 manipulation on tip growth in Arabidopsis root hairs. [[FIGURE]] Consistent with the effect of BFA treatment (CITATION), apical-basal polarity in root hair initiation is dramatically affected by heat shock–induced expression of ARF1-T31N but not ARF1-Q71L (Figures 4G, 4H, and 4J). The difference in effect of the GTP- and GDP-locked mutants of ARF1 on epidermal polarity might indicate that they act on different targets, but can also reflect differences in protein level or stability. Apical-basal trichoblast polarity was not affected by the ARF1 mutants expressed in PRP3 or RCH1 expression domain as well as in the root cap region (data not shown). We concluded that root hair positioning in response to epidermal polarity and the decision to grow out a hair per se occur in the elongation zone. The Arabidopsis ROP2/ARAC4 gene has been implicated as a regulator of both apical-basal polarity in root hair initiation and polarized root hair tip growth. The ROP2 gene is expressed throughout root hair development, and ROP2 overexpression results in longer root hairs with multiple tips, whereas constitutively active GTP-bound ROP2 (ROP2-G14V) expression inhibits and depolarizes root hair tip growth (CITATION). Transgenic lines carrying prp3GV and UAS-ROP2-G14V display the bulged root hair phenotype reported for 35S-ROP2 lines (Figures 5A to 5C), whereas no root hair phenotype was observed in transgenic lines carrying rch1GV and UAS-ROP2-G14V (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] BFA inhibits early polar localization of ROP proteins at the root hair initiation site, suggesting that root hair initiation requires an early-acting ARF-dependent process (CITATION). To determine whether ARF1 function is involved in ROP2 action, we studied genetic interactions between ARF1 and ROP2 in trichoblast cells. We crossed UAS-ARF1-Q71L or UAS-ARF1-T31N into the transgenic lines carrying prp3GV and UAS-ROP2-G14V, and performed epistasis analysis in the F1 progeny. In all the F1 lines examined, root hairs showed tip growth defects but displayed no bulging (Figures 5D to 5I), indicating that ROP2 function in controlling polarized tip growth is ARF1 dependent. We next investigated the localization of the ROP2 protein in Arabidopsis plants carrying the fusion construct of EYFP and ROP2 (EYFP-ROP2) under the control of the ROP2 promoter. YFP fluorescence is highly enriched in the apical and basal plasma membranes of the root meristematic cells (Figure 5J), and consistent with its role in cell polarity, EYFP-ROP2 localized to the future site of root hair formation as well as to the tips of growing root hairs (Figure 5K). Moreover, EYFP-ROP2 partially colocalized with endocytic marker FM4-64 upon BFA treatment (Figures 5L to 5N), implying ARF-dependent ROP2 trafficking. Heat shock (37°C, 2 h)–induced overexpression of wild-type ARF1 had no obvious effects on the localization of the EYFP-ROP2 fusion protein (Figure 5O). However, in ARF1-Q71L– or ARF1-T31N–expressing lines, localization of the EYFP-ROP2 fusion protein was significantly altered within 20 h after heat shock induction, illustrated by strong internalization and reduced YFP fluorescence on the plasma membrane (Figures 5P and 5Q). These results suggest that ARF1 function is required for ROP2 localization. Delocalization of ROP2 after ARF1 manipulation was not clearly observed until 20 h after heat shock, which posed the question whether dominant ARF1 mutants act slowly on all ARF1-dependent processes or whether ROP2 localization defects might require intermediate steps. To assess whether heat shock–induced ARF1 mutants can rapidly affect known vesicular trafficking pathways in the intact plant, we analyzed changes in the distribution of Golgi markers, a functional auxin efflux component PIN2-EGFP fusion, and the endocytic marker FM4-64. As a control, we timed the delocalization response of these markers to ARF-GEF inhibition by BFA treatment. No changes were observed in the distribution of any marker after the overexpression of ARF-WT at all heat shock periods used (Figures 6A, 6E, 6I, 6M, 6Q, and 6U). However, within 3 h of heat shock at 37°C, fluorescence of the two Golgi markers N-ST-YFP and NAG-EGFP was significantly altered in both ARF1-Q71L– and ARF1-T31N–expressing lines (Figures 6B, 6C, 6F, and 6G). Surprisingly, PIN2-EGFP was visibly internalized only after prolonged heat shock (Figures 6J, 6K, 6N, and 6O), suggesting that PIN2 exocytosis responds slowly to ARF1 manipulation. [[FIGURE]] We found almost no internalization of FM4-64 after 3 h of induction of ARF1-Q71L and ARF1-T31N expression (Figures 6R and 6S), and almost no vacuoles were labeled by FM4-64 within 3 h of heat shock at 37°C when FM4-64 was added before heat shock induction (Figures 6V and 6W). Thus, uptake of FM4-64 at the plasma membrane and endocytic trafficking of FM4-64 from endocytic organelles to the vacuole are affected, consistent with the inhibition of endocytosis by GTP-locked human ARF1 (CITATION). BFA treatment affects the localization of Golgi markers within 15 min to 1 h (Figures 6D and 6H), consistent with the rapid changes observed upon ARF1 modulation. However, PIN2-EGFP, a slow responder to ARF1 modulation, responds rapidly to BFA (Figures 6L and 6P). More strikingly, the response to BFA of the endocytic marker FM4-64 differs from its response to ARF1 manipulation because BFA strongly interferes with endocytic trafficking of FM4-64 from endocytic organelles to the vacuole but not with FM4-64 uptake (Figure 6T and 6X). This might suggest that ARF1 modulates uptake through interaction with a BFA-insensitive ARF-GEF.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were sterilized with the vapor-phase sterilization protocol described at http://plantpath.wisc.edu/∼afb/vapster.html and imbibed for 4 d at 4°C in the dark, then germinated on vertically oriented plates containing half-strength MS agar (Duchefa, Haarlem, The Netherlands) and 1% sucrose, pH 5.8, and grown in a plant room at 22°C with a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle. ARF1 and ROP2 cDNA were amplified from an Arabidopsis cDNA library using PCR, and cDNA sequences were verified. Q71L and T31N mutations in ARF1 and the G14V mutation in ROP2 were introduced using a PCR-based site-mutagenesis strategy (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). For the arf1-ERYFP and arf1-GUS promoter fusion constructs, 2.64 kb of upstream sequence from the Arabidopsis ARF1 gene was fused to an ERYFP or GUS reporter gene and nopaline synthase terminator engineered in pGREENII-0229. To make the arf1-ARF1-WT-EGFP, 35S-ARF1-WT-EGFP (or ECFP or EYFP), 35S-ARF1-Q71L-EGFP, 35S-ARF1-T31N-EGFP, hsp18.2-ARF1-WT-EGFP, hsp18.2-ARF1-Q71L-EYFP, and hsp18.2-ARF1-T31N-ECFP constructs, EGFP (or ECFP or EYFP) was fused in frame to the C terminus of ARF1 wild-type or mutant proteins. The resulting fusions were cloned into the pGREENII-0229 vector (http://www.pgreen.ac.uk) under the control of the Arabidopsis ARF1 promoter, CaMV 35S promoter, or Arabidopsis HSP18.2 promoter (847 bp), respectively. NAG-EYFP and NAG-ECFP were generated from NAG-EGFP (CITATION) by exchanging of EGFP to EYFP or ECFP. For ARA6-EYFP, NAG cDNA was exchanged for ARA6 cDNA. To create EGFP-TALIN, the mouse TALIN F-actin–binding sequence from pSYC14 (a generous gift from N.H. Chua, Rockefeller University, New York, NY) was fused in frame to the C terminus of EGFP engineered in pGREENII-0229 between the CaMV 35S promoter and nopaline synthase terminator. To create the rch1GV construct, 2.7 kb of upstream sequence from the Arabidopsis RCH1 gene (CITATION) was fused to the GV coding sequence; the resulting construct also contained a UAS-ERGFP or UAS-GUS reporter engineered in the pGREENII-0029 vector. For prp3GV and hsp18.2GV constructs, 2 kb of Arabidopsis the PRP3 gene promoter region or the Arabidopsis HSP18.2 promoter sequence was subcloned before the GV coding sequence in the pGREENII-0029 vector with a UAS-GUS reporter. To generate UAS-ARF1-WT, UAS-ARF1-Q71L, UAS-ARF1-T31N, and UAS-ROP2-G14V plant transformation constructs, ARF1 cDNA, ARF1-Q71L, ARF1-T31N, and ROP2-G14V were subcloned into a UAS cassette engineered in pGREENII-0229, and these constructs were transformed directly into the GV lines. For the EYFP-ROP2 protein fusion, the EYFP coding sequence was fused in frame to N terminus of the Arabidopsis ROP2 gene in pGREENII-0229 vector between 1.8 kb of the ROP2 promoter sequence and 400 bp of the ROP2 3′-untranslated region. PIN2-EGFP was generated by insertion of EGFP into PIN2 (CITATION; CITATION) genomic fragment (nucleotides −2157 to 4380 from ATG) at position 2312. Its functionality was verified by the complementation of the eir1-1 (pin2) agravitropic phenotype (CITATION). All the constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1 (GV3101) with the pSoup plasmid (http://www.pgreen.ac.uk) by electroporation. Plant transformation was done in Arabidopsis Columbia ecotype using the floral-dip method (CITATION). Embryos and small seedlings were immersed in the staining solution (50 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, 0.1% Triton X-100, 1.5 mM potassium ferricyanide, 1.5 mM potassium ferrocyanide, and 1.5 mg/mL X-glucoronide) and incubated in the dark at 37°C. After staining, all the samples were cleared in 8:3:1 chloral hydrate:distilled water:glycerol and visualized using Nomarski optics on a Zeiss (Jena, Germany) Axioskop 2 microscope with a Nikon (Tokyo, Japan) DXM1200 digital camera. For particle bombardment, all plasmids were amplified in Escherichia coli strain and purified using plasmid midi or mini kits according to the manufacturer's instructions (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). Onion (Allium cepa) bulb scale epidermis was bombarded with gold particles coated with plasmids using a Bio-Rad (Hercules, CA) PDS-1000/He particle delivery system. Bombarded specimens were incubated in water before CLSM analysis. BFA treatments were performed as described previously (CITATION). For FM4-64 stainings, onion epidermis or Arabidopsis seedlings were incubated in 2 mL of distilled water containing 5 μM FM4-64 for indicated periods at room temperature. Stained samples were washed twice with water and underwent heat shock treatment, or were directly observed by CLSM and/or two-photon LSM. GFP, YFP, and CFP seedlings were visualized using a Leica (Wetzlar, Germany) MZ FLIII fluorescence stereomicroscope equipped with GFP and YFP filters. Propidium iodide (10 μg/mL in distilled water) was used to stain the cell walls of living root cells (red signal). Two-photon LSM and CLSM were used as described (CITATION).
