!~ABS~! Cullin proteins, which belong to multigenic families in all eukaryotes, associate with other proteins to form ubiquitin protein ligases (E3s) that target substrates for proteolysis by the 26S proteasome. Here, we present the molecular and genetic characterization of a plant Cullin3. In contrast to fungi and animals, the genome of the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana contains two related CUL3 genes, called CUL3A and CUL3B. We found that CUL3A is ubiquitously expressed in plants and is able to interact with the ring-finger protein RBX1. A genomic search revealed the existence of at least 76 BTB-domain proteins in Arabidopsis belonging to 11 major families. Yeast two-hybrid experiments indicate that representative members of certain families are able to physically interact with both CUL3A and CUL3B, suggesting that Arabidopsis CUL3 forms E3 protein complexes with certain BTB domain proteins. In order to determine the function of CUL3A, we used a reverse genetic approach. The cul3a null mutant flowers slightly later than the control plants. Furthermore, this mutant exhibits a reduced sensitivity of the inhibition of hypocotyl growth in far-red light and miss-expresses COP1. The viability of the mutant plants suggests functional redundancy between the two CUL3 genes in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! 
!~MM~! The cul3a-1 insertion line was identified by PCR screening of 37 000 independent transgenic lines from the INRA-Versailles T-DNA collection (CITATION; CITATION, ecotype WS). The cul3a-2 line was identified in the SIGNAL T-DNA collection (CITATION; SALK 050756, ecotype Col). Arabidopsis plants were transformed by floral dip as described by CITATION. For complementation of the cul3a-1 mutant the CUL3A gene was amplified from genomic DNA by using the primers Cul3a5 5′-GGGGTACCGAGAGACGTGACGTGTGATTGGTA-3′ and Cul3a3 5′ ATGGGCCTTAAAAGGCCTCGAGC-3′ and cloned into a modified pBIN vector containing the hygromycin selection marker. For promoter-GUS analysis, 2.2 kbp of the CUL3A promoter, including the 5′-UTR sequence, was cloned into pBGWFS7 (CITATION). More than 20 transgenic Arabidopsis lines were obtained and analysed in T2 and T3 generations. For light experiments, seeds were sown on four layers of Schleicher & Schüll 595 filter paper circles (Schleicher & Schüll, Dassel, Germany), which were placed in Greiner 94/16 Petri dishes (Greiner, Kremsmünster, Austria) supplemented with 5 ml distilled water. The standard sowing procedure was followed by 2 days cold treatment at 8°C in the dark and 1 day of red light induction of germination at 25°C before onset of different light treatments for 3 days. Induction of germination was performed with a standard light field [λ(max) = 650 nm; 3.9 μmol m−2 sec−1; CITATION]. For other light treatments modified Leitz Prado 500-W universal projectors (Leitz, Wetzlar, Germany) were used together with Osram Xenophot longlife lamps (Osram, Berlin, Germany). Red light was obtained by passing the light beam through KG65 filters [λ(max) = 650 nm; Balzers, Liechtenstein]. Far-red light treatments were performed with 716-nm DAL interference filters (Schott, Mainz, Germany). To screen for double mutants, the F2 of crosses between eid1-3 and cul3a-1 were pre-selected for an increased light sensitivity under continuous far-red light (CITATION; CITATION). The genotype of hypersensitive plants was further analysed using T-DNA-specific oligonucleotides and an eid1-3 dCAPS marker (CITATION). Three independent double mutant lines were used for further analyses. Hypocotyl length was measured manually with a ruler. All data represent the mean of at least 40 seedlings analysed in at least two independent experiments. For microarray analysis, seedlings were irradiated with 0.4 μmol m−2 sec−1 far-red light. For flowering time determination and GUS assay, seeds were sown on soil and incubated for 2 days at 8°C. Afterwards they were transferred to a growth chamber with a 12 h light/12 h dark cycle (20/16°C). Flowering time was recorded as the number of days and the number of rosette leaves formed from the time when the seeds were transferred to light until the opening of the first flower bud. The experiment was repeated three times using six to 12 plants from each genotype in each experiment. Seedlings or soil-grown plants were used for GUS assays. The method for histochemical assays for GUS activity is described in CITATION. RNA was extracted from plant material using the Trizol reagent (Invitrogen, Paisley, UK) for Northern analysis or RNeasy Plant Mini Kits (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) for Microarray experiments. RNA gel blot analysis was performed with 20 μg of total RNA per lane. Northern blot procedure is described in CITATION. 32P-labelled probes were synthesized with the Prime-a-Gene random prime labelling kit (Promega Corporation, Madison, WI, USA) using a 900-bp CUL3A cDNA fragment amplified with two gene-specific primers (c3as4 5′-ATGGATTTGGGTGAATCTGT-3′ and c3aS5 5′-CTCGGGGTGACTGCCATA-3′). The microarray analysis was performed with the CATMA array containing 24576 gene-specific tags from A. thaliana (CITATION; Hilson et al., in press). The GST amplicons were purified on Multiscreen plates (Millipore, Bedford, MA, USA) and resuspended in TE-DMSO at 100 ng μl−1. The purified probes were transferred to 1536-well plates with a Genesis workstation (TECAN, Männedorf, Switzerland) and spotted on UltraGAPS slides (Corning, New York, NY, USA) using a Microgrid II (Genomic Solution, Huntingdon, UK). The current CATMA version printed at the URGV consists of three metablocks, each composed of 64 blocks of 144 spots. A block is a set of spots printed with the same print-tip. In these arrays, a print-tip is used three times to print a block in each metablock. For the transcriptome studies, whole seedlings were collected at stage 1.0 according to CITATION from A. thaliana WS and cul3a-1 seedlings irradiated with weak far-red light. RNA from three independent biological repetitions were pooled and analysed on two different dye swaps. RNA integrity was checked with the Bioanalyzer from Agilent (Waldbroon, Germany). cRNAs were produced from 2 μg of total RNA from each pool with the ‘Message Amp aRNA’ kit (Ambion, Austin, TX, USA). Then 5 μg of cRNAs was reverse transcribed in the presence of 200 U of SuperScript II (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA), cy3-dUTP and cy5-dUTP (NEN, Boston, MA, USA) according to (CITATION) for each slide. Samples were combined, purified and concentrated with YM30 Microcon columns (Millipore). Slides were pre-hybridized for 1 h and hybridized overnight at 42°C in 25% formamide. Slides were washed in 2× SSC+ 0.1% SDS 4′, 1× SSC 4′, 0.2× SSC 4′, 0.05× SSC 1′ and dried by centrifugation. Six hybridizations (three dye-swaps) were carried out. The arrays were scanned on a GenePix 4000 A scanner (Axon Instruments, Foster City, CA, USA) and images were analysed by GenePix Pro 3.0 (Axon Instruments). The statistical analysis was based on two dye-swaps, that is four arrays each containing the 24576 GSTs and 384 controls. The controls were used for assessing the quality of the hybridizations but were not included in the statistical tests. For each array, the raw data comprised the logarithm of median feature pixel intensity at wavelength 635 nm (red) and 532 nm (green). No background was subtracted. In the following description, log-ratio refers to the differential expression between the mutant and the control. It is either log2(red/green) or log2(green/red) according to the experimental design. An array-by-array normalization was performed to remove systematic biases. First, we excluded spots that were considered badly formed features by the experimenter. Then we performed a global intensity-dependent normalization using the loess procedure (CITATION) to correct the dye bias. Finally, on each block, the log-ratio median is subtracted from each value of the log-ratio of the block to correct any print-tip effect on each metablock. To determine differentially expressed genes, we performed a paired t-test on the log-ratios. The number of observations per spot varied between two and six and is inadequate for calculating a gene-specific variance. For this reason we assume that the variance of the log-ratios is the same for all genes. The raw P-values were adjusted by the Bonferroni method, which controls the family wise error rate. Primers for RT-PCR were selected using Primer3 (http://www-genome.wi.mit.edu/cgi-bin/primer/primer3_www.cgi, optimal length 21nt, optimal Tm 60°C). blastn and Electronic PCR (ftp://ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pub/schuler/e-PCR/) was used to predict whether the primer pairs amplified a single product of the correct size from the Arabidopsis genome. All primers used for standard RT-PCR and for quantitative PCR were capable of amplifying a unique product. All primer pairs used for quantitative PCR were first tested on a dilution series of genomic DNA (5, 0.5, 0.05, 0.005 ng) to generate a standard curve and assess their PCR efficiency. The primer pairs used following this validation all had an efficiency between 90 and 99%. Reverse transcription was performed on 500 ng of WT and Cul3A mutant total RNA using an oligodT primer (18mer) and the Superscript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen), for 1 h at 42°C. The enzyme was then heat-inactivated at 65°C and the samples were treated with RNase H. Quantitative PCR was performed in 15 μl, using 1 μl of RT reaction, 900 nm final concentration of each primer pair and SYBR Green PCR master mix 2X (Eurogentec, Seraing, Belgium). Corresponding minus RT controls were performed with each primer pairs. Conditions were as follows: 95°C 10 min, 40× (95°C 15 sec, 60°C 1 min) and a dissociation step that allows to discriminate between primer dimers and PCR product. All reactions were performed in duplicate with the ABI PRISM 7900HT Sequence Detection System (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA) and data were analysed with the SDS software provided by the manufacturer. The amplified DNA was also visualized on 2.0% agarose gel stained with ethidium bromide, to confirm the PCR product size. Two primer pairs corresponding to genes not found differentially expressed in the array data were used to normalize the Q-RT-PCR data: EF1 and IAA12. Then normalized ΔCT were calculated as follows: Norm ΔCT = −(CT WT−CT cul3a)−((ΔCT EF1 + ΔCT IAA)/2). A peptide of 16 amino acids located in the N-terminal domain of the CUL3A protein [TWQILERAIHQIYNQ-(C), where C indicates an extra cysteine] was synthesized, linked to KLH carrier protein, and used to immunize rabbits. The antiserum was immunoaffinity purified against the same peptide bound to Sepharose matrix. The phyA antibody is directed against an N-terminal 555 amino acid fragment of phyA and was kindly provided by Daniel Kirchenbauer (University of Freiburg, Germany). A denaturing buffer was used to extract proteins from ground plant material (CITATION). For immunodetection 20 μg of total protein extracts was separated by SDS gels and blotted onto Immobilon-P membrane (Millipore). For detection of the GAL4-AD-fusion proteins a monoclonal antibody directed against the HA epitope tag was purchased from Sigma (Sigma-Aldrich, Saint Louis, MI, USA) (clone HA-7). The coding region of CUL3A and BTB domain proteins was amplified from RIKEN full-length cDNA clone (CITATION), pUNI clones (CITATION) or from cDNA with gene-specific primers. The CUL3B cDNA was kindly provided by H. Hellmann. The PCR products were cloned via a BP clonase reaction in pDONR207 and/or pDONR201 (Invitrogen) to obtain the different pENTR vectors. The gateway cassette (Invitrogen) was inserted in the SmaI site of vectors pGBKT7, pGBT9 and pGADT7 and the pENTR clones were recombined with these vectors. The RBX1 and CULLIN1 clones are described in CITATION and CITATION. Yeast two-hybrid assay and preparation of yeast protein extracts (TCA method) were performed according to the ‘Yeast manual handbook’ (BD Biosciences Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA). Arabidopsis proteins predicted to carry BTB domains were extracted by using interpro, smart, pfam and ‘The Arabidopsis Information Resource’ databases (http://www.arabidopsis.org/index.jsp). Seventy-six non-redundant sequences were identified. Two of the predicted proteins contain two BTB domains. All Arabidopsis BTB domain protein sequences were downloaded on the NCBI server, in the refseq databank (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/RefSeq/). The full-length proteins were aligned using Clustal X 1.83. The conserved core sequences corresponding to the BTB domain were retrieved for the phylogenetic analysis. Phylogenetic analysis was performed with phylip (http://bioweb.pasteur.fr/seqanal/phylogeny/phylip-uk.html). Three methods with bootstrap (100 replications) were used: Fitch-Margoliash least-square distance method, neighbour-joining method and Parsimony method. The phylogenetic tree was drawn with the R package: ape_1.2.3 at http://cran.r-project.org/src/contrib/Descriptions/ape.html (CITATION). Additional protein domains were identified using the Interpro database (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/InterProScan/).
