!~ABS~! To understand how the direction of root growth changes in response to obstacles, light, and gravity, we characterized an Arabidopsis thaliana mutant, wavy growth 2 (wav2), whose roots show a short-pitch pattern of wavy growth on inclined agar medium. The roots of the wav2 mutant bent with larger curvature than those of the wild-type seedlings in wavy growth and in gravitropic and phototropic responses. The cell file rotations of the root epidermis of wav2-1 in the wavy growth pattern were enhanced in both right-handed and left-handed rotations. WAV2 encodes a protein belonging to the BUD EMERGENCE 46 family with a transmembrane domain at the N terminus and an α/β-hydrolase domain at the C terminus. Expression analyses showed that mRNA of WAV2 was expressed strongly in adult plant roots and seedlings, especially in the root tip, the cell elongation zone, and the stele. Our results suggest that WAV2 is not involved in sensing environmental stimuli but that it negatively regulates stimulus-induced root bending through inhibition of root tip rotation.
!~RES~! The wav2-1 mutant displayed enhanced wavy root growth on inclined agar surfaces, as described previously (Figure 1A; CITATION). We measured the wave tangent angle (the angle between a tangent to the root growth direction and a hypothetical axis at each intersection between that axis and the root), wavelength, and growth rate of the wild-type roots (Landsberg erecta [Ler]) and the wav2-1 roots (Figures 1B to 1E). The roots of the wav2-1 mutant had larger wave tangent angles and shorter wavelengths than the roots of the wild-type seedlings. The growth rates of the mutant roots were similar with that of the wild type. These results indicate that the mutation at the WAV2 locus causes an abnormality in the root bending in response to the touch stimulus at the root tip but that it does not cause severe defects in the root growth. [[FIGURE]] CITATION reported that hydrotropic curvature was increased in the roots of wav2-1. We tested whether this mutant also shows abnormalities in response to gravity and light. When we examined the gravitropic response by inverting the agar medium, the wild-type roots showed gradual bending and a large radius of curvature, whereas the wav2-1 roots showed sharp bending and a small radius (Figure 2A). When we changed the root direction from vertical to horizontal, the initial root curvature was larger in wav2-1 than in the wild type in both horizontal positions (left and right) (Figure 2B). When we examined the phototropic response by unilateral irradiation with white light for 24 h, a slight but obvious enhancement of curvature was observed by irradiation from both the right and left in wav2-1 (Figure 2C). Thus, angles of root curvature in wav2-1 were larger than those in the wild type in positive gravitropism and negative phototropism, as well as in positive hydrotropism (CITATION). Photosensors for phototropism are phototropin blue-light receptors (CITATION). Gravity sensors for gravitropism may sense the sedimentation of starch-filled amyloplasts (CITATION). The sensing mechanisms for light, gravity, touching, and moisture may all be different. Thus, these results suggest that WAV2 is a common regulator that suppresses root bending in response to various environmental stimuli but not a specific regulator that responds to touching or moisture. [[FIGURE]] A previous study suggested that the wavy growth pattern in roots is caused by periodic reversal of rotation of the root tip (CITATION). During wavy growth, right-turn root bending is accompanied by left-handed rotation of the root tip, and left-turn root bending is accompanied by right-handed rotation. Furthermore, the root tip rotation could be traced as the cell file rotation of the root epidermis (CITATION). To observe any effect of the wav2-1 mutation on the root tip rotation, we quantified angles of cell file rotation (α) and root bending (β) in 100-μm segments of root within the first three and a half waves (Figure 3; see Methods). Both variables were greater in wav2-1 (Figures 3E and 3F) than in the wild type (Figures 3C and 3D). As CITATION described previously, the right-handed cell file rotation (−α) occurred before the left-turn root bending (−β), and the left-handed cell file rotation (+α) occurred before the right-turn root bending (+β) in all waves of root growth (Figures 3C to 3F), except in the first bend of a wav2-1 seedling (Figure 3F). These results suggest that the enhancement of cell file rotation causes the increase of root bending in the wav2-1 mutant. [[FIGURE]] Recent studies indicate that the organization of cortical microtubules is involved in the regulation of root tip rotation (CITATION; CITATION). To determine how cortical microtubules array in root epidermal cells of wild-type and wav2 seedlings showing wavy growth pattern, whole-mount immunostaining experiments were performed on those seedlings. In both of wav2-1 and wild-type roots, the cortical microtubule arrays appeared to be mostly transverse throughout the entire main and distal elongation zones; there were no noticeable differences between roots of wild-type and wav2-1 (Figure 4). [[FIGURE]] Next, we examined the sensitivity of roots to drugs that affect microtubules by measuring the root slanting angles on agar medium in the vertical position (Figure 5A). When 0.5 to 5 μM propyzamide, a microtubule-destabilizing chemical, was added to the growth medium, wild-type roots showed an exaggerated rightward slant (Figure 5B, positive angles) through left-handed cell file rotation (data not shown), as described previously (CITATION). The wav2-1 roots also slanted rightward, but less than the wild type in both the absence and the presence of propyzamide, indicating a slight resistance to the drug (Figure 5B). When 0.1 and 0.3 μM taxol, a microtubule-stabilizing chemical, was added to the growth medium, wild-type roots showed a reduced rightward slant (Figure 5C). wav2-1 showed a higher sensitivity to taxol, and 0.3 μM taxol caused a slightly leftward root slant (Figure 5C), in which the root tip of the mutant seedlings sometimes showed right-handed rotation (data not shown). A reversal of the trend in root slanting was observed by taxol at 1 μM, as compared with 0.1 and 0.3 μM, in both seedlings, and root slanting angle of wav2-1 was smaller than that of the wild type at 1 μM, as well as at 0.1 or 0.3 μM (Figure 5C). Although 3 μM taxol inhibited germination and caused growth defects in many seedlings, surviving seedlings showed a strong rightward slant in wild-type and wav2-1 (33.3 ± 2.0° in the wild type [means ±se; n = 21] and 25.1 ± 1.6° in wav2-1 [means ±se; n = 24]). Reduction of rightward slant by 0.1 and 0.3 μM taxol and enhancement of rightward slant by taxol at 1 μM or more were also seen by CITATION with wild-type seedlings. [[FIGURE]] To understand the molecular nature of the WAV2 gene product, we determined the gene structure using a map-based cloning procedure. WAV2 was mapped to a 123-kb region of chromosome 5, with a region that includes putative genes from Arabidopsis Genome Initiative loci At5g20240 to At5g20560 (Figure 6A). All annotated genes in this region of the wav2-1 mutant were sequenced; only one base change was found, in At5g20520. A full-length cDNA corresponding to the open reading frame of At5g20520 was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center's cDNA catalog. The 5′-noncoding region of this gene was confirmed by the rapid amplification of cDNA 5′-ends method (data not shown). Normal wavy growth of roots was recovered in a transgenic wav2-1 mutant, named wav2-1-HincII, which carried a genomic DNA fragment containing At5g20520 (Table 1). The wav2-2 mutant, carrying a T-DNA insertion in At5g20520 of the Wassilewskija (Ws) ecotype, showed a shorter wave pitch than that of the Ws wild-type seedlings, although the pitch was weaker than that of the wav2-1 mutant (Table 1). We concluded that the gene is WAV2. [[FIGURE]] Wavy Root Growth Pattern in Wild-Type Seedlings (Ler and Ws), wav2-1 and wav2-2 Mutants, and a Transgenic wav2-1 Mutant with Restored Function (wav2-1-HincII) WAV2 contains eight exons and encodes a predicted protein of 308 amino acid residues with a molecular mass of 34 kD (Figure 6B). The wav2-1 gene possesses a non-sense mutation at residue 70 (TGG [Trp] to TGA [stop]), suggesting that the wav2-1 mutation is null. The WAV2 protein possesses a signal peptide with a transmembrane domain at its N terminus and an α/β-hydrolase domain in the middle of the protein (Figure 6C). BLAST searches revealed that WAV2 belongs to the BEM46 gene family in the α/β-hydrolase superfamily (Figure 6C). It is a unique gene in the Arabidopsis genome, but homologous genes were identified in Oryza sativa, Schizosaccharomyces pombe (BEM46), Saccharomyces cerevisiae (YNL320W), Escherichia coli, Neurospora crassa, Drosophila melanogaster, and Mus musculus. The BEM46 gene of S. pombe is registered as a suppressor of the bem1/bud5 mutants of S. cerevisiae in the S. pombe Gene Database (http://www.genedb.org/genedb/pombe/), but its molecular function has not been identified yet. The expression pattern of the transcripts of WAV2 was revealed by RNA gel blot analysis. Stronger expression was detected in young seedlings and in roots of adult plants than in stems, leaves, and flowers (Figure 7). [[FIGURE]] The expression pattern in roots was observed using a green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter gene. When the GFP-fused WAV2 protein (WAV2:GFP) was induced by the WAV2 gene promoter, it complemented the wav2-1 mutation and thus functioned normally (data not shown). The root tip, including the cell elongation zone and the stele, showed the brightest GFP fluorescence in this transgenic wav2-1 mutant (Figures 8A to 8D), although fluorescence was observed in all root tissues (Figure 8A), and slight fluorescence was detected in the hypocotyls and cotyledon (data not shown). The expression in the root tip seemed to be consistent with the function of WAV2 in regulating root tip rotation. [[FIGURE]] Because WAV2 has a putative transmembrane domain in its N-terminal region, it seems to be a membrane protein. When the subcellular localization of WAV2:GFP proteins was observed, fluorescence was detected at the surface of cells and inside of cells except in the nucleus or vacuoles (Figure 8E). Gaps in fluorescence were observed in the apoplast (Figure 8F), suggesting that the WAV2:GFP protein does not diffuse into the apoplast. To determine whether WAV2:GFP was localized to the cell wall, we treated roots with 1 M mannitol to plasmolyze the cells. Confocal images of these roots showed a considerable amount of fluorescence within the cell as WAV2:GFP pulled away from the cell wall during plasmolysis (Figures 8G and 8H), indicating that fluorescence was not localized to the cell wall and that WAV2 was not secreted from cell to apoplast. To know whether the WAV2:GFP proteins are localized in cytoplasm or membranes, we prepared the soluble fraction and the crude microsomal fraction from whole seedlings and roots of seedlings expressing WAV2:GFP and analyzed both fractions by a immunoblot with an anti-GFP antibody. WAV2:GFP was detected, as an ∼60-kD band, in the crude microsomal fraction but not in the soluble fraction prepared from both whole seedlings and roots (Figure 9). Preparations of the soluble fraction were confirmed by anti-glutamine synthetase (GS) 1 antibody (Figure 9), which reacts with the 40-kD polypeptide of cytosolic GS protein in Arabidopsis (H. Sakakibara, personal communication). From the results of observation of GFP fluorescence and immunoblot analysis, we concluded that the WAV2 proteins localize in the plasma membrane and membranes of inner membrane compartments but not in cytoplasm, nucleus, vacuoles, and apoplast. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were sterilized with 10% (v/v) bleach with 0.02% (v/v) Triton X-100 for 5 min. After five washes in sterilized water, seeds were germinated and grown on square Petri dishes containing half-strength Okada and Shimura medium (CITATION) with 1.5% (w/v) agar. After sowing, dishes were wrapped with Micropore surgical tape (3M Health Care, St. Paul, MN). The dishes were then kept in darkness at 4°C for 2 to 4 d. Then they were transferred to a growth chamber at 22°C under constant white light (a white fluorescent lamp model FL20S-EXNH; Toshiba, Tokyo, Japan). For observation of the wavy growth pattern of roots, Petri dishes were positioned vertically for the first 2.5 d of seedling growth and then inclined backward 45° for 3 to 5 d. For observation of the gravitropic response of roots in the inverted position, dishes were positioned vertically for the first 4 d and were inverted for the next 3 d. For observation of the gravitropic response of roots in the side positions, dishes were positioned vertically for the first 2 d and were changed to the side position for the next 2 d in the dark. For measurement of the phototropic response of roots, seedlings on the surface of agar medium in the vertical position were exposed to white light for 60 h and then irradiated from one side by white light at 100 μmol m−2 s−1 for 24 h. Seedling images were obtained with a three-dimensional digital fine scope (VC4500-PC; Omron, Tokyo, Japan) or digital microscope (VH-8000; Keyence, Osaka, Japan). For quantification of angles of cell file rotation (α) and of root bending (β), roots of 5.5-d-old seedlings showing the wavy growth pattern were photographed at high magnification (×100). The starting point of the first wave was determined from observations of root bending. The values of α and β were measured on each 100-μm segment in the first 3.5 waves. The value of α was calculated from the gap of position of a cell file between top and bottom of a 100-μm segment, assuming that the root is a cylinder, as α (°) = 90 – arccos(ψ/r), where ψ is the distance of the position from the center line of the root, r is the radius of the root, and β is the angular difference of root growth direction in each 100-μm segment (Figures 3A and 3B). Seedlings showing wavy root growth were examined. Microtubules of seedling roots were immunostained as described (CITATION), with some modification. Cellulase (0.1%) Onozuka RS (Yakult Honsha, Tokyo, Japan) was added to the 0.05% pectolyase Y-23 (Kikkoman, Tokyo, Japan) enzyme solution, 1% BSA, 50 mM Gly in PBS was treated for 30 min before a treatment of primary antibody, and root tissues were mounted in an agent of Slowfade light antifade kit (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR). We used monoclonal anti-α-tubulin antibody (clone DM1A; Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) diluted 1:800 with 50 mM Gly in PBS buffer (50 mM NaPO4, pH 7.0), as a primary antibody, and fluorescein-labeled antibody to mouse IgG (Kirkegaard and Perry Laboratory, Gaithersburg, MD) diluted 1:100 with 50 mM Gly in PBS buffer as a secondary antibody. Fluorescence was visualized using a confocal laser-scanning microscope (LSM510 META version 3.2; Zeiss, Fotografieren, Germany) attached to a microscope (Axioplan2; Zeiss). Several seedlings were observed, and results were confirmed. We crossed wav2-1 (Ler ecotype; CITATION) with Columbia (Col) wild type and selected F2 seedlings by screening for short-pitched wavy root growth on agar plates inclined at 45° to the vertical. Genomic DNA from individual F2 seedlings was isolated and amplified with primers for various PCR-based cleaved amplified polymorphisms and simple sequence length polymorphism markers, including nga106 and nga139, and designed by single nucleotide polymorphism in the Cereon Arabidopsis Polymorphism Collection (CITATION), then assayed for Ler- and Col-specific polymorphisms. ExTaq polymerase (TaKaRa Bio, Ohtsu, Japan) was used for PCR. Nucleotide sequences were determined using an ABI3100 genetic analyzer and Big Dye Terminator sequencing kit version 3 (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA). Sequence data were analyzed by GENETYX-MAC 11.2.5 (Software Development, Tokyo, Japan). For complementation analysis, we cloned a HincII-digested 6.2-kb fragment of the F7C8 BAC including the WAV2 gene into the binary vector pPZP211 (CITATION). This plasmid, pPZP-HincII, was used for transformation of Agrobacterium tumefaciens ASE strain, which was used for a floral dip of wav2-1 plants (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on MS medium (Wako Chemicals, Osaka, Japan) containing 50 μg/mL of kanamycin. The wavy phenotypes of roots of T3 plants were examined. Several transgenic lines carrying pPZP-HincII showed complementation of the wav2 mutation. We used the SMART computer program (http://coot.embl-heidelberg.de/SMART) to analyze the structure of the WAV2 protein. The F7C8 BAC clone and the WAV2 cDNA clone 171E17 were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. The wav2-2 mutant (Ws ecotype) was screened from seeds of T-DNA insertion line pool number CSJ1123 from the Arabidopsis Functional Genomics Consortium. Total RNA was isolated from roots, stems, rosette leaves, and flowers of adult plants and from 5-d-old-seedlings of Ler using the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen, Tokyo, Japan) or Isogen (Nippongene, Tokyo, Japan). Total RNA (30 μg) was loaded onto each lane of denaturing agarose gel, electrophoresed, transferred to a nylon membrane (Biodyne B membrane; Pall, Port Washington, NY), and hybridized with radioactive random-primed DNA prepared with WAV2 cDNA as a template. To confirm the amount of RNA in each lane, we also hybridized a DNA probe complementary to 18S rRNA with the membrane. BAS MS-2040 imaging plates and cassettes (Fuji Photo Film, Tokyo, Japan) were used for detection of hybridization. The hybridization signals were visualized with a Typhoon variable image analyzer (Amersham Biosciences, Buckinghamshire, UK). The WAV2 promoter:WAV2:GFP gene was constructed within binary vector pPZP211. Approximately 2.8 kb of a restriction DNA fragment from the HincII site in the WAV2 gene promoter region to the XbaI site in the 5th exon was obtained from pPZP-HincII, which was used for the complementation analysis. Part of the WAV2 cDNA from the 5th to the 7th exon was amplified by PCR and checked by DNA sequencing. The WAV2 genome DNA and a part of its cDNA were fused with the GFP gene. This construct encoded all amino acid residues of WAV2 except the last one. The construct was introduced into the wav2-1 mutant by A. tumefaciens–mediated transformation. T2 and T3 seedlings with the complemented wavy growth phenotype were floated on 1 μg/mL of propidium iodide for 4 min to stain the cell walls. GFP fluorescence was visualized in whole mounts using a confocal laser-scanning microscope (LSM5 Pascal version 3.2; Zeiss) with the fluorescein isothiocyanate channel (green, GFP) and the rhodamine channel (red, propidium iodide). Cells were plasmolyzed by treating seedlings with 1 M mannitol for 60 s. Seven-day-old seedlings showing the wavy growth pattern of roots were harvested from inclined agar medium with forceps. Roots of 7-d-old seedlings were also harvested. Total protein extracts, soluble fraction, and crude microsomal fraction were prepared as described by CITATION. Anti-GFP antibody (mouse monoclonal antibody, clone GF200) was obtained from Nacalai Tesque (Kyoto, Japan). Anti-glutamine synthetase (GS) 1 antiserum was described by CITATION. Horseradish peroxidase (HRP)–conjugated anti-mouse IgG antibody and HRP-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG antibody were obtained from Amersham Biosciences (Piscataway, NJ). HRP activity was detected by the ECL advance protein gel blotting detection kit (Amersham Biosciences) and imaged on the x-ray film (Hyperfilm ECL; Amersham Biosciences). Immunoblot analysis was done twice on independent samples, and the result was confirmed. Sequence data of the BEM46 family have been deposited with the DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession numbers AB182157 (A. thaliana; WAV2), AK106096 (O. sativa), U29892 (S. pombe; BEM46), Z71596 (S. cerevisiae; YNL320W), AF069781 (D. melanogaster; AF069781), and BC043690 (M. musculus) and with the TrEMBL data library under accession numbers for hypothetical amino acid sequences of the family, P77538 (E. coli) and Q7SDX9 (N. crassa).
