!~ABS~! A multisubunit translocon of the inner envelope membrane, termed Tic, mediates the late stages of protein import into chloroplasts. Membrane proteins, Tic110 and Tic40, and a stromal chaperone, Hsp93, have been proposed to function together within the Tic complex. In Arabidopsis, single genes, atTIC110 and atTIC40, encode the Tic proteins, and two homologous genes, atHSP93-V and atHSP93-III, encode Hsp93. These four genes exhibited relatively uniform patterns of expression, suggesting important roles for plastid biogenesis throughout development and in all tissues. To investigate the roles played by these proteins in vivo, we conducted a comparative study of T-DNA knockout mutants for each Tic gene, and for the most abundantly expressed Hsp93 gene, atHSP93-V. In the homozygous state, the tic110 mutation caused embryo lethality, implying an essential role for atTic110 during plastid biogenesis. Homozygous tic110 embryos exhibited retarded growth, developmental arrest at the globular stage and a ‘raspberry-like’ embryo-proper phenotype. Heterozygous tic110 plants, and plants homozygous for the tic40 and hsp93-V mutations, exhibited chlorosis, aberrant chloroplast biogenesis, and inefficient chloroplast-import of both photosynthetic and non-photosynthetic preproteins. Non-additive interactions amongst the mutations occurred in double mutants, suggesting that the three components may cooperate during chloroplast protein import.
!~RES~! In Arabidopsis, Tic110 and Tic40 are each encoded by a single gene, atTIC110 and atTIC40, whereas Hsp93 is encoded by two different genes, atHSP93-V and atHSP93-III (CITATION). The proteins encoded by these Arabidopsis genes are highly similar to the proteins originally identified in pea (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION): amino acid sequence identities shared between the mature forms of the proteins are 67% (atTic110), 56% (atTic40), 92% (atHsp93-V) and 87% (atHsp93-III). The two Arabidopsis Hsp93 proteins share 91% sequence identity. To gain an initial insight into the functional relationships between the Tic proteins and the Hsp93 chaperones in Arabidopsis, we examined their developmental and tissue-specific gene expression patterns by semi-quantitative RT-PCR. The data revealed that expression of the atTIC110, atTIC40, atHSP93-V and atHSP93-III genes occurs throughout development, and is not restricted to photosynthetic or non-photosynthetic tissues (Figure 1). Expression levels of atTIC110 and atTIC40 during periods of intense growth in young tissues were comparable with those observed during maturation in older tissues: compare expression levels in 5- or 10-day-old plants with those in rosette leaves (Figure 1a,b). The Hsp93 homologues exhibited slightly more regulated expression patterns than the Tic genes: expression of atHSP93-V reached a maximum in rosette leaves (Figure 1c), whereas atHSP93-III expression was reduced in the same tissue (Figure 1d). These moderately regulated and complementary expression patterns may reflect functional redundancy between atHsp93-V and atHsp93-III, suggesting that declining expression of one homologue is compensated for by increased expression of the other. On the other hand, atHSP93-V is expressed at significantly higher levels than atHSP93-III. Five fewer PCR cycles were required to amplify the same amount of atHSP93-V cDNA, and there are three times more expressed sequence tags for atHSP93-V in the databases. Furthermore, when the expression levels of the two genes in 12-day-old plants were compared by RNA gel blot analysis using gene-specific probes of identical specific activity, the signal intensity observed for atHSP93-V was approximately 15-fold higher than that observed for atHSP93-III (Supplementary Figure S1). This result is broadly in agreement with the RT-PCR data of CITATION: these authors observed a stronger signal for atHSP93-V (clpC1) than for atHSP93-III (clpC2), even though fivefold more template was used in the atHSP93-III amplifications. [[FIGURE]] Overall, however, it appears that all four genes are expressed at significant levels throughout development. These expression data are therefore consistent with the proposed roles of the proteins as general components of the import machinery, and with the possibility that the proteins function together during chloroplast protein import. Relatively high levels of expression of all four genes were observed in etiolated seedlings (Figure 1), which may indicate an important role for the proteins even during very early stages of plastid development. To investigate the roles of the three proteins in an in vivo context, we isolated Arabidopsis knockout mutants for atTic110, atTic40 and atHsp93-V, the most abundantly expressed Hsp93 isoform, and conducted a comprehensive comparative study of the mutant phenotypes. The mutants were isolated by screening various populations of transferred DNA (T-DNA) mutagenized plants, either in silico or by PCR using gene-specific and T-DNA primers. Figure 2(a) shows schematic representations of the three genes, including the location of each T-DNA insertion. In parallel with us, another group independently isolated atTic40 knockout mutants (CITATION). The results of CITATION are therefore discussed extensively throughout this report. [[FIGURE]] We identified two, independent alleles of each knockout mutation. Initially, we identified two alleles of tic40 (tic40-3 and tic40-4) and one allele each of the other mutations (tic110-1 and hsp93-V-1). All of the data presented in this report (unless specifically indicated otherwise) were derived using these original lines; the two tic40 alleles were used interchangeably and gave identical results. The additional tic110 and hsp93-V alleles shown in Figure 2(a) were identified subsequently, and were used to confirm results obtained using the original alleles; data derived using these additional alleles are referred to specifically in the relevant sections below. In segregating families, the selectable markers associated with the tic40 and hsp93-V T-DNA insertions all showed standard Mendelian inheritance (3:1 segregation ratios), indicating the presence of a single T-DNA insertion site in each case (Table 1). By contrast, both tic110 T-DNA insertions produced segregation ratios of approximately 2:1, suggesting that the tic110 mutation may be lethal, in the homozygous state, during a very early stage of development (Table 1). Accordingly, when 22 plants carrying the tic110-1 T-DNA insertion (selected based on their phosphinothricin resistance) were genotyped by PCR, all were found to be heterozygous for the mutation (data not shown). Therefore, all analyses of the tic110 mutants were conducted using heterozygous plants. For the other mutants (tic40 and hsp93-V), homozygous lines were identified phenotypically based on the T-DNA-associated selectable marker, and by PCR analysis. aThe pale/yellow-green phenotypes of tic110-1 and tic110-2 were scored after 21 days growth on soil. bAll seedlings were classified as green due to the lack of a clear pale/yellow-green phenotype in young, in vitro-grown tic110 plants. cThese plants were derived from a back-cross to Col-0 wild type. dAll seedlings were classified as green due to scoring difficulties caused by the genetic silencing of the kanamycin resistance marker. eChi-square tests evaluated ‘goodness of fit’ of the observed ratios to 3:1 (tic40 and hsp93-V) and 2:1 (tic110) respectively; degrees of freedom = 1. To confirm that each of the mutants is null for the respective component, we employed RT-PCR and immunoblotting (Figure 2b,c). The RNA (for RT-PCR) and isolated chloroplast (for immunoblotting) samples used for these experiments were derived from 10- and 14-day-old homozygous individuals grown in vitro respectively; in the case of the tic110 mutant, heterozygous individuals were used. The atToc33 knockout mutant, ppi1, was included as a control in each experiment (CITATION). Figure 2(b) demonstrates that each T-DNA insertion (with the exception of the tic110 insertion) abolishes expression of the corresponding full-length mRNA; the tic110 mutant displayed residual atTIC110 expression because the plants were not homozygous for the T-DNA insertion. Figure 2(c) shows that all three proteins are present in isolated chloroplasts, confirming their localization in this organelle. Furthermore, all of the mutants were found to be at least partly deficient in the appropriate component (Figure 2c). However, only tic40 was found to completely lack the relevant protein. The fact that Hsp93 protein could be detected in the hsp93-V mutant most likely indicates that the anti-pea-Hsp93 polyclonal antibody used does not distinguish between the two Arabidopsis Hsp93 proteins, which share 91% sequence identity; the fact that hsp93-V is null at the mRNA level (Figure 2b) supports this conclusion. The data presented in Figure 2(b,c) suggested that Tic110 expression is slightly reduced in tic110 heterozygotes. To obtain more conclusive evidence for this apparent gene-dosage effect, we analysed atTic110 protein abundance in young leaves of more mature plants (the visible phenotype associated with the heterozygous tic110 mutation is more pronounced during later development; see later). Dilution series of wild-type and mutant protein samples were used to prepare blots, and these were probed for Tic110 and, as a control, stromal Hsp70 (Figure 2d). When the Tic110 bands were quantified and normalized with respect to Hsp70, we were able to deduce that Tic110 protein abundance in tic110 heterozygotes is equivalent to approximately 49.5% (±2.1%; n = 3) of the wild-type level; signal intensities were found to saturate slightly at the highest protein concentration (20 μg; Figure 2d), and so only data for the three lowest protein concentrations (2.5, 5 and 10 μg) were used in our calculations. These data confirm that tic110 affects the accumulation of atTic110 protein, even in the heterozygous state. The non-Mendelian segregation ratios associated with both tic110 T-DNA insertions (Table 1), and the fact that all 22 phosphinothricin-resistant tic110-1 plants that we genotyped by PCR were heterozygous for the mutation (data not shown), suggested that the homozygous tic110 genotype may be lethal during embryogenesis. To investigate this possibility, we analysed the seeds within seven mature tic110-1 siliques and 30 mature tic110-2 siliques. As expected, aborted seeds were observed at a relatively high frequency in each of the tic110 siliques examined (Figure 3a). We observed 101 aborted seeds in a total of 387 seeds in the tic110-1 mutant, and 397 aborted seeds in a total of 1544 in the tic110-2 mutant. The frequency of the aborted seeds (approximately 25% in each case) strongly suggests that tic110 is embryo-lethal in the homozygous state. The fact that the marker genes associated with both tic110 T-DNA insertions segregated with ratios slightly less than 2:1 (Table 1) suggests that the mutation may also have a slight effect on gametophytic transmission. [[FIGURE]] To determine the stage of development at which tic110 exerts its embryo-lethal effect, we characterized embryogenesis in tic110 mutant plants using Nomarski optics. Figure 3 shows equivalent developmental series for normal (panels b–e) and mutant (panels f–i) embryos within immature, heterozygous tic110 siliques. Morphologically, normal and mutant embryos were almost indistinguishable at the proembryo stage in young tic110 siliques (data not shown), and stereotypic cell division patterns were observed within the embryo-proper and suspensor regions of most embryos (data not shown). However, early defects do occur in tic110 homozygotes, because abnormal, asymmetric (Figure 3f) or unsynchronized (Figure 3g) divisions were observed in some delayed embryos within older siliques that contained either globular- or triangular-stage normal embryos (Figure 3, compare b with f, and c with g). Mutant embryos displayed retarded development, such that the embryos within tic110 siliques spanned more than two developmental stages (Table 2, mutant siliques 3–9); embryos within wild-type siliques span only two successive stages (Table 2). The proportion of embryos showing delayed development in tic110 siliques could most easily be determined when the majority of normal embryos within those siliques were at the torpedo stage (Figure 3e). In mutant siliques 7–9, for example, 20–24% of embryos were delayed at the proembryo or globular stages (Table 2). Although mutant embryos did reach the procambial stage, clear protuberances appeared on the surface of the embryo-proper, giving these embryos an abnormal, ‘raspberry-like’ phenotype (Figure 3i) (CITATION; CITATION). Suspensor formation was essentially normal in tic110 homozygotes, although we did observe further division of the uppermost suspensor cell (the hypophysis), which normally contributes to the root cap (Figure 3h,i). aProembryo stage includes one-cell to 16-cell stage embryos. Embryo developmental stage names refer to the morphology of the embryo-proper. Mutant embryos did not progress beyond the globular stage, and the endosperm remained uncellularized in mutant seeds (Figure 3i). Accumulation of chlorophyll (which normally commences at the heart stage when chloroplast development initiates) was never observed within mutant tic110 embryos (data not shown). In conclusion, our data indicate that functional atTic110 protein is essential for embryo development and morphogenesis beyond the globular stage. The visible phenotypes of the mutants were examined under in vitro growth conditions, and also when the plants were grown on soil. We observed that all of the knockout mutants displayed visible, yellow-green phenotypes (Figure 4a, Table 1), providing evidence for the involvement of each protein in chloroplast biogenesis. The tic40-3 and tic40-4 mutants described here (both Col-0 ecotype) appeared very similar to the tic40-2 mutant (also Col-0 ecotype) described by CITATION, but not as severely pale as the tic40-1 mutant (Ws ecotype). Such ecotypic effects on mutant phenotype severity have been suggested previously (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Amongst the different mutants reported here, tic40 exhibited the most severely chlorotic phenotype, hsp93-V had an intermediate phenotype and heterozygous tic110 plants had the weakest phenotype. It is particularly interesting that heterozygous tic110 plants have a chlorotic phenotype (indicating that the tic110 mutation is semi-dominant), as the tic40 and hsp93-V mutations are completely recessive (Table 1), as indeed are other, previously described import apparatus mutations (CITATION; CITATION). The tic40 and hsp93-V mutants were significantly smaller than the wild type (Figure 4a), but nevertheless flowered at about the same time as wild-type plants (data not shown). All of the mutants were able to complete their life cycle and produce seeds. To quantify the severity of chlorosis in the knockout mutants, we made chlorophyll measurements. Developmental fluctuations in chlorophyll accumulation were assessed by conducting a time-course analysis, starting on the fifth day after germination. All mutant plants contained reduced chlorophyll concentrations throughout development, regardless of whether they were grown in vitro (data not shown) or on soil (Figure 4b). Although only moderate chlorophyll deficiencies were found in the tic110 mutant, this phenotype was clearly apparent in heterozygotes of both tic110 alleles (Figure 4c). The mutant with the most severe visible phenotype, tic40, also displayed the lowest pigment concentrations, reaching only one-third of the wild-type level by the end of the analysis. This mutant behaved much like ppi1, which was included again for comparison (Figure 4b). The chlorophyll content of hsp93-V plants increased until the 15th day (Figure 4b), after which a slight reduction in chlorophyll concentration occurred. This observation may reflect the fact that atHSP93-V is expressed at particularly high levels during later development (Figure 1c). Alternatively, it may indicate that an additional role for atHsp93-V (e.g. proteolysis) comes into play later in development. In summary, the data indicate that all three genes are important for chloroplast biogenesis throughout development, although atHSP93-V seems to be relatively more important later on, most likely due to reduced expression of atHSP93-III at this time. Two lines of evidence confirm that the observed phenotypes were due to the presence of the tic110, tic40 and hsp93-V T-DNA insertions. First of all, the additional alleles of each mutation described earlier (Figure 2a) exhibited identical phenotypes (Table 1, Figure 4c; data not shown). Secondly, analyses of at least 30 independent families, for each mutant, confirmed the tight genetic linkage of each visible phenotype with the corresponding T-DNA-associated selectable marker (data not shown). We next addressed the question of whether the visible phenotypes of the mutants correlate with structural defects at the leaf, cellular and organellar levels. To this end, we used both light and electron microscopy to study the mutants. For tic40 and hsp93-V, we analysed cotyledons from 5-day-old plants; plants of this age were used because previous work revealed more pronounced defects in young ppi1 plants (CITATION). This early period of development is also characterized by high levels of plastid and cell division. Once again, the ppi1 mutant was used as a control. Because tic110 plants display a more severe visible phenotype in older, expanding tissues, we examined the primary leaves of 10-day-old plants for this mutant. Equivalent tissues from wild-type plants of the same age were analysed in each case. Our light micrographs suggested that the tic40 chloroplasts were only slightly smaller than those in the wild type (Figure 5a), but revealed that the tic40 mesophyll cells contained significantly fewer chloroplasts than equivalent wild-type, tic110 and hsp93-V cells (Figure 5a, Table 3, data not shown). By contrast, the ppi1 mutant (which has a very similar visible phenotype to tic40; see Figure 4a) seemed to have much smaller chloroplasts than the wild type (Figure 5a), and a more normal number of chloroplasts per cell (Figure 5a, Table 3). Whereas the chloroplasts in tic40 were rather sporadically distributed within each cell, ppi1 chloroplast distribution was completely normal (Figure 5a). These differences between tic40 and ppi1 (as well as the ultrastructural differences referred to below) might reflect the fact that tic40 exerts a general effect on chloroplast import (see later), whereas the ppi1 mutation affects the import of photosynthetic proteins with a degree of specificity (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] aCross-sectional area was calculated using the following formula: π × 0.25 × length × width. Thus, the values given are approximations only, as the formula calculates the area of a perfect elliptical shape. Number of chloroplasts per cell cross-section data were calculated using light micrographs. All other data were calculated using electron micrographs. We also observed that the cellular organization of the mesophyll tissue was rather disorganized in both tic40 and ppi1 (Figure 5a). Leaf anatomy in the other, less severely pale mutants was essentially normal (data not shown), and so this phenotype is most likely a general reflection of the severity of the chloroplast biogenesis defects in these two mutants. Similar mesophyll disorganization in other chlorotic mutants has been interpreted to occur as a result of retarded growth and division rates of mesophyll cells as epidermal and vascular tissues expand (CITATION). The electron micrographs revealed that wild-type chloroplasts were not completely mature at 5 days after germination, but that they nevertheless contained thylakoids and substantial granal stacks (Figure 5b). Interestingly, tic40 chloroplasts were more spherical in shape than wild-type chloroplasts, having a rather ‘swollen’ appearance (Figure 5b, Table 3), and contained dramatically reduced thylakoid membrane networks with smaller granal stacks (Figure 5b); similar observations were reported by CITATION. Thylakoid development was also strongly affected by the ppi1 mutation (Figure 5b), but ppi1 chloroplasts retained a normal, disc-like shape (Figure 5b, Table 3). The electron micrographs also confirmed the organellar size differences suggested by the light micrographs: using cross-sectional area as a measure of size, ppi1 chloroplasts were found to be 71% smaller than wild-type chloroplasts, whereas tic40 chloroplasts were only 45% smaller (Table 3). Finally, the hsp93-V and tic110 mutant chloroplasts were less well developed than wild-type chloroplasts, but more advanced than those in tic40 plants (Figure 5b). In all mutants, starch granule formation was delayed in comparison with wild type (Figure 5b). Overall, the chloroplast ultrastructural phenotypes reflected the visible phenotypes of the mutants, with respect to severity, in that the most dramatic changes were observed in tic40 (and ppi1) and the most mild changes were observed in heterozygous tic110 plants. The data demonstrate that atTic110, atTic40 and atHsp93-V are required for normal chloroplast development in vivo. It is likely that the mutant chloroplasts do not support sufficient import of essential proteins to allow normal chlorophyll accumulation, thylakoid membrane development and chloroplast growth. To obtain direct evidence that the mutations affect chloroplast protein import, the protein import efficiencies of isolated mutant chloroplasts were assessed in vitro. For these studies, we used the precursor of the small subunit of Rubisco (preSSU; a component of photosynthetic dark reactions) and the precursor of a 50S ribosomal subunit protein (preL11; a component of the chloroplast's endogenous genetic system). These two preproteins (one photosynthetic, one non-photosynthetic) were selected as previous studies revealed that some translocon mutations (such as ppi1) affect the import of photosynthetic and non-photosynthetic preproteins to different degrees (CITATION; CITATION; Kubis et al., 2003, 2004). The assays were carried out using established procedures (CITATION; CITATION), and thermolysin treatments confirmed the chloroplast location of the processed protein form in each case (data not shown). Possible indirect effects of the mutations (due to photosynthetic energy deficit) were eliminated by supplementing each assay with 5 mm ATP, which is sufficient to support import in the dark to the same level as it occurs in the light (CITATION). As shown in Figure 6, import of the two tested preproteins was reduced, roughly equivalently, in all three mutants. The amount of protein imported into mutant chloroplasts, at each time point, was expressed as a percentage of the amount imported into wild-type chloroplasts by the last time point of each experiment (Figure 6). Low yields in tic40 chloroplast isolation experiments, presumably caused by the apparent low number of chloroplasts per unit leaf area in tic40 (Figure 5a, Table 3), limited the number of time points for which we could generate sufficient data for this mutant. The maximal amount of imported SSU was reduced by approximately 30% in hsp93-V chloroplasts (Figure 6a), and by approximately 40% in tic40 chloroplasts (Figure 6e); the SSU import data reported here for tic40 are quantitatively similar to those reported by CITATION. The maximal amount of imported L11 was reduced by approximately 35% in both hsp93-V and tic40 chloroplasts (Figure 6b,f). The import defect of heterozygous tic110 chloroplasts was less pronounced. Nevertheless, small and roughly equivalent reductions in the amount of imported SSU and L11 were consistently and reproducibly observed, revealing a subtle but significant import defect (Figure 6c,d). The moderate nature of the tic110 import defect is consistent with the moderate visible (Figure 4a) and chloroplast biogenesis (Figure 5b) defects displayed by this mutant, particularly during early development (Figure 4b). [[FIGURE]] In summary, the results show that chloroplasts from all three mutants have a reduced capacity to import proteins. The observed import defects were not specific to photosynthetic or non-photosynthetic preproteins, and so the data are consistent with the hypothesis that each component plays a general, non-substrate-specific role in chloroplast protein import. To genetically assess functional relationships between the atTic110, atTic40 and atHsp93-V proteins, we crossed the corresponding knockout mutants to each other and then identified all three double-mutant combinations in subsequent generations by growth on appropriate selective media and PCR analysis. Assessment of double-mutant phenotypes is an approach commonly used to categorize and assign different mutations (and therefore genes and proteins) to different pathways and processes. Two mutations that affect different processes generally give rise to a double-mutant phenotype equal to the sum of the constituent single mutant phenotypes; this phenomenon is termed additivity. For example, double mutants possessing unrelated mutations that each affect chloroplast biogenesis have chlorotic phenotypes more severe than either single mutant (CITATION). By contrast, non-additive interactions – such as epistasis, in which one mutation masks the phenotype of the other – are frequently taken as evidence for a close functional relationship between the affected components. Interestingly, when we assessed the phenotypes of our three double mutants, none were found to show phenotypic additivity (Figure 7; data not shown). Although the hsp93-V and tic40 single mutants both displayed strong chlorophyll deficiencies after 10 days growth (46 and 77%, respectively, relative to wild type), tic40 hsp93-V double homozygotes were no more chlorotic than the tic40 single mutant (Figure 7a). In fact, the hsp93-V mutation actually gave rise to a partial suppression of the tic40 phenotype at this stage of development, as the double homozygote contained approximately 33% more chlorophyll than the tic40 single mutant (Figure 7a). The double mutants were also visibly greener than tic40 and slightly larger in size (Figure 7b). These observations were made in repeated experiments using multiple, different seed stocks for each genotype, indicating that the differences observed were not attributable to differences in seed quality. As shown in Figure 7(c,d), the tic40 mutation could also be partially suppressed by the tic110 mutation, as double mutants (genotype: tic40/tic40; +/tic110) were slightly larger and greener than tic40 single mutants. While the tic110 mutation did not significantly suppress the hsp93-V mutation, neither did it add to the hsp93-V phenotype, as hsp93-V tic110 double mutants had exactly the same appearance as hsp93-V single mutants (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] As phenotypic additivity was not observed in any of the three double-mutant combinations examined, these data suggest that Tic110, Tic40 and Hsp93 may function in close association with each other during chloroplast protein import in vivo, as has been proposed based on in vitro biochemical data.
!~MM~! 
