!~ABS~! In a plant cell, a subset of actin filaments function as a scaffold that positions the endomembrane system and acts as a substrate on which organelle motility occurs. Other actin filament arrays appear to be more dynamic and reorganize in response to growth signals and external cues. The distorted group of trichome morphology mutants provides powerful genetic tools to study the control of actin filament nucleation in the context of morphogenesis. In this article, we report that DISTORTED3 (DIS3) encodes a plant-specific SCAR/WAVE homolog. Null alleles of DIS3, like those of other Arabidopsis thaliana WAVE and Actin-Related Protein (ARP) 2/3 subunit genes, cause trichome distortion, defects in cell–cell adhesion, and reduced hypocotyl growth in etiolated seedlings. DIS3 efficiently activates the actin filament nucleation and branching activity of vertebrate Arp2/3 and functions within a WAVE-ARP2/3 pathway in vivo. DIS3 may assemble into a WAVE complex via a physical interaction with a highly diverged Arabidopsis Abi-1–like bridging protein. These results demonstrate the utility of the Arabidopsis trichome system to understand how the WAVE and ARP2/3 complexes translate signaling inputs into a coordinated morphogenetic response.
!~RES~! We isolated several recessive dis3 alleles in a mutant screen for plants that had trichomes with a normal branch number but with a swollen shape. After branch initiation, wild-type stalks and branches elongate in a highly predictable and coordinated manner (CITATION), and the tip transitions from a hemispherical dome to a progressively refined pointed morphology (Figure 1A). Stage 4 trichomes have a blunt tip (CITATION). Similarly staged dis3 trichomes displayed abnormal cell swelling and reduced branch length (Figure 1B), and 20% (n = 25) of the dis3 trichomes swelled to a diameter exceeding 30 μm, a value that is never observed in the wild type. This percentage of severely swollen cells was less than the values reported for similarly staged dis1 (arp3, 40%), dis2 (arpc2, 30%), pir (sra-1, 36%), and grl (nap1, 32%) mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). The decreased severity of the dis3 phenotype compared with other WAVE and ARP2/3 subunit mutants was also apparent in mature trichomes. Of the dis3-1 (n = 105), dis3-2 (n = 89), dis3-4 (n = 91), and dis3-T1 (n = 65) trichomes that were measured on the first leaf pair, between 5 and 10% had elongated stalks and tapered branches that closely resembled those of the wild type. The fraction of trichomes with a wild-type appearance was 28% (n = 97) for dis3-3. As a standard for comparison, 100% of the dis2 (arpc2) trichomes (n = 103) had a strong distorted phenotype. For all of the dis3 alleles, trichomes displaying distortion fell into two categories. Approximately half of them had a mild phenotype in which the interbranch zone, which is defined as the stalk-like cell volume that connects the most basal branch and the adjacent proximal branch, was abnormally expanded (Figure 1D, arrow). In most wild-type trichomes, the interbranch zone was minimal (Table 1) and the branches emanated from a confined apical region of the stalk (Figure 1C). The remaining fraction of dis3 trichomes had short and twisted branches and cell swelling at multiple locations (Figure 1E). [[FIGURE]] Quantitation of the Trichome Phenotypes of Col, dis3, dis2, and dis3 dis2 Plants To better understand the shape defects of dis3 trichomes, we compared directly several parameters of wild-type, dis3, and dis2 (arpc2) trichomes. Wild-type trichomes usually contain three branches of progressively shorter lengths. The longest had a mean length of ∼230 μm, and the shortest branch had a mean length of ∼140 μm (Table 1). For dis3-1 trichomes, the mean length of two of three branches was significantly less than the wild type. However, the reduced branch length of dis3 was less severe than dis2 (arpc2) (Table 1) and published mean branch lengths of pir (sra-1) and grl (nap1) (CITATION; CITATION). dis3-1 and dis2 (arpc2) trichomes contained an abnormally expanded interbranch zone that was significantly longer than the wild type (Table 1). Although distorted mutants are abnormally swollen and occasionally acquire large cell diameters that are never observed in the wild type, the mean maximum diameters of dis2-1 (arpc2) and dis3-1 trichomes were not significantly different from the wild type (Table 1). The branch lengths of dis3-1, dis3-2, dis3-3, dis3-4, and dis3-T1 also were measured from digital images acquired on a dissecting microscope. For each of these alleles, at least two of the three trichome branches were significantly shorter than the wild type, and there were no clear differences among the dis3 alleles (Table 2). Quantitation of the Branch Lengths from Trichomes on the First Leaf Pair of Wild-Type, dis3-1, dis3-3, dis3-4, and dis3-T1 Plants We examined all of the dis3 alleles for additional cotyledon and hypocotyl phenotypes. At 12 d after germination (DAG), the wild-type cotyledon epidermis consisted of a population of highly lobed, interdigitated pavement cells (Figure 1F). In the wild type, adjacent cells tightly adhere, and the only gaps we have observed correspond to stomatal pores. As reported for several ARP2/3 and WAVE complex subunit mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION, CITATION), dis3 seedlings displayed aberrant connections between pavement cells (Figure 1G). The severity of the cell–cell adhesion defects was quite variable within and between genotypes, but for each of the dis3 alleles, almost all tissue culture–grown cotyledons had obvious gaps between pavement cells. The mean number of gaps/mm2 ranged from 13 to 52 gaps/mm2 (Table 3). Gaps were commonly observed adjacent to guard cells and at seemingly random locations along the pavement cell perimeter. The presence of gaps does not correlate with a decreased cell size or altered shape (CITATION). ARP2/3 and WAVE subunit mutants consistently display pavement cell–cell adhesion defects in both soil- and tissue culture–grown plants. However, in soil-grown dis3 seedlings, gaps were extremely rare. Under these growth conditions, using scanning electron microscopy of cryo-fixed samples and reflected light in a light microscope, we could detect gaps, but the frequency was <1/whole cotyledon (data not shown). Defective cell–cell contacts were also observed in the hypocotyls of etiolated dis3 seedlings (Figure 2). Like other distorted group mutants, etiolated dis3 seedlings had a reduced hypocotyl length, and the mean cell size was reduced in the hypocotyl epidermis (Table 3). The failure of cells to adhere was not the result of reduced hypocotyl elongation alone because the zwichel (zwi) mutant, which presumably affects microtubule-based processes (CITATION), had a reduced hypocotyl length but had no apparent cell–cell adhesion defects (Table 3, Figure 2C). Quantitation of the Hypocotyl Size and Cotyledon Cell–Cell Adhesion Defects of Wild-Type and dis3 Plants [[FIGURE]] A severely simplified cotyledon and leaf pavement cell shape has been reported for a subset of ARP2/3 subunit mutants (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). Mutants of the WAVE complex homologs SRA1 and NAP1 have a highly lobed pavement cell morphology (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We focused our analyses of pavement cell shape on the apical region of healthy 12-DAG cotyledons. This minimizes the contribution of cell division and allows us to examine cell shape in a population of cells that are, to a large extent, fully expanded and synchronized in their development (CITATION). In this population of pavement cells, we reported subtle defects in lobe formation for dis1 (arp3) (CITATION) but no consistent effects on cell shape for other ARP2/3 and WAVE complex subunit mutants (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). Similarly staged dis3-1 cotyledons contained highly lobed pavement cells (Figure 1G) that were not noticeably different than the wild type (Figure 1F). However, like other ARP2/3 and WAVE subunit mutants, lobe formation was occasionally reduced in regions where cell–cell adhesion defects were the most severe (data not shown). Although the overall plant architecture of ARP2/3 and WAVE complex subunit mutants is normal, hypocotyl length is reduced in etiolated seedlings, and shoot fresh weight is also reduced. The organ level defects of etiolated hypocotyls have been correlated with reduced cell size and actin localization defects (CITATION; CITATION). Etiolated dis3-1 seedlings had a reduced hypocotyl length (Table 3). Unlike several other distorted group mutants that reduce fresh weight by ∼30%, we failed to detect a difference in fresh weight between dis3-1 seedlings and segregating wild-type control plants. Taken as a whole, DIS3, WAVE, and ARP2/3 subunit mutants displayed the same array of phenotypes, but in many aspects those of dis3 were the least severe. Complementation tests and mapping data showed that dis3-1 did not correspond to any of the eight known distorted group loci (CITATION). The dis3-1 allele was closely linked to a T-DNA insertion in AT2G34680. The failure to detect DNA sequence polymorphisms in AT2G34680 in a subset of dis3 alleles and the lack of a trichome phenotype in AT2G34680 knockout lines led us to test the idea that DIS3 corresponded to either of the linked genes AT2G34150 (SCAR1) or AT2G38440 (SCAR2). These genes were candidates because both encoded proteins with a putative N-terminal SCAR homology domain and a C-terminal WA domain. The SCAR homology and acidic regions of SCAR/WAVE proteins mediate WAVE complex assembly (CITATION; CITATION) and Arp2/3 activation (CITATION; CITATION), respectively. In the three dis3 backgrounds tested, SCAR1 was not affected (data not shown), but SCAR2 coding information was disrupted in each case. The dis3-4 allele deleted eight nucleotides of AT2G38440 spanning +4357 to +4364 (relative to the A+1TG start codon; Figure 3A). The dis3-4 deletion caused a reading frame shift after amino acid 1230, the coding of eight amino acids of non-sense, and then a stop codon. The dis3-1, dis3-2, and dis3-3 alleles were isolated as untagged T-DNA alleles. Based on PCR and DNA gel blot analyses, dis3-3 contained an insertion of ∼3.5 kb located in the interval from −1209 to −1095 (Figures 3B and 3C). The dis3-3 transcript lacked coding sequences for the SCAR homology domain but did encode an intact WA domain (Figure 3D). Perhaps the upstream insertion in dis3-3 unmasks or generates a cryptic transcription start site downstream from the SCAR homology domain. The weaker phenotype of dis3-3 compared with other dis3 alleles suggested that a partially functional protein accumulates. The dis3-1 and dis3-2 alleles contained a large DNA insertion of ∼10 and 5 kb, respectively (Figures 3B and 3C). Both insertions resided in exon 6, caused premature termination of transcription, and eliminated the WA coding region (Figure 3D). To isolate a likely null dis3 allele, we analyzed the T-DNA insertion line SALK_057481 (CITATION), which contained a T-DNA insertion in the second exon of AT2G38440 (Figure 3A) and caused premature transcriptional termination. The SCAR homology domain was truncated, and the downstream WA coding region was removed (Figure 3D). Lines that were homozygous for SALK_057481 had distorted trichomes, shoot epidermal cell adhesion defects, and reduced hypocotyl elongation phenotypes that were indistinguishable from the other dis3 alleles. The failure of homozygous SALK_057481 lines to complement dis3-1 in crosses proved that it was an allele of DIS3 and subsequently was renamed dis3-T1. The molecular characterization of five independent dis3 alleles provided strong proof that DIS3 corresponded to AT2G38440. Therefore, we renamed DIS3 to DIS3/SCAR2. [[FIGURE]] We sequenced a full-length DIS3/SCAR2 cDNA clone, Kazusa clone RZL03H01, to define the encoded polypeptide (GenBank accession number AY817016). The deduced amino acid sequence of DIS3/SCAR2 agreed perfectly with the predicted gene model and encoded a 1399–amino acid polypeptide with a pI of 4.5. DIS3/SCAR2 is one of five Arabidopsis proteins that share amino acid identity with the N-terminal SCAR homology domain of the WAVE/SCAR family of Arp2/3 activators (CITATION; CITATION). The level of amino acid identity between the SCAR homology domain of DIS3/SCAR2 and non-plant Scar/WAVEs was highest toward the N- and C-terminal ends (Figure 4B). The N-terminal subregion of the SCAR homology domain of Scar/WAVE1 is necessary and sufficient for an interaction with the WAVE complex subunit Abi-1 (CITATION) and may also bind to the WAVE complex subunit HSPC300 (CITATION). DIS3/SCAR2, like non-plant homologs, contained a short stretch of basic amino acids adjacent to the SCAR homology domain (Figure 4A). [[FIGURE]] All known Scar/WAVE proteins contain a WA domain. SCAR1, DIS3/SCAR2, SCAR3, and SCAR4 have a WA domain, and the WA domain of SCAR1 appears to bind G-actin (CITATION). Although the WA domain of DIS3/SCAR2 encodes key conserved acidic and hydrophobic residues that are present in all WASP/Scar/WAVE family members, there is some variation in the length and composition of the connector region (Figure 4C). DIS3/SCAR2 does not encode an extended Pro-rich region that is characteristic of non-plant WASP/Scar/WAVE family members. Instead, the analogous region of DIS3/SCAR2 contained a large central region of no known function (Figure 4A). The similar cell shape and actin cytoskeleton defects of dis3 and ARP2/3 and WAVE complex subunit mutants strongly suggested that DIS3/SCAR2 functions within the same pathway. We constructed the dis3-1 dis2-1 double mutant and assayed its trichome phenotypes. The double mutant displayed a strong distorted trichome phenotype that was indistinguishable from dis2-1 (Table 1). However, the mean branch length of dis3-1 dis2-1 trichomes was reduced significantly when compared with dis3-1 alone. We wanted to determine if the gene expression pattern of DIS3/SCAR2 and other SCAR genes overlapped with each other and with known WAVE and ARP2/3 subunit genes. All of the SCAR family members assayed, like PIR (SRA-1) and DIS2 (ARPC2), were widely expressed in all of the major organs examined (Figure 5). There were modest differences in the relative levels of SCAR1 through SCAR4 expression in different organs, but each of the SCAR genes were expressed in all of the major organs that were analyzed. These data are consistent with the idea that the SCAR genes function in the same organs, but the cell- and tissue-specific gene expression patterns of these genes need to be examined in detail. DIS3/SCAR2 expression levels did not correlate with the growth rates of leaves. Expression levels in actively growing (Figure 5, lane 7) versus fully expanded leaves (Figure 5, lane 6) were similar. [[FIGURE]] WAVE and ARP2/3 subunit mutants fail to organize a population of loosely aligned actin bundles at the earliest stages of branch elongation (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we assayed the actin-based phenotypes of dis3 cells at the onset of the cell swelling phenotype during early stage 4. Representative actin localization results are shown using the dis3-1 allele, and similar actin defects were observed in dis3-T1 and dis3-4 trichomes (data not shown). The actin cytoskeleton of WAVE and ARP2/3 subunit mutants have been analyzed using different probes to label actin, with different results. Using green fluorescent protein (GFP):TALIN as a probe, several groups have described the actin cytoskeleton in ARP2/3 and WAVE complex mutant trichomes as excessively bundled (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). When the actin cytoskeleton is visualized in WAVE and ARP2/3 mutants using antibodies or phalloidin, or in living cells probed with GFP:ABD2, a disorganization of actin bundles is revealed at early stages as well as a reduction in the levels of actin filaments at later stages (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). In our hands, the use of phalloidin-labeled fixed cells and GFP:ABD2 (CITATION) yielded the most consistent actin labeling results. Wild-type stage 3/4 trichomes contain poorly developed branch buds and branches with a blunt tip morphology. At this stage, the branches are densely cytoplasmic and lack an enlarged central vacuole. As shown previously, fixed wild-type stage 3/4 trichomes labeled with phalloidin contained a population of actin filaments and bundles that reside entirely within the core branch cytoplasm and were loosely aligned with the long axis of the branch (eight of nine branches, 10 to 25 μm in length) (Figures 6A and 6B). As shown previously (CITATION; CITATION), and confirmed in this study, very few similarly staged dis2-1 trichomes (3 of 13 branches, 10 to 25 μm in length) have organized bundles in the core cytoplasm, and many of the core bundles were continuous with cortical bundles (Figures 6G and 6H). The actin defects of stage 3/4 dis3-1 trichomes were subtle and resembled those of pir (sra-1) and grl (nap1) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). More than half of the phalloidin-labeled dis3-1 stage 3/4 branches (10 of 16, 10- to 25-μm branches) contained a relatively normal looking array of polarized cytoplasmic bundles (Figures 6C and 6D). The remaining dis3 stage3/4 branches of this size class contained randomly oriented actin filaments or bundles (Figures 6E and 6F). [[FIGURE]] When crossed into the wild-type (Figures 6I and 6J) and dis3-1 (Figures 6K to 6N) backgrounds and imaged in living cells, GFP:ABD2 yielded similar results. In general, compared with phalloidin-labeled cells, the actin cytoskeleton visualized with GFP:ABD2 appeared slightly less bundled and diminished in the extreme apical regions of developing branches. We have previously documented the slightly increased bundling of phalloidin-labeled filaments compared with antibody-labeled filaments in fixed cells (CITATION). Approximately half of the dis3-1 trichomes had a dense population of bundles that resembled the wild type (Figures 6K and 6L). Another population of dis3-1 trichomes contained cytoplasmic bundles but failed to generate an organized array (Figures 6M and 6N). Therefore, using two different probes to detect actin, we detected clear actin bundle disorganization in the smallest size class of branches. At later stages of branch development (branches ranging from 26 to 75 μm), two classes of actin organization were observed in dis3-1 trichomes. Ten of 18 branches contained a population of aligned core bundles in the apical region of the branch (Figures 7C and 7D). The remaining dis3 branches in this size class had a core cytoplasm that was dominated by the vacuole with no obvious actin bundle organization in the branch apex (Figures 7E and 7F). All of the wild-type trichomes in this size class maintained a dense population of cytoplasmic bundles in the branch apex (10 of 10 cells; Figures 7A and 7B). A quantitative measurement of the relative amount of cytoplasmic actin filaments in elongated dis3 branches was consistent with the localization data. In both phalloidin (Figure 7G) and GFP:ABD2 (Figure 7H) labeling experiments, a subset of stage 4/5 dis3 trichomes had reduced relative actin filament levels in the core cytoplasm. [[FIGURE]] It has been reported that ARP2/3 subunit genes affect the microtubule cytoskeleton (CITATION; CITATION). To determine if microtubules were affected at the onset of the cell swelling phenotype in dis3, we assayed for transverse cortical microtubules in stage 3/4 branches that were 10 to 25 μm in length (Figure 8A). In the wild type, 88% (n = 16) of the 10- to 25-μm branches had a clear transverse orientation of microtubules relative to the long axis. Signs of a reorientation of microtubules from a transverse to a helical or longitudinal arrangement were first detected in branches that were ∼30 μm in length, and 50% (n = 10) of the wild-type branches between 26 and 75 μm in length retained a transverse alignment. As wild-type branches elongated to lengths >50 μm, the frequency of cells having a helical or longitudinal alignment increased (Figure 8B). When dis3-1 trichomes at similar developmental stages were assayed for transverse microtubules, the proportion of cells having a transverse alignment was nearly identical: 90% (n = 10) transverse in 10- to 25-μm branches and 60% transverse (n = 10) in 26- to 75-μm branches. The timing of the transition from transverse to helical was similar in dis3-1 cells because, like the wild type, the transition from transverse to helical was first detected in 30-μm-long branches. An example of a transverse cortical array in normal looking dis3 stage 4 trichomes is illustrated in Figure 8C. In swollen dis3-1 stage 4 cells, branches with an obviously reduced length had a transverse microtubule array (Figure 8D, arrow). In both stage 4 (Figure 8D, arrowhead) and stage 5 trichomes (Figure 8E, arrowhead), the extent of random microtubule organization correlated with the extent of cell swelling. Normally shaped stage 5 dis3 trichomes displayed a highly organized microtubule cytoskeleton (Figure 8E, arrow). [[FIGURE]] The presence of a SCAR homology domain and a WA domain in DIS3/SCAR2 suggested that the protein assembles into a WAVE complex and positively regulates ARP2/3. We have shown that PIR (SRA-1) and GRL (NAP1) encode WAVE complex subunits that interact physically (CITATION; CITATION). If a five-subunit WAVE complex assembles in plants, an Abi-1–like function may be required to bind both NAP1 and SCAR/WAVE-like subunits (CITATION; CITATION). Arabidopsis encodes at least four proteins that share limited amino acid sequence identity with Abi-1 (Figure 9). One of them, Abi-1–like 1 (ABIL1 [AT2G46225]), was expressed throughout the plant (Figure 5) and is a reasonable candidate as a WAVE complex subunit. We tested the ability of ABIL1 to interact with GRL (NAP1) and the SCAR homology domain of DIS3/SCAR2 in the yeast two-hybrid assay. Because of the interchangeable functions of human and Arabidopsis WAVE complex subunits (CITATION; CITATION), human WAVE subunits serve as a useful control. In the yeast two-hybrid assay, full-length ABIL1 interacted with both GRL (NAP1) and human NAP1, as judged by the ability of yeast strains to grow on Leu−Trp−His− media and the activation of the β-galactosidase (β-Gal) reporter gene more than 15-fold relative to controls (Figure 10A). We next tested the ability of ABIL1 to interact with the conserved SCAR homology domain of DIS3/SCAR2. Yeast strains that harbored SCAR homology domain of DIS3/SCAR2 and ABIL1 fusion proteins grew on Leu−Trp−His− media and activated the β-Gal reporter gene more than 10-fold relative to controls (Figure 10B). A set of control experiments showed that none of the fusion proteins yielded growth on His− media or activated the β-Gal reporter on their own. The ABIL1–SCAR homology domain interaction was specific because ABIL1 failed to interact with human WAVE1 (SCAR), the C terminus of DIS3/SCAR2, or ROP2 in the same assay (data not shown). These data indicated that ABIL1 has the ability to recruit DIS3/SCAR2 to a WAVE complex. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We wanted to test directly the ability of DIS3/SCAR2 to bind to and activate ARP2/3. The identity of WASP and Scar as Arp2/3 activators was initially based on the ability of these proteins to bind to the ARPC3 subunit of Arp2/3 complex in a yeast two-hybrid assay (CITATION). A strong yeast two-hybrid interaction was detected between a C-terminal fragment of DIS3/SCAR2 spanning amino acids 1032 to 1399 that contained the WA domain (DIS3-WA) and ARPC3 (Figure 11A). Neither DIS3-WA nor human WAVE1 (SCAR) interacted with DIS2 (ARPC2). We constructed a DIS3/SCAR2 2-hybrid construct that deleted amino acids 1239 to 1399 and mimicked the dis3-4 allele (DIS3-ΔWA). The DIS3-ΔWA fusion protein did not interact with ARPC3, even though DIS3-ΔWA fusion protein levels in yeast extracts were on average twofold higher than the WA-containing construct (Figure 11B). To confirm that the interaction between DIS3-WA and ARPC3 was direct, binding between recombinant glutathione S-transferase (GST)-DIS3-WA and His-tagged ARPC3 was assayed in GST pull-down assays. GST-DIS3-WA (Figure 11C, top panel, lane 3), but not GST alone (Figure 11C, top panel, lane 6), was able to sediment ARPC3. The interaction was specific, because GST-DIS3-WA did not physically interact with the similarly sized His-tagged ROP2 protein (Figure 11C, bottom panel, lane 3). [[FIGURE]] If DIS3/SCAR2 is a bona fide ARP2/3 activator, it should increase the actin filament nucleation and branching activities of the complex. In an actin polymerization assay, bovine Arp2/3 alone does not affect the kinetics of actin filament assembly (Figures 12A and 12B). Known Arp2/3 activators, such as the WA domain of WASP, decreased the lag phase of actin polymerization and enhanced the polymerization rate in a dose-dependent manner (Figure 12A). In identical assays, a DIS3-WA protein fragment efficiently activated Arp2/3 at nanomolar concentrations (Figure 12B). One method to standardize the ability of different proteins to activate Arp2/3 is to plot the concentration of the activator versus the number of barbed ends produced at a defined point in the polymerization reaction. At saturating levels of activator (Figure 12C), the amount of ends produced by DIS3-WA was comparable to values that have been reported for human Scar-1 under similar experimental conditions (CITATION). The efficiency of DIS3-WA–dependent nucleation was less than that of WASP-WA. However, this result is expected because human SCAR/WAVE proteins are also less efficient Arp2/3 activators when compared with WASP (CITATION). We also assayed the ability of DIS3-WA to increase the actin filament branching activity of Arp2/3. Direct observation of the actin filaments generated in the presence of Arp2/3 alone yielded a very low fraction of branched actin filaments (Figures 12D and 12F). In the presence of DIS3-WA, the number of filaments that form branched structures was increased approximately threefold greater (Figures 12E and 12F). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The dis3-2, dis3-3, and dis3-4 alleles are in the Col-0 background and were isolated from T-DNA insertion pools obtained from the ABRC stock center. The dis3-1 allele was a gift from David Marks and is in the Col-0 background. zwi-3 was a gift from David Oppenheimer and is in the Col-0 background. The dis3-T1 allele (Salk_057481) was also obtained from the ABRC stock center. All alleles were backcrossed at least twice before use. Soil-grown plants were grown in Scotts Redi-Earth (Hope, AR) that was overlaid on an equal volume of coarse vermiculite under continuous illumination (110 μmol photons m−2 s−1) at 25°C. Tissue culture–grown plants were grown on half-strength MS plates with 1% sucrose at 24°C under continuous illumination (110 μmol photons m−2 s−1). The data reported for hypocotyl growth and actin localization were obtained using tissue culture–grown plants. Cell–cell adhesion defects were assayed using both soil- and tissue culture–grown plants. Trichome morphometry used soil-grown plants. The DIS3-SHD (amino acids 1 to 283) and DIS3-ΔWA (amino acids 1032 to 1238) clones were made using gene-specific primers and Pfu DNA polymerase (Statagene, La Jolla, CA) to amplify the coding regions from cDNA. The name and sequence of all oligonucleotide primers used in this article are given in Table 4. The oligonucleotide primers used to amplify DIS3-SHD fragment had introduced EcoRI and XhoI sites, and those used to amplify DIS3-ΔWA had introduced NcoI and EcoRI sites. PCR products were cloned into pCRII-TOPO (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) to generate pTOPO-DIS3-SHD and pTOPO- DIS3-ΔWA. The two-hybrid DIS3-WA construct (amino acids 1032 to 1399) was amplified similarly with oligonucleotide primers with introduced NcoI and EcoRI sites and was cloned as above to generate pTOPO-DIS3-WA. The DIS3-WA fragment used for recombinant protein expression in E. coli included amino acids 1084 to 1399 and was amplified from EST 171I23 (GenBank accession number R65505). BamHI and XhoI sites were introduced into the oligonucleotide primers and were used to clone the PCR product into the Gateway vector pENTR/D/TOPO (pEN) (Invitrogen) to generate pEN-1084WA. To create a full-length human WAVE1 clone, 1680 bp of the coding region was amplified from full-length cDNA (GenBank accession number D87459), with oligonucleotide primers having introduced NcoI and EcoRI sites, and cloned into pCRII-TOPO to generate pTOPO-HsWAVE1. Full-length ARPC3 and ABIL1 coding regions were amplified from cDNA and cloned into Gateway vector pENTR/D/TOPO (pEN) (Invitrogen) to generate pEN-ARPC3 and pEN-ABIL1. For ARPC3 amplification, NcoI and EcoRI sites, and for ABIL1 amplification, EcoRI and BamHI were introduced in the oligonucleotide primers. All PCR-generated clones were sequenced on both strands before use, and the introduction of restriction sites added two amino acids to the N termini of the fusion proteins. pTOPO-DIS3-SHD, pTOPO-DIS3-WA, pTOPO-DIS3-ΔWA, and pTOPO-HSWAVE1 were subcloned into the yeast two-hybrid GAL4-activation vector (prey) pACT2 using the appropriate restriction enzymes to generate pAT-DIS3-SHD, pAT- DIS3-WA, pAT- DIS3-ΔWA, and pAT-HSWAVE1, respectively. pEN-DIS2 (CITATION) and pEN-ARPC3 were subcloned into the yeast two-hybrid GAL4-DNA binding vector (bait) pAS2 using the appropriate restriction enzymes to generate pAS-DIS2 and pAS-ARPC3. pEN-ABIL1 was recombined into Gateway destination yeast two-hybrid bait (GAL4 DNA binding domain) vectors pDEST32 and pDEST32-Trp to generate pDS32-ABIL1 and pDS32-ABIL1-T, respectively. pDS22-ATNAP and pDS22-HSNAP constructs are as previously described (CITATION). The Names and Sequences of the Oligonucleotide Primers That Were Used in This Article For protein expression in E. coli, pEN-1084WA was subcloned into the GST expression vector pGEX6P-1 (GE Healthcare, Piscataway, NJ) as a BamHI and XhoI fragment to generate pGEX6P-1084WA. pEN-ARPC3 was subcloned into the N-terminal HIS expression vector pET30a (Novagen, Madison, WI) as a NcoI and EcoRI fragment to generate pET30a-ARPC3. To produce GST-DIS3-WA and ARPC3, the plasmids were freshly transformed into the E. coli strain Rossetta (Novagen), grown to an OD600 of 0.6 to 0.7, and induced with 200 μM isopropylthio-β-galactoside at 37°C for 3.5 h. GST-DIS3-WA and His-ARPC3 were purified with glutathione (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) or Ni2+ (Novagen) agarose beads, respectively, according to standard protocols. For yeast two-hybrid assays, pairs of bait and prey plasmids defined in the figures were cotransformed into the Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain Y190 using the lithium acetate transformation method. The transformants were selected on Leu−Trp− medium. A two-hybrid interaction was determined by colony formation on Leu−Trp−His− medium containing 40 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole. For each two-hybrid plasmid pair, liquid β-galactosidase assays were done in triplicate from three independent colonies using standard protocols (CITATION). To quantify the expression levels of DIS3-WA and DIS3-ΔWA in yeast two-hybrid strains, the soluble protein fraction of Y190 strains containing pAS-ARPC3 and pAT-DIS3-WA, pAT-DIS3-ΔWA, or pACT2 were extracted from 10 mL of overnight culture using a glass-bead extraction procedure, and protein gel blots were probed with anti-HA (BabCo, Richmond, CA) or anti-budding yeast α-Tubulin (Developmental Studies Hybridoma Bank, Iowa City, IA) antibodies. Based on densitometry of the protein gel blot, the mean ratio of total integrated signal from HA-tagged fusion proteins and tubulin was calculated for each fusion protein. In pull-down assays, bead-bound GST-DIS3-WA (1 μM) was mixed with 1 μM of His-ARPC3 in binding buffer containing 50 mM Hepes/KOH, pH 7.6, 20 mM KCl, and 5 mM MgCl2. Binding reactions were incubated at 4°C for 2 h. Total, bead-bound, and unbound fractions were separated by SDS-PAGE and transferred to nitrocellulose membranes. His-ARPC3 was detected with polyclonal anti-ARPC3 antibody (1:1000), and blots were quantified using densitometry. Anti-ARPC3 peptide antibodies were made in rabbits using amino acids 2 to 15 (CVYHSSFVDEEGVTK) and 25 to 41 (CKSHIKGPAPVSEQDKTD) of ARPC3 as antigens. As a control for nonspecific binding of GST-DIS3-WA to His-tagged proteins, 1 μM GST-DIS3-WA was mixed with 1 μM HIS-ROP2 and analyzed as above. HIS-ROP2 was detected with a rabbit polyclonal antibody. Protein concentrations were determined using the Bradford assay. Protein amino acid sequences were aligned using ClustalW. In ClustalW, the gap-opening and gap-extension penalties were set at 0.20 and 10, respectively, and the alignments were refined manually. Trichome branch lengths were measured using scanning electron microscopy images and images captured using a Nikon Coolpix 4500 digital camera (Tokyo, Japan) mounted on a Leica SMZ 12.5 stereo microscope (Wetzlar, Germany) fitted with a 1.6× 1.2 NA objective. Measurements of trichome shape parameters were taken from at least 10 different trichomes using ImageJ software version 1.3 (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij). For branch length measurement, trichomes with three visible branches that were approximately parallel to the image plane were selected. The epidermal cells of distorted group mutants are desiccation sensitive. We therefore used cryo-fixed samples and scanning electron microscopy to visualize gaps between adjacent cells. Pavement cell gaps were also visualized using reflected light from epi-illumunated seedlings that were mounted on a Nikon E800 Eclipse microscope and visualized using a Nikon 50X LU 0.55 NA metallurgical lens. For this method, shoots were removed, and the hypocotyl was immediately mounted in a blob of pure Vaseline on a glass slide. Images were captured on a SPOT RT CCD camera (Diagnotics, Sterling Heights, MI). To measure the cell–cell gap frequency in 12-DAG cotyledons, 540 × 390-μm boxes were overlaid onto three nonoverlapping regions of a scanning electron microscopy image taken from the apical third of the cotyledon. The mean gaps/mm2 within the three boxes was calculated for each cotyledon, and the reported gap frequency for each gentoype is the mean gaps/mm2 of three different measurements. For the etiolated hypocotyl elongation assay, wild-type and mutant seeds were sown onto the surface of half-strength MS in square plates. After 2 to 3 d of cold treatment and 12 h of light exposure, plates were wrapped with double layers of aluminum foil and placed vertically in a growth chamber at 22°C. Total hypocotyl length was measured after 7 d. The length of the cells in the middle region of the hypocotyls was measured from differential interference contrast images. Fresh weight measurements were taken from wild-type and mutant plants in segregating populations. Seedlings were selected based on synchronous germination, but independent of phenotype at 3 DAG, and were harvested for fresh weight determination at 16 DAG. PCR products were generated from genomic DNA isolated from the mutant plants. PCR primer pairs included the following: DIS3-F1/DIS3-R11, DIS3-F3/DIS3-R9, DIS3-F5/DIS3-R7, DIS3-F7/DIS3-R5, DIS3-F9/DIS3-R3, and DIS3-F11/DIS3-R1. The PCR products were sequenced using 13 forward primers (DIS3-F1 to DIS3-F13) and 13 reverse primers (DIS3-R1 to DIS3-R13; see Table 4). DNA sequencing was done using Bigdye version 3.1 (PE Biosystems, Foster City, CA), and unincorporated nucleotides were removed with a Centriflex TM gel filtration cartridge (Edge Biosystems, Gaithersburg, MD). Sequencing reactions were analyzed at the Purdue Genomics Center. For DNA gel blots, DNA extractions were performed using the CTAB (N-cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromide) method. Six micrograms of each sample were separated on a 0.9% agarose gel and blotted onto a positively charged nylon membrane (Nytron transfer membranes; Midwest Scientific, Valley Park, MO). The DNA probe was labeled using DIG High Prime DNA labeling and detection starter kit II (Roche, Penzberg, Germany). Hybridization was performed overnight at 42°C in a hybridization incubator (Robbins Scientific model 400; Sunnyvale, CA). Washes were performed twice at 65°C in 2× SSC (0.3 M NaCl and 0.03 M sodium citrate) with 0.1% SDS for 15 min, followed by two washes in 0.2× SSC with 0.1% SDS for 15 min. Signal was visualized using chemiluminescence detection. Total RNA for RT-PCR was isolated using the RNeasy plant mini kit from Qiagen (Chatsworth, CA). All RNA extractions and RT-PCR analyses were repeated at least two times. Two micrograms of total RNA was treated with five units of RQ1 RNase-free DNase (Promega, Madison, WI). For first-strand cDNA synthesis reactions, 25 μL of total RNA was annealed with random hexanucleotides (20 ng/μL) (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA) and then reverse transcribed with 200 units of M-MLV RT (Invitrogen). Thereafter, 1/25 volume of the cDNA was used as a template for PCR. To analyze the expression of different DIS3 alleles, we isolated RNA from 15-DAG seedlings. Actin filaments polymerized in vitro were observed by epi-fluorescence illumination under a Nikon Microphot SA microscope equipped with a 60×, 1.4 NA Planapo objective and digital images were collected with a Hamamatsu ORCA-ER 12-bit CCD camera (Osaka, Japan). Confocal images were collected using an MRC Bio-Rad 2100 laser scanning confocal microscope (Hercules, CA) mounted on a Nikon Eclipse E800 microscope with a Nikon 60× 1.2 NA Planapo water immersion objective. Images were processed and analyzed using MetaMorph 6.0 (Universal Imaging, Downingtown, PA) or ImageJ (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij) software. Tissues were fixed in 2% formaldehyde in 100 mM Pipes-KOH, 5 mM EGTA, and 4 mM MgCl2, pH 6.9 (PEM), for 30 min. After two washes with PEM, the tissues were incubated in PEM containing 1% glycerol and 0.198 μM Alexa Fluor 488 phalloidin (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) overnight at 4°C. For live cell imaging, intact GFP:ABD2 (CITATION) or GFP:MBD (CITATION) expressing 10- to 14-DAG seedlings were transferred to 2- to 3-mm deep chambered slides and submerged in water. GFP was excited using a 488-nm argon-ion laser line and ∼300 μW of laser power at the sample and a 515 ± 30-nm band-pass filter. Images were collected at 500 lines/s with two or three iterations of Kahlman averaging. Seedlings were scanned for appropriately staged cells for up to 30 min before they were discarded and a new sample was made. The methods for the quantification of the relative amounts of core cytoplasmic actin filaments in phallodin labeled cells and GFP:ABD2 lines were as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Briefly, the relative amounts of core cytoplasmic actin filaments to total actin filaments were measured at the midpoint ± 1.3 μm of stage 3/4 and stage 4/5 branches. The cortical domain of the branch was defined as a 2.5-μm-wide band that included the plasma membrane at the outer edge. Core cytoplasm was the excluded inner cytoplasmic volume. Total is defined as cortical + core. Stage 3/4 branches were defined as those that had lengths between 10 and 15 μm. Stage 4/5 branches were defined as those that had branches between 16 and 50 μm in length. To ensure that late stage dis3 cells with a reduced branch length were not included in the analyses, no cells with a total vertical height of more than 40 μm were included in the measurements. For microtubule quantitation, a branch having a majority of microtubules at an approximate angle of 90° relative to the long axis was defined as transverse. A branch having a majority of microtubules with angles <45° from the long axis of the branch was defined as oblique or longitudinal. Actin was purified from rabbit skeletal muscle. Oligomers and minor actin binding protein contaminants were removed by gel filtration chromatography on Sephacryl S-300 (CITATION) and the resulting monomeric actin stored in Buffer G (1× is 5 mM Tris, pH 8.0, 0.2 mM ATP, 0.1 mM CaCl2, 0.5 mM DTT, and 0.1 mM NaN3) at 4°C. Pyrene derivatization of G-actin on Cys374 was performed as modified by CITATION. Assembly of actin (5% pyrene labeled) was monitored with a PTI Quantamaster spectrofluorimeter (QM-2000-SE; Photon Technology International, South Brunswick, NJ) with excitation and emission wavelengths of 365 and 407 nm, respectively. Actin nucleation assays were performed essentially as described by CITATION. Arp2/3 was purchased from Cytoskeleton (Denver, CO). Two activators of Arp2/3 were compared. The WA domains of human N-WASP (GST-WASP-WA) and DIS3/SCAR2 (GST-DIS3-WA) were purified by affinity chromatography on glutathione agarose (the original GST-N-WASP-VCA expression plasmid [CITATION] was kindly provided by Marie-France Carlier). To test the ability of WASP-WA and DIS3-WA to activate vertebrate Arp2/3 complex, we measured their effect on the initial phase of actin polymerization. Monomeric actin was converted to MgATP-G-actin by addition of 0.2 mM EGTA and 50 μM MgCl2 and stored on ice. Reactions (150 μL) in KMEI (1× contains 50 mM KCl, 1 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EGTA, and 10 mM imidazole-HCl, pH 7.0) included 50 nM Arp2/3 complex and varying amounts of GST-WASP-WA or GST-DIS3-WA, as described in the figure legend. Polymerization was initiated by the addition of G-actin to a final concentration of 4 μM (5% pyrene labeled) and fluorescence monitored for at least 600 s. The concentration of barbed ends [N] generated during the nucleation reaction was calculated according to the equation [N] = elongation rate/(k+[A]), where k+ is the association rate constant for the barbed end at pH 7.0 (11.6 μM−1 s−1), [N] is the concentration of barbed ends, and [A] is the concentration of actin monomers (CITATION). The elongation rate was taken from the slope of the assembly curves at half maximal polymerization. Individual actin filaments labeled with fluorescent phalloidin were imaged by fluorescence microscopy according to CITATION. Actin at 4 μM alone, or with 50 nM Arp2/3 and/or 100 nM activator (GST-WASP-WA or DIS3-WA), was polymerized in 50 mM KCl, 1 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EGTA, 0.2 mM ATP, 0.2 mM CaCl2, 0.5 mM DTT, 3 mM NaN3, and 10 mM imidazole, pH 7.0, at 25°C for 30 min and labeled with an equimolar amount of rhodamine-phalloidin (Sigma-Aldrich) during polymerization. The polymerized F-actin was diluted to 10 nM in fluorescence buffer containing 10 mM imidazole, pH 7.0, 50 mM KCl, 1 mM MgCl2, 100 mM DTT, 100 μg/mL of glucose oxidase, 15 mg/mL of glucose, 20 μg/mL of catalase, and 0.5% methylcellulose. A dilute sample of 3 μL was applied to a 22 × 22-mm cover slip coated with poly-l-Lys (0.01%). The amino acid sequences of SHD, basic, and WA domains from Arabidopsis thaliana have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under the following accession numbers: DIS3/SCAR2 (GenBank accession number AY817016), ABIL1 (AT2G46225, GenBank accession number AY17012), ABIL2 (AT3G49290, GenBank accession number AY17013), ABIL3 (AT5G24310, GenBank accession number AY17014), ABIL4 (AT5G42030, GenBank accession number AY17015), and Hs-Abi-1 (GenBank accession number AAN28379).
