!~ABS~! Plant photoreceptors that regulate photomorphogenic development include red/far-red-light–absorbing phytochromes and blue/UV-A-light–absorbing cryptochromes. We have undertaken a genetic screen to identify additional components downstream of the photoreceptors in Arabidopsis thaliana. We identified a short hypocotyl mutant under red and blue light, hypersensitive to red and blue 1 (hrb1). Mutation in HRB1 also enhances the end-of-day far-red light response, inhibits leaf expansion and petiole elongation, and attenuates the expression of CAB3 and CHS. Double mutant analysis indicates that phyB is epistatic to hrb1 under red light, and cry1 cry2 is epistatic to hrb1 under blue light for both hypocotyl growth and light-regulated gene expression responses. HRB1 localizes to the nucleus and belongs to a protein family of Drought induced 19 (Di19). HRB1 and all other family members contain a ZZ-type zinc finger domain, which in other organisms is implicated in protein–protein interactions between dystrophin and calmodulin and between transcriptional adaptors and activators. HRB1 activity is also required for red and blue light–induced expression of PHYTOCHROME INTERACTING FACTOR 4 (PIF4). pif4 shows a very similar hypersensitive response as hrb1 to both red light and blue light and is epistatic to hrb1 in control of light-regulated gene expression responses. Thus, the roles of HRB1 and PIF4 together in regulating both red and blue light responses may represent points where red light signaling and blue light signaling intersect.
!~RES~! To isolate new light signaling mutants, we screened a collection of 40,000 Wisconsin lines and a collection of 30,000 SALK lines containing T-DNA insertions (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center) for a short hypocotyl phenotype under red light. Of six short mutants isolated, two had a phenotype under red light, three had a phenotype under both red and blue light, and one had a phenotype under red, far-red, and blue light. One of the red light mutants is a pif3 allele. The three red/blue light mutants fall into different complementation groups, one of which is characterized here both at the genetic and molecular levels. Based on a hypersensitive hypocotyl phenotype under red and blue light, we named the newly identified mutant hrb1 (for hypersensitive to red and blue 1) (Figure 1). Examined over a range of red light intensities, hrb1 exhibited a hypersensitive response to very low intensity of red light, and the response approached saturation at a much lower intensity of red light than that of the Wassilewskija (Ws) wild type (Figure 1B, left). By comparison, hrb1 responded in a hypersensitive manner to both weak and strong blue light. The responses of both Ws and hrb1 were not saturated over the range of the blue light intensities tested (Figure 1B, right). [[FIGURE]] We also examined if hrb1 had other aberrant light responses (Figure 2). In an end-of-day far-red light (EODFR) experiment, a pulse of saturating far-red light was given to seedlings grown under 8-h red light before being returned to a 16-h period of darkness. A pulse of saturating far-red light converts a large proportion of phyB molecule from its active Pfr form to its inactive Pr form and thus relieves the strong inhibition of hypocotyl elongation by red light (CITATION; CITATION). As a result, red light–grown Ws wild-type seedlings have a longer hypocotyl after receiving an EODFR treatment (Figure 2A). Each individual measurement for hrb1 was paired with another individual measurement for Ws in either R-EODFR or R+EODFR group, and their ratios were calculated. Compared with R-EODFR, hrb1 exhibits a much longer hypocotyl relative to the Ws wild type after an EODFR treatment under such a red light/dark cycle (Figure 2A). These data suggest a role of HRB1 in regulating phyB-mediated red light responses. [[FIGURE]] phyB-9, a loss-of-function PHYB mutant, has smaller cotyledons and leaves but longer petioles under white light. Similar to phyB-9, hrb1 developed smaller cotyledons or leaves than the Ws wild type, measured 5 and 17 d, respectively, after germination, under white light in soil (Figures 2B to 2D). When seedling growth was further examined under red, far-red, and blue light on agar plates, hrb1 showed a reduced cotyledon size only under red and blue light but not under far-red light (Figure 2B). In contrast with the long petiole phenotype of phyB-9, hrb1 had a shorter petiole than the Ws wild type when measured 17 d after germination under white light in soil (Figures 2C and 2D). To further examine the effects of hrb1 mutation on red and blue light responses, we studied the expression of CAB3, a gene encoding a chlorophyll a/b binding protein, and CHS, a gene encoding an enzyme involved in anthocyanin biosynthesis (Figure 3). On our autoradiogram, the expression of CAB3 and CHS in Ws wild type was induced by a 4-h treatment with red, far-red, and blue light (Figure 3A). Compared with the Ws wild type, the expression of CAB3 in hrb1 showed a 2.5-fold reduction under blue light, and the expression of CHS in hrb1 showed 2.0- and 3.0-fold reduction, respectively, under red and blue light (Figure 3B). An insignificant change of CAB3 and CHS expression in hrb1 under far-red light further indicates a specific involvement of HRB1 in regulating red and blue light responses (Figures 3A and 3B). Experiments using a 2- or 6-h light induction over a range of light intensities failed to reveal any other significant changes compared with the studies using the current experimental regime (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] We also examined the expression of various light signaling genes in Ws and hrb1 using RT-PCR and detected a change in the expression of PIF4, a gene encoding a phyB interacting protein and a negative regulator of phyB signaling. We further verified the expression of PIF4 in Ws and hrb1 using RNA gel blot analysis (Figure 3A). As shown previously, the expression of PIF4 in Ws was induced by red and far-red light (CITATION) and was also induced by blue light (Figure 3A). Compared with that of Ws, the red light–induced expression of PIF4 in hrb1 was reduced 2.6-fold, and the blue light–induced expression of PIF4 in hrb1 was reduced 2.1-fold (Figure 3B). Thus, HRB1 activity is required for the proper expression of PIF4 under both red and blue light. PIF4 has been previously demonstrated to negatively regulate phyB signaling through a direct interaction with phyB (CITATION). Interestingly, the loss-of-function pif4 has a very similar hypocotyl growth response as hrb1 to red light but not to far-red light, and the response of pif4 to blue light remains to be determined (CITATION). We therefore examined the hypocotyl growth responses of Ws, hrb1, pif4, and hrb1 pif4 to blue light in addition to red and far-red light at a relatively broad range of light intensities. Similar to hrb1, pif4 showed a hypersensitive response to both red and blue light but not to far-red light (Figure 4A). The hrb1 pif4 double mutant exhibited a similar, but not an additive, phenotype under red and blue light as hrb1 or pif4 single mutant, suggesting that HRB1 and PIF4 may function closely in the same signaling branch. [[FIGURE]] We also examined the expression of CAB3 and CHS in hrb1, pif4, and hrb1 pif4 double mutant (Figures 4B and 4C). Compared with the Ws wild type, hrb1 showed a 2.4-fold reduction in the expression of CAB3 only under blue light, but pif4 showed a 3.1-fold reduction in the expression of CAB3 under both red and blue light (Figure 4B). The expression of CHS was greatly affected in pif4 than in hrb1 under both red and blue light (Figure 4B). We also examined the expression of XTR7, which encodes a xyloglucan endotransglycosylase and is likely involved in cell wall polymer hydrolysis and cell wall extension. The expression of XTR7 was downregulated by red and far-red light, as shown previously (CITATION), and also by blue light in this study (Figure 4B). No dramatic change was detected for the light downregulation of XTR7 expression in either hrb1 or pif4 (Figure 4C). However, the expression levels of XTR7 in darkness were reduced by mutation in either HRB1 or PIF4. In all cases examined, the hrb1 pif4 double mutant behaved similarly to the pif4 single mutant; therefore, pif4 is epistatic to hrb1 in the control of light-regulated gene expression responses. To determine if the T-DNA insertion is linked to the hrb1 short hypocotyl phenotype, we crossed hrb1 to Ws wild type and scored the segregation of the kanamycin maker in the F2 progeny. The kanamycin gene on the T-DNA segregated at a ratio of three resistant siblings versus one sensitive sibling (64:19) in the F2 population. This segregation ratio indicates that hrb1 has a single T-DNA locus. When grown on nonselective medium, 25% of the progeny exhibited a short hypocotyl phenotype, suggesting that hrb1 is recessive to the wild-type allele. The seedlings scored for short or long hypocotyl were then transferred to kanamycin medium. All seedlings with a short hypocotyl, but not all of the ones with a long hypocotyl (30 resistant versus 12 sensitive), were able to survive on kanamycin medium. Data thus suggest a tight linkage of T-DNA insertion with the short hypocotyl phenotype of hrb1. We used a GenomeWalker kit (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) to clone the mutated HRB1 gene. With primers derived from the T-DNA left and right borders, we identified the plant sequences adjacent to the T-DNA borders in chromosome V. The sequences are included in TAC clone K21P3 (Figure 5A). Hybridization of a DNA gel blot with a probe derived from the plant sequences further revealed a size polymorphism associated with the T-DNA insertion (Figure 5B). A full-length cDNA (accession number At5g49230 or AF372963) was subsequently identified as the putative HRB1 cDNA. Comparison of the cDNA sequence with the corresponding genomic sequence revealed five exons and four introns in the putative HRB1 gene. The T-DNA is inserted in the first exon of HRB1 gene. The nucleotide position for the ATG start codon of HRB1 gene is 38,531 in TAC clone K21P3. The T-DNA insertion caused an 81-bp deletion of the plant sequence between nucleotide 38,580 (adjacent to the right border) and 38,499 (adjacent to the left border). As a result, the HRB1 message was undetectable by both RNA gel blot and RT-PCR analysis (Figure 5C, top and middle). We then cloned a 3.8-kb genomic fragment, spanning from 1.6 kb upstream to 0.6 kb downstream of the HRB1 coding sequence, into binary vector pKF111 (CITATION) and transformed the construct into hrb1. The introduced genomic fragment fully complemented hrb1, conferring a phenotype resembling that of the wild type under both red and blue light (Figures 5D and 5E). [[FIGURE]] HRB1 encodes a polypeptide of 211 amino acids and belongs to the Drought induced 19 (Di19) protein family (Figure 6B). This protein family has no obvious similarity to any protein with a known function in the database and includes six Arabidopsis proteins (gi 13937216, gi 2191171, gi 671440, gi 18377875, gi 469110, and gi 3912926), two rice proteins (gi 14719312 and gi 15289975), and one cotton protein (gi 25992529). Di19 has been found to be strongly expressed in both roots and leaves of Arabidopsis during sustained drought conditions (CITATION). After searching the database further, we identified a ZZ-type zinc finger motif homologous to proteins from mouse and human within HRB1 protein sequence (Figure 6A; CITATION; CITATION). The Cys-x2-Cys motifs in ZZ domains are reminiscent of the Cys-x2-Cys knuckles that occur in zinc fingers (CITATION). Unlike most other zinc fingers, the ZZ-type zinc finger identified in HRB1, its mouse and human orthologs, and dystrophin contain only four of the six conserved residues. The remaining two Cys residues are replaced by His residues (Figure 6A). The ZZ-type zinc finger motif also appears to be conserved in all Di19-like proteins (Figure 6B). [[FIGURE]] Examination of the HRB1 protein sequence with the PSORT program also identified a putative nuclear localization sequence and a Robbins and Dingwall nuclear targeting consensus sequence (Figure 6B; CITATION). The putative nuclear localization sequence is of the SV40 large antigen type and contains four basic amino acid residues. The Robbins and Dingwall sequence consists of two basic residues, a 10-residue spacer, and another basic region in which at least three residues out of five residues are basic. Using an in vivo transient expression system, we found that HRB1:green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein was localized to the nucleus in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells under either dark or light conditions (Figure 7A, top). Staining with 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole verified that the spots with the strong green fluorescence correspond to the locations of the nuclei (Figure 7A, bottom). By contrast, cells transformed with GFP alone showed green fluorescence in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus. [[FIGURE]] We next examined HRB1 expression under various monochromatic light conditions through RNA gel blot analysis (Figure 7B). HRB1 mRNA abundance is detected by an HRB1 coding sequence probe, and the same blot was also probed with ribosome RNA. After a normalization of HRB1 mRNA abundance to rRNA signal, we found that the expression of HRB1 was induced 3.1-fold by red light, 2.6-fold by far-red light, and 2.3-fold by blue light over the dark expression level (Figure 7B). The red and far-red-light–induced expression of HRB1 was largely diminished in the phyB-9 or phyA-211 mutant (Figures 7C and 7D). Apparently, phyB is the major photoreceptor mediating the red light–induced expression of HRB1 among all red light–sensing phytochromes, phyB to phyE. However, the blue light–induced expression of HRB1 was only partially reduced in each single cry mutant, cry1 or cry2, but largely diminished in the cry1 cry2 double mutant. Therefore, cry1 and cry2 may have redundant function in mediating the blue light–induced expression of HRB1. Although HRB1 negatively regulates red and blue light signaling for the inhibition of hypocotyl elongation response, red and blue light enhance the expression of HRB1. A similar pattern of function and expression regulation has also been observed for PIF4 (CITATION). To examine how HRB1 functions with respect to the photoreceptors phyB and crys, we generated hrb1 phyB-9, hrb1 cry1, and hrb1 cry2 double mutants and an hrb1 cry1 cry2 triple mutant. The loss-of-function phyB-9 mutant has a long hypocotyl phenotype under red light, whereas hrb1 exhibits a short hypocotyl phenotype under red light. Under two different intensities of red light, different lines of the hrb1 phyB-9 double mutant showed a similar long hypocotyl phenotype (Figures 8A and 8C). Thus, phyB-9 is epistatic to hrb1 based on their genetic interaction, and the observed epistasis likely reflects a dependence of hrb1 phenotype on phyB. The slightly longer hypocotyl of the hrb1 phyB-9 double mutant than the phyB-9 single mutant under red light may be due to a hybrid vigor. We therefore included Ws × Landsberg erecta (Ler) wild type and Ws × Columbia (Col) wild types to control the difference in hypocotyl growth between crosses of different ecotypes. Under blue light, phyB-9 has a hypocotyl elongation response indistinguishable from that of the Col wild type, and the hrb1 phyB-9 double mutant exhibits a similar hypocotyl phenotype as the hrb1 single mutant (Figure 8B). [[FIGURE]] Under blue light, both cry1 and cry2 exhibit a long hypocotyl phenotype, although cry2 has a less severe phenotype. By contrast, hrb1 has a short hypocotyl phenotype under blue light. In both the hrb1 cry1 and the hrb1 cry2 double mutants, cry1 or cry2 is partially epistatic to hrb1 because the long hypocotyl phenotype of cry1 or cry2 is partially suppressed by the hrb1 mutation under blue light (Figure 8B). However, the cry1 cry2 double mutant is fully epistatic to hrb1, and such epistasis may suggest that the expression of the hrb1 phenotype under blue light is dependent on both cry1 and cry2 molecules (Figure 8D). Under red light, we noticed that cry1 had a slightly longer hypocotyl than its wild type Ler, but cry1 does not function to perceive red light (Figure 8A). The hrb1 cry1 double mutant had a hypocotyl phenotype resembling that of the hrb1 single mutant under red light, indicating that the red light phenotype of the hrb1 cry1 double mutant is unlinked to the cry1 mutation. Under red light, cry2 had a similar hypocotyl elongation response compared with the Col wild type, whereas the hrb1 cry2 double mutant exhibited a short hypocotyl phenotype as observed in the hrb1 single mutant (Figure 8A). The long hypocotyl phenotype of phyB-9 was also dominant under white light in the hrb1 phyB-9 double mutant, and the hrb1 mutation also strongly suppressed the long hypocotyl phenotype of cry1 under white light (Figure 8B). Both phyB and cry1 do have a long hypocotyl phenotype under white light, and the blue component in white light is apparently unable to suppress the long hypocotyl phenotype of phyB-9 through the action of wild type crys. Similarly, the red component in white light also fails to suppress the long hypocotyl phenotype of cry1 through the action of wild-type phyB molecules. Therefore, the detected epistasis of hrb1 with phyB or cry1 under white light is similar to the one-on-one interaction of hrb1 with phyB or cry1 under respective monochromatic red or blue light. The genetic interaction between HRB1 and phyB or cry was also studied by examining the expression of CAB3, CHS, and PIF4 in the phyB or cry single mutant and the phyB-9 hrb1 and cry hrb1 double or triple mutants (Figure 9). The red light–induced expression of CAB3, CHS, and PIF4 was greatly affected by the phyB-9 mutation and was also affected in the phyB-9 hrb1 double mutant in a way very similar to the phyB-9 single mutant (Figure 9). Therefore, phyB-9 is epistatic to hrb1 not only for hypocotyl elongation response but also for light-regulated gene expression response (Figures 8 and 9). A strong argument can be made for the expression of CAB3 under red light, which was affected in both the phyB-9 single mutant and the phyB-9 hrb1 double mutant, but was not affected in the hrb1 single mutant (Figures 3 and 9). By contrast, the blue light–induced expression of CAB3, CHS, and PIF4 was only partially impaired in either cry1 or cry2 single mutant, much affected in cry1 hrb1 and cry2 hrb1 double mutants, and greatly diminished in the cry1 cry2 double mutant (Figure 9). The expression of CAB3, CHS, and PIF4 in the hrb1 cry1 cry2 triple mutant was very similar to that in the cry1 cry2 double mutant, indicating an epistasis of cry1 cry2 to hrb1 (Figures 10A and 10B). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The hrb1 mutant was isolated from a T-DNA insertion population in the Ws background (40,000 lines donated by University of Wisconsin, Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center). Genetic screens and subsequent characterization of hrb1 were conducted in GM growth medium minus sucrose. Monochromatic red, far-red, or blue light were generated with an LED SNAP-LITE (Quantum Devices, Barnereld, WI). Light intensity and peak wavelength were measured with a SPEC-UV/PAR spectroradiometer (Apogee Instruments, Logan, UT). Hypocotyl, cotyledon, and leaf images were taken using an Olympus digital Camedia C-700 (Tokyo, Japan), and their length and area were measured using NIH image (public domain; Bethesda, MD). Petiole length and leaf area were measured for the first fully expanded true leaf. Genomic DNA was isolated from white light–grown plants using the DNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). Plant DNA sequence flanking the T-DNA left border sequence was obtained with a GenomeWalker kit (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA). The left T-DNA border primers used were JL202 (5′-CATTTTATAATAACGCTGCGGACATCTAC-3′) and JL270 (5′-TTTCTCCATATTGACCATCATACTCATTG-3′). Total RNA was isolated from plants grown under various light conditions using the SV total RNA isolation system (Promega, Madison, WI). DNA gel blot analysis, RNA gel blot analysis, and RT-PCR analysis were performed as described (CITATION). A 3.8-kb genomic fragment, spanning 1.6 kb upstream to 0.6 kb downstream of the HRB1 coding sequence, was cloned into binary vector pKF111 (CITATION). The fragment was generated using PCR from TAC clone K21P3 (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center) and contains end-incorporated ClaI and XhoI restriction sites. Transformation of the construct into hrb1 and selection of the transgenic plants were performed as described previously (CITATION). The putative nuclear localization sequence and Robbins and Dingwall nuclear targeting consensus sequence were identified using the PSORT program (http://psort.nibb.ac.jp). For the transient assay on HRB1 subcellular localization, the HRB1 coding sequence containing XbaI and XmaI restriction sites was PCR-generated and cloned into a modified PBI121 vector, in which the β-glucuronidase coding sequence was replaced with a GFP coding sequence. Transformation of HRB1:GFP into onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells and 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining were performed as described previously (CITATION). GFP fluorescence and nuclear images were acquired using a Nikon Eclipse E800 microscope (Tokyo, Japan) with a Cool Cam color CCD camera (Cool Camera, Decatur, GA) and Imago Pro Plus version 3.0 software (Media Cybermetics, Silver Spring, MD). The hrb1 pif4 double mutant was generated by genetic cross. Both hrb1 and pif4 are in the Ws background and contain a T-DNA insertion in their coding regions (CITATION). Homozygous hrb1 or pif4 mutation was genotyped using PCR at F2 or F3 generation. The phyB-9 (Col), hy4-1 (cry1, Ler), and cry2-1 (Col) mutants were obtained from the Arabidopsis Stock Center and were used to generate hrb1 phyB-9, hrb1 cry1, and hrb1 cry2 double mutants. phyB-9 is an ethyl methanesulfonate mutant, whereas both hy4-1 and cry2-1 contain large deletions. The homozygous phyB-9 mutation was selected at the F2 generation based on a striking long hypocotyl phenotype under red light. The homozygous cry1 or cry2 mutation was selected at the F2 generation based on a long hypocotyl phenotype under blue light but verified by PCR genotyping at the F3 generation. The homozygous hrb1 mutation was selected by a linked resistance to kanamycin from the F3 individuals in a homozygous phyB-9 or cry1 or cry2 background. Ws × Col wild type and Ws x Ler wild type were also generated to control the difference in hypocotyl growth between crosses of different ecotypes. Both phyA-211 (Arabidopsis Stock Center) and the cry1 cry2 double mutant used for gene expression analysis are in Col ecotype background. To generate hrb1 cry1 cry2 triple mutants, hrb1 cry2 (Ws Col) was crossed to cry1 cry2 (Col). The cry1 cry2 double mutant contains large deletions in both loci. The homozygous cry1 mutation was verified by PCR genotyping at the F3 generation, and homozygous hrb1 mutation was selected by a linked resistance to kanamycin from the F3 individuals in a homozygous cry1 and cry2 background. A cross of Ws Col to Col was also generated to control the difference between different ecotypes. Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession number AF372963.
