!~ABS~! Vacuolar processing enzyme (VPE) is a Cys proteinase responsible for the maturation of vacuolar proteins. Arabidopsis thaliana δVPE, which was recently found in the database, was specifically and transiently expressed in two cell layers of the seed coat (ii2 and ii3) at an early stage of seed development. At this stage, cell death accompanying cell shrinkage occurs in the ii2 layer followed by cell death in the ii3 layer. In a δVPE-deficient mutant, cell death of the two layers of the seed coat was delayed. Immunocytochemical analysis localized δVPE to electron-dense structures inside and outside the walls of seed coat cells that undergo cell death. Interestingly, δVPE in the precipitate fraction from young siliques exhibits caspase-1–like activity, which has been detected in various types of plant cell death. Our results suggest that, at the early stage of seed development, δVPE is involved in cell death of limited cell layers, the purpose of which is to form a seed coat.
!~RES~! VPEs of higher plants have previously been divided into two types: seed-type VPEs and vegetative-type VPEs. A phylogenetic tree of plant VPEs (Figure 1A) shows the existence of a third type of VPE, which includes Arabidopsis δVPE (At3g20210), tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) VPE (CAB51545), tobacco NtPB1 (CAB42650), tobacco NtPB3 (CAE84598), and rice (Oryza sativa) VPE (NP_910213). We propose that these VPEs constitute a novel type of VPE (discussed below). [[FIGURE]] To determine its function, we used a reverse genetic approach to identify an Arabidopsis mutant that is defective in the gene. We isolated two mutants, δvpe-1 and δvpe-4, in which T-DNA insertions disrupt the δVPE gene in the first exon and in the promoter region, respectively (Figure 1B). In an immunoblot analysis, specific antibodies against δVPE reacted with a 38-kD protein from wild-type siliques (Figure 1C). Siliques of the δvpe-1 and δvpe-4 mutants lacked the band (Figure 1C), indicating that the δVPE protein is absent in these mutants. An immunoblot analysis with anti-δVPE antibodies revealed that the 38-kD δVPE is specifically expressed in siliques (Figure 2A). In siliques at the walking-stick-shaped-embryo stage, δVPE was expressed in the seed coat, but not in the embryo or the pericarp (Figure 2B). The localization of δVPE is quite different from that of βVPE, which is found in the embryo (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The Arabidopsis seed coat is derived from the maternal parent and is composed of two integuments (the outer and inner integuments) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The outer integument consists of two cell layers and the inner integument consists of mostly three cell layers (ii1, ii2, and ii3) (Figure 2K). δVPE was detected in the inner integument, but not in the outer integument of early developing seeds (Figures 2C to 2H). δVPE was localized in the ii2 and ii3 layers of the inner integument, but not in the ii1 layer (Figure 2H). No immunopositive green fluorescence was detected in wild-type seeds with preimmune serum (Figure 2I) or in δvpe-1 seeds with anti-δVPE antibodies (Figure 2J). This indicates the localization of δVPE is limited to the outer two cell layers (ii2 and ii3) of the inner integument of the seed coat of developing Arabidopsis seeds. An additional 52-kD band was detected on the immunoblot of the developing seeds in the very early stage (Figure 3A, top). This band was not detected on the blot of the developing δvpe-1 seeds (Figure 3A, bottom). This indicates that the 52-kD band corresponds to a precursor of δVPE, which we have named proδVPE, and that the 38-kD band corresponds to the mature form. This result is consistent with our previous result that VPE is synthesized as an inactive proprotein, which is then processed to produce the active form (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] δVPE levels rapidly and transiently increased in the early stage of embryogenesis, reaching a maximum in the heart-shaped-embryo stage, and then slowly decreased until the full-sized-embryo stage, when storage proteins started to accumulate (Figure 3B). This suggests that δVPE functions in the early stage of seed development. In contrast with δVPE, which was expressed early and transiently, another Arabidopsis VPE, βVPE, increased during the late stage of seed development (Figure 3B). The increase of 37- and 27-kD forms of βVPE was accompanied by the accumulation of seed storage proteins, such as 12S globulins. βVPE expression was consistent with our previous result that βVPE is responsible for the maturation of seed storage proteins (CITATION). The finding that δVPE and βVPE function at different stages suggests the functional differentiation of VPEs in developing seeds: δVPE functions in the shrinkage of the seed coat, whereas βVPE functions in storage protein processing in developing cotyledons. The above results imply that δVPE functions in the formation of seed coats. Therefore, we attempted to clarify the effect of δVPE deficiency on the development of the inner integument of the seed coat. In wild-type plants, the thickness of the inner integument, in which δVPE is localized, decreased from 60 to 70 μm at the early-embryo stage (Figure 4A) to less than half this value at the walking-stick-shaped-embryo stage (Figure 4B). No reduction in the thickness of the outer integument was observed in this period (Figures 4A and 4B). Interestingly, unlike the inner integument of the wild type, the inner integument of the δVPE-deficient mutants δvpe-1 and δvpe-4 remained thick throughout embryogenesis (Figures 4C to 4F). At the early-embryo stage, the inner integument of δvpe seeds, like that of wild-type seeds, had three cell layers (Figures 4A, 4C, and 4E). In the walking-stick-shaped-embryo stage, the inner integument was compressed in the wild type (Figure 4B), but not in δvpe (Figures 4D and 4F). [[FIGURE]] We examined the possibility that the decrease of the wild-type inner integument during development is associated with programmed cell death (Figure 5). In wild-type plants, nuclei in the ii2 and ii3 cell layers, as revealed by DAPI (4′-6-diamidino-2-phenylindole) staining, are clearly visible at the globular embryo stage (Figures 5A to 5C) but disappear at the heart-shaped embryo stage (Figures 5D to 5F). This result is consistent with the developmental aspects of wild-type seeds as shown in Figures 4A and 4B and indicates that the cells of the ii2 and ii3 layers of developing wild-type seeds are programmed to die. On the contrary, the nuclei were detected in developing δvpe-1 seeds with heart-shaped, torpedo-shaped, and even full-sized embryos (Figures 5G to 5R). This result is consistent with the developmental aspects of δvpe seeds as shown in Figures 4C to 4F and shows that the cells of ii2 and ii3 layers in δvpe-1 seeds are still alive. These results suggest that δVPE is involved in cell death. Therefore, δVPE deficiency prevents the degradation of nuclei of the ii2 and ii3 cell layers. [[FIGURE]] Figures 6A to 6D show the cytological changes in the inner integuments of developing wild-type seeds at the torpedo-shaped-embryo stages. At first, cells in the ii2 layer started shrinkage and plasmolysis (Figure 6A). The plasma membrane and tonoplast are partially disrupted (indicated by an asterisk in Figure 6A). At this stage, cells in the ii1 and ii3 layers remained in their normal shape. Then, the plasma membrane and tonoplast of the cells in the ii2 layer disappeared (Figure 6B). At this stage, disrupted organelles and cellular materials from the dead cells formed large aggregates. Cell layers that had lost their contents were compressed, resulting in folded cell walls (Figures 6C and 6D). Subsequently, cells in the ii3 layer started to shrink, so that the ii3 layer became compressed like the ii2 layer (data not shown). The final seed coat consisted of a one-cell-layer inner integument (ii1) and a one-cell-layer outer integument (data not shown). The cells of the ii1 layer were filled with large, electron-dense compartments (Figures 6A, 6C, and 6D). The cells of the ii2 and ii3 layers had no such subcellular feature, although they each had a developed central vacuole. The sequential shrinkage of two cell layers in the inner integument is summarized in Figure 6G. [[FIGURE]] On the other hand, cell shrinkage and plasmolysis did not occur in ii2 and ii3 cell layers of developing δvpe-1 seeds at the torpedo-shaped-embryo stages, and the plasma membrane and tonoplast were intact (Figures 6E and 6F). This result is consistent with the results in Figures 4 and 5 and indicates that δVPE-deficiency prevents the sequential shrinkage of the ii2 and ii3 layers. After cell shrinkage, small electron-dense structures appeared in the space between the plasma membrane and the cell wall (Figure 6A, indicated by arrowheads) and in the extracellular space (Figure 6B, indicated by an asterisk) in the ii2 and ii3 cell layers of the inner integument. Immunofluorescence indicating the localization of δVPE was detected in granules that are distributed in the peripheral region of the cells (Figure 7A). Immunogold particles were detected on electron-dense structures in the space between the plasma membrane and the cell wall (Figure 7B, indicated by arrowheads) and in the extracellular space (Figures 7B and 7C, indicated by asterisks). A control experiment with preimmune serum showed no gold particles in the electron-dense structures (data not shown). Therefore, the electron-dense structures correspond to the granules detected on the immunofluorescence micrograph. These results indicate that δVPE is localized in the electron-dense structures, which appear after cell shrinkage (Figures 6A and 6B), in the ii2 and ii3 cell layers. The electron-dense structures were also observed in δvpe-1 seeds (Figure 7D). This suggests that the structures are aggregates composed of δVPE and other proteins. [[FIGURE]] Our observations implied that δVPE plays some role in the disappearance of the ii2 and ii3 cell layers of the inner integuments. This raises the question whether δVPE exhibits proteolytic activity in the electron-dense structures. We attempted to isolate the electron-dense structures. Homogenized young siliques were separated into two fractions by centrifugation, the supernatant and pellet fractions. An immunoblot analysis of each fraction with anti-δVPE antibodies showed that δVPE was present in the pellet fraction but not in the supernatant fraction (Figure 7E). This suggests that δVPE aggregates to form the electron-dense structures in the inner integument. No activity toward Z-AAN-MCA was detected in the siliques of the VPE-null mutant in which all four VPE genes are disrupted (αvpe-1 βvpe-3 γvpe-1 δvpe-1), indicating that VPEs are responsible for the activity detected in the wild-type siliques. δvpe-1 siliques had ∼24% of the VPE activity in wild-type siliques, suggesting that δVPE is responsible for ∼76% of the activity, and the other VPEs are responsible for ∼24% of the activity. When homogenized siliques were separated into the pellet fraction and supernatant fraction, ∼70% of the activity was in the pellet, and ∼30% of the activity was in the supernatant (Figure 7E). Considering no δVPE in the supernatant (Figure 7E, immunoblot), the VPE activity in the pellet might be derived from δVPE, and the activity in the supernatant might be derived from other VPEs in siliques. These findings suggest that the proteinase activity that was observed in the electron-dense aggregates was due to δVPE. Evidence from extensive studies (discussed below) indicates that caspase activity is also involved in various types of plant programmed cell death. Our recent data show that vegetative-type VPEs of tobacco exhibit caspase-1–like activity and are involved in hypersensitive cell death (CITATION). We examined the effects of various proteinase inhibitors on the activity of VPE. Figure 8A shows that the VPE activity was strongly inhibited by biotin-YVAD-fmk (a caspase-1 inhibitor) and also by Ac-DEVD-fmk, as is mammalian caspase-1 (CITATION). None of pepstatin A (an aspartic proteinase inhibitor), E-64 (a papain-type Cys proteinase inhibitor), or AEBSF (a Ser proteinase inhibitor) had any effect on VPE activity. The result implied that δVPE has caspase-1–like activity. [[FIGURE]] To detect the protein responsible for the caspase-1–like activity, we developed a biotinylated inhibitor blot analysis with an irreversible caspase-1 inhibitor, biotin-YVAD-fmk (Figure 8B). In this analysis, an enzyme that conjugates with the inhibitor becomes visible on the blot with streptavidin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase. Three major bands of 38, 35, and 30 kD were detected on the blot of the extract from developing wild-type seeds with a torpedo-shaped embryo (Figure 8B, lane 1). We examined the competitive effects of various inhibitors on in vitro formation of the enzyme inhibitor complex with extracts from seeds (Figure 8B, lanes 2 to 6). When 0.2 or 1.0 mM Ac-YVAD-CHO was added as a competitor with biotin-YVAD-fmk, the 38-kD band completely disappeared on the blot, but the 35- and 30-kD bands did not disappear (Figure 8B, lanes 5 and 6). This result indicates that the protein that has caspase-1–like activity is a 38-kD protein and that the other two bands are nonspecific. The 38-kD band is consistent with the molecular mass of δVPE (Figure 8C). This suggests that the caspase-1–like activity is due to δVPE. To examine this possibility, an extract from wild-type or δvpe-1 developing seeds with a torpedo-shaped embryo was subjected to a biotinylated inhibitor blot analysis (Figure 8D) and an immunoblot analysis (Figure 8E). In the biotinylated inhibitor blot analysis, as in the immunoblot analysis, a 38-kD band was detected in the extract from wild-type seeds, but not in the extract from δvpe-1 seeds. These results indicate that the 38-kD protein is δVPE and that δVPE is an authentic proteinase exhibiting caspase-1–like activity that appears in association with the cell death of the inner integument.
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia [Col-0]) were surface sterilized with 95% ethanol and then sown onto 0.8% agar in MS medium (Wako, Tokyo, Japan). After a 4-d incubation at 4°C to break seed dormancy, the seeds were germinated and grown at 22°C under continuous light (100 μE s−1 m−2) for 21 d. The seedlings were transferred onto vermiculite for subsequent growth. We used two T-DNA insertion mutants of Arabidopsis. δvpe-1 was isolated from a large population of Arabidopsis plants provided by the Kazusa DNA Institute (Chiba, Japan) by PCR-based screening. We used the following primers: δVPE-kFW, 5′-TCATGCAAGGTGCTTATGTGTGA-3′; δVPE-kRV, 5′-CGTCCGTACCGTACAGTTGGTA-3′; P06RB, 5′-TTCCCTTAATTCTCCGCTCATGATC-3′ for the T-DNA right border. δvpe-4 (SALK_009856) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Columbus, OH). Insertion mutant information was obtained from the SALK Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory Web site (http://signal.salk.edu). These mutants have a Columbia background. We crossed the triple mutant (αvpe-1 βvpe-3 γvpe-1; CITATION) and the single mutant δvpe-1 with each other and isolated a VPE-null mutant (αvpe-1 βvpe-3 γvpe-1 δvpe-1). The cDNA of Arabidopsis δVPE (AV555212) was donated by the Kazusa DNA Research Institute (CITATION). A PCR-amplified DNA fragment encoding the putative mature region (amino acids 40 to 407) of δVPE was inserted into the pET32a vector (Novagen, Madison, WI). A fusion protein with a His-tag was synthesized in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) cells and purified on a Ni2+ column. The purified protein (1 mg) in 1 mL of 50 mM Na-phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, and 6.4 M urea was emulsified with an equal volume of Freund's complete adjuvant. The emulsion was injected subcutaneously into a rabbit. After 3 weeks, three booster injections with incomplete adjuvant were given at intervals of 7 d. One week after the final booster injection, blood was drawn and antibody was prepared. The antibodies exhibited strong specificity for δVPE-related proteins (Figure 4) and were of a titer sufficiently high to detect δVPE-related proteins (data not shown). The siliques and other organs of Arabidopsis were homogenized in 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, and 2% (w/v) SDS before centrifugation to collect soluble proteins. The proteins were subjected to SDS-PAGE and were transferred electrophoretically to a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane (0.22 μm; Nihon Millipore, Tokyo, Japan). The membrane was incubated with anti-δVPE antibodies (diluted 5000-fold) in TBS-T (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 0.15 M NaCl, 0.05% [v/v] Tween 20) after blocking with 5% (w/v) skim milk in TBS-T. Horseradish peroxidase–conjugated donkey antibodies directed against rabbit IgG (diluted 1:5000; Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Tokyo, Japan) were used as the secondary antibodies. The δVPE-related proteins were visualized with an enhanced chemiluminescence kit (ECL system; Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). We also used antibodies directed against βVPE (CITATION). The developing seeds of Arabidopsis that had walking-stick-shaped embryos were fixed for 40 min in 7.2% (w/v) formaldehyde, 0.1% (v/v) Nonidet P-40, 10% (v/v) dimethyl sulfoxide, and 50 mM Na-phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, washed twice with TBS-T for 5 min, incubated in TBS-T containing 5% (w/v) Cellulase Onozuka R-10 (Yakult, Tokyo, Japan) and 2% (w/v) Pectolyase Y-23 (kikkoman, Tokyo, Japan) for 20 min at 30°C, washed twice with TBS-T, incubated in blocking buffer (2% [w/v] BSA and TBS-T) for 30 min, incubated with anti-δVPE antibodies (diluted 500-fold) in the blocking buffer for 40 min, washed three times for 5 min each, incubated for 1 h with goat anti-rabbit IgG antibodies conjugated with Alexa Fluor 488 (absorbance, 495 nm; emission, 519 nm; Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR), washed three times for 5 min with TBS-T, and mounted. The developing seeds with torpedo-shaped embryos were vacuum infiltrated for 1 h with a fixative that consisted of 4% paraformaldehyde, 1% glutaraldehyde, and 0.06 M sucrose in 0.05 M cacodylate buffer, pH 7.4. The tissues were cut into slices of <1 mm in thickness with a razor blade and treated for another 2 h with freshly prepared fixative. Procedures for ultrastructural studies were essentially the same as described previously (CITATION). Immunogold labeling procedures were essentially the same as described previously (CITATION), except for the use of anti-δVPE antibodies. Postfixation was omitted for immunoelectron microscopy. The samples were dehydrated in a graded dimethylformamide series at −20°C and embedded in London Resin White (London Resin Co., Basingstoke, Hampshire, UK). Blocks were polymerized under a UV lamp at a Reichert ultramicrotome (Leica, Heidelberg, Germany). The ultrathin sections were incubated with 1% (w/v) BSA in PBS for 1 h at room temperature and then incubated with anti-δVPE antibodies (diluted 1:5000) in blocking solution overnight at 4°C. The sections were washed with PBS and then incubated for 30 min at room temperature with a solution of protein A-gold (10 or 15 nm; Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) that had been diluted 1:30 in the blocking solution. The sections were washed with distilled water and then were stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate. After staining, all sections were examined with a transmission electron microscope (model 1200EX; JEOL, Tokyo, Japan) at 80 kV. The young wild-type or δvpe-1 siliques were fixed for 40 min in 7.2% (w/v) formaldehyde, 0.1% (v/v) Nonidet P-40, 10% (v/v) dimethyl sulfoxide, and 50 mM Na-phosphate buffer, pH 7.2. The fixed tissues were dehydrated through a series of ethanol solutions (50, 50, 60, 70, 85, 100, and 100%) for 30 min each, infiltrated with a t-butyl alcohol/Paraplast Plus (Oxford Labware, St. Louis, MO) mixture and then embedded in Paraplast. Thin sections (7-μm thick) were cut on a microtome (RM2155; Leica) and mounted on slides. The samples were dried overnight at 40°C and incubated in xylene to remove Paraplast from the tissue sections. The sections were washed in 100% ethanol twice and stained by 1 μg/mL DAPI in methanol for 30 min. We used fluorogenic substrates conjugated with α-(4-methyl-coumaryl-7-amide) (MCA; Peptide Institute, Osaka, Japan): Z-AAN-MCA (VPE-specific substrates). Arabidopsis siliques frozen in liquid nitrogen were ground using a mortar and pestle and were homogenized with 50 mM Na-acetate buffer, pH 5.5, containing 50 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, and 100 mM DTT. We used the whole extract as enzyme solution. Alternatively, the soluble and insoluble fractions were obtained by centrifugation at 15,000g for 5 min. The insoluble fraction was resuspended with the same buffer. The reaction was started by adding each fluorogenic substrate (to a final concentration of 500 μM) to the homogenate, and an increase in the fluorescence of the 100-μL reaction mixture was measured at 465 nm with a fluorescence spectrophotometer (GENios; Tecan, Tokyo, Japan). The inhibitors used were as follows: 0.1 mM pepstatin A, 0.1 mM E-64, 1 mM 4-(2-aminoethyl)-benzenesulfonyl fluoride, 20 to 100 μM biotin-YVAD-fmk, and 20 to 100 μM biotin-DEVD-fmk. We used the extract from developing seeds with torpedo-shaped embryo. For a biotinylated inhibitor blot analysis, the sample solutions were preincubated with or without each inhibitor as described above and incubated in 100 mM Na-acetate, pH 5.5, containing 100 mM DTT with a final concentration of 20 μM biotin-YVAD-fluoromethylketone (biotin-YVAD-fmk; Calbiochem, San Diego, CA) for 60 min. The resulting complex of enzyme and biotin-YVAD-fmk was subjected to SDS-PAGE and transferred to a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane. The membrane was treated with a blocking solution and then with streptavidin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase (diluted, 2000-fold; Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) for 30 min. Detection was performed with an enhanced chemiluminescence kit (ECL system).
