!~ABS~! Tandem affinity purification (TAP) strategies constitute an efficient approach for protein complex purification from many different organisms. However, the application of such strategies for purifying endogenous Arabidopsis multi-protein complexes has not yet been reported. Here, we describe an alternative TAP (TAPa) system that successfully allows protein complex purification from Arabidopsis. In our newly generated TAPa tag we have replaced the tobacco etch virus (TEV) protease cleavage site with the more specific and low-temperature active rhinovirus 3C protease site. In addition, the second purification step can now be performed through two different affinity tags: a six His repeat or nine copies of a myc repeat. To examine our purification procedure we generated a C-terminal fusion between the TAPa tag and CSN3, a component of the multi-protein COP9 signalosome (CSN) complex. Subsequent analysis showed that CSN3-TAPa could rescue a csn3 mutant, and that the components of the CSN complex could be co-purified with CSN3-TAPa. As part of our long running interest in light signaling in Arabidopsis we have generated Arabidopsis transgenic lines harboring, both N-terminal and C-terminal TAPa fusions of many different light signaling pathway regulators. Molecular characterization of these transgenic lines showed fusion expression in 88% of the genes analyzed and that this expression is largely independent of the fusion orientation. Mutant complementation analysis showed that most of the TAPa fusions analyzed retained function of the wild-type proteins. Taken together, the data demonstrate the suitability of the TAPa system to allow efficient multi-protein complex isolation from stably transformed Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! 
!~MM~! The pC-TAPa plasmid was made as follows. The pYL44 plasmid (CITATION) was digested with HindIII and EcoRI and a DNA fragment containing a duplicated CaMV 35S promoter (2×35S) and a Nos terminator (Nos ter) was recovered and cloned into the pPZP222 plasmid (CITATION) to generate the pYL400 plasmid. The pYL434 was obtained by replacing the 3xflag DNA fragment of pYTV (CITATION) with a HindIII/AvrII-digested PCR product containing nine repeats of the myc epitope (9xmyc). A PCR product containing a TMV U1 Ω sequence, a GATEWAY cloning cassette (attR1::Cmr::ccdB::attR2; GATEWAY, Invitrogen), a six His repeat (6xHis), the 9xmyc, a 3C protease cleavage site and two copies of the IgG binding domain (2xIgG-BD) was obtained using pYL434 as a template and the following primers; OYL646, 5′-ccggtctagagtatttttacaacaattaccaacaacaacaaacaacaaacaacattacaattactatttacaattacaagtttgtacaaaaaagctga-3′ and OYL647, 5′-ggggtacctcgagacgtcctctaggatcagcgggtttgggtca-3′. This PCR product was digested using StuI and KpnI and cloned into the pYL400 plasmid to generate the pC-TAPa construct (also named as pYL436, pPTV and pYL TAP Ct). Sequence analysis of each DNA fragment cloned was performed after every cloning step. The pN-TAPa plasmid was made as follows. PCR products were obtained using the pC-TAPa plasmid as a template and cloned sucessively into the pBluescript SK+ phagemid in the following order. The DNA fragment corresponding to the 2 × 35S::TMV U1 Ω sequence was amplified using the primers 5′-agttgggatccgccagggttttcccagtcacg-3′ and 5′-ttttgatcgatcttgtaattgtaaatagtaattgtaatg-3′ and cloned using BamHI and ClaI. The DNA fragment corresponding to the 2xIgG-BD-3C sequence was amplified using the primers 5′-gagctatcgatggccaccatggcgcaacacgaagaagccgtag-3′ and 5′-ttttgaattcgggcccctggaacagaacttccagtaccgagctcaaattcgcgtctac-3′ and cloned using ClaI and EcoRI. The DNA fragment corresponding to the 6xHis-9xmyc sequence was amplified using the primers 5′-aaaagaattccatcaccatcaccatcacgcgggccgctctagaactagtgg-3′ and 5′-ttttttctcgagcccgggggatccactagtgg-3′ and cloned using EcoRI and XhoI. A DNA fragment corresponding to the attR1::CmR::ccdB::attR2 sequence was amplified using the primers 5′-tatttctcgagaacaagtttgtacaaaaaagctgaacg-3′ and 5′-tttttggtaccttaaaccactttgtacaagaaagctg-3′ and cloned using XhoI and KpnI. The whole N-TAPa expression cassette was obtained by digesting with HindIII and KpnI and cloning into the pYL400 plasmid to obtain the pN-TAPa construct (previously named as pYL TAP Nt). Sequence analysis of each DNA fragment cloned was performed after every cloning step. The pN-TAPa cloning site is not in-frame with the two lysine codons (AAA–AAA) in the upstream attR1 sequence; it is 2 bp misplaced (CAA–AAA–AGC). Prior to cloning into the pC-TAPa and pN-TAPa plasmids, the genes analyzed in this study were PCR-amplified using attB sequence containing primers and cloned into the pDONR 201 plasmid using the BP reaction (GATEWAY; Invitrogen). At this stage, DNA sequence analysis was performed. The transfer of genes from the pDONR 201 plasmid to the corresponding TAPa vector was performed using LR reaction (GATEWAY; Invitrogen). Arabidopsis thaliana plants used in this study were of the Columbia-0 ecotype unless otherwise stated. The cry2-1 (CITATION), phyA-301 (CITATION), spa1–3 (RLD ecotype; CITATION), cop1–6 (CITATION), hy5–215 (CITATION) and hyh (Wassilewskija ecotype; CITATION) mutants have been previously described. The csn3–1 mutant described in this study corresponds to a T-DNA insertion line from the Salk collection (Salk_000593, CITATION). Seeds were surface-sterilized, placed on MS plates (Gibco, Cleveland, OH, USA) containing 0.3% sucrose and cold-treated for 3 days. Vernalized seeds were exposed to white light for 12 h and then transferred to continuous light conditions. Depending on each transgenic line, different light conditions were used to check mutant complementation: CRY2, HY5 and HYH TAPa lines were grown for 4 days in cB light (5 μmol m−2 sec−1). PHYA and HY5 TAPa lines were grown for 4 days in cFR light (125 μmol m−2 sec−1). HY5 TAPa lines were grown for 4 days in cR light (200 μmol m−2 sec−1); TAPa-COP1 lines were grown for 4 days in continuous darkness. CSN3-TAPa lines were grown for 12 days in continuous white light (110 μmol m−2 sec−1). To obtain adult plants, 7–9-day-old light-grown seedlings were transferred to soil and grown in standard long day (16 h light/ 8 h dark) growth room. All TAPa constructs were transformed into plants by the floral dip method (CITATION). Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains GV3101 and C58C1 were used in the transformation process. Hypocotyl length of plants, grown as described above, was measured in order to perform the mutant complementation analysis. In the case of cFR light-grown TAPa-HY5 plants, anthocyanin concentration was analyzed as previously described (CITATION). Arabidopsis tissues were homogenized in an extraction buffer containing 50 mm Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 10% glycerol, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, 1 mm DTT, 1 mm PMSF, and 1x complete protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche, Indianapolis, IN, USA). Protein extracts were centrifuged twice at 4°C for 10 min each, and protein concentration in the supernatant determined by Bradford assay (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). Protein samples were boiled in sample buffer, run on SDS-PAGE gels (7.5, 10, 12, or 17.5%) and blotted onto polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) membranes (Millipore, Bedford, MA, USA). The blots were probed with different primary antibodies. To confirm the presence of a fusion doublet in TAPa-HY5 lines, protein extracts were boiled in 8 m urea sample buffer prior to SDS-PAGE. For gel filtration assays, protein extract (200 μg) from CSN3-TAPa seedlings in a heterozygous csn3 mutant background was injected on a Superose 6 column (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ, USA). Twenty-four fractions of 0.5 ml were collected. Proteins on each fraction were concentrated using STRATARESIN (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA), run on 10% SDS-PAGE gel and blotted using the α-CNS3 antibody (CITATION). Other primary antibodies used in this study include α-myc monoclonal antibody (CITATION), α-CUL1 (CITATION), α-HY5 (CITATION), α-CSN1 (CITATION), α-CSN4 (CITATION), α-CSN5 (CITATION), α-CSN6 (CITATION), α-CSN7 (CITATION), and α-CSN8 (CITATION). CSN3-TAPa and TAPa-GFP seedlings (15 g, fresh weight) grown in complete media for 18 days under continuous white light conditions were ground in liquid nitrogen, thawed in 2 volumes of extraction buffer (50 mm Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 10% glycerol, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, 1 mm PMSF, and 1x complete protease inhibitor cocktail; Roche), filtered through four layers of cheesecloth, and centrifuged at 12 000 g for 10 min at 4°C. The protein concentration in the supernatant was determined by Bradford assay (Bio-Rad). Extracts containing similar amounts of total protein were incubated with 500 μl IgG beads (Amersham Biosciences) for 2 h at 4°C with gentle rotation. After centrifugation at 150 g for 3 min at 4°C, the IgG beads were recovered and washed three times with 10 ml of washing buffer (50 mm Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 10% glycerol, 0.1% Nonidet P-40) and once with 10 ml of cleavage buffer (50 mm Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 10% glycerol, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, 1 mm DTT). Elution from the IgG beads was performed by incubation with 50 μl (100 units) of 3C protease (Prescission protease; Amersham Biosciences) in 5 ml of cleavage buffer at 4°C with gentle rotation. Supernatants were recovered after centrifugation at 150 g for 3 min at 4°C and stored. The IgG beads were washed with 5 ml of washing buffer and centrifuged again. Supernatants were recovered and the eluates pooled. Pooled eluates were loaded into 1 ml of Ni-NTA resin (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA) packed into a 10-ml disposable polyprep chromatography column (Bio-Rad). Flow throughs were loaded again into the Ni-NTA column. After washing the column with 30 ml of washing buffer, elution was performed using 5 ml of imidazole containing buffer (50 mm Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 10% glycerol, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, 0.05 m imidazole). All the steps in the purification procedure were carried out at 4°C. Proteins in each fraction (except total plant extracts) were concentrated using STRATARESIN (Stratagene) and separated on a 12% SDS-PAGE gel. Protein bands were visualized, independently, by immunoblotting using the α-myc antibody and by silver staining. For large-scale TAPa purification, six CSN3-TAPa plant samples (15 g, fresh weight each) were processed in parallel as described above. Final eluates were pooled, proteins were precipitated using STRATARESIN and separated on a 12% SDS-PAGE gel. Protein bands were visualized by Coomassie brilliant blue staining. TAPa-purified protein bands corresponding to CSN1 and CSN8 were excised from SDS-PAGE gel and subjected to mass spectrometry analysis as described below. The protein bands were cut in small pieces and washed successively at room temperature with 250 μl 50% H2O/50% CH3CN for 5 min, with 250 μl 50% CH3CN/50 mm NH4HCO3 for 30 min and with 250 μl 50% CH3CN/10 mm NH4HCO3 for 30 min. Gel pieces were completely dried using a SpeedVac. Trypsin digestion was performed by incubation of samples with 0.1 μg modified trypsin (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) per 15 mm3 of gel in 15 μl 10 mm NH4HCO3 for 24 h at 37°C. Samples were dissolved in 60 μl 0.05% TFA, 5% CH3CN prior to mass spectrometry analysis. Protein digests were analyzed using LC/MS/MS on a Q-Tof API mass spectrometer (Waters/Micromass, Milford, MA, USA). Ten microliters of sample was directly injected onto a 100 μm × 150 mm Atlantis column running at 500 nl min−1. An 85-min gradient was used in order to obtain good peptide separation. Buffer A consisted of 98% water, 2% CH3CN, 0.1% acetic acid, and 0.01% TFA. Buffer B contained 80% CH3CN, 20% water, 0.09% acetic acid, and 0.01% TFA. Data-dependent acquisition was performed so that the mass spectrometer switched automatically from MS to MS/MS modes when the total ion current increased above the 1.5 counts sec−1 threshold set point. In order to obtain good fragmentation, a collision energy ramp was set for the different mass sizes and charge states, giving preference to doubly and triply charged species for fragmentation over singly charged species. All MS/MS outputs were processed using the mascot algorithm (CITATION) for un-interpreted MS/MS spectra after using the mascot Distiller program (Matrix Science Ltd, London, UK) to generate mascot compatible files. The mascot Distiller program combines sequential MS/MS scans from profile data that have the same precursor ion. Using the mascot database search algorithm, proteins were considered as identified when mascot listed them as significant and more than two peptides matched the same protein. The database searched was the National Center for Biotechnology Information non-redundant database. The parameters used for searching were as follows: partial methionine oxidation and acrylamide-modified cysteine, a peptide tolerance of ±0.6 Da, MS/MS fragment tolerance of ±0.4 Da, and peptide charges of +2 or +3.
