!~ABS~! Environmental light information such as quality, intensity, and duration in red (∼660 nm) and far-red (∼730 nm) wavelengths is perceived by phytochrome photoreceptors in plants, critically influencing almost all developmental strategies from germination to flowering. Phytochromes interconvert between red light-absorbing Pr and biologically functional far-red light-absorbing Pfr forms. To ensure optimal photoresponses in plants, the flux of light signal from Pfr-phytochromes should be tightly controlled. Phytochromes are phosphorylated at specific serine residues. We found that a type 5 protein phosphatase (PAPP5) specifically dephosphorylates biologically active Pfr-phytochromes and enhances phytochrome-mediated photoresponses. Depending on the specific serine residues dephosphorylated by PAPP5, phytochrome stability and affinity for a downstream signal transducer, NDPK2, were enhanced. Thus, phytochrome photoreceptors have developed an elaborate biochemical tuning mechanism for modulating the flux of light signal, employing variable phosphorylation states controlled by phosphorylation and PAPP5-mediated dephosphorylation as a mean to control phytochrome stability and affinity for downstream transducers.
!~RES~! PAPP5 was identified by yeast two-hybrid screening of phytochrome-interacting proteins, employing the full-length Arabidopsis phytochrome A (phyA) as a “bait.” Among 78 positive cDNA clones, the deduced amino acid sequence of one cDNA clone showed significant similarity to the type 5 serine/threonine protein phosphatases and was designated PAPP5 (Phytochrome-Associated Protein Phosphatase 5). The interaction between PAPP5 and Arabidopsis phyA was confirmed by reciprocally using each molecule as the “bait” and as the “prey” in a yeast two-hybrid assay (CITATIONA). The interaction between PAPP5 and Arabidopsis phyA was further confirmed by in vitro binding assay (CITATIONB). Arabidopsis has five phytochromes (phyA–phyE) that are classified into two groups (CITATION): photo-labile type I (phyA) and photo-stable type II (phyB–phyE). While PAPP5 was initially isolated as a phyA-interacting protein, it also bound to Arabidopsis phyB, a representative member of type II phytochromes, in an in vitro binding assay (CITATIONB). The region in Arabidopsis phyA that is responsible for binding to PAPP5 was mapped within the C-terminal 253 amino acids (CITATION). A test for functional importance of phytochrome-interacting proteins is to determine their relative binding affinity for the two photoconvertible forms of phytochromes, Pr and Pfr (CITATION). We employed a native oat phyA preparation (CITATION) for this test since the photoconvertible holoprotein is prepared facilely from dark-grown oat seedlings and is known to interact with several Arabidopsis photo-signaling components in vitro (CITATION). Moreover, oat phyA is biologically active as a photoreceptor in transgenic Arabidopsis (CITATION). As shown in CITATIONC, oat phyA treated with an R light pulse (Rp), which converts Pr-oat phyA to the Pfr form, showed increasing binding to PAPP5 in a time-dependent manner. A subsequent FR light pulse treatment (Rp/FRp), which converts the Pfr form to the Pr form, resulted in approximately 40% less binding. In comparison, treatment of the same sample with a following R light pulse (Rp/FRp/Rp), which converts Pr-oat phyA to the Pfr form, resulted in recovery of binding affinity of PAPP5 to oat phyA. These results show that binding of PAPP5 to oat phyA is differential for the two different spectral forms with a preferential binding to the biologically active Pfr form. The deduced amino acid sequence of the PAPP5 gene has two distinctively noticeable domains, the N-terminal domain containing the three tetratricopeptide repeats (TPRs) and the C-terminal domain containing the highly conserved signature motifs of a type 2A serine/threonine protein phosphatase (PP2Ac) (CITATIONA). This domain structure is a characteristic feature of members of the type 5 serine/threonine protein phosphatase (PP5) subfamily (CITATION). The amino acid sequence of PAPP5 also shows high similarity to other known PP5s (CITATION). The TPR motifs of the PP5 subfamily are known to form a bundle of antiparallel, amphipathic α helices to mediate protein-protein interactions (CITATION). We thus investigated if the TPR domain of PAPP5 mediates the interaction of PAPP5 with phytochromes. As shown in CITATIONB, the TPR domain alone is both necessary and sufficient for interaction with phytochromes. The interaction with phytochromes is specific for the TPR domain of PAPP5; SPINDLY (SPY), which is involved in gibberellic acid signaling in plants (CITATION), bears 10 TPR motifs in its N terminus but did not interact with Arabidopsis phyA (CITATIONA). We further confirmed the enzymatic properties of PAPP5 as a PP5, utilizing the glutathione S-transferase (GST)-fused recombinant PAPP5 (GST-PAPP5). In the presence of 100 μM arachidonic acid (AA), GST-PAPP5 exhibited a phosphatase activity with the usual Michaelis-Menten kinetics with a Km value of 160 mM pNPP and a Vmax values of 22 μmol Pi released/min/mg of protein (CITATIONC). A distinguishing enzymatic characteristic of PP5s is their activation by polyunsaturated long-chain fatty acids such as AA (CITATION). In mammalian PP5s, phosphatase activity is autoinhibited by the N-terminal TPR domain, and allosteric conformational change induced by AA binding to the TPR domain relieves this inhibition. The phosphatase activity of the GST-PAPP5 was stimulated by AA in a concentration-dependent manner (CITATIOND). The TPR domain of PAPP5 autoinhibited the phosphatase activity of PAPP5; the PP2Ac domain alone, which lacks the TPR domain, exhibited AA-independent phosphatase activity at a level comparable to that of the full-length PAPP5 in the presence of AA (CITATIONE). On the other hand, the phosphatase activity of PP5s derived from a C-terminal PP2Ac domain is known to be inhibited by okadaic acid (OA) (CITATION). The phosphatase activity of recombinant PAPP5 was also inhibited by OA with an IC50 value of 5 nM (data not shown). Taken together, these results show that PAPP5 is a member of the PP5 subfamily of protein phosphatases. Phytochromes are phosphoproteins and physically interact with PAPP5. We thus tested if phosphorylated phytochromes are substrates of PAPP5 phosphatase activity, utilizing a native oat phyA preparation. Oat phyA was effectively phosphorylated in this preparation without addition of exogenous protein kinases (CITATION), the Pfr form being slightly more phosphorylated (CITATIONF). The phosphorylated Pfr-oat phyA was effectively dephosphorylated upon incubation with PAPP5. In contrast, Pr-oat phyA was only slightly dephosphorylated by PAPP5. The results show that phytochromes are substrates for PAPP5 phosphatase activity and that the phosphatase activity is rather specific to the Pfr form of phytochromes. The specificity of PAPP5 phosphatase activity toward the Pfr form is likely due, at least partly, to preferential binding of PAPP5 to the Pfr form (CITATIONC). The PP2Ac domain alone showed lower phosphatase activity toward Pfr-phytochromes than full-length PAPP5. Since phytochrome binding to PAPP5 is mediated by the TPR domain of PAPP5 (CITATIONB), this finding suggests that recruitment of phytochromes to PAPP5 through the TPR domain is necessary for their effective dephosphorylation. For PAPP5 to function as a phosphatase for phytochromes in vivo, subcellular localization of PAPP5 should be at least partly coincided with phytochromes. We thus examined intracellular localization of PAPP5 and phytochromes by coexpressing cyan fluorescent protein (CFP)-tagged PAPP5 (PAPP5-CFP) and yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-tagged phyB (phyB-YFP) in etiolated mustard seedlings. As reported previously, phyB-YFP was mainly localized in the cytoplasm in darkness and was translocated into the nucleus in light (CITATION). The subcellular localization of PAPP5-CFP followed that of phyB-YFP, being localized in the cytoplasm in darkness and in the nucleus in light (CITATIONA). In the nucleus, some of the phyB-YFP formed distinctive nuclear speckles (CITATIONA); the nucleoplasmic speckles of phytochromes observed in our experimental condition appear to be the late nuclear speckles (CITATION) since they are stable over 4 hr (data not shown). In addition, some of the nuclear PAPP5-CFP was also found as speckled form throughout the nucleoplasm (CITATIONA). Analysis of the fluorescence images of phyB-YFP and PAPP5-CFP showed that some portions of the two images are detected in the same nuclear space, especially in the speckled regions. The results indicated that at least a certain fraction of the two proteins are colocalized in the nucleus (CITATIONA). This is supported by confocal image analyses (CITATION), in which the confocal fluorescence images from the two proteins were simultaneously detected in some of the nuclear speckles. Interestingly, when PAPP5-CFP alone was expressed in etiolated mustard seedlings, fluorescence was observed in both cytoplasm and nucleus regardless of the light conditions (CITATION). Furthermore, in this case, we did not observe formation of the nuclear speckles. This result suggests that light-dependent nuclear localization and nuclear speckle formation of PAPP5 observed upon coexpression of PAPP5-CFP and phyB-YFP (CITATIONA and CITATION) depended on the presence of phyB, supporting that PAPP5 interacts with phyB in vivo. We further examined an in vivo physical interaction between PAPP5 and phytochromes by conducting in vivo pull-down assay. For this purpose, we transiently expressed a hemagglutinin (HA)-tagged PAPP5 (PAPP5-HA) or PP2Ac (PP2Ac-HA) in mesophyll cell protoplasts of the PBG-5 transgenic Arabidopsis (CITATION) that overexpresses a biologically active and GFP-fused phyB (phyB-GFP). When the whole lysate of the protoplast cells was coimmunoprecipitated with the monoclonal anti-GFP antibody (αmGFP), PAPP5-HA but not PP2Ac-HA was pulled down together with phyB-GFP (CITATIONB). This result shows that PAPP5 is physically associated with phytochromes in vivo. Furthermore, R light irradiation to the protoplast cells, which converts the Pr form of phyB-GFP to the Pfr conformer, significantly increased the amount of PAPP5-HA coimmunoprecipitated with phyB-GFP. In contrast, in darkness or upon FR light irradiation followed by R light irradiation, where the Pr form of phyB-GFP is prevalent, a lower level of coimmunoprecipitated PAPP5-HA was detected (CITATIONB). This result supports that in vivo interaction between PAPP5 and phyB is spectral form dependent, consistent with the spectral form-dependant interaction between PAPP5 and oat phyA observed in vitro (CITATIONC). The result also suggests that phyB-dependent nuclear localization and speckle formation of PAPP5 observed in CITATIONA may be due in part to the physical interaction between PAPP5 and phyB. The finding that phosphorylated phytochromes are substrates of PAPP5 in a spectral form-dependent manner suggested that PAPP5 should play a functional role in photosignaling. To test this idea, we analyzed various photoresponses in two Arabidopsis loss-of-function mutants, papp5-1 and papp5-2, and two transgenic Arabidopsis lines, PAPP5-OX1 and PAPP5-OX2, that overexpress the PAPP5 mRNA under the control of the constitutive CaMV35S promoter (CITATION). PAPP5 binds to both phyA and phyB as shown in CITATIONB. PhyB is responsible for the photophysiological responses to R light with a classical R/FR light reversibility. Recombinant and native preparation of phyA shows the reversible R/FR light photoconversion typical to phytochromes (CITATION; CITATIONC and CITATIONC). Physiologically, however, phyA mediates so-called high irradiance responses in FR light and very low fluence responses in a wide spectral range in an irreversible manner by a yet-uncovered mechanism, while the Pfr form of phyA is still believed to be biologically active (CITATION). Irradiation of R and FR light upregulates expression of various light-inducible genes such as CHS, CAB2, and RBCS. The extent of induction of these genes was clearly reduced and increased in the loss-of-function mutants and in the overexpressing lines, respectively, under both R and FR light irradiation (CITATIONA). The so-called end-of-day far-red (EODFR) light response (CITATION) mediated by phyB was more strongly reduced in the loss-of-function mutants (CITATIONB) than in the wild-type. Additionally, the loss-of-function mutants and the overexpressing lines exhibited a lower and a higher level of phyA-mediated anthocyanin accumulation (CITATION) in FR light, respectively (CITATIONC). Fluence-rate response curves for inhibition of hypocotyl growth (CITATION) further revealed that the loss-of-function mutants and the overexpressing lines were hyposensitive and hypersensitive, respectively, to both continuous R (Rc) and continuous FR (FRc) light (CITATION). We further examined the degree of amplification of responsiveness to R light pulses by FR light preirradiation (CITATION), which is mediated by a functional interaction between phyA and phyB. When an R light pulse was applied immediately after FR light preirradiation, the degree of inhibition of hypocotyl elongation was significantly higher and lower in the overexpressing lines (36%) and in the loss-of-function mutants (16%), respectively, than in the wild-type (24%) (CITATIOND). We also noticed that the loss-of-function mutants have a flowering time earlier than that of wild-type in a long-day condition (CITATION), which is a characteristic of phyB-defective mutants. These results show that PAPP5 positively modulates various light-dependent processes mediated by both phyA and phyB. It should be noted that the degree of modulation of the light responsiveness by PAPP5 is variable depending on light regimes. The response modulated by PAPP5 is more pronounced with pulsed light responses (CITATIONA, 4B, and 4D) than with prolonged light responses (CITATIONC and CITATION). The phosphatase activity of PAPP5 toward phytochromes in the loss-of-function mutants and the overexpressing lines is differential for the two different spectral forms (CITATIONE), in accordance with in vitro dephosphorylation assay (CITATIONF). When whole-cell extracts from the loss-of-function mutants and the overexpressing lines were assayed for phosphatase activity toward phosphorylated oat phyA, the loss-of-function mutants and the overexpressing lines exhibited decreased and increased phosphatase activity, respectively, toward the Pfr form (CITATIONE). In contrast, the phosphorylation state of the Pr form was only minimally affected. Thus, the phosphatase activity of PAPP5 toward phytochromes in these plants was positively correlated with the phytochrome-mediated photoresponsiveness. This result suggests that changes in PAPP5-mediated dephosphorylation of biologically active Pfr-phytochromes are responsible for alterations in phyA- and phyB-mediated photoresponsiveness in these plants. Since phytochrome phosphorylation was suggested to play a role in attenuating light signal (CITATION), the above results led us to the idea that control of phosphorylation status of the Pfr-phytochromes through a process coupled by phosphorylation and PAPP5-mediated dephosphorylation is a plausible molecular mechanism for fine-tuning of the light responsiveness mediated by phytochromes. How does the phosphorylation status of Pfr-phytochromes lead to control of light responsiveness of plants? Light signaling initiated by light-triggered photoconversion of phytochromes from the Pr form to the Pfr form is transmitted to the early signal transducers such as NDPK2 and PIF3 through preferential binding of these molecules to the Pfr-phytochromes (CITATION). We tested a possibility that PAPP5-mediated dephosphorylation of Pfr-phytochromes affects binding of phytochromes to NDPK2 to control the light responsiveness. When the phosphorylated Pfr-oat phyA were incubated with PAPP5, its binding affinity for NDPK2 was significantly (>6-fold) increased, whereas no noticeable effect was detected for the Pr form (CITATIONA). Addition of OA, an inhibitor of PAPP5 phosphatase activity, negated the PAPP5-mediated effect on NDPK2 binding to phytochromes (CITATIONA), indicating that PAPP5 phosphatase activity is required for the enhanced binding affinity. Furthermore, cellular extracts from the loss-of-function mutants and the PAPP5-overexpressing lines showed markedly diminished and increased binding of Pfr-oat phyA to NDPK2, respectively (CITATIONB). PAPP5 phosphatase activity was decreased and increased in the loss-of-function mutants and the overexpressing lines, respectively, as shown in CITATIONE. These observations together suggest that changes in PAPP5 phosphatase activity regulate the binding affinity of the Pfr-phytochromes for the signal transducer, NDPK2. NDPK2 activity is known to be enhanced by binding to Pfr-phytochromes to positively regulate photoresponses (CITATION). Thus, our results further suggest that the altered photoresponses observed in these plants (CITATION) are at least partly due to changes of NDPK2 activity that results from the effect of PAPP5 phosphatase activity on NDPK2 binding to Pfr-phytochromes. The function of PAPP5 in photosignaling is derived from its phosphatase activity specific to phytochromes and is not due to a nonspecific phosphatase activity. Transgenic lines that overexpress the PP2Ac domain only show no noticeable alteration in photoresponsiveness in either Rc or FRc light (CITATION). Furthermore, the PP2Ac domain peptide and the cellular extracts of PP2Ac-overexpressing lines did not significantly affect phytochromes/NDPK2 interaction (CITATIONA and 5B). These observations are correlated with the result that the PP2Ac domain alone showed lower phosphatase activity toward Pfr-phytochromes than PAPP5 (CITATIONF), although it can still efficiently dephosphorylate an artificial substrate (CITATIONE). These results thus suggest that PAPP5 positively functions in phytochrome-mediated photoresponses by enhancing NDPK2 binding to Pfr-phytochromes through its phosphatase activity that is specific to Pfr-phytochromes due to the presence of the TPR domain. The in vivo and in vitro phosphorylation sites of phytochromes have been identified; the three serine residues, Ser7, Ser17, and Ser598, are phosphorylated in oat phyA (CITATION). A recent biochemical study showed that phosphorylation of oat phyA on Ser598 in the hinge region inhibits the interaction of oat phyA with its downstream signal transducers, NDPK2 and PIF3 (CITATION). Since PAPP5 affects binding of NDPK2 to oat phyA, we tested if PAPP5 can dephosphorylate the Ser598 residue of oat phyA. For this test, we utilized recombinant wild-type oat phyA phosphorylated by protein kinase A (PKA) in vitro, which results in phosphorylation mostly on Ser17 and Ser598 (CITATION). We also utilized a deletion mutant (Δ65) of oat phyA that lacks the N-terminal 65 amino acids and thus is phosphorylated only on Ser598 by PKA (CITATION). As shown in CITATIONC, PAPP5 can clearly dephosphorylate both recombinant wild-type and Δ65 mutant oat phyA when they were in their Pfr forms. In contrast, dephosphorylation of the Pr forms in both wild-type and the Δ65 mutant oat phyA was affected minimally. Thus, PAPP5 dephosphorylates Ser598 of oat phyA in a spectral form-dependent manner. In accordance with a previous report that phosphorylation of Ser598 reduces binding of NDPK2 to oat phyA (CITATION), our results indicate that dephosphorylation of Ser598 by PAPP5 results in enhanced affinity of NDPK2 for phytochromes. Thus, we suggest that phosphorylation and the PAPP5-mediated dephosphorylation of the serine residue in the hinge region of phytochromes in a light-dependent manner provide a mechanism to attenuate and enhance, respectively, the flux of light information from the photoreceptor to downstream photoresponses by controlling phytochromes/NDPK2 binding affinity. Native oat phyA preparation is phosphorylated in vivo mostly on Ser7 in the N-terminal extension and on Ser598 in the hinge region (CITATION). Phosphorylation of Ser7 is mediated by intrinsic autophosphorylation activity of phytochromes and is spectral form independent. In contrast, Ser598 is not autophosphorylated to a significant extent and is phosphorylated mostly by yet-unknown phytochrome-associated kinase(s) in a Pfr-preferential manner in vivo (CITATION). We observed that phosphorylation degree of the Pfr form of native oat phyA preparations was only slightly higher than that of Pr form in our experimental condition (CITATIONF), showing mostly spectral form-independent phosphorylation. Thus, most of the phosphoryl group we detected in CITATIONF is on Ser7 in this experimental condition. The result that PAPP5 can dephosphorylate Pfr-oat phyA to a significantly greater extent than Pr form (CITATIONF) then indicates that PAPP5 should be able to dephosphorylate the phosphoryl group on Ser7. In addition, PAPP5 effectively dephosphorylated the Pfr-form of S598A mutant oat phyA (CITATIONC), in which Ser598 was substituted to alanine and thus mainly Ser17 is phosphorylated. Thus, PAPP5 can also dephosphorylate phospho-Ser17. These results show that PAPP5 can dephosphorylate all of the three phospho-serine residues of oat phyA. It is notable that, while phosphorylation at the N-terminal extension is spectral form independent, dephosphorylation of this region by PAPP5 is spectral form dependent. This provides a mean by which the Pfr form is biologically more active, as phosphorylation at the N-terminal extension was suggested to be involved in light signal attenuation (CITATION); by being a better substrate for PAPP5, the Pfr form overcomes the signal attenuation caused by phosphorylation at the N-terminal region. It was previously suggested that phyA in plant cells undergoes phosphorylation in the N-terminal extension to regulate the light-dependent stability of phytochromes (CITATION). Since PAPP5 can dephosphorylate the phospho-serine residues in the N-terminal region, we tested if PAPP5 can modify phytochrome stability in vivo utilizing the spectrophotometrical measurement. PhyA is most prevalent in etiolated seedlings among the five phytochromes (phyA–E) and rapidly degraded upon light treatment. When dark-grown Arabidopsis seedlings were transferred to Rc light, a loss-of-function mutant (papp5-1) showed almost no spectrophotometrically measurable phytochromes after 2 hr, showing that PAPP5 is critically necessary for phyA stability in Rc light (CITATIONA). In accordance, a PAPP5-overexpressing line (PAPP5-OX1) retained a higher amount of phytochromes after 2hr in Rc light compared to wild-type (Col-0). The PHYA transcript level was similar in dark-grown and R light-irradiated seedlings of Col-0, papp5-1, and PAPP5-OX1 (CITATIONB), suggesting that the differences in the amount of phyA were not due to differences in PHYA mRNA expression in these plants. We further examined the stability of Pfr-phyA by measuring the amount of phyA species at various time points after irradiation with an R light pulse. As shown in CITATIONC, the Pfr species of phyA persisted much longer in PAPP5-OX1 than in Col-0, showing that PAPP5 enhances stability of the Pfr species in vivo. In contrast, life span of the Pfr species in papp5-1 was shorter than that in Col-0. The results suggest that altered photoresponses observed in the loss-of-function mutants and overexpressing lines (CITATION) are at least partly due to the changes in phytochrome stability conferred by the altered PAPP5 phosphatase activity in these plants. Since the phosphorylation of Ser598 of oat phyA does not significantly affect phytochrome stability (CITATION), we suggest that the observed effect of PAPP5 on phytochrome stability in Arabidopsis is mainly due to dephosphorylation of serine residue(s) other than the residue(s) corresponding to Ser598 of oat phyA and is thus possibly due to dephosphorylation at the N-terminal extension. PP5 is a subfamily lately added to a growing protein phosphatase family and is present in various species from yeast to human (CITATION). They function in diverse cellular signaling processes such as cell cycle regulation, nuclear receptor signaling, and regulation of hormone receptors and ion channels. In this report, we have shown that a higher plant, Arabidopsis, also possesses a biologically functional PP5 that plays an important role as a regulator of phytochrome-mediated photoresponses. The results described here provide important implications for the role and regulation of the phosphorylation status of the plant photoreceptors, phytochromes. First, the phosphorylation state of phytochromes is reduced by a type 5 protein phosphatase (PAPP5) that specifically dephosphorylates the biologically active Pfr form. Second, photoresponsiveness is correlated with the phosphatase activity of PAPP5 that is a positive regulatory component in plant photosignaling. Thus, phosphorylation of Pfr-phytochromes by autophosphorylation and phytochrome-associated kinase(s) is a signal attenuation mechanism that is counteracted specifically by the phosphatase activity of PAPP5. Third, dephosphorylation of the serine residue(s) in the hinge region of Pfr-phytochromes by PAPP5 results in enhanced affinity of phytochromes for the positive signal transducer, NDPK2, which in turn is positively correlated with photoresponses. Fourth, dephosphorylation of the serine residue(s) in the N-terminal extension by PAPP5 results in enhanced stability of phytochromes in a Pfr-form preferential manner, leading to enhanced photoresponses. Light signaling through phytochromes is initiated by a conformational change of phytochromes triggered by incoming photon energy. The light information decoded by the conformational change is translated into cellular responses through the action of downstream signal transducers that constitute an intricate signaling network. Photoresponsiveness of plants to phytochrome signals is, then, regulated by how much the signal flows through the given signaling network. The results presented here provide clear evidences that photoresponsiveness in phytochrome signaling is negatively correlated with the phosphorylation state of phytochromes. Namely, dephosphorylation of the biologically active Pfr-phytochromes leads to increased flux of light signal to downstream components in the signaling cascades and to enhanced photoresponsiveness, while phosphorylation of phytochromes by autophosphorylation and phytochrome-associated kinase(s) leads to decreased flux of light signal. We thus propose a model in which the counteraction of the pair of phytochrome autophosphorylation/phytochrome-associated kinase(s) activity and Pfr form-specific phosphatase activity of PAPP5 provides a tuning mechanism that finely controls the flux of light information to downstream photoresponses (CITATION ). As reported here, this control is mediated through regulation of phytochrome stability and affinity for downstream signal transducers such as NDPK2. Although light-dependent phosphorylation also occurs in rhodopsin-mediated vision signaling in animals, neither the photoreceptor stability nor affinity for downstream transducers has been reported to be directly regulated by the phosphorylation status of the rhodopsin photoreceptor. In animals, the rhodopsin photoreceptor is phosphorylated by a separate kinase and is then capped by binding of arrestin for signal desensitization (CITATION). In plants, the phytochrome photoreceptor appears to have developed a unique signal tuning mechanism, employing variable phosphorylation states according to their ambient light condition as a mean to ensure their optimal photoperception and responses.
!~MM~! Oat (Avena sativa L.) phyA holoprotein was prepared as described (CITATION). The reaction mixture containing 1 μg of oat phyA holoprotein in 290 μl of binding buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl [pH 7.5], 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM dithiothreitol, 0.1% Tween 20) was subjected to a 5 min pulse of R light (50 μmol m−2 s−1 at 660 nm) on iced water. Ten microliters of TnT (Quick Coupled Transcription/Translation Systems; Promega, Madison, Wisconsin)-produced, 35S-labeled PAPP5 was then added to the reaction mixture under dim green safe light. The mixture was incubated at 4°C in darkness for 2 hr before treatment with a pulse of R or FR light at the intensity of 50 μmol m−2 s−1. Oat phyA/PAPP5 complex was immunoprecipitated by incubating the reaction mixture with an oat phyA antibody (oat22) attached to protein A/G-Sepharose (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Buckinghamshire, United Kingdom) at 4°C for 1 hr. The immunoprecipitated proteins were subjected to 10% SDS-PAGE. Phosphorylation reaction was performed in 50 μl kinase/phosphatase (KP) buffer (25 mM Tris-HCl [pH 7.5], 5 mM MgCl2, 20 mM Mg(CH3COO)2, 0.2 mM EDTA, 0.2 mM EGTA) containing 3 μCi of [γ-32P]ATP (PerkinElmer Life Sciences, Boston, Massachusetts) and 1 μg of oat phyA holoprotein preparation. Oat phyA in KP buffer was first subjected to a 5 min irradiation of R (50 μmol m−2 s−1) light alone or 5 min of R light followed by 5 min of FR (50 μmol m−2 s−1) light irradiation on iced water. [γ-32P]ATP was then added for phosphorylation reaction mixture, which proceeded for 30 min at 30°C in darkness. For dephosphorylation assay, 1 μg of recombinant proteins (GST, GST-PAPP5, and GST-PP2Ac) was added to the above mixture and the reaction proceeded for 1 hr at 30°C in darkness prior to addition of Tris-glycine SDS sample buffer to terminate the reaction. Whole-cell protein extract was prepared from seedlings grown for 10 days in white light as described (CITATION), except that KP buffer was used in protein extraction. A reaction mixture containing 1 mg of cellular protein extract and 1 μg of phosphorylated oat phyA in 200 μl of KP buffer was incubated for 1 hr at 30°C in darkness. Oat22 antibody bound to protein A/G-Sepharose was added to the reaction mixture to a final volume of 300 μl for immunoprecipitation. The antibody bound phyA was subjected to 10% SDS-PAGE. Images of the fluorescent reporter proteins were obtained with an Axioscope 2 plus microscope equipped with an AxioCam color camera (Zeiss, Germany) and specific fluorescent filter sets for CFP (exc. D 436/20; beam splitter 455 DCLP; em. D 480/40) and YFP (HQ 500/20; beam splitter Q 515 LP; em. HQ 535/30) (AHF Analysentechnik, Tübingen, Germany). Photographs were assembled and processed using the Photoshop 7.0 (Adobe Systems Europe, Edinburgh, United Kingdom). To visualize CFP and YFP fluorescence in the superimposed images, each fluorescence image was binarized and pseudocolored into either red (CFP) or green (YFP). The resulting red and green layers were subtracted from each other. In case of colocalization of the two images, the resulting color is yellow. Confocal analyses were performed with the confocal laser scanning microscope LSM 510 (Zeiss, Germany) as described (CITATION). Phosphorylation of oat phyA was performed as described above, except that 1 μM of unlabeled ATP was used instead of [γ-32P]ATP. One microgram of phosphorylated oat phyA was incubated with 1 μg of recombinant GST-PAPP5, GST-PP2Ac, or GST in 50 μl KP buffer for 1 hr at 30°C in the presence or absence of 100 nM OA. After adding 2 μg of recombinant NDPK2 (CITATION) to the reaction mixture, final volume was adjusted to 300 μl with KP buffer. The binding reaction was performed at 4°C for 3 hr. The oat phyA/NDPK2 complex was then immunoprecipitated with the oat22 antibody and subjected to 10% SDS-PAGE followed by electroblotting onto PVDF membranes. NDPK2 and oat phyA was detected with an anti-NDPK2 antibody (CITATION) and Coomassie brilliant blue staining, respectively. Whole-cell protein extract and phosphorylated oat phyA were prepared as described above. One μg of phosphorylated oat phyA was added in 200 μl reaction mixture containing 1 mg of cellular extracts. After incubation for 1 hr at 30°C, 2 μg of recombinant NDPK2 was added to the reaction mixture and final volume was adjusted to 300 μl with KP buffer. Immunoprecipitation of oat phyA/NDPK2 complex was performed as described above.
