!~ABS~! A two-hybrid screen with the translation initiation factor, eIF(iso)4E from Arabidopsis, identified a clone encoding a lipoxygenase type 2 [Freire, M.A., et al., 2000. Plant lipoxygenase 2 is a translation initiation factor-4E-binding protein. Plant Molecular Biology 44, 129–140], and three cDNA clones encoding the homologue of the mammalian BTF3 factor, the β subunit of the nascent polypeptide-associated complex (NAC). Here we report on the interaction between the translation initiation factor eIF(iso)4E and AtBTF3. AtBTF3 protein is able to interact with the wheat initiation factors eIF4E and eIF(iso)4E. AtBTF3 contains a sequence related to the prototypic motif found on most of the 4E-binding proteins, and competes with the translation initiation factor eIF(iso)4G for eIF4(iso)4E binding, in a two hybrid interference assay. These findings provide a molecular link between the translation initiation mechanism and the emergence of the nascent polypeptide chains.
!~RES~! A search for plant translation initiation factor eIF(iso)4E-binding proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana, using a yeast genetic interaction system based on the activation of a Lex operator, had previously yielded 45 candidate clones (CITATION). Four clones remained after selection for histidine auxotrophy, LacZ activity, reproducibility and specificity by re-transformation of the yeast reporter strain with the rescued plasmids. One of the interacting clones was a homologue of the cDNA sequence of Arabidopsis thaliana lipoxygenase 2 (AtLOX2), and its characterization has been reported in CITATION. The three other cDNA clones were highly homologous to the mammalian BTF3 factor (CITATION, accession number CAA37375), and to the Nicotiana plumbaginifolia BTF3-like transcription factor (accession number NPY09106). Among the other clones with reporter gene activation after retransformation of the yeast strain L40, there were several cDNA fragments coding for amino-terminal sequences containing the signal peptide, with at least one pair of serine residues in tandem. Some of the proteins are targeted to organelles. The most representative clones of this class code for the plastid chlorophyll a/b binding protein, the thiamine biosynthetic enzyme and the peroxisomal catalase. One of the cDNA clones with similarity to the mammalian BTF3 factor encodes the full-length predicted polypeptide AtBTF3 (accession number AJ242970). The two other clones are identical and encode a polypeptide with only the first 101 amino acids. BTF3 protein was initially discovered in HeLa cells as a Basic Transcription Factor required for RNA polymerase II activity in vitro (CITATION). However, its specific role in vivo is still unknown. Two mammalian complementary cDNAs, probably a result of alternative splicing, have been isolated. BTF3a encodes a protein with all the characteristics of purified BTF3 and stimulates transcription in vitro (CITATION). BTF3b mRNA codes for a truncated form of BTF3a, as it lacks the first 44 amino-terminal residues. The BTF3b polypeptide is transcriptionally inactive, despite its ability to bind RNA polymerase II (CITATION). In contrast to BTF3a, which controls transcription, the truncated BTF3b protein seems to be involved in translocation mechanisms. The BTF3b isoform was identified as part of the nascent polypeptide-associated complex (NAC) involved in the emergence of the protruding polypeptide from the ribosome. NAC, purified from both reticulocyte lysate and wheat-germ extract, is a stable heterodimeric complex, composed of the subunits αNAC and βNAC, which is identical to the BTF3b isoform (CITATION). The sequence alignment (CITATION A) shows that the Arabidopsis and tobacco BTF3 proteins are highly homologous (57% identical) to the mammalian BTF3 protein. However, neither Arabidopsis nor tobacco BTF3 proteins have the N-terminal extension present in the mammalian BTF3a form. Instead, the N-termini of the plant proteins coincide with that of the transcriptionally inactive mammalian BTF3b isoform. This suggests that the identified AtBTF3 protein could play a role in the emergence of the nascent polypeptides, in the same way as the mammalian BTF3b isoform. The shorter clones identified encode the first 101 amino acids of the BTF3 protein, indicating that this region should contain the sequences essential for the interaction with the eIF(iso)4E factor. Inspection of this region revealed that the AtBTF3 protein contains the sequence RLQSTLKRIG between amino acids 38 and 47, which has similarity to the conserved motif (K/R)-X-X-Y-D-R-X-F-L-(L/M) identified in proteins that bind eIF4E. An alignment of the 4E-binding motif from different proteins is shown in CITATIONB. The plant BTF3 sequence contains the most conserved amino acids found in the 4E binding motifs: residues with hydroxyl (serine), charged (arginine, lysine) and hydrophobic (isoleucine) regions. Therefore, the sequence present in the BTF3 proteins may be responsible for the interaction with eIF4E factors. The interaction between eIF(iso)4E and AtBTF3 was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation of in vitro translated proteins. The AtEIF(iso)4Ecomplete cDNA was expressed in pET-21a, fused to an N-terminal epitope (T7-tag) (CITATION). The identified AtBTF3 cDNA fragment comprising the first 101 amino acids was expressed in a pET-14b vector. The plasmids were translated using a coupled transcription–translation system and were immunoprecipitated with the monoclonal antibody to the T7 tag epitope (CITATION ). The AtBTF3 translation product was found to copurify with T7-tag labeled eIF(iso)4E when the two plasmids were transcribed and translated together (lane 4). Less AtBTF3 product was precipitated when the plasmids were translated separately, and mixed prior to immunoprecipitation (lane 6), suggesting that co-translation facilitates the interaction in vitro. Given that eIF(iso)4E interacts with eIF(iso)4G through the 4E-binding motif, the ability of the BTF3 protein to compete with eIF(iso)4G for eIF(iso)4E binding in the formation of the translation initiation complex eIF(iso)4F was investigated. The yeast strain Tat7ura3 was transformed with the plasmids pLex-wheat p86, coding for the sequence of the wheat eIF(iso)4G, pGAD-AteIF(iso)4E, and with a third plasmid, where the expression of the coding sequence of AtBTF3 was under the control of a repressible promoter on addition of methionine to the media (plasmid pMET-NLS-AtBTF3). The plate assays (CITATION ) revealed that the wheat p86-AteIF(iso)4E interaction which allows yeast growth is reduced by 50% by co-expression of wheat p86 protein, when this was used as the competitor. Similarly, the expression of AtBTF3 protein inhibits growth by 35%. This result indicates that AtBTF3 is able to interfere with eIF(iso)4G for eIF(iso)4E binding, providing strong evidence in favor of a functional interaction between AtBTF3 and eIF(iso)4E. Moreover, it suggests that BTF3 could play a role in the formation and/or turnover of the translation initiation complex eIF(iso)4F. Other yeast two hybrid assays were performed to examine whether the eIF4E-BTF3 interaction was part of a conserved mechanism in plant species. In this case, the assays were in the yeast strain Y19O, in which the reporter genes are under the control of the GAL4 promoter. pACT-AtBTF3 was transformed separately, with plasmids pGBT-wp26 and pGBT-wp28 which encode, respectively, the wheat translation factors eIF4E and eIF(iso)4E fusion proteins. Prototrophy assays (CITATION ) showed that BTF3 interacts with both wheat cap-binding proteins. Even though there was lower reporter gene activation when the assays were carried out in the strain Y190 compared to that with yeast strain L40, in which the reporter genes are under the control of the Lex A operator (see discussion). These results suggest that the interaction between eIF4Es and BTF3 is a conserved phenomenon in plants. Furthermore as BTF3b proteins from human, mouse, Drosophila and yeast share striking homology with plant BTF3 protein, it is possible that eIF4E–BTF3 interaction has a conserved functional role.
!~MM~! The construction of the plasmids pMET-NLS-wheat p86, encoding the eIF(iso)4G factor, and pLex EIF4E2, encoding Arabidopsis eIF(iso)4E have been described in CITATION. GBT-wheat p26 and GBT-wheat p28 plasmids encoding the translation initiation factors eIF4E and eIF(iso)4E from wheat were obtained from K. Browning (Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry and Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712-1104, USA). The pACT-AtBTF3 plasmids were isolated in the two-hybrid screen. In the pGAD-eIF4(iso)E, the purified insert of Arabidopsis AteIF(iso)4E cDNA from the BsAt4E2 plasmid (CITATION), cut with SalI, was ligated into the pGAD3S2X vector (derived from pGAD 1318, CITATION), cut with XhoI. For the pLex-wheat p86 construct, the EcoRI/BamHI full-length cDNA insert from pGAD 424-wheat p86 (CITATION) was ligated into the pBTM116 vector (CITATION), digested with EcoRI and BamHI. In the pLex-AtBTF3, the cDNA insert from pACT-AtBTF3 plasmid, cut with BglII, was ligated into the pBTM116 vector digested with BamHI. In the pMET-NLS-AtBTF3 construct, the cDNA insert from pLex-AtBTF3, cut with XhoI, was ligated into the pMET-NLS-416 vector (gift by Dr. J. Camonis, Institut Curie, 26 rue d'Ulm, 75231 Paris Cedex) digested with XhoI. The two-hybrid screen to identify eIF(iso)4E binding proteins from Arabidopsis has been described in CITATION. The Arabidopsis cDNA library built-in vector, pACT (CITATION), was obtained from NSF/DOE/USDA Collaborative Research Group in Plant Protein Phosphorylation through the Arabidopsis Ohio Stock Center. The yeast strain was L40 (MATα trp1-901 leu2-3, 112 his3-Δ200 ade2 LYS2::(LexAop)4 HIS3 URA3::(LexAop)8 LacZ) (CITATION) .The interaction between wheat eIF4E (expressed from plasmid pGBT-wp26) and wheat eIF(iso)4E (expressed from plasmid pGBT-wp28) with Arabidopsis BTF3 (expressed from plasmid pACT-BTF3), was using a two-hybrid system in the reporter yeast strain Y190 (MATa, ura3-52,his3-Δ200, ade 2-101,trp1-901, leu2-3, 112, gal 4Δgal80Δ, URA3::GAL-lacZ, cyhr2, LYS2::GAL-HIS3), essentially as described by CITATION. The yeast strain Tat7 ura3 (gift of Dr. R. Sternglanz, Department of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, State University of New York at Stony Brook, NY 11794-5215, USA) was used for the two-hybrid interference assay. Tat7 ura3 is essentially similar to the L40 strain described above, but carries an additional auxotrophy marker for uracil. It allows the introduction of a third plasmid expressing the competitor as a fusion protein under the control of a MET promoter. The fusion protein contains a nuclear localization sequence, allowing the protein to be targeted to the nucleus where the two-hybrid interaction takes place. Yeast cells expressing interacting fusions with the LexA DNA binding domain (from plasmid pLex-wheat p86, coding for the wheat eIF(iso)4G), and with the GAL4 activator domain (from plasmid pGAD-eIF(iso)4E), were transformed with the plasmids pMET-NLS-AtBTF3 and pMET-NLS-wheat p86. Equal aliquots were plated at low density on SD minimal medium, supplemented with adenine (40 mg/l) and lysine (30 mg/l), with or without methionine (2 mM) to, respectively, repress or activate transcription from the competitor plasmid. In plasmid pACT-AtBTF3, the cDNA insert encoding the polypeptide for the first 101 amino acids of the AtBTF3 protein is fused, in frame, with the GAL4 activator domain. The coding region was excised with Bgl II and BamHI and cloned into the expression plasmid pET-14b (Novagen) digested with BamHI, under the control of the T7 bacteriophage promoter. The Arabidopsis eIF(iso)4E cloned in pET-21a vector, fused to an N-terminal T7 epitope (CITATION), was obtained from J-F LaLiberté (INRS, Institut Armand-Frappier, 531 boulevard des Prairies, Laval, Quebec, Canada H7V 1B7). Radiolabelled [35S]-methionine proteins were produced directly from plasmids using a coupled T7 transcription–translation system, according to the manufacturer’s protocol (TNT reticulocyte system, Promega). Co-immunopurification experiments were performed using a T7 tag antibody (Novagen) as described by CITATION.
