!~ABS~! The C-terminal region of sulfate transporters from plants and animals belonging to the SLC26 family members shares a weak but significant similarity with the Bacillus sp. anti-anti-sigma protein SpoIIAA, thus defining the STAS domain (sulfate transporter and anti-sigma antagonist). The present study is a structure/function analysis of the STAS domain of SULTR1.2, an Arabidopsis thaliana sulfate transporter. A three-dimensional model of the SULTR1.2 STAS domain was built which indicated that it shares the SpoIIAA folds. Moreover, the phosphorylation site, which is necessary for SpoIIAA activity, is conserved in the SULTR1.2 STAS domain. The model was used to direct mutagenesis studies using a yeast mutant defective for sulfate transport. Truncation of the whole SULTR1.2 STAS domain resulted in the loss of sulfate transport function. Analyses of small deletions and mutations showed that the C-terminal tail of the SULTR1.2 STAS domain and particularly two cysteine residues plays an important role in sulfate transport by SULTR1.2. All the substitutions made at the putative phosphorylation site Thr-587 led to a complete loss of the sulfate transport function of SULTR1.2. The reduction or suppression of sulfate transport of the SULTR1.2 mutants in yeast was not due to an incorrect targeting to the plasma membrane. Both our three-dimensional modeling and mutational analyses strengthen the hypothesis that the SULTR1.2 STAS domain is involved in protein-protein interactions that could control sulfate transport. 
!~RES~! Three-dimensional Modeling of the STAS Domain of the Arabidopsis Sulfate Transporter SULTR1.2—The sequences of the C-terminal regions of a set of sulfate transporters from plant, animal, and yeast were compared with the prokaryotic sequences of the anti-anti-sigma factors SpoIIAA of B. subtilis (1AUZ) and Bacillus sphaericus (1H4Z) (Fig. 1A). Significant sequence similarities (35–80% of amino acid identity were found in the C-terminal regions of the plant sulfate transporters (SULTR1.1, SULTR1.2, SULTR2.1, and SULTR2.2 from Arabidopsis and ShST1 from Stylosanthes hamata). In contrast, the sequence similarities between the plant sulfate transporter C-terminal regions and the human diastrophic displasia sulfate transporter, the S. cerevisiae sulfate transporter SUL1, or the Bacillus anti-anti-sigma factors SpoIIAA were weaker (15–20% of amino acid identity. However, these low sequence similarities occurred at very specific positions (Fig. 1A), which had already been shown to define the so-called STAS domain.    [[FIGURE]] We further characterized the Arabidopsis sulfate transporter STAS domains at the secondary and tertiary structure levels by comparing these domains with the available NMR structure of B. subtilis SpoIIAA (CITATION) and the crystal structure of B. sphaericus SpoIIAA (CITATION). The dedicated meta-server @TOME available at bioserv.cbs.cnrs.fr (CITATION) was used for the fold compatibility analyses. With most queries (including those in Fig. 1A), mGenTHREADER, 3D-PSSM, and FUGUE showed highly significant threading scores (e values of 0.008, 3e–5, and Z-score of 15.9, respectively) with SpoIIAA structures. The structural analysis was further developed for the SULTR1.2 STAS domain. Various models were built using the programs TITO and MODELLER (CITATION). Assessment of these computed three-dimensional models by molecular structure and amino acid environment evaluation tools such as Verify3D, ERRAT, and PROSA, showed that the models were very good (scoring above 0.3 with Verify3D and above 70% with ERRAT; pseudo-energy was below –1.2 as computed by PROSA). These results validated the structural alignment of the SULTR1.2 STAS domain with the NMR and crystal structures of SpoIIAA, and thus, the resulting three-dimensional model specifically built for SULTR1.2 (Fig. 1).  The structural analysis revealed a compact hydrophobic core at the interface of the α-helices and the β-sheets. This hydrophobic core appeared very well conserved between the SULTR1.2 STAS domains and SpoIIAA (Fig. 1B). The structural analysis also revealed that the phosphorylation site, which is critical for SpoIIAA function (CITATION), is conserved in the SULTR1.2 STAS domain and more generally in almost all the other sulfate transporter STAS domains. This phosphorylation site consists of an aspartate (strictly conserved in all the sulfate transporter STAS domains and in SpoIIAA) followed by one or two hydroxyl-containing amino acids and a structurally preferred glycine (motif D(S/T)(2)G) (Fig. 1A). Conservation of this phosphorylation site suggests that phosphorylation is a key determinant of SULTR1.2 activity as it is for SpoIIAA.  The major difference between the modeled STAS domain and the SpoIIAA structure lies at the connection between the SULTR1.2 α1-helix and β3-sheet (Fig. 1A). At this position all the sulfate transporter STAS domains display variable lengths of amino acid insertions. This variable region lies at the periphery of the domain and is far away from the common phosphorylation region (Fig. 1B). The modeled STAS domain also differed from the SpoIIAA structure at the very C terminus. This region is highly variable in length and sequence even between the various sulfate transporters. At the end of the C-terminal α4-helix of its STAS domain, SULTR1.2 possesses a pair of cysteines (Cys-645, Cys-646) that is not strictly conserved in the paralogs and which is not present in SpoIIAA (Fig. 1A). The first cysteine (Cys-645) is fairly conserved between the Arabidopsis sulfate transporters, and it is substituted by a hydrophobic residue in the other sulfate transporters. The second cysteine (Cys-646) is specific for SULTR1.2, and it is substituted by polar amino acids in the other sulfate transporters. The putative role of these cysteines was analyzed in view of the current three-dimensional model.  In conclusion, the structural analysis and modeling strongly suggest that the SULTR1.2 C-terminal STAS domain shares the SpoIIAA fold, although it shows low overall sequence identity with SpoIIAA (∼17% over 130 residues). The structural similarity is particularly high in the vicinity of the phosphorylation site despite the change from a conserved serine in SpoIIAA to the similar amino acid threonine in SULTR1.2.  The STAS Domain Is Necessary for Sulfate Transport by SULTR1.2 in Yeast—The functional importance of the STAS domain for sulfate transport by SULTR1.2 was first checked. A SULTR1.2 mutant transporter with a large deletion of the last 131 amino acids of the protein corresponding to the entire STAS domain was constructed. This mutant transporter was expressed in the S. cerevisiae YSD1 mutant (CITATION), which is defective in its sulfate transport capacity and, thus, unable to grow in the presence of 100 μm sulfate as the sole sulfur source. Although expressing the SULTR1.2 wild-type transporter in YSD1 restored growth of YSD1 in the presence of 100 μm sulfate as the sole sulfur source, expressing the mutant transporter in YSD1 did not induce any visible growth of YSD1 (Fig. 2A). Measurements of [35S]sulfate influx showed that the mutant transporter was also unable to transport sulfate (Fig. 2B). These data show that the STAS domain is necessary for sulfate uptake by SULTR1.2 in yeast.    [[FIGURE]] Functional Importance of the Very C Terminus of the SULTR1.2 STAS Domain—Sequence comparison of the STAS domains of the A. thaliana sulfate transporters showed that 9 (of 12) of the STAS domains possess one cysteine residue at the position corresponding to SULTR1.2 Cys-645 (Fig. 1A and data not shown). Depending on the transporter considered, the common cysteine residue is located 6–49 amino acids from the C-terminal end of the protein. The sequence analysis showed that this cysteine differentiated the Arabidopsis sulfate transporters from other sulfate transporters as well as from the bacterial SpoIIAA proteins. The importance of the very C terminus of SULTR1.2 for the functionality of this transporter was thus assessed. Mutant SULTR1.2 transporters displaying serial C-terminal deletions were constructed and expressed in the YSD1 yeast mutant. As shown by influx measurements, deleting the last 4, 7, 8, or 12 amino acids of the SULTR1.2 C-terminal extension resulted in a corresponding 20, 50, 70, or 100% reduction in the ability of SULTR1.2 to transport sulfate (Fig. 2B). Therefore, the whole C terminus of SULTR1.2 is necessary to maintain the full transport capacity of this transporter. It is, however, noteworthy that the reduction of the transport capacity of SULTR1.2 did not always result in an alteration of the ability of SULTR1.2 to functionally complement the YSD1 mutant. Indeed, YSD1-expressing SULTR1.2 constructs bearing deletions of up to the last seven amino acids displayed comparable doubling time in liquid culture (Fig. 2B) and comparable growth in drop tests (Fig. 2A) to YSD1 expressing the wild-type SULTR1.2 transporter. In contrast, deleting the last 8 or 12 amino acids of SULTR1.2 severely reduced or blocked, respectively, the ability of SULTR1.2 to functionally complement the YSD1 mutant both in drop tests and in liquid culture. Thus, the ability of SULTR1.2 to complement the YSD1 mutant was altered when the capacity of SULTR1.2 to transport sulfate was lowered by more than 50% (Fig. 2B). This critical threshold was reached when eight or more amino acids were deleted from the end of SULTR1.2. Amazingly, the eighth and ninth amino acids from the end of the protein are the two cysteine residues that are specific to SULTR1.2. Altogether, the results of our deletion analysis show that the whole C terminus of SULTR1.2 is important to maintain the full capacity of SULTR1.2 to transport sulfate and that within this C terminus, the Cys-645 and Cys-646 seem to play a critical role to maintain the full functionality of SULTR1.2 in yeast.  Functional Role of Cysteine 645 and Cysteine 646 in Sulfate Transport by SULTR1.2—The implication of each of the two Cys-645 and Cys-646 residues in the functionality of SULTR1.2 was further investigated. Three mutant SULTR1.2 transporters were constructed by site-directed mutagenesis of the Cys-645 and Cys-646 residues. Two of these mutant transporters harbored the simple C645S and C646S substitutions, respectively, and the third one harbored the double C645S/C646S substitution. The C645S and C646S substitutions resulted in a 50 and 35% reduction of sulfate uptake, respectively, compared with the sulfate uptake by the wild-type SULTR1.2 (Fig. 3B). However, none of these substitutions induced an increase of the yeast doubling time in liquid culture (Fig. 3B). The double C645S/C646S substitution resulted in an additive effect of the two simple substitutions with respect to sulfate uptake (Fig. 3B). It also induced a ∼60% increase in the yeast doubling time in liquid culture (Fig. 3B). These results show that each of the two Cys-645 and Cys-646 residues is important for optimum sulfate uptake by SULTR1.2. It is, however, noticeable that none of these residues is essential for the activity of SULTR1.2 since neither the simple C645S and C646S nor the double C645S/C646S substitutions completely abolished the ability of SULTR1.2 to complement the YSD1 mutant (Fig. 3A).    [[FIGURE]] Functional Role of Thr-587 within the STAS Putative Phosphorylation Site—The three-dimensional modeling revealed that the DSSG phosphorylation site of SpoIIAA and its structural environment were well conserved in the SULTR1.2 STAS domain (Fig. 1B). In SpoIIAA, phosphorylation occurs on the first serine of the DSSG motif (CITATION). The putative phosphorylation site of the SULTR1.2 STAS domain is DTSG; Thr-587 of SULTR1.2 corresponds to Ser-58 of SpoIIAA (Fig. 1A). Using site-directed mutagenesis, we constructed mutant SULTR1.2 transporters in which Thr-587 was deleted (T587ΔT) or was substituted either by serine (T587S), by alanine (T587A), or by aspartic acid (T587D). All the mutated transporters failed to restore growth of the YSD1 mutant in the presence of 100 μm sulfate as the sole sulfur source (Fig. 4). These results show that Thr-587 is critical for the function of SULTR1.2.    [[FIGURE]] The Mutant SULTR1.2 Proteins Are Targeted to the Yeast Plasma Membrane—As shown above, all the SULTR1.2 transporters harboring a mutation in their STAS domain displayed a reduction, or even a lack of sulfate transport activity in yeast. This altered phenotype might have been the result of an erroneous targeting of the mutant transporters to the yeast plasma membrane, as has been suggested by Shibagaki and Grossman (CITATION). We thus checked whether the presence of site-directed mutations could alter the targeting of the SULTR1.2 transporter to the yeast plasma membrane. To enable detection of the wild-type and mutant SULTR1.2 transporters by Western analysis, a FLAG® epitope was fused to the C termini of the wild-type transporter, of the mutant transporter displaying deletion of its last 12 amino acids, and of every mutant transporter displaying amino acid substitutions. When expressed in yeast, the flagged transporters induced the same phenotypes as the un-flagged ones (data not shown). Every truncated or mutated SULTR1.2 transporter appeared to be present in the plasma membrane-enriched fraction (Fig. 5). The mutant transporters were less abundant than the wild-type transporter in this fraction, suggesting that SULTR1.2 proteins altered in their capacity to transport sulfate are less stable and could be degraded more easily than the wild-type protein. A similar result has been observed for deletions of the whole STAS domain of SULTR1.2 (CITATION). However, no significant difference was recorded in the targeting to the plasma membrane between constructions that only reduced (C645S, C646S, C645S/C646S) or completely abolished sulfate transport (A641STOP, T587A, T587S, T587ΔT, T587D). The lack of functionality of these latter mutant transporters could then be ascribed to the loss of the transporters ability to transport sulfate and not to an incorrect targeting to the plasma membrane.    [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Computational Sequence Analysis—Structural predictions, fold recognition, and sequence threading onto three-dimensional structures were carried out using 3D-PSSM, FUGUE, and GenTHREADER through the @TOME meta-server available at bioserv.cbs.cnrs.fr (CITATION). TITO (Tool for Incremental Threading Optimization) was applied automatically to evaluate the sequence-structure alignment provided by the meta-server. Edition and optimization of the alignment was performed using the program ViTO.2 Promising sequence-structure alignments were further submitted to MODELLER 6.2 for comparative protein modeling by satisfaction of spatial restraints (CITATION). Resulting models were evaluated using the programs Verify3D (CITATION) and PROSA (CITATION).    Plasmid Constructions and Site-directed Mutagenesis—All the constructs were performed by PCR amplification with the high fidelity Pfu DNA polymerase (Promega, Madison, WI) using the Arabidopsis full-length SULTR1.2 cDNA as template. The amplification products corresponding to the wild-type SULTR1.2 transporter, to the mutant SULTR1.2 transporters harboring deletions of the last 4, 7, 8, 12, or 131 amino acids, or to the mutant SULTR1.2 transporters harboring the simple C645S, C646S, or double C645S/C646S substitutions were obtained using the same forward primer, 5′-ATgTCgTCAAgAgCTCACCCTgTggAC-3′, and the following reverse primers, 5′-TCAgACCTCgTTggAgAgTTTTggACAg-3′, 5′-TCATCAgAgTTTTggACAgCAAgCCTCgACg-3′, 5′-CTATCAACAgCAAgCCTCgACggCATCA-3′, 5′-TCATCAgCAAgCCTCgACggCATCAgCCACCg-3′, 5′-CTACTAggCATCAgCCACCgTTAgATAgAT-3′, 5′-TCATCACTgTTgAATATTTCTgTAAAC-3′, 5′-TCAgACCTCgTTggAgAgTTTTggAgAgCAAgCC-3′, 5′-TCAgACCTCgTTggAgAgTTTTggACAggAAgCC-3′, and 5′-TCAgACCTCgTTggAgAgTTTTggAgAggAAgCC-3′, respectively. The PCR products were cloned into the pCR-Script SK+ vector (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) at the SrfI restriction site in the appropriate orientation.  The site-directed mutageneses corresponding to the deletion of threonine 587 (T587ΔT) and to the T587S, T587A, or T587D substitutions were performed in two steps. In the first step and for every mutagenesis experiment, two PCR products were generated using the full-length SULTR1.2 cDNA as template; one of the PCR constructs consisted of the beginning of the SULTR1.2 coding sequence, from the start codon to the mutagenized threonine 587 codon, and the other consisted of the end of the SULTR1.2 coding sequence, from the mutagenized threonine 587 codon to the stop codon. Both PCR products were separately cloned in the pCR-Script SK+ vector at the SrfI restriction site and in the appropriate orientation. In the second step the whole mutagenized coding sequence was reassembled by in-frame subcloning of the 3′ end of the coding sequence downstream of the 5′ end. For every site-directed mutagenesis, this two-step cloning procedure required the use of appropriate PCR primers, which harbored the desired mutation of the threonine 587 codon and which were partially overlapping and contained a common restriction site enabling the inframe assembly of the whole coding sequence. For the different site-directed mutageneses, the 5′-gCTCCggAATCgATgTCCgTAACAggTgAC-3′ (T587ΔT-rev), 5′-ACgTCTAgAATCgATgTCCgTAACAggTgA-3′ (T587S-rev), 5′-CTAgCTAgCATCgATgTCCgTAACAggTgA-3′ (T587A-rev), 5′-gCTCCggAgTCATCgATgTCCgTAACAggT-3′ (T587D-rev), reverse primers were used in combination with the forward 5′-ATgTCgTCAAgAgCTCACCCTgTggAC-3′ primer to amplify the beginning of the SULTR1.2 coding sequence. The 5′-gCTCCggAATTCACgCATTAgAAgACTTAT-3′ (T587ΔT-fw), 5′-TTAgCTAgCggTATTCACgCATTAgAAgAC-3′ (T587S-fw), 5′-TTAgCTAgCggTATTCACgCATTAgAAgAC-3′ (T587A-fw), or 5′-gCTCCggAATTCACgCATTAgAAgACTTAT-3′ (T587D-fw) forward primers were used in combination with the 5′-TCAgACCTCgTTgtgAgAgTTTTggACAg-3′ reverse primer to amplify the end of the SULTR1.2 coding sequence. The restriction sites used for the reassembly of the whole coding sequence corresponding to the deletion of threonine 587 and to the T587S, T587A, or T587D substitutions were BseA1, XbaI/NheI, NheI, and BseA1, respectively (underlined in the primer sequences).  The DNA sequences of the constructs were checked (GenomeExpress, Grenoble, France). Then, for every construct a HindIII-NotI fragment comprising the whole coding sequence was subcloned at the corresponding sites into the yeast expression vector pYES2 (Invitrogen) under the control of the inducible GALI promoter.  Construction of Wild-type and Mutant SULTR1.2::FLAG Protein Fusions—In a first step the wild-type coding sequence of SULTR1.2 was fused at its 3′ end to the DNA sequence encoding the FLAG® epitope tag DYKDDDDK in the yeast expression vector pESC-URA (Stratagene). For that, PCR amplification was performed with the high fidelity Pfu DNA Polymerase (Promega) using the Arabidopsis full-length SULTR1.2 cDNA as template and the forward 5′-AtgTCgTCAAgAgCTCACCCTgTggAC-3′ and reverse 5′-CCTggACTAgTCCgACCTCgTTggAggAgTTTTgg-3′ primers. The latter primer was designed so that it enabled the replacement of the SULTR1.2 stop codon by a new SpeI restriction site (underlined in the primer sequence) allowing in-frame fusion with the FLAG® sequence. The PCR product was cloned into the pCR-Script SK+ vector (Stratagene) at the SrfI site and in the appropriate orientation. The EcoRI-SpeI fragment comprising the whole SULTR1.2 coding sequence was then subcloned into pESC-URA at the EcoRI/SpeI sites, giving the pESC-SULTR1.2::FLAG vector. The SULTR1.2::FLAG fusion was under the control of the inducible yeast GAL10 promoter.  The mutant SULTR1.2::FLAG fusions were constructed in a second step. The mutant SULTR1.2 clones described above were used as template for PCR amplification using the high fidelity Pfu DNA Polymerase (Promega). Only the STAS region of the mutant SULTR1.2 was amplified. The forward 5′-CCAAgAACTTCggTTTACAgAAATATTC-3′ primer was used in combination with the reverse 5′-CCTggACTAgTCCgACCTCgTTggAgAgTTTTgg-3′ primer for all the constructs except for the SULTR1.2 Δ12 construct for which the reverse primer was 5′-CCggACTAgTCCggCATCAgCCACCgTTAgATA-3′. The PCR products were digested with both the AvrII and SpeI restriction enzymes, and the resulting fragments were introduced in pESC-URA SULTR1.2::FLAG at the corresponding sites, replacing the wild-type fragment by the mutated ones. All the constructions were verified by sequencing.  Yeast Transformation and Growth—The pYES2 plasmids harboring the wild-type and mutant SULTR1.2 transporters were introduced in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain YSD1 (MATα, his3, leu2, ura3, sul1) (CITATION), which is unable to grow when sulfate is the sole sulfur source in the medium but grows on medium supplied with a reduced sulfur source such as homocysteine. Genetic transformation was performed using the S.c. Easy Comp™ system (Invitrogen). YSD1 transformed with the empty expression vector pYES2 was used as a negative control. Recombinant yeast cells were grown for at least 6 generations to ∼1 A600 nm unit in a rich but uracil-free medium containing 0.7% (w/v) yeast nitrogen base (Difco), 0.1% (w/v) casamino acids (Difco), 5% (w/v) glucose, 0.75 mm leucine, and 1 mm histidine. Yeast cells were then washed once with sterile deionized water and resuspended to a final absorbance of 1 A600 nm unit in a selective synthetic minimal medium called B medium containing 15 mm NH4Cl, 6.6 mm KH2PO4, 0.5 mm K2HPO4, 2 mm MgCl2, 1.7 mm NaCl, 0.68 mm CaCl2, 80 μm H3BO3, 6 μm KI, 4 μm ZnCl2, 2 μm CuCl2, 1.8 μm FeCl3, 1% (w/v) galactose, 0.75 mm leucine, and 1 mm histidine (CITATION). For the drop tests 30 μl of the final suspension and of 10 and 100 times dilutions of the final suspension were dropped on the selective synthetic B medium containing either 0.1 mm Na2SO4 or 0.1 mm homocysteine as the sole sources of sulfur solidified with 1% (w/v) low sulfate containing agarose (Invitrogen). Yeast cells were grown for 3 days at 30 °C. For growth analyses in liquid cultures, YSD1 cells expressing the various pYES2::SULTR1.2 constructs were grown in synthetic selective B medium containing 0.1 mm Na2SO4 under vigorous shaking (200 rpm) at 30 °C. The doubling times were calculated from linear regression of the log2 values of the A600 per time in the exponential phase growth.  Sulfate Uptake Assays—Sulfate uptake assays were performed as already described (CITATION) with the following modifications. For the sulfate influx measurement, yeast cells were rinsed and resuspended in a sulfate-free solution (1% (w/v) galactose, 0.1 mm homocysteine, 0.75 mm leucine, and 1 mm histidine), the pH of which was adjusted to 5.0 by the addition of MES. Every sulfate uptake measurement was started by adding simultaneously K2SO4 at the final concentration of 0.1 mm and 3.7 × 104 Bq of [35S]sulfate (Amersham Biosciences).  Protein Extraction and Analysis—Yeast cells were grown up to 0.2–0.4 A600 unit in synthetic selective B medium supplemented with 0.1 mm homocysteine, washed once in cold TE buffer (10 mm Tris HCl, pH 7.6, 1 mm EDTA), and resuspended in cold extraction buffer containing 50 mm Bis-Tris propane, pH 7.6, 0.3 m mannitol, 5 mm Na2EDTA, 5 mm MgCl2, 1mm dithiothreitol, 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 0.2% (v/v) of a yeast protease inhibitor mixture (Sigma). Yeast cells were disrupted at 120 megapascals at 4 °C using the Z PLUS 1.1 KW Benchtop Cell Disrupter (Constant Systems, Warwick, UK). The homogenate was clarified by centrifugation at 2000 × g for 5 min at 4 °C, and the resulting supernatant was centrifuged at 80,000 × g for 1 h at 4 °C. The soluble proteins present in the supernatant were precipitated in 10% (w/v) trichloroacetic acid, kept on ice overnight, pelleted at 45,000 × g for 30 min at 4 °C, and resuspended in a storage TE buffer containing 1 mm dithiothreitol and 0.2% (v/v) of the yeast protease inhibitor mixture. The 80,000 × g pellet containing the crude membrane fraction was resuspended in cold storage TE buffer containing 10% (w/w) sucrose and deposited on a discontinuous 25–37-53% (w/w) sucrose gradient prepared in a TE buffer. After centrifugation in the SW41Ti rotor (Beckman Coulter, Fullerton, CA) at 150,000 × g for 19 h at 4 °C, the plasma membrane-enriched fraction corresponding to the 37–53% interface (CITATION) was collected, diluted 10 times in cold storage buffer, pelleted at 80,000 × g for 1 h at 4 °C, and resuspended in cold storage buffer. Protein concentrations were determined according to the Schaffner procedure (CITATION) using bovine serum albumin as a standard. For electrophoresis, 10 μg of proteins were mixed with ⅓ volume of 4× loading buffer (200 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.5, 8% (w/v) SDS, 8% (v/v) β-mercaptoethanol, 40% (v/v) glycerol, and 0.04% (w/v) bromophenol blue) and heated at 37 °C for 20 min. Protein samples were resolved on a 12% (w/v) polyacrylamide gel by SDS-PAGE and then electrotransferred (100 V, 1 h) onto polyvinylidene difluoride Immobilon-P membranes (Millipore, Bedford, MA). The blotted membrane was treated with methanol 95% (v/v) for 15 s, dried at 37 °C for 15 min, incubated in phosphate-buffered saline buffer containing 0.01% (v/v) Tween, 2% (w/v) bovine serum albumin and the appropriate antibody for 1 h, then washed in phosphate-buffered saline buffer containing 0.01% (v/v) Tween for 30 min. A 1:30,000 dilution of the alkaline phosphatase-conjugated monoclonal anti-FLAG® antibody (Sigma) was used to immuno-detect the SULTR1.2::FLAG fusion proteins. A 1:100,000 dilution of the polyclonal antibody raised against the Nicotiana plumbaginifolia H+-ATPase PMA2 (CITATION) was used to reveal the yeast H+-ATPase, a marker of the plasma membrane. This antibody was detected by an alkaline phosphatase-conjugated goat anti-Rabbit IgG secondary antibody (Promega). Alkaline phosphatase activity was detected using the CDP Star enhanced chemiluminescence substrate (Roche Applied Science). 
