!~ABS~! In the postgenomic era many experiments rely on the availability of transcript sequence for cloning. As these clones usually originate from cDNA libraries, the quality of these libraries is crucial. If a good library is generated it is desirable to use a versatile cloning system suitable for many different kinds of applications. The cloning systems based on in vitro recombination proves fitting for this task. However, the use of this method for shuttling entire cDNA libraries between different vectors has not yet been studied in great detail. Here we describe the construction of four cDNA libraries from different tissues of Arabidopsis thaliana, the shuttling of the libraries into expression vectors, and evaluation of this method as well as its suitability for downstream applications. Libraries were constructed from seedlings, hormone treated seedlings, flowers, developing seeds and primary leaves in the “entry vector” of the Gateway™ cloning system. After initial characterization of the libraries, they were shuttled into an expression vector (a yeast two-hybrid prey vector). To monitor for a size bias generally assumed to be inherent to in vitro recombination methods, the libraries were characterized before and after the transfer into the expression vector. However no significant difference could be detected. The functionality of the in vitro recombination system for the shuttling of entire libraries was then further tested by protein-protein interaction screens. The results of the library characterization and of the yeast two-hybrid screens and their implications for large-scale proteomic approaches are discussed.
!~RES~! The quality of a cDNA library is determined by its complexity, redundancy, and the length of the cDNAs. To maximize complexity, the source and the quality of the mRNA is crucial. Therefore, to increase the number of different mRNAs, four different cDNA libraries were generated representing a variety of specific processes (e.g. hormone response) and developmental stages (e.g. desiccation). The RNAs were derived from seedlings, hormone-treated seedlings, flowers, primary leaves and seeds at different developmental stages. Since the RNA quantities isolated from seeds and primary leaves were very low, the samples were combined and one library was generated using this material. The resulting library is referred to as the seed library hereafter. The cDNA libraries were generated in collaboration with the RZPD German Resource Center for Genome Research (Heidelberg). To yield a high number of clones in sense orientation, the RNA was reverse transcribed using the oligo-(dT) priming method. After ligation of adapters and second strand synthesis, the cDNAs were cloned into the pENTR1A vector. Primary analysis revealed that each library had an average complexity of 7×105 clones (Table 1). While the number of primary clones is a bit lower than for other available cDNA libraries (e.g. Stratagene, TAIR), this is compensated for by the large number of full-length clones (Table 2). [[TABLE]][[TABLE]] [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]] The quality of these libraries was evaluated by sequencing a total of 744 clones and by restriction analysis of a total of more than 70 clones from all libraries in the pENTR vector. All plasmids analyzed with either method contained an insert and of all clones sequenced only five (0.7%) were in the minus orientation (as determined by closest BLAST hit), demonstrating the efficiency of the methods used. As expected all three forward frames are present in almost equal ratios (Table 2). To evaluate the complexity of the libraries and the representation of different transcripts within the collection, all cDNA sequences and all contig cDNA sequences resulting from cluster analysis and subsequent assembly were assigned to the GO process ontology (Gene Ontology, http://www.geneontology.org/). As shown in Fig. 1, the process ontology assignment of all sequences indicates that some GO classes, especially the protein-metabolism category, are overrepresented in our libraries in comparison to all annotated Arabidopsis genes (TIGR5 release). Vice versa the underrepresentation of the “transcription”-GO class is remarkable. However, overall there is no substantial difference between the clones of our cDNA libraries and the whole annotated Arabidopsis genome in the functional grouping. These results indicate that the cDNA libraries described here correlate well with the different genes of the functional classes of the Arabidopsis genome. [[FIGURE]]  After quality confirmation, the cDNA libraries were transferred from the pENTR1A vector to the prey vectors via an adapted LR reaction protocol (Invitrogen). As it is generally assumed that a size bias is inherent to the in vitro recombination procedure Ohara and Temple (CITATION) tried to circumvent this problem by size fractioning the cDNA and shuttling different fractions separately. In a preliminary experiment we also shuttled two size fractions separately, but could not detect any size bias compared with shuttling the whole library at once (data not shown). Therefore, we conclude that shuttling on the library scale did not have a significant size-selection bias. To confirm these preliminary results on a larger scale, we determined the insert length of randomly picked and sequenced cDNA clones before and after the shuttling by in vitro recombination. The average insert size apparently did not change during the shuttling (Table 3) and is about 930 bp in both libraries. Interestingly, the longest cDNA clone of the library in the destination vector is longer than in the entry vector. [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]] Another problem common to the preparation of cDNA libraries is that redundancy greatly increases due to subsequent amplification steps. In our approach we tried to avoid this problem using different techniques (e.g. semi-solid expansion). To validate the success of this approach, we sequenced more than 300 randomly chosen clones of the hormone cDNA library in the pENTR1A vector and of our destination vectors, respectively. The sequences were annotated by BLAST similarity search. Sequences that were closely related were grouped together by a sequence clustering approach of the two different sequence sets—before and after the in vitro recombination of the hormone library was done. In both types of library an approximately equal number of clusters were found (Table 4). Cluster analysis merged sequences representing the same gene in one cluster. Using d2_cluster software sequences with a minimal overlap of 100 bp and at least 90% sequence identity were placed in the same cluster. Clusters containing only one or two members represented more than 90% of all cluster classes. As expected the largest clusters in both libraries consisted of proteins associated with photosynthesis. Overall the results of the cluster analysis indicated that the redundancy of the libraries was low and did not increase due to the in vitro recombination procedure (Table 4). [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]] The quality of the prey libraries was tested by using several bait proteins with known interaction partners, as well as some proteins for which interactors have not yet been described. Bait proteins included some response regulators (ARR1, 2, 3 and 9) of the cytokinin signalling pathway (Grefen and Harter CITATION; Heyl and Schmülling CITATION). Several of these proteins are known to interact with some of the so-called Arabidopsis histidine phospho-transfer proteins (AHPs; Tanaka et al. CITATION). For the proteins with unknown interaction partners, we tested adenine phosphoribosyl transferase 1 (APRT) and indole-3-glycerol phosphate synthase (IGPS) as bait proteins. APRT is involved in purine and cytokinin metabolism by means of interconverting the corresponding free bases to the phosphorylated ribosyl (Gaillard et al. CITATION; Mok and Mok CITATION). IGPS is a key enzyme of tryptophane biosynthesis which is thought to be an important step in the production of the phytohormone auxin (Ouyang et al. CITATION). Using the prey library derived from the hormone-treated seedling, we were able to detect interactions with several different clones of AHPs, namely AHP1 and AHP3, when ARR1 was used as bait. AHP3 clones also interacted when ARR2 was used as bait. In total seven separate interactions could be detected using those baits (Table 5). ARR3 was found to interact with a DNA J-like protein (At5G21510). The function of At5G09540, the interaction partner of ARR9, is unknown. [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]] Of the proteins with unknown interacting partners APRT was found to form homodimers, and IGPS interacted with a member of the hydroxyproline-rich glycoprotein family (At3g22440; Table 4).
!~MM~! For the generation of the cDNA libraries, plants and tissues from A. thaliana, Col-0, were used. For seedlings, seeds were sterilized (in 50% ethanol, 25% H2O2, 25% H2O) and placed on Whatman paper, incubated for 2 days at 4°C in the dark, then grown until the cotyledons fully expanded (5–7 days) at 26°C in 16 h light/8 h dark cycle on MS liquid medium. The seedlings were harvested and frozen directly in liquid nitrogen. For the hormone treatment, seedlings were grown on Whatman paper soaked in MS. After 5–7 days, when the cotyledons were fully expanded, the MS was replaced by MS supplemented with appropriate plant hormones (1 μM abscisic acid, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid, benzyladenine, gibberellic acid, or α-naphthalene acetic acid; Sigma). After 2 h 50% of the plants were harvested and frozen directly in liquid nitrogen, with the other 50% being collected after 24 h in the same manner. This should assure the presence of mRNA of primary response genes as well as of genes upregulated after several hours in response to the hormone treatment. For seed RNA isolation, siliques at all stages of development were harvested, frozen in liquid nitrogen and subsequently freeze-dried. The seeds were collected out of the siliques by vacuum (Gibon et al. CITATION). To isolate RNA from primary leaves, seeds were incubated for 2 days at 4°C and then sown on soil. After 7–10 days of growth under standard conditions (see above) in the greenhouse, the primary leaves of the seedlings were cut off and collected in liquid nitrogen. For the flower mRNA, inflorescences ranging from young flower buds to young siliques were harvested and immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. The total RNA was extracted with TRIzol (Sigma) following the manufacturer’s manual. In short, the tissue was ground with mortar and pestle cooled by liquid nitrogen. Of the ground tissue, 200 mg was incubated with 1 ml TRIzol for 5 min at room temperature (RT). Cell debris was removed by centrifugation (12,000×g at 4°C for 10 min) and 0.4 ml chloroform was added. After vortexing the mix was incubated for 5 min at RT. The phases were separated by centrifugation (12,000×g at 4°C for 15 min) and the aqueous phase was transferred to a new tube. A 0.6× volume of isopropyl alcohol and a 0.1× volume of 3 M sodium acetate were added to this aqueous phase and incubated for 10 min at 4°C. The precipitated RNA was pelleted by centrifugation (12,000×g at 4°C for 15 min) and after the removal of the supernatant the RNA was washed twice with 70% ethanol. After drying, the RNA was resuspended in 50 μl di-ethylepyrocarbonate-treated water. The quality and quantity of the RNA was checked by agarose gel and an Agilent biochip (data not shown). The cDNA libraries were constructed in collaboration with the RZPD German Resource Center for Genome Research, Heidelberg. In short, the total RNA was reverse-transcribed using an oligo-(dT) primer containing a NotI restriction site. A SalI adapter was ligated to the 5′ end of the first strand of the cDNA for second strand synthesis. The resulting cDNAs were cloned via the SalI/NotI sites into the pENTR1A vector (Gateway, Invitrogen) by restriction and ligation reactions and subsequently transformed into E. coli DH10B cells. The primary clones of the libraries were expanded using the semisolid phase method described previously (Hanahan et al. CITATION; Kriegler CITATION). This method was used to minimize the representational bias which can occur during the expansion of plasmid cDNA libraries. In short, around 2.5×106 primary clones were mixed with 1.35% low melting agarose in LB media, incubated for 1 h at 0°C and were subsequently incubated for 45 min at 37°C without agitation. The cells were collected by centrifugation (6,000×g for 20 min at RT) and the pellet resuspended in a total of 100 ml 2× LB glycerol (12.5%). The cells were filtered through cheese cloth and stored in 10-ml aliquots at −70°C. Raw sequence data was passed through several steps, such as cloning vector removal, quality evaluation, and conversion of data formats using the Staden Package software, version 2001 (Staden et al. CITATION). Sequences shorter than 80 nucleotides after vector and quality clip and sequences in good concordance to E. coli sequences were eliminated. The remaining EST sequences were matched to annotated Arabidopsis genes via BLASTX 2.2.6 (Altschul et al. CITATION) using the “TIGR5 Arabidopsis protein database” including mitochondrial and plastid sequences provided by TAIR (http://www.arabidopsis.org/) as reference and the BLAST parameter “E value” set to 1e−10. Reading frames and the existence of 5′-untranslated regions were calculated from the BLAST reports using a BLAST parser (BPlite, Ian Korf, Genome Sequencing Center at Washington University, St. Louis, Mo.) and scripts written in Perl. The putative clone insert length was also calculated from the BLAST results and the length of the 3′UTR was taken into account. The sequences were clustered using d2_cluster with default parameters (Burke et al. 1999) to screen for redundancy of the clone set. Before clustering the sequences were screened for interspersed repeats and low complexity DNA sequences using the CrossMatch and RepBase database for repetitive Arabidopsis DNA sequence elements (Green, http://www.genome.washington.edu/UWGC/analysistools/Swat.cfm). The sequences comprising each cluster were assembled using Phrap (http://www.phrap.org/phrap.docs/phrap.html) and the assembled cluster contig sequences as well as all respective cDNA sequences were assigned to the GO-process classes (Gene Ontology, http://www.geneontology.org/) based on the BLAST hits against TIGR5 and the Arabidopsis GOslim annotations as provided by TAIR (ftp://tairpub:tairpub@ftp.arabidopsis.org/home/tair/Genes/Gene_Ontology). To screen for protein-protein interaction, a LexA DNA binding domain-based vector (pBTM116-D9), adapted to the Gateway™ system (Goehler et al. CITATION) was used as a bait vector. As prey vector, the pGAD10 vector (Clontech) was digested with EcoRI and the resulting overhangs filled in with the Klenow enzyme (NEB). Each of the three Gateway conversion cassettes was inserted into the vector by ligation, resulting in three different vectors accommodating cDNA in all possible forward frames. Correct cloning and insertion were checked by sequencing. The DNA of the respective pENTR cDNA library was prepared from approximately 7×105 clones using the Qiagen Plasmid Maxi Kit. The DNA was transferred to the pGAD10-GW prey vectors (a mixture of the three vectors each with one Gateway cassette) by the Gateway LR reaction. In short, the prey vectors were linearized by digestion with BssHI. One hundred nanograms of each prey vector were mixed with 300 ng of the respective cDNA library in the pENTR1A vector, 4 μl 5× LR reaction buffer and made up with water to 16 μl. After the addition of 4 μl Clonase mix, the reaction was incubated at 25°C for at least 20 h. Then the mix was Proteinase K treated for 10 min at 37°C and subsequently deactivated by incubation for 10 min at 80°C. Afterwards, the whole LR reaction was used to transform 50 μl DH10B cells by electroporation. The cells were then plated on 16 large plates (22×22 cm) of selective solid medium (100 μg/ml Carbenicillin). On average there were about 1×105 clones per plate resulting in a total of 1.6 million clones. The clones of each plate were collected in 4 ml 1× TE (+ RNase A) and the plasmid DNA was isolated using a Qiagen Plasmid Mega Kit. The yeast strain L40ccαU (Goehler et al. CITATION) containing the bait vector was grown in YPD liquid media at 30°C for 36 h. This starter culture was used to inoculate 100 ml YPD media to a cell density of OD600=0.3. The resulting culture was grown at 30°C on a shaker until OD600=0.7–0.9. The cells were harvested by centrifugation (5 min at 3,000×g) and resuspended in 25 ml 1× TE. The cells were then collected again by centrifugation, resuspended in 1 ml Mix 1 (100 mM lithium acetate, 1 M sorbitol and 0.5× TE) and incubated at RT for 10 min. Five hundred microlitres of salmon sperm (5 mg/ml) and 50 μg of the selected prey library were mixed and added to the cells. Then 7 ml Mix 2 (100 mM lithium acetate, 45% PEG 3350, 1× TE) was added to the cells and mixed carefully. The mix was incubated for 30 min at 30°C, before 880 μl DMSO was added followed by a 14-min heat shock at 42°C. Afterwards the yeast cells were washed in 5 ml H2O and finally resuspended in 4 ml H2O. For the determination of transformation efficiency, 2 μl of this mix was plated on SD medium lacking leucine and tryptophane (SDII) and incubated at 30°C. After 3 days the grown colonies were counted and the total number of transformants was calculated. The rest of the cells were plated on SD media lacking leucine, tryptophane, histidine and uracil (SDIV) on four 22×22cm plates and incubated for 7 days at 30°C. To verify putative interactions, positive clones from the screens were restreaked on SDIV media. From those strains growing after 5 days on SDIV media, prey plasmids were isolated as described previously (Hoffman and Winston CITATION). To increase the plasmid DNA quantity, the DNA was transformed into E. coli by electroporation and subsequently reisolated (Sambrook CITATION). The DNA was analyzed by restriction digest and also tested by retransformation into a yeast strain containing the respective bait plasmid. Finally, the identity of the positives clones was analyzed by sequencing. For each bait protein a minimum of 5×105 clones were screened in the yeast two-hybrid system.
