!~ABS~! Photosynthetic organisms are able to adjust to changing light conditions through state transitions, a process that involves the redistribution of light excitation energy between photosystem II (PSII) and photosystem I (PSI) (CITATION) . Balancing of the light absorption capacity of these two photosystems is achieved through the reversible association of the major antenna complex (LHCII) between PSII and PSI (ref. 3). Excess stimulation of PSII relative to PSI leads to the reduction of the plastoquinone pool and the activation of a kinase (CITATION) ; the phosphorylation of LHCII; and the displacement of LHCII from PSII to PSI (state 2). Oxidation of the plastoquinone pool by excess stimulation of PSI reverses this process (state 1). The Chlamydomonas thylakoid-associated Ser-Thr kinase Stt7, which is required for state transitions, has an orthologue named STN7 in Arabidopsis (CITATION) . Here we show that loss of STN7 blocks state transitions and LHCII phosphorylation. In stn7 mutant plants the plastoquinone pool is more reduced and growth is impaired under changing light conditions, indicating that STN7, and probably state transitions, have an important role in response to environmental changes.
!~RES~! Although the phosphorylation of LHCII was observed many years ago (CITATION) , the search for kinases involved in this process in vascular plants has not yet been successful (CITATION) . The Arabidopsis genome contains two genes, STN7 and STN8, that display significant sequence identity with the Chlamydomonas gene encoding the chloroplast Stt7 protein Ser-Thr kinase (CITATION) . To determine the function of these proteins two Arabidopsis lines with T-DNA insertions in these genes were obtained from the Salk Institute collection. After self-crosses, homozygous lines for three T-DNA insertions (Supplementary Fig. S1) were identified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) on genomic DNA by using appropriate primers as described in the Methods (data not shown). RT–PCR with specific primers for STN7 and STN8 was performed with RNA from the wild type and from the stn7 and stn8 mutants. Fragments corresponding to STN7 and STN8 with the expected size and sequence could be amplified from the wild-type RNA but not from the RNA of the mutants, indicating that the expression of the STN7 and STN8 genes is blocked in these lines (Supplementary Fig. S1). In land plants, 15–20% of LHCII is mobile during state transitions and is reversibly displaced between PSII and PSI (ref. 3). To determine whether state transitions are affected in stn7, fluorescence measurements were performed as described (CITATION) . The maximum fluorescence signal, Fm, was measured on an intact leaf with a saturating flash using a pulse amplitude modulation fluorimeter. The leaf was subsequently illuminated with blue light in order to excite preferentially PSII, and the stationary fluorescence yield was recorded. After 15 min, far-red light was added to the blue light. This led to the stimulation of PSI and the transition to state 1 (Fig. 1a, b). After 15 min of blue and far-red light treatment, the maximal fluorescence in state 1 (Fm1) was determined. Then the far-red light was switched off to promote the return to state 2 under blue light excitation, and the maximal fluorescence in state 2 (Fm2) was determined after 15 min. Because the intensity of the light used to induce state transitions in Fig. 1 was not sufficient to elicit photo-inhibition as verified by Fv/Fm (where Fv is variable fluorescence) measurements (data not shown), we conclude that the observed changes in Fm are caused by state transitions alone. [[FIGURE]] Transition from state 1 to state 2 can be measured by the changes in maximal fluorescence ((Fm1 - Fm2)/Fm1)100 (ref. 8). In the wild-type strain this value was 10% (Fig. 1a). A similar value was obtained with heterozygous stn7/STN7 plants (data not shown). In contrast, in the homozygous stn7/stn7 mutant, state transitions were undetectable (Fig. 1b). Thus the stn7 mutation is recessive, as expected from a loss-of-function mutation. Similar measurements with the stn8 homozygous mutant indicated that it is not significantly affected in state transitions (data not shown). The double mutant stn7/stn8 displayed the same phenotype as stn7. The wild-type phenotype was restored after stn7 plants were transformed with the wild-type STN7 gene (Fig. 1c). To determine the changes in fluorescence both in PSII and PSI, low-temperature fluorescence emission spectra were measured at 77 K under state 1 and state 2 conditions. The spectra were normalized at 685 nm, corresponding to the peak of PSII fluorescence. In wild-type plants a transition from state 1 to state 2 was accompanied by a large increase in relative PSI fluorescence at 730 nm, indicating a redistribution of the light excitation energy from PSII to PSI (Fig. 1g). In contrast, only a small increase in relative PSI fluorescence occurred in the stn7 mutant, confirming that transition to state 2 is vastly reduced and that this mutant is blocked in state 1, similar to the stt7 mutant of Chlamydomonas (Fig. 1h). The presence of a putative NH2-terminal transit peptide suggested that the STN7 kinase is localized within the chloroplast, as is the case with the Stt7 orthologue in Chlamydomonas (CITATION) . To verify this localization, we transformed the stn7 mutant with a construct carrying the STN7 complementary DNA tagged with the haemagglutinin (HA) epitope at its 3′ end under the control of the endogenous STN7 promoter. Transformants obtained with this construct had a wild-type state transition phenotype, indicating that the tagged protein retains its activity (Fig. 1d). Immunoblotting of purified soluble and membrane chloroplast fractions with anti-HA antiserum revealed that STN7–HA was present in the chloroplast membrane fraction, with the expected size of 58 kDa (Supplementary Fig. S2A). Treatment of chloroplast membranes with calf intestinal phosphatase increased the mobility of the band, suggesting that the STN7 protein is phosphorylated (Supplementary Fig. S2A). The chloroplast localization of STN7 was further confirmed by transient expression of STN7 fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) in isolated Arabidopsis protoplasts. Moreover, the amino-terminal 88 amino acids of STN7 are sufficient to target GFP into chloroplasts (Supplementary Fig. S2B). The current model of state transitions assumes that phosphorylation of LHCII is required for the transition from state 1 to state 2 (refs 12, 13). Thr residues in the N-terminal part of the products of Lhcb1 and Lhcb2 are phosphorylated under state 2 conditions (CITATION) . If the stn7 mutant is blocked in state 1, it should fail to phosphorylate LHCII under state 2 conditions. To test this prediction, LHCII phosphorylation was measured under state 1 and state 2 conditions in the wild-type and stn7 strains. State 1 was obtained by maintaining the plants in the dark (CITATION) and state 2 was induced by light (80 µmol m-2 s-1, 30 min). Thylakoid membranes were isolated and the proteins were fractionated by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) and immunoblotted with anti-phosphothreonine antibodies. A marked increase in LHCII phosphorylation was observed for the wild type but not for stn7 under state 2 conditions (Fig. 2a). Moreover, phosphorylation of the D1 and D2 proteins was enhanced under these conditions for both the wild type and stn7. The fact that the increase in D1/D2 phosphorylation still occurred in stn7 under state 2 conditions indicates that the STN7 kinase is specifically involved in LHCII phosphorylation. Protein kinase activity was also determined with isolated thylakoids using [γ-32P]ATP for labelling. State 1 was obtained in the dark and gave rise to a weak phosphorylation of LHCII. Upon induction of state 2 by light for 20 min, LHCII was strongly phosphorylated in wild-type but not in stn7 thylakoids (Fig. 2b). Phosphorylation of D1/D2 and PsbH was also markedly increased in wild-type thylakoids and only slightly less so in stn7 thylakoids, indicating that these different substrates are phosphorylated by another kinase. The identity of the phosphorylated LHCII band was confirmed by its enrichment in the purified LHCII fraction (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To test further the role of the STN7 kinase in state transitions, the conserved Lys 167 within domain II of the HA-tagged STN7 kinase was changed to Arg or Gln by site-directed mutagenesis. The gene of this altered kinase was introduced into the stn7 mutant by transformation. No restoration of state transitions was observed, although the mutant protein accumulated (Fig. 1d–f, i). This clearly demonstrates that the activity of the STN7 kinase is required for state transitions. Thus, the Chlamydomonas Stt7 and Arabidopsis STN7 kinases are not only structurally but also functionally related. However, it is not yet known whether these kinases phosphorylate LHCII directly or whether additional kinases are involved in this process. Mutants deficient in cytochrome b6f or PSI activity are deficient in state transitions (CITATION) . To test whether accumulation of these complexes was affected in stn7, immunoblots were performed with proteins from wild type and the stn7 mutant using antisera directed against the Rieske and PsaA proteins, which are representative subunits of these complexes. Moreover, immunoblots with antibodies against D1 (PSII), AtpA, LHCII and LHCI were used. In all cases no difference between wild type and stn7 was observed (Supplementary Fig. S4). Because the TAK kinase also appears to be involved in state transitions (CITATION) , we verified by immunoblotting with TAK antisera that its expression is not altered in the stn7 mutant (Supplementary Fig. S4). On the basis of the observation that loss of the TAK and STN7 kinases leads to different phenotypes and that in contrast to STN7, the TAK kinase is involved in the phosphorylation of other thylakoid proteins besides LHCII, it is unlikely that these kinases act in the same pathway. Because the main component in non-photochemical chlorophyll fluorescence quenching is energy-dependent (qE) (CITATION) , it was important to check that the observed changes in fluorescence of the stn7 mutant are not due to alterations in qE. Wild-type and stn7 plants were grown either at a PFD (photon flux density) of 60 or 160 µmol m-2 s-1 and detached leaves were subsequently challenged with increasing light intensities. There was no significant difference in non-photochemical chlorophyll fluorescence quenching (NPQ) between wild-type and mutant plants under both conditions (Fig. 3a, b). Moreover, we confirmed previous studies showing that the qE-deficient mutants are able to perform state transitions (CITATION) (data not shown). Taken together these results indicate that state transitions and qE operate independently from each other. [[FIGURE]] Although state transitions were discovered more than thirty years ago (CITATION) , their exact function is still not clear. The proposal that this process could have a role in protection against high light levels seems less likely given the fact that the LHCII kinase is inactivated by high light levels (CITATION) . Another proposal is that state transitions may be involved in optimizing the photosynthetic yield and thus growth under low light conditions. However, growth of stn7 mutant plants was not different compared to that of wild type when plants were subjected to an 8 h light/16 h dark regime either at a low (60 µmol m-2 s-1) or higher PFD (160 µmol m-2 s-1). Photosynthetic parameters were determined from detached leaves of these plants by measuring chlorophyll fluorescence and CO2 assimilation under increasing light intensities. In stn7 leaves, the plastoquinone pool was more reduced as shown by the increase in 1 - qP (Fig. 3c, d), where qP is photochemical quenching. This is probably due to the fact that excitation energy could not be redistributed to PSI through state transitions. An increase in plastoquinone reduction was also reported in the Arabidopsis strain lacking PsaH, which is deficient in state transitions (CITATION) . Although CO2 assimilation rates of stn7 and wild-type leaves were similar in plants grown at 160 µmol m-2 s-1, this was no longer the case when plants were grown at 60 µmol m-2 s-1 (Fig. 3e, f). Under these conditions the maximum rate of CO2 fixation (Pmax) was reduced but there was no significant change of the quantum yield of CO2 fixation (initial slope in Fig. 3e). These observations are compatible with the fact that there was no significant change in growth between wild type and stn7 under low light conditions. The lowering of Pmax may result from the loss of control of the plastoquinone redox state in stn7, which may perturb the adaptation processes to light, which are known to be complex. Thus, the STN7 kinase may also have an important role in the regulation of the redox state of the plastoquinone pool by balancing the light absorption between the two photosystems. In order to determine the impact of state transitions on plant growth, plants were placed under changing light conditions. In a first experiment, plants were grown under 8 h light/16 h dark photoperiods in which the PFD was changed every hour from 50 to 240 µmol m-2 s-1 during the light period. In another experiment the plants were subjected to a 12 h light/12 h dark regime with alternating 1 h PSII and PSI light cycles during the light phase (see Methods). Under both conditions growth of the stn7 mutant was impaired relative to wild-type plants as further confirmed by fresh and dry weight measurements (Fig. 4). Notably, flowering of the stn7 plants grown under changing PSII and PSI light cycles occurred earlier (44 ± 3 days) than in the wild-type plants (51 ± 4 days). When the periods of the light cycles were increased, the differences in growth between wild-type and mutant plants became less pronounced. It is likely that under these conditions other more long-term mechanisms of adaptation involving changes in the expression of photosynthetic genes (CITATION) become prominent. Our results differ from those obtained with Arabidopsis plants that lack PsaH and have state transition deficiencies. In this case growth was not impaired although oxygen evolution was diminished by 14% (CITATION) . These differences could be due to the particular growth conditions used and/or to the different primary lesions in these plants. [[FIGURE]] As much as 80% of the LHC antenna is mobile in Chlamydomonas during state transitions (CITATION) , whereas in land plants the mobile fraction of LHCII is only 15–20% (CITATION) . In spite of this relatively low value, our study shows that in land plants the STN7 kinase, and probably state transitions, are important for adaptation and that in their absence growth is significantly impaired under conditions in which light quality and quantity change frequently. This points to the importance of state transitions in a natural environment where plants are often subjected to light fluctuations of this sort.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was used for all experiments. Plants were grown under controlled conditions of light (50 or 160 µmol m-2 s-1; 8 h or 12 h photoperiods, 23/20 °C day/night, and relative air humidity of 50–70%). All physiological and biochemical analyses were performed with rosette leaves harvested before flowering. We obtained the T-DNA insertion lines in the Columbia background for At1g68830 (SALK 073254) and At5g01920 (SALK 060869 and SALK 064913) from the Salk Institute (see Supplementary Information for the characterization of these lines and for the DNA, RNA, protein and chlorophyll analyses). State transitions and NPQ were measured as described (CITATION) (see Supplementary Information for details). Photosynthetic gas exchange and chlorophyll fluorescence measurements were simultaneously performed on detached leaves using a LI-6400 portable photosynthesis system equipped with a 6400-40 fluorometer (LI-COR Biosciences) (for details see Supplementary Information). PSII light was obtained with cool white fluorescent lamps (Osram L18W/20) with orange 105 Lee filters and PSI light was obtained with red fluorescent lamps (Osram L18W/60) with red 027 Lee filters. Chlorophyll fluorescence emission spectra of thylakoid membrane suspensions were recorded in liquid nitrogen (77 K) as described (CITATION) (see Supplementary Information). Leaves from dark-acclimated plants, floating on water, were exposed to low light (80 µmol m-2 s-1) or kept in the dark for 30 min (CITATION) . Thylakoid membranes were isolated from the dark-incubated and illuminated leaves as described (CITATION) in the presence of 10 mM NaF to inhibit phospho-LHCII phosphatase activity. Thylakoids were re-suspended in assay buffer consisting of 50 mM HEPES-KOH pH 7.5, 100 mM sucrose, 5 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl2 and 10 mM NaF at a final chlorophyll concentration of 0.4 mg ml-1. After dark adaptation, thylakoids were isolated from plants according to ref. 30, and re-suspended in storage buffer (100 mM sorbitol, 5 mM MgCl2, 5 mM NaCl and 50 mM HEPES/KOH pH 7.5). They were used as substrate for the kinase assay. Thylakoid membrane proteins equivalent to 8 µg of chlorophyll were subjected to a 20 min light induction (80 µmol m-2 s-1) at 25 °C in the presence of 10 µCi [γ-32P]ATP (Amersham 3,000 Ci mmol-1), 0.4 mM ATP and 10 mM NaF in 100 µl of storage buffer (CITATION) . Reactions were terminated by centrifugation, washing twice in storage buffer and addition of denaturing sample buffer, and were electrophoresed on 12% polyacrylamide-SDS gels, and finally analysed with a phosphorimager.
