!~ABS~! Calmodulin (CaM) is a ubiquitous Ca2+-binding protein known to regulate diverse cellular functions by modulating the activity of various target proteins. We isolated a cDNA encoding AtWRKY7, a novel CaM-binding transcription factor, from an Arabidopsis expression library with horseradish peroxidase-conjugated CaM. CaM binds specifically to the Ca2+-dependent CaM-binding domain (CaMBD) of AtWRKY7, as shown by site-directed mutagenesis, a gel mobility shift assay, a split-ubiquitin assay, and a competition assay using a Ca2+/CaM-dependent enzyme. Furthermore, we show that the CaMBD of AtWRKY7 is a conserved structural motif (C-motif) found in group IId of the WRKY protein family.
!~RES~! To isolate CaM-binding transcription factors in plants, we screened an Arabidopsis cDNA expression library using HRP-conjugated CaM as a probe CITATION. Fifty positive clones were obtained from about 5×105 recombinant phages. DNA sequencing of the clones and comparisons with known sequences in the GenBank database revealed known plant CaMBPs, such as kinesin-like proteins CITATION, CaM-binding heat-shock proteins CITATION and two CaMBPs of unknown function. The 50 positive clones also included several novel CaMBPs with high homology to known proteins, and others with no significant homology to any reported proteins. From these, we obtained two cDNA clones that encode AtWRKY7, a WRKY transcription factor. AtWRKY7 has a WRKY DNA-binding domain and a short conserved amino acid stretch called the C-motif. The deduced amino acid sequence of AtWRKY7 shows the distinct characteristics of the WRKY group IId, namely, the conserved primary motif (designated C-region; VSSFK [K/R] VISLL), the basic stretch that is a conserved motif (designated 1) that may constitute nuclear localization sequences, and the WRKY DNA-binding domain (CITATION A). To map the location of the CaMBD, full-length AtWRKY7 cDNA and five truncated versions were expressed in Escherichia coli as GST-tag fusions (CITATIONA). The four proteins bearing the putative CaMBD (D0–D3) interacted with CaM::HRP in a Ca2+-dependent manner, unlike the proteins lacking this sequence (D4 and D5) (CITATIONB). Thus, the 17-amino acid stretch at the N-terminus of AtWRKY7, i.e., the C-region, (72VAVNSFKKVISLLGRSR88) may be its CaMBD. The AtWRKY7 CaMBD does not fit into the classical CaM-binding motif CITATION but it does form a basic, amphiphilic-helix whose hydrophobic residues are segregated from hydrophilic residues along the helix (CITATION A). To confirm its interaction with CaM, a synthetic peptide containing its sequence was constructed and its CaM binding was detected by gel mobility shift assays under non-denaturing conditions CITATION. In the presence of 0.1 mM Ca2+, formation of CaM-peptide complex increased as a function of peptide concentration and became saturated at two peptide equivalents per CaM; however, the complexes were undetectable in the presence of 2mM EGTA (CITATIONB). We then assessed whether the synthetic peptide could compete with the Ca2+/CaM-dependent enzyme PDE for binding to CaM. Thus, the CaM dose-dependent activation of PDE was monitored in the presence or absence of the peptide. The activation curves shifted to the right in the presence of the peptide, indicating that it competed with PDE for CaM (CITATIONC). The concentrations of CaM needed to achieve half-maximal activation of PDE in the absence and presence of the peptide were 10.1 and 38.2 nM, respectively, indicating a 3.8-fold difference. The K d value of the peptide for the activation of PDE by CaM was determined to be 25.8 nM. To identify AtWRKY7 CaMBD residues that are important in CaM binding, six conserved hydrophobic residues were substituted with Arg (denoted as V74R, F77R, V80R, I81R, L83R and L84R) (CITATION A) and the CaM-binding of the variants was determined by a CaM overlay assay (CITATIONB). The F77R and L84R variants showed reduced CaM binding, while the double-amino-acid mutant F77R/L84R did not bind CaM at all. Thus, the two hydrophobic amino acids F77 and L84 may be important in CaM binding. To test whether CaM and AtWRKY7 interact in vivo, the yeast split-ubiquitin assay, which is based on the reassembly of the N- and C-terminal halves (Nub and Cub) of ubiquitin (Ub) CITATION, was used. Thus, AtWRKY7 and CaM were fused to the C-terminus of Nub and N-terminus of Cub, respectively. The Cub of ubiquitin was linked to an N-terminally modified Ura3p reporter containing Arg in amino acid position 1 (RUra3p). If CaM interacts with AtWRKY7, Nub and Cub will reassemble into a native-like Ub and RUra3p will be cleaved by ubiquitin-specific proteases. The released RUra3p will then be rapidly degraded though the N-end rule pathway of protein degradation CITATION. Consequently, cells containing CaM-Cub-RUra3p and Nub-AtWRKY7 are unable to grow on plates lacking uracil, but grow on plates containing 5-FOA, which is converted into toxic 5-fluorouracil by RUra3p. If CaM does not interact with AtWRKY7, the yeast cells are uracil prototrophs and 5-FOA-sensitive. The cells co-expressing CaM-Cub-RUra3p and Nub-AtWRKY7 grew on 5-FOA-bearing plates but not on uracil-lacking plates (CITATION ). Thus, AtWRKY7 complexes stably with CaM. CaM-Cub-RUra3p/Nub and Cub-RUra3p/Nub-AtWRKY7 did not interact. To test the specificity and the CaMBD-sequence dependence of the interaction, the same experiments were repeated with the AtWRKY7 F77R/L84R mutant. Wild-type AtWRKY7 and its CaMBD mutant did not show altered protein stability when their Cub-RUra3p fusion proteins were grown on plates lacking uracil (data not shown). Co-expression of CaM and AtWRKY7 F77R/L84R greatly diminished the 5-FOA resistance of the cells. To date, 74 distinct ORFs potentially encoding WRKY proteins have been found in Arabidopsis databases CITATION. These proteins fall into three major groups and a phylogenetic tree clearly indicates that group II splits into five distinct subgroups (CITATION A). The latter classification is made on the basis of additional structural motifs in various combinations. To test whether the AtWRKY proteins can generally bind CaM, GST-fused recombinant AtWRKY4, 40, 6, 28, 7, 22 and 30 proteins were subjected to a CaM::HRP overlay assay. AtWRKY4 is one of several group I members with two WRKY DNA-binding domains and C2H2 zinc-finger motifs, AtWRKY40 (IIa), 6 (IIb), 28 (IIc), 7 (II-d), and 22 (IIe) represent the various group II subsets, and AtWRKY30 represents the group III proteins. Of all the proteins, only AtWRKY7 of the WRKY group IId interacted with CaM::HRP in the presence of Ca2+ (CITATIONB). The expression of the GST fusion proteins was verified by probing the blot with an anti-GST antibody. To test whether other AtWRKY group IId members can interact with CaM, we examined their CaM-binding ability. To date, 11 WRKY group IId genes have been identified in plants. All bear well-conserved domains that include the C-region (CITATIONC). Of the 10 proteins tested, all bound CaM (CITATIOND). Thus, the WRKY group IId members may have conserved their CaM-binding domain during evolution and may be regulated by CaM.
!~MM~! An Arabidopsis λZAPII cDNA expression library was screened to isolate CaMBPs using horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated Arabidopsis CaM2 (AtCaM2::HRP) as a probe CITATION. The following glutathione S-transferase (GST)-fused AtWRKY7 deletion constructs were generated with BamHI and SmaI: D0, amino acids 1Met-353Leu (full-length); D1, 1Met-256Ser; D2, 1Met-98Pro; D3, 1Met-88Arg; D4, 1Met-71Asp; and D5, 99Ala-353Leu. Recombinant proteins were assayed for CaM-binding activity as described in CITATION. To identify the critical CaM-binding residue(s) of AtWRKY7, we introduced one or two point mutations into the GST::AtWRKY7 (D0) clone by using the QuickChange™ Site-Directed Mutagenesis Kit (Stratagene). AtCaM2 (303pmol) was incubated with increasing concentrations of the 17 amino acid peptide spanning the AtWRKY7 CaMBD (72Val-88Arg) in 100 mM Tris–Cl (pH 7.5) and 0.1 mM CaCl2 or 2 mM EGTA for 1h at room temperature. The bound complexes were resolved by non-denaturing PAGE and visualized by staining with Coomassie brilliant blue. Bovine heart CaM-deficient PDE (Sigma) activity was assayed as described in CITATION with varying concentrations of AtCaM2 (1–200 nM) plus 100 nM synthetic peptide. The following equation was used to calculate dissociation constants CITATION: K d =([Pt]+ K −[CaM])K/([CaM]− K), where [Pt] is the total concentration of peptide added, and [CaM] and K are the concentrations of CaM required to obtain half-maximal activation of PDE in the presence or absence of peptide, respectively. AtCaM2 cDNA was cloned into a modified version of the pMet-Ste14-Cub-RUra3 vector, thereby replacing yeast Ste14. The AtWRKY7 (WT and mutant) coding regions were cloned into the the pCup-Nub-Sec62 vector, replacing yeast Sec62 CITATION. Protein pair interactions were analyzed on selection medium containing 5-FOA or lacking uracil.
