!~ABS~! Plastid DNA is a circular molecule of 120–150 kbp, which is organized into a protein–DNA complex called a nucleoid. Although various plastids other than chloroplasts exist, such as etioplasts, amyloplasts and chromoplasts, it is not easy to observe plastid nucleoids within the cells of many non-green tissues. The PEND (plastid envelope DNA-binding) protein is a DNA-binding protein in the inner envelope membrane of developing chloroplasts, and a DNA-binding domain called cbZIP is present at its N-terminus. We made various PEND–green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion proteins using the cbZIP domains from various plants, and found that they were localized in the chloroplast nucleoids in transient expression in leaf protoplasts. In stable transformants of Arabidopsis thaliana, PEND–GFP fusion proteins were also localized in the nucleoids of various plastids. We have succeeded in visualizing plastid nucleoids in various intact tissues using this stable transformant. This technique is useful in root, flower and pollen, in which it had been difficult to observe plastid nucleoids. The relative arrangement of nucleoids within a chloroplast was kept unchanged when the chloroplast moved within a cell. During the division of plastid, nucleoids formed a network structure, which made possible equal partition of nucleoids.
!~RES~! In our laboratory, various efforts have been made to analyze the plastid-targeting sequence of the PEND protein (Sato 2002, Terasawa et al. 2003). The results indicate that the N-terminal part downstream of the cbZIP domain (88 amino acids) is sufficient for the targeting to chloroplasts. We therefore used DNA constructs that express fusion proteins consisting of such an N-terminus of PEND proteins and GFP, under the control of the 35S promoter (Fig. 1A, B). The N-terminal sequences of PEND homologs of pea, B. napus and A. thaliana were tested (Terasawa and Sato 2005). Fig. 1C and D shows the results of such test experiments. In a transient expression experiment, the B. napus PEND–GFP fusion protein was targeted to the chloroplast, and localized in particulate structures (Fig. 1C2, C4). The counterstaining with DAPI (Fig. 1C3, C5) coincided with the GFP fluorescence, suggesting that the PEND–GFP was localized to the nucleoids within the chloroplasts. In this particular micrograph, two protoplasts are shown, but one of the protoplasts (upper one) was not transformed, which served as a negative control, confirming that the DAPI fluorescence was not seen with the GFP filter (IB filter cube). The localization of PEND–GFP to the nucleoids but not to the envelope membrane is explained by the fact that the C-terminal transmembrane domain of PEND protein was not included in this N-terminal construct. Then, stable transformants of A. thaliana expressing A. thaliana PEND–GFP fusion protein or pea PEND–GFP fusion protein were constructed. The lines A8-1–A8-7 that express homologous PEND–GFP, as well as P2-1–P2-22 that express pea PEND–GFP, were healthy, and comparison with wild-type lines indicated no significant difference with respect to morphology of seedling and root, growth and leaf color (Fig. 2A). The micrograph (Fig. 1D) shows a part of a root hair cell of the line A8-1, indicating that the GFP fluorescence (Fig. 1D3) was not localized to mitochondria, which is visualized by fluorescence of MitoTracker (Fig. 1D4). All these results suggest that the PEND–GFP fusion protein is principally localized to the plastid nucleoids in stable (i.e. not transient) transformants. We sometimes observed fluorescence in the cell nucleus of protoplasts in transient expression, but the nuclear fluorescence was negligible in stable transformants (note that we have a hypothesis that PEND protein might be re-targeted to the nucleus as a result of some unknown stress or senescence, but this is not a serious problem in the experiments shown in the present study). Immunoblot analysis was performed to confirm chloroplast localization of the PEND–GFP fusion protein (Fig. 2B). Proteins from total leaves or isolated chloroplasts (see Fig. 2C) of stably transformed A. thaliana seedlings (lines P2-1 and A8-1) were probed with either anti-PEND or anti-GFP antisera. In A8-1, a 35 kDa band was clearly found as a main immunoreactive band. A less intense band was found in P2-1. Semi-quantitative measurement of the abundance of PEND–GFP with respect to the large subunit of RuBisCO suggested that the level of PEND–GFP was 6–7 times higher in A8-1 than in P2-1. The fact that the relative abundance value was similar in whole leaves and isolated chloroplasts confirmed that PEND–GFP was mainly localized in chloroplasts. The difference in expression level is also evident in fluorescence image of whole seedlings (Fig. 2A bottom). In A8-1, the roots were highly fluorescent, while the fluorescence of leaves was variable depending on regions. In P2-1, fluorescence was much weaker. Endogenous PEND protein was hardly detectable in the immunoblots, and must be much less abundant than PEND–GFP (data not shown). A small amount of free GFP (30 or 26 kDa) was detected, but the free GFP did not interfere with observation of plastid nucleoids, as shown below, probably because the signal of such free GFP is diffuse and distributed over the entire cytoplasm. The band at about 50 kDa originated from non-specific reaction due to the RuBisCO large subunit. The GFP localization to nucleoids was also confirmed in isolated chloroplasts (Fig. 2C). First, we observed plastid nucleoids in various cells of cotyledons and leaves of A. thaliana transformants (Fig. 3). In the parenchymal cells of cotyledons of a dark-grown seedling, a single spherical nucleoid was found in each plastid (Fig. 3A). Depending on plastids, the fluorescence looked circular, which might reflect association of nucleoids with the envelope membrane as in dark-grown pea leaves (Sato et al. 1997). In cotyledons of light-grown seedlings, plastids were not clearly visible in the Nomarski image due to many protein bodies, but the fluorescence of PEND–GFP was useful in identifying plastids (Fig. 3B). The fluorescence was associated with elongated structures. However, it is not clear if the plastid nucleoids are elongated or this reflects the elongated shape of plastids, in which nucleoids are attached to the envelope membrane. In guard cells of a cotyledon, developed chloroplasts are clearly visible (Fig. 3C2), and the nucleoids were found as small patches within the chloroplasts (Fig. 3C1). These chloroplasts were similar to the chloroplasts of mesophyll (Fig. 3D). The multi-particulate nucleoids were also seen in pea mature leaves (Sato et al. 1997). In petiole parenchyma, chloroplasts were small and filled with starch granules (Fig. 3E2). Two or three nucleoids were seen within each chloroplast (Fig. 3E1). Nucleoids were not clearly distributed in the periphery of chloroplasts. The nucleoids were also clearly visible in plastids of non-green tissues (Fig. 4). In the seed coat, nucleoids became visible as early as 6 h after the start of imbibition of a seed (Fig. 4A). Each plastid contained a single particulate nucleoid as well as a large starch granule. At a later time (48 h after the start of imbibition), nucleoids were still seen as particulate structures (Fig. 4B). In these figures, reflection or refraction of fluorescence was found as faint background, due to thick extracellular structures of seed coat that interfered with clear observation. Petal is another example of an organ in which the dynamics of plastids and plastid nucleoids remained obscure. Fig. 4C shows that the fluorescence was found in most cells including vascular bundles. An enlargement (Fig. 4D) shows that a number of small spherical plastids were present in the peripheral cytoplasm and that two or three nucleoids were present in each plastid. In stamens, a number of plastid nucleoids were visualized (Fig. 4H). However, in pollen, nucleoids were found only rarely. An enlargement (Fig. 4I) shows such a rare observation of plastid nucleoid within a pollen grain. This is consistent with the previous finding that the plastid DNA is degraded during the formation of pollen (Kuroiwa et al. 1993). In the root, it has been difficult to discriminate plastids from mitochondria, but the PEND–GFP fluorescence clearly visualized plastid nucleoids in vivo, as shown in Fig. 1D. Fig. 4E is a wider view showing some whole root hairs. Root hairs were indeed ideal material to visualize plastids and plastid nucleoids, because they are single elongated cells and the cytoplasm is not filled with particulate structures or organelles. Plastid nucleoids were seen as small particulate structures. The fluorescence was stronger in the region near the root meristem (Fig. 4F), possibly reflecting the promoter activity of the 35S promoter in rapidly dividing cells (see also Fig. 2A showing bright fluorescence of roots). Alternatively, the amount of plastid DNA might be slightly higher near the root meristem as shown by Fujie et al. (1993). An enlargement (Fig. 4G) shows that each plastid contained a large starch granule and a single large nucleoid. This could be an aggregate of smaller nucleoid particles as shown by DAPI staining of thin sections (Fujie et al. 1993). The resolution is, in effect, lower in the present study, because a whole root is examined alive. However, the difference of fluorochromes (DAPI stains directly DNA, while PEND–GFP is associated with DNA) could also account for the difference in observed images in the two studies (see Discussion). In the cells located at the base of a root cap (columella cells), large amyloplasts filled with starch contained a few nucleoids. We next recorded motion of plastid nucleoids within plastids in various tissues as a digital movie. The imaging system that we used was effective enough to record motion of plastids for 6 min at a rate of one shot per 10 s. The chloroplasts were moving around within the mesophyll cell driven by the cytoplasmic streaming and were also rotating (Fig. 5A). In this figure, the motion of a single chloroplast was followed. This chloroplast contained six particulate nucleoids. It moved within the cell according to the cytoplasmic streaming, but the relative arrangement of the nucleoids within the chloroplast was unchanged during this time span. This and other observations suggest that nucleoids do not move freely within the chloroplast. They might bind to either the envelope membrane as shown previously (Sato et al. 1993) or the thylakoid membrane as shown recently (Jeong et al. 2003). Another observation (Fig. 5B) showed that numerous plastids were associated with the cell nucleus in a trichome, and were rapidly changing their position around the nucleus. A single nucleoid was found in each plastid. This ‘dancing’ was very rapid, and the position, orientation and morphology of plastids were incessantly changing, but the morphology of the nucleoid did not change during the plastid movement. It is not clear whether such rapid movement is caused by cytoplasmic streaming or some specific interaction with cytoskeleton surrounding the nucleus. Such motion might be important in nucleo-plastidic interaction, but it is difficult to find its physiological significance at present. We found rapid motion of plastids having a clearly condensed nucleoid within several long cells of the vascular bundle (Fig. 6). Plastids moved along such elongated cells at a rate of 1.3 µm s–1 (average over 40 s in the experiment shown in Fig. 6), while the plastids in the neighboring cells showed Brownian motion. The rapid motion is apparently driven by cytoplasmic streaming. In the observation in Fig. 6, plastids marked with 1, 2, 3 and 4 moved from the right (near the root tip) to the left (near the base), but reverse motion was also found in another cell of the identical vascular bundle. The elongated cells are associated with the vascular bundle, but we do not have conclusive identification of the cells. Although this is a study on the nucleoids, we describe this observation here because there is no description of such movement of plastids within such elongated cells. One of the main objectives of visualization of nucleoids is to follow the process of nucleoid partition during the division of the chloroplast. Fig. 7 shows images demonstrating dividing chloroplasts in young cotyledons (at the age of 4 d on agar medium) in the transformant lines A8-1 and P2-1. We used different lines expressing fusion proteins containing PEND sequences from different species. The A. thaliana sequence (homologous) was expressed at a higher level than the pea sequence (heterologous), as shown in Fig. 2, and comparison of these lines expressing different levels of PEND–GFP made us evaluate possible adverse effects, such as inhibition of plastid division, caused by the overexpression of such a DNA-binding protein within the chloroplast (compare Fig. 7D, F with E). Note that the contrast of the image in Fig. 7E was enhanced digitally, because the original fluorescence in P2-1 was very weak (Fig. 2A). However, no significant adverse effect of high level expression of PEND–GFP driven by the 35S promoter was detected in A8-1. We were able to record only static images showing the division of plastids in the present study. However, it is clear that the nucleoids became filamentous and formed a network at the early stage of division (Fig. 7G). The network of nucleoids was split, with one or two strands that connect the separating networks (Fig. 7G, H). Before the division was complete, the two clusters of nucleoid network were separated (Fig. 7I). Apparently, there were no nucleoids in the constriction region at this final stage of division. As a way of comparing dividing and non-dividing plastids, the images of plastids within the cell shown in Fig. 7F were picked up and arranged according to the progress of plastid division (Fig. 7J). Another series of images taken from a separate experiment is also shown in Fig. 7K. The large plastid is supposed to represent the plastid before division, and the pairs of small plastids placed side by side are supposed to represent plastids just after division. The nucleoids are present as distinct particles before and after the division, although the nucleoids are more or less elongated. Throughout the division process, the nucleoids or nucleoid network were present in the periphery of the chloroplast, which is consistent with the previous observation that the plastid nucleoids are attached to the envelope membrane in rapidly replicating chloroplasts (Miyamura et al. 1986, Sato et al. 1993).
!~MM~! Growth of Pisum sativum cv. Alaska (Sato et al. 1993) and preparation of protoplasts (Sato 1985) were performed as described previously. Seeds of A. thaliana (L.) ecotype Columbia were sown on rockwool and incubated with a solution that contained 0.05% Hyponex (Murakami Bussan Co., Tokyo, Japan) under continuous light (40 µmol–1 m–1 s–1) at 22°C. The plant expression plasmid, PEND–sGFP, which expresses the PEND N-terminus fused to GFP, was obtained as follows. The DNA fragments encoding the N-terminal region of PEND, from either pea, A. thaliana or B. napus (amino acids 1–88), were amplified from genomic DNA, using primers PeaPD2GFP1F (5′-ATGTCGACATCTCCAGTTCTAACGTCCCTCAATTCTCGCAA-3′), PeaPD2GFP2R (5′-ATCCATGGTAGCAGGACCCAATACCCTATTTTCTTGAATTACTTCCCG-3′), AraPD2GFP1F (5′-ATGTCGACTCCTCAGATGATAAGAATCACTCTTCG-3′), AraPD2GFP2R (5′-ATCCATGGCACCAGGACCAAGGACTCTATTTTCTTGGAT-3′), GSBF1GFP1F (5′-ATGTCGACGATGGCTCGTGAATTCTAATCTCT-3′) and GSBF1GFP2R (5′-ATCCATGGCAGTAGTACCAAGGACTCTATTTTCTTGGAT-3′), for amplification of pea, A. thaliana and B. napus PEND sequences, respectively. These DNA fragments were inserted into pGFP vector (Chiu et al. 1996), having the 35S promoter of cauliflower mosaic virus and the NOS terminator, as a SalI–NcoI fragment (see Fig. 1B). These plasmids (Fig. 1C shows only the results with the plasmid B11 having the B. napus sequence among various combinations) were introduced into protoplasts obtained from mature foliage leaves of 14-day-old pea seedlings by polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation adapted from the method used in mosses (Schaefer 1994, Nishiyama et al. 2000). One day after transformation, protoplast was examined under a fluorescence microscope. Expression constructs were made by replacing the GUS part of pBI121 with one of the PEND–GFP constructs (see Fig. 1B). Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain C58V or EHA105) was transformed with one of the PEND–GFP plasmids by electroporation. Bacteria were grown for 2 days in YEB medium at 28°C until the A600 reached 1.0. Flasks containing A. thaliana plants (6–8 weeks old) were inoculated with the bacterial culture (2 ml per 200 ml) in the infiltration medium containing 5% sucrose and 0.02% Silwet77 detergent, and were incubated at 28°C with agitation at 120 rpm Seedlings were recovered at 16 h post-inoculation and grown under normal growth condition. Seeds from plants inoculated with Agrobacterium were surface-sterilized for 15 min with 10% antiformin, 0.02% Triton X-100, for 2 min with 80% ethanol, and washed five times with sterile water. Then, they were resuspended in sterile 0.05% agar. Seed suspension was poured on agar-solidified media containing Murashige and Skoog salts (1× Murashige and Skoog salts, Wako Pure Chemicals, Osaka, Japan; 5 mM MES-KOH, pH 5.7, 1.5% sucrose, B5 vitamin, 0.8% agar) and were screened for plants expressing the transgene at 50 µM kanamycin. The following transformant lines were obtained: lines A8-1–A8-7, A. thaliana plants expressing A. thaliana PEND–GFP; lines P2-1–P2-22, A. thaliana plants expressing pea PEND–GFP. Protoplasts or plant tissues were examined under a fluorescence microscope (Olympus, model BX-60) with an IB filter cube for observation of the fluorescence of GFP. For observation of DNA, protoplasts were fixed with 1% paraformaldehyde and then counterstained with 1 µg ml–1 DAPI in TAN buffer (0.5 M sucrose, 0.5 mM EDTA, 1.2 mM spermidine, 7 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, 0.4 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 20 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.5; Nemoto et al. 1988) and examined with a WU filter cube. Images were recorded using a digital camera model DP70 (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan). For recording of chloroplast motion, a fluorescence image analysis system (Lumina Vision, Mitani Corporation, Tokyo, Japan) and a shutter controller (FSH-C, Sigma Kouki, Tokyo, Japan) were used with the DP70 camera. Mitochondria were located with a fluorescence probe MitoTracker (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, U.S.A.) as a counterstain. MitoTracker was used at a final concentration of 250 nM in the MS medium. The plants were suspended in the pre-warmed (22°C) MS medium containing 250 nM MitoTracker, and incubated for 60 min at 22°C. Then, the plants were washed by centrifugation and resuspension, and the fluorescence (red-orange) was examined. Images of plants were photographed with a common digital camera (model PowerShot S45, Canon Inc., Tokyo, Japan) operated through a PC using the RemoteCapture version 2.6 software (Canon Inc. Tokyo, Japan). Fluorescence images of plants were recorded with a fluorescence stereomicroscope (model MZ16FA, Leica Microsystems, Heerbrugg, Switzerland) with the GFP filter set. In this case, images were recorded with a CCD camera (model VB-7010, Keyence, Osaka, Japan). Immunoblot analysis was performed essentially as described previously using the mouse polyclonal antisera raised against the fusion protein GST–PD2zip (i.e. a fusion protein consisting of GST and the N-terminal region of pea PEND protein) as described previously (Sato et al. 1998).
