!~ABS~! A gene encoding a predicted mitochondrially targeted single-stranded DNA binding protein (mtSSB) was identified in the Arabidopsis thaliana genome sequence. This gene (At4g11060) codes for a protein of 201 amino acids, including a 28-residue putative mitochondrial targeting transit peptide. Protein sequence alignment shows high similarity between the mtSSB protein and single-stranded DNA binding proteins (SSB) from bacteria, including residues conserved for SSB function. Phylogenetic analysis indicates a close relationship between this protein and other mitochondrially targeted SSB proteins. The predicted targeting sequence was fused with the GFP coding region, and the organellar localization of the expressed fusion protein was determined. Specific targeting to mitochondria was observed in in-vitro import experiments and by transient expression of a GFP fusion construct in Arabidopsis leaves after microprojectile bombardment. The mature mtSSB coding region was overexpressed in Escherichia coli and the protein was purified for biochemical characterization. The purified protein binds single-stranded, but not double-stranded, DNA. MtSSB stimulates the homologous strand-exchange activity of E. coli RecA. These results indicate that mtSSB is a functional homologue of the E. coli SSB, and that it may play a role in mitochondrial DNA recombination.
!~RES~! A putative ssb gene homologue that encodes a 201-residue (22.2 kDa) preprotein with a predicted 28-residue mitochondrial transit peptide (At4g11060, termed mtSSB) was selected for detailed analysis. This protein shows high homology to SSB proteins from E. coli and a variety of other species (Fig. 1). A second SSB homologue with a putative mitochondrial transit peptide was also identified in the Arabidopsis genome sequence (At3g18580, termed mtSSB-2). Regions of significant homology between previously characterized SSB proteins and mtSSB include several identical amino acids that are known to be necessary for SSB function. The residues Trp-40, Trp-54, His-55, Phe-60 in the E. coli SSB correspond to Phe-106, Trp-122, His-123, His-128 in mtSSB. These two proteins also have acidic C-terminal ends (Fig. 1). [[FIGURE]]  In the E. coli SSB protein, amino acid residue His-55, corresponding to His-123 in mtSSB, is known to be involved in SSB subunit interactions (Meyer and Laine CITATION), in α-helix stabilization, and in determining the protein’s affinity for DNA (Meyer et al. CITATION). Amino acid residue Phe-60 in the E. coli SSB, corresponding to His-128 in mtSSB, is thought to be involved in DNA binding (Casas-Finet et al. CITATION). Alteration of Phe-60 to a His residue was found not to alter the structure of the bacterial SSB, as detected by NMR, although it did reduce binding to DNA (Bayer et al. CITATION). Amino acid residues Trp-40 and Trp-54, corresponding to Phe-106 and Trp-122 in mtSSB, are also thought to be involved in DNA binding. Analysis of mutants of the E. coli SSB protein has shown that Trp-54 is the more important residue of the two for ssDNA binding (Khamis et al. CITATION) and is responsible for the stabilization of protein-DNA complexes through stacking interactions with nucleotide bases (Khamis et al. CITATION). The importance of Trp-54 is emphasized by its conservation in both mtSSB proteins, while the Trp-40 residue has been altered to a phenylalanine in mtSSB. In the E. coli protein the region between amino acid residues Trp-54 and Phe-60 (corresponding to Trp-122 and His-128 in mtSSB) is predominantly hydrophobic and probably forms a cleft between these two important amino acids that will fit one or two stacked pyrimidine rings (Casas-Finet et al. CITATION). Five of the last 12 amino acids in the E. coli SSB protein are negatively charged, making the C-terminus highly acidic. Four of the last 16 amino acids in mtSSB are negatively charged. This region has been implicated in interactions with proteins involved in DNA metabolism (Lohman and Ferrari CITATION), but probably does not interact directly with RecA (Egner et al. CITATION). The acidic C-terminal end may modulate DNA binding (Sancar et al. CITATION), but this acidic region is frequently missing in the mitochondrially targeted SSB proteins of many eukaryotic organisms. E. coli SSB proteins without the acidic terminal domain demonstrate an increase in affinity for DNA and have enhanced helix-destabilizing ability (Williams et al. CITATION; Sancar et al. CITATION). Mitochondrially targeted SSB was predicted with high probability to be targeted to the mitochondrial matrix by the PSORT (0.810) and MitoP (0.8877) prediction programs. The mature (i.e., after removal of mitochondrial targeting sequences) mtSSB protein has an N-terminal extension compared to bacterial SSB proteins (Fig. 1). It also has a deletion near the C-terminal end, resulting in a total polypeptide length approximately equal to that of bacterial SSB proteins. It is unclear from the literature whether these differences at the ends of the protein would be expected to have any significant effect on SSB activity. It is possible that the extended N-terminal region may interact with other proteins or have some other specific role in function of this protein. The mtSSB gene shows a similar arrangement with respect to the approximate size and location of introns and exons as the mtSSB-2 gene, except that mtSSB has two more exons than mtSSB-2. This suggests that the two genes may have arisen from the same parent gene and that the mtSSB gene subsequently gained two introns during evolution (Fig. 2a). The close relationship between the two mtSSB genes is supported by ML phylogenetic analysis of a broad taxonomic sample of SSB homologues (Fig. 2b), which also supports the hypothesis that the plant mtSSB is closely related to other known mtSSB homologues. [[FIGURE]]  The amplified mitochondrial transit peptide region of Arabidopsis mtSSB (84 bp) encoding the predicted 28-amino acid transit peptide sequence was cloned into a GFP fusion vector to produce a TP-GFP. In vitro import studies with purified soybean mitochondria showed specific import of TP-GFP into mitochondria (Fig. 3a). A control experiment with the same protein indicated that the fusion protein is not imported into isolated chloroplasts (Fig. 3b). The red autofluorescence in Fig. 3b results from the chlorophyll in the chloroplasts and did not co-localize with GFP fluorescence. No fluorescence was detected in mitochondria incubated with GFP lacking a transit peptide (data not shown), demonstrating that a targeting sequence is necessary for the localization of GFP to mitochondria. [[FIGURE]]  To confirm mitochondrial localization of the GFP fusion, the pCAMBIA1302 vector containing an mtSSB TP-GFP fusion construct was introduced by microprojectile bombardment into expanded leaves of A. thaliana plants (ecotype Columbia). Green fluorescence was observed in mitochondria but not in chloroplasts or in the cytosol of cells bombarded with this construct (Fig. 4c, d). In control experiments with the pCAMBIA1302 vector lacking the mtSSB targeting sequence, GFP was localized randomly in the cytosol (data not shown). Separate bombardments using a construct encoding a targeting sequence from mtRecA previously demonstrated to be transported into mitochondria exclusively (Khazi et al. CITATION) (Fig. 4a, b) or a predicted chloroplast targeting sequence from a putative helicase confirmed specific localization of the products to mitochondria and chloroplasts, respectively (Fig. 4e, f), supporting the assumption that this system faithfully localizes proteins to their target organelles. The consistency between the results obtained from import into isolated organelles (Fig. 3) and transient expression of a fusion protein in Arabidopsis leaves (Fig. 4) strongly implies that the 28-residue N-terminal transit peptide sequence allows specific targeting of the protein to mitochondria. [[FIGURE]]  The recombinant mtSSB protein (lacking the 28-residue targeting presequence) was expressed in E. coli and purified (approximately 98% pure as determined by densitometric analysis of proteins separated by SDS-PAGE; data not shown). The purified protein was analyzed by EMSA to determine the affinity of recombinant mtSSB protein for ssDNA versus dsDNA. Recombinant mtSSB protein binds ssDNA, resulting in a similar shift of the DNA to that induced by the E. coli SSB protein (Fig. 5a, b). In the presence of 2 μg of the E. coli SSB, nearly all of the ssDNA was shifted (Fig. 5a, lane 4). A slightly lower proportion of ssDNA was shifted with 2 μg of mtSSB (Fig. 5a, lane 7), and the shift did not increase significantly in the presence of 4 μg mtSSB (Fig. 5a, lane 8). A second shifted band is observed with 1 μg mtSSB (Fig. 5a, lane 6), suggesting formation of an intermediate that is partially coated by the SSB. The results indicate that mtSSB has a slightly lower activity than the E. coli SSB, but the overall pattern and location of the shifted bands are similar, suggesting that the proteins have equivalent ssDNA binding activity. The protein was found to have no binding activity for dsDNA (Fig. 5b). [[FIGURE]]  The purified mtSSB protein was tested for its ability to stimulate the homologous strand exchange activity of E. coli RecA, analogous to the E. coli SSB (Fig. 6, lane 3). Increasing amounts of mtSSB added to in vitro reactions with E. coli RecA significantly stimulated strand exchange activity, as indicated by enhanced resolution of the joint molecule band (lanes 4–6). At high levels of mtSSB, a very clear band representing joint molecules is observed (Fig. 6, lane 6). A low level of strand invasion activity is present in the absence of any SSB (Fig. 6, lane 8), as expected due to the basal level of activity common for RecA proteins in the absence of SSB. However, while there is some unresolved DNA between the circular DNA and the joint-molecule band, the resulting joint molecules do not form a distinct band, indicating incomplete strand exchange (lane 8). These results are similar to those reported by Steffen and Bryant (CITATION) for the ability of an SSB protein from Streptococcus pneumoniae to stimulate the activity of E. coli RecA. [[FIGURE]]  This is the first time that a mitochondrial SSB protein has been shown to have similar properties to the E. coli SSB and to have the ability to stimulate E. coli RecA activity in vitro. Collectively, these results provide strong support for the identification of Arabidopsis mtSSB as a functional SSB protein targeted to mitochondria.
!~MM~! Putative mtssb genes (At4g11060 and At3g18580, hereafter termed mtSSB and mtSSB-2, respectively) were identified by a BLAST search of the Arabidopsis genome in the The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) database (http://www.arabidopsis.org). Analysis of the retrieved homologous sequences was performed using the CLUSTALW and Align X programs in Vector NTI (Informax). Potential transit peptides were predicted using the protein signal prediction programs PSORT (Nakai and Horton CITATION; Nakai CITATION; http://psort.nibb.ac.jp/), MitoP (Scharfe et al. CITATION; CITATION; http://www.mips.biochem.mpg.de/proj/medgen/mitop/) and ChloroP (Emmanuelsson et al. CITATION; http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP/). The EST clone was obtained from the Kazusa DNA Research Institute (Chiba, Japan) and the sequence was confirmed to be full-length. A broad sample of SSB gene sequences, both mitochondrial and non-mitochondrially targeted, were downloaded from GenBank. Each gene sequence was translated using AlignmentHelper software (http://inbio.byu.edu/faculty/dam83/cdm/; version 1.0; McClellan and Woolley CITATION). Protein sequences were aligned using CLUSTALW (version 1.83), and the results were used as a template for aligning the coding sequences using AlignmentHelper. Phylogenetic analyses were performed using a maximum-likelihood (ML) optimality criterion, implementing a HKY85+Γ model in PAUP* (version 4.0b10; Swofford CITATION) to find the most likely phylogenetic tree using a heuristic search. Branch support was determined using the Bayesian statistical approach implemented in MrBayes (version 3.0b4; Ronquist and Huelsenbeck CITATION) to calculate the posterior probability of each relationship. The 84-bp region encoding the predicted N-terminal transit peptide (28 residues) was amplified by PCR (sequences of primers are available upon request). The purified fragment was directionally cloned into pGFPuv (Clontech) to produce a sequence encoding the 28-amino acid N-terminal target peptide fused to the GFP coding region (pTP-GFP), and the sequence of the construct was confirmed. Top10 competent cells (Invitrogen) were transformed with pTP-GFP and cultured in LB medium with 50 μg/ml ampicillin for 16 h at 37°C. The cells were centrifuged at 6,000×g, and the pellet was resuspended in 30 ml of resuspension buffer (20 mM TRIS–HCl pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM EDTA). Cells were disrupted by sonication in an ice-bath for 20 min (4-s pulses at 20-s intervals) to obtain the crude protein extract. Intact cells and insoluble material were removed by centrifugation at 4°C for 30 min at 15,000×g. The transit peptide-GFP fusion protein (TP-GFP) from the fluorescent supernatant was enriched by precipitation with ammonium sulfate followed by organic extraction (Yakhnin et al. CITATION). Chloroplasts were isolated from 50 g of soybean leaves on a Percoll gradient according to the protocol given by Cline (http://www.hos.ufl.edu/clineweb/Protocols/PeaIsol.htm), and mitochondria were isolated from the same leaves according to the protocol of Leaver et al. (CITATION). Organelles were incubated with the enriched TP-GFP in import buffer (0.33 M sorbitol, 50 mM TRIS–HCl pH 8.0, 2 mM MgCl2, 2 mM ATP, 2 mM NADH, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT) for 30 min at 25°C. Samples were then treated with 100 μg/ml proteinase K for 20 min at 25°C. Organelles were re-isolated on Percoll gradients, washed twice with import buffer, and the final pellet was resuspended in 100 μl of import buffer. Fluorescence microscopy was used to visualize the samples at a magnification of 1,000× (Nikon E600). Standard fluorescein/rhodamine filter sets were used to scan the samples and to differentiate chloroplasts from mitochondria. The mtSSB targeting sequence was subcloned adjacent to the GFP coding region in the pCAMBIA1302 vector (Center for the Application of Molecular Biology to International Agriculture, Canberra, Australia) for plant transformation. As controls for organellar localization, separate pCAMBIA1302 constructs containing the mtRecA targeting sequence (Khazi et al. CITATION) and a predicted chloroplast targeting sequence from a putative helicase were fused to GFP and analyzed. Each construct (2 μg of DNA) was used to coat 10 mg of gold microcarriers (1 μm diameter), which were then introduced, using a helium pressure (1,100 psi) biolistic particle delivery system (BioRad) according the manufacturer’s instructions, into 6-week-old A. thaliana (ecotype Columbia) plants grown in tissue culture. After bombardment, the plants were incubated for 40 h at 23°C prior to imaging by confocal microscopy with a Leica TCS SP microscope, essentially as described by Wall et al. (CITATION). The region encoding the mature mtSSB protein (537 bp) was amplified by PCR (sequences of primers are available upon request), cloned into the pCRT7 TOPO-TA vector (Invitrogen), and the orientation of the gene insert was confirmed. This construct was designated pT7mtSSB, and contains a 6×His tag at the N-terminus of the expressed mtSSB. The recombinant mtSSB was expressed in BL21(DE3)pLysS One Shot E. coli cells (Invitrogen) and grown overnight in Super Broth (BD Biosciences). Cells were lysed and soluble proteins were extracted using BugBuster Protein Extraction Reagent (Novagen) with added Ready-lyse lysozyme (Epicenter) and Benzonase nuclease (Novagen) according to the manufacturers’ instructions. Soluble proteins were fractionated by electrophoresis on an SDS-PAGE gel (Invitrogen) and transferred to a PVDF membrane (Invitrogen). Recombinant protein was then visualized by Western analysis using the ProtoBlot II AP system (Promega) and a monoclonal antibody directed against the His tag (Oncogene). Cells were disrupted by freezing in liquid nitrogen, thawing on ice and sonicating for 20 min (4-s pulses at 20-s intervals). Recombinant mtSSB protein was enriched by 40% ammonium sulfate salt precipitation in potassium phosphate buffer. The precipitated proteins were resuspended and dialyzed overnight against sodium phosphate buffer (50 mM NaPO4, 500 mM NaCl, pH 7.8), using a method adapted from Ehn et al. (CITATION). The proteins were then loaded onto a nickel column (Invitrogen) and washed extensively with sodium phosphate buffer containing 10 mM imidazole. Purified mtSSB protein was isolated from the column using a 10–500 mM linear gradient of imidazole in sodium phosphate buffer. The protein concentration in each fraction was determined by spectrophotometry and samples were separated by SDS-PAGE, followed by staining by Coomassie Blue. The purified mtSSB protein was transferred to storage buffer [50 mM TRIS–HCl pH 7.4, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, 0.2 M NaCl, 50% (v/v) glycerol] using PD-10 desalting columns (Amersham Biosciences) and stored at −20°C. The affinity of the purified mtSSB protein for ssDNA was determined using EMSAs (Pierce) as described by Reddy et al. (CITATION). A 45-nt single-stranded oligonucleotide was labeled at the 3′ end with biotinylated CTP (Pierce) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Commercially available E. coli SSB protein (0, 0.02, 0.2 or 2 μg) or purified recombinant mtSSB protein (0, 1, 2 or 4 μg) was added to 750 attomoles of biotin-labeled oligonucleotide and the mixture was incubated at room temperature for 10 min. Separate reactions were carried out in the presence of a 60-bp dsDNA (control fragment from Pierce EMSA kit) to determine if the mobility shift was specific for ssDNA. Binding reaction products were separated by electrophoresis in a 5% native polyacrylamide gel in 0.5×TBE (BioRad) and transferred to a nylon membrane (BioRad). DNA bands were visualized using streptavidin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase. In vitro strand exchange experiments using E. coli RecA (Promega) and E. coli SSB or purified mtSSB were conducted following precisely the order and timing of addition of components described by Steffen and Bryant (CITATION). Substrates were supercoiled, double-stranded pUC19 DNA and linear, single-stranded pUC19 DNA, which was prepared by restricting pUC19 with PstI and EcoRI, followed by treatment with exonuclease III to selectively degrade one strand from the 3′ recessed end. Reactions were incubated for a total of 1 h, and then the DNA was recovered and fractionated by electrophoresis in a 0.8% agarose gel, followed by staining with 0.5 μg/ml ethidium bromide and visualization of the bands.
