!~ABS~! Within the leaf of an angiosperm, the vascular system is constructed in a complex network pattern called venation. The formation of this vein pattern has been widely studied as a paradigm of tissue pattern formation in plants. To elucidate the molecular mechanism controlling the vein patterning process, we previously isolated Arabidopsis mutants van1 to van7, which show a discontinuous vein pattern. Here we report the phenotypic analysis of the van3 mutant in relation to auxin signaling and polar transport, and the molecular characterization of the VAN3 gene and protein. Double mutant analyses with pin1, emb30-7/gn and mp, and physiological analyses using the auxin-inducible marker DR5::GUS and an auxin transport inhibitor indicated that VAN3 may be involved in auxin signal transduction, but not in polar auxin transport. Positional cloning identified VAN3 as a gene that encodes an adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-ribosylation factor-guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) activating protein (ARF–GAP). It resembles animal ACAPs and contains four domains: a BAR (BIN/amphiphysin/RVS) domain, a pleckstrin homology (PH) domain, an ARF–GAP domain and an ankyrin (ANK)-repeat domain. Recombinant VAN3 protein showed GTPase-activating activity and a specific affinity for phosphatidylinositols. This protein can self-associate through the N-terminal BAR domain in the yeast two-hybrid system. Subcellular localization analysis by double staining for Venus-tagged VAN3 and several green-fluorescent-protein-tagged intracellular markers indicated that VAN3 is located in a subpopulation of the trans-Golgi network (TGN). Our results indicate that the expression of this gene is induced by auxin and positively regulated by VAN3 itself, and that a specific ACAP type of ARF–GAP functions in vein pattern formation by regulating auxin signaling via a TGN-mediated vesicle transport system.
!~RES~! The cotyledon of Arabidopsis has a very simple vein pattern: one midvein and three or four lateral veins (Fig. 1A). Taking this pattern as an index, we isolated van1 to van7 mutants (CITATION). The van3 mutant has a discontinuous vascular network in cotyledons, with no significant effect on the overall architecture of the vascular pattern, and the leaves did not show obvious variability in their architecture within and between plants (Fig. 1B). In van3 rosette leaves, minor veins also show severe discontinuity (Fig. 1C,D), which varies from leaf to leaf.   [[FIGURE]] To understand the function of VAN3 in vascular pattern formation, we first examined the relationship between VAN3 and auxin by generating the double mutants van3 pin1, van3 emb30-7 and van3 mp. For this purpose, we used the phenotypes of weak alleles to detect genetic interaction easily. About half the pin1-3 seedlings produced fused cotyledons, and the midvein was occasionally furcated (Fig. 1E) (CITATION). In the van3 pin1-3 double mutant, about half the seedlings produced fused cotyledons, and the cotyledon contained a single or furcated midvein (Fig. 1F). The lateral veins of the cotyledons were fragmented in the van3 pin1-3 double mutant. This additive phenotype suggests that VAN3 and PIN1 could be independently responsible for vascular formation. About half the emb30-7 seedlings produced fused cotyledons similar to those of the pin1-3 mutant, and the emb30-7 cotyledons had irregularly concentrated vascular tissues (Fig. 1G) (CITATION). In the van3 emb30-7 double mutant, about half the seedlings produced fused cotyledons that contained a single midvein and fragmented lateral veins (Fig. 1H). Lateral veins of the van3 emb30-7 cotyledons were more fragmented than those of emb30-7, and no concentrated vascular tissues were observed. The architecture of the venation was similar to that of the van3 mutant. Rosette leaves of the emb30-7 mutant have concentrated vascular tissues with an increased number of trachery elements (TEs). This phenotype was also observed in rosette leaves treated with an auxin transport inhibitor (Fig. 1I, Fig. 2A-D). The van3 emb30-7 double mutant produced rosette leaves similar to those of the van3 mutant (Fig. 1D,J), suggesting that the concentrated vascular pattern induced in the emb30 mutant is suppressed by the van3 mutation.   [[FIGURE]] The MP gene encodes an auxin response factor that mediates auxin signaling, IAA24/ARF5. To examine the genetic interaction between the van3 and mp mutations, we generated van3 mp double mutants. The mp mutants usually produce a secondary vein in the cotyledons (Fig. 1K), whereas the double mutants did not. In an extreme case, no midvein was formed (Fig. 1L). These results suggest that the VAN3 mutation enhances the effects of the MP mutation. To further investigate the relationship between VAN3 function and polar auxin transport in vein pattern formation, we treated the van3 plants with the auxin transport inhibitor, N-1-naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA). In the first-node leaves of wild-type plants, vascular differentiation was enhanced along the entire lamina margin, and the marginal vascular tissues were connected to the central vascular tissues with an increased number of non-branched vascular tissues (Fig. 2A-D). These effects depended on NPA concentration (Fig. 2A-D) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In the first-node leaves of the van3 mutant grown with NPA, vascular formation was enhanced and the vasculature was fragmented. However, the overall pattern was the same as that of wild-type plants treated with NPA (Fig. 2E-H, most obvious in F). Similar effects were observed in the van3 leaves treated with 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid (TIBA) (data not shown). These results suggest that the effects of the auxin transport inhibitor and the VAN3 mutation are additive in the formation of the venation pattern in the Arabidopsis leaf. Thereafter, VAN3 probably acts independently of polar auxin transport in vascular pattern formation, although we cannot exclude the possibility that VAN3 functions in the polar auxin transport system. Brefeldin A (BFA) prevents the polarized transport of PIN1 protein to the plasma membrane by inhibiting the activation of GNOM ARF–GEF (CITATION). In wild-type plants grown with BFA, the size of the first-node leaf was reduced, and the vein pattern was simplified in a BFA-concentration-dependent manner (Fig. 2I-L). TEs were also excessively differentiated in the upper part of the leaf margin, but not in the central region treated with BFA (Fig. 2K,L). After treatment with 20 μM BFA, tertiary veins occasionally developed discontinuously (Fig. 2L). In the van3 mutant treated with BFA, secondary and tertiary veins were missing and excess vascular formation seemed to be suppressed (Fig. 2M-P). To understand the effect of the VAN3 mutation on auxin distribution, we examined the expression pattern of the DR5::GUS construct as a marker of auxin accumulation. In the first-node leaves of wild-type seedlings, GUS staining was observed as a dotted pattern in the hydathodes and developing minor veins (Fig. 3A-E). Each dot represented a cell or a few cells, and their shapes varied from round and oval to elongated (Fig. 3E). In the van3 mutant, the GUS staining pattern in developing leaves was similar to that of the wild-type (Fig. 3F-J). However, the number of GUS-expressing spots was significantly reduced [wild type: 46.7±3.8/mm2 of leaf (n=24); van3: 5.8±2.3/mm2 of leaf (n=18); values represent means± s.e.m.]. These results suggest a reduction in the number of auxin-accumulating cells and/or a reduction in auxin sensitivity.   [[FIGURE]] To investigate the role of VAN3 in the auxin response, we examined the expression pattern of the DR5::GUS construct in the van3 mutant treated with auxin. In the cotyledons of wild-type seedlings, expression of the ectopic DR5::GUS marker was induced by exogenously applied auxin (Fig. 3K-M,Q-S), whereas DR5::GUS expression in the van3 mutant was less sensitive to auxin (Fig. 3N-P,T-V). We also examined the auxin response in the van3 roots and hypocotyls by analyzing auxin-induced DR5 expression, the gravitropic response, callus formation and the inhibition of root elongation, as described by Geldner et al. (CITATION), Willemsen et al. (CITATION) and Hobbie et al. (CITATION), respectively. The responses were almost the same as those of wild-type plants (data not shown). These results suggest that the VAN3 gene may be responsible for the auxin response, at least in the cotyledons and rosette leaves. To gain further insight into the molecular nature of the VAN3 gene, we isolated it using a positional cloning method. The VAN3 locus was mapped to chromosome 5, in the 89 kb region between molecular markers T31B5c and T22N19c (Fig. 4A). We sequenced the genomic DNA of the Ler strain and the van3-1 mutant spanning 22 annotated open reading frames (ORFs) identified in this region, and found a point mutation only in ORF T31B5.120 (At5g13300). An 8.6 kb wild-type genomic fragment that includes 1.1 kb upstream from the putative transcription start site and 1.1 kb downstream from the putative transcription termination site of this ORF complemented the discontinuous vascular phenotype of the van3 mutant (detailed in Materials and methods). We identified ORF At5g13300 as the VAN3 gene.   [[FIGURE]] The VAN3 gene encodes a protein of 827 amino acids, and the Trp at codon 356 is changed to a stop codon in the van3-1 mutant (Fig. 4B). The SMART system (http://smart.embl-heidelberg.de/) predicts the VAN3 protein to have four domains: a BAR (BIN/amphiphysin/RVS) domain, a pleckstrin homology (PH) domain, an ARF–GAP domain and three ankyrin (ANK) repeats. These domains are located at residues 11–218, 293–432, 501–643 and 728–826, respectively (Fig. 4B). The BAR domain is expected to mediate protein–protein interactions (CITATION), whereas the PH domain is known to mediate protein-lipid interactions (CITATION). The ARF–GAP domain contains a consensus zinc finger motif and functions in the stimulation of GTP hydrolysis (CITATION). ANK repeats are involved in protein-protein interactions and associate to form a higher-order structure. A homology search using the DNA Data Bank of Japan revealed significant sequence similarity between the putative VAN3 protein and the human ARF–GAPs with coiled-coil domains, ANK repeats and PH domains, ACAP1 (32% identical) and ACAP2 (33% identical) (CITATION). VAN3 has the same domain structure as ACAP1 and ACAP2 (Fig. 4B). The ARF–GAP domain is highly conserved between VAN3 and the ACAPs (Fig. 4C), suggesting that the VAN3 protein may function as an ARF–GAP. Many genes showing significant sequence similarities to the VAN3 gene were found in Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Anopheles gambiae, Mus musculus, Fugu rubripes, Drosophila melanogaster, Dictyostelium discoideum and Caenorhabditis elegans. In the Arabidopsis genome, three genes, At5g61980, At1g10870 and At1g60860, show significant sequence similarities to the VAN3 gene. The deduced amino acid sequences of these homologs are 47-62% identical to that of VAN3, and the domain structures of these proteins are the same as that of VAN3 (Fig. 4B). In particular, sequences of the BAR domains are strongly conserved between VAN3 and these predicted proteins (Fig. 4C). Next, we examined the effects of auxin on VAN3 expression in the cotyledons. We used RT–PCR because VAN3 and VAN3 homologs have high sequence similarity and probes specific to the 5′- and 3′-UTR regions of these genes did not give clear signals on northern analysis. The intensity of the PCR band corresponding to the VAN3 gene increased significantly with auxin treatment of wild-type cotyledons (Fig. 4D). In contrast, VAN3 gene expression level seems to be reduced by auxin treatment in the van3 mutant (Fig. 4D). This indicates that VAN3 expression is upregulated by auxin, and its auxin-dependent induction may be positively regulated by VAN3 itself. We examined the ARF–GAP activity of the VAN3 protein using an in vitro ARF–GAP assay. A glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion protein and type V VAN3 protein that lacked the BAR domain (Fig. 5D) were expressed in E. coli and purified. The hydrolysis of GTP on recombinant yeast Arf1p was measured with or without recombinant VAN3 protein. VAN3 protein induced GTP hydrolysis on yeast Arf1p in a concentration- and incubation-time-dependent manner (Fig. 5A,B). These results indicate that VAN3 protein functions as an ARF–GAP that regulates ARF cycling between the active ARF–GTP form and the inactive ARF–guanosine diphosphate (GDP) form in the vesicle transport pathway. The PH domain is found in a wide variety of signaling proteins and binds to phosphoinositides (CITATION). Furthermore, human ACAPs, which have significant sequence similarity to VAN3, are known to bind the lipid phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate [PtdIns(4,5)P2]. To determine whether the VAN3 protein binds to a lipid, we purified recombinant type V VAN3 protein (Fig. 5D) using affinity chromatography (data not shown). The ability of the recombinant VAN3 protein to bind different phospholipids was examined using fat western blotting, developed by Stevenson et al. (CITATION). Fig. 5C shows the results of fat western blotting probed with recombinant VAN3 protein. VAN3 bound to phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns), phosphatidylinositol 4-monophosphate (PtdIns4P) and PtdIns(4,5)P2, but not to phosphatidic acid (PA), phosphatidylcholine (PC), or phosphatidylethanolamine (PE). VAN3 bound to PtdIns4P with higher affinity than to PtdIns or PtdIns(4,5)P2. Recombinant GST protein did not bind to any of the lipids tested (data not shown). The BAR domain is known to mediate protein-protein interactions (CITATION). To determine whether the VAN3 protein forms a homodimer through the BAR domain, we performed yeast two-hybrid analyses. Eight types of VAN3 cDNA fragments were translationally fused to the GAL4 activation domain (AD) and/or GAL4 DNA-binding domain (DNA-BD) (Fig. 5D). Types I-VII were composed of the BAR domain (amino acids 17-221); the PH domain (amino acids 221-441); the GAP and C-terminal domains (amino acids 439-827); the BAR and PH domains (amino acids 17-431); the PH-C terminal domain (amino acids 221-827); the GAP domain (439-706); and the truncated BAR domain (1-85), respectively. As shown in Fig. 5D, when the intact BAR domain was used in the yeast two-hybrid analysis, protein-protein interactions were detected. This indicates that the BAR domain is required and is sufficient for the formation of the VAN3 homodimer. ARF–GAP is a key component in vesicle formation for membrane transport, so VAN3 protein is expected to locate to an organelle involved in the secretory system. Furthermore, human ACAPs are located in endosomes. GNOM ARF–GEF, which is involved in vascular formation, is also considered to function in endosomes. However, VAN3 and ACAPs have different binding affinities for lipids, and VAN3 and GNOM seem to act differently in vascular pattern formation and have different effects on auxin signaling. Therefore, we identified the subcellular location of VAN3 to better understand its function. VENUS (CITATION)-tagged VAN3 and green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged subcellular marker genes were co-introduced into Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells (Fig. 6A), and their subcellular locations were observed with a confocal laser scanning microscope. The location of VAN3–Venus did not overlap with that of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) marker HDEL–GFP (CITATION) or the Golgi body marker SYP31–GFP that marks the cis faces of Golgi stacks (CITATION). Furthermore, it also did not colocalize with the endosome marker, ARA6–GFP (Fig. 6B-D), ARA7–GFP and Vamp727–GFP (data not shown) (CITATION; CITATION). Nor did it colocalize with the lipophilic endocytic tracer FM4-64 (data not shown). We also examined the localization of VAN3–Venus in gnom suspension-cultured cells because cultured gnom cells contain abnormally enlarged endosomes that mediate the endosome–plasma membrane recycling of PIN1 (CITATION). The structure of the organelle in which the VAN3–Venus protein was located was completely different from the enlarged organelle that was stained with the endosome marker ARA7–GFP in cultured gnom cells (CITATION; CITATION) (Fig. 6E,F). This indicates that VAN3 is not located in the endosomes in which GNOM functions. However, VAN3–Venus-positive compartments overlapped with those of the TGN marker, SYP41–GFP (CITATION; CITATION) (Fig. 6G-I). These results indicate that the VAN3 protein is located in the TGN. Interestingly, not all the TGN was positive for VAN3–Venus. This unique localization pattern suggests that the TGN is not uniform, but is functionally differentiated in plant cells.   [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Landsberg erecta (Ler) strain of Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh was used as the wild-type, and the van3 (Ler) mutant was used in this study unless otherwise indicated. Mutants pin1-3 (Ler) (Bennette et al., 1995), emb30-7/gn (Ler) (CITATION), and mpT370 (Ler) (CITATION) were used for double mutant analyses. Surface-sterilized seeds were plated on growth medium (GM) containing Murashige and Skoog basal salts, 1.0% (w/v) sucrose, 0.05% (w/v) Mes (pH 5.7) and 0.3% (w/v) Phytagel (Sigma-Aldrich). Seeds were then transferred to a growth room at 22°C under continuous white light (20-50μ mol/m2/second). To generate double mutants of van3 with the pin1-3, emb30-7/gn or mpT370, plants heterozygous for van3 were crossed with plants heterozygous for pin1-3, emb30-7/gn or mpT370. Double mutants were identified within F2 families that segregated for each single mutant, and were distinguished by the presence of the distinct morphological features characteristic of each parental mutant phenotype. Furthermore, the genotypes of van3 emb30-7/gn and van3 mp double mutants were confirmed by cleaved amplified polymorphic sequences (CAPS; data not shown). In the double mutant combinations of van3 with pin1, and van3 with emb30-7/gn, mutants from each combination segregated at ratios of about 9:3:3:1 (WT:van3:pin1:van3 pin1 = 348:112:105:30, χ2 0.500, <P<0.750; WT:van3:emb30-7/gn:van3 emb30-7/gn = 339:89:93:30,χ 2 0.050, <P<0.100; WT:van3:mp:van3 mp = 236:76:90:28,χ 2 0.143, <P<0.504). Naphthalene acetic acid (NAA; Sigma-Aldrich), N-1-naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA; Tokyo Kasei Kogyo, Tokyo, Japan), and brefeldin A (BFA; Sigma-Aldrich) were used as 100 mM stock solutions in dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO). These chemicals were added to the autoclaved medium. For the analysis of DR5::GUS expression in van3 mutants, the van3 mutation was introduced into DR5::GUS transgenic plants by crossing. For histochemical analysis, GUS staining was performed as described by Koizumi et al. (CITATION), except that samples were incubated in the GUS substrate solution for 2 hours. Fixed samples were dehydrated through a graded ethanol series and embedded in Technovit 7100 resin (Heraeus Kulzer, Germany). Sections (6 μm) were cut with a microtome and observed under a light microscope equipped with Nomarski optics. The density of GUS-positive spots was measured using first-node leaves of 7-day-old seedlings. Leaves of about the same length (850-1,100 μm) were used. Spots and leaf area measurements were made after the specimens were photographed. For the analysis of the auxin response, cotyledons of 7-day-old seedlings and first-node leaves of 11-day-old plants were excised at the center. They were then incubated in 1 ml of liquid GM containing NAA for 6 hours, with subsequent histochemical detection. Total RNA was isolated as described previously (CITATION), and RT–PCR analysis to quantify the expression of auxin-inducible genes was performed according to the instructions for the Ready-To-Go RT–RCR Beads (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech), using a set of primers specific to the VAN3 gene: 5′-GCTCCTCTCACATACAAATT-3′ (forward), and 5′-GCTTTCTGGACAGAGAAATAGC-3′ (reverse). To detect the levels of control transcripts, we used ACT2 primers 5′-CTTCCTTGACTGCTTCTC-3′ (forward) and 5′-TCATCGTCACCACCTTCA-3′ (reverse). The VAN3 locus was mapped between the RCI1B and nga151 markers on chromosome 5 (CITATION). A number of new simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP) and CAPS markers between RCI1B and nga151 markers were developed from data obtained from the TAIR database and Cereon Genomics (data not shown). In the F2 generation produced from crosses between van3 heterozygotes (Ler) and Columbia, recombinants between the VAN3 locus and the new SSLP and CAPS loci were scored. From 1034 chromosomes, 784 were analyzed and the VAN3 locus was identified in the 89 kb region between the T31B5c and T22N19c markers. This corresponds to two adjoining bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones including 22 putative genes in the interval between the T31B5c and T22N19c markers (Arabidopsis Genome Initiative). These were PCR-amplified from the Ler strain and van3, and completely sequenced using the BigDye Terminator Cycle Sequencing Kit on an ABI PRISM 370 Genetic Analyzer. Among these putative genes, only the T31B5.120 (At5g13300) gene contained a mutation in a putative exon. An 8.6 kb XbaI-SpeI genomic DNA fragment that included the 1.1 kb upstream region of this gene and the 1.1 kb downstream region (position 51627-60181 of T31B5 BAC) was cloned into the vector pGreen 0179. The clone was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58 and transformed into plants carrying the heterozygous van3 mutation (van3-1/VAN3) using the floral dip method. After hygromycin selection, T2 seeds were collected from individual T1 plants and T2 lines were constructed. All T2 line seeds were grown with hygromycin and the segregation of resistance was examined. In the T2 line, plants presumed to carry single copies of T-DNA and a heterozygous van3 mutation segregated at ratios close to 15:1 (WT: van3 = 197:10,χ 2 0.250, <P<0.500). These results led us to conclude that the VAN3 gene corresponds to T31B5.120. Full-length VAN3 cDNA was isolated by RT–PCR from the A. thaliana Columbia ecotype, and an XhoI/NcoI restriction site was introduced at both ends. The fragment was translationally fused to the N terminus of Venus yellow fluorescent protein. The chimeric gene was subcloned under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the Nos terminator. 35S::ARA7–GFP (CITATION), 35S::ARA6–GFP (CITATION), 35S::HDEL–GFP (CITATION), 35S::SYP31 (CITATION), 35S::VAMP727–GFP, and 35S::SYP41–GFP were used as intracellular markers of early endosomes, late endosomes, ER, cis-Golgi, early endosomes and TNG, respectively. Double transient expression of 35::VAN3–Venus and of intracellular markers in the protoplasts of cultured Arabidopsis cells were analyzed as described by Ueda et al. (CITATION). Protoplasts from gnom mutant cells were prepared as described by Geldner et al. (CITATION). Fluorescence was observed by confocal laser microscopy (LSM510 META, Carl Zeiss). Myristoylated yeast ARF1p (myr–ARF1p) was purified from Escherichia coli co-transfected with expression vectors for ARF1p and yeast N-myristoyltransferase, as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). ARF–GAP activity was determined by an in vitro assay that measured a single round of GTP hydrolysis in recombinant myr–ARF1p (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Myr–ARFlp (5 μM) was first loaded with 5 μM [α-32P]GTP in ARF-loading buffer [25 mM Hepes (pH 7.5), 1 mM dithiothreitol, 2 mM ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), 1 mM MgCl2, 10 mM ATP, 3 mM dimyristoyl phosphatidylcholine and 0.1% sodium cholate]. The reaction was stopped with the addition of MgCl2 at a final concentration of 3 mM, and a GAP assay was performed at 30°C in 50 mM Hepes (pH 7.5), 4 mM MgCl2, 10 mM ATP, and recombinant VAN3. The reaction was initiated with the addition of 1μ M [α-32P]GTP-loaded ARF1p, and stopped with the addition of 250 mM EDTA. The medium was then placed on ice. Nucleotides were separated by thin-layer chromatography on poly(ethyleneimine)-cellulose sheets developed with 1 M LiCl and 1 M HCOOH. The sheets were dried, autoradiographed on an imaging plate, and quantitatively analyzed with a BioImaging Analyzer (BAS 2500, Fuji Photo Film). In the absence of ARF1p, VAN3 showed no GTP hydrolysis activity (data not shown). Phospholipids (Sigma-Aldrich) were prepared in chloroform as stock solutions at concentrations of 1 mg/ml. Solutions (10 μl) containing 0.5 or 1 μg of lipid were spotted individually onto nitrocellulose. The membrane and lipids were dried at room temperature for 1 hour, and the nitrocellulose was incubated with 3% (w/v) fatty-acid-free bovine serum albumin (isolated by cold ethanol precipitation; Sigma–Aldrich A-6003) in Tris-buffered saline–Tween 20 (TBST) solution [10 mM Tris (pH 8.0), 140 mM NaCl, 0.1% (v/v) Tween 20] for 1 hour. The membrane was then placed in a solution containing GST-tagged recombinant type V VAN3 fusion protein diluted in TBST (0.5 μg/ml) and incubated at 4°C overnight with shaking. The nitrocellulose was then washed with TBST three times for 10 minutes each and incubated with anti-VAN3 antibody diluted 1:2000 in TBST for 1 hour at room temperature. The membrane was then washed three times for 10 minutes each in TBST at room temperature and incubated for 1 hour at room temperature with goat anti-rabbit-IgG antibody conjugated with horseradish peroxidase, diluted 1:10000 in TBST. The nitrocellulose was washed again three times in TBST for 10 minutes each and incubated for 5 minutes in a 1:1 mixture of peroxidase substrate and luminol/enhancer (Pierce) for subsequent chemiluminescence detection. The nitrocellulose was exposed to Hyperfilm ECL (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) for 0.5-1 minute. The anti-VAN3 antibody was raised against a synthetic peptide encoded between the BAR and PH domains, EKMQEYKRQVDRESR, injected into a rabbit (Sawady Technology, Tokyo, Japan). A two-hybrid analysis was performed using the Matchmaker Two-Hybrid System 3 (Clonetech); pGADT7 was used for GAL4 AD and pGBKT7 was used for GAL4 DNA-BD. A standard complete yeast extract-peptone-dextrose medium was used for cell growth, and synthetic dextrose medium was used as the selective medium to which tryptophan, leucine, adenine and histidine were added as needed to final concentrations of 200 mg/l, 1 g/l, 200 mg/l and 200 mg/l, respectively. Protein-protein interactions were detected by yeast (strain AH109) viability on agar plates without adenine or histidine. Full-length VAN3 cDNA and seven types of truncated VAN3 cDNAs (Fig. 5D) were amplified using PCR, confirmed by sequencing, and cloned into pGADT7 and/or pGBKT7, as shown in Fig. 5D.   [[FIGURE]] The ORF of the VAN3 gene has been submitted to GenBank under accession number AB194395.
