!~ABS~! Although non-specific lipid transfer proteins (nsLTPs) are widely present in plants, their functions and regulations have not been fully understood. In this report, Arabidopsis nsLTP1 was cloned and expressed to investigate its binding to calmodulin (CaM). Gel overlay assays revealed that recombinant nsLTP1 bound to CaM in a calcium-independent manner. The association of nsLTP1 and CaM was corroborated using CaM–Sepharose beads to specifically isolate recombinant nsLTP1 from crude bacterial lysate. The CaM-binding site was mapped in nsLTP1 to the region of 69–80 amino acids. This region is highly conserved among plant nsLTPs, implicating that nsLTPs are a new family of CaM-binding proteins whose functions may be mediated by CaM signaling.
!~RES~! To characterize the CaM binding of plant nsLTP1, we designed a pair of specific primers for PCR amplification according to the mature Arabidopsis nsLTP1 sequence. As expected, a PCR product of 282bp corresponding to amino acids 27 to the end of nsLTP1 (signal peptide 1–26 amino acids were omitted) was obtained and cloned into the plasmid vector pET-32a(+). The recombinant plasimd was subjected to NcoI/XhoI restriction analysis. The length of the inset was in agreement with that of the PCR product. The pET-32a(+)-nsLTP1 construction was confirmed by DNA sequencing (CITATION ). Recombinant Trx-nsLTP1 was expressed from the plasmid pET-32a(+)-nsLTP1 in E. coli BL21 (DE3) trxB−. The protein was highly expressed upon the IPTG induction (CITATION A, lane 3) and affinity purified by a Ni2+-chelating Sepharose fast flow column. After the cleavage of the fusion protein by enterokinase, the Trx tag was bound and removed by the Ni2+-chelating Sepharose fast flow column, unbound nsLTP1 was retrieved from the flow-through. Purified nsLTP1 migrated at about 10kDa on SDS–PAGE (CITATIONA, lane 6). To probe CaM binding, 10μg nsLTP1 was resolved on SDS–PAGE to perform gel overlay assays with gold-labeled CaM. Results indicated that nsLTP1 bound to CaM in both the presence and absence of Ca2+, which were the addition of 1mM Ca2+ and 5mM EGTA, respectively (CITATIONB, lanes 3 and 4), even though the binding was relatively weak at the EGTA condition. This Ca2+-independent CaM-binding mode of nsLTP1 is in agreement with that of CaMBP-10 CITATION. To confirm the binding of Arabidopsis nsLTP1 to CaM, CaM–Sepharose beads were used to pull-down nsLTP1 from the nsLTP1-expressing bacterial lysate. CITATION A shows that a 10kDa protein was pulled-down specifically from the bacterial extract in both the presence and absence of Ca2+ (lanes 3 and 4). Further, this protein band was revealed as nsLTP1 on the anti-nsLTP1 Western blot (CITATIONB, lanes 2 and 3). This result strongly support the notion that nsLTP1 binds to CaM. Based on the results of CaM gel overlay assay and the pull-down assay, we attempt to conclude that the nsLTP1 is a new CaMBP that binds to CaM in a distinct Ca2+-independent mechanism, even though in the presence of EGTA, the binding is relatively weak. Since CaMBPs does not have any consensus CaM-binding sequence motif, it is difficult to predict the CaM-binding region at the amino acid sequence level. CaM is often found to interact with CaMBPs in the region comprising basic BAA or other sequence motifs, such as IQ motif, 1-8-14 motif and 1-5-10 motif CITATION. In the BAA structure, hydrophobic residues are segregated from hydrophilic residues along the helix CITATION. Online sequence analysis utilizing the Predict Protein program predicted a putative BAA structure between 45 and 58 amino acids of nsLTP1 (Reference predict_h15853), and no other sequence motif was found. To map the binding region of nsLTP1, nsLTP1 and three truncation or deletion constructs (1–68, 1–80 and ΔBAA) were generated (CITATION A) as described under Method. Bacterially expressed proteins were used for CaM gel overlay assays and CaM–Sepharose pull-down assay in both the presence and the absence of Ca2+. Results are shown in CITATIONB and C. nsLTP(1–80) and ΔBAA mutants exhibited CaM binding with similar affinities to the full-length nsLTP1 (CITATIONB, lanes 1, 2, and 4), whereas, the 1–68 mutant could not bind to CaM (CITATIONB, lane 3) in both the Ca2+ and EGTA conditions. Similarly, nsLTP(1–80) and ΔBAA mutants could be specifically pulled-down by CaM–Sepharose beads from the bacterial extract (CITATIONC, 1–80, ΔBAA), and the 1–68 mutant could not be pulled-down by the beads (CITATIONC, 1–68) in either condition (letters C and E in parentheses indicate Ca2+ and EGTA, respectively). It is worthy to note that in both experiments the binding was relatively weak in the presence of EGTA. CaM did not bind to any protein from the control bacterial lysate in which the empty pET-32a(+) vector was used instead of the pET-32a(+)-nsLTP1 plasmid (data not shown). Sequence analysis of nsLTP1 revealed that there are six hydrophobic residues, one charged residue, three polar residues and two glycine residues in the region of 69–80 amino acids. Comparing the nsLTP1 sequence to other plant nsLTPs, we found that nsLTPs have remarkable homology in this region, especially the hydrophobic residues Ile-70, Pro-71, Val-76, Ile-78, and the polar residue Cys-74 are conserved among nsLTPs (CITATION ). As CaM binds to its targets via the hydrophobic interaction, the conserved hydrophobic residues in this region may be involved in the CaM interaction in addition to their proposed function in the transport of fatty acids CITATION. In summary, we have acquired evidence to indicate nsLTP1 as a CaMBP and the CaM-binding region is conserved among nsLTPs. It is reasonable to extrapolate the results that plant nsLTPs are CaMBPs even though other nsLTPs were not tested in the CaM binding. Furthermore, the CaM-association of nsLTP1 was partially affected but not completely blocked by the absence of Ca2+, implying a complex mechanism of the Ca2+/CaM action on nsLTPs. Further mechanistic investigation of this action will facilitate the elucidation of the involvement of Ca2+/CaM signaling in nsLTPs’ functions.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana was grown at 22°C in a green house. The plasmid pET-32a(+) and Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) trxB− were purchased from Novagen. Bovine brain CaM and colloidal gold-labeling of CaM were prepared as previously described CITATION. Monoclonal antibody against Arabidopsis nsLTP1 and colloidal gold-labeling of the antibody were prepared as described in CITATION. CaM–Sepharose beads were prepared as described in CITATION. All other reagents were purchased from Sigma. Total RNA was isolated from Arabidopsis leaves by the modified method of acid guanidium thiocyanate–phenol–chloroform RNA extraction CITATION. Isolated RNA was treated with RNase-free DNase I (Promega) to remove contaminated genomic DNA. RNA quality was examined by electrophoresis in 1% agarose gels. In order to clone nsLTP1 by PCR, Arabidopsis cDNA was prepared from the extracted RNA using oligo(dT) as the primer. To remove the signal peptide (1–26 amino acids), mature nsLTP1 primers were designed according to its coding sequence (GenBank Accession No. AY049296): 5 ′ - CCATGG ̲ Nco I CGCTAAGCTGTGGCTCAGTTAAC - 3 ′ and 5 ′ - CTCGAG ̲ Xho I TCATCACCTCACGGTTTTGCA - 3 ′ . NcoI/XhoI restriction sites in pET-32a(+) were used for cloning. Full-length of mature nsLTP1 and three truncation or deletion mutants were constructed as follows: FT, for the full length of mature nsLTP1; nsLTP1(1–68), for the fragment of mature nsLTP1 1–68 amino acids; nsLTP1(1–80), for the fragment of mature nsLTP1(1–80) amino acids; and nsLTP1(ΔBAA), for the nsLTP1 construct with 45–58 amino acids deleted. The region of 45–58 amino acids was predicted to be a potential CaM-binding domain by sequence alignment with known amphiphilic α-helices (BAA) CaM-binding motifs. nsLTP1(1–68) and nsLTP1(1–80) were generated by PCR and subcloned into sites in pET-32a(+) for protein expression in bacteria. Deletion of 45–58 amino acids was performed using the overlapping extension PCR technique as described in CITATION with the primers of ΔBAA forward 5′-GGCTCTGGTCTCAACGCAGGCCGTGCAGC-3′ and ΔBAA reverse 5′-GCGTTGAGACCAGAGCCACGGTCTGGGGTCGTCTTGG-3′. The sequences were cloned in the vector pET-32a(+) and the constructs were verified by DNA sequencing. For nsLTP1 protein expression, plasmids were introduced into E. coli BL21(DE3) trxB−. After the induction of protein expression by 1mM IPTG for 3h at 37°C, bacteria were harvested and then resuspended in the cold binding buffer (100mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.9, 50mM imidazole, 2.5mM NaCl, and 0.05mM phenyl methylsulfonyl fluoride, PMSF). The bacterial suspension was sonicated on ice until it was no longer viscous and then centrifuged at 10000× g for 25min at 4°C to remove cell debris. The supernatant containing soluble fusion proteins Trx-nsLTP was applied to a Ni2+-chelating Sepharose fast flow column (Novagen) prewashed with the binding buffer. Protein purification on the Ni2+-chelating Sepharose fast flow column was carried out according to the manufacture’s protocol. Protein eluates were collected and dialyzed against the enterokinase buffer (20mM Tris–HCl, pH 8.0, 50mM NaCl, and 2mM CaCl2). To remove the thioredoxin fusion tag, the fusion proteins were treated with enterokinase for 16h at room temperature (RT). The resulting protein mixtures were dialyzed against binding buffer and then loaded onto the Ni2+-chelating Sepharose fast flow column to collect Trx-free nsLTP1 proteins in the flow-through. Collected proteins were dialyzed against deionized water before lyophilization. In CaM overlay assay, bacteria expressing nsLTP1 proteins were lysed in the enterokinase buffer by sonication. After clarification by centrifugation, the lysate was treated with enterokinase to cleave off the Trx tag from the expressed fusion proteins. Upon completion of the cleavage, the lysate containing 40μg proteins was applied to SDS–PAGE (12.5% gels) for the CaM overlay assay. The expressed nsLTP1 proteins were visualized by Coomassie blue staining. Protein quantification was performed with the Bradford method using γ-globulin as the standard. 10μg of recombinant nsLTP1 proteins was resolved by 12.5% SDS–PAGE and then electrotransferred onto nitrocellulose membranes. After being blocked for 1h in TBS (20mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.4 and 150mM NaCl) containing 0.05% Tween 20 and 1% fat-free milk powder, the membranes were incubated with colloidal gold-labeled CaM (A 520 =0.40) in the same buffer supplemented with either 1mM CaCl2 or 5mM ethyleneglycol-bis-(β-aminoethylether)-N,N,N′,N′-tetraacetic acid (EGTA) for 30min. The membranes were rigorously washed with deionized water before they were stained in the silver staining solution for 1min. CaM–Sepharose pull-down assays were carried out essentially as described in CITATION. Bacterial lysates containing recombinant nsLTP1 proteins were treated with enterokinase for 16h to remove the Trx tag. After dialysis in the CaM–Sepharose binding buffer (50mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.4, 200mM NaCl, 6M urea, 1mM CaCl2 or 5mM EGTA), 300μl of the lysates were mixed with 150μl CaM–Sepharose beads and the beads suspesions were incubated at RT for 1h with shaking. The beads were collected by brief centrifugation, washed for three times with the binding buffer, and then boiled for 5min in 60μl of the Laemmli sample buffer. Proteins from the boiled samples were analyzed on 12.5% SDS–PAGE to detect nsLTP1 using the monoclonal nsLTP1 antibody.
