!~ABS~! All eukaryotes have three nuclear DNA-dependent RNA polymerases, namely, Pol I, II, and III. Interestingly, plants have catalytic subunits for a fourth nuclear polymerase, Pol IV. Genetic and biochemical evidence indicates that Pol IV does not functionally overlap with Pol I, II, or III and is nonessential for viability. However, disruption of the Pol IV catalytic subunit genes NRPD1 or NRPD2 inhibits heterochromatin association into chromocenters, coincident with losses in cytosine methylation at pericentromeric 5S gene clusters and AtSN1 retroelements. Loss of CG, CNG, and CNN methylation in Pol IV mutants implicates a partnership between Pol IV and the methyltransferase responsible for RNA-directed de novo methylation. Consistent with this hypothesis, 5S gene and AtSN1 siRNAs are essentially eliminated in Pol IV mutants. The data suggest that Pol IV helps produce siRNAs that target de novo cytosine methylation events required for facultative heterochromatin formation and higher-order heterochromatin associations.
!~RES~! An unrooted phylogenetic tree of DNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RNAP) largest subunits (CITATIONA) reveals distinct clades for eubacteria, cyanobacteria and chloroplasts, archaea, DNA viruses, and eukaryotic RNA polymerases I (RPA1), II (RPB1), and III (RPC1). Arabidopsis thaliana (At) Pol I, II, and III largest subunits group with their orthologs from rice (Os), yeast (Sp and Sc), C. elegans (Ce), Drosophila (Dm), and human (Hs). Unlike other eukaryotes, Arabidopsis and rice have additional genes (NRPD1a and b) that form a clade for a putative Pol IV. An unrooted tree of RNAP second-largest subunits resembles the tree for the largest subunits (CITATIONB). Again, in addition to clades for RPA2 (Pol I), RPB2 (Pol II), and RPC2 (Pol III), a plant-specific NRPD2 (Pol IV) clade exists. In both Arabidopsis and rice, there are two NRPD2 genes (NRPD2a and NRPD2b) that were apparently duplicated after monocots and dicots diverged. Multiple alignments revealed that NRPD2 proteins closely resemble their Pol I–III homologs, whereas NRPD1 sequences frequently lack amino acids that are invariant in Pol I–III largest subunits, including amino acids near the active site (see CITATION in the CITATION available with this article online). Therefore, we focused our studies on NRPD2 but also subjected nrpd1a mutants to a subset of the same assays. NRPD1b was ignored because existing annotation suggested that this gene lacks essential C-terminal domains. Only NRPD2a appears to be expressed in Arabidopsis, based on existing EST (cDNA) sequences and by our inability to amplify NRPD2b RNA using RT-PCR or 5′ RACE. By contrast, NRPD2a sequences were readily amplified by PCR and by primer extension (CITATION) to yield a full-length mRNA sequence (GenBank accession number AY862891). Salk lines 046208, 109513, and 095689 contain the T-DNA-disrupted mutant alleles nrpd2a-2, nrpd2a-3, and nrpd2a-1, respectively. Salk lines 008535 and 128428 contain the nrpd2b-1 and nrpd1a-3 alleles (CITATIONC). Plants homozygous for these alleles were identified by PCR or Southern blot analysis of segregating families. The nrpd2a and nrpd1a alleles are all recessive and cause equivalent molecular phenotypes (data below and data not shown). RNA and protein blot analyses showed that NRPD2a is expressed throughout the plant but is most highly expressed in flowers and roots (data not shown). In homozygous nrpd2a-2 mutants, no NRPD2 protein is detectable (CITATIOND), indicating that nrpd2a-2 is a null allele. Immunolocalization of NRPD2 showed it to be a nuclear protein that is concentrated in numerous distinct foci (CITATIONE). Examination of 56 interphase nuclei revealed 10–15 NRPD2 signals in 71% of the nuclei and fewer than ten signals in 29% of the nuclei. In the nucleus shown, there are ten prominent DAPI-positive heterochromatic chromocenters, which are made up of centromeric repeats for the ten chromosomes, dispersed pericentromeric repeats, and four NORs (nucleolus organizer regions) (CITATION). Approximately 15 NRPD2 signals of varying size are apparent in CITATIONE, five of which are located at chromocenters and five of which are at the edges of chromocenters. Similar association of NRPD2 with chromocenters was observed in all nuclei. To rule out any possible functional redundancy of NRPD2a and NRPD2b, we generated lines homozygous for both the nrpd2a-2 and nrpd2b-1 alleles, which was laborious, because the genes are linked (∼10 cM genetic distance). We first crossed nrpd2a-2 and nrpd2b-1 homozygotes to generate F1 individuals that were hemizygous for each allele. The F1 was then outcrossed with a wild-type plant such that all resulting progeny had a wild-type chromosome 3 and either an nrpd2a-2 or an nrpd2b-1 allele but not both, unless a meiotic recombination event occurred between the two genes. We then identified the latter rare recombinants that had one wild-type chromosome 3 and one chromosome 3 bearing both the nrpd2a-2 and nrpd2b-1 alleles, allowed these to self-fertilize, and genotyped their progeny. Plants homozygous for both nrpd2a -2 and nrpd2b-1 (referred to as nrpd2 double mutants or simply nrpd2 in the remainder of the paper) were recovered, demonstrating that NRPD2 is nonessential for viability. Siblings that were homozygous for the wild-type NRPD2 gene were also identified and used as controls in subsequent assays. This genetic strategy is likely to have segregated away any potential T-DNAs unlinked to NRPD2, but, if such T-DNAs persist, they are as likely in the wild-type control plants as in their double mutant siblings. We tested whether NRPD2 might be functionally redundant with the NRPA2, NRPB2, or NRPC2 subunits of Pol I–III by asking if any of these subunits were nonessential. We identified hemizygous individuals bearing T-DNA insertions in NRPA2, NRPB2, or NRPC2 and genotyped 60–80 of their progeny. Only homozygous wild-type and hemizygous progeny were obtained; no homozygous mutants were recovered (data not shown). These results indicate that NRPA2, NRPB2, and NRPC2 are essential genes, unlike NRPD2a and NRPD2b, and that NRPD2 genes do not complement nrpa2, nrpb2, or nrpc2 mutations. The nrpd2 double mutation also failed to induce haploinsufficiency in plants hemizygous for nrpa2, nrpb2, or nrpc2 mutations, consistent with the interpretation that NRPD2 does not overlap functionally with Pol I, II, or III. Among Arabidopsis RNAP second-largest subunits, NRPD2 is most similar to NRPB2 (CITATIONA). Therefore, we asked if NRPD2 copurified with RNA Pol II activity, as might be expected if NRPD2 is an alternative Pol II subunit. Nuclear extract was fractionated by anion exchange chromatography, and fractions were tested for DNA-dependent RNA polymerase activity (CITATIONB) and for the presence of NRPD2, NRPB2, or a 24 kDa polymerase subunit (RPB5) that is shared by Pol I, II, and III (CITATION). The DNA-dependent RNA polymerase assay measures the incorporation of radioactive nucleotide triphosphates into RNA using sheared template DNA, which allows polymerase initiation from broken DNA ends in a promoter-independent fashion (CITATION). Duplicate reactions were performed with and without α-amanitin, a potent inhibitor of RNA Pol II, and mean values were plotted (CITATIONB). Comparison of the RNA polymerase activity profiles reveals a peak of activity that is inhibited by α-amanitin (fractions 29–37), indicative of Pol II (CITATIONB). As expected, NRPB2 eluted in these fractions (CITATIONC). By contrast, NRPD2 eluted in fractions 15–18, suggesting that NRPD2 is not an alternative Pol II subunit. Immunoblotting of column fractions using an antibody against the 24 kDa subunit that is shared by Pol I, II, and III revealed a good correspondence between the presence of the 24 kDa subunit and RNAP activity. Surprisingly, the peak fractions for NRPD2a displayed no detectable RNAP activity. We conclude that NRPD2 is not an alternative subunit of a conventional DNA-dependent RNA polymerase. In nrpd2 mutants, we noted an increased number and decreased size of DAPI-positive heterochromatic foci in interphase nuclei relative to wild-type siblings (CITATIONE), prompting further investigation. Histone H3 dimethylated on lysine 9 (H3dimethylK9) is a marker of heterochromatin (CITATION) that colocalizes with chromocenters in wild-type nuclei (CITATIONA). However, in nrpd2 mutant siblings, the H3dimethylK9 signals are dispersed and colocalize with the numerous, small DAPI-positive foci (CITATIONA; CITATION). Chromocenters involving NORs are relatively resistant to dispersal (CITATIONB). It is noteworthy that there are four NORs in a diploid nucleus, located at the tips of chromosomes 2 and 4. However, 36% of wild-type and 19% of nrpd2 interphase nuclei show only two NOR fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) signals (as in CITATIONB) due to association of pairs of NORs and their linked centromeres. Nuclei with either three or four NOR FISH signals are also observed in wild-type and nrpd2 mutants, but only nrpd2 mutants frequently (23%) show >4 NOR signals (CITATION), presumably due to dissociation of facultative heterochromatin subdomains of the ∼4 Mbp NORs. 5S rRNA gene repeats are tandemly arranged in pericentromeric regions of chromosomes 3, 4, and 5 in Arabidopsis ecotype Col-0 such that dual FISH typically reveals substantial overlap of 5S and 180 bp centromere repeat signals in wild-type cells (CITATIONC). However, in nrpd2 double mutant siblings, the 5S genes are typically decondensed and show significantly less (p = 0.0012) colocalization with centromeres, consistent with the interpretation that pericentromeric facultative heterochromatin is dispersed away from the constitutively heterochromatic centromeres (see CITATION for quantitation). Heterochromatin disruption and 5S gene dispersal in Pol IV mutants suggested a possible loss of cytosine methylation (CITATION). To determine if nrpd2 or nrpd1a mutants affect 5S gene cytosine methylation, we performed Southern blotting using methylation-sensitive restriction endonucleases. HpaII and MspI cut CCGG motifs, but HpaII will not cut if the inner C is methylated, and MspI will not cut if the outer C is methylated (CITATION). HaeIII recognizes GGCC but won’t cut if the inner C is methylated. Digestion of 5S genes with these three enzymes reports on methylation at CG (HpaII), CNG (MspI), and CNN (in the ecotype Col-0, the 5S HaeIII site is a CNN site). The Southern blots reveal ladders of bands at ∼500 bp intervals (CITATIONA), the size of a 5S gene repeat (CITATION). High levels of methylation cause most of the hybridization signal to be near the top of the ladder, whereas loss of methylation results in more signal near the bottom. 5S gene methylation at HpaII, MspI, and HaeIII sites is decreased in nrpd1a-3 and nrpd2 mutants (CITATIONA, lanes 3, 5, 18, 20, 22, and 24) relative to their wild-type siblings (lanes 2, 4, 19, 21, 23, and 25), with HaeIII digestion showing the largest effect. Comparison of nrpd1 and nrpd2 to the DNA methylation mutants ddm1, met1, cmt3, and drm1drm2 showed that HpaII digestion of 5S genes in nrpd1 and nrpd2 mutants occurred to the same extent as in a drm1drm2 double mutant (compare lanes 3, 5, and 6) but to a lesser extent than in a ddm1 (lane 10) or met1 (lane 11) mutant. DRM2 is responsible for de novo methylation in all sequence contexts (CG, CNG, and CNN); DDM1 is involved in maintenance of methylation in all sequence contexts, and MET1 is primarily responsible for maintenance of CG methylation (reviewed in CITATION). DRM1 has no known function. CMT3 is primarily responsible for maintenance of CNG methylation, so a CMT3 mutant has little effect on HpaII digestion (lane 7) but has a profound effect on MspI digestion (lane 16). Collectively, the results indicate that Pol IV affects 5S gene methylation in all sequence contexts (CG, CNG, and CNN). Interestingly, the highly methylated 180 bp centromere repeats are unaffected by nrpd1 and nrpd2 mutations (CITATIONB), suggesting that Pol IV does not affect global cytosine methylation levels but acts on only a subset of methylated genomic sequences. Methylation of AtSN1, a well-characterized retroelement family (CITATION), was assayed using HaeIII digestion followed by PCR (CITATIONC) (CITATION). If HaeIII sites are methylated, the DNA is not cut and can be amplified. However, if CNN methylation is lost at any of three HaeIII sites (see diagram), HaeIII digestion precludes PCR amplification. In wild-type Col-0, Ler, or Ws (the genetic backgrounds for the mutants tested), AtSN1 elements are heavily methylated and resistant to HaeIII cleavage. Methylation is unaffected by met1 or cmt3 mutants but is substantially reduced in a drm1 drm2 double mutant, as expected for CNN methylation. HaeIII methylation is also disrupted in mutants of the heterochromatic siRNA pathway, including rdr2 (RNA-dependent RNA polymerase 2), hen1 (Hua enhancer 1), or dcl3 (Dicer-like 3), consistent with published results (CITATION). By contrast, AtSN1 methylation is not diminished in a mutant of DCL1, the dicer responsible for miRNA production. Importantly, AtSN1 methylation is also reduced in both nrpd1 and nrpd2 mutants. The loss of AtSN1 methylation in both siRNA pathway mutants and nrpd mutants suggests that Pol IV might also affect siRNAs. Consistent with this hypothesis, 5S gene and AtSN1 siRNAs are significantly reduced or eliminated in nrpd2 and nrpd1 mutants (CITATIOND and 4E) as in hen1, rdr2, drm, or ago4 mutants, confirming prior studies (CITATION). By contrast, mutations of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerases rdr1 or rdr6 (sgs2, also known as sde1) had no effect, though rdr6 is known to function in RNA silencing of transgenes (CITATION). Interestingly, 5S siRNA levels were actually increased in ddm1 and met1 mutants (CITATIOND), indicating that disrupted maintenance of cytosine methylation is not the explanation for loss of 5S siRNAs in nrpd1 and nrpd2 mutants. Importantly, miRNA levels are unaffected in nrpd mutants, as shown by comparison of miR163, 159, 164, 171, and 172 levels in mutant and wild-type siblings (CITATIONF), indicating that Pol IV acts only in the siRNA pathway and not in the miRNA pathway.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis mutants hen1-1, rdr2-1, dcl3-1, and dcl1-7 were provided by Jim Carrington. met1-1 was provided by Eric Richards. cmt3i11 was provided by Judith Bender. sgs2-1 (alias sde1; rdr6) was provided by Herve Vaucheret. Salk T-DNA insertion lines and other mutants were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC). RNA was isolated as described previously (CITATION). RNA blots were hybridized to a probe generated by random priming of the NRPD2a 5′ RACE cDNA product using standard methods (CITATION). For immunoblotting, plant tissue was homogenized in SDS sample buffer (125 mM Tris-HCl [pH 6.8], 2% SDS, 10% glycerol, and 0.7 M β-mercaptoethanol) and 40 μg of protein, determined using a BCA (bicinchoninic acid) protein assay kit (PIERCE), subjected to SDS-PAGE on a 7.5% gel, and electroblotted to a PVDF membrane. Anti-NRPD2 and anti-NRPB2 antisera were raised in rabbits against peptides DMDIDVKDLEEFEA and MEYNEYEPEEPQYVE of NRPD2a (At3g23780) and A. thaliana NRPB2 (At4g21710), respectively. Anti-Pol I+II+III rabbit antiserum was raised against peptide GDKFSSRHGQKG, which is conserved in Pol I, II, and III second-largest subunits. Sera were affinity purified using peptides covalently linked to NHS-activated Sepharose resin (Pharmacia Biotech). Columns were washed with 3–5 column volumes of PBS (pH 7.0), 0.05% Tween-20; antibodies were eluted using 0.1 M glycine-HCl (pH 3.0) neutralized by addition of Tris-HCl (pH 8.0) and stored at −80°C. Antisera were diluted 1:250 for probing immunoblots. The secondary antibody, diluted 1:5000, was peroxidase-linked donkey anti-rabbit IgG (Amersham). Immunoblots were visualized by chemiluminescence (ECL Western Blotting Detection kit; Amersham). T-DNA insertions in NRPD2a, NRPD2b, and NRPD1a were verified by PCR and sequencing using a T-DNA left border primer (5′-CGTCCGCAATGTGTTATTAAG-3′) and primers specific for NRPD2a, NRPD2b, or NRPD1a as suggested by the suppliers of the Salk lines. Screening by Southern blot analysis was according to standard methods (CITATION). Arabidopsis plants were grown for 10 days at 25°C in 3 liter flasks containing 1 liter of liquid 1× Gamborg B5 medium, 1× Gamborg vitamins (Sigma), and 2% sucrose shaken at moderate speed. Tissue (200 g) was homogenized, and crude nuclear proteins were fractionated by DEAE-Sepharose chromatography and tested for RNA polymerase activity as described previously (CITATION). RNAP subunits were identified by blastp searches using E. coli RPOC and RPOB, S. cerevisiae RPB1 and RPB2, and A. thaliana NRPD1a and NRPD2a protein sequences. Sequences were aligned, using Clustal X (version 1.81). Conserved sequences were highlighted using BOXSHADE. (http://bioweb.pasteur.fr/seqanal/interfaces/boxshade.html). Phylogenetic analysis was by the neighbor-joining method, with 1000 bootstrap replications, using PAUP (version 4.0b10). Genomic DNA (100 ng) was digested with HpaII, MspI, or HaeIII. Following agarose gel electrophoresis, DNA was blotted to uncharged nylon membranes. Probes were generated by random priming, and blots were hybridized using standard methods (CITATION). AtSN1 methylation assays used ~100 ng of DNA digested with HaeIII (or undigested for controls). Approximately 5% of digestion reaction DNA was then used for each PCR reaction. PCR conditions were 2 min at 94°C, followed by 35 cycles of 94°C for 30 s, 53°C for 30 s, and 72°C for 30 s. Primer sequences for AtSN1 were the following: 5′-ACTTAATTAGCACTCAAATTAAACAAAATAAGT-3′ and 5′-TTTAAACATAAGAAGAAGTTCCTTTTTCATCTAC-3′. The At2g19920 control was amplified using 5′-TCACCCGAACAGTTGGAAGAAGAG-3′ and 5′-GTGAGGAACCGGTCCATTATTGCT-3′. PCR products were subjected to agarose gel electrophoresis. Emerging leaves of 21-day-old plants were fixed in ethanol:acetic acid (3:1, v/v). Nuclei were prepared as described (CITATION). FISH using biotin-dUTP or digoxygenin-dUTP labeled 180 bp A. thaliana pericentromeric repeat, 5S gene or 45S rRNA gene intergenic spacer sequence probes was as described previously (CITATION). For immunolocalization experiments, nuclei were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde. H3dimethylK9 was localized using published methods (CITATION) with antibody purchased from Upstate Biotechnology. For NRPD2, slides were permeabilized with 10% DMSO, 3% NP-40 in PBS, before blocking with 1% BSA in PBS. Primary antibodies were diluted 1:100 in PBS, 1% BSA, and slides were incubated overnight at 4°C. Secondary antibodies were conjugated to rhodamine or fluorescein (Sigma). Chromatin was counterstained with DAPI in antifade buffer (Vector Laboratories). Nuclei were examined using a Nikon Eclipse E600 epifluorescence microscope and images collected using a Q-Imaging Retiga EX digital camera. RNA was isolated using the mirVana miRNA isolation kit (Ambion). RNA (2–6 μg) was resolved by denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis on a 20% (w/v) gel. Gels were electroblotted (20 mA/cm2 for 2 hr) to Magnacharge nylon membranes (0.22 μm; Osmonics) using a semidry transfer apparatus. An end-labeled RNA ladder was used as a molecular weight marker (Decade Marker System, Ambion). The AtSN1 riboprobe was synthesized from a NdeI-linearized plasmid DNA template (CITATION). All other riboprobes were generated according to the mirVana probe construction kit (Ambion) using oligonucleotides specific for a given small RNA and labeling by T7 polymerase transcription in the presence of α-32P CTP. DNA oligonucleotides for 5S and miRNA probes were the following: siR1003T7 (5S) (5′-AGACCGTGAGGCCAAACTTGGCATcctgtctc-3′; small letters are complementary to the T7 promoter oligonucleotide), miR159T7 (5′-TTTGGATTGAAGGGAGCTCTAcctgtctc-3′), miR163T7 (5′-TTGAAGAGGACTTGGAACTTCGATcctgtctc-3′), and miR164T7 (5′-TGGAGAAGCAGGGCACGTGCAcctgtctc-3′). Unincorporated nucleotides were removed using Performa DTR Gel Filtration Cartridges (Edgebiosystems). Blot hybridization was in 50% formamide, 0.25 M Na2HPO4 (pH 7.2), 0.25 M NaCl, 7% SDS at 42°C (14–16 hr) followed by two 15 min washes at 37°C in 2× SSC, two 15 min washes at 37°C in 2× SSC, 0.1% SDS, and a 10 min wash in 0.5× SSC, 1% SDS.
