!~ABS~! Coordinating growth and communication between adjacent cells is a critical yet poorly understood aspect of tissue development and organ morphogenesis. We report a Rho GTPase signaling network underlying the jigsaw puzzle appearance of Arabidopsis leaf pavement cells, in which localized outgrowth in one cell is coordinated with localized inhibition of outgrowth of the adjacent cell to form interdigitating lobes and indentations. Locally activated ROP2, a Rho-related GTPase from plants, activates RIC4 to promote the assembly of cortical actin microfilaments required for localized outgrowth. Meanwhile, ROP2 inactivates another target RIC1, whose activity promotes well-ordered cortical microtubules. RIC1-dependent microtubule organization not only locally inhibits outgrowth but in turn suppresses ROP2 activation in the indentation zones. Thus, outgrowth-promoting ROP2 and outgrowth-inhibiting RIC1 pathways antagonize each other. We propose that the counteractivity of these two pathways demarcates outgrowing and indenting cortical domains, coordinating a process that gives rise to interdigitations between adjacent pavement cells.
!~RES~! We first determined that ROP2 and ROP4, which share 97% amino acid identity and are both expressed in leaves (CITATION), are functionally redundant in controlling pavement cell shape. A rop4 knockout mutant (rop4-1) had only a weak cell shape phenotype, and a ROP2 RNAi (R2i) line generated a slightly stronger but still moderate defect (see CITATION in the Supplemental Data available with this article online). Expressing ROP2 RNAi (R2i-34) in the rop4-1 mutant dramatically reduced neck expansion and lobe outgrowth (CITATIONB and 1C). In the rop4-1, R2i-34 line, the formation of fine cortical MFs, as visualized by transient expression of GFP-mTalin (CITATION), was impaired. Fine cortical MFs were patchily localized to likely outgrowing regions of the cell cortex in wild-type (wt) pavement cells (CITATIOND) but were barely detectable in most rop4-1,R2i-34 pavement cells, as seen in DN-rop2 cells (CITATION). Cytoplasmic MF bundles in the rop4-1,R2i-34 cells were similar in appearance or more extensive and thicker than those in control cells, indicating that the elimination of fine cortical MFs in the mutant was not caused by lower GFP-mTalin expression levels. We conclude that ROP2 and ROP4 (ROP2/4) activities specifically promote the formation of fine cortical MFs. To analyze the effect of ROP2/4 on cortical MTs, we crossed the rop4-1,R2i-34 line to a GFP-tubulin line (CITATION). We compared cortical MTs between a control line (homozygous for GFP-tubulin) and a line homozygous for GFP-tubulin, rop4-1, and R2i-34. In stage I cells, the rop4-1,R2i-34 line had more and thicker MT bundles than controls (data not shown). In stage II control cells, transversely ordered cortical MTs are only associated with the neck regions (CITATION). In contrast, abundant and thick transverse cortical MTs were found throughout the whole length of stage II rop4-1,R2i-34 cells (CITATIONE). Thus, ROP2/4 proteins suppress the formation of well-ordered cortical MT arrays in the early stages of pavement cell morphogenesis. Two possible mechanisms can explain the effects of loss of ROP2/4 function on both cortical MFs and MTs described above: (1) ROPs coordinately control two pathways respectively regulating MFs and MTs; and (2) a ROP pathway directly regulates one of the two cytoskeletal systems, which subsequently affects the other. To distinguish these possibilities, we sought to identify ROP2/4 target proteins. We previously identified a class of novel proteins as putative ROP targets from Arabidopsis, known as RICs (ROP-interactive CRIB motif-containing proteins (CITATION). We transiently expressed GFP-RICs to survey the subcellular localization of those RICs expressed in leaves and found that GFP-RIC1 displayed cortical MT-like localization. In young pavement cells, GFP-RIC1 was found at the plasma membrane (PM) as well as cortical structures resembling MTs (CITATIONA; CITATION). By contrast, in older cells, GFP-RIC1 almost exclusively exhibited cortical MT-like localization, with strong GFP-RIC1 dots found along the filaments. This is reminiscent of the localization of some MT-associated proteins (MAPs) (CITATION). We confirmed RIC1’s MT association in pavement cells using both live probes and immunolabeling strategies. Transiently expressed YFP-RIC1 colocalized with stably expressed GFP-tubulin, and MT depolymerization by oryzalin treatments abolished the filamentous pattern of YFP-RIC1 (CITATIONB). Double labeling cells with an anti-RIC1 antibody and anti-tubulin confirmed that native RIC1 is colocalized with cortical MTs in wt cells and is absent from ric1-1 knockout cells (CITATIONC). Cosedimentation experiments demonstrated that RIC1 partially associates with MT polymers in vitro (CITATION). Taken together, our results demonstrate that RIC1 is a novel MAP with a developmentally dependent distribution to both the PM and cortical MTs. To investigate whether RIC1 regulates cortical MT organization, we transiently coexpressed RIC1 and GFP-tubulin in tobacco BY-2 cells. These experiments suggested that RIC1 promoted GFP-tubulin incorporation into well-ordered cortical MTs (CITATION). To see if RIC1 promoted MT organization in Arabidopsis pavement cells, we generated RIC1-overexpressing lines (CITATIOND) and first tested how changing RIC1’s expression affected cell morphology. Low-level RIC1 overexpression (RIC1 OX-11) had no obvious effect on pavement cell shape (CITATIONE and 2G). As with the combined loss of ROP2 and ROP4 function (CITATIONE), moderate RIC1 overexpression (RIC1 OX-5) inhibited lobe formation and reduced the width of the neck regions (CITATIONE and 2G). Higher levels of RIC1 overexpression (RIC1 OX-3) completely suppressed lobe formation and generated elongated narrow cells with straight outlines (CITATIONG). These effects are distinct from those caused by CA-rop2 mutants (CITATION), which impair the formation of well-ordered MTs and generate wider than normal pavement cells with straight cell outlines (CITATIONF and 2G). Thus, RIC1 and ROP2/4 have an opposite effect on the spatial control of cell expansion, even though both affect the interdigitation process. RIC1 overexpression also dramatically altered MT organization in pavement cells (CITATIONH). As early as stage I, cortical MTs in the RIC1 OX-3 cells were more consistently transverse compared to those in wt cells and also appeared brighter, suggesting that RIC1 promotes MT bundling. In stage II RIC1 OX-3 cells, the cell cortex was densely packed with parallel cortical MTs aligned perpendicular to the elongation axis. In contrast, such highly organized MTs were mainly present in the forming neck regions in wt stage II cells (CITATION). Cortical MTs remained transverse and appeared to become more thickly bundled in stage III RIC1 OX-3 cells, whereas stage III wt cells contain randomly oriented cortical MTs (CITATIONH). Transient RIC1 overexpression in pavement cells rapidly induced apparent MT bundling and formation of well-ordered MTs before any detectable changes in cell shape (CITATION). Thus, through its association with MTs and ability to induce changes in MT organization independent of cell shape change, RIC1 promotes the establishment of well-ordered cortical MTs. We further explored RIC1 function by examining cell morphology and MT organization in ric1-1 and ric1-2 knockout mutants. Neither mutant had detectable RIC1 mRNA due to single T-DNA insertions in the third (ric1-1) and fourth (ric1-2) exons (CITATIONE). The two mutants had the same phenotype, and the ric1-1 phenotype is described here. The wt phenotype was restored in ric1-1 by expressing RIC1 cDNA (Figure S4), demonstrating that the ric1 phenotype was due to loss of RIC1 function. Although the cell shape change in ric1-1 was not large (CITATIONA versus CITATIONB), neck regions were significantly wider compared to wt cells (CITATIONF). There was no significant difference in lobe length (CITATIONG). (Note that the ric4-1 mutant and ric4-1/ric1-1 double mutant are included in CITATION for comparison with ric1 but will be described later.) Thus, the ric1-1 phenotype is opposite to the RIC1 overexpression phenotype and more similar to, though less severe than, the CA-rop2 phenotype. Compared to wt, stage I ric1-1 cells contained fewer and shorter cortical MTs and much more diffuse unincorporated GFP-tubulin (CITATIONH). In stage II ric1-1 cells, cortical MTs were fewer, apparently less bundled, and not as uniformly oriented as in wt cells. We conclude that RIC1 promotes well-ordered MT arrays in the neck region, consequently restricting lateral expansion to generate the narrow neck morphology of pavement cells. The above observations show that ROP2/4 and RIC1 have opposite actions in both cortical MT organization and cell morphogenesis. RIC1 is known to interact with the GTP bound, active form of ROP1 in vitro (CITATION). Thus, we postulated that activated ROP2/4 might bind to and inactivate RIC1. We used fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) analysis as an initial test of this hypothesis. As shown in CITATIONA, strong FRET signals were detected in cells coexpressing CFP-RIC1 with YFP-CA-rop2 (active form) but not with YFP-DN-rop2 (inactive form), confirming RIC1’s binding to the active but not the inactive form of ROPs. FRET signals in cells coexpressing CFP-RIC1 and YFP-CA-rop2 were primarily detected throughout the PM where CA-rop2 localizes (CITATION). Furthermore, CFP-RIC1 was depleted from cortical MTs when coexpressed with YFP-CA-rop2, but remained associated with cortical MTs when coexpressed with YFP-DN-rop2 (CITATIONA). These results suggest that PM-localized activated ROP2/4 may reduce RIC1’s association with cortical MTs by sequestering RIC1. To test this possibility, we investigated how loss of ROP function and CA-rop2 expression affected RIC1’s distribution patterns. In wt cells at stage I, GFP-RIC1 was distributed between the PM and cortical MTs (CITATIONB); at stage II, GFP-RIC1 was mostly localized to cortical MTs, with some fluorescence at PM regions (CITATIOND). In rop4-1,R2i-34 cells, the majority of GFP-RIC1 was localized to MTs at stage I (CITATIONC), and all GFP-RIC1 was distributed to MTs by stage II (CITATIONE). Furthermore, GFP-RIC1-decorated MTs were more numerous in the rop4-1,R2i-34 line than in wt. GFP-RIC1 distribution in DN-rop2 cells was similar to that in rop4-1,R2i-34 cells (data not shown). Thus, loss of ROP2/4 activity increased RIC1’s association with MTs. In contrast, in stage I–II pavement cells, in which ROP2 activity was maintained at a constant level in CA-rop2 transgenic plants (CITATION), GFP-RIC1’s association with MTs varied according to the level of transiently expressed GFP-RIC1 (CITATIONF–4H). When expression levels increased, as indicated by GFP fluorescence intensity, proportionately more of GFP-RIC1 became distributed to MTs. To further test whether activated ROP2 removes RIC1 from cortical MTs, we transiently coexpressed a fixed amount of GFP-RIC1 with variable amounts of CA-rop2. Increasing amounts of CA-rop2 caused more GFP-RIC1 to shift from cortical MTs to the PM; GFP-RIC1 was exclusively distributed at the PM in most cells transfected with the highest levels of CA-rop2 tested (CITATIONI–4K; Figure S5). In addition, we crossed the CA-rop2 line to the RIC1 OX-3 line. CA-rop2 expression partially suppressed the RIC1 inhibition of lateral expansion (CITATIONF and 2G). Taken together, these results clearly indicate that activated ROP2 sequesters RIC1 and, by removing it from cortical MTs, inhibits the establishment of well-ordered cortical MTs. Another ROP-interacting protein, RIC4, acts as a ROP1 target activating the assembly of apical MFs in pollen tubes (CITATION; Y. Gu et al., submitted). RIC4 is also expressed in leaves (CITATION), so we investigated whether RIC4 might be a ROP2/4 target activating the assembly of fine MFs at cortical patches in pavement cells. We first examined RIC4 distribution using GFP-RIC4, which is functional as wt RIC4 in the control of pollen tube growth (CITATION; Y. Gu et al., submitted). In contrast to the even cytoplasmic and nuclear distribution of GFP alone (CITATIOND), GFP-RIC4 was patchily distributed, primarily at the cell cortex, in a pattern suggestive of incipient lobes in stage I cells and to lobe tips in stage II cells (see arrows in CITATIONA and 5B). This localization pattern is dependent on ROP2/ROP4 activity, because it was eliminated in the rop4-1,R2i-34 line (CITATIONE and 5F) and by transient overexpression of DN-rop2 (data not shown). Finally, CA-rop2 expression caused GFP-RIC4 to distribute evenly throughout the whole cell cortex (CITATIONC and 5C′). FRET analysis also demonstrated that the RIC4 localization to potential incipient lobes and lobe tips may be the result of a direct interaction with activated ROP2/4. CFP-RIC4 strongly interacted with YFP-CA-rop2 in the cell cortex but not with YFP-DN-rop2 (CITATIONG). When wt ROP2 fused to YFP was used in the FRET assay, the CFP-RIC4/YFP-ROP2 FRET signal was patchily distributed in wt cells to presumed incipient lobes and lobe tips. Because RIC4 specifically interacts with active but not with inactive ROP2, these results strongly suggest that ROP2 is preferentially activated in the lobe-forming regions of the cell cortex. To analyze RIC4 function, we first examined the effect of RIC4 overexpression on MF organization. In the control, fine MFs were distributed throughout the cortex of early stage I cells and at incipient lobes and tips of expanding lobes in stage II cells (CITATIONH). RIC4 overexpression increased accumulation and distribution of fine MFs in about 80% (n = 55) of both stage I and stage II cells but did not alter the organization of the cytoplasmic MF bundles (CITATIONH; Figure S7). In a RIC4 knockdown mutant, ric4-1, which has reduced RIC4 mRNA levels (Y. Gu et al., submitted), pavement cells exhibited both narrower necks and shallower lobes (CITATIONC, 3F, and 3G), similar to loss-of-function rop mutants. Furthermore, the accumulation of fine cortical MFs was greatly reduced in 79% (n = 43) of ric4-1 cells (CITATIONH). RIC4 (RNAi)-induced suppression of RIC4 expression caused similar phenotypes, confirming that the ric4-1 mutation is responsible for the mutant phenotype (CITATION). Finally, we confirmed genetically that RIC4 acts downstream of ROP2. The ric4-1 mutation dramatically reduced the levels of fine cortical MFs generated by CA-rop2 expression (CITATION). Taken together, our results show that RIC4 is indeed a ROP2 target in leaf cells that promotes the assembly of fine cortical MFs required for lobe formation and lateral cell expansion. Since lobe expansion requires RIC4-dependent formation of fine cortical MFs, whereas RIC1 overexpression suppresses lobe expansion, we postulated that RIC1 might inactivate the RIC4-dependent outgrowth-promoting pathway. We first examined ROP2/4- and RIC4-mediated fine cortical MFs in the ric1-1 mutant and the RIC1 OX-3 line. Indeed, the quantity of fine cortical MFs was dramatically increased in 83% (n = 23) of ric1-1 stage I and II cells, but cortical MFs were absent in 90% (n = 44) of the RIC1 OX-3 stage I and II cells (CITATIONH). If RIC1 acts upstream of RIC4 to inhibit the assembly of cortical MFs, we would expect ric4-1 to be epistatic to ric1-1. Indeed, cell shape of the ric1-1,ric4-1 double mutant is identical to that of ric4-1 (CITATIONA–3G). To investigate whether RIC1 suppressed the RIC4-dependent pathway by inactivating ROP2/4 signaling, we assessed the effect of RIC1 expression on ROP2-RIC4 interaction using FRET analysis. Since RIC4 interacts with active but not inactive ROP2 (CITATION), the strength of ROP2-RIC4 interaction reflects ROP2 activity. In wt stage II pavement cells, the RIC4-ROP2 FRET signals had a patchy distribution pattern, consistent with the apparent sites of lobe development (CITATION ). In the ric1-1 stage II cells, the FRET signals were found throughout the cell cortex (CITATIONA). In contrast, in RIC1 OX-3 cells, the FRET signals were barely detectable anywhere. Semiquantitative analysis shows that the ric1-1 mutation and RIC1 overexpression clearly had an opposite effect on the overall amount of the ROP2-RIC4 interaction (CITATIONB). These results demonstrate that RIC1 can inhibit ROP2-RIC4 interaction in a spatially controlled manner. RIC1suppression of the ROP2-RIC4 interaction could be regulated through a direct competition between RIC1 and RIC4 for active ROP2, in which case MT disassembly would favor RIC1 release and the suppression of ROP2-RIC4 interaction. Alternatively, ROP2 activity could be regulated by some other MT-associated element(s), whose release from MTs may be regulated through RIC1’s promotion of cortical MT assembly. To distinguish these possibilities, we performed FRET analysis of ROP2-RIC4 interaction after depolymerizing MTs. For this, the RIC1OX-3 line, in which ROP2-RIC4 FRET signals are normally not detected, was treated with the MT destabilizing drug oryzalin. After 3 hr, MT polymers in RIC1OX-3 cells were severely disrupted, and FRET signals were significantly increased (CITATION). Longer treatment (7 hr) further increased the ROP2-RIC4 FRET signal (data not shown). The treatments also caused a dramatic increase in the quantity of fine cortical MFs, both in wt and RIC1OX-3 cells (CITATION), consistent with a role for cortical MTs in suppressing the ROP2-RIC4 pathway. We further tested the effect of disrupting cortical MTs on ROP2-RIC4 interaction using a temperature-sensitive mor1 mutant. These mutants were isolated in a screen for aberrant MT organization in pavement cells (CITATION) that identified MOR1 as a member of the XMAP215 family of MAPs. At the restrictive temperature, mor1-1 pavement cells showed severe fragmentation of cortical MT arrays and significantly increased ROP2-RIC4 FRET signals, whereas neither MT organization nor ROP2-RIC4 interaction was affected in wt cells at mor1-1’s restrictive temperature (Figure S9). This effect was reversible when mor1-1 plants were returned to the permissive temperature, demonstrating that it is the status of MT polymers that regulates ROP2-RIC4 interaction in pavement cells. By disassembling MTs by two different RIC1-independent mechanisms, we found that ROP-RIC4 interaction was enhanced. Thus, MT depolymerization is unlikely to significantly increase the amount of RIC1 available to compete with RIC4 binding to active ROP. This indicates that a MT-associated element other than RIC1 can stimulate ROP2 activation and that its sequestration by MTs is controlled by RIC1-mediated MT assembly. Collectively, our data indicate that RIC1 antagonizes the ROP2/RIC4-dependent pathway at least in part through its promotion of cortical MT organization.
!~MM~! A. thaliana ecotypes Col-0 and WS were used in this study. Transgenic plants expressing CA-rop2 and DN-rop2 mutant genes were described previously (CITATION). The GFP-α-tubulin transgenic line was kindly provided by Dr. T. Hashimoto (CITATION). Plants were grown at 22°C in soil with 16 hr light/8 hr dark cycles unless indicated otherwise. Plasmids used for transient expression were constructed in pBI221 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA). pBI221:GFP-mTalin and pBI221:CA-rop2 were as described (CITATION). RIC1 and RIC4 coding sequences (CITATION) were amplified and cloned into the BamHI and SacI sites of pBI221 to generate pBI221:RIC1 and pBI221:RIC4. The same RIC1 and RIC4 cDNAs were subcloned into pBI221:GFP (CITATION) to generate pBI221:GFP-RIC1 and pBI221:GFP-RIC4. For colocalization or FRET experiments, GFP from the above constructs was replaced with CFP. For YFP constructs, we used pBS35S:YFP provided by Dr. A. von Arnim. RIC1 was cloned into the BglII and SacI sites of pBS35S:YFP. ROP2 was cloned into the BglII and BamH1 sites of pBS35S:YFP. 35S:YFP fragment replaced 35S:GFP in pBI221:GFP-CA-rop2 and GFP-DN-rop2, generatingpBI221:YFP-CA-rop2 and pBI221:YFP-DN-rop2. To produce RIC1 overexpressing lines, 35S:RIC1 was cut from pBI221:RIC1 and cloned into pCambia3300 (pC3300) to generate pC3300:RIC1. The construct was introduced into A. thaliana ecotype Col-0 using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (CITATION). BASTA-resistant transgenic plants were selected, and homozygous lines were identified. We screened RIC1 T-DNA insertion mutants from the Wisconsin’s BASTA collection (CITATION). PCR and DNA gel blot analyses were performed to identify pools containing T-DNA insertions in RIC genes. Seeds for positive pools were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Columbus, OH), and single homozygous T-DNA insertion lines were identified from the pools by PCR analysis. The third true leaf (0.6–0.8 cm in length and 0.4–0.5 cm in width) from 2-week-old seedlings was used for phenotype analysis as described (CITATION). The width of neck regions and the length of lobes were measured as illustrated in the legend of CITATIONC. The measurements were consistently conducted on cells located in the midregion of the leaves of the same developmental stage. Each data set was from the measurement of at least 300 cells collected from three different leaves from three individual plants. For each leaf, four photos, each including at least 30 cells, were consistently taken in the midregion of the leaf. Consequently, the data were extremely reproducible. All plasmids were purified as described (CITATION). Routinely, 0.8 µg of pBI221:GFP-mTalin, pBI221:GFP-α-tubulin, pBI221:GFP-RIC1 (or pBI221:YFP-RIC1), pBI221:GFP-RIC4 constructs were used. For FRET analysis, 1.0 µg pBI221:CFP-RIC1 or pBI221:CFP-RIC4 and 0.65 µg pBS35:YFP-ROP2 or pBI221:YFP-CA-rop2/DN-rop2 constructs were used. For coexpression, 0.8 µg pBI221:GFP-RIC1 or pBI221:GFP-RIC4 with 0.5 µg pBI221:CA-rop2 were routinely used unless otherwise indicated. The particle bombardment procedure was described previously (CITATION). MFs were visualized using transiently expressed GFP-mTalin as described (CITATION). To visualize MTs in different mutant lines, they were crossed to the tubulin-GFP line (CITATION), and progenies homozygous for both the mutant gene and tubulin-GFP were analyzed using a Bio-Rad MRC-600 confocal laser scanning device as described previously (CITATION). Colocalization of YFP and CFP (or GFP) was performed using the Leica TCS SP2 confocal microscope, which allows flexible selection of emission bandwidths to minimize bleach-through. To colocalize MTs and RIC1, pavement cells in the tubulin-GFP line were transformed with YFP-RIC1 by the ballistics method (CITATION). Transformed cells were excited with 488 nm laser (power 20%) and 514 nm laser (50% power), and GFP and YFP signals were collected using 495–510 nm and 560–640 nm bandwidths, respectively. This setting did not completely eliminate the bleach-through of GFP signals to the YFP channel. However, any bleach-through signal was removed by adjusting the gain in the YFP channel against the tubulin-GFP background signal in neighboring nontransformed cells. For colocalization of CFP and YFP, 442 nm laser (power 15%) and 514 nm laser (power 15%) were used for excitation. CFP and YFP signals were collected using 465–490 nm and 560–640 nm bandwidths, respectively. For 3D reconstruction, optical sections were taken for each cell at 0.5–1.0 µm increments using the Leica software. Additional image analysis and processing were performed by MetaMorph 4.5 and Adobe Photoshop 5.5. For FRET analysis, pBI221:CFP-RIC1 or -RIC4 was transiently coexpressed with pBS35S:YFP-ROP2, pBI221:YFPCA-rop2, or -DN-rop2 in pavement cells. FRET analysis was performed 4–6 hr after particle bombardment unless otherwise indicated. Since expression levels for a specific pair of constructs varied among individual cells examined, over-/underflow function was applied to adjust the proper gain of CFP channel for each cell to avoid a saturating signal. Those cells in which the proper gain was found between 520 and 620 units (arbitrary units) were chosen to perform the FRET analysis. CFP (465–490 nm) and YFP (560–640 nm) images were simultaneously acquired prior to the acquisition of FRET images at the same focal plane to show the RIC4 and ROP2 localizations. FRET signals were consistently acquired using 15% power of the 442 nm laser for excitation and 560–640 nm for emission. The gain of the FRET channel was set 30 units lower than the CFP channel, which was based on the control experiments as described below. This setting sacrificed some FRET signals but effectively eliminated any bleach-through signals. To further confirm that the FRET signals were not due to bleach-through, we performed a large number of control experiments using pBI221:CFP-RIC1 or -RIC4 and pBS35S:YFP pairs. We found all cells (at least 15 cells for each control) that expressed CFP-RIC and YFP to the levels that fell into the above range and did not show any detectable signals using the setting as described above. For semiquantitative analysis of FRET signals, we standardized FRET signals with CFP signals, which were acquired simultaneously. This standardization obviates FRET signal variation resulting from different CFP expression levels among different cells. RIC1 fusion protein (to maltose binding protein, MBP) expressed in E. coli was purified and used to raise polyclonal antibodies in rabbits. The RIC1 polyclonal antibody was affinity purified using the recombinant MBP-RIC1 protein as described (CITATION). This antibody specifically detected signals along cortical MTs in wt but not in ric1-1 cells (CITATIONC). Immunostaining followed the procedure previously described (CITATION). Briefly, true leaves from 2-week-old plants were cut into 2 × 2 mm pieces, fixed, frozen, shattered, and permeabilized (CITATION). The fixed tissues were incubated with the primary antibodies (anti-RIC1, 1:100; mouse anti-α tubulin, 1:300, Sigma) and then the secondary antibodies (FITC-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG and TRITC-conjugated anti-mouse IgG, 1:200, Sigma). The samples were analyzed using the Leica SP2 confocal microscope system.
