!~ABS~! The study of the regulation and cellular dynamics of receptor kinase signaling in plants is a rapidly evolving field that promises to give enormous insights into the molecular control of signal perception. In this study, we have analyzed the behavior of the L1-specific receptor kinase ARABIDOPSIS CRINKLY4 (ACR4) from Arabidopsis thaliana in planta and have shown it to be present in two distinct compartments within cells. These represent protein export bodies and a population of internalized vesicles. In parallel, deletion analysis has shown that a predicted β-propeller–forming extracellular domain is necessary for ACR4 function. Nonfunctional ACR4 variants with deletions or point mutations in this domain behave differently to wild-type fusion protein in that they are not internalized to the same extent. In addition, in contrast with functional ACR4, which appears to be rapidly turned over, they are stabilized. Thus, for ACR4, internalization and turnover are linked and depend on functionality, suggesting that ACR4 signaling may be subject to damping down via internalization and degradation. The observed rapid turnover of ACR4 sets it apart from other recently studied plant receptor kinases. Finally, ACR4 kinase activity is not required for protein function, leading us to propose, by analogy to animal systems, that ACR4 may hetero-oligomerize with a kinase-active partner during signaling. Plant and animal receptor kinases have distinct evolutionary origins. However, with other recent work, our study suggests that there has been considerable convergent evolution between mechanisms used to regulate their activity.
!~RES~! The ACR4 protein is an RLK that is required for normal epidermal development and organization in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION). The acr4 mutant phenotype, which includes disorganized growth of ovule integuments and sepal margins, can be complemented by the introduction of the ACR4 open reading frame under the control of the ACR4 promoter. In addition, C-terminal fusions of green fluorescent protein (GFP) to ACR4 have been shown to complement the acr4 mutant phenotype and to produce protein that localizes to the plasma membranes of L1/epidermal cells in all shoot meristems, ovule integuments, and root primordia. Cytoplasmic bodies containing GFP were also observed in ACR4:GFP expressing roots (CITATION). Treatment with BFA led to the appearance of large GFP-containing bodies in the root cells of ACR4:GFP-expressing plants. BFA is a commonly used inhibitor of vesicle movement in both animals and plants and is thought to act by targeting and inhibiting the action of proteins involved in vesicle formation. BFA inhibits a subset of GDP/GTP guanine-nucleotide exchange factors (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). The exact basis for BFA effects is not clear for either animal or plant cells, and the effects of BFA seem to vary between different plant cell types. It is, however, widely accepted that BFA disrupts the trafficking of internalized vesicles in Arabidopsis root cells (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To understand further the nature of the cytoplasmic bodies observed in ACR4:GFP-expressing plants, colocalization studies were performed using the amphiphilic steryl dye FM4-64 (CITATION). FM4-64 inserts into one side of the plasma membrane bilayer and fluoresces only when in a hydrophobic environment. The amphiphilic nature of the dye means that it is thought only to be able to enter the cell via internalization of membrane vesicles. In our tests, plasma membranes in the epidermal meristematic regions of roots incubated in 17 μM FM4-64 were well labeled after 15 to 20 min, with internal vesicles clearly visible after 30 min. After 80 min, large parts of the endomembrane system and vacuolar membrane started to become visible, eventually obscuring the smaller vesicles (data not shown). Several authors have reported that extended treatment with FM4-64 can lead to labeling of vesicles derived from the Golgi apparatus and targeted to the plasma membrane or to vacuoles (CITATION). Because we wanted to distinguish between internalized plasma membrane–derived vesicles and vesicles derived from the endomembrane system, our observations were made in a window between 30 and 50 min after the start of treatment. Observations in small, unexpanded cells near to the root tip of plants carrying the ACR4:GFP construct and treated with FM4-64 showed the presence of two distinct populations of GFP-containing bodies, one labeled with FM4-64 and the other only with GFP (Figures 1A to 1C). Occasional colocalization of GFP fluorescence with FM4-64 labeling was observed, but GFP fluorescence in bodies showing colocalization was always considerably weaker than in GFP-only bodies. To determine whether the distribution and nature of bodies changed in more mature cell types, cells within the elongation zone (just distal to the zone where the bulges of root hair initiate) were also examined. In this zone, although GFP-only bodies were still observed, they appeared relatively less abundant than in more distal zones. However, many more of the FM4-64–labeled bodies also showed GFP fluorescence, although this was still weak compared with GFP-only–labeled bodies (Figures 1D to 1F). [[FIGURE]] Because we observe two independent populations of vesicles, we were intrigued as to whether these populations responded differently to treatment with BFA. Roots from plants expressing ACR4:GFP were treated with FM4-64 and 50 μM BFA or with FM4-64 and 0.5% DMS0 (control) for 1 h, and then the distribution of both GFP and FM4-64 were noted (Figures 1G to 1I). BFA had a considerably greater effect on FM4-64 distribution than on GFP distribution. Most cells contained relatively few small FM4-64 staining vesicles compared with controls and one to three very large cytoplasmic bodies, which were densely stained with FM4-64. These BFA-induced bodies were also found to contain GFP fluorescence (Figures 1G to 1I). Interestingly, GFP fluorescence was still observed in a population of very bright, small GFP-only bodies, which appeared identical to those observed in control cells. The intensity of GFP fluorescence in the BFA-induced bodies tended to be lower than that in the GFP-only staining bodies, especially in meristematic regions. It seems clear, therefore, that FM4-64–labeled compartments and GFP-only bodies behave very differently in the presence of BFA, with GFP-only bodies showing little or no perturbation in their behavior. One explanation for the presence of numerous and bright GFP-only bodies, with little or no sensitivity to BFA, is that these are outbound compartments delivering ACR4:GFP to the plasma membrane. To investigate this possibility, treatments with the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide were performed. Roots of ACR4:GFP-expressing plants were subjected to treatments with 30 μM cycloheximide. Roots were incubated for 1.5, 2.5, or 3.5 h in cycloheximide (Figures 1K to 1M). We observed a steady decrease in the intensity of GFP-only bodies over time compared with 0.1% ethanol controls (Figure 1J). By 2.5 h, there seemed to be an increased population of weakly marked GFP-only bodies and only a few bright bodies resembling those seen in control roots. By 3.5 h, the GFP-only bodies that could be observed were almost all only weakly fluorescent. In addition, membrane-associated GFP fluorescence intensity in these samples was generally lower than in control roots. To determine whether roots were capable of recovering from cycloheximide treatments, seedlings that had been treated with cycloheximide for 3.5 h were subjected to several washes in water, incubated in a large volume of water for 4 h, and observed (Figure 1N). Strongly fluorescing GFP-only bodies were once more observed in the cytoplasm of root epidermal cells. In many cases, these bodies appeared even more strongly fluorescent than in control plants. Because cycloheximide is a general protein transport inhibitor, the effects of cycloheximide might have been attributable to a disruption of protein trafficking in general. However, when FM4-64 was added to roots treated with cycloheximide for 3.5 h, internalized vesicle were observed after 20 to 30 min, as in noncycloheximide-treated controls, suggesting that membrane internalization at least is not noticeably inhibited by treatments of this length (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Our interpretation of the above results is that BFA-insensitive GFP-only bodies may represent outgoing compartments carrying freshly made ACR4:GFP to the membrane. Cycloheximide inhibits de novo ACR4:GFP synthesis, and this is visible as a gradual reduction in the fluorescence of GFP-only compartments. BFA-sensitive bodies showing colocalization of FM4-64 and weak GFP fluorescence probably represent internalized membrane vesicles. Several animal receptor kinases are subject to ligand binding–mediated internalization via BFA sensitive pathways. In some cases, this internalization leads to protein degradation, whereas in others, internalized proteins are recycled to the plasma membrane. To ascertain whether the ACR4:GFP protein is subject to cleavage or degradation, protein gel blots were performed with an anti-GFP polyclonal antibody using inflorescence material from plants carrying the PACR4:ACR4:GFP fusion construct. Surprisingly, full-length fusion protein (predicted Mr 125 kD) proved almost very difficult to detect (shown as part of Figure 6). Shorter protein products were often observed, but their lengths depended on the protein isolation conditions used (data not shown). The inability to detect full-length proteins appears not to be due to nonspecific protein degradation because other ACR4 variants expressed under the ACR4 promoter produced proteins that were easily detectable (results below). It therefore seems likely that ACR4:GFP is rapidly turned over at the membrane. Rapid degradation would be supported by the observed disparity in intensity of internalized vesicles compared with GFP-only labeling export bodies. To ascertain the roles of the various protein domains of ACR4 for protein function, localization, and turnover, a complementation approach was undertaken. A series of ACR4 derivatives (Figure 2) in which specific protein domains were deleted or modified were expressed from the ACR4 promoter in an acr4 null background (acr4-2). Constructs encoding identical protein derivatives fused C-terminally with GFP were transformed into wild-type and acr4 mutant plants to test localization. [[FIGURE]] The two major domains within the extracellular region of ACR4 are a domain consisting of seven repeats termed “crinkly repeats” (CITATION) and a domain with homology to the three Cys-rich repeats of the tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) extracellular domain. In construct ΔREPEAT, 4.5 of the 7 crinkly repeats had been deleted, and in construct ΔTNFR, the entire TNFR homology domain was removed. Constructs ΔREPEAT:GFP and ΔTNFR:GFP included C-terminal GFP fusions. Another construction, ΔTM/KIN/C-TER:GFP, in which the 39–amino acid repeats and TNFR homology region were retained, but the transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains were removed, was created to confirm that the crinkly repeat and TNFR homology domains were targeted to the extracellular space. Complementation studies were performed by transforming constructions directly into acr4-2 homozygous plants and screening for complementation in at least 20 T1 individuals. Complementation was confirmed in subsequent generations and was assessed based on silique filling and seed phenotype. Noncomplemented lines showed >40% ovule abortion, heterogeneous seed development including embryo/seed abortion at around the heart stage, and mature seeds with an irregular surface and an abnormal rounded shape, as previously described (CITATION). Partially complemented lines tended to show decreased ovule and/or seed abortion but maintained abnormal seed shape. Fully complemented lines showed full siliques, with wild-type–shaped seeds. Details are presented in Supplemental Figure 2 and Supplemental Table 1 online. Of the five mutant proteins expressed, only ΔTNFR and ΔTNFR:GFP were found to complement the acr4 mutant phenotype. ΔREPEAT:GFP and ΔTNFR:GFP were localized to the same membranes as the ACR4:GFP protein fusion, confirming that the lack of complementation by ΔREPEAT:GFP was not due to mislocalization. Interestingly, fluorescence in the membranes of ΔTNFR:GFP-expressing lines generally appeared slightly stronger than in ACR4:GFP lines, whereas fluorescence in ΔREPEAT:GFP lines was usually considerably stronger than that in ACR4:GFP lines (data not shown). Fluorescence in ΔTM/KIN/C-TER:GFP lines was not only stronger than in ACR4:GFP expressing lines but also localized to the cell wall rather than to the plasma membrane. Fluorescence signal appeared stronger in regions with a thicker wall, for example, at the corners of cells, suggesting that the protein might be relatively free to move within the apoplast. This was particularly obvious in developing ovules where protein accumulates in the large apoplastic compartments between the inner and outer cell layer of the outer integument (Figure 3). [[FIGURE]] These complementation studies suggest that the extracellularly localized crinkly repeat domain is necessary for ACR4 function. As previously reported, it is predicted to fold into a β-propeller type structure (CITATION; CITATION). A core C(X∼10)CWG sequence motif is highly conserved amongst the repeats. Modeling of the ACR4 extracellular crinkly repeats was undertaken based on the x-ray structures of (1) two seven-bladed β-propeller folds the β-Lactamase Inhibitor Protein-II (BLIP-II) from Streptomyces exfoliatus (CITATION) and (2) the Regulator of Chromosome Condensation (RCC1) from human (CITATION), as described in Methods and Supplemental Figure 3 online. The regularly spaced Cys residues in the extracellular crinkly repeat domain (absent in template structures) are likely to form stabilizing disulfide bridges because they occur on neighboring antiparallel β-strands within each repeat, close in space within the folded three-dimensional model structure, and could stabilize the β-propeller structure in the oxidizing extracellular environment (Figure 4A). Interestingly, similarly spaced Cys residues in putative RCC1-like β-propeller sequences (with the exception of other plant CR4-like proteins) were found only in proteins from two bacteria; Actinoplanes teichomyceticus (one protein; data not shown) and Bdellovibrio bacteriovorus (four proteins, one example shown in Supplemental Figure 4 online). [[FIGURE]] To test further the importance of the crinkly repeats for ACR4 protein function, a TILLING analysis was performed. This analysis identified 16 single base pair changes within the crinkly repeat domain that were predicted to alter amino acids conserved either between the ACR4 and CR4 proteins and/or between the conserved crinkly repeats (see Supplemental Table 2 online). Of these changes, 12 were aphenotypic (or showed phenotypes that were too weak to be detected). Four alleles showed a phenotype indistinguishable from acr4-2 (see Supplemental Table 3 online). Of these, three introduced stop codons and so would be predicted to produce drastically truncated proteins (acr4-8, acr4-9, and acr4-10). The fourth (acr4-7) changed a single Cys from the core C(X∼10)CWG of the fourth repeat to a Tyr (Y(X∼10)CWG) and thus might be expected to disrupt folding of this repeat within the β-propeller structure (Figure 4A). To verify that the null phenotype of acr4-7 was not simply due to complete destabilization of the protein, the open reading frame, including the single base pair change, was amplified out, fused to GFP, placed under control of the ACR4 promoter, and transformed into wild-type plants (ACR4C180-Y:GFP). Plants were examined for protein expression and localization by studying GFP fluorescence (Figure 4B). Protein was localized normally to the plasma membrane of root epidermal cells, ovules, and other meristematic regions, indicating that loss of function in this allele is not due to a total lack of protein stability or abnormal localization. To confirm that ACR4C180-Y:GFP was not functional, the same construction was transformed directly into acr4-2 mutant plants. As predicted, no complementation of the acr4 mutant phenotype was observed (see Supplemental Table 2 online). A final indication of the functional importance of the extracellular domain came from two constructs that were originally designed to follow the fate of the N-terminal region of ACR4. In these constructions, a signal peptide and GFP were fused N-terminally to full-length ACR4, either alone (GFP:ACR4) or in combination with the existing C-terminal fusion (GFP:ACR4:GFP). Although these fusion proteins localized correctly to the membrane, they were unable to complement the acr4 mutant phenotype and were therefore nonfunctional. It is possible that adding a GFP moiety to the N terminus of ACR4 prevents the normal interactions and/or folding of the crinkly repeat domain from taking place. To ascertain the roles of the cytoplasmic domains of ACR4, constructs were made that lacked the kinase domain and C-terminal domain (ΔKIN/C-TER:GFP), that lacked just the C-terminal domain (ΔC-TER and ΔC-TER:GFP), or that had a single Lys–Met amino acid change in the activation loop of the kinase domain, which has previously been shown to eliminate kinase activity in vitro (KIN-NULL and KIN-NULL:GFP) (CITATION). ΔKIN/C-TER:GFP did not complement acr4. However, no detectable GFP fluorescence was observed in ΔKIN/C-TER:GFP plants, and no signal was detected on protein gel blots other than a weak band of the size of GFP (data not shown), suggesting that this deletion derivative may be unstable. By contrast, both ΔC-TER and KIN-NULL complemented the acr4 mutant phenotype, and both proteins, when fused to GFP, were found to localize normally to the plasma membrane. KIN-NULL:GFP fluorescence was slightly reduced compared with that of ACR4:GFP (data not shown). These results suggest that neither the highly conserved C-terminal domain nor the kinase activity of ACR4 is required for its signaling function. To follow up the implications of our functional analysis at the cellular level, BFA treatments were performed on the roots of plants expressing ACR4 derivatives fused to GFP. All complementing GFP fusion derivatives showed localization sensitivity to BFA in exactly the same manner as ACR4:GFP. However, neither ΔTM/KIN/C-TER:GFP, ΔREPEAT:GFP, nor ACR4C180-Y:GFP entered BFA bodies upon treatment. These constructs are exported normally to the membrane, again suggesting that export of ACR4 protein to the membrane is not BFA sensitive in roots. This was investigated in greater depth by looking at colocalization between GFP fluorescence and FM4-64 fluorescence in the roots of plants carrying ACR4C180-Y:GFP or ΔREPEAT:GFP. In these plants, GFP-containing bodies in young meristematic cells looked identical to those of ACR4:GFP plants, and the same two populations of bright GFP-only–labeled compartments and FM4-64–labeled vesicles were observed (data not shown). Colocalizing vesicles were, however, hard to find. This was borne out by observations in older cells (elongation zone) where considerably less colocalization between GFP and FM4-64 was seen than in ACR4:GFP plants, although bodies showing colocalization were still occasionally observed (Figures 5A to 5C). Upon treatment with BFA, little or no GFP fluorescence was found in FM4-64–labeled BFA bodies, but the same population of GFP-only–labeled compartments as in non-BFA–treated controls was observed (Figures 5D to 5F). Thus, localization of nonfunctional ACR4 derivatives in internalized vesicles is diminished compared with that of functional ACR4 derivatives. [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether protein internalization is linked to some form of posttranslational modification of ACR4, proteins from plants carrying ACR4:GFP derivatives were analyzed by protein gel blots. Inflorescences from plant expressing ACR4:GFP, GFP:ACR4, GFP:ACR4:GFP, ΔREPEAT:GFP, ΔTNFR:GFP, ΔTM/KIN/C-TER:GFP, KIN-NULL:GFP, and ΔC-TER:GFP were either prepared as total extracts or immunoprecipitated from triton soluble fractions using an anti-GFP antibody and subjected to protein gel blot analysis. In a separate experiment, a protein gel blot was also performed on total extracts from plants expressing ACR4C180-Y:GFP and control plants expressing ΔREPEAT:GFP (Figure 6). Unlike the situation in plants carrying ACR4:GFP, predicted full-length protein products were detected in plants expressing each of the seven constructions ΔREPEAT:GFP (predicted 101 kD), ΔTNFR:GFP (predicted 118 kD), ΔTM/KIN/C-TER:GFP (predicted 73 kD), ΔC-TER:GFP (predicted 115 kD), ACR4C180-Y:GFP (predicted 125 kD), GFP:ACR4 (predicted 128 kD), and GFP:ACR4:GFP (predicted 155 kD). Full-length ΔREPEAT:GFP and ACR4C180-Y:GFP were highly stabilized and detectable without immunoprecipitation, in agreement with live observations showing increased protein abundance in lines expressing these protein derivatives (Figure 6). Although full-length ΔTNFR:GFP was detectable without immunoprecipitation, the amount detected was considerably less than for ΔREPEAT:GFP. This result is interesting because it implies that the TNFR region may play a role that was not uncovered by our complementation analysis. A similar situation was observed for ΔC-TER:GFP, although in this case full-length protein could only be detected in immunoprecipitated samples. Full-length KIN-NULL:GFP (predicted 125 kD), as for ACR4:GFP, was difficult to detect on protein gel blots, even when samples had been immunoprecipitated. The nonfunctional GFP:ACR4 and GFP:ACR4:GFP proteins were also detectable in their full-length forms, supporting the hypothesis that loss of function is to some measure linked to protein stabilization of ACR4 derivatives. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Modeling of the ACR4 extracellular crinkly repeats was undertaken based on the x-ray structures of two seven-bladed β-propeller folds, predicted to be significant hits by the fold-recognition server 3D-PSSM (CITATION): (1) BLIP-II from Streptomyces exfoliatus (PDB ID: 1JTD) (CITATION) and (2) RCC1 from human (PDB ID: 1A12) (CITATION) using the program Modeller release 7v7 (CITATION). These proteins share 22 and 19% pairwise identity, respectively, with the query sequence. The alignment between the target sequence of the crinkly repeats and the template structures was based on an initial multiple sequence alignment using the program T-Coffee 1.42 (CITATION). The multiple sequence alignment between the target and templates was manually edited to ensure the most plausible alignment of conserved amino acids and also secondary structure elements guided by the secondary structure prediction server, PsiPred 2.4 (CITATION). It should be noted that in the two template β-propeller structures, the first half of the first structural repeat, is made from the C-terminal end of the sequence, and the second half of the first structural repeat is made from the N-terminal end of the sequence (CITATION; CITATION). This was appropriately adjusted in the alignment with respect to the target sequence of the first crinkly repeat (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). The seven putative disulfide bridges within the seven repeats were restrained during model building. Twenty models were generated, and the one with the lowest objective function score (CITATION) selected as the representative model. The loop in repeat 3, for which no template-derived restraints were available, was deleted from the final model. The representative model structure was checked for valid stereochemistry using PROCHECK 3.5.4 (CITATION). GFP-labeled proteins and FM4-64–labeled vesicles were visualized in roots and ovules using a Bio-Rad Radiance 2100 confocal microscope (Hemel Hempstead, UK). FM4-64 fluorescence was detected using a 620-nm long-pass filter, and GFP fluorescence was detected with 500-nm long-pass and 530-nm short-pass filters. Some bleedthrough from the FM4-64 channel to the GFP channel was observed when wild-type (untransformed) plants were treated with FM4-64 (see Supplemental Figure 1 online); however, we are confident that this is limited to plasma membrane regions because no bleedthrough from more weakly fluorescent endocytosed vesicles was observed using our standard GFP detection conditions. In addition, the same two populations of strongly and weakly fluorescent GFP-labeling bodies were detected in non-FM4-64–labeled plants. Images were exported and treated using ImageJ software. FM4-64 (T3166; Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) treatments were performed as described in the text, following the method outlined by CITATION. BFA (B7651; Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) treatments were performed as described in the text following the methods described by CITATION. Cycloheximide (C7698; Sigma-Aldrich) treatments were performed as described in the text. The construction of plasmid pMD5 (containing the ACR4 open reading frame [ORF] under control of the ACR4 promoter), used for complementation analysis of acr4 mutants, and the complementing fusion of the full-length ACR4 ORF with the mGFP6 variant (pMD11) were as described by CITATION. To make construct ΔK/C-TER:GFP the ACR4 ORF lacking both kinase and C-terminal regions was amplified using CR5 (CITATION) and 5′-CTCGAGGAGCACCTACAATTCCTCAATC-3′, fused C-terminally to mGFP6, and placed under the control of the ACR4 promoter as described for pMD11. The resulting binary vector was designated pMD12. To create variants containing N-terminal GFP sequences, the mGFP6 ORF was amplified from pBSmGFP6 (CITATION) using primers 5′-ATCTAGAATGAGTAAAGGAGAAGAAC-3′ and 5′-AGGTACCAGGTGTTTGTATAGTTCATCC-3′, cloned into pGEMT-easy and then removed using KpnI and SacI. This was inserted in frame, upstream of the ACR4 ORF in pMD5, to create pMD58. The GFP ORF was also cloned into pMD11 to create a line with GFP tags at both termini of the ACR4 protein (pMD59). To ensure correct targeting of ACR4, the ACR4 signal peptide was placed upstream of the N-terminal GFP sequences. The signal peptide was amplified from pL92 (CITATION) using CR5 and 5′-TCTAGACATTGAACCAAGAGCTG-3′ and cloned into pGEMT-easy (Promega, Madison, WI). The insert was removed by digesting with EcoRI, cloned into EcoRI-cut pBluescript KS vector (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA), and cloned with the appropriate orientation digested with XbaI to remove the signal peptide–containing insert. This was inserted into XbaI-digested pMD58 and pMD59, creating pMD61 and pMD60, respectively. pMD61 is referred to as pGFP:ACR4 and pMD60 as pGFP:ACR4:GFP. To create a construct where 4.5 of the seven crinkly repeats had been removed, CREC5 (5′-AGATCTGACCAGGAGTCCCATCG-3′) and CR5 were used to amplify the appropriate N-terminal region of ACR4 from pL92. This product was cloned into pGEMT-easy (pMD30). CREC3 (5′-GGATCCCAGGTATCGGCTTTTATGATC-3′) and CR3 (5′-GAGCTCAGAAATTATGATGCAAGAACAAGC-3′) were used to amplify the appropriate C-terminal region. This C-terminal product was cloned into pGEMT-easy, removed by digesting with BamHI and SacI, and ligated in frame into BglII/SacI-cut pMD30. This ΔREPEAT ORF was then removed using KpnI/SacI and cloned into KpnI/SacI-cut (ACR4 ORF removed) pMD5 downstream of the ACR4 promoter, creating pΔREPEAT. In a similar fashion, pΔTNFR, pΔTM/K/C-ter, and pΔC-ter constructs were made by amplifying with the primer combinations listed in Table 1. The N-terminal and C-terminal ends (where required) were then ligated and cloned into pMD5 as above. To create GFP-tagged variants of these deletion constructs, the required C-terminal fragment of the ACR4 ORF fused to GFP was amplified from pMD11 using the primer GFP3STOP (5′-TCTAGTGTTTGTATAGTTCATCCATG-3′) in the place of CR3 (as listed in Table 1), ligated to the appropriate N-terminal fragment end, and cloned into pMD5. To create the kinase-null ACR4 variants, pL92 and pMD9 (containing the ACR4 ORF fused to the mGFP6 ORF) were subjected to site-directed mutagenesis using the same approach and primers as described by CITATION. This mutates the conserved Lys 540 in the ACR4 kinase domain to Met. KpnI/SacI insertions from the resulting plasmids were then cloned into KpnI/SacI-cut pMD5 as previously. Predicted protein molecular weights were calculated in EditSeq (Lazergene, Madison, WI). Primer Pair Combinations Used for Construction of Deletion Constructs To create pACR4C180-Y:GFP, the ACR4 ORF was amplified from acr4-7 homozygous plants and cloned into pGEMT-easy. An internal HindIII fragment containing the required mutation was excised and used to replace the corresponding wild-type HindIII fragment in pMD9 (above). The insert from this vector was then cloned downstream of the ACR4 promoter in pMD5 as described above. Plant transformations were performed as described by CITATION, and complementation of the acr4 mutant phenotype was investigated in the acr4-2 null allele as described by CITATION. Complementation was ascertained by screening primary transformants by eye for the absence or presence of characteristic ovule and seed shape defects and seed development defects seen in acr4 mutants (see Supplemental Figure 2 and Supplemental Table 1 online). Representative examples of plants showing complementation were subjected to a PCR-based verification that they were not wild-type contaminants. Proteins were extracted from inflorescence tips comprising all unopened flowers and the first open flower. Fifty to seventy such tips were used for each extraction. Material was collected into liquid nitrogen and then ground to a fine powder while frozen in a pestle and mortar. Two hundred microliters of extraction buffer (0.05 M Tris-HCl, 0.15 M NaCl, 0.1 M DTT, and 1% [w/v] Triton, pH 7.5) with freshly added EDTA-free protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche, Indianapolis, IN) were added. Samples were then either immunoprecipitated using a polyclonal rabbit anti-GFP antibody (Molecular Probes) and Protein-A coupled Dynabeads (Dynal, Oslo, Norway) following the manufacturers' instructions with room temperature elution in 15 μL of 1× protein loading buffer (Sigma-Aldrich) or 0.2 volumes of 6× protein loading buffer (0.35 M Tris-HCl, 10.28% [w/v] SDS, 36% [w/v] glycerol, 0.6 M DTT, and 0.012% [w/v] bromophenol blue, pH 6.8) were added to the total sample. Samples were boiled for 1 min (immunoprecipitations) or 5 min (total extracts) and centrifuged for 1 min, and then 15 μL aliquots were loaded onto 10% acrylamide gels. Gels were subjected to protein gel blotting onto nitrocellulose membranes (Protran; Schleicher and Schuell, Dassel, Germany) using standard procedures, and GFP-labeled proteins were then detected using a rabbit polyclonal anti-GFP primary antibody (Molecular Probes) and a horseradish peroxidase–linked donkey anti-rabbit secondary antibody (Amersham Biosciences, Little Chalfont, UK). Peroxidase activity was detected using the ECL protein gel blotting analysis system (Amersham Biosciences). Full information regarding TILLING alleles acr4-7 to acr4-22 is presented in Supplemental Table 2 online. TILLING of the extracellular region–encoding domain of ACR4 was performed as described by CITATION (CITATION). In this study, we describe alleles acr4-7 to acr4-10. The nature of these mutations and the strategy for their genotyping by cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequences is shown in Supplemental Table 3 online.
