!~ABS~! Cullin-based E3 ubiquitin ligases play important roles in the regulation of diverse developmental processes and environmental responses in eukaryotic organisms. Recently, it was shown in Schizosaccharomyces pombe, Caenorhabditis elegans, and mammals that Cullin3 (CUL3) directly associates with RBX1 and BTB domain proteins in vivo to form a new family of E3 ligases, with the BTB protein subunit functioning in substrate recognition. Here, we demonstrate that Arabidopsis thaliana has two redundant CUL3 (AtCUL3) genes that are essential for embryo development. Besides supporting anticipated specific AtCUL3 interactions with the RING protein AtRBX1 and representative Arabidopsis proteins containing a BTB domain in vitro, we show that AtCUL3 cofractionates and specifically associates with AtRBX1 and a representative BTB protein in vivo. Similar to the AtCUL1 subunit of the SKP1-CUL1-F-box protein–type E3 ligases, the AtCUL3 subunit of the BTB-containing E3 ligase complexes is subjected to modification and possible regulation by the ubiquitin-like protein Related to Ubiquitin in vivo. Together with the presence of large numbers of BTB proteins with diverse structural features and expression patterns, our data suggest that Arabidopsis has conserved AtCUL3-RBX1-BTB protein E3 ubiquitin ligases to target diverse protein substrates for degradation by the ubiquitin/proteasome pathway.
!~RES~! Analysis of the Arabidopsis genome revealed the presence of at least 10 predicted cullin-related genes (CITATION). Six of these contain reading frames with apparently intact canonical N- and C-terminal domains. At least five (AtCUL1, AtCUL2, AtCUL3A, AtCUL3B, and AtCUL4) of those six genes are expressed, as indicated by the presence of their corresponding EST clones (CITATION). Phylogenetic analysis of cullins from Arabidopsis and from other eukaryotes indicates that AtCUL3A and AtCUL3B are two closely related members of a two-gene family and are clustered in the same clade with CUL3 from Homo sapiens, D. melanogaster, C. elegans, S. pombe, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae (CITATION). Both of the AtCUL3A and AtCUL3B genes have two exons and encode proteins of 732 amino acids residues (GenBank accession numbers CAC87120 and AAG52544, respectively). The predicted protein sequences for AtCUL3A and AtCUL3B share 88% identity (Figure 1A; see Supplemental Figure 1 online), with AtCUL3A being slightly more closely related to its human homolog hCUL3 (52% amino acid identity) (Figure 1A). The greatest similarity between these proteins is in the C-terminal region, which contains both the RUB/NEDD8 conjugation site (CITATION) and the cullin homology domain (Figure 1A). This domain represents a conserved module and is responsible for connecting an E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme to the ubiquitin ligase (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] As an initial step in studying the biological role of the AtCUL3 proteins, we conducted a database search for Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion mutant lines. We found one T-DNA line that contains an insertion located within the second exon of AtCUL3A, 417 bp upstream of the STOP codon (Figure 1B). A T-DNA insertion line for the AtCUL3B gene was also identified, with the T-DNA inserted 155 bp downstream of the START codon (Figure 1B). Both insertions likely give rise to null mutations, as neither homozygous line expresses the AtCUL3A or AtCUL3B mRNA, respectively (Figure 1C). Protein blot analyses of protein extract from Arabidopsis cul3a mutant seedlings showed a drastic reduction in total AtCUL3 protein level with respect to wild-type plants, whereas no significant differences in overall AtCUL3 level were observed between the cul3b mutants and wild-type siblings (Figure 1D). Because the anti-CUL3 antibody has similar affinity for both AtCUL3 proteins (Figure 1E), the results shown in Figure 1D suggest that AtCUL3A may be predominantly expressed with respect to AtCUL3B in seedlings. The presence of two specific bands for CUL3 in the protein blot analysis of seedling extracts (Figure 1D) suggests that AtCUL3 might be posttranslationally modified by the attachment of the ubiquitin-like protein RUB (called NEDD8 in mammals and yeast). In fact, it has been shown that CUL3, like other cullins, can be covalently modified by the attachment of RUB/NEDD8 (CITATION). In the case of the SCF complex, the RUB/NEDD8 modification of CUL1 (rubylation) provides an important positive regulation of the E3 ligase activity, enhancing E2 recruitment and polyubiquitination of the substrate (CITATION; CITATION). In the case of CUL3, rubylation and derubylation have been shown to be required for targeting MEI-1/katanin for degradation in C. elegans (CITATION). To test whether Arabidopsis CUL3 is covalently modified by RUB, the same protein extracts probed with anti-CUL3 antibody (Figure 1D) were immunoblotted against anti-RUB antibodies. The results demonstrate that only the upper band is recognized by anti-RUB antibodies (data not shown). Because both AtCUL3 forms were observed in the cul3a and cul3b mutants, as well as in wild-type plants, it is possible to conclude that, like AtCUL1, the AtCUL3A and AtCUL3B proteins are subjected to modification by RUB. Although each insertion gives rise to a null mutation, when grown under normal growth conditions the single homozygous cul3a and cul3b insertion mutants are virtually indistinguishable from their wild-type siblings throughout their entire life cycles (Figure 1F). However, no homozygous double mutant plants were recovered, despite multiple attempts using PCR genotyping of 60 segregating progeny obtained from the self-pollination of parental plants homozygous for the mutation in one of the two AtCUL3 loci and heterozygous for the mutation in the other. To further investigate the absence of double homozygous cul3a cul3b mutants, we selected plants that were heterozygous for cul3a and homozygous for cul3b and performed detailed examinations with a dissection stereoscope (Figures 2A to 2H) and a differential interference contrast (DIC) microscope (Figures 2J to 2S). Siliques and developing seeds, at different developmental stages after self-pollination, were analyzed. As shown in Figures 2A and 2B, at early developmental stages the fertilized ovules obtained from the self-pollination of wild-type (Figure 2A) and CUL3A/cul3a cul3b/cul3b (Figure 2B) parental plants are virtually indistinguishable from each other, as they all contain developing embryos at the early globular stage (Figures 2J and 2K). However, after the transition from the globular to the heart stage (Figures 2L to 2O), all ovules from wild-type plants uniformly contain heart-stage embryos (data not shown), whereas the ovules from CUL3A/cul3a cul3b/cul3b plants segregate wild-type–like ovules with heart-stage embryos (Figures 2L and 2N) and ovules with embryos arrested at the globular stage (Figure 2M) or a slightly later stage (Figure 2O). At a later developmental stage, whereas wild-type siliques uniformly contain green seeds (Figures 2C and 2E) that undergo the maturation process (Figure 2G), siliques from CUL3A/cul3a cul3b/cul3b plants segregate both wild-type developing seeds and pale green/yellowish developing seeds, indicated by yellow arrowheads in Figure 2D. DIC microscopy of cleared ovules from these siliques demonstrated that although the green ovules contain mature embryos (Figure 2R), the pale green ovules contain underdeveloped embryos arrested at a late globular-to-heart transition (Figure 2Q) or at a heart-like stage (Figure 2S). During the seed maturation and desiccation processes, the wild-type–like green mature ovules from CUL3A/cul3a cul3b/cul3b plants develop into brown seeds (Figure 2H), indistinguishable from the wild-type ovules (Figure 2G), whereas the pale yellowish ovules of the same plants turned into red shrunken seeds (indicated by red arrowheads in Figure 2H), possibly because the absence of a mature embryo causes the collapse of the seed coat. Similar analyses of developing siliques obtained from the self-pollination of the reciprocal cul3a/cul3a CUL3B/cul3b double mutant gave results identical to those in Figure 2 for the self-pollination of CUL3A/cul3a cul3b/cul3b double mutant plants (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] As shown in Table 1, stereoscopic analyses of a large number of developing siliques from the self-pollination of both CUL3A/cul3a cul3b/cul3b and cul3a/cul3a CUL3B/cul3b parental plants indicate that the frequency of pale green/yellowish ovules that turned into red shrunken seeds corresponds to ∼16.5 and 17% of the total developing seeds, respectively. Because these defective seeds have not been observed in either of the single cul3a or cul3b mutants (Table 1), and because we have been unable to recover homozygous double mutant plants, it is plausible that the defective ovules containing arrested embryos correspond to the double homozygous cul3a cul3b mutants. However, the frequency of these defective double mutant seeds is lower than the expected 25% rate for the double homozygous mutant progeny from a self-pollination of CUL3A/cul3a cul3b/cul3b and cul3a/cul3a CUL3B/cul3b plants. Such a discrepancy might be related to the observation that the siliques obtained from the self-pollination of both reciprocal parental plants (CUL3A/cul3a cul3b/cul3b and cul3a/cul3a CUL3B/cul3b) also contain variable numbers of early-aborted ovules, which might represent unfertilized ovules or ovules arrested at a very early stage after fertilization. The frequency of these early-aborted ovules is higher than that observed in wild-type plants and may represent the missing fraction of double cul3a cul3b mutants. Based on this observation, it is possible that a reduction in the fitness of the cul3a cul3b gametophytes alone, or a very early arrest of the fertilized double mutant ovules, or a combination of both, might be responsible for the early abortion of the ovules. Further studies of the effect of cul3a cul3b double mutations on pollen and ovule fitness will likely clarify this issue. Segregation of the cul3a cul3b Double Mutant Progeny To obtain additional insight into the role of the AtCUL3 proteins beyond embryo development, we surveyed the expression patterns of the two AtCUL3 genes in different tissues by immunoblot analysis (Figure 3A). We found that the AtCUL3 protein is more highly expressed in flowers, stems, and seedlings than in cauline and rosette leaves. Gene-specific 70-mer oligonucleotide probes for the two AtCUL3 genes were used in a microarray analysis of the steady state mRNA levels of a broad set of Arabidopsis tissue and organ types (Figure 3B). Although the difference in the 70-mer oligonucleotide sequences, and thus the hybridization efficiency, prevents us from making a quantitative comparison of the relative mRNA levels of the two genes, the relative levels of each transcript in different organ or tissue types are comparable. We found that the patterns of mRNA expression for the AtCUL3 genes largely overlap but are not exactly the same, with germinated seeds having the highest levels of transcripts of both genes. Notably, we found a good correlation between the relative AtCUL3 protein level and its corresponding mRNA in those organs in which both protein and mRNA were analyzed. For example, both cauline and rosette leaves have low levels of both AtCUL3 mRNAs and proteins. [[FIGURE]] Arabidopsis has three RUB proteins, with the highly similar RUB1 and RUB2 playing the dominant roles (CITATION). To examine whether RUB is able to conjugate to AtCUL3, a hemagglutinin epitope (HA)-tagged version of RUB2, under a dexamethasone-inducible promoter (CITATION), was used for immunoprecipitation of RUB proteins. Protein blot analysis with anti-AtCUL3 antibodies revealed a slowly migrating band after immunoprecipitation of dexamethasone-treated extracts for 3HA-RUB2 (Figure 3C, lane 4), which should correspond to 3HA-RUB2-AtCUL3. In total extracts, unconjugated AtCUL3 and native RUB-conjugated AtCUL3 were observed (Figure 3C, lanes 1 and 2), whereas 3HA-RUB-AtCUL3 was not observable because of its low abundance. These data confirm that the AtCUL3 proteins are subjected to modification by RUB in planta. Based on recent studies in C. elegans showing that CUL3 interacts with a protein harboring a BTB domain (CITATION; CITATION), we searched in the PFAM (Protein Families Database of Alignments) domain database (CITATION) and easily identified at least 37 Arabidopsis proteins containing a BTB domain. We also conducted a BLAST search for Arabidopsis proteins with a sequence homologous with the BTB domain of the C. elegans MEL-26 protein (smallest sum probability, P < 2.0e-07). Based on these two searches, we defined and selected 21 high-confidence Arabidopsis BTB proteins for further analysis. Using RT-PCR, we successfully cloned full-coding cDNA for 11 of those Arabidopsis BTB genes. Phylogenetic analysis of the BTB domain of the 11 proteins, together with C. elegans MEL-26, revealed the presence of three main branches, with the BTB domain encoded by At1g21780 being the most similar to the BTB domain of MEL-26, with 35% sequence identity between the two (Figure 4A; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). [[FIGURE]] To examine a possible interaction between AtCUL3 and the Arabidopsis BTB proteins, the 11 cloned BTB proteins were subjected to an in vitro pull-down assay with the recombinant Maltose Binding Protein (MBP)-AtCUL3A protein. Briefly, the purified MBP-AtCUL3A was incubated separately with each individual in vitro–translated BTB protein, and its affinity for a given BTB protein was examined after an extensive washing procedure. The results shown in Figure 4B demonstrate that all of the 11 Arabidopsis BTB proteins tested to date were able to interact with MBP-AtCUL3A in the in vitro pull-down assay. As expected, on the basis of previous findings in other eukaryotic organisms, Arabidopsis RBX1 was able to interact with MBP-AtCUL3A in the same pull-down assay, whereas, interestingly, the SKP1-like Arabidopsis proteins ASK1 and ASK2 were not. Based on the highest sequence homology in the BTB domains between At1g21780 and MEL-26, and on the positive interaction observed in our pull-down assay, At1g21780 was selected for further detailed structural and functional analysis. A yeast two-hybrid assay was used to further verify the interaction between the At1g21780 protein and AtCUL3A (Figure 5A). In agreement with the results obtained from the in vitro pull-down assay, the yeast two-hybrid assay confirmed that AtCUL3A interacts with the At1g21780 BTB protein but not with the SKP1-like ASK1 or ASK2 protein. A control yeast two-hybrid assay also showed that AtCUL1 was unable to interact with At1g21780, further supporting the notion that the interaction between At1g21780 and AtCUL3A is specific and does not apply to the entire cullin family. [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, the yeast two-hybrid assay also revealed that At1g21780 is able to interact with itself (Figure 5A). This observation is consistent with the report that BTB proteins are capable of homodimerization and of heterodimerization with other members of the same family (CITATION; CITATION). A comparative analysis of CUL3 proteins from several organisms revealed the presence of highly conserved N-terminal elements corresponding to the H2 helix of CUL1 (CITATION; CITATION). Indeed, mutagenesis analyses indicated that residues in this predicted helix region are important for the interaction between the C. elegans CUL3 and MEL-26 proteins (CITATION). To examine the involvement of these elements in BTB protein binding in Arabidopsis, we generated a mutant version of AtCUL3A in the H2 region (S48A/F49A) and tested it for interaction with At1g21780 using a yeast two-hybrid assay (Figure 5B). The results clearly demonstrate that the mutation in the H2 helix of AtCUL3A completely abolishes its ability to interact with At1g21780 (Figure 5D). We were also interested in defining the effect of RUB modification on the AtCUL3A–At1g21780 interaction. Therefore, we generated an AtCUL3A K676R mutation that abolished the RUB modification of AtCUL3A (Figure 5B). It is interesting that the AtCUL3A K676R mutant protein, which is not RUB-modified in yeast (Figure 5E, lane 2), is still able to interact with At1g21780 at a wild-type level (Figure 5D). This result indicates that the RUB modification of AtCUL3A is not required for and does not affect the AtCUL3A interaction with At1g21780 in the yeast assay. Previous structural analyses indicate that SKP1 and elongin C adopt α/β-structures similar to the BTB domain of human promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger (CITATION). In the case of SKP1, several residues located in β-strand 3 (S3) and in α-helix 5 (H5) contact CUL1 (CITATION). In addition, recent studies have shown that analogous residues in the MEL-26 BTB domain are important for the interaction between MEL-26 and CUL3 (CITATION). Therefore, we generated mutations in analogous residues of the BTB domain (residues 151 to 259) of At1g21780 (Figure 5C), which are conserved in several Arabidopsis BTB proteins (see Supplemental Figure 2 online), and tested their ability to interact with AtCUL3A by yeast two-hybrid assay. Some mutations in the predicted S3 (I204R) or H5 (Y242A) abolished the interaction of the BTB protein with AtCUL3A (Figure 5D), whereas other mutations in S3 (D206A) or H5 (I244R) reduced the interaction by three times with respect to wild-type At1g21780 (Figure 5D). Clearly, these data suggest that analogous structural elements in the SKP1, MEL-26, and At1g21780 proteins may be used to interact with a common interface located in the N terminus of distinct cullin proteins. On the other hand, those same point mutations in the BTB domain did not significantly affect the self-interaction of the BTB protein (Figure 5D), suggesting that distinct interacting surfaces are responsible for its self-interaction and for its interaction with AtCUL3. As our yeast two-hybrid results suggested that several residues of the BTB domain of At1g21780 are critical for the interaction with AtCUL3 (Figure 5D), we further tested whether the BTB domain itself is sufficient to interact with AtCUL3A. Several truncated versions of At1g21780 (Figure 6A) were generated, and their ability to interact with AtCUL3A was analyzed using in vitro pull-down assays. To verify the specificity of this in vitro assay for interaction between AtCUL3A and At1g21780, two different negative controls were included. First, an in vitro translated full-length At1g21780 was used in the in vitro binding assay with MBP alone (Figure 6B, left). Second, an in vitro–translated Luciferase was used in the in vitro binding assay with MBP-CUL3A (Figure 6B, right). In both cases, no detectable interactions were observed, confirming the specificity of the results described below. [[FIGURE]] The deletion of 62 residues at the C-terminal region of At1g21780 (truncation T1, Figure 6C) did not affect the binding to MBP-AtCUL3A. Two other deletions of 50 and 100 residues at the N-terminal region of At1g21780, in addition to the 62 residues at the C terminus, also did not affect the binding to AtCUL3A (truncations T2 and T3, Figure 6C). Nevertheless, a third truncated version of At1g21780, lacking 124 residues at the N terminus and 62 residues at the C terminus but still containing the entire BTB region, did not bind to MBP-AtCUL3A (truncation T4, Figure 6C). Similarly, a truncated version of At1g21780, lacking 145 residues at the N terminus but containing the complete C-terminal region, did not bind to MBP-AtCUL3A (truncation T5, Figure 6C). The binding results obtained with truncations T4 and T5 suggest that the BTB domain of At1g21780 is not sufficient to confer a detectable interaction with AtCUL3A in our assay. Furthermore, comparison of the binding results for truncations T3 and T4 suggests that a region between residues 100 and 124 of At1g21780 is important for the interaction between this BTB protein and AtCUL3A. To test whether AtCUL3 forms the expected E3 ubiquitin ligase complex in vivo, we performed a gel filtration analysis of protein extracts obtained from tandem affinity purification (TAP)-AtRBX1 and At1g21780-TAP transgenic lines (see Methods). Protein blot analysis with anti-AtCUL3 antibodies showed that AtCUL3 is present in a broad range of size fractions, from the monomeric form to high molecular mass complex(es) (Figure 7, top gel, first row). The gel filtration profile of AtCUL3 is somewhat similar to that of AtCUL1 (Figure 7, top gel, second row), which forms well-characterized SCF complexes. Based on the fact that the AtCUL3A protein is predominantly expressed with respect to AtCUL3B in the same tissue (Figure 1D), we conclude that AtCUL3A can form high molecular mass complexes in vivo. The gel filtration profile of At1g21780 with a TAP tag (detected using anti-myc antibodies) is broad and overlaps with that of AtCUL3A (Figure 7, top gel, third row, fractions 8 to 14). Meanwhile, the gel filtration profile of TAP-RBX1 protein from TAP-AtRBX1 transgenic seedlings (Figure 7, bottom) overlaps well with the corresponding fractions of AtCUL3A and At1g21780-TAP proteins (fractions 8 to 14), in agreement with the idea that the three proteins can form a multisubunit complex in vivo. [[FIGURE]] To test whether AtCUL3 interacts with RBX1 in vivo, coimmunoprecipitation experiments of the two proteins were performed. After immunoprecipitation of Arabidopsis seedling extracts with anti-AtCUL3 antibodies, the blot was probed with either anti-AtCUL3 or anti-RBX1 antibodies. As shown in Figure 8A, RBX1 coimmunoprecipitated well with AtCUL3 (lane 3), whereas the control TATA binding protein (TBP) did not (lane 3, bottom). This assay suggests that AtCUL3 associates specifically with RBX1 in vivo. [[FIGURE]] To verify the interaction between AtCUL3 and At1g21780, the protein extract from At1g21780-TAP transgenic plants was used for coimmunoprecipitation analysis. The results, shown in Figure 8B, demonstrate that the IgG beads can specifically pull down At1g21780-TAP and coimmunoprecipitate AtCUL3 but not the control protein TBP. The same beads cannot pull down AtCUL3 in either wild-type or TAP-green fluorescent protein (GFP) seedling extracts, suggesting that AtCUL3 specifically associates with the At1g21780 BTB protein in vivo. Careful analysis of the domain structure of the Arabidopsis BTB proteins using the PFAM domain database revealed a broad arrangement of different additional domains present in Arabidopsis BTB proteins. A comparison of the domain structures in the 11 cloned BTB proteins is shown in Figure 9A. In addition to the Meprin and TRAF-Homology (MATH) domain and the TAZ zinc finger domain shown in Figure 9A, ankyrin repeats, armadillo/β-catenin–like repeats, and BSD (for found in BTF2-like transcription factors, synapse-associated, and DOS2-like proteins) domains are present in other BTB proteins (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To gain a quick glimpse into the possible function of the BTB proteins under study, the expression of the BTB genes at the mRNA level was examined by DNA microarray analysis (Figure 9B) (CITATION). All of the BTB genes show distinct organ or tissue expression profiles and also are not identical to those of the AtCUL3 genes (Figure 3B). For example, the At1g21780 gene shows higher relative levels in petal, stamen, and hypocotyl of the dark-grown seedling.
!~MM~! We obtained the T-DNA insertion line for Arabidopsis thaliana CUL3A from the Salk collection (SALK_050756; Columbia ecotype) (CITATION) and the T-DNA insertion line for AtCUL3B from screening the Wisconsin collection (Wassilewskija ecotype) (CITATION). Plants homozygous for the T-DNA insertion were identified by PCR-based genotyping. F1 plants from cul3a and cul3b plants were self-crossed. F2 plants were then genotyped by PCR, and the siliques from CUL3A/cul3a cul3b/cul3b plants were analyzed. 3HA-RUB1 and 3HA-RUB2 transgenic lines were described previously (CITATION). The wild-type Arabidopsis plants used in this study were of the Columbia-0 ecotype. To grow Arabidopsis seedlings, seeds were surface sterilized, put on MS plates (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) containing 1% sucrose, and cold-treated at 4°C for 3 to 5 d before being placed in a continuous white light growth chamber (150 μmol·m−2·s−1) or in darkness. To obtain adult plants, 7- to 9-d-old light-grown seedlings were transferred to soil and grown in a standard long-day (16 h of light/8 h of dark) growth room. For the microarray experiments, we used wild-type Arabidopsis tissues or organs as described below. The germinating seeds were collected after the seeds were planted on agar plates containing growth medium plus 1% sucrose and grown under continuous white light (150 μmol·m−2·s−1) for 48 h. The Arabidopsis seedlings used in this microarray study were 6 d old. The cotyledon, hypocotyl, and root were collected from the same seedling. Rosette leaves were collected from 3-week-old plants grown under continuous white light. The adult Arabidopsis plant was grown under continuous white light (250 μmol·m−2·s−1). Cauline leaves and stems were collected from 4-week-old plants. Floral organs were collected on the day of flowering. Siliques were collected 3 or 8 d after pollination. Suspension culture cells were prepared starting from seeds as described by CITATION. The cultured cells used for RNA isolation were collected at the logarithmic growth phase. Siliques at different developmental stages were harvested, dissected using a stereoscope, and fixed overnight in an ethanol/acetic acid (8:1) solution at 4°C. Fixed siliques were cleared in a derivative of Hoyer's solution (cloral hydrate/glycerol/water, 80:13:30 g) for 24 to 48 h at 4°C. Cleared ovules were further removed from their siliques in a drop of the same clearing solution, whole-mounted, and observed using a Zeiss Axiophot Microscope (Zeiss, Jena, Germany) equipped with Nomarsky optics (DIC). Digital images were captured using Axiovision 3.0 software (Zeiss). The 70-mer oligonucleotide set of the Arabidopsis genome was designed and synthesized by Qiagen/Operon (http://oligos.qiagen.com/arrays/omad.php) based on the Arabidopsis genome information available as of February 20, 2002. The Arabidopsis 26K 70-mer oligomer microarray contains 26,090 individual oligomers that represent 25,676 unique locus identifiers (genes) of Arabidopsis (CITATION). The 70-mer sequences whose expression data are reported in this article are as follows: At1g26830 (AtCUL3A), 5′-TTCCGTTCTTACTACCTTGGGACACATACCGGTAGAAGATTGTCCTGGCAAACAAACATGGGCACAGCAG-3′; At1g69670 (AtCUL3B), 5′-AGGCAACTGAAATCCCCACCCCAGACCTAAAGCGTTGCTTGCAGTCAATGGCGTGTGTAAAAGGTAAAAA-3′; At1g21780, 5′-TTCAAAAGCATGTTCCACCACGACCTCATGGAAAAGGAATCATCCACAATCCACATAGACGACATGTCGA-3′; At3g48360, 5′-CGTAGTAGATAACAACAAAAAGTCAATGACTGCGGAAAAGTCAGAGCCTTGTAAGGCGTTTTCCACGTGT-3′; At3g06190, 5′-AAAACTCTGTGAAGGAATCAGCATAAATACGGTAGCAACCACCTTGGCTCTTGCAGAGCAGCATCATTGT-3′; At2g39760, 5′-AACTTGATGTTGATAATGTGGCAACAACACTTGCGTTGGCTGAACAGCACCAATTCTTACAGCTCAAAGC-3′; At4g37610, 5′-AAAGCTACGAGAGATTCATGGGATCGTATGTTCGACGAAGCTCATGGAGCTGATGTTTTGATTCATACTG-3′; and At5g63160, 5′-TCATCGAGAAGCCGAGGAAGATTCACGGCGGATCATCGAAGAAAGTTATTAAGATTCTCGGTGTTCCATG-3′. The expression profiles of the 2 CUL3 genes and 11 BTB domain–containing genes in Arabidopsis were extracted from a recent whole-genome microarray-profiling study (CITATION). Details of the materials and methods can be found in the original publication. In brief, total RNA was extracted from 17 Arabidopsis organs: light-grown cotyledon, dark-grown cotyledon, light-grown hypocotyl, dark-grown hypocotyl, rosette leaf, cauline leaf, stem, sepal, petal, stamen, pistil 1 d before pollination, pistil 1 d after pollination, silique 3 d after pollination, silique 8 d after pollination, germinated seed, light-grown root, and dark-grown root. Total RNA (50 μg) was first labeled with aminoallyl-dUTP (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) by direct incorporation of aminoallyl-dUTP during reverse transcription, as described previously (CITATION). The purified probe was further labeled with fluorescent dye by conjugating aminoallyl-dUTP and monofunctional Cy-3 or Cy-5 (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ). The dye-labeled probe was purified from the unincorporated dye molecules by washing three times through a Microcon YM-30 filter (Millipore, Bedford, MA). The purified labeled probes from each specific organ versus cultured cells as common control pairs or dark versus light organ pairs were combined to hybridize the microarray slide for 12 to 16 h at 42°C (CITATION). Except for petal (two replicates) and pistil 1 d after pollination (four replicates), there were three biological replicates used for all organ types, with one quality data set from each replicate. In this genome-profiling study, all 17 organ sample probes were labeled with the same Cy-3 dye and were directly comparable after normalization (see below). Spot intensities on microarray slides after hybridization were scanned with an Axon GenePix 4000B scanner (Foster City, CA) set at the same voltage and quantified using Axon GenePix Pro 3.0 image-analysis software. The net intensities for each channel were measured using the GenePix Pro 3.0 median of intensity. Because the 70-mer oligomer microarray slides are highly uniform and reproducible from slide to slide, and all of the organ mRNAs were labeled with the same Cy-3 dye, a simple two-step normalization based on the median intensities of each microarray slide was performed for the entire data sets of 17 organs—namely, normalization of the replicates from the same organ type followed by normalization among all organs. For each specific gene (spot), the mean of the normalized intensities of the same spots from all replicates for a given organ was considered representative of the relative expression level of the gene in that organ. This is shown as bar graphs in Figures 3B and 9. It should be noted that because of the differences in the 70-mer oligonucleotide sequences and thus the hybridization efficiency for distinct genes, only the relative levels of each given transcript in different organs are comparable. Therefore, quantitative comparison of the relative mRNA levels of the different genes is not reliable. Total RNA was extracted from whole seedlings using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). Poly(A)+ RNA was enriched with Oligotex according to the manufacturer's protocol (Qiagen). RNA gel blot analysis was performed by standard procedures under stringent conditions with 32P-labeled probe. The AtCUL3A probe was a 167-bp DNA fragment obtained by PCR amplification from the 3′ untranslated region. The probe was radiolabeled using the Rediprime kit (Amersham Biosciences). To obtain the full-length open reading frame of AtBTB cDNAs, first-strand cDNA synthesis was performed on 1 μg of poly(A)+ RNA with oligo(dT) according to the instructions of the Superscript Preamplification System (Invitrogen). PCR amplifications were performed on one-tenth of the cDNA using Herculase DNA polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) and specific primers. PCR products were purified by agarose gel electrophoresis, recombined with the pCR-Blunt II-TOPO plasmid (Invitrogen), and sequenced. The cDNA sequences are identical to those of the spliced products predicted by the genomic accessions. The AtBTB cDNAs and truncated versions of At1g21780 cDNA were subcloned into the pTNT plasmid (Promega, Madison, WI) under the control of the T7 promoter. In vitro–translated AtBTBs were produced with the TNT-Quick Coupled transcription/translation system (Promega) using 35S-Met (Amersham Bioscience). The AtCUL3A coding region was subcloned downstream of the MBP coding sequence of plasmid pMAL2c (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA). The fusion protein was produced in BL21 Codon Plus Escherichia coli (Stratagene) and purified using amylose–Sepharose 4B (New England Biolabs). The protein (5 μg) was incubated with in vitro–translated AtBTBs in 500 μL of binding buffer (50 mM Tris-Cl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM MgCl2, and 0.2% Nonidet P-40). After 45 min at room temperature, 20 μL of amylose resin was added to the reaction and incubated for an additional 45 min. After several washes with binding buffer, bound proteins were resuspended in Laemmli buffer and separated by SDS–PAGE. The gel was then exposed for fluorography. The N-terminal region of AtCUL3A (333 N-terminal residues) was expressed in the vector pET28a (Novagen, San Diego, CA) and the E. coli strain BL21(DE3)lysS (Novagen). The protein (insoluble fraction) was electrophoresed by SDS-PAGE and electroeluted. Rabbits were injected with the purified protein, and the antibodies were affinity-purified using the purified Cullin3A protein attached to a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane. For detection, the ECL Plus protein gel blotting detection system (Amersham Biosciences) was used. For direct immunoblot analysis of plant extracts, Arabidopsis seedlings or tissues were homogenized in lysis buffer: 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl2, 50 mM NaF, 10 mM Na3VO4, 60 mM β-glycerolphosphate, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1× complete protease inhibitor (Roche, Basel, Switzerland). The extracts were centrifuged twice at 13,000g for 10 min each at 4°C, and the protein concentration in the supernatant was determined by Bradford assay (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). Protein samples were boiled in sample buffer, run on SDS-PAGE gels (10%), and blotted onto polyvinylidene difluoride membranes (Millipore). The blots were probed with different primary antibodies. Other primary antibodies used in this study include anti-AtCUL1 (CITATION), anti-RPT5 (CITATION), anti-RPN6 (CITATION), anti-AtRBX1 (CITATION), and anti-TBP (CITATION). Coimmunoprecipitation experiments were performed as described previously (CITATION) with minor modifications. The lysis/binding/washing buffer was 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl2, 50 mM NaF, 10 mM Na3VO4, 60 mM β-glycerolphosphate, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1× complete protease inhibitor (Roche). After immunoprecipitation with IgG-coupled Sepharose (Amersham Biosciences), the proteins were eluted by cleavage of the IgG binding domain with 3C protease (Amersham Biosciences). The eluted proteins were concentrated using Strataclean resin (Stratagene). For gel filtration chromatography, 6-d-old seedlings were homogenized in lysis buffer (see above). The extract was centrifuged at 13,000g for 10 min at 4°C and subsequently filtered though a 0.2-μm syringe filter. Total soluble protein was fractionated through a 25-mL Superdex-6 HR fast protein liquid chromatography column (Amersham Biosciences) with the lysis buffer. After a 7-mL void volume was achieved, consecutive fractions of 0.5 mL each were collected. Proteins were concentrated using Strataclean resin (Stratagene). The QuickChange II XL site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene) was used to create AtCUL3A(K676R), AtCUL3A(S48A, F49A), and At1g21780 (I204R, D206A, Y242A, I244R) constructs. The full-length cDNA clones for AtCUL3A, AtCUL1, At1g21780, and the mutated versions of AtCUL3A and At1g21780 were cloned as translational fusions to the LexA DNA binding domain (in pEG202; Origene Technologies, Rockville, MD). At1g21780, ASK1, ASK2, and mutated versions of At1g21780 were cloned fused to the transcription activation domain (in pJG4-5; Origene Technologies). All of the LexA fusion constructs were transformed into yeast strain EGY48 (Invitrogen). The activation domain fusion constructs were transformed into yeast strain L40 (Invitrogen), which contains a β-galactosidase reporter gene. The transformants were selected and mated (CITATION), and the resulting diploids were placed in medium selective for the diploids and containing X-Gal as a substrate for detection of the interaction. Selected pair-wise interactions were analyzed further by liquid assay as described previously (CITATION). Full-length open reading frames of Arabidopsis At1g21780 and AtRBX1 were cloned via Gateway reactions (Invitrogen) into a plant binary vector with a C-terminal modified TAP tag fusion and a N-terminal modified TAP tag fusion, respectively (CITATION). The transgenes were introduced individually into wild-type Arabidopsis plants by the floral dip infiltration method using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (pMP90). Transgenic plants were selected with gentamycin (200 μg/mL; Sigma-Aldrich). Arabidopsis proteins containing a BTB domain were searched in the PFAM protein families and domains database (CITATION). Sequence alignment (∼110 amino acid residues of the BTB domain) of the BTB protein families was conducted using ClustalX software (version 1.83) (CITATION). The Gonnet protein weight matrices (Gonnet 40, 80, 120, 160, 250, and 350 matrices [CITATION]) were selected, and the gap-opening and extension parameters were 10 and 0.2, respectively. Distance (mean standard distance) phylogenetic analysis was performed in PAUP 4.0 (score 3.41; CITATION). Bootstrap support (CITATION) for nodes was estimated using 1000 replicates under mean standard distance. Sequence data for the proteins used in the phylogenetic analysis were taken from the EMBL/GenBank databases, with the following accession numbers (Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus number with GenBank accession number in parentheses): At1g21780 (AAM65090), At5g19000 (AAM97116), At3g06190 (AAF30312), At2g39760 (NP_030522), At4g37610 (AAN15363), At1g01640 (AAF78396), At5g48510 (NP_199662), At3g43700 (CAB83071), At1g05690 (AAQ87006), At3g48360 (AAN31824), At5g63160 (AAR24650), C. elegans MEL-26 (NP_492449), AtCUL3A (CAC87120), AtCUL3B (AAG52544), and human CUL3 (NP_003581).
