!~ABS~! Cytosolic free calcium ([Ca2+]cyt) is a ubiquitous signalling component in plant cells (CITATION) . Numerous stimuli trigger sustained or transient elevations of [Ca2+]cyt that evoke downstream stimulus-specific responses. Generation of [Ca2+]cyt signals is effected through stimulus-induced opening of Ca2+-permeable ion channels that catalyse a flux of Ca2+ into the cytosol from extracellular or intracellular stores. Many classes of Ca2+ current have been characterized electrophysiologically in plant membranes (CITATION) . However, the identity of the ion channels that underlie these currents has until now remained obscure. Here we show that the TPC1 (‘two-pore channel 1’) gene of Arabidopsis thaliana encodes a class of Ca2+-dependent Ca2+-release channel that is known from numerous electrophysiological studies as the slow vacuolar channel (CITATION) . Slow vacuolar channels are ubiquitous in plant vacuoles, where they form the dominant conductance at micromolar [Ca2+]cyt. We show that a tpc1 knockout mutant lacks functional slow vacuolar channel activity and is defective in both abscisic acid-induced repression of germination and in the response of stomata to extracellular calcium. These studies unequivocally demonstrate a critical role of intracellular Ca2+-release channels in the physiological processes of plants.
!~RES~! In A. thaliana the TPC1 gene (AGI code At4g03560) is the only representative of the TPC gene family (CITATION) that is also present with one or two members in other dicotyledonous plants (CITATION) , monocotyledonous plants (CITATION) , gymnosperms (Pinus pinaster, GenBank accession number BX252040), mosses (Physcomitrella patens, GenBank accession number BQ039582), and animals (CITATION) . The corresponding protein comprises two fused Shaker-like units, each with six transmembrane spans, a number of basic residues in the fourth transmembrane domain of each Shaker-like unit, a cytosolic linker region with two EF hands—that is, helix-loop-helix domains—suggestive of a role in Ca2+ binding (Fig. 1a), and several putative phosphorylation sites. Expression of plant TPC1 proteins in a yeast mutant lacking endogenous channel activity results in complementation of two phenotypic properties of the mutant—mating-induced cell death and low basal Ca2+ influx—suggesting that TPC1 might form a Ca2+-permeable channel (CITATION) . [[FIGURE]] To determine the intracellular location of the TPC1 protein in planta, we constructed a TPC1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein and introduced it into Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts. Figure 1b and c show images of protoplasts expressing GFP alone. In intact protoplasts, fluorescence appears as a clear band surrounding most of the cell, but is also present in a cytosol-rich region that surrounds the nucleus and chloroplasts. Fluorescence rapidly disperses after disruption of protoplasts expressing GFP alone, suggesting a cytosolic location for the GFP (Fig. 1c). Images of cells expressing the TPC1–GFP fusion protein are shown in Fig. 1d and e. The intact protoplast exhibits GFP fluorescence that is distinct from the plasma membrane and strongly suggestive of an association with intracellular membranes (Fig. 1d). Intact vacuoles released from protoplasts show fluorescence that remains with the vacuolar membrane (Fig. 1e). Further analyses confirmed the vacuolar location of TPC1: western blots comparing intact vacuole-derived membranes and microsomes prepared from Arabidopsis shoots clearly show the presence of TPC1 in the vacuolar fraction that is almost free of plasma membrane (Fig. 1f). In addition, proteomic analyses of the vacuolar membrane from Arabidopsis suspension culture (CITATION) or rosette leaves (CITATION) identified TPC1 as the only annotated cation channel, a finding that we have independently verified with Arabidopsis shoot material (data not shown). The fact that vacuolar proteomics reveals TPC1 alone, and no other known vacuolar cation channels such as KCO1 (ref. 13), suggests that TPC1 is relatively abundant in plant vacuoles. To identify which of the many previously reported vacuolar ion channel activities might be associated with the presence of TPC1, we investigated the electrophysiological properties of vacuoles from Arabidopsis plants varying in their level of TPC1 expression. For this purpose, we isolated a T-DNA knockout line, tpc1-2, from the Salk collection (Fig. 2a). This line has a truncated TPC1 transcript (Fig. 2b) and no detectable levels of wild-type TPC1 protein (Fig. 2c). TPC1 expression of another Salk T-DNA line, tpc1-1, was only knocked down by 70–80%, and TPC1 protein was detectable. Therefore, no further analyses were performed with tpc1-1. In addition, we created Arabidopsis plants constitutively overexpressing TPC1 under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. The two TPC1-overexpressing lines used, 5.6 and 10.21, were found to have a 25 to 30-fold increase in TPC1 transcript levels when assessed by real-time polymerase chain reaction with reverse transcription (RT–PCR; Fig. 2d). [[FIGURE]] The presence of two Ca2+-binding EF hands in the TPC1 protein, as well as its vacuolar location, prompted us to investigate whether TPC1 is, or forms part of, the slow vacuolar (SV) channel, which has a steep [Ca2+]cyt dependence (CITATION) . The SV channel is ubiquitous in plants and was one of the first plant ion channels to be characterized (CITATION) . It forms the predominant vacuolar membrane conductance, and transports a wide range of cations, including calcium (CITATION) . The SV channel is therefore believed to play a role in cation homeostasis and to function in Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release from the vacuole (CITATION) . Channel activation is steeply voltage-dependent, typically over positive membrane voltages, although the activation mechanism is complicated and sensitive to many factors. Figure 3a shows recordings of channel activity in an excised luminal-side-out membrane patch from a mesophyll vacuole of wild-type Col-0 Arabidopsis. Slowly activating, outward-rectifying currents were recorded only in the presence of high concentrations of Ca2+ (> 5 µM) on the cytosolic side, as used here in the recording pipette. This steeply [Ca2+]cyt-dependent (Fig. 3b) and voltage-dependent current is typical for plant vacuolar membranes and is diagnostic of SV channel activity (CITATION) . In symmetrical, 100 mM KCl solutions, SV-type currents were observed in 17 of the 49 vacuoles patched (35%), and the unitary channel conductance was 54 ± 6 pS (n > 250 vacuoles). Figure 3c shows that under bi-ionic conditions (50 mM CaCl2 and 100 mM KCl on the cytoplasmic and luminal side of the vacuolar membrane, respectively) the single-channel conductance decreased to around 11 pS. In common with previous work (CITATION) , this shows that in these conditions the Ca2+ flux is approximately eight times smaller than the K+ flux at comparable concentrations. However, on the basis of reversal potentials, relative Ca2+/K+ permeability ratios greater than one have been calculated (CITATION) . This disparity of permeability ratios is indicative of a multi-ion pore, a notion confirmed by the observation that the presence of both Ca2+ and K+ leads to anomalous mole fraction effects (CITATION) . [[FIGURE]] Using identical recording conditions to those for Fig. 3a, Fig. 3d shows currents from a luminal side-out patch of a mesophyll vacuole from a tpc1-2 mutant that was grown in identical conditions to the wild type. Clearly, there are no detectable time-dependent currents in the mutant lacking TPC1 protein. In total, recordings were obtained with 62 vacuoles from 10 different tpc1-2 plants at various developmental stages. Time-dependent currents were not observed in any of these, although occasionally a small cation conductance (10–12 pS) channel with the hallmark characteristics of the vacuolar K+ (VK) channel (CITATION) was observed. The difference between the number of observed SV-type currents in wild-type and mutant plants is highly significant (P < 10-7). Interestingly, previous work has demonstrated a decrease in SV-type currents in a KCO1 channel mutant (CITATION) , suggesting that KCO1 may be involved in the regulation of this conductance. In contrast, the complete abolition of SV currents in the tpc1-2 mutant strongly suggests that TPC1 constitutes an essential component of the SV channel. To confirm that the SV currents did indeed result from the presence of TPC1, we transformed tpc1-2 mutant protoplasts with the TPC1–GFP construct and assayed transformed vacuoles for the presence of SV currents. Figure 3e clearly shows the presence of slowly activating outward-rectifying currents, demonstrating that the TPC1–GFP gene successfully complemented the mutant phenotype. In all, SV-type currents were observed in 11 of 27 vacuoles (41%) from TPC1–GFP-transformed protoplasts. Further demonstration of the role of the TPC1 protein in catalysing SV-type currents emerged from lines constitutively overexpressing TPC1 under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. Several lines were identified as having increased levels of TPC1 transcript (Fig. 2d). Two of the lines were examined by patch clamp analysis, and in both the SV currents were markedly enhanced. In the example shown in Fig. 3f, currents in a luminal-side-out patch attain around 800 pA—considerably higher than commonly observed in the wild type (Fig. 3a). Figure 3g shows that the number of functional SV channels per patch was consistently higher in overexpressors: in wild-type vacuoles, around 9 channels per patch were recorded on average whereas in TPC1-overexpressing lines the average number of observed channels was around 24. Previous studies have demonstrated that TPC1 is ubiquitously expressed in all tissues of Arabidopsis: roots, flowers and leaves (CITATION) , including guard cells (CITATION) . To ascribe a physiological function to TPC1, we therefore analysed the lines lacking or overexpressing TPC1 for a phenotype using conditions that are known to involve Ca2+ signalling in various tissues. The hormone abscisic acid (ABA) regulates many aspects of plant growth and development and has been shown in a number of studies to effect downstream responses via Ca2+-dependent and Ca2+-independent signalling networks (CITATION) . One process in which ABA plays a profound role is seed germination, where this stress hormone exerts a significantly inhibitory effect (CITATION) . Figure 4a shows that wild type, mutant and overexpressors take a similar time to germinate in the absence of ABA. The tpc1-2 mutant, however, yields a phenotype that is less sensitive to ABA, while two TPC1-overexpressing lines are ABA-hypersensitive over a wide range of ABA concentrations (Fig. 4a–c). [[FIGURE]] It has also been well established that regulation of stomatal aperture is Ca2+-dependent, with closing stimuli such as ABA and extracellular Ca2+ evoking a rise in [Ca2+]cyt that precedes the loss of turgor by the surrounding guard cells (CITATION) . Figure 4d shows that ABA applied over a range of concentrations inhibited opening to an identical extent in wild type and in the tpc1-2 mutant. Similarly, no abnormal response was noted in the mutant with respect to ABA-promoted stomatal closure (data not shown). There are two possible explanations for these results. The first is that TPC1 is not involved in guard cell ABA signalling. Second, the robustness of guard cell ABA signalling, which exhibits properties reminiscent of scale-free networks (CITATION) , might compensate for loss of TPC1 through alternative cation-mobilizing systems. Figure 4e confirms the absence of a stomatal phenotype with respect to ABA in the tpc1-2 mutant and in a TPC1-overexpressing line. But whereas wild-type and TPC1-overexpressing plants exhibited statistically significant (P < 0.05) reductions in aperture (relative to untreated epidermal peels) when treated with a high concentration of extracellular Ca2+, the tpc1-2 mutant was unresponsive. These observations show that while ABA is able to generate guard cell responses via TPC1-independent pathways, there is a requirement for TPC1 in responding to elevated extracellular [Ca2+]. In this respect, the tpc1-2 guard cell phenotype mirrors that of a vacuolar H+-ATPase mutant, det3 (ref. 22), which exhibits defective stomatal closure in response to external Ca2+ but not to ABA—a difference that is reflected in the respective responses of [Ca2+]cyt to these closing stimuli. The role of the SV channel in vacuolar Ca2+ release is still unresolved (CITATION) and, because the channel is relatively non-selective among mono- and divalent cations, the observed phenotypes might derive from TPC1 functioning in general cation homeostasis and/or turgor regulation as well as in apects of Ca2+ signalling. Indeed, it has been suggested that in guard cells SV channels mediate a large proportion of vacuolar K+ release leading to closure of the pore (CITATION) . The balance between the dual functions—of cation homeostasis and Ca2+ release—will depend on the combination of the wide variety of factors known to alter the threshold activation voltage of the SV channel. These factors include redox potential, phosphorylation state, Ca2+/calmodulin, pH and free Mg2+ (ref. 2). The present findings elucidate the molecular basis of a plant Ca2+-permeable channel, and demonstrate roles played by this channel in essential physiological processes. The TPC1 channel is not only expressed ubiquitously in plants, but is also present in mammalian epithelia, where its function remains obscure (CITATION) . The molecular identification of the plant SV channel now opens the way to address the detailed role of this ubiquitous class of cation channel in cell signalling.
!~MM~! Seven putative A. thaliana TPC1 T-DNA mutant lines were identified and retrieved from the Salk collection (CITATION) . PCR analysis and sequencing of the left border of the T-DNA insert confirmed the presence of an insert in two of these lines, tpc1-1 (SALK_125658) and tpc1-2 (SALK_145413). Real-time RT–PCR (ABI Prism 7000 sequence detection system, Applied Biosystems) using primers spanning the insertion site showed that transcript levels in tpc1-1 were reduced by only 70–80%. In contrast, full-length transcripts were not detectable in tpc1-2 (Fig. 2). For overexpression of TPC1, a TPC1 complementary DNA was cloned downstream of a CaMV 35S promoter into the pBI121 vector, from which the GUS coding sequence had been removed. Arabidopsis was transformed with the pBI121-TPC1 vector by floral dip (CITATION) . TPC1 overexpression levels were determined by real-time RT–PCR, using UBQ10 as a constitutive control. An mGFP5 cDNA was amplified using primers containing the BamHI site and inserted into the vector pART7 (ref. 25) to give the pART7GFP vector. A cDNA of TPC1 without a stop codon was amplified from A. thaliana Col-0 by RT–PCR using forward and reverse primers containing XhoI and XmaI sites, respectively, and inserted into the pART7GFP vector to give the pART7TPC1GFP vector encoding a carboxy-terminal fusion of TPC1 onto GFP under control of a CaMV 35S promoter. Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts were isolated and transformed with pART7GFP and pART7TPC1GFP plasmids as described (CITATION) . After 24–48 h of incubation, GFP fluorescence of protoplasts and vacuoles was observed by confocal laser scanning microscopy using a Zeiss LSM510 Meta based on an Axiovert 200M microscope (Zeiss). GFP fluorescence was determined by operating the microscope in lambda mode and spectrally unmixing the images using pre-recorded spectra of GFP and autofluorescence. Surface-sterilized Arabidopsis seeds of identical age were cold-stratified (4 °C) in the dark for three days in de-ionized water containing 10 mM MES-KOH (pH 6.0) and ABA as indicated in Fig. 4a–c. The seeds were plated on agar containing the same concentrations of MES-KOH and ABA. Emergence of radicals was scored using a stereomicroscope. Experiments consisted of three replicate plates with 50 seeds per line and treatment, and were repeated three times. Epidermal strips of fully expanded leaves from 5-week-old Arabidopsis plants grown under short-day conditions were floated in the dark on CO2-free buffer containing 10 mM MES-KOH (pH 6.15). To promote the opening of stomata, epidermal strips were placed onto illuminated and aerated CO2-free buffer containing 50 mM KCl and 10 mM MES-KOH (pH 6.15), and 100 µM CaCl2 unless indicated otherwise. Strips were incubated in white light for 2.5 h at 22 °C and were subsequently mounted on glass slides for determination of stomatal apertures using a Leica DM IRB microscope. A. thaliana mesophyll protoplasts were isolated as described (CITATION) . Vacuoles were released from protoplasts by washing protoplasts with a solution containing 10 mM EDTA, 10 mM EGTA, pH 8 with an osmolarity of 350 mOsM. General patch-clamp methodology was as described (CITATION) . Symmetrical solutions used in Fig. 3a, c–e contained 100 mM KCl, 2 mM CaCl2 and 5 mM MES-Tris (pH 6.5). Experimental solutions were adjusted to 400 mOsM with sorbitol. The average number of channels recorded in Fig. 3f was calculated by dividing the total current at 100 mV by 5 pA (the approximate current through one 54 pS channel at 100 mV). Microsomal membranes of 6-week-old whole Arabidopsis shoots were isolated as described (CITATION) . To isolate vacuolar membranes, intact vacuoles were first collected from 6-week-old whole Arabidopsis shoots as described (CITATION) . Identical amounts of protein (2 µg per lane) were resolved by SDS–polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS–PAGE), transferred onto nitrocellulose membranes (Optitran BA-S 85, Schleicher & Schuell) by semidry-blotting, and probed with rabbit antibody (Eurogentec) raised against the amino-terminus of Arabidopsis TPC1 (MEDPLIGRDSLGGGGC) or Arabidopsis AHA2 H+-ATPase (gift of M. Palmgren). The horseradish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibody was detected by chemiluminescence (ECL, Amersham).
