!~ABS~! SU(VAR)3–9 like histone methyltransferases control heterochromatic domains in eukaryotes. In Arabidopsis, 10 SUVH genes encode SU(VAR)3–9 homologues where SUVH1, SUVH2 and SUVH4 (KRYPTONITE) represent distinct subgroups of SUVH genes. Loss of SUVH1 and SUVH4 causes weak reduction of heterochromatic histone H3K9 dimethylation, whereas in SUVH2 null plants mono‐ and dimethyl H3K9, mono‐ and dimethyl H3K27, and monomethyl H4K20, the histone methylation marks of Arabidopsis heterochromatin are significantly reduced. Like animal SU(VAR)3–9 proteins SUVH2 displays strong dosage‐dependent effects. Loss of function suppresses, whereas overexpression enhances, gene silencing, causes ectopic heterochromatization and significant growth defects. Furthermore, modification of transgene silencing by SUVH2 is partially transmitted to the offspring plants. This epigenetic stability correlates with heritable changes in DNA methylation. Mutational dissection of SUVH2 indicates an implication of its N‐terminus and YDG domain in directing DNA methylation to target sequences, a prerequisite for consecutive histone methylation. Gene silencing by SUVH2 depends on MET1 and DDM1, but not CMT3. In Arabidopsis, SUVH2 with its histone H3K9 and H4K20 methylation activity has a central role in heterochromatic gene silencing.
!~RES~! The heterochromatin‐associated SU(VAR)3–9 proteins control repressive chromatin structures by histone H3K9 methylation (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In contrast to animals and fungi, which have one or two Su(var)3–9 homologues, in Arabidopsis 10 SUVH genes encode SU(VAR)3–9 homologous proteins (CITATION). Tree reconstruction of 21 SUVH protein sequences from different plant species results in four clearly distinct subgroups of SUVH proteins in angiosperms (FIG-REF). Branching of both moss and fern SUVH fragments at the root of the angiosperm SUVH subgroups argues for a phylogenetic split of SUVH genes during early evolution of seed plants. The SUVH4‐like genes are more distant to all groups of SUVH genes. Only SUVH4‐like genes contain introns and retrotransposition might have been involved in evolution of the different SUVH gene families. Branching of gymnosperm PtaSUV1f with the SUVH4 subgroup suggests that functional differentiation of SUVH proteins had already occurred before the angiosperm–gymnosperm split. [[FIGURE]] To identify chromatin targets of the Arabidopsis SU(VAR)3–9 homologues SUVH1 and SUVH2 proteins, we studied their nuclear distribution in transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing myc or EGFP fusion proteins. The SUVH1 and SUVH2 fusion proteins associate with the DAPI bright regions of interphase nuclei (FIG-REF), which represent pericentromeric heterochromatin in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION). We also tested nuclear distribution of the Drosophila SU(VAR)3–9 and HP1 heterochromatin proteins in Arabidopsis. The Drosophila proteins in Arabidopsis also associate with heterochromatin (FIG-REF), indicating conserved mechanisms of heterochromatin association of these proteins in plants and animals. SUVH1 and SUVH2 proteins are both heterochromatin associated and could comprise redundant functions. Alternatively, these proteins could control distinct heterochromatic histone methylation marks as well as their combinatorial interplay. We analysed the effect of SUVH1, SUVH2 and SUVH4 on heterochromatic histone H3 and H4 methylation marks using specific histone methylation antibodies (CITATION). In these studies, we used loss‐of‐function T‐DNA insertion mutations or antisense lines (cf. Supplementary Figures 1 and 2). None of the insertional mutations or the antisense lines show a significant phenotypic defect in homozygous constitution. Arabidopsis heterochromatin is enriched in methylated DNA and mono‐ and dimethylated histone H3K9 (CITATION; FIG-REF). Other heterochromatic histone methylation marks in Arabidopsis are mono‐ and dimethyl H3K27 and monomethyl H4K20 (FIG-REF). In contrast, trimethyl H3K9, trimethyl H3K27, and di‐ and trimethyl H4K20 are found together with methylated H3K4 and H3K36 in Arabidopsis euchromatin (FIG-REF). In our studies loss‐of‐function mutations of SUVH1 and SUVH4 appear to show only weak reduction of mono‐ and dimethyl H3K9 in pericentromeric heterochromatin (FIG-REF and Supplementary Figure 1). In contrast, SUVH2 loss‐of‐function mutations strongly reduce all heterochromatin‐specific histone and DNA methylation marks (FIG-REF). The most dramatic effect of SUVH2 is on H4K20 monomethylation. Reduction of DNA methylation at heterochromatic sequences in SUVH2 null plants was further quantified by bisulphite sequence analysis of Athila transposons (Supplementary Figure 3). In vitro analysis shows that SUVH2 is a nucleosome‐dependent HMTase and methylates histone H3 and H4 in recombinant nucleosomes (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Drosophila Su(var)3–9 is a haplo‐ and triplo‐dosage‐dependent modifier of heterochromatic gene silencing (CITATION). In order to study the dosage‐dependent effects of Arabidopsis SUVH1 and SUVH2, we constructed transgenes with the 35S* promotor (CITATION) or used a glucocorticoid‐mediated transcriptional system, which allows controlled induction of gene expression by dexamethasone treatment (CITATION). Overexpression of SUVH1 has no significant effect on pericentromeric heterochromatin and the protein remains heterochromatin associated (FIG-REF). In contrast, after overexpression, SUVH2 shows dispersed nuclear distribution, resulting in ectopic heterochromatization. By electron microscopic analysis, additional blocks of heterochromatic material can be detected (FIG-REF). Immunocytological analysis of SUVH2 overexpression plants reveals a significant increase in mono‐ and dimethyl H3K9, mono‐ and dimethyl H3K27, and monomethyl H4K20, as well as cytosine methylation (FIG-REF). We have quantified the dosage‐dependent effects of SUVH2 on five histone methylation marks by Western analysis of bulk histones. In suvh2 mutant plants, heterochromatic H3K9 mono‐ and dimethylation, H3K27 monomethylation and H4K20 monomethylation are significantly reduced (FIG-REF), whereas SUVH2 overexpression causes enhancement of H3K9 dimethylation and H4K20 monomethylation (FIG-REF). In contrast, trimethylation of H3K9, which is a euchromatic histone methylation mark in Arabidopsis, is significantly reduced after SUVH2 overexpression (FIG-REF). Significant reduction in immunostaining for other euchromatic histone modification marks like dimethyl H3K4, acetyl H3K9 and trimethyl H3K27 is also found in SUVH2 overexpression plants (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] None of the 24 35S*∷mycSUVH1 overexpression lines nor the GVG∷SUVH1‐EGFP lines after dexamethasone treatment show any phenotypic defects (not shown). In contrast, four of 24 independent 35S*∷mycSUVH2 transgenic lines show significant growth reduction (mini‐plant phenotype) and a curled cotyledon phenotype (FIG-REF). Western blot analysis shows direct correlation between the extent of SUVH2 overexpression and the strength of mini‐plant growth defects (FIG-REF). Line 35S*∷mycSUVH2#4 with lower amount of additional SUVH2 is only weakly affected, whereas the three lines 35S*∷mycSUVH2#5, #6 and #22 with higher amount of SUVH2 manifest a strong mini‐plant phenotype. Similarly, the GVG∷SUVH2‐EGFP lines manifest a mini‐plant phenotype only after dexamethasone treatment (FIG-REF). Significant rescue of SUVH2 overexpression phenotypes is found in suvh2/+; 35S*∷mycSUVH2#6/+ plants by introducing a suvh2 null allele (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] For functional dissection of SUVH2, we isolated mutations within the 35S*∷mycSUVH2#5 transgene after EMS mutagenesis. These mutations were identified as dominant suppressors of the curled cotyledon phenotype in M1 seedlings. All confirmed dominant suppressors rescued the mini‐plant growth defect. In M3 two classes of mutant lines could be established. In 224 lines the suppressor mutation and the SUVH2 transgene segregate independently, whereas in 96 lines complete linkage is found. The latter class represents 35S*∷mycSUVH2#5 transgene mutations and we studied the functional consequence of seven such mutations (FIG-REF). All are missense mutations located either in the N‐terminus (5–1), the YDG (5–2) or the SET domain (5–3 to 5–7) of SUVH2 (FIG-REF). Only the N‐terminus mutation 5–1 interferes with ectopic nuclear distribution of SUVH2 (FIG-REF). Mutations 5–2 and 5–3 located in the YDG domain and the region between the YDG domain and the preSET region, respectively, cause loss of ectopic 5‐methylcytosine, H3K9 dimethylation and H4K20 monomethylation, although ectopic distribution of SUVH2 is not affected (FIG-REF). Mutations in the SET domain (5–3 to 5–7) eliminate ectopic H3K9 and H4K20 methylation, but leave ectopic DNA methylation unaffected. [[FIGURE]] In order to study SUVH2 overexpression effects on heterochromatic silencing of endogenous sequences, we analysed expression of Athila transposons. Overexpression of SUVH2 causes strong repression of Athila, whereas all SUVH2 transgene mutations rescue this silencing effect (FIG-REF). Immunocytological and bisulphite sequence analysis shows that none of the SET domain mutations reduce DNA hypermethylation at Athila although its silencing is released (FIG-REF and Supplementary Figure 3). Taken together, our mutant analysis resolves a sequence of molecular events connected with SUVH2‐induced heterochromatic gene silencing. Mutation 5–1 indicates a possible role of the SUVH2 N‐terminus in target sequences recognition, whereas the YDG domain region appears to be involved in directing DNA methylation to these sequences. DNA methylation alone is not sufficient for silencing, but rather functions as a mark directing SUVH2‐dependent histone methylation to sequences subjected to silencing. Moreover, our data suggest that SUVH2‐mediated DNA methylation precedes histone methylation. To study dosage‐dependent effects of SUVH proteins on repeat‐induced TGS, we used a new type of transgene constructs that contain four tandem copies of the luciferase gene (cf. Materials and methods). The LUC2 transgene shows moderate luciferase silencing, which is significantly enhanced by SUVH2 (FIG-REF) but not SUVH1 overexpression (data not shown). Significant enhancement of TGS is already found in crosses with the 35S*∷mycSUVH2#4 line showing only weak growth defects (FIG-REF), indicating that TGS is already efficiently enhanced by low levels of SUVH2 overexpression. The loss‐of‐function effect of SUVH2 on TGS was studied using a specific antisense line. Out of 25 independent 35S*∷SUVH2as antisense lines, we selected line SUVH2as#11 causing complete elimination of SUVH2 transcript, whereas other tested SUVH genes are not affected (cf. Supplementary Figure 1). After a cross of SUVH2as#11/SUVH2as#11 with LUC2 homozygous plants, all SUVH2as#11/+; LUC2/+ offspring show strong suppression of TGS (FIG-REF). Significant suppressor effects are also seen with antisense lines only partially eliminating the SUVH2 transcript (not shown). Our experiments reveal the dosage‐dependent modifier effect of SUVH2 on TGS. Overexpression enhances whereas loss‐of‐function suppresses TGS. We further studied the epigenetic stability of SUVH2 modified LUC2 transgene silencing in progeny plants, lacking SUVH2 overexpression or antisense constructs which were generated by a backcross of the F1 progeny with wild‐type plants. Partial epigenetic stability of modified LUC2 transgene silencing is found in the offspring plants for the enhanced as well as suppressed state of LUC2. Reciprocal crosses produced identical results (data not shown). Reversion to the level typical for control plants is found in offspring of the second backcross generation (FIG-REF). To study whether epigenetic maintenance of SUVH2‐modified TGS is based on stable transmission of changes in DNA methylation, we performed bisulphite sequence analysis of the LUC2 transgene. In plants produced by the first backcross (BC1) to wild type, the LUC2 transgene inherited either from SUVH2 overexpression or SUVH2 antisense plants still shows increased and decreased DNA methylation, respectively (FIG-REF). The data suggest that DNA methylation is involved in maintenance of the SUVH2‐induced epigenetic effects. [[FIGURE]] We analysed the effect of SUVH2 on DNA methylation at the LUC2 transgene, GUS transgene repeats and Athila transposon sequences (FIG-REF and Supplementary Figure 3). All these sequences show already in wild‐type a consistent amount of DNA methylation. In our studies, we compared CpNpN (N, no G) nonsymmetric with CpG and CpNpG symmetric DNA methylation. Loss or overexpression of SUVH2 affects both symmetrical and nonsymmetrical DNA methylation at all studied sequences. In suvh2 mutant as well as SUVH2as#11 antisense plants, strongest reduction of nonsymmetrical methylation at CpC is observed (Supplementary Figure 3). Since DNA methylase MET1 is suggested to function in maintenance of cytosine methylation (CITATION), we studied at the completely silenced LUC7 transgene the effects of a newly isolated strong met1‐h1 mutation on SUVH2‐induced transgene silencing (FIG-REF). Furthermore, we also studied interaction between SUVH2 and a newly isolated strong cmt3‐h1 CHROMOMETHYLASE mutation (FIG-REF). In LUC7 met1‐h1 and LUC7 cmt3‐h1 plants, silencing of the LUC7 transgene is significantly released (FIG-REF). LUC7 transgene silencing is differentially affected in 35S*∷mycSUVH2#5/+; LUC7/LUC7; met1‐h1/met1‐h1 and 35S*∷mycSUVH2#5/+; LUC7/LUC7; cmt3‐h1/cmt3‐h1 plants. The suppressor effect of met1‐h1 dominates the enhancer effect of SUVH2 overexpression, whereas the enhancer effect of SUVH2 dominates the suppressor effect of cmt3‐h1. These results demonstrate that transgene silencing by SUVH2 depends on MET1, but not significantly on CMT3. [[FIGURE]] In addition to DNA methylases, the DDM1 protein, which shows homology to the SWI2/SNF2 family of chromatin remodelling factors, controls DNA methylation independent of their sequence context (CITATION; CITATION). In 35S*∷mycSUVH2#6/+; ddm1–2/ddm1–2 plants, the mini‐plant phenotype caused by SUVH2 overexpression as well as ectopic dimethyl H3K9, monomethyl H4K20 and 5‐methylcytosine are all significantly suppressed (FIG-REF). Our results suggest that the function of SUVH2 in heterochromatin formation and gene silencing depends on both MET1 and DDM1. Genetic interaction of SUVH2 with different silencing factors also demonstrate that the clear‐cut SUVH2 overexpression phenotypes allow systematic genetic dissection of functions involved in the control of heterochromatic gene silencing in Arabidopsis.
!~MM~! The 35S*∷mycSUVH1, 35S*∷mycSUVH2, 35S*∷mycDmSU(VAR)3–9 and 35S*∷mycDmHP1 Arabidopsis transgenes were introduced with the pBI1‐4tr vector. SUVH1 and SUVH2 ORFs were PCR‐amplified from genomic DNA using primers Su1start‐Su1stop and Su2start‐Su2stop. All primers are listed in Supplementary Table 1. SalI fragments (SUVH1 and SUVH2) and the Drosophila BamHI (DmSU(VAR)3–9) and EcoRI–BamHI (DmHP1) fragments (CITATION) were cloned with 3xmyc in frame in sense orientation and in antisense orientation without 3xmyc (35S*∷SUVH1as and 35S*∷SUVH2as transgenes) into pBI1‐4tr, which was derived from pBI121 (Clontech) after insertion of a 1.4 kb XbaI–SacI fragment of pKEx4tr (CITATION) containing the 35*S promotor (CITATION). For controlled ectopic expression, GVG∷SUVH1EGFP, GVG∷SUVH2EGFP transgenic plants were generated. SalI–NheI fragments of SUVH1, SUVH2 and GFP were cloned in frame into the XhoI–SpeI site of pTA7002 (CITATION). The SalI–NheI EGFP fragment was PCR‐amplified from CD3‐327 (ABRC Stock Center) with primers GFP‐Nhestop and GFPstart. Expression of the SUVH1–GFP and SUVH2–GFP fusion proteins was induced by 0.01 mM dexamethasone (Sigma) treatment. All constructs were confirmed by sequencing using an ABI 377 sequencer. For studies of repeat‐dependent TGS, the pGPTV 2xLUC Kan 2xLUC (LUC2 and LUC7 lines) vector was constructed. The NcoI–XbaI LUC fragment from pSP‐LUC (Promega) was cloned into pRT100 (CITATION) and, subsequently, the LUC PstI fragment from pRT100LUC cloned into the PstI site of partially PstI digested pRT100, resulting in pRT100‐2xLUC. After HindIII digestion, the 2xLUC repeat was cloned into pGPTV‐Kan, the resulting construct was digested with PstI–HindIII and the PstI–HindIII LUC fragment cloned into the PstI–HindIII site of pGEM‐3zf+ (Promega), resulting in pGEM‐2xLUC. KpnI–HindIII digestion of pGEM‐2xLUC produces a 2xLUC fragment, which was cloned into pBC‐pAnos, resulting in pBC‐pAnos‐2xLUC. After EcoRI–Ecl136II digestion of pBC‐pAnos‐2xLUC, the 2LUC‐nos‐ter fragment was inserted into the EcoRI–SmaI site of pBluescript KS (Stratagene). The BamHI fragment of pBluescript 2xLUC‐nos‐ter was cloned into the BamHI site of pGPTV‐Kan 2xLUC producing the pGPTV 2xLUC Kan 2xLUC vector. The GUS27 line was produced with a pGPTV‐3xuidA‐Kan vector containing three tandem copies of the uidA gene, provided by Dr Bettina Tschiersch (Institute of Plant Biochemistry, Halle). All binary vectors were transferred to the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (CITATION) and used to transform Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (Col) plants by vacuum infiltration. T1 seeds were plated on MS medium supplemented with kanamycin or hygromycin. The plates were left at 4°C in the dark for 1 day and then transferred to a growth chamber and incubated at 23°C under continuous light. Plants were transferred to soil after 2 weeks and grown in a chamber with 16‐h‐light/8‐h‐dark cycle at 23°C. The sequence‐indexed Arabidopsis T‐DNA insertion mutants of SUVH1, SUVH2 and SUVH4 (SALK 003675, 079574, 105816, 130630) were kindly provided by the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory. The new cmt3‐h1 (P715L) and met1‐h1 (E1272K) mutant alleles were selected as suppressors of LUC7 transgene silencing after EMS treatment of LUC7 homozygous plants (I Hofmann, unpublished). The alleles strongly reduce CpNpG and CpG DNA methylation, respectively. The ddm1–2 mutant allele is described in CITATION. All mutant material is available upon request. 35S*∷mycSUVH2#6 and antisense 35S*∷SUVH2as#11 plants were used as female parent in all crosses with LUC2, LUC7 and GUS27 homozygous lines. Genotypes in offspring were determined with the specific primers 35S‐1HindIII, 2RNAi3BamH1, Lu/1626B and Lu8F, Gus‐start and Gus‐stop or S2‐1631B and mycSal1 (Supplementary Table 1). Luciferase activity was monitored with a CCD camera system employing Argus 50 Software (Hamamatsu Photonic Deutschland) after spraying of plants with 1.3mM Luciferin (Molecular Probes). GUS histochemical staining was performed as previously described (CITATION). Functional interaction of SUVH2 with MET1 and CMT3 in transcriptional silencing of the LUC7 transgene was studied in crosses of the 35S*∷mycSUVH2#5 overexpression line with homozygous LUC7; met1‐h1 and LUC7; cmt3‐h1 mutant plants. F1 35S*∷mycSUVH2#5/+; LUC7/+; met1h‐1/+ and 35S*∷mycSUVH2#5/+; LUC7/+; cmt3‐h1/+ plants were selfed over two generations and genotypes in F3 plants originated from LUC7 homozygous F2 plants by using the derived cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence primers Met1‐6f and Met1‐6r or CMT3‐eF and CMT3‐eR (Supplementary Table 1). Amplified fragments were digested with Eco57I (met1‐h1) or BspI (cmt3‐h1). In crosses with ddm1–2, the F2 offspring originated from 35S*∷mycSUVH2#6/+; ddm1–2/+ F1 plants were analysed using primers DDM1f and ddm1–2dRsaI (CITATION). The 35S*∷mycSUVH2#6 transgene was identified with primers 35S‐1HindIII and S2RNAi3X/Bstop. To screen for SUVH2 transgene mutations, seeds of the 35S*∷mycSUVH2#5 overexpression line were mutagenized with ethylmethane sulphonate (EMS, 90 mM). M2 progeny seedlings were grown on agar medium with kanamycin and scored after 10 days for a non‐curled cotyledon phenotype. Putative mutants were transferred to soil and genomic DNA PCR‐amplified with SUVH2 transgene‐specific primers 35S‐1HindIII and S2RNAi3X/Bstop. The SUVH2 transgenes were sequenced using primers S2RNAi3X/Bstop, 2RNAi5‐BamH1F, 2RNAi5X B and 2RNAi3BamH1. For all immunocytological analyses, young rosette leaves from Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia plants were used. Leaf pieces were fixed in 4% formaldehyde in PBS on a glass slide, chopped, covered with coverslips and squashed. Slides were freezed in liquid nitrogen and transferred immediately into PBS after removing the coverslips. The slides were pre‐incubated for 30 min at 37°C in 1% BSA in PBS and incubated with the following antibodies (1:100): α‐mono‐, α‐di‐ and α‐trimethyl H3K9, α‐mono‐, α‐di‐ and α‐trimethyl H3K27, α‐di‐ and α‐trimethyl H3K36, α‐di‐ and α‐trimethyl H4K20, α‐dimethyl H3K4, α‐acetyl H3K9, α‐monomethyl H4K20 (Upstate). Detection of antibodies was performed with Alexa‐488 conjugated secondary antibodies (1:200; Molecular Probes). For detection of myc‐tagged fusion proteins and 5‐methylcytosine, leaves were fixed for 1 h in cold methanol:acetic acid (3:1), washed in citrate buffer (0.01 M citric acid monohydrate, 0.01 M trisodium citrate‐2‐hydrate, pH 4.8) and digested with 20% pectinase (Onozuka R‐10) and 2% cellulase (Merk) in citrate buffer at 37°C for 30 min. The preparations were washed for 30 min in citrate buffer, squashed and coverslips were removed after freezing on dry ice. For detection of myc‐tagged fusion proteins, slides were washed in PBS, preincubated for 30 min at 37°C in 5% dry milk/PBS and incubated with mouse monoclonal α‐myc (1:30; Labvision). For detection of 5‐methylcytosine, slides were baked after enzyme treatment at 60°C for 30 min, denatured in a 70% formamide, 2 × SSC, 50 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), washed in ice‐cold PBS and preincubated in 1% BSA in PBS for 30 min at 37°C, followed by incubation with mouse monoclonal α‐5‐methylcytosine (1:400; Eurogenetech). For antibody detection Alexa‐488 conjugated secondary antibodies (1:200; Molecular Probes) were used. All preparations were washed in PBS, stained with DAPI in mounting solution and examined with Zeiss Axioscop fluorescence microscope. For electron microscopic analysis, plant material was processed as described previously (CITATION). Ultrathin sections were observed with an EM900 transmission electron microscope (Carl Zeiss NTS). GST constructs used for the assays were Arabidopsis SUVH2 amino acids 291–651 and Drosophila SU(VAR)3–9 amino acids 305–635 (CITATION). Generation and purification of the GST fusion proteins and histone methyltransferase assay were performed as described previously (CITATION), with about 2 μg recombinant protein and 1 μg reconstituted recombinant nucleosomes. Cytosine methylation was assayed by the bisulphite genomic sequencing (CITATION) with 2 μg of EcoRI digested and alkali denatured genomic DNA. Denatured DNA was incubated in 1.2 ml freshly prepared 3.1 M sodium bisulphite/0.5 mM hydoquinone (Sigma), pH 5.0 at 95°C for 1 h, followed by desalting (QIAaexII, Quiagen), desulphonation and neutralization. DNA was precipitated, resuspended in 100 μl of 1 mM Tris, pH 8.0 and stored at −20°C. Gene fragments were PCR amplified and cloned into pGEM (Promega) for sequencing. For each genotype, 10–15 independent clones were analysed. Proteins from approximately 1 g leaf tissue were isolated as described (CITATION), separated on SDS–15% polyacrylamide gels and visualized by Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining or transferred to nitrocellulose membranes. Membranes were used for immunodetection with α‐dimethyl H3K9, and α‐monomethyl‐H4K20 (Upstate). Detection of primary antibodies was performed with peroxidase‐conjugated secondary antibodies using the ECL kit (Amersham). Supplementary data are available at The EMBO Journal Online.
