!~ABS~! Copper delivery to the thylakoid lumen protein plastocyanin and the stromal enzyme Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase in chloroplasts is required for photosynthesis and oxidative stress protection. The copper delivery system in chloroplasts was characterized by analyzing the function of copper transporter genes in Arabidopsis thaliana. Two mutant alleles were identified of a previously uncharacterized gene, PAA2 (for P-type ATPase of Arabidopsis), which is required for efficient photosynthetic electron transport. PAA2 encodes a copper-transporting P-type ATPase with sequence similarity to PAA1, which functions in copper transport in chloroplasts. Both proteins localized to the chloroplast, as indicated by fusions to green fluorescent protein. The PAA1 fusions were found in the chloroplast periphery, whereas PAA2 fusions were localized in thylakoid membranes. The phenotypes of paa1 and paa2 mutants indicated that the two transporters have distinct functions: whereas both transporters are required for copper delivery to plastocyanin, copper delivery to the stroma is inhibited only in paa1 but not in paa2. The effects of paa1 and paa2 on superoxide dismutase isoform expression levels suggest that stromal copper levels regulate expression of the nuclear genes IRON SUPEROXIDE DISMUTASE1 and COPPER/ZINC SUPEROXIDE DISMUTASE2. A paa1 paa2 double mutant was seedling-lethal, underscoring the importance of copper to photosynthesis. We propose that PAA1 and PAA2 function sequentially in copper transport over the envelope and thylakoid membrane, respectively.
!~RES~! Plants with even subtle defects in photosynthetic electron transport may display a high chlorophyll fluorescence phenotype, which can be detected using an imaging system (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). To obtain novel mutants with a defect in photosynthesis, ∼2 × 104 seedlings derived by mutagenesis with ethyl methanesulfonate were screened for a high fluorescence phenotype at a light intensity of 300 μmol·m−2·s−1. Among the Arabidopsis mutants isolated were two novel mutants, later designated paa2-1 and paa2-2 (see below). Except for the high chlorophyll fluorescence, paa2 mutants did not exhibit any visible phenotype on regular soil (Figure 1). Genetic analysis revealed that the phenotype of both mutants was attributable to a recessive mutation in a single nuclear gene. F1 plants resulting from a cross between the two mutants displayed the high chlorophyll fluorescence, indicating that the two mutants were allelic. [[FIGURE]] To identify the gene responsible for the high chlorophyll fluorescence phenotype, paa2-2 (Columbia [Col] background) was crossed to a polymorphic wild-type strain (Landsberg erecta), and the mutation was mapped between molecular markers T10F18 and MWD9 on chromosome 5 (Figure 2). Fine mapping using 337 F2 plants identified a 140-kb region covered by two BAC clones, T10F18 and T6G21. Because we expected the chlorophyll fluorescence phenotype to be associated with a chloroplast function, the genomic sequences of candidate genes encoding putative chloroplast-targeted proteins within the 140-kb region were determined and compared between mutants and wild-type plants. Sequence alterations were found in a single gene with the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative number At5g21930 in both alleles. To verify that At5g21930 is responsible for the mutant phenotype, the genomic sequence containing a single gene, the wild-type At5g21930, was introduced into paa2-2. The transformation complemented the chlorophyll fluorescence phenotype (Figure 1, paa2-2 + PAA2). We conclude that the high fluorescence phenotype was attributable to lesions in At5g21930. [[FIGURE]] At5g21930 encodes a putative metal-transporting P-type ATPase (CITATION) and is most similar to PAA1, which encodes a Cu-transporting P-type ATPase in chloroplasts (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we designated At5g21930 as PAA2 and the two mutant alleles as paa2-1 and paa2-2. A nonsense mutation was found in the second exon in paa2-1, suggesting that paa2-1 is effectively a null allele. The mutation in paa2-2 is a nucleotide substitution at the predicted junction between the second intron and the third exon from the consensus AG (CITATION) into AA. Sequencing of RT-PCR products revealed that a downstream AG in the third exon was used for splicing in the transcripts detected in paa2-2. The resulting frame shift should cause the premature termination of translation. Thus, based on sequence analysis, it is predicted that both paa2-1 and paa2-2 are null alleles. However, we cannot exclude the possibility that paa2-2 may be leaky, because an alternative splicing mechanism in paa2 may produce a minor, so far undetected, form of mRNA that could be translated into an at least partially functional protein. A cDNA for the PAA2 coding sequence was obtained by RT-PCR, and sequence analysis clarified that the exons of At5g21930/PAA2 were incorrectly assigned in the Munich Information Center for Protein Sequences (http://mips.gsf.de/proj/thal/db/) and The Arabidopsis Information Resource (http://www.Arabidopsis.org/) databases. The first two predicted exons were not interrupted by an intron in the cDNA sequence. Thus, PAA2 consists of 16 exons and 15 introns (Figure 2). The amino acid sequence of PAA2 with a correctly assigned exon 1 shows 43% amino acid identity with the PAA1 sequence (Figure 3A). [[FIGURE]] Like PAA1, PAA2 is predicted to encode a precursor protein with a cleavable N-terminal chloroplast transit sequence (Figure 3A). Analysis of the predicted sequence of PAA2 suggests that it encodes an integral membrane protein with eight possible transmembrane regions (Figure 3) and that has all of the characteristic conserved domains of the Cu-transporting P-type ATPases found in various organisms (CITATION; CITATION). The conserved domains include a MxCxxC consensus metal binding motif in the N-terminal region, a CPC ion transduction domain in the sixth predicted transmembrane domain, a phosphorylation domain and an ATP binding domain in a large soluble domain loop between transmembrane domains 6 and 7, and a phosphatase domain in a smaller loop (Figure 3). Relative to PAA1, PAA2 lacks a Gly-rich region that follows the transit sequence cleavage site, and the hydrophobicity of the first two transmembrane regions of PAA2 is reduced. The high chlorophyll fluorescence of paa2 suggests that photosynthetic electron transport was affected, as was the case for paa1 (CITATION). Quantitative analysis of chlorophyll fluorescence enables us to monitor the status of photosynthetic electron transport in vivo (CITATION). To determine quantitatively whether there are defects in photosynthetic electron transport, we measured the relative rate of photosystem II (PSII) electron transport as a function of light intensity. Figure 4 shows that the electron transport was affected in the paa2 alleles even at relatively low light intensities (50 to 120 μmol·m−2·s−1) and that it was saturated at ∼50% of the maximum electron transport in the wild type. Introduction of the wild-type PAA2 sequence into paa2-1 complemented the electron transport phenotype (Figure 4, paa2-1 + PAA2). For comparison, we measured the electron transport in a paa1 mutant in the same Col background. In paa1-3, electron transport was saturated at lower light intensity and reached a much lower level (∼30% of the wild-type level) than in paa2 mutants. We conclude that electron transport is impaired in paa2, although the effect is rather mild compared with that in paa1. This observation is consistent with the difference in growth rates on soil between paa1 and paa2 as estimated from seedling size (Figure 1). [[FIGURE]] PAA2 has sequence similarity to genes encoding Cu-transporting P-type ATPases, and mutations in PAA2 affect photosynthetic electron transport (Figure 4). To investigate whether the observed phenomena result from defects in Cu delivery, we tested the effects of Cu feeding on the phenotype of paa2. Two alleles of paa2 and, for comparison, one allele of paa1 and the wild type were cultured on solid agar medium with varying concentrations of CuSO4 (Figure 5). Photosynthetic electron transport activity was estimated from the chlorophyll fluorescence parameter ΦPSII (the efficiency of PSII photochemistry). Chlorophyll content was also determined because it is a good indicator of sensitivity to Cu (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Consistent with the reduction of electron transport in the seedlings cultured on soil (Figure 4), ΦPSII was affected in both alleles of paa2 on standard MS medium containing 0.1 μM CuSO4. The phenotype of paa2-1 was more severe than that of paa2-2, particularly on medium with very low Cu. As mentioned above, leakiness is a possibility in paa2-2, and this may explain the difference between the mutant alleles of paa2. Again, there was a stronger reduction in ΦPSII in the paa1 mutant. Addition of CuSO4 (1 to 10 μM) restored ΦPSII and chlorophyll content in paa1-4, as reported previously (CITATION). The paa2 phenotypes were also suppressed by growth on 1 or 10 μM CuSO4. By contrast, limitation of Cu availability (0.01 μM CuSO4) further enhanced the phenotypes in both paa1 and paa2. The effect of Cu on chlorophyll content was not as strong as on ΦPSII, but the same trends were apparent. Thus, the paa2 phenotype depends on Cu availability, but compared with paa1 the effect of Cu is reduced. Tolerance to excess Cu is a reported function of some Cu-transporting P-type ATPases (CITATION; CITATION). The Cu concentration of 50 μM is in the toxic range for Arabidopsis, at which visible growth defects such as reduced shoot size and root length are observed (data not shown) (CITATION). This high Cu concentration affected both ΦPSII and chlorophyll content in the wild type. ΦPSII was comparable between the mutants and the wild type, whereas the chlorophyll content of paa2 alleles was only slightly lower than those of the wild type and paa1-4, indicating that the sensitivity of Arabidopsis to this toxic level of Cu is not drastically affected in paa2, similar to paa1 (CITATION). In vitro import experiments with pea chloroplasts have shown that the N terminus of the PAA1 precursor contains chloroplast-targeting information (CITATION). The photosynthetic electron transport defect of paa2 mutants suggested that the PAA2 protein is required for Cu delivery to plastocyanin in the thylakoid lumen, but to get to this location, Cu must cross several membranes. The TargetP program (CITATION) predicted a chloroplast localization in the case of PAA2 and a cleavable transit sequence of 65 amino acids. To examine the subcellular localization of the transporters, we constructed fusions with green fluorescent protein (GFP). The coding regions for the predicted chloroplast transit sequences of PAA1 and PAA2 were fused to GFP. Both transit sequence–GFP fusion constructs were expressed from a constitutive promoter in green Arabidopsis protoplast-derived cells. GFP alone expressed from the same promoter was used as a control. Because chloroplast transit sequences effectively mediate the translocation of a passenger protein across the envelope (CITATION), the expected location for a GFP fusion to a transit sequence is the stroma. The localization in cells was analyzed using confocal laser microscopy. Fluorescence corresponding to GFP expressed without a transit sequence was excluded from the chloroplasts as expected, and comparison with bright-field images indicated that GFP was localized in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus (Figure 6A). By contrast, green fluorescence from the PAA1 transit sequence–GFP fusion and the PAA2 transit sequence–GFP fusion localized to the chloroplast, as indicated by the overlay of green fluorescence and red autofluorescence (Figures 6B and 6C). These results indicate that the N-terminal sequences of PAA2 and PAA1 function as chloroplast-targeting sequences. Therefore, the transporter proteins should function in the chloroplast either in the inner envelope membrane or in the thylakoids. For PAA1 protein, an envelope location had already been inferred from phenotypic analysis, but its location had not been demonstrated directly (CITATION) in intact cells. To investigate directly in which membrane system PAA1 and PAA2 may function, we attempted to express full-length fusions with GFP. In contrast with the result obtained with the transit sequence fusion, the green fluorescence in cells expressing the full-length PAA1-GFP fusion was localized to the periphery of chloroplasts, consistent with localization in the envelope (Figure 6D). Because expression of the full-length fusion of PAA2 to GFP never resulted in sufficient GFP signal, we could not localize the full-length PAA2. However, because topogenic information for membrane insertion may be contained in the first few transmembrane domains, we constructed additional fusions to GFP. To include the N-terminal parts of the precursor with the first and second predicted transmembrane regions, residues 1 to 301 of PAA1 were fused to GFP. For PAA2, residues 1 to 306, including the first four predicted transmembrane domains, were fused to GFP. The localization results for these fusions are shown in Figures 6E and 6F. Green fluorescence in cells expressing the PAA1/1-301-GFP fusion was localized to the periphery of chloroplasts, consistent with the localization of the full precursor fusion (Figure 6E). This result indicates that envelope-targeting information for PAA1 is contained in the first two transmembrane domains. Interestingly, the location of the PAA2/1-306-GFP fusion seemed to overlap with the thylakoids, and no labeling of the chloroplast periphery was seen. These results suggest that PAA2 is not targeted to the envelope but instead may be targeted to the thylakoids. [[FIGURE]] To investigate localization by a different approach, we performed in vitro import experiments using isolated chloroplasts and in vitro translation of synthetic mRNA to obtain radiolabeled precursor proteins (Figures 7A and 7B). With this method, we did not succeed in the in vitro translation of full-length PAA2 (data not shown), as was the case for full-length PAA1 (CITATION). However, after we introduced a stop codon that follows the codon for residue 333, we did observe translation resulting in a truncated precursor of the predicted size of 32 kD (Figure 7A, left gel, asterisk). This precursor includes the first four transmembrane domains. We analyzed the location of this protein by fractionation of the chloroplasts after in vitro import. We used the plastocyanin precursor as a control. The fractionation shows that the truncated PAA2 precursor is imported, resulting in a mature-sized protein after transit sequence fusion. The imported truncated PAA2 protein is protected from thermolysin protease treatment in the intact chloroplasts and fractionates with the membrane fraction, in which it is susceptible to protease treatment (Figure 7A, left gel), as would be expected for a thylakoid membrane protein. The control plastocyanin localizes to the thylakoid membrane fraction, in which it is fully protected from protease treatment (Figure 7A, right gel). To further investigate the suborganellar localization of truncated PAA2, the intact chloroplasts after thermolysin protease treatment (Figure 7A, left gel, fraction 2) were lysed and fractionated on a sucrose step gradient. The radiolabeled, imported protein was detected in the thylakoid fraction (Figure 7B, top gel), whereas no radioactive protein bands were detected in either stroma or envelope fractions. The separation and recovery of fractions was verified by immunoblotting using antibody markers specific for the stroma, thylakoids, and inner envelope membranes (Figure 7B, bottom three gels, respectively). We conclude from the data in Figures 6 and 7 and data obtained previously for PAA1 (CITATION) that both the PAA1 and PAA2 proteins are active in chloroplasts. The data indicate that PAA1 functions in the envelope, whereas PAA2 is present in the thylakoid membrane. However, even though the data clearly indicate that the majority of the PAA1 and PAA2 proteins function in different membranes within the chloroplast, it cannot be excluded that a minor fraction of PAA2 could also be active in the envelope or a minor fraction of PAA1 could also be active in the thylakoids. [[FIGURE]] A defect in PAA1, if the protein is active in the envelope, should affect Cu delivery to both the stroma and the thylakoids (CITATION). Similarly, a defect in PAA2, if the protein is active in thylakoids, should result in altered metal ion levels in the chloroplast stroma and thylakoid lumen, which in turn may explain the photosynthesis phenotype of paa2 alleles. To analyze directly whether PAA2 is involved in Cu delivery to chloroplast compartments, we performed an elemental analysis of total leaf tissue and chloroplast fractions from wild-type and paa2-1 plants and, for comparison, paa1-3 plants. We did not observe a significant difference in the content of Cu, Fe, or Zn between leaves in wild-type and paa2-1 plants (Table 1), indicating that PAA2 function is not required for metal ion delivery from the soil to the leaf tissue. However, a small but significant reduction was seen for the Cu content of paa1-3 relative to wild-type plants. No significant differences were found for other measured elements in the leaf tissue (Mn, Mg, Ca, S, and P) among paa2, paa1, and the wild type (data not shown). As was noted previously (CITATION), paa1 chloroplasts had reduced Cu content compared with wild-type chloroplasts. Even though the Cu content of paa2-1 chloroplasts was slightly lower than that of wild-type chloroplasts, this difference was not statistically significant. Interestingly, even though total Cu levels were comparable between wild-type and mutant leaf tissue, there was a large reduction of Cu content of the thylakoids for both mutants compared with the wild type. Whereas only a modest reduction was seen for Cu in the intact chloroplast of paa2-1, this line showed the most dramatic reduction of thylakoid Cu content (Table 1). These results indicate that PAA2 has a role in Cu delivery to thylakoids. Fe levels were slightly but significantly increased in the intact chloroplast and the thylakoids of paa2-1 (Table 1). Relative to the wild type, Zn levels were significantly increased in chloroplasts of both paa1-3 and paa2-1, with the latter line showing the largest increase. Because there was no significant increase in the Zn levels of thylakoid fractions, the increases in chloroplast Zn levels in paa1 and paa2 may have been attributable to higher Zn concentrations in the stroma. These results support the role of PAA2 as a chloroplast-localized and most likely thylakoid-localized transporter specific for Cu. Metal Ion Profiles in Leaf and Chloroplast Fractions Two Cu proteins play important roles in photosynthesis in Arabidopsis. Plastocyanin is active in the thylakoid lumen, and CSD2 is active in the stroma. To investigate the role of PAA1 and PAA2 proteins in the biogenesis of these Cu proteins, we compared the abundance of plastocyanin (Figure 8) and SOD isoforms (Figure 9) in wild-type and mutant plants. A native gel electrophoresis assay (CITATION) was used to distinguish holoplastocyanin (with Cu bound) and apoplastocyanin (without Cu bound) isolated from the thylakoid lumen of wild-type and paa2 plants grown on soil. Purified spinach plastocyanin, which is very similar in sequence to Arabidopsis plastocyanin, was used to identify bands corresponding to untreated holoplastocyanin and apoplastocyanin obtained after ascorbate and KCN treatment (Figure 8A, bottom two gels). In wild-type plants, plastocyanin was present in both the holo and apo forms (Figure 8A). However, a comparison of the staining intensities of both holoplastocyanin and apoplastocyanin on the control gel stained for total protein and the control immunoblot (Figure 8A) indicates that the antibody detects the apo form of plastocyanin with 5- to 10-fold better efficiency in this native gel assay. Thus, in wild-type thylakoids, the majority of plastocyanin is the holo form. In contrast with the situation in wild-type plants, and similar to what was found previously for the paa1 mutants (CITATION), plastocyanin was accumulated in the apo form in paa2-1 and paa2-2 mutants, and holo protein was hardly detectable (Figure 8A, top gel). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Apoplastocyanin in the thylakoid lumen may be unstable, as was found in Chlamydomonas (CITATION). Indeed, the total amount of detectable plastocyanin polypeptide after separation on a denaturing gel in paa1 and paa2 mutants was much less than that in the wild type. A quantification of the band intensities in Figure 8B and replicate experiments indicates greater than 90% reduction of plastocyanin in both tested alleles of paa1 and greater than 80% reduction in both alleles of paa2 for plants grown on soil. The deficiency of plastocyanin in paa2 mutants indicates that Cu delivery to the thylakoid lumen is severely impaired, which explains the observed defect in electron transport. The electron transport defect was rescued by Cu feeding in both paa1 and paa2 mutants, but a much larger effect of Cu feeding was observed for paa1. To directly investigate the effects of Cu feeding on plastocyanin levels, plants were grown on MS-agar medium supplemented with different CuSO4 concentrations or with the Cu chelator cuprizone (Figure 8C). Measurements of metal levels verified that Cu feeding increased total shoot Cu levels, whereas cuprizone decreased shoot Cu levels (data not shown). Because the results shown in Figures 8A and 8B indicate that total plastocyanin levels are a good indicator of holoplastocyanin levels, we analyzed plastocyanin in total leaf tissue by denaturing electrophoresis. As expected, Cu feeding or depletion affected plastocyanin levels in wild-type plants (Figure 8C), indicating that this protein is an important sink for Cu in green tissues, as had been noted (CITATION). However, the addition of toxic levels of Cu (50 μm) negatively affected plastocyanin accumulation in the wild type, an effect that is paralleled by a decrease in chlorophyll (Figure 5) and stunted plant growth (data not shown). Interestingly, plastocyanin content was partially rescued in the paa1 mutant by increasing CuSO4 concentrations (Figure 8C). This result suggests the presence of a Cu delivery pathway to plastocyanin, which functions independently of PAA1 at high shoot Cu levels. In contrast with what was observed for the wild type, supplementation with a toxic amount of Cu (50 μm) further increased the plastocyanin content in paa1. In the paa2 mutants, we observed only a marginal increase in plastocyanin content with increasing CuSO4 concentration (Figure 8C), and toxic amounts of Cu further reduced plastocyanin levels. RNA gel blot experiments indicated that plastocyanin transcription was not significantly affected by the Cu treatments and was comparable in wild-type and paa1 and paa2 plants (data not shown). The difference in plastocyanin accumulation in response to Cu between paa1 and paa2 supports the notion that PAA1 and PAA2 proteins function in different chloroplast membranes. The quantitative analysis of the Cu content in paa2-1 suggest that PAA2 protein functions as a Cu transporter in the thylakoids. If this is the case, paa2 mutations should not have a negative effect on stromal Cu enzymes such as CSD2. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed the activity of SOD isozymes in leaf tissue from plants grown at different Cu concentrations (Figure 9A). The SOD isoforms can be distinguished by their mobility on native gels (CITATION; CITATION) and sensitivity to inhibitors (CITATION) (see Methods). The cytosolic CSD1 activity increased with Cu feeding in all plant lines (Figure 9A), but relative to wild-type plants it was more pronounced in paa1 and paa2. Immunoblots (Figure 9B) and RNA gel blots (Figure 9C) indicate that increased CSD1 activity can be ascribed to an increase in gene expression. The activity of stromal CSD2 was not detectable on the standard MS growth medium (0.1 μM CuSO4) in the wild type but was detected in plants after Cu feeding (Figure 9A). Interestingly, increased CSD2 activity was observed for paa2 compared with wild-type plants at all Cu concentrations, but the difference was especially clear at low Cu concentrations. In paa1, no CSD2 activity was observed for plants grown on MS medium containing 0.1 μM CuSO4 (Figure 9A), but as with plastocyanin, very high Cu levels partially restored CSD2 activity. As with CSD1, the increase in CSD2 activity in response to Cu can be ascribed to an increase in gene expression, as increased CSD2 protein and mRNA levels were observed with increased Cu (Figures 9B and 9C). Quantification of the band intensities in Figure 9C indicates that in wild-type CSD2, mRNA levels are upregulated sevenfold at 5 μM Cu compared with 0.1 μM Cu. Similarly, CSD2 expression is upregulated in paa2 relative to the wild type at both the protein and mRNA levels (sixfold) when grown on the standard MS growth medium (0.1 μM CuSO4). By contrast, the reduced CSD2 activity in paa1 was not attributable to downregulation of gene expression; relative to the wild type, the paa1 mutant had higher CSD2 polypeptide and mRNA levels at low Cu levels (0.1 μM CuSO4) (Figures 9B and 9C). We conclude that in the paa1 mutant, the SOD apoprotein, which is reported to be stable (CITATION), accumulated in the stroma. Thus, the reduced activity of CSD2 in paa1 is the result of a defect in Cu delivery. To confirm the activity of CSD2, we analyzed SOD activities in stromal fractions prepared from isolated chloroplasts (Figure 9D). Intactness of the chloroplasts was indicated by the quantitative recovery of the stromal enzyme CpNifS, whereas purity was verified by the absence of the cytosolic marker P28 (Figure 9E). Analysis of the SOD activity in stromal fractions (Figure 9D) confirmed the increased presence of CSD2 activity in paa2 and the decreased activity in paa1. The impaired delivery of Cu to the thylakoid lumen protein plastocyanin, together with an increase in the activity of the stromal Cu/ZnSOD in paa2 mutants, strongly suggests that PAA2 encodes a thylakoid Cu transporter. By contrast, the observed defects in Cu delivery to both stromal and lumenal chloroplast proteins (Figures 8 and 9) (CITATION) suggest that PAA1 acts as a Cu transporter in the envelope. The activity of MnSOD was the same in wild-type, paa1, and paa2 plants under all conditions. However, two interesting observations were made when examining stromal FeSOD activity. In wild-type plants, FeSOD activity was observed only on low Cu medium, and it was not detected in plants grown on Cu-supplemented medium (Figures 9A and 9D). Furthermore, compared with the wild type, we observed that stromal FeSOD activity was significantly reduced in paa1 and slightly reduced in paa2 (Figures 9A and 9D). The absence of FeSOD activity at high Cu and its reduction under low Cu conditions in the paa1 and paa2 mutants relative to the wild type can be explained by a reduction of FeSOD polypeptide levels (Figure 9B), which in turn can be ascribed to reduced mRNA levels (Figure 9C). Quantification of the data shown in Figure 9C demonstrated that on standard MS medium, FeSOD mRNA levels were reduced sixfold in paa1 compared with the wild type. In paa2, this reduction was less than twofold. Photosynthesis is similarly affected in both paa1 and paa2 mutants. PAA1 is localized in the plastid envelope. On the other hand, the phenotypic analysis of paa2 suggests a localization in thylakoids for PAA2. Thus, we may expect PAA1 to be expressed in all tissues but PAA2 to be expressed only in green tissue, in which the plastids develop into chloroplasts that contain thylakoids. We investigated the expression of PAA1 and PAA2 mRNA in root and shoot tissues by RT-PCR because the mRNA levels were too low to be detected on RNA gel blots. PAA1 transcripts were detected in both shoot and root tissues, although we observed a much higher expression level in shoot tissue (Figure 10). On the other hand, PAA2 transcripts were detected in the shoot only, and no products were detected in the root (Figure 10). Consistent with the localization data shown in Figure 6, these results suggest a role for PAA1 in both green and nongreen plastids, whereas PAA2 may function exclusively in green photosynthetically active chloroplasts. [[FIGURE]] To analyze the phenotype of double mutants, paa2-1 was crossed with paa1-4. Genotypes of the resulting F2 progeny were analyzed by PCR using primers designed to detect the paa1-4 and paa2-1 mutations. Among the F2 seedlings grown on soil, we found no double mutant homozygous for both paa1-4 and paa2-1 (data not shown). This result strongly suggests that the double mutant was lethal on soil. Because photosynthetic electron transport may have been severely affected in the double mutant, we tested the growth of the progeny of paa1-4/+ paa2-1/paa2-1 on medium supplemented with sucrose to rescue the defects in photosynthesis caused by lesions. We compared growth on the standard medium (Figure 11, top) and MS medium supplemented with 5 μM CuSO4, which was sufficient to at least partially suppress the defects in the single mutants (Figure 11, bottom). On standard MS medium containing 0.1 μM CuSO4, paa1-4 displayed a pale green leaf color and drastic reduction in growth rate (Figure 11, top) (CITATION). Similarly, paa2-1 seedlings also displayed some chlorosis (Figure 11), although the growth rate was unaffected. With Mendelian segregation, we expected one-fourth of the offspring of paa1-4/+ paa2-1/paa2-1 to be homozygous for both recessive mutations. Indeed, seedlings with a growth phenotype that was much more severe than in either single mutant constituted approximately one-quarter of the total population (Figure 11, red arrows), whereas the other seedlings displayed a phenotype characteristic of paa2-1. PCR amplification of the paa1 sequence confirmed that seedlings with this severe phenotype were homozygous for the paa1-4 allele. The cotyledons in the double mutant were severely chlorotic, and true leaves did not emerge. The phenotypes were significantly more severe than those of paa1-4. This severe growth phenotype of the double mutant was evident in the light. In the dark, however, hypocotyl elongation and root growth were uniform among the progeny of paa1-4/+ paa2-1/paa2-1 (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] On MS medium supplemented with 5 μM CuSO4, the phenotype of paa1-4 was drastically weakened (Figure 11, bottom). By contrast, the double mutants still displayed the severe growth phenotype and chlorosis. Although supplementation of the toxic level of Cu (50 μM) restored the leaf color, the growth rate was still severely affected in the double mutant (data not shown). We conclude that the paa1 paa2 double mutant is seedling-lethal even on medium supplemented with sucrose.
!~MM~! The background of Arabidopsis thaliana paa2-1 and paa2-2 is Col gl1 (Col-3). Both alleles were derived by mutagenesis with ethyl methanesulfonate. The paa1 alleles used in this study were paa1-3, which is in the Col-0 background, and paa1-4, which is in the Col-3 background, and have comparable phenotypes (CITATION). Plants were grown in Metromix potting soil under controlled conditions (light intensity of 40 μmol·m−2·s−1, 16-h/8-h light/dark cycle at 23°C). For chloroplast isolation and extraction of plastocyanin, larger numbers of plants were grown in a greenhouse with natural sunlight supplemented by lighting from sodium lamps to give 15 h of light during the photoperiod. For growth on agar medium, seeds were surface-sterilized and sown on agar-solidified MS medium including 3% sucrose (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO). The medium was supplemented with CuSO4 or the chelator cuprizone (Sigma number C9012) as indicated. The paa2-2 mutation was mapped with cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence markers (CITATION). Genomic DNA was isolated from F2 plants derived from the cross between paa2-2 and the polymorphic wild-type Landsberg erecta. Primer sequences and restriction enzymes used for mapping were 5′-TCATGCATCAAAAACCGACAG-3′ and 5′-TAATCCTGGACACAAGAATCC-3′ (HindIII [T10F18]) and 5′-GTCTTGTTCATGTGAAACTGC-3′ and 5′-TGATTGATTCTTTAGCCATCG-3′ (MseI [MWD9]). Genomic PAA2 sequences containing the wild type and both paa2 alleles were amplified by PCR using Ex-Taq DNA polymerase (Takara, Kyoto, Japan). Resulting PCR products were sequenced directly using a dye terminator cycle sequencing kit and an ABI prism 3100 sequencer (Perkin-Elmer, Norwalk, CT). For complementation of the paa2-2 mutation, the 6.8-kb fragment containing the wild-type PAA2 sequence flanked by 5′-TCTAGATGTGTTGTAGAAGA-3′ and 5′-AAGCTTCCTCCGTTGTATCC-3′ (complementary) was cloned in pBI101. The resulting plasmid was introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens pMP40 strain and then transformed (CITATION) into paa2-2. Total RNA from root and shoot was isolated using TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). First-strand cDNA was synthesized from 1 μg of DNase1-treated total RNA using Moloney murine leukemia virus RT (Promega, Madison, WI) and oligo(dT) primers according to instructions. The Expand polymerase enzyme kit (Roche Diagnostics, Indianapolis, IN) was used to amplify the PAA2 coding sequence using the flanking primers SmaI–N-ter (5′-TCCCCCGGGATGGCGAGCAATCTTCTCCGATTT-3′) and XhoI–C-ter (5′-CGGGCCTCGAGAATAGATGTGGAGCCGATCACAAG-3′) by PCR. The underlined sequences are the restriction sites. The amplified product was digested with SmaI and XhoI, cloned into pBluescript KS+ (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA), and sequenced by the dideoxy dye termination method. The cDNA sequence was deposited in the GenBank database with accession number AY297817. The GFP reporter plasmid 35Ω-SGFP(S65T) was generously provided by Norbert Rolland (Universite Joseph Fourier, Grenoble, France). Construction of the plasmids for expression of fusions to GFP was as follows. The transit sequence of PAA1 (amino acids 1 to 115) and the transit sequence of PAA2 (amino acids 1 to 72) were amplified by PCR using flanking primers SalI–N-ter (5′-GAATGGTCGACATCGAGAGATTGAGATTACGGAGC-3′) and NcoI–C-ter (5′-CATGCCATGGCACCATTATACCCCCCAAATCCAGAA-3′) for PAA1 and SalI–N-ter (5′-GAATGGTCGACTACATCGCGTGACTATCGTCGTCTGT-3′) and NcoI–C-ter (5′-CATGCCATGGTAATGGATTTCACAGATTCGATTGAAG-3′) for PAA2. The N-terminal primers hybridize to the 5′ untranslated region. Genomic DNA was used as the template for PCR. PCR products were inserted into the SalI–NcoI-digested GFP reporter plasmid to create PAA1/1-115-GFP and PAA2/1-72-GFP. Similarly, the PAA1/1-301-GFP fusion was constructed after PCR using primers PAA1.N-ter.Sal 1 (5′-GATCGTCGACATGGAGTCTACACTCTCAGCT-3′) in combination with PAA1.Rev. Nco1 3 (5′-CATGCCATGGGTACAGGACCAAGCAACGTAA-3′). The fusion of PAA2/1-306-GFP was constructed after PCR using primers PAA2.N-ter.Sal 6 (5′-ACGCGTCGACATGGCGAGCAATCTTCTCCGATT-3′) and PAA2TMD4R (5′-ACGCGTCGACAGATGCTTGAAGCTTTGCTCTTT-3′). The orientation was confirmed by restriction digestion and sequencing. For the latter two fusions, cDNA clones were used as templates for PCR. To make a fusion with GFP of the full-length PAA1, the entire coding sequence was amplified by PCR using flanking primers PAA1.N-ter.Sal 1 and PAA1-rev-SalI (5′-ACGCGTCGACAGAGCTTTGCTTCCATCTTGTGTT-3′). The PCR products was inserted into the SalI-digested GFP plasmid to create PAA1/FL-GFP. The correct orientations of the insertion and fusion of full DNA sequences were verified by sequencing using the dideoxy method. The plasmids used for protoplast transformation were prepared using the Plasmid Midi Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). Construction of the plasmid for in vitro transcription of a truncated PAA2 was performed as follows. The PAA2 precursor sequence including the first four transmembrane domains was amplified by PCR using primers SmaI–N-ter (described above) and PAAHR5 (5′-CGGGCCTCGAGTTACAGAATCCACTGGGGTGT-3′). The amplified product was digested with SmaI and XhoI and cloned into pBluescript KS+ (Stratagene). Plasmid was linearized by KpnI and in vitro transcribed using T7 polymerase. The vector used for in vitro transcription of the plastocyanin sequence from Silene pratensis was as described (CITATION). GFP fusions were expressed in Arabidopsis protoplast derived cells from the 35S promoter in the GFP reporter plasmid 35Ω-SGFP(S65T). For protoplast preparation, Arabidopsis plants (ecotype Col) were grown on MS medium for 3 weeks. Two grams fresh weight of leaf tissue was suspended in 30 mL of a buffer containing 1% (w/v) cellulase Onozuka R-10, 0.25% Macerozyme R-10 (Karlan Research Products, Santa Rosa, CA), 8 mM CaCl2, 0.5 M mannitol, and 5 mM Mes, pH 5.5, vacuum infiltrated for 1 min, and incubated for 3 h at room temperature with gentle shaking. The clear digest was filtered through a 37- to 70-μm nylon mesh (Carolina Biological Supply, Burlington, NC), and the protoplasts were harvested by centrifugation for 5 min at 1000 rpm and washed twice in 10 mL of W5 wash solution (154 mM NaCl, 125 mM CaCl2, 5 mM KCl, 5 mM glucose, and 0.5 M mannitol, adjusted to pH 5.8 with KOH). The pellet was suspended in ∼2 mL of mannitol/Mg solution (15 mM MgCl2, 0.4 M mannitol, and 0.1% Mes, pH 5.6). Protoplasts were counted using a hemocytometer, and their concentration was adjusted to 3 × 106 cells/mL with mannitol/Mg solution. Fifty micrograms of plasmid DNA, 100 μg of salmon sperm DNA, and 300 μL of polyethylene glycol solution [40% polyethylene glycol 6000, 0.4 M mannitol, and 0.1 M Ca(NO3)2, adjusted to pH 8.0 with KOH] were added to 300 μL of the protoplast solution, very gently mixed, and left for 30 min at room temperature. The solution was very slowly diluted with 10 mL of W5 solution and then pelleted by centrifugation for 5 min at 1000 rpm. Protoplasts were further resuspended in 5 mL of protoplast culture medium composed of MS medium supplemented with 0.4 M glucose, 0.4 M mannitol, 1 mg/L 2,4-D, and 0.15 mg/L kinetin, pH adjusted to 5.8 with KOH, and left at 23°C for 16 h under continuous light. Confocal images were obtained using an Olympus Fluoview 300 inverted confocal laser scanning microscope (1X70) equipped with an argon ion laser system and a 1.4-numerical aperture 60× objective lens (Olympus America, Melville, NY). In all experiments, the microscope stage was maintained at room temperature. The fluorescence signals were detected at 530 nm for GFP and 660 nm for chlorophyll. Sections of 1-μm thickness were scanned, and images were captured with the Fluoview software as Tiff files. Eight sections were superimposed, and images were imported into Adobe Photoshop (Mountain View, CA) and cropped. Radiolabeled precursors were synthesized in a wheat germ lysate system in the presence of 35S-Met (25 μCi/50 μL reaction) (Amersham/Pharmacia, Piscataway, NJ) according to suggested protocols (Promega). After translation, unlabeled Met was added to 5 mM and postribosomal supernatants were prepared by centrifugation at 100,000g at 4°C for 20 min. The radiolabeled precursors were incubated with chloroplasts that were isolated from 10-d-old pea seedlings (Pisum sativum cv Little Marvel) as described (CITATION). The postimport thermolysin treatment and reisolation of intact chloroplasts as well as fractionation into stromal and crude membrane fractions were performed as described (CITATION). Sucrose step gradient fractionations were performed as described (CITATION). After gradient separation, the stroma and envelope protein fractions were concentrated by acetone precipitation, whereas the thylakoid membranes were concentrated by centrifugation at 20,000g after dilution with 3 volumes of buffer without sucrose. Proteins from import experiments equivalent to 10 μg of chlorophyll were separated by 15% SDS-PAGE, and the gels were fixed in 7% (v/v) acetic acid and 25% (v/v) methanol, stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R 250, destained to verify fractionation, and dried. The radiolabeled proteins were visualized using a STORM PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics, Sunnyvale, CA). To verify the purity and recovery of sucrose density gradient fractions, proteins were blotted onto nitrocellulose membranes and probed with CpNifS antibody as a stromal marker (CITATION), with cytochrome f antibody as a thylakoid marker (CITATION), or with Tic-110 antibody as an envelope marker (CITATION). Chlorophyll fluorescence was measured using a MINI-PAM portable chlorophyll fluorometer (Walz, Effeltrich, Germany) as described (CITATION). Chlorophyll content was determined by absorbance changes in intact leaves as measured with SPAD-502 equipment (Konica Minolta, Tokyo, Japan) (CITATION). Metal ion content in total leaves, intact chloroplasts, and thylakoid fractions was determined as described (CITATION). Statistical analysis was performed using the JMP IN software package (SAS Institute, Cary, NC). Ten micrograms of total RNA was subjected to electrophoresis on a 1% agarose gel containing 4% formaldehyde, transferred to a nylon membrane, and probed with 32P-labeled probes. The probes were obtained by PCR amplification using the following oligonucleotides: for CSD1, 5′-GAGTTGCAGTTTTGAACAGC-3′ (sense) and 5′-TTCTTTGGAAACGTAGCAGC-3′ (antisense); for CSD2, 5′-AAACGTCAAACATAGCAGCAG-3′ (sense) and 5′-AGTAAACACATCACTGTCAT-3′ (antisense); and for FeSOD, 5′-CAAACTCTGGAGTTTCACTG-3′ (sense) and 5′-TCAAGTCTGGCACTTACGC-3′ (antisense). Radioactive probes were synthesized with an oligolabeling kit from Amersham using random primers. Hybridization was performed at 42°C in a solution containing 50% formamide, 5× SSPE (1× SSPE is 0.115 M NaCl, 10 mM sodium phosphate, and 1 mM EDTA, pH 7.4), 5 × Denhardt's solution (1× Denhardt's solution is 0.02% Ficoll, 0.02% polyvinylpyrrolidone, and 0.02% BSA), 0.1% (w/v) SDS, and salmon sperm DNA (100 μg/mL). After hybridization, membranes were washed with 0.1% SSC (1× SSC is 0.15 M NaCl and 0.015 M sodium citrate) and 0.1% SDS at 65°C, and radiolabeled bands were visualized and quantified in a STORM PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics). Because PAA1 and PAA2 transcripts were not detectable on RNA gel blots, we used RT-PCR to compare the mRNA abundance of PAA1 and PAA2.Sense (5′-CCGTCTTTCAGGAGTATCTCAAGT-3′) and antisense (5′-AGAGCTTTGCTTCCATCTTGTGTT-3′) primers were used to amplify 2.5 kb of PAA1. Sense (5′-TGAATCTTCAATCGAATCTGTGAAAT-3′) and antisense (5′-CAAGCTATTTTTACTTGTTTCAGACT-3′) primers were used to amplify 2.4 kb of PAA2. The PCRs were performed in a final volume of 50 μL using serial dilutions of the cDNA as templates. The reaction mixtures were heated at 94°C for 4 min and cooled to 55°C, and 2 units of Ex-Taq polymerase (Takara) was added to initiate the amplification reaction. Thirty-five cycles of amplification were performed in an Eppendorf Mastercycler gradient, each consisting of 1 min of denaturation at 94°C, 1 min of annealing at 55°C, and 2 min of extension at 72°C. The amplified products were resolved by electrophoresis on a 1% agarose gel, blotted onto a nylon membrane, and probed with 32P-labeled gene-specific probes for PAA1 and PAA2. Sense (5′-TAAGCTCTCAAGATCAAAGGCT-3′) and antisense (5′-AACATTGCAAAGAGTTTCAAGGT-3′) primers were used to amplify 200 bp of the actin gene under the same conditions as an internal control. The relative amounts of apoplastocyanin and holoplastocyanin in thylakoids of the wild type and PAA2 mutants were analyzed as described (CITATION; CITATION). For these experiments, thylakoids were isolated from intact chloroplasts from 4-week-old plants grown on soil. Approximately 100 plants were used for each isolation, and two replicates were performed. Plastocyanin was purified from fresh spinach obtained from a local health food store essentially as described (CITATION). The purified protein migrated as a single band by SDS-PAGE and was blue with the characteristic absorption spectrum after oxidation with ferricyanide (CITATION). Apoplastocyanin was produced by treatment with ascorbate and KCN as described by CITATION. Total shoot protein samples from plants grown on MS-agar plates (∼50 seedlings per experiment) for native gel assays were obtained as described (CITATION), and native gel assays for SOD activity were performed as described (CITATION). Three independent replicate assays were performed. The SOD isozymes were identified by differential inhibition using 2 mM KCN to inhibit Cu/ZnSOD (CITATION) or 3 mM H2O2 to inhibit Cu/ZnSOD and FeSOD. For SOD activity in the stroma fractions, intact chloroplasts were isolated from rosette leaves of plants (100 to 200) grown on MS-agar plates as described (CITATION), and stromal protein fractions were obtained as described (CITATION). Two replicate assays were performed. Antibodies for immunoblot detection of plastocyanin (CITATION), SOD isoforms (CITATION), and CpNifS (CITATION) have been described. P28 antibodies were a kind gift from S. Bednarek (University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI). Ribulose-1,5-bis-phosphate carboxylase/oxygenase large subunit antibody was purchased from AgriSera (Stockholm, Sweden). Bound antibodies on blots were detected by the ECF system (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). Quantification of the bands was performed using ImageQuant software (Molecular Dynamics). Total protein was determined according to CITATION. Transit sequences and cleavage sites were predicted using the CloroP program at http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP/ (CITATION). Protein alignments were done using ClustalW (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/clustalw/). The characteristic domains of CPx ATPases indicated by CITATION were identified in the conserved regions of PAA1 and PAA2. The location of possible transmembrane helices was determined using the program TMHMM at http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM-2.0/ (CITATION). Hydrophobicity plots were produced according to CITATION at http://us.expasy.org/tools/protscale.html. Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the GenBank data library under accession numbers AY297817 for PAA2 (At5g21930) and BAA23769 for PAA1 (At4g33520).
