!~ABS~! Abscisic acid (ABA) is important in seed maturation, seed dormancy, stomatal closure, and stress response. Many genes that function in ABA signal transduction pathways have been identified. However, most important signaling molecules involved in the perception of the ABA signal or with ABA receptors have not been identified yet. Receptor-like kinase1 (RPK1), a Leu-rich repeat (LRR) receptor kinase in the plasma membrane, is upregulated by ABA in Arabidopsis thaliana. Here, we show the phenotypes of T-DNA insertion mutants and RPK1-antisense plants. Repression of RPK1 expression in Arabidopsis decreased sensitivity to ABA during germination, growth, and stomatal closure; microarray and RNA gel analysis showed that many ABA-inducible genes are downregulated in these plants. Furthermore, overexpression of the RPK1 LRR domain alone or fused with the Brassinosteroid-insensitive1 kinase domain in plants resulted in phenotypes indicating ABA sensitivity. RPK1 is involved in the main ABA signaling pathway and in early ABA perception in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! RPK1 is an LRR-RLK isolated from Arabidopsis. Its expression is upregulated by ABA, dehydration, high salt levels, and low temperature (CITATION). To determine the role of RPK1 in ABA signaling, we analyzed the effects of various plant hormone treatments, including ABA, on the expression of RPK1 (Figure 1A). RPK1 was expressed at low levels, even under control conditions, and its mRNA accumulation was specifically upregulated by ABA but not by other plant hormones, namely, ethephon, salicylic acid (SA), methyl jasmonate (MeJA), gibberellic acid (GA3), cytokinin (6-benzylaminopurine [BA]), and auxin (2,4-D). RPK1 protein was detected in untreated plants by protein gel blot analysis using anti-RPK1 polyclonal antibody (Figure 1B). Specific upregulation of RPK1 by ABA was also shown at the protein level in mature Columbia ecotype plants and T87 suspension-cultured cells (Figure 1B). Figure 1C shows the expression pattern of the RPK1 promoter–β-glucuronidase (GUS) fusion gene in transgenic Arabidopsis. GUS activity was increased by ABA treatment (Figure 1C, 1), especially in the cotyledons and vascular tissues; a low level of activity was found in untreated transgenic plants (Figure 1C, 2). Strong activity was also found in embryos of mature seeds (Figure 1C, 3). These expression patterns indicate that expression of the RPK1 gene is activated specifically by endogenous as well as exogenous ABA. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We tested the cellular localization pattern of the RPK1 protein using an RPK1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion construct, which is constitutively expressed in Arabidopsis roots. RPK1-GFP proteins were found on the cell surface under confocal microscopy (Figure 1D, 1). The GFP image was distorted when root cells were plasmolyzed by mannitol treatment (Figure 1D, 2), suggesting that RPK1 is localized on the plasma membrane. These results indicate that the RPK1 protein functions on the plasma membrane. To analyze the function of RPK1 in ABA signaling in plant cells, we screened T-DNA–tagged Arabidopsis Wassilewskija (Ws) lines from the Arabidopsis Knockout Facility collection at Wisconsin University and obtained two RPK1 knockout mutants, rpk1-1 and rpk1-2, after PCR screening (Figure 2A). T-DNAs were inserted 504 and 989 bp downstream of the translational start site of the RPK1 gene (Figure 2B) in rpk1-1 and rpk1-2, respectively, and were confirmed by the sequences of the PCR products. RPK1 expression was repressed in rpk1-1 and rpk1-2 homozygous lines at both transcription and translation levels (Figure 2A). These plants do not show any morphological alterations under normal growth conditions (data not shown). We examined the ABA sensitivities of the RPK1 knockouts plants. The germination rates of the RPK1 knockouts were higher than those of wild-type plants on both ABA-containing and ABA-free media (Figure 2C). Furthermore, overexpression of RPK1 in rpk1-1 (Figure 2C, 35S:RPK1rpk1-1) was able to complement the ABA insensitivity. Figure 2D shows the germination rates of the wild-type and RPK1 knockout plants on ABA-containing media at various concentrations of ABA. The slightly higher germination rate without ABA might indicate insensitivity to internal ABA. Thus, the RPK1 knockout plants showed an ABA-insensitive phenotype during germination. The negative effect of ABA on root growth was also reduced in the RPK1 knockouts (Figure 2E). We then generated antisense-RPK1 transgenic plants in which RPK1 mRNA accumulation was suppressed under the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus. Antisense-RPK1 plants also showed higher germination rates with or without ABA than did controls (Figure 3C). RPK1 suppression in the antisense-RPK1 Arabidopsis lines was clearer in lines L1 and L2 than in L3 and vector control (VC) plants (Figure 3A). The antisense-RPK1 L1 and L2 plants showed a stronger phenotype than the L3 plants (Figure 3C). These results indicate that RPK1 repression resulted in ABA insensitivity in Arabidopsis. We also generated antisense-RPK1 transgenic T87 suspension cell lines whose RPK1 protein levels were clearly decreased on protein gel blot analysis (Figure 3B). Suspension culture cells contain specific cell regulation mechanisms that maintain proliferation processes. We analyzed the negative effect of ABA on Arabidopsis cell growth (Figure 3D). In ABA-containing media, VC cells grew poorly and showed arrested cell reproduction; the antisense-RPK1 cell lines continued growing. These antisense transgenic cells remained green (data not shown), whereas VC cells turned yellow in ABA-containing media. This result indicates that RPK1 has an elemental role in cell proliferation that is controlled by ABA. These ABA-insensitive phenotypes of the RPK1 knockouts and antisense transgenic plants suggest that RPK1 is an important positive regulator of the ABA signal transduction pathway of Arabidopsis. We further analyzed the ABA insensitivities of RPK1 knockouts (Figure 4). The growth rate of wild-type Arabidopsis was severely inhibited by exogenously applied ABA. When knockout plants were grown on seed germination media (GM) agar plates containing ABA, growth retardation by ABA was suppressed markedly in the rpk1 knockout plants compared with the wild-type plants (Figure 4A). ABA promotes stomatal closure in guard cells to avoid water loss during drought stress. When control plants were treated with 5 μM ABA for 2 h, most of the stomata were closed. In the RPK1 knockout plants under the same condition, the stomata remained open (Figures 4B and 4C). These results indicate that loss of function of RPK1 causes ABA insensitivity also during plant growth and stomatal closure, suggesting that RPK1 is a positive regulator of the ABA response and regulates diverse ABA responses in development and stress responses. [[FIGURE]] To understand how RPK1 controls the ABA response at the gene expression level, we analyzed downregulated genes in antisense-RPK1 transgenic plants and T87 cells. The 7000 full-length (RIKEN Arabidopsis full-length) cDNA microarray (CITATION) using mRNA prepared from ABA-treated antisense-RPK1 plants and T87 cells was performed and results are shown in Supplemental Table 1 online. The expression patterns of several downregulated genes in antisense-RPK1 transgenic plants were confirmed by RNA gel blot analysis (Figure 5A). Expression levels of other well-known genes regulated by ABA, such as ADH1 (CITATION), RD22, MYC2, AREB1, and several ERD genes (CITATION), also decreased in antisense-RPK1 plants. RNA gel blot analysis revealed that the expression levels of most ABA-inducible genes were decreased in the rpk1-1 mutant (Figure 5A). Expression of several genes that were downregulated in antisense-RPK1 plants was not affected in the rpk1-1 mutant. This different expression may be due to differences in the ecotypes of Arabidopsis and/or to the existence of RPK1 homologs in the Arabidopsis genome, whose expressions might be suppressed in antisense-RPK1 transgenic plants. [[FIGURE]] Several downregulated genes in the antisense-RPK1 transgenic T87 cells were confirmed by RNA gel blot analysis (Figure 5B). Expression levels of these ABA-inducible genes were clearly decreased in the antisense-RPK1 suspension cells. Interestingly, the expression levels of several genes that express constitutively, such as ERD11 and SOD, which are involved in reactive oxygen species (CITATION), were also suppressed. We then attempted to identify the RPK1-regulated genes in the rpk1-2 knockout mutant during seedling development using an Agilent Arabidopsis 2 Oligo Microarray (Agilent Technologies, Palo Alto, CA), which covers >21,000 Arabidopsis genes. Total RNA samples were prepared from ABA-treated rpk1-2 and wild-type plants and used for microarray analysis. We performed two experiments for each RNA sample using different labels, cy3 or cy5. The downregulated genes with ratios of <0.5 are summarized in Table 1 and in Supplemental Tables 2 and 3 online. Among these downregulated genes in rpk1-2, we found the genes for 2S storage protein, 12S storage protein, type 2 peroxiredoxin, and oleosin, which are regulated by ABI3 in the embryo (CITATION). Other seed storage proteins, such as pEARLI1 and legumin proteins, were also included in the downregulated genes. Approximately 44% of the downregulated genes were ABA inducible, as confirmed by the Agilent Arabidopsis 2 Oligo Microarray with 3-week-old Arabidopsis plants (K. Maruyama, unpublished data). Genes Downregulated in rpk1-2 Seedlings as Identified in Microarray Analysis We tried to analyze the function of the RPK1-LRR domain in ABA signal transduction, especially ABA perception, in Arabidopsis. First, we constructed transformation vectors for overexpression of a truncated RPK1 protein containing the RPK1-LRR and transmembrane domains (Figure 6A, RPK1-LRR) and a chimeric protein of the RPK1 N-terminal region including the LRR, transmembrane, and juxtamembrane domains fused to the BRI1 kinase domain (BRI-KD) (Figure 6A, RL-BK). Transgenic plants overexpressing the truncated RPK1 showed ABA insensitivity in plant growth (Figure 6B) and seed germination (Figure 6C) on ABA-containing media. These results suggest that overexpression of the LRR domain has a dominant-negative effect on RPK1. [[FIGURE]] When the chimeric RL-BK protein was overexpressed in Arabidopsis, most of the transgenic plants in each line showed normal growth (Figure 7A, 1 and 2). However, several RL-BK plants showed strong dwarf phenotype (Figure 7A, 4), and a few showed weak dwarf phenotype, whose growth was repressed at the later stage, in each transgenic line (Figure 7A, 3). We named the transgenic lines in the order of the expression levels of RL-BK (L1 to L3; Figure 7B, left). Their dwarf phenotype became more apparent as the expression levels increased (Figures 7B, left, and 7C). We performed quantitative RT-PCR to detect BRI1 expression levels in the RL-BK transgenic lines (Figure 7B, right). The expression levels of BRI1 in both the dwarf and normal growth RL-BK overexpressors were slightly lower than that in the control plants and extremely higher than that in the bri1 mutant, indicating that the dwarf phenotype of the RL-BK overexpressors is not caused by cosuppression of the endogenous BRI1 gene. These results suggest that overexpression of RL-BK has a negative effect on BR signal transduction in transgenic plants. Therefore, we analyzed expression of a BR-related gene in the RL-BK–overexpressing dwarf plants and found that the expression level of the BR-inducible CYCD3 gene was decreased (Figure 7B, left). To define the effect of ABA application on the growth of the RL-BK overexpressors, we then tested the transgenic plants on ABA-containing media. Interestingly, the numbers of dwarf plants increased as the ABA concentration increased (Figure 7C). [[FIGURE]] Furthermore, we performed microarray analysis to detect regulated genes in the RL-BK dwarf plants using the Agilent Arabidopsis 2 Oligo Microarray. Total RNA samples prepared from untreated RL-BK dwarf plants of lines L1 and L3 and from the control plants carrying the transformation vector were used for microarray analysis (see Supplemental Tables 4 and 5 online). Table 2 shows the downregulated genes (ratio of <0.35) in the RL-BK dwarf plants. These genes include many that encode auxin-induced proteins and that are known to be BR responsive (CITATION; CITATION). The results suggest that the BR signaling pathway is repressed in the RL-BK dwarf transgenic plants. On the other hand, we found that many upregulated genes in the RL-BK overexpressors with a ratio of >3.0 (Table 3) contain ABA-inducible genes and seed storage protein genes. The RL-BK transgenic plants showed delayed seed germination on ABA-containing media, suggesting increased sensitivity to ABA. This result suggested that the RL-BK physiological response to ABA is consistent with the microarray data (Figure 7D). Genes Downregulated in RL-BK Overexpressing Plants as Identified by Microarray Analysis Genes Upregulated in RL-BK Overexpressing Plants as Identified by Microarray Analysis
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia [Col] ecotype) was grown on GM agar plates under continuous illumination of ∼2500 lux at 22°C. Transgenic plants and control plants were grown on GM agar plates containing kanamycin (20 mg/L). Arabidopsis (Col) T87 cells were maintained in JPL medium (CITATION) by gentle agitation under continuous illumination of 2500 lux at 22°C. The rpk1 T-DNA knockout of Arabidopsis was isolated by screening the University of Wisconsin Biotechnology Center Arabidopsis Knockout Facility collection of 72,960 BASTA-resistant T-DNA mutant lines (ecotype Ws). A gene-specific primer, 5′-GATCTGCACAAGTACAACTGTGATTCCTT-3′, located 1029 bp upstream of the ATG codon of RPK1, and a T-DNA specific primer, 5′-CATTTTATAATAACGCTGCGGACATCTAC-3′, were used for screening. The position of the T-DNA insert was determined by sequencing of PCR products carrying the T-DNA and genome junctions. After establishing the presence of homozygotes, we confirmed by a backcross that rpk1-1 was recessive and had a single insertion of T-DNA. Total RNA was prepared by the method described previously (CITATION) from Arabidopsis plants grown on GM agar plates for 2 weeks or T87 cells grown in JPL medium for 4 d and treated with or without 10 or 100 μM ABA. Total RNAs were also extracted from wild-type plants treated with distilled water or the plant hormones ABA (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO), ethephon (2-chloroethyl-phosphonic acid; Sigma-Aldrich), MeJA (Wako, Osaka, Japan), 2,4-D (Sigma-Aldrich), BA (Sigma-Aldrich), GA3 (Sigma-Aldrich), and SA (Sigma-Aldrich). Thirty micrograms of total RNA was fractionated in a 1% agarose gel containing formaldehyde and blotted onto a nylon membrane. The membrane was then hybridized with a 32P-labeled RPK1 cDNA fragment or full-length cDNA (CITATION) as a probe. Hybridization was performed in 50% formamide, 5× SSC (1× SSC is 0.15 M NaCl and 0.015 M sodium citrate), 25 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 6.5, 10× Denhardt's solution (1× Denhardt's solution is 0.02% Ficoll, 0.02% polyvinylpyrrolidone, and 0.02% BSA), and 250 μg/mL denatured salmon sperm DNA at 42°C for overnight. The membranes were then washed three times with 0.1× SSC and 0.1% SDS at 60°C for 15 min and subjected to autoradiography. Crude proteins were extracted from wild-type or knockout plants grown on GM agar plates for 3 weeks or from T87 transgenic and wild-type cells grown for 4 d in JPL medium treated with/without 100 μM ABA, then separated by SDS-PAGE and blotted onto a phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride membrane. RPK1 protein was detected with anti-RPK1 peptide antibody with the ECL Plus protein gel blotting detection aystem (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ). ABA-sensitive assays were performed as follows. Seeds of antisense-RPK1, rpk1-1, RPK1-LRR ox, and 35S:RPK1rpk1-1 that carried the 35S:RPK1 full-length cDNA in rpk1-1 and seeds of control plants were sterilized and plated on GM medium containing 1% sucrose and 0 or 0.5 μM ABA. Seeds were grown under continuous light at 22°C. To test the ABA sensitivity of root growth, seeds of the mutants and wild-type plants were grown on GM medium for 6 d. After germination, the seedlings were transferred to fresh GM medium containing various concentrations of ABA. After 10 d of culture, the root lengths were measured. For stomatal movement assay, detached rosette leaves of 4-week-old rpk1 knockouts and control plants grown on soil were incubated for 2 h in 0, 2, and 5 μM ABA solution containing 20 mM KCl, 1 mM CaCl2, and 5 mM Mes-KOH, pH 6.15 (CITATION). Guard cells were photographed under a color laser three-dimensional profile microscope (Keyence, Osaka, Japan). The sense or antisense full-length cDNA fragment of RPK1 was cloned into the pBE2113 vector (CITATION), which contains the modified 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus and the Ω sequence of the Tobacco mosaic virus. For construction of the RPK1-GFP fusion, we used the subcloned RPK1 cDNA as a template and 5′-TGTGAAGAAAAAGATCTAGAATGAAACTTC-3′ as a vector primer to amplify the 1617-bp fragment (from ATG to an internal XbaI site). The fragment was then digested with XbaI and cloned into the XbaI site of the pBI121-sGFP (S65T) vector. To amplify the 815-bp promoter region of the RPK1 gene, we used 5′-GAGGAATACACGTCAAGCTTAAATAAAAAT-3′ and 5′-GGATCCCAGAAGTTTCATTTTTCTTCTTTT-3′, and the amplified fragment was cloned into the pBI101 vector. The constructs were then introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58. Six-week-old wild-type Arabidopsis (Col) or rpk1-1 plants were transformed by the vacuum infiltration method. Fifteen antibiotic-resistant transgenic lines carrying each construct were further analyzed. Arabidopsis T87 suspension cells cultured for 3 d were coincubated with Agrobacterium for 2 d to transform the constructions and then selected out on a callus induction medium plate containing kanamycin. The selected calluses were then incubated in JPL medium. The tissue-specific activity of GUS was detected by the overnight incubation of 2-week-old transgenic plants carrying the RPK1 promoter-GUS construct, in a GUS staining buffer (1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronic acid, 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7, and 8 mM β-mercaptoethanol) at 37°C. Staining was stopped by transferring samples into 70% ethanol, and the chlorophyll was then destained. For GFP analysis, roots from 2-week-old transgenic plants containing 35S:RPK1-GFP or 35S:GFP were examined under a confocal microscope. Five-day-old seedlings of the rpk1-2 and wild-type Ws plants were treated with 10 μM ABA for 5 h. Total RNAs were prepared from the ABA-treated rpk1-2, wild-type Ws plants, the 35S:RL-BK transgenic plants, and the control plants carrying the vector grown on GM agar plates for 3 weeks with Trizol reagent (Gibco BRL, Cleveland, OH) and used for the preparation of Cy5-labeled and Cy3-labeled cDNA probes. Samples were subjected to microarray experiments using the Agilent Arabidopsis 2 Oligo Microarray (Agilent Technologies). All microarray experiments, including the data analysis, were performed according to the supplier's manual (http://www.chem.agilent.com/scripts/generic.asp?lpage=11617andindcol=Nandprodcol=Y). The reproducibility of microarray analysis was assessed by a dye swap in each experiment. Genes showing a signal value <600 in both Cy3 and Cy5 channels of the control plants were not considered for the analysis. Feature extraction and image analysis software (version A.6.1.1; Agilent Technologies) was used to locate and delineate every spot in the array and to integrate each spot's intensity, filtering, and normalization using the Lowess method. Gene clustering analysis was performed with Genespring 6.1 (Silicon Genetics, San Carlos, CA). Trizol reagent was used to extract total RNA for microarray analysis from VC or antisense-RPK1 transgenic plants or T87 cells treated with 10 μM ABA for 5 h. mRNA was prepared with an MACS mRNA isolation kit (Miltenyi Biotec, Bergisch, Gladbach, Germany). mRNAs from the control and antisense plants (antisense T87 cells) were used for preparation of Cy5-labeled and Cy3-labeled cDNA probes, respectively. These cDNA probes were mixed and hybridized with 7K RIKEN Arabidopsis full-length cDNA microarray containing 7000 Arabidopsis cDNAs. The information on the 7K RIKEN Arabidopsis full-length cDNA microarray is available at http://pfgweb.gsc.riken.go.jp/projects/microarray.html. A λ control template DNA fragment (TX803; Takara, Tokyo, Japan) was used as an external control to equalize hybridization signals generated from different samples. To assess the reproducibility of microarray analysis, each experiment was repeated three times. Genes showing a signal value <1000 (which was typically twice the mean background value) in control were not considered for the analyses. The image analysis and signal quantification were performed with QuantArray version 2.0 (GSI Lumonics, Oxnard, CA). Gene clustering analysis was performed with Genespring (Silicon Genetics). The BRI1 gene expression levels in the RL-BK transgenic plants were detected by quantitative RT-PCR. Total RNAs were isolated from the 14-d-old dwarf and normal plants of the transgenic lines (L2 and L3) and control plants with Trizol reagent (Gibco BRL). Reverse transcription of all the RNA samples was performed with SuperScript III RNase H reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). SYBR Premix Ex Taq (Takara) was used for real-time quantitative PCR. We used LightCycler3 (Roche Diagnostics, Indianapolis, IN) and repeated experiments three times. For detection of Bri1, PCR primers 5′-CATTCTTGATCTTTCAAGCAATAAGCTCGATGGG-3′ and 5′-ATCCCATCGCCACACTACCAGCAAGGGACG-3′ were used. Melting curves confirmed that only one product was amplified. Specific cDNA was quantified with a standard curve based on known amounts of amplified BRI1 fragment. The 18S rRNA was also amplified and used for calibration.
