!~ABS~! In higher multicellular eukaryotes, highly specialized membrane structures or membrane trafficking events are required for supporting various physiological functions. SNAREs (soluble NSF attachment protein receptors) play an important role in specific membrane fusions. These protein receptors are assigned to subgroubs (Qa-, Qb-, Qc-, and R-SNARE) according to their specific SNARE structural motif. A specific set of Qa-, Qb-, and Qc-SNAREs, located on the target membrane, interact with R-SNARE on the vesicle to form a tight complex, leading to membrane fusion [ CITATION ]. The zig-1 mutant of Arabidopsis lacking Qb-SNARE VTI11 shows little shoot gravitropism and abnormal stem morphology. VTI11 and its homolog VTI12 exhibit partially overlapping but distinct intracellular localization and have different biological functions in plants [ CITATION ]. Little is known about how SNAREs are targeted to specific organelles, even though their functions and specific localization are closely linked. Here, we report that a novel mutation in VTI12 ( zip1 ) was found as a dominant suppressor of zig-1 . The zip1 mutation gave VTI12 the ability to function as VTI11 by changing both the specificity of SNARE complex formation and its intracellular localization. One amino acid substitution drastically altered VTI12, allowing it to suppress abnormalities of higher order physiological functions such as gravitropism and morphology. The zip1 mutation may be an indication of the flexibility in plant cell function afforded by gene duplication, particularly among the VTI11 genes and their recently diverged orthologs.
!~RES~! A number of diverged SNARE orthologous genes have been found in higher eukaryotic genomes. The Arabidopsis genome has 54 SNARE genes [ CITATION ], and the molecular functions of several SNAREs have been extensively analyzed [ CITATION ]. Forward genetic studies have provided evidence that SNAREs are involved in a number of diverse physiological functions [ CITATION ]. A recent study of cytokinesis-specific KNOLLE (KN)/SYP111 has attempted to address the more general issue of cell biology, such as SNARE specificity, with the tools of molecular genetics [ CITATION ]. We have found that the zig-1 and sgr3 mutants, deficient in Qb-SNARE VTI11 and Qa-SNARE SYP22, respectively, are gravitropic mutants of Arabidopsis [ CITATION ]. VTI11 is localized in the trans -Golgi network (TGN), prevacuolar compartment (PVC), and vacuoles and forms a SNARE complex with SYP21/22 (Qa) and SYP5 (Qc), which are located on the PVC and vacuoles [ CITATION ]. Although direct interactions of R-SNAREs with ZIG/VTI11 have not yet been observed, studies for subcellular localization [ CITATION ] and examination of the vacuole proteome [ CITATION ] have suggested the VAMP71 family of proteins as possible R-SNARE candidates. The zig-1 mutant exhibits anomalous morphogenesis in addition to abnormal gravitropism. The zig-1 phenotype is characterized by small, wrinkled leaves and alternately bending (“zigzag”) primary and lateral inflorescence stems [ CITATION ] ( CITATION A and 1B, and Figure S1 available with this article online). Arabidopsis wild-type (Col-0) inflorescence stems bent upward when they were gravistimulated by horizontal placement, becoming nearly perpendicular in approximately 90 min [ CITATION ] ( CITATION D and 1G). In contrast, zig-1 inflorescence stems showed little response ( CITATION E and 1G), as reported previously [ CITATION ]. To understand the genetic basis of VTI11-mediated vesicular transport, we have isolated several suppressor mutants of zig-1 from EMS-mutagenized zig-1 seeds. One of the suppressor lines, zig suppressor 1 ( zip1 ), strongly suppressed the defects of zig-1 both in gravitropism and morphogenesis. The zip1 zig-1 double mutant had a wild-type phenotype for both inflorescence stems and rosette leaves ( CITATION A, 1C, and S1) and had a gravitropic response similar to wild-type and zip1 /+ zig / zig plants ( CITATION E, 1G, and S1F). All of the F 1 generation progeny resulting from a cross of the double mutant line zip1 zig-1 with the zig-1 mutant line had the wild-type phenotype, indicating that zip1 is a dominant suppressor of zig-1 both for morphogenesis (Figure S2) and gravitropism ( CITATION G). In gravity sensing cells of higher plants, amyloplasts, which are plastids that accumulate dense starch granules, are thought to act as statoliths. In wild-type Arabidopsis shoots, endodermal cells serve as the gravity-sensing cells and contain amyloplasts that sediment in the direction of gravity [ CITATION ]. Amyloplasts did not sediment in either zig-1 or sgr3 mutants [ CITATION ], suggesting that vacuole integrity mediated by TGN-PVC/vacuole vesicle trafficking is important for amyloplast sedimentation. Electron microscopy of zig-1 endodermal cells showed that the amyloplasts were distributed in the peripheral cytoplasm [ CITATION ] ( CITATION I), whereas in the zip1 zig-1 double mutant, amyloplasts are sedimented and surrounded by the vacuolar membrane with a thin cytoplasmic layer ( CITATION J), similar to that which has been observed in the wild-type ( CITATION H). Thus, zip1 is likely to restore the functional integrity of the vacuoles, suggesting that the zip1 mutation may restore vesicle trafficking mediated by VTI11. We cloned the ZIP1 gene relative to its map position. A single nucleotide substitution converts glutamate 129 to lysine in VTI12 (At1g26670) of the zig-1 zip1 mutant ( CITATION ). The zig-1 plants transformed with VTI12 harboring the zip1 mutation had the same phenotype as zip1 zig-1 plants (Figure S3 and Table S1), indicating that the zip1 mutation was in VTI12 . The zip1 single homozygote appears to be the same as wild-type under normal growth conditions (data not shown). VTI11 and VTI12 share a high degree of amino acid sequence similarity ( CITATION B), but VTI11 interacted with SYP21/22 and SYP5 on the PVC/vacuole, whereas VTI12 formed a complex with SYP4 and SYP6 on the TGN [ CITATION ]. How does the zip1 mutation in VTI12 suppress the defects of VTI11? Because expression of excess VTI12 protein suppressed the phenotypic defects of zig-1 to some extent [ CITATION ], we initially tested whether the zip1 mutation causes an increase of VTI12 protein levels in the zip1 zig-1 double mutant. Protein extracts of the inflorescence stems from wild-type, zip1 , vti12 , zig-1 , zip1 /+ zig-1 / zig-1 and zip1 / zip1 zig-1 / zig-1 plants were immunoblotted with anti-VTI12 antibody ( CITATION A). The amount of VTI12 protein in zig-1 plants ( CITATION A, lane 4) was higher than in the wild-type Columbia ecotype ( CITATION A, lane 1). The increase of VTI12 protein in mutants lacking VTI11 may be due to increased expression or stabilization of VTI12 protein, suggesting the presence of a feedback mechanism that regulates homologous SNARE protein levels. However, this increased VTI12 protein cannot fully compensate for the functions of VTI11, as the zig-1 mutant exhibits an obvious aberrant phenotype [ CITATION ]. Most importantly, there was no significant difference in levels of VTI12 among the zig-1 , zip1 /+ zig-1/zig-1 and zip1 / zip1 zig-1/zig-1 mutant lines ( CITATION A, lanes 4, 5, and 6). This result clearly indicates that the zip1 mutation changed the character of VTI12 protein, but not its expression level, resulting in suppression of the zig-1 phenotype. We analyzed whether the VTI12 zip1 protein interacts with SYP22 by immunoprecipitation analysis with anti-SYP22 antibody for wild-type, zip1 , zig-1 , and zip1 zig-1 protein extracts from inflorescence stems ( CITATION B). In zig-1 plants, a little VTI12 protein formed SNARE complexes with SYP22 [ CITATION ] ( CITATION B, lanes 2 and 6), indicating that wild-type VTI12 has some ability to interact with SYP22, but it was not sufficient to substitute for VTI11 function. Most importantly, coimmunoprecipitated VTI12 zip1 levels in the zip1 zig-1 line increased approximately 4-fold compared with wild-type VTI12 in zig-1 plants ( CITATION B, lanes 6 and 8 and CITATION C). This result suggests that the zip1 mutation promotes the formation of SNARE complexes with SYP22, which is not a normal partner of VTI12, so that VTI12 zip1 can substitute for VTI11. In wild-type plants, VTI11 and VTI12 show partially overlapping but distinct intracellular localization. VTI12 is localized to TGN and plasma membranes, whereas VTI11 is associated with TGN and PVC/vacuole. Their SNARE partners SYP4 and SYP21/22 are localized to TGN and PVC/vacuole, respectively [ CITATION ]. In zip1 zig-1 plants, however, coimmunoprecipitation of VTI12 zip1 with SYP22 suggests that VTI12 zip1 should colocalize with SYP22 on the same organelle membrane. Before doing localization analyses with GFP-fused proteins, we confirmed whether GFP-fused VTI11 is functional by introducing GFP-fused VTI11 driven by its native promoter (p VTI11 ) into zig-1 plants. Transgenic plants had wild-type morphology and gravitropism ( CITATION A ), indicating that GFP-VTI11 is functional. In elongating root cells of transgenic plants, GFP was observed on vacuolar membranes by confocal-laser scanning microscopy ( CITATION C). Many dot-like signals of GFP-ZIG were observed at the cell surface, which probably correspond to PVC or TGN ( CITATION B). In cultured cells, the fluorescence of GFP-VTI11 was mainly found on vacuolar membranes, TGN, and PVC ( CITATION D), whereas GFP-VTI12 was on plasma membranes, TGN, and PVC [ CITATION ] ( CITATION E). It should be noted that the localization of GFP-VTI11 in protoplasts is quite similar to root cells of p VTI11/GFP-VTI11 transgenic plants. With VTI12 zip1 as the target protein, GFP is observed on vacuolar membranes, plasma membranes, and dot-like organelles that are probably TGN and/or PVC ( CITATION F). There is a high correlation between the change in SNARE binding partner and localization of VTI12 on membranes normally occupied by VTI11 in the zip1 mutation. The specific localization of SNARE proteins is a prerequisite for correct protein trafficking. There is not a clearly conserved rule, however, about how SNAREs are targeted to specific organelles [ CITATION ]. Interactions between the N terminus of the SNARE motif, and vesicle coat proteins have been suggested as one mechanism for SNARE targeting [ CITATION ]. The zip1 mutation could change the targeting specificity of VTI12, possibly by affecting recognition by vesicle coat proteins. Whether SNAREs are transported individually or as complexes has also remained controversial [ CITATION ]. If VTI1 family proteins are transported as a SNARE complex, zip1 could influence binding affinity to SYP22, resulting in the transport of VTI12 zip1 to PVC/vacuoles together with SYP22. In any case, the reason a zip1 mutation at an amino acid conserved in both VTI11 and VTI12 ( CITATION B) gives VTI12 the ability to act as VTI11 should be addressed in the future. Recently, we have observed movement of amyloplasts and vacuolar membranes in living gravity-sensing endodermal cells and found that a flexible vacuole membrane structure enclosing amyloplasts is important for gravity sensing [ CITATION ]. Vesicle trafficking between TGN and PVC/vacuole is crucial for maintaining vacuole membrane dynamics. Considering that a few SGR genes are involved in vacuolar function, shoot gravitropism of Arabidopsis is the physiological phenotype that most sensitively indicates the state of TGN to PVC/vacuole vesicle trafficking. Suppressor genetics of sgr mutants would be valuable for unraveling a genetic network of complex post-Golgi trafficking in planta . Furthermore, VTI11 is involved not only in gravitropism but also morphology of Arabidopsis . The present study demonstrated that the zip1 mutation, a single amino acid substitution, can convert both specificity and localization of VTI12 to those of VTI11 for functional TGN-PVC/vacuole trafficking, resulting in recovery of higher order physiological functions such as gravitropism and morphology in zig-1 mutant lines. Arabidopsis has four VTI1 family SNAREs (VTI11–VTI14). VTI13 is expressed in seedlings at a lower level than VTI11 or VTI12 , whereas expression of VTI14 was detected only in cultured cells [ CITATION ]. Although VTI11 and VTI12 have distinct functions, phenotypic analysis of mutants revealed that VTI11 plays a major role in planta [ CITATION ]. Because the vti11 vti12 double mutation was lethal in the embryonic stage, VTI11 and VTI12 must have at least partially redundant functions. The molecular functions of VTI11 and VTI12 are interchangeable to some extent because there is a small amount of interaction between SYP21/22 and VTI12 in the zig-1 mutant, and there is some minor interaction of SYP4 with VTI11 in the vti12 mutant [ CITATION ]. Mice also have multiple copies of VTI1 , Vti1a and Vti1b , which are likely to have distinct functions with some redundancy [ CITATION ]. In addition, Vti1a-β, a splicing variant of mouse Vti1a, has an insertion of seven amino acid residues in the region adjacent to the amino terminus of the SNARE motif, which is likely to result in a new sorting destination [ CITATION ]. A possible analogy between mouse and Arabidopsis is that VTI1 family SNAREs may have diverged in their functions to accommodate the complex post-Golgi membrane traffic but have retained some functional overlap. If this proves to be the case, this flexible feature of VTI1 may allow additional novel or redundant functions with a minor molecular change, as in the zip1 and Vti1a-β cases.
!~MM~! The Columbia (Col) ecotype of Arabidopsis thaliana was used as the wild-type. The extragenic suppressor mutant lines of zig-1 were isolated from the M2 population of zig-1 that had been mutagenized with EMS. Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown in soil under constant white light at 23°C. Intact plants with primary stems 4–8 cm in length were placed horizontally in darkness at 23°C, as described previously [ CITATION ], to examine the gravitropic responses of inflorescence stems. The curvature of the stem was measured every 30 min as the angle formed between the growing direction of the apex and the horizontal base line. 18 individuals of each genotype were examined. Electron microscopic observation was performed as described by Morita et al. [ CITATION ]. Confocal-laser scanning microscopic observations of the cultured cells were performed as described [ CITATION ]. Observations of p VTI11 :: GFP - VTI11 transgenic plants were performed with a Leica DMRE microscope equipped with a Model CSU10 confocal scanner (Yokogawa Electric) and cooled CCD camera (ORCA-ER, Hamamatsu Photonics). The zip1 zig-1 double homozygous mutant was crossed to Wassilewskija (Ws) allele zig-3 plants to generate a mapping population. Genetic analyses of zip1 revealed that the suppressor phenotypes are due to a single dominant mutation (Figure S2). F2 progeny with the zig phenotype were selected for mapping. We made some cleaved-amplified polymorphic-sequence (CAPS) markers that can recognize polymorphisms between Col and Ws based on information provided by The Arabidopsis Information Resource. The position of ZIP1 fell approximately in the 2.4 Mb region between markers T26F17 and F3H9. Because the VTI12 gene (At1g26670) locates to the mapped locus, the region encompassing the VTI12 gene was sequenced. The VTI12 gene of zip1 zig-1 contained a single nucleotide substitution ( CITATION A), whereas the VTI12 gene of zig-1 was identical to wild-type. For complementation analysis (Figure S3 and Table S1), the 5.2-kb genomic DNA fragment of VTI12 was amplified from zip1 zig-1 and wild-type plant genome DNA by PCR and cloned into binary vector pBIN19. The resulting constructs pBIN_ gzip1 and pBIN_ gVTI12 were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain MP90 and introduced into zig-1 plants [ CITATION ]. T1 plants were selected by resistance to kanamycin. The presence of the transgene in these plants was confirmed by PCR. Most zig-1 T1 plants containing pBIN_ gzip1 exhibit normal morphology and gravitropism (Figure S3B). Immunoprecipitation of detergent extracts from the shoots was carried out as described [ CITATION ] with minor modifications. Plasmids and carrier DNA were introduced into protoplasts that had been generated from Arabidopsis suspension cultures as described previously [ CITATION ]. GFP-fused VTI11 cDNA was introduced into zig-1 plants under the control of authentic 1.2 kb VTI11 promoter, which had been used for a complementation test of the zig mutant described previously [ CITATION ].
