!~ABS~! Isu are scaffold proteins involved in iron–sulfur cluster biogenesis and playing a key role in yeast mitochondria and Escherichia coli . In this work, we have characterized the Arabidopsis thaliana Isu gene family. AtIsu1,2,3 genes encode polypeptides closely related to their bacterial and eukaryotic counterparts. AtIsu expression in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae Δ isu1 Δ nfu1 thermosensitive mutant led to the growth restoration of this strain at 37 °C. Using Isu-GFP fusions expressed in leaf protoplasts and immunodetection in organelle extracts, we have shown that Arabidopsis Isu proteins are located only into mitochondria, supporting the existence of an Isu-independent Fe–S assembly machinery in plant plastids.
!~RES~! Using E. coli IscU as a starting sequence, a search for genes encoding homologous proteins into the Arabidopsis genome database at TAIR website ( http://arabidopsis.org ) was performed. Three genes encoding putative proteins presenting significant sequence identity with EcIscU were identified (At4g22220, At3g01020, At4g04080). The corresponding cDNAs were cloned by an RT-PCR approach, enabling to correct inaccurate annotation of At3g01020 gene. AtIsu1,2,3 cDNAs correspond respectively to At4g22220, At3g01020, At4g04080 genes. Alignment of AtIsu primary sequences with Isu protein sequences from bacteria, human and yeast revealed a very high conservation of these polypeptides during evolution. AtIsu primary sequences share an average of 65% sequence identity with EcIscU, whereas Arabidopsis Isu1,2,3 share from 69% to 79% identity between them. Among the conserved amino acids, three cysteines are strictly conserved in all Isu sequences ( CITATION ). These residues have been shown to be essential for the function of yeast Isu1p in vivo, as demonstrated by functional complementation of a yeast Δ sod1 Δ isu1 strain CITATION . It has been established that IscU interact with HscA-like chaperones through an LPPVK motif CITATION . This sequence is strictly conserved in AtIsu proteins suggesting a similar protein–protein interaction in plants. The existence of HscA homologous genes in Arabidopsis genome, whose product are predicted to be targeted to mitochondria, support such a hypothesis. Comparison of eukaryotic Isu and their bacterial counterparts revealed the presence of an Nt extension ( CITATION ). This additional sequence is known to be involved into the mitochondrial targeting of human IscU2 CITATION and yeast Isu proteins CITATION . Arabidopsis Isu primary sequences also include such a peptide, which could therefore play a role into the intracellular targeting of these proteins. Primary sequence analysis of AtIsu strongly support that these highly conserved proteins are functional members of the Isu Fe–S scaffold family of proteins. To investigate such a function in vivo, a yeast complementation assay was performed using a strain affected in Isu1 gene. Δ isu1 Δ nfu1 mutant strain was first described by Schilke et al. CITATION who demonstrated its thermosensitive growth defect, while no phenotype was observed for single Isu1 or Nfu1 mutants. We have previously used Δ isu1 Δ nfu1 strain for the functional characterization of AtNfu proteins CITATION . The thermosensitivity of the mutant strain was confirmed by its growth defect at 37 °C when transformed with a pFL38 empty vector ( CITATION ). On the opposite, expression of AtIsu1,2 or 3 into the Δ isu1 Δ nfu1 yeast strain resulted in a growth restoration of the mutant at 37 °C ( CITATION ). Such an experiment argues in favour of the ability of the AtIsu proteins to act as Fe–S scaffold in yeast mitochondria. AtIsu gene expression was investigated using non-quantitative RT-PCR in different organs of 35-day-old plants. Isu1 transcript appeared to be expressed in all tissues tested ( CITATION ), like the actin control, in agreement with data recently published by Tone et al. CITATION . On the contrary, Isu2 and 3 mRNA showed distinct and specific patterns of expression. Both mRNA were detected in leaves and flowers RNA samples. Isu2 mRNA expression pattern was restricted to these two organs, whereas Isu3 was also present in roots. The presence of a putative targeting peptide within AtIsu protein sequences led us to investigate their intracellular localization. Yeast Isu proteins are located into mitochondria, the unique site for Fe–S biogenesis in this organism. However in plant cells, both plastids and mitochondria would be involved in Fe–S biogenesis. Tong et al. CITATION have investigated the expression of human IscU gene. This single gene produces two distinct mRNA by alternative splicing, differing only in their 5′ region. Such a divergence lead to the expression of Iscu2 protein addressed to the mitochondria, and IscU1 remaining in the cytosol. We have performed 5′ RACE experiments using mRNA extracted from the different tissues mentioned in CITATION , and we were able to detect only one mRNA species for each AtIsu (data not shown). Such data rule out the possibility of a differential targeting of Arabidopsis Isu by a similar mechanism as the one occurring in human. To determine the intracellular localization of AtIsu proteins, fusions were prepared between 5′ part of the Isu cDNA, containing the putative targeting sequence, and the GFP coding region. The chimeric proteins were transiently expressed in tobacco leaf protoplasts under the control of the 35S promoter. GFP protein from the control vector was detected into the cytosol and the nucleus, whereas Isu::GFP fusions appeared to be targeted to an intracellular compartment ( CITATION ). Using Mitotracker as a fluorescent marker for mitochondria, AtIsu were located into mitochondria. No signal was detected in chloroplasts, visualized using the chlorophyll autofluorescence. To further confirm the intracellular localization of AtIsu polypeptides, recombinant Isu1 protein, deleted of its targeting sequence, was produced in E. coli and polyclonal antibodies were raised against this polypeptide. According to the very high conservation of Arabidopsis Isu primary sequences, we have chosen to produce antibodies against only one of the three AtIsu, assuming it will recognize the two other proteins. Fractionation of leaf material was performed to produce mitochondria and chloroplast enriched fractions. Purity of the fractions was assessed using antibodies raised against chloroplast ribosome recycling factor (RRF) or subunit 9 of mitochondrial NADH dehydrogenase ( CITATION ). Immunodetection of Isu proteins in these samples revealed a signal only into the mitochondrial fraction ( CITATION ), confirming therefore the results obtained using the GFP, and the absence of the Isu Fe–S scaffold protein in the chloroplasts.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) plants were grown as previously described CITATION . Tobacco plants ( Nicotiana tabacum cv petit havana SR1) were grown in vitro according to Vansuyt et al. CITATION . RNA samples described in CITATION were used and RT-PCR was performed as described CITATION . cDNAs were amplified using the following primers: 5′-TCCG TCTAGA AAAAGTTACTTCCGAAACCC-3′ and 5′-TCCG GGTACC GGTTGTATGTATCATCCTCTTC-3′ for Isu1, 5′-TCCG TCTAGA CAAGCTCCATAGAGAGAAGCG-3′ and 5′-TCCG GGTACC TCTGTTTGGGTCATAAAACATC-3′ for Isu2, 5′-TCCG TCTAGA CTGCCCTTGATTCCGGCAAAGAG-3′ and 5′-TCCG GGTACC CTTGGGATCTGGGTCACATGC-3′ for Isu3 (restriction sites are indicated as bold type). Digested PCR products were subcloned into the pYPGE15 vector at Xba I– Kpn I sites CITATION and sequenced. A fragment of Isu1 cDNA was amplified using primers 5′-GCTGA CATATG CGAACCTACCATGAGAACGTC-3′ and 5′-GCTAG CTCGAG AGCCTGTGTGGTTTCTCCTGC-3′, and subcloned into pET20 plasmid at Nde I– Xho I sites in frame with the His-Tag sequence. Plasmid constructs were introduced into E. coli BL21 strain and crude extract was prepared from a 3 h culture in LB medium at 37 °C. His-tagged recombinant Isu1 protein was purified using Ni-NTA agarose (Qiagen) according to the supplier instructions. Polyclonal antibodies were raised in rabbits against the recombinant protein (Elevage Scientifique des Dombes, France). Protein samples used have been described in CITATION . Proteins were separated by SDS–PAGE and transferred to Hybond-P membrane (Amersham Biosciences, UK) according to CITATION . Aurora kit (ICN) was used for chemiluminescent detection according to the manufacturer instructions. AtIsu cDNAs were subcloned into the pFL38 centromeric vector. Saccharomyces cerevisiae Δ isu1 Δ nfu1 strain was obtained previously CITATION . Yeast were grown in yeast nitrogen base medium (2% glucose, 0.17% YNB and 0.5% ammonium sulfate) containing the required amino acids. Δ isu1 Δ nfu1 strain was grown at 30 or 37 °C as indicated. Yeast transformation was performed by the lithium acetate method CITATION . A fragment of Isu cDNAs encoding the Nt region of the proteins (nt 1–171 for Isu1, nt 1–164 for Isu2, nt 1–167 for Isu3) was amplified using the upstream primers containing Xba I sites described above and the following primers: 5′-TCCG GGATCC AAGACCCAACGTTGCGGGGA-3′ for Isu1, 5′-TCCG GGATCC ATGATCCAACGTTACGGGG-3′ for Isu2, 5′-TCCG GGATCC AGGAGCCAACGTTTCTAGGG-3′ for Isu3. PCR fragments were digested and subcloned into Xba I– Bam HI sites of pBi-GF vector CITATION , in frame with the GFP coding sequence. Tobacco leaf protoplasts were prepared from in vitro cultures according to Lukaszewicz et al. CITATION . Protoplasts were transformed and observed using a confocal microscope as previously described CITATION .
