!~ABS~! SAC (for suppressor of actin) domain proteins in yeast and animals have been shown to modulate the levels of phosphoinositides, thereby regulating several cellular activities such as signal transduction, actin cytoskeleton organization, and vesicle trafficking. Nine genes encoding SAC domain–containing proteins are present in the Arabidopsis thaliana genome, but their roles in plant cellular functions and plant growth and development have not been characterized. In this report, we demonstrate the essential roles of one of the Arabidopsis SAC domain proteins, AtSAC1, in plant cellular functions. Mutation of the AtSAC1 gene in the fragile fiber7 (fra7) mutant caused a dramatic decrease in the wall thickness of fiber cells and vessel elements, thus resulting in a weak stem phenotype. The fra7 mutation also led to reduced length and aberrant shapes in fiber cells, pith cells, and trichomes and to an alteration in overall plant architecture. The AtSAC1 gene was found to be expressed in all tissues in elongating organs; however, it showed predominant expression in vascular tissues and fibers in nonelongating parts of stems. In vitro activity assay demonstrated that AtSAC1 exhibited phosphatase activity toward phosphatidylinositol 3,5-biphosphate. Subcellular localization studies showed that AtSAC1 was colocalized with a Golgi marker. Truncation of the C terminus by the fra7 mutation resulted in its localization in the cytoplasm but had no effect on phosphatase activity. Furthermore, examination of the cytoskeleton organization revealed that the fra7 mutation caused the formation of aberrant actin cables in elongating cells but had no effect on the organization of cortical microtubules. Together, these results provide genetic evidence that AtSAC1, a SAC domain phosphoinositide phosphatase, is required for normal cell morphogenesis, cell wall synthesis, and actin organization.
!~RES~! Arabidopsis inflorescence stems develop interfascicular fibers that provide the main mechanical strength to the mature stems (CITATION). We screened for fiber mutants based on the property of the mechanical strength of the stems. The fra7 mutant thus isolated exhibited a dramatic reduction in the breaking strength of stems (Figure 1A). The force required to break the basal mature stems was four times lower in fra7 compared with the wild type. [[FIGURE]] To investigate what defects in the interfascicular fibers caused the reduced stem strength, we examined the anatomical features of fiber cells. Cross sections showed that although fra7 developed interfascicular fibers as in the wild type, they apparently had an altered morphology and a reduction in wall thickness (Figures 1B and 1C). The mutant fiber cells appeared to be larger in diameter and less regular in shape compared with those of the wild type. Longitudinal sections showed that the mutant fiber cells were misshapen and much shorter compared with wild-type cells (Figures 1D and 1E). Examination of fiber wall thickness by transmission electron microscopy revealed that the wall thickness of fra7 fiber cells was reduced to 51% of that of the wild type (Figures 2A to 2D, Table 1). These results demonstrated that fra7 caused a defect in cell elongation and secondary wall synthesis in interfascicular fiber cells that likely resulted in the reduced stem strength. [[FIGURE]] Wall Thickness of Fibers, Vessels, and Pith Cells in the Stems of Wild-Type and fra7 Mutant Plants The observation that the fra7 mutation affected the wall thickness of fiber cells prompted us to analyze the cell wall composition in the mutant. Analysis of cell walls from inflorescence stems showed that crystalline cellulose in the mutant was reduced to 87% of that in the wild type (Table 2). Cell wall sugar composition analysis revealed a slight decrease in the amount of glucose and xylose in the mutant compared with the wild type (Table 2). Because the reduction in fiber wall thickness was much greater than that in cellulose and glucose content, these results indicate that fra7 most likely causes a reduction in overall cell wall synthesis rather than specifically affects cellulose synthesis. Cell Wall Composition of the Stems of Wild-Type and fra7 Mutant Plants In addition to the abnormal fiber cells, we found that fra7 affected the morphology of other cell types in stems. The most noticeable alteration was seen in longitudinal sections of pith cells. Although wild-type pith cells were rectangular and arranged in longitudinal files along the elongation axis of stems (Figure 1F), the majority of pith cells in fra7 had irregular shapes and, consequently, did not exhibit regular cell files (Figure 1G). In addition, the shapes of vessel elements in the xylem bundles were also altered in the mutant (Figures 1H and 1I). Transmission electron microscopy showed that compared with the wild type, the wall thickness of fra7 vessel elements and pith cells was decreased by 30 and 36%, respectively (Figures 2E to 2H, Table 1). These results demonstrated that the fra7 mutation caused defects in cellular morphogenesis and cell wall synthesis in both fiber cells and nonfiber cells. To determine whether the fra7 mutation affected overall plant growth, we examined the morphology of plants at different developmental stages (Figure 3). Shorter roots and hypocotyls were seen in 4-d-old light-grown and dark-grown fra7 seedlings, respectively, compared with the wild type (Figures 3A and 3B, Table 3). The height of fra7 inflorescence stems was also reduced (Figure 3C, Table 3), apparently as a result of the reduction in cell length, as seen in pith cells (Figure 1G). Overall plant morphology was altered dramatically by the fra7 mutation. Both the main inflorescence stems and cauline branches were crooked instead of the relatively straight stature seen in the wild type (Figures 3C to 3E). The angles of cauline branches, cauline leaves, and siliques relative to the stem axis were widened in the mutant compared with the wild type. Quantitative measurement showed that the average angle of cauline branches was increased by 48% in the mutant (Table 3). [[FIGURE]] Length of Cells and Organs of Wild-Type and fra7 Mutant Plants Furthermore, we found that the development of trichomes was affected by the fra7 mutation. Trichomes in the wild type typically had a short stalk and three long, pointy branches (Figure 3F). Although the number of branches was not altered in the trichomes of fra7, the fra7 trichomes appeared to have a much thicker stalk and shorter, crooked branches (Figure 3G). Examination of leaf epidermal cells revealed that some ordinary epidermal cells in the fra7 mutant were swollen and less sinuous in shape compared with those in the wild type (Figures 3H and 3I). Together, these results demonstrated that fra7 caused morphological alterations at both the cellular and organ levels. To investigate the molecular mechanisms responsible for the cellular defects in fra7, we undertook the cloning of the FRA7 gene. Because fra7 was isolated from an ethyl methanesulfonate–mutagenized population of Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia), a map-based cloning approach was used. The mutant was crossed with the wild-type ecotype Landsberg erecta, and homozygous fra7 plants were selected from the F2 plants and used for mapping with the codominant amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) markers (CITATION). The fra7 locus was found to be closely linked to the F9P14 marker on chromosome 1 (Figure 4A). Further mapping with adjacent markers indicated that the fra7 locus resided between markers F16F4 and m235. Based on the sequence information of overlapping BAC clones between these two markers, we designed additional CAPS markers and used them to gradually narrow the fra7 locus to a 63-kb region covered by BAC clones F12K8 and T22J18 (Figure 4A). [[FIGURE]] According to the gene annotations of chromosome 1 from the Arabidopsis genome database, the 63-kb region where the fra7 locus resides encompasses 11 putative genes. To determine which of these genes carried the fra7 mutation, we sequenced all 11 genes from fra7. By comparing the gene sequences from the mutant with those from the wild type, we found a point mutation (C-to-T) in one of the genes, F12K8.3. The F12K8.3 gene is also named T22J18.20 because it is located in the overlapping region of BAC clones F12K8 and T22J18. The C-to-T mutation in F12K8.3 was further revealed by loss of the XcmI site in fra7 (Figure 4C). To confirm that the C-to-T mutation in F12K8.3 was responsible for the phenotypes conferred by fra7, we introduced the wild-type F12K8.3 gene into fra7 by Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation. Expression of the wild-type F12K8.3 gene in fra7 plants completely rescued the phenotypes conferred by fra7, including the stem mechanical strength, the length and wall thickness of fiber cells, the shape of pith cells, and the whole plant morphology (data not shown). These results unequivocally demonstrated that the C-to-T mutation in F12K8.3 resulted in the phenotypes conferred by fra7; therefore, F12K8.3 represents the FRA7 gene. The FRA7 gene consists of 4899 bp from the start codon to the stop codon. It is organized into 16 exons and 15 introns (Figure 4A). The fra7 mutation occurs in the 13th exon. Comparison of the wild-type and mutant cDNAs and their deduced amino acid sequences revealed that the fra7 mutation changed a Gln codon CAA into a stop codon TAA (Figure 4B), which results in a truncated protein with a deletion of 199 amino acid residues. The deduced FRA7 protein consists of 912 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of 102,812 D and a predicted pI of 6.2. A BLAST search of the GenBank database revealed that FRA7 contains a domain that shares high sequence similarity with the SAC domains of a group of proteins found in yeast and animals. The SAC domains in yeast and animal proteins are ∼400 amino acids in length and contain seven conserved motifs (CITATION). The putative SAC domain in FRA7 is also ∼400 amino acids in length and shares 26% identity and 55% similarity with the yeast and animal SAC domains (Figure 5A). The FRA7 SAC domain retained all seven conserved motifs. In particular, the proposed catalytic core sequence RXNCXDCLDRTN, which is located in the sixth motif, is completely conserved in the putative FRA7 SAC domain (Figure 5A). The Arabidopsis genome has been shown to contain nine genes encoding SAC domain proteins AtSAC1 to AtSAC9 (CITATION), and FRA7 represents AtSAC1. Therefore, the name AtSAC1 will be used hereafter. The fra7 nonsense mutation occurred in the C-terminal region outside the SAC domain (Figure 5B), indicating that the C-terminal region of AtSAC1 is essential for its cellular functions. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the expression pattern of AtSAC1, we used the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene to examine its expression in different tissues. A 1.2-kb 5′ upstream sequence and the entire exon and intron region of AtSAC1 were ligated in frame with the GUS reporter gene in the binary vector pBI101. The AtSAC1-GUS construct was introduced into both wild-type and fra7 plants. Expression of the AtSAC1-GUS construct in fra7 plants was found to completely rescue the phenotypes conferred by fra7 (data not shown), indicating that the AtSAC1 sequence used in the construct contains all elements responsible for the expression of the endogenous AtSAC1 gene. Analysis of GUS activity in transgenic plants revealed that GUS staining was highly present in the root apex and gradually became concentrated in vascular tissues in the mature region of the root (Figures 6A and 6B). In young cotyledons (Figure 6C) and leaves (Figure 6D), GUS staining was seen in all tissues, with more prominent staining in vascular strands. In flowers, the staining was seen mainly in filaments and in the apical region of the style (Figure 6E). [[FIGURE]] Examination of the GUS activity in inflorescence stems showed that although staining was present in all tissues in rapidly elongating internodes (Figure 6F), it was more concentrated in interfascicular fiber cells and vascular bundles in the internodes that were near the end of elongation (Figure 6G). In nonelongating internodes in which fiber cells were undergoing secondary wall thickening (CITATION), GUS staining was found only in fiber cells and vascular bundles (Figures 6H and 6I). These results indicate that the expression of AtSAC1 is developmentally regulated. Its ubiquitous expression in elongating cells and continuous expression in developing fiber cells are consistent with the phenotypes conferred by fra7 of defective cell elongation and secondary wall thickening. To investigate whether AtSAC1 possesses phosphoinositide phosphatase activity, we expressed a V5 epitope–tagged recombinant AtSAC1 protein in yeast for the activity assay. The recombinant protein was purified by immunoprecipitation with a monoclonal antibody against the V5 epitope (Figure 7A) and assayed for its phosphatase activity toward various phospholipids. AtSAC1 was found to hydrolyze phosphate from PtdIns(3,5)P2 but not from other phospholipids (Figure 7B). AtSAC1 did not exhibit any phosphatase activity toward the water-soluble inositol polyphosphates Ins(1,4,5)P3 and Ins(1,3,4,5)P4 (data not shown), in agreement with yeast and animal SAC domain phosphatases that only hydrolyze phosphate from phospholipids (CITATION). Because the fra7 mutation caused a truncation of the C terminus beyond the SAC domain, we tested whether the fra7 mutant protein still retains phosphatase activity. It was found that recombinant fra7 mutant protein exhibited phosphatase activity toward PtdIns(3,5)P2 (Figure 7B) identical to that of the full-length AtSAC1. These results demonstrate that AtSAC1 is a PtdIns(3,5)P2 phosphatase and that truncation of the C terminus by fra7 does not affect its activity. [[FIGURE]] Because truncation of the AtSAC1 C terminus by the fra7 mutation did not affect its phosphatase activity, we next investigated whether there were any differences in the subcellular localization of AtSAC1 and the fra7 mutant protein. AtSAC1 and fra7 were expressed as green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion proteins in transgenic Arabidopsis plants, and the GFP signals in root epidermal cells were visualized with a confocal microscope. It was found that although AtSAC1-GFP displayed a punctate pattern (Figures 8A and 8B), fra7-GFP was distributed throughout the cytoplasm (Figures 8C and 8D). These results indicate that AtSAC1-GFP is associated with certain organelles and that truncation of the AtSAC1 C terminus by fra7 alters its subcellular localization. The GFP control protein was seen in both cytoplasm and nucleus (Figures 8E and 8F), consistent with the subcellular localization pattern of the GFP control protein reported previously (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To ascertain the exact subcellular location of AtSAC1, we used carrot (Daucus carota) protoplasts to study the colocalization of AtSAC1 with various organelle markers. Like AtSAC1-GFP in Arabidopsis root cells, AtSAC1–enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP) and AtSAC1–enhanced cyan fluorescent protein (ECFP) displayed punctate localization patterns in carrot protoplasts (Figure 9). It was found that the punctate pattern of AtSAC1-EYFP was almost identical to the localization pattern of the Golgi marker Arabidopsis proton-translocating pyrophosphatase2 (AVP2) (Figures 9A to 9D) (CITATION) but showed obvious differences from those of the prevacuolar membrane marker Ras-related small GTP binding protein1 (Rha1) (Figures 9E to 9H) (CITATION) and an ER marker (Figures 9I to 9L). These results suggest that AtSAC1 is associated with Golgi in the cells. [[FIGURE]] As in the Arabidopsis root cells, fra7-EYFP was distributed throughout the cytoplasm in carrot protoplasts (Figures 9M and 9N), a localization pattern similar to that of the cytoplasm-localized EYFP control protein (Figures 9O and 9P). These observations indicate that the C terminus of AtSAC1 is essential for its proper subcellular localization in the cells. It is interesting that the C terminus of yeast Fig4, another SAC domain PtdIns(3,5)P2 phosphatase, is also required for its proper subcellular localization (CITATION). It has been demonstrated that yeast Sac1p influences the organization of the actin cytoskeleton in yeast cells (CITATION). To investigate whether AtSAC1 was involved in cytoskeletal regulation, we examined the organization of filamentous actin (F-actin) and cortical microtubules in interfascicular fiber cells and pith cells in the stems (Figure 10). Immunocytochemical study showed that in the elongating fiber cells of the wild type, the F-actin cables formed a fine network (Figure 10A). By contrast, in the elongating fiber cells of fra7, the F-actin cables appeared to lose their fine network organization (Figure 10B). A similar alteration in F-actin organization was also seen in the elongating pith cells of fra7 stems (Figures 10E and 10F). Examination of the organization of cortical microtubules in elongating fibers and pith cells did not show any apparent differences between fra7 and the wild type (Figures 10C, 10D, 10G, and 10H). These results demonstrated that the fra7 mutation affected the organization of the actin cytoskeleton but had no effect on cortical microtubules. [[FIGURE]] It has been shown that F-actin influences cellulose microfibril deposition in brown algal cells (CITATION). To investigate whether the cellulose microfibril deposition was altered in the fra7 mutant, we examined the cellulose microfibril orientation in pith cells using field emission scanning electron microscopy. In the innermost layer of walls of wild-type elongating cells, the cellulose microfibrils ran in parallel and were oriented transversely along the elongation axis (Figure 11A). This is the typical orientation pattern of cellulose microfibrils that has been reported in elongating cells of several Arabidopsis organs (CITATION; CITATION). The cellulose microfibrils in the walls of elongating fra7 pith cells were generally oriented transversely along the long axis (Figure 11B). It was noticed that occasionally, in the walls of some misshapen cells, the cellulose microfibrils were deposited with slight deviations from the transverse orientation (Figures 11C), but no random orientation was observed. These results indicate that the fra7 mutation had no apparent effect on cellulose microfibril deposition. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! M2 Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) plants generated from ethyl methanesulfonate mutagenization were grown in a greenhouse, and their inflorescence stems were screened for mutants with reduced breaking strength. Stems were divided into three equal segments, and each segment was measured for its breaking force using a digital force/length tester (model DHT4-50; Larson System, Minneapolis, MN). The breaking force was calculated as the force needed to break apart a stem segment (CITATION). Putative mutants with reduced stem-breaking strength were selected and backcrossed with wild-type Columbia three times before analysis. Stem samples were fixed in 2% (v/v) glutaraldehyde in PEMT buffer (50 mM Pipes, 2 mM EGTA, 2 mM MgSO4, and 0.05% [v/v] Triton X-100, pH 7.2) at 4°C overnight. After being washed in phosphate buffer (50 mM, pH 7.2), samples were postfixed in 2% (v/v) OsO4 for 2 h and then dehydrated through a gradient of ethanol, cleared in propylene oxide, and embedded in Araldite/Embed 812 resin (Electron Microscopy Sciences, Fort Washington, PA). One-micrometer-thick sections were cut, stained with toluidine blue, and viewed with a light microscope. For transmission electron microscopy, 90-nm ultrathin sections were cut, mounted on Formvar-coated gold slot grids, poststained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate, and observed with a Zeiss EM 902A electron microscope (Zeiss, Jena, Germany). For visualization of leaf epidermis, mature leaves were cryoprepared, surface-coated with gold, and observed with a LEO982 FE scanning electron microscope (Leo Electron Microscopy, Thornwood, NY). Inflorescence stems of 10-week-old plants were collected for cell wall isolation. Stems were ground into fine powder in liquid nitrogen with a mortar and pestle, homogenized with a Polytron, and extracted in 70% ethanol at 70°C. The remaining cell wall residues were dried in a vacuum oven at 60°C and used for analysis of cellulose amount and sugar composition. Crystalline cellulose was measured with the acetic-nitric anthrone reagent according to CITATION. Cell wall sugars (as alditol acetates) were determined according to the procedure described by CITATION. All samples were run in triplicate. The fra7 mutant (ecotype Columbia) was crossed with Arabidopsis ecotype Landsberg erecta to generate 1250 F2 mapping plants. Fine mapping of the fra7 locus was done with CAPS markers according to CITATION. CAPS markers were developed based on sequence information from the Cereon Arabidopsis polymorphic database (http://www.arabidopsis.org/cereon). For complementation analysis, the wild-type AtSAC1 gene was amplified by PCR, confirmed by sequencing, and cloned into the binary vector pBI101. The construct was then introduced into fra7 by Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on kanamycin and grown to maturity for analysis of their ability to complement the mutant phenotypes. The expression pattern of AtSAC1 was studied using the GUS reporter gene. The AtSAC1 gene, including a 1.2-kb upstream sequence and the entire exon and intron region, was amplified by PCR using high-fidelity DNA polymerase with gene-specific primers (5′-TTGCCACATTTAGGACAACTCTTC-3′ and 5′-ATTGACTTGCTTAGGCATCAGGCG-3′), confirmed by sequencing, and ligated in frame with the GUS reporter gene in the pBI101 vector. The construct was transformed into wild-type and fra7 mutant plants by the Agrobacterium-mediated transformation procedure (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on kanamycin and used for expression analysis of the GUS reporter gene. Tissues were first immersed in 90% ice-cold acetone for 20 min and then incubated in GUS staining solution (100 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, 10 mM EDTA, 0.5 mM ferricyanide, 0.5 mM ferrocyanide, and 1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl β-d-glucuronic acid) at 37°C. After being cleared in 70% ethanol, the tissues were observed for GUS staining with a light microscope. The full-length cDNA of wild-type AtSAC1 and the truncated fra7 mutant cDNA were amplified by PCR using high-fidelity DNA polymerase from cDNAs synthesized from wild-type or fra7 stems, respectively. The amplified cDNAs were confirmed by sequencing and ligated in frame into the yeast expression vector pYES3/CT that is tagged with the V5 epitope (GKPIPNPLLGLDST) at the C terminus (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). The constructs were transformed into the yeast strain INVSc1 (Invitrogen). The expression of recombinant proteins was induced in the presence of 2% galactose for 24 h. After induction, yeast cells were broken using glass beads, and the crude protein extracts were used for immunoprecipitation of recombinant proteins by incubating with a monoclonal antibody against the V5 epitope (Invitrogen) and agarose bead–conjugated secondary antibodies. The immunoprecipitates were washed six times before use for further analysis. The expression of recombinant proteins was confirmed by immunoblot analysis. Purified recombinant proteins were separated on a 12.5% SDS gel and transferred onto a nitrocellulose membrane. The recombinant proteins were detected by incubation with a monoclonal antibody against the V5 epitope and horseradish peroxidase–conjugated secondary antibodies. The control used was the immunoprecipitates from yeast cells harboring the expression vector pYES3/CT alone. Both recombinant wild-type AtSAC1 and mutant fra7 proteins were confirmed to be expressed in yeast cells. Purified recombinant protein immunoprecipitates were used for phosphoinositide phosphatase activity assay. Phospholipids (Echelon, Salt Lake City, UT) were dissolved in the reaction buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.0, 0.25% β-d-octylglucoside, 5 mM MgCl2, 10 mM KCl, and 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride) with the aid of sonication. The phosphatase activity of recombinant proteins was measured by mixing 100 μM substrates in the reaction buffer with the immunoprecipitates, and the mixture was incubated at 30°C for 50 min. The reactions were agitated every 10 min during incubation. The free phosphate released from the substrates was detected by the malachite green method (CITATION). The immunoprecipitates from yeast cells harboring the expression vector alone were used as a control in the assay, and no activity was detected. The amount of fusion protein used in the assay was estimated by comparing the fusion protein bands with known amounts of V5-tagged β-galactosidase on the immunoblots. All assays were run in duplicate and repeated twice, and identical results were obtained. The AtSAC1 gene, including a 1.2-kb upstream sequence and the entire exon and intron region, was amplified by PCR, confirmed by sequencing, and then fused in frame with the GFP cDNA (ABRC, Columbus, OH; developed by S.J. Davis and R.D. Vierstra) in the binary vector pBI101. For expression of fra7-GFP, AtSAC1 truncated at the fra7 mutation site was used. The AtSAC1-GFP and fra7-GFP constructs were introduced into Arabidopsis plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transgenic plants were selected on kanamycin, and T2 progeny were used for GFP localization. The GFP signals from roots of 3-d-old transgenic seedlings were viewed with a Leica TCs SP2 spectral confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems, Heidelberg, Germany). Images were saved and processed with Adobe Photoshop version 7.0 (Adobe Systems, Mountain View, CA). To determine the exact subcellular localization of AtSAC1, the AtSAC1 cDNA was fused in frame with an EYFP or an ECFP and ligated between the Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase terminator in a high-copy vector. The expression constructs were cotransfected into carrot (Daucus carota) protoplasts with several EYFP- or ECFP-tagged markers for various organelles. These markers include the Golgi-localized AVP2 (CITATION), the prevacuolar membrane marker Rha1 (CITATION), and an ER-localized marker containing the calrecticulin targeting sequence and the ER retention sequence (BD Biosciences, Palo Alto, CA). Three-day-old subcultured carrot cells were digested with a mixture of cell wall–digesting enzymes (Driselase; Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) to generate protoplasts. The protoplasts (6 × 105) in 300 μL of transfection solution (154 mM NaCl, 5 mM KCl, 125 mM CaCl2, and 5 mM glucose, pH 6.0) were mixed with 20 μg of AtSAC1-EYFP or AtSAC1-ECFP and 20 μg of marker constructs (CITATION). After the addition of 300 μL of 40% (w/v) polyethylene glycol, the mixture was incubated for 5 min with mixing and then transferred to 4 mL of cell culture media. The transfected protoplasts were incubated in darkness for 20 h before examination with a Leica TCs SP2 spectral confocal microscope. Images from single optical sections were collected and processed with Adobe Photoshop version 7.0. Actin filaments and cortical microtubules in wild-type and fra7 mutant cells were immunolocalized according to CITATION. Elongating inflorescence stems of 6-week-old plants were fixed in PEMT buffer containing 1.5% (v/v) formaldehyde and 0.5% (v/v) glutaraldehyde. It has been reported that aldehyde fixation preserves actin filaments well in plant cells and that the common failures to localize actin filaments are attributable to such subsequent steps as wax embedding after fixation (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, fixed stems were used directly for immunolocalization. It has been shown that the F-actin patterns revealed by histolocalization and GFP-tagged talin are comparable (CITATION). Thin sections (100 μm thick) were cut longitudinally with a vibratome. Sections were incubated with monoclonal antibodies against chicken actin (ICN, Aurora, OH) or chicken α-tubulin (Sigma-Aldrich) and fluorescein isothiocyanate–conjugated secondary antibodies. The fluorescence-labeled microtubules and F-actins were viewed with a Leica TCs SP2 spectral confocal microscope. Images were saved and processed with Adobe Photoshop version 7.0. Pith cells from elongating inflorescence stems of 6-week-old plants were used for visualization of cellulose microfibrils in the innermost layer of cell walls using field emission scanning electron microscopy according to CITATION. Stem segments were sectioned longitudinally through pith cells and fixed in PEMT buffer containing 4% (v/v) formaldehyde. After dehydration, sections were dried in a semidry critical point drier (Tousimis, Rockville, MD) and mounted on stubs with carbon paste. Sections were coated with platinum using an Edwards 306 vacuum evaporator (Edwards High Vacuum International, Wilmington, MA) and then examined for cellulose microfibrils using a LEO 982 FE scanning electron microscope. The GenBank accession numbers for the sequences shown in Figure 5 are AY227244 (AtSAC1), X51672 (Sac1p), NM_053798 (rSAC1), NM_014937 (hSAC2), and NM_003895 (Synapto).
