!~ABS~! Interactions between proteins are essential for their functioning and the biological processes they control. The elucidation of interaction maps based on yeast studies is a first step toward the understanding of molecular networks and provides a framework of proteins that possess the capacity and specificity to interact. Here, we present a comprehensive plant protein–protein interactome map of nearly all members of the Arabidopsis thaliana MADS box transcription factor family. A matrix-based yeast two-hybrid screen of >100 members of this family revealed a collection of specific heterodimers and a few homodimers. Clustering of proteins with similar interaction patterns pinpoints proteins involved in the same developmental program and provides valuable information about the participation of uncharacterized proteins in these programs. Furthermore, a model is proposed that integrates the floral induction and floral organ formation networks based on the interactions between the proteins involved. Heterodimers between flower induction and floral organ identity proteins were observed, which point to (auto)regulatory mechanisms that prevent the activity of flower induction proteins in the flower.
!~RES~! Several studies with various plant species have revealed that MADS domain transcription factors form specific homodimers and heterodimers. In general, individual screens of cDNA expression libraries with the yeast two-hybrid GAL4 system have been used for this purpose. These assays are laborious, they result in the identification of a relatively high number of false positives, and they are often limited because of autoactivation of yeast reporters by the presence of an intrinsic activation domain in the bait protein. Therefore, in this study, a matrix-based yeast two-hybrid approach has been followed to identify specific dimerization among the members of the Arabidopsis MADS domain transcription factor family. The complete data set with all the scores is presented in Supplemental Table 1 online, and the interactions are summarized in a matrix in Figure 1 and in Supplemental Table 2 online. [[FIGURE]] Remarkably, the MIKC proteins that contain the K-box, a domain specific for type II plant MADS box proteins that is presumed to fold into an amphipathic α-helical structure (CITATION; CITATION), interact preferably with other type II proteins and hardly form dimers with the type I MADS box proteins. However, there are some exceptions. In particular, there is a preference for interactions with type I proteins from the Mα subclade. Among the type I proteins, most heterodimers are found between members of different subclades. Interactions among Mα proteins are rare, but they dimerize preferentially with many proteins of the Mβ and Mγ clades. Similarly, only a few interactions among members of the Mβ and Mγ clades were observed, and Mβ-Mγ heterodimers are rare. This suggests that the participation of a Mα protein is a prerequisite for a stable dimer consisting of only type I proteins. Although many interactions were observed, a relatively large number of MADS domain proteins appeared to have no interactions at all. Possibly these proteins interact only with non-MADS box proteins, or alternatively, particular interactions are not formed in a yeast two-hybrid assay. For example, the interaction between the B-type proteins APETALA3 (AP3) and PISTILLATA (PI) was not found in this screen. Previously, these proteins appeared to interact exclusively in a higher-order complex, with either SEPALLATA3 (SEP3) or AP1 (CITATION), suggesting that the additional factors stabilize the AP3-PI dimer. This requirement for stabilizing factors to maintain specific dimers could be more general. Homodimerization is another form of MADS domain transcription factor interaction that is difficult to detect by yeast two-hybrid analysis (CITATION), and hence, many homodimers have probably been missed in this screening. Subsequently, the proteins were clustered based on the obtained interaction patterns, which allows the identification of proteins with similar interactions and groups of proteins that are highly connected (Figure 2). This analysis gives clues about the involvement of proteins in certain developmental programs. It reveals groups of proteins with common known functions, but more informatively, also shows clusters containing uncharacterized proteins, for which a function can now be predicted, based on their presence in a particular interaction cluster. [[FIGURE]] To obtain more insight into the reliability of the data, a comparison was made between our interaction data and Arabidopsis MADS domain protein interactions described in the literature. In contrast with the wealth of genetic data, virtually nothing is known about molecular interactions among members of the Arabidopsis MADS box transcription factor family. In Supplemental Table 3 online, an overview of the published interactions is given. Of 16 previously reported interactions, nine were also found in our study. The majority of the remaining seven interactions were only identified between truncated forms of the proteins, which provides a possible explanation why we did not detect them in our study with full-length proteins. We also used information on interactions between orthologous MADS domain proteins from other species. MADS factors are key regulators of plant development, and many of their important roles as developmental selector genes are conserved among various plant species, although it has also been suggested that diversification of MADS activity after gene duplication may contribute to floral diversity (reviewed in CITATION). In line with the evolutionary conservation of MADS box transcription factor functions, the interaction patterns for specific MADS box proteins with identical functions, but from different species, have proven to be conserved (CITATION; CITATION). To validate the data presented here, the literature was screened for putative interologs of the various Arabidopsis MADS box protein combinations. This analysis could be performed for the type II proteins only because no interaction with type I proteins have yet been reported for any plant species. Figure 3 shows the subset of Arabidopsis MADS box protein–protein interactions for which at least one homologous interaction has been found. [[FIGURE]] An interaction between proteins observed in a yeast two-hybrid assay can only be biologically relevant when they are present in the same cell and at the same moment. Hence, coexpression of the corresponding genes can be used for the validation of protein interaction data, even though the correlation of RNA and protein levels varies for different genes (CITATION; CITATION). We used the developmental data set of the AtGenExpress project (CITATION) (see Methods) to investigate whether there is a correlation between gene expression and protein interaction. In general, genes with similar functions, such as the ABC homeotic genes and the SEP genes (CITATION) or the redundantly acting SHATTERPROOF1 (SHP1), SHP2, and SEEDSTICK (CITATION), genes clustered together (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). We asked more specifically how often genes are coexpressed in at least one sample using an absolute criterion for expression. This comparison revealed that almost 100% of the interacting proteins have an overlap in expression pattern of the corresponding genes, which is a prerequisite for a possible in planta interaction and relevance in Arabidopsis tissues (Figure 4). [[FIGURE]] We next asked whether the expression patterns of interacting pairs were on average more similar than those of noninteracting pairs. Although the average Pearson correlation of expression levels of interacting genes was only slightly higher than of noninteracting genes, the distribution of noninteracting and interacting genes was significantly different. Specifically, the interacting pairs included a larger group of genes with more similar expression patterns (see Supplemental Figure 2 online), although there was also an excess of genes with contrasting expression patterns. A prominent case in this latter group was SHORT VEGETATIVE PHASE (SVP), a floral repressor (CITATION) whose expression pattern is negatively correlated with those of SEP1, SEP3, and AP1, all of which play positive roles in flowering (CITATION). The regulation of flowering time is a complex process in which many environmental and internal signals are integrated, finally giving rise to a switch from vegetative to generative development at the appropriate time. MADS box transcription factors have shown to play pivotal roles in the flowering program and occupy many important positions in the hierarchical network (summarized and reviewed in CITATION; CITATION). Based on the interaction data obtained in this study, we tried to unravel two subnetworks composed of interactions between known MADS box proteins involved in flower induction and flower organ formation (Figure 5). The proteins AP1 and FRUITFULL (FUL) are present in both subnetworks, which would refer to their early and late function in flowering (CITATION; CITATION). However, the most striking observation is that many of the floral organ identity proteins, such as AGAMOUS (AG), SEP1/2/3, and SHP1/2 proteins, interact not only with positive regulators of flowering, such as SUPPRESSOR OF CONSTANS 1 (SOC1) and AGAMOUS-LIKE 24 (AGL24), but also with a negative regulator, SVP, implying that there is both positive and negative crosstalk between the two pathways via protein interactions, as pointed out above. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! A detailed description of the amplification of the open reading frames and subsequent cloning in yeast two-hybrid vectors is given in Supplemental Text 1 online. In summary, 102 open reading frames were cloned: 99 in the bait vector and 102 in the prey vector. The bait vectors were transformed into yeast strain PJ69-4a (MATa; CITATION) and all prey vectors into strain PJ69-4α (MATα; CITATION) and selected on SD plates lacking Leu and Trp, respectively. Subsequently, overnight cultures were grown (30°C, 300 rpm) from single colonies of each transformant in selective SD medium and systematically mated with each other by spotting 5-μL droplets of the liquid cultures on top of each other on SD complete plates (Nunc Omnitray; VWR International, Amsterdam, The Netherlands) containing all the essential amino acids. The spotting was performed in a systematic manner in a grid of 96 spots/plate by a pipetting robot (Genesis RSP150 workstation; Tecan, Maennedorf, Switzerland). In addition, some negative control combinations were spotted, for which water was used instead of either a bait or prey culture. Subsequently, the plates were incubated at 30°C for 16 h, and afterwards the yeast was transferred to SD plates lacking both Leu and Trp with disposable 96-pin replicators (Nunc-TSP; VWR International) to select for diploid yeast containing both plasmids. After 2 d of growth at 30°C, the yeast was transferred to two different selection plates containing SD medium lacking Leu, Trp, and Ade and SD lacking Leu, Trp, and His, supplemented with 5 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole. These plates were incubated at 20°C and scored for growth of yeast and hence protein–protein interaction events after 5 d. The screening was performed in duplicate, yielding in theory eight data points for each combination, four times with protein A as bait and B as prey (two scores from the Ade selection and two scores from the His selection) and four times reciprocally, with protein B as bait and A as prey. In case of autoactivation for one of the two proteins, just four data points were obtained for the specific combination. The mating efficiency appeared to be 100%, and where water was used for mating, either instead of a bait culture or instead of a prey culture, no growth was obtained on medium selecting for the presence of the two plasmids or on the media selecting for interactions (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). This shows that no cross-contamination occurred as a result of the procedure that followed. A combination was scored as a true interaction when it resulted in growth for at least one of the two selection markers in both screenings, but almost all positively scored combinations grew on both selection media. All protein–protein interaction data were transferred to Microsoft Excel sheets (Redmond, WA), and for easier data analyses, the interaction data was made reciprocal. One data matrix was made with all MADS box proteins, Matrix1, and one matrix with MADS box proteins that had at least one protein–protein interaction, Matrix2. Both matrixes were subjected to GeneMaths software (Applied Maths BVBA, Sint-Martens-Latem, Belgium) for further data analyses. Matrix1 was organized based on the phylogenetic distribution of all Arabidopsis thaliana MADS box proteins according to CITATION. Cluster analysis was performed on Matrix2 with Pearson correlation coefficient and UPGMA algorithm on both the rows and columns. In both cases, the data are represented in one direction (not reciprocal). The developmental set of the AtGenExpress expression atlas (ftp://ftp.arabidopsis.org/home/tair/Microarrays/Datasets/AtGenExpress/; http://weigelworld.org/resources/microarray/AtGenExpress) (CITATION) was analyzed for expression of MADS box genes. Expression estimates were obtained using gcRMA (http://bioconductor.org), a modification of the robust multiarray analysis algorithm (CITATION). A threshold of log2 ≥ 3 was applied to identify overlap in tissues with expression of genes. Approximately 75% of the Arabidopsis MADS family is represented on the Affymetrix GeneChip ATH1 (Santa Clara, CA).
