!~ABS~! We have previously identified a zinc metalloprotease involved in the degradation of mitochondrial and chloroplast targeting peptides, the presequence protease (PreP). In the Arabidopsis thaliana genomic database, there are two genes that correspond to the protease, the zinc metalloprotease (AAL90904) and the putative zinc metalloprotease (AAG13049). We have named the corresponding proteins AtPreP1 and AtPreP2, respectively. AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 show significant differences in their targeting peptides and the proteins are predicted to be localized in different compartments. AtPreP1 was shown to degrade both mitochondrial and chloroplast targeting peptides and to be dual targeted to both organelles using an ambiguous targeting peptide. Here, we have overexpressed, purified and characterized proteolytic and targeting properties of AtPreP2. AtPreP2 exhibits different proteolytic subsite specificity from AtPreP1 when used for degradation of organellar targeting peptides and their mutants. Interestingly, AtPreP2 precursor protein was also found to be dual targeted to both mitochondria and chloroplasts in a single and dual in vitro import system. Furthermore, targeting peptide of the AtPreP2 dually targeted green fluorescent protein (GFP) to both mitochondria and chloroplasts in tobacco protoplasts and leaves using an in vivo transient expression system. The targeting of both AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 proteases to chloroplasts in A. thaliana in vivo was confirmed via a shotgun mass spectrometric analysis of highly purified chloroplasts. Reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction (RT–PCR) analysis revealed that AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 are differentially expressed in mature A. thaliana plants. Phylogenetic evidence indicated that AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 are recent gene duplicates that may have diverged through subfunctionalization.
!~RES~! The AtPreP2 cDNA encodes a protein of 1080 amino acids (AAG13049). Single organelle intracellular prediction programs, MitoProt (http://mips.gsf.de/cgi-bin/proj/medgen/mitofilter) and ChloroP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP/), predicted that the targeting peptide of AtPreP2 is 85 amino acid residues long and the mature protein 995 residues long. The mature portion of AtPreP2 was cloned as a fusion protein with glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and the fusion protein (GST–PreP2) was overexpressed in Escherichia coli (Fig. 1a). The fusion protein was purified on a GSTrap FF column, and the AtPreP2 was eluted after cleavage of the fusion protein with PreScission protease (Fig. 1a, lane 3). The recombinant AtPreP2 protein (99% purity) had an estimated molecular mass of 110 kDa. The proteolytic action of the recombinant AtPreP2 was tested against a mitochondrial targeting peptide derived from the ATP synthase F1β subunit from Nicotianaplumbaginifolia, N5.7pF1β(2–54), and a chloroplastic targeting peptide derived from the small subunit of biphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) from Nicotiana tabacum, SStpNt. Incubation of both targeting peptides with AtPreP2 resulted in complete degradation of the targeting peptides (Fig. 1b, lanes 2 and 5). Addition of o-phenanthroline, a specific inhibitor of the metalloprotease, completely abolished the proteolytic activity of AtPreP2 (Fig. 1b, lanes 3 and 6). These results show that AtPreP2 has a dual proteolytic function against both mitochondrial and chloroplastic targeting peptides. The cleavage specificity of AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 was studied by investigating cleavage of a specific fluorescent peptide P1, the mitochondrial presequence peptide N5.7pF1β(2–54) (Ståhl et al. 2002, Moberg et al. 2003) and the chloroplastic transit peptide of N.tabaccum small subunit of Rubisco, SStpNt (Fig. 2). Incubation periods were shortened in comparison with those used in Fig. 1 in order to detect formation of degradation intermediates. After incubation of the peptides for 30 min at 30°C, an intermediate product was produced by AtPreP2 with both the P1 and N5.7pF1β(2–54) peptide (Fig. 2a, lane 2; and b, lane 2), while no such intermediate product was seen when these two peptides were incubated with AtPreP1 (Fig. 2a, lane 3; and b, lane 3). The intermediate could not be detected upon degradation with AtPreP1 even when much shorter incubation times and different concentrations of AtPreP1 were used (not shown). Accumulation of intermediate products of the peptides after incubation with AtPreP2 shows that AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 have different cleavage specificity. Degradation by AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 has also been investigated with the chloroplastic transit peptide SStpNt and its mutants (Fig. 3). Mutants were designed to study the effect of changed flexibility of the transit peptide on import and processing. Alternative processing has been detected with these mutants (S. J. Wright and B. D. Bruce, unpublished). AtPreP2 had the capacity to degrade both SStpNt and all the mutants, whereas AtPreP1 could not degrade the SStpNtP36A mutant with decreased flexibility as proline has been changed to alanine (Fig. 3b). These results additionally confirm the different cleavage specificity of AtPreP1 and AtPreP2. Most sequence differences between AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 were found in their targeting peptides. Whereas AtPreP1 was predicted to be a mitochondrial protein by both TargetP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) and Predotar (http://www.inra.fr/predotar/), programs designed to predict intracellular organellar targeting ability, AtPreP2 was suggested to be a chloroplastic protein. In order to study the subcellular localization of AtPreP2, in vitro import of the AtPreP2 precursor was studied into isolated chloroplasts and mitochondria. Incubation of the AtPreP2 precursor protein with isolated chloroplasts resulted in import and processing of the precursor form of the protein to the mature sized product (Fig. 4a, lane 2). The mature form was resistant to thermolysin treatment, evidence that AtPreP2 was fully translocated and processed in the chloroplasts (Fig. 4a, lane 3). The additional protein band below AtPreP2 (in the precursor lane) is clearly different from that of the mature sized protein produced after import and processing, and is not imported nor bound to mitochondria or chloroplasts as it disappears after pre-incubation and washing of organelles. Incubation of the AtPreP2 precursor protein with isolated mitochondria also resulted in import and processing of the precursor to the mature size product (Fig. 4b, lane 2). The imported precursor and mature form of the AtPreP2 protein were resistant to proteinase K (PK) treatment, showing import of AtPreP2 into mitochondria (Fig. 4b, lane 3). Furthermore, import of the AtPreP2 precursor into mitochondria was dependent on membrane potential, as neither the PK-resistant form of the precursor nor the mature protein was detected in the presence of an ionophore, valinomycin (Fig. 4b, lanes 4 and 5). These results indicate that AtPreP2 might be a dually targeted protein to both chloroplasts and mitochondria. Import of the AtPreP2 precursor was also tested using the dual in vitro import system in which the precursor is simultaneously incubated with both isolated organelles (Rudhe et al. 2002). Under these conditions AtPreP2 was imported and processed in both mitochondria and chloroplasts (Fig. 4c, lanes 2 and 4). The mature form of AtPreP2 generated after processing of the precursor was resistant in both organelles to externally added thermolysin, showing dual import of AtPreP2 (Fig. 4c, lanes 3 and 5) and additionally supporting dual localization of AtPreP2. Dual import of the AtPreP2 into mitochondria and chloroplasts was investigated further in vivo using GFP fusion and transient expression in tobacco protoplasts and leaves. The targeting peptide and 70 amino acid residues from the mature part of the AtPreP2 protein were fused to GFP (Fig. 5B) under the strong plant transcription promoter EN50PMA4 (Zhao et al. 1999). Seventy amino acids from the mature part of the AtPreP2 were fused in order to preserve the native processing site. A known mitochondrial targeting peptide of the ATP synthase F1β-subunit from N. plumbaginifolia fused to GFP (F1β–GFP) was used as a control for mitochondrial targeting (Duby et al. 2001). Transient expression of the AtPreP2–GFP fusion protein was performed in tobacco protoplasts and targeting was analyzed by confocal microscopy. Protoplasts transformed with the F1β–GFP construct targeted GFP to small, punctuated shape structures (Fig. 5C, a). These small punctuated structures were also labeled by the red fluorescence of Mitotracker (Fig. 5C, b). Co-localization of GFP with Mitotracker is shown in the yellow merged image in Fig. 5C, c. GFP alone was found to be present all over in the cytosol (Fig. 5C, f–j). When protoplasts were transformed with the AtPreP2–GFP construct, fluorescence was found to be localized in two different locations, the punctuated structures and large, round structures (Fig. 5C, k). Fluorescence in the punctuated structures co-localized with Mitotracker (Fig. 4C, l and m), while fluorescence in the large, round structures co-localized with chloroplast autofluorescence (Fig. 5C, n and o). These results showed that the targeting peptide of AtPreP2 can target GFP to both mitochondria and chloroplasts in vivo and support the dual localization of AtPreP2. We have shown earlier that the PreP is present in both mitochondria and chloroplasts in different plant species using antibodies raised against an 18 amino acid residue peptide in the C-terminal portion of the enzyme (Moberg et al. 2003). However, these antibodies do not distinguish between AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 as the antigenic peptide is identical in both enzymes. We also tested cross-reactivity of the AtPreP1 antibodies raised against the full-length AtPreP1 and found that these antibodies also recognized both AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 (data not shown). A random, ‘bottom-up’ analysis of isolated intact A. thaliana chloroplasts was carried out in order to identify the proteases. One peptide corresponding to AtPreP1 was repeatedly found with the highest score; however, several other unique peptides with lower confidence scores were also identified for both the AtPreP1 and AtPreP proteins (Table 1). These results suggest that under these growth conditions, both AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 are present in the Arabidopsis chloroplasts isolated under the highly stringent conditions. Unfortunately, this methodology cannot be used to give quantitative information, although abundant proteins, such as Rubisco, certainly provide more abundant trypsin-derived peptides (data not shown). Expression of the AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 transcripts was studied in 3-week-old seedlings and in different organs in mature A. thaliana plants by a semi-quantitative RT–PCR method. PCR conditions were carefully optimized for the quantitative measurements of the transcripts level. Both the AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 transcripts were detected in the 3-week-old seedlings employing 30 cycles of PCR (Fig. 6a). For the quantitative measurements of the AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 transcripts, it was found that 125 ng of total RNA with 25 cycles of PCR yielded quantitative measurements of the transcripts. Constitutively expressed actin was used as an internal control (Fig. 6b, lower panel). The AtPreP1 transcript was detected only in silique and flower although the transcript level was much higher in the inflorescence (Fig. 6b, middle panel). In contrast to AtPreP1, the AtPreP2 transcript was detected in leaf, flower and root with no transcript detected in silique and shoot (Fig. 6b, upper panel). These results suggest that AtPreP1and AtPreP2 are expressed in a differential, organ-specific manner. A gene family consisting of close and long distance homologs of AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 was built by combining information from three sources. The gene families from The Adaptive Evolution Database (TAED) (Roth et al. 2005) were supplemented with longer distance BLAST hits from GenBank and near-full length homologs that could be manually assembled from a BLAST search against the NCBI expressed sequence tag (EST) collection. The sequences in this gene family were used to calculate a multiple sequence alignment using POA (Lee et al. 2002) and to build a phylogenetic tree using MRBAYES (Huelsenbeck and Ronquist 2001) (Fig. 7). This tree shows AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 to be close relatives and suggests the importance of searching for close homologs of these proteins in other Brassicaceae species.
!~MM~! Full-length cDNA of AtPreP2 (RAFL09993-D24) was originally obtained from RIKEN Genomic Sciences, Japan (Seki et al. 2002). The region of the AtPreP2 precursor encoding the mature portion of the protein was amplified using Pfu DNA polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) and the primers 5′prep2m (5′-cccgggGTCGCTACACAATCCGCACC-3′) and 3′prep2 (5′-gcggccgcGAGAGCTGCTTTCTTCACCTCGAAAA-3′). The PCR product was cloned into a zero-blunt vector (Invitrogen, Stockholm, Sweden). The insert was cleaved with NotI and XhoI and subcloned into a pGEX-6P-2 vector downstream of GST (Amersham Biosciences). In-frame cloning of the mature PreP2 was verified by DNA sequencing using a DYEnamic sequencing kit (Amersham Biosciences, Uppsala, Stockholm, Sweden). The E. coli overexpression strain, BL21 (DE3), was transformed with the pGEX-6P-2 vector containing the mature portion of AtPreP2 fused to GST and grown at 30°C in LB-medium. After 4 h, 1 mM isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) was added to the culture and the incubation was continued for another 6 h. Cells were resuspended in PBS buffer (140 mM NaCl, 2.7 mM KCl, 10 mM Na2HPO4, 1.8 mM KH2PO4, pH 7.3) and lysed by addition of 0.5 mg ml–1 lysozyme and 10 µg ml–1 DNase I followed by sonication for 3×30 s. The lysate was centrifuged for 20 min at 15,000×g and filtered through a 0.2 µm membrane. The supernatant was loaded onto a GSTrap™ FF 1 ml column (Amersham Biosciences) equilibrated with PBS buffer. AtPreP2 was eluted after on-column cleavage with PreScission™ Protease according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Amersham Biosciences). The eluted AtPreP2 was applied to a Superdex™ 200 h 10/30 column (Amersham Biosciences) equilibrated with 20 mM HEPES-KOH, 10 mM MgCl2 (pH 8.0). The protein content of eluted fractions from GSTrap FF and Superdex 200 HR10/30 was analyzed by 12% SDS–PAGE in the presence of 4 M urea (Laemmli 1970) and stained with silver. The proteolytic activity of the recombinant mature AtPreP2 was investigated against the mitochondrial presequence derived from the F1β-subunit of the N. plumbaginifolia ATP synthase, N5.7pF1β(2–54)-hsl (Ståhl et al. 2002), and a chloroplastic transit peptide derived from the small subunit of Rubisco from N.tabacum, SStpNt (Moberg et al. 2003). The proteolytic reaction contained 1.0 µg of the recombinant mature AtPreP2 and 1 µg of either N5.7pF1β(2–54)-hsl or SStpNt in the reaction buffer containing 20 mM HEPES-KOH (pH 8.0) and 10 mM MnCl2. Degradation was performed for 50 min at 30°C and the reaction was stopped by the addition of Laemmli sample buffer. o-Phenanthroline (10 mM) was added and pre-incubated with the reaction mixture for inhibition studies. For the detection of N5.7pF1β(2–54)-hsl, samples were analyzed on 10–20% Tris-tricine gels (Bio-Rad, Sundyberg, Sweden) and stained with Coomassie brilliant blue. For the detection of SStpNt, samples were subjected to 12–20% SDS–PAGE in the presence of 4 M urea and immunological cross-reactivity was analyzed by Western blotting with an antibody raised against SStpNt followed by detection with horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated secondary antibodies. Point mutations in wild-type SStpNt were generated by Quick change site-directed mutagenesis (Stratagene), and overexpression and purification of mutants were carried out as described earlier by Moberg et al. (2003). For the detection of SStpNt and its mutant in Fig. 3, samples were analyzed on 10–20% Tris-tricine gels (Bio-Rad) and stained with Coomassie brilliant blue. In order to identify intermediate proteolytic fragments of the F1β presequences generated by AtPreP1 and AtPreP2, 2 µg of the N5.7pF1β(2–54)-hs1 peptide was incubated with 0.3 µg of the respective protease in degradation buffer for 30 min at 30°C. Recombinant AtPreP1 was purified as described earlier by Moberg et al. (2003). The samples were analysed as described before. We also investigated cleavage of a fluorescent peptide, P1 (Ståhl et al. 2002). The degradation assay contained 0.3 µg of AtPreP1 or AtPreP2 and 20 µM of P1 (Pep Tag Protease assay) in degradation buffer. Degradation was carried out at 30°C for 1 h before 80% glycerol was added. The samples were analyzed directly on a 1% agarose gel, and the fluorescent peptides were visualized by UV light. The putative AtPreP2 precursor protein was synthesized in a coupled transcription/translation reticulocyte system (Promega, SDS Biosciences, Falkenberg, Sweden) in the presence of [35S]methionine. Potato mitochondria were isolated and import experiments were performed as described by Von Stedingk et al. (1997). For the import reactions, the AtPreP2 precursor was incubated with isolated mitochondria for 20 min at 25°C. Chloroplasts were isolated from spinach leaves and import experiments were performed according to Bruce et al. (1994). For the import reactions, the AtPreP2 precursor was incubated for 25 min at 25°C. Dual import was carried out with isolated spinach mitochondria and chloroplasts as described by Rudhe et al. (2002). The in vivo targeting properties of the targeting peptide of AtPreP2 were investigated using GFP as a reporter gene. One hundred and fifty-five N-terminal amino acids of AtPreP2 were fused in-frame to GFP in the AtPreP2–GFP fusion construct using the primers 5′prep2 (5′-agatctGCCGGAGAAAATATTCCG-3′) and 3′prep2gfp (5′-ggtaccATCCTTCGGAGGAGTCCTG-3′). The PCR product was directly cloned into a TOPO zero-blunt vector (Invitrogen) and digested with BglII and KpnI. The digested fragment was gel extracted and cloned into the pTZ19U-derived vector between the EN50PMA4 promoter and GFP (Duby et al. 2001). The expression cassette was transferred into a pBI101-derived vector (Clontech, CA, USA) for Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression. All constructs were verified by sequencing. Protoplasts were prepared from leaves of N.tabacum cv. SR1 (Maliga et al. 1973) and transformed by electroporation as described by Lukaszewicz et al. (1998). Protoplasts were incubated in culture medium with 400 nM Mitotracker Red CM-H2Xros (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA) for 40 min and washed three times before confocal analysis. Confocal microscopy was performed with a Bio-Rad MRC-1024 laser-scanning confocal imaging system. For the detection of GFP, excitation was at 488 nm and detection was between 506 and 538 nm. Mitotracker staining was detected between 589 and 621 nm with excitation at 568 nm. Chloroplast autofluorescence was detected between 664 and 696 nm with excitation at 488 nm. Arabidopsis thaliana was grown on 0.8% agar in Magenta boxes at 18°C and 170 µE fluorescent with incandescent lights. Plants were harvested before flowering at 21–22 d by cutting the green leaf tissue with scissors above the level of the agar, thus avoiding the roots. Chloroplasts were isolated using a method adapted from Aronsson and Jarvis (2002). In brief, the plants were chopped with a razor blade in an ice-cold dish containing grinding buffer (GB; 50 mM HEPES, 330 mM sorbitol, 1 mM MgCl2, 1 mM MnCl2, 2 mM EDTA, pH 7.3). The chopped plants were treated with a Polytron using a 13 mm rotor for 2–3 s. The brie was filtered through a layer of Miracloth (Calbiochem, CA, USA) supported by two layers of cheesecloth. The brie was returned to the Polytron with fresh GB and the process repeated a total of five times. The combined filtrates were centrifuged at 250×g for 6 min. The supernatant was removed and the pellets resuspended in import buffer (IB; 50 mM HEPES, 330 mM sorbitol, pH 8.0) using a soft natural bristle paint brush. The suspended chloroplasts were layered on top of a 50% Percoll gradient and centrifuged at 3,500×g for 15 min. The lower intact chloroplast band was collected, diluted 3-fold with IB, and centrifuged at 250×g for 6 min. The pellets were resuspended in fresh IB and layered on top of a second 50% Percoll gradient. The bottom layer was isolated as before and made up to a final chlorophyll concentration of approximately 1 mg ml–1 in IB, and stored at –80°C. Frozen chloroplast pellets were resuspended in ice-cold 90% acetone and returned to –20°C for 1 h. The precipitated protein was collected by centrifugation at 20,000×g, dissolved in 6 M guanidine and incubated at 60°C for 1 h. The solution was diluted to 1.0 M guanidine-HCl with 50 mM Tris, 1 mM CaCl2 and sequencing grade, modified trypsin (Promega) was added at a level of 1 : 50 trypsin : protein. The sample was rotated at 37°C overnight. The following day, a second aliquot of trypsin was added and digestion continued for another 4 h at 37°C. The digest was reduced by addition of 10 mM dithiothreitol (DTT) and heated at 60°C for 1 h. This trypsin digest was then clarified by centrifugation at 20,000×g to remove insoluble protein. The peptides were desalted with a C18 Sep-Pak (Waters, Milford, MA, USA), eluted with acetonitrile, and concentrated in a SpeedVac to a final volume of 100–200 µl. The purified protein digest was subjected to either one- or two-dimensional capillary/nano HPLC ESI-MS/MS equipped with an electrospray source LCQ™Deca XP (Thermo Finnigan, NJ, USA). In the one-dimensional analysis, the experiments were performed on an Ultimate HPLC (LC Packings, CA, USA) using a 150 µm i.d.×15 cm, 300 Å 5 µm C18 packing (VYDAC, Southboro, MA, USA) for separation using a linear gradient from 100% solvent A [water : acetonitrile : formic acid, 95 : 5 : 0.5 by vol.)] to 100% solvent B [water : acetonitrile : acetic acid, 30 : 70 : 0.5). The eluate was analyzed by a LCQ Deca XP mass spectrometer with dynamic exclusion and data-dependent MS/MS enabled. Typically, multiple injections were made with scanning over narrow mass ranges to increase peptide detection. In the two-dimensional analysis, the purified protein digest was injected onto a strong cation exchange column. Fractions were eluted from the SCX column using NH4OAc to a C18 trap. The trap was then backflushed to a 150 µm i.d×75 mm. C18 column (VYDAC) where the reverse phase separation was conducted with a linear gradient from 100% A to 100% B. The eluate was analysed by electrospray MS/MS with dynamic exclusion and data-dependent MS/MS. The MS/MS spectra were analyzed using the commercial algorithm, Mascot (Matrix Science, UK) using the most up to date A. thaliana database (release date: January 22, 2004 from TIGR, Rockville, MD, USA). Total cellular RNA was extracted from 100 mg of 3-week-old seedlings and leaves, shoots, roots, flowers and siliques of mature A. thaliana plants using plant RNA extraction reagent (Invitrogen) and was treated with RNase-free DNase (Amersham) using an RNAeasy column (Qiagen, West Sussex, UK). Cross-reactivity of the AtPreP1-specific and AtPreP2-specific primers was tested using AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 cDNAs. No PCR product was detected when AtPreP1-specific primers were applied on the cDNA of AtPreP2, and AtPreP2-specific primers were applied on the cDNA of AtPreP1, indicating the specificity of the PCR primers. The number of cycles for quantitative RT–PCR was carefully optimized with actin-specific primers as an internal control using 15, 20 and 25 cycles. Primers were designed from the exon–exon boundary encompassing an intron in order to discriminate genomic contamination. RT–PCR, including reverse transcriptase and 25 cycles, was carried out using the Titan One Tube RT–PCR System (Roche) on 125 ng of total RNA. The primer set used for AtPreP1 was 5′rtprep1, 5′-AGATCTCAGTAGCAGTCTCCGCCG-3′ and 3′rtprep1, 5′-GTGGAATCCTTCGGAGGAGTT-3′; for AtPreP2 it was 5′rtprep2, 5′-AGATCTGCCGGAGAAAATATTCCG-3′ and 3′rtprep2, 5′-TGGAATCCTTCGGAGGAGTC-3′; and for actin it was 5′rtactin, 5′-GGAACTGGAATGGTGAAGGCT-3′ and 3′rtactin, 5′-CAGAATCGAGCACAATACCGG-3′. No PCR product was detected when reverse transcriptase was eliminated from the reaction. The RT–PCR products were analyzed by 2% agarose gel electrophoresis in the presence of ethidium bromide. AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 were BLASTed against embryophyte gene families from the TAED database (Liberles et al. 2001, Roth et al. 2005) and against protein sequences in GenBank. The EST collection in GenBank was then subjected to BLAST searching and 164 unique ESTs from 42 species were identified. These ESTs were manually combined into species-specific ESTs where no ambiguity existed, a multiple sequence alignment calculated using POA (Lee et al. 2002) and a phylogenetic tree calculated using Mr. Bayes (Huelsenbeck and Ronquist 2001) (Fig. 7). From this tree, AtPreP1 and AtPreP2 clustered in a Brassicaceae-specific group.
