!~ABS~! In the absence of cell migration, plant architecture is largely determined by the direction and extent of cell expansion during development. In this report, we show that very-long-chain fatty acid (VLCFA) synthesis plays an essential role in cell expansion. The Arabidopsis thaliana eceriferum10 (cer10) mutants exhibit severe morphological abnormalities and reduced size of aerial organs. These mutants are disrupted in the At3g55360 gene, previously identified as a gene coding for enoyl-CoA reductase (ECR), an enzyme required for VLCFA synthesis. The absence of ECR activity results in a reduction of cuticular wax load and affects VLCFA composition of seed triacylglycerols and sphingolipids, demonstrating in planta that ECR is involved in all VLCFA elongation reactions in Arabidopsis. Epidermal and seed-specific silencing of ECR activity resulted in a reduction of cuticular wax load and the VLCFA content of seed triacylglycerols, respectively, with no effects on plant morphogenesis, suggesting that the developmental phenotypes arise from abnormal sphingolipid composition. Cellular analysis revealed aberrant endocytic membrane traffic and defective cell expansion underlying the morphological defects of cer10 mutants.
!~RES~! We initiated a reverse-genetics approach in Arabidopsis to address the in planta function of the ECR. Two Salk lines, Salk_088645 (Figure 1A) and Salk_138092, obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center were found to carry T-DNA insertions in the second intron of the ECR gene. The Salk_088645 line also had a small 22-bp deletion and an 18-bp duplication of genomic DNA flanking the T-DNA insertion site (Figure 1B). No visible developmental phenotypes were observed in homozygous Salk_138092 plants. By contrast, homozygous Salk_088645 plants exhibited abnormal organ morphology (described in the following section) and stem glossiness. These phenotypes cosegregated with the T-DNA insertion as a single Mendelian recessive locus (n = 150), suggesting that a single T-DNA insertion in the ECR gene is genetically linked to the observed phenotypes. [[FIGURE]] Changes in shoot morphology and the stem glossiness of the Salk_088645 homozygous mutant resembled that of the eceriferum10 (cer10) mutant (CITATION). Furthermore, the cer10 mutant was mapped to chromosome 3, 5.7 centimorgans north of BGL1 (CITATION), close to the ECR gene. A complementation test performed between the cer10 and the Salk_088645 mutant (data not shown) demonstrated that cer10 is allelic to the Salk_088645. We therefore refer to the original cer10 mutant allele as cer10-1 and designate the T-DNA insertional allele Salk_088645 as cer10-2. The cer10-1 mutant was obtained from an x-ray–mutagenized population (CITATION). PCR amplifications in the ECR gene region indicated that a deletion and/or rearrangement greater than 5 kb is present in cer10-1, which spans the promoter region, the 5′-untranslated region, and at least 90 bp downstream of the translation start of the ECR gene (Figure 1A). RNA gel blot analysis was used to assess steady state levels of ECR gene transcript in the cer10-1, cer10-2, and Salk_138092 lines. Total RNA was isolated from flower buds of each mutant and hybridized with a radiolabeled full-length ECR cDNA. A single band of ∼1.2 kb was present in wild-type Columbia-0 (Col-0), Salk_138092, and wild-type Landsberg erecta (Ler) (Figure 1C, lanes 1, 2, and 4), but no band was detected in either cer10-1 or cer10-2 (Figure 1C, lanes 3 and 5), indicating that both mutants are transcriptional knockouts. The abundance of ECR transcript in Salk_138092 was comparable to that in wild-type Col-0, suggesting that the T-DNA insertion in this line does not affect the ECR transcription, consistent with the observation that the plant developed normally. We therefore used cer10-1 and/or cer10-2 mutants for subsequent analysis. The cer10 mutant was originally isolated because of its glossy stem phenotype indicative of decreased cuticular wax accumulation (CITATION). In addition to the wax phenotype, we found that both cer10-1 and cer10-2 exhibited abnormal morphogenesis of all the shoot organs. The earliest phenotypic change observed in the cer10 mutant was downward pointing cotyledons in 3- to 4-d-old seedlings (Figure 2B). Twelve-day-old cer10 seedlings developed true leaves, but the leaves were crinkled and smaller than those of the wild type (cf. Figures 2C and 2D). Despite their small stature and morphological abnormalities, the cer10 plants continued to grow and generated inflorescences, floral organs, and a normal number of leaves without an apparent time delay in comparison with the wild type as shown for 22-d-old plants in Figure 2E. Fully expanded leaves in cer10 were approximately one-third the size of wild-type leaves and they curled along the long axis (cf. Figures 2F and 2G). Inflorescences of the mutant were considerably shorter than those of wild-type plants and had a slender, zigzag appearance (Figure 2H). Flower buds of cer10 were also smaller and fused together (cf. Figures 2I and 2J). Mutants exhibiting floral organ fusions like the cer10 mutant have been reported as having reduced fertility, depending on the severity of the fusion event. The cer10 line was described as male semisterile but female fertile (CITATION). Unlike cer1 and cer6 wax-deficient mutants where problems with pollen hydration cause conditional male sterility (CITATION; CITATION), high humidity did not restore fertility in the cer10 mutants. Examination of stamens revealed that cer10 stamen filaments were short and crooked and unable to position anthers at the height of the stigma (cf. Figures 2K and 2L). In addition, most cer10 pollen grains were shriveled, and Alexander's staining (CITATION) showed that they were inviable (cf. Figures 2M and 2N). [[FIGURE]] To exclude the possibility that mutations in other genes contribute to defective organ morphogenesis in the cer10 lines, the wild-type ECR cDNA was cloned, fused with green fluorescent protein (GFP) at its 5′ end, and expressed in cer10-1 mutant plants under the control of the 35S promoter. Ten out of 12 independent transgenic lines recovered had wild-type appearance, indicating that all the morphological abnormalities in leaves, stems, and flowers described above were completely restored (Figure 3C). These results demonstrated that the mutation in the ECR gene is indeed responsible for the observed morphological defects. [[FIGURE]] Expression of the fully functional GFP-ECR fusion protein in transgenic cer10 plants allowed us to investigate the subcellular localization of the ECR in Arabidopsis. In all 10 transgenic lines with different levels of GFP-ECR expression, the GFP fluorescence labeled a reticulate network typical of the ER in all examined organs, as illustrated in leaves (Figure 3D). The reticulate network labeled by GFP-ECR was also marked by hexyl rhodamine B (Figures 3E to 3G), a dye that stains the ER in plants (CITATION). Furthermore, in some cells, the fusiform bodies, specific ER subdomains (CITATION), were also outlined by the fluorescence of GFP-ECR (Figure 3E, arrows), confirming that GFP-ECR is localized to the ER membrane. Unlike yeast ECR, which is enriched at the nuclear envelope–vacuole junction (CITATION), the Arabidopsis ECR is not, as indicated by the similar fluorescence intensity of the GFP-ECR between nuclear envelopes and the cortical ER network (Figure 3D and inset). This uniform distribution of ECR on the ER membrane was also verified by transiently expressing GFP-ECR under the native CER10 promoter in Arabidopsis leaves (data not shown). Expression of the Arabidopsis GFP-ECR fusion protein in the yeast tsc13-1elo2Δ mutant under the control of the ALCOHOL DEHYDROGENASE (ADH) promoter rescued its temperature-sensitive lethality, indicating that the fusion protein is also functional in the yeast elongase (Figure 3H). As found with the native yeast ECR Tsc13p, the plant GFP-ECR was enriched in a specific ER domain reminiscent of the nuclear–vacuole junction (Figure 3I). These results suggest a different localization of the ECR in Arabidopsis and yeast. Most if not all organs of cer10 mutants were shrunken and smaller than normal. We reasoned that such organ abnormalities might be a result of a common cellular defect(s) in cell division and/or cell expansion. To explore this, we investigated the number, size, and morphology of leaf epidermal cells in the mutant. Expanded leaves from wild-type plants and cer10 mutants were stained with FM4-64, a lipophilic styryl fluorescent dye known to intercalate the plasma membrane so that the cell shapes can be easily outlined and examined in vivo by confocal microscopy (CITATION). It was immediately apparent that cer10 cells were considerably smaller than wild-type cells, and they had less pronounced lobe structures than those found in the wild-type leaf epidermis (cf. Figures 4E and 4F). In an area of 100 × 100 μm, fully expanded cer10 leaf epidermis had 13 to 15 cells (Figure 4F) compared with only four to six cells found in the epidermis of the wild-type leaves (Figure 4E). Thus, the cer10 leaf cells are approximately three times smaller than those in wild-type plants, consistent with the leaf size reduction of cer10 (Figure 2G). A similar reduction in the length of the stem and of the stem epidermal cells in the cer10 mutant was also found (data not shown). These well-correlated reductions in cell size and organ size illustrated that organ abnormalities seen in the cer10 mutants have likely arisen from aberrant cell expansion. A detailed examination of epidermal pavement cell development demonstrated that initiation of new cells was not compromised in the cer10 leaf epidermis (cf. Figures 4A and 4B), but the direction and extent of cell expansion in both the early stages (stages I and II) and the late stage (after stage II) of leaf development (CITATION) were affected (cf. Figures 4C and 4D). [[FIGURE]] This conclusion was further substantiated by examination of leaf trichomes. Wild-type trichomes normally consist of a long stalk (∼150 μm long) and several branches (∼150 μm) (Figure 4G). We noted that in the cer10 mutants, although the basic body plan of trichomes was established, they appeared to have short, crooked, and abnormally swollen stalks and branches (Figure 4H), indicating that the cell expansion required for generation of normal trichome stalk and branches is impaired in the cer10 mutant. ECR is an enzyme that catalyzes the last step of VLCFA elongation, reduction of the enoyl-CoA, in eukaryotic cells. To investigate the biochemical basis for the observed morphological phenotype as well as to confirm in planta the suggested role of the Arabidopsis ECR in VLCFA elongation (CITATION), we evaluated the VLCFA content of complex lipids known to contain these acyl groups or require them for their synthesis. VLCFAs are precursors of all the aliphatic components of cuticular wax. In both cer10-1 and cer10-2, a reduction of ∼60% in total stem cuticular wax, with a similar reduction in each major wax component, was detected (Table 1). The VLCFA level measured in seed TAGs was also lower (∼30% reduction) in both cer10 lines in comparison with the wild type (Table 2), indicating that mutations in ECR affected VLCFA production for TAG assembly. In yeast, a mutation in the TSC13 gene resulted in shorter acyl chain lengths in sphingolipids, and it was proposed to be the major cause of growth defects of tsc13-1elo2Δ cells (CITATION). Cuticular Wax Loads on Stems of Wild-Type, cer10, and ProCER6:ECRia Plants (μg/g Dry Weight) Altered Fatty Acid Composition of Seed Storage Lipids in cer10 and ProFAE1:ECRia Plants (mol %) To determine if the cer10 mutation affected VLCFA composition of sphingolipids, we first examined the VLCFA content of glucosylceramides (GlcCers), an abundant subclass of sphingolipids that are important constituents of the plasma membrane and tonoplast in plants (CITATION). Similar to sphingolipids in rye (Secale cereale) leaves (CITATION) and maize (Zea mays) roots (CITATION), we found that hydroxylated fatty acids are the predominant fatty acids in GlcCers isolated from Arabidopsis shoots. In wild-type (Ler) plants, hydroxylated C16:0 and C24:0 accounted for ∼53 and ∼28% of GlcCer fatty acids, respectively (Table 3). In the cer10-1 mutant, the hydroxylated C16:0 fatty acid content was increased to 64% at the expense of hydroxylated VLCFAs (Table 3, note the C24:0-OH reduction to ∼21% in the mutant). Altered Fatty Acyl Chain Length of GlcCers in the cer10 Plants (mol %) In plants, in addition to GlcCers, inositol phosphorylceramides are thought to be another major subclass of complex sphingolipids (CITATION). Analyses of long-chain bases in GlcCers isolated from 8-week-old Arabidopsis (CITATION) and in total tissues of 19-d-old Arabidopsis (CITATION) suggested that other complex sphingolipids, such as inositol phosphorylceramides, might be relatively more abundant than GlcCers (CITATION). However, the actual molecular species composition of Arabidopsis sphingolipids has not been established for any tissue or isolated membrane domain because, at present, methods for purification of complex sphingolipids, other than GlcCers, are not available. In an attempt to assess if the cer10 mutation affected the VLCFA composition of other complex sphingolipids besides the GlcCers, we examined the profile of hydroxylated fatty acyl chains in total lipids extracted from shoot tissues because only sphingolipids have been reported to contain hydroxylated fatty acids (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As indicated in Table 4, the profile of major hydroxylated fatty acids was different from that found in GlcCers (Table 3). Thus, hydroxylated fatty acids released from complex sphingolipids other than GlcCers were included. Similar to GlcCers, hydroxylated long fatty acid (C16:0) content in total shoot lipids was increased at the expense of VLCFAs (Table 4). These data suggest that VLCFA composition of complex sphingolipids besides GlcCers was also affected in the cer10 mutant. Furthermore, we found no significant difference in absolute levels of major hydroxylated fatty acids between wild-type and cer10 plants (Table 4). Even though the determination of absolute levels of sphingolipids by measuring hydroxylated fatty acids is not as accurate as long-chain base analyses (CITATION) because all acyl chains in sphingolipids may not be hydroxylated, our results suggest that total sphingolipid content of the mutant was similar to the wild type. Altered Profile (mol %) but Not Quantity (μg/g Fresh Shoot Tissues) of Major Hydroxylated Fatty Acyl Chains Released from Complex Sphingolipids in cer10 Plants Collectively, these results confirmed that the ECR gene product is involved in the synthesis on all VLCFAs in Arabidopsis, required for cuticular wax, storage lipid, and sphingolipid metabolism. However, defects in cuticular wax biosynthesis or seed storage lipid VLCFA accumulation do not typically affect organ morphogenesis during plant development. For example, the most dramatic reduction in cuticular wax load was observed in CER6-silenced plants that contained <7% of wild-type wax levels, without any visible consequences on plant morphology (CITATION). Similarly, an abolishment of VLCFA in seed TAGs has no effect on the morphology of vegetative or floral parts of the plant (CITATION). To directly verify that loss of the ECR activity in the epidermis or the embryo did not cause morphological changes observed in cer10 mutants, we silenced the ECR gene specifically in these tissues by introduction of RNA interference (RNAi) constructs targeted against the ECR gene in the epidermal cells (ProCER6:ECRi) or the embryo (ProFAE1:ECRi). Transgenic Arabidopsis ProCER6:ECRi lines exhibited a ∼40% reduction in total wax load (Table 1), whereas ProFAE1:ECRi plants showed an ∼30% reduction in the seed storage lipid VLCFA content (Table 2), respectively. No morphological defects in transgenic plants were observed in either case. Therefore, the reduction the VLCFA content of sphingolipids is the most likely cause of the morphological abnormalities seen in the cer10 mutants. The presence of the natural C26 VLCFA in yeast sphingolipids is an essential prerequisite for maintaining lipid raft domains (CITATION) that play important roles in endomembrane organization and dynamics in yeast and animal cells (CITATION). To determine if detected changes in sphingolipid acyl chain length in the cer10 mutant affect the endomembrane structure and function, we examined the endomembrane system in leaf epidermal pavement cells using various fluorescent markers. Crossing the cer10-1 mutant with a line containing the ER marker GFP-HDEL (CITATION) allowed ER visualization that indicated that there was no significant difference in the overall ER morphology between wild-type (Figure 5A) and cer10 cells (Figure 5B). Examination of Golgi stacks marked by sialyltransferase (ST)-GFP (CITATION; CITATION) demonstrated that they were similar in number (Figures 5C and 5D) and mobility in the wild type and cer10. However, in the cer10 mutant, the Golgi appeared larger and had a tendency to form ring-like clusters comprised of 8 to 15 Golgi stacks (Figure 5D, arrows). Despite this change in Golgi stack organization, the steady state secretion evaluated by transport of the fluorescent secretory cargo molecule secretory GFP (secGFP) (CITATION) to the apoplast was not impaired in the cer10 cells (cf. Figures 5E and 5F). [[FIGURE]] We then used FM4-64 to track endocytic transport in the mutant cells. As in yeast, the uptake of the dye in plant cells is ATP and time dependent (CITATION), and it serves as a good marker for studying membrane internalization, recycling, and endocytosis (CITATION). In wild-type epidermal pavement cells, the fluorescence of FM4-64 first labeled the plasma membrane and was subsequently internalized, giving rise to various intracellular fluorescent punctate structures, which were distinct from the ST-GFP–labeled Golgi (Figure 6A). Prolonged staining (>1 h) usually outlined a large vacuolar structure as described (CITATION). In the cer10-1 mutant, in addition to the labeling of punctate structures, we observed that the internalized FM4-64 aggregated into one or two large clusters per cell (Figures 6B and 6C, arrows). Longer labeling revealed several smaller vacuoles in most cells, rather than a single large vacuole. Strikingly, the FM4-64–labeled clusters were surrounded with an ST-GFP–labeled ring of Golgi stacks (Figures 6B and 6C, arrows), resembling the pattern described for the defective endocytic membrane traffic in brefeldin A (BFA) or cytochalasin D (cyt-D)–treated cells (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). These results suggested abnormalities in the endocytic membrane organization and transport in the cer10 mutant. We found that FM4-64 internalization in the cer10 mutant was also hypersensitive to BFA treatment, as indicated in Figure 6E, showing more apparent clusters (two to three) of internalized FM4-64 surrounded by ST-GFP–labeled Golgi stacks in cer10 cells treated with BFA (10 μM) for 30 min (cf. Figures 6E to 6B and 6C). No clear FM4-64 aggregates surrounded by Golgi stacks were seen in wild-type cells after the identical BFA treatment (Figure 6D). These results further support the hypothesis that FM4-64 clusters observed in the cer10 mutant have likely arisen from defective endocytic membrane traffic. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Salk T-DNA insertional mutant lines and cer10-1 mutant seed were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (www.arabidopsis.org). cer10-1 plants expressing GFP-HDEL, ST-GFP, and secGFP were made by crossing transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana homozygous for the GFP fusions (pollen donors) to the mutant (egg donor). Plants on soil (Sunshine Mix 5; SunGro, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada) or on AT-agar plates (CITATION) were grown at 20 to 22°C under continuous light (100 to 120 μE m−2 s−1 photosynthetically active radiation). The RNA extractions were performed as described by CITATION. Approximately ten micrograms of RNA/lane was separated on a 1.1% denaturing agarose gel, transferred onto a nylon membrane, and hybridized with 32P-labeled ECR DNA, followed by detection with a Storm860 PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics, Sunnyvale, CA). The plasmid pENTR/SD/D-TOPO containing the ECR cDNA (U17245) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. To generate GFP-fused ECR, the cDNA of the ECR gene was amplified from pENTR/SD/D-TOPO with two primers, ECRBS5 (5′-CGGGATCCGTCGACATGAAGGTCACCGTCGTCTCCCCGC-3′) and ECRSTOP3 (5′-CGGGATCCTAAAGGAATGGAGGAAGTATCAC-3′), and was subcloned into the binary vector pVKH18-GFPN as a SalI-BamHI fragment resulting in pVKH18-GFP-ECR. The plasmid pVKH18-GFPN had been assembled using the following steps. The coding sequence of GFP5 in pVKH18-GFP-HDEL (CITATION) was amplified with primers GFP5N5 (5′-GCTCTAGAACAATGAGTAAAGGAGAAGAACTTTTCACTGG-3′) and GFP5N3 (5′-CGGGATCCTGCGTCGACTTTGTATAGTTCATCCATGCCATGTG-3′) and subcloned into pVKH18-sGFP (CITATION), replacing secGFP to yield pVKH18-GFPN. To engineer the RNAi ECR gene constructs ProCER6:ECRi and ProFAE1:ECRi, the ECR gene was amplified as a BamHI/XhoI/XbaI-EcoRI fragment with primers ECRXX5 (5′-CGGGATCCCTCGAGTCTAGAATGAAGGTCACCGTCGTCTCCGC-3′) and ECREcoRI3 (5′-CGGAATTCAAGGAATGGAGGAAGTATCAC-3′) and as a BamHI/SalI-EcoRI fragment with primers ECRBS5 and ECREcoRI3. These PCR products were then inserted into pHANNIBAL (CITATION) using XhoI-EcoRI and BamHI-HindIII sites to create the intron-spliced ECR gene construct pHANNIBAL-ECRi. The generated ECRi was cleaved as an XbaI-SalI fragment and used to replace GFPN in the pVKH18- ProCER6:GFPN and pVKH18-ProFAE1:GFPN, yielding pVKH18-ProCER6:ECRi and pVKH18-ProFAE1:ECRi, respectively. The plasmids pVKH18- ProCER6:GFPN and pVKH18-ProFAE1:GFPN were generated by replacing the 35S promoter in expression vector pVKH18-GFPN with the CER6 promoter in pLK379 (S. Clemens and L. Kunst, unpublished data) and the FAE1 promoter in pMS128 (CITATION). All PCR products were first cloned into pBluescript KS+ and sequenced. Transgenic Arabidopsis cer10-1 lines expressing GFP-ECR, ProCER6:ECRi, and ProFAE1:ECRi were generated by transformation of the plasmid pVKH18-GFP-ECR into Arabidopsis cer10-1 mutant plants and pVKH18-ProCER6:ECRi and pVKH18-ProFAE1:ECRi into wild-type Col-0 plants using the floral dipping method (CITATION). For expression of GFP-ECR in yeast tsc13-1elo2Δ cells, the coding region of GFP-ECR in pVKH18-GFP-ECR was released as a XbaII-Ecl136II fragment and then subcloned between SpeI and SmaI of the yeast expression vector p426-ADH (CITATION), yielding p426-ADH:GFP-ECR. Saccharomyces cerevisae strain TDY2057 (tsc13-1elo2Δ) (CITATION) was transformed and grown on selective media lacking uracil for complementation analysis. Cuticular wax was extracted and analyzed by gas chromatography (GC) according to CITATION. Seed fatty acid methyl esters were prepared and analyzed as described by CITATION. The extraction of total lipids from shoots of 6-week-old Arabidopsis plants, after the addition of C17:1 as internal standard, and isolation of GlcCers from the total lipid extract were performed according to CITATION. The total lipids and isolated GlcCers were transmethylated in 3M methanolic-HCl (Supelco, Bellefonte, PA) at 80°C for 18 h followed by extraction with hexane. The solvent was removed by a gentle stream of N2, then all samples were treated with bis-N,N-(trimethylsilyl)trifluoroacetamide (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) in pyridine (Fluka, Buchs, Switzerland) for 30 min at 70°C. The qualitative analyses of hydroxylated fatty acids in total lipids and fatty acids from GlcCers were performed using a capillary gas chromatograph (6890N; Agilent, Palo Alto, CA) with mass spectrometric detector (70 eV, mass-to-charge ratio 50 to 750, 5973N; Agilent). The quantitative analysis of the mixtures was performed by capillary GC (Agilent; 30 m DBHP-1, 0.32-mm i.d., df = 1 μm, J&W Scientific, Folsom, CA) using a flame ionization detector under the same GC conditions as above. A WildM5A stereomicroscope (Wild Heerbrugg, Gais, Switzerland) fitted with a digital SPOT camera (Diagnostic Instruments, Sterling Heights, MI) was used to take close-up pictures of seedlings, leaves, trichomes, flowers, stamens, and anthers. Pollen grains were mechanically released from anthers and were stained for 10 to 15 min with Alexander's stain (CITATION) for morphology and viability examination. Images were captured with a Zeiss Axioskop 2 light microscope (Jena, Germany) equipped with a digital SPOT camera. Leaves of Arabidopsis plants were immersed in FM4-64 (8.2 μM) solution for 10 min for plasma membrane staining and 30 to 60 min for membrane internalization analysis. For ER staining, seedlings of transgenic cer10 expressing GFP-ECR were immersed in hexyl rhodamine B solution (1.6 μM) for 10 to 30 min. BFA treatment was performed by immersion of expanding leaves of Arabidopsis plants in BFA (10 μM) solution. The GFP, FM4-64, and hexyl rhodamine B fluorescence were examined with a Radiance 2000 confocal laser scanning microscope (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). The excitation wavelength for GFP was 488 nm with the emission filter set at 500 to 530 nm. FM4-64 and hexyl rhodamine B were excited with a 543-nm argon ion laser line and a 600-nm long-pass emission filter. All confocal images obtained were processed with ImageJ (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij) and Adobe Photoshop 5.0 (Mountain View, CA) software.
