!~ABS~! The PEND protein is a DNA-binding protein in the inner envelope membrane of the developing chloroplast. It consists of a short pre-sequence, an N-terminal DNA-binding domain (cbZIP), a central repeat domain, and a C-terminal transmembrane domain. PEND homologs have been detected in various angiosperms, including Arabidopsis thaliana, Brassica napus, Medicago truncatula, cucumber and cherry. Monocot homologs have also been detected in barley and rice, but sequence conservation was low in monocots. PEND-related sequences have not been detected in non-flowering plants and algae. Green fluorescent protein fusions consisting of the N-terminal as well as full-length PEND homologs in A. thaliana and B. napus were targeted to chloroplasts, and localized to nucleoids and chloroplast periphery, respectively. Immunoblot analysis suggested that crucifer homologs were present in chloroplasts probably as a dimer, as in the case of pea. These results suggest that PEND protein is present in angiosperms, and the homologs in crucifers are functionally analogous to the PEND protein in pea.
!~RES~! Various homologs of PEND protein were identified by a BLAST search of the database as of spring 2002, and the alignment was used to design primers for amplification of PEND homologs (see below). Figure 1a shows an alignment of such sequences from a more recent database, including those from soybean, Medicago truncatula, tomato, rice and barley, in addition to those from pea, Brassica napus, and Arabidopsis thaliana as well as additional sequences obtained in this study. The pea sequence that we previously deposited in the database (X98740) contained a single nucleotide deletion at position 1840 (AA instead of AAA), which made the translation product longer (633 aa). The correct protein sequence terminates at 613 aa with ‘GKLLSE’ at its end. In addition, the N-terminus starts with consecutive methionines, but the first Met residue is not conserved in other homologs except soybean and therefore the second Met is considered as the initiation codon in this alignment (Fig. 1a). The cbZIP and transmembrane domains are conserved, but the central region is highly variable. The central region of pea PEND protein contains a nearly perfect sextuple (six times) repeat of 35 residues (Sato et al. CITATION), but this repeat is poorly conserved in other homologs. The length of the central region is also variable, from 263 residues in Brassica to 440 residues in pea. [[FIGURE]]  Based on this alignment (or more precisely, the alignment made in spring 2002), PCR primers were designed and PCR amplification of PEND sequence was attempted using genomic DNA or cDNA of various plant species. Amplified fragments were analyzed by hybridization with authentic PEND probes and then finally identified by sequencing. Thus, we isolated partial cDNAs for PEND homologs in cucumber and cherry. In addition, two cDNA clones (named 1 and 2) were also obtained from a Japanese cultivar of Brassica napus (Aburana). Among them, cDNA 1 encoded a protein similar to BNGSBF1, while cDNA 2 encoded a paralog of GNGSBF1. This is consistent with the fact that the Brassica genome is internally duplicated (the A and the C genomes). In monocots, partial DNA sequences that encode the N-terminal part of putative PEND homologs were found. In a recent rice database, we found a more complete genomic sequence encoding a PEND homolog. The barley sequence in Fig. 1a is an assembly of two overlapping EST sequences. PEND homologs in monocots were conserved in the N-terminal domain, but the C-terminal transmembrane domain was less conserved. However, the position of the first and last introns (shown with large triangles in Fig. 1) was conserved in all plants for which genomic sequence was available (including rice). The positions of other introns (small triangles along the sequences in Fig. 1) was somewhat variable depending on the species. These results suggest that all these genes share a common origin. The phylogenetic relationship of these PEND homologs as deduced by the neighbor-joining method (Fig. 1b) was not completely consistent with the known phylogeny of these plants (Soltis et al. CITATION), maybe because partial sequences were used in tomato, cherry and cucumber. Soybean and barley sequences were not used in the phylogenetic analysis, because these EST sequences did not have the well-conserved C-terminal domain. The two lineages of Brassica homologs may represent the A and C genomes. The two legumes, pea and Medicago truncatula, were dissimilar in the N-terminal sequence as well as in the central repeat region, and this is reflected in the distant position of M. truncatula in the phylogenetic tree. Other plants that we examined but in which we did not detect PEND homologs were: black pine, Cycas taiwaniana and Cedrus deodara (gymnosperms), Psilotum nudum, Dryopteris maxima, Angiopteris formosum and Botrichium virginianum (pteridophytes), Atrichum undulatum, Physcomitrella patens and Marchantia paleacea (bryophytes), Ulva pertusa, Enteromorpha prolifera and Codium fragile (Ulvophyceae). No homologous sequences were found in the genomic sequences of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii (Joint Genome Initiative; http://www.jgi.doe.gov/) and Cyanidioschyzon merolae (red alga, Matsuzaki et al. CITATION). Southern hybridization using P. patens subsp. patens total genomic DNA was performed prior to this study and some bands were detected at a low stringency. However, a cloned DNA was found to contain a part of the mitochondrial nad7 gene having a perfect 18 bp match with the cbZIP probe (Hashimoto and Sato CITATION). It is difficult to obtain definite results in lower land plants with such low stringency experiments. Originally, PEND protein was isolated from the envelope membranes of developing pea chloroplasts (Sato et al. CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). We tested the targeting of PEND proteins using GFP fusion constructs. First, we tested localization of fusion proteins consisting of full-length PEND protein and GFP. We introduced such constructs of pea PEND protein into pea leaves, and found that the GFP fluorescence was localized to the envelope membrane, as evidenced by a circular fluorescent ring surrounding plastids (Fig. 2a). However, GFP-expressing mesophyll cells such as were seen later with shorter constructs were never observed. We detected fluorescence of full-length PEND-GFP only in epidermal cells and at a very low frequency. We also introduced the same constructs into the moss protonemata by particle bombardment, and consistently detected GFP fluorescence, again localized as a ring at the periphery of chloroplasts (Fig. 2c). These results verified the envelope localization of the PEND protein. [[FIGURE]]  We also used the moss protonemata in the experiments with PEND homologs, because the moss system is useful in analyzing targeting of GFP fusion proteins, especially for proteins such as full-length PEND protein, which is not efficiently expressed in the pea or Arabidopsis thaliana systems (see above). The GFP fusion proteins of homologs of A. thaliana and Brassica napus were targeted to chloroplasts. Within the chloroplasts, the fusion proteins were localized to particulate structures located preferentially in the periphery of chloroplasts. We noted that the Brassica1 (the protein encoded by cDNA 1), which is nearly identical to BNGSBF1, is not targeted to nucleus. In these experiments, the GFP fusion protein was localized mostly to particulate structures, possibly nucleoids, but the chloroplasts were vaguely fluorescent, suggesting that the fusion protein was also present in the chloroplast envelope. We then analyzed the localization of fusion proteins consisting of the N-terminal part of PEND proteins and GFP (Fig. 3). None of the PEND homologs contained a putative chloroplast targeting sequence as predicted by the TargetP program (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/, Henrik et al. CITATION) at the N-terminus. However, all the constructs tested in Fig. 2 were indeed targeted to chloroplasts. We used the N-terminal part consisting of the pre-sequence and DNA-binding domain to further analyze chloroplast targeting and nucleoid binding. Figure 3 shows that the N-terminal part alone was able to target GFP-fusion proteins to the chloroplasts. In addition, the fluorescence was localized to particulate structures that were possibly nucleoids. This point was verified by counter-staining with DAPI (Terasawa and Sato CITATION). These experiments were performed with either pea leaves or leaves of Arabidopsis thaliana or Brassica napus. In these experiments with short constructs, we sometimes detected weak fluorescence of nuclei (Fig. 3a, e, g), depending on the experiment. In experiments with transformation of protoplasts with these constructs (data not shown), more intense fluorescence was frequently found in the nucleus. In stably transformed plants, PEND-GFP protein was localized almost exclusively in chloroplasts (Sato et al. CITATION; Terasawa and Sato CITATION). These findings suggest that wounding might enhance targeting of the N-terminal part of PEND protein into the nucleus. It is possible that the PEND protein is re-targeted to the nucleus when it is cleaved within the chloroplasts. This is also consistent with the finding that the N-terminal construct lacking the pre-sequence was targeted to the nucleus (unpublished results). [[FIGURE]]   BNGSBF1, which is highly similar to Brassica PEND homolog 1, was previously shown to be expressed in B. napus leaves (Waldmüller et al. CITATION). No clear evidence has been presented that the Arabidopsis thaliana homolog is expressed, although the PEND homolog At3g52170 is described as expressed sequence in the TAIR database. To complement the results of GFP-fusion targeting, we applied immunodetection to the investigation of PEND homologs in the chloroplasts of crucifers (Fig. 4). We used seedlings of A. thaliana and B. napus as well as broccoli and cabbage, although the genomic sequence of PEND has not been identified in the latter two species. PEND protein dimer was detected as a 130-kDa band in pea chloroplasts (Fig. 4b, lane 3). The 70-kDa band represents PEND protein monomer, which might be present at a low level within the chloroplasts, or produced during the analytical procedure. The size of PEND homologs in crucifers is estimated to be smaller than that of pea PEND (Fig. 1a), ranging from 91 to 104 kDa. A dimer at about 91 kDa was detected in B. napus, whereas a band at about 104 kDa was detected in the two varieties of B. oleracea (Fig. 4a). Here, we used antibodies raised against the N-terminal region of pea PEND protein, which is highly conserved in crucifers (Fig. 1a). Only a faint band was detected in A. thaliana at this size. We repeated experiments with A. thaliana with different preparations of chloroplasts from different ages of leaves (Fig. 4b). A 108-kDa band was detected with chloroplasts from 25-day-old leaves. PEND monomer might possibly be detected in the immunoblot analysis, but non-specific reaction with abundant proteins (presumably RuBisCO and undissociated photosystem complexes) interfered with detection of PEND monomers. Detection is also made difficult by the fact that crucifer PEND was being detected with antisera against pea PEND. These results suggest that the PEND homolog in crucifers is indeed expressed and the protein is localized to the chloroplasts as a dimer, just as in the case of pea PEND protein. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! PEND protein sequences were retrieved from the GenBank database and aligned using the Clustal X program (Thompson et al. CITATION). Based on this alignment, additional cDNA sequences were obtained by PCR as described in Results, and these were added to the alignment as shown in Fig. 1. In tomato, Medicago truncatula, soybean and barley, EST sequences were used to identify putative PEND sequences. EST sequences were individually aligned using the ‘Profile alignment’ mode. From this alignment, poorly conserved sites (gaps in more than 20% of total sequences) were removed by the ‘getclu’ command with ‘gap’ option of the SISEQ program (Sato CITATION). The resulting alignment (10 OTUs with 341 sites) was used to construct a neighbor-joining (Saitou and Nei CITATION) tree using the PHYLIP package with the protdist, neighbor, seqboot, and consense commands (Felsenstein CITATION). Seedlings of Pisum sativum were grown on moist vermiculite at 25°C under continuous light as described previously (Sato et al. CITATION). Seedlings of Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia were grown in soil at 22°C under continuous illumination by fluorescent lamps (40 μmol−1 m−1 s−1). Seedlings of Brassica napus (Aburana in Japanese), B. oleracea var. italica (broccoli) and B. oleracea var. capitata (cabbage) were grown in a similar way. Protonemata of the moss Physcomitrella patens subsp. patens were grown as described previously (Kabeya et al. CITATION), and used for transformation. Pteridophyte plants (as described in Results) were obtained from the Botanical Gardens, University of Tokyo. DNA of other plants was from the laboratory stock. DNA was extracted from various plant tissues using a DNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). PCR was performed with primers F (5′-GTTGGTGGITCTTTCTACAC-3′) and R (5′-YTCIGACMAIAAYTTCMCAAAIGC-3′), corresponding to the zipper and trans-membrane regions, respectively (see Fig. 1a) using ExTaq polymerase (Takara Bio, Kyoto, Japan) under standard conditions (I, inosine; Y=T/C; M=A/C). Amplified DNA was cloned into pBluescript SK+ and sequenced with Big Dye Terminator Version 3 (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, Calif.). Nucleotide sequences of PEND homologs were deposited with DDBJ as follows: Brassica napus 1, AB189734; B. napus 2, AB189735; Pisum sativum (genomic), AB189736; Cucumis sativus, AB189737; Prunus yedoensis, AB189738. Plasmids containing part of the PEND cDNA fused to the sGFP (synthetic green fluorescent protein) gene were constructed using the vector pGFP (Chiu et al. CITATION). In these constructs, the 35S promoter of cauliflower mosaic virus preceded the PEND sequences, and the nopaline synthase (NOS) terminator was located downstream of the sGFP sequence. These plasmids were introduced into either mature foliage leaves of 14-day-old pea seedlings, rosette leaves of 21-day-old Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings, or leaves of 21-day-old Brassica napus seedlings, by particle bombardment using a particle delivery system model PDS-1000/He (Bio-Rad, ON, Canada). Rupture disks for 1,100 psi (7,580 kPa) and gold particles with a diameter of 1.0 μm were used. After 24 h of further growth, the epidermis together with a layer of mesophyll cells of the bombarded leaf was peeled off and examined under a fluorescence microscope (Olympus, model BX-60) with an IB filter cube.  Particle bombardment was also used to introduce plasmids into protonemal cells of the moss Physcomitrella patens grown on agar plates. Chloroplasts were isolated from leaves of Arabidopsis thaliana, Brassica napus, and B. oleracea by a standard method (see Sato et al. CITATION) and solubilized in sample loading buffer for SDS-PAGE. The lysates were electrophoresed by SDS-PAGE using a gel containing a low concentration of bis-acrylamide, and then transferred to a PVDF membrane as described previously (Sato et al. CITATION). Chloroplasts of pea were also analyzed as a control. PEND-related polypeptides were detected using antibodies raised against the N-terminal domain of recombinant pea PEND protein as the primary antibody. After reacting with alkaline phosphatase-conjugated secondary antibody, signals were finally detected by chemiluminescence using CDPStar (Roche, Penzberg, Germany) as described previously (Sato et al. CITATION).
