!~ABS~! In plant chloroplasts two superoxide dismutase (SOD) activities occur, FeSOD and Cu/ZnSOD, with reciprocal regulation in response to copper availability. This system presents a unique model to study the regulation of metal-cofactor delivery to an organelle. The Arabidopsis thaliana gene AtCCS encodes a functional homolog to yeast Ccs1p/Lys7p, a copper chaperone for SOD. The AtCCS protein was localized to chloroplasts where it may supply copper to the stromal Cu/ZnSOD. AtCCS mRNA expression levels are upregulated in response to Cu-feeding and senescence. We propose that AtCCS expression is regulated to allow the most optimal use of Cu for photosynthesis.
!~RES~! In analogy to the situation in yeast, Cu chaperones may exist, which deliver Cu to specific targets within the chloroplast. Although the Arabidopsis genome encodes many proteins with Cys–x–x–Cys containing possible heavy metal binding domains, our database searches revealed the presence of just two candidate genes encoding putative soluble proteins with a heavy metal binding domain and a putative chloroplast targeting sequence (AGI nos: At1g12520 and At2g28660). Of these two genes, one (At1g12520) encodes a protein similar to Ccs1p/Lys7p, the yeast Cu-chaperone for Cu/ZnSOD. Earlier database searches suggested that AtCCS may be the only LYS7 -like sequence in Arabidopsis and it has been speculated that the gene encodes gene products in both plastids and cytosol CITATION . The same protein had been identified as a potential homolog of Ccs1p/Lys7p, however that clone lacked a significant portion of the N-terminal sequence CITATION . We used RT-PCR to obtain the full-length protein-coding sequence for AtCCS . Sequence comparison of the cloned cDNA and the published genomic sequence (TAIR) indicated the presence of 6 exons and 5 introns ( CITATION ), an organization that is shared with the potato homolog CITATION . The cDNA sequence confirmed the exon assignment in the MIPS database ( http://mips.gsf.de/proj/thal/db/ ) and indicates that it encodes a protein of 320 amino acids. A sequence alignment of AtCCS with other predicted CCS proteins is shown in CITATION B. The N-terminal region of AtCCS includes a predicted 66-amino acid cleavable chloroplast targeting sequence, and similar sequences are found in the other plant CCS proteins. The predicted mature AtCCS protein shares a three-domain structure typical of CCS proteins, including a conserved Atx1-like domain with canonical MxCxxC binding motifs (domain I), a central domain with similarity to a portion of Cu/ZnSOD (domain II) and a C-terminal region which includes two conserved cysteines (domain III). To investigate if AtCCS is a functional homolog of yeast Ccs1p/Lys7p the Arabidopsis protein was expressed without its transit sequence in a yeast lys7 mutant. We tested for functional complementation by assaying the growth phenotype on media that lack lysine or contain the superoxide generator menadione ( CITATION ) and by assaying SOD activity ( CITATION B). An isogenic wild-type strain and a lys7 mutant transformed with an empty vector were used as controls. Expression of AtCCS rescues both the growth defect phenotype and SOD activity in the lys7 mutant. We conclude that AtCCS is functional as a copper chaperone for SOD in yeast. In order to investigate the intracellular localization of AtCCS, the coding sequence for full-length AtCCS protein was fused to the coding sequence for green fluorescent protein in a transient expression vector under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (CAMV35S) constitutive promoter. Isolated Arabidopsis protoplasts were transformed with this plasmid and analyzed for GFP expression. Protoplasts transformed with control CAMV35S:GFP exhibited GFP fluorescence in the cytosol as shown in CITATION . In contrast, AtCCS:GFP is localized in structures corresponding to chloroplasts when compared to red chlorophyll fluorescence, indicating that AtCCS is imported along with the GFP passenger into chloroplasts. We analyzed the expression of AtCCS using RNA blots which indicated that AtCCS is expressed both in root and shoot tissues ( CITATION ). A striking increase in AtCCS mRNA levels was seen in shoots during natural senescence ( CITATION B). To investigate the effects of Cu feeding and plastid Cu levels we compared the mRNA expression in shoot tissue of WT and paa1 and paa2 mutant plants under different conditions of Cu supply ( CITATION C). AtCCS mRNA levels are clearly induced by elevated Cu levels ( CITATION C). Interestingly, in the paa2 mutant which accumulates Cu in the stroma CITATION , AtCCS mRNA levels were induced at much lower Cu concentrations compared to the WT and paa1 mutant. RT-PCR experiments showed that treatment with other metal ions such as Fe did not induce AtCCS expression.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis plants, the wild-type ecotype Colombia-0 and the mutant lines paa1 - 3 CITATION and paa2 - 1 CITATION were grown under a 16 h light/8 h dark cycle on soil at 23 °C. For growth on agar media, seeds were surface-sterilized and sown on solid 1/2 strength Murashige and Skoog (1/2 MS) medium including 1% sucrose and 0.4% agargel CITATION . The medium was supplemented with CuSO 4 as indicated. Messenger RNA isolation from 14-day old seedlings and cDNA synthesis are described CITATION . Primers to amplify the cDNA containing the coding sequence for AtCCS (AGI: At1g12520) by PCR are as follows (upstream/downstream): 5′ TACCGCGGTACCATGGCGACTGCTCT and 5′ ATCCGCGGATCCTTAACCCTTACTGGCCAGGAAA. The PCR fragments were subcloned in Kpn 1/ Bam H1 digested pBluescript-SK (Stratagene, San Diego CA). To generate a green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion, the full-coding sequence of AtCCS was amplified to introduce Sal 1/ Nco 1 restriction sites for cloning in the GFP reporter plasmid 35Ω-SGFP(S65T) CITATION , generously provided by Dr. Norbert Rolland (Université Joseph Fourier, France). Enzymes, cellulase Onozuka R-10 and Macerozyme R-10 were obtained from Karlan Research Products (Santa Rosa, CA, USA). Protoplasts were isolated and transformed as described CITATION . A confocal laser-scanning microscope (FVX-IHRT Fluoview Confocal LSM, Olympus, Melville, NY, USA) with Kr/Ar laser excitation (488 nm) was used to monitor green fluorescence (530 nm) and red chlorophyll auto fluorescence (660 nm). Images were captured and processed using Fluoview software at a 90× magnification at a scan speed of 0.45 s for 256 × 256 pixel area. Scan slices were 1.0 μm thick. The AtCCS mature sequence was cloned under the control of the constitutive PGK promoter in the yeast shuttle vector pFL61 CITATION after PCR amplification to introduce Not 1 restriction sites. The yeast lys7 mutant CITATION was obtained from Dr. V. Culotta (Johns Hopkins University). Strains were transformed using the Li-acetate method, transformed colonies were selected on SC minimal media lacking uracil. Complementation was tested by plating serial dilutions on SC-minimal media lacking lysine CITATION or supplemented with Menadione (sigma, St Louis, Mo). Plates were incubated at 30 °C for 3 days. Protein was assayed according to CITATION . SOD activity assays were performed as described CITATION . RNA blots were performed as described CITATION . DNA constructs were sequenced in two directions at Davis Sequencing (Davis, CA, USA). Multiple protein alignments were performed with the ClustalW program CITATION .
