!~ABS~! The orientation of cell expansion is a process at the heart of plant morphogenesis. Cellulose microfibrils are the primary anisotropic material in the cell wall and thus are likely to be the main determinant of the orientation of cell expansion. COBRA (COB) has been identified previously as a potential regulator of cellulose biogenesis. In this study, characterization of a null allele, cob-4, establishes the key role of COB in controlling anisotropic expansion in most developing organs. Quantitative polarized-light and field-emission scanning electron microscopy reveal that loss of anisotropic expansion in cob mutants is accompanied by disorganization of the orientation of cellulose microfibrils and subsequent reduction of crystalline cellulose. Analyses of the conditional cob-1 allele suggested that COB is primarily implicated in microfibril deposition during rapid elongation. Immunodetection analysis in elongating root cells revealed that, in agreement with its substitution by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor, COB was polarly targeted to both the plasma membrane and the longitudinal cell walls and was distributed in a banding pattern perpendicular to the longitudinal axis via a microtubule-dependent mechanism. Our observations suggest that COB, through its involvement in cellulose microfibril orientation, is an essential factor in highly anisotropic expansion during plant morphogenesis.
!~RES~! Previously, COB was shown to be expressed in most plant organs on the basis of RNA gel blots and RT-PCR analyses (CITATION; CITATION). To specify the spatial and temporal expression pattern of COB during plant development, a β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter fusion was generated. Approximately 2.5 kb of COB 5′ upstream sequence was fused to the uidA gene followed by 1.4 kb of COB 3′ downstream sequence, and the resulting PCOB:GUS fusion was introduced into wild-type Arabidopsis. Assaying GUS activity at different times in the plant life cycle revealed that COB was expressed only postembryonically, with its strongest expression in the root. Weaker GUS activity was detectable in growing leaves, particularly in epidermal cells, guard cells, and fully developed trichomes, as well as in the stigma and anthers of developing flowers. GUS activity was first detectable in the root tips of germinating seedlings (Figure 1A ), where it showed a sharp upregulation at or near the onset of the elongation zone, and expression remained strong in the more differentiated parts of the root. At all stages, COB expression was absent in primary and lateral root meristems (Figures 1B to 1D). This expression pattern is consistent with the in situ hybridization pattern reported previously (CITATION). COB expression was also observed in etiolated hypocotyls, which undergo rapid anisotropic expansion (Figure 1E). During skotomorphogenesis, the GUS staining pattern in the hypocotyls mirrored the acropetal elongation gradient (CITATION; CITATION), providing further evidence linking COB expression and rapid longitudinal expansion. [[FIGURE]] Analysis of the COB amino acid sequence predicted its substitution with a GPI anchor (CITATION). To validate the glypiation of COB, we prepared total membranes from Arabidopsis callus culture and partitioned them into a dextran phase (DEX), which contains endomembranes and is depleted in plasma membrane, and a polyethylene glycol (PEG) phase, which is plasma membrane-enriched. Protein gel blot analysis of the resulting fractions using anti-COB affinity-purified antibodies demonstrated that COB was associated with the plasma membrane (Figure 2A ). As expected, the endoplasmic reticulum–localized cytochrome b 5 was depleted from the plasma membrane–enriched fraction, whereas the plasma membrane–localized ATPase was enriched. To determine whether COB is a GPI-anchored protein, total membranes were fractionated by Triton X-114 phase partitioning, thereby separating peripheral membrane proteins from integral and GPI-anchored proteins, which are present in the detergent phase. The detergent phase was then incubated with a phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C (PI-PLC) and subjected again to phase partitioning. As shown in Figure 2B, in the absence of PI-PLC treatment, the COB protein was present in the detergent and not detectable in the aqueous phase, whereas the PI-PLC treatment of this detergent fraction resulted in the release of the COB protein from the membrane fraction into the soluble (aqueous) fraction. In a control, the endoplasmic reticulum–localized and integral membrane protein cytochrome b 5 remained insensitive to the PI-PLC treatment. [[FIGURE]] COB, like many other extracellular proteins, has been predicted to be N-glycosylated (CITATION; CITATION). When crude root extracts or microsomal membrane fractions were treated with peptide N-glycosidase F, the COB protein detected by immunoblot analysis displayed greater mobility compared with the undigested samples (Figure 2C). This change in protein mobility indicated that COB in its membrane-bound form had been posttranslationally modified by the addition of N-linked glycans. In the total and endomembrane fractions, the affinity-purified anti-COB antibodies also recognized a smaller protein, which partitioned as a peripheral membrane protein (Figures 2A and 2B). We hypothesize that this protein band corresponds to a cleaved and unmodified version of COB present in the endoplasmic reticulum. The primary developmental defect of the cob alleles described previously was associated with root elongation (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The discrepancy between the root-specific defects and the widespread expression pattern reported here could be explained either by functional redundancy with other genes in the aerial part of the plant (CITATION) or by a degree of functionality retained by the missense alleles whose phenotype was characterized. To distinguish between these hypotheses, we identified a putative null allele of cob in the Syngenta Arabidopsis Insertion Library (SAIL) (CITATION). Line 735D10 contains a T-DNA insertion in the fifth exon of COB at amino acid Met-213 and was renamed cob-4. Our analyses indicate that this mutation is recessive, monogenic, and nuclear. The BASTA resistance marker associated with the T-DNA cosegregated with the mutant phenotype, and the phenotype was complemented by expressing the COB cDNA under the 35S promoter (data not shown). No detectable signal was observed in protein gel blots of cob-4 protein extracts using anti-COB antibodies (see Methods), providing evidence that cob-4 is a null allele. cob-4 plants were sterile, as a result of the complete absence of inflorescence stem development. The phenotype of transheterozygous cob-1/cob-4 plants was very similar to that of cob-1/cob-1 homozygotes, conditional on growth rate and apparent only in the root (data not shown). This finding suggests that cob-1 is a partial loss-of-function allele of COB. The growth of cob-4 seedlings was reduced dramatically compared with that of wild-type seedlings in all conditions tested. When grown on vertical plates, cob-4 seedlings were ∼90% shorter (measured from the shoot apical meristem to the root tip) and significantly thicker. A reduction in length was seen in all organs (Figure 3A ). By contrast, cob-1 seedlings were similar to the wild type when grown on 0.3% sucrose (the permissive condition) and were ∼15% larger than cob-4 when grown on 4.5% sucrose (the restrictive condition). Dark-grown hypocotyls of cob-4 seedlings had an ∼95% reduction in length compared with the wild type (Figure 3B). This finding demonstrates that COB is also essential for the rapid elongation of the etiolated hypocotyl. By contrast, cob-1 and qui-1 (a conditional mutant allele of the cellulose synthase subunit AtCESA6) had only 25 and 67% reductions in hypocotyl length, respectively. Interestingly, the homozygous cob-1 qui-1 double mutant showed an additive phenotype, with an 85% reduction in hypocotyl length (Figure 3B). [[FIGURE]] Observations of roots from 7-d-old seedlings by scanning electron microscopy revealed that cob-1 and cob-4 have similar but not identical root-swelling phenotypes (Figures 4A, 4F, and 4K ). Paradoxically, in seedlings continuously grown under restrictive conditions, the meristem of cob-1 roots (77 individuals out of 80) showed abnormal radial expansion, whereas the same region of the root in cob-4 mutants showed little or no change in cell shape compared with the wild type (43 individuals out of 45). In both genotypes, root hairs emerged close to the root tip from cells that appeared to have undergone little elongation. To compare the cellular morphology in the different zones of the mutants, transverse sections were made at increasing distances from the root tip. In the root cap and quiescent center region, the mutants were similar to the wild type (Figures 4B, 4G, and 4L). Differences between the two alleles became apparent in the meristem, where cells exhibited abnormal radial expansion in cob-1 but remained fairly normal in cob-4 (Figures 4C, 4H, and 4M). Furthermore, cob-1 roots attained their maximal diameter in the early elongation zone (Figures 4D, 4I, and 4N), whereas cob-4 roots expanded radially throughout the elongation zone, ultimately reaching a diameter that was nearly twice that of the wild type. Also in the elongation zone, cells in the cob-4 epidermis took on a characteristic bulging morphology (Figure 4O). In both alleles, cell walls were occasionally broken, mostly in the epidermal layer. Cell wall breakage was rare and did not seem to derive from incomplete cell plate formation or abnormal cell divisions. [[FIGURE]] Whereas cob-1 aerial organs are similar to wild-type organs (Figure 4P) (CITATION; CITATION), 7-d-old cob-4 hypocotyls and cotyledons are much smaller and thicker than those of the wild type (Figure 4Q). There is also widespread bulging of epidermal cells (Figures 4S to 4V), although the shoot apical meristem, leaf primordia, and very young leaves do not appear to be affected. Longitudinal sections of entire seedlings at different developmental stages confirmed the absence of sustained anisotropic cell expansion as well as the ballooning of epidermal cells (Figures 4R and 4U). The sections also revealed some internal expansion abnormalities in leaf mesophyll cells, which reduced or eliminated intercellular air spaces. In the absence of hypocotyl, petiole, and stem elongation, 3-week-old cob-4 plants appeared severely stunted, with thick and vitreous organs. Callus-like clusters often appeared on the adaxial side of the leaves. Together, these morphological observations highlight the essential and specific role of COB in the control of anisotropic expansion during plant morphogenesis. Previous work has shown that cob-1 has lower levels of crystalline cellulose when grown for 1 week under restrictive conditions, suggesting that COB is required for cellulose synthesis (CITATION). To investigate this notion further, we used polarized-light microscopy and digital imaging to determine the relationship between the expansion defect observed in cob roots and the amount and degree of organization of cellulose microfibrils. The birefringent retardation (retardance) measured within a single cell wall is proportional to the amount of crystalline cellulose and its net degree of orientation (CITATION). We focused our analyses on epidermal cells at the border of the meristem and elongation zones, where COB expression is sharply upregulated. At this developmental transition, postmitotic cells abruptly accelerate their elongation rate 5- to 10-fold (CITATION). In the elongation zone, cellulose microfibrils (and cortical microtubules) are oriented perpendicular to the direction of rapid elongation (CITATION; CITATION). To follow microfibril behavior during a gradual loss of growth anisotropy resulting from COB deficiency, and to dissect primary from secondary effects triggered by the absence of functional COB, we took advantage of the conditional nature of the cob-1 mutation and performed measurements at 0, 12, 24, and 30 h after a shift from permissive to restrictive conditions, with equivalent measurements made for the wild type and cob-4. At the beginning of the condition-shift experiment (0 h), cob-1 roots had a wild-type appearance; swelling was first detectable after ∼12 h and spread during the time course, being apparent first in the elongation zone and only subsequently in the meristem (Figure 5A ; see Supplemental Figure 1 online). [[FIGURE]] In the wild type, average retardance was highest in the meristem and relatively constant at different time points and slightly lower but still constant in the elongation zone (Figure 5B, top). By contrast, cells in the cob-4 meristematic and elongation zones had lower retardance than wild-type cells. At time 0, cob-1 cell walls had comparable retardance with the wild type, which did not change during the time course, although there was a nonsignificant trend toward reduced retardance in both regions (Figure 5B). These data suggest that the gradual loss of COB function did not trigger a significant reduction in the quantity of microfibrils or their net orientation in the root growth zone. For comparison, permanent loss of COB function in cob-4 roots or in cob-1 seedlings grown under restrictive conditions for several days (CITATION) resulted in a significant decrease in retardance, which can be considered a secondary effect of the mutations. To examine the orientation of the microfibrils, the average values of optical azimuth were obtained from the same cell wall regions where retardance was measured (Figure 5B, bottom). No evident difference between the average azimuth, oriented approximately transverse to the longitudinal axis, was detected in the cob alleles compared with the wild type in either root zone. However, we consistently noted a greater variability in the azimuth measurements performed on the cob alleles, especially in cob-4, in cells from the elongation zone compared with wild-type cells. The frequency distribution of azimuths for the measured cell wall regions had a sd of ∼20° for the wild type but was wider and flatter for cob-4 and cob-1 at 30 h (Figure 5C). This variability indicates that the loss of COB activity disrupts the processes that align microfibrils, even in cob-1, in which levels of cellulose were apparently maintained. To complement the data obtained with polarized-light microscopy, which responds to the crystalline cellulose throughout the wall, we performed field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM) to image directly the innermost cellulose microfibrils in longitudinal walls. As shown in Figures 6A to 6D , in the successive wild-type root zones, the most recently deposited microfibrils were parallel and oriented transversely to the elongation axis, as reported previously (CITATION). The deposition patterns of cellulose microfibrils in cells within the cob-4 meristem (Figure 6F) were similar to those of the wild type (Figure 6B). By contrast, in the cob-4 elongation zone, the cell walls showed apparently randomly oriented microfibrils (Figure 6G). This disorganization of microfibrils was also visible in cells within the maturation zone (Figure 6H). FESEM analysis of cob-1 walls allowed us to image microfibrils resulting from a partial loss of COB function and in cells exhibiting less dramatic morphological alterations. Because of the difficulty of the FESEM procedure, cell walls in cob-1 roots were analyzed only at 24 h after the condition shift. At this stage, the cob-1 root was significantly swollen (Figure 6I). In the cob-1 meristem, most of the walls analyzed displayed parallel cellulose microfibrils that were oriented perpendicular to the longitudinal axis (Figures 6J and 6J′). However, in the elongation zone, microfibrils were sometimes transverse (Figure 6K), as they are at an approximately comparable region of the wild type, and sometimes disordered (Figure 6K′), as in cob-4. Farther away from the tip, cell walls in cob-1 tended to resemble those in cob-4 (Figures 6L and 6L′). In summary, 24 h after the condition shift, partial loss of COB function resulted in local disorganization of cellulose microfibrils. Together, these data demonstrate that COB is required for the proper orientation of newly synthesized cellulose microfibrils in regions that experience rapid expansion. [[FIGURE]] The distribution of the COB protein in elongating cells was analyzed in intact roots using whole-mount indirect immunofluorescence and confocal laser scanning microscopy. In agreement with its expression pattern, COB was detected in the elongation zone, whereas no signal above background was observed in the meristem (Figure 7A ). Higher up in the elongation zone, the signal became weaker, and no significant signal was detected in the maturation zone. As expected from the absence of signal on protein gel blots, no significant signal was detected in the cob-4 mutant (data not shown). A closer examination of the wild-type root revealed that the COB protein was first detectable as a diffuse cytoplasmic and peripheral signal at the onset of the elongation zone, and soon the majority of the detected protein became organized in discrete domains on or in the vicinity of the plasma membrane (Figures 7D and 7E). In cells beginning to expand rapidly, COB patches appeared to be organized into narrow bands oriented perpendicularly to the longitudinal axis in a pattern reminiscent of cortical microtubules (Figures 7E and 7F). Double labeling of COB and cortical microtubules (Figures 7B and 7G), although confirming the similar orientation of cortical microtubules and the COB bands in elongating cells, only occasionally revealed COB-dependent fluorescence directly overlying cortical microtubules (Figures 7C and 7H). A similar transverse COB pattern was observed in cob-1 roots under both permissive and restrictive conditions (data not shown). The orientation of the cortical microtubules was not significantly affected in cob-1 (CITATION) or in cob-4 at the beginning of the elongation zone (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The relationship between the transverse COB bands and the cortical microtubule network was investigated using genetic and pharmacological approaches. Whole-mount immunolocalization using anti-COB antibodies was performed in weak and strong alleles of the ton2 mutant, which is characterized by a disturbance or loss of orientation of the cortical microtubules (without apparent depolymerization) in elongating cells (CITATION). In both ton2-14 and ton2-13, COB was detected in the compacted root elongation zone (Figures 7I and 7J) and was more randomly distributed in these cells than in the wild type (Figure 7K). When wild-type roots were treated for 45 min with 10 μM oryzalin, a period in which microtubules depolymerized completely (data not shown) but cell swelling was undetectable, the COB aggregates appeared to be severely randomized (Figure 7L). These findings indicate that COB distribution at the surface of elongating cells depends on the organization of cortical microtubules. As a GPI-anchored protein, COB would be expected to follow a secretion path and reach the cell periphery through vesicular trafficking. Treatment of elongating root cells with brefeldin A (a vesicle-trafficking inhibitor) resulted in a strong decrease of the COB banding pattern (still visible as weak bands at the cell surface or as dots along the longitudinal walls) and triggered the accumulation of COB in large intracellular compartments (Figure 7M). This suggests that the polar secretion of COB is very active in root elongating cells and shows that the signal observed is a combination of COB-containing vesicles and COB at the cell surface. COB distribution at the subcellular level was further examined by transmission electron microscopy of high-pressure-frozen, immunogold-labeled material from the elongation zone of wild-type roots. At the outer face of epidermal cells (Figure 8A ), COB was associated with the Golgi and abundant in the cell wall, supporting its transit along a Golgi-derived vesicle secretion pathway. Serial sectioning in the transverse plane (Figures 8C and 8D) revealed that COB was abundant in some sections and not present in others, consistent with COB's distribution to transverse bands seen in immunofluorescence preparations (Figures 7E and 7F). In contrast with its abundance at the outer epidermal cell wall, COB was present at lower abundance in other walls, particularly the radial (Figure 8E) and even the inner longitudinal (Figures 7H and 8F) walls of the epidermis. Consistent with the rapid upregulation at the onset of elongation, in the root division zone COB was not detected in the walls and was only occasionally detected close to the Golgi, in cells near the onset of the elongation zone (data not shown). In the wall sections examined, COB was present on and at various distances from the plasma membrane (Figures 8A, 8D, and 8G), suggesting that it exists in both a GPI-anchored, plasma membrane–associated form and a cleaved form. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown as described previously (CITATION). All of the mutant lines used in this work are in the Columbia background. The SAIL line 735D10 (Syngenta, San Diego, CA), which contains a T-DNA insertion in the fifth exon of the COB gene, was backcrossed twice, propagated as a heterozygote, and renamed cob-4. To generate the PCOB:GUS reporter construct, a −2509 to +45 fragment containing the entire 5′ flanking region of COB and a 1443-bp fragment of the 3′ end of COB were amplified by PCR from genomic DNA using the respective primer pairs 5′-TTACTAAAACAGCACTAGCCAGC-3′/5′-CGGATCCCGATGCCATGGACAATTTGGAGACGATGGAGGTGG-3′ and 5′-ATTTGCGGCCGCTCGGATTTACGGTTTTGCCACTGG-3′/5′-ACGGATGGAAATTGGACTGAAATGC-3′, subcloned as HindIII/BamHI and NotI fragments, respectively, and sequenced. The uidA gene was cloned in frame between the two COB genomic sequences as a NcoI/BamHI fragment. The entire construct was then excised as a SacI fragment and cloned into the plant transformation vector pBIN19. The resulting vector was transformed into the Arabidopsis accession Col-0 by the floral-dipping method (CITATION). GUS staining was performed on T2 plants as described by CITATION. For scanning electron microscopy, specimens were either fixed in 2.5% glutaraldehyde, dehydrated through an ethanol series, and critical point dried in liquid CO2 or cryofixed in an Oxford CT1500 cryochamber (Oxford Instruments, Oxon, UK). After sputter coating with gold, samples were visualized with an Amray FE-1850 scanning electron microscope (KLA-Tencor, San Jose, CA) operated at 5 kV. For sectioning, fixed plantlets and roots were embedded in Historesin (Technovit 7100; Kulzer, Wehrheim, Germany) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Three-micrometer plastic sections were stained with toluidine blue (0.5% [w/v] in 0.1 M phosphate buffer, pH 7.2) to visualize the cell wall. Light micrographs were taken on a DMRXA2 microscope (Leica, Wetzlar, Germany). Anti-COB polyclonal IgY antibodies were produced by GenWay Biotech (San Diego, CA) against amino acids 147 to 297. Antibodies were raised in Rhode Island Red hens, and total IgY was isolated from egg yolk by standard methods. COB-specific IgY was further purified through affinity chromatography using recombinant COB fusion protein produced in Escherichia coli as ligand. Whole-mount immunolocalizations were performed as described by CITATION except that incubations were done either overnight at 4°C or for 3 h at room temperature. For oryzalin and brefeldin A treatments, seedlings were incubated in 1 mL of liquid growth medium (0.5× MS medium [Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO] and 1% sucrose, pH 5.7) containing 10 μM oryzalin (100 mM stock in ethanol; Duchefa, Haarlem, The Netherlands) or 50 μM brefeldin A (100 mM stock in DMSO; Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) and equal amounts of solvent for control. Washing was done twice for 10 min, and incubation was stopped by fixation. Antibodies used and final concentrations (v/v) were as follows: affinity-purified anti-COB IgY antibodies, 1:200; affinity-purified rabbit anti-chicken IgY Alexa Fluor 647–conjugated secondary antibodies (Genway Biotech, San Diego, CA), 1:200; anti-α-tubulin antibodies (Sigma-Aldrich), 1:1000; and fluorescein isothiocyanate–conjugated anti-mouse IgG secondary antibodies (1:200). Fluorescent images were collected on a confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM 510 system; Carl Zeiss MicroImaging, Jena, Germany). Each image shown represents either a single focal plan or a projection of individual images taken as a Z-series. Images acquired using Zeiss software were imported into Adobe Photoshop (Mountain View, CA) for cropping, contrast adjustment, and assembly. Total membrane isolation and Triton X-114 phase separation were performed as described by CITATION. Dextran-PEG partitioning was performed as described by CITATION. For PI-PLC treatment, the washed Triton X-114 phase was split into two aliquots. PI-PLC (Sigma-Aldrich) was added to one aliquot, and both were incubated at 37°C for 1 h (with intermittent mixing). BSA was added as carrier protein to the aqueous phases. Proteins were precipitated using cold acetone and subsequently subjected to SDS-PAGE and protein gel blot analysis. Anti-cytochrome b 5 and anti-ATPase antibodies were a kind gift of J. Napier (Rothamsted Research, Harpenden, UK) and M. Boutry (Université Catholique de Louvain, Louvain-La-Neuve, Belgium), respectively. To determine whether COB was N-glycosylated, roots of 1-week-old seedlings were ground and microsomes were prepared as described by CITATION, then they were resuspended in the denaturing buffer supplied with the peptide N-glycosidase F and treated according to the manufacturer's instructions (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA). Birefringent retardation of root cell walls was measured on 2-μm longitudinal plastic sections using a polarized-light microscope (Jenapol; Zeiss) equipped for circularly polarized-light quantitative digital imaging (LC Pol Scope; Cambridge Research Instruments, Cambridge, UK). Longitudinal cell walls were assayed that were parallel to the plane of the section in areas devoid of any visible heterogeneity. Retardance and optical azimuth were calculated from the intensity measurements by the Pol Scope software, which implements the algorithm described by CITATION. We did not observe a significant difference in retardance between the epidermis and the cortex layer for the three genotypes tested; data from both cell types were combined to generate the graphs. For each time point, five root longitudinal sections were examined and at least three measurements were performed per section and root zone. Samples were prepared and longitudinal walls were analyzed by FESEM as described by CITATION using a Hitachi 4500 field emission scanning electron microscope (Tokyo, Japan). For each genotype, three roots and at least three different cells for each root zone were analyzed. Roots from wild-type (Col-0) seedlings grown, as described by CITATION, for 5 d under constant light (80 μmol·m−2·s−1) at 21°C were cut into 1.5-mm lengths with a razor blade while submerged in hexadecane. Cut root tissue was transferred into flat specimen holders filled with hexadecane and cryofixed in a high-pressure freezing unit (Bal-Tech HPM010; Balzers, Lichtenstein). For LR White (London Resin Company, London, UK) embedding, frozen samples were put into cryogenic vials containing freeze substitution media (0.25% glutaraldehyde and 0.1% uranyl acetate in acetone) and placed into a dry ice–acetone bath as described (CITATION). This bath was placed at −20°C for 7 d and warmed to 4°C for 4 h, then brought to room temperature. The tissue was rinsed with fresh acetone and infiltrated with LR White embedding resin according to the following schedule: drop by drop for 3 d; then 50, 75, and 85% (v/v) LR White:acetone, each step for 12 h; and finally 100% LR White resin for 36 h with resin exchanged every 12 h. Polymerization was achieved at 60°C for 24 h. Thin sections (<70 nm) were cut with an Ultracut E ultramicrotome (Leica) and mounted on Formvar-coated 200-mesh nickel grids. For immunogold labeling, all incubations of sections were performed by placing the grids on droplets of solution section-side-down at room temperature. Thin sections mounted on grids were incubated for 10 min on the droplets of 10 mM NH4Cl in TBS (10 mM Tris and 0.25 M NaCl, pH 7) to block free aldehydes. Nonspecific antibody binding sites on the sections were blocked by incubating the sections for 30 min in 5% nonfat dried milk in TBS. The sections were then incubated for 1 h with chicken anti-COB antibody diluted 1:100 in 0.5% nonfat dried milk in TBS. After rinsing in TBS five times, the sections were incubated for 1 h with goat anti-chicken IgG conjugated to 10-nm colloidal gold (Aurion, Wageningen, The Netherlands) diluted 1:100 in 0.5% nonfat dried milk in TBS. The sections were then rinsed in TBS five times, in distilled water twice, and air dried. Grids were stained in 2% aqueous uranyl acetate for 30 min and in lead citrate for 5 min and then observed using a Hitachi H7600 transmission electron microscope.
