!~ABS~! Background: Crossovers are essential for the completion of meiosis. Recently, two pathways of crossover formation have been identified on the basis of distinct genetic controls. In one pathway, crossover inhibits the occurrence of another such event in a distance-dependent manner. This phenomenon is known as interference. The second kind of crossover is insensitive to interference. The two pathways function independently in budding yeast. Only interference-insensitive crossovers occur in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. In contrast, only interference-sensitive crossovers occur in Caenorabditis elegans. The situation in mammals and plants remains unclear. Mer3 is one of the genes shown to be required for the formation of interference-sensitive crossovers in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Results: To unravel the crossover status in the plant Arabidopsis thaliana, we investigated the role of the A. thaliana MER3 gene through the characterization of a series of allelic mutants. All mer3 mutants showed low levels of fertility and a significant decrease (about 75%) but not a total disappearance of meiotic crossovers, with the number of recombination events initiated in the mutants being similar to that in the wild-type. Genetic analyses showed that the residual crossovers in mer3 mutants did not display interference in one set of adjacent intervals. Conclusions: Mutation in MER3 in Arabidopsis appeared to be specific to recombination events resulting in interference-sensitive crossovers. Thus, MER3 function is conserved from yeast to plants and may exist in other metazoans. Arabidopsis therefore has at least two pathways for crossover formation, one giving rise to interference-sensitive crossover and the other to independently distributed crossovers.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis gene was annotated in the Arabidopsis Information Resource database (http://www.arabidopsis.org/) as a putative Mer3 homolog. Indeed, in the output of a BLASTP analysis on a very large nonredundant (nr) database with S. cerevisiae Mer3 as the query, the first nonfungal hit was Arabidopsis MER3. By means of RT-PCR on young buds, we redefined the cDNA, which differed markedly from the predicted cDNA in databases (GenBank accession number AY822649; see CITATION). The MER3 gene consists of 27 exons, encoding a 3339 bp cDNA. By means of RT-PCR, we showed that MER3 is expressed mainly in buds at a stage where male meiosis occurs (see CITATION available with this article online). The corresponding 1133-amino acid protein is very similar to the S. cerevisiae Mer3 protein, with highly conserved patches distributed throughout the molecule (252/798 residues identical [31%], 407/798 residues positive [51%]; CITATION ). Several of the most highly conserved sequence patches corresponded to the seven motifs characteristic of the DExH-box typical of the DNA/RNA helicase and already detected in the ScMer3 protein [CITATION] (CITATION). We investigated MER3 gene function in plants by searching for mutants in public T-DNA insertion line collections. We isolated four mutations from the SALK collections [CITATION] that had the MER3 gene disrupted at different positions and named them mer3-1 to mer3-4. For each of these mutations, we amplified and sequenced the genomic DNA sequences flanking the T-DNA sequences to determine the precise structure of the mutation. In mer3-1 (Salk_045941) and mer3-4 (Salk_149121), the T-DNA is inserted into exons XIV and IX, respectively, at bases 1391 and 824 in the cDNA. In mer3-2 (Salk_091560) and mer3-3 (Salk_011457), the T-DNA is inserted into introns XIV and XXIV, disrupting the cDNA sequence at positions 1458 and 3047, respectively. The corresponding disruption positions for the MER3 protein are presented in CITATION. A truncated MER3 protein may be produced from the mer3 alleles (CITATION). In this case, the corresponding MER3 protein would be 463 aa, 486 aa, 1015 aa, and 273 aa long for mer3-1 to mer3-4, respectively (CITATION). A low-fertility phenotype segregated in the progeny of self-fertilized plants heterozygous for each mer3 mutation. Homozygotes for the four alleles showed no developmental defect other than short fruits containing only about 13% the number of seeds found in the wild-type (CITATION and CITATION ). This phenotype segregated in a 3:1 ratio in the progeny of heterozygous plants, indicating that the mutations were expressed sporophytically, monogenic, and recessive. A complementation test was performed by crossing heterozygous mer3-1 plants with mer3-2 and mer3-3 plants. The F1 progenies of these crosses displayed segregation for the low-fertility phenotype, with a 3:1 ratio, demonstrating the allelic nature of these mutations. All the corresponding lines displayed qualitatively and quantitatively identical phenotypes (see below). Given this result, together with the position of the mer3-4 mutation upstream from three highly conserved helicase domains, each insertion is likely to correspond to a null mutation. We found that in all mer3 mutant lines, a large proportion of pollen grains were dead (CITATION). Female gametogenis was also affected because about 80% (CITATION) of embryo sacs had degenerated entirely or were abnormal in shape (CITATION). Gametophyte degeneration is typically observed in plant meiotic mutants because of the production of aneuploid spores (see [CITATION] as an example). We then investigated the behavior of meiotic chromosomes in mer3 mutants and in the wild-type (CITATION ). In the wild-type, the ten chromosomes appeared as threads at leptotene (CITATIONA), underwent synapsis at zygotene, and were fully synapsed, along the synaptonemal complex (SC), at pachytene (CITATIONB). After the disappearance of the SC at diplotene (CITATIONC), the resulting five bivalents condensed, revealing the presence of chiasmata (CITATIOND). The bivalents organized on the metaphase I plate (CITATIONE) segregated out into homologs on the two metaphase II plates (CITATIONF). The second round of segregation led to the formation of four sets of five chromatids (CITATIONG), which decondensed to form the spore nuclei (CITATIONH). The various mer3 alleles conferred identical phenotypes. The first steps of prophase appeared similar to those in the wild-type (compare CITATIONA, 3B, and 3C to CITATIONA, 2B, and 2C), including apparent full synapsis at pachytene (CITATIONB). The only defect detected at this stage was that the chromatin was slightly fluffy in appearance. The first defects appeared at diakinesis, with the appearance of a mixture of univalents and bivalents instead of the usual five bivalents, demonstrating the shortage of chiasmata (CITATIOND). At metaphase I (CITATIONE and 3F), the bivalents (a and b) aligned, whereas the univalents (u) segregated randomly. In rare cases, some univalents aligned at metaphase I, presenting an abnormal bipolar orientation (arrow in CITATIONG). The results of anaphase I reflected the pattern observed at metaphase I, with an uneven distribution of univalents (CITATIONH) and the rare separation of chromatids (arrows in CITATIONI). These defects led to the formation of unbalanced spores (CITATIONJ). Thus, the only defect observed in mer3 mutants was a large decrease in the number of chiasmata—the cytological counterpart of CO—and its consequences in terms of chromosome segregation. The defects in female meiosis observed in mer3 plants were similar to those observed in male meiosis with normal pachytene and univalents detected at diakinesis and metaphase I (CITATION). We quantified the decrease in chiasma frequency by studying the shape of metaphase I bivalents, as described by [CITATION]. Bivalents with a crossover (CO) on each arm appear as a “ring” (“a” in CITATIONE and CITATIONF), whereas bivalents with a CO on only one arm appear as a “rod” (“b” in CITATIONE, CITATIONE, and CITATIONF). For example, the cells in CITATIONE, CITATIONE, and CITATIONF display nine, two, and three COs, respectively. Multiple COs on one arm are detected as a “ball” at the position of the chiasmata. This technique slightly underestimates chiasma frequency as multiple COs may be missed [CITATION]. We found the chiasma frequency in the wild-type (Columbia) to be 9.2 per cell, which is very similar to that reported by Sanchez-Moran et al. [CITATION] (9.1 per cell). Chiasma frequency ranged from 7 to 11 and, therefore, clearly did not follow a Poisson distribution (χ[3] 2 = 83; p < 0.001). This very low level of variation about the mean reflects the tight control of COs widely observed at meiosis. In contrast, CO frequency in mer3 mutants was 2.2 per cell, ranging from 0 to 7, which is consistent with a Poisson distribution (χ[6] 2 = 6.58; p > 0.1), reflecting a random distribution of chiasmata among cells. No significant difference was observed between the mutant mer3 alleles (CITATION) (χ[9] 2 = 6.58; p > 0.1). Thus, CO is not abolished by mer3 mutations but occurs much less frequently in mer3 mutants than in the wild-type. ASY1 is a meiosis-specific protein intimately associated with the chromosome axes during prophase I [CITATION]. We used ASY1 distribution as a marker of meiosis progression. ASY1 behaved similarly in wild-type and mer3-1 mutant plants. RAD51 has been shown to be involved in meiotic DSB repair and to form foci at sites of DNA recombination repair [CITATION]. We immunolocalized the RAD51 protein on chromosome spreads. The results for the wild-type were very similar to those previously obtained with another polyclonal anti-RAD51 antibody in Arabidopsis [CITATION]. Numerous foci appeared at leptotene, probably corresponding to sites at which DSB were being initiated (CITATIONA). The number of foci decreased during prophase, with only a few remaining at pachytene, probably indicating the progression of recombination (CITATIONB). RAD51 behavior was unaffected in mer3-1: large numbers of foci were observed at leptotene (CITATIONC) and a few at pachytene (CITATIOND and 4E). We quantified the number of RAD51 foci at leptotene in both wild-type and mutant and found 158 ± 34 and 153 ± 33, respectively (17 cells each). Even if these figures have to be regarded carefully because some spots could be hidden in the chromosome mass, it clearly appeared that the number of RAD51 foci was not significantly different between wild-type and mer3-1 mutant. Thus, the very low crossover frequency observed in mer3-1 was not correlated with a corresponding decrease in the number of RAD51 foci. We verified that mer3 mutation caused meiotic recombination defects by determining COs frequency in the offspring of the mer3-1 mutant and comparing it with that of the wild-type. We generated plant lines heterozygous for three linked markers in the wild-type and homozygous mer3 mutant backgrounds (see CITATION and CITATIONA). The first two of these markers confer resistance to the antibiotic hygromycin and the herbicide Basta. The recombination frequency between these two markers can be directly inferred from the frequency of Basta-sensitive ([BastaS]) among hygromycin-resistant ([HygroR]) plants (CITATIONB). In the wild-type, the Basta-sensitive plants frequency was 11.3%, corresponding to a recombination frequency (r) of 18.7%. The corresponding Basta-sensitive plants frequency in the mer3-1 mutant was significantly lower (7.6%; χ[1] 2 = 27; p < 0.001), corresponding to 12.2% of recombination. At this genomic interval, the observed level of recombination was thus reduced by 35% in mer3-1 (CITATIONB). The third marker—a polymorphic microsatellite (NGA280) linked to the gene conferring Basta resistance—defines a second genetic interval. Recombination frequency, scored by typing [BastaS] (and thus BastaS/BastaS) plants for their NGA280 marker genotype, was estimated at 19.8% for the wild-type and at 12.3% for mer3-1 plants (CITATIONC column “non selected”). This difference was significant (χ[1] 2 = 8.3; p < 0.005), confirming that the mer3-1 mutation caused a decrease of about 38% in the observed recombination frequency. We tested for interference by measuring the rate of recombination at the Basta/NGA280 interval as described above, by genotyping Basta-sensitive plants for NGA280. However, in this case, we first selected plants on hygromycin to ensure that at least one of their two chromatids was recombinant at the hygromycin/Basta interval. For the wild-type, this initial selection resulted in a lower rate of recombination at the Basta/NGA280 interval, from the previously measured 19.8% to 11.4% (CITATIONC column [HygroR], χ[1] 2 = 22; p < 0.001). This demonstrates that in the wild-type, the COs occurring in the hygromycin/Basta interval interfered strongly with the formation of COs in the adjacent Basta/NGA interval. In the mer3-1 mutant, the Basta/NGA280 recombination frequency, measured in [HygroR] plants was 13.6%, which is not significantly different from the frequency previously estimated at the same interval in nonselected plants (CITATIONC, χ[1] 2 = 0,47; p > 0.1). Thus, COs occurring in these adjacent intervals did not interfere with each other in mer3-1.
!~MM~! The wild-type used in this study was A. thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0). The mer3 mutants were obtained from the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory (SIGnAL) collection of T-DNA mutants (ecotype Columbia) [CITATION]. Sequence analyses were performed with DNAssist software (http://www.dnassist.org/). We searched for amino-acid sequence similarity at the NCBI web site (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/) [CITATION] and at TAIR (http://www.arabidopsis.org/Blast/) web site with BLOSUM45 matrix and default parameters. Total RNA was prepared from wild-type prebolting buds with the RNAEasy Plant Miniprep kit (Qiagen) and reverse transcription was performed with the SMART PCR cDNA Kit (Clontech) according to the manufacturer’s protocols. Four overlapping MER3 transcript fragments, covering the whole cDNA sequence, were amplified after two rounds of PCR on cDNA with the following primers: mer37 (5′- GTCATTCTTGGCAGCAGC-3′) and mer316 (5′-GTAACTTCCTCACACGTT-3′) and then mer37 and mer317 (5′-ATGTCGGATTGGATTTATGT-3′); mer34 (5′-CGTCTGAGCTGTATCCAAGAT-3′) and mer39 (5′-CAAATTAGCATTGGTCATGG-3′) and then mer34 and mer38 (5′-TTTCTTCAGCGATATTGCG-3′); mer310 (5′-GCTGCTGCCAAGAATGAC-3′) and mer311 (5′-CATCATCGATGAGCTTGAAAC-3′) and then mer33 (5′- CGGAAGGCTGATGACAAAG-3′) and mer311; mer32 (5′-TGCAGTTCTTGTTTTGAAGAAAC-3′) and N511457U (5′- GTTTCAAGCTCATCGATGATG-3′) twice. In-frame STOP codons are present at both ends of the obtained cDNA, indicating that the coding sequence is complete. The following primer combinations were used to amplify the Arabidopsis genomic DNA flanking the T-DNA insertions. mer3-1 (Salk_045941) and mer3-2 (Salk_091560): left border (LB) with LBsalk1 (5′-CATCAAACAGGATTTTCGCC-3′)/N545941U (5′-AAGGCAAAGCTCTGGTAGGAC-3′), right border (RB) with RBsalk1 (5′-TCAGAGCAGCCGATTGTC-3′)/N545941L (5′-GTCTTTGAGTAGATAGCCCAT-3′), and wild-type allele (wta) with N545941U/N545941L. mer3-3 (Salk_011457): LB with LBsalk1/N511457U (5′-GTTTCAAGCTCATCGATGATG-3′) and wta with N511457U/mer32 (5′-TGCAGTTCTTGTTTTGAAGAAAC-3′). mer3-4 (Salk_149121): LB with LBsalk1/N649121U (5′-GATTCCATGGGCAAGAGTGT-3′), RB with RBsalk1/N649121L (5′-TTGGCGAAGAAATGAGACCT-3′), and wta with N649121U/N649121L. We assessed the viability of mature pollen grains as described [CITATION]. Developing ovules were observed as described [CITATION]. The development of male meiocytes was observed as described [CITATION]. DAPI staining of male meiotic chromosomes was performed as described [CITATION]. Female meiotic chromosomes were observed as described [CITATION]. Chromosome spreads were prepared and immunofluorescence microscopy performed as described [CITATION] with a Leica DMRXA2 fluorescence microscope. Images were captured with a coolSNAP camera (Roper Scientific) driven by Openlab software (Improvision). All images were then processed with Adobe Photoshop 6.0 to improve image quality. The ASY1 polyclonal antibody used in this study was described by Armstrong et al. [CITATION] and was used at a working dilution of 1:500. Two RAD51 antibodies were used with similar results. One was described in [CITATION]. It was used at a dilution of 1:10. The second RAD51 antibody was obtained by immunizing a rabbit with a synthetic peptide conjugated with KLH (Eurogentec). The synthetic peptide consisted of 18 amino acid residues, corresponding to positions 1 to 18 of the Arabidopsis RAD51 protein (MTTMEQRRNQNAVQQQDD). Rabbit anti-AtRAD51 antibodies were purified with a modified version of the procedure described by Lin et al. [CITATION] (see CITATION). Purified anti-AtRAD51 antibodies recognized a recombinant AtRAD51 protein, but not a recombinant AtDMC1 protein, on Western blots. The working dilution of the purified serum for cytology was 1:20. We estimated genetic recombination and interference by generating plant lines heterozygous for three linked markers and either wild-type or homozygous mutant for mer3-1. Two transgenic A. thaliana (L.) Heyn lines, in ecotype Wassilevskija (WS), were used to generate the test line. The first carried the selection marker bar, conferring phosphinothricin (Basta) resistance [CITATION] at position 24,085 kb (At1g66860). The second carried the selection marker hpt, conferring hygromycin resistance [CITATION] at position 28,309 kb (At1g77890). These lines were crossed to obtain the test line RECI, which is homozygous for both markers. RECI was crossed with a MER3/mer3-1 plant, and plants with mer3-1/mer3-1 or MER3/MER3 genotypes and hemizygous for both the bar and hpt genes and heterozygous for the microsatellite NGA280 (position 20,877 kb on chromosome I) were selected in the F2. The two NGA 280 alleles were supplied by the RECI line (WS) and the mer3-1 line (Col0). The seeds of six mer3/mer3 and five MER3/MER3 plants, obtained by selffertilization, were divided into two samples. The first was grown in vitro, with hygromycin selection, transferred in soil, and subjected to Basta selection to measure the frequency (f) of Basta-sensitive plants among hygromycin-resistant plants. We decided to consider this frequency rather than the proportion of Basta-sensitive hygromycin-resistant plants among the total population to avoid the possible confusion between hygromycin-sensitive and unhealthy plants that could impair the results. According to the segregation table of this cross (CITATION ), the recombination frequency between bar and hpt is correlated to f by the formulae f = [½r(1 − r) + ¼r2] / ¾ that is simplified to: r2 − 2r + 3f = 0 and is solved to r (%) = 100 × ( 1 − 1 − 3 f ) . The second lot of seeds was grown in vitro without selection, transferred to soil, and subjected to Basta selection. In both cases, Basta-sensitive plants were collected and genotyped for the NGA280 marker. The recombination frequency between bar and NGA280 was deduced directly from the frequency of the NGA280col allele in Basta-sensitive plants.
