!~ABS~! Plant isoprenoids are synthesized via two independent pathways, the cytosolic mevalonate (MVA) pathway and the plastid nonmevalonate pathway. The Escherichia coli IspH (LytB) protein is involved in the last step of the nonmevalonate pathway. We have isolated an Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ispH null mutant that has an albino phenotype and have generated Arabidopsis transgenic lines showing various albino patterns caused by IspH transgene-induced gene silencing. The initiation of albino phenotypes rendered by IspH gene silencing can arise independently from multiple sites of the same plant. After a spontaneous initiation, the albino phenotype is systemically spread toward younger tissues along the source-to-sink flow relative to the initiation site. The development of chloroplasts is severely impaired in the IspH-deficient albino tissues. Instead of thylakoids, mutant chloroplasts are filled with vesicles. Immunoblot analysis reveals that Arabidopsis IspH is a chloroplast stromal protein. Expression of Arabidopsis IspH complements the lethal phenotype of an E. coli ispH mutant. In 2-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings, the expression of 1-deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate synthase (DXS), 1-deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate reductoisomerase (DXR), IspD, IspE, IspF, and IspG genes is induced by light, whereas the expression of the IspH gene is constitutive. The addition of 3% sucrose in the media slightly increased levels of DXS, DXR, IspD, IspE, and IspF mRNA in the dark. In a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod, the accumulation of the IspH transcript oscillates with the highest levels detected in the early light period (2–6 h) and the late dark period (4–6 h). The expression patterns of DXS and IspG are similar to that of IspH, indicating that these genes are coordinately regulated in Arabidopsis when grown in a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod.
!~RES~! We isolated the albino ispH-1 mutant by screening a collection of Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion lines. Genetic analysis and thermal asymmetric interlaced-PCR revealed that the albino line 3a234 contains two copies of T-DNA in two different loci, IspH and At3g46440, which were further segregated as two different lines. Homozygous ispH-1 plants are albino and progeny from a self-pollinated heterozygous plant segregate green and albino plants in a 3:1 ratio on a nonselective medium, i.e. the albino phenotype is inherited as a recessive mutation (Fig. 2A). The ispH-1 mutant seedlings exhibit a purple-tinted phenotype superimposed on the albino phenotype when grown on the medium containing Suc (Fig. 2A). The purple coloration begins to fade about 1 week after germination on this medium. The ispH-1 albino plant can develop a normal root system, rosette leaves, an inflorescence with cauline leaves, and flower-like structures that never mature into normal flowers when grown on tissue culture medium (Fig. 2B). [[FIGURE]] To study the effect of the ispH-1 mutation on chloroplast development, leaf sections of Arabidopsis wild-type and ispH-1 plants were examined by transmission electron microscopy. In contrast to the lens-shaped wild-type chloroplast (Fig. 2C), the ispH-1 mutant chloroplasts are usually round, oval, or irregularly shaped (Fig. 2D; data not shown). In addition, the mutant chloroplasts completely lack thylakoids and contain large vesicles (Fig. 2D). In ispH-1 mutants, total chlorophylls and carotenoids are less than 1% and 2%, respectively, of their amounts in the wild type (Table I). Photosynthetic pigment content of wild-type Arabidopsis and ispH-1 mutants Values shown are μg/g fresh weight ± se. Analysis of the flanking genomic DNA sequences revealed that the Arabidopsis ispH-1 mutant has a T-DNA insertion in the seventh exon of the IspH gene (Fig. 3A). Northern and immunoblot analyses showed that the IspH mRNA and protein were undetectable in the ispH-1 mutant (Fig. 3B). These results suggest that ispH-1 is a null mutant. In 6-week-old wild-type Arabidopsis plants, the IspH transcript was detected in all tissues analyzed (Fig. 3C). To prove that the defective ispH-1 locus is responsible for the albino phenotype, we restored the wild-type phenotype by introducing into the mutant a full-length IspH cDNA transcribed from a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. The phenotype of a representative complementation line is shown in Figure 3D. Genomic DNA-blot analysis was used to verify that the complemented plants contained a (homozygous) ispH-1 mutant allele and a 35S:IspH transgene (Fig. 3E). These results confirm that the albino phenotype is caused by disruption of the IspH gene. [[FIGURE]] Attempts to create Arabidopsis IspH overexpression lines resulted in some primary transformants showing pale green or various albino phenotypes (Fig. 4, A and B). In plants, some transgenes may cause a coordinated silencing of the transgene and homologous host genes (CITATION). It is possible that the IspH gene is silenced in the albino tissue. To test this, total RNA and protein extracted from green and albino tissues of the transgenic plants were examined by northern and immunoblot analysis. The steady-state levels of IspH mRNA and protein are higher in the transgenic green tissue than in the wild type, whereas the IspH mRNA and protein are not detectable in the albino tissue (Fig. 4, C and D). These results indicate that IspH is overexpressed in the green tissue and is silenced in the albino tissue of the same plant. [[FIGURE]] The visual albino phenotype that is a result of IspH gene silencing serves as a marker for observing the initiation and systemic spread of transgene-induced gene silencing in Arabidopsis. The initiation of IspH gene silencing is spontaneous and stochastic; it may arise at various developmental stages and several independent initiations may even occur in the same plant. For instance, the albino phenotype may appear independently in rosette leaves, stems, and siliques (Fig. 5A). After the initiation step, somehow the IspH gene-silencing signal(s) is systemically spread toward developing tissues so that younger tissues that develop above the initiation site will be affected (Fig. 5, A–C). Expanding cauline leaves, at the time of initiation, either are not or are only partially affected, leading to a phenotype where a green leaf and a partially green leaf are attached to an albino stem (Fig. 5D). Sometimes the apical region of a silenced inflorescence may remain green, which indicates that the IspH gene is not always silenced in the meristematic regions (Fig. 5, A, D, and L). In siliques, IspH gene silencing can be localized in the base, in the tip, in the middle, or at both ends independently and gradually spreads throughout the entire silique (Fig. 5, A, D, and E). The random initiation and systemic spread of the albino phenotype in siliques indicate that cells in developing siliques may not have a distinct source-to-sink status for silencing signals as in leaves or stems. In T3 homozygous lines, the mixed progeny of nonsilenced (green) and silenced plants with various albino patterns segregate randomly (Fig. 5F). [[FIGURE]] When the initiation of IspH gene silencing is localized in rosette leaves during the vegetative stage, leaves that have expanded before the initiation will not be affected (Fig. 5, G–I). If the initiation occurs in rosette leaves during the transition from vegetative to reproductive stage, the green inflorescence tip has a chance to develop flowers and siliques before the entire inflorescence becomes albino (Fig. 5, J–L). Neither initiation nor systemic spread of IspH gene silencing was observed in fully expanded rosette leaves. In a partially silenced rosette leaf, chloroplasts in the green cells accumulate more starch granules than the comparable wild type (Fig. 6, A and B), whereas in the IspH-silenced albino tissue, chloroplasts are highly vesiculated (Fig. 6C). Because the basal part of an expanding leaf is composed of younger tissues, it is possible that these vesicles are derived from undifferentiated chloroplasts. During the systemic spread of IspH gene silencing in a leaf, a narrow boundary line of pale green to pale yellow forms between the green and the albino tissue. Transmission electron microscopy reveals that various types of chloroplasts exist in this region (Fig. 6, D–I). Chloroplasts of pale green tissues close to the nonsilenced green part of the leaf have highly differentiated thylakoids, but most of the stroma lamellae are discontinuous and stacked thylakoids are thicker than the wild type (Fig. 6D). By contrast, chloroplasts of pale yellow tissues close to the albino part of the leaf have only a few differentiated thylakoids (Fig. 6, E and F), mixed vesicles and loosening thylakoids (Fig. 6G), small vesicles (Fig. 6H), or large vesicles (Fig. 6I). The IspH-silencing chloroplasts also contain densely stained globule (lipid-droplet) aggregates (Fig. 6, D, E, G, and I). Since the systemic spread of the albino phenotype starts from the initiation site toward developing tissues, these chloroplasts may represent a broad range of undifferentiated, partially differentiated, and fully differentiated chloroplasts that are affected by photooxidation caused by various levels of IspH gene silencing. The vesicular structures and densely stained globule aggregates observed in these chloroplasts may be derived from the precursor components or breakdown products of thylakoids. [[FIGURE]] Alignment of IspH amino acid sequences from plants (Arabidopsis and Adonis), cyanobacterium, and E. coli indicates that both plant IspH proteins have an extra N-terminal sequence with the features of a chloroplast transit peptide (data not shown; CITATION). Chloroplast fractionation and immunoblot analysis showed that the Arabidopsis IspH protein is associated with the soluble fraction (Fig. 7), which is indicative of localization in the stroma. Control assays were performed to detect the membrane-localized OE33 and light-harvesting complex (LHC)-II proteins and the soluble, stroma-localized small subunit of Rubisco (rbcS) in the same samples (Fig. 7). [[FIGURE]] To test whether the Arabidopsis IspH protein has similar enzymatic activity to its E. coli counterpart, we performed a complementation assay with an E. coli ispH mutant. In E. coli ispH mutant strain MG1655 ara<>ispH, the endogenous IspH gene was replaced by a kanamycin-resistant cassette and a single copy of IspH was present on the chromosome under the control of the PBAD promoter (CITATION). Because the IspH gene is essential for survival, the E. coli ispH mutant cannot grow in the absence of arabinose (Ara; Fig. 8, left). Growth of the E. coli MG1655 ara<>ispH mutant on the medium containing Glc was restored successfully by transformation of the pQE-AtIspH plasmid but not by the empty pQE-30 vector (Fig. 8, right). [[FIGURE]] It has been shown that expression of Arabidopsis DXS and DXR (IspC) genes is induced by light (CITATION; CITATION). We thus examined the effects of light/dark and Suc on the expression of Arabidopsis IspH and other nonMVA pathway genes. Two-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings grown under normal light conditions (16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle) were subsequently placed in continuous light or dark for 48 h. During the 48-h dark or light treatments, plants were grown in media containing 0% Suc, 3% Suc, or 3% mannitol. The nonmetabolizable sugar mannitol was included as an osmotic control. Total RNA extracted from these samples was used for northern-blot analysis to detect the steady-state mRNA levels of the nonMVA pathway genes. Compared to the dark treatments, light significantly increased the levels of DXS, DXR, IspD, IspE, IspF, and IspG mRNAs (Fig. 9). In the dark, the addition of 3% Suc in the media slightly increased the accumulation of DXS, DXR, IspD, IspE, and IspF transcripts (Fig. 9; compare 0% and 3% Suc in the dark). This Suc induction is not due to an osmotic change because the treatment with mannitol has no significant effect on levels of DXS, DXR, IspD, IspE, and IspF mRNAs (Fig. 9; compare 0% and 3% mannitol in the dark). In contrast to the rest of the nonMVA pathway genes, the steady-state levels of IspH mRNA are relatively constant in response to treatments with light/dark or Suc (Fig. 9). [[FIGURE]] To further investigate whether expression of the nonMVA pathway genes is coordinately regulated, we compared the day/night expression patterns of these genes in 13- and 14-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings (Fig. 10). Interestingly, several distinct diurnal expression patterns were observed in the Arabidopsis nonMVA pathway genes. The expression patterns of DXS, IspG, and IspH are similar during the 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle. Peak levels of DXS, IspG, and IspH mRNA were detected in the early period of the light cycle (2–6 h in the light) and in the late period of the dark cycle (6–8 h in the dark). An additional peak appeared at the end of the light cycle (16 h), which is more evident in relative mRNA levels of DXS and IspG and less obvious in that of IspH (Fig. 10B). Oscillations in DXR, IspD, IspE, and IspF mRNA accumulation also occurred during the light/dark cycle. In contrast to DXS, IspG, and IspH, peak levels of IspD mRNA appeared in the late period of the light cycle (12–16 h). The highest levels of DXR, IspE, and IspF mRNA were also detected in the late period (14 h) of the light cycle. An additional peak in the early period (2–6 h) of the light cycle is evident in the relative mRNA levels of IspE and less obvious in those of DXR and IspF. Interestingly, the expression of all nonMVA pathway genes is significantly repressed during the transition from light to dark (Fig. 10; compare light 16 h to dark 2 h in each cycle). The same RNA samples were used to detect the light/dark expression patterns of Arabidopsis ASN1 (encoding Asn synthetase) and rbcS (encoding Rubisco small subunit) as controls. The expression of Arabidopsis ASN1 is induced by dark and repressed by light (CITATION). During a normal 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle, peak levels of ASN1 mRNA appear in the middle of the light cycle and in the dark cycle (CITATION). The expression of Arabidopsis rbcS is induced by light (CITATION) and oscillates during a light/dark cycle (CITATION). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The nonMVA or MVA-independent pathway has also been called the DXP pathway or the MEP pathway in the literature (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The nonMVA pathway enzymes are DXS; DXR or IspC; IspD (YgbP), CMS; IspE (YchB), CMK; IspF (YgbB), MCS; IspG (GcpE), HDS; IspH (LytB), HDR or IPP/DMAPP synthase (IDS). Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia-0) was grown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog plates (Murashige and Skoog salts [GIBCO/BRL, Cleveland], pH adjusted to 5.7 with 1 n KOH, 0.8% [w/v] phytoagar) containing 2% Suc, or in soil in the greenhouse on a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle at 23°C. For experiments in which plants were transferred to 0% Suc, 3% Suc, or 3% mannitol (Fig. 9), seeds were sown on 1.5- × 8-cm nylon nets with 250-μm mesh size (Tetko, Elmsford, NY; catalog no. 3–250/50) placed on the surface of the media. For transfer to new media, the nylon nets were lifted, and the plants were transferred to fresh Murashige and Skoog media containing the indicated supplementations. Determination of total chlorophyll and carotenoids in three independent samples of 2-week-old Arabidopsis wild-type and ispH-1 seedlings grown in tissue culture was conducted as described (CITATION). A binary vector pBI121 with a kanamycin-selectable marker was transformed into Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia-0 to generate a collection of approximately 4,000 T-DNA lines. T2 seeds of each independent T-DNA line were used to screen for albino mutants. Thermal asymmetric interlaced-PCR was used to determine the T-DNA flanking genomic sequences of these mutants (CITATION). In mutant line 3a234 (ispH-1), the albino phenotype cosegregates with a T-DNA insertion in the IspH locus. Total RNA from 2-week-old Arabidopsis was used for reverse transcription-PCR (SuperScriptII reverse transcriptase kit; Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA), and primers 5′-GTGCGTTTCTCTCGAACTCT-3′ and 5′-GGTAAGAACATTAAGTGGAG-3′ were used to amplify a full-length IspH cDNA. The PCR product was cloned into pCR2.1-TOPO (Invitrogen) and provided for sequencing. The Arabidopsis IspH cDNA sequence and the deduced amino acid sequence were deposited in GenBank (AY168881). The full-length IspH cDNA driven by a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter in the sense orientation was subcloned into a plant expression vector pSMAB704 containing the basta resistance (BAR) selectable marker and transformed by floral dip (CITATION) into ispH-1 heterozygous (±) plants, for complementation testing, or into wild-type Arabidopsis plants for overexpression studies. In the complementation test, genomic DNA extracted from green BARR primary transformants was used to determine the genotype of the IspH locus (± or −/−) by genomic Southern analysis. Two of the 16 green BARR primary transformants tested were ispH (−/−) homozygous. In the T2 generation, more than 100 seeds from each of the 16 lines were germinated on a BAR selective medium and all BARR seedlings were green, an indication that the 35S:IspH transgene complements the albino phenotype in all 16 lines. Two ispH (−/−) homozygous lines (confirmed by genomic Southern analysis) were carried to T3 and were homozygous for the 35S:IspH transgene. Progeny of these two lines are all green when grown on regular Murashige and Skoog medium or on a selective medium containing kanamycin or phosphinothricin. In the overexpression experiment, 186 BARR primary transformants were obtained. Sixty-three of the 186 lines showed IspH gene silencing as indicated by pale green or various albino patterns. Of the 63 IspH-silencing plants, 30 died without setting seeds. Arabidopsis total RNA was isolated using a phenol extraction protocol (CITATION). For detection of IspH mRNA, a gene-specific digoxigenin (DIG)-labeled single-stranded DNA probe was generated by PCR using primers 5′-GTCGTGGAAGATGCTTTGGT-3′ and 5′-GGTAAGAACATTAAGTGGAG-3′ (CITATION). Primers 5′-GACAGACTGAGAGCTCTTTC-3′ and 5′-ACAGGTATCGACAATGATCC-3′ were used for making a DIG-labeled single-stranded DNA probe to detect the 18S rRNA. The following primers were used for making DIG-labeled gene-specific probes: DXS (U27099), 5′-TTGAGAGTAAGAATCTGTTG-3′, 5′-AGCTTATTGAAGATCACAAG-3′; DXR (AF148852), 5′-CTCTGATGATGACATTAAAC-3′, 5′-CAACCAATTCTTCATGCATG-3′; IspD (AF230737), 5′-ATGGCGATGCTTCAGACGAA-3′, 5′-TCATGAGTCCTCGCTCAAGA-3′; IspE (AF288615), 5′-ATGGCAACGGCTTCTCCTCC-3′, 5′-TCATTGGAAATCCATGCGAG-3′; IspF (AF321531), 5′-ATGGCTACTTCTTCTACTCA-3′, 5′-CTATTTCTTCATGAGGAGAA-3′; IspG (AY081261), 5′-ATGGCGACTGGAGTATTGCC-3′, 5′-CTACTCATCAGCCACGGGCG-3′; ASN1 (L29083), 5′-AACTCCGATAGCGGCTC-3′, 5′-CTCTATTTCCACAAGGCACC-3′; RBCS (X13611), 5′-GCTTCCCTTGTTCGGTTGCA-3′, 5′-CCGATAGAATATGTCTCGCA-3′. DIG probe labeling, prehybridization, hybridization, wash conditions, and detection were performed according to the Boehringer Mannheim Genius System User's Guide, version 3.0. All northern blots presented herein were repeated at least two times with comparable results. The leaf samples were fixed in 4% glutaraldehyde, 100 mm sodium cacodylate, pH 7.2, for 16 h at 4°C, and postfixed with 1% osmium tetroxide in the same buffer for 6 h at 4°C. The fixed samples were dehydrated through a series of alcohol solutions and embedded in Spurr resin. Ultrathin sections were cut on a Reichert Ultracut-S (Leica Microsystems, Bannockburn, IL) and stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate and viewed with a transmission electron microscope, JEOL 1200EX (JEOL USA, Peabody, MA). The Arabidopsis IspH cDNA was digested with SacI and BamHI and cloned into similarly cut pQE-30 (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) to express His-tagged IspH protein in Escherichia coli. The resulting clone, pQE-AtIspH, encodes a nearly complete mature Arabidopsis IspH protein missing the first 24 amino acid residues with a 6× His tag at the N terminus. Purification of the His-tagged IspH protein was performed according to The QIAexpressionist, fourth edition (Qiagen). Polyclonal antibodies were raised by immunization of a rabbit using the purified fusion protein (Cocalico Biologicals, Reamstown, PA). Total protein extraction, chloroplast isolation, and immunoblot analysis were performed as described (CITATION). Total proteins were extracted from 3-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings. Intact chloroplasts isolated from 3-week-old Arabidopsis leaves were lysed and separated by centrifugation into soluble (stroma) and insoluble (membranes) fractions. The ECL+ system was used for detection in the immunoblot analysis (Amersham, Piscataway, NJ). The E. coli ispH mutant strain MG1655 ara<>ispH was maintained on Luria-Bertani medium containing 50 μg/mL kanamycin and 0.2% (w/v) Ara (CITATION). The pQE-AtIspH plasmid was transformed into the E. coli ispH mutant and selected on Luria-Bertani plates containing 50 μg/mL kanamycin, 50 μg/mL ampicillin, 0.2% Glc, and 0.5 mm IPTG. The presence of the pQE-AtIspH plasmid in surviving colonies was verified. As a control, the empty pQE-30 vector was transformed into the E. coli ispH mutant and selected on Luria-Bertani plates containing 50 μg/mL kanamycin, 50 μg/mL ampicillin, and 0.2% Ara. The transformants containing the pQE-30 empty vector cannot grow on medium containing 0.2% Glc (Fig. 8, bottom right). Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession number AY168881.
