!~ABS~! In plant cells, unlike animal and yeast cells, endomembrane dynamics appear to depend more on actin filaments than on microtubules. However, the molecular mechanisms of endomembrane–actin filament interactions are unknown. In this study, we isolated and characterized an Arabidopsis thaliana mutant, katamari1 (kam1), which has a defect in the organization of endomembranes and actin filaments. The kam1 plants form abnormally large aggregates that consist of endoplasmic reticulum with actin filaments in the perinuclear region within the cells and are defective in normal cell elongation. Map-based cloning revealed that the KAM1 gene is allelic to the MUR3 gene. We demonstrate that the KAM1/MUR3 protein is a type II membrane protein composed of a short cytosolic N-terminal domain and a transmembrane domain followed by a large lumenal domain and is localized specifically on Golgi membranes. We further show that actin filaments interact with Golgi stacks via KAM1/MUR3 to maintain the proper organization of endomembranes. Our results provide functional evidence that KAM1/MUR3 is a novel component of the Golgi-mediated organization of actin functioning in proper endomembrane organization and cell elongation.
!~RES~! To isolate Arabidopsis mutants that have an abnormal endomembrane structure within the cells, we used a transgenic Arabidopsis, GFP-2sc, which expresses vacuole-targeted GFP-2SC. Previously, we reported the light-dependent disappearance of GFP fluorescence in the vacuoles (CITATION). Light-grown GFP-2sc does not exhibit fluoresced vacuoles but maintains GFP fluorescence in entire endomembranes, including ER network structures and dot-like structures of the Golgi complex (CITATION) (Figures 1A to 1G ; see Supplemental Video 1 online). In this study, all fluorescent images were taken from light-grown plants. [[FIGURE]] GFP-2sc seeds were mutagenized, and 669 M2 lines were obtained. Of ∼12,000 M2 seedlings examined with the fluorescence microscope, we isolated a mutant whose endomembrane formed large aggregates and designated the mutant kam1 (for katamari1), after the Japanese word for aggregate. The aggregates (∼10 μm) were found in most of the cells of cotyledons (Figure 1H), hypocotyls (Figure 1I), and flower stalks (Figure 1J); they were also found in some cells of siliques (Figure 1K), roots (Figure 1L), root hairs (Figure 1M), and trichomes (Figure 1N). A higher magnification of a fluorescent image showed that the aggregates were composed of many small particles (Figure 1H, inset). Small aggregates of endomembranes that moved on the ER network were also observed on the surface of leaf cells (see Supplemental Video 2 online). These observations imply that the endomembranes are fragmented and/or deformed. To identify the components of the aggregates, we visualized various organelles in leaf epidermal cells from 15-d-old seedlings of GFP-2sc (Figures 2A to 2E ) and kam1-1 (Figures 2F to 2J) by transient expression of monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP)–tagged marker proteins (CITATION), FM4-64 staining, and 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining. Most of the RFP-fluorescent ERs were completely merged with the GFP-fluorescent aggregates, causing the aggregates to become yellow fluorescent (Figure 2F). Some of the RFP-fluorescent Golgi stacks were engulfed in the aggregates (Figure 2G). Some of the RFP-fluorescent peroxisomes were detected as red fluorescent particles in the aggregates (Figure 2H). Most of the FM4-64–stained endosomes were detected as red fluorescent small particles and their assembly, which were found in the green fluorescent aggregates (Figure 2I). These results suggested that the ER is specifically aggregated, whereas the Golgi, peroxisomes, and endosomes are nonspecifically engulfed in the aggregates in kam1 cells. DAPI-stained nuclei were close to the GFP-fluorescent aggregates (Figure 2J), suggesting that the aggregates are located in the perinuclear region. [[FIGURE]] Electron microscopic analysis showed that the epidermal cells of wild-type roots were occupied by a large central vacuole surrounded by a cytosol (Figure 3A ). On the contrary, epidermal cells of kam1-1 roots had a cytoplasmic aggregate abnormally at the center of the cell (Figure 3B). Higher magnification (Figure 3C) revealed that the cytoplasmic aggregate contained many fragmented vacuoles and a nucleus. These results suggest that the aggregates, which are composed of various organelles, including nuclei, are found in cells of different organs in kam1-1. [[FIGURE]] To identify the KAM1 gene, we used a map-based cloning approach with codominant cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence markers (CITATION) and simple sequence length polymorphism markers (CITATION) and found that KAM1 is located on chromosome 2 between markers PHYB and mi421. Further mapping using 450 F2 plants that exhibited the phenotype conferred by kam1 and DNA sequencing showed a single base pair mutation from C to T in the At2g20370 gene of kam1-1, which might cause a nonsense mutation from CAA (Gln-62) to TAA (stop codon) (Figure 4A ). [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the mutation in the At2g20370 gene is responsible for the phenotype conferred by kam1, we analyzed knockout mutants of the At2g20370 gene from the Salk T-DNA insertion line collections. We isolated two lines in which T-DNA was inserted into the At2g20370 coding region and named these mutants (salk_127057 and salk_141953) kam1-2 and kam1-3, respectively (Figure 4A). To visualize the endomembranes, a vacuole-targeted GFP, SP-GFP-2SC, was transiently expressed in epidermal cells of rosette leaves of each kam1 allele by particle bombardment. Figure 4B (top row) shows the aggregates of endomembranes in the kam1-2 and kam1-3 cells, as seen in the kam1-1 cells. In addition, we confirmed that constitutive expression of KAM1-mRFP (see Figure 6B) rescued the phenotype conferred by kam1 (data not shown). These results indicate that KAM1 is the At2g20370 gene. The KAM1 gene encodes a polypeptide sequence of 619 amino acids with a single putative transmembrane domain (Figure 4A). Immunoblot analysis with the anti-KAM1LD antibody showed that the 84-kD protein was accumulated in GFP-2sc but not in kam1-1, kam1-2, or kam1-3 (Figure 4C). KAM1 had an exostosin-like domain (CITATION) (Figure 4A, green box). Exostosins act as glycosyltransferases, which catalyze the formation of heparan sulfate, an extracellular glycosaminoglycan in animal cells (CITATION). The Arabidopsis mutants mur3-1 and mur3-2, which have a missense mutation in the At2g20370 gene, lacked glycosyltransferase activity (CITATION). To determine whether a deficiency of glycosyltransferase activity in KAM1 is responsible for the defect in endomembrane organization in kam1, we examined endomembrane organization in mur3-1 and mur3-2. The 84-kD immunopositive protein was accumulated in mur3-1 and mur3-2 as in GFP-2sc (Figure 4C). We expressed the vacuole-targeted GFP in mur3-1 and mur3-2 leaves and inspected the GFP-fluorescent endomembranes. Both mutants exhibited normal endomembrane organization in the cells, like wild-type plants (Figure 4B, bottom row). This result indicates that glycosyltransferase activity is not involved in the organization of the endomembranes. A hydropathy plot of KAM1/MUR3 (Figure 5A ) suggests that a transmembrane domain (bar) is located in the N-terminal region. KAM1/MUR3 was extracted from microsomes of wild-type seedlings by detergent (Triton X-100) but not by high salt (NaCl) or alkaline pH (pH 11) (Figure 5B). This profile was the same as that of an integral membrane protein, AtVSR (for Arabidopsis thaliana vacuolar sorting receptor) (CITATION). This result indicates that KAM1/MUR3 is an integral membrane protein. [[FIGURE]] To determine the membrane topology of KAM1/MUR3, we used transgenic Arabidopsis plants, which overexpress the KAM1-mRFP fusion in the kam1-1 background. The phenotypes conferred by kam1 were fully complemented in the transgenic plants, suggesting that KAM1-mRFP has activity for endomembrane organization, like endogenous KAM1/MUR3. Microsomes isolated from the transgenic plants were incubated with proteinase K either in the presence or the absence of detergent. Subsequently, the sensitivity of KAM1/MUR3 was evaluated by immunoblot analysis with anti-KAM1LD antibody, which was raised against the C-terminal domain of KAM1/MUR3. KAM1-mRFP became sensitive to protease digestion only when the microsomes were solubilized with detergent (Figure 5C, lane 4), suggesting that the epitope is exposed to the lumen. These results, together with the hydropathy analysis, indicate that KAM1/MUR3 has a type II topology, with a short N terminus exposed to the cytosol, a single transmembrane-spanning domain, and a C terminus inside the lumen. In sucrose density gradient fractions of a homogenate of Arabidopsis seedlings, KAM1/MUR3 cosedimented with a Golgi marker, RGP1 (CITATION), but not with a prevacuolar compartment/trans-Golgi network marker, AtVSR, or a ER marker, BiP (Figure 6A ). This finding suggests that KAM1/MUR3 is localized on the Golgi stack. To visualize the intracellular localization of KAM1/MUR3, we constructed chimeric genes encoding modified mRFPs. KAM1-mRFP was composed of the full length of KAM1/MUR3 followed by mRFP, whereas KAM1ΔC-mRFP was composed of the C-terminal-truncated form of KAM1/MUR3 (120 amino acids) followed by mRFP (Figure 6B). Each fusion protein was transiently expressed in protoplasts prepared from Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells. These modified mRFPs were completely merged with a GFP-fluorescent Golgi marker (GFP-AVP2) (CITATION) (Figure 6C). These results indicate that KAM1/MUR3 localizes on the Golgi stacks and that its N-terminal portion (120 amino acids) is sufficient for Golgi targeting. [[FIGURE]] It is well known that the cytoskeleton is involved in the intracellular positioning and movement of organelles. To investigate how the cytoskeleton contributes to the maintenance of endomembranes, we examined the effect of cytoskeleton-disordering reagents on the endomembranes of GFP-2sc seedlings. Latrunculin B, which depolymerizes actin filaments, disordered the endomembranes in epidermal cells of cotyledons (Figures 7A and 7B ). The network structure of the cortical ER was completely destroyed, and blobs of the endomembranes were formed on the surface of latrunculin B–treated cells (Figure 7A). Aggregates of endomembranes were found in the perinuclear region of the treated cells (Figure 7B), as in kam1 cells. On the contrary, neither of two microtubule-disordering reagents (nocodazol and colchicine) had any effect on the structure of the endomembranes (Figures 7D and 7E). We also found that the latrunculin B–induced aggregates were perfectly colocalized with the mRFP-tagged ER marker (Figure 7C). These results suggest that intact actin filaments, but not microtubules, are necessary for the maintenance of endomembrane structures. [[FIGURE]] Treatment with the actin-depolymerizing reagent caused GFP-2sc cells to develop a kam1-like phenotype. This implies that actin is disorganized in the phenotype conferred by kam1. Staining with phalloidin revealed that some of actin filaments coaggregated with the endomembranes in kam1-1 cotyledon cells (Figure 8A , right panels, arrows), whereas no aggregates of actin were found in GFP-2sc cells (Figure 8A, left panels). To confirm the organization of actin filaments in living cells, we transiently expressed the ABD2-GFP construct, which encodes an actin binding domain of fimbrin protein followed by GFP (CITATION), in the wild type (Figure 8B, left panels) and kam1-2, which has no GFP (Figure 8B, right panels). The actin filaments were aggregated and the cortical network partially disappeared in kam1-2. However, a few intact actin filaments were still found in kam1 cells (Figures 8A and 8B, right panels), suggesting that the mutant phenotype is not completely equivalent to the result of actin depolymerization. [[FIGURE]] These results raise the possibility that KAM1/MUR3 interacts with actin and regulates the proper distribution of actin filaments in wild-type plants. To investigate this possibility, we immunoprecipitated detergent-solubilized extracts from Arabidopsis cultured cells with both anti-KAM1LD and anti-KAM1CT antibodies. The immunoprecipitates were subjected to immunoblot analysis with anti-KAM1LD or anti-actin antibodies. The results clearly show that KAM1/MUR3 coimmunoprecipitated with actin (Figure 8C). On the contrary, actin did not precipitate in the control experiments with each preimmune serum (Figure 8C) or anti-BiP and anti-AtVSR1 antibodies (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). This result suggests that KAM1/MUR3 interacts with actin within the cells. kam1-1 showed a dwarf phenotype at different developmental stages (Figure 9 ). The kam1-1 seedlings were significantly smaller than the GFP-2sc seedlings (Figure 9A). The kam1-1 plants had wrinkled leaves and short petioles (Figure 9B) and exhibited dwarf stature (Figure 9C). When grown in the dark, the length of the kam1-1 hypocotyl was only one-third that of the GFP-2sc hypocotyl (Figure 9D). These phenotypes were also observed in kam1-2 and kam1-3 plants but not in mur3-1 or mur3-2 plants (data not shown). The kam1-1 cells in hypocotyls were significantly smaller and fatter than GFP-2sc cells and exhibited abnormal shape (Figures 9E and 9F). On the contrary, there were no differences in the number of epidermal cells of hypocotyls between GFP-2sc and kam1 (data not shown). Therefore, the dwarf stature of kam1 is largely or exclusively attributable to a failure of individual cells to elongate rather than to a defect in cell division. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! We used wild-type plants of Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotypes Columbia and Landsberg erecta) and a transgenic plant of Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) that expresses SP-GFP-2SC, which is composed of a signal peptide (SP) from pumpkin (Cucurbita pepo) 2S albumin followed by GFP and the vacuole-targeting signal of the C-terminal 18-amino acid sequence from pumpkin 2S albumin (CITATION). We designated this transgenic plant GFP-2sc. We also used the Arabidopsis mutants mur3-1 and mur3-2 (CITATION). Information about T-DNA insertion mutants, salk_127057 (kam1-2) and salk_141953 (kam1-3), was obtained from the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory website (http://signal.salk.edu). All seeds were provided by the ABRC at Ohio State University. Surface-sterilized seeds were sown onto 0.5% Gellan Gum (Wako, Osaka, Japan) with MS medium (Wako) supplemented with B5 vitamins and 1% sucrose and were grown at 22°C under continuous light. Protoplasts were prepared from Arabidopsis cultured cells, which had been subcultured, and were incubated in medium containing MS salts, B5 vitamins, 1% (w/v) sucrose, and 0.4 M mannitol as described previously (CITATION). The mRFP1 gene was kindly provided by R.Y. Tsien of Howard Hughes Medical Institute (CITATION). We amplified mRFP with a specific primer harboring a XhoI site and a specific primer harboring a SacI site by PCR to produce pmRFP. The amplified DNA was inserted into the XhoI-SacI site of pBI221 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) to generate mRFP/pBI221. Based on mRFP/pBI221, we constructed a chimeric gene encoding each of two modified mRFPs as follows. The cDNAs of KAM1/MUR3 and KAM1ΔC were amplified by PCR from a cDNA library prepared from Arabidopsis roots using the primer pairs 5′-CGTCTAGAATGTTTCCAAGGGTTTCTATGA-3′ and 5′-CGCTCGAGCTGTGTCTTATCTCTCTGCTCA-3′ for KAM1/MUR3 and 5′-CGTCTAGAATGTTTCCAAGGGTTTCTATGA-3′ and 5′-CGCTCGAGGGAACTAGAATTGGCTACTGGT-3′ for KAM1ΔC. The amplified fragments were inserted into the XbaI-XhoI site of mRFP/pBI221. These chimeric genes encode the full length of KAM1/MUR3 followed by mRFP1 (KAM1-mRFP) and the N-terminal 119-amino acid sequence of KAM1/MUR3 followed by mRFP1 (KAM1ΔC-mRFP). The chimeric gene encoding SP-mRFP-HDEL was produced by three rounds of PCR amplification as follows. First, the DNA fragment for a SP was amplified using SP-GFP (CITATION) as a template and a set of oligonucleotide primers, 5′-CTCGAGATGGCCAGACTCACAAGCATCATT-3′ and 5′-CATGCCGCCCATGGTGCGGTAGGCGTA-3′. Second, the mRFP-HDEL DNA fragment was amplified using pmRFP as a template and a set of oligonucleotide primers, 5′-ATGGGCGGCATGCGGGGTTCTCATCATCAT-3′ and 5′-AGATCTTCAAAGCTCATCGTGTCCTCCTCCGGCGCCGGTGGAGTGGCGGCCCTCGGCGCGCT-3′. Third, the SP-mRFP-HDEL DNA fragment was amplified using both PCR fragments as templates and a set of oligonucleotide primers, 5′-ATGGGCGGCATGCGGGGTTCTCATCATCAT-3′ and 5′-AGATCTTCAAAGCTCATCGTGTCCTCCTCCGGCGCCGGTGGAGTGGCGGCCCTCGGCGCGCT-3′. The amplified fragment SP-mRFP-HDEL was inserted into the XhoI-BglII site of SP-GFP-CTTP/pBI221 (CITATION). The chimeric gene encodes a SP and mRFP followed by a 12-amino acid sequence including an ER-retention signal, HDEL. The DNA fragment for mRFP–peroxisome-targeting signal 1 (PTS1) was produced by PCR amplification using pmRFP as a template and the primer pair 5′-GCTCGAGATGCGGGGTTCTCATCATCATCA-3′ and 5′-GAGCTCTCACAGCTTTGACACAGGCAATTCCAAGGCTTTGAGATCGGCGCCGGTGGAGTGGCGGCCCTC-3′. This amplified fragment was inserted into the XhoI-SacI site of pBI221. This chimeric gene encodes mRFP followed by a 12-amino acid sequence including PTS1 (CITATION). Protoplasts from Arabidopsis cultured cells were transformed with each of the chimeric genes using polyethylene glycol as described previously (CITATION). Arabidopsis plants (1 to 3 weeks old) were transformed with each chimeric gene by particle bombardment as described previously (CITATION). To generate transgenic Arabidopsis plants, we transformed kam1-1 with a chimeric gene encoding KAM1-mRFP by the in planta method (CITATION). GFP-2sc seeds were mutagenized by soaking them for 16 h in 0.2 or 0.25% (v/v) methanesulfonic acid ethyl ester (Sigma-Aldrich, Tokyo, Japan) and then washed for 11 h in running water to obtain M1 seeds. The M1 seeds were grown after self-fertilization, and the M2 seeds were collected from individual M1 plants to generate the M2 lines (669 lines). Thirty seed grains from each M2 line were grown to obtain 5- to 7-d-old seedlings. We examined each seedling with a fluorescence microscope and selected a mutant line that exhibited abnormal endomembrane structure. We named the mutant katamari1-1 (kam1-1). The kam1-1 homozygous mutant (ecotype Columbia) was crossed with Landsberg erecta wild-type plants to generate a mapping population. In the F2 generation, the kam1-1 mutants were selected and DNA was isolated from the leaf tissues. The polymorphism between Columbia and Landsberg erecta was analyzed using a combination of cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence and simple sequence length polymorphism markers (CITATION; CITATION) with data obtained from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (http://www.arabidopsis.org). Approximately 20 recombinant plants of the F2 progeny were screened for the kam1 phenotype for rough mapping. The position of the KAM1 gene was located in the middle of chromosome 2. For fine-scale mapping, DNA was isolated from 450 plants of the F2 progeny. Nucleotide sequences were determined from both strands using the ABI Prism Big Dye Terminator cycle sequence reaction kit (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA) and a DNA sequencer (Prism 3100; Applied Biosystems). Two polypeptides derived from KAM1/MUR3, Ser-57 to Gln-619 (KAM1LD: lumenal domain) and Arg-542 to Gln-619 (KAM1CT: C-terminal domain), were bacterially produced and injected into an each rabbit subcutaneously with complete Freund's adjuvant. After 3 weeks, two booster injections with incomplete adjuvant were given at 7-d intervals. Two weeks after the booster injections, blood was drawn and the antibodies were prepared. Immunoblot analysis was performed essentially as described previously (CITATION), except that the dilutions of the antibodies were as follows: anti-actin (1:1,000; ICN, Aurora, OH), anti-AtELP against Arabidopsis VSR1 (1:10,000) (CITATION), anti-BiP (1:40,000) (CITATION), anti-KAM1LD (1:500), anti-KAM1CT (1:500), and anti-RGP1 (CITATION). Ten-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings (∼3 g fresh weight) were minced on ice in 10 mL of buffer A (100 mM Hepes-KOH, pH 7.5, 0.3 M sucrose, 5 mM EGTA, 5 mM MgCl2, and Complete proteinase inhibitors [Roche, Mannheim, Germany]). The homogenate was filtered through cheesecloth and centrifuged at 2000g for 20 min at 4°C to remove cellular debris. The supernatant was ultracentrifuged at 100,000g for 1 h at 4°C to obtain a microsomal pellet. To perform suborganellar fractionation, the microsomal pellets were resuspended in 200 μL of each solution of buffer A, high salt-buffer (1 M NaCl, 100 mM Hepes-KOH, pH 7.5, 0.3 M sucrose, 5 mM EGTA, and 5 mM EDTA), alkaline buffer (0.1 M Na2CO3, pH 11, 0.3 M sucrose, 5 mM EGTA, and 5 mM EDTA), and Triton X-100 buffer (1% [v/v] Triton X-100, 100 mM Hepes-KOH, pH 7.5, 0.3 M sucrose, 5 mM EGTA, and 5 mM EDTA). After incubation for 10 min, these suspensions were ultracentrifuged at 100,000g for 1 h at 4°C to obtain supernatant and pellet fractions. Each fraction was subjected to immunoblot analysis. To determine membrane topology of KAM1/MUR3, the microsomal pellets were resuspended in buffer A in the presence or absence of 1% (v/v) Triton X-100 and then were incubated with 10 ng/μL proteinase K (Sigma-Aldrich) for 15 min on ice. The reactions were terminated by the addition of 5 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride and then subjected to immunoblot analysis. To perform subcellular fractionation, the microsomal pellets were resuspended in 0.7 mL of buffer A and layered directly on top of a 16-mL linear sucrose density gradient (10 to 50%, w/w). Centrifugation was performed in an SW28.1 rotor (Beckman, Palo Alto, CA) at 27,000 rpm for 13 h at 4°C, and 0.75-mL fractions were collected with a piston gradient fractionator (Towa Labo, Tokyo, Japan). Each fraction was concentrated with acetone and subjected to immunoblot analysis. The cells were homogenized and solubilized in buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 50 mM NaCl, 1% [v/v] 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonic acid, and Complete proteinase inhibitors) and then centrifuged at 10,000g for 20 min at 4°C to remove cellular debris. The extracts were incubated with each antibody for 16 h at 4°C and then incubated with Protein G–Sepharose FF (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Tokyo, Japan). After extensive washing, the Sepharose beads were boiled in SDS sample buffer (100 mM Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 4% [v/v] SDS, 20% [v/v] glycerol, and 5% [v/v] 2-mercaptoethanol]. The resulting immunoprecipitates were subjected to immunoblot analysis. Fifteen-day-old seedlings were stained with 1 μg/mL DAPI (Wako) in 3.7% (v/v) formaldehyde for 30 min. The stock solution of fluorescent staining reagent used was 200 units/mL Alexa Fluor 546 phalloidin (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) in methanol. Seven-day-old seedlings were fixed in a fixation buffer containing 3.7% (v/v) formaldehyde, 10% (v/v) DMSO, and 0.1% (v/v) Nonidet P-40 for 1 h and then incubated with 20 units/mL Alexa Fluor 546 phalloidin for 1 h in MS medium. Roots from GFP-2sc and kam1-1 seedlings were fixed with 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde and 1% (v/v) glutaraldehyde in 0.05 M cacodylate buffer, pH 7.4. The tissues were then cut into slices with a razor blade and fixed for another 2 h. Procedures for electron microscopic analysis was essentially the same as those described previously (CITATION). After staining, sections were examined with a transmission electron microscope (model 120WX; JEOL, Tokyo, Japan). Hypocotyls from GFP-2sc and kam1-1 seedlings were examined with a scanning electron microscope (model VE-7800; Keyence, Osaka, Japan). The fluorescent images were inspected with a confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM510 META; Carl Zeiss, Jena, Germany) using the 488-nm line of a 40-mW Ar/Kr laser or the 544-nm line of a 1-mW He/Ne laser with either a 100 × 1.4 numerical aperture oil-immersion objective or a 40 × 0.75 numerical aperture dry objective. Image analysis was performed using LSM image examiner software (Carl Zeiss). The data were exported as eight-bit TIFF files and processed using Adobe Photoshop 5.5 (Adobe Systems, Tokyo, Japan). Stock solutions of reagents used were 5 mM latrunculin B in DMSO, 10 mM nocodazol in DMSO, and 100 mM colchicine in DMSO. Seven-day-old GFP-2sc seedlings were incubated in MS medium containing 15 μM latrunculin B, 10 μM nocodazol, 1 mM colchicine, and 1% (v/v) DMSO for 12 h.
