!~ABS~! Most plant microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) have homologues across the phylogenetic spectrum. To find potential plant-specific MAPs that will have evaded bioinformatic searches we devised a low stringency method for isolating proteins from an Arabidopsis cell suspension on endogenous taxol-microtubules. By tryptic peptide mass fingerprinting we identified 55 proteins that were enriched on taxol-microtubules. Amongst a range of known MAPs, such as kinesins, MAP65 isoforms and MOR1, we detected ‘unknown’ 70 kDa proteins that belong to a family of five closely related Arabidopsis proteins having no known homologues amongst non-plant organisms. To verify that AtMAP70-1 associates with microtubules in vivo, it was expressed as a GFP fusion. This confirmed that the protein decorates all four microtubule arrays in both transiently infected Arabidopsis and stably transformed tobacco BY-2 suspension cells. Microtubule-directed drugs perturbed the localization of AtMAP70-1 but cytochalasin D did not. AtMAP70-1 contains four predicted coiled-coil domains and truncation studies identified a central domain that targets the fusion protein to microtubules in vivo. This study therefore introduces a novel family of plant-specific proteins that interact with microtubules.
!~RES~! The present study involved a two-stage strategy: a low stringency identification of proteins enriched on taxol-microtubules without any other pre-selection (such as detergent extraction), and verification that any unknown putative MAPs, as GFP fusion proteins, bind microtubules in living cells. Microtubule protein was isolated by inducing the polymerization of endogenous tubulins contained within extracts of Arabidopsis protoplasts (Landsberg ecotype). Polymerization was induced by incubating extracts in the presence of 20 μm taxol (CITATION) but for 40 min at 4°C. This clearly promoted the sedimentation of protein bands of 50–55 kDa that were established to be tubulin by immunoblotting using anti-tubulin antibodies (Figure 1b). Immunoblotting with anti-MAP65 antibodies also confirmed the enrichment of two bands. Cross-reaction of an enriched 120 kDa band with an antibody to the bimC-type kinesin-related protein DcKRP120-2 indicated the purification of the Arabidopsis homologue. None of these bands was enriched in control samples to which taxol was not added (Figure 1a, lane 1). The procedure was cell line-specific: it was successful for the small dense suspension of Arabidopsis Landsberg ecotype cells but was unsuccessful for the larger, more vacuolated Columbia ecotype suspension cells or carrot or tobacco BY-2 suspension cells. Bands specifically enriched in the microtubule pellets collected in the presence of taxol were then fractionated further by eluting the taxol pellet with 500 mm NaCl. The salt-eluted fractions (from both minus- and plus-taxol pellets) and salt-resistant pellets (from both minus- and plus-taxol pellets) were separated on long format SDS gels using a variety of polyacrylamide concentrations to optimize resolution. One-dimensional gels were used as 2-D gels would not have identified bands greater than ca. 100 kDa, like the 120 kDa bimC kinesins and 219 kDa MOR1. Bands enriched by the addition of taxol were excised from the gel, trypsinized and analysed by MALDI-ToF mass spectrometry. An example of the salt-eluted fractions (minus versus plus taxol) is presented in Figure S1 and the results from several gels at different concentrations are presented in Table S1. [[FIGURE]] MALDI-ToF mass spectrometry confirmed that cytoskeletal proteins were enriched in the presence of taxol. We identified eight of the nine beta-tubulin isotypes in the Arabidopsis genome, five of the six alpha-tubulin and both gamma-tubulin genes (as well as a gamma-tubulin-interacting protein). Several well-characterized MAPs were detected. In addition to the microtubule organization protein MOR1, two isoforms of MAP65 (out of a family of nine) were found, confirming group1 MAP65s (as classified by CITATION) to be the predominant isoforms present in microtubule protein isolated from non-synchronized cells (CITATION). Several kinesins were also enriched by the method: three bimC kinesins and three C-terminal kinesins – the first two being katA and katB respectively (Mitsui et al., 1993, 1994). The method was not optimized for kinesins (i.e. no addition of the non-hydrolysable ATP analogue AMP-PNP) so it is interesting that six of the 61 kinesin family members in the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION) were concentrated in the taxol pellet. In other experiments AMP-PNP was added to prevent ATP hydrolysis from causing elution of kinesins from microtubules but no new kinesins were found in addition to the others already identified (data not shown). Antibodies used to investigate the carrot MAP method (CITATION; CITATION) were employed to immunoblot the Arabidopsis proteins in the taxol pellet. This confirmed the enrichment of MAP65 isoforms (Figure 1b, **) and the DcKRP120-2 bimC kinesin (Figure 1b, ***). In addition to structural MAPs (such as MAP65) and microtubule motor proteins, CITATION identified a third and more heterogeneous class of proteins that, although not thought of as ‘classical’ MAPs, nevertheless associate with microtubules and may co-purify with them. Examples include glycolytic enzymes, kinases, proteins involved in biosynthesis and ribonucleoproteins carrying mRNA. These interactions are not always well defined but they point to the cytoskeleton as a transient matrix for many metabolic activities. In agreement with this, a range of such proteins was enriched in the Arabidopsis taxol pellet (see Figure S1 and Table S1). Briefly, these include: proteins involved in translation and transcription (RNA helicase and the eukaryotic translation initiation factor, eIF3b), consistent with the idea that mRNA complexes may be polarized to various parts of the cytoplasm via an association with microtubules (for review see CITATION); heat shock proteins (see CITATION for the association of HSP90 with plant microtubules); two cohesins: chromosome-associated protein (SMC1-like) and structural maintenance of chromosome protein (SMC3-like), considered to generate dynamic tension between microtubules and sister chromatids (CITATION); glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, reported to bundle microtubules and link vesicles of the endomembrane system to microtubules (CITATION); and sucrose synthase, immunolocalized near cortical microtubules (CITATION). However, as the overall aim of this investigation was to screen for proteins not previously known to interact with microtubules, we concentrated on a group of uncharacterized 70 kDa proteins. At1g68060 (p70) is an expressed protein of unknown function and localization, with a predicted length of 622 amino acids; its predicted molecular weight of 69 290 Da corresponded with the position of the band on the gel. In the second part of the screen, proteins of interest were transiently expressed in Arabidopsis suspension cells as N-terminal GFP fusions to confirm that they locate to microtubules in living cells as well as in vitro. GFP-p70 decorated cortical microtubules in transverse patterns, often labelling thick bundles (Figure 2a,b). To confirm that the labelling pattern of the fusion protein was dependent on microtubules, the transformed cells were treated with anti-cytoskeletal drugs. Addition of taxol caused the microtubules to form bundles and this drew the GFP-p70 into thicker bundled patterns (Figure 2c). Depolymerization of microtubules with the herbicide oryzalin destroyed the pattern of cortical microtubules as well as the filamentous pattern of GFP-p70. In this case, the GFP label was found in scattered foci (Figure 2d). In contrast, depolymerization of actin filaments with cytochalasin D did not affect the filamentous pattern of the GFP label (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Although GFP-p70 labelled the mitotic spindle and the phragmoplast (data not shown) preprophase bands are not abundant in this Arabidopsis suspension culture. In addition, it is also possible that the higher levels of overexpression induced by transient infection could give rise to abnormal patterns and affect the progress of division; we therefore made a stably transformed tobacco BY-2 line to study the division figures. In this stable cell line, the fusion protein decorated microtubules around the cell cycle (Figure 3) as previously seen for the transiently infected Arabidopsis suspension. GFP-p70 decorated the cortical microtubules in a continuous rather than a punctate manner together with dot-like material alongside the tubules (Figure 3a). During division, GFP-p70 decorated all of the microtubule-containing structures. It decorated the preprophase band (Figure 3b) and the spindle microtubules, labelling both the kinetochore bundles and the interpolar microtubules that passed across the metaphase plate (Figure 3c). During cytokinesis the fusion protein bound the phragmoplast and at the late-stage ring phragmoplast Figure 3(d) shows that it does not decorate the midline. [[FIGURE]] Because p70 bound taxol-microtubules in vitro and decorated Arabidopsis and tobacco microtubules in vivo it was designated AtMAP70. A blast search (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST) against GenBank entries indicated that the AtMAP70 protein is one of five similar Arabidopsis proteins. At1g68060 protein, named AtMAP70-1, is 77% identical/82% similar (E = 0.0) to At1g24764 (AtMAP70-2); 66% identical/76% similar (E = e-172) to At2g01750 (AtMAP70-3); 64% identical/75% similar (E = e-168) to At1g14840 (AtMAP70-4) and 37% identical/57% similar (E = 6e-67) to At4g17220 (AtMAP70-5). AtMAP70-1 is also related (60–71% identical/68–76% similar; E values from 0.0 to e-133) to four proteins from rice and one from tomato. Multiple alignments of all five Arabidopsis proteins, using ClustalX, are shown in Figure 4(a). A phylogenetic tree (Figure 4b) for the MAP70 genes (in Arabidopsis, tomato and rice) shows that Arabidopsis isoforms 1–4 are most closely related to each other and that AtMAP70-5 is the most divergent. [[FIGURE]] blast and fasta (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/fasta33) searches against non-redundant databases indicate that none of the MAP70 family members has relatives amongst non-plant organisms and could be only very distantly related to myosin II heavy chain (Hydra, E = 1e-06), lamin A (Xenopus, E = 7e-05), periplakin (Homo, E = 3e-05) and cdc42-binding protein kinase β (E = 0.008). AtMAP70-1 is less similar to its nearest non-MAP70 protein hits than the plant MAP65 (Arabidopsis) is to its animal homologue PRC1 (Mus, E = 8e-15 and human, E = 2e-13) and MOR1 is to XMAP215 (human, E = e-172 and Xenopus, E = e-132). This indicates that MAP70 are plant-specific proteins. A PSI-blast search indicated that N-terminal regions (aa 20–350 approx.) of all MAP70 proteins share some homology (22–24% identical amino acids) to the Rho-associated coiled-coil domain (aa 400–750 approx.) of a cdc42-binding protein kinase β (rat, mouse and human). AtMAP70-1 has no predicted trans-membrane domains (CITATION), and this applies to all other MAP70 isoforms. Calculating the hydropathic properties using the Kyte–Doolittle method (CITATION) indicates that MAP70 proteins are largely hydrophilic and have no distinct hydrophobic regions, consistent with its occurrence in the soluble Arabidopsis cell homogenate. The expression pattern of all five family members was investigated using publicly available microarray data (http://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch/). This showed that all five isoforms are ubiquitously expressed throughout the Arabidopsis plant (Figure 5a). AtMAP70-1, which is the subject of this study, is the most highly expressed isoform in the hypocotyls (Figure 5b) and is also highly expressed in the shoot apex (Figure 5c). This might suggest that AtMAP70-1 is involved in cell elongation and/or the mitotic cycle. Therefore, to analyse the expression of the MAP70 family during the division cycle we examined the microarray data for synchronized Arabidopsis suspension cells (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] In Arabidopsis suspension cells synchronized by releasing them from sucrose starvation, the mitotic marker, cyclin B1, peaked 12 h later (as shown in Figure 5e). However, only AtMAP70-3 shows any significant upregulation (over sixfold) over this period – the more rapid increase in transcript levels suggesting a role in cell growth and/or re-entry into the division cycle. By contrast, AtMAP70-1 shows relatively little variation as the cells enter division. This indicates that it is not transcriptionally regulated during the cell cycle and that the cycling of the protein between the various microtubule arrays is most probably post-translationally controlled. To investigate the region of AtMAP70-1 responsible for interaction with microtubules we examined its structure prior to making GFP fusions of variously truncated polypeptides. There is a high probability (0.6–0.9) that AtMAP70-1 has three coiled-coil domains, occurring between amino acids 70–144 (N-terminal), 188–313, 345–372 and a moderate probability (0.3–0.6) of a fourth C-terminal coiled-coil (amino acids 546–573) (Figure 6a and http://www.coiled-coil.org/) (CITATION; CITATION). A non-regular secondary structure region (NORS) was found in AtMAP70-1 between amino acids 442 and 519 (CITATION); that is, between coiled-coils 3 and 4. This disordered region could represent a structurally flexible extended loop (CITATION) that is conserved in MAP70 proteins and may play an important role in their function. [[FIGURE]] In their genome-wide screen of Arabidopsis proteins predicted to form long coiled-coils, CITATION described AtMAP70-1 as having three coiled-coil domains but in our analysis we identified a fourth shorter coiled-coil domain C-terminal to the other three (Figure 6a,b). To determine which, if any, of these four domains is necessary for targeting AtMAP70-1 to microtubules in cells, a series of AtMAP70-1 truncations, all fused at the N or the C terminus to GFP, were transiently expressed in Arabidopsis cell suspensions. This showed that neither the N-terminal CC1 domain nor the C-terminal CC4 domain is necessary to target the protein to microtubules in living cells (Figure 6c). Further truncations established that an intact CC3 plus an N-terminal portion of the NORS domain and a C-terminal portion of the CC2 domain – stretching from amino acid 250 to amino acid 483 – are essential for directing the fusion protein to microtubules (Figure 6c,d). Still further truncation of 50 amino acids at either the C or the N terminus resulted in loss of the microtubule labelling, confirming that part of the CC2 coiled-coil and part of the NORS domain, together with CC3, play a role in targeting the protein to microtubules. This 250–483 region is conserved within the Arabidopsis MAP70 family and in blast searches this restricted domain shows no homology to any known MAPs. Bioinformatics searches have shown that many MAPs known in other eukaryotes have relatives in the plant kingdom (CITATION; CITATION) but methods based on homologies obviously cannot identify plant MAPs, like SPR2/TOR1 (CITATION), that have no fungal or animal relatives. Biochemical binding assays offer an alternative direct approach. CITATION have already used a proteomics-based search for Arabidopsis MAPs. That study used columns of neuronal tubulin to isolate a range of tubulin-binding proteins from Arabidopsis suspension cultures but the inability to identify authentic MAPs like MAP65 suggests that proteins that bind the assembled microtubule lattice, as opposed to the tubulin dimer, may have been excluded by such an approach. If further plant MAPs remain to be detected then assays involving microtubule-binding are likely to play an important part.
!~MM~! Cell suspension cultures of Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. ecotype Columbia 0 (CITATION) and Landsberg (CITATION), and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum, L.) Bright Yellow-2 (BY-2; CITATION) were grown in 0.44% (w/v) Murashige and Skoog's powdered medium containing Gamborg B5 vitamins (Duchefa, Haarlem, The Netherlands) plus 3% (w/v) sucrose. Arabidopsis cells were supplemented with 0.05 mg l−1 kinetin and 0.5 mg l−1 NAA at pH 5.8. The BY-2 cells were supplemented with 1 mg l−1 thiamine, 0.2 mg l−1 2,4-D and 200 mg l−1 KH2PO4 at pH 5.8. The cultures were maintained by weekly dilution: 5–10 ml of liquid culture at day 7 were added to 50 ml fresh medium (Arabidopsis) or 1–2 ml to 100 ml (tobacco BY2), and cultivated in 250 ml flasks on a gyratory shaker at 150 rpm and constant temperature of 25°C. Proteins were isolated from protoplast extracts of 3–4 day Arabidopsis Landsberg cell suspension cultures. Cells were collected by centrifugation at 200 g for 5 min and washed twice with fresh Arabidopsis medium. Washed cells were converted to protoplasts using 2% (w/v) Onozuka R-10 cellulase and 0.5% (w/v) Pectolyase Y-23 (Yakult Pharmaceutical, Tokyo, Japan) in PME buffer (50 mm PIPES pH 6.9, 5 mm EGTA, 5 mm MgSO4) containing 0.4 m sorbitol (PMES). Protoplasts were washed in PMES buffer, frozen in liquid nitrogen and extracted as described in CITATION. The extracts were brought to 10 mm EGTA and 0.4 mm PMSF (and in experiments with kinesins, with 2 μm AMP-PNP) and centrifuged at 55 000 g for 40 min at 4°C. The protein concentration in these extracts was ca. 30 mg ml−1 and it was determined that the endogenous tubulin could be polymerized by adding taxol (Paclitaxel, Sigma-Aldrich Co. Ltd., Poole, Dorset, UK) to 20 μm final concentration, basically according to the method of CITATION. At this ratio of protein:taxol the method could be performed successfully on one 50 ml flask of cells. After 40 min at 4°C the microtubules were collected by centrifugation at 50 000 g for 40 min at 10°C. In other experiments the pellets were washed with 0.5 m NaCl containing 20 μm taxol, to release MAPs, and centrifuged again. The procedure was also conducted without taxol-microtubules to control for proteins that sediment independently of microtubules. The protein composition of the supernatant and pellet was analysed by one-dimensional gel electrophoresis using 15 cm, 7.5% polyacrylamide gels to separate the high molecular weight proteins, 15% to separate the low molecular weight proteins and 10% polyacrylamide for the mid-range polypeptides. Proteins enriched in the presence of taxol were excised, subjected to in-gel trypsin cleavage and analysed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization, time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) (CITATION). mascot (http://www.matrixscience.com/) software was used to compare the tryptic peptide fingerprints with the theoretical fingerprints derived from cognate proteins in the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION). Peptide fingerprints were searched with a mass error of 50–75 p.p.m. Coverage of the protein by matching peptides was a minimum of 12% with at least four independent peptides matching with a stringency of 0.001% maximum deviation of mass accuracy (CITATION). NCBI blast search against non-redundant databases was used to identify the protein and its homologues. Bioinformatics analysis was done using Jemboss, nnpredict, psiped, MultiCoil, NORSp, das, impala, motif, NetPhos 2.0 and swissmodel programs and servers. ClustalX (CITATION) was used for alignment of MAP70 proteins. The gene encoding AtMAP70-1 protein (At1g68060) that was enriched in the presence of taxol was cloned into a GATEWAY (GATEWAYTM cloning technology; Life Technologies, Invitrogen Ltd. Renfrew, UK) entry vector essentially as described by CITATION. cDNA clone of At1g68060 in pUni51 cloning vector was purchased from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (DNA Stock Center, The Ohio State University; clone RAFL09-89-J19) and the ORF was amplified by PCR with attB1/attB2 GATEWAY primers (Invitrogen). A BP reaction of the PCR product with pDONR207 donor vector (Invitrogen) was performed to create the AtMAP70-1 entry clone. Using the entry clone and GFP-N-Bin (based on pBI) destination vector, the LR reaction was performed to create the 35S::GFP-AtMAP70-1 expression clone. Arabidopsis and tobacco BY-2 cells were transformed with 35S::GFP-AtMAP70-1 expression clone on the second day after dilution of the cell culture using hypervirulent Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404.pBBR1MCSvirGN54D. For the Arabidopsis cell suspension culture, transient expression of the GFP fusion protein was observed 2–3 days after transformation using fluorescence (Nikon Eclipse E600; Nikon, Tokyo, Japan) and confocal laser scanning (Leica DM IRB, SP2) microscopy (CLSM). Stable tobacco BY-2 transformants were obtained by co-culturing for 2 days the BY-2 cell suspension with A. tumefaciens containing the 35S::GFP-AtMAP70-1 expression clone. The cells were then harvested by centrifugation, washed five times with sterile BY-2 medium to remove Agrobacterium and spread onto Petri dishes containing BY-2 medium supplemented with 0.4% (w/v) Phytagel and appropriate antibiotics. Cells were grown in the dark at 25°C for 2–3 weeks until transformed calli appeared. The calli were sub-cultured to liquid BY-2 medium containing appropriate antibiotics and GFP expression was observed using CLSM. Transformed tobacco BY-2 cell suspension culture was maintained by regular sub-culturing with antibiotics for several months. To confirm that AtMAP70-1 specifically decorates microtubules, GFP-AtMAP70-1-expressing cells and their protoplasts were treated with microtubule-stabilizing (taxol/paclitaxel, Sigma) and -depolymerizing (oryzalin, Sigma) drugs at 20 μm and with actin-depolymerizing drug cytochalasin D (Sigma) at 5 μm for 1 h at room temperature. GFP localization was observed using CLSM. To reveal the role of different regions of the AtMAP70-1 protein in microtubule decoration, the cDNA clone of AtMAP70-1 was truncated using PCR with specially designed GATEWAY-compatible primers. Five distinct features of the protein were identified by bioinformatics and used as a guide to determine the sites for truncation. These five domains consist of four predicted coiled-coils (CITATION; CITATION): an N-terminal (aa 70–144), two middle (aa 188–313 and aa 345–372) and a C-terminal (aa 546–573) domain; plus an extended helical part (aa 387–533) containing a region of non-regular secondary structure (NORS – aa 442–519) (CITATION) (Figure 6a,b). Truncated constructs were cloned into GATEWAY, expressed as GFP fusions in Arabidopsis cell suspension culture and GFP localization was observed using CLSM.
