!~ABS~! SE-WAP41, a salt-extractable 41-kD wall-associated protein that is associated with walls of etiolated maize (Zea mays) seedlings and is recognized by an antiserum previously reported to label plasmodesmata and the Golgi, was cloned, sequenced, and found to be a class 1 reversibly glycosylated polypeptide (C1RGP). Protein gel blot analysis of cell fractions with an antiserum against recombinant SE-WAP41 showed it to be enriched in the wall fraction. RNA gel blot analysis along the mesocotyl developmental axis and during deetiolation demonstrates that high SE-WAP41 transcript levels correlate spatially and temporally with primary and secondary plasmodesmata (Pd) formation. All four of the Arabidopsis thaliana C1RGP proteins, when fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) and transiently expressed in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) epidermal cells, display fluorescence patterns indicating they are Golgi- and plasmodesmal-associated proteins. Localization to the Golgi apparatus was verified by colocalization of transiently expressed AtRGP2 fused to cyan fluorescence protein together with a known Golgi marker, Golgi Nucleotide Sugar Transporter 1 fused to yellow fluorescent protein (GONST1:YFP). In transgenic tobacco, AtRGP2:GFP fluorescence is punctate, is present only in contact walls between cells, and colocalizes with aniline blue–stained callose present around Pd. In plasmolyzed cells, AtRGP2:GFP remains wall embedded, whereas GONST1:YFP cannot be found embedded in cell walls. This result implies that the targeting to Pd is not due to a default pathway for Golgi-localized fusion proteins but is specific to C1RGPs. Treatment with the Golgi disrupting drug Brefeldin A inhibits Pd labeling by AtRGP2:GFP. Integrating these data, we conclude that C1RGPs are plasmodesmal-associated proteins delivered to plasmodesmata via the Golgi apparatus.
!~RES~! Previously, we demonstrated that S-41 immunolabeled Pd and Golgi (CITATION). Because this antiserum was generated against a protein band from an SDS-PAGE gel, it may recognize more than one protein that could be present in the band. Furthermore, this antiserum cross-reacted with two additional proteins. A combination of experimental methods was used to molecularly characterize the protein or proteins recognized by S-41, which targets to Pd. In one approach, we employed S-41 to screen an expression library generated using mRNA obtained from meristematic tissues of 5-d-old maize seedlings. Screening ∼4.3 × 105 plaque forming units yielded 40 clones recognized by S-41. Hybridization experiments revealed that the isolated clones represent two hybridization groups, termed H1 and H2, containing 19 and 21 clones, respectively, indicating that S-41 identified two distinct proteins from the expression library. In parallel, purified SE-WAP41, a salt-extractable 41-kD WAP, that was recognized by S-41 (CITATION) was microsequenced, yielding a 25–amino acid sequence: NLDFLGM?RPFFQPYHLIIVQDGDP. Based on this sequence, a degenerative primer was synthesized to allow identification of isolated clones encoding the SE-WAP41 internal sequence. The degenerative primer was used in combination with a reverse primer from the library's vector sequence in a PCR reaction to identify clones previously isolated employing the S-41 antiserum and that encode a protein that contains the sequenced peptide. Seven clones were identified, all belonging to the H1 hybridization group, establishing that this hybridization group encodes the SE-WAP41 protein. The insert lengths of the various clones belonging to H1 were determined by an additional PCR reaction with primers complementary to vector sequences on both sides of the insert, and the clone that had the longest insert was sequenced. The open reading frame of the insert encodes a protein containing 364 amino acids with a calculated mass of 41,038 D, matching the size of the 41-kD WAP. The predicted gene product contained the internal sequence previously obtained by SE-WAP41 microsequencing, confirming that the clone encoded SE-WAP41. The sequence of the maize gene encoding SE-WAP41 protein was deposited in the EMBL and National Center for Biotechnology Information data libraries (accession number U89897). High sequence homology of SE-WAP41 to members of the RGP protein family (pfam 03214) resulted in SE-WAP41 annotation as an RGP protein. A representative of the H2 hybridization group was sequenced and found to encode an aldolase protein (data not shown). It remains to be seen whether this aldolase protein is Pd associated or merely unspecifically identified by the S-41 antiserum. Work with clones in the H2 group was not further pursued. SE-WAP41 expressed in Escherichia coli as a His tag fusion was used to immunize rabbits. The antiserum obtained from one rabbit, termed SR-41, exhibited good immunogenic activity with the purified recombinant protein in protein gel blots. Protein gel blot analysis with SR-41 of proteins from the soluble, the membranal, and the wall fractions demonstrated that SE-WAP41 is highly enriched in the wall fraction that contains embedded Pd, compared with the membranal and soluble fractions (Figure 1 ). The membrane and soluble fractions are more weakly labeled, suggesting lower levels of SE-WAP41 association with these fractions. This protein gel blot analysis also verified that SR-41 antiserum recognizes the 41-kD protein, without recognizing the other major bands labeled by S-41 (Figure 1). Additionally, SR-41 did not recognize aldolase (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The formation of both simple primary and secondary Pd and their modification to branched Pd occurs primarily in meristematic tissues and in expanding and/or elongating tissues (CITATION; CITATION). If SE-WAP41 is a Pd-associated protein, it is expected that in etiolated maize seedlings its expression should be highest in the mesocotyl node, which is a meristem tissue, and in a 1- to 2-cm region just below the node, a region in which cells are undergoing extensive elongation. SE-WAP41 mRNA expression levels were compared in segments, each 1 cm in length, along the mesocotyl developmental gradient. RNA gel blot analysis using SE-WAP41 cDNA probe showed that SE-WAP41 transcript level was highest in the region containing the mesocotyl node and the most extensively expanding cells and decreased along the mesocotyl developmental gradient (Figure 2 ). [[FIGURE]] The correlation between cell division and mRNA expression level was further examined in a second experimental system. Exposure of etiolated seedlings to light brings about a cessation of cell divisions in the mesocotyl meristem (CITATION; CITATION). RNA gel blot analysis was used to examine the effect of light on SE-WAP41 mRNA expression levels in mesocotyls of etiolated maize seedlings. After exposure to light, SE-WAP41 mRNA levels decreased 2-fold after 3 h, 3.5-fold after 6 h, and 10-fold after 24 h (Figure 3 ). Actin mRNA levels displayed a similar decrease (Figure 3) indicative of cell division cessation. [[FIGURE]] Further study was done with genes of Arabidopsis because its genome has been fully sequenced and open reading frames annotated. The Arabidopsis genome encodes four homologous genes termed AtRGP1, AtRGP2, AtRGP3, and AtRGP4, which belong to C1RGPs. These Arabidopsis proteins show high degrees of amino acid sequence identity with SE-WAP41 (Figure 4 ). Amino acid sequence analysis (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/) revealed that AtRGP2 is the closest homolog of SE-WAP41, sharing 87% amino acid sequence identity. AtRGP2 was fused to GFP to examine its intracellular localization. AtRGP2:GFP was transiently expressed in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaf epidermal cells using Agrobacterium tumefaciens leaf injection. Confocal microscopy revealed fluorescence in several distinct sites inside epidermal cells. Punctate paired fluorescent foci were detected on opposite sides of the cell wall—a pattern consistent with AtRGP2 being a plasmodesmal-associated protein (Figures 5A and 5B ). Fluorescence was also observed as small fluorescence foci throughout the cell cytoplasm (Figure 5B), which moved rapidly throughout the cytoplasm and along cytoplasmic strands through the vacuole, in a manner characteristic of Golgi vesicles (see Supplemental Video 1 online). Fluorescence could also be seen in large amorphous areas inside cells (data not shown), apparently representing inclusion bodies resulting from the massive quantities of AtRGP2:GFP produced inside the cells during transient expression. Fluorescence was also detected in small areas inside cell nuclei (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Our supposition that the AtRGP2:GFP mobile foci represent Golgi bodies is supported by the report by CITATION, in which it was shown that PsRGP1, a pea (Pisum sativum) C1RGP that shares high sequence identity with SE-WAP41 and AtRGP proteins (Figure 4), immunolocalizes to the trans-Golgi apparatus. To verify that the mobile foci are indeed Golgi bodies, Golgi Nucleotide Sugar Transporter 1 fused to yellow fluorescent protein (GONST1:YFP), which has been shown to label Golgi bodies (CITATION), was employed. AtRGP2 when fused to cyan fluorescent protein (AtRGP2:CFP) and coexpressed with GONST1:YFP clearly colocalize with GONST1:YFP (Figure 6 ). [[FIGURE]] To examine whether plasmodesmal association is a general characteristic of C1RGPs, AtRGP1:GFP, AtRGP3:GFP, and AtRGP4:GFP were constructed and transiently expressed in tobacco leaf epidermal cells. These fusion proteins displayed fluorescence patterns identical to that presented by AtRGP2:GFP in all respects (data not shown), except that AtRGP1:GFP fluorescence levels were lower. These fluorescence patterns are consistent with AtRGP1, AtRGP3, and AtRGP4 being plasmodesmal-associated proteins. The observation that all four Arabidopsis C1RGPs appear to be plasmodesmal associated indicates that plasmodesmal association is a general characteristic of members of C1RGPs. Transgenic tobacco plants constitutively expressing the AtRGP2:GFP fusion under the control of the 35S promoter of the Cauliflower mosaic virus were generated. In these plants, AtRGP2:GFP fluorescence was localized in punctate fluorescence foci inside cell walls (Figure 7A ). This pattern is similar to that presented by transgenic tobacco plants constitutively expressing a GFP fusion of a known Pd marker, the movement protein of Tobacco mosaic virus (MPTMV:GFP) (Figure 7B). The cell wall at the base of a trichome is especially rich in Pd. Transgenic MPTMV:GFP expressing tobacco plants exhibit a characteristic dense punctate pattern where these Pd are fluorescently marked (Figure 7C). The same pattern is presented by the transgenic AtRGP2:GFP expressing plants (Figure 7D), supporting the conclusion that AtRGP2 localizes to Pd. [[FIGURE]] AtRGP2:GFP fluorescence was seen only in wall areas that contain Pd, where two cells are in contact, whereas wall areas devoid of Pd were unlabeled, as demonstrated by trichome cells and spongy mesophyll cells. Tobacco trichomes are hair-like structures, protruding from the epidermis surface, consisting of a single file of several cells (Figure 7E). Therefore, tobacco trichome cells have both Pd containing walls, those walls separating two cells, and lateral walls that are only in contact with the air surrounding the trichome, which are devoid of Pd. Spongy mesophyll cells (Figure 7G) likewise have regions with no cell–cell contact, where walls face an intercellular space and are devoid of Pd, and regions with cell–cell contact, where walls contain Pd. Fluorescence was detected only within cell wall regions where there is cell–cell contact, in both trichome cells (Figure 7F), and spongy mesophyll cells (Figure 7H). This differentiating labeling of walls further indicates that AtRGP2 is associated with Pd or with the wall sheath surrounding Pd. To verify that the punctate fluorescence foci inside cell walls indeed represent Pd, we employed callose staining by aniline blue. Callose has been widely used as a plasmodesmal marker (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; and others). When leaves of AtRGP2:GFP expressing transgenic tobacco were stained by aniline blue, AtRGP2:GFP clearly colocalized with the aniline blue–stained callose (Figure 8 ) present around Pd. Wild-type tobacco, not expressing GFP, when stained by aniline blue and photographed with GFP conditions displayed no fluorescently labeled Pd (data not shown). Likewise, transgenic AtRGP2:GFP expressing transgenic tobacco not stained by aniline blue but photographed with aniline blue conditions also displayed no fluorescently labeled Pd (data not shown). These negative control experiments verify that colocalization is not the result of fluorescence bleedthrough between GFP and aniline blue channels. [[FIGURE]] In mature tobacco tissue, AtRGP2:GFP fluorescence was not detected in mobile bodies possibly because of the lower steady state levels present during stable expression. Plasmolysis of cells in leaves causes shrinkage of the cell protoplast and retraction of the PM from the wall, with Pd remaining embedded in the cell wall (CITATION). Plasmolysis was induced in leaves of the transgenic AtRGP2:GFP expressing tobacco plants to learn about the association of AtRGP2 with Pd. The fluorescent dye DsRed1, a cytoplasmic marker, was used to allow better visualization of the receding cytoplasm and PM during plasmolysis. DsRed1 was transiently expressed in leaf epidermal cells of transgenic tobacco plants stably expressing AtRGP2:GFP, before they were plasmolyzed, thus marking the cytoplasm of these cells (Figure 9A ). After plasmolysis, AtRGP2:GFP fluorescence clearly remained inside cell walls, in regions where the cytoplasm became disassociated from both sides of the cell wall (Figure 9B). This result demonstrates that the punctate sites are not within the cortical cytoplasm nor PM associated, but are embedded in the cell wall. This is similar to the result obtained in plasmolyzed transgenic tobacco plants stably expressing MPTMV:GFP (Figure 9C). To examine if association with Pd occurs for any stably expressed Golgi-localized GFP fusion protein, through some default pathway, GONST1:YFP expressing transgenic tobacco plants were generated. When these plants were plasmolyzed, no fluorescence remained in cell walls (Figure 9D). [[FIGURE]] The presence of AtRGP GFP fusions in both Pd and the Golgi apparatus led us to hypothesize that C1RGPs are delivered to Pd via the Golgi apparatus. Brefeldin A (BFA), a disruptor of the Golgi apparatus (reviewed in CITATION), was used to examine this hypothesis. Epidermal cells of tobacco leaves treated with BFA during transient expression of AtRGP2:GFP were compared with cells not treated with BFA. BFA-treated cells displayed a decrease in the numbers of fluorescently labeled Golgi bodies (Figure 10 ). Fluorescently labeled foci, containing labeled Pd or clusters of Pd in pit fields that are too close together to resolve individually, were counted in five consecutive confocal sections representing the middle layer of each cell. On average, BFA-treated cells presented 24.4 ± 2.95 fluorescently labeled Pd, whereas mock-treated cells presented 77.3 ± 10.85 fluorescently labeled Pd. Thus, BFA-treated cells displayed a decrease of approximately threefold in the average number of fluorescently labeled Pd when compared with cells not treated with BFA. A paired-sample t test showed results to be significantly different at P < 0.001. The fact that the number of AtRGP2:GFP-labeled Pd was lower in the presence of the Golgi-disrupting BFA, combined with the observation that GFP fusions of AtRGPs label the Golgi apparatus, demonstrates that C1RGPs pass through the Golgi apparatus before their arrival at Pd. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Zea mays cv Jubilee (Roger Brothers Company, Idaho Falls, ID) seeds were imbibed overnight and grown in moist vermiculite in the dark for 5 d at 25°C. Nicotiana tabacum cv Samson and cv Xanthi plants were grown in 10-cm pots on a mix of equal volumes of soil and vermiculite (Pecka Hipper Gan, Rehovot, Israel) at 25°C under long-day conditions (16-h-light/8-h-dark cycles). The cell wall fraction (CW) was prepared from the first upper centimeter of mesocotyl of etiolated Z. mays seedlings as previously described (CITATION). CW from 40 g of fresh tissue were incubated overnight at 4°C in 50 mL of SE buffer (3 M NaCl, 5.6% β-mercaptoethanol, and 50 mM Hepes, pH 7.4), and the salt-extracted (SE) proteins were separated from the CW by centrifuging at 12,000g for 5 min. The pelleted walls were than washed with equal volume (50 mL) of extraction buffer without the NaCl, the walls were removed by centrifugation as above, and the supernatants were combined. After desalting and concentration by ultrafiltration with a 100-kD transfer cutoff (Amicon; Millipore, Billerica, MA), the proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE as previously described (CITATION). The 41-kD band, containing ∼11 μg protein, was cut from the gel. After trypsin digestion in-gel, the peptides were extracted from the gel, separated by reverse phase HPLC and microsequenced by automated Edman degradation by Eurosequence (Groningen, The Netherlands). A cDNA library constructed in the λZAP II (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) with poly(A) RNA from meristematic tissues of mesocotyl and first leaf of 5-d-old etiolated maize seedlings was screened with purified S-41 polyclonal antiserum at a dilution of 1:2000 obtained as previously described (CITATION). The S-41 antiserum employed was first purified on a Protein A column and then on a Sepharose 4B column linked to total bacterial proteins (CITATION). An alkaline phosphatase linked goat-anti-rabbit antibody (Jackson Immuno Research Laboratories, West Grove, PA), diluted 1:4000, was used to identify plaques expressing proteins recognized by S-41 by a color reaction in the presence of 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate and nitroblue tetrazolium (CITATION). All DNA procedures were performed by standard techniques (CITATION). Phage isolates were converted to plasmid clones following the Stratagene λZAP excision protocol. Hybridization groups were determined on nitrocellulose filters containing plaques of all isolated clones by hybridization at high stringency conditions with cDNA of an arbitrarily selected clone radioactively labeled by a Random Primed DNA labeling kit (Boehringer Mannheim, Mannheim, Germany). The screening of clones by PCR was performed on isolated plaques using a degenerated forward primer 5′-TTYTTYCANCCWTAYCAYCT-3′, where Y = A or G, W = A or T, and N = A or G or C or T, and reverse primer complementary to sequence of flanking vector region. For the expression of recombinant SE-WAP41, the cDNA was PCR amplified employing the forward primer 5′-CGAATTCATATGGCGGGCACGGTGACG-3′ and the reverse primer 5′-CCGGATCCTACTTTGGCCTTGCCATTTGC-3′, which contained flanking NdeI and BamHI sites, respectively, and the PCR product was cloned into corresponding sites of pET16 (Novagen, Darmstadt, Germany) in fusion to the polyHis. The resulting plasmid pET16:SE-WAP41 was transformed to BL21(DE3) cells, and expression of His:SE-WAP41 was induced by 2 mM isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside in log phase cultures for 4 h. The fusion protein was affinity purified on Ni-NTA-Agarose beads (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany), released with imidazole, and then rechromatographed, and the bound protein was cleaved in column from the His tag by Factor Xa (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO). The purified protein was mixed with complete Freund's adjuvant (Difco Laboratories, Detroit, MI), and the mixture was injected into 10 to 20 sites on the backs of 1-month-old female New Zealand rabbits. The subsequent four booster injections, spaced at a 4-week interval, were prepared with incomplete Freund's adjuvant. Cell extracts were prepared and fractionated as previously described (CITATION) with modifications: the filtrates from first homogenization and after nitrogen disruption bomb were combined and centrifuged for 1 h at 90,000g at 4°C. The supernatant was collected for analysis of soluble proteins. The pellet was resuspended in buffer HM/7.5 (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 0.25 M sucrose, 10 mM EGTA, 2 mM EDTA, and 1 mM phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride), repelleted under the same conditions, and used to extract membranal proteins. Plant material from different tissues was harvested and frozen in liquid nitrogen, and total RNA was extracted using TRIzol reagent (Gibco BRL Life Technologies, Gaithersburg, MD) as described by the manufacturer. Ten micrograms of RNA were slot blotted or glycoxylated, separated in 1.4% agarose gel, and passively transferred to a Hybond-N nylon filter (Amersham, Fairfield, CT). Hybridization was performed with random primed 32P-labeled probes at 65°C for SE-WAP41 containing the whole cDNA, including 3′ and 5′ noncoding sequence, and for maize 26S-rRNA and at 55°C for actin from soybean (Glycine max) in a solution containing 0.26 M phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, 7% SDS, 1 mM EDTA, and 1% BSA. Filters were washed at 61°C, first in 0.26 M phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, containing 1% SDS, then in 2× SSC (1× SSC is 0.15 M NaCl and 0.015 M sodium citrate), 0.1% SDS, and finally in 1× SSC, 0.1% SDS. The 26S-rRNA gene was used as a loading control. Scanning was done with a Fuji BAS 1000 phosphor imager (Tokyo, Japan). To create plasmids pBinGFP, pBinDsRed1, and pBinCFP, cassettes containing the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus, omega sequence enhancer, a synthetic GFP (sGFP) gene (CITATION), the DsRed1 gene (Clontech Laboratories, Palo Alto, CA), or the enhanced CFP gene (Clontech Laboratories), respectively, and the nitric oxide synthase transcriptional terminator were cloned into the HindIII-EcoRI sites of pBINPLUS (CITATION). To construct plasmids pBinAtRGP2:GFP and pBinAtRGP2:CFP, the AtRGP2 gene was amplified without it's stop codon by PCR performed with a 5′-TCTAGAATTCATGGTTGAGCCGGCGAATACTG-3′ forward primer containing XbaI and EcoRI sites and a 5′-TCTAGATACTGCTCTCAAGCTTTTGCCACTG-3′ reverse primer containing an XbaI site and cloned into a unique XbaI site present in pBinGFP or pBinCFP, respectively, between the omega enhancer sequence and the sGFP start codon. EcoRI digestion was used to verify AtRGP2 orientation in pBinAtRGP2:GFP and pBinAtRGP2:CFP. Plasmid pBinAtRGP3:GFP was constructed in the same way using a 5′-TCTAGAATTCATGGCGCAATTGTATTCTTCCGTG-3′ forward primer and a 5′-TCTAGAATTTTTGCCTTTTGGTGCCTCAGC-3′ reverse primer. Construction of pBinAtRGP1:GFP was identical, except AtRGP1 was amplified with a 5′-CCTAGGAATTCATGGTTGAGCCGGCGAACAC-3′ forward primer containing AvrII and EcoRI sites, and a 5′-CCTAGGAGCTTTAGTGGGTGGGTTAAGCTC-3′ reverse primer containing an AvrII site and AvrII-AtRGP1-AvrII fragment was cloned into the unique XbaI site in pBinGFP. Plasmid pBinAtRGP4:GFP was constructed in the same way as pBinAtRGP1:GFP using a 5′-CCTAGGAATTCATGGCGGGCTACAACCTCGAAGCTATC-3′ forward primer and a 5′-CCTAGGCTTGGCCTTGACATCTTTGCCATCGCTC-3′ reverse primer. Transient expression was induced using Agrobacterium tumefaciens leaf injection (CITATION). The abaxial side of N. tabacum cv Samson or cv Xanthi leaves was injected with Agrobacterium strain GV3101 harboring the indicated plasmids, using a 1-mL syringe without a needle. Observation of transient expression was limited to epidermal cells at the lower face of the leaves. GFP fluorescence was examined 24 to 48 h after injection. DsRed1 fluorescence was examined ∼72 h after injection. To create AtRGP2:GFP or GONST1:YFP expressing transgenic plants, wild-type N. tabacum cv Samson were transformed by Agrobacterium strain GV3101 harboring pBinAtRGP2:GFP or pBinGONST1:YFP plasmids accordingly, using a modified leaf disk method (CITATION). Leaf disks were incubated with Agrobacterium for 30 min, washed, and placed for cocultivation in MS medium containing 2 μg/mL of kinetin and 0.8 μg/mL of indoleacetic acid. The rooting medium, contrary to CITATION, did not contain hormones. Analysis was performed on leaves of T0 plants. Callose was stained by incubating leaf segments for 40 min in a mixture of 0.1% aniline blue in double distilled water and 1 M glycine, pH 9.5, at a volume ratio of 2:3, respectively, and premixed at least 1 d before use. Colocalization was viewed with a DMRBE fluorescence light microscope (Leica, Wetzlar, Germany); aniline blue–stained callose fluorescence was viewed with a band-pass 340- to 380-nm excitation filter, an RKP 400 dichromatic mirror, and a long-pass 425-nm emission filter; AtRGP2:GFP fluorescence was viewed with a band-pass 450- to 490-nm excitation filter, an RKP 510 dichromatic mirror, and a band-pass 515- to 560-nm emission filter. GFP and aniline blue monochrome photographs were converted to magenta and yellow, respectively, using Zeiss LSM 5 image browser (Jena, Germany), and color images were inverted using Adobe Photoshop 7.0 ME (Mountain View, CA) to obtain green and blue images, respectively, on white background. Cut leaf section from plants stably expressing AtRGP2:GFP, MPTMV:GFP, or GONST1:YFP were incubated in 30% glycerol until epidermal cells were plasmolyzed. DsRed1 was transiently expressed in the leaves by Agrobacterium leaf injection ∼72 h before they were plasmolyzed. Plasmolysis was determined by monitoring the retraction of the DsRed1 fluorescently labeled protoplast from the cell wall. During transient expression of AtRGP2:GFP, at ∼22 h after Agrobacterium injection, the abaxial side of tobacco leaves was injected with 50 μg/mL of BFA in 0.1% DMSO on one side of the major vein, while the opposite side of the major vein was mock injected with 0.1% DMSO. Injections were performed using 1-mL syringes without a needle, so that the intercellular spaces beneath the epidermis were completely filled. Leaf segments located at equal distances to either side of the major vein and at the same area along the baso-petal axis were cut and examined by confocal microscopy. Optical sections 0.9 μm thick through leaf epidermal cells were scanned by confocal laser scanning microscopy 2 to 5 h after injection of BFA/DMSO (24 to 27 h after Agrobacterium injection). Photographed cells did not include large cells at the base of trichomes or small cells adjacent to stomatal guard cells. The experiment was repeated twice with four leaves from four plants. Fluorescently labeled Pd were counted in 10 BFA-treated cells and 10 mock-treated cells. In each cell, the total number of fluorescently labeled Pd was counted in five consecutive optical sections representing the approximate middle layer of the cell. Fluorescence confocal microscopy was performed using a Zeiss R510 confocal laser scanning microscope. GFP excitation was performed with an argon laser set to 488 nm, and emission was detected with a 525 nm ± 20 nm band-pass filter combination. CFP excitation was performed with an argon laser set to 458 nm, and emission was detected with a 500 nm ± 25 nm band-pass filter. When YFP was used with CFP, YFP excitation was performed with an argon laser set to 514 nm, and emission was detected with a 550 nm ± 20 nm band-pass filter combination. When YFP was used with DsRed1, YFP excitation was performed with an argon laser set to 488 nm, and emission was detected with a 525 nm ± 20 nm band-pass filter combination. The different YFP conditions were used to prevent bleedthrough between fluorescent channels. DsRed1 excitation was performed with a helium-neon laser set to 543 nm, and emission was detected with a 587.5 nm ± 27.5 nm band-pass filter. To expose spongy mesophyll for imaging, leaves were torn by hand so that the epidermis at the lower face of leaf sections was peeled off. Image analysis was performed with the Zeiss LSM-5 image browser. Sequence data from this article appear in the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under the following accession numbers: AtRGP1 (AF013627), AtRGP2 (AF013628), AtRGP3 (AF034255), AtRGP4 (AF329280), PsRGP1 (U31565), and SE-WAP41 (U89897).
