!~ABS~! The plant hormone auxin elicits many specific context‐dependent developmental responses. Auxin promotes degradation of Aux/IAA proteins that prevent transcription factors of the auxin response factor (ARF) family from regulating auxin‐responsive target genes. Aux/IAAs and ARFs are represented by large gene families in Arabidopsis. Here we show that stabilization of BDL/IAA12 or its sister protein IAA13 prevents MP/ARF5‐dependent embryonic root formation whereas stabilized SHY2/IAA3 interferes with seedling growth. Although both bdl and shy2‐2 proteins inhibited MP/ARF5‐dependent reporter gene activation, shy2‐2 was much less efficient than bdl to interfere with embryonic root initiation when expressed from the BDL promoter. Similarly, MP was much more efficient than ARF16 in this process. When expressed from the SHY2 promoter, both shy2‐2 and bdl inhibited cell elongation and auxin‐induced gene expression in the seedling hypocotyl. By contrast, gravitropism and auxin‐induced gene expression in the root, which were promoted by functionally redundant NPH4/ARF7 and ARF19 proteins, were inhibited by shy2‐2, but not by bdl protein. Our results suggest that auxin signals are converted into specific responses by matching pairs of coexpressed ARF and Aux/IAA proteins.
!~RES~! Many Aux/IAA genes, including BDL/IAA12 and its closest homolog IAA13 (At2g33310), appear in regions of segmental genome duplications (CITATION). To examine whether IAA13 is functionally related to BDL/IAA12, we first introduced a proline to serine mutation (iaa13P80S; FIG-REF) in the conserved domain II of a Myc‐epitope‐tagged transgenic copy of the IAA13 gene. The homologous mutation in the BDL gene causes semidominant gain‐of‐function phenotypes, both in the bdl mutant and when provided as a transgene (CITATION). Plants carrying the iaa13P80S transgene resembled bdl mutants in all respects. A single transgene copy caused stunted growth (not shown), whereas two copies caused embryonic phenotypes (FIG-REF). Homozygous iaa13P80S seedlings had no root, and the origin of this defect could be traced to a failure in the specification of the hypophysis‐, the embryonic root meristem precursor‐ and subsequent abnormal cell division patterns (FIG-REF). Western blot analysis showed that the engineered iaa13P80S mutation led to the stabilization of the IAA13 protein (FIG-REF). This effect was quantitatively similar to the stabilization of the BDL protein in bdl mutants (FIG-REF), and caused comparable frequencies of embryo phenotypes (Table I). [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] The phenotypic equivalence of bdl and iaa13P80S gain‐of‐function mutations suggests that the two genes are expressed in a similar way. mRNA in situ hybridization revealed that the IAA13 gene is first transcribed specifically in the globular proembryo, but not the hypophysis (FIG-REF). Later, expression extends basally to the lens‐shaped apical daughter cell of the hypophysis (FIG-REF). Finally, IAA13 mRNA accumulation is restricted to the future vascular tissue (FIG-REF). The identical expression pattern was previously detected for BDL (CITATION). IAA13 mRNA expression was unchanged in bdl mutants (FIG-REF), excluding the possibility that IAA13 acts downstream of BDL. Furthermore, IAA13 promoter‐GUS fusions revealed that the IAA13 expression pattern is regulated at the level of gene transcription (FIG-REF). In conclusion, the IAA13 gene is a functional paralog of BDL. To assess the relative contributions of transcriptional regulation of Aux/IAA genes and Aux/IAA protein determinants in specificity of action in the embryo, a promoter‐swap strategy was adopted. The promoters of BDL or IAA13 were fused to Myc‐epitope‐tagged genomic coding regions of the SHY2/IAA3, BDL or IAA13 genes. Homologous stabilizing proline to serine domain II mutations (SHY2P69S—shy2‐2 (CITATION); BDLP72S—bdl (CITATION); IAA13P80S) were introduced into each construct, and wild‐type versions of the transgenes were analyzed as controls. In accordance with the similar BDL and IAA13 gene activities, pBDL∷iaa13P80S and pIAA13∷bdl plants showed embryonic and postembryonic phenotypes comparable to the bdl and iaa13P80S mutants (FIG-REF; Table I; not shown). Notably, however, whereas shy2‐2 mutants have no embryonic phenotypes (CITATION; Table I), pBDL∷shy2‐2 plants showed a rootless phenotype similar to that of bdl (FIG-REF). In addition, pBDL∷shy2‐2 plants showed bdl‐like postembryonic growth abnormalities (FIG-REF). Although phenotypes were qualitatively similar in all genotypes, the frequency of embryonic phenotypes was significantly lower in pBDL∷shy2‐2 plants (Table I). However, Western blot analysis showed that shy2‐2, bdl and iaa13P80S proteins accumulated to comparable levels (FIG-REF). These results suggest that the specificity of BDL and IAA13 action in embryogenesis is mainly regulated at the level of gene transcription, but other Aux/IAA proteins may also affect root formation when expressed in the embryo. [[FIGURE]] The ARF transcription factor that likely acts in concert with BDL and IAA13 in the embryo is MONOPTEROS (MP)/ARF5 (CITATION; CITATION). To examine whether the ability to inhibit MP activity reflects the activity of bdl and shy2‐2 in the embryo, we developed a heterologous assay for ARF and Aux/IAA activity. A direct repeat of eight ARF‐binding DR5(rev) repeat sequences (CITATION) was placed upstream of a minimal promoter for expression in yeast, and this yDR5 (yeast‐DR5) promoter was fused to the lacZ gene for β‐galactosidase. When HA‐epitope‐tagged MP cDNA was expressed in yDR5∷lacZ yeast cells, the activity of the reporter was induced several‐fold (FIG-REF). Next, HA‐epitope‐tagged cDNAs of SHY2 or BDL were introduced on the same plasmid as MP:HA. Coexpression of SHY2:HA or BDL:HA with MP:HA nearly completely repressed MP:HA activity (FIG-REF), showing that both proteins can inhibit MP activity. Western blot analysis consistently showed that MP:HA, SHY2:HA and BDL:HA were expressed in yeast, indicating that SHY2 and BDL did not interfere with MP expression. However, SHY2:HA consistently accumulated to higher levels than BDL:HA (FIG-REF), presumably because of cleavage of the BDL:HA protein (not shown). This assay shows that both SHY2 and BDL can directly inhibit MP transcription factor activity in the absence of plant‐specific accessory factors, and BDL may be more potent than SHY2. [[FIGURE]] Elongation of the seedling hypocotyl involves SHY2‐dependent auxin responses (CITATION; CITATION). In contrast, bdl mutants show normal hypocotyl elongation (CITATION). SHY2 is predominantly expressed in cotyledons and hypocotyl including peripheral cell layers whereas BDL expression is largely confined to the central vascular strands (CITATION; CITATION). To assess if the specificity of SHY2 action in the hypocotyl is also subject to transcriptional regulation, we expressed Myc‐epitope‐tagged bdl or iaa13P80S proteins from the SHY2 promoter, and compared their phenotypes with pSHY2∷shy2‐2 seedlings. The pSHY2∷shy2‐2 construct induced hypocotyl elongation defects in both light‐ and dark‐grown seedlings (FIG-REF), and the severity of defects correlated well with the level of mutant protein accumulation (FIG-REF). By comparison, pSHY2∷bdl and pSHY2∷iaa13P80S seedlings showed a slightly stronger inhibition of hypocotyl elongation (FIG-REF) although mutant proteins accumulated to lower levels than in pSHY2∷shy2‐2 seedlings (FIG-REF). These results suggest that, as in embryonic root formation, bdl and iaa13 mutant proteins are more effective than the shy2‐2 protein in inhibiting auxin responses. Subsequent shoot development in pSHY2∷shy2‐2, pSHY2∷bdl and pSHY2∷ iaa13P80S plants resembled that of shy2‐2 mutants (FIG-REF; CITATION). However, the phenotypes were again quantitatively different between the genotypes. Plants from different pSHY2∷shy2‐2 lines showed different phenotypic strengths, ranging from those seen in shy2‐2 heterozygotes to those of shy2‐2 homozygotes, whereas the phenotypes of the other two transgenic genotypes strongly resembled shy2‐2 homozygotes (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Aux/IAA proteins act primarily at the level of auxin‐dependent gene expression (CITATION). To test whether this process is similarly affected in pSHY2∷shy2‐2 and pSHY2∷bdl seedlings, we analyzed auxin‐dependent pSHY2∷GUS activity. In wild‐type hypocotyls, pSHY2∷GUS was induced by auxin in the outer cell layers (FIG-REF). This auxin‐induced expression was almost completely lost in the hypocotyl of both pSHY2∷shy2‐2 and pSHY2∷bdl seedlings (FIG-REF). Thus, SHY2 activity feeds back on SHY2 gene expression, and this function can be taken over by BDL protein, indicating functional equivalence of the two Aux/IAA proteins in this specific auxin response. At similar protein concentrations, bdl appeared to have a stronger effect than did shy2 on the hypocotyl and shoot phenotypes, just as it did for embryo phenotypes. Taken together, these results suggest that specificity of SHY2 action in hypocotyl and shoot is determined by the activity of its promoter, with protein determinants affecting only the extent to which auxin responses are inhibited. The shy2‐2 mutation not only affects auxin responses in hypocotyl and shoot, but also in the root (CITATION). To examine whether the specificity of SHY2 action in the root is also transcriptionally regulated, we studied root‐specific auxin responses in pSHY2∷shy2‐2 and pSHY2∷bdl seedlings. Alignment of the root tip with a changing gravity vector requires auxin response, and this response is strongly diminished in shy2‐2 as well as in pSHY2∷shy2‐2 roots (CITATION; FIG-REF). Surprisingly, roots of pSHY2∷bdl seedlings responded almost normally to gravity although their hypocotyls displayed strong inhibition of elongation (FIG-REF, compare with FIG-REF). Similarly, although root growth was comparably reduced in both pSHY2∷shy2‐2 and pSHY2∷bdl seedlings under normal conditions, the two genotypes differed in their response to the growth‐inhibiting effects of auxin (FIG-REF). Whereas pSHY2∷bdl root growth was sensitive, shy2‐2 and pSHY2∷shy2‐2 root growth was partially resistant (FIG-REF). This difference in auxin response between pSHY2∷shy2‐2 and pSHY2∷bdl roots must lie in the shy2‐2 and bdl proteins themselves because both are expressed in the root (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] As in the hypocotyl, auxin responses in the root involve changes in gene expression. The shy2‐2 mutation and pSHY2∷shy2‐2 prevented the auxin‐induced expression of pSHY2∷GUS and pDR5(7x)∷GUS (FIG-REF; CITATION). In contrast, pSHY2∷bdl roots showed normal auxin‐induced expression of both reporters (FIG-REF). The noninduced expression in the root vascular tissues and the distal tip was similarly affected in both pSHY2∷shy2‐2 and pSHY2∷bdl (FIG-REF). In summary, bdl did not regulate auxin‐induced gene expression or gravitropism in roots, even when present at similar protein levels to levels of shy2‐2 that have a strong effect on these phenotypes. These results indicate that shy2‐2 is effective in inhibiting auxin‐mediated root development whereas bdl is not, which is in contrast to the stronger activity of bdl in embryo development, auxin response in the hypocotyl, and shoot and root growth. Aux/IAA proteins inhibit auxin responses through interactions with ARF transcription factors (CITATION). Hence, a plausible explanation for the differential effects of pSHY2∷shy2‐2 and pSHY2∷bdl on auxin‐dependent root development would be that shy2‐2, but not bdl, interacts with a yet unidentified ARF that regulates these auxin responses. To date, no arf mutant has been reported to have root phenotypes that resemble shy2‐2. We took a candidate approach to identify ARF protein(s) involved in auxin‐dependent root development. Initially, we analyzed double mutants for ARF10 and ARF16, two closely related genes (CITATION) that are highly expressed in elongating root epidermis cells (CITATION). These double mutants showed normal gravitropism and auxin response in the primary root (not shown). Thus, ARF10 and ARF16 are unlikely to be targets of shy2‐2 inhibition. The NPH4/ARF7 gene is required for shoot tropisms, but the nph4 mutant has no root gravitropism defect (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; FIG-REF). However, the ARF19 gene is highly related to NPH4 (CITATION), and it has recently been shown that ARF19 acts redundantly with NPH4 in plant growth, including gravi‐ and phototropism in seedlings (CITATION). To test whether ARF19 regulates the same responses that are disturbed in shy2‐2 mutants, two mutant alleles of ARF19 were tested. One of these, arf19‐4, has a weak but significant phenotype in auxin‐mediated root development. Gravitropic response as well as growth sensitivity to 2,4‐D is impaired (FIG-REF). An nph4‐1 arf19‐4 double mutant, however, was severely impaired in gravitropism (FIG-REF) and also showed nearly complete auxin‐resistant root growth (FIG-REF). Correspondingly, auxin‐induced SHY2 gene expression was partially impaired in each single mutant, and nearly completely lost in the nph4‐1 arf19‐4 double mutant (FIG-REF). These results suggest that NPH4 and ARF19 act redundantly in auxin responses in the primary root tip, and are therefore good candidates for targets of inhibition by shy2‐2. [[FIGURE]] Yeast two‐hybrid assays were performed to test whether ARF7 and ARF19 can be targets for SHY2 action in the root, and whether these could be the effectors that discriminate between shy2‐2 and bdl. Because ARF19 seems to contribute most strongly to the physiological responses that are inhibited by shy2‐2, we tested the interaction between full‐length SHY2 or BDL proteins and C‐terminal regions corresponding to domains III and IV of ARF19. As a control, interactions between SHY2 or BDL and domains III and IV of MP were tested. Both SHY2 and BDL interacted with MP as well as with ARF19 (FIG-REF). Unfortunately, although preferential interactions between MP and BDL, on the one hand, and SHY2 and ARF19, on the other, were seen in several independent experiments, the resolution of yeast two‐hybrid assays was too coarse to substantiate differential Aux/IAA–ARF affinities. Nonetheless, the ability of SHY2 to interact with ARF19, combined with the fact that mutant phenotypes of shy2‐2, arf19‐4 and nph4‐1 arf19‐4 roots are very similar, suggests that NPH4 and ARF19 are targets for SHY2 activity. Whether differential Aux/IAA–ARF interactions underlie specificity of SHY2 in the root tip remains unresolved. To address the relative contributions of transcriptional control and protein determinants in specificity of embryonic ARF action, we performed similar promoter‐swap experiments to those described above for Aux/IAAs. We fused the cDNAs of two distantly related ARFs, MP/ARF5 and ARF16, to the BDL cis‐regulatory sequences, and assessed to what extent these transgenes can complement the rootless phenotype of mp mutant seedlings. The mp mutation prevents the formation of the embryonic root in approximately 25% of the progeny of heterozygous plants (CITATION). When pBDL∷MP was transformed into mp heterozygotes, 11 out of 20 plants that carried the mp mutation had a strongly reduced frequency of rootless seedlings (FIG-REF), indicating complementation of the embryonic phenotype. In contrast, the pBDL∷ARF16 transgene reduced the frequency of rootless seedlings in only two out of 11 lines (FIG-REF). Thus, ARF16 protein can potentially complement for the absence of MP. However, MP is much more effective than ARF16, suggesting that features specific to MP protein are required for effectiveness, although not strictly for specificity of action in embryogenesis. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! bdl, shy2‐2 and nph4‐1 mutants have been described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). T‐DNA insertion lines arf10‐1 (SALK_143232), arf10‐2 (SALK_087247), arf16‐1 (SALK_021448), arf16‐2 (SALK_021432), arf19‐3 (SALK_021481) and arf19‐4 (SALK_009879) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (CITATION). Double homozygotes for both alleles of arf10 and arf16 were identified in the F2 generation. Construction of nph4‐1 arf19‐3 and nph4‐1 arf19‐4 double mutants will be described elsewhere (JC Wilmoth and JW Reed, unpublished results). pSHY2∷GUS was described previously (CITATION). Similarly, the IAA13 promoter was amplified by PCR as a 2.11 kb fragment upstream of the translational start (sense primer 5′CGCGAGCTCCTCCATCATTTATCTTCAACCA3′, antisense primer 5′CGCGGATCCCAGAGAGACCACAACAACAACA3′) and cloned in the plant transformation vector pVKH35sGUSpA (CITATION) using SacI/BamHI to result in pVKHIAA13GUSpA. The constructs/vectors pVKHSHY2GUSpA, pVKHBDLGUSpA (CITATION; contain 1.76 kb and 1.96 kb of sequence upstream of the ATG of SHY2 and BDL, respectively) or pVKHIAA13GUSpA were used to generate promoter fusions with genomic fragments spanning the complete coding sequence for SHY2, BDL or IAA13 genes, respectively, with 1.4 kb (SHY2), 1.95 kb (BDL) or 1.99 kb (IAA13) fragments downstream of ATG obtained by PCR amplification. SHY2‐2, BDL and IAA13 coding sequences were amplified from genomic DNA of bdl, shy2‐2 and Col‐0, respectively. A sequence coding for an N‐terminal c‐Myc tag was added to each forward primer. A P80S mutation was introduced into IAA13 by PCR (primers: 5′ATAGGAGACCATCCAACAACTTG3′, 5′CAAGTTGTTGGATGGTCTCCTAT3′). Coding sequences were cloned in the plant transformation vectors pVKHIAA3GUSpA, pVKHIAA12GUSpA or pVKHIAA13GUSpA, respectively, by replacing the GUS coding sequence using BamHI/SalI restriction sites. Agrobacterium and Arabidopsis Col‐0 ecotype plant transformations were performed as described (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected using 15 mg/l hygromycin. Plants were grown on a 16 h light/8 h dark cycle at 18 or 23°C. Exogenous drug application was performed by incubation of 7‐day‐old seedlings in liquid minimal salt media (2.1 g/l MS salts, 1% sucrose) supplemented with 10 μM IAA for 5 h. For hypocotyl measurements, seedlings were grown on minimal salt media (0.7% agar) along the surface of vertical agar plates on a 16 h light/8 h dark cycle or in constant darkness. Hypocotyl lengths were measured from digital images taken after 7 or 5 days of growth. For auxin resistance assays, seedlings grown for 5 days as described above were transferred to MS medium or MS medium supplemented with 0.1 μM 2,4‐D. Root elongation was measured 3 days after transfer. For gravitropism assays, seedlings were vertically grown for 7–9 days in a light/dark cycle, and then transferred to darkness and reoriented by 90°. The angle between the root tip and gravity vector was determined from digital images taken 24 h after reorientation. GUS expression and RNA in situ hybridization were performed as described (CITATION). The fragment for the IAA13 probe was amplified from cDNA by PCR using primers IAA13S (5′TCTGATCGATATGCTGGTTCATCTCCTCCTCG3′) and IAA13AS (5′GTCTCTCTAGAGGTTCTTGATTTCGAGCAGCGA3′) and subcloned in pBluescript SK+. For analysis of SHY2 expression, seedlings were incubated in control medium or medium containing 50 μM IAA at room temperature for 2 h. In one experiment, entire 3‐day‐old seedlings were used for RNA isolation using an RNeasy kit (QIAgen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Poly(A)+‐RNA was isolated using a Dynal mRNA DIRECT kit (Dynal, Oslo, Norway). cDNAs were synthesized using MMuLV‐RT (Invitrogen), and real‐time quantitative RT–PCR reactions were performed on an icycler machine (BIO‐RAD). ACT2 (sense: 5′ATTCAGATGCCCAGAAGTCTTGTTC3′; antisense: 5′GCAAGTGCTGTGATTTCTTTGCTCA3′) and SHY2 (sense: 5′GTCGACGAATTCATGGGGGAGCAAAAGCTTATTTCTGAGGAGGATGATGAGTTTGTTAACC; antisense: 5′GAATTCGGATCCTCATACACCACAGCC3′) PCRs were performed on three different serial dilutions of each cDNA and each reaction was performed at least five times. In a separate experiment, cDNAs were synthesized from poly(A)+‐RNA isolated from roots of 5‐ to 10‐day‐old seedlings as above, and PCR reactions for ACT2 and SHY2 were performed using different dilutions of cDNA. Intensities of bands on ethidium bromide‐stained gels were quantified from scans using the ImageJ program, and normalized SHY2/ACT2 values are represented. RT–PCRs were performed five times on two independent RNA batches, and results were comparable in all experiments. Protein extracts from 7‐day‐old seedlings or roots of 12‐day‐old seedlings were prepared by grinding and boiling in Laemmli buffer (CITATION). Proteins were separated on polyacrylamide gels and transferred to PVDF membranes by Western blotting. Membranes were incubated with monoclonal anti‐Myc antibody (9E10) at 1:600 dilution and then with alkaline phosphatase‐conjugated anti‐mouse secondary antibody at dilution 1:5000, and signals were detected with the Western Star detection kit (Tropix). For Western blot analysis of yeast cells, crude protein extracts were prepared by boiling pelleted yeast cells in 4 volumes of Laemmli buffer. Proteins were separated, blotted and incubated with 1:1000 diluted horseradish peroxidase (POD)‐coupled anti‐HA monoclonal antibody (Sigma), and washed and detected according to the manufacturer's recommendations. Yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) strain YPH500 was transformed with plasmid yDR5∷LacZ containing a direct (8 ×) repeat of the DR5‐rev sequence (CITATION), fused to a minimal CYC1 promoter and the lacZ coding sequence in pLacZi (Clontech). Two to four independent yDR5∷LacZ transformants were used in all experiments. yDR5∷LacZ strains were transformed with pESC‐TRP (Stratagene) plasmids containing either C‐terminal HA‐epitope‐tagged cDNAs of ARF5/MP alone, or in combination with C‐terminal HA‐epitope‐tagged cDNAs of IAA3/SHY2 or IAA12/BDL. All cDNAs were amplified by PCR and sequenced. Approximately 12 yeast colonies per plasmid were grown overnight in minimal medium lacking tryptophan and containing 2% glucose. Cultures were then diluted to a final OD600 of 0.2 in the same medium now containing 2% raffinose and 2% galactose for GAL1/10 promoter induction. Galactosidase activity was measured after 16 h induction according to CITATION. All experiments were repeated at least three times and gave comparable results. For yeast two‐hybrid experiments, entire SHY2 or BDL open reading frames were amplified from wild‐type cDNA. C‐terminal regions of MP (aa 777–902) and ARF19 (aa 948–1086) were PCR‐amplified from cDNA libraries (CITATION). PCR products were subcloned into pGEM‐T and subsequently cloned in‐frame with LexA in pEG202 and with B42 in pJG4‐5. Yeast strain EGY48 was first transformed with plasmid pSH18‐34, and subsequently cotransformed with all possible combinations of pEG and pJG plasmids (in both directions). Experiments with Aux/IAA proteins as LexA fusions gave more consistent results, and are presented here. Galactosidase activity was quantified in cultures from at least 12 colonies for each plasmid combination in each of five experiments. MP was C‐terminally HA epitope tagged by exchanging a 3′ region of the cDNA (MunI–AflII) with a corresponding PCR fragment containing a C‐terminal HA tag (primers: MpcMunI‐S, 5′GATCAATTGATGTCACAAGCTTTAAAGAC3′ and MpcHAAflII‐AS, 5′GCTTAAGAGCATAATCAGGAACATCATAAGGATAATCGTTAATGCCTGC3′). The HA‐tagged cDNA was then used to replace the BDL coding region in a 4.5 kb genomic BDL fragment in pGreenII0229 (CITATION) with BamHI and SpeI sites generated at start and stop codons, respectively. The ARF16 cDNA was amplified from a cDNA library with primers ARF16‐CDS‐S (5′CCGGATCCGAATTCATGATAAATGTGATGAATCC3′) and ARF16‐CDS‐HA‐AS (5′CCACTAGTTTAAGCATAATCAGGAACATCATAAGGATATACTACAACGCTCTCAC3′), the latter containing a C‐terminal HA tag. The PCR fragment was used to replace the BDL coding region in pGreenII BDL as described above. Constructs were transformed into mpB4149 (Columbia ecotype; a gift from B Scheres) heterozygotes, and frequencies of rootless seedlings were determined in T2 seedlings from transgenics carrying the mpB4149 allele.
