!~ABS~! Toc75 (translocon at the outer envelope membrane of chloroplasts, 75 kD) is the protein translocation channel at the outer envelope membrane of plastids and was first identified in pea (Pisum sativum) using biochemical approaches. The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genome contains three Toc75-related sequences, termed atTOC75-I, atTOC75-III, and atTOC75-IV, which we studied using a range of molecular, genetic, and biochemical techniques. Expression of atTOC75-III is strongly regulated and at its highest level in young, rapidly expanding tissues. By contrast, atTOC75-IV is expressed uniformly throughout development and at a much lower level than atTOC75-III. The third sequence, atTOC75-I, is a pseudogene that is not expressed due to a gypsy/Ty3 transposon insertion in exon 1, and numerous nonsense, frame-shift, and splice-junction mutations. The expressed genes, atTOC75-III and atTOC75-IV, both encode integral envelope membrane proteins. Unlike atToc75-III, the smaller atToc75-IV protein is not processed upon targeting to the envelope, and its insertion does not require ATP at high concentrations. The atTOC75-III gene is essential for viability, since homozygous atToc75-III knockout mutants (termed toc75-III) could not be identified, and aborted seeds were observed at a frequency of approximately 25% in the siliques of self-pollinated toc75-III heterozygotes. Homozygous toc75-III embryos were found to abort at the two-cell stage. Homozygous atToc75-IV knockout plants (termed toc75-IV) displayed no obvious visible phenotypes. However, structural abnormalities were observed in the etioplasts of toc75-IV seedlings and atTOC75-IV overexpressing lines, and toc75-IV plants were less efficient at deetiolation than wild type. These results suggest some role for atToc75-IV during growth in the dark.
!~RES~! The sequencing of the Arabidopsis genome has enabled the identification, in silico, of putative homologs of proteins originally identified in other species. For example, it was previously reported that there are three psToc75-related sequences in the Arabidopsis genome: atTOC75-I, atTOC75-III, and atTOC75-IV (CITATION). The atTOC75-III gene is known to be expressed since there are currently 24 different atTOC75-III expressed sequence tags (ESTs) present in the databases. Conversely, there are no atTOC75-I or atTOC75-IV ESTs in the databases (although a partial cDNA sequence was recently released for atTOC75-IV; accession no. BX827624). To assess expression of the putative atTOC75-I gene (no. At1g35860), RNA isolated from whole, wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings was analyzed extensively by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR, using six different primer combinations (Fig. 1A). In each case, no evidence for atTOC75-I gene expression could be detected (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To determine the reasons underlying the apparent inactivity of this putative gene, we conducted detailed studies of the surrounding genomic sequence. Our analysis revealed that homology with psToc75 extends outside of the predicted exons of At1g35860 (Fig. 1A) and even into the adjacent predicted gene, At1g35880, 5.8 kb upstream (Fig. 1A). These observations strongly suggested that the gene had been incorrectly annotated and led us to conduct a manual annotation of atTOC75-I (deposited in GenBank; accession no. BK005428). The corrected annotation revealed a 5.4-kb gypsy/Ty3-related retrotransposon inserted at the 5′ end of the gene (Fig. 1A); this insertion incorporates 395-bp and 392-bp long terminal repeats that share 90% nucleotide sequence identity and is flanked by a perfect 5-bp target site duplication. A related element was previously identified at the waxy locus in maize (Zea mays; CITATION). Our analysis also revealed the presence of numerous nonsense, frame-shift, and splice-junction mutations, as well as a 75-bp insertion and a 48-bp direct repeat in exon 1 (Fig. 1A). This evidence, together with the absence of atTOC75-I ESTs and our inability to detect atTOC75-I expression by RT-PCR, led us to conclude that atTOC75-I is a pseudogene. Next, we investigated the activity and structure of the atTOC75-IV gene (no. At4g09080). Expression analysis by RT-PCR provided clear evidence that the gene is active (Fig. 2A), and the nucleotide sequence of the PCR product obtained revealed that atTOC75-IV transcripts undergo accurate intron splicing (data not shown). Since no publicly available EST or cDNA clones were available for atTOC75-IV when we started these studies, we initiated experiments to identify our own atTOC75-IV cDNA clone. Attempts to identify such a clone by library screening were unsuccessful, presumably due to the low level of expression of the gene, so we instead generated a full-length clone using a combination of RACE-PCR and RT-PCR. The structure of the transcript at its 5′ and 3′ ends was determined by RACE-PCR, and this information was used to design primers for amplification of a full-length cDNA by RT-PCR. The RT-PCR product was cloned and sequenced (information deposited in GenBank; accession nos. AY585655 and AAT08975), and its structure is illustrated in Figure 1A. This experimentally determined structure differs slightly from the predicted structure given as part of the genome sequence annotation (accession no. NM_116977; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The structure of the atTOC75-III gene (no. At3g46740) was determined by sequencing a publicly available EST clone, APZL59c10R, and is shown in Figure 1A. The intron-exon boundaries were found to match exactly those predicted as part of the genome sequence annotation (accession no. AL096859), and the cDNA was essentially the same as a recently released full-length cDNA sequence (accession no. AY127014), except that the 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions were each slightly shorter. The structures of the three Arabidopsis Toc75-related sequences, shown schematically in Figure 1A, are remarkably similar. All three genes have essentially the same intron-exon boundaries, with only two exceptions: exon 1 is absent from atTOC75-IV, and the penultimate intron is absent from the atTOC75-I pseudogene. The three Arabidopsis homologs are also very similar to each other, and to psToc75, at the amino acid level (Fig. 1B). Percentage sequence identities shared between the Arabidopsis proteins and the pea protein are as follows: 73% (atToc75-III), 60% (atToc75-IV), and 55% (atToc75-I). The 5′ truncation of the atTOC75-IV gene means that the atToc75-IV protein includes only eight of the 16 transmembrane domains (nos. 7 and 10–16; Fig. 1B) predicted to be present in psToc75 (CITATION). To determine the evolutionary relationships between the different Arabidopsis Toc75 homologs, we conducted a phylogenetic analysis using amino acid sequences from several different species. In this analysis, we included all three Arabidopsis sequences, the psToc75 sequence, two Toc75 sequences from monocotyledonous species, as well as distantly related sequences from Synechocystis PCC 6803 (SynToc75) and Arabidopsis (atToc75-V/AtOEP80); SynToc75 is a cyanobacterial protein that shares only approximately 21% to 22% sequence identity with psToc75 (CITATION; CITATION), and atToc75-V/AtOEP80 shares limited sequence similarity with canonical Toc75 proteins and SynToc75 (CITATION; CITATION). Our analysis produced a single most parsimonious tree of length 1,872, containing three main clades (Fig. 1C). The outgroup containing SynToc75 and atToc75-V/AtOEP80 comprises 362 mutations that are present in both proteins but not in Toc75 proteins from the other two clades. With the exception of atToc75-V/AtOEP80, the Toc75 proteins from dicotyledonous species were grouped together in the same clade. Toc75 proteins from the two monocotyledonous species, maize and rice (Oryza sativa), formed a separate clade with 89 distinct mutations. The Arabidopsis Toc75 proteins formed a separate subclade, excluding psToc75, which was supported by a bootstrap value of 57%. Applying a cutoff value of 50%, all clades were supported by bootstrap analysis. The phylogeny suggests that the Arabidopsis Toc75 gene family formed after the pea and Arabidopsis species diverged and implies that pea and other species do not necessarily contain genes closely related to either atTOC75-IV or atTOC75-I. After speciation, an Arabidopsis TOC75 progenitor duplicated to form atTOC75-III and another TOC75 gene. Duplication of the latter then created progenitors of atTOC75-I and atTOC75-IV. Inactivation of atTOC75-I (due to the insertion of the gypsy/Ty3 retrotransposon or the accumulation of other mutations), and the truncation of atTOC75-IV, may have occurred after the final duplication event. Alternatively, retrotransposon insertion may have occurred prior to the duplication event that gave rise to atTOC75-I and atTOC75-IV. Since the members of other Arabidopsis Toc component gene families have been shown to exhibit differential expression patterns and some degree of functional specialization (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), it seemed possible that similar specialization might exist within the Arabidopsis Toc75 family. In an initial attempt to gain insight into the roles of the two expressed Arabidopsis Toc75 genes, atTOC75-III and atTOC75-IV, we analyzed their expression patterns using semiquantitative RT-PCR. The use of RT-PCR was necessary since the atTOC75-IV transcript could not be detected by RNA gel-blot analysis (data not shown). Expression data for the Arabidopsis Toc75 genes were normalized using similar data for a uniformly expressed control gene (translation elongation factor, eIF4E1; CITATION) and then expressed as a percentage of the maximum value obtained in each case (Fig. 2C). The data shown in Figure 2C do not provide any information on the relative levels of expression of the two Toc75 genes. However, it is clear that atTOC75-III is expressed at much higher levels than atTOC75-IV for several reasons. First of all, amplification of comparable amounts of the atTOC75-III and atTOC75-IV transcripts by RT-PCR required 20 and 25 cycles, respectively (Fig. 2; data not shown). Assuming that each cycle of amplification produces a 2-fold increase in product yield, this difference in cycle number equates to a 32-fold difference in template concentration. These data are broadly consistent with recently reported microarray data (CITATION); although atTOC75-IV expression was on the limit of detection in this study, the data indicated a difference in expression between the two genes of approximately 60-fold (CITATION). Finally, while there are 24 different ESTs currently available for the atTOC75-III gene, none is available for atTOC75-IV. The expression of atTOC75-III was found to be strong in young, rapidly dividing photosynthetic tissues and significantly weaker in mature or slow growing tissues, such as 28-d-old rosette leaves, and roots (Fig. 2C). Unexpectedly, atTOC75-III expression was found to be particularly low in 5-d-old etiolated plants. This suggests that atToc75-IV, the only other close homolog of psToc75 that is expressed in Arabidopsis, may play a relatively more important role in etioplast biogenesis. The expression of atTOC75-IV is more uniform than that of atTOC75-III; while the expression of atTOC75-III varied 10-fold across the samples tested, atTOC75-IV expression varied just 2-fold (Fig. 2C). Like atTOC75-III, the pea Toc75 gene is also expressed most strongly in young, rapidly dividing tissues (CITATION). Additionally, immunoblot data indicated that psToc75 protein accumulates to a lesser degree in roots than in green tissues (CITATION). These various data on the level and pattern of expression of the Toc75 genes, in combination with the structural characteristics discussed earlier, strongly suggest that atTOC75-III encodes the main ortholog of psToc75 in Arabidopsis. Pea Toc75 is targeted to the chloroplast outer envelope membrane by a bipartite, amino-terminal transit peptide (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, psToc75 targeting involves two different proteolytic processing steps and a transitional molecule of intermediate size (CITATION; CITATION). Similarly, atToc75-III is also imported into chloroplasts in a two-step process involving an intermediate (CITATION; Fig. 3A). Since atTOC75-IV lacks the large first exon present in atTOC75-III (Fig. 1A), which encodes the bipartite transit peptide, we analyzed the atToc75-IV amino acid sequence using the transit peptide prediction program, TargetP (CITATION). TargetP predicts that atToc75-IV does not have a transit peptide, and so it seems likely that atToc75-IV is not targeted in the same manner as atToc75-III and psToc75. It should be noted that it is not uncommon for outer envelope membrane proteins to be inserted into the membrane without the aid of a transit peptide (CITATION). In fact, psToc75 and atToc75-III are unique in that they are the only outer envelope proteins known to utilize a transit peptide for insertion. [[FIGURE]] Common characteristics of outer envelope membrane proteins that lack a cleavable transit peptide are a small to moderate overall size and, in some cases, a well-defined hydrophobic region (CITATION; CITATION). Since atToc75-IV is relatively small (44 kD), we investigated the possibility that it is targeted by a similar mechanism. To this end, in vitro translated atToc75-IV was incubated with isolated pea chloroplasts under conditions favoring protein import. As expected, atToc75-IV efficiently associated with chloroplasts, and, in contrast with atToc75-III, was not processed to a lower molecular mass form during the experiment (Fig. 3A). Unlike the two Toc75 isoforms, a control protein that is normally targeted to peroxisomes (firefly luciferase) was not found to associate significantly with chloroplasts. Imported atToc75-IV was exclusively associated with the membrane fraction of chloroplasts and was resistant to extraction under high pH conditions, strongly suggesting that atToc75-IV is an integral membrane protein. By contrast, a peripheral protein of the inner envelope membrane, psTic22, was susceptible to extraction under alkaline conditions (Fig. 3A), as expected (CITATION). To further confirm the proper targeting of imported atToc75-IV, and to provide some clues about its suborganellar localization, we conducted postimport protease treatment experiments (Fig. 3, B–D). Four different precursors were imported into isolated pea chloroplasts, and then the chloroplasts were treated with three different concentrations of trypsin, or in the absence of trypsin; trypsin is a protease that is able to penetrate the outer envelope membrane and so gain access to proteins exposed in the intermembrane space, but not the inner envelope membrane (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Bands corresponding to imported proteins were quantified, and the data from two independent experiments are shown in Figure 3B. As expected, atToc75-III was almost completely degraded by trypsin (CITATION; CITATION), whereas tp110-N110 (a truncated derivative of psTic110 that was previously shown to insert into the inner envelope membrane; CITATION) was completely trypsin resistant (Fig. 3B). In contrast with atToc75-III, atToc75-IV was substantially resistant to trypsin treatment, to about the same extent as the intermembrane-space-exposed protein, psTic22 (CITATION; Fig. 3B). Since the atToc75-IV translation product was not inherently trypsin resistant (Fig. 3C), and since the protease tolerance of the imported protein was dependent upon membrane integrity (Fig. 3D), these data again suggest that atToc75-IV was properly targeted to the chloroplasts in these assays. The fact that atToc75-IV was more trypsin-tolerant than atToc75-III may be interpreted in two different ways: either (1) atToc75-IV is present in the outer envelope membrane, like atToc75-III, but takes on a topology (or forms an assembly with other components) that makes it less accessible to trypsin; or (2) atToc75-IV is located inside of the outer envelope membrane, like psTic22 and psTic110. Given that atToc75-IV is an integral membrane protein (Fig. 3A) and yet is not trypsin-tolerant to the same extent as tp110-110N (Fig. 3B), we favor the former possibility. To determine if the targeting of atToc75-IV occurs in similar fashion in Arabidopsis, we conducted similar import experiments with isolated Arabidopsis chloroplasts. Like atToc75-IV imported into pea chloroplasts (Fig. 3A), atToc75-IV imported into Arabidopsis chloroplasts (as well as endogenous atToc75-III) was exclusively associated with the membranes and completely resistant to extraction under high salt and high pH conditions (data not shown). In an additional experiment, postimport treatment of the chloroplasts with thermolysin (a protease that cannot penetrate the outer envelope membrane; CITATION) was conducted. While atToc75-IV was not proteolytically processed during the import assay (Fig. 4A, compare lanes 1 and 2), the imported protein was nevertheless substantially resistant to thermolysin treatment at the end of the assay (Fig. 4A, compare lanes 5 and 6), suggesting that the protein had become integrated into the chloroplast envelope. [[FIGURE]] To verify that imported atToc75-IV was associated with the envelope membranes, we conducted fractionation experiments on Arabidopsis chloroplasts containing imported atToc75-IV protein (Fig. 4B). We expected to find that atToc75-IV is envelope-associated for two reasons. First, to date, only two proteins have been shown to gain access to the chloroplast interior without the aid of a transit peptide (CITATION; CITATION). Second, two proteins that are very closely related to atToc75-IV (atToc75-III and psToc75) have been shown to localize to the envelope (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Like endogenous atToc75-III and atTic110, imported atToc75-IV was detected in the whole chloroplast, total membrane, and envelope membrane preparations, but was completely absent from the thylakoid membrane preparation (Fig. 4B). By contrast, the control protein, light harvesting chlorophyll a/b-binding protein (LHCP), was detected in the whole chloroplast, total membrane, and thylakoid membrane preparations, but not in the envelope membrane preparation. We therefore conclude that imported atToc75-IV is an integral envelope membrane protein. To confirm that atToc75-IV is also localized to chloroplasts in vivo, we probed whole chloroplast protein samples with antibodies raised against an atToc75-IV-specific peptide. Two independent antisera recognized several different protein bands in wild-type and toc75-IV mutant chloroplasts, but no differences were observed between the genotypes in either case (Fig. 4C, lanes 1 and 3; data not shown). These data, together with the various lines of evidence indicating low atTOC75-IV transcript abundance in wild type (see earlier), suggested that atToc75-IV is a low abundance protein. To facilitate its detection, we also analyzed chloroplast samples from two transgenic lines overexpressing the atTOC75-IV cDNA (Fig. 2B). Chloroplasts from both overexpressor lines contained a protein of approximately 44 kD that was specifically detected by both atToc75-IV antisera, but not by the corresponding preimmune sera (Fig. 4C, lane 5; data not shown). The apparent molecular mass of the detected protein (44 kD) matched exactly the apparent molecular mass of the atToc75-IV in vitro translation product (data not shown) and the predicted molecular mass of the atToc75-IV protein (Fig. 1, A and B). The antibodies also detected an approximately 44-kD protein in envelope membranes isolated from the overexpressor line chloroplasts (Fig. 4C, lane 6; data not shown), which implies that the endogenous protein is localized in similar fashion to in vitro translated atToc75-IV (Fig. 4B). These data therefore support our conclusions drawn from the in vitro import experiments, i.e. that atToc75-IV is a chloroplast envelope membrane protein and that it is targeted without the aid of a cleavable transit peptide. Most outer envelope membrane proteins are synthesized at their mature size without a cleavable transit peptide (CITATION; CITATION). Unlike stromal proteins, these outer membrane proteins do not seem to require high ATP concentrations or thermolysin-sensitive envelope components for targeting to the chloroplast, indicating that they do not utilize the complete Toc/Tic complex for import (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In an attempt to shed light on the atToc75-IV targeting mechanism, we conducted import assays under ATP-limiting conditions (Fig. 5). In vitro translated, ATP-depleted atToc75-IV and Rubisco small subunit precursor (preSSU) were each incubated with ATP-depleted chloroplasts under import conditions (CITATION; CITATION). The control protein, preSSU, was not imported and processed by the chloroplasts unless 5 mm ATP was included in the import buffer, confirming that ATP had been successfully depleted from both the chloroplasts and the in vitro translated precursors. By contrast, atToc75-IV localized to the membrane fraction whether or not ATP was included in the import buffer (Fig. 5), demonstrating that the membrane insertion of atToc75-IV does not require ATP at the high concentrations necessary for translocation into the stroma. While these data demonstrate that the targeting of atToc75-IV differs significantly from that of preSSU, they do not reveal a difference between the atToc75-IV and atToc75-III/psToc75 targeting mechanisms, since psToc75 targeting was also shown to proceed at low ATP concentrations (approximately 50 μm; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the roles of the atToc75-III and atToc75-IV proteins in vivo, we identified T-DNA or transposon knockout lines for each gene. Two independent alleles of each knockout mutation were identified (Fig. 1A). In each case, the independent alleles behaved identically, indicating that the mutant phenotypes observed were due to the T-DNA or transposon insertions, rather than secondary, unlinked mutations. Unless stated otherwise, the toc75-III-1 and toc75-IV-1 alleles were used to generate the data presented below. All four knockout lines contained single-site insertions, based on the segregation of the insertion-associated marker genes (Table I). Families derived from heterozygous toc75-IV plants segregated three resistant plants for every one sensitive plant when plated on selective medium (Table I), indicating standard Mendelian inheritance. By contrast, families derived from heterozygous toc75-III-1 plants contained only two resistant plants for every one sensitive plant, and families derived from heterozygous toc75-III-2 plants segregated approximately two heterozygous plants for every one wild-type plant when tested by PCR (Table I). Furthermore, all toc75-III mutant plants tested by PCR (60 plants for toc75-III-1 and 35 plants for toc75-III-2) were found to be hemizygous for the corresponding T-DNA insertion. These data indicate that homozygous atToc75-III knockout mutations, unlike homozygous atToc75-IV mutations, are lethal during an early stage of development. Segregation of the T-DNA-associated antibiotic resistance marker in each Toc75 knockout mutant None of the single mutant seedlings (toc75-III heterozygotes and toc75-IV homozygotes) displayed obvious visible or chlorophyll accumulation phenotypes (Fig. 6). The absence of a phenotype in toc75-III heterozygotes indicates that the knockout mutation is recessive and that one atTOC75-III allele is sufficient to support normal growth under the conditions tested. The absence of a phenotype in toc75-IV homozygotes may reflect a degree of redundancy between atToc75-IV and other proteins, such as atToc75-III, or the nonessential nature of atToc75-IV under the conditions tested. In an attempt to reveal a phenotype for atToc75-IV, we generated double mutants by crossing toc75-IV-1 with toc75-III-1 and the atToc33 knockout mutant, ppi1, which displays protein import defects and a pronounced yellow-green phenotype (CITATION; CITATION). Double mutants that were heterozygous for toc75-III and homozygous for toc75-IV (genotype, +/toc75-III; toc75-IV/toc75-IV) did not display any obvious visible phenotypes (Fig. 6). Furthermore, an extensive analysis of siblings among the progeny of plants that were homozygous for toc75-IV and heterozygous for toc75-III revealed no significant effect of a single toc75-III allele in the toc75-IV homozygous background (Fig. 6B). These data suggest that, if there is functional redundancy between the two proteins, a single atTOC75-III allele is sufficiently potent to compensate for the complete loss of atToc75-IV protein under normal circumstances. Similarly, even in the compromised, import-defective ppi1 background, the toc75-IV mutation did not give rise to any obvious visible phenotypes (Fig. 6). [[FIGURE]] Like the toc75-IV mutants, the previously identified atToc34 knockout mutants, ppi3-1 and ppi3-2, exhibit no obvious visible phenotypes in aerial tissues (CITATION). However, the ppi3 mutants were found to display growth defects in the roots, a result that was interpreted to indicate an important role for atToc34 in the import of nonphotosynthetic proteins. To assess the possibility that the atToc75-IV protein plays a similar role in nonphotosynthetic protein import, we conducted root growth measurements much like those described previously (CITATION). However, repeated measurements of plants grown under long-day conditions for 10 d (in total, approximately 100 plants of each genotype were measured) revealed no root length differences between the wild type and toc75-IV-1 or toc75-IV-2 (data not shown). Since homozygous toc75-III seedlings could not be identified in the progeny of heterozygous toc75-III plants (Table I), we determined the stage of development at which the growth of toc75-III homozygotes terminates. In siliques of heterozygous toc75-III plants, aborted seeds were present at a frequency of approximately 25% (Table II; Fig. 7, K and L). This indicates that homozygous toc75-III mutations are embryo lethal, which is consistent with the notion that atToc75-III is the main Arabidopsis ortholog of psToc75 and with the fact that Toc75 plays a key, channel-forming role in the protein import mechanism. The frequency of aborted seed in toc75-III siliques Maturing siliques from at least four different plants of each genotype were scored for the presence of normal seed, infertile ovules, and aborted seed. [[FIGURE]] To determine the exact stage at which development of homozygous toc75-III embryos terminates, we used Nomarski optics to observe developing seeds in heterozygous toc75-III siliques of different ages (Table III). Approximately 75% of embryos were observed to develop normally (Fig. 7, A–E). However, approximately 25% of the embryos in heterozygous toc75-III siliques did not develop beyond the two-cell stage (Fig. 7, F–I); i.e. when the normal embryos were at late globular stage (Fig. 7D), approximately 25% of the developing embryos had just two nuclei in the single apical embryo proper cell (Fig. 7I). When the normal embryos reached the heart stage (Fig. 7E), approximately 25% of the seed aborted (Fig. 7J). Additionally, the suspensor of homozygous toc75-III seed did not develop normally and was arrested after a single transverse division of the basal cell after the first zygotic division. Moreover, the free nuclear endosperm showed limited divisions and failed to cellularize, leading to nuclear fragmentation (Fig. 7I). Thus, we conclude that embryo development in toc75-III homozygotes arrests at the two-cell stage, and that this defect, together with endosperm failure, leads to seed abortion. Distribution of embryo phenotypes within single siliques of the toc75-III-1 mutant Embryo stages are referred to by the number of cells in the embryo proper or by the shape of the embryo proper. Since homozygous toc75-IV seedlings were found to have no obvious visible phenotypes (Fig. 6), we sought to identify a mutant phenotype by conducting more detailed studies. First, we compared the ability of isolated wild-type and toc75-IV mutant chloroplasts to import two different precursor proteins (preSSU and the 33-kD oxygen evolving complex precursor, preOE33), using published procedures (CITATION; CITATION). However, no significant differences were observed (data not shown). Next, we used electron microscopy to analyze the ultrastructure of chloroplasts in the primary leaves of 10-d-old, light-grown plants. Electron micrographs of approximately 20 different plastids each from wild type and toc75-IV-1 were studied and quantified with respect to cross-sectional area and overall shape of the plastid, the number of starch grains, plastoglobuli and granal stacks per plastid, and the number of thylakoid membranes per granum. These data were analyzed statistically, but no significant differences between the wild-type and mutant chloroplasts could be detected (data not shown). The expression data presented earlier (Fig. 2 and related discussion) suggest that atTOC75-IV may play a relatively more important role in etioplasts. We therefore analyzed the ultrastructure of etioplasts from 3-d-old, dark-grown wild-type and toc75-IV seedlings. While the prolamellar bodies and prothylakoids of toc75-IV etioplasts looked normal, we observed that some etioplasts contained enclosed bodies of cytosol, each apparently surrounded by normal envelope membrane (Fig. 8). We examined a relatively large number of etioplasts from wild-type, toc75-IV-1, and toc75-IV-2 seedlings, scored the number of etioplasts with cytosolic inclusions in each case, and then statistically analyzed the data (Table IV). Although approximately 20% of the wild-type etioplasts contained cytosolic inclusions, both toc75-IV alleles contained significantly more cytosolic inclusions than wild-type etioplasts (Table IV). The data were analyzed using the chi-squared test, and, because there are only two categories of data (one degree of freedom), we applied the Yates' correction, which makes the analysis more stringent. The null hypothesis that there was no significant difference between the wild-type and mutant data sets tested was rejected (critical χ2-value = 3.84, P-value = 0.05), and so we conclude that mutant toc75-IV etioplasts contain significantly more cytosolic inclusions than wild-type etioplasts. [[FIGURE]] The frequency of cytosolic inclusions in the etioplasts of toc75-IV and 35S-atTOC75-IV seedlings To investigate further the role of atToc75-IV, we transformed wild-type plants with an atTOC75-IV overexpression construct using the floral dip method (CITATION). Twelve independent transformants were identified and shown to overexpress the atTOC75-IV gene by RT-PCR (data not shown). When grown in the light, these plants did not display any obvious phenotypes (data not shown). To assess the effect of atTOC75-IV overexpression on the cytosolic inclusions observed in the toc75-IV mutants (Table IV; Fig. 8), we examined the etioplasts of dark-grown seedlings in two of these transformed lines by electron microscopy. These two lines were estimated to display at least 30-fold increased levels of atTOC75-IV mRNA expression, relative to wild type, by RT-PCR (Fig. 2B). Remarkably, etioplasts from seedlings overexpressing atTOC75-IV contained significantly fewer cytosolic inclusions than wild-type etioplasts (Table IV). To assess whether or not the transgenic data deviated to a significant degree from the corresponding wild-type data, we again employed the chi-squared test with the Yates' correction. This analysis confirmed that the etioplasts of both transgenic lines contained significantly fewer cytosolic inclusions than wild-type etioplasts. We also found that there was no significant difference between the two wild-type samples (Table IV; χ2-value = 1.68, P-value = 0.19), which were grown on separate occasions for comparison with the toc75-IV mutants and atTOC75-IV overexpression lines. Thus, these data strongly suggest that atToc75-IV has a role in etioplasts. Expression (Fig. 2) and electron microscopy (Table IV; Fig. 8) data pointed toward a role for atToc75-IV in the etioplasts of dark-grown plants. To corroborate these findings, we carefully examined etiolated toc75-IV mutant plants for evidence of growth and developmental defects. First of all, we simply measured hypocotyl growth in dark-grown plants. However, repeated measurements of plants grown in the dark for either 5, 6, or 9 d (in total, approximately 800 plants of each genotype were measured) revealed no hypocotyl length differences between the wild type, toc75-IV-1, and toc75-IV-2 (data not shown). Since the most important function of etioplasts is the initiation of chloroplast development, following exposure to light, we next examined the ability of the toc75-IV mutants to undergo deetiolation. Wild-type and mutant plants were grown in the dark for 6 d and then transferred to continuous white light for a further period of 2 d. At the end of the 2-d light period, the plants were scored for visible evidence of deetiolation. Plants with green, expanded cotyledons were scored as having undergone deetiolation, whereas those with yellow, unexpanded cotyledons were scored as having failed to undergo deetiolation (Fig. 9A). This experiment was repeated 11 times, using multiple fresh batches of seed for each genotype (all of which were of the same age and produced by plants grown under identical conditions), including the same seed batches that were used to make the root and hypocotyl length measurements described earlier. Although the experiment was subject to substantial variability, presumably due to the stochastic nature of the deetiolation response and its acute sensitivity to environmental factors, the results revealed a significant difference between both toc75-IV mutants and the wild type (Fig. 9, B and C). In several individual experiments, a striking difference was observed between the mutants and wild type (e.g. Fig. 9B). In other experiments, this difference was less pronounced. Overall, however, the combined data of all 11 experiments (in total, >2,500 plants of each genotype were scored) revealed an approximately 50% reduction in deetiolation efficiency in the mutants by comparison with wild type (Fig. 9C). The combined toc75-IV-1 and toc75-IV-2 data sets were each statistically significantly different from the wild-type data set, as revealed by a Student's t test (P-values = 0.000016 and 0.0056, respectively); by contrast, the same test indicated that the two mutant data sets were not significantly different from each other (P-value = 0.073). These results demonstrate a physiological role for the atToc75-IV protein, most likely in etioplast biogenesis and/or the etioplast-chloroplast transition. They are also supportive of the ultrastructural data presented in Table IV and Figure 8, as well as of the data indicating that atToc75-IV is a plastidic protein shown in Figures 3 and 4. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Amino acid sequences were aligned using ClustalW within the BioEdit program (CITATION). Phylogenetic trees were calculated using PAUP* 4.0 b10 (CITATION). All analyses were performed using branch and bound searches, with the “collapse” option and “furthest” addition sequence selected. No weighting or ordering was imposed on the characters, and any gaps were treated as missing data. Indels were coded separately and appended to the sequence data matrix. Coding of indels was usually binary (deletions 0, insertions 1), but in places where more than one size occurred, the alternatives were coded as 2, 3, etc. Support for clades was estimated by means of non-parametric bootstrap analyses, as implemented in PAUP* 4.0, using 1,000 replicates. All Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants, both wild type and mutant, used in this study were of the Columbia-0 ecotype. For in vitro growth on Murashige and Skoog media, Arabidopsis seeds were surface-sterilized, and plants were grown at 20°C under a long-day cycle (16-h light/8-h dark) of 120 μmol photons m−2 s−1 white light, as described previously (CITATION). When necessary, the following antibiotics were included in the medium at the indicated concentrations: 15 μg/mL hygromycin B (Duchefa, Haarlem, The Netherlands) to select for toc75-III-1; 50 μg/mL kanamycin monosulfate (Melford Laboratories, Ipswich, UK) to select for toc75-III-2; 10 μg/mL DL-phosphinothricin (Duchefa) to select for toc75-IV-1 and toc75-IV-2; and 110 μg/mL gentamicin sulfate (Duchefa) to select for pCHF2 transformants. For growth on soil, Arabidopsis plants were kept under standard greenhouse conditions, with a long-day cycle (16-h light, 8-h dark) and supplemental lighting when necessary. Pea (Pisum sativum) plants were of the Little Marvel variety (SeedWay, Elizabethtown, PA). Pea seeds were soaked overnight with aeration, sown in vermiculite, and then allowed to grow at 20°C under a 12-h-light/12-h-dark cycle of approximately 30 μmol photons m−2 s−1 white light for 11 to 14 d. RNA was isolated according to CITATION. RNA samples (20 μg) were treated with DNAse I according to the manufacturer's instructions (DNA-free; Ambion, Austin, TX), quantified spectrophotometrically, and then analyzed on 1.3% (w/v) agarose gels containing 1.85% (v/v) formaldehyde and MOPS buffer (20 mm MOPS, 1 mm EDTA, 50 mm NaOAc, pH 7.0) to confirm concentration and quality. For RT-PCR analysis, first-strand cDNA was synthesized using 5 μg of total RNA, a primer with the sequence 5′-(T)17(A/G/C)N-3′, and SuperScript II RNase H− reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA), according to the manufacturer's instructions. PCR amplifications were performed using the following primer pairs: atTOC75-I, forward (priF1 5′-TGG GCA TCG ATC GTG TAG CA-3′, priF2 5′-AGT ATT GTT CCT GAT CCC-3′, priF3 5′-ATA TCG AGA TCA TGC CAA T-3′), reverse (priR1 5′-AAG CTC AGC ACC AAC CTT TA-3′, priR2 5′-TGT CCC TCT CTT CTG AAA GCC-3′); atTOC75-III, forward (5′-CGT ATC TGG ATG GTG TTT ACA ATC-3′), reverse (5′-GGA ATT CTT AAT ACC TCT CTC CAA ATC GGA AGA AC-3′); atTOC75-IV, forward (5′-CCA ATG TTT GTG GGT CGA GAT T-3′), reverse (5′-GGC TGC AGT TAG TAT CTC TCC CCG AAC C-3′); atTOC33, forward (5′-GGT CTC TCG TTC GTG AAT GG-3′), reverse (5′-CTG AGC GCC TAT GAT AAG AG-3′); eIF4E1, forward (5′-AAA CAA TGG CGG TAG AAG ACA CTC-3′), reverse (5′-AAG ATT TGA GAG GTT TCA AGC GGT GTA AG-3′). Each primer combination spanned an intron. For the expression profiles shown in Figure 2, PCRs used the minimum number of cycles necessary to observe a faint band following staining with ethidium bromide (atTOC75-III, 20 cycles; atTOC75-IV, 25 cycles; eIF4E1, 20 cycles). Products were resolved by agarose gel electrophoresis, blotted onto Hybond NX membrane (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala), and hybridized with gene-specific probes amplified using the primers listed above, according to the manufacturer's instructions (Amersham Biosciences, Little Chalfont, UK). Bands were visualized using a phosphorimager and quantified using ImageQuant software (Molecular Dynamics, Sunnyvale, CA). atTOC75-III and atTOC75-IV data were normalized using similar data for the uniformly expressed translation initiation factor gene, eIF4E1 (gene no. At4g18040; CITATION). The atTOC75-IV mRNA was characterized by RACE-PCR using the SMART RACE cDNA amplification kit (CLONTECH, Palo Alto, CA) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The gene-specific primers used were as follows: 5′RACE (5′-GCT GAA TGA AAC TTG TTA ATG ATA GT-3′ and 5′-AAT CTC GAC CCA CAA ACA TTG G-3′); 3′RACE (5′-CCA ATG TTT GTG GGT CGA GAT T-3′ and 5′-ACT ATC ATT AAC AAG TTT CAT TCA GC-3′). Sequences of the 5′ and 3′ RACE-PCR products were determined and then used to design primers for the amplification of a full-length cDNA clone by RT-PCR: forward, 5′-AAC TGC AGA ACA ATA TAG AGA GAA AGA AG-3′; reverse, 5′-CCA TCG ATG GAA AGA AAG CAG CAC AAA GTC-3′. The PCR product was cloned into pGEM-T Easy (Promega, Madison, WI), verified by sequencing, and then subcloned as a SacII/SpeI fragment into pBlueScript II KS− (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). For overexpression in Arabidopsis plants, the atTOC75-IV cDNA was subcloned as a SacI/SalI fragment into the plant transformation/expression vector, pCHF2, which incorporates a double enhancer version of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (CITATION). For the pea import experiments, transcription/translation was performed in a coupled system containing rabbit reticulocyte lysate, [35S]Met, and T7 RNA polymerase, according to the manufacturer's instructions (TNT T7 Coupled Reticulocyte Lysate System; Promega). Plasmid DNA was used as template directly. The plasmids used have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), are described in this report (atTOC75-IV; see above), or were supplied with the translation system (Luc; Promega). For the Arabidopsis import experiments, templates were amplified from cDNA clones by PCR using M13 primers. The atTOC75-III template was amplified from cDNA clone, APZL59c10R (the insert was subcloned into pBlueScript II KS- to enable use of the T7 promoter), and the atTOC75-IV template was amplified from the pBlueScript II KS− clone described above; the preSSU cDNA clone was described previously (CITATION). Transcription/translation was performed in a coupled system containing rabbit reticulocyte lysate, [35S]Met, and T7 RNA polymerase, according to the manufacturer's instructions (TNT T7 Quick for PCR DNA; Promega). Pea chloroplast isolations and in vitro import experiments, including high pH extractions and trypsin treatments, were carried out according to CITATION, except that import reactions were conducted for 30 min instead of 20 min. Arabidopsis chloroplast isolations and in vitro import experiments were carried out essentially as described by CITATION, with one exception: the chloroplasts used for the experiments shown in Figure 4C were isolated as described by CITATION. All import reactions were incubated for 20 min at 25°C unless stated otherwise. Thermolysin reactions contained 60 μg/mL thermolysin, 300 μm CaCl2, and were conducted for 5 min on ice. Control thermolysin reactions lacking chloroplasts contained 10% of the amount of translation mixture added to import reactions, since only approximately 10% of added 35S-labeled atToc75-IV associates with chloroplasts in import assays. For fractionation studies, chloroplasts were burst by incubation in 10 mm HEPES, 10 mm MgCl2, pH 8.0 (bursting buffer) for 10 min on ice. Total membrane samples were collected by centrifugation at 100,000g for 1 h. Thylakoid membranes were prepared according to CITATION. Envelope membranes were prepared as follows. Burst chloroplasts were centrifuged at 2,600g for 8 min. The supernatant was retained, and then centrifuged again in the same way. This procedure was repeated once more, and then the remaining membranes (envelopes only) were collected from the supernatant by centrifugation at 100,000g for 1 h. The atToc75-III protein was detected using an antibody raised against purified psToc75 (CITATION) or using an antibody raised against a synthetic, atToc75-III-specific peptide (MDSDMTDKEKLEYYRC; Eurogentec S.A., Herstal, Belgium); both antibodies recognized recombinant atToc75-III (data not shown). The atToc75-IV protein was detected using an antibody raised against a synthetic, atToc75-IV-specific peptide (ENRRISENGLLLSPDC; Eurogentec S.A.). The Tic110, Tic40, OE33, OE23 and LHCP antibodies have all been described previously and were gifts from Kenneth Keegstra (Michigan State University; Tic110 and Tic40), Steven Theg (University of California, Davis; OE33 and OE23), and Neil Hoffman (National Science Foundation; LHCP). The mutants used in this study were obtained from the Csaba Koncz Laboratory (CITATION), Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory (SIGnAL; CITATION), Sainsbury Laboratory Arabidopsis Transposants (SLAT; CITATION), and Syngenta (CITATION) collections, using published procedures. Mutant identification details are as follows: toc75-III-1 (Csaba Koncz Laboratory, pool 345, line 3449); toc75-III-2 (SIGnAL line SALK_15928); toc75-IV-1 (SLAT, superpool 6, subpool 25); toc75-IV-2 (Syngenta, line Garlic_192_B10). The toc75-III-2 mutant was supplied to us via the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC; accession no. N515928). All of the mutants contained T-DNA insertions, except toc75-IV-1, which contained a stable transposon (dSpm) insertion. The kanamycin-resistance marker of the toc75-III-2 T-DNA insertion was inactive due to silencing effects; this is a problem associated with approximately 20% of the SIGnAL T-DNA lines (CITATION). Gene-specific primers and insertion-specific primers (for the T-DNA left and right borders, LB and RB, or the 5′ and 3′ ends of the dSpm insertion) were used to follow the mutations by PCR. Plant DNA for PCR analysis was extracted as described previously (CITATION). Primer combinations used for these analyses were as follows: atTOC75-III (5′ gene-specific, 5′-GAA GCT GAA TTA TAG GAC TCA CAT TTG TAG-3′; 3′ gene-specific, 5′-CTC AGA TGC AGA CAG ACG TGT TAC C-3′; toc75-III-1 LB, 5′-CTG GGA ATG GCG AAA TCA AGG CAT C-3′; toc75-III-2 LB, 5′-GCG TGG ACC GCT TGC TGC AAC T-3′); atTOC75-IV (5′ gene-specific, 5′-CCA ATG TTT GTG GGT CGA GAT T-3′ or 5′-CCG AGC TCA TGG ATT TCT TCT TTG TTG TTC AGG-3′; 3′ gene-specific, 5′-GCT GAA TGA AAC TTG TTA ATG ATA GT-3′; 5′ dSpm-specific, 5′-GGT GCA GCA AAA CCC ACA CTT TTA CTT C-3′; 3′ dSpm-specific, 5′-GTC CAT TTT AGA GTG ACG GCT AAG AGT G-3′; toc75-IV-2 LB, 5′-TAG CAT CTG AAT TTC ATA ACC AAT CTC GAT ACA C-3′). PCR products corresponding to the insertion junctions were sequenced to verify the location of each T-DNA or transposon (Fig. 1A). Single-locus insertion lines were identified for each mutant (Table I); for toc75-IV-1 and toc75-IV-2, homozygotes derived from these lines were used for further study. Chlorophyll determinations and transmission electron microscopy were carried out as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Transmission electron microscopy was carried out at the Electron Microscope Laboratory, Faculty of Medicine and Biological Sciences, University of Leicester. Siliques of different lengths were dissected on a microscope slide using syringe needle under a dissecting microscope (model Stemi-SV8, Zeiss, Germany). Embryos were cleared with a drop of clearing solution (240 g of chloral hydrate and 30 g of glycerol in 90 mL of water) for 30 min at room temperature. Preparations were examined with a microscope (model BHS, Olympus Optical, Tokyo) equipped for differential interference contrast (model BH2-NIC, Olympus). Images were captured and processed as previously described (CITATION). Upon request, all novel materials described in this publication will be made available in a timely manner for noncommercial research purposes, subject to the requisite permission from any third-party owners of all or parts of the material. Obtaining any permissions will be the responsibility of the requestor. Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession numbers N515928, At4g18040, AY127014, AL096859, At3g46740, NM_116977, AY585655, AAT08975, At4g09080, BK005428, and BX827624.
