!~ABS~! Expression of the genes of plastidial psbB operon (psbB-psbT-psbH-petB-petD) involves multiple processing events and formation of several mono-, di- and multi-cistronic transcripts which are further regulated by differential stability and expression. Here we describe the identification of the HCF107 gene that is involved in the 5′-end processing/stability and/or translation of the psbH gene and in the translation of the psbB gene. HCF107 is an RNA-TPR-containing protein with 11 RTPRs that are tandemly arranged. A single mutation in the third RTPR that changes a conserved alanine residue to a threonine affects both 5′-end-processed psbH transcript accumulation as well as psbB translation, resulting in disruption of PSII and seedling lethal plants. The protein is localized to the plastid membranes and is present as part of a multi-subunit complex in the range of 60–190 and 600–800 kDa. HCF107 thus represents a new member of the growing helical repeat family of proteins that seem to play a gene-specific role in regulating plastidial gene expression and biogenesis.
!~RES~! Fine mapping of HCF107 was carried out with DNA from 423 F3 families (representing 846 meioses) between nga162 and the cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) marker ARLIM15 on chromosome 3 to obtain 20 recombinants on the nga162 side and 31 recombinants on the ARLIM15 side. An additional 13 CAPS markers were generated for fine mapping in the region between 21 and 32 cM. The gene was localized between 23.5 and 24.5 cM. This region was spanned by five BAC/TAC clones and flanked by two recombinants on either side (Figure 1). Sequences of these BAC/TAC clones were screened for genes that encoded polypeptides with putative plastid-targeting signals. Primers were designed against two putative candidate genes that showed similarity to a yeast pre-mRNA splicing protein (At3g17040) and a hypothetical protein (At3g16890). Using these primers, mRNA from Columbia, hcf107-1 and hcf107-2 plants was reverse transcribed and PCR amplified to obtain a 2-kbp product. Interestingly, the RTPCR product for one of the genes (At3g17040) on the TAC clone K14A17 in hcf107-2 was longer by about 200 nt than in the wild type and hcf107-1 mutant (Figure 2). This gene, At3g17040, was later shown to be the HCF107 gene by complementation. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The amplified product of At3g17040 from all three lines was sequenced. It consists of a 1956 nt open reading frame (ORF) with seven introns and encodes a putative polypeptide of 652 amino acids (Figure 3a). It has a plastid-targeted signal peptide of 68 amino acids as predicted by the Chloro-P programme of ExPASY (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP/, CITATION). A characteristic feature of the protein is the presence of 11 tetratricopeptide-like repeats that are arranged in tandem from amino acids 168 to 545. Tetratricopetide repeats are degenerate repeating units of 34 amino acids and are present in units of 3–15 TPRs, often in tandem, in several proteins of diverse functions (reviewed by CITATION). Each TPR consists of two anti-parallel alpha helices designated as helix A and helix B. The entire repeating structure of tandem TPRs is believed to fold into a super helix which possesses grooves for protein–protein interactions (CITATION). However, unlike in classical TPRs, the amino acid sequence of HCF107 revealed some very significant differences in the consensus of the TPRs that make up the repeating units. These included a highly conserved Glu instead of Tyr at position 11, Gly at position 15, an Arg residue at position 21 and Leu at position 24 (Figure 3b). Interestingly, these features are also observed in two other plastid regulatory TPR proteins that are involved in 5′-end processing/stability/translation, viz. NAC2 and MBB1. This peculiar sequence arrangement, described as an R-TPR (RNA-TPR) by CITATION, is common to several TPR-containing proteins that interact with RNA either directly or indirectly and in fact form a sub-class of the TPR family of proteins. A blast search of HCF107 revealed two orthologues in rice and homology to several other TPR-containing proteins of unrelated functions. The homology was, however, confined only to the TPR domains. No known RNA-binding domain was apparent. [[FIGURE]] The sequence of hcf107-1 revealed a single G to A transition that changed an alanine residue at position 244 to threonine. This alanine lies in the third TPR at a very highly conserved position (position 8) in the TPR. Mutation at this position of the TPRs 5 and 7 of CDC23 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae results in mitotic arrest at the metaphase to anaphase transition (CITATION). In hcf107-2, which was obtained from a T-DNA insertion line that had lost its T-DNA, a short, nine nucleotide repeat sequence, TGGTTGGTT, replaced a 17 nt sequence, AAGTGTTTTGTATCATC, in the wild-type gene right at the exon 3–intron 3 border. This replacement results in the formation of a longer repeat sequence, GTTGGTTGGTTGGTTGGTT, and is somewhat reminiscent of the target site duplication that occurs during transposition. Although the GT/AG consensus of the intron does not change, the sequence insertion probably affects the neighbouring splice site sequences. This disturbs the splicing of intron 3 and causes a different 5′-splice site to be recognized 158 nt downstream of the actual splice site in this mutant. The mis-splicing results in a longer exon 3 that includes the 9 nt insertion and 158 nucleotides of intron 3 (Figure 3c). The read-through of exon 3 into intron 3 would result in premature termination of the polypeptide, 27 nt into intron 3 resulting in a truncated polypeptide containing only five TPRs. Transcript termination as determined by 3′-RACE occurs 99 nt downstream of the TGA stop codon. Northern analyses revealed a 2.2-kb transcript in the wild-type Columbia ecotype and hcf107-1 and a 2.4-kb transcript in hcf107-2 (Figure 4). While the transcript levels of hcf107-1 were not different from those of wild type, the steady-state levels of hcf107-2 were <30% of the wild-type level. It is likely that the reduced levels of hcf107-2 in this mutant result from the targeted degradation of these transcripts due to the presence of the premature termination codon. Premature nonsense codons are known to activate mRNA decay pathways such as nonsense-mediated decay in several eukaryotic systems including plants to prevent translation of abnormal or truncated polypeptides (reviewed by CITATION; CITATION). Expectedly transcripts were seen in light- but not in dark-grown seedlings and in roots (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Complementation of heterozygous hcf107 plants was carried out by the floral dip method (CITATION) using the full-length cDNA (in pPCV91, containing four enhancer elements in front of the CaMV promoter), a protein A-tagged construct containing 185 amino acids of the protein A in-frame at the C-terminal end of the HCF107 polypeptide (in pPEX001, that has a single copy of the CaMV promoter) and a haemagglutinin (HA)-tagged construct (in pPEX001) containing 10 amino acids of the HA epitope in-frame with the C-terminal end of the HCF107 polypeptide. All transformed homozygous mutant plants showed near-wild type Fv/Fm ratios of 0.82 indicating complementation (data not shown). All three constructs were able to complement the mutant plants indicating that the presence of the protein A and HA tags did not in any way affect the HCF107 function. Northern analyses of RNA from the complemented plants probed with psbH showed the re-appearance of transcripts of sizes 1800 nt (psbH-petB-petD), 1200 nt (psbH-petB) and 400 nt (psbH) that were absent in the mutant plants (Figure 5a). The relative steady-state levels of these transcripts were the same as in control wild-type plants in spite of the higher levels of the HCF107cPA transcripts in the complemented plants. Immunoblots of proteins isolated from complemented plants showed wild-type levels of both PsbH and PsbB (Figure 5b). [[FIGURE]] In order to localize the HCF107 protein in the plastids, stromal and membrane protein fractions were prepared from chloroplasts of mutant plants that had been complemented with the protein A-tagged or HA version of HCF107. The chloroplast membrane fractions were treated with 0.2 m NaCl or 0.2 m Na2CO3 (CITATION) to test whether HCF107 is attached to chloroplast membranes and how stable this association might be. As shown in Figure 6, HCF107 is found to be predominantly associated with the chloroplast membranes with only a small fraction being present in the soluble stromal fraction. The protein remains firmly bound to the membranes in the presence of 0.2 m NaCl but is released partially by treatment with 0.2 m Na2CO3. As sodium carbonate treatment releases peripheral membrane proteins attached by hydrophobic interactions but not integral membrane proteins (CITATION), it indicates that the majority of the HCF107 behaves like a peripheral membrane protein. The same results were obtained using the HA-tagged version of the protein indicating that the membrane association of HCF107 is an inherent property of the protein and not conferred upon by the protein A or HA tag used for detection of the protein. Under the same conditions, PsaD, an integral membrane protein of PSI, was exclusively present in membranes, regardless of the treatments, indicating that the stromal fraction was not contaminated with the membrane fraction and confirming that a small fraction of HCF107 is soluble. The large subunit (RbcL) of ribulose-1.5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase was chosen as a chloroplast protein that is predominantly localized in the stroma, but a fraction of which is associated with thylakoid membranes (cf. CITATION) and can largely be released by treatment with 0.2 m Na2CO3. Taken together, HCF107 shows a heterogenous distribution within the chloroplast. The majority of the protein is attached to chloroplast membranes, while a lesser fraction is soluble. The membrane-associated fraction is not uniform; it can partly be released from the membranes by bicarbonate treatment. [[FIGURE]] HCF107 is a protein with multiple TPRs that are implicated in protein–protein interactions, and is believed to be involved in two independent or interdependent functions, viz. psbH 5′-end transcript processing/stability and psbB translation, although it has no known RNA-binding domain. We therefore investigated if the protein could be present as part of a multi-protein complex. The plastid membranes were solubilized with digitonin and sodium dodecyl maltoside and resolved on a sucrose density gradient to separate the different forms of the two photosystems as described by CITATION. The different fractions were tested by immunoblot analyses for the localization of HCF107. As shown in Figure 7, HCF107 is seen in a broad range of differing molecular sizes ranging from 100 to 800 kDa. The bulk of the protein is present in fractions between 100 and 240 kDa. However, a significant fraction of the HCF107 protein migrates as very high molecular weight complexes ranging in size from 600 to 800 kDa. A similar distribution pattern was also observed with the HA-tagged version of the protein confirming that the size distribution of the epitope-tagged HCF107 complexes was not caused by the use of the epitope. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The mutant hcf107 has been described previously (CITATION; CITATION). It was isolated as a recessive high-chlorophyll fluorescence plant from an EMS-treated population. The allelic mutant hcf107-2 was identified from a collection of T-DNA insertion lines (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) but had lost the T-DNA as evident from loss of coupling to the kanamycin marker. For mutant selection, surface-sterilized seeds were sown on Petri dishes containing 0.3% (w/v) solidified gelrite (Roth, Karlsruhe, Germany) supplemented with 0.5X MS nutrients (CITATION) and 2% (w/v) sucrose. Mutant plants that exhibited high-chlorophyll fluorescence were selected in dark under UV light as described (CITATION). Alternatively, plants were grown in a growth chamber operating at a 16 h light/8 h dark period and a constant temperature of 23°C. For seed collection the Arasystem (Beta Tech, Gent, Belgium) was used. Chlorophyll a fluorescence measurements on wild type, mutant and complemented plants were performed using the pulse amplitude-modulated fluorometer (PAM 101/103; Walz, Effeltrich, Germany) as described by CITATION but using 4-week-old plants. DNA from 30 homozygous mutant plants (in ecotype Columbia) was screened with various microsatellite markers to localize the gene on chromosome 3. For positional cloning, an F2 mapping population of the plants was generated by crossing emasculated flowers of ecotype Landsberg erecta with pollen from plants heterozygous for the mutant hcf107 gene (in Columbia). For fine mapping, DNA from 423 plants was isolated as described by CITATION and screened with the microsatellite marker nga162 (21 cM) and the CAPS marker ARLIM15 (32–36 cM). Recombinants were further fine mapped by generating 14 CAPS markers spanning the region between nga162 and ARLIM15. The sequences of primers used for generating CAPS markers are provided in Table 1. RNA was isolated as described by CITATION. For Northern blot analyses, RNA samples were resolved on a 1.1% formaldehyde agarose gel or conversely denatured by the glyoxal method (CITATION) and transferred onto a nylon membrane (Hybond N from Amersham Pharmacia, Uppsala, Sweden) by capillary transfer. mRNA was purified using the Oligotex mRNA purification kit from Qiagen (Hilden, Germany). Reverse transcription was carried out using SuperscriptII Reverse transcriptase from Invitrogen (Carlsbad, CA, USA). DNA samples were sequenced by AGOWA GmbH (Berlin, Germany). As hybridization probes, restriction fragments harbouring the entire ORF of the corresponding genes were used. Probes were labelled by random priming according to the manufacturer's manual (Megaprime DNA Labelling Kit; Amersham Biosciences, Uppsala, Sweden). For the construction of a clone expressing a C-terminally protein A-tagged version of HCF107 (HCF107-PA), a plasmid harbouring the protein A cassette and a suitable MCS was designed as described by CITATION. Construction of pBS-PA2-2. The protein A cassette containing 185 amino acids of protein A and a TEV site from Staphyllococcus aureus was amplified by touchdown PCR using the oligonucleotides ProA-BclIH (5′-CAGCCTCGAGTGATCACTAGTGGCGCC CTGCAGGTCGACCATGGATCCGAGAATCTTTATTTTCAGGGATCC-3′), containing the new MCS, and ProA-BclIR (5′-ATTTAGTCTAGATGATCAC TAAAGAGCCGCGGAATTCGCA-3′). As template, the yeast vector pYM8-4 was used (W.-H. Kunau, Ruhr-Universität Bochum). The product of this PCR amplification was digested with XbaI and XhoI and inserted into pBluescriptKSII+ (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) digested with the same enzymes resulting in a plasmid called pBS-PA2-2. Construction of pPEX107-PA/39. In a second step, the HCF107 ORF was amplified from the plasmid pPCV91/7/11 by PCR using the oligonucleotides At107-SpeIH (5′-GCGGACTAGTATGCACTTCTTCTTCGTGCCG-3′) and At107-NcoIR (5′- CGCGACTAGTTCAATGGCGTCTCTGCAACTCTGCG-3′). The PCR product was digested with SpeI/NcoI and sub-cloned into pBS-PA2-2. The resulting construct, pBS7/PA2-2, was digested with BclI and the restriction fragment, harbouring the entire HCF107 reading frame with the C-terminally fused protein A tag, was ligated into the BamHI site of the binary Ti vector pPEX001 (a kind gift from Prof. B. Reis, MPIZ Cologne). All constructs were verified by restriction analysis and sequencing. For construction of the HA tag in pBS-HA2, the protein A tag from the plasmid pBS-PA was excised and replaced with the sequence 5′-CCATGGATACCCATACGATGT TCCGGATTACGCTCTCTAGTGATCATCTAGA-3′ containing the HA tag. The HCF107 cDNA was then inserted to produce pPEX107-HA as described above for pBS107-PA using the same primers. The HCF107 gene was amplified by RT-PCR using primers 44F-Bcl (5′-TTTTCATGATCATCATTCTTCTTCCCCGAG-3′), generated 105 nt upstream of the start codon and Cen1R-Bcl (5′-CTTTAAATTGATCATCGACCCTTCATC3-′) generated 62 nt downstream of the stop codon with BclI sites in both primers. The amplified product was digested with BclI and cloned at the BamHI site of pPCV91 and colonies selected for the gene in sense orientation. Recombinant Agrobacteria (strain GV3103) were selected on carbenicillin. As homozygous mutants are lethal, plants heterozygous for hcf107-2 were screened using a simple sequence length polymorphism marker generated using two primers – 5′-CTAGTTGGCTAGT TCTCATCG-3′ and 5′- GCGACTATATGCAATTCAAGGAG-3′. These primers were able to detect an 8-nt deletion (resulting from a rearrangement) in hcf107-2 that is absent in wild-type plants. Conversely, for the screening of heterozygous and homozygous hcf107-2 plants, the following three oligonucleotides were used: WTF (5′-TGGTAAGTGTTTTGTATC-3′), MutF (5′-TTGGTTGGTTGGTTGGTT-3′) and Rev (5′-TACTCCAGCTTCAAACAC-3′). The primer pair MutF/Rev identifies a 537-nt fragment only in the mutant hcf107-2 allele but not in the wild type whereas the primer pair WTF/Rev identifies a 540-nt fragment only in the in the wild type but not in the mutant hcf107-2. For each screened plant two independent PCRs with one of the forward primers (MutF or WTF) and the reverse primer (Rev) were performed to detect for the presence of heterozygotes or homozygotes. Heterozygous plants were transformed by the floral dip method (CITATION). Transformants were selected on hygromycin (20 μg ml−1) for the pPCV91-107 construct or on Basta (10 μg ml−1) for pPEX107PA and pPEX107HA. All transformants were green and none of them showed high-chlorophyll fluorescence. DNA from all transformants was isolated and screened as described above to identify plants homozygous for hcf107-2. These were grown to maturity and subsequent generations checked for stability of the inserted gene. Protein and RNA was isolated from complemented homozygous plants and screened with probes against psbB and psbH. Proteins were electrophoresed on polyacrylamide-SDS/urea gels as described by CITATION and the proteins electrophoretically transferred to nitrocellulose membranes (Protran BA79, 0.1 μm; Schleicher & Schuell, Dassel, Germany) and incubated with specific antibodies. For visualization, the enhanced chemiluminescence technique was used (ECLTM Western Blotting Detection Reagents; Amersham Biosciences). Immunoblots were probed with anti-CP47 and anti-PsbH. Intact chloroplasts were isolated from 4-week-old complemented hcf107-2 Arabidopsis plants, expressing a C-terminal protein A-tagged version of HCF107, by Percoll gradient centrifugation. Chloroplasts were lysed in ice-cold 10 mm HEPES-KOH pH 7.8, 10 mm MgCl2, and stromal and membrane proteins were separated from each other by centrifugation for 10 min at 17 000 g. To study the association of HCF107-PA with the chloroplast membranes, aliquots were washed with lysis buffer (control) or with lysis buffer containing 0.2 m NaCl or 0.2 m Na2CO3 and recovered again by centrifugation. Equal amounts of chlorophyll (40 μg) or the equivalent in the case of the stromal proteins were electrophoresed on 10% polyacrylamide-SDS/urea gels and transferred to nitrocellulose membranes as described above. For detection of the Protein A tag on HCF107, an anti-mouse IgG peroxidase conjugate (Sigma-Aldrich, Munich, Germany) was used. As control for stromal proteins, an antibody against RbcL was used while antibodies against PsaD were used as a control for membrane proteins. The HA-tagged version of the protein was detected using monoclonal antibodies against the HA epitope. Four-week-old plants were homogenized in a Waring blender in 10 ml g−1 tissue Heber A medium (330 mm Sorbitol, 88 mm MES/NaOH, pH 6.1, 10 mm NaCl, 1 mm MgCl2, 0.5 mm KH2PO4, 0.2 mm EDTA) for 2 × 2 sec and filtered through three layers of Miracloth. The filtrate was centrifuged at 5850 g in a GSA rotor (Sorvall centrifuge RC 5B, Sorvall, Newton, CT, USA) and the chloroplast pellet was lysed on ice in lysis buffer (5× pellet volume) containing 10 mm HEPES/KOH (pH 7.8), 10 mm MgCl2 and 25 mm KCl. The membranes were solubilized by the addition of 1.5% digitonin for 30 min on ice at a chlorophyll concentration of 1 mg ml−1. The lysate was centrifuged at 15 000 g for 20 min at 4°C to remove the insoluble matter, while the supernatant was used for further analyses either on sucrose gradient or by SDS-PAGE. This was carried out essentially as described by CITATION. The solubilized plastid membranes obtained above were incubated with 0.5% (w/v) n-dodecyl-β-d-maltoside on ice and 500 μl of this sample was loaded on a linear 12.5 ml sucrose gradient (0.1–1 m sucrose prepared in lysis medium containing 0.06%n-dodecyl-β-d-maltoside). The gradient was centrifuged at 180 000 g for 16.5 h at 4°C on an SW40 Ti rotor (Beckman, Munich, Germany). After centrifugation, 13 fractions (1 ml each) were collected starting from the bottom. The proteins from each fraction were precipitated with 15% TCA on ice and solubilized in 60–80 μl gel loading buffer [50 mm Na2CO3, 5% (w/v) sucrose, 25 mm DTT] containing 2.5% (w/v) SDS and 0.01% (w/v) bromophenol blue and resolved by SDS-PAGE. Proteins were transferred on immunoblots for immunolocalization of HCF107 as described above. Gels were also visualized by Coomassie blue staining or by silver staining. For molecular weight estimation of the localized protein, the High Molecular Weight Native Marker Kit (Amersham Biosciences) containing markers of sizes 669 kDa (thyroglobulin), 232 kDa (catalase), 140 kDa (lactate dehydrogenase) and 66 kDa (bovine serum albumin) were separated in a parallel gradient and visualized by SDS-PAGE.
