!~ABS~! The cell division cycle involves nuclear and cytoplasmic events, namely organelle multiplication and distribution between the daughter cells. Until now, plastid and plant cell division have been considered as independent processes because they can be uncoupled. Here, down-regulation of AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b, members of the prereplication complex, is shown to alter both nuclear DNA replication and plastid division in Arabidopsis thaliana. These data constitute molecular evidence for relationships between the cell-cycle and plastid division. Moreover, the severe developmental defects observed in AtCDT1-RNA interference (RNAi) plants underline the importance of coordinated cell and organelle division for plant growth and morphogenesis.
!~RES~!  Down-Regulation of AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b Results in Severe Developmental Defects. It has been reported that a single RNAi construct can silence up to three genes with similar sequences (CITATION). To investigate the function of AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b, we set up RNAi constructs to silence both genes at once. We used a cDNA fragment of AtCDT1b chosen in the 3′ coding region, well conserved between the two cDNA: they share 62% identity in this region (see Fig. 5, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site) versus an overall identity of 52%. Among 96 T1 kanamycin-resistant plantlets, 5 plants displayed obvious developmental alterations (FIG-REF). These independent T1 lines had a reduced stature but showed no delay in flowering time. Their leaves were pale green, crumpled, and smaller than those of WT plants. Nevertheless, chloral hydrate treatment of the leaves revealed that vascular tissues differentiate properly in AtCDT1-RNAi plants because the overall organization of the leaf is comparable with that observed in WT (FIG-REF). The leaves of AtCDT1-RNAi plants observed by SEM had a bumpy surface whereas WT leaves are flat (FIG-REF). This was due to the distribution of the cells over the leaf surface: the largest cells were clustered on bumps and the smallest ones in hollows. The stomata also seemed to be clustered in hollows rather than homogeneously spread over the whole leaf surface as they are normally. In the WT, projected cell areas range from 60 μm2 to 15,000 μm2 and three classes of cell area can be determined: areas ≤300 μm2, areas 300–3,000 μm2, and areas ≥3,000 μm2. The minimum and maximum cell areas in CDT1-RNAi plants were the same as in WT, but their frequencies were different. Indeed, these plants simply had more cells in the two smaller categories (Table 1). Surprisingly, the reduction in the average cell area was only 2-fold in AtCDT1-RNAi plants, which is not enough to account for the reduction in size of these plants, suggesting that cell division is also inhibited in AtCDT1-RNAi plants. The reduction of stature of AtCDT1-RNAi plants could thus arise from both cell growth and cell division defects. [[FIGURE]] To check that these anomalies correlated with AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b silencing, Northern blot analyses were performed. Indeed, the five T1 plants previously described had reduced mRNA abundance for both AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b compared with WT or WT-like T1 kanamycin-resistant plants (FIG-REF). AtCDT1-RNAi plants accumulate fewer AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b transcripts than WT, but expression of the two genes is not completely abolished. Therefore, the developmental defects observed seem to be triggered by the simultaneous silencing of AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b.  AtCDT1 Silencing Slows Down the Cell Cycle but Increases Endoreduplication. As stated above, the reduction in cell area was not sufficient to explain the reduction in plant size. This result led us to analyze the rate of cell division in AtCDT1-RNAi plantlets. To this end, BrdUrd incorporation in 15-day-old AtCDT1-RNAi plantlets was measured by flow cytometry. Considering the high rate of endoreduplication in Arabidopsis, 4C* nuclei (* indicates BrdUrd-positive) can originate from cells that are about to divide, or from cells undergoing endocycles. The division rate can therefore be estimated only by considering nuclei with a 2C* DNA content, from cells that have undergone a complete cell cycle during the 24-h BrdUrd incubation. The proportion of such nuclei was lower in AtCDT1-RNAi (10.4 ± 0.7%) plantlets than in WT (15.9 ± 1.5%) (Table 2), suggesting that the cell cycle is slowed down in AtCDT1-RNAi plants. Moreover, the overall BrdUrd incorporation was lower in AtCDT1-RNAi plantlets (positive nuclei 24.2 ± 2.2% versus 32 ± 1.8%), suggesting an impairment of S phase. Overexpression of AtCDT1a has been reported to increase endoreduplication in rosette leaves (CITATION). This observation prompted us to study the consequences of AtCDT1 silencing on cell ploidy. WT cauline leaves typically showed 2C to 16C nuclei, with a vast majority of 4C nuclei and only a few 16C nuclei. AtCDT1-RNAi plants showed 32C nuclei and a majority of 8C or 16C nuclei (FIG-REF). Therefore, DNA had replicated once more in AtCDT1-RNAi plants than in WT. This result is all the more striking because it was observed in organs where endoreduplication levels are normally low (CITATION): cauline leaves and young plantlets (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  Chloroplast Biogenesis Is Affected in AtCDT1-RNAi Plants. Sequence analysis of AtCDT1a revealed that the protein has a 79-aa-long putative transit peptide, suggesting it might have a function in plastids. To investigate this possibility further, the subcellular localization of AtCDT1a was determined in transgenic plants expressing AtCDT1a fused to the GFP. As shown on FIG-REF, AtCDT1a accumulated in the nuclei (FIG-REF), and in the plastids (FIG-REF). This dual targeting could be observed within a given cell (FIG-REF). According to TargetP predictions, AtCDT1b could also be targeted to plastids, although it has a relatively short transit peptide, with a lower reliability class. [[FIGURE]] The ability of AtCDT1a to accumulate in plastids and the pale green color of AtCDT1-RNAi plants prompted us to study the effect of AtCDT1 down-regulation on plastids. Leaf cells were isolated to observe chloroplasts. Interestingly, AtCDT1-RNAi plants display severe plastid division defects. About half of their cells contain small and numerous plastids, like the WT, whereas the other half contain few but enlarged chloroplasts (FIG-REF) whose longest axis was often 10-fold that of normal chloroplasts, sometimes together with normal chloroplasts. In most of the abnormal cells, the chloroplast number was reduced to three or four. DAPI staining of the cells suggested a correlation between the size of the nucleus (and thus the endoreduplication level) and the severity of plastid division defects (FIG-REF), as if all cells were not all affected to the same extent but that DNA replication and chloroplast biogenesis were simultaneously altered. The same plastid division defects were observed in very young plantlets and leaf primordia (data not shown), suggesting that all cell types, including actively dividing cells, had impaired plastid division. [[FIGURE]] As stated above, AtCDT1-RNAi plants are yellowish, suggesting that chloroplast differentiation is affected in these plants. Chlorophyll content was therefore measured as described in Supporting Text, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site. As expected, it is lower than in WT (see Table 3, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). In AtCDT1-RNAi plants, the amount of chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b is reduced by 30–50%. Similarly, AtCDT1-RNAi plants contain fewer carotenoids. The proportions of the various photosynthetic pigments were not altered: chla/chlb and carotenoid/chla ratios were the same in WT and AtCDT1-RNAi plants. To assess the ability of the enlarged and pale chloroplasts to perform photosynthesis, the tissues were stained with lugol (FIG-REF). The biggest plastids contained much starch, demonstrating that they were able to accumulate carbohydrates, even though their pigment content was reduced. Chloroplast differentiation thus seems to be modified in AtCDT1-RNAi, but not enough to prevent photosynthesis. Silencing of AtCDT1 inhibits plastid division drastically. To determine whether it can also impair plastid DNA replication, the DNA content of chloroplasts of AtCDT1-RNAi plants was measured by flow cytometry in each T1 line. Chloroplast DNA content has been reported to decrease during leaf maturation in Arabidopsis (CITATION). To avoid variations due to this phenomenon, chloroplast DNA content was measured on three successive cauline leaves, starting with the one situated immediately below the first inflorescence, as described in Supporting Text. Considering the huge size of chloroplasts in AtCDT1-RNAi plants, they were isolated by protoplasts lysis. By cytometry, there was a positive correlation between chloroplast light scattering (roughly related to size), chlorophyll fluorescence, and DNA content (DAPI fluorescence), showing that the DNA content of chloroplasts correlates with their size. For each stage, the distribution of chloroplast DNA level was found to be broader in AtCDT1-RNAi plants, showing that the dramatically enlarged chloroplasts of AtCDT1-RNAi plants contain increased amounts of DNA (see Fig. 6, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). In the WT, the ratio DNA/light scattering is fairly constant. Interestingly, this ratio was also constant in AtCDT1-RNAi plants and for each leaf stage, demonstrating that, even though plastid division is impaired, the correlation between the size of the chloroplast and its DNA content is maintained.  AtCDT1a Interacts with the Plastid Division ARC6. To understand how AtCDT1 proteins may participate in plastid division, we tested their interaction with various plastid division proteins in the yeast two-hybrid system. Interestingly, we found an interaction between ARC6 (CITATION) and AtCDT1a (see Fig. 7, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). To confirm this interaction, we tested this interaction in plant cells using the bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) technique, which allows visualizing protein–protein interactions in situ (CITATION, CITATION). BY-2 protoplasts were cotransformed with two constructs, one encoding a fusion between ARC6 and the N-terminal half of YFP, and the other encoding a fusion between AtCDT1a and the C-terminal half of YFP. As shown previously, no fluorescence was detected after coexpression of the two halves of YFP alone (CITATION, CITATION). As a control, we transformed plants with a construct encoding a single fusion between a peptide deformylase and GFP that had previously been shown to be targeted to plastids (CITATION). As shown on FIG-REF, GFP and YFP fluorescence accumulated in very similar patterns in BY-2 cells. This result demonstrates simultaneously that AtCDT1a can accumulate in plastids and that it interacts with ARC6 in this cellular compartment, essential for the YFP moieties to reassemble in this imaging strategy
!~MM~!  Transgene Construct. The 3′ portion of AtCDT1b mRNA between positions 1520 and 1762 was amplified by PCR with the primers AtCDT1b XhoI pro (5′-CGCTCGAGGACAGTCATCACGAAGGAGGAGC-3′) and AtCDT1b EcoRI rev (5′-GGAATTCAGTAGATAAGTGAAATGTCATGTG-3′). This fragment was subsequently cloned between the SalI and EcoRI of pENT2B. RNA interference (RNAi) constructs were obtained in the Gateway-compatible pHellsgate vector. The cDNA fragment is cloned both sides of an intron: the resulting transcript forms a hairpin structure that triggers silencing of the construct and of the endogene. pHellsgate was designed to obtain such a construct in one step by double recombination between pENT2B and pHellsgate. However, this strategy often led to remodeling of the construct, deletion of the intron or of one insert. We therefore used a modified pHellsgate vector in which an XhoI fragment was removed, resulting in the deletion of one of the ccdB genes and the corresponding recombination sites attl1 and attl2. The AtCDT1b fragment was cloned on this side of the intron between the XhoI and EcoRI sites of the vector. Then, using the Gateway technology, we replaced the second ccdB gene on the other side of the intron by the AtCDT1b fragment. In the final construct, the orientation of the fragments was as described in ref. CITATION. The full-length cDNA encoding AtCDT1a was amplified by PCR, by using the primers AtCDT1a BamHI (5′-CGGATCCATGAGTACACCAGGCTCTTC-3′) and AtCDT1a SalI (5′-CGTCGACCAGTGGAGCCATGTCTTGCTTC-3′). The PCR product was subsequently sequenced and cloned into the pBI/SmGFP. The fragment encoding AtCDT1a-GFP fusion was also transferred into pCW162. The BamHI-SalI AtCDT1a fragment was also introduced in the pUC-SPYCE vector (CITATION). The full-length cDNA encoding ARC6 was obtained from Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (CITATION). It was amplified by PCR, by using the primers ARC6 BglII, and ARC6 SalI. The PCR product was subsequently sequenced and cloned into the pUC-SPYNE vector (CITATION).  Plant Growth and Transformation. pHellsgate encoding the AtCDT1-RNAi construct was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (GW3). pCW162 encoding the AtCDT1a-GFP fusion was introduced into the HBA105 strain. Arabidopsis thaliana plants (ecotype Wassilewskija) were transformed as described (CITATION). The seeds from the T1 and T2 generations were selected on 0.5× Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 50 mg/ml kanamycin. Ten-day-old kanamycin-resistant plantlets were transferred to soil in the greenhouse under long day conditions, and their phenotype was analyzed.  Transient Expression Assays. BY-2 cells were cultivated for 2–3 days before protoplast preparation. Protoplasts were obtained by incubating BY-2 cells in an enzymatic solution (1% wt/vol cellulase Onosuka/0.1% wt/vol pectolyase Onosuka, in MS glucose mannitol (MGM) medium) for 30 min at 30°C and 30 min at 37°C. Protoplasts were washed in MGM medium (4.3 g/liter MS/0.17 M mannitol/0.17 M glucose, pH 5.5), and then in MS sucrose (MSS) medium (4.3 g/liter MS/0.28 M sucrose, pH5.5), counted, and brought to the concentration of 106 protoplasts in 150 μl. One million protoplasts were incubated for 15 min at room temperature with 40 μg of each plasmid and 450 μl of polyethylene glycol (PEG) solution (25% wt/vol PEG 6000/0.45 M mannitol/0.1 M Ca(NO3)2, pH 9). Three milliliters of Ca(NO3)2 0.275 M were subsequently added to the transformation. Finally, protoplasts were washed in MGM medium and incubated in the dark for 24 h before observation.  RNA Isolation and Northern Blot Analysis. RNA extraction and RNA gel blot analysis were performed as described (CITATION). Hybridizations were performed at 62°C in the buffer described by Church and Gilbert (CITATION). The probes for AtCDT1a and AtCDT1b consist of the full-length cDNA.  Chloral Hydrate Treatment. Leaves were fixed in ethanol/acetic acid (9/1 vol/vol) for 1 h, and washed in 90% ethanol and 70% ethanol. Samples were subsequently incubated overnight at room temperature in the dark in chloral hydrate (1 ml of glycerol/2 ml of water/8 g of chloral hydrate).  Light, SEM, and Confocal Microscopy. SEM analysis on WT and AtCDT1-RNAi plants was performed as described (CITATION). Isolated leaf cells from AtCDT1-RNAi plants and WT were prepared as described (CITATION). Cells were stained with 2 μg/ml DAPI dissolved in Galbraith medium supplemented with 1% Triton X-100 (wt/vol), and observed by using an epifluorescence microscope (Zeiss Axioskope). To increase contrast and observe chloroplasts more easily, starch was stained by macerating the tissues in a solution of lugol (Merck). Roots of 35S:AtCDT1a-GFP plantlets and transformed protoplasts were observed by using a confocal microscope (Leica TCS, SP2). To observe GFP, excitation was 488 nm, and the spectral detector was set between 510 and 540 nm. To observe yellow fluorescent protein (YFP), excitation was at 514 nm, and the spectral detector was set between 520 and 550 nm.  Flow Cytometry. To measure the nuclear DNA content, whole cauline leaves from WT and AtCDT1-RNAi plants were chopped in Galbraith's buffer (CITATION) supplemented with 0.1% Triton X-100 (wt/vol). Extracts were filtered on 48-μm-pore nylon, and released nuclei were stained with 2 μg/ml DAPI. Before analysis with the flow cytometer (Elite, Coulter), formaldehyde was added to the samples to 1% (vol/vol). The water-cooled Argon laser (Innova 300, Coherent, Santa Clara, CA) was set in UV at 40 mW. BrdUrd incorporation was measured in plantlets grown for 2 days on MS medium supplemented with naphthalene-acetic acid as described in ref. CITATION.  Chlorophyll and Carotenoid Content. Two leaf discs with a diameter of 8.5 mm were ground in 750 μl of extraction buffer (50 mM Tris·HCl pH 8/80% wt/vol acetone). Pigments were dosed with a spectrophotometer as described in ref. CITATION.
