!~ABS~! The mechanisms controlling plant resistance to necrotrophic fungal pathogens are poorly understood. We previously reported on Ep5C, a gene shown to be induced by the H2O2 generated during a plant–pathogen interaction. To identify novel plant components operating in pathogen-induced signaling cascades, we initiated a large-scale screen using Arabidopsis thaliana plants carrying the β-glucuronidase reporter gene under control of the H2O2-responsive Ep5C promoter. Here, we report the identification and characterization of a mutant, ocp3 (for overexpressor of cationic peroxidase 3), in which the reporter construct is constitutively expressed. Healthy ocp3 plants show increased accumulation of H2O2 and express constitutively the Glutathione S-transferase1 and Plant Defensine 1.2 marker genes, but not the salicylic acid (SA)–dependent pathogenesis-related PR-1 gene. Strikingly, the ocp3 mutant shows enhanced resistance to the necrotrophic pathogens Botrytis cinerea and Plectosphaerella cucumerina. Conversely, resistance to virulent forms of the biotrophic oomycete Hyaloperonospora parasitica and the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato DC3000 remains unaffected in ocp3 plants when compared with wild-type plants. Consistently with this, ocp3 plants are not affected in SA perception and express normal levels of PR genes after pathogen attack. To analyze signal transduction pathways where ocp3 operates, epistasis analyses between ocp3 and pad4, nahG, npr1, ein2, jin1, or coi1 were performed. These studies revealed that the resistance signaling to necrotrophic infection in ocp3 is fully dependent on appropriate perception of jasmonic acid through COI1 and does not require SA or ethylene perception through NPR1 or EIN2, respectively. The OCP3 gene encodes a homeodomain transcription factor that is constitutively expressed in healthy plants but repressed in response to infection by necrotrophic fungi. Together, these results suggest that OCP3 is an important factor for the COI1-dependent resistance of plants to infection by necrotrophic pathogens.
!~RES~! Ep5C encodes an extracellular cationic peroxidase and is transcriptionally activated by the H2O2 generated during the course of plant–pathogen interactions (CITATION). To identify signals and mechanisms involved in the induction of the Ep5C gene and study the impact this pathway may have on disease resistance, we searched for mutants using transgenic Arabidopsis plants that harbor an Ep5C–β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene fusion. Our screening rationale was that by looking for mutants showing constitutive expression of the reporter gene in plants grown under noninductive conditions, we would identify mutations affecting the regulation of this signal pathway. We therefore mutagenized one of our previously characterized Ep5C-GUS transgenic Arabidopsis Columbia (Col-0) lines with ethyl methanesulfonate, and M2 plants were screened for constitutive expression of GUS in the absence of any pathogenic insult. From ∼10,000 M2 plants screened, 18 constitutive GUS expressers were identified that could be selfed. GUS activity was assayed again in progeny of all these putative mutants to confirm whether the phenotype was heritable. Eight lines, corresponding to six complementation groups (data not shown), maintained constitutive GUS activity in subsequent generations. We named these mutants ocp (for overexpression of cationic peroxidase gene promoter), and the mutant selected for further analysis was ocp3 because it was the one to show the highest GUS activity. Macroscopically, ocp3 plants are not very dissimilar to wild-type plants both in terms of plant architecture and growth habit (Figure 1A). However, at early stages of plant development, ocp3 plants show retardation in growth rate compared with wild-type plants. This retardation in the growth rate is also accompanied by a less intense green color in young leaves (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Histochemical staining was performed to investigate the pattern of constitutive reporter gene expression in the ocp3 mutants compared with the parental nonmutagenized wild-type plants. As shown in Figure 1B, in the parental seedlings, no GUS activity was detected except in a discrete zone at the root–stem junction (see arrow in the left panel of Figure 1B). Conversely, in ocp3 seedlings, GUS activity was detected in expanding leaves as well as in the cotyledons and the stem, but very poorly in roots. In rosette leaves of ocp3 plants, GUS activity was distributed throughout the leaf blade, whereas leaves from the parental plants did not show detectable GUS expression (Figure 1C). Because H2O2 was proposed to be the signal molecule that sets in motion the transcriptional activation of Ep5C after pathogen perception (CITATION), we hypothesized that either H2O2 accumulation is increased in ocp3 plants or, alternatively, the ocp3 mutant is hypersensitive to this ROS molecule. To examine if ocp3 plants showed any phenotype in relation to this, we studied the sensitivity to H2O2 and to reagents that generate directly or indirectly H2O2. Seeds from ocp3 and from wild-type plants were germinated on MS media containing different amounts of H2O2 (ranging from 2 to 20 mM), and growth was recorded at different time intervals. No significant differences in growth inhibition were found for ocp3 with respect to wild-type seedlings (data not shown). Likewise, growth inhibition was similar in wild-type and ocp3 seedlings when assayed in the light either in the presence of the ROS-generating molecules Rose Bengal (4,5,6,7-tetrachloro-2′,4′,5′,7′-tetraiodofluorescein; 0.1 to 2 μM) or paraquat (methyl viologen; 0.1 to 2 μM) (data not shown). Thus, from these assays, the ocp3 mutation does not seem to confer increased sensitivity or enhanced resistance to oxidative stress. However, RNA gel blot analyses with mRNA from wild-type and ocp3 plants revealed (Figure 1F; lanes on the left) that mutant seedlings expressed constitutively Glutathione S-transferase1 (GST1), a gene previously shown to be controlled by H2O2 (CITATION; CITATION). This reflects that ocp3 plants may be producing and/or accumulating higher levels of H2O2 than those normally found in wild-type plants. To test this, leaves were stained in situ with 3,3′-diaminobenzidine (DAB), a histochemical reagent that polymerizes in the presence of H2O2, forming reddish-brown precipitates (CITATION). Little DAB staining was evident in the leaves of wild-type plants (Figure 1D, left). Conversely, leaves from ocp3 plants showed distinct foci of DAB staining scattered throughout the leaf blade (Figure 1D, right). Moreover, ocp3 does not show any sign of cell death or cell collapse as revealed by staining with trypan blue (Figure 1E) nor does it show any differences with the wild type when assayed for the production of superoxide anions (O2−) by staining with nitroblue tetrazolium (data not shown). Thus, the observed increased accumulation of H2O2 and induction of GST transcripts in ocp3 plants suggests that the mutation presumably cues a signal related to oxidative stress but not to prime a cell death response. This explains previous observations in which H2O2, but none of the other reactive oxygen intermediate (ROI) species generated during pathogenesis or by in situ infiltration with different H2O2-generating systems, is the signal that sets in motion the characteristic transcriptional activation of Ep5C-GUS in transgenic Arabidopsis plants (CITATION). Therefore, both the generation of H2O2 and the activation of the signaling mechanism leading to transcriptional activation of Ep5C concurred in the ocp3 mutant. To study a causal link between the signal pathway mediating the activation of Ep5C-GUS in ocp3 and that mediating disease susceptibility, we tested the response of this mutant to different pathogens that generate disease in Arabidopsis. The response of ocp3 plants to the obligate biotroph oomycete Hyaloperonospora parasitica and its comparison to the response of wild-type plants is shown in Figure 2. Growth of the pathogen was assayed by direct observation of stained hyphae in infected leaves (Figure 2A) and by counting the spores produced on infected leaves (Figures 2B). Using both measurements, there was no significant difference in pathogen growth between wild-type and ocp3 plants. Sporulation occurred on 50% of the leaves from either wild-type plants or ocp3 plants. Therefore, the ocp3 mutation did not affect the susceptibility of the plant to colonization by H. parasitica. [[FIGURE]] Changes in the susceptibility of ocp3 plants to pathogens were investigated further using the virulent bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato DC3000 (Pst DC3000) and monitoring the growth rate of these bacteria in extracts from inoculated leaves; the resulting growth curves are shown in Figure 2C. As with H. parasitica, the rate of growth of Pst DC3000 in ocp3 plants was not significantly different to that observed in wild-type plants. Therefore, the susceptibility of the wild type and the ocp3 mutant remains also nearly the same upon local inoculation with this pathogen. To determine if the ocp3 mutation could provoke changes in the susceptibility to necrotrophic pathogens, we inoculated plants with Botrytis cinerea. Disease was scored between 5 and 10 d after inoculation by following the extent of necrosis appearing in the inoculated leaves. As expected, wild-type plants were highly susceptible to Botrytis, and all inoculated plants showed necrosis accompanied by extensive proliferation of the fungal mycelia (Figures 2D and 2E). However, and by marked contrast, none of the ocp3 plants that were inoculated with the same fungi showed extended necrosis in the inoculated leaves (Figures 2D and 2E). Furthermore, the proliferation of the fungal mycelia was drastically inhibited in ocp3 plants (data not shown). This indicates that resistance to this necrotrophic pathogen was dramatically enhanced, or susceptibility blocked, in the ocp3 mutant. To test whether the altered disease susceptibility of ocp3 is specific to Botrytis, we challenged plants with Plectosphaerella cucumerina, another necrotroph. Infection of wild-type plants with P. cucumerina lead also to a strong degradation of the leaf tissue, manifested by extended lesions and chlorosis that increased in diameter as the infection progressed along the inoculated leaf (Figure 2F). Conversely, ocp3 plants showed a high degree of resistance to this fungal pathogen as the visible tissue deterioration in the inoculated leaves was drastically reduced (Figures 2F and 2G). Here also the proliferation of the fungal mycelia was drastically inhibited (data not shown). On the basis of all these findings, it can be concluded that susceptibility to necrotrophic fungi is a characteristic trait linked to the OCP3 locus, and the identified mutation in this locus renders enhanced resistance to the same pathogens. This is in accordance with the observation that PDF1.2, an inducible marker for the ET/JA-responsive defense pathway against necrotrophic fungal pathogens (CITATION), is constitutively expressed in ocp3 plants (Figure 1F). The constitutive expression in ocp3 plants of the H2O2-inducible GST and the JA-inducible PDF1.2, but not of the SA-inducible PR-1 (Figure 1F), suggests a link between oxidative stress and JA signaling that apparently is SA independent. In the complex network of interactions operating during plant resistance responses, an antagonistic relationship between the SA and JA/ET pathway has been well documented (CITATION) and indicates that, in ocp3 plants, the constitutive activation of the pathway leading to PDF1.2 gene expression could be negating expression of the SA-dependent genes. However, the exogenous application of SA promotes expression of the marker PR-1 gene in both ocp3 and wild-type plants (Figure 1F), indicating that ocp3 plants are not compromised in perception of SA, and is in accordance with the observation that the resistance to biotrophic pathogens is also intact in this mutant (Figures 2A to 2C). Furthermore, the exogenous application of SA abrogates the constitutive expression of PDF1.2 that occurs in ocp3 plants (Figure 1F). This antagonistic effect of SA was specific for PDF1.2 expression because GST1 expression was not repressed in ocp3 upon treatment with SA. Instead, SA promoted activation of GST1 in wild-type plants (Figure 1F). This latter observation reinforces the link existing between SA and ROS as previously documented by others (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) but also indicates that the oxidative stress mediating expression of GST1 in ocp3 plants and concurred expression of PDF1.2 might be SA independent. To more directly assess if SA could be contributing to the phenotype of ocp3 plants in relation to the observed resistance to necrotrophic pathogens, we crossed the nahG transgene into the ocp3 background. nahG encodes a bacterial salicylate hydroxylase that blocks the SA pathway by degrading SA (CITATION). The ocp3 nahG plants retained the resistance to B. cinerea (Figures 3A and 3B) and P. cucumerina (Figure 3C) to levels similar to those of ocp3 plants. Likewise, the pad4 mutation compromises SA accumulation after pathogen attack (CITATION). When pad4 was introgressed in the ocp3 background, the resulting ocp3 pad4 plants remained as resistant to B. cinerea (Figures 3A and 3B) or to P. cucumerina (Figure 3C) as ocp3 plants. [[FIGURE]] To further extend these studies, we created an ocp3 npr1 double mutant. The npr1 mutant was originally identified by its insensitivity to SA and is considered the master regulator of SA-mediated responses (CITATION). As observed for ocp3 nahG and ocp3 pad4 plants, the resistance of ocp3 npr1 plants to necrotrophic fungi also remained the same as observed in ocp3 plants (Figures 3A to 3C). All these results thus indicate that SA seems not to be required for the enhanced resistance attributable to the ocp3 mutation against necrotrophic pathogens. We also assessed the importance of JA in contributing to the phenotype of ocp3 plants. We tested whether a defect in the perception of this hormone might affect the observed enhanced resistance of ocp3 plants to necrotrophic fungi. The Arabidopsis coi1 mutant is fully insensitive to JA, and the COI1 protein is required for all JA-dependent responses so far identified. COI1 encodes an F-box protein involved in the ubiquitin-mediated degradation in JA signaling by means of forming functional E3-type ubiquitin ligase complexes (CITATION; CITATION). Furthermore, coi1 plants are impaired in expression of PDF1.2 and show increased sensitivity to necrotrophic fungi (CITATION; CITATION). All this supports the importance of JA in the resistance of plants to this type of pathogen and justified the introgression of coi1 in the ocp3 background to generate ocp3 coi1 double mutant plants (Figure 4). Importantly, the enhanced resistance observed in ocp3 plants to both B. cinerea and P. cucumerina is abrogated when the coi1 mutation is present (Figures 4A to 4C). The ocp3 coi1 plants behave as coi1 plants upon infection of either fungi, with necrotic lesions spreading throughout the inoculated leaves as exemplified in Figure 4C for the response to P. cucumerina. [[FIGURE]] In addition to coi1, we studied jin1, another JA-insensitive mutant (CITATION), in relation to the ocp3 mutant. JIN1 is a MYC-like transcription factor that functions in a COI1-dependent manner (CITATION). In contrast with coi1 and despite the defect in JA signaling, jin1 plants show increased resistance to necrotrophic pathogens, indicating that JIN1 may function as a repressor of the resistance to this type of pathogen. Interestingly, the ocp3 jin1 double mutant plants remained highly resistant when assayed against infection by B. cinerea (Figure 4A) and to levels comparable to those attained by either ocp3 plants or jin1 plants. It is worth mentioning here that the ocp3 mutation neither confers insensitivity to JA (according to the root-growth inhibition assay in the presence of JA; data not shown) nor is allelic to jin1. The lack of additive effect thus indicates that there might be a certain functional overlap between ocp3 and jin1 for the enhancement of resistance to B. cinerea that ultimately is primed by JA and controlled by COI1. ET has also been shown to mediate certain aspects of the plant response to pathogens (CITATION; CITATION). However, ET signaling can also function independently of JA, or even inhibit JA-dependent responses (CITATION; CITATION). To test the importance of ET in the resistance response mediated by the ocp3 mutation, we crossed ocp3 plants with the ET-insensitive ein2 mutant (CITATION) to generate the ocp3 ein2 double mutant. As observed in Figures 2B and 2C, the resistance of ocp3 ein2 plants to P. cucumerina remained the same compared with that observed in ocp3 plants (Figures 4A to 4C), thus indicating that for the observed resistance mediated by ocp3, the plant hormone ET is dispensable. To determine the nature of the ocp3 mutation, a backcross was performed between ocp3/ocp3 plants and wild-type OCP3/OCP3 plants containing the Ep5C-GUS transgene and the progeny analyzed. In the F1 plants resulting from this cross, constitutive expression of GUS activity was absent in all 21 seedlings tested, and in the F2 plants, expression was present in 31 of 118 seedlings. The F2 segregation ratio of the phenotype conferred by ocp3 was 1:3 (constitutive expressers:nonexpressers, χ2 = 1.48; 0.1 > P > 0.5), indicative of a single recessive mutation. The ocp3 mutant was backcrossed with wild-type Landsberg erecta to generate an F2 mapping population, and recombinant seedlings were identified with the use of simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP) markers (CITATION). DNA was isolated, initially, from 38 ocp3 homozygous plants, and the segregation of SSLP markers indicated that ocp3 showed linkage to the Nga249 marker on chromosome 5 where all 76 alleles analyzed were Col-0 (data not shown). Further analysis of the ocp3 selected plants with additional available markers for chromosome 5 identified the SSLP markers Nga 249 and ca72 as the closest markers flanking the ocp3 mutation on each side (Figure 5A). Screening of 1100 randomly chosen plants from a Landsberg erecta × ocp3 F2 mapping population with the SSLP markers Nga249 and ca72 identified 29 plants having a recombination in the interval. Using these 29 recombinant plants, OCP3 was found to be located 4 centimorgans from Nga249 and 1.9 centimorgans from ca72. We designed further polymorphic markers for the region between Nga249 and ca72, and the position of OCP3 was narrowed down to a genomic region that included the end of BAC clone T5K6 and the beginning of BAC clone F2I11. Nineteen genes are present on the annotated sequence within these two BAC clones (Figure 5B). The entire coding region of each of these genes was amplified from ocp3 plants, and the sequences of the PCR products were determined. The sequence corresponding to gene At5g11270 was identified as the only one to show a single nucleotide substitution (G-to-A on the coding strand; exon 3) causing a single amino acid substitution (Ala-to-Thr) (Figure 5C). No mutation was found in the remaining 18 genes. At5g11270 contains two introns and encodes a protein of 553 amino acids. [[FIGURE]] To assign unequivocally At5g11270 as OCP3, we introduced a 3.2-kb fragment containing At5g11270 into ocp3 by Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation. Three transgenic lines were tested for constitutive expression of GUS and for disease resistance to B. cinerea and P. cucumerina. In all of them, the constitutive expression of GUS was abolished and the normal susceptibility to the fungal pathogens recovered, demonstrating that At5g11270 is OCP3 (Figures 5D and 5E show the result of this complementation for one of the transgenic lines generated; line 2AT). To identify the structure of the OCP3 gene and its mutant allele ocp3, a 1.2-kb fragment was amplified by RT-PCR from wild-type and ocp3 mutant plants using primers designed according to the annotated sequence of gene At5g11270. Direct sequencing and comparison of the RT-PCR products revealed that the ocp3-derived cDNA carries an internal deletion of 36 nucleotides instead of the expected single nucleotide substitution identified in the genomic sequences (Figure 6). This deletion corresponded to the first 36 nucleotides of exon III. Thus, the transition of G to A identified at the genomic level on the coding strand of the ocp3 allele provokes an alteration in the normal splicing process for the ocp3-derived mRNA. This short deletion provokes a frame shift in the ocp3 open reading frame that results in the generation of an in-frame stop codon rendering a truncated protein of 210 amino acid residues instead of the 354 residues of the wild-type protein (see below, Figure 7). This deletion was further confirmed in different ocp3 plants by RT-PCR using a set of internal forward and reverse nested primers designed from the genomic sequence (Figure 6A). Products of the expected lengths were obtained in all reactions, except when using the primer internal to the deleted sequence that did not result in any RT-PCR product in ocp3-derived samples (Figure 6B). Thus, the lack of function genetically ascribed to the recessive ocp3 mutation is not because of an amino acid change but rather the result of an abnormal splicing of the transcribed ocp3 mRNA, which upon translation renders a truncated protein lacking 144 amino acid residues from the C-terminal part (Figures 6C and 7). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] DNA sequencing showed that the OCP3 cDNA encodes a protein of 354 amino acid residues (Figures 7A and 7B), of 39,111 D, and a pI of 4.53. OCP3 contains various salient features. Close to the C terminus, a 60–amino acid domain (position 284 to 344) resembling that of a homeodomain encoded by homeobox genes of various organisms (CITATION) can be identified. The homeodomain of OCP3 shares most of the highly conserved amino acids characteristic of the 60–amino acid homeodomain module. The conservation of these critical residues (e.g., L-16, Y-20 instead of F-20, I/L-34, I/L/M-40, W-48, F-49, and R-53) is easily identified when compared with different Arabidopsis homeodomain-containing proteins that belong to different protein subgroups (Figure 7C). Inspection of the amino acid sequence of OCP3 also revealed the presence of two canonical bipartite nuclear localization signals (CITATION; CITATION): RK-(X)10-KKNKKK at positions 64 to 81 and KK-(X)10-RRSKR at positions 294 to 310, with the latter being buried within the homeodomain (Figures 7A and 7B). These features could be mediating targeting of the protein to the nuclei. Another salient feature of OCP3 is the presence of an extended region rich in acidic residues (positions 84 to 181), a feature common to several transcriptional activators (CITATION). The last identifiable feature within OCP3 is the presence of the canonical LxxLL motif at positions 101 to 105 (Figures 7A and 7B). This motif is a signature sequence that facilitates the interaction of different transcriptional coactivators to nuclear receptors and is thus a defining feature identified in several nuclear proteins (CITATION). All these structural motifs strongly indicate that OCP3 is a nuclear protein presumably involved in transcriptional regulation in Arabidopsis. According to a general classification scheme for homeobox genes (http://www.homeobox.cjb.net/) OCP3 is unique as it is set apart from the major classes of homeodomain-containing proteins found in plants, including KNOX or HD-Zip. In addition OCP3 is present as a single copy gene in the Arabidopsis genome. Sequence searches in databases revealed extensive identity of OCP3 with six other proteins—from tomato (GenBank accession number AW223899, 48.9% identity), potato (GenBank BQ112211, 48.3% identity), grape (GenBank CD003732, 51.1% identity), rice (GenBank AY224485, 49.5% identity), wheat (GenBank CK205563, 49.4% identity), and maize (GenBank BG840814, 51.3% identity)— which were found to have a high degree of sequence similarity with OCP3 and with conservation of all the major structural motifs discussed above (data not shown). This indicates that the function of this type of transcriptional regulator has been highly conserved in plants during evolution. The subcellular localization of OCP3 was investigated using C-terminal green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions of full-length OCP3. Expression of this construct, as driven by the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus in stable transgenic Arabidopsis plants and monitored in epidermal cells of leaves using confocal microscopy, demonstrated that, consistent with a role for OCP3 as a transcription factor, the fusion protein localized predominantly to the nucleus (Figure 7D). Parallel expression of native GFP under control of the 35S promoter in transgenic Arabidopsis plants did not reveal any preferential localization to the nucleus (Figure 7D). Thus, OCP3 carries all major determinants for a nuclear localization. The expression of OCP3 in response to infection with a necrotrophic fungal pathogen was analyzed in wild-type plants at different time intervals after infection. OCP3 mRNA levels were undetectable by RNA gel blot analysis in any tissue analyzed, indicating that the OCP3 gene is transcribed at a very low rate. To circumvent this difficulty, the presence of OCP3 mRNAs was studied by RT-PCR. These analyses revealed that OCP3 is constitutively expressed in leaf tissue from healthy plants. Figure 8 shows that after infection with P. cucumerina, there is a decrease in the level of accumulation of the OCP3 mRNAs, being most evident at 72 h after infection. Concomitantly, and inversely correlated with this reduction, the JA and fungal-inducible marker gene PDF1.2 is upregulated upon infection with P. cucumerina. At latter stages of infection, induced expression of the defense-related gene PR1 also takes place and is indicative of the tissue deterioration occurring as a result of the growth habit of the fungi. [[FIGURE]] The downregulation of OCP3 upon fungal infection, its inverse correlation with the induced expression of PDF1.2, and the recessive nature of the ocp3 mutation favors the interpretation that OCP3 may be functioning as a repressor of the resistance response to fungal pathogens in wild-type plants.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown in soil or on plates containing MS media, as described previously (CITATION). The ocp3 mutant was isolated in a screen for constitutive expressers of the Ep5C-GUS reporter gene in transgenic Col-0 plants mutagenized with ethyl methanesulfonate, as described previously for another mutant (CITATION). The transgenic line used (line 5.2) was homozygous and contained a single insertion of the Ep5C-GUS transgene. The ocp3 mutant line used in these experiments has been backcrossed three times to the wild-type parental line. Plants were grown in a growth chamber (19 to 23°C, 85% relative humidity, 100 μEm−2 s−1 fluorescent illumination) in a 10-h-light and 14-h-dark cycle. Unless otherwise indicated, fully expanded leaves of 4-week-old plants were used for all experiments. Staining for the presence of H2O2 via the DAB uptake method was performed as described by CITATION. Staining for the presence of GUS activity was performed as described previously (CITATION). Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato DC3000 was grown and prepared for inoculation as described previously (CITATION). The density of the bacterial populations was determined by plating serial dilutions on King's B medium supplemented with rifampicin (50 μg/mL) at 28°C and counting the colony-forming units at different times. Data are reported as means and standard deviations of the log (colony-forming units/fresh weight) of six to eight replicates. Hyaloperonospora parasitica resistance assays were done on 3-week-old plants that were sprayed with a conidial suspension of H. parasitica isolate NOCO (105 conidiospores mL−1 tap water) as described previously (CITATION). On the seventh day, the density of the spores on the plantlets (seven pots per treatment, each pot treated separately) was assessed using a haemocytometer. Alternatively, leaf samples were stained with lactophenol-trypan blue at different days after inoculation and examined under the microscope as described previously (CITATION). For resistance to Plectosphaerella and Botrytis, 3-week-old seedlings were transplanted to single pots and cultivated at a 22°C day/18°C night temperature with 12 h of light per 24 h. When plants were 6 weeks old, they were inoculated by applying 6-μL droplets of spore suspension of either Plectosphaerella cucumerina (5 × 106 spores mL−1) or Botrytis cinerea (2.5 × 104 conidia mL−1) to three fully expanded leaves per plant. P. cucumerina was isolated from naturally infected Arabidopsis (accession Landsberg erecta) (CITATION) and grown on 19.5 g/L of potato dextrose agar (Difco, Detroit, MI) at room temperature for 2 weeks before spores were collected and suspended in 10 mM MgSO4. B. cinerea (strain BMM1, isolated from Pelargonium zonale; CITATION) was grown on 19.5 g/L of potato dextrose agar (Difco) at 20°C for 10 d. The conidia were collected and suspended in sterile PDS (12 g L−1; Difco). The plants were maintained at 100% RH, and disease symptoms were evaluated 4 to 10 d after inoculation by determining the average lesion diameter on three leaves of five plants each. Crosses were performed by emasculating unopened buds and using the pistils as recipients for pollen. Backcrosses with the parental transgenic line were performed using Ep5C-GUS plants as the pollen donor. The reciprocal crosses were also performed. F1 and F2 plants were grown on MS plates and tested for GUS activity. Segregation of phenotype in the F2 generation was analyzed for goodness of fit with the χ2 test. An ocp3 plant (in the Col background) was crossed with Landsberg erecta, and amongst the segregating F2 progeny, homozygous ocp3 mutants were selected for mapping. Recombinant seedlings were identified using SSLP markers by the protocol described by CITATION and with new markers as reported on the Arabidopsis database Web site (www.arabidopsis.org). The mutant alleles used throughout this study were npr1-1 (CITATION), pad4-1 (CITATION), coi1-1 (CITATION), ein2-5 (CITATION), and jin1-1 (CITATION). All the mutants and transgenic plants used in these studies were in ecotype Col-0. The ocp3 npr1, ocp3 pad4, ocp3 coi1, ocp3 ein2, ocp3 jin1, and ocp3 nahG double mutants were generated using ocp3 as recipient for pollen. The homozygosity of the loci was confirmed using a molecular marker for each of the alleles in segregating populations. All the double mutants were confirmed in the F3 generation, except ocp3 coi1 plants that were sterile and could only be propagated as heterozygotes for coi1. For the double mutant containing ein2-5, F2 seed was plated on MS plates containing 20 μM 1-amino-cyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid and placed in a growth chamber. After 3 d in the dark, the seedlings were scored for the presence or absence of the ET-induced triple response. The ein2 mutant, being ET insensitive, does not display the triple response. F2 plants that lacked the triple response were collected and transferred to soil to score for homozygosity for ocp3. The genomic sequence was used as the basis for cloning of cDNAs and genomic clones. Poly(A+) RNA was isolated from different wild-type and ocp3 plants and was reverse-transcribed using oligo(dT) primers as described (CITATION). These were used as templates to amplify OCP3 and ocp3 cDNAs using different combinations of the sense and antisense gene-specific primers: pfullD1 (5′-GAATTCATGATAAAAGCCATGG-3′), pfullR1 (5′-GTTAACTCTAGATCTTTCCGGAG-3′), pD1 (5′-GGTGATGTTGATGTTGATGTTG-3′), pR1 (5′-CTTAGGTTCGACCACAACATCTTCAG-3′), and pD2 (5′-ATCTGGCAGCTGAGGTTTGTCTTG-3′). The OCP3 genomic region was amplified by PCR using gene-specific primers designed to include the 1.5-kb region upstream of the start codon and a part of the 3′ region that follows the stop codon. The sequences of the OCP3 genomic forward and reverse primers used were 5′-GAGATTGGAACGTGGGTCGACTTTAG-3′ and 5′-TTCCTGAATTCATACTTTATCATAG-3′, respectively. A 3.2-kb genomic fragment containing the wild-type At5g11270 gene was obtained by PCR and cloned to pCAMBIA1300 to render clone pCAMBIAOCP3 that was transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciens and used to transform ocp3 plants by the floral-dip method (CITATION). To analyze the level of gene expression by RT-PCR, total RNA samples were prepared from leaf tissues using the Total RNA kit from Ambion (Austin, TX). Reverse transcription was performed using the RT-for-PCR kit from Clontech (Palo Alto, CA). The oligonucleotide primer sets (50 pmol each) used to amplify OCP3 were OCP3PCR1 (5′-GCTTAAAAGACTGGCTTATGCATTG-3′)/OCP3PCR2 (5′-GCTTTGGAGCGGGTCACGAAG-3′). The primers used to amplify PDF1.2 were PDF1.2PCR1 (5′-ATGGCTAAGTTTGCTTCCAT-3′)/PDF1.2PCR2(5′-ACATGGGACGTAACAGATAC-3′). The primers used to amplify PR1 were PR1PCR1 (5′-ATGAATTTTACTGGCTATTC-3′)/PR1PCR2 (5′-AACCCACATGTTCACGGCGGA-3′). For detecting OCP3 expression, PCR amplification was programmed for 30 cycles, with each cycle consisting of 95°C for 0.5 min, 55°C for 0.5 min, and 72°C for 0.5 min. For PR-1, PCR amplification was programmed for 17 cycles, with each cycle consisting of 95°C for 0.5 min, 55°C for 0.5 min, and 72°C for 0.5 min. For PDF1.2, PCR amplification was programmed for 23 cycles, with each cycle consisting of 95°C for 0.5 min, 65°C for 0.5 min, and 72°C for 0.5 min. A Leica TCS SL confocal microscope (Mannheim, Germany) was used in these studies. To detect GFP fluorescence, the excitation wavelength was 488 nm, and a band-pass filter of 510 to 525 nm was used for emission. Confocal images were taken from leaves from 15-d-old transgenic plants expressing 35S-GFP or 35S-OCP3-GFP that were mounted on standard microscope slides in the presence of water.
