!~ABS~! In most dicotyledonous plants, vascular tissues in the leaf have a reticulate venation pattern. We have isolated and characterized an Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) mutant defective in the vascular network defective mutant, van3. van3 mutants show a discontinuous vascular pattern, and VAN3 is known to encode an ADP-ribosylation-factor-GTPase-activating protein that regulates membrane trafficking in the trans-Golgi network. To elucidate the molecular nature controlling the vein patterning process through membrane trafficking, we searched VAN3-interacting proteins using a yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two hybrid system. As a result, we isolated the plant Dynamin-Related Protein 1A (DRP1A) as a VAN3 interacting protein. The spatial and temporal expression patterns of DRP1A∷GUS and VAN3∷GUS were very similar. The subcellular localization of VAN3 completely overlapped to that of DRP1A. drp1a showed a disconnected vascular network, and the drp1a mutation enhanced the phenotype of vascular discontinuity of the van3 mutant in the drp1a van3 double mutant. Furthermore, the drp1 mutation enhanced the discontinuous vascular pattern of the gnom mutant, which had the same effect as that of the van3 mutation. These results indicate that DRP1 modulates the VAN3 function in vesicle budding from the trans-Golgi network, which regulates vascular formation in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! To isolate VAN3 interacting proteins, we performed a yeast two hybrid screening with VAN3 as bait. From the screening of an Arabidopsis cDNA library, we isolated DRP1A as a VAN3 binding protein. DRP1A is a known member of the dynamin family that constitutes a structurally related, but functionally diverse, family of large GTP binding proteins that share a conserved N-terminal GTPase domain and a C-terminal GTPase effector domain (CITATION). To confirm the association between DRP1A and VAN3, a swapping test was conducted. VAN3 was fused with the DNA activation domain in pACT2, and DRP1A was fused with the DNA binding domain of pAS2 in the yeast two hybrid system. When pACT2-VAN3 and PAS2-DRP1A were cotransformed in the yeast strain Y190, the yeast could survive on a selection agar plate without His. This indicated an interaction between VAN3 and DRP1A in yeast (Fig. 1A). [[FIGURE]] To validate the protein-protein interaction revealed by the yeast two hybrid, a glutathione S-transferase (GST) pull-down assay was performed with a recombinant protein of GST full-length DRP1A as bait and a recombinant VAN3-GAL4 DNA binding domain protein as predator. Results showed that a GST-DRP1A recombinant protein pulled down the VAN3-GAL4 DNA binding domain recombinant protein band. However, GST itself did not (Fig. 1B). DRP1A is known to have a GTPase domain and a GTPase effecter domain. To examine the GTPase activity of the DRP1A protein, recombinant GST-tagged DRP1A protein was purified, and the hydrolysis of GTP by the recombinant DRP1A was measured. Radionucleotide-labeled GTP bound to DRP1A formed the substrate DRP1A-GTP. Further incubation under a condition that minimized interference by nucleotide exchange or contaminating nucleotidases resulted in GTP hydrolysis on the DRP1A in a time dependent manner (Fig. 1C). This result suggested that the DRP1A protein functions as a GTPase. CITATION showed that the drp1a/adl1a mutant had defects in the anisotropic expansion of stigmatic papillae and in the development of leaf trichomes. These results suggested that DRP1A might be responsible for expansion during single cell differentiation. They also discussed the possibility of DRP1A function in vascular formation (CITATION). To examine the DRP1A function in vascular formation, we cleared cotyledons of the drp1a mutants and observed vascular tissues. The cotyledon of Arabidopsis has a very simple continuous vein pattern: one midvein and three or four lateral veins (Fig. 2A). Approximately 10% of drp1a mutants showed disconnected vascular network (19 abnormal plants in 200 mutants; Fig. 2B), and the leaf size and shape is not so affected. This disconnected venation pattern of the drp1a mutant was similar to that of the van3 mutant, although the discontinuity in drp1a was weaker than that of the van3 mutant (Fig. 2C). In contrast, we could not observe disconnection in the wild type (n = 200). [[FIGURE]] To observe the genetic interaction between the van3 and drp1a mutants, we produced van3 drp1a double mutants. The van3 drp1a double mutant had a defect in germination, although its embryo development was anatomically indistinguishable to that of the wild type (data not shown). In the F2 progeny of a cross between van3 and drp1a, mutants from each combination segregated at ratios of about 9:3:3:1 (wild type:van3:drp1a:van3 drp1a = 176:64:56:18; x2 0.002 < P < 0.45). Genotypes of the 18 van3 drp1a double mutants were confirmed by PCR methods (CITATION). Seventeen of the 18 mutants failed to germinate, and only one mutant line showed seedling lethality without producing rosette leaves. This van3 drp1a double mutant had severely fragmented and poorly maturated vasculature (Fig. 2D). In repeated experiments, about 5% of van3 drp1a double mutants could germinate (9/200), and all double mutants showed a similar phenotype. Thus, the drp1a mutation enhanced the van3 phenotype, suggesting that the DRP1A gene may be responsible for synergistic vascular formation with the VAN3 gene. The gnom/van7 mutant is known to show an abnormal venation pattern (CITATION). About one-half of the gnom seedlings (10/23) produced fused cotyledons, and the gnom cotyledon produced excess vascular tissues (Fig. 2E). Although the gnom mutant sometimes produces partially fragmented vascular tissues, the fragmentation is not as obvious, and the fragmentation was never observed in the primary veins. GNOM is known to encode an ARF-GEF, which is needed in PIN1 recycling between the plasma membrane and endosomes. On the other hand, VAN3 is shown to encode an ARF-GAP (CITATION). In seedlings of the van3 gnom double mutants, about one-half produced fused cotyledons (21/43). The cotyledon of the van3 gnom double mutants contained one or two midveins and highly fragmented lateral veins (Fig. 2F). Because we revealed that DRP1A could bind with VAN3, genetic interactions between the drp1a mutant and the gnom mutant were also examined. In seedlings of the gnom drp1a double mutant, about one-half produced fused cotyledons and a highly fragmented vasculature (Fig. 2G). Interestingly, the fragmentation was also observed even in the primary veins (Fig. 2G). This was similar to that of the van3 gnom double mutant. Thus, the drp1a mutation appears to have a similar effect to that of the van3 mutation, which enhances the fragmentation of vasculature in the gnom mutants. These results suggested that the DRP1A gene might be responsible for vascular formation. To examine the temporal and spatial interrelationship between DRP1A and VAN3 during leaf development, we analyzed the expression of DRP1A∷GUS (CITATION) and VAN3∷GUS transgenic plants. The VAN3 promoter sequence used in this β-glucuronidase (GUS) fusion constructs includes 1.1 kb upstream from the putative transcription start site, and it is sufficient to complement the van3 mutant phenotype in the complementation test (CITATION). The progeny from three independent VAN3-GUS transgenic plant lines were used for a histochemical analysis of GUS activity. DRP1A∷GUS and VAN3∷GUS transgenic plants showed overlapping reporter gene expression profiles during leaf development. GUS staining was ubiquitously observed in the cotyledons of both the DRP1A∷GUS and VAN3∷GUS transgenic seedlings 2 d after germination (DAG; Fig. 3, A and D). Strong GUS staining was characteristically observed in vascular tissues at 10 DAG (Fig. 3, B and E). At 21 DAG, GUS staining was observed at the margin of the cotyledons (Fig. 3, C and F). A similar expression pattern was observed in the rosette leaves, while a ubiquitous expression of the two genes was observed at early stages of rosette leaf development (Fig. 3, G and K). GUS staining was also observed in developing trichomes (Fig. 3, G, H, K, and L). As leaves developed, the ubiquitous expression was weakened (Fig. 3, H–J, L–N) and restricted to vascular tissues. At this stage, GUS staining was not obvious in the trichomes. This overlapping spatial expression pattern of DRP1A and VAN3 strongly suggests that DRP1A and VAN3 work in the same tissues and cells. [[FIGURE]] To understand the functional interaction between DRP1A and VAN3, we examined the localization of DRP1A and VAN3. Red fluorescent protein (RFP)-tagged DRP1A was introduced into Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells, and their subcellular locations were observed with a confocal laser scanning microscope (Fig. 4A). DRP1A localized to a fiber like structure. In addition to the fiber like structure, a DRP1A positive signal was obvious in some punctate structures (Fig. 4A). It has been suggested that these fiber like structures are microtubules (CITATION; CITATION. To clarify that this is the case, we used green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged MAP4 as a microtubule marker (Fig. 4B). When RFP-tagged DRP1A and the GFP-tagged MAP4 were cointroduced, the DRP1A positive signal overlapped to that of MAP4. This indicated that DRP1A was localized to the microtubules under our conditions (Fig. 4, D–F). [[FIGURE]] The VAN3 protein is known to be located at the TGN (CITATION). We confirmed this by VENUS (CITATION)-tagged VAN3 (Fig. 4C). When VAN3-VENUS and RFP-tagged DRP1A were cointroduced, VAN3-VENUS-positive compartments overlapped the punctate structures of the RFP-DRP1A positive signal (Fig. 4, G–I). Similar overlapping figures were obtained in with tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY2 suspension-cultured cells (data not shown). These results suggest that the VAN3 protein can colocalize with DRP1A at the TGN, which might be associated with microtubules.
!~MM~! The van3 mutant was isolated from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) Landsberg erecta by ethylmethane sulfonate mutagenesis (CITATION). Seeds were sown on the surface of vermiculite in small pots and incubated at 4°C for 3 d. Plants were grown in a laboratory under continuous illumination of 50 to 100 μE/m2 per second at 22°C. For histochemical analysis, GUS staining was performed as described by CITATION, except that samples were incubated in the GUS substrate solution for 10 min. All of the drp1a plants were grown in the Murashige and Skoog medium containing 100 mm Suc to suppress the developmental defects (CITATION). Full-length cDNA of the VAN3 was ligated to the plasmid pAS-2, and the resulting pAS-VAN3 was used as bait to screen an Arabidopsis cDNA library constructed in the pACT2 vector. The cDNA library constructed in pACT2 was transformed to yeast strain Y190 containing pAS-VAN3. Positive colonies were selected on SC-Trp-Leu-His medium. After the confirmation by the retransformation test and X-gal test, the inserts were sequenced. To express the GST-tagged DRP1A protein in a bacteria, an expression plasmid was constructed by use of pGEX-5T. The DRP1A gene was amplified by PCR, and the obtained fragment was ligated into pGEX-5T. The sequence of the DRP1A in the expression plasmid was confirmed by cycle sequencing. Expression of the DRP1A protein was induced in Escherichia coli BL21 cells harboring the expression plasmid by addition of isopropylthio-β-galactoside. Cultivation of the E. coli was carried out at 14°C. When the absorbance of the culture at 600 nm reached 0.8, 1 mm isopropylthio-β-galactoside was added to the culture media, and the cultivation was then continued for an additional 2 d. Purification procedure was carried out at 4°C. A 1-litter culture of E. coli cells was suspended in 50 mL of 10 mm Tris-HCl at pH 7.5, 0.1 mm EDTA, 5 mm β-mercaptoethanol, and sonicated on ice for 2 min, and centrifuged at 15,000 rpm (27,000g) for 30 min. The supernatant was applied to a glutathione column (Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala). After the column had been washed with a phosphate-buffered saline, DRP1A was eluted with a solution containing glutathione. DRP1A GTPase activity was determined using an in vitro assay that measures a single round of GTP hydrolysis on recombinant DRP1A protein (CITATION; CITATION). A total of 5 μm DRP1A was first loaded with 5 μm [α -32P] GTP in a buffer (25 mm HEPES, pH 7.5, 1 mm dithiothreitol, 2 mm EDTA, 1 mm MgCl2, 10 mm ATP, and 0.1% sodium cholate). DRP1A-GTP binding efficiency was calculated by filter assay (CITATION). GTPase assay was performed at 37°C in 50 mm HEPES, pH 7.5, 4 mm MgCl2, and 10 mm ATP. The reaction was initiated by the addition of 1 μm of [α-32P] GTP-loaded DRP1A, and stopped by the addition of 250 mm EDTA, followed by placing on ice. The nucleotides were separated by thin layer chromatography on PEI-cellulose sheets (Merck, Rahway, NJ) developed with 1 m LiCl and 1 m HCOOH. The sheets were dried by air dryer, autoradiographed on an imaging plate, and quantitatively analyzed with a BIO-imaging Analyzer (BAS 2000, Fuji Photo Film, Tokyo). By using the DRP1A-GTP binding efficiency value, we calculated the efficiency of the GTP hydrolysis. In the control experiment, GST protein was incubated in the reaction buffer, and no GTP hydrolysis was observed. Yeast strain Y190 carrying pAS-VAN3 was sonicated on ice for 2 min and centrifuged at 15,000 rpm (27,000g) for 30 min. Proteins included in the supernatant were precipitated by ammonium sulfate. Precipitant was dissolved with Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, and it was dialyzed by Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, to remove ammonium sulfate, resulting in partially purified VAN3-GAL4 DNA binding domain recombinant protein. Recombinant GST-tagged DRP1A protein was also dialyzed against 25 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5. A total of 15 μg of partially purified VAN3-GAL4 DNA binding domain recombinant protein was mixed with 5 μg of purified GST-DRP1A recombinant protein or purified GST recombinant protein in 100 μL reaction buffer (25 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 0.1% Triton X-100). The reaction mixture was shaken at 4°C for 45 min, and 15 μL of glutathione Sepharose 4B bed was then added to the mixture that was shaken for an additional 30 min at 4°C. The glutathione Sepharose 4B bead was then washed five times with 1 mL reaction buffer and boiled in SDS-PAGE sample buffer. After SDS-PAGE, we detected the VAN3 protein by the western-blot experiment, using anti-VAN3 antibody as a probe. Polyclonal anti-VAN3 antibodies were produced against to the synthetic peptide EKMQEYKRQVDRESR by a rabbit. Western-blot experiment was performed as described (CITATION). Full-length VAN3 cDNA was isolated by reverse transcription-PCR from Columbia ecotype, and an XhoI/NcoI restriction site was introduced at both ends. The fragment was translationally fused to the N terminus of VENUS yellow fluorescent protein. The chimeric gene was subcloned under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the Nos terminator. 35S∷RFP-DRP1A was also produced in the same way to the VAN3-VENUS, except for the DRP1A fusion to the C terminus of RFP protein. 35S∷MAP4-GFP and 35S∷Talin-GFP were used as a intracellular markers of tubulin and actin, respectively. Double transient expression of 35∷VAN3-Venus and of intracellular markers in the protoplasts of cultured Arabidopsis cells were analyzed as described by CITATION, CITATION). Fluorescence was observed by confocal laser microscopy (LSM510 META, Carl Zeiss, Jena, Germany).
