!~ABS~! We tested the hypothesis that peroxisomal citrate synthase (CSY) is required for carbon transfer from peroxisomes to mitochondria during respiration of triacylglycerol in Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings. Two genes encoding peroxisomal CSY are expressed in Arabidopsis seedlings, and seeds from plants with both CSY genes disrupted were dormant and did not metabolize triacylglycerol. Germination was achieved by removing the seed coat and supplying sucrose, but the seedlings still did not use triacylglycerol. The mutant seedlings were resistant to 2,4-dichlorophenoxybutyric acid, indicating a block in peroxisomal β-oxidation, and were unable to develop further after transfer to soil. The mutant phenotype was complemented with a cDNA encoding CSY with either its native peroxisomal targeting sequence (PTS2) or a heterologous PTS1 sequence from pumpkin (Cucurbita pepo) malate synthase. These results suggest that peroxisomal CSY in Arabidopsis is not only a key enzyme of the glyoxylate cycle but also catalyzes an essential step in the respiration of fatty acids. We conclude that citrate is exported from the peroxisome during fatty acid respiration, whereas in yeast, acetylcarnitine is exported.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome contains five genes predicted to encode CSY. Phylogenetic analysis shows that they fall into two groups, with two and three members each (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). The intron/exon structure of the genes is highly conserved within the two groups but not between groups. One group comprises two genes, At2g44350 and At3g60100, which have predicted mitochondrial targeting sequences at their N termini. At2g44350 has also been identified in the mitochondrial proteome (CITATION). The three proteins in the other group are more similar in sequence to peroxisomal CSY of pumpkin (Cucurbita pepo) (CITATION) and contain predicted type-2 peroxisomal targeting sequences (PTS2) at their N termini. Such PTS2 sequences are characterized by a conserved R(X)6HL motif. We named these putative peroxisomal CSY genes CSY1 (At3g58740), CSY2 (At3g58750), and CSY3 (At2g42790). To determine which of the putative peroxisomal CSY genes are expressed in germinating seeds and developing seedlings, gene-specific oligonucleotide primers were designed so that transcripts of each gene could be detected by RT-PCR. Because of the high degree of sequence similarity between peroxisomal CSY genes, the specificity of the primers was determined in two ways. First, the RT-PCR products obtained with each primer combination were digested with restriction endonucleases that could distinguish different gene products. The results obtained showed that RT-PCR products obtained with each primer pair were of the predicted size and were digested with specific endonucleases to products of the expected sizes (Figure 2A). Second, the nucleotide sequences of the RT-PCR products were determined and shown to correspond to the predicted gene in each case (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] RNA was isolated from a range of organs of flowering Arabidopsis plants for RT-PCR analysis. CSY2 and CSY3 genes are expressed throughout the shoot, but CSY1 RNA is detected only in siliques (Figure 2B, top panel). CSY1 is expressed in developing seeds during the period when TAG accumulates in the embryo (Figure 2B, middle panel). To examine expression of CSY genes in seedlings, RNA was isolated at daily intervals from day 1 to day 8 (seedlings reaching growth stage 1.02 according to CITATION). CSY2 and CSY3 are both expressed throughout seedling growth, whereas CSY1 RNA was hardly detectable (Figure 2B, bottom panel). Expression of CSY2 and CSY3 could also be detected in imbibed (day 0) seeds (data not shown). Although RT-PCR is not quantitative, we deduce that both CSY2 and CSY3 are expressed strongly throughout seedling development and in the mature shoot. To confirm the peroxisomal targeting of Arabidopsis CSY2 and CSY3, constructs were made encoding the putative PTS2 sequences of each gene fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) and the Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter (Figure 3A). To confirm the identity of peroxisomes, a further construct was made encoding monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP) with a PTS1 sequence at the C-terminal end (Figure 3A). This PTS1 comprised the 10 C-terminal amino acids of pumpkin malate synthase that had previously been verified to transport RFP to peroxisomes in Arabidopsis (CITATION). Plants were transformed with GFP and mRFP transgenes and then crossed and fluorescence observed in the root hairs of seedlings expressing both fluorescent proteins (Figure 3B). Both CSY2 and CSY3 putative PTS2 sequences target GFP to the same microbodies to which PTS1 targets mRFP (Figure 3B). No evidence for targeting of GFP to other organelles was observed. This confirms the peroxisomal targeting of CSY2 and CSY3. [[FIGURE]] To determine the function of CSY during TAG mobilization, two independent T-DNA insertion mutants each were isolated for CSY2 and CSY3 (Figure 4A). In all cases, the T-DNA was inserted within the structural gene and expected to completely disrupt expression of the functional product. Isolation of homozygous knockout mutants was confirmed by PCR analysis (data not shown), and absence of RNA was demonstrated by RT-PCR analysis using RNA from day 2 seedlings as template (Figure 4B). The mutants are named csy2-1, csy2-2, csy3-1, and csy3-2. Mutant seeds germinated normally, and seedling growth was similar to that of the wild type, although such seedlings were slightly smaller than the wild type at day 5 (Figure 4C). When grown in the presence of 1% (w/v) sucrose, mutant and wild-type seedlings are indistinguishable (Figure 4C). Furthermore, growth and development of csy mutants in soil beyond the seedling stage are indistinguishable from the wild type (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Total CSY activity was measured in wild-type, csy2-1, and csy3-1 seedlings at daily intervals (Figure 4D). CSY activity is highest at days 0 to 2 when TAG mobilization begins and is thereafter lower. Both mutants had reduced CSY activity at days 0 to 2 relative to the wild type, and although this difference is small, it is seen consistently. It is reported that 5,5′-dithio-bis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) inhibits peroxisomal CSY activity but not mitochondrial CSY in castor bean (Ricinus communis) endosperm (CITATION), but we could not reliably distinguish these enzymes in Arabidopsis using 5,5′-dithio-bis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) (data not shown). Mutants of csy2 and csy3 were crossed to make double mutants. The F1 double heterozygotes appeared to grow and develop normally, and after selfing, seedlings and plants heterozygous for one csy gene and homozygous mutant for the other csy gene were readily obtained. Thus, only one functional copy of either CSY2 or 3 is sufficient for plant growth and development. By contrast, no csy2 csy3 homozygous double mutant seedlings could be detected in the F2 generation. However, a small proportion of seeds did not germinate, even when provided with exogenous sucrose. The cts mutant germinates at a very low frequency even when provided with sucrose but can be induced to germinate by removal of the seed coat (CITATION). To determine if csy2 csy3 mutants have a similar dormant phenotype, seeds from the F1 heterozygotes that failed to germinate after 5 d of incubation in the presence of sucrose were surgically disrupted to expose or remove the embryo and incubated further in the presence of 3% (w/v) sucrose. Such embryos grew and developed into seedlings, although they grew more slowly than the wild type, and they contained anthocyanins indicative of stress (Figure 5A). PCR analysis on DNA from such seedlings (data not shown) and RT-PCR analysis on RNA (Figure 5B) demonstrated that they were homozygous csy2 csy3 double mutants. [[FIGURE]] Seeds of the cts mutant can be induced to germinate by incubation with propionic or butyric acid (CITATION) or by prolonged stratification (e.g., 4 weeks) at 4°C (CITATION). Although weak organic acids did not apparently increase the frequency of germination of homozygous csy2 csy3 mutant seed, prolonged stratification (4 weeks) at 4°C did increase the number of seeds germinating after transfer to 20°C (data not shown), and some seed of the double mutant did spontaneously germinate after 1 or 2 weeks of incubation on sucrose at 20°C (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). The dormancy of homozygous csy2 csy3 double mutant seeds could be due to a deficiency in the embryo itself, which might be overcome when the physical constraints of the seed coat are removed, or to a maternal effect of the surrounding endosperm or seed coat inhibiting embryo metabolism or growth. Dormant double mutant seed was obtained whether the maternal genotype was heterozygous for csy2 and csy3 or was homozygous for either csy2 or csy3 and heterozygous for the other gene. Double mutant seedlings, whether obtained by surgical treatment or by rare spontaneous germination, failed to establish as mature plants either when maintained on sucrose in vitro or when transferred to soil. By contrast, the cts mutant flowered and produced seed readily when grown in soil (data not shown). Thus, we could not obtain supplies of seeds from homozygous csy2 csy3 double mutant plants. Instead, double mutant seed was routinely obtained from plants homozygous for csy2 and heterozygous for csy3. Approximately 25% of seed failed to germinate after several days of incubation at 20°C, of which a very high proportion was csy2 csy3 homozygous double mutant seed. Such seeds could be used for analysis of the double mutant phenotype. Seeds that did not germinate after 2 d of incubation on plates were induced to germinate by seed coat removal. Two days later, they were assayed for total CSY activity, together with 2-d-old wild-type, csy2, and csy3 seedlings that had germinated normally. The results show that the double mutant seedlings contain only ∼25% of CSY activity compared with the wild type (Figure 5C). The remaining CSY activity is assumed to be mitochondrial. To confirm that the dormant seed phenotype observed in the csy2 csy3 double mutant is due to mutations in the CSY genes and not due to secondary mutations caused during transformation by T-DNA, double mutants were made in all four possible combinations involving the two mutant alleles of each gene. In all cases, a dormant seed phenotype was observed (see Supplemental Table 1 online). To confirm that the phenotype is not due to inherent disruption of expression of other specific genes caused as a consequence of T-DNA insertion in a CSY gene, transgenic complementation was undertaken. The transgene employed comprised the 35S promoter linked to a CSY3 cDNA. Plants that were homozygous csy3/csy3 and heterozygous CSY2/csy2 were subjected to the floral dipping transformation procedure using Agrobacterium tumefaciens (CITATION). The seeds from these plants were plated on hygromycin to select for transformants. Several of the transformants obtained were double homozygous csy2 csy3 mutants containing the transgene (data not shown), which grew normally (Figure 5D). To establish that CSY functions specifically in the peroxisome and not in the mitochondrion because of possible dual targeting of the PTS2 sequence (CITATION), complementation was also performed with a transgene encoding CSY3 targeted to the peroxisome by a PTS1 sequence. The coding information for the 20 N-terminal amino acids of the PTS2 sequence was removed, and the 10 amino acids from the C-terminal end of pumpkin malate synthase that includes the PTS1 sequence (CITATION) were added to the CSY3 cDNA. Again, plants that were homozygous csy3/csy3 and heterozygous CSY2/csy2 were subjected to the floral dipping transformation procedure using Agrobacterium. The seeds from these plants were plated on hygromycin to select for transformants. Several of the transformants obtained were double homozygous csy2 csy3 mutants containing the transgene (data not shown). Such plants grew normally (Figures 5D and 5E). We conclude that the dormant seed and impaired plant growth phenotype is caused by the absence of peroxisomal CSY. Mutants blocked in β-oxidation fail to mobilize TAG and are compromised in germination or seedling growth (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine if csy double mutants can mobilize TAG, embryos were removed from dormant seeds at day 1.5 and grown for 2, 3, 4, and 5 d. The TAG content of such seedlings was determined by the quantitation of eicosenoic acid (20:1) by gas chromatography–mass spectrometry. In csy double mutants, the amount of TAG does not change from day 1.5 to day 5 (Figure 6), whereas that in wild-type seedlings declines rapidly from day 2 such that it is almost absent by day 5 (Figure 6). It is not possible to identify homozygous mutant seed before 1.5 d, so we cannot determine TAG content at day 0. However, because TAG does not decline after day 1.5, and is similar in amount to that of wild-type seedlings at day 0, we assume that TAG does not decline between day 0 and day 1.5. [[FIGURE]] Transmission electron microscopy was performed on thin sections prepared from the rare csy2 csy3 double mutant seedlings that spontaneously germinate. The genotype of such seedlings 5 d after germination was confirmed by RT-PCR analysis of one cotyledon, whereas the other was used for electron microscopy. Although lipid bodies are not present in wild-type seedlings at day 5 (Figures 7A and 7B), they persist in mutant seedlings (Figures 7C and 7D). These results are similar to those observed with kat2/ped1 (CITATION; CITATION) and cts1 seedlings (CITATION). In cells of kat2/ped1 cotyledons at day 5, extremely large peroxisomes are seen (CITATION; CITATION). By contrast, the peroxisomes of cts1 appear to be normal in size (CITATION). The peroxisomes in the csy2 csy3 double mutant seedlings at day 5 are enlarged relative to those of the wild type, and they contain inclusions (Figure 7D), although these features are not as pronounced as in kat2/ped1 seedlings. [[FIGURE]] To test if the block in TAG mobilization is due to a block in β-oxidation, we employed the proherbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxybutyric acid (2,4-DB). This is converted by peroxisomal β-oxidation to the herbicide 2,4-D, leading to severe inhibition of root growth; thus, seedlings blocked in β-oxidation are resistant to 2,4-DB (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Homozygous csy2 csy3 double mutant embryos obtained by surgical removal from dormant seeds were grown on medium containing 2,4-DB. The results show that the double mutant seedlings are resistant to 2,4-DB, but sensitive to 2,4-D, whereas wild-type seedlings are sensitive to both (Figure 8A). The degree of resistance of the double mutant seedlings is similar to that observed with known β-oxidation mutants, including cts1 (CITATION) and ped1 (CITATION). We deduce that peroxisomal β-oxidation is blocked in the csy double mutant. Genes encoding enzymes of all key steps in β-oxidation are expressed normally in such seedlings (Figure 8B), indicating that there is not a generalized depression of expression of such genes. Expression of CSY4 encoding the major mitochondrial CSY is also normal (Figure 8B). The difficulty in obtaining sufficient quantities of homozygous double mutant seeds precluded detailed biochemical studies of β-oxidation enzyme activities. [[FIGURE]] Expression of genes encoding enzymes of β-oxidation can be increased during carbon starvation or senescence of plant cells and tissues (CITATION; CITATION). To determine if this is true of CSY2 and CSY3, fully expanded source leaves were detached from plants at growth stage 3.90 (CITATION) and incubated in the dark for 0, 2, and 4 d, after which RNA was isolated. RT-PCR analysis showed that the RNA encoding CSY3 increased slightly in response to carbon starvation and that CSY2 RNA increased markedly. By comparison, RNA for long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase (LACS7) and MFP2 increased little, whereas that for thiolase (KAT2) and acyl-CoA oxidase (ACOX2) increased markedly in response to dark treatment (Figure 9). Malate synthase and isocitrate lyase gene expression was not detected in these leaves, indicating that the glyoxylate cycle is not active (Figure 9). These results are consistent with a role for peroxisomal CSY in the respiration of fatty acids. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were surface-sterilized, stratified, and germinated as described previously (CITATION). Seedlings were grown on half-strength MS medium (Sigma-Aldrich, Poole, Dorset, UK) with or without sucrose in continuous light (100 μmol·m−2·s−1) at 22°C unless otherwise stated. Double mutant seedlings were obtained from the embryos of dormant seeds and grown on half-strength MS medium containing 3% (w/v) sucrose for 7 d before transfer to soil. The amino acids sequences of Arabidopsis, pumpkin (Curcurbita pepo), and Saccharomyces cerevisiae CSYs were aligned using ClustalX and then edited using Bioedit software (version 4.8.4; http://www.mbio.ncsu.edu/RNaseP/info/programs/BIOEDIT/bioedit.html). Protdist was used to calculate a distance matrix and then Neighbor was used to build a phylogentic tree (both programs part of PHYLIP software package, version 3.63; http://evolution.genetics.washington.edu/phylip.html). Bootstrap analysis was then performed with 1000 replicates using the same combination of programs. Arabidopsis seed lines containing T-DNA insertions in the CSY2 and 3 genes were obtained from the Syngenta SAIL collection (csy2-1, csy2-2, and csy3-1; CITATION) and the SALK collection (csy3-2; CITATION). PCR-based screening was used to identify individuals homozygous for T-DNA insertions in CSY2 (At3g58750) and CSY3 (At2g42790) genes. The gene-specific primers CSY2_For (5′-GTCTGATACCGTCGGATTGG-3′), CSY3_For (5′-CGGAAGGAAAACAGGATTCTCC-3′), and CSY_comRev (5′-CCAGTGTGACAAGTATCCAGC-3′) were used in combination with T-DNA left border primers (CITATION; CITATION). RNA was isolated from seedlings using the Qiagen RNAeasy kit (Crawley, West Sussex, UK) and used to generate cDNA with either the Qiagen Omniscript or Qiagen Sensiscript RT-PCR kit. PCR was performed for 35 cycles with gene-specific primers (5′–3′) as follows: ACT2 (CAACCAATCGTGTGTGA and CTGTGAACGATTCCTGGA), CSY1 (CTGAGCCGAATCAGGTGTTGC and CCAGTGTGACAAGTATCCAGC), CSY2 (GTCTGATACCGTCGGATTGG and CCAGTGTGACAAGTATCCAGC), CSY3 (CGGAAGGAAAACAGGATTCTCC and CCAGTGTGACAAGTATCCAGC), CSY4 (AGCAGGACCGTCTGAAGAAA and CGGAATAACCTTGCCACTGT), LACS7 (GTATGGTGGTGTTGCTGTCG and ATGGTTCTGGCACCAAAGTC), ACOX2 (CTTCCAACTCATGATTCCAAAGGAGTC and CAGCAGCCACCTGTTGCAGAAGTACAG), MFP2 (CCTTGACATAGTCGGGAGGA and GGCATTCCAAACTTGCTGAT), KAT2 (GAGTCCATGACTACCAATCCAATGCC and CCCAAGAGAAGCAAGAGTTGTGGTTG), MLS (ATGGAGCTCGAGACCTCAGTTTATC and GAGCCTTGAGACATTGATAGGGTAG), ICL (GCAGAGGGAGGCAAGAATGAGCATG and TAACACTCGGCCTTGCTCATTTGAC). The plasmids used in this study are all based on the double CaMV 35S promoter and CaMV terminator cassette inserted into the pGreen binary vector p0179, which confers hygromycin resistance, except p35S:mRFP-SRL, which was cloned into pGreen0045, which confers kanamycin resistance (CITATION). A CSY3 cDNA was obtained from Riken (pda02633; CITATION) and subcloned within the CaMV cassette to generate p35S:CSY3. A modified CSY3 cDNA was generated in which the first 60 bases, corresponding to the PTS2 signal sequence, were deleted and a PTS1 sequence, corresponding to the last 10 amino acids of the pumpkin MLS gene (CITATION; CITATION) were fused at the 3′ end. This construct was called p35S:ΔCSY3-SRL. GFP constructs p35S:CSY2-GFP and p35S:CSY3-GFP were generated by fusing the leader sequence, corresponding to the first 44 and 40 amino acids of CSY2 and CSY3, respectively, to the coding sequence for GFP and subcloning these fragments into the CaMV cassette. A peroxisomally targeted mRFP construct, p35S:mRFP-SRL, was generated by addition of the pumpkin MLS PTS1 sequence at the 3′ end. The fragment was subcloned into the CaMV cassette and cloned into pGreen0045. The plasmid constructs were transfected in Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (CITATION), and Arabidopsis was subjected to transformation by the floral dip method (CITATION). Seed collected from dipped plants was screened on the appropriate antibiotic and resistant seedlings selected and verified by PCR. Confocal microscopy was performed to observe GFP and mRFP in root hair cells as previously described (CITATION). For transmission electron microscopy, cotyledons from seedlings germinated for 5 d on half-strength MS medium supplemented with 1% (w/v) sucrose were processed as previously described (CITATION) For enzyme assays, tissue extracts were prepared from Arabidopsis seedlings, and CSY activity was assayed as described (CITATION). Protein content was determined as reported (CITATION) using BSA as the standard. Total fatty acids were extracted and quantified by gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (CITATION) using C20:1 as a marker for TAG. Arabidopsis Genome Initiative numbers of the five putative CSY sequences from Arabidopsis are At3g58740, At3g58750, At2g42790, At2g44350, and At3g60100. The CSY gene name has been registered with The Arabidopsis Information Resource.
