!~ABS~! The leucine-rich-repeat receptor serine/threonine kinase, BRI1, is a cell-surface receptor for brassinosteroids (BRs), the steroid hormones of plants, yet its activation mechanism is unknown. Here, we report a unique autoregulatory mechanism of BRI1 activation. Removal of BRI1’s C terminus leads to a hypersensitive receptor, indicated by suppression of dwarfism of BR-deficient and BR-perception mutants and by enhanced BR signaling as a result of elevated phosphorylation of BRI1. Several sites in the C-terminal region can be phosphorylated in vitro, and transgenic Arabidopsis expressing BRI1 mutated at these sites demonstrates an essential role of phosphorylation in BRI1 activation. BRI1 is a ligand-independent homo-oligomer, as evidenced by the transphosphorylation of BRI1 kinase in vitro, the dominant-negative effect of a kinase-inactive BRI1 in transgenic Arabidopsis, and coimmunoprecipitation experiments. Our results support a BRI1-activation model that involves inhibition of kinase activity by its C-terminal domain, which is relieved upon ligand binding to the extracellular domain.
!~RES~! Genetic studies indicate that BRI1 kinase activity is required for the function of BRI1 (CITATION). We sought to understand the mechanism whereby BRI1 kinase is regulated. Like most protein kinases, BRI1 kinase can be phosphorylated at multiple sites through the intracellular-juxtamembrane (JM) domain, the catalytic domain, and the C-terminal (CT) domain (CITATION; CITATIONA). Most loss-of-function mutations in BRI1 map to conserved regions in the catalytic domain (CITATION), but whether the JM and CT domains play regulatory roles in the activation of BRI1 kinase is unknown. To investigate the possible functions of these regions, we created a set of full-length and truncated BRI1 constructs (CITATIONA) with a C-terminal FLAG epitope tag driven by the native BRI1 promoter and introduced them into different Arabidopsis strains, including a BR-perception mutant, bri1-5, and a BR-biosynthetic mutant, det2-1. The bri1-5 background enables us to determine which truncated receptors are functional, and the det2-1 background allows us to assess the dependence of each receptor on ligand. As shown in CITATIONA, these constructs include the full-length BRI1 (BRI1-FL-FLAG), BRI1 with a C-terminal 41 amino acid deletion (BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG), BRI1 with a deletion of the intracellular-juxtamembrane region (residues 815 to 882) (BRI1-ΔJM-FLAG), the whole intracellular domain of BRI1 (BRI1-JKC-FLAG), the intracellular domain with the C-terminal 41 amino acids deleted (BRI1-JK-FLAG), the intracellular domain with the intracellular JM deletion (BRI1-KC-FLAG), and the intracellular domain with both the C-terminal and JM domains deleted (BRI1-K-FLAG). Four constructs with only portions of the intracellular domain (BRI1-JKC-FLAG, BRI1-JK-FLAG, BRI1-KC-FLAG, and BRI1-K-FLAG) did not suppress the dwarf phenotype of either bri1-5 (CITATIONB) or det2-1 (CITATIONC). Most likely, these proteins were mislocalized or unstable; we could not detect expressed protein in transgenic bri1-5 or det2-1 plants (data not shown). BRI1-ΔJM-FLAG also did not rescue bri1-5 or det2-1, although a significant amount of protein was detectable in the transgenic lines by immunoblotting (CITATIOND), indicating that the JM region is required for a functional receptor. To determine the cellular localization of this truncated receptor, we expressed BRI1-ΔJM from the BRI1 promoter with a C-terminal yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) tag. Although some BRI1-ΔJM-YFP fusion protein is localized to the cytoplasm, there is a significant amount that localized to the cell surface, indicating that the JM domain is not essential for BRI1 to get to the surface (CITATIONE). Moreover, an in vitro kinase assay of the BRI1 intracellular domain lacking the JM region showed slightly lower but significant amounts of autophosphorylation in vitro (X.W. and J.C., unpublished data), suggesting that the JM domain is not essential for in vitro kinase activity. These results indicate that BRI1 kinase may require the JM region to be fully activated in vivo or that the JM domain is required for recruiting BRI1’s substrates. As expected, BRI1-FL-FLAG completely suppressed the dwarf phenotype of bri1-5 (CITATIONB), but it also significantly suppressed the det2-1 phenotype (CITATION ). An explanation for this is that levels of BR produced by det2-1 are about 10% of levels produced by wild-type (CITATION), and plants with overexpressed receptors may become more sensitive to BL. Expression of BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG showed the most striking phenotype. BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG completely or partially suppressed the dwarf phenotype of either bri1-5 or det2-1 to a greater extent than BRI1-FL-FLAG did, as measured by the length of hypocotyls (longer hypocotyls equal more BR response) (CITATIONB and 1C), even though the level of BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG protein was lower than that of BRI1-FL-FLAG (CITATIOND). BRI1-ΔCT-YFP was properly localized to the cell surface (CITATIONF). These results suggest that the BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG is a gain-of-function mutation of BRI1 and results in a more active receptor. For detailed phenotypic analyses of BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG and BRI1-FL-FLAG transgenic Arabidopsis, two transgenic lines for each construct were assayed quantitatively. Hypocotyl length was used as an output of the activity of each receptor. In the light, both BRI1-FL-FLAG and BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG completely rescued the bri1-5 mutant and showed a hypermorphic phenotype, and, likewise, BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG bri1-5 lines had longer hypocotyls than BRI1-FL-FLAG bri1-5 lines at similar protein levels (CITATIONA). In the det2-1 background, transgenic Arabidopsis expressing BRI1-FL-FLAG had significantly longer hypocotyls than det2-1 (CITATIONB). The BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG det2-1 lines resulted in long hypocotyls (CITATIONB and 2C), which were even longer than those resulting from the wild-type Col-0, indicating that BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG is a more active receptor than the wild-type and that the CT domain somehow inhibits BRI1 function. In addition to elongated hypocotyls, the transgenic plants also showed expanded leaves, elongated petioles, and increased fertility compared to their host mutant plants (data not shown), which supports the interpretation that BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG plants are hypersensitive to BRs. To further assess ligand-dependence of these transgenic plants, we measured their response to an inhibitor of BR biosynthesis, BRZ220 (CITATION). We observed that hypocotyl elongation of det2-1, transgenic det2-1 with BRI1-FL-FLAG, and the wild-type was strongly inhibited by low levels of BRZ220, whereas transgenic det2-1 with BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG was more resistant to this chemical (CITATIOND). With 2 μM BRZ in the growth medium, we observed that hypocotyl elongation of wild-type and det2-1 was dramatically reduced, by 59% and 60%, respectively, and that the hypocotyl length of transgenic det2-1 with BRI1-FL-FLAG was also greatly reduced (by 75%). However, the hypocotyl length of transgenic det2-1 with BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG was only slightly reduced (by about 14%), and their hypocotyls were even longer than that of BRI1-FL-FLAG det2-1 lines without BRZ (CITATIOND). These results suggest that hypocotyl elongation of BRI1-FL-FLAG transgenic lines still largely relied on BL; in contrast, BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG transgenic plants were less dependent on BL. We then asked whether the enhanced hypocotyl elongation caused by BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG expression was due to elevated BRI1 signaling. Previous studies have shown that dephosphorylated BES1 accumulates in the nucleus in response to BL (CITATION). Therefore, we quantified the dephosphorylated BES1 in these transgenic det2-1 seedlings by immunoblot analysis with anti-BES1 antibodies. As shown in CITATIONE, a greatly elevated accumulation of dephosphorylated BES1 was observed in the BRI1-FL-FLAG and BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG det2-1 lines compared to det2-1. In the absence of BL, there was significantly (p < 0.05) more of the dephosphorylated BES1 in BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG det2-1 lines than in the BRI1-FL-FLAG det2-1 lines. Treatment with 0.1 μM BL for one hour enhanced the accumulation of dephosphorylated BES1 in all samples; the transgenic BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG det2-1 accumulated a significantly (p < 0.05) larger amount of dephosphorylated BES1 than did those expressing BRI1-FL-FLAG (CITATIONE). These data demonstrate that BRI1 lacking the CT domain enhanced its downstream-signaling output. There are several possible mechanisms by which the CT domain could negatively regulate BRI1 activity: It may directly inhibit BRI1’s kinase activity and/or substrate access; it may recruit other proteins that inhibit BRI1’s kinase activity; and/or it may recruit inhibitory proteins that block substrate binding. To distinguish between these possibilities, we first compared the in vitro kinase activity of the BRI1 intracellular domain with (JKC) or without (JK) the CT domain expressed as an N-terminal Glutathionine-S-Transferase (GST) fusion. Our results revealed that the GST-JK had significantly higher (2-fold) autophosphorylation activity than the GST-JKC had (CITATIONA), suggesting that the CT domain could directly inhibit BRI1 kinase activity. To determine whether BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG had elevated kinase activity in planta, we fed seedlings radioactive orthophosphate (32PO4) and monitored phosphorylation of BRI1 expressed with a C-terminal FLAG tag. Autoradiography and immunoblot analysis of immunoprecipitated BRI1-FLAG from transgenic plants demonstrated that BL induced BRI1 phosphorylation, as expected, and that BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG was phosphorylated to a greater extent than BRI1-FL-FLAG. As shown in CITATIONB, without BL treatment the 32P radioactive signals in both BRI1-FL-FLAG and BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG transgenic det2-1 plants were low (0.30 ± 0.09 for FL versus 0.56 ± 0.19 for ΔCT; p = 0.087). After a 10 min treatment with BL, the radioactive signal was enhanced in both BRI1-FL-FLAG and BRI1-ΔCT-FLAG (0.82 ± 0.21 for FL versus 1.27 ± 0.14 for ΔCT; p = 0.100), and a longer treatment (30 min) with BL further increased the level of 32P incorporation into both forms of BRI1 (0.98 ± 0.11 for FL versus 2.08 ± 0.37 for ΔCT; p = 0.025). Thus, BRI1 in vivo phosphorylation is tightly regulated by both its ligand and its own structure. Phosphorylation is one of the most prevalent forms of protein modification and is often a key regulatory component in signal-transduction cascades (CITATION). The CT region of BRI1 contains six serine and two threonine residues (CITATIONA). To test whether any of these residues can be phosphorylated, we synthesized a 41-mer peptide (CT-41: 1156–1196) and a 25-mer peptide (CT-25: 1172–1196), which were in vitro phosphorylated by BRI1 kinase. Phosphoamino acid analysis indicated that both Ser and Thr residues were phosphorylated in both peptides (CITATIONB). T1180 is one residue that is phosphorylated because it is the only Thr in CT-25. We also compared tryptic phosphopeptide digests of CT-41, GST-JKC, and GST-JK by separation in two dimensions on thin-layer cellulose (TLC) plates. As shown in CITATIONC, although the CT-41 peptide contains only two predicted Ser/Thr-containing tryptic phosphopeptides, tryptic digestion of this peptide generated five well-defined radioactive spots, which are most likely indicative of peptides carrying multiple phosphates or of partially-cleaved peptides. Consistent with this, most of these spots (circled in CITATIONC) are present in the GST-JKC map but absent in the GST-JK map, confirming that these residues are phosphorylated in the CT domain. The one significant spot (squared in CITATIONC) present in the CT map but absent in the GST-JKC map may represent the N-terminal phosphopeptide with an additional uncleaved lysine residue (KEIQAGSGIDSQSTI); trypsin is known to be a poor aminopeptidase, and the predicted mobility of this phosphopeptide (Genestream) supports this explanation. Analysis of phosphopeptide maps of mixtures of the digests of GST-JKC and CT-41 (JKC+CT) or GST-JK and CT-41 (JK+CT) samples was also consistent with this interpretation (CITATIONC). To further investigate the phosphorylation sites in the CT region, we constructed BRI1 mutations by substituting certain or all of the Ser/Thr residues with the acidic amino acid Asp, which, in some cases, can mimic the phosphorylation of Ser/Thr. The intracellular domains of these three mutants (N5D, C3D, and All-D; see CITATIOND) were expressed as GST fusion proteins and autophosphorylated in vitro. Analysis of phosphopeptide maps of samples doubly digested with trypsin and thermolysin further suggested that several Ser and Thr were phosphorylated in the CT region and that S1162 is likely to be one phosphorylation site because all mutants containing S1162D lost one significant phosphopeptide in comparison to wild-type BRI1 kinase (see Figure S1 in the Supplemental Data available with this article online). Taken together, our data suggest that the CT domain of BRI1 likely contains at least two phosphorylation sites, S1162 and T1180, with other as yet undetermined sites. Additional in vitro phosphorylation sites are located in the catalytic domain and the juxtamembrane domain (data not shown), accounting for the complexity of the peptide maps. To determine the regulatory role of the potential phosphorylation sites of the C-terminal region on BRI1 function in vitro, we measured the kinase activity of BRI1 containing three different combinations of point mutations in the CT region. These assays indicated that the BRI1 mutant with five Ser/Thr mutated to Asp proximal to the catalytic domain (N5D) had slightly elevated autophosphorylation, whereas the BRI1 mutant with all eight Ser/Thr mutated to Asp (All-D) and the C3D (with the S1162D mutation plus the three Ser/Thr to Asp in the distal CT region) significantly increased kinase activity (CITATIONE). These data suggest that the phosphorylated residues (most likely including T1180) in the distal C-terminal region are involved in the direct inhibition of kinase activity. To assess the function of these bri1 mutants in planta, we transformed the three full-length BRI1 variants, N5D, C3D, and All-D, which were expressed with a C-terminal FLAG tag under the control of the native BRI1 promoter, into the BR-deficient mutant, det2-1. As an output of BRI1 signaling, hypocotyl lengths of the progeny of transformed plants (T2) were measured. The expression level of BRI1 in the transgenic lines was determined with anti-BRI1 antibody (CITATIONF). In agreement with the in vitro kinase assays, the BRI1-C3D-FLAG and BRI1-All-D-FLAG, in comparison to wild-type BRI1, greatly enhanced hypocotyl elongation. Moreover, the BRI1-N5D-FLAG, in comparison to wild-type BRI1, also significantly enhanced hypocotyl elongation (CITATIONF). These data suggest that phosphorylation of some residues in the CT domain releases its inhibitory effect on BRI1 activity in vitro and in planta. The fact that the CT-41 peptide was phosphorylated by BRI1 in vitro suggests that transphosphorylation between BRI1 molecules is possible. To test this, we incubated GST-JKC and GST-JK together in a kinase assay, and we observed that the phosphorylation of both proteins was enhanced as compared to each kinase alone (CITATIONA). To test whether a kinase-inactive BRI1 can be phosphorylated by BRI1 kinase, we constructed a kinase-inactive BRI1-JKC (K911E), called mJKC (CITATION), and incubated it with GST-JKC. We found that mJKC completely lacked kinase activity and that the wild-type BRI1 kinase could efficiently transphosphorylate mJKC (CITATIONB). If homo-oligomerization is required for the activation of BRI1 in vivo, it is reasonable to expect that expression of a kinase-inactive BRI1 in plants will negatively affect the function of wild-type BRI1. To test this prediction, we expressed a full-length kinase-inactive BRI1 (K911E) with a C-terminal FLAG tag in bri1-5 and wild-type Ws-2 backgrounds driven by a BRI1 promoter. In the bri1-5 background, all T1 seedlings (more than 40) displayed a severe bri1 phenotype, as shown in CITATIONC, with dwarf stature, dark green leaves, and complete sterility. A dominant-negative effect was also observed in the wild-type Ws-2 background (CITATIOND). Because some lines with high expression levels of kinase-inactive BRI1 were sterile, later generations (T3) of some lines with only low or moderate expression levels of transgenes were established. Phenotypic analysis of light-grown seedlings indicated that the degree of inhibition of endogenous BRI1 function was correlated with the expression level of the transgenes, with higher expression levels causing smaller and shorter seedlings (CITATIOND and 5E). To test whether this effect was caused by ligand titration for endogenous BRI1, we measured the response of the transgenic plants to exogenously applied BL. In these experiments, the transgenic lines were less sensitive to BL treatment than the wild-type Ws-2 were (CITATIONF), and line 9-3, which expresses a higher level of mutated BRI1 protein, was the least sensitive to BL, suggesting that the dominant-negative effect is not caused by the titration of available BL by the mutant BRI1. Thus, expression of a kinase-inactive BRI1 resulted in a dominant-negative phenotype, probably by interrupting endogenous BRI1 function. To further determine a physical interaction between BRI1 molecules in vivo and whether this interaction was BL-dependent, we created transgenic plants expressing both BRI1-FLAG and BRI1-CFP in the BR-deficient mutant background, det2-1, and tested for coimmunoprecipitation of the two tagged forms of BRI1. Total membrane proteins were isolated, as described in the CITATION, from transgenic seedlings containing both BRI1-FLAG and BRI1-CFP, and the transgenic plants containing only BRI1-GFP were used as a control. To determine a possible effect of ligand binding on BRI1 oligomerization, we treated one set of cotransformed seedlings with 1 μM of BL, which was also present in all buffers during the coimmunoprecipitation process. As shown in CITATIONG, BRI1 interacted with itself in plants, both in the presence and absence of ligand, and BL treatment appeared to increase the extent of coimmunoprecipitation, suggesting that BL binding may also stabilize the preformed BRI1 dimer.
!~MM~! Columbia (Col-0) and Wassilewskiji (Ws-2) ecotypes, BR-perception mutant bri1-5 (in the Ws-2 background), and BR-biosynthetic mutant, det2-1 (in the Col-0 background), were used. Seeds were sterilized by 10–15 min treatment in 70% (v/v) ethanol followed by a 10 min wash with 95% (v/v) ethanol. Phenotypic analyses of all transgenic lines and controls were conducted on plates with 1/2 MS (Gibco) and 0.8% phytagar (Gibco), with the addition of 30 μl/ml Kanamycin for selecting transgenic plants. Plants were grown at 22°C under white light (16-hr-light/8-hr-dark cycles for long-day treatment or 8-hr-light/16-hr-dark cycles for short-day treatment) or continuous dark. Full-length and truncated BRI1 were amplified by PCR from the Col-0 BRI1 cDNA via Pfu DNA polymerase (Stratagene) and were cloned into the binary vector pCHF3 that contains a BRI1 promoter (CITATION), a C-terminal FLAG tag (DYKDDDDKVKL) fusion, and the Rubisco small subunit (rbcS) terminator. These constructs were transformed into bri1-5 and/or det2-1. Full-length kinase-inactive BRI1 (mBRI1) with the K911E mutation was cloned into the pCHF3 vector with a C-terminal FLAG tag or into the pCHF1 vector with a C-terminal cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) tag. All constructs were confirmed by sequencing. Similarly, BRI1-ΔJM and BRI1-ΔCT with C-terminal YFP fusions were constructed and transformed into Col-0 or Ws-2 plants, and their subcellular localization was visualized and photographed with a Delta vision deconvolution fluorescence microscope. The full intracellular domain of BRI1 (JKC) and intracellular domain with CT deletion (JK) were cloned into the pET42a vector (Novagen), resulting in an N-terminal GST fusion protein. Proteins were expressed in BL21 (DE3) Codon plus RIL (Stratagene) and purified with glutathione agarose beads (Sigma). The kinase-inactive GST-BRI1 kinase (K911E) fusion was created by PCR-based mutagenesis, and once expressed, the GST tag was cleaved with factor Xa (New England Biolabs). Each reaction contained 50 mM HEPES [pH 7.4], 10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM MnCl2, 1 mM DTT, 10 μM ATP, 1 μl (10 μCi) [γ-32P] ATP, 2 μg of each protein, and double deionized H2O in a final volume of 24 μl. Reactions were terminated by the addition of 8 μl of 4× SDS loading buffer. Samples were separated on a 4%–20% Tris-Glycine SDS-PAGE gel (Invitrogen), which was then stained, destained, dried, and autoradiographed. Plant tissues were ground to fine powder in liquid nitrogen. Total protein was extracted with 2× SDS buffer (1μl/mg), separated on a 4%–20% Novex Tris-Glycine SDS-PAGE gel (Invitrogen), and transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane (Bio-Rad). Monoclonal anti-FLAG antibody (Sigma) and goat anti-mouse HRP-conjugated secondary antibody (Bio-Rad) were used to detect FLAG fusion proteins in immunoblots. Polyclonal anti-BES1 antibody (CITATION) and donkey anti-mouse IRDye 800-conjugated secondary antibody (Rockland Immunochemicals) were used to quantify BES1, and the resulting signals were quantified with the Odyssey Infrared Imaging system (LI-COR Biosciences). Multiclonal anti-GFP antibody (Molecular Probes) and goat anti-rabbit HRP-conjugated secondary antibody (Bio-Rad) were used to detect green fluorescent protein (GFP)- or CFP-tagged proteins in immunoblots. Signals were detected by incubating the membrane with Super Signal West Pico Chemiluminescent solution (Pierce) and exposing them to X-ray film (Kodak). Light-grown seedlings were starved in H2O containing 1 μM BRZ220 for 24 hr and were incubated in 3 ml H2O containing 1 μM BRZ220 and 0.5 mCi of 32PO4 overnight. Plant tissues were washed five to six times with water, frozen, and ground to a fine powder in liquid nitrogen. The sample was dissolved in extraction buffer (2 ml/g) (50 mM Tris-HCl [pH 7.5], 10 mM EDTA, 150 mM NaCl, 50 mM NaF, 500 nM microcystin, 1:30 dilution of protease inhibitor cocktail for plant cells [Sigma], 10% glycerol, and 0.5% Triton X-100) and then spun at 5,000 × g for 10 min at 4°C. The supernatant was transferred into a new tube and incubated with anti-FLAG M2 affinity gel (Sigma) for 3 hr at 4°C. The beads were washed three times with extraction buffer. The immunoprecipitates were eluted with 1× SDS buffer, separated on a 4%–20% Novex Tris-Glycine SDS-PAGE gel (Invitrogen), transferred to a PVDF membrane (Millipore), incubated with anti-FLAG (Sigma) followed by donkey anti-mouse IRDye 800-conjugated secondary antibody (Rockland Immunochemicals), and quantified with the Odyssey Infrared Imaging system (LI-COR Biosciences). The 32P radioactive signal of BRI1-FLAG was quantified with a PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics). The specific activity of each sample was calculated by the ratio of arbitrary units of 32P radioactive signal to the amount of protein and was further normalized with the mean of all six samples on the same membrane. The CT-41 and CT-25 peptides (see CITATIONA) of BRI1 were synthesized with standard Fmoc chemistry on an ABI Synergy 432A peptide synthesizer. The peptides were deprotected and cleaved from the resin and then purified by ether precipitation. Analysis with mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF) showed the expected masses. The CT-41 peptide was further purified by HPLC to eliminate some shorter sequences from the preparation. The CT-41 and CT-25 peptides were phosphorylated by BRI1 kinase as described above, and they were separated in and excised from a Novex 16% Tricine SDS-PAGE gel (Invitrogen); phosphoamino acid analysis was performed in accordance with the procedures described by CITATION. Phosphopeptide mapping was conducted in accordance with the procedures (for sample preparation) described by CITATION. The final tryptic digests were loaded onto the TLC plates and separated by electrophoresis at (pH 1.9) for 30 min at 1 kV in the first dimension; the second dimension was achieved by ascending chromatogram with phosphochromo buffer for 16–18 hr. Total protein was extracted from transgenic det2-1 plants containing BRI1-CFP and BRI1-FLAG and from transgenic Col-0 containing BRI1-GFP alone. Short-day grown seedlings were treated with H2O or 1 μM of BL for 1 hr, ground to fine powder in liquid nitrogen, and solubilized with 2× extraction buffer (100 mM Tris-HCl [pH 7.5], 300 mM NaCl, 2 mM EDTA, 10% glycerol, and 1:100 of protease inhibitor cocktail [Sigma]). The extracts were centrifuged at 5,000 × g for 10 min, and the resultant supernatant was transferred to a new tube and centrifuged again at 5,000 × g for 5 min. The supernatant was filtered through two layers of miracloth (CalBiochem) and was spun at 100,000 × g for 90 min at 4°C to obtain the total microsomal fraction. The pellet was resuspended in membrane solubilization buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl [pH 7.5], 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 10% glycerol, 0.2% Triton X-100, and 1:100 protease inhibitor cocktail) to release membrane proteins. The solution was spun again at 100,000 × g for 60 min at 4°C, and the supernatant was used for immunoprecipitation. The immunoprecipitation was performed by incubating the supernatant with prewashed anti-FLAG M2 affinity gel (Sigma) for 3 hr, which was followed by washing in the same buffer four times. For the BL-treated samples, 1 μM of BL was present in the extraction and solubilization buffers. The immunoprecipitates were eluted with 1.5 × SDS sample buffer by boiling for 5 min. Either total membrane or immunoprecipitated proteins were separated on a 4%–20% Novex Tris-Glycine SDS-PAGE gel and transferred to nitrocellulose membrane for immunoblot analysis with monoclonal anti-FLAG M2 (Sigma) or polyclonal anti-GFP (Molecular Probes) antibodies.
