!~ABS~! Arabidopsis thaliana contains three genes with high homology to potato p24 which was described as a member of the Whirly family of nuclear transcriptional activators. Computer-based analysis revealed that all Arabidopsis Whirly (Why) proteins contain targeting sequences for either plastids or mitochondria. The functionality of these sequences was demonstrated by in vitro import assays into isolated organelles. Transient expression of GFP fusion proteins in protoplasts and onion epidermal cells confirmed the localisation of these proteins in plastids or mitochondria, respectively. The possession of organellar targeting sequences seems to be conserved among Why proteins of higher plant species, including potato p24.
!~RES~! The genome of A. thaliana contains three genes that code for proteins sharing the conserved KGKAAL domain and other structural features with the potato p24 protein. In this study, these genes will be referred to as why1 , why2 and why3 . Among the three corresponding proteins, the AtWhy1 protein (gene locus At1g14410) shows the highest homology to potato p24 (68%) while AtWhy2 (At1g71260) and AtWhy3 (At2g02740) share only 47% and 30%, respectively, of the amino acid residues with p24. None of the three proteins was predicted to have a nuclear localisation signal by the program PredictNLS CITATION . The prediction programs iPSORT and TargetP CITATION , instead, predicted a high probability for N-terminal chloroplast transit peptides in the case of AtWhy1 and AtWhy3, whereas the N-terminal portion of AtWhy2 could represent a putative mitochondrial import sequence ( CITATION ). In order to test whether the putative import signals of the p24 orthologues of A. thaliana are indeed functional, chloroplast and mitochondrial import assays with full-length 35 S-labelled proteins were performed. In the case of AtWhy1, a second methionine is encoded at amino acid position 10 that is recognised as an alternative translation start codon by both wheat germ extract (data not shown) as well as rabbit reticulocyte lysate ( CITATION ), resulting in a double band of the unprocessed precursor form ( CITATION , 34 kDa). When isolated chloroplasts were incubated with this precursor protein an additional band arose that was about 6 kDa smaller than the initial translation products ( CITATION , 28 kDa). This size shift corresponds to the predicted cleavage site at position 47 of AtWhy1 ( CITATION ). In contrast to the precursor, this protein was not sensitive to digestion by the protease thermolysin, indicating that this band represents the imported mature form of AtWhy1 that is protected by the chloroplast envelope membrane from digestion. The incubation with mitochondria, on the other hand, did not result in the production of a smaller processed form of the precursor ( CITATION ). We therefore conclude that the predicted plastid transit peptide of AtWhy1 can efficiently and selectively promote the import of this protein into plastids. In contrast, the full-length translation product of AtWhy2 (31 kDa) yielded processed lower molecular weight products after incubation with mitochondria as well as with chloroplasts ( CITATION ). While the size of the mitochondrial cleavage product corresponded to the expected molecular weight of mature AtWhy2 as deduced from computer predictions (27 kDa), a significantly smaller cleavage product was observed after incubation with chloroplasts ( CITATION , 21 kDa). In the recent past, many proteins were identified that are targeted to more than one compartment CITATION . In order to test whether AtWhy1 or AtWhy2 might be dually targeted to their respective organelles (see CITATION ) as well as to the nucleus, their coding regions were fused to the gfp gene and put under the control of the 35S CaMV-promoter (see Section CITATION ). Isolated protoplasts from potato leaves were transformed with these constructs by PEG-mediated transformation. In protoplasts expressing the AtWhy1-GFP fusion protein, the green fluorescence of the GFP clearly co-localised with the red autofluorescence of the chlorophyll ( CITATION A), demonstrating that this protein was efficiently targeted to the chloroplasts. Within the chloroplasts, GFP-fluorescence was not equally distributed but appeared in speckles. DAPI staining of the DNA in these protoplasts confirmed that there is no indication for a translocation of AtWhy1-GFP into the nucleus ( CITATION B). In protoplasts expressing the AtWhy2-GFP fusion protein, GFP-fluorescence was observed in small spots that did not overlap with chlorophyll fluorescence but, instead, resembled the pattern obtained with a control construct containing the import sequence of mitochondrial CoxIV fused to GFP CITATION (data not shown). Parallel staining of mitochondria with a specific dye, MitoTracker Orange (Molecular Probes) revealed a co-localisation with AtWhy2-GFP ( CITATION C), thus confirming that this protein is targeted into the mitochondria. An AtWhy3-GFP construct was observed exclusively inside the chloroplasts ( CITATION A). In order to ensure that the procedure of protoplast isolation did not affect the localisation of the Whirly proteins and to additionally examine their localisation in a different, non-photosynthetic cell type, transformations of onion epidermal cells by particle bombardment were performed with the same GFP fusion constructs. The results obtained with this approach were in accordance with those obtained with potato protoplasts. The green fluorescence emitted from the AtWhy1-GFP and AtWhy3-GFP fusion proteins was observed in leucoplasts which, despite being smaller in size than the chloroplasts of the potato protoplasts, can be clearly identified by their tube-like protrusions, known as stromules CITATION , which have been previously described for this type of plastids CITATION ( CITATION ). The distribution of AtWhy2 in onion epidermal cells, in contrast, again resembled that of a mitochondrial control protein, CoxIV (data not shown). None of the fusion proteins was observed in the nuclei of onion epidermal cells ( CITATION ). In order to obtain information on the distribution and relatedness of Whirly proteins we performed BLAST searches CITATION of AtWhy1, AtWhy2 and AtWhy3 proteins against translated sequences of the plant EST databases. Proteins with a high degree of sequence conservation with AtWhy1 and AtWhy2 could be thus identified in many dicotyledonous and monocotyledonous species. However, no specific homologues of AtWhy3 were found. Many of the plant species, including potato ( Solanum tuberosum ), contain homologues for both proteins. We performed predictions of the localisation of Why-like protein pairs from seven different plant species with PSORT and TargetP. This analysis revealed that in each case one protein seems to be targeted to the chloroplast while the other protein contains a putative mitochondrial transit peptide. A phylogenetic tree constructed using the neighbor-joining method CITATION showed that with the exception of AtWhy3 all sequences cluster in two groups ( CITATION ). One cluster comprises all Why1-like proteins predicted to be targeted to the chloroplasts while the other group consists of the putative mitochondrial homologues ( CITATION ). To avoid an influence of the putative signal peptides on the result of this analysis, the target peptides as predicted by TargetP CITATION were removed prior to the sequence comparisons so that the tree represents only the relatedness of the putative mature proteins. The three monocotyledonous plants included in this analysis, Hordeum vulgare (Hv), Triticum aestivum (Ta) and Oryza sativa (Os), share a high degree of identity among each other, thus forming a distinct subgroup within each cluster ( CITATION ). AtWhy3, although containing a potential N-terminal signal peptide for chloroplast import, shows no extensive homology with the putative plastid Why1-like proteins.
!~MM~! For the prediction of chloroplast and mitochondrial transit peptides and the corresponding cleavage sites, the programs TargetP V1.0 CITATION , PSORT and iPSORT CITATION were employed. Homologues of potato p24 and the Arabidopsis Why proteins from other plant species were identified using the BLAST program CITATION . For the alignment of multiple protein sequences, the predicted target peptides were removed and an alignment of the corresponding mature proteins was performed using the programs ClustalW CITATION and DNasis (Version 2.50 for Windows, Hitachi Software Engineering Co., Yokohama, Japan). TreeView (Version 1.5.2) was employed to create an unrooted phylogenetic tree. The cDNA sequences of why1 and why2 from A. thaliana were cloned in a vector behind the promoter of T3 phage RNA polymerase. In the case of why1 , which does not contain any methionine residues in the predicted mature protein, the oligonucleotide 5′ATGTCCATGTCCATGTCCTGA3′ coding for six alternating methionine/serine residues (MSMSMS) followed by a stop codon was cloned in frame behind the coding sequence. The plasmids were used for coupled in vitro transcription/translation using a kit (TnT coupled reticulocyte lysate systems, Promega) and 35 S methionine as labelled amino acid according to the manufacturer’s instructions. In vitro translated, radioactively labelled precursor proteins were incubated with isolated pea chloroplasts for 20 min as described CITATION . Import reactions with isolated pea mitochondria were performed essentially according to CITATION . Upon termination of each import reaction, the organelles were recovered by centrifugation, resuspended and divided into two equal fractions that were incubated on ice for 30 min in the presence or absence, respectively, of the protease thermolysin. Subsequently, the organelles were reisolated from both assays on percoll cushions and subjected to denaturing gel electrophoresis in a 13% (w/v) polyacrylamide gel. The Atwhy1 sequence was amplified by PCR using the cDNA U10139 (Riken clone) and primers P1 (TG CTGCAG ATGTCGCAACTCTTATCG) and P2 (AC CTGCAG ATTCCATTCATAGTCTCC) engineered to contain a Pst I recognition site (underlined nucleotides). Likewise, the sequence of Atwhy2 was amplified from Riken clone U19840 using primers P3 (AC CTGCAG ATGATGAAGCAAGCC) and P4 (AC CTGCAG TTTATCCCACTCC). In case of AtWhy3 , a fragment including the first exon and 57 bp of the 5′-UTR was amplified from genomic DNA with the primer pair P5 (AG CTGCAG TCATCGTAATCCCGC) and P6 (GG CTGCAG GTTTTGCGAAGAAG ACG). All PCR products were digested with Pst I and inserted in-frame with the gfp coding sequence into the vector ‘35S-GFP bluescript SK’ (Stratagene). This vector contains a gfp-nos fragment (originating from the vector pUhGFPC3-N, Clontech) which was inserted into the Pst I and Eco RI sites. For constitutive expression, the 35S CaMV promoter was cloned into the Sma I site upstream of the why and gfp sequences. Protoplasts were isolated from 4 weeks old leaves of potato (Baltica 809) essentially following the protocol of CITATION . PEG-mediated transformations of protoplasts with the recombinant plasmids were performed according to CITATION . The protoplasts were incubated for 24 h in the dark at 23 °C before GFP fluorescence was analysed. For mitochondial co-localisation experiments, the protoplasts were incubated with a final concentration of 100 nM MitoTrackerOrange (Molecular Probes) for 30 min in the dark before analysing the fluorescence. Inner onion peels were placed under sterile conditions on agar plates (1.2% w/v) containing 0.5 × MS medium (pH 5.7) (Duchefa). Biolistic bombardments were performed with a PDS-1000/He instrument (Bio-Rad). Acceleration of gold particles (1.5–3.0 μm) coated with 1 μg of recombinant plasmid DNA was used to transform onion epidermal cells under a vacuum of 27 inches. Hg and a helium pressure of 1100 psi. The plates containing the bombarded tissue were incubated for 12–24 h in the dark at 20–24 °C. The samples were illuminated with an argon laser (488 nm wavelength for detection of GFP fluorescence, 554 nm for mitotracker fluorescence and 458 nm for chlorophyll autofluorescence, respectively) using a confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica TCS SP1).
