!~ABS~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ethylene-responsive element binding protein (AtEBP) gene was isolated as a suppressor of Bax-induced cell death by functional screening in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). To further examine the cell death suppressive action of AtEBP in plant cells, we established transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants overexpressing AtEBP as well as transgenic tobacco plants ectopically expressing mouse Bax protein under a dexamethasone-inducible promoter. We prepared the crosses of the selective lines of each transgenic plant, which were evaluated in terms of cell death suppression activity. Results indicate that AtEBP suppressed Bax-induced cell death in tobacco plants, an action also associated with a lowered level of ion leakage. Furthermore, tobacco Bright Yellow-2 cells overexpressing AtEBP conferred resistance to hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and heat treatments. AtEBP protein localized in the nucleus and functioned as an in vivo transcription activator as confirmed in transient assays and experiments using stable transgenic system. Up-regulation of defense genes was observed in transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing AtEBP. Based on the analysis of mRNA accumulation in ethylene-related mutants, the position of AtEBP in signaling pathway is presented.
!~RES~! AtEBP gene was previously isolated as a suppressor of Bax-induced cell death by functional screening in yeast (CITATION). To confirm that AtEBP suppresses cell death in plant cells, we established transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants expressing AtEBP and ectopically expressing Bax using a dexamethasone (DEX)-inducible system (CITATION; Fig. 1A). We generated five independent transgenic tobacco plants expressing AtEBP under cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter, followed by northern-blot analysis using AtEBP cDNA as a probe (data not shown). We selected two lines (EBP8 and EBP20) for the following experiments. We also generated about 20 independent transgenic tobacco plants ectopically expressing Bax. When transgenic Bax plants (2-week-old) were transferred to a medium containing 10 μm DEX, extensive etiolation at the whole-plant level was observed at 4 d after DEX treatment (Fig. 1B). One of these lines, namely Bax21, showed Bax expression immunologically at 6 h after DEX treatment (Fig. 1C). We also selected this line for the following cross experiment. [[FIGURE]] To evaluate whether AtEBP suppresses Bax-induced cell death in plants, we prepared a hybrid line by crossing these transgenic tobacco plants expressing AtEBP (EBP20) with plants ectopically expressing Bax (Bax21). Only F1 hybrid plants were used in the following experiments. Constitutive expression of AtEBP and DEX-induced expression of Bax in the hybrid line were confirmed by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR (Fig. 1D, a). Furthermore, the expression of Bax protein in the hybrid line was also detected immunologically (Fig. 1D, b). Although an apparent chlorosis of leaves in the parent line was seen at 4 d after DEX treatment, leaves of the hybrid line retained green color (Fig. 1E). To quantitatively evaluate cell death, ion leakage from leaf discs was measured. Ion leakage has been used as an indicator of plant cell death (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The level of electrolyte leakage of each transgenic line was increased after DEX treatment, but the hybrid line showed lower levels of ion leakage compared with the parent line (Fig. 1F). We already reported that production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) production was involved in cell death triggered by overexpression of Bax in Arabidopsis plants (CITATION). To test whether or not AtEBP expression affects ROS production by Bax, these transgenic tobacco lines (Bax21 and Bax21 × EBP20) and nontransgenic tobacco (SR1) were treated with 1 μm DEX for 7 h and the leaves were stained with nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) and 3, 3′-diaminobenzidine (DAB) for the detection of superoxide (O2−) and H2O2, respectively. As shown in Figure 1G, subcellular localizations of O2− and H2O2 were observed in tobacco plant cells expressing Bax despite AtEBP expression. NBT and DAB failed to stain nontransgenic tobacco plant cells. We established tobacco Bright Yellow-2 (BY-2) cells overexpressing AtEBP by the Agrobacterium-mediated method (CITATION). AtEBP expression was detected only in the cell lines transformed with a vector possessing AtEBP (Fig. 2A). [[FIGURE]] Using such cell lines, we evaluated H2O2-induced cell death. Ten-day-old cells were transferred to a fresh medium and then treated with H2O2 (0, 2, and 5 mm) for 4 h. The extent of cell death was determined by selective staining of dead cells with Evans blue by measurement of A600 (Fig. 2B). Compared with the control lines (C1 and C2), repression of cell death in the transgenic lines (T1 and T2) was apparent at 2 and 5 mm H2O2. A brief heat treatment of suspension-cultured cells has also previously been demonstrated to induce cell death evident by apoptotic phenotype such as cell shrinkage and DNA laddering (CITATION; CITATION). We also investigated the resistance to heat stress using the same transgenic lines. Namely, 10-d-old cells were incubated at 55°C for 2 h and kept for 12 h at 27°C and shrunken cells were counted under a microscope (Fig. 2C). The control lines showed 50% to 80% of shrunken cells, whereas the transgenic lines showed only 30% to 40% of shrunken cells. A putative nuclear localization signal was found in front of the AP2/EREBP domain of AtEBP protein. We previously reported that the nuclear localization of AtEBP was essential for the cell death suppression activity in yeast cells (CITATION). To clarify the localization of AtEBP in plant cells, a plasmid possessing green fluorescence protein (GFP) gene fused to AtEBP under CaMV 35S promoter was constructed, which was then bombarded to the epidermal cells of onion (Allium cepa). As shown in Figure 3A, the fluorescence of GFP-AtEBP was localized exclusively in the nucleus, whereas the fluorescence of GFP alone was observed in the whole cell. [[FIGURE]] To characterize AtEBP in terms of transcriptional activity, we performed a transient expression assay using a GAL4-responsive reporter system. The reporter construct contained Luciferase (LUC) under five copies of the GAL4-binding sites and TATA region of CaMV 35S promoter. The effecter construct contained the DNA-binding domain of yeast GAL4 protein fused to full length of AtEBP driven by CaMV 35S promoter (Fig. 3B). Bombardment of plasmids into Arabidopsis leaves augmented LUC activity, and the activity was further augmented with increased addition of the effecter plasmids (Fig. 3C). Next we established a genetic system in order to determine whether AtEBP controls transcription through GCC-box in the promoter of target genes. We previously obtained three transgenic tobacco lines (NsERF2 pro-GUS, NsERF3 pro-GUS, and NsERF4 pro-GUS) possessing β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene fused with the promoters of NsERF2/3/4 from Nicotiana sylvestris, respectively (CITATION). The promoter of NsERF3 contains two GCC-box sequences and that of NsERF2 contains a putative binding sequence of EIN3/TEIL (CITATION), but that of NsERF4 does not contain any known binding site related to the ethylene signaling (Fig. 4A). We also generated transgenic tobacco plants expressing AtEBP under CaMV 35S promoter. [[FIGURE]] To obtain hybrid plants, transgenic tobacco line expressing AtEBP (EBP8) and NsERF2/3/4 pro-GUS lines were crossed to each other. AtEBP expression in the hybrid plants (F1) was confirmed by RT-PCR (Fig. 4B). Accordingly, we measured GUS activities in these hybrid lines. The results indicated that the hybrid line (NsERF3 pro-GUS × EBP8) containing the GCC-box in the promoter and expressing AtEBP, showed enhanced GUS activity compared with the control line (NsERF3 pro-GUS × SR1; Fig. 4C). In contrast, despite AtEBP expression, the other hybrid lines (NsERF2/4 pro-GUS × EBP8) lacking GCC-box in the promoter did not show any change of GUS activity compared with the control lines (NsERF2/4 pro-GUS × SR1). These results suggest that AtEBP functions as a transcriptional activator through the GCC-box in plant cells. In order to identify the genes that are regulated by AtEBP in plant cells, several transgenic Arabidopsis lines overexpressing AtEBP under CaMV 35S promoter were established. Using such lines, we investigated the expression of defense genes including pathogenesis-related (PR) genes. As shown in Figure 5, expressions of PDF1.2, a plant defensin gene (CITATION), and GST6 (CITATION), which is related to ROS detoxification, were increased in Arabidopsis lines overexpressing AtEBP. On the other hand, the expressions of PR-1/2/3 in Arabidopsis lines overexpressing AtEBP were not different from the control line. The data were obtained as replicates with the same results. [[FIGURE]] Many isolated ethylene-related mutants have been analyzed for their epistasis relationships, and the framework of the ethylene signaling pathway is almost established (for review, see CITATION; CITATION). Nevertheless, the precise positions of over 100 ERF genes, including AtEBP in the ethylene signaling pathway, have not been identified, except for ERF1 (CITATION). To clarify the position of AtEBP in the ethylene signaling pathway, we analyzed mRNA accumulation in ethylene-related mutants such as ethylene-insensitive mutants (ethylene resistant 1-1 [etr1-1], ethylene insensitive 2-1 [ein2-1], and ethylene insensitive 3-1 [ein3-1]), a constitutive active mutant in the ethylene signal transduction (constitutive triple response 1-1 [ctr1-1]), and an ethylene overproducing mutant (ethylene overproducer 3-1 [eto3-1]). As shown in Figure 6, the level of AtEBP mRNA was lower in ein2-1 but higher in ctr1-1 and equal in etr1-1, ein3-1, and eto3-1 than in wild type. ERF1 mRNA was detected only in ctr1-1. Same results of the data were obtained in the separate experiments. Thus, AtEBP may be located downstream of EIN2 and CTR1, but not under EIN3. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Columbia ecotype of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) cv Petit Havana SR1 and cv Samsun NN were used. All plants were cultivated in growth chambers at 23°C (Arabidopsis) and 27°C (tobacco) under continuous light. The ethylene-related mutants, etr1-1, ein2-1, ein3-1, and eto3-1, were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Columbus, OH). Suspension-cultured cells of tobacco BY-2 were cultured weekly in liquid CITATION medium supplemented with Suc (30 g/L), KH2PO4 (200 mg/L), thiamine hydrochloride (1 mg/L), and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (0.2 mg/L) as described previously (CITATION). To induce cell death by H2O2, 10-d-old tobacco BY-2 cells were treated with H2O2 (0, 2, and 5 mm) and cultured under continuous shaking at 27°C for 4 h. The viability of BY-2 cells was measured by the addition of 0.05% Evans blue (Nakalai, Kyoto) for 15 min, followed by extensive wash with distilled water to remove unbound dye. Dye bound to dead cells was solubilized with 50% methanol and 1% SDS for 30 min at 50°C, and quantified by A600. To induce cell death by heat treatment, 10-d-old tobacco BY-2 cells were treated with 55°C for 2 h and returned to 27°C for 12 h. The percentage of shrunken cells was calculated by observations of the cells under a microscope with cytoplasmic shrinkage. The open reading frame of AtEBP was inserted into plasmids, pBIN (CaMV 35S) and pBIG (CaMV 35S-Ω), and the open reading frame of mouse Bax was inserted into the DEX-inducible vector pTA7002 as described previously (CITATION). The resulting plasmid, pBIN-AtEBP, was transformed into Arabidopsis plants (CITATION) and tobacco BY-2 cells (CITATION) by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The plasmids, pBIG-AtEBP and pTA-Bax, were transformed into tobacco cv Petite Havana SR1 as described by CITATION. Transgenic tobacco (cv Samsun NN) plants, NsERF2 pro-GUS, NsERF3 pro-GUS, and NsERF4 pro-GUS (CITATION) were also used. Plant tissues were homogenized with liquid nitrogen in the extraction buffer (200 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 10 mm EDTA, 100 mm NaCl, 0.1% SDS, and 0.1% mercapthoethanol). Total RNAs (10 μg) were fractionated on 1.2% agarose gel containing 5% formaldehyde, and transferred to a nylon membrane (Biodyne B, Pall, Washington, NY). The 32P-labeled probes, the 3′-untranslated region (UTR) were used for PR-1 (CITATION), PR-2 (CITATION), PR-3 (CITATION), PDF1.2 (CITATION), and GST6 (CITATION). The full-length coding region was used for AtEBP in the experiments using BY-2 cells, shown in Figure 2A, and tobacco plants, and the coding region of AtEBP (CITATION), except for AP2/EREBP domain, was used for the other experiments using Arabidopsis plants. Hybridization was performed in 10% dextran sulfate solution containing 1 m NaCl, 1% SDS, and 10 μg/mL heat-denatured salmon sperm DNA at 65°C for overnight. Washing was performed with 2× SSC for 10 min, with 1× SSC with 0.1% SDS at 65°C for 30 min, and with 0.1× SSC with 0.1% SDS at 65°C for 30 min. The membranes were analyzed by a BAS1500 imaging plate scanner (Fuji Photo Film, Tokyo). Plant tissues were homogenized in the extraction buffer (50 mm HEPES, pH 8.0, 2 mm EDTA, 330 mm sorbitol, and 0.8% mercaptoethanol). Total proteins (20 μg per lane) separated by SDS-15% PAGE were transferred onto a polyvinylidene fluoride membrane (Milipore, Belford, MA). After blocking with phosphate-buffered saline buffer (137 mm NaCl, 8.10 mm Na2HPO4, 2.68 mm KCl, and 1.47 mm KH2PO4) containing 5% skim milk for overnight at 4°C. The membranes were treated with a polyclonal antibody for Bax (09–499, Upstate Biotechnology, Lake Placid, NY), followed by treatment with horseradish peroxidase-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG (1:2,000 dilution; Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Piscataway, NJ). Detection was accomplished by an enhanced chemiluminescence kit (Amersham Pharmacia) with exposure to x-ray film (Fuji Photo Film). Three leaf discs from 2-week-old tobacco plants were floated on 2 mL water with different concentrations (0, 0.1, and 1.0 μm) of DEX. Following incubation at 27°C, the conductivity of the bathing solution was measured with an electrical conductivity meter (B-173, Hitachi, Tokyo). Histochemical detection of O2− and H2O2 was performed by treating leaves with NBT, as described by CITATION, and with DAB, as described by CITATION. At 7 h after treatment with 1 μm DEX, leaves detached from seedlings were used. For NBT staining, samples were vacuum infiltrated with 10 mm NaN3 in 10 mm potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.8, for 2 min, and incubated in 0.1% NBT in 10 mm potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.8, for 30 min at room temperature. For DAB staining, samples were incubated with 0.1% DAB in 10 mm potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.8 for 6 h. These stained samples were cleared by boiling in acetic acid:glycerol:ethanol (1:3:3, [v/v/v]) solution before photographs were taken. To express GFP-AtEBP fusion protein in plant cells, AtEBP was inserted into the GFP cassette vector, pUC18-35S-GFP (CITATION) at the downstream of GFP in frame. The resulting plasmid (35S-GFP-AtEBP, 0.8 μg) was transfected into the onion epidermis with the bombardment method by described by CITATION. After 24 h of incubation, GFP fluorescence was observed using a fluorescence microscopy with a filter set providing 455 to 490 nm excitation and emission above 515 nm. In cotransfection assays, the reporter plasmid (1.6 μg) and the effecter plasmid (1.2 μg) were bombarded into Arabidopsis leaves in each experiment. The pUC18 was used to adjust the total amount of bombarded DNA. LUC assay was performed with the Dual-Luciferase Reporter Assay System and a luminescence reader (TD-20/20; Promega, Madison, WI). To normalize values after each transfection, 0.4 μg of the plasmid pPTRL, which included LUC from Renilla under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter, was used as an internal control (CITATION; CITATION). Normalized LUC activity recorded after transfection with the reporter plasmid alone was set arbitrarily at 1. GUS assay was performed by using the substrate, 4-methylumbelliferyl-β-d-glucuronide (CITATION). Briefly, leaves were homogenized in the extraction buffer (50 mm phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, 10 mm EDTA, 0.1% Triton X-100, 0.1% sarcosyl, and 10 mm mercapthoethanol). After the crude solution was incubated with 4-methylumbelliferyl-β-d-glucuronide at 37°C for 30 min, the reaction was stopped by the addition of Na2CO3 solution. The amount of 4-methylumbelliferone, the resulting product, was measured with a fluorescence spectrophotometer (F4500, Hitachi) with excitation at 365 nm and emission at 455 nm. Upon request, all novel materials described in this publication will be made available in a timely manner for noncommercial research purposes, subject to the requisite permission from any third-party owners of all or parts of the material. Obtaining any permission will be the responsibility of the requestor.
