!~ABS~! Calmodulin (CaM), a key Ca2+ sensor in eukaryotes, regulates diverse cellular processes by interacting with many proteins. To identify Ca2+/CaM-mediated signaling components, we screened an Arabidopsis expression library with horseradish peroxidase-conjugated Arabidopsis calmodulin2 (AtCaM2) and isolated a homolog of the UBP6 deubiquitinating enzyme family (AtUBP6) containing a Ca2+-dependent CaM-binding domain (CaMBD). The CaM-binding activity of the AtUBP6 CaMBD was confirmed by CaM mobility shift assay, phosphodiesterase competition assay and site-directed mutagenesis. Furthermore, expression of AtUBP6 restored canavanine resistance to the Δubp6 yeast mutant. This is the first demonstration that Ca2+ signaling via CaM is involved in ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation and/or stabilization in plants.
!~RES~! To identify molecular components of Ca2+/CaM-mediated signaling pathways, we screened an Arabidopsis cDNA expression library using HRP-conjugated AtCaM2 as a probe CITATION. Fifty positive clones were obtained from about 5×105 recombinant phages. cDNA sequencing of the clones and comparisons to known sequences in GenBank™ revealed that they included several known plant CaMBPs CITATION, some previously unknown function of CaMBPs and several novel CaMBPs. Among the novel CaMBP clones, we identified two cDNA clones that encode a full-length UBP, which had previously been suggested to be AtUBP6 (AF302660) CITATION. Like most other UBPs, AtUBP6 contains the conserved Cys- and His-boxes that are essential for their activity (CITATION ) and the Q, G, L and F domains that are of unknown function CITATION. AtUBP6 also contains an UBL domain that functions as an N-terminal regulatory domain in other UBP6 family members specifically yeast UBP6 and human USP14 (CITATIONA and B) CITATION. Interestingly, a putative CaMBD and its hydrophobic residues of AtUBP6 were conserved in UBP6 family DUBs in Arabidopsis, yeast and human (CITATIONC). These results suggest that AtUBP6 is a member of the UBP6 DUB family and may be the functional homolog of yeast UBP6 and/or mammalian USP14. Based on the structural characteristics of known CaMBDs, a putative CaMBD was predicted to reside between the Cys- and His-boxes of AtUBP6. To confirm and map this CaMBD, full-length AtUBP6 (D0) and eight truncated proteins (D1–D8) were expressed in Escherichia coli as glutathione S-transferase (GST)-fusion proteins and a CaM-overlay assay was performed (CITATION ). Five recombinant proteins (D0–D3 and D7) containing the putative CaMBD interacted with CaM::HRP in a Ca2+-dependent manner, whereas GST and four proteins lacking this region (D4–D6 and D8) did not (CITATIONB). These results demonstrated that CaM binds to the predicted AtUBP6 CaMBD in a Ca2+-dependent manner. While the CaM-binding sequence of the AtUBP6 CaMBD (172Ser to 191Gly) does not constitute a classical CaM-binding motif CITATION, it does form a basic, amphiphilic helical structure whose hydrophobic residues are segregated from hydrophilic residues along the helix (CITATION ). Thus, to further confirm that CaM binds to the 20-amino acid stretch from 172Ser to 191Gly of AtUBP6, a peptide corresponding to this region was synthesized and used for a CaM mobility shift assay under non-denaturing conditions CITATION. As predicted, the intensity of a higher molecular mass band, representing the peptide-CaM complex, was enhanced with increasing concentrations of the synthetic peptide in the presence of Ca2+, whereas this higher molecular weight complex was undetectable when EGTA was substituted for Ca2+ (CITATIONB). We further analyzed the binding of the synthetic peptide to CaM by performing a competition assay with PDE, a known Ca2+/CaM-dependent enzyme. To determine K d values of the peptide for the activation of PDE by CaM, PDE activation was monitored either in the presence (100nM) or absence of the peptide with increasing doses of CaM. The activation curves shifted to the right in the presence of the peptide, indicating that competition had occurred between PDE and the peptide for binding to CaM (CITATIONC). The concentrations of AtCaM2 needed to achieve half-maximal activation of PDE activity in the absence and presence of the 20-mer peptide were 11.2 and 72.1nM, respectively, representing a 6.4-fold difference. The K d value of the peptide for activation of PDE by AtCaM2 was determined to be 7.2nM. These results show that the 20-mer peptide, representing residues 172Ser to 191Gly of AtUBP6, is sufficient for Ca2+-dependent CaM-binding. To identify the critical residues of the CaMBD in AtUBP6, we used site-directed mutagenesis to introduce single amino acid substitutions into the GST-fused AtUBP6 (D0). Within CaMBD, hydrophobic residues important for CaM-binding were separately replaced with Arg or Lys and denoted F174R, W175R, L178K, F185R and L188K, respectively (CITATION ). To determine the CaM-binding of these mutants, they were subjected to a CaM-overlay assay. This revealed that the W175R and L178K amino acid substitutions completely abolished the Ca2+-dependent CaM-binding ability of AtUBP6, while the F174R, F185R and L188K substitutions were without effect (CITATIONB). Thus, 175W and 178L are key residues in the interaction of CaM with AtUBP6. To assess the enzymatic activity and substrate specificity of AtUBP6, UBP activity assays were performed using AtUBQ1, AtUBQ10, Ub–X-β-galactosidase (X=M or R) and Lys48-linked poly-Ub chains in vitro and in vivo in E. coli. However, it was not possible to demonstrate the activity of AtUBP6 using this approach (data not shown). Given that AtUBP6 exhibits significant sequence similarity to UBP6 enzymes and contains domains that are conserved within UBP6 family members, we changed our approach and attempted to complement a yeast Δubp6 strain with AtUBP6. To achieve this, cDNA for either wild-type AtUBP6 or an inactive mutant, AtUBP6C113S, in which the active site 113Cys residue was changed to Ser, was introduced into the mutant yeast. Both forms of AtUBP6 were individually expressed in wild-type and Δubp6 cells using the constitutive yeast expression vector pYX and tested for growth sensitivity to several different concentrations of canavanine in liquid S.D. media (CITATION ), and afterwards on selected plates (CITATIONB). The stable expressions of UBPs were verified by fluorescence microscope as GFP-fusion proteins (data not shown). Wild-type and Δubp6 cells expressing AtUBP6 could grow at canavanine concentrations in excess of 5μM, but Δubp6 cells with the vector or expressing the AtUBP6 inactive mutant could not. Thus, growth of the Δubp6 yeast cells was restored by expressing AtUBP6, but not by expressing the AtUBP6C113S construct or an empty vector (CITATION) CITATION. These results suggest that AtUBP6 possesses UBP function and may be the functional homolog of yeast UBP6 in Arabidopsis.
!~MM~! To isolate CaMBPs, horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated Arabidopsis calmodulin2 (AtCaM2) was used as a probe to screen an Arabidopsis cDNA expression library CITATION. To map the CaM-binding domain (CaMBD) of AtUBP6, nine variant constructs (D0; 1M–482M, D1; 1M–373K, D2; 1M–296L, D3; 1M–202W, D4; 1M–105G, D5; 105G–136S, D6; 136S–169V, D7; 169V–202W and D8; 202W–482M) were prepared in a pGEX-2T vector with BamHI and SmaI. To identify the critical residue(s) in the interactions between CaM and AtUBP6, we introduced several point mutations into the GST::AtUBP6 (D0) clones as described CITATION. The resulting crude recombinant proteins (1–5μg) were assayed for CaM-binding ability as described CITATION. A peptide (172-SQFWMVLRKKYPQFSQLQNG-191) corresponding to a stretch of 20-amino acids in the CaMBD of AtUBP6 was synthesized commercially (Peptron, Korea). A CaM mobility shift assay was performed with 303pmol AtCaM2 and increasing concentrations of this peptide in the presence or absence of Ca2+, as described previously CITATION. Cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) assays were performed in an initial 500μl reaction volume with increasing concentrations of AtCaM2 (1–200nM) in the presence (100nM) or absence of peptide, as described CITATION. The dissociation constant (K d) of AtCaM2 for the peptide was calculated in either the presence (100nM) or absence of peptide, as described CITATION. The yeast strains BY4741 wild-type and Δubp6 (Mat a; his3Δ1; leu2Δ0; met15Δ0; ura3Δ0; YFR010w::kanMX4) were obtained from Euroscarf (Frankfurt, Germany) and transformed with the vector pYX (Novagen) harboring AtUBP6 or AtUBP6C113S. Canavanine sensitivity assays were performed essentially as described CITATION with modifications. Transformed cells normalized by optical density were harvested and resuspended in the S.D. medium without arginine. To test for canavanine sensitivity, resuspended cells were incubated in liquid medium containing several different concentrations of canavanine without arginine and their optical densities were measured at A600nm after a 48–60-h incubation at 30°C. To further confirm the results obtained, 10-fold serial dilutions were spotted onto the S.D. plates lacking arginine with or without 5μM canavanine and incubated for 3–5 days at 30°C.
