!~ABS~! Each photosynthetic complex within the thylakoid membrane consists of several different subunits. During formation of these complexes, numerous regulatory factors are required for the coordinated transport and assembly of the subunits. Interactions between transport/assembly factors and their specific polypeptides occur in a membraneous environment and are usually transient and short-lived. Thus, a detailed analysis of the underlying molecular mechanisms by biochemical techniques is often difficult to perform. Here, we report on the suitability of a genetic system, i.e. the yeast split-ubiquitin system, to investigate protein–protein interactions of thylakoid membrane proteins. The data confirm the previously established binding of the cpSec-translocase subunits, cpSecY and cpSecE, and the interaction of the cpSec-translocase from Arabidopsis thaliana with Alb3, a factor required for the insertion of the light-harvesting chlorophyll-binding proteins into the thylakoid membrane. In addition, the proposed interaction between D1, the reaction center protein of photosystem II and the soluble periplasmic PratA factor from Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 was verified. A more comprehensive analysis of Alb3-interacting proteins revealed that Alb3 is able to form dimers or oligomers. Interestingly, Alb3 was also shown to bind to the PSII proteins D1, D2 and CP43, to the PSI reaction center protein PSI-A and the ATP synthase subunit CF0III, suggesting an important role of Alb3 in the assembly of photosynthetic thylakoid membrane complexes.
!~RES~! The cpSec-translocase consists of the known integral thylakoid membrane proteins cpSecE and cpSecY. CpSecE spans the thylakoid membrane once, whereas cpSecY contains ten transmembrane helices. The subunits are known to form a stable complex that is involved in the translocation of proteins across the thylakoid membrane (Schuenemann et al. CITATION). To test whether the split-ubiquitin system is suitable for investigating interactions between thylakoid membrane proteins, cpSecY was cloned into the vector pTMBV4 to generate the fusion protein cpSecY-Cub-TF, and cpSecE was cloned into the vector pADSL-Nx to generate the fusion protein NubG-cpSecE. The S. cerevisiae strain DSY-1 carrying the lacZ and HIS3 reporter genes was co-transformed with both plasmids and plated onto medium lacking histidine (−His). After 3 days of incubation, a strong growth of yeast cells together with high β-galactosidase levels was observed, indicating a stable interaction of cpSecY and cpSecE in the yeast cells (Fig. 1a, Table 2). Activation of HIS3 and lacZ was also present in cells co-expressing cpSecY-Cub-TF and the Alg5-NubI construct. The latter is a fusion of the resident yeast ER protein Alg5 with wild-type Nub and served as a positive control. This result confirms that cpSecY-Cub-TF is expressed in these cells, and that its reporter moiety Cub-TF is properly positioned at the cytosolic side of the membrane. In contrast, expression of the negative control combinations cpSecY-Cub-TF together with Alg5-NubG, or NubG-cpSecE together with Alg5-Cub-TF, did not lead to an activation of the reporter genes (Fig. 1a, Table 2). To gather further evidence that cpSecY-Cub-TF is suitable to be used as a bait protein in the split-ubiquitin system, Western blot experiments using anti-LexA antibodies and protein extracts of yeast cells expressing cpSecY-Cub-TF were performed. A single protein with an apparent molecular mass of 82 kD was detected in the membrane fraction of these yeast cells (Fig. 2a). No cross reaction occurred with the cytosolic extract (Fig. 2a) nor with protein samples from non-transformed yeast cells (data not shown). These results prove that full-length cpSecY-Cub-TF is exclusively situated in the membrane fraction of these yeast cells. Likewise, the presence of full-length NubG-cpSecE (20 kD) in the membrane fraction of transformed yeast cells was confirmed using anti-HA antibodies (Fig. 2b). [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] [[FIGURE]]  [[TABLE]] To determine the part of cpSecE, which mediates the interaction with cpSecY, constructs encoding the N-terminal stromal part of mature cpSecE (cpSecE41–133) and constructs encoding the transmembrane helix together with the short C-terminal part of the protein (cpSecE122–177) were generated, and the interaction with cpSecY was tested. The construct cpSecE122–177 interacted as strongly with cpSecY as full-length cpSecE, whereas no interaction occurred with cpSecE41–133 (Fig. 1a, Table 2). To exclude a false-negative result, effective expression of cpSecE41–133 was confirmed by Western blot analysis of total-cell extracts using anti-HA antibodies (Fig. 2b). It has previously been demonstrated that Alb3 is at least partially associated with the cpSec-translocase (Klostermann et al. CITATION). To test whether the split-ubiquitin system can be used to characterise the nature of this interaction in more detail, the interaction of cpSecY-Cub-TF with NubG-Alb3 was analysed. As shown in Table 2 and Fig. 1a, strong binding between these proteins was observed. Interestingly, removal of the C-terminus of Alb3 (construct Alb357–350) led to a complete loss of binding to cpSecY, suggesting that this region of Alb3 is crucial for its interaction with cpSecY. To confirm the binding between Alb3 and cpSecY, Alb3 was cloned as bait in the vector pAMBV4 to generate Alb3-Cub-TF. The induction of the reporter genes in cells expressing Alb3-Cub-TF and Alg5-NubI and the lack of reporter gene activation in cells expressing Alb3-Cub-TF together with Alg5-NubG proved that the Alb3-Cub-TF construct was able to serve as bait (Fig. 1b, Table 2). The expression of full-length Alb3-Cub-TF in the membrane fraction of yeast cells transformed with pAMBV4-Alb3 was confirmed by Western blot (Fig. 2a). As expected, co-expression of Alb3-Cub-TF and NubG-cpSecY resulted in strong induction of the reporter genes. However, binding of Alb3 to the cpSec-translocase seems not to be mediated exclusively by the interaction with cpSecY, because an interaction was also observed between Alb3-Cub-TF and NubG-cpSecE (Fig. 1b, Table 2). As shown in Fig. 1b and Table 2, Alb3-Cub-TF is also able to interact with NubG-Alb3, suggesting that Alb3 is able to form dimers or oligomers. In contrast to the complex formation with cpSecY, the C-terminus of Alb3 is not essential for oligomerization, because binding of Alb3-Cub-TF to NubG- Alb357–350 was observed in the split-ubiquitin system (Fig. 1b, Table 2). Recently, it has been shown that Alb3 is involved in assembly of D1 in PSII from C. reinhardtii and co-immunoprecipitation experiments indicated that there is direct contact between Alb3 and D1 (Ossenbühl et al. CITATION). Therefore, we wanted to test whether a direct interaction between Alb3 and D1 from A. thaliana can be observed in the split-ubiquitin system. Combining Alb3-Cub-TF and NubG-D1 resulted in a strong activation of HIS3 and lacZ as shown in Table 3. We were also able to demonstrate that Alb3 interacts with other chloroplast-encoded subunits of PSII like D2 and CP43 (Table 3). In addition, binding of Alb3 to the PSI reaction center protein PSI-A and the ATP synthase subunit CF0III was observed (Table 3). Taken together, these results confirm the important function of Alb3 in PSII assembly, and suggest that Alb3 might play a general role in the biogenesis of chloroplast-encoded thylakoid membrane proteins. [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] Alb3 is also required for the post-translational cpSRP-dependent insertion of Lhcb1 into the thylakoid membrane (Moore et al. CITATION). We therefore tested whether Alb3 is able to interact with Lhcb1 in the split-ubiquitin system. As shown in Table 3, no interaction between Alb3-Cub-TF and NubG-Lhcb1 was detected. However, Western blot experiments showed that only a small amount of NubG-Lhcb1 is located in the membrane fraction, whereas most is present in the cytosolic fraction of the transformed yeast cells (Fig. 2b). The lack of interaction between Alb3 and Lhcb1 may therefore have been due to the incorrect expression of Lhcb1 in the transformed yeast cells. Recently, Zhang et al. published that the thylakoid membrane protein cpSecY is involved in the insertion of D1 by interacting transiently with D1 intermediates during elongation (Zhang et al. CITATION). However, in contrast to the clear interaction between Alb3 and D1, we detected no interaction between cpSecY and D1 using the split-ubiquitin system. Similarly, no interaction between cpSecY and D2, or the reaction center protein of PSI, PSI-A, was observed (Table 3). The experiments mentioned above concentrated on thylakoid membrane proteins from A. thaliana. As a further step, the feasibility of the split-ubiquitin system to study the interaction of proteins found in cyanobacteria was tested. Using a standard yeast two-hybrid system, binding of the soluble periplasmic protein PratA from Synechocystis spp. PCC 6803 to the soluble 68-amino-acids comprising C-terminus of the D1 protein had already been demonstrated (Klinkert et al. CITATION). Our experiments using the split-ubiquitin system confirmed the binding of PratA to full-length D1 localized in the membrane (Table 4). Furthermore, the data suggest a dimerization of D1, which one would expect, considering the tight binding of D1 to the closely related D2 protein in PSII. [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] In summary, the split-ubiquitin system can be used to analyse interactions between thylakoid membrane proteins, but also to investigate binding between soluble proteins, like PratA, and thylakoid membrane proteins, like D1 for example.
!~MM~! To construct the bait plasmids, the vectors pTMBV4 and pAMBV4 encoding the Cub fragment were used. The reporter in these plasmids consists of the LexA-DNA-binding domain and the VP16-activation domain (TF) (Dualsystems Biotech AG). From the vector pADSL-Nx, which encodes the Nub fragment, the prey plasmids were constructed (Dualsystems Biotech AG). The vector pADSL-Nx also encodes a hemagglutinin–epitope tag. The mature full-length genes of cpSecY, cpSecE, Alb3 and Lhcb1 and the deletion constructs Alb357–350, cpSecE41–133 and cpSecE122–177 were obtained by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification from plasmids carrying the desired genes. The complete gene sequences of D1, D2, CP43, PSI-A and CF0III were amplified by PCR using total DNA, isolated from Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia 0) by Nucleon Phytopure Kit (Tepnel), as the template. Similarly, psbA and PratA genes from Synechocystis were amplified from total cyanobacterial DNA. The primer combinations for all PCR are shown in Table 1. The proof-reading polymerase DyNAzyme EXT (Finnzymes) was used in all PCR set-ups. The PCR products were restricted as described in Table 1 and then cloned into the corresponding restriction sites of the bait or prey vector. In each case, successful insertion of the DNA fragments into the plasmids was verified by sequencing. [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] Yeast strain DSY-1 (Dualsystems Biotech AG) was co-transformated with the indicated combinations of bait and the prey plasmids as described previously (Jonas-Straube et al. CITATION). Half of the cells were plated onto synthetic medium lacking leucine and tryptophan (−LT). The other half was plated onto synthetic medium lacking leucine, tryptophan and histidine (−LTH). All culture media contained 0.004% adenine. Yeast cells were incubated for 3 days at 30°C. Activation of the −his/lacZ reporter genes was judged by measuring the cell growth and assessing the β-galactosidase activity by using the filter-lift assay (Breeden and Nasmyth CITATION). Growth was classified as (+++), (++), (+), and (−). Growth labelled (+++) meant that the plates were virtually completely covered with colonies, and (−) meant no growth of yeast cells was observed. The filter lifts were incubated for 2 h to develop a blue colour (+) or no blue colour (−). As a positive control for pTMBV4/pAMBV4-constructs, we co-transformed yeast cells with the plasmid pAlg5-NubI, which encodes the Alg5 protein fused to the NubI fragment. Alg5 is an unrelated resident ER protein encoding a yeast dolichyl–phosphate glucosyltransferase. As negative controls for the pTMBV4/pAMBV4 constructs, the plasmid pAlg5-NubG and pADSL-Nx expressing soluble NubG were used for the co-transformations. To test the specificity of the pADSL-Nx constructs, they were co-transformed with the control-plasmid pMBV-Alg5 (Dualsystems Biotech AG), which encodes the Alg5 protein fused to the Cub fragment and the reporter and with the empty pTMBV4/pAMBV4 plasmids expressing soluble Cub. To prepare total yeast extracts, three yeast colonies expressing either Cub-TF- or NubG-fusion proteins were inoculated into 10 ml of synthetic medium, lacking leucine or tryptophane, respectively, and incubated overnight at 30°C to an OD600 of 1. The cells were spun down at 700 g for 5 min in a 14-ml Falcon tube. The pellet was re-suspended in SD medium, and the solution transferred into 1.5-ml reaction tubes. After a further centrifugation step, 200 μl 2× SDS sample buffer and 100 μl glass beads were added to lyse the cells. These suspensions was vortexed vigorously for 1 min and was then incubated for 3 min at 98°C. After centrifugation, the supernatant was transferred into new tubes, and a sample volume of 10 μl was used for gelelectrophoresis. Yeast colonies expressing Cub-TF- or NubG-fusion proteins were inoculated into 200-ml SD medium and incubated at 30°C overnight to an OD600 of 1. The cells were harvested at 700 g for 5 min. The pellets were re-suspended in 3 ml of cold lysis buffer [50 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5 containing a protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche)]. The suspension was transferred into 2-ml tubes, and 200 μl of glass beads were added. Next, the cells were vortexed vigorously for 30 s, cooled on ice for 1 min and vortexed again. This step was repeated seven times. The samples were centrifuged at 700×g for 20 min at 4°C. The supernatant was carefully transferred into new 1.5-ml reaction tubes and spun down again for 10 min. The supernatant was transferred into polyallomer tubes and spun down for 2 h at 150,000 g at 4°C. The supernatant (cytosolic fraction) was taken off, and 1 ml of the suspension was precipitated using trichloracetic acid. The resulting pellet was washed with 200 μl cold lysis buffer containing protease inhibitors. Then 200 μl lysis buffer containing 1% Triton X-100 was added, and the pellet was resuspended. The suspension was centrifuged again for 2 h at 150,000×g, and only the supernatant was kept. The protein extracts were concentrated by methanol–chloroform precipitation (Wessel and Flügge CITATION). The precipitated proteins were resuspended in SDS sample buffer and analysed using gelelectrophoresis. Standard protocols were used for SDS-Page and Western Blot analysis of the protein extracts. To detect bait proteins (encoded by the pAMBV4 or pTMBV4 constructs) the rabbit anti-LexA polyclonal antibody was used (1:5,000 dilution, Invitrogen). To locate the prey proteins (encoded by the pADSL-Nx constructs) the mouse anti-HA monoclonal antibody was used (1:2,500 dilution, Roche).
