!~ABS~! The plant hormone auxin has been implicated in virtually every aspect of plant growth and development. Auxin acts by promoting the degradation of transcriptional regulators called Aux/IAA proteins. Aux/IAA degradation requires TIR1, an F box protein that has been shown to function as an auxin receptor. However, loss of TIR1 has a modest effect on auxin response and plant development. Here we show that three additional F box proteins, called AFB1, 2, and 3, also regulate auxin response. Like TIR1, these proteins interact with the Aux/IAA proteins in an auxin-dependent manner. Plants that are deficient in all four proteins are auxin insensitive and exhibit a severe embryonic phenotype similar to the mp/arf5 and bdl/iaa12 mutants. Correspondingly, all TIR1/AFB proteins interact with BDL, and BDL is stabilized in triple mutant plants. Our results indicate that TIR1 and the AFB proteins collectively mediate auxin responses throughout plant development.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome encodes nearly 700 F box proteins, most of which have not been characterized (CITATION). TIR1 is a member of a small subclade consisting of seven proteins (CITATIONA; CITATION). In addition to TIR1, this group includes COI1, a protein required for response to the plant hormone jasmonic acid (CITATION), and five proteins of unknown function. We began our study of this family by focusing on the three proteins that are most closely related to TIR1: AFB1 (At4g03190), AFB2 (At3g26810), and AFB3 (At1g12820) for Auxin signaling F box protein 1, 2, and 3. We first asked if these proteins are present in SCF complexes together with CUL1 and the SKP1-related protein ASK1. Transgenic lines expressing c-myc-tagged versions of AFB1 and AFB3 under control of the CaMV35S promoter were generated and used for coimmunoprecipitation studies. The results in CITATIONB show that these two F box proteins interact with both CUL1 and ASK1, confirming that they are subunits in SCF complexes. Despite repeated attempts, we were unable to generate a line that expresses an epitope-tagged version of AFB2. Previous studies have shown that SCFTIR1 interacts with members of the Aux/IAA family of proteins in the presence of auxin (CITATION). To determine if AFB1, 2, and 3 also interact with Aux/IAA proteins, we performed GST pull-down experiments with GST-IAA7. In the case of AFB1 and AFB3, pull-downs were performed using extracts prepared from seedlings expressing c-myc-tagged versions of these proteins. A line expressing TIR1-myc was included for comparison. The results in CITATIONC show that both proteins interact with GST-IAA7 and that this interaction is promoted by auxin. In the case of AFB2, the F box protein was synthesized in a TNT wheat germ extract. This protein also interacted with GST-IAA7 in an auxin-dependent manner (CITATIOND). These results indicate that all three F box proteins interact with Aux/IAA proteins in vitro. The TIR1 gene is expressed throughout plant development including embryogenesis (CITATION). To characterize expression of the AFB genes, we used a combination of RT-PCR and promoter-GUS analysis. Based on RT-PCR studies, the pattern of AFB1 expression is very similar to that of TIR1, with the highest levels of expression in 12-day-old seedlings and flowers (CITATIONA). The AFB2 and AFB3 genes are more highly expressed than either TIR1 or AFB1. AFB2 RNA is slightly more abundant in seedlings, while AFB3 is more highly expressed in the inflorescence and in flowers. The analysis of promoter::GUS fusions for each gene also indicate that these genes are expressed in largely overlapping domains. A total of 10 independent transgenic lines was analyzed for each promoter::GUS fusion. Each gene is expressed in seedling root tips, emerging lateral roots, vascular bundles in cotyledons and mature leaves, and in mature floral organs (CITATIONB). In general, the activity of each promoter, as measured by GUS staining, corresponded to the level of RNA measured by RT-PCR. Thus, the TIR1 and AFB1 promoters are less active, while AFB2 and AFB3 are more highly expressed. In addition, each gene is expressed throughout embryogenesis as early as the preglobular embryo (CITATIONB). Our data clearly indicate that TIR1 and the AFBs are widely expressed. However, it is important to note that recent computational studies identified a microRNA called miR393 that may also regulate TIR1/AFB RNA levels (CITATION). So far the biological function of miR393 has not been reported. Previous studies indicate that the Aux/IAA proteins are nuclear localized. To determine if TIR1 and the AFBs are also nuclear proteins, we generated constructs that fused GFP to the N terminus of each protein and introduced these constructs into Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. The results shown in CITATIONC indicate that all four proteins are strongly localized to the nucleus in these cells. To further investigate the function of the AFB genes in auxin response, we identified T-DNA insertion alleles in the Wisconsin collection (CITATIONA). We selected the afb1-1, afb2-1, and afb3-1 alleles for further analysis. The positions of the T-DNA insertions for these alleles are nucleotides 1472, 812, and 1834, respectively (relative to the ATG for each gene), and the effect of each insertion on accumulation of AFB transcripts was determined by RT-PCR. No transcript was observed in the afb2-1 mutant, suggesting that this allele is a null (CITATIONB). Both the afb1-1 and abf3-1 insertions result in a truncated transcript (CITATIONB). The role of the AFB genes in auxin response was assessed in afb1-1, afb2-1, and afb3-1 seedlings. First we determined the effects of auxin on root elongation. CITATIONC shows that the afb1-1 allele had no effect on auxin inhibition of root growth. In contrast, both afb2-1 and afb3-1 seedlings were resistant to auxin compared to the Ws control, with afb2-1 displaying a slightly higher level of resistance than afb3-1. Next we examined auxin induction of lateral roots in the mutant lines. Both afb1-1 and afb3-1 were similar to Ws, but afb2-1 seedlings were deficient in this response (CITATIOND). Similar results have been obtained with independent T-DNA mutants for each gene, confirming that these phenotypes are due to mutations in the AFB genes (data not shown). To determine whether TIR1 and the AFB genes function redundantly, we generated higher order mutants and examined auxin response in these lines. The data in CITATIONE and 3F show that loss of these genes results in a progressive decrease in auxin response during both root elongation and lateral root formation. The introduction of afb2 or afb3 into a tir1-1 background resulted in an additive increase in auxin resistance, indicating that each of these genes contributes to auxin response (CITATIONE and data not shown). When we constructed the tir1-1 afb2-1 afb3-1 triple mutant, we found that a large proportion of these plants arrested shortly after germination (see below). However, seedlings that did develop a root displayed a high level of auxin resistance with respect to both elongation and lateral root formation. Finally, the introduction of afb1-1 into the triple mutant further enhanced the phenotype. Based on these results, we conclude that all four genes contribute to auxin response in the root. TIR1, AFB2, and AFB3 appear to contribute equally to the response, while AFB1 has a lesser role. However, it is important to note that the afb1-1 and afb3-1 alleles may not be nulls, leaving open the possibility of a larger role for these two genes in these processes. Mutations in the closely related COI1 gene are insensitive to jasmonic acid (JA), indicating that COI1 targets repressors of the JA response (CITATION). To determine whether the AFB genes also function in this response, we examined the effects of exogenous JA on root growth in the tir1-1 afb2-1 afb3-1 and tir1-1 afb1-1 afb2-1 afb3-1 plants. The results in CITATIONG show that JA sensitivity is not altered in these mutants. Since the Aux/IAA proteins are relatively stable in the tir1 mutant, we would expect auxin-induced transcription to be reduced in this mutant (CITATION). However, tir1 plants are not obviously affected in the expression of known auxin-responsive genes (data not shown). To determine whether TIR1 and the AFB genes cooperate to regulate gene expression, we examined expression of several members of the Aux/IAA gene family in tir1-1 afb2-1 afb3-1 and tir1-1 afb1-1 afb2-1 afb3-1 mutant plants. The results in CITATIONA show that expression of the IAA1 and IAA5 genes is significantly altered in triple mutant plants and further reduced in the quadruple mutant. To confirm these results, we crossed the auxin-responsive reporter DR5rev::GFP into tir1-1 afb2-1 afb3-1 plants (CITATION). The results show that tir1-1 afb2-1 afb3-1 seedlings are severely deficient in auxin-regulated expression of this reporter (CITATIONB). Our results indicate that the AFB proteins are subunits in SCF complexes that interact with Aux/IAA protein IAA7. To determine whether the AFB proteins are required for Aux/IAA protein degradation, we introduced the HS::AXR3NT-GUS transgene into the afb mutants. This construct has been used to assess proteasome-mediated degradation of the AXR3/IAA17 protein (CITATION). Seedlings were exposed to high temperature for 120 min and incubated in 5 μM 2,4-D thereafter. GUS staining was performed 0, 30, and 60 min after the end of the high temperature period. The results in CITATIONC show that each single mutant is deficient in degradation of AXR3NT-GUS. After 30 min, GUS staining is absent in the wild-type control but still present in each of the mutant lines. The stabilization of AXR3NT-GUS in the afb1-1 mutant confirms that AFB1 is involved in auxin response despite the lack of a mutant phenotype. GUS staining persists in afb2-1 and afb3-1 after 60 min, consistent with the stronger auxin response phenotype of these lines relative to afb1-1. The tir1-1 aft2-1 afb3-1 genotype is dramatically altered with intense GUS staining, even after 60 min. These results demonstrate that SCFAFB1/2/3 is required for auxin-dependent degradation of Aux/IAA proteins. To investigate the role of the AFB genes in plant growth and development, we characterized the phenotype of the afb mutants as well as various combinations of these mutants. When grown either in the dark or the light, afb1, afb2, and afb3 mutant seedlings were all similar to wild-type in appearance (data not shown). This was also true of all double mutant combinations involving the afb mutants and tir1. However, severe defects were observed in triple and quadruple mutants. When the progeny of homozygous tir1-1 afb2-1 afb3-1 or tir1-1 afb1-1 afb2-1 afb3-1 plants are placed on agar medium, an array of phenotypes is observed that we have divided into three classes. Representative quadruple mutant seedlings are shown in CITATIONA. A similar range of phenotypes was observed among the triple mutant seedlings. The most severely affected seedlings (class I) lack a root and often have a single cotyledon (CITATIONA and 5B). The hypocotyl is either absent or rudimentary and does not elongate in the dark or light. The class I phenotype is remarkably similar to that of the bdl/iaa12 or mp/arf5 mutants (CITATION). In the case of the triple mutant, 36% (n = 146) had this phenotype, while in the quadruple mutant, 49% (n = 129) were in this class. An intermediate class, called class II (11% of triple mutants and 15% of quadruple mutants), developed a short root with a gravitropic defect. These plants would occasionally form several small leaves before dying (CITATIONA). The hypocotyls of class II seedlings were shorter than wild-type in the light and dark and, like the roots, appear to have a defect in tropic response. In addition, these seedlings lacked the characteristic apical hook. The remainder of the seedlings (class III) produced a root with a clear defect in gravitropism and very few root hairs (CITATIONA and 5C). In the dark, these seedlings lacked an apical hook and many were shorter than wild-type. The relative sizes of the three classes were unchanged in both the triple and quadruple mutant through at least four generations. Later in development, both the afb1-1 and the afb2-1 mutants are similar to the wild-type (Ws) in appearance (data not shown). The afb3-1 mutant is slightly shorter than the wild-type line and has shorter siliques (data not shown). All double mutant combinations are also much like wild-type in appearance except that the afb3-1 silique defect is present in all lines containing afb3-1. The one exception is the tir1-1 afb2-1 line, which exhibits a reduction in rosette leaf size and inflorescence height (CITATIONI and 5N). Class III tir1 afb2 afb3 and tir1 afb1 afb2 afb3 seedlings continue to grow and form rosettes with small, highly curled leaves (CITATIONJ and 5K). When the triple and quadruple mutants flower, they produce a highly branched dwarf inflorescence (CITATIONO and 5P). With respect to both rosette and inflorescence phenotype, the quadruple mutant is more severely affected than the triple mutant, indicating that AFB1 contributes to growth and development at these stages. Recent studies suggest that auxin has an important role in patterning of the root meristem. To characterize the root defects in the tir1/afb mutants in more detail, we stained wild-type and tir1-1 afb1-1 afb2-1 afb3-1 seedling roots with Lugol solution to visualize the columella cells. CITATIONF shows three quadruple mutant seedlings representing, from left to right, class I, II, and III seedlings. All three seedlings have defects in root organization. Class I seedlings lack a recognizable root meristem. Class II seedlings have a highly disorganized meristem with a few cells showing faint Lugol staining, indicative of a columella fate. Class III seedlings have a columella, but the cells are not arranged in organized layers as in wild-type seedlings. We further characterized the meristems of class III quadruple mutants by determining the number of meristematic cells in 7-day-old seedlings. We found that Col and Ws had 59.4 ± 6.4 and 62.5 ± 6.1 meristem cells, respectively, while tir1 afb1 afb2 afb3 seedlings had 45.7 ± 4.8 meristem cells (n = 10 for each genotype). Based on a Student’s t test, the difference between the quadruple mutant and each wild-type line was significant with p < .005. These results indicate that even in those seedlings that develop a relatively normal root, the tir1/afb mutations affect cell proliferation in the meristem. The severe phenotype exhibited by tir1 afb triple and quadruple mutant seedlings as shown in CITATIONB strongly resembles bdl mutant seedlings, which have a gain-of-function mutation in the IAA12 protein (CITATION). The bdl phenotype can be traced to early embryo stages, and thus we examined whether the origin of the triple mutant phenotype corresponds to that of the bdl mutant. The embryos of tir1-1, afb2-1, and afb3-1 single mutants all develop normally (data not shown). In contrast, 48% (n = 186) of tir1-1 afb2-1 afb3-1 embryos display early defects in embryogenesis, consistent with the occurrence of a similar proportion of defective seedlings. Embryogenesis appears normal up to the globular stage. At that point, while in wild-type embryos the hypophysis first divides asymmetrically (CITATIONA) and further cell divisions give rise to the embryonic root meristem (CITATIOND and 6G), in tir1-1 afb2-1 afb3-1 embryos, defects in hypophysis division are apparent (CITATIONC) and are followed by the failure to establish an embryonic root meristem (CITATIONF and 6I). Like the seedling phenotype, this basal embryo phenotype is indistinguishable from that of the bdl/iaa12 and mp/arf5 at the globular and heart stages of embryogenesis (CITATIONB and 6E; CITATION). At later embryonic stages, the triple mutant phenotype is slightly stronger than that of most bdl embryos (CITATIONH and 6I) and resembles more the phenotype of mp/arf5 embryos (CITATION). These results suggest that TIR1/AFB-dependent degradation of BDL, and possibly other Aux/IAA proteins, is required for patterning of the early embryo. The gain-of-function bdl mutation lies within domain II of IAA12, suggesting that the mutant phenotype is due to stabilization of IAA12 (CITATION). To determine whether BDL/IAA12 is degraded in an auxin-dependent manner, we generated Arabidopsis lines expressing BDL:GUS and bdl:GUS fusion proteins from the endogenous promoter and 5′ and 3′ UTRs. The BDL:GUS and bdl:GUS proteins are expressed throughout the plant in vascular tissue (data not shown), with the pattern at the distal root tip (CITATIONJ) closely resembling the mRNA pattern in late embryos and the GUS pattern in previously described pBDL::GUS lines (CITATION). Plants carrying the BDL:GUS gene were wild-type in appearance, whereas plants containing a single bdl:GUS copy resembled bdl heterozygotes (not shown) and those containing two bdl:GUS copies were rootless (CITATIONR). Hence, the GUS fusion proteins reflect the activity of the endogenous BDL gene. GUS staining experiments reveal that BDL:GUS is destabilized by a 60 min treatment with 20 μM IAA (CITATIONJ, 6K, and 6M), while the bdl:GUS protein is unaffected by this treatment (CITATIONO and 6P). Treatments with the proteasome inhibitor MG132 showed that auxin-dependent BDL degradation requires the proteasome (CITATIONL). Thus, BDL behaves as a bona fide substrate for auxin-induced proteasome-dependent degradation, which makes it a likely substrate for SCFTIR/AFB during embryogenesis. To investigate this possibility, we performed pull-down experiments with GST:BDL and GST:bdl using extracts prepared from TIR1:Myc seedlings. The results show that BDL/IAA12 interacts with SCFTIR1 in the presence of auxin, similar to IAA7 (CITATIONU). In contrast, GST:bdl does not interact with SCFTIR1, confirming that domain II of BDL/IAA12 is involved in TIR1 binding. As expected from the contribution of multiple AFB proteins to embryo development (CITATIONC, 6F, and 6I), AFB1 and AFB3 also interact with BDL/IAA12 in the presence of auxin (CITATIONU). Finally, an antiserum raised against two peptides specific for BDL detects a protein the size of BDL (26 kDa) in bdl and tir1-1 afb2-1 afb3-1 extracts, but not in extracts from wild-type or iaa12-1 (T-DNA insertion line in the IAA12 gene) plants (CITATIONV). Consistent with reduced degradation of BDL protein, the BDL:GUS fusion protein is more abundant in tir1-1 afb2-1 afb3-1 (CITATIONT) than in wild-type seedlings (CITATIONS). Taken together, these results strongly suggest that TIR1 and the AFB proteins regulate auxin response during embryogenesis by promoting the auxin-dependent degradation of BDL/IAA12 and perhaps other Aux/IAA proteins.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis mutant lines afb1-1, afb2-1, and afb3-1 are in the Wassilewskija (Ws) ecotype. All other mutants and transgenic lines used in this study were in the Columbia (Col-0) ecotype. The iaa12-1 allele is a T-DNA insertion in the second exon (amino acid position 145) of the BDL gene and was kindly provided by A. Theologis (Plant Gene Expression Center, Albany, CA). The GVG::TIR1-myc[tir1-1], DR5rev::GFP, and HS::AXR3NT-GUS lines have been described elsewhere (CITATION). To grow seedlings under aseptic conditions, seeds were surface sterilized and plated on Arabidopsis thaliana medium containing 1% sucrose (ATS) with 8 g agar per liter and placed vertically in a growth chamber at 22°C under continuous light. Where necessary, 8- to 10-day-old seedlings were transferred to soil and grown at 22°C under continuous light. For root elongation and lateral root assays, 5-day-old seedlings growing on minimal medium on vertical agar plates were transferred onto media with or without hormone and grown vertically under constant light for designated times. Alternatively, 6-day-old seedlings were transferred into liquid ATS medium with or without 2,4-D and incubated for designated times with mild shaking. To examine auxin-regulated expression of the DR5rev::GFP reporter, seedlings were grown on ATS medium for 6 days and transferred onto ATS with or without 1 μM 2,4-D for 24 hr. Roots were counterstained with propidium iodide (10 μg/ml) and observed under the UltraVIEW LCI confocal microscope (Perkin Elmer). The AFB1 cDNA was cloned into the BamHI and PstI sites of pBluescript SK vector. AFB2 was cloned into the EcoRI site of the pBluescript SK vector, and the AFB3 cDNA was amplified from a Col-0 cDNA library and cloned into the pCR 2.1 vector. To express c-myc-tagged versions in plants, AFB1 and AFB3 cDNAs carrying the c-myc epitope were placed behind a 35S CaMV promoter in the binary vector pROKII and introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were generated by transforming tir1-1 mutant plants using the floral dip method to generate the tir1-1 35S::AFB1-myc and tir1-1 35S::AFB3 lines. The AFB2 cDNA carrying the c-myc epitope at the C terminus was cloned into pTNT vector (Invitrogen) between EcoRI and KpnI restriction sites. To express GST-BDL, the BDL cDNA was cloned into the pGEX-2T vector. Promoter::GUS transcriptional fusion constructs were created by cloning 1.8 kb regions upstream of the AFB1, AFB2, and AFB3 genes into the pBI101 binary vector. Transgenic plants were generated as described above. To create BDL:GUS, first an SpeI restriction site was introduced 1 amino acid position upstream of the BDL stop codon in a pGreenII/BAR binary vector (CITATION) containing a genomic fragment spanning 4.5 kb of the BDL gene (CITATION). Then, a PCR-amplified GUS open reading frame with in-frame SpeI sites on both ends was introduced into this vector to create pGreenII/BAR BDL:GUS. The bdl (P72S) mutation was introduced into the BDL:GUS gene by PCR-mediated mutagenesis. Both BDL:GUS and bdl:GUS transgenes were introduced into wild-type Columbia plants. T-DNA insertional mutants of AFB1, AFB2, and AFB3 were isolated by screening the University of Wisconsin lines (WS). Gene specific primers 5AFB1, 5′-CGATTCCCACCTAAGGTGTTGGAACATAT-3′; 5AFB2, 5′-GGAATCTTGCTGGTGAAGTTAGAGATGAA-3′; and 5AFB3, 5′-CCAGACGAGGTTATAGAGCACGTGTTTGA-3′, together with the T-DNA-specific left border primer JL202, 5′-CATTTTATAATAACGCTGCGGACATCTAC-3′ were used for mutant screening. After selecting the mutants, T-DNA insertion sites were confirmed by sequencing the PCR products using the JL202 primer. Two independent T-DNA insertion lines each were identified in this screen for AFB1, AFB2, and AFB3. Of these, afb1-1, afb2-1, and afb3-1 alleles were selected for further analysis. The genotypes of single, double, triple, and quadruple mutants were confirmed by PCR. Similarly, the DR5rev::GFP and HS::AXR3NT-GUS transgenes were introduced into tir1 afb2 afb3 plants by crossing. The appropriate genotypes were identified in the F2 populations and confirmed by PCR-based genotyping and antibiotic resistance. The TIR1 and AFB cDNAs were introduced into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). The GFP-TIR1 and GFP-AFB fusions were obtained after LR recombination (Invitrogen) between the entry clones and pVR-GFPNt (kindly provided by X.W. Deng) (CITATION). The GFP fusion proteins were transiently expressed in agro-infiltrated leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana as previously described (CITATION). Three days after infection, the infiltrated leaves were peeled and observed by epifluorescence microcscopy using a NIKON E800. To determine expression of the Aux/IAA genes, 6-day-old mutant and wild-type seedlings were transferred from vertical agar plates into liquid ATS medium, washed for 10 min, and transferred into fresh ATS medium with or without 20 μM 2,4-D. The seedlings were incubated with mild shaking for 60 min, washed with DEPC-treated water, and ground in liquid nitrogen. To analyze expression of the AFB genes at different stages of development, 100 mg of plant material was collected from Col-0 seedlings grown on vertical plates or from mature tissues of soil-grown plant. Total RNA was extracted using Tri-Reagent (Sigma), and 10 μg total RNA was used in reverse transcription reaction using SuperScript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) and oligo-dT primer. 1 μl of the reverse transcription reaction was amplified in 25 μl PCR reaction volume with specific primers. tir1-1 35S::AFB1-myc and tir1-1 35S::AFB3 seedlings were grown on ATS plates under continuous light at 22°C for 10–12 days. The tir1 GVG::TIR1-myc line is described elsewhere (CITATION). Crude protein extracts were prepared in buffer containing 50 mM Tris-Cl (pH 7.2), 100 mM NaCl, 10% glycerol, 1 mM PMSF, 10 μM MG132, and complete mini protease inhibitors per manufacturer’s instructions (Roche Diagnostics GmbH). Cell debris was removed by centrifugation at 10,000 × g for 10 min. Total protein concentration was determined by the Bradford assay (BioRad). For immunoprecipitation, plant extract containing 1 mg of protein was incubated with α-myc antibody (1:150 v/v) for 1 hr at 4°C on a rotory shaker. Then, 20 μl of Protein A agarose was added and incubated for another 3 hr at 4°C. Agarose beads were recovered after a brief spin, and the immunoprecipitate was washed 3 times with 1 ml washing buffer (extraction buffer without MG 132 or protease inhibitors). The immunoprecipitate was resuspended in 2× sample buffer and separated on 12.5% SDS-PAGE. The presence of CUL1 and ASK1 in the immunoprecipitate was determined by immunoblotting with α-CUL1 and α-ASK1 antibody. For pull-down assays, GST-IAA7 or GST-BDL was expressed in E. coli and purified using glutathione beads according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Pull-down assays were carried out using crude plant extracts as described elsewhere (CITATION) in the presence of different concentrations of auxin. After washing the pull-down reactions with washing buffer three times, proteins were separated on SDS-PAGE. AFB-myc proteins were detected by immunoblotting with α-myc antibody and anti-mouse IgG as secondary antibody. Proteins were visualized using the ECL kit (Pierce). To analyze BDL protein levels, floral buds and young flowers were collected from Columbia, bdl, iaa12-1, and tir1-1 afb2-1 afb3-1 plants, homogenized in ice-cold buffer (50 mM Na-phosphate [pH 7.5], 150 mM NaCl, 0.5% Triton-X100 containing 50 mM MG132, 1 mM PMSF, and complete plant protease inhibitor cocktail [Sigma]), and centrifuged twice at 10,000 × g for 15 min at 4°C. Equal amounts of protein were loaded onto 12% PAA gels and blotted onto Immobilon P PVDF membranes (Millipore). Membranes were incubated with a 1:1500 dilution of crude rabbit serum raised against two synthetic peptides RGVSELEVGKSNLPA (aa 2–16) and CPRRQEQKDRQRNNPV (aa 225–239) of BDL (Eurogentec, Belgium). A horseradish peroxidase-coupled goat-anti-rabbit secondary antibody was used to detect signals using ECLplus reagent (Amersham). For the analysis of embryo phenotypes, siliques containing immature seeds were collected from Columbia, bdl, tir1-1, afb2-1, afb3-1, and tir1-1 afb2-1 afb3-1 plants, slit along both sides of the septum, fixed, and mounted in chloral hydrate as described (CITATION). For promoter::GUS studies, plant material was washed with 100 mM Na2HPO4 and stained as described previously (CITATION) except that the duration of staining was 4 hr. For embryo staining, siliques of various developmental stages were collected, slit along both sides of the septum, fixed in 90% acetone at −20°C for 30 min, and stained for GUS activity as described (CITATION) for several hours. After staining, siliques were fixed and mounted in chloral hydrate as described (CITATION). 4-day-old seedlings from representative BDL:GUS (homozygous) and bdl:GUS (hemizygous) transgenic lines were transferred into either control liquid 1/2MS medium or the same medium containing 20 μM IAA or 50 μM MG132 and incubated for 1 hr at room temperature. Alternatively, seedlings were pretreated for 1 hr in control medium or medium containing 50 μM MG132. Then, IAA was added to a final concentration of 20 μM, and seedlings were incubated for another hour. After treatment, seedlings were stained for GUS activity during 3 hr as described (CITATION). 6-day-old HS::AXR3NT-GUS seedlings were heat shocked at 37°C for 120 min in liquid ATS medium. The seedlings were collected by filtration and transferred into new medium containing 5 μM 2,4-D, and samples of at least 12 seedlings were taken out at designated times to stain for GUS activity. A selected BDL:GUS line was crossed with a homozygous tir1-1 afb2-1 afb3-1 plant, and triple mutant seedlings carrying the transgene were selected in the F2 generation and stained for GUS activity along with wild-type siblings from the same F2 population.
