!~ABS~! The proper organization of cortical microtubule arrays is essential for anisotropic growth in plants but how distinct array patterns are formed is not understood. Here, we report a relationship between microtubule dynamics and array organization using transgenic plants expressing modified tubulins. When green fluorescent protein (GFP) or a hemaglutinin epitope tag was fused to the N-terminus of tubulins and expressed in Arabidopsis plants, these tubulins were incorporated into microtubules along with endogenous tubulins. Plants expressing the modified β-tubulins were phenotypically normal and possessed transversely oriented cortical arrays in the epidermal cells of the root elongation zone; however, the expression of modified α-tubulins caused right-handed helical growth, increased trichome branching, and a shallow left-handed (S-form) helical array organization. In cells expressing the modified α-tubulins, microtubule dynamicity was suppressed and polymerization was promoted, and GFP-EB1 (End Binding 1) labeled larger regions of the microtubule end more frequently, when compared with control cells. We propose that the N-terminal appendage introduced into α-tubulin inhibits GTP hydrolysis, thus producing polymerization-prone microtubules with an extended GTP cap. Consistent with this interpretation, plants expressing an α-tubulin mutated in the GTPase-activating domain exhibited similar microtubule properties, with regard to dynamics and the localization of GFP-EB1, and showed right-handed helical growth.
!~RES~! We have previously reported that, when GFP was fused to the N-terminus of the Arabidopsis α-tubulin 6 isoform (TUA6) and expressed constitutively under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter in transgenic Arabidopsis plants, the fusion protein was incorporated into and fluorescently labeled microtubules in aerial tissues (CITATION). The transgenic plants expressing GFP-TUA6, however, showed helical growth phenotypes; the elongating epidermal cells of petals and petioles were slightly skewed in a steep right-handed helix, thus resulting in a fan-like arrangement of these tissues in the counter-clockwise orientation when viewed from above (Figure 1b), whereas the root epidermal cells grew straight as in wild-type root cells (Figure 1a). [[FIGURE]] To test whether these moderate twisting phenotypes are unique to the GFP-TUA6 construct, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis lines in which GFP was fused to the C-terminus of TUA6, or to either the N- or C-terminus of the Arabidopsis β-tubulin 6 isoform (TUB6). Several kanamycin-resistant lines were obtained for each construct and were analyzed for the transgene expression. Northern blot analysis with a GFP hybridization probe detected full-length transcripts in GFP-TUA6 and GFP-TUB6 lines, whereas only partially degraded transcripts were present in TUB6-GFP lines and no transgene transcripts were detectable in TUA6-GFP lines (data not shown). Consistent with the negligible steady-state RNA levels, no TUA6-GFP and TUB6-GFP proteins accumulated and no GFP fluorescence was detected in these transgenic lines (Figure 2a and data not shown). In contrast, GFP-TUA6 and GFP-TUB6 proteins were present in transgenic plants at 20–30% of the endogenous tubulin levels (Figure 2a) and labeled microtubules fluorescently in aerial tissues (CITATION; CITATION). Microtubules in the root epidermal cells, however, were not well labeled with these GFP-tubulin proteins (Figure 3b,g). When Arabidopsis seedlings were divided into aerial parts and roots, and examined separately by Western blotting, levels of both GFP-fusion proteins in the root tissue were approximately 30% of those in aerial tissues (Figure 2b), indicating that low protein accumulation is at least partially responsible for inefficient microtubule labeling in the root cells. The GFP-TUB6 plants did not show helical growth or other abnormal phenotypes, and were indistinguishable from wild-type plants in development and morphology (Figure 1g). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Because the significant size of the barrel-shaped 27-kDa GFP protein (CITATION) may interfere with tubulin polymerization, we next tested whether a short peptide tag affects tubulin functions when fused to the N- or C-terminus of tubulins. When a peptide sequence encoding the hemaglutinin (HA) epitope (11 amino acid residues) was attached to the N-terminus of TUA6 and expressed constitutively, transgenic Arabidopsis plants exhibited a semi-dwarf phenotype and low fertility. Not only petal and petiole epidermal cells but also root showed right-handed helical growth and often became radially swollen (Figure 1c). As the constitutive expression of HA-tagged TUA6 resulted in a low seed set, we also generated transgenic Arabidopsis lines (HA-TUA6/XVE) in which HA-TUA6 expression can be induced by treatment with β-estradiol in the XVE gene-induction system (CITATION). The HA-TUA6/XVE plants showed severe right-handed helical growth and anisotropic growth phenotypes in petals, petioles, and roots, upon treatment with the inducer (Figure 1d,e). In contrast, when the myc tag and the HA tag were, respectively, attached to the C-terminus of TUA6 and to the N-terminus of TUB6, and expressed under the control of the CaMV35S promoter, these transgenic lines did not differ from wild-type plants in development and morphology (Figure 1f,h). Two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the α-tubulin isoforms and subsequent immunoblotting with an α-tubulin antibody revealed that the tagged TUA6 proteins were present in 5–20% of the endogenous α-tubulins (Figure 2c). Immunohistochemical analysis of the transgenic roots further showed that the epitope-tagged TUA6 and TUB6 proteins were incorporated into the cortical microtubule arrays in the root epidermal cells (Figure 3c,e,f,h). Microtubules have an important role in the three-dimensional branching of trichomes (CITATION). We found that plants expressing HA-TUA6 protein showed additional phenotypes in leaf trichomes, besides right-handed helical growth in elongating epidermal cells. In the wild-type Columbia ecotype, more than 90% of leaf trichomes had three branches and approximately 4% had four branches (Table 1 and Figure S1). Transgenic lines expressing GFP-TUA6, GFP-TUB6, TUA6-myc, or HA-TUB6, and the HA-TUA6/XVE line in the absence of the inducer had trichome branch numbers statistically indistinguishable from the wild-type plants. In the plants constitutively or inducibly expressing HA-TUA6, trichomes with three branches decreased to 81–83% whereas that with more than four branches increased to 14–17% of the total trichome population. Data represent percentages of trichomes having the indicated number of branches. ND, not determined. (−ED)/(+ED): absence/presence of β-estradiol in the culture medium. aTotal number of trichomes counted on rosette leaves of 14-day-old seedlings. In the zwi mutant with a defect in a unique calmodulin-binding kinesin (CITATION), trichomes have either one or two branches; trichomes with more than three branches are not observed. However, brief treatment of the mutant's leaves with 20 μm taxol, a microtubule stabilizer, partially rescues the branching defect (CITATION; Figure S1). A ZWI homolog in cotton decorates cortical microtubules in cotton fibers, suggesting ZWI may stabilize microtubules by directly binding to them (CITATION). When HA-TUA6 was constitutively expressed in the zwi background, it occasionally induced an additional branch initiation, thus producing trichomes with three branches (Table 1 and Figure S1). Thus, HA-TUA6 expression phenotypically mimicked the presumably stabilizing effect of taxol on branch initiation in zwi trichomes. To address whether the organization of microtubule arrays underlies the right-handed helical growth in HA-TUA6-expressing cells, we examined the cortical array arrangement in epidermal cells of the root elongation zone by immunohistochemistry with an α-tubulin antibody (Figure 3). Wild-type cells, transgenic cells constitutively expressing GFP-TUA6, GFP-TUB6, TUA6-myc, or HA-TUB6, and transgenic cells of the HA-TUA6/XVE line in the absence of the inducer all had cortical arrays aligned predominantly transverse to the cell's longitudinal axis, whereas the transgenic cells either constitutively or inducibly expressing HA-TUA6 showed oblique arrays that were arranged in shallow left-handed helices. It should be noted that the epitope-tagged tubulins were incorporated into microtubules apparently uniformly and did not show any preference to label particular microtubules with distinct angles or particular microtubules that were formed in distinct cortical regions of a cell. Figure 4 shows a quantitative analysis of the microtubule angle relative to the cell's longitudinal axis, demonstrating that the overall organization of arrays shifted from a transverse to left-handed orientation in HA-TUA6-expressing cells. [[FIGURE]] It is possible that the left-handed organization of arrays in HA-TUA6-expressing cells was caused by altered microtubule dynamics. To analyze microtubule dynamics, we crossed a transgenic line constitutively expressing GFP-TUB6 with the HA-TUA6/XVE line. The dynamics of the plus end of individual microtubules was then monitored in epidermal cells in an upper hypocotyl region (CITATION) (Figure 5). Growth rates of GFP-TUB6-labeled microtubules in control cells and non-induced HA-TUA6 cells were 4.72 and 4.37 mm min−1, respectively, whereas shrinkage rates were 9.43 and 10.79 mm min−1 (Table 2). After the induced expression of HA-TUA6, growth and shrinkage rates of microtubules were, respectively, reduced to 3.59 and 5.69 mm min−1. The frequency of catastrophe did not differ significantly between these three samples. The frequency of rescue in HA-TUA6-expressing cells (0.129 events sec−1), however, was greater than that in control cells or non-induced HA-TUA6 cells (0.093 and 0.072 events sec−1). The observed differences in growth rate, shrinkage rate, and rescue frequency were significant (P < 0.05). As a result, microtubule dynamicity, a composite measurement of all the tubulin dimers gained or lost per unit time (CITATION), was reduced to 3.49 mm min−1 and microtubules spent more time (25.8% of total time observed) in the paused state in HA-TUA6-expressing cells, when compared with microtubule dynamicity of 5.48 and 6.03 mm min−1 and the percentages of paused microtubules were 13.3 and 9.5%, respectively. Remarkably, microtubules in HA-TUA6-expressing cells spent much less time in shrinkage (13.8%) than microtubules in control and non-induced cells. Therefore, expression of HA-TUA6 made the microtubule plus end less dynamic and more prone to polymerization. [[FIGURE]] The frequency of catastrophe was calculated from the inverse of the mean time spent in growth, and the frequency of rescue was obtained from the inverse of the mean time spent in shrinkage as described previously (CITATION). Dynamicity was calculated by dividing the sum of the length grown and shortened, by the total time a particular MT was observed (CITATION). Values for growth and shrinkage rates and dynamicity are expressed as mean ± SD. *Statistically significant difference from control (P < 0.05). The observed changes in microtubule dynamics suggest that, in HA-TUA6-expressing cells, more microtubule plus ends should be in the polymerization or paused phase at a given time point, when compared with control cells. To test this prediction directly, we analyzed the microtubule plus ends labeled by a GFP fused to Arabidopsis End-Binding 1b (GFP-AtEB1; CITATION) (Figure 6a). EB1 is concentrated at the growing end and from where it abruptly disappears when the microtubule begins to shorten (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Although several mechanisms can contribute to localization at the tip (CITATION), EB1 may have an increased affinity for a specific structure of the polymerizing microtubule end, such as the tubulin sheet or GTP cap (CITATION). Pauses in polymerization lasting for several seconds, without a transition to depolymerization, have been generally observed in vivo and in vitro, and EB1 also binds to the paused microtubule ends (CITATION). It has been proposed that a small group of protofilaments occasionally stabilized at the microtubule tip is unable to undergo tubule closure, leading to microtubule pauses (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] In control and non-induced cells of the HA-TUA6/XVE line, GFP-AtEB1 localized to microtubule plus ends in comet-like trailing tails at densities of 72.6 and 76.6 comets per 400 μm2, respectively (Table 3). Taxol treatment of the control cells resulted in more or less uniform labeling along the lengths of microtubules and their occasional bundling. In a large proportion of the taxol-treated microtubules, one polymerizing end was labeled with GFP-AtEB1 as comets much more strongly than the microtubule wall. These fluorescently labeled microtubule ends were present at a density of 98.5 comets per 400 μm2. When HA-TUA6 expression was induced by β-estradiol, GFP-AtEB1-labeled microtubule plus ends exhibited 88.9 comets per 400 μm2. This moderate increase was statistically significant at P < 0.05. (−ED)/(+ED): absence/presence of β-estradiol in the culture medium. *Statistically significant difference from control (P < 0.05). We found that GFP-AtEB1 labeled an extended region of the plus end in HA-TUA6-expressing cells, although the effect was not as strong as observed in taxol-treated control cells. In 13% of the HA-TUA6-expressing cells (n = 55), entire microtubules were labeled as typically seen in taxol-treated control cells (Figure 6b,e). These cells were excluded in the comet size analysis. Such an extended labeling pattern was not observed in control cells (n = 52). When the mean intensity of GFP-AtEB1 was plotted along the end of the labeled microtubule, fluorescence intensity with its peak at the end diminished exponentially to both directions (Figure 6b). The mean half-length at which GFP-AtEB1 intensity diminished to half of its peak intensity was calculated independently in the leading tail to the direction of the microtubule plus end and in the lagging tail to the direction of the minus end (Table 4). The sum of the half-length of both directions was used to evaluate the length of AtEB1 comets. The half comet length was 0.900 μm in control cells and 0.855 μm in uninduced HA-TUA6/XVE cells, whereas it increased to 1.146 μm in HA-TUA6-expressing cells. aLagging and leading tails exponentially decrease in fluorescent intensity toward the minus and plus ends of the microtubule, respectively. bConstants in the exponential regression formula: y = a × ln(x) + b. cThe sum of L1 and L2 defines the half-length of the GFP-AtEB1 comets. We speculated that an epitope tag at the N-terminus of α-tubulin may sterically interfere with its ability to stimulate the hydrolysis of GTP upon joining to a microtubule polymer at the plus end (see Discussion). We reasoned that mutations in the α-tubulin residues involved in the activation of GTPase may produce cellular and morphological phenotypes similar to those observed in HA-TUA6-expressing plants. To test this prediction, we introduced two simultaneous Ala substitution mutations in TUA6 in place of the residues Asp251 and Glu254 (D251A/E254A), which are predicted to function in the activation of GTPase based on microtubule structure (CITATION). Constitutive expression of the TUA6D251A/E254A mutant tubulin (with a C-terminal myc tag) under the control of the CaMV35S promoter in transgenic Arabidopsis plants caused right-handed helical growth in petals and petiole (Figure 1i) and increased branching in leaf trichomes (Table 1). Part of the TUA6D251A/E254A was incorporated into the cortical arrays in the root epidermal cells, although considerable mutant tubulin protein was observed as discrete dots (Figure 3i). The distribution of cortical microtubule arrays in the TUA6D251A/E254A-expressing root cells was shifted slightly toward the direction of left-handed helices (Figures 3i and 4i) but this mild defect in root microtubule organization was apparently not sufficient to cause the helical growth phenotype in roots (Figure 1). Plus end dynamics of individual microtubules in hypocotyl epidermal cells revealed slower shrinkage rate and more frequent rescue in the TUA6D251A/E254A cells than in the controls (Figure 5 and Table 2). Plus end labeling patterns of GFP-AtEB1 further showed that the growing plus ends were moderately more frequent and the labeled plus end region was longer in the TUA6D251A/E254A cells, compared with control cells (Figure 6 and Tables 3 and 4). Therefore, mutations in the presumed GTPase activation residues resulted in longer and more frequent GFP-AtEB1 comets at microtubule polymerizing plus ends. The observed shift of the overall microtubule dynamics toward polymerization is likely a consequence of the structural change at the plus ends, which may reflect the size of the GTP cap. The terminal effect of these changes in microtubule dynamics on cell elongation was a prominent skewing of the cell elongation axis in the direction of right-handed growth.
!~MM~! Seedlings were grown aseptically on a nutrient medium solidified with 1.0% (w/v) agar at 22°C with a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle (CITATION). Taxol (Nacalai Tesque, Tokyo, Japan) was dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide and diluted with the culture medium before use so that the final concentration of dimethyl sulfoxide was <0.1%. To induce expression of HA-TUA6 in the HA-TUA6/XVE plants, seedlings were grown on a nutrient agar medium containing 1 μmβ-estradiol. HA-TUA6, HA-TUA6/XVE and TUA6D251A/E254A-myc transgenes were introduced into the GFP-AtEB1b line (Wassilewskija background; CITATION), the GFP-TUB6 line (Columbia background; CITATION) and zwi9311-11 (RLD background; CITATION) by genetic crosses. Double homozygous lines for each transgene or mutation were used for experiments. Tubulin constructs were first made in the cloning vectors as follows: These tubulin constructs were then inserted between the SmaI and SacI sites of pBI 121 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA) so that fusion proteins are expressed under the control of the CaMV35S promoter. The HA-TUA6 construct was also transferred as the XhoI–SpeI fragment to pER8 of an estrogen receptor-based chemical-inducible system (XVE system; CITATION). These tubulin constructs in binary vectors were introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain MP90 by electroporation. Arabidopsis plants (ecotype Columbia) were transformed by the floral dip method (CITATION). Leaf trichomes on 14-day-old seedlings were observed with an Olympus SXZ12 microscope (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan). For protein extraction, Arabidopsis seedlings were ground in liquid nitrogen and then in ice-cold extraction buffer [25 mm of Mes-KOH, pH 6.8, 5 mm of EGTA, 1 mm of MgCl, 1 mm of phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 1 mm of dithiothreitol, and 5% (w/v) of sucrose]. After filtration through two layers of Miracloth (Calbiochem, San Diego, CA, USA), insoluble debris was removed by centrifugation at 7000 g for 15 min at 4°C. Soluble protein fractions were obtained after centrifuging the total protein extracts twice at 50 000 g for 30 min at 4°C. Soluble protein samples (10 μg) were separated on a 10% SDS-polyacrylamide gel. For two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, soluble proteins (50 μg) were loaded onto Immobiline Drystrip (pH 4–7, 7 cm; Amersham Biosciences, Uppsala, Sweden) by passive rehydration overnight at room temperature. The proteins in the strips were resolved in the first dimension by isoelectric focusing for 3500 V at 20°C using the Multiphor II apparatus (Amersham Biosciences). After the strips were equilibrated for 30 min in SDS buffer [6 m of urea, 1.5 m of Tris-HCl, pH 8.8, 30% glycerol, 2% of SDS, and 1% (w/v) of DTT], they were placed on top of a 12.5% SDS polyacrylamide gel (Bio Craft, Tokyo, Japan) and run in the second dimension at 25 mA per gel. For immunoblot analyses, proteins were transferred to a Hybond-P membrane (Amersham Biosciences) and detected using the ECL-plus kit (Amersham Biosciences) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Anti-α-tubulin antibody (DM1A; Oncogene, Boston, MA, USA) and anti-β-tubulin antibody (TUB 2.1; Sigma, St Louis, MO, USA) were used as primary antibodies. Whole seedlings with primary roots of approximately 1.5 cm long were used for immunostaining. Anti-α-tubulin antibody (DM1A; Oncogene), anti-HA antibody (HA-7; Sigma) and anti-c-myc antibody (9E10; Oncogene) were used as primary antibodies. The secondary antibody used was the fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated anti-mouse antibody (Kirkegaard & Perry, Baltimore, MD, USA). Quantitative analyses of cortical microtubule orientation were performed essentially as described by CITATION and CITATION. Root epidermal cells in the elongation zone were observed with an ECLIPSE C1 confocal microscope (Nikon, Tokyo, Japan) with excitation at 488 nm. Epidermal cells of the upper hypocotyls of 4-day-old light-grown seedlings expressing GFP-TUB6 were analyzed. Confocal imaging of individual microtubules was performed essentially as described by CITATION and CITATION, using a DMRE microscope (Leica, Allendale, NJ, USA) equipped with a CSU10 scanning head (Yokogawa, Tokyo, Japan). Images were taken every 4 sec during the course of 4 min and were analyzed using Scion Image (Scion Corporation, Frederick, MD, USA). Parameters of microtubule dynamics were calculated from three independent measurements per construct or treatment. Epidermal cells of the upper hypocotyls of 4-day-old seedlings expressing GFP-AtEB1 (CITATION) were observed with the ECLIPSE C1 (Nikon) with excitation at 488 nm. The fluorescent intensity of the GFP-AtEB1 comet was analyzed using MetaMorph (Universal Imaging Corp., Dowining Town, PA, USA), according to the procedure described by CITATION. The number of GFP-AtEB1 comets in a 20 μm × 20 μm square of the image was measured in 30 squares of at least 10 cells. For treatment with taxol, seedlings were directly germinated and further grown in nutrient agar medium containing 1 μm taxol.
