!~ABS~! We report the identification and characterization of an Arabidopsis mutant, hos10-1 (for high expression of osmotically responsive genes), in which the expression of RD29A and other stress-responsive genes is activated to higher levels or more rapidly activated than in wild-type by low temperature, exogenous abscisic acid (ABA), or salt stress (NaCl). The hos10-1 plants are extremely sensitive to freezing temperatures, completely unable to acclimate to the cold, and are hypersensitive to NaCl. Induction of NCED3 (the gene that encodes the rate-limiting enzyme in ABA biosynthesis) by polyethylene glycol-mediated dehydration and ABA accumulation are reduced by this mutation. Detached shoots from the mutant plants display an increased transpiration rate compared with wild-type plants. The hos10-1 plants exhibit several developmental alterations, such as reduced size, early flowering, and reduced fertility. The HOS10 gene encodes a putative R2R3-type MYB transcription factor that is localized to the nucleus. Together, these results indicate that HOS10 is an important coordinating factor for responses to abiotic stress and for growth and development.
!~RES~!  Identification of the HOS10 Locus. Through a luciferase imaging-based screen (CITATION), we isolated one mutant, hos10-1, that has a 3- to 4-fold higher level of RD29A::LUC expression after low temperature, ABA, and/or NaCl stress treatments (FIG-REF). All 41 F1 progeny of hos10-1 backcrossed to wild-type plants exhibited a wild-type phenotype. Approximately three-quarters of the F2 progeny of the selfed F1 plants displayed a wild-type phenotype, indicating that hos10-1 is a recessive mutation in a single nuclear gene. [[FIGURE]]  Regulation of Stress-Responsive Gene Expression in hos10-1 Plants. Northern hybridizations revealed that, without stress, there was no detectable RD29A transcript in hos10-1 or wild-type plants (FIG-REF). Induction of the endogenous RD29A, of the introduced luciferase gene, and of COR15A, ADH, and KIN1 genes by cold was more rapid in hos10-1 than in wild type (FIG-REF). After ABA or NaCl treatment, the expression of the above genes was slightly higher in hos10-1 than wild type (FIG-REF). The steady-state transcript levels of P5CS1 (FIG-REF) and of the cold-specific transcription factor genes CBF1, CBF2, and CBF3 (FIG-REF) were virtually not altered in hos10-1. [[FIGURE]] Analysis of Affymetrix near-full genome GeneChip arrays showed that, compared with wild-type plants, the expression levels of only six genes were higher by at least 2-fold in the hos10-1 plants after 24 h of cold treatment (Table 1, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). There were also only six genes with lower expression in hos10-1 by at least 2-fold compared with wild-type plants (Table 2, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). The altered expression of three randomly selected genes (Atlg75830, At3g49620, and At5g01600) from the microarray tables was confirmed by RT-PCR analysis (FIG-REF). This number of genes is unusually low compared with estimated targets of other transcription factors but could reflect the limited types of conditions used in our experiments.  hos10-1 Plants Are Defective in Cold Acclimation. Non-cold-acclimated young (≈3-week-old) plants of wild type could tolerate lower temperatures than hos10-1 plants (FIG-REF). When acclimated at 4°C for 8 d, the majority of the wild-type plants tolerated freezing temperatures as low as –8°C. However, <2% of the hos10-1 mutant plants survived freezing at –2°C, and none (nonacclimated or acclimated) survived below –2°C (FIG-REF). With or without cold acclimation, detached leaves of hos10-1 plants also showed more injury than wild type and were unable to increase their freezing tolerance significantly when measured by electrolyte leakage (CITATION) (FIG-REF). Thus, plants carrying the hos10-1 mutation are extremely sensitive to freezing temperatures and are unable to acclimate to the cold. [[FIGURE]]  hos10-1 Mutant Plants Are Hypersensitive to NaCl. The hos10-1 seedlings form shorter roots than wild-type when grown vertically in germination medium (FIG-REF), and their growth was also substantially inhibited by NaCl stress (FIG-REF). The hos10-1 mutant plants accumulated essentially the same amounts of Na+ or K+ compared with wild type with or without NaCl treatment (FIG-REF) (CITATION), indicating that increased sensitivity of hos10-1 plants to these stresses was not due to impaired Na+ homeostasis or impaired K+ acquisition. [[FIGURE]]  hos10-1 Mutant Plants Are Impaired in ABA Biosynthesis Under Dehydration Stress. The hos10-1 mutant plants lost water much faster than wild-type plants during slow dehydration (FIG-REF). This result suggests that, during dehydration, the hos10-1 plants either may not make enough ABA, or their stomata fail to respond to waterdeficit-induced ABA. Under normal, nonstress conditions, hos10-1 and wild type accumulate similar amounts of ABA. However, there is a much smaller rise in ABA accumulation in hos10-1 than in wild-type after PEG-induced dehydration stress (FIG-REF). In contrast, we did not find any substantial difference in ABA accumulation between wild-type and hos10-1 plants during cold acclimation (FIG-REF) at 4°C. The transcript level of NCED3 that encodes a key enzyme in ABA biosynthesis is much less in hos10-1 than in wild-type after PEG-induced dehydration stress (FIG-REF), suggesting that HOS10 controls expression of genes involved in ABA biosynthesis under dehydration stress. [[FIGURE]]  hos10-1 Mutant Plants Flower Early. hos10-1 plants are somewhat smaller than wild type (FIG-REF). Under long-day (16 h of light/8 h of dark) and short-day (8 h of light/16 h of dark) photoperiods, hos10-1 plants flower earlier than wild type (FIG-REF). The vernalization responses of hos10-1 and wild-type plants were the same (FIG-REF). The expression of FLC, a gene encoding a critical flowering time regulator, also is not altered in hos10-1, consistent with its unchanged vernalization response (FIG-REF). hos10-1 plants also have reduced fertility (FIG-REF), and their seeds are more round than wild-type (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]]  Identification of the HOS10 Gene. A DNA fragment flanking the T-DNA insert in hos10-1 mutant plants was obtained by thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR. This sequence was found to match that of the predicted Arabidopsis gene At1g35515. The HOS10 cDNA was cloned by RT-PCR using RNA prepared from wild-type plants. We conducted a complementation test by constitutive expression of HOS10 cDNA under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Twenty of 29 hos10-1 plants transformed with the wild-type HOS10 cDNA cassette exhibited wild-type phenotypes in the T2 generation (FIG-REF). Genetic analyses indicated that additional lines carrying T-DNA inserts in the At1g35515 gene (seed stock nos. SALK_122356, SALK_031231, and SALK_088230) are allelic to hos10-1 (FIG-REF). The expression of HOS10 is disrupted in hos10-1 and the other three alleles of HOS10 (FIG-REF). Excess electrolyte leakage induced by freezing treatments in the other hos10-1 alleles, before and after cold acclimation, showed that they were all defective in cold acclimation (FIG-REF). In addition, plants carrying allelic mutations of hos10-1 flower earlier than do their wild-type background strain (Col-0) (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Comparison of the predicted HOS10 amino acid sequence with those of other gene products revealed that HOS10 shares greatest sequence similarities with R2R3-type MYB transcription factors from Arabidopsis, cotton, rice, and tomato within the R2 or R3 domain (FIG-REF). MYP transcription factors comprise a large gene family in Arabidopsis that are involved in numerous functions, including response to stresses (CITATION, CITATION). The HOS10 gene is constitutively expressed (FIG-REF). HOS10 was fused in-frame to the C terminus of GFP and expressed under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. We found that the GFP–HOS10 fusion protein accumulates in the nucleus with or without low-temperature treatment, consistent with its predicted function as a transcription factor (FIG-REF) (CITATION).
!~MM~!  Isolation of hos10-1 Mutant. Arabidopsis thaliana plants (ecotype C24) expressing the RD29A::LUC transgene (referred to as wild type) were mutagenized with an Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated (strain GV3101) T-DNA (portion of the tumor-inducing plasmid that is transferred to plant cells) transformation with the activation tagging vector pSKI015 (CITATION, CITATION). Seeds from T2 plants were used for screening mutants with altered RD29A::LUC expression in response to low temperature, ABA, and/or osmotic stress by luminescence imaging with a charge-coupled device camera as described in ref. CITATION.  ABA Measurement and Real-Time PCR Analysis of NCED3 Expression. ABA was quantified by using a radioimmuno assay essentially as described in ref. CITATION. For measurement of low water potential-induced ABA accumulation, 5-d-old seedlings grown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium (PhytoTechnology Laboratories, Lenexa, KS) (without addition of sugar) containing 2.5 mM Mes buffer were transferred using nylon mesh overlaid on the agar surface to –1.2-MPa, polyethylene glycol (PEG)-infused plates (CITATION). Control seedlings were transferred to half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium plates. Samples for ABA measurement were collected at 8 h (peak ABA accumulation) and 96 h (steady-state ABA level) after the transfer. For cold treatment, 3-week-old, soil-grown hos10-1 and wild-type plants were transferred to a growth chamber at 4°C under a long-day photoperiod (16 h of light/8 h of dark). ABA content of untreated and cold-treated plants was assayed at the designated time points (see FIG-REF). For real-time PCR analysis, total RNA was extracted from untreated or treated (–1.2-MPa, PEG-infused plates) seedlings with the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). First-strand cDNA synthesized with 1 μg of total RNA was used for the real-time PCR. Real-time PCR analysis of NCED3 expression was performed as described in ref. CITATION by using a Sequence Detection System 7700 instrument (Applied Biosystems). Quantification of NCED3 copy number was conducted by amplifying a 600-bp portion of the NCED3 cDNA containing the Taqman probe-binding site. The primers used were 5′-TCCAGCTCTTCAT T TCCCTA A-3′ (forward) and 5′-CGGCCAT TGAAATAGACCAA-3′ (reverse). The amplified DNA fragment was purified, quantified spectrophotometrically, and diluted appropriately to generate a standard curve for calculation of the copy number of the NCED3 transcript.  RNA Gel Analysis and Microarray Analyses. Wild-type and hos10-1 seedlings were grown on separate halves of the same Murashige and Skoog medium agar plates for 14 d and then left untreated or treated with low temperature, ABA, or NaCl. Total RNA was extracted from whole seedlings, and RNA analysis was conducted as described in ref. CITATION. Total RNA (20 μl) extracted with the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen) from 21-d-old wild-type and hos10-1 seedlings after cold treatment (24 h at 0°C) was used to make biotin-labeled cRNA targets. Microarray analysis (Affymetrix GeneChip array) was performed as described in ref. CITATION.  Cloning of the HOS10 Gene. The genomic DNA fragment flanking the left border of the inserted T-DNA in hos10-1 plants was isolated by thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR and subcloned into the cloning vector pBluscript SK(+) (Stratagene) as described in ref. CITATION. The entire isolated fragment was sequenced. The coding region of HOS10 was amplified by RT-PCR by using primer pair 5′-ACTGGAGCTCATGGGAAGATCACCATGTTGTG-3′ (forward) and 5′-ACGTTCTAGACACACGAGCTAGTAACAAGATC-3′ (reverse). The RT-PCR product was then subcloned into pGEM-T Easy Vector (Promega) and sequenced. The HOS10 was released from the resulting clone 10-133 and cloned into binary vector 99-1 between SacI and XbaI sites, resulting in an expression cassette of HOS10 under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. The construct was introduced into hos10-1 mutant plants through an A. tumefaciens-mediated (strain GV3101) T-DNA transformation. Primary transformants, which were resistant to 50 mg/l hygromycin (Invitrogen), were transferred to soil to grow to maturity. Progenies of these transformants were examined for RD29A::LUC expression and for freezing tolerance.  GFP–HOS10 Fusion Protein Construct. The coding region of HOS10 was amplified from the cDNA clone 10-133 by PCR and cloned in-frame into pEGAD vector between the EcoRI and BamHI sites, and the entire insert and the conjunction regions were sequenced. This construct was then introduced into Arabidopsis wild-type plants by floral dip transformation with Agrobaterium strain GV3101.
