!~ABS~! Auxin signaling relies on ubiquitin ligase SCFTIR1-mediated 26S proteasome-dependent proteolysis of a large family of short-lived transcription regulators, auxin/indole acetic acid (Aux/IAA), resulting in the derepression of auxin-responsive genes. We have shown previously that a subset of Rac GTPases is activated by auxin, and they in turn stimulate auxin-responsive gene expression. We show here that increasing Rac signaling activity promotes Aux/IAA degradation, whereas downregulating that activity results in the reduction of auxin-accelerated Aux/IAA proteolysis. Observations reported here reveal a novel function for these Rac GTPases as regulators for ubiquitin/26S proteasome-mediated proteolysis and further consolidate their role in auxin signaling. Moreover, our study reveals a cellular process whereby auxin induces and Rac GTPases mediate the recruitment of nucleoplasmic Aux/IAAs into proteolytically active nuclear protein bodies, into which components of the SCFTIR1, COP9 signalosome, and 26S proteasome are also recruited.
!~RES~! Increasing the level of Aux/IAA repressors by expression from transgenes suppresses auxin-induced gene expression (CITATION). Using transfected protoplasts, a system used extensively in the study of auxin-regulated repressor proteolysis and gene expression as well as other signaling pathways (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we observed that the expression of representative Aux/IAAs, IAA7 and IAA17, suppressed the NtRac1-stimulated expression of auxin-responsive DR5-GUS (CITATION) (Figure 1B), similar to how they suppressed auxin-induced gene expression (Figure 1A) (CITATION). Moreover, the expression of proteolytically stable mutant forms of these repressors, IAA7(P88L) and IAA17(P88L) (CITATION; CITATION), conferred further reduction in the ability of NtRac1 to stimulate DR5-GUS expression (Figure 1B). It seemed plausible that the Rac GTPase-stimulated auxin-responsive gene expression was mediated by the ability of these small GTPases to promote Aux/IAA protein degradation, thus serving as integral components for auxin-signaled gene derepression via regulated proteolysis. [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether Rac GTPases were indeed intermediaries for auxin-induced Aux/IAA degradation, we explored whether they were capable of activating the 26S proteasome–dependent proteolysis of these repressors. We adopted the use of LUC-Aux/IAA fusion proteins as reporters for Aux/IAA stability (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION) and examined whether Rac GTPases could effect the degradation of IAA7-LUC and IAA17-LUC, two prevalently used representatives for Aux/IAAs. Figures 1C and 1D show that coexpressing wild-type or CA NtRac1 significantly reduced the level of IAA-LUC in auxin-free medium and augmented its auxin-induced reduction in auxin-supplemented medium. Moreover, when included in the transfected protoplast cultures, the 26S proteasome inhibitor MG132 reduced the extent of NtRac1(CA)–induced decline in IAA17-LUC (Figure 1F), similar to its ability to suppress the auxin-induced degradation of IAA-LUCs (CITATION). Because results based on IAA7 and IAA17 were qualitatively similar in these assays and others described below, results based on IAA17 reporters will be shown predominantly in this report. Similar to NtRac1, Arabidopsis Rac GTPases that are active in stimulating auxin-responsive gene expression (CITATION) also stimulated the accelerated decline of IAA17-LUC (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). When one of these Rac GTPases, AtRac1, was examined in more detail, we observed that expression of AtRac1(CA) also stimulated IAA17-LUC degradation in the absence of exogenous auxin and augmented the auxin-accelerated response (Figure 1E). The AtRac1(CA)-stimulated repressor degradation was also sensitive to inhibition by MG132 (Figure 1F). Together, these observations suggest a signal, regulator, and response relationship for auxin, Rac GTPases, and 26S proteasome–dependent Aux/IAA degradation, which then leads to the derepression of auxin-responsive genes. Constitutively GDP-bound forms of small GTPases interfere with endogenous signaling capacity and induce DN effects on downstream pathways (CITATION; CITATION). Coexpression of either NtRac1(DN) or AtRac1(DN) efficiently suppressed the auxin-induced decline of IAA7-LUC and IAA17-LUC in transfected protoplasts (Figures 1C to 1E). Likewise, but in the absence of transgene-expressed Rac GTPases, the expression of GTPase-activating proteins to downregulate Rac signaling counteracted the ability of auxin to accelerate IAA17-LUC degradation (Figure 1G). These observations strongly support the notion that auxin-induced Aux/IAA degradation is dependent on properly regulated Rac signaling activity. Moreover, downregulation of Rac signaling capacity reproducibly enhanced IAA7-LUC and IAA17-LUC activity in transfected protoplasts maintained in the absence of exogenous auxin (Figures 1C to 1E, auxin panels). This suggests that the degradation of Aux/IAAs under endogenous auxin conditions is also dependent on Rac GTPase signaling. That downregulating Rac GTPases counteracts auxin action provides strong evidence for these small GTP binding proteins to be integral components of the auxin-activated 26S proteasome-dependent Aux/IAA proteolysis pathway. Rather than just a homogenous collection of soluble components, specific structural domains are known to be assembled and disassembled in the eukaryotic nucleus in response to demands by different nuclear processes (CITATION, CITATION). As auxin-stimulated proteolysis of Aux/IAAs depends on the interaction of several multimeric protein complexes, SCFTIR1, CSN, and the 26S proteasome (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we were interested in examining whether the auxin-induced process involves nuclear events that could be observed in live cells. To accomplish this, we expressed GFP-labeled Aux/IAA proteins via a dexamethasone (Dex)-regulated promoter (CITATION) (see Supplemental Figure 2B online) in transfected protoplasts so that their fate could be monitored microscopically. Among Dex-IAA17-GFP–transfected protoplast cultures, green fluorescence was readily detected in ∼60 to 75% of all cells after ∼4 to 5 h of Dex induction and in the absence of exogenous auxin (Figure 2B, data bar at left). The IAA17-GFP signal accumulated predominantly in the nuclei (Figure 2A), consistent with Aux/IAAs being nuclear proteins and transcription regulators (CITATION). After Dex withdrawal to minimize continued IAA17-GFP expression and 45 min of incubation in auxin-free medium, the green fluorescence levels in most cells diminished only slightly, reflecting the turnover of IAA17-GFP under endogenous auxin conditions. Typically, ∼50% of all cells still maintained observable levels of IAA17-GFP (i.e., they were IAA17-GFP–positive) (Figures 2A and 2B, 0 μM naphthalene acetic [NAA] data). The addition of auxin to the medium accelerated IAA17-GFP decline in a concentration-dependent manner, reducing the level of IAA17-GFP–positive cells considerably within the same time frame (Figures 2A and 2B). Analogous to its effect on auxin-induced (CITATION) and Rac GTPase–mediated (Figure 1F) IAA17-LUC protein degradation, MG132 also suppressed the auxin-accelerated decline in IAA17-GFP–positive cells (data not shown; see Figure 4B below). Moreover, cells expressing the proteolytically stable IAA17(P88L)-GFP fusion proteins were not appreciably affected by auxin treatment (data not shown; see Figure 4D below). Similar to how they affected IAA7-LUC and IAA17-LUC stability (Figures 1C to 1E), coexpression of NtRac1(CA) (Figure 2C, gray bars) and AtRac1(CA) (Figure 2D, gray bars) also promoted the decline of IAA17-GFP–positive cells in auxin-free medium and augmented the auxin effect when it was provided exogenously. On the other hand, coexpressing their DN variants counteracted the auxin-induced decline in the level of IAA17-GFP–positive cells (Figures 2C and 2D, black bars). Similar observations were made using IAA7-GFP as substrate (data not shown; see Figure 4A below and Supplemental Figure 1B online). Therefore, both N- and C-terminally labeled Aux/IAA proteins are convenient reporters for the auxin-regulated Aux/IAA response in live cells. [[FIGURE]] When IAA17-GFP–expressing protoplasts were observed under high magnification, we noticed that auxin not only accelerated the decline of the overall IAA17-GFP signal, it also induced a signal relocalization within the nucleus. In contrast with the diffuse nucleoplasmic signal seen when cells were cultured in auxin-free medium (Figure 3A, top panel), a considerable percentage (see Figure 4 below) of auxin-treated cells showed discrete green fluorescent particles, referred to as NPBs (Figure 3A, bottom panel, left), even though the overall green fluorescence level within the nuclei declined and eventually disappeared. IAA7-GFP behaved similarly (Figure 3A, bottom panel, right), suggesting that translocation of nucleoplasmic Aux/IAA proteins into these structures is likely to be a common response for these repressors upon auxin treatment. Nucleus-targeted GFP did not respond to auxin treatment and maintained a diffuse nucleoplasmic signal (data not shown; see Figure 7 below). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] IAA17-GFP was an active repressor for DR5-GUS expression (see Supplemental Figure 1B online). Its accumulation in transformed Arabidopsis was extremely low and sporadic (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). When detectable by fluorescence microscopy in root epidermal and cortical cells, IAA17-GFP typically showed a diffuse nucleoplasmic signal (Figure 3B). When treated with auxin, IAA17-GFP–containing NPBs were induced in these cells (Figure 3C), indicating that the auxin-induced formation of repressor molecule–containing NPBs was not an anomaly specific to isolated protoplasts. To better characterize the auxin-induced response of repressor-containing NPB formation, we quantified the localization property of IAA17-GFP in response to exogenous auxin in transfected protoplasts (Figure 4). The distribution of nuclear IAA17-GFP signal was examined at 30 min after Dex withdrawal with or without exogenous auxin. Within an auxin-treated culture, the number of IAA17-GFP–containing NPBs observed in each transformed cell was highly variable, from zero to too many to count, and the size and brightness of individual particles also varied with time. Therefore, we categorized the transfected protoplasts into two major classes, class I being those with diffuse nucleoplasmic signal and class II being those with fluorescent NPBs (Figure 4A; for a more detailed categorization and data distribution within class II cells, see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Class I cells were consistently bright. Class II cells varied in their overall green fluorescence level but invariably showed weaker nucleoplasmic signals than class I cells, suggesting that the IAA17-GFP in these cells had undergone a different extent of proteolysis. In control cultures in which transfected cells expressed IAA17-GFP and were cultured in auxin-free medium, almost 100% of the IAA17-GFP–positive cells maintained a diffuse nuclear fluorescence signal (Figure 4B, class I cells, black data bar). When protoplasts were cultured with exogenous auxin, the level of IAA17-GFP–positive cells declined after 30 min (similar to Figure 3C). However, increasing numbers of the remaining IAA17-GFP–positive cells accumulated fluorescent NPBs in an auxin dosage–dependent manner (Figure 4B, class II cells, light and dark gray data bars). The increase in class II cells was correlated with a decline of cells maintaining nucleoplasmic green fluorescence (Figure 4B, class I cells, light and dark gray bars). As in the case of Aux/IAA degradation (CITATION; CITATION) (see Supplemental Figure 1C online), the formation of IAA17-GFP–containing NPBs was stimulated specifically by exogenous auxin but not by the other hormones tested, including brassinosteroid, gibberellic acid, abscisic acid, cytokinin, and the ethylene precursor aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (Figure 4C). Moreover, this auxin-induced process was apparently dependent on substrates that were vulnerable to auxin-stimulated degradation, because only a low level of the proteolytically stable IAA17(P88L)-GFP was incorporated into NPBs in the presence of exogenous auxin (Figure 4D). Interestingly, MG132 suppressed the auxin-induced relocation of nucleoplasmic IAA17-GFP signal into NPBs (Figure 4B, white data bars), implying that proteolytic subunits of the 26S proteasomes may also be involved in the formation of these substrate-containing protein conglomerates and that these structures may be proteolytically active. Consistent with the possibility that the auxin-induced NPBs may be proteolytically active is the observation that the translocation of nucleoplasmic IAA17-GFP into NPBs was always accompanied by the decline and ultimate disappearance of the IAA17-GFP signal from within these nuclear structures (Figures 5B to 5D). When the IAA17-GFP signal was monitored in individual cells treated with auxin, the decline in the diffuse nucleoplasmic signal followed a considerably faster kinetics than signals in control cells in auxin-free medium (Figures 5A to 5C). The auxin-induced rapid decline in nucleoplasmic IAA17-GFP was accompanied by the appearance of green fluorescent NPBs within the nucleus (Figures 5B to 5D). In many of these cells, the number of NPBs increased with time after auxin addition. The IAA17-GFP intensity within some of these particles increased initially (Figures 5B and 5D, dots 1 and 2), although with time the overall fluorescence signal within these NPBs also declined, eventually to undetectable levels. Nevertheless, tiny NPBs also became visible with time in control, non-auxin-treated cells (Figure 5A), implying that the turnover of Aux/IAA proteins under endogenous auxin conditions also engaged in a similar process, which was apparently amplified and accelerated by auxin. Therefore, these observations reveal that auxin-signaled proteolysis of Aux/IAAs involves a cellular process whereby substrates are recruited from the nucleoplasm into proteolytically active megaprotein complexes, within which they are degraded. [[FIGURE]] To explore whether a signaling relationship exists between auxin and Rac GTPases in the formation of substrate-containing NPBs, the effect of CA and DN Rac GTPases on the auxin-regulated process was assessed and quantified. Coexpressing NtRac1(CA) or AtRac1(CA) stimulated the formation of IAA17-GFP–containing NPBs in a large number of cells, even without exogenous auxin (Figures 6A and 6B). On the other hand, expression of NtRac1(DN) or AtRac1(DN) diminished the ability of auxin to stimulate these NPBs (Figure 6C). Moreover, transiently transformed leaf epidermal cells coexpressing IAA17-GFP and NtRac1(CA) accumulated substrate-containing NPBs in the absence of auxin (Figure 6G), mimicking the auxin-induced response seen in IAA17-GFP–expressing cells in similarly treated leaves (Figure 6F). Therefore, the auxin-induced cellular pathway that assembles substrate molecules into NPBs is also mediated by Rac GTPases. Accordingly, when individual cells coexpressing Dex-induced IAA17-GFP and NtRac1(CA) (Figures 6D and 6E) or AtRac1(CA) (see Supplemental Figure 5 online) maintained in auxin-free medium were followed for the time course of IAA17-GFP signal distribution, the decline of nucleoplasmic IAA17-GFP signal, the appearance of fluorescent NPBs, and the subsequent disappearance of fluorescent signals from within these structures occurred more prominently and rapidly than in control cells (Figure 5A). [[FIGURE]] The current model of auxin-induced Aux/IAA protein proteolysis suggests that these transcriptional regulators interact with the F-box protein TIR1 and are then tagged for degradation by the SCFTIR1 complex (CITATION; CITATION). CSN interacts with cullin and Rbx subunits of SCF E3 ligases and mediates multiple SCF-dependent processes, including auxin signaling (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Together with our observations that the level of GFP-labeled Aux/IAAs declined from within NPBs (Figures 5 and 6), these data suggest that not only substrate molecules but also components of SCFTIR1, CSN, and 26S proteasomes coexist in these auxin-induced nuclear structures. When TIR1-YFP, YFP-Rbx1, ASK2-YFP, and CUL1-YFP were expressed alone, predominant nucleoplasmic signals were observed among a low YFP signal in the cytosol, and auxin did not noticeably alter these localization properties (Figure 7A, left column). When IAA17-CFP was coexpressed with each of these YFP-labeled SCFTIR1 components, they all became colocalized with IAA17-CFP in NPBs in auxin-supplemented medium (Figure 7A). The localization of selected subunits of CSN and 26S proteasome core particle (CP) was also examined. Like the SCFTIR1 components, YFP-labeled CSN3, CSN5, CSN7, and CSN8, YFP-CP-α1, and YFP-CP-β2 localized predominantly in the nucleoplasm (Figures 7B and 7C, left columns), with a low level of the protein remaining in the cytosol when each was expressed alone. When coexpressed with IAA17-CFP, all of these YPF-labeled proteins were recruited to colocalize with these substrates in NPBs (Figures 7B and 7C). On other hand, nucleus-targeted YFP, CFP, and GFP were not recruited into NPBs under similar conditions when IAA17-CFP, IAA17-YFP, and IAA17-dsRFP were coexpressed, respectively (Figure 7D). Because CSN and the 26S proteasome are known to exist as protein complexes in vivo (CITATION; CITATION), the presence of selected components of these complexes in the substrate-containing NPBs and the fact that the NPBs are proteolytically active (Figures 5 and 6) suggest that in all likelihood a majority, if not all, of the constituents necessary to support the ubiquitination/26S proteasome activity are present in these megaprotein structures. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! cDNAs for Arabidopsis thaliana proteins were obtained by RT-PCR from seedling mRNAs. Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) NtRac1 cDNAs were described previously (CITATION). Mutagenesis and chimeric gene construction were performed using PCR-based methods (CITATION). The backbone vector used to clone various chimeric genes is shown in Supplemental Figure 2A online. Arabidopsis and tobacco (SR1) protoplast preparation and transfection followed previously described procedures (CITATION) and yielded similar results; the source of protoplasts for each experiment is indicated in the figure legends. NAA, a commonly used auxin, was used as exogenous auxin. Briefly, 0.2 mL of protoplast suspension (∼2 × 105 cells) was transfected with DNA for various constructs (10 μg each). For internal reference genes, 5 μg of 35S-LUC or 1 μg of Ubi10-GUS was used in combination with the reporter genes DR5-GUS or IAA7/17-LUC, respectively. Reporter activity is shown relative to activity from these internal standards to account for differences in transfection efficiency and cell recovery. After transfection, cells were cultured in protoplast medium (K3 + 0.4 M sucrose) under different conditions, as indicated in the figures. In transfections that involved chimeric genes expressed from a Dex-inducible promoter (CITATION) (for data shown in Figures 1F, 2, 3A, and 4 to 6⇑⇑; see also Supplemental Figure 2B online), transfected protoplasts were cultured overnight (∼14 h) in auxin-free K3 medium. Dex (10 μM) was added to induce IAA17-GFP the next morning. After Dex treatment (4 to 5 h) and removal, protoplasts were cultured with or without auxin for defined periods of time as indicated in the figures and text. When used, the 26S proteasome inhibitor MG132 (2.5 μM) was added to protoplasts during the last hour of Dex treatment and was included for the duration of culturing time that followed Dex withdrawal. When other hormones were examined, they were also added at the time of Dex withdrawal. Tobacco leaf epidermal cells were transiently transformed by Dex-IAA17-GFP alone or together with 35S-NtRac1(CA) using agroinfiltration according to CITATION. Arabidopsis was transformed by 35S-IAA17-GFP using the floral dip method (CITATION). GUS and LUC assays followed previously described procedures (CITATION). All biochemical analyses were repeated at least three times with comparable results, and the data presented are averages of triplicate assays for each condition in one representative experiment. Observations were made on a Nikon Eclipse E800 microscope (Nikon, Tokyo, Japan), and images were captured with a SPOT camera. Excitation and emission filters Ex460-500/DM505/BA510-560, Ex426-446/DM455/BA460-500, Ex490-510/DM515/BA520-550, and Ex516/10/DM575/BA590 (from Nikon) were used for GFP, CFP, YFP, and dsRFP (CITATION), respectively. To tally the number of GFP-positive cells among transfected cultures (Figure 2), protoplasts were observed under the ×10 objective. The ×100 objective was used to observe localization patterns within the nuclei. Conditions used to monitor the localization and decline kinetics of IAA17-GFP in transfected protoplasts were as follows. IAA17-GFP was expressed by Dex induction (10 μM for 4 to 5 h). For auxin-treated cells, 20 μM NAA was added to an aliquot of the transfected culture after Dex withdrawal. Dex withdrawal minimized the contribution from continued gene expression to the substrate pool. Cells were observed immediately with the ×100 objective. The nucleus of the cell of interest was photographed as soon as it was located, usually within 1 min after auxin addition, and these are designated the 0-min images in Figures 5A, 5B, and 6D. Observations were made at intervals over the next 30 to 40 min as indicated in the figures. To examine the effect of Rac GTPases on IAA17-GFP localization and decline, protoplasts were cotransfected with Dex-IAA17-GFP and 35S-NtRac1(CA) or AtRac1(CA). Cells that had not yet or had just begun to show NPB formation were followed after Dex withdrawal and resuspension in auxin-free medium as described above. Images were made over the course of 15 to 60 min, depending on the rapidity of signal decline. For both sets of experiments, images at later time points were captured with the same exposure conditions as the 0-min images and were not photographically enhanced, so they reflect relative fluorescence intensity in each nucleus over time. IAA17-GFP levels were monitored by fluorescence signal intensity (as pixels) in the nucleoplasm (designated with asterisks in Figures 5B and 6D) and at the NPBs (designated by numbers in the figures). Cells expressing IAA17-GFP and not treated with auxin served as controls for both sets of experiments.
