!~ABS~! Stomata, dynamic pores found on the surfaces of plant leaves, control water loss from the plant and regulate the uptake of CO2 for photosynthesis [CITATION]. Stomatal aperture is controlled by the two guard cells that surround the stomatal pore [CITATION]. When the two guard cells are fully turgid, the pore gapes open, whereas turgor loss results in stomatal closure. In order to set the most appropriate stomatal aperture for the prevailing environmental conditions, guard cells respond to multiple internal and external signals [CITATION]. Although much is known about guard-cell signaling pathways [CITATION], rather little is known about how changes in gene expression are involved in the control of stomatal aperture [CITATION]. We show here that AtMYB61 (At1g09540), a gene encoding a member of the Arabidopsis thaliana R2R3-MYB family of transcription factors, is specifically expressed in guard cells in a manner consistent with involvement in the control of stomatal aperture. Gain-of-function and loss-of-function mutant analyses reveal that AtMYB61 expression is both sufficient and necessary to bring about reductions in stomatal aperture with consequent effects on gas exchange. Taken together, our data provide evidence that AtMYB61 encodes the first transcription factor implicated in the closure of stomata.
!~RES~! Recently we found that misexpression of AtMYB61, which encodes an R2R3-MYB transcription factor, was both necessary and sufficient to explain aspects of the phenotype of the Arabidopsis thaliana mutant de-etiolated3 (det3) [CITATION]. Because the det3 mutant had impaired stomatal function [CITATION], we hypothesized that proper regulation of AtMYB61 activity might be necessary for proper stomatal function. As a first step in testing this hypothesis, AtMYB61 expression was tracked in transgenic plants harboring a transgene comprised of a translational fusion between the AtMYB61 gene and a reporter gene encoding β-glucuronidase or Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP). Previously, AtMYB61 expression was observed in developing vasculature and developing seeds [CITATION]. Expression in both of these tissues was transient—expression was only observed in particular cell types at specific stages of development [CITATION]. Detailed examination of the localization of GFP expression controlled by AtMYB61 regulatory sequences revealed that AtMYB61 was also expressed in guard cells (CITATIONA). In contrast with the transient expression observed previously [CITATION], AtMYB61 expression in guard cells was observed throughout the lifetime of the plant. The localization of AtMYB61 uniquely in guard cells raises the possibility that AtMYB61 functions as a transcriptional regulator of stomatal function. Infrared thermography can be used as a proxy indicator of stomatal function because plants with stomata that are more closed lose less thermal energy by evaporative cooling and, therefore, register as being warmer by thermography [CITATION]. Conversely, plants whose stomata are more open should be cooler [CITATION]. Consequently, infrared thermography was used to compare thermal energy emission in gain-of-function mutants (MYB61OE), loss-of-function mutants (myb61), and wild-type (WT) plants (CITATION A). MYB61OE plants were generated by constitutive overexpression of the AtMYB61 coding sequence under the control of a tandem duplication of the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus 35S promoter. The myb61 loss-of-function mutants were identified from collections of insertionally mutagenized A. thaliana plants. Thermography revealed that MYB61OE plants were approximately 0.5°C warmer than WT plants, whereas myb61 plants were approximately 0.5°C cooler than WT plants (CITATIONA). The findings with thermography suggest that constitutive AtMYB61 expression results in more-closed stomata and that loss of AtMYB61 activity results in more-open stomata. Examination of stomatal aperture in epidermal peels of A. thaliana leaves showed that, relative to WT plants, MYB61OE plants had smaller stomatal apertures; in contrast, myb61 mutants had larger stomatal apertures (CITATION). These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that AtMYB61 is both necessary and sufficient to partially close stomata. The role of AtMYB61 in regulating stomatal aperture appeared to be independent of ABA, a well-established modulator of stomatal aperture (CITATION). As in WT plants, stomatal closure in AtMYB61 gain-of-function and loss-of-function mutants was responsive to increasing concentrations of ABA. These data are in contrast to the situation in well-known ABA-signaling mutants, such as ost1, which exhibit marked reductions in stomatal sensitivity to applied ABA [CITATION]. The fact that AtMYB61 mutants remained responsive to ABA suggests that the pathway through which AtMYB61 regulates stomatal aperture is distinct from the signaling pathway involving ABA. Stomatal aperture impinges on whole-plant physiological processes, including the uptake of CO2 for photosynthesis and loss of water vapor for evaporative cooling [CITATION]. Consequently, mutants with altered stomatal function should differ from WT plants with respect to stomatal conductance (gs). The gain-of-function MYB61OE mutants had a decreased gs relative to WT plants (CITATIONC), which is consistent with these plants having an average decrease in stomatal aperture. Conversely, myb61 mutants had an increased gs relative to WT plants, consistent with these plants having an average increase in stomatal aperture. The relative differences in gs between WT plants and the mutants were retained regardless of whether the plants were grown under conditions of normal or low relative humidity (CITATIONC). The mutant and WT plants were all clearly responsive to changes in evaporative demand and showed a decrease in gs Nevertheless, relative to WT plants, MYB61OE plants still had the lowest gs, and myb61 mutants had the highest gs. This shows that the response mediated by AtMYB61 is retained independently of atmospheric humidity. Thus, AtMYB61 does not appear to impinge upon ABA- or evaporative-demand-mediated control of stomatal aperture, raising the possibility that it is involved in another pathway that modulates stomatal aperture. Stomatal aperture is well known to vary over diurnal cycles [CITATION]. Stomata tend to be open during the day and tend to be closed at night. In wild-type plants, one can observe this trend simply by shifting light-adapted plants to dark conditions (CITATIONA). If AtMYB61 activity controls stomatal aperture, the reduction in stomatal aperture when light-adapted plants are moved into the dark should be altered in AtMYB61 mutants. Consistent with this hypothesis, myb61 mutants did not close their stomata to as great an extent as wild-type plants in response to darkness. Again this is in contrast to the situation with the ost1 mutant, which exhibits wild-type changes in stomatal aperture in response to a light-to-dark transition [CITATION]. Interestingly, because light-adapted MYB61OE mutants had stomata that were already more closed than those in wild-type plants, they did not exhibit as dramatic a change in response to darkness as did wild-type plants. In fact, MYB61OE mutants and wild-type plants had the same stomatal aperture in the dark, suggesting that the MYB61OE mutants had achieved the maximum average closure. Importantly, WT plants, myb61 mutants, and MYB61OE mutants were all significantly different (p < 0.02) in their dark-induced stomatal-closure response. Together, these observations suggest that AtMYB61 is necessary and sufficient to account for a proportion of the changes in stomatal aperture in response to light-to-dark transitions, as might occur diurnally. These data suggest that AtMYB61 is involved in the dark-induced stomatal-closure signaling pathway. However, it is possible that AtMYB61 plays a second, non-signaling role in stomatal closure. Under steady-state conditions, myb61 stomata are more open and MYB61OE stomata more closed than wild-type stomata (CITATION). Given that AtMYB61 is required for the deposition of pectin in the testa of seeds [CITATION], and that cell wall pectins have been shown to be important for stomatal movement [CITATION], it is possible that the altered stomatal apertures in MYB61OE and myb61 mutants may reflect altered structural properties of the guard-cell wall. Nevertheless, if this is the case, this role is in addition to the signaling role apparent in dark-induced closure but absent in guard-cell ABA and humidity signaling. If AtMYB61 is involved in the light-to-dark transition in stomatal aperture, its expression also might be expected to vary in a manner consistent with these trends. To test this hypothesis, diurnal changes in AtMYB61 transcript abundance were examined with reverse transcriptase (RT) PCR on RNA extracted from leaves at a stage in development when AtMYB61 expression was limited to stomata. On the basis of RT-PCR, AtMYB61 transcript abundance was greatest in the middle of the dark phase and decreased notably in the light (CITATIONB). Consistent with these observations, when plants expressing GFP under the control of AtMYB61 regulatory sequences were exposed to continuous light, GFP was no longer detectable (CITATIOND). When these same plants were moved into the dark, GFP could be observed in the stomata again (CITATIONE). Notably, treatment of plants grown in the light for 72 hr with other stimuli known to induce stomatal closure did not result in expression of GFP. These treatments included spraying the plants with 100 μM ABA, watering plants with 400 mM NaCl, or depriving plants of water for 3 days (data not shown). The results presented herein support the hypothesis that AtMYB61 is both necessary and sufficient to decrease stomatal aperture. The fact that AtMYB61 mutants still respond to ABA and that the responses to ABA and the mutations appear to regulate stomatal dynamics independently suggests that AtMYB61 regulation of stomatal aperture acts in parallel with other stomatal-closure mechanisms that are invoked by the ABA signaling pathway (CITATION ). Similarly, AtMYB61-mediated regulation of stomatal aperture appears to act in parallel with mechanisms that close stomata in response to a reduction in relative humidity; such mechanisms almost certainly have an ABA component. Based on the changes in the expression of AtMYB61 in the light versus the dark, we propose that AtMYB61 regulates stomatal aperture in response to diurnal signals (CITATION). Given that AtMYB61 expression is sucrose regulated [CITATION], that there are significant diurnal fluctuations in sucrose concentration in guard cells [CITATION], and that these diurnal fluctuations are predicted to function not only as osmoregulators but also as signals in guard-cell function [CITATION], it is appealing to suggest that sucrose may be the diurnal signal that modulates AtMYB61 expression in guard cells. Future studies should interrogate the upstream regulatory machinery that modulates the timing and localization of AtMYB61 expression relative to stomatal aperture. Overexpression of AtMYB61, which decreases stomatal aperture, may prove a useful strategy for improving how efficiently plants that are grown under water-limiting conditions use water if such stomatal closure is non-limiting to photosynthesis. Given that MYB61OE plants also respond to ABA, a well-known drought signal, or to a decrease in relative humidity, these plants might enjoy the advantages of both constitutive and induced protection against water-limiting conditions. AtMYB61 overexpression might be employed as a drought-resistance strategy for the growth of crop plants in arid regions. The link between the involvement of AtMYB61 in lignification [CITATION], testa mucilage formation [CITATION], and changes in stomatal aperture is not obvious. It appears that AtMYB61 regulates processes related to the acquisition and allocation of carbon, perhaps by balancing carbon supply with demand. The mechanisms underpinning how AtMYB61 mediates these opposing processes warrant further investigation. To the best of our knowledge, AtMYB61 is the only example of a transcription factor that reduces stomatal aperture, although ectopic expression of the transcription factor ABI3 in guard cells affects stomatal movement [CITATION]. Recently, AtMYB60, a gene encoding another R2R3-MYB family member, was found to increase stomatal aperture in response to diurnal cues (Cominelli et al., this issue [CITATION]), underlining the importance of MYB transcription factors in this mode of regulation of stomatal function. The evolution of transcription-factor-encoding genes such as AtMYB61 would have conferred a significant advantage to land plants as they colonized a terrestrial environment [CITATION]. Evolution of a transcriptional regulator that closes stomata, like AtMYB61, would have enabled plants to reap the benefits of having stomata for carbon uptake while limiting the extent of water loss. Such genes continue to be of paramount importance today, not only because they allow plants to adapt to changes in light, carbon, and water availability but because they shape the flux of carbon and water through entire ecosystems [CITATION]. Thus, AtMYB61 is an example of a key evolutionary innovation in the regulation of stomatal function and is likely to continue to impinge not only on physiological process but also on global-scale phenomena such as the carbon cycle.
!~MM~! Wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana seeds (Col-0) were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC). Transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing AtMYB61 (overexpressor, OE) were generated as described previously [CITATION]. Arabidopsis mutants that had insertional mutations in the coding sequence of AtMYB61 (knockout, KO) were identical to those described previously [CITATION]. KO allele-1 was isolated independently for this study and found to be allelic to that described previously (myb61-1) [CITATION]; allele-2 [CITATION] was generously provided by Dr. M.W. Bevan (John Innes Centre, Norwich, UK). The AtMYB61::GFP (61PN::GFP) fusion was constructed based on the 61PN::GUS construct described previously [CITATION]. The GUS coding sequence was replaced by the GFP coding sequence in order to generate the 61PN::GFP construct, which was then stably transformed into Arabidopsis plants by the vacuum-infiltration-aided Agrobacterium tumefaciens transformation method ([CITATION] as modified in [CITATION]). Arabidopsis seeds were grown in soil comprising Levington’s Universal soil and Vermiperl vermiculite (2:1). Plants were grown in temperature-controlled growth rooms at 22°C with an average light intensity of 130 μmol/m2s, at day lengths indicated in the figure captions.
