!~ABS~! In this study, we characterize the evolutionarily conserved TOUGH (TGH) protein as a novel regulator required for Arabidopsis thaliana development. We initially identified TGH as a yeast two-hybrid system interactor of the transcription initiation factor TATA-box binding protein 2. TGH has apparent orthologs in all eukaryotic model organisms with the exception of the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. TGH contains domains with strong similarity to G-patch and SWAP domains, protein domains that are characteristic of RNA binding and processing proteins. Furthermore, TGH colocalizes with the splicing regulator SRp34 to subnuclear particles. We therefore propose that TGH plays a role in RNA binding or processing. Arabidopsis tgh mutants display developmental defects, including reduced plant height, polycotyly, and reduced vascularization. We found TGH expression to be increased in the amp1-1 mutant, which is similar to tgh mutants with respect to polycotyly and defects in vascular development. Interestingly, we observed a strong genetic interaction between TGH and AMP1 in that tgh-1 amp1-1 double mutants are extremely dwarfed and severely affected in plant development in general and vascular development in particular when compared with the single mutants.
!~RES~! TGH (At5g23080) is a previously uncharacterized protein from Arabidopsis. The TGH open reading frame is composed of 16 exons and encodes a 931–amino acid protein with a calculated molecular mass of 104.9 kD (Figure 1A). BLASTP searches using full-length TGH protein reveal that TGH is not related to any other Arabidopsis protein. However, proteins clearly related to TGH are present in rice (Oryza sativa) and in many eukaryotic model organisms, including all model animal species and the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe, although not in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Figures 1B and 1C). Since, with the exception of budding yeast, each organism subjected to analysis was found to contain exactly one protein with obvious similarity to TGH, we assume that these proteins arose from one common ancestor and that they are TGH orthologs. The TGH orthologs share highest sequence similarity within their N termini, and these similarities range from 69% sequence identity (83% similarity) between Arabidopsis and rice TGH to 52% identity (72% similarity) between Arabidopsis and Caenorhabditis elegans TGH, the most distantly related TGH identified in our analyses (Figure 1B). Since the N-terminal domain is specific to Arabidopsis TGH and its orthologs, we named it the TGH domain (Figures 1A and 1B). [[FIGURE]] In addition to the highly conserved and specific TGH domain, the TGH orthologs contain two recognizable conserved protein domains, a G-patch and a Suppressor-of-white-apricot (SWAP) domain (Figures 1A, 1C, and 1D) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The G-patch is defined by a series of conserved Gly residues, and G-patches are exclusively found in proteins with a predicted or known role in RNA binding or RNA processing (CITATION) (Figure 1C). The SWAP domain is a conserved domain with a presumed function in RNA binding that was first identified in the splicing regulator SWAP from Drosophila melanogaster (CITATION; CITATION) (Figure 1D). The G-patch and the SWAP domains have unknown biochemical properties or functions. Nevertheless, these domains have only been found together in proteins with a role in RNA binding and RNA processing, inviting the hypothesis that SWAP and G-patch domain-containing proteins and therefore also TGH may play a role in these processes (CITATION). With regard to the G-patch, we also noted that several conserved residues of the G-patch are not conserved in Arabidopsis and rice TGH but in their animal counterparts (Figure 1C). It can therefore not be ruled out that the G-patch has lost or changed functionality during plant evolution. The G-patch domain is often accompanied by the repetitive RS (Arg, Ser) and RGG (Arg, Gly, Gly) sequences (CITATION; CITATION). RS and RGG sequences are found in splicing regulators, such as SR proteins, and have been proposed to mediate protein–RNA or protein–protein interactions (CITATION). While canonical RS and RGG sequences are absent from TGH, the domain comprising the C-terminal 170 amino acids of Arabidopsis TGH is significantly enriched in basic (53; 31%) and acidic (36; 21%) amino acids and in Ser residues (36; 21%). This domain was therefore designated KRDES (Lys, Arg, Asp, Glu, Ser) domain (Figure 1A; data not shown). The KRDES domain seems to be unique to Arabidopsis TGH. Our interest in TGH was initially triggered by its identification as an interactor of the general transcription factor TBP2. We found that the TGH full-length protein and the TGH C-terminal 245 amino acids, including the KRDES domain, interact with Arabidopsis TBP2 (At1g55520) in the yeast two-hybrid system (Figure 1E). TBPs recognize the TATA-box in eukaryotic gene promoters, where they initiate the assembly of other general transcription factors to form the preinitiation complex, a prerequisite for RNA polymerase II binding (CITATION; CITATION). TBPs interact with transcriptional coactivators, such as the TBP-associated factors (TAFs), which in turn serve as interaction platforms for transcription activators (CITATION; CITATION). To make an allusion to the TBP-interacting TAF proteins, the hitherto uncharacterized TBP-interacting protein At5g23080 was designated TGH. Numerous studies show that the interactions between TBP and transcriptional regulators, such as the TAFs, are essential for transcriptional activation (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We therefore examined whether TGH functions as a transcriptional regulator. To this end, we fused the full-length TGH protein as well as its C terminus including the KRDES domain to the DNA binding domain of the GAL4 transcription factor. We found that the TGH full-length protein as well as the TGH C terminus can activate gene expression from a GAL4-responsive reporter in yeast and in transiently transformed tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) mesophyll protoplasts (Figures 1F and 1G). It could therefore be envisioned that TGH regulates gene expression as a transcriptional activator or as a regulator of another process that occurs cotranscriptionally and that possibly requires TBP2 interaction. The observed yeast two-hybrid interaction with TBP2 and the presence of several predicted nuclear targeting sequences within the KRDES domain (RKKR, RRRKR, KKRRR, and RRESSREKRSSHKKHS) are suggestive of a nuclear localization (CITATION). To study the subcellular localization of TGH, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis lines expressing TGH:green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions. Transgenic plants transformed with construct TGH:TGH:GFP express the genomic TGH gene fragment fused to GFP under control of a 1-kb TGH promoter fragment. Transgenic plants transformed with 35S:TGH:GFP express the TGH cDNA fused to GFP under control of the constitutive 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus. Both constructs produce a functional TGH:GFP fusion protein that is able to rescue the mutant phenotype (Figures 2M to 2P; see Supplemental Table 1 online). In transgenic lines transformed with either construct, we found TGH:GFP to accumulate exclusively in the nucleus of all cells amenable to fluorescence microscopy (Figures 3A to 3C). When we analyzed TGH:GFP localization in transiently transformed Arabidopsis protoplasts, we noticed that the fusion protein is present in subnuclear particles that varied in size and shape in different cells examined, regardless of the TGH:GFP construct used (Figures 3D and 3G). To study the identity of these subnuclear particles, we conducted colocalization experiments between the TGH:GFP constructs and SRp34:DsRED as well as between the TGH:GFP constructs and RSZ33:DsRED. SRp34 is one of two proteins present in Arabidopsis closely related to human SPLICING FACTOR2/ALTERNATIVE SPLICING FACTOR, which is required for pre-mRNA processing (CITATION). RSZ33 is a plant-specific protein with a predicted role in RNA binding and processing (CITATION; CITATION). Both SRp34 and RSZ33 are known to localize to distinct particles within the nucleus. As observed with the TGH:GFP contructs, SRp34:DSRED and RSZ33:DsRED proteins also accumulate in subnuclear particles that had different sizes and shapes in different cells examined. Regardless of these differences in size and shape, our studies revealed colocalization of the TGH:GFP constructs with SRp34:DsRED in all of the cells examined (Figures 3D to 3F) but not of the TGH:GFP constructs with RSZ33:DsRED (Figures 3G to 3I). We therefore propose that the TGH protein functions close to the Arabidopsis splicing regulator SRp34. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To gain insight into the biological function of TGH, we examined two TGH T-DNA insertion mutants, namely SALK_053445 (tgh-1) and GABI_774H04 (tgh-2) (Figure 2A). The T-DNA insertions are located at the end of intron 11 and at the beginning of exon 12, respectively (Figure 2A). Plants homozygous for the TGH T-DNA insertions were isolated by PCR-based genotyping from a large segregating population (Figures 2B to 2E). Plants homozygous for both TGH gene insertions displayed identical phenotypes that clearly distinguished them from wild-type and hemizygous segregants (Figures 2B to 2E). In general terms, adult tgh mutant plants have a reduced stature and significantly smaller lanceolate leaves (Figures 2C to 2F). Elongation defects could also be observed in the anthers of tgh mutant flowers, which fail to elongate and produce pollen (Figures 2G and 2H). At the seedling stage, tgh mutant seedlings are recognizable by developmental defects, including triple cotyledons, altered cotyledon shape, and reduced elongation growth in dark-grown seedlings (Figures 2I to 2L; data not shown). The triple cotyledon phenotype is, however, not fully penetrant (e.g., only 7 of 362 progeny seedlings of a TGH/tgh-1 parent line displayed the triple cotyledon phenotype corresponding to a penetrance of 7.7%). Due to the almost complete infertility of tgh mutants, all subsequent analyses were performed with segregants of heterozygous TGH/tgh-1 and TGH/tgh-2 plants. Altered cotyledon number as observed in the tgh mutants is frequently associated with defects in cotyledon and leaf vascular initiation (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We therefore examined vascularization in cotyledons and leaves of tgh-1 and tgh-2 mutants and found that both tgh mutant alleles form an incomplete vascular system (Figure 4). While wild-type cotyledons typically have a simple interconnected vascular system, tgh mutant cotyledons have an imperfect vascular system with differentiated but frequently unconnected vascular strands (Figures 4A and 4D). The defects in vascularization are also detectable in leaves where second and third order vascular strands often remain unconnected in tgh mutants, while they are almost always interconnected in the wild type (Figures 4B and 4E). While the vascular network is altered in the tgh mutants, no obvious defects were observed with respect to vascular strand positions and vascular strand alignment. [[FIGURE]] The morphological examination of cleared tissue only allows the visualization of differentiated vascular tissue but not the visualization of provascular cells. The expression of the Arabidopsis gene HOMEOBOX GENE 8 (AtHB-8) as monitored with the AtHB-8:β-glucuronidase (GUS) transgene is strong in provascular cells and reduced after vascularization is complete (CITATION). To differentiate between defects at the level of vascular initiation and vascular differentiation, we examined the expression of AtHB-8:GUS in the tgh-1 mutant. We found that GUS staining in tgh-1 mutant embryonic and mature cotyledons delineates the interrupted vascularization pattern observed in the clearing sections (Figures 4C and 4F). Taken together, this shows that tgh mutants have defects in the initiation of vascular development as determined by the expression of the AtHB-8:GUS reporter construct. To examine whether TGH gene expression can be correlated with its apparent role in vascular development, we generated transgenic lines that express the GUS reporter under control of a 1021-bp TGH promoter fragment. The same promoter fragment had been used in the TGH:TGH:GFP expression construct, which was able to rescue the tgh mutant phenotype. Analysis of TGH expression by virtue of GUS reporter activity allowed us to reproducibly detect strong GUS expression in the cotyledons of embryos, in the vasculature of cotyledons and leaves, in young meristematic tissue, in trichomes, and in the pistil (Figures 4G to 4L). Hence, in this analysis TGH expression in the vascular system can be correlated with its role in vascular development. Vascular differentiation requires auxin transport and auxin signal transduction (CITATION; CITATION). The importance of auxin transport for vascularization is supported by the observation that Arabidopsis mutants of auxin transport proteins (e.g., pin-formed1 [pin1] and pinoid) or of proteins involved in the proper localization of auxin transport proteins (e.g., gnom) fail to form a proper vascular system (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The importance of auxin signal transduction for vascular development is suggested by the discontinuous vascular system observed in the Arabidopsis mutants monopteros (mp), bodenlos (bdl), and auxin-resistant 6 (axr6) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The current model of auxin signal transduction predicts that these mutants fail to express a subset of auxin-induced genes required for proper vascular development since they lack the transcription activator MP or are unable to degrade the repressor BDL. To examine a possible role for TGH in auxin response, we investigated the possibility that TGH participates in auxin-induced gene expression. To this end, we compared the expression of the three auxin-induced genes GH3, IAA19, and SAUR10 by reverse transcription PCR in tgh-1 mutant and in wild-type seedlings that had been subjected to a 2-h treatment with 5 and 50 μM of the synthetic auxin 2,4-D (Figure 5A). In these analyses, we detected different levels of auxin-induced gene expression for all three genes; however, we failed to detect any obvious differences between the wild type and the tgh-1 mutant (Figure 5A). These data suggest that TGH is not required for auxin-induced gene expression. [[FIGURE]] Next, we examined whether TGH is a downstream target of the gene expression system that is composed of MP, BDL, and AXR6 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To this end, we tested whether TGH expression is altered in a loss-of-function allele of the transcriptional activator MP identified in the Salk T-DNA collection, as well as in the bdl and axr6-2 mutants that fail to degrade BDL in response to auxin (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; D. Weijers and G. Jürgens, unpublished data). When we examined TGH gene expression by RT-PCR, we failed to detect any obvious differences in any of the mutants examined when compared with the wild type (Figure 5B). We therefore suggest that TGH acts independently of the BDL, MP, and AXR6 proteins and conclude furthermore that TGH is not a component of the auxin response pathway. Additionally, we examined whether TGH is required for proper auxin transport. Mutants of the putative auxin efflux carrier PIN1 fail to form a proper vascular system (CITATION). We therefore investigated the genetic interaction of TGH and PIN1 in a pin1-3 tgh-1 double mutant. Since this double mutant displayed the additive phenotype of the respective single mutants with respect to plant size, leaf shape, and flower morphology, we conclude that TGH and PIN1 regulate vascular development by independent mechanisms (Figures 5C to 5F). Arabidopsis AMP1 has been identified in several mutant screens (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). amp1 mutants fail to form proper cotyledon and leaf vasculature and frequently produce multiple cotyledons (CITATION; CITATION). Furthermore, amp1 mutants are constitutively photomorphogenic, grow fast, and flower early (CITATION). At least some of the amp1 mutant phenotypes may be explained by the increased cytokinin levels measured in the amp1 mutant resulting in the increased expression of the cell cycle regulator CYCD3 (CITATION; CITATION). AMP1 has homology to N-acetyl-α-linked acidic dipeptidases, and based on this homology, AMP1 has been proposed to participate in the processing of small acidic peptides and folate polyglutamate (CITATION). However, the postulated biochemical role of AMP1 in protein processing as well as its role as a developmental regulator has not been defined yet. To examine a possible link between TGH and AMP1 function, we investigated TGH gene expression in the amp1-1 mutant using RT-PCR. amp1-1 is an ethyl methanesulfonate–induced loss-of-function allele with a base change mutation leading to an early stop codon mutation (CITATION). In our studies, we consistently observed reduced AMP1 expression in the amp1-1 mutant allele, possibly a result of the destabilization of the mutant transcript (Figure 6). Consistent with previous reports, we found CYCD3 expression to be elevated in the amp1-1 mutant, indicative of increased cell cycle activity in the mutant (CITATION). Interestingly, our TGH gene expression analyses also revealed increased TGH expression in the amp1-1 mutant compared with the wild type (Figure 6). We therefore went on to examine the genetic interaction between AMP1 and TGH in amp1-1 tgh-1 double mutants. In the progeny of amp1-1 tgh-1/TGH lines, we identified plants with a new phenotype that was not observed in the parental lines or in the single mutants. In seedlings, this phenotype is characterized by dramatic alterations of cotyledon shape, such as fused cotyledons and the impairment of leaf and shoot growth and differentiation (Figures 7A to 7E, 7L, and 7M). In 2-week-old adult plants, the rosette diameter of these mutants was reduced at least 10-fold (Figures 7N, 7O, inset in 7O, and 7X). By genotyping and gene expression analysis, we could show that these plants represented the amp1-1 tgh-1 double mutant segregants of the amp1-1 tgh-1/TGH lines, and we therefore propose a genetic interaction between TGH and AMP1. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Since amp1-1 and tgh-1 single mutants have defects in vascular initiation, we also examined vascularization in these mutants. We found that vascular initiation is significantly more disturbed in the amp1-1 tgh-1 double mutants than in the respective single mutants (Figures 7F to 7K, 7S, and 7W). For example, in cotyledons and leaves of the amp1-1 tgh-1 double mutants, often only the primary vascular strand but no secondary or tertiary strands differentiated (Figures 7P to 7W). Furthermore, the lack of vascularization in these double mutant plants is accompanied by an inability to form normal leaf blades. We therefore propose that TGH and AMP1 are required for the proper differentiation of the vascular network and normal leaf growth. The amp1-1 mutant has increased cytokinin levels and increased levels of the cytokinin-inducible G1 cell cycle regulator CYCD3 (CITATION) (Figure 6). Since CYCD3 expression has been proposed to be a direct consequence of the amp1-1 mutant's increased cytokinin levels, we reasoned that the observed amp1-1 tgh-1 double mutant phenotype may be a result of the combined effects of increased cytokinin levels and loss of TGH gene function. We therefore examined the effects of cytokinin treatment on the tgh-1 mutant seedlings. However, by treating tgh-1 mutants with different cytokinins and different cytokinin concentrations, we failed to induce phenotypes in the tgh-1 mutant comparable to those observed in the amp1-1 tgh-1 double mutant (data not shown). At the same time, we found CYCD3 expression to be elevated to the same extent in both the amp1-1 and the amp1-1 tgh-1 double mutant, suggesting that TGH does not influence CYCD3 expression (Figure 6). We therefore conclude that the strong amp1-1 tgh-1 double mutant phenotype is not the direct result of cytokinin overproduction or CYCD3 overexpression in the amp1-1 tgh-1 double mutants.
!~MM~! The TGH T-DNA insertion lines SALK_053445 (Columbia background) and GABI_774H04 (Columbia background) were identified in the SIGNAL database (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress) and obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC) and from GABI-KAT at the Max-Planck Institute for Plant Breeding Research (Cologne, Germany), respectively (CITATION; CITATION). To test for the presence of the TGH wild-type gene and the TGH T-DNA insertion, segregants of SALK_053445 were PCR genotyped using combinations of primers flanking the T-DNA insertion site, TGHFW 5′-ATGTTGAGGATGAAGATGTCTATGC-3′ and TGHRV 5′-AGATGAAGCTGATTTGGTGAATGTG-3′, or TGHFW and the T-DNA specific primer LBb1 5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAACT-3′. Segregants of GABI_774H04 were genotyped with TGHFW and TGHRV or TGHRV in combination with the T-DNA–specific GABI primer 5′-ATATTGACCATCATACTCATTGC-3′. The reporter line AtHB-8:GUS was obtained from Giorgio Morelli (Rome, Italy) and crossed to tgh-1/TGH lines. Tissue-specific GUS expression was analyzed in TGH wild-type and mutant segregants of the F2 and F3 progeny as described elsewhere (CITATION; CITATION). The mp allele was derived from the T-DNA insertion line SALK_023812 and was a gift from D. Weijers (Tübingen, Germany). bdl and axr6-2 alleles were previously described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). pin1-3/PIN1 mutant seed were a gift from N. Geldner (Tübingen University, Germany). pin1-3/PIN1 were identified by a ScaI cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequence marker and then crossed with tgh-1/TGH. The resulting F1 plants were genotyped to identify pin1-3/PIN1 tgh-1/TGH lines. The F2 progeny of these lines was then used for phenotype and genotype analyses. amp1-1 (Columbia background) mutant seed were obtained from NASC and crossed to tgh-1/TGH. amp1-1/amp1-1 tgh-1/TGH plants were identified among the F2 progeny based on the amp1-1 phenotype and the genotype of the TGH locus. The F3 progeny of these lines was subjected to phenotype analyses. Phenotypes were linked to the segregating genotypes using PCR analysis as described above. When different ecotypes were combined for genetic crosses, segregating wild-type plants were used as wild-type control. Constructs expressing TGH:GFP fusions were prepared using the Gateway system (Invitrogen). To generate 35S:TGH:GFP, the TGH gene fragment was amplified by PCR using the primers 5′-attB1-TCATGGGGTCAGACGAGGAAGATTTCGTGTTTC-3′ and 5′-attB2-CGTCTCGTCGCCTCTTCTTCTCCCGCCTTGAC-5′ and introduced into pDONR 201. One entry clone was fully sequenced and inserted into the vector 35S-GW-GFP(Kan), a gift from F. Turck (Max-Planck Institute for Plant Breeding Research, Cologne, Germany). To generate TGH:TGH:GFP, a 6.6-kb TGH genomic fragment was amplified by PCR using the primers 5′-attB1-CATGCTCAGGAGCAATCGTCCGTTTATC-3′ and attB2-CGTCTCGTCGCCTCTTCTTCTCCCGCCTTGAC-5′. The fragment was introduced into pDONR 201, and one clone was fully sequenced and then inserted into the vector pGWB8 (a gift from T. Nakagawa, Shimane University, Japan). Twenty stable transgenic lines expressing each TGH:GFP fusion construct were generated and propagated in Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (CITATION). For transient expression, the 35S:TGH:GFP and TGH:TGH:GFP constructs were introduced alone or in combination with the constructs SRp34:DsRED and RSZ33:DsRED (a gift from Z. Lorkovic and A. Barta, Vienna Biocentre, Austria) into Arabidopsis var Columbia suspension culture cells using established procedures (CITATION; CITATION). The DsRED constructs express the respective fusion proteins from the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus. Protein fluorescence was analyzed using a Leica TCS SP2 confocal microscope. Tissue of 7-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings and 3-week-old Arabidopsis plants was fixed for 12 h in an ethanol:acetic acid (6:1) mixture followed by two 30-min washes with 100% ethanol and one wash with 70% ethanol. Tissues were finally cleared with chloral hydrate:glycerol:water (8 g:1 mL:2 mL) for several hours as previously described (CITATION). A previously described yeast two-hybrid system cDNA library was used to perform a library screen with pGBT9/pTBP expressing potato (Solanum tuberosum) TBP (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To this end, full-length pTBP was cloned in frame by ligating a blunt-ended BamHI fragment to the blunt-ended SalI site of the pGBT9 vector. The screen resulted in the isolation of pACT/2-8/5 expressing the C-terminal 245 amino acids of TGH, including its KRDES domain. pACT/TGH was obtained by cloning a BamHI linked full-length TGH cDNA fragment into pACT2. The interaction between full-length TGH and Arabidopsis TBP2 was then confirmed in the yeast two-hybrid system with pGBT9/AtTBP expressing the Arabidopsis TBP2 ortholog (At1g55520) cloned in an identical manner to construct pGBT9/pTBP. A size-fractionated Arabidopsis cDNA library provided by NASC was screened for full-length cDNAs using the TGH cDNA fragment isolated in the yeast two-hybrid system as a probe. Sequence analyses of several full-length cDNAs confirmed the exon-intron predictions for the TGH gene found in the databases and revealed that polyadenylation of TGH mRNAs occurs at two alternative positions 76 and 285 base pairs after the stop codon. pGBT9/TGH containing the full-length TGH gene and pGBT9/KRDES containing the TBP2-interacting TGH fragment originally identified in the yeast two-hybrid system library screen were tested for their ability to transactivate expression of the LacZ reporter gene in the yeast strain HF7C using Galacto-Star (Tropix). The TGH coding sequence and the KRDES fragment present in the original yeast two-hybrid clone were subcloned into the vector pGAL4 and tested as previously described for their ability to transactivate transcription from UAS4xGALLUC in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) mesophyll protoplasts (CITATION; CITATION). A 1021-bp TGH promoter fragment was amplified using 5′-attB1-CATGCTCAGGAGCAATCGTCCGTTTATC-3′ and 5′-attB2-TGTCTTCACCACCGAGACCGAGAGGAGCAG-3′. The fragment was introduced into pDONR 201, fully sequenced, and subsequently cloned into the Gateway compatible pGWB3 vector (a gift from T. Nakagawa). Twenty transgenic lines were established harboring the TGH:GUS transgene. Seedlings and plants were stained for GUS expression using standard procedures (CITATION). Gene expression analyses were performed by RT-PCR. RNA was extracted from plant material using the RNeasy method (Qiagen). Two micrograms of total RNA were used for the reverse transcription reaction with an oligo(dT) primer and Platinum reverse transcriptase as previously described (Invitrogen) (CITATION). TGH gene expression was monitored using the gene-specific primers TGHFW and TGHRV, primers identical to those used for TGH genotyping. Gene expression of auxin-induced genes was monitored using GH3-FW 5′-ATGGAGGAGTCGTTGAACTCTGTG-3′ and GH3-RV 5′-AAGCTCCATTATTGGCGTGAAACTC-3′ for GH3 (At2g23170); IAA19-FW 5′-GTGATGTACCTTGGGGGATGTTTC-3′ and IAA19-RV 5′-AATGAACCAGCTCCTTGCTTCTTG-3′ for IAA19 (At3g15540); SAUR10-FW 5′-CGAAGTCGGTACATCGTTCCTATC-3′ and SAUR10-RV 5′-CATGGAGATAAGAGACCTGAAGAAGA-3′ for SAUR10 (At2g18010). Gene expression of AMP1 and CYCD3 was determined using the primers AMP1-FW 5′-ATGTCACAACCTCTCAC-3′ and AMP1-RV 5′-TCATGTGAAACCTCCTT-3′ for AMP1 and CYCD3-FW 5′-ATGGCTTTAGAAGAGGAGGAAGA-3′ and CYCD3-RV 5′-TTAGCGAGGACTACTACTAAGCAC-3′ for CYCD3 (At3g50070). ACTIN-FW 5′-ATTCAGATGCCCAGAAGTCTTGTTC-3′ and ACTIN-RV 5′-GCAAGTGCTGTGATTTCTTTGCTCA-3′ for ACTIN (At3g18780) were used as a loading control in all cases. All RT-PCR reactions were repeated using independent RNA preparations and reverse transcription reactions. Transcripts were amplified using 28 or 30 amplification cycles as indicated in the text. Each experiment was repeated at least twice with independent RNA preparations. TGH sequence data from this article have been deposited with the GenBank data library under accession number AAR99647. TOUGH (TGH) is registered as a gene class symbol at www.arabidopsis.org. Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for the Arabidopsis genes used in this article are as follows: TGH (At5g23080), AtTBP2 (At1g55520), GH3 (At2g23170), IAA19 (At3g15540), SAUR10 (At2g18010), CYCD3 (At3g50070), and ACTIN (At3g18780). Accessions of the TGH orthologs listed in Figures 1B and 1C are as follows: rice (BAD37703.1), human (NP_060495.2), mouse (NP_080457.1), Drosophila (NP_648669.1), C. elegans (CAA83621.1), N. crassa (EAA31042.1), S. pombe (NP_593626.1), and A. gambiae (NP_593626.1). Accessions of the SWAP domain containing proteins listed in Figure 1D are as follows: rice (BAD37703.1), human (AAN77183.1), mouse (NP_613051.2), Drosophila (AAN77184.1), A. gambiae (EAA11741.1).
