!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana metal tolerance protein 1 (MTP1) of the cation diffusion facilitator family of membrane transport proteins can mediate the detoxification of Zn in Arabidopsis and yeast. Xenopus laevis oocytes expressing AtMTP1 accumulate more Zn than oocytes expressing the AtMTP1 D94A mutant or water-injected oocytes. An AtMTP1-GFP fusion protein localizes to the vacuolar membrane in root and leaf cells. The analysis of Arabidopsis transformed with a promoter-GUS construct suggests that AtMTP1 is not produced throughout the plant, but primarily in the subpopulation of dividing, differentiating and expanding cells. RNA interference-mediated silencing of AtMTP1 causes Zn hypersensitivity and a reduction in Zn concentrations in vegetative plant tissues.
!~RES~! In order to address the transport function of AtMTP1, the AtMTP1 protein or the AtMTP1 D94A mutant protein were expressed in yeast. In the AtMTP1 D94A protein, an aspartate residue, which is strictly conserved in all members of the CDF protein family CITATION and located in the second predicted membrane-spanning segment within the CDF signature sequence, was replaced by an alanine. An analogous mutation of the corresponding residue in the A. halleri MTP1 protein results in the loss of the ability to complement the zinc sensitive zrc1 cot1 double mutant of S. cerevisiae CITATION . As shown before CITATION , the expression of AtMTP1 complemented the Zn sensitivity of the zrc1 cot1 double mutant ( CITATION A). In addition, including several low Zn concentrations revealed that the expression of AtMTP1 D94A exacerbated Zn hypersensitivity of the double mutant ( CITATION A). Both proteins were expressed in yeast cells in comparable amounts ( CITATION B). This suggested that AtMTP1 D94A was not only unable to mediate the detoxification of Zn 2+ in the yeast vacuole, but caused additional stress. To gain more information, we allowed cells to equilibrate in a neutral red solution at alkaline pH, a condition which should allow passive diffusion of the uncharged neutral red molecule, a weak base, and trapping in acidic compartments upon protonation. The less intense red staining of AtMTP1 D94A -expressing yeast cells, when compared with AtMTP1-expressing cells or empty vector transformants, suggests that AtMTP1 D94A expression results in a reduced ability of yeast cells to maintain an acidic vacuolar lumen ( CITATION C). This observation may be due to the leakage of protons through the mutant transporter. Alternatively, another ion, such as Na + , may leak through the transporter and lead indirectly to a depletion of the proton gradient. Next we tested whether Zn accumulation in oocytes injected with MTP1 cRNA differed from Zn accumulation in oocytes injected with MTP 1 D94A cRNA or with water. Oocytes injected with MTP1 cRNA contained on average 1.17 nmol Zn per oocyte after incubation in control medium and 1.25 nmol Zn per oocyte after exposure to the Zn-supplemented medium ( CITATION ). This suggests a net influx of 0.08 nmol Zn per oocyte during exposure to 0.1 mM ZnSO 4 for 30 min. In water-injected and AtMTP 1 D94A -injected oocytes mean Zn concentrations were very similar and amounted to between 1.35 and 1.36 nmol Zn per oocyte for control (no added Zn) oocytes and between 1.01 and 1.02 nmol Zn per oocyte in Zn-exposed oocytes ( CITATION ). This suggests a net efflux of approximately 0.34 nmol Zn per oocyte in control oocytes during exposure to 0.1 mM Zn for 30 min. The apparent net Zn efflux in water or AtMTP 1 D94A -injected oocytes upon exposure to Zn is likely to reflect the induction of an endogenous Zn export activity during exposure to Zn for 30 min. Most probably, this export activity was also present in AtMTP1 -injected oocytes. The correction for MTP1-independent Zn efflux thus results in a total MTP1-dependent Zn influx of 0.42 nmol per oocyte in 30 min. 4 Zn uptake rates could not be determined using shorter exposures because of the limited sensitivity of ICP-OES. It was also not possible to obtain permission to use the radioisotope 65 Zn. CITATION 4 These data are consistent with a significant proportion of the MTP1 protein localizing to the plasma membrane of oocytes in this expression system and mediating the cellular influx of Zn 2+ . Overall Zn concentrations measured in the oocytes were consistent with the previously reported Zn content of 70 ng (1.08 nmol) per oocyte in stage VI CITATION . To determine the subcellular localization of AtMTP1 we localized a transiently expressed fusion protein of an N-terminal GFP moiety and AtMTP1, in protoplasts of A. thaliana ( CITATION A). GFP fluorescence was localized to the vacuolar membrane of transfected protoplasts. To verify these results we generated stable A. thaliana transformants expressing AtMTP1 with an EGFP moiety fused to its C-terminus. The GFP fluorescence signal was localized to the vacuolar membrane in leaf as well as root cells ( CITATION B and C, respectively). These results suggest that AtMTP1 localizes to the vacuolar membrane of plant cells. Two attempts of generating an AtMTP1-specific antibody were unsuccessful. To better understand the in planta function of AtMTP1 we analyzed steady-state MTP1 transcript levels by real-time RT-PCR. As reported earlier CITATION , no induction of AtMTP1 transcripts was observed in response to exposure to Zn in either roots or shoots after exposure for between 2 h and 4 days (data not shown). In addition, we did not observe an increase in transcript levels in either roots or shoots upon exposure to an excess of Cd, Co, Cu, Fe or Mn for 2 days, using quantitative real-time RT-PCR (data not shown). Next we investigated whether AtMTP1 is expressed differentially in different plant organs ( CITATION ). AtMTP1 transcripts were detected at similar levels in all analyzed tissues, namely entire mature flowers, the inflorescence stem, cauline and young rosette leaves, as well as in roots of mature plants. In siliques transcript levels were slightly higher than in the other tissues analyzed ( CITATION ). To gain further information on the expression of AtMTP1 we analyzed plants transformed with a GUS reporter gene construct incorporating approximately 1.5 kpb of the AtMTP1 promoter region, the 5′ untranslated region of AtMTP1 containing one or two introns and the first 357 bp of the intron-free AtMTP1 coding sequence. The construct thus encoded the first two N-terminal transmembrane segments of MTP1, fused to the β-glucuronidase reporter protein. GUS activity was detectable in the youngest leaves of young seedlings ( CITATION A), as well as in the hydathodes of older leaves. GUS activity was particularly high in the root systems of young 14-day-old seedlings ( CITATION B). With increasing seedling age, GUS activity decreased in most parts of the roots (data not shown), but remained very high in the tips of main and lateral roots ( CITATION C and D). In mature plants, there was virtually no histochemically detectable GUS activity in fully expanded leaves (not shown). Flower buds displayed an intense GUS staining, primarily in the carpels ( CITATION E). GUS activity in carpels decreased during flower maturation and was low and confined to the abscission zone in young siliques ( CITATION F), but remained high in filaments and in pollen grains of mature flowers ( CITATION G). GUS activity was also high in the upper part of the inflorescence stem ( CITATION G), but not detectable in the lower part (not shown). During maturation of siliques GUS activity was highest in developing seeds between 4 and 7 days after pollination, and decreased afterwards (9 and 11 days after pollination, CITATION H). In a section of a developing seed, GUS activity was localized in the embryo and endosperm ( CITATION I). To investigate whether GUS activity was representative of steady-state transcript levels we analyzed the AtGenExpress data of organs at comparable developmental stages ( http://www.arabidopsis.org/info/expression/ATGenExpress.jsp ). According to the AtGenExpress data MTP1 transcript levels are highest in developing seeds and in mature pollen ( CITATION K). The AtGenExpress database further indicates that in young seedlings AtMTP1 transcript levels are higher in roots than in shoots, and tend to decrease between 8 and 21 days of plant age. Finally, transcript levels are higher in the vegetative apex, the inflorescence and in young flowers than in rosette leaves. The publicly available transcript data is thus qualitatively in agreement with GUS staining patterns in pAtMTP1::GUS lines. Ectopic overexpression of an AtMTP1 cDNA under the control of a CaMV 35S promoter has previously been shown to slightly enhance Zn tolerance CITATION . This is consistent with the localization of AtMTP1 in the vacuolar membrane and a cellular function in the transport of Zn 2+ ions into the vacuole for sequestration, as described here. However, in order to define the role of AtMTP1 in planta, a loss-of function mutant is more appropriate. A putative T-DNA knockout line was identified in the Syngenta collection (Garlic_305_A09.b.1a.lb3Fb). This line harbored two tandem T-DNAs in an intron of the MTP1 gene 306 bp upstream of the translational start codon of MTP1 (not shown). In this line MTP1 transcript levels were not reduced compared to wild-type plants (not shown). A. thaliana plants were transformed with an intron-spliced hairpin construct designed for MTP1 silencing by RNA interference (RNAi) CITATION . This construct contained two identical 600-bp fragments of the AtMTP1 coding sequence in reverse orientation, separated by an intron, downstream of the strong constitutive CaMV 35S promoter. Based on the assumption that plants with reduced MTP1 protein levels are likely to be zinc-hypersensitive, T1 seeds were selected for expression of the resistance marker, and transformants were subsequently transferred onto media containing high Zn concentrations. All MTP1 -RNAi transformant individuals were hypersensitive to Zn in the T1 generation ( CITATION A). To confirm that MTP1 transcript levels were reduced in these plants we performed quantitative real-time RT-PCR. On average, transcript levels of AtMTP1 -RNAi transformant seedlings were reduced to 28.5% of those found in empty vector control transformants in the T1 generation ( CITATION B). In A. thaliana the MTP2 and MTP3 coding sequences are the most homologous to MTP1 , with 65.1% and 62.8% identity, respectively, within the cDNA fragment chosen for RNA interference. The longest stretch of identical nucleotides of 18 consecutive nucleotides is found between the chosen fragment from MTP1 and the MTP2 sequence. Relative to empty vector controls, MTP3 transcript levels were slightly reduced to on average about 83.4%, whereas MTP2 transcript levels were not reduced in AtMTP1 RNA interference transformants ( CITATION B). Root elongation was significantly more sensitive to Zn in AtMTP1 -RNAi transformants than in empty vector transformants at 100, 150 and 200 μM Zn ( CITATION C). There was no difference in root elongation under control (low zinc; CITATION C) or zinc deficiency conditions (data not shown). This suggests that MTP1 contributes to basal Zn tolerance in A. thaliana . To investigate whether MTP1 contributes to Zn accumulation in A. thaliana , Zn concentrations were analyzed in various organs collected from mature plants grown on soil. Compared to the wild-type, Zn concentrations were significantly lower in the inflorescence stem (42% of wild-type) and in cauline leaves (68% of wild-type) and rosette leaves (50% of wild-type) of AtMTP1 RNA interference plants ( CITATION ). Compared to empty vector transformants MTP1 RNAi plants contained 80%, 91% and 65% Zn in the stem, in cauline leaves and rosette leaves, respectively, in an independent experiment (data not shown; P < 0.05, P < 0.05, P < 0.001 in a Student’s t test, respectively). This suggests that AtMTP1 is involved in determining the strength of these organs as depositories for Zn in A. thaliana . In contrast, Zn concentrations in reproductive sink organs, namely flowers and siliques, which contained the highest Zn concentrations, appeared unaffected by reduced AtMTP1 expression. In seeds of wild-type and RNAi plants, Zn concentrations were 46.7 ± 2.1 mg kg −1 ( n = 3 independent replicates) and 39.2 ± 1.6 mg kg −1 ( n = 3), respectively. It has to be kept in mind that the residual levels of AtMTP1 transcript in the RNA interference plants imply that some MTP1 protein was likely to be present in these plants.
!~MM~! Seeds of A. thaliana (L.) Heynhold (Col) were used throughout (Lehle Seeds, Round Rock, TX, USA). Sterile plant growth was performed in square plastic Petri plates (14 cm) in a climate-controlled growth cabinet (20 °C day/18 °C night; 60% relative humidity day/75% night; 11 h day with illumination at a light intensity of 120 μmol m −2 s −1 ). Plants on soil were cultivated in 1:1 (v/v) standard soil (GS90) and vermiculite in a greenhouse with the following settings: 20 °C day/18 °C night, 50% relative humidity day/80% night, 16 h day, with supplementary lighting provided by mercury vapor lamps to give a total light intensity of approximately 250 μmol m −2 s −1 . Hydroponic plant culture was performed in a modified 0.25-strength Hoagland solution as described CITATION in a climate-controlled growth chamber (temperature: 20 °C day/16 °C night; relative humidity: 60% day/75% night; light: 16 h day/8 h night and a light intensity of 120 μmol m −2 s −1 ). Plants were supported by floating polystyrene lids. After germination, solutions were exchanged weekly. Cloning and DNA manipulations were performed using standard procedures CITATION and according to the instructions from manufacturers. A DNA fragment containing the coding sequence of AtMTP1 (At2g46800) was amplified by PCR from cDNA using the forward primer 5′-CACCATGGAGTCTTCAAGTCCCCACC-3′, and reverse primers 5′-TTAGCGCTCGATTTGTATCGTGAC-3′ (with stop codon) or 5′-GCGCTCGATTTGTATCGTGACATG-3′ (without stop codon), respectively, and Pfu Turbo DNA polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA), and the following program: 35 cycles of 95 °C for 30 s, 55 °C for 30 s, 72 °C for 2 min. The PCR product was introduced into the entry vector pENTR/D-TOPO (pENTR/D-TOPO cloning kit, Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) by site-directed recombination. The mutant AtMTP 1 D94A was generated in pENTR/D-TOPO- MTP1 using a previously described technique CITATION , employing primers 5′-GCTCATTTGCTCTCT GCC GTTGCTGCCTTTGC-3′ and 5′-GCAAAGGCAGCAACGGCAGAGAGCAAATGAGC-3′ (10 cycles of 95 °C for 30 s, 55 °C for 60 s, 68 °C for 12 min), followed by digestion of the parent DNA with Dpn I, which digests methylated and hemimethylated DNA, and subsequent transformation of E. coli for repair of the doubly nicked plasmid. All entry clones were verified by sequencing. The 1197-bp coding sequence of the AtMTP1 cDNA was subcloned into a GATEWAY-converted (F.Porée, University of Potsdam) pGEMHE vector CITATION . Capped complementary RNA (cRNA) was synthesized in vitro using either the mMESSAGE mMACHINE T7 kit or the mMESSAGE mMACHINE T7 Ultra kit (Ambion, Austin, TX). Stage V and VI Xenopus oocytes were prepared as described previously CITATION . For Zn accumulation experiments, oocytes were injected with 50 nL H 2 O, or 25 ng cRNA per oocyte for AtMTP1 or AtMTP 1 D94A , respectively. Injected oocytes were maintained in Barth’s medium, composed as follows: 10 mM N -2-hydroxyethylpiperazine- N ′-3-propanesulfonic acid (HEPES)–NaOH pH 7.4, 88 mM NaCl, 1 mM KCl, 2.4 mM NaHCO 3 , 0.33 mM Ca(NO 3 ) 2 , 0.41 mM CaCl 2 , 0.82 mM MgSO 4 , supplemented with 10 mg L −1 gentamycin. Seventy-two hours after injection, pools of 50 oocytes were subjected to the following treatments at 25 °C: 30 min in OR2 medium or 30 min in OR2 medium supplemented with 0.1 mM ZnSO 4 , respectively. The OR2 medium was composed as follows: 82.5 mM NaCl, 2 mM KCl, 1 mM MgCl 2 , and 5 mM HEPES; pH was adjusted to 7.4 with NaOH. After the exposures, oocyte pools were transferred onto ice immediately and rinsed three times with ice-cold OR2 medium at pH 8.5. Subsequently, the remaining drops of medium were carefully removed. Oocytes were dried at 60 °C for 3 days. Oocyte pools were digested and analyzed as described CITATION by inductively-coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES). The experiment was repeated independently using a different batch of oocytes. Results were qualitatively similar, but all oocytes contained higher Zn concentrations. To generate yeast expression constructs, the AtMTP1 cDNAs were introduced into the target vector pFL613 CITATION , which generates a translational fusion of the encoded protein to an N-terminal triple hemagglutinin (3 × HA) epitope tag. Transformation of the zcr1 cot1 double mutant strain was performed as described CITATION , and transformants were selected on synthetic complete minimal medium (SC)-URA. For each construct, overnight liquid cultures of four independent transformant colonies grown in low phosphate low sulphate synthetic minimal medium (LSP)-URA medium supplemented with 2% (w/v) glucose and 1.4 μM ZnSO 4 , were washed once in fresh culture medium and used to inoculate 4 mL of the same medium with concentrations of added ZnSO 4 between 50 μM and 2 mM, at a cell density of 10 5 cells mL −1 . Cultures were incubated at 30 °C with constant mixing in a culture wheel. Optical density was measured at 600 nm in 5- to 8-h intervals. The doubling time was determined for the phase of maximum growth between 19 and 24 h after the beginning of cultivation. The experiment was repeated three times. Cells were collected by centrifugation from low Zn control cultures of equivalent cell densities after 48 h of culture. Total protein was extracted, separated on a 10% (v/v) denaturing sodium dodecyl sulfate–polyacrylamide gel CITATION , and blotted CITATION onto a PVDF membrane (Immobilon ™ , Bedford, MA, USA) using a semidry blotting apparatus (Fastblot B33, Biometra GmbH, Göttingen, Germany). Membranes were blocked in 10% (w/v) milk powder, 0.1% (v/v) Tween 20 in tris-hydroxymethyl aminomethane-buffered saline (TBS), and then incubated in a solution of 1% (w/v) milk powder, 0.125% (v/v) Tween 20 in TBS containing 1:5000 monoclonal mouse anti-HA antibody (Covance Research Products, Santa Clara, CA, USA). Membranes were washed three times in the same solution without antibodies for 10 min, and then incubated in the same solution containing 1:10 000 anti-mouse-Igg coupled to horseradish peroxidase (Amersham Biosciences, Little Chalfont, UK) for 4 h, followed by three washes as described above, and chemiluminescent detection (ECL kit; Amersham Biosciences, Little Chalfont, UK). For neutral red loading, 4-mL cultures of equivalent cell densities grown in minimal medium at 1.4 μM Zn for 56 h were sedimented at 1000 × g for 5 min, resuspended in an equal volume of fresh minimal medium and incubated with mixing at 30 °C for 45 min. After sedimentation, yeast cells were suspended in 4 mL 100 mM Na 2 CO 3 , at pH 9.4 adjusted with HCl, containing 0.04% (w/v) neutral red and incubated at 30 °C with gentle agitation for 10 min. Cells were washed once in 4 mL 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer at pH 7.5, and finally suspended in 100 μL of the same buffer. Equal volumes (50 μL) were transferred into each well of a 96-well microtiter plate for scanning of the color image. To generate a construct encoding a chimeric fusion protein of an N-terminal RSsm-GFP CITATION and AtMTP1, the AtMTP1 cDNA was subcloned by in vitro site-directed recombination (Invitrogen) into the plant transient expression vector pA7-p35S-N-GFP (Katrin Czempinsky, University of Potsdam, Germany), adapted for Gateway cloning (Ben Trevaskis, CSIRO Plant Industry, Canberra, Australia). Protoplasts were prepared from an A. thaliana suspension culture and transfected, as described CITATION . Between 24 and 48 h after transfection fluorescence was imaged by confocal microscopy (Leica TCS SP2, Leica Microsystem, Wetzlar, Germany) with excitation at 488 nm, and the GFP fluorescence emission signal was detected between 505 and 520 nm. A coding sequence of the AtMTP1 cDNA lacking the translational stop codon was introduced by site-directed recombination into the binary vector pK7FWG2 CITATION , designed for translational fusion of the encoded protein to a C-terminal enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP). The resulting vector was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens by electroporation, and six A. thaliana (Col) plants were used for transformation employing the floral dip method CITATION . Transformant individuals were selected on vertical plates containing 0.5× Murashige & Skoog (MS) medium, 0.5% (w/v) sucrose, 0.8% (w/v) phytagar (Invitrogen) and 50 mg L −1 kanamycin (Duchefa, Haarlem, The Netherlands) for 6–13 days. Seedlings were incubated in a solution of 1 mg mL −1 propidium iodide (Molecular Probes, Inc., Eugene, OR) in ultrapure water for 0.5 h before observation. Transformants were analyzed in the T2 generation, and the images shown are representative of a total of four analyzed independent transgenic lines. Two plants were grown hydroponically in 400 mL nutrient solution in each culture vessel as described above. Plant organs were harvested from six-week-old flowering plants, generating pooled samples from four plants grown in two replicate culture vessels per sample. Organs were sampled as follows: opened flowers, the five oldest green siliques, all cauline leaves, a 2-cm section of the inflorescence stem at mid-height, the entire root system without the hypocotyls, and rosette leaves from an intermediate position within the rosette. All plant tissues were frozen immediately in liquid nitrogen and subsequently stored at 80 °C. Total RNA was isolated from 100 mg subsamples after homogenization using RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). The quantity of RNA was determined spectrophotometrically, and its quality was checked by agarose gel electrophoresis. RNA was treated with RNase-free DNase-I (Ambion) for 30 min followed by DNase-I removal. Two micrograms of DNA-free RNA was reverse transcribed using First-Stand Synthesis System for RT-PCR (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s specifications. The absence of genomic DNA was verified by performing a control reaction omitting reverse transcriptase for each template, and by performing PCR with primers for the AtAKT1 gene (At2g26650), 5′-ATCGGATAACAATGGCAGAACAC-3′ and 5′-GCAGGACGGATGTTGGGTTCACTA-3′. These primers span an intron of the genomic AtAKT1 sequence, and thus amplify a product of 579 bp from cDNA, and 766 bp from genomic DNA. PCR conditions and primers were optimized for amplification efficiencies of 100 ± 5% for all primer pairs used. AtMTP1 -specific primers were 5′-ACGGCCATGACCATCACAATC-3′ and 5′-TGCTTGTCCTCTCCATGACCA-3′. Primers specific for the constitutively expressed control gene AtCYP5 (cyclophilin; At2g29960) were 5′-CCAGGTGTACTTTCAATGGCG-3′ and 5′-CAAACACCACATGCCTTCCA-3′. These primer pairs were designed to specifically amplify fragments of approximately 120 bp of the coding sequence (Primer Express version 2.0, Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA). The real-time PCR was performed using the qPCR MasterMix for SYBR green kit (RT-SN2X-03, Eurogentec, Seraing, Begium), in a total volume of 25 μL, including 0.1–10 ng of cDNA, and gene-specific primers (250 nM final concentration). Amplification of PCR products was monitored via intercalation of SYBR Green using an ABI PRISM 5700 or 7900HT sequence detection system (Applied Biosystems, Foster city, California, USA). Amplification was performed for 40 cycles, and data were analyzed as described CITATION . Amplification efficiency was calculated using absolute fluorescence data captured during the exponential phase of amplification of each real-time PCR CITATION to ensure equal amplification for all primer pairs. The relative transcript level for AtMTP1 was calculated by normalizing to AtCYP5 as follows: RTL = 2 − Δ C T , whereby Δ C T = C T ( MTP1 ) − C T ( CYP5 ). After completion of each PCR reaction, all PCR products were checked by melting-curve analysis and by agarose gel electrophoresis. Three independent replicate experiments were conducted. The generation of a fusion construct of the promoter region of AtMTP1 and the E. coli uidA gene was out-contracted (Hermann Schmidt, DNA Cloning Service, Hamburg, Germany). The constructs were made from PCR products amplified from A. thaliana (Col) genomic DNA, in the vector pGPTV-Kan CITATION . Based on full-length AtMTP1 cDNAs available in the databases ( http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress ), the construct incorporated 1537 bp of the promoter region, followed by the genomic region encoding the 5′-UTR of AtMTP1 and containing one or two introns upstream of the intron-less coding sequence of AtMTP1 , as well as the first 357 bp of the AtMTP1 coding sequence. Constructs were verified by sequencing and sequentially introduced into A. tumefaciens and A. thaliana as described above. Histochemical staining was performed in the T2 generation, using eleven independent transgenic lines for seedlings and seven independent lines for flowers and siliques. Seeds were surface-sterilized and germinated on 0.5× Murashige & Skoog medium containing 0.5% (w/v) sucrose and 50 mg L −1 kanamycin. Plant tissues were harvested as indicated and immediately transferred into ice-cold 90% (v/v) acetone, and subsequently incubated at room temperature for 20 min. Tissues were washed in staining buffer (0.2% (v/v) Triton X-100; 50 mM Na-PO 4 buffer, pH 7.2; 2 mM potassium ferrocyanide; 2 mM potassium ferricyanide), and subsequently transferred into staining buffer supplemented with 2 mM Cyclohexylammonium 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β- d -glucuronate (X-Gluc, Duchefa). Samples were infiltrated under vacuum for 20 min and stained at 37 °C for 4 h. After successive incubation in 20%, 35%, and 50% (v/v) ethanol, each for 30 min, samples were placed in fixative (50% (v/v) ethanol; 5% (v/v) formaldehyde; 10% (v/v) acetic acid) for 30 min. Samples were kept in 90% (v/v) ethanol at 4 °C or room temperature. Selected tissues were embedded in Technovit (Technovit 7100 and 3040, Heraeus Kulzer, Hanau, Germany) resin for subsequent sectioning using a microtome (RM 2155, Leica, Wetzlar, Germany). Other samples were embedded in 5% (w/v) low melt agarose in ddH 2 O and cut using a vibratome (VT 1000 S, Leica). Sections of 275 μm thickness were stained in a solution contained 100 mM Na-PO 4 buffer (pH 7.2), 10 mM EDTA, 3 mM potassium ferrocyanide, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100 and 2 mM X-Gluc, as described above. A 600-bp fragment encompassing nucleotides 152–752 of the 1197-bp-long coding sequence of AtMTP1 was amplified from cDNA using primers 5′-TATCTAGAGGCGCGCCGCTCTGCTTCTATGCGGA-3′ and 5′-ACGGATCCATTTAAATTCTTTTGCTGCGACTTGA-3′. The restriction sites introduced by the primers, Asc I and Swa I, and Bam HI and Xba I, respectively, were used to sequentially introduce the fragment in opposite orientation into the binary vector pFGC5941 (ChromDB; http://www.chromdb.org/index.html , chromdb@ag.arizona.edu , University of Arizona, AR, USA). After transformation of A. thaliana (Col) as described above, seeds of the T1 generation were surface-sterilized, and transformants were selected on vertical plates filled with 0.5× Murashige & Skoog (MS) medium containing 0.5% (w/v) sucrose, 0.025 mg ml −1 dl -phosphinotricine (Duchefa) and 0.8% (w/v) phytagar (Invitrogen). Each selected individual plant thus represented an independent transformant line. For experiments, 10-day-old seedlings were transferred either onto soil, or onto vertical plastic Petri dishes containing modified 0.25-strength Hoagland solution CITATION with 0.5% (w/v) sucrose, 0.8% (w/v) phytagar and between 1 μM and 200 μM ZnSO 4 . Three replicate plates, each containing ten seedlings, were set up for each genotype and each Zn concentration. Plants were photographed and harvested after 7 days for the determination of final root length and the analysis of transcript levels. RNA was extracted from 4 pooled seedlings grown at 1 μM ZnSO 4 . Real-time RT-PCR and data analysis were performed as described CITATION , using the following primers: AtMTP1 , 5′-TCAGACCAGAAGCAGATGCAGA-3′ and 5′-CTCCCTGCGGATGTAATCAATT-3′; AtMTP2 , 5′-GGACAACCATTAAGATGCTTCG-3′ and 5′-TCTCTCGGTGTGCTCTCCATTA-3′; AtMTP3 , 5′-GCGATTACTGTCGGCAAACTTT-3′ and 5′-AAACCATATCTGCCTCTGCCTC-3′. Three independent replicate experiments were performed for the analysis of transcript levels and Zn tolerance. For the determination of Zn accumulation, 17-day-old plants were transferred individually into 6 cm pots of soil following selection as described above. After growth in the greenhouse for 27 days, plant tissues were harvested separately. Seeds were harvested at maturity. Tissues collected from nine replicate plants were pooled from groups of three plants to generate three independent replicate samples. Plant tissues were washed in deionized water, blotted on tissue paper, dried and analyzed by inductively-coupled optical emission spectrometry as described CITATION . Data shown are representative of three independent biological experiments.
