!~ABS~! The proper control of cell expansion is vital to plant development. It is responsible for shaping individual cells and, together with cell division, it plays a lead role in shaping plant organs. Much of the underlying mechanism by which plant cells expand anisotropically is not understood. We are taking a genetic approach to cell expansion by isolating mutants that affect the branching pattern of Arabidopsis trichomes. Here we report the identification of four new loci that control trichome morphogenesis. These loci were named the IRREGULARTRICHOME BRANCH (ITB) loci because of the deleterious effects on branch position and length in the mutants. Our analysis of branch expansion in itb mutants shows that the ITB genes act as positive regulators of branch elongation, and that the branch position defects are caused by altered expansion of the trichome stalk. The itb mutations display synergistic effects in double mutant combinations with certain branch number mutations, suggesting that the ITB genes also play key roles in branch initiation. These results demonstrate that the ITB genes are key regulators of anisotropic cell expansion in trichomes.
!~RES~! To understand more about trichome morphogenesis, we screened mutagenized populations of Arabidopsis for plants that displayed abnormal trichome branching. We identified nine mutants that showed irregularities in branch and stalk expansion, but showed little or no changes in trichome branch number (Fig. 1). We called these mutants irregular trichome branch (itb) mutants. The results of pair-wise complementation tests placed the nine itb mutations into four complementation groups that defined four ITB genes (Table 1). In addition to the complementation tests, we also backcrossed the itb mutants to both RLD and Col wild-type plants. The trichomes on all the F1 plants were normal. These results showed that all the itb mutations are recessive. This result suggests that all of the itb mutations are loss-of-function mutations. The segregation ratios of the itb plants to wild-type plants in the subsequent F2 population indicated that each of the itb mutations was monogenic. To confirm that each of the ITB complementation groups represented a novel locus, we determined the genetic map position of each of the ITB genes using simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP) markers (Fig. 2). The ITB1 locus is located on chromosome II, about 1.4 cM from marker nga168 and about 1.0 cM from marker S1. The other three ITB loci are located on chromosome I. ITB4 is near the bottom of chromosome I, about 4.0 cM north of marker nga168. ITB2 is located between ITB3 and ITB4, approximately 2.0 cM from ITB3 and about 12.0 cM from ITB4. These results demonstrate that each of the ITB complementation groups represents a new locus because no previously reported genes involved in trichome morphogenesis have been mapped to these locations. To determine if the itb mutations affected branch initiation, we counted the number of trichome branches on the wild type and itb mutants. As shown in Table 2, we found only small differences in branch number between all but one of the itb mutants and the wild type. Only itb2 mutants showed no change in branch number compared with the wild type. The itb1-7 allele showed a slight increase in the number of trichomes with four branches with a concomitant decrease in trichomes with three branches (Table 2). The itb3 and itb4 mutants showed a <2-fold decrease in three-branched trichomes with an associated increase in two-branched trichomes. These results show that branch number is only slightly affected in three of the four itb mutants. However, the change in branch number in these itb mutants suggests that the genes do play a role, albeit a potentially minor one, in branch initiation. We also used scanning electron microscopy to examine branch initiation during itb trichome development. We found that branch initiation proceeds normally in all of the itb mutants; the irregular branch phenotype only becomes apparent during the subsequent rapid expansion phase of trichome development (data not shown). The apparent branch position defects are therefore caused by abnormal expansion of the trichome stalk. In addition to the branch and stalk elongation defects, trichomes on the itb1-7, itb1-16 and itb2-19 mutants showed further aberrant expansion resulting in a bloated and/or twisted appearance of some of the trichomes (Fig. 1). We also examined overall growth characteristics of the itb mutants as compared with the wild type. We found no obvious differences between itb mutants and the wild type with respect to germination, leaf shape, flowering time, overall plant morphology and fertility. To quantify the extent of irregularity displayed by each of the itb mutants, we established a set of criteria based on our phenotypic observations of leaf trichome branch length and position. For a trichome to be classified as irregular, at least one of two phenotypes had to be present. (i) The distance between any two branch points (D1, Fig. 3A) was more than twice the diameter (D2, Fig. 3A) of the trichome stalk at its midpoint (D1>2D2, Fig. 3A). Trichomes exhibiting this phenotype were classified as type A. (ii) The length of the longest branch on a trichome (L1, Fig. 3A) was more than twice that of the shortest branch on the same trichome (L1>2L2, Fig. 3A). Trichomes exhibiting this phenotype were classified as type B. If a trichome displays both phenotypes, it was classified as type C. On wild-type plants, leaf trichome shape is uniform with regard to branch length and position. Less than 5% of the trichomes possess irregular branches as determined by using our branch irregularity criteria described above (Fig. 3A, Table 3). The trichomes on itb mutants, however, exhibit an obvious irregular phenotype (Table 3). Except for plants carrying the weaker itb1-1 allele, >80% of the leaf trichomes on itb1 and itb2 mutants, and >64% of the trichomes on itb3 mutants show the irregular phenotype (Table 3). Even the weakest of the itb mutants, itb4, has almost 40% irregular trichomes (Table 3). To determine if there was a predominance of either branch expansion or branch position defects in any of the itb mutants, we categorized the irregular trichomes based on the classification scheme described in Fig. 3A. As shown in Table 4, there were clear differences in trichome branching patterns among the mutants. For example, the vast majority (88%) of leaf trichomes on weak itb1-1 mutants had only branch position defects, compared with an average of 21% of the trichomes on the stronger itb1 mutants. The itb2 mutants had the fewest number of class A trichomes; only an average of 6.3% of the irregular trichomes displayed only branch position defects. Most of the irregular trichomes on plants carrying the strong itb1-7 allele had both branch position and branch length defects (class C). This is in contrast to itb2, itb3 and itb4 mutants where most of the irregular trichomes showed only branch length defects (Table 4). The few irregular trichomes produced on wild-type plants show only branch position defects (data not shown). To characterize the itb phenotype further, we measured the length of the trichome branches and the height of the stalk on the itb mutants. The results of this analysis (Fig. 3B) show that the length of the longest branch did not change significantly for itb1, itb2 and itb4 mutants. Also, we found that average stalk height for itb1 and itb4 was comparable with the wild type, and that stalk height was only slightly reduced in itb1 and itb2 mutants compared with the wild type. For itb3 mutants, the lengths of both the longest and shortest branches as well as stalk height was reduced as compared with the wild type. This explains the generally smaller appearance of itb3 trichomes compared with the other itb mutants and the wild type (Fig. 1). The largest difference between the wild type and the itb mutants was that the average length of the shortest branch was reduced by approximately 2-fold (Fig. 3B). This difference points toward a defect in branch elongation as the main reason for the irregular trichome phenotype as opposed to overexpansion of some branches at the expense of others. To uncover additional roles for the ITB genes in trichome morphogenesis, we crossed the itb mutants to several of the branch number mutants. Generally, the branch number mutants show defects in branch initiation, but not branch or stalk expansion (Luo and Oppenheimer 1999). Only the zwi mutation causes defects in both branch initiation and branch position/elongation (Hülskamp et al. 1994). Because the ITB genes do not appear to play a large role in branch initiation, and the branch number genes do not appear to play a role in branch elongation/position, we predicted that double mutants would show mostly additive phenotypes. Surprisingly, many of the double mutants showed synthetic genetic interactions. Here we define synthetic interactions as those that produce phenotypes different from those predicted by additive or epistatic interactions. The zwi mutation is unique among the mutations that affect trichome branch number; trichomes on zwi mutants not only show reduced branch number, but also display an irregular trichome branch phenotype (Hülskamp et al. 1994, Folkers et al. 1997, Oppenheimer et al. 1997, Luo and Oppenheimer 1999) (Fig. 4, Table 5). To determine if zwi acts synergistically with the itb mutations, we constructed itb zwi double mutants. We found that the itb1, itb2 and itb3 mutations in combination with zwi produced trichome phenotypes comparable with that produced by zwi single mutants with respect to branch number and irregularity (Fig. 4 and Table 5), indicating that the zwi mutation is essentially epistatic over itb1, itb2 and itb3. However, trichomes on the itb1-16 zwi 9311–11 double mutant also showed an overall trichome expansion defect reminiscent of itb1-16 single mutants. This suggests that there is an additive effect with respect to overall trichome expansion in the itb1 zwi double mutant. The itb4-1 zwi-9311–11 double mutants showed an atypical trichome phenotype—completely unbranched trichomes (Fig. 4 and Table 5). This synthetic phenotype indicates a synergistic interaction between itb4 and zwi mutations. To test whether this interaction was allele specific, we crossed the itb4-1 mutation to the zwi-3 allele. Trichomes on zwi-3 mutants normally have only two branches (Table 6). As seen on itb4-1 zwi-9311–11 double mutants, trichomes on itb4-1zwi-3 double mutants are unbranched (Table 6). This result shows that itb4-1 acts as a recessive enhancer of the zwi-3 mutation. During construction of the itb4-1 zwi-3 double mutant, we found itb4-1 mutants that showed a more severe phenotype segregated in F2 populations. Subsequent genetic analysis confirmed that these more severe itb4-1 mutants were heterozygous for the zwi-3 mutation. The effect of one copy of zwi-3 in itb4-1 homozygotes was a decrease in the number of trichomes with three branches and an increase in the irregular trichome phenotype (Table 6). In particular, the number of normal three-branched trichomes decreased from 50% in itb4-1/itb4-1 plants to about 5% in itb4-1/itb4-1zwi-3/+ plants. The two-branched trichomes showed a similar effect; the number of irregular, two-branched trichomes increased from about 3% in itb4-1 homozygotes to 14% in itb4-1 homozygotes that were heterozygous for zwi-3 (Table 6). These results show that the zwi-3 mutation acts as a dominant enhancer of the itb4-1 mutation. The trichomes on all of the itb frc2-1 double mutants show a predominant irregular phenotype (Fig. 4 and Table 5). However, in all combinations with frc2-1, the itb mutations causes a marked increase in trichome branch number in the double mutants as compared with frc2-1 single mutants. This is particularly evident in itb2-28frc2-1 double mutants where the trichomes not only have more branches than either single mutant, but also have more branches than wild-type trichomes (Tables 2 and 5). Interestingly, by itself, itb2 is the only itb mutation that has no effect on branch number (Table 2). The increased number of three-branched trichomes on the double mutants indicates a synthetic genetic interaction between the itb and frc2-1 mutations. A similar situation exists for combinations of the itb mutations with the frc3-1 mutation. Trichomes on itb frc3-1 double mutants show an increase in branch number compared with those on frc3-1 single mutants (Table 5). Because itb1 single mutants show a slight increase in branch number as compared with wild type (Table 2), the increased number of three-branched trichomes in frc3itb1 double mutants (as compared with frc3 single mutants) may be due to an additive effect of the individual mutations. For itb2, itb3 and itb4, the double mutant combinations with frc3 resulted in more three-branched trichomes than would be predicted from additive or epistatic interactions (Table 5). The itb2-28 mutants show no effect on trichome branch number, yet trichomes on itb2-28 frc3-1 double mutants have more branches than frc3-1 single mutants (Tables 2 and 5). The increased number of three-branched trichomes is also seen in double mutant combinations of itb3-27 and itb4-1 with frc3-1 even though both itb3-27 and itb4-1 single mutants show a decrease in branch number (Tables 2 and 5). Interestingly, the frc3-1 mutation partially suppresses the irregular phenotype when in combination with the itb mutations (Table 5). At least 75% of the trichomes on the itb1-16 frc3-1, itb2-28 frc3-1 and itb4-1 frc3-1 double mutants, and >50% of the trichomes on itb3-27 frc3-1 double mutants are normal (Table 5). This partial suppression of the irregular phenotype and the increased branch number suggest a synthetic genetic interaction with respect to both branch initiation and elongation. TRY and NOK are members of a group of genes that act as negative regulators of trichome branch initiation (Hülskamp et al. 1994, Folkers et al. 1997, Perazza et al. 1999). As a result, mutations in try and nok lead to trichomes with more branches than wild type. To uncover further roles for the ITB genes in branch initiation, we crossed the itb mutations to try and nok. Even though trichomes on both itb1 and try mutants have more branches than the wild type, trichomes on the itb1try double mutants had fewer branches than try single mutants (Tables 2 and 5). This decrease is most apparent in the proportion of trichomes with five or more branches, which decreased from 37% in try mutants to 3% in the itb1try double mutant (Table 5). The trichomes of the itb2 try and itb4 try double mutants often initiated fewer branches than the try single mutant. Whereas trichomes with less than four branches represented <1% in try, they accounted for 19 and 88% of the trichomes on itb2 try and itb4try leaves, respectively (Table 5). This phenotype is clearly synthetic as the itb2 and itb4 single mutants have little effect on branch initiation (Table 2). These results show that itb1, itb2 and itb4 act synergistically with try during branch initiation. In contrast to the other itb mutations, itb3 has an additive effect on branching in combination with try; trichomes on itb3try double mutants have more branches than itb3 single mutants, but fewer branches than try single mutants. Although the itb try double mutants displayed a clear increase in the number of irregular trichomes indicating an additive effect of the itb mutations in combination with try, itb1 and itb2 showed an additional synthetic effect on trichome expansion. The trichomes on itb1try and itb2 try plants were bloated and more misshapen compared with trichomes on either single mutant (Fig. 4). A similar phenotype was displayed by itb1nok mutants; the trichomes had a swollen appearance in addition to the irregular branch phenotype (Fig. 4). Generally, the nok mutation in combination with the itb mutations showed branch number phenotypes similar to those seen in the itbtry double mutants. In all cases, branch number decreased in the itb nok double mutants as compared with nok single mutants. For branch/stalk expansion, the itb1 nok and itb4 nok double mutants showed an increase in irregular trichomes, indicating additive interactions. Interestingly, nok was epistatic to itb2 and itb3 with respect to branch/stalk expansion. The itb2nok and itb3nok double mutants had fewer irregular trichomes than the itb2 and itb3 single mutants (Table 5). Strong sti alleles produce completely unbranched trichomes. When we crossed the itb mutants to sti, we found that all of the itbsti double mutants were completely unbranched (Fig. 4 and Table 5). This shows that for branch initiation, sti is epistatic to the itb mutations. Importantly, all the itbsti double mutants produced trichomes similar in size to those produced by the sti mutant (Fig. 4). This result shows that elongation of the primary branch is not affected in the double mutants. Mutations in an lead to defects in epidermal cell expansion in all plant organs (Tsuge et al. 1996). Leaf trichome branch initiation is also affected in an mutants, leading to a predominance of two-branched trichomes (Hülskamp et al. 1994). In itb1an double mutants, the trichomes showed both the two-branched phenotype of an and the irregular branch phenotype of itb1 (Fig. 4 and Table 5). The additive effect of the two mutations suggests that itb1 and an participate in independent pathways. The itb4an double mutants showed a decrease in trichome branch number greater than that displayed by either single mutant alone (Fig. 4 and Table 5). In itb4an double mutants, 37% of the trichomes were unbranched compared with 4% in an single mutants and 9.4% in itb4 single mutants (Fig. 4 and Table 5). This result shows that there is a synergistic effect of the an and itb4 mutations on trichome branch initiation.
!~MM~! Plants were grown as previously described (Krishnakumar and Oppenheimer 1999) and fertilized using PGP (Pollock and Oppenheimer 1999). The wild-type strains used in this study were Columbia (Col), Landsberg erecta (Ler), Rschew (RLD) and Wassilewskija (WS). The trichome branch mutants used in this study were described in Luo and Oppenheimer (1999). The try-JC allele was obtained from J. C. Larkin (Louisiana State University) The itb1-1 mutant was isolated from a T-DNA mutagenized population in the WS genetic background, although the mutation was not tagged by the T-DNA. The itb1-5, itb1-16, itb1-7, itb2-12, itb2-19, itb2-28 and itb3-27 mutants were identified in a screen of fast neutron-mutagenized RLD plants. The fast neutron-mutagenized RLD seed was purchased from Lehle Seeds (Round Rock, TX, USA). The itb mutants were identified in the M2 populations from >10 different M1 parental groups, each containing approximately 3,000 M1 plants. The itb4-1 mutation was identified in a population derived from ethylmethane sulfonate (EMS)-mutagenized Col zwi-3 seeds. Trichomes were removed from leaves as described by Zhang and Oppenheimer (2004) with the following modifications: leaves were fixed for 3 h, rinsed in 1×PBS and incubated in 50 mM EGTA for 3 d. Leaves were transferred to a Petri dish and gentle agitation on a rotary shaker for 1–24 h was used to remove the trichomes. With the aid of a dissecting microscope, trichomes were transferred to 15 ml disposable centrifuge tubes and collected by centrifugation at 4,000×g for 10 min. The trichomes were rinsed with phosphate-buffered saline containing 0.05% Triton X-100 (PBST) and collected by centrifugation. The trichomes were stained in 0.1% (w/v) toluidine blue in PBST with gentle agitation at room temperature for 2 h and rinsed in PBST. For measurements, trichomes were placed on solidified 1.5% agarose on slides and covered with coverslips. Trichomes were viewed with white light, and images were obtained with a Zeiss Axiocam HRm camera mounted on a Zeiss Axioplan 2 Imaging microscope. Length measurements were obtained using Zeiss Axiovision software. At least 50 individual trichomes for each sample were analyzed for trichome size measurements. For genetic mapping, itb mutants were crossed to wild-type plants of a different ecotype. Plants with an itb phenotype were selected from the subsequent F2 populations. The alleles (and ecotype) used for the genetic mapping were: itb1-16 (RLD), itb2-28 (RLD), itb3-27 (RLD) and the itb4 1 zwi-3 double mutant (Col). The itb4-1 zwi-3 double mutant was used because of the unequivocal trichome phenotype and because zwi-3 was known to be unlinked to itb4-1. Genomic DNA from individual mutant plants was isolated following the instructions of the RED Extract-N-Amp™ plant PCR kit (Sigma, Saint Louis, MO, USA). The map positions of the itb mutations were determined relative to SSLPs (Bell and Ecker 1994, Lukowitz et al. 2000). Primer sequences for SSLP markers developed during the course of this study are given in Table 7. The genomic resources provided by TAIR (http://www.Arabidopsis.org/) were used to design the SSLP primers used for mapping. Specifically, we identified polymorphisms between Col and Ler using the information provided by Monsanto (St Louis, MO, USA) in the Cereon SNP database (http://www.arabidopsis.org/Cereon/index.jsp), and then tested other ecotypes for the same polymorphisms. To construct double mutants, the individual mutants were crossed and plants displaying one of the original mutant phenotypes were selected from the subsequent F2 population. The plants were self-pollinated, and putative double mutants were selected from the F3 population. Putative double mutants were confirmed by complementation tests with both of the original parents.
