!~ABS~! Phytochrome A (phyA) plays a primary role in initiating seedling de-etiolation and is the only plant photoreceptor known to be activated by far-red light (FR). The signaling intermediate FHY1 appears to either participate directly in relaying the phyA signal or to positively regulate a critical signaling event(s) downstream of phyA activation. Here we identify a homolog of FHY1 named FHL (FHY1-like) as a novel signaling factor essential for complete responsiveness to phyA. FHL possesses functional nuclear localization and nuclear export signals. Lines in which FHL function was abolished by insertional mutagenesis or attenuated by RNAi-mediated suppression displayed a weaker hyposensitivity to continuous FR than fhy1 null mutants and most reported phyA signaling mutants. However, hypocotyl elongation assays indicated that suppression of FHL expression in fhy1-3 caused an insensitivity of hypocotyl elongation to FR and blue light (B) indistinguishable from that seen in phyA. Real-time PCR indicates that in FR, FHY1 transcripts are approximately 15-fold more abundant than FHL transcripts. Although both FHY1 and FHL are capable of homo- and hetero-interaction via their C-termini, the ability of FHL overexpression to restore wild-type (WT) morphological and molecular phenotypes to fhy1-3 seedlings suggests that the extreme insensitivity to FR associated with suppression of FHL expression in fhy1-3 cannot be accounted for by a critical role for FHY1-FHL heterodimers in phyA signal transmission. Rather, we suggest that the relative abundances of FHY1 and FHL in WT plants account for the differences in the severity of fhy1 and fhl mutations. As for FHY1, FHL transcript accumulation is dependent on FHY3 and is decreased after exposure to FR, R or B light. These findings reiterate the prevalence of partial degeneracy in plant signaling networks that regulate responses crucial to survival.
!~RES~! The existence of a single homolog of FHY1 in the Arabidopsis genome was reported previously (CITATION; CITATION). 5′-RACE and RT-PCR analysis using mRNA extracted from 4 day-old etiolated seedlings confirmed that the gene encoding FHL (At5g02200) comprises two exons encoding 181 amino acids, as annotated in the database. Much of the difference in length between FHY1 (202 amino acids) and FHL arises from an approximately 30 amino acid N-terminal extension found in FHY1 but not in FHL (Figure 1a). A search of the EST database indicated several ESTs with homology to Arabidopsis FHY1 and FHL. The potato genome contains at least three members of the FHY1/FHL gene family, two of which (represented in Figure 1a by ESTs CK260880 and CK264717) encode proteins with slightly greater similarity to Arabidopsis FHL than to Arabidopsis FHY1. Likewise, an incomplete cDNA from tomato encodes a protein displaying 33.7% identity to FHL, but only 24.6% identity to FHY1 (Figure 1a). The expression of FHY1/FHL homologs in rice (Figure 1a) and Sorghum bicolor (CITATION) indicates that the gene family is also represented in monocot species. The most conserved regions in the alignment shown in Figure 1(a) correspond to the nuclear localization sequence (NLS) and a C-terminal motif found in septins, both of which are functional in FHY1 (CITATION). A nuclear export sequence (NES) recently shown to be functional in FHY1 (CITATION) is absolutely conserved in FHL (Figure 1a), but not in its putative homologs in potato, tomato and rice (Figure 1a). A region in Arabidopsis FHY1 (amino acids 132–152) proposed to bear significant homology to part of the PAS-A domain of phyA (CITATION) is not conserved in FHL or any of the proteins aligned in Figure 1(a). [[FIGURE]] A caveat of investigating the function of NLS and NES motifs in small proteins is that, especially when they are overexpressed, their diffusion through nuclear pores may confound interpretation of the localization pattern. This can be overcome by fusion to a larger fluorescent protein that increases the molecular mass to a size closer to the exclusion limit of the nuclear pore. To investigate the function of the NLS and NES motifs of FHL, the WT protein was fused to the C-terminus of a 73-kDa fusion of GFP to parsley chalcone synthase (pCHS-GFP). The resultant fusion protein pCHS-GFP-FHL is approximately 93 kDa. Mutants of FHL in which the NLS and NES motifs were substituted with alanine residues (AAAA) were also fused to the C-terminus of pCHS-GFP to generate the constructs pCHS-GFP-FHLnls and pCHS-GFP-FHLnes, respectively. As reported previously, transient expression of GFP (CITATION) and pCHS-GFP (CITATION) results in their distribution throughout the cytoplasm and nucleus (Figure 1b). Fusion of FHL to pCHS-GFP did not significantly affect the distribution of pCHS-GFP (Figure 1b). However, mutation of the NES motif in FHL caused apparently exclusively nuclear accumulation of the pCHS-GFP-FHLnes protein, whereas mutation of the NLS in FHL appeared to result in accumulation of pCHS-GFP-FHLnls exclusively in the cytosol (Figure 1b). This indicates that both of the NLS and NES motifs are functional in the context of the FHL protein. Therefore, pCHS-GFP-FHL, and thus by implication FHL, probably cycles between the nucleus and cytoplasm when expressed in onion epidermal cells. To evaluate the contribution of FHL to hypocotyl elongation, we screened a plant population (SALK_024320) that segregated a T-DNA insertion in the first exon of the FHL gene. PCR was used to identify lines homozygous for the mutation. The truncated protein expressed in the fhl-1 mutant comprises only 50% of full-length FHL. Under relatively high fluence FR (4.5 μmol m−2 sec−1), fhl-1 mutants possessed slightly, but significantly, longer hypocotyls than WT and phyB mutants (Figure 2a). Significantly reduced inhibition of hypocotyl elongation was also evident at 1.4 and 3.4 μmol m−2 sec−1 (Figure 2c). Unlike fhy1 null mutants (CITATION), fhl-1 nulls do not display significantly decreased sensitivity to the phyA-dependent block of greening in white light after de-etiolation in high intensity FR (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The fhy1-3 mutant lacks functional FHY1 protein and was previously referred to as pat3 (CITATION). Although hypocotyls of fhy1-3 seedlings grown in FR were longer than those of fhl-1, the absence of FHY1 does not render a hypocotyl phenotype as severe as that of a phyA null (Figure 2a; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The cotyledons of fhl-1 seedlings were more open than those of fhy1-3, but never completely folded downward as observed in seedlings with an intact phyA response (Figure 2a). This intermediate hypocotyl and cotyledon phenotype observed for fhl-1 mutants was evident in two WT lines transformed to express an RNAi transgene designed to specifically silence expression of FHL but not FHY1. Both Northern analysis (data not shown) and RT-PCR (Figure 2b) confirmed that in the four FHL RNAi lines for which data are presented, FHL expression was silenced. No FHL transcript was detected in the fhl-1 mutant (Figure 2b). Remarkably, silencing of FHL expression in the fhy1-3 background increased the severity of the FR hypocotyl elongation phenotype of fhy1-3 to the extent that hypocotyl lengths of two FHL-RNAi/fhy1-3 lines were indistinguishable from those of a phyA null mutant (Figure 2a). This was observed for both lines over a range of FR fluences (Figure 2c). This suggests that the incomplete insensitivities of fhy1-3 and fhl-1 to FR might arise at least in part from the abilities of either intermediate to compensate for the loss of the other. Although neither of the FHL-RNAi/fhy1-3 lines had open cotyledons, their cotyledons were more expanded than those of phyA seedlings (Figure 2a). All of the above genotypes displayed indistinguishable hypocotyl elongation when germinated and grown in darkness (Figure 2c), 35 μmol m−2 sec−1 continuous red light (R) or 20 μmol m−2 sec−1 continuous white light (data not shown). Therefore, as observed for all other bona fide phyA signaling intermediates, the fhl-1 phenotype is dependent on phyA activation and is not apparent under light wavelengths that activate other phytochromes sharing the same downstream targets as phyA. To further evaluate the partial redundancy between FHL and FHY1, epitope-tagged FHL and FHY1 proteins were expressed in fhy1-3 under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. An antibody raised against His-FHY1 also recognizes FHL and was used to correlate the abundance of FHL or FHY1 in fhy1-3 with the ability of the transgene to complement the mutation. Under the conditions used to detect tagged FHL and FHY1 proteins under 35S control, the antibody raised against His-FHY1 was not able to detect endogenous FHL or FHY1. At relatively high fluences of continuous FR (4.5 μmol m−2 sec−1), overexpression of 6myc-FHY1 (approximately 55 kDa) was associated with complementation of fhy1-3 (Figure 3a). Expression of HA-FHL (approximately 28 kDa) was at least as effective as 6myc-FHY1 in restoring the WT hypocotyl elongation phenotype to fhy1-3 (Figure 3a). At a lower fluence of FR (0.45 μmol m−2 sec−1), hypocotyl elongation was significantly reduced in two of the three HA-FHL/fhy1-3 lines in comparison with WT and 6myc-FHY1/fhy1-3 lines (Figure 3b) and in this case, there was a clear inverse relationship between HA-FHL abundance and hypocotyl length. This indicates that HA-FHL overexpression confers hypersensitivity to low-fluence FR. Cotyledon expansion and opening were also hypersensitive to FR in both of the lines that displayed significantly less hypocotyl elongation than the WT (Figure 3b). Therefore, FHL can substitute for FHY1 when expressed at adequate levels. Moreover, in the absence of FHY1, FHL normally limits the response capacity of the cascade that relays the phyA signal. The observation that overexpression of either HA-FHL or 6myc-FHY1 did not alter photoresponses in a phyA null background (Figure 3a) confirms that these FHL overexpression effects are dependent on phyA. [[FIGURE]] FHY1 is known to be essential for appropriate expression of a subset of phyA-regulated genes during photomorphogenesis (CITATION). To ascertain whether the relationships between FHL and FHY1 observed through characterization of morphological phenotypes are also manifested at the molecular level through the expression of genes unrelated to hypocotyl elongation and cotyledon expansion, we compared levels of transcripts encoding chalcone synthase (CHS), chlorophyll a/b-binding protein (CAB), ferredoxin NADP-oxidoreductase (PET H), plastocyanin (PET E), a xyloglucan endotransglycosylase (XTR7) and an asparagine synthetase (ASN1) in various genotypes after exposure of etiolated seedlings to FR for 3 and 18 h (Figure 4). Whereas CHS, CAB, PET H and PET E are upregulated by FR, XTR7 and ASN1 are negatively regulated by phyA. [[FIGURE]] The same relationships between FHY1 and FHL observed through assessing the effects of loss of either or both intermediates on seedling morphology (Figure 2) were evident at the level of phyA-regulated gene expression. Whereas the effects of fhl-1 or RNAi-mediated suppression of FHL on phyA-regulated gene expression are subtle and usually less severe than those observed in fhy1-3, suppression of FHL appeared to act synergistically with the fhy1-3 mutation in attenuating phyA signaling (Figure 4). Furthermore, consistent with the ability of FHL overexpression to compensate for the absence of FHY1 in morphological assays (Figure 3), expression of HA-FHL in the fhy1-3 background restored phyA-responsive gene expression to levels resembling those seen in WT seedlings (Figure 4). This molecular evidence substantiates the functional overlap between FHL and FHY1 in relaying the phyA signal that is suggested by morphological analyses of HA-FHL/fhy1-3 and FHL RNAi/fhy1-3 seedlings. In addition to activating responses to FR and R, loss of phyA and at least certain phyA-specific signaling intermediates (CITATION) confers hyposensitivity to B. As reported previously (CITATION), fhy1 mutants display reduced hypocotyl elongation in continuous B when compared with WT seedlings. This hyposensitivity to B is not as severe as that observed following mutation of CRY1, the primary B receptor in high-intensity B (Figure 5). Under high-fluence B (12 μmol m−2 sec−1), fhl-1 mutant seedlings and lines with RNAi-mediated suppression of FHL expression had hypocotyl lengths comparable to those of fhy1-3. Loss of FHL or FHY1 results in a phenotype intermediate between those observed in the WT and phyA backgrounds (Figure 5). Expression of FHL RNAi in the fhy1-3 background decreased the level of inhibition of hypocotyl elongation observed in either of the monogenic mutants so that hypocotyl lengths of FHL-RNAi/fhy1-3 seedlings were indistinguishable from phyA mutants (Figure 5). This suggests that both gene products may normally be essential for phyA-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl elongation in this intensity of B, although definitive evidence for this proposal requires analysis of the effects of fhl-1, fhy1-3 and FHL RNAi/fhy1-3 in a cry1/cry2 background. [[FIGURE]] The same lines used to show that FHL overexpression can complement the long hypocotyl phenotype of fhy1-3 in FR were used to examine the effects of ectopic FHL expression on fhy1-3 hypocotyl elongation in B (Figure 6a,b). Under relatively high fluence continuous B (12 μmol m−2 sec−1), HA-FHL expression was at least as effective as 6myc-FHY1 in restoring the WT hypocotyl elongation phenotype to fhy1-3 (Figure 6a). The possibility that HA-FHL overexpression might even confer hypersensitivity to B is supported by the observation that at a lower fluence of B (1.2 μmol m−2 sec−1), hypocotyl elongation was significantly less in two of the three HA-FHL/fhy1-3 lines than in comparable WT and 6myc-FHY1/fhy1-3 lines (Figure 6b). Overexpression of FHY1 did not appear to be associated with hypersensitivity of hypocotyl elongation to B, although definitive evidence of this proposal requires demonstration that our antibody has the same affinity for FHY1 and FHL. Nonetheless, it is clear that in both B and FR, FHL can substitute for FHY1 when expressed at adequate levels. Furthermore, in the absence of FHY1, FHL normally limits the response capacity of the cascade that relays the phyA signal. The observation that overexpression of either HA-FHL or 6myc-FHY1 did not confer hyposensitivity in a phyA null background (Figure 6a) confirms that these FHL overexpression effects in B are phyA-dependent and not reliant on cryptochrome activation. [[FIGURE]] The sequence similarity and genetic interactions between FHY1 and FHL prompted us to examine whether the two proteins might interact physically. Unfortunately, yeast two-hybrid assays indicated that both proteins activate transcription when fused to the yeast GAL4 DNA binding domain. This transcriptional activity is decreased by physical association of the proteins as bait and prey (data not shown). In vitro pull-down assays indicated that full-length FHL (Figure 7b) and full-length FHY1 (Figure 7c) form homodimers in vitro and that FHL and FHY1 are capable of heterodimerization (Figure 7d). Secondary structure predictions suggested that six and seven α-helices are likely to be fairly evenly spaced along the lengths of FHL and FHY1, respectively. Five classes of deletion mutants were constructed for each protein to investigate the roles of these predicted helices in homo- and hetero-dimerization (Figure 7a). The data demonstrate a critical role for the putative helix corresponding to the septin-related domain (CITATION) in homodimerization of FHL (Figure 7b) and FHY1 (Figure 7c) as well as heterodimerization of both proteins (Figure 7d). This fragment alone is incapable of interaction with either of the full-length proteins. The C-termini of both proteins (helices 3–6 of FHL and helices 4–7 of FHY1) were adequate for homo- and hetero-interactions, albeit with slightly reduced affinity in comparison with full-length protein fusions (Figure 7). No determinants of dimerization appear to reside in the N-terminal halves of either FHL or FHY1. [[FIGURE]] Therefore, FHY1 and FHL are capable of forming homocomplexes with themselves as well as forming heterocomplexes with one another. The 87 residues closest to the C-terminus of FHL are sufficient for its homo- and hetero-dimerization with full-length FHY1. The 94 residues closest to the C-terminus of FHY1 are sufficient for its homodimerization. For both proteins, the helix closest to the C-terminus is critical for homo- and hetero-dimerization, but requires the adjacent two helices (in the case of FHL) or the adjacent three helices (in the case of FHY1) for its interaction with a full-length partner. Previous studies indicated that FHY1 transcript abundance is negatively regulated by R and FR light (CITATION; CITATION), and that FHY1 transcript levels are severely attenuated in fhy3 mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Real-time quantitative RT-PCR was used to evaluate the roles of light and the fhy3-1 mutation on FHY1 and FHL transcript levels. Levels of FHL and FHY1 were normalized relative to the abundance of ACTIN2 transcript and the levels of both transcripts in etiolated WT seedlings was arbitrarily assigned a value of 1. Monochromatic FR, R and B all decreased FHL and FHY1 transcript levels to around 60–70% of their levels in darkness (Figure 8). In etiolated fhy3-1 mutant seedlings, FHL and FHY1 transcript levels were around 43 and 27% of their levels in dark-grown WT seedlings, respectively (Figure 8). This indicates that FHY3 is required for normal accumulation of both transcripts even in the absence of light. FR, R and B all caused a further reduction of FHY1 transcript levels to <10% of the level in etiolated WT seedlings (Figure 8b), although for FHL, a slight additive effect of light on the fhy3-1 effect was only observed in R (Figure 8a). [[FIGURE]] As the PCRs for amplification of cDNA derived from the FHL, FHY1 and ACT2 transcripts worked with comparable efficiencies and all standard curves were prepared using data from FR-treated Col seedlings, we used the expression 240-Ct to broadly estimate relative differences in the abundances of the three transcripts (CITATION). The threshold cycle (Ct) is the fractional PCR cycle at which a significant increase in signal above the baseline is first detected. The lower the Ct value, the greater the level of gene expression. The mean values and standard deviations of Ct values were 22.53 ± 0.45, 24.37 ± 0.46 and 28.23 ± 0.47 for the ACT2, FHY1 and FHL genes, respectively. Based on these mean Ct values, we estimate that in 4 day-old FR-grown seedlings, the FHY1 transcript is approximately 15-fold more abundant than the FHL transcript and approximately fourfold less abundant than the ACT2 transcript. In terms of absolute concentration, it seems likely that levels of the FHL transcript in irradiated fhy3-1 seedlings are probably comparable to those of FHY1 mRNA. The same trends were observed when the effects of monochromatic light and the fhy3-1 mutation were determined by Northern analysis using full-length FHL and FHY1 cDNA probes (Figure 8). A greater abundance of FHY1 mRNA compared with FHL mRNA is consistent with the difficulty we experienced in reliable detection of FHL by Northern hybridization. Under our hybridization conditions, both probes detected double bands. For the FHY1 probe, the upper band appeared to result from non-specific cross-hybridization. By contrast, the levels of both fragments detected by the FHL probe are negatively regulated by R and FR light and by the fhy3-1 mutation (Figure 8a). The significance of the apparent existence of two FHL transcripts requires further investigation, but their relative levels do not appear to be regulated by FHY3 or the availability of light.
!~MM~! The fhl-1, fhy1-3 (Zeidler et al., 2001, 2004), fhy3-1 (CITATION) and phyA-211 (CITATION) mutants and all transgenic lines used in this study are in the Columbia background and were compared with WT Col-0 in all analyses. Although the hy4-1 (cry1-1, formerly called hy4-2.23N; CITATION) mutant is in the Ler background, hypocotyl elongation of the Ler and Col ecotypes is indistinguishable under the fluences of B used (data not shown, CITATION). Homozygous fhl-1 seedlings were selected from a segregating population (SALK_024320) obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA). This putative null allele contains a T-DNA insertion in the first exon of the FHL gene (At5g02200). The fhy1-3 allele was previously named pat3 (Zeidler et al., 2001, 2004). Surface-sterilized seeds were germinated on solidified Murashige and Skoog media (pH 5.7) without any supplemental carbohydrate. After 4 days of incubation in darkness at 4°C, the plates were exposed to white light (20 μmol m−2 sec−1) for 1 h and then incubated in darkness for 24 h at 22°C. To assess seedling morphological phenotypes, plates were either kept in darkness or transferred to constant monochromatic light using light sources described previously (CITATION). Hypocotyl elongation and cotyledon opening were assessed after 4-day growth. To assess the effects of light on transcript and protein levels, stratified seeds that had been exposed to a pulse of white light were kept in darkness at 22°C for 3 days, before transfer to the designated light condition. After light treatment, seedlings were harvested immediately, frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −70°C until RNA or protein extraction. Fluence rates for the various light treatments were as follows: FR high fluence treatment, 4.5 μmol m−2 sec−1; FR low fluence treatment, 0.45 μmol m−2 sec−1, R treatment, 35 μmol m−2 sec−1; B high fluence treatment, 12 μmol m−2 sec−1; B low fluence treatment, 1.2 μmol m−2 sec−1. For RT-PCR to assess RNAi-mediated inhibition of FHL transcript accumulation, total RNA was extracted from 4 day-old etiolated seedlings using the RNeasy Plant mini kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA). Reverse transcription was performed using the Advantage RT-for-PCR kit (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA), according to the manufacturer's instructions. The oligos 5′-ATGATAGTTGCTGTGGAATCTC-3′ and 5′-CATCATGAGTGTAGAAAAGTACT-3′ were used for FHL amplification. The oligos 5′-TAAAGAGACATCGTTTCCATG-3′ and 5′-CAAGAATAGAGAATGAAGCTGAG-3′ were used for ACTIN8 amplification. PCR involved the following temperature profile: 95°C (3 min); 95°C (30 sec), 60°C (30 sec), 72°C (30 sec) – five cycles; 95°C (30 sec), 58°C (30 sec), 72°C (30 sec) – 25 cycles; 72°C (5 min). The PCR products were resolved on a 1.2% agarose gel. ACTIN8 amplification was visualized by EtBr staining. FHL amplification was assessed by southern transfer to Hybond N+ membrane (Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK) and probing with 32P-labeled FHL cDNA probe spanning the entire coding sequence of FHL. Northern analysis was performed as described previously (CITATION). Probes used to assess the abundances of light-regulated transcripts were described elsewhere (CITATION). Fragments encoding the complete open reading frames of FHY1 and FHL were used as probes. Hybridization was performed at 65°C over night and blots were washed once with 2X SSC, 0.1% SDS and twice times with 0.1X SSC, 0.1% SDS at 65°C. For Western analysis involving total protein extracts, seedlings were ground under liquid nitrogen and the powder resuspended in 5X SDS-PAGE sample buffer. Immunoblotting was performed as described previously (CITATION). Polyclonal anti-FHY1 antiserum was obtained from rabbits immunized with hexahistidine-tagged FHY1 expressed and purified from Escherichia coli strain BL21 (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). Monoclonal anti-α-tubulin (clone DM 1A) was obtained from Sigma (St Louis, MO, USA). Anti-phyA monoclonal antibody mAA1 was kindly donated by Dr A. Nagatani. A full-length FHL cDNA was prepared by RT-PCR using RNA extracted from 4-day-old etiolated seedlings. The cDNA was amplified using the oligos 5′-ACGCTCGAGCGATGATAGTTGCTGTGGAATC-3′ and 5′-CGCGAGCTCTGTTTACATCATGAGTGTAG-3′. The product was cloned into pGEM-T (Promega, Madison, WI, USA). All transgenes were placed under the regulation of the CaMV 35S promoter. To generate the HA-FHL construct, a single copy of the hemaglutinin (HA) tag (MYPYDVPDYASL) was fused to the N-terminus of FHL by PCR and cloned into the binary transformation vector VIP96a, a derivative of a vector conferring kanamycin resistance (CITATION) to which XbaI, BglII, AscI, PacI, SpeI, EcoRI and StuI sites had been introduced into the multicloning site between the CaMV 35S promoter and the pea RBCS E9 polyA addition sequence (S.G. Møller, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK, personal communication). For the FHL-RNAi construct, two fragments of FHL genomic DNA were amplified by PCR. The first genomic fragment, comprising the first exon and the first intron, was amplified using the oligos 5′-TGTGGAATCTCTAGACACAAGCA-3′ and 5′-TAACTCGAGTCGTGGTAGCTTCTTTGGAA3′. The second genomic fragment, comprising the first exon, was amplified using the oligos 5′-TAAGGCCTGAATCTCTAGACACAAGCAAA-3′ and 5′-AACTCGAGCTTGGTTGCTGACACTCCAC-3′. This enabled it to be cloned in the reverse orientation after the intron of the first fragment. The two PCR fragments were digested with XbaI/XhoI and XhoI/StuI, respectively, and ligated into XbaI/StuI-digested pVIP96a. A binary vector myc-pBA was constructed containing a multicloning site and six copies of the myc epitope tag ligated into the AscI and PacI sites of the vector pBA002 that confers Basta resistance (CITATION). This introduced unique BsrGI, AatII, SmaI, BstBI, BamHI, SnaBI, AvrII and MluI sites to enable translational fusions upstream and downstream of the 6xmyc tag. Full-length FHY1 cDNA amplified using the oligos 5′-CATCCCGGGTTATGCCTGAAGTGGAAGTG-3′ and 5′-CATCCTAGGCCGGGTTACAGCATTAGCGTTGAG-3′ was cloned into the SmaI and AvrII sites of myc-pBA. The 6myc-FHY1 fusion was transferred as an AscI/PacI fragment into VIP96a to generate the 6xmyc-FHY1 construct. Binary vector constructs were transformed into WT (Col) or fhy1-3 (Basta resistant) backgrounds using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated floral dip method and transformants were selected on media supplemented with 50 mg l−1 kanamycin (Sigma). For each line, two independent transformants were selected for further analysis using the T3 generation. Mutations of the NLS and NES motifs in FHL were generated using the oligos 5′-CTCCGGCCGCAGCTCTCCATGCAGAAGAATCAGAC-3′/5′-GACCGGCCGCGCTTGTGTCTAGAGATTCCAC-3′ and 5′-CTCCGGCCGCAGCTCCAAAACACTTTTGTTCTGAG-3′/5′-GACCGGCCGCGTATGATTCTTCAGCATGCAG-3′, respectively. Both 12KKRK15 to 12AAAA15 and 23LLPL26 to 23AAAA26 mutations were confirmed by sequencing. The FHL, FHLnls and FHLnes cDNAs were cloned into the vector pCHS-GFP to generate the constructs pCHS-GFP-FHL, pCHS-GFP-FHLnls and pCHS-GFP-FHLnes, respectively. This enabled fusion of WT and mutant FHL cDNAs to the C-terminus of a fusion of GFP to parsley chalcone synthase. These constructs, as well as the pCHS-GFP control, were transiently expressed in onion epidermal cells as described previously (Zeidler et al., 2001, 2004), and the subcellular localization of the transgene products visualized by fluorescence microscopy. cDNAs encoding full-length and deletion mutants of FHL and FHY1 were amplified by PCR and cloned into pMAL-C2 (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA, USA) or pGEX-4T-1 (Amersham) for fusion to the C-termini of MBP and GST, respectively. Deletion mutant FHL fusions to the C-terminus of MBP were: FHL(Δsep): residues 1–158; FHL(ΔC): residues 1–93; FHL(ΔN): residues 94–181; FHL(ΔNΔsep): residues 94–158; and FHL(sep): residues 159–181. Deletion mutant FHY1 fusions to the C-terminus of MBP were: FHY1(Δsep): residues 1–166; FHY1(ΔC): residues 1–107; FHY1(ΔN): residues 108–202; FHY1(ΔNΔsep): residues 108–166; and FHY1(sep): residues 167–202. All constructs were transformed into E. coli BL21 cells that were treated with isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactoside to induce fusion protein expression. Treated cells were broken by a French pressure cell press in purification buffer (20 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.4; 200 mm NaCl; 1 mm EDTA; 1% Triton X-100; 2 mm phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride) containing a proteinase inhibitor cocktail (Roche, Mannheim, Germany). Proteins were bound to amylose resin (New England Biolabs) for MBP-fused proteins and glutathione Sepharose 4B (Amersham) for GST-fused proteins, washed with buffer (phosphate-buffered saline; 1% Triton X-100), and eluted from the column using purification buffer containing 10 mm maltose (for MBP-fused proteins) or 10 mm glutathione (for GST-fused proteins). For in vitro pull-down assays, 1 μg of bait protein (full-length or deletion mutants of FHL and FHY1) and 1 μg of prey protein (GST-FHL or GST-FHY1) were incubated at 25°C for 2 h in binding buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5; 100 mm NaCl; 1.0% Triton X-100; 0.5 mmβ-mercaptoethanol) and further incubated with glutathione sepharose 4B at 25°C for 2 h. After washing six times with buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5; 100 mm NaCl; 1% Triton X-100), pull-down proteins were separated on 6% SDS-polyacrylamide gels and detected by Western blotting using anti-MBP antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA, USA). Complexes were visualized by chemiluminescence with horseradish peroxidase-coupled second antibodies (Amersham).
