!~ABS~! A minimum of four soluble starch synthase families have been documented in all starch-storing green plants. These activities are involved in amylopectin synthesis and are extremely well conserved throughout the plant kingdom. Mutants or transgenic plants defective for SSII and SSIII isoforms have been previously shown to have a large and specific impact on the synthesis of amylopectin while the function of the SSI type of enzymes has remained elusive. We report here that Arabidopsis mutants, lacking a plastidial starch synthase isoform belonging to the SSI family, display a major and novel type of structural alteration within their amylopectin. Comparative analysis of β-limit dextrins for both wild type and mutant amylopectins suggests a specific and crucial function of SSI during the synthesis of transient starch in Arabidopsis leaves. Considering our own characterization of SSI activity and the previously described kinetic properties of maize SSI, our results suggest that the function of SSI is mainly involved in the synthesis of small outer chains during amylopectin cluster synthesis.
!~RES~! Five loci corresponding to starch synthases have been detected in the genome of A. thaliana: AtGBS1 (At1g32900), AtSS1 (At5g24300), AtSS2 (At3g01180), AtSS3 (At1g11720) and AtSS4 (At4g18240). These loci are related to GBSSI, SSI, SSII, SSIII and SSIV type of enzymes respectively (according to http://www.starchmetnet.org/GeneList/GeneListFrameset.htm). A sixth locus (At5g65685), possibly related to the starch synthase family, was detected in the genome of this plant. Although this sequence appears to be related to starch synthases, it lacks one of the highly conserved regions found in all starch synthase enzymes (this gene therefore may not encode an active soluble starch synthase). The other loci define five distinct classes of starch synthases (CITATION). One class represents GBSSI, whereas the other classes correspond to soluble starch synthases putatively involved in amylopectin synthesis. Gene AtSS1 is located on chromosome V and is composed of 15 exons and 14 introns encoding a protein of 652 amino acid with a predicted mass of 72 081 Da and shows a high level of similarity with SSI from other plant sources (from 55% identity with maize SSI to 64% identity with potato SSI). Bioinformatic analysis predicted the presence of a chloroplast-targeting signal consisting of the first 49 amino acids giving a 67-kDa mature protein (ChloroP at http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP/;CITATION). Two independent mutant alleles named Atss1-1 and Atss1-2 corresponding to T-DNA insertions at gene AtSS1 were detected in the mutant collections generated at URGV (Versailles, France; http://flagdb-genoplante-info.infobiogen.fr/projects/fst/, CITATION) and Syngenta (SAIL collection: http://www.syngentabiotech.com/; CITATION) respectively. Single homozygous mutant plants were selected and were analysed in detail at the molecular level and for starch accumulation. In both mutant lines, the T-DNA insertion is located in the first intron at position +392 and +337 from the start codon for Atss1-1 and Atss1-2 respectively (Figure 1). Segregation values observed for kanamycin (URGV line) and Basta (Syngenta line) resistance (three-fourth resistant and one-fourth sensitive individuals after self-pollination of a heterozygous individual) indicate that both lines contain only one insertion of the T-DNA in their nuclear genomes. RT-PCR experiments showed that a modified messenger corresponding to gene AtSS1 is still expressed in Atss1-1 and Atss1-2. However, it is unlikely that this transcript could be translated to give an active protein as its structure is modified as shown in Figure 1. Indeed no amplification was obtained when RT-PCR experiments were performed on a region spanning the insertion site of the T-DNA. Hybrid fragments containing both T-DNA and AtSS1 were amplified when RT-PCRs were performed with AtSS1 and T-DNA-specific primers (data not shown). Intron 1 is either not correctly removed during the splicing process or the synthesis of the downstream sequence of AtSS1 (downstream of the T-DNA insertion site) is initiated within the T-DNA itself giving a hybrid transcript. [[FIGURE]] To test whether a protein corresponding to SSI is still present or not in the mutant lines, Western blot analysis was carried out with a rabbit antiserum raised again the peptide ‘GTGGLRDTVENC’ corresponding to a highly conserved region located at the C-terminal end of all known starch synthases. This antibody has been previously shown to specifically recognize starch synthases from both potato and Chlamydomonas (CITATION; CITATION). A very similar sequence can be found in SSI protein (GTGGLRDTVENF). A band with a mass of approximately 67 kDa (the size of the mature protein) is clearly missing in the leaves of both Atss1-1 and Atss1-2 mutant lines (Figure 2c) but is still present in Atss3-1 and Atss4-1 mutant lines defective in SSIII and SSIV types of starch synthase respectively (Figure 2c) and in the Atss2-1 mutant line defective in SSII (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Soluble starch synthase activities were tested both by zymograms and in vitro assays in wild type and mutant lines. In the leaves of the wild-type ecotype, two main starch synthase activities were detected by zymograms (Figure 2a,b). These two activities are dependent on the addition of ADP-glucose in the incubation buffer (data not shown). One activity shows a very low mobility and remains situated at the edge of the stacking gel. The second activity displays a higher electrophoretic mobility, which may indicate a lower affinity of the enzyme for glycogen. The latter is missing in both Atss1-1 and Atss1-2 mutant lines, while the former is lacking in the mutant lines of Arabidopsis affected at gene AtSS3 (locus At1g11720; data not shown). These two bands have remained unaffected by mutations at genes AtSS2 (At3g01180) and AtSS4 (At4g18240) (data not shown). Therefore, these low and high migrating bands have been named SSIII and SSI respectively. No other soluble starch synthase activities can be detected by this zymogram technique (even when highly sensitive zymograms were performed with 14C-labelled ADP-glucose, data not shown). Serial dilutions of the extract were performed to assess the detection limit of the highly sensitive radiolabelled zymograms. These were detectable down to 0.1% of the undiluted SSI activity. Two main reasons can explain the absence of other starch synthase activities on glycogen-containing zymograms: (i) other soluble starch synthases may not be expressed in the leaves of Arabidopsis or expressed at such low level that their detection is not possible with this method; (ii) glycogen might not be used as an efficient primer by these soluble starch synthases. A last explanation is that SSII and SSIV functions might not be restricted to glucan elongation in the leaves of Arabidopsis. Further work is required to answer this question. Soluble starch synthase activity was determined by in vitro assays with radio-labelled ADP-glucose (14C). Total SS activity is decreased by approximately 65% in Atss1-1 and 72% in Atss1-2 lines (Table 1). This result correlates the observation performed on glycogen-containing zymograms that show the absence of one of the two major soluble starch synthase activities in both mutant lines. A chloroplast-enriched leaf extract was produced in order to determine intracellular localization of soluble starch synthases (these activities are detectable on a zymogram). To test the purity of the chloroplast-enriched extract, plastid integrity was checked using optical microscopy (Supplementary Material). Furthermore, starch phosphorylase and β-amylase activities was tested on zymograms (intracellular localization of these enzymes has already been described in other papers: Zeeman et al., 1998, 2004) (Supplementary Material). Our results indicate that both SSIII and SSI activities are localized within chloroplasts and are likely to be active during starch metabolism in Arabidopsis leaves. Other starch-metabolizing enzymes remain unaffected by a mutation at the AtSS1 locus. This was shown by both zymograms and in vitro enzyme assays for hydrolases, branching enzymes, pullulanases, starch-phosphorylases, phosphoglucomutase and ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (Figure 3; Table 1). Moreover, no modification of GBSSI content in starch can be detected between wild type and mutant lines (Supplementary Material). From these results, we can conclude that mutations in AtSS1 specifically affect the activity of SSI in Arabidopsis leaves without significantly disturbing any other starch-metabolizing enzyme. [[FIGURE]] To get a better view on the biochemical properties of SSI, the recombinant enzyme was produced in E. coli. A cDNA corresponding to the whole coding sequence of SSI was amplified and introduced in a destination vector (pDEST15) in order to add a GST tag to the N-terminal end of the recombinant protein. This allowed its purification by affinity chromatography performed on a glutathione-substituted column. After purification of the recombinant protein, the zymogram technique for soluble starch synthases and hydrolases was used to test whether SSI is still active and to select for fractions devoid of any endogenous elongation and hydrolytic activities (Supplementary Material). The Km for ADP-glucose measured on glycogen as a primer is 0.075 mm. It is on the same order of magnitude as for maize SSI (0.1 mm; CITATION). The activity of the recombinant SSI was tested on several glucan primers ranging from maltose to maize amylopectin. The results are summarized in Table 2. The activity level of recombinant SSI was expressed relative to the number of available NREs for the different acceptor molecules used in this test because each NRE potentially represents a substrate for the enzyme (inner glucose residues cannot be used as substrate for the enzyme). While the number of NRE was precisely calculated for malto-oligosaccharides (DP2–DP7) it has only been estimated for maize β-limit dextrins (BLD), maize amylopectin and rabbit liver glycogen based on the characteristics commonly accepted for these molecules (see Table 2 for more details). SSI activity regularly increases with the size of the acceptor malto-oligosaccharide, although maltose does not represent an effective substrate for the recombinant enzyme. However, branched glucans represent much better substrates for the enzyme as witnessed by the higher level of activity measured with BLD when compared with DP2 and DP3 and glycogen when compared with DP7. The average outer chain length (OCL) of branched glucans clearly influences the activity of SSI. While SSI is strongly active on glycogen (OCL = 7–8), it is less active on maize amylopectin (OCL = 12–14) and much less active on maize BLD (OCL = 2.5). The same behaviour has been described for maize SSI (CITATION) indicating that both enzymes are closely related and might have the same function in both plants. The activity of SSI was also tested on the Arabidopsis amylopectin purified from both the wild type and the Atss1-1 mutant lines. SSI is almost four times more active on wild-type amylopectin suggesting that the structure of mutant amylopectin is modified and not compatible with the optimal activity of SSI. These modifications are likely to concern the most outer chains within amylopectin that are expected to define the best available substrates for SSI. OCL, average outer chain length; Ø, not applicable. aThe final concentration of the glucan was 10 mg ml−1 except for amylopectin purified from the wild type and the mutant (Atss1-1) Arabidopsis lines: 1 mg ml−1. bThe activity measured for SSI has been expressed to the estimated number of non-reducing ends (NREs) available to the enzyme during the reaction for each substrate (nmol min−1 mg−1 10−18 NREs). For malto-oligosaccharides (DP2–DP7) the number of NREs that is actually equivalent to the concentration of the molecule within the reaction buffer has been precisely calculated. However, this value has only been estimated for amylopectin, β-limit dextrins (BLD) and glycogen. The number of NREs for amylopectin and BLD was estimated taking into consideration the following parameters: 105 glucose residues per amylopectin molecule with an average branching level of 6%. Amylopectin β-amylolysis limit = 55% (i.e. 45% of remaining material after the digestion of amylopectin by β-amylase). For glycogen: 5.5 × 104 glucose residues per molecule with an average branching level of 9%. cAmylopectin was purified by size exclusion chromatography on sepharose CL-2B column. Germination percentages, rates of growth, flowering capacities and formation of siliques were recorded for Atss1-1 and Atss1-2 mutant lines. All these parameters were comparable with those of the wild-type reference strain. Starch levels and structure were also compared with those of the wild-type reference. Interruption of the AtSS1 locus led to a near-23% decrease in leaf starch level measured at the end of the illuminated period (Table 3). However, both the wild type and the mutant plants were essentially devoid of starch at the end of the dark period. No accumulation of water-soluble α-glucans was recorded in this line. The λmax of the iodine–polysaccharide complex measured for the total starch (after lipid removal) was slightly increased in the mutant (from 562 nm in wild type to 567 nm in Atss1-1) suggesting the presence of a higher level of amylose (Table 3). Size exclusion chromatography performed on sepharose CL-2B columns (Figure 4) and subsequent amyloglucosidase assay of the fractionated glucans demonstrated that the amylose content increased from 19% of the total starch in the wild-type line to 31% in the mutant (Table 3). Amylopectin accumulation was decreased by about 33% in the mutant line. However, if one expresses amylose content relative to the amount of leaf material there is no significant increase in this particular polysaccharide fraction. Thus, the increase in the amylose-to-amylopectin ratio (0.26 in wild type to 0.45 in mutant) occurs simply because of reduced amylopectin synthesis and not because of a substantial increase in amylose synthesis. λmax, wavelength at the maximal absorbance of the iodine–polysaccharide complex; FW, fresh weight; WSP, water-soluble polysaccharides. aCalculation based on Student's two-sample t-test; Ø, not applicable. [[FIGURE]] The λmax of the amylopectin–iodine interaction is only slightly increased in the starch of the Atss1-1 and Atss1-2 mutant lines (Table 3; Figure 4). To determine whether structural modifications occur in mutant amylopectin, this polymer from both mutant sources was subjected to complete enzymatic debranching. The chain length (CL) distribution was then determined by FACE after coupling with APTS and/or by high performance anion exchange chromatography with pulsed amperometric detection (HPAEC-PAD) (Figure 5). Similar results were obtained with both techniques. The wild-type amylopectin showed a polymodal distribution of CL with a maximum at DP = 11, 12 (Figure 5a,d). This type of CL distribution for amylopectin is commonly observed throughout the plant kingdom. However, the CL distribution is profoundly modified in the mutant amylopectin and has become unimodal (although a small secondary peak might be observed at DP = 7; Figure 5b,e). DP = 13, 14 and 15 are the most abundant glucans in the amylopectin of the mutant while chains of DP = 8 to 12 are dramatically reduced (Figure 5c,f). Conversely, chains of DP = 17–20 are significantly increased in the mutant amylopectin as shown in Figure 5(c,f). This kind of CL distribution has never been recorded in plants. [[FIGURE]] The amylopectin structure for both WS and Atss1-1 mutant was analysed after β-amylolysis. β-amylase is an exoenzyme that releases maltose from the NRE of a glucan after the cleavage of α-1,4 linkages. However, this enzyme is unable to digest the branches and stops two to three residues from the branch points (α-1-6 bonds). Therefore, the outer chains of amylopectin are almost completely degraded after β-amylolysis while internal chains are degraded to the most outer branch point leading to the production of so-called BLD. CL distributions of the corresponding BLD was established by HPAEC-PAD and are presented in Figure 6(c,d) for wild type and mutant amylopectin respectively. The differential profiles corresponding to wild type and mutant amylopectin are shown in Figure 6(e,f) respectively. A distinct excess of DP < 10 chains can be observed in both lines. On the contrary, the number of chains of up to 30 glucose residues are reduced, with the notable exception of DP = 17, 18 and 19 in the wild-type amylopectin. This result was reproduced in two independent experiments indicating that the excess of DP = 17, 18 and 19 chains is not an artefact but rather represents a specific feature that discriminates β-amylolysis susceptibility between wild type and mutant amylopectins. CL distributions of wild type and mutant BLD are different as witnessed by the differential profile in Figure 6(g) that shows more chains of DP < 10 and less chains of 11 < DP < 24 in the mutant polysaccharide. [[FIGURE]] The branching level of amylopectin, measured by methylation analysis, remained unaffected in Atss1-1 (8.0 ± 0.3% in wild type and 7.0 ± 1.3% in Atss1-1; these values were calculated from two independent experiments). The impact of the mutation on both the crystallinity and the morphology of starch granules was studied by both wide angle X-ray scattering and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Despite the strong modification of the amylopectin structure and the increase in the amylase-to-amylopectin ratio in the mutant starch, crystallinity levels and allomorph configurations were basically the same (both wild type and mutant starches display a B-type crystallinity whose level is of 37 ± 5%). TEM observations of ultra thin slices of starch granules and subsequent image analysis have shown that the granule shape becomes slightly more elongated (Figure 7a,b). This feature has already been described for amylose-enriched starches from maize (CITATION). Nevertheless, no strong modification of the starch granule morphology was observed. Image analysis was performed on 1000 granules. Each sample indicates that the average surface of the mutant granules is lower than that of the wild-type granules. Figure 7(c) is a differential diagram that represents the difference in the number of granules between wild type and mutant lines for several classes of granule surfaces expressed in μm2. This diagram indicates that, on average, there are more small starch granules in the mutant than in the wild-type line. [[FIGURE]] The expression of SSI in the plant was tested by semiquantitative RT-PCR. This experiment was performed with several tissues (leaves, flowers and stems). Our results indicate that SSI is expressed at similar levels throughout the plant (Supplementary Material). This result closely correlates with that of MPSS data generated for Arabidopsis (available at http://mpss.udel.edu/at/java.html). Moreover, the expression pattern of SSI in the leaves was established by semiquantitative RT-PCR through a 12 h day/12 h night cycle (Supplementary Material). It was found that the level of mRNA is at maximum levels at the end of the illuminated period and progressively decreases during the night down to a minimum level 3 h before lights are turned on (three independent experiments). These results closely match those described for transcriptomics experiments in short- and long-day periods (available at http://www.starchmetnet.org/Datapages/AtSS1/AtSS1Frameset.htm). This suggests that the increase in SSI mRNA level anticipates the onset of light. Nevertheless, the observed oscillation at the mRNA level correlated neither with fluctuations in protein content (Western blot) nor with those of enzyme activity levels (zymogram) (Supplementary Material). Therefore, SSI seems to be regulated by some additional unidentified post-transcriptional mechanisms in Arabidopsis leaves.
!~MM~! ADP [U-14C] glucose, CL-2B sepharose column and Percoll were obtained from Amersham Biosciences (Orsay, France). ADP-glucose was from Sigma (Lyon, France). Starch assay kit was purchased from Enzytec (Toulouse, France). Wild type (Wassilewskija, WS and Columbia, Col-0) and mutant lines of A. thaliana were obtained from the T-DNA mutant collections generated at URGV, INRA, Versailles (CITATION; CITATION) and Syngenta (CITATION). Standard procedures were employed for plant germination and growth. The plants were grown on peat-based compost (seeds were previously incubated at 4°C before sowing) under 8 h dark/16 h light cycle with temperature ranging from 16°C (during the night) to 21°C during the illuminated period. Approximately 2 g of fresh tissue was harvested in the middle of the light phase (see culture conditions described above) for total RNA extraction with the Plant RNeasy kit (Qiagen, Courtabouef, France) following the supplier's instructions. Twenty nanograms of purified total RNA was used to perform RT-PCR amplifications using the One Step RT-PCR kit (Qiagen). Three different regions surrounding the T-DNA insertion site were targeted for amplification: upstream, downstream and spanning the T-DNA insertion site. The following primer pairs were used: Upstream region (305 bp fragment) primers – SS5for51: 5′-AACAACCAGACGAAATCAAACA-3′ and SS5rev5: 5′-AAGCCAAGAACGGAGCCAGAAC-3′. Spanning region (286 bp fragment) primers – AtSS5for1: 5′-TTTCCGTCCGATCGCCAGTCTC-3′ and AtSS5rev1: 5′-TACGCCAAAGTCAGCCATTACAA-3′. Downstream region (554 bp fragment) primers – SS5for32: 5′-ATGTTTGTGGTTCTTTGCCGATAG-3′ and SS5rev32: 5′-CCACCCGACTGCTCCATACC-3′. A full account of amyloglucosidase assays and λmax (maximal absorbance wavelength of the iodine–polysaccharide complex) measures can be found in CITATION. Starch and water-soluble glucan contents in leaves were determined as described in CITATION. Arabidopsis leaves were harvested at the end of the light period. Approximately 10 g of fresh material was homogenized using a Tissue Tearor (Biospec Products, Inc., Bartlesville, OK, USA) in 30 ml of the following buffer: 100 mm 3-(N-morpholino) propanesulphonic acid (MOPS), pH 7.2, 5 mm EDTA, 10% (v/v) ethanediol. The homogenate was filtered through two layers of Miracloth and centrifuged for 15 min at 4°C and 4000 g. The pellet was resuspended in 30 ml Percoll 90% (v/v) and centrifuged for 40 min at 4°C and 10 000 g. The starch pellet was washed six times with distilled sterile water (10 min at 4°C and 10 000 g between each wash). Starch was finally stored at 4°C in 20% ethanol. Starch (1.5–2.0 mg) was dissolved in 500 μl of 10 mm NaOH and subsequently applied to a Sepharose CL-2B column (0.5 cm i.d. × 65 cm), which was equilibrated and eluted with 10 mm NaOH. Fractions of 300 μl were collected at a rate of one fraction per 1.5 min. Glucans in the fractions were detected by their reaction with iodine and levels of amylopectin and amylose were determined by amyloglucosidase assays. Amylopectin CL distribution was established by HPAEC-PAD (Dionex, Voisins Le Bretonneux, France) after complete debranching. A complete description of this technique can be found in CITATION. Debranching procedure is as follows: after purification on sepharose CL-2B column, 500 μg of amylopectin was dialysed against distilled water and subsequently lyophilized. The amylopectin pellet was resuspended in 1 ml of 55 mm sodium acetate, pH 3.5, and incubated overnight at 42°C with 20 U of isoamylase (Hayashibara Biochemical Laboratories, Okayama, Japan) and 1 U of pullulanase (Sigma). Salts were subsequently removed by running the sample through an ‘Extract-clean’ Carbograph column (Alltech, Deerfield, IL, USA). After purification on sepharose CL-2B column, 500 μg of amylopectin was dialysed against distilled water and lyophilized. The amylopectin pellet was resuspended in 500 μl of 55 mm sodium acetate, pH 3.5, and incubated for 4 h at 30°C with 17 U of β-amylase from sweet potato (Sigma). To ensure complete digestion, same amount of β-amylase was added to the sample for a further 20 h incubation (production of reducing power is monitored during the reaction using 3,5-dinitrosalicylic acid assay at 540 nm). Enzymatic reaction was stopped by boiling the sample for 5 min. The sample was then debranched as described above by isoamylase (20 U) and pullulanase (1 U) and the corresponding glucans were analysed by HPAEC-PAD chromatography (Dionex). Branching level of amylopectin was measured by methylation analysis. Amylopectin (200 μg) was dissolved in 300 μl of anhydrous dimethyl sulphoxide at 80°C for 1 h. Methylation was performed with 500 μl iodomethane in the presence of 50 mg NaOH. The sample was sonicated in a water bath for 1 h and left in the dark overnight at room temperature. The reaction was stopped by addition of chloroform (2 ml), two crystals of sodium thiosulphate and water (2 ml). The chloroform phase was washed six times with water (2 ml), dried and lyophilized. Another cycle of methylation was performed to ensure complete methylation of the polysaccharide. The sample was suspended in 25 μl of acetone and was hydrolysed in trifluoroacetic acid 4 m (1 ml) for 4 h at 100°C. Trifluoroacetic acid was removed by four cycles of distillation with ethanol. The sample was dried. Reduction was performed by addition of BD4Na 20 mg ml−1 (500 μl) in ammoniac for 2 h at room temperature. The reaction was stopped by addition of acetic acid 5%. Boric acid was removed by six rounds of distillation with methanol. The sample was dried and lyophilized. Peracetylation was performed by addition of 500 μl acetic anhydride for 4 h at 100°C. The sample was dried and suspended in 1.5 ml of chloroform. The chloroform fraction was washed six times with 2 ml of water and was filtrated on anhydrous Na2SO4. Quantitative analysis of the sample was performed by gas chromatography [Varian 3400 apparatus equipped with a flame ionization detector and a glass stick evaporator (Varian, Les Ulis, France)] on a capillary column (EC.Tm-1, 30 m × 0.25 mm; Alltech). Column temperature was set from 120 to 240°C, with a temperature gradient of 2°C min−1. Detector temperature was set at 250°C. Soluble starch synthase activities. Proteins (100 μg) from a leaf crude extract were loaded on a native PAGE (7.5% acrylamide) containing 0.3% of rabbit liver glycogen. After migration (under native condition for 3 h at 4°C at 15 V cm−1), the gel was incubated overnight at room temperature in the following buffer: Glygly/NaOH 50 mm (pH 9), (NH4)2SO4 100 mm, β-mercaptoethanol 5 mm, MgCl2 5 mm, BSA 0.25 g l−1 and ADP-Glc 1 mm. Starch synthase activities were revealed by iodine solution. Starch-modifying activities (hydrolases, branching enzymes). Proteins (100 μg) from a leaf crude extract were loaded on native PAGE (7.5% acrylamide) containing soluble potato starch (0.3% final concentration). After migration (under native condition for 3 h at 4°C at 15 V cm−1), the gel was incubated overnight at room temperature in the following buffer: Tris/HCl 100 mm (pH 7.0), MgCl2 1 mm, CaCl2 1 mm and DTT 1 mm. Starch-modifying activities were revealed by iodine staining. Starch phosphorylases. Proteins (100 μg) from a leaf crude extract were loaded on native PAGE (7.5% acrylamide) containing 0.75% (w/v final concentration) of rabbit liver glycogen and separated for 3 h at 4°C at 15 V cm−1 under native conditions. After migration, the gel was incubated overnight at room temperature in sodium citrate 100 mm (pH 7.0) and G-1-P 20 mm (glucose-1-phosphate). Iodine staining of the gel revealed starch phosphorylase activities. Phosphoglucomutases. Proteins (100 μg) from a leaf crude extract were loaded on native PAGE (7.5% acrylamide). After migration (under native condition for 3 h at 4°C at 15 V cm−1), the gel was incubated at room temperature in the following buffer: Tris/HCl 200 mm (pH 7.0), EDTA 1 mm, MgCl2 50 mm, glucose-1-phosphate 15 mm, NAD 0.5 mm, NADP 0.25 mm, glucose-1,6-diphosphate 0.05 mm, 17 U of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol)-2,5 diphenyltetrazolium bromide 1 mm and 5-methyl-phena-zinium methyl sulphate 0.5 mm. The reaction was usually stopped after 1 h of incubation at room temperature. Pullulanase. Proteins (100 μg) from a leaf crude extract were loaded on native PAGE (7.5% acrylamide) containing azure-pullulan (0.3% final concentration). After migration (under native condition for 3 h at 4°C at 15 V cm−1), the gel was incubated overnight at room temperature in the following buffer: Tris/HCl 100 mm (pH 7.0), MgCl2 1 mm, CaCl2 1 mm and DTT 1 mm. Pullulanase activity appears as a white band on the gel. Soluble starch synthases. Proteins (50 μg) were incubated at 30°C for 30 min in 100 μl of the following buffer: Glygly/NaOH 50 mm (pH 9), (NH4)2SO4 100 mm, β-mercaptoethanol 5 mm, MgCl2 5 mm, BSA 0.25 g l−1, [U14C]ADP-glucose (333 mCi mm−1) 0.75 nm and glycogen 10 mg ml−1. For the determination of the Km for ADP-glucose, various concentrations of non-radiolabelled ADP-glucose were added to the buffer. For regular soluble starch synthase assay, 1 mm of ADP-glucose was added to the reaction mixture. The reaction was stopped by boiling for 10 min. After the addition of 1 ml of 75% methanol/1% (w/v) KCl solution, the sample was centrifuged at 10 000 g at 4°C for 10 min. The pellet was rinsed twice with 1 ml of 75% methanol/1% (w/v) KCl solution and dried at room temperature for 30 min. The pellet was resuspended in 300 μl of distilled water, and finally counted in a scintillation counter after the addition of 2 ml of counting solution (UltimaGold; Perkin-Elmer, Boston, MA, USA). Determination of the kinetics parameters of the recombinant SSI. An equivalent of 5 μg of proteins was incubated at 30°C for 30 min in 100 μl of the following buffer: Glygly/NaOH 50 mm (pH 9), (NH4)2SO4 100 mm, β-mercaptoethanol 5 mm, MgCl2 5 mm, BSA 0.25 g l−1, [U14C]ADP-glucose (333 mCi mm−1) 0.75 nm. 10 mg ml−1 of malto-oligosaccharides (DP2–DP7), maize amylopectin, maize BLD or rabbit liver glycogen were added to the buffer depending on the substrate to be tested. A final concentration of 1 mg ml−1 was used for incubation with wild type and Atss1-1 mutant amylopectin. Except for malto-oligosaccharides (DP2–DP7) the reaction was stopped by boiling for 10 min. After the addition of 1 ml of 75% methanol/1% (w/v) KCl solution, the sample was centrifuged at 10 000 g at 4°C for 10 min. The pellet was rinsed twice with 1 ml of 75% methanol/1% (w/v) KCl solution and dried at room temperature for 30 min. The pellet was resuspended in 300 μl of distilled water, and finally counted in a scintillation counter after the addition of 2 ml of counting solution. When incubated with malto-oligosaccharides, the reaction was stopped by boiling for 10 min and the glucans were elongated by incubation overnight at 30°C with 7.5 U of phosphorylase ‘a’ from rabbit muscle (Sigma) in the presence of 50 mm of Glc-1-P (final concentration). The reaction was stopped by addition of 3.5 ml of 75% methanol/1% (w/v) KCl solution and the samples were further treated as described above before counting. ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase. ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) activity was measured upon the degradation of ADP-glucose in the presence of PPi to produce ATP and Glc-1-P. Glc-1-P is transformed to Glc-6-P (glucose-6-phosphate) by phosphoglucomutase. Glc-6-P is oxidized to D-gluconate-6-phosphate by glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and NADP. The production of NADPH, H+ is finally monitored at 365 nm. Proteins (100 μg) from a leaf crude extract were added to a reaction mixture to provide a final volume of 500 μl with the following concentration: GlyGly/NaOH 80 mm (pH 7.5), PPi 1 mm, MgCl2 60 mm, glucose-1,6-diphosphate 0.05 mm, NADP 0.25 mm, NAF 10 mm, ADP-glucose 1 mm and acid 3-phosphoglyceric (3-PGA) 3 mm (added when necessary). After 30 min incubation at 30°C, the sample was boiled for 10 min to stop the reaction. The sample was cleared by centrifugation and the supernatant was collected to measure the concentration of Glc-1-P. After addition of 1 U phosphoglucomutase and 1 U glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, the absorbance was monitored at 365 nm. α and β-Amylases, pullulanase, α-1,4 glucanotransferase, starch-phosphorylase, starch branching enzymes and maltase activities were determined as described in CITATION. Soluble proteins (100 μg) were separated by electrophoresis on SDS-PAGE gel (7.5% acrylamide and 0.1% SDS). Before blotting proteins onto PVDF membrane (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech), gels were incubated for 10 min in a Western blot buffer [48 mm Tris, 39 mm glycine, 0.0375% (w/v) SDS, and 20% methanol]. The transfer was carried out using the Mini Trans-Blot Cell (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA), for 90 min at 100 mA with the same Western blot buffer. After blocking for 1 h in a 1% milk solution made in TBS-T buffer [20 mm Tris base, 137 mm NaCl, 0.05% Tween20, pH 7.6 with 1 m HCl], membranes were incubated overnight at 4°C with the antiserum diluted in TBS buffer [20 mm Tris base, 137 mm NaCl, pH 7.6 with 1 m HCl]. After incubation, membranes were rinsed several times in TBS-T buffer at room temperature before immunodetection with a biotin and streptavidin/alkalin phosphatase kit (Sigma) following the supplier's instruction. The open reading frame of SSI was amplified by PCR using primers containing the recombination sequences of the Gateway Cloning System (Invitrogen, Cergy-Pontoise, France). The PCR product was cloned by recombination in the Gateway pDONR201 vector following the manufacturer's instruction. The SSI cDNA was then inserted by a second recombination step in the Gateway pDEST15 vector, allowing the expression of the N-terminus GST-tagged fusion protein in E. coli BL21 strain. After a 4-h induction in LB medium containing 0.2%l-arabinose, the GST-tagged protein was purified using the MagneGST purification system following the supplier's instruction. To avoid material losses as well as heterogeneous distribution, wet samples were first embedded in 3% (w/v) agar solution (temperature below 40°C). After the agar solution had solidified, small cubes of samples (1 mm3) were cut out and treated for 20 min in 1% periodic acid, washed in deionized water, treated in a saturated solution of thiosemicarbazide for 24 h, washed again and finally treated with 1% (w/v) AgNO3 for 24 h (PATAg treatment) according to CITATION. Samples were then washed and embedded in Nanoplast (CITATION). After Nanoplast polymerization (10 days), the samples were again embedded in LR White Hard Grade. Sections (0.1 mm thick) were obtained using a diamond knife (Microm MT-7000, Bal-Tec RMC; Tucson, AZ, USA), and examined under 80 keV with a JEOL (Croissy sur seine, France) 100S transmission electron microscope. Crystallinity level of the starch samples was determined by X-ray diffraction as already described in CITATION.
