!~ABS~! Homologs of peroxin 16 genes (PEX16) have been identified only in Yarrowia lipolytica, humans (Homo sapiens), and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). The Arabidopsis gene (AtPEX16), previously reported as the SSE1 gene, codes for a predicted 42-kD membrane peroxin protein (AtPex16p). Lin et al. (Y. Lin, J.E. Cluette-Brown, H.M. Goodman [2004] Plant Physiol 135: 814–827) reported that SSE1/AtPEX16 was essential for endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-dependent oil and protein body biogenesis in peroxisome-deficient maturing seeds and likely also was involved in peroxisomal biogenesis based on localization of stably expressed green fluorescent protein::AtPex16p in peroxisomes of Arabidopsis plants. In this study with Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells, combined in vivo and in vitro experiments revealed a novel dual organelle localization and corresponding membrane association/topology of endogenous AtPex16p. Immunofluorescence microscopy with antigen affinity-purified IgGs showed an unambiguous, steady-state coexistence of AtPex16p in suspension cell peroxisomes and ER. AtPex16p also was observed in peroxisomes and ER of root and leaf cells. Cell fractionation experiments surprisingly revealed two immunorelated polypeptides, 42 kD (expected) and 52 kD (unexpected), in homogenates and microsome membrane pellets derived from roots, inflorescence, and suspension cells. Suc-gradient purifications confirmed the presence of both 42-kD and 52-kD polypeptides in isolated peroxisomes (isopycnic separation) and in rough ER vesicles (Mg2+ shifted). They were found peripherally associated with peroxisome and ER membranes but not as covalently bound subunits of AtPex16p. Both were mostly on the matrix side of peroxisomal membranes and unexpectedly mostly on the cytosolic side of ER membranes. In summary, AtPex16p is the only authentic plant peroxin homolog known to coexist at steady state within peroxisomes and ER; these data provide new insights in support of its ER-related, multifunctional roles in organelle biogenesis.
!~RES~! Figure 1 shows an amino acid sequence alignment of five Pex16p homologs. At present, only humans are known to possess more than one isoform. Surprisingly, the PEX16 gene has been identified in only one (Y. lipolytica) of the five yeast species, which has been examined extensively for peroxisomal biogenesis. Analyses of the alignment reveal that AtPex16p has only an 18% to 26% amino acid identity with the other homologs, although their deduced polypeptide molecular masses are quite similar, ranging from 38 to 44 kD. Two membrane helices (underlined, Fig. 1) are predicted within MmPex16p and AtPex16p (HMMTOP 2.0 program; CITATION, CITATION). Three membrane helices are predicted in HsPex16p (isoforms 1 and 2). From biochemical evidence, CITATION concluded that HsPex16p (isoform 1) was an integral membrane protein. CITATION reported that YlPex16p possessed four membrane helices with only one of them considered as a membrane-spanning domain. They concluded from biochemical results, however, that YlPex16p was a peripheral membrane protein. [[FIGURE]] The cluster of basic amino acid residues (bolded, Fig. 1) along with the N-terminal-most (first) transmembrane domain in HsPex16p (isoform 1) was identified as a necessary membrane-targeting signal (CITATION). A similar positional relationship (basic cluster and transmembrane domain) is conserved only among the three mammalian isoforms. In AtPex16p, three clusters of basic residues (bolded) are apparent, one upstream of the first predicted membrane helix, another between the two predicted membrane helices, and the third downstream of the second predicted membrane helix. A cluster of basic residues does not exist in YlPex16p. YlPex16p was reported to be an N-linked glycoprotein with a single oligosaccharide chain (CITATION). Accordingly, an N-glycosylation site exits in YlPex16p (boxed residues, Fig. 1). A putative glycosylation site also occurs in AtPex16p but not in any of the other homologs. Figure 2 (top) presents representative immunoblot results used to assess the specificity and fidelity of anti-AtPex16p antiserum (lane 1) and of affinity-purified IgGs prepared from this antiserum (lanes 2 and 3). Clarified homogenates of Arabidopsis suspension cells were used as the source of antigens on the blots. Lane 1 shows that the AtPex16p antiserum reacts most strongly with a 42-kD polypeptide band, consistent with the predicted molecular mass of AtPex16p. Several other bands of lower and higher molecular mass also are apparent in this lane. Preimmune serum applied to similar blots in place of antiserum did not produce any chemiluminescence signals. [[FIGURE]] In lane 2 (top), Protein A (PA)-purified IgGs (rabbit PA anti-AtPex16p IgGs) recognize two distinguishable bands on the blots, namely a 42-kD and a 52-kD polypeptide band. Some diffuse signals in a lower molecular range also are observed. IgGs in this PA anti-AtPex16p IgG antibody preparation were further purified. Bands with the 42-kD polypeptides were excised from Immobilon blots, incubated with PA anti-AtPex16p IgGs, and bound IgGs were eluted from the 42-kD polypeptides. These antibodies are referred to as anti-AtPex16p-42 IgGs throughout this article. Lane 3 (top) exhibits surprising and interesting results with the anti-AtPex16p-42 IgGs. They recognize not only 42-kD polypeptides as expected, but also 52-kD polypeptides (slightly weaker) in a well-separated band. No other bands are observed, indicative of a collection of highly purified and specific IgGs in the antibody probe. Evidence that these IgGs were affinity purified against only 42-kD polypeptides was that the same results were obtained with replicate preparations of these IgGs using different Immobilon blots with well-separated 42- and 52-kD bands. Hence, the polypeptides in the 52-kD band are immunorelated to the 42-kD AtPex16p polypeptides. The question arose as to whether immunorelated 42- and 52-kD polypeptides also existed in Bright Yellow (BY)-2 cells and/or in one or more parts of Arabidopsis plants. Anti-AtPex16p-42 IgGs recognized multiple bands on blots of BY-2 cell homogenates (data not shown); hence, it was not possible to determine whether immunorelated NtPex16p polypeptides existed in BY-2 cells, nor could we reliably use these antibodies for immunological studies with BY-2 cells. The bottom section of Figure 2 presents immunoblot results with cell fractions from Arabidopsis plant parts. Both 42- and 52-kD polypeptide bands were detected in microsomal membrane fractions recovered from flowers and roots (lanes 2 and 4). Only 42-kD polypeptides were found in the supernatant fractions of these plant parts (lanes 1 and 3). However, 42- or 52-kD polypeptide bands were not detected on blots of clarified homogenates made from roots, flowers, leaves, or siliques, or in 200,000g (1 h) supernatants or microsomal pellets derived from leaves or siliques (data not shown). These negative results likely were due to the common technical difficulty of not being able to apply sufficient amounts of 42- and 52-kD polypeptides (in protein-rich samples) per well of SDS gels. Nevertheless, the presence of the 42- and 52-kD polypeptides in at least some plant parts clearly indicates that these immunorelated polypeptides are not uniquely expressed in Arabidopsis suspension cells. Discovering two AtPex16p immunorelated polypeptides, one of which (42 kD) is a predicted membrane protein (Fig. 1), prompted a comparison of the membrane associations of these two polypeptides. Both polypeptides are present in clarified homogenates (Fig. 3, lane 1); the 42-kD polypeptide band is more prominent than the 52-kD band (see also Fig. 2, top, lane 3). Similar to our surprising results with flowers and roots (Fig. 2, bottom), 42-kD polypeptides (but not 52-kD polypeptides) were solubilized in the homogenizing medium (Fig. 3, lane 2). Both were in microsome pellets as expected (Fig. 3, lane 3). This result also was similar to those obtained with roots and flowers (Fig. 2, bottom). Calnexin, an ER marker, was prevalent in the microsome pellet but not found in the supernatant (data not shown), indicating that the presence of 42-kD polypeptides in the supernatant was not due to an inefficient sedimentation of microsomes. The 42-kD band consistently was found in homogenizing medium supernatants and microsomal membrane pellets whether suspension cells (frozen in liquid nitrogen) were disrupted with a mortar and pestle or disrupted at varying pressures in a French pressure cell (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Incubation of microsomal membrane pellets in 0.2 m KCl resulted in release of a portion of membrane-bound 42-kD polypeptides into the KCl-soluble supernatant without any accompanying 52-kD polypeptides (Fig. 3, lane 4). All 52-kD polypeptides along with another portion of 42-kD polypeptides remained in the KCl-insoluble membrane pellet (lane 5). Incubations of other, separate microsome pellets (each with the same protein content) in twice the volume of 0.2 m, 0.4 m, or 1.0 m KCl yielded the same results as shown in lanes 4 and 5 (data not shown). Incubation of another separate microsomal membrane pellet in alkaline sodium carbonate solubilized all of the 42- and 52-kD polypeptides (compare lanes 6 and 7) that were in the water-insoluble membranes (lane 3). Incubation of another microsomal membrane pellet in 0.05% (w/v) deoxycholate (DOC) solubilized both polypeptides (lane 8), with a portion of both remaining in the detergent-insoluble membranes (lane 9). Increasing the concentrations of DOC from 0.05% to 0.5% (w/v) resulted in a complete release of all 42- and 52-kD polypeptides (data not shown). In summary, both 42- and 52-kD polypeptides are associated with membranes, albeit variously, suggesting that they are not covalently bound subunits of a potentially heteromeric AtPex16p. The varied solubility (in water, KCl, alkaline carbonate, and DOC) of the AtPex16p-42 polypeptides is surprising and unusual for membrane-associated polypeptides. Interpretations as to whether these polypeptides are peripherally or integrally associated with membranes are discussed. Figure 4 displays representative confocal optical sections of Arabidopsis suspension cells transiently expressing mycAtPex16p. Figure 4A shows one representative transformed cell. Overexpressed mycAtPex16p was visualized (with anti-myc antibodies) in two compartments, a reticular and a punctate compartment. However, Figure 4B shows that no anti-AtPex16p-42 immunofluorescence was detected in the same dual-incubated transformed cell using our standard tube procedure. Low IgG concentrations are characteristic of the affinity-purified anti-Pex16p-42 IgG preparations. Therefore, a portion of the same batch of transiently transformed cells was dual labeled with PA anti-AtPex16p IgGs (higher IgG concentration) plus anti-myc antibodies. Figure 4C reveals two myc-labeled compartments (reticular and punctate) similar to those shown in Figure 4A. However, in the same transformed cell (Fig. 4D), there is a virtual perfect colocalization of the reticular and punctate immunofluorescence patterns. These results demonstrate that these two antibodies are labeling the same overexpressed mycAtPex16p antigen. Control experiments included applications of preimmune antiserum in place of the primary IgGs, omitting primary IgGs or secondary IgGs, or adding irrelevant IgGs. In no cases was background fluorescence observed (data not shown). In summary, the colocalization of anti-myc antibodies and PA anti-AtPex16p IgGs (Fig. 4, C and D) is compelling direct evidence for the monotypic fidelity of the PA affinity-purified IgGs for AtPex16p. [[FIGURE]] As indicated above, endogenous AtPex16p was not detected in the nontransformed cells with either of the affinity-purified antibodies when employing our tube procedure for labeling cells for immunofluorescence microscopy. These observations plus the need to apply at least 150 μg protein per gel well to detect AtPex16p on immunoblots (Figs. 2 and 3) indicate that AtPex16p occurs in relatively low abundance. A modified, on-slide procedure was employed for other low abundance membrane proteins (CITATION; CITATION). Figure 5, A and B, are representative images of a cluster of eight to nine cells dual immunolabeled with anti-AtPex16p-42 IgGs (green) and anti-catalase IgGs (red; peroxisomes). AtPex16p was observed in both the reticular (arrowheads) and punctate peroxisomal compartments (arrows) in all cells (Fig. 5A). The merged image (Fig. 5C) convincingly shows that a portion of the endogenous AtPex16p is located in the catalase-containing peroxisomes (yellow). Virtually all cells exhibited peroxisomal labeling after a 1-h incubation in catalase antibodies, whereas only approximately 15% to 25% of the cells were immunolabeled after an overnight incubation in relatively high concentration (1:10) of anti-AtPex16p-42 IgGs. These undesirable parameters prompted us to apply PA anti-AtPex16p IgGs (specific and higher concentration, Fig. 4, C and D) to a different portion of the same batch of cells. Figure 5D shows a representative image of clustered cells immunolabeled with PA anti-AtPex16p IgGs at a comparatively low concentration (1:1,000) for only 2 h. Under these conditions, the PA anti-AtPex16p IgGs recognized similar punctate (arrows) and reticular (arrowheads) patterns as did the anti-AtPex16p-42 IgGs (Fig. 5A), and the patterns were observed in virtually all of the cells on the microscope slides. Therefore, PA anti-AtPex16p IgGs were used routinely for immunofluorescence localizations of endogenous AtPex16p (e.g. Fig. 5, D, G, and J). Figure 5E shows the punctate pattern characteristic of catalase-containing peroxisomes (arrows), and the merged image (Fig. 5F) shows colocalization of a portion of the endogenous AtPex16p with catalase in the peroxisomes (yellow). [[FIGURE]] Due to the resemblance of the reticular compartment to ER, cells were dual labeled with ER markers. Figure 5G shows AtPex16p in reticular compartment and punctate peroxisomes as before. Figure 5H shows the same cells labeled with mouse anti-binding protein (BiP) monoclonal antibodies. In the merged image (Fig. 5I), the two antigens are colocalized in the reticular compartment (yellow-orange). However, not the entire BiP-localized ER compartment possesses AtPex16p as evidenced by the red BiP fluorescence (Fig. 5I). Another portion of these cells also was dual labeled for endogenous AtPex16p and ConcanavalinA (another ER marker) conjugated to Alexa 594. Figure 5J shows the punctate and reticular fluorescence pattern displayed by PA anti-AtPex16p IgGs. Figure 5K shows a reticular pattern labeled with ConcanavalinA-Alexa594. In the merged image (Fig. 5L), AtPex16p is colocalized with ConcanavalinA to the same extent as it is with ER BiP (compare Fig. 5, I and L). To test whether ConcanavalinA labeled the same ER (sub)domains as anti-ER BiP antibodies, cells were dual labeled with anti-BiP and ConcanavalinA-Alexa-594. Immunofluorescence displayed in Figure 5M is attributable to anti-ER BiP antibodies, whereas the fluorescence signal in Figure 5N is attributable to ConcanavalinA-Alexa 594. In the merged image (Fig. 5O), a near perfect colocalization (yellow) is observed for both ER markers in the same reticular compartment. Control experiments verified that background fluorescence was not being observed when primary or secondary antibodies were omitted, or when irrelevant primary antibodies (e.g. rabbit anti-pea reversibly glycosylated protein antiserum, mouse anti-maize ATPase monoclonal antibodies) were added with secondary antibodies (data not shown). In summary, endogenous AtPex16p resides within most of the cellular ER compartment and all peroxisomes of each cell (Fig. 5, C and F) indicating a steady-state coexistence within these two organelles. It was of interest to learn whether there was a similar coexistence in Arabidopsis plants. We examined root cells of nontransformed plants because AtPex16p-42 and 52-kD polypeptides were identified in subfractions of roots (Fig. 2, bottom). Figure 6, A and B, reveal that endogenous AtPex16p colocalizes with peroxisomal catalase within root cells. Endogenous AtPex16p and peroxisomal catalase also were colocalized in green leaf peroxisomes (data not shown). However, AtPex16p was not observed also in a reticular cytoplasmic compartment reminiscent of ER in root or leaf cells. Attempts to visualize ER in these cells with Concanavalin A-Alexa594 or anti-castor calnexin antiserum also were unsuccessful, indicating that these hand-sectioned, fixed tissues were not amenable to ER fluorescence microscopy imaging. The peroxisomal localizations provide direct evidence for the in vivo localization of endogenous AtPex16p in peroxisomes of Arabidopsis plant cells. [[FIGURE]] Cell fractionation experiments were carried out with suspension cells to compare in vitro localizations with our immunofluorescence localizations (Fig. 5). Clarified homogenates containing organelles (except nuclei and plastids) were applied to Suc density gradients. Figure 3 in CITATION shows a representative gradient profile illustrating the positions with marker proteins of peroxisomes, mitochondria, and ER. Figure 7 in this article presents a representative immunoblot of pooled fractions collected from a similar Suc gradient. Lane 1 reveals that the clarified homogenate (applied sample) possesses AtPex16p-42 and 52-kD polypeptides, peroxisomal membrane APX, and the ER marker calnexin. Lane 2 shows that AtPex16p-42 and 52-kD polypeptides are recovered in pooled isolated peroxisomes with APX but not with calnexin (ER). Lane 3 shows that these two polypeptides also are in pooled fractions collected at the top of the gradient that likely possess membrane vesicles of varied origin including ER (calnexin is present). Lane 4 shows as anticipated that AtPex16p-42, 52-kD polypeptides, APX, nor calnexin exist in the pooled soluble fractions collected above the gradient. [[FIGURE]] Mg2+-induced shift experiments were conducted to more specifically resolve and/or confirm the membrane site of AtPex16p found in microsomal pellets (Fig. 3, lane 3), membrane vesicle fractions (Fig. 7, lane 3), and reticular immunofluorescence images (Figs. 4 and 5). Microsomal pellets with or without Mg2+ were applied to Suc density gradients (with or without Mg2+); following centrifugation, the distribution of AtPex16 and calnexin polypeptides was compared in the two gradients (Fig. 8). Mg2+ maintains polysome binding to membrane vesicles derived from rough ER, whereas the absence of Mg2+ dislodges polysomes from rougher vesicles making them less dense than polysome-bound vesicles. In the (−) Mg2+ gradient (Fig. 8), both AtPex16-42 and 52-kD polypeptides, coincident with calnexin, were found in fractions ranging from about 15% to 41% (w/w) Suc. However, in the (+) Mg2+ gradient, both the AtPex16p-42 and 52-kD polypeptides, coincident with calnexin, were found in heavier density fractions and in the pellet (P) in response to a Mg2+- induced shift. The 42-kD polypeptide bands were difficult to see in the same fractions as the 52-kD polypeptides due to their relatively lower abundance. However, longer chemiluminescence film exposures, which blurred 52-kD bands, clearly revealed 42-kD bands in these fractions (data not shown). These results indicate that both AtPex16p polypeptides are present in rough ER-derived microsomal vesicles. [[FIGURE]] The Mg2+-gradient pellet, which possessed abundant AtPex16p-42 and 52-kD polypeptide was fixed and resin embedded for thin-section electron microscopy examinations (CITATION). Figure 9 shows a representative electron micrograph of the pellet collected at the bottom of the gradient tube confirming that Mg2+ gradient pellets were composed entirely of polysome-studded membranes characteristic of rough ER vesicles. [[FIGURE]] In summary, these in vitro data demonstrate that endogenous AtPex16p-42 and 52-kD polypeptides are localized to peroxisomes and rough ER vesicles, thus confirming interpretations of images obtained from in vivo immunofluorescence experiments (Figs. 4 and 5). The membrane associations of AtPex16p-42 and 52-kD polypeptides with purified peroxisomal and rough ER vesicle membranes were determined using the same solution solubility approach that was conducted with crude microsome pellets (Fig. 3). A necessary but inconsequential difference was that the peroxisomal and ER vesicle fractions were incubated sequentially in the solutions rather than individually as with the microsomal fractions. Immunoblot results shown in Figure 10 illustrate the results of these experiments. Lane 1 shows that AtPex16p-42 polypeptides in peroxisomes and ER vesicles were almost completely extracted (solubilized) in 0.2 m KCl, whereas the 52-kD polypeptides were only partly extracted. Sequential treatment of the KCl-insoluble pellet with alkaline Na2CO3 led to the extraction of more, but not all, of the 52-kD polypeptide from the membranes in both peroxisomes and rough ER vesicles (lane 2). Incubation of the KCl/Na2CO3-insoluble pellet in DOC resulted in removal of essentially all of the remaining 52-kD polypeptides from both peroxisomes and rough ER (lane 3). The DOC-insoluble pellet did not possess 42- or 52-kD polypeptides (lane 4). Positive controls gave expected results. Neither peroxisomal APX nor ER calnexin were solubilized in KCl; instead, they were solubilized partially in alkaline sodium carbonate and then in DOC. Some APX and calnexin remained in the final membrane pellet. Catalase was included as a peroxisomal matrix protein control. Portions remaining after bursting peroxisomes in buffer were solubilized partially in KCl, and the remainder was extracted in alkaline carbonate (data not shown). These results were similar to those shown in CITATION. [[FIGURE]] Figure 11 presents immunoblot results of Proteinase K digestions with and without Triton X-100 to determine the topological orientation of AtPex16p-42 and 52-kD polypeptides in isolated, intact peroxisomes and rough ER vesicles. The procedure employed was similar to that described in detail by CITATION. Data for a representative concentration of applied Proteinase K are shown. Both polypeptide bands were present in the untreated samples (lanes 1 and 4, top sections), with a relatively greater proportion of 42- to 52-kD polypeptides in peroxisomes, and the reverse proportionality in ER vesicles. These proportions consistently were observed in replicate experiments. AtPex16p-42 and 52-kD polypeptides in peroxisomes were not digested in Proteinase K in the absence of detergent (lane 2, top). However, the multiple, lower molecular mass bands repeatedly observed only in this lane (lane 2) may reflect a partial degradation of the 52-kD polypeptides. On the other hand, lane 5 (top) illustrates that both 42- and 52-kD polypeptides in ER vesicles were digested in the absence of Triton X-100, indicating that these polypeptides were on the outer surface of the ER vesicles. Other polypeptides protected from Proteinase K digestions were not observed in the lower part of these gels. Both polypeptides in peroxisomes and ER vesicles were digested in the presence of the detergent (lanes 3 and 6, top). [[FIGURE]] Positive controls for the peroxisomal digestion experiments were cytosolic-facing, membrane-bound peroxisomal APX and matrix catalase. Peroxisomal APX was digested with Proteinase K without Triton X-100 (lane 1, 2, and 3, middle) in accordance with CITATION. Catalase was protease protected until the boundary membranes were solubilized in detergent as expected for a matrix protein (lanes 1, 2, and 3, bottom). Positive controls for the ER vesicle digestions were mostly lumenal-facing integral membrane-bound calnexin (CITATION) and lumenal BiP. As expected, calnexin was digested partially without added detergents (top band, lane 5; middle section) and then a lower molecular mass band was digested upon addition of detergent as shown previously (CITATION). The anti-calnexin antibody also recognizes lumenal calreticulin; thus the results observed in lane 5 likely are digestions of both calreticulin and lumenal-facing calnexin. ER BiP was protease protected until the addition of Triton X-100 (lanes 4, 5, and 6, bottom). In summary, the collective results presented in Figures 10 and 11 indicate that both AtPex16p-42 and 52-kD polypeptides are associated similarly with peroxisomal and ER membranes, although they have different topological orientations in peroxisomes (mostly inside) and ER vesicles (mostly outside). Interpretations of whether they are integral or peripheral membrane polypeptides in these two organelles are discussed.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia) seeds were surface sterilized in 2% NaOCl and grown on a 4:1:1 mixture of seed starter soil, perlite, and vermiculite, respectively. The seeds were vernalized for 3 d at 4°C and then grown under long-day conditions of 16-h-light (100 μE m−2 s−1)/8-h-dark cycle at 22°C for 4 weeks. Suspension cell cultures of Nicotiana tabacum L. cv BY-2 and Arabidopsis var. Landsberg erecta were grown and maintained as described previously by CITATION and CITATION, respectively. Antiserum produced in rabbits, which were immunized with purified Arabidopsis Pex16/sse1 protein (AtPex16p) that was overexpressed in Escherichia coli, was a kind gift from Yun Lin and H.M. Goodman (Harvard Medical School, Boston). Briefly, overexpressed AtPex16p with a hexahistidine tag at the C terminus was purified from E. coli extracts on a Ni metal affinity column. Bands with AtPex16 42-kD polypeptides (predicted molecular mass) were excised from SDS gels and injected with adjuvant into two rabbits. Hyperimmune antiserum was collected from both animals; antiserum from one of the rabbits was used for affinity purifications of IgGs for this study. PA anti-AtPex16p IgGs were prepared via Protein A-Sepharose column chromatography from the anti-AtPex16p antiserum. CITATION describes details of the procedure. Anti-AtPex16-42 IgGs were prepared from PA anti-AtPex16p IgGs to produce antigen affinity-purified (42-kD polypeptides) IgGs as follows: Clarified homogenates of Arabidopsis suspension cells were prepared from 7-d-old suspension cell cultures. Pelleted cells resuspended in 1.5 volumes of homogenizing medium (25 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5, 3 mm dithiothreitol, and 0.5 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride) were ruptured in one passage through a French pressure cell (1-inch diameter piston) at 5,000 psi, and then centrifuged in a Sorvall SS-34 fixed angle rotor (Sorvall Products, Newtown, CT) at 1,500g for 15 min. To the supernatant, sodium DOC (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis) was added to 0.05% (w/v) final concentration, and proteins were precipitated by incubation for 30 min (4°C) in 10% w/v TCA (final concentration) and centrifugation at 10,000g for 15 min (4°C) in a Sorvall SS-34 rotor. Proteins were resuspended in appropriate amounts of SDS sample buffer (125 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 20% [v/v] glycerol, 4% [w/v] SDS, and 0.00125% [w/v] bromphenol blue), and suspensions were neutralized with solid Tris. Just before loading SDS gels, freshly prepared 500 mm dithiothreitol was added to 10 mm (final concentration), the reduced samples were boiled for 8 min and then added to wells of 12% precast Mini-Protean II polyacrylamide gels (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). Protein (150 μg), estimated using the Coomassie Blue dye-binding method (standard assay) with bovine plasma gamma globulin (Bio-Rad) as the standard, was added to each well. The SDS gels were run at 120 v for about 35 to 40 min until the bromphenol dye front reached the bottom of the gel. Separated proteins were then electroblotted with a semi-dry transfer apparatus (Bio-Rad) onto polyvinylidene difluoride membranes (Immobilon P; Millipore, Bedford, MA) as described by CITATION. Time of electroblotting per four gels was 90 min. To visualize proteins, the entire membrane was incubated in Ponceau S (Roche, Mannheim, Germany) for 10 min. Membranes were destained in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) until the 42-kD bands were visible and their position marked with ink. Ponceau S stain was completely removed with six PBS washes and then two Immobilon membrane strips about 3 mm wide, each including 42-kD polypeptides from six wells, were cut out of the membrane blot. The strips were incubated (blocked) overnight in PBS containing 5% (w/v) bovine serum albumin (BSA; Sigma-Aldrich), washed three times in PBS, and then incubated in PA anti-AtPex16p IgGs (1:20) in PBS containing 1% (w/v) BSA for 4 h at room temperature. Following three washes in PBS using gentle inversion rocking, IgGs bound to the 42-kD polypeptides on the strips were eluted in Gly elution buffer (0.2 m Gly [Sigma], 1 mm EGTA [Sigma], pH 2.7) for 10 min. The eluant was neutralized with an equal volume (approximately 0.2 mL) of neutralizing buffer (100 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, containing 0.1% [w/v] BSA and 0.02% (w/v) Na azide). CITATION describe in detail most of the methods and procedures employed with suspension cells in this section. Pertinent modifications/variations in methodology and new procedures with suspension cells and plant parts are given in the above section and below. Preparations of clarified homogenates (1,500g, 15 min supernatants of pressure cell-disrupted cells) from 7-d-old Arabidopsis cell cultures are similar to the ones described in the section directly above. The psi applied to disrupt Arabidopsis cells in one passage through the pressure cells varied depending on the experiments, i.e. 5,000 psi (preparations of microsomal membrane pellets, Figs. 2 and 3), 1,000 psi (isolations of peroxisomes in Suc density gradients, Figs. 7, 10, and 11), or 2,000 psi (Mg2+-induced shift experiments Figs. 8, 9, 10, and 11). Microsomal membrane pellets were derived from 1,500g (20 min) supernatants by centrifugation in a Beckman 70.1 Ti rotor at 200,000g for 1 h (4°C). Cell fraction of plant parts was as follows. Roots, leaves, flowers, and siliques were harvested from 4-week-old Arabidopsis plants. These plant parts were frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground to a powder in a mortar. A volume of each powdered plant parts (roots, 5 mL; leaves; 10 mL, flowers; 8 mL, siliques; 5 mL) was mixed with an equal volume of homogenizing medium (see above section) and was ground further in a mortar to produce homogenates. Each homogenate was then centrifuged at 2,000g (30 min, 4°C) in a Sorvall SS-34 rotor, and the resulting supernatant was centrifuged at 20,000g (45 min, 4°C) in a Beckman 70.1 Ti rotor. This 20,000g supernatant was centrifuged in the same rotor at 200,000g for 1 h at 4°C to yield microsomal pellets. Each microsomal pellet was resuspended in 500 μL of homogenizing medium. For immunoblot analyses of polypeptides separated by SDS-PAGE and electroblotted to Immobilon membranes, samples from all experiments, unless noted otherwise in figure legends, were made to 0.05% (w/v) sodium DOC, proteins were precipitated with 10% (w/v) TCA, separated in 12% SDS gels, and electroblotted as described in more detail in the above section. In all experiments aimed at detecting AtPex16p on blots, 150 μg protein was applied to each SDS gel well, while 25 μg protein was applied per well for detection of APX, calnexin, catalase, and BiP on blots. For chemiluminescence detections of the various antibody probes, Immobilon membranes were blocked in 5% (w/v) nonfat dry milk in Tris-buffered saline plus Tween 20 (TBST) overnight at 4°C. Primary and secondary antibodies were applied separately in 1% (w/v) nonfat dry milk with three exchanges of TBST after each antibody application. Components in an Immunstar chemiluminescence kit (Bio-Rad) were used to visualize immuno-reactive proteins (recorded on Kodak X-OMAT autoradiography film [Eastman-Kodak, Rochester, NY]). Rabbit primary and goat anti-rabbit secondary antibodies (and concentrations) were as follows: rabbit anti-AtPex16p antiserum (1:1,000), rabbit PA anti-AtPex16p IgGs (1:1,000), rabbit anti-AtPex16p-42 IgGs (1:100), rabbit anti-castor calnexin antiserum (1:5,000; provided by Sean Coughlan; CITATION), rabbit PA anti-cottonseed catalase IgGs (1:1,000; CITATION), rabbit PA anti-cucumber peroxisomal APX IgGs (1:1,000; CITATION), rabbit anti-maize BiP monoclonal antibodies (1:1,000; provided by Eliot Herman), goat anti-rabbit alkaline phosphatase conjugate (1:10,000; Bio-Rad). All antibodies were applied in 1% (w/v) nonfat dry milk in TBST separately for 1 h at room temperature, except anti- AtPex16p-42 IgGs, which were applied overnight at room temperature. Microsomal membrane pellets (200,000g, 1 h) were incubated individually, and in some cases sequentially, in different solutions to assess the association of AtPex16p and/or other polypeptides with these membranes. Pellets possessing approximately 4 mg protein were incubated in 0.2 m KCl, 0.1 m sodium carbonate (pH 11.5), and/or 0.05% (w/v) sodium DOC. To assess whether the concentration of KCl, or ratio of protein to KCl, variously affected the solubilization of AtPex16p, pellets (4 mg protein) were incubated in 2 mL of 0.2 m KCl, or 4 mL of 0.2 m, 0.4 m, or 1 m KCl in 25 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5. All samples (in varying concentrations of KCl, 0.1 m Na2CO3 (pH 11.5), or 0.05 or 0.5% (w/v) DOC in water were incubated for 1 h at 4°C with brief vortexing every 10 min. Following incubations in each of these solutions, the samples were centrifuged at 200,000g (30 min) in a Beckman 70.1 Ti rotor, the supernatants and pellets (resuspended in 25 mm HEPES, pH 7.5) were processed for SDS-PAGE, and polypeptides were analyzed on immunoblots. Isolated peroxisomes (equilibrium Suc density gradients) and rough ER vesicles (Mg2+-induced shift Suc gradients) were incubated sequentially in the lower concentrations of these solutions (Fig. 10) as described above in this section. Protein concentrations were not measured in each case but are known to be significantly lower than in microsomal pellets; therefore, solubilizations in the lower concentrations were not influenced by the ratio of protein-to-solution concentration. Procedures and methods for isolation of peroxisomes and membranes vesicles in Suc density gradients (Figs. 10 and 11), separations of ER vesicles in Suc gradients ± Mg2+ (Fig. 8), and Proteinase K digestions and Triton X-100 membrane solubilizations to assess membrane protein topologies (Fig. 11) were followed as described by CITATION. However, in each case, the methods for SDS-PAGE, protein determination, and detergent solubilization of proteins were done as described in the above section. Arabidopsis cells were harvested 4 d post subculture, were fixed in 4% (w/v) formaldehyde (prepared from paraformaldehyde, Ted Pella, Redding, CA) for 1 h, and further processed for immunolabeling. Alternatively, harvested cells were transiently transformed via biolistic bombardment with pRTL2/mycAtPEX16, and then fixed in 4% (w/v) formaldehyde 2.5 h post bombardment. Details of biolistic bombardment and processing of wild-type and transiently transformed suspension cells for immunofluorescence labeling are described in CITATION, CITATION) and CITATION. An important modification included in CITATION that improved cell morphology was to incubate formaldehyde-fixed, nontransformed, and transiently transformed Arabidopsis cells in 0.1% (w/v) Pectolyase Y-23 (Seishin Pharmaceutical, Tokyo) and 0.05% (rather than 1.0%; w/v) Cellulase RS (Karlan Research Products, Santa Rosa, CA). The cells were then processed for immunofluorescence labeling using our standard tube procedure or a modified on-slide procedure. The latter procedure differed from our tube procedure in that a portion of the formaldehyde-fixed, pectolyase/cellulase digested cells (processed together in a tube) were removed and adhered to a poly-l-lysine-coated microscope slide, permeabilized in 0.5% Triton X-100, and then immunolabeled in primary and secondary antibodies. This on-slide procedure is now being used routinely in our laboratory for immunofluorescence detection of what apparently are low abundance (membrane) proteins, which are not labeled using the tube procedure (Figs. 4 and 5). Roots and green leaves harvested from 4-week-old Arabidopsis plants were hand sectioned with a single-edge razor blade, placed in wells of a spot plate, and then fixed in 4% (w/v) formaldehyde for 30 min (room temperature). After three washings in PBS, cell walls were digested in 0.1% (w/v) Pectinase (cat. no. P2401, Sigma-Aldrich) and 1% (w/v) Cellulase Y-C (Seishin Pharmaceutical, Tokyo Japan, distributed by Karlan Research Products, Santa Rosa, CA) for 30 min at 30°C followed by three washes in PBS. Membranes were permeabilized in 0.5% Triton X-100 (Sigma-Aldrich) in PBS and then washed in three changes of PBS. Sections were incubated in TBST with 5% (w/v) protease-free BSA (no. A-3059, Sigma-Aldrich) for 30 min. Primary (overnight incubations) and secondary (1 h incubations) antibodies diluted in TBST-5% BSA were applied to the sections. The sections were removed from the wells and then mounted on slides and coverslipped in 90% (v/v) glycerol with n-propyl gallate to prevent photo bleaching. Antibody and ConcanavalinA-Alexa594 concentrations and room temperature incubation times used for microscopy of the plant parts were as follows: Sources not given in the immunoblot section above are given below: rabbit PA anti-AtPex16p IgGs (1:100, overnight), mouse monoclonal anti-salicylic acid BiP (catalase) antibody (1:2, overnight; CITATION), rabbit anti-castor calnexin antiserum (1:200, overnight), ConcanavalinA-Alexa594 (1:10, overnight; Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR). Antibody and ConcanavalinA-Alexa594 concentrations and incubation times at room temperature used for suspension cells were as follows: rabbit anti-AtPex16p-42 IgGs (1:10, overnight); rabbit PA anti-AtPex16p IgGs (1:1,000, 2 h); mouse anti-c myc monoclonal antibodies (1:500, 1 h; purified 9E10, Covance Research Products, Berkley, CA), mouse monoclonal anti-salicylic acid BiP (catalase) antibody (1:5, 1 h), mouse anti-Hsc 70 monoclonal antibodies (BiP, 1:2,000, 1 h; StressGen, San Diego), Concanavalin A-Alexa594 (1:500, 1 h), goat anti-rabbit Cy2 (1:500, 1 h), goat anti-mouse Cy2 (1:500, 1 h), goat anti-rabbit Cy5 (1:500, 1 h), and goat anti-mouse Cy5 (1:500, 1 h). All of the cyanine-conjugated secondary antibodies were purchased from Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories (Westgrove, PA). Wild-type suspension cells, plant parts, and transiently transformed suspension cells were imaged using a Leica DM RBE microscope equipped with Leica TCS NT scanning head (Leica, Heidelberg). The images were assembled and adjusted for brightness and contrast using Adobe Photoshop 7.0 (Adobe Systems, Mountain View, CA). Total RNA was isolated from 4-d-old Arabidopsis suspension cells using RNeasy mini Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) following the manufacturer's instructions with the following exception: Rather than starting with 100 mg of plant material, about 100 to 200 mg of Arabidopsis cells constituted the starting material. AtPEX16 cDNA was synthesized first from total RNA using RNeasyPlant Mini Kit (Qiagen) and then amplified with the Access reverse transcription-PCR system (Promega, Madison, WI) using the forward primers that replaced the start Met with an in-frame NheI site (5′-CATGCTAGCGAAGCTTATAAGCAATGGG-3′) and a reverse primer that introduced an in-frame XbaI site at the 3′ end of the stop codon (5′-CTGCTCTAGAACCTCACGATCCCGATATGTAAGTG-3′). These synthetic oligonucleotides were synthesized and purchased from Genetech Biosciences (Tempe, AZ). The resulting PCR product was cloned into the pCR2.1 TA shuttle vector (Invitrogen, San Diego) to yield pCR2.1/ NheI-AtPEX16-XbaI, which was sequenced (Arizona State University DNA laboratory) before insertion into the plant expression vector pRTL2/mycX prepared and donated by Dr. Robert Mullen (University of Guelph, Ontario, Canada). This plasmid has an in-frame XbaI site that follows DNA coding for a single copy of a myc epitope. pCR2.1/ NheI-AtPEX16-XbaI was then digested with Nhe1 and Xba1 and ligated into Xba1-digested pRTL2/mycX vector to yield pRTL2/mycAtPEX16 with 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter. Upon request, all novel materials described in this publication will be made available in a timely manner for noncommercial research purposes. No restrictions or conditions will be placed on the use of any materials described in this article that would limit their use in noncommercial research purposes.
