!~ABS~! Cation levels within the cytosol are coordinated by a network of transporters. Here, we examine the functional roles of calcium exchanger 1 (CAX1), a vacuolar H+/Ca2+ transporter, and the closely related transporter CAX3. We demonstrate that like CAX1, CAX3 is also localized to the tonoplast. We show that CAX1 is predominately expressed in leaves, while CAX3 is highly expressed in roots. Previously, using a yeast assay, we demonstrated that an N-terminal truncation of CAX1 functions as an H+/Ca2+ transporter. Here, we use the same yeast assay to show that full-length CAX1 and full-length CAX3 can partially, but not fully, suppress the Ca2+ hypersensitive yeast phenotype and coexpression of full-length CAX1 and CAX3 conferred phenotypes not produced when either transporter was expressed individually. In planta, CAX3 null alleles were modestly sensitive to exogenous Ca2+ and also displayed a 22% reduction in vacuolar H+-ATPase activity. cax1/cax3 double mutants displayed a severe reduction in growth, including leaf tip and flower necrosis and pronounced sensitivity to exogenous Ca2+ and other ions. These growth defects were partially suppressed by addition of exogenous Mg2+. The double mutant displayed a 42% decrease in vacuolar H+/Ca2+ transport, and a 47% decrease in H+-ATPase activity. While the ionome of cax1 and cax3 lines were modestly perturbed, the cax1/cax3 lines displayed increased PO43−, Mn2+, and Zn2+ and decreased Ca2+ and Mg2+ in shoot tissue. These findings suggest synergistic function of CAX1 and CAX3 in plant growth and nutrient acquisition.
!~RES~! CAX1 appears to localize and function in both yeast and plant vacuolar membranes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). When heterologously expressed in yeast cells, both hemagglutinin (HA)-tagged CAX1 and CAX3 colocalize to the yeast vacuolar membrane (CITATION). In addition, chimeric CAX3, which harbors the 9-amino acid Ca2+ transport determinant domain of CAX1, is able to mediate vacuolar Ca2+ antiport activity (CITATION). To further investigate the subcellular localization of CAX3 in plants, microsomal membranes from transgenic lines harboring the HA-tagged CAX3 fusion protein (HA-CAX3) were fractionated. Centrifugation through a linear Suc gradient was first used to compare the distribution of the epitope-tagged transporter in transgenic tobacco (Fig. 1) to that of markers for the tonoplast, plasma membrane (PM), and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) lumen. As shown in Figure 1A, when membrane fractions were screened for the presence of HA-CAX3 accumulation, proteins of approximately 52 kD peaked in fractions of 28% to 34% Suc. The HA-CAX3 protein accumulated in fractions enriched in tonoplast, as indicated by the sedimentation profiles, which overlap with a resident protein (V-ATPase) from this membrane but did not overlap with marker proteins from the ER (immunoglobulin heavy chain binding protein [BiP]) or the PM (PMA1; Fig. 1A). Furthermore, the membrane profile of the proteins detected by anti-HA and anti-V-ATPase was unchanged in gradients prepared in the presence of Mg2+, whereas the ER, as detected by anti-BiP, showed a large characteristic Mg2+ shift to heavier density fractions (Fig. 1B). This result, together with the localization analysis in yeast, suggests that CAX1 and CAX3 localize to the same endomembrane system, namely, the vacuole. [[FIGURE]] RNA-blotting analysis indicated that CAX3 transcripts were detected in Arabidopsis roots, stems, and flowers, but rarely in leaf tissues (CITATION). In comparison, CAX1 transcripts were highly accumulated in leaf tissues and were also detected in stems and flowers, with low levels of expression in roots (CITATION; CITATION). Given that CAX3 shows 93% similarity to CAX1, cross hybridization might still occur even though gene-specific probes were used in northern-blot analysis (CITATION). In order to verify the expression of these two closely related CAX members and to gain a more precise profile of the expression pattern of the genes, we constructed CAX promoter::β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporters for CAX1 and CAX3. A 2.0-kb genomic DNA sequences upstream of the translation initiation (AUG) codon were amplified by PCR using the promoter-specific primers corresponding to CAX1 and CAX3, respectively. The constructs CAX3::GUS and CAX1::GUS were transformed into Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (Col-0). As shown in Figure 2, GUS-staining patterns were comparable to those revealed by RNA-blotting analysis. In CAX1::GUS transgenic plants, CAX1::GUS expression was predominately detected in leaf tissues (Fig. 2, A and C) and in flowers of the mature plants (Fig. 2, K and L). In cotyledons and young leaves, GUS staining was predominant in the vascular cells (Fig. 2A). Weak GUS staining was seen in roots and stems (Fig. 2, E–G; data not shown), and in the root it was mostly in the vasculature. In comparison with CAX1::GUS, strong expression of CAX3::GUS was detected in roots, particularly in growing root tips (Fig. 2, H–J). However, GUS signals were rarely detected in leaf tissues and only occasionally detected in stem tissues (Fig. 2, B and D; data not shown). In mature plants, CAX3::GUS expression was observed in young flower buds as well as open flowers (Fig. 2M). Both CAX1::GUS and CAX3::GUS were also expressed in the flowers and siliques (Fig. 2, K–N). [[FIGURE]] Previous findings suggest that the N-terminal region of CAX1 acts as an autoinhibitory domain for H+/Ca2+ transport activity when expressed in yeast (CITATION). To further compare the properties of the CAX transporters with (CAX) and without (sCAX) the putative N-terminal autoinhibitory domain, we cloned these open reading frames into high-copy yeast expression plasmids and expressed them in a yeast strain deficient in vacuolar Ca2+ transporters and lacking functional calcineurin (CITATION; CITATION). This strain (K667) lacks the endogenous vacuolar Ca2+-ATPase PMC1 and vacuolar H+/Ca2+ antiporter VCX1 and thus is defective in vacuolar Ca2+ transport, making it unable to grow on high Ca2+ media such as 100 mm to 200 mm CaCl2 (CITATION). We examined the growth of yeast cells expressing empty vector control, N-terminally truncated CAX1 and CAX3 (sCAX1 and sCAX3), and full-length CAX1 and CAX3, in media containing 50 mm CaCl2. Under these semipermissive conditions, the vector control-expressing strain grew, albeit poorly; however, both the full-length CAX1 and truncated sCAX1-expressing cells suppressed the Ca2+ sensitivity, although the suppression by CAX1 was slightly weaker than sCAX1 (Fig. 3A). Interestingly, the CAX3-expressing cells grew weakly under these conditions yet still stronger than vector control, while the sCAX3-expressing cells grew in a manner similar to vector controls (Fig. 3A). In order to determine if there was some association between CAX1 and CAX3, we expressed both transporters simultaneously in this yeast strain, using His- and Ura-selectable yeast expression plasmids, and assayed for phenotypes under conditions that were nonpermissive for growth of each CAX transporter individually. Interestingly, the CAX1+CAX3 coexpression strain was able to grow at 150 mm Ca2+, while yeast expressing the full-length CAX1 or CAX3 individually could not grow (Fig. 3B). [[FIGURE]] Although the structural features of CAX3 are similar to CAX1, the role of CAX3 in Ca2+ transport and/or ion homeostasis is still unclear. sCAX1 is able to suppress the Ca2+ hypersensitivity of K667 yeast at 50 mm to 200 mm CaCl2, while sCAX3 cannot (Fig. 3A; CITATION; CITATION). In addition, unlike sCAX1-expressing plants (CITATION), transgenic tobacco plants expressing sCAX3 did not display altered stress sensitivity (CITATION; data not shown). To investigate the physiological role of CAX3 in plants, we used PCR screening to identify two T-DNA insertional lines of CAX3 from two different resources (CITATION; CITATION). As shown in Figure 4A, we have isolated an Arabidopsis line (cax3-1) from the Syngenta Arabidopsis Insertion Library (SAIL) collection (CITATION) in the Col-0 carrying a T-DNA insertion within the CAX3 open reading frame corresponding to an insertion after the amino acid Arg-193. The T-DNA insertion confers BASTA resistance. A homozygous line was isolated by PCR analysis combined with BASTA selection. We have also isolated another allele, cax3-2, from the SALK collection in Col-0 (CITATION). This T-DNA insertion conferred kanamycin (Kan) resistance. Homozygous lines were identified by PCR combined with Kan selection. Sequence analysis of the junction of the T-DNA insert determined that its location was between Phe-115 and Leu-116 (Fig. 4A). These disruptions in CAX3 did not produce detectable levels of CAX3 RNA (Fig. 4B), even when high levels (50 mm) of exogenous Ca2+ were added, an environmental factor which significantly increases the levels of CAX3 RNA (CITATION). Both the cax3-1 and the cax3-2 alleles were backcrossed to the wild type and the F1 and F2 progeny were analyzed as previously described (CITATION). The F2 progeny segregated 3:1 for the antibiotic resistance, indicating both alleles contain a single T-DNA insertion with a functional selection marker (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] In comparison with wild-type Col-0, Arabidopsis cax3 null alleles (cax3-1 and cax3-2) do not show any differences in seed germination, plant growth, or flowering time under normal growth conditions (data not shown). However, under Ca2+ stress conditions, both cax3-1 and cax3-2 had a 25% and 27% reduction in fresh growth weight when compared with wild-type controls and cax1-1 (Fig. 4C; data not shown). We demonstrated previously that deletion of CAX1 caused an approximately 50% decrease in vacuolar H+/Ca2+ antiport activity compared to wild-type plants (CITATION). This antiport activity was measured following an 18-h pretreatment of the plants with 100 mm CaCl2 prior to harvest and isolation of the vacuolar membrane vesicles. We wished to determine whether deletion of CAX3 caused a similar alteration in H+/Ca2+ antiport activity. Root tissue was harvested from wild-type, cax1, and cax3 plants pretreated with 100 mm CaCl2, and then H+/Ca2+ antiport activity was measured into vacuolar membrane vesicles by determining the accumulation of 10 μm CaCl2. While antiport activity into vesicles from cax1 plants was significantly decreased compared to wild type, consistent with our previous results, there was no significant change in activity from cax3 plants compared to wild type (Fig. 5A). [[FIGURE]] Another biochemical phenotype of the cax1 mutant is a reduction in activity of the V-type H+-ATPase (V-ATPase) at the tonoplast (CITATION). We also observed that increased expression of sCAX1 in the cax1 plant conferred an increase in V-ATPase activity (CITATION). This phenotype of altered V-ATPase activity was also observed following CAX3 deletion, when hydrolytic activity of the H+ pump was measured, although V-ATPase activity was not reduced as greatly in vacuolar membrane vesicles from cax3 plants (22% reduction in activity) compared to cax1 plants (38% reduction in activity; Fig. 5B). We found that the cax1 mutant had no significant alteration in vacuolar H+-PPase (V-PPase) activity compared to wild type (CITATION). Similarly, the cax3 mutant had equivalent V-PPase activity to wild-type and cax1 plants (data not shown). While cax1 plants displayed subtle stress tolerances and a late-flowering phenotype, eventually cax1 plants could grow and produce seeds normally (CITATION). In addition, both cax1 and cax3 null alleles were modestly sensitive to exogenous Ca2+ (CITATION; Fig. 4C). To determine the functional interaction between CAX1 and CAX3, we constructed cax1/cax3 double-deletion mutants by crossing cax1 with cax3 and then selecting for cax1/cax3 double mutants in the F2 generation. Homozygous alleles were identified by PCR. We first crossed the cax1 allele as a maternal with the cax3 allele as a parental. In the segregation analysis, 16 out of 238 individuals in the F2 generation were smaller and stunted plants that displayed leaf tip necrosis (Fig. 6; χ2 = 0.09; P = 0.79 for a 1:15 segregation ratio), and all these plants were identified as homozygous for both the cax1 and cax3 alleles (see below). Similarly, in the cross between cax3 (as a maternal) and cax1 (as a parental), 15 out of 220 individuals in a F2 population displayed identical phenotypes (χ2 = 0.12; P = 0.78 for a 1:15 segregation ratio). These analyses indicate that the double-mutant phenotypes result from deletion of both CAX1 and CAX3 alleles. [[FIGURE]] The double deletion of both CAX1 and CAX3 had drastic effects on plant growth and development (Fig. 6; data not shown). The cax1/cax3 plants grew more slowly and were much smaller in comparison with the wild-type and single-mutant plants when grown on soil under continuous light conditions (Fig. 6, A and B), although no difference in germination was observed among the wild type and mutants. In addition, the cax1/cax3 mutant plants showed necrotic symptoms on the leaf tips and later on the shoot apex (Fig. 6, A, C, and D). The primary inflorescence stem of cax1/cax3 plants grew slowly, and eventually necrosis occurred shortly after stem elongation (Fig. 6D). Like the rosette leaves, the cauline leaves also exhibited necrotic lesions at the leaf tips (Fig. 6D). However, the second, third, and fourth shoots continued branching and growing until eventually these floral shoots died. This continued lateral branching and slow growth of the primary stem gave the mutant a bushy appearance (Fig. 6B). Flower set was not significantly altered in the cax1/cax3 plant compared to wild-type and the single mutants, but silique size and seed numbers were dramatically reduced (Fig. 6, B and E). Both cax1 and cax3 mutant plants have subtle changes in response to ion stresses (CITATION; CITATION; Fig. 4C). cax1 plants are less sensitive to Mg2+ in comparison with the wild type (CITATION), while the growth of cax1 seedlings on high Ca2+ media is reduced compared to that of wild-type plants (CITATION). The sensitivity of the cax1/cax3 double mutant to a variety of different ion stresses was tested using conditions as previously described for cax1 (CITATION). cax1/cax3 mutant seedlings grew in a manner similar to wild type, and cax1 and cax3 single-mutant plants on standard one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) media (Fig. 6F) and on MS media containing additional Zn2+, Ni2+, Cd2+, and mannitol (data not shown). However, the growth of cax1/cax3 double-mutant plants was altered in response to a range of excess metal ions, such as Ca2+, Mg2+, and Mn2+. For example, when testing the single mutants and cax1/cax3 double mutant on media containing 10 mm, 25 mm, and 35 mm CaCl2, cax1/cax3 mutant plants showed high sensitivity to CaCl2 stress, whereas both cax1 and cax3 single-mutant plants were only slightly sensitive to high Ca2+ (Figs. 4C and 6G). The cax1/cax3 lines grew smaller and had darker, curled leaves that displayed leaf tip necrosis when grown on the Ca2+-containing media (Fig. 6, C and G). This phenotype was similar to the plants grown on soil under continuous light (Fig. 6A). Most interestingly, the cax1/cax3 plants displayed robust growth on medium containing 15 mm MgCl2, which caused growth defects in the control and cax3 lines (Fig. 6H) and the growth defects of the cax1/cax3 lines were suppressed by addition of MgCl2 (data not shown). In addition, seed yield was significantly increased by growing plants in nutrient media or by the exogenous application of MgCl2 to the soil (data not shown). To determine whether H+/Ca2+ antiport activity was further perturbed by deletion of both CAX1 and CAX3, 10 μm 45Ca2+ antiport activity was compared between wild-type, cax1, and cax3 single mutants, and the cax1/cax3 double mutant following exogenous CaCl2 pretreatment. Antiport activity into membrane vesicles from cax1 plants was greatly reduced compared to activity into vesicles from wild-type and cax3 plants as previously shown (50% reduction; CITATION), while activity from cax1/cax3 plants was also reduced compared to wild type and cax3, but still equivalent to the cax1 single-knockout plant (Fig. 7A). The cax1/cax3 double mutant showed a 47% reduction in V-ATPase activity over wild-type activity as compared to the 38% and 22% reductions measured in the cax1 or cax3 single mutants, respectively (Figs. 5B and 7B). The cax1/cax3 mutation had no significant effect on V-PPase activity compared to wild-type plants (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The mutant Arabidopsis lines cax1, cax3, and cax1/cax3 were grown in standard potting conditions with 8 h light, alongside wild-type controls. Growth of the double mutant was clearly not as robust as wild-type controls (Fig. 6; data not shown). During the vegetative growth phase shoot tissue was harvested and analyzed for Li+, B+, Na+, Mg2+, PO43−, K+, Ca2+, Mn2+, Fe3+, Co2+, Ni2+, Cu2+, Zn2+, As2+, Se2+, Mo2+, Cd2+, and Pb2+ using inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). Comparison of the ion profiles of each mutant against its respective wild-type controls grown in the same tray revealed several significant changes in the ionomes of both cax1 and cax1/cax3; however, no significant changes were observed in cax3. The concentrations of both Mn2+ and Zn2+ were reduced by 16% and 9% (P = 0.03; n = 13), respectively, in cax1. Furthermore, combination of the cax1 and cax3 mutations produced significant changes in PO43−, Ca2+, Mn2+, and Zn2+ in cax1/cax3, with increases in PO43−, Mn2+, and Zn2+ of 66%, 50%, and 38% (P = 0.04; n = 18), respectively, and a decrease in Ca2+ and Mg2+ of 17% and 16% (P = 0.01; n = 18; Fig. 8). The large increase observed in PO43−, Mn2+, and Zn2+ levels do not appear to be a cause of the cax1/cax3 morphological phenotype as this stunted-growth phenotype is not seen in wild-type plants treated with excess concentrations of PO43−, Mn2+, and Zn2+ (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To specifically assay the ionome of cax1/cax3 in roots, we grew the seedlings on half-strength MS medium plates and harvested shoots and roots after 17-d growth under 10-h-light conditions. As with the soil-grown plants, low Ca2+ levels were also observed in shoot tissue of the double mutant grown on plates; however, we saw no pronounced changes in the Ca2+ concentrations in roots compared to wild type (data not shown). No alterations were observed for any elements in the cax1/cax3 roots, although there were also no changes in the shoot of any of the other elements as observed before with the soil-grown plants. This may not be too surprising for PO43− and Zn2+, since PO43− is dramatically affected by Suc, and Zn2+ is affected by PO43− (CITATION).
!~MM~! To make transcriptional fusions to GUS reporter genes, CAX1 and CAX3 promoter regions upstream of the ATG start codon were amplified from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genomic DNA by PCR using the following primers: forward primer 5′-GAA TTC AAG CTT ACT GCA GTG CAG TTT ACA CAC-3′ and reverse primer 5′-GAA TTC GGA TCC TTC TCT ACT GAC TCA AAA CTT TG-3′ for the CAX1 promoter; and forward primer 5′-GAA TTC CTC GAG TTT ACA ACT ACA TAA GTT TTG-3′ and reverse primer 5′-GAA TTC GGA TCC GTT TTA AGA CGT TTT GAT TCT AC-3′ for the CAX3 promoter. The restriction enzyme sites HindIII, XhoI, and BamHI were introduced and underlined. The 2-kb PCR products of CAX1 and CAX3 promoter sequences were cloned into the pGEM-T vector (Promega, Madison, WI). The gene promoter fragments were subcloned into the HindIII/BamHI or XhoI/BamHI sites of the pBI121 vector (BD Bioscience CLONTECH, Palo Alto, CA), to replace the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and generate the chimeric CAX1::GUS or CAX3::GUS constructs. The triple HA epitope-tagged CAX3 (HA-CAX3) was constructed as previously described (CITATION). The HA-CAX3 gene was subcloned into the plant expression vector pBI121, which is driven by a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. All the recombinant plasmids and empty vector controls were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 (CITATION). These strains were used to transform the Arabidopsis Col-0 using the floral dip method (CITATION) or tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv K160) according to published methods (CITATION). For Arabidopsis transformation, T1 seeds were screened on the selection medium and resistance seedlings were transferred to soil, and T2 seeds were harvested. Homozygous lines were selected by examining the Kan resistance of T2 seedlings. Histochemical assays for GUS activity in T3 generation of Arabidopsis transgenic plants harboring CAX1::GUS or CAX3::GUS, respectively, were performed according to the protocol described previously (CITATION). The Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain K667 (cnb1::LEU2 pmc1::TRP1 vcx1Δ; CITATION) was used to express vector control and various CAX constructs. Yeast transformation and growth analysis was carried out as previously described (CITATION). Microsomal membranes were prepared from HA-CAX3-expressing tobacco leaf tissues as previously described (CITATION). Immunoblots were performed as previously described (CITATION). The HA epitope and the membrane marker proteins were detected as described previously (CITATION). To isolate cax3 null alleles, two T-DNA insertional lines were collected from the SAIL T-DNA insertion collection (CITATION) and the SALK T-DNA insertion collection (CITATION). Homozygous plants from each T3 generation were obtained by PCR screening using CAX3-specific and T-DNA border primers. A CAX3 forward primer, 5′-CTT CCG GGA AGC TGC GTA CAT AGA TGG ACC CAA C-3′, and a T-DNA left border primer, 5′-TAG CAT CTG AAT TTC ATA ACC AAT CTC GAT ACA-3′, were used to screen for the cax3-1 allele (SAIL line). The CAX3 forward primer (as above) and a T-DNA right border primer, 5′-TGG GAA AAC CTG GCG TTA CCC AAC TTA AT-3′, were used to screen for the cax3-2 allele (SALK line). A CAX3 forward primer (as above) and a CAX3 reverse primer, 5′-ATT CGC ATG AAA ACA TGA CGT AAC TCT TAG GTA-3′, were used to amplify the wild-type CAX3 gene. The location of the T-DNA insertion was determined by sequencing of the PCR product. Both cax3 alleles were backcrossed to their parental plants to remove any potential unlinked mutations. To create cax1/cax3 double-deletion mutants, cax1-1 and cax1-2 alleles were crossed with the cax3-1 allele, and the F2 generation was selected for cax1/cax3 double mutant. Homozygous alleles, cax1-1/cax3-1 and cax1-2/cax3-1, were identified by PCR combined with Kan or BASTA resistance selection. For RNA gel-blot analysis, 3-week-old Arabidopsis wild-type (Col-0) and cax3 mutant plants were harvested and treated with water (as a control) or 50 mm CaCl2 for 16 h. Total RNA was extracted, blotted, and hybridized with 32P-labeled CAX3 gene-specific probes as previously described (CITATION). Arabidopsis Col-0 was used in this study. Wild-type and cax single- and double-mutant seeds were surface sterilized, germinated, and grown on one-half-strength MS medium (CITATION) containing 0.5% Suc solidified with 0.8% agar. All plates were sealed with paper surgical tape (Tenderskin, The Kendall Company, Mansfield, MA) and incubated at 22°C under continuous cool-fluorescent illumination for various intervals of time under various environmental conditions. For the ion sensitivity assays, 5-d-old wild-type and cax seedlings grown under normal conditions were transferred onto one-half-strength MS media and the identical media supplemented with various metal ions (CITATION). To examine morphological phenotypes of mature wild-type and cax single- and double-mutant plants, seeds were sown in artificial soil (Metromix 200, Scotts, Marysville, OH), then kept at 4°C for 2 d to synchronize germination and then grown at 24°C under continuous light. Plants were observed after germination until 6 weeks of age. All photos were taken using a Nikon digital camera (Nikon Coolpix 995, Nikon, Tokyo). Membrane vesicles preparation, Ca2+ uptake, and V-ATPase assay were performed as described previously (CITATION). The morphology of the vacuoles (central vacuoles and small vacuoles) in both protoplasts and intact root tissue cells of wild-type and cax single- and double-mutant plants was examined as previously described (CITATION). Ion profiling was performed as previously described (CITATION). Plants were grown in a climate-controlled room at 19°C to 24°C with 8 h of light at 90 to 150 μE, and plants were misted with 18 MΩ water daily and harvested after 44 d. Plants were grown in Sunshine Mix Number 2 (Sun Gro Horticulture, Baltimore). Plants were bottom watered and fed with 0.25× Hoagland solution at regular intervals. Plants were nondestructively subsampled by removing two to three leaves (0.03–0.14 g fresh weight) and washing with 0.1% Triton X-100 followed by 18 MΩ water before being placed in Pyrex digestion tubes. Digestion was carried out in Pyrex tubes using 1.50 mL concentrated HNO3 (Fisher TraceMetal grade) at 118°C for 4 h. Each sample was diluted to 16.0 mL with 18 MΩ water and analyzed on a Thermo Elemental PQ ExCell ICP-MS using a glass Conical nebulizer drawing 1 mL per minute. Samples were run twice through the ICP-MS using both hot and cold plasma to measure 18 elements of interest. Beryllium, gallium, and niobium internal standards (EM Science, Gibbstown, NJ), National Institute of Standards and Technology traceable calibration standards (ULTRAScientific, North Kingstown RI), and external drift correction were used. Analysis was performed by ICP-MS for Li+, B+, Na+, Mg2+, PO43−, K+, Ca2+, Mn2+, Fe3+, Co2+, Ni2+, Cu2+, Zn2+, As2+, Se2+, Mo2+, Cd2+, and Pb2+. To increase throughput, sample weights were derived from ICP-MS data by comparing the concentrations of various elements in the sample to those of weighed wild-type controls as described previously (CITATION). In order to perform ICP-MS analysis for root and shoot tissues, the wild-type and mutant seeds were germinated and grown on half-strength MS media under same lighting and growth condition. The root and shoot tissues were harvested after 17-d growth on the medium plates.
