!~ABS~! The distribution of folates in plant cells suggests a complex traffic of the vitamin between the organelles and the cytosol. The Arabidopsis thaliana protein AtFOLT1 encoded by the At5g66380 gene is the closest homolog of the mitochondrial folate transporters (MFTs) characterized in mammalian cells. AtFOLT1 belongs to the mitochondrial carrier family, but GFP-tagging experiments and Western blot analyses indicated that it is targeted to the envelope of chloroplasts. By using the glycine auxotroph Chinese hamster ovary glyB cell line, which lacks a functional MFT and is deficient in folates transport into mitochondria, we showed by complementation that AtFOLT1 functions as a folate transporter in a hamster background. Indeed, stable transfectants bearing the AtFOLT1 cDNA have enhanced levels of folates in mitochondria and can support growth in glycine-free medium. Also, the expression of AtFOLT1 in Escherichia coli allows bacterial cells to uptake exogenous folate. Disruption of the AtFOLT1 gene in Arabidopsis does not lead to phenotypic alterations in folate-sufficient or folate-deficient plants. Also, the atfolt1 null mutant contains wild-type levels of folates in chloroplasts and preserves the enzymatic capacity to catalyze folate-dependent reactions in this subcellular compartment. These findings suggest strongly that, despite many common features shared by chloroplasts and mitochondria from mammals regarding folate metabolism, the folate import mechanisms in these organelles are not equivalent: folate uptake by mammalian mitochondria is mediated by a unique transporter, whereas there are alternative routes for folate import into chloroplasts. 
!~RES~! Cloning of Mammalian MFT Homologs in Arabidopsis—We searched the Arabidopsis genome for genes encoding putative homologs of the human mitochondrial folate transporter (HsMFT) and found that all the candidates were hypothetical members of the mitochondrial carrier family. In silico analysis of the complete Arabidopsis genome has revealed 57 members in this family, of which only onefourth have been functionally characterized (CITATION). Among the best hits of our BLASTP search, the product of the At5g66380 gene shared the highest sequence identity with the human and zebrafish MFTs (40.9 and 36.8%, respectively) (Fig. 2). The corresponding cDNA (named AtFOLT1 for A. thaliana FOLate Transporter 1) was cloned by PCR using reverse-transcribed mRNAs from the Wassilewskija ecotype. Sequence analysis revealed nine nucleotide changes between the AtFOLT1 and At5g66380 cDNA (ecotype Columbia, GenBank™ accession number BT010139). Among these changes, only one leads to an altered amino acid at position 26 (Pro for AtFOLT1, Ser for At5g66380). It is unlikely that this point mutation affects the AtFOLT1 function because: (i) the full-length Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) cDNA sequenced by the CERES company (CERES:118596) also encodes for a Pro at position 26; (ii) a Pro residue is present at the same position on the human and zebrafish MFTs; and (iii) this Pro residue is included in one of the energy signature motifs characteristic of the mitochondrial carrier family (Fig. 2B), in which it is involved in the three-dimensional organization of the odd-numbered transmembrane helices (CITATION). The cDNAs coding the At2g47490 and At1g25380 proteins, which share 31-36% identity with HsMFT (Fig. 2), were also cloned by PCR. These cDNAs showed two and one polymorphic sites, respectively, compared with the corresponding sequences deposited in the Arabidopsis Information Resource data base (www.arabidopsis.org). Of these SNP, two resulted in silent substitutions for the At2g47490 cDNA, and one in a change from a Leu (position 84, Wassilewskija sequence) to Ser (Col-0 sequence) in the At1g25380 protein.  [[FIGURE]]  [[FIGURE]]  AtFOLT1 is a 34-kDa protein that exhibits a hydrophobic profile with six putative transmembrane domains, a tripartite structure made up of related tandem domains of about 100 residues in length, and sequence motifs that are characteristic of the mitochondrial carrier family (CITATION). Sequence homology between AtFOLT1 and HsMFT extends throughout the entire proteins and several highly conserved blocks are preserved (Fig. 2B). They particularly correspond to the six putative transmembrane α-helices and the three domains located within pairs of odd- and even-numbered helices, which are predicted to extrude into the matrix side of the membrane (CITATION, CITATION).  Subcellular Localization of AtFOLT1—Not all of the members of the plant mitochondrial carrier family are actually targeted to mitochondria because the plastid envelope membrane harbors several transporters of this family (for a review see Ref. CITATION). Analyses of the AtFOLT1 sequence using different programs failed to predict a subcellular location for this protein with a high probability. However, the prediction results from the ChloroP version 1.1 program (chloroplastic transit peptide: score, 0.505; length, 11 residues (CITATION)) and the identification of At5g66380 during the in silico analysis of the Arabidopsis genome using features typical for the chloroplast envelope integral membrane proteins (CITATION) suggested that AtFOLT1 is a chloroplastic protein.  [[FIGURE]]  To analyze the subcellular localization of AtFOLT1 we transfected Arabidopsis protoplasts with a plasmid encoding a fusion between the full-length AtFOLT1 protein and GFP. Protoplasts expressing GFP alone typically showed green fluorescence throughout the cytosol and nucleoplasm (Fig. 3). In contrast, expression of AtFOLT1:GFP resulted in a punctuate pattern of green fluorescence that colocalized with the red autofluorescence of chlorophyll and that was similar to the one observed for the Cp:GFP plastidial control (Fig. 3). A thorough survey of protoplasts expressing the AtFOLT1:GFP fusion never revealed a fluorescence pattern similar to the one detected for the Mt:GFP mitochondrial control, thus excluding in vivo targeting of AtFOLT1:GFP to mitochondria. These data demonstrate that AtFOLT1 is efficiently targeted to chloroplasts, even though it does not exhibit a canonical transit peptide sequence. In addition, the green fluorescence of the AtFOLT1:GFP fusion seems to be brighter at the chloroplast periphery, thus suggesting a localization in the chloroplast envelope (Fig. 3).  To confirm the subcellular location of AtFOLT1 by an alternative approach we raised a polyclonal serum against a synthetic peptide and prepared subfractions from Percoll-purified Arabidopsis leaf chloroplasts. Previous proteomic studies indicated that Percoll-purified Arabidopsis chloroplasts isolated using similar procedures contained minute amounts of protein contaminants from other subcellular compartments (CITATION, CITATION). The envelope, thylakoid, and stromal protein subfractions were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Western blot to check for cross-contaminations. As shown in Fig. 4B, antibodies against the 2-oxoglutarate/malate translocator (IEP45, envelope marker (CITATION)) gave a strong signal in the envelope fraction and only a very faint labeling in thylakoids. Probing the plastidial subfractions with antibodies against the major thylakoid light-harvesting complex proteins indicated that the envelope preparation contained no more than 1-3% thylakoid proteins (Fig. 4B (CITATION)). These data indicated that the chloroplast subfractions were poorly cross-contaminated and thus suitable to analyze the localization of AtFOLT1 by Western blot. As shown in Fig. 4B, a 33 ± 1-kDa polypeptide was immunodetected in the envelope but not in the stroma or thylakoid subfractions using the purified anti-AtFOLT1 antibodies (this polypeptide was not detected with the pre-immune serum). Also, when membrane proteins from Percoll-purified Arabidopsis mitochondria were analyzed using the AtFOLT1 antibodies, no polypeptide having the predicted molecular weight of AtFOLT1 could be detected (data not shown). Together with the GFP-tagging experiments shown in Fig. 3, these results clearly indicate that AtFOLT1 is located in the envelope of chloroplasts.  AtFOLT1 Can Complement the Auxotrophy Demonstrated by CHO glyB Cells—GlyB, a CHO-derived cell line (CITATION), was previously characterized to be deficient in accumulation of folates in the mitochondria, an effect that rendered these cells auxotrophic for glycine as a result of a strong restriction in serine hydroxymethyltransferase activity in mitochondria (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Recently, it was shown that glyB cells contain a point mutation (G192E) within the open reading frame of a gene encoding a mitochondrial inner membrane protein responsible for the transport of folates into the matrix of mitochondria (CITATION). cDNAs for the human, mouse, and zebrafish MFT were found to efficiently complement glyB cells, indicating their function as folate mitochondrial transporters in a hamster background (CITATION). To address whether AtFOLT1 was able to confer mitochondrial folates transport, we stably transfected pcDNA-AtFOLT1 into glyB cells using a calcium phosphate mediated procedure. After 3 days, the cultures were placed under either single selection conditions containing medium supplemented with G418 for determining transfection efficiency or under double selection conditions containing glycine-free medium supplemented with G418. After 10 days of selection, colonies were fixed and stained. In several experiments, transfection of the AtFOLT1 cDNA consistently allowed the formation of colonies in glycine-free medium with a frequency of 20% (Fig. 5). This value is lower than the frequency seen with a CHO MFT cDNA, for which transfection plates had nearly identical numbers of colonies under single or double selection (Fig. 5). Control transfections using pcDNA3.1 did not result in colony formation under double selection. When cDNAs encoding two other Arabidopsis candidate folate transporters (At2g47490 and At1g25380, Fig. 2) were used in transfection assays, no colonies were formed under double selection (Fig. 5C), lending credence to the specificity of the effect seen with AtFOLT1.  To confirm the authenticity of this complementation, 40 colonies were picked from single selection plates, and each colony was expanded in medium containing glycine. Cells from each mass culture were plated in replicate wells in media allowing single and double selection. Of the 40 cultures thus isolated under non-selective conditions, 10 (i.e. 25%) showed progressive growth in medium formulated without glycine; growth was followed for two passages. Interestingly, some cultures consistently formed large colonies in glycine-deficient medium when plated at low density, others formed small colonies. This behavior recapitulated the large and small colonies observed under double selection conditions. We concluded that the Arabidopsis chloroplastic protein AtFOLT1 can complement the auxotrophy demonstrated by glyB cells, albeit less efficiently than mitochondrial folate transporters of mammalian origin.  AtFOLT1 Enhances Levels of Folates in the Mitochondria of glyB Cells—Two of the clonally expanded pcDNA-AtFOLT1 transfectants were selected to determine whether the AtFOLT1 protein could circumvent the folates depletion in mitochondria. These two expanded colonies differed in growth rate, with one (designated glyB/AtFOLT1-2) forming exclusively large colonies from single cells, and the other (glyB/AtFOLT1-32) forming smaller colonies. Cultures of both transfectant cell lines were incubated with [3H]folic acid for 48 h, and the cells were harvested and fractionated into various compartments (TABLE ONE). In each of three experiments, the mitochondrial folate pool in glyB/AtFOLT1-2 cells was expanded 4-fold relative to the folate content of glyB cells, which corresponded to 39% of the mitochondrial pool found in CHO cells (TABLE ONE). The mitochondrial folate content in glyB/AtFOLT1-32, which grew much slower than glyB/AtFOLT1-2, was consistently higher than that found in glyB cells, but it was much lower than that found in glyB/AtFOLT1-2. This difference suggested that the substantial variation in colony size seen in the AtFOLT1 transfection plates may reflect changes in levels of expression of the AtFOLT1 protein with concomitant differences in folates uptake into mitochondria. Overall, we concluded that the Arabidopsis chloroplastic protein AtFOLT1 can partially restore the mitochondrial folates pool in glyB cells if expressed at high enough levels. The level of folates found in the cytosol of glyB/AtFOLT1-2 cells was also noticeably (∼2.5-fold) higher than those found in either glyB or CHO cells (TABLE ONE). We concluded that expression of the Arabidopsis protein in hamster cells probably also affected plasma membrane transport of folate, thus suggesting some degree of incorrect targeting that is not unusual in heterologous expression systems.  [[TABLE]]  [[FIGURE]]  AtFOLT1 Allows E. coli Cells to Mediate Folic Acid Uptake—To establish whether AtFOLT1 can mediate folate transport in another physiological context we used E. coli as an alternative heterologous expression system. Many bacteria, including E. coli, are folate autotrophs and normally do not have the ability to import and utilize exogenous folates. Thus, when de novo THF synthesis is blocked by specific inhibitors such as the p-aminobenzoate analogs sulfonamides, bacterial growth cannot be restored by the addition of folates in the culture medium. The cDNA coding a truncated AtFOLT1 protein without the short N-terminal extension located before the first predicted transmembrane α-helix was cloned in pTrc99A and introduced in E. coli JM105 cells. Transformants harboring pTrc-AtFOLT1 or the empty pTrc99A vector were tested for growth in liquid minimal medium containing asulam (methyl sulfanilylcarbamate) and with or without folic acid. As shown in Fig. 6A the inhibition of the dihydropteroate synthase activity by asulam fully impaired growth of the pTrc99A transformants in the presence of exogenous folic acid. In contrast, the expression of AtFOLT1 restored growth of the JM105 strain only when folic acid is present in the medium. When IPTG was omitted from the selective medium the growth of cells harboring pTrc-At-FOLT1 was delayed, thus suggesting that growth kinetics depend on the expression level of the recombinant protein (the IPTG-inducible trc promoter located upstream the AtFOLT1 sequence is strong, and uninduced cells may show low level of protein expression). To verify this hypothesis we analyzed by Western blot the expression of AtFOLT1 in JM105 cells. As shown in Fig. 6B, only E. coli cells bearing the pTrc-AtFOLT1 plasmid and cultured for several hours in the presence of IPTG expressed a 33 ± 1-kDa polypeptide detected with the purified anti-AtFOLT1 antibodies, thus indicating that the recombinant protein accumulated upon trc promoter induction. These data indicate that the expression of AtFOLT1 allows E. coli cells to mediate folic acid uptake from the external medium.  Characterization of an Arabidopsis atfolt1 Null Mutant—To investigate the function of AtFOLT1 in planta, we required a mutant that lacked a functional AtFOLT1 allele and searched the indexed insertion mutant data base from the SIGnAL website (signal.salk.edu). We found a knock-out mutant (SALK_005280, line atfolt1-1) and obtained the corresponding T3 segregating seeds from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. Homozygous plants (atfolt1-1#6 and atfolt1-1#10) were selected by PCR and sequence analysis of the junction fragments obtained with T-DNA and gene-specific primers identified the T-DNA insertion in exon 10 (Fig. 7, A and B). The AtFOLT1::T-DNA locus was verified by DNA gel blot analysis using AtFOLT1 and T-DNA probes. The observed patterns (Fig. 7C) are consistent with PCR analysis and indicate that the homozygous plants do not contain any additional T-DNA insertions elsewhere in the genome. RT-PCR analysis indicated that the AtFOLT1 transcript was not expressed in homozygous atfolt1-1#6 and atfolt1-1#10 plants (Fig. 7D).  A survey of the expression pattern of the At5g66380 gene using the Arabidopsis microarray data base Genevestigator (CITATION) indicated that AtFOLT1 is expressed in all the examined organs and tissues at almost similar levels. Also, the use of the Genevestigator “gene chronologer” toolbox and quantitative RT-PCR analysis done with Col-0 plants grown in our greenhouse (data not shown) indicated that the AtFOLT1 gene is expressed constitutively at all growth stages, from germination to plant senescence. From these data, we hypothesized that a phenotype could be detected for the atfolt1 null mutant at any stage of plant development. Thus, the atfolt1-1#6 and atfolt1-1#10 null mutants and the wild-type Col-0 were cultured side-by-side under standard conditions and their growth characteristics were compared. Throughout the examined growing period, there were no significant differences between the mutant and wild-type plants in terms of germination efficiency, growth rates, morphology, seed production, and fertility. Also, measurements of photosynthesis and respiration rates in rosette leaves at different stages of development did not show significant changes in the mutant as compared with the wild-type. To characterize further the phenotype of the atfolt1 mutant, we grew plants under conditions leading to a depletion of the cellular pool of folates. For this purpose, plants were allowed to germinate and grow under defined nutrient conditions on agar medium supplemented with sulfanilamide or MTX, two folate antagonists that were found to be useful in manipulating the availability of THF in plants (CITATION). Sulfanilamide is an inhibitor of dihydropteroate synthase, whereas MTX blocks the reduction of dihydrofolate to THF catalyzed by dihydrofolate reductase (CITATION). Seeds were exposed to a range of concentrations (from 10-9 to 2.10-4 m) of the drugs added separately and analyzed during a 2-week period. The presence of one of these inhibitors in the medium resulted in a dose-dependent growth retardation with more severe effects of MTX versus sulfanilamide, as previously observed (CITATION). Under these conditions we could not observe any clear phenotypic difference between the wild-type and the atfolt1 mutant, thus suggesting that the absence of AtFOLT1 did not modify seedling sensitivity to the antifolate drugs. In another set of experiments, seedlings were grown for 10 days in a standard medium and then transferred to sulfanilamide or MTX-containing medium. Again, the developmental consequences of folate depletion we observed were not significantly different for the wild-type and mutant lines.  [[FIGURE]]  [[FIGURE]]  [[FIGURE]]  To determine whether the absence of AtFOLT1 affects the folate status of the null mutants, we measured the pools of folates (THF and its C1 derivatives) in leaves. As shown in Fig. 8A, the folates levels in 10-day-old leaves was about 5 nmol per gram of fresh weight and progressively decreased down to 2.5 nmol g-1 fresh weight in 28-day-old leaves. A similar behavior was found for the atfolt1 null mutants, and the values obtained at any stage of growth were not significantly different for the wild-type and the mutants (Fig. 8A). Chloroplastic folates have been shown to contribute to only 10% of the cellular pool of the vitamin (CITATION), thus modest changes in folates levels in leaves could have been masked by experimental variations. To deal with this hypothesis, we purified chloroplasts from 22-day-old leaves and measured their folates content (Fig. 8B). The wild-type, the atfolt1-1#6, and atfolt1-1#10 mutants contained 114 ± 17, 101 ± 15, and 104 ± 17 pmol folates per milligram of chloroplastic soluble proteins, respectively (means ± S.D. for two independent chloroplast purifications analyzed in triplicates). These results indicate that the absence of AtFOLT1 reduced neither the chloroplastic nor the cellular pools of folates in Arabidopsis leaves.  To assess the effect of the atfolt1 mutation on one-carbon metabolism in chloroplasts, we analyzed the expression of two folate-dependent enzymes present in this compartment. Western blot analysis indicated that the chloroplastic folylpolyglutamate synthetase was detected at similar levels in the wild-type and mutant plants (Fig. 8C). Also, both the cytosolic and chloroplastic methionine synthase isoforms are present in nearly similar amounts in both Arabidopsis lines (Fig. 8D). Taken together these data suggest that the atfolt1 null mutant and the wild-type have the same enzymatic capacity to catalyze both the glutamylation of THF and the methyl-THF-dependent synthesis of methionine in the chloroplasts.  We have selected a second independent Arabidopsis atfolt1 null mutant (SALK_059769) in which the T-DNA insertion is located at the junction between intron 7 and exon 8 of the AtFOLT1 gene. Plants homozygous for the mutation failed to accumulate the AtFOLT1 mRNA, had no discernable phenotype when grown under folate-sufficient conditions, and contained wild-type levels of folates in leaves (data not shown). These results are consistent with the data presented for the atfolt1-1 knock-out line. 
!~MM~! Plant Growth Conditions—Wild-type and mutant Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia, Col-0) plants were grown on soil in a growth chamber (22 °C, 60% air humidity, light intensity of 150 μE m-2 s-1, 16 h light/8 h dark). Seeds of the T-DNA insertion line SALK_005280 generated at the Salk Institute Genome Analysis Laboratory (CITATION) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. For selection of transformed plants and growth studies in controlled conditions, seeds were surface-sterilized and plated on the agar-solidified medium described in Ref. CITATION containing either kanamycin (50 μg/ml) or folate analogs (sulfanilamide or MTX, 10-9 to 2 × 10-4 m). Plates were kept at 4 °C in the dark for 4 days before being transferred to the growth chamber. A. thaliana (ecotype Columbia) cell suspension cultures were grown under continuous white light (40 μE m-2 s-1) at 23°C in Gamborg's B5 medium supplemented with 1 μm 2-naphthalene acetic acid and 1.5% (w/v) sucrose.  cDNAs Cloning—The full-length cDNAs coding At5g66380 (AtFOLT1), At2g47490, and At1g25380 were obtained by PCR using a cDNA amplification library prepared from above-ground parts of 3-week-old A. thaliana (ecotype Wassilewskija) plants (CITATION). PCR was done with the proofreading Pfu DNA polymerase (Promega) using the following primers: FT1-1, AGGATTCGTTGATGGCGGCG; FT1-2, GTGACAAGTCAACCGCGTGC; At2g47490-1, GGTGACGCGTTTCCTCAAGG; At2g47490-2, CCGGATTTAAAGTATAGAGCTTTG; At1g25380-1, CCCCCAATTGAGAGATTCTAGG; and At1g25380-2, ACGTAGTTGGAACATGGCATCG. The PCR products were subcloned into the pBluescriptII KS vector digested with SmaI and sequenced (GenomeExpress, Meylan, France).  Localization of AtFOLT1:GFP—Plasmid p35Ω-sGFP(S65T) expressing an engineered version of the green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (CITATION) was used for transient expression experiments in Arabidopsis protoplasts. The full-length AtFOLT1 sequence was amplified from pKS-AtFOLT1 by high fidelity PCR using Pfu DNA polymerase and primers FT1-GFP5′ (GTCGACTGATGGCGGCGTCGTGGC) and FT1-GFP3′ (CCATGGAATCTTTTGTTGTTGGATGCTG). The resulting fragment was digested with SalI and NcoI and inserted between the corresponding sites of p35Ω-sGFP(S65T). The resulting plasmid pGFP-AtFOLT1 and p35Ω-sGFP(S65T) were used to transform protoplasts prepared from a 4-day-old Arabidopsis cell suspension culture essentially as described in Ref. CITATION. GFP chimera bearing the transit peptide sequences of the small subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase from Arabidopsis and dihydropterin pyrophosphokinase/dihydropteroate synthase from Pisum sativum were used as controls for the targeting of GFP to plastids and mitochondria, respectively (CITATION). Samples were analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy using a Leica TCS-SP2 operating system as described (CITATION).  CaPO4-mediated Transfection of AtFOLT1 into glyB Cells—The full-length AtFOLT1 sequence was excised from pKS-AtFOLT1 with XbaI and HindIII and subcloned into the same sites of pcDNA3.1+ (Invitrogen). The resulting plasmid pcDNA-AtFOLT1 allows the expression of AtFOLT1 under the control of the human cytomegalovirus immediate-early promoter. CHO glyB cells maintained in α minimal essential medium (Invitrogen) were plated at a density of 2 × 105 cells/100-mm plate. The following day, plasmid (5 μg/plate) was mixed with 1 m CaCl2 and HEBS (19.2 mm HEPES, 135 mm NaCl, 5 mm KCl, 0.45 mm Na2PO4, and 10 mm dextrose) in a total volume of 1 ml/plate and added to the cells for 30 min at room temperature. Nine milliliters of media was added to each plate, and the cultures were incubated at 37 °C. Twenty-four h later, the cells were briefly shocked with Me2SO, the medium was changed, and the cells were allowed to recover for 48 h. Transfectants were selected in α minimal essential medium supplemented with 10% dialyzed fetal calf serum and 1 mg/ml of G418 with or without glycine in the medium. Cells were grown for 10 days and colonies were fixed, stained, and counted.  Subcellular Distribution of Folates in glyB Transformants—Several colonies of glyB cells stably transfected with the AtFOLT1 construct were selected and expanded into cultures. Cultures were seeded at 6 × 106/175 cm2 in α minimal essential medium supplemented with dialyzed fetal calf serum and 0.3 μCi/ml [3H]folic acid (Moravek) for 48 h. Cells were then harvested by trypsinization and pelleted. The pellets were resuspended in 10 ml of phosphate-buffered saline (5% fetal calf serum), counted, and re-pelleted. The cells were homogenized in 0.25 m sucrose and 1 mm EDTA using a hand-held Dounce homogenizer, and the various subcellular fractions (nuclei and unbroken cells, mitochondria, and cytosol) were isolated by centrifugation as described previously (CITATION). Radioactivity in the various fractions was determined by scintillation counting.  Expression of AtFOLT1 in E. coli JM105 Cells—The AtFOLT1 coding sequence lacking the first six residues located before the first predicted transmembrane α-helix was amplified from pcDNA-AtFOLT1 by high fidelity PCR using Pfu DNA polymerase and primers FT1-pTrc5′ (GGAATTCCATATGGAAAATGCCACCGCCGGC) and FT1-pTrc3′ (ACGAGCTCCTAATCTTTTGTTGTTGGATGC). The resulting fragment was digested with EcoRI and SacI, and inserted between the corresponding sites of pTrc99A (Amersham Biosciences). The resulting plasmid pTrc-AtFOLT1 was introduced first in E. coli DH5α strain, the sequence was verified, and then the plasmid was added into E. coli JM105 strain. Independent transformants harboring pTrc-AtFOLT1 or the empty pTrc99A vector were grown in LB containing 100 μg/ml carbenicillin until A600 reached 0.3. Cells were collected by centrifugation, washed three times in 0.9% (w/v) NaCl, and diluted to A600 = 0.0015 in M9 minimal medium (CITATION) containing 0.4% (w/v) glucose, 10 μg/ml thiamine, 100 μg/ml carbenicillin, and 30 μm asulam. Folic acid (50 μm) and/or IPTG (1 mm) were added to this medium, and cells were allowed to grow at 37 °C. Bacterial growth was monitored by measuring A600. To analyze the expression of AtFOLT1 in JM105 cells, pTrc-At-FOLT1 and pTrc99A transformants were grown in LB medium until A600 was 0.6, at which point 1 mm IPTG was added. Incubation was continued at 37 °C, and cells were collected by centrifugation at different time intervals and then suspended in SDS-PAGE loading buffer. Total proteins from ∼2 × 108 cells were separated by SDS-PAGE and analyzed by Western blot using purified AtFOLT1 antibodies.  Nucleic Acid Manipulations—For PCR analysis Arabidopsis genomic DNA was isolated as described in Ref. CITATION and amplified using the Titanium™ TaqDNA polymerase (Clontech) and primer pairs specific for the AtFOLT1 gene (FT1-2 and FT1-5, CGACCTAGTACCAACGGAATCC) or the T-DNA insertion (RB1, GCTCATGATCAGATTGTCGTTTCCCGCCTT and LB1, GGCAATCAGCTGTTGCCCGTCTCACTGGTG). Amplicons were separated by 1.4% (w/v) agarose gel electrophoresis, purified, and sequenced. For Southern analysis, genomic DNA was digested, separated by 0.7% (w/v) agarose gel, and transferred to a Hybond-N+membrane (Amersham Biosciences). Hybridization was at 42 °C in 6× SSC, 5× Denhardt's solution, 50% (v/v) formamide, 0.5% (w/v) SDS, and 100 μg/ml herring sperm DNA. The 4.9-kb BglII fragment of the pROK2 vector corresponding to the entire T-DNA region (CITATION) and the full-length AtFOLT1 cDNA were labeled with 32P using random primers and used as probes.  For RT-PCR analysis, total RNA was isolated from leaves by using the RNeasy plant mini extraction kit (Qiagen). RNA (3 μg) was treated with DNase I, and first strand cDNA was synthesized with the ThermoScript RT-PCR system (Invitrogen). AtFOLT1 and actin2 (At5g09810) were amplified by PCR with the Titanium™ TaqDNA polymerase using specific primers: FT1-1 and FT1-11, CTGCCTCTAGCGTACCTCTGC; At5g09810-Fwd, ACATCGTTCTCAGTGGTGGTTC; and At5g09810-Rev, ACCTGACTCATCGTACTCACTC. Amplicons were then analyzed by 1.4% (w/v) agarose gel electrophoresis.  Folates Measurements in Leaves and Chloroplasts—Folates were determined using the microbiological assay with Lactobacillus casei ATCC7469 (American Type Culture Collection) as described in Ref. CITATION. Leaves were harvested at different stages of development and ground to a fine powder in liquid nitrogen before extraction of folates. Chloroplasts from 3-week-old Arabidopsis rosettes were purified on Percoll gradients as described in Ref. CITATION. Intact chloroplasts were submitted to three freeze/thaw cycles to ensure complete lysis, and membranes were removed by centrifugation at 16,000 × g for 30 min at 4 °C. The supernatant was used for folates and protein measurements (CITATION).  Protein Extraction and Immunoblot Analysis—Soluble proteins from Arabidopsis leaves were extracted by grinding powdered samples in 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 10 mm β-mercaptoethanol, 5% (v/v) glycerol, 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1 mm aminocaproic acid. Samples were centrifuged at 130,000 × g for 20 min at 4 °C, and the supernatant was used as a source of soluble proteins. Total proteins were extracted in the above buffer containing 1% (w/v) SDS, incubated at 4 °C for 30 min, and centrifuged at 16,000 × g for 20 min at 4 °C. The supernatant was used as a source of total proteins. Intact Percoll-purified chloroplasts were lysed in the hypotonic protein extraction buffer described above and plastidial subfractions (envelope, thylakoids, and stroma) were separated by ultracentrifugation on a step gradient of sucrose as described in Ref. CITATION.  Proteins were resolved by SDS-PAGE and electroblotted to nitrocellulose membrane (BA85, Schleicher & Schuell). The blots were probed with primary antibodies raised against AtFOLT1, IEP45 (2-oxoglutarate/malate translocator, At5g12860 (CITATION)), light-harvesting complex proteins (P16 protein from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii (CITATION)), chloroplastic folylpolyglutamate synthetase (CITATION), or methionine synthase (CITATION). The synthetic AtFOLT1 peptide RAKQRYARGRDDEK (residues 90-103) coupled to the carrier protein KLH was used to raise a rabbit polyclonal serum (Neosystem SA, Strasbourg, France). IgG were purified from the serum using a HiTrap NHS-activated HP column according to the manufacturer's instructions (Amersham Biosciences). Purified antibodies were further desalted in phosphate-buffered saline and concentrated using a Microsep 3K unit. Primary antibodies were detected by using a chemiluminescent detection system (ECL, Amersham Biosciences). 
