!~ABS~! The transcription machinery of small nuclear RNA (snRNA) genes has been investigated extensively in human cell-free systems, but its physiological function in vivo has not been addressed. This paper demonstrates the physiological role of an activator of snRNA transcription using a temperature-sensitive mutant of Arabidopsis thaliana, srd2. Phenotypic characteristics of the srd2 mutant suggest that the SRD2 gene participates in the control of competence in cell proliferation. The SRD2 gene encodes a nuclear protein that shares sequence similarity with the human SNAP50 protein, which is a subunit of SNAPc and is required for snRNA transcription in vitro. Our results, obtained from analysis of snRNA expression in the srd2 mutant, indicate that the SRD2 protein functions in the upregulation of transcription of snRNA genes, the promoters of which contain the upstream sequence element, to elevate cell proliferation competence.
!~RES~! srd2 is a temperature-sensitive mutant of Arabidopsis thaliana that was isolated by screening, with shoot redifferentiation as an index phenotype (CITATION). Detailed characterization of the srd2 mutant has shown it has pleiotropic defects in several aspects of development (CITATION; CITATION). Figure 1 presents an overview of the srd2 phenotypes. We found that the development of true leaves and roots in seedlings is affected by the srd2 mutation (Figure 1a,b). srd2 seedlings grown at the permissive temperature (22°C) appeared almost normal except that they had fewer lateral roots than the wild-type seedlings. At the restrictive temperature (28°C), however, the development of true leaves and primary roots in srd2 seedlings was severely interrupted. Other characteristics of the srd2 mutant were observed in tissue culture experiments. Whereas root explants of the srd2 mutant formed calli on callus-inducing medium (CIM), at either 22°C or 28°C, callus formation from srd2 hypocotyl explants was strongly inhibited at 28°C (Figure 1c,d). In Figure 1(e–h), the temperature-dependent defect in the initial phase of callus formation from hypocotyl explants was visualized by the GUS expression from an M-phase-specific reporter gene, CYCB1;1::GUS. Shoot regeneration stimulated by culture on shoot-inducing medium (SIM) also exhibited distinct temperature sensitivity in the srd2 explants (Figure 1i). At 28°C, both hypocotyl and root explants of the srd2 mutant could not establish shoot apical meristems de novo. When primary root segments of srd2 were cultured on root-inducing medium (RIM) at 28°C, abnormal lateral root primordia lacking functional apical meristems were frequently observed (Figure 1j–m). These phenotypes of the srd2 mutant indicate that SRD2 has an essential function particularly required for the dedifferentiation of hypocotyl explants and de novo formation of apical meristems. [[FIGURE]] The srd2 mutation was mapped within an 83.7-kb region at the 43 cM position of chromosome I (Figure 2a). Sequence analysis of this region of the srd2 genome detected a single base substitution, guanine to adenine, in the 10th exon of At1g28560 (Figure 2a). Several wild-type genomic fragments of this region were introduced into srd2 calli and examined for their ability to complement the srd2 adventitious-root-formation defect. Successful complementation was observed with genomic fragments, G-5a and G-C1, which encompass the full-length sequence of At1g28560 (Figure 2b). Transformation of srd2 with G-C1 resulted in recovery from all defects, including temperature-sensitive dedifferentiation of hypocotyl tissues (data not shown). From these results, we concluded that the SRD2 gene corresponds to At1g28560. [[FIGURE]] Molecular cloning of the SRD2 gene revealed that it encodes a protein similar in sequence to human SNAP50, a 50-kDa subunit of SNAPc (CITATION) (Figure 2c). SNAPc is a multiprotein complex that activates snRNA gene transcription in cell-free systems (CITATION; CITATION). The srd2 mutation caused the glycine at residue 163 of the gene product, which is conserved between SRD2 and SNAP50, to be replaced with arginine. The PSORT program (http://psort.ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp/) predicted nuclear localization of the SRD2 protein. This prediction was supported by analysis of the subcellular localization of a GFP:SRD2 fusion protein transiently expressed in onion epidermal cells (Figure 2d). By analogy with the known function of human SNAP50, it was inferred that SRD2 participates in snRNA transcription. To test this hypothesis, we examined the effects of the srd2 mutation on the expression of a reporter gene driven by the snRNA gene promoter. The reporter construct U2.3::LUC consists of the promoter of the Arabidopsis U2.3 snRNA gene and the structural gene for firefly luciferase (LUC; Figure 3a). The U2.3 promoter contains two cis-acting elements, the USE and the TATA box (Vankan and Filipowicz, 1988, 1989). To evaluate the significance of the USE, mutant U2.3::LUC genes that carry single nucleotide substitutions in the USE were also prepared. These reporter genes were introduced by particle bombardment into wild-type and srd2 hypocotyl-derived calli that had been induced to form adventitious roots and were covered with young root primordia. 35S::SRD2, which was constructed from the 35S promoter of cauliflower mosaic virus and SRD2 cDNA, was co-introduced with the reporter gene into the calli as an effector gene. After bombardment, the calli were cultured for 1 day at 22°C or 28°C, and subjected to the LUC assay (Figure 3b,c). [[FIGURE]] When U2.3::LUC containing the intact USE (wtUSE) was introduced into wild-type calli, LUC activity was higher at 28°C than at 22°C, and the 28°C/22°C ratio was 1.4. In srd2 calli, however, LUC activity was much lower at 28°C and the 28°C/22°C ratio fell to below 0.35. This indicates that the srd2 mutation causes temperature sensitivity in the transcription of the snRNA gene promoter. In the presence of the effector gene, 35S::SRD2 cDNA, the 28°C/22°C ratio of LUC activity increased to over 2.4 in both wild-type and srd2 calli. The 35S::SRD2-dependent recovery of the srd2 defect in U2.3 promoter activity confirms that SRD2 has a role in the activation of snRNA transcription. Single point mutations in the USE of U2.3::LUC dramatically decreased LUC activity, as expected from previous reports (CITATION). In particular, substitution of the third cytosine with adenine (mu2USE) completely abolished LUC activity (data not shown). When guanine was substituted for the eighth thymine of the USE (mu1USE), very low yet still significant LUC activity was detected. In this case, LUC activity was unaffected by the srd2 mutation and insensitive to the co-introduction of 35S::SRD2. Therefore, SRD2 requires an intact USE to exert its function in the transcription of the snRNA gene promoter. One phenotypic characteristic observed for the srd2 mutant was the temperature sensitivity of dedifferentiation of hypocotyl tissues (Figure 1c,d). To define the critical period in which SRD2 function is required for hypocotyl dedifferentiation, we performed temperature-shift experiments with the srd2 mutant. Wild-type and srd2 hypocotyl explants were cultured on CIM at 22°C for various times, and then the temperature was shifted-up to 28°C. After 4 days of culture in total, explants were examined for callus formation (Figure 4). In the wild-type explants, callus formation was observed under all temperature conditions. However, srd2 hypocotyl explants did not form calli when the temperature increased at 12 h of culture. Temperature shifts after 24 h of culture did not inhibit callus formation in srd2 explants. These results localize the window of SRD2 requirement to within the first 12–24 h of hypocotyl dedifferentiation. [[FIGURE]] Changes in SRD2 mRNA levels during the dedifferentiation of wild-type hypocotyl tissues were examined by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) (Figure 5a). When hypocotyl explants were cultured on CIM that contained both 2,4-D and kinetin, SRD2 mRNA was transiently expressed and peaked at 24 h of culture. When cultured on basal medium supplemented with 2,4-D, SRD2 mRNA was also transiently expressed, but expression levels were lower than those in CIM culture. Under these culture conditions, parenchymatous cells of the central cylinder were dedifferentiated and formed calli. Culture in the absence of 2,4-D (BM, phytohormone-free basal medium; and BM+K) did not induce an increase in SRD2 mRNA or callus formation. By culture with 2,4-D (BM+D and CIM), the amount of U2 snRNA was increased in accordance with the expression pattern of SRD2 mRNA (Figure 5b). These results show that SRD2 mRNA expression is stimulated in response to auxin, particularly by the synergistic action of auxin and cytokinin, leading to snRNA accumulation, dedifferentiation, and subsequent callus formation. [[FIGURE]] The presumed function of SRD2 in snRNA transcription was further investigated in relation to its physiological role in hypocotyl dedifferentiation. RNA gel blot analysis revealed that all species of snRNAs tested are increased in wild type in response to CIM culture (Figure 5c). These snRNA species were classified into two groups based on their sensitivity to the srd2 mutation. Although accumulation of snoR32 and snoR39BY was not affected by the srd2 mutation, the accumulation of U1, U3, and U4 snRNAs (U3 is snoRNA in the narrow sense) was strongly inhibited in srd2 explants at 28°C. The srd2 mutation also interfered with the accumulation of U2, U5, and U6 snRNAs (data not shown). Furthermore, 7SL RNA, a small RNA component of the signal recognition particle, was influenced by the srd2 mutation (Figure 5c). Although 7SL RNA is not classified as snRNA, its gene shares structural features with U-snRNA genes in plants (CITATION). That is, they are all independent-type genes that carry two cis-acting elements, the USE and the TATA box, in the promoter region. In contrast, snoR32 and snoR39BY are not encoded by independent-type genes, but occur in polycistronic clusters (CITATION). Therefore, our results show that the srd2 mutation inhibits the dedifferentiation-associated accumulation of U-snRNAs and some other small RNA species encoded by independent-type genes carrying the USE and TATA box. During culture on CIM, total RNA in hypocotyl explants increased after a time lag of approximately 2 days (Figure 5d). Throughout the culture, no significant difference in total RNA content was observed between wild-type and srd2 explants, even at 28°C. U-snRNA expression during hypocotyls dedifferentiation was also investigated with transgenic plants carrying a chimeric gene, U2.3::GUS, in which GUS was expressed under the control of the U2.3 snRNA gene promoter (Figure 6). In the wild-type explants, the GUS activity increased rapidly in the stele cells after CIM culture, and these cells started to proliferate within 2 days. In the srd2 explants cultured at 22°C, the GUS activity increased in the stele cells but it was much weaker than that of the wild type. At 28°C, the srd2 explants showed only negligible activity of GUS. This pattern of the U2.3::GUS expression is in good agreement with the above-described results of RNA gel blot analysis. [[FIGURE]] The srd2 mutant displays different temperature sensitivities in the dedifferentiation of cells from different organs; dedifferentiation is severely defective in hypocotyl explants but not in root explants (CITATION; CITATION). From this remarkable feature, we hypothesized that the level of competence for cell proliferation is lower in hypocotyls than in roots, and that functional SRD2 protein is required for the elevation of cell proliferation competence involved in hypocotyl dedifferentiation (CITATION; CITATION). To examine the possible relationship between cell proliferation competence and snRNA levels, we compared the snRNA contents of hypocotyl and root tissues by midwestern blotting analysis with an anti-2,2,7-trimethylguanosine (TMG) antibody (CITATION), which identified 5′-TMG-capped snRNAs, U1, U2, U4, and U5 (Figure 7a). The data clearly showed that all these snRNAs are more abundant in roots than in hypocotyls. Further information was obtained from analysis of transgenic plants carrying the U2.3::GUS reporter gene. In these transgenic plants, strong GUS expression was detected in the stele tissues of roots but not in hypocotyl tissues (Figure 7b–e), suggesting much higher transcriptional activity of the U2.3 snRNA promoter in roots than in hypocotyls. Overall, these results demonstrate that root tissues have a higher snRNA level than hypocotyl tissues, in parallel with presumed competence for cell proliferation. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! In the present study, the Landsberg erecta (Ler) strain was used as the wild-type Arabidopsis, except in analyses of the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter. The srd2 mutant was derived from this strain (CITATION). The CYCB1;1::GUS reporter line was generated by transformation of the Columbia (Col) strain with pCDG (CITATION). The U2.3::GUS reporter line also originated from the Col strain, into which the U2.3::GUS reporter gene (see below) had been introduced. These reporter lines were crossed with the srd2 mutant, and the resultant F2 or F3 progenies homozygous for the reporter gene were used for experiments. Seedlings were aseptically grown on germination medium A (GMA; CITATION) for tissue culture, at 22°C under continuous light (10–15 μmol m−2 sec−1). GMA is Murashige–Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 1.0% (w/v) sucrose, buffered to pH 5.7 with 0.05% (w/v) MES, and solidified with 1.5% (w/v) agar. Tissue culture was performed as previously described (CITATION). Hypocotyl segments (5 mm long) and root segments (5 mm long, taken 5 mm away from the root apex) were excised from 12-day-old seedlings and cultured on CIM for the induction of callus, or on RIM for the induction of roots. Shoot redifferentiation was induced by culture of explants on SIM following 4 days of pre-culture on CIM. Tissue culture was carried out at 22°C or 28°C under continuous light (15–25 μmol m−2 sec−1), unless otherwise indicated. The culture medium used was B5 medium supplemented with 2.0% (w/v) glucose and phytohormones (0.1 mg l−1 kinetin in BM+K, 0.5 mg l−1 2,4-D in BM+D, 0.5 mg l−1 2,4-D and 0.1 mg l−1 kinetin in CIM, 0.5 mg l−1 indole-3-butyric acid in RIM, 0.15 mg l−1 indole acetic acid and 0.5 mg l−1N6-Δ2-isopentenyladenine in SIM), buffered to pH 5.7 with 0.05% (w/v) MES, and solidified with 0.25% (w/v) gellan gum. Hypocotyl explants were fixed overnight at 4°C in 9:1 (v/v) mixture of ethanol and acetic acid, and then hydrated through a graded series of ethanol. Root explants were fixed overnight at 4°C in 25 mm sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) containing 2% (w/v) formaldehyde and 1% (w/v) glutaraldehyde, and then rinsed with 100 mm sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0). Samples were mounted with a few drops of an 8:1:2 (w/v/v) mixture of chloral hydrate, glycerin, and water. Observations were made under a microscope equipped with Nomarski optics (BX50-DIC; Olympus, Tokyo, Japan). Samples were fixed in 90% (v/v) acetone overnight at −20°C. The fixed samples were rinsed with 100 mm sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), and incubated in X-Gluc solution [0.5 mg ml−1 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide cyclohexylammonium salt, 0.5 mm potassium ferricyanide, 0.5 mm potassium ferrocyanide, 100 mm sodium phosphate (pH 7.4)] overnight at 37°C. After the chlorophyll was bleached with 99.5% (v/v) ethanol, the samples were observed microscopically. The srd2 mutant was crossed with the Col strain and the resultant F3 progeny were used for chromosome mapping of the SRD2 locus. The F3 plants were examined for adventitious root formation at 28°C and for DNA polymorphisms to genotype their parental F2 plants. The chromosomal location of the SRD2 gene was determined on the basis of the linkage of the srd2 mutation to Ler alleles of polymorphism marker loci. Sequences of interest were amplified by PCR from genomic or complementary DNAs. The PCR product was treated with ExoSAP-IT (USB Corporation, Cleveland, OH, USA) and used as a template for cycle sequence reactions with the BigDye kit (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA). Sequencing was performed on an ABI PRISM® 377 DNA sequencer (Applied Biosystems). Sequence data were analyzed with Genetyx-Mac (Software Development Co., Ltd, Tokyo, Japan). Genomic clones used for complementation tests were isolated from our transformation-competent genomic library. In this library, genomic fragments of Ler were inserted into the pNH01 binary vector, which had been constructed from pIG121-Hm (CITATION) by removing the 35S::GUS reporter gene. For the complementation test in tissue culture, callus formation was induced from hypocotyl explants of the srd2 mutant by 8 days of culture on CIM at 22°C. The resultant calli were co-cultured at 22°C for 3 days with Agrobacterium tumefaciens EHA101 into which genomic clones had been introduced by electroporation. The calli were then cultured in liquid CIM supplemented with 20 mg l−1 hygromycin B and 125 mg l−1 claforan for 6 days at 22°C, and subsequently in liquid CIM supplemented with 125 mg l−1 claforan for 8 days at 28°C. Finally, calli were induced to form adventitious roots on RIM containing 125 mg l−1 claforan at 28°C. The cultures after the Agrobacterium infection were performed in the dark. Poly(A)+ RNA was isolated with the Micro-FastTrackTM kit (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) from Ler plants. cDNA synthesis and nested PCR amplification were performed with the SMARTTM RACE cDNA amplification kit (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA) using SRD2-specific primers: 5′RACE-GSP1 (5′-AGCGGATCCACTTGTCCCTGGATGTCAG-3′), 5′RACE-GSP2 (5′-GGTCTTATGTTCCCTGCTCTCTCCCTCG-3′), and 3′RACE-GSP1 (5′-TCTGACATCCAGGGACAAGTGGATCCGC-3′). Amplified DNA fragments were cloned into the pGEM® T-Easy vector (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) and subjected to sequence analysis. The 35S::GFP:SRD2 gene was constructed by inserting SRD2 cDNA into the GFP coding region of 35S::sGFP-TYG gene (CITATION) to produce GFP fused to the N-terminal of SRD2. The −184/+27 region of the U2.3 snRNA gene was amplified by PCR from the Ler genomic DNA and cloned into the pGEM® T-Easy Vector. The U2.3::LUC reporter gene was constructed by joining the SacI–NcoI fragment of this clone to the NcoI–XbaI fragment of the LUC gene of the pGL3-Control vector (Promega) and the NOS terminator sequence of pBI221 (Toyobo, Osaka, Japan). mu1USE and mu2USE were generated with the GeneTailorTM Site-Directed Mutagenesis System (Invitrogen). The 35S::SRD2 effector gene was constructed by inserting the SRD2 cDNA between the 35S promoter and the NOS terminator of pIG121-Hm. These genes were subcloned into pBluescript® KS+ (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA), and used for transient expression analysis. The U2.3::GUS reporter gene was constructed by replacing the 35S promoter of pIG121-Hm with the HindIII–XbaI fragment of the cloned U2.3 promoter. The 35S::GFP gene and the 35S::GFP:SRD2 gene were introduced into onion epidermal cells by bombardment using the PDS-1000/He machine (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA) with tungsten M-17 particles (Bio-Rad). Bombarded samples were observed after 1-day culture on GMA at 22°C. Wild-type and srd2 hypocotyl explants were cultured on CIM at 22°C for 9 days, and then cultured on RIM at 22°C for 1 day. The resultant calli covered with adventitious root primordia were bombarded, using the PDS-1000/He machine (Bio-Rad), with tungsten M-17 particles (Bio-Rad) that had been coated with a mixture of the reporter (U2.3::LUC), effector (35S::SRD2), and internal standard plasmid DNAs in a ratio of 3:2:1. The internal standard plasmid used was pBI221 (Toyobo) carrying 35S::GUS. pBluescript® KS+ was used as the vector control for the effector. After bombardment, the calli were incubated on RIM for 1 day at 22°C or 28°C. Calli were then pulverized in liquid nitrogen with a pestle and homogenized in modified CCLR buffer [100 mm potassium phosphate (pH 7.8), 1 mm EDTA, 7 mm 2-mercaptoethanol, 1% (w/v) Triton X-100, 10% (w/v) glycerol]. The LUC activity of the homogenate was measured with a luciferase assay system (Promega). The GUS assay was performed by the method described by CITATION. Protein content was determined with the BCATM protein assay kit (Pierce, Rockford, IL, USA) and LUC activity was normalized to GUS activity. Total RNA was extracted from cultured explants as described by CITATION, and separated electrophoretically as described by CITATION. After RNAs were blotted onto nylon membranes, the membranes were hybridized with digoxigenin-labeled probes specific for U-snRNAs, snoRNAs, and 7SL RNA. Hybridization and signal detection were performed with the DIG system (Roche Diagnostics, Mannheim, Germany). For comparing snRNA contents between roots and hypocotyls, total RNA was extracted using TRIZOL® Reagent (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's protocol. The RNA samples were separated by gel electrophoresis, and blotted onto nylon membranes. TMG-capped snRNAs were detected with anti-TMG monoclonal antibody (NA02; Oncogene Research Products, Darmstadt, Germany) using the midwestern method of CITATION. SRD2 cDNA was synthesized from DNase I-treated total RNA with the snR/A-Seq9-R primer (5′-CTCATCATGTCTTCTTCTTGCAATGC-3′) using Ready-To-GoTM RT-PCR Beads (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ, USA). Quantitative PCR from this cDNA was performed with primers snR/A-Seq10-F (5′-TCTTGTGAAAGTCGAGCAGCTTGC-3′) and snR/A-Seq5-R (5′-CTTTACCAGTCTCACTGGTCTTGC-3′), using the LightCycler® system (Roche Diagnostics). As an internal standard, 18S rRNA was amplified using the same procedure. Nucleic acids were extracted differentially from cultured explants according to the Schmidt–Tannhauser–Schneider method (CITATION). Total RNA content was determined by quantification of ribose in the RNA fraction as described in CITATION. A simplified version of the floral dip method was used for plant transformation (CITATION).
