!~ABS~! AtMAP65-1 bundles cortical microtubules and we examined how this property is regulated during division in time-lapse studies of Arabidopsis suspension cells expressing GFP-AtMAP65-1. Spindle fluorescence is diffuse during metaphase, restored to the central spindle at anaphase and then compacted at the midline during late anaphase/early telophase. However, mutagenesis of the microtubule-associated protein (MAP) consensus Cdk site to a non-phosphorylatable form allows premature decoration of microtubules traversing the central region of the metaphase spindle without affecting the timing of the subsequent compaction. This suggests that mutagenesis does not affect compaction but does affect a phosphorylation/dephosphorylation switch that normally targets AtMAP65-1 to the central spindle at the metaphase/anaphase transition. GFP-AtMAP65-1 continues to label the midline of the early phragmoplast, suggesting a structural continuity with the central spindle – both structures being composed of anti-parallel microtubules. However, once the cytokinetic apparatus expands into a ring the MAP becomes depleted at the midline. Despite this, cytokinesis is not arrested and membrane and callose are deposited at the cell plate. It is concluded that AtMAP65-1 plays a role in the central spindle at anaphase to early cytokinesis but is not essential at the midline of the phragmoplast at later stages.
!~RES~! First, to establish that the expressed protein was capable of bundling microtubules in this cell system in vivo, we examined transiently infected Arabidopsis suspension cells during interphase. Figure 1 shows the fusion protein has a dramatic effect on the bundling of interphase microtubules. It induces excessive bundling of both the cortical (Figure 1a) and the nucleus-associated radial microtubule arrays (Figure 1b), drawing the normally evenly distributed microtubules into only a few groups. Figure 1(c) shows that this enhanced bundling occurs in cells containing longitudinal as well as transverse arrays. By contrast, untransformed control cells stained with anti-tubulin antibodies did not contain bundled microtubules (not shown) nor did cells transformed with another fusion protein, AtEB1-GFP (Figure 1d,e); Figure 1(d) illustrates a cortical array and Figure 1(e) illustrates a radial array in which microtubules emerge from the nuclear surface. [[FIGURE]] By tracking cells undergoing cell division at 3-min time intervals it was possible to demonstrate that GFP-AtMAP65-1 was both spatially and temporally regulated during mitosis and cytokinesis (see Movie 1). Regulation was first observed at prometaphase/metaphase in that spindle labelling was diminished as shown in the immunofluorescence study of CITATION and Figure S2. In contrast to the clearly labelled cortical and PPB microtubules (Figure 2a), it became difficult at prometaphase/metaphase to discern specific microtubule fluorescence against the dim outline of the spindle (Figure 2b). The diminution was most clearly seen by comparing fluorescence levels within a time-lapse series, not by single images taken from different cells at different microscope settings. Fluorescence intensity measurements of three such cells that could be tracked from preprophase through to cytokinesis confirmed that while the PPB was 5.18 times brighter than the general cytoplasm, the fluorescence in the region of the prophase/metaphase spindle was only 2.23 times brighter than the cytoplasmic level. [[FIGURE]] Clear fibrillar fluorescence patterns then reappeared in early anaphase in the central spindle region (Figure 2c). Then, during late anaphase, the GFP-AtMAP65-1 became concentrated in a zone in the midline amongst the phragmoplast initials (Figure 2d). The midline labelling was, however, transient as it then redistributed amongst the microtubules of the two phragmoplast halves, leaving a zone depleted of labelling in the midline as the phragmoplast matured (Figure 2e,f). This compaction of label at the late anaphase/telophase transition is better illustrated in Figure 3. [[FIGURE]] We tested whether these cell-cycle-specific staining patterns represented changes in protein level or cellular distribution of GFP-AtMAP65-1 by measuring the fluorescence intensities of the nuclear region (encompassing both the spindle and its surrounding cytoplasm) of cells as they underwent spindle morphogenesis. However, despite the fact that the spindle-associated fluorescence was 5.19 times higher than the cytoplasmic level at early anaphase and 8.45 times higher at late anaphase, the total level of fluorescence hardly varied. From metaphase to early anaphase the GFP signal only varied by 1:1.13 and from early anaphase to late anaphase/telophase by 1:0.94. This suggests that the changed labelling pattern is due to a redistribution rather than a general increase in the amount of fluorescent protein. In view of the time-lapse data showing that the labelling of the metaphase spindle by GFP-AtMAP65-1 was diminished compared to the rest of mitosis we examined the possibility that the MAP was modified at this stage. CITATION have examined the role of Cdk in regulating the MAP65 homologue, PRC1, during division and CITATION examined this further by mutagenizing the consensus Cdk sites. We therefore mutagenized the corresponding consensus Cdk phosphorylation site of AtMAP65-1 between amino acid residues 503 and 506: [S/T]-P-X-[K/R] (CITATION). We mutated serine 503 to non-phosphorylatable alanine and transfected Arabidopsis cells with the GFP-AtMAP65-1A mutant. The mutated AtMAP65-1 was still able to induce heavy bundling of cortical microtubules and these cells could be shown to complete division (Movie 2). Overall, the mutated GFP-AtMAP65-1A showed a similar pattern of decoration to the control in that the spindle labelling was less intense than on the preprophase band but then concentrated again on the midzone of the nascent phragmoplast at the late anaphase to telophase transition (Figure 4). The timings were also similar in both cases. By tracking three cells at 3-min time intervals we found that it took an average of 18.7 min for control cells to progress from prometaphase (defined as the first frame after the disappearance of the PPB) to a stage in late anaphase (the first frame with intense central spindle staining) and it took 22 min for the mutant. The intense, discrete labelling in the central spindle region then redistributed within 6.3 min in the control versus 5 min in the mutant background. [[FIGURE]] However, there was a qualitative difference in the staining pattern of spindles. Spindles labelled by mutant GFP-AtMAP65-1A produced a fibrous staining pattern in the central region of the spindle throughout spindle morphogenesis in contrast to control cells in which unmutagenized fusion protein only appeared to accumulate at the central spindle from anaphase onwards (compare Figures 2b and 4b). This difference is particularly evident in the detailed sequence of spindle morphogenesis illustrated in Figure 5 (also see Movie 2). Mutant GFP-AtMAP65-1A labelled fibres of the central spindle region within 3 min (one frame) of PPB breakdown whereas it took an average of 16 min in the sampled wild-type cells. [[FIGURE]] This early targeting of mutant GFP-AtMAP65-1A to the central spindle was also investigated by taking fluorescence profiles along the spindle axis. Figure 6 compares the profiles of GFP-AtMAP65-1 versus mutant GFP-AtMAP65-1A spindles 6 min after the disappearance of the PPB. As can be seen, GFP-AtMAP65-1 yielded relatively flat traces across the spindle axis consistent with the staining pattern being diffuse and non-polarized at this stage. By contrast, the fluorescence in GFP-MAP65-1A mutant cells was more focused to the centre of the spindle – consistent with the presence of fibrous staining patterns in this area. [[FIGURE]] Antibodies to AtMAP65-1 have shown that the protein is concentrated in the midzone of the phragmoplast (CITATION) but in the present study overexpression changed this phenotype. In transformed cells, GFP-AtMAP65-1 was not concentrated in the midline but appeared to label the entire phragmoplast (Figure 7). Notably, the fusion protein induced extensive microtubule bundling during cytokinesis (Figure 7a–d): normally the phragmoplast microtubules are difficult to resolve but overexpression caused them to be drawn into countable bundles (Figure 7c). This bundling was apparent at all stages of cytokinesis, from late anaphase (when the phragmoplast initials first appear out of the spindle midzone: Figure 7a) to the later stage of phragmoplast expansion depicted in Figure 7(c,d) [see also Figure S3(d)–(g)]. Overexpression of GFP-AtMAP65-1 also promoted the bundling of the aster-like microtubules that interact with the cell cortex (Figure 7d). [[FIGURE]] Movie 3 and Figure S3 show that despite the bundling of the phragmoplast microtubules and the poor/non-labelling of the midline, the cytokinetic apparatus was still capable of centrifugal outgrowth and transition to interphase. These data suggest that it may not be essential for AtMAP65-1 to be compacted at the midline of the phragmoplast for the cytokinetic apparatus to expand. To check whether cells plates were actually deposited under such conditions, transfected cells were stained with the fluorescent membrane dye, FM4-64, which has been shown to label membrane of forming cell plates in plant suspension cells (CITATION). Figure 8(a) shows the GFP-AtMAP65-1 signal of a cell undergoing a polarized form of cytokinesis where the phragmoplast has already contacted the mother wall at the left. The leading edge of the phragmoplast to the right is marked by abnormal, curled microtubule bundles and in Figure 8(b) the FM4-64 staining of the same cell shows that membranous material is contributing to the formation of the cell plate that has contacted the left-hand wall of the mother cell. To check that the membranous disk contained cell plate polysaccharide, transformed cells were stained with the callose dye, aniline blue. Figure 8 confirms that forming (Figure 8c,d) and completed cell plates (Figure 8e,f) contain disk-shaped deposits of aniline blue-positive material. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana‘Col-0’ cell suspension (CITATION) was grown on a shaker, in ATN medium, at 21 °C in the dark and sub-cultured weekly (see CITATION). The Arabidopsis AtMAP65-1 gene (CITATION) (AT5g55230) was cloned by RT-PCR into the plant expression vector, pBinGWC, using the Gateway system (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) as described (CITATION). The primers used were: forward – AAAAAGCAGGCTTCATGGCAGTTACAGATACTG; reverse – AGAAAGCTGGGTCTCATGGTGAAGCTGGAAC. The construct of GFP-AtMAP65-1 was confirmed by sequencing. Arabidopsis cells were transformed by Agrobacterium (GV3101) harbouring the GFP-AtMAP65-1 expression construct. Log phase bacteria were incubated 1 h in the solution containing 10 μm acetosyringone (Sigma, St Louis, MO, USA) and 100 mm magnesium chloride. These were then added to a 1-day-old Arabidopsis cell suspension and expression of GFP-AtMAP65-1 was detected after 2 days. The cdc2 phosphorylation null mutant, AtMAP65-1A, was obtained using the GeneTailor site-directed mutagenesis system (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Serine 503 was substituted by alanine by PCR using the AtMAP65-1 entry clone as a template. The primers were: cdcF1 – GCC TTT AGC ACC AGG CCA GCT CCT GCA AGA C; cdcR1 – TGG CCT GGT GCT AAA GGC AGA TTC TTG CTC. After fusing with GFP, the GFP-AtMAP65-1A Cdk mutant was used to transform Arabidopsis cells as above. Cells were fixed for 1 h in PME (50 mm PIPES, 5 mm magnesium sulphate and 5 mm EGTA) containing 4% (w/v) formaldehyde as described (CITATION). Rabbit antibodies against the conserved peptide CEEESWLEDYNR were made by Biogenes GmbH (Berlin, Germany), secondary antibody used was Alexa 568 conjugated anti-rabbit IgG (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA). Anti-tubulin YOL 1/34 was purchased from Abcam (Cambridge, UK), secondary antibody used was CY3 conjugated anti-rat IgG (Amersham, Little Chalfont, UK). SDS-PAGE and western blotting were carried out according to CITATION. Antibodies [anti-GFP (Clontech, Basingstoke, UK) and the anti-CEEE peptide antibody] were used at 1:1000 for immunoblotting. The primary antibody was detected by enhanced chemiluminescence (Pierce, Rockford, IL, USA) using horseradish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibodies diluted 1:10 000 (DAKO, Ely, Denmark). Transformed Arabidopsis cells were imaged using either a Leica SP2 (Milton Keynes, UK), or Bio-Rad MRC 1024 (Hemel Hempstead, UK) confocal microscopes. GFP was excited using 488 nm light from either an argon ion or argon krypton laser and imaged using emission filters 500–550 nm (Leica SP2) or 515LP (Bio-Rad MRC 1024). Aniline blue staining was excited using 405 nm light from a violet laser diode and imaged using 420–490 nm filter (Leica SP2). FM4-64 was excited using 568 nm light from an argon krypton laser and imaged using a 585LP filter (Bio-Rad MRC1024). CY3 and Alexa 568 was excited using 543 nm light from a green helium neon laser and imaged using 560–620 nm filter (Leica SP2). Images from z sections were ‘max’ projected using either the Leica software or ImageJ programme (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). Time-lapse imaging of living cells were carried out in a modified chamber, constructed using a gas-permeable membrane (bioFOLIE, VivaScience, Hannover, Germany). Time-lapse images were acquired at 3–5-min intervals and the images processed using ImageJ. The intensity of fluorescence within and outside microtubule arrays (in five different locations, of fixed box size) was quantified using the ‘measure’ tool of ImageJ. Mean fluorescence intensities were expressed relative to the general cytoplasmic level. The total amount of fluorescence within the nuclear region of metaphase and anaphase cells was measured using the ‘freehand selection’ and measure tools of ImageJ. Aniline blue (Acros organics, c/o Fisher Scientific UK, Manchester, UK) was used to stain callose by adding it to living cells at 0.1 mM in culture medium for 1 h at room temperature. FM4-64 (Molecular Probes) was used to stain membranes by adding at 1 μm to living cells for 3 h at room temperature.
