!~ABS~! We show that the thylakoid membrane phosphoprotein TMP14 is a novel subunit of plant photosystem I (PSI). Blue native/SDS–PAGE and sucrose gradient fractionation demonstrated the association of the protein exclusively with PSI. We designate the protein PSI-P. The presence of PSI-P subunit in Arabidopsis mutants lacking other PSI subunits was analyzed and suggested a location in the proximity of PSI-L, -H and -O subunits. The PSI-P protein was not differentially phosphorylated in state 1 and state 2.
!~RES~! In order to study the localization of TMP14, Arabidopsis thylakoid membranes were fractionated into stroma lamellae and grana. The samples were subjected to BN–PAGE to separate the protein complexes followed by separation of the protein subunits of the complexes in a second dimension by SDS–PAGE. Immunoblotting revealed that TMP14 in the stroma lamellae co-migrated exclusively with the PSI complex (CITATION ). In grana the TMP14 protein was not detected (data not shown). To independently confirm the association of TMP14 with PSI, Arabidopsis thylakoids were solubilized with β-DM and applied on a sucrose gradient to fractionate PSI, PSII and LHCII. Immunoblotting using TMP14 antibody showed a clear enrichment of the PSI fraction with TMP14 (CITATION A). To see whether TMP14 was associated with other thylakoid membrane complexes the entire sucrose gradient was harvested in 25 fractions and analyzed by SDS–PAGE. One gel was stained while another was subjected to immunoblotting. The result showed that the presence of TMP14 was restricted to fractions containing PSI (CITATIONB). Antibody against PSI-G (a PSI subunit known to be located at the periphery of the PSI complex) was used as a control to localize the PSI fraction. This antibody clearly shows the concentration of PSI in fractions 1–8. A small amount of PSI-G was found in fractions of the gradient where free LHCII is found. The latter has been observed earlier and is considered to be due to partial release of some peripheral PSI subunits by the detergent treatment [Hansson, A. and Jensen, P.E., unpublished results]. To further investigate the correlation between TMP14 and PSI, we examined the presence of TMP14 in thylakoids of the barley viridis-zb 63 mutant CITATION. This mutant possesses only 2% of PSI core proteins, while other thylakoid protein complexes show no or little change. Thus, if TMP14 is a PSI subunit, we would expect less of the protein in the mutant than in the WT. Indeed, in contrast to the WT, we could not detect any TMP14 in the preparation of the mutant thylakoids (CITATION ). Taken together these data strongly suggest that TMP14 is a part of the PSI complex of higher plants. When Arabidopsis thylakoids or PSI were analyzed with anti-TMP14 antibody and anti-PSI-L antibody we observed that the two proteins co-migrated (CITATION A). This raised the concern whether the anti-TMP14 antibody might cross-react with PSI-L even though the TMP14 peptide used for antibody production and PSI-L do not have significant sequence similarity. Indeed, we were able to separate these two proteins by immunoblotting of tobacco thylakoids, thereby providing unambiguous evidence that the TMP14 antibody does not cross-react with PSI-L (CITATION). An additional confirmation that the anti-TMP14 antibody recognizes only TMP14 was provided by isoelectrofocusing. TMP14 and PSI-L were successfully separated based on their different isoelectric points and recognized by corresponding antibodies (data not shown). The identity of the TMP14 spot was also confirmed by electrospray ionization MS (data not shown). To study whether the deficiency of other PSI subunits affects the presence of TMP14, thylakoids from Arabidopsis mutants lacking PSI-D, -F, -G, -H, -L, -N and -O were analyzed with anti-TMP14 antibody (CITATION ). The amount of TMP14 was clearly dependant on the presence of several PSI proteins. The quantity of TMP14 was reduced in the cosuppressed PSI-H (csH) and increased in the PSI-O-deficient lines, while the protein was virtually undetectable in the absence of PSI-L. In addition, lack of PSI-F and PSI-G negatively affected the presence of TMP14 in the thylakoids. In the PSI-D and -N lines the amount of TMP14 remained generally at the WT levels. Isoelectrofocusing revealed two TMP14 spots slightly different in isoelectric points (CITATION ). The more acidic spot is likely to represent the phosphorylated form of TMP14 and it appears to comprise about 25% of the total TMP14. The fact that TMP14 is a phosphoprotein CITATION suggests that phosphorylation may be physiologically controlled and have an important function. To investigate whether more of TMP14 becomes phosphorylated in state 2 along with LHCII, immunoblotting of samples from state 1 and state 2 with phospho-threonine antibody was performed (CITATION ). As expected, the phosphorylation level of LHCII was considerably higher in state 2 than in state 1. In contrast, both TMP14 and PSI-D showed no change in phosphorylation level upon state transitions.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heyhn ecotype Columbia and Nicotiana tabacum cv. Petit Havanna wild-type (WT) plants were grown on compost in a controlled environment Arabidopsis chamber (Percival AR-60L, Boone, IA, USA) at a photosynthetic flux of 100–120μmolm−2 s−1 with an 8h photoperiod and 70% relative humidity. Seedlings of WT barley (Hordeum vulgare cv. Svalöfs Bonus) and the viridis-zb 63 mutant were grown in vermiculite for 6 days at 21°C in constant white light at a photon flux of 75μmolm−2 s−1. The Arabidopsis mutants and transformants deficient in individual PSI subunits have been described before (see CITATION for a review). Thylakoids were prepared from 6- to 8-week-old Arabidopsis leaves as described earlier CITATION except that 10mM NaF was added to all buffers to inhibit phosphatase activity. Thylakoids were stored at −80°C. Total chlorophyll (Chl) was determined in 80% acetone CITATION. PSI complexes were isolated by solubilization of the thylakoid membranes (1mgChl/ml) for 10min at 0°C with 1% dodecyl-β-maltoside (β-DM; Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA) in the presence of NaF, followed by sucrose gradient ultracentrifugation as previously described CITATION. For analysis of phosphorylation of PSI and LHCII in state 1 and state 2 the plants were illuminated with orange (state 2) or red (state 1) light and samples were prepared using digitonin and sucrose gradient centrifugation as previously described CITATION. For blue native (BN)–PAGE Arabidopsis thylakoid-membrane subfractions were isolated using digitonin as previously described CITATION. TMP14 antibody was raised by immunizing a rabbit with a synthetic peptide (VKTAQEAWEKVDDK), conjugated to keyhole limpet hemocyanin (Innovagen, Lund, Sweden). Phospho-threonine polyclonal antibody was from Cell Signaling (Beverly, MA, USA). Thylakoid and PSI proteins were separated using 12% Criterion SDS-gels (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). Immunoblotting was carried out by transferring separated proteins to a PVDF membrane (Bio-Rad) using a semi-dry electroblotter. The membrane was incubated with polyclonal antibodies as indicated in the figure legends. Signal was detected with a chemiluminescent detection system (SuperSignal, Pierce, IL, USA) after incubation with horse radish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibody (DAKO, Glostrup, Denmark) and recorded using a cooled CCD camera. BN–PAGE was performed essentially as described CITATION. The samples solubilized with β-DM were electrophoresed in the first dimension on 5–12.5% acrylamide gradient gels (Hoefer Mighty Small, Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala, Sweden). After electrophoresis the lanes were cut out, incubated in sample buffer CITATION containing 5% β-mercaptoethanol, and run in the second dimension by SDS–PAGE on 15% gels with 6M urea. Stroma lamellae (150μg protein) were solubilized in 320μl rehydration buffer (2M thiourea, 8M urea, 4% CHAPS, 20mM Tris–base, 0.5% IPG buffer, pH 3–10, 100mM DTT, and a trace of bromphenol blue) for 3h at room temperature and centrifuged at 13000g for 20min to remove insoluble material. ReadyStrip™ IPG strips, pH 3–10 (Bio-Rad) were rehydrated for 12h in the sample suspension at 20°C. Isoelectrofocusing in the first dimension using the Protean IEF apparatus (Bio-Rad) and SDS–PAGE on 14% gels in the second dimension were performed according to manufacturer’s instructions. After electrophoresis, the proteins were visualized by immunoblotting or by silver staining. Protein spots were digested in-gel with trypsin (Sequencing Grade Modified, Promega, Madison, WI, USA) according to Shevchenko et al. CITATION. Peptides were desalted on a C18 reversed-phase ZipTip (Millipore, Billerica, MA, USA) and eluted with 50% acetonitrile, 1% formic acid. Electrospray ionization tandem MS was performed using API Q-STAR Pulsar (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA) equipped with a nano-electrospray ion source (MDS Protana, Odense, Denmark) with instrument settings recommended by Applied Biosystems.
