!~ABS~! CONSTANS (CO) is an important floral regulator in the photoperiod pathway, integrating the circadian clock and light signal into a control for flowering time. It is known that CO promotes flowering in Arabidopsis under long-day conditions. CONSTANS-LIKE 9 (COL9) is a member of the CONSTANS-LIKE gene family, encoding a nuclear protein. The expression of COL9 is regulated by the circadian clock in the photoperiod pathway and is detected in various organs. Unexpectedly, overexpression of COL9 in transgenic Arabidopsis resulted in delayed flowering, while co-suppression lines and a transferred DNA (T-DNA) knockout line showed earlier flowering under long-day conditions. Overexpression of COL9 did not enhance the late-flowering phenotype in a co mutant background. Double overexpressors produced by overexpression of CO in COL9 transgenic lines showed an early flowering phenotype similar to single CO overexpressors. The pattern of oscillation of a number of circadian-associated genes remained unchanged in the COL9 transgenic lines. Compared with wild-type plants, the abundance of CO and FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) mRNA was reduced in the COL9 overexpression lines. Our results indicate that COL9 is involved in regulation of flowering time by repressing the expression of CO, concomitantly reducing the expression of FT and delaying floral transition.
!~RES~! The temporal expression pattern of COL9 was analyzed using samples collected from Arabidopsis plants growing under LD and SD conditions. Unlike CO, in which the transcript was rare and undetectable by Northern analysis (CITATION), the level of COL9 transcript was abundant and could easily be detected by Northern hybridization analysis (Figure 1a). A robust cycling of COL9 transcript during the day was observed when the COL9 cDNA was used to probe the total RNA extracted from Arabidopsis leaves (Figure 1a,b). Under LD, the abundance of COL9 mRNA was low at 4 and 8 h after dawn, and increased at 12 h with a peak of expression at night (Figure 1a,b). Under SD, the abundance of COL9 transcript was low during the daytime and increased around dusk, with a peak of expression at the beginning of the dark period (Figure 1a,b). The lowest level of COL9 transcript was found 4 h after dawn under both LD and SD. The peak level of COL9 transcript was higher in plants growing in SD than plants growing in LD (Figure 1b). [[FIGURE]] When plants were transferred from SD to continuous light (LL), the COL9 transcript showed a diurnal rhythm with reduced amplitude (Figure 1a,b). The results indicate that expression of COL9 is under the control of circadian clock. We further analyzed the upstream genomic sequence of the COL9 gene to look for evidence of regulation by the circadian clock in the promoter region. The evening element motif (AAATATCT) has been shown to play an important role in conferring circadian rhythmicity in plants (CITATION). Sequence analysis revealed the presence of three evening element motifs in the 1.3 kb promoter region of the COL9 genomic sequences. The corresponding promoter region of COL9 was fused in frame with the β-glucuronidase (GUS) coding sequence and the resulting chimeric gene construct (COL9:GUS) was used to generate transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Northern hybridization revealed that under the control of the COL9 promoter, the GUS gene transcript showed a similar diurnal rhythm to COL9 transcript (Figure 1c). The pattern of temporal and spatial expression of COL9 was examined at 12 h after dawn under LD. The presence of COL9 transcript was detectable in 2-day-old germinating seeds (Figure 1d). The abundance of mRNA increased with seedling development (Figure 1d). At later developmental stages, COL9 was present in all sampled tissues: rosette leaf, cauline leaf, stem, flower bud, silique and root (Figure 1d). The presence of the CCT domain in the carboxy-terminus of COL9 indicates that the protein is probably localized in the nucleus. To confirm that COL9 is a nuclear protein, a translational fusion of green fluorescent protein (sGFP) and COL9 (35S:sGFP–COL9) was constructed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. A transient expression assay in onion epidermal cells was used to assess the cellular location of the fusion protein. In the bombarded cells expressing the fusion protein, fluorescence of GFP was detected predominantly in the nuclei (Figure 2a,b); whereas in cells expressing free sGFP, fluorescence of GFP was detectable in both the nuclei and the cytoplasm (Figure 2c). Therefore, COL9 protein is localized in the nucleus, consistent with its proposed role in the transcriptional regulation of gene expression. [[FIGURE]] To understand the functions of COL9, transgenic plants carrying sense COL9 cDNA under the control of CaMV35S promoter were generated and analyzed under LD and SD. Twenty-two kanamycin-resistant transgenic plants were sampled for Northern hybridization analysis. Nine plants showed high levels of exogenous COL9 transcript due to overexpression of the transgene (Figure 3a); 13 plants displayed low levels of expression for both the exogenous and the endogenous transcripts (Figure 3a), apparently caused by co-suppression of the introduced COL9 with the endogenous COL9. [[FIGURE]] To test the effect of upregulation or downregulation of COL9 on flowering time, three highly overexpressed homozygous lines, OX-M10, OX-L18 and OX-L19, and three strongly co-suppressed lines, E4, E22 and E24, were used for the determination of flowering time. The bolting date was observed and the total leaf number (TLN), including rosette leaves and cauline leaves on the primary stem, was recorded as a measure of flowering time. Under LD conditions the appearance of flower buds in lines with COL9 overexpression was 5–7 days later than in wild-type plants, whereas the co-suppression lines had visible flower buds 1–2 days earlier than wild-type plants (Figure 3b). The overexpression lines produced significantly more leaves than wild-type plants, and the co-suppression lines had fewer leaves than wild-type (Table 1). When the transgenic plants were grown under SD, both overexpression lines and co-suppression lines flowered at almost the same time and produced a similar number of leaves to the wild-type plants (Figure 4). Therefore, upregulation of COL9 delayed flowering and downregulation of COL9 promoted flowering under LD; the change in COL9 expression level had no significant impact on flowering time under SD. These results indicate that COL9 functions as a negative regulator of flowering in the photoperiod pathway. Data are mean ± SE. aCOL9 overexpression transgenic lines. bCOL9 co-suppression transgenic lines. cCOL9 T-DNA insertion line (SALK137167). [[FIGURE]] To further confirm the effects of downregulation of COL9 on flowering time, a transferred DNA (T-DNA) insertion line SALK137167 was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC) at the Ohio State University, USA. The location of the T-DNA insertion was confirmed in the first exon of COL9 by PCR and sequencing; Northern analysis of the homozygote line (col9-t) showed the disruption of COL9 transcript (data not shown). Like the COL9 co-suppression lines, col9-t flowered consistently earlier than wild-type plants under LD conditions (Figure 3c, Table 1). To determine if COL9 is involved in other pathways controlling flowering time we tested the effects of gibberellin (GA3) spray and vernalization treatment on the flowering time of COL9 transgenic lines. Similar to wild-type plants, the flowering time of the transgenic lines was also accelerated by both vernalization and treatment with gibberellin (Figure 4). Under LD conditions the bolting time of the overexpression lines (OX-M10, OX-L18) was still about 5 days later on average, and the total number of leaves was still significantly more than in wild-type plants after vernalization and gibberellin treatments; the co-suppression line (E4) again flowered earlier than wild-type plants (Figure 4). Under SD conditions the overexpression lines and the downregulated lines did not show a significant difference in flowering time when compared with wild-type plants (Figure 4). These results showed that both the application of GA3 and vernalization did not complement the disruption of flowering time in COL9 transgenic lines. The above analysis of the transgenic lines showed that the influence of COL9 on flowering time is through the photoperiod pathway. Since CO is the last output in the photoperiod pathway, and co mutants show late flowering in LD, we tested whether the delay of flowering in COL9 overexpression lines was caused by the repression of CO expression. Indeed, a reduction in abundance of CO mRNA was consistently found in COL9 overexpression lines, and an increase in CO mRNA was found in the downregulated lines (Figure 5a,b). For a detailed analysis we compared the oscillation of CO expression at different time points under LL and LD in the transgenic lines and wild-type plants. Under LL, although CO expression waveforms were largely similar to the wild-type, the level of CO transcript in the overexpression line OX-L18 was reduced at all time points, while the level of expression of CO in the T-DNA insertion line col9-t was enhanced (Figure 6a,c). Under LD conditions the expression of CO in the COL9 overexpression lines was also reduced at different time points (Figure S1a,b). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Because FT is an important floral integrator and a direct target of CO (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we analyzed the expression of FT in the transgenic lines. Under LL, the pattern of oscillation of FT transcript showed two peaks at 16 and 24 h (Figure 6b,d). The peak levels of FT transcript were much lower in the OX-L18 overexpression line, whereas the levels of expression of FT were higher in the col9-t T-DNA insertion line (Figure 6b,d). Under LD, the abundance of FT mRNA showed a similar pattern of oscillation, with a peak of expression at 16 h in both wild-type and transgenic lines; again, the peak levels of FT mRNA were much lower in the overexpression lines than in the wild-type (Figure S1a,c). The expression of the floral integrator SOC1, the other target of CO, was also analyzed at 12 h after dawn. Like FT, the amount of SOC1 transcript was reduced in COL9 overexpression lines (Figure 7a,b). [[FIGURE]] The circadian clock is entrained by inputs to synchronize with alternation of light. To investigate whether COL9 affects the function of the circadian clock we analyzed the rhythm of expression of the components of the circadian clock CCA1, LHY1 and TOC1 and a clock output gene CCR2 (COLD-CIRCADIAN RHYTHM-RNA-BINDING 2) under LL conditions. Similar to wild-type plants, OX-M10, OX-L18 and col9-t showed peaks of CCA1 and LHY1 transcript at 25 and 49 h, TOC1 at about 15 and 39 h and CCR2 at about 9 and 33 h (Figure S2a–d). The period length, phase and amplitude of the circadian clock genes showed no obvious difference between transgenic and wild-type plants (Figure S2a–d). In an effort to determine the potential upstream regulators of COL9, we further examined the abundance of COL9 transcript at 12 h after dawn in several known photoperiod pathway mutants co-1, cry2-1, elf3 (early flowering 3), ft-1 and T-DNA insertion lines (fkf-t and gi-t) of FKF1 (FLAVIN-BINDING, KELCH REPEAT, F-BOX) and GI (GIGANTEA). Northern hybridization analysis revealed a reduction in the level of COL9 transcript in the GI T-DNA insertion line (gi-t), while no significant alteration in mRNA abundance was found in the other lines tested (Figure 8a). Further analysis of the oscillation pattern confirmed that the levels of COL9 transcript were consistently reduced at different time points in gi-t (Figure 8b). Taken together, the results indicate that COL9 functions downstream of the circadian clock and is affected by GI. [[FIGURE]] The 35S:COL9 gene construct was introduced into a co-1 and ft-1 mutant background. Transgenic lines with various levels of expression of the transgene were used to investigate the effect of overexpression of COL9 on flowering time (Figure 9a,b). In the co-1 background, COL9 overexpression lines (co-T1, co-T3, co-T5 and co-T8) showed a similar flowering time to the co-1 mutant (Figure 9c), even for the co-T1 line which had a high level of exogenous expression of COL9 (Figure 9a). Thus, overexpression of COL9 did not further delay flowering in co-1 mutants. [[FIGURE]] In the ft-1 background, two transgenic lines, ft-T1 and ft-T2, which overexpressed COL9 at relatively low levels, flowered at a similar time to the ft-1 mutant (Figure 9b,d). Lines ft-T7 and ft-T10 had high levels of expression of COL9; they flowered later than the ft-1 mutant (Figure 9b,d). These results indicated that high levels of COL9 overexpression could enhance the late flowering phenotype of ft-1, but, even so, the transgenic line did not flower significantly later than the co-1 mutant. After 35S:CO was introduced into the OX-M10 COL9 overexpression line, the double overexpressors of CO and COL9 showed an early flowering phenotype similar to single CO overexpressors (Figure S3). These results indicate that misexpression of CO is epistatic to COL9.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia was used in the experiments. COL9 (col9-t, SALK137167), GI (gi-t, SALK092757) and FKF (fkf-t, SALK059480) T-DNA insertion lines and co-1 (CS3122), ft-1 (CS56) and cry-2 (CS3732) mutants were obtained from ARBC. Gene constructs and the production of COL9 transgenic plants are described below. T3 homozygous COL9 overexpression lines M10 and L18, the co-suppression line E4 and COL9 T-DNA insertion homozygote line col9-t were analyzed in detail. Seeds were surface sterilized with bleach and sown on MS (CITATION) agar medium containing 2% sucrose. After being stored in darkness at 4°C for 2 days, the seeds were germinated for 10 days and seedlings were transferred to soil and grown in a growth chamber (23°C day/19°C night). For analysis of circadian rhythm, three photoperiod conditions were used in similar growth chambers: short day (SD), 8 h light and 16 h darkness; long day (LD), 16 h light and 8 h darkness; continuous long day (LL), normal short day or long day followed by continuous light. A combination of fluorescent tubes and incandescent bulbs was used. Light intensity was about 220–240 μmol m−2 sec−1. For vernalization treatment, seeds were sown on MS medium and stored at 6°C for 4 weeks, and then the seedlings were planted into soil in growth chambers under SD or LD conditions. For gibberellin treatment, 10–12-day-old seedlings were transplanted into pots and sprayed with 100 μm gibberellins twice a week in LD and SD growth rooms. For analysis of the circadian rhythm of COL9, leaves from 4-week-old wild-type plants were collected in 4-h intervals for 24 or 48 h in SD, LD and LL conditions. Each sample was collected from two plants. For analysis of COL9 expression, the samples were collected 12 h after the start of light exposure, when COL9 mRNA abundance is at a high. Total RNA was isolated using TRI reagent (Molecular Research Center, Inc., Cincinnati, OH, USA, no. TR118-L) . Twelve micrograms of RNA was loaded for each sample and RNA gel blotting was carried out according to standard protocols (CITATION). The coding region of COL9 was used as a probe for the analysis of COL9 expression. A 483 bp cDNA fragment of CCA1, a 406 bp cDNA fragment of CCR1 and a 660 bp cDNA fragment of LHY1 were used as probes for analysis of the circadian rhythm of these genes. Northern hybridizations were performed using the [32P]dCTP (2′-deoxycytidine 5′-triphosphate)-labeled probes following the QuikHyb® hybridization protocols (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA). For the synthesis of first strand cDNA, 2 μg total RNA from each sample was reverse-transcribed by using random primer in 20 μl reaction volume. The cDNA was diluted into 50 μl with double-distilled H2O, and 2 μl aliquots were analyzed in 30 μl reaction volume for gene expression with different PCR parameters. Specific primers for different flowering time genes were designed by dnastar to avoid detecting homologous genes. Primer sequences were: CO, forward TCACCACCAAAGCGAGAAAA, reverse TGGCTTGCAGGGTCAGGTTG; FLC, forward TTCTCCAAACGTCGCAACGGTCT, reverse GATTTGTCCAGCAGGTGACATCTC; FT, forward TAGTAAGCAGAGTTGTTGGAGACG, reverse GGGAAGGCCGAGATTGTAGAT; SOC1, forward CTTTCTTTCTTCTTCTCCCTCCAG, reverse TTGCTCGAATACATTTGACACTTT; TOC1, forward GGGGTGCGGCGGAAAAGTT, reverse CTGCCGGTGACCAAGAATGATGAA; UBQ10, forward CTCACCGGAAAGACCATCACT, reverse CACGCAGACGCAACACCA. PCR amplification products were analyzed by electrophoresis in 1% agarose/ethidium bromide gels. UBQ10 was used as the standard for normalization. The COL9 (At3g07650) open reading frame (ORF) was cloned by RT-PCR and ligated in sense orientation under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter at XhoI and XbaI restriction sites in the vector pRTL2. Primer sequences used for RT-PCR were: forward, TTCTCGAGATGGGTTACATGTGT; reverse, TGTCTAGATCAATAACTTCTGGTT. The 35S:COL9 fragment was further cloned into the binary vector pCAMBIA 2300 at the HindIII restriction site. A 1235 bp genomic sequence from upstream of the COL9 start codon was cloned by PCR as the COL9 promoter. Primer sequences used were: forward, CTCTAGAAAAATTAACACTTGCTCA; reverse, ACCATGGCCTTCTTGTGGACTACTACTAT. The promoter was subcloned into the binary vector pCAMBIA 3301 at XbaI and NcoI restriction sites to replace the CaMV 35S promoter in front of the GUS reporter gene. A pCAMBIA3300 vector carrying a HindIII–EcoRI fragment from the CaMV35S-sGFP(S65T)-nos plasmid (CITATION) was digested by NotI and BsrGI, and the COL9 ORF was inserted into the vector before the stop codon of sGFP and in frame with sGFP. The resulting 35S:sGFP–COL9 construct was delivered into onion epidermal cells by particle bombardment. DNA of the binary vectors was transferred into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58 by the freeze–thaw method (CITATION). Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were generated following the floral dip method (CITATION). Flowering time was measured as total leaf number (TLN) as described by CITATION. The final number of rosette leaves and cauline leaves in the main inflorescence (not including leaves on axillary inflorescences) was counted on the day when the first petals became visible.
