!~ABS~! Environmental stimuli, including light, pathogens, hormones, and abiotic stresses, elicit changes in the cytosolic Ca2+ signatures of plant cells. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms by which plants sense and transmit the specific cytoplasmic Ca2+ signal into the nucleus, where gene regulation occurs to respond appropriately to the stress. In this study, we have identified two novel Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) proteins specifically associated with Calcineurin B-Like-Interacting Protein Kinase1 (CIPK1), a member of Ser/Thr protein kinases that interact with the calcineurin B-like Ca2+-binding proteins. These two proteins contain a very similar C-terminal region (180 amino acids in length, 81% similarity), which is required and sufficient for both interaction with CIPK1 and translocation to the nucleus. Interestingly, the conserved C-terminal region was also found in many proteins from various eukaryotic organisms, including humans. However, none of them have been characterized so far. Taken together, these findings suggest that the two proteins containing the evolutionarily conserved C-terminal region (ECT1 and ECT2) may play a critical role in relaying the cytosolic Ca2+ signals to the nucleus, thereby regulating gene expression.
!~RES~! To identify in vivo substrates and/or other interacting proteins of CIPK1, we utilized a yeast screening system that had been used to isolate an in vivo substrate of the SNF1 protein kinase (CITATION). The complete coding region of CIPK1 cDNA was cloned in frame into a GAL4 DNA binding domain vector pGBT9.BS (pGBT.CIPK1), and it was used as a bait to screen the Arabidopsis ACT cDNA expression library. Sequence analysis of the 54 positive clones obtained by this screening revealed that they derived from several different genes, including CBL1 and CBL3. Because CBL1 and CBL3 were previously known to associate with CIPK1 (CITATION), isolation of these genes indicated that the yeast two-hybrid screening was successfully carried out. We chose two of the novel interactor genes for further analysis and screened Arabidopsis cDNA libraries (CD4-7 and CD4-15) in order to isolate the full-length cDNAs. The two genes were designated ECT1 and ECT2, respectively, because they both have an evolutionarily conserved region in their C-terminal region. The ECT1 full-length cDNA contained a 1,287-bp open reading frame, which encodes a polypeptide of 428 amino acid residues with an estimated molecular mass of 48 kD. The ECT2 full-length cDNA consisted of a 1,959-bp open reading frame coding for 652 amino acid residues with an estimated molecular mass of 71 kD. Comparison of deduced amino acid sequences between ECT1 and ECT2 revealed a conserved region (81% similarity) of 180 amino acid residues in the C terminus, although the rest are quite dissimilar (Fig. 1A). Through the GenBank search, we identified nine additional Arabidopsis polypeptides containing a similar C-terminal end (Fig. 1B). Interestingly, proteins with this feature are also present in other organisms, such as rice (Oryza sativa), human (Homo sapiens), mouse (Mus musculus), frog (Xenopus laevis), zebrafish (Danio rerio), and fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster; Fig. 1C). Unfortunately, however, none of the genes have been characterized so far in terms of biochemical or biological properties. [[FIGURE]] Because none of the ECT1 and ECT2 clones isolated by CIPK1 in the yeast two-hybrid screening were full-length cDNAs, we first tested whether the complete form of ECT1 and ECT2 can still maintain the interaction with CIPK1. As shown in Figure 2A, yeast cells that carry both pGBT.CIPK1 and pGAD.ECT1 grew well on the selection medium (SC-HLT), indicating expression of the HIS3 reporter gene. The yeast cells also expressed the other reporter gene LacZ, which encodes β-galactosidase, as determined by the filter-lift assay. In contrast, yeast cells cotransformed with the empty vectors, with pGBT.CIPK1 and pGAD, or with pGBT and pGAD.ECT1, failed to express these two reporter genes. Similar results were obtained in the case of ECT2 (data not shown). These results indicate that the full-length ECT1 and ECT2 proteins respectively interact with CIPK1 in the yeast two-hybrid system. To determine whether the interaction is vector independent, we also created the pGBT.ECT1 and pGAD.CIPK1 plasmids and performed the vector-swapping analysis. It should be noted that yeast cells harboring pGBT.ECT1 and the empty pGAD vector, not to mention yeast cells carrying pGBT.ECT1 and pGAD.CIPK1, expressed the HIS3 and LacZ genes (Fig. 2B). This indicates that the ECT1 protein, when fused to the DNA binding domain of the GAL4 transcription factor, is able to autonomously activate expression of the reporter genes. Such autonomous activation activity of ECT1 provides a possibility that they may function as a transcription coactivator because they do not appear to have a DNA-binding motif. Deletion analysis demonstrated that the ECT1 N-terminal region lacking the conserved C-terminal end is required and sufficient for the autoactivation activity (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Meanwhile, we decided to investigate whether the ECT1 and ECT2 proteins can also interact with other members of the CIPK family, which consists of 25 genes in the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION). We also investigated whether CIPK1 interacts with other ECT family members. As shown in Figure 2C, both ECT1 and ECT2 interacted only with CIPK1, but not with other CIPK members tested so far, which include CIPK2, CIPK3, CIPK5, CIPK6, CIPK9, and CIPK11 (CITATION; CITATION). In addition, CIPK1 did not interact with other ECT family members such as ECT3, ECT6, ECT8, ECT9, and ECT10. These results suggest that CIPK1 specifically interacts with the ECT1 and ECT2 proteins. Because both ECT1 and ECT2 have a similar C-terminal region, we presumed that the conserved amino acids might be involved in the interaction with CIPK1. To verify this, we created several deletion constructs by cloning ECT1 and ECT2 fragments into the pGAD.GH vector (Fig. 3). In addition, we also used the CIPK1 deletion constructs, pGBT.K292 and pGBT.C169 (CITATION), to determine the CIPK1 domain necessary for the interaction. Combinations of these pGAD and pGBT constructs were then used to cotransform the yeast strain Y190. Interactions were determined by monitoring growth of the transformants on the selection medium and by measuring β-galactosidase activity. As shown in Figure 3, the full-length ECT1 and ECT2 proteins interacted with CIPK1, whereas the N-terminal region of ECT1 and ECT2 (ECT1N and ECT2N) did not interact. These results suggest that the conserved C-terminal region of the ECT proteins is indispensable for the interaction with CIPK1. Furthermore, the ECT1C and ECT2C mutants lacking the N-terminal region did interact with CIPK1 almost at the same intensity as their full-length forms did, revealing that the conserved C-terminal region of the ECT proteins is sufficient for the interaction. [[FIGURE]] The kinase domain of CIPK1 (K292) alone interacted with the full-length ECT1 and ECT2 proteins as well as the N-terminal deletion mutants ECT1C and ECT2C. However, it did not interact with the C-terminal deletion mutants ECT1N and ECT2N. Taken together, these results indicated that the CIPK1 kinase domain is required and sufficient for the interaction with the ECT proteins. It is noteworthy that neither the full-length nor the N-terminal deleted forms of the ECT proteins interacted with the nonkinase domain of CIPK1 (C169), which contains the NAF domain involved in interaction with the CBL family (CITATION). Yeast two-hybrid assays demonstrated that CIPK1 interacts with the ECT1 and ECT2 proteins. To corroborate the interactions, we chose ECT1 for further analysis because it interacted with CIPK1 at higher strength than ECT2. Using the glutathione S-transferase (GST) gene fusion system, we purified the recombinant proteins of ECT1, ECT1N, and ECT1C produced in Escherichia coli and removed the GST protein via thrombin digestion (Fig. 4). The CIPK1, K292, and C169 proteins were expressed and purified as previously (CITATION). The cleaved CIPK1 and ECT1 proteins were used to produce polyclonal antibodies from rabbit. For the pull-down assays, we mixed GST-CIPK1 (bait) with the cleaved forms of ECT1, ECT1N, or ECT1C (preys) and checked whether GST beads pulled down the preys with the immunoblot analyses. The anti-ECT1 antibody purified by the ECT1 antigen was used as a probe. As shown in Figure 5A, the CIPK1 and ECT1 proteins did interact in vitro. Moreover, CIPK1 interacted with the C-terminal region of ECT1 (ECT1C) but not with the N-terminal region (ECT1N). The GST protein alone used as a negative control did not pull down any of the preys. These interaction patterns were further assured by the results of the additional pull-down assays using the switched bait and prey proteins (Fig. 5B). As expected, the immunoblot probed by the anti-CIPK1 antibody displayed the CIPK1 protein band only in the lanes of GST-ECT1 and GST-ECT1C baits but not in the lanes of GST control and GST-ECT1N. These in vitro protein-protein interaction patterns between CIPK1 and ECT1 are consistent with the results in the yeast two-hybrid assays. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To further confirm the interaction between ECT1 and CIPK1, we attempted to purify CIPK1 from an Arabidopsis total protein extract using ECT1 as an affinity reagent. In our previous report, we have shown that CIPK1 is strongly expressed in the roots (CITATION). Therefore, we prepared and used the total protein extracted from the Arabidopsis roots for the affinity purification experiment. As shown in Figure 6, GST-ECT1 purified a 49-kD protein, which was recognized by the anti-CIPK1 antibody. In contrast, GST control failed to retrieve the 49-kD protein, the expected size of CIPK1. These results strongly suggest a possibility of the CIPK1-ECT1 interaction in Arabidopsis plant cells. [[FIGURE]] The Arabidopsis genome contains 11 ECT1-like genes as mentioned before. Although polypeptides encoded by these genes share a very similar C-terminal region, their N-terminal region is quite different from each other in terms of sizes and sequences. This finding suggested that a single copy of the ECT1 gene is present in the Arabidopsis genome, which was in fact confirmed by genomic southern-blot analysis using the partial cDNA of the ECT1 gene (ECT1N) as a probe (data not shown). To gain insight into possible function of ECT1, we initially attempted to investigate expression patterns of the ECT1 gene by northern-blot analyses using total RNAs extracted from the various organs of 5-week-old Arabidopsis wild-type plants (ecotype Columbia-0), including roots, stems, leaves, and flowers. However, the ECT1 mRNA levels were too low to be detected in most organs; the flowers alone displayed a very faint band of the ECT1 transcript only after long exposure (data not shown). Therefore, we used a more sensitive technique, real-time RT-PCR analysis, and determined the relative levels of the ECT1 transcripts in such organs. ECT1 primers were designed to span exon-intron boundaries, thereby producing a 233-bp PCR fragment only from the cDNA template, but not from the genomic DNA. The same strategy was applied to the primers of Actin2, a housekeeping gene used as an internal standard. As depicted in Figure 7A, flowers expressed the highest level of the ECT1 transcripts, consistent with the RNA gel-blot result. Other organs, such as the roots, stems, and leaves, also expressed the ECT1 transcripts, although the levels were significantly lower. Furthermore, we have found that ECT1 mRNA accumulation was not affected by stress conditions, including cold, drought, wounding, and high salt (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To further analyze the expression patterns of the ECT1 gene, we created transgenic Arabidopsis plants carrying a chimeric construct, which consists of the putative promoter region of ECT1 fused to the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene in pBI101. As shown in Figure 7B, histochemical GUS assays of the transgenic plants indicated that the ECT1 promoter weakly drove the GUS expression in the shoot and root apices. Interestingly, GUS activity was also detected around the primary root regions where lateral roots were formed, suggesting that ECT1 may be involved in the initiation and/or development of the lateral root. In addition, stamens and carpels in the flowers as well as trichomes in the leaves displayed relatively strong GUS activities, whereas no GUS expression was detected in the mature siliques, germinating seeds, and young seedlings (2–4 d after germination). To investigate the subcellular localization of ECT1, we created the ECT1-GFP fusion construct under the control of the 35S promoter of cauliflower mosaic virus (pMD.ECT1) and introduced into the onion epidermal cells by the particle bombardment procedure. As displayed in Figure 8A, the transient expression analysis showed that the ECT1-green fluorescent protein (GFP) protein was predominantly localized in the nucleus. The GFP control, however, exhibited similar intensities of fluorescence in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus. These results clearly indicate that the ECT1 protein possesses information to direct the nuclear targeting. [[FIGURE]] Using Arabidopsis transgenic plants expressing the ECT1-GFP fusion protein, we further confirmed nuclear targeting of the ECT1 protein. The Arabidopsis transgenic plant roots (elongation zone) showed high GFP activities in the regions where nuclei were localized (Fig. 8B). In addition, protoplasts prepared from the stably transformed Arabidopsis leaves showed that ECT1-GFP was localized significantly in the nucleus. In contrast, fluorescence was uniformly detected throughout the protoplast prepared from the Arabidopsis plants expressing the GFP protein alone (Fig. 8C). To dissect the ECT1 region involved in the nuclear localization, we generated two ECT1 deletion constructs pMD.ECT1N (the N-terminal 228 amino acids) and pMD.ECT1C (the conserved C-terminal region), which express ECT1N-GFP and ECT1C-GFP, respectively, in plant cells. As depicted in Figure 9, transient expression assays showed that ECT1N-GFP was localized in the cytoplasm, whereas ECT1C-GFP was almost exclusively confined in the nucleus. These observations indicate that the ECT1 C-terminal region containing the evolutionarily conserved domain is required and sufficient for the nuclear localization. Interestingly, ECT1C-GFP lacking the N-terminal 228 amino acids was more predominantly localized in the nucleus than was the full-length ECT1-GFP. Therefore, it suggests that the N-terminal region may play an inhibitory role in nuclear targeting of ECT1. Although ECT1 does not appear to carry the known nuclear localization signal, a short stretch of amino acids that mediates the transport of nuclear proteins into the nucleus in ECT1, it is noteworthy that the C-terminal 180 amino acids of ECT1 have a higher proportion of positively charged residues. It is well known that positively charged amino acids are abundant in nuclear localization signals. The ECT1 C-terminal region has 21 Lys, 4 Arg, and 4 His residues. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether calcium regulates targeting of the ECT1 protein in vivo, we transiently coexpressed ECT1-GFP along with the CBL1 calcium sensor and the interacting partner CIPK1 in the onion epidermal cells, which were subsequently incubated in the elevated or depleted calcium conditions. As shown in Figure 10, addition of Ca2+ in the presence of calcium ionophore A23187 facilitated nuclear localization of ECT1-GFP. However, such predominant nuclear localization of ECT1-GFP was not observed in the onion cells incubated with calcium-chelating reagent EGTA. These results suggest a possibility that calcium plays a role in regulating the nuclear localization of ECT1 through the CBL1 calcium sensor. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) λ-ACT cDNA expression library (CD4-22) constructed by CITATION was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Ohio State University, Columbus, OH). The two-hybrid library screening was carried out essentially according to CITATION. Briefly, the plasmid library was obtained from the phage library by in vivo excision and used to transform Y190 strain that expresses a bait protein (CIPK1). Transformants were plated onto the synthetic medium that lacks Leu, Trp, and His (SC-Leu-Trp-His). To inhibit background growth of yeast cells, 25 mm 3-amino-1,2,4-aminotriazole was also supplemented to the medium. Colonies that appeared within 5 d of incubation were selected for further analyses. For yeast two-hybrid interaction assays, genes of interest were first cloned into either the activation domain (pGAD.GH) or the DNA-binding domain (pGBT9.BS) vectors. Then, the two plasmids were introduced into yeast strain Y190 carrying two reporter genes by the lithium acetate method (CITATION; CITATION). Yeast cells carrying both plasmids were selected on the synthetic medium lacking Leu and Trp (SC-Leu-Trp). The yeast cells were streaked on the SC-Leu-Trp-His plate to determine the expression of HIS3 nutritional reporter. The β-galactosidase expression of the His+ colonies was analyzed by filter-lift assays as described below. Transformants were streaked onto the selective medium (SC-Leu-Trp) and grown for 1 d at 30°C. Filter-lift assays for blue color development were performed overnight at 30°C as described by CITATION. For quantitative assays, transformants were grown at 30°C to mid-log phase (OD600 = 0.5–1.0) in the SC-Leu-Trp liquid medium. Activity of β-galactosidase was measured at OD574 using chlorophenol red-β-d-galactopyranoside as the substrate according to CITATION and expressed in units. The equation below was used to calculate β-galactosidase activity:where V is volume of culture in mL, T is reaction time in min, and OD600 is yeast cell density. In order to isolate the full-length cDNAs encoding ECT1 and ECT2, respectively, the 32P-labeled probes were prepared from CIPK1-interacting ECT clones, which encode only the C-terminal regions of the two ECTs. Arabidopsis cDNA libraries (CD4-7 and CD4-15) obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center were screened essentially as described by CITATION. Plasmids containing the inserts were obtained from the positive plaques, and their DNA sequences were analyzed with software from DNASTAR. GST fusion proteins were purified essentially according to the protocols described in the GST gene fusion system (Amersham Biosciences). Briefly, Escherichia coli BL21 cells carrying a GST fusion construct were grown at 37°C overnight and were subcultured until the OD600 reached 0.5 to approximately 0.6. Isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside was added to a final concentration of 0.3 mm in order to induce the GST fusion protein. Following 3 h induction at 20°C, cells were harvested by centrifugation, resuspended in ice-cold lysis buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 100 mm NaCl, 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride [PMSF], 5 mm DTT, 5 mm EDTA, and 1 mm EGTA), and lysed by sonication. Triton X-100 was added to a final concentration of 1%. After 1 h incubation on ice, the cell lysate was centrifuged at 10,000g for 10 min at 4°C. Glutathione-Sepharose 4B beads were added to the supernatant and incubated with gentle shaking for 45 min at 4°C. The beads were washed six times with ice-cold washing buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, and 100 mm NaCl). The GST fusion protein was eluted with 10 mm reduced glutathione in washing buffer from the beads. The protein of interest was expressed in E. coli and purified with glutathione-Sepharose 4B beads. After thrombin cleavage to remove the GST protein, the purified protein was separated by SDS-PAGE and visualized with Coomassie staining. The protein band of interest was carved out, washed extensively with deionized water, and used to immunize a rabbit (New Zealand white/male). For immunization, the rabbit was injected four times with 0.5 mg of the protein at an interval of 2 weeks. Following incubation at 37°C to inactivate complements, the rabbit whole blood collected from the celiac artery and heart was centrifuged to produce the blood serum. The polyclonal antibodies were purified from the blood antiserum by affinity chromatography using the antigen coupled to cyanogen bromide-activated Sepharose 4B (Amersham Biosciences). Pull-down assay and western-blot analysis were performed as described previously (CITATION). Briefly, GST fusion proteins attached to the glutathione-Sepharose 4B beads were incubated at 4°C with prey proteins lacking the GST protein in the binding buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 100 mm NaCl, 0.05% Tween 20, 1 mm EDTA, and 1 mm PMSF). Pull-down samples were resolved by SDS-PAGE and transferred onto polyvinylidene fluoride membranes (Immobilon-P; Millipore) to detect via immunoblot analysis the prey proteins, which were precipitated by the GST fusion bait proteins. Total protein preparation and affinity purification were performed as described previously (CITATION). Briefly, total proteins were prepared from 4-week-old Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) roots with extraction buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 100 mm NaCl, 0.05% Tween 20, 1 mm EDTA, 1 mm PMSF, 5 mg/mL leupeptin, and 5 mg/mL aprotinin). The GST-ECT1 protein immobilized on the glutathione-Sepharose 4B beads was mixed with the total protein extract. After 4 h of incubation, the beads were washed six times with the binding buffer described above. The affinity-purified products were subjected to immunoblot analysis to detect the Arabidopsis CIPK1 protein. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR was performed on the Rotor-Gene Real-Time Centrifugal DNA Amplification System (Corbett Research) using the QuantiTect SYBR Green RT-PCR kit (Qiagen) as described by the manufacturer. Briefly, total RNAs from plant tissues were isolated using the TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen), and 1 μg of total RNA served as a template in a 10-μL reaction containing 0.25 μm each primer and 2× QuantiTect SYBR Green RT-PCR Master Mix and QuantiTect RT Mix. After reverse transcription at 50°C for 20 min, samples were denatured at 95°C for 15 min and then subject to 35 PCR cycles consisting of 95°C denaturation for 15 s, 55°C annealing for 20 s, and 72°C extension for 20 s. Detection of amplification products was performed at the end of the extension period at 72°C and analyzed using Rotor-Gene software. Specificity of the amplified transcripts was verified by monitoring melting curves generated after each run. ECT1 primers were designed to produce a 233-bp PCR fragment from the cDNA template: K8 forward, 5′-TAGATCTCCAGCGCTACAATGGGGA-3′; K8 reverse, 5′-CAAATTGCCCACTTGCATTCACCGA-3′. Part of the housekeeping gene Actin2 mRNA, 134 bp in length, was always coamplified by a pair of primers (forward primer, 5′-GAGATCACCGCTCTTGCACCTAGCA-3′; reverse primer, 5′-CTCACTCTTTGAAATCCACATCTGT-3′) and used as an internal standard. The ECT1 promoter-GUS construct (pBI.ECT1) was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and introduced into Arabidopsis plants by the floral dip method (CITATION). Transformants were selected as described previously (CITATION). Histochemical GUS assays of the transgenic plants were performed according to the protocol described by CITATION. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the ECT1-GFP chimeric protein were generated as described above. Mesophyll protoplasts were prepared from the T2 Arabidopsis leaves described by CITATION and were imaged under the Olympus BX51 fluorescence microscope with XF116-2, XF06, and XF111-2 filter sets (Omega). To carry out transient expression assays, the pMD.ECT1, pMD.ECT1N, and pMD.ECT1C plasmids were respectively delivered into the onion epidermal cells according to the procedures described by CITATION with minor modifications. Particle bombardments were performed using the Biolistic PDS-1000/He system (Bio-Rad) with 1,100 pounds inch−2 rupture discs under a vacuum of 26 inches of Hg. After bombardment, tissues were maintained in parafilm-sealed half-strength Murashige and Skoog plates at 23°C for 24 h and analyzed by fluorescence microscopy. Nuclei were stained with 1 μg/mL of DAPI (Sigma-Aldrich) in phosphate-buffered saline buffer for 5 min at room temperature and examined by a fluorescence microscope at an excitation wavelength of 350 nm. The pGBT.CIPK1, pGBT.K292, and pGAD.KC169 plasmids were constructed as described previously (CITATION). To create pGAD.ECT1, the coding region of the ECT1 cDNA was PCR amplified with a pair of primers K8-5 and K8-4. The PCR product was digested with EcoRI/SalI and ligated into pGAD.GH. The plasmid pGAD.ECT1N, which lacks 200 amino acid residues in the C-terminal region, was constructed by cloning the PCR product amplified with the K8-5 and K8-9 primers into the EcoRI/SalI sites of the pGAD.GH plasmid. Primers K8-10 and K8-4 were used to PCR amplify the N-terminal region of ECT1. The amplified PCR product was digested with EcoRI and SalI and cloned into pGAD.GH to produce pGAD.ECT1C. To generate the pGAD.ECT2 plasmid, primers K6-1 and K6-2 were used to amplify the coding region of the ECT2 cDNA. The resulting PCR product was then cloned into the BamHI/SalI sites of the pGAD.GH vector. To make the pGAD.ECT2N construct, PCR product generated by a pair of primers, K6-1 and K6-3, was digested with BamHI and SalI restriction enzymes and then ligated with pGAD.GH. The pGAD.ECT2C plasmid was constructed by cloning the PCR fragment, which was amplified with K6-4 and K6-3 primers, into the EcoRI/SalI sites of pGAD.GH. To create constructs pGEX.ECT1, pGEX.ECT1N, and pGEX.ECT1C, the plasmids pGAD.ECT1, pGAD.ECT1N, and pGAD.ECT1C, respectively, were digested with EcoRI and SalI restriction enzymes, and then each resulting insert was introduced into the pGEX-4T-3 vector. A transcriptional fusion of the ECT1 promoter to a GUS reporter gene was made as follows: We performed PCR on the Arabidopsis (Columbia-0) genomic DNA with K8-PF2 and K8-PR primers in order to amplify the 5′ flanking DNA sequences between −1816 and +1 relative to the translation start codon (ATG) of the ECT1 gene. After digestion with SalI and BamHI, the 1.8-kb PCR fragment was cloned into the pBI101.1 binary vector (CLONTECH), thereby creating the pBI.ECT1 plasmid. For creation of the ECT1-GFP chimeric construct (pMD.ECT1), primers K8-12 and K8-41 were used to PCR amplify the ECT1 coding region without a stop codon. Following digestion with XbaI/BamHI, the PCR product was cloned into the pMD1 binary vector that contains a GFP reporter gene (CITATION). To make the plasmids pMD.ECT1N and pMD.ECT1C, PCR fragments were produced from the ECT1 cDNA with two pairs of forward and reverse primers (K8-12 and K8-31; K8-25 and K8-41, respectively). Following XbaI/BamHI digestion, each DNA fragment was cloned into pMD1. All the PCRs were carried out using Pfu DNA polymerase (Stratagene) to enhance fidelity. To create CIPK1 overexpression construct (MAS-CIPK1), the full-length CIPK1 cDNA (CITATION) was digested with NotI and SacI and cloned into pATC940 vector (CITATION). All the constructs above were verified by DNA sequencing. Primers used in this study are listed below, with restriction enzyme sites underlined. Three additional bases, which were chosen randomly by considering their effect on melting temperature and on dimer and stem-loop formation, were included at the 5′ end of the primers for efficient digestion by restriction enzymes: K8-4, 5′-ATCGTCGACTCAACTCAAGTTAATTGTTT-3′; K8-5, 5′-TATGAATTCTATGGCTGGAGCCGCTTCTT-3′; K8-9, 5′-AATGTCGACTACTGCTGAAACGTCTTGCT-3′; K8-10, 5′-AATGAATTCAGATCTCCAGCGCTACAATG-3′; K8-12, 5′-ATATCTAGAATGGCTGGAGCCGCTTCTTC-3′; K8-25, 5′-ATATCTAGACATGGATCTCCAGCGCTACAA-3′; K8-31, 5′-TATGGATCCTACTGCTGAAACGTCTTGCT-3′; K8-41, 5′-TTAGGATCCACTCAAGTTAATTGTTTCCC-3′; K8-PF2, 5′-TAAGTCGACCGTATGTCACAAAATCCATT-3′; K8-PR, 5′-TATGGATCCTATCGAGAGAAGGCAAAAAA-3′; K6-1, 5′-TCTGGATCCCATGGCTACCGTTGCTCCTC-3′; K6-2, 5′-ATAGTCGACACACCATCCTCTTAGTTAGC-3′; K6-3, 5′-TTAGTCGACGGAACAACACATGTGTTATC-3′; K6-4, 5′-AATGAATTCGAGGAATCAAAACTACCGCT-3′. Upon request, all novel materials described in this publication will be made available in a timely manner for noncommercial research purposes. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers AY894117 and AY894118.
