!~ABS~! Seven genes seem to encode for putative ClC chloride channels (AtClC-a to AtClC-g) in Arabidopsis thaliana. Their function and localization is still largely unknown. AtClC-f shares considerable sequence similarity with putative ClC channel proteins from Synechocystis, considered to represent the precursor of chloroplasts. We show by biochemical and mass spectrometry analysis that ClC-f is located in the outer envelope membrane of spinach chloroplasts. Consistent with the plastidial localization of ClC-f, p-chlorophenoxy-acetic acid (CPA) reduces photosynthetic activity and the protein is expressed in etioplasts and chloroplasts but not in root tissue. These findings may represent a step toward the molecular identification of ion channel activities in chloroplast membranes.
!~RES~! Proteins with transport function of chloroplast membranes may derive from the endosymbiontic cyanobacterium, as indeed is the case for some constituents of the protein import machinery CITATION. The results shown in CITATION indicate the cyanobacterial origin of AtClC-f and AtClC-e (see also Aramemnon). If these two channel proteins had a predicted chloroplast transit peptide, they would be good candidates as plastidial channels. TargetP algorithm (www.cbs.dtu.dk/services) predicts plastidial location with a probability of 0.413 for AtClC-e and 0.19 for AtClC-f. However, some heterospecific homologs of both AtClC-e and AtClC-f display predicted chloroplast location with high probability (CITATION ). Western blotting was performed on isolated Arabidopsis chloroplasts using an antibody against rat ClC-3 (aa 592–661) (GI: 1705905). This antibody may recognize a priori both AtClC-e and AtClC-f, given the presence of highly conserved aminoacid stretches in the epitope region. The similarity of this region with other AtClC proteins, except for AtClC-d, is less pronounced. CITATION A shows that anti-ClC3 antibody did recognize in Arabidopsis chloroplasts a single band of 75.0kDa apparent molecular weight (MW) (note: the predicted MW of AtClC-e is 75.5kDa). In order to define the exact location of ClC in chloroplast membranes, both outer and inner envelopes and thylakoid membranes had to be purified. A method for such purification in Arabidopsis has not been reported up to now, therefore spinach was used. The antibody in isolated Percoll-purified chloroplasts from spinach clearly recognized a band of 82kDa apparent MW (close to the predicted 83.5kDa MW of AtClC-f) while the 75kDa band was not revealed (CITATIONA and B). However, when assaying purified outer envelope vesciles (OE), the 75kDa band, which was recognized also by a specific anti-AtClC-e antibody (not shown), became evident (CITATIONB), suggesting either the presence of small amount of ClC-e in spinach chloroplasts, or a decreased affinity of the antibody for spinach ClC-e with respect to AtClC-e. Concerning the 82kDa band, presumed to correspond to ClC-f, a 2.9-fold enrichment in OE with respect to chloroplasts was observed (based on densitometry, n =5) (CITATIONB). The OE location of the 82kDa band was further examined by proteolytic treatment of isolated, intact chloroplasts with different quantities of Proteinase K. The intensity of the 82kDa band greatly diminished by increasing the quantity of the protease (CITATIONC) – as expected, if the protein was accessible from the cytosolic side of OE. OEP21, another OE protein is also accessible to proteinase K, while P45 of the inner membrane as well as the ferredoxin NAD(P)+ oxidoreductase (FNR), which interacts on the stromal side with the IE protein Tic62, are not digested by proteinase K (CITATIONC). This latter data, as well as the fact that control and protease treated isolated chloroplasts displayed basically identical oxygen evolution in the presence of ferricyanide (Hill reaction) (12.12±0.44 and 12.81±0.78μmol O2/(mg Chlh), respectively; P =0.46, n =5), indicate the intactness of the inner membrane. The purity of our membrane preparations was tested using specific antibodies against proteins of OE, IE and thylakoid membrane (THY). The outer membrane protein OEP21 CITATION, a 45kDa inner envelope protein CITATION and the photosystem II component D1 protein in the thylakoid were used as marker proteins. OE and THY were pure membranes, whereas IE was slightly contaminated by OE (CITATION A). Densitometric analysis indicated that the 82kDa band in IE (CITATIONB) was due mainly to contamination by OE and/or to the presence of contact sites. The vesicle preparations were assayed also using antibodies against marker proteins of various membraneous compartments. Antibodies against plasmamembrane H+-ATP-ase CITATION, BiP of ER CITATION, mitochondrial cytochrome c and calreticulin were used (CITATIONB). The latter antibody, when used for immunogold labeling, located on both ER and Golgi membranes CITATION. These data indicate that the presence of ClC-f in the OE is not due to extra-plastidial contamination. Further proof of the identification of the 82kDa band as ClC-f was obtained by 2D electrophoresis followed by mass spectrometry (MS) analysis. CITATION shows the Western blot of an exemplary 2D-PAGE of OE vesicles, developed with anti-ClC3. The antibody clearly recognized two series of spots (81kDa and 5.3 pI (isoelectric point); 76kDa and 6.8 pI). The 76kDa protein, which was recognized also by anti-AtClC-e antibody, was not present in sufficient quantity for MS analysis. Instead, the results of MS/MS analysis of the 81kDa spot is shown in CITATION A. Exactly the spot which was recognized by the used antibody was cut out from the 2D-SDS–PAGE obtained in parallel and subjected to tryptic digestion and analyzed. MS analysis identified three long peptides with aminoacid sequences identical to those of AtClC-f (CITATIONB). The aminoacid sequences of heterospecific homologs of AtClC-f are very similar, especially in the regions identified by MS analysis, but are significantly different from the sequence of other putative ClC channel proteins (CITATIONB). OEP75 (identified sequences: GYNMGEIGAAR; the same peptide with oxidized methionine and SAEVSTEWSIVPGR) and IEP110 (KQAEVLLADGQLTK) were also detected by MS (not shown) in OE and IE vesicles loaded on two separate 2D-PAGE, respectively. Chloride ion fluxes have been proposed to regulate photosynthesis CITATION. Oxygen evolution was measured in the presence of p-chlorophenoxy-acetic acid (CPA), an inhibitor of ClC-0 and ClC-1, which was mapped in the ClC-1 channel to a binding pocket that partially overlaps with the central chloride ion binding site revealed in the crystal structure of EriC CITATION. Given that CPA interacts with highly conserved residues which are present also in plant ClC channels and especially with residues that are important for gating it is probable that CPA blocks plant ClCs as well, although direct proof is missing. Other chloride channel inhibitors were excluded because of interaction with porins or photosystem II proteins CITATION. Oxygen evolution was measured in intact chloroplasts and thylakoids and expressed as μmol O2/(mg Chlh). The absolute values measured under control conditions varied slightly among preparations obtained from different spinach samples, therefore oxygen evolution values in the presence of CPA were normalized accordingly, with respect to control (100%). Chloroplasts were preincubated with 100μM CPA for 10min before measurement, as CPA is only slowly membrane-permeable CITATION. Oxygen evolution was significantly diminished by CPA, by 33±6% (n =13, P <0.05). CPA diminished oxygen evolution only when added to intact chloroplasts, but not when added to thylakoids (5±10% inhibition, n =13, P >0.05), indicating lack of direct interaction with photosystem II (CITATION A). Intact chloroplasts, isolated from the same spinach leaves soaked with 100μM CPA or left with water without CPA for 3h, showed significant difference in oxygen evolution (30.35±2.7 for control and 22.45±0.5μmol O2/(mg Chlh) for CPA-treated; P =0.023, n =4), indicating the ability of CPA to cross plant membranes. An effect of CPA on photosynthetic efficiency was found also in intact spinach plants, grown first in the absence of CPA, and then watered with either a solution containing 100μM CPA for 3 days or with water (control). Chlorophyll fluorescence measurements performed on intact leaves showed a significant difference in the ratio of variable fluorescence and maximal fluorescence (F v/F m) between control and CPA-treated plants (0.761±0.006 and 0.6621±0.017, respectively; P =0.0007, n =6). In accordance with the above observations, which suggest a role for ClC channels in the regulation of photosynthesis, the 82kDa ClC-f protein was found to be expressed in stem and leaf but not in root extract (CITATIONB). Furthermore, leaf tissue extract from etiolated plants, which contain plastids committed to become chloroplasts, displayed ClC-f, and this expression was maintained upon shift to light (CITATIONC).
!~MM~! Protein concentrations were determined by BCA kit. Proteins were separated in 7.5% SDS–PAGE or 7.5–15% acrylamide gradient gel (with 6M urea). Percoll-purified chloroplasts from Arabidopsis thaliana or spinach leaves were prepared according to CITATION. Anti-ClC3- antibody (Sigma) was used at a 1:300 dilution for 3h. Differing lots always recognized the 82kDa band in spinach, whereas cross-reaction with other bands varied among lots. Anti-OEP21 and anti-ferredoxin NADP+ oxidoreductase, anti-P45, anti-H+-ATP-ase of the plasmamembrane, anti-BiP, anti-calreticulin and anti-AtClC-e antibodies were kind gifts of Profs. J. Soll, N. Rolland, I. DeMichelis, A. Vitale, B. Baldan and H. Barbier-Brygoo, and were used at 1:500, 1:1000, 1:5000, 1:5000, 1:10000, 1:2000 and 1:250 dilutions, respectively. Horse-radish peroxidase coupled anti-rabbit IgG was used as a secondary antibody and blots were developed using the ECL system. Vesicles were prepared following the procedures in CITATION. Briefly, Percoll-purified chloroplasts were incubated in 0.7M sucrose, broken by 50 strokes and diluted to 0.3M sucrose. Membranes were separated on a discontinuos sucrose gradient at 120000g for 3h. PMSF was added throughout the procedure and all steps were performed at 4°C. Leaves were homogenized with 340mM sorbitol, 0.4mM KCl, 0.04mM EDTA, 2mM HEPES, pH 7.8, filtered twice, and centrifuged for 10s at 3500× g CITATION. The same medium was used to obtain total extracts. Pellets were resuspended in 400mM sorbitol, 2mM EDTA, 1mM MgCl2, 1mM MnCl2, 50mM HEPES, pH 7.8, and contained intact chloroplasts. Chlorophyll concentration was measured, 0.5, 2.5 and 5μg proteinase K per 10μg chlorophyll was added and mixture was incubated for 20min on ice. Following addition of PMSF (5mM) and washing twice, chloroplasts were loaded on 40% Percoll and centrifuged for 10min at 6000× g. Intact chloroplasts were recovered in pellet, washed twice and loaded on SDS–PAGE. IPGphor (Pharmacia) was used for isoelectric focusing with Immobilin strips (linear pH gradient 4–7 or 3–10). 2% ASB-14 was added to the rehydration buffer (2% Chaps, 9M urea, 0.5% IPG buffer, and 18mM DTT). 2D gels, obtained in parallel, were either transblotted to PVDF membrane and decorated with anti-ClC antibodies, or stained with Colloidal Coomassie solution. Spots were excised and analyzed by mass spectrometry (MS). All experiments were repeated at least three times and yielded similar results. Protein digestion was performed according to Shevchenko et al. CITATION, with minor modifications. The dried tryptic digest samples were reconstituted in 10μl of 0.5% TFA in water and were purified with a ZipTipC18 (Millipore). For electrospray MS analysis, the peptides were eluted in 50% acetonitrile containing 0.2% formic acid. Data were collected on a Micromass Q-Tof Micro mass spectrometer (Manchester, UK) (capillary voltage: 3000–3200V; cone voltage: 45V; scan time: 1s; interscan: 0.1s). Spectra were analyzed using Micromass MassLynx. The MASCOT program (www.matrix-science.com) was used to search for all MS/MS spectra against the Swiss-Prot database. The parameters were set to allow parent ion mass tolerance to be 1 Da and fragment mass tolerance to be 0.8 Da, and up to two missed trypsin cuts were allowed. Leaves were homogenized with 340mM sorbitol, 0.4mM KCl, 0.04mM EDTA, 2mM HEPES, pH 7.8, filtered twice, and centrifuged for 10s at 3500× g CITATION. Pellets were resuspended in the assay medium. Purity and intactness was checked by inverted microscope. Experiments were performed using a Clark electrode (Hansatech) as described in CITATION. Briefly, the assay medium for intact chloroplasts contained 330mM sorbitol, 2mM EDTA, 1mM MgCl2, 1mM MnCl2, 50mM HEPES–KOH (pH 7.6), 0.2% bovine serum albumin and 10mM d,l-glyceraldehyde (included to inhibit CO2 fixation). The intactness of chloroplasts was assayed by the Hill reaction CITATION. Electron acceptor K3Fe(CN)6 (2.7mM) was added. Thylakoids were obtained by osmotic shock of intact chloroplasts (corresponding to 78μg Chlorophyll, diluted in 620μl sterile water) and then assayed in the same final medium as above. Chorophyll concentration was equal to 60μg/ml in all experiments and oxygen evolution was measured at 25°C in the dark, followed by application of light with an intensity of 2000μEm−2 s−1. Oxygen evolution in control condition in intact chloroplasts was 15.11±0.99μmol O2/(mg Chlh) (n =20) while in osmotically shocked chloroplasts (thylakoids) it was 49.6±2.8μmol O2/(mg Chlh) (n =20). When applied, chloroplasts or thylakoids were incubated with CPA for 10min in the dark on the ice prior to measurement. Controls were performed to exclude any effect of the solvent. Oxygen evolution was determined by using the FIP program and expressed as μmol O2/(mg Chlh). The absolute values measured under control conditions varied slightly among preparations depending on spinach sample, and oxygen evolution values in the presence of the inhibitor were normalized accordingly. Mean±S.D. values are reported in the graphic. Independent unpaired t-tests were performed. Analyses were performed with a PAM101 fluorometer (Waltz), 2000μEm−2 s−1 intensity light was applied.
