!~ABS~! The ambient-light conditions mediate chloroplast relocation in plant cells. Under the low-light conditions, chloroplasts accumulate in the light (accumulation response), while under the high-light conditions, they avoid the light (avoidance response). In Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), the accumulation response is mediated by two blue-light receptors, termed phototropins (phot1 and phot2) that act redundantly, and the avoidance response is mediated by phot2 alone. A mutant, J-domain protein required for chloroplast accumulation response 1 (jac1), lacks the accumulation response under weak blue light but shows a normal avoidance response under strong blue light. In dark-adapted wild-type cells, chloroplasts accumulate on the bottom of cells. Both the jac1 and phot2 mutants are defective in this chloroplast movement in darkness. Positional cloning of JAC1 reveals that this gene encodes a J-domain protein, resembling clathrin-uncoating factor auxilin at its C terminus. The amounts of JAC1 transcripts and JAC1 proteins are not regulated by light and by phototropins. A green fluorescent protein-JAC1 fusion protein showed a similar localization pattern to green fluorescent protein alone in a transient expression assay using Arabidopsis mesophyll cells and onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells, suggesting that the JAC1 protein may be a soluble cytosolic protein. Together, these results suggest that JAC1 is an essential component of phototropin-mediated chloroplast movement.
!~RES~! To identify mutations in genes other than PHOT2 and CHUP1 leading to defects in chloroplast avoidance movement, we developed a new screening method to detect the chloroplast accumulation response called the GBA. In this assay, a leaf is detached at the petiole and the whole leaf placed on the surface of an agar plate. The leaf is irradiated with strong white light, which results in a color change in wild-type leaves from green to pale green as a consequence of the avoidance response. Then, the leaf is covered with a black plate with an open slit of 1 mm in width, through which part of the leaf is irradiated with weak blue light. A green band appears in wild-type leaves through the accumulation response, but mutants lacking the accumulation response do not develop the green band. As expected, under whole-leaf irradiation with the strong light, the wild-type leaf showed a green band with GBA, but phot2-1 and chup1-3 mutants did not show a green band due to defect(s) in avoidance response (Fig. 1A). To exclude phot2 and chup1 mutants, WBA was also applied after GBA. As described previously (CITATION; CITATION), wild-type and phot1-5 leaves showed a white band under WBA, whereas phot2-1 showed a green band. phot1-5 phot2-1 and chup1-3 leaves showed no band (Fig. 1B). [[FIGURE]] Mutants lacking a band under GBA and showing a white band under WBA were selected as candidates for mutants deficient in the chloroplast accumulation response. About 83,000 ethylmethane sulfonate (EMS)-mutagenized seeds, about 13,000 fast-neutron mutagenized seeds, about 26,000 γ-ray mutagenized seeds, and 2,960 T-DNA-tagged lines were screened, and four mutants were obtained. All of them had a single nuclear recessive mutation and fell into two complementation groups (data not shown). In this article, we describe one of the groups, termed jac1. Two independent jac1 alleles, jac1-1 (EMS) and jac1-2 (T-DNA), were isolated. Leaves from these mutants showed a white band under WBA (Fig. 1B) but no green band under GBA (Fig. 1A). To confirm that this band phenotype in jac1 mutants results from the impairment in chloroplast movement, wild-type and jac1 mutant plants were dark adapted for about 12 h and then irradiated with white light of 10 or 100 μmol m−2 s−1 for 2 h (low-fluence [LL] or high-fluence rate white light [HL], respectively). Leaves were then fixed and the distribution of chloroplasts observed (Fig. 2). In wild-type plants, the chloroplasts moved to the cell surface under LL condition in an accumulation response, whereas they moved to the anticlinal wall under HL condition in an avoidance response (Fig. 2A). In jac1 mutants, the distribution of chloroplasts under both LL and HL conditions was similar to that of wild-type plants under HL conditions (Fig. 2A). However, the area of cell surface occupied by chloroplasts under HL was smaller than that seen under LL (Fig. 2B), meaning that jac1 mutants are normal in the avoidance response. To investigate chloroplast photorelocation movement in more detail, part of a jac1 or wild-type mesophyll cell was irradiated with a microbeam of blue light and chloroplast movement recorded using a video camera (Supplemental Movie 1). Under these conditions, wild-type cells responded to low-fluence rate blue light (5.6 μmol m−2 s−1) and the chloroplasts moved toward the light spot. In jac1 mutants, however, the chloroplasts moved away from the beam spot, even at the fluence rate of 5.6 μmol m−2 s−1, and never gathered in the irradiated area, confirming that jac1 mutants are defective in the chloroplast accumulation response but not in the avoidance response. [[FIGURE]] In cells of wild-type plants dark adapted for about 12 h prior to irradiation, we found that most of the chloroplasts were at the bottoms of cells and few chloroplasts were visible on the upper cell surfaces (Figs. 2A and 3). Interestingly, the chloroplast positioning in dark-adapted jac1 mutant cells resembled that of wild-type cells irradiated with HL (Figs. 2A and 3). Dark adaptation for longer time periods (for 24 h or 48h) did not induce chloroplast accumulation on the cell bottom in jac1 mutants (Fig. 3A). In cross sections of wild-type and mutant leaves, chloroplasts in the wild-type cells showed accumulation on the cell bottom, whereas chloroplasts in jac1 cells did not sediment and were distributed randomly (Fig. 3B). Surprisingly, phot2-1 mutant cells but not phot1-5 mutant cells were also defective in chloroplast accumulation on the cell bottom. The chloroplast distribution was similar to that of jac1 mutants (Fig. 3). The phot1-5 phot2-1 double mutant also lacked the dark-accumulation response, and some chloroplasts were found on the upper cell surface. Other alleles of phot2 were also defective in the dark accumulation response (data not shown). Given that the dark-accumulation response is normal in phot1-5, a null allele (CITATION), and is impaired in several phot2 alleles other than phot2-1, it is likely that only phot2 mediates this response, possibly via JAC1. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the role of the JAC1 gene in phototropin-mediated chloroplast photorelocation movement, the phenotypes of phot1-5 jac1-1, phot2-1 jac1-1, and phot1-5 phot2-1 jac1-1 mutants were analyzed and compared with that of phot1-5, phot2-1, and phot1-5 phot2-1, respectively (Supplemental Fig. 1). The phot1-5 jac1-1 double mutant has a similar phenotype to the jac1-1 single mutant (Supplemental Fig. 1). In this experiment, the accumulation response in phot1-5 was very weak, and chloroplasts accumulated less on cell surface (Supplemental Fig. 1) compared to the wild type. The phot2-1 jac1-1 double mutant showed no band under either WBA or GBA (Fig. 1), and was defective in the dark-sedimentation and avoidance responses, although some chloroplasts were found on the cell surface under both LL and HL conditions (Supplemental Fig. 1). However, the chloroplast density on the surface was constant for at least 2 h under LL or HL conditions, unlike in wild type or the phot2-1 single mutant. Experiments with microbeam irradiation revealed that the phot2-1 jac1-1 mutant cells failed to undergo both accumulation and avoidance movements (Supplemental Movie 2), indicating that the chloroplast distribution on the cell surface under LL and HL conditions is not the result of light-induced directional movements. The difference in chloroplast distribution between light and dark condition was not found in phot1-5 phot2-1 or phot1-5 phot2-1 jac1-1 mutants (Supplemental Fig. 1). The chloroplast densities in phot1-5 phot2-1 or phot1-5 phot2-1 jac1-1 mutant were constant regardless of the light conditions (Supplemental Fig. 1). The phot1-5 phot2-1 and phot1-5 phot2-1 jac1-1 mutant plants lacked all three types of chloroplast movement (dark positioning, accumulation movement, and avoidance movement). Altogether, phot2 mediates three different types of chloroplast movement under the three light conditions tested (darkness, LL, and HL), but phot1 regulates only the accumulation response under LL and HL. Although chloroplasts were found at the cell surfaces of the periclinal wall in phot1-5 phot2-1 plants, the chloroplasts of phot1-5 phot2-1 jac1-1 plants tended to be at the anticlinal wall, similar to the chloroplast distribution in jac1 mutants (Supplemental Fig. 1). Taken together, these results suggest that JAC1 must be an indispensable component for chloroplast accumulation movement with the exception of the avoidance response. Initially, the jac1 mutation was mapped close to the simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP) marker ATPase on the lower arm of chromosome 1 (Fig. 4A). To narrow down the map position of the jac1 mutation further, fine structure mapping was performed using the Cereon Arabidopsis polymorphism collection data (CITATION), which contains new SSLP and cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) markers. Analysis of 836 chromosomes derived from the segregating F2 mutant plants from crosses between the jac1-1 Columbia (Col-0) background and Landsberg erecta narrowed the position of JAC1 to two bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs), F9E10 and F22H5 (Fig. 4A). Since the genomic sequences of these BACs are available, the annotated genes within this interval were amplified by PCR in both jac1-1 and jac1-2, and then sequenced. Both mutants contained a lesion in the putative open reading frame of one gene, At1g75100 (Fig. 4B). Sequences of several expressed sequence tags (ESTs) have been deposited in GenBank. Although some ESTs contain a 3′ polyadenylation site, both 5′ and 3′ end sequences were determined by RACE-PCR. Recently, two full-length cDNA clones corresponding to this gene (AY057504 and AY103303) were deposited in GenBank. Comparison between the two cDNA sequences and our cDNA sequence revealed that the complete coding region is present in all cDNA clones. The gene consists of nine exons interrupted by eight introns (Fig. 4B). The jac1-1 mutation is a C-to-T transition at the 2,413 nucleotide from the start codon. The jac1-2 mutation is 40-bp deletion between nucleotides 1,839 and 1,878, which is predicted to truncate a splice site between intron 4 and exon 5. Transgenic jac1-1 mutants carrying a T-DNA insertion containing a 4.5-kb At1g75100 genomic fragment recovered not only the chloroplast accumulation response but also the dark positioning (Fig. 4, C and D). However, the jac1-1 plants transformed with vector alone did not recover these responses, confirming that At1g75100 corresponds to the JAC1 gene. [[FIGURE]] The JAC1 gene is predicted to encode a 651-amino acid polypeptide (Fig. 5A). Domain homology searches show that the JAC1 protein contains a J-domain at the C terminus (Fig. 5A). The J-domain, which contains the highly conserved His/Pro/Asp tripeptide, plays an important role in organizing interactions with its Hsp70 chaperone partner(s) (CITATION). The JAC1 J-domain is similar to the J-domain of auxilin, a clathrin-uncoating factor in cow, yeast, and worm (CITATION). Auxilin has been shown to uncoat clathrin-coated vesicles (CITATION). The auxilin J-domain interacts with HSC70 protein, recruiting HSC70 to the clathrin heavy chain. Across the C-terminal domain, JAC1 shares between 25% and 31% amino acid similarity with animal and yeast auxilins (Fig. 5B). A BLAST search (The Arabidopsis Information Resource; http://www.arabidopsis.org/Blast/) revealed the existence of six other Arabidopsis proteins similar to auxilin. The C-terminal domain of JAC1 shares between 47% and 57% amino acid similarity with that of the six Arabidopsis proteins (Fig. 5B). A His/Pro/Asp motif is completely conserved among all these proteins. However, their N-terminal domains have no homology to other nonplant auxilins and no other recognizable domain, but a short stretch of conserved amino acids is found within a 100-amino acid region of the N termini (Fig. 5C). [[FIGURE]] Recently, sequences of 28,469 full-length cDNA clones from rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica cv Nipponbare) were published (CITATION). We searched the full-length cDNA database of the Rice Genome Resource Center (http://cdna01.dna.affrc.go.jp/cDNA/) and identified two cDNA clones (AK071995 and AK099437) as putative rice JAC1 homologs (tentatively OsJAC1). Comparison of genomic and cDNA sequences revealed that the OsJAC1 gene has nine exons and eight introns, the same as the Arabidopsis JAC1 gene. The OsJAC1 gene is predicted to encode a 607-amino acid polypeptide, and the amino acid similarity of the C-terminal J-domain with that of the Arabidopsis JAC1 protein is 69.2% (Fig. 5,A and B). OsJAC1 protein has a higher similarity to JAC1 than to the other Arabidopsis auxilin-like proteins, suggesting that OsJAC1 is the rice ortholog of JAC1 (Fig. 5B). Besides the J-domain, the JAC1 and OsJAC1 proteins, but not other auxilin-like proteins, share two blocks of conserved amino acids, ExPVFGxxTSSxRRR and VKGKVxDFxKIFS (Fig. 5A, double underlined). Additional cDNA sequences highly similar to OsJAC1 were found in the maize (Zea mays), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and barley (Hordeum vulgare) EST collections in database searches (data not shown). However, it remained to be determined whether these monocot JAC1-like genes are also involved in chloroplast movement. Since we could not detect JAC1 transcripts by RNA gel-blot analysis (data not shown), expression of the JAC1 gene was determined by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR (Fig. 6). JAC1 gene was found to be expressed in leaves and stems but not in root tissues of 7-week-old plants (Fig. 6A), and expression was higher in leaves than in stems. In jac1-1 and jac1-2 mutants, the JAC1 transcripts accumulated at levels similar to wild type (Fig. 6B). However, jac1-1 transcripts contain a C-to-U transition 1,807 nucleotides from the start codon, corresponding to the jac1-1 mutation in JAC1 gene. This base change introduces a stop codon. In jac1-2, amplified JAC1 fragments were thus slightly smaller than the others (Fig. 6B). The jac1-2 transcripts had no exon 5 sequence and contained premature stop codon. Thus, the two jac1 alleles were deduced to encode prematurely truncated polypeptides. In phot1-5 phot2-1 double mutants, JAC1 transcripts accumulated at similar levels to wild type (Fig. 6), indicating that the defect in the chloroplast accumulation response is not a defect in the accumulation of JAC1 transcripts. [[FIGURE]] To investigate accumulation of JAC1 protein in wild-type, jac1, and phototropin mutant plants, endogenous JAC1 protein was analyzed by western blotting with polyclonal antisera against the C terminus of JAC1 (Fig. 6C). The JAC1 antisera recognized a protein band of around 85 kD, although it was larger than the predicted molecular mass (approximately 75 kD). This protein band was not observed in jac1-1 (Fig. 6C) and jac1-2 (data not shown) mutants, indicating that these two mutants are null alleles. JAC1 protein abundance in wild-type plants was not affected by dark adaptation for about 12 h (D) followed by irradiation with white light of 10 or 100 μmol m−2 s−1 for 2 h (2L or 2H) or darkness (2D; Fig. 6C). Moreover, the amount of JAC1 protein did not change in phot1-5, phot2-1 and phot1-5 phot2-1 double mutant plants (Fig. 6C). Therefore, the defect in chloroplast movement in phototropin mutants is not caused by the lack of JAC1 protein accumulation. Since chup1-3 plants also contain amounts of JAC1 protein comparable to wild-type plants (Fig. 6C), the unusual positioning of chloroplasts in chup1-3 plants (CITATION) must not result from deficiency of JAC1 protein. To investigate JAC1 protein localization, a cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter-driven fusion between the green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene and JAC1 cDNA (35S-GFP-JAC1) was expressed transiently in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells (Fig. 7A) and in Arabidopsis mesophyll cells (Fig. 7B). A 35S-GFP vector alone was used as the control. In both type of cells transformed with the fusion protein, GFP fluorescence was observed all over the cells, including the nuclei (Fig. 7). Organelle-specific fluorescence was not detected, but in the onion epidermal cells (Fig. 7A) fluorescence of cytoplasmic strands was clearly visible, suggesting that both GFP-JAC1 and GFP itself must be distributed in the cytosol. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The culture medium for plant cultivation was 0.8% agar plate containing one-third-strength Murashige and Skoog inorganic salt described previously (CITATION), but supplemented with 1% Suc. Seeds were sown on the culture medium, treated at 4°C for 2 d, and grown under white light at approximately 100 μmol m−2 s−1 (16 h)/dark (8 h) cycle at 25°C in an incubator (Biotron LH300-RPSMP; Nippon Medical & Chemical). Plants were cultured for at least 2 weeks for mutant screening and mapping, and for about 3 weeks for other experiments. EMS-, γ-ray-, and fast neutron-mutagenized seeds (Lehle Seeds) and T-DNA-tagged lines (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center) were screened by band assay. For the GBA, excised leaves were placed on a 0.8% agar plate with their adaxial sides up, covered with a transparent film, and irradiated with strong cool-white light (approximately 800 μmol m−2 s−1) for 1 h. Thereafter, the plate was covered with a black box with open slits and the leaves were irradiated with weak white light (about 47 μmol m−2 s−1) through the slits for 30 min. Appearance of a green band was assessed for each leaf. For WBA, excised leaves were set on agar plates as for GBA and then irradiated with strong cool-white light through the slits for 1 h (CITATION). Mutants were backcrossed at least three times with wild-type Col-0 gl1 background (Lehle Seeds). To obtain double or triple mutants, jac1-1 plants were backcrossed with pollen of phot1-5 (CITATION) or phot2-1 (CITATION). The phot1-5 jac1-1 and phot2-1 jac1-1 double mutants were confirmed in no green band seedlings in the F2 progeny from each cross using the polymorphism in each gene. phot1-5 phot2-1 double mutant was described previously (CITATION). phot1-5 phot2-1 jac1-1 triple mutant was constructed by crossing between phot1-5 jac1-1 and phot2-1 jac1-1. The chup1-3 mutant was described previously (CITATION). Three-week-old seedlings, grown on 0.8% agar plates containing one-third-strength Murashige and Skoog salt and 1% Suc, were dark adapted for about 12 h and then irradiated with white light at 10 or 100 μmol m−2 s−1 for 2 h. White light was obtained from 40-W white fluorescent tubes (FLR40SW; Mitsubishi). Leaves of dark-adapted and white light-treated plants were cut at the petioles and fixed with 2.5% glutaraldehyde in fixation buffer (20 mm PIPES, 5 mm MgCl2, 5 mm EGTA, 0.5 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 1% dimethyl sulfoxide, pH 7.0). Specimens were observed and photographed under a microscope. Areas of cell surface and areas occupied by chloroplasts were measured, and the ratio of the chloroplast-covered area to the area of cell surface was calculated. For cross sections, fixed leaves were washed with fixation buffer and then post-fixed with 1% OsO4 for at least 1 h. After washing out OsO4 with water, specimens were dehydrated with a graded acetone series and embedded in Spurr's resin. Sectioning of specimens was performed with a Reichert Ultramicrotome (Ultracut; Reichert-Jung). Toluidine blue-stained sections were observed. For microbeam experiments, 3-week-old seedlings were dark adapted for 1 d prior to use. The details of microbeam equipment and associated experimental conditions are described by CITATION. The jac1-1 mutant in a Col-0 background and Landsberg erecta plants were crossed. F2 mutant plants were selected, and genomic DNA from the individual plants was analyzed for cosegregation with SSLP and CAPS markers. For the CAPS and SSLP markers used for mapping, refer to http://www.arabidopsis.org/aboutcaps.html. We also developed new SSLP markers from information in the Cereon Arabidopsis polymorphism collection (CITATION). The T-DNA vector, pBI-HI-BSKR, was used, and the 35S-GUS-NOS terminator region (HindIII-SalI restriction fragment) of T-DNA vector pBI-HI-IG (CITATION) was replaced with the multi-cloning site (PvuII fragment) from pBluescript SK (+) (Stratagene). A genomic DNA fragment containing At1g75100 was amplified from BAC F9E10 (provided from Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center) by PCR with two primers, 5′-AAGCTTTTAGAGAAAGTAGCTGTCAAT-3′ and 5′-GGTACCAGCTTTAAGTATAAGTTAAGA-3′ (underline shows HindIII site and KpnI site, respectively), and was then ligated into the HindIII-KpnI site of the vector (pBI-HI-BSKR-At1g75100). The jac1-1 mutants were transformed with pBI-HI-BSKR or pBI-HI-BSKR-At1g75100 by the floral-dipping method (CITATION) using the Agrobacterium EHA101 strain. Transformants were selected with 30 mg/L hygromycin. Homozygous plants in the T2 generation were used for experiments. RNA was extracted from 3-week-old or 7-week-old seedlings. First-strand cDNA was synthesized from total RNA using oligo(dT). The amount of cDNA between each genotypes was normalized using β-tubulin 2 (TUB2) as an internal marker. The genes for JAC1 and TUB2 were amplified from the normalized cDNA by PCR with specific primers. The primers used were as follows: 5′-CTCTGACCTCCGAAAGCTTGC-3′ and 5′-TCACCTTCTTCATCCGCAGTT-3′ for TUB2; and 5′-TGCAGACATTACCAAGCTCAG-3′ and 5′-TCCGAGAGTGTTGAAG-TGGTC-3′ for JAC1. Amplifications were done for 15, 20, 25, or 30 cycles with an annealing temperature of 55°C and an extension time of 2 min for JAC1 and 1 min for TUB2. The PCR products were separated by electrophoresis on an agarose gel. PCR products amplified for 25 cycles were used for Figure 6. The amplified products covering 2 to 1,947 bp of JAC1 and 741 to 1,304 bp of TUB2 (from the start codon) were confirmed by sequence analyses (ABI PRISM 3100, PE Applied Biosystems). RACE-PCR was performed according to the manufacturer's protocol (Gibco-BRL). For 5′-RACE, first-strand cDNA was synthesized using a gene-specific primer GSP1 (5′-TGGAATCTCTGTTGCTTTTG-3′). Next, cDNA was amplified with GSP2 (5′-ATACAGGCTTCTCGTCTTGC-3′) and reamplified with GSP3 (5′-CGGGACTACGCAACACAGGT-3′) to nest the reactions. For 3′-RACE, cDNA was amplified with GSP1 (5′-ATGCCAAGGAAACTGTAAAC-3′) and nested with GSP2 (5′-AACATTCGGTCTCTTCTATC-3′). The PCR products were subcloned into the pGEM-T Easy Vector (Promega) and sequenced. A C-terminal fragment of JAC1 (residues 301 to 550 without J-domain) was cloned into the BamHI-EcoRI site of the glutathione S-transferase gene fusion vector pGEX2T (Amersham Pharmacia). The fusion protein expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 for 2 h 37°C in the 1 mm isopropyl-β-D-thiogalactoside was purified using glutathione-Sepharose 4B (Amersham Pharmacia) according to the manufacturer's protocol. Polyclonal antisera against this fusion protein raised in a rabbit (Qiagen) were used for immunoblotting. Total proteins were extracted from 3-week-old seedlings with 2× SDS gel-loading buffer (100 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 10% 2-mercaptethanol, 4% SDS, and 20% glycerol). The protein extract was diluted and the protein concentration quantified using the Bio-Rad Protein Assay according to the manufacturer's protocol. One hundred micro grams of proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE, transferred onto polyvinylidene difluoride membranes (Immobilon P; Millipore), and probed with JAC1-antisera. A synthetic GFP (S65T) driven by the CaMV 35S promoter (35S-GFP) was used (CITATION). The JAC1 cDNA fragment covering the interval between the predicted start and stop codons was subcloned into the BsrGI-NotI sites of 35S-GFP (35S-GFP-JAC1). Onion (Allium cepa) epidermal strips or excised Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) rosette leaves were placed on 0.8% agar plate containing one-third-strength Murashige and Skoog salt, and the vectors were introduced by gold particle bombardment with a Biolistic Particle Delivery System-100/He (Bio-Rad). Bombardment was done twice for each sample under the following delivery conditions: gold particle diameter, 1.6 μm; helium pressure, 1,550 p.s.i.; target distance, 9 cm; and chamber vacuum pressure, 660 mm Hg. Samples were then incubated in darkness for about 15 to approximately 18 h. GFP fluorescence was observed with an Axioskop and a 50-W halogen lamp and a filter set (BP450-490, FT510, and LP515 for an excitation filter, a dichroic mirror and a barrier filter, respectively; Zeiss). Experiments presented were repeated at least five times independently with the same result. Upon request, materials integral to the findings presented in this publication will be made available in a timely manner to all investigators on similar terms for noncommercial research purposes. To obtain materials, please contact the corresponding author. Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession number AB158477.
