!~ABS~! GYF domains are conserved eukaryotic adaptor domains that recognize proline-rich sequences. Although the structure and function of the prototypic GYF domain from the human CD2BP2 protein have been characterized in detail, very little is known about GYF domains from other proteins and species. Here we describe the binding properties of four GYF domains of various origins. Phage display in combination with SPOT analysis revealed the PPG(F/I/L/M/V) motif as a general recognition signature. Based on these results, the proteomes of human, yeast, and Arabidopsis thaliana were searched for potential interaction sites. Binding of several candidate proteins was confirmed by pull-down experiments or yeast two-hybrid analysis. The binding epitope of the GYF domain from the yeast SMY2 protein was mapped by NMR spectroscopy and led to a structural model that accounts for the different binding properties of SMY2-type GYF domains and the CD2BP2-GYF domain. 
!~RES~! GYF domains from evolutionary distant species of the eukaryotic kingdom were chosen for analysis. The sequence alignment of these domains is shown in Fig. 1 and highlights the conserved amino acids of the N-terminal part of the domains. In the case of GYN4 and SYH1, two GYF domain constructs of varying length were used to account for the presence of an internal PRS that is localized directly adjacent to the anticipated domain borders (Fig. 1). The phage libraries applied for the screen were of the format X2PPPX3 or X9, and the peptides were expressed as gene VIII fusion proteins (CITATION). Individual clones were sequenced after six rounds of panning, and the results are summarized in Table I. As can be seen, the obtained sequence motifs for both libraries are similar, and the preference for the PPG core motif is observed for all of the GYF domains. A strict requirement for a third consecutive proline is not seen in the case of the X9 library and is in agreement with previous structural data of the CD2BP2-GYF domain·CD2 peptide complex, showing that the PPG motif contributes most of the van der Waals interactions (CITATION). The general requirement for the PPG motif suggests that the binding mode for the four GYF domains and CD2BP2-GYF is similar. The requirement for only two prolines raises the question, however, whether formation of the polyproline II helix is a prerequisite for binding of ligands to GYF domains in general.  [[TABLE]] For the position directly C-terminal to the PPG motif, the GYF domains of SMY2, SYH1, and PERQ2 seem to accept most hydrophobic amino acids with a preference for leucine or isoleucine. For the GYN4-GYF domain (containing amino acids 546–604 of the full-length protein), phenylalanine is the preferred amino acid at this position, whereas a longer construct (GYN4-PR; amino acids 546–619) that includes the proline-rich sequence KSGPPPGFTG failed to select for peptides defining a consensus (Table I and data not shown). Interestingly the internal PRS comprises the consensus motif PPGF for this GYF domain as can be seen from Table I. Because previous experiments from our group have shown that a C-terminally linked proline-rich ligand can bind intramolecularly to the CD2BP2-GYF domain (Fig. 1) (CITATION), we suggest that the intramolecular binding of the ligand in GYN4-PR masks the GYF domain binding site accordingly. In contrast, the presence of the internal PRS directly N-terminal to the GYF domain in SYH1 does not interfere with phage selection (Table I). This is in agreement with experiments of CD2BP2-GYF domain single chain constructs, showing that a short linker sequence is not sufficient to allow the intramolecular interaction between an N-terminal binding motif and the GYF domain to take place (CITATION).  Substitution analysis of individual peptides selected by phage display were conducted to identify residues within the peptide that are important for binding. Therefore, peptides were synthesized on a cellulose membrane, and the binding to GST-GYF domains was analyzed by anti-GST antibody detection (Fig. 2 ). The substitution analysis highlights the requirement for the PPG(F/I/L/V) motif for the GYF domains of PERQ2, SMY2, and SYH1. A large hydrophobic amino acid is clearly preferred as the most C-terminal amino acid of the motif in these cases, whereas GYN4-GYF exclusively binds to the PPGF motif. For all four domains, amino acids outside of the central PPGΦ motif of the phage display-derived peptides are not critical for binding. This suggests that hydrophobic interactions almost entirely account for the observed binding behavior. In summary, these results identify the general recognition code for the SMY2 subfamily of GYF domains to be PPG(F/I/L/M/V) with subtle domain-dependent variations in specificity (Table I and Fig. 2).  [[FIGURE]] The phage display results allowed us to define the recognition signature for each individual domain (Table I, strict consensus). Strict consensus sequences included the most frequently found PPGX motifs or motifs with amino acids at position X that show physicochemical properties similar to the frequently found amino acid. The relaxed consensus motifs comprised the essential binding motifs derived from the substitution analysis. Additional positions were not taken into account for both strict and relaxed consensus because the substitution analysis results showed that the PPGX motif is the major determinant for binding. We performed database searches in the Swiss-Prot/TrEMBL, The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR), and SGD databases for the different GYF domains with relaxed and strict consensus motifs (Table I) following a strategy that has also been used by others (CITATION). For the yeast GYF domains, the search was performed with the relaxed consensus PPG(A/C/F/G/I/L/M/V/W/Y). For the human PERQ2-GYF domain and the A. thaliana GYF domain of GYN4, the relaxed consensus PPG(A/E/F/H/I/L/M/S/T/W/Y) and PPG(F/I/L/M/V/W/Y) were applied in the database search, respectively. In the latter two cases, motifs were only selected if present twice in the protein with a maximal linker distance of 40 amino acids. This accounts for avidity effects of tandem binding motifs and reduces the number of database hits below 1000. Based on our phage display results, database searches were also performed with the strict motifs PPGL and PPGF for the GYF domains of PERQ2 and GYN4, respectively, to identify optimal individual binding motifs. All human proteins (except for procollagens, collagens, and hypothetical proteins) were considered in the search for PERQ2. 349 non-redundant motifs in 152 proteins for the relaxed and 166 non-redundant motifs in 157 proteins for the strict consensus were found. Correspondingly for A. thaliana the relaxed motif was found 34 times in 15 proteins, and the strict consensus was found 227 times in 221 proteins of the A. thaliana proteome. For S. cerevisiae, 168 motifs in 153 sequences containing the relaxed consensus were analyzed. To test binding, the peptides obtained from the database searches were synthesized on a membrane and incubated with the respective GST-GYF domain constructs. Fig. 3 shows the results for the various domains and clearly indicates that many of the sequences deduced from the database bind to the GYF domains (Supplemental Table 1). To validate the results from the proteome analysis, several interaction candidates for the different GYF domains were chosen for further analysis according to signal strength and number of consensus motifs present within the proteins (Table II ). In addition, fluorescence and NMR titrations of GYF domains with selected peptides were performed. The dissociation constants for the GYF domain peptide interactions are in the range of 4–300 μℳ (see Table IV and Supplemental Fig. 1) when a simple two-state binding model was assumed.  [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] From the proteome analysis a large set of interactions was derived for the individual GYF domains. For the two yeast GYF domains of SMY2 and SHY1, the most likely interaction candidates are MSL5, EAP1, and PRP8 with seven, four, and three motifs fitting to the relaxed consensus, respectively (Table II), whereas three other proteins contain the motif twice. SPOT analysis confirmed that several of the PRSs in the yeast proteins MSL5 and EAP1 present bona fide binding sites for SMY2 and SYH1 in vitro, and avidity effects likely contribute to enhanced binding in vivo. To validate MSL5 and EAP1 as interaction partners, we performed pull-down experiments with the two GST-tagged yeast GYF domains and lysates of cells overexpressing HA-tagged MSL5 or EAP1.  The experiment confirmed the interaction between the yeast GYF domains and both MSL5 and EAP1 (Fig. 4, lanes 3 and 5), and the interactions could be competed out with the proline-rich peptide MSL5L1 (Fig. 4, lanes 4 and 6, and see Table IV). This establishes that the PRSs of MSL5 and EAP1 mediate the direct interaction with SMY2 and SYH1. Interestingly MSL5 has been reported as an interaction partner for both SMY2 and SYH1 in a yeast two-hybrid screen (see the SGD at www.yeastgenome.org), further supporting our findings. EAP1 was described as a protein binding to the cap-binding protein eIF4E (CITATION), and subsequently a role in translational attenuation in response to vesicular transport defects has been reported (CITATION). Because SMY2 was cloned as a suppressor of the myo2-66 mutation of type V myosin (CITATION), a motor protein playing a decisive role in vesicular transport, this interaction establishes a particularly interesting link between transport processes and splicing or translational control. From a biochemical point of view, the binding of identical target proteins by SMY2- and SYH1-GYF is not surprising because the two GYF domains are very homologous. The biological implications of this redundancy are not clear, but the identified interaction partners hint to a role of SMY2 and/or SYH1 in processes that are coupled to the transport of splicing factors and translational attenuators.  [[FIGURE]] For the GYF domain of the human PERQ2 protein we chose the three nuclear proteins SmB, NPWBP, and SWAN for further investigations by yeast two-hybrid analysis. As can be seen from Fig. 5, an interaction with PERQ2-GYF could be established for all three proteins, and the results show that the proposed interaction can take place under more physiological conditions. In addition to this knowledge-driven identification of binding partners, we performed a yeast two-hybrid screen for the human PERQ2-GYF and the A. thaliana GYN4-GYF domain. Unbiased screening of a human lung cDNA library for interaction partners of the PERQ2-GYF domain resulted in the identification of a number of putative interactors, including the small nuclear ribonucleoproteins SmB/B′, the closely related snRNP-associated protein N (snRNP-N, SmN), U1 snRNP protein C, and the SWAN protein (Fig. 6 A and Table III). These findings are in good agreement with the interaction partners that were proposed by the knowledge-based strategy (Figs. 3 and 5) described elsewhere (CITATION) because all of the above mentioned proteins contain the phage display-derived recognition motif (Table I). SmB/B′ was previously identified as a binding partner of CD2BP2 (CITATION), and it will be interesting to further investigate whether SmB/B′ and SmN also attract the PERQ2-GYF domain in vivo. Such an interaction would imply that the two GYF domain-containing proteins converge in the recognition of proteins of the SmB/SmN family. Because U1 snRNP protein C and SWAN also represent nuclear proteins and because NPWBP colocalizes with splicing factors (CITATION), a function of PERQ2-GYF in splicing or splicing-associated processes is well conceivable. Initial localization experiments with GFP-PERQ2-GYF support this notion, showing a predominant nuclear localization (data not shown). However, the mouse homolog of PERQ2, GIGYF2, was identified as a binding partner of the cytosolic adaptor protein Grb10 by a yeast two-hybrid screen. Because human Grb10, in contrast to mouse Grb10, is devoid of a PPGΦ recognition motif, the function of the human PERQ2 and the mouse GIGYF2 protein may well be different.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] For the GYN4-GYF domain of A. thaliana, the yeast two-hybrid screen resulted in the selection of At2g28540.1, At3g45630.1, At5g60170.1, and At5g65410.1 (Fig. 6B and Table III). All of these proteins contained the PPGF motif that was also selected by the phage display screen (Table I). Interestingly the first three proteins obtained from the yeast two-hybrid analysis contained two PPGF motifs spaced by six or seven amino acids (Table III), a pattern previously found in the CD2BP2-GYF ligand CD2 (CITATION). These proteins were also identified by our proteome analysis as potential interaction partners (Fig. 3, strict consensus) and show that the two complementary methods result in the identification of an overlapping set of proteins. One protein, Atg45630.1, has the same domain composition but a low overall sequence homology to the CNOT4 protein (39.5% similarity). CNOT4 has been described to be part of the CCR4·NOT transcription complex (CITATION). It is a potential transcriptional repressor and possesses E3 protein ubiquitin ligase activity. The biochemical characterization of this complex in plant is elusive, but our data hint toward an involvement of GYF domain-containing proteins in transcriptional regulation of A. thaliana gene expression. Based on these findings, the binding of the human CNOT4 protein to GYF domain-containing proteins should be further tested for its potential biological relevance since the human protein contains the PERQ2-GYF domain recognition motif PPGL.  To obtain a detailed molecular picture of the interaction between a GYF domain of the SMY2 subfamily of GYF domains and a PRS, backbone assignments of NMR heteronuclear triple resonance spectra of the 13C/15N isotope-labeled SMY2-GYF domain were performed. This allowed us to map the binding site for the MSL5S1 peptide (Table IV ). The overlay of spectra of isolated SMY2-GYF (red) with SMY2-GYF domain in the presence of equimolar amounts (green) and a 10-fold excess (blue) of MSL5S1 peptide is shown in Fig. 7A. The deduced NH chemical shift changes of residues of the SMY2- and CD2BP2-GYF domain upon addition of MSL5S1 and CD2S peptides, respectively, are depicted in Fig. 7B. Most of the residues that show large chemical shift changes are part of the characteristic bulge-helix-bulge motif within the N-terminal half of the domains and are indicated as green bars. The three residues Leu-289, Gln-290, and Ile-291 in the C-terminal half of SMY2-GYF display significant chemical shift changes, but the homologous residues in CD2BP2-GYF only show small changes (Fig. 7B, blue bars). Because large chemical shift changes are indicative of residues that are close in space to the ligand, the data can be qualitatively used to compare the binding epitopes of SMY2 (or homologous SMY2-type GYF domains) and CD2B2-GYF. The structure of one SMY2-type GYF domains was recently deposited in the Protein Data Bank (GYF domain from the A. thaliana protein Q9FT92, Protein Data Bank code1WH2),2 and based on sequence comparisons (Fig. 1) we plotted the results for the SMY2-GYF domain (Fig. 7B) onto the surface of the GYF domain of Q9FT92 (Fig. 7C). Residues forming the novel binding epitope, as depicted in blue in Fig. 7, B and C, are partially solvent-exposed in the case of SMY2-like GYF domains but not in CD2BP2-GYF, which might explain the differences seen in the binding preferences for the two types of GYF domains (see “Discussion”).  [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] The two proteins GYN4 and SYH1 display internal sequence motifs that match the consensus of the respective GYF domain. Fig. 3 shows that the two GYF domains recognize these motifs when synthesized on a membrane. The presence of the internal PRS in the GYF domain construct PR-SYH1 had no influence on phage display (Table I) or pull-down experiments (Fig. 4), whereas the KSGPPPGFTG sequence of GYN4 interfered with binding in phage display (data not shown) and yeast two-hybrid experiments (Fig. 6). In contrast, the shorter GYN4-GYF construct allowed us to define a recognition motif (Table I) and to identify interaction partners (Fig. 6). Misfolding of the domain due to the proline-rich extension could be ruled out because the GST fusion protein of GYN4-PR was able to bind to peptides synthesized on a membrane where concentrations are high enough to compete out the intramolecular interaction (data not shown). Taken together, these findings suggest that interaction in cis between the GYN4-GYF domain and the internal PRS masks its binding site, whereas for the SYH1 protein the intramolecular sequence does not influence the interaction competence of its GYF domain. Further support for intramolecular encounter between GYN4-GYF and its internal PRS is derived from fluorescence titration experiments (Fig. 8 ). For the GYF domain-only construct (residues 546–604 of GYN4), a KD value of ∼4 μℳ for binding to the GYN4 peptide was obtained (Table IV). The presence of the internal recognition motif within the construct GYN4-PR decreased the affinity to the titrated GYN4 peptide by a factor of 8. In addition, the spectrum of the GYN4-PR and the shorter construct in its bound form display similar centroid positions (Fig. 8). The most likely explanation for the different behavior of GYN4-PR is the intramolecular binding of a large fraction of the GYF domain to the internal PRS. Additional binding is only observed at a large excess of externally added peptide. The assumption of an intramolecular interaction is substantiated by studies on artificial CD2BP2-GYF single chain constructs with N- or C-terminally linked interaction sites (Fig. 1) that were used to obtain NMR restraints for structural investigations of the CD2BP2/CD2 interaction (27). Only C-terminal linkage resulted in the formation of a soluble, intramolecular interaction and supported the view that the CD2 peptide SHRPPPPGHRV binds exclusively in one orientation to the CD2BP2-GYF domain (CITATION). Similarly the linker between the GYF domain and the C-terminal interaction site within the GYN4 protein is of sufficient length to enable the autoinhibited conformation, whereas the attachment of a PRS directly N-terminal to the GYF domain, as it is present within the SYH1 protein, excludes such an encounter. The observation of intramolecular masking is likely to be of functional relevance and might prevent unwanted low affinity interactions from taking place. Co-compartmentalization of a protein containing a high affinity binding site can be envisaged to outcompete the intramolecular interaction under appropriate conditions. In addition, post-translational modification of residues close to the binding site, as for example phosphorylation or methylation, might act as regulatory switches for the GYF domain-mediated interactions.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The estimated domain borders of the GYF domains of proteins PERQ2 (Swiss-Prot accession number O75137; resi-dues 531–596), GYN4 (Swiss-Prot accession number Q9FMM3; residues 546–604), SMY2 (Swiss-Prot accession number P32909; residues 243–340), and SYH1 (Swiss-Prot accession number Q02875; residues 150–226) were obtained from sequence alignments, and the corresponding fragments were subcloned into expression vectors. For GYN4 and SYH1, longer constructs containing an internal PRS (GYN4 residues 546–619, termed GYN4-PR, and SYH1 residues 141–226, termed PR-SYH1; see Fig. 1) were also cloned into protein expression vectors. All constructs were amplified from the following DNA clones. PERQ2 was derived from the cDNA clone HJ03496 and GYN4 was derived from genomic P1 clone MBD2 (kind gifts from Takahiro Nagase and Satoshi Tabata, Kazusa DNA Research Institute, respectively), whereas SMY2 and SYH1 were amplified from genomic DNA of yeast strain S288C. For GST fusion protein expression, the fragments of PERQ2, SYH1, and SMY2 were cloned into pGEX4T-1 (Amersham Biosciences) via BamHI and XhoI restriction sites, and the fragments of GYN4 were cloned via BamHI and NotI restriction sites. For yeast two-hybrid screens the GYF domains of PERQ2 and GYN4 were cloned into the bait vector pGBKT7 (Clontech) via NcoI and BamHI and via NcoI and NotI restriction sites, respectively. For the yeast two-hybrid analysis of selected candidates, the same fragment of PERQ2 was also introduced into the prey vector pGADT7 (Clontech). Fragments of the candidates NPWBP (Swiss-Prot accession number Q9Y2W2; residues 388–551), SmB (Swiss-Prot accession number P14678-2; residues 148–231), and SWAN (Swiss-Prot accession number Q9NTZ6; residues 700–869) were amplified from the following I.M.A.G.E. Consortium (Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory) cDNA clones (CITATION) obtained from the Deutsches Ressourcenzentrum für Genomforschung GmbH: IRALp962P0114Q2 (NPWBP), IMAGp998D118415Q3 (SmB), and IRALp962K1725Q2 (SWAN). The respective I.M.A.G.E Consortium clone identification numbers are 3829990, 3445210, and 3956772. These fragments, comprising the proline-rich regions of the respective proteins, and the cytoplasmic tail of CD2 (Swiss-Prot accession number P06729; residues 245–351) were inserted into pGBKT7 via NcoI-NotI or EcoRI and BamHI restriction sites in the latter case.  The His6-tagged GYF domain of SMY2 was expressed from a modified pET28 vector, containing an N-terminal His6 tag, followed by a thrombin cleavage site and BamHI and XhoI restriction sites, which allowed cloning similar to that for the GST fusion construct; for His6-tagged PERQ2, the corresponding fragment was cloned into the pTFT74 vector (CITATION) via NcoI and HindIII sites with an N-terminal His6 tag introduced via PCR.  Cloning of the focused library RKRSHRXXPPPXXXVQ into PC89 was similar to the procedure described elsewhere (17). PC89 and the PC89 nonapeptide library (X9) were a gift from Gianni Cesareni (Dipartimento di Biologia, Universita di Roma).  Proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3-pLys S) and purified from the soluble fraction after sonication. GST-GYF and His6-tagged GYF domains were purified by affinity chromatography using glutathione-Sepharose and Ni2+-nitrilotriacetic acid-agarose according to the manufacturer’s manual (Amersham Biosciences), respectively, and dialyzed against PBS. To obtain NMR samples for titration experiments and backbone resonance assignments of the SMY-GYF domain, cells were grown on defined media supplemented with [15N]NH4Cl and/or [13C]glucose. The His6 tag of SMY2-GYF and GST tag of SYH1-GYF were removed by thrombin cleavage (Calbiochem, 10 units/mg of protein, at 4 °C and 16 °C overnight in PBS, respectively), and the domains were purified by subsequent gel filtration (Superdex® 75, Amersham Biosciences) in PBS.  Phage displaying the nonapeptide (X9) or the focused peptide library fused to the major capsid protein were produced by transforming E. coli XL-1 Blue cells with PC89 constructs followed by superinfection with the VCS-M13 helper phage (Stratagene). After overnight incubation in 2× YT medium in the presence of ampicillin and kanamycin (30 °C at 270 rpm) phage particles were purified by three successive polyethylene glycol/NaCl precipitations (CITATION). Library screening was performed as follows. 30–50 μl of GST-GYF-loaded glutathione-Sepharose 4B beads (Amersham Biosciences) were incubated with 5 × 109–5 × 1011 infectious particles at 4 °C overnight in PBS. After washing three times with PBS, bound phages were eluted with 100 mℳ glycine HCl, pH 2.2, and neutralized with 2 ℳ Tris. For phage amplification, E. coli XL-1 Blue cells were infected with eluted phage followed by superinfection with helper phage and subsequent incubation as described above. After six rounds of panning, the inserts of selected phage were sequenced to identify their displayed peptides.  Peptides were synthesized on Whatman 50 paper using an Auto-Spot Robot (ASP 222, Invartis AG, Köln, Germany). Peptide synthesis using Fmoc (N-α-(9-fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl)) chemistry on β-alanine functionalized cellulose membranes was performed according to standard protocols (CITATION). Membranes were probed with GST-GYF protein as described elsewhere (CITATION). Briefly the membranes were incubated with GST-GYF (40 μg/ml) overnight. After washing with PBS, bound GST fusion protein was detected with rabbit polyclonal anti-GST antibody (Z-5, Santa Cruz Biotechnology) and horseradish peroxidase-coupled anti-rabbit IgG antibodies (Rockland). An enhanced chemiluminescence substrate (SuperSignal West Pico, Pierce) was used for detection by a LumiImager™ (Roche Applied Science).  The NMR experiments were performed at 297 or 299 K on either a Bruker DRX600 or DMX750 instrument equipped with standard triple resonance probes. Data processing and analysis were carried out with the XWINNMR (Bruker) and SPARKY (CITATION) software packages. Backbone assignment of the SMY2-GYF domain was based on the CBCA(CO)NH (CITATION), the CBCANH (CITATION), and the HNCO (CITATION) experiments of SMY2-GYF in PBS. In the NMR titration experiments, increasing amounts of synthetic peptides (see Table IV) were added to a 0.2 mℳ sample of the 15N-labeled CD2BP2- or SMY2-GYF domain. The gradual change of chemical shifts in the heteronuclear single quantum coherence spectra allowed the resonances of the ligand-bound GYF domain to be unambiguously assigned. The sum of the chemical shift changes for 15N and 1H atoms in a sample with peptide was determined as ((Δ1H)2 + (Δ15N)2)1/2 where Δ1H is in units of 0.1 ppm and Δ15N is in units of 0.5 ppm. Curve fitting and KD calculations were performed with the Microcal™ Origin™ program assuming a simple two-state binding model.  Fluorescence of GYF domains or GST-GYF fusions in the case of GYN4 (3 μℳ in PBS) was excited at 280 nm in the presence of increasing amounts of peptides (see Table IV) at 25 °C on a PerkinElmer Life Sciences LS-50B fluorometer, and the emission spectra were recorded between 300 and 400 nm. Centroid shifts were calculated using the software SpecWin (a kind gift of Sebastian Modersohn). Binding data were analyzed as described above.  Yeast two-hybrid experiments were performed using MATCHMAKER GAL4 two-hybrid system 3 according to the manufacturer’s manual (Clontech). For library screens, the pGBKT7 bait construct encoding for the GAL4 DNA-binding domain fused to the GYF domain of PERQ2 or GYN4, either with or without its PRS extension, was introduced into the yeast strain AH109 followed by the transformation with the human lung cDNA library in the pGAD vector (Clontech) or the Horwitz and Ma A. thaliana two-hybrid library (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center) (CITATION), respectively. Plasmids of cotransformants growing on synthetic defined medium deficient for His, Leu, and Trp or Ala, His, Leu, and Trp were rescued from yeast according to a modified MATCHMAKER protocol. After incubation with lyticase and lysis of cells with SDS and freeze-thawing, lysates were mixed with N3 buffer of the Qiagen plasmid isolation kit, and plasmid preparation followed the protocol thereof. Selected candidates were sequenced to identify the polypeptide interacting with the respective GYF domains. For the analysis of suggested interaction partners and for reconfirming candidates from the yeast two-hybrid screen, the corresponding bait/prey vector combinations were introduced into yeast and cultured on synthetic defined medium as described above.  Yeast strain BY4741 was transformed with Yep352-5′+3xHA/EAP1 (CITATION) (a gift from Nahum Sonenberg) or GAL-MSL5-HA(3) (CITATION) (a gift from Michael Rosbash). Exponentially growing cells were harvested at A600 of 0.7–1.4, washed with 0.9% NaCl, and resuspended in lysis buffer (50 mℳ Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 1% DMSO, 100 mℳ NaCl, 1 mℳ EDTA, 1 mℳ PMSF, 1 tablet/100 ml Complete Mini EDTA-free protease inhibitor mixture, Roche Applied Science) supplemented with PMSF to a final concentration of 3.4 mℳ and Complete Mini EDTA-free protease inhibitor mixture to ∼2.8 tablets/10 ml. Cells were lysed by vortexing three times for 1 min with ∼3 g of glass beads (425–600 μm, acid washed, Sigma)/g of cell wet weight. Cell debris were removed by centrifugation (20 min at 16,000 rpm), and lysates were snap frozen.  25 μl of glutathione-Sepharose 4B beads (Amersham Biosciences), loaded with GST or GST fusion proteins of the respective GYF domains (SYH1 and SMY2), were incubated with 100-μl lysates at 4 °C overnight in the absence or presence of 1 mℳ competing peptide MSL5L1 (see Table IV). Beads were washed three times with PBS. Bound proteins were eluted in SDS sample buffer, separated by SDS-PAGE, and transferred onto nitrocellulose membrane. HA-tagged MSL5 or EAP1 was detected by probing the membrane with anti-HA antibody (BD Biosciences) and a horseradish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibody. The immunoblots were then developed as described for the SPOT analysis. 
