!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana secretome was analyzed by the proteomic approach, which led to the identification of secreted proteins implicated in many aspects of cell biology. We then investigated the change in the Arabidopsis secretome in response to salicylic acid and identified several proteins involved in pathogen response. One of these, a secreted lipase with a GDSL-like motif designated GDSL LIPASE1 (GLIP1), was further characterized for its function in disease resistance. glip1 plants were markedly more susceptible to infection by the necrotrophic fungus Alternaria brassicicola compared with the parental wild-type plants. The recombinant GLIP1 protein possessed lipase and antimicrobial activities that directly disrupt fungal spore integrity. Furthermore, GLIP1 appeared to trigger systemic resistance signaling in plants when challenged with A. brassicicola, because pretreatment of the glip1 mutant with recombinant GLIP1 protein inhibited A. brassicicola–induced cell death in both peripheral and distal leaves. Moreover, glip1 showed altered expression of defense- and ethylene-related genes. GLIP1 transcription was increased by ethephon, the ethylene releaser, but not by salicylic acid or jasmonic acid. These results suggest that GLIP1, in association with ethylene signaling, may be a critical component in plant resistance to A. brassicicola.
!~RES~! Cell cultures derived from Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (Col-0) were established to isolate proteins secreted into the medium. The culture medium was harvested on d 4, at which point the cells were actively proliferating at the mid-log phase. The isolated secreted proteins were tested for contamination with nonsecretory proteins by protein gel blot analysis using antibodies specific for the cell wall protein myrosinase (CITATION), the cytosol proteins glutathione S-transferase (GST) and cyclin D, the cytosol and membrane protein annexin1 (AnnAt1), and the chloroplast protein oxygen-evolving enhancer protein2 (OEE2) (Figure 1). The extracellular protein myrosinase was found mostly in the secreted fraction, whereas the others were detected exclusively in the cultured cells (i.e., the nonsecreted fraction). [[FIGURE]] To confirm the lack of contamination of the culture medium, we estimated cytosolic marker enzyme activities, namely, those of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH), in the separated medium and callus fractions (Table 1). The enzyme activities were high in the cells but not detectable in the medium. These data suggest that the secretome prepared from the culture medium was essentially free of contamination by nonsecreted proteins. However, we cannot rule out the possibility that some proteins in the secretome were leaking from dead or damaged cells. The instability of contaminating cytosolic marker proteins accumulating in the culture medium may explain this. Cytosolic Marker Enzyme Activities in the Cell and Culture Medium Fractions For proteomic analysis, the isolated secreted proteins were subjected to 2D gel electrophoresis (Figure 2). Approximately 400 protein spots were detected on a silver-stained 2D gel. The secreted proteins were relatively small and mostly distributed in the 10- to 100-kD range. Analysis of the protein spots by MALDI-TOF MS led to the identification of 107 spots that correspond to 91 different proteins (Figure 2; see Supplemental Table 1 online). [[FIGURE]] Of the proteins identified, 60 (66%) have known functions or sequences similar to those of known proteins, whereas 31 (34%) are novel and have not been assigned any functions. All proteins were categorized into classes based on their functions. The largest class consisted of the novel or uncharacterized proteins (34%). The next largest class contained proteins involved in signaling and regulation (29.6%). The other functions included catalysis (17.6%), protein degradation (6.7%), protein protection (5.5%), structure (3.3%), and retrotransposition (3.3%). These results show that secreted proteins are implicated in a variety of cellular functions. Secreted proteins are known to bear a short stretch of amino acids called a signal sequence at their N terminus (CITATION). To determine whether the secreted proteins we identified contain such a signal sequence, we analyzed them with SignalP software (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/SignalP), which searches for signal sequences and their cleavage sites (CITATION). Of the proteins analyzed, 49 (54%) appear to contain signal sequences with mean S scores > 0.48 (see Supplemental Table 1 online). To identify secreted proteins involved in the pathogen response, we analyzed the change in the Arabidopsis secretome in response to SA, a plant hormone that regulates defense signaling (CITATION). Thus, Arabidopsis cell cultures were left untreated or were treated with 0.5 mM SA for 2 and 6 h, after which the culture medium was collected and analyzed by comparative 2D gel electrophoresis. Protein spots whose intensity in the SA-treated medium was altered relative to the untreated control medium were quantitatively analyzed. We performed three independent experiments and selected only those spots whose abundance varied reproducibly by greater than twofold. Eighteen protein spots were selected and subjected to MALDI-TOF MS analysis for protein identification (Table 2). Identification of SA-Responsive Proteins Secreted by Arabidopsis Cell Cultures The identified protein spots corresponded to 13 different proteins, as some were present in multiple spots, which suggests that they undergo posttranslational modifications. Of the 13 proteins, 3 had protein names or known functions but 10 were novel or unknown proteins in the Arabidopsis genome databases. These unknown proteins were then scanned against Prosite (http://ca.expasy.org/tools/#pattern), a database of protein families and domains, and additionally assigned functional motifs (i.e., a jacalin-related protein, a Leu-rich repeat, and the active site of esterase/lipase/thioesterase; Table 2). A GDSL motif lipase/hydrolase–like protein (spot 119), designated GLIP1, was selected for further analysis because plant-derived secreted lipases have not been implicated previously in the pathogen response. In a BLAST search of the Arabidopsis genome database, six additional GLIP genes were identified and designated GLIP2 to GLIP7 (Figure 3). A comparison of the amino acid sequences reveals that GLIP1 is 68 to 78% identical to GLIP2, GLIP3, and GLIP4, whereas its similarity to the other GLIPs is lower (32 to 52% identical to GLIP5, GLIP6, and GLIP7). The GLIPs represent a novel lipase gene family with a GDSL-like motif (CITATION) and a signal peptide as predicted by SignalP (CITATION). All seven GLIPs contain a catalytic triad of Ser, Asp, and His conserved among the lipase and esterase families. Another characteristic feature of the GLIPs is that the classical lipase signature sequence GxSxG is replaced by GxSxxxxG, which overlaps with the GDSL motif (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the subcellular localization of GLIP1, we fused soluble, modified green fluorescent protein (smGFP) to GLIP1 expressed under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. The smGFP fusion constructs of full-length GLIP1, GLIP1 lacking the signal peptide (GLIP1ΔSP), and the signal peptide alone (SP) were introduced into onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells. After incubation for 24 h, fluorescence from smGFP was examined by fluorescence microscopy (Figure 4). The smGFP control and GLIP1ΔSP were expressed in the cytosol. However, GLIP1 and SP fluorescence signals were clearly located in the intercellular space, indicating that the signal sequence leads to the secretion of GLIP1. The fluorescence of GLIP1 appeared to be confined in the intercellular space, unlike the diffuse pattern of SP. The intercellular localization was clarified in the presence of mannitol, which induces plasmolysis, pulling the cytosol away from the cell wall, and thus allowing the two to be distinguished from one another (Figure 4E). These results are consistent with the proteomic data demonstrating that GLIP1 is secreted into the cell wall or extracellular space. [[FIGURE]] To assess the in vivo function of GLIP1, we searched the Salk Institute insertion sequence database for T-DNA insertion mutants and obtained two alleles, glip1-1 and glip1-2, in which the T-DNA inserts are in the fifth exon and second intron, respectively (Figure 5A). The mutant seeds were originally heterozygous for a single T-DNA insertion with a 3:1 segregation ratio. Homozygous lines were identified in the next generation. To determine the exact position of the T-DNA insertion, genomic DNA fragments of the GLIP1 gene and T-DNA junction were amplified and sequenced (Figure 5A). DNA gel blot analysis determined that these lines contained a single T-DNA insertion (Figure 5B). It was also demonstrated that the homozygous mutants did not express GLIP1 transcripts (Figure 5C). Under normal growth conditions, glip1 plants showed growth similar to Col-0 (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Because GLIP1 was isolated in a screen for SA-responsive secreted proteins, it was first assessed whether glip1 mutants exhibit altered responses to infection by the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae, which is closely associated with SA signaling (CITATION). The bacterial growth and disease symptom development after inoculation with virulent Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato DC3000 (Pst DC3000) did not differ significantly between Col-0 and glip1 plants (Figure 6D). The development of systemic acquired resistance (SAR) was also observed in both Col-0 and glip1 plants, as examined by treatment of primary leaves with avirulent Pst DC3000 carrying avrRpt2 [Pst DC3000 (avrRpt2)] before challenge of secondary leaves with Pst DC3000 (Figure 6D). These results suggest that GLIP1 is not involved in resistance to P. syringae in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] We then examined the resistance phenotypes of glip1-1, glip1-2, Col-0, and a different Columbia ecotype, Col-6, after inoculation with the necrotrophic fungus A. brassicicola. In the infection cycle, spore germination is followed by the extension of the germ tube over the leaf surface. At the tip of hyphae, fungi develop appressoria for direct penetration into the host and eventually colonize the tissue (CITATION). Col-0 and Col-6 were used as natural wild-type ecotypes that are resistant and susceptible, respectively, to A. brassicicola (CITATION). It was previously shown that inoculation of Col-0 wild-type plants with A. brassicicola induces the hypersensitive response, resulting in small necrotic lesions restricted to the infection sites (CITATION, CITATION). We also observed that Col-0 inoculated with A. brassicicola formed small brown necrotic lesions (Figure 6A). By contrast, the glip1-1, glip1-2, and Col-6 plants developed spreading lesions upon inoculation (Figures 6A and 6C). As visualized by lactophenol–aniline blue staining, those spreading lesions were heavily colonized by fungal hyphae (Figure 6B). Furthermore, determination of spore number produced de novo at the inoculation site revealed that new spores were abundantly produced on glip1 and Col-6 leaves, unlike Col-0, on which few, if any, new spores were formed (Figure 6C). No difference between glip1-1 and glip1-2 was observed in disease resistance, indicating that the observed phenotypes are the consequence of a T-DNA insertion into the GLIP1 gene. To determine whether GLIP1 has a lipase activity that is required for resistance to A. brassicicola, the recombinant GLIP1 protein was expressed in Escherichia coli (Figure 7A). Along with wild-type protein, we prepared a GLIP1 mutant whose Ser-44 of the catalytic triad was replaced by Ala (S44A). These proteins were assayed for lipase activity using p-nitrophenyl acetate and p-nitrophenyl butyrate as substrates (Figure 7B). The wild-type GLIP1 exhibited high activity, but the GLIP1(S44A) mutant did not, demonstrating that GLIP1 is a lipase and that Ser-44 in the catalytic triad participates in the hydrolytic activity. [[FIGURE]] Because GLIP1 is a secreted protein, it is conceivable that GLIP1 directly inhibits the pathogenic activity of A. brassicicola. The antimicrobial activity of GLIP1 against A. brassicicola was thus assessed. When fungal spores were incubated with recombinant wild-type and mutant proteins, spore germination was inhibited by the active form of GLIP1 (Figures 8A and 8B). GLIP1(S44A) had little effect on the fungal growth. Furthermore, scanning electron microscopy showed that GLIP1 caused severe morphological changes in the fungal spores (Figure 8C). These results suggest that GLIP1 may directly disrupt the structure of the fungal cell wall and/or membrane in a specific manner. [[FIGURE]] When inoculated with A. brassicicola, Col-0 activates the SAR response that leads to the induction of defense-related genes such as PDF1.2, PR-3, and PR-4 (CITATION; CITATION). We thus investigated whether GLIP1 is implicated in local and systemic defense responses that are induced in plants by pathogen challenge. When the leaves of A. brassicicola–challenged plants were stained with trypan blue, extensive cell death associated with the systemic spreading of this fungus was observed in both the peripheral and distant leaves in glip1-1 but not in Col-0 (Figure 9A). In Col-0 with SAR induced, cell death was restricted to the inoculated site. Therefore, the expression of SAR could be determined by monitoring the presence of trypan blue–stained cells. The glip1-1 plants were pretreated with recombinant GLIP1 protein, followed by localized A. brassicicola inoculation (1°p) (Figure 9B). This localized inoculation on the pretreated leaves (1°p) was then followed by the application of A. brassicicola to the other distal leaves (1°). There was a significant decrease in both local (1°p) and systemic (1° and 2°) cell death, reflecting the induction of SAR in leaves remote to the infection (Figure 9B). It was noticeable that pretreatment of glip1-1 with GLIP1 protein in local leaves (1°p) systemically inhibited cell death in distant leaves (1°) inoculated with A. brassicicola, in which cell death would be otherwise strongly induced. By contrast, pretreatment with GLIP1 in the absence of localized A. brassicicola inoculation (p) failed to inhibit cell death in both 1° and 2° leaves (Figure 9B, right). Here, primary (1°) and secondary (2°) indicate inoculated and uninoculated leaves, respectively. These data suggest that GLIP1 activates systemic resistance signaling only when challenged with A. brassicicola. [[FIGURE]] Signaling molecules such as SA, jasmonic acid (JA), and ethylene accumulate during defense and, in turn, trigger the coordinated expression of defense genes. Resistance to A. brassicicola involves the cooperative actions of JA and ethylene (CITATION; CITATION). PDF1.2, PR-3, and PR-4 require JA and ethylene for activation, whereas PR-1, PR-2, and PR-5 are induced by SA (CITATION). In addition, many genes (e.g., ERF1, EIN2, and EIN3) have been identified to function in ethylene signaling (CITATION). We thus analyzed the expression levels of these genes, including GLIP1, in Col-0 and glip1-1 upon A. brassicicola treatment. GLIP1 transcription was strongly induced in Col-0 (Figure 9C). Whereas PR gene expression did not differ, PDF1.2 was less induced in glip1-1. Furthermore, the basal RNA levels of the SA-dependent PR genes, PR-1, PR-2, and PR-5, were much higher in glip1-1 than in Col-0. Of the ethylene-related genes, EIN2 and EIN3 also exhibited altered expression in glip1-1. The expression of EIN2 was repressed in Col-0 but somewhat induced in glip1-1 in response to A. brassicicola. An increase of EIN3 in Col-0 was reversed in glip1-1 with reduced expression. These results suggest that glip1 may be defective in ethylene signaling. In agreement with this, the high basal expression level of SA-related PR genes in glip1-1 is consistent with the suggestions that the SA and ethylene pathways interact in an antagonistic manner (CITATION). Although A. brassicicola infection induces PR-1, it has been shown that the resistance to this pathogen is dependent on the JA/ethylene signaling pathway (CITATION). Noticeably, GLIP1 was strongly induced by ethephon over 24 h (Figure 9D). A slight increase in GLIP1 expression was observed upon treatment with SA and JA. These results demonstrate that the increase of GLIP1 protein in the secretome is regulated posttranslationally (i.e., by secretion) and/or transcriptionally. Together, these results suggest that GLIP1 may be a critical component in the resistance response in association with ethylene signaling.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown in a growth room at 23°C under long-day conditions (16-h light/8-h dark cycle). Plants were also grown under short-day conditions (8-h light/16-h dark cycle) for infection with Pseudomonas syringae, because Arabidopsis displays age-related resistance to P. syringae (CITATION). Arabidopsis ecotype Col-0 (catalog no. WT-02) was purchased from Lehle Seeds. Arabidopsis ecotype Col-6 (catalog no. CS8155) and the T-DNA insertion mutants glip1-1 (SALK_037272) and glip1-2 (SALK_130146) were obtained from the ABRC. Callus was generated from the cotyledons of young seedlings and induced on induction medium (Murashige and Skoog [MS] medium, pH 5.8, 3% sucrose, 0.8% agar, and 2 mg/L 2,4-D). A cell suspension culture was initiated by inoculating 1 to 2 g of callus into 50 mL of MS medium supplemented with 3% sucrose and 2 mg/L 2,4-D as described (CITATION). The suspension cells (10 mL) were subcultured into 50 mL of fresh medium once every week and maintained with gentle agitation (120 rpm). For hormone treatments, SA (1 mM), methyl jasmonate (50 μM), and ethephon (1.5 mM) were dissolved in water and applied as a spray to 4-week-old plants. The treated plants were kept at 100% RH and then harvested at the indicated times. Infection with P. syringae was performed as described (CITATION). Pst DC3000 (avrRpt2) and Pst DC3000 were grown overnight in King's B medium containing 100 μg/mL rifampicin with and without 50 μg/mL kanamycin, respectively, washed twice, and resuspended in 10 mM MgCl2. Four-week-old plants were infiltrated at two sites of two primary leaves with 20-μL aliquots of 10 mM MgCl2 or Pst DC3000 (avrRpt2) (106 colony-forming units/mL), which was followed by infiltration at two sites of secondary leaves with 20-μL aliquots of Pst DC3000 (106 colony-forming units/mL) the next day. Inoculation with Alternaria brassicicola was performed by applying a 10-μL drop of spore suspension (5 × 105 spores/mL) on each leaf of 4-week-old plants. For pretreatment with GLIP1 proteins, plants were infiltrated into one site on the abaxial surface of each leaf with PBS (control) or GLIP1 proteins (1 μg) in 10-μL aliquots and incubated for 24 h before pathogen inoculation. Inoculated plants were kept at 100% RH in a growth chamber for the indicated times. To count the number of spores, 10 leaves were collected and vigorously shaken in 5 mL of 0.1% Tween 20 in a test tube. Leaves were removed, and the spore-containing suspension was centrifuged at 5000g for 15 min. The spores were resuspended in 200 μL of 0.1% Tween 20, serially diluted, and counted with a microscope. The suspension cultures were left untreated or treated with 0.5 mM SA 4 d after subculture. At the indicated times, the cultures were passed twice through a membrane filter (0.2 μm) in a vacuum apparatus to remove the cells from the culture medium. The collected medium (secreted fraction) was then freeze-dried in a vacuum lyophilizer and dialyzed against buffer (10 mM MES, pH 5.8). The prepared secreted proteins were stored at −70°C. The 2D gel electrophoresis and gel analysis were performed as described (CITATION). Secreted proteins were resuspended in isoelectric focusing sample buffer (7 M urea, 2 M thiourea, 4% 3-[(3-cholamido propyl)-dimethylammonio]-1-propane sulfate, 1% carrier ampholytes, 20 mM DTT, and 0.001% bromophenol blue) and used to rehydrate immobilized pH gradient strips (240 mm, pH 4 to 7; Amersham Biosciences). Isoelectric focusing was performed for a total of 320,000 to 350,000 voltage hours on the IPGphor system (Amersham Biosciences). To run gels in the second dimension, 12% SDS polyacrylamide gels were used. The 2D gels were stained with silver nitrate according to the manufacturer's instructions (Amersham Biosciences). To create the reference map, 2D gels were scanned and analyzed by ImageMaster 2D Elite software (Amersham Biosciences). For each condition analyzed, three to five gels were prepared from three different protein extractions. The volumes of silver-stained spots were normalized according to the volumes of internal standards. The SA-induced changes were subjected to statistical analysis with Student's t test, and those spots with P < 0.05 were considered for identification by MALDI-TOF MS. Peptide samples were prepared as described previously (CITATION). Peptide masses were measured on a MALDI-TOF MS system (Voyager-DE STR; Applied Biosystems). Peptide mass fingerprint data were matched to the National Center for Biotechnology Information nonredundant database entries using the MS-Fit program (http://prospector.ucsf.edu/ucsfhtml4.0/msfit.htm). The following search parameters were applied. Mass tolerance was set to 50 ppm [(experimental mass – theoretical mass)/theoretical mass in daltons], and one incomplete cleavage was allowed. Acetylation of the N terminus, alkylation of Cys by carbamidomethylation, oxidation of Met, and pyroGlu formation of N-terminal Gln were set as possible modifications. Molecular mass and pI ranges were set to 10 to 200 kD and 4 to 7, respectively. The database search disclosed matching proteins ranked according to peptide number matches, sequence coverage, and the Molecular Weight Search (MOWSE) score. Although the candidate ranked at the top was considered a positive identification, protein identification was assigned when the following criteria were met: at least five matching peptides, >15% sequence coverage, and a MOWSE score > 103. For immunoblotting, proteins were separated on 12% SDS-polyacrylamide gels and electrotransferred onto nitrocellulose membranes. Membranes were incubated with anti-GST, anti-AnnAt1 (CITATION), anti-OEE2 (CITATION), anti-cyclin D (CITATION), and anti-myrosinase (CITATION) antibodies. Anti-myrosinase antibody was provided by Atle Bones, and the other antibodies were prepared in the Kumho Life and Environmental Science Laboratory. Antibody-bound proteins were detected by incubation with secondary antibodies conjugated to horseradish peroxidase using the enhanced chemiluminescence system (Amersham Biosciences). The genomic DNA was digested, separated, and blotted onto a Hybond N+ nylon membrane (Amersham Biosciences). The T-DNA–specific probe for DNA analysis contained the partial sequence of the left border of T-DNA and was generated by PCR using primers 5′-GCTGCCTGTATCGAGTGGTGATTTTGT-3′ and 5′-TCCTTTCGCTTTCTTCCCTTCCTTTCTC-3′. Hybridization was performed for 16 to 24 h at 60°C. Membranes were then washed with 1× SSC (1× SSC is 0.15 M NaCl and 0.015 M sodium citrate)/0.1% SDS, then with 0.5× SSC/0.1% SDS, and finally with 0.1% SSC/0.1% SDS. The bands were visualized by autoradiography. RT-PCR was performed with 0.1 μg of total RNA using the Access RT-PCR system (Promega). The primers used in the RT-PCR are as follows: for GLIP1, 5′-CGATTGTGCACCAGCCTCATTGGTT-3′ and 5′-CAGCGCTTTGAGATTATAGGGTCC-3′; for PR-1, 5′-TCGTCTTTGTAGCTCTTGTAGGTG-3′ and 5′-TAGATTCTCGTAATCTCAGCTCT-3′; for PR-2, 5′-CGTTGTGGCTCTTTACAAACAACAAAAC-3′ and 5′-GAAATTAACTTCATACTTAGACTGTCGAT-3′; for PR-3, 5′-CGGTGGTACTCCTCCTGGACCCACCGGC-3′ and 5′-CGGCGGCACGGTCGGCGTCTGAAGGCTG-3′; for PR-4, 5′-GACAACAATGCGGTCGTCAAGG-3′ and 5′-AGCATGTTTCTGGAATCAGGCTGCC-3′; for PR-5, 5′-ATGGCAAATATCTCCAGTATTCACA-3′ and 5′-ATGTCGGGGCAAGCCGCGTTGAGG-3′; for PDF1.2, 5′-GCTAAGTTTGCTTCCATCATCACCCTT-3′ and 5′-AACATGGGACGTAACAGATACACTTGTG-3′; for EIN2, 5′-TGCAGCTCGCATAAGCGTTGTGACTGGTA-3′ and 5′-CGCTCTCTCCATTTAACCGAGTTAACAC-3′; for EIN3, 5′-GATGTTGATGAATTGGAGAGGAGGATG-3′ and 5′-ACGTCTCTGAGGAGGATCACAGTGT-3′; for ERF1, 5′-CGGCTTCTCACCGGAATATTCTATCG-3′ and 5′-TCTCCGAAAGCGACTCTTGAACTCTCT-3′; and for Actin1, 5′-GGCGATGAAGCTCAATCCAAACG-3′ and 5′-GGTCACGACCAGCAAGATCAAGACG-3′. Endogenous ADH and G6PDH activities were measured as described (CITATION; CITATION). Proteins were extracted in extraction buffer (50 mM Tris, pH 8.0, and 15 mM DTT) and centrifuged at 12,000g for 15 min at 4°C. The reaction mixture for ADH contained 50 mM Tris, pH 9.0, 0.867 mM NAD+, 20% ethanol, and aliquots of protein extracts. The reaction for G6PDH was performed in 86.3 mM triethanolamine, pH 7.6, 6.7 mM MgCl2, 0.37 M NADP+, 12 mM glucose-6-phosphate, and aliquots of protein extracts. The increase in absorbance at 340 nm was monitored every 15 s for 60 s. The activities were expressed as micromoles of NAD+ or NADP+ reduced per minute per milligram of protein. The DNAs of GLIP1, GLIP1ΔSP, and SP were generated by PCR using the following primers with the sequences for cloning sites XbaI and XhoI (underlined): for GLIP1, 5′-GATCTCTAGAATGGAAAACTCTCAATTAG-3′ and 5′-GATCCTCGAGATTAAGTTCAAACAGCGC-3′; for GLIP1ΔSP, 5′-GATCTCTAGAATGGACAACAATAATCTTGTA-3′ and 5′-GATCCTCGAGATTAAGTTCAAACAGCGC-3′; and for SP, 5′-GATCTCTAGAATGGAAAACTCTCAATTAG-3′ and 5′-CCGCTCGAGGACACTAGAGAGAGTATC-3′. The amplified DNAs were cloned into the XbaI and XhoI sites of the pBI221 vector (Clontech) so that smGFP was fused in frame to the C termini of the DNA products. The resulting constructs were introduced into onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells using a helium biolistic particle delivery system (Bio-Rad) as described by CITATION. After incubation for 12 to 48 h at 23°C, the subcellular distribution of the GFP fusion proteins was examined with a fluorescence microscope (Olympus BX-51TRF). The full-length coding region of GLIP1 was cloned into the pGEX 6P-1 vector (Amersham Biosciences). The GLIP1(S44A) mutant was generated by mutagenic PCR using the following primers with one mismatch (lowercase): for sense, 5′-TCGTGTTTGGAGATgCTGTGTTCGATGCTGGA-3′; for antisense, 5′-TCCAGCATCGAACACAGcATCTCCAAACACGA-3′. Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) cells transformed with constructs were cultured, and the expression of the recombinant proteins was induced by the addition of 0.1 mM isopropyl β-d-thiogalactopyranoside for 30 min. The GST-GLIP1 fusion proteins were purified according to the manufacturer's instructions, dialyzed against PBS, and stored at −70°C before use. Lipase activity was measured as described (CITATION). The enzyme reaction mixture contained 0.5 M HEPES, pH 6.5, 1 mM substrate (p-nitrophenyl acetate or p-nitrophenyl butyrate), and aliquots of recombinant proteins (2 to 4 μg) and was incubated for 60 min at 30°C. Absorbance was measured at 405 nm every 5 min for 60 min. The lesions and fungal hyphae were visualized by staining the infected leaves according to a previously described method (CITATION). Leaves detached 4 d after inoculation were stained with lactophenol–aniline blue. Lactophenol was prepared by mixing phenol, acetic acid, distilled water, and glycerol at a ratio of 1:1:1:2. Aniline blue (0.1%) and lactophenol were then mixed at a ratio of 1:3. Cell death was detected by lactophenol–trypan blue staining followed by destaining in saturated chloral hydrate as described (CITATION). Stained samples were mounted in 60% glycerol and examined using a light microscope (Olympus BX-51TRF). The antimicrobial activity of GLIP1 was determined by adding the recombinant proteins (0.1 to 5 μg) to 10 μL of spore suspension (5 × 105 spores/mL). The samples were placed on glass slides, incubated for 24 h at 23°C, and observed by light microscopy. Fungi samples were prepared for scanning electron microscopy by fixation in fixing solution (0.1 M sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, 1% sucrose, 3% paraformaldehyde, and 0.2% glutaraldehyde) under vacuum for 6 h, dehydration through a graded ethanol series, and critical point drying. The samples were sputter-coated with gold and viewed using a S-2500 scanning electron microscope (Hitachi). Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus numbers for the genes described in this work are as follows: GLIP1 (At5g40990), GLIP2 (At1g53940), GLIP3 (At1g53990), GLIP4 (At3g14225), GLIP5 (At1g53920), GLIP6 (At1g71120), and GLIP7 (At5g15720). Other accession numbers are listed in Table 2.
