!~ABS~! Plastids arise by division from pre-existing organelles, and with the recent characterization of several new components of plastid division our understanding of the division process in higher plants has improved dramatically. However, it is still not known how these different protein components act together during division. Here we analyse protein–protein interactions between all known stromal plastid division proteins. Using a combination of quantitative yeast two-hybrid assays, in planta co-localization studies, fluorescence resonance energy transfer and bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays we show that these proteins do not act in isolation but rather in protein complexes to govern appropriate plastid division. We have previously shown that AtMinD1 forms functional homodimers and we show here that in addition to homodimerization AtMinD1 also interacts with AtMinE1. Furthermore, AtMinE1 has the ability to homodimerize. We also demonstrate that proteins from both FtsZ families (AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1) not only interact with themselves but also with each other, and we show that these interactions are not dependent on correct Z-ring formation. Further to this we demonstrate that ARC6 specifically interacts with the core domain of AtFtsZ2-1, but not with AtFtsZ1-1, providing in planta evidence for a functional difference between the two FtsZ protein families in plants. Our studies have enabled us to construct a meaningful intraplastidic protein–protein interaction map of all known stromal plastid division proteins in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! The misplacement of the chloroplast division site in transgenic Arabidopsis plants with altered levels of AtMinE1 and AtMinD1 (CITATION; CITATION) suggests that both proteins are involved in the correct placement of the plastid division machinery. To gain further insights into how the Min proteins in Arabidopsis might act together during plastid division, we sought evidence for physical interactions between AtMinD1 and AtMinE1 using a yeast two-hybrid assay (Figure 1a). Full-length AtMinE1 and AtMinD1 cDNAs were fused to the C-terminus of the Gal4 activation domain (AD) and the Gal4 DNA-binding domain (BD), to generate AD-E, AD-D, BD-E and BD-D and co-expressed in yeast HF7c cells. As a marker for protein–protein interactions we made use of the ability of HF7c to only grow in the absence of histidine upon positive protein–protein interactions. As previously shown (CITATION), we found that His auxotrophy was restored in yeast cells co-transformed with both AD-D and BD-D, demonstrating that AtMinD1 can form homodimers (Figure 1a). Furthermore, we found that AtMinE1 can not only form homodimers in yeast cells but that AtMinE1 also interacts with AtMinD1, suggesting the presence of an AtMinD1/AtMinE1 protein complex in Arabidopsis plastids (Figure 1a and Table S2). [[FIGURE]] The interactions between the Min proteins in yeast appear to be relatively weak and/or transient. In order to confirm the visual interactions in yeast we measured, using a spectrophotometer, the level of yeast growth on synthetic dropout (SD) media lacking tryptophan and leucine (SD/–TL) and SD media lacking tryptophan, leucine and histidine (SD/–HTL) after 3 days’ incubation at 30°C. The ratio of growth on SD/–TL and SD/–HTL was calculated and the differences found to be statistically significant between the control strains and the yeast containing interacting protein pairs (Figure 1a). The difference in growth is more striking after 5–6 days, but to allow us to compare the interactions between the Min proteins and other plastid division components (see later sections) we chose a 3-day time point as yeast cells containing stronger interaction proteins appear to saturate. We further tested whether AtMinE1 or AtMinD1 interacts with the Arabidopsis plastid division proteins AtFtsZ1-1, AtFtsZ2-1 and GC1. We generated BD and AD constructs containing AtFtsZ1-1, AtFtsZ2-1 and GC1 (BD-F1, BD-F2, BD-GC1, AD-F1, AD-F2 and AD-GC1) and HF7c yeast cells were co-transformed with these constructs together with AD, AD-E or AD-D and BD, BD-E or BD-D. Analysis on low-stringency growth media (no. 3-AT) detected no restoration of His auxotrophy (Table S2). These experiments were repeated using truncated fusion proteins lacking the predicted transit peptides as it was reasoned that the cleavable transit peptide region may interfere with potential interactions. No significant difference in the strength of interactions between the Min proteins was observed and again no restoration of His auxotrophy was observed when the Min proteins were in combination with AtFtsZ1-1, AtFtsZ2-1 and GC1 (data not shown). These findings suggest that the Min proteins in Arabidopsis do not interact with AtFtsZ1-1, AtFtsZ2-1, or GC1. To further verify the yeast two-hybrid assay results we analysed whether the Min proteins could co-localize in chloroplasts. We constructed vectors expressing AtMinE1 or AtMinD1 as a fusion to both yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) (E-YFP and D-YFP) and cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) (E-CFP and D-CFP) and transiently expressed these in tobacco leaf cells. Tobacco was chosen as a system for studying protein interactions as it is amenable to biolistic transformation and several studies have shown that Arabidopsis chloroplast division proteins can function in tobacco (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As in Arabidopsis (CITATION), both AtMinE1 and AtMinD1 showed specific intraplastidic localization patterns, forming one or two discrete spots within chloroplasts (Figure 1b). In cells expressing both D-YFP and D-CFP fluorescence was detected as one (55%) or two (30%) co-localized spot(s) inside the chloroplast. In other cases aggregates were observed, possibly due to high levels of the fusion proteins. E-YFP and E-CFP florescence was detected as either a single spot at one end of chloroplasts or as two spots in close proximity to the membrane. D-YFP and E-CFP fusions were also observed to tightly co-localize: in 65% of chloroplasts expressing both fusion proteins single spots in close proximity to the membrane were observed, whilst the remaining 35% showed the presence of two spots (60% opposite poles, 40% same pole) (data not shown). Because co-localization does not prove physical interaction between proteins we used FRET to ascertain whether the Min proteins showed interactions within living chloroplasts. FRET is based on energy transfer from an excited donor (CFP) to a neighbouring acceptor (YFP) by dipole–dipole interaction. FRET is dependent on the proximity of the donor to the acceptor and is therefore used to determine if two different proteins tagged with either a donor or acceptor fluorophore are in close association (CITATION). AtMinD1 has previously been shown to form dimers using FRET assays in living plant cells (CITATION) and was used here as a positive control (Figure 1b). AtMinE1 dimerization was also confirmed using FRET, as in cells expressing E-CFP and E-YFP a discrete FRET signal was generated corresponding to the spots of AtMinE1 localization (Figure 1b). In cell expressing D-CFP and E-YFP (Figure 1b) or E-CFP and D-YFP (data not shown) a FRET signal was generated in one or two discrete regions corresponding to the spots of Min proteins in the chloroplasts, demonstrating that AtMinE1 and AtMinD1 can form heterodimers. BiFC assays were performed to further analyse the interactions between the Min proteins (CITATION). This approach is based on the reconstitution of YFP fluorescence when non-fluorescent N-terminal (NY) and C-terminal (CY) YFP fragments are brought together by two interacting proteins fused to NY and CY. We divided YFP into two fragments as previously described (CITATION; see Experimental procedures) and fused these to the C-terminal ends of AtMinE1 or AtMinD1 to generate E-NY, E-CY, D-NY and D-CY. In cells expressing E-NY and E-CY, D-NY and E-CY or D-NY and D-CY YFP florescence indistinguishable from that observed when AtMinE1 or AtMinD1 is fused to the full length YPF was observed (Figure 1c) firmly establishing that the Min proteins can interact in planta. In Arabidopsis immunofluorescence microscopy has shown that FtsZ proteins from both families form a ring-like structure at the plastid midpoint, although it is unclear whether FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 rings are components of identical or different structures (CITATION; CITATION). In light of this we used the yeast two-hybrid assay to investigate interactions between AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1. HF7c cells were co-transformed with AD-F1, AD-F2, BD-F1 and BD-F2 vectors in all possible combinations and with the AD and BD empty control vectors. We found that both AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1 are capable of forming homodimers, and that AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1 are able to interact with each other (Figure 2a and Table S2). Quantitative analysis revealed no significant differences between the strength of interactions between the various interacting FtsZ protein pairs, although compared with the Min proteins (Figure 1a) these interactions are significantly stronger suggesting a less transient nature. [[FIGURE]] Double immunofluorescence labelling experiments in leaf sections have revealed co-localization of AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1 proteins even when their levels and assembly patterns are perturbed (CITATION; CITATION). To confirm these results we constructed vectors containing AtFtsZ1-1 or AtFtsZ2-1 fused to YFP (F1-YFP and F2-YFP) or CFP (F1-CFP and F2-CFP) and transiently expressed these in tobacco leaf cells. In all cells expressing the FtsZ fusions in all combinations, the FtsZ proteins were always observed as tightly co-localized structures (Figure 3a,b). Only non-constricted chloroplasts were observed in these experiments and in 60–70% of chloroplasts the FtsZ proteins assembled into clear Z-rings. In the remaining 30–40% of chloroplasts long filaments, wheel-like structures and spots were observed, representing an artefact of FtsZ overexpression as previously observed in leaf sections (CITATION) (Figure 3a,b). Additionally small ‘mini-circles’ (white arrow heads) were observed in a small percentage of chloroplasts (Figure 3a,b). [[FIGURE]] In order to confirm that the FtsZ proteins could interact in living plant cells we utilized the FRET assay. In cells expressing F1-CFP and F1-YFP, or F2-CFP and F2-YFP a FRET signal was generated as a clear ring-like structure, demonstrating that both FtsZ proteins can form homodimers in planta (Figure 2b). The expression of F1-CFP and F2-YFP or F2-CFP and F1-YFP also yielded a positive FRET result (Figure 2b), confirming that the FtsZ proteins can interact with each other. The interaction of the FtsZ proteins when their localization pattern is perturbed was also confirmed using FRET, with cells in which F1-CFP and F2-YFP localize as a complex network of filaments generating a clear FRET signal (Figure 3c). To further verify the interactions between the FtsZ proteins in plant cells we utilized the BiFC assay (CITATION). The NY and CY fragments of YFP were fused to the C-terminal ends of AtFtsZ1-1 or AtFtsZ2-1 to generate F1-NY, F2-NY, F1-CY and F2-CY. In cells expressing both F1-NY and F1-CY or both F2-NY and F2-CY, rings of YFP fluorescence indistinguishable from those observed when the FtsZ proteins are fused to full-length YPF protein was observed (Figure 2c), demonstrating that both AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1 can homodimerize in chloroplasts. Similarly, interaction between AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1 was confirmed, as co-expression of F1-NY and F2-CY or F2-NY and F1-CY resulted in clear ring formation within chloroplasts (Figure 2c). In order to determine which AtFtsZ1-1 domains mediate homodimerization and heterodimerization with AtFtsZ2-1 we constructed a series of seven N-terminal and C-terminal AtFtsZ1-1 truncated proteins fused to the BD (Figure 4). Quantitative yeast two-hybrid assays revealed that amino acids 1–143 and 303–434 of AtFtsZ1-1 are dispensable for the interaction of AtFtsZ1-1 with both itself and AtFtsZ2-1 (Figure 4). [[FIGURE]] The ARC6 protein contains a transmembrane domain, and it has been shown that only the N-terminal domain extends into the chloroplast stroma, whilst the C-terminal resides in the intermembrane space (CITATION). For the interaction studies we chose to amplify the stromal domain (amino acids 1–614) and fuse this to the AD and BD to generate AD-ARC6 and BD-ARC6. Initial experiments showed that ARC6 fused to the BD strongly autoactivated the histidine reporter gene in HF7c yeast cells (data not shown). Consequently, we used BiFC assays in order to analyse the potential of ARC6 to interact with itself. The full-length ARC6 cDNA was amplified and fused to the NY and CY fragments of YFP as C-terminal fusions to generate ARC6-NY and ARC6-CY. In most cases when ARC6-NY and ARC6-CY were transiently expressed in tobacco cells discontinuous speckled ring-like structures were observed (Figure 5b) and in other cells less organized patterns of speckles were observed (data not shown), indicating that ARC6 can interact with itself. [[FIGURE]] Little data exists to show how ARC6 fits into the network of plastid division components and we therefore undertook to analyse potential interactions between the ARC6 protein and all known stromal plastid division components using the yeast two-hybrid system. HF7c cells were co-transformed with AD-ARC6 and BD, BD-E, BD-D, BD-F1, BD-F2 or BD-GC1 constructs and interactions tested for on low-stringency media. Only one positive interaction was detected, and interestingly it was found that ARC6 can interact with AtFtsZ2-1 but not with AtFtsZ1-1 (Figure 5a). Quantitative assessment found that the interaction between ARC6 and AtFtsZ2-1 is of comparable strength to the interactions between the FtsZ proteins (Figure 2a). ARC6 encodes an 810-amino-acid protein containing regions of homology to Ftn2 (conserved domain) and an N-terminal J-domain motif characteristic of DNAJ chaperones (CITATION). In order to investigate the interaction between ARC6 and AtFtsZ2-1 further, the conserved domain of ARC6 was amplified with (amino acids 89–509) or without (amino acids 154–509) the J-domain motif, and fused to the AD to generate AD-ARC6CON and AD-ARC6ΔJ respectively. HF7c cells were co-transformed with these constructs and BD, BD-F1 or BD-F2 and interactions tested for on low-stringency media. As expected, no interactions were detected between AtFtsZ1-1 and the ARC6 domains; however, a strong interaction was detected between AtFtsZ2-1 and the conserved domain of ARC6 and this interaction was not dependent on the presence of the J-domain (Figure 4). To analyse the co-localization of ARC6 with AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1, an ARC6–YFP fusion was co-expressed with either F1-CFP or F2-CFP. We found that transient expression of ARC6 and AtFtsZ2-1 fusions showed tight co-localization. In 70% of chloroplasts expressing both ARC6-YFP and F2-CFP fusions, clear rings were observed associated with the membrane. In all other chloroplasts tight co-localization was observed in spots or very short filaments (data not shown) distinct from those filaments observed when the FtsZ proteins co-localize (Figure 3). ARC6 was also observed to co-localize with AtFtsZ1-1 (data not shown), mostly as short filaments, and this is possibly due to AtFtsZ2-1 acting as a ‘molecular bridge’ between ARC6 and AtFtsZ1-1. We used BiFC assays to further analyse the specific interaction between ARC6 and AtFtsZ2-1: ARC6-NY was transiently co-expressed in tobacco leaf cells with either F1-CY or F2-CY. In cells expressing ARC6-NY and F1-CY no detectable fluorescence was observed (data not shown); however, in cells expressing ARC6-NY and F2-CY speckles of fluorescence were observed in ring-like structures, similar to that when ARC6-NY and ARC6-CY are co-expressed (Figure 5b). The same pattern of fluorescence was observed when F2-NY and ARC6-CY were co-expressed in tobacco leaf cells (Figure 5b). Although FtsZ proteins in Arabidopsis show remarkable similarity at the amino acid level our data demonstrate a functional difference between the FtsZ protein families in terms of ARC6 interactions. We speculated that this difference could be due to the presence of a short C-terminal conserved peptide in AtFtsZ2-1 which is absent in AtFtsZ1-1. This peptide region is present in all prokaryotic FtsZ proteins and is known as the core domain (CITATION). To investigate this we constructed a truncated version of AtFtsZ2-1 lacking the C-terminal core domain (BD-F2ΔCore). Quantitative assessment of the interaction between BD-F2ΔCore and either AD, AD-F1 or AD-F2 in HF7c yeast cells clearly showed that deletion of the core domain had no effect on the interaction of AtFtsZ2-1 with AtFtsZ1-1 or AtFtsZ2-1 (Figure 4). In sharp contrast, BD-F2ΔCore was unable to interact with AD-ARC6, demonstrating that ARC6 interacts with AtFtsZ2-1 through its conserved core domain (Figure 4). To analyse this interaction further we generated a point mutation in the core domain of AtFtsZ2-1, changing phenylalanine at position 466 to alanine (BD-F2F466A). Detailed analysis demonstrated that BD-F2F466A can interact with AD-F1 and AD-F2 with a similar strength to the wild-type AtFtsZ2-1 protein, indicating, in correlation with the results obtained with BD-F2ΔCore, that this region is not involved in the interaction with the FtsZ proteins and moreover that the mutation does not introduce gross structural changes to the AtFtsZ2-1 protein. Interestingly, co-expression of BD-F2F466A with AD-ARC6 in HF7c yeast cells did not restore the growth in the absence of histidine, indicating that phenylalanine 466 might directly interact with ARC6 (Figure 4). Although further studies are required to investigate the importance of the specific interaction between AtFtsZ2-1 and ARC6, we believe this to be a significant advance in understanding the roles of both ARC6 and the two families of FtsZ proteins in Arabidopsis.
!~MM~! Nicotiana tabacum cv. Samsun was used for all experiments. Surface-sterilized seeds were sown on MS medium, placed at 4°C in darkness for 2–4 days followed by germination under continuous white light at 22°C. Seedlings were then transferred to soil and grown under standard greenhouse conditions. All vectors used in the study are listed in Table 1. A full-length cDNA (U19395) for ARC6 was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (http://www.biosci.ohio-state.edu/~plantbio/Facilities/abrc/abrchome.htm) and was subject to DNA sequencing. Full-length cDNAs for AtMinE1, AtMinD1 (CITATION), AtFtsZ1-1, AtFtsZ2-1 and GC1 (CITATION) have been previously generated in our laboratory. The plasmids pGADT7 and pGBKT7 encoding the Gal4 AD and the Gal4 DNA-BD, respectively, were used for protein–protein interaction studies in vivo (MATCHMAKER Two-Hybrid System, version 3, Clontech Laboratories, Palo Alto, CA, USA). The generation of AD-E, AD-D, AD-F1, AD-F2, AD-GC1, BD-GC1 (CITATION) and BD-D (CITATION) has been described previously. Unless stated, all other constructs were generated with the primers listed in Table S1: cDNAs were amplified with the appropriate primer pairs, the PCR products were then cloned into pCRScript (Stratagene, Amsterdam, The Netherlands) before digestion with either NdeI and BamHI (AtMinE1, AtMinD1, AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1), NdeI and SalI (GC1) or NdeI and XmaI (ARC6) and ligated into pGADT7 and pGBKT7 as required. ChloroP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP/) was used to predict the transit peptide cleavage sites for all of the proteins and primers designed to amplify truncated cDNAs lacking the transit peptide sequence. To generate BD-F11--144 and BD-F11--204, BD-F1 was digested with PstI or BglII and BamHI respectively and the backbone fragments re-ligated. BD-F11--255 and BD-F11--302 were generated by digesting BD-F1 with NdeI and RsaI or NdeI and PvuII respectively and ligating the insert into the NdeI and SmaI sites of pGBKT7. Yeast HF7c cells were co-transformed with the resulting plasmids according to the manufacturer's instructions (Clontech). After 3–5 days of incubation at 30°C two single colonies were inoculated in synthetic dropout (SD) media lacking leucine and tryptophan (SD/–TL) and grown at 30°C in a shaking incubator for one night. Cultures were grown to OD600 of 1.0 and 5 μl of culture spotted onto SD/–TL plates or plates lacking leucine, tryptophan and histidine (SD/–HTL) to monitor HIS3 reporter expression by cell growth. Plates were incubated at 30°C for 3 days, and images were captured before each spot was resuspended in SD/–HTL media and the OD600 measured. The ratio of growth on SD/–TL and SD/–HLT was calculated for six individual pairs of spots and the average and standard deviation of these ratios calculated. The vectors pWEN18 and pWEN15 have been described previously (CITATION). For BiFC analysis the YFP was split into two fragments as previously described (CITATION): primers were designed to amplify an N-terminal fragment (NY) consisting of amino acids 1–154, and a C-terminal fragment (CY) consisting of amino acids 155–238 with a 10-amino-acid (Gly10) linker sequence at the N-terminus (Table S1). These fragments were digested with KpnI and NotI and cloned into the same sites of pWEN18 to generate pWEN-NY and pWEN-CY, thus allowing the expression of N-terminal fusions of genes to NY and CY in plants, under the CaMV 35S promoter. The construction of D-YFP and D-CFP (CITATION) has been described previously. All cDNAs were cloned into pWEN18, pWEN15 pWEN-NY and pWEN-CY in the same way: full-length coding sequences of AtMinE1, AtMinD1, AtFtsZ1-1, AtFtsZ2-1 and ARC6 were PCR amplified from the cDNAs in pCRScript using the primer pairs listed in Table S1. The PCR fragments were then cloned into pCRScript (Stratagene) before digestion with either XhoI and KpnI (AtMinE1, AtMinD1, AtFtsZ1-1 and AtFtsZ2-1) or SalI and KpnI (ARC6) and ligated into the XhoI and KpnI sites of pWEN18, pWEN15, pWEN-CY or pWEN-NY as N-terminal fusions. The resulting constructs were transfected into tobacco leaves by particle bombardment (CITATION). Fluorescence analysis was performed on a Nikon TE-2000U inverted fluorescence microscope equipped with a Hamamatsu Orca ER 1394 cooled CCD camera, an Exfo X-cite 120 fluorescence illumination system and filters for CFP (exciter S436/10, emitter S470/30) and YFP (exciter HQ500/20, emitter S535/30) (Chroma Technologies, Rockingham, VT, USA). For microscopic studies the indicated plasmids were co-bombarded into tobacco leaf cells (CITATION). For BiFC assays samples were analysed 48 h after bombardment. All combinations were repeated in triplicate and relevant controls of the NY and CY fragments in combination with cDNAs fused to NY or CY were carried out at the same time. Expression of the NY and CY fragments alone or in combination with cDNA-fused NY or CY did not produce detectable fluorescence (data not shown). For FRET experiments samples were analysed 24–48 h after bombardment. Cells with similar levels of intensity of CFP and YFP were selected and acquisition times were in the range of 300–1000 ms. Fluorescence images were background corrected and all calculations were performed using Openlab software (Improvision, Coventry, UK). FRET signals were false coloured using the red pallet.
