!~ABS~! Recent genetic and biochemical studies have revealed the existence in plants of a fourth RNA polymerase, RNAPIV, which mediates siRNA accumulation and DNA methylation-dependent silencing of endogenous repeated sequences. Here, we show that Arabidopsis expresses, in fact, two evolutionarily related forms of RNAPIV, hereafter referred to as RNAPIVa and RNAPIVb. These two forms contain the same second-largest subunit (NRPD2), but differ at least by their largest subunit, termed NRPD1a and NRPD1b. Unlike NRPD1a, NRPD1b possesses a reiterated CTD, a feature that also characterizes the largest subunit of RNAPII. Our data indicate that RNAPIVb is the most abundant form of RNAPIV in Arabidopsis. Selective disruption of either form of RNAPIV indicates that RNAPIVa-dependent siRNA accumulation is not sufficient per se to drive robust silencing at endogenous loci and that high levels of DNA methylation and silencing depend on siRNA that are accumulated through a pathway involving the concerted action of both RNAPIV forms. Taken together, our results imply the existence of a novel two-step mechanism in siRNA synthesis at highly methylated loci, with RNAPIVb being an essential component of a self-reinforcing loop coupling de novo DNA methylation to siRNA production. 
!~RES~! We have initiated the molecular characterization and the functional analysis of the class IV largest and second-largest subunit genes present in the Arabidopsis genome, namely, At1g63020, At2g40030, and At3g23780, At3g18090. Using a combination of PCRs and cDNA library screens, full-length cDNA sequences were obtained for these genes, indicating that they are all transcribed in Arabidopsis. The corresponding cDNA sequences have been deposited in the GenBank database and recently renamed according to the revised nomenclature (Herr et al. 2005; Onodera et al. 2005) as AtNRPD1a (accession number AY826515), AtNRPD1b (AY826516), and AtNRPD2a (AY935711), AtNRPD2b (AY935712) (Fig. 1A; Supplementary Figs. S1A, S2A). While producing a full-length RNA with the same exon boundaries as NRPD2a, NRPD2b is unlikely to encode a functional protein due to a premature stop codon in the first coding exon of the full-length cDNA, and it is therefore likely to be an expressed pseudogene (Supplementary Fig. S2B). Accordingly, we refer to the 1172-amino-acid product of the NRPD2a gene as NRPD2. NRPD1a and NRPD2 correspond to the largest and second-largest subunits of the recently identified RNAPIV enzyme (Herr et al. 2005; Onodera et al. 2005). Comparison of the full-length cDNA sequence of AtNRPD1b with that of the genome sequence revealed that it spans, in fact, the two misannotated genes At2g40030 and At2g40040 (Fig. 1A). Thus, AtNRPD1b contains 17 exons and encodes a 1976-amino-acid polypeptide with a molecular mass of 235 kDa (AtNRPD1b) (Fig. 1A). RT–PCR analysis indicates that AtNRPD1b as well as AtNRPD1a are expressed in all tissues tested (Supplementary Fig. S1B).  As outlined in Figure 1A, AtNRPD1b presents sequence similarities to AtRPB1 and AtNRPD1a in the evolutionary conserved regions A through H that are conserved between all known largest RNAP subunits. Except for the B and C regions, AtNRPD1a and AtNRPD1b proteins are more similar to each other than to AtRPB1, suggesting that they originate from a common ancestor (Fig. 1A; Supplementary Fig. S3A). Of note, region G is located near the conserved region F in both AtNRPD1a and b, which suggests that these two proteins are missing the structural element known as the foot domain in the RNAPII structure (Cramer et al. 2001). Library screening and database searches indicate that NRPD1b genes are also present in other plants, including rice (OsNRPD1b; OsAP004365.3) and spinach (SoNRPD1b; accession number AY826517). As expected for bona fide orthologs, these proteins share a significant level of sequence identity throughout their RPB1-like region, with values ranging from 55% to 84% (Fig. 1A). A striking difference between NRPD1s and the other large subunits of RNAP is the amino acid substitutions observed at the first position (for the NRPD1b proteins) and at the first two positions (for the NRPD1a proteins) of the invariant NADFDGD motif found in the conserved region D (Supplementary Fig. S3B). Although these two positions are not directly engaged in the coordination of the Mg2+ ions that participate in catalysis and can tolerate conservative substitutions (Dieci et al. 1995), the structure of the RNAPII elongation complex has recently suggested a possible role for the first residue N in the specificity for ribo-rather than deoxyribonucleotide (Gnatt et al. 2001). Whether the amino acid substitutions found at this position in NRPD1a and NRPD1b are indicative of a more relaxed specificity of the RNAPIV enzyme(s) toward the nucleotide substrate or reveal a more specific adaptation to novel function remains to be determined. Beside the overall sequence conservation, AtNRPD1b presents several features that make it a likely component of a functional multimeric RNAP, as was previously shown for AtNRPD1a (Herr et al. 2005): All the invariant aspartate residues known to be directly involved in the catalytic activity are conserved (Fig. 1A), and the zinc-binding motifs (cc) that are critical for the assembly of the largest and second-largest subunits are maintained (Fig. 1A). When compared with yeast RNAPII, AtNRPD1b and AtNRPD2 (which compose RNAPIVb [see below]) present blocks of sequence homology that cluster around the active center of the enzyme (Fig. 1B, green panel) in a way that is similar to bacterial RNA polymerase (Fig. 1B, orange panel). This suggests the conservation of an RNA polymerase core structure in RNAPIVb.  [[FIGURE]] Compared with NRPD1a, NRPD1b shows an additional feature: namely the presence of a long CTD that extends beyond the DCL-like motif (defective chloroplast and leaves) and comprises a highly hydrophilic domain including 10 complete repeats of a 16-amino-acid consensus sequence with multiple potential phosphorylation sites (Fig. 1C,D). This latter arrangement is reminiscent of the reiterations that characterize the CTD of RPB1 (Corden 1990; Young 1991) and was also found in rice and spinach NRPD1b, although the number of reiterations and the primary sequence of the repeat motifs appear specific to each species (data not shown).  The identification of two functional NRPD1 genes and one functional NRPD2 gene raised the question of the exact nature of RNAPIV(s) in Arabidopsis. To address this question, we raised specific antibodies against NRPD1a, NRPD1b, and NRPD2 proteins, and we characterized several Arabidopsis lines (Alonso et al. 2003) containing the T-DNA-disrupted mutant alleles nrpd1a-1 (1a-1), nrpd1a-2 (1a-2), nrpd1b-1 (1b-1), nrpd1b-2 (1b-2), nrpd2a-1 (2a-1), nrpd2a-2 (2a-2), and nrpd2b-1 (2b-1) (Fig. 1A; Supplementary Figs. S1A, S2A). Plants homozygous for these mutant alleles were identified by PCR analysis of segregating families and were used as controls in Western blot experiments. In wild-type extracts, proteins with an apparent mass identical to the predicted molecular sizes of NRPD1b (≈250 kDa), NRPD1a (≈150 kDa), and NRPD2 (≈135 kDa) were specifically detected as judged by the absence of signal in corresponding KO insertion lines (Supplementary Figs. S1C, S2C). This analysis also shows that the AtNRPD2b gene does not contribute to NRPD2 protein accumulation, in agreement with the cDNA sequence data (Supplementary Figs. S2B, S2C). Finally, Western analysis of fractions corresponding to total leaf extracts or highly purified nuclei and chloroplasts indicated that, as expected for eukaryotic-type RNAP subunits, NRPD1a and NRPD1b proteins are specifically detected in nuclei (Fig. 2A). NRPD2 was also found in the nucleus (Fig. 2A), consistent with immunolocalization experiments (Onodera et al. 2005). Analysis of the accumulation of these proteins in various plant organs also reveals a very abundant accumulation of the NRPD1a and NRPD1b proteins in flowers compared with leaves (Fig. 2B).  [[FIGURE]] Multisubunit RNAP holoenzymes are high-molecular-weight protein complexes (Cramer et al. 2001). To test whether NRPD1a and NRPD1b are also part of large complexes in vivo, flower extracts were size-fractionated by sephacryl S-300HR gel filtration chromatography, and the resulting fractions were analyzed for the presence of NRPD1a and NRPD1b by Western blot. As shown in Figure 2C, both proteins were eluted close to the void volume, therefore indicating that they are present exclusively as complexed forms in vivo. The average molecular masses of the NRPD1a/b-containing complexes are close to 1 MDa, a typical size for nuclear RNAP holoenzymes (Greenblatt 1997).  To determine if NRPD1a, NRPD1b and NRPD2 are part of one or several multisubunit RNAP complexes, we analyzed the costability of these proteins in vivo using different null mutant backgrounds. The level of NRPD1b was strongly reduced in nrpd2a-1 mutant extract, indicating that NRPD2 is required to stabilize NRPD1b (Fig. 2D, left panel). In contrast, NRPD1a accumulation was unaffected by the absence of NRPD2, which suggests that NRPD1a is either stable as a subcomplex in the mutant extract or that it does not form a tight complex with NRPD2 in vivo. In order to extend this analysis, NRPD2 protein stability was assessed in nrpd1a-1, nrpd1b-1, and nrpd1a-1/nrpd1b-1 mutant plants. These experiments confirmed that NRPD1b stabilizes NRPD2, as most of the NRPD2 signal disappeared in nrpd1b-1 mutant plants (Fig. 2D, right panel). While a weak NRPD2 signal was reproducibly observed in this background, no NRPD2 could be detected in nrpd1a-1/nrpd1b-1 double-mutant plants (Fig. 2D, right panel), thus suggesting that a minor fraction of NRPD2 is complexed with NRPD1a. Taken together, our results are consistent with most of NRPD2 being engaged in a complex with NRPD1b, therefore defining a bona fide novel RNAPIV form in Arabidopsis thaliana. We refer to this novel RNA polymerase complex as RNAPIVb and renamed the RNAPIV form harboring NRPD1a as RNAPIVa.  [[FIGURE]] To investigate the functional role of the RNAPIVa and RNAPIVb complexes in vivo, two independent nrpd1a and nrpd1b homozygous mutant lines were further characterized. To rule out any possible functional redundancy of NRPD1a and NRPD1b, we also generated double homozygous lines for nrpd1a-1/nrpd1b-1 and nrpd1a-1/nrpd1b-2 alleles. None of the mutant alleles showed readily discernable morphological changes other than a nonadditive delay in flowering that was more pronounced when plants were grown under short days compared with long days (Fig. 3A).  In order to understand the molecular basis of this phenotype, we analyzed several candidate genes whose expression is known to delay flowering time under both light conditions. While the regulation of most genes analyzed was not affected, as exemplified by the floral gene regulator FLC, all independent mutants showed significant expression of the imprinted FWA gene, whose ectopic expression has been shown to induce a late flowering phenotype in Arabidopsis (Fig. 3B, see panels FLC and FWA; Soppe et al. 2000). Consistent with the ectopic activation of FWA, we found that the long tandem repeat that encompasses the FWA promoter and the first two untranslated exons is transcriptionally active in all mutants analyzed (Fig. 3B, panel FWA tr; Lippman et al. 2004). The promoter region of FWA in wild-type plants has been shown to be methylated in all sequence contexts (CG, CNG, and CNN) within the two direct repeats region, causing FWA to be silenced (Soppe et al. 2000). In this regard, FWA activation in our mutants suggested a possible loss of cytosine methylation and consequent heterochromatin disruption. To determine if nrpd1a and nrpd1b mutant alleles affect FWA cytosine methylation, DNA methylation assays using methyl-sensitive restriction enzymes and PCR amplification were performed on the FWA tandem repeats region in genomic DNA extracted from wild type and nrpd1 mutants. If the enzyme site is methylated, the DNA is not cut and can therefore be amplified by PCR, whereas demethylation of the site will allow DNA digestion and preclude PCR amplification due to restriction of the DNA. While no difference in CG methylation level (as judged by the use of the HhaI enzyme, which does not recognize GCGC motifs specifically methylated on the inner C) was observed in nrpd1 mutants, a strong reduction of CNN methylation (as judged by the use of AvaII enzyme, which is blocked by methylation of the outer C of the recognition motif GGTCC) was observed in all mutants (Fig. 3C). Taken together, our results indicate that while they retain pre-existing CG methylation at the endogenous FWA locus, nrpd1 mutants are blocked in the perpetuation of CNN methylation, an effect that would probably account for the transcriptional activation of this gene. Based on the effects of mutations on flowering delay, FWA transcript accumulation, and DNA cytosine methylation, our results are consistent with a nonadditive effect of both mutations, suggesting that both proteins act in the same regulatory pathway leading to de novo methylation at the FWA locus.  To determine if nrpd1 mutants have a more general effect on the methylation of repeated endogenous DNA, we tested the methylation status at retrotransposon AtSN1 and the 5S rDNA cluster, two repeated loci that are extensively methylated in all sequence contexts (CG, CNG, and CNN) (Hamilton et al. 2002; Zilberman et al. 2003; Xie et al. 2004). In wild-type plants, the AtSN1 retroelement is resistant to cleavage by the methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme HaeIII, whereas a strong reduction of CNN methylation is observed in the mutants (Fig. 4A). This result was confirmed and extended by quantitative PCR analysis of genomic DNA digested with the methylation-dependent enzyme McrBC (Lippman et al. 2003), which confirms a nonadditive effect of the mutations (Fig. 4C; see Materials and Methods). As for the 5S rDNA intergenic spacers, HpaII and MspI digestions indicated again a loss of methylation in both CG and CNG sequence contexts in mutant plants (Fig. 4B). Comparison of the single to the double mutant showed a similar sensitivity to HpaII and MspI. This result was confirmed by quantitative PCR analysis of genomic DNA digested with the methylation-dependent enzyme McrBC with no apparent additive effect in this case (Fig. 4C). That both RNAPIV forms act in a nonredundant manner to direct methylation at 5S rDNA was further supported by the observation that the extent of methylation loss in the nrpd2a-1 mutant (which likely harbors no functional RNAPIV forms because of NRPD2 depletion) is similar to that seen in nrpd1a and nrpd1b single mutants (Supplementary Fig. S2D).  [[FIGURE]] Silencing and DNA methylation at FWA, AtSN1, and 5S gene clusters are associated with siRNAs (Hamilton et al. 2002; Zilberman et al. 2003; Lippman et al. 2004; Xie et al. 2004), which prompted us to examine the involvement of RNAPIVa and RNAPIVb in their accumulation. We found that the 24-nt siRNAs corresponding to FWA and AtSN1 retrotransposons were absent in nrpd1 single- and double-mutant alleles (Fig. 5A), which is consistent with a nonredundant role of RNAPIVa and RNAPIVb in the production of endogenous siRNAs. Likewise, siRNAs corresponding to 5S rDNA (siRNA1003) were also greatly reduced down to a level that reveals a 21-nt nonspecific band also observed in the rdr2-1 mutant control (Fig. 5A, left and right panels). This was in sharp contrast to miR-159 accumulation, which remained unchanged in the various mutants (Fig. 5A). Thus, RNAPIVa and RNAPIVb appear to be nonredundant components of a pathway that generates endogenous siRNAs that guide DNA methylation at transposons and highly repeated endogenous sequences.  [[FIGURE]] To test if the requirement of both RNAPIV forms for endogenous siRNA formation was general, we tested three additional endogenous loci present in few copies in the genome and that are associated with detectable levels of siRNAs: siRNA02, cluster 2, and TR2558 loci (Lippman et al. 2004; Xie et al. 2004). Whereas siRNAs corresponding to these loci were eliminated in nrpd1a and nrpd1a/nrpd1b mutants, they remained mostly unaffected in nrpd1b (Fig. 5A). We conclude from this result that RNAPIVb engagement in the siRNA synthesis pathway is target-dependent. DNA methylation assays indicate that RNAPIVb-independent loci (TR2558, siRNA02, and cluster 2) are less methylated than 5S rDNA, FWA, and AtSN1 sequences (Fig. 4C; Lippman et al. 2004; Zilberman et al. 2004).  The identification of genomic sequences that require only RNAPIVa for the accumulation of corresponding siRNAs gave us a functional way to confirm the association between NRPD1a and NRPD2. The accumulation of siRNAs was decreased at all loci tested in the nrpd2a mutant (Fig. 5B; Herr et al. 2005; Onodera et al. 2005), which is consistent with the presence of NRPD2 in both RNAPIV forms. 
!~MM~! For plant growth, seeds were stratified at 4°C for 2 d before growth at 23°C with 16 h light/8 h dark cycles on soil or under continuous light on plates with MS medium. All mutants originated from the Salk Institute collection of T-DNA insertions (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress) obtained via the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Center (http://nasc.life.nott.ac.uk). The nrpd1a-1 (1a-1) and nrpd1a-2 (1a-2) alleles correspond, respectively, to the lines SALK_583051 and SALK_628428. The nrpd1b-1 (1b-1) and nrpd1b-2 (1b-2) alleles correspond, respectively, to the lines SALK_029919 and SALK_033852. Genomic DNA was amplified with the LBA1 and specific primers to detect the T-DNA (5′-CGCTGTCTCGTTGCTGTAAACATGG-3′ for 1b-1 and 1b-2 lines, 5′-AACCTCGAAGCAACAAGAATCTCCG-3′ for the 1a-1 line, and 5′-GCGGATCCGCAATTATCAAAGCTTCTCC-3′ for the 1a-2 line). To follow the presence of the endogenous copy of the genes and identify homozygous lines, genomic DNA was PCR-amplified with specific couples of primers (1b-1, 5′-CAAAGTGGTGATGCATGGAGG-3′ and 5′-ATGTAAATTTTGGAAGTCGGC-3′; 1b-2, 5′-GCGCTCTAGACTTCAAATGGTCATATCCACG-3′ and 5′-CGCTGTCTCGTTGCTGTAAACATGG-3′; 1a-1, 5′-AACCTCGAAGCAACAAGAATCTCCG-3′ and 5′-ATCACGGTGACTGTAGTTGAAGCC-3′; 1a-2, 5′-GCGGATCCGCAATTATCAAAGCTTCTCC-3′ and 5′-CTCGTTTAAAGATGAAACAACGG-3′). Homozygous lines were propagated by repeated self-pollination.  For crosses, homozygous plants were grown on soil to maturity and five to eight flowers were hand-pollinated after removal of their immature stamens. The F2 generation was analyzed by PCR to characterize double-homozygous plants from which seeds were collected. The F3 generation was used for further experiments.  Gene searching was done on the Arabidopsis genome sequence database or the nonredundant databases by using the TBLASTN program (Altschul et al. 1997) with the amino acid sequence of the human RPB1 protein. The spinach NRPD1b ortholog gene was isolated by screening of a λZap library (Clontech), using a labeled DNA fragment corresponding to a part of the large exon 7 of AtNRPD1b as a probe. Phylogenetic studies were performed with the conserved region comparison as described previously (Lagrange et al. 2003). Molecular visualization of the RNAP conserved regions was performed using the WebLab ViewerLite software from Accelrys.  Total plant protein extracts were obtained following the Tanaka method (Hurkman and Tanaka 1986). Coomassie staining was used to calibrate loadings. Intact Arabidopsis chloroplasts were purified as described previously (Kunst 1998). Intact nuclei from Arabidopsis leaves were purified as described previously onto percoll gradients (Watson and Thompson 1986).  Proteins were separated onto SDS/PAGE gels and blotted onto PVDF membrane (Immobilon-P, Millipore). Rabbit anti-sera were raised against peptides designed in NRPD1a, NRPD1b, and NRPD2 and affinity-purified. Dilutions of 1/1000 were usedto perform Western blot analysis of the indicated protein extracts. Dilutions of 1:1000 and 1:500 of KARI (Dumas et al. 2001) and RPB1 monoclonal antibody 8WG16, respectively, were used for plastid and nuclei controls.  Total homogenates were prepared in BC500 buffer (Maldonado et al. 1996) and centrifuged for 30 min at 20,000 rpm (rotor JA 25.50), and the supernatant was filtered through a 0.45-μm filter (Gelman Sciences). About 400 μg of total soluble proteins were fractionated through a HiLoad 16/60 Sephacryl S-300 HR FPLC colum (Pharmacia), with BC500 buffer at a flow rate of 1 mL/min. All fractionations were carried out in the 4°C cold room. Fractions of 1 mL each were collected and concentrated by acetone precipitation. An equal volume of individual fractions was used for immunoblot analysis. The protein standards for size estimation of the NRPD1-containing complex(es) were as follows: blue dextran, 2 MDa; ferritin, 440 kDa.  Total RNA was isolated from different organs from plants grown in soil using the Invisorb Spin Plant RNA Mini Kit following the manufacturer's instructions (Invitek) followed by a DNase treatment using the RQ1 RNase-free DNase (Promega). A PCR reaction was performed on RNA with primers for the RPL21 gene (5′-TCCACTGCGTCGACGTCTCG-3′ and 5′-CTCCAACTGCAACATTGGGCG-3′) to check for the absence of genomic DNA. Reverse transcription was performed on 3–5 μg of total RNA using the ProSTAR First-Strand RT–PCR kit following the manufacturer's instructions (Stratagene). Semiquantitative RT–PCR was calibrated by nonsaturating PCR reaction (22 cycles) using primers designed to amplify the EF1-4α cDNAs (5′-CTGCTAACTTCACCTCCCAG-3′ and 5′-TGGTGGGTACTCAGAGAAGG-3′). A parallel set of reactions without addition of reverse transcriptase was run as a quality control. To analyze NRPD1b and NRPD1a expression in wild-type plants, semiquantitative RT–PCR was performed with the following primers: 5′-CAAAGTGGTGATGCATGGAGG-3′ and 5′-CGGCTCATTATTTTCTGGGAC-3′ for AtNRPD1b and 5′-ACTTGCGCTGCTTGGAATGAC-3′ and 5′-CAAAGACATTGTCTGTTGTGC-3′ for AtNRPD1a. Primers used to amplify FLC and FWA cDNAs were, respectively, 5′-AAGATCCTTGATCGATATGGG-3′ and 5′-AAGTAGTGGGAGAGTCACCGG-3′ (27 cycles), and 5′-GCGGTTGGAAACATTCCAAAACC-3′ and 5′-AGTGTCTCCACAATTAGTTGCC-3′ (40 cycles). The primer pair 5′-TCCCATTCAACATTCATACGAGCGCCGC-3′ and 5′-TCTGATATTTGGCTGGAAAAAACAACAATAAT C-3′ was used to detect cDNAs corresponding to the long tandem repeat that encompasses the FWA promoter and the first two untranslated exons (40 cycles).  For siRNA analysis, total RNA samples were extracted from inflorescences using TRIzol (Invitrogen). Thirty micrograms of total RNA were separated on a 15% polyacrylamide gel containing 7 M urea and electroblotted onto Hybond N+ membranes (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech Inc.). Hybridization was performed in PerfectHyb solution (Sigma) following the supplier's instruction. siRNA1003, miR159, and siRNA02 were detected using end-labeled DNA oligonucleotides AS1003, AS159, and AS-02, respectively (Xie et al. 2004). The probes for cluster2, TR2558, and FWA siRNA detection were riboprobes synthesized using the Riboprobe system T7 Kit (Promega) following the supplier's instruction. Primers used to amplify cluster2- and TR2558-specific sequences were, respectively, 5′-CTTTTTCAAACCATAAACCAGAAA-3′ and 5′-TTGCTGATTTGTATTTTATGCAT-3′, and 5′-CAATATCTAAAATTATTTCTATGAGTCGG-3′ and 5′-GCATAACATAACTATGCAAAACATGAGC-3′. Primers used to generate the FWA riboprobe template were the ones used for amplifying the tandem repeat in RT–PCR experiments. AtSN1 siRNA were detected using end-labeled DNA oligonucleotides JP2107 (Zilberman et al. 2004).  Genomic DNA was extracted from seedlings using the Wizard Genomic DNA extraction kit (Promega). DNA was digested with different restriction enzymes (HhaI, AvaII for FWA analysis and HaeIII for AtSN1 analysis). HhaI recognizes the sequence GCGC and is inhibited by methylation of either cytosine. AvaII recognizes the sequence GGA/TCC and is inhibited by methylation at the outer cytosine, allowing detection of asymmetric methylation. PCR amplification was subsequently done on 150 ng of digested DNA using the following primers. The 5′-GAAGGTTCTCATCATATACCG-3′ and 5′-GGTTTTGGAATGTTTCCAACCGC-3′ primer pair (FWA SINE) was used to identify the methylation status of the tandem repeats that encompass the FWA promoter and the first two untranslated of FWA. Primers designed for RT–PCR amplification of the FWA coding region flanked an unmethylated HhaI site and were used to check the completion of genomic DNA digestion (cut1). Since the amplified DNA sequence is devoid of AvaII, this pair was used to control equal template concentration in the AvaII experiment (control panel). Internal PCR control primers (5′-GGAGAGAGGCTTGTTGGATACTGC-3′ and 5′-GAACACGCATGACAGTGGGTGGAG-3′) span a region lacking HhaI as well as HaeIII sites and were used to control equal template concentration in both HhaI and HaeIII experiments (control panels). In contrast, this control region contains an unmethylated AvaII site, and, therefore, those primers were used to check the completion of genomic DNA digestion by this enzyme (cut2). For AtSN1 methylation status, the following primers were used: 5′-ACTTAATTAGCACTCAAATTAAACAAAATAAG T-3′ and 5′-TTTAAACATAARAARAARTTCCTTTTTCATCTAC-3′ (Hamilton et al. 2002). The primers FWA SINE described above flank a DNA sequence containing unmethylated HaeIII sites and are used to check the completion of HaeIII digestion (cut3 panel).  The Southern experiment was performed on 5 μg of genomic DNA digested by the methylation-sensitive enzymes HpaII or MspI and separated on 0.9% agarose gel. After blotting on Hybond N+ membranes (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech Inc.), hybridization was performed in PerfectHyb solution (Sigma) following the supplier's instructions, with the transcribed region of the 5S rRNA gene.  McrBC-based methylation analysis was performed as follows, based on a previously published protocol (Lippman et al. 2003). Genomic DNA (500 ng) was digested for 2 h at 37°C with 30 U of McrBC enzyme (NEB). A mock digestion was done in parallel, with no enzyme. Quantitative PCR (ABI Prism 79000 HT) was directly performed on 1/50th of the digested and mock samples, using the ABI SybrGreen PCR master mix. Reactions were performed on two independent digests, and were usually duplicated. Differences in Ct values between digested and undigested samples were averaged over three or four sets of PCR reactions. Primers used for quantitative PCR were as follows: 5′-AACGTGCTGTTGGCCCAGT-3′ and 5′-CTGGAAGTTCAAGCCCAAAG-3′ for AtSN1; 5′-CTTTTCGGGCNTTTTNGTG-3′ and 5′-CGAAAAGGTATCACATGCC-3′ for the 5S spacer; 5′-TTCCGAAACAGTAAACCATCG-3′ and 5′-TCAAAGTGAAAGTGGTTCTTGG-3′ for siRNA02up; 5′-GCCATCCCAAGCTGTTCTCTC-3′ and 5′-CCCTCGTAGATTGGCACAGT-3′ for Actin 2. 
