!~ABS~! The H2O2 byproduct of fatty acid catabolism in plant peroxisomes is removed in part by a membrane-associated antioxidant system that involves both an ascorbate peroxidase and a monodehydroascorbate reductase (MDAR). Despite descriptions of 32-kDa MDAR polypeptides in pea and castor peroxisomal membranes and cDNA sequences for several ‘cytosolic’ MDARs, the genetic and protein factors responsible for peroxisomal MDAR function have yet to be elucidated. Of the six MDAR polypeptides in the Arabidopsis proteome, named AtMDAR1 to AtMDAR6 in this study, 47-kDa AtMDAR1 and 54-kDa AtMDAR4 possess amino acid sequences that resemble matrix (PTS1) and membrane peroxisomal targeting signals, respectively. Epitope-tagged versions of these two MDARs and a pea 47-kDa MDAR (PsMDAR) sorted in vivo directly from the cytosol to peroxisomes in Arabidopsis and BY-2 suspension cells, whereas AtMDAR2 and AtMDAR3 accumulated in the cytosol. The PTS1-dependent sorting of AtMDAR1 and PsMDAR to peroxisomes was incomplete (inefficient?), but was improved for PsMDAR after changing its PTS1 sequence from –SKI to the canonical tripeptide –SKL. A C-terminal transmembrane domain and basic cluster of AtMDAR4 were necessary and sufficient for targeting directly to peroxisomes. MDAR activity in isolated Arabidopsis peroxisomes was distributed among both water-soluble matrix and KCl-insoluble membrane subfractions that contained respectively 47- and 54-kDa MDAR polypeptides. Notably, a 32-kDa MDAR was not identified. Combined with membrane association and topological orientation findings, these results indicate that ascorbate recycling in Arabidopsis (and probably other plant) peroxisomes is coordinated through functionally redundant MDARs that reside in the membrane and the matrix of the organelle.
!~RES~! For the purposes of this study, Arabidopsis gene loci are referred to by their AGI names and the proteins by the given names AtMDAR1 to AtMDAR6. AtMDAR1 (At3g52880) possesses a C-terminal –AKI tripeptide that resembles the PTS1 signal for directing proteins to the peroxisomal matrix. Similarly, AtMDAR4 (At3g27820) contains within a unique C-terminal extension mPTS-like sequences that comprise a predicted TMD followed immediately by five basic arginine residues. Neither AtMDAR2 (At5g03630) nor AtMDAR3 (At3g09940) include sequence features that predict specific subcellular (organellar) localizations. AtMDAR5 and AtMDAR6 (At1g63940) are the respective mitochondrial and chloroplast MDARs that have been characterized previously (CITATION). We searched the literature and protein sequence databases for PTS-containing plant MDAR homologs with the goal of identifying sequences that would validate the predicted peroxisomal localizations and MDAR functions of AtMDAR1 and AtMDAR4. The results are listed in Table 1 and are arranged in ascending order according to mass. Most of the sequences corresponded to MDAR polypeptides that possessed a C-terminal PTS1 signal. All these sequences had predicted masses of approximately 47 kDa and possessed the NADP/FAD binding domains that are typical of flavoproteins such as MDAR that belong to the pyridine nucleotide–disulphide oxidoreductase family (Pfam accession number PF00070). In comparison, AtMDAR1 is at least 76% identical to any one of the seven other PTS1-containing MDARs listed in Table 1 (alignment not shown). AtMDAR1 also contains three sequence motifs that correspond to the NADP/FAD binding domains typified by the cucumber and pea polypeptides, both of which have been purified and shown to exhibit NADH-dependent MDAR activity in vitro (CITATION; CITATION). Furthermore, the C-terminal –AKI tripeptide of AtMDAR1 matches the PTS1-like motif –(S/A)K(I/V) (CITATION) that is shared among this group of 47-kDa MDARs. The presence of functional domains responsible for MDAR catalytic activity and for targeting to peroxisomes supports the assignment of AtMDAR1 as an authentic peroxisomal matrix MDAR. Publicly available literature and sequence databases were searched for data supporting the existence of MDAR-like gene(s) and protein(s) affiliated with the ascorbate metabolism of plant peroxisomes. Listed in ascending order according to size are only those candidates for which the available experimental and/or sequence data strongly support peroxisomal functions. For MDAR-like sequences that have yet to be verified experimentally, the criteria for inclusion were the presence of amino acid sequences that resembled matrix or membrane peroxisomal targeting signals. Predicted sizes of polypeptides were calculated with the SAPS algorithm (CITATION); aincomplete sequence, bportion of sequence homologous to matrix MDAR proteins. SDS-PAGE sizes, as reported in the references listed, were derived from the following sources: cimmunoblot, P. sativum leaf PMPs; dprotein stain, R. communis glyoxysomal membrane extracts; eprotein stain, purified proteins from G. max root nodule extracts; fimmunoblot, A. thaliana suspension cell peroxisomal matrix fractions; gimmunoblot, R. communis glyoxysomal membrane fractions; hprotein stain, E. coli expressed proteins; iprotein stain, purified proteins from C. sativus fruit extracts; jimmunoblot, E. coli expressed proteins; kimmunoblot, A. thaliana suspension cell peroxisomal membrane fractions. n.d., not determined; n.a., not available. The biochemical and sequence data compiled in Table 1 indicated the existence of at least one other group of peroxisomal MDARs. This group consisted of four predicted approximately 52–54 kDa polypeptides that contained putative TMD regions at both ends of the proteins. AtMDAR4 is 70% identical to any one of the other group members (alignment not shown), all of which possess the three NADP/FAD binding motifs of the 47-kDa cucumber MDAR that also were identified in AtMDAR1. The C-terminal-most TMD of AtMDAR4 is defined on each end by conserved proline and glycine residues and is situated adjacent to a tryptophan-capped basic cluster –R(K/R)RRR that is shared by all five polypeptides (including an incomplete sequence from barley). Together the TMD and basic cluster form a C-terminal mPTS, neither component of which was found in any of the 47-kDa MDAR sequences. These comparisons suggest the classification of AtMDAR4 as an authentic peroxisomal membrane MDAR, and when combined with those of the 47-kDa group reveal the presence of two predominant MDAR isoforms in plant peroxisomes that in Arabidopsis are represented by AtMDAR1 and AtMDAR4. Sucrose density gradient separations were employed to assess the distributions of MDAR polypeptides and enzyme activities in subcellular fractions of Arabidopsis suspension cells. The representative gradient profiles shown in Figure 1(a) demonstrate that most of the peroxisomes equilibrated in the 1.25 g ml−1 regions of the gradients. These regions were well separated from mitochondria and were largely devoid of starch-containing non-green plastids that were removed from crude homogenates prior to gradient centrifugations (data not shown). Smaller peaks of catalase activity, marking either damaged peroxisomes and/or intact pre-peroxisomes, were measured consistently in the higher-density fractions of the mitochondrial regions. Relatively few peroxisomes were burst during the homogenization procedure, as evidenced by the low catalase activity in the soluble/cytosolic regions (fractions 24–29). These results are consistent with previous separations of Arabidopsis suspension cells, although the improved methods utilized here yielded three to seven times more catalase activity in the peroxisomal regions and reduced by at least 50% the catalase activity in the soluble regions (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, via isopycnic centrifugation we were able to collect a high proportion of applied peroxisomes that were intact and virtually free of mitochondria and plastids. [[FIGURE]] MDAR activity exhibited three separate peaks in the peroxisomal, mitochondrial and cytosolic regions of the gradients (Figure 1a). The representative immunoblot analyses shown in Figure 1(b) indicate that these enzyme activities were attributable to MDAR polypeptides detected in peak peroxisomal, mitochondrial and cytosolic fractions. Specifically, peroxisomal fractions possessed two MDARs with apparent masses of 47 and 54 kDa, the latter being most abundant in fractions 5–7. Mitochondrial and cytosolic fractions also contained 47-kDa MDARs, as well as a 38-kDa MDAR in the cytosolic samples that was most prevalent in fractions 26 and 27. Most of these MDARs were detected in the clarified homogenates that were applied to the sucrose gradients, although the high protein concentration of these samples often precluded detection of the less-abundant MDARs, particularly the 54-kDa MDAR. Combined, the enzyme profiles and immunoblot analyses shown in Figure 1 demonstrate that peak MDAR activities equilibrate in well-separated peroxisomal, mitochondrial and cytosolic fractions of Arabidopsis suspension cells, each of which retains one or more different MDAR polypeptides. Isolated peroxisomes were examined in more detailed enzymatic and biochemical analyses to determine if the endogenous 47- and 54-kDa MDAR polypeptides corresponded to any of the AtMDAR proteins that were predicted from Arabidopsis gene sequences. Table 2 lists enzyme activity data, and Figure 2(a) shows immunoblot analyses of MDAR and APX detected in peroxisomes and peroxisomal subfractions. Incubation of intact organelles (Figure 2a, lane 1) in hypotonic buffer and separation of membranes by centrifugation released portions of the 47-kDa MDAR into the water-soluble matrix (Figure 2a, lane 2) that exhibited three-quarters of the MDAR and catalase activities associated with peroxisomes (Table 2). This treatment did not release the 54-kDa MDAR or membrane-bound APX, and appreciable amounts of MDAR activity were found repeatedly in the resulting membrane pellets. Subsequent incubation of these membranes in KCl removed the remainder of the 47-kDa MDAR (Figure 2a, lane 3), but not the 54-kDa MDAR or APX, both of which remained associated with the KCl-insoluble pellet (Figure 2a, lane 4) that received nearly all the membrane-associated MDAR activity (Table 2). Cytosolic samples contained 38- and 47-kDa MDARs and the soluble form of APX (Figure 2a, lane 5) that were detected with other immunologically related proteins in the clarified homogenates (Figure 2a, lane 6). Mitochondria isolated from the same sucrose gradients exhibited 50 times more MDAR activity than peroxisomes, most of which was associated with the mitochondrial matrix, and not KCl-extracted membranes that exhibited cytochrome c oxidase activity (Table 2). Values are averages derived from two experiments. Each experiment utilized organelle fractions pooled from three separate sucrose gradients (e.g. Figure 1a): aclarified homogenate (1500 g supernatant, 15 min) applied to the top of each 30–59% w/w sucrose gradient in a vTi 50 rotor tube (8.4 ml split equally among three gradients); bfractions 4–8; cfractions 13–15; dfractions 25–28. n.d., not determined. [[FIGURE]] Intact peroxisomes also were incubated with proteinase K with or without Triton X-100 to elucidate the topological orientation of the endogenous Arabidopsis MDARs. As shown in Figure 2(b), all the MDAR polypeptides as well as APX and catalase remained unchanged in control reactions in which neither proteinase K or detergent was added (lane 1). Incubation of intact peroxisomes in protease alone (lane 2) resulted in the digestion of cytosolically oriented APX, but not the 47- and 54-kDa MDAR proteins or catalase. However, the latter three proteins were digested when the peroxisomes were treated first with Triton X-100 and then incubated in proteinase K (lane 3). Together, the in vitro results presented in Table 2 and Figure 2 show that Arabidopsis peroxisomes retain two unique MDAR polypeptides that are distributed differentially among the membrane and matrix. More specifically, the 54-kDa MDAR is an integral membrane protein positioned on the matrix face of the membrane and, like catalase, the 47-kDa MDAR is in the matrix. These biochemical characteristics suggest that the endogenous 47- and 54-kDa peroxisomal MDARs are coded by the Arabidopsis genes AtMDAR1 and AtMDAR4, respectively. Furthermore, the 47-kDa MDARs detected in mitochondria and the cytosol are probably coded by AtMDAR5 and AtMDAR2/3. The results of our sequence analyses matched those of our biochemical examinations in predicting the existence of separate 47- and 54-kDa polypeptides, namely AtMDAR1 and AtMDAR4, which reside in the matrix and membrane of Arabidopsis peroxisomes. To confirm/refute these findings we cloned, epitope-tagged, and then overexpressed transiently AtMDAR1–AtMDAR4 (Table 3) for in vivo localization in Arabidopsis and tobacco BY-2 suspension cells. Epitope-tagged A. thaliana and P. sativum MDAR proteins (bold type) were aligned using the clustalw algorithm. PTS1-like tripeptides are single-underlined. mPTS-like TMDs predicted with the tmhmm program (version 2.0) and basic (positively charged) amino acid clusters are bold type and double-underlined, respectively. Figure 3(a–h) shows the results of in vivo sorting analyses of transiently expressed myc-AtMDAR1. After 5 h of transient gene expression, application of anti-myc primary and fluorophore-conjugated secondary antibodies revealed that nearly all the overexpressed myc-AtMDAR1 was localized in the cytosol of either Arabidopsis (Figure 3a) or BY-2 (Figure 3c) cells. Curiously, after 20 h transgene expression most of the myc-AtMDAR1 had localized in Arabidopsis cells to peroxisomes that also were marked with anti-catalase antibodies (Figure 3e,f). Similar results were obtained with BY-2 cells subjected to the same 20-h expression period (Figure 3g,h), although the relative amount of expressed myc-AtMDAR1 localized to peroxisomes was much less than in Arabidopsis cells. Multiple labeling experiments with various organelle-specific markers were unable to detect myc-AtMDAR1 in compartments other than the cytosol or peroxisomes, and allowing cells to express the transgenes for longer periods did not change the peroxisomal sorting seen at 20 h (data not shown). Partial localization to peroxisomes was not observed in experiments with myc-AtMDAR2 (Figure 3i–l) or myc-AtMDAR3 (Figure 3m–p), both of which were detected only in the cytosol in both cell types after 20 h expression. Cumulatively, these results demonstrate that AtMDAR1 sorts directly to Arabidopsis and BY-2 cell peroxisomes, whereas AtMDAR2 and AtMDAR3 remain and probably function in the cytosol. [[FIGURE]] The sorting characteristics of AtMDAR1 prompted us to analyze more closely the protein's putative PTS1 tripeptide. Figure 4(a–d) shows that removal of the –AKI tripeptide from the C terminus of AtMDAR1 (Table 3) abolishes its sorting to Arabidopsis and BY-2 cell peroxisomes after 20 h expression. This finding confirms the necessity of these three residues for peroxisomal targeting, and suggests that the analogous residues of the other seven 47-kDa MDARs listed in Table 1 also confer localization to peroxisomes. We tested this hypothesis with a partially characterized MDAR from pea and found that the results of similar in vivo sorting analyses mimicked those of AtMDAR1. More specifically, after 5 h expression nearly all the myc-PsMDAR was detected in the cytosol of Arabidopsis and BY-2 cells (Figure 4e–h), whereas after 20 h expression a portion of myc-PsMDAR was detected in peroxisomes (Figure 4i–l). We were able to increase the sorting efficiency of this MDAR, particularly in BY-2 cells, by changing the C-terminal tripeptide from-SKI to the more canonical-SKL. In both cell types, Figure 4(m–p) shows very little myc-PsMDAR (expressed for 20 h) in the cytosol and nearly perfect colocalization with endogenous catalase. [[FIGURE]] We also tested in vivo the hypothesis that transiently expressed myc-AtMDAR4 sorts to peroxisomal membranes in Arabidopsis and BY-2 suspension cells. Figure 5(a–d) shows representative Arabidopsis (Figure 5a,b) and BY-2 (Figure 5c,d) cells expressing for 2.5 and 5 h, respectively, myc-AtMDAR4 within peroxisomes that also contained the marker enzyme catalase. These periods were the earliest time-points after which myc-AtMDAR4 could be detected reliably in these cells, and examinations of numerous images did not show the protein within any other organellar compartment. It should be noted that we observed overexpressed myc-AtMDAR4 within a non-peroxisomal compartment in both cell types, although the effect was most pronounced in BY-2 cells after expression periods longer than 8 h (data not shown). A careful series of experiments confirmed that myc-AtMDAR4 had not sorted to ER or pER, and that the non-peroxisomal structures instead represented an overexpression artifact that had been observed and described in detail previously (CITATION). Hence, our interpretation is that newly synthesized AtMDAR4 sorts in both cell types directly from the cytosol to peroxisomes, rather than indirectly to peroxisomes through pER. [[FIGURE]] Figure 6 summarizes the results of in vivo topology studies that utilized the N-terminal position of the myc epitope to elucidate the orientation of overexpressed myc-AtMDAR4. Arabidopsis cells bombarded with genes coding for myc-AtMDAR4 or myc-AtMDAR2 (control) were fixed in formaldehyde and then plasma membranes were permeabilized selectively with digitonin. In both cases, applied antibodies bound to exposed myc epitopes on the cytosolic surfaces of punctate peroxisomes for myc-AtMDAR4 (Figure 6a) or to epitopes distributed throughout the cytosol for myc-AtMDAR2 (Figure 6c). These labeling patterns resembled closely those of Triton X-100-permeabilized cells expressing myc-AtMDAR4 (Figure 5a) or myc-AtMDAR2 (Figure 3i). Dual labeling of the digitonin-permeabilized cells with anti-catalase antibodies confirmed the inaccessibility of antigens within the peroxisomal matrix (Figure 6b,d). In another control experiment, mock-transformed cells permeabilized with digitonin showed bright labeling of cytosolic microtubules (Figure 6e), whereas in the same cell endogenous catalase in the peroxisomal matrix was not accessible to applied IgGs (Figure 6f). From these experiments we conclude that the myc epitope of myc-AtMDAR4, and thus the N terminus of the AtMDAR4 polypeptide, is situated on the cytosolic face of peroxisomal membranes. Similar studies with BY-2 cells corroborated this orientation (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] A series of mutagenesis experiments was performed to determine whether the putative mPTS of myc-AtMDAR4 was responsible for the observed sorting to Arabidopsis and BY-2 peroxisomes. When we removed the C-terminal tryptophan of myc-tagged AtMDAR4 and expressed the mutant transiently in Arabidopsis cells, Figure 7(a,b) shows that the proteins were sorted normally to pre-existing peroxisomes that also contained matrix catalase. However, truncation of the tryptophan and the basic cluster (six C-terminal residues) eliminated completely targeting to peroxisomes (Figure 7c,d), as did removal of the entire putative mPTS (38 C-terminal residues) (Figure 7e,f). These Δ6 and Δ38 truncation mutants sorted instead to unidentified punctate (non-peroxisomal) structures and/or the cytosol, but not to fluorescent structures resembling reticular ER or circular aggregates of chloroplasts and mitochondria, as described in CITATION. [[FIGURE]] In a separate set of experiments, C-terminal portions of AtMDAR4 were appended to a monomeric variant of green fluorescent protein (GFP) (Table 3) to ask which residues provide information sufficient for peroxisomal targeting. Figure 7(g,i) illustrates, respectively, that addition of either the basic cluster (six C-terminal residues) or the C-terminal TMD of AtMDAR4 to the C terminus of GFP did not permit targeting to catalase-containing peroxisomes in Arabidopsis cells (Figure 7h,j). Like the truncated myc-AtMDAR4 mutants, the majority of these GFP fusion proteins remained instead in the cytosol, with some in the nucleus (see Figure 7g). Conversely, when both the C-terminal TMD and the basic cluster (38 C-terminal residues) were appended to GFP, the expressed products targeted to Arabidopsis peroxisomes that also were marked by catalase (Figure 7k,l). From these findings, we conclude that the C-terminal TMD and basic cluster of AtMDAR4 together form an authentic mPTS that is both necessary and sufficient for peroxisomal targeting.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana var. Landsberg erecta) suspension cells (50 ml cultures) were grown, maintained and harvested according to CITATION. For isolation of organelles in sucrose gradients, protoplasts were prepared prior to cell disruption as follows. Cells collected by centrifugation from each 4-day culture were washed twice (5 min each at room temperature) with 25 ml of aqueous 0.4 md-mannitol. The cells were then resuspended in 25 ml of protoplasting solution [Arabidopsis culture medium (CITATION) plus 0.4 m d-mannitol, 0.1% w/v Pectinase (Sigma-Aldrich, St Louis, MO, USA) and 1% w/v Cellulase Y-C (Karlan Research Products, Cottonwood, AZ, USA)] and incubated with rocking inversion at 30°C until the 20–30-cell clusters typical of Arabidopsis suspension cultures were reduced to one to four cells per cluster (approximately 2.5 h). The protoplasts were pelleted in a fixed-angle Sorvall SS-34 rotor at 480 g for 10 min and washed subsequently three times in aqueous 0.4 m d-mannitol before final resuspension in two pellet volumes of ice-cold homogenization medium (HM) (25 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5, 0.7 m sucrose, 3 mm dithiothreitol (DTT) and 0.5 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride). Resuspended cells (5–6 ml, equivalent to 1–1.5 flasks of 4-day cells) were disrupted with an ice-cold 15-ml Dounce (Wheaton Science Products, Millville, NJ, USA) tissue grinder (pestle ‘A’) using 25–35 up-and-down movements until approximately 80% of the cells were ruptured as judged by optical microscopy. Homogenates were centrifuged in a Sorvall HB-6 swing-out rotor at 1500 g for 15 min at 4°C to pellet unbroken cells, starch-containing non-green plastids, nuclei and cell debris. The resulting supernatants (2.5–3 ml, equivalent to 1 flask of 4-day cells) were loaded onto 25-ml linear gradients (30–59% w/w sucrose in 25 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5) underlaid with 5-ml cushions (59% w/w sucrose) in Beckman vTi 50 Quick-Seal centrifuge tubes (Beckman Coulter, Fullerton, CA, USA). Each applied sample was overlaid with HM (0.4 m sucrose) before the gradient tubes were heat-sealed and then centrifuged in a vTi 50 rotor at 50 000 g for 75 min at 4°C. Peroxisomes equilibrated as a white band near the bottom of the gradients clearly separated from the larger mitochondrial band at lower sucrose density. Fractions (1 ml) were collected by hand through a hole punctured in the bottom of the tubes. The peroxisomes used for the topological studies presented in Figure 2(b) were isolated similarly according to the procedure detailed in CITATION. Experiments designed to elucidate the organellar distribution and membrane association of MDAR proteins in Arabidopsis peroxisomes were conducted mainly as described by CITATION. The following describes important detailed differences. Organelles (Figure 1) in fractions 4–8 (peroxisomes), 13–15 (mitochondria) and 25–28 (cytosol) were pooled from each of three gradients. A duplicate set of pooled fractions from three other combined gradients also was prepared. Pooled peroxisomes (approximately 10 ml) or mitochondria (approximately 10 ml) were burst in 1.5 volumes of 25 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5, with incubation (inversion rocking) for 40 min at 4°C. The suspensions were centrifuged in a Beckman fixed-angle 70 Ti rotor at 150 000 g for 45 min at 4°C to produce pelleted membranes and supernatants (water-solubilized proteins). The membrane pellets were resuspended in 1 ml (peroxisomes) or 4 ml (mitochondria) of 0.2 m KCl in 25 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5, and incubated with intermittent mixing for 60 min at 4°C. KCl-insoluble membranes were pelleted from these suspensions in a Beckman 90 Ti rotor at 150 000 g for 30 min, generating a supernatant with KCl-soluble proteins. The KCl-insoluble membrane pellets were resuspended in 1 ml (peroxisomes) or 2 ml (mitochondria) of 0.2 m KCl in 25 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5, for enzyme and protein assays. Peroxisomes used for protease-digestion (proteinase K) topology experiments were treated as described in detail in CITATION. Catalase and cytochrome c oxidase activities were assayed as described by CITATION and CITATION, respectively. MDAR enzyme activities were assayed essentially as described by CITATION. Briefly, the reaction was carried out in a final 1-ml volume of 50 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.6, 2.5 mm ascorbate (Sigma), 0.5 units ascorbate oxidase (Sigma), 5–100 μl sample (up to 400 μl in very dilute samples) and 0.1 mm NADH (Sigma). The components were added sequentially to a quartz cuvette and the linear decrease in A340 was monitored for 1–2 min. These assays included measuring the potential rate of MDAR-independent NADH oxidation by omitting additions of ascorbate and ascorbate oxidase and subtracting this potential activity from the rate of MDAR-dependent NADH oxidation. Activity of the commercially supplied ascorbate oxidase was verified using a modification of the manufacturer's suggested assay, i.e., the decrease in A265 of ascorbate was followed in a 1-ml reaction containing 50 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.6, ascorbate (A265 approximately 0.907) and 0.5 units ascorbate oxidase. Buoyant density measurement of sucrose gradient fractions, protein estimation, trichloroacetic acid (TCA) precipitation, sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and immunoblot detection were carried out essentially as described by CITATION. The modifications used in this paper are that a final concentration of 0.05% w/v deoxycholate was added to all fractions prior to protein precipitation at a final concentration of 10% v/v TCA for 30 min at 4°C. Samples (25 μg protein) were neutralized with solid Tris base and stored at 4°C as described. Samples were reduced by additions of freshly prepared 0.5 m or 1 m DTT to a final concentration of 10 mm, and then boiled 8 min prior to separation in 10% w/v precast Mini-Protean II polyacrylamide gels (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). Electroblotting was performed for 45 min (for two gels). Primary and secondary antibodies were used as follows: rabbit anti-cucumber 47-kDa MDAR antiserum (1:1000) (CITATION), rabbit anti-cucumber peroxisomal APX IgGs (1:1000) (CITATION), rabbit anti-cottonseed catalase IgGs (1:1000 or 1:2000) (CITATION) and goat anti-rabbit alkaline phosphatase conjugate (1:10 000) (Bio-Rad). Molecular biology reagents employed in standard recombinant DNA manipulations were purchased from Promega (Madison, WI, USA), New England Biolabs (Beverly, MA, USA) and Takara Biomedicals (Otsu, Shiga, Japan). Mutations were incorporated into coding sequences in polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based site-directed mutagenesis reactions that included appropriate forward and reverse mutagenic primers. Mutagenic primer sets were designed for either fragment-specific or whole-plasmid PCR amplifications; the latter were carried out using the QuikChange site-directed mutagenesis kit according to the manufacturer's instructions (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA). Custom oligonucleotide primers were synthesized by Genetech Biosciences (Tempe, AZ, USA), and all (mutated) plasmid inserts were confirmed by automated dye-terminator cycle sequencing (Arizona State University DNA Laboratory, Tempe, AZ, USA). Sequence details and DNA samples of all primer sets and plasmids used/created in this study are available from the authors upon request. Full-length expressed sequence tag cDNAs were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA) for A. thaliana ecotype Columbia genes AtMDAR1 (ABRC stock number U12996), AtMDAR2 (U14648) and AtMDAR3 (U21865). All three cDNAs were epitope-tagged as follows. First, open reading frames (ORFs) were amplified from their parent plasmids in PCR reactions that replaced start codons with in-frame BamHI sites and appended XbaI sites after the stop codons. PCR products were TA cloned into pCR2.1 (Invitrogen, San Diego, CA, USA), digested with BamHI and XbaI, and then ligated into BamHI/XbaI-digested pRTL2/mycBX to yield pRTL2/myc-AtMDAR1, pRTL2/myc-AtMDAR2 and pRTL2/myc-AtMDAR3. pRTL2/mycBX is a CaMV 35S promoter-driven plant expression cassette that adds a single copy of the myc epitope to the 5′ end of an ORF. The PsMDAR ORF was amplified from pSK/PsMDAR (CITATION) and myc epitope-tagged as described above for AtMDAR1, except that the start codon was replaced with an XbaI-compatible NheI site for subcloning into an analogous pRTL2/mycX plant expression cassette. A full-length cDNA of AtMDAR4 was amplified from 4-day Arabidopsis suspension cell total RNA using an RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA) and the access reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) system (Promega), both according to the manufacturer's instructions. The forward primer corresponded to sequences downstream of the initiation codon, which was replaced by an in-frame NheI site. The reverse primer corresponded to sequences upstream of and including the termination codon and introduced a unique XbaI site within the 3′ untranslated region. The cDNA products were TA cloned, sequenced to verify amplification of the correct MDAR ORF, and then subcloned into XbaI-digested pRTL2/mycX to yield epitope-tagged pRTL2/myc-AtMDAR4. Sequences coding for the C-terminal PTS signals of AtMDAR1, PsMDAR and AtMDAR4 were modified for targeting necessity experiments as follows. pRTL2/myc-AtMDAR1-Δ3 was created from pRTL2/myc-AtMDAR1 in a whole-plasmid PCR reaction that changed the GCT codon encoding A432 to a TGA stop codon. Similarly, pRTL2/myc-PsMDAR-I433L was created from pRTL2/myc-PsMDAR using complementary primers that changed the ATT codon encoding I433 to a leucine-coding TTA codon. To create pRTL2/myc-AtMDAR4-Δ1, the AtMDAR4 ORF was PCR-amplified from pRTL2/myc-AtMDAR4 using the forward primer described above and a mutagenic reverse primer that changed the final tryptophan-coding TGG codon to a TGA stop codon. The PCR products were TA cloned, digested with the appropriate restriction enzymes, and then ligated into pRTL2/mycX to yield pRTL2/myc-AtMDAR4-Δ1. Whole-plasmid PCR reactions were used to generate pRTL2/myc-AtMDAR4-Δ6 and pRTL2/myc-AtMDAR4-Δ38 from pRTL2/myc-AtMDAR4 with complementary primers that substituted TGA stop codons for those encoding amino acids R483 and S451, respectively. Fusion of various portions of the mPTS of AtMDAR4 to the C terminus of GFP for targeting sufficiency experiments was accomplished as follows. pRTL2/GFP-AtMDAR4(6) was made by first annealing complementary oligonucleotides containing sequences coding for the RRRRRW basic cluster (six C-terminal residues) and stop codon of AtMDAR4. The resulting double-stranded fragments were phosphorylated with T4 polynucleotide kinase (New England Biolabs) and then ligated through designed 5′NheI and 3′XbaI overhangs into an XbaI-digested pRTL2/GFPX fusion cassette to yield pRTL2/GFP-AtMDAR4(6). pRTL2/GFPX was created from sequential whole-plasmid PCR reactions that inserted both an in-frame XbaI site in place of the stop codon and a monomer-inducing A206K mutation (CITATION; CITATION) into a plant optimized S65T variant of GFP (CITATION). pRTL2/GFP-AtMDAR4(TMD) and pRTL2/GFP-AtMDAR4(38) were made by first PCR-amplifying from pRTL2/myc-AtMDAR4 the TMD (residues 451–482) or the entire mPTS (residues 451–488) of AtMDAR4. Both reactions included a mutagenic forward primer that introduced an in-frame NheI site after the codon encoding amino acid A450; mutagenic reverse primers either substituted a TGA stop codon and an XbaI site for that encoding R483 [pRTL2/GFP-AtMDAR4(TMD)] or appended an XbaI site after the natural stop codon [pRTL2/GFP-AtMDAR4(38)]. TA-cloned PCR products were digested with the appropriate restriction enzymes and then ligated into XbaI-digested pRTL2/GFPX as described above. Detailed descriptions of how Nicotiana tabacum L., cv. Bright Yellow 2 (BY-2) suspension-cultured cells were propagated in MS medium and how Arabidopsis and BY-2 cells were transformed via microprojectile bombardments can be found in CITATION and CITATION, respectively. For transient transformations, cells were resuspended in the appropriate transformation medium (MS medium without growth hormones), spread onto filter papers in petri dishes pre-wetted with the same medium and equilibrated for 1 h at room temperature in the dark. Equilibrated cells were bombarded with DNA-coated tungsten particles and then held in covered petri dishes for 2–20 h (sometimes longer) to allow for expression of the introduced transgene(s). Bombarded cells were scraped from filter papers, fixed in 4% w/v formaldehyde (prepared fresh from paraformaldehyde) (Ted Pella, Redding, CA, USA), and then perforated/digested in 0.1% w/v Pectolyase Y-23 (Karlan) and 0.1% w/v Cellulase RS (Arabidopsis only) (Karlan) in preparation for immunofluorescence localization of the expressed proteins (CITATION). Fixed and perforated cells were immunolabeled according to our standard 1-ml volume procedure described in CITATION. Briefly, cells were permeabilized first in 0.3% v/v Triton X-100 (Sigma) and were then incubated for 1 h each in primary and fluorophore-conjugated secondary antibodies diluted in PBS. In experiments aimed at determining the topological orientation of proteins in vivo (Figure 6), Arabidopsis cells instead were perforated/digested in 0.1% w/v Pectinase for 1 h at 30°C and then were permeabilized selectively at plasma, but not organellar, membranes with 25 μg ml−1 digitonin for 15 min at room temperature (CITATION). Primary antibody sources and concentrations were as follows: mouse anti-myc monoclonal antibody 9E10 (1:500) (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA, USA), mouse anti-chick brain α-tubulin monoclonal antibody DM1A (1:500) (Accurate Chemical and Scientific Corp., Westbury, NY, USA) and rabbit anti-cottonseed catalase IgGs (1:500 or 1:2000) (CITATION). Secondary immunoreagents conjugated to various green, red or far-red fluorophores were purchased from Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories (Westgrove, PA, USA). Immunolabeled cells were examined and photographed as described (CITATION), and the resulting micrographs were adjusted for contrast and assembled into plates with Adobe Photoshop software (Adobe Systems, San Jose, CA, USA).
