!~ABS~! The processes accompanying endosymbiosis have led to a complex network of interorganellar protein traffic that originates from nuclear genes encoding mitochondrial and plastid proteins. A significant proportion of nucleus-encoded organellar proteins are dual targeted, and the process by which a protein acquires the capacity for both mitochondrial and plastid targeting may involve intergenic DNA exchange coupled with the incorporation of sequences residing upstream of the gene. We evaluated targeting and sequence alignment features of two organellar DNA polymerase genes from Arabidopsis thaliana. Within one of these two loci, protein targeting appeared to be plastidic when the 5′ untranslated leader region (UTR) was deleted and translation could only initiate at the annotated ATG start codon but dual targeted when the 5′ UTR was included. Introduction of stop codons at various sites within the putative UTR demonstrated that this region is translated and influences protein targeting capacity. However, no ATG start codon was found within this upstream, translated region, suggesting that translation initiates at a non-ATG start. We identified a CTG codon that likely accounts for much of this initiation. Investigation of the 5′ region of other nucleus-encoded organellar genes suggests that several genes may incorporate upstream sequences to influence targeting capacity. We postulate that a combination of intergenic recombination and some relaxation of constraints on translation initiation has acted in the evolution of protein targeting specificity for those proteins capable of functioning in both plastids and mitochondria.
!~RES~! Study and alignment of two duplicate Arabidopsis thaliana genes, DNA Polymerase γ1 (POLγ1) and POLγ2, predicted to encode organellar γ-type DNA polymerase, revealed not only a high degree of sequence conservation (CITATION) but unusual features located within the 5′ region of the genes. Translation is annotated to initiate at a Met located at corresponding locations within both genes, and the amino acid sequences immediately following the predicted initiator codon in both genes showed sequence divergence, consistent with their predicted function as targeting presequences. However, within the predicted untranslated leader region (UTR) sequence immediately adjacent to the initiator Met of each gene, a surprising level of nucleotide, amino acid, and reading frame conservation was apparent (Figure 1). The observed sequence conservation within a region not predicted to be translationally active was unexpected. [[FIGURE]] We reasoned two possible explanations for sequence alignment upstream of the translation start codon of two homologous, unlinked genes. One explanation is that the second gene copy arose by relatively recent gene duplication, so that sequence divergence within the UTR is not yet extensive. Alternatively, the predicted UTR sequence might be a functional part of the gene. We were able to identify within the rice (Oryza sativa) genome sequence database two genes that appeared to represent homologs of Arabidopsis POLγ1 and POLγ2. Both rice genes were also predicted to encode organellar DNA polymerase proteins. As in the case of Arabidopsis, the two rice genes shared a high degree of amino acid sequence similarity and likely arose by gene duplication. More importantly, the annotated UTR sequence of both rice genes, when compared as translated sequences, showed even more extensive predicted amino acid sequence alignment than was observed in Arabidopsis (Figure 1). Gaps in the alignment seemed to occur in nucleotide triplets, again supporting our assumption that this region is translated. These observations suggest that the sequences annotated as UTRs in both rice and Arabidopsis genes likely function as part of the genes, perhaps as amino acid coding sequence. To investigate the function of the identified putative UTR sequences of POLγ1 and POLγ2 in Arabidopsis, we conducted organellar protein targeting experiments that used the green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter gene in leaf particle bombardment assays analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy. Gene sequences that encode only the predicted initiator Met and targeting presequence of POLγ1 (clone TP1) and POLγ2 (clone TP2) proteins, 100 and 113 amino acids in length, respectively, were fused to the GFP reporter and expressed under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. The results suggested that POLγ1 was dual targeted to mitochondria and plastids and POLγ2 was targeted to plastids only. These results were previously shown with particle bombardment (CITATION), and similar results obtained by stable transformation are shown for POLγ2 in Figure 2A (POLγ1 data not shown). Chloroplast targeting conferred by the POLγ2 targeting presequence was most pronounced within the smaller plastids found in epidermal cells but was also evident in a green/yellow coloration of mature plastids within subepidermal cells. [[FIGURE]] When the CaMV 35S promoter was replaced by the native promoter and UTR sequences from the corresponding genes, the POLγ1 protein chimera retained its dual-targeting features (data not shown), but the POLγ2 protein, previously shown to be plastid targeting, now showed mitochondrial or dual targeting (Figures 2B to 2D). In young, meristematic tissue of 1-mm leaves, we observed clear evidence of dual targeting (Figures 2B and 2C), whereas in mature leaves of the same line, plastid targeting was not evident (Figures 2B and 2D). This observation suggests a lower level of gene expression in mature leaves, complicating the visualization of plastid targeting over background autofluorescence. Together, our observations suggested a functional influence of the sequences upstream of the predicted initiator codon in protein targeting, at least in the case of POLγ2. To investigate the influence of sequences upstream of POLγ2 on protein targeting, we developed several constructs. The first construct, designated CP2, contained 294 nucleotides of the sequence immediately upstream of the annotated initiator ATG. Specifically, this construct was designed to contain the POLγ2 targeting presequence together with the putative native promoter/UTR sequence, fused to GFP and placed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. The 294-nucleotide stretch is predicted to contain no alternative upstream ATG codons (data not shown). This construct was in keeping with the truncated constructs described below with which it was compared. To more carefully test the requirements for translation initiation of the POLγ2 sequence, directed mutations were introduced to the 294-nucleotide CP2 clone. The first three mutations, producing clones CP2*-27, CP2*-16, and CP2*-5, introduced stop codons at predicted in-frame amino acids 27, 16, and 5, respectively, upstream of the annotated initiator Met codon. Each stop codon change involved the substitution of a single nucleotide (Figure 3). [[FIGURE]] These four constructs were used in Arabidopsis leaf particle bombardment experiments with protein localization assessed by confocal laser scanning microscopy. The results of these experiments are shown in Figure 4. We found that the 35S promoter driving the expression of the 294-nucleotide UTR, together with the predicted targeting presequence, directed dual targeting of the protein (Figure 4A, clone CP2). This result was consistent with that obtained with the native promoter (Figure 2) and implied that translation initiation occurs upstream of the annotated Met. Bombardment analysis of clones CP2*-27 and CP2*-16 also resulted in dual targeting of GFP (Figure 4B; CP2*-27 data not shown). However, clone CP2*-5 resulted in plastid localization of GFP (Figure 4C). These results indicate that translation initiation occurs within the interval of in-frame amino acids 5 to 15 upstream of the annotated Met to produce dual targeting. Interruption by a stop codon in this interval apparently results in translation initiation only at the annotated initiator Met, producing plastid targeting, as shown in Figure 2. [[FIGURE]] The sequence upstream of the annotated initiator Met is as follows: −16 −15 −14 −13 −12 −11 −10 −9 −8 −7 −6 −5 −4 −3 −2 −1 +1 +2 +3, CGA CTC TGT CGT CAC TTC TCC TTC AAG CTG GGT AGA TTA AGT TCG CTT ATG GCC ATG, with the most probable plant non-AUG start codon underlined (CITATION). This CTG resides favorably relative to Kozak consensus predictions, with a purine (A) at position −3 and a G at position +4 (CITATION). To confirm that the upstream interval in question had the potential to confer dual targeting, three additional constructs were developed (Figure 3). The first, designated CP4M, truncated the upstream region up to 87 nucleotides (29 codons) immediately upstream of the annotated initiator ATG, making up approximately half of the UTR sequence and converting the ATA at codon −30 to an ATG. The addition of the ATG ensures translation of this interval. This construct, placed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter, truncates the UTR to the interval that shows alignment between POLγ1 and POLγ2. The second construct, CPU4M, contained only the 87-nucleotide UTR sequence plus an artificially added ATG, fused to GFP under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter, but without the predicted targeting presequence located downstream of the annotated initiation site. The third construct, CP4*M, was identical to CP4M but contained a stop codon (TGA) introduced 15 nucleotides (5 codons) upstream of the annotated initiator ATG. This construct was again designed to assess the translational activity of the truncated UTR sequence and involved the identical nucleotide substitution as clone CP2*-5. Protein targeting results from clone CP4M indicated dual targeting of GFP (Figure 4D), confirming that the dual-targeting capacity that we observed previously is conferred by translation of the sequence immediately upstream of the annotated initiator Met. Bombardment with clone CPU4M produced mitochondrial targeting of GFP, suggesting that the upstream UTR sequence encodes a mitochondrial targeting sequence (Figure 4E). No GFP expression was detected with clone CP4*M, based on four independent experiments of five leaves each (data not shown). This observation is consistent with the known negative effects of introducing short open reading frames upstream of coding regions (CITATION; CITATION), indicating that most or all translation initiates at the artificially introduced Met codon. Because all of our results suggested that the annotated Met codon might not serve as a primary site for the initiation of translation, we were interested to learn whether this Met codon was dispensable for translation of the gene. We postulated that the Met codon might participate in alternative translation initiation, whereby an upstream non-ATG initiator gives rise to a mitochondrial product, whereas initiation at the ATG results in a plastid product. We also wished to learn whether disruption of the ATG would affect the production of the upstream-derived mitochondrial product. The annotated translation initiation site contains two Met (ATG) codons separated by a single Ala (GCC). We developed construct CP2-M1,3L by altering CP2 to substitute Leu (TTG) for the two Met (ATG) codons located at the annotated start of the gene (Figure 3). The results from this construct were intriguing. Bombardment with clone CP2-M1,3L resulted in extremely low-efficiency (<1%) GFP production, with only three expressing cells detected from four independent bombardment experiments of at least 12 leaves each, and GFP expression levels were markedly lower than normal. Within the three GFP-expressing cells, protein localization was mitochondrial (Figure 4F). This observation, confirmed with three independent clones, is important to our study in two respects. From these results we assume that dual targeting in POLγ2 arises by alternative translation initiation, so that amino acid substitution of the initiator Met eliminates plastid targeting and results in a mitochondrially targeted protein. Of particular interest, however, is the additional observation that the annotated initiator Met seems to be important for efficient translation overall. Our results suggest that the efficiency of upstream non-ATG translation for a mitochondrially targeted product was also affected by disruption of these downstream ATG codons. Whether this change in translation efficiency is attributable to altered secondary structure caused by the introduced mutations has not yet been determined. It is also possible that mRNA stability is reduced as a result of this change. When both the +1 and +3 ATG codons are eliminated, there are no other ATG codons in the first exon, and the first ATG codon in the second exon is out of frame, leading to a premature stop codon. Although upstream non-ATG initiation appears to be quite efficient, the elimination of these two in-frame ATG codons in exon 1 may lead to nonsense-mediated decay. It is known that in-frame nonsense codons are not required for nonsense-mediated decay (CITATION) and that leaky scanning resulting in initiation at a downstream out-of-frame ATG can also result in nonsense-mediated decay (CITATION). With the introduction of stop codons, we were able to delimit at least one translation initiation site to the −5 to −15 codon interval upstream of the annotated ATG. To more directly test the CTG at the −7 codon position for translation initiation activity, we modified the CP2 clone to produce two additional gene constructs. The first, CP2L-7L, converted the CTG to CTC (both code for Leu), and the second, CP2L-7M, converted the CTG to ATG. Particle bombardment experiments with these two constructs suggested that the CTG at position −7 is the likely site of translation initiation. The CP2L-7L clone, which changes the CTG to CTC, a less suitable non-AUG initiation codon, showed only chloroplast targeting (Figure 4G). Eliminating the initiation of translation at the CTG at codon −7 results in the same targeting pattern as allowing initiation to occur at the annotated ATG by deleting the UTR. Changing the CTG codon at −7 to an ATG still produced dual targeting (Figure 4H), indicating that translation initiation likely occurs at this site, whether a CTG or an ATG is present. One alternative explanation for the observed translation initiation at a non-ATG start codon is transcript splicing within the UTR. Such splicing could introduce an ATG within the transcript that is not detected by genomic sequence analysis. Sequences from three independent cDNA clones (see Methods) and RT-PCR amplification of the UTR interval confirmed that this region does not undergo transcript splicing, and the mRNA sequence was identical to the genomic sequence for the 294-bp interval preceding the annotated ATG (data not shown). The CTG-to-CTC result also rules out the hypothesis that an alternative ATG codon is spliced to the message, because this change would have no effect on translation initiating at an upstream ATG. With a dual-domain, dual-targeting presequence in POLγ2, and the apparent similarity in sequences upstream of the annotated ATG start codons for the rice homologs (Figure 1), we surmise that one means of protein dual-targeting evolution might be the translational incorporation of sequences upstream of an original translation initiation site. If this is the case, additional genes might exist encoding organellar proteins that display in-frame sequences upstream of the annotated start codon. These sequences, when artificially appended to the open reading frame, would be expected to alter protein targeting features. To date, aside from the genes mentioned in rice (Figure 1) and an organellar RNA polymerase (CITATION; CITATION), we have identified additional candidates likely to initiate at non-ATG start codons to confer protein targeting specificity. Three of these genes are listed in Table 1. Plant Loci Identified in Silico as Likely Candidates for Protein Targeting Influenced by Sequences Upstream of the Annotated Met In the case of Arabidopsis MutS Homolog 1 (MSH1) (previously designated CHM), we tested whether the gene likely initiates translation from a codon upstream of the annotated ATG by developing a gene construct that incorporates only the predicted targeting presequence starting with the annotated ATG as well as a gene construct that includes additional upstream sequence. GFP was used as the reporter gene; the constructs were under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter, and particle bombardment was used for transgene delivery. Results of these experiments are shown in Figure 5. [[FIGURE]] AtMSH1 translation initiation at the annotated ATG resulted in predominantly mitochondrial targeting of the protein, although a few plastids were evident in some experiments (Figure 5A). Inclusion of the predicted UTR sequence resulted in dual targeting of the protein (Figure 5B). These results suggest that the identified upstream region likely influences targeting features of this protein. Mutation of the MSH1 gene results in both a mitochondrial and a plastid phenotype (CITATION; CITATION). In the case of accession At3g10270, encoding a DNA gyrase subunit B, protein targeting predictions suggest that translation initiation of this gene at the annotated start codon provides no targeting specificity (Table 1). This was confirmed by GFP targeting experiments (Figure 5C). Interestingly, addition of upstream UTR sequence, together with an artificially introduced ATG, resulted in mitochondrial targeting, with some level of plastid targeting evident (Figure 5E). Without the addition of the ATG at the 5′ end of the UTR, cytoplasmic localization resulted (Figure 5D). Similar experiments conducted with the DNA helicase gene (At3g51690) resulted in identical results to those of gyrase B (data not shown). We interpret this outcome as an indication that upstream sequences may be important to protein localization. However, in the case of gyrase B and helicase, we likely included an upstream region that was too limited, providing inadequate leader sequence for proper initiation and necessitating the introduction of an artificial start codon in both cases (CITATION). Our observations may also relate to those reported by CITATION, in which the omission or substitution of even one or two codons at the N terminus of a targeting presequence could render an organelle-targeted protein cytoplasmic.
!~MM~! Preparation of gene constructs containing the targeting presequence for both POLγ1 and POLγ2, in association with the CaMV 35S promoter, was performed as described by CITATION. The corresponding native promoter constructs were prepared by amplifying 330 bp of upstream sequence for POLγ1 and 1022 bp of upstream sequence for POLγ2 together with the entire predicted targeting presequence of each gene. PCR amplifications used forward primer 5′-CCCTGCAGGAGAGTTTTCGTGTTCCCCAT-3′ and reverse primer 5′-GTTCCGCCAACTGTGAAACAAGTCATGACC-3′ for POLγ1 and forward primer 5′-CCGTCGACATCACAGAGACGGAGAAACC-3′ and reverse primer 5′-GGTCATGACTACCTCCGTCTGATTTCCAAC-3′ for POLγ2. Constructs involving truncated versions of the POLγ2 native promoter were prepared using the following PCR primer combinations: CP2 (−294bp+TP), forward primer 5′-CCTCATGATTTGACAGAGCAATGCAATCT-3′ and reverse primer 5′-GGTCATGACTACCTCCGTCTGATTTCCAAC-3′; CP4M (−87bp+TP), forward primer 5′-CCTCATGACGACAAAATTCGCCACCATA-3′ and reverse primer 5′-GGTCATGACTACCTCCGTCTGATTTCCAAC-3′; CPU4M (−87bp-TP), forward primer 5′-CCCCATGGCGACAAAATTCGCCACCATA-3′ and reverse primer 5′-CCCCATGGCCATAAGCGAACTT-3′. PCR products were ligated to the pGEM cloning vector (Promega) for DNA sequence confirmation and then transferred to vector pCAMBIA1302 or modified pCAMBIA1302 (minus the CaMV 35S promoter) (http://www.cambia.org). Introduction of a stop codon to clone CP4M to create CP4*M was performed using a one-step overlap extension PCR method described by CITATION. The modification of clone CP4M to create CP4*M was performed by introducing an A-to-T substitution 15 nucleotides upstream of the ATG. Constructs of the mutant derivatives of CP2 were made using overlapping PCR as described by CITATION. The primers CP2-F1 (5′-TCGGTACCCGGGGATCCTCTAGAGT-3′) and CP2-R1 (5′-GTCAGATCTACCATGACTACCTCCGTCTG-3′) were used in each case to amplify the region from upstream of the PstI site in pCAMBIA1302 to downstream of the BglII site, which encompassed the entire Polγ2 insert. Mutants of this region were constructed using overlapping PCR. In each case, the region between CP2-F1 and the mutagenic reverse primer, and the region between CP2-R1 and the mutagenic forward primer, were amplified. The amplification products were gel-purified, mixed together, and used as template for reamplification with CP2-F1 and CP2-R1 only. The products of this reaction were gel-purified, digested with PstI and BglII, and ligated to PstI-BglII–digested pCAMBIA1302. DNA sequences for all clones were verified. The mutagenic primers were as follows, with the nucleotide change noted in boldface. To change the Lys at codon position −27 to a stop, we used K-27* forward (5′-GGAACGATAACGACATAATTCGCCACC-3′) and K-27* reverse (5′-GGTGGCGAATTATGTCGTTATCGTTCC-3′). To change the Arg at codon position −16 to a stop, we used R-16* forward (5′-CCTATTTTTAATCTCTGACTCTGTCGTC-3′) and R-16* reverse (5′-GACGACAGAGTCAGAGATTAAAAATAGG-3′). To change the Arg at codon position −5 to a stop, we used R-5* forward (5′-CTTCAAGCTGGGTTGATTAAGTTCGC-3′) and R-5* reverse (5′-GCGAACTTAATCAACCCAGCTTGAAG-3′). To change the ATG codons at positions +1 and +3 to Leu codons, we used M1LM3L forward (5′-GATTAAGTTCGCTTTTGGCCTTGGGGGTTTC-3′) and M1LM3L reverse (5′-GAAACCCCCAAGGCCAAAAGCGAACTTAATC-3′). To change the CTG Leu codon at position −7 to a CTC codon, we used L-7L forward (5′-CGTCACTTCTCCTTCAAGCTCGGTAGATTAAGTTCGC-3′) and L-7L reverse (5′-GCGAACTTAATCTACCGAGCTTGAAGGAGAAGTGACG-3′). To change the CTG Leu codon at position −7 to an ATG codon, we used L-7M forward (5′-CGTCACTTCTCCTTCAAGATGGGTAGATTAAGTTCGC-3′) and L-7M reverse (5′-GCGAACTTAATCTACCCATCTTGAAGGAGAAGTGACG-3′). Constructs for accessions At3g24323 (AtMSH1) and At3g10270 (DNA gyrase subunit B) were created using the same methods described above with the following primers. For AtMSH1 UTR and targeting presequence, forward primer 5′-GGCCATGGTGTGAATTGCATAGTGGTCG-3′ and reverse primer 5′-GGCCATGGAAACATCACTTGACGTCTTC-3′; for AtMSH1 annotated start ATG and targeting presequence, forward primer 5′-CACCATGCATTGGATTGCTACCAG-3′ and reverse primer 5′-AGTGAGAACATCACTTGACGT-3′; for Gyrase UTR+M, forward primer 5′-CACCATGCCATTATTCACATTTGGTTTCAGG-3′; for Gyrase UTR, forward primer 5′-CACCCCATTATTCACATTTGGTTTCAGG-3′; for Gyrase annotated start ATG, forward primer 5′-CACCATGGAGTCTCTCCAAGAGAGCTCT-3′; the reverse primer used in all gyrase constructs was 5′-TGAAGCAAAACCAGCTTGGGCCT-3′. Control constructs for mitochondrial (targeting presequence of the F0F1 ATPase γ-subunit gene AtpG) and plastid (transit peptide sequence of the Rubisco small subunit gene RbcS) targeting were graciously provided by D. Stern and L. Allison (CITATION). In separate experiments, 7 μg of DNA from individual constructs was delivered into 4-week-old leaves of Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) using tungsten particles and the Biolistic PDS-1000/He system (Bio-Rad). Particles were bombarded into Arabidopsis leaves using 900 p.s.i. rupture discs under a vacuum of 26 inches of Hg. After bombardment, Arabidopsis leaves were allowed to recover for 18 to 22 h on Murashige and Skoog medium plates at 22°C in 16 h of light before assaying GFP expression. Stable transformants were produced using the floral dip method (CITATION). Localization of GFP expression was conducted by laser scanning confocal microscopy using 488- and 633-nm excitation and two-channel measurement of emission, 522 nm (green/GFP) and 680 nm (red/chlorophyll). Plant extracts were prepared by grinding in liquid nitrogen and adding the powder to 1× SDS sample buffer without dyes (62.5 mM Tris, pH 6.8, 2% SDS, 5% 2-mercaptoethanol, and 10% glycerol); 0.5 mL of this was added per gram of wet weight. The sample was boiled for 15 min and centrifuged, and the supernatant was subjected to gel electrophoresis. The gel was 12.5% polyacrylamide, run at 120 V for 15 min, then at 140 V until the 29-kD marker was near the bottom. Protein transfer to membrane was in Tris-Gly-15% methanol to polyvinylidene difluoride membranes. Blocking was in Tris-buffered saline, 4% milk, and 0.05% Tween 20 at 4°C overnight. Primary antibody was a mixture of two mouse monoclonal anti-GFP antibodies (clones 7.1 and 13.1; Roche Diagnostics). The secondary antibody was goat anti-mouse (IgG + IgM) peroxidase-conjugated antibody. Detection was with the Pierce SuperSignal West Pico Chemiluminescent substrate. The search for N-terminal and amino acid sequence similarities was performed with BLAST (CITATION, CITATION) through GenBank and MatDB (http://mips.gsf.de/proj/thal/db/index.html) (CITATION). Rice (Oryza sativa) sequence information was obtained by BLASTX analysis of The Institute for Genomic Research rice genome database. Presequence/transit peptide predictions were performed using Predotar (http://www.inra.fr/predotar/), TargetP (http://www.cbsdtu.dk/services/TargetP/), PSORT (http://psort.nibb.ac.jp/form.html), and iPSORT (http://hypothesiscreator.net/iPSORT/). A computer program was developed to generate random sequences 40 amino acids in length. Care was taken to conserve the relative amino acid frequencies within the sequences according to the genetic code without consideration of Arabidopsis codon usage bias. The output of the program was directed to the faceless version of Predotar (http://www.inra.fr/predotar/) for targeting predictions. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers At3g20540 (POLγ1) and At1g50840 (POLγ2). The three independent POLγ2 cDNA sequences used in this study were accessions AY091072, AF46286, and AV831550.
