!~ABS~! The DELLA proteins GAI, RGA, RGL1 and RGL2 in Arabidopsis are plant growth repressors, repressing diverse developmental processes. Studies have shown that gibberellin (GA) attenuates the repressive function of DELLA proteins by triggering their degradation via the proteasome pathway. However, it is not known if GA-induced protein degradation is the only pathway for regulating the bioactivity of DELLA proteins. We show here that tobacco BY2 cells represent a suitable system for studying GA signaling. RGL2 exists in a phosphorylated form in BY2 cells. RGL2 undergoes GA-induced degradation, and this process is blocked by proteasome inhibitors and serine/threonine phosphatase inhibitors; however, serine/threonine kinase inhibitors had no detectable effect, suggesting that dephosphorylation of serine/threonine is probably a prerequisite for degradation of RGL2 via the proteasome pathway. Site-directed substitution of all 17 conserved serine and threonine residues showed that six mutants (RGL2S441D, RGL2S542D, RGL2T271E, RGL2T319E, RGL2T411E and RGL2T535E) mimicking the status of constitutive phosphorylation are resistant to GA-induced degradation. This suggests that these sites are potential phosphorylation sites. A functional assay based on the expression of GA 20-oxidase revealed that RGL2T271E is probably a null mutant, RGL2S441D, RGL2S542D, RGL2T319E and RGL2T411E only retained about 4–17% of the activity of the wild type RGL2, whereas RGL2T535E retained about 66% of the activity of the wild type RGL2. However, expression of GA 20-oxidase in BY2 cells expressing these mutant proteins is still responsive to GA, suggesting that the stabilization of RGL2 protein is not the only pathway for regulating its bioactivity.
!~RES~! Previous genetic studies have shown that Arabidopsis RGA, GAI and RGL2, rice SLR1 and barley SLN1 proteins are downregulated upon treatment with GA (Fu et al., 2002, 2004; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) and that alterations in the DELLA or HYNP regions convert DELLA proteins into constitutive repressors of the response to GA (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; Peng et al., 1997, 1999). Further biochemical studies showed that these alterations result in mutant proteins which are resistant to GA-induced degradation (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To reconfirm whether RGL2 protein is downregulated by GA, we overexpressed (under the control of estrogen-inducible promoter) RGL2 and DELLA-deleted RGL2 (RGL2ΔDELLA) in the RGL2-knockout allele rgl2-5. Leaves overexpressing RGL2 and RGL2ΔDELLA were treated with or without 10−4 m GA for 6 h and protein extract was examined by immunoblotting using anti-RGL2 polyclonal antibody. GA treatment resulted in a significant reduction in the accumulation of RGL2 protein, whilst the accumulation of RGL2ΔDELLA mutant protein was not affected (Figure 1a). Interestingly, as has been observed for RGA-Δ17 by CITATION, two protein bands appeared in RGL2ΔDELLA samples (Figure 1a). Unfortunately, we cannot determine the identity of the higher band at this time. Previous studies have shown that overexpression of DELLA proteins resulted in the elevated expression of some genes for GA biosynthesis (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) via the negative-feedback regulatory pathway (CITATION; CITATION). One such gene is GA5, encoding GA 20-oxidase, that catalyzes a rate-limiting step in the GA biosynthesis pathway (CITATION). An RT-PCR experiment showed that overexpression of either wild-type RGL2 or RGL2ΔDELLA increased the transcript level of GA 20-oxidase in Arabidopsis (Figure 1b). GA treatment drastically downregulated the transcript level of GA20-oxidase in transgenic plants overexpressing wild-type RGL2 but failed to do so in plants overexpressing RGL2ΔDELLA (Figure 1b). In fact, the level of GA20-oxidase transcripts in the GA-treated plants was slightly higher than that in the untreated ones. These results suggest that RGL2 protein functions as an effective repressor of the GA signaling pathway and that the DELLA domain is important for the responsiveness of RGL2 to GA (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Cell lines have been routinely used to study cellular signaling in humans and mice because these cell lines retain the in vivo response to different extracellular factors, such as hormones, growth factors, cytokines etc. In plants, suspension cell lines such as tobacco BY2 cells have been used to study certain cellular processes such as the cell cycle (CITATION; CITATION). To facilitate the study of the molecular and biochemical mechanism of the response of RGL2 protein to GA, we sought to use the BY2 cell line as the experimental system. However, there are very few reports on the use of plant cell lines to study the signaling of plant hormones or growth regulators (CITATION). To determine if BY2 cells retain their in planta GA response, stably transformed BY2RGL2 cells were obtained and treated with GA as well as paclobutrazol (PAC, an inhibitor of GA biosynthesis) and the content of RGL2 in total protein extract was examined by immunoblotting. Treatment with GA resulted in the disappearance of RGL2 whilst treatment with PAC (2 h) slightly enhanced the accumulation of RGL2 (Figure 1c). The GA-induced disappearance of RGL2 protein was most likely a result of protein degradation, because the level of RGL2 transcript remained unchanged upon GA treatment (data not shown). In contrast, RGL2Y52A, a mutant with substitution of Tyr52 to alanine in the DELLA domain of RGL2, was resistant to GA-induced degradation in BY2 cells (Figure 7c, lower two panels), as was RGL2ΔDELLA in Arabidopsis (Figure 1a). To determine whether the negative feedback regulation of GA 20-oxidase expression by RGL2 is still effective in BY2 cells, we treated vector-transformed BY2 cells (mock) and BY2 cells expressing RGL2 or RGL2Y52A with GA, respectively, and determined the transcript levels of GA 20-oxidase. We found that overexpression of RGL2 or RGL2Y52A both enhanced the expression of GA 20-oxidase (Figure 7c, top two panels). Treatment with GA antagonized the effect of the wild-type RGL2, whereas the elevated expression of GA 20-oxidase in RGL2Y52A BY2 cells was only partially downregulated by treatment with GA (Figure 7c, top two panels). These results demonstrate that GA signaling is functional in BY2 cells in terms of regulation of the stability of RGL2 by GA as well as in modulating the expression of GA biosynthesis genes by RGL2. We therefore assumed that the BY2 cell line can serve as a suitable experimental system for studying the molecular and biochemical mechanisms of GA signaling mediated by RGL2 or other DELLA proteins. [[FIGURE]] The proteins GAI, RGL1, RGA and SLR1 are localized in the nucleus (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine whether RGL2 is also localized in the nucleus, an RGL2–GFP (GFP, green fluorescent protein) fusion construct was transformed into BY2 cells. Imaging analysis of the BY2RGL2-GFP stable cell line showed that RGL2–GFP is not only clearly localized in the nucleus but also disappears from the nuclei of BY2 cells upon treatment with GA (Figure 2a). [[FIGURE]] Previous studies of the regulation by DELLA proteins of the response to GA have used whole plant tissues such as Arabidopsis, rice and barley, or their seeds. Studies on the kinetics of GA-induced degradation of DELLA proteins have not been reported, probably due to the difficulty of manipulation and the lack of homogeneity of such experimental systems (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The BY2 cell system has allowed us to study the kinetics of GA-induced degradation of RGL2 protein. We first examined the half-life of RGL2 in the absence of GA. The level of RGL2 protein was significantly reduced but was still detectable 4 h after treatment with cycloheximide (CHX), a chemical blocking protein biosynthesis (Figure 2b). In contrast, an immunoblotting assay showed that RGL2 protein disappeared within 10 min of treatment of BY2RGL2 cells with 10−4 m GA (Figure 2c). Interestingly, we noticed that the degradation of RGL2–GFP fusion protein was more resistant to GA treatment than the wild-type RGL2 protein (Figure 2c), suggesting that GFP somehow stabilized the RGL2 protein in response to GA. In fact, GFP is also found to stabilize GAI protein in transgenic plants (CITATION; CITATION). Meanwhile, a GA concentration as low as 10−7 m (around physiological concentration) was sufficient to achieve substantial degradation of RGL2 protein (Figure 2d). The GA-induced degradation of RGA, GAI, SLN1 and SLR1 has recently been shown to engage a proteasome complex (CITATION; Fu et al., 2002, 2004; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We tested whether GA-induced degradation of RGL2 protein is also mediated through a proteasome pathway. In the presence of 20 μm MG132 (an inhibitor of proteasome complexes), the degradation of RGL2 protein is significantly retarded at 5 × 10−7 m GA, whilst a higher GA concentration (10−4 m GA) overcame the effect of MG132 (Figure 3a). A cocktail of three proteasome inhibitors, namely MG132 (20 μm), lactacystein (10 μm) and epoxomicin (10 μm), strongly inhibited the degradation of RGL2 protein at concentrations of both 5 × 10−7 m and 10−4 m GA (Figure 3a). On the other hand, a cocktail of potent membrane-permeable protease inhibitors (P8849; Sigma, St Louis, MO, USA) failed to block the degradation of RGL2 protein in GA-treated cells (data not shown), suggesting that proteases are probably not involved in GA-induced degradation of RGL2 protein. [[FIGURE]] Previous reports have shown that GA-induced degradation of the barley DELLA protein SLN1 is blocked by inhibitors of serine/threonine phosphatases as well as by inhibitors of tyrosine kinases and phosphatases, indicating the involvement of the protein phosphorylation cascade in GA signaling (CITATION). A cocktail of two inhibitors of serine/threonine phosphatases, consisting of okadaic acid (1 μm) and cypermethin (10 nm), significantly inhibited degradation of RGL2 protein at a concentration of 5 × 10−7 m GA but was ineffective at 10−4 m GA (Figure 3b), displaying a pattern similar to the effect of 50 μm MG132 (Figure 3a). In contrast, an inhibitor cocktail of serine/threonine kinases [comprising 50 μm staurosporine, 5 ng ml−1 of bisindolylmaleimide and 20 ng ml−1 of H-89, KN-93 and ML-7, obtained from Calbiochem (Merck Biosciences, Darmstadt, Germany)] did not have any obvious effect on GA-induced degradation of RGL2 protein (Figure 3c). These results suggest that GA treatment possibly leads to dephosphorylation of specific serine and/or threonine residue(s) of RGL2 or of other GA-signaling factors needed to trigger RGL2 degradation. Targeting proteins for proteasome-mediated degradation often requires modulation of phosphorylation at specific tyrosine, serine or threonine residues of the target proteins (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). A recent report suggested that a phosphorylation–dephosphorylation cascade might play a role in the degradation of barley SLN1, whilst Arabidopsis gai mutant protein and rice SLR1 protein have also been shown to exist in phosphorylated form (Fu et al., 2002, 2004; CITATION). We therefore sought to determine whether RGL2 protein exists at all in a phosphorylated form. RGL2 protein tagged with polyhistidine at the C-terminal end was purified from BY2RGL2 cells using Ni-NTA agarose resins. Treatment of the purified protein with alkaline phosphatase resulted in a reduction in the molecular size of RGL2 protein on immunoblotting, demonstrating that RGL2 protein, by default, exists in a phosphorylated form (Figure 3d). Sequence alignment of nine known DELLA proteins from Arabidopsis (GAI, RGA, RGL1, RGL2, RGL3) and other plant species including barley (SLN1), rice (SLR1), wheat (RHT1) and maize (d8) identified 12 serine and five threonine (Figure 4) residues conserved among all members. We hypothesized that one or more of these conserved serine and threonine residues might be potential sites for phosphoryl modification in response to GA. In order to investigate how important these conserved serine/threonine residues are for the stability of RGL2, we mutated these sites using a site-directed mutagenesis method. [[FIGURE]] Since phosphorylation normally introduces a negative charge and this physical charge may sometimes be critical in determining the function of the phosphorylated protein (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we substituted all conserved serine (S) and threonine (T) residues with negatively charged aspartic acid (D) and glutamatic acid (E), respectively. BY2 cell lines stably expressing each of these mutant proteins were obtained and used to examine their responsiveness to treatment with GA. Mutant proteins can be classified into three groups based on their sensitivity to treatment with GA. The first group, which includes mutations at two serine sites (S441D and S542D) and four threonine sites (T271E, T319E, T411E and T535E), was resistant to GA-induced degradation even at a high GA concentration of 10−4 m (Figure 5a,b) and was considered most important in determining the stability of RGL2 protein in the face of GA treatment. The second group, namely S57D, S86D and S508D, was degraded at a concentration of 10−4 m GA but was not obviously affected by 5 × 10−7 m GA. The remaining mutant proteins belong to the third group and resemble the wild-type control that is degraded upon treatment with concentrations of both 5 × 10−7 and 10−4 m GA (Figure 5a,b). We then substituted the first group (most important in GA sensitivity) of conserved serine/threonine residues, namely S441, S542, T271, T319, T411 and T535, with cysteine (C), supposedly a conservative substitution such that the mutant proteins might mimic the constitutively unphosphorylated status of RGL2. The resulting mutant proteins behaved like the wild-type RGL2 protein and underwent degradation upon treatment with GA and were sensitive to serine/threonine phosphatase inhibitors, except for RGL2T271C which was relatively less sensitive at a low GA concentration (5 × 10−7 m) (Figure 5c,d). Since substitution of S/T with D/E supposedly mimics the constitutive phosphorylation status of the target protein (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), the result obtained suggested that phosphorylation, if any, on one or more these serine or threonine residues might stabilize RGL2 protein, whilst dephosphorylation of RGL2 is probably necessary for GA-induced degradation of RGL2 protein. In fact, these results are consistent with the observation that serine/threonine phosphatase inhibitors block the GA-induced degradation of RGL2. These residues were hence considered to be potential sites for phosphoryl modification. In some cases, phosphorylated protein migrates more slowly on an SDS-PAGE gel, probably due to the introduction of the negatively charged phosphate group (CITATION). However, on an SDS-PAGE gel, the electrophoretic migration of purified RGL2S441C, RGL2S542C, RGL2T271C, RGL2T319C, RGL2T411C and RGL2T535C mutant proteins did not show any obvious difference when compared with the wild-type RGL2 protein (Figure 6a). When purified mutant proteins were treated with alkaline phosphatase, the migration of all these mutant proteins was faster than that of their counterparts treated with heat-inactivated alkaline phosphatase on the SDS-PAGE gel (Figure 6b), suggesting that RGL2 may exist in a multiply phosphorylated form or that these residues may not be the actual sites for phosphorylation. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As shown above, mutations at six conserved serine/threonine sites stabilized the mutant RGL2 proteins against GA-induced degradation. Naturally, the question arises of whether any of these mutant proteins still retains the repressive bioactivity of RGL2 like that observed for RGL2ΔDELLA (Figure 1b). To study this possibility, levels of transcript of GA 20-oxidase in BY2 cells expressing these mutant proteins were compared with those in BY2 cells expressing the wild-type RGL2 and RGL2Y52A in the absence of GA. The result showed that RGL2T271E is probably a loss-of-function mutation, since RT-PCR failed to detect any increase in levels of GA 20-oxidase (Figure 7a,b). Meanwhile, the bioactivities of RGL2S441D, RGL2S542D, RGL2T319E and RGL2T411E were severely compromised and these mutants only retain approximately 4–17% of the activity of the wild-type RGL2 (Figure 7a,b). In contrast, RGL2T535E retained approximately 66% of the activity of the wild-type RGL2 (Figure 7a,b). The increase in expression of GA 20-oxidase in BY2 cells by these mutants was, however, abolished upon treatment with 10−5 m GA for 6 h, despite no significant change in the content of mutant proteins (Figure 7c), suggesting that these stabilized mutant proteins may not be able to serve as constitutive repressors of the response to GA, which is opposite to what is observed for RGL2ΔDELLA and RGL2Y52A.
!~MM~! The coding region of the Arabidopsis RGL2 gene was amplified from genomic DNA by PCR and tagged with a polyhistidine tag (6× His) at the 3′ end (forward primer, 5′-CCCGGGATGAAGAGAGGATACGGAGAAACATG-3′; reverse primer, 5′-CCCGGGTCAGTGATGGTGATGGTGATGGGCGAGTTTCCACGCCGAGGTTG-3′). The XmaI restriction sequence (5′-CCCGGG-3′) was added to both primers to facilitate cloning. The PCR product was cloned into a pER8/10 vector at the XmaI site under the control of inducible human estrogen promoter (the vector was kindly provided by Professor Nam Hai Chua, Laboratory of Plant Molecular Biology, Rockefeller University, NY, USA). RGL2ΔDELLA was generated via primer-directed deletion mutagenesis using a QuickChange Site-directed Mutagenesis Kit (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA). For transformation of Arabidopsis, approximately 4-week-old rgl2-5 plants (CITATION) were infiltrated under vacuum with Agrobacterium containing the RGL2 or RGL2ΔDELLA constructs. Transgenic plants were selected on MS-agar plates containing 20 mg ml−1 hygromycin. The coding region of RGL2 genomic DNA was amplified by PCR tagged with a polyhistidine (6× His) as described in section above except that the KpnI restriction sequence was added to facilitate cloning. The amplified RGL2 sequence was cloned at the KpnI site of the pROK2 vector under the control of the 35S promoter of cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV). Primer-directed point and deletion mutations of RGL2 were carried out to generate mutant constructs using a Stratagene kit as described in section above. Cloned RGL2 and mutant constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium by electroporation. RGL2 and RGL2ΔDELLA were also fused with green fluorescent protein (GFP) at the C-terminal. The tobacco BY2 cell line was obtained from Professor Nam Hai Chua and cultured in MS medium (M5524; Sigma) supplemented with vitamin B1 (1.0 mg l−1), KH2PO4 (180.0 mg l−1), 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) (0.22 mg l−1), 2-(N-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid (MES) (0.05%) and myoinositol (100 mg l−1). All supplements were purchased from Sigma Aldrich. Cells were normally subcultured once a week by transferring 0.5 ml of old culture to 30 ml fresh medium. Cultures were incubated in the dark at 28°C in a 120 r.p.m. shaker. For transformation of BY2 cells, 10 ml of 3–5-day-old BY2 cell culture was mixed with 0.5 ml of overnight transformed Agrobacterium culture and incubated at 28°C in a 120 r.p.m. shaker for about 30 h before plating on MS–agar plates containing carbenicillin (500 mg l−1) and kanamycin (100 mg l−1) as selection markers. After about 20 days stably transformed BY2 cell clones were picked and transferred to liquid MS medium supplemented with carbenicillin (500 mg l−1) and kanamycin (100 mg l−1). RGL2 protein-expressing clones were selected by immunoblotting of the total protein extract using anti-RGL2 antibody. For raising polyclonal antibody against RGL2 protein, a cDNA fragment corresponding to amino acids 70–547 of RGL2 protein was cloned into the pQE30 vector (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) and expressed in Escherichia coli as polyhistidine (6× His)-tagged protein. Recombinant protein was purified from the insoluble fraction under denaturing conditions using TALON metal affinity resins (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA) and was used for immunizing rabbits. Serum was collected from immunized rabbits and immunoblotting (see below) was performed using E. coli-expressed RGL2 as the antigen to determine the titer and quality of the antibody. For examining the stability of RGL2 protein in Arabidopsis, freshly harvested leaves harboring the RGL2 or RGL2ΔDELLA transgene were incubated in MS–hygromycin medium, containing 10 μmβ-estradiol, for about 12 h to induce the expression of the transgene. Gibberellin (10−4 m) (gibberellin A3; Sigma) was then added for 6 h before extracting the total protein by grinding the leaves in a mortar. For BY2 cells, cells grown to about 20% density (cell mass to total culture volume) were harvested by spinning at 400 g for 2–3 min and resuspended in fresh medium at about 10% density. After growing for another 15–20 h, aliquots of cells were treated with GA or paclobutrazol (PAC, an inhibitor of GA biosynthesis) along with a proper control. Cells were then quickly harvested by centrifuging at 1000 g for 30 sec, medium was removed and denaturing protein extraction buffer (2% SDS, 50 mm Tris, pH 6.8) was added and quickly heated at 100°C for 1 min. Cells were then sonicated for 30 sec and boiled for another 3–5 min. Total protein extract was collected after centrifugation at 23 000 g. The concentration of extracted protein was estimated by a Bradford protein assay solution (BioRad, Hercules, CA, USA). An equal amount of protein extract was subjected to SDS-PAGE for immunoblotting assay as follows. Protein samples were resolved on SDS-PAGE and transferred onto Hybond ECL nitrocellulose membrane (Amersham, Little Chalfont, UK) using a semidry electroblotting system (BioRad). Protein blots were blocked in 5% milk in PBS for more than 60 min before adding primary antibody (anti-RGL2) in 1% casein hydrolysate/PBS at 2000× dilution. After incubating for about 2 h, blots were washed for about 20–30 min with washing buffer (PBS/0.05% Tween 20) with four or five changes of the washing buffer. Blots were then incubated with horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated secondary antibody in 5% milk/PBS at a dilution of 60 000 for 1 h. Subsequently, the blots were washed with washing buffer over a period of 30–45 min with six or seven changes of washing solution. Protein bands were visualized by electrochemiluminescence (ECL) reaction using the SuperSignal West Femto substrate from Pierce (Pierce Biotechnology Inc., Rockford, IL, USA). Inhibitors of serine/threonine kinases and phosphatases were purchased from Calbiochem. Inhibitors of 26S proteasome (MG132, epoxomycin and lactacystein) were also obtained from Calbiochem. For studying the effects of inhibitors of proteasome, serine/threonine kinases (STK) and phosphatases (STP) on GA-induced degradation of RGL2 protein, BY2 cells were pre-incubated with these inhibitors for 1 h before adding GA for another hour. Total cellular protein was then extracted for immunoblotting assay. For examining the expression of the GA 20-oxidase gene in Arabidopsis, the freshly harvested transgenic leaves were treated and processed as described for the assay of protein degradation. These treated leaves were used for extraction of both protein and RNA. Total RNA was extracted using Tri-Reagent solution (Molecular Research Center Inc., Cincinnati, OH, USA) and 5 μg of total RNA was converted to cDNA by reverse transcriptase reaction. Similarly, for determining the expression of GA 20-oxidase in transformed BY2 cells, BY2 cells treated with GA (10−5 m) were used for extracting both protein and RNA. For BY2 cells, poly(A)-RNA (mRNA) was extracted from total RNA using an Oligotex mRNA Midi Kit (Qiagen). Oligodinucleotide-directed cDNA was synthesized from 0.5 μg mRNA in a 20 μl reverse transcription (RT) reaction following protocol provided by the supplier (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). The obtained cDNA was used as a template for subsaturating PCR assay of GA 20-oxidase gene expression. For Arabidopsis, 25 PCR cycles were applied to amplify actin using the primers 5′-CACCGCTTAACCCGAA-3′ and 5′-GTGAGGTCACGACCAG-3′ and 24 cycles for GA 20-oxidase using primers 5′-ATGGCCGTAAGTTTCGTAACAAC-3′ and 5′-TTAGATGGGTTTGGTGAGCC-3′. In the case of BY2 cells, 29 cycles were applied to amplify actin using the primers 5′-CAGAGCGAGGCTACTCGTTCAC-3′ and 5′-CTGTGCACAATGGATGGTCCAG-3′ and 34 cycles for GA 20-oxidase using the primers 5′-GGAATGAGCCTAGGCGTAGG-3′ and 5′-TTAAACTTGTGCAGTTTTCTGTTTAAG-3′. Amplified actin PCR products were visualized and photographed under a UV transilluminator, whilst GA 20-oxiase expression was determined by Southern hybridization using a digoxigenin (DIG)-labeled gene-specific probe (Roche Applied Science, Mannheim, Germany).
