!~ABS~! Controversy exists in the literature over the involvement of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in the delivery of membrane proteins to peroxisomes. In this study, the involvement of the ER in the trafficking of two Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) peroxisomal membrane proteins was investigated using confocal laser scanning microscopy of living cells expressing fusions between enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (eYFP) and AtPEX2 and AtPEX10. The fusion proteins were always detected in peroxisomes and cytosol irrespective of the location of the eYFP tag or the level of expression. The cytosolic fluorescence was not due to cleavage of the eYFP reporter from the C-terminal fusion proteins. Blocking known ER transport routes using the fungal metabolite Brefeldin A or expressing dominant negative mutants of Sar1 or RabD2a had no effect on the trafficking of AtPEX2 and AtPEX10 to peroxisomes. We conclude that AtPEX2 and AtPEX10 are inserted into peroxisome membranes directly from the cytosol.
!~RES~! Both N- and C-terminal fusions of AtPEX2 and AtPEX10 to enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (eYFP) were expressed under the control of the 35S promoter. All four fusion proteins were located in punctate motile structures and to some extent in the cytosol when expressed transiently in tobacco epidermal cells (Fig. 1, B, E, H and K). A peroxisomal matrix marker, CFP fused to SKL (CFP-SKL; Fig. 1, C, F, I, and L), colocalized with both N- and C-terminal AtPEX2/10 fusions to eYFP (Fig. 1, A, D, G, and J). Additionally, AtPEX2 and AtPEX10 fusions to eYFP were frequently localized to the rim of the peroxisome with the matrix marker inside the peroxisome structure (Fig. 1H, arrowhead; Fig. 4, E and H; Fig. 6, D and G; Supplemental Fig. 1A). [[FIGURE]] Stable transgenic tobacco and Arabidopsis lines expressing either AtPEX2-eYFP or AtPEX10-eYFP were generated to determine whether a similar distribution of the fusion proteins was seen compared to transient expression in epidermal cells. Stable Arabidopsis plants expressing both AtPEX10-eYFP and GFP-SKL also show that AtPEX10 is present in the periphery of peroxisomes (Supplemental Fig. 1, A–C). AtPEX10-eYFP is also present in punctate motile structures in stable Arabidopsis (Supplemental Fig. 1D; Supplemental Movie 1) and tobacco (Supplemental Fig. 1E) lines. Transgenic tobacco plants expressing AtPEX2-eYFP displayed lower levels of expression than AtPEX10-eYFP plants. However, more AtPEX2-eYFP was present in the periphery of punctate motile structures the size of peroxisomes than was seen under transient expression (Supplemental Fig. 1, J–L). Stable Arabidopsis plants expressing AtPEX2-eYFP show that AtPEX2 is present in the motile punctate structures of the expected size of peroxisomes (Supplemental Fig. 1, F–I, arrowhead). With all constructs expressed under both transient and stable transformation, diffuse nonperoxisomal fluorescence was seen to differing extents (Fig. 1; Supplemental Fig. 1). Nonperoxisomal fluorescence, as well as representing the full-length fusion protein, could be due to cleavage of the eYFP from the fusion proteins, leading to accumulation of fluorescent protein in the cytosol. An anti-green fluorescent protein (GFP) antibody, which cross reacts with eYFP, was used to probe leaf extracts derived from stable tobacco transformants (Supplemental Fig. 1) that express AtPEX10-eYFP (Fig. 2A, lane 3) or AtPEX2-eYFP (Fig. 2A, lane 2). Leaf extracts from untransformed tobacco were used as controls (Fig. 2A, lane 1). A band was detected in lane 3 (Fig. 2A), indicated by an arrowhead, which was slightly smaller than the expected size of AtPEX10-eYFP (69.6 kD). However, it is known that membrane proteins often migrate anomalously in SDS-PAGE gels. In lane 2 (Fig. 2A), a slightly smaller band was detected, indicated by an arrow, consistent with the smaller size of AtPEX2-eYFP (65.2 kD). Neither band was seen in the untransformed sample (Fig. 2A, lane 1). Figure 2C shows the Ponceau S-stained blot corresponding to Figure 2A. This confirms that the amount of protein from the wild-type plants was similar to or greater than the amount of protein from the transgenic samples. Thus, the absence of anti-GFP cross-reactive bands around 62 kD in the wild-type sample confirms that the bands of this size seen in the transformed samples are the YFP fusion proteins. Total protein extracts from stable tobacco plants expressing either eYFP-AtPEX10 (Fig. 2B, lane 1) or AtPEX10-eYFP (Fig. 2B, lane 2) were probed with the anti-GFP antibody. eYFP-AtPEX10 is not stable, and both the full-length (Fig. 2B, lane 1, arrowhead) and cleaved eYFP (Fig. 2B, lane 1, diamond) were detected. Crucially, there was no band corresponding to free eYFP at around 28 kD in total protein extracts from AtPEX2-eYFP (Fig. 2A, lane 2) or AtPEX10-eYFP (Fig. 2A, lane 3; Fig. 2B, lane 2). The band around 25 kD detected in all extracts does not represent free eYFP as it was also detected in protein extracts from wild-type plants (Fig. 2A, lane 1). Therefore, both AtPEX10-eYFP and AtPEX2-eYFP are stable fusion proteins and were used for subsequent experiments. [[FIGURE]] Polyclonal serum was raised against a 26-amino acid peptide corresponding to the amino terminus of AtPEX2. The resulting antibodies were affinity purified using the peptide. Due to the low levels of AtPEX2-eYFP expression in the stable tobacco line, the affinity-purified antibody was used to probe total protein extracts from tobacco plants transiently expressing AtPEX2-eYFP under the control of the enhanced 35S promoter (Fig. 2D, lane 1). Nontransformed tissue was used as a control (Fig. 2D, lane 2). The affinity-purified antibody cross-reacts with a product close to the predicted size for native AtPEX2, 34.6 kD, in both lanes 1 and 2 (Fig. 2D, asterisk) and a band corresponding to the fusion protein, AtPEX2-eYFP, in lane 1 only (Fig. 2D, arrow). To confirm antibody specificity, the affinity-purified antibody was preincubated with peptide to titrate out the antibody. The samples loaded in lanes 3a and 3b (Fig. 2D) are identical, where lane 3a was detected with affinity-purified antibody and lane 3b was detected with affinity-purified antiserum preincubated with peptide. As expected, the level of PEX2 detected in lane 3b (Fig. 2D, asterisk) is significantly less than in lane 3a (Fig. 2D, asterisk). An additional weaker cross-reactivity with a product around 70 kD was also detected. Immunofluorescence on Arabidopsis cell culture using the AtPEX2 affinity-purified antibody results in punctate labeling (Fig. 3A) similar to that observed using antibodies against isocitrate lyase (ICL; Fig. 3B). Additionally, there was no evidence of cytosolic or reticular staining with the anti-PEX2 antibody. Dual labeling resulted in several punctate structures labeling with both anti-PEX2 and anti-ICL antibodies (see inset in Fig. 3C). [[FIGURE]] To ascertain whether AtPEX2 or AtPEX10 traffic via the ER, the first step was to determine whether the nonperoxisomal fluorescence colocalizes with an ER marker, GFP-HDEL. The cortical ER network in tobacco leaf epidermal cells forms an extensive network of polygonal tubules surrounded by the cytoplasm (Fig. 4, C, F, I, L, and O). These cells contain large vacuoles that confine the cytoplasm and organelles to the periphery of the cell (Fig. 4B). These spatial constrictions can restrict the cytosol to the region immediately surrounding the ER network (Fig. 4, B and C; see arrow) resulting in a similar yet diffuse pattern of fluorescence, or it can flow freely around other organelles in the cell, which appear in negative contrast (Fig. 4B; see arrowhead). Therefore, to be able to discern between ER and cytosolic location requires careful inspection and interpretation of the images. [[FIGURE]] N- or C-terminal fusions of AtPEX2 (Fig. 4, D–I) and AtPEX10 to eYFP (Fig. 4, J–O) were transiently expressed in stable tobacco plants expressing GFP-HDEL. The settings used on the microscope could distinguish between fluorescence from eYFP fusions and that from wild-type GFP fused to HDEL. GFP-HDEL labels the well-defined cortical ER network (Fig. 4, F, I, L, and O) and is seen in close association with the peroxisomes containing the fusion protein and the diffuse pool of peroxisomal fusion proteins (Fig. 4, D, G, J, and M). Careful analysis of the peroxisomal fusion proteins expressed in the GFP-HDEL plants showed that they did not colocalize with the ER but rather surrounded it in a diffuse pattern like that of free eYFP (compare Fig. 4, E, H, K, and N, to B). This cytosolic nature was further supported by observations of organelles in negative contrast (Fig. 4, E and N, arrowhead). Similarly, epidermal cells in stable transgenic lines expressing AtPEX2-eYFP or AtPEX10-eYFP do not show ER localization. However, it is possible that the kinetics of trafficking may be such that the steady-state levels of these peroxisomal proteins in the ER are below detection, or that low levels in the ER may be masked by the levels in the cytosol. To address this, the export of proteins from the ER was blocked and the effect on trafficking of the AtPEX2 and AtPEX10 fusion proteins investigated. Comparisons between transient and steady-state expression of AtPEX2-eYFP have shown that higher levels of the fusion protein are present in the peroxisome and less is detected in the cytosol in stably transformed lines. Therefore, subsequent studies relating to AtPEX2 trafficking were carried out using stable tobacco plants expressing AtPEX2-eYFP, since high cytosolic levels detected under transient expression could mask populations of fusion protein, which may locate to the ER upon treatment with BFA or expression of Sar1 H74L and RabD2a N121I. Studies involving AtPEX10-eYFP and a peroxisomal matrix marker, eYFP-SKL, are based on transient expression of these fusion proteins. Treatment of cells with BFA results in the redistribution of Golgi markers back to the ER (CITATION; CITATION). This is thought to be due to the disruption of COPI-mediated trafficking at the Golgi and/or Golgi ER interface. Therefore, to assess what role COPI vesicular traffic may play in the trafficking of peroxisomal markers, AtPEX2-eYFP, AtPEX10-eYFP, and a peroxisomal matrix marker eYFP-SKL were coexpressed with a Golgi marker protein and treated with BFA. Tobacco epidermal cells transiently expressing a Golgi marker, sialyltransferase fused to CFP (ST-CFP), and a peroxisomal marker were treated with BFA (100 μg/mL) for 30 min. The Golgi marker acts as an internal control as BFA treatment should result in the redistribution of this marker to the ER. Images were taken prior to BFA treatment and then after 30 min incubation in BFA. Figure 5 shows that prior to treatment ST-CFP and the peroxisomal markers, AtPEX2-eYFP (Fig. 5A), AtPEX10-eYFP (Fig. 5B), and a peroxisomal matrix marker eYFP-SKL (Fig. 5C), label punctate structures. ST-CFP (green) and the peroxisomal markers (magenta) do not colocalize and are present in two separate populations of punctate structures, which represent the Golgi and peroxisomes. After 30 min treatment, the peroxisomal markers are still in motile punctate structures (Fig. 5, D–I), whereas the Golgi marker ST-CFP has been redistributed to the ER. The peroxisomal markers in merged images (Fig. 5, D–F) are shown for clarity in a single-channel image (Fig. 5, G–I). The affects of BFA are reversed after 5 h incubation in water (data not shown). The effects of BFA treatment on AtPEX10-eYFP and ST-CFP trafficking are shown in Supplemental Movie 2. [[FIGURE]] Sar1 and RabD2a (formally known as Rab1b) are small G-proteins involved in ER-to-Golgi transport. Transient expression of NtSar1H74L, a GTP-locked mutant (CITATION), or Arabidopsis RabD2a N121I, a nucleotide-free mutant (CITATION), resulted in the accumulation of ST-GFP, a Golgi marker, and a secreted form of GFP, Sec-GFP, in the ER. This in vivo assay forms the basis for assessing the potential effects of blocking ER-to-Golgi trafficking on peroxisome biogenesis as the altered location of the ST fluorescent fusion acts as a marker for the expression of the dominant negative forms of the G proteins, Sar1 and RabD2a. In cells where ST-CFP (green) was coexpressed with either AtPEX2-eYFP, AtPEX10-eYFP, or eYFP-SKL (magenta), the peroxisome markers were detected in distinct cellular structures (Fig. 6, A–C, respectively). Coexpression of the Sar1 H74L mutant had no effect on the localization of the peroxisomal markers but did affect ST-CFP as expected (Fig. 6, D–I). For clarity, images in Figure 6, G to I, show the peroxisomal markers in Figure 6, D to F. Peroxisomes containing the fluorescent fusion proteins in cells that coexpress Sar1 H74L are similar in size and display similar movement characteristics to cells not expressing the Sar1 H74L mutant (compare cell marked with arrow in Fig. 6E with the adjacent cell in the same section). [[FIGURE]] Cells coexpressing the RabD2a N121I mutant with the peroxisomal markers (magenta) and ST-CFP (green) are shown in Figure 6, J to O. The ST-CFP Golgi marker control is located in the ER due to the effects of RabD2a N121I, whereas the peroxisomal marker proteins are not affected. Images in Figure 6, M to O, display the peroxisomal marker fusions in the corresponding merged images with ST-CFP in Figure 6, J to L. Peroxisomes containing the fluorescent peroxisomal marker fusions are similar in size and display similar motility to cells not expressing the RabD2a N121I (compare cell marked with arrow in Fig. 6J with adjacent cell in the same section).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia) plants were grown (CITATION) and then transformed by floral dipping (CITATION). Growth and transient transformation of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) were as previously described (CITATION, and refs. therein). Agrobacteria were transformed by freeze-thawing (CITATION). Agrobacteria containing various constructs were infiltrated into tobacco leaf epidermal cells at the following OD600nm: CFP-SKL and eYFP-SKL, 0.04; AtPEX10 and AtPEX2 fusions to eYFP, 0.1; Sar1 H74L, 0.01 to 0.03; RabD2a N121I, 0.02 to 0.05; ST-CFP, 0.03 and 0.05 to 0.1. RabD2a N121I and Sar1 H74L were infiltrated either at the same time as the ST-CFP and peroxisomal eYFP fusions, or 24 h after initial infiltration with these constructs. Leaf segments (approximately 0.5 cm2) were excised from regions of the leaf expressing ST-CFP and a peroxisomal marker 3 to 4 d postinfiltration. Segments were immersed in BFA 100 μg/mL (Sigma-Aldrich; 10 mg/mL stock solution in dimethyl sulfoxide) for 30 min, mounted in water, and analyzed on the confocal microscope. After analysis samples were immersed in water to wash out BFA. Control experiments with samples immersed in water for the duration of the treatment were carried out in parallel. Stable tobacco plants were generated as follows: Three days after infiltration, tobacco leaves were removed, placed in sterilization solution (1:1 hyperchlorite solution:water, 0.01% [v/v] Tween 20) for 5 min, washed three times in sterile distilled water, cut into small pieces using sterile forceps, and placed on shooting media (2.15 g/L Murashige and Skoog salts, 0.8% agar, 3% [w/v] Suc, 0.1 mg/L indole butyric acid [Sigma Aldrich, 1 mg /mL stock], 0.8 mg/L 6-benzylaminopurine [Sigma Aldrich, 1 mg /mL stock], 0.1 mg/L carbenicillin [Melford], 0.2 mg/L Ticarcillin/Clavulanic acid [Ducheva]) and selection for binary vector (hygromycin, 30 μg/mL). The leaf discs were left for 3 to 4 weeks for shooting to occur, and shoots were removed using sterile technique and placed on rooting media (same as shooting media without 6-benzylaminopurine and selection for binary vector, and 0.5 mg/L indole butyric acid) for approximately 10 d. After this time, plantlets were transferred to larger growth containers for screening. Standard molecular cloning procedures were used (CITATION) for the construction of CFP-SKL. CFP-SKL was amplified using Pfx with primers containing XbaI (forward primer 5′ CGATCTAGAGCAGATCGATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGAGCTG 3′) and SacI (reverse primer 5′ GCTGAGCTCGGCTAAAGTTTTGACTCCTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATGCC 3′) sites at the 5′ and 3′ ends, respectively. The resulting PCR product substituted ST-CFP in the plant binary vector pVKH18-EN6∷ST-CFP (CITATION). Gateway homologous recombination technology (Invitrogen) was used to clone the remaining constructs described herein. AtPEX2 was amplified from expressed sequence tag N96573 using Pfx polymerase. Two AtPEX2 clones were amplified, one with a stop codon (forward primer 5′ GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTGGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCCCGCCAATGACGCCGTCTACGCCTGCAGAC 3′, reverse primer 5′ GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTGGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTCATTTGCCACTTGAAACACCTTCCC 3′) and the other without (forward primer same as above, reverse primer 5′ GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTGGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCTTTGCCACTTGAAACACCTTCCCGTTG 3′), for the subsequent generation of C- and N-terminal fusions to eYFP. These clones were recombined into the entry vector pDONOR 207, and then recombined into the plant binary destination vectors 35S-Cassette B-eYFP-Nos∷pCAMBIA 1300 (CITATION), 35S-eYFP-Cassette A-Nos∷pCAMBIA 1300, and En35S-Cassette B-eYFP-Nos∷pCAMBIA 1300 to generate 35S-AtPEX2-eYFP∷pCAMBIA 1300, 35S-eYFP-AtPEX2∷pCAMBIA 1300, and En35S-AtPEX2-eYFP-Nos∷pCAMBIA 1300, respectively. Enhanced 35S promoter was excised from pVKH18-En6 as a HindIII XbaI fragment and replaced the 35S promoter to generate En35S-Cassette B-eYFP-Nos∷pCAMBIA 1300. The 35S promoter-eYFP-gateway Cassette A-Nos terminator was constructed as follows: The cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (800 bp) and nopaline synthase terminator (250 bp) DNA fragments in this construct originate from pBI121 (CITATION). The GUS reporter gene located downstream of the 35S promoter in pBI121 was replaced by PCR-amplified eYFP (accession no. AF242870) using BamHI and SacI restriction sites. The eYFP fragment was amplified with the following oligonucleotides: forward strand, 5′-ATCGGATCCATATAAAACAATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGA, and reverse strand, 5′-GTACCCGGGCTTGTACAGCTCGTCCAT. The amplified fragment was cloned into pGEM-Teasy (Promega) and then excised using a BamHI restriction site introduced in the forward-strand oligonucleotide and the SacI site present in the vector MCS. The Cassette A DNA fragment (Invitrogen) was then placed downstream of eYFP into a SmaI restriction site present in the reverse-strand oligonucleotide. The entire 5′-cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter-eYFP-Cassette A-nopaline synthase terminator construct was then transferred into the HindIII and EcoRI sites of pCAMBIA 1300 (8,958 bp). The point mutation in AtPEX10, resulting in an E357K substitution (CITATION), was corrected by amplification with Pfx proofreading DNA polymerase (Invitrogen) and the product ligated into pGEMT-easy (Promega). The point mutation was corrected by overlapping PCR using forward (P11 5′ ATGAGGCTTAATGGGGATTCG 3′, P3 5′ GATGAAGCTACTTGGACAG 3′) and reverse (P28 5′ GCATTCTTGCTTCTCGTTG 3′, P4 5′ CCCATTGTG CCTAAAAATCAG 3′) primers in PCR A (P11 P28) and PCR B (P3 P4), respectively, and primers P11 and P4 for the final PCR amplification. Subsequent amplification from this template with forward (5′ GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCACCATG AGGCTTAATGGGGATTCG 3′) and reverse (5′ GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTCTAAAAATCAGAATGATACAA 3′) primers using PfuTurbo hotstart DNA polymerase (Stratagene) was recombined into pDONOR 201 resulting in AtPEX10∷pDONOR 201, which was recombined with 35S-eYFP-Cassette A-Nos∷pCAMBIA 1300 to give 35S-eYFP-AtPEX10-Nos∷pCAMBIA 1300. All constructs were fully sequenced to establish authenticity. Fresh leaf tissue (0.2 g) was excised, placed in a 1.5 mL Eppendorf tube, frozen, and ground in liquid nitrogen using an Eppendorf grinder. The sample was placed on ice, 1 mL of extraction buffer (0.2 m NaOH, 2% β-mercaptoethanol), 10 μL protease inhibitor cocktail for plant cell extracts (Sigma-Aldrich) added, and mixed using the Eppendorf grinder. The homogenate was centrifuged for 10 min at 18,000g, and the soluble proteins were precipitated by adding an equal volume of 80% TCA, 20% acetone, left on ice for a minimum of 30 min, and spun at 18,000g for 30 min. The resulting pellet was washed twice with 100% ice-cold acetone, resuspended in 200 μL SDS-sample buffer (CITATION), and heated for 5 min at 95°C prior to loading on the gel. Samples were separated on 12% acrylamide gels using the miniprotean III system (Bio-Rad) and subsequently blotted onto nitrocellulose (CITATION). A polyclonal antibody was raised in rabbits to a 26-amino acid peptide (MTPSTPADDAWIRSYQRLLPESQSLC) corresponding to the amino terminus of AtPEX2 (Genosphere). The peptide was covalently coupled to Sulfolink coupling gel (Pierce Biotechnology) and used to affinity purify the antibody according to manufacturer's instructions. Sample buffer was 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, and elution buffer was 1 mm EGTA 0.3 m Glycine-HCl, pH 2.7. Western blots were incubated in Ponceau S stain for 5 min. Blots were subsequently washed with phosphate-buffered saline containing 0.1% Tween (v/v; PBST), blocked in PBST 5% (w/v) milk for 1 h, and incubated either in affinity-purified AtPEX2 antibody (1:500 dilution) or a polyclonal raised against GFP (1:2,000 dilution, Molecular Probes) in 2% milk PBST for 16 h. Blots were subsequently washed five times for 5 min in PBST, incubated for 1 h in alkaline phosphatase-conjugated secondary antibody (1:1,000 dilution, DAKO), and washed again. Detection was performed using the 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate/nitroblue tetrazolium color development substrate according to manufacturer's instructions (Promega). AtPEX2 26-amino acid peptide was resuspended in distilled water (1 mg/mL) and 0.4 mg was incubated at 37°C with the affinity-purified AtPEX2 peptide antibody (1:5 dilution) in 2% milk PBST for 30 min. After this time the antibody solution was diluted to a final 1:500 antibody dilution and used as previously described. Arabidopsis cell culture was harvested 4 d after subculture, fixed, permeabilized, and stained according to CITATION. For dual labeling, cells were labeled with affinity-purified anti-PEX2, detected with Texas red-conjugated secondary antibody, blocked with whole rabbit serum for 20 min (as both primary antibodies were raised in rabbits), washed in buffer, and incubated with anti-ICL detected with fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-conjugated secondary. Cells were incubated either in affinity-purified anti-PEX2 (1:5) or anti-ICL (1:1,000) for 18 h, washed, and incubated in FITC-conjugated goat anti-rabbit (Sigma Aldrich, 1:40) or Texas red-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG (H+L; Molecular Probes; 1:100) for 2 h. Confocal imaging was performed using a Zeiss inverted LSM510 laser scanning microscope with an argon laser, a helium neon laser, and 100×, 63×, and 40× oil immersion objective. For imaging coexpression of wild-type GFP and eYFP, excitation lines 458 nm for GFP and 514 nm for eYFP were used alternately with line switching in multitracking mode of the microscope (CITATION). Fluorescence was detected using a 458-nm/514-nm dichroic beam splitter with 515-nm dichroic filter and 475- to 525-nm band pass filter for GFP and 535- to 590-nm band pass filter for eYFP. Dual settings for imaging CFP and eYFP are as detailed above. For imaging FITC and Texas red excitation lines, 488 nm and 543 nm were used with frame switching in multitracking mode of the microscope. Fluorescence was detected using 488-nm/543-nm dichroic beam splitter and long pass 560-nm filter for Texas red and 505- to 530-nm band pass filter for FITC. Controls were carried out to prevent cross talk and bleed through of fluorescence. The pinhole was usually set to give a 1 to 1.5 μm optical slice. Postacquisition image processing was done using the LSM 5 browser software (Zeiss) and Adobe Photoshop elements or creative suite premium. Upon request, all novel materials described in this publication will be made available in a timely manner for noncommercial research purposes, subject to the requisite permission from any third party owners of all or parts of the material. Obtaining permission will be the responsibility of the requester. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers AJ276134 (PEX10), AAG52254 (PEX2), AF210431 (Sar1), D01027, and U89959 (RabD2a).
