!~ABS~! Initiation of eukaryotic DNA replication depends on the function of pre-replication complexes (pre-RC), one of its key component being the six subunits origin recognition complex (ORC). In spite of a significant degree of conservation among ORC proteins from different eukaryotic sources, the regulation of their availability varies considerably in different model systems and cell types. Here, we show that the six ORC genes of Arabidopsis thaliana are regulated at the transcriptional level during cell cycle and development. We found that Arabidopsis ORC genes, except AtORC5, contain binding sites for the E2F family of transcription factors. Expression of AtORC genes containing E2F binding sites peaks at the G1/S-phase. Analysis of AtORC gene expression in plants with reduced E2F activity, obtained by expressing a dominant negative version of DP, the E2F heterodimerization partner, and with increased E2F activity, obtained by inactivation of the retinoblastoma protein, led us to conclude that all AtORC genes, except AtORC5 are E2F targets. Interestingly, Arabidopsis contains two AtORC1 (a and b) genes, highly conserved at the amino acid level but with unrelated promoter sequences. AtORC1b expression is restricted to proliferating cells. However, AtORC1a is preferentially expressed in endoreplicating cells based on our analysis in endoreplicating tissues and in a mutant with altered endocycle pattern. This suggests a differential expression of the two ORC1 genes in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! Completion of the Arabidopsis genome sequence has provided a powerful tool to identify novel genes, although direct information derived from gene prediction frequently suffers from problems inherent to the algorithms used. Thus, we used homology searches with protein regions conserved among the corresponding human and yeast genes as a query to clone cDNA encoding each Arabidopsis ORC (AtORC) subunit gene (CITATION). Comparison of the amino acid sequence derived from these cDNAs with that of the ORC proteins predicted in the Arabidopsis genome sequence databases revealed that all AtORC coding sequences, except for AtORC2 (CITATION), were not predicted correctly. It is striking that the coding sequence of AtORC1a (2427 bp) contains a large single exon, a situation that differs from the exon/intron map predicted in the Arabidopsis genome. It is worth to note that the two AtORC1 showed the highest homology compared with the corresponding ORC proteins of different eukaryotic sources (CITATION), in particular within their C-terminal moiety. Then, AtORC2, AtORC3 and AtORC5 showed a relatively high homology, while AtORC4 and AtORC6 exhibit a high homology with the corresponding human proteins but very low with both budding and fission yeast counterparts. The low homology of AtORC4 with SpORC4 is due to the presence of the AT-hook in the fission yeast protein, which is lacking in the plant protein, as well as in other eukaryotic ORC4 proteins. As expected, the homology is much higher with the ORC proteins of other plant species (CITATION). While this study was in progress, cDNAs encoding AtORC subunits have been reported (CITATION,CITATION). In general, the coincidence is high although some features that were not noticed before are highlighted below. ORC4 was initially considered to be missing in the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION). The similarity of genomic sequences, upstream from the predicted ATG of open reading frame (ORF) At2g01120 with the N-terminal domain of human ORC4, allowed us to isolate a cDNA encoding a 417 amino acid-long AtORC4 gene. The two AtORC1 proteins contain boxes I-VI, highly conserved in the ORC/CDC6 family (CITATION), including the motifs defining the larger ORC/CDC6/RFC superfamily (CITATION). AtORC1 proteins together with AtORC4 and AtORC5 belong to the AAA+ ATPase superfamily and contain the typical Walker A and B motifs of the NTP-binding domain (CITATION). However, the Walker A of AtORC4 is atypical (GKA at position 64). The presence of consensus CDK phosphorylation sites (S/TP × K/R) is also characteristic of several AtORC members (CITATION). In AtORC1 these are located at positions 14, 18, 45 and 110, in AtORC1b at 12, 42, 100 and 114, and in AtORC3 at position 540. All AtORC subunits contain destruction boxes with the signature R××L at the following positions: AtORC1a at 280, 655, 713 and 768, AtORC1b at 239, 383, 660 and 772, AtORC2 at 354, AtORC3 at 204, 282, 297, 483, 534 and 606, AtORC4 at 200 and 209, AtORC5 at 153 and 362, and AtORC6 at 204. Both AtORC1a and AtORC5 also contain KEN boxes typical of degraded proteins at positions 544 and 470, respectively. To gain insight into the possible organization of different AtORC subunits within the complex we analyzed the interactions of all of them with a yeast two-hybrid approach. The ORFs encoding each AtORC subunit were fused to both the GAL4 DNA-binding and activation domains separately, and used in a matrix assay to test yeast growth in all possible combinations. All fusions to the DNA-binding domain were tested for self-transactivation and found to be negative. Except for the interactions of AtORC4 with AtORC2 and AtORC5, other interactions were not very strong (data not shown). It is possible that the AtORC proteins interfere deleteriously with endogenous yeast ORC proteins. Also in several cases, we observed that they did not repeat when the test proteins were exchanged between the two DNA-binding and activation domain plasmids (data not shown), as described previously (CITATION). These problems precluded the generation of a meaningful interaction map of all subunits. Therefore, we used pull-down assays of in vitro translated AtORC proteins with purified GST-tagged AtORC proteins. We found that AtORC2 and AtORC5 interact strongly with all AtORC subunits while AtORC3 and AtORC4 interact with all, except AtORC1b (CITATION). The interaction between AtORC1b and AtORC6 with the rest was significantly weaker (CITATION). AtORC1a and b were not included in the assays because the in vitro translated preparations were not sufficiently clean. Also the GST-ORC1a protein could not be expressed properly. The results obtained led us to generate the interaction map shown in CITATION. We carried out a detailed analysis of the relative amounts of AtORC mRNAs in different plant tissues by real-time RT–PCR. Samples used included the aerial part and root system of 6 day-old seedlings, young and mature leaves, cauline leaves, stems and flower buds. Buds containing flowers at different developmental stages appeared to be the material that, in general, showed the highest amount of all AtORC transcripts (CITATION), most notably AtORC4, AtORC5 and AtORC6. In general, the AtORC1a, 1b, 2 and 3 transcripts were the least abundant in all tissues analyzed, perhaps with the exception of AtORC3 in cauline leaves (CITATION). AtORC4 and 5 transcripts were abundant, relative to the amount of AtORC1a, in the aerial part and the root system of seedlings as well as in young leaves, that contains a significant amount of proliferating cells (CITATION). These observations complement previous expression studies (CITATION) and reveal that flowers at different stages of development show the highest levels of AtORC genes. To study in detail whether AtORC expression depends on different cell cycle stages we determined the mRNA levels of each AtORC gene in Arabidopsis cell suspension cultures. Sucrose starvation is known to arrest cell proliferation which is resumed synchronously upon sucrose addition (CITATION). RT–PCR determination of AtORC mRNA levels in arrested cells indicated that the amount of AtORC1a transcripts was the lowest (CITATION). To establish whether AtORC gene expression was subjected to cell cycle regulation we determined mRNA levels at 2 h intervals after releasing from a sucrose-deprivation cell cycle block. Cell cycle progression during the recovery period was assessed by following the expression pattern of well-known cell cycle genes that were used as markers of the different cell cycle phases (CITATION). This analysis confirmed a proper cell cycle progression as indicated by the expression of CYCD3;1 and CYCD2;1 (CITATION), G1 markers that peak at 7–9 h after sucrose addition, CYCA3;1 (CITATION) and histone H4 (CITATION), S-phase markers with a maximum of ∼9 h after sucrose addition and CYCB1;1 (CITATION), a G2/M marker with a maximum of 13 h after sucrose addition (CITATION). Transcription of all six AtORC genes, except for AtORC5, was rapidly stimulated after cell cycle reactivation by sucrose addition, and the mRNA levels reached a maximum of ∼7–9 h after (CITATION), coinciding with the time of expression of the G1 marker genes and clearly before that of S-phase genes. AtORC5 reached a maximum accumulation at 13 h after sucrose addition (CITATION). The largest increase in mRNA levels corresponded to AtORC1a, AtORC1b and AtORC6 (42-, 24- and 29-fold, respectively), although the rest also showed a significant up-regulation during re-entry into the cell cycle AtORC2, AtORC3, AtORC4 and AtORC5 (13-, 8-, 5- and 6-fold, respectively). This indicates that transcriptional regulation of AtORC genes seems to be temporally coordinated during cell cycle progression, but not at the same stage in different AtORC genes. A comparable situation occurs in animal cells in culture where ORC transcripts are not abundant in serum-starved, quiescent cells (CITATION,CITATION). The identification of the bona fide translation start sites for each AtORC gene allowed us a direct sequence analysis of the individual upstream regions which likely cover the putative promoters. In silico studies revealed the presence of the minimal consensus binding sites for the E2F/DP transcription factors (TTTSSCGS, S being C or G). We also included in the search degenerated residues in the three T, since they have also been shown to mediate E2F/DP binding both in animals and plants (CITATION,CITATION,CITATION). All AtORC genes, except AtORC5, contains at least one consensus E2F binding site relatively close to the ATG, the most common being TTTCCCGC (CITATION). The location of these putative E2F binding sites has been considered a strong indication that members of the E2F family may actually regulate AtORC gene expression (CITATION), as suggested by their cell cycle expression pattern. Also consistent with this is the lack of an E2F binding site in the AtORC5 promoter. To determine whether these E2F sites can mediate E2F binding we used EMSA using oligonucleotide probes containing the actual genomic sequences around the E2F binding sequences present in the AtORC promoters. CITATION shows that recombinant Arabidopsis E2Fc/DPb complexes bound specifically to oligonucleotide probes containing different E2F binding sites. These data indicate that AtORC1a, 1b, 2, 3, 4 and 6 promoter sequences can direct binding of E2F/DP. This together with their cell cycle expression pattern strongly suggests that they may be E2F target genes. To determine whether expression of AtORC genes is regulated by E2F in planta, we used first transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing a truncated version DP [DPΔBD;(CITATION)], the heterodimerization partner of E2Fa, b and c (CITATION,CITATION). This truncated DP, which lacks part of the DNA-binding domain, has been shown to bind efficiently to E2F but to prevent binding of the E2F/DP heterodimer to DNA (CITATION), thus behaving as a dominant negative of the DP-dependent E2F activity. We determined by real-time RT–PCR the mRNA levels of each AtORC gene in control and transgenic plants. The results, summarized in CITATION, indicate that the amount of mRNA of most AtORC genes diminished in plants expressing the truncated DP isoform. The differences were statistically significant except for the AtORC1a, AtORC2 and AtORC5 genes. As an internal control, we also determined the levels of AtCDC6a, a known E2F target gene (CITATION,CITATION), that also showed differences between control and DPΔBD-expressing plants that were statistically significant. To complement the analysis we determined AtORC mRNA levels in plants where E2F activity was increased. This was achieved by targeted inactivation of the RBR protein after expressing the geminivirus RepA protein under the control of a dexamethasone-responsive promoter (B. Desvoyes et al., manuscript submitted). The RepA interacts efficiently with RBR through a L×C×E amino acid motif (CITATION,CITATION,CITATION). The interaction of virus RepA with RBR bypasses the normal activity of CDK/cyclin complexes that phosphorylate RBR and release E2F activity (CITATION). We have shown that, after RepA induction, the endogenous set of AtE2Fa/b/c, normally bound by RBR, is released (B. Desvoyes, E. Ramirez-Parra, Q. Xie, N.-H. Chua and C. Gutierrez, manuscript submitted). Cell extracts of plants induced to express RepAwt contain increased levels of all AtORC mRNAs, except for AtORC5 (CITATION). This indicated that these AtORC genes respond positively to the increased E2F activity achieved by RBR inactivation. Furthermore, this effect was specific for the release of RBR-bound E2F as revealed by the lack of a significant change in AtORC mRNA levels after inducing a RepA protein that contains the E198K point mutation that almost completely abolish the interaction with RBR (CITATION). It should be kept in mind that AtORC messages, except for AtORC5, increase before S-phase upon cell cycle reactivation, and that AtORC genes, except AtORC5, contain E2F binding sites in their promoters. Therefore, all these data together led us to conclude that expression of all AtORC genes, except AtORC5, is regulated by the RBR/E2F pathway. This situation is different from that found in animal cells where only the ORC1 gene has been demonstrated to respond to E2F (CITATION,CITATION). One the most striking features of the AtORC gene set is the presence of two genes encoding ORC1 homologues (AtORC1a, At4g14700; AtORC1b, At4g12620), which are >80% similar in amino acid sequence. The high amino acid identity strongly suggests that they likely have a very similar role in ORC activity. However, while the coding sequences have not diverged too much, the two promoter sequences do not show a significant similarity. An attractive possibility is that this may confer differences in the expression pattern of the two genes. To determine the functional relevance of the two AtORC1 genes we first analyzed the individual expression pattern of individual AtORC1 genes. We set up to study the spatial activity of each promoter in transgenic plants expressing the GUS reporter gene under the control of each of the AtORC1 promoters. We used genomic regions upstream the predicted ATG fused in frame to the GUS gene. Histochemical analysis of the pORC1b:GUS transgenic seedlings (3–4 day-old) showed a strong GUS activity in highly proliferating cells located in the shoot (CITATION) and root apical meristems (CITATION). AtORC1b promoter activity in dark-grown seedlings was restricted to shoot (CITATION) and root (data not shown) apical meristems while the cotyledons and the hypocotyl appeared negative. In older seedlings, GUS activity was largely restricted to the lateral root primordia (CITATION) and meristems (CITATION). In two week-old rosette leaves, GUS staining was negative, indicating that the promoter was no longer active after cell proliferation ceased (CITATION). We also found AtORC1b promoter activity in young flower buds (CITATION), developing anthers (CITATION) and mature pollen (CITATION). Interestingly, this expression pattern in the developing flowers is similar to that of the Arabidopsis AtE2Fc gene (CITATION) and AtE2Ff (CITATION), reinforcing the idea that AtORC1b is an E2F target gene. Later in development, the AtORC1b promoter is active again during embryogenesis (CITATION) and inactivated in mature embryos (CITATION). Altogether these data demonstrate that AtORC1b promoter activity correlates strongly with the presence of highly proliferating cells. Unfortunately, and for unknown reasons, we have been to date unsuccessful in generating transgenic plants expressing the GUS reporter gene under the control of the AtORC1a promoter. This problem was not solved even after several independent transformation trials, including a variety of constructs containing different promoter and coding sequence regions fused to GUS. To overcome this problem, we used in situ hybridization with a probe that detects both AtORC1a and AtORC1b messages. AtORC1 mRNAs were abundant in the SAM as well as in cells of the apical hook of dark-grown seedlings (CITATION), known to develop at least one extra endoreplication cycle (CITATION). This pattern indicated that the AtORC1 genes were expressed in locations where proliferating and endoreplicating cells occur, very similar to what was observed for AtCDC6a gene (CITATION). To corroborate this, we used the Arabidopsis ctr1 mutant. Hypocotyl cells of seedlings carrying a mutation in the CTR1 (constitutive triple response 1) gene, involved in ethylene signaling (CITATION), undergo one extra endoreplication round in a large proportion of cells (CITATION). AtORC1 gene expression was much higher in the apical hook of dark-grown ctr1 mutant seedlings (CITATION). In the absence of direct data from AtORC1a:GUS tansgenic plants it is difficult to draw a clear cut conclusion. However, our data are suggestive that the occurrence of extra endocycles during hypocotyl growth in the dark could be associated with increased expression of AtORC1 genes, as it was shown to be the case with AtCDC6a (CITATION). Finally, we complemented this analysis by determining the levels of AtORC1a and AtORC1b mRNAs by RT–PCR in the aerial part of young seedlings under light of dark conditions. Results are summarized in CITATION where it is clearly shown that whereas the level of AtORC1b messages were independent on the light regime, AtORC1a expression was up regulated in the aerial parts of dark-grown seedlings.
!~MM~! We used the Patmatch () and the Pattern search () tools. Arabidopsis MM2d suspension cultured cells were used (CITATION). Cell cycle arrest by sucrose starvation was carried out as described (CITATION,CITATION). EMSA was carried out as described (CITATION), using purified AtE2Fc and AtDPb (CITATION). Oligonucleotides (only the sequence of the sense oligonucleotides is provided for simplicity) containing consensus E2F sites (underlined) were: ORC1a: 5′-GCAAACATTTCCCGCCAAATTTCT; ORC1b: 5′-GCCACCTTTCCCGCCAACTTTCT; ORC2.1: 5′-AAGAAAAACGCGCGGGAAAATTGAGA; ORC2.2: 5′-AAAGTTGTTAACCGGGAAAGACGAAG; ORC3: 5′-CGCTCTTTTTGGCGGGAAAATTCGTG; ORC4: 5′-TGTCAGTTTTCCCGCCAGTCCGATGG; ORC6.1: 5′-AAAAACATTCGCGGCTAAAATTTCAA; ORC6.2: 5′-CGTAAAAAAATCCCGCCAAACGTTGG. The coding regions of all AtORC subunits were cloned into the pDEST15 Gateway vector (Invitrogen) to express AtORC proteins with a GST-tag in bacteria. The pBluescriptII KS± vector was used for in vitro translation of 35S-labeled AtORC subunits using a rabbit reticulocyte kit (Promega), according to the manufaturer's instructions. For the pull-down assays, 5 µg of GST-ORC subunits bound to glutathione-Sepharose beads were incubated with 5–10 µl of 35S-labeled AtORC subunits in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) for 2 h at 4°C, the beads were washed 5 times with 50 mM Tris–HCl (pH 7.5), 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1% Triton X-100 and then the samples were fractionated by SDS–PAGE. Total RNA was extracted using the Trizol reagent (Invitrogen) and RT–PCRs were carried out with the ThermoScript RT System (Invitrogen). The LightCycler System with the FastStart DNA Master SYBR Green I (Roche) was used for real-time RT–PCR. The concentration of either ubiquitin10 (AtUBQ10) or actin (AtACT2) mRNAs in each sample was determined to normalize for differences of total RNA amount. The data were derived from duplicate experiments, and in the case of the analysis of transgenic plants, at least two independent lines were used. The primer sequences used are available upon request. The promoter region of AtORC1b (from −635 to +15, +1 being the ATG) was fused in frame to the β-galactosidase (GUS) gene in the pBI101 binary vector. To generate transgenic plants A.thaliana (Col-0 ecotype) was transformed with Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58CRifR carrying the pORC1b: GUS construct by the floral dip method (CITATION). Transformed seedlings (T0 generation) were selected on MS agar plates containing 50 µg/ml kanamycin and transferred to soil. T2 homozygous plants were selected for further analysis. Plants expressing a dominant negative version of DP, partially deleted in its DNA-binding domain, have been described (CITATION). Plants expressing the geminivirus RepA, either wild-type or the E198K point mutation that abolish interaction with RBR (CITATION), or transformed with the empty vector are described elsewhere (B. Desvoyes, E. Ramirez-Parra, Q. Xie, N.-H. Chua and C. Gutierrez, manuscript submitted). The sense (control) and antisense RNA probes were prepared with the DIG RNA labeling kit (Boehringer Mannheinn), after in vitro transcription from the T7 and T3 promoters of a full length AtORC1 cDNA cloned into the pBluescript vector, as described by the manufacturer. The samples were treated with 0.1 M carbonate buffer (pH 10.2), at 60°C for 1 h. In situ hybridization was carried out essentially as described (CITATION,CITATION). Histochemical detection of GUS activity was done using 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-glucuronide (CITATION), with slight modifications.
