!~ABS~! Phosphatidate (PA) is a central metabolite of lipid metabolism and a signaling molecule in many eukaryotes, including plants. Mutations in a permease-like protein, TRIGALACTOSYLDIACYLGLYCEROL1 (TGD1), in Arabidopsis thaliana caused the accumulation of triacylglycerols, oligogalactolipids, and PA. Chloroplast lipids were altered in their fatty acid composition consistent with an impairment of lipid trafficking from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the chloroplast and a disruption of thylakoid lipid biosynthesis from ER-derived precursors. The process mediated by TGD1 appears to be essential as mutation of the protein caused a high incidence of embryo abortion. Isolated tgd1 mutant chloroplasts showed a decreased ability to incorporate PA into galactolipids. The TGD1 protein was localized to the inner chloroplast envelope and appears to be a component of a lipid transporter. As even partial disruption of TGD1 function has drastic consequences on central lipid metabolism, the tgd1 mutant provides a tool to explore regulatory mechanisms governing lipid homeostasis and lipid trafficking in plants.
!~RES~! While the tgd1 mutants were originally isolated in the dgd1 mutant background during a suppressor screen (CITATION), it became quickly clear following crosses to the wild type that mutations in the TGD1 gene cause phenotypes independent of dgd1, permitting a more direct analysis of TGD1 function in the wild-type background. Because all three available point mutant alleles showed comparable biochemical and growth phenotypes, when studied in the dgd1 mutant background, we focused primarily on the tgd1-1 allele in this study. All three alleles were leaky, with tgd1-1 being the most severe with regard to the developmental phenotypes described here. The growth of the tgd1-1 mutant line was slightly reduced, and leaves and siliques could be distinguished from the wild type based on their stoutness, as summarized in Figure 2. The reduction in growth was not only visible for green tissues but extended to nongreen tissues, such as roots, as well (Figure 2C). [[FIGURE]] Because no knockout allele was readily available, we used an RNA interference (RNAi) approach to enhance the mutant phenotype of tgd1-1 and thereby demonstrate the leakiness of the tgd1-1 allele. Two representative RNAi lines are shown in Figure 3. The abundance of the tgd1 mRNA was reduced in these lines (Figure 3A), resulting in further diminished growth (Figure 3B). [[FIGURE]] During the course of handling the tgd1 mutant lines, it was noted that seed batches reproducibly contained large numbers of sterile seeds or empty seed hulls. In homozygous tgd1-1 lines, nearly 50% of the seeds were aborted (Figures 4A and 4B), a phenotype that was already visible for immature seeds of opened siliques. The ratio of aborted seeds approached 90% (409 out of 481 total for RNAi line-1 and 519 out of 583 total for RNAi line-2; Figure 3C) for the tgd1-1/TGD1-RNAi lines. This seed phenotype, as all others studied for tgd1-1, was rescued by ectopic expression of the TGD1 wild-type cDNA under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter or by a cosmid that harbored a genomic fragment containing the wild-type gene with its endogenous gene promoter (Figure 4B). Approximately 50% of the seeds of the tgd1-1 mutant were aborted (Figure 4B). When embryos forming in siliques of the tgd1-1 mutant line were directly examined from 2 to 6 d after flowering, many were found arrested at the heart stage (CITATION) just before the greening of the plastid was expected to begin (Figure 4C). [[FIGURE]] Based on the previous biochemical analysis of the tgd1 mutants (CITATION), it was concluded that the mutation in tgd1-1 causes an impairment of the eukaryotic (ER) pathway for thylakoid lipid biosynthesis (cf. Figure 1). To corroborate this hypothesis by genetic means, we crossed the homozygous tgd1-1 mutant with a homozygous act1 mutant. The act1 mutant is deficient in the plastidic glycerol 3-phosphate acyltransferase (Figure 1) blocking the prokaryotic pathway of galactolipid biosynthesis. Its chloroplast galactolipids are derived from the eukaryotic pathway (CITATION). Given the deficiency of the eukaryotic pathway in the tgd1-1 mutant mentioned above, the tgd1-1 act1 double mutant was expected to be unable to synthesize galactolipids and to develop plastids, as galactolipids are essential components of all plastid membranes. Indeed, no viable homozygous tgd1-1 act1 double mutants were recovered from the F2 seeds. Screening 98 F2 plants for the diagnostic loss of 16:3 carbon fatty acids, 17 homozygous act1 mutants were identified. Genotyping these at the TGD1 locus, 10 were found to be heterozygous for tgd1-1 and 7 were homozygous wild-type at the TGD1 locus. When developing siliques of the F1 plants from the cross between homozygous tgd1-1 and act1 mutants were opened (Figure 3C), three classes of seeds or seed-like structures were discernible: green normal-looking seeds, white seeds of the same size as the wild type, and small white seed-like structures (Figure 3C, arrows). The latter appeared at a frequency of nearly 1/16 (39 out of 602, 6.45%) which is the expected frequency of double homozygous mutant seeds in this F2 population. Furthermore, when F3 seeds in siliques of F2 lines homozygous for act1 and heterozygous for tgd1-1 were analyzed, ∼28% (121 out of 432) were very small and white. We propose that these very small seed-like structures represent the double homozygous mutant incapable of developing a viable seed due to their inability to synthesize galactolipids. The white, large seeds are presumably homozygous for tgd1-1 only. Because embryos of Arabidopsis develop chloroplasts with extensive thylakoid membranes at the heart stage (CITATION), we investigated the contribution of the prokaryotic and eukaryotic pathways to thylakoid lipid biosynthesis in developing seeds of the tgd1-1 mutant and wild-type lines, suspecting that the eukaryotic pathway might be more predominant in seeds than in leaves, as seed metabolism in general is largely directed toward TAG biosynthesis involving the eukaryotic pathway. All seeds (phenotypically mutant or wild-type) derived from a developing homozygous mutant silique were combined and extracted for further lipid analysis and compared with seed extracts of developing wild-type siliques of comparable age. As shown in Figure 4D, the polar lipid composition of mutant seeds was biased toward a decrease of chloroplast lipids, such as the two galactolipids and an increase of ER lipids, such as PC, consistent with the arrest of development of mutant embryos at the stage of chloroplast formation. Interestingly, the relative amount of phosphatidylethanolamine, unlike PC, a lipid exclusively found in extraplastidic membranes, was not altered in the mutant. Possibly, PC is more dominant in the ER of embryos than phosphatidylethanolamine because of its precursor role in oil biosynthesis (CITATION). Focusing on the exclusive chloroplast lipid MGDG, we observed that 18-carbon fatty acids were predominant in the wild-type MGDG but reduced in mutant MGDG (Figure 4E). In general, molecular MGDG species containing two 18-carbon fatty acids in their DAG backbone are thought to be derived from the eukaryotic pathway, while molecular species of MGDG with an 18-carbon fatty acid in the first position of DAG and a 16-carbon fatty acid in the second position are derived from the prokaryotic pathway (CITATION). Given the predominance of 18-carbon fatty acids in MGDG of the wild type, it was apparent that the eukaryotic pathway dominates in developing Arabidopsis seeds while it contributes 50% of thylakoid lipids in leaves (CITATION). As all results on the lipid metabolism in the tgd1 mutant point to a general defect in the eukaryotic pathway of thylakoid lipid biosynthesis, the tgd1-1 mutation should have severe consequences for the ability of the embryo to generate sufficient lipids for plastid membrane biogenesis. Therefore, the observed predominance of the eukaryotic pathway in wild-type seeds explains the high incidence of seed abortion in the leaky tgd1-1 mutant and the strongly increased incidence of seed abortion in the tgd1-1/TGD1 RNAi lines. The tgd1 mutants were originally identified by their accumulation of 1,6 β-linked oligogalactolipids, such as trigalactosyldiacylglycerol (TGDG). A comparison of polar lipids in the tgd1-1 mutant and the wild type is shown in Table 1. While TGDG was not detectable in the wild type, it was present at ∼1.4 mol % in the mutant. The relative amount of the major galactolipid MGDG was slightly reduced and that of DGDG was slightly more (by 29%). In the wild type, DGDG is mostly of eukaryotic origin presumably due to the location of the respective DGD1 glycosyltransferase on the outside of the outer envelope or the substrate specificity of this enzyme. Therefore, the short supply of molecular lipid species from the eukaryotic pathway in the tgd1-1 mutant might explain this decrease in DGDG. The relative amounts of phospholipids overall increased in the mutant. The structural identity of purified TGDG had been previously determined by mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (CITATION). Polar Lipid Composition in Leaves of the Wild Type and the tgd1-1 Mutant During the ultrastructural comparison of wild-type and mutant cells, we observed peculiar osmium-dense bodies in the cytoplasm exclusively in the mutant as shown in Figure 5. Typically, tight packing of alkane chains associated with membrane lipids or oil droplets causes an enhancement of osmium staining, and we hypothesized that these bodies might be lipid droplets. When lipid extracts from leaves and roots of the mutant were analyzed for neutral lipids, a lipid cochromatographing with soy seed oil TAGs was detected (Figure 6A). Digestion of this compound isolated from mutant leaves and of soy oil TAGs with pancreatic lipase led to the formation of free fatty acids, diacylglycerol, and monoacylglycerol cochromatographing in both samples, thereby confirming the identity of the compound accumulating in the mutant as TAG (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Soy seed oil was chosen here as a standard because its fatty acid composition, unlike that of seed oil from Arabidopsis, resembles that of Arabidopsis leaf lipids. Indeed, analysis of fatty acid methylesters derived from the TAGs accumulating in leaves of the tgd1-1 mutant confirmed the presence of fatty acids typical for leaves (Figure 7A). Furthermore, the fatty acid composition was similar to that of PC (Figure 7B), a lipid derived from the eukaryotic pathway. It is interesting to note that a small amount of 16:3 fatty acids is present in PC as well as in PA in the tgd1-1 mutant but not in the wild type (Figures 7B and 7C). This fatty acid is normally indicative of molecular species derived from the prokaryotic pathway, and its presence in PC indicates a small flux of prokaryotic lipid species to the extraplastidic membranes in the tgd1-1 mutant but not the wild type. To show that the TAG was not associated with the plastids, chloroplasts were isolated and analyzed as well. No TAGs were detectable in isolated chloroplasts (Figure 6A). Taking these data together, it is proposed that leaf cells of the tgd1-1 mutant accumulate TAGs in droplets in the cytoplasm. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To examine whether central phospholipid metabolism was affected in the tgd1-1 mutant, leaves were labeled with [32P]ortho-phosphate to detect changes in phospholipid intermediate pools in the mutant. Two-dimensional thin-layer chromatograms (TLCs) are shown in Figure 6B. Of all the lipids detected, label in a compound comigrating with an authentic PA standard was increased. Determining the relative mole fraction of fatty acid methylesters of PA over all fatty acids in the sample (wild type, 0.47 ± 0.12 mol %; tgd1-1, 2.15 ± 0.55 mol %; n = 3, ±sd) indicated an approximate fivefold increase of relative PA amounts in the tgd1-1 mutant. The fatty acid composition of this PA was similar to that of PC (Figures 7B and 7C). Moreover, positional analysis of fatty acids in PA revealed an enrichment of 18-carbon fatty acids in the sn-2 position of the glycerol backbone (92.5 ± 5 mol %, n = 3, ±sd) consistent with its origin from the eukaryotic pathway (CITATION). When intact chloroplasts were isolated from the tgd1-1 mutant, no PA was detected (data not shown), suggesting that PA found in total leaf lipid extracts of the mutant is accumulating in extraplastidic membranes. However, we cannot rule out that any PA present in the plastids was metabolized during chloroplast isolation. Because eukaryotic PA accumulated in the tgd1-1 mutant and the eukaryotic pathway of galactoglycerolipid biosynthesis was generally disrupted, we hypothesized that the transport of PA and/or conversion of ER-derived PA to the eukaryotic DAG precursor of the galactolipid biosynthetic machinery (i.e., MGD1) in chloroplast envelopes was impaired. To test this hypothesis, chloroplasts were isolated from mutant and wild-type leaves, and acylcarbon-labeled lipid substrates were tested for their differential incorporation into MGDG by the two chloroplast preparations. The results of these experiments are shown in Figure 8. When DAG, the direct substrate for MGD1, was used, incorporation into MGDG was slightly increased for mutant chloroplasts (Figure 8A). The reaction was strictly dependent on the addition of the second MGD1 substrate, UDP-Gal, but was independent of phospholipase C, as expected, because DAG is not a substrate of phospholipase C. However, when labeled PC was used (Figure 8B), incorporation of label into MGDG by mutant chloroplasts was generally decreased. The reaction was UDP-Gal dependent. Stimulation by phospholipase C was small, if any, given the statistical limitations of the data set. Phospholipase C generates DAG from PC, and stimulation was expected. Interestingly, the difference between the mutant and the wild-type chloroplasts were nearly abolished following phospholipase C treatment. A similar result as for PC was observed for PA (Figures 8C and 8D). Incorporation of PA into MGDG was nearly linear for both chloroplast preparations between the interval of 10 to 30 min, and the rate of PA incorporation was reduced for the mutant chloroplasts on a chlorophyll basis. This reaction was dependent on UDP-Gal and stimulated by additions of cytosol, which also led to an increase in the difference between the mutant and wild-type chloroplasts (Figure 8D). Addition of ER fractions was not effective. Cytosol and ER fractions were added because we wanted to test whether factors not yet identified might be needed for the transfer of PA from liposomes to the plastid envelopes. [[FIGURE]] Because it was possible that the reduced incorporation of PA into MGDG by isolated tgd1-1 chloroplasts is caused by a decreased activity of PAP (Figure 1), we tested the activity of this enzyme in the two chloroplast preparations. As shown in Supplemental Figure 2 online, PAP activity was similar in both preparations and can therefore not account for the observed decrease in the incorporation of PA into MGDG by isolated mutant chloroplasts (Figures 8C and 8D). Together with the documented accumulation of PA in the tgd1-1 mutant (Figure 6B), these results suggest an impairment of the eukaryotic pathway at the level of PA and its conversion into DAG, the direct substrate of MGDG biosynthesis. To correctly interpret the observed rates of lipid incorporation into MGDG described above (Figure 8), it was important to know whether the activity of MGDG synthase, in particular that of MGD1, which is the enzyme responsible for bulk MGDG biosynthesis in the wild type, was altered in the mutant. The activity of MGDG synthase was assayed directly using labeled UDP-Gal. No lipids were added to the mixture requiring the utilization of endogenous DAG generated in the envelope membranes. As shown in Figure 9A, under these conditions, the rate of UDP-Gal incorporation into MGDG was increased approximately fivefold in isolated mutant chloroplasts. To corroborate that this activity was due to MGD1 and not to other described galactosyltransferase activities, chloroplasts were treated with either thermolysin or buffer only, reisolated, and incubated with substrate. Thermolysin can degrade surface-exposed proteins localized to the outer envelope membrane, such as processive galactosyl transferase (CITATION), DGD1 (CITATION), or MGD2 and MGD3 (CITATION), while not penetrating into the intermembrane space and degrading proteins, such as MGD1, which is proposed to be associated with the inner envelope membrane (CITATION; CITATION). While the formation of DGDG (Figure 9A) and TGDG (Figure 9A) was thermolysin sensitive, the formation of MGDG was not (Figure 9A). This result was consistent with either an activation of MGD1 or greater availability of the endogenous lipid precursor of the MGD1 reaction in the tgd1-1 mutant. We determined that the increase of MGDG formation in the mutant was not due to increased MGD1 gene expression as shown in Figure 9B. Considering this increase in MGD1 activity, the result for the decrease of PA incorporation into MGDG by the mutant chloroplasts shown above (Figure 8) becomes even more significant. [[FIGURE]] While a substantial body of evidence suggested an association of Arabidopsis MGD1 with the inner chloroplastic envelope membrane (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), its exact topology had not been experimentally verified. We expected that an understanding of the topology of MGD1 would allow us to make a testable prediction regarding its functional cooperation with TGD1 during lipid metabolism. Toward this end, we performed import experiments using in vitro–translated MGD1 protein and isolated intact chloroplasts. After import, chloroplasts were reisolated and subjected to protease treatment with either thermolysin or trypsin in the absence or presence of detergents. As controls, ARC6 of Arabidopsis (CITATION) and a truncated version of Tic110 (tp110-110N) from pea (Pisum sativum; CITATION) were used in parallel import and protease protection assays. It has previously been determined that ARC6 is a protein of the chloroplastic inner envelope, which is thermolysin resistant but contains a trypsin-sensitive domain that protrudes into the intermembrane space (CITATION). By contrast, the bulk of the truncated inner envelope membrane–localized Tic110-110N faces the stroma, thus making this truncated membrane protein both thermolysin and trypsin resistant (CITATION). The results of the MGD1 import experiments are shown in Figure 9C. The preprotein of MGD1 (Figure 9C, pMGD1) is close in size to the ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase large subunit and was therefore partially covered up by this most abundant protein in leaves (Figure 9C, top, lane 1). The MGD1 preprotein was processed under import conditions to generate mature MGD1 (Figure 9C, mMGD1) and was likewise shown to be resistant to protease degradation by post-treatment with thermolysin (Figure 9C, top, lane 3). However, mature MGD1 was partially cleaved by trypsin (Figure 9C, top, lane 5). Disruption of the chloroplast by detergent treatment made the mature MGD1 accessible to degradation by both thermolysin and trypsin (Figure 9C, top, lanes 7 to 10). Import assays involving the two control proteins, ARC6 (Figure 9C, middle), and truncated Tic110-110N (Figure 9C, bottom) behaved in agreement with previously published results as described by CITATION and CITATION, respectively. Briefly, both control proteins were thermolysin resistant. However, while ARC6 was cleaved by trypsin, truncated Tic110-110N was completely resistant to trypsin degradation (Figure 9C, bottom, see lane 5). Taken together, the data presented here support the conclusion that MGD1 is tightly associated with either the outer or inner chloroplastic envelope in a peripheral manner with the bulk of the MGD1 protein orientated toward the intermembrane space. Determining in a more rigorous fashion whether MGD1 peripherally associates with either the outer or inner envelope was not further investigated here. However, we have demonstrated that imported mature MGD1 does associate with the total membrane fraction (Figure 9C, top, see lanes 1, 3, and 5) even though MGD1 contains no predicted transmembrane domain(s). Furthermore, we have confirmed that mature MGD1 can be removed from the envelope membrane when extracted with either high salt or sodium carbonate (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). In conjunction with results obtained by others showing directly that MGD1 and its ortholog in spinach (Spinacia oleracea) are associated with the inner envelope membrane (CITATION; CITATION), one can conclude that MGD1 is located on the outside of the inner chloroplastic envelope membrane. To determine the subcellular localization of TGD1, we stably expressed a C-terminal fusion of TGD1 with green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter and showed that expression of this fusion protein in Arabidopsis wild type resulted in a punctate fluorescence pattern at the periphery of chloroplasts (Figures 10A to 10C). No fluorescence signal was observed that could be associated with other subcellular membranes. However, one possible explanation for the pattern seen in Figures 10A to 10C might be that it is the result of an artifact due to the potentially high expression levels of the TGD1-GFP fusion protein itself. To address this concern, the abundance of the TGD1-GFP fusion protein was estimated by probing leaf protein derived from the transgenic lines with anti-GFP antibodies. We observed only a weak signal during this analysis (see Supplemental Figure 4 online), suggesting that the fusion protein was not excessively overexpressed in the transgenic lines or in the tissue examined. It should also be noted that the same TGD1-GFP construct led to a reversion of mutant phenotypes when introduced into the tgd1-1 mutant demonstrating its correct function. Thus, we assume within reason that the punctate fluorescence pattern shown in Figure 10 accurately reflects the proper targeting of the TGD1 protein to the plastid envelope membrane. [[FIGURE]] Employing an improved in vitro translation system for TGD1, which in our initial attempts was poorly translated in vitro (CITATION), we examined the in vitro targeting and insertion of TGD1 into the chloroplast envelope membranes. When in vitro–translated pTGD1 protein was incubated with isolated pea chloroplasts under import conditions, we observed that pTGD1 was processed to the mature form, mTGD1 (Figure 10D). After import and treatment with thermolysin, the mTGD1 form was partially cleaved, and both proteins associated with the envelope membrane fraction. This experiment was done repeatedly, and in no instance was complete digestion of mTGD1 with thermolysin observed. It should be noted that TGD1 does not contain a predictable N-terminal chloroplast transit peptide. Thus, TGD1 may be a protein that requires a nonclassical transit peptide for its proper targeting and insertion into the envelope membrane. To further investigate whether pTGD1 is indeed processed during import, in vitro–translated pTGD1 was incubated with a crude chloroplastic stromal preparation that contained the stromal processing peptidase (SPP), which cleaves and removes transit peptides from precursor proteins (CITATION). Treatment of translated pTGD1 with crude SPP generated a truncated protein of similar size and mobility with that of authentic mTGD1 that was produced from a chloroplastic import assay (Figure 10E, compare import assay with SPP assay). We conclude from this comparison that pTGD1 does contain a potential nonclassical transit peptide that targets pTGD1 to the envelope membrane of chloroplasts. Partial thermolysin sensitivity of mTGD1 observed in the in vitro import assay system continued to raise questions with regard to the subcellular localization of TGD1 within the envelope membranes. To complement our in vitro import assays (Figure 10D), an in vivo chloroplast protein import assay was developed (Figure 10F). For this new assay approach, we generated C-terminal GFP fusion constructs of TGD1, of DGD1, which localized to the outside of the outer envelope membrane (CITATION), and of ATS1, the plastidic glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase that is localized to the stroma or on the inside of the inner chloroplast envelope (CITATION; CITATION). The expression of these three fusion proteins was driven by the CaMV 35S promoter. These constructs were transiently expressed in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaves following Agrobacterium tumefaciens infection. Expression was enhanced by coexpressing a viral suppressor protein construct (CITATION). Once the transgenes were fully expressed, chloroplasts were isolated and were then treated with thermolysin, trypsin, or buffer (Figure 10F). The GFP tag of these three fusion proteins was detected by protein gel blot analysis using GFP antibodies. The result of this experiment is shown in Figure 10F. The TGD1-GFP fusion protein was thermolysin resistant but trypsin sensitive, suggesting that the GFP portion of the protein and consequently the C terminus of TGD1 were facing the intermembrane space. The DGD1-GFP protein was sensitive to both proteases, as expected for a protein on the outside of the outer envelope membrane, while the ATS1-GFP fusion was not cleaved by either protease, as expected for a protein localized either on the inside of the inner envelope or in the stroma. Based on these multiple lines of evidence, we conclude that pTGD1 was imported into chloroplasts, processed, and subsequently targeted to the inner chloroplastic envelope membrane.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana tgd1-1 mutant allele, which was originally isolated in the dgd1 background (CITATION), was crossed into the wild-type background (ecotype Columbia-2) and at least three times backcrossed. Unless otherwise indicated, all experiments were conducted with this line. The act1(ats1) mutant has been previously described and corresponds to the JB25 allele (CITATION). Genotyping of the TGD1 locus was done as previously described (CITATION). Surface-sterilized seeds were germinated on 0.8% (w/v) agar-solidified MS medium (CITATION) supplemented with 1% (w/v) sucrose. Typically, 10-d-old seedlings of Arabidopsis wild type and mutants were transferred to soil drenched with half-strength Arabidopsis nutrient solution (CITATION) and grown under a photosynthetic photon flux density of 70 to 80 μmol m−2 s−1 at 22/18°C (day/night) with a 14-h-light/10-h-dark period. For quantitative growth experiments, MS 1% sucrose agar plates with seedlings were placed on a single shelf of a CU-36L5 growth chamber (Percival Scientific). At each time point, aerial parts of 15 wild-type and mutant plants on matching shelf positions were weighed. For root growth assays, 10 seedlings for each genotype were grown on vertically positioned agar plates, and 10 seedlings were analyzed per time point. Standard errors were calculated. The full-length coding region of TGD1 was amplified by PCR using the primers 5′-AATACTAGTGGCGCGCCATGATGCAGACTTGTT-3′ (SpeI and AscI; sense primer) and 5′-CCAGGATCCATTTAAATTCAAACACAGTTCTT-3′ (BamHI and SwaI; antisense primer) and the original plasmid as template (CITATION). The resulting DNA fragment was cloned into the silencing vector pGSA1285 (ABRC, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH; CD3-454) in sense and antisense orientations separated by a glucuronidase intron and was expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. Plant transformation was achieved by the floral dip method (CITATION). Resistant seedlings were selected on MS medium containing 40 μg/mL of kanamycin. Leaves and siliques were imaged using a Leica MZ 12.5 dissecting microscope (Leica Microsystems) equipped with a Spot Insight color camera (Diagnostic Instruments). Siliques from homozygous tgd1-1 plants were dissected with hypodermic needles. Seeds were cleared in chloral hydrate solution (chloral hydrate:water:glycerol, 8:2:1 w/v/v) for 1 h at room temperature and were observed with a Leica DMLB microscope equipped with Nomarski optics (Leica Microsystems). For electron microscopy, leaf tissues from 3-week-old wild-type and tgd1-1 mutant plants grown on agar-solidified medium were fixed for 2 h at room temperature in 2.5% glutaraldehyde and 0.1 M sodium phosphate, pH 7.2, followed by a secondary fixation in 1% (w/v) osmium tetroxide in the same buffer. After this double fixation, samples were dehydrated in a graded series of acetone, embedded in EPON812 resin (Electron Microscopy Sciences), and sectioned. The thin sections (∼70 to 90 nm) were stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate prior to examination in a JEOL 100CX electron microscope (JEOL). For the GFP fusion protein localization study, leaf samples were mounted in water on slides and were directly examined using a Zeiss LSM5 confocal microscope. Excitation light was provided by an argon laser at 488 nm. GFP fluorescence was observed with a band-pass filter of 505 to 530 nm and chlorophyll fluorescence with a 650-nm long-pass filter. Enhanced-quality images were acquired with the LSM5 imaging system software, and postacquisition image processing was performed with the LSM5 image browser and Adobe Photoshop software. This work was performed at the Center for Advanced Microscopy (Michigan State University). Lipids were extracted as previously described (CITATION). Polar lipid extracts were analyzed on activated ammonium sulfate–impregnated silica gel TLC plates (Si250 with preadsorbent layer; Mallinckrodt Baker) using a solvent system of acetone:toluene:water (91:30:7, v/v). Two-dimensional TLC was used to separate PA as previously described (CITATION). Neutral lipids were separated on the same silica plates, but untreated with ammonium sulfate, using a solvent system consisting of petroleum ether:ethyl ether:acetic acid (80:20:1, by volume). Lipids were visualized with iodine vapor and identified by cochromatography with lipid extracts of known composition or commercially purchased standards. For quantitative analysis, individual lipids were isolated from TLC plates and used to prepare fatty acid methyl esters. The methyl esters were quantified by gas–liquid chromatography using myristic acid as internal standard (CITATION). Positional analysis of fatty acids in PA was done as previously described (CITATION). For in vivo labeling experiments, detached leaves from 3-week-old Arabidopsis plants were incubated with 3.7 MBq carrier-free [32P]orthophosphate (Amersham) in 20 mL of MS medium. Lipids were extracted after 3 h of incubation and separated by two-dimensional TLC as described above. Radiolabeled lipids were visualized by autoradiography. ER-enriched membranes were isolated from 3-week-old seedlings according to CITATION. The resulting ER membranes were suspended in incubation buffer (see below). Cytosol fraction was isolated according to CITATION with some modifications. Seedlings were homogenized in 50 mL of 50 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.0, 10 mM KCl, 2.5 mM MgCl2, and 5 mM ascorbate and supplemented with 1 mL of protease inhibitor cocktail for plant extracts (P 9599; Sigma-Aldrich). The homogenate was then filtered through two layers of Miracloth (Calbiochem) and centrifuged at 12,000g for 10 min, and the supernatant was centrifuged further at 100,000g for 60 min. The supernatant was concentrated 10 times with a centricon 10 kD cutoff filter (Millipore). The concentrated cytosol fraction was frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C until further use. Intact chloroplasts were isolated from 3-week-old Arabidopsis plants by discontinuous gradient (5 mL 80% and 10 mL 40%) as previously described (CITATION). Pigments were quantified according to CITATION. Radioactive PC for chloroplast labeling assays was prepared after incubating 16-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings overnight in 20 mM MES-KOH, pH 6.0, with 50 μmol of [1-14C]-acetate (2.22 GBq/mmol; American Radiolabeled Chemicals) according to CITATION. Lipids were extracted and separated by TLC. Radioactive PC was eluted from silica gel using chloroform:methanol:formic acid (10:10:1, v/v) and redissolved in chloroform:methanol (3:1, v/v). The [14C]-labeled PA and DAG substrates were prepared by digesting radiolabeled PC with phospholipase D (Type I, cabbage [Brassica capitata]) and phospholipase C (Type XI, Bacillus cereus), respectively. All enzymes were from Sigma-Aldrich. Specific radioactivity of the resulting [14C]-PC, -PA, and -DAG were determined by gas chromatography and scintillation counting and were ∼42, 16, and 12 MBq/mmol, respectively. The chloroplast labeling experiments were done according to CITATION with some alterations. Total lipids, including 0.45 nmol of radiolabeled [14C]-lipids and 10 nmol of unlabeled lipids dissolved in chloroform:methanol (2:1, v/v), were added to a glass vial, and the solvent was evaporated under a steam of nitrogen. Lipids were solubilized by sonication in 100 μL of incubation buffer (0.33 M sorbitol, 50 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.0, 10 mM KCl, 1 mM ATP, and 2.5 mM MgCl2). In some experiments, as indicated in the figure legends, 0.3 units of phospholipase C or unlabeled UDP-Gal at a final concentration of 2 mM were added. Cytosolic and ER fractions were added equivalent to 50 μg of total protein each. The reaction was started by addition of the chloroplast preparation (50 μg chlorophyll) and was stopped after 30 min if not otherwise indicated by extracting lipids with chloroform:methanol (2:1, v/v). Lipids were separated by TLC as described above. After staining with iodine vapor, lipids were scraped off the plate and counted by liquid scintillation. Intact Arabidopsis chloroplasts were isolated as above. In some experiments, the purified chloroplasts (1 mg/mL chlorophyll) were incubated with 0.5 mg/mL thermolysin (Sigma-Aldrich) in 0.33 M sorbitol, 50 mM HEPES, pH 7.3, and 1.0 mM CaCl2 in the dark for 30 min at 4°C. After treatment, intact chloroplasts were repurified by centrifugation through a gradient as used for the isolation. Intact chloroplasts were resuspended in 0.33 M sorbitol, 50 mM HEPES, pH 7.6, 5 mM EDTA, 1 mM MnCl2, and 1 mM MgCl2. Total galactolipid synthesis in intact chloroplasts (50 μg chlorophyll) was assayed by incubation with 18.5 KBq of UDP-[U-14C]-galactose (10.28 GBq/mmol; American Radiolabeled Chemicals) in 150 μL of medium as described above for resuspension. Lipids were extracted and separated by TLC, and the radiolabel was quantified as described above. Mixed envelope membranes from purified wild-type and tgd1-1 chloroplasts were prepared by the method of CITATION. Activity of PAP was assayed by following PA conversion into DAG by isolated envelope membranes according to CITATION. Radioacitive PA was synthesized within the envelope membranes by acylation of sn-[14C]glycerol 3-phopshate (specific activity, 5.29 GBq/mmol; Amersham). Lipids were extracted from aliquots of the reaction mixture taken at different time intervals, and the neutral lipids were analyzed by TLC as described above. Radioactivity in DAG was quantified by isolating the respective silica area from the plate followed by scintillation counting. Total RNA was isolated using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. For RNA gel blots, RNA was separated by agarose gel electrophoresis and blotted onto Hybond N+ membranes (Amersham) using standard procedures and standard high-stringency conditions. For RT-PCR quantification of TGD1 RNA, total RNA was extracted from 3-week-old plants using the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen) following the manufacturer's instructions. The RNA was treated with DNase I (Promega). First-strand cDNA was synthesized using the Ominiscript reverse transcription kit (Qiagen). PCR thermocycling conditions were 94°C for 3 min followed by 29 cycles of 94°C for 30 s, 55°C for 30 s, and 72°C for 1 min, with a final polymerization step at 72°C for 10 min. Primers used to amplify a 726-bp fragment of the TGD1 gene were 5′-CAAGGTACCATGATGCAGACTTGTTGTAT-3′ (forward) and 5′-TCAGAAACACATGAGTGTCAG-3′ (reverse). A 317-bp fragment within the ubiquitin UBQ10 gene (GenBank At5g05320) was amplified separately as a control. The UBQ10 forward primer was 5′-TCAATTCTCTCTACCGTGATCAAGATGCA-3′, and the reverse primer was 5′-GTGTCAGAACTCTCCACCTCAAGAGTA-3′. Plasmids expressing cDNAs encoding ARC6 (CITATION), tp110-110N (CITATION), and MGD1 (CITATION) have been described previously. These genes were transcribed/translated, and proteins were subsequently labeled with [35S]-Met using the TNT-coupled reticulocyte lysate system according to the manufacturer's recommendations (Promega). The TGD1 cDNA was PCR amplified from the original plasmid (CITATION) and reinserted into the pGEM-T vector to allow its expression from the SP6 promoter (Promega). This TGD1 plasmid was linearized prior to translation with the SP6 RNA Polymerase TNT-coupled reticulocyte lysate system. Pea plants (Pisum sativum var Little Marvel; Olds Seed Co.) were grown under natural light in the greenhouse at 18 to 20°C. Chloroplasts were isolated from 8- to 12-d-old plants as described previously (CITATION). Binding or import reactions were performed according to CITATION. Post-treatments of import reactions with either thermolysin or trypsin were performed as described previously (CITATION). SPP assays were performed according to CITATION. All fractions were analyzed by SDS-PAGE (CITATION) and fluorography (CITATION). For the generation of a GFP fusion construct, the entire coding region of ATS1 (At1g32200) was inserted into the NcoI-SpeI sites of pCAMBIA1302 (www.cambia.org) using primers 5′-AGCCATGGTAATGACTCTCACGTTTTC-3′ and 5′-CGACTAGTATTCCAAGGTTGTGACAAAG-3′. The N-terminal part of DGD1 up to Pro337 was amplified from pBinAR-Hyg-DGD1 (CITATION) using primers 5′-CACGGTACCATGGTAAAGGAAACT-3′ and 5′-CTCGGATCCAGGCTTCACAAAATC-3′ and was directly cloned into pCambia1300MCS-GFP (a derivative of pCAMBIA1302 with a more versatile multiple cloning site in the expression cassette). This N-terminal portion of DGD1 contains the correct targeting information and is inserted into the outer envelope membrane as previously shown. The full-length coding sequence of TGD1, including the transit peptide, was amplified by PCR using the primers 5′-CAGGAGATCTAATGATGCAGACTTGTTG-3′ and 5′-CCGGACTAGTAACACAGTTCTTCAAAGA-3′ and pBINAR-Hyg-TGD1 (CITATION) as template. This fragment was inserted into the binary vector pCAMBIA1302 using the BglI and SpeI restriction sites. Stable transformation of Arabidopsis was achieved using the floral dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected in the presence of Hygromycin B (25 μg mL−1) on MS medium lacking sucrose. For transient expression of GFP constructs in Nicotiana benthamiana, the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1 carrying the respective construct (see above) was injected into the abaxial air space of 3- to 4-week-old plants according to CITATION. A second construct expressing the p19 protein of tomato bushy stunt virus was used to suppress gene silencing and therefore enhance the level of transient expression of the target gene construct (CITATION). Agrobacterium strains carrying GFP constructs or the p19 silencing plasmid were grown to an OD600 of 0.5 and 1.0, respectively, prior to mixing of equal parts and injection. At 5 d after infiltration, leaves were harvested, and intact chloroplasts were isolated by discontinuous gradient as described above. Protease protection assays were done according to CITATION. Briefly, isolated chloroplasts were treated with either trypsin or thermolysin at final concentrations of 500 or 800 μg/mL for 30 min in ice-cold reaction buffer (50 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.9, 0.33 M sorbitol, and 1 mM CaCl2 in a total volume of 250 μL). Intact chloroplasts were reisolated by centrifugation through 40% Percoll (v/v), washed, and solubilized directly in sample buffer prior to analysis by SDS-PAGE. For GFP fusion protein extraction, 0.1 g of frozen leaf tissue was extracted with 0.2 mL buffer containing 4 M urea and 100 mM DTT. Two hundred microliters of loading buffer (CITATION) were added and the samples were boiled for 5 min. After centrifugation for 5 min at 10,000g, the proteins in the supernatant were separated by SDS-PAGE (CITATION). For GFP immunodetection, a rabbit anti-GFP antibody (Molecular Probes) and anti-rabbit alkaline phosphatase-coupled antibody (Jackson Immuno Research Laboratories) were used at 1:1000 and 1:10,000 dilutions, respectively. The blots were developed using the Immun-Star AP detection system (Bio-Rad). Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers (www.arabiodpsis.org) for the Arabidopsis genes mentioned in the text are as follows: ACT1(ATS1), At1g32200; ARC6, At5g42480; DGD1, At3g11670; MGD1, At4g31780; TGD1, At1g19800. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Digestion of Leaf TAG and Soy Oil TAG with Pancreatic Lipase. Supplemental Figure 2. Phosphatidate Phosphatase Activity in Isolated Chloroplasts of the tgd1-1 Mutant and the Wild Type. Supplemental Figure 3. Sodium Chloride and Sodium Carbonate Extraction of Isolated Pea Chloroplast Total Membranes following Import of MGD1. Supplemental Figure 4. GFP Immunoblot of Leaf Extracts of the Wild Type or the Strongest TGD1-GFP Expressing Transgenic Line (WT/TGD1-GFP).
