!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis root epidermis is composed of two types of cells, hair cells and non-hair cells, and their fate is determined in a position-dependent manner. WEREWOLF (WER), a R2R3 MYB protein, has been shown genetically to function as a master regulator to control both of the epidermal cell fates. To directly test the proposed role of WER in this system, we examined its subcellular localization and defined its transcriptional activation properties. We show that a WER-GFP fusion protein is functional and accumulates in the nucleus of the N-position cells in the Arabidopsis root epidermis, as expected for a transcriptional regulator. We also find that a modified WER protein with a strong activation domain (WER-VP16) promotes the formation of both epidermal cell types, supporting the view that WER specifies both cell fates. In addition, we used the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) inducible system to show that CPC transcription is regulated directly by WER. Using EMSA, we found two WER-binding sites (WBSs; WBSI and WBSII) in the CPC promoter. WER-WBSI binding was confirmed in vivo using the yeast one-hybrid assay. Binding between the WER protein and both WBSs (WBSI and WBSII), and the importance of the two WBSs in CPC promoter activity were confirmed in Arabidopsis. These results provide experimental support for the proposed role of WER as an activator of gene transcription during the specification of both epidermal cell fates.
!~RES~! WER does not possess a detectable nuclear localization signal based on its amino acid sequence. To examine the subcellular localization of WER, the GFP reporter gene was fused in-frame with the WER-coding region, and this fusion was expressed under the control of the WER promoter (PWER:WER-GFP) (Fig. 1A). This construct was introduced into the wer-1 mutant in Arabidopsis and was able to complement the wer-1 mutant phenotype, indicating that the WER-GFP fusion protein functions like the native WER protein in Arabidopsis (Fig. 1B). In this stably transformed Arabidopsis line, fluorescence was detected in the nucleus of the root epidermal cells preferentially in the N-position cells and the lateral root cap cells (Fig. 1C). By contrast, the PWER:GFP alone does not generate a localized intracellular GFP signal (Fig. 1C). Together, these results suggest that the WER protein is localized to the nucleus in Arabidopsis cells.   [[FIGURE]] It has been proposed that WER regulates the hair cell fate as well as the non-hair cell fate in the Arabidopsis root epidermis (CITATION). This proposal is largely based on the fact that wer-1 plants harboring P35S:WER produce a random pattern of both cell types, rather than a single cell type (CITATION). However, it is possible that the wer-1 P35S:WER phenotype is caused by a near-threshold level of WER activity driven by the 35S promoter that is insufficient to induce the non-hair cell fate in all epidermal cells. To test this possibility, we made a construct, P35S:WER-VP16, which had a dual CaMV 35S promoter and the WER-coding region fused to the activation domain of a potent viral transcriptional activator, VP16 (Fig. 2A; 81 amino acids) (CITATION). Prior to introducing this construct into plants, we tested the ability of the recombinant WER-VP16 protein to activate transcription in a yeast one-hybrid assay (Fig. 2B). When we fused this chimeric gene downstream of the GAL4 DNA-binding domain sequence (BD-WER-VP16) and transformed yeast strain Y190 with this construct, the reporter gene activity (β-galactosidase activity) in this yeast was 831.2±122.7. This activity is 2.5 times higher than the activity in the yeast transformed with a construct in which the native WER-coding region was fused downstream of the GAL4 DNA-binding domain sequence (BD-WER) (348.8±81.7), which demonstrates the effectiveness of the VP16 activation domain. To examine the effect of the WER-VP16 protein on epidermal cell specification, we transformed wer-1 PGL2:GUS plants with the P35S:WER-VP16 construct. The PGL2:GUS marker was used because PGL2:GUS expression reflects the pattern of cell fates in the Arabidopsis root epidermis. We found PGL2:GUS-expressing cells and the PGL2:GUS non-expressing cells in each cell position in these P35S:WER-VP16 wer-1 plants (Fig. 2C), similar to the P35S:WER wer-1 plants (CITATION). Thus, even though the transcriptional activation activity of the WER-VP16 protein was much higher than that of the WER native protein, both cell types were specified in the P35S:WER-VP16 wer-1 line (Fig. 2C). This result supports the proposal that WER does not only specify the non-hair cell fate, but also specifies the hair cell fate, perhaps through its regulation of the CPC gene (CITATION).   [[FIGURE]] It has been suggested that WER promotes the hair cell fate through a lateral inhibition mechanism mediated by CPC, in part because a functional WER gene is required for CPC promoter activity in the N cell position (Fig. 3B) (CITATION). However, it has not been determined yet whether WER directly regulates CPC transcription. To address this, we used the glucocorticoid receptor (GR)-mediated inducible system (CITATION; CITATION). The GR inducible system has been used successfully to define direct target genes of several putative Arabidopsis transcription factors (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We generated a P35S:WER-GR construct in which the DNA sequence for the hormone-binding domain of the glucocorticoid receptor (CITATION) was fused to the WER-coding region and its expression was driven by the CaMV 35S promoter (Fig. 3A). This construct was stably introduced into wer-1 mutant plants. In these P35S:WER-GR wer-1 plants, WER activity is expected to depend on glucocorticoid [e.g. dexamethasone (DEX)] because the translocation of the WER-GR recombinant protein into the nucleus should require glucocorticoid. Furthermore, the addition of cycloheximide, an inhibitor of translation, is expected to prevent indirect transcriptional induction of genes following DEX treatment. We tested these expectations by examining the expression of reporter gene PGL2:GUS, which was introduced by crossing into the P35S:WER-GR wer-1 line as a means to monitor epidermal cell specification in response to various treatments. In the absence of DEX, GUS activity was almost undetectable in the wer-1 mutant harboring P35S:WER-GR (Fig. 3C), just as in the wer-1 mutant itself (Fig. 3C) (CITATION). However, when we applied 1 μM DEX to 4-day-old transgenic seedlings for 3 hours, PGL2:GUS was expressed in epidermal cells in a pattern indistinguishable from the wer-1 mutant harboring P35S:WER (Fig. 3C). Furthermore, when we applied 10 μM cycloheximide (CHX) with 1 μM DEX, we could not detect any GUS activity (Fig. 3C). In addition to the PGL2:GUS expression, the epidermal cell fate was also affected by the application of DEX. While the 4-day-old P35S:WER-GR wer-1 seedlings grown without DEX showed the typical wer-1 mutant phenotype, the seedlings grown on agarose media containing 1 μM DEX showed a random distribution of epidermal cell types (Table 1), similar to the phenotype of the P35S:WER wer-1 seedlings previously reported (CITATION), implying that the WER-GR can act like the native WER protein and postembryonic functioning of WER is sufficient to change the cell fate. These results show that 1 μM dexamethasone is sufficient for the WER-GR fusion to induce PGL2:GUS expression and that 10 μM CHX is effective to suppress translation of the transcribed GUS mRNA.    Specification of cell types in the root epidermis treated with DEX  Using these established conditions, we examined CPC RNA accumulation using Northern blot analysis. Treatment of P35S:WER-GR wer-1 seedlings with DEX for 3 hours resulted in a large increase in the accumulation of CPC transcript, when compared with seedlings not exposed to DEX (Fig. 3D). To test whether this induction required de novo protein synthesis, we treated the P35S:WER-GR wer-1 seedlings with DEX plus CHX. In this case, the steady state level of CPC transcript was not reduced, rather it increased slightly (Fig. 3D). This means that translocation of the WER-GR from the cytosol to the nucleus was sufficient to induce transcription of CPC gene in the absence of de novo protein synthesis, strongly suggesting that WER is a direct regulator of CPC transcription.   [[FIGURE]] To identify the region that WER binds to the CPC promoter, we made several small DNA fragments from the CPC promoter region and used them as probes in electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA). The CPC promoter region includes ∼0.7 kb of DNA upstream of the translation start codon which is known to be sufficient to complement the cpc mutant phenotype when fused to the CPC-coding region (data not shown). For the EMSA experiments, we used a truncated WER protein lacking its C-terminal 24 amino acids as we were not able to produce a detectable amount of the full-length WER protein in E. coli. We have previously shown that the C-terminal 24 amino acids are responsible for the transcriptional activation activity of WER (CITATION), and we note that the MYB domain is sufficient for DNA-binding specificity in animal MYB protein (CITATION) and plant MYB proteins, including P (Willams and Grotewold, 1997) and C1 (CITATION). In our EMSA experiments, we found that WER could bind to two CPC DNA fragments, and we narrowed down these regions to 20 nucleotide fragments (Fig. 4A), which were located at –425 to –406 and –468 to –459 upstream of the translation start codon, respectively. We synthesized several mutant versions of these 20 nucleotide fragments and used them in the EMSA (Fig. 4B). Some of the point-mutated DNA fragments were not recognized by WER, while others showed the same binding affinity for the WER as the wild-type fragments (Fig. 4C). Using this information, we were able to deduce a core sequence for the WER-binding site I (WBSI) and WER-binding site II (WBSII) as AgtaGTTa and CAACtg, respectively (Fig. 4C). If the WER-DNA binding was significantly affected when the base was mutated, the bases are shown as capital letters. Because we changed a base to only one different base, rather than all three possible different bases, we could not tell whether the bases shown as lower case letters were also important.   [[FIGURE]] To test the binding specificity of WBSI and WBSII, we performed a competitive gel shift assay with a wild-type version of WBSI or WBSII as a probe and two mutated versions of each as a competitor (Fig. 4D). Binding of the WER protein with WBSI and WBSII was determined to be nucleotide sequence specific, because the mutated versions of WBSI and II did not significantly inhibit the WER-WBSs binding whereas the wild-type versions of WBSs did inhibit the WER-WBSs binding (Fig. 4D). Next, we tested whether these two binding sites had different affinities for the WER protein. When we used radiolabeled WBSI as a probe and the cold WBSII as a competitor, we were able to detect a slight reduction in WBSI-WER binding with increasing amounts of the cold competitor (Fig. 4E). By contrast, when we used WBSII as a probe and WBSI as a cold competitor, the WBSII-WER binding was decreased sharply with increasing amounts of the cold competitor (WBSI) (Fig. 4E). These reductions were not caused by competition with mutated sequences (Fig. 4E, lanes 6 and 7). This competitive gel shift assay suggests that the affinity of WBSI for the WER protein is much stronger than that of WBSII in vitro. To validate these WER-binding sites in vivo, a yeast one-hybrid assay was employed with these two binding sites and the WER protein. For the reporter constructs, we made three tandem repeats of WBSI and WBSII, respectively, inserted them upstream of the lacZ reporter gene promoter, and introduced these constructs into yeast (Fig. 5A). We also made yeast reporter strains that have three tandem copies of two mutated versions of WBSI in the lacZ promoter (Fig. 5A). For the effector construct, a DNA fragment including the WER-coding region was fused to the GAL4 activation domain sequence (AD-WER) and expressed in these reporter strains. We found that the AD-WER was able to increase the β-galactosidase activity by threefold in the yeast harboring WBSI on its reporter gene promoter (Fig. 5B). By contrast, there was no increase in the β-galactosidase activity when AD-WER was expressed in the yeast harboring the two mutated versions of WBSI (WBSI-M1 and WBSI-M2). These data clearly show that WBSI, which we identified in vitro using EMSA (Fig. 4), functions as a WER-binding site in vivo. We were not able to detect a significant increase in reporter expression when the AD-WER was expressed in yeast harboring WBSII on its reporter gene promoter, perhaps because the β-galactosidase activity in this yeast without the WER protein was already very high (data not shown). It is possible that an endogenous yeast transcriptional activator is able to bind to this WBSII in yeast cells.   [[FIGURE]] We also examined the importance of the WER-binding sites in Arabidopsis. First, we co-transformed Arabidopsis protoplasts transiently with reporter and effector constructs. For the reporter constructs, the luciferase gene was fused to the wild-type and several mutant versions of the CPC promoter (Fig. 6A). WER was expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter (P35S:WER) as an effector (Fig. 6A). Protoplasts were prepared from leaf mesophyll cells were transfected with various combinations of reporter and P35S:WER effector constructs, as well as a UBQ10-GUS construct as an internal control (Fig. 6B). When protoplasts were transfected with the wild-type reporter gene and the P35S:WER, there was a fivefold increase in the relative luciferase activity. However, when protoplasts were transfected with the mutated reporter constructs (which have mutations at WBSI, WBSII, or both) and P35S:WER, there was only a small increase in the relative luciferase activity (Fig. 6B). We also co-transformed protoplasts with a WER-VP16 effector construct (P35S:WER-VP16) and the wild-type reporter construct (PCPCWT:LUC), and this combination yielded approximately threefold higher luciferase activity than the P35S:WER + PCPCWT:LUC combination (data not shown), which further shows that the induction is WER dependent and that the VP16 domain is able to enhance the transcription activation ability of the WER protein in Arabidopsis. Next, we made stable transgenic lines with the wild-type and three mutated versions of the CPC promoter fused to the GUS reporter gene (Fig. 6C). Although the wild-type version (PCPCWT:GUS) showed high level of GUS activity in the root epidermis (preferentially in the N-position cells), the mutant versions (PCPCM1:GUS, PCPCM2:GUS or PCPCM3:GUS, which have mutations at WBSI, WBSII or at both, respectively) showed very little GUS activity (Fig. 6D). Specifically, after 4 hours of incubation, no detectable GUS staining could be detected in these mutant versions, whereas the wild-type version showed strong GUS staining. After 24 hours of incubation, some of the seedlings harboring the mutant reporter genes showed very low GUS staining. These results show that the WER-binding sites are important for WER-dependent CPC promoter activity in the Arabidopsis root epidermis.
!~MM~! The wer-1 and cpc mutant alleles were described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The wer-1 mutant line harboring P35S:WER, and the plants harboring PGL2:GUS (β-glucuronidase) or PCPC:GUS have also been previously described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The PGL2:GUS and PCPC:GUS reporter constructs were introduced into each line by genetic crosses. Seeds were germinated and grown vertically on agarose-solidified medium containing mineral nutrients at 22°C under continuous light (CITATION). GUS activity was histochemically defined by staining 4-day-old seedlings as described previously (CITATION). GFP expression in seedlings was examined using a BioRad Radiance 2100 scanning system with excitation at 488 nm and detection at 500-530 nm. Total RNA was extracted from the root tips of seedlings using the TRIZOL reagent according to the manufacturer's protocol. Northern blot analysis with a CPC gene fragment as a probe was described previously (CITATION). The resulting signal was visualized with a Bioimage analyzer, BAS-2500 (Fuji film). Labeling of DNA fragments for the electrophoretic mobility shift assay was carried out using T4 polynucleotide kinase (Promega) and [γ-32P]ATP (>3000 Ci/mmol, 10 mCi/ml) as described previously (CITATION) and this end-labeled probe was purified on a gel. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays were carried out as described (CITATION), except that the binding reaction included 20 mM NaCl, 10 mM Tris Cl (pH 8.0), 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, 5% glycerol, 30 μg/ml poly(dI-dC), 20,000 to 40,000 cpm of probe and the WER protein. This reaction was incubated at room temperature for 30 minutes and resolved on 6% polyacrylamide gel in 0.5×TBE buffer. The gel was dried and the signal was visualized using BAS-2500 (Fuji film). E. coli BL21 (DE3) transformed with pET-WER was treated with 1 mMβ -D-thiogalactopyranoside. These bacterial cells were harvested after 3-hour incubation at 37°C, disrupted using a sonicator and were centrifuged at 14,000 g for 20 minutes to remove debris. From this extract, the expressed WER protein was purified using His·Bind Quick 900 Cartridges according to the manufacturer's manual (Novagen), and was dialyzed against storage buffer (25 mM Tris-Cl, pH 7.5, 25 mM NaCl, 10 mM EDTA, 0.1% NP-40, 50% glycerol). To make the chimeric genes, a genomic DNA fragment of the WER-coding region without the stop codon was PCR amplified, and fused to the N terminus of the GFP (no ER version) gene in frame (WER-GFP), to the N-terminus of the transactivating domain of the herpes viral VP16 (CITATION) in frame (WER-VP16) or to the N-terminus of the hormone binding domain of the glucocorticoid receptor (Picad et al., 1988) in frame (WER-GR). To examine the subcellular localization of the WER protein, the PWER:WER-GFP construct was generated by fusing a 2.4 kb 5′ flanking region DNA fragment and a 1.1 kb 3′ flanking region DNA fragment from the WER gene to the WER-GFP chimeric gene. As a control, the PWER:GFP construct was made with the same GFP (no ER version). For P35S:WER-VP16 (or P35S:WER-GR), the chimeric WER-VP16 DNA (or WER-GR) was inserted between 35S dual promoter and terminator in pRTL2-GUS (CITATION). For BD-WER-VP16, the WER-VP16 DNA fragment was fused to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain in the vector pGBT9. In this construct, we used the coding region of the WER cDNA instead of genomic DNA. Constructions of the BD-WER and the AD-WER have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION). To express and purify WER protein from bacteria, we made pET-WER. The coding region of the WER cDNA excluding the 3′ 72 bp long fragment was PCR amplified. This truncated DNA fragment was inserted downstream of the T7 tag sequence in the vector of pET28(a) using EcoRI and SacI. All the DNA fragments that were PCR amplified using Phusion DNA polymerase (Finnzyme) were sequenced and confirmed to be error-free. We used pCB302 vector as a binary vector for plant transformation (CITATION). Plant transformation was achieved by electroporating constructs into the Agrobacterium strain GV3101 followed by introduction into Arabidopsis using the floral dip method as previously described (CITATION). T1 seeds were harvested and transgenic plants were selected by spraying commercially available BASTA three times a week for 2 weeks. To compare the transcriptional activation activities of the native WER protein and the WER-VP16 chimeric protein, the yeast one-hybrid assay was employed as described by Sadowski et al. (CITATION). BD-WER construct was transformed into yeast strain Y190 and lacZ reporter gene expression was assessed by measuringβ -galactosidase activity using chlorophenol red-b-D-galactopyranoside (CPRG; BMS) as a substrate. To test WBSI and WBSII in vivo, we used the Matchmaker yeast one-hybrid system (Clontech) (Kumar et al., 1966) according to the manufacturer's manual. We synthesized three tandem copies of WBSI, WBSII or point mutated WBSIs. These were inserted upstream of the HIS3 gene in the vector pHISi and upstream of lacZ gene in pLacZi, and these were integrated into yeast strain YM4271 genome. AD-WER described above was introduced into this reporter strains and lacZ reporter gene expression was assessed. Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts were isolated and transfected as described previously (CITATION). Protoplasts (2×104) were transfected with 40 μg plasmid DNA with different combinations of reporter (PCPC:LUC), effector (WER) and internal control (UBQ10-GUS). Protoplasts were incubated in WI [0.5 M mannitol, 4 mM MES (pH 5.7), 20 mM KCl]for 9 hours under light conditions at room temperature. The luciferase reporter activity was determined by the Luciferase Assay System (Promega). The GUS assay was performed as described previously (CITATION).
