!~ABS~! In plant cells, certain membrane proteins move by unknown mechanisms directly from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to prevacuolar or vacuole-like organelles where membrane is internalized to form a dense, lattice-like structure. Here, we identify a sequence motif, PIEPPPHH, in the cytoplasmic tail of a membrane protein that directs the protein from the ER to vacuoles where it is internalized. A type II membrane protein in Arabidopsis thaliana, (At)SRC2 (for Soybean Gene Regulated by Cold-2), binds specifically to PIEPPPHH and moves from the ER to the same vacuoles where it is internalized. Not all proteins that move in this pathway are internalized because another Arabidopsis type II membrane protein, (At)VAP (for Vesicle-Associated Protein), localizes to the same organelles but remains exposed on the limiting membrane. The identification of (At)SRC2 and its preference for interaction with a targeting motif specific for the ER-to-vacuole pathway may provide tools for future dissection of mechanisms involved in this unique trafficking system.
!~RES~! When the C-terminal cytoplasmic tail sequences from different tonoplast intrinsic protein isoforms were compared, α-TIP proteins were observed to contain an additional, conserved sequence adjacent to the last transmembrane domain (Figure 1, underlined). We therefore tested the role of this α-TIP–specific sequence in targeting Re-F-B-α into the ER-to-PSV pathway. We made a series of constructs containing Re-F-B fused, at its C terminus, to one of the following sequences derived from Phaseolus vulgaris α-TIP: PIEPPPHH, HQPLAPEDY, and three mutated variants of PIEPPPHH (AAAPPPHH, PIEPPPAA, and PIEAAAHH). Re-F-B-B and Re-F-B-α, containing full BP-80 and α-TIP cytoplasmic tail sequences, respectively, were used as controls. These seven constructs were separately expressed in tobacco protoplasts. Cells were labeled with [35S]Met + Cys and separated into soluble and membrane fractions, and the products derived from the reporter proteins were immunoprecipitated with antialeurain antibodies (Figure 2). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As shown previously (CITATION), full-length Re-F-B-B was predominantly selected in the membrane fraction as indicated by the doublet of ∼47 and 50 kD (Figure 2, lane 1M; position indicated by arrow to right). The soluble fraction contains a small amount of full-length doublet because of contamination with membrane that does not pellet at 13,000g (CITATION). The soluble fraction also shows two additional proteins at ∼35 and 32 kD (Figure 2, lane 1S; indicated by dot) that correspond to aleurain resulting from proteolytic processing of the reporter in the lytic prevacuolar compartment/vacuole (CITATION). The appearance of these bands is specific biochemical evidence that the reporter protein reached a lytic compartment. When the BP-80 cytoplasmic tail sequence was replaced by the full-length α-TIP sequence, PIEPPPHHHQPLAPEDY, only full-length Re-F-B-α was selected (lanes 2S and 2M), and no mature aleurain was present in the soluble fraction. Thus, Re-F-B-α did not reach a lytic compartment. Instead, as shown previously, it exits the ER and moves to 0.5- to 1-μm cytoplasmic vacuoles that are separate from organelles on the lytic vacuole pathway (CITATION). When the α-TIP–specific sequence, PIEPPPHH, was fused at the C terminus of Re-F-B (lanes 3S and 3M), it resulted in a profile similar to that of Re-F-B-α; no processing of the proaleurain moiety occurred. This processing profile reappeared in the soluble fraction, however, when HQPLAPEDY (lane 4S) or any of the mutated forms of PIEPPPHH (AAAPPPHH [lane 5S], PIEPPPAA [lane 6S], or PIEAAAHH [lane 7S]) was used. These results show that only PIEPPPHH was able to functionally replace the full-length α-TIP cytoplasmic tail and prevent the reporter protein from reaching the lytic vacuole. We therefore hypothesized that PIEPPPHH contains a positive signal that is recognized by cytoplasmic proteins whose interaction diverts the reporter away from an ER-to-Golgi to a lytic vacuole pathway. To test the possibility that the role of PIEPPPHH was an artifact generated using a chimeric reporter protein, we prepared constructs consisting of full-length α-TIP, or α-TIP with PIEPPPHH deleted from its C-terminal cytoplasmic tail, as fusions with enhanced green fluorescent protein (GFP) at their cytoplasmic N termini. These two fusion proteins, termed GFPαTIP and GFPαTIPΔ, respectively, were expressed in protoplasts; the cell vacuolar fraction was separated from the pellet containing the rest of the cell membranes, including ER and Golgi, and the distribution of α-TIP was detected on an immunoblot (Figure 3). For GFPαTIP, only a trace of full-length fusion protein was present in the pellet fraction (arrow); the remainder of the protein had been cleaved to yield an ∼26-kD band that was distributed similarly between pellet and vacuolar fractions. It previously has been shown that α-TIP may be proteolytically cleaved within the first lumenal loop to yield a product of similar size (CITATION); the intracellular site(s) at which this cleavage occurs is not known. By contrast, the amount of full-length GFPαTIPΔ protein in the pellet fraction was similar to the amount of the ∼26-kD product, and an appreciable amount of precursor was also detected in the vacuolar fraction (Figure 3, lanes 5 and 6, arrows). In addition, a second ∼23-kD proteolytic product (asterisk) was present in the vacuolar fraction in amounts similar to that for the ∼26-kD band. The relative abundance of this ∼23-kD band indicates that a substantial portion of GFPαTIPΔ traffics to a vacuolar destination that has proteolytic activity different from that in the destination of full-length GFPαTIP. [[FIGURE]] The intracellular distributions of the two fusion proteins were studied by microscopy. We found that protoplasts expressing either of the proteins were unusually fragile such that they were easily broken during transport in Petri dishes to the confocal microscopy facility. In addition, when visualized in the laboratory using wide-field fluorescence microscopy (CITATION), GFP-expressing cells were abundant 16 h after electroporation, but by 20 h the number of cells had decreased substantially. Their fragility appeared to correlate with unusually large size as compared with protoplasts transformed with other non-TIP proteins (data not shown), and we interpret their phenotypes to indicate an adverse effect caused by aquaporin activity of the expressed α-TIP proteins. Both proteins were present in patterns consistent with that of ER. For GFPαTIP expressed alone, 37/38 cells imaged additionally showed GFP fluorescence in vacuole-like structures separate from ER. A common pattern is shown in Figure 4A, where the protein was associated with convoluted structures that frequently appeared filled with fluorescent protein (arrow) as well as vacuoles above the nucleus that have open lumens but with walls of varying thickness. For the structure indicated by the arrow, multiple optical sections taken at 0.5-μm steps failed to define a lumen (data not shown), indicating that GFP had been internalized into a vacuole-like organelle. Another common pattern in Figure 4B shows the protein in a broad perinuclear network that appears bubbly, indicating the presence of many small vacuoles. For GFPαTIPΔ expressed alone, 33/43 cells imaged showed the protein in vacuole-like structures as well as in a typical ER-like pattern. These vacuole-like structures ranged from discrete, well-defined vacuoles (Figure 4C, arrow) to a broad network in the perinuclear area (Figure 4D) to numerous bright punctate structures distributed throughout the cell (Figure 4E). [[FIGURE]] To define further the distribution of the two proteins within vacuolar organelles, we compared their localization to that for a reporter protein comprised of proaleurain fused to the transmembrane domain and cytoplasmic tail from an Arabidopsis isoform of BP80 [termed VSRAt1 (CITATION) or (At)BP80b (CITATION)], where monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP; CITATION) was inserted into the cytoplasmic tail. This protein, termed (At)BP80b-mRFP, trafficked normally to a lytic compartment destination as judged from the fact that its proaleurain moiety was proteolytically processed to yield mature aleurain indistinguishable in size from that derived from Re-F-B-B (data not shown). Sixteen cells coexpressing GFPαTIP plus (At)BP80b-mRFP and 15 cells coexpressing GFPαTIPΔ plus (At)BP80b-mRFP were studied. Coexpression of the second protein did not alter the localization pattern for the GFP fusion proteins. For all GFPαTIP cells, (At)BP80b-mRFP was present predominantly in ER and in bright punctate organelles (e.g., Figure 4B) that were mobile; their appearance is consistent with that for both Golgi and prevacuolar compartments (CITATION). No association of GFPαTIP and (At)BP80b-mRFP was observed. For nine GFPαTIPΔ cells, (At)BP80b-mRFP gave a similar pattern (e.g., Figure 4D), while in six cells, the two proteins were colocalized on numerous round and elongated structures ranging in size up to 1 μm diameter (e.g., Figure 4E, where colocalization is indicated by yellow color). Additionally, for both sets of experiments, the presence of a red background in ER allowed better visualization of the central vacuole tonoplast. In none of the GFPαTIP cells was GFP associated with that tonoplast, while in four of the GFPαTIPΔ cells, clear labeling of the tonoplast was present (Figures 4D and 4E, arrows). These results together demonstrate that GFPαTIPΔ traffics to a vacuolar destination differently from GFPαTIP: (1) it is proteolytically processed to a differently sized product, (2) it is frequently present together with (At)BP80b-mRFP in organelles similar in appearance to prevacuolar compartments, and (3) it frequently is visualized on central vacuole tonoplast. These results are fully consistent with those presented for the Re-F-B-α reporter protein and indicate that PIEPPPHH is important for proper trafficking of full-length α-TIP. To identify proteins that interact specifically with PIEPPPHH, we performed a yeast two-hybrid screen (CITATION) where three tandemly repeated units of the sequence were used as bait to screen an Arabidopsis cDNA library. Positive clones were selected based on their ability to grow on medium lacking His and adenine as well as their expression of α- or β-galactosidase. Among 150 positive clones initially identified, 28, representing seven different cDNAs, interacted with the PIEPPPHH × 3 bait protein but not with a control bait protein carrying PIEAAAHH × 3 or a bait protein carrying a human lamin C sequence (data not shown); these were studied further. Three are proteins with unknown functions: At3g13060 (seven isolates), At1g26920 (three isolates), and At1g68310 (one isolate). One, At1g72150, has a Sec14/CRAL-TRIO domain associated with phosphatidylinositol binding (CITATION). One, X67816, encodes a cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase. Two are the focus of this article: At1g09070 (14 isolates) represents an Arabidopsis equivalent of soybean (Glycine max) SRC2 (CITATION), and At3g60600 (one isolate) is a VAP33 homolog (CITATION; CITATION) that serves as a parallel control for the (At)SRC2 studies presented here. These two Arabidopsis proteins are designated (At)SRC2 and (At)VAP, respectively. Both (At)SRC2 and (At)VAP were predicted to be type II integral membrane proteins, each comprised of a long cytoplasmic N-terminal region, a transmembrane domain, and a short lumenal domain. The N terminus of (At)SRC2 is comprised of a C2 domain, a calcium-regulated phospholipid binding domain (CITATION), and the protein's central cytoplasmic domain contains seven repeats rich in Pro, Gly, Tyr, and Gln. The cytoplasmic domain of (At)VAP has a predicted coiled coil region adjacent to the transmembrane domain that, in an animal system, was shown to be involved in interactions with a v-SNARE (CITATION) and a well conserved N-terminal domain homologous to the major sperm protein from nematodes, a domain believed to participate in the formation of a protein–protein network (CITATION). To characterize (At)SRC2 and (At)VAP further, we raised polyclonal antibodies against recombinant proteins representing portions of their cytoplasmic domains and also to synthetic peptides whose sequences matched other regions of the cytoplasmic domains. The specificity of the antibodies is documented in subsequent figures. The yeast two-hybrid results indicated that both (At)SRC2 and (At)VAP interacted specifically with the sequence PIEPPPHH. The specificity of this interaction was further tested using recombinant proteins expressed in tobacco protoplasts. Truncated forms of the two proteins representing their cytoplasmic domains carrying six C-terminal His residues were expressed in tobacco protoplasts, purified from cell extracts by chromatography on a Ni2+-agarose column, and incubated with either CPIEPPPHH (designated the specific peptide) or CHQPLATEDY (designated the nonspecific peptide) coupled to agarose beads via their N-terminal Cys residues. The presence of the proteins in unbound or drain fraction (D, Figure 5), the wash fraction (W, Figure 5), and the fraction eluted from the peptide-agarose resin with SDS (E, Figure 5) was determined by immunoblot assay. Figure 5A shows the results of an experiment where the proteins were incubated with the resin in the presence of 75 mM NaCl. Under these conditions, (At)VAP (right panel) appeared to bind only the specific peptide, and the recombinant protein was recovered only when eluted with SDS. When applied to the nonspecific peptide, no binding occurred and the protein was completely recovered in the drain fraction. By contrast, (At)SRC2 (left panel) showed a slightly different pattern. The protein fully bound the specific peptide and was exclusively recovered in the elution fraction. However, a considerable proportion of (At)SRC2 was also able to bind to the nonspecific peptide in 75 mM NaCl. When the binding assay was performed in the presence of increasing concentrations of NaCl (Figure 5B), binding to the nonspecific peptide was diminished such that no binding was observed in 250 mM NaCl, while interaction with the specific peptide was not affected by that salt concentration. [[FIGURE]] For in vitro assays of protein interactions, increasing Na concentration is a standard method to increase the stringency of protein–protein binding. We make no claims that this mimics the environment in the cell cytoplasm (where K is the predominant monovalent cation). Indeed, within the normal environment for (At)SRC2, it is likely that other proteins would participate in a complex that interacts with a target (e.g., PIEPPPHH), and we cannot replicate such a complex. The experiment simply demonstrates that, under conditions where the Na concentration requires higher affinity interactions, (At)SRC2 prefers to interact with PIEPPPHH. These results are consistent with the results obtained in the yeast two-hybrid screen and indicate that both (At)VAP and (At)SRC2 specifically interact with PIEPPPHH as compared with HQPLATEDY. If (At)SRC2 and (At)VAP interact with the Re-F-B-α PIEPPPHH cytoplasmic sequence in vivo, we would expect to find that they colocalized with Re-F-B-α when coexpressed in cells. Therefore, tobacco protoplasts were cotransformed to express Re-F-B-α with (At)SRC2, Re-F-B-α with (At)VAP, or (At)SRC2 with (At)VAP. The protoplasts were fixed and the proteins were detected by immunofluorescence using their respective antibodies (Figure 6). The reporter protein Re-F-B-α was detected with antialeurain antibodies and, consistent with previous studies (CITATION; CITATION) was present in numerous small punctate and round organelles distributed throughout the cytoplasm that are consistent with the size of PAC vesicles. (At)SRC2 and (At)VAP were detected with their respective antipeptide antibodies. When Re-F-B-α was coexpressed with (At)SRC2, antibody labeling showed essentially complete colocalization of the two proteins, as indicated by the yellow color in the merged panel (Figure 6A, arrow), indicating that these proteins were present on the same organelles. By contrast, when (At)VAP and Re-F-B-α were coexpressed (Figure 6B), essentially all organelles labeled for (At)VAP also labeled for Re-F-B-α, but larger organelles that usually surrounded nuclei appeared to contain only Re-F-B-α but not (At)VAP (arrowhead). No labeling above background with either antibody was observed in untransformed cells (data not shown), and similar results with transformed cells were obtained with both (At)SRC2 and (At)VAP antirecombinant protein antibodies (data not shown). Thus, both (At)SRC2 and (At)VAP were present in organelles containing Re-F-B-α, and, consistently, (At)VAP colocalized with (At)SRC2 on most of the labeled organelles except larger ones that typically were near the nucleus (Figure 6C, arrowhead). [[FIGURE]] Previous studies demonstrated that the punctate and round organelles containing Re-F-B-α, PAC vesicles, and larger organelles on the PSV pathway were separate from ER and Golgi and partitioned with vacuoles during subcellular fractionation (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, one would expect that most of (At)SRC2 and (At)VAP would fractionate with a vacuolar fraction. We transformed tobacco suspension cell protoplasts with either (At)SRC2 or (At)VAP, separated cell vacuolar (Figure 7, V) and pellet (Figure 7, P) fractions, and analyzed their protein extracts on an immunoblot detected with antipeptide antibodies (Figure 7). (At)SRC2 fractionated such that ∼10% was in the pellet fraction and ∼90% was in the vacuole fraction (Figure 7A, closed arrow). Bands indicated by the open arrows represent degradation products of the protein in both P and V fractions that were variably present in different experiments; they are not present in the nontransformed protoplasts (wild type). A cross-reacting endogenous protein (arrowhead) was present in both the transformed and the wild-type protoplasts. By contrast, (At)VAP protein exclusively partitioned in the vacuolar fraction (Figure 7B). [[FIGURE]] We next determined if (At)SRC2 and (At)VAP were exposed on the limiting membranes of the organelles to which they traffic. Vacuolar fractions isolated from transformed protoplasts were subjected to proteinase K digestion (CITATION; Figure 8A). This step results in the proteolytic removal of polypeptides that are exposed on the cytoplasmic face of organelles. Proteins on immunoblots were detected with antirecombinant protein antibodies. (At)SRC2 was fully protected from protease digestion (Figure 8A, lane 5, closed arrow). Two cross-reacting endogenous proteins (open arrows), ∼35 and ∼90 kD, behaved differently and provided controls for the experiment. Similar to (At)SRC2, the ∼35-kD protein was protease resistant, while, by contrast, the ∼90-kD protein was protease sensitive and the corresponding band disappeared from samples treated with the protease (lanes 2 and 5). Treatment of the samples with Nonidet P-40 detergent solubilized membranes and verified activity of the protease; bands previously resistant to the protease (lanes 2 and 5) were completely digested in the presence of Nonidet P-40 (lanes 3 and 6). In the case of (At)VAP, almost all of the protein was protease sensitive (lane 11, closed arrow). Similarly, an endogenous doublet of ∼40 kD (open arrow) was also largely protease sensitive. [[FIGURE]] Taken together with the predicted structures of the proteins, these results indicate that in the vacuolar organelles, (At)VAP is positioned on the limiting membrane such that, for most molecules, the long N-terminal region is accessible to protease activity. By contrast, the cytoplasmic domain of (At)SRC2 was inaccessible to the protease, a result indicating either that the protein is internalized within the organelle or that the predicted type II orientation of (At)SRC2 is incorrect. We therefore compared the protease sensitivity of (At)SRC2 recovered in the nonvacuole pellet fraction to that in the vacuole fraction (Figure 8B). (At)SRC2 in the vacuole fraction (closed arrow; lanes 2 and 3) was completely resistant, while (At)SRC2 in the pellet fraction was fully accessible to the protease (lanes 5 and 6). In the panels below, control proteins were analyzed in aliquots from the same fractions used in the top panels. In the vacuole fraction, the 68-kD subunit A of the peripheral complex of vacuolar H+-ATPase (CITATION) was, as would be expected, completely digested by proteinase K. By contrast, in the pellet fraction, the lumenal ER chaperone BiP was completely protected from digestion. Thus, (At)SRC2 in membranes in the pellet fraction is exposed on the membrane surface and is accessible to protease. By contrast, in the vacuole fraction, (At)SRC2 has become inaccessible to the protease and presumably has been internalized. We hypothesized that protease-sensitive (At)SRC2 in the pellet fraction represented protein in the ER and that the protein became protease resistant in the process of moving to the vacuole fraction. However, the protein gel blot results would not exclude the possibility that protease-sensitive (At)SRC2 resulted from breakage of vacuoles during the cell fractionation process, allowing the fragmented vacuole membrane to centrifuge to the pellet. This question was addressed by testing the protease sensitivity of newly synthesized (At)SRC2 in the pellet and vacuole fractions. Protoplasts were transformed to express either (At)SRC2 (Figure 8C, top) or the chimeric reporter protein Re-F-B-B that carries the BP-80 cytoplasmic tail and traffics to a lytic compartment (Figure 8C, bottom), labeled with [35S]Met + Cys for 1 h, then separated into pellet and vacuole fractions. The fractions were treated with proteinase K, then (At)SRC2 and Re-F-B-B were immunoprecipitated and detected by fluorography. As judged from densitometry analyses of the fluorographs, without proteinase treatment, 37% of (At)SRC2 was recovered in the pellet and 63% was in the vacuole fraction. All protein (116%) in the vacuole fraction was recovered after proteinase treatment, but only 27% of the protein in the pellet fraction was proteinase resistant. Analysis of proteinase resistance by Re-F-B-B served as a control. The full-length protein migrates as a doublet, due to different extents of glycosylation (CITATION). After proteinase K treatment of the pellet fraction (lane 2), both bands of the doublet shifted to smaller size; the top band of the proteinase-treated doublet was slightly smaller in size than the bottom band of the control doublet (lane 1). This change in size was consistent with proteolytic removal of the cytoplasmic tail from both forms of the protein. We ask the reader to focus on the top band representing the most heavily glycosylated form of the protein because the amount of radioactivity in this band could be quantitated cleanly, separate from contamination by the lower band. All of this form of the protein in the pellet fraction and ∼80% of it in the vacuole fraction was sensitive to proteinase digestion. Thus, the degree of proteinase resistance observed for (At)SRC2 in both pellet and vacuole fractions was not due to inadequate proteinase K activity, but rather represented protection of the protein from the proteinase. The results indicate that (At)SRC2 moved quickly after synthesis to organelles that fractionate with vacuoles, presumably PAC vesicles, where it was fully protease resistant. By contrast, more than one-third of the newly synthesized protein remained in the pellet fraction where most of it was protease sensitive. This result argues that protein present at the site of synthesis in the ER accounts for the protease-sensitive fraction in the pellet. However, the exact site at which internalization of (At)SRC2 to protease-resistant form occurs, and the time after synthesis of an individual molecule required for internalization to occur remain to be determined by other experimental approaches. We further tested the hypothesis that (At)SRC2 is internalized in vacuoles in two ways. First, we localized endogenous (At)SRC2 in PSVs in embryo cells from dry Arabidopsis seeds. As shown in Figure 9A, these PSVs are marked by the presence of α-TIP on their limiting membranes and by a granular-appearing network labeled by anti-DIP antibodies within. Anti-(At)SRC2 recombinant protein antibodies labeled internal structures with a similar appearance (Figure 9B). When double labeling was performed with either anti-(At)SRC2 recombinant protein antibodies (Figure 9C) or anti-(At)SRC2 peptide antibodies (Figure 9D) and anti-DIP antibodies, (At)SRC2 and DIP labeling colocalized. These immunofluorescence results are fully consistent with biochemical and immunolocalization studies demonstrating the presence of a crystalloid-like structure within PSVs of Brassica napus and Arabidopsis (CITATION) and indicate that endogenous (At)SRC2 is internalized into membrane-containing structures similar to crystalloids in PSVs of Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] In a second approach, we determined the destination of (At)SRC2 and (At)VAP when expressed in transgenic tobacco seeds. Tobacco plants were stably transformed to express either (At)SRC2 or (At)VAP, expression was confirmed by immunoblot analysis of leaf extracts (data not shown), and seeds were harvested and processed for immunofluorescence studies. Seed sections from untransformed plants showed no labeling by the antibodies above background (data not shown). In transgenic seeds expressing (At)SRC2, anti-(At)SRC2 peptide antibodies labeled structures within PSVs and colocalized with anti-DIP antibodies (Figure 9E). This pattern of labeling is diagnostic of localization to the PSV crystalloid (CITATION). By contrast, transgenic seeds expressing (At)VAP showed labeling with anti-(At)VAP peptide antibodies around the periphery of PSVs, labeling that colocalized with anti-δ-TIP antibodies (Figure 9F). This labeling pattern is diagnostic of localization to the PSV tonoplast (CITATION, CITATION). These results are consistent with results from the protease protection assays in protoplast transient expression experiments. (At)VAP was predominantly exposed on the limiting membranes in the protoplast vacuole fraction and was delivered to the limiting membrane of transgenic tobacco seed PSVs, while (At)SRC2 was internalized within the protoplast vacuole fraction and was delivered to crystalloids in transgenic tobacco seed PSVs.
!~MM~! The Matchmaker Two-Hybrid System 3 was obtained from BD Biosciences Clontech, and experimental procedures were done according to its protocols. Three tandemly repeated units of the functionally defined residues, PIEPPPHH, were fused to the DNA binding domain of the bait plasmid. The coding sequence was created by annealing the complementary oligonucleotides MO962639 (5′-CGCGGATCCCCAATTGAACCACCCCCACACCACCCAATTGAACCACCCCCACACCACCCAATTGAACCACCCCCACACCACCTGCAGTTT-3′), corresponding to the sense strand carrying a BamHI site at the 5′ region, and MO962640 (5′-AAACTGCAGGTGGTGTGGGGGTGGTTCAATTGGGTGGTGTGGGGGTGGTTCAATTGGGTGGTGTGGGGGTGGTTCAATTGGGGATCCGCG-3′), corresponding to the antisense strand containing a PstI site at the 5′ region. The double-stranded DNA fragment was then digested with BamHI and PstI endonucleases and ligated into the multiple cloning site of the bait plasmid (pGBKT7 of the Matchmaker 3 kit). The resulting fusion protein was used to screen an Arabidopsis thaliana vegetative tissue cDNA library in plasmid pGAD10, also purchased from Clontech, for potential PIEPPPHH binding proteins. Expressed sequence tag clones 204L3T7 and 211P17T7, corresponding to (At)SRC2 and (At)VAP, respectively, were kindly provided by the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center at Ohio State University. Full-length (At)SRC2 and (At)VAP coding sequences were amplified from the cDNAs using the following oligonucleotides: MO1553142 (5′-GGGGATCCGCAAATTTCAAGTTTATTTCA-3′) and MO1553144 (5′-GGGAGCTCAGTGGTGGTGGTGGTGGTGGAAATCGAAACCACCCATGTC-3′) for (At)SRC2, and MO1553145 (5′-GGGGATCCCGATCGACGACTGCTCTCTCT-3′) and MO1553147 (5′-GGGAGCTCAGTGGTGGTGGTGGTGGTGTGTCCTCTTCATAATGTATCC-3′) for (At)VAP. Note that all of the four 3′ oligonucleotides, MO1553144, MO1553147, MO1553143, and MO1553146, contain a sequence coding for six His residues (underlined above), allowing the products to carry a His-tag at their C termini. The following oligonucleotides were used to prepare coding sequences for truncated proteins lacking transmembrane domains: MO1553143 (5′-GGGAGCTCAGTGGTGGTGGTGGTGGTGCTTACCATGCTTCTTCGGTTTC-3′) for Δ(At)SRC2 and MO1553146 (5′-GGGAGCTCAGTGGTGGTGGTGGTGGTGACTTTGGCTCTTTTTGCTTTC-3′) for Δ(At)VAP. For expression in plant cells, the four amplified DNA sequences were each inserted between BamHI and SacI sites of the plasmid LJ526 (CITATION). Enhanced GFP cDNA was obtained from BD Biosciences Clontech. The Phaseolus vulgaris α-TIP cDNA (GenBank accession number X62873) was generously provided by Maarten Chrispeels (University of California, San Diego, CA). PCR products were generated with appropriate oligonucleotide primers to yield the following DNA fragments with flanking restriction enzyme sites: BamHI-enhanced GFP–XhoI; XhoI–α-TIP–SacI; XhoI–α-TIP with PIEPPPHH deleted–SacI. The sequence of the oligonucleotide primer used to generate the deletion was 5′-CCGAGCTCTAGTAATCTTCAGTTGCCAAAGGTTGGATCACAGCATATTCATA-3′. The fragments were inserted sequentially as BamHI-XhoI and XhoI-SacI fragments into the appropriate intervals of LJ526 (CITATION) to yield in-frame fusions flanked by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase poly(A) addition sequence. The template for PCR amplification was the VSRAt1 cDNA (GenBank accession number U79959). The 5′ oligonucleotide placed an EcoRI site preceding nucleotide 1841: 5′-GGGAATTCGGCAAAGTTGGAACCACAAAAC-3′. The 3′ oligonucleotide changed the coding sequence for the final two amino acids to insert a BglII site immediately before the stop codon: 5′-CAAGTGGTCACCATATGAGATCTTGAGCTCCC-3′. The resulting DNA fragment was substituted for the EcoRI-SacI fragment of LJ526. The mRFP cDNA was generously supplied by Roger Tsien (University of California, San Diego) (CITATION). This sequence was amplified to place a BglII site at the 5′ end and a BamHI site at the 3′ end: 5′ oligonucleotide, 5′-GGAGATCTATGGCCTCCTCCGAGGACGT-3′; 3′ oligonucleotide, 5′-CCGGATCCGGCGCCGGTGGAGTGGCG-3′. The resulting DNA fragment was inserted into the BglII site of the modified VSRAt1 cytoplasmic tail, proper orientation was determined by digestion with BglII and SacI, and the complete construct was designated JR900. These techniques were performed as previously described using protoplasts from TxD tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) suspension culture cells (CITATION) with the following modifications. For SDS-PAGE analysis of Re-F-B-α recovered in vacuole and pellet fractions, it was first necessary to remove excess lipid by precipitating the proteins from SDS-PAGE sample buffer with 10 volumes of acetone. The acetone pellet was then resuspended in SDS-PAGE sample buffer for electrophoresis. For immunofluorescence double labeling, the first primary antibody was detected with anti-rabbit F(ab')2 fragments conjugated with lissamine rhodamine (Jackson Immunoresearch Laboratories). The second primary antibody was detected using Alexa Fluor 488 anti-rabbit IgG (Molecular Probes). Fluorescence-labeled protoplasts were examined by laser scanning confocal microscopy with an inverted compound microscope (Nikon model TE300), using a Planado ×60 oil immersion objective. Fluorescence images were collected using a Bio-Rad MRC 1024 system with a laser level of 3% and an iris setting of 2. Images were processed in an identical manner using Adobe Photoshop software. Controls accompanied all double-labeling experiments as described (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). For protoplasts expressing GFP fusion proteins, 20 μL of protoplast suspension at room temperature was diluted into an equal volume of 37°C 2% low melting point agarose (Sigma-Aldrich) in TxD suspension culture cell medium containing 0.2 M mannitol, and 20 μL was placed in a large circle drawn with a wax pencil on a microscope slide and then covered with a cover slip and sealed with clear nail polish. Slides were scanned using wide-field epifluorescence to identify cells expressing the fusion proteins, and then transfected protoplasts were imaged by laser scanning confocal microscopy using the Bio-Rad MRC 1024 system with 30% laser power and the Planado ×60 oil immersion objective. For each cell, at least two optical sections were collected at 5-μm steps beginning at the level of the nucleus. Excitation was provided by a krypton/argon laser at 488 and 568 nm; emission filters were a 585-nm EFLP filter for photomultiplier tube 1 (red), and a 522-nm DF32 filter with a 560 DF block for photomultiplier tube 2 (green). Iris settings of 3.0 were used for both channels. Two sets of polyclonal antibodies were prepared for each of the two proteins. Antirecombinant protein antibodies were prepared against the first 160 amino acids of (At)VAP and the region lying between amino acids 87 and 166 of (At)SRC2. Specific antipeptide antibodies were raised against the following synthetic peptides: 266-QAHGKPQKPKKHGK-279 for (At)SRC2 and 179-FIVDNKAGHQENT-191 for (At)VAP. The procedures followed were as described previously (CITATION). Affinity-purified antibodies (CITATION; CITATION) were used in all experiments. Before use in immunofluorescence experiments, antibodies were absorbed with acetone powder prepared from TxD suspension culture cells (CITATION) to remove cross-reactivity with endogenous tobacco proteins. Truncated (At)SRC2 [Δ(At)SRC2] and (At)VAP [Δ(At)VAP], lacking transmembrane and lumenal sequences but carrying six His residues at their C termini, were expressed in tobacco protoplasts. Cells were lysed in 6 M guanidine HCl, 100 mM NaPO4, and 10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, with continuous mixing for 1 h at room temperature, then centrifuged at 10,000g for 15 min. Four hundred microliters of a 50% slurry of Ni2+-agarose (Qiagen) was added to the supernatants and incubated for 1 h with continuous mixing. Ni2+-agarose beads were collected by centrifugation for 2 min at 1000g and washed with 8 M urea, 100 mM NaPO4, and 10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0. Ni2+-agarose–bound recombinant proteins were eluted with 800 μL of 200 mM imidazole, pH 7.7, and dialyzed against 50 μM CaCl2, 1 mM DTT, 75 mM NaCl, and 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.2. Specific (CYPIEPPPHH) and nonspecific (CHQPLATEDY) peptides were coupled to agarose beads using SulfoLink coupling gel (Pierce). Purified Δ(At)SRC2 and Δ(At)VAP were separately incubated with agarose-bound specific and nonspecific peptides for 2 h in 50 μM CaCl2, 1 mM MgCl2, 1 mM DTT, 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.2, and either 75, 150, or 250 mM NaCl. Unbound proteins were collected, the beads were washed with fresh binding buffer, and bound proteins were eluted with a 2% SDS buffer. Fractions were analyzed for the presence of Δ(At)SRC2 and Δ(At)VAP on an immunoblot using their respective antibodies. Untransformed and (At)SRC2- and (At)VAP-transformed protoplasts were centrifuged onto a 15% Ficoll layer overlaying a 68% sucrose cushion (CITATION; CITATION). Vacuole and pellet fractions were recovered from the top of the Ficoll and the interface between Ficoll/sucrose, respectively. Proteinase K (Roche Diagnostics) was dissolved at 10 mg/mL in 0.5 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EGTA, and 100 mM MES buffer, pH 6.5, and stored in aliquots at −80°C until use. Proteins exposed to the cytoplasm were digested for 1 h in the proteinase K storage buffer containing 200 mM mannitol and 10 μg/mL Proteinase K. Control samples were digested in the presence of 1% Nonidet P-40 to remove membrane barriers. Reactions were terminated by addition of phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride to 2 mM. Proteins were precipitated in 5% trichloroacetic acid, the precipitate was washed with acetone and resuspended in SDS-PAGE sample buffer, and (At)SRC2 and (At)VAP were detected on immunoblots using their respective antirecombinant protein antibodies. The lumenal ER chaperone BiP (antibodies generously provided by Alessandro Vitale, Istituto Biosintesi Vegetali, Milan, Italy) and subunit A of the peripheral complex of the vacuolar ATPase (antibodies generously provided by Masayoshi Maeshima, Nagoya University, Japan) served as controls. Tobacco plants expressing either (At)SRC2 or (At)VAP were generated using Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation as previously described (CITATION). Transgenic seeds were fixed in 3.7% paraformaldehyde, embedded, and processed as described (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers At1g09070 and At3g60600.
