!~ABS~! Regulated intramembrane proteolysis (RIP) is a fundamental mechanism for controlling a wide range of cellular functions. The Drosophila protein Rhomboid-1 (Rho-1) is an intramembrane serine protease that cleaves epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) ligands to release active growth factors. Despite differences in the primary structure of Rhomboid proteins, the proteolytic activity and substrate specificity of these enzymes has been conserved in diverse organisms. Here, we show that an Arabidopsis Rhomboid protein AtRBL2 has proteolytic activity and substrate specificity. AtRBL2 cleaved the Drosophila ligands Spitz and Keren, but not similar proteins like TGFα, when expressed in mammalian cells, leading to the release of soluble ligands into the medium. These studies provide the first evidence that the determinants of RIP are present in plants.
!~RES~! To study the molecular properties of Rhomboid proteins in plants, we conducted a computer-based search for Rhomboid-like genes in the genome of the thale cress plant, A. thaliana CITATION. There were eight Rhomboid-like genes in the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION ). Based on the BLAST results, we named the one that had the highest homology to Drosophila Rho-1 as AtRBL1. The other seven genes were AtRBL2 to AtRBL7 and KOMPEITO (KOM) (Kanaoka and Okada, unpublished data), respectively, with AtRBL2 showed the highest homology to AtRBL1 and KOM the lowest. The TMHMM program predicted that each gene encoded a protein with the typical secondary structure of the eukaryotic Rhomboid family with seven transmembrane domains (TMDs) CITATION. As is the case with this family CITATION, the overall sequence similarity was relatively low; AtRBL1 was 19.8% identical to Rho-1 and AtRBL2 was 17.7%. The region between the second TMD and sixth TMD showed the highest degree of sequence conservation with Drosophila Rho-1 (47% identical to AtRBL1 and 52% to AtRBL2), while the N-termini and the C-termini were more divergent. Despite the sequence diversity between Drosophila and Arabidopsis Rhomboid proteins, the Ser residue in the fourth TMD and the His in the sixth TMD, which formed the putative catalytic dyad found in all of Rhomboid proteins with proteolytic activity against Drosophila ligand Spitz CITATION, were conserved in AtRBL1 to AtRBL7, but the Asn may be replaced by His in KOM (CITATION). Moreover, AtBDL1 to AtRBL7 contained the conserved GASG motif surrounding the active serine CITATION. To start addressing their biological functions, we cloned and investigated the expression of the two most Rho-1 like proteins, AtRBL1 and AtABL2, by RT-PCR (CITATION ). Both genes were expressed in all tissues tested, including roots, aerial parts of seedlings, rosette leaves, stems and flowers, indicating that these genes have a function in plants. Many eukaryotic Rhomboid proteins are localized within the Golgi apparatus CITATION. Spitz, a major substrate of Rho-1 protease, is anchored in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) until Star chaperones it to the Golgi apparatus, where Rho-1 cleaves Spitz. To reveal the localization of AtRBL1 and AtRBL2, we fused each protein with the Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) and investigated the subcellular localization in protoplasts prepared from Arabidopsis suspension culture cells (CITATION ). The AtRBL1-GFP fusion protein accumulated in dot-like structures in the cytosol (CITATIONA). This pattern significantly overlapped with Venus-SYP31, a cis-Golgi marker CITATION (CITATIONA–C). Moreover, when these cells were treated with Brefeldin A (BFA), which inhibits the activity of the ARF GTPase and inhibits vesicle transport from ER to the Golgi CITATION, most of these dots disappeared and the fluorescence profile was changed to one typical for the ER pattern (CITATIONG-I). The same results were obtained when AtRBL2-GFP was tested (CITATIOND-F, J-L). These data indicate that AtRBL1 and AtRBL2 are localized to the Golgi apparatus in plant cells. While some Rhomboid proteins are imported into mitochondria where they function in membrane fusion CITATION, most localize to the Golgi apparatus and function in the secretory pathway. The observation that AtRBL1 and AtRBL2 concentrated in the Golgi apparatus thus suggests that AtRBL1 and AtRBL2 might function in the secretory pathway like Rho-1. Rhomboid is a member of the serine protease family. They are present in most sequenced genomes of archea, bacteria and eukaryotes CITATION. Members of this family from diverse organisms, including Drosophila, human and bacteria, have the ability to cleave specifically Drosophila substrates, including Spitz, Keren and Gurken CITATION. To examine whether Arabidopsis Rhomboid proteins have similar proteolytic activity, we tested the ability of AtRBL1 and AtRBL2 to cleave two Drosophila transmembrane ligands. The cleavage of Spitz and Keren can be assayed in a mammalian cell transfection system CITATION. When Spitz was cotransfected with AtRBL1 in the presence of Star, AtRBL1 could not cleave either of the two ligands (CITATION A, lane 5; B, lane 4), in spite of the sequence similarity of Rho-1 and AtRBL1 (CITATION). On the other hand, when AtRBL2 was cotransfected with Spitz and Star, the truncated form of Spitz was secreted from the cell to the media (CITATIONA, lane 4). This indicates that Spitz was cleaved by AtRBL2, producing a protein of the same size as that produced by Rho-1 (CITATIONA, lane 3). AtRBL2 also cleaved Keren in the same manner (CITATIONB, lane 3). These findings are the first evidence that a plant Rhomboid protein has proteolytic activity against transmembrane ligands, despite the striking sequence divergence between Drosophila and Arabidopsis Rhomboid proteins (CITATION). Since Spitz was secreted, it is likely that the reaction took place in the Golgi apparatus where AtRBL2 is localized, since Spitz cleaved in the ER would not be secreted from the cell CITATION. One of the characteristics of the Rhomboid protease family is that they display strong substrate specificity, and for example, do not cleave even similar proteins such as TGFα, the human homolog of Spitz CITATION. To determine whether Arabidpsis Rhomboid proteins also share this substrate specificity, we tested the ability of AtRBL1 and AtRBL2 to cleave TGFα using our transfection assay (CITATION ). As expected, TGF was cleaved well by cellular metalloproteases (CITATION, lane 1) but not by Drosophila Rho-1 (CITATION, lane 3), or AtRBL1 and AtRBL2 (CITATION, lanes 5 and 4, respectively). Since both Drosophila Rho-1 and AtBDL2 could cleave Spitz but not for TGF, these results suggest that AtRBL2 is not a nonspecific protease but rather has the same selectivity as Drosophila Rho-1. Our results showed that AtRBL2 has protein cleavage activity, but we did not show the activity of AtRBL1. AtRBL1 may have proteolytic activity on unknown substrates, and different function from those of AtRBL2. Several vertebrate Rhomboid proteins have been shown to have their own specific function CITATION. There remains, however, a possibility that AtRBL1 protein was not adequately folded in the animal cells. Further investigation would be required to check the activity of AtRBL1. In conclusion, the subcellular localization to the Golgi apparatus and the ability to cleave the Drosophila EGFR ligands but not TGF indicate that AtRBL2 is indeed a member of Rhomboid intramembrane protease family. Although the overall sequence similarity between Rho-1 and its homologues from other species is not high, amino residues surrounding the catalytic dyad are conserved in AtRBL2 (CITATION), suggesting that these motifs might important in recognition of the enzyme substrates. Although RT-PCR analysis indicated that AtRBL1 and AtRBL2 were expressed in all tissues tested (CITATION), our initial disruption of either gene alone caused no visible phenotype in plants (data not shown). Arabidopsis contains many Rhomboid-like genes, and based on the AtGen Express microarray data (http://jsp.weigelworld.org/atgen/atgen.jsp), all the Rhomboid-like genes are expressed; five Rhomboid-like genes are highly expressed in almost all tissues, while three are limited in some specific tissues. We expect that one or more of the other genes might have overlapping specificity with AtRBL1 while other members of the set might have overlapping specificity with AtRBL2. This has been demonstrated for Drosophila Rhomboid function during development CITATION. It is also possible that the phenotype may appear only under certain conditions. Further genetic analysis with double or multiple AtRBL mutants will be required to assess the biological function of Rhomboid proteins in plants. Interestingly, plants seem to have no other components of EGF signaling pathway other than Rhomboid. Neither substrates such as Spitz, Keren nor Star can be found by homology search in the genome sequences of either A. thaliana or Oryza sativa. Formally, plants may have equivalent EGF signaling components that have diverged too much from the proteins found in animals to be detected. However, this is not plausible since the EGF signaling pathway seems to have emerged in the animal lineage after that lineage diverged from plants and fungi. Moreover, Rhomboid proteases recognize a distortion in a short stretch of amino acid in a transmembrane region CITATION, so the conservation of entire protein is not required for the substrate specificity. Thus, we suggest that AtRBL2 may have a plant specific substrate. Alternatively, since the proteolytic substrates of many animal Rhomboid proteins are not known, the plant enzymes might be targeting an as yet uncharacterized but equally conserved substrates used by these other Rhomboid proteins. The identification of plant Rhomboid substrates might thus provide us with a broader understanding of substrates conserved in other eukaryotes including animals.
!~MM~! Alignments were performed using the ClustalW algorithms CITATION and modified by hand. Transmembrane domains were predicted according to the TMHMM (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM/) and TMPred (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/TMPRED_form.html) algorithms. Total RNA from inflorescences of A. thaliana (wild type Col-0 ecotype) was isolated using RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (QIAGEN, Valencia, CA, USA). The first strand cDNAs were synthesized with the SuperScriptII First-Strand Synthesis System (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). For the cloning of AtRBL1 and AtRBL2, primers were designed according to the gene prediction model of AtGDB (http://www.plantgdb.org/AtGDB/index.php). Nucleotide sequence data reported are available in the DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank databases under the Accession Nos. AB195672 (AtRBL1) and AB195671 (AtRBL2), respectively. For RT-PCR, cDNAs were synthesized from 0.9μg of total RNA with SuperScriptII First-Strand Synthesis System. The tissues used were aerial part from seedlings 10 days after germination, root from seedlings 10 days after germination, rosette leaf, cauline leaf, stem, silique and inflorescence. Following gene-specific primers were used; AtRBL1-Forward (5′-GAGATCAAGGTGGTGAATCC-3′) and AtRBL1-Reverse (5′-ACACCTCGTGCTTATGAACC-3′). AtRBL2-Forward (5′-GGAGGAAAGTAGTACATGAACATCAAGG-3′) and AtRBL2-Reverse (5′-ATGAACAGAAGTGTGATCAGAGCAGC-3′). Primers for ACT8 were followed as described in CITATION. The number of PCR cycles was 35. To make GFP-tagged constructs, G3GFP CITATION was amplified by PCR and subcloned so as to replace the GUS gene of pBI121 (Clontech, USA) to generate p35SG3GFP. AtRBL1 and AtRBL2 were inserted between the CaMV 35S promoter and G3GFP using Xba1 restriction endonuclease to generate p35SAtRBL1-G3GFP and p35SAtRBL2-G3GFP, respectively. The HindII–EcoRI fragment of p35SAtRBL1-G3GFP and p35SAtRBL2-G3GFP were cloned into pBluescript-SKII+ (Toyobo, Japan) for transient expression. To make triple Haemagglutinin (HA)-tagged constructs, all Rhomboid genes were cloned into pcDNA3.1(-) (Invitrogen) by introducing unique restriction endonuclease sites during PCR from cDNA for AtRBL1 and AtRBL2. A triple HA tag was inserted after the initiator methionine of AtRBL1 and AtRBL2. All constructs were confirmed by sequence analysis. A triple HA-tagged Rhomboid-1 was described previously CITATION. Spitz, Keren, and TGFα were tagged with GFP at their N termini as described previously CITATION. Transient expression of GFP-fused AtRBL proteins and Venus-SYP31 (a kind gift from T. Uemura) CITATION in Arabidopsis Col-0 suspension culture cells CITATION was performed by the method described previously CITATION. Transformed protoplasts were incubated under gentle agitation at 23°C for at least 8h in the dark. Transformed cells were observed with a confocal laser microscope system (LSM510META, ZEISS, Jena, Germany) with the 488nm line of an Ar/Kr laser. The fluorescence of GFP and Venus (a variant of YFP) CITATION were distinguished using META system (ZEISS, Jena, Germany). For Brefeldin A (BFA) treatment, protoplasts were incubated in the culture medium that contains 100μg/ml of BFA for 2h in room temperature. The ligand cleavage assay was performed as described in detail previously CITATION. Briefly, COS cells were transfected using Fugene6 (Roche) with 100ng of each HA-tagged Rhomboid and 250ng of other GFP-tagged constructs. Note that various concentrations of each HA-tagged Rhomboid were tested, but 100ng proved optimal for all Rhomboids that showed activity. Star was cotransfected for the analysis of Spitz and Keren but not for TGFα. Empty vector pcDNA3.1 was added to adjust the total DNA content to 1μg, which is necessary to normalize the transfection efficiency with each experiment. After 24h, the media containing transfection reagents was replaced with serum-free media, and this media was conditioned for the following 24h in the presence or absence of 20μM Batimastat, a potent metalloprotease inhibitor. Ligands were detected in cells and media by Western analysis with anti-GFP polyclonal antiserum (kind gift of Dr. Rob Arkowitz).
