!~ABS~! The maturation of c-type cytochromes requires the covalent ligation of the heme cofactor to reduced cysteines of the CXXCH motif of apocytochromes. In contrast to mitochondria of other eukaryotes, plant mitochondria follow a pathway close to that found in α- and γ-proteobacteria. We identified a nuclear-encoded protein, AtCCMH, the Arabidopsis thaliana ortholog of bacterial CcmH/CycL proteins. In bacteria, CcmH and the thioredoxin CcmG are components of a periplasmic thio-reduction pathway proposed to maintain the apocytochrome c cysteines in a reduced state. AtCCMH is located exclusively in mitochondria. AtCCMH is an integral protein of the inner membrane with the conserved RCXXC motif facing the intermembrane space. Reduction assays show that the cysteine thiols in the RCXXC motif of AtCCMH can form a disulfide bond that can be reduced by enzymatic thiol reductants. A reduced form of AtCCMH can reduce the intra-disulfide bridge of a model peptide of apocytochrome c. When expressed in Escherichia coli, AtCCMH coimmunoprecipitates with the bacterial CcmF, a proposed component of the heme lyase. Blue-native PAGE of mitochondrial membrane complexes reveals the colocalization of AtCCMH and AtCcmFN2 in a 500-kDa complex. Yeast two-hybrid assays show an interaction between the AtCCMH intermembrane space domain and A. thaliana apocytochrome c. A. thaliana ccmh/ccmh knockout plants show lethality at the torpedo stage of embryogenesis. Our results show that AtCCMH is an essential mitochondrial protein with characteristics consistent with its proposed apocytochrome c-reducing and heme lyase function.
!~RES~!  Identification and Expression of AtCCMH. We have identified a single-copy gene present on A. thaliana chromosome 1 (At1g15220) encodes a protein showing 20-25% identity with Bradyrhizobium japonicum CycL, Rhodobacter capsulatus Ccl2, Rhodobacter sphaeroides CcmH, and the N-terminal half of E. coli CcmH. In eukaryotes, orthologs of ccmH are found in nuclear genomes of angiosperms and gymnosperms and of the unicellular primitive red alga Cyanidioschyzon merolae. Up to now, no ccmH ortholog is found in protists, green algae, or mosses. EST data revealed high conservation of CCMH proteins among the plant species (60-90% identity). The reduced number of ESTs found and the absence of detection of AtCCMH transcripts by Northern experiments reflect a low level of expression. By RT-PCR experiments, we found that the gene is expressed in all A. thaliana organs and that its three introns are spliced (data not shown). The mature transcript encodes a protein of 159 aa composed of two hydrophilic domains, D1 and D2, separated by a hydrophobic domain (FIG-REF). The N-terminal signal sequence responsible for targeting the bacterial CycL to the periplasm is not conserved in plant proteins. Instead, AtCCMH has a C-terminal extension not found in bacterial proteins. The potential thiol-disulfide oxidoreductase motif (RCXXC) is located in the N-terminal D1 domain. [[FIGURE]]  AtCCMH Is Localized in the Mitochondrial Inner Membrane. The cellular localization of AtCCMH could not be predicted because no organellar N-terminal targeting sequence could be identified. The anti-AtCCMH antibodies generated against D1 recognized a unique protein in total protoplast extract prepared from A. thaliana cells, with an apparent molecular mass of 20 kDa, close to the calculated 17.9 kDa (FIG-REF). The protein was found in the purified mitochondrial fraction and was absent in both cytosolic and chloroplastic protein fractions. [[FIGURE]] Bacterial CcmH proteins are inserted into the cytoplasmic membrane with their N-terminal domain localized in the periplasm (CITATION, CITATION). Mitochondrial subfractions were analyzed to check AtCCMH location and topology. No signal was detected with the outer membrane fraction, whereas AtCCMH was immunodetected in the inner membrane fraction (FIG-REF). The nature of AtCCMH interaction with the inner membrane was investigated by alkali solubilization. Like CYTc 1, a protein with a transmembrane helix, AtCCMH remained in the insoluble fraction whereas Nad9 was found in the extrinsic protein fraction (FIG-REF). We propose that the hydrophobic domain present in AtCCMH is a transmembrane domain. The orientation of the protein predicted to follow the N-out and C-in model was investigated by treating intact mitoplasts with proteinase K. The inner membrane integrity was controlled by Nad9 detection. After the protease treatment, the signal obtained with antibodies raised against D1 was strongly reduced, thus confirming the localization of that domain (containing the RCXXC motif) in the mitochondrial intermembrane space (FIG-REF).  AtCCMH Is Essential for Embryo Development. To gain insights into the function of AtCCMH, we analyzed an A. thaliana insertion line (SALK_046872) carrying a transferred DNA (T-DNA) in the second intron. No homozygous plants for the insertion could be identified by PCR analysis, suggesting that this mutation is lethal in its homozygote state. No phenotype could be evidenced after careful observation of four individual heterozygous ccmh/CCMH plants at different stages of development. The observed kanR segregation ratio of 2:1 of their progeny indicated that there is only one insertion site and that lethality of ccmh/ccmh homozygotes is embryonic. We dissected siliques of self-fertilized ccmh/CCMH and WT plants at different stages of development. Although, in WT siliques, seeds were of uniform color, size, and shape, ccmh/CCMH immature siliques observed 7 days post-fecundation contained 25% of smaller sized pale seeds that aborted and shrank at later developmental stages (FIG-REF). The embryos from these abnormal seeds were dissected out of the mother seed tissue. PCR analysis showed that these embryos were homozygous (ccmh/ccmh) for the insertion in AtCCMH (Fig. 6, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). The effect of AtCCMH deficiency on A. thaliana embryo development was examined by comparing embryos isolated from the two types of seeds obtained from the same silique. Although green seeds contained embryos at the cotyledon stage, ccmh/ccmh embryos were arrested at the torpedo and occasionally heart stages without visible abnormality in the morphogenesis (FIG-REF). Embryos at the torpedo stage were examined by transmission electron microscopy to investigate cell differentiation and ultrastructure. Cotyledon cells of WT or heterozygote mature embryo had a regular shape and started to differentiate (FIG-REF). Nuclei with a nucleolus, chloroplasts, and mitochondria were clearly identified. Storage bodies had a round or ovoid shape. On the other hand, mutant cotyledon cells had an irregular shape, with abnormal cell wall and an enlarged intercellular space (FIG-REF). The cell content was completely disorganized, with no organelles, a denser cytosol, and smaller and more abundant storage bodies. The defect in CCMH resulted in the arrest of embryo development due to severe cellular disorder, which strongly suggests that AtCCMH is an essential gene encoding a housekeeping function. [[FIGURE]]  AtCCMH Expressed in E. coli Interacts with EcCcmF. In E. coli, CcmH is a bipartite protein with domains corresponding to B. japonicum CycL and CycH proteins (CITATION). The CycL domain containing the conserved RCXXC motif is required to synthesize c-type cytochromes whereas the CycH domain is not (CITATION). To check whether AtCCMH could replace EcCcmH, an E. coli Δccm strain (EC06) was transformed with pEM19, which contains a modified E. coli ccm operon in which AtCCMH was transitionally fused with the sequence coding for the periplasm-targeting peptide of EcCcmH and a C-terminal His-tag. The expression of AtCCMH in bacteria, as well as the insertion into the cytoplasmic membrane with a correct topology, was observed (Fig. 7, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). No holocytochrome c 550 could be detected by heme staining of periplasmic proteins, whereas the WT ccm operon allowed the formation of mature c-type cytochromes (data not shown) as reported for the E. coli operon containing a truncated CycL-like EcCcmH (CITATION). Thus, AtCCMH is unable to complement the lack of its E. coli counterpart. Because E. coli CcmH forms a complex with CcmF (CITATION), we used the complementation assay to check whether a heterologous interaction occurs in vivo between AtCCMH and EcCcmF. A membrane extract was solubilized and immunoprecipitated by using antibodies directed against EcCcmF, and indeed AtCCMH was found to coimmunoprecipitate with EcCcmF (Fig. 7).  AtCCMH and AtCcmFN2 Are Found in a 500-kDa Complex. In A. thaliana, the main conserved domain of CcmF proteins, including the “WWD” motif (CITATION), is encoded by the mitochondrial ccmFN2 gene. The association of CCMH with CcmFN2 was investigated by immunodetection of mitochondrial membrane complexes solubilized with digitonin and separated by blue-native PAGE (CITATION). In the first dimension, both anti-CCMH and anti-CcmFN2 antibodies detected a 500-kDa complex (FIG-REF). The analysis of the second denaturing dimension, reveals that the 30-kDa CcmFN2 is present in an additional complex of 700 kDa. The CCMH antibody detected a continuous signal between 450 and 650 kDa, with a main signal of 500 kDa (FIG-REF). These results strongly suggest that CCMH and CcmFN2 can be associated in a same protein complex, although this association does not seem to occur systematically. [[FIGURE]]  AtCCMH Interacts with AtCYTc-a. The proposed roles of CcmH, i.e., the reduction of apocytochrome cysteines and heme ligation (together with CcmF), imply an interaction with apocytochromes. So far, c-type apocytochromes had never been reported to interact with any Ccm proteins. We used the yeast two-hybrid system to investigate whether an interaction between AtCCMH and apocytochrome c could take place. For this purpose, the sequences coding for AtCYTc-a, an A. thaliana cytochrome c (C), and the sequences coding for D1 and D2 domains of AtCCMH (FIG-REF) were cloned in two-hybrid vectors in fusion with the activation domain (AD) and the DNA binding domain (BD) of the transcription factor Gal4. Protein interactions were assayed by growth on selective medium due to the activation of the nutritional reporter genes ADE2 and HIS3. Growth was observed for both D1-C combinations, but only background growth (on medium lacking adenine or histidine) or no growth at all (on medium lacking both adenine and histidine) was observed for the D2-C combinations (FIG-REF). This result shows that AtCCMH can indeed interact with cytochrome c and that, as predicted, D1 located in the inter-membrane space can interact with apocytochrome c, whereas D2, oriented toward the matrix, cannot. As a control, the six single constructs were cotransformed in yeast with the corresponding empty vectors (e.g., D1-AD with empty BD). The absence of growth showed that the activation of reporter genes was a true reflection of D1 interaction with apocytochrome c (FIG-REF). The interaction was quantified by the activation of lacZ, a third reporter gene. Background levels were estimated in WT yeast cells. The signal resulting from the interaction of cytochrome c with D1 was found to be 10 times higher than background levels, whereas, with D2, β-gal activity never raised above background levels (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]]  In Vitro Redox Properties of AtCCMH. The recombinant D1-His polypeptide contains the only two cysteines of AtCCMH located in the presumed catalytic RCXXC motif. When D1-His, expressed in E. coli and purified under native conditions, was reduced by a DTT excess (100-fold), ≈2 mol of thiol per mol of protein are found by using DTNB, whereas only ≈0.6 mol of thiol per mol has been titrated on untreated protein. On nonreducing PAGE, recombinant D1-His appeared mainly as monomers; this result suggests that the cysteinyl residues can form an intramolecular disulfide bridge in AtCCMH. DTT-reduced D1-His has been labeled with DTNB and then submitted to different disulfide reductases (Table 1). NTR-reduced thioredoxins h1 and h2, which differ at least by their catalytic site (WCPPC and WCGPC, respectively), are able to interact with the labeled AtCCMH cysteines releasing thionitrobenzoic acid (TNB-). Addition of glutaredoxin enhanced the TNB- release observed in the presence of both glutathione and glutathione reductase. The ability of AtCCMH to reduce apocytochrome c was tested in an experiment involving the reduced D1-His and a 12-aa synthetic peptide identical to AtCYTc-a F19-E30 containing an intramolecular disulfide. After incubation and reverse phase chromatography with a water/acetonitrile gradient, two peaks corresponding to the model peptide were eluted. MALDI mass measurement in reflector-positive mode detected two peptides of 1,420.747 Da and 1,422.766 Da, corresponding, respectively, to the oxidized and reduced form of the peptide (Fig. 8, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). We tested the reducing activity of AtCCMH in the insulin reduction assay (CITATION). Similar to its bacterial homologue RcCcl2 (CITATION), AtCCMH (in excess) was unable to reduce insulin in vitro (data not shown). Taken together, these data show that D1-His cysteines could interact with different biological disulfide reductants and the heme-binding motif of an apocytochrome c model peptide, suggesting that the RCXXC motif of CCMH can be functionally active in redox processes needed for cytochrome c maturation.
!~MM~!  Overexpression of AtCCMH and Antibody Production. The 5′ part of AtCCMH cDNA (corresponding to M1-Q84) was amplified by PCR by using P1 and P2 primers (for primer sequences, see List 1, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site) and cloned in pQE60 (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). The His-tag fusion protein (D1-His) was expressed in E. coli, purified under denaturing conditions, and injected into rabbits. Sera were purified against D1-His coupled to CnBr-activated Sepharose according to the supplier's instructions (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). A. thaliana CcmFN2-specific antibodies were raised against the peptide MKQQASVRRTYKKEM coupled with ovalbumin (N.R., unpublished data).  Coexpression of AtCCMH and EcCcm Proteins. We have constructed the plasmid pEM19, which encodes E. coli CcmA-G and a chimeric CcmH consisting of EcCcmH (M1-T19)::AtCCMH (D5-R159 + His-tag) for complementation experiment in E. coli Δccm strain EC06 (see Supporting Materials and Methods, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). For coimmunoprecipitation experiments, 500 μg of E. coli membrane proteins were solubilized and precipitated with 5 μl of anti-CcmF antibodies (CITATION) according to previous work (CITATION). E. coli spheroplasts were prepared by treatment with 8 μg/ml lysozyme in 100 mM Tris·HCl (pH 8.0) containing 20% sucrose.  Purification of A. thaliana Mitochondria and Chloroplasts, Mitoplast Preparation, and Submitochondrial Fractionation. A. thaliana protoplasts were prepared from 5-day-old suspension cell culture (CITATION). Mitochondria and chloroplast purification on Percoll step gradient, mitoplast preparation, submitochondrial fractionation, proteinase K, and alkali treatments were performed as described (CITATION).  Solubilization of Mitochondrial Complexes and Separation on Two-Dimensional Blue-Native-SDS/PAGE. Four hundred micrograms of mitochondrial membrane proteins were solubilized with digitonin, 5:1 detergent:protein (wt/wt) for 30 min on ice. Mitochondrial membrane complexes were resolved by blue-native PAGE in the first dimension followed by SDS/PAGE in the second dimension as described (CITATION).  Arabidopsis Lines. The A. thaliana ccmh mutant was obtained from the SALK T-DNA (transferred DNA) insertion lines collection (CITATION). Seeds from WT (Columbia) or mutant (SALK_046872) were sown on Murashige and Skoog medium or soil and grown under 16-h light/8-h dark cycles at 22°C/20°C.  Microscopy. Seeds were removed from siliques, fixed in 2% glutaraldehyde, and treated with Hoyer's solution (CITATION). Embryos were observed by differential interference contrast (DIC) microscopy with a Nikon E800 microscope. Isolated embryos were fixed in 2% glutaraldehyde, stained, dehydrated, and included in Epon 812 as described (CITATION). Observations of 90-μm-thick sections were performed with a Hitachi H600 transmission electron microscope at a tension of 75,000 volts.  Thiol Titration and in Vitro Redox Assay. D1-His was expressed in E. coli and purified under native conditions. The thiol content of D1-His was measured by using a 5,5′-dithiobis-2-nitrobenzoic acid (DTNB) assay as follows. D1-His (100 μmol) was reduced with 10 mM DTT for 10 min at room temperature. DTT was removed by buffer exchange by using a 10-kDa cutoff filtration membrane. Resulting thiols were labeled with 1 mM DTNB for 30 min. DTNB in excess was removed by using centrifugal filter devices. Procedures for the expression and purification of A. thaliana NADPH thioredoxin reductase B (AtNTRB), poplar thioredoxin h1 and h2 (PtTRXh1, PtTRXh2), and glutaredoxin (PtGRX) are described elsewhere (CITATION-CITATION). AtNTRB and PtTRXh2 are mitochondrial proteins (CITATION, CITATION). Interactions between labeled D1-His (6 μM) and disulfide reductants were performed in 30 mM Tris·HCl buffer (pH 8.0) by measuring the release of thionitrobenzoic acid (TNB-) after 30 min at 412 nm (ε412 = 13,600 M-1·cm-1). Thioredoxins (50 μM) and glutathione (35 μM) were reduced by using catalytic amounts of NTR (0.8 μM) and glutathione reductase (0.5 UI, Sigma), respectively, in the presence of 250 μM NADPH. Glutaredoxin was used at a concentration of 50 μM. The peptide FRTKCAQCHTVE used as a model for A. thaliana apocytochrome c-a (At1g22840) was synthesized and oxidized with DMSO (NeoMPS, Strasbourg, France). The predicted molecular mass of the peptide with an intra-disulfide bridge (1,420 Da) was verified by mass spectrometry. Equimolar amounts (85 μM) of oxidized peptide and reduced D1-His were incubated for 1 hr at 20°C and separated on a C4 column by using a Waters HPLC system. Mass measurement was carried out on a Biflex III (Bruker-Daltonik, Ettlingen, Germany) MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer used in reflector-positive mode.  Yeast Two-Hybrid Assays. cDNA fragments coding for D1 (M1-Q84) and D2 (Y105-R159) domains of AtCCMH, as well as for the full-length cytochrome c-a gene (C), were amplified with primers P7 and P8 for D1, P9 and P10 for D2, and P11 and P12 for C, then reamplified with universal primers P13 and P14 to introduce phage lambda att recombination sites. The products obtained were recombined with pDONR207 donor vectors by using Gateway technology (Invitrogen) to obtain entry vectors. These vectors were recombined with Clontech pGBKT7- and pGADT7-modified vectors (CITATION) to obtain vectors expressing all of the combinations of fusion proteins. Constructs were transformed in yeast strain pJ69-4A by heat shock. Two-hybrid assays were performed according to standard methods (CITATION). Transformation in yeast was controlled by the growth on media lacking leucine and tryptophan. The expression of the reporter genes ADE2 and HIS3 was monitored by the growth on media lacking adenine, histidine, and both. The expression of lacZ was followed by measuring at OD420 the accumulation of the product metabolized by β-galactosidase with 2.2 mM 2-nitrophenyl β-d-galactopyranoside (o-NPG, Sigma) as substrate.
