!~ABS~! The Ypt/Rab family of small G-proteins is important in regulating vesicular transport. Rabs hydrolyze GTP very slowly on their own and require GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs). Here we report the identification and characterization of OsGAP1, a Rab-specific rice GAP. OsGAP1 strongly stimulated OsRab8a and OsRab11, which are homologs of the mammalian Rab8 and Rab11 proteins that are essential for Golgi to plasma membrane (PM) and trans-Golgi network (TGN) to PM trafficking, respectively. Substitution of two invariant arginines within the catalytic domain of Oryza sativa GTPase-activating protein 1 (OsGAP1) with alanines significantly inhibited its GAP activity. In vivo targeting experiments revealed that OsGAP1 localizes to the TGN or pre-vacuolar compartment (PVC). A yeast expression system demonstrated that wild-type OsGAP1 facilitates O. sativa dissociation inhibitor 3 (OsGDI3)-catalyzed OsRab11 recycling at an early stage, but the OsGAP1(R385A) and (R450A) mutants do not. Thus, GTP hydrolysis is essential for Rab recycling. Moreover, expression of the OsGAP1 mutants in Arabidopsis protoplasts inhibited the trafficking of some cargo proteins, including the PM-localizing H+-ATPase–green fluorescent protein (GFP) and Ca2+-ATPase8–GFP and the central vacuole-localizing Arabidopsis aleurain-like protein (AALP)–GFP. The OsGAP1 mutants caused these proteins to accumulate at the Golgi apparatus. Surprisingly, OsRab11 overproduction relieved the inhibitory effect of the OsGAP1 mutants on vesicular trafficking. OsRab8a had no such effect. Thus, the OsGAP1 mutants may inhibit TGN to PM or central vacuole trafficking because they induce the sequestration of endogenous Rab11. We propose that OsGAP1 facilitates vesicular trafficking from the TGN to the PM or central vacuole by both stimulating the GTPase activity of OsRab11 and increasing the recycling of inactive OsRab11.
!~RES~! While several yeast Ypt/Rab-specific GAPs (Gyp1, Gyp5, Gyp6, Gyp7 and Gyp8) and two mammalian Rab-GAPs (GAPCenA and Rab3-GAP) have been identified, Rab-specific GAPs have not yet been isolated from plants. To address this issue, we searched the expressed sequence tag (EST) files of the O. sativa L. genome (Rice Genome Research Program, Ibaraki, Japan) and identified several EST clones with the characteristics of Rab-GAPs. A genomic DNA fragment corresponding to the EST clone AU101977 was then amplified by PCR and used as a hybridization probe to screen a rice λ ZAPII cDNA library. Eighteen positive clones were obtained from this conventional library screening. The clone containing the longest insert was sequenced and its product was denoted O. sativa GAP1 (OsGAP1). OsGAP1 consists of an open reading frame (ORF) of 2,037 bp that encodes a putative protein of 679 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular mass of 78 kDa. The alignment of the predicted amino acid sequence of OsGAP1 with that of other GAP proteins revealed six conserved domains (Fig. 1, underlined and denoted by a–f). The central region containing the putative GAP domains (residues I380–E582 in OsGAP1) shares 74, 32 and 33% amino acid sequence identity with Arabidopsis thaliana GAP, an unnamed protein in Homo sapiens, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Gyp7p, respectively. Other regions of this protein did not show any significant similarities to those of other proteins. Interestingly, similarly to previously identified GAPs, two arginine residues within the motif a and b catalytic domains of OsGAP1 were also conserved (Fig. 1, asterisks). Since these specific arginine residues are known to be essential for the catalytic activity of the Ras-, Rho- and Rab-GAPs (Rittinger et al. 1997, Scheffzek et al. 1997, Albert et al. 1999), we predicted that the arginine residues of OsGAP1 are required for its catalytic activity. To determine which of the many known OsRab homologs specifically interact with OsGAP1, in vivo binding assays were performed. Moreover, the catalytic domain of OsGAP1 was characterized by in vitro enzymatic assays. Full-length OsGAP1 fused to the LexA-DNA-binding domain was co-expressed with several B42-activation domain-fused OsRabs, namely, OsRab1, OsRab2, OsRab5, OsRab6, OsRab7, OsRab8a, OsRab8b, OsRab8c and OsRab11. Their interactions were assessed by using an X-gal filter assay. As shown in Table 1, OsGAP1 can interact with multiple OsRab proteins but interacts especially strongly with OsRab8a and OsRab11. To determine whether OsGAP1 could activate the intrinsic GTPase activity of various OsRabs, OsGAP1 and several OsRab proteins were expressed and purified by using His6-tagged and glutathione S-transferase (GST) expression vectors in Escherichia coli, respectively. To determine which OsRabs are substrates of OsGAP1, we compared the enzymatic activity of OsGAP1 by using poly(ethyleneimine)-cellulose thin-layer chromatography (PEI-cellulose TLC) to measure the percentage of [α-32P]GDP-labeled OsRab protein that was converted by OsGAP1 into GTP-labeled OsRab protein. As shown in Fig. 2A, the intrinsic GTPase activities of OsRab8a and OsRab11 were greatly increased in the presence of OsGAP1, whereas the other OsRabs tested, such as OsRab8b and OsRab8c, showed only low activities. In addition, rapid filtration assays measuring the residual amounts of [γ-32P]GTP-labeled OsRab in vitro (Fig. 2B) confirmed that OsGAP1 is highly specific for OsRab8a and OsRab11 but shows low activity for OsRab8b and OsRab8c. To determine the role the two conserved arginine residues (Arg385 and Arg450) within OsGAP1 (motif a and b, respectively, see Fig. 1) play in its GTP-hydrolyzing activity (Albert et al. 1999), the residues were substituted with alanines. The resulting mutants were named R385A and R450A. The GAP activity of these mutants was assessed by using [γ-32P]GTP-labeled OsRab proteins as substrates (see Fig. 2B). Since the GST–OsGAP1-45p mutant, a GST-fused N-terminal deletion mutant OsGAP1ΔN(1–296), has GAP activity comparable with wild-type OsGAP1 (Table 2) and was easier to produce than the bacterially produced full-length OsGAP1 due to its better yield and solubility, it was used as a positive control. As shown in Fig. 2B, both arginine mutations led to a significant loss of GAP activity. When R450A was used, all the Rab proteins tested showed nearly the same low activity as when the GAP was absent. In the case of the R385A mutant, severe loss of GAP activity was observed, especially for OsRab11. Thus, the two conserved arginine residues are critical for the catalytic activity of OsGAP1. Such apparent inactivation of OsGAP1 due to the arginine substitutions led to the question, do the mutations affect the physical interaction between OsGAP1 and its substrates? To answer this question, we performed a yeast two-hybrid interaction assay using the two arginine mutants of OsGAP1 and OsRab proteins. As shown in Table 1, while the OsGAP1 arginine mutants interacted more weakly with OsRab8 homologs and OsRab11 than wild-type OsGAP1, their interaction was still substantial, even when a double point mutation was present (R385A R450A). Thus, the GAP activity of OsGAP1 is not necessarily required for its interaction with its substrate. This has also been observed with regard to the yeast GAP Gyp7 (Albert et al. 1999). To define the catalytic site of OsGAP1, we constructed various N- and C-terminal truncated OsGAP1 proteins and used them as reaction partners with OsRab8a and OsRab11 in the GTPase activity assay. The N-terminal 296 amino acids of OsGAP1 were dispensable for its GTP hydrolysis activity, but deletion of the N-terminal 401 amino acids or the C-terminal 75 residues rendered OsGAP1 inactive (Table 2). Again, we investigated whether the lack of GAP activity of the truncated OsGAP1 proteins was caused by an impaired physical interaction between OsGAP1 and OsRab8a or OsRab11. To do so, a yeast two-hybrid interaction assay was performed. As shown in Table 2, neither the N-terminal deletion mutants lacking one of the GAP domains nor the C-terminal truncation mutant OsGAP1(1–604) interacted with OsRab8a or OsRab11. These results suggest that both a C-terminal region and the GAP domain contribute to the efficient binding of OsGAP1 to OsRab8a and OsRab11. The GTP hydrolysis catalyzed by Rab GAPs after vesicles fuse with their target membranes has been suggested to facilitate the recycling of Ypt/Rab GTPase mediated by GDIs (Du and Novick 2001). To assess whether OsGAP1 serves in the recycling of OsRab8a and OsRab11 from target membranes into the cytosol, we used a yeast expression system. When GST-tagged OsRab8a and OsRab11 genes were expressed under the direction of the GAL1 promoter in the yeast gdi deletion strain sec19/gdi1Δ, most of the GST–OsRab8a proteins were detected in the cytosolic pool (data not shown), whereas GST–OsRab11 appeared in the membrane pool. Thus, OsRab11 was chosen for this experiment. First, GST-tagged OsRab11 was co-transformed with hemagglutinin (HA)-OsGDI3, which was previously generated in our laboratory (Nahm et al. 2003, Seo et al. 1997), or with T7-OsGAP1. The total proteins in the transformed cells were then ultracentrifuged to divide the cytosolic from the membrane fractions, and the fractions were subjected to immunoblotting analysis using anti-GST antibody. As shown in Fig. 3A, a small portion of the GST–OsRab11 proteins was transferred from the membrane to the cytosol with the aid of HA-OsGDI3 protein. This transfer was not observed when GST-tagged OsRab11 was transformed along with T7-OsGAP1. When GST-tagged OsRab11 was co-transformed with both HA-OsGDI3 and T7-OsGAP1, the cytosolic pool of GST–OsRab11 was greatly increased. However, only a small portion of GST-tagged OsRab11 appeared in the cytosolic fraction when it was co-transformed with HA-OsGDI3 and one of the OsGAP1 mutants (R385A and R450A). This suggests that OsGAP1 GTPase activity may be involved in the recycling of GST–OsRab11, especially early in the recycling process, prior to the release of OsRab11 by OsGDI3. To confirm the in vivo expression of the various protein constructs used in this experiment, Western blot analysis was performed. Monoclonal anti-T7 and anti-HA antibodies were used to detect wild-type/mutant T7-OsGAP1 and HA-OsGDI3, respectively. As shown in Fig. 3C, all the proteins were produced at similar levels. Thus, the differences in the amount of GST-tagged OsRab11 released into the cytosol in the presence of OsGDI3 and/or wild-type/mutant OsGAP1 are not due to varying protein expression levels. To understand the physiological roles that OsGAP1 plays in more detail, it is necessary to assess its intracellular distribution. To this end, we transformed Arabidopsis protoplasts with green fluorescent protein (GFP) vector only (as a control) or with GFP-fused OsGAP1 and observed the localization of the GFP signal with a fluorescence microscope. As shown in Fig. 4A and C, while the GFP signal of the GFP vector was observed in the cytosol, that of OsGAP1 showed a punctate staining pattern, which suggests a distribution in the Golgi and pre-vacuolar compartment (PVC) (Jin et al. 2001, Inaba et al. 2002). We also examined the effect on OsGAP1 distribution of brefeldin A (BFA), which redistributes cis- and medial-Golgi proteins to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). To check that BFA has this effect, we transformed protoplasts with AtERD2–GFP, a cis-Golgi marker (Ritzenthaler et al. 2002, Takeuchi et al. 2002) (Fig. 4B). BFA treatment caused AtERD2–GFP to be almost completely redistributed to the ER from the Golgi. In contrast, OsGAP1–GFP was not redistributed to the ER by BFA treatment (Fig. 4C). This suggests that OsGAP1 localizes to the trans-Golgi network (TGN) or PVC, but not to the cis- or medial-Golgi. To confirm the localization of OsGAP1–GFP to the TGN or PVC, OsGAP1–GFP was co-transformed with AtVti1a–red fluorescent protein (RFP) into Arabidopsis protoplasts. AtVti1a is a plant cell marker for the TGN and/or PVC (Zheng et al. 1999). As shown in Fig. 4D, most of the AtVti1a–RFP signals overlapped with the OsGAP1–GFP signal, as indicated by the yellow signals in the merged images. These data confirm that OsGAP1 localizes to the TGN and/or PVC. We have shown that the R385A or R450A mutation in motif a or b of the GAP domain markedly reduces the GTPase activity of OsGAP1 (Fig. 2B). To understand the biological roles of the GTP-hydrolyzing activity of OsGAP1, we used an in vivo trafficking assay (Kim et al. 2001) that follows transiently expressed reporter proteins destined for specific organelles in protoplasts. Since the data described above suggest OsGAP1 probably localizes to the TGN and/or PVC, we selected H+-ATPase to act as a reporter protein as it is a cargo protein that is transported to the plasma membrane (PM) through the TGN (Kim et al. 2001). H+-ATPase was fused with GFP and the effect of T7-OsGAP1(R385A) on its trafficking was examined. When protoplasts were transformed with H+-ATPase–GFP alone or together with wild-type T7-OsGAP1, in most cells (>95%), H+-ATPase–GFP was targeted to the PM (Fig. 5A, C). However, when H+-ATPase-GFP was co-expressed with T7-OsGAP1(R385A), the trafficking of H+-ATPase–GFP to the PM was significantly inhibited (<70%) (Fig. 5B, C). Interestingly, the co-transformation of H+-ATPase–GFP with the T7-OsGAP1(R385A) mutant led to three different H+-ATPase–GFP staining patterns (Fig. 5B), with 65, 5 and 30% of the cells showing PM localization, cytosol localization and punctate staining patterns, respectively (Fig. 5C). This indicates that the overproduction of mutant T7-OsGAP1(R385A) interferes with the transport of H+-ATPase–GFP to the PM, causing this cargo protein to accumulate at other sites. The T7-OsGAP1(R450A) mutant had a similar effect on H+-ATPase–GFP localization, as shown in Fig. 5C. To confirm that the wild-type and mutant T7-OsGAP1 proteins were produced in the transformed protoplasts, the total protoplast proteins were investigated by Western blot analysis using a monoclonal anti-T7 antibody. As shown in Fig. 5D, the T7 antibody detected a protein band at 78 kDa, which is the expected size of OsGAP1 and its mutants. Thus, GTP hydrolysis is required for the trafficking process that is induced by the Rab protein. H+-ATPase–GFP moves through the ER and Golgi via the secretory pathway (Hager et al. 1991, DeWitt et al. 1996); if this pathway is blocked (by overproduced OsGAP1 mutant, for example), H+-ATPase–GFP may accumulate in these organelles. To test this possibility, we co-transformed protoplasts with H+-ATPase–GFP, OsGAP1 (R385A) and the Golgi marker AtERD2–RFP. As shown in Fig. 6A, in the presence of OsGAP1(R385A), the AtERD2–RFP signal appeared as a punctate staining pattern and clearly overlapped with that of H+-ATPase–GFP. This suggests that OsGAP1(R385A) causes H+-ATPase–GFP to accumulate at the Golgi apparatus. In addition, to confirm that overproduced OsGAP1(R385A) alters the localization of AtERD2–RFP, we transformed protoplasts with AtERD2–RFP and the ER marker protein GFP–Bip (Kim et al. 2001) in the presence or absence of OsGAP1(R385A). As shown in Fig. 6B and C, GFP–Bip and AtERD2–RFP localized at the ER and Golgi apparatus, respectively, regardless of whether overproduced OsGAP1(R385A) was expressed. To define where AtERD2–RFP was distributed, the localization of these two cargo proteins was investigated again in the presence or absence of BFA. In the absence of BFA, as shown in Fig. 6B and C, the two proteins moved separately but, in the presence of BFA, their staining images overlapped completely. All these data indicate that OsGAP1(R385A) does not affect the trafficking of AtERD2–RFP, and that AtERD2–RFP can be relocated by BFA to the ER along a retrograde pathway. The latter observation means that AtERD2–RFP localizes to the Golgi apparatus. The effect of the two overproduced OsGAP1 mutants on another PM protein, Ca2+-ATPase8 (ACA8) of Arabidopsis (Bonza et al. 2000), was also examined. As shown in Fig. 7A, when ACA8–GFP was produced in protoplasts without exogenously supplied T7-OsGAP1(R385A), it was transported in an anterograde way from the Golgi to the PM. Interestingly, the trafficking of ACA8–GFP was inhibited when either of the two arginine mutants of OsGAP1 was overproduced, resulting in the accumulation of ACA8–GFP at the Golgi (Fig. 7B, C). This was very similar to the effect of the OsGAP1 mutants on H+-ATPase–GFP distribution, suggesting that the two arginine mutants of OsGAP1 have the same inhibitory effect on the trafficking of these two PM proteins. Since the two arginine mutants of OsGAP1 inhibited TGN to PM trafficking and OsGAP1 localizes to the TGN or PVC, we asked whether these mutants can also influence TGN to central vacuole trafficking. To answer this, Arabidopsis aleurain-like protein (AALP) was used as a central vacuole marker protein (Ahmed et al. 2000). Arabidopsis protoplasts expressing an OsGAP1 mutant were transformed with GFP-fused AALP and the GFP patterns were observed. When AALP–GFP alone was expressed, the majority of the transformed protoplasts showed vacuolar GFP patterns (Fig. 8Aa); a minor portion showed an ER pattern (Fig. 8Ab). In contrast, the arginine mutants of OsGAP1 markedly reduced the vacuolar GFP pattern of AALP–GFP, increased the frequency of the ER pattern, and induced the appearance of a new punctate pattern (Fig. 8Ac, C). To define the punctuate pattern of AALP–GFP, it was co-transformed with AtERD2–RFP in protoplasts expressing OsGAP1(R385A). The AtERD2–RFP signal overlapped with the punctate staining of AALP–GFP, suggesting that AALP–GFP had accumulated at the Golgi due to the inhibitory effect of the OsGAP1 mutant. To demonstrate clearly the inhibitory effect of two OsGAP1 arginine mutants on TGN to central vacuole trafficking, we performed Western blot analysis using the GFP antibody. Vacuolar proteins are known to be subjected to partial proteolysis during vacuolar trafficking and/or in the vacuole (Jiang and Rogers 1998). As shown in Fig. 8D, the 30 kDa band intensity of AALP–GFP was reduced when this marker protein was co-expressed with two OsGAP1 arginine mutants in protoplasts. This was consistent with the results of analyses of the aforementioned staining pattern and trafficking efficiency. In addition, we examined the effect of the OsGAP1 mutants using another vacuole marker, sporamin (Spo) (Kim et al. 2001). When Spo–GFP was co-transformed with OsGAP1(R385A) in protoplasts, the trafficking of Spo–GFP to the central vacuole was inhibited to levels similar to AALP–GFP (data not shown). These observations together suggest that OsGAP1 may be involved in the trafficking of central vacuole proteins as well as PM proteins via the TGN. Several observations together suggest that overproduction of the OsGAP1 arginine mutants results in the sequestration of endogenous Rab proteins, especially Rab11 and Rab8, thereby significantly inhibiting the TGN to PM or central vacuole trafficking. First, the two OsGAP1 mutants continue to interact with their substrates (Table 1) and inhibit the recycling of OsRab11 (Fig. 3B). Secondly, mammalian Rab11 and Rab8 are known to traffick from the TGN to the PM and from the Golgi to the PM, respectively (Peranen et al. 1996, Chen et al. 1998). To determine whether overproducing OsRab11 and OsRab8a could overcome the OsGAP1 mutant-mediated inhibition of TGN to PM or central vacuole trafficking, the two cargo proteins H+-ATPase–GFP and ACA8–GFP were co-transformed with HA-OsRab11 or HA-OsRab8a into protoplasts expressing OsGAP1(R385A). As shown in Fig. 9A, overproducing HA-OsRab11 relieved the inhibitory effect of OsGAP1(R385A) on the trafficking of the two PM cargo proteins; however, HA-OsRab8a did not. The same experiment was then used to assess whether overproducing OsRab11 and OsRab8a could overcome the OsGAP1 mutant-mediated inhibition of TGN to central vacuole trafficking. For this, the AALP–GFP protein was used. Interestingly, as with H+-ATPase–GFP and ACA8–GFP, overproduced OsRab11 relieved the inhibitory effect of OsGAP1(R385A) on the trafficking of AALP–GFP whereas OsRab8a did not (Fig. 9A). To confirm that HA-OsRab11 and HA-OsRab8a were properly expressed, Western blot analysis was performed by using anti-HA antibody. As shown in Fig. 9B–D, the HA antibody detected a 24 kDa protein band, which is the expected size of HA-OsRab11 and HA-OsRab8a. These observations together suggest that overproducing the OsGAP1 mutants interferes with the recycling of endogenous Rab11 in protoplasts by sequestering it. This blocks the trafficking of proteins from the TGN to the PM or the central vacuole.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) was grown on plates containing Murashige and Skoog medium at 22°C in a growth chamber under the conditions of 70% relative humidity and a 16 h light/8 h dark cycle. A probe to detect a Rab-GAP cDNA in rice (O. sativa L.) was prepared by PCR amplification using primers designed on the basis of a nucleotide sequence in the EST database (GenBank accession number AU101977). PCR amplification and library screening were performed as described previously (Nahm et al. 2003). In addition, the Rab-GDI OsGDI3 (GenBank accession number AU094095) cDNA was also isolated by the same procedure, The mutant GAPs OsGAP1(R385A) and (R450A) were constructed by PCR using the following primers: 5′-CCATGTTCTGGCGAAAGAGGTCTG-3′ and 5′-CAGACCTCTTTCGCCAGAACATGG-3′, and 5′-GATGTGGTGGCGACAGATAGATCA-3′ and 5′-TGATCTATCTGTCGCCACCACATC-3′, respectively. The T7 epitope tag was added to the N-terminus of OsGAP1 and its mutants and BamHI/XhoI digestion fragments of each sequence were ligated into the same restriction sites of the pET21a(+) vector (Novagen, Madison, WI, USA). XbaI/XhoI fragments from the ligated constructs encoding T7-OsGAP1, T7-OsGAP1 (R385A) and T7-OsGAP1(R450A) were subsequently isolated and their sequences were confirmed by nucleotide sequencing. The OsGAP1 constructs were then placed under the control of the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter in a pUC vector. Both GFP- and RFP-fused OsGAP1 constructs were made by placing the OsGAP1-coding region in-frame at the C-terminus of the GFP- or RFP-coding regions after removing their termination codons. To express the OsRab11 gene in yeast, its ORF was first placed under the control of the GAL1 promoter in pEMBLyex4, which contains GST (Baldari et al. 1987). The yeast sec19/gdi1Δ cells, which are denoted as YER136w (Mat a/a; his3Δ1/his3Δ1; leu2Δ0/leu2Δ0; lys2Δ0/LYS2; MET15/met15Δ0; ura3Δ0/ura3Δ0; YER136w::kanMX4/YER 136w) and were obtained from EUROSCARFE, were co-transformed with GST-tagged OsRab11, HA-OsGDI3, and T7-OsGAP1 and its mutants. Transformants were cultured in minimal glucose medium at 30°C for 14 h and then transferred and cultured in new galactose medium at 30°C for 9 h. The total cell lysates were ultracentrifuged at 100,000×g for 30 min to obtain cytosol and membrane fractions. Each sample was analyzed by SDS–PAGE and immunobloting. GTP hydrolysis assays were performed in two ways. One involved the use of PEI-cellulose TLC plates and was carried out according to the method of Seo et al. (1997) with a slight modification. Briefly, the reaction was performed at 30°C in a buffer containing 20 mM Na·HEPES, pH 8.0, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM dithiothreitol, 1 mM MgCl2, 1 mM NaN3, 4 µM GTP, 33 nM [α-32P]GTP, 1 mM ATP and 0.5 µg of OsRab proteins, with or without 0.5 µg of OsGAP1. Aliquots of 10 µl were sampled at appropriate time intervals and the same volume of 0.5 M EDTA (pH 8.0) was added to stop the reaction. Samples (2 µl) were spotted onto PEI-cellulose TLC plates, which were then developed in 0.5 M KH2PO4, pH 3.4 solution. After drying, the plate was exposed to an X-ray film. The other method involved the rapid filtration assay (Seo et al. 1997). The rest of the procedure was exactly as described above except that [γ-32P]GTP-labeled OsRab proteins were used instead of [α-32P]GTP-labeled proteins. Transient expression of the GFP- and RFP-fused constructs in Arabidopsis protoplasts was performed according to the method described by Jin et al. (2001). Briefly, recombinant plasmids were introduced by polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation into Arabidopsis protoplasts that had been prepared from leaf tissues. Expression of the fusion constructs was monitored at various times after transformation by observation under a fluorescence microscope (Olympus AX70 TR, Olympus, Tokyo, Japan). To prepare cell extracts from protoplasts, transformed protoplasts were lysed by repeated freeze–thaw cycles and then centrifuged at 7,000×g for 5 min at 4°C in a microcentrifuge to remove cell debris (Jin et al. 2001). The total protein extracts were separated on a 12% SDS–polyacrylamide gel, electroblotted onto a nitrocellulose membrane using a semi-dry electro-blotter (Mini Trans-Blot Cell; BIO-RAD, Hercules, CA, USA), and incubated with each of the indicated antibodies. A Hybrid Hunter Version D kit (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) was used for the two-hybrid assay. Full-length, point mutants or partial coding regions of OsGAP1 were fused to the pHybLexZeo vector, and various OsRab protein-coding genes, OsRab1, OsRab2, OsRab5, OsRab6, OsRab7, OsRab8a, OsRab8b, OsRab8c and OsRab11, isolated by reverse transcription–PCR from a rice cDNA library, were cloned into the pYESTrp2 plasmid containing the B42-activation domain. Interactions among fusion proteins were investigated by co-transforming appropriate plasmids into the yeast reporter strain L40. Transformed yeast cells bearing these two plasmids were selected on synthetic complete (SC) medium lacking tryptophan (Trp), uracil (Ura), leucine (Leu), lysine (Lys) and histidine (His) (SC-Trp, Ura, Leu, Lys, His), or on SC-Trp, Ura, Leu, Lys medium lacking histidine only, as a control. Histidine-positive colonies were tested further for β-galactosidase (LacZ) activity according to the manufacturer’s protocol (Invitrogen). The growth of blue colonies in histidine-deficient medium indicates a positive interaction. The positive yeast colonies were isolated and identified. Plasmids from these colonies were recovered and the presence of the insert sequences was reconfirmed by restriction analysis and sequencing.
