!~ABS~! Auxin is important for lateral root (LR) initiation and subsequent LR primordium development. However, the roles of tissue-specific auxin signaling in these processes are poorly understood. We analyzed transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the stabilized mutant INDOLE-3 ACETIC ACID 14 (IAA14)/SOLITARY-ROOT (mIAA14) protein as a repressor of the auxin response factors (ARFs), under the control of tissue-specific promoters. We showed that plants expressing the mIAA14-glucocorticoid receptor (GR) fusion protein under the control of the native IAA14 promoter had the solitary-root/iaa14 mutant phenotypes, including the lack of LR formation under dexamethasone (Dex) treatment, indicating that mIAA14-GR is functional in the presence of Dex. We then demonstrated that expression of mIAA14-GR under the control of the stele-specific SHORT-ROOT promoter suppressed LR formation, and showed that mIAA14-GR expression in the protoxylem-adjacent pericycle also blocked LR formation, indicating that the normal auxin response mediated by auxin/indole-3 acetic acid (Aux/IAA) signaling in the protoxylem pericycle is necessary for LR formation. In addition, we demonstrated that expression of mIAA14-GR under either the ARF7 or the ARF19 promoter also suppressed LR formation as in the arf7 arf19 double mutants, and that IAA14 interacted with ARF7 and ARF19 in yeasts. These results strongly suggest that mIAA14-GR directly inactivates ARF7/ARF19 functions, thereby blocking LR formation. Post-embryonic expression of mIAA14-GR under the SCARECROW promoter, which is expressed in the specific cell lineage during LR primordium formation, caused disorganized LR development. This indicates that normal auxin signaling in LR primordia, which involves the unknown ARFs and Aux/IAAs, is necessary for the establishment of LR primordium organization. Thus, our data show that tissue-specific expression of a stabilized Aux/IAA protein allows analysis of tissue-specific auxin responses in LR development by inactivating ARF functions.
!~RES~! We previously showed that expression of mIAA14 cDNA under the native IAA14 promoter (2.0 kb) resulted in expression of the slr phenotype in roots, including the absence of LR formation, very limited root hair formation, and a reduced gravitropic response in roots (CITATION). To control the timing of mIAA14 expression during development, we used an inducible system with the GR (CITATION; CITATION) and produced transgenic plants expressing mIAA14-GR fusion cDNA under the control of the native IAA14 promoter in a wild-type (Col) background. In the absence of dexamethasone (Dex), 10-day-old pIAA14::mIAA14-GR seedlings showed the normal LRs, root hairs, and gravitropism characteristic of the wild-type phenotype (Figure 1a). By contrast, 10-day-old pIAA14::mIAA14-GR seedlings grown on the 1 μm Dex-containing medium displayed almost no LR formation, almost no root hair formation (Figure 1b,c), and a reduced primary root gravitropic response (data not shown). These phenotypes are nearly identical to those of the slr mutant (CITATION), indicating that the mIAA14-GR protein is functional in the presence of Dex. We also observed expression of the pCyclinB1;1::CyclinB1;1(NT)-GUS reporter which allowed us to identify LR initiation sites (CITATION) in the pIAA14::mIAA14-GR line. Ten-day-old Dex-treated pIAA14::mIAA14-GR/pCyclinB1;1::CyclinB1;1(NT)-GUS seedlings contained almost no LR initiation sites with GUS activity along the primary roots (Figure 1e), indicating that the mIAA14-GR protein blocks pericycle cell divisions, much as the mIAA14 protein does in the slr mutant. In addition, Dex-treated pIAA14::mIAA14-GR seedlings were less sensitive to exogenous auxin in the LR induction assay (Figure 2), i.e. Dex-treated pIAA14::mIAA14-GR seedlings produced fewer LRs in response to exogenous IAA, whereas untreated seedlings produced as many LRs as wild-type plants, indicating that mIAA14-GR could also block auxin-induced LR formation in the presence of Dex. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To confirm the cellular localization of the mIAA14-GR protein, we produced plants expressing the GFP-tagged mIAA14-GR fusion protein under the control of the IAA14 promoter (pIAA14::GFP-mIAA14-GR) in a wild-type background. In the absence of Dex, the pIAA14::GFP-mIAA14-GR seedlings had the wild-type phenotype (data not shown) and had very weak GFP signals in the cytoplasm and nuclei of stele cells along the root, and in the epidermis at the root tip (Figure 1f,h). By contrast, the pIAA14::GFP-mIAA14-GR seedlings grown on Dex-containing media exhibited the slr phenotype (no LRs, few root hairs and reduced gravitropism; data not shown) and had strong GFP signals in the nuclei of stele cells along the root and in the epidermis and lateral root cap at the root tip (Figure 1g,i). The tissue specificity of GFP-mIAA14-GR expression under the control of the IAA14 promoter was the same as the pIAA14::GUS and pIAA14::mIAA14-GFP patterns (CITATION; data not shown). These results indicate that the GFP-mIAA14-GR protein is functional with Dex treatment. In previous work, the 2.0-kb IAA14 promoter was shown to be insufficient for expression in aerial shoots and hypocotyls (CITATION). Consistent with previous findings, Dex-treated pIAA14::mIAA14-GR seedlings displayed no obvious phenotype in the aerial shoots and hypocotyls (data not shown). Taken together, these results indicate that the mIAA14-GR protein is functional in the presence of Dex, and acts as a repressor to block LR formation when it is expressed by the native IAA14 promoter. We investigated whether mIAA14-GR blocked LR formation specifically in the region where it was activated during root growth. When 4-day-old pIAA14::mIAA14-GR seedlings from media that contained no Dex, and which had no visible LRs, were transferred onto Dex-containing media and incubated for an additional 4 days, there was no production of LRs on newly grown primary roots (Figure 3b), whereas primary roots formed on Dex-free media produced LRs normally (Figure 3a). These results indicate that activation of mIAA14-GR from 4 days after germination can block subsequent LR formation. The pIAA14::mIAA14-GR seedlings grown in the absence of Dex formed several LRs in the older, proximal root zone, even after transfer onto Dex-containing media (Figure 3b), suggesting that these LRs were initiated on the Dex-free medium. By contrast, the distal (younger) root region of the Dex-untreated pIAA14::mIAA14-GR seedlings did not produce any LRs after transfer to Dex-containing media (Figure 3b), suggesting that activated mIAA14-GR could block LR formation in this region. However, when 4-day-old Dex-treated pIAA14::mIAA14-GR seedlings with no LRs were transferred onto Dex-free media, the new growth began to form normal LRs (Figure 3d), whereas the seedlings transferred onto Dex-containing media did not produce LRs (Figure 3c). These results indicate that the removal of Dex allows LR formation during subsequent root growth. In this treatment, several LRs developed from the region pre-treated with Dex after transfer onto Dex-free media, especially in the distal (younger) root region (Figure 3d), indicating that these LRs were initiated after Dex depletion, probably as a result of the inactivation of mIAA14-GR. Together, these Dex-shift experiments indicate that LR formation in pIAA14::mIAA14-GR seedlings is blocked in the root region where the mIAA14-GR protein is activated. [[FIGURE]] Because IAA14 promoter activity has been observed at high levels not only in the stele but also in the epidermis at the root tip (CITATION), it has not yet been determined which tissue expressing mIAA14 contributes to blocking LR formation in slr. To determine whether activated mIAA14-GR expression in the stele blocked LR formation, we used the stele-specific promoter of the SHORT-ROOT (SHR) gene in Arabidopsis (CITATION). The 2.5-kb SHR promoter is activated in the initial and daughter cells of the stele, including the pericycle (CITATION). When plants expressing mIAA14-GR under the control of the SHR promoter (pSHR::mIAA14-GR) were germinated on Dex media, they developed almost no LRs, whereas pSHR::mIAA14-GR seedlings not treated with Dex had normal LR development (Figure 4a–c). As shown in Figure 2, LR induction assays also showed that the Dex-treated pSHR::mIAA14-GR seedlings were less sensitive to exogenous auxin: Dex-treated pSHR::mIAA14-GR seedlings produced fewer LRs in response to exogenous auxin, indole-3 acetic acid (IAA), than the seedlings that were not treated with Dex. In contrast to the pIAA14::mIAA14-GR seedlings, Dex-treated pSHR::mIAA14-GR seedlings appeared to have normal root hairs and root gravitropism (Figure 4a,b), suggesting that the auxin response in the stele does not contribute to root hair formation and root gravitropism. These results indicate that a normal auxin response mediated by Aux/IAA signaling in the stele is necessary for LR formation. [[FIGURE]] Arabidopsis LRs are initiated from the protoxylem-adjacent pericycle (protoxylem pericycle) in the stele (CITATION). To determine whether protoxylem pericycle-specific expression of activated mIAA14-GR blocked LR formation, we used the targeted mis-expression system with the GAL4-VP16-based enhancer trap line J0121, in which GAL4-VP16 was expressed in the protoxylem pericycle of the root. In this line, the activity of GAL4-VP16 can be monitored by GFP expression under the control of the Upstream Activating Sequence (UAS) (http://www.plantsci.cam.ac.uk/Haseloff/geneControl/catalogues/Jlines/record/record_0.html; Figure 5a,b). As shown in Figure 5(c), J0121 seedlings transformed with the 5xUAS::mIAA14-GR gene produced almost no LRs under Dex treatment, unlike the parental J0121 line. Almost no LR initiation sites were observed in Dex-treated 5xUAS::mIAA14-GR/J0121 seedlings (data not shown), indicating that expression of activated mIAA14-GR in the protoxylem pericycle is sufficient to block LR initiation. These results indicate that the normal auxin response mediated by Aux/IAA signaling in the protoxylem pericycle is crucial for LR formation, and particularly for LR initiation. [[FIGURE]] It was recently shown that ARF7 and ARF19 are key regulators necessary for the formation of LRs (CITATION; CITATION). As both the 2.5-kb ARF7 promoter::GUS and 2.5-kb ARF19 promoter::GUS reporters are expressed in the stele where IAA14 is expressed (CITATION; CITATION), it is thought that the mIAA14 protein of the slr mutant may repress the activity of ARF7 and ARF19 through interaction between domains III and IV. To determine whether mIAA14 expression in either the ARF7 or ARF19 expression domain blocked LR formation, we produced plants expressing mIAA14-GR under the control of either the 2.5-kb ARF7 or the 2.5-kb ARF19 promoter (pARF7::mIAA14-GR, pARF19::mIAA14-GR). When plants expressing mIAA14-GR under the control of either the ARF7 or the ARF19 promoter were germinated on Dex media, they developed no LRs, as was observed in the arf7 arf19 double mutants (Figure 6b,d), whereas pARF7::mIAA14-GR and pARF19::mIAA14-GR seedlings without Dex had normal LR development (Figure 6a,c). We confirmed that IAA14 interacts with ARF7 and ARF19 in the yeast two-hybrid system (Figure 6e), supporting our hypothesis that IAA14 represses the activities of ARF7 and ARF19. These results strongly suggest that the mIAA14-GR protein expressed in the pARF7::mIAA14-GR and pARF19::mIAA14-GR transgenic plants directly inactivates ARF7/ARF19 functions where ARF7 and ARF19 are co-expressed, thereby blocking LR formation. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether expression of activated mIAA14-GR in the LR primordium affected LR primordium development, we used the promoter of the SCARECROW (SCR) gene in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION). The SCR gene, which is expressed in the endodermis, cortex/endodermal initials, and quiescent center (QC) in the root apical meristem, is also expressed during LR primordium development (CITATION; CITATION). SCR expression starts at stage II, in the outer daughter cells after periclinal cell divisions of the pericycle, and is present in the cell lineage that makes the endodermis, cortex/endodermal initials, and QC in future LRs (CITATION). We produced plants expressing mIAA14-GR under the control of the SCR promoter (pSCR::mIAA14-GR). Whereas 10-day-old pSCR::mIAA14-GR seedlings not treated with Dex exhibited the wild-type phenotype (Figure 7a), Dex-treated pSCR::mIAA14-GR seedlings were severely impaired in LR formation; there were no visible LRs under a dissecting microscope (Figure 7b). There were 13.4 ± 0.5 [mean ± standard error (SE)] LRs per primary root in pSCR::mIAA14-GR seedlings not treated with Dex, and 0.0 ± 0.0 LRs per primary root in Dex-treated pSCR::mIAA14-GR seedlings (n > 32). Dex treatment also caused reduced root growth, with a mean (±SE) primary root length of 56.7 (±0.7) mm for pSCR::mIAA14-GR seedlings not treated with Dex and 40.2 (±1.6) mm for Dex-treated pSCR::mIAA14-GR plants (n > 13), but did not affect root hair formation. In addition, Dex-treated pSCR::mIAA14-GR seedlings were less sensitive to exogenous IAA in the LR induction assay (Figure 2). However, we observed that 10-day-old Dex-treated pSCR::mIAA14-GR primary roots had an increased number of early LR primordia at stage II (two layers of cells; Figure 7c), and at stages III and IV (three and four cell layers of LR primordium). As shown in Table 1, whereas 10-day-old pSCR::mIAA14-GR primary roots not treated with Dex had a mean (±SE) of only 5.3 (±0.8) LR primordia per primary root during stages I–IV (20.9% of total initiation sites), 10-day-old Dex-treated pSCR::mIAA14-GR primary roots had 29.3 (±2.2) LR primordia per root during stages I–IV (97.7% of total initiation sites). The total number of initiation sites per primary root in the pSCR::mIAA14-GR seedlings was not significantly changed by Dex treatment (Table 1). These observations suggest that LRs were normally initiated in Dex-treated pSCR::mIAA14-GR primary roots but that these LR primordia might be arrested during early stages of LR development. An additional notable observation was that the 2-week-older Dex-treated pSCR::mIAA14-GR seedlings frequently developed short aberrant LRs (Figure 7e,f,h–j). These LRs had a ball-like shape and appeared not to have a functional root apical meristem (Figure 7e,f,h–j), unlike the normal LR (Figure 7d,g). Starch staining showed that these disorganized LRs had almost no differentiated columella cells with amyloplasts (Figure 7h–j), whereas normal columella cells with amyloplasts were differentiated in pSCR:mIAA14-GR LRs not treated with Dex (Figure 7g). Furthermore, in the disorganized LRs, xylem vessels were differentiated toward the tip (Figure 7i,j), and root hairs were differentiated close to the root tip (Figure 7f,j), suggesting that meristematic cells (stem cells) were not maintained in these aberrant LRs. These results suggest that expression of mIAA14-GR in the SCR domain during LR primordium formation, after stage II, caused aberrant LR patterning. Although the possibility that mIAA14 expression in the endodermis of the primary root might somehow affect LR development in a non-tissue-autonomous manner has not been excluded, these results indicate that a normal auxin response mediated by Aux/IAA signaling in the LR primordium is necessary for the establishment of LR patterning. [[FIGURE]] Primary roots of 10-day-old Dex-untreated and -treated pSCR::mIAA14-GR seedlings (n = 12) were used for each measurement. The values for the mean ± standard error are indicated. NS, no statistically significant difference at P > 0.05 (t-test). *Statistically significant differences at P < 0.01 (t-test).
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis ecotypes used in this study were Columbia (Col) and C24. The slr-1 mutant was described previously (CITATION). The GAL4 enhancer trap line J0121 (http://www.plantsci.cam.ac.uk/Haseloff/geneControl/catalogues/Jlines/record/record_0.html) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Stock Center (Ohio State University, Ohio, USA). Peter Doerner (University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK) kindly supplied the pCycB1;1:: CycB1;1(NT)-GUS seeds. Seeds were surface-sterilized and plated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 1.0% sucrose solidified with 0.5% agar as described previously (CITATION). For Dex treatment, Dex was added to a final concentration of 1 μm in MS medium from a 30 mm stock in ethanol. When plant hormones were added, they were derived from 10 mm stocks in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO). Kanamycin was added to a final concentration of 25 μg ml−1 from a 50 mg ml−1 stock in water. Plates and transplanted seedlings were grown at 23°C under constant white light, as described previously (CITATION). Root growth and the number of LRs were measured under a dissecting microscope. The number of early LR primordia was counted using Nomarski differential interference contrast optics (Nikon, Tokyo, Japan). GUS activity was detected by incubating the seedlings containing transgenes at 37°C for 2 h in 50 mm sodium phosphate, pH 7, containing 1 mm potassium ferricyanide, 1 mm potassium ferrocyanide and 0.3 mg ml−1 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-glucuronide (X-Gluc). After incubation, samples were rinsed with 70% ethanol and observed under a Nomarski optics microscope (Nikon). GFP fluorescence in the roots was observed using fluorescent microscopy (Nikon). For observation of detailed root anatomy, root samples were counterstained with 10 μg ml−1 propidium iodide (Sigma Chemical Co., St Louis, MO, USA) and imaged using confocal microscopy (LSM510; Carl Zeiss Co., Ltd, Japan) with the rhodamine channel (red: propidium iodide). Starch staining was performed as described previously (CITATION). To generate the mIAA14-GR translational fusion, a modified GR fragment was inserted in-frame immediately before the stop codon of the mIAA14 coding region in the pGEM T Easy vector (CITATION). To do this, inverse PCR amplification of the mIAA14 coding region was performed by amplifying the entire pGEM-T Easy vector containing the mIAA14 coding region using two primers, 5′-TGAACAAAAAAAAAAGAGGACAATAT-3′ and 5′-TGATCTGTTCTTGAACTTCTCCATTG-3′. The 0.84-kb GR coding region with a short linker sequence (GlyGlyGly) at both ends was amplified from the 35S::GVG plasmid containing the GAL4-VP16-GR sequence (CITATION) (kindly provided by Takashi Aoyama, Kyoto University, Uji, Japan) using two end primers, 5′-gggggtggcCAGCAAGCCACTGCAGGAGTC-3′ and 5′-gggtccaccTTTTTGATGAAACAGAAGCTT-3′, and cloned into the SmaI site of pUC19 (Takara Bio Inc., Kusatsu, Japan). The 0.84-kb SmaI fragment containing the GR coding region and the whole T-Easy vector fragment containing the mIAA14 coding region at its 3′ end were ligated and the resultant 1.5-kb mIAA14-GR fusion was confirmed by nucleotide sequencing. The 1.5-kb mIAA14-GR fragment was inserted between the 2.0-kb IAA14 promoter and the nopaline synthase (nos) 3′ region by replacing the GUS coding region in the IAA14 promoter–GUS construct (CITATION). For the construction of the transgenes pSHR::mIAA14-GR and pSCR::mIAA14-GR, each promoter fragment (kindly provided by Philip N. Benfey, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA) was inserted upstream of the mIAA14-GR-nos 3′ by replacing the IAA14 promoter fragment of pIAA14::mIAA14-GR. For the construction of the transgenes pARF7::mIAA14-GR and pARF19::mIAA14-GR, each promoter fragment was amplified from the BAC clone containing the target gene (T1M15 for ARF7 and T29M8 for ARF19) using primer sets (5′-ggcgtcgacAGTACGTAGATTATTTTCCAC-3′ and 5′-ggcgtcgacGATCACTCAACTTTACTTTCTC-3′ for the ARF7 promoter, and 5′-ggcgtcgacAGAGAGTGTGTGTGGTTACGA-3′ and 5′-ggcgtcgacGGTTTATAGAAAGAACGAAAAAATTGG-3′ for the ARF19 promoter) and was cloned into the SalI site of the pBluescript SK+ vector. Each ARF promoter was inserted upstream of mIAA14-GR-nos 3′ by replacing the IAA14 promoter fragment of pIAA14::mIAA14-GR. These constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens MP90 and the strains containing each construct were used to transform wild-type Col plants using the floral dip method (CITATION). T1 seeds were selected on media containing 25 μg ml−1 kanamycin, and resistant seedlings were transferred to soil and allowed to set T2 seeds. T3 KanR homozygous lines were used in the Dex-inducible experiments. To generate a GFP-mIAA14-GR translational fusion, the 0.7-kb GFP coding region with a short linker sequence (GlyGlyGly) at both ends (CITATION) was inserted in-frame at the start codon of the mIAA14-GR coding region cloned in the pBluescript SK+ vector. To do this, inverse PCR amplification of the mIAA14-GR coding region was performed by amplifying the entire pBluescript vector containing the mIAA14-GR coding region using two primers, 5′-ATGAACCTTAAGGAGACGGAG-3′ and 5′-ATCTCTTCTTGCTGTCTATAT-3′. The 0.7-kb SmaI fragment containing the GFP coding region and the whole vector fragment containing the mIAA14-GR coding region at its 3′ end were ligated, and the sequence of the resultant 2.2-kb GFP-mIAA14-GR fusion was confirmed. The 2.2-kb GFP-mIAA14-GR fragment with XbaI sites at both ends was inserted between the 2.0-kb IAA14 promoter and the nopaline synthase 3′ region by replacing the GUS coding region in the IAA14 promoter–GUS construct (CITATION). This construct was introduced into A. tumefaciens MP90 and strains containing the construct were used to transform wild-type Col plants. T1 seeds were selected on media containing 25 μg ml−1 kanamycin, and resistant seedlings were transferred to soil and allowed to set seeds. T2 KanR seedlings were used in the Dex-inducible experiments. To generate the 5xUAS::mIAA14-GR construct, the 0.24-kb 5xUAS fragment was amplified from the 5xUAS-GFP vector, kindly provided by Jim Haseloff (University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK) using two end primers: 5′-gtcgacAAGCTTGCATGCCTGCAGGTC-3′ and 5′-gtcgacCTGCAGGTCGTCCTCTCCAAA-3′. The resultant 0.24-kb PCR fragment, which contained SalI sites at both ends, was cloned into T-vector (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) and the sequence was confirmed. The 0.24-kb 5xUAS fragment was inserted in the SalI site upstream of the mIAA14-GR-nos 3′ region in a binary vector based on pBI101. These constructs were introduced into A. tumefaciens MP90 and strains containing the construct were used to transform the J0121 (ecotype C24) line. T1 seedlings that were impaired in LR formation were selected on standard MS medium, transferred to soil and allowed to set T2 seeds. These T2 seeds were sown on Dex-containing media to confirm the linkage between the phenotype and presence of the transgene. The cDNA fragments encoding the C-terminus of ARF5 (amino acids 778–902), ARF7 (amino acids 1031–1164) and ARF19 (amino acids 952–1086) were amplified from a flower cDNA library using the following primer sets: 5′-gagaattcAATAGTAAAGGCTCATCATGGCAG-3′ and 5′-cagtcgacGTTACATTTATGAAACAGAAGTCTTAAGATCG-3′ for ARF5, 5′-agtcgacaAGCTCAGACTCAGCGAATGCG-3′ and 5′-cagtcgacTCACCGGTTAAACGAAGTGGC-3′ for ARF7, and 5′-gagaattcAATCAGACTCAACGAATGCG-3′ and 5′-cagtcgacCTATCTGTTGAAAGAAGCTGCAGC-3′ for ARF19. The full-length IAA14 open reading frame was amplified using two primers, 5′-cgaattcATGAACCTTAAGGAGACGGAGC-3′ and 5′-tgtcgacTCATGATCTGTTCTTGAACTTCTCC-3′. PCR products were subcloned into pCR-Blunt II TOPO (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) and sequenced before in-frame insertion into pAD-GAL4-2.1 or pBD-GAL4 Cam (Stratagene, CA, USA) via EcoRI/SalI (IAA14, ARF5 and ARF19) or SalI (ARF7) sites. Constructs were introduced into Saccharomyces cerevisiae Y190 cells, and transformants were subjected to assays for β-galactosidase activity as previously described (CITATION).
