!~ABS~! Pyridoxine (vitamin B6) is a cofactor required by numerous enzymes in all cellular organisms. Plants are the major source of vitamin B6 for animals, yet the biosynthesis pathway and the function of vitamin B6 in plants are not well elucidated. In this study, an Arabidopsis pyridoxine synthase gene PDX1 was characterized and its in vivo functions were investigated. The PDX1 gene was expressed in all plant parts examined and its expression level was not significantly regulated by abiotic stress or the phytohormone abscisic acid. In roots, PDX1 was highly expressed in a defined region behind the root tips that undergoes rapid cell division. The PDX1 protein was mainly associated with the plasma membrane and endomembranes, implying a potential involvement of vitamin B6 in membrane function. To reveal the in vivo role of PDX1, Arabidopsis insertional mutants were isolated. Strikingly, the pdx1 knockout mutants were impaired in root growth and early seedling development. The stunted roots resulted from both reduced cell division and elongation. Supplementation of the growth media with pyridoxine or reintroduction of the wild-type PDX1 gene into the mutants completely restored the mutant growth, demonstrating that PDX1 is required for pyridoxine biosynthesis in planta. In addition to the developmental defects, pdx1 mutants are hypersensitive to osmotic stress and oxidative stress. These mutant seedlings had increased peroxidation of membrane lipids following UV treatment. Our study establishes a critical role of vitamin B6 in plant development and stress tolerance and suggests that vitamin B6 may represent a new class of antioxidant in plants.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis PDX1 [previously named GAN-interacting protein a (GIP2); GenBank accession number AY972813; At5g01410] was initially isolated in a yeast two-hybrid screen as a protein that interacts with a scaffold protein involved in root adaptation to drought and salt stress (HC and LX, unpublished results). The predicted PDX1 was noted as a putative protein similar to stress-responsive proteins. To obtain the PDX1 cDNA, reverse transcriptase–polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was conducted using total RNA isolated from wild-type Arabidopsis. Comparison of the cDNA with the genomic DNA indicates that the open reading frame of PDX1 consists of one exon without any introns (Figure 1a). The predicted protein has 309 amino acid residues, with a molecular weight of 33.2 kDa. Database searching found that PDX1 shows high similarity to members of the SOR/SNZ family proteins found in fungi, archaebacteria, and some eubacteria (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) (Figure 1b). Homologous sequences also exist in other plant species including rice (Oriza sativa), rubber tree (Hevea brasiliensis), common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), and gingko (Ginkgo biloba). PDX1 is phylogenetically more closely related to these plant homologs than to its counterparts in other organisms (Figure 1c). In the Arabidopsis genome, there are two more PDX1-like proteins (PDX1;2, At2g38230 and PDX1;3, At3g16050) (Figure 1c), which share 89% and 61% amino acid sequence identity with PDX1, respectively. A third protein (PDX1;4, At2g38210) is also closely related to PDX1, but the predicted protein lacks the C-terminal extension and is shorter than PDX1 and the other two proteins. [[FIGURE]] The PDX1 protein shares 68% amino acid sequence similarity with the yeast protein SNZ1 (Figure 1b), a member of the SOR/SNZ family that was recently shown to be involved in pyridoxine synthesis (CITATION; CITATION). To test whether PDX1 functions in pyridoxine synthesis in plants, we first investigated whether PDX1 could complement the yeast pyridoxine auxotrophic mutant snz1. The PDX1 cDNA was cloned into the pESC-HIS vector (pESCPDX1) and transferred into snz1 cells. As a control, the pESC-HIS empty vector was also separately transferred into snz1 cells. On media lacking pyridoxine, the pESCPDX1 transformants grew nearly as well as the wild-type cells, whereas those transformed with the empty pESC-HIS vector were defective in their growth as compared with the wild-type cells (Figure 2a,b). The complementation of the snz1 mutant by the PDX1 gene indicates that Arabidopsis PDX1 is functionally exchangeable with yeast SNZ1. [[FIGURE]] To investigate where the PDX1 gene is expressed, total RNA from roots, stems, leaves, flowers, and siliques was extracted and subject to RNA blotting analysis using PDX1 cDNA as a probe. It was found that PDX1 transcripts were detected at similar levels in all plant parts examined (Figure 3a). As PDX1 was noted to be similar to stress-responsive proteins, we asked whether abiotic stresses could regulate the expression of PDX1. It was found that PDX1 transcript levels were not enhanced by either salt stress or the stress hormone abscisic acid (ABA). Rather, salt or ABA treatments slightly decreased the PDX1 transcript levels (Figure 3b). Consistent with our RNA blotting analysis, microarray experiments also showed that PDX1 gene expression was not significantly regulated by cold, salt, drought, or ABA treatment (http://www.arabidopsis.org), suggesting that the PDX1 gene may be constitutively expressed. [[FIGURE]] Transgenic plants expressing the PDX1 promoter-driven β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene were also obtained in order to examine the expression of PDX1 at the tissue level. In young seedlings, PDX1 promoter activity was detected in cotyledons, with especially strong signals in guard cells and vascular tissues (Figure 4a,b). In roots, the highest expression was observed in rapidly growing stele tissues near the root tips. However, the GUS signal was very faint or not detectable in root tips (Figure 4a,c). GUS expression was also observed in root hairs (Figure 4d) and vascular tissues of stems (Figure 4b). In floral organs, GUS expression was evident in mature pollen grains and filaments (Figure 4f), the tips of young siliques (Figure 4f), and the joint region of the silique and pedicel (Figure 4g). The most pronounced GUS staining was detected around the cutting sites (Figure 4e–g), suggesting that wounding may induce PDX1 expression. To explore the potential regulation of the PDX1 promoter by wounding-related signals, leaves of the PDX1::GUS transgenic plants were treated with jasmonic acid (JA), ethephon, or UV light. However, none of these treatments obviously induced reporter gene expression (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Although several SOR/SNZ family members have recently been characterized in non-plant organisms, no information was available about the subcellular localization of any PDX1-like proteins. Sequence analysis of the PDX1 protein failed to detect any clear signal peptides. To start revealing the subcellular sites of vitamin B6 biosynthesis and its regulation, we generated stable transgenic plants expressing the green fluorescent protein (GFP)-PDX1 fusion protein. As showed in Figure 4(h–m), surprisingly, PDX1 was found to be mainly associated with the membrane system, including the plasma membrane and all the endomembranes (e.g. the nuclear envelope and the chloroplast outer membranes). A fraction of the protein may be also localized in the cytoplasm. In root cells, the association of PDX1 with the plasma membrane is particularly clear (Figure 4k–m). To further demonstrate that the PDX1 protein is associated with the plasma membrane rather than the cell wall, GFP-PDX1 transgenic seedlings were incubated in 30% sucrose to induce plasmolysis. Figure 4(n–p) shows that, in plasmolysed root hairs, PDX1 protein was associated with the plasma membrane but not the cell wall. To confirm that GFP has no effect on PDX1 localization and function, the GFP-PDX1 gene was also transferred into the pdx1-1 knockout mutant (see below). Analysis of the phenotypes confirmed that GFP-PDX1 complemented the pdx1 mutant defects (see below), indicating that GFP does not interfere with PDX1 functions and that the GFP-PDX1 localization may reflect the natural localization of the PDX1 protein. To investigate the in vivo function of PDX1, two putative T-DNA insertional mutant lines were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Columbus, OH, USA). Using sequence-specific primers, PCR-based genotyping was conducted and mutants homologous to the T-DNA insertions were recovered (Figure 1a). These two mutant lines, pdx1-1 (SALK_086418) and pdx1-2 (SALK_129277), were backcrossed to the wild-type plants and were used in the following experiments. Because the two mutants have identical phenotypes, only the data obtained with pdx1-1 are reported here. It was found that the pdx1 mutants have striking phenotypes distinct from those of the wild-type plants. After germination, the growth of the mutant seedlings was slower and the seedlings were smaller than the wild type (Figure 5a,c). Most strikingly, the mutant plants had very short primary roots, and this phenotype became more severe when plants were grown on media with an increased amount of sucrose (Figure 5c and data not shown), which stimulates root growth rate (CITATION). The stunted root growth of pdx1 may result from a defect in either cell division or cell elongation or both. Examination of the roots revealed that pdx1 roots had shorter mature cortical cells (Figure 6c,d) and a smaller meristem (Figure 6a,b). To estimate the root meristem size, the number of cortical cells from the initial cell up to the first rapidly elongating cell was counted (CITATION). It was found that the number of cells in the pdx1 meristems was only about 50% that of the wild type (Figure 6a,b). These data indicate that the pdx1 mutant roots are impaired both in cell division and in cell elongation. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In addition to the stunted roots, the leaves of pdx1 seedlings were yellowish, both in Murashige and Skoog (MS) plates and in soil (Figures 4e and 5a,c and data not shown). Examination of pdx1 chloroplasts did not find a clear alteration in structure, and thus the altered coloration may result from altered pigmentation. Measurement of leaf chlorophyll a and b and carotenoid contents showed that their levels in the pdx1 mutants were significantly lower than in the wild type (Figure 5b). This may reflect distorted synthesis of these pigments, given that pyridoxine is a cofactor for many metabolic reactions. To test whether these phenotypes observed in pdx1 are the result of defects in the PDX1 gene and its product, we first supplemented the growth media with pyridoxine to see if it could complement the mutant phenotypes. While supplying the MS medium with pyridoxine did not have a clear effect on the growth of the wild-type seedlings, it completely restored pdx1 root and seedling growth as well as leaf coloration to levels indistinguishable from those of the wild-type plants (Figure 5c and data not shown). These data further confirm that PDX1 is essential for the biosynthesis of pyridoxine and that deficiency in pyridoxine is responsible for the growth and developmental defects of the pdx1 mutants. To ascertain that the PDX1 gene is the sole cause of the growth defects in pdx1 mutants, we also performed in planta transgenic complementation assays. Binary vectors with the wild-type PDX1 cDNA under the control of the Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter or the PDX1 cDNA fused with the GFP gene under the control of the 35S promoter were respectively transferred into pdx1-1 mutant plants via floral dipping. Around 30 individual transformants for each construct were assayed for their growth, developmental or salt stress phenotypes. It was found that both constructs were able to completely complement the mutant phenotypes (Figure 5e and data not shown). To determine whether PDX1 is required for stress tolerance in Arabidopsis, we first checked the sensitivity of pdx1 mutants to salt stress. To avoid the complications resulted from different root length or growth between pdx1 and wild-type seedlings, we germinated and grew both wild-type and pdx1 mutant seedlings on MS agar plates supplemented with 100 μm pyridoxine. Under these conditions, the wild-type and pdx1 mutants were very similar in shoot and root growth. Seven days after seed germination, the seedlings were transferred to regular (without pyridoxine supplement) MS plates with or without NaCl. It was found that pdx1 mutant seedlings were much more sensitive to salt stress in that they had slower root and shoot growth. Longer exposure to salt stress killed the pdx1 mutants, whereas wild-type seedlings survived the stress (Figure 7a and data not shown), suggesting that de novo and continuous biosynthesis of vitamin B6 is required for plant salt tolerance. [[FIGURE]] In addition to the above assay on agar plates, we also tested the sensitivity of pdx1 mutants to salt stress in the soil. For this purpose, 10-day-old wild-type and pdx1-1 seedlings grown on MS agar plates supplemented with 100 μm pyridoxine were transferred into the soil and were irrigated with different concentrations of NaCl. It was found that pdx1 seedlings were also more sensitive to salt stress than the wild-type plants under every tested concentration of salt (Figure 7b and data not shown). Salt stress may involve an ionic stress component and also an osmotic stress component. To determine whether pdx1 is hypersensitive to ionic stress or general osmotic stress, wild-type and pdx1 seedlings were assayed for their response to mannitol, a solute that generates mainly osmotic stress but not ionic stress. When transferred to an MS medium supplemented with 100 mm mannitol, pdx1 mutant seedlings died in about 30 days, whereas the wild-type seedlings were able to survive the stress (Figure 7c). Thus, pdx1 mutants were hypersensitive to general osmotic stress in addition to ionic stress. It is known that drought and salt stresses induce the accumulation of ROS such as superoxide, hydrogen peroxide, and hydroxyl radicals (CITATION). Given the fact that pyridoxine acts as a strong singlet oxygen scavenger in fungi (CITATION; CITATION) and pdx1 mutants are hypersensitive to salt and osmotic stresses (Figure 7), it is likely that pdx1 mutants may be more sensitive to oxidative stress. To test this possibility, Rose Bengal (RB) was used to treat wild-type and pdx1 seedlings. Rose Bengal is a photosensitizer that can generate singlet oxygen upon illumination and thus imposes strong oxidative stress (CITATION). Wild-type and pdx1 mutants were first grown in MS plates supplemented with pyridoxine. These seedlings were then transferred to MS media with 0, 6, or 12 μm RB but without pyridoxine supplement. Figure 8(a) shows that both the shoot growth and the root growth of pdx1 mutants were greatly inhibited by RB treatments. Prolonged exposure to RB eventually killed the mutant seedlings. The hypersensitivity of pdx1 mutants to RB indicates that pyridoxine is an essential quencher of ROS in plants. [[FIGURE]] Although pyridoxine has been suggested as an antioxidant in fungi, the underlying mechanisms are unknown. Reactive oxygen species can directly cause membrane lipid peroxidation. As PDX1 appears to be associated with membranes (Figure 4h–p), we asked whether PDX1 has any role in protecting membranes from lipid peroxidation. Malondialdehyde (MDA) is a byproduct of polyunsaturated fatty acid peroxidation and its level has long been used to estimate the extent of lipid peroxidation using the thiobarbituric acid-reactive-substance assay (CITATION). As UV treatments can cause lipid peroxidation in plants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we investigated whether PDX1 has any role in protecting membrane lipids from UV-induced lipid peroxidation. The MDA level in the pdx1 mutant was measured after UV treatment. Figure 8(b) shows that without UV treatment there was not much difference between the wild type and pdx1 in MDA level. However, after 20 min of UV treatment, pdx1 mutant generated a much higher level of MDA than the wild type, indicating that endogenous pyridoxine can protect cellular membranes from lipid peroxidation.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia-0 was used in all experiments. The pdx1 T-DNA lines SALK_129277 and SALK_086418 were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. Seeds were surface-sterilized with bleach plus 0.01% triton and planted onto half MS media supplemented with 3% sucrose and 0.6% agar (Sigma, St Louis, MO, USA). For rescue of pdx1 mutants, 100 μm pyridoxine was added into the medium. After 2 days of cold treatment, plates were incubated at 22°C under constant white light for seed germination and seedling growth. For root growth assays, plates with 1.2% agar were incubated vertically and seedlings were photographed using a digital camera. The primary root lengths of seedlings were measured using the National Institutes of Health (NIH) imaging software (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/nih-image/). Soil-grown plants were kept in a growth room at 22°C with a 16 h light period. PDX1 cDNA was amplified with primers CACCATGGAAGGAACCGGCGTTGT and CTCGGAGCGATTAGCGAAC. A 1.1-kb PDX1 promoter was amplified and the fragment was ligated into the pENTR-D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). After sequence confirmation, the cDNA and promoter fragment were cloned into the pMDC Gateway vector (CITATION) through LR clonase recombination (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). The GFP-PDX1 fusion construct, the 35S promoter-driven overexpression constructs, and the PDX1 promoter-driven GUS reporter construct were made with the respective Gateway vectors. Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 was transformed by electroporation with these constructs. Four-week-old Arabidopsis plants were then vacuum-infiltrated with the transformed A. tumefaciens strains (CITATION) and transformants were screened using respective antibiotics. For pigment measurements, fresh leaves were ground in absolute ethanol and, after centrifugation, the supernatant was measured for its absorbance at 663, 645, and 480 nm. Pigment contents were calculated according to CITATION. For all stress treatments, the wild-type and pdx1 seeds were first planted on MS agar plates supplemented with 100 μm pyridoxine. One-week-old seedlings were transferred to respective treatment plates (without pyridoxine supplement). For Rose Bengal treatment, seedlings were transferred to plates containing 0 (control), 6 or 12 μm Rose Bengal and pictures were taken 2 weeks after the transfer. For salt and mannitol treatment, seedlings were transferred from MS plate to MS medium containing 100 mm NaCl or 100 mm mannitol. All agar plates were incubated under constant light at 22°C for seedling growth. For the assay of salt tolerance in soil, 10-day-old wild-type and pdx1 seedlings grown on 100 μm pyridoxine-supplemented MS agar plates were transferred into the soil. Five days later, they were irrigated with 0 (control), 50, 100, or 150 mm NaCl. Ten days after starting the salt treatment, pictures of these seedlings were taken. Lipid peroxidation was estimated by measuring the MDA content after UV treatment. Soil-grown plants were treated in Stratalinker 1800 UV crosslinker (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) at 30 W/m2 for 10 or 20 min, and 24 h later leaves were collected for extraction. The method described by CITATION was followed for extraction, measurement, and calculation of MDA. Total RNA was extracted from various organs of the wild-type plants grown under a 16-h photoperiod using TRI Reagent according to the manufacturer's manual (Molecular Research Center, Inc., Cincinnati, OH, USA). For stress treatments, whole seedlings were treated with 100 μm ABA or 300 mm NaCl for 0.5 or 2 h, respectively, before extraction of total RNA. Ten micrograms of total RNA was loaded onto 1.5% formaldehyde agarose gels. RNA gel blots were autoradiographed to a phosphoimage screen, and the signals were quantified using imagequant 5.0 (Amersham, Piscataway, NJ, USA). A 700-bp β-tubulin probe was used as a loading control. Seedlings or tissues from transgenic plants were vacuumed in staining solution (25 mm sodium phosphate buffer at pH 7.0, 10 mm EDTA, 0.5 mm ferricyanide, 0.5 mm ferrocyanide, 0.1% Triton X-100, and 2 mm 5-bromo-4-choro-3-indolylb-d-glucuronide cyclohexylamine salt) for 10 min before staining at 37°C. After staining, the solution was replaced with 75% ethanol to remove chlorophyll. JA and ethephon treatments were performed by floating detached leaves in 0.1 mm JA or 1.5 mm ethephon for 4 h before GUS staining. UV treatment was conducted by treating the detached leaves in a Stratagene UV 1800 crosslinker at 30 W m−2 for 1 min. For observing GFP localization, whole seedlings were mounted in water or 30% sucrose under glass coverslips and the GFP signal was visualized using a confocal microscope (Eclipse E-800 C1; Nikon, Instrument Inc., Melville, NY, USA) equipped with a kryptonargon laser. Differential interference contrast (DIC) images of root tips and cortical cells were taken with a Nikon SMZ1500 microscope and a Qimaging Retiga cooled camera (Burnaby, BC, Canada). The PDX1 cDNA was amplified and ligated into the pESC-HIS vector. The yeast snz1 mutant (CITATION) was transformed following the protocol of Clontech (BD Biosciences, Palo Alto, CA, USA). Transformed yeast was cultured in synthetic dropout medium without pyridoxine (CITATION) for 36 h before spotting onto solid minimal medium or inoculation in a minimal medium to an optical density (OD600) of 0.1 for subculture.
