!~ABS~! Phytochrome A (phyA) is the primary photoreceptor mediating responses to far-red light. Among the phyA downstream signaling components, Far-red Elongated Hypocotyl 1 (FHY1) is a genetically defined positive regulator of photomorphogenesis in far-red light. Both physiological and genomic characterization of the fhy1 mutants indicated a close functional relationship of FHY1 with phyA. Here, we showed that FHY1 is most abundant in young seedlings grown in darkness and is quickly down-regulated during further seedling development and by light exposure. By using light-insensitive 35S promoter-driven functional β-glucuronidase-FHY1 and green fluorescent protein-FHY1 fusion proteins, we showed that this down-regulation of FHY1 protein abundance by light is largely at posttranscriptional level and most evident in the nuclei. The light-triggered FHY1 protein reduction is primarily mediated through the 26S proteasome-dependent protein degradation. Further, phyA is directly involved in mediating the light-triggered down-regulation of FHY1, and the dark accumulation of FHY1 requires functional pleiotropic Constitutive Photomorphogenic/De-Etiolated/Fusca proteins. Our data indicate that phyA, the 26S proteasome, and the Constitutive Photomorphogenic/De-Etiolated/Fusca proteins are all involved in the light regulation of FHY1 protein abundance during Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seedling development.
!~RES~! To examine the endogenous FHY1 protein, we raised rabbit polyclonal antibody (anti-FHY1) against a His-tagged recombinant FHY1 protein. Protein gel-blot analysis of total protein extracts from dark-grown seedlings revealed that anti-FHY1 antibody is able to detect a protein band migrating at the size of around 40 kD (Fig. 1A). This apparent size is larger than FHY1's predicted size of 23 kD. Nevertheless, the presence of this band in wild type and the phyA-1 mutant seedlings but not in the fhy1-1 mutant seedlings supports that it is indeed the endogenous Arabidopsis FHY1 protein. It is interesting to note that FHY1 protein has a lower abundance in the dark-grown phyA-1 mutant than in the wild type (Fig. 1A), implying a dependence of optimal FHY1 accumulation on functional phyA photoreceptor in darkness. [[FIGURE]] With our FHY1 antibodies, we examined FHY1 protein levels at different time points during Arabidopsis seedling development. The FHY1 protein abundance reaches its highest level in 3- to 4-d-old dark-grown seedlings and then decreases rapidly (Fig. 1B). In extracts from older tissues, the FHY1 protein is hardly detectable (data not shown). The high abundance of FHY1 during early seedling development is consistent temporally with an important role of FHY1 in seedling photomorphogenesis and the absence of fhy1 mutant phenotype in later developmental stages. Interestingly, as shown in Figure 1C, the FHY1 protein level is significantly reduced in light conditions. The FHY1 protein is most abundant in dark-grown seedlings, and its level drops about 10-fold in FR light. In B, R, and white light, FHY1 protein is hardly detectable. The reported FHY1 mRNA level decrease in light conditions (CITATION) coincides with these FHY1 protein level changes. To examine the contribution of transcription regulation of FHY1 toward observed FHY1 abundance regulation by light and the subcellular location of this regulation, we introduced cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter-driven full-length FHY1 cDNA fused with either green fluorescent protein (GFP) or β-glucuronidase (GUS) into the fhy1-1 mutant background. Homozygous progeny carrying a single-locus transgene from at least three independent lines were selected for further studies. The expression of the fusion proteins in the transgenic lines was confirmed by protein gel-blot analyses with FHY1 and GFP or GUS antibodies, with two representative lines each shown in Figure 2A. Evidently, both 35S:GFP-FHY1 and 35S:GUS-FHY1 transgenes can rescue the fhy1-1 mutant phenotype in FR condition (Fig. 2, B–E), suggesting that the two FHY1 fusion proteins are functional in vivo. Moreover, FR-grown 35S:GFP-FHY1 transgenic seedlings (in fhy1-1 mutant background) exhibited significantly shorter hypocotyls than wild type (Fig. 2, C and E), indicating that a possible higher level of GFP-FHY1 conferred by the strong 35S promoter enhanced the FR responses in these transgenic plants. Protein-blot analysis of the GFP-FHY1 transgenic lines shown above indicated a higher level of the fusion protein than that of the endogenous FHY1 (Fig. 2A). It is interesting to note that both GFP-FHY1 and GUS-FHY1 protein levels are much higher than endogenous FHY1 protein level (Fig. 2A). However, only 35S:GFP-FHY1 transgenic plants showed increased response to FR light (Fig. 2, B–E). Thus, the GUS fusion might interfere with the function of FHY1 so that the GUS-FHY1 protein is less active than the GFP-FHY1 protein. [[FIGURE]] The intracellular localization of FHY1 was investigated using at least three independent transgenic lines each for both GFP and GUS fusion proteins. The subcellular distribution of GUS-FHY1 and GFP-FHY1 fusion proteins in all lines examined exhibited essentially the same localization pattern. As shown in Figure 3, A and B, GUS staining or GFP fluorescence was detected intensely in the nucleus and also weakly in the cytoplasm. The nuclear signals were most strong in darkness and evidently reduced in all light conditions examined, especially in the case of GFP-FHY1 (Fig. 3, A, B, and D). These results are consistent with the previous reports (CITATION; CITATION). Although light exposure causes a decrease in the ratio of nuclear FHY1 versus cytoplasmic FHY1, this is likely due to a selective degradation of the nuclear FHY1 triggered by light, which will be further addressed in later sections. [[FIGURE]] The reported FHY1 mRNA level decrease in light conditions (CITATION) coincides with these FHY1 protein level changes. To further define the specific contribution of transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulation toward FHY1 abundance by light, GFP-FHY1 fusion protein driven by the light-insensitive 35S promoter (35S:GFP-FHY1) was analyzed. As shown in Figure 3C, GFP-FHY1 fusion protein driven by the light-insensitive 35S promoter (35S:GFP-FHY1) also exhibited similar light-regulated abundance changes in transgenic seedlings. Fluorescence microscopic examination revealed that the reduction of GFP-FHY1 level is most drastic in its nuclear abundance (Fig. 3D). On the other hand, due to unknown reasons, the stability of GUS-FHY1 protein is less sensitive to light than endogenous FHY1 or GFP-FHY1 (data not shown), which resulted in better-retained nuclear signals of GUS-FHY1 than GFP-FHY1 in light conditions (Fig. 3A). Together with previous studies, our results suggest that the FHY1 protein accumulation level is the result of coordinated transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulations, which is similar to the phyA protein (CITATION). To assess the role of phyA in the regulation of FHY1 protein level, we examined FHY1 protein levels during dark-to-light transitions. Wild-type and phyA-1 mutant seedlings were grown in complete darkness for 3 d and then treated with cFR light for 1, 3, 5, and 7 h (Fig. 4A), or continuous white, B, and R light for 30 min, and 1, 1.5, and 2 h (Fig. 4, B–D). In wild-type seedlings, endogenous FHY1 decreased rapidly after exposure to white, B, and R light. After just 1 h, most of the FHY1 protein had disappeared. When exposed to FR light, FHY1 protein level also showed a decrease, although less dramatic and slower than those in other light conditions. On the other hand, in phyA-1 mutant seedlings, this reduction of the FHY1 protein was slowed down significantly in all the light conditions tested. However, FHY1 was eventually degraded with extended time under all those light conditions. This result indicates that phyA plays a role in this light-mediated FHY1 protein reduction, but other photoreceptors are likely involved as well. [[FIGURE]] To examine the mechanism responsible for the decrease of the FHY1 protein upon light treatment, we first tested the effect of 26S proteasome-specific inhibitors, MG132, PSI, and ALLN, on FHY1 protein abundance changes during the transition of 3-d-old dark-grown seedlings to white light. As shown in Figure 5, each of these inhibitors was able to efficiently inhibit the decrease of the FHY1 protein. This result indicates that the FHY1 protein is likely degraded through the 26S proteasome pathway upon light exposure. [[FIGURE]] To further assess the involvement of 26S proteasome-mediated protein degradation toward FHY1 protein abundance regulation, we checked the GFP-FHY1 protein level changes and the effect of proteasome inhibitors in the similar dark-to-light transitions. As the expression of GFP-FHY1 fusion protein was driven by a light-insensitive 35S promoter, the contribution of possible transcriptional regulation by light toward the fusion protein should be minimal. As shown in Figure 6, the GFP-FHY1 fusion protein exhibited a similar degradation pattern to endogenous FHY1 during the dark-to-light transitions. Further, the degradation of GFP-FHY1 upon light exposure can be prevented by each of the three distinct 26S proteasome-specific inhibitors (Fig. 7, A–D). Fluorescence microscopic examination confirmed that MG132, but not dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), ethanol, or cycloheximide (CHX, an inhibitor of de novo protein biosynthesis), effectively blocked GFP-FHY1 degradation in the nucleus (Fig. 7E). These results further confirm that the light-triggered reduction of the FHY1 protein in planta is largely due to the 26S proteasome-mediated protein degradation. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We further examined the role of phyA as well as other phytochromes in mediating light regulation of FHY1 protein abundance. As shown in Figure 8A, phyA-1 and phyB/D/E triple mutants had lower FHY1 protein levels in their dark-grown seedlings compared to wild-type seedlings, which suggests that optimal FHY1 accumulation in darkness requires phyA and other phytochromes (see also Fig. 3A). However, the FR-light-grown phyA-1 mutants were more similar to their dark-grown seedlings and exhibited higher abundance of FHY1 than both wild type and phyB/D/E (Fig. 8A). This result not only supports the early observation that phyA negatively regulates FHY1 in light, but also indicates that phyA is the primary photoreceptor that mediates FR-light-dependent regulation of FHY1 protein abundance. Other phytochromes, such as phyB, phyD, and phyE, do not contribute significantly to the regulation of FHY1 abundance in FR light. [[FIGURE]] The COP/DET/FUS proteins play important roles in mediating the repression of photomorphogenic development in darkness (CITATION; CITATION). They accomplish this by targeting photomorphogenesis-promoting transcription factors (such as HY5) for degradation via the 26S proteasome (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To examine a possible involvement of those proteins in light regulation of FHY1 protein abundance, we analyzed FHY1 protein levels in different cop/det/fus mutants. Protein extracts from 3-d-old cop1-6, fus5-1, cop10-1, det1-1, cop10-4 mutants, and wild type seedlings grown in both white-light and dark conditions were prepared and blotted with FHY1 and phyA antibodies. Except cop10-4, which is a very weak allele of COP10 (CITATION), all the cop/det/fus mutants exhibited similarly reduced FHY1 protein levels in both light and dark conditions, while phyA protein levels were not significantly affected by the cop/det/fus mutations (Fig. 8B). This lack of effect on phyA protein level in the cop/det/fus mutants is similar to that of a previous study (CITATION). It suggests that the accumulation of FHY1 protein in darkness requires the presence of functional COP/DET/FUS proteins. This is consistent with the cop/det/fus mutant phenotype, which essentially mimics light-grown seedlings when grown in darkness (CITATION). By contrast, the cop10-4 mutant behaves like wild type in 3- to 4-d-old seedlings, and only displays very weak cop phenotype after about 8 d growth in darkness (CITATION). Thus, it is understandable why FHY1 protein level in the 3-d-old cop10-4 mutant seedlings is similar to wild type. Therefore, the COP/DET/FUS proteins are essential for the dark accumulation of FHY1 but not phyA protein in planta.
!~MM~! The wild type Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) used in this study were of the Landsberg erecta ecotype, unless otherwise indicated. The phyA-1 (CITATION), fhy1-1 (CITATION), phyB/D/E (CITATION), cop1-6 (CITATION), fus5-1 (CITATION), det1-1 (CITATION), cop10-1 (CITATION), and cop10-4 (CITATION) mutants have been described previously. To grow Arabidopsis seedlings, seeds were surface sterilized, plated on Murashige and Skoog (Gibco) medium containing 0.3% or 1% Suc, and incubated at 4°C for 3 to 5 d before being placed in a standard continuous-white-light growth chamber at 22°C. After 12 h of incubation, plates were transferred to corresponding light conditions or complete darkness for 3 to 5 d. The fluence rates of the light growth chambers (Percival Scientific) were 111.0 μmol m−2 s−1 for FR light, 150.6 μmol m−2 s−1 for white light, 172.6 μmol m−2 s−1 for R light, and 8.1 μmol m−2 s−1 for B light. To obtain adult plants, 7- to 9-d-old seedlings were transferred to soil and grown in a standard long-day (16 h light/8 h darkness) growth room. For the experiments testing 26S proteasome-specific inhibitors and protein synthesis inhibitors, MG132, ALLN, and PSI were dissolved in DMSO, and CHX was dissolved in ethanol, and Arabidopsis seedlings were vacuum-infiltrated with these inhibitors for 10 min before being transferred from darkness to white light. The incubation temperature is 22°C. The full-length cDNA of FHY1 were amplified by reverse transcription-PCR with forward primer (5′-CTGAATTCGGGATCCCTATGCCTGAAGTGGAAGTGGATAACAACAACGAGAAGCC-3′) and reverse primer (5′-GACTCGAGGTTACAGCATTAGCGTTGAG-3′), and cloned into the pCR2.1-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). This construct served as a PCR template for subsequent cloning of FHY1 into other vectors. A BamHI-SpeI fragment containing FHY1 cDNA was cloned into the BglII-XbaI site of the pRTL2-mGFP (S65T) and pRTL2-GUS/NIa vectors (CITATION). For generating 35S:GUS-FHY1 and 35S:GFP-FHY1 binary constructs, a HindIII fragment (containing the 35S promoter, transgene, and 3′ end terminator) was subcloned from the above-mentioned pRTL2 constructs into pPZP221 (CITATION). The 35S:GUS-FHY1 and 35S:GFP-FHY1 constructs were introduced into fhy1-1 mutant, via Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected with 200 μg/mL Gentamycin (Sigma), and more than 20 independent lines for each construct were generated. At least three independent T3 lines with single T-DNA locus were used for detailed molecular and biochemical analyses. Four-day-old 35S:GUS-FHY1 transgenic seedlings were selected and stained as previously described (CITATION). The staining time varied depending on the light condition that the seedlings were grown in. All stained seedlings were fixed for 30 min in 3.7% formaldehyde. After bleaching overnight with 70% ethanol, the seedlings were rehydrated with a graded ethanol series before being mounted on slides in 1 mg/L 4′,6-diamino-phenylindole (DAPI), and viewed under a microscope (Zeiss). For subcellular localization of GFP-FHY1 protein in the 35S:GFP-FHY1 transgenic Arabidopsis, 4-d-old whole seedlings were mounted on slides in 1 mg/L DAPI and viewed under a fluorescence microscope with GFP filter sets (Zeiss). Representative photographs were taken using a digital camera (Zeiss), and the figures were assembled using Adobe Photoshop software (Adobe Systems). Arabidopsis tissues were homogenized in extraction buffer A containing 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), 150 mm NaCl, 10 mm MgCl2, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1× complete protease inhibitor (Roche), or extraction buffer B containing 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), 200 mm NaCl, 1 mm EDTA, 10 mm NaF, 2 mm Na3VO4, 25 mm β-glycerolphosphate, 10% glycerol, 0.1% Tween 20, 1 mm dithiothreitol, 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1× complete protease inhibitor (Roche). The extracts were centrifuged twice at 4°C for 15 min each, and the protein concentration in the supernatant was determined by Bradford assay (Bio-Rad). Protein samples were boiled in sample buffer, run on SDS-PAGE gels, and blotted onto polyvinylidene difluoride membranes (Millipore). The protein-blot analysis with indicated primary and secondary antibodies is essentially following previously described protocol (CITATION). All protein-blot analyses were repeated at least three times to ensure the reproducibility of the results presented in this article. An EcoRI/NotI fragment containing the full-length FHY1 open reading frame was cloned into pET-28a (Novagen). This construct encodes a fusion protein with 6× His tags and FHY1. The fusion protein was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified with nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid beads (Qiagen). Polyclonal antibodies were raised by immunizing rabbits using purified fusion protein as antigen. The EcoRI/NotI fragment containing FHY1 was also cloned into pGEX-4T1 (Amersham Biosciences), generating a construct that encodes GST-FHY1 fusion protein. The GST-FHY1 fusion protein was expressed in E. coli and purified with Glutathione beads (Amersham Biosciences). Polyclonal FHY1 antibodies were then purified using HITRAP N-hydroxysuccinimide-activated column (Amersham Biosciences) coupled with GST-FHY1. Other primary antibodies used in this study include anti-RPT5 (CITATION), anti-phyA (CITATION), anti-GFP (Clontech), and anti-GUS (Sigma).
