!~ABS~! The HP1 family proteins are involved in several aspects of chromatin function and regulation in Drosophila, mammals and the fission yeast. Here we investigate the localization of LHP1, the unique Arabidopsis thaliana HP1 homolog known at present time, to approach its function. A functional LHP1–GFP fusion protein, able to restore the wild-type phenotype in the lhp1 mutant, was used to analyze the subnuclear distribution of LHP1 in both A. thaliana and Nicotiana tabacum. In A. thaliana interphase nuclei, LHP1 was predominantly located outside the heterochromatic chromocenters. No major aberrations were observed in heterochromatin content or chromocenter organization in lhp1 plants. These data indicate that LHP1 is mainly involved in euchromatin organization in A. thaliana. In tobacco BY-2 cells, the LHP1 distribution, although in foci, slightly differed suggesting that LHP1 localization is determined by the underlying genome organization of plant species. Truncated LHP1 proteins expressed in vivo allowed us to determine the function of the different segments in the localization. The in foci distribution is dependent on the presence of the two chromo domains, whereas the hinge region has some nucleolus-targeting properties. Furthermore, like the animal HP1β and HP1γ subtypes, LHP1 dissociates from chromosomes during mitosis. In transgenic plants expressing the LHP1–GFP fusion protein, two major localization patterns were observed according to cell types suggesting that localization evolves with age or differentiation states. Our results show conversed characteristics of the A. thaliana HP1 homolog with the mammal HP1γ isoform, besides specific plant properties.
!~RES~! Previous experiments in tobacco protoplasts have shown a nuclear localization of LHP1–GFP fusion protein with a specific foci distribution (Gaudin et al. CITATION). These preliminary observations were realized after transient expression in a heterologous system. To further investigate the subnuclear localization of LHP1 in planta, we stably introduced a LHP1–GFP fusion construct into A. thaliana wild-type and lhp1-1 mutant plants. Several independent transgenic lines (lhpLG) were obtained, of which six lines were further analyzed. Based on plant morphology and architecture, three phenotypic groups could be identified (Fig. 1). The transgenic plants in the first group (lhpLG1–3), had similar phenotype to lhp1-1 (early flowering and dwarf plants with a curled leaf phenotype) or an even more affected phenotype (lhpLG1, smaller plants than lhp1-1 with very curled leaves). The second group (lhpLG4) contained plants with an intermediary phenotype, while in the third one (lhpLG5-6), restoration of a normal rosette and leaf phenotypes was observed. Flowering time phenotypes of the transgenic plants were recorded (Table 1), and revealed partial restoration especially in SD. The lhp1 mutant phenotype being very pleiotropic, the degree of restoration slightly varied according to observed phenotypic traits. The level of expression of the LHP1–GFP transgene was recorded by semi-quantitative RT-PCR for each line and the data showed a good correlation between the phenotype and the level of transgene expression (data not shown). Plants with normal rosettes (lhpLG4-6) showed a high level of LHP1–GFP expression (one- to threefold the expression level of APT1, a constitutive gene), whereas a low level of expression was found in plants with the mutant phenotype (lhpLG1–3). The LHP1–GFP expression of the first and third groups differed by a factor 6–13. Therefore, we conclude that the LHP1–GFP fusion is functional in planta, being able to restore most of the pleiotropic traits of the lhp1 mutant such as leaf morphology and plant architecture. Wild-type plants were also transformed with the 35S::LHP1–GFP construct (WtLG plants) and did not show any peculiar phenotype (Fig. 1). [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] LHP1 localization studies were performed in both WtLG1 and lhpLG5 transgenic lines, both of which have a phenotype close to normal. Similar GFP fluorescence patterns were observed in the two lines (data not shown). A fluorescent nucleoplasm with small fluorescent foci was observed with exclusion from the nucleolus (Fig. 2). To determine the nature of the LHP1 foci, the GFP and DAPI fluorescent patterns were compared (Fig. 2). Line-scan analysis generally revealed no overlap of the LHP1–GFP signals with DAPI-bright chromocenters. These are known to be the nuclear domains of heterochromatin in A. thaliana (Fransz et al. CITATION, CITATION). Partial overlap between GFP-LHP1 and chromocenters was observed in less than 10% of the cases. These data suggest that LHP1 is mainly associated with the euchromatic fraction. [[FIGURE]]  To define whether LHP1 has impacts on chromatin organization, we examined the heterochromatin content in wild-type and lhp1 mutant nuclei. DAPI staining was performed on lhp1-1, lhp1-2 and wild-type nuclei isolated from different organs and the heterochromatin fraction was determined (Fransz et al. CITATION; Soppe et al. CITATION). To minimize the developmental differences between the wild-type plant and the lhp1 mutant, which flowers earlier than the wild type, we examined nuclei from sepals and petals isolated at the same developmental stage. The shape, size or number of chromocenters did not significantly differ between lhp1 and wild-type nuclei (Fig. 3) neither did the relative heterochromatic fractions (RHF; Fig. 3c). In rosette leaves, the RHF slightly varied in wild-type plants during the analyzed developmental window and to a lower extent in the mutants. This could suggest a minor role for LHP1 in heterochromatin formation during development or cell differentiation. To test a further role of LHP1 in the organization of heterochromatic chromocenters, FISH experiments were carried out using the centromeric 180-pb repeat, 5S rDNA pericentromeric and 45S rDNA probes. The corresponding genomic sequences were previously shown in chromocenters (Fransz et al. CITATION). No major differences in their organization could be observed between mutant and wild-type plants (Fig. 3d, g). [[FIGURE]]  To examine if the lhp1 mutation affects chromatin condensation, treatments with the Micrococcus aureus MNase were performed on wild-type and lhp1 mutant nuclei (Fig. 4). At a global level, chromatin of lhp1 nuclei was more rapidly digested than wild-type chromatin, suggesting a higher accessibility to nucleases and consequently, a lower compaction level. As heterochromatin represents only a reduced fraction of the A. thaliana genome (10–15%), these significant differences are likely to concern the euchromatic fraction of the genome. [[FIGURE]]  To test whether the genome organization has effects on the LHP–GFP localization and whether LHP1 function may diverge in different species, the fusion protein was introduced into N. tabacum, which has a genome 45 times larger than the A. thaliana genome. Several independent transgenic tobacco TBY-2 cell lines expressing the LHP1–GFP fusion protein were generated and analyzed. All transgenic lines presented the same localization pattern (data not shown). The LHP1–GFP fusion protein was visible in the nucleus as bright GFP–fluorescent foci dispersed in a fluorescent nucleoplasm, but excluded from the nucleolus (Fig. 5a–f). In TBY-2 nuclei, intense DAPI-stained regions have been distinguished, although these regions were less precisely defined and more diffused than the DAPI-stained chromocenters in A. thaliana. Combined GFP and DAPI fluorescence detection as well as line-scan analysis of the superimposed images revealed that most of the GFP-fluorescent foci overlapped with DAPI-stained domains (Fig. 5). [[FIGURE]]  To better understand the GFP–LHP1 distribution in tobacco, we investigated the nature of DAPI-stained regions in TBY-2 by FISH experiments and immunolabeling experiments using antibodies against two hallmarks of silent chromatin, the 5-methyl cytosine (5mC) and methylated histone H3 at lysine position 9 (H3K9m; Fig. 5g–l). By using a 45S ribosomal DNA repeat probe, specific of the NOR regions, we showed that DAPI-stained regions did not overlap with the NOR regions. The 5mC labeling was distributed in the whole nucleoplasm with exclusion of brightly stained foci. In metaphase chromosomes these 5mC-empty segments may correspond very well with AT-rich regions (Fig. 5m–o). The presence of large DAPI-positive AT-rich segments in tobacco and other plant species is known from several studies (Moscone et al. CITATION; Ali et al. CITATION; Liu et al. CITATION). However, such large AT-rich segments are not present in the A. thaliana genome. Consistent with this observation, the H3K9m distribution was also uniform throughout the nucleus with exclusion from the nucleolar regions. These results suggest that in tobacco, no particularly enriched regions in the H3K9m or 5mC can be distinguished. Chromatin associated with these two epigenetic marks is spread in the whole nucleus and no discrete heterochromatic regions, such as the A. thaliana chromocenters, can be distinguished. To examine the role of the structural subdomains of LHP1 in the nuclear localization of the protein, truncated LHP1 proteins, including various combinations of the CD, the CSD and the HR, were fused to GFP (Fig. 6). As the LHPCSD region lacks a nuclear localization signal (NLS), the functional bipartite NLS signal of the A. tumefaciens VirD2 protein was fused to the carboxy-terminal region of the LHPCSD–GFP protein (Fig. 6). Deletion constructs were introduced into the tobacco TBY-2 cell line. For each construct, the different transgenic lines gave similar patterns. Localization was also analyzed in Arabidopsis protoplasts in transient expression (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  All truncated LHP1 proteins fused to GFP were targeted to the nucleus indicating that at least three out of the five classical NLS are functional in LHP1 both in N. tabacum and A. thaliana (Fig. 7b–f). NLS3 and NLS4, which form a classical bipartite NLS, were present in all constructs (except LHPCSD) and may be the major NLS. When LHPN, LHPNH or LHPCSD were fused to GFP, a fluorescence distribution was observed throughout the nucleus with nucleolar exclusion and a variable number of foci (Fig. 7b–d). In N. tabacum removal of one of the CDs or CSD resulted in smaller and less numerous foci, whereas in A. thaliana foci disappeared (data not shown). These data may result from the properties of the CD in recognition of chromatin hallmarks and dimerisation property associated with the CSD (Gaudin et al. CITATION). Thus, the CD and CSD have appeared in plants as the main domains involved in foci formation. Both chromodomains were required in A. thaliana protoplasts, whereas in N. tabacum cells, some foci still can be observed with one of them. [[FIGURE]]  Interestingly, as shown in Fig. 7e–h, respectively, the LHP1C–GFP or LHPH–GFP fusions, which both contain the HR, were targeted to the nucleolus, whereas the entire LHP1 protein or the three other constructs were mainly excluded from that nuclear compartment (Fig. 7a–d) both in A. thaliana and in N. tabacum. The GFP fluorescence signal in the nucleolus seemed to be more intense with the LHPC construct compared to LHPH but the distribution more homogenous with LHPH. Sequence comparisons with functionally identified nucleolar localization signals (NoLS) (Schmidt et al. CITATION; Rowland and Yoo CITATION) suggested the presence of a putative NoLS in the LHP1 HR (314 KRRKSGSVKRFK Q 326), formed by two stretches enriched in lysine and arginine residues (underlined) and flanked by one glutamine (Fig. 8). Thus, either the truncated proteins may simply be stored in that compartment due to the deletion of functional domains or the two deletions may induce conformational changes such as the unmasking of a cryptic NoLS, which could relocate the protein to the nucleolus. [[FIGURE]]  The in planta localization of the LHP1–GFP fusion was analyzed in different tissues and at different developmental stages in A. thaliana. Two main patterns were observed according to cell types or tissues. The most common pattern, described above as “in foci” pattern, was observed in cells located in older parts of the root and in most of the differentiated cells of the aerial vegetative tissues such as hypocotyl, epidermis, guard cells, parenchyma (Fig. 9a, b). The second pattern was a uniform fluorescence distribution throughout the nucleus, but excluded from the nucleolus. This “uniform” pattern was observed in nuclei of young proliferating tissue such as the root apex, young hypocotyls, cotyledon cells from immature seeds and young apical meristematic cells (Fig. 9c–g). Nuclei in older root hairs (closer to the crown area) displayed more foci than those in younger root hairs (closer to the root apex), which tend to have a more uniform pattern (Fig. 9h–k). [[FIGURE]]  Due to the larger chromosome size of tobacco and the high mitotic index of TBY-2 cells, the chromosome association of LHP1–GFP was monitored during mitosis, in the transgenic LHP1–GFP tobacco cell line. To better visualize mitosis events, synchronizations of TBY-2 transgenic lines expressing the LHP1–GFP fusion were performed using a combination of aphidicolin and propizamide (Planchais et al. CITATION). During prophase, the foci distribution disappeared progressively, and GFP-fluorescence dropped being hardly visible at metaphase (Fig. 10a, b). Only a very weak fluorescent halo was detected around the metaphase plaque, in the ancient nuclear territory (the confocal detection threshold was highly increased to reveal this halo, whose signal is only slightly higher than the background level) (Fig. 10c). Progressively, a fluorescent signal reappeared concomitant with the segregation of the chromosomes and their decondensation (Fig. 10d–f). From late anaphase to telophase, fluorescent foci reappeared until the classical distribution was observed when nuclei have divided. Similar observations were made in mitotic cells located in A. thaliana root apex (Fig. 11). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! The lhp1-1 and lhp1-2 mutants were isolated from the Versailles T-DNA insertion collection of A. thaliana (Gaudin et al. CITATION). For flowering time analyses, plants were grown in growth chambers under short-day (SD; 8-h light/16-h dark, with alternate 20°C/16°C temperatures), or long-day (LD; 16-h light/8-h dark, at 20°C constant temperature) conditions. The N. tabacum L. cv. Bright Yellow 2 (tobacco BY-2 or TBY-2) cell line was obtained from C. Bergounioux (IBP, Orsay, France). The cell line was grown in the dark, at 24°C, under constant shaking and maintained by weekly subcultures (Nagata et al. CITATION). For synchronization, 4 ml of stationary phase cell culture was transferred to 40 ml fresh medium supplemented by 2 μg/ml aphidicolin (Sigma) (Planchais et al. CITATION). After 24 h at 24°C, aphidicolin was removed by centrifugation, the pelleted cells were washed and resuspended in fresh medium. The mitotic peak could be observed at 9–10 h after the aphidicolin release. To obtain a highly synchronized cell population starting at the M phase, the aphidicolin-treated cells were subsequently cultivated with 1.6 μg/ml propyzamide (Sigma) for at least 10 h before analysis. The second inhibitor was removed by centrifugation and two additional washes. Mitosis was visualized with DRAQ5TM (Biostatus). To prepare nuclei, 5 g of seedlings was ground in a prechilled mortar on ice, with 20 ml of cold nuclei isolation buffer [NIB: 10 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 0.7 M sorbitol, 5 mM MgCl2, 5 mM β-mercaptoethanol, 1 mM Pefabloc®SC (Pentapharm, Basel, Switzerland)]. After filtration through a nylon mesh, the filtrate was centrifuged (10 min, 200 g, 4°C). The nuclei were washed twice and resuspended in NIB. The quality and concentration of the nuclei were checked by staining an aliquot with 30 μg/ml Hoechst 33342 [1 vol in 1 vol of 4% paraformaldehyde in 1×PBS (137 mM, NaCl, 2.7 mM KCl, 4.3 mM Na2HPO4 2H2O, 1.4 mM KH2PO4, pH 7.3)] and by observations on an epifluorescence microscope. DNA concentration was estimated after phenol/chloroform DNA extraction, ethanol precipitation, resuspension in water and OD260 measurement. The nuclei were resuspended in NIB supplemented with 3 mM CaCl2 to obtain a 0.1 μg/μl equivalent DNA concentration. The samples were incubated at 30°C with the Micrococcus aureus endonuclease (MNase, Fermentas) (0.25 U/μl final concentration). At various time points, 80 μl aliquots were taken, the reaction was stopped by an addition of 329 μl of stop solution (150 mM NaCl, 1% SDS, 20 mM EDTA), and incubation 10 min at 37°C. After digestion, nuclei were lysed and incubated with proteinase K (0.5 mg/ml), 30 min at 55°C, then 140 μl of 5 M potassium acetate was added. After 15 min on ice, the tubes were centrifuged (15 min, 12,000 g, 4°C). The supernatants were extracted with phenol/chloroform/isoamyl alcohol (24:24:1) and DNA was precipitated. The DNA pellet was resuspended, treated with RNase A and the MNase digestion products were analyzed in 1.6% agarose gel. PCR fragments corresponding to LHP1 or truncated LHP1 (LHPΔ) coding sequences were amplified using the pFLcbx5 plasmid as template (Gaudin et al. CITATION). The following primers were used: LHP1 (aa 1–445), primers LHP01 (5′GAAGATCTTCCATGGCAATGAAAGGGGCAAGTGGT3′) and LHP02 (5′TCAGATCTACCCATGGAAGGCGTTCGATTGTACTT3′); LHPC (aa 162–445), primers LHP03 (5′GAAGATCTTCCATGGGAAAGCCTGGTAGGAAAC3′) and LHP02; LHPNH (aa 1–378), primers LHP01 and LHP04 (5′TCAGATCTACCCATGGACTCAATCTTGGTTTTCTG3′); LHPH (aa 162–378), primers LHP03 and LHP04; LHPCSD (aa 378–445), primers LHP05 (5′GAAGATCTTCCATGGAGGAGTTGGACATCACG3′) and LHP02; LHPN (aa 1–194), primers LHP01 and LHP06 (5′TCAGATCTACCCATGGACTCAGTAGCATCATGTGA3′). PCR fragments were digested with NcoI (underlined restriction site), and inserted at the NcoI restriction site of the pAVA121 vector harboring the S65T GFP protein driven by the 35S CaMV promoter (Gaudin et al. CITATION). LHP1 and truncated LHP1 proteins were fused to the N-terminal region of the GFP. The bipartite NLS of the VirD2 protein was fused to the C-terminal end of the LHPCSD–GFP fusion (Gaudin et al. CITATION). Sequencing was performed to verify the constructs. The 35S::LHPΔ–GFP constructs were introduced into the pCambia1300 binary vector (http://www.cambia.org/pCAMBIA_vectors.html), transferred into the GV3101 (pMP90) Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain. Arabidopsis transformations were performed as in Gaudin et al. (CITATION).  A. thaliana in planta transformations were performed and transgenic plants were selected as described by Gaudin et al. (CITATION). The establishment of stable TBY-2 transgenic cell lines was carried out as described by Trehin et al. (CITATION). Independent calli were obtained, transferred to liquid medium and maintained by weekly subcultures. The relative heterochromatin fraction (RHF) was established by determining the fluorescence of all chromocenters relative to the fluorescence intensity of the entire nucleus (Soppe et al. CITATION). Fluorescence in-situ hybridizations (FISH) experiments were carried out as described in Fransz et al. (CITATION). The following probes were used: pAL1, containing the centromeric 180 bp, the pericentromeric 5S rDNA (Fransz et al. CITATION) and 45S rDNA (Gerlach and Bedbrook CITATION). Cell walls were visualized after incubating in a propidium iodide (PI) solution (5 μg/ml). According to tissues and species, various DNA-specific fluorescent dyes were used: DAPI (4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole), Hoechst 33342 or DRAQ5TM. For coupled detections of DAPI and GFP, A. thaliana tissues were gently fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde in PBS for 2 min and incubated with a DAPI solution (10 μg/ml) for 30–50 min. Methylated DNA was detected using anti-5methyl-cytosine (Eurogentec) as described previously (Soppe et al. CITATION). To visualize DNA content of TBY-2 cells, cells were incubated in 80 μg/ml of Hoechst 33342 solution without fixation. PI and GFP fluorescence observations were performed on a LEICA TCS-NT laser scanning confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems, Heidelberg, Germany) as previously described (Gaudin et al. CITATION) and DAPI/GFP observations on a LEICA TCS-SP2 spectral confocal microscope equipped with AOTF for excitation, with a water-cooled argon-UV laser (351 and 364 nm, Spectra-Physics 2020–05), and with an air-cooled argon-visible laser (488 nm). Observations were realized with a BP340-380/LP425 filter for DAPI and with a BP460-500/BP512-542 for GFP. The public ImageJ software (NIH, USA) was used to analyze DAPI and GFP fluorescence intensity profiles. Representative images were chosen to illustrate the observations. Total RNAs were prepared from seedling using the TRIzol reagent (Life Technologies). 1–2 μg of DNase treated total RNAs were used to perform RT-PCR (Gaudin et al. CITATION) with oligonucleotides Mav11 (5′GAGGAGTTGGACATCACGAAG3′) and GFP4 (5′TGACTTCAGCACGTGTCTTG3′), specific for the LHP1–GFP fusion. 28–32 cycles were used. The number of cycles chosen was shown to be in the linear range of the reaction in a separated experiment using different amounts of cDNA template. Two biological and three technical repetitions were analyzed. The amplified PCR products were separated on an agarose gel and quantified using a GelDoc 1000 (BioRad) imaging system. The level of expression of the adenine phosphorybosyl transferase (APT1) was measured in each sample and used to normalize the results (Gaudin et al. CITATION).
