!~ABS~! Distinct sets of soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein attachment protein receptors (SNAREs) are distributed to specific intracellular compartments and catalyze membrane fusion events. Although the central role of these proteins in membrane fusion is established in nonplant systems, little is known about their role in the early secretory pathway of plant cells. Analysis of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genome reveals 54 genes encoding SNARE proteins, some of which are expected to be key regulators of membrane trafficking between the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the Golgi. To gain insights on the role of SNAREs of the early secretory pathway in plant cells, we have cloned the Arabidopsis v-SNAREs Sec22, Memb11, Bet11, and the t-SNARE Sed5, and analyzed their distribution in plant cells in vivo. By means of live cell imaging, we have determined that these SNAREs localize at the Golgi apparatus. In addition, Sec22 was also distributed at the ER. We have then focused on understanding the function of Sec22 and Memb11 in comparison to the other SNAREs. Overexpression of the v-SNAREs Sec22 and Memb11 but not of the other SNAREs induced collapse of Golgi membrane proteins into the ER, and the secretion of a soluble secretory marker was abrogated by all SNAREs. Our studies suggest that Sec22 and Memb11 are involved in anterograde protein trafficking at the ER-Golgi interface.
!~RES~! To establish the subcellular distribution of the SNAREs Sec22, Memb11, Sed5, and Bet11 in tobacco leaf epidermal cells, we generated fluorescent protein fusions of these proteins for confocal microscopy. It is known that these SNARE proteins have a very short C terminus in the lumen of the corresponding membrane and an N terminus in the cytoplasm that can have regulatory functions (CITATION). Being aware not to disturb the respective N terminus of the SNAREs, we produced cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) and yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) constructs with the fluorescent protein attached to the C terminus of the SNARE fusion proteins. For each SNARE, similar subcellular locations were obtained whether the fluorescent-attached protein was CFP or YFP. Therefore, we used both constructs according to the needs of the coexpressions in the following experiments. As shown with a fluorescent CFP fusion of Sec22 (Sec22-CFP), we found the fusion protein to label a polygonal and tubular network characteristic of ER (Fig. 1A), and punctate structures (Fig. 1A) that were mobile in the cytoplasm and resembled the plant Golgi apparatus (CITATION). However, we could not use Golgi fusion protein markers (the K/HDEL receptor ERD2 and the sialyltransferase ST) to identify the punctate structures because these markers were redistributed (entirely or partly) to the ER (see Figs. 2 and 4A, and the other “Results” sections). On another hand, it has been shown that in tobacco leaf epidermal cells, ER export sites (ERES) and Golgi bodies are in close vicinity (CITATION). Sar1 is a GTP-binding protein that is involved in the recruitment of COPII proteins and that labels the ERES (CITATION). To confirm that Sec22-CFP was located near the ER-Golgi interface, we coexpressed Sec22-CFP with a constitutive GTP-bound form of Sar1-YFP, and observed a colocalization of both constructs (Fig. 1D). Although this coexpression does not allow distinguishing between a Golgi and an ERES location, the colocalization of Sar1-YFP and Sec22-CFP demonstrates that Sec22-CFP is present in the vicinity of the ER-Golgi interface. In the following experiments, except in the case of a Golgi marker alone for which the Golgi location has been demonstrated earlier, we will use the term “punctate structures” to describe any labeling appearing as dots that could be either Golgi bodies and/or ERES. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The simultaneous distribution of Sec22 at the ER and possibly the Golgi apparatus suggested that this SNARE could be able to cycle between the two organelles. To investigate this feature further, we used brefeldin A (BFA) on tobacco leaf epidermal cells expressing a yellow fluorescent fusion of Sec22 (Sec22-YFP). BFA is known to cause Golgi proteins to redistribute into the ER in tobacco leaf epidermal cells (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), and in some tissues the formation of Golgi clusters can occur (CITATION; CITATION). When cells expressing Sec22-YFP were incubated with 50 μg/mL of BFA for 30 min, we observed a strong ER labeling and no fluorescence in punctate structures, indicating that all the pool of Golgi- and/or ERES-localized Sec22-YFP proteins was totally redistributed into the ER membranes upon treatment with BFA (Fig. 1B). To compare the redistribution of Sec22 into the ER with that of a Golgi reporter protein, we treated with BFA cells coexpressing Sec22-CFP with the Golgi marker ST-YFP (CITATION). A similar result was obtained for Sec22-CFP/ST-YFP-expressing cells (Fig. 1C) showing a colabeling of the ER membranes by both fusion proteins. Therefore, BFA results confirm that Sec22-CFP is close to the ER-Golgi interface. We also determined the subcellular localization of the other SNAREs in tobacco leaf epidermal cells. We found that these SNAREs labeled punctate structures (Fig. 1, E–G). In addition, Sed5-CFP and Bet11-CFP colocalized with ERD2-YFP and ST-YFP as Golgi markers (Figs. 3, A and B, and 4, D and E, respectively), which could indicate in this case that Sed5-CFP and Bet11-CFP were associated with the Golgi apparatus. On the contrary, the v-SNARE Memb11 had a similar effect as Sec22 on those markers (Figs. 2F and 4B), and coexpressions could not be used to confirm Golgi location of this SNARE. For this reason, we looked at the effect of BFA on the subcellular location of Memb11-YFP, and we observed a redistribution of the protein from mobile dots into the polygonal ER network as for Sec22-CFP and Sec22-YFP (data not shown). Therefore, these results suggest that Memb11 is also located near the ER-Golgi interface. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We next wanted to analyze the role of Sec22 and Memb11 in protein transport at the ER-Golgi interface. To do so, we aimed to investigate the effect of overexpression of these SNAREs on a Golgi marker. If these v-SNAREs are involved in ER-to-Golgi protein transport, their overexpression would affect the distribution of a Golgi marker. For this purpose, we used ERD2, the H/KDEL receptor (CITATION). At steady state, the receptor is known to be predominantly located at the Golgi, where it captures soluble proteins to move them back to the ER and then recycles to the Golgi (CITATION). Consistent with the role of this protein, a fluorescent fusion of ERD2 has been suggested to cycle between the Golgi and the ER membranes (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, this marker was used to analyze whether overexpression of Sec22 and Memb11 could alter the dynamic equilibrium of ERD2 distribution between the ER and Golgi. Consistent with previous findings, a yellow fluorescent fusion (ERD2-YFP) was found predominantly in the Golgi bodies and to a far lesser extent in the ER (Fig. 2A; CITATION; CITATION). However, when ERD2-YFP was coexpressed with Sec22-CFP, we systematically observed a shift in the distribution of ERD2-YFP to the ER (Fig. 2, B and C). Sec22-CFP either colocalized (Fig. 2B) or not (Fig. 2C) with ERD2-YFP in the ER but still labeled punctate structures that were not labeled by ERD2-YFP (Fig. 2, B and C). To control that the redistribution of ERD2 was not due to the nature of the fusion protein but to the SNARE, we first exchanged the CFP and the YFP between ERD2 and Sec22. The same results were obtained by coexpressing ERD2-CFP with Sec22-YFP (Fig. 2D), i.e. a redistribution of ERD2 into the ER (as shown by the labeling by ERD2-CFP of a polygonal ER network), and the labeling of punctuate structures only by Sec22-YFP. Then, to test if such an effect was attributable to the SNARE Sec22 and not to loss or gained function of the SNARE due to tagging, we expressed the untagged SNARE with ERD2-YFP. Coexpressing an untagged version of Sec22 gave a similar redistribution of ERD2-YFP into the ER (Fig. 2E), clearly demonstrating that the effect was due to the expression of the SNARE protein. These data reveal that Sec22 has a profound effect on the dynamic distribution of a Golgi protein that cycles continuously between the ER and the Golgi apparatus. Therefore, it is likely that Sec22 is involved in any process related to the transport of proteins in the early secretory pathway. Similarly, when we coexpressed Memb11-YFP with ERD2-CFP, we observed a stronger labeling of the ER network due to ERD2-CFP and Memb11-YFP still labeled punctate structures (Fig. 2F). In addition, we also tested an untagged version of Memb11 on the distribution of ERD2-YFP (Fig. 2G) and found very similar results as those obtained for the untagged Sec22, i.e. an ER redistribution (Fig. 2E). As a consequence, these data also suggest that Memb11, as Sec22, is engaged in some processes related to membrane dynamics and protein transport at the ER-Golgi interface. To determine the specificity of the effect on the redistribution of ERD2 by the v-SNAREs Sec22 and Memb11, we analyzed the role of another v-SNARE and a t-SNARE from distinct families (i.e. the Qc-SNARE Bet11 and the Qa-SNARE Sed5, respectively). The Qc-SNARE Bet11 has been shown to have a different location than Sec22 and Memb11, i.e. a trans-Golgi location in protoplasts from Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells (CITATION), and could represent a control for the v-SNAREs Sec22 and Memb11 of the ER-Golgi interface. In addition, it has been shown in yeast that Sed5 is a Golgi syntaxin involved in ER-to-Golgi transport (CITATION). Coexpression of Sed5-CFP with ERD2-YFP showed a colocation of the two proteins in punctuate structures that could correspond to Golgi bodies, and no equivalent redistribution of the marker proteins into the ER was observed (Fig. 3A), as found with the fusion proteins of Sec22 and Memb11. Figure 3D shows the expected punctate labeling by ERD2-YFP of Golgi bodies. Coexpression of Bet11-CFP with ERD2-YFP (Fig. 3B) gave similar results with a colabeling of punctate structures that could correspond to Golgi bodies, and a very weak labeling of the ER membrane network. Controls were also made with untagged SNAREs. When ERD2-YFP was coexpressed with untagged versions of Sed5 (Fig. 3C) or Bet11 (Fig. 3E), no redistribution of the Golgi reporter protein was observed in any cells. These data indicate that the effect of Sec22 and Memb11 on the redistribution of a Golgi marker into the ER is not a general feature of SNAREs, but it appears to be more specific to the v-SNAREs Sec22 and Memb11 being located at or near the ER-Golgi interface. The results obtained with the Golgi marker ERD2 led us to check another Golgi reporter protein (ST). Expression of a fusion ST-YFP protein confirmed a punctate labeling likely to correspond to Golgi bodies as expected (Fig. 4C; CITATION; CITATION). Coexpression of Sec22-CFP with ST-YFP led to a shift in the location of ST-YFP to the ER (Fig. 4A). However, we did not observe the same efficiency in the redistribution of ST-YFP to the ER that we observed with ERD2-YFP. Effectively, a higher punctate labeling was observed with ST-YFP (Fig. 4A) than when ERD2-YFP was used (see Fig. 2), and also as compared to a BFA treatment (see Fig. 1C). In the latter case, it was expected that BFA redistributed the majority of the proteins to the ER. The coexpression of ST-YFP with Memb11-CFP also increased the labeling of the ER by ST-YFP (Fig. 4B), and as for Sec22-CFP, a higher punctate labeling was observed (Fig. 4B). On the contrary, no redistribution at all of ST-YFP was observed when either Sed5-CFP or Bet11-CFP was used in coexpression studies (Fig. 4, D and E). Although the redistribution of ST-YFP to the ER by expressing Sec22-CFP and Memb11-CFP was less efficient than on ERD2-YFP, we confirmed with ST-YFP that there is a particular effect of the v-SNARES Sec22 and Memb11 on Golgi proteins in the ER-Golgi pathway. The redistribution of Golgi membrane proteins to the ER induced by expression of Sec22 and Memb11 prompted us to check the effects of these proteins on the secretion of a soluble cargo, an ER targeted YFP (secYFP). In accordance with previous findings (CITATION; CITATION), secYFP was found at the cell surface of tobacco leaf epidermal cells, indicating that the protein is transported through the ER and released into the apoplast (Fig. 5, A and B). Z-confocal scanning of cells did not reveal any significant labeling of the intracellular organelles. Coexpression of Sec22-CFP with secYFP resulted in most of the secretory protein being retained into the ER and in small punctate structures where Sec22 is also labeled (Fig. 5, C and D). We also found that in cells coexpressing the two proteins Memb11-CFP and secYFP, the secretion of secYFP was strongly affected as the YFP fluorescence was both retained into the ER and in small punctate structures (Fig. 5, E and F). For both Sec22- and Memb11-expressing cells, Z-confocal scanning of cells did not reveal any significant labeling of the apoplast. [[FIGURE]] To verify whether the effect on secretion of secYFP was restricted to Sec22 and Memb11, we coexpressed secYFP with Sed5-CFP and Bet11-CFP. The coexpression of Sed5 resulted again in the presence of secYFP in both punctate structures and the ER (Fig. 5G). Coexpression of Bet11-CFP with secYFP showed either no significant block (data not shown) or retention into punctate structures and the ER (Fig. 5H). Our data indicated that all the SNAREs can have an effect on the transport of secYFP, and Sec22 and Memb11 had a marked effect on the transport of secYFP since Z-confocal scanning of cells did not reveal any labeling of the apoplast. Taken together, our results show that the v-SNAREs Sec22 and Memb11 have a critical effect on the distribution of Golgi reporter proteins and on the secretion of a soluble marker, suggesting a role in the early secretory pathway. Instead, the other v-SNARE Bet11 does not affect the distribution of the Golgi markers but can have an effect on secYFP transport. Finally, Sed5 had also a less effect on Golgi reporter proteins but led to retention of secYFP in early membranes of the secretory pathway.
!~MM~! Standard molecular techniques were used as described by CITATION. Total RNAs were extracted from young Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) leaves and were purified with a Promega kit SV Total RNA Isolation system. Total RNAs were submitted to reverse transcriptase (Moloney murine leukemia virus-reverse transcriptase; Stratagene) and PCR (Sed5-5′: 5′-atgggctcgacgttcagag; AtSed5-3′: 5′-ttaagccacaaagaagaggaaaac; AtSec22-5′: 5′-atggtgaaaatgacattgatag; AtSec22-3′: 5′-ttaccatagcttgttcttgac; AtMemb11-5′: 5′-atggcgtctggtatcgtc; AtMemb11-3′: 5′-ttagcgtgtccatcttatgaac; AtBet11-5′: 5′-atgaatcctagaagggagcc; and AtBet11-3′: 5′-ttaccgagtaagatagtatatgac). cDNAs were controlled by systematic sequencing. We used the binary vector pVKH18-En6 for expressions in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaf epidermal cells (CITATION). SNAREs sequences were amplified by PCR (AtSed5ox-5′: 5′-gctctagaccatgggctcgacgttcag; AtSed5ox-3′: 5′-acgcgtcgacatggcagccacaaagaagagg; AtSec22-5′: 5′-gctctagaccatggtgaaaatgacattg; AtSec22-3′: 5′-acgcgtcgacatggcccatagcttgttcttg; AtMemb11-5′: 5′-gctctagaccatggcgtctggtatcgtc; AtMemb11-3′: 5′-acgcgtcgacatggcgcgtgtccatcttatg; AtBet11-5′: 5′-gctctagaccatgaatcctagaagggag; and AtBet11-3′: 5′-acgcgtcgacatggcccgagtaagatagtattg) and fused to the 5′ end of YFP or CFP in place of ERD2 in pVKH-ERD2-YFP or pVKH-ERD2-CFP using SalI and XbaI restriction sites, in pVKHEn6ERD2 plasmid. For untagged SNARE proteins, we amplified SNARE cDNAs by PCR with specific primers and we inserted the DNA coding sequence of these proteins within the unique XbaI and SacI sites of the vector. The constructs for ERD2-YFP and ST-YFP fusion proteins were as described earlier (CITATION). Four-week-old tobacco (N. tabacum cv Petit Havana) greenhouse plants grown at 22°C to 24°C were used for Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101)-mediated transient expression (CITATION). PVKH18En6YFP- or pVKH18En6CFP-transformed A. tumefaciens were cultured at 28°C, until the stationary phase (approximately 24 h), washed, and resuspended in infiltration medium (MES 50 mm pH 5.6, Glc 0.5% [w/v], Na3Po4 2 mm, acetosyringone [Aldrich] 100 μm from 200 mm stock in dimethyl sulfoxide). The bacterial suspension was inoculated using a 1-mL syringe without a needle by gentle pressure through the stomata on the lower epidermal surface (CITATION). Transformed plants were then incubated under normal growth conditions for 2 d at 22°C to 24°C. Segments (roughly 5 mm2) of transformed leaves were used for drug treatment, confocal imaging, and analysis. BFA (stock solution: 5 mg/mL in dimethyl sulfoxide; Sigma-Aldrich) was used at a concentration of 10 μg/mL and 50 μg/mL as described by CITATION. Stock solution was kept at −20°C, and working solutions were prepared fresh just before use. Transformed leaves were analyzed 48 h after infection of the lower epidermis. Confocal imaging was performed using either an inverted Zeiss 510 laser scanning microscope or a Leica TCS SP2 confocal microscope with a 63× oil immersion objective. For imaging expression of GFP constructs, excitation lines of an argon ion laser of 488 nm were used with a 505/530-nm bandpass filter in the single-track facility of the microscopes. For imaging CFP and YFP constructs, excitation lines of an argon ion laser of 458 nm for CFP and 514 nm for YFP were used alternately with line switching using the multi-track facilities of the microscopes. Imaging settings were as described by CITATION, and appropriate controls were done to exclude any cross talk and bleed through of fluorescence. Time-lapse scanning was performed with Zeiss LSM 510 or Leica TCS SP2 imaging system software. Postacquisition image processing was with the LSM 5 image browser (Zeiss), the Leica software, and Adobe Photoshop 5.0 software. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers At1g11890 (Sec22), At2g36900 (Memb11), At5g05760 (Sed5), and At3g58170 (Bet11).
