!~ABS~! Plant shoots are characterized by indeterminate growth resulting from the action of a population of stem cells in the shoot apical meristem (SAM). Indeterminacy within the SAM is specified in part by the class I knox homeobox genes. The myb domain proteins rough sheath2 (RS2) and ASYMMETRIC LEAVES1 (AS1) from maize (Zea mays) and Arabidopsis thaliana, respectively, are required to establish determinacy during leaf development. These proteins are part of a cellular memory system that in response to a stem cell–derived signal keeps knox genes in an off state during organogenesis. Here, we show that RS2/AS1 can form conserved protein complexes through interaction with the DNA binding factor ASYMMETRIC LEAVES2, a predicted RNA binding protein (RIK, for RS2-Interacting KH protein), and a homologue of the chromatin-remodeling protein HIRA. Partial loss of HIRA function in Arabidopsis results in developmental defects comparable to those of as1 and causes reactivation of knox genes in developing leaves, demonstrating a direct role for HIRA in knox gene repression and the establishment of determinacy during leaf formation. Our data suggest that RS2/AS1 and HIRA mediate the epigenetic silencing of knox genes, possibly by modulating chromatin structure. Components of this process are conserved in animals, suggesting the possibility that a similar epigenetic mechanism maintains determinacy during both plant and animal development.
!~RES~! To understand the mechanism by which rs2 maintains knox gene silencing, a yeast two-hybrid screen was performed to identify proteins that interact with RS2. A two-hybrid cDNA expression library was constructed from mRNA prepared from maize shoot apices including four to five leaf primordia that normally express rs2. A total of 3 × 106 independent clones were screened for their ability to interact with the non-myb domain region of RS2, which is highly conserved between RS2, AS1, and PHAN but does not display similarity to any other known proteins (Figure 1A). This region of RS2 includes the so-called C-terminal domain that can mediate homodimerization of RS2 (CITATION). Accordingly, RS2 was one of the proteins identified in the screen (Table 1). In addition, a close homologue of the Arabidopsis protein AS2 was identified. AS2 is a member of the LBD family, which is characterized by the presence of a highly conserved N-terminal LOB domain that includes a Zn finger and leucine zipper–like motif and may mediate protein–protein and/or protein–DNA interactions (CITATION; CITATION). Phylogenetic analysis revealed that this maize homologue is more closely related to AS2 than any other Arabidopsis LBD family member (Figure 1C). The Arabidopsis AS2 protein has been shown to interact with AS1 both in yeast and in vitro (CITATION) and is required to maintain the repression of knox genes in developing lateral organs (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The fact that rs2 and as2 were detected in the two-hybrid screen verified that the library and screening conditions allowed the identification of biologically relevant interacting proteins. Other proteins identified in this screen include a DNA binding protein and two proteins with predicted roles in chromatin regulation (Table 1). [[FIGURE]] Summary of Maize Proteins That Interact with RS2 The two-hybrid screen identified a class IId WRKY DNA binding factor (CITATION). This WRKY protein (referred to as WRKY1) is most closely related to a WRKY protein from orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata) that is involved in the development of somatic embryos from leaf tissue (Figure 1D) (CITATION). A direct connection between knox expression and somatic embryogenesis has not been demonstrated in orchardgrass, but knox misexpression in leaves of other species can lead to the formation of somatic shoots (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The two-hybrid screen also identified a K-homology (KH) RNA binding protein we named RIK that contains a second motif that is found near the C terminus of several RNA helicases from a variety of species; however, this motif has no described function (Figure 1B). The possible inclusion of RIK in a RS2 complex suggests that silencing at the knox loci may involve an RNA component. Interestingly, RS2 was found to interact with HIRA (Table 1), a large (∼1000 amino acids) WD-repeat protein with close homologues in yeast and animals. HIRA proteins can direct changes in local chromatin organization and have a known role in heterochromatic and euchromatic gene silencing (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The identification of HIRA as a protein that interacts with RS2 supports the idea that RS2-mediated silencing at the knox loci is an epigenetic phenomenon. The RS2 protein interactions were confirmed biochemically and independent of the yeast two-hybrid system by glutathione S-transferase (GST) pull-down assays. A fusion protein between GST and the non-myb domain of RS2 (GST-RS2) was used to coprecipitate in vitro transcribed and translated radiolabeled proteins synthesized from each gene identified in the two-hybrid screen. To determine the specificity of the RS2-GST protein in this in vitro assay, we tested for binding of protein phosphatase regulatory subunit A. This protein was originally identified in the two-hybrid screen, but its interaction with RS2 could not be verified in subsequent more stringent analyses or in the GST-RS2 pull-down assay (Figure 2). RS2 has been shown previously to form dimers, and the Arabidopsis AS1 and AS2 proteins can interact in vitro (CITATION; CITATION). Accordingly, both RS2 and AS2 were specifically precipitated with GST-RS2 (Figure 2). Also WRKY1, RIK, and HIRA could be precipitated by GST-RS2 but not by GST alone. In the case of HIRA, the C-terminal region was sufficient for interaction with RS2. This region does not include the WD repeats, indicating that this protein–protein interaction domain is not necessary for RS2 binding. [[FIGURE]] Proteins that act together with RS2 to maintain a silenced state at the knox loci should be expressed in developing leaf primordia. Expression of rs2 and the genes encoding the RS2-interacting proteins was analyzed at various stages of seedling leaf development by semiquantitative RT-PCR. rs2 is expressed most abundantly in young leaf primordia, but expression persists in the sheath and blade tissues of fully expanded seedling leaves (Figure 3A). The expression profile of maize as2 resembles that of rs2, although as2 transcripts are less abundant, consistent with the fact that as2 was recovered relatively infrequently in the two-hybrid screen (Table 1). The maize as2 expression pattern is also comparable to that of AS2 in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION). As was observed for rs2, transcript levels for wrky1, rik, and hira are more abundant in apices and young leaf primordia than in fully expanded leaf tissues. The overlapping expression patterns are consistent with the possibility that the proteins identified in the two-hybrid screen function together with RS2 in knox gene silencing. [[FIGURE]] Expression of the genes encoding the RS2-interacting proteins is maintained in rs2 null mutants, although differences in transcript abundance relative to the wild type were observed (Figure 3A). Expression of wrky1, rik, and hira appears to be slightly increased in sheath tissue of rs2 mutants, whereas as2 and rik are less abundantly expressed in rs2 apices compared with the wild type. Whether these changes in expression are significant with respect to the phenotype conferred by the rs2 mutant remains to be determined, but it should be noted that the phenotype conferred by rs2 results predominantly from misexpression of knox genes in developing sheath tissue. These results also indicate that RS2 is not essential for the expression of its interacting proteins. Proteins involved in the regulation of gene expression should localize to the nucleus. RS2 and AS2 are known to function in the nucleus, whereas WRKY1 contains a well-characterized DNA binding domain and, therefore, is predicted to function in the nucleus as well (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine the subcellular localization of RIK and HIRA, C-terminal fusions of cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) to RIK and green fluorescent protein (GFP) to HIRA were transiently expressed in onion (Allium cepa) cells. Expression of CFP alone resulted in fluorescence in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm, as described previously (CITATION). By contrast, fluorescence resulting from the RIK-CFP (Figure 3B) and HIRA-GFP (Figure 3D) fusion proteins was limited to the nuclei of expressing cells. Interestingly, transient expression of a HIRA-GFP in nondividing onion cells revealed that the maize HIRA homologue exhibits subnuclear localization (Figure 3D). Mammalian HIRA exhibits a variable subnuclear localization that is cell cycle and phosphorylation dependent (CITATION). Phosphorylated HIRA in mitotically active cells is distributed diffusely throughout the nucleus, whereas in nondividing cells, HIRA is dephosphorylated and present in a punctate subnuclear pattern. In addition, HIRA promotes the formation of senescence-associated heterochromatin foci that are thought to repress proliferation-promoting genes (CITATION). Attempts to monitor the nuclear expression pattern of HIRA in dividing cells have been unsuccessful to date, probably because of the extreme sensitivity of plant cells to altered HIRA levels (see below). However, the transient expression data suggest that HIRA in plants may similarly recruit target genes into specialized transcriptionally silent heterochromatic foci. The Arabidopsis AS1 gene encodes the functional orthologue of RS2. Recessive mutations in as1 also cause the ectopic expression of knox genes in developing leaf primordia (CITATION; CITATION). However, in contrast with the variegated patterns of knox reactivation observed in rs2 null mutants, a BP:β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter construct shows uniform misexpression at the base of each as1 leaf (CITATION). To ascertain whether AS1- and RS2-mediated knox gene silencing involves similar protein complexes and mechanisms, Arabidopsis homologues of the RS2-interacting proteins were cloned and tested for their ability to interact with the non-myb domain of AS1 (Table 2). Consistent with earlier reports (CITATION; CITATION), AS1 could interact with itself and with AS2 in the yeast two-hybrid system. Phylogenetic and BLAST analyses identified three Arabidopsis WRKY proteins, WRKY21, -39, and -74, that are closely related to maize WRKY1 (Figure 1D). All three Arabidopsis homologues are expressed in vegetative tissues, but none interacted with AS1. Similarly, AS1 did not interact with maize WRKY1, whereas RS2 did interact with WRKY74 from Arabidopsis. This indicates that the function of these WRKY proteins is not conserved between maize and Arabidopsis. Summary of Arabidopsis Homologues of RS2-Interacting Proteins to Bind AS1 In Arabidopsis, RIK and HIRA each is encoded from a single gene. RT-PCR analysis showed that both genes are expressed in vegetative tissues. The interaction between RIK and AS1 was demonstrated in yeast (Table 2). However, expression of the Arabidopsis HIRA protein is lethal to yeast. Therefore, this interaction was tested in vitro by GST pull-down experiments. In maize, the C-terminal half of HIRA is sufficient for RS2 binding. An analogous region of Arabidopsis HIRA was transcribed and translated in vitro. This protein fragment can be precipitated by the GST-AS1 fusion protein but not by GST alone (Figure 2). RS2 and AS1 thus have the potential to form conserved protein complexes, suggesting that knox silencing and the establishment of determinacy in lateral organs may involve a similar epigenetic mechanism in maize and Arabidopsis. The variegated pattern of knox gene reactivation in rs2 null mutants indicates that a subset of cells have lost the maintenance mechanism that stably propagates the repression of knox genes. The identification of HIRA as a component of the RS2 and AS1 complexes suggests a mechanism for the RS2/AS1-mediated epigenetic silencing of the knox loci and the maintenance of determinacy during organogenesis. HIRA is known not only to modulate chromatin structure during heterochromatic gene silencing but also to control the spatial and temporal expression of specific euchromatic genes (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we determined a more detailed expression pattern for HIRA in Arabidopsis and determined its potential role in knox gene silencing and the specification of determinacy in developing lateral organs. The expression pattern of HIRA during vegetative development in Arabidopsis was determined by in situ hybridization. HIRA is expressed strongly throughout the meristem and young leaf primordia (Figures 4A and 4B). In older leaves, its expression is reduced and becomes confined to the vascular bundles. HIRA transcripts were also detected in the vasculature of hypocotyls. This expression pattern is consistent with the HIRA expression profile observed in maize and suggests that HIRA may be expressed predominantly in tissues containing actively dividing cells. AS1 functions in developing leaf primordia; thus, this expression pattern is also consistent with the suggested role for HIRA in the AS1-mediated knox gene silencing. However, HIRA is expressed more widely than AS1 and includes the knox-expressing cells in the SAM, suggesting that HIRA has additional roles as well. [[FIGURE]] To identify the function of HIRA, we obtained two Arabidopsis lines from the SiGNaL collection (CITATION), each with a T-DNA insertion in the 5′ untranslated region (UTR) of HIRA. Homozygosity for either null allele results in embryo lethality (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). To determine whether HIRA is required during later stages of development, we generated transgenic lines that express a 35S:HIRA transgene to select for mutants that confer a weak hira phenotype as a result of posttranscriptional gene silencing. Surprisingly, only five independent 35S:HIRA transgenic lines were obtained upon screening of ∼20,000 T0 seeds. This unusually low frequency of viable transformants suggests that plants, like yeast, may be very sensitive to variations in normal HIRA expression. The five transgenic lines that were recovered developed vegetative and floral phenotypes (Figure 5). These phenotypes vary in severity between the lines but have been stably inherited for multiple generations. Semiquantitative RT-PCR of leaf tissues of the different 35S:HIRA lines revealed that HIRA transcript levels in each line are reduced compared with those in the wild type (Figure 6). However, in situ hybridization analysis suggests that their pattern of HIRA expression is unchanged (Figure 4C). The developmental defects of the 35S:HIRA plants thus seem to result from partial cosuppression of HIRA and may be reminiscent of a weak loss-of-function phenotype conferred by hira. To emphasize that the 35S:HIRA lines do not confer a gain-of-function phenotype, we hereafter refer to them as hira lines. The rosettes of the hira cosuppression plants are smaller and more compact compared with those of normal Columbia plants (Figures 5A and 5B). Their leaves have shortened petioles and appear pinched as a result of an upward curling of the leaf blade near the petiole and midvein. However, the margins of hira leaves are curled under. as1-1 plants in the Columbia background display similar defects, although the leaf-curling phenotype of as1-1 is generally more severe (Figure 5C). Leaves in the hira cosuppression lines are also asymmetric and frequently develop lobes in the proximal region of the blade. These lobes are often more pronounced than the lobes in as1-1 (Figures 5G and 5I). Like as1-1, the number and identity of the floral organs are unaffected in the hira lines, but the sepals, petals, and stamens are reduced in size such that the carpels become exposed prematurely (Figures 5D and 5F). The diverse phenotypes observed in the hira cosuppression lines and null mutants suggest that HIRA affects distinct developmental processes. However, the phenotypic similarity between as1-1 and the hira cosuppression lines and the observed physical interaction between AS1 and HIRA suggest that the knox loci may be among the HIRA targets. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The as1-1 phenotype results, at least in part, from misexpression of BP and KNAT2 in developing leaves (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine whether misexpression of these knox genes also contributes to the phenotypes observed in hira cosuppression lines, we used semiquantitative RT-PCR to compare the expression of the knox genes in mature leaves of wild-type, as1-1, and hira cosuppression lines (Figure 6). As in as1-1 mutants, BP is misexpressed in hira leaves, although the level of BP misexpression varied between the three hira lines analyzed. knox misexpression in as1, as well as in the maize rs2 mutant, occurs predominantly near the base of the leaf (CITATION; CITATION). To determine the pattern of BP misexpression in hira cosuppressed leaves, a GUS reporter gene driven by the BP promoter was introduced into the hira lines. This BP:GUS reporter construct has been shown to contain the cis-acting sequences necessary for repression by AS1 and AS2 (CITATION). Accordingly, BP:GUS expression in wild-type plants is limited to the meristem (Figure 5J). In hira cosuppressed plants, the GUS reporter is expressed in the meristem but is also misexpressed in developing leaves (Figure 5K). GUS activity was observed throughout young leaves but became gradually restricted to the petiole and primary veins during leaf development. This pattern of BP misexpression is comparable to that observed in as1 (CITATION). KNAT2 is expressed strongly in wild-type vegetative and inflorescence meristems but also at a low level in young leaves. In as1 mutant leaves, KNAT2 expression is upregulated (CITATION; CITATION). KNAT2 was not expressed in the wild-type leaf samples analyzed in this study, possibly because these leaves were more mature than those used in previous studies. However, expression of KNAT2 was observed in leaves of as1-1 as well as in one of the hira cosuppression lines (Figure 6). By contrast, expression of the remaining two Arabidopsis class I knox genes, KNAT6 and STM, appears unaffected in the hira lines. KNAT6 is expressed during normal leaf development, but no appreciable differences in the level of KNAT6 expression were observed in any of the tissues analyzed (Figure 6). Expression of STM is normally limited to meristematic cells of the SAM, and this expression pattern is unchanged in as1 mutants (CITATION). Similarly, STM transcripts were undetectable in the leaves of hira cosuppressed plants. These observations indicate that the different knox genes may be under the control of distinct regulatory pathways. Thus, although reduced levels of AS1 and HIRA do not appreciably affect the expression of STM and KNAT6, these genes are required to maintain the repression of BP and KNAT2 during normal leaf development. AS1 and HIRA could conceivably act linearly in a pathway regulating knox gene expression. If so, the phenotypic resemblance between weak hira cosuppressed plants and as1 null alleles would predict that as1 expression is lost or reduced significantly in the hira lines. However, in situ hybridization revealed that AS1 is expressed abundantly in incipient and young leaf primordia of hira seedlings (Figure 5L). This AS1 expression pattern is identical to that previously reported for wild-type plants (CITATION). Also, expression of AS2, which functions with AS1 in the silencing of knox genes, is unchanged in the hira cosuppression lines (Figure 6). Together, these results and the observation that AS1 and HIRA can physically interact suggest that these proteins act together in a complex that maintains determinacy by repressing BP and KNAT2 during normal leaf development. HIRA shares homology with another chromatin-remodeling protein, the p60 subunit of chromatin assembly factor1 (CAF1) (CITATION). In yeast, CAF1 and HIRA have distinct but overlapping functions (CITATION), even though these proteins regulate gene expression in a DNA synthesis–dependent and –independent manner, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). In plants, FASCIATA1 (FAS1) and FAS2, which encode components of CAF1, affect meristem function by regulating the expression of WUS and CLV3 (CITATION). Meristem organization appears normal in hira cosuppressed plants (Figure 5L), and RT-PCR analysis revealed that WUS and CLV3 are not misexpressed in hira leaves (Figure 6). These data suggest that although HIRA and FAS2 are close homologues, these proteins likely regulate meristem function and organogenesis through independent pathways. Misexpression of BP and KNAT2 in as1 and hira cosuppressed leaves is associated with phenotypes that are relatively mild compared with the phenotypes of leaves expressing 35S:BP, which are deeply lobed and develop ectopic stipules and meristems in the sinus regions between the lobes (CITATION). This suggests that silencing at the knox loci is partially maintained in both backgrounds. Although this is not surprising for the weak hira cosuppression lines, the as1-1 allele is amorphic (CITATION). To further evaluate how HIRA functions along with AS1 to regulate knox gene silencing, the 35S:HIRA transgene was crossed into the as1-1 background. Reduced HIRA expression in as1-1 gives rise to plants with severely lobed leaves, and some leaves appear to develop separate leaflets (Figures 7A and 7B). Scanning electron microscopy analysis of such double mutant leaves showed that ectopic meristems often develop at the junction of leaflets with the petiole (Figures 7C and 7D). Thus, hira as1-1 plants exhibit a more severe phenotype that is similar to the phenotype observed in 35S:BP lines. This synergistic interaction between hira and as1-1 suggests that, even though AS1 is unique in the Arabidopsis genome, AS1 function is partially redundant and other factors may meditate the recruitment of HIRA to the knox loci. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The non-myb domain region of RS2 (amino acids 133 to 370) was cloned into pGBT10, creating a fusion between RS2 and the GAL4 DNA binding domain (GDB) (CITATION). Poly(A)+ RNA was isolated from shoot apices of 2-week-old maize (Zea mays) seedlings using Trizol reagent (Gibco BRL) and PolyATract (Promega). Approximately 5 μg of poly(A)+ RNA was primed with oligo(dT) and converted into cDNA using the Stratagene cDNA synthesis kit and the manufacturer's suggested protocol. cDNAs were cloned downstream of the GAL4 activation domain into the EcoRI and XhoI sites of the pGADGH vector. The library consisted of ∼3 × 106 independent clones with average insert size of 1.6 kb, ranging between 0.5 and 3.5 kb. The library was transformed into Escherichia coli, clones were scraped from the agar plates, and DNA was prepared according to standard protocols. The two-hybrid screen was performed as described (CITATION). Approximately 107 GAD-cDNA clones were transformed into yeast strain PJ69-4A expressing the GDB-RS2 fusion protein. Transformants were selected for His prototrophy in the presence of 20 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (3-AT) and subsequently replica-plated and screened for adenine prototrophy. GAD-cDNA plasmids were isolated from His+ colonies by transforming crude yeast DNA extracts into the leuB− E. coli strain HB101 and selecting for Leu prototrophy. Interaction specificity was determined by retransforming the GAD plasmids into PJ69-4A carrying GDB-RS2, pGBT10, or a nonspecific GDB-RAS bait (CITATION) and selecting for His prototrophy in the presence of 0, 20, and 40 mM 3-AT. Further verification of positive interactions was performed by β-galactosidase filter assays. cDNA inserts of positive GAD plasmids were sequenced. Full-length cDNA for hira was isolated using 5′ rapid amplification of cDNA ends PCR (Roche) according to the manufacturer's protocol. ClustalW alignments between the RS2-interacting proteins and their Arabidopsis thaliana homologues were generated using MacVector 6.5.1 (Oxford Molecular Group), with a gap weight of 15.00 and a length weight of 0.30. Parsimony analyses were performed on conserved domains using PAUP4.0. Consensus trees and bootstrap values were determined after 1000 replicates. Full-length cDNA clones for AS2, the Arabidopsis homologues of RIK, and WRKY1 were obtained by RT-PCR and cloned into pGADGH to create GAD fusion proteins. Interactions between these fusion proteins and the non-myb domain of AS1 (amino acids 130 to 367) were determined as described above. The non-myb domain of RS2 or AS1 was cloned into pGEX-6P (Amersham Biosciences), creating an N-terminal fusion with GST. Fusion proteins were expressed and isolated from BL21 E. coli cells as described (CITATION). cDNA clones identified in the yeast two-hybrid screen were transcribed and translated in vitro using the TNT T7 Quick for PCR DNA kit (Promega) according to the manufacturer's protocol. Fifty microliters of glutathione Sepharose 4B beads (Pharmacia Biotech) was incubated for 1 h at 4°C with 20 μg of GST, GST-RS2, or GST-AS1 protein in a total volume of 500 μL of 50 mM Hepes, pH 7.4, 10 mM EDTA, and 0.1% Nonidet P-40. After washing once, the beads were incubated with 20 μL of in vitro–translated protein for 2 h at 4°C in 500 μL of the same buffer. Beads were collected by centrifugation and washed three times in Hepes buffer containing 200 mM NaCl. Precipitated proteins were analyzed by SDS-PAGE. Total RNA was isolated using Trizol reagent according to the manufacturer's instructions (Gibco BRL). Approximately 2 μg of DNaseI-treated RNA was primed with oligo(dT) and converted into cDNA using moloney murine leukemia virus reverse transcriptase (New England Biolabs). The cDNA concentrations in different tissue samples were equalized semiquantitatively based on the amplification of ubiquitin in maize and α-tubulin in Arabidopsis. Subsequent PCRs were performed using standard procedures. The annealing temperature was 60°C, and each PCR product was analyzed after 30 cycles. The primers used for amplification of the various maize and Arabidopsis cDNAs are available upon request. For the construction of fluorescent fusion proteins, the coding regions of hira and rik were amplified with primers that included appropriate restriction sites and were cloned upstream of plant enhanced GFP and CFP, respectively (gifts from Eric Lam, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ). These fusions were inserted into an expression cassette containing the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and octopine synthase terminator. Approximately 1.5 μg of 1-μm gold particles (Bio-Rad) were coated with 0.15 μg of plasmid DNA according to the manufacturer's instructions and were bombarded into onion (Allium cepa) cells at 900 pounds per square inch with a PDS-100 helium biolistic particle delivery system (Bio-Rad). After overnight incubation in a humid chamber, onion epidermal tissues were mounted in water and viewed at ×20 and ×40 magnification with an Axioplan 2 fluorescent compound microscope (Zeiss). A full-length HIRA cDNA was cloned in the sense orientation behind the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter in a T-DNA binary vector that confers kanamycin resistance to plants (PS119). This T-DNA was transformed into plants of the Columbia ecotype. The as1-1 allele results from a frameshift mutation in the non-myb domain of AS1 (CITATION). This allele was introgressed five times into the Columbia ecotype. T-DNA insertion lines for HIRA were obtained from SiGNaL (CITATION) and correspond to accessions SALK019573 and SALK143806. The positions of the T-DNA insertions were verified by PCR. Segregation analysis was also performed by PCR. The line expressing the BP:GUS reporter gene (CITATION) was a gift from S. Hake (Plant Gene Expression Center, Albany, CA). All plants were grown under long-day conditions at 20°C. Ten-day-old seedlings were fixed and embedded as described previously (CITATION). Digoxigenin-labeled probes were prepared by in vitro transcription according to the manufacturer's protocol (Stratagene). The AS1-specific probe comprises amino acids 138 to 368 and part of the 3′ UTR. The HIRA-specific probe includes amino acids 613 to 1052 and part of the 3′ UTR. Both probes were used at a concentration of 0.5 ng·μl−1·kb−1. Tissue sections were pretreated, hybridized, and washed using published protocols (CITATION). Phylogenetic analysis of LBD family members was based on the LOB domain (CITATION). Analysis of the WRKY proteins was based on the conserved N-terminal (amino acids 1 to 100, approximately) and WRKY domains (CITATION). These regions were aligned with the ClustalW program available in MacVector. Phylogenetic trees were generated in the program PAUP4.0 using the Neighbor Joining method with a 1000 bootstrap output. Accession numbers for the major genes discussed in this article are listed in Tables 1 and 2. GenBank accession numbers for the helicases shown in the alignment in Figure 1 are as follows: Arabidopsis, NP173516; human, NP055644; Drosophila, AAF48446; and yeast, NP009796. The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for the Arabidopsis WRKY genes are as follows: WRKY11, At4g32550; WRKY17, At2g24570; WRKY22, At4g01250; WRKY15, At2g23320; and WRKY7, At4g24240. The accession number for the orchardgrass WRKY gene is AAG42147. The accession numbers corresponding to the remaining WRKY proteins in Figure 1D are presented in Table 1 or 2. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. HIRA Insertion Lines Are Embryo Lethal. Supplemental Figure 2. Sequence Analysis of the LOB Domains from Selected LBD Family Members. Supplemental Figure 3. Sequence Alignment of the Various WRKY Family Members.
