!~ABS~! Plant cells are known to elongate exogenously provided fatty acid (FA), but the subcellular sites and mechanisms for this process are not currently understood. When Arabidopsis leaves were incubated with 14C-FAs with ≤16 carbons, the label appeared in elongated and desaturated products. Laurate elongation was 85% inhibited by 50 μm cerulenin, an inhibitor of ketoacyl-acyl carrier protein (ACP) synthetase I/II. In contrast, haloxyfop, an inhibitor of cytosolic acetyl-coenzyme A (CoA) carboxylase, inhibited only elongation into very long chain FAs (≥20 carbons) but not synthesis of 14C-unsaturated 18-carbon or 16-carbon FAs. Isolated pea chloroplasts were also able to elongate 14C-FAs (≤16 carbons) in the light. No detectable 14C-acyl-CoA intermediates were formed during 14C-laurate elongation, whereas 14C-acyl-ACP accumulated to 2.3 μm. These data indicate that the elongation of exogenous medium-chain FAs to 16- and 18-carbon FAs occurs primarily in the chloroplasts, most likely via the enzymes of de novo FA synthesis. An Arabidopsis mutant with a T-DNA insertion in At4g14070 (AAE15) was reduced 80% in 14C-laurate elongation into 16- and 18-carbon FAs. AAE15 has sequence similarity to long-chain acyl-CoA synthetases and a predicted N-terminal plastidial targeting sequence. Direct acyl-ACP-forming activity from FA and ACP was observed in extracts of Arabidopsis leaves and isolated chloroplasts but aae15 plants had markedly reduced in vitro acyl-ACP synthesis activity. Together these results demonstrate that plants possess a mechanism for direct activation of FA to ACP in the plastid via an acyl-ACP synthetase encoded by At4g14070.
!~RES~! When leaves of Arabidopsis were incubated with [1-14C]laurate in the light, label appeared in essentially all classes of glycerolipids within 3 h. As indicated in Figure 1, label from [1-14C]laurate was initially incorporated into PC and TAG. Whereas incorporation into PC, phosphatidylglycerol (PG) and monogalactosyldiacylglycerol (MGDG) continued to increase until 90 min, the rapid incorporation into TAG ended by 30 min, after which the label in TAG decreased, presumably through transfer into other lipids. A range of 14C-labeled free fatty acids (FFAs) were also incorporated into glycerolipids, but the products depended strongly on the chain length (Table S1). Radioactivity from substrates with a shorter chain length (≤C10) was incorporated preferentially into plastidial lipids (about 24% into MGDG and about 10% into PG) whereas longer substrates (≥C14) were predominantly found in cytosolic lipids (about 30% in PC; Table S1). Radioactivity from lauric acid (C12) showed an intermediate level of distribution between MGDG (14%) and PC (22%). These results extend a previous study in which palmitic acid fed to spinach leaves was initially incorporated into PC and subsequently transferred into plastidial galactolipids (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The elongation and desaturation pattern of each FA substrate was determined by TLC after transmethylation (Table S2). In all cases, label was found in FAs longer than the substrates, but there was an inverse relationship between substrate chain length and the extent of elongation and desaturation. With shorter-chain FA substrates (≤C10) over 95% of the radioactivity was elongated and/or desaturated after 3 h of incubation, whereas 65 and 37% of [1-14C]lauric acid and [1-14C]myristic acid, respectively, was elongated. Palmitate was the least suitable substrate for elongation (13%) and especially for desaturation. Reduced desaturation in the labeled products was also observed as the length of substrates increased. As indicated in Figure 2, the rate of exogenous incorporation of 10 μm laurate into longer fatty acids was linear for approximately 60 min. The initial rate (calculated at 20 min) was 4.9 nmol C12 h−1 mg chlorophyll−1 (Figure 2) and corresponds to about 11 nmol C2 h−1 mg chlorophyll−1 (C14 20%, C16 50%, C18 28%, C20 0.64%, C22 0.64%, C24 1.3%, C26 0.64%). For comparison, 10 μm acetate is incorporated into FAs by spinach leaf or isolated spinach chloroplast at about 10–100 nmol h−1 mg chlorophyll−1 (CITATION; CITATION). Exogenous acetate is incorporated into leaf FAs at rates that approach the in vivo rate of FAS (CITATION). Although it is difficult to make direct comparison between incorporation of substrates with solubility or membrane permeability as different as acetate and laurate, this comparison nevertheless indicates that activation and elongation of laurate is not a minor activity of leaves. [[FIGURE]] The time course of elongation of [1-14C]laurate into individual FAs (Figure 2, minor components not shown) indicated that the highest proportion of labeled FA species was palmitate followed by oleate and myristate. The synthesis rates of 14:0, 16:0, 16:1, 18:0 and 18:1 were maintained for about 30 min, whereas more elongated and desaturated species steadily increased until 90 min or more. The more elongated (≥C20 FAs) and desaturated species (16:2/16:3, 18:2/18:3) continued to accumulate at the expense of shorter and less desaturated precursors. The interpretation of the labeling data presented above could be confused if the added [1-14C]fatty acids were subject to β-oxidation and 14C products were recycled into de novo FAS. To evaluate this possibility we determined the distribution of 14C in the oleic acid elongation product by oxidative cleavage at the double bond position followed by TLC of the products (Table S3, CITATION; CITATION). Results of these analyses indicated that radiolabel in the elongated/desaturated oleic acid product formed from [1-14C]10:0, −12:0 or −14:0 is found only in the carboxyl half of the molecule rather than evenly distributed as would be expected from de novo synthesis. Therefore, the [14C] products are not derived from β-oxidation of the added [1-14C] fatty acids. It was previously hypothesized that the elongation of exogenously fed short- and medium-chain fatty acids occurs in the chloroplast (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) however, no direct evidence for this assumption has been presented and a mechanism to activate FAs to ACP in the chloroplast has not been described. Furthermore, plants also have the ability to elongate FAs in the cytosol by a membrane-bound endoplasmic reticulum (ER) system that could provide an alternative to plastids (CITATION). Mitochondria also synthesize FAs, although the major products are 14 carbons long or shorter (CITATION). In order to distinguish between organelle and cytosolic contributions to laurate elongation, cerulenin, an inhibitor of the KAS I and KAS II condensing enzymes (but not cytosolic elongation), was used. If there is a major cytosolic contribution then laurate would be elongated despite inhibition of organellar FAS. As shown in Figure 3(a) both [1-14C]laurate and [1-14C]acetate elongation were strongly inhibited by cerulenin with an almost identical dose dependence (85% at 50 μm and 95% at 200 μm, respectively). Two conclusions can be made from this experiment. First, the major activity of laurate elongation into C16 and C18 FAs is most likely associated with KAS I/II and is localized to the plastid, or possibly the mitochondrion. Second, laurate is apparently a poor substrate for direct elongation by cytosolic FA elongation enzymes. Figure 3(b) indicates the cerulenin effect on incorporation of laurate into individual glycerolipids. Cerulenin increased incorporation of laurate into PC but had almost no effect on TAG. Since laurate was not able to elongate in the presence of cerulenin, incorporation into PC and TAG was most likely mediated by acyl transferases that have activity on substrates with a medium chain length. On the other hand the appearance of label in MGDG, PG and digalactosyldiacylglycerol (DGDG) was greatly reduced by inhibition of elongation by cerulenin, suggesting that plastid acyl transferases may be more selective for acyl chain length. [[FIGURE]] Acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACCase) catalyzes synthesis of malonyl-CoA, the carbon donor of FAS. Two forms of ACCase occur in Arabidopsis with different sensitivity to the herbicide haloxyfop. The heteromeric ACCase in plastids that provides malonyl-CoA for de novo FAS is insensitive, whereas the cytosolic homodimeric ACCase that supplies malonyl-CoA for FA elongation is inhibited by haloxyfop (CITATION; CITATION). The cytosolic ACCase is also believed to be responsible for the supply of malonyl-CoA for mitochondrial FAS (CITATION). When leaves of Arabidopsis were incubated with [1-14C]laurate and increasing amounts of haloxyfop there was almost no effect on overall synthesis of FAs up to C18, whereas elongation into FAs ≥C20 was selectively inhibited (60–70%; Figure 4). These data demonstrate that the initial elongation of laurate into palmitic and oleic acid is not inhibited by haloxyfop and support the conclusion from the cerulenin experiments that this process occurs mainly in plastids. Synthesis of 14:0 and 18:0 was moderately (40–50%) reduced by haloxyfop. An interpretation consistent with this result is that a portion of stearate synthesis from exogenous laurate occurs after palmitate is exported from plastids. Furthermore, these data suggest that some of the 14:0 FA products are derived from a haloxyfop sensitive entity, presumably either at the ER or mitochondria. [[FIGURE]] To examine more directly the capacity of chloroplasts to elongate medium-chain FAs, isolated pea chloroplasts were incubated under illumination with 10 μm [1-14C]laurate. As shown in Figure 5(a) the initial rate of laurate elongation into >C12 FAs was 22 nmol C12 h−1 mg chlorophyll−1 which is about four times faster than the rate measured in the intact leaf (Figure 2). This difference may reflect difficulties exogenous laurate has in penetrating the leaf cuticle to reach the plastid, competition by endogenous substrates or perhaps feedback regulation in the intact leaf compared with isolated chloroplasts. [[FIGURE]] Several characteristics of elongation of laurate by isolated pea chloroplasts are indicated in Figure 5(b). First, no detectable elongation was observed in the dark. Although the elongation was not dependent on exogenously provided ATP, 1 mm ATP stimulated the elongation about 1.4-fold in the light as observed also for synthesis of FAs from acetate (CITATION). The elongation of [1-14C]laurate was reduced by 60% with 10 μm cerulenin (Figure 5b) and almost completely with 50 μm cerulenin (data not shown) in a manner similar to the inhibition of [1-14C]acetate. These experiments demonstrate that isolated chloroplasts have the ability to elongate exogenous MCFA through the de novo FAS system. The inhibition and isolated chloroplast data presented above indicate that elongation of exogenous MCFA can largely be attributed to plastid de novo FAS. All elongation steps in de novo FAS involve condensation between malonyl-ACP and a growing chain of acyl-ACP and therefore exogenous FFAs must be activated to ACP prior to involvement in further FAS reactions. However, the mechanism by which exogenous FAs become activated prior to their plastid elongation is unclear. We used three different approaches to understand the activation process of exogenous FFAs in the plastid. First we examined acyl-ACP and acyl-CoA pools formed during the elongation of exogenous [1-14C]laurate by pea chloroplasts. Second, we tested several Arabidopsis mutants/transgenics disrupted in gene candidates that might be involved in the acyl activation processes. Third, we directly measured acyl-ACP-forming activity from Arabidopsis leaf and chloroplast extracts. Intermediates of 14C-laurate elongation by chloroplasts were examined by the procedure of CITATION which separates acyl-ACP from acyl-CoA. In order to verify that the recovered acyl-ACP fraction did contain acyl-ACP molecules, the time-course labeling pattern of acyl-ACP fractions in the light and in the dark were examined as shown in Figure 6. Incorporation of acetate into total lipid increased linearly in the light. Upon removal of light, incorporation of acetate stopped immediately and resumed with re-illumination. Within about 1 min of labeling in the light, the acyl-ACP fraction reached saturation and did not increase further in the light. In the dark, label disappeared rapidly and completely. Thus, the labeling pattern of the acyl-ACP fraction with both acetate and laurate showed kinetics typical of intermediates with high turnover rates and similar to patterns observed previously for acyl-ACP (CITATION). We estimate that the pool size of [1-14C]acyl-ACP was 0.5–2.3 μm assuming a chloroplast volume of 47 μl mgchlorophyll−1 (CITATION). This compares with a total ACP content in spinach chloroplast of about 8 μm (CITATION) and estimated 5 μm total acyl-ACP in the acetate-labeled spinach chloroplast (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To detect radiolabeled acyl-CoA in these incubations, several different extraction methods were employed. We tested (i) direct separation of the reaction mixture by TLC (butanol/acetic acid/water developing system) following rapid quench and solubilization with chloroform/methanol (1/1), (ii) a modified version of the acyl-CoA separation procedure developed by CITATION and (iii) butanol extraction of the aqueous phase after lipid extraction (CITATION) followed by TLC separation. With each method, recovery of [1-14C]acyl-CoA standards was at least 60%, but we could detect <0.1 nm labeled acyl-CoA in pea chloroplasts labeled with [1-14C]laurate. Thus, in contrast to acyl-ACP formation, almost no detectable acyl-CoA intermediate was formed during the elongation process. Based on our detection limits, the pool size of any acyl-CoA intermediate is estimated to be at least 100–1000-fold lower than the acyl-ACP concentration in the stroma. The above observation of acyl-ACP but not acyl-CoA intermediates supported the hypothesis that there is a plastid enzyme that directly activates FAs to ACP. To further investigate the activation of laurate to ACP by chloroplasts we identified potential Arabidopsis genes that might be involved in FA activation in the plastid (Table 1, see also the Introduction). Because laurate elongation was associated mainly with plastids, we selected candidates that were reported to be plastidial or had a plastid targeting sequence as predicted by Target P (CITATION). At5g36880 (acetyl-CoA synthetase) has been reported to be a plastidial ACS in a previous study (CITATION) and At2g04350 (LACS8) was positive in in vitro chloroplast import assays (CITATION). AAE15 (At4g14070) and AAE16 (At3g23790) have sequence elements similar to LACS and are grouped along with the other nine LACS in the same clade among the 63 AMP-binding proteins of Arabidopsis. All the above predicted proteins also have a high reliability class for plastidial targeting. CITATION reported that both AAE15 and AAE16 could not complement a yeast mutant deficient in LACS (C14–C18 FAs were tested) and neither gene product had activity in in vitro assays using cell-free lysates of yeast or E. coli expressing AAE15 and AAE16. aTargetP (web server at http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) was used to predict subcelluar localization. bReliability class (RC) values shown in parenthesis are given by the TargetP software and range from 1 to 5, RC1 being the highest. To test the possible involvement of these candidates in exogenous FFA activation in the plastid Arabidopsis lines impaired in the gene candidates were obtained. Leaves from ACS gene-silenced lines, lacs8, aae15/aae16 and wild type (ecotype Columbia) Arabidopsis were incubated with [1-14C]laurate. As indicated in Figure 7, elongation of laurate and formation of 18:1, 16:1, 18:2, 16:2 and 18:3/16:3 were greatly reduced in aae15/aae16 whereas no significant changes were observed with the ACS antisense lines or with lacs8. [[FIGURE]] Elongation into 14:0 FAs was not substantially reduced [Figure 7(b)]. As noted previously [Figures 3(a) and 4] at least some portion of laurate elongation into 14:0 was contributed by both haloxyfop-sensitive (i.e. ER, mitochondrial) and cerulenin-sensitive (i.e. plastid, mitochondrial) activities. The fact that elongation into 14:0 FAs was not blocked in the mutants that were strongly reduced in laurate elongation into C16 and C18 FAs further supports the conclusion that some laurate elongation flux occurs through mitochondrial (CITATION) and/or ER pathways. In order to determine which gene among AAE15 and AAE16 was responsible for the defect in exogenous MCFA elongation activity, single knock-outs were tested for elongation activity (Figure 8). Since it is also possible that there could be different substrate specificities among the two gene products, four different substrates, [1-14C]-labeled 2:0, 8:0, 12:0 and 14:0, were tested. [1-14C]Acetate was used as a control to test whether the disruption of MCFA elongation was due to some defect in FAS machinery other than the FA activation process. There were no major differences in the rate of incorporation of acetate into FAs in both single knock-outs (aae15, aae16) and double knock-out (aae15/aae16) compared with wild type (WS). Elongation of [1-14C]8:0 into both C16 and C18 FAs was consistently reduced to 10% or less of wild-type elongation, in the aae15 and aae15/aae16 plants. [[FIGURE]] Elongation activity in aae15 and aae15/aae16 was reduced to about 20% of wild-type levels with [1-14C]12:0 substrate. Both aae15 and aae15/aae16 retained about 60% of elongation activity into C16 FAs with [1-14C]14:0 substrate. The observation that elongation was reduced to a lesser degree with longer substrates is consistent with the idea that some portion of elongation activity has an extra-plastidial origin and this activity preferred substrates with a longer chain length. Such activities have been described for pea (CITATION) and leek (CITATION) microsomes. With all substrates tested there was no apparent change in the aae16 plant. We conclude that the AAE15 gene product is a major factor responsible for elongation of exogenous MCFA by Arabidopsis leaves. The AAE mutants described above represent independent lines in two different genetic backgrounds (Col-0 for Salk lines and WS for aae15/aae16). This rules out the possibility that the FA elongation phenotype is due to a second unexamined mutation in one of the lines. Although previous efforts in our and other laboratories have been able to detect only very low in vitro acyl-ACP synthetase activity in plants, the above results prompted a re-examination of direct acyl-ACP-forming activity. An in vitro acyl-ACP synthetase (AAS) assay was adopted from procedures used to assay E. coli AAS and consisted of incubating plant extracts with [1-14C]laurate and spinach ACP in buffer containing Triton X-100, ATP and DTT. In the standard E. coli AAS assay with 0.4 m LiCl2 we were not able to detect plant acyl-ACP synthetase activity. However, after reducing the salt concentration (to 40 mm LiCl2) in the buffer, Arabidopsis leaf extracts catalyzed incorporation of [14C]laurate into exogenously added ACP (Figure 9). The incorporation was linear up to at least 50 μm ACP, and similar results were observed with isolated pea chloroplasts (data not shown). At 53 μm the specific activity in the crude leaf homogenate was 2 nmol h−1 mg protein−1. [[FIGURE]] The identity of the major radioactive product bound to the DE-81 ion-exchange filter was confirmed as [1-14C]lauroyl-ACP by its co-migration with standards on SDS-PAGE (Figure 9). We also tested whether the in vitro AAS activity correlated with the presence/absence of AAE15 or AAE16 genes. Figure 10(a) presents the in vitro AAS activity in leaf extracts of wild-type, aae15, aae16 and aae15/aae16 plants. There was about a 40 and 55% reduction of in vitro AAS activity in the aae15 and aae15/aae16 mutants, respectively, as judged by products binding to DE-81 filters. In the SDS-PAGE gel image of aae15/aae16 double knock-out plants, the reduction was even greater. In contrast, the aae16 mutant was not affected or showed slightly increased activity compared with the wild type. [[FIGURE]] These results demonstrate that the AAE15 gene product is responsible for at least 40–55% of the AAS activity seen in the leaf homogenates. Considering the large number (about 60) of acyl-activating enzymes in the Arabidopsis genome, the 40–55% reduction due to a single gene mutation confirms the specificity of AAE enzyme activity in this assay. The remaining activity could be from other AAE isoforms or from combined non-specific activities of AAE enzymes. As expected the AAS activity was enriched in the chloroplast fraction [Figure 10(b)]. Although exogenous FAs are important energy sources for unicelluar organisms and animal cells, intercellular transport and exchange of lipid molecules is considered to be quantitatively minor among plant tissues. Thus activation and elongation of exogenous FAs may appear extraneous to the ‘normal’ physiological function of plants. Indeed aae15 does not show any visible phenotypes under normal growth conditions. However, the gene product of AAE15 and/or AAE16 may become important under certain conditions. Expressed sequence tag (EST) and microarray expression profiles suggest that AAE enzymes are expressed at levels similar to a number of core enzymes of lipid metabolism including LACS enzymes (CITATION, http://www.plantbiology.msu.edu/lipids/genesurvey/). Based on these and other considerations we speculate that an acyl-ACP synthetase activity may be important for at least two reasons. One initial hypothesis is that AAE15 may be involved in membrane acyl editing within the plastid. Such editing is believed to be essential for adjusting membrane properties under stress conditions. For example, after a shift from 30 to 12°C, Dunaliella remodels the acyl distributions of pre-existing glycerolipids between sn-1 and sn-2 to increase molecular species having two unsaturated FAs (CITATION). Nine out of 11 AAE15 ESTs are derived from cDNA libraries constructed after dehydration or cold treatments. Thus, this enzyme may be induced (together with lipases?) to allow remodeling of plastid membranes under stress conditions. In this case the released FFAs are expected to be the long-chain FAs which do not need to be elongated. Because elongation of a range of chain lengths (8:0, 12:0 and 14:0) was reduced in aae15 (Figure 8), the chain-length substrate specificity of AAE15 toward FAs may be broad. Potentially harmful FFAs may also be released from the membrane under other conditions, including wounding and senescence. The expression pattern of AAE15 based on microarrays indicates expression in all tissues tested (http://www.plantbiology.msu.edu/lipids/genesurvey/). However, AAE16 expression is highest in senescent leaves, a time when turnover of FAs is increased (CITATION). An additional possible function of AAE15 may be in ‘proof reading’ of de novo FAS. Fatty acid elongation during de novo FAS in the plastid halts when the growing chain of the FA is hydrolyzed from ACP by fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase. If shorter FAs ‘escape’ FAS prematurely and are released into the membrane there may need to be mechanisms to recapture them for return to the elongation process, thereby preventing disruption of membranes. One interesting characteristic of AAE15/AAE16 is that their sequences are unrelated to either E. coli or Vibrio harveyi acyl-ACP synthetases and are more closely related to sequences from cyanobacteria (e.g. accession, BAB75301) than to any of the other Arabidopsis LACSs or AMP-binding proteins. Both the subcellular localization predictors (ChloroP and TargetP) and the biochemical data presented in this paper indicate AAE15 is a plastidial enzyme. It is also likely that AAE15/AAE16 is localized to the plastid envelope. Although TMHMM v2.0 (CITATION) did not detect any obvious alpha-helical transmembrane segments, TopPred 2 (CITATION), TMpred (CITATION) and DAS (CITATION) predicted one to five possible transmembrane domain regions depending on stringency. Furthermore, AAE15 was also represented in a list of Arabidopsis plastid envelope proteins identified by proteomics (CITATION).
!~MM~! Wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) was used in all experiments unless otherwise indicated as Wassilewskija (WS). Acetyl-CoA synthetase (ACS) gene-silenced lines were kindly provided to us by Dr David J. Oliver from Iowa State University. These lines (T2 plants) had about 15 to 30% of wild-type ACS activity (D. J. Oliver, personal communication). T-DNA insertion mutant lines for LACS8 (At2g04350, seed stock identifier SALK_136060), AAE15 (At4g14070, SALK_139663) and AAE16 (At3g23790, SALK_067859) were identified from the Sequence-Indexed Library of Insertion Mutations using Arabidopsis Gene Mapping Tool (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress) and the seed stocks were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC). Homozygous knock-out lines were selected among the T3 generations by PCR screening for both the presence of T-DNA insertion and the absence of an intact gene. The lines tested for [1-14C]laurate elongation activity were T4 generation homozygous knock-outs. The insertions were at the eighth intron for LACS8 knock-out (lacs8, ABRC stock identifier SALK_136060) and at the seventh intron and second exon, respectively, for AAE15 knock-out (aae15, SALK_139663) and AAE16 knock-out lines (aae16, SALK_067859). Arabidopsis plants were grown at 80–100 μmol photons m−2sec−1 and 22°C under an 18-h light/6-h dark photoperiod. Pea seeds (Pisum sativum L. cv. Little marvel) were grown for 8–10 days in the growth chamber at 25°C and an 8-h photoperiod. [1-14C]Acetic acid (57.2 Ci mol−1), [1-14C]ocatanoic acid (55 mCi mmol−1), [1-14C]decanoic acid (55 mCi mmol−1), [1-14C]dodecanoic acid (55 mCimmol−1), [1-14C]tetradecanoic acid (55 mCi mmol−1) and [1-14C]hexadecanoic acid (55 mCi mmol−1) were purchased from American Radiolabeled Chemicals Inc. (St Louis, MO, USA). Cerulenin (2,3-epoxy-4-oxo-7,10-dodecadienamide) was from Sigma (St Louis, MO, USA) and was used from a 50 mm stock in absolute ethanol. The herbicide haloxyfop was a gift from DowElanco (Indianapolis, IN, USA) and was used from a 100 mm stock in 100% methanol. Different aae15 and aae16 mutants used to generate the double mutant line were derived from screenings on two different T-DNA tagged populations. Whereas aae15 was isolated from the population established by CITATION, aae16 was isolated from the Basta-resistant population of the Arabidopsis Knockout Facility at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Biotechnology. Both populations are of ecotype WS. In aae15 the T-DNA insertion was found in the first intron whereas in aae16 the T-DNA insertion was found in the ninth exon. The single insertion status of both lines was confirmed by testing the segregation ratio of individual heterozygous plants on selective media containing either kanamycin or Basta. The aae15/aae16 double mutant resulted from crossing two homozygous lines and genotyping the F2 generation for the presence of both T-DNA insertions and the absence of intact wild-type copies of AAE15 and AAE16. Twenty- to 30-day-old detached Arabidopsis leaves (0.2 g fresh weight per assay) were incubated in 25 mm Na-Morpholinoethanesulfonic acid (MES, pH 5.7) buffer containing 0.01% w/v Tween-20 as wetting agent under illumination (180 μmol photons m−2 sec−1) at 25°C. For cerulenin and haloxyfop inhibition assays, the leaves were pre-incubated for 20–30 min in the above media containing inhibitors. The reactions were initiated by adding 0.1–1 μCi of [1-14C]-labeled FA to 5–10 μm final concentration. Unlabeled acetate (1 mm) was added for incubations with [1-14C]acetate as indicated in the figure legends. At the end of each incubation, buffer was removed and leaves were washed with water and blotted briefly onto filter paper. The leaves were frozen with liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C until lipid extraction. Intact chloroplasts were isolated on a continuous Percoll gradient. Isolation from pea was based on procedures described by CITATION while that from Arabidopsis was according to CITATION. All procedures were conducted at 0–4°C. About 10–20 g of 8-day-old pea seedlings were homogenized in 100 ml of semifrozen homogenization buffer (50 mm HEPES, pH 8.0, 330 mm sorbitol, 0.1% BSA, 1 mm MgCl2, 1 mm MnCl2, 2 mm EDTA) using a polytron (PT 10/35) and filtered through two layers of Miracloth. For Arabidopsis, rosettes from 20- to 25-day-old plants were homogenized in 10–20 ml of semifrozen isolation buffer (0.3 m sorbitol, 5 mm MgCl2, 5 mm EGTA, 20 mm HEPES/KOH, pH 8.0, 10 mm NaHCO3) and following filtering homogenization was repeated three more times from the debris. Chloroplasts were collected by centrifugation at a maximum of 1200 g for 5 min. These were purified by centrifugation through pre-made gradients of Percoll generated by centrifugation of 30 ml of 50% Percoll in homogenization (isolation) buffer for 30 min at 40 000 g. Crude chloroplasts (1.5–3 ml) were centrifuged through this pre-made gradient at a maximum of 13 000 g for 5 min (maximum 7800 g for 10 min for Arabidopsis) in an HB-4 rotor without a brake. The intact chloroplast band formed near the bottom of the gradient was recovered and washed with resuspension buffer containing 50 mm HEPES, pH 8.0 and 330 mm sorbitol. The resulting isolated chloroplasts were able to incorporate acetate into FAs at rates corresponding to in vivo rates of FAS and import and process in vitro translated protein precursors. Chlorophyll was determined as described by CITATION. Chloroplast incubations to synthesize FAs were performed largely according to the methods described by CITATION. Chloroplasts (80 μg chlorophyll) were incubated for a designated time under illumination (180 μmol photons m−2 sec−1) with shaking at 25°C in a medium (200–500 μl) containing 0.33 m sorbitol, 25 mm HEPES-NaOH, pH 8.0, 10 mm KHCO3, 2 mm Na3EDTA, 1 mm MgCl2, 1 mm MnCl2, 0.5 mm K2HPO4, and with either 0.2 mm [1-14C]acetate (5 μCi) or 10 μm [1-14C]laurate (0.1 μCi). Where noted in the text, assays also contained 1 mm ATP and cerulenin. An aliquot was removed before the illumination and used to measure the actual radioactivity added. Reactions were terminated by placing the incubation mixture into liquid nitrogen and were stored at −80°C until lipid analysis. After quenching the tissue by heating in isopropanol at 80–90°C for 5 min, lipid extraction was carried out using hexane-isopropanol (CITATION). An aliquot of the lipid extract was suspended in 4:1 acetone:water and the optical density at 652 nm was measured to determine chlorophyll (CITATION); another aliquot was assayed by liquid scintillation counting to determine the incorporated radioactivity. Triacylglycerol, FFA and DAG were separated by silica gel TLC using hexane/diethylether/acetic acid (v/v/v = 80/20/1). Other glycerol lipids were separated by developing on ammonium-impregnated K6 TLC three times with acetone/toluene/water (v/v/v = 91/30/8). Lipids were also detected by staining with iodine vapors or with 0.2% (w/v) 2′-7′-dichlorofluorescein/methanol and viewing under UV light. Co-migration with lipid standards was used to identify the different glycerolipid classes. Individual fatty acyl groups were analyzed as follows. The lipid extract was dried under N2 and redissolved in 0.1 ml toluene. Transmethylation was carried out by heating at 90°C for 1 h with 1 ml of 10% (v/v) boron trifloride/methanol (Sigma). After acidification with aqueous acetic acid, FA methyl esters (FAMEs) were extracted twice with hexane. Fatty acid methyl esters were separated by argentation TLC (CITATION). K6 TLC plates were prepared by impregnating with 7.5% silver nitrate in acetonitrile solution and drying. Samples were developed with toluene at −20°C. Saturated FAMEs were recovered by sonication of scraped bands in hexane/diethylether (v/v = 2/1) and separated a second time by C18-reversed phase TLC with acetonitrile/methanol/water (v/v/v = 130/70/1). Unsaturated FAs were eluted from the silica with chloroform/methanol/water (v/v/v = 5/5/1) and were hydrogenated in the presence of platinum(IV) oxide (PtO2) in methanol for 3 h. Reduction of unsaturated to saturated FAMEs was confirmed by gas chromatography analysis and the chain length of resulting saturated FAs was routinely determined by C18-reversed phase TLC as above. Radioactivity on the TLC plate was detected and quantified with an Instant Imager (Packard Instrument Co., Meriden, CT, USA) and a liquid scintillation counter. The procedure described by CITATION was used to isolate acyl-ACP with the following modifications. Frozen samples were rapidly quenched on a heating block (>90°C) with the addition of hot isopropanol (equal volume with reaction) for 10 min. Lipids were extracted twice with 3 ml hexane. Precipitation of the acyl-ACP fraction was carried out by addition of 50 μl of saturated ammonium sulfate solution and 8 ml of chloroform/methanol (1/2, v/v) at room temperature for 20 min. The pellet was collected by centrifugation (2600 g for 5 min) and was washed again with 5 ml chloroform/methanol (1/2, v/v), 1% dimethoxypropane. The combined supernatant (13 ml) was partitioned against 7 ml of 0.2 m H3PO4 in 2 m KCl and the chloroform layer was recovered. After evaporation under N2, acyl lipids were transmethylated with boron trifluoride in methanol and FAME were extracted twice with 3 ml hexane and combined with lipid extracts collected at the initial hexane extractions. Radioactivity of an aliquot was counted by liquid scintillation to determine incorporation of acetate into the total lipids. The pellet fraction was resuspended in 2 ml of 0.5 m NaOCH3 (in methanol) and transmethylation was allowed to proceed at room temperature for 20 min. Two milliliters of water and lipid carriers were added and FAME were extracted three times with 2.5 ml hexane. An aliquot was counted with a liquid scintillation counter. The FAME were separated from unesterified FAs by K6 TLC (hexane/diethyl ether/acetic acid = 90/10/1). The per cent total radioactivity in each lane was quantified using the Instant Imager. Arabidopsis leaf extracts were prepared by homogenizing 2–5 g of 20–25-day-old rosettes in 10 ml of semifrozen homogenization buffer [50 mm HEPES, pH 8.0, 330 mm sorbitol, 0.1% BSA (BSA was excluded from the buffer used to prepare homogenates for protein quantifications), 1 mm MgCl2, 1 mm MnCl2, 2 mm EDTA] using a polytron (PT 10/35) and filtered through two layers of pre-wetted Miracloth. Homogenization of collected debris was repeated twice more. The resulting homogenates were combined and centrifuged at a maximum of 1000 g for 5 min. The pellet was resuspended in 1–2 ml buffer containing 50 mm HEPES, pH 8.0 and 330 mm sorbitol. Total protein was determined using the Bio-Rad Bradford protein assay according to the manufacturer's instruction (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). A typical assay mixture contained 40–50 μg leaf/chloroplast extract protein, 0–50 μm recombinant spinach ACP, 0.1–1 μCi [14C]laurate (55 mCi mmol−1) dissolved in Triton X-100 (2% final) and reaction buffer (5 mm ATP, 2 mm DTT, 10 mm Tris, 1 mm MgCl2·6H2O, 40 mm LiCl2, pH 8.0) in a total volume of 25 μl. Leaf homogenates/chloroplasts were first pelleted in a microfuge tube at a maximum of 16 000 g for 30 sec. Supernatants were removed as completely as possible. The desired amount (indicated in the figures) of spinach ACP was added to the tube containing the pellet. The reaction was initiated by adding the reaction buffer (see above for compositions) together with [14C]laurate substrate and mixing gently. Following incubation at 37°C for the desired length of time, the total reaction mixture was pipetted onto a DE-81 anion exchange filter (25 mm circles, Whatman) and washed four times for 2–3 min each with 80% isopropanol, 20% 10 mm KPO4 pH 6.0 and 0.1 m NaCl. The radioactivity remaining on the filter after the washes was determined by liquid scintillation counting. For SDS-PAGE analysis of reaction products, total protein in the reaction mixture was precipitated by adding 250 μl of ice-cold 10% trichloroacetic acid. Following 30 min of incubation on ice, protein was pelleted by centrifuging at a maximum of 16 000 g at 4°C for 6 min. The pellet was washed with 0.5% ice-cold trichloroacetic acid and the supernatant removed completely. Soluble proteins were redissolved in 0.25 m MES (pH 7.0) buffer. Protein samples were heated to 100°C for 3 min in sample buffer [2% (w/v) SDS, 8 m urea, 2% (v/v) 2-mercaptoethanol] and separated by 15% SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Proteins in the gel were electroblotted to a nitrocellulose membrane and radioactivity on the blot was detected and quantified by a Molecular Imager FX (Bio-Rad).
