!~ABS~! Background: Plants produce leaf and flower primordia from a specialized tissue called the shoot apical meristem (SAM). Genetic studies have identified a large number of genes that affect various aspects of primordium development including positioning, growth, and differentiation. So far, however, a detailed understanding of the spatio-temporal sequence of events leading to primordium development has not been established. Results: We use confocal imaging of green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter genes in living plants to monitor the expression patterns of multiple proteins and genes involved in flower primordial developmental processes. By monitoring the expression and polarity of PINFORMED1 (PIN1), the auxin efflux facilitator, and the expression of the auxin-responsive reporter DR5, we reveal stereotypical PIN1 polarity changes which, together with auxin induction experiments, suggest that cycles of auxin build-up and depletion accompany, and may direct, different stages of primordium development. Imaging of multiple GFP-protein fusions shows that these dynamics also correlate with the specification of primordial boundary domains, organ polarity axes, and the sites of floral meristem initiation. Conclusions: These results provide new insight into auxin transport dynamics during primordial positioning and suggest a role for auxin transport in influencing primordial cell type.
!~RES~! Previous work has indicated that primordium positioning is mediated by localized auxin concentrations that are in turn patterned by the activity of the auxin efflux mediator PIN1 [ CITATION ]. In the meristem, the PIN1 protein is expressed predominantly in the epidermis and provasculature. In cells located in the vicinity of incipient primordia, PIN1 protein is localized laterally in the plasma membranes closest to sites of subsequent primordial emergence [ CITATION ]. To investigate PIN1 dynamics, we used confocal-based live imaging of a functional pPIN1::PIN1-GFP fusion protein. We assessed PIN1 polarity by identifying arcs of signal in low-resolution images that we found, by analysis at high resolution, to correspond to signal within cell corners ( CITATION ) and therefore to indicate the direction of auxin efflux. Overall, our observed pattern of pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression and polarity resembles previous immunological results [ CITATION ], except that we find striking patterns of PIN1 polarity and expression throughout the meristem epidermis that change according to the stage of primordial development occurring at different positions. For convenience, we use “P” to designate primordia that have clearly grown out from the meristem, while “I” designates incipient primordia (assessed by position) before the onset of rapid growth. Both primordia and incipient primordia are numbered in order of appearance, with P 1 designating the youngest primordium and I 1 designating the oldest incipient primordium. From examining pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression and polarity in primordia of different ages in multiple plants, a stereotypical pattern of activity can be discerned ( CITATION A ; rotated and enlarged views of CITATION A are shown in CITATION D–1K, 1M, and 1O). Before an incipient primordium is first marked by pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression, polarity at this location (I 4 in CITATION D and 1G) is directed from one adjacent site (P 2 in CITATION D and magnified view in CITATION G) toward the other adjacent site (I 1 in CITATION D and 1G). A site is first marked by relatively high levels of pPIN1::PIN1-GFP (I 3 in CITATION E and 1H) when PIN1-GFP polarity is directed toward this site from both adjacent sites (P 1 and P 3 in CITATION E and 1H). At this stage, pPIN1::PIN1-GFP is limited to the epidermis (compare expression at I 3 position in CITATION A and 1C). At slightly later stages (I 2 and I 1 ), pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression levels increase (compare positions I 2 and I 1 to I 3 in CITATION A), and PIN1-GFP polarity becomes directed toward these sites from three adjacent primordia (P 2, P 3 , and P 5 for I 1 in CITATION F and 1I). pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression in subepidermal layers also becomes detectable at these stages (positions corresponding to I 2 and I 1 in CITATION C). As primordial growth starts to accelerate (P 1 ), PIN1-GFP in epidermal cells located adaxial to the primordium reverses polarity from being directed toward the primordium to being directed away from the primordium and back toward the meristem center and adjacent regions (P 1 in CITATION J, compare to previous stage I 1 in CITATION I). Subsequently, expression becomes reduced within the primordial epidermis (arrows in CITATION K and 1M) but starts to reappear again by stage two of flower development [ CITATION ] (arrow in CITATION O). In subepidermal cells below the primordium, expression becomes restricted to the presumed provascular tissues (arrowheads in CITATION L, 1N, and 1P). To better understand changes in PIN1 expression and polarity, we conducted time-lapse confocal imaging of growing, pPIN1::PIN1-GFP -expressing meristems. Time-lapse images confirm the stereotypical pattern of expression build-up followed by decrease at primordial positions as well as the temporal correlation between reversals at older primordia (asterisks in CITATION , in the CITATION available with this article online) and newly localized pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression at incipient primordia (arrows in CITATION and CITATION ). However, we also find that pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression shifts relative to the underlying cells in directions that are correlated with PIN1 polarity. After PIN1-GFP reversal, GFP signal moves from the site of reversal toward adjacent regions as well as toward the primordium tip, leaving a zone of low expression where the reversal originally took place (asterisk in CITATION ). The adjacent regions that subsequently show increased expression correspond to sites of incipient primordia ( CITATION and CITATION ). These observations show that PIN1 behavior associated with flower primordium development can be divided into two phases. Initially, the establishment of PIN1 polarity toward cells destined to form an incipient primordium is correlated with a reversal in PIN1 polarity in cells surrounding an older adjacent primordium. PIN1 expression levels then increase in cells located at the polarity focus, and this is correlated with further PIN1 reversals in adjacent primordia. The second phase is characterized by a subsequent, rapid reversal in polarity that occurs predominantly in adaxial cells surrounding the primordium. As this occurs, pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression also shifts abaxially, to form a new focus of expression at the primordium tip, and adaxially, to adjacent positions destined to form new primordia. Microarray data indicating that PIN1 may be auxin regulated in pin1-1 meristems (within 30 min of treatment, data not shown) as well as the consistent correlation between PIN1-GFP polarity and pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression level prompted us to investigate PIN1 transcription in response to auxin using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). We found that treatment of dissected wild-type inflorescences with 100 μM indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) resulted in PIN1 expression levels increasing by a factor of 2.3 (2.2–2.3) after 60 min ( CITATION A ). A stronger response occurred after treatment of pin1-1 apices with 5 mM IAA when, after 30 min, we detected an upregulation of PIN1 by a factor of 3.2 (2.9–3.5) ( CITATION A). Although these exogenous IAA concentrations are much higher than those thought to occur physiologically, similar exogenous concentrations of IAA are required to induce a consistent growth response in both wild-type and mutant apical meristems [ CITATION ], suggesting that high exogenous IAA concentrations applied to shoot tissues are diluted to physiologically relevant concentrations in vivo. To examine the effects of exogenous auxin on the PIN1 expression pattern in more detail, we conducted time-lapse confocal imaging of pPIN1::PIN1-GFP -expressing meristems treated with 5 mM 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), a form of auxin that can diffuse into cells. We were able to detect an increase in expression beginning after 2 hr and increasing up to 6 hr post treatment in primordial cells away from which PIN1 polarity was directed, presumably after reversal (arrows, CITATION B and 2C). Expression also increased in subepidermal cells located at primordial boundaries (arrows, CITATION D and 2E). We also tested whether the pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression pattern was sensitive to the auxin transport inhibitor N-1-naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA). After treating pPIN1::PIN1-GFP -expressing meristems for 6 hr with 100 μM NPA, we observed increasing delocalization of pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression that by 14 hr had clearly spread to subepidermal cells surrounding the presumed vascular tissue that initially lacked expression ( CITATION F–2I). These experiments indicate that the PIN1 expression pattern is dependent on the distribution of auxin in the meristem, which in turn depends on auxin transport. Since pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression levels are also correlated with the observed changes in PIN1-GFP polarity, our data suggests that changes in PIN1 polarity associated with different stages of primordial development drive dynamic changes in auxin concentration, which then influence PIN1 transcription. To gain further evidence of a correlation between auxin concentration dynamics and PIN1 expression and polarity, we visualized the activity of the DR5rev auxin-responsive promoter driving three tandem copies of VENUS, a rapidly folding YFP variant [ CITATION ], fused to a nuclear localization sequence, here termed pDR5rev::3XVENUS-N7 , in combination with pPIN1::PIN1-GFP . As predicted, we found that local upregulation of both markers occurred simultaneously at young sites predicted to form primordia (arrowheads in CITATION J and 2K). In contrast to pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression, which decreases in primordia after PIN1-GFP polarity reverses toward the meristem in adaxial cells, pDR5rev:3XVENUS-N7 expression persists after reversal (compare circled area in CITATION M to corresponding region in CITATION L). However, by time-lapse imaging, we found that these pDR5rev::3XVENUS-N7 -expressing cells either corresponded to or were daughters of cells expressing pDR5rev::3XVENUS-N7 before reversal ( CITATION L, circled cells in CITATION M), suggesting the possibility that persistent expression might be due to VENUS-N7 perdurance. To test this hypothesis, we selectively radiated cells expressing pDR5rev::3XVENUS-N7 at primordial positions with 514 nm laser light until VENUS fluorescence became undetectable. We then assessed the recovery of fluorescence in these cells over time. Of five meristems tested, three showed fluorescence recovery specifically in cells within incipient primordia but not in cells located in adjacent older primordia ( CITATION N–2P), while two plants showed no recovery at either type of position. Overall, these results support the proposal that transcription from the DR5 promoter is active during the early stages of primordial specification and that, like pPIN1::PIN1-GFP , DR5 expression decreases around the time that PIN1-GFP polarity reverses. De novo expression in cells unrelated to those expressing pDR5rev::3XVENUS-N7 before PIN1-GFP reversal was detected at a later stage (arrowheads in CITATION M), again correlated with the reappearance of pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression (see also CITATION A and 1O). To summarize, both the pDR5rev::3XVENUS-N7 and pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression data support the proposal that reversals in PIN1 polarity correlate with and are likely to cause changes in auxin levels within developing primordia. The STM gene is required both for meristem formation and maintenance [ CITATION ]. In situ hybridization analysis shows that STM is expressed throughout most of the inflorescence meristem but is specifically downregulated at positions where specification of the cryptic floral bract is thought to occur [ CITATION ]. To determine when and where STM is downregulated relative to PIN1, we visualized an STM-VENUS fusion protein under the control of the STM promoter, designated pSTM::STM-VENUS , in combination with pPIN1::PIN1-GFP . The overall expression pattern of the STM marker is similar to that found by in situ hybridization analysis with expression encompassing most of the meristem. Examination of meristems expressing both pSTM::STM-VENUS and pPIN1::PIN1-GFP reveals that pSTM::STM-VENUS expression is downregulated at locations where pPIN1::PIN1-GFP is upregulated ( CITATION A and 3B ). This complementary pattern starts to become apparent at the earliest position marked by localized pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression and polarity, showing that STM marks primordial positions with similar timing to PIN1 ( CITATION A and 3B). The reduction in pSTM::STM-VENUS expression in the vicinity of high pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression is also evident several cell layers below the meristem epidermis in regions corresponding to the presumptive provascular cells ( CITATION C). We also note that pSTM::STM-VENUS expression strengthens in a boundary-like domain abaxial to those cells in which PIN1 is directed toward the meristem and away from the primordium (after reversal). This is most noticeable in transgenic lines in which pSTM::STM-VENUS expression levels are low ( CITATION F marked “b”). Lastly, we also note a reduction in pSTM::STM-VENUS levels toward the meristem center relative to the periphery in cells below the L2 ( CITATION C). Previous work has shown that the CUC1 , CUC2 , and CUC3 genes are required for proper organ separation [ CITATION ] and that, in mutants in which auxin patterning is disrupted, the expression patterns of CUC1 and CUC2 are also disrupted, suggesting a link between auxin patterning and CUC gene function [ CITATION ]. To start to investigate the temporal and spatial relationship between the CUC genes and PIN1-mediated auxin transport patterns, we fused the CUC2 coding region to VENUS and expressed it under the CUC2 promoter, designated pCUC2::CUC2-VENUS , together with pPIN1::PIN1-GFP . pCUC2::CUC2-VENUS is expressed in boundary-like domains surrounding primordia in a pattern similar to that previously reported from in situ hybridization experiments [ CITATION ] ( CITATION D). However, weak expression is also detected in the epidermal cells of the central zone (CZ) (arrow in CITATION D). Like pSTM::STM-VENUS , we found pCUC2::CUC2-VENUS to be downregulated at pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression and polarity foci (arrowheads in CITATION D). This downregulation seems to occur at an earlier stage than pSTM::STM-VENUS and is more extensive. Like pSTM::STM-VENUS , pCUC2::CUC2-VENUS is specifically upregulated in those cells near primordia from which pPIN1::PIN1-GFP polarity was directed after its reversal ( CITATION E). These data suggest that both CUC2 and STM are regulated in a similar manner, although with different timing or sensitivity. Furthermore, they show strikingly complementary expression patterns compared to PIN1 both at pPIN1::PIN1-GFP foci and in boundary regions from which pPIN1::PIN1-GFP is directed. The REV gene is involved in regulating axillary meristem formation, organ polarity, and meristem size and is expressed in a similar pattern to other related members of the HD-ZIP family of transcription factors such as PHABULOSA and PHAVOLUTA [ CITATION ]. It is also thought to mark primordia at a particularly young stage [ CITATION ]. To monitor REV expression dynamics, we constructed a functional REV-VENUS fusion and expressed it under the REV promoter. We found the pREV::REV-VENUS transgene to be expressed in an identical manner to the reported endogenous transcription pattern [ CITATION ]. pREV::REV-VENUS expression is present in the upper layers of the CZ of the meristem as well as in finger-like domains extending out to developing primordia ( CITATION A ). pREV::REV-VENUS signal is first evidently associated with primordial positions between zero and one plastochron after pPIN1::PIN1-GFP first localizes, and the expression domain is contiguous with expression in the CZ (I 2 in CITATION A and 4B). However, before this, newly localized pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression always appears adjacent to pREV::REV-VENUS -expressing cells in the CZ (I 3 in CITATION A, corresponding position in CITATION B and 4C). As pPIN1::PIN1-GFP signal increases at primordial initiation sites, the pREV::REV-VENUS expression domain extends outward to overlap with the adaxial half of the pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression domain (I 1 in CITATION A, corresponding position in CITATION B and 4D). This pattern of overlap also extends below the epidermis along the presumptive provascular cells marked by newly localized pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression ( CITATION D). At approximately the same time that pPIN1::PIN1-GFP polarity reverses and expression levels decrease in subepidermal cells, pREV::REV-VENUS expression is lost from the cells located between the primordium and the CZ, thus isolating REV expression from the CZ (P 1 in CITATION A, corresponding position in CITATION B and 4E). To summarize, pREV::REV-VENUS expression extends halfway into the pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression domain from nearby adjacent CZ cells that already express pREV::REV-VENUS . Adaxial, localized pREV::REV-VENUS expression associated with pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression is then maintained during primordial outgrowth and separation from the CZ. To determine whether PIN1 expression also marks the adaxial boundary of abaxially expressed genes, we examined pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression in combination with nuclear localized dsRED under the control of the FIL promoter. FIL is a member of the YABBY gene family of transcription factors and functions to specify abaxial cell types and to promote flower development and lateral organ expansion [ CITATION ]. pFIL::dsRED-N7 first marks primordia between one and two plastochrons later than upregulation of pPIN1::PIN1-GFP (I 1 and I 2 in CITATION F, arrows in CITATION G). At inception, pFIL::dsRED-N7 expression is detected abaxial to pPIN1::PIN1-GFP in the two layers of cells located between the epidermis and pPIN1::PIN1-GFP -marked provasculature ( CITATION H). Slightly later, pFIL::dsRED-N7 extends to the epidermis and into the pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression domain ( CITATION I). At later stages, pFIL::dsRED-N7 expression almost entirely overlaps pPIN1::PIN1-GFP in the primordium ( CITATION J). To investigate this more thoroughly, we covisualized pFIL::dsRED-N7 , pREV::REV-VENUS , and pPIN1::PIN1-GFP together (represented in red, green, and blue, respectively, in CITATION K–4O). We found that, after pFIL::dsRED-N7 expression first expands (approximately the same stage as shown in CITATION I), both pREV::REV-VENUS and pFIL::dsRED-N7 are coexpressed in a number of cells centered within the pPIN1::PIN1-GFP expression domain (P 1 in CITATION K–4O). These data confirm that both pREV::REV-VENUS and pFIL::dsRED-N7 are initially expressed asymmetrically relative to pPIN1::PIN1-GFP , showing that pPIN1::PIN1-GFP marks a domain between abaxial and adaxial cell identities at primordial initiation. Soon after, as the expression domains of REV and FIL expand into the anlagen, their domains partially overlap during subsequent development. The LEAFY ( LFY ) gene encodes a transcription factor involved in conferring floral meristem identity on primordia that develop from the inflorescence meristem. In lfy mutants, secondary inflorescence meristems subtended by floral bracts frequently develop in the place of flowers [ CITATION ]. To understand where and when floral meristem identity is specified as marked by LFY expression, we examined the expression of the LFY promoter driving endoplasmic-reticulum (ER)-localized GFP in combination with pFIL::dsRED-N7 . We detect the onset of pLFY::GFP-ER expression approximately two plastochrons later than pFIL::dsRED-N7 in a few adaxial cells abutting the pFIL::dsRED-N7 expression domain ( CITATION A and 5B ). By one plastochron later, pLFY::GFP-ER expression is much stronger and broader, and this trend continues during later stages ( CITATION A and 5B–5D). pLFY::GFP-ER expression is also sharply bounded on the adaxial side of the primordium by cells predicted to express the boundary marker CUC2. If this were so, we would expect a gap to form between the FIL and CUC2 expression domains at the time LFY expression initiates. Visualization of pCUC2::3XVENUS-N7 and pFIL::dsRED-N7 revealed that, although the expression of these markers initially abuts ( CITATION E and 5F), later during development, a discernable gap in expression forms between their domains. This gap continues to expand during floral meristem development in a manner similar to the expansion of the pLFY::GFP-ER expression pattern ( CITATION H), suggesting that LFY expression initiates specifically in the region between the FIL and CUC2 expression domains and that the FIL and CUC2 expression domains move apart, possibly through the proliferation of cells within the developing floral meristem. Since pREV::REV-VENUS expression also abuts pFIL::dsRED-N7 expression, we examined pREV::REV-VENUS expression during stage two of flower development [ CITATION ] and found that its expression also spreads adaxially in a similar manner to pLFY:GFP-ER (compare CITATION C and 5I, 5M and 5N). This is further correlated with an expansion of pPIN1::PIN1-GFP ( CITATION J) and pDR5rev::3XVENUS-N7 expression ( CITATION L). Although pSTM::STM-VENUS expression is still restricted to an adaxial boundary domain during early stage two of flower development, before stage three, pSTM::STM-VENUS expression also expands rapidly (compare CITATION O and 5P). To summarize, the pCUC2::CUC2-VENUS and pFIL::dsRED-N7 expression domains are located adjacent to each other, with the boundary between these domains corresponding to the region where pLFY::GFP-ER expression later initiates. pLFY::GFP-ER expression then expands as cells proliferate to form the flower meristem, and this is correlated with an expansion of pREV::REV-VENUS and pSTM::STM-VENUS expression into the primordium as well as an increase in primordial pDR5rev::3XVENUS-N7 expression.
!~MM~! The pPIN1::PIN1-GFP fusion construct was made by inserting mGFP5 (a gift from J. Hasseloff) into a unique XhoI site located in a 8763 bp genomic DNA fragment obtained by PCR containing the PIN1 gene (3506 bp upstream of ATG to 2181 bp downstream of the stop codon). This fragment was then transformed into plants heterozygous for the pin1-4 mutation using the pART27 binary transformation vector [ CITATION ]. Functionality was confirmed by identifying several T3 families in which the wild-type phenotype strictly cosegregated with the transgene. 3XVENUS-N7 was constructed by first PCR amplifying both VENUS [ CITATION ] and N7, a DNA-fragment-encoding nuclear-localization protein sequence [ CITATION ], with restriction sites and cloning them in frame to yield BamHI-VENUS-4Xala-N7-XbaI (pPD19). The BamHI-XbaI fragment from pPD19 was then subcloned to pBJ36 [ CITATION ] to yield pPD31. Separately, VENUS was also PCR amplified and cloned to pCR2.1-TOPO, flanked by BamHI and BglII sites (pPD30). The BamHI-BglII fragment from pPD30 was then ligated to BamHI-linearized pPD31 and screened for clones with multiple insertions to yield 3XVENUS-4XAlanine-N7 (pPD35). pDR5rev::3XVENUS-N7 was constructed by cloning the DR5rev promoter [ CITATION ] upstream of the 3XVENUS-N7 coding region, and a NotI fragment containing the reporter construct was then transferred to pMLBART [ CITATION ] and transformed into pPIN1::PIN1-GFP -expressing plants. For constructing both the pSTM::STM-VENUS - and pREV::REV-VENUS -translational fusions, a version of BJ36 containing a 9X Alanine linker followed by VENUS was made. For STM, a full-length STM cDNA was cloned and inserted in-frame next to the Alanine linker. A 5.76 kb region of upstream regulatory sequence was then inserted upstream of the cDNA. A NotI fragment containing this reporter was cloned into pMLBART and transformed into pPIN1::PIN1-GFP as described above. The ability of this construct to rescue the stm mutant phenotype has not been tested. pREV::REV-VENUS was constructed by amplifying a 7972 bp genomic DNA fragment containing 3779 bp of sequence upstream of the ATG as well as the whole genomic coding region into BJ36 containing 9X Alanine VENUS and transformed into Landsberg erecta plants expressing pPIN1::PIN1-GFP and rev-1 homozygous mutants. Although the phenotype of transformed rev-1 plants was variable, many selected T1 plants exhibited a wild-type phenotype. We used a CUC2 promoter reporter consisting of 3.2 kb of 5′ regulatory region fused to the 3XVENUS-N7 reporter as described above. pCUC2::CUC2-VENUS was constructed by switching both the CaMV 35S promoter for the 3.2 kb CUC2 upstream regulatory sequence and VENUS for mGFP5 in a previously reported 35S ::CUC2-GFP construct [ CITATION ]. Subsequently, a 9X Alanine linker was introduced as a translational fusion into the PstI site between CUC2 and VENUS and transformed as described above. Functionality of this fusion protein has not been tested. The pFIL::dsRED-N7 marker was constructed by fusing dsRED Express (Clontech) to the nuclear localizing sequence N7 as described for VENUS-N7 above. DNA (5867 bp) upstream of the ATG start was then cloned upstream of dsRED-N7 in BJ36 and transformed into pPIN1::PIN1-GFP -expressing plants as described above. pLFY::GFP-ER was made by amplifying a 2288 bp fragment upstream of the LFY coding region and inserting it upstream of the mGFP5-ER coding region (a gift from J. Hasseloff) in the pZP222 vector [ CITATION ]. For quantitative real-time PCR analysis, inflorescences were dissected and older flowers removed. The inflorescences were then submerged in either 1% dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) or 100 μM IAA (Sigma) dissolved in 1% DMSO. For treatment of pin1-1 apices, an auxin paste was applied made from 5 mM IAA, 1% DMSO in lanolin (Sigma), or a mock treatment of 1% DMSO in lanolin. For live imaging, we found that 1% DMSO alone altered PIN1::GFP expression, and so both IAA and NAA (Sigma) were dissolved in 1 M KOH to make 0.5 M IAA or NAA stock, which was then diluted to 5 mM in H 2 O. A 1 M stock of NPA (Chem Service) dissolved in DMSO was diluted in H 2 O to give a 100 μM treatment solution. Approximately 10 μl of solution was added to the meristem after each imaging session every 2 hr. Each treatment experiment was repeated at least three times with mock treatment controls. Total RNA was extracted using RNAeasy columns (QIAGEN) and subjected to on-column DNase treatment according to the manufacturer’s instructions. RNA (1 μg) was then reverse transcribed using oligo dT (20-mer) and SuperScript II Rnase H Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The reaction mixture was diluted to 30 μl, and 1 μl was used per real-time PCR reaction. Each primer pair was designed to cross introns in order to eliminate the possibility of genomic DNA amplification. The primers for PIN1 were 5′-ACAAAACGACGCAGGCTAAG-3′ and 5′-AGCTGGCATTTCAATGTTCC-3′. We used both the ACTIN2 and ACTIN8 genes as internal controls by using the following primers that amplify both genes 5′-GGTAACATTGTGCTCAGTGGTGG-3′ and 5′-AACGACCTTAATCTTCATGCTGC-3′(3). Each PCR reaction contained 12.5 μl of SYBR Green PCR Master kit containing Hot Start Taq polymerase (Perkin-Elmer Applied Biosystems), 3 μl of 2.5 μM primers, 1 μl of cDNA, and 7.5 μl of H 2 0 for a reaction volume of 25 μl. Reactions were performed in triplicate on a GeneAmp 7500 thermocycler (Perkin-Elmer Applied Biosystems). Data was analyzed using the 2 −ΔΔ C T method [ CITATION ]. The amplification efficiencies for the ACTIN2/8 and PIN1 primers were found to be approximately equal. The data were collected from three independent treatments and are expressed as a mean fold change and range in brackets corresponding to the mean −ΔΔ C T ± SEM converted to a fold-change value. Inflorescence meristems were prepared for live imaging as described [ CITATION ]. L er plants expressing the GFP markers were generated by transforming a chosen pPIN1::PIN1-GFP -transgenic line with all other markers. Triple-marker combinations were generated by crossing the double-marker plants and screening the F2 families. For high-resolution images, fixed stained tissue was prepared by applying 10 μg ml −1 FM4-64 (Molecular Probes) to intact inflorescences. After 30 min, inflorescences were detached and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde containing 0.1% Tween 20 and 0.1% Triton X-100 at 4°C for 1 hr. For whole mounts, mature buds were dissected away and the meristem immersed in 50% glycerol under a coverslip ready for imaging using a Zeiss Plan-Apochromat 63×/1.40 NA objective. All imaging was done using a Zeiss 510LSM Meta using a water-dipping 63× objective with the plant temporarily under water. For time-lapse imaging of GFP alone, we used a 488 nm laser line together with a HFT KP 650 (short-pass) main dichroic and a 505 nm long-pass filter. The laser was attenuated to 7%, and we used 0.7 s scans of a 512 × 512 pixel frame. Stacks of 30 sections spaced approximately 1.5 μm apart were collected every 2 hr. In between imaging, the water was decanted and the boxes containing the plants placed in a growth cabinet. Non-time-lapse images of GFP alone were collected as above, except we used a 505–550 nm band-pass filter and a higher laser setting and smaller pinhole. To image GFP and dsRED together, we used multitracking in line-scan mode and a 488/543 main dichroic. We used a 545 secondary dichroic to split the emission in conjunction with a 543 nm laser line and 560–610 nm band-pass filter for dsRED, and the 488 nm laser line and a 505–550 nm band pass filter for GFP. The conditions for imaging GFP/VENUS combinations depended on the relative strengths of the markers. For strong VENUS with GFP, both fluorescent proteins were excited using the 488 nm laser line, and the emission was separated using the Meta spectral analyser. For weaker VENUS signal, we used multitracking in frame mode. VENUS was excited using the 514 nm laser line in conjunction with a 530–600 band-pass filter. GFP was excited with the 477 nm laser line and collected using a 545 secondary dichroic in conjunction with a 505–530 band-pass filter. For triple combinations of GFP, VENUS, and dsRED, we used frame multitracking. The settings were as for GFP/VENUS multitracking except with an additional track for dsRED using the 543 nm laser line in conjunction with a 543 secondary dichroic to separate the excitation light and 560–610 band-pass filter. Images of five meristems were recorded prior to bleaching. Then, using the Zeiss LSM software, two regions of interest corresponding to pDR5rev::3XVENUS-N7 -expressing cells located in incipient and older primordia were selected in each of the meristems. These regions were then continuously scanned using the 514 nm laser line at 80% power until signal could not be detected using the settings initially used for imaging the prebleached meristem. After allowing 7 hr for recovery, we reimaged the meristems to assess fluorescence recovery. Visualization of volume renderings was performed using Zeiss LSM software and Amira (Mercury Computer Systems). At high resolution, the subcellular localization of PIN1-GFP could be assessed either by direct visualization or by analysis with image-processing software specifically developed for this purpose (H. Jonsson, M.G.H., B. Shapiro, E.M.M., and E. Mjolsness, unpublished data). Analysis of meristems imaged in this manner confirms that, in general, arcs of signal visible in approximately two thirds of meristem epidermal cells at lower resolution in 3D projections corresponded to PIN1-GFP protein localization within cell corners as shown in CITATION . 3D projections give a clearer indication of lateral subcellular PIN1-GFP polarity in the meristem compared to 2D optical transverse sections because the viewing angle can be manipulated to be normal to the curved epidermal surface. The pattern of PIN1-GFP polarity and expression associated with different stages of primordium development shown in CITATION was representative of data gathered from greater than 50 plants, as assessed visually.
