!~ABS~! Peroxins are genetically defined as proteins necessary for peroxisome biogenesis. By screening for reduced response to indole-3-butyric acid, which is metabolized to active auxin in peroxisomes, we isolated an Arabidopsis thaliana peroxin4 (pex4) mutant. This mutant displays sucrose-dependent seedling development and reduced lateral root production, characteristics of plant peroxisome malfunction. We used yeast two-hybrid analysis to determine that PEX4, an apparent ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme, interacts with a previously unidentified Arabidopsis protein, PEX22. A pex4 pex22 double mutant enhanced pex4 defects, confirming that PEX22 is a peroxin. Expression of both Arabidopsis genes together complemented yeast pex4 or pex22 mutant defects, whereas expression of either gene individually failed to rescue the corresponding yeast mutant. Therefore, it is likely that the Arabidopsis proteins can function similarly to the yeast PEX4–PEX22 complex, with PEX4 ubiquitinating substrates and PEX22 tethering PEX4 to the peroxisome. However, the severe sucrose dependence of the pex4 pex22 mutant is not accompanied by correspondingly strong defects in peroxisomal matrix protein import, suggesting that this peroxin pair may have novel plant targets in addition to those important in fungi. Isocitrate lyase is stabilized in pex4 pex22, indicating that PEX4 and PEX22 may be important during the remodeling of peroxisome matrix contents as glyoxysomes transition to leaf peroxisomes.
!~RES~! Response to the hormone IBA is a facile assay of plant peroxisomal function, as the peroxisomal conversion of IBA to IAA inhibits root elongation. Therefore, certain mutants defective in peroxisomal processes are IBA-resistant, with longer roots on IBA than in wild-type controls (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Using positional information, we localized the defect in a previously isolated IBA-response mutant (CITATION) to a region north of the chromosome 5 centromere (Figure 1A). We identified a gene in this interval (At5g25760) encoding a protein ∼35% identical to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Pex4p, a UBC enzyme (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Because yeast pex4 mutants have peroxisome-defective phenotypes, we hypothesized that disruption of the Arabidopsis protein could reduce IBA responses. We sequenced mutant DNA from this region and identified a C-to-T mutation at position 532 (where 1 is the A of the initiator ATG), changing a conserved Pro residue to Leu (Figure 1B). [[FIGURE]] As shown in Figure 2A, pex4-1 is resistant to a range of IBA concentrations. As the mutant retains wild-type sensitivity to IAA (Figure 2B), the mutation appears to specifically disrupt IBA responses rather than general auxin responses. To confirm that the mutation in PEX4 is responsible for the IBA-response defect, we transformed pex4-1 plants with genomic PEX4 driven by its endogenous promoter (pBIN-PEX4g) or a PEX4 cDNA driven by the constitutive 35S promoter (35S-PEX4c). Lines homozygous for either construct displayed restored IBA responsiveness (Figure 2), indicating that we had identified the defective gene in the mutant. [[FIGURE]] Like other auxins, exogenous IBA stimulates lateral root formation (CITATION; CITATION). Endogenous IBA also promotes root branching, as suggested by the decreased lateral root initiation of mutants with IBA-response defects grown on unsupplemented medium (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). pex4-1 is resistant to the stimulatory effects of applied IBA on lateral root initiation and has fewer lateral roots in the absence of hormone (Figure 2C), indicating that endogenous pathways are disrupted. Both defects were restored by introducing wild-type PEX4 into the mutant (Figure 2C). In addition to IBA resistance, mutants defective in peroxisomal processes often display sucrose dependence during seedling establishment (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION; CITATION, CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), because peroxisomal β-oxidation of fatty acids during germination provides energy before photosynthetic energy production. We found that pex4-1 seedlings have substantial growth defects in the absence of exogenous sucrose, reflected in reduced root elongation in the light and hypocotyl elongation in the dark (Figure 3). These defects are largely restored by sucrose supplementation (Figure 3). The pex4-1 sucrose dependence was accompanied by slowed utilization of the primary seed storage fatty acid (C20:1) in mutant seedlings (CITATION). Unlike some peroxisomal mutants (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), adult pex4-1 plants have wild-type growth, fertility, and pigmentation, indicating no obvious defects in peroxisomal photorespiration. [[FIGURE]] To visualize peroxisomal matrix protein import in pex4-1, we examined fluorescence localization in mutant plants expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) targeted to peroxisomes by either PTS1 or PTS2 sequences. In the wild type, fluorescence from lines expressing either GFP construct is punctate (Figure 4A), consistent with peroxisomal localization (CITATION; CITATION). The pex4-1 mutant displayed a wild-type fluorescence pattern with both PTS1- and PTS2-tagged GFP (Figure 4A), suggesting that at least some peroxisome matrix import occurs and that peroxisomes are of approximately normal size and numbers in the pex4-1 mutant. [[FIGURE]] A second method of assessing peroxisomal matrix protein import is direct analysis of PTS2 proteins, because the N-terminal PTS2 is cleaved after peroxisomal import. Examining the ratio of full-length to processed protein can reveal defects in PTS2 protein import. For example, in the peroxisome defective2 mutant, which is defective in the peroxisomal membrane protein PEX14 required for matrix protein import (CITATION), both processed and unprocessed thiolase are visible on immunoblots (CITATION). To directly observe the extent of PTS2-GFP cleavage in pex4-1, we examined protein extracts using immunoblot analysis with a GFP antibody. We found that the PTS2 was removed from PTS2-GFP similarly in the wild type and pex4-1 (Figure 4B), consistent with the apparent peroxisomal localization of this protein in both lines (Figure 4A). We also used an anti-thiolase antibody (CITATION) to examine the targeting of endogenous thiolase. In the pex4-1 mutant, we found most thiolase processed into the smaller form, as in the wild type, but we also detected some unprocessed thiolase not visible in the wild-type sample (Figures 4B and 4C). These results suggest that the pex4-1 mutant imports and processes thiolase nearly as efficiently as the wild type. Both PTS2-GFP and thiolase were inefficiently processed in the pex5-1 mutant (Figures 4B and 4C), which carries a missense mutation in the PTS1 receptor (CITATION). This result is consistent with the previously reported failure of PTS2 targeting in pex5 mutants: PEX5 and the PTS2 receptor PEX7 physically interact (CITATION), and PTS2 import by PEX7 requires PEX5 (CITATION; CITATION). The pex5-1 missense mutation falls within the proposed PEX7 binding domain, and PTS2 import is disrupted in the mutant, as visualized by mislocalized PTS2-GFP and incomplete thiolase processing (CITATION). We also found a thiolase-processing defect in pex6-1 (CITATION) (Figure 4C). PEX6 is an ATPase that in yeast facilitates receptor recycling (CITATION). Several peroxisome-defective mutants, including P. pastoris pex4, have reduced levels of the matrix protein receptor PEX5 (CITATION; CITATION). We visualized PEX5 on immunoblots using a PEX5 peptide antibody (CITATION) as an ∼90-kD band. To confirm the specificity of our antibody, we isolated a T-DNA insertion mutant in PEX5 from the Salk Institute collection (CITATION). This pex5-10 mutant has a T-DNA inserted in exon 5, probably causing a null allele. Indeed, we did not detect intact PEX5 protein in the pex5-10 mutant (Figure 4D). pex5-10 has a strong peroxisome-defective phenotype, including an absolute requirement for sucrose during early development, high seedling lethality, and delayed development (B.K. Zolman and B. Bartel, unpublished data). The pex5-10 individuals that develop into adult plants have reduced seed production (B.K. Zolman and B. Bartel, unpublished data). Consistent with a severe defect in peroxisome matrix import, thiolase was largely unprocessed in pex5-10 seedlings (Figure 4C). We found that PEX5 levels in pex4-1 are similar to those in the wild type (Figure 4D). PEX5 levels also appear unaffected in the pex5-1 missense mutant but are reduced in an Arabidopsis pex6 mutant (Figure 4D), as reported previously (CITATION). Thus, although pex4-1 has growth phenotypes suggesting greatly reduced peroxisome functioning, pex4-1 defects in peroxisomal matrix protein import are modest at best and do not seem to be accompanied by reduced PEX5 levels. This molecular phenotype may be limited because the pex4-1 missense allele retains partial PEX4 function and/or because Arabidopsis PEX4 has important roles in addition to matrix protein import. Arabidopsis and yeast PEX4 proteins lack peroxisome-targeting signals or apparent membrane-spanning regions. Yeast Pex4p is tethered to the peroxisome by the Pex22p membrane protein (CITATION). Analysis of several sequenced genomes has not revealed a PEX22 candidate in any plant species. We conducted a yeast two-hybrid experiment to identify PEX4-interacting proteins, which might include the Arabidopsis PEX22, ubiquitin protein ligases, ubiquitinated substrates, or other components of the import machinery. Using PEX4 as bait to probe an Arabidopsis cDNA library, we screened 2,665,000 transformants and identified 42 putative interacting proteins that conferred growth on medium lacking His. A secondary screen on medium lacking adenine reduced the number of potential PEX4 interactors to 21. Sequence analysis of the prey plasmids revealed that the clones represented five independent cDNAs from a single gene, At3g21865. The five clones were truncated at different 5′ positions, but each was in frame with the Gal4p activation domain and had the potential to encode the complete C terminus of At3g21865 (Figure 5). Analysis of the predicted At3g21865 protein using SMART (CITATION) revealed one potential transmembrane domain near the N terminus, from amino acids 45 to 62 (Figure 5). None of the cDNA clones obtained in the two-hybrid experiment contained this region, likely because transmembrane domains can interfere in the assay. [[FIGURE]] Additional analysis of this PEX4-interacting protein revealed no recognized domains. Although the protein has apparent plant homologs (Figure 5C), none of these are characterized, and there were no obvious homologs outside the plant lineage. We hypothesized that At3g21865 might be the Arabidopsis PEX22 protein. Although the Arabidopsis protein is only 6 to 12% identical to characterized yeast Pex22p proteins, they have comparable sizes and predicted topologies, including similarly positioned N-terminal transmembrane domains (Figure 5C). To determine whether this candidate PEX22 protein was indeed a peroxin, we sought a loss-of-function mutation in At3g21865. Although no T-DNA insertions in publicly available collections disrupt the 2.2-kb primary transcript of this gene, we isolated a mutant with a T-DNA insert near the coding region from the Salk Institute collection (CITATION). The T-DNA in this pex22-1 mutant is inserted at position −107 relative to the initiator ATG (the 5′ untranslated region is 103 nucleotides). Because of the PEX4 interaction, we anticipated that reduced levels of this protein might result in defective IBA responses similar to those of pex4-1. However, characterization of this mutant revealed wild-type responses to IBA in root elongation (Figure 6A) and lateral root assays (Figure 6B) and normal growth in the absence of sucrose in both the dark (Figure 6C) and light (data not shown). In addition, the mutant had normal levels of the PEX5 matrix protein receptor (Figure 4D) and no obvious defect in thiolase processing (Figure 4C). [[FIGURE]] Because the pex22-1 insertion is upstream of the coding region, disruption of this gene probably is incomplete. To test whether the T-DNA insertion affects PEX22 expression, we isolated RNA from mutant and wild-type seedlings and performed RT-PCR using gene-specific primers. We found PEX22 transcript at similar levels in both samples (Figure 6D), indicating that the T-DNA insertion does not dramatically alter PEX22 transcript levels in 7-d-old seedlings. Because pex22-1 does not eliminate PEX22 transcription and pex4-1 is a missense allele (Figure 1) that may incompletely compromise PEX4 function, we constructed a pex4-1 pex22-1 double mutant to determine whether combining both defects would enhance the mutant phenotypes. As in the single mutants, PEX5 levels remained similar to those in the wild type in the pex4-1 pex22-1 double mutant (Figure 4D). However, the pex4-1 pex22-1 double mutant displayed more severe phenotypes than either parent in both IBA responses and sucrose dependence (Figure 6). Moreover, the slight thiolase-processing defect observed in pex4-1 was enhanced in the pex4-1 pex22-1 double mutant (Figure 4C). This genetic interaction indicates that PEX22 contributes to peroxisome functions in vivo. To confirm that this new protein functions as the Arabidopsis PEX22 and to determine whether the Arabidopsis PEX4 and PEX22 proteins can act similarly to their yeast counterparts, we tested whether the Arabidopsis proteins could complement the corresponding S. cerevisiae mutants. Yeast pex4 and pex22 mutants fail to import a PTS1-GFP reporter into peroxisomes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) (Figure 7). We expressed the Arabidopsis PEX4 and PEX22 genes both individually and together in yeast pex4 and pex22 mutants. Neither PEX4 nor PEX22 alone rescued the corresponding yeast mutants (Figure 7). However, introducing Arabidopsis PEX4 and PEX22 together partially restored the ability of either mutant to import PTS1-GFP into peroxisomes (Figure 7). The ability of the genes to rescue when added together indicates that we have identified the Arabidopsis PEX22 protein and that the PEX4–PEX22 complex can perform a similar task in yeast and plants. [[FIGURE]] The strong sucrose dependence of the pex4-1 pex22-1 mutant is not accompanied by correspondingly strong defects in peroxisomal matrix protein import, suggesting that this peroxin pair may have novel plant targets in addition to those important in fungi. One possible plant-specific role is in the transition of seedling glyoxysomes to leaf peroxisomes. Glyoxysomes, specialized peroxisomes that function early in seedling development, convert acetyl-CoA liberated by fatty acid β-oxidation to substrates that are metabolized to sucrose via gluconeogenesis. As photosynthesis begins, glyoxysomes are converted to leaf peroxisomes, which house photorespiration enzymes (CITATION). Several glyoxysome-specific enzymes are not found in leaf peroxisomes. For instance, isocitrate lyase (ICL), an essential enzyme of the glyoxylate cycle, has high mRNA levels and enzyme activity soon after imbibition, but these levels quickly decline 3 to 4 d later (CITATION). To determine whether PEX4/PEX22 plays a role in protein degradation at this transition, we examined the rate of ICL disappearance during wild-type and pex4-1 pex22-1 seedling development. We used an antibody raised against castor bean (Ricinus communis) ICL (CITATION) to monitor ICL levels and the icl-1 null mutant (CITATION) to determine the specificity of the antibody in Arabidopsis. We found that ICL was readily detected by immunoblotting in 4-d-old wild-type seedlings and was absent in 4-d-old icl-1 seedlings (Figure 8). As expected, ICL levels declined in older wild-type seedlings; ICL was not apparent 6 or 9 d after sowing (Figure 8). By contrast, ICL was more abundant in pex4-1 pex22-1 seedlings at every time point assayed and was easily detected even in 9-d-old pex4-1 pex22-1 seedlings (Figure 8). This result indicates that the PEX4–PEX22 pair is necessary to efficiently remove ICL during seedling development. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The pex4-1 mutant of Arabidopsis thaliana was described previously as B29, an ethyl methanesulfonate–induced IBA-response mutant in the Columbia (Col-0) background (CITATION). The pex22-1 (SALK_030743) and pex5-10 (SALK_124577) mutants, also in the Col-0 accession, were from the Salk Institute sequence indexed insertion collection (CITATION), and pex5-1 (CITATION), pex6-1 (CITATION), and icl-1 (CITATION) were described previously. T-DNA insertion positions were confirmed by sequencing amplification products of genomic DNA using a modified LBb1 T-DNA primer (5′-CAAACCAGCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCA-3′; http://signal.salk.edu) and PEX22 (5′-AAGGAACCAGATTTCGAATCGATGTAGTGG-3′) or PEX5 (5′-GATATCAAATGCGACTCAAACACCTGATGAC-3′) gene-specific primers. Surface-sterilized seeds were plated on plant nutrient medium (CITATION) solidified with 0.6% (w/v) agar and supplemented with sucrose, hormones, kanamycin, or Basta (glufosinate-ammonium; Crescent Chemical) as indicated. Plates were placed at 22°C under continuous light. To slow the breakdown of indolic compounds, auxin plates were incubated under yellow light filters (CITATION). Seedlings were transferred to soil (Metromix 200; Scotts) and grown at 18 to 24°C under continuous illumination. The pex4-1 and pex22-1 mutants were backcrossed to the wild type (Col-0) at least once before analyses, and all assays were conducted at least twice with similar results. In root elongation assays, seedlings were grown for 6 or 8 d and the length of the primary root was measured. In lateral root assays, seedlings were grown for 4 d and transferred to medium containing IBA or no hormone, and lateral roots were counted with a dissecting microscope after an additional 4 d. For hypocotyl elongation assays, seeds were incubated for 24 h under white light before being transferred to the dark. Hypocotyl lengths were measured after an additional 5 d. pex4-1 was outcrossed to Landsberg erecta tt4 and Wassilewskija for mapping, and DNA was isolated (CITATION) from IBA-resistant F2 plants with 100% sucrose-dependent progeny. The mutation was mapped using PCR-based molecular markers (http://www.arabidopsis.org). The At5g25760 candidate gene was amplified by PCR from mutant DNA and sequenced directly (SeqWright). For pex4-1 mutant complementation, a 2.7-kb EcoRI-SpeI fragment containing the PEX4 coding sequence, 0.9-kb 5′ flanking sequence, and 0.6-kb 3′ flanking sequence was subcloned from the F18A17 BAC into the EcoRI-XbaI sites of the plant transformation vector pBIN19 (CITATION) to make pBIN-PEX4g. This plasmid was electroporated into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 (CITATION) and transformed into pex4-1 (CITATION). Transformants were selected on 12 μg/mL kanamycin. A PEX4 cDNA in pBluescript SK− was obtained from the Kasuza DNA Research Institute (CITATION). The cDNA was excised using HincII and XhoI and subcloned into pBluescript II KS+ cut with EcoRV and XhoI (pKS-PEX4c) or into SmaI-XhoI–cut 35SpBARN (CITATION) behind the constitutive 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter (35S-PEX4c). 35S-PEX4c was transformed into pex4-1 plants, and transformants were selected on 7.5 μg/mL Basta. Wild-type (Col-0) plants transformed with PTS1-GFP (CITATION; CITATION) or PEX5-CFP (CITATION) were crossed to pex4-1, and mutant plants carrying the transgene were identified by PCR-based genotyping. PTS2-GFP (CITATION) was transformed into pex4-1, and progeny of the transformants were compared with Col-0 and pex5-1 plants transformed with PTS2-GFP (CITATION). Fluorescence localization was examined in root hairs of 4- or 6-d-old light-grown seedlings using a Zeiss Axioplan 2 fluorescence microscope equipped with narrow-band GFP and cyan GFP filter sets (41020 and 31044v2; Chroma Technology). The pBI770PEX4 bait construct for the two-hybrid assay was made by performing oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis on pKS-PEX4c to create an in-frame SalI site immediately 5′ of the initiator ATG using the oligonucleotide 5′-CAATTCGTTCTCTGTCGACCCATGGAGATGCAGGC-3′ (altered residues are underlined). The PEX4 coding sequence was excised using SalI and NotI and subcloned into the pBI770 vector (CITATION) cut with the same enzymes. For library transformation, 200 μL of competent AH109 (MATa, trp1-901, leu2-3, 112, ura3-52, his3-200, gal4Δ, gal80Δ, LYS2::GAL1UAS-GAL1TATA-HIS3, GAL2UAS-GAL2TATA-ADE2, URA3::MEL1UAS-MEL1TATA-lacZ, MEL1; Clontech) yeast was transformed according to the manufacturer's instructions with 50 μg of pBI770PEX4 and 20 μg of Arabidopsis cDNA library in the pBI771 prey vector (CITATION). Transformations were plated on synthetic complete plates lacking Leu, Trp, and His and containing 2 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole to reduce background growth. Positive transformants were assayed for growth on plates lacking Leu, Trp, and adenine. Plasmid DNA was isolated from yeast colonies (CITATION) and purified using the Wizard DNA clean-up system (Promega A7280). One Shot MACH1-T1 Escherichia coli cells (Invitrogen) were transformed with yeast DNA, and cDNA inserts were sequenced. Growth was retested after cotransforming AH109 cells with purified pBI771 cDNA clones and pBI770PEX4. For yeast mutant complementation, a full-length PEX22 cDNA clone (U11677) was identified (CITATION). This cDNA was excised from the pUNI51 vector with EcoRI and NotI and subcloned into pBluescript II KS+ cut with the same enzymes, forming pKS-PEX22c. PEX22 was amplified by PCR with 5′-GGGATCCGCCGTCAAGGCCAGAAGG-3′ and 5′-GCGGCCGCTTAAACACTTCCAAAGAACTGTTC-3′ primers to add BamHI and NotI sites (underlined) on the 5′ and 3′ ends, respectively. The PEX22 cDNA was subcloned into the yeast transformation vector pTGPD (a pRS314 derivative containing the GPD promoter and TRP1) cut with BamHI and NotI to make pTGPD-PEX22. The PEX4 cDNA was removed from pKS-PEX4c with EcoRI and SalI and subcloned into pRS426-GPD (containing the GPD promoter and URA3) cut with EcoRI and XhoI. PCR amplification using 5′-AACTCGACAAGCTTAAAGGGAACAAAAGCTG-3′ and 5′-GTGCGGCCGCGTAATACGACTCACTATAGGG-3′ amplified the GPD promoter and PEX4, adding HindIII-NotI sites (underlined) at the ends; the resulting amplicon was ligated into pRS415 (containing LEU2) cut with the same enzymes to make pRS415-PEX4. S. cerevisiae pex4 and pex22 deletion mutants (CITATION) and the wild-type parent were transformed with pEW88, which encodes a peroxisomally targeted GFP under URA3 selection (CITATION). The three resulting lines were transformed with combinations of empty pRS415 and pTGPD vectors, pRS415-PEX4 and pTGPD-PEX22. Transformants were selected on medium lacking Leu, Trp, and uracil. Matrix protein import was scored using GFP fluorescence of yeast grown on selective medium plus 0.3% glucose for 4 d. Images were made as described above. Immunoblot analysis was performed as described previously (CITATION) on proteins extracted from light-grown seedlings. Membranes were incubated with rabbit primary antibodies raised against Arabidopsis PEX5 (CITATION; used at a 1:200 dilution), plant thiolase (CITATION; used at a 1:2500 or 1:5000 dilution), GFP (BD Biosciences 8372-2; used at a 1:350 dilution), or castor bean (Ricinus communis) ICL (CITATION; used at a 1:2000 dilution), followed by horseradish peroxidase–linked goat anti-rabbit secondary antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology sc-2030; used at a 1:1000 or 1:5000 dilution). As a loading control, membranes subsequently were incubated with a mouse monoclonal antibody against spinach (Spinacia oleracea) Hsc70 (Stressgen Bioreagents SPA-817; used at a 1:2000 dilution), followed by horseradish peroxidase–linked goat anti-mouse secondary antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology sc-2031; used at a 1:1000 or 1:5000 dilution). All antibodies were visualized using LumiGLO (Cell Signaling). Wild-type and pex22-1 seedlings were grown for 7 d under white light on medium containing 0.5% sucrose covered with filter paper. Tissue was harvested by immersion in liquid nitrogen and ground to a fine powder, and RNA was isolated using RNeasy Mini kits (Qiagen). RNA was reverse-transcribed with random hexamer oligonucleotides using Superscript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen). Amplification of PEX22 was done using two sets of oligonucleotides: PEX22 5′ (5′-ACTGAAGAGATCGTTCGGTTGATTAAGCG-3′ plus 5′-CCTTCACTAAGCTTCTGTCTAACTATTTGC-3′) and PEX22 3′ (5′-CAAAGTTTTACAGGCTTTAGAGAATGCAGG-3′ plus 5′-TTCTATTGACTGCGAGGTGAACACATTTGG-3′). A control amplification used primers from the PEX6 gene (5′-AGTTCTGAATAAAGACGGTGACTTGTTACG-3′ plus 5′-GGGGACAAGTAAGCAACCTCTTGATC-3′). Sequences were aligned with the MEGALIGN program (DNASTAR) using the ClustalW method with Gonnet series protein weight matrix. The unrooted phylogram was generated with PAUP 4.0b5 (CITATION) using the alignment shown in Supplemental Figure 1 online. The bootstrap method was performed for 100 replicates with a distance optimality criterion, and all characters were weighted equally. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers AV566071 (PEX4 cDNA) and AY096402 (PEX22 cDNA). The following material is available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Sequence Alignment Used for PEX4 Phylogenetic Analysis.
