!~ABS~! The protein Fip1 is an important subunit of the eukaryotic polyadenylation apparatus, since it provides a bridge of sorts between poly(A) polymerase, other subunits of the polyadenylation apparatus, and the substrate RNA. In this study, a previously unreported Arabidopsis Fip1 homolog is characterized. The gene for this protein resides on chromosome V and encodes a 1196-amino acid polypeptide. Yeast two-hybrid and in vitro assays indicate that the N-terminal 137 amino acids of the Arabidopsis Fip1 protein interact with poly(A) polymerase (PAP). This domain also stimulates the activity of the PAP. Interestingly, this part of the Arabidopsis Fip1 interacts with Arabidopsis homologs of CstF77, CPSF30, CFIm-25, and PabN1. The interactions with CstF77, CPSF30, and CFIm-25 are reminiscent in various respects of similar interactions seen in yeast and mammals, although the part of the Arabidopsis Fip1 protein that participates in these interactions has no apparent counterpart in other eukaryotic Fip1 proteins. Interactions between Fip1 and PabN1 have not been reported in other systems; this may represent plant-specific associations. The C-terminal 789 amino acids of the Arabidopsis Fip1 protein were found to contain an RNA-binding domain; this domain correlated with an intact arginine-rich region and had a marked preference for poly(G) among the four homopolymers studied. These results indicate that the Arabidopsis Fip1, like its human counterpart, is an RNA-binding protein. Moreover, they provide conceptual links between PAP and several other Arabidopsis polyadenylation factor subunit homologs. 
!~RES~! To identify possible Arabidopsis counterparts of Fip1, a BLAST search of the Arabidopsis genome was conducted using the human Fip1 amino acid sequence as a query. This process yielded two candidate genes located on chromosomes 5 (At5g58040) and 3 (At3g66652). The chromosome 3 gene had been identified earlier as a possible Fip1 homolog (CITATION), but the chromosome 5 gene had not been commented on in the earlier study. Amino acid sequence alignments (not shown) and consideration of the general putative domain organization of the two Arabidopsis proteins and hFip1 (Fig. 1A) suggested that the chromosome 5 gene (At5g58040) encoded a likely Fip1 homolog (AtFip1(V)). Accordingly, this gene was selected for the studies that follow. As a prelude, cDNAs that span the open reading frame encoded by this gene were cloned and sequenced; this process allowed revision of the prediction of the protein encoded by this gene (Fig. 1B) as well as the intron/exon structure (Fig. 2A). This gene encodes a primary transcript that includes eight exons and a polypeptide of 1196 amino acids. The characteristic Fip1 domain in AtFip1(V) shows amino acid sequence identity of 26% and similarity of 40% to the corresponding domain of hFip1 and 38% identity and 56% similarity to the conserved domain in the yeast Fip1 protein (Fig. 1C). The sequence similarity outside of this domain is much more modest (not shown). However, several identifiable trends in other parts of the protein could be identified, and these trends correspond to some degree to domains that are present in hFip1 and its yeast counterpart (Fig. 1A).    [[FIGURE]] RT-PCR analysis of RNA isolated from leaves, stems, flower tissues, and roots indicated that this gene is expressed in all of these tissues (Fig. 2B). Retrieval and inspection of the expression data of this gene from Genevestigator (available on the World Wide Web www.genevestigator.ethz.ch (CITATION)) corroborated the RT-PCR data; specifically, there was little difference in the expression of this gene in the different tissues analyzed in the microarray data set that is available (not shown). These data indicate that At5g58040 is expressed ubiquitously in Arabidopsis.  A T-DNA insertion within the AtFip1(V) locus, SALK_087117, could be found in the Salk Institute T-DNA insertion library data base (available on the World Wide Web at signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress (CITATION)). According to the data base, the T-DNA insertion lies within the sixth exon (Fig. 2A); this was confirmed using primers (illustrated in Fig. 2A) situated within the T-DNA and in the expected flanking sequences of the AtFip1(V) gene (not shown). PCR genotyping of 42 progeny derived from self-crosses of kanamycin-resistant individuals from the ABRC, using pairs of primers specific for AtFip1(V) that flank the T-DNA insert revealed that all 42 plants had at least one of the wild-type alleles. Further screening was performed by plating seeds from several of these plants on kanamycin-containing media; this would identify individuals containing the complete T-DNA and serve as a phenotypic confirmation of the PCR genotyping. Media containing the selectable marker associated with the T-DNA. Seeds from 23 lines were germinated on the selectable media. Of these 23 lines, 15 were heterozygous for the selectable marker, and eight lines showed wild-type (kanamycin-sensitive) background. These results indicate that AtFip1(V) is an essential gene.  In mammals and yeast, Fip1 interacts with a subset of other polyadenylation factor subunits (CITATION, CITATION). To examine this aspect of Fip1 function in Arabidopsis, the ability of AtFip1(V) to interact with a battery of other Arabidopsis polyadenylation factor subunits was measured. For these assays, two parts of AtFip1(V) were cloned into yeast two-hybrid vectors; one part consisted of the N-terminal 137 amino acids of the protein, whereas the other consisted of the C-terminal 789 amino acids. These portions were tested for interactions with the Arabidopsis homologs of CstF77, CstF64, CstF50, CPSF160, CPS100, CPSF73 (both homologs; (CITATION)), CPSF30, FY, PabN, and PAP (specifically, the isoform encoded by the Arabidopsis PAP gene situated on chromosome IV (CITATION)). In these assays, no interactions involving the C-terminal portion of AtFip1(V) could be ascertained (not shown). However, these assays also suggested that the first 137 amino acids of AtFip1(V) interact with the Arabidopsis homologs of PAP, CPSF30, CstF77, CFIm-25, and PabN1 (summarized in Table 2). In contrast, no discernible interaction was observed with the Arabidopsis homologs of CPSF160, CPSF100, CPSF73 (neither of the two distinctive isoforms), CstF64, CstF50, and FY (Table 2). To account for the possibility that these negative results might be due to the omission of the central part of AtFip1(V), the assays with the Arabidopsis homologs of CPSF160, CPSF100, CPSF73 (both isoforms), CstF64, CstF50, and FY were repeated with another AtFip1(V) construct containing the N-terminal 492 amino acids of AtFip1(V). Again, no discernible interactions were observed. With the exception of FY, all of the partners for which negative results were obtained with AtFip1(V) have yielded positive results in other tests, indicating that the two-hybrid constructs enable the production of functional proteins in yeast. In addition, all of the interacting partners identified in this screen (e.g. CPSF30, CstF77, CFIm-25, and PabN1) have yielded negative results when tested in other combinations, indicating that these various proteins have specificity with respect to the proteins with which they interact in yeast cells.    [[TABLE]] The positive results of the two-hybrid assays were corroborated with a second measure, namely the measurement of copurification of AtFip1(V) with other polyadenylation factor subunits. Initial focus was placed on PAP, since this interaction is central to the functioning of Fip1 in yeast and mammals (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). For these assays, E. coli extracts containing a fusion protein (GST-PAP in Fig. 3A) that contains amino acids 130–503 of the Arabidopsis chromosome IV-encoded PAP were mixed with extracts containing an MBP fusion with the N-terminal part of AtFip1(V) that was implicated in the two-hybrid assays (MBP-FipN; Fig. 3A). (This part of the PAP is the most highly conserved among the four Arabidopsis PAP isoforms (CITATION).) Control reactions contained MBP. After purification using amylose resin, the copurification of AtPAP[IV] with the MBP “baits” was evaluated by immunoblotting, using anti-GST antibodies. The results of this experiment corroborated those of the two-hybrid analysis. Specifically, GST-AtPAP[IV] copurified with MBP-FipN but not MBP (Fig. 3B, row of samples designated GST-PAP). The GST-AtPAP[IV] protein was not retained in experiments using just MBP, indicating that the copurification was not due to interactions involving the MBP portion of the baits. GST itself did not copurify with MBP-FipN (Fig. 3B, row of samples designated GST), ruling out the possibility that the copurification of GST-AtPAP[IV] and MBP-FipN was due to interactions involving the GST part of the GST-AtPAP[IV] fusion protein. The absence of copurifying GST-AtPAP[IV] in the MBP sample was not due to a low quantity of MBP in the experiments, since ample quantities of the bait proteins could be detected after SDS-PAGE and staining (Fig. 3B, row of samples designated stained proteins).    [[FIGURE]] For other assays, extracts containing a GST-AtFip1(V) fusion protein (GST-FipN in Fig. 4A) that contained the N-terminal domain implicated in the two-hybrid tests were mixed with extracts containing MBP fusions with CPSF30, CstF77, or PabN1 (MBP-CstF77, MBP-CPSF30, and MBP-PABN1; Fig. 4A) or extracts containing a calmodulin-binding protein (CBD)-CFIm-25 fusion (CFI-25-CBD in Fig. 4A). Control reactions contained MBP or a CBD-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase fusion (CAT-CBD in Fig. 4A). After purification using amylose resin, the copurification of AtFip1(V) with this battery of “baits” was evaluated by immunoblotting, using anti-GST antibodies. The results of these experiments corroborated those of the two-hybrid analysis. Thus, GST-FipN copurified with MBP-CstF77, MBP-CPSF30, MBP-PabN1, and CFI25-CBD after purification of the latter fusions on their respective affinity matrices (Fig. 4B, row of samples designated GST-FipN). The GST-FipN protein was not retained in experiments using just MBP or CAT-CBD, indicating that the copurification with the other “baits” was not due to interactions involving the MBP or CBD portions of the baits. GST itself did not copurify with MBP-CstF77, MBP-CPSF30, MBP-PabN1, and CFI25-CBD (Fig. 4B, row of samples designated GST), ruling out the possibility that the copurification of GST-FipN was due to interactions involving the GST part of the GST-FipN fusion protein. The absence of copurifying GST-FipN in the MBP and CAT-CBD samples was not due to a low quantity of the bait proteins in the experiments, since ample quantities of the various bait proteins could be detected after SDS-PAGE and staining (Fig. 4B, row of samples designated stained proteins).    [[FIGURE]] The C-terminal part of the human Fip1 protein contains an arginine-rich region that is suggestive of an RNA-binding protein; consistent with this, the human Fip1 protein does bind RNA and shows a preference for U-rich sequences (CITATION). The C-terminal part of AtFip1(V) also contains an arginine-rich region, raising the possibility that the Arabidopsis protein also binds RNA. To test this, the C-terminal portion of AtFip1(V) (Fig. 5A) was produced as a GST fusion protein and assayed for RNA binding activity. The protein that was produced in E. coli was heterogeneous, with some full-sized polypeptide as well as several GST-containing polypeptides that were apparently truncated at the C terminus of the AtFip1(V) part of the fusion protein (based on the mobilities of these forms and their cross-reactivities with anti-GST antibodies (Fig. 5A)). This heterogeneity could not be reduced beyond a point with any of a number of strategies (not shown), so the preparations shown in Fig. 5A were analyzed for RNA binding. For this, uniformly labeled RNA was incubated with purified protein preparations for 20 min at 30 °C and aliquots of the binding mixtures separated on nondenaturing acrylamide gels. The RNA used in these studies contains a functional poly(A) site derived from the pea rbcS-E9 gene. As shown in Fig. 5B, purified GST-AtFip1(V) was able to bind this RNA; in contrast, purified GST lacked this activity. To assess possible sequence preferences of FipC for RNA binding, a range of excesses of each of the four homopolymers (poly(A), poly(C), poly(G), and poly(U)) was added to binding reactions. As shown in Fig. 6, RNA binding was inhibited by even modest excesses of poly(G). Slight inhibition was seen with large excesses of poly(A), but poly(U) and poly(C) did not inhibit binding to the labeled RNA.    [[FIGURE]] The array of GST-AtFip1(V) polypeptides that can be detected in E. coli extracts represent a “deletion” series of a sort, in that they define a set of polypeptides that share a common N terminus (the GST part of the fusion protein) and differ at their C termini. This afforded an opportunity to map, to a first approximation, the amino acid sequences in the C terminus that are required for RNA binding. Accordingly, the mixture of GST-AtFip1(V) polypeptides was incubated with poly(G)-Sepharose, and proteins that bound were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting. The results showed that a subset of the GST-AtFip1(V) proteins were able to bind poly(G)-Sepharose (Fig. 7). Based on the mobilities of those polypeptides that bound as well as those that did not, it is concluded that RNA binding requires the arginine-rich domain of AtFip1(V).  Plant polyadenylation signals consist of a distinctive set of cis elements, elements situated relatively far 5′, or upstream of, the poly(A) site (FUEs), elements situated within 30 nt of the poly(A) site (NUEs), and the cleavage/polyadenylation site itself (CS). To examine the possible preference of AtFip1(V) for any of these classes of elements, different parts of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) polyadenylation signal were tested for the ability to compete with the labeled rbcS-E9 RNA for binding to AtFip1(V). The CaMV poly(A) signal was chosen, because, unlike most plant 3′-untranslated regions, the CaMV signal directs mRNA 3′-end formation at a single site and thus consists of a relatively simple array of cis elements (CITATION, CITATION). Four RNAs were tested as competitors for binding of AtFip1(V) to the labeled rbcS-E9 RNA. One of the competitors (1 in Fig. 8A) contained all sequences extending from 181 nt 5′ to 80 nt 3′ of the CaMV polyadenylation site. A second site (2) contained sequences from 181 to 50 nt 5′ of the poly(A) site; this portion contains the FUE but lacks the NUE and poly(A) site itself. A third RNA (3) extended from 181 nt 5′ of the poly(A) site to the poly(A) site itself. A fourth RNA (4) included sequences from 30 nt 5′ to 80 nt 3′ of the poly(A) site. As seen in Fig. 8, B and C, a 50-fold molar excesses of RNAs 1, 2, and 3 all reduced binding of AtFip1(V) to the labeled RNA (the reduction is apparent as a dramatic increase in the quantity of free RNA in the experiment). In contrast, a similar excess of RNA 4 had no effect on the binding of the labeled RNA. This experiment indicates that AtFip1(V) has a decided preference for CaMV-derived RNAs that contain the FUE of the polyadenylation signal.  The human Fip1 protein is able to stimulate the nonspecific activity of PAP, and both the N-terminal (PAP-binding) and C-terminal (RNA-binding) portions of the protein are required for this stimulation (CITATION). Attempts to recapitulate this aspect of the AtFip1(V)-AtPAP interaction were not successful, because full-length AtFip1(V) consistently copurified with E. coli nucleases to an extent that precluded the assay of PAP activity. However, in light of the observation that amino acids 1–137 of AtFip1(V) interacted with PAP, the effects of this domain on PAP activity were examined. For this, recombinant FipN was produced as a histidine-tagged protein (Fig. 9A). The Arabidopsis PAP(IV) polyadenylates the RNA template, and the quantity of product increases over time (Fig. 9B). In the presence of FipN, the overall quantities of product were greater at all times, when compared with the PAP alone (Fig. 9B). This indicates that the N-terminal domain of AtFip1(V) that interacts with PAP can also stimulate the activity of PAP. 
!~MM~! Plant Materials—Arabidopsis thaliana seed was obtained from Lehle Seeds. Seeds were germinated and plants were cultivated in the greenhouse or growth room for 3–4 weeks. Plants were harvested before as well as after the flowering stage. Leaves, stems, and flowers were used for total RNA isolation (see below). Root material was gathered from seedlings that were grown in liquid culture under lights with shaking. 50 ml of germination medium (500 mg of sucrose, 215.5 mg of Murashige and Skoog Basal Medium (Sigma), and 25 mg of MES was inoculated with 30–40 sterilized seeds and grown for 2–3 weeks at room temperature under a 12-h light, 12-h dark cycle. For scoring T-DNA insertion plants, this medium was supplemented with kanamycin (50 μg/ml).  PCR Genotyping of Salk T-DNA Lines—The T-DNA insertion line, SALK_087117, was generated by the Salk Institute (available on the World Wide Web at signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress), and seed was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. Seeds from the stock center were germinated, and the plants were allowed to self-fertilize so as to generate a bulk stock of seed. Seeds from this bulked population were germinated, and plants were cultivated in the greenhouse or growth room. DNA from single leaves was extracted using a rapid homogenization plant leaf DNA amplification kit (Cartagen). Extracted DNA was used in a typical PCR (see supplemental materials) with AtFip1(V)-specific primers 5′ GFIP and 3′ INT (Table 1), yielding a 1-kb genomic DNA fragment, and with a combination of AtFip1(V)- and T-DNA-specific primers (AtFip1(V)-specific primer 5′ INT and a T-DNA-specific primer LBb1, yielding a ∼500-bp fragment) for verifying the presence and location of the T-DNA insertion.    [[TABLE]] RNA Isolation from Arabidopsis and Generation of First Strand cDNA—Total RNA was isolated from Arabidopsis leaves using either an SV Total RNA Isolation Kit (Promega), RNeasy® Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen), or Trizol (Invitrogen), following the manufacturers' instructions. Reverse transcription experiments were conducted using the total RNA, oligo(dT) and Superscript RT II (Invitrogen), oligo(dT) with the ProS-TAR™ Ultra HF RT-PCR system (Stratagene), or random primers using a RETROscript™ First Strand Synthesis kit (Ambion).  Isolation and Characterization of Arabidopsis AtFip1(V) cDNAs—cDNAs derived from the Arabidopsis AtFip1(V) gene were isolated by PCR and RT-PCR. Potential Fip1-encoding genes were identified in the Arabidopsis genome (available on the World Wide Web at www.Arabidopsis.org/home.html) with TBLASTN and BLASTP (CITATION) using the human and yeast Fip1 amino acid sequences as search queries. Based on the results, primers were designed to amplify the cDNA coding region of the AtFip1(V) gene (Table 1). Various combinations of these primers were used in PCRs with first strand cDNA or with a 3–6-kb cDNA expression library for Arabidopsis (CD4-16; ABRC-DNA Stock Center (CITATION)) as templates. PCR products were subcloned into pGEM-T Easy vector and sequenced by automated sequencing (ABI Prism 310 Genetic Analyzer; PerkinElmer Life Sciences) using the BigDye Terminator Cycle Sequencing Ready Reaction kit (ABI prism) and T7 and SP6 primers.  Three pGEM clones that represent the 5′-end (bases 1–1478), middle region (bases 1220–2692), and 3′-end (bases 2672–3588) of the full-length coding region, respectively, were generated. Full-length clones were assembled in pGEM using common restriction enzyme sites; the C-terminal domain of AtFip1(V) was amplified and subcloned using full-length cDNAs. One clone containing the 5′-end of AtFip1(V) contained a premature stop codon after residue 137 of the protein, presumably due to a PCR error. This stop codon conveniently delimits the highly divergent part of the N terminus of AtFip1(V) (Fig. 1A); for this reason, it was selected to produce yeast two-hybrid and protein expression clones. Cloning details are provided in supplemental materials.  For expression analysis of AtFip1 genes in different Arabidopsis tissues, PCR amplification was done with 1.5 μl of first strand cDNA (ProSTAR; Stratagene) added to 100 ng of each primer, 0.8 mm dNTPs, 5.0 μl of Ultra HF PCR buffer (Stratagene), and 2.5 units of Pfu Turbo DNA polymerase (Stratagene) in a 50-μl reaction.  Cloning of Arabidopsis cDNAs Encoding Arabidopsis Polyadenylation Factor Subunits—Data base searches of the Arabidopsis genome using TBLASTN and BLASTP with the yeast Pfs2 and human CstF50, -64, and -77 subunits as well as mammalian CFIm-25 and PabN1 as search queries identified potential homologs for each subunit. Based on the sequence information, primers were designed to amplify the cDNA coding regions of these genes (Table 1). Clones were generated by PCR or RT-PCR, subcloned in pGEM, and sequenced. In cases where partial clones were produced, full-length cDNAs were assembled using common restriction enzyme sites. Full-length clones were used to produce yeast two-hybrid and protein expression clones. Cloning details are provided in supplemental materials. Clones encoding the Arabidopsis chromosome IV-encoded PAP have been described elsewhere (CITATION).  Yeast Two-hybrid Assay—A Gal4-based two-hybrid system was used as described previously (CITATION). The yeast strain used was PJ69-4, and the expression vectors were pGAD-C (CITATION) and pGBD-C (CITATION) for activation domain (AD) and binding domain (BD), respectively.  Clones encoding the relevant protein-coding regions were cloned into AD and BD expression vectors using Gateway™ cloning technology (Invitrogen). For this, the appropriate coding sequences were amplified by PCR using 5′GW/3′GW primers listed in Table 1 and the amplification products mobilized into pDONR 201 according to the manufacturer's instructions. The various protein-coding regions were then mobilized into Gateway-compatible versions of pGAD-C (CITATION) and pGBD-C (CITATION) (generated as recommended by the manufacturer). The resulting expression clones were sequenced to ensure that the gene fusions were in the correct reading frame. The pGAD-C (CITATION) and pGBD-C (CITATION) clones of AtCPSF factors used in this experiment were obtained from Drs. Ruqiang Xu and Quinn Li (Miami University, Oxford, OH).  Yeast cells were transformed with plasmid DNA using the polyethylene glycol/lithium acetate method (CITATION). Two-hybrid analysis was carried out by plating yeast transformants on defined media containing glucose as a carbon source and lacking the nutritional supplements suited for selection of transformants (leucine and tryptophan) and for identification of interactions (adenine) (LW and ALW medium, respectively). Positive interactions were those in which the colony numbers on ALW medium were 50% or more than those seen on LW medium. Negative interactions were those that yielded less than 10% of the colonies on ALW plates compared with LW medium. With negative controls (e.g. experiments with “empty” two-hybrid vectors as well as those in which one test plasmid was co-transformed with the complementary “empty vector”), the numbers of colonies growing on ALW selective media were invariably less than 2% (and usually 0%) of the numbers seen on LW medium. Positive samples (such as the combination using clones for the Arabidopsis orthologues for CstF77 and CstF64, which have been reported elsewhere to interact (CITATION) and which in our hands is a very strong two-hybrid interaction) yielded, on ALW medium, from 50 to 200% of the colonies seen on LW medium.  Production of Recombinant Proteins—To produce recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli, the coding regions for respective AtFip1(V)-derived proteins were mobilized into pDEST15 and pDEST17 using LR Clonase and the respective entry clones (see above). This would enable the production of GST- or histidine-tagged proteins, respectively. In addition, AtCstF77, AtCPSF30, and AtPabN1 were subcloned into pMAL-C2x (New England Biolabs) so as to produce maltose-binding protein fusions. AtCFIm-25 was cloned into a Gateway-converted form of pCal-kc (Stratagene), using the corresponding Gateway-compatible entry clone and LR Clonase. The resulting recombinant plasmids were introduced into Rosetta(D3) cells (Novagen) for the production of protein.  Extracts containing the appropriate fusion protein were prepared after induction of Rosetta(D3) cells (Novagen). Briefly, overnight 10-ml cultures of LB(+) (LB plus 100 μg/ml ampicillin and 25 μg/ml chloramphenicol) were used to inoculate 200 ml of LB(+) media, and cells were grown at 37 °C until an A600 of 1.0–1.2. Expression of the fusion protein genes was then induced by the addition of 200 μl of 1 m isopropyl 1-thio-β-d-galactopyranoside. After additional growth for 2 h at 37 °C, cells were harvested and resuspended in 5 ml of lysis buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 150 mm NaCl, 1 mm EDTA, 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride). Cells were disrupted by sonication (three bursts, 30 s each), and debris was removed by centrifugation. Extracts were stored as 1-ml aliquots at –80 °C.  To produce the histidine-tagged FipN protein, extracts were prepared after induction of Rosetta(D3) cells (Novagen) containing recombinant pDEST-17 construct. Cells were grown, and expression was induced as described above. Cells were harvested and resuspended in 5 ml of binding buffer (20 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.9, 500 mm NaCl, and 5 mm imidazole). Cells were disrupted by sonication (three bursts, 30 s each), debris was removed by centrifugation, and lysates were passed through a nitrocellulose filter (0.45-μm pore size). The filtrate was then loaded onto a His-Bind resin column (Novagen) equilibrated with binding buffer. The matrix was washed with binding buffer containing 40 mm imidazole. Histidine-tagged proteins were then eluted with binding buffer containing 125 mm imidazole. The eluted proteins were dialyzed against NEB (40 mm KCl, 25 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.9, 0.1 mm EDTA, 1 mm dithiothreitol, 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 10% glycerol). Protein quantities were estimated by 10% SDS-PAGE and staining with Coomassie Brilliant Blue using bovine serum albumin as a standard, and immunoblotting for His-tagged FipN was done with anti-His antibodies (Invitrogen).  To produce the GST-FipC fusion protein, 10-ml overnight cultures of recombinant BL21-SI cells (Invitrogen) were used to inoculate 200 ml of media, and cells were grown at 37 °C until an A600 of 0.8. Expression of the fusion protein genes was then induced by the addition of NaCl to a final concentration of 0.3 m. After additional growth for 3 h at 37 °C, cells were harvested and resuspended in 5 ml of lysis buffer. Cells were disrupted by sonication (three bursts, 30 s each), and debris was removed by centrifugation. To purify GST fusion proteins, lysates were then incubated for 1 h with glutathione-Sepharose beads (that had been equilibrated with lysis buffer) with gentle agitation. After incubation, the glutathione-Sepharose beads were pelleted by brief centrifugation and washed twice with lysis buffer containing 2 m NaCl and finally two more times with lysis buffer alone. Proteins bound to the beads were eluted with glutathione elution buffer (20 mm reduced glutathione, 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0) and then dialyzed overnight with NEB.  For the poly(G) affinity purification of GST-FipC, 100 μl of poly(G)-agarose (Sigma) was pelleted, washed three times with NEB, and briefly pelleted by centrifugation. The pellet was then incubated with ∼30 μg of GST-FipC (in 100 μl of NEB) at 30 °C for 20 min. The agarose was then briefly pelleted and washed three times with NEB. Thirty μl of SDS-sample buffer was added to the agarose, boiled for 10 min, and then briefly pelleted. Twenty μl of the sample was separated by SDS-PAGE.  In Vitro Determination of Protein-Protein Interactions—To measure protein-protein interactions, 20-μl aliquots of E. coli cell extracts containing maltose-binding protein (MBP) or CBD fusion proteins were mixed with 10 μl of cell extract containing the GST-tagged target fusion protein; reactions were brought to a final volume of 100 μl with control E. coli lysate. All reactions had 0.1% Nonidet P-40. After 30 min at 30 °C, these mixtures were added to amylose beads (New England Biolabs) or calmodulin affinity resin (Stratagene) that had been pretreated (for 30 min) with control cell extract, 100 μg/ml bovine serum albumin, and 0.1% Nonidet P-40. After 5 min, the matrix was collected and washed five times with lysis buffer containing 0.1% Nonidet P-40, and proteins that were retained were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting. GST fusion proteins were detected using alkaline phosphatase-conjugated anti-GST antibodies (Sigma).  Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assays—For electrophoretic mobility shift assays, RNA and proteins were incubated at 30 °C in NEB supplemented with KCl (final concentration 60 mm) and MgCl2 (final concentration 1.2 mm). After 20 min, 0.1 volume of gel loading buffer II (AMBION) diluted in NEB (1:40 ratio of GLBII to NEB) was added to the reactions, and samples were loaded onto nondenaturing gels (4% acrylamide, 0.08% bisacrylamide, cast in TBE). After electrophoresis, gels were transferred to Whatmann paper and dried under vacuum. Dried gels were developed on a storage phosphor screen and visualized by ImageQuant.    [[FIGURE]] RNA containing the rbcS-E9 polyadenylation signal was made from pBLUESCRIPT derivatives (CITATION, CITATION). Uniformly labeled RNA was generated using a Ampliscribe transcription kit (Epicenter) with [α-32P]ATP. RNA homopolymers were purchased from (Sigma), and yeast tRNA was from Invitrogen. Unlabeled RNAs derived from the cauliflower mosaic virus genome were produced using the Ampliscribe kit (Epicenter), using PCR-generated templates encoding the regions depicted in Fig. 8.  Poly(A) Polymerase Assay—PAP assays were conducted as described elsewhere (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), except that the RNA used was a synthetic 14-mer (obtained from Dharmacon RNA Technologies). Briefly, recombinant Arabidopsis poly(A) polymerase (the product of At4g32850 (CITATION)) and the histidine-tagged N-terminal 137 amino acids of AtFip1(V) were assayed for incorporation of label from [α-32P]ATP into poly(A). Reactions were performed in a volume of 30 μl at 30 °C for the times indicated. Reactions were terminated by incubating with 2.5 μl of STOP solution (2.5% SDS, 135 mm EDTA, 5 mg/ml Proteinase K) for 10 min at 37 °C, and the labeled RNAs were recovered and separated on sequencing gels. Dried gels were exposed to a phosphorimaging screen, autoradiographs were developed, and the quantities of labeled polymer were determined with ImageQuant software (Amersham Biosciences). The results were plotted as arbitrary values against time. 
