!~ABS~! Normal progression of genetic recombination requires timely degradation of many proteins, but little is known about the proteolytic mechanism. The ARABIDOPSIS SKP1-LIKE1 (ASK1) protein is a component of the Skp1-Cullin-F-box-protein (SCF) ubiquitin ligases that target a variety of proteins for degradation via the 26S proteasome pathway. Previous studies indicate that the early defects of the mutant ask1-1 occur in a prophase-I period overlapping with the period of homologous recombination. We provide evidence in this report that ASK1 is predominately expressed from leptotene to pachytene, and negatively regulates recombination. First, the ASK1 transcript was found not to co-exist with that of its closest homolog ASK2 only during prophase I of male meiosis, suggesting that ASK1 is functionally non-redundant only in prophase I. Second, the peak level of an ASK1-green fluorescence protein (GFP) fusion protein expressed by an ASK1 promoter region occurred only from leptotene to pachytene. The ASK1-GFP in a dominant negative fashion resulted in abnormal tetrads resembling those of the ask1-1 mutant, supporting that the expression timing of the ASK1-GFP in male meiocytes reflects the expression timing of the endogenous ASK1. Lastly, using a marker for recombination events, a significant increase in recombination frequency was detected in plants heterozygous for ask1-1. These results indicate that ASK1 normally plays a repressive role in male recombination in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! The ask1-1 male meiotic defects indicate that ASK1 plays an essential role in male meiocytes. To uncover for what processes that ASK1 is required, the timing of ASK1’s action in male meiocytes needs to be determined. Toward this end, total RNA samples from meiocytes of WT individual anthers at different cell cycle stages were first prepared for detection of ASK1 and ASK2 transcripts using an RT-PCR-PCR approach (Materials and methods). Inclusion of ASK2, the function-equivalent homolog of ASK1 (Risseeuw et al. CITATION; Liu et al. CITATION), was also to test the possibility that the transcriptional periods of ASK1 and ASK2 only partially overlap so that ASK2 cannot fully compensate the loss of ASK1 in ask1-1 male meiocytes. The ASK1 transcript was detected at all stages examined, including preleptotene, leptotene, zygotene, pachytene, diplotene, metaphase I, telophase II, and cytokinesis, whereas the ASK2 transcript was not detected in prophase I but at all the later stages (Fig. 1, and data not shown). Even though the experiment did not reveal a cell cycle-specific transcription pattern for ASK1, the lack of overlap in transcription between ASK1 and ASK2 during prophase I suggests that the meiotic defects of ask1-1 likely result from the lack of both ASK1 and ASK2 in prophase I. [[FIGURE]]  To further investigate the dynamics of the ASK1 protein in the male meiotic cell cycle, transgenic plants expressing an ASK1-GFP fusion protein (GFP fused with the C-terminus of ASK1) under the control of an ASK1 promoter region was made and characterized. The GFP signal was most pronounced from leptotene to pachytene in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus, but weak in other stages of meiosis (Fig. 2, and data not shown). These observations indicate that the amount of ASK1 likely fluctuates in the cell cycle with a peak level occurring from leptotene to pachytene. Therefore, the period from leptotene to pachytene appears to be critical for the function of ASK1, which is consistent with the previous findings that the earliest detectable defects in ask1-1 male meiocytes occur in a period corresponding to that from leptotene to pachytene (Wang et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  The correspondence of the expression timing of the ASK1-GFP to that of the endogenous ASK1 is supported by a dominant negative effect of the transgene. From eight independent transformations for generation of the transgenic plants, only three gave rise to transformants after screening several thousand of seeds of the T1 generation from each transformation. A strong GFP signal could only be detected in the T1 plants from one of the three transformations; a GFP signal could hardly be detected in the T1 plants from the other two transformations. Four of the 12 T1 plants exhibiting a strong GFP signal were small and had inflorescence branches of either low or no fertility. The other eight T1 plants also appeared stunted in growth and had reduced fertility to various degrees. The T1 plants of low fertility produced both hygromycin-sensitive and -resistant T2 plants, indicating that the T1 plants were heterozygous for the transgene. Therefore, the ASK1-GFP had a dominant negative effect on the plants’ growth and fertility. Consistent with this dominant negative effect, the ASK1-GFP transgene failed to complement the ask1-1 male meiotic defects after the transgene from a T2 plant with relatively good fertility and a high GFP signal was crossed into ask1-1: two-antibiotic (kanamycin and hygromycin) selection for both the ask1-1 mutation and the ASK1-GFP transgene in the F2 generation did not eliminate male sterile plants with meiotic defects resembling those in ask1-1. Further, tetrads from the anthers of the sterile T1 and T2 plants contained microspores varying in size and number, reminiscent of the abnormal tetrads in ask1-1 anthers (Fig. 3). This observation suggests that only when the ASK-GFP was expressed simultaneously in male meiocytes as the endogenous ASK1 and had a dominant negative effect, could such effect of the ASK1-GFP on male meiosis be produced. [[FIGURE]]  The dominant negative effect could presumably result from the ASK1-GFP competing with ASK1, ASK2, and possibly other ASKs for binding to the cullins but failing to bind the F-box proteins, depleting the functional SCFs. This is a likely scenario since the GFP is fused to the C-terminus of ASK1, and the C-termini of Skp1 proteins are critical for binding to F-box proteins (Schulman et al. CITATION; Zheng et al. CITATION). The peak level of the ASK1-GFP coincides with the recombination process. To determine whether ASK1 plays a role in recombination, the β-glucuronidase (GUS) recombination reporter line 651 was crossed with ask1-1. 651 contains two partial but overlapping GUS coding regions separated by a hygromycin selection marker. Upon recombination, the function of the GUS gene can be restored with the simultaneous loss of the hygromycin marker (Puchta et al. CITATION; Filkowski et al. CITATION). Therefore, the frequency of either GUS-positive pollen or hygromycin-sensitive plants of the next generation can be used to assess the recombination frequency. Because the transposon insertion in ask1-1 carries a GUS gene that gives a GUS background (not shown), and because ask1-1 is male sterile, the GUS staining approach and the homozygous ask1-1 mutant plants were not employed in this study. Instead, frequencies of hygromycin-sensitive F3 (hyg-/hyg-) plants from F2 plants homozygous for 651 (hyg+/hyg+) but either heterozygous for ask1-1 (ASK1/ask1-1) or being WT at the ASK1 locus (ASK1/ASK1) were investigated. 0.36% of the F3 s (total=839) were hyg-/hyg- when their F2 parents (total=3) were in the hyg+/hyg+ and ASK1/ASK1 background, whereas 2.4% of F3 s (total=901) were hyg-/hyg- when their F2 parents (total=7) were in the hyg+/hyg+ and ASK1/ask1-1 background. Assuming that recombination in female meiosis is not affected by the ask1-1 mutation, the male recombination frequency in the ASK1/ask1-1 plants would be approximately 6.7 (2.4%/0.36%) times of that in the ASK1/ASK1 plants. Even assuming that ask1-1 affects recombination to the same extent in male and female meioses, the recombination frequency in the ASK1/ask1-1 plants would still be approximately 2.6 (√6.7) times of that in the ASK1/ASK1 plants. These results demonstrate that the recombination frequency even in the heterozygous ask1-1 plants was significantly increased. Therefore, ASK1 normally represses recombination in male meiosis. Given that ASK1 is predicted to be involved in proteolysis, these results raise the possibility that ASK1 is normally involved in the proteolysis of proteins that positively regulate recombination.
!~MM~! The ask1-1 and the wild-type (WT) plants were in the Landsberg erecta (Ler) background and grown on artificial soil (Metro-Mix 200, Scotts, Marysville, OH, USA) in a growth chamber at 22°C under a 16-h-light and 8-h-dark photoperiod. For investigating recombination frequency, the recombination marker line 651 (pollen donor; Puchta et al. CITATION; Filkowski et al. CITATION) was crossed with ask1-1, and the F3 plants were grown on plates containing Murashige and Skoog (MS) agar medium supplemented with 10 mg/l hygromycin. A subset of the F3 plants were also grown on a separate set of MS agar plates supplemented with 50 mg/l kanamycin to determine whether their parent (F2) plants were WT at the ASK1 locus, or they were heterozygous or homozygous for the ask1-1 mutation. To detect the transcription of ASK1 and its closest homolog ASK2 during the male meiotic cell cycle, meiocytes at different stages from medial anthers were manually dissected out of each anther under a dissecting scope. The meiocytes in prophase I from each anther locule were released as a cell clump that was manually transferred for RNA extraction (RNAqueous-4PCR kit, Ambion, Austin, TX, USA) with a human hair affixed to a wooden applicator. Meiocytes of later stages were similarly dissected for RNA extraction, except that the tissues other than meiocytes (they could not be picked up as they no longer adhered to one another) were manually removed. Care was taken to minimize damage to the anthers to reduce the chances of contamination by other anther tissues. The cell cycle stage of a sample was determined by observations of the remaining DAPI-stained fixed meiocytes and tapetal cells from the corresponding anther or from another medial anther of the same bud (Wang et al. CITATION, CITATION). mRNAs of ASK1 and ASK2 in the samples were detected using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) followed by a second round of PCR using nested primers. Sample contamination with mRNAs from other cells was assessed by RT-PCR-PCR using nested primers specific to the highly expressed tapetum-specific ATA1 gene (Lebel-Hardenack et al. CITATION). Tapetum is the cell layer surrounding the meiocytes. If ATA1 was not detected, the samples were likely free of contamination. For generation of the ASK1::ASK1-green fluorescence protein (GFP) transgenic plants, a genomic fragment containing 675 base pairs upstream of the ASK1 start codon and the coding region was cloned into the pCAMBIA1302 (http://www.cambia.org/daisy/cambia/585) to create a GFP fusion to the C-terminus of ASK1. The transgene was introduced into WT plants via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (Wang et al. CITATION). T1 seeds were screened for transformants on MS plates supplemented with 10 mg/l hygromycin. The GFP as well as the bright field images were taken using a Nikon E600 fluorescence microscope and a SPOT digital camera, with a fixed exposure time (1 s) and the same brightness and contrast adjustments in Adobe Photoshop 6.0 for the GFP images. Fresh plant samples were used for the GFP studies and their cell cycle stages were similarly determined as those for the RNA preparations.
