!~ABS~! Two class III peroxidases from Arabidopsis, AtPrx33 and Atprx34, have been studied in this paper. Their encoding genes are mainly expressed in roots; AtPrx33 transcripts were also found in leaves and stems. Light activates the expression of both genes in seedlings. Transformed seedlings producing AtPrx33-GFP or AtPrx34-GFP fusion proteins under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter exhibit fluorescence in the cell walls of roots, showing that the two peroxidases are localized in the apoplast, which is in line with their affinity for the Ca2+-pectate structure. The role they can play in cell wall was investigated using (1) insertion mutants that have suppressed or reduced expression of AtPrx33 or AtPrx34 genes, respectively, (2) a double mutant with no AtPrx33 and a reduced level of Atprx34 transcripts, (3) a mutant overexpressing AtPrx34 under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. The major phenotypic consequences of these genetic manipulations were observed on the variation of the length of seedling roots. Seedlings lacking AtPrx33 transcripts have shorter roots than the wild-type controls and roots are still shorter in the double mutant. Seedlings overexpressing AtPrx34 exhibit significantly longer roots. These modifications of root length are accompanied by corresponding changes of cell length. The results suggest that AtPrx33 and Atprx34, two highly homologous Arabidopsis peroxidases, are involved in the reactions that promote cell elongation and that this occurs most likely within cell walls.
!~RES~! To obtain plant lines with a disruption in the AtPrx33 and AtPrx34 genes, we screened the collection of T-DNA insertion mutants of Feldmann (Feldmann et al. CITATION) and the TAIR knockout facility (http://www.arabidopsis.org). We used a PCR strategy with primers specific for T-DNA borders and gene-specific sequence in order to identify T-DNA mutants for AtPrx33 or AtPrx34 genes. A homozygous line with insertions in intron 1 was obtained in the case of atprx33, leading to gene disruption 660 bp downstream of the ATG initiation codons (Fig. 2). A homozygous line with insertion 200 bp upstream of the ATG initiation codons was obtained for atprx34 (Fig. 2). The position of the insert was verified using T-DNA specific primers, the wild-types (Col and Ws) being used as negative control. The homozygosity was confirmed by PCR with gene-specific primers flanking the T-DNA insert. No amplification was observed for the T-DNA mutants (Fig. 3a). The presence of a single insert and the homozygosity were confirmed with the ratio of resistant plants for both lines (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  Reverse transcription-PCR experiments on RNA from atprx33 seedlings indicated the absence of transcripts from this gene in the mutant background, whereas amplification products were readily detectable in the wild-type seedlings (Fig. 3b). Atprx34 transcripts could be slightly detected in the atprx34 mutant, but their level was decreased when compared to the wild-type level in 2-week-old seedlings (Fig. 3c). This means that the transcription of AtPrx34 was not completely abolished by the presence of the insert in the promoter region. High level of AtPrx33 transcripts was detectable in the roots of 5-week-old plants and at a lower extent in leaves and stems. Some transcripts were also found in flowers. In contrast, low levels of AtPrx34 transcripts were detected only in roots (Fig. 4a). AtPrx33 transcripts increased with the age of seedlings, both in light and in the dark (Fig. 4b). AtPrx34 transcripts, present at a much lower level seemed to increase as well. The expression of AtPrx33 was largely lower in the dark than under light (Fig. 4b). In all cases, independently of the organs, the light quantity and the age of the plants, AtPrx33 transcripts were more abundant than AtPrx34 ones. The equivalent efficiency of AtPrx33 and AtPrx34 primer annealing was verified with genomic templates (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  Plants were transformed with Atprx33-GFP and Atprx34-GFP constructs under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. Endogenous promoters were also used, but in that case the expression was too low and the fluorescence could not be observed. Under the control of CaMV 35S, AtPrx33-GFP, and AtPrx34-GFP fusion proteins accumulated in cell walls (Fig. 5c-g). GFP protein alone had a nuclear and cytoplasmic localization (von Arnim et al. CITATION) (Fig. 5a, b). In vitro, recombinant AtPrx33, AtPrx34, and AtPrx37, produced by the baculovirus insect cell system, showed some capacity to bind to the Ca2+-pectate complex, which is mainly found in the middle lamella. Their binding activities were much lower than the binding capacity of AtPrx32 and zucchini APRX, but significant when compared to the lack of binding of horseradish peroxidase (Fig. 6). AtPrx32 and HRPC both show high homology at the protein level with AtPrx33/34 (over 87%), but only the former bears the putative pectate binding domain. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  The length of roots was measured on various transgenic seedlings, including atprx33, atprx34, the AtPrx34 overexpressor 30.2, and the 4.1 RNAi double mutants. Since the mutants were obtained in two different backgrounds, Columbia and Wassilewskija Arabidopsis were also analyzed. The 4.1 double mutants do not contain AtPrx33 transcripts and exhibit a reduction of AtPrx34 mRNA (Fig. 7a). Seedlings containing a T-DNA inserted in the AtPrx34 promoter sequence (atprx34) showed a reduced expression of AtPrx34 and the seedlings containing the 35S::AtPrx34 construct (30.2 line) an accumulation of AtPrx34. atprx34 seedlings had no significant root length variation when compared to the wild-type plants, whereas the 30.2 mutant had clearly longer roots (Fig. 7b). In knocked-out atprx33 plants and in the double mutant (4.1 line), a significant reduction of the root length could be observed (Fig. 7b). The root length reduction is additive when both genes are affected. The fully elongated cells present in the root hair zone were also measured. It appeared that the length of these cells was also significantly reduced in atprx33 and 4.1 mutants and increased in 30.2 mutant. [[FIGURE]]  In order to determine the heritability of the mutation in mutant lines, homozygous transgenic plants were crossed with corresponding wild-type ecotypes. The F1 (for overexpressor lines) and the F2 progenies (for the atprx33 mutant) showed the appropriate root phenotype (data not shown). The co-segregation of the resistance and of the phenotype confirmed that the mutations related to AtPrx33 and AtPrx34 are directly responsible for the modification of the root length. Finally, complementation assays were performed by introducing the AtPrx33::AtPrxP33-GFP-Term construct in knocked-out atprx33 plants. A significant increase of root and root cell lengths was observed and compared to atprx33 plants in a complemented line. There was no significant difference between this complemented line and the Ws wild-type control (Fig. 8). [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! The Columbia (Col) and Wassilewskija (Ws) ecotypes of Arabidopsis thaliana were used as wild-type controls. Plants were grown in soil or on ½ MS medium (Murashige and Skoog CITATION) at 24°C under 16 h light/8 h dark and 60% humidity. For the in vitro culture, the light intensity was strictly controlled and fixed at 120 μmol photons m-2 s-1. The T-DNA lines CS10885 mutated for AtPrx33 (in Ws background) and SALK_051769 mutated for AtPrx34 (in Col background) were isolated from the Feldmann collection (Feldmann et al. CITATION) and from the SALK T-DNA insertion lines (Alonso et al. CITATION), respectively. All seed lines are available from the stock center of TAIR (http://www.arabidopsis.org). The collection of T-DNA insertion mutants from K. Feldmann (Feldmann et al. CITATION) was screened by PCR using the AtPrx33 sense primer 5′-ATGCAATTCTCTTCATCTTC-3′, in combination with the T-DNA-specific primer CD5LB 5′-ATGCAATCGATATCAGCAGCCAATTTTA- 3′. A search in the TAIR database (http://www.arabidopsis.org) revealed a T-DNA insertion within the promoter region of AtPrx34 (SALK_051769). The precise location of the insert was determined by DNA sequence analysis of a PCR amplification product that was obtained with the AtPrx34 reverse primer 5′-TCCAAGTGGACGATGTTGAAG-3′ and the T-DNA right border primer CD5RB 5′-GCTCAGGATCCGATTGTCGTTTCCCGCCTT-3′. PCR amplification was carried out with 0.2 mM dNTPs, 0.4 μM of each primer, 10× Taq buffer, and 1 unit of Taq polymerase (Sigma) in a volume of 20 μl. The amplification program consisted of an initial denaturation at 95°C for 1 min followed by 35–40 cycles of denaturation at 94°C for 1 min, annealing at 55°C for 1 min, polymerization at 72°C for 90 s, and a final extension at 72°C for 10 min. Homozygous insertion mutants in AtPrx33 and AtPrx34 were identified by PCR amplification with gene-specific primers (sense primer for AtPrx33 and reverse primer for AtPrx34 as described above and the reverse primer 5′-TGTTTGTGTGCCATC-3′ and sense 5′-TTGAAAGGTCGTCGAGGAGT-3′ for AtPrx33 and AtPrx34, respectively). The following constructs (Fig. 1c, d, e) have been designed with the purpose of studying the localization in planta of the AtPrx33 and AtPrx34 proteins and the role of the promoter sequence in this localization. AtPrx33 and AtPrx34 coding sequences lacking the stop codon were cloned in frame in pAVA 393 (von Arnim et al. CITATION), respectively, with KpnI/XhoI and NcoI/XhoI. The AtPrx33-GFP and AtPrx34-GFP constructs were subcloned in pCHF3 binary vector with KpnI and BglII. 3.3 kb PCR fragment containing 1.2 kb of AtPrx33 promoter sequence and the genomic sequence of AtPrx33 was cloned with KpnI and XhoI in frame in pAVA 393. The AtPrx33::AtPrxP33-GFP-Term construct obtained was subcloned in pZP222 (Hajdukiewicz et al. CITATION) with KpnI and BglII. 3.3 kb PCR fragment containing 1 kb of AtPrx34 promoter sequence and the genomic sequence of AtPrx34 has been cloned with HindIII and NcoI in pAVA 393. The AtPrx34::AtPrx34-GFP-Term construct has been subcloned in pZP211 binary vector with KpnI and PstI. [[FIGURE]]  A third construct used as control has been obtained by cloning 35S::GFP-Term in pCGN1547 (McBride and Summerfelt CITATION). The sequences of the individual primers are as follows (engineered restriction sites are underlined): AtPrx33, 5′-GGGGTACCGCTTGGTTTGGTTTCCATTG-3′, 5′- GGGGTACC ATGCAATTCTCTTCATCTTC-3′ and 5′- CCGTTCTCGAGACATAGAACTTACAAAGTC -3′ and AtPrx34, 5′-CCCAAGCTTTGGATTTCTTC-3′, 5′-CCGCTCGAG ATGCATTTCTCTTCGTCTT-3′ and 5′-CATGCCATGGGCATAGAGCTAACAAAGTC-3′. For the GFP analysis, seedlings were counterstained with 10 μg/ml propidium iodide and placed on slides in a drop of water. The GFP fluorescence was imaged with an Axioplan2 Zeiss microscope with narrow band excitation (470±20 nm) and emission (510±20 nm) filters (Chroma Technology Corp, VT, USA) and using the Metamorph software (Molecular Devices Corp, CA, USA). For the overexpression experiment, AtPrx34 cDNA sequence under the control of CaMV 35S (Fig. 1b) was cloned in pCHF3 vector using KpnI and BamHI. From the transgenic plants that have been obtained, only the line “30.2” has been used for an extensive phenotype study. The RNAi construct with the whole AtPrx34 cDNA (Fig. 1a) has been obtained in three successive steps in pBluescript KS+. The cDNA has been cloned in the antisense orientation with EcoRI and BamHI. A linker of 700 bp has been cloned into the previous plasmid with HindIII and XhoI. The final 43xrPtA-linker-AtPrx34 construct has been obtained by a three-way ligation: the 43xrPtA -linker opened with XbaI and XhoI and the AtPrx34 opened with XhoI and PstI was subcloned into pCHF5 with XbaI and PstI. The capacity of the construct to form a hairpin loop has been controlled before plant transformation using an exonuclease after denaturation and quick renaturation. The construct was used to transform the atprx33 insertion knock-out mutant, thus resulting in a double-transgenic line called “4.1”. Complementation assays have been performed by transforming atprx33 T-DNA mutant with the AtPrx33::AtPrxP33-GFP-Term construct. Root and root cell lengths were determined in homozygous complemented lines. RT PCR using specific primers spanning the junction site Atprx33-GFP verified the level of AtPrx33 transcript. All plasmids were introduced into Arabidopsis Col ecotype (except 4.1 double mutant in Ws) by Agrobacterium-tumefaciens-mediated transformation using the spraying technique (Bent CITATION). Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain ASE was used in all cases. The transformants were selected on ½ MS medium containing 50 μg/ml kanamycin or 40 μg/ml Basta, depending on the binary vector used. The presence of the transgenes in all transgenic plants was confirmed by genomic PCR using primers specific in each case. The length of the roots and cells was measured on one-week old seedlings grown in square boxes placed in vertical position. Root length was measured on 40–50 seedlings from several independent batches. Cell length was determined by measuring 200 cells in the root hair zone from six independent seedlings. For this purpose, roots were stained with 10−4 M DAPI and observed at a 10× magnification by fluorescence with an Axioplan2 Zeiss microscope (excitation: 359±50 nm, emission: 460±50 nm), using the Metamorph software for measurement. Differences between wild-type and transgenic seedlings were evaluated for every measurement assay using a 1-way between subjects ANOVA test (Analyse-it Software, v.1.71). Reverse transcriptase-PCR was used as a semiquantitiative method to assess the expression of peroxidase genes. Leaves, stems, flowers, and roots from 5-week old plants were harvested and frozen immediately in liquid nitrogen. Approximately, 100 mg of tissue sample was ground in liquid nitrogen, and total RNA was extracted with the Tri-reagent solution (Sigma) according to the instructions of the manufacturer. After quantification of the concentration by spectrophotometry and confirmation by electrophoresis, 1 μg of the crude RNA preparations was treated with one unit of RNase-free DNase I (Promega). The DNA-free RNA was then used as a template during reverse transcription according to the ImPromII RT protocol from Promega. PCR amplification was conducted for up to 40 cycles using the following thermal profile: denaturation at 95°C for 1 min, annealing at 55°C for 1 min, and polymerization at 72°C for 30 s, with a 10 min terminal extension step at 72°C. To determine whether comparable amounts of RNA from the different tissues had been used for RT-PCR, the level of AtPrx42 transcript was used as a constitutive control. Indeed, AtPrx42 is strongly expressed in all Arabidopsis organs (Tognolli et al. CITATION; Valério et al. CITATION), it is the most abundant peroxidase in Arabidopsis (505 ESTs were found from a total of 353 000 ESTs indexed in TIGR) and its expression was found strong and stable independently of the age of the plants, various treatments and growth conditions in reverse transcription assays (data not shown). Reactions without RT were used to rule out contamination by genomic DNA. Primers used to determine the homozygosity have also been used for RT-PCR. The following primers were used for AtPrx42 cDNA: 5′-GGTCCATCGTTTGTACCCT-3′ and 5′-CCCCTGTCTTTCTCACTTTT-3′. Quantification of the RT-PCR bands on agarose was performed with the software QuantityOne (BioRad). The results shown in Fig. 4 represent the sum of four bands resulting from four independent experiments for each condition (light/dark).  The cDNA sequences encoding AtPrx33, AtPrx34 and AtPrx37 without the signal peptide have been cloned, respectively, with BamHI/PstI, BamHI/EcoRI, and BamHI/XbaI into pVL1392 vector (Pharmingen, San Diego, CA, USA) and expressed in baculovirus-insect cells (Carpin et al. CITATION). After purification, the resulting recombinant proteins were tested for their binding capacities. The binding of peroxidases to the Ca2+-pectate gel was assessed by centrifugation as already described (Penel and Greppin CITATION). APRX, an anionic peroxidase from zucchini (Carpin et al. CITATION) and AtPrx32 from Arabidopsis (Dunand et al. CITATION) have been used as positive controls. A horseradish peroxidase mixture containing mainly the HRPC isoform (Fluka, Buchs, Switzerland) was used as a negative control for the binding activity. The assays were performed in a total volume of 100 μl containing the same level of guaicol peroxidase activity (0.025 0D470nm/min). The 1,000-bp region upstream each peroxidase gene was analyzed using PLACE and PlantCARE softwares (http://www.dna.affrc.go.jp/htdocs/PLACE and oberon.rug.ac.be:8080/PlantCARE).
