!~ABS~! PHOSPHATE TRANSPORTER1 (PHT1) genes encode phosphate (Pi) transporters that play a fundamental role in Pi acquisition and remobilization in plants. Mutation of the Arabidopsis thaliana PHOSPHATE TRANSPORTER TRAFFIC FACILITATOR1 (PHF1) impairs Pi transport, resulting in the constitutive expression of many Pi starvation–induced genes, increased arsenate resistance, and reduced Pi accumulation. PHF1 expression was detected in all tissues, particularly in roots, flowers, and senescing leaves, and was induced by Pi starvation, thus mimicking the expression patterns of the whole PHT1 gene family. PHF1 was localized in endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and mutation of PHF1 resulted in ER retention and reduced accumulation of the plasma membrane PHT1;1 transporter. By contrast, the PIP2A plasma membrane protein was not mislocalized, and the secretion of Pi starvation–induced RNases was not affected in the mutant. PHF1 encodes a plant-specific protein structurally related to the SEC12 proteins of the early secretory pathway. However, PHF1 lacks most of the conserved residues in SEC12 proteins essential as guanine nucleotide exchange factors. Although it functions in early secretory trafficking, PHF1 likely evolved a novel mechanism accompanying functional specialization on Pi transporters. The identification of PHF1 reveals that plants are also endowed with accessory proteins specific for selected plasma membrane proteins, allowing their exit from the ER, and that these ER exit cofactors may have a phylum-specific origin.
!~RES~! We screened an ethyl methanesulfonate–mutagenized M2 population of a transgenic line harboring the Pi starvation–responsive IPS1:β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene (CITATION) for mutants displaying constitutive expression of IPS1:GUS, as assessed using a nondestructive GUS staining assay (Martin et al., 2000; CITATION). Putative mutants were identified as follows. Nine-day-old seedlings (∼20,000) grown in Pi-rich medium were stained for GUS activity for 5 h, during which time plates were examined every hour. Two seedlings showing GUS activity were selected, and M3 progeny were obtained for both of them. After preliminary phenotypic analysis, one of the mutants, constitutively displaying many Pi starvation responses and high arsenate resistance (see below), was selected for further analysis. The corresponding gene was named PHF1 after functional characterization (see below). We took advantage of the increased arsenate resistance phenotype of phf1-1 to screen for additional phf1 alleles. After prescreening 50,000 seedlings for arsenate resistance (large roots with hairs in plants grown in 10 ppm arsenate), followed by analysis of GUS activity in the progeny, we identified a single additional mutant (phf1-2) resembling phf1-1 phenotypically. Results from crossing experiments indicated that the mutants were recessive and allelic (data not shown). For further analysis, the phf1-1 allele was backcrossed three times with the wild-type transgenic reporter line. Several developmental and metabolic traits influenced by Pi starvation and the expression of five Pi starvation response genes were analyzed. For the analysis of developmental and metabolic traits, plants were grown under different Pi regimens. The phf1 mutation resulted in visible IPS1:GUS activity in plants grown under a Pi-rich regimen, although when grown in a Pi-deficient medium, GUS activity was lower in phf1 than in wild-type plants (Figure 1A). In addition, both phf1 alleles displayed reduced growth under low-Pi regimens, increased anthocyanin accumulation (evident in plants grown at moderately low Pi concentrations), and increased root hair number and size, compared with wild-type plants, as shown in Figure 1B for phf1-1. This effect of the mutations on growth and anthocyanin accumulation was not general for other nutrients, as mutants and wild-type plants were indistinguishable when grown under different nitrogen regimens (data not shown). phf1 mutant alleles also displayed an increased root-to-shoot growth ratio when grown under Pi-rich conditions (P < 0.02, using Student's t test), but as with GUS activity, the root-to-shoot growth ratio was reduced in both alleles compared with wild-type plants when assayed in Pi-starved plants (although only for the phf1-2 allele was the difference statistically significant; P < 0.03) (Figure 1C). The analysis of Pi content revealed that mutation of PHF1 impairs Pi accumulation when grown under high-Pi conditions (Figure 1C). To evaluate whether the effect on Pi accumulation could be attributable to impaired Pi uptake, we performed Pi uptake experiments and as a control we also examined SO42− uptake (Figure 1C). Wild-type plants grown in low Pi (60 μM) could take up five times more Pi than the phf1 mutant (P < 0.006), whereas no statistically significant difference between the wild type and mutant was observed when SO42− uptake was analyzed under similar conditions. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that Pi uptake was affected in the phf1 mutants, we measured arsenate resistance. Arsenate is an ion structurally analogous to Pi and is transported into plants through the high-affinity Pi transporters (CITATION; CITATION). phf1 mutants displayed higher arsenate resistance than wild-type plants, particularly in a larger development of the root system, including root hairs, compared with that of the wild type when grown in the presence of this toxic compound (Figure 1D). To evaluate the degree of specificity of the phf1 mutation on Pi uptake, we performed elemental analysis of mutant and wild-type plants grown in complete medium (Figure 1E). The greatest difference between the wild type and mutants was in P content, which was reduced to 60% of wild-type levels in the mutants (P < 0.02). Additionally, the content of other elements was different in the wild type and mutants, although these differences were not statistically significant for either of the two alleles and in most cases were the result of increased rather than decreased accumulation of these elements. The effect of the phf1 mutant alleles on the expression of Pi starvation–responsive genes was examined using RNA gel blot analysis. Five Arabidopsis Pi starvation–responsive genes were analyzed: IPS1 and At4, members of the MT4/TPS1 family, and PHT1;1, ATACP5, and RNS1, encoding a high-affinity Pi transporter, an acid phosphatase, and a RNase, respectively (reviewed in CITATION). For all genes except RNS1, expression was enhanced in the mutants compared with the wild type during growth under Pi-rich conditions (Figure 2A). In plants grown in Pi-deficient medium, gene expression was further increased both in the wild type and in mutant plants. However, in this case, Pi starvation–responsive genes displayed reduced expression in the mutant compared with the wild type, with the exception of RNS1, whose expression was unaltered by the phf1 mutations (Figure 2A). [[FIGURE]] The reason for this effect on the expression of Pi starvation–responsive genes in the mutant grown under Pi-limiting conditions needs to be investigated further, but we have observed that a mutation of the Pi transporter, PHT1;1, also results in reductions in many Pi starvation responses (P. Catarecha, M.D. Segura, B.G. de León, R. Solano, L. Romero, J. Paz-Ares, and A. Leyva, unpublished data). Pi starvation–responsive genes are affected by cytokinins and sugars, which repress and stimulate their expression, respectively (CITATION). To determine whether the effects of these signaling molecules are altered in phf1 mutants, we examined the effects of the mutations on IPS1:GUS activity upon treatment with sugars and cytokinins (Figure 2B). The response of phf1 mutants to cytokinins and sucrose was similar to that of wild-type plants. Together, these data indicate that phf1 affects Pi transport directly and that this effect is largely specific to this nutrient, because transport of other nutrients/signaling molecules is greatly unaffected in phf1 mutants. To understand how PHF1 works, we first undertook positional cloning on the basis of a cross between the phf1-1 mutant allele (Columbia [Col-0] ecotype) and the Landsberg erecta (Ler) background. Genotyping of 500 mutant plants allowed us to map the mutation on chromosome 3 to a region of ∼150 kb between genes At3g51895 and At3g52360 (Figure 3A). Two candidate genes were selected in this region on the basis of Pi starvation responsiveness (At3g52180 and At3g52190; our unpublished results based on microarray transcriptome-wide analysis of the effect of Pi starvation on gene expression). Sequencing of the At3g52190 gene, whose Pi starvation responsiveness was also detected by CITATION in microarray-based experiments, revealed that it contained mutations in both phf1 alleles (G-to-A transitions in nucleotides 81 and 960 of the coding sequence, respectively, in which the A of the predicted start codon is defined as nucleotide 1), which results in the replacement of Trp residues (Trp-27 and Trp-320, respectively) with stop codons (Figure 3A). [[FIGURE]] Transformation of the phf1-1 allele with a genomic region of 6 kb, spanning the coding region of At3g52190 plus sequences 2.7 kb upstream of the start codon and 0.5 kb downstream of the stop codon, or with a cDNA spanning the whole coding region (see Methods) under the control of the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus, rescued the wild-type phenotype in 9 of 13 and 10 of 15 transformants, respectively, as shown in Figure 3B with respect to IPS1:GUS expression and arsenate resistance. The PHF1 mRNA translates into a hypothetical protein of 398 amino acid residues. Database searches identified highly related proteins in various plants (tomato [Lycopersicon esculentum] and rice, the latter shown in Figure 3C), representing putative functional homologs. Significant similarities were also found with members of the SEC12 family, especially from plants (Figure 3C). The SEC12 family consists of a group of proteins quite heterogeneous in primary structure, participating in the formation of COPII vesicles involved in the ER exit of proteins entering the secretory system. Despite sequence divergence, all SEC12 proteins are type II integral membrane proteins located in the ER, with a cytoplasmic domain displaying guanine exchange factor activity predicted to adopt a β-propeller structure with seven WD40 repeats (CITATION). Sequence alignment of PHF1 with putative homologs from rice and tomato, and members of the SEC12 protein family from plants, animals, and fungi (Figure 3C; only a subset of known SEC12/PHF1 sequences is shown, but residues conserved among all known SEC12 proteins are highlighted), revealed that out of the 156 residues conserved within PHF1 homologs, 50 were conserved in all plant SEC12 proteins analyzed. Additionally, out of the 23 residues conserved between plant and animal SEC12 proteins, 13 are conserved in all PHF1 homologs, more than that conserved between all SEC12 proteins (10 residues). Notably, however, out of the 10 residues shared by all known SEC12 proteins, only 1 is conserved in the PHF1 proteins examined, strongly suggesting functional specialization of PHF1 involving a mechanism of action divergent from that of SEC12 (see Discussion). Overall structural conservation was first evaluated using the structure prediction metaserver GENESILICO (CITATION), which predicted that PHF1 proteins have seven WD40 repeats related to the C-terminal region of Tup1 (score 1e-81; CITATION). These seven WD40 repeats are very similar to those predicted by CITATION) for SEC12 proteins, suggesting strongly that, despite functional divergence, overall secondary structure is conserved between PHF1 and SEC12 proteins. Additionally, the use of the SMART program (CITATION) predicted a transmembrane domain in all PHF1 and SEC12 proteins. A premature stop codon in both phf1-1 and phf1-2 eliminates this transmembrane domain in the encoded proteins and probably results in complete loss of function. A phylogram of representative PHF1 and SEC12 proteins was constructed using PHYLIP software (CITATION) (Figure 3D; Supplemental Figure 1 online shows the alignment of all SEC12/PHF1 sequences used to construct the phylogram). The result showed a close phylogenetic relation between PHF1 and plant SEC12 proteins (bootstrap value for the node separating proteins from the plant phyla: 1000 out of 1000 samples; Figure 3D), indicating that most likely PHF1 proteins originated from a plant-specific SEC12 ancestral protein. In conclusion, PHF1 displays remarkable structural similarity to SEC12 proteins but lacks highly conserved residues in SEC12 proteins. To gain insights into the functional implications of these differences between PHF1 and SEC12, we examined whether Arabidopsis PHF1 could functionally replace SEC12 in yeast. To this end, we cloned Arabidopsis PHF1 and SEC12 (STL2P) open reading frames in p181A1NE (CITATION) under the control of the constitutive ADH promoter and transformed a temperature-sensitive sec12 mutant of yeast. In accordance with previous reports (CITATION), Arabidopsis SEC12 (STL2P) could rescue the growth defect of the mutant yeast at 37°C; however, PHF1 could not (Figure 3E). To gain information on the cellular function of PHF1, we examined its subcellular localization. Two chimeric genes were prepared, one corresponding to a fusion between the promoter plus the coding region of PHF1 and the green fluorescent protein (GFP) coding region at the 3′ end. In the second, the promoter region of PHF1 was replaced by the 35S promoter. In both cases, the fusion protein could rescue the wild-type phenotype of phf1, indicating functionality of the reporter protein (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Confocal microscopy was used to examine the subcellular localization of the fusion proteins in Pi-starved plants. The PHF1:GFP protein expressed from both constructs emitted a fluorescence signal (Figure 4) resembling that of ER-localized proteins. In epidermis of 35S:PHF1:GFP plants, fluorescence of the reticulate network and of typical patches where ER lamellae converge was very evident (Figure 4B). To further assess the ER localization of PHF1, a transgenic plant harboring 35S:PHF1:GFP was bombarded with an ER marker prepared according to CITATION). The marker consisted of the coding region of DsRed2 fused at its 5′ end to a sequence encoding a signal peptide and at its 3′ end to an oligonucleotide encoding an ER retention signal (KDEL; see Methods). As shown in Figure 4, both fluorescence signals greatly overlap, establishing the localization of PHF1. The ER localization of PHF1 was also inferred with high confidence using LOPIT (for Localization of Organelle Proteins by Isotope Tagging; score 0.89) (CITATION; T. Dunkley and K. Lilley, personal communication). [[FIGURE]] In wild-type plants, PHT1;1 is localized to the plasma membrane, where it actively transports Pi to the cell (CITATION). Because phf1 displays impaired Pi transport, we tested whether PHF1 is involved in proper trafficking of the Pi transporter to the plasma membrane. Two types of construct were prepared in which the expression of PHT1;1:GFP was driven by its own promoter or by the 35S promoter. These constructs were used to transform both wild-type and phf1 plants. Confocal microscopy revealed that in transgenic plants starved of Pi for 8 d harboring either construct, fluorescence highlighted the plasma membrane in wild-type plants (Figures 5A and 5C). In particular, in the 35S:PHT1;1:GFP plants, the fluorescence highlighted cell junctions very clearly (Figure 5C). In contrast with wild-type plants, in phf1 plants fluorescence by PHT1;1:GFP was observed in the ER (Figures 5B and 5D). [[FIGURE]] Localization of PHT1;1:GFP could only be studied in Pi-starved plants because of the low expression of the construct in Pi-rich plants, but it could be observed under both Pi regimens in 35S:PHT1;1:GFP transgenic plants. In Pi-rich plants, localization of PHT1;1:GFP was also found in the plasma membrane, although cell junctions were not so evident (see Supplemental Figure 3 online), similar to the results of CITATION. The reason for the difference regarding the frequency/amount of PHT1;1:GFP in cell junctions between Pi-starved and nonstarved leaf epidermal cells remains to be studied. Several lines of circumstantial evidence, including the similar elemental compositions (excepting P) of phf1 and wild-type plants and similar responses to cytokinins and sugars during the Pi starvation response, suggested that phf1 plants did not have a general defect in protein trafficking. To confirm this, we examined the effect of the mutation on the localization of PIP2A, a plasma membrane protein unrelated to Pi nutrition, and in the secretion of Pi starvation RNases. A construct expressing the 35S:PIP2A:GFP fusion protein (CITATION) was used to transform both wild-type and phf1 plants. Confocal microscopy analysis of plants grown in rich medium revealed no differences in the subcellular localization of PIP2A between wild-type and phf1 plants (Figure 6A). [[FIGURE]] Secreted RNase activity was analyzed both in the Pi-starved wild type and in phf1 mutants. As with PIP2A, no difference could be detected between wild-type and mutant plants in the activity of secreted RNases (Figure 6B). The functional characteristics of PHF1 classify this protein as an accessory protein involved in the ER exit of PHT1;1 (and probably other related Pi transporters; see Discussion). The fact that PHF1 is detected only in the ER suggests that it likely exerts its role as an outfitter (CITATION), helping PHT1;1 (and possibly related proteins) to adopt a secretion-competent conformation. In agreement with this, preliminary data from the analysis of independent transgenic lines of wild-type and phf1 plants transformed with the 35S:PHT1;1:GFP gene construct indicated that average fluorescence was higher in the wild type than in the mutant background. To confirm this possibility on the effect of phf1 on PHT1;1 accumulation, a wild-type transgenic line harboring a 35S:PHT1;1:GFP gene construct at a single locus and displaying detectable levels of PHT1;1:GFP was crossed with the phf1 mutant and with a line overexpressing PHF1, and homozygous plants were obtained for all genotypes. In these lines, PHT1;1:GFP accumulation was examined by inmunoblotting. As shown in Figure 7 (top panel), PHT1;1:GFP accumulation was lower in the mutant and higher in the PHF1 overexpressor line than in the wild type. Moreover, RNA gel blot analysis indicated that PHT1;1:GFP RNA, whose expression is driven by the constitutive 35S promoter, accumulated more strongly in the phf1 mutant than in the wild-type and PHF1-overexpressing transgenic plants (Figure 7, bottom panel). These results suggest a role for PHF1 in facilitating PHT1;1 to adopt a proper conformation and also that there is a promoter-independent feedback mechanism controlling PHT1;1 protein accumulation. Such a regulatory mechanism is also influenced by the plant Pi status, in agreement with the increased needs of Pi transport under these conditions. [[FIGURE]] The study of PHF1 expression and its possible control by the key Pi starvation transcription factor regulator PHR1 was performed using RNA gel blot analysis. First, RNA was prepared from different aerial parts of adult plants grown in soil under Pi-sufficient conditions for 4 weeks and from roots of 2-week-old plants grown on agar plates (Figure 8A). PHF1 showed detectable expression in all organs examined and was most pronounced in flowers, senescing leaves, and roots. Subsequently, the response to different nutrient deficiencies was examined. PHF1 again showed a basal level of expression in all types of nutrient-deficient medium, except in Pi-deficient medium, in which PHF1 accumulation was highly enhanced. This behavior was similar to that of the Pi starvation–specific IPS1 gene (Figure 8B) (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We next tested the effect of the phr1 and phf1 mutations on PHF1 expression in plants grown in Pi-rich or Pi-lacking medium (Figure 8C). PHF1 showed decreased expression in both phr1 and phf1 mutants compared with the wild type, although to different extents with respect to IPS1. The higher reduction of phf1 mRNA in phf1 could, in part, reflect instability of the phf1 transcript caused by the fact that it encodes a truncated protein, and the lower reduction of PHF1 RNA in phr1 could reflect partial redundancy between PHR1 and related homologs, which is manifested differently in different Pi-responsive genes (CITATION).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotypes used in this study were Col-0 and Ler. Growth conditions and media were as described previously (CITATION), except where indicated for nutrient, sucrose, and hormone concentrations. In the Pi-lacking medium, KH2PO4 was replaced by equimolar amounts of KCl; in nitrogen-lacking medium, Ca(NO3)2 and KNO3 were replaced by CaCl2 and K2SO4, respectively; in K-lacking medium, KH2PO4, KNO3, KCl, and KOH were replaced by NaH2PO4, NaNO3, NaCl, and NaOH respectively; in iron-deficient medium, FeSO4 was removed; and in sulfur-lacking medium, MgSO4, MnSO4, ZnSO4, and CuSO4 were replaced by Mg(NO3)2, MnCl2, ZnCl2, and CuCl2, respectively. Arsenate resistance was examined in Pi-lacking medium supplemented with Na2AsO4·H2O (10 ppm). Cellular Pi was measured according to the method of CITATION in plants grown for 12 d in complete or Pi-lacking medium. Pi and SO42− uptake experiments were performed as described by CITATION with minor modification. Plants were grown for 8 d in solid complete medium except for Pi or SO42−, the concentration of which was reduced to 60 μM. Uptake measurements were made after incubation of submerged roots of plants in a solution with a 32Pi or 35SO42− concentration corresponding to complete medium. Elemental analysis was performed by the Serveis Cientificotècnics of the Universitat de Barcelona, except the C, N, and S analyses, which were performed by the Elemental Microanalysis Center at the Universidad Complutense de Madrid. Whole plant samples were dried for 48 h and subsequently digested with HNO3 and H2O2 at 200°C and with HF at 120°C. Ca, Na, K, P, Fe, and Zn were determined by inductively coupled plasma emission spectroscopy using the Perkin-Elmer Optima 3200 RL equipment. Mn, Cu, Mo, and Cd were performed by inductively coupled plasma–mass spectrometry using Perkin-Elmer ELAN 6000 equipment. C, N, and S were determined by combustion at 1200°C of powdered plants using a LECO CHNS 932 analyzer. Mean values were compared by use of Student's t test. phf1 mutant plants were backcrossed three times to wild-type plants (Col-0) to test the linkage of the different phenotypes to a single recessive mutation. For mapping purposes, phf1-1 plants (Col-0 ecotype) were crossed to wild-type plants of the Ler ecotype. DNA from F2 seedlings displaying mutant phenotypes was prepared and used to analyze the linkage of the phf1-1 mutation to previously described simple sequence length polymorphism (CITATION) and cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequence (CITATION) markers. PHF1 was mapped to chromosome 3 between ALS1 and AFC1 markers. To identify the mutant gene, the Cereon collection of nucleotide polymorphisms between ecotypes Col and Ler (http://www.arabidopsis.org/cereon/index.html) was used to generate new markers in the area surrounding PHF1. Routine molecular work was performed as described previously, except where indicated (CITATION; CITATION). The sequences of the PCR primers used for amplification of different genomic DNA/cDNA fragments are given in Supplemental Table 1 online. For complementation experiments, a 6-kb genomic fragment of DNA containing the coding region of PHF1 was amplified by PCR. The PCR product was cloned into pBIB (CITATION), generating gPHF1. The PHF1 cDNA was obtained by RT-PCR and cloned into pBIB35S, a 35S promoter–containing vector derived from pBIB. Fusions to GFP were made using the pGWB vectors based on Clontech Gateway technology (kindly provided by Tsuyoshi Nakagawa). The genomic fragments for the PHF1:GFP and PHT1;1:GFP constructs were cloned into pGWB4. The genomic fragments (coding region) for the 35S:PHF1:GFP and 35S:PHT1;1:GFP constructs were cloned into pGWB5. In all cases, the resulting vectors were introduced into the C58CI strain of Agrobacterium tumefaciens, and Arabidopsis phf1 plants were transformed as described (CITATION). The ER marker gene (35S:DsRed2:KDEL) was constructed according to CITATION and cloned into the pAVA393 vector (CITATION) by changing GFP5 for DsRed2. The 35S:DsRed2:KDEL fusion was transiently expressed by particle bombardment into leaves of Arabidopsis plants harboring the 35S:PHF1:GFP construct, using a helium-driven particle accelerator (PDS-1000/He; Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer's recommendations. Five micrograms of plasmid was used for each transformation event. Leaves were transferred for 48 h to Pi-lacking medium before microscopic analysis. Complementation tests in yeasts were performed using PHF1 and STL2P open reading frames (CITATION) cloned into p181A1NE (CITATION). Transformation of the resulting constructs into the Saccharomyces cerevisiae sec12 mutant (RSY653; CITATION) was made according to CITATION). Transformants were grown on yeast peptone dextrose medium at 25 and 37°C for 3 d. Bombarded tissues and transgenic plants were first screened at low magnification using an epifluorescence microscope (Leica DM-R). GFP fluorescence was excited at 470/40 nm and subsequently passed through a 525/50-nm emission filter. DsRed2 was excited at 546/10 nm and subsequently passed through a 590-nm emission filter. Plant tissues were dissected and mounted in water for viewing with a Zeiss Axiovert 200 confocal microscope coupled to the Bio-Rad Radiance 2100 laser scanning confocal imaging system with LaserSharp version 5 imaging software. GFP fluorescence was excited at 488 nm using an argon ion laser and subsequently passed through a 515/30-nm emission filter excluding chlorophyll autofluorescence. DsRed2 was excited at 543 nm using a helium/neon laser and subsequently passed through a 570LP emission filter. Before preliminary screening and confocal microscopy, the seedlings were stained with propidium iodide (CITATION) to avoid cell wall autofluorescence produced by excitation at 470/40 nm and 488 nm. To assay for secreted RNase activity, plants were grown in complete liquid medium for 5 d and then transferred to Pi-sufficient or Pi-deficient medium for 7 d. The liquid medium was collected for analysis. Protein (25 μg/sample) was loaded onto 12% Tris-Gly nondenaturing PAGE gels (NuPAGE system; Invitrogen). Staining for RNase activity on native gels was performed as described by CITATION. The analysis of PHT1;1:GFP by protein gel blotting was as follows. Plantlets were ground to powder in liquid nitrogen and extracted in Laemmli buffer (CITATION). Protein (25 μg/sample) was loaded onto 4 to 12% Bis-Tris SDS-PAGE gels (NuPAGE system) and then transferred to nylon membranes (Amersham). PHT1;1:GFP was detected with anti-GFP antibodies (Roche Diagnostics), and bands were revealed by Supersignal West Pico chemiluminescent substrate (Pierce). Finally, membranes were stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R 250 (CITATION). Databank searches (Swissprot, European Molecular Biology Laboratory, and National Center for Biotechnology Information) were performed using the BLAST program (CITATION). Sequence alignment was made using the T-COFFEE program (CITATION; http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/TCoffee.html). Structural prediction was made using GENESILICO (CITATION; http://genesilico.pl/meta) and the SMART program (CITATION). The phylogram was constructed based on the alignment obtained with T-COFFEE and the PROTPARS program of the PHYLIP software package (CITATION; http://evolution.genetics.washington.edu/phylip/doc/main.html). Samples for bootstrapping (1000 samples) and the consensus tree and bootstrapping values were obtained with the SEQBOOT and CONSENSE programs, respectively, also from the PHYLIP software package. Visualization of the tree was performed using the ATV program (http://www.genetics.wustl.edu/eddy/atv/). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative/GenBank data libraries under the following accession numbers: PHF1 (Arabidopsis PHF1), At3g52190; LePHF1 (Lycopersicon esculentum PHF1), 47105805; OsPHF1 (Oryza sativa PHF1), 32984969; STL2P (Arabidopsis SEC12 ortholog), At2g01470; OsSEC12 (O. sativa SEC12 ortholog), 37988440; CeSEC12 (Caenorhabditis elegans SEC12 ortholog), 17508005; DmSEC12 (Drosophila melanogaster SEC12 ortholog), 7297075; HsPREB (Homo sapiens SEC12 ortholog), 17368974; ScSEC12 (Saccharomyces cerevisiae SEC12), 6325353; SpSTL1 (Schizosaccharomyces pombe SEC12 ortholog), 173493. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Table 1. Oligonucleotides Used for the Preparation of the Different Constructs. Supplemental Figure 1. Alignment of Arabidopsis PHF1 with Presumed Functional PHF1 Homologs and with SEC12 Proteins Using the Program T-COFFEE. Supplemental Figure 2. Complementation of phf1 with Constructs Expressing a Functional PHF1:GFP Fusion Protein. Supplemental Figure 3. Subcellular Localization of PHT1;1:GFP in Wild-Type Plants Grown under a Pi-Rich Regimen.
