!~ABS~! Degradation of lipid peroxides leads to the formation of cytotoxic 2-alkenals and oxenes (collectively designated reactive carbonyls). The novel NADPH-dependent oxidoreductase 2-alkenal reductase (AER; EC 1.3.1.74) from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), which is encoded by the gene At5g16970, catalyzes the reduction of the α,β-unsaturated bond of reactive carbonyls, and hence is presumed to function in antioxidative defense in plants. Here we show that Arabidopsis AER (At-AER) has a broad substrate spectrum to biologically relevant reactive carbonyls. Besides 2-alkenals, the enzyme recognized as substrates the lipid peroxide-derived oxenes 9-oxo-octadeca-(10E),(12Z)-dienoic acid and 13-oxo-octadeca-(9E),(11Z)-dienoic acid, as well as the potent genotoxin 4-oxo-(2E)-nonenal, altogether suggesting AER has a key role in the detoxification of reactive carbonyls. To validate this conclusion by in vivo studies, transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants that had 100- to 250-fold higher AER activity levels than control plants were generated. The engineered plants exhibited significantly less damage from either (1) the exogenously administered 4-hydroxy-(2E)-nonenal, (2) treatment with methyl viologen plus light, or (3) intense light. We further show that the At-AER protein fused with the Aequorea victoria green fluorescent protein localizes in cytosol and the nucleus in Bright-Yellow 2 cells. These results indicate that reactive carbonyls mediate photooxidative injury in leaf cells, and At-AER in the cytosol protects the cells by reducing the α,β-unsaturated bond of the photoproduced reactive carbonyls.
!~RES~! The degradation of lipid peroxides in plant cells produces a variety of aldehydes and ketones. At-AER recognizes 2-alkenals with carbon chain lengths 3 to 9 (including 4-hydroxy-2-alkenals such as HNE and 4-hydroxy-(2E)-hexenal) and oxenes, which have an α,β-unsaturated enone structure (CITATION). To rationalize the in vivo function of At-AER, we further tested its substrate specificity to five derivatives of 2-alkenals or of oxenes that are relevant to oxidative stress (Table I). At-AER expressed in E. coli was purified (CITATION) and its activity toward a possible electron acceptor was evaluated. Kinetic parameters of recombinant At-AER for the lipid peroxide-derived reactive carbonyls (2E),(6Z)-Nonadienal is produced from lipid peroxides when plant tissues are wounded (CITATION; CITATION). This volatile dienal is a potent genotoxin that induces numerical chromosomal aberrations in mammalian cells (CITATION). At-AER showed a high level of the NADPH-dependent reducing activity of (2E),(6Z)-nonadienal at a similar level to that of HNE (Table I). We also tested another 2-alkenal-derivative 4-oxo-(2E)-nonenal (ONE), a potent DNA modifier produced via oxidation of HNE (CITATION). Interestingly, At-AER showed a Km value as low as 1 μm and hence a high catalytic efficiency to ONE. To test biologically relevant oxenes, we chose the ketodienes 9-oxo-(10E),(12Z)-octadecadienoic acid (9-oxoODE) and 13-oxo-(9E),(11Z)-octadecadienoic acid (13-oxoODE), which are the lipoxygenase products from 9- and 13-hydroperoxy-ocatadecatrienoic acids, respectively. These ketodienes accumulate in wounded and pathogen-infected leaves and cause leaf injury due to their reactivity as Michael acceptors (CITATION). As expected from its reactivity to oxenes, At-AER catalyzed the NADPH-dependent reduction of both 9- and 13-oxoODEs at substantial rates. These results show that At-AER is a universal detoxifier of the reactive carbonyls that are potentially generated in oxidatively stressed cells. We have clarified that At-AER selectively catalyzes the reduction of the α,β-unsaturated bond of 2-alkenals to produce n-alkanals (CITATION). To examine whether or not the same reaction is applied to oxenes, we determined the structure of the At-AER-reduced product of an oxene, 3-nonen-2-one, to which At-AER exhibited the highest catalytic efficiency (Table I). When this oxene was reduced by NADPH with At-AER, only one product was obtained; it was identified as 2-nonanone by a gas-chromatography/mass-spectrometry (GC/MS) analysis (Fig. 2). Even in a reaction with supraequimolar NADPH to the 3-nonen-2-one, no reduction of the ketone moiety to alcohol was observed (data not shown). Thus, At-AER specifically catalyzes the reduction of the α,β-unsaturated bond and retains the carbonyl moiety in oxenes as in 2-alkenals. [[FIGURE]] To assess the in vivo role of the At-AER, we generated transgenic tobacco plants in which the expression of At-AER was driven by the strong constitutive promoter 35S. We obtained three independent transgenic lines P1#11, P1#14, and P1#18, which showed higher levels of both the mRNA and the protein of At-AER than did the control line, which had been transformed with an empty vector. No apparent difference in growth was observed among these lines when they were cultured with a day light at 100 μmol m−2 s−1, as described in “Materials and Methods.” We evaluated the levels of At-AER in the leaf extracts from the transgenic and control plants by the HNE-reducing activity and by immunoblotting. Control tobacco showed an HNE-reducing activity of 0.12 nmol s−1 (mg protein)−1 (Table II), which was comparable to that in Arabidopsis leaves, 0.39 nmol s−1 (mg protein)−1 (CITATION). The transgenic lines P1#11, P1#14, and P1#18 showed 100- to 250-fold higher activity of NADPH-dependent HNE reduction. The addition of the antiserum against recombinant At-AER (CITATION) to the assays suppressed 98% of this activity, indicating that the enhanced activities in the transgenic lines were mostly ascribed to the overexpressed At-AER. By immunoblotting, the endogenous At-AER protein in Arabidopsis leaves was detected as a single band (Fig. 3). In contrast, no immunoreactive protein was detectable in the leaves of control tobacco although they contained a significant level of NADPH-dependent HNE-reducing activity. The activity in the control tobacco might be due to another kind of protein, such as AKR. In At-AER-overproducing lines P1#11, P1#14, and P1#18, a single band of a similar molecular size was detected with the antiserum, as expected. The At-AER protein levels corresponded well with the enzyme activities in leaf extract in these transgenic tobacco lines. Thus, the functionally active At-AER protein accumulates to high levels in the transgenic plants. Activities of AER, SOD, APX, and catalase in leaves of control and At-AER-overproducing tobacco plants The enzyme activities in total leaf protein extracts were determined as described in “Materials and Methods.” The electron acceptor for AER assay was HNE at 100 μm. Data are represented as means ± sd (nmol s−1 [mg protein]−1, unless otherwise specified). Measurements were carried out on four plants per line. Asterisks indicate significant differences as compared with control (P < 0.05). [[FIGURE]] To assess whether or not At-AER overexpression may have a pleiotropic effect on the activity of the antioxidant system in tobacco, we also measured the levels of the major ROS-scavenging enzymes, i.e. SOD, ascorbate peroxidase (APX), and catalase (Table II). In the At-AER-overproducing plants, these enzymatic activities were almost the same as or slightly lower than those in the control line, except that the P1#14 line had a 1.5-fold higher SOD activity than the other lines. Endogenous production of HNE in plants in response to some biological stress stimuli has been reported (CITATION; CITATION). We verified whether or not the At-AER expressed in tobacco functions as a detoxifier against HNE in the cells. HNE was administered to detached leaves of tobacco by applying 20 μL of HNE solution to a puncture site made in the leaf. In darkness, a change of leaf color from green to dark green developed concentrically from the puncture point until 48 h postapplication. The darkened area could be regarded as necrotic lesion because the area showed no PSII activity, as judged by the chlorophyll fluorescence parameter maximum photochemical efficiency of PSII in the dark-adapted state (Fv/Fm; CITATION) to be zero, and was bleached upon exposure to a weak light (30 μmol m−2 s−1) for 6 h, whereas the surrounding nonaffected area showed a full PSII activity (Fv/Fm value 0.8) and was not bleached upon illumination. When leaves were illuminated at 30 μmol m−2 s−1 from the beginning of incubation, bleaching of the leaf tissue, i.e. necrosis, developed concentrically. The extent of necrosis was not affected by this intensity of light. There was a possibility that the necrosis was an indirect effect of HNE, specifically, it was caused by a metabolite of HNE. When the HNE at 10 mm in a 20-μL solution was treated with the recombinant At-AER and 10 mm NADPH for 10 min prior to the application on the leaf, under which condition more than 95% of the HNE was reduced, it did not cause necrosis (data not shown). This excludes the above-mentioned possibility and confirms that the necrosis was caused by HNE. Necrosis areas resulted from HNE at various concentrations in the At-AER overproducing, and the control tobaccos are presented in Figure 4. HNE at higher concentrations resulted in larger necrosis areas in both the control and the At-AER overproducers, but leaves from the overproducers developed significantly smaller necrosis when 5 mm and 10 mm HNE was applied. Thus, the ectopically expressed At-AER conferred tolerance against HNE on tobacco leaves. [[FIGURE]] Because overproduced At-AER in leaf cells detoxified HNE, it was expected that the At-AER-overproducing tobacco plants would show a tolerance to oxidative stress if reactive carbonyls are produced during the stress and if the carbonyls thus produced mediate oxidative damages. To verify this hypothesis, we stressed leaves photooxidatively with MV plus light. The MV/light treatment enhances the photoproduction of O2− in chloroplasts and the derived H2O2 is primarily responsible for cellular injury (CITATION). Participation of reactive carbonyls, if at all, in cellular damages would be masked by direct effects of ROS under the conditions of a large flux of O2− production. Indeed, as described below, we could confirm that the overexpression of At-AER protected leaf cells under certain combinations of MV concentration and light intensity, but when the leaves were treated with MV at 2 μm or higher, or when the light intensity was higher than 280 μmol photons m−2 s−1, all the tested lines suffered damages to the same extents, most probably by the direct action of ROS, and no tolerance due to the overexpressed At-AER was observed (data not shown). The tolerance of the At-AER-overproducing tobaccos was observed under relatively mild stress conditions as follows: In the first set, leaf discs were first let absorb MV at 0.2 μm or 0.4 μm in darkness, illuminated at 280 μmol photons m−2 s−1 for 2 h, and then further incubated in darkness for 20 h (Fig. 5). In this mild-stress treatment, the production of O2− is confined to chloroplasts (CITATION). Evaluation of the leaf cell damage was based on the ion leakage from leaf discs, as judged by the conductivity of leaf disc-floating solution, and on the PSII activity as judged by the chlorophyll fluorescence parameter Fv/Fm (CITATION). In the absence of MV, the ion leakage of the floating solutions of P1#11 and P1#14 lines was slightly higher than that of the control line. When leaf discs were treated with MV (0.2–0.4 μm), the conductivity became higher for all the tested lines, reflecting cellular injury due to photooxidative stress caused by MV plus light. Obviously, P1#14 and P1#18 showed smaller increases in conductivity than the control did. In accordance with the conductivity change, the Fv/Fm values became lower by the treatment with MV, and here again P1#14 and P1#18 lines showed smaller decreases than control did. Thus, both parameters indicated that P1#14 and P1#18 were more tolerant to MV-induced photooxidative stress than the control line. The P1#11 line, which exhibited weaker tolerance to HNE than P1#14 and P1#18 (Fig. 5), was not more tolerant than the control in this set of stress conditions. It is of note that the loss of PSII activity almost corresponded with the increase in ion leakage from cells. Thus, the PSII inactivation is a measure of global cell injury in the MV/light-treated leaves. [[FIGURE]] In the second set of conditions, we adopted higher MV concentrations (1–2 μm) and lower light intensities (80–130 μmol photons m−2 s−1). These conditions induced stronger stress, and hence brought about more extensive injury in cells than did the previous conditions, as judged from larger decreases in PSII activity in the control leaves (Fig. 6). Leaves from P1#11 as well as P1#18 showed tolerance; the PSII-activity decreases in these lines were significantly smaller than those in the control line. When light intensity was increased to 130 μmol photons m−2 s−1, P1#14 showed a tolerance (Fig. 6, bottom section), but the P1#11 and P1#18 lines did not (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Thus, all the At-AER-overproducing lines, P1#11, P1#14, and P1#18, showed tolerance against the MV-mediated photooxidative damage, as compared with the control line. The observed tolerance was most likely attributed to the overexpressed At-AER but not to pleiotropic effects of the transgene because the contents of the major ROS-scavenging enzymes SOD, APX, and catalase were similar in all the tested lines (Table II). These results strongly suggest that reactive carbonyls were produced during the photooxidative stress and participated in the cell injury. We then made a photooxidative stress condition with intense light only without MV. This intense-light treatment could induce an oxidatively stressed status that was different from that induced by the MV/light treatment in two aspects. (1) The production of ROS is not confined to chloroplasts, but the production of H2O2 in peroxisomes could be comparable to that of superoxide in chloroplasts (CITATION), and hence the production sites of reactive carbonyls could be different. (2) Unlike the situation in the presence of MV, the electrons from PSI can also be distributed to other pathways than the photoreduction of O2, such as the photoreduction of NADP+ and probably also the reduction of reactive carbonyls by AER, allowing more effective operation of antioxidant functions. By this treatment we also intended to mimic a light-excess condition that plants may encounter in natural environments. When tobacco plants grown under a light at 50 μmol photons m−2 s−1 were illuminated with an intense light (2,000 μmol photons m−2 s−1), PSII was inactivated substantially in 5 h (Fig. 7, left section). The inactivation was largest in the control line (76%). In all the At-AER-overproducing lines, it was significantly smaller (60%–64%). [[FIGURE]] The decreased PSII activity was partially recovered during the postillumination period (Fig. 7), indicating that part of the activity loss could be accounted for by the local inactivation of the PSII complex, in contrast to the irreversible PSII inactivation caused by the MV/light treatment. Notably, after the recovery the PSII activity in the At-AER-overproducing plants was still significantly higher than that in the control. Thus, the overproduced At-AER protected leaf cells from intense light-induced damages. From the results of this experiment and of the MV/light experiments (Figs. 5 and 6), we can conclude that reactive carbonyls mediated photooxidative damage of cells partially, but significantly. The deduced amino acid sequence of At-AER does not have apparent organelle-targeting signal sequences, and hence is presumed to reside in cytosol (CITATION). We determined the intracellular protein localization by examining the in vivo behavior of the translational fusion protein between At-AER and the green fluorescent protein (GFP) from Aequorea victoria, which was expressed in tobacco Bright-Yellow 2 (BY-2) cells (Fig. 8). Strong green fluorescence was distributed in the periphery and the center of the cell (top section). An overlay of fluorescent and phase-contrast images (bottom section) revealed that the fluorescence was distributed in cytoplasm around vacuoles and along plasma membranes, and in the nucleoplasm of nuclei. Several dark spots in the nuclei indicated that the fusion protein was excluded from nucleoli. The fluorescence signal did not associate with vacuoles, proplastids, mitochondria, or peroxisomes. Thus, At-AER GFP is localized in cytosolic and nuclear compartments of tobacco cells. Specifically, the reactive carbonyls produced under photooxidative stress were scavenged in the cytosol and nucleus. Although unidentified yet, the primary production sites of the reactive carbonyls are presumably very close to the primary sites of ROS production. ROS are mainly produced in chloroplasts under the MV/light conditions (CITATION) and in both chloroplasts and peroxisomes under intense light (CITATION). Then, the reactive carbonyls are able to diffuse from the primary production sites to cytosol, where At-AER would detoxify them. Such an indirect action could explain the relatively modest protective effect in spite of the high level expression of At-AER in the transgenic tobaccos. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Recombinant At-AER with poly-His (6 × His) tagged at the N terminus was overproduced in Escherichia coli and purified as reported previously (CITATION). HNE was purchased from Alexis Japan care of Biolinks K.K. ONE was a generous gift of Dr. Koji Uchida (Nagoya University). 9-OxoODE and 13-oxoODE were from Cayman Chemical. A GCMS-QP 5050 system (Shimadzu) with a DB-WAX column (0.25 mm × 60 cm; J&W Science) was used. The carrier gas was helium at 200 kPa. The samples were measured in the electron-impact mode, using the split-injection mode with an injector temperature of 240°C. The column temperature was 40°C for the initial 5 min, which was gradually raised to 200°C over the next 25 min. The mass was scanned from mass-to-charge ratio 45 to 350. Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) cv Petit Havana SR1 was grown in vitro on the Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 0.8% agar, 3% Suc (w/v), and 2.5 mm MES-NaOH, pH 5.7, at 23°C in a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle (light intensity, 50 μmol m−2 s−1). To construct a binary vector p35SP1S, in which At-AER cDNA is under the control of the 35S promoter, the full-length cDNA of the gene At5g16970 was cloned as a blunt-ended NotI fragment into the blunt-ended XbaI site of the binary vector pGSVE9 (E. Babiychuk, unpublished data). The T-DNA in this vector also contains the hygromycin-B phosphotransferase CDS under the control of the nopaline synthase promoter, and this gene-expression cassette was used as a selectable genetic marker. The T-DNA was introduced into plant cells by cocultivation of tobacco leaf disks with Agrobacterium tumefaciens C51C1 Rifr (pGV2260; p35SP1S). Twenty-one independent hygromycin-resistant lines of transgenic tobacco obtained were first screened for transgene expression by RNA gel-blot hybridization of total RNA with At-AER (i.e. P1) cDNA as a probe. The specificity of DNA-RNA hybridization was assessed by comparing the hybridization results with RNA from plants transformed with T-DNA of pGSVE9 (i.e. empty vector control). The plants were further screened for the expression of transgene using RNA gel-blot analysis, and F2 progeny of the transgenic lines exhibiting high levels of the transcript were examined for the level of At-AER by western blotting using the antibody against recombinant At-AER (CITATION). There was a direct correlation between the mRNA levels and the protein levels in transgenic tobacco lines P1#11, P1#14, and P1#18 as compared with the control plants, which were transformed with the empty vector (data not shown). Progenies from homozygous individuals of these lines were chosen for further analysis. Unless otherwise stated, these tobacco plants were cultured on soil supplemented with Hyponex in a growth chamber in a 16/8-h photoperiod at 100 μmol m−2 s−1 with white-fluorescent lamps, with day and night temperatures of 25°C and 15°C, respectively. Leaf tissue was homogenized and extracted in 50 mm potassium phosphate, pH 7.0, containing 10% (w/v) polyvinylpolypyrrolidone. Homogenates were passed through a layer of Miracloth (Calbiochem), and cell debris was pelleted by centrifugation at 8,000g for 10 min. The supernatant was desalted by passing it through a Sephadex G25 column equilibrated with 50 mm potassium phosphate, pH 7.0. For measurements of APX activity, both the extraction and desalting media were supplemented with 5 mm ascorbate and 0.5 mm diethylenetriamine-N,N,N′,N″,N″-pentaacetic acid. SOD, APX, and catalase were assayed as previously reported (CITATION). AER activity was assayed by the oxidation rate of NADPH at 340 nm in a reaction mixture (1 mL) containing 50 mm MES-NaOH, pH 6.0, 0.1 mm NADPH, and 0.1 mm electron acceptor (CITATION). Electron acceptors were dissolved in dimethylsufoxide. Inhibition of At-AER by the solvent (1% [v/v]) was corrected by separately estimating its inhibition on the diamide-reducing activity (CITATION). Protein was determined using Coomassie Brilliant Blue protein assay solution (Nakalai Tesque) with bovine serum albumin as a standard. All the procedures were carried out at 25°C, unless otherwise stated. For MV treatment, leaf discs (1.5 cm2 each) were floated on 3 mL of MV solution in a petri dish, and incubated in darkness for 16 h. The leaf discs were then illuminated with white-fluorescent lamps for 2 h and further incubated in darkness for 20 h. For the intense-light treatment, a small area (2 cm in diameter) of a fully expanded mature leaf on a plant was illuminated in ambient air with white light at 2,000 μmol photons m−2 s−1 from a Schott KL 1500 halogen lamp delivered through a fiber optics and a heat-cut filter. The Fv/Fm value was determined using a MINI-PAM chlorophyll fluorometer (Walz) with a probe of 2-mm (for leaf disks) or 8-mm (for leaves) diameter. Leaf disks or leaves were incubated in darkness for 5 min prior to every measurement. The Aequorea victoria GFP version, whose coding region was optimized for expression in plant cells and derived from pBIN-m-gfp5-ER, was a generous gift of Jim Haseloff (University of Cambridge). The analyzed translational fusions carried GFP at the C terminus of the fusion protein. Using the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) P1 cDNA-encoding At-AER (CITATION; corresponding to the MIPS gene code At5g16970) as a template, the complete coding region without the stop codon was amplified by PCR with the forward and reverse primers of the following sequence: 5′-AA CTC GAG ACT AGT ATG ACG GCG ACG AAC-3′ and 5′-AA ACT AGT TTA GAT CTT CTC ACG AGC AAC-3′. The PCR product was subcloned into the SmaI site of the pUC18 (Amersham Bioscience), and the At-AER coding region was then cloned as an XhoI/BglII fragment in the binary vector pSL10 (E. Babiychuk, unpublished data) to form pP1-GFP. The tobacco BY-2 cells were transformed by cocultivation with the A. tumefaciens strain EHA 101[pP1-GFP], according to CITATION, with modifications. Briefly, 6 mL of a 4-d-old BY-2 cell culture were combined with 100 μL of an overnight-grown Agrobacterium strain, and cells were cocultured in a 10-cm petri dish for 4 d at room temperature. Stably transformed tobacco cells were selected and propagated on agar-solidified BY-2 medium supplemented with 10 mg L−1 hygromycin B, 0.5 g L−1 vancomycin, and 0.5 g L−1 cefatoxime. At-AER-GFP fusion protein in the transformed cells was detected by fluorescence (excitation at 488 nm, emission filter 505–530 nm) on an LSM510 laser scanning confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers AY120718, AY058070, and BT022058.
