!~ABS~! CAPRICE (CPC), a small, R3-type Myb-like protein, is a positive regulator of root hair development in Arabidopsis. Cell-to-cell movement of CPC is important for the differentiation of epidermal cells into trichoblasts (root hair cells). CPC is transported from atrichoblasts (hairless cells), where it is expressed, to trichoblasts, and generally accumulates in their nuclei. Using truncated versions of CPC fused to GFP, we identified a signal domain that is necessary and sufficient for CPC cell-to-cell movement. This domain includes the N-terminal region and a part of the Myb domain. Amino acid substitution experiments indicated that W76 and M78 in the Myb domain are critical for targeted transport, and that W76 is crucial for the nuclear accumulation of CPC:GFP. To evaluate the tissue-specificity of CPC movement, CPC:GFP was expressed in the stele using the SHR promoter and in trichoblasts using the EGL3 promoter. CPC:GFP was able to move from trichoblasts to atrichoblasts but could not exit from the stele, suggesting the involvement of tissue-specific regulatory factors in the intercellular movement of CPC. Analyses with a secretion inhibitor, Brefeldin A, and with an rhd3 mutant defective in the secretion process in root epidermis suggested that intercellular CPC movement is mediated through plasmodesmata. Furthermore, the fusion of CPC to tandem-GFPs defined the capability of CPC to increase the size exclusion limit of plasmodesmata.
!~RES~! In wild-type roots, root hair cells and hairless cells are arranged in alternating files in the root epidermis (CITATION). Transgenic plants in which the expression of 2×rsGFP was driven by the CPC promoter (CPCp::GFP) showed GFP fluorescence exclusively in hairless cell files, and had normal root hairs, as well as trichomes on leaf surfaces (Fig. 1A-C). The 2×rsGFP construct was chosen because 1×GFP could move freely from hairless cells to hair cells in a non-targeted manner (Y.K. and K.O., unpublished) (CITATION). By contrast, the roots of transgenic plants which expressed the CPC:2×rsGFP (CPC:GFP) fusion protein under the control of the CPC promoter (CPCp::CPC:GFP) exhibited GFP fluorescence in all epidermal cell nuclei, and developed ectopic hair cells in positions where hairless cells would usually develop (Fig. 1D,E). Moreover, CPCp::CPC:GFP plants lacked trichomes on the surface of rosette leaves (Fig. 1F). These phenotypes, observed in CPCp::CPC:GFP plants, resembled 35S::CPC overexpression lines (CITATION). To exclude the possibility of the movement of CPC:GFP mRNA from hairless cells to hair cells, we checked the expression pattern of CPC:GFP mRNA by in situ hybridization in CPCp::CPC:GFP transgenic plants. CPC:GFP mRNA was detected in hairless cells with an antisense GFP probe (inset in Fig. 1D); this observation was similar to the wild-type transcripts detected with an antisense CPC probe (CITATION). We also examined CPCp::CPC:GFP transgenes in the cpc-1 mutant background and observed GFP fluorescence in all epidermal cell nuclei, which was similar to the fluorescence distribution in the wild-type background (see Fig. S1 in the supplementary material). The cpc-1 plants containing CPCp::CPC:GFP showed normal hair formation in the hair-cell files and ectopic root hairs in the hairless-cell files, suggesting that CPC:GFP is functional in the cpc-1 mutant background (see Fig. S1 in the supplementary material). To confirm the localization of CPC using immunohistochemistry, we used haemagglutinin A (HA)-tagged CPC. HA-tagged CPC was expressed under the control of the CPC promoter in the cpc-1 mutant (CPCp::HA:CPC in cpc-1). These transgenic plants showed a complemented phenotype without ectopic root hair formation (Fig. 2B), suggesting that the HA:CPC fusion protein behaved like the endogenous CPC protein. Immunostaining with anti-HA antibody of root transverse sections from CPCp::HA:CPC transgenic cpc-1 plants led to strong signals in the nuclei of root hair cells, but not in the nuclei of hairless cells (Fig. 2C). Detection of CPC protein in the nuclei of root hair cells confirms the results obtained in CPC:GFP fusion plants (Fig. 1D), and supports our model that CPC moves from atrichoblasts to trichoblasts in the root epidermis. However, Fig. 2C shows that the amount of CPC protein in the nuclei of hairless cells falls below detectable levels. This is not consistent with the previous result shown in Fig. 1D.   [[FIGURE]] The apparent disparity in accumulation levels between CPC:GFP and HA:CPC fusion proteins in hairless cells was addressed by western blot with proteins extracted from wild type (Col-0), CPCp::CPC:GFP transgenic plants, CPCp::HA:CPC transgenic cpc-1 plants, 35S::CPC and cpc-2. In transgenic plants expressing CPCp::CPC:GFP, a predicted band (65 kDa) corresponding to CPC:GFP was detected but there was no corresponding signal for HA:CPC in CPCp::HA:CPC transgenic cpc-1 plants (Fig. 3A). Transgenic plants expressing 35S::CPC yielded an 11 kDa band, which correlates with the predicted size of CPC. However, we did not detect a band corresponding to CPC in either the wild type (Col-0) or the cpc-2 mutant (Fig. 3A). Quantitation by RT-PCR with gene-specific primer pairs suggested that there was no significant difference in the amounts of mRNA between CPCp::CPC:GFP and CPCp::HA:CPC plants, but these transgenic plants had a higher concentration of CPC:GFP and HA:CPC fusion transcripts than wild type (Col-0) did (Fig. 3B). 35S:CPC had the highest concentration of CPC transcripts, whereas no CPC transcripts were detected in the cpc-2 mutant, suggesting that cpc-2 was a null mutant (Fig. 3B). These data indicate that the CPC:GFP fusion protein is more stable than the HA:CPC protein is and that it accumulated in hairless cells. Therefore, a small amount of HA:CPC, and presumably also endogenous CPC, could be effectively transported into root hair cells from hairless cells. However, we used the CPC:GFP fusion for qualitative analyses of the cell-to-cell movement of CPC, as GFP fusion proteins can be conveniently and non-invasively monitored, and our focus is on the ability of CPC to move into hair cells. Furthermore, both CPC:GFP and HA:CPC accumulated in the nuclei of hair cells, implying that the movement activity of CPC:GFP from hairless cells to hair cells is equivalent to that of HA:CPC (and presumably endogenous CPC). In a series of experiments, we used the wild-type background for the construction of transgenic plants because intact endogenous CPC is required for monitoring the intercellular movement of CPC fusions. If the mutated CPCs fused to GFP, which do not move intercellularly, were to be transformed into the cpc mutant background, GFP fluorescence might be observed in all epidermal cell files. Because CPC itself is indispensable for the transcriptional self-repression of CPC in hair cells (CITATION), it would be unlikely that the defects of intercellular movement of mutated CPC could be detected. To define which regions are required or sufficient for the cell-to-cell movement of CPC, we generated a series of truncated CPC proteins fused to the N terminus of 2×rsGFP and expressed them in transgenic plants. The CPC protein was divided into three non-overlapping domains: the N-terminal (residues 1 to 32), Myb (residues 33 to 83) and C-terminal (residues 84 to 94) domains (Fig. 4A). We made four constructs (Fig. 4A) and analyzed the ability of their expression products to move between cells. Transformant plant lines with NMG, containing the N-terminal and Myb (residues 1 to 83) domains, had GFP fluorescence in all epidermal cell nuclei, similar to the full-length CPC:GFP (Fig. 1D versus Fig. 4B). Lines containing MG, consisting of the Myb region only, had GFP signal mostly restricted to the nuclei of hairless cells (Fig. 4C). Transformants with the third product, NG, with only the N-terminal domain, showed neither the capability for cell-to-cell movement nor nuclear accumulation (Fig. 4D). MCG, containing the Myb and C-terminal (residues 33 to 94) domains, resembled MG: most of the GFP signal was observed in the nuclei of hairless cells (Fig. 4E). These results suggested that the region spanning from the N terminus to the Myb domain functions as a trafficking signal domain of CPC. In addition, the Myb domain appeared likely to contain the nuclear localization signal. To further delimit the CPC regions required for cell-to-cell movement, we constructed a series of NMG plasmids with deletions extending from both the N-terminal and C-terminal ends (Fig. 5A). 1-79G, with only four amino acids deleted from the C terminus of the Myb domain, gave results similar to those of NMG (Fig. 5B). By contrast, 1-75G transgenic plants had GFP fluorescence only in hairless cell files and lacked nuclear fluorescence (Fig. 5C). Thus, the four amino acids (WLMK) deleted in 1-75G are crucial for cell-to-cell movement and may also be required for a nuclear localization of CPC. Transgenic lines harboring CPC constructs with more extensive C-terminal deletions than 1-75G (i.e. 1-65G, 1-55G and 1-45G; Fig. 5A) had GFP signals similar to the 1-75G transgenic plants (data not shown).   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] Plasmid 10-83G, from which nine amino acids had been deleted at the N terminus of CPC (Fig. 5A), gave GFP fluorescence in most nuclei of hairless cell files (Fig. 5D), suggesting that the truncated fusion protein had lost intercellular movement ability. Similar results were obtained with plasmid 21-83G, in which the N terminus had been further shortened (data not shown). From these deletion analyses, we concluded that CPC carries a signal domain (residues 1 to 79), which is necessary and sufficient for cell-to-cell movement, and which is made up of the whole N terminus and a part of the Myb domain (Fig. 5E). We tentatively named the two regions required for CPC movement S1 (sequence 1) and S2. To identify crucial amino acid(s) in the S1 and S2 regions, we conducted site-directed mutagenesis. Alanine substitutions in both K6 and K9 (K6A:K9A) showed no difference in the distribution of GFP fluorescence when compared to the CPCp::CPC:GFP transgenic line (Fig. 6A). The K6A:K9A mutant transgenic line developed ectopic root hairs but no trichomes on leaves (Fig. 6B,C), suggesting that K6 and K9 are not required for cell-to-cell movement of CPC. We also structured mutants with alanine substitutions beyond the C-terminal border of S1 in the N-terminal domain of CPC (K12A:R13A, R14A:R15A, R15A:R16A and K19A:K21A), but no effects on CPC:GFP movement were observed (data not shown).   [[FIGURE]] Three alanine substitutions (W76A, M78A, and K79A) and one valine substitution (L77V) were introduced into the S2 region. K79A and L77V mutants showed distributions of GFP fluorescence and morphological phenotypes like those of the CPCp::CPC:GFP line (Fig. 6D-I). Conversely, the GFP signal was mostly restricted to files of hairless cells in the mutants W76A and M78A (Fig. 6J,M; for a quantitative assessment see Table 1). In the W76A mutant, GFP fluorescence appeared to be dispersed in the cytoplasm (Fig. 6M). These results suggested that W76 was crucial for both cell-to-cell movement and nuclear accumulation. The fact that W76A had an almost normal root hair formation and a partial inhibition of trichome development (Fig. 6N,O; Table 2) is consistent with this interpretation. Furthermore, W76A in the cpc-2 mutant background had a reduced number of hair cells (see Fig. S2 in the supplementary material), suggesting that the W76A mutant form was not functional. The GFP signal of W76A in the cpc-2 background was observed to be dispersed in all epidermal cells, suggesting that the movement-defective W76A mutant form could not repress its own expression in hair cells in a cpc-2 background, as there was no endogenous CPC present, and repression of CPC in hair cells did not occur. In M78A mutants, the cell-to-cell movement of CPC was defective but nuclear accumulation remained unaffected (Fig. 6J,L). The proportion of GFP-expressing cells in root hair-cell positions was higher in M78A than in W76A (Table 1). For M78A, we examined the effects on phenotype in the cpc-2 mutant background. M78A in the cpc-2 background produced hair formation in the hair-cell and hairless-cell files, and ectopic root hairs, as observed with wild-type CPC (see the Fig. S2 in the supplementary material). M78A in the cpc-2 background also produced GFP fluorescence in all epidermal cell nuclei for the same reason as W76A; that is, the movement-defective M78A form could not repress CPC expression in hair cells.    CPC:GFP localization in developing root epidermis     Specification of cell types in root epidermis    [[FIGURE]] To examine the possibility of cell-to-cell movement of CPC in tissues other than the epidermis, we expressed CPC:GFP using the promoter of the SHORT-ROOT (SHR) gene. Control plants (SHRp::GFP) expressed GFP fluorescence preferentially in the stele (inset in Fig. 7A). This result is consistent with a previous study (CITATION). Practically the same results were obtained from plants expressing SHRp::CPC:GFP (Fig. 7A,B), suggesting that the CPC:GFP fusion protein did not selectively move out of the stele. In contrast to epidermal cells, CPC:GFP did not specifically accumulate in the nuclei of stele cells (Fig. 7A,B). We confirmed the expression of the CPC:GFP fusion protein by western blot analysis in SHRp::CPC:GFP lines (data not shown). CPC:GFP expressed in stele cells had no effect on root hair formation. These results suggest that nuclear accumulation of CPC may be required for its action on root hair development, or that CPC functions with unidentified auxiliary factors that are not present in the stele because CPC has to be in the epidermis during root hair formation. ENHANCER OF GL3 (EGL3), a bHLH-type transcriptional factor gene, has been characterized in several laboratories, including our own (CITATION; CITATION) (R.S., K.O. and T.W., unpublished). The EGL3 promoter is active in the root epidermis, preferentially in hair cells (R.S. et al., unpublished). In plants carrying an EGL3p::CPC:GFP transgene, the fusion protein was localized in the nuclei of all epidermal cells (Fig. 7D,E). Control plants expressing EGL3p:GFP showed GFP fluorescence predominantly in hair cells (insets in Fig. 7D), suggesting that CPC:GFP expressed under the control of EGL3 promoter moved from the root hair cells to hairless cells. The protein is also functional in controlling root hair development, as EGL3p::CPC:GFP transgenic plants grew ectopic root hairs (Fig. 7F). The differences in the behavior of CPC:GFP expressed either in the stele or the epidermis suggested that epidermis-specific components were required for cell-to-cell movement of CPC and also for its nuclear accumulation. We also expressed the CPC:GFP in another ground tissue, the endodermis, with the endodermis-specific SCARECROW (SCR) promoter (CITATION). When 2×GFP were expressed under the SCR promoter as a control, it moved from the endodermis to the epidermis via the cortex, suggesting that 2×GFP may be passively transported in these layers (data not shown).   [[FIGURE]] To examine whether the classical secretion process is involved in the movement of CPC, we performed two types of experiment. First, brefeldin A (BFA) blocks the secretory pathway from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the plasma membrane by inhibiting vesicle formation at the Golgi apparatus (CITATION; CITATION). Seedlings treated with BFA had phenotypes similar to plants treated with an auxin-transport inhibitor, such as a reduction in root and hypocotyl gravitropism and elongation, as well as lateral root initiation (data not shown) (CITATION). CPC:GFP localization was not affected in CPCp::CPC:GFP transgenic plants treated with 10 μM BFA (Fig. 8A,B), whereas the aberrant phenotypes described above were observed (data not shown). This result strongly suggests that the BFA-sensitive secretion pathway is not involved in the movement of CPC:GFP. Second, the rhd3-1 mutant allele was originally recognized and isolated by its phenotype of short wavy root hairs (CITATION), and Zheng et al. (CITATION) reported that this mutant has a defect in the secretion of proteins to the extracellular space. We tested the movement of CPC:GFP in the rhd3-1 mutant. As shown in Fig. 8E, CPC:GFP was found in the nuclei of both hairless cells and root hair cells, indicating that the mutation does not affect the movement of CPC. Root hairs of the CPCp::CPC:GFP transgenic plant had short, wavy root-hairs on both root hair cell and hairless cell files (Fig. 8D), whereas the rhd3-1 mutant had short, wavy root hairs only on root hair cell files (Fig. 8C). This result is consistent with the model proposing that CPC is moved from hairless cells to neighboring hair cells in the rhd3-1 mutant. These two lines of evidence strongly suggest that Golgi-mediated secretion is not a mechanism of controlling the intercellular movement of CPC. If CPC protein moves via plasmodesmata, its movement, like other proteins or complex structures, is likely to have a size exclusion limit (SEL) (CITATION). To investigate the effect of the SEL on CPC movement, the movement abilities of CPC fused to tandem GFPs, 2×, 3×, 4× and 5×GFP, were compared. CPC:tandem-GFPs were expressed under the control of the CPC promoter. As a control, we examined the movement ability of free 1×GFP and 2×GFP under the expression control of the CPC promoter; CPCp::1×GFP and CPCp::2×GFP. Free 2×GFP could not move out of hairless cells but 1×GFP moved freely between epidermal cells (see, for example Fig. 1A; data not shown). This result suggests that the SEL of plasmodesmata under these conditions is between 27 kDa (Mr of 1×GFP) and 54 kDa (Mr of 2×GFP) in the meristematic zone of root epidermis. In contrast to free GFP multimers, CPC increased the SEL of plasmodesmata for CPC:GFP multimer fusions. Transgenic plants expressing CPC:2×GFP had GFP fluorescence in all epidermal cell nuclei (Fig. 9A). For CPC:3×GFP, the nuclei of all epidermal cells showed GFP fluorescence and partially reduced nuclear localization, as some GFP fluorescence was dispersed in the cell (Fig. 9B). Larger multimers of GFP fused to CPC reduced the GFP signal in hair cells and nuclear-specific localization (Fig. 9C,D). These data demonstrated that the SEL of plasmodesmata specifically increases to around 119 kDa (Mr of CPC:4×GFP) when CPC fused to GFPs. Furthermore, intercellular movement of CPC:GFP is apparently coupled with intracellular movement, resulting in nuclear localization.
!~MM~! Primer sequences are listed in Table S1 in the supplementary material. To create a plasmid with a gene encoding HA-tagged CPC, a CPC genomic DNA fragment pBS-gCPC including the 1.3 kb 5′ region, the 0.9 kb coding region and the 0.45 kb 3′ regions (CITATION) was used. HA1-F/HA1-R oligonucleotides (for HA peptide) were annealed and inserted into the 5′ portion of the coding region of a PCR-amplified linear CPC genome fragment with TK383 and TK384 (pBS-CPCp-HA-CPC). The XbaI and SalI fragments of pBS-CPCp-HA-CPC were cloned into the pJHA212K binary vector (CITATION). To create plasmids with truncated CPC sequences, the 2×rsGFP-NosT fragment was amplified with TK106/TK107 from pRTL2-2×rsGFP (CITATION) as a template, and cloned into the pT7 blue T-vector (Novagen). EcoRV and XbaI fragments of 2×rsGFP-NosT were cloned into pBluescriptII SK+ (pBS-2×rsGFP-NosT). The CPC promoter region was amplified with TK100/TK101 using Pyrobest DNA polymerase (Takara, Japan), and was cloned into pT7 (pT-CPCp). pT-CPCp was digested with SphI, blunt-end filled with T4 DNA polymerase (Takara, Japan) and re-digested with SmaI. After pBluescriptII had been digested with SacI and EcoRV, and treated with T4 DNA polymerase to abolish the SacI site, the CPCp fragment was cloned into this modified pBluescriptII (pBS-CPCp). All truncated CPC-coding regions were amplified by PCR with the following primers: TK102/TK103 for NMG, TK104/TK103 for MG, TK102/TK128 for NG and TK 104/TK201 for MCG. TK102 was used as an upstream primer for the PCR-amplification of constructs of the truncated NM region. Downstream primers were TK186 for 1-79G, TK180 for 1-75G, TK181 for 1-65G, TK182 for 1-55G and TK183 for 1-45G. For additional plasmids containing the truncated NM region, the following primers were used: TK184/TK103 for 10-83G, TK185/TK103 for 21-83G and TK184/TK182 for 10-55G. Amplified, truncated CPC-coding regions were cloned into pT7, and digested with SacI and EcoRV. These fragments were cloned into the SacI and EcoRV sites of pBS-CPCp (pBS-CPCp-trCPC). A CPCp-trCPC fragment was created by digestion with SalI and EcoRV, and cloned into pBS-2×rsGFP-NosT (pBS-CPCp-trCPC-GFP-NosT). Finally, the entire region was cloned into the SalI and XbaI sites of the pJHA212K binary vector. For the substitution of specific amino acids in the NM region of CPC, PCR-mediated mutagenesis was carried out on pBS-CPCp::CPC:GFP-NosT (CITATION) using the QuickChange Site-Directed Mutagenesis Kit (Stratagene), with the primers: TK112/TK113 for K6A:K9A, TK320/TK321 for K79A, TK340/TK341 for W76A, TK342/TK343 for L77V and TK379/TK380 for M78A. Each mutagenized region was cloned into the SalI and XbaI sites of pJHA212K. EGL3p::CPC:GFP was created by ligating the Klenow fragment blunt-ended SalI and BamHI fragment of the EGL3 promoter from pBS-EGL3p (R.S., K.O. and T.W., unpublished) into the 5′portion (ClaI digestion and fill-in by Klenow) of pBS-CPC-GFP-NosT (pBS-EGL3p-CPC-GFP-NosT). The SalI and XbaI fragment from pBS-EGL3p-CPC-GFP-NosT was then ligated into pJHA212K. The SHORT-ROOT promoter can be divided into two regions: a 1.8 kb upstream region (SHR-A) and a 0.7 kb downstream region (SHR-B) (CITATION). These regions were amplified with TK233/TK240 and TK237/TK234, respectively. Amplified fragments were ligated into pT7 (pT-SHR-A or pT-SHR-B). The EcoRV/SmaI fragment of pT-SHR-B was cloned into pT-SHR-A (pT-SHRp). The SalI/SmaI fragment of pT-SHRp was ligated into the SalI/EcoRV sites of pBS-CPC-GFP-NosT (pBS-SHRp-CPC-GFP-NosT). The SalI/EcoRV fragment of the SCR (SCARECROW) promoter from pJH-SCRp-GFP-NosT (T.K., K.O. and T.W., unpublished) was replaced by the SalI/SmaI fragment of pT-SHRp. To construct CPCp::CPC:tandem GFPs, three plasmids containing 1×GFP were constructed. 1×GFP was amplified with GFPspacer/multiGFP-r from pBS-CPCp::CPC:GFP (CITATION), and cloned into the EcoRV/BamHI sites of pBluescriptII SK+ (pBS-1×GFP-A). Two other 1×GFPs were amplified from pBS-2xrsGFP-NosT, with multiGFP-f/multiGFP-r and multiGFP-r/M13R primer pairs, and cloned into the pT7 (pT7-1×GFP-B) and PstI/BamHI sites of pBluescriptII SK+ (pBS-1×GFP-C). The SalI/BamHI fragment of pBS-1×GFP-A was cloned into the SalI/BglII sites of pBS-1×GFP-C (pBS-2×GFP-NosT). For 3×GFP, the SalI/BamHI fragment of pT7-1×GFP-B was cloned into the SalI/BglII sites of pBS-1×GFP-C (pBS-2×GFP-NosT-2), then the SalI/BamHI fragment of pBS-1×GFP-A was inserted into the SalI/BglII sites of pBS-2×GFP-NosT-2 (pBS-3×GFP-NosT). The SalI/BamHI fragment of pT7-1×GFP-B was also cloned into the SalI/BglII sites of pBS-2×GFP-NosT-2 (pBS-3×GFP-NosT-2). The pBS-4×GFP-NosT and pBS-5×GFP-NosT plasmids were constructed by repeated insertions of the amplified fragment as above. Next, the SalI/NcoI fragment of pBS-CPCp::CPC:GFP was cloned into the SalI/NcoI sites of each pBS-tandem GFPs-NosT (pBS-CPCp::CPC:tandem GFPs-NosT). Finally, the SalI/XbaI fragments of pBS-CPCp::CPC:tandem GFPs-NosT were ligated into pJHA212K. Col-0 or Ws Arabidopsis ecotypes were used as wild type. The 35S::CPC transgenic line and cpc-1 have been described previously (CITATION). The cpc-2 mutant (KG12704) used in this study was isolated from Kazusa T-DNA lines. cpc-2 contains a T-DNA insert in the second intron of CPC. This mutant was backcrossed to Col-0 twice. Seeds of rhd3-1 were provided from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center at Ohio State University (OH, USA). Lines homozygous for mutations containing the transgene were constructed by crossing mutant and transgenic plants, the phenotype and GFP fluorescence was then examined. Transformation was performed as described previously (CITATION). For the observation of seedlings, plants were grown on agar plates as described by Okada and Shimura (CITATION). For the inhibitor experiment, BFA (ICN, BFA stock solution was 50 mM) was added in agar medium at the indicated concentrations. In situ hybridization was as described by Kurata et al. (CITATION). A DIG-labeled antisense RNA probe for CPC:GFP was generated by transcribing NcoI-digested pBS-1xrsGFP (R.S., K.O. and T.W., unpublished) using a T3 polymerase. Roots were stained with 5 μg/ml propidium iodide (PI) for 30 seconds and mounted in water. Confocal images were obtained with a 40× water-immersion objective on a Zeiss LSM-Pascal or a Zeiss LSM-510 Meta confocal laser-scanning microscope using 488 nm laser lines for GFP excitation. Image processing was done with Adobe Photoshop version 7.0 (Adobe Systems, CA, USA). For the observation of root hairs and trichomes, images of seedlings were recorded with a VC4500 3D digital fine scope (Omron, Kyoto, Japan). The pattern of epidermal cell types was determined according to the protocol of Lee et al. (Lee et al., 2002), with minor modifications. A light microscope equipped with differential interference contrast (Nomarski) optics was used to determine cell type and relative locations of epidermal cells. The proportions of trichoblasts and atrichoblasts in root epidermis were determined by examining a minimum of ten 5-day-old seedlings from each line. An epidermal cell was counted as a trichoblast if any protrusion was visible, regardless of its length. RNA extraction and semi-quantitative RT-PCR reaction were as described by Kurata et al. (CITATION). CPC, CPC:GFP and HA:CPC fragments were amplified with RT128/TK629, RT128/TK628 and HA-F/RT-129 primer pairs. EF1α was amplified as described by Kurata et al. (CITATION). The GST-CPC protein was prepared as described previously (CITATION). The His-CPC fusion was expressed using pET28a in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3). Soluble His-CPC was purified with Ni-NTA agarose (Quiagen). Purified GST-CPC protein was injected into rabbits, and the antisera were affinity purified with coupled His-CPC (BioGate Company Limited, Gifu, Japan). In parallel, we extracted total soluble protein from cpc-2 mutant seedlings and immobilized it in a HiTrap NHS-activated HP column (Amersham Biosciences). The affinity-purified fraction was further absorbed to the cpc-2 protein gel for 7 hours at 4°C. The final unbound fraction was used for western blotting. Total plant protein was extracted from 7-day-old seedlings with a protein extraction buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.0), 1 mM EDTA, 0.1% (w/v) Triton X-100, 1 mM PMSF, 50 μM Leupeptin and 11 mM 2-mercaptoethanol. Crude protein was separated by SDS-PAGE with SuperSep gradient gel (Wako Pure Chemical Industries, Osaka, Japan) and Prestained Protein Marker (New England BioLabs). Samples were transferred to nitrocellulose membranes by wet-electroblotting, and checked by Ponceau S staining. The blotted membrane was incubated with rabbit anti-CPC primary antibody (1:2000). Incubation with secondary HRP-conjugated anti-rabbit antibody and detection were according to the manufacturer's protocol (ECL Plus, Amersham Biosciences). Immunohistochemistry was performed according to Nakajima et al. (CITATION), with minor modifications. Five-day-old seedlings were fixed in 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde in PBS [10 mM sodium phosphate (pH 7.5), 130 mM NaCl] overnight at 4°C, washed with PBS and passed through an ethanol series. Samples were cleaned with Histo-clear II (National Diagnostics, GA, USA), and embedded in Histologie (MERCK, Darmstadt, Germany). Sections (9 μm) were cut with a microtome (Leica RM2165, Nubloh, Germany) and placed on MAS-coated slides (MATSUNAMI GLASS IND, Osaka, Japan). After deparaffinization and rehydration, the sections were treated with 2N HCl for 5 minutes and 300μ g/ml pronase (Roche) for 10 minutes at 37°C. Treatment with pronase was stopped by incubation in glycine-TBS [TBS: 25 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.4), 137 mM NaCl, 2.68 mM KCl] and TBS wash. After blocking with TBST [TBS plus 0.05% (w/v) Tween 20] containing 1% (w/v) bovine serum albumin and 2% (v/v) goat serum for 5 hours at room temperature, the sections were incubated with anti-HA antibodies (Clone 3F10, Roche) at a 1:200 dilution in the blocking solution overnight at room temperature. Slides were washed six times with TBST for 10 minutes and incubated with alkaline phosphatase-conjugated anti-rat IgG (1:500, Zymed, CA, USA) for 2 hours at room temperature. After washing four times in TBST and twice in TBS, the signal was developed with NBT/BCIP solution (Western Blue, Promega) with 1 mM levamisole for 4 hours at room temperature.   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]]
