!~ABS~! Transcription in plastids is mediated by a plastid-encoded multimeric (PEP) and a nuclear-encoded single-subunit RNA polymerase (NEP) and a still unknown number of nuclear-encoded factors. By combining gel filtration and affinity chromatography purification steps, we isolated transcriptionally active chromosomes from Arabidopsis thaliana and mustard (Sinapis alba) chloroplasts and identified 35 components by electrospray ionization ion trap tandem mass spectrometry. Eighteen components, called plastid transcriptionally active chromosome proteins (pTACs), have not yet been described. T-DNA insertions in three corresponding genes, ptac2, -6, and -12, are lethal without exogenous carbon sources. Expression patterns of the plastid-encoded genes in the corresponding knockout lines resemble those of Δrpo mutants. For instance, expression of plastid genes with PEP promoters is downregulated, while expression of genes with NEP promoters is either not affected or upregulated in the mutants. All three components might also be involved in posttranscriptional processes, such as RNA processing and/or mRNA stability. Thus, pTAC2, -6, and -12 are clearly involved in plastid gene expression.
!~RES~! In order to identify new components involved in plastid gene expression, we purified TACs from Arabidopsis and mustard. Several previously published purification protocols were combined to obtain highly purified TAC preparations (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). After lyses of chloroplasts obtained by sucrose gradient centrifugation, soluble proteins were applied onto a Sepharose 4B column. Transcriptional active protein fractions were combined, and the TAC in these fractions was concentrated by ultracentrifugation. The precipitated complexes were dissolved and applied to a second column (either Sepharose 2B, Q Sepharose, or Heparin Sepharose CL-6B). Figure 1A demonstrates that the second gel filtration column causes a substantial enrichment of the specific transcriptional activity, similar to results reported previously for other species (CITATION; data shown for Sepharose 2B). After phenol/chloroform extraction and tryptic digestion, these three preparations were directly used for mass spectrometry. Table 1 contains a list of 35 proteins that were identified with cross-correlation factor (xcorr) values >3.5, 2.5, and 1.5 for triple-, double-, and single-charged peptide ions in independent TAC preparations and with at least two independent peptides. Also present in our preparations were light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b binding proteins, D1, D2, and CP47 of photosystem II, α- and β-subunits of the ATP synthase, dihydrolipoamide S-acetyltransferase (At3g25860), and a putative ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase activase (At1g73110), which were considered as contaminants. [[FIGURE]] Identified Proteins from Arabidopsis and Mustard in TAC Preparations Thirteen proteins identified in this preparation have also been identified in sRNAP preparations (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Seventeen of the polypeptides have been described earlier; however, only two of them were identified as components of the TAC. The other 18 proteins reported here have not yet been described. Computer analyses predicted plastid-directing transit sequences for 33 of the identified proteins. No clear information is available for pTAC9 (At4g20010) and pTAC13 (At3g09210). Seventeen of the 35 polypeptides are involved in replication, transcription, translation, detoxification, protein modifications, or plastid metabolism. For the others, no function has been described. However, the domain structure of eight of them suggests that they might also be involved in replication, transcription, or translation. Besides the four subunits α, β, β′, and β″ of PEP, we identified Fe-dependent superoxide dismutases (SODs) and phosphofructokinases (PFKs). One of the identified SODs (SOD3, At5g22310) and one of the PFK-B-type enzymes (PFKB2, At3g54090) are also present in highly purified sRNAP preparations from mustard and tobacco (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Among the known proteins, a putative DNA-polymerase A (At3g20540), two putative subunits of the DNA gyrase (At3g10690 and At3g10270), the elongation factor Tu (At4g20360), three ribosomal proteins (L12-A [At3g27830], S3 [ArthCp061], and L29 [At5g65220]), the UDP-N-acetylmuamoylalanyl-d-glutamate-2,6-diaminopimelate ligase (At1g63680), and a putative thioredoxin (At3g06730) have not yet been described as TAC components. The 18 new components were named plastid TAC proteins 1 to 18 (pTAC1-18). Based on the analyses of their domain structures, some of them contain either DNA or RNA binding domains, domains involved in protein–protein interactions, or epitopes described for other cellular functions (Table 2). However, database searches for four proteins did not reveal known functional domains. Analysis of pTAC Domains Twenty-six of the 35 polypeptides were identified in TAC preparations from Arabidopsis and mustard (Tables 1 and 3), four proteins only in Arabidopsis (At3g20540, At5g23310, At2g46820, and At5g54180), and additional five only in mustard preparations (At3g27830, At5g65220, ArthCp061, At1g65260, and At1g80480). We isolated large amounts of TAC from mustard seedlings and solubilized the proteins in Laemmli buffer after sonication. Twenty major bands could be visualized on a silver-stained gel, and they were identified by mass spectrometry (Figure 1B). Seventeen of these bands correspond to proteins also identified in unresolved TAC samples (Table 3). One additional protein not detected by the original mass spectrometry (MS) was found by analysis of the PAGE-derived protein bands (At2g05430). However, the size of protein bands resolved by PAGE does not always correspond to the predicted molecular masses of the polypeptides. This is not surprising considering that complete solubilization of the final TAC in the gel loading buffer could only be achieved by sonication. It appears that the proteins are tightly associated with each other or with nucleic acids. Some identified polypeptides contain RNA or DNA binding motifs, such as pentatricopeptide repeat motif (PPR), small MutS-related motif (SMR), SAP (for SAF-A/B, Acinus, and PIAS), S1, oligonucleotide/oligosaccharide binding (OB) fold, KOW (for Kyrpides, Ouzounis, and Woese), NGN, or mitochondrial transcription termination factor motif (mTERF) (Table 2). Therefore, it seems likely that the proteins identified in this study are components involved in plastid transcription/translation. Identification of Bands from an SDS Polyacrylamide Gel with Mustard TAC Proteins To further substantiate that pTACs are involved in plastid transcription, Arabidopsis knockout lines for pTAC2, -6, and -12 were analyzed. ptac2 (At1g74850) contains two nucleotide binding domains (PPR and SMR) and tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domains involved in protein–protein interaction. No obvious protein domains could be detected for ptac6 (At1g21600) and ptac12 (At2g34640). Mutations in homozygote knockout lines for these proteins are lethal when they were grown without exogenous carbon sources. DNA sequence analyses confirmed the positions of the T-DNA insertions provided by the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC) [At1g74850, 3rd exon after nucleotide 2571; At1g21600, 1st intron after the nucleotide 518; At2g34640, 8th intron after the nucleotide 2285 downstream of A(+1)TG codon]. RT-PCR with gene-specific primers uncovered that no more transcripts can be detected in ptac2 (Figure 2). The small amounts of transcripts detected in ptac6 and ptac12 mutants might be due to the fact that the insertions are located in introns. However, the phenotype of the mutants clearly demonstrates that the residual transcript levels are too low to allow normal plastid development. A contamination of the RNA with genomic DNA can be excluded because the RT-PCR products do not contain intron sequences (Figure 2). Real-time PCR analyses with RNA from different organs of wild-type seedlings demonstrate that ptac2, -6, and -12 transcripts are present in all tissues and that the mRNA levels are significantly reduced in roots (Figure 3). However, the presence of ptac2, -6, and -12 transcripts in green and nongreen tissue suggests that the gene products are required in chloroplast and other types of plastids. It remains to be determined whether the amounts of these proteins correlate with the number of plastids or nucleoids per cell. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The homozygote seedlings develop white cotyledons, fail to accumulate chlorophyll even under low light intensities, and do not produce primary leaves. On sucrose medium, the mutants reach the rosette stage, but they are much smaller and grow slower than the wild type (Figure 4). While ptac2 develops yellow cotyledons and greenish primary leaves on sucrose medium, the other two mutants stay more yellowish. By contrast, dark-grown ptac plants show the phenotype of the etiolated wild type. A detailed analysis of pigments from low-light-grown ptac plants revealed that chlorophylls and carotenoids accumulate in the mutants, although the overall amounts are quite low. The decrease of total chlorophyll (∼70% in ptac2, ∼99% in ptac6, and ∼95% in ptac12 plants) was accompanied by a noticeable decrease in the chlorophyll a:b ratio in ptac2 and -12 and increase in ptac6 plants (Table 4). These changes might be due to an increase in the photosystem II light-harvesting system and/or a decrease in the photosystem I:II ratio in case of ptac2 and -12 and the opposite for ptac6 plants, respectively. Furthermore, we observed a significant increase in the carotenoid:chlorophyll as well as in the xanthophyll:chlorophyll ratio (Table 4) in mutant seedlings. Interestingly, the antheraxantin level is relatively high and the zeaxanthin level below detectability. Both xanthophyll pigments are not detectable in the wild type, which is known to be the case for plants grown under moderate conditions (CITATION). Fluorescence quenching analysis indicates effects on photochemical efficiency in the mutant lines. As shown in Table 4, the maximum quantum yield (Fv/Fm) and photochemical quenching [(Fm′ − Ft)/Fm′] are significantly lower than those of the wild type. The reduced ratio of variable-to-maximum fluorescence (Fv/Fm) indicates smaller photosystem II antennae and/or fewer functional photosystem II centers (CITATION). In accordance with this observation, ptac2 reveals higher values of nonphotochemical quenching (NPQ; CITATION). In case of ptac6 and -12, the NPQ values might be caused by the reduced chlorophyll contents. [[FIGURE]] Pigment Analysis and Fluorescence Measurements of Wild-Type and Mutant Lines Analysis of the plastid structure in the mutants showed that the organelle development is severely impaired (Figure 5). Compared with the wild type, grana structures in ptac2 plants are unequally expanded. Grana-interlacing stroma thylakoids are completely missing (Figure 5B). Chloroplasts of ptac6 and ptac12 plants do not contain grana thylakoids. They are replaced by oval-shaped vesicles (Figures 5C and 5D). Surprisingly, an accumulation of starch is only observed in the old leaves of ptac6 and ptac12 mutants. Frequently a multiplicity of plastoglobuli is found in close proximity to the above-mentioned vesicles (Figures 5B and 5C). Both plastid- and nuclear-encoded soluble polypeptides and polypeptides associated with the thylakoid membrane are either absent or strongly reduced in the mutants (Figure 6). Since plastid-encoded polypeptides, such as the large subunit of ribulose-1,5-bis-phosphate carboxylase/oxygenase, subunit IV of cytochrome b6/f complex, and CF1ε, are still detectable in all three mutants, the mutations do not affect general processes in plastid transcription and/or translation. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Macroarray analyses demonstrated that all plastid-encoded genes are expressed in the mutants. In most cases, these data confirmed the results obtained by RNA gel blot analyses. Differences in the mRNA results might be caused by radiolabeled antisense RNA, which also hybridized to the probes (CITATION; CITATION). However, compared with the wild type, we observed remarkable alterations (Figure 7). The transcript levels for components of the two photosystems and for the cytochrome b6/f complex are significantly reduced. For instance, the psbA mRNA level (for the D1 protein) in ptac2 and ptac12 and the psbA, psbC, and psbE mRNA levels (for CP43 and cytochrome b559/2) in ptac6 plants are reduced by 80 and 50%, respectively. In all three mutants, petB (for a subunit of the cytochrom b6/f complex) and rbcL (for the large subunit of ribulose-1,5-bis-phosphate carboxylase/oxygenase) transcripts accumulate to <50%. These mRNAs are probably transcribed from genes with PEP promoters. By contrast, rps, rpl (for ribosomal proteins), ndh (for subunits of the NADH dehydrogenase), atp (for subunits of the ATP synthase), rpo (for subunits of the RNA polymerase), and ycf (for hypothetical chloroplast open reading frames) genes are expressed at higher levels in all three mutants. These messages are transcribed from genes that may contain NEP promoter elements, either alone or in combination with PEP promoter elements. The expression pattern of the plastid genes in the mutants is identical to that described for Δrpo mutants and mutants that do not accumulate PEP. These mutants also contain reduced transcript levels for photosynthesis proteins, while ndh, atp, and rpo genes are expressed at higher levels (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). However, for some plastid genes (e.g., for clpP), the expression level in the wild type was not significantly different from the background. Finally, the reduced psbA mRNA level in ptac2 plants is caused by a reduced rate of psbA transcription as shown by run-on transcription assays, while transcription of atpB and clpP appear to be not affected in the mutant (Figure 8). We could not obtain enough chloroplasts from the homozygote mutants to unambiguously confirm this for the other genes and mutants. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To further substantiate the findings derived by macroarray analyses, representative genes were chosen for RNA gel blot analyses (Figure 9). Figure 9A shows genes (psaAB, psaC, psaJ, psbA, rbcL, and rps14) that are downregulated in the mutants, Figures 9B and 9D shows genes (atpB, clpP, and the nuclear-encoded genes psaH, psaE, and psbO) that do not respond significantly to the mutations, and Figure 9C shows genes (accD, atpA, ndhF, ndhB, and ycf3) that are upregulated in the mutants. Genes shown in Figure 9A contain only PEP promoter sequences, and their expression is also downregulated in Δrpo mutants and other mutants impaired in PEP function (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). By contrast, the Figures 9B and 9C show genes that contain NEP promoter elements either alone or in combination with PEP promoter elements. Again, these genes exhibit the same expression behavior in Δrpo mutants and other mutants impaired in PEP function (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Furthermore, we observed in all mutants defects in mRNA processing, since larger transcripts accumulate for accD, atpB, clpP, ndhB, ndhF, psaAB, rbcL, rps14, and ycf3. This is most obvious for the polycistronic transcript ycf3/psaA/psaB/rps14. Besides mRNAs with 3.2 and 5.2 kb, additional messages with 5.8 and 7.3 kb hybridize to the psaAB probe in the mutants. They represent unprocessed transcripts and include sequences for ycf3, as shown by the hybridization with the ycf3-specific probe (Figure 9C; CITATION; CITATION). Again, the very same lesions in the processing patterns were observed for Δrpo mutants and other PEP mutants. Taken together, these data suggest that the expression of genes encoding the three novel TAC proteins is required for proper function of PEP transcription machinery. Since messages for all genes studied are present in all three mutants and since at least some of them are also properly processed, the mutations do not completely inhibit crucial steps in plastid transcription or translation. pTAC2 and pTAC6 are also present in sRNAP preparations (CITATION), suggesting that they are preferentially involved in transcription rather than translation. [[FIGURE]] To analyze the effect of the pTAC-2, -6, and -12 mutations on PEP and NEP promoter activity in leaf tissue, we determined transcript levels by primer extension analyses mapping transcript 5′-ends for clpP and atpB, two representative plastid genes with NEP and PEP promoter elements (Figure 10). In these studies, we also included the pale-yellow-green (pyg) mutant 8 (lane 10; J. Stöckel and R. Oelmüller, unpublished data) because it exhibits a very similar phenotype and growth behavior as the ptac mutants. Since signals at the promoter initiation site are dependent on the mRNA level, we included into our investigations only such genes whose mRNA levels are not affected by the mutations. We did not observe any significant difference in the signal intensities at the NEP promoter site P-57 of clpP (panel clpP; CITATION). This example indicates that the NEP promoter usage is not altered in the ptac and pyg mutants. By contrast, the signal at the P-515/-520 PEP side of atpB is dramatically downregulated in ptac2 and ptac12 mutants (panel atpB, lanes 6 and 8) and below detectability in ptac6 plants (lane 7). Sequence alignments of atpB promoter sequences from different species indicate that the conserved regions represent PEP (-35/-10) elements (data not shown). Since the primer extension signal at this PEP site is nearly equal in the wild type and in the pyg8 mutant (Figure 10, lanes 9 and 10), it appears that the PEP promoter usage is specifically affected in the ptac mutants. [[FIGURE]] The expression of ptac2, -6, and -12 in organs with different types of plastids (Figure 3) suggests that the gene products are required for general processes of the PEP activity and not restricted to photosynthetically active plastids. To test this further and to exclude the possibility that the phenotypes of the mutants grown in low light (see Methods) are caused by photooxidative damage due to light stress, we repeated the RNA gel blot and primer extension analyses with etiolated material. Segregating populations were germinated in low light for 3 d to identify the homozygote seedlings. They were then transferred to complete darkness for an additional 18 d before harvest of the newly emerged etiolated leaves. RNA gel blot analyses for representative genes of the three classes described above (Figure 9) clearly indicate that the observed differences in the transcript levels in the mutants are not light dependent (Figure 9E). Furthermore, primer extension analysis for atpB also gave comparable results as obtained for seedlings grown in low light (data not shown; Figure 10). Finally, as described for seedlings grown in low light, the atpB transcript levels in etiolated material are similar or even higher in ptac2 and -12 plants (Figure 9E), although the primer extension signals at the PEP sites were downregulated (data not shown). This clearly indicates that ptac2, -6, and -12 function is not related to thylakoid biogenesis, photosynthesis, or photooxidative stress.
!~MM~! Sinapis alba var Albatros and Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) were used for all studies. The T-DNA insertion lines (Salk_075736, Salk_024431, and Salk_025099) were obtained from NASC. Arabidopsis was grown on Murashige and Skoog medium (CITATION) at 21°C with a day/night cycle of 16/8 h (50 to 60 μE m−2 s−1; Osram LW30); if not, other light intensities are mentioned. For propagation, Arabidopsis seedlings were transferred to soil after 18 d, and the seeds were harvested in Aracon tubes (Beta Tech). For analysis of tissue-specific gene expression and biochemical studies, Arabidopsis and mustard plants were grown on soil in a growth chamber (day/night rhythm of 16/8 h; 80 to 100 μE m−2 s−1, 21°C; Osram LW30). Chlorophyll and fluorescence measurements were performed with 14-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings (5 to 10 μE m−2 s−1; Osram LW30) grown on Murashige and Skoog medium. For fluorescence measurements, a Fluorcam 700 MF (Photon System Instruments) was used. After dark acclimation (15 min), the fluorescence were measured according to CITATION. The nomenclature of the standard chlorophyll parameters refer to CITATION. Chlorophyll and carotenoid pigments were determined by HPLC according to CITATION. Samples were ground in liquid nitrogen in Eppendorf tubes and extracted as described by CITATION. Chloroplasts were isolated from 2 to 3 kg cotyledons of 5-d-old mustard seedlings or 4-week-old Arabidopsis rosette leaves by sucrose gradient centrifugation (18 gradients at 35 mL; CITATION) at 4°C. After lyses of the chloroplasts in 200 mL buffer A (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, 100 mM [NH4]2SO4, 4 mM EDTA, 25% glycerol, 1% Triton X-100, 40 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, and 50 μg/mL phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride [PMSF]; CITATION), the insoluble material was removed by centrifugation (20,000g, 4°C, 30 min). Thirty microliters of the soluble fraction was used for gel filtration on several Sepharose 4B columns (2 cm diameter, 100 cm length, column volume 380 mL) at 4°C with buffer A. Fractions with transcriptional activity were combined and the TAC precipitated by ultracentrifugation (5 h, 200,000g, 4°C). The pellets were resuspended in 15 mL of buffer B (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, 100 mM [NH4]2SO4, 4 mM EDTA, 25% glycerol, 40 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, and 50 μg/mL PMSF), the insoluble material removed by centrifugation (10 min, 20,000g, 4°C), and the soluble proteins applied to a Sepharose 2B column (diameter 1.5 cm, length 170 cm, and volume 301 mL). After elution of the transcriptional active fractions with buffer B, the TAC was obtained by ultracentrifugation as described above. Final resuspension occurred in 1 mL of buffer C (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, 50 mM [NH4]2SO4, 4 mM EDTA, 10% glycerol, 40 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, and 50 μg/mL PMSF). Alternatively, the eluate of the first column was subjected to either Heparin Sepharose CL-6B or Q Sepharose chromatography. After resuspension of the TAC in 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, 50 mM [NH4]2SO4, 5 mM MgCl2; 10% glycerol, 40 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, and 50 μg/mL PMSF, and DNase/RNase treatment at 37°C for 1 h, it was loaded onto a Heparin Sepharose CL-6B column (diameter 1.0 cm, length 10 cm, and volume 7 mL). The proteins were eluted with 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, 2 M [NH4]2SO4, 10% glycerol, 4 mM EDTA, 40 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, and 50 μg/mL PMSF, dialyzed and concentrated against the buffer C, and used for MS. For Q Sepharose chromatography (diameter 1.0 cm, length 10 cm, and volume 7 mL), the DNase/RNase treatment was omitted. In vitro transcription was analyzed by measuring [3H]UTP incorporation into RNA under conditions as described by CITATION. One unit was defined as incorporation of 1 fmol [3H] into UTP in 30 min at 30°C (CITATION). After phenol/chloroform extraction of the transcriptionally active fraction, proteins were precipitated with ethanol, dried, and resuspended in 50 μL 50 mM NH4HCO3 and 0.05% β-dodecylmaltoside. After denaturation (95°C for 10 min), proteins were digested with trypsin according to manufacturer's instructions (Promega) at 37°C for 16 h. The peptides were then purified with POROS-R2 (Applied Biosystems) on a C18 Zip-Tip column (Millipore; CITATION). Silver-stained bands from protein gels were analyzed according to CITATION. MS and MS/MS spectra were recorded with a LCQ Deca XP IONTRAP mass spectrometer (Thermo) equipped with a nano-HPLC system (Ultimate; Dionex) according to CITATION. Liquid chromatography was performed with a reverse-phase column (PepMap C18 column; LC-Packings, Dionex). Identification of the proteins occurred with the Finnigan Sequest/Turbo Sequest software (revision 2.0; ThermoQuest) by comparing the recorded masses with those calculated for trypsin digestion products of all Arabidopsis peptides available in the databases (ftp://ftp.arabidopsis.org/sequences/blast_datasets/; The Arabidopsis Information Resource). Theme-specific plastome macroarrays were produced by spotting gene-specific PCR products of all 78 plastome-encoded proteins (100 to 500 bp in length, amplified from the 3′ end of the cDNA) in duplicates on Hybond N+ membranes (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). DIG-labeled cDNA of the wild type and mutants were synthesized from 5 μg of RNA and quantified as described by CITATION. Each cDNA from three independent experiments was hybridized with an array filter of the plastome macroarrays. Array hybridization and data evaluation were performed as described in detail by CITATION. The spot intensities were quantified with AIDA Array Vision software (Raytest) and normalized according to whole intensity of all spots on the array. Data management excluded all spots that gave signal intensities below 120% of the background or whose signals varied >50% in duplicates in at least one experiment. The normalized spot intensities were tested for each treatment against the wild type by the use of Student's t test analysis (P < 0.05, P < 0.1, and P < 0.2). To quantify differential expression of the mutant lines, IF was calculated by the ratio of the average normalized signal intensities of the mutant lines and the wild type. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR was performed using an iCycler iQ real-time PCR detection system and iCycler software version 2.2 (Bio-Rad). Total RNA was isolated from three independent replicates of seedlings. For the amplification of PCR products, iQ SYBR Green Supermix (Bio-Rad) was used according to the manufacturer's protocol in a final volume of 25 μL. The iCycler was programmed to 95°C 2 min; 40 × (95°C 30 s, 55°C 40 s, 72°C 45 s), 72°c 10 min followed by a melting curve program (55 to 95°C in increasing steps of 0.5°C). All reactions were performed in triplicate. The mRNA levels for each cDNA probe were normalized with respect to the actin mRNA level. Fold induction values of target genes were calculated with the ΔΔCP equation of CITATION and related to the mRNA level of target genes in cotyledons, which was defined as 1.0. Seedlings were either kept in low light (5 to 10 μE m−2 s−1; Osram LW30) or 3-d-old low-light grown seedlings were transferred to darkness for an additional 18 d. Primer extension reactions were performed with 10 μg of total leaf RNA according to standard protocols (CITATION). Briefly, primer PE3AthatpB (5′-CGGTTATGCGTCCCATTTATTCATC-3′; position 54,537) and PE104AthclpP (5′-GGTACTTTTGGAACGCCAATAGGC-3′; position 71,857) were end-labeled with [γ-32P]-ATP and T4 polynucleotide kinase. Primer extensions were performed using Superscript III MMLV reverse transcriptase (Gibco BRL) at 55°C and the resulting products analyzed on 5% sequencing gels. DNA sequences were generated by sequencing plasmid pMS2 and pMS3 using the same primer. Plasmid pMS2 harbors the Arabidopsis rbcL-atpB intergenic region (position 54,079 to 55,090), and pMS3 contains the Arabidopsis clpP upstream region (position 71,774 to 72,897; M. Swiatecka and K. Liere, unpublished data). Run-on assays were performed with 2 × 107 chloroplasts isolated from 12 g of leaves of 24-d-old plants in 100 μL of 50 mM Hepes-KOH, pH 8.0, 33 mM KCl, 10 mM MgCl2, 125 μM ATP, 125 μM CTP, 125 μM GTP, 10 μM UTP, 50 μCi α-32P-UTP (110 TBq/mmol), and 55 μg heparin (CITATION). Incorporation of α-32P-UTP into RNA was determined according to CITATION. Four picomoles plasmid DNA, denatured in 0.5 M NaOH, was immobilized on nylon membranes and hybridized to the radiolabeled transcripts. Analyses occurred with the Storm PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics). Methods not specified here were performed as described by CITATION. The following primers were used for the amplification of genomic or plastid DNA fragments from wild-type or knockout lines (SALK) or for cDNA fragments: left border of inserted T-DNA in the SALK lines, 5′-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG-3′; Salk_075736-f, 5′-TGTTTATGGGAAGACGGAGAG-3′; Salk_075736-r, 5′-GGTCGCATTATGTGCCAGC-3′; Salk_024431-f, 5′-ATGGCGTCTTCCGCCGCTTCTC-3′; Salk_024431-r, 5′-GATGTGCAATGAGTGACTATGGATG-3′; Salk_025099-f, 5′-GCGGTTATGGATTTCAGAGGACC-3′; Salk_025099-r, 5′-GAAGAGGAGACTGATCCTTAA-3′; ptac2-3f, 5′-AAGCGTGGACTTTTCCCTGAG-3′; At1g74850-r, 5′-TTAAGCTGTGCTCCCTGCTAGTTCTT-3′; ptac6-2f, 5′-ACCGGAACAGAAGGACAAACG-3′; At1g21600-r, 5′-TTCAGTGTCTCAAATTGGTTCTAG-3′; ptac12-2f, 5′-CAAAAGAGAAAACCGAGCAGC-3′; At2g34640-r, 5′-TTAAGGATCAGTCTCCTCTTC-3′; actin-f, 5′-GGTAACATTGTGCTCAGTGGTGG-3′; actin-r, 5′-CTCGGCCTTGGAGATCCACATC-3′; accD-f, 5′-TGGATAGTTTTGCTCCTGGTGA-3′; accD-r, 5′-TCACGAATCTTTCCGCTTTCA-3′; clpP-f, 5′-CCTGGAGAAGGAGATACATCTTGG-3′; clpP-r, 5′-CTTGGGCTTCTGTTGCTGAC-3′; atpA-f, 5′-TGGTAACCATTAGAGCCGACG-3′; atpA-r, 5′-CGACGATTGGTAAGGCAGTCA-3′; atpB-f, 5′-GACGTATCGCCCAAATCATTG-3′; atpB-r, 5′-CGCTGGATAGATACCTTTGGCA-3′; ndhB-f, 5′-CTTCAGCTTCAGCCACTCGAA-3′; ndhB-r, 5′-CAATCGCAATAATCGGGTTCA-3′; ndhF-f, 5′-TCCTTTTTCCGACAGCAACAA-3′; ndhF-r, 5′-CTCCATGGCATCAGGTAACCA-3′; rbcL-f, 5′-GTATGGACGTCCCCTATTAGGATG-3′; rbcL-r, 5′-GGTAGTGAGACCCAATCTTGAGTG-3′; rps14-f, 5′-TCATTTGATTCGTCGATCCTCA-3′; rps14-r, 5′-AACCATTTCCCGAAGGATGTG-3′; ycf3-f, 5′-ATGTCGGCTCAATCTGAAGGA-3′; ycf3-r; 5′-CGGTAATGACAGATCACAGCCA-3′. Insertions were checked by amplifying DNA fragments with gene-specific and T-DNA–specific primers. After cloning into the pGem-T vector, the insertions were sequenced. For RNA gel blot analyses and macroarray analyses, total RNA from 18-d-old wild-type or mutant plants or the tissue indicated in the figure was isolated with Trizol reagent (Gibco BRL). Etiolated material (see above) was used for the results shown in Figure 9E. For RNA gel blot analyses, RNA was isolated according to CITATION, and 15 μg was loaded per lane. RT-PCR was performed with RevertAid H Minus M-MuLV reverse transcriptase according to the manufacturer's instruction (MBI-Fermentas). For the immunological detection of proteins on membranes, plant material was homogenized with liquid nitrogen and dissolved in a fivefold excess of homogenization buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 10 mM EDTA, 2 mM EGTA, and 10 mM DTT). After separation of soluble and membrane-bound proteins by centrifugation (10 min, 17,000g), soluble proteins were precipitated with trichloroacetic acid and resuspended in gel loading buffer (100 mM NaCO3, 50 mM DTT, and 10% saccharose). The pellet containing membrane proteins was resuspended in gel loading buffer. The primary antibodies used for protein gel blot analyses have been described (CITATION). All procedures of electron microscopy were also described (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers listed in Table 2.
