!~ABS~! How cells achieve their final sizes is a pervasive biological question. One strategy to increase cell size is for the cell to amplify its chromosomal DNA content through endoreduplication cycles. Although endoreduplication is widespread in eukaryotes, we know very little about its molecular mechanisms. Successful progression of the endoreduplication cycle in Arabidopsis requires a plant homologue of archaeal DNA topoisomerase (topo) VI. To further understand how DNA is endoreduplicated and how this process is regulated, we isolated a dwarf Arabidopsis mutant, hyp7 (hypocotyl 7), in which various large cell types that in the wild type normally endoreduplicate multiple times complete only the first two rounds of endoreduplication and stall at 8C. HYP7 encodes the RHL1 (ROOT HAIRLESS 1) protein, and sequence analysis reveals that RHL1 has similarity to the C-terminal domain of mammalian DNA topo IIα, another type II topo that shares little sequence homology with topo VI. RHL1 shows DNA binding activity in vitro, and we present both genetic and in vivo evidence that RHL1 forms a multiprotein complex with plant topo VI. We propose that RHL1 plays an essential role in the topo VI complex to modulate its function and that the two distantly related topos, topo II and topo VI, have evolved a common domain that extends their function. Our data suggest that plant topo II and topo VI play distinct but overlapping roles during the mitotic cell cycle and endoreduplication cycle.
!~RES~!  hyp7 Has a Reduced Cell Size Phenotype. The hyp7 mutant exhibits an extreme dwarf phenotype similar to that of rhl2 and hyp6 (CITATION) in the dark and in the light (FIG-REF). Scanning electron microscopy revealed that the leaf adaxial epidermis of hyp7 lacks the large interlocked pavement cells characteristic of wild-type leaves (FIG-REF) and that the epidermal cells develop as small, smooth-surfaced cells (FIG-REF). By quantifying the surface area of these epidermal cell types, we found that the maximum cell size in hyp7 is reduced at least to half that of the wild type (Fig. 6, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). The size of the trichomes, another large cell type in the leaf epidermis, is also reduced in hyp7 and is accompanied by reduced branching (FIG-REF). In contrast, guard cells in hyp7 appear to be normal in size and shape (FIG-REF), and, although the total number of adaxial epidermal cells in an individual hyp7 leaf is reduced by ≈2-fold, the frequency and patterning of trichomes and guard cells do not appear to be affected (data not shown). The growth of root hairs is also severely disturbed in hyp7, with only a few visible hairs on primary roots (FIG-REF). We tested whether hyp7 has defects in cell proliferation by dissecting root segments from 7-day-old seedlings and inducing callus formation on culture plates. As shown in FIG-REF, hyp7 calli can grow for 4-6 weeks with a growth rate similar to wild-type calli. In addition, we found that cells in wild-type and hyp7 calli are within a similar size range (FIG-REF), suggesting that hyp7 calli contain a similar number of cells and, thus, that hyp7 cells can proliferate mitotically as efficiently as wild-type cells. [[FIGURE]] Lack of fully developed trichomes and root hairs in hyp7 could result from impairment in either the initial cell fate specification or subsequent cell enlargement. To test whether trichomes and root hairs in hyp7 have their cell fates correctly specified, we introduced a GL2::GUS construct (CITATION) into hyp7 to mark the differentiation of trichomes and root hairs. The GL2 gene is expressed preferentially in trichomes in wild-type leaves (FIG-REF) and non-hair-forming cell files (atrichoblasts) in wild-type roots (FIG-REF). We found that hyp7 has similar GL2::GUS expression patterns in leaf trichomes (FIG-REF) and in root atrichoblasts (FIG-REF), suggesting that trichomes and root hairs in hyp7 have been correctly specified but subsequently fail to increase in size.  HYP7 Is Essential for Successive Endocycles Beyond 8C. The growth defects of hyp7 in cell types that normally endoreduplicate, i.e., hypocotyl cells, leaf pavement cells, trichomes, and root hairs, suggest that hyp7 has a ploidy defect. Flow cytometric analysis revealed that cells in 14-day-old wild-type Arabidopsis leaves endoreduplicate up to four times to reach 32C, but hyp7 goes through only two endocycles and halts at 8C (FIG-REF). In addition, by quantifying the size of DAPI-labeled nuclei relative to the nuclei in guard cells (FIG-REF) and root cap cells (FIG-REF) as 2C controls, we found that fully differentiated wild-type trichomes and root hair cells contain nuclei up to 32C (n = 30) and 16C (n = 30), respectively (FIG-REF), but only up to 8C in hyp7 (n = 30) (FIG-REF). To further characterize the nature of the endoreduplication defect in hyp7, we generated double mutants between hyp7 and several over-endoreduplicated, over-branched trichome mutants, such as kak2, rfi, and try (CITATION). (For details, see Supporting Materials and Methods, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site.) As shown in Fig. 7, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site, hyp7 kak2, hyp7 rfi, and hyp7 try double mutants have small, under-branched trichomes similar to those found in hyp7, suggesting that hyp7 is epistatic to kak2, rfi, and try for the trichome growth and branching phenotypes. In all double mutants, the maximum ploidy level remains at approximately 8C (data not shown). The plant hormone gibberellin promotes one extra endocycle and additional branching in wild-type Arabidopsis trichomes (CITATION). However, the application of exogenous gibberellin to hyp7 seedlings does not rescue the under-endoreduplicated, under-branched trichome phenotype (data not shown), suggesting that HYP7 is essential for successive endocycles beyond 8C. [[FIGURE]]  Positional Cloning of HYP7 and RHL3. By positional cloning (see Supporting Materials and Methods for details), we found that HYP7 encodes the RHL1 protein (At1g48380) (CITATION). The hyp7 mutation substitutes adenine for guanine in the first exon and replaces the amino acid glycine (Gly-79) with aspartic acid (FIG-REF, g→a). The previously described mutant allele rhl1, which has a T-DNA insertion in the first exon (CITATION), has a dwarf and reduced ploidy phenotype indistinguishable from hyp7 (data not shown), and F1 plants from crosses between rhl1 and hyp7 show the same mutant phenotype, thus confirming the identity of the gene. We therefore renamed hyp7 as rhl1-2. RT-PCR analysis revealed that the rhl1-2 mutation alters neither the size nor abundance of the RHL1 transcript (FIG-REF). However, the mutation appears to destabilize the RHL1 protein because our immunoblot analysis with an RHL1-specific antiserum did not detect a corresponding protein band in rhl1-2 (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Because rhl1 and rhl2 were originally isolated in a mutant screen (CITATION) together with another similar mutant, rhl3, we reexamined this third mutant. Phenotypic and flow cytometric analyses revealed that rhl3 exhibits almost the same phenotype as rhl1 and rhl2, i.e., an extreme dwarf (FIG-REF) associated with reduced cell size and ploidy level (data not shown). By using positional cloning, we found that RHL3 is allelic to AtTOP6B/HYP6 (At3g20780), a plant homologue of archaeal topo VI subunit B. The rhl3-1 mutant has a single-nucleotide exchange from guanine to adenine at the splicing acceptor site of the 17th intron (FIG-REF). By using RT-PCR analysis, we found that this mutation abolishes proper splicing of the AtTOP6B/HYP6 transcript, resulting in the transcription of mRNA with at least three altered sizes (FIG-REF). All of these misspliced products create a premature stop codon in the following exon (FIG-REF), suggesting that rhl3-1 functions as a null allele. The genetic cross between rhl3-1 and hyp6, another mutant allele of AtTOP6B (described in ref. CITATION), does not complement the mutant phenotype, thus confirming the allelism of the two mutations.  RHL1 Interacts with RHL2 in Vivo. The RHL1 protein has been described as a plant-specific, nuclear-targeted protein of unknown function (CITATION). Apart from several putative nuclear localization signals, phosphorylation sites and a PEST sequence [a putative proteasome-dependent protein degradation motif (CITATION)], the deduced amino acid sequence of RHL1 (FIG-REF) does not have strong homology to any functional domains characterized to date. However, by sequence analysis with phi-blast, we found that the C terminus of RHL1 has weak but significant sequence similarity to the C-terminal ≈220 aa of mammalian DNA topo IIα, sharing, for example, a total of 22% identical and 11% similar amino acids with mouse topo IIα (FIG-REF). Eukaryotic topo II belongs to a subclass of type II topo (type IIA) and is required to untangle newly replicated double-stranded DNA during chromosome segregation (CITATION). Only mammalian species, including mouse, hamster, and human, appear to have two isoforms of topo II, topo IIα and topo IIβ, but exactly how their functions differ is not clear. topo IIα and topo IIβ in mouse are encoded by separate genes to form ≈1,530- and ≈1,620-residue proteins, respectively. These share up to 78% sequence homology at their N-terminal three-quarters but only 34% at their C-terminal quarter (CITATION). Our sequence analysis did not detect significant amino acid identities between RHL1 and topo IIβ (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Our findings that the rhl1 phenotype is indistinguishable from that of topo VI mutants Atspo11-3/rhl2 and Attop6b/hyp6/rhl3 (FIG-REF) and that RHL1 has sequence similarity to a functionally related topo IIα (FIG-REF) suggest that RHL1 functions closely with topo VI. To investigate the functional relationship between RHL1 and topo VI, we generated double mutants between rhl1 and our topo VI mutants. As shown in FIG-REF, both rhl1-2 rhl2-1 and rhl1-2 rhl3-1 double mutants show a dwarf phenotype nearly identical to that of their respective parents, suggesting that, genetically, RHL1 functions in the same pathway or complex as topo VI. To further test whether RHL1 can form a protein complex with topo VI, we used a yeast two-hybrid assay to examine whether RHL1 interacts with topo VI in vivo. Hartung and Puchta (CITATION) previously reported that AtSPO11-3/RHL2 can interact with AtTOP6B/HYP6/RHL3 in a yeast interaction assay. In addition, we found that both proteins also self-interact (FIG-REF), suggesting that Arabidopsis topo VI forms a similar A2B2 heterotetramer complex as archaeal topo VI (CITATION). Furthermore, our interaction assay showed that RHL1 can bind to AtSPO11-3/RHL2 but not directly to AtTOP6B/HYP6/RHL3 (FIG-REF), suggesting that RHL1 forms a protein complex with topo VI by binding to subunit A. By expressing the RHL1rhl1-2 protein we found that the rhl1-2 mutation does not interfere with RHL1 binding to AtSPO11-3/RHL2, at least not in yeast (FIG-REF).  RHL1 Binds to DNA in Vitro. The function of topo II's C-terminal region is not well understood, except that it is implicated in the regulation of topo II (CITATION). Recent studies on two other closely related type IIA topos, DNA gyrase and topo IV, suggest that their C-terminal domains bind and bend DNA to correctly position substrate DNA for the enzymatic reaction (CITATION, CITATION). Although RHL1 does not have significant homology to the C terminus of DNA gyrase or topo IV, it is possible that RHL1 performs a similar function. We therefore tested whether the recombinant RHL1 protein can bind to DNA in vitro (see Supporting Materials and Methods for details). Using surface plasmon resonance (SPR), we found that RHL1 binds to DNA in a concentration- and salt-dependent manner (FIG-REF). Two of the recombinant proteins tested, T7::RHL1 and His::S::RHL1, but not our His::control protein exhibit similar DNA-binding properties, indicating that the observed DNA binding is not an artifact of fusion tags on their N terminus. In addition, we found that the preincubation of the RHL1 protein with various concentrations of relaxed or negatively supercoiled pBR322 plasmid DNA reduces the affinity of RHL1 for the DNA fragment on the SPR chip (FIG-REF), providing further evidence for the specific binding of RHL1 to DNA. Relaxed and negatively supercoiled DNAs are equally efficient at reducing the DNA-binding capacity of RHL1 (FIG-REF), suggesting that DNA binding by RHL1 is insensitive to DNA topology. The DNA binding of RHL1 we measured in vitro does not appear to be lost by the rhl1-2 mutation, although its efficiency might be slightly reduced (FIG-REF).  Differential Requirement of topo II and topo VI in Arabidopsis. Our phenotypic analysis suggests that the plant topo VI complex is required for the endocycle beyond 8C. Plant topo VI appears to be dispensable for the mitotic cell cycle because the mutant callus can proliferate as efficiently as wild-type (FIG-REF). The Arabidopsis genome encodes a gene for another topo II, and its abundance has been previously correlated with cell proliferation (CITATION). Although topo II and topo VI have distinct primary sequences and tertiary structures, they share a number of enzymatic properties in vitro (CITATION). It is therefore possible that topo II can resolve chromosome entanglements during the mitotic cell cycle and early stages of the endocycle. To test this possibility, we first examined the level of topo II and topo VI gene expression in proliferating and endoreduplicating cells. From a recent microarray analysis that clustered gene expression profiles associated with cell cycle transitions in Arabidopsis leaves (CITATION), we found that the topo II gene, AtTOP2, is preferentially expressed in proliferating cells, whereas all topo VI genes, AtSPO11-3/RHL2, AtTOP6B/HYP6/RHL3, and RHL1, are expressed in proliferating and endoreduplicating cells. Our RT-PCR analysis of Arabidopsis leaves harvested at equivalent developmental stages confirmed the differential expression patterns between topo II and topo VI (FIG-REF). In addition, our in vivo visualization revealed that the AtSPO11-3/RHL2 protein fused to GFP is present in both shoot apical meristem and young leaf petiole cells (FIG-REF), further supporting our finding that the topo VI protein is expressed during the mitotic cell cycle and endocycle. The presence of the GFP signal in a subpopulation of cells suggests that the expression and/or stability of the protein are tightly regulated. [[FIGURE]] To further address the functional relationship between topo II and topo VI, we treated wild-type seedlings with a topo II poison, etoposide, at the concentration that blocks the Arabidopsis topo II activity in vitro (CITATION). As shown in FIG-REF, seedlings germinated in the light with 100 μM etoposide are able to expand cotyledons and form short roots but fail to develop true leaves and to establish root systems, strongly suggesting the requirement of topo II for cell proliferation at the shoot and root apical meristems. We also found that etoposide inhibits callus formation severely, further confirming that topo II plays a major role during the mitotic cell cycle (FIG-REF). Arabidopsis hypocotyls elongate primarily by cell expansion in the dark, which is correlated with an increase in the ploidy level through endoreduplication (CITATION). We found that 100 μM etoposide has little effect on the hypocotyl elongation in the dark (FIG-REF) or its ploidy level (data not shown), suggesting that topo II is dispensable for endoreduplication. A higher concentration (170 μM) of etoposide inhibits archaeal topo VI activity in vitro (CITATION) but a concentration up to 200 μM etoposide does not perturb hypocotyl elongation or phenocopy topo VI mutants, suggesting that etoposide does not affect plant topo VI at these concentrations.
!~MM~!  Plant Material and Growth Conditions. The hyp7 mutant was isolated from a screen of short-hypocotyl mutants. The rhl1-1, rhl2-1, and rhl3-1 mutants were isolated previously (CITATION, CITATION). The kak2 (kaktus 2), rfi (rastafari), and try (triptychon) mutants (CITATION) were provided by Martin Hulskamp (University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany). Plants were grown on plates containing MS salts (pH 5.8), 1% (wt/vol) sucrose, and 0.5% (wt/vol) phytagel. Callus was produced from wild-type and hyp7 roots dissected from 7-day-old seedlings and grown on plates as described by May and Leaver (CITATION).  Histochemical Analysis of β-Glucuronidase (GUS). The GL2::GUS reporter construct (CITATION) was introduced into hyp7 by a genetic cross. Seedlings were fixed in 90% acetone at -20°C for 1 h and incubated in GUS staining buffer (100 mM NaH2PO4/10 mM Na2EDTA/0.5 mM K3Fe(CN)6/0.5 mM K4Fe(CN)6·3H2O/0.1% Triton X-100/0.5 mg/ml X-glucuronide, pH 7.0) for 1 h.  Ploidy Measurements. The ploidy level of 14-day-old leaf nuclei was measured by flow cytometry as described in ref. CITATION. To examine the ploidy level of trichome and root hair cells, 14-day-old seedlings were fixed in 3:1 95% ethanol/acetic acid, cleared in 100% ethanol, and rehydrated through an ethanol series (90%, 70%, 50%, and 30%). Leaves were stained with Cystain fluorescent buffer (Partec, Münster, Germany) and washed three times in water. Nuclear images were recorded by epifluorescence microscopy (model E600, Nikon). The ploidy level was measured by using the area and mean gray value tool of imagej 1.32j (CITATION) and was expressed as area x mean gray value.  Yeast Two-Hybrid Assay. Full-length cDNAs of RHL1, RHL1rhl1-2, AtSPO11-3/RHL2, and AtTOP6B/HYP6/RHL3 were amplified from RT-PCR products and cloned into pLexA (binding-domain fusion) or pB42AD (activator-domain fusion) vectors (Matchmaker LexA two-hybrid system, Clontech). Interactions were detected by the induction of the lacZ reporter genes under the control of the lexA gene in yeast EGY48 cells.  Semiquantitative RT-PCR and in Vivo Localization Analysis. For semiquantitative RT-PCR, total RNAs were extracted from leaves by using an RNeasy kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) and treated with RNase-free DNase I (Roche). One microgram of DNA-free total RNA was reverse-transcribed with Expand reverse transcriptase (Roche). For cell cycle transition studies, 9-, 15-, 22-day-old leaves were prepared according to Beemster et al. (CITATION). To study the in vivo expression pattern of plant topo VI proteins, a 3-kb genomic fragment of AtSPO11-3/RHL2 that comprises its 1.5-kb 5′ upstream region and 1.5-kb coding sequence were PCR-amplified and subcloned as a KpnI-XhoI fragment into the pGR4 vector, which contains a C-terminal GFP tag. The resultant pRHL2::RHL2::GFP was transformed into wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings by an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation method (CITATION). GFP images were recorded by using epifluorescence microscopy (Nikon E600, Japan) equipped with a cooled charge-coupled device digital camera (Hamamatsu, Hamamatsu City, Japan). Three-dimensional images were obtained by collecting 10-15 optical sections (each section ≈1 μm thick) in the z axis. Z sections were deconvolved with AutoDeblur (AutoQuant, Troy, NY) and projected with imagej.
