!~ABS~! PICKLE (PKL) codes for a CHD3 chromatin remodeling factor that plays multiple roles in Arabidopsis growth and development. Previous analysis of the expression of genes that exhibit PKL-dependent regulation suggested that PKL acts during germination to repress expression of embryonic traits. In this study, we examined the expression of PKL protein to investigate when and where PKL acts to regulate development. A PKL:eGFP translational fusion is preferentially localized in the nucleus of cells, consistent with the proposed role for PKL as a chromatin remodeling factor. A steroid-inducible version of PKL [a fusion of PKL to the glucocorticoid receptor (PKL:GR)] was used to examine when PKL acts to repress expression of embryonic traits. We found that activation of PKL:GR during germination was sufficient to repress expression of embryonic traits in the primary roots of pkl seedlings, whereas activation of PKL:GR after germination had little effect. In contrast, we observed that PKL is required continuously after germination to repress expression of PHERES1, a type I MADS box gene that is normally expressed during early embryogenesis in wild-type plants. Thus, PKL acts at multiple points during development to regulate patterns of gene expression in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! Polyclonal antibodies to PKL recognize a protein of an apparent molecular weight of about 200 kD in crude extracts from 3-day-old seedlings of wild-type plants (Figure 1a, lane 1). The observed molecular weight of PKL is substantially different from the predicted molecular weight of 158 kD; however, Western analysis of PKL protein produced in Saccharomyces cerevisiaeand in Escherichia coli indicates that it migrates with the same apparent molecular weight as observed in extracts from Arabidopsis (data not shown), suggesting that the increased apparent molecular weight of PKL is unlikely to be due to some modification of PKL protein that occurs in plant cells. PKL protein is absent in plants carrying a fast neutron-derived allele of PKL, pkl-7 (CITATION; Figure 1a, lane 3). PKL is substantially reduced in abundance in extracts carrying an Ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS)-derived allele of PKL, pkl-1 (CITATION; Figure 1a, lane 2). Sequence analysis of the pkl-1 allele revealed a G to A transition that alters the consensus sequence for the 3’ splice site upstream of exon no. 15 leading to the use of an alternate splice site that results in a 9-nucleotide in-frame deletion of the PKL transcript. This deletion corresponds to amino acids 633–635 from the PKL protein, which lie in the conserved ATPase domain necessary for the remodeling activity of SWI/SNF proteins. [[FIGURE]] We next used the α-PKL antibodies to examine developmental regulation of PKL protein (Figure 1b). The greatest levels of PKL protein were observed in tissue undergoing significant differentiation such as young seedlings, influorescent tissue and young siliques. This pattern of expression is consistent with previous transcript analysis (CITATION) and with the hypothesis that one of the primary roles of PKL is to act as a determination factor during differentiation. Decreasing amounts of PKL were observed as organs aged. Markedly less PKL protein is found in older siliques than in younger siliques (lane 8 versus lanes 6 and 7) and in 15-day-old rosette tissue versus 3-day-old seedlings (lane 4 versus lane 2). Previous data have suggested that PKL acted during germination to repress expression of genes that promote embryonic identity (CITATION), so we used western analysis to examine the level of PKL protein in greater detail after seed imbibition (Figure 1c). As in our previous analyses (CITATION; CITATION), we consider germination to begin with seed imbibition (defined as when the seeds are sterilized) and to end with emergence of the radicle from the seed coat. We observed that PKL protein was expressed during germination (0.5 day versus 1.5 days), consistent with the hypothesis that PKL acts during germination to repress transcription of target genes. However, the peak of PKL protein accumulation, occurred after seedlings had completed germination (2.5–4 days after seed imbibition). This observation indicated that PKL is also likely to play a significant role in gene expression in young seedlings after germination. PKL codes for a CHD3 chromatin remodeling factor that is predicted to function in the nucleus. To examine the localization of the PKL protein, we fused enhanced GFP (eGFP) to the 3’ end of the PKL open reading frame (ORF) and expressed the resulting PKL:eGFP fusion under the control of the endogenous PKL promoter and terminator. This fusion construct is capable of rescuing all of the associated mutant phenotypes when transformed into a pkl-1 plant (Figure 2a,b). Thus localization of the PKL:eGFP translational fusion is likely to reflect that of the endogenous PKL protein. We observed that GFP fluorescence was nuclear localized in transgenic plants carrying the PKL:eGFP translational fusion (Figure 2c,e). Identification of the nuclear compartment was confirmed by staining the roots with 4′-6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) (Figure 2f). In contrast, a PKL:eGFP transcriptional fusion in which expression was directed by the same genomic sequences is detected in both the cytoplasm and nucleus of cells (Figure 2g), indicating that the nuclear localization exhibited by the translational fusion is conferred by the PKL amino acid sequence. The transcriptional and translational fusions otherwise exhibit a similar pattern of expression, with the exception that transgenic lines carrying the transcriptional fusion exhibit much greater fluorescence than lines carrying the translation fusion (data not shown). The presence of the PKL:eGFP translational fusion in trichomes (Figure 2c) is consistent with the observation that the trichomes of pkl plants exhibit a reduced branching phenotype. This observation also demonstrates that PKL is expressed even in highly differentiated cells. Although eGFP reporter constructs are ubiquitously expressed (Figure 2c, d,h), the greatest expression was observed in tissue undergoing differentiation (Figure 2h–i). These data are consistent with the Western analysis (Figure 1b). [[FIGURE]] Recent work has highlighted the contribution of the endosperm of the mature seed to storage reserve mobilization and post-germinative growth of dark-grown seedlings (CITATION). The implication of this work is that gene expression occurs in two distinct developmental compartments during germination: the embryo and the endosperm. To address the possibility that PKL functions in the endosperm as well as the seedling during germination, we examined expression of the PKL:eGFP translational fusion in germinating seeds. We were unable to detect GFP fluorescence in the endosperm/seed coat of germinating seeds despite robust detection of GFP fluorescence in the seedling (data not shown). These data suggest that PKL is unlikely to play a role in regulation of gene expression in the endosperm during germination and that PKL-dependent expression that occurs during this time is most likely due to the action of PKL in the developing embryo. The discovery that PKL protein accumulation is constitutively nuclear localized suggested that we might be able to use the glucocorticoid receptor (CITATION; CITATION) to generate an inducible version of PKL protein. We fused the ligand-binding domain of the glucocorticoid receptor to full-length PKL ORF to generate a PKL:GR translational fusion. This construct was then placed under the control of the endogenous PKL promoter and terminator as described above for the PKL:eGFP fusions. We isolated transgenic pkl-1 lines carrying the PKL:GR fusion, selected lines in which segregation of the resistance marker indicated that a single insertion event had taken place, and scored homozygous T3 progeny of these lines for penetrance of the pickle root phenotype in the presence and absence of Dex. We observed that penetrance of the pickle root phenotype varied in individual T3 lines, which is consistent with prior characterization of this trait (CITATION and J. Ogas, unpublished observations). Penetrance of the pickle root phenotype depends on the genotype and ecotype of the plants, how the parent plants are grown, the age of the seeds, and the conditions under which the seeds are plated. As a result, penetrance of the pickle root phenotype does vary from experiment to experiment as it is technically impossible to carry out all of the experiments with the same batch of seed at the same time. In any given experiment, all seeds are obtained from plants grown in the same chamber at the same time so as to provide a suitable control, analogous to what must be done for studies of seed germination. In the case of characterization of penetrance of the pickle root phenotype in T3 lines, the position of the T-DNA integration event as well as any extraneous mutations introduced by transformation are also likely to have contributed to the observed variation in pickle root penetrance. We examined six T3 lines in all, of which five exhibited at least a 30% Dex-dependent decrease in pickle root penetrance (Figure 3a). The ability of Dex to rescue the pickle root phenotype of transgenic pkl-1 plants carrying the PKL:GR fusion was consistent with the hypothesis that PKL functions in the nucleus. This result furthermore demonstrated that activation of PKL:GR after imbibition is sufficient to rescue the pickle root phenotype, an observation that is consistent with the hypothesis that PKL acts during germination to repress genes that promote embryonic identity. [[FIGURE]] To determine if there was a particular phase of development during which PKL:GR was capable of rescuing the pickle root phenotype, PKL:GR transformants of pkl-1 plants (henceforth referred to as pkl-1/PKL:GR plants) were transferred to or from Dex-containing media at different times during the first 96 h after seed imbibition. Specifically, seed from the GR-3 T3 line (Figure 3a) was used in this and all subsequent analyses involving pkl-1/PKL:GR plants. Previous work has demonstrated that transgenic plants expressing a GR fusion can respond to application of Dex prior to germination (CITATION), indicating that the initial presence of an intact seed coat would not prevent Dex from reaching the seedling. In fact, we observed that as time after imbibition increased, the pkl-1/PKL:GR seedlings became less responsive to induction/repression of PKL:GR (Figure 3b). We found that after 60 h in either the absence or the presence of Dex, the fate of the primary root of pkl-1/PKL:GR seedlings was largely determined even though 100% germination was not obtained until 96 h. Thus PKL:GR can only suppress expression of the pickle root phenotype if induced prior to the completion of germination. Conversely, transient activation of PKL:GR during germination is sufficient to establish repression of embryonic traits; continuous exposure to Dex is not required for repression of the pickle root fate in pkl-1/PKL:GR seedlings. Although these data indicate that PKL can act during germination to repress expression of embryonic traits, they do not exclude the possibility that PKL can also act during seed formation to enable subsequent repression of embryonic traits during germination. To test this hypothesis, we examined pickle root penetrance in the progeny of pkl-1/PKL:GR plants that had been grown in the absence or presence of Dex (Figure 4). A GR fusion expressed in the seed has previously been demonstrated to exhibit Dex-dependent activity (CITATION), and PKL is abundantly expressed in young embryos (Figure 2d), suggesting that the PKL:GR fusion was likely to be Dex-responsive during this period of development. Consistent with this supposition, we found that siliques of pkl-1/PKL:GR plants grown in the presence of Dex were restored to nearly wild-type length, indicating that application of Dex can rescue pkl-associated traits in developing pkl-1/PKL:GR siliques (Figure 4a). However, penetrance of the pickle root trait in the subsequent generation was insensitive to application of Dex to the parent (Figure 4b). Application of Dex during pkl-1/PKL:GR seed formation did not decrease pickle root penetrance in the resulting progeny (black bars denote absence of Dex during seed formation whereas white bars denote presence of Dex during seed formation). In fact, application of Dex during seed formation resulted in an increase in pickle root penetrance in a manner that was not dependent on the presence of the GR gene as it occurred in both pkl-1 and pkl-1/PKL:GR lines. This effect, albeit surprising at first glance, is consistent with prior characterization of the pickle root penetrance as being responsive to the conditions under which the parent plant is grown. In contrast, application of Dex during germination of pkl-1/PKL:GR seeds suppressed pickle root penetrance regardless of the treatment during seed formation but had no measurable effect on pickle root penetrance of pkl-1 seed. These data reveal that action of PKL during seed formation is not sufficient to repress expression of embryonic traits in the subsequent generation. [[FIGURE]] Taken together, our data strongly suggest that PKL acts specifically during germination to repress the potential of the young seedling to express embryonic traits and thus enable the developmental switch to post-germinative growth. In addition to the pickle root trait, pkl plants exhibit pleiotropic defects in shoot development including dark green leaves, reduced stature and delayed flowering (CITATION; CITATION). We examined the shoot phenotype of pkl-1/PKL:GR plants that were grown in the presence or absence of Dex. We found that Dex-treated pkl-1/PKL:GR plants exhibited partial to complete suppression of various pkl-associated traits assayed, including rescue of the rosette size, height and flowering time (Figure 5a,b; data not shown). These data suggest that the PKL:GR fusion protein can also act in the shoot to regulate gene expression. [[FIGURE]] Our analysis of PKL protein expression (Figures 1 and 2) in combination with previous analyses of PKL transcript accumulation (CITATION; CITATION) indicated that PKL was likely to act at other points in the plant life cycle in addition to germination to regulate gene expression. However, our characterization of the time of PKL action (Figure 3b) was consistent with an alternative hypothesis that the pkl shoot phenotypes that arise after germination are primarily due to the establishment of improper patterns of gene regulation during germination of pkl seedlings. In support of such a hypothesis, it has previously been observed that pkl leaves accumulate elevated levels of the FUS3 transcript (CITATION) and that transgenic plants exhibiting ectopic expression of FUS3 in the L1 layer of the shoot exhibit GA-deficient phenotypes (CITATION) reminiscent of those exhibited by pkl plants. To examine the contribution of PKL action during germination to post-germinative development, we examined the shoot phenotype of pkl-1/PKL:GR plants that were only treated with Dex after seed germination. We found that these Dex-treated plants exhibited a substantially wild-type shoot phenotype, whereas plants that were treated with Dex only during germination but not afterwards did not rescue the pickle shoot phenotype as effectively (Figure 5c). Thus these data suggest that the shoot phenotype of pkl plants is primarily due to the absence of PKL activity after germination. In order to examine when PKL acted after germination to regulate development, we needed a distinct marker for PKL action in the shoot similar to that of the pickle root phenotype. Ongoing analysis of candidate genes for PKL-dependent expression in young seedlings (selected on the basis of their predicted/demonstrated role in embryo development) uncovered two genes that exhibited robust PKL-dependent expression after germination (Table 1; data not shown). PHERES1 (PHE1) and PHERES2 (PHE2) code for type I MADS box proteins that are transiently expressed in young embryos (CITATION). We extracted RNA from plants that were staged at 50% germination (i.e. 50% of the seedlings had completed germination based on emergence of the radicle from the seed coat), 4-day-old seedlings and from 21-day-old rosette tissue from wild-type and pkl plants and analyzed relative transcript levels by quantitative reverse transcription (qRT)-PCR (Table 1). We observed that PHE1 and PHE2 exhibit strong PKL-dependent expression, but only after germination. This observation is in striking contrast to previously characterized PKL-dependent genes such as LEC1 and LEC2 that exhibit strong PKL-dependent expression during germination but do not exhibit PKL-dependent expression in the mature shoot (CITATION). The discovery that two type I MADS box genes exhibited PKL-dependent expression after germination prompted us to examine whether other type I MADS box genes exhibited similar regulation. The expression of 45 type I MADS box genes (CITATION; CITATION) was examined by qRT-PCR at the same developmental stages assayed for PHE1 and PHE2. We identified four other predicted type I MADS box genes for which the level of the corresponding transcript was altered at least 5-fold in the absence of PKL (Table 2). However, unlike PHE1 and PHE2, none of these genes exhibited PKL-dependent expression at more than one of the developmental stages that were assayed. At5gt26630 and At3g66656 transcripts were elevated 5- and 7-fold respectively in germinating seedlings, whereas At2g28700 transcripts were up 17-fold in 4-day-old seedlings. In contrast, At1g18750 was 12-fold decreased at 50% germination, suggesting that PKL is a positive regulator of this locus. Our analysis failed to reveal a large effect of the pkl mutation on expression of the other type I MADS box genes (Table S1), indicating that PKL does not play a general regulatory role for this class of transcription factor. The identification of PHE1 and PHE2 as genes that exhibit robust PKL-dependent expression in the shoot provided us with the opportunity to determine if PKL could also act after germination to regulate gene expression. We examined PHE1 transcript levels in pkl-1/PKL:GR plants grown continuously in the presence or absence of Dex. These experiments demonstrated that application of Dex to pkl-1/PKL:GR plants results in 3-fold repression of PHE1 transcript levels relative to growth in the absence of Dex (Figure 6a). Thus the PKL:GR fusion is capable of partial rescue of PHE1 expression in pkl plants, an observation that is consistent with the observation that application of Dex to pkl-1/PKL:GR plants can completely rescue some pkl-associated traits (Figures 4a and 5b) but only partially rescue others (Figure 5a). Similarly, application of Dex to pkl-1/PKL:GR plants results in less than 2-fold repression of PHE2 transcript levels (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] We were able to use the more robust Dex-dependent PHE1 expression to examine when PKL is capable of acting to regulate gene expression in the shoot. pkl-1/PKL:GR seedlings were grown in the absence or presence of Dex for 10 days and then transferred to or from Dex-containing media. Transcript levels of PHE1 were followed by qRT-PCR at 0.5, 1 and 3 days after transferring the seedlings, as well as in plants that were subjected to a mock transfer (Dex to Dex, or no Dex to no Dex). We found that after 10 days of growth in the absence of Dex, treatment of pkl-1/PKL:GR seedlings with Dex resulted in repression of PHE1 transcript levels within 1 day (Figure 6b). Conversely, we found that transfer of 10-day-old pkl-1/PKL:GR seedlings from Dex-containing to Dex-free media resulted in elevation of transcript levels within 1 day (Figure 6c). Thus in contrast to what is observed during germination, PKL appears to be continuously needed to repress expression of at least one gene in the shoot after germination. In both cases, 3 days of the new treatment was largely sufficient to switch PHE1 transcript levels to reflect the new regime. Similar results were observed if pkl-1/PKL:GR plants are transferred after 21 days of growth (data not shown). Thus these data reveal that PKL continuously acts after germination to regulate expression of some genes in the shoot. Our success at examining the effect of activation of PKL:GR on PHE1 expression in the shoot prompted us to examine the effect of activation of PKL:GR on gene expression during germination. Although the previous analysis indicated that PKL acted during germination to repress expression of embryonic traits in the primary root (Figure 3b), it did not address when PKL was capable of acting to repress gene expression. We have previously observed that transcript levels of LEC1 are elevated during germination of pkl seeds (CITATION; CITATION). To test the hypothesis that PKL acted early during germination to repress expression of LEC1, we used qRT-PCR to examine LEC1 transcript levels in germinating pkl and pkl-1/PKL:GR seedlings that were treated with Dex either during early or late germination. We also examined PHE1 transcript levels as a control for developmental specificity. We found that imbibition of pkl-1/PKL:GR seedlings in the presence of Dex until they reached 50% germination resulted in a >5-fold decrease in transcript levels of LEC1 relative to pkl-1/PKL:GR seedlings imbibed in the absence of Dex (Figure 7a). In contrast, if pkl-1/PKL:GR seeds were imbibed in the absence of Dex until they had reached 75% germination and then treated with Dex for 48 h, we observed a < 2-fold decrease in transcript levels of LEC1 relative to pkl-1/PKL:GR seedlings that were not exposed to Dex (Figure 7b). Thus these data reveal that the ability of PKL:GR to repress expression of LEC1 (Figure 7) and to repress expression of the pickle root phenotype (Figure 3b) is largely restricted to early germination, consistent with the hypothesis that expression of the pickle root trait is a reflection of the ability of PKL to act on LEC1 and related genes during early germination. [[FIGURE]] PHE1 transcript levels exhibited a pattern of expression that was reciprocal to that of LEC1. PHE1 transcript levels were relatively unchanged when pkl-1/PKL:GR seedlings were imbibed in Dex until 50% germination (Figure 7a), whereas they were repressed nearly 3-fold when pkl-1/PKL:GR seedlings were treated with Dex after they had reached 75% germination (Figure 7b). These data are consistent with our observation that PKL is necessary after germination for repression of PHE1 expression and further demonstrate that PKL:GR is capable of acting to regulate gene expression in response to Dex after 75% germination. As expected, LEC1 and PHE1 transcript levels were not responsive to either regimen of Dex application in pkl seedlings.
!~MM~! Wild type, pkl-1 (CITATION) and pkl-7 (CITATION) are in the Col background. Plants were grown on synthetic media or in pots as previously described, with exceptions noted below (CITATION). Plants were transformed by using an in planta transformation protocol with the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (CITATION). For the analysis of PKL protein expression during development (Figure 1b), the seedling tissue and the 15-day-old rosette and root tissue was collected from plants grown on synthetic media. The influorescences and siliques were collected from plants that were grown for 3 weeks on plates and then transferred to pots and grown for another 5 weeks. Siliques were numbered sequentially where the first open flower corresponded to silique no. 1, the second open flower to silique no. 2, etc. Siliques nos 10 and 20 contained embryos at the globular stage and the mature embryo stage, respectively (CITATION). For the analysis of Dex-dependent shoot traits, plants were imbibed for 2 days with an aqueous solution containing 10−5 m Dex or with a mock solution containing 0.2% methanol. Seedlings were rinsed with water five times, sown on soil and grown in a Percival growth chamber with continuous illumination (150–180 μE m−2 sec−1) at 22°C. Plants were sprayed every other day with an aqueous solution containing 10−5 m Dex and 0.05% (weight in volume, w/v) Tween 20 or with a mock solution containing 0.02% methanol and 0.05% (w/v) Tween 20. The rosette size of pkl-1, PKL:GR and wild type (WT) were compared after 3 weeks. The length of siliques was measured when seed maturation was complete. Eight to ten siliques were measured for each treatment. Plants for Dex-dependent flowering time analysis were grown in a Percival growth chamber with 16 h of illumination. Flowering was scored as the number of days until the first flower opened. For analysis of the effect of application of Dex during seed formation on subsequent penetrance of the pickle root phenotype, seeds were plated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) media supplemented with 10−8 m uniconazole or 10−8 m uniconazole and 10−5 m Dex, and the pickle root trait was determined for 144 seedlings 10 days after imbibition. For analysis of PHE1 expression in pkl-1/PKL:GR transgenic lines (Figure 6), seeds were plated on MS media for 10 days, then transferred to MS media supplemented with 10−5 m Dex, and harvested 0.5, 1 or 3 days after transfer. A complete description of the construction of all recombinant DNA molecules generated for this study can be found in Supplementary Material. Polyclonal anti-PKL antiserum was obtained from rabbits immunized with the N-terminal (1–291aa) or C-terminal (740–1385aa) region of PKL. Escherichia coli Tuner DE3 cells (Novagen, Madison, WI, USA) were used for the production of recombinant antigen. Growth of the expression host strain and induction of protein expression were performed according to the manufacturer's recommendations. Whole cell lysates from E. coli expressing recombinant PKL peptide were separated on 10% SDS-PAGE (CITATION). Gels were stained with copper chloride (CITATION) and the band corresponding to the PKL N- or C-terminal fragment was excised and equilibrated in 40 volumes of 0.5 m EDTA (pH 8.0) for 30 min, followed by three washes (30 min each) in 40 volumes of Tris-Glycine gel running buffer (25 mm Tris, 250 mm glycine, 0.1% SDS) to remove the copper stain. The recombinant PKL peptides were electroeluted from the gel slices using an S&S Elutrap apparatus (Schleicher and Schuell, Inc., Keene, NH, USA) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Eluted peptides were concentrated using Microcon concentrators (Millipore Corp., Billerica, MA, USA), quantified and adjusted to a final concentration of approximately 1 mg ml−1. The partially purified PKL fragments (∼5 mg) were used for the production of polyclonal antibodies (Alpha Diagnostic, San Antonio, TX, USA). For analysis of PKL protein in E. coli, crude whole cell extracts were prepared from cells that were resuspended in 0.5 ml phosphate buffered saline (PBS) with 1 μg ml−1 leupeptin, 1 μg ml−1 pepstatin A, 1 μg ml−1 aprotinin and 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonylfluoride (PMSF). Equal volumes of hot (80°C) 1x PBS and hot 2x sample (2% SDS, 80 mm Tris pH 6.8, 0.6% bromophenol blue, 15% glycerol and 0.1 m DTT) were added, and samples were heated at 80°C for 15 min. For analysis of PKL protein in S. cerevisiae, crude whole cell extracts were prepared from cells grown to saturation in minimal media that were lysed with an equal volume of 2x sample buffer (0.2 m Tris pH 6.8, 20%β-mercaptoethanol, 4% SDS, 10% glycerol, 0.002% bromophenol blue) supplemented with 1 μg ml−1 leupeptin, 1 μg ml−1 pepstatin A, 1 μg ml−1 aprotinin and 1 mm PMSF. Cells were beaten twice for 30 sec with 0.5-mm zirconia beads (Biospec Products, Inc., Bartlesville, OK, USA), boiled for 3 min and supernatants were transferred to a new tube. Crude whole cell protein extracts of Arabidopsis thaliana were prepared as previously described (CITATION). Total proteins were quantified with Bio-Rad RCDC protein assay (Bio-Rad Lab., Hercules, CA, USA) as per the manufacturer's recommendation. Equal amounts of total proteins were separated on 6% SDS-polyacrylamide gels and transferred to immobilon-P membrane (Millipore Corp.). Membranes were blocked with 1× bovine serum albumin (BSA; 0.01 m Tris pH 8, 0.1 m NaCl, 0.1% Tween 20, 1% BSA), and probed with anti-PKL N or anti-PKL C terminal antiserum in 1:5000× dilution. Anti-PEP carboxylase antibody at a dilution of 1:5000 (Rockland, Gilbertsville, PA, USA) was used as a control. Secondary antibody [goat anti-rabbit IgG-horseradish peroxidase (IgG-HRP) conjugate; Pierce Biotech. Inc., Rockford, IL, USA] was used at a dilution of 1:10 000. Arabidopsis seed, seedlings and leaves were mounted in water and observed with a fluorescence microscope (model DMR HC, Leica Inc., Deerfield, IL, USA). eGFP was visualized with an EN GFP filter from Chroma Technology (Rockingham, VT, USA; part no. 41017). Nuclei were visualized with DAPI as described by Copenhaver (http://www.biology.wustl.edu/pikaard/protocols/chromcount.html). Seedlings were grown on synthetic media supplemented with 10−7 m uniconazole-P and with or without 10−5 m Dex (Sigma, St Louis, MO, USA) dissolved in methanol. Seedlings were shifted from plates containing Dex to plates that did not contain Dex or vice versa using fine point tweezers in a sterile hood. At each time point, 144 seeds of pkl-1/PKL:GR (transgenic line GR-3), 72 seeds of pkl-1 and 72 wild-type seeds were transplanted from Dex to no Dex plates or vice versa. Seedlings were scored for the pickle root trait at 15 days post seed imbibition. The experiment was carried out at 22°C in continuous light (60 μE m−2 sec−1). Three biological replicates of this analysis were performed. Total RNA was isolated as described previously by CITATION. Quantitative PCR was performed on an ABI Prism 7000 Sequence Detection System (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA), as previously described (CITATION). 18S ribosomal RNA was used as a normalization control for the relative quantification of transcript levels. Data presented are derived from three unpaired technical replicates as recommended by Applied Biosystems. All qRT-PCR experiments were repeated with a biological replicate with similar results (data not shown). All oligonucleotide primer sequences and primer concentrations used, the critical threshold values for the figures presented, and the complete analysis of type I MADS box genes can be found in the Supplementary Material.
