!~ABS~! An Arabidopsis thaliana mutant, crr7 (chlororespiratory reduction), was isolated using chlorophyll fluorescence imaging to detect reduced activity in NAD(P)H dehydrogenase (NDH). The chloroplast NDH complex is considered to have originated from cyanobacteria in which the NDH complex is involved in respiration, photosystem I (PSI) cyclic electron transport and CO2 uptake. In higher plants the NDH complex functions in PSI cyclic electron transport within the chloroplast. Despite exhaustive biochemical approaches, the entire subunit composition of the NDH complex is unclear in both cyanobacteria and chloroplasts. In crr7 accumulation of the NDH complex was specifically impaired. In vivo analysis of electron transport supported the specific loss of the NDH complex in crr7. CRR7 (At5g39210) encodes a protein of 156 amino acids, including a putative plastid target signal, and does not contain any known motifs. In contrast to CRR2 and CRR4, involved in the expression of chloroplast ndh genes, CRR7 is conserved in cyanobacterial genomes. Although CRR7 did not contain any transmembrane domains, it localized to the membrane fraction of the chloroplast. CRR7 was unstable in the crr2-2 mutant background, in which the expression of ndhB was impaired. These results strongly suggest that CRR7 is a novel subunit of the chloroplast NDH complex.
!~RES~! The chloroplast NDH complex catalyses electron donation to plastoquinone (PQ) from the stromal electron pool (Figure 1a). The activity of NDH can be monitored as a transient increase in chlorophyll fluorescence after turning off actinic light (AL) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The increase in fluorescence is due to reduction of PQ by the stromal electron pool that accumulates during AL illumination. We focused on this change in the fluorescence to identify Arabidopsis mutants with altered NDH activity (CITATION). Figure 1(b) shows imaging of NDH activity based on chlorophyll fluorescence analysis. In the wild type, the fluorescence level was higher after AL illumination (Figure 1c, image B) than before (Figure 1c, image A), due to the NDH-dependent reduction of PQ. Therefore, the fluorescence image remained after the subtraction of fluorescence images [(image B) – (image A)]. In contrast, the fluorescence image disappeared after the calculation in crr7-1 and crr7-3 due to the lack of NDH activity (Figure 1b). While crr7-1 is an original allele isolated by the screening, crr7-3 is a T-DNA insertion allele (see below). [[FIGURE]] Figure 1(c) shows a typical trace of the chlorophyll fluorescence level in the wild type, when analysed using pulse amplitude modulated (PAM) fluorometry. In crr7 alleles, there was a transient increase in fluorescence level after the AL illumination was suppressed, indicating that NDH activity was impaired in crr7. Except for the change in fluorescence due to the lack of NDH activity, crr7 mutants did not show any visible phenotype under the culture conditions used in this study (Figure 1b). To characterize the photosynthetic electron transport in crr7, the dependence on light intensity of two chlorophyll fluorescence parameters was compared between the wild type and crr7 alleles (Figure 2). A chlorophyll fluorescence parameter of electron transport rate (ETR) represents the relative rate of electron transport through photosystem II (PSII) during steady-state photosynthesis, while non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) is roughly proportional to the level of thermal dissipation. Thermal dissipation is a regulatory process of light harvesting used to safely dissipate the excessive absorbed light energy as heat from PSII antennae. Thermal dissipation is induced upon the acidification of the thylakoid lumen, when the light energy absorbed by PSII antennae exceeds the capacity that can be utilized (CITATION). As in other crr mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), ETR was unaffected in crr7 (Figure 2a). On the other hand, NPQ was slightly higher in both alleles of crr7 than in the wild type (Figure 2b). This mild phenotype was suppressed in crr7-1 transformed with the wild-type genomic CRR7. Although we could not conclude that this minor difference was significant, a similar phenotype was reported in Arabidopsis knockout lines of ndhO, ndhM and ndhN (CITATION). Consistent with the normal growth rate (Figure 1b), the fluorescence analyses indicated that the activity of the NDH complex was specifically impaired in crr7. [[FIGURE]] To assess the possibility that the level of the NDH complex is affected in crr7, a protein blot was probed with an antibody raised against NdhH (Figure 3). The NdhH subunit is unstable without other NDH subunits (CITATION; CITATION) and can be used to monitor the accumulation of the NDH complex. In both crr7 alleles, the amount of NdhH was reduced to an undetectable level (at least less than 12.5% of the wild type). Consistent with the results of chlorophyll fluorescence analysis (Figure 2), the level of cytochrome f, a subunit of the cytochrome b6f complex, was unaffected in crr7. We conclude that the protein level of the NDH complex was specifically reduced in crr7. [[FIGURE]] To identify the gene affected in crr7, 166 F2 plants from the crr7-1 and Landsberg erecta cross were analysed, resulting in the identification of a 290 kb region surrounded by two molecular markers, Mi323 and MIJ24, which spans five bacterial artificial chromosomes (K15E6, MXF12, K3K3, MUL8 and MIJ24) containing the middle of chromosome 5. Since the crr7 phenotype is specific to the chloroplast NDH complex, genes encoding putative plastid targeting signals were sequenced. Finally, a single nucleotide substitution was discovered in At5g39210. Direct sequencing of RT-PCR products showed that At5g39210 consists of three exons and two introns (Figure 4a). In crr7-1, a single nucleotide substitution generated a stop codon in the middle of the third exon, resulting in the truncation of 51 amino acids from the C-terminal region of the At5g39210 product. To confirm that the crr7-1 phenotype is due to the mutation in At5g39210, we analysed the phenotype of a T-DNA insertion allele, crr7-3 (SALK_073974), from a collection developed at the SALK Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory (CITATION). As described above, crr7-3 exhibited an identical phenotype to crr7-1 in chlorophyll fluorescence analyses (Figures 1 and 2) and in an assay for the accumulation of the NDH complex (Figure 3). [[FIGURE]] To confirm further that the crr7 phenotype was due to the defects in At5g39210, the wild-type genomic DNA covering the sequence encoded by At5g39210 was introduced into crr7-1. This complementation fully restored the transient increase of chlorophyll fluorescence after AL illumination (Figure 1b,c). The NdhH level was also complemented by the transformation (Figure 3). We conclude that the crr7 defect was due to mutations in At5g39210 (CRR7). The CRR7 protein consists of 156 amino acids. The first 68 amino acids are predicted to be a target signal to the plastid by TargetP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/). Genes similar to the Arabidopsis CRR7 were found in rice and cyanobacteria (Figure 4b), but were absent in non-phototrophs. Chlamydomonas reinhardtii that lacks the chloroplast ndh genes (CITATION) does not contain a CRR7 homologue. The CRR7 protein does not contain any known motif that suggests the protein function. To characterize the CRR7 protein, we constructed a chimeric gene so that the C-terminal end of CRR7 was fused with the T7 epitope (CRR7–T7), and introduced it into crr7-1. The chimeric gene complemented the transient increase in the chlorophyll fluorescence after AL illumination and the stability of the NDH complex, which was evaluated by the NdhH level (data not shown), indicating that the fusion protein is functional. Since CRR7 encodes a putative plastid targeting signal, chloroplasts were isolated from leaves of crr7-1 plants transformed with CRR7-T7. The chloroplasts were further fractionated into a stromal fraction and a fraction containing thylakoid membranes and chloroplast envelopes. The antibody against the T7 tag detected a protein in the membrane fraction isolated from the transgenic lines, but the protein was absent in both fractions isolated from the wild type (Figure 5a). The size of the protein was consistent with that of the predicted mature CRR7 without the signal peptide (10.2 kDa) plus that of T7 tag (1.3 kDa). Although CRR7 does not contain any transmembrane domain (http://sosui.proteome.bio.tuat.ac.jp/sosuimenu0.html), it localized to the thylakoid membranes or the chloroplast envelopes, possibly via interaction with other membrane proteins. [[FIGURE]] In crr7 the level of NdhH was drastically reduced (Figure 3), indicating that CRR7 is essential for the accumulation of the NDH complex. CRR7 homologues are present in cyanobacterial genomes (Figure 4b), therefore it is likely that CRR7 is a novel subunit of the NDH complex rather than the factor required for the expression of chloroplast ndh genes. To assess this possibility, we analysed the stability of CRR7 within a mutant background lacking the NDH complex. In an Arabidopsis mutant, crr2, the accumulation of the NDH complex is specifically impaired due to a defect in RNA cleavage between rps7 and ndhB, which is essential for the ndhB translation (CITATION). To monitor the stability of CRR7, we introduced CRR7–T7 into the double mutant background of crr2-2 crr7-1. In three independent transgenic lines (numbers 1–3), we could not detect the accumulation of CRR7–T7 (Figure 5b), suggesting that CRR7 is unstable when expressed in the mutant background of crr2. The absence of CRR7–T7 in the transgenic lines may also be due to a lack of transgene expression. To eliminate this possibility, three lines were crossed with a single mutant of crr7-1. Resulting F1 plants were heterozygous for crr2-1, and thus the activity of ndhB translation was restored. The F1 seedlings carrying the transgene were selected on MS medium (CITATION) containing kanamycin and transferred to soil. In the F1 plants, the transient increase in chlorophyll fluorescence after the AL illumination was restored, suggesting accumulation of CRR7–T7 (data not shown). To confirm this, thylakoid proteins were isolated from seedlings of three F1 lines. Protein blot analysis detected the restoration of the CRR7–T7 in the F1 lines. We conclude that the NDH complex is essential for stabilizing CRR7. Taken together with the results of NdhH stability within the crr7 mutant background, it is strongly suggested that CRR7 is a subunit of the NDH complex.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana wild type (ecotype Columbia gl1) and crr7 were grown in soil under growth chamber conditions (50 μmol photons m−2 sec−1) for 3–4 weeks. crr7-1 was mutagenized by ethyl methanesulphonate (CITATION), crr7-3 was mutagenized by a T-DNA insertion (CITATION). Chlorophyll fluorescence was measured with a MINI-PAM (pulse-amplitude modulation) portable chlorophyll fluorometer (Walz, Effeltrich, Germany). Minimum fluorescence at open photosystem II (PSII) centres in the dark-adapted state (Fo) was excited by a weak measuring light (650 nm) at a light intensity of 0.05–0.1 μmol photons m−2 sec−1. A saturating pulse of white light (800 ms, 3000 μmol photons m−2 sec−1) was applied to determine the maximum fluorescence at closed PSII centres in the dark-adapted state (FM) and during actinic light (AL) illumination (FM′). The steady-state fluorescence level (FS) was recorded during AL illumination (15–1000 μmol photons m−2 sec−1). Non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) was calculated as (FM − FM′)/FM′. The quantum yield of PSII (ΦPSII) was calculated as (FM′ − FS)/FM′ (CITATION). The relative rate of electron transport through PSII (ETR) was calculated as ΦPSII × light intensity (μmol photons m−2 sec−1). The transient increase in chlorophyll fluorescence after turning off AL was monitored as described previously (CITATION). Images of NDH activity were acquired as described (CITATION). The crr7-1 mutation was mapped with molecular markers based on a cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) (CITATION). Primer sequences and the restriction enzymes used were: 5′-CATTTGCCATTGCTTCGGACC-3′ and 5′-GGTTTGGTTTGATTGTCCCTTC-3′, SspI for Mi323 and 5′-CACTACCTTGTTTGTTCAGTTGC-3′ and 5′-GGGGATACTCCTTCATTGTC-3′, MboI for MIJ24. Genomic DNA was isolated from the wild type and F2 plants derived from the cross between crr7-1 and the wild type (Landsberg erecta). The genomic sequence of At5g39210 from crr7-1 was amplified by PCR using ExTaq DNA polymerase (Takara, Kyoto, Japan). The resulting PCR product was directly sequenced using a dye terminator cycle sequencing kit and an ABI PRISM 3100 sequencer (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA). For complementation of the crr7-1 mutation, the 2.1 kb wild-type genomic sequence surrounded by 5′-TAAAGCTCACGTGGACGCCT-3′ and 5′-AATAATCGTCAAAGAGAATT-3′ was cloned in pBIN19, introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens MP90 and then to crr7-1. For the chimeric gene, a T7 epitope (CITATION) was fused with the C-terminal end of CRR7 via an arginine–glycine linker. The gene was inserted between the CRR7 promoter and the terminator of the nopaline synthase gene. The fusion gene was ligated into pBIN19 and then introduced into crr7-1. Chloroplast isolation and protein blot analysis were performed as described previously (CITATION). The fusion protein was separated by 15% SDS-PAGE using the conventional Tris-glycine buffer system (Figure 5a) and also using the Tris-tricine buffer system (CITATION) (Figure 5b). The CRR7–T7 fusion protein was detected using monoclonal antibody raised against T7 epitope (Novagen, Madison, WI, USA). NdhH and cytochrome f were detected as described previously (CITATION).
