!~ABS~! Since copper (Cu) is essential in key physiological oxidation reactions, organisms have developed strategies for handling Cu while avoiding its potentially toxic effects. Among the tools that have evolved to cope with Cu is a network of Cu homeostasis factors such as Cu-transporting P-type ATPases that play a key role in transmembrane Cu transport. In this work we present the functional characterization of an Arabidopsis Cu-transporting P-type ATPase, denoted heavy metal ATPase 5 (HMA5), and its interaction with Arabidopsis metallochaperones. HMA5 is primarily expressed in roots, and is strongly and specifically induced by Cu in whole plants. We have identified and characterized plants carrying two independent T-DNA insertion alleles, hma5-1 and hma5-2. Both mutants are hypersensitive to Cu but not to other metals such as iron, zinc or cadmium. Interestingly, root tips from Cu-treated hma5 mutants exhibit a wave-like phenotype at early stages and later on main root growth completely arrests whereas lateral roots emerge near the crown. Accordingly, these lines accumulate Cu in roots to a greater extent than wild-type plants under Cu excess. Finally, yeast two-hybrid experiments demonstrate that the metal-binding domains of HMA5 interact with Arabidopsis ATX1-like Cu chaperones, and suggest a regulatory role for the plant-specific domain of the CCH Cu chaperone. Based on these findings, we propose a role for HMA5 in Cu compartmentalization and detoxification.
!~RES~! Copper-transporting P-type ATPases have been described in organisms ranging from bacteria to humans (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The Arabidopsis genome contains a putative Cu-transporting P-type ATPase HMA5 (MIPS code At1g63440) with unknown function. The entire coding region sequence of the HMA5 cDNA obtained from a reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR product confirmed the exon assignment in the MIPS database (http://mips.gsf.de/proj/thal/db/) and indicates that it encodes a protein of 995 amino acids. The HMA5 protein possesses the main signatures of P-type ATPases, including an aspartyl kinase domain (DKTGT), an ATP-binding domain (GDG) and a phosphatase domain (TGEA). HMA5 contains all of the structural features present in heavy metal-transporting P-type ATPases, including eight putative transmembrane domains (TMD I–VIII), two GMTCxxC amino-terminal metal-binding domains (MBDs), the ion transduction motif CPC in TMD VI, and the HP motif (Figure 1a,b). Furthermore, HMA5 protein belongs to the subgroup IB-1 of metal-transporting P-type ATPases (CITATION) and conserves the specific transmembrane metal-binding residues that have been described as probably being implicated in Cu+ coordination during transport in CopA (CITATION). In HMA5 these residues correspond to Cys617 and Cys619 (TMVI), Tyr930 and Asn931 (TMVII) and Met959 and Ser963 (TMVIII) (Figure 1b). The predicted topology for HMA5 locates both amino-terminal and carboxy-terminal domains, as well as the main loop between TMD VI and TMD VII, toward the cytosolic space (for a detailed description of these motifs see reviews from CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We studied HMA5 expression in Arabidopsis plants by RT-PCR because extremely low levels of HMA5 mRNA are detected under standard conditions of growth on soil (data not shown). HMA5 is mostly expressed in roots and flowers (Figure 2a), although a very low level of expression was also found in above-ground plant tissues (Figure 2b). Interestingly, the addition of CuSO4 at different concentrations to the growth medium resulted in robust but dose-independent induction of HMA5, indicating that maximum expression levels are achieved at Cu concentrations as low as 10 μm (Figure 2c). No other metal assayed at 30 μm, including iron, cadmium, silver and zinc, increased levels of HMA5 expression, indicating that Cu specifically regulates levels of HMA5 mRNA in Arabidopsis (Figure 2d). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the function of HMA5 in Arabidopsis, we have isolated two independent T-DNA insertion alleles (hma5-1 and hma5-2) in the Columbia (Col-0) ecotype by using a reverse-genetic screen (CITATION). A library encompassing genomic DNA from 60000 randomly mutagenized T-DNA lines (the SALK Collection) was screened by PCR techniques (see Experimental procedures). Co-segregation of hma5-1 and hma5-2 with the T-DNA was established by PCR and homozygous plants were obtained. Sequence analysis revealed that the T-DNA is inserted in the second exon of the HMA5 gene in hma5-1 and in the first intron in the hma5-2 mutant, 1419 and 363 bp, respectively, downstream of the translation start codon (Figure 3a). Levels of HMA5 mRNA were quantified in parental and hma5 mutant lines by RT-PCR. The specific (344 bp) product corresponding to HMA5 was only detected in wild-type plants, whereas no amplification product was obtained in hma5-1 and hma5-2 mutants (Figure 3b). These results demonstrate that hma5-1 and hma5-2 mutants are defective in HMA5 expression. [[FIGURE]] The growth, development and maturation characteristics of the hma5 mutants are indistinguishable from the wild type on regular soil. Given that HMA5 expression is specifically upregulated by Cu treatment (Figure 2), we assayed the growth of hma5 homozygous mutants on Cu-containing MS media. As shown in Figure 4(a), after 8 days in 30 μm Cu, only yellow cotyledons are expanded in hma5 mutant seedlings and root growth is completely arrested. Increasing the Cu concentration to 50 μm Cu almost completely inhibits germination, and affects both aerial parts and roots (Figure 4a). In addition, during the early stages of development hma5 mutant plants are smaller than parental plants and chlorotic (data not shown). To quantify this growth effect, the fresh weight of 8-day-old seedlings was measured. As shown in Figure 4(b), seedling development is retarded in mutants as Cu added to MS increases from 0 to 50 μm. In order to further assess the specificity of the Cu sensitivity of the hma5 mutants, different salts were added to the MS growth medium. Only Cu, and partially Ag, which is isoelectric to Cu+, provokes a decrease in fresh weight, whereas other metals such as Fe, Zn and Cd do not have any detectable effect (Figure 4c), indicating a Cu-specific response for this phenotype. Taken together these results demonstrate that Arabidopsis plants defective in HMA5 are highly sensitive to Cu. [[FIGURE]] Since Cu hypersensitivity has a more profound effect on the roots (Figure 4a), we further investigated the effect of Cu on root development in hma5 plants. As shown in Figure 5(a) (upper panel), the root length in 8-day-old seedlings is dramatically decreased in both hma5 mutant alleles treated with 20 μm Cu, while no defect is observed in MS plates. The effects of Cu on primary root growth become evident from the early developmental phases. Instead of the straight root growth on the agar surface under copper excess observed for the wild type within the first days of seed germination, the hma5 mutants exhibit a sinusoidal growth pattern, known as root waving (CITATION). In this case, the wave-like phenotype is observed at basal parts of the root elongation zone and it is characterized by a slight curvature and a high frequency of root waving (Figure 5a, intermediate panel). In 8-day-old seedlings lateral roots emerge near the seedling crowns and the main root tip is enlarged and its growth completely arrested (Figure 5a, lower panel). The effect of Cu on root length has been quantified at different Cu concentrations (Figure 5b). The differences between the hma5 mutant and wild-type plants are evident at Cu concentrations as low as 10 μm, while at 20 μm root growth is completely arrested 3 days after germination at about 3 mm in length. [[FIGURE]] To further characterize the response of hma5 mutants to Cu we determined the levels of metal accumulated in shoots and roots of plants grown in the presence of 10 μm Cu. No significant difference (statistical significance <90%) in Cu content was observed in shoots of wild-type and hma5 mutant plants grown on MS plates (Figure 6), as expected for the lack of expression of HMA5 under these conditions. When wild-type and hma5 plants were grown in medium supplemented with 10 μm Cu, metal accumulation was increased in both roots and shoots (Figure 6). Interestingly, Cu accumulates to a greater extent in hma5 roots (statistical significance >98%) while no difference is observed in shoots (statistical significance <90%) (Figure 6). The levels of other metals, such as iron, remained unaltered both in parental and mutant lines (data not shown). Taken together, these results strongly suggest that HMA5 expression is required for proper Cu detoxification in Arabidopsis roots under conditions of Cu excess. The phenotypes of hma5 mutants at supra-optimal Cu concentrations may be a consequence of increased accumulation of Cu in roots. [[FIGURE]] Since our data strongly support a role for HMA5 in Cu detoxification, presumably by extruding Cu from the cytosol, it is conceivable that HMA5 recruits excess Cu via specific chaperones. Biochemical and genetic studies in bacteria, yeast and mammals have established that delivery of Cu to regulatory amino-terminal metal-binding domains of P1B-type ATPases occurs through specific interactions between the metal-binding domains of the ATPase and a cytosolic ATX1-like Cu chaperone (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) whereas it is not clear how the delivery of metal to the transmembrane transport sites occurs. Arabidopsis expresses at least two ATX1-like metallochaperones: CCH, which contains a plant-specific carboxy-terminal domain (Mira et al., 2001b, 2004), and ATX1 (MIPS code At1g66240), which lacks this extension and fully complements an atx1ΔS. cerevisiae mutant strain (S. Puig, N. Andrés-Colás, D. J. Thiele and L. Peñarrubia, unpublished data). A protein sequence alignment between the two metallochaperones and the RAN1 and HMA5 metal-binding domains shows the conservation of the MXCXXC signature (Figure 7a). We ascertained whether HMA5 interacts in vivo with the CCH and ATX1 Arabidopsis metallochaperones by using the yeast two-hybrid system. Arabidopsis ATX1, CCH and CCH lacking the carboxy-terminal plant-specific domain (CCHΔ) were fused in-frame to the GAL4 activation domain (GAD), and the amino-terminal MBDs of HMA5 were fused to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain (GBD). As shown in Figure 7(b), cells co-expressing the HMA5 MBDs and CCH did not grow in media without histidine, which is indicative of a lack of interaction in this assay. Interestingly, cells co-expressing HMA5 MBDs with CCHΔ or ATX1 grow in the absence of histidine, indicating an HMA5–chaperone interaction. Addition of the His3 inhibitor 3-aminotriazol (AT) abrogated growth of cells expressing CCHΔ but not ATX1, suggesting that the interaction of ATX1 with HMA5 MBDs is stronger than that of CCHΔ. Expression of all the fusion proteins was confirmed by immunoblotting against GAD and GBD domains (Figure 7c). Taken together these results demonstrate that HMA5 interacts with Arabidopsis ATX1-like Cu chaperones in vivo and suggest a potential regulatory role for the carboxy-terminal-specific domain present in plants. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis, ecotype Columbia (Col-0), were grown in pots and covered with a clear plastic dome. The covered pots were incubated at 4°C for 2 days to synchronize germination, and then moved to 23°C with a 16-h photoperiod (65 μmol m−2 of cool-white fluorescent light). Plants were watered regularly with standard commercial greenhouse nutritive solution. To study the sensitivity of seedlings to Cu availability, seeds were surface sterilized, induced to synchronize germination and incubated in either standard MS medium plates (CITATION) or MS supplemented with the indicated concentrations of metal ions. Growth conditions in the cabinets were the same as indicated above for the pots. Plates were photographed 8 days after germination and seedling fresh weight and root length were determined from five seedlings with the standard deviation (SD) from three measurements. To quantify root length, plants were grown vertically in MS plates and nylon mesh (Nitex 03-100/47, Sefar America, Bricarcliff Manor, NY, USA) was used for collecting roots in the plates as described by CITATION. Protein sequences, their classification, and the main characteristics of the P1B ATPase family members were obtained from the website http://www.Patbase.kvl.dk. The alignment and the identity values were obtained with the program dnaman (Lynnon Biosoft, Vandrevil, QC, Canada). The topological model of the HMA5 and RAN1 proteins was developed according to the model shown in CITATION. The theoretical analysis of the promoter sequence was performed using the website http://www.dna.affrc.go.jp/PLACE/signalscan.html. Total RNA was isolated from Arabidopsis tissues using a Total quick RNA kit (Talent srl, Trieste, Italy). The RNA was quantified by UV spectrophotometry and its integrity was visually assessed on agarose gels. Total RNA (1.5 μg) isolated from the indicated tissues was firstly reverse transcribed to cDNA by using SuperScript II reverse transcriptase (Gibco BRL, Carlsbad, CA, USA) and HMA5 (reverse, 5′-CCTCCAATAGTCTATCATAGC) and 18S primers (reverse, 5′-CTGGATC CAATTACCAGACTCAA). Complementary DNA was used as the template to amplify HMA5 and 18S in independent PCR reactions using as primers HMA5 (forward, 5′-GGCTATCAAAGCGTCTCCCTGG; reverse, same as before) and 18S (forward, 5′-TGGGATATCCTGCCAGTAGTCAT; reverse, same as before). The PCR products were visualized in 2% agarose gel. The primers used, located at the first and second exons, allow us to detect two bands of 443 and 344 bp, depending on whether genomic DNA or cDNA, respectively, was transcribed (results not shown). This difference accounts for the size of the first HMA5 processed intron (99 bp). It is noteworthy that in our hands HMA5 was found to be recalcitrant to cloning, either in high or in low copy number vectors, whereas we had no problems in cloning RAN1 in parallel. This prevented us from doing obvious experiments in this study such as yeast complementation or subcellular localization. A collection comprising genomic DNAs from 80000 Arabidopsis lines (ecotype Columbia) (J. M. Alonso, W. Crosby and J. R. Ecker; SALK collection) (http://www.Arabidopsis.org/abrc/alonso.html), containing independent random insertions of a transposable element (T-DNA), was screened by a PCR-derived method (CITATION), to isolate the hma5-1 (line 06448) and hma5-2 (line 15196) alleles. Primers specific for the left border of the T-DNA (5′-GGCAATCAGCTGTTGCCCGTCTCACTGGTG) were used in combination with gene-specific primers flanking the HMA5 open reading frame (ORF) (forward 5′-CAAGATTCGCGCACAAGACGATCGATTAC and reverse 5′-CTCGCTCCACCTGAAATCTCCCGAATCTCC) to identify mutant lines. Insertion was verified by DNA gel blot hybridization and sequencing. Copper content was determined in 8-day-old wild-type and hma5 mutant seedlings previously washed once with 20 μm EDTA and three times with MilliQ H2O, dried and frozen in liquid N2, ground in a mortar and lyophilized. Around 20 mg of lyophilized tissue was digested in 0.5 ml HNO3 65% (Suprapur; Merck, Whitehouse Station, NJ, USA) for 10 h at 80°C. After adding 2 ml of MilliQ H2O, the Cu content of each sample was determined by graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry (Zeeman; 4100ZL PerkinElmer, Wellesley, MA, USA). Experiments were independently repeated and the standard deviation represented. The entire coding regions of ATX1 and CCH, and a truncated version of CCH encoding the 69 amino-terminal amino acids (CCHΔ) were cloned in frame with the GAL4 activating domain into the EcoRI/BamHI restriction sites of the pGADT7 plasmid (Clontech, Mountain View, CA, USA) generating the pGAD–ATX1, pGAD–CCH and pGAD–CCHΔ plasmids. The HMA5 coding region encoding the 290 amino-terminal amino acids containing the two MBDs was cloned in frame with the GAL4 DNA-binding domain into the BamHI/PstI sites of the pGBKT7 plasmid (Clontech) generating the pGBK–HMA5 plasmid. AH109 cells co-transformed with GAD- and GBD-based plasmids were grown in SC-Leu-Trp synthetic media and spotted in 10-fold serial dilutions starting at A600 = 0.1 on SC-Leu-Trp (+His) and SC-Leu-Trp-His (−His) with different concentrations of 3-aminotriazol (AT), and incubated at 30°C for 2–4 days. GAD and GBD fusion proteins were assayed by immunoblotting with GAL4-AD and GAL4-DNA-BD monoclonal antibodies (Clontech).
