!~ABS~! Although lysine (Lys) biosynthesis in plants is known to occur by way of a pathway that utilizes diaminopimelic acid (DAP) as a central intermediate, the available evidence suggests that none of the known DAP-pathway variants found in nature occur in plants. A new Lys biosynthesis pathway has been identified in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) that utilizes a novel transaminase that specifically catalyzes the interconversion of tetrahydrodipicolinate and ll-diaminopimelate, a reaction requiring three enzymes in the DAP-pathway variant found in Escherichia coli. The ll-DAP aminotransferase encoded by locus At4g33680 was able to complement the dapD and dapE mutants of E. coli. This result, in conjunction with the kinetic properties and substrate specificity of the enzyme, indicated that ll-DAP aminotransferase functions in the Lys biosynthetic direction under in vivo conditions. Orthologs of At4g33680 were identified in all the cyanobacterial species whose genomes have been sequenced. The Synechocystis sp. ortholog encoded by locus sll0480 showed the same functional properties as At4g33680. These results demonstrate that the Lys biosynthesis pathway in plants and cyanobacteria is distinct from the pathways that have so far been defined in microorganisms.
!~RES~! To search for an ll-DAP-AT activity in plants, an assay was developed to measure the production of THDPA using OAB, a compound that yields a dihyrodoquinazolinium adduct that has an absorbance maximum at A440. When a soluble extract from axenically grown Arabidopsis plants was incubated with ll-DAP and 2-oxoglutarate (2-OG) as an amino acceptor, a linear formation of 440-nm absorbing material was observed over a period of 90 min (Fig. 2A ). The rate of the reaction was directly proportional to the amount of protein extract added (Fig. 2B). No activity was observed if extract was omitted or when either ll-DAP or 2-OG were absent from the reaction. If the extract was heated in a boiling water bath for 5 min, the activity was completely destroyed. All of these observations strongly suggested that the activity was enzymatic. Moreover, since the source material was axenically grown, the activity must have been derived from the Arabidopsis rather than a contaminating microorganism. [[FIGURE]] Further analysis revealed that the enzyme activity is able to discriminate between isomers of DAP (Table I). It was active only with ll-DAP and not its isomer m-DAP or two structurally related compounds Lys and Orn. The specificity for ll-DAP was further evidenced by the observation that m-DAP or Lys did not inhibit the use of ll-DAP, even when added at 1,000-fold excess concentration over ll-DAP (data not shown). The ll-DAP-AT was also able to discriminate between closely related keto acids (Table I). It used 2-OG as amino acceptor but was unable to use oxaloacetate or pyruvate. These results indicated that the ll-DAP-AT identified in Arabidopsis is highly specialized and a prime candidate for the enzyme that is involved in Lys synthesis. Substrate specificity of Arabidopsis ll-DAP-AT The assays were carried out as described in the legend to Figure 2, except that amino donor and acceptor compounds were varied and 500 μg protein was assayed. Activity is ΔA (440 nm) min−1 mg−1 protein × 103. The minimum activity that could be confidently detected using the OAB assay was 0.1. The taxonomic distribution of ll-DAP-AT activity was assessed to further evaluate whether it is possible that such an enzyme is generally involved in Lys biosynthesis in plants and their photosynthetic allies. Extracts prepared from a variety of vascular plants, from a moss, a green alga, and a cyanobacteria all showed ll-DAP-AT activity, whereas five bacterial species recognized as having one of the two known variants of the DAP pathways using acyl intermediates did not show ll-DAP-AT activity (Table II). The result of this limited taxonomic survey indicated that ll-DAP-AT activity is associated with photosynthetic organisms. Taxonomic distribution of ll-DAP-AT activity The assay conditions were as described in Figure 2, except that some samples were measured at 22°C (*) and others at 30°C (**). Soluble protein extracts were prepared from the leaves of all the angiosperms except maize, which was prepared from embryogenic callus cultures. The other samples were from gametophytic thallus of P. patens or from growing cultures of the microorganisms. Activity is ΔA (440 nm) min−1 mg protein−1 × 103. Isolated chloroplasts are known to be capable of Lys synthesis from Asp (CITATION), indicating that all the enzymes of the pathway must reside within plastids. To determine whether ll-DAP-AT is contained within plastids, chloroplasts were purified from pea (Pisum sativum) by Percoll density gradient centrifugation. The activity from a soluble stromal extract was compared with the activity in a leaf extract. Pea was used for the experiment, rather than Arabidopsis, because chloroplast isolation is much more facile in this species. ll-DAP-AT activity was enriched 2.5-fold in the stromal extract compared with a leaf extract (data not shown), suggesting that the enzyme is contained, at least partly, within the soluble fraction of plastids. The experiment was not intended to determine whether the ll-DAP-AT activity exists in an extrachloroplast compartment. Since the characterization of ll-DAP-AT would be greatly facilitated if the gene encoding this enzyme could be identified, a search was conducted of the Arabidopsis genomic loci encoding known and hypothetical aminotransferases. Specific sequence motifs have been defined that would allow aminotransferase genes to be readily identified in the DNA sequence databases. Using these characters, 44 likely aminotransferases were annotated in Arabidopsis (CITATION). Of these, 19 were reported to be uncharacterized, in the sense that the specific reaction catalyzed by the gene product had not yet been established. Since ll-DAP-AT is very likely to be plastid localized, an initial focus was placed on five uncharacterized aminotransferases predicted to be localized to chloroplasts (At1g77670, At2g13810, At2g22250, At4g33680, and At5g57850). The corresponding cDNAs were expressed in Escherichia coli and an extract of each culture was assayed. In this way At4g33680 was identified as a genetic source of ll-DAP-AT activity. None of the other genes produced such an activity. At4g33680 was annotated as a 461-amino acid, class I/II family aminotransferase. The first 36 amino acids were predicted by TargetP to be a transit peptide for localization of the protein to plastids. The closest paralog to At4g33680 in Arabidopsis is At2g13810, with which it shares 64.4% amino acid identity (CITATION). Despite the homology, recombinant At2g13810 protein did not show ll-DAP-AT activity. It is important to emphasize that there are a number of explanations for why At2g13810 may not have shown ll-DAP-AT activity, but this question has not been explored yet. The kinetic properties of the pure recombinant At4g33680 enzyme were studied using several different assays. The expression and purification of ll-DAP-AT is shown in Figure 3 . The SDS-PAGE analysis shows that the At4g33680 expression plasmid produces a 51-kD protein, identical to the predicted molecular mass of the recombinant protein, and it is purified by nickel-affinity chromatography. The pure enzyme was found to have a 420-nm absorbance feature (data not shown) typically found in enzymes that have pyridoxal phosphate linked to a conserved Lys residue. Most aminotransferases require pyridoxal phosphate as a cofactor (CITATION). The Lys residue at position 305 in the At4g33680 protein is predicted to be the pyridoxal phosphate ligand. [[FIGURE]] With the reverse assay method using OAB the pure ll-DAP-AT showed the same substrate discrimination as the native enzyme in that it was specifically able to use ll-DAP as the amino donor and 2-OG as the acceptor (data not shown). The enzyme was also found to show a temperature optimum of 36°C and a pH optimum of 7.6 when HEPESKOH buffer was used, and 7.9 when TrisHCl buffer was used (data not shown). To examine the activity of ll-DAP-AT, the OAB assay was not ideal because the extinction coefficient of the dihyrodoquinazolinium adduct that OAB forms with THDPA was unknown and the assay would not be useful to determine whether ll-DAP-AT is able to function in the physiologically relevant direction. For this reason quantitative coupled assays were developed to assess the enzyme activity in both the reverse and forward directions. In the reverse direction the formation of THDPA by ll-DAP-AT was measured by coupling with Ddh from Corynebacterium glutamicum, which oxidizes NADPH when converting THDPA to m-DAP. The reaction sequence is shown in Scheme 1.(1)Using this coupled-assay system, ll-DAP-AT was found to have an activity of 22.3 μmol min−1 mg−1 protein and apparent Km values of 67 μm for ll-DAP and 8.7 mm for 2-OG (Table III). Kinetic properties of Arabidopsis ll-DAP-AT The reverse reaction contained in 1 mL 100 μmol HEPESKOH (pH 7.5), 0.3 μmol NADPH, 50 μmol NH4Cl, 0.5 μmol ll-DAP, 5 μmol 2-OG, 16 μg CtDdh, and pure ll-DAP-AT. The reaction was incubated at 30°C and the decrease in A340 was measured. The forward assay conditions were as described in the Figure 2 legend. Vmax is in μmol min−1 mg−1 protein and Kcat is in s−1. The kinetic constants were calculated by nonlinear regression analysis using GraphPad Prizm version 4.03. To measure the forward reaction, a coupled assay was developed that uses 2-OG dehydrogenase to assay 2-OG produced by aminotransfer from Glu to THDPA. To carry out this reaction, it was necessary to use NADPH-dependent Ddh to produce THDPA in situ. The overall reaction series is shown in Scheme 2.(2)Due to the interference that NADPH formation would have on measurement of NADH produced by the 2-OG dehydrogenase reaction, it was necessary to replace NAD+ with thio-NAD+. Thio-NADH has an absorbance maximum at 398 nm, which can be discerned from NADPH, which has an absorbance maximum at 340 nm. Figure 4 illustrates such a reaction. The black symbols show the progress of the THDPA-generating reaction monitored at 340 nm. Two plots are shown using 0.55 and 0.055 mm m-DAP. At the completion of the prereaction, the wavelength was changed to 398 nm, 2-OG dehydrogenase was added, and the absorbance monitored for 2 min. The decrease in absorbance when the wavelength was changed to 398 nm indicated that NADPH does not absorb light significantly at this wavelength. The unchanging absorbance after 2-OG dehydrogenase addition indicated that thio-NAD+ was not reduced by any combination of the substrates or the enzymes in the mixture. However, after addition of ll-DAP-AT there was a progressive increase in absorbance (gray symbols). The rate of the increase was dependent on the initial concentration of THDPA, which was formed from m-DAP in the prereaction. The results show that ll-DAP-AT can operate in the forward direction. Using this assay system, the specific activity of the ll-DAP-AT was found to be 0.38 μmol min−1 mg−1 protein, and it showed an apparent Km of 38 μm for THDPA and 1.9 mm for Glu (Table III). In total, the kinetic constants confirmed that ll-DAP-AT can catalyze the interconversion of THDPA and ll-DAP in vitro. [[FIGURE]] Given the unfavorable Vmax in the forward reaction compared with the reverse reaction, it was of interest to examine whether this enzyme could drive Lys synthesis under physiological conditions. If ll-DAP-AT is able to directly convert THDPA into ll-DAP, it has the potential to bypass the three separate enzymes needed to catalyze the same overall reaction in E. coli, the products of the dapD, dapC, and dapE genes. Of these, only dapD and dapE mutants are auxotrophic for DAP and suitable for the functional complementation assay. The dapD and dapE mutant strains and a double dapD/dapE mutant were transformed with either an empty plasmid or an At4g33680 expression plasmid. Figure 5A shows that, while all strains were able to grow on medium containing DAP, only the strains carrying the At4g33680-expressing plasmid were able to grow without DAP, indicating that the enzyme encoded by At4g33680 is able to bypass the succinylation and desuccinylation reactions required by E. coli to synthesize ll-DAP from THDPA (Fig. 5A). By contrast, At4g33680 was unable to complement a dapB mutant (data not shown). The complementation result confirms that ll-DAP-AT can function in the forward direction under physiological conditions by catalyzing in a single step, a reaction that requires three enzymes in E. coli (Fig. 5B). [[FIGURE]] To assess the taxonomic distribution of ll-DAP-AT, the coding sequence of At4g33680 was used to search the protein sequence databases. A neighbor-joining tree showing the relationship of homologous sequences in plant and cyanobacteria is depicted in Figure 6 . For the sake of comparison the DapC sequences from Bordetella parapertussis, C. glutamicum, and the ArgD sequences from E. coli, Bordetella pertussis, and Bacillus subtilis were included in the analysis. Both DapC and ArgD have been shown to catalyze aminotransfer to N-succinyl-l-2-amino-6-oxopimelate, which is the reaction in the acyl DAP pathways (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) analogous to that catalyzed by ll-DAP-AT (Fig. 1). The tree shows three major clades. One includes the orthologs of ll-DAP-AT, which branches into closely related cyanobacterial and eukaryotic forms. Another includes DapC orthologs, and a third includes ArgD orthologs. The clades share low sequence homology. For example, Synechocystis sll0480 shares about 19% sequence identity with either C. glutamicum or B. parapertussis DapC. In contrast, the most divergent members of the ll-DAP-AT group share a minimum of 46% identity. By way of comparison, the closest sll0480 homologs in C. glutamicum (encoded by locus NCgl0780) and B. parapertussis (encoded by locus BPP2478) show about 23% identity with sll0480. Thus, despite the fact that class I and II family aminotransferases are descended from a common ancestor, the divergence indicates that all the ll-DAP-AT share a distinct lineage that is different from either DapC or ArgD. [[FIGURE]] To assess the function of the cyanobacterial subgroup of the ll-DAP-AT clade, the ortholog from Synechocystis (sll0480) was cloned and expressed in E. coli. Like its Arabidopsis counterpart, sll0480 exhibited robust ll-DAP-AT activity approximately equal to recombinant At4g33680 and was able to functionally complement E. coli dapD, dapE, and dapD/dapE mutants (data not shown). The finding that sll0480 encodes an ll-DAP-AT suggests that Synechocystis and very likely all the cyanobacteria may have a Lys biosynthesis pathway similar to that found in plants. To obtain additional evidence for this hypothesis, the cyanobacterial sequenced genomes were surveyed for orthologs of the known DAP proteins from heterotrophic bacteria. If cyanobacteria have a plant-like Lys biosynthesis pathway, they would be expected to lack orthologs of DapD, DapC, DapE, and Ddh, just as was recently observed for Arabidopsis (CITATION). No orthlogs of DapD, DapE, and Ddh could be identified in any of the sequenced cyanobacterial genomes (see Supplemental Table I cataloging the Dap genes in Synechocystis sp.). Although DapC orthlogs could be identified in all the cyanobacterial species, the level of homology (approximately 20% identity) was well below the 45% identity observed among the most divergent ll-DAP-AT orthologs. These results indicate that cyanobacteria, like Arabidopsis, probably lack the enzymes from the core of the acyl-DAP and Ddh pathways. This observation, coupled with the functional identification of an ll-DAP-AT from Synechocystis, suggests that cyanobacteria synthesize Lys via an enzyme that directly converts THDPA to ll-DAP.
!~MM~! The microbial strains used in this study are listed along with their contributors: Escherichia coli strains AT980, AT984, and AT999 (Coli Genetic Stock Center), JC7623 (CITATION), BL21(DE3)/pET28-CgDDH expressing Corynebacterium glutamicum Ddh (D.I. Roper, University of Warwick), Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 and Bacteriophage P1kc (American Type Culture Collection, nos. 27184 and 25404-B1, respectively), Synechococcus sp. PCC7942 (B. Zilinskas, Rutgers University), Bacillus subtilis 168 (Bacillus Genetic Stock Center), Rhizobium tropici USDA9030 (U.S. Department of Agriculture-Agricultural Research Service National Rhizobium Germplasm Collection), and Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 (CITATION). Molecular biology techniques were performed as generally described by CITATION. E. coli strain AOH1 was constructed by transduction of ΔdapD∷Kan2 from JC7623 into AT984 using P1kc. Replacement of dapD+ with dapD∷Kan2 was confirmed by PCR using primers 5′-AATGGAGATCGGCCAGAAAAA-3′ and 5′-GGTGCCCGAATTACAACCATT-3′. Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) Col7 (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center), Glycine max, spinach (Spinacia oleracea), Brassica napus, and pea (Pisum sativum) Progress 9 were grown in peat-based PRO-MIX BX and fertilized with Peter's nutrients 20:20:20 (N:P:K) in a growth chamber with 16-h-light and 8-h-dark periods. The temperature was 24°C during the light period and 20°C during the dark. Light intensity was 120 μE m−2 s−1. Arabidopsis was also grown axenically in Murashige and Skoog liquid medium with minimal organics (Sigma-Aldrich product no. M6899). Surface-sterilized seed were sown into 50-mL medium in a 250-mL Erlenmeyer flask and were grown for 10 d with constant mixing on an orbital shaker at 50 rpm. Convallaria majalis was collected from the field. Maize (Zea mays) was from an embryogenic culture (CITATION). Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and Physcomitrella patens were grown as described (CITATION; CITATION). The cDNA derived from At4g33680 was amplified by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR using the primers 5′-GGGGCATTGGAAGGAGATATAACCATGGCAGTCAATACTTGCAAATGT-3′ and 5′-GGGGGTCGACTCATTTGTAAAGCTGCTTGAATCTTCG-3′. Total RNA was isolated from 25-d-old Arabidopsis leaf using Trizol reagent (Life Technologies). RT was carried out with Superscript II RNAse H− Reverse Transcriptase system (Invitrogen, catalog no. 18064-014) using 1 μg of total RNA and an oligo(dT) primer. PCR was then carried out with the gene-specific primers using 12 pm of each primer, 1 mm MgSO4, 0.5 mm of each of the four deoxynucleotide triphosphates, 2 μL RT reaction, and 1 unit of Platinum Pfx DNA polymerase using the following conditions: 1 cycle at 94°C, 2 min; and 36 cycles at 94°C for 15 s, 60°C for 30 s, and 72°C for 2 min. The DNA fragment was digested with NcoI and SalI and cloned into pET30b to produce pET30-AtDAT. The recombinant protein lacks the first 39 amino acids of the At4g33680 protein and carries hexa-His and S-TAG sequence derived from pET30b at its amino terminus. Synechocystis sp. sll0480 was amplified from genomic DNA by PCR using the primers 5′-GGGGGGATCCATGGCCAGTATCAACGACAAC-3′ and 5′-GGGGGTCGACCTAACCCAATTTGAGGGTGGA-3′. The DNA fragment was digested with BamHI and SalI and cloned into pET30b to produce pET30-SsDAT. The recombinant protein derived from this plasmid carries the affinity tags fused to the amino terminus of the full-length sll0480 protein. pET30b-AtDAT and pET30b-SsDAT were transformed into E. coli BL21-CodonPlus-RIPL. Plasmids for functional complementation of E. coli dap mutants were produced by subcloning the XbaI and SalI fragment from pET30-AtDAT or pET30-SsDAT into pBAD33 (CITATION) to produce pBAD33-AtDAT and pBAD33-SsDAT. The fusion proteins produced from the pBAD33 constructs were identical to those from the pET30b constructs. For protein expression and purification, the strains were grown on Luria-Bertani (LB) medium at 37°C to an OD600 nm of 0.5 and protein expression was then induced with 1 mm isopropylthio-β-galactoside for 4 h at 25°C. Cells were lysed by sonication in a solution of 50 mm sodium phosphate and 300 mm NaCl (pH 8.0). The soluble fraction was incubated with Talon metal affinity agarose (CLONTECH no. 8901-2), washed three times with lysis buffer containing 10 mm imidazole, and eluted with 300 mm imidazole. The protein was concentrated in an Amicon Ultra 30,000 molecular weight cutoff (MWCO) ultrafilter, replacing the elution buffer with 100 mm HEPESKOH, pH 7.6. For the E. coli culture expressing C. glutamicum Ddh, the protein was not purified because it comprised approximately 90% of the soluble protein. The preparation converted m-DAP to THDPA at a rate of 14 μmol min−1 mg−1 protein at 30°C. In functional complementation dap mutant strains were transformed with either the plasmid vector or with ll-DAP-AT expression plasmids. Transformants were selected on LB medium supplemented with 50 μg mL−1 DAP (DL-α,ε-DAP, Sigma-Aldrich product no. D-1377) and 34 μg mL−1 chloramphenicol. Individual colonies were then replica plated onto NZY medium (5 g L−1 NaCl, 2 g L−1 MgSO4-7H2O, 10 g L−1 caseine hydrolysate, 5 g L−1 yeast extract, 15 g L−1 agar) supplemented with 0.2% (w/v) Ara without or with 50 μg mL−1 DAP. The cultures were grown at 30°C for 48 h. For enzyme assays of crude proteins, extracts were prepared by grinding tissue in liquid nitrogen with 100 mm HEPESKOH (pH 7.6), followed by centrifugation at 10,000g for 15 min, and then buffer exchange using an Amicon Ultra 30,000 MWCO filter. The OAB assay contained in 1 mL 100 μmol HEPESKOH (pH 7.6), 0.5 μmol amino donor, 2.0 μmol 2-OG, and 1.25 mg OAB, and crude soluble protein or pure protein. Reactions were incubated at 30°C and the ΔA (440 nm) measured continuously. Quantitative assay of the physiologically reverse activity was measured in 1 mL containing 100 μmol HEPESKOH (pH 7.5), 0.3 μmol NADPH, 50 μmol NH4Cl, 0.5 μmol ll-DAP, 5 μmol 2-OG, 16 μg CtDdh, and pure ll-DAP-AT. The reaction was incubated at 30°C, and the decrease in A340 was measured. Quantitative assay of the physiologically forward reaction was measured in 1 mL containing 100 μmol HEPESKOH (pH 7.5), 0.5 μmol NADP+, varying concentrations of m-DAP, 0.3 μmol thio-NAD+, 0.3 μmol CoA, 0.5 μmol Glu, and 32 μg Ddh. The reaction was run to completion, determined by monitoring the increase in A340. Then 200 μg of 2-OG dehydrogenase (0.625 μmol min−1 mg−1 protein) and pure ll-DAP-AT were added. The kinetic constants were calculated by nonlinear regression analysis using GraphPad Prizm version 4.03.
