!~ABS~! The plant cortical microtubule array is a unique acentrosomal array that is essential for plant morphogenesis. To understand how this array is organized, we exploited the microtubule (+)-end tracking activity of two Arabidopsis EB1 proteins in combination with FRAP (fluorescence recovery after photobleaching) experiments of GFP-tubulin to examine the relationship between cortical microtubule array organization and polarity. Significantly, our observations show that the majority of cortical microtubules in ordered arrays, within a particular cell, face the same direction in both Arabidopsis plants and cultured tobacco cells. We determined that this polar microtubule coalignment is at least partially due to a selective stabilization of microtubules, and not due to a change in microtubule polymerization rates. Finally, we show that polar microtubule coalignment occurs in conjunction with parallel grouping of cortical microtubules and that cortical array polarity is progressively enhanced during array organization. These observations reveal a novel aspect of plant cortical microtubule array organization and suggest that selective stabilization of dynamic cortical microtubules plays a predominant role in the self-organization of cortical arrays.
!~RES~! One evolutionarily conserved and important property of EB1 proteins is the ability to bind the (+)-ends of MTs (CITATION; CITATION) with high affinity; additionally, a lower affinity interaction has also been observed along the sidewalls of MTs (CITATION). An earlier report by Chan et al. (CITATION), who used a strong 35S promoter, did reveal the sidewall binding to plant MTs and hence we asked if the use of weaker and/or endogenous promoters would allow more exclusive reporting of the MT (+)-ends. To investigate whether the Arabidopsis EB1 proteins can associate with MT (+)-ends, under low expression conditions, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing either EB1a, b, or c fused with GFP under the control of the HSP18.2 inducible promoter, which allows for fine-tuning of EB1 expression. Under this carefully controlled condition, we found that EB1a-GFP and EB1b-GFP exclusively show cometlike structures (i.e., the signal has an asymmetric axial distribution, with the brightest signal emanating from the leading edge; 0.98 ± 0.15 μm for EB1a and 0.99 ± 0.13 μm for EB1b) that appear to move rapidly in the cell (Figures 1, A and B, and Supplementary Movie 1). These EB1-comets disappear upon treatment with a MT depolymerizing agent, propyzamide, but not with latrunculin-B, which induces F-actin depolymerization (Supplementary Figure 1). In contrast to EB1a and b, induced EB1c-GFP does not show cometlike MT labeling and instead it is localized to the nucleus (Figure 1C). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the EB1-GFP localization patterns are conserved across plant families, EB1-GFP proteins were similarly expressed in stably transformed tobacco BY-2 cells. Our data showed that, as in Arabidopsis, low expressing EB1a-GFP and EB1b-GFP appeared in a cometlike pattern (1.01 ± 0.11 μm for EB1a; 1.11 ± 0.18 μm for EB1b; n = 50; Figure 1, A and B, and Supplementary Movie 2), whereas EB1c-GFP is nuclear (Figure 1C). The cometlike character, with the bright side leading has been shown to be diagnostic of (+)-end growth (CITATION) and in all instances this behavior was observed in plant cells that expressed EB1 at low levels. In addition, during mitosis, EB1a-GFP and EB1b-GFP comets are seen to migrate toward and accumulate at the spindle midzone (i.e., away from the spindle poles), which is consistent with MT (+)-end localization because (+)-ends extensively interdigitate in this area of the spindle. Accumulation was not observed at the spindle poles (Supplementary Movie 3). EB1a-GFP and EB1b-GFP are indistinguishable in terms of comet growth velocity (5.10 ± 0.7 μm/min vs. 4.98 ± 0.78 μm/min; n = 100 MTs, respectively). Notably, in contrast to the low expression conditions, high expression of EB1b-GFP in BY-2 cells, using the 35S promoter, results in loss of (+)-end-labeling specificity and more extensive labeling of MTs, which indicates the lower affinity sidewall binding site is present in plant EB1 (Supplementary Figure 2). To further investigate whether functions of EB1 are evolutionarily conserved, we examined whether EB1 can rescue MT defects in fission yeast that lack the EB1 ortholog Mal3. As shown in Figure 1D, mal3 null cells are hypersensitive to drugs that destabilize MTs, such as TBZ (CITATION), and this defect is more efficiently rescued by EB1b and only weakly rescued by EB1c. Collectively, we concluded from these results that EB1a and EB1b, like the mammalian and yeast counterparts, display a strong MT (+)-end binding activity under low expression conditions, whereas EB1c is a more divergent form. The MT (+)-end localization of EB1a-GFP and EB1b-GFP provided a tool to examine the MT (+)-end distribution in the crowded plant cortical MT array. In isodiametric BY-2 cells, the EB1a-GFP and EB1b-GFP comets are oriented in random directions, suggesting that these MTs are not organized and thus displaying random MT (+)-end polarity (Supplementary Figure 3 and Supplementary Movie 4). However, in elongated BY-2 cells, the EB1a-GFP and EB1b-GFP markers revealed that the majority of MT (+)-ends (76 ± 12% with EB1a; >600 microtubules; and 79 ± 13% with EB1b; >800 microtubules; 10 cells each) are oriented transversely with the same polarity (Figure 2A and Supplementary Movie 5). Moreover, optical sectioning of these cells showed that the cortical MT (+)-end polarity is continuous along all faces of the cell (i.e., the polarity is observed circumferentially about the cell; unpublished data). To better understand this phenomenon in organized tissues, we also analyzed Arabidopsis plants that were stably transformed with a construct expressing EB1b-GFP, under the control of the native EB1b promoter, and found that epidermal cells containing transverse (indicative of a rapid elongative state) or longitudinal (indicative of tissues that have ceased elongating; CITATION) cortical arrays also display polar (76 ± 9%; >500 microtubules; 12 cells; 5 independent lines) MT (+)-end organization (Figure 2B and Supplementary Movie 6). Using the same analytical approach as with the cultured BY-2 cells, we closely examined cells in these organized tissues (i.e., all cells had ordered cortical MTs) and observed an interesting pattern in which ∼70% of cells with organized cortical MT arrays exhibit global cortical array polarity; that is, the same net MT polarity was observed in all regions of the cortex in these cells. Furthermore, the net cortical MT array polarity appeared to be cell autonomous, i.e., one cell can contain MTs of one polarity, while its neighbor can contain MTs of the opposite polarity. In the remaining 30% of cells with organized cortical MT arrays, regional variation in net MT polarity was observed. In such cells, distinguishable belts or hoops of opposing MT polarity occur in the cell cortex (Figure 3, A and B). In these cells, we noted a boundary area where MT dynamics appeared somewhat depressed as judged by a lower frequency of comets in this area. These boundary regions were not included in our quantitative analyses. Similar to cells with global MT array polarity, the net polarity within individual belts of MT polarity is ∼80% on average. In all cases, we typically observed the same net organization in neighboring cells (i.e., similar net transverse, oblique, or longitudinal arrangement) but the net direction of microtubule polarity could differ. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the cortical MT organization, as detected by EB1 labeling, properly represents all the MTs in the cortex, we sought to examine the organization of MT polarity in Arabidopsis plants by tracking the direction of β-tubulin 6 (TUB6) polymerization, which takes place at the (+)- end of the MT. To this end, we performed FRAP to first photobleach a segment of cortical MTs labeled by GFP-TUB6 (CITATION) and then examined the polarity of these MTs by tracking the direction in which fluorescence recovery occurred. In agreement with previous studies (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we found that the photobleached MTs recovered fully within 2–3 min, confirming the high turnover of cortical MTs. In support of our EB1 studies, we observed that in the photobleached region, the majority of the MTs (70 ± 10%; >500 MTs; 25 cells) are of the same polarity. This is true of cells with longitudinal (Figure 4A and Supplementary Movie 7) and transverse (Figure 4B and Supplementary Movie 8) arrays. Therefore, polar coalignment of cortical MTs is a general property of parallel MT organization. [[FIGURE]] We next examined how selective MT (+)-end alignment might be established. We asked if MTs with the same polarity are somehow selectively more stable than those MTs with opposite polarity. This quantification was performed by tracking individual EB1 comets appearing from within 1 μm of the cell edge and determining their duration before they disappeared (due to MT pause or catastrophe) or exited the field of view at the other edge. Comet loss due to MT pause or catastrophe was distinguishable from the occasional MT comets coming in and out of the focal plane because comet loss occurred asymmetrically starting from the tail of the comet to the distal end, whereas, MTs coming in and out of the focal plane were distinguishable by the progressive blurring or sharpening of the entire comet. Only those comets that remained within the focal plane during their lifespan were included in the quantification. These data are a measure of the duration of MT growth because EB1 dissociates from the ends of paused or depolymerizing MTs. Our data obtained from EB1b-GFP-expressing BY-2 cells (Supplementary Figure 4) show that the average “lifespan” of the comets is significantly greater among MTs oriented in the majority direction (85 ± 15 s vs. 67 ± 11 s; p-value of 0.002 using t test; >500 MTs). MT comets oriented in the majority direction frequently followed the tracks of previous comets (Supplementary Figure 4), consistent with MT bundling following shallow-angle MT encounters (CITATION). On the other hand, MT comets oriented in the minority direction frequently disappeared after encountering MT comets growing in the majority direction. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that cortical MT array polarity is established through selective stabilization (and therefore enrichment) of copolar MTs compared with antiparallel MTs. We found no significant difference in the comet velocities between MTs of opposing directions, suggesting that MT polymerization rate is not the mechanism leading to net cortical array polarity. To understand the sequence of events leading to the establishment of cortical array polarity, newly forming cortical MT arrays were examined in 10 recently divided EB1b-GFP-expressing BY-2 cells. After the completion of cytokinesis, EB1b-GFP comets populate the cortex in multiple orientations as newly nucleated cortical MTs appear (Figure 5; panel 10 min). In the initial stages of cortical array formation (∼30 min after cytokinesis), MTs headed in multiple directions and typically only 30–40% MT (+)-end coalignment was observed (panel 30 min). In the subsequent stages of array organization, the number of discordantly oriented MTs decreases, whereas the number of transversely aligned MTs increases with no significant change in the total number of MTs (panels 45 min to 240 min). Simultaneously, the number of MTs with coaligned (+)-ends increases, ultimately resulting in a net (∼80%), but not absolute, cortical MT array polarity. This trend was consistently observed in all 10 cells and the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test confirmed that the distribution of MT angles after the completion of cytokinesis is significantly (p ∼ 0.005) different from the distribution of MT angles 3 h after the completion of cytokinesis. These results suggest that to order cortical MTs, the population of MTs with the same polarity gradually enriches as more randomly oriented MTs become parallel to one another.
!~MM~! The EB1a, b, and c-GFP fusion constructs were generated using recombinant PCR with the following primers: 5′ EB1a, GGATCCATGGCGACGAACATCGGA; 3′ EB1a, TCCGGTTGTTGCGGCGGCTTGAGTCTTTTCTTC; 5′ EB1b, GGATCCATGGCGACGAACATTGGGATG; 3′ EB1b, TCCGGTTGTTGCGGCAGTTTGGGTCTCTGCAGC; 5′ EB1c, GGATCCATGGCTACGAACATTGGGATG; 3′ EB1c, TCCGGTTGTTGCGGCGCAGGTCAAGAGAGGAGA; 5′ GFP, GCCGCAACAACCGGAGCCATGAGTAAAGGAGAAGAAC; 3′ GFP, GAGCTCTTATCCCGCTTTGTATAG. All constructs were confirmed by sequencing and subsequently cloned downstream of a HSP18.2 promoter (CITATION) in the pCAMBIA1300 vector and introduced into Nicotiana tabacum L. cv. Bright Yellow-2 cells and Arabidopsis thaliana var. Columbia plants using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The EB1b-GFP construct was also cloned downstream of the EB1b promoter (1.5-kb sequence upstream of the EB1b start codon) in the pCAMBIA1300 vector and was introduced into A. thaliana plants using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transformed cells and plants were selected using 25 mg/l hygromycin, and independent transformants were used for subsequent analyses. Heat-shock induction was achieved by exposing BY-2 cells (25 ml of cells in a 125-ml flask at 100 rpm rotation) and Arabidopsis plants (in a humid chamber) to 34°C for 2 h. Preliminary experiments showed that this treatment regime did not perturb cell growth, MT dynamics, or mitotic index. Although this treatment was mild, we routinely followed heat shock with recovery for at least 3 h at room temperature before conducting observations. A mal3 null mutant (CITATION) was transformed with the thiamine-repressible pREP1 vector control or pREP1-containing Arabidopsis EB1 orthologues or mal3 as the positive control. Transformed cells were selected on appropriate minimal medium containing thiamine (20 μM). Colonies of cells were pregrown in thiamine-free medium overnight to log phase before being serially diluted (1:5) and spotted on plates containing thiabendazole (TBZ) or the solvent (dimethyl sulfoxide) control. The standard yeast methods were as described (CITATION). BY-2 cells, 2–3 d after subculture, were observed by immobilizing them on poly-l-lysine-coated coverslips in a humid chamber. Two- to 3-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings were observed by mounting them on poly-l-lysine-coated slides in distilled water. Images were collected using either a 40× (1.2 NA) C-Apochromat or 100× (1.3 NA) Plan-Neofluar, objective (Zeiss, Thornwood, NY). Wide-field microscopy was conducted with a Zeiss Axiovert S100 TV microscope. Images were captured with a CoolSNAP HQ camera (Roper Scientific, Tucson, AZ) using 20–30% light intensity from a 100 W mercury arc-lamp and GFP (460–500-nm excitation, 510–560-nm emission) filter set at 5–10-s intervals using 1-s exposure times over a 5–10-min period. MT orientation was quantified by determining the angle of MT growth relative to the long axis of the cell. For these measurements, up to 20° difference in MT angles was considered to represent the same direction because MT encounters at this angle resulted in MT coalignment 90% of the time (CITATION). MTs that started out at divergent angles at the beginning of the movie but which subsequently became coaligned with other MTs after MT encounters were considered to be oriented in the same direction. However, if a rare MT changed direction more than 20° at the end of the movie, it was scored as a divergent MT. Confocal microscopy was conducted with a Zeiss 510 Meta laser scanning microscope. The 488-nm laser line, at 3–5% power output, was selected for GFP excitation, and images were collected using 1-s scan times. For the fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) experiments, photobleaching was achieved using three scans at 100% laser power, followed by image acquisition using 3% laser power at 3-s intervals.
