!~ABS~! Mechanosensitive (MS) ion channels provide a mechanism for the perception of mechanical stimuli such as sound, touch, and osmotic pressure. The bacterial MS ion channel MscS opens in response to increased membrane tension and serves to protect against cellular lysis during osmotic downshock. MscS-like proteins are found widely in bacterial and archaeal species and have also been identified in fission yeast and plants. None of the eukaryotic members of the family have yet been characterized.
!~RES~! A phylogenetic tree describing the relationship between selected MscS family members from microorganisms and plants is shown in CITATION . From Escherichia coli , Prochlorococcus marinus , Chlamydomonas reinhardtii , Schizosaccaromyces pombe , Arabidopsis thaliana , and Oryza sativa , we selected proteins that contain a MscS domain (COG0068) according to the Conserved Domain Database of the National Center for Biotechnology information CITATION . The ten Arabidopsis MSL proteins fall into two clusters. MSL4–10 cluster with eukaryotic MscS-like proteins from rice, yeast, and green algae. The other three MSL proteins, MSL1–3, are the most similar to MscS and cluster with MscS-like proteins from both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. MSL2 and MSL3 are closely related, both to each other and to a rice protein provisionally named OsMSL2. X-ray crystallography of E. coli MscS revealed a homoheptameric ion channel wherein each monomer contributes three N-terminal transmembrane helices to the pore-forming domain. The C-terminal domains interact to form a cytoplasmic structure thought to serve as a prefilter CITATION . Sequence conserved among MscS family members includes the pore-lining transmembrane domain (TM3 in MscS) and the adjacent MscS-family consensus sequence CITATION . MscMJ—one of two archaeal MscS-like ion channels CITATION —MSL2, MSL3, and OsMSL2 all show sequence conservation in this region ( CITATION A). Functional studies have implicated a repeating sequence of glycines and alanines in TM3 in the regulation of the gating transition of MscS CITATION . The corresponding transmembrane domain in MSL2 and MSL3 is also rich in glycines and alanines. Two leucine side chains within TM3, L105 and L109, are thought to generate a hydrophobic seal at the cytoplasmic entrance to the pore of MscS CITATION . In AtMSL2, AtMSL3, and OsMSL2, L109 is conserved and L105 has undergone a conservative substitution to valine ( CITATION A, asterisks). The MscS-family consensus sequence is partially conserved in AtMSL2, AtMSL3, and OsMSL2, but its function is currently unknown. The sequence conservation between bacterial and plant members of the MscS family, although limited, suggested that MSL2 and MSL3 might function as MS ion channels. To provide support for this hypothesis, we used a well-established assay for MS-ion-channel activity in bacteria, the osmotic-shock assay CITATION . Cells are grown in high-salt and then diluted into low-salt media; survival of the ensuing hypo-osmotic shock requires MscS or MscL. IPTG-inducible expression vectors driving the production of MscS, MSL2, or MSL3 were tested for rescue of the osmotic-shock sensitivity of an E. coli strain lacking the three mechanosensitive ion channels MscS, MscL, and MscK (MJF456) CITATION . As expected, induction of MscS expression is sufficient to restore hypo-osmotic-shock survival to MJF465 ( CITATION B). We also observed that MSL3 is capable of reproducibly rescuing the osmotic sensitivity of MJF465. Transformation of the MSL2 gene into E. coli caused a severe growth defect and was not pursued further. These data are consistent with our model that MSL3 functions as a mechanosensitive ion channel. To provide further support for this model, we made use of an assay developed by Booth and colleagues CITATION . The assay relies on the nonspecific nature of MS ion channels: When opened, they allow movement of ions in both directions across the membrane. For wild-type cells, an osmotic downshock that occurs in low-pH medium will lead to cytoplasmic acidification and result in cell death. If MSL3 is indeed functioning as a MS ion channel in E. coli , bacteria expressing MSL3 should suffer cytoplasmic acidification when the downshock medium is acidic and no longer survive. We tested this prediction by growing MJF465 expressing MscS or MSL3 in high-salt media and then diluting into low-salt or high-salt media, both at pH 3.6. MJF465 expressing MscS or MSL3 did not survive osmotic shock in pH 3.6 medium ( CITATION C). Both strains survived dilution into pH 3.6 iso-osmotic medium, indicating that downshock was required for loss of viability in acidic media. MSL2 and MSL3 are predicted to have a very similar structure, comprising an N-terminal chloroplast transit peptide CITATION , five transmembrane helices CITATION , and a C-terminal cytoplasmic domain ( CITATION A). The region of similarity to MscS shown in CITATION A is underlined; MSL2 and MSL3 are 91% identical at the amino acid level in this region and 50% identical overall. The translational start codon predicted by The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR, CITATION ) for MSL2 is indicated by an asterisk. This start site would produce a protein with four transmembrane domains and an ambiguous subcellular localization. The translational start-site codon used in our analyses is located 1094 bp upstream from this site and would produce a protein with an N terminus highly similar to that of MSL3, with five transmembrane domains and a strongly predicted chloroplast transit sequence. We were able to amplify and clone a cDNA corresponding to the region between the two putative start codons, and we have submitted a revised version of the MSL2 cDNA annotation to TAIR. To begin to investigate the function of MSL2 and MSL3 , we identified transgenic Arabidopsis lines harboring insertions in MSL2 ( msl2-1 ) and in MSL3 ( msl3-1 ) in pools provided by the Arabidopsis Knockout Facility at the University of Wisconsin, Madison CITATION . Both insertions are located in the last exon of the relevant gene. The 5′ border of the T-DNA insertion in msl3-1 is at bp 1546 of the open reading frame, whereas the 3′ border of the insertion in msl2-1 is at bp 1386 ( CITATION A). We were unable to amplify the 5′ border of the msl2-1 insertion for sequencing. MSL2 and MSL3 mRNA was detected at high levels in leaves, inflorescences, and roots by RT-PCR in both wild-type and msl2-1; msl3-1 double-mutant plants ( CITATION in the CITATION available online). Although msl2-1 and msl3-1 single mutants did not have an observable phenotype, msl2-1; msl3-1 double-mutant plants produced light-green sectors on their leaves ( CITATION B). The development of light-green sectors was most dramatic in the cauline leaves of older plants, but was also visible in rosette leaves, except the first two or three true leaves. The presence of leaves with domains of different color, or variegation, has been described in a number of other mutants in Arabidopsis CITATION . The variegated phenotype of msl2-1; msl3-1 plants was rescued by the introduction of transgenic MSL2 or MSL3 genomic fragments ( pMSL2g or pMSL3g , see CITATION for a description). In all other respects analyzed, msl2-1; msl3-1 plants were wild-type, except for a partial infertility that is likely a result of a fragment of the APETALA3 gene present in the T-DNA construct and has been observed in a number of other insertion lines from the same facility CITATION . In support of this conclusion, fertility was not improved by introduction of pMSL2g or pMSL3g . To investigate the cause of the variegation observed in msl2-1; msl3-1 plants, we prepared plastic sections from cauline leaves of wild-type and mutant plants. Compared to wild-type leaves ( CITATION C, left panel), msl2-1; msl3-1 mutant leaves show disruptions in cell arrangement and morphology, as well as the overall leaf shape ( CITATION C, right panel). Leaf tissue in the mutant has larger air spaces between cells compared to the wild-type, and all cells, including epidermal, palisade, and mesophyll cells, are larger than in wild-type leaves and appear misshapen. Furthermore, the leaf blade is thicker in the double-mutant than in the wild-type leaf. We did not observe evidence of increased cell death in msl2-1; msl3-1 mutants by trypan blue staining (data not shown) and conclude that the increased cell volume and air spaces evident in these sections are responsible for the variegation observed in msl2-1; msl3-1 leaves. Because a number of previously characterized variegation mutants harbor lesions in nuclear genes that function in chloroplast development or metabolism CITATION , we investigated the morphology of chloroplasts in msl2-1; msl3-1 mutants. Chloroplasts enlarged to various extents were observed in mesophyll cells of msl2-1; msl3-1 leaves ( CITATION A). Some mesophyll cells from double-mutant leaves are larger than those from wild-type leaves, as observed above. In msl2-1; msl3-1 , approximately 20% of the mesophyll cells of late cauline leaves contained enlarged chloroplasts, whereas no abnormal chloroplasts were observed in leaves from wild-type plants or single mutants. MSL2 and MSL3 genomic fragments were able to rescue this phenotype because only 1%–2% of the mesophyll cells contained enlarged chloroplasts in T1 lines carrying pMSL2g or pMSL3g ( CITATION B). Transmission electron microscopy was performed to characterize the ultrastructure of the enlarged chloroplasts observed in the double mutant. As illustrated in CITATION C, the enlarged chloroplasts found in the msl2-1; msl3-1 mutant developed properly, with normal levels of thylakoid membranes, starch granules, and vacuoles. In the right panel, one normally sized and one greatly enlarged chloroplast can be seen in a section through a palisade cell from a msl2-1; msl3-1 mutant. The ruffled, lumpy appearance of the thylakoid membranes was typical of the largest of the chloroplasts we observed (compare to the smooth surface of wild-type thylakoid membranes, upper left panel). Plastids are semi-independent endosymbiotic organelles present in almost every cell of the plant, responsible not just for photosynthesis but for a number of metabolic reactions and processes that include fatty acid and amino acid synthesis, starch production and storage, and gravity perception CITATION . Small, undifferentiated proplastids develop into specialized versions, such as chloroplasts, chromoplasts, amyloplasts, and other nongreen plastids, in response to developmental and environmental signals. We therefore asked whether the morphological defects observed in the msl2-1; msl3-1 mutant might also be observed in other plastids. To visualize nongreen plastids, we constructed the plastid stroma-localized dsRED marker pRecARED CITATION and introduced it into wild-type and msl2-1; msl3-1 plants. Wild-type and mutant plants harboring pRecARED were examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy. pRecARED fluorescence was detected in mesophyll chloroplasts of wild-type and msl2-1; msl3-1 plants, showing that the marker is properly targeted to plastids, and confirming the presence of enlarged chloroplasts in the double mutant ( CITATION A). In wild-type plants, plastids found in the pavement cells of the leaf epidermis were small and lens shaped ( CITATION B). These plastids occasionally exhibited stromules, dynamic tubular extensions of unknown function CITATION ( CITATION D, inset). In msl2-1; msl3-1 cells, the plastids of the pavement cells of the leaf epidermis were much larger (up to twice the diameter) than those seen in wild-type pavement cells ( CITATION C and 5D). Furthermore, these enlarged plastids appeared spherical, with no observable stromules or other surface disruptions. Almost all of the plastids in the epidermis of mutant leaves and cotyledons analyzed had this abnormal morphology, and normally shaped plastids were rarely observed. The plastids of the root epidermis of wild-type plants had an appearance similar to those in the leaf ( CITATION E), whereas in the msl2-1; msl3-1 root, plastids again appeared round and enlarged ( CITATION F). Occasionally, normally shaped plastids were also observed in the same cell (arrows). Cells containing plastids with long, tangled stromules were also observed in the root epidermis of the double mutant, although infrequently ( CITATION G). The spherical plastids are not an artifact of the pRecARED transgene—a similar intracellular structure can be observed under light microscopy of the root epidermis of mutant plants that do not harbor the transgene—and are not present in wild-type plants ( CITATION ). Amyloplasts are starch-filled plastids that play a central role in gravity perception in both the shoot and the root. Amyloplast morphology in the double mutant was indistinguishable from that of wild-type plants, both by pRecARED marker localization ( CITATION ) and by potassium-iodide staining of starch granules (data not shown). The observation that MSL2 and MSL3 encode proteins with N-terminal chloroplast transit sequences suggested that they might localize to plastids and directly affect their morphology. To test this hypothesis, we generated plants expressing MSL2 and MSL3 fused to GFP at their C termini under the control of their own promoters, as described in CITATION . The MSL2p::MSL2-GFP and MSL3p::MSL3-GFP transgenes are each capable of rescuing the variegated phenotype of the msl2-1; msl3-1 mutant in the T1 and T2 generations (data not shown). As predicted, in both transgenic lines, GFP fluorescence was associated with chloroplasts and other plastids in the shoot and root ( CITATION A–6D). Unexpectedly, the GFP signal was not uniform, but was localized to distinct spots or foci on the chloroplast surface. Either one or two foci were seen, usually at one or both ends of the chloroplast. Occasionally, a third dot was observable at the middle of the plastid ( CITATION A and 6B). The GFP signal was most frequently found associated with small, dividing chloroplasts in the hypocotyl and at the base of expanding leaves, but could also be found associated with larger chloroplasts throughout the mesophyll ( CITATION C) and with nongreen plastids of the leaf epidermis and root ( CITATION D). By fluorescence microscopy, MSL2-GFP and MSL3-GFP appear to be associated with the plastid envelope. To validate this observation, we used biochemical fractionation and immunoblotting to characterize the subcellular localization of MSL2-GFP and MSL3-GFP. The levels and detectability of MSL2-GFP and MSL3-GFP were determined by subjecting whole-cell extracts of leaf tissue to SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting with an antibody recognizing GFP. Bands at the approximate size predicted for the fusion proteins (102 kDa) were detected in the transgenic extracts, and no signal was seen in extract from wild-type tissue ( CITATION E). Chloroplasts (C) were isolated from protoplasts derived from each transgenic line, purified, and fractionated into soluble (S) and membrane (M) fractions. Equivalent volumes of each fraction were then analyzed by immunoblotting as above ( CITATION F). MSL2-GFP and MSL3-GFP were detected in purified chloroplasts and in the membrane fraction of lysed chloroplasts, but were absent from the soluble fraction. As a control for fractionation, this blot was stripped and reprobed with antibodies that recognize the large subunit of Rubisco (RBCL), a soluble protein of the chloroplast stroma. RBCL was found in the soluble fraction only ( CITATION G). The intraplastidic localization observed with MSL2-GFP and MSL3-GFP and described above appeared similar to that previously described for the AtMinE and AtMinD proteins CITATION . AtMinE and AtMinD are Arabidopsis homologs of the bacterial-division proteins MinD and MinE and are required for the proper localization of the contractile ring during plastid division CITATION . To test the hypothesis that the foci containing AtMinD or AtMinE are the same intraplastidic location that contains MSL2 and MSL3, we used particle bombardment to transiently express MSL2-YFP, MSL3-YFP, and AtMinE-CFP fusion proteins in Arabidopsis leaves. YFP signal was detected in small foci on the surface of plastids in epidermal cells transiently expressing either MSL2-YFP or MSL3-YFP ( CITATION ). In general, the signal was similar to that observed in stably transformed lines, although numerous foci (as shown in the bottom panels) were only observed in bombarded cells and are likely the result of high expression levels. MinE-CFP signal was also detected in foci within the plastid as previously described CITATION , and the CFP signal was observed to overlap with MSL2-YFP and MSL3-YFP signals.
!~MM~! Osmotic-shock assays were performed as described in CITATION except that cultures growing in LB (174 mM NaCl) to an OD 600 of approx 0.3–0.4 were diluted 1:1 in LB supplemented with 830 mM NaCl, 100 mg/ml Carbenicillin, and 2 mM IPTG to achieve a final NaCl concentration of 500 mM. These cultures were grown for an additional 2 hr, then diluted 1:500 into LB prepared with or without 500 mM NaCl, at pH 7.0 or pH 3.6, and allowed to recover at 37°C for 20 min. Cells were serially diluted 20-fold and aliquots plated on LB Carb plates (at a neutral pH) to assay viability. The sequences of oligos used for PCR genotyping, RT-PCR, cloning, and subcloning can be found in CITATION . Plants were grown on soil or on Murashige and Skoog (MS) solid medium under continuous light. Insertional mutants in the Wassilewskija background were obtained from the University of Wisconsin, Madison Arabidopsis Knockout Facility. Lines were identified as described CITATION , with the oligos MS2-WISB, MS3-WISB, and JL-202. Homozygote lines were identified by PCR genotyping (with 10490.F5/MS2-WISB and 58200.F5/MS3-WISB to amplify the wild-type alleles), and PCR products spanning the 3′ insertion junction of msl2-1 and the 5′ insertion junction of msl3-1 were sequenced to identify the insertion sites. Double-mutant lines were generated by standard crossing protocols, and double mutants were identified in the F2 generation by PCR genotyping as described above. Transgenic constructs were introduced into plants by Agrobacterium -mediated transformation with the standard floral-dip method CITATION . The MscS open reading frame was amplified from pB10b-MscS (a gift from Dennis Dougherty, Caltech) with primers MscS.F and MscS.R2, whereas the MSL3 cDNA was amplified from pENTR-MSL3 with MS3.Eco and MS3.Sal. These products were then subcloned into the HindIII and SalI or the EcoRI and SalI sites of pFLAG-CTC (Sigma). A truncated version of MSL3 containing amino acids 1–515 was amplified from pENTR-MSL3 with MS3F.Sal and MS3tR.Eco cloned into the Xho and EcoRI sites of pFLAG-CTC. The following plasmid constructs were made with Gateway technology (Invitrogen). PCR products generated as described below with Pfu polymerase (Stratagene) were cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen) to create entry vectors. The oligo pairs 10490p.F1/MS2g.R and 58200p.F1/MS3g.R were used to amplify genomic fragments containing MSL2 and MSL3 , respectively, to create pENTR-MSL2g and pENTR-MSL3g. The MSL3 and MSL2 cDNAs were amplified from cDNAs obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center at Ohio State (U13481 and U22087), with oligo pairs 10490.F1B/10490.R2 and 58200.F1B/58200.R2 to create pENTR-MSL3f and pENTR-MSL2f (see CITATION for primer sequences). pENTR-MSL2Bf was made by amplifying the additional upstream region from single-strand cDNA (made as for RT-PCR, above) with oligos 2.newATG.F and 2.newATG.R with Pfx polymerase (Invitrogen). This 480 bp fragment was then cloned into the NotI and NdeI restriction sites of pENTR-MSL2. pENTR-2Bp and pENTR-3p were made by amplifying the promoter sequence (as identified by the Arabidopsis Cis-Regulatory Element Database CITATION ) from genomic DNA, with oligo pairs 10490p.F1/.R2 and 58200p.F1/R1, respectively. pENTR-RecARed was made by fusion PCR as described CITATION with oligo pairs RecA.F/RecA.R to amplify the AtRecA transit-peptide sequence from genomic DNA and dsRed.F/dsRed.R to amplify dsRED from pDsRed-Express (Clontech). These pENTRY vectors were then used in recombination reactions with the indicated Gateway destination vectors CITATION to make complementation constructs (pBGW), C-terminal GFP fusions (pK7FWG2), GUS reporter genes (pBGWFS7), and pRecARed (pB2GW7). MSL2p::MSL2-GFP and MSL3p::MSL3-GFP were made by subcloning promoters and GFP fusion proteins from the Gateway destination vectors described above into plasmid BJ36 containing the 3′ region from octopine synthase (3′ OCS). The MSL2 promoter was cloned into the SalI/HindIII sites and the MSL3 promoter into the HindIII site of BJ36-3′ OCS. MSL2-GFP and MSL3-GFP were added at the HindII/BamHI or BamHI sites. NotI fragments containing promoters, open reading frames, and the 3′ OCS were released from BJ36 vectors and inserted into pBART for plant transformation. For particle-bombardment constructs, the AtMinE open reading frame was amplified from a first-strand cDNA synthesis reaction with MinE.F and MinE.R and cloned into pTOPO-Blunt (Invitrogen). MSL2 and MSL3 open reading frames were amplified with MSL2BF.Sal/MSL2R.Eco or MSL3F.Sal/MSL3R.Eco from pENTR-MSL2Bf and pENTR-MSL3f. SalI to EcoR1 fragments containing MinE , MSL2 , and MSL3 were then subcloned into the SalI and EcoRI sites of 35Sp::ABD2-eCFP/pCAMBIA1390 or into 35Sp::ABD2-eYFP/pCAMBIA1390 (gifts of Elison Blancaflor, the Noble Foundation) to make C-terminal CFP or YFP fusions. The pCAMBIA 1390 vector is a product of CAMBIA, Canberra, Australia. For light microscopy of chloroplasts, cauline leaves were collected and fixed in 3.5% glutaraldehyde in the dark for 60 min, placed in 0.5M EDTA (pH 9.0) and incubated at 60°C for 2–3 hr, as described in CITATION . Tissue fragments were mounted in water, and cells were released by tapping on the coverslip. Images were captured with a Zeiss Axiocam HRc digital camera and processed with Axiovision software. For plastic sections, cauline leaves from 4-week-old wild-type and msl2-1; msl3-1 plants were fixed overnight at 4°C in 4% paraformaldehyde, 1× PBS, and 0.5% glutaraldehyde (pH 7.0), washed in PBS, then infiltrated with Epon. Plastic sections (4.4 μm) were cut with a glass blade, stained with toluidine blue, and imaged as above. The same Epon-embedded tissue was used for electron microscopy. For confocal imaging of plastids, 2-week-old seedlings were grown on MS, then mounted in water or liquid MS. For imaging of amyloplasts, hand-made lifter slips were used to prevent crushing of the root-tip tissue. For lines expressing pRecARED, excitation was at 543 nm and emissions were collected with a 585–615 nm band pass (BP) filter. For imaging of MSL2-GFP and MSL3-GFP, excitation was at 488 nm and emissions were collected with a 505–530 nm BP filter (GFP) and with a 585 LP filter (chlorophyll). A Zeiss LSM 510 laser module was used with the settings described above or in figure legends, and images were captured with LSM 510 Meta software from Zeiss. Chloroplasts were purified from protoplasts derived from young, expanding rosette leaves as described CITATION , then further purified on a preformed 50% Percoll gradient. Purified chloroplasts were lysed in lysis buffer (62.5 mM Tris [pH 7.4], 10 mM MgCl 2 , and protease inhibitors) for 15 min on ice, then spun 10 min in a microfuge at 4°C to separate membrane from soluble fractions. The membrane fraction was washed a second time in lysis buffer before solubilization in lysis buffer supplemented with 0.1% SDS. Whole-cell extracts and cell-equivalent volumes from unlysed chloroplast, pellet, and supernatant fractions were separated on a 7.5% SDS-polyacrylamide gel and electroblotted to PVDF membrane. Immunoblotting was performed with a mouse anti-GFP antibody (BD Bioscience) and anti-mouse-HRP, or with an antibody raised against Chlamydomonas RBCL (courtesy of Robert Spreitzer, University of Nebraska) and anti-rabbit-HRP. Chemiluminescent detection was performed with the Pierce Pico detection reagent. Gold particles (1.5 mg) were coated with approximately 5 μg of each plasmid DNA as directed by the manufacturer (Bio-Rad). Young expanding rosette or cauline leaves from the indicated genotypes were removed from plants and pressed onto MS plates, then bombarded with the coated particles in a DuPont Biolistic PDS-1000/He gun with 450 psi pressure discs. Cells were imaged 12–16 hr after bombardment.
