!~ABS~! Functional characterization of Arabidopsis thaliana GAT1 in heterologous expression systems, i.e. Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Xenopus laevis oocytes, revealed that AtGAT1 (At1g08230) codes for an H+-driven, high affinity γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) transporter. In addition to GABA, other ω-aminofatty acids and butylamine are recognized. In contrast to the most closely related proteins of the proline transporter family, proline and glycine betaine are not transported by AtGAT1. AtGAT1 does not share sequence similarity with any of the non-plant GABA transporters described so far, and analyses of substrate selectivity and kinetic properties showed that AtGAT1-mediated transport is similar but distinct from that of mammalian, bacterial, and S. cerevisiae GABA transporters. Consistent with a role in GABA uptake into cells, transient expression of AtGAT1/green fluorescent protein fusion proteins in tobacco protoplasts revealed localization at the plasma membrane. In planta, AtGAT1 expression was highest in flowers and under conditions of elevated GABA concentrations such as wounding or senescence. 
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome contains two members of the ATF amino acid transporter gene family, At1g08230 (AtGAT1) and At5g41800, which exhibit a higher degree of homology to the proline/compatible solute transporters (ProTs) than to members of other subfamilies (Fig. 1) (CITATION, CITATION). Interestingly, AtGAT1 showed higher homology to a rice protein (OJ1402_H07.15; 62.3% amino acid identity) than to its closest Arabidopsis homolog, At5g41800 (45.8% amino acid identity). Similarly, At5g41800 showed highest homology to a partial mRNA from chickpea (Cicer arietinum AJ004959) and to two rice proteins (OJ1007_H05.2 and P0407B12.25). This is in contrast to members of the ProT subfamily, where proteins from tomato, mangrove, rice, and Arabidopsis display a higher degree of homology within a species than between species. Similar to predictions for other ATF family members, AtGAT1 and At5g41800 encode proteins with a molecular mass of 49.69 and 49.86 kDa, respectively, and 9–12 predicted transmembrane domains (CITATION). Based on the relatively low sequence identity of AtGAT1 and At5g41800 to ProTs (26–27.2% identity), we wondered whether the newly identified genes code for compatible solute transporters or represent a separate group of amino acid transporters.    [[FIGURE]] AtGAT1 Transports GABA with High Affinity—To determine whether AtGAT1 differs in its substrate specificity from members of the ProT gene family, the cDNAs of AtGAT1 (At1g08230) and At5g41800 were isolated by RT-PCR. Subsequently, AtGAT1 and At5g41800 were expressed under the control of the strong PMA1 promoter (vector pDR196) in the S. cerevisiae strain 22574d (CITATION, CITATION). The S. cerevisiae mutant 22574d carries mutations in the general amino acid (gap1), proline (put4), and GABA (uga4) permeases and therefore is unable to grow on citrulline, proline, or GABA as the sole nitrogen source. As control, strain 22574d was transformed with the expression vector pDR196 and pDR195 harboring the cDNAs of the proline/compatible solute transporter AtProT2 or of the amino acid permease AtAAP2 (CITATION, CITATION). Growth under selective conditions showed that, like AtProT2, AtGAT1 was able to mediate growth on GABA. However, AtGAT1 could not mediate growth on proline or citrulline (Fig. 2 and data not shown) and histidine was not a substrate for AtGAT1 (data not shown; strain JT16) (CITATION). This behavior distinguished AtGAT1 from all transporters of the ATF family characterized so far. In contrast, At5g41800 could not mediate growth on any of the tested substrates. Therefore, At5g41800 was not included in further functional studies.    [[FIGURE]] Previous studies described the ProTs as low affinity GABA transporters (Km, 1.7–5 mm) (CITATION, CITATION). To examine whether AtGAT1 differed in its kinetic properties, 3H-GABA uptake experiments were performed in 22574d cells expressing AtGAT1. Transport assays showed that AtGAT1 has a much higher affinity for GABA (Km 10 ± 3 μm) than any of the plant transporters characterized before (Fig. 3A). As shown for other transporters of the ATF family, transport rates increased with decreasing pH (Fig. 3B) (CITATION, CITATION). Competition experiments for 3H-GABA uptake in the presence of a 5-fold excess of competitors showed that the GABA-related compounds β-aminobutyric acid and β-alanine reduced GABA transport rates by ∼30%, whereas α-aminobutyric acid did not compete for GABA transport (Fig. 3C). In addition, compounds involved in GABA metabolism (i.e. glutamate, succinic semialdehyde, and succinate) were not competitors for AtGAT1-mediated GABA uptake. Alanine slightly reduced GABA transport rates, whereas histidine as well as compounds that were good competitors for ProT-mediated GABA transport (i.e. d- and l-proline, glycine betaine, and choline) did not reduce GABA uptake activity (CITATION). That none of the substrates tested efficiently competed for GABA uptake suggested that AtGAT1 is a highly selective, high affinity GABA transporter.  Electrophysiological Assay of AtGAT1 GABA Transport Kinetics—To determine whether weakly competing compounds were substrates of AtGAT1 and to examine the kinetic properties of AtGAT1 in more detail, substrate-induced currents were analyzed in X. laevis oocytes injected with AtGAT1 cRNA. At a membrane potential of -50 mV and a pH of 5.0, addition of 1 mm GABA to the bathing medium of AtGAT1-expressing oocytes induced inward currents ranging from 96 to 191 nA (Fig. 4B). Current amplitude was dependent on the batch of oocytes and incubation time after cRNA injection. As is commonly observed with many other electrogenic transporters expressed in X. laevis oocytes, the AtGAT1 substrate-evoked current reached a peak followed by slow decay in the presence of the substrate (Fig. 4B) (e.g. Refs. CITATION and CITATION). No GABA-evoked currents were observed in control oocytes (Fig. 4A).  Fig. 5A shows the GABA activation curve at a holding potential of -50 mV and an external proton concentration ([H+]out) of 10 μm (pH 5). The apparent affinity of AtGAT1 for GABA was 43 ± 7 μm (n = 3). Likewise, the H+ activation curve at -50 mV and 1 mm GABA was hyperbolic with a K0.5 of 440 ± 40 nm (Fig. 5D). The apparent affinity for GABA () appeared not to be voltage dependent in the range from -90 to -10 mV (Fig. 5B), whereas the maximum transport rate () increased slightly at depolarized membrane potentials (Fig. 5C).  Substrate Selectivity of AtGAT1—Uptake studies such as those shown in Fig. 3C demonstrate whether a compound can alter AtGAT1-mediated GABA transport, presumably by competing for the GABA binding site of AtGAT1. However, these competition studies do not reveal whether a tested compound is in fact a transported substrate of AtGAT1. Thus, to further examine the substrate selectivity of AtGAT1, electrophysiological assays were performed (Fig. 6). GABA, GABA analogs, and other substrates were applied at a concentration of 1 mm, whereas [H+]out was 10 μm and Vm was -50 mV (Fig. 6). An inward current evoked by a substrate was taken as H+-driven, AtGAT1-mediated substrate translocation into the cell. l-Alanine, β-aminobutyric acid, and β-alanine, which only weakly competed for GABA uptake in S. cerevisiae (see Fig. 3C), induced inward currents comparable in magnitude with that induced by GABA. Other GABA-related compounds with longer carbon chains, such as 5-aminovaleric acid, 6-aminocaproic acid, and 8-aminocaprylic acid, were also good substrates. Interestingly, the current induced by butylamine, which lacks the carboxyl group, was similar to that induced by GABA. None of these substrates induced currents in control oocytes.    [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] Similar to competition experiments using S. cerevisiae, d- and l-proline as well as glycine betaine and choline were not recognized as substrates (see Figs. 3C and 6). In addition, substrates of the GABA shunt (succinate and glutamate) did not induce currents in AtGAT1-expressing oocytes. Moreover, trigonelline, a betaine present at high concentrations in many legume seeds (CITATION), and the amino acids histidine, glutamine, and norvaline were not transported. The rigid GABA analog nipecotic acid and the amino sulfonate taurine, both substrates of neuronal GABA transporters in mouse (mGAT3 and mGAT4) (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), did not induce currents in AtGAT1-expressing oocytes.  We reasoned that the compounds that did not compete for GABA uptake in S. cerevisiae but induced currents in AtGAT1-expressing oocytes were low affinity substrates of AtGAT1. Thus, we determined the affinity of AtGAT1 for various substrates. Substrate-induced currents were measured during applications of substrates at concentrations between 5 μm and 100 mm. Currents were plotted against the substrate concentration, and curves were fitted to Equation 1. The apparent affinity of AtGAT1 for individual substrates varied by a factor of 1000 (Table 1). AtGAT1 showed the highest affinity for butylamine with a K0.5 2-fold lower than that for GABA. Moving the amino group closer to the carboxyl group (such as in β-aminobutyric acid and α-aminobutyric acid) progressively reduced the apparent affinity (see Table 1). Increasing the carbon chain backbone from GABA to 8-aminocaprylic acid only marginally affected the K0.5 values (30–80 μm). In addition, 5-aminolevulinic acid was transported with an affinity comparable with that of GABA. Reducing the carbon chain length (e.g. β-alanine) resulted in a much lower substrate affinity (K0.5 200 μm). A similar affinity was determined for 4-aminophenylacetic acid, a peptide mimic lacking a peptide bond (CITATION). For compounds with even shorter carbon chains (i.e. l-alanine), the affinity dropped even further. The apparent affinity for l-glycine and l-α-aminobutyric acid, which had been shown to induce currents in AtGAT1-expressing oocytes (Fig. 6), as well as for l-2,4-diaminobutyric acid and the dipeptide glycyl-glycine, was >10 mm. Although the K0.5 values of the different substrates varied considerably, the maximum transport rate () for all substrates remained relatively constant (±20%) (see Table 1).    [[TABLE]]   [[FIGURE]] AtGAT1 Is Localized at the Plasma Membrane—Functional complementation of the S. cerevisiae GABA transport mutant by AtGAT1 and functional expression in X. laevis oocytes showed that at least a fraction of the protein is targeted to and localized at the plasma membrane in both heterologous expression systems. To assess its cellular localization in planta, fusion proteins of AtGAT1 and GFP were transiently expressed in tobacco protoplasts under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (Fig. 7). Fluorescent images obtained by confocal laser scanning microscopy showed that the signal from the GFP-AtGAT1 fusion protein was present as a single fluorescent ring at the periphery of the protoplast, suggestive of its localization at the plasma membrane (Fig. 7A). In addition, the protoplasts showed some GFP fluorescence on internal membranes. Similar results were obtained for the AtGAT1-GFP fusion (data not shown). Free GFP localized to the cytosol (Fig. 7C). When expressed in Xenopus oocytes, both fusion proteins, AtGAT1-GFP and GFP-AtGAT1, were able to mediate GABA transport with affinities comparable with that of AtGAT1 ( was 58 ± 6 μm for AtGAT1-GFP and 36 ± 5 μm for GFP-AtGAT1; n = 3).  AtGAT1 Expression in Arabidopsis Is Induced by Wounding and during Senescence—AtGAT1 expression in Arabidopsis was extremely weak and hardly detectable by RNA gel blot analysis. Relative quantification using real-time PCR, with the actin mRNA (AtACT2) as a reference, demonstrated the highest levels of AtGAT1 expression in flowers and low expression levels in roots, leaves, and stems (Fig. 8A). Microarray analyses (CITATION) showed that in flowers AtGAT1 expression is highest in sepals, lower in petals and carpels, and very low in stamen. In agreement with our own data, only low AtGAT1 transcript levels were found in pollen (data not shown). It was shown previously that GABA accumulates under various stress conditions (CITATION). However, cold, heat, and anoxia did not significantly alter AtGAT1 mRNA levels (not shown). Mechanical wounding caused a transient increase of AtGAT1 transcript levels that dropped below control values after 24 h (Fig. 8B). A similar time course of AtGAT1 expression after wounding has been observed in microarray analyses (TAIR Accession: ExpressionSet 1007966439). Interestingly, AtGAT1 expression also increased during leaf senescence of both detached and naturally senescing leaves (Fig. 8C), corresponding to results obtained in microarray analyses (CITATION). Differences in induction during dark-induced and natural senescence might result from impaired export of compounds in detached leaves or may reflect differences in carbon:nitrogen ratio as described for other genes (CITATION). In both experiments, the increase in AtGAT1 expression correlates with an increase in GABA content in the corresponding tissue (Fig. 8C).    [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plant Material, Growth Conditions, and Stress Treatment—Arabidopsis thaliana L. ecotype Col-0 was grown in soil in a growth chamber at 22 °C/18 °C, 65% humidity, and 16 h of light. For induction of wounding response, rosette leaves of 4–5-week-old plants were wounded by scratching them with tweezers. Two 1–1.5-cm-long scratches parallel to the midrib were made, and wounded leaves were harvested 2, 4, and 24 h after wounding. Low and high temperature treatments were performed by keeping plants in the dark at 4 and 37 °C, respectively; anoxic stress was applied by submerging whole Arabidopsis plants in water. Leaves were harvested 2, 4, and 24 h after onset of the treatment. For dark induction of senescence, green leaves were excised and incubated on moistened filter paper for 3 or 6 days in the dark. Alternatively, senescence of attached leaves was assayed by harvesting two batches of yellowing leaves of different stages of senescence from the same plants. ∼20% of the leaf area was yellowing in stage I senescent leaves, whereas ∼50% of the leaf area was yellowing in stage II leaves.  Chlorophyll Extraction—Plant material was extracted three times with 80% acetone containing 1 μm KOH, and the chlorophyll content of the extract was measured spectrophotometrically (CITATION).  Determination of GABA Concentration—150–200 mg of plant material was extracted with 500 μl of a mixture of methanol:chloroform: water (12:5:3). After centrifugation, the supernatant was recovered and 188 μl of water and 125 μl of chloroform were added. The upper phase of the mixture was dried at room temperature using a speed vacuum apparatus. The pellet was dissolved in 200 μl of water and 300 μl of acetonitrile, and phases were separated by centrifugation. The supernatant was dried, dissolved in 200 μl of water, and purified using a Sep-Pak Vac 1cc C18 cartridge (Waters, Milford, MA). The eluate was dried, and GABA content was measured by high performance liquid chromatography using a modified protocol according to Bidlingmeyer et al. (CITATION).  DNA and RNA Work—The AtGAT1-cDNA was isolated by RT-PCR using primers 5′-ACTTATAAAAGTGAGTAGCACC-3′, 5′-CTCACTTTGCTTTGCATGTTC-3′ and RNA extracted from flowers of A. thaliana L. ecotype Col-0 as template. The AtGAT1-cDNA was cloned in the EcoRV site of pSK and verified by sequencing. For S. cerevisiae complementation assays the AtGAT1-cDNA was transferred into pDR196 using PstI and XhoI (CITATION). The cDNA of At5g41800 was isolated by RT-PCR using primers 5′-TATATAAATCATTCACTTGTAG-3′, 5′-TTTATGTTTTTATCACACTATC-3′ and RNA extracted from flowers of A. thaliana L. ecotype Col-0 as template. The At5g41800-cDNA was cloned in the SmaI site of pDR196 and verified by sequencing.  For translational fusions with GFP, the open reading frame of the AtGAT1 cDNA was amplified by PCR and cloned in pUC18-spGFP6 and pUC18-GFP5Tsp.4 AtGAT1-GFP fusion: 5′-CTAGCTAGCATGGGTGGAGAAGAGAGATC-3′, 5′-GAAGATCTACATCCGCAAACAACTTATAC-3′ (open reading frame cloned into SpeI/BglII site). GFP-AtGAT1 fusion: 5′-CTAGCTAGCATGGGTGGAGAAGAGAGATC-3′,5′-CCGCTCGAGTTATACATCCGCAAACAAC-3′ (open reading frame cloned into NheI/SalI site). Sequence identity of all PCR-amplified fragments was verified by sequencing.    For electrophysiological studies AtGAT1 was transferred from pDR196 to pBF1 (CITATION) using BamHI and ClaI. AtGAT1-GFP and GFP-AtGAT1 were transferred from pUC18-vectors to pBF1 using XmaI and PstI. cRNA was synthesized using the AMBION SP6 mMessage mMachine kit (Ambion, Austin, TX) following the manufacturer's instructions.  For quantification of expression, RNA was extracted using a method based on phenol extraction (CITATION) including an additional DNase I treatment. Reverse transcription was performed using the RETROscript kit (Ambion) according to the manufacturer's instructions with oligo(dT) primers and 2 μg of total RNA as template. Relative quantification using real-time PCR was performed on a LightCycler instrument (Roche Diagnostics). The FastStart DNA Master SYBR Green I kit (Roche Diagnostics) was used according to the manufacturer's instructions with MgCl2 at a final concentration of 4 mm and 10 pmol of each primer (AtGAT1: 5′-ATACCTGAAATTCAGGCAACAA-3′, 5′-TAGGTTGTAGGTATACCACAG-3′). Actin (AtAct2) was used as a reference gene (5′-ATTCAGATGCCCAGAAGTCTTGTT-3′, 5′-GAAACATTTTCTGTGAACGATTCCT-3′). AtSag12 was used as a marker for senescence (5′-CGAAGGCGGTTTAATGGATA-3′, 5′-CACCTCCTTCAATTCCAACG-3′).  Yeast Growth, Transformation, and Selection—S. cerevisiae strain 22574d (MATα ura3–1, gap1–1, put4–1, uga4–1) (CITATION) was transformed according to Dohmen et al. (CITATION), and transformants were selected on synthetic dextrose minimal medium (CITATION). To test for substrate specificity, transformants were selected on minimal medium supplemented with 20 g/liter of glucose and 1 g/liter of proline, GABA, or citrulline as sole nitrogen source.  Transport Assays—Transport assays using S. cerevisiae were done essentially as described previously (CITATION) using a final concentration of ∼2 × 108 cells/ml, 1.85–55.5 kBq 3H-GABA (Amersham Biosciences) and appropriate amounts of the respective unlabeled GABA.  Expression in Xenopus Oocytes—Stage V-VI Xenopus laevis oocytes were injected with 50 ng (50 nl) of AtGAT1 cRNA and were maintained in Barth's medium (88 mm NaCl, 1 mm KCl, 0.33 mm Ca(NO3)2, 0.41 mm CaCl2, 0.82 mm MgSO4, 2.4 mm NaHCO3, 10 mm HEPES, pH 7.4, 50 μg/ml of gentamicin, 100 μg/ml of streptomycin, and 100 units/ml of penicillin) at 18 °C for 1–3 days until used in experiments. All of the experiments were performed at 21 ± 1 °C. Experiments were performed in a NaCl buffer containing (in mm): 100 NaCl, 2 KCl, 1 CaCl2, 1 MgCl2, 10 PIPES, and 10 HOMOPIPES, pH 7.4. Substrates were added to the buffer solutions as indicated, and the necessary pH adjustments were made. All reagents were purchased from Sigma.  Oocytes were voltage clamped by using the Warner Oocyte Clamp (OC-725C; Warner Instrument Corp., Hamden, CT). In the recording experimental chamber, oocytes were initially stabilized in the NaCl buffer, and the composition of the bath was changed as indicated. In all of the experiments, the reference electrodes were connected to the experimental oocyte chamber via agar bridges (3% agar in 3 m KCl). For continuous holding current measurements, the oocyte membrane potential (Vm) was clamped at -50 mV unless otherwise indicated. Currents were low pass filtered at 100 Hz (LPF 8; Warner Instrument Corp.), sampled at 10 Hz (pCLAMP 8.1; Axon Instruments, Union City, CA). Substrate-induced currents were determined by subtracting the base-line current present in NaCl buffer from the evoked current observed after addition of the substrate.  The effects of substrate concentration on the steady-state kinetics were determined by non-linear curve fitting of the induced currents (I) to the Michaelis-Menten equation as shown in Equation 1, where S is the substrate, is the maximal substrate-induced current, and is the substrate concentration at half (half-maximal concentration). Curve fittings were performed by using SigmaPlot (SPSS Science, Chicago, IL).  Transient Expression in Protoplasts—Transient expression of GFP fusion proteins in tobacco protoplasts was done as described previously (CITATION), and the samples were examined by using a SP2 AOBS confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems, Wetzlar, Germany). Filter settings were 500–520 nm for GFP and 628–768 nm for chlorophyll epifluorescence detection. 
