!~ABS~! Empfindlicher im Dunkelroten Licht 1 (EID1) is an F-box protein that functions as a negative regulator in phytochrome A (phyA)-specific light signalling. F-box proteins are components of SCF ubiquitin ligase complexes that target proteins for degradation in the proteasome. Here we present further characterization of EID1 at the expression level, and show that it regulates photomorphogenesis in seedlings, rosette leaf development and flowering. Data on transcript expression patterns indicate that EID1 is expressed during all stages of Arabidopsis development and exhibits no light response. Microscope studies demonstrate that EID1 is localized to the nucleus, where it can form speckles under continuous far-red light that resemble clastosomes. To characterize the composition and formation of SCFEID1 complexes further, we used two-hybrid and bridge assays in yeast and in planta. EID1 interacts specifically with several Arabidopsis Skp1-like (ASK) proteins and Cullin1 to form stable dimeric and trimeric complexes. Our results support a two-step association process in which the F-box protein binds first to the ASK adaptor, forming a unit which then associates with the catalytic core of the SCF complex. Finally, our data indicate that the EID1 target interaction domain is composed of two independent modules.
!~RES~! Transgenic ProEID1:GUS lines were used to examine the spatial expression pattern of the gene during Arabidopsis development. In seedlings, GUS expression was detectable in the upper parts of the hypocotyl and in the cotyledons (Figure 1a). All vegetative tissues of adult plants also exhibited GUS activity (primary leaves, rosette leaves, cauline leaves and stems; Figure 1b,c,e). GUS staining was also obtained in flower buds (Figure 1c); in the peduncle; in sepals, anthers and carpels; but not in petals (Figure 1f). In carpels, strong staining was detectable mainly in the style, whereas the ovary showed only a weak and the stigma no expression of the ProEID1:GUS construct. Siliques exhibited strong GUS expression in the whole organ (Figure 1d). As a control, organ-specific EID1 transcript levels were analysed by RNA-blot experiments. All organs expressing the ProEID1:GUS construct also accumulated detectable levels of EID1 transcripts (Figure 1g). [[FIGURE]] EID1 transcript accumulation was also analysed under different light conditions by RNA-blot experiments. None of the light treatments used had an influence on EID1 expression (Figure 1h). To analyse the sub-cellular localization pattern, an EID1–GFP fusion protein was expressed in eid1-3 mutant plants under the control of a 35S promoter. The construct introduced rescued the mutant phenotype, which clearly indicates that the EID1–GFP fusion is functional in transgenic lines (Figure S1). Subcellular distribution was investigated in cells of the upper part of the hypocotyl in 3-day-old, dark-grown seedlings that were kept in darkness or irradiated with continuous red and far-red light. These cells were chosen for localization studies because ProEID1:GUS expression was detected in the upper part of the hypocotyl (Figure 1a). Lines showing weak GFP fluorescence were selected for further microscopic analyses to reduce strong background staining and to avoid artefacts that might be caused by overexpression of the fusion protein. The EID1–GFP fusion protein was localized exclusively to the nucleus, where it exhibited a diffuse staining in dark-grown seedlings (Figure 2a) and in seedlings treated with continuous red light (Figure 2b). In contrast, large speckles were formed after prolonged irradiation with continuous far-red light (Figure 2c–e). Normally one or two speckles were detectable in each nucleus that localized close to the nucleoli. Speckles became visible after about 4–6 h irradiation, and remained very stable even after transferring darkness (data not shown). Nucleoli exhibited no staining under all light conditions tested. [[FIGURE]] Previous results with yeast two-hybrid assays and pull-down experiments showed that EID1 interacts with ASK1 and ASK2. Thus EID1 appears to form SCF complexes, which ubiquitinate positively acting light-signalling intermediates (CITATION; CITATION). To characterize further the composition of putative SCFEID1 complexes, we performed yeast two-hybrid analyses with 19 ASK genes. Expression levels of EID1 and ASK proteins were determined by immunoblot analyses using antibodies against fused activation or binding domains (data not shown). After mating, yeast growth was analysed on strong (−LWA) selection media (Figure 3a). As shown previously (CITATION), EID1 interacts with ASK1 and ASK2. Additional interactions were observed with ASK4, ASK11, ASK13 and ASK14 (Figure 3a). These interactions depended completely on the presence of the F-box domain, because yeast growth was lost when a deleted version of EID1 (ΔF-EID1) was used in the experiment (Figure 3a). These data clearly indicate that complex formation between the EID1 F-box domain and the different ASKs is highly specific, even though all ASK proteins exhibit strong sequence similarities. [[FIGURE]] The yeast mating system was also used to analyse the interactions between the Arabidopsis CUL1 (AtCUL1) and ASK proteins. Interactions were observed with a subset of ASK proteins, including ASK1/2/3/4, ASK10/11, ASK13/14/15/16 and ASK18/19 (Figure 3b). In contrast to the results obtained with EID1 and the different ASKs, yeast growth was observed only on the weak selection medium (−LWH). Thus the interaction between ASKs and AtCUL1 appears to be weak compared with complex formation between ASKs and the EID1 F-box protein. To examine the formation of trimeric complexes between AtCUL1, ASK proteins and EID1, we performed a bridge assay with AD-EID1 and BD-AtCUL1 fusion proteins expressed in yeast, together with all 19 ASK proteins. Stable trimeric complexes were observed when ASK1, ASK4, ASK11 and ASK13 function as adaptors for EID1 (Figure 3c). Remarkably, yeast strains transformed with these proteins were able to grow even on strong selection medium (−LWA) after 5 days, which is in striking contrast to the results observed for two-hybrid analyses with AtCUL1 and ASK proteins alone. Thus the presence of EID1 appears to stabilize the interaction between Cullin and respective ASK adaptor proteins. When ASK2 was used as a bridging component, an interaction could be observed only on weak selection medium (−LWH). This result indicates that a trimeric complex was formed, but is only weakly stable in yeast. Interestingly, although ASK14 is able to interact with EID1 and AtCUL1 proteins in yeast two-hybrid assays, no complex formation was detected in the bridge assay. Yeast is a heterologous system in which some factors can be missing for complex formation. In order to study protein–protein interactions in planta, a BiFC system was established in our laboratory (CITATION). This method relies on expression of the two proteins of interest as translational fusions either to the non-fluorescing N-terminal (YN) or C-terminal (YC) halves of yellow fluorescent protein (YFP). Only when the YFP halves are brought together by interaction of the fused proteins they can form a functional YFP fluorophore, which can be detected with standard epifluorescence microscopy equipment (CITATION; CITATION). A set of vectors was generated to express proteins fused with the N-terminal (YN) or the C-terminal (YC) part of the YFP after transient transformation of plant cells using particle bombardment. EID1, AtCUL1 and all 19 ASK genes were cloned into these vectors and introduced into etiolated mustard seedlings. Mustard seedlings were chosen because of the high transformation efficiency, the well known light responses in this system, and the close evolutionary relation to Arabidopsis (CITATION). We first analysed protein interactions between the 19 ASK proteins and EID1 in dark-grown mustard seedlings. A clear YFP signal was visible only in the nucleus when EID1 was co-transformed with ASK1, ASK2, ASK4, ASK9, ASK11, ASK13, ASK14 and ASK15 (Figure 4a and Figure S2a). These results clearly confirm the interactions obtained in the yeast two-hybrid system. Furthermore, two additional ASK proteins (ASK9 and ASK15) were able to form complexes with EID1 in planta. These new interactions might be due to protein modifications, or to the presence of additional factors that are absent in yeast. Control experiments with the F-box deletion construct of EID1 again demonstrated that the interaction with ASK proteins in the BiFC system depends strictly on the presence of an F-box domain (Figure 4a). [[FIGURE]] To test the interaction between ASK1 and AtCUL1 in planta, we co-transformed mustard seedlings with YN-ASK1 and YC–AtCUL1 constructs. Only a weak signal became visible (Figure 4b). This result is in good agreement with the weak interaction observed between ASK1 and AtCUL1 in yeast two-hybrid assays. The intensity of the YFP signal increased strongly when an EID1–CFP (cyan-fluorescent protein) fusion construct was co-transformed together with YN-ASK1 and YC–AtCUL1 (Figure 4b). BiFC was also used to analyse interactions within the SCFEID1 complexes. EID1 and AtCUL1 were fused to the YN and YC halves and co-transformed into etiolated mustard seedlings. Strikingly, only a very weak YFP signal was observed (Figure 4b). One explanation for this would be a low level of SKP1-like proteins in mustard seedlings. Therefore we analysed ASK1-like accumulation through immunoblot experiments. A strong band was visible with protein extracts from mustard, whereas no cross-reaction was detectable with yeast extract (Figure S2b). PCR amplification with ASK1-specific primers and sequencing of the generated fragment indicated that a protein, SSK1 (Sinapis Skp1-like), which is highly similar (78% identity, 98% similarity) to ASK1, exists in the mustard genome (data not shown). Another explanation would be a weak or no interaction between SSK1 and EID1. Therefore we tested the interaction between these two proteins using the BiFC system. A strong YFP signal was observed when YN-SSK1 and YC-EID1 were co-transformed into mustard seedlings (Figure S2c). These results suggest that most ASK-like proteins are already engaged in protein interactions and are no longer available for complex formation with the transformed YN–EID1 and YC–AtCUL1. To test this hypothesis, we co-transformed a CFP–ASK1 fusion construct into mustard seedlings, together with YN–EID1 and YC–AtCUL1 constructs. A strong YFP signal became detectable, which shows that a trimeric complex can be formed when all three components are co-expressed (Figure 4b). Thus EID1, ASK1 and AtCUL1 can form trimeric complexes in planta, and the stability of this complex is enhanced strongly when the F-box protein and an ASK adaptor are co-expressed. We also used the BiFC system to analyse SCFEID1 complex formation involving different ASK proteins in planta. We co-transformed different CFP–ASK fusion constructs into mustard seedlings together with YN–EID1 and YC–CUL1 constructs. A strong YFP signal was detected when ASK2, ASK11 or ASK14 were used as adaptors (Figure 4c and Figure S2d). These results show that other ASK proteins can form SCF complexes in planta. To learn more about the structure of EID1 proteins, we performed a databank search using the Arabidopsis EID1 cDNA sequence. Expressed sequence tags (ESTs) with a high degree of similarity were used to predict the sequences of the respective proteins. The deduced protein sequences were aligned using the ClustalW program. In total, 14 EID1-like sequences were identified that carry an F-box (Figure S3a) and a leucine-zipper (L-ZIP) domain (Figure 5a). Both domains are separated by a variable motif of low structural complexity, mainly consisting of Pro, Ser and Ala residues (Figure S3b). [[FIGURE]] The EID1 L-ZIP domain shows a very high degree of conservation in dicotyledonous and monocotyledonous species (Figure 5a). The L-ZIP has a unique amino acid sequence, which appears to be specific for EID1 proteins. The second heptad motif always starts with the amino acid sequence Cys-Pro-Gly-Leu. The combination of Pro and Gly residues is quite unusual, because it should disturb the α-helical structure of the domain, which is thought to be necessary for the formation of an L-ZIP and the interaction between two L-ZIP domains (CITATION). GST pull-down experiments and analyses with the yeast two-hybrid system did not show any interaction between EID1 monomers (data not shown). Thus the EID1 L-ZIP probably does not lead to the formation of dimers or higher-order aggregates of the protein. Six annotated ESTs also exhibited a high degree of similarity to the carboxy-terminal part of EID1. In all these sequences, the L-ZIP domain is followed by two highly variable PEST domains (Figure S3c) that are interrupted by a highly conserved motif (WSL motif; Figure 5b), which appears to be specific for EID1 proteins. All sequences also carry a stretch of basic amino acids (Figure S3d) that functions as a nuclear localization sequence in EID1 (CITATION). The region between the F-box domain and the nuclear localisation signal seems to be unique for EID1 proteins, because no other proteins with a similar domain structure have been identified in the databases. The domain at the carboxyl terminus is also highly conserved between EID1 proteins (Figure S3c). Similar sequences have been identified in three additional Arabidopsis genes, an EST of the gymnosperm Pinus taeda, and an EST of the moss Physcomitrella patens (Figure 5c). The proteins encoded by the Arabidopsis genes also carry an F-box-like domain at their amino terminus (Figure S3e), but lack the L-ZIP domain and the WSL motif. Because of their similarities to EID1, these proteins were called EID1-like proteins (EDL) 1–3, and the respective domain was named the ELP domain. To isolate additional eid1 alleles, T-DNA lines of the Versailles collection were screened under continuous weak far-red light (140 nmol m−2 sec−1) that does not induce photomorphogensis in the respective Wassilewskija (WS) wild type. Two novel alleles were identified. The eid1-7 allele has a small deletion in the WSL motif that leads to an extension of 30 aa in a wrong reading frame and a precocious termination of the protein (Figure 5d). The phenotype of the eid1-8 allele is caused by a deletion of two base pairs. The deletion leads to a frame shift resulting in the addition of four artificial amino acids and a precocious termination inside the ELP domain (Figure 5d). Together with the new alleles, a total of five different mutant lines are now available in the WS background (CITATION; CITATION; this study). In the eid1-3 allele, one base pair was inserted at the 3′ end of the reading frame. The insertion results in the replacement of the last 14 aa of the ELP domain by 18 artificial residues. The eid1-4 plants carry a T-DNA insertion that led to rearrangements in the structure of chromosome 4 around the EID1 gene. Therefore this allele was excluded from further analyses. The exchange of an A by a G nucleotide in eid1-5 created a stop codon at the first Trp residue of the WSL domain (Figure 5d). In former screenings, we could isolate two additional eid1 alleles from a phyB-5 mutant in the Landsberg erecta (Ler) ecotype. The eid1-1 and eid1-2 alleles were back-crossed into the Ler wild-type background to analyse their influence on light responses in the presence of intact phyB. The eid1-1 allele carries a point mutation that created a stop codon in front of the L-ZIP domain. In the eid1-2 allele, a Cys residue replaces the conserved Gly residue in the c position of the second heptad repeat (CITATION; CITATION). The eid1-6 mutant was isolated from a Columbia wild type (CITATION; CITATION). Its phenotype is caused by a deletion and precocious termination of the protein downstream of the WSL motif. In combination, the different eid1 alleles form a nearly complete series of deletions of putative EID1 protein–protein interaction domains, identified by sequence analyses. To analyse the effect of the different alleles on light regulation, fluence rate response curves were measured for hypocotyl elongation under continuous red and far-red light. Under continuous red light, a minimum curve was obtained that is typical for most of the eid1 alleles (Figure 6a). The shape of the curve is probably caused by a combination of extremely increased light sensitivity at low fluence rates, and the light-induced degradation of phyA at higher light intensities (CITATION; CITATION). With eid1-2 seedlings, no increase in red light sensitivity was detectable compared with its Ler background. The eid1-5, eid1-7, eid1-8 and eid1-6 alleles exhibited an intermediate phenotype, whereby eid1-5 showed the weakest and eid1-6 the strongest effect. The greatest increase in red-light sensitivity was obtained for eid1-1 and eid1-3 (Figure 6a). [[FIGURE]] Under continuous far-red light, differences between the eid1 alleles were less pronounced. Again, the eid1-2 allele showed the weakest, and the eid1-1 and eid1-3 alleles the strongest, influence on light regulation of hypocotyl elongation (Figure 6b). Because EID1 also showed strong expression in adult plants, we decided to analyse phytochrome-dependent light responses during later stages of development. The vegetative growth of plants is very often strongly influenced by the shading from neighbouring leaves. Shading by the chlorophyll of canopy leaves leads to a strong reduction of blue- and red-light intensities, whereas far-red light can easily pass through the leaves. This relative increase in the proportion of far-red light can be sensed by the phytochrome system (CITATION; CITATION). To mimic canopy shade, plants were grown under continuous white light supplemented with strong far-red light. Petiole length of the largest rosette leaf was determined after 2 weeks. Because of the big differences in leaf shape between different ecotypes, we restricted our analyses to alleles in the WS background. Under far-red light-enriched white light, wild-type plants developed the longest petioles. Rosette leaves of eid1-5 and eid1-7 plants exhibited the greatest reduction in petiole length, whereas eid1-3 and eid1-8 plants had an intermediate phenotype (Figure 7). These data indicate that complete loss of the ELP domain appears to result in a strong effect on rosette leaf development. [[FIGURE]] Flower induction is another response in adult plants that can be regulated by the phytochrome system. Because of the light-induced degradation of phyA during the day and its re-accumulation the following night, light-induced flower induction triggered by this photoreceptor type becomes most effective when the light treatment is given after several hours in darkness, or at the end of the night (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore we performed so-called night-break experiments to analyse phyA-induced flowering in different eid1 alleles and their respective wild types. For the night-break experiments plants were grown under short-day conditions (8 h white light/16 h darkness), which normally lead to a delay in flowering of Arabidopsis, a facultative long-day plant. To induce flowering, the night phase between days 14 and 15 was interrupted once by 4 h far-red light after 6 h darkness. After the night break, plants were again kept under short-day conditions until the onset of flowering. One single night break with strong far-red light clearly reduced the number of leaves until flowering in Ler, whereas no response was seen with weak far-red light (Figure 8a). The number of leaves until flowering did not change in the phyA-201 mutant, even on treatment with strong far-red light. This result demonstrates that a functional phyA photoreceptor is necessary for detection of the far-red light night break. The eid1-1 mutant exhibited increased sensitivity towards night breaks: a further reduction in leaf number was obtained, even with weak far-red light. The eid1-2 allele also shows increased light sensitivity in night-break experiments, but compared with eid1-1 it appears to respond less sensitively to weak far-red light (Figure 8a). [[FIGURE]] Compared with Ler plants, the WS ecotype responded more sensitively to night breaks. Both ecotypes developed around the same number of leaves until flowering under short-day conditions, but the leaf number of WS plants became significantly reduced, even at fluence rates of 1.2 μmol m−2 sec−1 (Figure 8b). Under short-day conditions, all WS eid1 alleles flowered with about the same number of leaves as seen with wild-type plants that received one single night break with strong far-red light. Thus eid1 mutant lines in the WS background permanently behave like plants that have already received a far-red light night break. Additional night breaks had only a weak influence on flowering in some of the eid1 alleles in the WS background. Under short-day conditions, the number of leaves until flowering was clearly increased in Col compared with Ler and WS plants. Col plants did not show a clear response toward a single far-red light night break (Figure 8c). The same observation was made with the eid1-6 allele. Thus the Col ecotype appears to be distinct from the early flowering Ler and WS ecotypes with respect to the night-break response on flowering.
!~MM~! Screening for novel eid1 alleles in T-DNA lines was performed as described by CITATION. T-DNA lines were obtained directly from INRA (Versailles, France; CITATION). To check for mutations in the EID1 gene, genomic DNA was amplified by PCR using two different primer pairs: 5′-AACAGTTAAGACTATTCCCGGTTTACGCG-3′ (EID1N-F) together with 5′-GTTTTGATCGGGACCTAGCTCACGTTCTA-3′; and 5′-CTCGCTGTTTGTTGTCCTGGTCTCTTCC-3′ together with 5′-TCCTGTCCAGAAAGTAAGAAGAAGGTGCC-3′ (EID1C-R). DNA fragments were sequenced directly. A DNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) was used for extraction of genomic DNA. For physiological analyses, the following ecotypes and photomorphogenic mutants of Arabidopsis thaliana were used: Columbia-7 (Col); Wassilewskija (WS); Landsberg erecta (Ler); phyA-201 (Ler background, CITATION); eid1-1, eid1-2 (both in a Ler background); eid1-3, eid1-5, eid1-7, eid1-8 (all ecotype WS); and eid1-6 (ecotype Col-7). All seeds were propagated in a phytochamber (CITATION). A 874-bp fragment of the EID1 promoter was isolated from the BAC clone T14P8 using BglII and NcoI restriction sites. The fragment was cloned into the pGPTVII. Bar plant transformation vector in front of a uidA (GUS) cassette (CITATION). To generate the P35S:phyA(eid4):GFP fusion construct, we used a modified EID1 cDNA in which the stop codon was replaced by a SmaI restriction site (CITATION). The mutated cDNA was introduced in front of the GFP cassette of a modified pPCVB vector (CITATION) using internal BamHI and SmaI restriction sites. Arabidopsis transformation was carried out as described by CITATION. Plants exhibiting a 3:1 segregation for the Hygromycin or Basta selection marker were used to isolate homozygous lines. All data were verified using at least four independent transgenic lines. Mustard (Sinapis alba L.) seeds were sown on four layers of moist filter paper in Plexiglass boxes and cultivated for 4 days in darkness at 25°C. For transformation and BiFC experiments, etiolated seedlings were fixed to standard glass microscope slides with surgical adhesive (B-400 Secure Adhesive; Factor II Inc., Lakeside, AZ, USA). The split-YFP and CFP constructs (5 μg of each plasmid) were introduced into mustard hypocotyl cells with gold particles, as described previously (CITATION). After transformation, mustard seedlings were placed vertically in sterilized water and kept at 25°C in darkness for 6–12 h prior to microscope analysis. For epifluorescence and light microscopy, mustard seedlings were analysed with an Axioskop II microscope (Zeiss, Oberkochem, Germany). Excitation and detection of fluorophores were performed with specific CFP (excitation. D 436/20; beam splitter 455 DCLP; emission D 480/40) and YFP (HQ 500/20; beam splitter Q 515 LP; em. HQ 535/30) filter sets (AHF Analysentechnik, Tübingen, Germany). Representative cells were recorded with a digital Axiocam camera system controlled by the axiovision software (Zeiss). GUS assays were performed as described by CITATION. Analysis of fluorescent proteins was done using epifluorescence and light microscopy. Mustard and Arabidopsis seedlings were analysed with an Axioskop II microscope. Seedlings of transgenic lines were transferred to glass slides and the nuclei were searched under dim-green safe light; only the first pictures taken (with a digital Axiocam camera system) are presented. Excitation and detection of the fluorophore GFP was performed with a GFP-filter set (AHF Analysentechnik). Northern blots were prepared according to standard procedures using 10 μg total RNA and Duralon-UV membranes (Stratagene Europe, Amsterdam, the Netherlands). A PCR fragment (EID1N-F together with EID1C-R) spanning the complete EID1 gene was used as a probe. The probe was labelled with the Megaprime DNA-labelling system (Amersham, Freiburg, Germany) using α-P32-dGTP (Amersham). Pre-hybridization, hybridization, washing and detection were carried out as described by CITATION. The membrane was washed twice with 2 × SSC/0.1% SDS, and twice with 0.1 × SSC/0.1% SDS at 68°C for 15 min. Sequences homologous to Arabidopsis EID1 were isolated from the EST database using the blastn program at the National Center for Biotechnology Information (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST) (CITATION). The following ESTs were used for further analyses: Brassica rapa, BG543728; Gossypium raimondii, CO101979 and CO120988; Eschscholzia californica, CK768171; Poncirus trifolia, CV710915 and CV710914; Solanum tuberosum, BE922967 and BG097849; Lycopersicon esculentum, BI928650; Mesembryanthemum cristallinum, BE577483; Vitis aestivalis, CF355442; Malus domestica, CN937982; Ipomea nil, BJ558627; Populus balsamifera, CV230395; Glycine max, CX704925 and BG551463; Lotus corniculatus, AV427256; Allium cepa, CF444896; Pinus taeda EDL, CO16404; Physcomitrella patens EDL, CN937981. EST DNA sequences were translated using the wingene 1.0 translation tool (CITATION). Protein sequences of EDL1 (At5g15440), EDL2 (At5g39360) and EDL3 (At3g63060) were taken from the MIPS Arabidopsis protein database (http://mips.gsf.de/proj/thal/db/search/search_frame.html) (CITATION). Alignments were done using ClustalW ver. 1.82 at the European Bioinformatics Institute (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/clustalw/index.html#) (CITATION) and were manually adjusted as needed. Default values were used to run all programs. Yeast two-hybrid and bridge assays were performed using Saccharomyces cerevisiae haploid strains PJ69-4a and PJ69-4 alpha (MATa/alpha, trp1-901, leu2-3, −112, ura3-52, his3-200, gal4Δ, gal80Δ, LYS::GAL1-HIS3, GAL2-ADE2, met2::GAL7-lacZ) (CITATION). The 19 ASK, EID1 and AtCUL1 genes were cloned into pENTR vectors with Gateway recombination sites. A Gateway cassette Rf was introduced into yeast two-hybrid vectors pGADT7 and pGBT9 (Clontech, Heidelberg, Germany) and yeast expression vector pVT102-U (gift of Klaus Harter, Tübingen, Germany). Recombination between pENTR vectors and destination vectors were performed according to Invitrogen's instructions (Invitrogen, Karlsruhe, Germany). In two-hybrid experiments, all 19 ASK proteins were expressed as GAL4 activation-domain (AD) fusion proteins, whereas EID1, ΔFEID1 (a EID1 protein deleted for the F-box domain) and AtCUL1 were expressed as GAL4 DNA binding-domain (BD) fusions. In bridge-assay experiments, EID1 and AtCUL1 were expressed as AD and BD fusion proteins, whereas the 19 ASKs were expressed from the pVT102-U vector. PJ69-4a strain was transformed with ASK–AD fusion constructs, or co-transformed with EID1-AD and ASK (pVT102-U) constructs in bridge assays. The PJ69-4 alpha strain was transformed with BD fusion constructs. The yeast two-hybrid and bridge analysis were performed using cross-mating assays, as described elsewhere (CITATION). In two-hybrid experiments, diploid yeasts were selected on synthetic defined (SD)/-Leu/-Trp (SD-LW) medium, whereas weak and strong interactions were selected on SD/-Leu/-Trp/-His (-LWH) and SD/-Leu/-Trp/-Ade (-LWH) media, respectively. In bridge-assay experiments, diploid yeasts were selected on SD/-Leu/-Trp/-Ura (-LWU) medium, whereas weak and strong interactions were selected on SD/-Leu/-Trp/-Ura/-His (-LWUH) and SD/-Leu/-Trp/-Ura/-Ade (-LWUA) media, respectively. Fluence rate-response curves for hypocotyl elongation were determined as described by CITATION. Hypocotyl lengths were determined after 4 days’ continuous irradiation. For light treatments, modified Leitz Prado 500-W universal projectors (Leitz, Wetzlar, Germany) were used as light sources with Osram Xenophot longlife lamps (Osram, Berlin, Germany). Red light was obtained by passing the light beam through a 672-nm DIL interference filter (Schott, Mainz, Germany). Far-red light treatments were performed with a 719-nm DEPIL interference filter (Schott). Hypocotyl length was measured manually with a ruler. All data represent the mean of at least 40 seedlings analysed in at least two independent experiments. For measurements of petiole length, seeds were sown on soil. For stratification, seeds were transferred to darkness at 8°C for 3 days. Plants were grown under continuous white light (4× Osram L36W/25 + 2× Philips TLD36W/15 fluorescence bulbs; 40 μmol m−2 sec−1) at 25°C for 2 days to complete germination. After 2 days, white light was supplemented with extreme far-red light (40 μmol m−2 sec−1) obtained from the modified Leitz Prado projectors described above, in combination with 8-mm-thick RG9 cut-off filters (Schott; λ1/2 = 756 nm; peak emission at 760 nm). Plants were harvested after 3 weeks, spread on 2% water agar, and photographed with a size standard using a Nikon COOLPIX 995 digital camera (Nikon GmbH, Düsseldorf, Germany). Photos were printed at increased magnification, actual lengths were determined with a ruler, and the real petiole length calculated using the mean of petiole length measurements together with the results obtained for the standard. All data represent the mean of at least 20 plants analysed in two independent experiments. For determination of flowering time, plants were sown on soil. Stratification was performed as described above. After stratification, plants were grown in a phytochamber (CITATION) under short-day conditions (8 h white light followed by 16 h darkness) for 14 days. In the night from day 14 to 15, plants received one far-red light night break (6 h darkness followed by 4 h far-red light and again 6 h darkness). Far-red light was obtained from a 715-nm DAL interference filter with the Leitz Prado projector equipment described above. After the night break, plants were kept under short-day conditions until the onset of flowering. Leaf numbers were determined counting all leaves on the main stem. All data represent the mean of nine to 12 plants in the case of Ler and Col, and six to 15 plants for WS lines analysed in two independent experiments. For statistical analysis, data were subjected to one-way anova by the Holm–Sidak method using the sigmastat 3.1 statistical tool (Sigma, Munich, Germany).
