!~ABS~! Plant cells frequently undergo endoreduplication, a process in which chromosomal DNA is successively duplicated in the absence of mitosis. It has been proposed that endoreduplication is regulated at its entry by mitotic cyclin-dependent kinase activity. However, the regulatory mechanisms for its termination remain unclear, although plants tightly control the ploidy level in each cell type. In the process of searching for regulatory factors of endoreduplication, the promoter of an Arabidopsis thaliana cyclin A gene, CYCA2;3, was revealed to be active in developing trichomes during the termination period of endoreduplication as well as in proliferating tissues. Taking advantage of the situation that plants encode highly redundant cyclin A genes, we were able to perform functional dissection of CYCA2;3 using null mutant alleles. Null mutations of CYCA2;3 semidominantly promoted endocycles and increased the ploidy levels achieved in mature organs, but they did not significantly affect the proportion of cells that underwent endoreduplication. Consistent with this result, expression of the CYCA2;3–green fluorescent protein fusion protein restrained endocycles in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, a mutation in the destruction box of CYCA2;3 stabilized the fusion protein in the nuclei and enhanced the restraint. We conclude that CYCA2;3 negatively regulates endocycles and acts as a key regulator of ploidy levels in Arabidopsis endoreduplication.
!~RES~! In the process of identifying cyclins that are involved in endoreduplication, we found that the promoter of CYCA2;3 is active in trichomes. Histochemical analysis using the Escherichia coli β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene showed that a 2.4-kb DNA region upstream of the CYCA2;3 initiation codon exhibits strong promoter activity, preferentially in developing trichomes, trichome socket cells, root and shoot meristems, vascular systems, and stomata guard cells, and weak activity in many other tissues, including developing leaf epidermis (Figures 1A to 1D and 1O to 1Q). In reproductive organs, the styles, pedicels, and bases and vascular systems of seedpods showed strong GUS activity (Figures 1E and 1F). In developing trichomes, relatively stronger GUS activity than in the surrounding cells was not observed at stage 2 (Figures 1G, 1H, and the left half of 1L; stalk emergence and expansion [the stage definitions are according to CITATION]) but became evident during the progression of stage 3 (Figures 1I to 1K; formation of branch structures). GUS activity was evident also at stage 4 (the right half of Figures 1L and 1M; expansion of the stalk and branches, which have blunt tips) and then gradually disappeared as the trichome matured (Figure 1N). This temporal expression pattern during trichome development is similar to that of CDKA;1 (CITATION). Assuming that CYCA2;3 is involved in regulating the endoreduplication of trichome cells, it is likely to function in the termination, but not the initiation, of endoreduplication, as developing Arabidopsis trichomes undergo three of four endocycles before stage 2 and complete the final one at stage 3 (CITATION). To investigate the function of CYCA2;3 in plant developmental processes, we identified loss-of-function mutants of the gene. The lines SALK_086463 and SALK_092515 (ecotype Columbia) were obtained from the ABRC. PCR using genomic DNA as a template revealed that SALK_086463 and SALK_092515 have T-DNA insertions at positions ∼100 and 400 bp downstream of the CYCA2;3 initiation codon in the first and second exons, respectively (Figure 2A). RT-PCR using total RNA prepared from homozygous mutant plants amplified no transcripts corresponding to an internal region of the CYCA2;3 protein in either line (Figure 2C), indicating that both lines are null alleles of CYCA2;3. Therefore, we further analyzed SALK_086463 as a representative loss-of-function mutant unless indicated otherwise. [[FIGURE]] Homozygous mutant plants [CYCA2;3(−/−)] did not show any phenotype with morphology or growth rates obviously different from those of the wild type. However, the nuclei in trichomes of the mutant plants were larger than those of wild-type trichomes (Figure 2D). The proportion of nuclei with large projection areas was higher in the mutant than in the wild type (e.g., 23.0% of mutant nuclei and 8.0% of wild-type nuclei showed relative projection areas > 2.0). Moreover, the distribution pattern of mutant nuclei exhibited an additional peak at a projection area position larger than the major peak. Because it is thought that the major and additional peaks correspond to trichomes with ploidy levels of 32C and 64C, respectively, this result strongly suggests that the mutant contains a higher proportion of 64C trichomes than the wild type. In addition to the enlarged nuclei, the proportion of trichomes with four branches was significantly higher and that of three-branch trichomes was significantly lower in the mutant than in the wild type (Table 1). This observation supports the idea that the mutant trichomes have higher ploidy levels than wild-type trichomes, as the branch number of Arabidopsis trichomes is thought to be positively correlated with the ploidy level (CITATION). Branch Numbers of Wild-Type and CYC2;3(−/−) Trichomes To further investigate the effect of this mutation on ploidy, we analyzed the ploidy distribution in cotyledons (4 DAG), roots (4 DAG), and first leaves (14 DAG) using flow cytometry (Figures 2E to 2G). The proportion of 2C cells was not significantly affected by the mutation in any examined organs. However, the mutation significantly increased the proportion of cells with a ploidy levels of 16C or higher (i.e., the proportions for the wild type and the mutant were 28.4 and 44.1% in cotyledons, 27.5 and 33.7% in roots, and 6.7 and 31.7% in first leaves, respectively). This ploidy phenotype was analyzed in more detail in a time-course experiment with developing first leaves (Figure 3). The proportions of 2C and 4C cells were lower and higher, respectively, in the mutant than in the wild type during a relatively early period of leaf development (8 and 9 d after sowing), when cells with a ploidy level of 8C or higher were not evident. During leaf development, 8C, 16C, and 32C cells became evident and increased in proportion earlier in the mutant than in the wild type, with the higher ploidy levels showing greater time differences between the mutant and the wild type. The proportion of 4C cells decreased earlier in the mutant. In late stages (≥20 d after sowing), the mutant leaves showed almost the same proportions of 2C and 4C cells, a lower proportion of 8C cells, and higher proportions of 16C and 32C cells compared with wild-type leaves. These results indicate that the first endocycle occurs earlier and that subsequent endocycles succeed faster in mutant leaves than in wild-type leaves, although the proportion of cells that underwent endoreduplication during leaf development was the same. [[FIGURE]] In fully expanded mutant cotyledons (7 DAG), the ploidy phenotype was enhanced and 64C cells, which are not detected in wild-type cotyledons, were produced (Figure 4A). This extra endocycle in cotyledons, together with the evidently increased proportion of 32C cells in mature first leaves, indicates that the mutation also affects the ploidy levels finally achieved in these organs. Homozygous mutant plants of the other line, SALK_092515, showed almost the same ploidy distribution patterns during leaf development (Figure 3) and in cotyledons (4 DAG; Figure 4C) as that of SALK_086463, confirming that the loss of function of CYCA2;3 is responsible for this ploidy phenotype. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the functional manner of CYCA2;3, the ploidy levels of plants heterozygous for the SALK_086463 mutation were compared with those of wild-type and homozygous mutant plants. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that CYCA2;3 transcripts were less abundant in the heterozygote than in the wild type (Figure 4B). Flow cytometry analysis of cotyledon cells of the heterozygote revealed a ploidy distribution pattern intermediate between those of the wild type and the homozygote (Figure 4B). These results indicate that the mutation is semidominant and that the expression level of CYCA2;3 negatively correlates with the ploidy level. To examine the effect of overexpression of the CYCA2;3 function on endoreduplication, the CYCA2;3-GFP fusion protein (Figure 2B) was expressed. First, to determine whether the fusion protein has the same function as the authentic protein, functional complementation analysis was performed in CYCA2;3(−/−) plants under the control of the CYCA2;3 promoter, which was used in GUS histochemical analysis. Although no fluorescence resulting from the GFP moiety was observed in the transgenic plants (data not shown), the fusion gene transcript was detected at various levels in seven transgenic lines through quantitative RT-PCR (Figure 4D). The ploidy phenotype in cotyledons was complemented almost completely in lines 8-2 and 27-2, which expressed the fusion gene at relatively high levels, and was complemented partially (lines 18-5 and 28-5) or barely (lines 1-3, 3-2, and 30-2) in lines expressing the fusion gene at relatively low levels (Figures 4D and 4E). This result indicates that the fusion protein performs the authentic function of CYCA2;3 in the regulation of endoreduplication and that its expression also negatively correlates with the ploidy level. Next, the fusion protein was expressed ectopically using an estrogen-inducible gene expression system (CITATION). To quantitatively analyze the effect of the fusion protein in the absence of the endogenous protein, the transgene was introduced into CYCA2;3(−/−) plants. The transgenic plants showed no macroscopic changes, either in the absence or the presence of the inducer (Figure 5A). Induced GFP fluorescence was observed in nuclei at various levels in different lines (data not shown). Figure 5B shows the fluorescence of representative lines with low (line 3-3) and high (line 9-1) expression levels in roots. The ploidy distributions in cotyledons and roots of these two lines were the same as in the transgenic parental line CYCA2;3(−/−) in the absence of the inducer (Figure 6). When the fusion protein was expressed, the proportion of high-ploidy cells (16C or higher) was reduced to different levels depending on the levels of the fusion protein (Figure 6). In roots, the proportion was significantly lower in line 9-1 (10.2%) than in line 3-3 (28.9%). In cotyledons, although the proportion was almost the same in the two lines (18.7% in line 3-3 and 19.0% in line 9-1), the proportion of 8C cells was significantly lower in line 9-1 (25.8%) than in line 3-3 (43.7%). These results indicate that expression of the CYCA2;3 gene and the CYCA2;3-GFP transgenes quantitatively restrains endocycles in a dose-dependent manner. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] A-type cyclins contain destruction box (D-box) sequences, which have been reported to mediate protein degradation (CITATION). To express the CYCA2;3-GFP fusion protein at even higher levels, we changed its D-box sequence to a nonfunctional one (from RAVLGEITN to GAVVGEITN; see Figure 2B) (CITATION) and inducibly expressed the protein, mDB-CYCA2;3-GFP, in CYCA2;3(−/−) plants. In the absence of the inducer, the transgenic plants showed no changes in either macroscopic morphology (Figure 5A) or ploidy distribution patterns (Figure 6) compared with the parental line CYCA2;3(−/−). In the presence of the inducer, the nuclei of these plants showed much stronger GFP fluorescence than those expressing CYCA2;3-GFP (Figure 5B). This observation suggests that authentic CYCA2;3 is downregulated in planta by D-box–mediated protein degradation. Expression of this modified cyclin resulted in dwarfism but not in the complete growth arrest of plants (Figure 5A). In the root apical region of the inducer-treated plants, root hair differentiation and vascular differentiation occurred closer to the root tip than normal (Figures 7A and 7B). This phenotype suggests that the abnormal accumulation of the mutant protein retards the mitotic cell cycle in proliferating tissues, because a similar phenotype has been reported as an effect of cell cycle arrest (CITATION). In cotyledon pavement cells, reductions in both size and shape complexity were observed (Figure 7C). These results suggest that reduced levels of both cell proliferation and cell expansion caused the dwarfism. [[FIGURE]] Cotyledons and roots expressing mDB-CYCA2;3-GFP showed relatively severe decreases in the proportion of high-ploidy cells (16C or higher) compared with those expressing CYCA2;3-GFP (Figure 6). This result is consistent with the idea that CYC2;3 quantitatively restrains endocycles depending on its expression level. It is also notable that a significant increase in the proportion of 4C cells was observed specifically in mDB-CYCA2;3-GFP–expressing plants in both cotyledons and roots (see Discussion). The similar patterns of promoter activities of CYCA2;3 and CDKA;1 in developing trichomes suggest that CYCA2;3 and CDKA;1 form a complex that regulates endoreduplication. We performed an immunoprecipitation experiment to test whether CYCA2;3 has the ability to bind to CDKA;1 in planta. Protein complexes containing mDB-CYCA2;3-GFP in inducer-treated roots (line 9-1) were immunoprecipitated with an anti-GFP antibody. After fractionation by SDS-PAGE, the immunoprecipitates showed evident bands specific to mDB-CYCA2;3-GFP–expressing plants at positions around 34 and 73 kD (Figure 8A). The immunoprecipitates were examined for the presence of CDKA;1 by protein gel blot analysis with an antibody specific to the peptide sequence PSTAIR, which CDKA;1 only contains in Arabidopsis. A signal band was detected at a position corresponding to the 34-kD band (Figure 8A), indicating that mDB-CYCA2;3-GFP binds to CDKA;1 in planta. The bands that were detected with the anti-GFP antibody around 73 kD are thought to correspond to mDB-CYCA2;3-GFP and its derivatives. [[FIGURE]] CYCA2;3-GFP was observed to be localized in nuclei (Figure 4B). To examine the intracellular localization of CDKA;1, a CDKA;1-GFP fusion protein was expressed using the truncated CDKA;1 promoter, which shows activity specific to developing trichomes (CITATION). The fusion protein was localized evidently in nuclei of developing trichomes in the period from stage 3 to early stage 5 (Figure 8B), whereas its cytosolic localization was observed throughout the period examined, from stage 2 to late stage 5. The period of nuclear localization coincides with that of CYCA2;3 promoter activity and includes the termination period of trichome endoreduplication (for comparison, see Supplemental Figure 1 online). The possible coexistence of CDKA;1 and CYCA2;3 in the nuclei and their ability to physically interact strongly suggest that the proteins form a complex in the nuclei of developing trichomes during the period of endoreduplication termination.
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis thaliana lines used were in the Columbia background. Columbia was used as the wild type. The T-DNA insertion lines SALK_086463 and SALK_092515 were identified in the collection of the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory and obtained from the ABRC. Arabidopsis plants were grown on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 0.8% agar, B5 vitamins, and 1% sucrose under daylength conditions of 16 h of light/8 h of dark and at 22°C, unless noted otherwise. DNA fragments upstream of the CYCA2;2, CYCA2;3, and CYCA2;4 initiation codons were amplified by PCR using Arabidopsis genomic DNA and the following primer sets: 5′-GTCGACTTTCTGCCGCCGTTTAT-3′ and 5′-CCCGGGAATTTAGTCTGGAAAAAGGCC-3 for CYCA2;2, 5′-AAAGCCATGGTTACTATTAT-3′ and 5′-CCCCGGATCCGTTTAAAAATCCCACGATAAA-3′ for CYCA2;3, and 5′-GTCGACTTTGAAAACAAAGATAATTCTGAATAAG-3′ and 5′-CCCGGGGATTGAAACCCTTTGACACG-3′ for CYCA2;4 (the underlined sequences are the restriction sites used for the cloning of PCR fragments). To construct the CYCA2;2 promoter–GUS and CYCA2;4 promoter–GUS genes, the corresponding PCR fragments were digested with SalI and SmaI and substituted for the 35S promoter region in the binary vector pBI121 using the SalI and SmaI sites of the vector. To construct the CYCA2;3 promoter–GUS gene, the corresponding PCR fragment was digested with NcoI and BamHI and substituted for the 35S promoter region in a pBI121-derived vector containing a hygromycin resistance gene in the T-DNA region, using the HindIII and BamHI sites of the vector. The NcoI end of the fragment and the HindIII end of the vector were filled in before ligation. The DNA fragments encoding CYCA2;3 and the engineered GFP with Ser at position 65 (sGFP) (CITATION) were fused in-frame to construct the CYCA2;3-GFP gene. The junction sequence between the two coding sequences was 5′-CTATTCCTCGAGGTCGACGGTATCGCGATAAGCTTGATTGCGGCCGCCATG-3′ (the sequences encoding the C-terminal amino acids of CYCA2;3 and the initiation codon of sGFP are underlined). To construct the CYCA2;3 promoter–driven CYCA2;3-GFP gene, the fragment encoding the fusion protein was substituted for the GUS coding region in the CYCA2;3 promoter–GUS gene using the BamHI and SacI sites preceding and following the GUS coding region, respectively. The sequences of the BamHI and SacI junctions were 5′-GGATCCATGGGG-3′ and 5′-AAGTAAGAGCTC-3′, respectively (the initiation and termination codons of CYCA2;3-GFP are underlined). To construct the estrogen-inducible CYCA2;3-GFP gene, the DNA fragment encoding the CYCA2;3-GFP protein was fused between the XhoI and SpeI sites of pER-8 (CITATION). The sequences of the XhoI and SpeI junctions were 5′-CTCGAGATTTAAATATGGGG-3′ and 5′-AAGTAAACTAGT-3′, respectively (the initiation and termination codons of CYCA2;3-GFP are underlined). In the mDB-CYCA2;3-GFP gene, in vitro mutagenesis was used to change the DNA sequence encoding the D-box from 5′-CGAGCGGTTCTAGGGGAGATCACAAAT-3′ to 5′-GGGGCGGTTGTTGGGGAGATCACAAAT-3′ (the sequences encoding the mutated amino acids are underlined). To construct the CDKA;1-GFP gene, the DNA fragments encoding CDKA;1 and sGFP were fused in an in-frame manner and substituted for the GUS-coding fragment in the construction of P(−591/+4):GUS (CITATION). The junction sequence between CDKA;1 and sGFP was 5′-GCATGCCCCCTCGAGGTGGTGGTGGCGCGGTGAGC-3′ (the sequences encoding the C-terminal amino acids of CDKA;1 and the N-terminal amino acids of sGFP are underlined). Strains of Agrobacterium tumefaciens LBA4404 carrying each construct were used to transform Arabidopsis by vacuum infiltration. The resulting transgenic plants were self-pollinated, and T3 plants homozygous for the transgene were used in subsequent experiments, unless noted otherwise. To detect the CYCA2;3 transcript, first-strand cDNA was synthesized and amplified with the SuperScript One-Step RT-PCR kit containing Platium Taq (Invitrogen Life Technologies) using total RNA and the CYCA2;3-specific primers 5′-AGGCACAGATAACACAGCTG-3′ and 5′-TGAGGTAGAGAGTGTCAGATGC-3′. As an internal control, primers specific to the ACT2 gene (At3g18780), 5′-TGGTGTCATGGTTGGGATG-3′ and 5′-CACCACTGAGCACAATGTTAC-3′, were used in the same reaction mixture. For quantitative RT-PCR analysis, first-strand cDNA was synthesized with the First-Strand cDNA Synthesis System for Quantitative RT-PCR (Marligen Biosciences) with total RNA. The cDNA was then subjected to PCR with the same primers. The PCR products (a 296-bp fragment for CYCA2;3 and a 782-bp fragment for ACT2) were fractionated by agarose gel electrophoresis and stained with ethidium bromide. First-strand cDNA was synthesized from a total RNA fraction treated with DNase I and subjected to real-time quantitative PCR. Expression analysis of cyclin A2 genes was performed with the SYBR Green method using the DyNAmo HS SYBR Green qPCR kit (Finnzymes) and Rotor-Gene 3000A (Corbett Research). ACT2 transcripts were also quantified to normalize the amount of total transcripts in each sample. Primers used for the quantitative analysis were as follows: ACT2, 5′-AACCCAAAGGCCAACAGAGA-3′ and 5′-CCATCACCAGAATCCAGCAC-3′; CYCA2;1, 5′-AAAGACGAGCGGTGCTCAA-3′ and 5′-CGCCATCCACATCTACCAAA-3′; CYCA2;2, 5′-CGAAAGGGAGGCAACATCA-3′ and 5′-CATGGCACTGTTAGCACCTTC-3′; CYCA2;3, 5′-AGAGCCACTGGACCCAACA-3′ and 5′-ATGACCGCGTCCTTTCTTTATC-3′; CYCA2;4, 5′-TCTTGAAGAAATTTCTGGAGCGTA-3′ and 5′-GTAGCAGCCACTTCAGAAGATGTTA-3′. Standard cDNA templates for quantity calibration were produced by RT-PCR from a total RNA fraction and purified by fractionation with agarose gel electrophoresis. Primers used for this RT-PCR were as follows: ACT2, 5′-ATGGCTGAGGCTGATGA-3′ and 5′-TCAATTTGCATGTAAGAGAATTC-3′; CYCA2;1, 5′-ATGCATAGAGCTTCTTCTAAGCA-3′ and 5′-TCATCTTGAGAAGAGTGTGTTCA-3′; CYCA2;2, 5′-ATGTATTGCTCTTCTTCGATG-3′ and 5′-TCATCTTGAGAATAGTGATGTGAC-3′; CYCA2;3, 5′-ATCTCGATCTGTGTCCAAAGC-3′ and 5′-TCAGAATAGCGTGTCAAGTAGC-3′; CYCA2;4, 5′-GAGCTCATTTCCCCAAATTA-3′ and 5′-TTAGGAGATGAATAGCTTGTCC-3′. For the expression analysis of CDC6, E2Fa, and DPa genes, the TaqMan method (Roche Molecular Systems) was used with Rotor-Gene 3000A (Corbett Research). Primers and florescent probes used are listed as follows. ACT2 primers, 5′-TGTGCCAATCTACGAGGGTTTC-3′ and 5′-TTTCCCGCTCTGCTGTTGTG-3′; ACT2 probe, 5′-TET-ATGCCATCCTCCGTCTTGACCTTGCTG-TAMRA-3′; CDC6a primers, 5′-AAGTTAGAGGATCAATAGATCAAGAACG-3′ and 5′-TCTTGGACAATGCAGCTATCATATG-3′; CDC6a probe, 5′-FAM-TGACCACTTGACACTCTGGAACTGGACCTT-TAMRA-3′; DPa primers, 5′-GCAGAGAAGCCTTTGAATGAAAATG-3′ and 5′-ATATCCAACGCCATGAACACATTG-3′; DPa probe, 5′-FAM-CGCATCGTAGACTCTCCGCCTTATGTTCTT-TAMRA-3′; E2Fa primers, 5′-AGCCTTTCAAGAATCGAATACTTTGG-3′ and 5′-TGTAATACAGATACGTCAGCATCCTC-3′; E2Fa probe, 5′-FAM-TCGCCAGGACACGCATCAACTCCCT-TAMRA-3′ (TET, TAMRA, and FAM are tetrachlorofluorescein, 6-carboxytetramethylrhodamine, and 6-carboxyfluorescein, respectively). Trichomes were isolated from rosette leaves of 3-week-old plants as described (CITATION). The trichomes were incubated for 3 h in PBST (50 mM NaPO4, 150 mM NaCl, and 0.05% Triton X-100, pH 7.2) containing 0.5 μg/mL DAPI at room temperature and then washed three times with PBST. The DAPI-stained nuclei were photographed by fluorescence microscopy (AxioPhot2; Carl Zeiss), and the projection area of each nucleus was measured using the imaging software Image Ana-LITE (Omron). Plant ploidy was analyzed using the Ploidy Analyzer PA flow cytometer (Partec), according to the manufacturer's instructions. Baselines were calculated using the polynomial trendline function of Microsoft Excel (example baselines are the gray lines shown in Figures 2E and 2F). Before calculating the total count in each peak, the value at each position on the baseline was subtracted from the corresponding value of raw data. Plant samples were harvested, ground into powder in liquid nitrogen, and suspended in lysis buffer (CITATION) supplemented with protease inhibitor cocktail for plant cell and tissue extracts (Sigma-Aldrich). After centrifugation, the cleared lysate was incubated for 4 h at 4°C with BD Living Colors full-length A.v. polyclonal antibody (BD Bioscience) and protein A Sepharose CL-4B (Amersham Biosciences). Immunoprecipitate was washed with wash buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM EGTA, and 1 mM DTT). The proteins in the precipitate were fractionated by SDS-PAGE and transferred onto polyvinylidene difluoride filter paper (Amersham Biosciences). Protein gel blotting was performed with mouse monoclonal antibodies specific to the PSTAIR peptide sequence (P7962; Sigma-Aldrich) and GFP (11E5; Molecular Probes) as primary antibodies and anti-mouse IgG antibody conjugated with peroxidase (A4416; Sigma-Aldrich) as a secondary antibody. Blotting signals was detected with the enhanced chemiluminescence protein gel blot detection system (Amersham Biosciences). Histochemical GUS analysis was performed as described previously (CITATION). The surfaces of wild-type leaves were observed with the S-3500N scanning electron microscope (Hitachi) in variable-pressure mode. GFP fluorescence was observed with the LSM510 confocal laser-scanning microscope (Carl Zeiss). For analyses of the inner structures of root tips and cotyledon epidermis cell shapes, plant tissues were fixed and cleared essentially as described (CITATION) and observed with Nomarski DIC microscopy using Axioplan 2 (Carl Zeiss). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers Z31589 (CYCA2;1), Z31402 (CYCA2;2), NM_101426 (CYCA2;3), NM_106686 (CYCA2;4), and NM_114734 (CDKA;1). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Patterns of CYCA2;3 Promoter Activity and the Nuclear Localization of the CDKA;1-GFP Fusion Protein in Trichome Development. Supplemental Figure 2. Histochemical Analysis of the CYCA2;2 and CYCA2;4 Promoters. Supplemental Figure 3. Histochemical Analysis of CYCA2;3 Promoter Activity and Ploidy Distribution Analysis in Etiolated Hypocotyls. Supplemental Figure 4. Expression Analysis of Arabidopsis A2-Type Cyclin Genes by Real-Time Quantitative PCR. Supplemental Figure 5. Expression Analysis of G1/S-Related Genes by Real-Time Quantitative PCR.
