!~ABS~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) contains approximately 100 homeobox genes, many of which have been shown to play critical roles in various developmental processes. Here we characterize the zinc finger-homeodomain (ZF-HD) subfamily of homeobox genes, consisting of 14 members in Arabidopsis. We demonstrate that the HDs of the ZF-HD proteins share some similarities with other known HDs in Arabidopsis, but they contain distinct features that cluster them as a unique class of plant HD-containing proteins. We have carried out mutational analyses to show that the noncanonical residues present in the HDs of this family of proteins are important for function. Yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid matrix analyses of the ZF-HD proteins reveal that these proteins both homo- and heterodimerize, which may contribute to greater selectivity in DNA binding. These assays also show that most of these proteins do not contain an intrinsic activation domain, suggesting that interactions with other factors are required for transcriptional activation. We also show that the family members are all expressed predominantly or exclusively in floral tissue, indicating a likely regulatory role during floral development. Furthermore, we have identified loss-of-function mutations for six of these genes that individually show no obvious phenotype, supporting the idea that the encoded proteins have common roles in floral development. Based on these results, we propose the ZF-HD gene family encodes a group of transcriptional regulators with unique biochemical activities that play overlapping regulatory roles in Arabidopsis floral development.
!~RES~! To identify DNA-binding proteins involved in Arabidopsis floral development, we carried out a yeast one-hybrid screen using floral-specific promoter sequences. The DNA-binding protein ATHB33, one of the members of the ZF-HD family, was identified in this screen (Q. K.-G. Tan and V.F. Irish, unpublished data). There are 14 members of this family in Arabidopsis (Fig. 1A ) and 11 members had been previously assigned ATHB names (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] All the Arabidopsis ZF-HD family members encode small proteins, with the longest sequence containing only 334 amino acids. None of the genes contain introns in their coding sequences. Members of the ZF-HD class contain one conserved region upstream of the HD (Fig. 1A). This upstream region corresponds to the ZF domain and contains conserved His and Cys residues. The ZF domain has been shown to be sufficient in mediating dimerization between different ZF-HD proteins in Flaveria, with the Cys residues being important for interaction (Windhövel et al., 2001). The ZF (CX+NHAX3GX4DGCXEFX8–15CX2CXCHRXFH) is characterized by a CHCC3H2 motif with a variable length spacer between the first CHC residues and the more carboxy terminal C3H2 residues. It forms a distinct group compared with other ZF motifs characterized in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION). The length of the spacer may have a crucial role in dimerization, since members with shorter spacers do not appear to effectively dimerize with other members of the ZF-HD family (see below). The HDs of the Arabidopsis family members are aligned in Figure 1B, together with other representative HDs. The HD in the ZF-HD family is most closely related to the HDs that are associated with LIM domains (CITATION). LIM-HD transcription factors are involved in tissue patterning and cell type specification in Drosophila, Caenorhabditis elegans, as well as vertebrates (for review, see CITATION). The LIM domains, via associations with other cofactors, are postulated to modulate the DNA-binding activity of the HD. Similarly, coordinate binding of the ZF-HD family proteins with other transcription factors may serve to regulate transcription. Supporting this idea, an interaction with the MADS domain-containing transcription factor APETALA1 has been demonstrated, using yeast two-hybrid analyses, for ATHB33 (data not shown). We examined the importance of the HD in DNA binding by generating a variety of mutated versions of ATHB33. While full-length ATHB33 binds to target promoter sequences in yeast one-hybrid assays, removal of the HD from ATHB33 abolished the binding to target promoter sequences (Fig. 2 ). Most HD-containing transcription factors identified contain a canonical Phe at residue 49 in the HD region (Fig. 1B; CITATION). This residue is not thought to directly contact DNA, but it is important for proper folding of the HD, particularly in stabilizing the hydrophobic core of the HD structure bound to DNA (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Intriguingly, the ZF-HD family members do not have a Phe at this position, and instead have a nonpolar residue (Met, Val, Ile, or Leu) in its place (Fig. 1B). When this residue in ATHB33 was mutated to a Phe or Ala, binding to target promoter sequences was abolished (Fig. 2), showing that the substitution of this residue confers important binding characteristics to this family of DNA-binding proteins. ATHB33 also does not contain intrinsic transcriptional activation activity, as demonstrated by the lack of reporter expression in a construct that does not contain the GAL4 activation domain (AD; Fig. 2). [[FIGURE]] Yeast one-hybrid assays were used to delimit the domain to which ATHB33 binds to 30 bp of the original 202-bp promoter fragment (data not shown). Within this region, there is a binding sequence for the α2 HD protein (TGTAATT). The α2 HD binds to a consensus sequence motif, TGTANNT (CITATION). The canonical binding site for most HDs is NNATTA, with the specificity for the first two bases determined by residues as position 50 and 54 (CITATION; CITATION). This consensus is also found in the region bound by ATHB33. To explicitly map the binding sequence of ATHB33, we carried out electrophoretic mobility shift assays. Two overlapping fragments spanning the 30-bp binding region were initially used to localize the binding of ATHB33 to a 20-bp fragment that contains the consensus NNATTA (Fig. 3A ). A series of 20-bp oligonucleotides, in which one or two bases were mutated, were then used to define sequences required for binding (Fig. 3, A and B). Both the BM1 and BM2 mutated oligonucleotides retained the ability to bind ATHB33, while BM3 and BM4 abrogated binding. In addition, competition assays were used to assess the ability of these oligonucleotides to disrupt binding of ATHB33 to the B fragment (Fig. 3C). The relative strength of competition was BM1 > BM2 > BM4 > BM3, indicating that the mutated bases in BM4 and BM3 were the least effective in disrupting binding. Together, these results show that ATHB33 binds to a core consensus sequence of ATTA, similar to that of other HD-containing proteins (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To compare the HD in the 14 Arabidopsis ZF-HD proteins with the HDs found in the other major Arabidopsis HD families, phylogenetic analyses were carried out (CITATION). Both maximum parsimony and Bayesean analyses show that the ZF-HD proteins form a monophyletic group distinct from the other major classes of plant HDs (Fig. 4 ). This confirms the preliminary finding of Windhövel et al. (2001) and definitively places this group of factors in a class of their own (CITATION). Furthermore, the phylogenetic analyses suggest that certain ZF-HD family members are more closely related to each other than to other members (Fig. 4). Analyses of the Arabidopsis genome indicate that it has undergone a number of ancient and more recent gene duplication events, resulting in multiple regions of synteny across the genome (CITATION). To assess the ancestry of these sequences, we examined whether the ZF-HD family members resided on duplicated segments of the Arabidopsis genome, indicating that they were the result of segmental genome duplication events. We found that the ATHB22 and ATHB25 genes reside in syntenous blocks, as do ATHB21 and ATHB31. ATHB23, ATHB30, and ATHB34 also are in syntenous regions. For two ZF-HD genes, ATHB26 and ATHB27, we could not identify paralogous sequences residing in syntenous blocks, despite the fact that these genes reside in genomic locations that have been duplicated (CITATION). Thus, in general, the duplication history of the ZF-HD genes is consistent with the phylogenetic groupings we identified. [[FIGURE]] BLAST searches revealed that no homologs of the ZF-HD proteins are present in Homo sapiens, C. elegans, Mus musculus, Drosophila melanogaster, and Danio rerio, and no homologs were found when the ZF-HD sequence was used in BLAST searches against 16 fungal and 303 bacterial genomes. However, a hypothetical protein with a region similar to the ZF was found in the fungus Magnaporthe grisea and a Ser protease in the Bdellovibrio bacteriovorus bacterial genome. The HD was most similar to that of LHX8 found in humans and mouse. The ZF-HD sequence was searched against plant genomic databases (www.plantgdb.org), using tBLASTn against expressed sequence tags, cDNAs, or genomic sequences. Genes containing both the ZF and HD were found in a variety of plant genomes, including gymnosperms (Pinus taeda), as well as a number of angiosperm species, including monocots (e.g. Triticum aestivum, maize, and rice) and eudicots (e.g. Citrus sinensis, Glycine max, Gossypium arboreum, Medicago truncatula, and Phaseolus vulgaris). Sequences similar to the ZF were found in the fern Ceratopteris richardii, while a noncanonical similar HD sequence was found in the moss Physcomitrella patens. These data suggest that the ZF-HD gene family is specific to the plant kingdom, and implies that such genes have plant-specific functions. Furthermore, the apparent absence of the combination of the ZF and HD motifs in clades other than gymnosperms and angiosperms suggests that the ZF-HD family may have arisen during the evolution of seed plants. To analyze the expression patterns of the ZF-HD family members, northern-hybridization analyses were carried out (Fig. 5 ). Strikingly, RNA of 13 of the family members was detected predominantly or exclusively in floral tissue. The expression of the ATHB26 gene could not be detected by northerns, nor could it be detected by Massively Parallel Signature Sequencing with confidence (CITATION). Digital northern analyses were carried out for ATHB26 using Genevestigator (CITATION), which consolidates the data from microarray data performed on Arabidopsis. Using this strategy, no expression data for ATHB26 was recovered. Thus, ATHB26 may be a pseudogene. Some ZF-HD family members are expressed in a floral-specific manner, for example, ATHB33 and ATHB28. The remaining members are expressed most strongly in the flowers and more weakly elsewhere. Although the different members may vary in their expression in vegetative tissue, it is notable that the expression in floral tissue is always strong. Even within the flowers, some members are more highly expressed in younger flowers (ATHB21, ATHB25, and ATHB31) and others are more highly expressed in older flowers (ATHB22, ATHB27, and ATHB29), whereas others are more equally expressed. [[FIGURE]] A comparison was carried out between the expression data we obtained and the expression profiles of the ZF-HD family members as assessed by microarray analyses. Using the Gene Atlas feature of the Genevestigator Web site (CITATION), which collates data from different microarray experiments (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), the expression profile of these genes is largely similar to our northern data. One exception is ATHB27, for which we only see high levels of expression in open flowers, but is reported to be fairly ubiquitously expressed by Gene Atlas. High levels of seed expression are observed in Gene Atlas for ATHB22 and ATHB29, which may explain the particularly high expression level we obtained for RNA extracted from open flowers corresponding to these two genes. Strong floral expression is seen for both data sets for ATHB28 and ATHB31, although there are some minor variations in expression levels seen in other tissues. The similarity in expression domains of the ZF-HD family members suggests that they may have similar roles in regulating floral development. To explicitly test this possibility, we identified T-DNA insertional mutations in ATHB22, ATHB23, ATHB25, ATHB29, ATHB31, ATHB32, ATHB33 (two insertions), and ATHB34 (data not shown). Homozygous mutant lines were identified for each of these mutations using PCR genotyping (see “Materials and Methods”); however, none of these nine mutant lines showed any detectable developmental or morphological phenotype (data not shown). Reduced levels of transcripts for the mutations in ATHB31 and ATHB33 were confirmed using northern analyses (data not shown). To characterize the dimerization partners of the Arabidopsis ZF-HD family members, we carried out a matrix of yeast two-hybrid assays, with each family member linked to the yeast GAL4AD or GAL4BD. We carried out these interaction studies for each family member in both combinations. As shown in Table I , the strengths of the interactions between these proteins reveal interesting trends. The Arabidopsis proteins appear to form stronger heterodimers compared to homodimers, as assessed by reporter gene expression. The only exception is ATHB22, which forms a strong interaction with itself, as well as with many other members. Some of the other members, namely ATHB25 and ATHB29, are likewise promiscuous in their interactions. ATHB29 possesses its own AD, since the construct with ATHB29 linked to BD could activate reporter gene expression when coexpressed with just the AD alone. On the other hand, when linked to the AD, ATHB29 interacts with virtually all family members. This is an interesting finding, since ATHB29 could potentially serve as the partner that confers activation of transcription, whereas the other partner could dictate DNA-binding specificity. According to the northern data, the ATHB29 gene is expressed at high levels in flowers only, with low expression in roots (Fig. 5). It is likely that ATHB29 confers floral specificity on the transcriptional complex containing ZF-HD family members. Yeast two-hybrid matrix analysis of interactions between Arabidopsis ZF-HD proteins Strength of interaction indicated by ++++ (very strong), +++ (strong), ++ (moderate), + (weak), and +−(very weak). AD, GAL4AD; BD, GAL4BD. In general, the dimerization characteristics of the proteins are consistent in both combinations tested. The few exceptions are ATHB23/ATHB29, ATHB23/ATHB31, ATHB25/ATHB34, ATHB28/ATHB33, ATHB28/ATHB34, ATHB33/ATHB34, ATHB22/ATHB34, and ATHB23/ATHB34, which differ to some degree in strength. We only identified one ZF-HD, ATHB26, which does not dimerize at all with any of the other family members. As previously described, ATHB26 does not appear to be expressed. ATHB27 and ATHB32 are two members that form weak dimers with some other members of the family. It may be possible that these weak interactions indicate that ATHB27 and ATHB32 require the presence of cofactors to stabilize the resulting complex. Another possibility is that ATHB27 and ATHB32 contain repressor domains, which overcome the activity of the yeast AD in this assay.
!~MM~! The HD sequences were downloaded from GenBank. HD sequences from two members from each homeobox class in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) were used for the alignment (classes were selected based on CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative and GenBank accession numbers used for the phylogenetic analyses are as follows: BEL1, At5g41410/A57632; AtH1, At4g32980, NP_195024; KNAT3, At5g25220, CAA63130; KNAT7, At1g62990, AAG40858; KNAT6, At1g23380, BAB69679; STM, At1g62360, Q38874; HAT3.1, At3g19510, NP_188582; PRHA, At4g29940, AAA32843; ATHB5, At5g65310, AAG40406; HAT7, At5g15150, AAA56906; HAT3, At3g60390, NP_191598; HAT4, At4g16780, AAA32815; FWA, At4g25530, AAK28350; GLABRA2, At1g79840, AAG52245; ATHB8, At4g32880, AAM20482; REV, At5g60690, AAF42938; PRS, At2g28610, BAB79446; and WUS, At2g17950, CAA09986. The HD sequences were aligned with ClustalX (1.81), and alignments refined by hand using MacClade 4.03.68K (CITATION). Phylogenetic analyses to generate maximum parsimony trees were performed using PAUP 4.0b10 (CITATION). Maximum parsimony trees were generated using a heuristic search method of 1,000 random stepwise additions employing a tree-bisection reconnection branch swapping algorithm. Gaps in sequences were treated as missing data, and all characters were equally weighted. Multiple equal length parsimony trees were collapsed into a 50% majority rule consensus tree. Bootstrap support was estimated by carrying out 1,000 heuristic searches using the same criteria as above. Bayesean analyses were carried out using MrBayes 3.1 (CITATION) utilizing amino acid alignments. Posterior probability distribution was approximated by Markov Chain Monte Carlo (or MCMC) of 1 million generations with a fixed rate model estimated for our amino acid data. Trees were sampled at every 100th generation and a 50% majority rule consensus tree was generated after trees were removed as “burn-in.” Posterior probabilities are presented under each branch. SLAT lines: The SLAT collection of Arabidopsis insertion lines was created by Dr. Jonathan Jones, Sainsbury Laboratory, John Innes Center, Norwich, UK. The lines are of the Columbia ecotype containing dSpm (a nonautonomous Spm derivative) insertions in the genome. DNA from the iPCR products of the SLAT plants (approximately 48,000 transposants) was arranged into superpools and subpools and spotted onto a filter. The filter was probed with the gene of interest, and plants from the subpool with a hit were grown, genomic DNA was isolated from these plants, and PCR was used to isolate the plant with the insert. dSpm primers and PCR protocols were obtained from the SLAT line Web site (http://arabidopsis.info/CollectionInfo?id=51). SAIL lines: The SAIL T-DNA lines were generated by the Torrey Mesa Research Institute/Syngenta Biotechnology, San Diego, CA (CITATION). Protocols for analyses are available on their Web site (http://www.tmri.org/en/partnership/sail_collection.aspx). SALK Lines: The SALK SiGNAL T-DNA lines (CITATION) were analyzed according to protocols obtained from the Web site (http://signal.salk.edu/tabout.html). For all mutant lines, plant tissues were ground in liquid nitrogen using an eppendorf tube pestle. Three-hundred microliters of extraction buffer (200 mm Tris, pH 7.5; 250 mm NaCl; 25 mm EDTA; and 0.5% SDS) was added to the ground tissue and the tube was incubated at 50°C for 20 to 30 min. An equal volume of phenol:chloroform was then added to the mixture, mixed, and then centrifuged for 5 min. Three-hundred microliters of isopropanol was added to the supernatant, mixed, and frozen at −20°C for 30 min. The DNA was obtained by a 10-min centrifugation, and it was washed with 70% ethanol, dried, dissolved in Tris-EDTA, and used in PCR reactions. Taq polymerase was obtained from Promega or NEB and Pwo polymerase was obtained from Roche. PCR reactions were performed as recommended by the respective Web sites. Seedling tissue from Arabidopsis Landsberg erecta was collected at 6 d postgermination, grown on Murashige and Skoog plates (all plant media from Sigma) or soil. Root tissue was collected from plants grown on Murashige and Skoog plates. The other tissues were collected from soil-grown plants. All plants were grown in standard long-day conditions (16-h light/8-h dark; 22°C). RNAs from tissues were prepared using Trizol (Invitrogen) following the manufacturer's protocol. For RNA blots, 25 μg of RNA was loaded per lane; the gels were then treated with 50 mm NaOH/10 mm NaCl, and subsequently with 100 mm Tris, pH 7.5. They were blotted onto a Hybond-N membrane (GE Healthcare Amersham). The probes used for hybridization were unique regions for each gene. Hybridization was carried out at 42°C overnight in a solution containing 50% formamide, 3× SSC, 0.1 mg/mL ssDNA, 5× Denhardt's, 5% Dextran Sulphate, and 25 mm EDTA, pH 8. The filters were then washed in SSC. All chemicals were obtained from Sigma. The −285 to −83 region of the promoter of APETALA3 (At3g54340; CITATION) was dimerized and ligated into the β-galactosidase reporter gene-containing vector pLacZi (BD Biosciences Clontech). The promoter fragments were cloned in the sense or antisense orientation with respect to the reporter genes. These reporter constructs were then linearized with the appropriate enzymes and transformed into yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) strain YM4271. The resultant yeast strain had the promoter-LacZ reporter integrated into its genome. For the no-HD construct, the HD of ATHB33 was removed using BglII and ligated to the pGAD424 vector, which contains the yeast GAL4AD (BD Biosciences Clontech). This construct lacks the HD sequence and 77 bp 5′ to the HD. As for the FL construct, the full-length ATHB33 fragment (coding region and 33 bp of 3′ untranslated region) was first cloned into pCR2.1 using the TOPO TA cloning kit (Invitrogen). The insert was then digested with EcoRI, and cloned into the EcoRI site in pGAD424 to give FL. For the no-AD construct, the AD sequence in FL (in pGAD424) was cut out using KpnI and a partial digest of EcoRI, and the plasmid was then blunt ended with Klenow polymerase (NEB) and religated. The MtoA (Met 49 to Ala) and MtoF (Met 49 to Phe) mutations were engineered using PCR, as described in CITATION. The primers used for the MtoA construct are: 5′CAAAGTTTGGGCGCATAACAACAAG (forward) and 5′CTTGTTGTTATGCGCCCAAACTTTG (reverse). Primers for MtoF are: 5′CAAAGTTTGGTTTCATAACAACAAG (forward) and 5′CTTGTTGTTATGAAACCAAACTTTG (reverse). The bases that have been altered from the ATHB33 sequence are underlined. The polymerase and buffer for PCR were obtained from GE Healthcare Amersham. All restriction enzymes were purchased from New England Biolabs. LacZ liquid assays provide a quantitative measure of the amount of reporter expression. For the liquid assay, the yeast colonies were grown on synthetic dextrose (SD)/Leu liquid media for 2 d at room temperature. They were then transferred to 2 mL of yeast peptone dextrose and grown for 3 to 4 h at room temperature. One milliliter of the culture was then centrifuged and resuspended in 800 μL of Z buffer (60 mm Na2HPO4, 40 mm NaH2PO4, 10 mm KCl, 1 mm MgSO4, and 50 mm β-mercaptoethanol, pH 7). The rest of the culture was used for the OD600 reading. One drop of 0.1% SDS and two drops of chloroform were added to the resuspended cells and the cells were vortexed for 15 s. This mixture was incubated at 30°C for 15 min. One-hundred sixty microliters of 4 mg/mL ONPG (Sigma) was then added, and the mixture was vortexed for 10 s and placed at 30°C for the reaction to take place. After a few hours, the reaction was quenched with 400 μL of 1 m sodium carbonate. The OD420 and OD550 of the mixture were noted. To calculate units, the following formula was used: Each construct was assayed using five independent transformants and the assays were performed at least twice for consistency. The open reading frame sequences of all ZF-HD family members were obtained from Ler wild-type tissue using reverse transcription-PCR. Five micrograms of the total RNA was reverse transcribed in a 20 μL reaction, using 0.5 μg of oligo dT primer and Superscript II (Invitrogen), according to the manufacturer's recommendations. The cDNA was diluted 20×, and 5 μL was used in PCR reactions using the Expand HiFidelity PCR system (Roche). PCR products were cloned into pCR2.1 (Invitrogen) and sequenced. All the constructs were ligated into either the pGAD424 vector or the pGBT9 vector (containing the GAL4BD sequence). The plasmids containing the AD sequence were transformed into Y187 yeast strain (MATα)), and colonies were selected on SD medium lacking Leu. The plasmids with the BD sequence were transformed into the Y190 yeast strain (MATa), and colonies were selected on SD medium lacking Trp. Colonies to be mated were placed in yeast peptone dextrose medium, and incubated at 30°C overnight, with shaking. An aliquot was then plated on SD dropout medium lacking both Leu and Trp to select for yeast with two plasmids. Colonies were then restreaked on fresh SD/Leu/Trp plates, and replica plated onto Whatman 3MM filter paper, which was then placed on an SD/Leu/Trp plate. Alternatively, the colonies were streaked directly on filter paper placed on an SD/Leu/Trp plate. The colonies were grown for 2 d at 30°C. The filters were then dipped in liquid nitrogen for 10 s to lyse the cells. Filters were then left to thaw, and then placed on top of a piece of filter paper that had been soaked with Z buffer/X-gal solution. The time it took for colonies to turn blue was recorded. The assay was performed for a total of six times. All yeast protocols, vectors, and strains were obtained from BD Biosciences Clontech. The ATHB33 coding region was cloned into pSP72A (Promega) and a transcription reaction was performed with SP6 RNA polymerase (Roche) at 37°C for 7 h. The mixture was then treated with DNAse I (Roche). Five micrograms of RNA was used for in vitro translation using the Rabbit Reticulocyte Lysate system (Promega). 35S Met (Amersham) was used to label the protein, and the reaction was carried out following the manufacturer's protocol. As a control, the Luc control RNA was also translated, and a control reaction containing no RNA was also set up. The integrity of the proteins was checked on a polyacrylamide gel. Oligonucleotides were generated by the Keck Facility at Yale University. To anneal, complementary pairs of oligonucleotides were dissolved in 0.05 m NaCl, boiled, then slowly cooled to room temperature. A total of 1.5 units of shrimp alkaline phosphatase (USB) were then added to dephosphorylate the ends of the DNA. After the reaction, the phosphatase was inactivated and removed, and the DNA was precipitated. The DNA was labeled with gamma32P ATP (Amersham) using 10 units of T4 polynucleotide kinase (NEB). Labeled DNA was spotted onto DE81 filters to measure the specific activity of the labeling reaction. The excess probe was then removed using sephadex G50 microspin columns (Amersham). Electrophoretic mobility shift reactions were run on an 8% polyacrylamide gel. For binding reactions, 6 fmol of each probe was used in a mixture containing 0.8 μg poly dIdC, 20 mm HEPES, pH 7.8, 50 mm NaCl, 10 mm MgCl2, 1 mm EDTA, 1 mm dithiothreitol, and 10% glycerol (CITATION). Two microliters of the translated protein mix was added, and the reaction was incubated at room temperature for 1 h. For the competition assays, cold probe (BM1-4) was added at 1,000×, 10,000×, and 50,000× excess. Control reactions were carried out using lysate alone with no added protein (lysate), Luc RNA added to lysate (Luc), or water added in place of lysate and protein (probe).
