!~ABS~! Plastoglobules (PGs) are oval or tubular lipid-rich structures present in all plastid types, but their specific functions are unclear. PGs contain quinones, α-tocopherol, and lipids and, in chromoplasts, carotenoids as well. It is not known whether PGs contain any enzymes or regulatory proteins. Here, we determined the proteome of PGs from chloroplasts of stressed and unstressed leaves of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) as well as from pepper (Capsicum annuum) fruit chromoplasts using mass spectrometry. Together, this showed that the proteome of chloroplast PGs consists of seven fibrillins, providing a protein coat and preventing coalescence of the PGs, and an additional 25 proteins likely involved in metabolism of isoprenoid-derived molecules (quinines and tocochromanols), lipids, and carotenoid cleavage. Four unknown ABC1 kinases were identified, possibly involved in regulation of quinone monooxygenases. Most proteins have not been observed earlier but have predicted N-terminal chloroplast transit peptides and lack transmembrane domains, consistent with localization in the PG lipid monolayer particles. Quantitative differences in PG composition in response to high light stress and degreening were determined by differential stable-isotope labeling using formaldehyde. More than 20 proteins were identified in the PG proteome of pepper chromoplasts, including four enzymes of carotenoid biosynthesis and several homologs of proteins observed in the chloroplast PGs. Our data strongly suggest that PGs in chloroplasts form a functional metabolic link between the inner envelope and thylakoid membranes and play a role in breakdown of carotenoids and oxidative stress defense, whereas PGs in chromoplasts are also an active site for carotenoid conversions.
!~RES~! We improved existing PG purification protocols found in the literature with the objective of shortening purification time and improving PG yield. This resulted in highly purified PGs that were light yellow in color (Fig. 1 ). Using this improved protocol, PGs were purified from wild-type and clpr2-1 plants with reduced expression of the chloroplast ClpR2 protease (A. Rudella, J.M. Alonso, J.R. Ecker, and K.J. van Wijk, unpublished data) grown under optimal conditions. In addition, PGs were prepared from wild-type plants first grown under optimal conditions and then kept for 7 d in complete darkness or exposed to 7 d of high light (HL) flux (1,500 μmol photons m−2 s−1). The protein amount of PGs after HL and dark treatment increased, respectively, 10- to 12- and 3-fold on a total leaf fresh-weight basis. [[FIGURE]] To obtain an overview of the PG proteomes, PG proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE, stained, and the major protein bands were analyzed by matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry (MS) peptide mass fingerprinting (Fig. 2A ). The chloroplast PG proteomes were dominated by fibrillins in bands 6, 10, and 11 (in particular, FIB1a, b, 2, 4, and 7a) and Fru-bis-P aldolases (FBPA) in band 6 (Table I ). (For a complete list and MS scores, see Supplemental Table I.) [[FIGURE]] Composition and comparative accumulation of the chloroplast PG proteome of stressed (D and HL) and unstressed (C) leaves and clpr2-1 in Arabidopsis C, control; D, darkness; R2, ClpR2; Env, chloroplast envelope; Thy, thylakoid; Chl, chloroplast; Str, stroma. To more fully identify the PG proteomes, we used a protocol compatible with the hydrophobic nature of PGs (CITATION). In short, proteomes were delipidized by SDS solubilization and acetone precipitation, followed by resolubilization of the proteins in dimethyl sulfoxide (Me2SO), trypsin digestion, and nano liquid chromatography (nanoLC)-electrospray ionization (ESI)-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) analysis of the peptides (Tables I and II ). Thirty-two proteins, not part of the thylakoid photosynthetic complexes, were identified in the chloroplast PGs from unstressed and stressed conditions and clpr2-1 (Table I). PGs purified from the chloroplast protease mutant clpr2 were very similar in composition to those from dark-treated wild-type plants. Composition and comparative accumulation of the chloroplast PG proteome of stressed (D and HL) and unstressed (C) leaves and clpr2-1 in Arabidopsis, the photosynthetic apparatus See Table I legend for definitions of abbreviations. These identified proteins were cross-correlated to large-scale Arabidopsis proteomics data from envelope (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION) and other Arabidopsis subcellular proteomes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) and to other literature. Most of the proteins were never identified in the stromal or envelope proteome, clearly indicating that PGs contain a specific protein population (Table I). A number of proteins were identified during our previous in-depth analyses of the thylakoid membranes (CITATION; CITATION), which is not surprising because PGs are associated with the thylakoid membrane (Table I). Only one (At4g01150) of the 33 PG proteins has predicted transmembrane domains. The absence of transmembrane domains is consistent with the absence of a lipid bilayer in the PGs. The documented lipid monolayer cannot accommodate transmembrane domains. This is another strong indication that the proteome identified here is not a random collection of hydrophilic thylakoid or envelope (bilayer) proteins. The PG proteins were tentatively assigned to four functional classes, namely (1) fibrillins (seven proteins) forming the protein coat of the PGs; (2) lipid metabolism or mobilization of fatty acids (two proteins); (3) quinone synthesis and regulation (six proteins); and (4) no obvious function (11 proteins). In addition, we identified three proteins involved in synthesis of the hormone jasmonic acid (JA), tocopherol, and a protein likely involved carotenoid cleavage. Finally, we identified two FBPAs with very high scores; it is highly unlikely that they represent stromal contamination because we hardly observed other abundant stromal proteins. We will comment on the unique localization and functional assignments of most of the identified proteins later in this article. We also identified a number of proteins of the thylakoid photosynthetic apparatus, in particular, after 7 d of continued HL stress and, to a lesser extent, also after 7 d of continued darkness (Table II). Only some of the very abundant light-harvesting proteins were found in the control and clpr2-1 PG preparations with relatively low scores. It is most likely that they represent dismantled thylakoid membrane fragments. We were interested in determining whether and how the PG proteome changes after prolonged light stress (HL) or after degreening during prolonged darkness. Under these conditions, significant breakdown of the thylakoid proteome and possibly the lipid bilayer occurs. To determine differential protein accumulation due to these dark and HL stress treatments, peptides for each of the PG samples were labeled with either formaldehyde (HCHO) or its deuterated form (DCDO). The principles of this comparative proteomics technique were initially described by CITATION. We optimized the technique for peptide recovery and labeling efficiency and also adapted it for membrane proteins. Three pairwise comparisons between the three PG samples were carried out and included a label switch within each pair, as outlined in Figure 3 . The experiment was carried out with two independent biological replicates, and the data are summarized in Tables I and II and discussed further below. Detailed data can be found in Supplemental Table II. [[FIGURE]] We also purified and analyzed PGs from chromoplasts of red pepper fruits using similar procedures as for the chloroplasts. 1-D electrophoresis gel analysis showed that the chromoplast PG proteome was dominated by several fibrillins (bands 1 and 6), FBPAs (band 4), and others (Fig. 2B; Table III ). The proteomes of PG pepper chromoplasts were also analyzed by in-solution digestion and nanoLC-ESI-MS/MS, and MS data searched against the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) database and the Solanaceae database (downloaded from http://www.sgn.cornell.edu). Twenty-eight proteins were identified in the PGs of pepper chromoplasts (Table III). To allow better cross-correlation to the chloroplast PG data, protein accessions identified in the pepper PG were BLAST searched against the predicted Arabidopsis proteome (Table III). The two PG types have 12 proteins in common, as indicated in bold in Tables I and III (for discussion, see below). Composition of the PG proteome of red pepper chromoplasts *, Cannot distinguish between U197257 and 82130. To compare the PG proteomes with prolamellar bodies (CITATION) and possibly PGs in etioplasts, we grew rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings in complete darkness and purified the etioplasts. We then used the PG purification procedure to collect low-density lipid particles and membranes from these etioplasts. SDS-PAGE and MS analysis of the low-density fractions showed that they were dominated by protochlorophyllide reductase a/b (band 2), as expected in prolamellar bodies (CITATION), and a mixture of proteins unrelated to PGs in band 1 (Fig. 2B). Further analysis by in-solution digestion and nanoLC-ESI-MS/MS again identified protochlorophyllide reductase a/b with very high MOWSE scores and also identified one fibrillin (PAP10/FIB10) and an aldolase (homolog to At4g38970/At2g21330). This fibrillin was identified so far only in thylakoids (CITATION). No further overlap was observed with the PG proteomes from either chloroplasts or chromoplasts (data not shown). These low-density membranes thus mostly represented prolamellar bodies with some associated or contaminating proteins (data not shown) and not much plastoglubular protein.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0) was grown for 57 d under conditions optimized for vegetative growth (10 h at 250 μE m−2 s−1 per 14-h dark cycle at 25°C/17°C) or 50 d under standard conditions followed by 1 week in complete darkness or 1 week under continuous light stress (1,500 μE m−2 s−1). Plants were in their vegetative stage prior to bolting. The clpr2-1 mutant with reduced ClpR2 expression (A. Rudella, J.M. Alonso, J.R. Ecker, and K.J. van Wijk, unpublished data) was grown on soil at 100 μE m−2 s−1 under otherwise similar conditions as wild type. Ripe (red) pepper (Capsicum annuum) fruits were purchased from the local store; 30-d-old etiolated rice (Oryza sativa var. Nipponbare) seedlings were grown in complete darkness. Crude Arabidopsis chloroplast pellets and intact chloroplasts purified through Percoll gradients were obtained (as described in CITATION). These chloroplasts were resuspended in medium R (50 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 8, 5 mm MgCl2, and a cocktail of protease inhibitors, as in CITATION) with 0.5 m Suc and subsequently sonicated (two times for 5 s) or homogenized (Dounce homogenizer), followed by 25-min centrifugation at 150,000g. The resulting floating pad of crude PGs (based on the low density of PGs) was harvested and resuspended in 1 mL of medium R with 0.5 m Suc, overlaid first with 0.3 mL of medium R with 0.2 m Suc and then with 0.3 mL of medium R. After a 25-min centrifugation at 380,000g, pure PGs were collected and stored at −80°C for further analysis. PGs from chromoplasts of ripe pepper fruit or low-density membrane/particles from etioplasts from rice were purified through the same procedure. The PG protein yield per fresh weight of Arabidopsis leaves was about 3 times higher from dark-treated plants and 10 to 12 times higher from HL-treated plants, as compared to wild-type plants kept under optimal conditions. Chlorophyll concentrations and protein determinations were determined (as described in CITATION; CITATION). Proteins were separated on tricine-SDS-PAGE gels (12% acrylamide) and stained with the fluorescent dye SYPRO ruby. For in-solution digestion, proteins were precipitated for 12 to 15 h at −20°C (in batches of 5 or 10 μg) with 100% acetone. The precipitates were collected by centrifugation and washed with 80% acetone, 10% methanol, and 0.2% acetic acid and incubated at −20°C for 30 min. The pellets were centrifuged again, supernatants were removed, and residual acetone was removed by evaporation. The pellets were then dissolved with 20 μL DMSO and diluted to 50 mm NH4HCO3 and 30% DMSO. Trypsin was added to a final protease:protein ratio of 1:20, and proteins were digested overnight at 37°C. The peptide mixtures were dried down and resuspended in 5% formic acid (FA). For identification of proteins from SDS-PAGE gels, stained protein spots were manually excised, washed, and digested with trypsin (as described in CITATION). Proteins were analyzed by peptide mass fingerprinting (Arabidopsis 1-D gel samples only) using a MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer (Voyager DE-STR; Applied Biosystems) and/or by MS/MS using a CapLC-ESI-MS/MS (Q-TOF1; Waters). Peptides were loaded on a guard column (LC Packings; MGU-30-C18PM), followed by separation on a PepMap C18 reverse-phase nano column (LC Packings nan75-15-03-C18PM), using 90-min gradients with 95% water, 5% acetonitrile (ACN), 0.1% FA (solvent A), and 95% ACN, 5% water, 0.1% FA (solvent B), and a flow rate of 0.2 μL/min. MS/MS spectra were processed using Mascot distiller (version 1.1.2.0), and the proteins were identified by searching different databases using in-house Mascot (Matrix Science). MS/MS data from pepper proteins were searched against NCBI (all green plants) and the Solanaceae database (downloaded from http://www.sgn.cornell.edu). For Arabidopsis protein data, the Arabidopsis genome was searched (version 5.0 of ATH1.pep). For rice proteome data, we searched the OsGi database downloaded from The Institute for Genomic Research (TIGR; http://www.tigr.org). Criteria for positive identification from peptide mass fingerprinting are described by CITATION and for MS/MS data by CITATION. Identified proteins without unique peptides (i.e. peptides that are not shared with any other protein entries) were kept in the dataset, but denoted ambiguous. Stable-isotope labeling with HCHO and DCDO was done according to CITATION, with some changes. Peptides (2.25 μg) from each sample were dried down and resuspended with 100 μL labeling buffer (75% ACN, 25 mm MES-KOH, pH 5.5). The peptides were labeled by adding 2 μL of 20% HCHO or DCDO and 1 μL of 260 mm sodium cyanoborohydride, followed by incubation at room temperature for 45 min. The reactions were stopped by adding 1 μL of 4% NH4OH. The HCHO- or DCDO-labeled peptides from different treatments were mixed, dried down, and desalted using C18 microcolumns (CITATION). Peptides were eluted with 95% ACN and 5% FA, dried down, and resuspended in 5% FA for analysis. These mixtures of HCHO- and DCDO-labeled proteomes were analyzed for quantification in MS mode in the Q-TOF1. The area of the peptides was calculated using MassLynx 4.0, followed by normalizing the ratio of the total area of heavy and light isotope-labeled peptides to 1. The area of peptides originating from the same sequence (i.e. different charge states, oxidized Met, and, in a few cases, partially labeled peptides) were added together before calculating ratios between the different treatments to avoid biasing the quantification to a particular peptide. Peptide ratios that were outliers were removed and protein averages calculated. The average and sd of the two replicates were calculated (listed in Tables I and II; for more detail, see Supplemental Table II). Significant change in accumulation levels required that the average ratio (HL/dark, dark/control, or HL/control) was <0.75 sd or >1.33 + 1 sd. The construction of the Plastid Proteome Database (PPDB; http://ppdb.tc.cornell.edu) was originally described by CITATION. The PPDB interface was improved, curated information was added, and search functions expanded since its inception in 2004. Mascot scores, number of matching peptides, and highest peptide score for each identification as well as functional classification are listed. Ambiguous identifications of members of multigene families can be directly viewed in PPDB.
