!~ABS~! One of the most significant features of plant development is the way in which it can be elaborated and modulated throughout the life of the plant, an ability that is conferred by meristems. The Arabidopsis thaliana WUSCHEL gene (WUS), which encodes a homeodomain transcription factor, is required to maintain the stem cells in the shoot apical meristem in an undifferentiated state. The mechanism by which WUS prevents the differentiation of stem cells is unknown. We have characterized a meristem maintenance mutant in Antirrhinum majus and shown that it arises from a defect in the WUS orthologue ROSULATA (ROA). Detailed characterization of a semidominant roa allele revealed an essential role for the conserved C-terminal domain. Expression of either ROA or WUS lacking this domain causes a failure of meristem maintenance. The conserved domain mediates an interaction between WUS and two members of a small family of corepressor-like proteins in Arabidopsis. Our results suggest that WUS functions by recruiting transcriptional corepressors to repress target genes that promote differentiation, thereby ensuring stem cell maintenance.
!~RES~! Two independent roa alleles were available (CITATION), both of which grow as short bushy plants compared with the wild type (Figure 1A). roa-1 and roa-2 homozygous seedlings both develop normally until production of the first pair of leaves (Figures 1A and 1B). Mutants show a range of severity of phenotype at this stage, producing two, one, or no leaves. The petiole base is often ventralized and appears radially symmetrical (cf. P1 in Figures 1C and 1D), resulting in varying degrees of loss of leaf blade expansion (data not shown). In wild-type plants, the next pairs of leaves are initiated by the SAM (Figure 1D). In roa mutants, the next pairs of leaves arise in the axils of the cotyledons, as a result of loss of the SAM (Figure 1C). The centers of the mutant apices are occupied by the abnormal, radially symmetrical petioles of the first pair of leaves, separated by a few rows of cells. Most of the meristem is consumed after initiation of a single pair of leaves. However, after 2 weeks, a dome-shaped structure forms (Figure 1E) composed of small, actively dividing cells containing large nuclei (Figure 1F). Longitudinal optical sections through the dome reveal its layered pattern, resembling the L1, L2, and L3 organization of the shoot meristem (Figure 1F, inset). In older mutant plants, shoot meristems and individual leaves are initiated from the apical dome in a disorganized manner (Figure 1G). In some roa-2 plants, stripe(s) of cells, running across the dome between the petioles, differentiate as epidermal cells bearing trichomes (Figure 1H). [[FIGURE]] Organogenesis between the first pair of leaves is frequent in roa-1 mutants but rare in roa-2. The leaves and meristems that form in the apical position usually arrest at an early stage and do not contribute to further development. The roa mutants continue to develop from new SAMs initiated between the pairs of leaves in the axils of the cotyledons (P3 in Figure 1I). These meristems arise at the base of petioles that show only mild defects in their dorsoventral asymmetry. Severely defective, ventralized petioles do not carry new SAMs at their base. In the most dramatic cases, the organogenic zones separating the three first pairs of leaves become merged into a large structure bearing many aborted organs (Figure 1J), and meristem activity terminates. All new shoot meristems reproduce the same defects and terminate organized activity after producing one pair of leaves. This pattern of organogenesis and termination is constantly reiterated in mutant plants, creating a complex accumulation of hundreds of leaves. Flowering has never been observed in homozygous roa plants, although morphologically normal revertant shoots are occasionally found on roa-1 plants, indicating that roa-1 results from a transposon insertion. Thus, the principal feature of roa mutants is that the SAM is initiated normally but meristem maintenance is disrupted. After initiation, the SAM produces a pair of leaves and is almost completely consumed. The few remaining cells divide and replace the SAM by a large disorganized organogenic zone that behaves like a SAM peripheral zone. Further growth derives from SAMs that are repetitively gained and lost in the axils of older leaves. Interestingly, heterozygous roa-2 mutants also have a defect in meristem maintenance, although much weaker than that seen in homozygous mutants, so that SAM failure and the accompanying reinitiation of new SAMs is often observed at higher nodes (arrowhead in Figure 1A). Similarities between the roa and Arabidopsis wus phenotypes raised the possibility that roa-1 could be caused by a transposon insertion in a WUS-like homeobox gene. An Antirrhinum cDNA library was screened at low stringency with a WUS cDNA probe, and a 1075-bp clone was identified. The full-length cDNA was obtained by rapid amplification of cDNA ends and was used to probe a DNA gel blot containing genomic DNA from roa-1 and wild-type plants. Cosegregating polymorphisms were identified between the wild type and roa-1, and the banding pattern of heterozygous roa-1 plants was identical to the pattern generated from roa-1 revertant shoots (data not shown). Therefore, a transposon insertion in the ROA gene was responsible for the roa-1 allele. Thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR was used to isolate the transposon insertion site. Sequence analysis confirmed the presence of a Tam7-like transposable element in the second intron (Figure 2A). DNA gel blots did not reveal a polymorphism between the wild type and roa-2. Sequencing of the ROA gene in this allele demonstrated a duplication of four nucleotides (CTAG) in the third exon, resulting in a frameshift mutation (Figures 2A and 2B). [[FIGURE]] An alignment of ROA, WUS, and TER reveals that their homeodomains share 83% amino acid identity. Apart from a few short motifs, little sequence conservation is evident outside the homeodomain (Figure 2B). This is especially apparent in a comparison between ROA and TER, which show 100% identity within the homeodomain. As a result of the frameshift in roa-2, the last 61 amino acids of the mutant protein are predicted to be replaced by 13 amino acids from the +2 reading frame (Figure 2B). This mutation is not expected to abolish gene expression, and semiquantitative RT-PCR confirms that the ROA transcript is present at wild-type levels in roa-2 (Figure 2C). By contrast, no full-length ROA transcript can be detected in the roa-1 allele, suggesting that the transposon insertion abolishes transcript processing or stability. Three conserved domains lie within the final 65 amino acids of ROA (Figure 2B). One corresponds to a previously reported acidic domain (CITATION). The other two (TLPLFPMH and ASLELXLN) were also noted in sequence comparisons between WUS and TER (CITATION), and TLPLFPMH has been named the WUS box (CITATION). The fact that these domains are conserved between WUS, TER, and ROA, within a region of little overall sequence conservation, suggests that they are functionally important. The loss of these conserved domains in the roa-2 allele and its consequent mutant phenotype demonstrate that they are required for ROA activity. ROA expression in the vegetative apex is only detectable by RT-PCR (Figure 3A), but later expression becomes detectable by in situ analysis in inflorescences and young floral meristems. Expression is observed in the L3 but not the L1 and L2 cell layers in a small group of cells below the central zone of the meristem (Figures 3B and 3C). This expression pattern is reminiscent of that observed for WUS in Arabidopsis (see Figure 8B). After the initiation and separation of the sepal primordia, ROA expression is no longer visible in floral meristems. RT-PCR also revealed ROA transcript in petals, stamens, and carpels. No expression was detected by in situ hybridization in petals, where the signal may be too low and/or diffuse to be detected. ROA is expressed early in developing anthers, in the region that will later separate the two locules of each theca (Figure 3D). During stamen and pollen development, ROA transcript remains expressed in the same domain, including the septum and stomium, the two tissues controlling pollen dehiscence (Figure 3E). Because roa mutants never flower, the mutant is not informative with respect to the role of ROA in anther development. However, WUS expression in Arabidopsis stamens mirrors the expression of ROA (F. Deyle and T. Laux, unpublished data). The stamens formed in wus-1 mutants produce little pollen (CITATION), which suggests that ROA/WUS is important for male fertility. In carpels, ROA is expressed strongly at the upper end of developing ovules in the nucellus (Figures 3F and 3G). In Arabidopsis, expression of WUS in the nucellus nonautonomously regulates the development of integuments (CITATION). Fasciated mutants of Antirrhinum have been described previously (CITATION), although the affected genes are as yet uncharacterized. ROA expression expands laterally in the large inflorescence meristem of the classical fasciata mutant (Figure 3H and arrowheads in Figure 3I). Therefore, like WUS, the expression domain of ROA is enlarged in a mutant that has an abnormally large meristem. Based on mutant comparison and expression analysis, the ROA gene represents the functional homologue of WUS in Antirrhinum. [[FIGURE]] The semidominant nature of the roa-2 allele in Antirrhinum suggested that a truncated version of ROA, lacking the C-terminal domains, could act as a dominant negative allele. To test this notion, we recreated this allele in Arabidopsis using a truncated WUS fused to the glucocorticoid receptor, making its activity dependent on the presence of dexamethasone (35S:WUSΔ-GR; see Methods). Expression of inducible full-length WUS (35S:WUS-GR) has several clear morphological consequences. Compared with wild-type plants (Figures 4A to 4D), the leaves of induced 35S:WUS-GR (full-length WUS) plants are curled (Figure 4E), the plants are stunted (Figure 4F), and ectopic outgrowths are observed on the pedicels of the flowers (Figures 4G and 4H). However, the apical meristem is maintained, as it is in wild-type plants. Similar results have been reported previously using expression systems giving general overexpression (CITATION; CITATION). A different phenotype was reported when WUS was ectopically expressed using the CLV1 promoter, leading to the enlargement of the SAM (CITATION). The difference is likely to be attributable to the promoters used and suggests that meristem enlargement is dependent on either spatial or quantitative differences in WUS expression. [[FIGURE]] In contrast with 35S:WUS-GR, induced 35S:WUSΔ-GR (truncated WUS) plants show meristem termination (Figure 4I and arrowhead in Figure 4J), similar to that observed in homozygous and heterozygous roa-2 and in wus-1 (Figures 4M and 4N). Uninduced 35S:WUSΔ-GR plants display an entirely wild-type morphology (Figure 4I, inset). This finding suggests that 35S:WUSΔ-GR acts as a dominant negative allele, inhibiting endogenous WUS function in the shoot meristem. However, 35S:WUSΔ-GR flowers appear normal (Figures 4K and 4L), in contrast with the occasional flowers produced in wus-1 mutants, which lack some organs and terminate development early (Figures 4O and 4P). Expression of a truncated version of WUS, therefore, can recapitulate the apical meristem termination aspects of the phenotypes conferred by the wus and roa mutants, but it has no influence on flower development. Expression of WUS, like that of ROA in Antirrhinum, is lower in the seedling SAM and highest in the floral meristems. To test the possibility that 35S:WUSΔ-GR is simply unable to counteract the presence of larger amounts of endogenous wild-type WUS in floral meristems, we analyzed the effects of 35S:WUSΔ-GR in homozygous and heterozygous wus-1 backgrounds. In neither case was 35S:WUSΔ-GR capable of influencing flower development (Figure 5C). It remains possible that, even in heterozygous wus-1 mutants, WUS expression in the floral meristem is too high for the truncated WUS to have an observable effect. Alternatively, the truncated WUS protein could be less able to interfere in flower development as a result of WUS acting in different ways in the SAM and floral meristem. In either case, the conserved C-terminal domain is clearly required for WUS function in the floral meristem, because induced 35S:WUS-GR but not 35S:WUSΔ-GR can complement the loss-of-organ defect observed in wus-1 (Figures 5C to 5E). [[FIGURE]] Because the conserved C-terminal sequences are required to complement the wus-1 mutant and the expression of truncated WUS lacking them produces a dominant wus-like meristem termination phenotype, it was possible that the C-terminal sequences are involved in functionally essential protein–protein interactions. In this model, truncated WUS would be capable of performing part of the role of WUS, such as binding DNA via its homeodomain, but incapable of making the further protein–protein interactions necessary for WUS activity. Thus, truncated WUS would be capable of competing with endogenous, full-length WUS and acting as a dominant negative allele. To test this, we used the yeast two-hybrid assay to identify Arabidopsis proteins that can interact with full-length but not truncated WUS. Using the full-length WUS bait and a normalized yeast two-hybrid cDNA library constructed from Arabidopsis apices, 4.5 million colonies were screened. Sixty-one positive colonies came through all rounds of selection, and the prey cDNAs present in these positive colonies were identified by hybridization and sequencing. The 61 candidate interactors corresponded to just two distinct but related cDNAs, one of which was isolated 60 times. The two isolated prey cDNAs (At1g15750 and At3g15880; renamed WSIP1 and WSIP2 here) represent different members of a small gene family in Arabidopsis and other plant species (Figure 7C). Both WUS-interacting proteins are predicted to contain N-terminal LisH (for Lis1-homologous) and CTLH (for C-terminal to LisH) domains, a Pro-rich region, and two domains containing multiple tandem WD repeat motifs (Figures 6C and 7A). The LisH domain was originally identified as a conserved motif in a series of proteins associated with human disease (CITATION) and subsequently has been shown to promote dimerization, tetramerization, and interaction with other proteins (CITATION). The CTLH domain is a conserved motif that is sometimes found associated with LisH domains (CITATION). The LisH domain corresponds to the first half of a domain originally called LUFS that is found at the N-terminal end of the Arabidopsis transcriptional corepressor LEUNIG (LUG), which also contains a C-terminal WD repeat motif (CITATION). Tandem WD repeats are found in a variety of proteins with a wide range of unrelated functions, where they combine to provide an interface for specific protein–protein interactions (CITATION). It is striking that several well-characterized transcriptional corepressors contain an N-terminal LisH domain and a C-terminal WD repeat domain, including yeast Sif2p (CITATION; CITATION), human TBL1 and TBLR1 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), and Arabidopsis LUG (CITATION). The corepressors Groucho (Drosophila) and TUP1 (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) also contain C-terminal WD repeats and N-terminal tetramerization domains, although their N-terminal domains are unrelated both to each other and to the LisH domain (CITATION; CITATION). Transcriptional corepressors rely on specific interactions with transcription factors to identify their target genes (CITATION). The organizational similarity of the WUS-interacting proteins to these diverse transcriptional corepressors strongly suggests that they are recruited by WUS to repress the expression of target genes that need to remain inactive in the stem cell niche. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In both cases, the cDNAs isolated in the two-hybrid screen were found to be truncated; the isolated cDNAs are referred to here as WSIP1Δ1 and WSIP2Δ1 to distinguish them from the WSIP1 full-length cDNA, which was subsequently obtained from the ABRC stock center. Both isolated prey clones and full-length WSIP1 were tested in the yeast two-hybrid system for interaction with a variety of full-length and truncated WUS proteins. Interaction was observed in all cases, but only when the expressed WUS protein contained the conserved C-terminal domains (Figure 6A). The specificity of the interaction between WSIP1 and WUS was confirmed by GST pulldown in vitro (Figure 6B), but in this assay a small degree of interaction was also observed between WSIP1Δ1 and a C-terminally truncated WUS. Therefore, WUS is capable of interacting with at least two related Arabidopsis proteins, and yeast two-hybrid and pulldown evidence suggests that the conserved C-terminal domains of WUS are important for this interaction. A similar result was obtained when WSIP1 was tested in the yeast two-hybrid screen for interaction with Antirrhinum ROA; once again, a strong interaction was obtained, but the interaction was dependent on the presence of the C-terminal conserved domains of ROA (Figure 6A). These data support our dominant negative model to explain the phenotype observed on expression of truncated WUS (in transgenic Arabidopsis experiments) and ROA (in the Antirrhinum roa-2 allele). The truncated versions of WSIP1 and WSIP2, which were identified in the yeast two-hybrid screen, both lacked the WD domains, suggesting that these are dispensable for WUS interaction. To test this idea, a series of WSIP1 truncations were tested in a GST pulldown assay for interaction with full-length WUS. Full-length WSIP1 and WSIP1Δ1 retained the ability to interact with WUS, but all deletions in which the LisH domain was removed failed to interact (Figure 6C). These results demonstrate that the interaction between WSIP1 and WUS requires the C-terminal conserved domain of WUS and the N-terminal LisH domain of WSIP1. Published microarray analyses revealed that both WSIP1 and WSIP2 are expressed throughout Arabidopsis development (CITATION) in all tissues tested. In situ hybridization was used to analyze the temporal and spatial coexpression of WSIP1 and WUS in greater detail, because coexpression would be expected of genes encoding interacting proteins (Figures 8A to 8F). In situ hybridization verified initial RT-PCR findings (data not shown) that WSIP1 is strongly expressed in inflorescences and flowers. Expression of WSIP1 is most strongly observed in inflorescences and floral meristems (Figure 8A). Expression is also observed in developing anthers and ovules (Figures 8C and 8E). In comparison, WUS expression is detected at lower levels and in more restricted tissues (Figures 8B, 8D, and 8F). However, expression of WUS and WSIP1 overlaps in SAMs, floral meristems, and developing carpels. Coexpression of WUS and the WUS-interacting proteins is consistent with an interaction in vivo. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Two Antirrhinum majus mutants, rosulata and rosulans, initially described as nonflowering, compact plants lacking stem elongation (CITATION) (Figure 1), were obtained from the Gatersleben seed collection. roslulata was identified as a recessive mutant, and rosulans was described as semidominant. Our genetic and molecular analysis revealed that rosulata and rosulans are allelic, and we have renamed them roa-1 and roa-2, respectively. The semidominance of the roa-2 (rosulans) allele displays low penetrance and is influenced by the culture temperature. A third mutant, originally named rosularis (CITATION), was also characterized and found to be allelic and phenotypically identical to roa-2 and to share an identical lesion in the ROA gene (data not shown). The fasciata line was kindly provided by Richard Waites (University of York). Arabidopsis thaliana transformation was performed in Columbia plants by the floral dip method (CITATION). The previously described wus-1 mutant (CITATION) was used in the complementation experiment. Arabidopsis seeds were cold-treated at 4°C for 2 d before culture in a growth chamber. For the trichostatin A experiment, plants were grown in Petri dishes on Murashige and Skoog medium, 3% sucrose, and 1% agar, pH 5.6, with or without 10 μM trichostatin A (Sigma-Aldrich; T8552). All plants were grown at 24°C with a 16-h photoperiod. The ROA cDNA was isolated from a λNM1149 inflorescence cDNA library using a full-length WUS probe. The 5′ end was obtained by RNA ligase–mediated rapid amplification of cDNA ends (Ambion FirstChoice). The ROA cDNA was used to hybridize a DNA gel blot with wild-type, roa-1, and roa-2 homozygous and heterozygous samples as well as roa-1 revertant shoot DNA, digested with EcoRI, HindIII, or BclI. Polymorphisms were identified in roa-1 samples with all three enzymes used. Heterozygosity of the polymorphisms in the roa-1 revertant samples revealed the presence of a transposon in the ROA second intron. The ROA genomic sequence was obtained by PCR on genomic DNA using cDNA flanking primers. Thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR (CITATION) was used to isolate the roa-1 transposon insertion site. ROA expression was assessed by semiquantitative RT-PCR on first-strand cDNA (Omniscript reverse transcriptase; Qiagen) using primers F12 (5′-AACAAGTTCTCTAACATGAATAGTG-3′), which spans the first intron, and R8 (5′-ATTGAGGGTGAGTTCCAGTGAAG-3′) in the final exon. Material for in situ hybridization was prepared and hybridized with digoxigenin-labeled RNA probes as described (CITATION). ROA and WUS templates for transcription were either full-length or N-terminally truncated, removing the homeodomain coding region. Both probes gave the same expression pattern. The WSIP1 RNA probe comprised only the C-terminal 280 bp of coding sequence, a region that shows maximum sequence divergence across the family. PCR-generated full-length and C-terminal truncated WUS primers (5′-ACTCTAGACTGACTATGGAGCCGCCACAGCATCAG-3′ and 5′-TTAGGATCCGCGTTCAGACGTAGCTCAAGAG-3′ or 5′-ATTAGGATCCGCACCTTCTAGACCAAACAGAGG-3′) (Figure 2) were inserted into pBi-ΔGR (CITATION) to create in-frame C-terminal GR fusions. The use of the pBi-ΔGR system enables nuclear localization to be regulated by the addition of dexamethasone (CITATION). Dexamethasone (Sigma-Aldrich; D-1756) was prepared as a 10 mM stock solution in 100% ethanol and stored at −20°C. Transformed lines were sprayed five times per week with a solution of 30 μM dexamethasone and 0.005% Silwet L-77 in pure water. Spraying commenced 1 week after germination and was continued throughout the experiment. Samples for scanning electron microscopy were fixed, dehydrated, critical point-dried, dissected, and sputter-coated with gold as described (CITATION) and observed with a Camscan series III scanning electron microscope. Confocal microscopy samples were stained with propidium iodide and analyzed according to CITATION using a Leica TCS SP microscope. A range of WUS and ROA bait plasmids, including full-length and two truncated versions, were produced (Figure 6) by PCR with the addition of flanking EcoRI and BamHI restriction sites: WUS (primers WUSF1 and WUSR1), WUSΔ (primers WUSF1 and WUSROL), ΔWUS (primers WUSF3 and WUSR1), and ΔROA (primers ROAF2 and ROAR1). The vectors pBDWUS to pBDΔWUSΔ were produced by ligating the EcoRI-BamHI DNA fragments into pGBT9 (Clontech) in-frame with the GAL4 DNA binding domain. All vectors were transformed into the Y187 and AH109 yeast strains and tested for autoactivation. pBDWUS was found to be a weak autoactivator, but this could be dampened by adding 5 mM 3-aminotriazole (3AT) to the culture medium. A full-length WSIP1 prey vector was constructed by recombining a PCR-generated fragment into pDEST-GAD (pGADT7-Rec [Clontech] Gateway-enabled vector). The vector was transformed into the AH109 yeast strain. Yeast strain Y187 containing the bait vector pBDWUS was mated overnight with an amplified normalized Arabidopsis apical meristem library (pGADT7-Rec) in the yeast mating strain AH109. The library was kindly provided by Simona Masiero and Hans Sommer (Max Planck Institute, Köln, Germany). Mating and screening were done according to the Clontech MATCHMAKER protocol A (K1615-1). Yeast diploid selection was performed on minimal medium (SD/−Ade/−His/−Leu/−Trp/+X-α-Gal) plus 5 mM 3AT, and ∼1500 putative positives were selected. Subsequent stringent testing on 50 mM 3AT, hybridization, sequencing, and retransformation into the bait vector were used to reduce this to 61 distinct prey cDNAs, of which 60 corresponded to WSIP1 and 1 corresponded to WSIP2. Bait (Y187) and prey (AH109) yeast strains were mated by growing 5 μL of bait strain culture on solid medium for 1 d, then overlaying 5 μL of prey strain culture and incubating at 30°C for 2 d. Mated diploids were selected on SD/−Leu/−Trp for 4 d. Interaction was tested by growing 5 μL of the resuspended diploid strain (100 cells/μl) on minimal medium (SD/−Ade/−His/−Leu/−Trp/+X-α-Gal) plus 20 mM 3AT at 30°C for 4 d. A distance tree was generated using PAUP 4.0b (CITATION) from a ClustalX full-length protein alignment using the neighbor-joining algorithm (see Supplemental Table 1 online for alignment). LUG was used as an outgroup. Branch bootstrap values are indicated based on 1000 replications. Radiolabeled WUS and WUSΔ proteins were produced with the TNT coupled reticulocyte lysate systems (Promega) using 0.5 μg of pASL/WUS and pASL/WUSΔ expression vectors, respectively. Both vectors were constructed by digesting pBDWUS and pBDWUSΔ with EcoRI and BamHI and ligating the fragments generated into pASL514 (CITATION). A range of GST fusion WSIP1 constructs were used, including full-length and five truncated versions (Δ1 to Δ5) (Figure 6). The six gene fragments were produced by PCR with the addition of flanking restriction sites or Gateway sequences. All fragments were cloned into pGEX-4T-1 (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) or recombined into pDEST-GEX (a Gateway-enabled pGEX derivative) in-frame with the GST sequence. All vectors were transformed into Escherichia coli BL21 cells (Stratagene). Fusion proteins were produced and GST pulldowns performed in combination with the radiolabeled WUS and WUSΔ proteins as described previously (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers AY162209 (ROA), AF481951 (TER), At2g17950 (WUS), At1g15750 (WSIP1), and At3g15880 (WSIP2). The following material is available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Table 1. ClustalX Full Protein Alignment.
