!~ABS~! AtCyp59 and its orthologs from different organisms belong to a family of modular proteins consisting of a peptidyl-prolyl cis–trans isomerase (PPIase) domain, followed by an RNA recognition motif (RRM), and a C-terminal domain enriched in charged amino acids. AtCyp59 was identified in a yeast two-hybrid screen as an interacting partner of the Arabidopsis SR protein SCL33/SR33. The interaction with SCL33/SR33 and with a majority of Arabidopsis SR proteins was confirmed by in vitro pull-down assays. Consistent with these interactions, AtCyp59 localizes to the cell nucleus, but it does not significantly colocalize with SR proteins in nuclear speckles. Rather, it shows a punctuate localization pattern resembling transcription sites. Indeed, by using yeast two-hybrid, in vitro pull-down, and immunoprecipitation assays, we found that AtCyp59 interacts with the C-terminal domain (CTD) of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II. Ectopic expression of the tagged protein in Arabidopsis cell suspension resulted in highly reduced growth that is most probably due to reduced phosphorylation of the CTD. Together our data suggest a possible function of AtCyp59 in activities connecting transcription and pre-mRNA processing. We discuss our data in the context of a dynamic interplay between transcription and pre-mRNA processing. 
!~RES~! A partial cDNA clone encoding the C-terminal half of the Arabidopsis AtCyp59 (Fig. 1A) was isolated in a two-hybrid screen with the SR protein SCL33/SR33 as the bait. The full-length cDNA was cloned by RT-PCR performed with total RNA isolated from mixed Arabidopsis tissues and oligonucleotides derived from the partial cDNA (3′ oligo) and genomic sequence (5′ oligo). Sequence analysis revealed an open reading frame encoding a protein of 506 amino acids. The N terminus of the encoded protein is occupied by the PPIase domain, followed by an RRM. The C-terminal domain is enriched in basic and acidic amino acids containing several RS, arginine/aspartate (RD), or arginine/glutamate (RE) dipeptides (Fig. 1A,B). In addition to these three domains, AtCyp59 contains a CX2CX4HX4C zinc knuckle located immediately after the RRM (Fig. 1A,B). As revealed by RT-PCR analysis, the gene encoding AtCyp59 is expressed in all major Arabidopsis organs (Romano et al. 2004).  Database searches revealed that proteins with sequence and structure similarities to AtCyp59 are encoded in the majority of eukaryotic genomes. Proteins from different organisms show particularly high sequence conservation in the RRM domains and less so in the PPIase domain (Fig. 2; Table 1; data not shown), whereas the C-terminal domains are similar only in terms of being enriched in basic and acidic amino acids and in some cases in serines. The Arabidopsis protein and its plant orthologs contain a zinc knuckle between the RRM and the C-terminal domain. As this motif has not been found in any homologous protein from different organisms, this feature seems to be plant-specific. Although proteins similar to AtCyp59 are encoded in the majority of fungal genomes available at the NCBI BLAST server (Fig. 2; Table 1; data not shown) they are not found in the genome of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and other Saccharomyces species except S. kluyveri. Because AtCyp59 homologs are encoded in genomes of S. kluyveri, Eremothecium gossypii, Kluyveromyces waltii, Debaryomyces hansenii, and Yarrowia lipolytica (Table 1), this does not seem to be a characteristic of the order Saccharomycotina or genus Saccharomyces. However, the predicted proteins from genomic sequences of E. gossypii, K. waltii, S. kluyveri, and D. hansenii are shorter and do not contain the C-terminal charged domain (Table 1). Analyses of sequences downstream of the RRM from these organisms did not reveal a potential coding capacity for an RS/RD/RE-rich domain, indicating that the predicted proteins are correct. In contrast, the protein from Y. lipolytica, which also belongs to Saccharomycotina, does contain a C-terminal domain with many RS/RD/RE dipeptides (Table 1). Reasons for this divergence in fungi and consequences thereof are not clear. Phylogenetic analysis of all proteins listed in Table 1 revealed that the proteins from E. gossypii, K. waltii, S. kluyveri, D. hansenii, and Pichia angusta cluster together, whereas the Y. lipolytica protein appears as a separate branch but closest to the aforementioned group (data not shown). This is also obvious from alignments of the PPIase and RRM domains, which show that these two domains from E. gossypii, K. waltii, S. kluyveri, D. hansenii, P. angusta, and Y. lipolytica are the most divergent (Fig. 2; Table 1; data not shown). Similarly to Saccharomycotina, a mixed situation is found in proteins from Apicomplexa (Table 1). Proteins from Theileria annulata and Toxoplasma gondii do contain an RS/RD-rich domain, whereas proteins from Cryptosporidium hominis and Cryptosporidium parvum do not. In addition, proteins from Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium yoelii yoelii show very low sequence conservation in the PPIase domain compared to other proteins and they are much longer due to an extended C-terminal domain (Table 1).  AtCyp59 was identified in a yeast two-hybrid screen as an interacting partner of the Arabidopsis SR protein SCL33/SR33 (data not shown). To examine whether it binds SCL33/SR33 in vitro and whether other Arabidopsis SR proteins are also able to interact with AtCyp59, pull-down experiments were performed. AtCyp59 was overexpressed in Escherichia coli as GST fusion and purified (Fig. 3A). Protein extracts from Arabidopsis protoplasts expressing Arabidopsis HA-tagged SR proteins were incubated with glutathione Sepharose beads coated with GST-AtCyp59. After washing, bound proteins were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting with anti-HA antibody. As AtCyp59 and SR proteins both contain RRMs, protein extracts were treated with RNase A in order to avoid indirect RNA-mediated interactions. Figure 3B (lanes 3) demonstrates that all tested Arabidopsis SR proteins, including SCL33/SR33, were able to interact with AtCyp59 in vitro. This, together with the fact that none of the SR proteins analyzed interacted with the beads coated with GST (Fig. 3B, lanes 2) or with the beads only (data not shown), suggests that AtCyp59 could potentially interact with many SR proteins in vivo. Finally, to exclude the possibility that AtCyp59 is precipitating large aggregates of splicing factors, we performed pull-down experiments with several HA-tagged splicing factors (U1 and U2 snRNP-specific proteins) as well as with UBP1, an hnRNP-like protein from tobacco (Lambermon et al. 2000). As shown in Figure 3B, none of these proteins was precipitated with GST-AtCyp59, further indicating that AtCyp59 interacts specifically with SR proteins.  As the major function of RS domains of SR proteins is in protein–protein interactions, and the length of RS domain and the number of RS repeats seems to be proportional to their splicing activation ability (Graveley 2000; Sanford et al. 2003), we asked which domain of AtCyp59 is necessary for the interactions with SR proteins. Three deletion mutants of AtCyp59 fused to GST (Fig. 3C) were overexpressed in E. coli, purified (Fig. 3D), and used for pull-down experiments with selected members of each Arabidopsis SR protein subfamily (Lorković et al. 2004a) expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts. The PPIase domain alone (del1) (Fig. 3E, lane 4) and in combination with either RRM (del2) (Fig. 3E, lane 5) or RRM and zinc knuckle (del3) (Fig. 3E, lane 6) were not able to interact with SR proteins in vitro (Fig. 3E). This demonstrates that the C-terminal RS/RD(E) domain of AtCyp59 is necessary for efficient interaction with all tested SR proteins. Also, these results further indicate that interactions between SR proteins and AtCyp59 are not RNA-mediated.  As AtCyp59 contains an RRM and a Zn knuckle, we asked whether it binds RNA in vitro. RNA binding properties of AtCyp59 were determined by UV cross-linking of a GST fusion protein (Fig. 3A) to a synthetic RNA Syn7 (Goodall and Filipowicz 1989). Figure 4 (lane 1) demonstrates that AtCyp59 could be efficiently cross-linked to RNA in vitro. To establish the nucleotide specificity of binding, competition of RNA binding with four ribohomopolymers was performed. Poly(G) and poly(C) were able to compete with the RNA, whereas poly(A) and poly(U) did not show any effect on binding of AtCyp59 to RNA even at a 400-fold molar excess over radiolabeled RNA. From these studies we conclude that AtCyp59 is an RNA binding cyclophilin with preferences for GC-rich sequences. RNA binding is most probably mediated by RRM, although it is not excluded that Zn knuckle and RS/RD(E) domains might also contribute to RNA binding.  The interaction of AtCyp59 with SR proteins prompted us to investigate whether AtCyp59 is also a nuclear protein. Transient expression of the GFP- and HA-tagged protein in tobacco and Arabidopsis protoplasts was used to address this question. As shown in Figure 5A,B, GFP-tagged AtCyp59 was found in nuclei of both tobacco leaf mesophyll- and Arabidopsis cell suspension-derived protoplasts with no GFP signal detected in the cytoplasm. In contrast, GFP alone was found in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus (Fig. 5A, left panel). The intracellular distribution of AtCyp59 was also studied by cellular fractionation (Lambermon et al. 2000). Lysates prepared from Arabidopsis cell suspension protoplasts transiently expressing GFP- or HA-tagged AtCyp 59 were separated into nuclear and cytoplasmic fractions, and the distribution of AtCyp59-GFP and AtCyp59-HA was determined by Western blotting. As shown in Figure 5C, both GFP- and HA-tagged AtCyp59 were predominantly found in the nuclear fraction. Analysis of the distribution of the nuclear RNA binding protein UBP1 (Lambermon et al. 2000) indicated that the fractionation procedure was quantitative, as UBP1 was found mainly in the nuclear fraction as reported previously (Lambermon et al. 2000; Fig. 5C, bottom panel).  We also determined the sequence requirements for nuclear localization of AtCyp59 by constructing three deletion mutants (see Materials and Methods; Fig. 3C) fused to GFP and HA tags. Cellular fractionation of protoplasts transiently expressing HA-tagged deletion mutants showed that the deletion of the RS/RD(E) domain results in a predominantly cytoplasmic localization of the protein, although some nuclear localization has also been observed (Fig. 5D, del3 panel, lane 3). Further deletions from the C terminus (del2 and del1) resulted in cytoplasmic localization of tagged proteins (Fig. 5D, cf. lanes 2 and 3 in del1 and del2 panels). Again, analysis of the distribution of the nuclear RNA binding protein UBP1 indicated that the fractionation procedure was quantitative as UBP1 was found in the nuclear fraction as reported previously (Fig. 5D, lower panels). Confocal microscopy analyses of transiently transformed Arabidopsis protoplasts expressing GFP-tagged deletions revealed the same results (data not shown). Thus, we conclude that AtCyp59 is a nuclear RNA binding cyclophilin, and that for efficient nuclear localization the C-terminal RS/RD(E) domain is required.  As revealed by laser scanning confocal microscopy, plant SR proteins, like other splicing factors, localize in the nucleus in a specific pattern called speckles (Ali et al. 2003; Docquier et al. 2004; Fang et al. 2004; Lorković and Barta 2004; Lorković et al. 2004a). AtCyp59 was found to interact with SR proteins; therefore we asked whether it is also localized in a speckled pattern. Confocal microscopy analysis of transiently expressed AtCyp59-GFP fusion protein in tobacco protoplasts revealed a punctuated nucleoplasmic pattern (Fig. 6A). Several thousand dots have been observed per nucleus with an average size of 0.2–0.4 μm. In contrast to tobacco nuclei, AtCyp59 showed a diffuse localization in the nucleoplasm of Arabidopsis protoplasts that has been also observed for SR proteins in this cell type (Fig. 6B). In addition, in both cell types we regularly observed low levels of nucleolar localization of AtCyp59 (Fig. 6A,B,D). As these patterns clearly differed from that observed with SR proteins (Ali et al. 2003; Docquier et al. 2004; Fang et al. 2004; Lorković and Barta 2004; Lorković et al. 2004a) (Fig. 6A, cf. upper and lower panels), we performed cotransformation of tobacco protoplasts with plasmids expressing AtCyp59-GFP and SR proteins fused to RFP. Confocal microscopy analysis of cotransformed protoplasts showed that AtCyp59 does not significantly colocalize with SR proteins in nuclear speckles. Partial colocalization has been observed with SCL33, however, not to the extent observed in cells coexpressing two different SR proteins (Z.J. Lorković , J. Hilscher, and A. Barta, unpubl.). In cells coexpressing SRp30-RFP or SRp34-RFP and AtCyp59-GFP only low levels of colocalization were observed. Rather, AtCyp59 dots have been found to localize on the periphery of speckles in which SR proteins are found (Fig. 6C). Additional colocalization studies with fluorescent protein fusion markers for nucleoli or Cajal bodies (Lorković et al. 2004a) revealed that AtCyp59 does not localize into Cajal bodies, but it does, at least in some cells, localize to nucleoli (Fig. 6D; data not shown). This is consistent with the observation that in some cells expressing AtCyp59-GFP alone we regularly observed nucleolar localization.  The punctuated nuclear localization pattern, where AtCyp59 localizes next to splicing speckles, resembles transcription sites. This observation raised the interesting possibility that AtCyp59 might interact with the transcriptional machinery as well. It is known that the CTD domain of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II serves as an interacting platform for many proteins involved in RNA processing, thereby providing a link between transcription and RNA processing (Hirose and Manley 2000; Bentley 2002; Neugebauer 2002; Proudfoot et al. 2002; Kornblihtt et al. 2004; Zorio and Bentley 2004). This, together with our finding that AtCyp59 interacts with SR proteins in vitro, prompted the question of whether AtCyp59 interacts with the CTD of RNA pol II as well. The Arabidopsis CTD and AtCyp59 were cloned into yeast two-hybrid vectors and cotransformed into a yeast reporter strain. Possible interaction of the two proteins was monitored by the activation of His and β-galactosidase reporter genes. As shown in Figure 7A, only cells coexpressing AtCyp59 fused to the activation domain, and CTD fused to the DNA binding domain were able to grow on medium lacking histidine and also showed activation of the second reporter gene, β-gal, indicative for a direct interaction between these two proteins. Control experiments were performed to exclude the possibility that CTD fused to the DNA binding domain activates reporter genes by itself. However, neither CTD fused to the activation domain nor CTD fused to the DNA binding domain alone was able to activate reporter genes, indicating that the interaction of AtCyp59 and CTD is specific.  Interaction between the two proteins was also studied by in vitro pull-down assays. To do so, the Arabidopsis CTD was overexpressed in E. coli as GST fusion and purified on glutathione Sepharose beads (Fig. 7B, left panel). Beads bound with GST-AtCTD were incubated with protein extracts prepared from either tobacco protoplasts transiently expressing AtCyp59-HA (Fig. 7B, upper right panel, lane 3) or E. coli cells expressing AtCyp59-HA (Fig. 7B, lower right panel, lane 3). As evident from Figure 7B (two right panels), AtCyp59-HA was able to bind recombinant CTD in vitro (lanes 3), thereby confirming interaction between these two proteins observed in the yeast two-hybrid assay.  We also investigated whether AtCyp59 and RNA pol II interact in vivo in plant cells. Arabidopsis protoplasts were transiently transformed with the plasmid expressing GFP-tagged AtCyp59, and the protein extracts were subjected to immunoprecipitation with the anti-GFP antibody. In order to avoid indirect RNA-mediated interaction, protein extracts were treated with RNase A (10 μg/100 μL). Proteins retained on the beads were simultaneously analyzed by Western blotting with antibodies against GFP and CTD. Clearly, AtCyp59-GFP coprecipitated significant amounts of RNA pol II (Fig. 7C, lane 2). As neither AtCyp59-GFP nor CTD were found to bind to protein A Sepharose beads alone (Fig. 7C, lane 3), we conclude that these interactions reflect the situation in vivo. Taken together with the yeast two-hybrid assay and the pull-down interactions described above, these results provide evidence for an interaction between AtCyp59 and RNA pol II (CTD).  As we had shown that AtCyp59 interacts with SR proteins and the CTD of the RNA pol II we wanted to know whether it is a component of a larger protein complex. Therefore, we established transgenic Arabidopsis cell lines expressing TAP-tagged (Puig et al. 2001) AtCyp59 from the CaMV 35S promoter. This system should produce high levels of the protein of interest, which should allow purification of the putative protein complex and analysis of proteins by mass spectrometry (Z.J. Lorković and A. Barta, unpubl.). About 20 independent, kanamycin-resistant, transgenic cell lines were obtained, but only three of them expressed low levels of tagged AtCyp59 (Fig. 8A; data not shown). This is in contrast to two other plant proteins, like PRH75 (Lorković et al. 2004a) and U1-snRNP-specific protein U1–70K, for which all tested cell lines expressed high amounts of the tagged protein (Fig. 8A, lower panel; 8B, top panel, lane 4). In addition, we observed that all transgenic cell lines expressing AtCyp59 were growing very slowly.  The CTD of RNA pol II undergoes a complex pattern of phosphorylation/dephosphorylation steps during the transcription cycle (see Discussion). As cell lines expressing TAP-tagged AtCyp59 showed a growth defect and AtCyp59 interacts with the CTD, it was of interest to analyze the CTD phosphorylation status in these cell lines. Tagged proteins were detected with anti-HA antibody (Fig. 8B, top panel), and RNA pol II was detected using antibodies specific to CTD phosphorylated at serine 5 (H14) ( Fig. 8B, second panel) or CTD phsophorylated at serines 2 and 5 (8WG16) (Fig. 8B, fourth panel). Both 8WG16 and H14 antibodies stained the RNA pol II much more weakly in cell lines expressing AtCyp59 (Fig. 8B, lanes 1–3) compared to control cells expressing TAP-tagged U1–70K (Fig. 8B, top panel, lane 4), indicating a reduced phosphorylation of the CTD in case of even a little overexpression of AtCyp59. A similar result was obtained with antibodies against phosphorylated serine 2 (data not shown). Analysis of the same membranes with the antibodies against α-tubulin revealed that equal amounts of proteins were loaded in each lane. These results indicate that AtCyp59 level is tightly regulated, as already small additional amounts of AtCyp59 are detrimental for cell growth, and that AtCyp59 somehow is influencing regulation of CTD phosphorylation. 
!~MM~! The cDNA clone encoding Arabidopsis AtCyp59 protein was amplified by RT-PCR from total RNA isolated from mixed flower and leaf tissue. Oligonucleotides ATGTCAGTTCTTATTGTGACG AGC and TATCTCTAGACTCTTCACGGCGT were derived from the genomic sequence (At1g53720) and from the partial cDNA sequence obtained in a two-hybrid screen with Arabidopsis SR protein SCL33/SR33. The PCR product was cloned into pGEM-T easy (Promega) and sequenced (see Results).  Plasmid for overexpression of the AtCyp59 protein in bacteria was obtained by cloning the corresponding PCR product into pGEX-4T-1 (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). cDNA was amplified by using the oligonucleotides TATTGCGGATCCATGTCAGTTCTTATTGTGAC G and GTCAGCGGATCCTCATCTATCCCTTCTCTCATG, which introduce a BamHI (in bold) site in front of the ATG codon and after the stop codon. The PCR product was cut with BamHI and ligated into the corresponding site of pGEX-4T-1, resulting in pGST-AtCyp59. Overexpression plasmids encoding GST-AtCyp59D1, GST-AtCyp59D2, and GST-AtCyp59D3 were created by cloning corresponding PCR EcoRI/Sal fragments into pGEX-4T-1. The 5′ oligonucleotide used for all three deletion mutants was GACTAGGAATTCAT GTCAGTTCTTATTGTGACG, and the 3′ oligonucleotides used were GACTAGGTCGACTCACAACAGCACTTGAATGGGC (del1), GAC TAGGTCGACTCAGGACACACTCTGACTGAAATC (del2), and GA CTAGGTCGACTCAATGACTATTATGCTTGGGGGT (del3).  To generate plant expression plasmids encoding hemagglutinine (HA), green fluorescent protein (GFP), and red fluorescent protein (RFP) tagged AtCyp59 protein, the coding region of AtCyp59 was amplified by using oligonucleotides: The 5′ oligo used was TGCGGGTCGACAATAAACCATGTCAGTTCTTATTGTGACGAG CCT, and the 3′ oligo used was TATTGCGGATCCTCTATCCCTTC TCTCATGTC, which introduces a SalI (bold) site and a plant translation consensus sequence (italics) in front of the ATG codon and a BamHI site in place of the stop codon, respectively. The PCR product was cut with SalI and BamHI and ligated into corresponding sites of pDEDH-HA, pDEDH-GFP, and pDEDH-RFP (Lorković et al. 2004a), resulting in pAtCyp59-HA, pAtCyp59-GFP, and pAt-Cyp59-RFP. Plant expression plasmids encoding AtCyp59 deletion mutants fused to HA and GFP were created as described above by using the above 5′ oligo for all three deletion mutants. Reverse oligos used were GACTAGGGATCCTACAACAGCACTTGAATG (Del1; PPIase domain only), GACTAGGGATCCGGACACACTCTGACT GAA (Del2; PPIase plus RRM), and GACTAGGGATCCATGAC TATTATGCTTGGG (Del3; PPIase, RRM, and zinc knuckle). PCR products were cloned into pDEDH-HA and pDEDH-GFP, resulting in pAtCyp59D1-HA, pAtCyp59D2-HA, pAtCyp59D3-HA, pAt-Cyp59D1-GFP, pAtCyp59D2-GFP, and pAtCyp59D3-GFP.  Plasmids pAD-AtCyp59 and pBD-AtCyp59 used in the yeast two-hybrid assay were created by cloning the PCR product, amplified by using oligos TATTGCGGATCCTGTCAGTTCTTATTGTGACG and GTCACGCGGATCCTCATCATCCCTTCTCTCAT, into the BamHI site of pGAD242 and pGBT9 (Clontech), respectively.  The yeast two-hybrid plasmids encoding Arabidopsis CTD were created by cloning the CTD fragment amplified from the cDNA library (Clontech) into EcoRI opened pGBT9 and pGAD242 resulting in pBD-AtCTD and pAD-AtCTD, respectively. Oligonucleotides used were 5′–TGCAGAATTCCCAATGTCAGATGCACAG and 3′–ACGTGAATTCAAGGGTTGCCTTTATC. For overexpression of GST-CTD fusion in E. coli, the CTD was amplified by using oligonucleotides 5′–TGCAGAATTCCAATGTCAGATGCACAG and the same 3′ oligo used for cloning into two-hybrid vectors, and ligated into the EcoRI site of pGEX-4T-1, resulting in pGST-AtCTD.  Plant expression plasmids pSRp34-GFP, pSRp34-RFP, pSRp34-HA, pU2B″-mRFP, U2A′-HA, U1A-HA, pNop10-mRFP, and pPRH-75-RFP encoding GFP-, RFP-, and HA-tagged Arabidopsis SRp34, U2B″, U2A′, U1A, and PRH75 proteins have been described (Lorković et al. 2004a). Plant expression plasmids pSCL28-HA, pSCL30-HA, pSCL30a-HA, pSCL33-HA, pSC35-HA, pSRp30-HA, pRSp31-HA, and pRSp40-HA for the expression of HA-tagged SR proteins have been described (Lorković et al. 2004a). Yeast expression plasmids pRSZp21-HA and pRSZ33-HA have been described earlier (Lopato et al. 2002).  Yeast two-hybrid screening and direct assays have been performed in HF7c reporter strain according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Clontech) and Lopato et al. (2002). To avoid nonspecific activation of HIS3 reporter gene, 3-aminotriazole was used throughout at the 5 mM concentration.  The plasmids pGST-AtCyp59, pGST-AtCTD, GST-AtCyp59D1, GST-AtCyp59D2, and GST-AtCyp59D3 were transformed into the E. coli strain BL21 (DE3) CodonPlusRIL (Stratagene). Cell growth and protein purification was as described in Lorković et al. (2005). For each pull-down 50 μL of beads were used (~1 μg of bound protein). For in vitro RNA binding studies (UV cross-linking) GST-AtCyp59 was eluted with 5 mM glutathione in 100 mM HEPES-KOH (pH 7.9) and concentrated by using Amicon Ultra-4 centrifugal filter devices (Millipore). During concentration of the protein, the buffer was exchanged into 20 mM HEPES-KOH (pH 7.9) containing 100 mM KCl, 0.5 mM dithiothreitol, and 0.2 mM EDTA.  Tobacco leaf mesophyll protoplasts were isolated and transformed with 20 μg of plasmid DNA per 106 protoplasts by the polyethylene glycol method and Arabidopsis cell suspension protoplasts were isolated and transformed as described (Lorković et al. 2004a). Transformed protoplasts were collected 24 h after transformation and stored at −80°C or were analyzed by laser scanning confocal microscope (Leica).  Protoplasts were collected by centrifugation 24 h after transformation (15 min, 70g), frozen in liquid nitrogen, and resuspended in protoplast extraction buffer (PEB400; 50 mM HEPES-KOH at pH 7.9, 400 mM KCl, 2.5 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, 0.1% Triton X-100), supplemented with EDTA-free protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche Applied Science), and further processed as described in Lorković et al. (2004a). After 15 min centrifugation in an Eppendorf centrifuge at maximum speed at 4°C, the supernatant was mixed with PEB without KCl to adjust KCl concentration to 150 mM (PEB150; for GST pull-down assay) or to 250 mM (PEB250; for immunoprecipitation). Immunoprecipitations were performed as described in Lorković et al. (2004a). Preparation of protein extracts from yeast cells expressing RSZp21-HA, RSZ33-HA, and SRp30-HA were as described in Lopato et al. (2002). For pull-down assays, protein extracts from transformed protoplasts or from yeast cells were mixed with glutathione Sepharose beads (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) coated with recombinant GST-AtCyp59, GST-AtCTD, GST-AtCyp59D1, GST-AtCyp59D2, and GST-AtCyp59D3 proteins or with beads alone and incubated on a rotary shaker for 2 h at 4°C. After four washings with PEB150, the beads were resuspended in 50 μL of loading buffer, and 25 μL were analyzed by SDS-PAGE.  In vitro transcription, UV cross-linking, and ribohomopolymer competition assays with Syn7 RNA (Goodall and Filipowicz 1989) and GST-AtCyp59 were performed as described by Domon et al. (1998).  In short, expression cassette consisting of CaMV promoter followed by Protein A and HA tags was constructed in pBluescript II KS–(New England Biolabs). AtCyp59 or PRH75 and U1–70K were cloned in frame with the tags and the whole cassette was cut out and cloned into pBI121 (Clontech). Plasmids were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 and Arabidopsis cell suspension was transformed by cocultivation. Details about construction of TAP-tagging vectors for expression in plant cells, Arabidopsis cell suspension transformation, and protocol for protein extraction will be published elsewhere.  SDS-PAGE (8% or 12% gels) was done according to standard procedure. Proteins were transferred onto PVDF membrane (Millipore) and Western blotting was performed according to standard procedure. Rat anti-HA (3F10; Roche Applied Science) and mouse anti-GFP (Roche Applied Science) monoclonal antibodies were used at 1:1000 dilution. Mouse anti-CTD (H14, H5, and 8WG16; Covance) monoclonal antibodies were used at 1:500 dilution. Mouse monoclonal antibody against α-tubulin (Sigma) was used at 1:1000 dilution. Secondary antibodies, goat anti-rat (Sigma), goat anti-mouse (Bio-Rad), and goat anti-rabbit (Bio-Rad) IgGs and goat anti-mouse IgM (Sigma), all conjugated with horseradish peroxidase were used at 1:10,000 dilutions. The blots were developed using an enhanced chemiluminescence kit (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). 
