!~ABS~! The gene SHOOT MERISTEMLESS (STM) is required for the initiation and the maintenance of the shoot apical meristem (SAM) in Arabidopsis and encodes a MEINOX/three amino acid loop extension (TALE)-HD-type transcription factor. Translational fusions with the green fluorescent protein showed that STM is not nuclear by default. In a yeast two-hybrid screen performed with a meristem-enriched cDNA library, three interacting BLH (Bel1-like homeodomain) transcription factors were identified. According to bimolecular fluorescence complementation, STM is targeted into the nuclear compartment through heterodimerization with BLH partner proteins, which are expressed in distinct SAM domains from the center to the periphery. On a functional level, overexpression experiments in transgenic Arabidopsis plants suggest that individual heterodimers provide distinct contributions. These results contribute to our understanding of the STM transcription factor function in the SAM and also shed new light on the evolution of the TALE-HD super gene family in animal and plant lineages.
!~RES~! The method of choice to prove a physical interaction between candidate partner proteins in plant cells is BiFC (CITATION,CITATION). As a prerequisite to substantiate interactions between potential partner proteins identified in a yeast two-hybrid screen, C- and N-terminal fusions between the ORFs of STM and the GFP were constructed and expressed in leek or onion epidermal cells after particle bombardment. As a potential transcription factor, STM was expected to direct GFP fluorescence into the plant cell nucleus. However, both fusion proteins, GFP-STM and STM-GFP remained in the cytoplasm (CITATION). The same result was obtained in epidermal cells of the Arabidopsis hypocotyl. In contrast, the addition of the virD2 NLS (CITATION) in front of the chimeric GFP-STM ORF efficiently directed the chimeric NLS-GFP-STM protein into the plant cell nucleus (CITATION). An inappropriate folding of the N- or C-terminal GFP fusion proteins is unlikely, because expression of both chimeric proteins (GFP-STM + STM-GFP) in transgenic Arabidopsis plants behind the CaMV35S promoter yielded the characteristic STM overexpression phenotype (data not shown). However, in contrast to ectopic STM activity affecting the SAM or causing meristems on leaves (CITATION), the expression of a nuclear targeted NLS-STM version from the CaMV 35S promoter in transgenic Arabidopsis plant predominantly resulted in a lobed leaf phenotype (CITATION), which is reminiscent of KNAT1 overexpression (CITATION) rather than STM over expression (CITATION). Lobed leaves were detected in 187 (76%) from 247 primary transformants (T1), whereas only 44 (18%) T1 plants showed meristem defects including stm phenocopies, presumably due to co-suppression. A nuclear-targeted STM protein version therefore affects leaf development more than SAM function. The cytoplasmic retention of the chimeric GFP-STM protein was further substantiated by confocal laser microscopy scanning and staining of nuclei with propidium iodide. The comparison of a median Z-stack projection through the nucleus either analysed for GFP-STM fluorescence (CITATION), the corresponding propidium iodine stains (CITATION) and their overlay in CITATION confirm exclusion of GFP fluorescence from the nuclear compartment. In contrast to the median sections depicted in CITATION, the same scanning series shows GFP-STM fluorescence surrounding the nucleus, which would explain fluorescence at the position of the nucleus in whole mounts depicted in CITATION. Protein extracts prepard from leek epidermal cells after particle bombardement showed no degradation of the GFP-STM fusion protein with an antibody directed against the GFP (CITATION). Taken together, the data lead to the conclusion that STM is devoid of an efficient NLS. Additional support for nuclear exclusion was obtained by several STM deletion constructs, none of which targeted GFP fluorescence to the plant cell nucleus (data not shown). This nuclear import deficiency is noteworthy since the ELK domain conserved between the MEINOX domain and the homeodomain in plant KNOX proteins (CITATION) has been assumed to provide a functional NLS (CITATION). Potential STM protein interaction partners were identified in a yeast two-hybrid screen performed with a meristem-enriched cDNA library (Materials and Methods) established in the vector pACT2 (prey) and the MEINOXSTM domain as a bait expressed from the pGDKT7 vector. In total 223 positive clones were identified and all were annotated as ORFs in the Arabidopsis genome. Besides known false positives, proteins of unknown function or metabolic enzymes, a major class was membrane-associated proteins including transporters or ion-channels, however, any significance of this finding remains to be established. Amongst 31 cDNAs encoding genes related to transcriptional control, 3 BLH proteins, ATH1, BLH3 and BLH9, are subject to a detailed analysis here. Although BLH9 has been implicated to interact with STM (CITATION,CITATION) it was included in the in-depth analysis described here for comparison concerning a function in the SAM. Besides obvious controls in yeast such as retransformation of bait or prey plasmids and the combination with the empty bait vector, we included the MEINOXBp1 domain of the BP1 gene as bait as it encodes the closest relative to the MEINOXSTM domain in the Arabidopsis genome. All three BLH proteins interact with both the MEINOXSTM and the MEINOXBp1 domain and thus recognize sequence or structural features common to the MEINOX domains of BP1 or STM (CITATION). In addition to the interactions in yeast, we performed co-immunoprecipitation experiments with epitope-tagged full-length proteins. The HA-tagged BLH proteins shown in CITATION were used to co-precipitate epitope-tagged STM-His (CITATION). The detection of the STM-His protein was strictly dependent on the presence of BLH partner proteins. The co-immunoprecipitation experiments therefore confirm that the full-length STM protein interacts with full-length ATH1, BLH3 and BLH9 proteins in vitro and substantiate the affinity of BLH/STM interactions. A further step towards proof of biological relevance was the confirmation of a spatial overlap between the expression domain of STM and those of candidate partner BLH genes by performing RNA in situ hybridizations. All three BLH genes are transcribed in the early Arabidopsis seedling, whereas the ATH1 and BLH9 expression patterns have been analysed previously (CITATION,CITATION). RT–PCR experiments readily detected BLH3 transcripts at the 2–4 leaf seedling stage (data not shown). Combined in CITATION are the cellular transcription patterns in immature inflorescences, where the indeterminate inflorescence meristem (IM) and determinate FMs can be compared. All three BLH genes are transcribed in IMs and FMs. High levels of ATH1 transcripts are generally detected in the center of the IM or FM and an additional stripe of ATH1 expression is found in the FM (to the left in CITATION), which is adjacent to a lateral organ primordium. In contrast, BLH3 is transcribed in a cup-shaped expression domain enclosing the ATH1 domain, whereas BLH3 transcripts are absent in the centre of the IM (CITATION). The BLH9 transcription pattern has been analysed on the cellular level previously (CITATION); a section is included in CITATION to show its preference at the SAM periphery (CITATION). The in situ hybridizations with ATH1, BLH3 and BLH9 probes therefore suggest a zonation of the IM, from the center to the periphery. In contrast, STM (CITATION) is ubiquitously transcribed throughout the SAM and only down-regulated when cells acquire primordial fate at the SAM periphery. The principle of BiFC is the formation of a fluorescent complex by fragments of the enhanced YFP brought together by the association of two interaction partners (CITATION,CITATION). To verify STM interaction partners we constructed translational fusions between the N- or the C-terminal YFP sub-domains and the full-length STM protein or individual full-length BLH partner proteins. Optimal combinations of chimeric gene constructs are indicated in CITATION above each corresponding experiment. Chimeric genes were co-delivered into leek epidermal cells by bombardment of tungsten particles double-loaded with two appropriate chimeric gene constructs. Any detectable fluorescence was dependent on the combination of the C-terminal with the N-terminal YFP sub-domain fused to STM or BLH partner proteins. In contrast, the fusion of the C- or the N-terminal YFP sub-domain to the STM protein and their co-bombardment in plant cells gave no fluorescence (data not shown). BiFC therefore provided no evidence for the formation of STM homodimers but substantiated the formation of STM/BLH heterodimers. As shown in CITATION, co-expression of ATH1-CYFP/STM-NYFP, BLH3-NYFP/STM-CYFP and BLH9-NYFP/STM-CYFP resulted in reconstitution of YFP fluorescence. In contrast to results obtained with STM-GFP fusions, however, the BiFC signal exhibited a high preference for the nucleus whereas fluorescence was low in the cytoplasm. The BiFC results therefore, confirm that full-length STM and BLH proteins interact in plant cells, but more notably, that BLH/STM heterodimers are efficiently incorporated into the nuclear compartment. Expectedly, the GFP-ATH1, GFP-BLH3 and GFP-BLH9 fusion proteins exerted a preference for the nuclear compartment (CITATION). The nuclear import of GFP-BLH9 in leek epidermal cells appears to be in contrast to previous results obtained in tobacco leaves after agroinfection with a C-terminal BLH9-GFP fusion construct. However, without analysing the cellular localization of the STM protein, Bhatt et al. (CITATION) arrive at the same conclusion that STM/BLH9 heterodimers are efficiently imported into the plant cell nucleus. In contrast to bombardments with the ATH1 and BLH3 constructs, the number of BiFC-positive cells obtained with the BLH9/STM combination (e.g. BLH9-NYFP/STM-CYFP in CITATION) was generally low. This may indicate a weak interaction between STM and BLH9 as suggested by the yeast two-hybrid results, that chimeric BLH9-NYFP protein levels remain low in leak epidermal cells, or that steric constraints interfere with a reconstitution of YFP fluorescence. Reminiscent, however, of the MEIS/PBC situation in animals, the GFP and BiFC data show that the TALE-HD transcription factor STM is targeted into the nuclear compartment through interaction with three BLH partner proteins, which are members of the non-MEINOX class of TALE-HD proteins in plants. The BELL domain is essential for the interaction of STM with BLH partner proteins. BiFC experiments with BLH3 deletion polypeptides (BLH3 ΔC or BELLBLH3 see schematic drawing in CITATION) demonstrated that amino acid sequences upstream and downstream of the BELL domain including the homeodomain are dispensable for heterodimerization with STM (CITATION). BiFC fluorescence still exerted a preference for the nucleus if sequences C-terminal to the BELL domain including the DNA-binding homeodomain were deleted (BLH3 ΔC, CITATION). In contrast, YFP fluorescence reconstituted with the isolated BELL domain (BELLBLH3 in CITATION) remained mainly cytoplasmic. An effective NLS therefore must be located in the BLH3 protein N-terminal to its BELL domain. In the STM protein, the MEINOXSTM domain is sufficient to interact with full-length BLH3 (CITATION). However, we have been unable to reconstitute YFP fluorescence in BiFC experiments with the isolated MEINOXSTM and BELLBLH3 domains although several compatible N- or C-terminal combinations with each YFP sub-domain were tested. One explanation for this may be that the relative arrangement of YFP sub-domains sterically interferes with their functional association. This assumption is supported by the fact that the MEINOXSTM domain is precipitated via the BELLBLH3 domain in co-immunoprecipitation experiments (data not shown). We attempted to substantiate the functional relevance of STM heterodimers in Arabidopsis by combining an inducible STM-GR effector line (CITATION) with lines constitutively overexpressing BLH3, BLH9 or ATH1. For this purpose, we first raised and analysed transgenic lines expressing individual BLH genes behind the CaMV 35S promoter. The most evident phenotype in primary transformants (T1) was observed with ectopic ATH1 gene activity, which affected the elongation of internodes in inflorescence shoots. The severest phenotype, essentially an absence of internode elongation was observed in 40 from total of 240 BASTA-resistent progeny (compare CITATION). Normal and fertile flowers emerged in an appropriate phyllotaxy from a stunted, compact inflorescence, a phenotype inherited up to the T4 generation. Some reduction in inflorescence height (∼20–30%) was also observed in T1 BLH9 overexpressing plants (30 from total of 65 transgenic seedlings); however, this phenotype was not heritable in subsequent generations. In addition, BLH9 overexpression caused alterations in phyllotaxy and phenotypes (CITATION) reminiscent of those described for loss-of-function alleles e.g. multiple cauline leaves subtending second order inflorescence shoots, multiple axillary shoots emerging from a single inflorescence node or irregular elongation of internodes [bellringer, pennywise, replumless, vaamana (CITATION,CITATION,CITATION,CITATION)]. In contrast, T1 BLH3 overexpressing plants (total >200) appeared similar to wild type, although independent lines in the T2 generation were early flowering compared with wild-type plants. For each BLH candidate partner protein gene two representative T2 overexpressing lines were crossed into the STM-GR background. To discriminate single from double-transgenic plants, T3 progeny of these lines were subjected to a detailed phenotypic analysis (CITATION). Overexpression of either BLH3 or BLH9 caused early flowering compared with Columbia wild-type controls, whereas ATH1 transgenic progeny flowered much later. With P-values ranging from 0.002 (BLH9) or 0.00001 (BLH3) to 0.000002 (ATH1) in the student's t-test, these differences in flowering time are highly significant. In BLH3 overexpressing plants early flowering is reflected by a reduced leaf number compared with Columbia control plants (8 or 10 leaves on average, respectively; CITATION). In contrast, BLH9 transgenic plants flowered at the same time as BLH3 overexpressing plants, but developed more rosette leaves. BHL9 overexpressing plants flowered three days earlier than wild-type controls and produced on average one more leaf than wild type. The plastochron was estimated to be 1.41 for wild type, whereas BLH9 overexpressing plants developed a new leaf approximately every day. This difference was confirmed in a third BLH9 transgenic line and is highly significant (P = 0.00013). In contrast no significant deviation in the plastochron was observed in 35S::BLH3 or 35S::ATH1 transgenic plants compared with the wild type (CITATION). However, transgenic ATH1 plants flowered on average 4 days later than wild-type Columbia control plants and developed on average three more leaves than the wild type. The overexpression of three BLH genes, which are potential interaction partners of STM in the SAM therefore consistently affected flowering time either by altering the number of vegetative leaves (BLH3/ATH1) or the plastochron (BLH9). F1 seeds obtained from crosses between STM-GR and BLH3, BLH9 or ATH1 overexpressing lines were sown on soil and monitored for transmission of the potential STM partner protein transgene by selection for BASTA resistance. The surviving seedlings of the individual crosses and lines were subdivided into three groups and either sprayed with Dexamethasone (Dex) at the 2–3 or 5–6 leaf stage, or third group serving as an untreated control. Since the 35S::STM-GR effector transgene is propagated heterozygously, only 50% of the progeny can respond to the hormone treatment by releasing the chimeric STM-GR protein from cytoplasmic retention (CITATION). When induced at the early 2–3 leaf stage, STM-GR control plants remained in the vegetative phase with newly initiated leaflets which were small and remained closely associated with the SAM (CITATION). In contrast, BLH3/STM-GR and ATH1/STM-GR double-transgene combinations ceased producing leaf primordia and instead initiated FMs (CITATION). Young leaflets already initiated at the time of Dex application expanded but lacked petioles and in consequence remained in close association to the SAM. The release of STM-GR from cytoplasmic retention in two independent lines providing either ectopic ATH1 or ectopic BLH3 activity therefore transforms meristem identity from vegetative to reproductive. A different response to Dex application was observed in the combination BLH9/STM-GR; these plants remained in the vegetative phase but initiated new leaves which were severely lobed (CITATION). Plants sprayed later, at the 5 or 6 leaf-stage also responded to Dex application. However, some STM-GR control plants started flowering shortly thereafter, as did each double-transgene combination. Floral induction at this late stage, therefore, may be biased by STM-GR overexpression. Noteworthy is that cauline leaves in BLH9/STM-GR transgenic plants remained severely lobed, thus confirming specificity of this additive leaf phenotype. Characteristic for STM-GR flowers are abnormalities such as a size reduction in outer whorl organs and a prominent carpel surrounded by few stamens (CITATION). These features are shared by flowers emerging from early or late Dex-induced double-transgene combinations (see also CITATION). Although this phenotype provides evidence for STM-GR expression, the co-activity of both transgenes was confirmed by RNA-gel blot experiments with pooled explant material for each transgene combination (data not shown). No additional phenotype was observed in the no-DEX control group, single-transgene STM-GR plants or untreated double-transgene combinations. In conclusion, these additive combinatorial transgene results provide strong evidence that the overexpression of three BLH partner proteins in transgenic Arabidopsis plants creates novel functional competencies, which are realized after STM-GR is released from the HSP90 chaperonin. Two discrete phenotypes, floral induction and leaf lobing indicate response specificity, and more importantly imply that individual BLH proteins may contribute different functions through their interaction with STM.
!~MM~! The Matchmaker GAL4 system (Clontech) was used to perform the yeast two-hybrid screen. As bait the sequences encoding the MEINOXSTM domain (amino acids 116–220 of the STM protein) or the slightly longer MEINOX-ELKSTM (amino acids 116–287) domain were cloned into the vector pGBKT7 (Clontech) and expressed in fusion with the GAL4 DNA-binding domain. Directional cloning of PCR fragments was performed by the addition of in-frame NcoI or BamH1 restriction sites to gene-specific PCR primers. The meristem-enriched cDNA library in the vector pACT2 (Clonetech) was prepared from immature inflorescence shoots (Lumbrineris erecta, 4–5 mm size) containing inflorescence and multiple floral meristems (FMs). cDNA synthesis exactly followed the manual for the cDNA synthesis kit (Stratagene). Directional cloning into pACT2 was achieved via an XhoI site addition to the oligo-dT primer (3′) and an EcoRI adapter at the cDNA 5′-terminus. The cDNA library (1.25 × 106 clones) was colony amplified in Escherichia coli, plasmid DNA purified by CsCl2-gradient centrifugation and used for yeast transformation (strain AH109). Screening of the library followed the Matchmaker manual applying quadruple selection (HIS3, ADE2, LacZ and MEL1). In total 2.5 × 106 colonies were screened for encoded polypeptides which interact with the MEINOX-ELKSTM domain. Positive clones (223) were isolated and cDNA inserts in pACT2 were subjected to N-terminal sequence analysis. The specificity of each protein interaction was confirmed by retransformation of sequence-verified cDNA clones (ATH1, BHL3 or BHL9) into yeast strains providing the MEINOXSTM or MEINOXBP1 bait constructs in pGDKT7. No interaction was observed with the empty pACT2 prey vector. Complete coding regions of ATH1, BHL3 and BHL9 were isolated by reverse transcriptase PCR, with primers (20–23mers) positioned at the translation start codon. Where possible, directional cloning was facilitated by embedding the ATG start codon in a NcoI restriction site, and the addition of a BamH1 site (alternatively BglII site) after the stop codon. Total RNA was extracted from 3-week old seedlings according to Chomczynski and Sacchi (CITATION) and used for first strand cDNA synthesis following the cDNA synthesis kit protocol (Stratagene). Resulting PCR products were generally cloned into the vector pCRII-TOPO (Invitrogen) and subjected to complete DNA sequence analysis to exclude PCR-based amino acid alterations. Verified cDNA inserts were either directly transferred into appropriate secondary vectors for bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC), co-immunoprecipitation or transgenic experiments and served as templates in second-round PCR-amplification to remove the stop codon or to adjust open reading frames (ORFs) for translational fusions. Non-radioactive in situ hybridization experiments were performed essentially as described in Bradley et al. (CITATION). Paraffin wax-embedded tissue was sectioned by the use of a rotary microtome and 7 µm sections were used for hybridization. Digoxigenin-labeled probes were transcribed from PCR fragments after addition of the T7 promoter at the 5′ end of the reverse-primer. The ORFs of genes encoding candidate partner proteins (ATH1, BHL3 or BHL9) and STM were cloned in-frame into the transient expression vectors pUC-SPYCE and pUC-SPYNE, respectively, through the BamHI site (CITATION), containing either the N- or C-terminal parts of the coding regions of the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP). As controls, green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions with STM and BLH partner proteins were created in the vector pRTΩNotI/AscI (CITATION). To create NLS-GFP-STM, a synthetic oligonucleotide providing the virD2 nuclear localization signal (NLS) (CITATION) was inserted into a NcoI site at the translation start of the GFP ORF. For transient expression in leek epidermal cells, 50 µl of tungsten particles (1.1 µm diameter, BioRad) were mixed with 10–15 µg of plasmid DNA, 60 µl of 2.2 M CaCl2 and 20 µl of 0.1 M spermidine in a total volume of 150 µl. The DNA was precipitated on the tungsten particles at room temperature by adding 200 µl ethanol, for 3 min with continuous shaking. After brief centrifugation, the tungsten pellet was washed three times in 100% (v/v) ethanol before being resuspended in 30 µl of 100% (v/v) ethanol. Aliquots (10 µl) of DNA-coated tungsten were spotted on macro carriers and used to transform leek epidermal cells at 1100 psi rupture disc bursting pressure using a Biolistic PDS-1000-He apparatus (BioRad) The bombarded tissue was kept in Petri dishes on damp filter paper for 12–16 h in the dark and YFP or GFP fluorescence was visualized using a LEICA MZFLIII stereomicroscope. All images were processed using the Adobe Photoshop software (version 7.0) package. Epitope-tagged proteins were prepared in the EasyXpress protein system (Qiagen), via an in vitro transcription/translation system based on the T7 promoter. T7 promoter transcription templates of STM partner proteins were obtained via nested PCRs on the ATH1, BHL3 or BHL9 constructs in pUC-SPYCE which encodes the HA epitope prior the YFP C-terminal domain. Both the T7 promoter and the 6× His-tag were added to the STM coding region via a nested PCR strategy. STM and partner proteins were co-transcribed/translated by mixing size- and quality-checked PCR-amplicons of STM with those of ATH1, BHL3 and BLH9. Control reactions were performed with single STM or BLH amplicons. The MACS epitope tagged protein isolation kit (Miltenyi Biotec) was used to precipitate candidate partner proteins via the HA epitope. Eluted protein samples were split (1/3 and 2/3), size-fractionated in parallel on two polyacrylamide SDS-gels (concentration adjusted to protein size), electroblotted onto Immobilon-P membrane (Millipore) and subjected to antibody detection. HA-tagged (1/3 aliquot) partner proteins were identified using an anti-HA horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated antibody (clone 3F10; Roche 2012819). The co-precipitated 6× his-tagged STM protein was visualized by a primary penta-His mouse antibody [α-(H)5; Qiagen 34660] and secondary HRP-coupled goat anti-mouse IGG (Dianova 115-035-062). Peroxidase activity was detected non-radioactively via chemiluminescence (ECL PLUS kit; Amersham Biosciences) and documented on Kodak-X-omat AR films. Epidermal proteins after bombardement of leek epidermal cells were isolated in 50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, 1% Triton and size-fractionated by SDS–PAGE. GFP fusion proteins were detected after transfer to Immobilon-P membrane (Millipore) by a mouse monoclonal anti-GFP HRP-conjugated antibody (IgG1; Milteny Biotec 130-091-833). For overexpression, the protein coding regions of ATH1, BHL3 or BHL9 and modified STM versions were cloned behind the CaMV 35S promoter in a modified pRTΩNotI/AscI vector and the flanking AscI sites were used to transfer the expression cassette into the binary vector pGPTV-BAR/AscI (CITATION). To create NLS-STM, a synthetic oligonucleotide providing the virD2 NLS (CITATION) was inserted into an NcoI site created at the translation start of the STM ORF. Transgenic plants were generated by vacuum infiltration of Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia recipient plants by use of Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (CITATION) and primary transformants (T1) were selected using resistance against the herbicide BASTA. A minimum of 65 transgenic plants was obtained for each construct. Representative lines (CITATION–CITATION) were selected for the analysis of transgene and phenotype transmission in the T2 generation. Based on segregation (3:1 for BASTAR), putative single transgene insertion lines were chosen for crosses with the heterozygous STM-GR effector line (CITATION) and detailed phenotypic characterization (Figure 5E). Double-transgenic progeny of crosses were selected for transmission of ATH1, BHL3 or BHL9 transgenes by BASTAR. Dexamethasone induction was carried out by spraying plants with a solution containing 1 µm Dex (Sigma D8893). The subsequent development of single- and double-transgenic plants as untreated controls was documented by photography on a daily basis. The co-expression of both transgenes in Dex-responsive/BASTAR plants was verified on the transcriptional level by RNA gel blot analysis. Total RNA was isolated from pooled explant material of double-transgenic progeny from each cross and transfered Nytran-SPC filters (Schleicher & Schuell) after electrophoresis. Filters were successively hybridized with firstly ATH1, BHL3 or BHL9 probes and secondly with the STM probe labelled radioactively by incorporation of [α32P]dATP.
