!~ABS~! The G1-to-S-phase transition is a key regulatory point in the cell cycle, but the rate-limiting component in plants is unknown. Overexpression of CYCLIN D3;1 (CYCD3;1) in transgenic plants increases mitotic cycles and reduces endocycles, but its effects on cell cycle progression cannot be unambiguously determined. To analyze the cell cycle roles of plant D-type cyclins, we overexpressed CYCD3;1 in Arabidopsis thaliana cell suspension cultures. Changes in cell number and doubling time were insignificant, but cultures exhibited an increased proportion of G2- over G1-phase cells, as well as increased G2 arrest in response to stationary phase and sucrose starvation. Synchronized cultures confirm that CYCD3;1-expressing (but not CYCD2;1-expressing) cells show increased G2-phase length and delayed activation of mitotic genes such as B-type cyclins, suggesting that CYCD3;1 has a specific G1/S role. Analysis of putative cyclin-dependent kinase phosphorylation sites within CYCD3;1 shows that mutating Ser-343 to Ala enhances CYCD3;1 potency without affecting its rate of turnover and results in a fivefold increase in the level of cell death in response to sucrose removal. We conclude that CYCD3;1 dominantly drives the G1/S transition, and in sucrose-depleted cells the decline in CYCD3;1 levels leads to G1 arrest, which is overcome by ectopic CYCD3;1 expression. Ser-343 is likely a key residue in modulating CYCD3;1 activity in response to sucrose depletion.
!~RES~! To investigate the role of CYCD3;1 in the plant cell cycle independently of its roles in differentiation and development, CYCD3;1 was expressed under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter in the synchronizable Arabidopsis cell lines MM1 and MM2d. These lines have the same origin but are cultured in either continuous light (MM1) or darkness (MM2d) and have only minor differences in growth characteristics (CITATION). Two clones of each line expressing CYCD3;1 (35S:CYCD3;1) were selected, and the higher level of CYCD3;1 expression in transgenic lines was confirmed by quantitative real-time RT-PCR and compared with that in wild-type cells (Figure 1A ) and by protein blot analysis (Figure 1B). [[FIGURE]] All 35S:CYCD3;1 lines, regardless of the cell line used, showed similar characteristics in all experiments reported in this work. To further confirm that 35S:CYCD3;1 lines do not exhibit significant alterations in growth behavior under different culture conditions (light or dark), a culture of line 35S:CYCD3;1-1 (derived from the dark-grown cell line MM2d) was transferred to continuous light and incubated further for a period of 1 year under these conditions (and designated 35S:CYCD3;1-2). This subline showed no difference in any behavior or results reported here from other 35S:CYCD3;1 lines, regardless of their original parental line (Figures 1C and 1D). The growth of the untransformed control line MM2d and the 35S:CYCD3;1-1 and 35S:CYCD3;1-2 lines was compared by monitoring wet weight (Figure 1C), cell number (Figure 1D), and doubling times (Table 1 ) for 7 d after subculture. Differences between lines were small, with a somewhat smaller cell size for CYCD3;1 lines, resulting in a slightly reduced wet weight of the culture (Figure 1C). However, the major difference between 35S:CYCD3;1 lines and the wild type was a large difference in the distribution of cells between cell cycle phases at all times during the growth cycle, from subculture to stationary phase (Figures 1E and 1F). In all cases, the proportion of cells in G1-phase was reduced from 50% (at day 3) to ∼35%, whereas the proportion of cells in G2-phase was increased from 33% in control cells to 50%. This was further confirmed by calculating cell cycle phase durations (Table 1), showing a 25% decrease in the length of G1-phase in 35S:CYCD3;1, little change in the length of S-phase, and a large increase in the duration of G2-phase (Table 1). Doubling Time and Phase Duration of Wild-Type and 35S:CYCD3;1 Cells during Exponential Growth As cells enter stationary phase, they normally stop dividing in G1, and for wild-type cells ∼20% are in G2-phase compared with ∼40% for 35S:CYCD3;1. This suggests that cells overexpressing CYCD3;1 may pass a G1/S restriction point more quickly and thereby shorten the G1-phase but exhibit a significant increase in the length of G2. Similar results were consistently obtained with all four 35S:CYCD3;1 lines, regardless of parentage (MM1 or MM2d) or culture conditions (light or dark). Previous analysis showed that CYCD3;1 is present in exponentially growing MM1 wild-type cells and strongly reduced in stationary phase cells (CITATION). To establish whether the effect on the cell cycle distribution of 35S:CYCD3;1 cells in stationary phase was linked to the continued presence of CYCD3;1 in these cells, we examined protein levels at different stages of culture growth (Figure 1B). Indeed, the relative levels of CYCD3;1 are higher in stationary phase in the 35S:CYCD3;1-1 line because of significantly lower RNA and protein levels for CYCD3;1 in wild-type cells (Figures 1A and 1B). This suggests that the observed effect on the phase distribution in stationary phase could be attributable to a higher expression level of CYCD3;1 in states in which its expression is normally switched off, resulting in a partial overcoming of the preferred tendency of cells to arrest in G1 on reaching stationary phase. The protein and RNA levels of CYCD2;1 and CDKA, the CDK partner of CYCD3;1, were unchanged in 35S:CYCD3;1 cells (data not shown). Removal of sucrose from the growth medium of exponentially growing cells leads to a cessation of S-phase entry and a preferential arrest of cells in G1-phase (70%) within 12 h (Figure 2B ) (CITATION; CITATION). This is correlated with a reduction in CYCD3;1, but not CYCD2;1 or CDKA, protein levels (CITATION). To further investigate the effect of CYCD3;1 on the G1-to-S-phase control point, we examined the response of 35S:CYCD3;1 cells to sucrose removal. We observed that wild-type cells show an increase in G1 cells from ∼55 to ∼70% of the population within 12 h (Figure 2B). By contrast, CYCD3;1 cells show a decrease in G1 cells and an increase in G2 cells over the same period, from ∼45 to ∼65% of the population (Figure 2C). In both wild-type and CYCD3;1 cultures, S-phase cells are substantially reduced or absent within 6 h of sucrose removal. Controls in which cells are placed in normal (3%) or low (0.3%) levels of sucrose show that cycling continues in both cases, with the higher level of G2-phase cells observed in all 35S:CYCD3;1 samples. [[FIGURE]] The continued increase in the G2-phase proportion on sucrose removal shows that CYCD3;1 cells preferentially arrest in G2, whereas wild-type cells preferentially arrest in G1-phase. Protein gel blots confirmed that CYCD3;1 is present in sucrose-deprived 35S:CYCD3;1 cells (Figure 2A, bottom) but not in wild-type cells, in which degradation of CYCD3;1 is observed 4 h after depletion (Figure 2A, top) (CITATION). Hence, ectopic expression of CYCD3;1 is associated with a reduced tendency to arrest in G1-phase, suggesting that it partially overcomes the normal control mechanism at the G1/S restriction point but does not remove the signal for cessation of cycling in response to sucrose removal. Therefore, cells arrest at the subsequent control point in G2-phase. Consistent with this interpretation, 35S:CYCD3;1 cultures show a higher level of S-phase cells than wild-type cultures in low (0.3%) or absent sucrose (Figures 2B and 2C). A higher proportion of cells have a G2-phase DNA content in both 35S:CYCD3;1 cultures and transgenic plants (CITATION). One possible explanation is that a proportion of cells are permanently arrested in G2 and thus no longer cycling, perhaps as a result of their initiation of a blocked endocycle program. Alternatively, most cells may continue to cycle, but with an extended duration of G2-phase. To distinguish between these possibilities, we used aphidicolin block–release experiments to generate cultures with a high degree of synchrony from S- to M-phases (CITATION). Synchronization of wild-type and 35S:CYCD3;1 cells was performed and is shown in Figures 3A and 3B . Both wild-type and 35S:CYCD3;1 cells were synchronized to a high degree, with ∼85% of cells arrested at the G1/S boundary. Release of the aphidicolin block resulted in a high degree of synchrony of both cultures. Importantly, >90% of 35S:CYCD3;1 cells were found in S-phase at 1 to 2 h after release, demonstrating that all cells in the culture are cycling and that there is no significant population of noncycling cells blocked in G2-phase (Figure 3B). Interestingly, S-phase is completed in 35S:CYCD3;1 cells up to 1 h earlier than in control cells, although S-phase length calculation in unsynchronized cultures showed little difference (Table 1). This finding suggests that 35S:CYCD3;1 cells are able to progress further into S-phase in the presence of aphidicolin than are control cells; indeed, no G1-phase cells remained 1 h after aphidicolin removal. [[FIGURE]] Consistent with the prevalence of G2-phase cells observed in 35S:CYCD3;1 cultures, these cultures show a significantly longer period before the proportion of G1-phase cells increases after the completion of mitosis. Control cultures show increasing numbers of G1 cells after 10 h and reach 40% G1-phase cells after 14 h. 35S:CYCD3;1 cultures exhibit only 10% G1 cells after 14 h. A similar delay was also observed in all 35S:CYCD3;1 lines, independent of the cell line from which they were derived. To establish whether the observed consequences of ectopic CYCD3;1 expression on S-phase and G2 progression are a general effect of CYCD or even an artifact of the transformation process, we repeated this analysis in a transgenic Arabidopsis line constitutively expressing CYCD2;1 (35S:CYCD2;1). No delay was observed in these cells in the progression through G2-phase (Figure 3C), nor was there any difference from wild-type cells in the distribution of cells between phases in nonsynchronized cultures (CITATION). We conclude that the effect of CYCD3;1 expression on promoting the G1-to-S-phase transition and on provoking G2-phase delay is not observed with CYCD2;1. We recently showed that cyclin B and most cyclin A genes are coactivated in late G2 and show an expression peak 10 h after release of the aphidicolin block. Eighty-two genes share this common regulatory pattern (CITATION), including two genes of the plant-specific CDKB class, CDKB2;1 and CDKB2;2. Expression of the related CDKB1 gene peaks ∼4 h before the CDKB2/CYCB cluster in mid-G2-phase. Because synchronization experiments demonstrated that CYCD3;1 overexpression leads to an extended G2-phase, we sought to investigate the timing of this delay; therefore, we examined the expression of the marker genes characteristic for S- and G2-phases using RT-PCR (Figure 4 ). [[FIGURE]] As expected, 35S:CYCD3;1 lines show higher levels of CYCD3;1 mRNA (Figure 4A); interestingly, they also show a normal pattern of expression but strongly increased levels of the S-phase genes HISTONE H4 and CYCA3;2, as well as RBR (CITATION). This is likely attributable to the resulting increase in E2F activity in 35S:CYCD3;1 lines, because these genes are also increased as a result of increased E2F expression (S.M. de Jager and J.A.H. Murray, unpublished data). Increased RBR levels were also reported in plants overexpressing CYCD3;1 (CITATION). Both wild-type and 35S:CYCD3;1 cells show a similar pattern of expression and levels of the B-type CDK CDKB1;1, which is activated from the start of S-phase. However, when we examined the timing of expression of genes of the CDKB2/CYCB regulatory cluster, we found a significant delay in the activation of a sample of these genes (Figure 5 ), including CYCA1;1, CYCB2;3, CDKB2;2, the mitotic syntaxin KNOLLE, the aurora-like kinase ALK2 (CITATION), and the APC regulatory subunit CCS52b (CITATION). In wild-type cells, as well as in 35S:CYCD2;1 cells (Figures 4A and 4B), these genes show peak expression after 10 to 12 h, whereas in 35S:CYCD3;1 cells, expression is still increasing at 14 h. We conclude that 35S:CYCD3;1 induces a G2 delay before the activation of expression of CYCB and coregulated genes (Figure 5). [[FIGURE]] By contrast, 35S:CYCD2;1 cells, although showing a similar level of overexpression to that of CYCD3;1 in 35S:CYCD3;1 cells, show little increase in the expression of S-phase genes and no delay in the activation of G2/M-phase genes. Indeed, these cells show higher levels and/or more sustained expression of mRNA for certain genes, such as CYCA1;1 and KNOLLE (Figure 4B), although this was not reflected in any detectable delay in mitotic exit, as determined by the rate of accumulation of G1-phase cells (Figure 3C). CYCD3;1 binds CDKA to form functional complexes but does not bind CDKB1 in vivo (CITATION), but CYCD3;1 abundance normally decreases during stationary phase and is absent after sucrose starvation. We investigated whether overexpressed CYCD3;1 in the 35S:CYCD3;1 lines interacts with CDKA in all growth states with the same specificity. Using specific anti-CYCD3;1 antisera (CITATION) and a monoclonal antibody against the conserved PSTAIRE epitope of CDKA, protein gel blot analysis showed that CYCD3 and CDKA are present in exponential, stationary phase, and sucrose-starved cells, although CYCD3;1 abundance is significantly reduced after sucrose starvation, suggesting a higher turnover of the protein under these conditions (Figure 6 ). Immunoprecipitation using anti-CYCD3;1 antisera showed that CYCD3;1 and CDKA coprecipitate in all conditions tested (Figure 6). Because CYCD3;1 is only detectable in exponentially growing MM1 wild-type cells, no CDKA;1 could be detected in immunoprecipitates from other growth states (data not shown). No CDKB1 was detectable in any immunoprecipitates, as reported previously (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Interestingly after sucrose starvation, we observed additional bands with the anti-PSTAIRE CDKA antibody, including two smaller proteins, although only the two larger bands coimmunoprecipitated with CYCD3;1. These higher molecular weight bands may represent alternative phosphorylated forms of CDKA (Figure 6A, lane 3). Investigations in mammalian cells (CITATION) revealed that the stability and localization of D-type cyclins are regulated by phosphorylation of the cyclin, and CITATION showed that phosphorylation of Thr-191 in the tobacco D-type cyclin NictaCYCD3;3 may be necessary for full kinase activity and localization. We found recently that Arabidopsis CYCD3;1 is phosphorylated in sucrose-starved cells and accumulates in a hyperphosphorylated form when the proteasome degradation pathway is blocked by the inhibitor MG132 (CITATION). To investigate whether CYCD3;1 is phosphorylated in normally cycling cells, protein extracts from exponentially growing wild-type cells were treated with λ protein phosphatase, which dephosphorylates phosphoserines, phosphothreonines, and phosphotyrosines, followed by protein gel blot analysis. A shift of CYCD3;1 migration to a faster-migrating form was observed between untreated and treated samples (Figure 7A , lanes 1 and 2), indicating that a phosphorylated form of the protein exhibits retarded migration. No band was observed in the untreated sample at the equivalent migration to phosphatase-treated CYCD3;1, indicating that all, or a significant majority, of CYCD3;1 present in exponentially growing cells is phosphorylated, as was also reported by CITATION in sucrose-starved cells. This apparent complete and constitutive phosphorylation of CYCD3;1 was also observed in 35S:CYCD3;1 cells (Figure 7A), in which the level of CYCD3;1 was increased severalfold, whether exponentially growing (lanes 3 and 4), in stationary phase (lanes 5 and 6), or after sucrose starvation (lanes 7 and 8). CYCD3;1, therefore, is a constitutive phosphoprotein in suspension-cultured cells. Note that this constitutive phosphorylation is distinct from the hyperphosphorylation detected after MG132 treatment (CITATION) (Figure 8C ). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In Arabidopsis CYCD3;1, there are four putative phosphorylation sites for CDKs and other Pro-directed kinases, based on the conserved motif S/TP. Three of these sites lie within PEST sequences predicted by the program PESTfind (www.at.embnet.org/embnet/tools/bio/PESTfind/) and proposed to be involved in protein turnover (CITATION), whereas the fourth (Thr-190) is located at the C-terminal end of the cyclin box (Figure 7B). All four sites were separately mutated to Ala as a residue not susceptible to phosphorylation and expressed in tobacco BY2 cells under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. The wild-type CYCD3;1 protein and the S47A, T190A, and S310A mutant proteins all exhibited constitutive phosphorylation in exponential BY2 cells, whereas CYCD3;1-S343A did not show a shift on phosphatase treatment, indicating that unlike wild-type CYCD3;1, the mutant protein may not be phosphorylated during normal growth conditions (data not shown). To establish whether mutation of Ser-343 has effects on CYCD3;1 activity in Arabidopsis cells, the construct was stably transformed into MM1 cells. We observed that the resulting cell line, 35S:CYCD3-S343A (35S:S343A), showed effects on cell cycle similar to wild-type CYCD3;1 (35S:CYCD3;1), including a significant shift to G2-phase cells similar to that observed with 35S:CYCD3;1 lines in both MM1 and MM2d backgrounds (Figure 8A), and in synchronized cultures a more rapid progression through S-phase from the arrest point, a lengthened G2-phase (Figure 7C), and delayed activation of the G2/M cluster of coregulated genes, such as CYCA1;1, CYCB2;3, and CDKB2;2 (Figure 7D). Examining the expression levels of CYCD3;1 in synchronized 35S:S343A cells, we noted that the overall level of CYCD3;1 detected was only approximately twofold the wild-type levels (Figure 7D), implying that mRNA encoding the S343A variant was approximately equal to that of endogenous CYCD3;1 in dividing cells, compared with the 4- to 10-fold increase in the 35S:CYCD3;1-1 line (Figure 4A). Because the effects on cell cycle progression were similar to those of 35S:CYCD3;1 lines despite the only marginally increased overall CYCD3;1 level, the S343A mutant of CYCD3;1 may have a more potent effect. Whereas the expression of other G2/M-phase marker genes was similarly delayed in 35S:S343A cells as in 35S:CYCD3;1 cells (Figure 7D), the increased level of the S-phase genes HISTONE H4 and CYCA3;2 observed in 35S:CYCD3;1 cells was not seen; rather, expression of the latter gene was significantly lower in 35S:S343A cells (Figure 7D). Reduced expression of the S-phase marker gene HISTONE H4 was confirmed in nonsynchronized cells (see Supplemental Figure 1B online). These results suggest that the effects of CYCD3;1 on S-phase gene expression may be independent of the effects on G2 delay and G2/M-phase gene expression. We also noted that 35S:S343A cells showed morphological differences, which were particularly apparent during sucrose depletion of exponentially growing cells (Figure 8D). Whereas wild-type and 35S:CYCD3;1 cells respond to deprivation of the carbon source by vacuolization (Figure 8D, bottom left and middle), only small or no vacuoles are observed in 35S:S343A cells 24 h after sucrose depletion (Figure 8D, bottom right). To establish the effect of this failure of vacuolization, we monitored cell death during sucrose depletion in wild-type, 35S:CYCD3;1, and 35S:S343A cells using trypan blue staining. We noted that even in exponential cultures, a higher level of dead cells was present in 35S:S343A cultures (Figure 8G), and this increased to ∼40% of the population after 8 h of sucrose depletion. Wild-type and 35S:CYCD3;1 cells both exhibited ∼10% cell death at this time. These data suggest that the S343A mutant of CYCD3;1 prevents the normal cellular response of vacuolization to sucrose removal, resulting in a high level of cell death, and implicate Ser-343 as a potential regulatory residue. The effect of CYCD3;1-S343A during sucrose removal suggested a possible effect of the S343A mutation on protein level during sucrose starvation or on protein stability. The protein level was monitored in 35S:S343A and wild-type cells (Figure 8E) and after sucrose removal and showed no difference from 35S;CYCD3;1 cells (cf. Figures 8F and 2A). We have previously established that CYCD3;1 has a short half-life, as determined in cells in which protein synthesis has been blocked using cycloheximide, and is destroyed by a proteasome-dependent mechanism. Because proteasome degradation often depends on prior phosphorylation, and indeed treatment of MM1 cells with the proteasome inhibitor MG132 resulted in the accumulation of CYCD3;1 in a hyperphosphorylated form, we speculated that Ser-343 might determine the stability of CYCD3;1, particularly given that it is located within the C-terminal PEST sequence (Figure 7B) (CITATION). However, no significant difference was observed between the stability of CYCD3;1 and CYCD3-S343A when de novo protein synthesis was blocked by treating cells with cycloheximide (Figure 8B), and both showed similar stability to endogenous CYCD3;1, which was calculated to have a half-life of 7 min under these conditions (CITATION). Despite the apparent absence of constitutive phosphorylation of CYCD3;1-S343A during normal growth conditions, on MG132 treatment CYCD3-S343A accumulates in a hyperphosphorylated form, as does the wild-type protein (CITATION), indicating that Ser-343 is neither required for degradation nor phosphorylated as part of the degradation process (Figure 8C). Therefore, additional and/or multiple phosphorylation(s) is presumably involved in the degradation of CYCD3;1.
!~MM~! Suspension cultures of Arabidopsis thaliana cell lines MM1 and MM2d (CITATION) were used, both of which were selected from a cell suspension originally produced from Landsberg erecta stem explants by CITATION. For routine subculture, cell lines MM1, MM2d, and transgenic derivatives were maintained as described previously in Murashige and Skoog salts (MSS) medium (ICN Biomedicals) with addition of 3% sucrose, 0.5 mg/L napthalene acetic acid, and 0.05 mg/L kinetin (CITATION). MM1 and MM2d cells were transformed with constructs of CYCD3;1 (CITATION) and CYCD2;1 (CITATION; CITATION), as described previously (CITATION). Transgenic cell cultures 35S:CYCD3;1-1 and 35S:CYCD2;1 were derived from line MM2d. A culture of line 35S:CYCD3;1-1 was transferred to continuous light (designated 35S:CYCD3;1-2) and incubated for a period of 1 year under these conditions before further analysis. 35S:CYCD3;1-3/4 and 35S:S343A were derived from line MM1. For growth analysis, 5 mL of an early stationary phase culture (7 d after subculture) was inoculated into 100 mL of fresh MSS and incubated. Samples were taken at ∼24-h intervals, and cells were observed microscopically and counted in triplicate in a counting chamber (0.2-mm depth). To determine nuclear DNA content, a sample of frozen cell pellets was treated to release nuclei and analyzed by flow cytometry as described (CITATION). Calculation for cell doubling time and phase duration were as described by CITATION. Trypan blue staining of dead or dying cells was as described by CITATION. Mutagenesis was performed using the QuikChange site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene) (Table 2 ). The CYCD3;1 open reading frame cloned into the pART7 vector (CITATION) was used as a template. All mutations were confirmed by sequencing. Mutated CYCD3;1 was subsequently cloned into the binary transformation vector pART27 (CITATION) and transformed into bacterial strain GV3101. These constructs were used to transform Arabidopsis MM1 and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cell cultures. Primers Used for Site-Directed Mutagenesis of CYCD3;1 For sucrose depletion experiments, an aliquot of 3-d-old cells was gently washed twice by centrifugation with MS medium (composition the same as MSS, but lacking sucrose), as described previously (CITATION), resuspended, and diluted 1:5 in fresh MS medium (i.e., lacking sucrose) or MS medium supplemented with 0.3% sucrose or 3% sucrose. Samples were taken every 3 h over a 12-h range and after 24 and 48 h and analyzed by flow cytometry. Arabidopsis MM1, MM2d, and transgenic derivative cell lines 35S:CYCD3;1, 35S:CYCD2;1, and 35S:S343A were reversibly blocked in late G1/early S-phase with aphidicolin, as described previously (CITATION). After removal of aphidicolin by washing, samples were taken hourly for analysis of DNA distribution by flow cytometry. RNA was extracted (CITATION), and the expression of marker genes was analyzed by RT-PCR, as described previously (CITATION) (Table 3 ). Relative expression was calculated using the 2-ΔΔCT method (CITATION), in which the observed threshold cycle (CT) value of the RNA sample for the transgenic line was compared with an equivalent wild-type RNA sample. CT values of both samples were normalized using Actin-2 as an internal control. Accession Numbers of Genes and Primer Pairs Used for RT-PCR Procedures for protein extraction, immunoprecipitation, peptide competition, and protein gel blot analysis were as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). For detection of the conserved PSTAIRE sequence of CDKA, a mouse monoclonal anti-PSTAIRE antibody was used (Sigma-Aldrich; catalog number P7962; dilution, 1:1000). Procedures for λ protein phosphatase, cycloheximide, and MG132 treatment were as described by CITATION. The accession numbers of genes referred to in this article are listed in Table 3. The following material is available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Expression of HISTONE H4 RNA to Monitor S-Phase Progression.
