!~ABS~! Small heat-shock proteins (sHsps) are widespread molecular chaperones for which a peroxisomal localization has not yet been reported. The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genome encodes two sHsps with putative peroxisomal targeting signals type 1 or 2 (PTS1 or PTS2). As demonstrated by double-labeling experiments using full-length fusion proteins with enhanced yellow fluorescent protein and deletion constructs lacking the putative targeting domains, AtHsp15.7 (At5g37670) and AtAcd31.2 (At1g06460) are targeted to the peroxisome matrix by a functional PTS1 (SKL>) and a functional PTS2 (RLx5HF), respectively. The peroxisomal localization of AtAcd31.2 was further confirmed by isolation of leaf peroxisomes from Arabidopsis by two successive sucrose density gradients, protein separation by one- and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, and mass spectrometric protein identification. When AtHsp15.7 and AtAcd31.2 were heterologously expressed in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and directed to the cytosol by deletion of the PTSs, both sHsps were able to complement the morphological phenotype of yeast mutants deficient in the cytosolic homologs ScHsp42 or ScHsp26. According to expression studies by reverse transcription-PCR, AtAcd31.2 is constitutively expressed, whereas AtHsp15.7 is hardly expressed under normal conditions but strongly induced by heat and oxidative stress, the latter of which was triggered by the catalase inhibitor 3-aminotriazole or the herbicide methyl viologen applied by watering of whole plants or infiltration of rosette leaves. Thus, plants are exceptional among eukaryotes in employing sHsps in the peroxisome matrix to prevent unspecific aggregation of partially denatured proteins under both physiological and stress conditions.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome encodes two predicted proteins possessing both an α-crystallin domain (Hsp20, Pfam00011) and putative targeting signals for plant peroxisomes (CITATION). The smaller homolog, referred to as AtHsp15.7 throughout this study (At5g37670, previously AtHsp15.7-CI for cytosolic class I; CITATION), carries the putative major PTS1 SKL> with high peroxisome targeting probability and a predicted mitochondrial presequence (CITATION; Fig. 1A ). The second sHsp homolog AtAcd31.2 (At1g06460) contains a longer N-terminal extension and an α-crystallin domain of lower E value (E value = 5.8 × 10−6) compared to AtHsp15.7 (E = 3.2 × 10−24), indicating a higher sequence divergence of AtAcd31.2 from the defined Hsp20 motif (HMMER, hmmer.wustl.edu; Fig. 1, A and B). Phylogenetic analysis of sHsp homologs from diverse eukaryotes shows that several subclades of Arabidopsis sHsps and proteins containing one or several α-crystallin domains (Acd proteins) diverged early in evolution (CITATION; Supplemental Fig. 1). The homolog AtAcd31.2 carries both a predicted PTS2 nonapeptide (RLx5HF) and a predicted PTS1 tripeptide (PKL>; Fig. 1A), both of which have been defined as minor PTS peptides and presumably indicate peroxisome targeting with moderate probability (CITATION). A search of expressed sequence tag (EST) databases for plant homologs that share high sequence similarity with these proteins demonstrated that the putative PTS1 of AtHsp15.7 and the putative PTS2 of AtAcd31.2 in particular are largely conserved, suggesting that these proteins represent orthologs and are generally targeted to peroxisomes in higher plants (Supplemental Fig. 2). [[FIGURE]] The cDNAs of AtHsp15.7 and AtAcd31.2 were cloned by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR from flowers and cold-stressed rosette leaves, respectively, and fused in frame to either of both ends of enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP) in a plant expression vector under the control of a 2-fold 35S promoter of the Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV; CITATION). Onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells were transformed biolistically, and subcellular protein targeting of the fusion proteins was analyzed upon transient gene expression by fluorescence microscopy. The fusion protein EYFP:AtHsp15.7 with accessible C-terminal tripeptide SKL> was targeted to small punctate structures that moved quickly along cytoplasmic strands in living cells in single transformants (Fig. 2A). These punctate structures coincided with peroxisomes labeled with a control fusion protein between the PTS2 domain of glyoxysomal malate dehydrogenase from C. sativus (CsgMDH) and enhanced cyan fluorescent protein (CsgMDH:ECFP; CITATION), as shown for double transformants expressing simultaneously EYFP:AtHsp15.7 and CsgMDH:ECFP (Fig. 2, B and C). By contrast, mitochondria labeled with a fusion protein comprising the presequence of mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase from yeast in frame to the N-terminal end of ECFP (ScCOX:ECFP; CITATION) differed from the organelles labeled with EYFP:AtHsp15.7 (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Upon deletion of the putative C-terminal targeting domain from AtHsp15.7, the shortened fusion protein EYFP:AtHsp15.7ΔPTS1 remained in the cytosol (Fig. 2D; Supplemental Table I), demonstrating that the C-terminal domain is necessary for targeting of AtHsp15.7 to peroxisomes and that SKL> is the PTS1 of the protein. The inversely arranged fusion protein AtHsp15.7:EYFP with accessible N-terminal end was detected in the cytosol, strongly suggesting that AtHsp15.7 lacks a functional mitochondrial presequence (Fig. 2E). The C-terminal fusion protein of AtAcd31.2, referred to as AtAcd31.2:EYFP, with accessible N-terminal PTS2 was also targeted to peroxisomes, as shown by double labeling (Fig. 2, F–H). The deletion construct AtAcd31.2ΔPTS2:EYFP lacking the 29 most N-terminal residues including the putative PTS2 (RLx5HF, position 11–19) was no longer targeted to peroxisomes. In line with a moderately confident prediction of a transit peptide in the N-terminal end of this deletion construct (e.g. TargetP: 0.70), however, this fusion protein entered plastids, as indicated by the larger size of the organelles and their characteristic stromuli extensions (data not shown). Conclusive evidence that the N-terminal domain of AtAcd31.2 possesses a functional PTS2 was obtained by site-directed mutagenesis of the putative PTS2 nonapeptide. When the strictly conserved His residue at position 8 of the putative PTS2 (CITATION; CITATION) was mutated to Asp (RLx5HF→RLx5DF), the full-length fusion protein remained cytosolic (Fig. 2I). To investigate if AtAcd31.2 contains in addition to the PTS2 a functional PTS1, EYFP was fused to its N-terminal end allowing the C-terminal tripeptide PKL> of AtAcd31.2 to be recognized by the cytosolic PTS1 receptor, Pex5p. The full-length fusion protein EYFP:AtAcd31.2 was likewise targeted to peroxisomes labeled with ECFP (Fig. 2, J and K). However, deletion of the C-terminal tripeptide (EYFP:AtAcd31.2ΔPTS1) did not abolish peroxisome targeting (Fig. 2, L and M). Likewise, a mutated construct, in which the essential basic residue of the putative PTS1 was exchanged to Glu (PKL→PEL), remained peroxisomal (Fig. 2, N and O). In summary, these results demonstrated that AtHsp15.7 and AtAcd31.2 are both peroxisomal proteins that are targeted to the matrix by a functional PTS1 and PTS2, respectively, and that the putative PTS1 of AtAcd31.2 is not required for peroxisome targeting. To provide a second independent line of evidence for targeting of these novel sHsps to plant peroxisomes, a method was established to isolate leaf peroxisomes from Arabidopsis. In a first Suc density gradient a significant quantity of intact leaf peroxisomes was efficiently separated from chloroplasts, thylakoids, and mitochondria and enriched near the bottom of the gradient, as indicated by the activities of appropriate organelle marker enzymes (Fig. 3A ). A second Suc density gradient was added to achieve flotation of residual contaminating plastids and mitochondria to the upper fractions and concentration of leaf peroxisomes near the bottom of the gradient (Fig. 3B). Leaf peroxisomal proteins isolated from standard Arabidopsis plants were separated by one- or two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Candidate protein bands and spots in the lower Mr and basic isoelectric point (IEP) range corresponding to the predicted size and IEP of AtAcd31.2 (AtAcd31.2: MW = 31.2, IEP = 9.82) were in-gel digested by trypsin and subsequently identified by mass spectrometry. In line with the constitutive expression of AtAcd31.2 (see below), a protein band of an apparent molecular mass of about 30 kD, as well as a distinct protein spot of the same approximate molecular mass and an IEP of about 9.5, was identified as AtAcd31.2 from at least two independent one- and two-dimensional gels, respectively (see Fig. 4, A and B, for representative gel images). On the basis of the peptide mass fingerprinting data, the protein was identified as At1g06460 (gi 15221505) with sequence coverages greater than 40%. The protein identification was further confirmed by tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) and sequence analysis of at least two tryptic peptides that had been assigned to AtAcd31.2 in the fingerprint analysis. In an analogous manner, leaf peroxisomal control proteins (Fig. 4, A and B) were identified by a combination of peptide mass fingerprint and MS/MS data. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Activity analyses of putative sHsps generally rely on in vitro refolding assays using recombinant sHsps and denatured citrate synthase as model substrate (CITATION; CITATION). CITATION recently reported a morphological phenotype of heat-stressed yeast knockout mutants that are deficient in cytosolic sHsps and that now allow functional complementation studies of heterologously expressed sHsp genes from other organisms. Yeast expresses two sHsps, referred to as ScHsp26 and ScHsp42 (Supplemental Fig. 1), both of which are localized in the cytosol and show a broad and unspecific substrate specificity (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). At late logarithmic phase and when subjected to a heat shock, the morphology of the deletion strains changes dramatically compared to the wild type, resembling wrinkled cells undergoing dehydration or aging, as observed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Based on further lines of evidence including increased protein aggregation in the deletion strains (see CITATION), the altered cell morphology is thought to reflect a general disturbance in proteome homeostasis in the sHsp-deficient mutants. To investigate whether yeast and plant peroxisomal sHsps have a conserved chaperone function and can mutually complement a functional defect, the cDNAs of AtHsp15.7 and AtAcd31.2 were expressed by deletion of the PTSs as presumably cytosolic proteins from a Gal-inducible promoter in single or double deletion mutants, and the change in cell morphology was analyzed by SEM. Except for AtAcd31.2ΔPTS1 expressed in Δhsp26, both plant peroxisomal sHsps were able to complement the morphological defects of the single mutants deficient in ΔScHsp42 or ΔScHsp26 and the double mutant lacking both sHsps (Fig. 5 ). In addition, expression of AtHsp15.7ΔPTS1 and AtAcd31.2 ΔPTS1+2 led to a reduction of unspecific protein aggregation in the complemented yeast deletion strains after heat stress (Fig. 6 ). These results demonstrate that not only AtHsp15.7, but also AtAcd31.2, which notably belongs to a novel family of largely unknown Acd proteins with a weakly conserved α-crystallin domain (Fig. 1B; Supplemental Table II), is capable of suppressing the aggregation of a broad variety of cytosolic substrate proteins under heat stress conditions in yeast. It was concluded that both Arabidopsis proteins play a role as chaperones in the peroxisome matrix similar to yeast sHsps (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Small Hsps play an important role in plant stress tolerance because they assist in refolding of proteins that have been denatured under abiotic stress conditions such as high temperature, drought, high salt concentration, or elevated light intensity (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Because sHsps are generally regulated at the transcriptional level (CITATION), isoform-specific expression data may indicate their involvement in stress tolerance. According to publicly available expression data retrieved using GENEVESTIGATOR (www.genevestigator.ethz.ch; CITATION), AtHsp15.7 is rather weakly expressed at most stages of plant development and in different organs, showing highest mRNA levels in roots, seeds, and suspension-cultured cells (Supplemental Fig. 3, A and B). In contrast, AtAcd31.2 is overall highly expressed at levels that exceed those of AtHsp15.7 in seedlings, leaves, flowers, and siliques about 5- to 20-fold (Supplemental Fig. 3, A and B), suggesting a constitutive expression of AtAcd31.2 under physiological conditions. To investigate the expression of both peroxisomal sHsps in more detail, the effects of various abiotic stress conditions on sHsp expression in leaves were analyzed by RT-PCR using gene-specific oligonucleotide primers. When soil-grown Arabidopsis plants were transferred from ambient (22°C) to elevated (37°C) or cold temperature (5°C), the expression of AtHsp15.7 was hardly detectable under normal growth conditions or upon cold treatment but was quickly induced after 30 min heat shock (Fig. 7A ). The pronounced induction of AtHsp15.7 expression was not due to stress-induced peroxisome proliferation and overall enhanced gene expression of peroxisomal proteins (CITATION), because the expression level of house-keeping genes of leaf peroxisomal enzymes, such as peroxisomal malate dehydrogenase 1 (AtpMDH1, At5g09660; Fig. 7A), was not altered by increased temperature, demonstrating that AtHsp15.7 was specifically induced by heat stress among plant peroxisomal matrix proteins. By contrast, AtAcd31.2 was constitutively expressed under standard growth conditions and not further induced by heat (Fig. 7A). [[FIGURE]] Under elevated light and temperature conditions, the ratio of oxygenation-to-carboxylation increases (CITATION), and ROS production is enhanced both in chloroplasts (mainly O2−• and H2O2) and peroxisomes (mainly H2O2), possibly stimulating expression of AtHsp15.7. During the long-day light period at either standard (about 100 μE m−2 s−1) or a maximum light intensity of 450 μE m−2 s−1, at which the temperature could still be controlled at about 23°C, no obvious induction of AtHsp15.7 was observed (Fig. 7B), suggesting that elevated ROS levels were efficiently reduced by CAT and the auxiliary antioxidative enzymes. To investigate whether a stronger ROS production affected the expression of peroxisomal sHsps, the CAT inhibitor 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (3-AT) and the herbicide methyl viologen, which inhibits the D1 protein of PSII and leads to the production of O2−• in chloroplasts, were applied to soil-grown plants by watering to induce ROS production within the peroxisomal matrix or in chloroplasts, respectively. After 12 h of 3-AT application, AtHsp15.7 was strongly induced (Fig. 7C). Interestingly, expression of AtAcd31.2 seemed to decline concomitantly to AtHsp15.7 induction (Fig. 7C; see also Fig. 7, A and D). As for the temperature dependence of gene expression, the drastic increase of AtHsp15.7 expression was gene specific and not found for AtpMDH1 (Fig. 7C). Application of 100 μm methyl viologen had a comparable but minor effect on AtHsp15.7 expression with maximum levels toward the end of the light period (12 h; Fig. 7C). Because uptake of ROS-producing agents from the soil by the plants is difficult to control, gene expression of peroxisomal sHsps was confirmed in an alternative experimental system, i.e. by infiltrating Arabidopsis leaves with the same chemicals. Leaf infiltration with 100 μm 3-AT induced expression of AtHsp15.7 after 3 h with constant levels up to the end of the light period (12 h) and lower levels in the beginning of the light period of the second day (24 h; Fig. 7D). Control plants infiltrated with solution lacking any inhibitor showed a minor induction of AtHsp15.7 expression similar to standard plants (Fig. 7B), suggesting that leaf wounding itself did not alter AtHsp15.7 expression to a considerable extent. Likewise, infiltration with 10 μm methyl viologen induced expression of AtHsp15.7 within about 3 h (Fig. 7D). In both experimental systems, the expression of AtAcd31.2 was not induced by any of the effectors applied. Degenerative symptoms such as leaf bleaching were not observed during the time period of analysis (data not shown). In summary, the inducible gene expression of AtHsp15.7 by elevated temperature and ROS-generating chemicals compared to the constant mRNA levels of AtAcd31.2 supported a stress-inducible and general house-keeping function of AtHsp15.7 and AtAcd31.2 in plant peroxisomes, respectively.
!~MM~! Standard Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Columbia plants were grown for about 4 weeks in a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle at 22°C under a light intensity of 100 to 150 μE m−2 s−1. All the stress treatments were initiated after 3 h of light. For heat and cold stress experiments, plants were incubated in the dark at 37°C and 5°C, respectively, whereas the control plants were incubated at 22°C in the dark. For high light stress, the light intensity was raised to 450 μE m−2 s−1 while keeping the temperature constant at about 23°C. Control plants grown at the same temperature, but under normal light, were analyzed in parallel. For the oxidative stress experiments, soil-grown plants were either watered with 5 mm 3-AT or 100 μm methyl viologen (about 50 mL/9-cm pot and day), or rosette leaves were infiltrated with 100 μm 3-AT or 10 μm methyl viologen (in water) using a syringe and floated on inhibitor solution. Rosette leaves infiltrated with water were used as a mock control. Total RNA was isolated from different tissues of Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia using the Invisorb Spin plant mini kit (Invitek). Full-length cDNAs for AtHsp15.7 (At5g37670) and AtAcd31.2 (At1g06460) were isolated from flowers and cold-treated rosette leaves, respectively, using appropriate oligonucleotide primers (Supplemental Table I). Total RNA was converted to single-strand cDNA by reverse transcriptase (Superscript III, Invitrogen) and used as template for PCR using a proof-reading DNA polymerase (Thermozyme, Invitrogen). Amplified products were subcloned into pGEMT using the pGEM-T Easy Vector system (Promega) and sequenced. Amplification errors that resulted in amino acid exchanges were not observed. Semiquantitative RT-PCR was performed using a First-Strand cDNA Synthesis kit (MBI, Fermentas) according to the manufacturer's instruction. For PCR, standard parameter and an appropriate number of cycles were used (AtHsp15.7 and ubiquitin, 30 cycles; AtAcd31.2, 26 cycles; and AtpMDH1, 24 cycles). Complete removal of residual genomic DNA by enzymatic digestion was verified for the intronless gene of AtHsp15.7 using control samples lacking reverse transcriptase. The specificity of AtHsp15.7 amplification was confirmed by restriction endonuclease digest of the RT-PCR products. All RT-PCR experiments were repeated at least three times using independent plant material. Targeting prediction was performed as described earlier (CITATION). Fusion proteins with N- or C-terminally located EYFP were generated by PCR (Supplemental Table I) to investigate the function of C-terminal and N-terminal targeting signals, respectively, and subcloned in frame into the plant expression vectors pCAT-EYFP-Nfus and pCAT-EYFP-Cfus (CITATION) under control of a double 35S CaMV promoter. The C-terminal deletion construct EYFP:AtHsp15.7ΔPTS1 lacked the C-terminal 14 residues including the putative PTS1 SKL>. The deletion constructs AtAcd31.2ΔPTS2:EYFP and EYFP:AtAcd31.2ΔPTS1 lacked the N-terminal 29 residues including the putative PTS2 (RLx5HF, residues 11–19) or the C-terminal tripeptide PKL>, respectively (Supplemental Table I). Site-directed mutagenesis (PTS2 of AtAcd31.2, RLx5HF to RLx5DF; PTS1, PKL> to PEL>) was performed using PfuUltra high-fidelity DNA polymerase for mutagenic primer-directed replication of both plasmid strands of AtAcd31.2:EYFP in pCAT-EYFP-Cfus and EYFP:AtAcd31.2 in pCAT-EYFP-Nfus using the Quick-Change II site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene; Supplemental Table I). Onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells were transformed biolistically as described (Biolistic PDS 1000/He Biolistic Particle Delivery system, Bio-Rad; CITATION) using 1,100 psi rupture discs and a vacuum of 0.1 bar. All subcellular analyses were reproduced at least three times in independent experiments. Deletion constructs of AtHsp15.7 or AtAcd31.2 lacking the C-terminal three residues and/or the N-terminal PTS2 (residues 1–29), referred to as AtHsp15.7ΔPTS1, AtAcd31.2ΔPTS1, and AtAcd31.2ΔPTS1+2, were generated to target the proteins to the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) cytosol and subcloned without any terminal tags into the pYES2.1-topo cloning vector under the control of a GAL1 promoter and containing the URA3 gene for selection of transformants (pYES2.1 TOPO TA expression kit, Invitrogen). After transformation, yeast deletion strains deficient in ScHsp42 and/or ScHsp26 (CITATION) and expressing Arabidopsis sHsps were first selected on complete supplement media lacking uracil (CSM-URA) and containing Glc. Prior to induction of the expression of the peroxisomal sHsps, mid logarithmic phase cells cultivated at 30°C were transferred to CSM-URA media containing raffinose for 2 h. Next, the cells were transferred to CSM-URA media containing Gal for induction. After 4 h of induction, the cultures were heat shocked for 1 h at 43°C and subsequently analyzed by SEM. As negative control, equally treated cells transformed with the empty vector pYES2 were used. To determine the total amount of aggregated protein in the complemented yeast strains, 2 × 108 yeast cells were collected subsequently after heat shock and lysed using a Basic Z cell disrupter at 2.5 kbar (Constant Systems). After separation of cellular fragments by gentle centrifugation at 500g for 10 min, insoluble protein aggregates were sedimented by centrifugation (10 min, 13,000g at 4°C) and analyzed by SDS-PAGE. Analysis of onion epidermal cells was performed using a fluorescence microscope (Olympus BX51) with the following filter sets: EYFP (F41-028; excitation filter HQ500/20, barrier HQ535/30), and ECFP (F31-044; excitation filter D436/20, barrier D480/40). Digital images were captured using a CCD camera (ColorViewII) with analySIS3.1 Imaging software (Soft imagine system GMDH). For analysis of yeast morphology, cells were fixed and prepared as described by CITATION. SEM was performed with a JEOL 5900 LV microscope. Pictures were taken at a constant voltage of 20 kV and a spot size of 20 nm at a magnification of 5,500×. Leaves were ground in grinding buffer (170 mm Tricine-KOH, pH 7.5, 1.0 m Suc, 1% (w/v) bovine serum albumin (BSA), 2 mm EDTA, 5 mm dithiothreitol, 10 mm KCl, and 1 mm MgCl2) in the presence of protease inhibitors using a mortar and a pestle, the suspension filtered, and chloroplasts were sedimented at 5,000g (1 min). Leaf peroxisomes were sedimented onto a Suc cushion of 50% (w/w) by centrifugation at 20,000g for 5 min. The resuspended organelles were homogenized using a Potter-Elvehjem homogenizer, loaded onto a Suc density gradient prepared in TE buffer (10 mm Tricine-KOH, pH 7.5, 1 mm EDTA) supplemented with 0.5% (w/v) BSA (from the top to the bottom: 2 mL 30% [w/w], 3 mL 35% [w/w], linear gradient of 2× 7.5 mL 40% to 52% [w/w], 3 mL 52% [w/w], 5 mL 60% [w/w]), and centrifuged for 2 h at 80,000g (Beckman SW28 rotor). For analytical purpose, the gradient was fractionated in 2-mL fractions. For preparative purposes, the peroxisome fraction located at the interface between 52% and 60% (w/w) Suc was harvested, combined from several gradients, diluted to 48% (w/w), and loaded onto a second Suc density gradient (linear part of 6 mL each 48% and 60% [w/w], 3 mL 60% [w/w] in TE buffer lacking BSA) by diluting the peroxisome fraction in a gradient mixer with 40% (w/w) in TE buffer. For two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, BSA was omitted in all Suc solutions of a density higher than 40% (w/w). The proteins were precipitated according to CITATION, dissolved in urea buffer (7 m urea, 2 m thiourea, 4% [w/v] CHAPS, 0.5% immobilized pH gradient (IPG) buffer, and 3 mg/mL dithiothreitol) and subjected to isoelectric focusing (nonlinear IPG strip, pH 3–10). For SDS-PAGE and the second dimension, the proteins were separated on a large 7.5% to 15% acrylamide gradient gel under denaturing conditions and stained with silver or colloidal Coomassie Blue. Chlorophyll and protein were determined according to CITATION and CITATION, respectively. The activities of marker enzymes (hydroxypyruvate reductase [HPR] for leaf peroxisomes, fumarase for mitochondria, and NADP-GAPDH for chloroplasts) were determined as described earlier (CITATION). Excised spots were subjected to automated in-gel digest with prior alkylation according to standard protocols supplied with the ProTeam Advanced Digest system (Tecan). Mass spectrometry grade trypsin was purchased from Promega. For the acquisition of peptide mass fingerprints by matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization time of flight-mass spectrometry, the peptides extracted from the gel plugs were applied to a prestructured sample support (AnchorChip target; Bruker Daltonics) coated with a thin layer of α-cyano-4-hydroxy-cinnamic acid (CITATION) using the same liquid handling system as for the in-gel digest. The target was inserted into a Bruker Ultraflex TOF/TOF instrument (CITATION) and submitted to an automated analysis loop using external calibration. Database searches in the NCBInr primary sequence database restricted to the taxonomy Arabidopsis were performed using the Mascot Software 2.0 (Matrix Science) with carboxamidomethylation of Cys as fixed and oxidation of Met as variable modification, respectively. The monoisotopic mass tolerance was set to 100 ppm and one missed cleavage was allowed. For confirmation of the peptide mass fingerprinting results, the samples were analyzed by MS/MS using the LIFT technology of the Ultraflex TOF/TOF instrument (CITATION) to obtain sequence information of selected peptides. Database searches using combined peptide mass fingerprint and MS/MS datasets were performed as described above with the fragment mass tolerance set to 0.7 D. Sequence data from this article can be found in the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession numbers DQ403190 (AtHsp15.7, At5g37670) and DQ403189 (AtAcd31.2, At1g06460).
