!~ABS~! Vernalization is the acceleration of flowering by prolonged cold that aligns the onset of reproductive development with spring conditions. A key step of vernalization in Arabidopsis is the epigenetic silencing of FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC), which encodes a repressor of flowering. The vernalization-induced epigenetic silencing of FLC is associated with histone deacetylation and H3K27me2 and H3K9me2 methylation mediated by VRN/VIN proteins. We have analyzed whether different histone methyltransferases and the chromodomain protein LIKE HETEROCHROMATIN PROTEIN (LHP)1 might play a role in vernalization. No single loss-of-function mutation in the histone methyltransferases studied disrupted the vernalization response; however, lhp1 mutants revealed a role for LHP1 in maintaining epigenetic silencing of FLC. Like LHP1, VRN1 functions in both flowering-time control and vernalization. We explored the localization of VRN1 and found it to be associated generally with Arabidopsis chromosomes but not the heterochromatic chromocenters. This association did not depend on vernalization or VRN2 function and was maintained during mitosis but was lost in meiotic chromosomes, suggesting that VRN1 may contribute to chromatin silencing that is not meiotically stable.
!~RES~! The KYP histone methyltransferase (also known as SUVH4) has been shown to be essential for most of the H3K9me2 in Arabidopsis (CITATION). To analyze whether KYP was involved in the vernalization-induced H3K9 methylation at FLC, the kyp-2 mutation [in Landsberg erecta (Ler)] was introduced into fca-1 (also in Ler). fca-1 causes a vernalization-responsive late-flowering phenotype that can provide the background to test the role of various factors in vernalization. kyp-2 fca-1 flowered at approximately the same time as fca-1 and showed a similar suppression of FLC expression and accelerated flowering after vernalization; thus, we can conclude that KYP is not necessary for FLC regulation (FIG-REF A and Table 1). To expand the search for a histone methyltransferase involved in vernalization, we examined FLC levels in seven additional suvh mutants and four suvr mutants (see Table 2, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). The suvh and suvr alleles (in Columbia) contain mutations in genes related to KYP that contain SET domains predicted to methylate histone 3 (CITATION). The mutants include a T-DNA insertion in SUVH2, a gene recently described as being essential for an array of repressive histone methylation marks (CITATION). These mutants were examined by a combination of Northern blots and RT-PCR of nonvernalized and vernalized tissue (FIG-REF B and C). Although many of the suv mutants displayed moderately reduced levels of FLC in nonvernalized seedlings, none was impaired in the ability to repress FLC in response to vernalization. [[FIGURE]] Flowering time of different genotypes To discover whether LHP1 plays a role in FLC silencing, the vernalization response of plants deficient in LHP1 was analyzed. The lhp1-3 allele was crossed into a line containing an active FRIGIDA allele and an FLC/luciferase translational fusion. The FLC/luciferase fusion mirrors the regulation of the endogenous FLC gene in response to both FRIGIDA, fca mutations and vernalization and, so, provides an effective assay to follow FLC expression (CITATION). The lhp1-3 mutation did not alter FLC/luciferase expression in nonvernalized seedlings but resulted in increased expression in vernalized seedlings (FIG-REF A and B). Detailed time-course analysis of FLC expression in Columbia and FRIGIDA + backgrounds showed that FLC expression was repressed in lhp1-3 mutants like wild type during the cold but then increased during subsequent growth in warm temperatures (FIG-REF C and D). To ensure that this was not an effect of a mutation linked to lhp1-3, we tested the vernalization response of lhp1-4 and lhp1-5 and found that all lhp alleles were equally compromised in their ability to suppress FLC by vernalization (data not shown). A reduction of FLC levels in the cold, followed by increased expression later is similar to that observed in the vrn mutants (CITATION, CITATION) and suggests that LHP1 is required for maintenance of FLC repression postvernalization. Analysis of flowering time in lhp1-3 FRI plants was complicated by ectopic expression of FT in the lhp1-3 background, a floral promoter that functions downstream of FLC, demonstrating the importance of assaying FLC expression rather than flowering time (Table 1). [[FIGURE]] VRN1 is a protein with two plant-specific B3 domains and binds dsDNA non-sequence-specifically in vitro (CITATION). Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments have shown that VRN1 is associated with FLC chromatin (CITATION). To further analyze its in vivo DNA-binding properties, Arabidopsis transformants carrying a VRN1/GFP translational fusion (GFP at the translation termination site in a VRN1 genomic fragment) were generated (FIG-REF A). A single locus line was chosen and found to be fully functional, because it could restore the vernalization response of the late flowering vrn1-2 fca-1 double mutant to that of fca-1 (Table 1). In vivo, VRN1/GFP localized strongly and evenly throughout the nucleoplasm, with very little fluorescence in the nucleolus and cytoplasm (FIG-REF B and C). Examination of root tips revealed that VRN1/GFP appeared to localize to all Arabidopsis chromosomes (only four are clearly seen in the figure), remaining associated throughout mitosis (FIG-REF C). The VRN1/GFP pattern in interphase cells also indicated a specific subnuclear location. To examine this finding further, we performed immunodetection experiments using an antibody raised against full-length VRN1 in parallel with H3K4me2 and H3K9me2 antibodies. The latter two are cytological marks for euchromatin and visible heterochromatin, respectively. Whereas H3K9me2 labels the chromocenters, the VRN1 and H3K4me2 signals were both located outside the chromocenters (FIG-REF D–G). However, VRN1 and H3K4me2 showed different labeling intensities at particular locations, suggesting localization at different targets within the chromosomal arms. This localization is illustrated by the green-yellow-orange-red pattern caused by overlay of DAPI, K4, and VRN1 immunofluorescence signals (FIG-REF F). [[FIGURE]] Because VRN1 associates with mitotic chromosomes, we investigated whether it was also associated with meiotic chromosomes by immunolocalization on chromosome-spread preparations from anthers. In somatic nuclei, chromocenters and nucleoli can be observed, whereas, in meiotic nuclei, individual chromosome fibers become visible. We found that somatic cells stained strongly for VRN1, whereas no signal was detectable in meiotic nuclei at midprophase I (FIG-REF A and C). This condition persisted to a later stage of meiosis, where the VRN1 signal was detected in somatic cells but not in microspores (FIG-REF E). This result is not due to an inability to label meiotic cells, because an H3K4me2 signal was detectable in midprophase nuclei (FIG-REF B). Somatic cells, such as the binucleate tapetum cells, also labeled well with anti-H3K4me2. The H3K9me2 antibody also labeled the chromocenters of both tapetum and midprophase nuclei (FIG-REF D). Analysis of subsequent pollen stages was prevented by the formation of impenetrable cell walls. The loss of VRN1 association in meiotic chromosomes could be caused by a changed localization of the protein or reduced expression of VRN1. Examination of the publicly available microarray data (CITATION) shows that VRN1 expression can be detected throughout vegetative development in flowers and developing embryos but is ≈10-fold lower in mature pollen (FIG-REF F). Thus, it seems likely that a reduced expression causes the loss of VRN1 association to meiotic chromosomes. [[FIGURE]] The requirement for prolonged cold for VRN1 action on FLC led us to analyze whether the VRN1/GFP localization was altered by vernalization. No obvious changes were detected at the level of resolution provided by confocal microscopy (data not shown); however, this assay would not detect changes occurring at specific loci. We also addressed whether VRN1 may be recruited to its site of action by a function associated with VRN2 activity. The general chromosome association of VRN1 supports the idea that it is not an FLC-specific regulator (CITATION), which also appears to be the case for VRN2 (CITATION). Localization of VRN1/GFP was therefore analyzed in a vrn2 mutant background, but no obvious difference to wild-type plants was observed (see Fig. 5, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). VRN2 is therefore not required for the general chromosomal association of VRN1; however, this assay would not detect changes occurring at specific loci. VRN2 is part of a three-member gene family in the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION) with EMF2 (CITATION) and FIS2 (CITATION). VRN2 and EMF2 are expressed in vegetative tissue (CITATION, CITATION), whereas FIS2 function is thought to be restricted to seed development (CITATION, CITATION). The similar expression pattern and documented functional redundancy between VRN2 and EMF2 (CITATION) led us to test whether VRN1/GFP chromosome association in seedlings was altered in a vrn2-1 emf2-3 double mutant. Given the likely functional association of VRN2 with an ENHANCER OF ZESTE [E(z)] protein, we also tested VRN1/GFP chromosomal association in a double mutant defective in the E(z) homologues CURLY LEAF (CLF) and SWINGER (SWN) clf-50 swn-3 (CITATION, CITATION). The general chromosomal association of VRN1/GFP, however, appeared to be wild type in both vrn2-1 emf2-3 and clf-50 swn-3 (Fig. 5).
!~MM~! For details of growth conditions, refer to figure legends; and see Supporting Materials and Methods, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site. Details of mutants included in this study and methods for genotyping are included in Table 3, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site. To analyze the FLC expression pattern in lhp1-3, a parent line in Ler containing FLC/luciferase and functional FRIGIDA (CITATION) was introgressed five times into Columbia before crossing to lhp1-3, also referred to as tfl2-1 (CITATION). The VRN1/GFP translational fusion contains a Ler VRN1 genomic fragment region from 1,879-bp upstream of the ATG to 630-bp downstream of the stop codon. The VRN1 stop codon was modified into a BamHI site by using the QuikChange Site-Directed Mutagenesis kit (Stratagene), which was used to insert in-frame coding sequences for GFP from pAVA120 (CITATION). The VRN1/GFP fusion was cloned into the binary vector pSLJ75516 (CITATION) and transformed into the vrn1-2 fca-1 double mutant (CITATION). VRN1/GFP plants were imaged by using a Leica SP1 confocal system. GFP was excited by using 488-nm light from an Argon Ion laser and imaged by using emission filter 500–50 nm. For immunodetection of VRN1 during meiosis, VRN1/GFP vrn1-2 fca-1 anthers were fixed and prepared as described in Jasencakova et al. (CITATION), with minor modifications. Samples were immunolabeled essentially as described in Soppe et al. (CITATION). The primary antibodies used were rabbit anti-dimethyl-lysine 4 of histone H3 (07-030 Lot#22672, 1:100; Upstate Biotechnology, Lake Placid, NY), rabbit anti-dimethyl-lysine 9 of histone H3 (07-212 Lot#22704, 1:50; Upstate Biotechnology), and a polyclonal VRN1 antibody raised in rat against His 10-tagged full-length VRN1 protein expressed in pET19b (CITATION). For details of detection antibodies, refer to Supporting Materials and Methods.
