!~ABS~! Fibrillins are lipid-binding proteins of plastids that are induced under abiotic stress conditions. In response to environmental stress, plants generate abscisic acid (ABA) as an endogenous signal. We show that ABA treatment and fibrillin accumulation enhance the tolerance of photosystem II toward light stress-triggered photoinhibition in Arabidopsis. ABA induces fibrillin accumulation, and the ABA response regulators ABI1 and ABI2 regulate fibrillin expression. The abundance of fibrillin transcripts was specifically reduced in the ABA-insensitive abi1 mutant but not in the abi2 mutant. However, leaves of abi2 revealed in comparison to WT and abi1 enhanced fibrillin levels, pointing to a posttranscriptional control mechanism. Protein interaction analysis identified the protein phosphatase ABI2 to target the preprotein of fibrillin. Interaction was abrogated either by deleting the signal peptide of prefibrillin or by the single amino acid exchange present in the phosphatase-deficient abi2 protein. Thus, ABI1 and ABI2 seem to control fibrillin expression that is involved in mediating ABA-induced photoprotection.
!~RES~! The key regulatory functions exerted by ABI1 and ABI2 in diverse ABA responses include regulation of gene expression, ion channel activity, and growth and development. Hence, both protein phosphatases are promising starting points for the elucidation of the integrative network of ABA signaling. We used the yeast-two-hybrid system to identify proteins interacting with ABI2. Fusion of ABI2 to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain did not reveal significant transcriptional autoactivation (FIG-REF A) in contrast to previous results with ABI1 in yeast (CITATION). Screening of Arabidopsis cDNA libraries for interactors of ABI2 in yeast resulted in the identification of six clones that showed lacZ activation and histidine autotrophy in dependence on the expression of the cDNA fusion protein. DNA sequence analysis revealed that two cDNA fusions were identical and encoded the fibrillin precursor protein (At4g04020), of which the last three carboxyl-terminal amino acid residues were missing. The preprotein encompasses 318 amino acid residues with a transit peptide of 55 amino acid residues (CITATION). Fibrillin shares high structural similarity with a second gene of Arabidopsis, fibrillin2 (At4g22240, 76% amino acid identity), and members of the protein family of other species such as the homologue of rapeseed (AAK57564, 79%), tobacco (T03635, 72%), tomato (CAA75658, 64%), potato (T07825, 64%), cucumber (T10179, 64%), and pepper (S56633, 61%). [[FIGURE]] To further characterize the specificity and structural requirements of the interaction, different variants of ABI1 and ABI2 were fused to the binding domain and were analyzed in yeast (FIG-REF A). Truncation of the amino-terminal domain of ABI2 (ΔNABI2, amino acids 95–423), or the single point mutation in abi2, which results in catalytic deficiency, abolished the interaction. In addition, all variants of ABI1 tested failed to show significant interaction with fibrillin. Furthermore, deletion of the transit peptide of prefibrillin abrogated the interaction with ABI2 indicating that the ABI2 fusion protein binds to the preprotein rather than to the mature fibrillin. The interaction was examined in vitro by both affinity chromatography and pulldown assays with purified preparations of ABI2 and prefibrillin. The fibrillin precursor protein was linked to the GST, and the resulting fusion protein (FIB-GST) was tested for binding to ABI2 tethered onto resin material by virtue of a carboxyl-terminal histidine tag. Subsequent chromatography of FIB-GST over the ABI2-coated resin resulted in efficient retention of the fusion protein but not of the GST control (FIG-REF B). Elution of ABI2 and other bound proteins yielded 83% of applied FIB-GST, whereas 24% of applied GST was recovered in that fraction. In the second experiment, the discrimination of ABI2 versus abi2 was analyzed in the interaction with prefibrillin by using a pulldown assay. ABI2- and abi2-coated beads were incubated with radiolabeled FIB-GST and GST, and subsequently the binding efficiency was determined. The majority of applied FIB-GST (78%) was associated with the immobilized ABI2, whereas only 17% of the preprotein was recovered with abi2-coated beads (FIG-REF C). The recovery of FIB-GST with abi2-coated beads is close to the values for the negative controls that consisted of the combinations GST with ABI2 or abi2 and yielded 10% and 14%, respectively. Taken together, the results strongly argue for a specific binding of ABI2 to the fibrillin preprotein in vitro and in vivo. Fibrillins are inducible proteins, and their expression is up-regulated by drought, cold, and oxidative and salt stress (CITATION–CITATION). These stress conditions involve ABA as a signal, and, hence, we examined whether ABA is able to regulate fibrillin gene expression. Exposure of Arabidopsis seedlings to ABA (30 μM) resulted in moderate enhancement of transcript levels within 3 h and with induction levels of ≈3-fold (FIG-REF A). Analysis of the dose–response dependence showed detectable up-regulation at 1 μM ABA reaching saturation at ≈10 μM ABA. Interestingly, analysis of ABA-insensitive abi1 and abi2 plants revealed a clear dependence of fibrillin transcript levels on abi1 but not abi2 (FIG-REF B). In the abi1 mutant background, the mRNA abundance of fibrillin was lowered by a factor of >10 in comparison with WT and the abi2 mutant. The basal transcript levels present in WT and abi2 plants was recovered in abi1 in the presence of ≈100 μM exogenous ABA. [[FIGURE]] The observed difference in fibrillin transcript levels could reflect ABA-stimulated promoter activity or enhanced mRNA stability. To discern the action of ABA, a fibrillin promoter-luciferase construct was transfected into Arabidopsis protoplasts for transient analysis. ABA-responsive reporter expression was enhanced 2- to 3-fold in the presence of 1–30 μM ABA (FIG-REF C). Exposure of transfected protoplasts to light stimulated the fibrillin promoter as well, and a combined treatment of light and ABA further activated luciferase expression (FIG-REF D). However, coexpression of dominant-acting abi1 efficiently blocked ABA-mediated reporter induction in agreement with an ABA-inducible and ABI1-dependent gene expression of fibrillin. The emerging interaction of the ABA response pathway with fibrillin expression prompted us to examine a possible link between fibrillin, light stress, and ABA. A photoprotective role of ABA has been postulated for chloroplasts under cold conditions (CITATION). Furthermore, fibrillin is known to accumulate during high-light conditions (CITATION), and fibrillin affects photosynthetic efficiency (CITATION). Taken together, the findings provided a hint that fibrillin and ABA might be involved in the plant response toward light stress. Therefore, we analyzed the effect of ABA and fibrillin on light-triggered photoinhibition of PSII by using plants with deregulated fibrillin accumulation. Arabidopsis plants of ecotype RLD with elevated or lowered levels of fibrillin were successfully generated by up- and down-regulation of fibrillin transcript abundance (FIG-REF). Two fibrillin-up-regulated lines (FU) and two fibrillin-down-regulated lines (FD) were randomly selected. Analysis revealed a 6-fold and >20-fold enhanced level of fibrillin transcripts in FU6 and FU7, respectively, whereas the level was lowered by a factor of 2 and 5 in the FD2 and FD7 compared with the control (FIG-REF A). ABA challenge (30 μM for 24 h) increased the fibrillin mRNA level in control plants but not in FD and FU lines. RT-PCR analysis discriminative for fibrillin and the homologous fibrillin2 revealed the down-regulation of only fibrillin transcripts (FIG-REF B). Immunoblot analysis with a fibrillin-specific antibody confirmed that altered transcript levels resulted in correspondingly altered protein levels (FIG-REF C). [[FIGURE]] The contribution of fibrillin and ABA toward photoprotection of PSII was examined by high-fluence irradiation of leaves in the absence or presence of ABA. Maximal photochemical efficiency of PSII (F v /F m ) was determined after light stress and subsequent recovery period in the dark to allow for reversible adaptation processes. A light stress-dependent reduction of F v /F m values is interpreted as photoinhibition of PSII (CITATION). Photoinhibition in leaves of Arabidopsis clearly depended on the duration of light stress and already was observed after 30 min of high-intensity illumination. A light stress of 1 h followed by the recovery period resulted in a drop of maximal photochemical PSII activity by 35% in leaves of RLD (FIG-REF A; see also Table 1, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). In the analysis, the transgenic lines with deregulated fibrillin expression differed considerably in the degree of photoinhibition. Leaves of fibrillin-overexpressing lines revealed enhanced phototolerance, whereas those of fibrillin-down-regulated plants were more photoinhibited than RLD. The rate of photoinhibition after 1 h of light stress corresponded to ≈0.15% min −1 and 0.11% min −1 for PSII in FU6 and FU7, respectively, whereas the values were 2- to 3-fold higher in leaves of FD2 and FD10 corresponding to 0.33% min −1 and 0.37% min −1 , respectively (P < 0.01). Leaves of RLD revealed an intermediate rate of 0.22% min −1 , which was still 2-fold higher than the inactivation rate of the FU7 line. [[FIGURE]] Preincubation of detached leaves with exogenous ABA (25 μM for 4 h) before high fluence exposure changed the light stress-triggered photoinhibition in WT plants. Phototolerance was now improved to a level indistinguishable from the previously more phototolerant FU lines (FIG-REF B and Table 1). Interestingly, the phototolerance of FU lines was not further improved by ABA. ABA did not change the decline of F v /F m values in FD leaves, which were light-stressed up to 1 h (P < 0.05); however, longer periods lead to a partial recovery. Fibrillin levels were induced 4-fold and 2-fold within 2 h of exposure to ABA and light, respectively (FIG-REF C). Fibrillin accumulation occurred also in the FD line, however, at a reduced rate (FIG-REF D). The results are consistent with an ABA-induced and fibrillin-dependent protection of the photosynthetic machinery. To gain insight into the role of ABI2 in that process, leaves of abi2 and ABI2 plants of the ecotype Landsberg (Ler) were analyzed for light-induced inactivation of photochemical PSII activity (FIG-REF A; see also Table 2, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). Light stress up to 2 h led to an almost linear decline of F v /F m values at an inactivation rate of 0.27% min −1 and 0.13% min −1 in control and abi2 leaves, respectively. The effective quantum yield after 2 h of light stress remained clearly higher in leaves of abi2 compared with WT (P < 0.01), corresponding to a higher extent of photochemical quenching and reduced nonphotochemical quenching (CITATION) in mutant leaves (see also Fig. 6, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). Whether the markedly improved phototolerance of the mutant may reflect differences in fibrillin accumulation was addressed by immunoanalysis. Protein extracts of leaves revealed 4.7-fold higher fibrillin levels in leaves of abi2 plants compared with Ler (FIG-REF B). Preincubation of Ler leaves in the presence of ABA (20 μM) or high concentration of mannitol (0.5 M) for 4 h increased fibrillin abundance by a factor of 2.2 and 3.7, respectively. A minor induction of fibrillin by osmotica and ABA also was observed in abi2, resulting in ≈1.3-fold and 1.7-fold elevated levels, respectively. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The different GAL4 DNA-binding fusions used in the protein interaction analysis, the in vitro binding assays, and primers used for PCR are further detailed in Supporting Methods, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site. The analyses were essentially carried out as reported for ABI1 (CITATION). The Arabidopsis cDNA library established in the pACT prey vector was provided by the DNA Stock Center at Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, (Columbus, OH). Arabidopsis cDNA inserts were amplified by PCR with the forward primer (5′-AGATCTGGAATTCGGATCCTC-3′ and the reverse primer 5′-TTAAGCTTAGATCTCTCGAGGCCCGAAG-3′) and cloned via the EcoRI and HindIII sites at their 5′ ends, respectively, for DNA sequence analysis (ABI310 Genetic Analyser; Applied Biosystems). For deletion of the transit peptide of prefibrillin (amino acids 1–53) a different forward primer (5′-CGGAATTCCATCCGAGCGACGGACATC-3′) was used for amplification of a truncated cDNA fragment to replace the 0.7-kb EcoRI-BglII fragment of prefibrillin cDNA in the pACT vector. Fibrillin transcript levels were analyzed by real-time PCR (Carl Roth, Karlsruhe, Germany). Transient gene expression was analyzed in protoplasts after 16 h of phenotypic expression in the dark and in the presence of ABA unless otherwise stated. Reporter constructs and conditions were as reported in ref. CITATION. Briefly, polyethylene glycol-mediated DNA transfections were performed by using plasmid DNA of 35S-GUS (20 μg) and fibrillin promoter-firefly luciferase (LUC) (20 μg) constructs per 5 × 10 5 Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts. In some cases, the 35S-abi1 construct (10 μg) was cotransfected. LUC activities were assayed in a luminometer (Berthold Technologies, Bad Wildbad, Germany) during a 90-s integration period of light emission. The fibrillin promoter-LUC construct was generated by fusing a BamHI-HindIII 1.7-kb fibrillin promoter fragment into the unique BamHI-HindIII sites of pBI221 (CITATION). The fibrillin promoter was amplified from BAC T24H24 (DNA Stock Center at Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center) with the forward primer 5′-TTAAAGCTTATGAAACATCGTCAGATC-3′ and the reverse primer 5′-AATGGATCCTGTGTTTGTTCTTCAGAGAAACC-3′. ABA-regulated expression was normalized for glucuronidase activity. The 35S-abi1 expression cassette was generated by replacing the XbaI-Ecl136II GUS gene fragment of pBI221 with the BamHI-Eco147I abi1 cDNA fragment (CITATION).  Arabidopsis plants, accession RLD, were transformed via Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58pGV3850 (CITATION). Transgenic FU and FD Arabidopsis lines were generated by transformation with pBI121-35S-fibrillin and pBI121-35S-asfibrillin, which were constructed by replacing the GUS gene of pBI121 (CITATION) with the blunted EcoRI-HindIII fibrillin cDNA fragment in sense and antisense orientation into the blunted SmaI-Ecl136II sites of the vector. For physiological characterization, Arabidopsis plants were grown in pots on perlite/soil mixture at 23°C under long-day conditions with 16-h light (250 μmol·m −2 ·s −1 ). Detached rosette leaves from 4-week-old plants, fully developed and of comparable size, were floated on half-strength liquid MS medium with adaxial sides facing upward. The temperature was controlled at 23°C (Haake, Karlsruhe, Germany). Incubation was carried out in the presence or absence of ABA, or 0.5 M mannitol at a light intensity of 70 μmol·m −2 ·s −1 for 4 h before exposure to high-light conditions (1,400 μmol·m −2 ·s −1 ). Light was passed through an infrared-absorbing layer of water. After a variable period of light stress, leaves were kept in darkness (45 min), and maximal photochemical activity of PSII (F v /F m ) was measured by using a PAM-2000 (Heinz Walz, Effeltrich, Germany) under atmospheric conditions (CITATION). A stress-dependent reduction of F v /F m values was interpreted as photoinhibition of PSII (CITATION, CITATION). For statistical analysis, Student’s t test was used. Proteins of leaf extracts for immunochemical analysis were obtained and analyzed as described in ref. CITATION. Protein concentration was determined in extracts to assure loading of equal amounts of protein. Leaves WT, mutant, and transgenic plants were exposed to 2 h of high light conditions before fibrillin analysis unless otherwise indicated. Polyclonal antibodies directed against pepper fibrillin were used (CITATION), and cross reactivity of the antibody to Brassicaceae (CITATION) was confirmed by testing the specific recognition of fibrillins obtained either from pepper fruits and by heterologous expression of Arabidopsis prefibrillin in Escherichia coli. Bound antibody was detected with a secondary anti-rabbit antibody conjugated to horseradish peroxidase by using SuperSignal West Femto (Pierce) as a substrate. Peroxidase activity was measured by light emission recorded by an intensified charge-coupled device camera (ORCAII ERG; Hamamatsu Photonics, Hamamatsu City, Japan) equipped with a Schneider Xenon 0.95/25 objective (Kreuznach, Germany) in a dark box.
