!~ABS~! The vacuole is the main cellular storage pool, where sucrose (Suc) accumulates to high concentrations. While a limited number of vacuolar membrane proteins, such as V-type H+-ATPases and H+-pyrophosphatases, are well characterized, the majority of vacuolar transporters are still unidentified, among them the transporter(s) responsible for vacuolar Suc uptake and release. In search of novel tonoplast transporters, we used a proteomic approach, analyzing the tonoplast fraction of highly purified mesophyll vacuoles of the crop plant barley (Hordeum vulgare). We identified 101 proteins, including 88 vacuolar and putative vacuolar proteins. The Suc transporter (SUT) HvSUT2 was discovered among the 40 vacuolar proteins, which were previously not reported in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) vacuolar proteomic studies. To confirm the tonoplast localization of this Suc transporter, we constructed and expressed green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion proteins with HvSUT2 and its closest Arabidopsis homolog, AtSUT4. Transient expression of HvSUT2-GFP and AtSUT4-GFP in Arabidopsis leaves and onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells resulted in green fluorescence at the tonoplast, indicating that these Suc transporters are indeed located at the vacuolar membrane. Using a microcapillary, we selected mesophyll protoplasts from a leaf protoplast preparation and demonstrated unequivocally that, in contrast to the companion cell-specific AtSUC2, HvSUT2 and AtSUT4 are expressed in mesophyll protoplasts, suggesting that HvSUT2 and AtSUT4 are involved in transport and vacuolar storage of photosynthetically derived Suc.
!~RES~! To understand the function of the vacuole and the interactions between the vacuole and the metabolic pathways occurring in the cytoplasm, it is important to identify vacuolar transporters that are involved in the export of solutes from the cytosol and the reimport in case of metabolically relevant compounds, such as sugars, organic acids, nitrate, or phosphate. To date, a range of transporters (CITATION; CITATION) have been identified, but, as can be deduced from vacuolar localization and transport studies, a large number remain uncharacterized. To identify novel tonoplast proteins, we isolated highly purified vacuolar membranes from barley mesophyll cells. Barley is an important crop plant closely related to wheat and rice (Oryza sativa). It contains only one type of mesophyll cells, whereas Arabidopsis has two types of mesophyll cells, spongy and palisade cells. We could overcome the limiting factor of tonoplast proteomic projects, the requirement of highly purified vacuolar membranes in sufficient amounts, by improving a previously described method (CITATION) for the isolation of vacuoles from barley leaves. Intact vacuoles were stained with neutral red and the purity was visually checked by bright-field microscopy. No obvious chloroplast or protoplast contaminations were observed (Fig. 1A ). As described by CITATION, the purity of the vacuole preparations was analyzed by the measurement of marker enzymes found in cytoplasm, mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and chloroplast (Table I ). Contamination with these organelles was less than 1%, except for the ER (8%). [[FIGURE]] Activities of marker enzymes in the vacuolar preparations of barley mesophyll protoplasts Marker enzyme activities for mitochondria (NAD-malic dehydrogenase), chloroplasts (NADP-gyceraldehydphosphate dehydrogenase, Glc-phosphate isomerase), ER (NADPH-cytochrome-c-reductase), and cytosol (Glc-phosphate isomerase, NAD-malic dehydrogenase) were measured in protoplast and vacuolar fractions. The percentage of contamination was calculated assuming an exclusive localization of α-Mannosidase in the vacuole (CITATION). The purity of the tonoplast fractions was further confirmed by western blots. The mitochondrial marker alternative oxidase (AOX), the α-subunit of the chloroplastic ATPase (ATP-α), the endoplasmic marker luminal binding protein (BiP), and the plasma membrane intrinsic protein (PIP) were only detectable in the total membrane protein fraction of protoplasts and not in the tonoplast fraction (Fig. 1B), providing a reliable indicator of the purity of the extraction. The γ-tonoplast intrinsic protein (TIP) was highly concentrated in the tonoplast fraction (Fig. 1B). An untreated vacuolar membrane fraction as well as vacuolar membrane fractions washed with either 0.5 m NaOH or 0.3 m KI were analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). Alkaline (NaOH) and saline (KI) treatment reduced the proportion of bound peripheral proteins from 53% in the untreated fraction to 38% in the KI-treated fraction and 34% in the NaOH-treated fraction. Cumulatively, we identified 101 proteins, 49 proteins with at least one transmembrane domain and 52 proteins with no transmembrane domain (Tables II–IV ⇑). Characterization of the identified vacuolar proteins Accession numbers are from NCBI (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/). Fractions are indicated by “x” in which each identified protein was present. The number of transmembrane domains (TMDs) is according to the prediction by SOSUI (http://sosui.proteome.bio.tuat.ac.jp/sosuiframe0.html). MW, Predicted Mr; % Cov., sequence coverage in percent; % Seq., sequence similarity of the closest Arabidopsis homologs; Ref., Arabidopsis homolog(s) found by CITATION; a), CITATION; b), CITATION; c), and CITATION; d). Known nonvacuolar membrane proteins Accession numbers are from NCBI. The number of transmembrane domains (TMDs) is according to the prediction by SOSUI. % Seq., Sequence similarity of the closest Arabidopsis homologs; Ref., Arabidopsis homolog(s) found by CITATION; a), CITATION; b), CITATION; c), and CITATION; d). Soluble known nonvacuolar proteins Accession numbers are from NCBI. Fractions are indicated by “x” in which each identified protein was present. % Seq., Sequence similarity of the closest Arabidopsis homologs; Ref., indicates Arabidopsis homolog(s) found by CITATION; a), CITATION; b), CITATION; c), and CITATION; d). All eight subunits of the V1 sector (A–H) and three subunits of the V0 sector (a, c, and d) of the well-characterized V-type H+-ATPase were detected, as well as two isoforms of the V-type H+-pyrophosphatase, indicating the high coverage of vacuolar membrane proteins. Only one aquaporin, a γ-TIP-like protein, was identified. We additionally identified the vacuolar membrane proteins HvTAP2 (CITATION) and TaMRP1 (CITATION), homologs of the TCP1 (CITATION), the sodium/proton antiporter NHX (CITATION), and the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter MRP2 (CITATION), which have been previously shown to reside in the tonoplast (Table II). We identified 11 of 12 subunits of the V-type H+-ATPase (CITATION). In comparison with published Arabidopsis vacuolar proteomic projects, only CITATION and CITATION obtained such a complete set of subunits for the V-type H+-ATPase. Despite this, our proteomic analysis resulted in a limited number of known vacuolar proteins. This discrepancy may be explained by the absence of some known vacuolar transporters in barley mesophyll cells, or barley proteins are not similar enough to permit an unequivocal attribution of peptides during the database searches. In our investigation of the tonoplast, we found 52 proteins with no transmembrane domain. Most of these putative membrane-associated proteins are involved in stress response or in membrane fusion and remodeling (Table II). We identified a few known nonvacuolar proteins, including four membrane proteins (Table III) and nine soluble proteins (Table IV). Soluble proteins can associate with membranes, which might explain their detection in the tonoplast preparation. The view that these proteins were peripherally associated with the membrane is supported by the fact that the proportion of soluble known nonvacuolar proteins was the highest in the nontreated vacuolar membrane fraction (8.8%). However, since the vacuole is a lytic organelle, a proportion of these apparent contaminants may be a result of the ongoing degradation processes. Interestingly, only one plasma membrane protein, aquaporin 1, was detected, demonstrating the high purity of our preparations. Most of the known nonvacuolar proteins (61.5%) were previously reported in one of the Arabidopsis vacuolar proteomic studies (Tables III and IV). Besides well-known vacuolar membrane proteins, a large number of annotated membrane proteins with an unknown subcellular localization were identified, including several sugar transporters (gi|7024413, gi|26986186, gi|49388943, gi|51854311, and gi|31433313) and ABC proteins (gi|55773917, gi|34912536, and gi|34915038), an amino acid transporter (gi|47497044), a peptide transporter (gi|15076661), an organic anion transporter (gi|34898286), a putative calcium translocating P-type ATPase (gi|14275750), and a putative chloride channel (gi|34015349) of the CLC family (CITATION). Moreover, there were also nine proteins with at least one transmembrane helix for which a function has yet not been elucidated (Table II). The closest Arabidopsis homolog of the identified peptide transporter (gi|15076661) is AtPTR2-B (At2g02040), which transports dipeptides and tripeptides and is constitutively expressed in all plant organs (CITATION). AtPTR2-B was also found by CITATION and CITATION during their Arabidopsis vacuolar proteome analysis. AtPTR1, another peptide transporter of the gene family, has been localized in the plasma membrane (CITATION). These results indicate that in a multigene family, different members may not be localized at the same membrane. This has also been demonstrated in studies on the subfamily of the MRP-type ABC transporters (CITATION; CITATION). One of the identified sugar transporters (gi|51854311) is a close homolog of a hexose transporter (U43629) in sugar beet (Beta vulgaris), which has previously been postulated to catalyze facilitated diffusion of Glc across the vacuolar membrane of sugar beet (CITATION). Facilitated diffusion of Glc has also been reported to occur in barley vacuoles (CITATION). Therefore, it is highly likely that this hexose transporter is indeed localized at the vacuolar membrane. Interestingly, an additional sugar transporter identified in our proteomic approach was HvSUT2. HvSUT2 was previously expressed in yeast and shown to catalyze Suc uptake in intact yeast cells (CITATION). The facilitated diffusion of Suc across the vacuolar membrane of barley has already been demonstrated in earlier studies (CITATION). Although Suc accumulation is one of the key functions of mesophyll vacuoles, the vacuolar transporters responsible for Suc uptake and release are as yet unidentified. The vacuole possesses specialized functions in different cell types and in different plant species. For example, in Arabidopsis, vacuoles accumulate mainly monosaccharides, whereas in barley, fructans may be synthesized and stored in vacuoles. To identify proteins that are particular for the vacuolar function in barley, we compared the vacuolar proteins found in barley to proteins identified in the four Arabidopsis vacuolar proteomic approaches (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We searched the 88 identified vacuolar proteins for the closest homologs in the Arabidopsis genome. If a similarity of 30% is used as a cutoff, six proteins, including the putative gag-pol precursor and five hypothetical proteins, have no homolog in Arabidopsis (Table II). Although 34 to 402 vacuolar proteins were detected in the four Arabidopsis proteomic studies, only 48 (54.5%) identified barley vacuolar proteins have also been identified in at least one of the Arabidopsis studies (Table II; Fig. 2 ). The highest overlap was found with CITATION; 48 proteins) and CITATION; 29 proteins). However, 40 proteins (45.5%) of 88 detected barley vacuolar proteins were not reported in the Arabidopsis vacuolar proteomic studies, suggesting a higher relative abundance of these proteins in barley leaf mesophyll vacuoles compared to Arabidopsis leaf mesophyll and cell culture vacuoles. Eighteen (43%) of these 40 proteins are membrane proteins, including three ABC transporters (gi|55773917, gi|34912536, and gi|34898286), one amino acid transporter (gi|47497044), one putative CLC-type chloride channel (gi|34015349), six membrane proteins with an unknown function (gi|50252990, gi|50726593, gi|51536186, gi|50948653, gi|50929895, and gi|50399936), and the Suc transporter HvSUT2 (gi|7024413). The detection of HvSUT2 in the vacuolar membrane fraction indicates a high expression of this Suc transporter in barley mesophyll cells. This can be explained by the fact that barley mesophyll cells accumulate large amounts of Suc during the day (CITATION) and that fructan synthesis in barley mesophyll vacuoles requires Suc. [[FIGURE]] The small number of nonvacuolar proteins that we detected in comparison to the published proteomic approaches using Arabidopsis vacuoles reveals that the purity of our barley tonoplast fractions is clearly higher. However, since the protein content of the vacuolar membrane constitutes less than 1% of the total cellular protein, small contaminations in the range of 2% to 4% have a strong impact on the detected proteins. It should also be taken into account that the plasma membrane contains about double the amount of protein compared to the vacuolar membrane. Furthermore, in mesophyll cells, the surface area of chloroplastic membranes by far exceeds that of the vacuole. Consequently, a contamination of 2% with chloroplasts would result in about 20% plastid proteins in the vacuolar fraction. GFP localization of the newly identified membrane proteins is therefore a prerequisite to confirm their putative localization obtained with a proteomic approach. This effort has not been undertaken in the vacuolar proteomic reports published so far. Among the potentially novel vacuolar transporters, we were particularly interested in HvSUT2, since the vacuolar Suc transporter, which plays a central role in plant metabolism, still awaits identification. As aforementioned, HvSUT2 exhibited Suc transport activity over the plasma membrane when expressed in yeast (CITATION). However, heterologous expression in yeast does not necessarily provide information about the intracellular localization of the protein in planta. The high purity of our vacuole preparation encouraged us to test whether HvSUT2 and its Arabidopsis counterpart, AtSUT4, are vacuolar Suc transporters, despite the fact that the closest homologs of HvSUT2 found in tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum; LeSUT4) and potato (Solanum tuberosum; StSUT4) have been immunolocalized in the plasma membrane of sieve elements (CITATION). To confirm the tonoplast localization of HvSUT2 and AtSUT4, GFP fusion proteins were transiently expressed in Arabidopsis leaves and onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells. For both transporters, fluorescence was detected at the vacuolar membrane of Arabidopsis and onion epidermal cells (Fig. 3, A–J). As a control, we cloned AtSUC2, a well-known plasma membrane Suc transporter of the companion cells (CITATION), as a GFP fusion protein. Based on fluorescence intensity, expression of AtSUC2-GFP was similar to AtSUT4-GFP and HvSUT2-GFP. However, unlike AtSUT4 and HvSUT2, AtSUC2 localizes to the plasma membrane (Fig. 3, K and L). In contrast to this localization study, LeSUT4 and StSUT4, the closest homologs of HvSUT2 and AtSUT4, were immunolocalized in the plasma membrane of enucleate sieve elements, a cell type that does not contain vacuoles. Thus far, SUT4 of Arabidopsis has not been localized at the subcellular level. However, promoter-β-glucuronidase studies showed high expression of AtSUT4 in companion cells (CITATION). High expression in phloem companion cells does not exclude vacuolar localization since these cells contain many small vacuoles. These vacuoles may play a role in temporary storage of Suc that can be used at night as an energy reserve in these energy-demanding cells. The results of our localization study pose the question of whether orthologs might be differently localized or whether the unusual cell structure of sieve elements, cells without nuclei, vacuoles, ribosomes, and Golgi, might entail another subcellular localization of the same protein. CITATION detected in their Arabidopsis tonoplast proteomic analysis the Suc transporter AtSUC1, which is strongly expressed in Arabidopsis flowers (CITATION). AtSUC1 was also identified in the plasma membrane proteomic approach of CITATION. To investigate if AtSUC1 is localized like AtSUT4 at the vacuolar membrane, we expressed AtSUC1-GFP in Arabidopsis leaves and onion epidermal cells. As shown in Figure 4 , AtSUC1 is targeted to the plasma membrane as AtSUC2. This observation stresses on the necessity to confirm the localization of novel candidates obtained in proteomic approaches by GFP-fusion proteins. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] AtSUT4 promoter-β-glucuronidase fusion plants exhibited a strong expression in companion cells (CITATION). To investigate whether AtSUT4 is expressed exclusively in companion cells or if transcripts are also present in mesophyll cells, where photosynthetic Suc is stored inside the vacuoles, we performed a reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis with isolated leaf mesophyll protoplasts. Thirty to 40 mesophyll protoplasts of source leaves were discriminated from smaller companion cell protoplasts, chloroplast-free sieve element protoplasts, and large epidermal protoplasts by bright-field microscopy and collected in a microcapillary. RT-PCR was conducted with primers specific for the amplification of HvSUT2 and AtSUT4. AtSUC2 was used as a marker gene for companion cell contaminations. As illustrated in Figure 5 , only AtSUT4 transcripts were detected in the mesophyll protoplast preparation. While in a typical leaf protoplast mixture, both AtSUC2 and AtSUT4 transcripts were present. HvSUT2 transcripts were detected in mesophyll cells (Fig. 5). These results prove that HvSUT2 and AtSUT4 are vacuolar Suc transporters of leaf mesophyll cells. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Barley (Hordeum vulgare) var. Baraka was grown in soil in a controlled environment chamber (16 h light/8 h dark, 300 μE m−2 s−1, 22°C, 60% relative humidity), and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Columbia was cultivated in soil in a controlled environment chamber (8 h light/16 h dark, 150 μE m−2 s−1, 18°C, 60% relative humidity). Barley mesophyll vacuoles were isolated from 8-d-old plants according to CITATION, omitting bovine serum albumin in the isolation medium. Tonoplast vesicles were isolated by sonication of vacuoles and subsequent ultracentrifugation for 1 h at 100,000g. The supernatant was removed and the tonoplast fraction was resuspended in 20 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.2, at a concentration of approximately 200 μg protein/mL. The vacuolar membranes were either analyzed directly or treated by washing with 0.3 m KI or 0.5 m NaOH. Proteins were quantified according to CITATION using the Bio-Rad protein assay (Reinach). Tonoplast proteins were separated using SDS-PAGE (CITATION) with 10% acrylamide gels. The SDS gels were cut into 35 sections, and gel slices were immediately subjected to in-gel tryptic digestion (CITATION). Tryptic peptides were further fractionated by reverse-phase chromatography coupled online to an LCQ Deca XP ion trap mass spectrometer (Thermo Finnigan). The peptides were analyzed by MS full scan and MS/MS scans of the three most intense parent ions. MS/MS data sets were interpreted according to the standards of CITATION. The SEQUEST software (Thermo Finnigan) was used to search the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) protein database of the Liliopsida (GI4447) including 139,384 proteins. dta files were created by the SEQUEST software for every MS/MS scan with a total ion count of at least 5 × 104, minimal peak count of 35, and a precursor ion mass in the range of 300 to 2,000 mass-to-charge ratio. Data were searched against the database restricted to tryptic peptides without modifications (except for carboxyamidomethylated Cys 57.0513 and oxidized Met 15.9994), allowing a parent mass error tolerance of 2 D and daughter ion error tolerance of 0.8 D. All SEQUEST data were analyzed by Peptide and Protein-Prophet (CITATION). Protein-Prophet is based on a statistical model that allows one to assess the reliability of protein identifications on the basis of MS/MS data. The Protein-Prophet score gives a probability estimate for the protein identification. We accepted scores above 0.9; at this cutoff, the rate of false positive protein identifications is less than 10% (Table II). Mostly, we identified the same protein from different biochemical fractions, further compounding the reliability of the identification (Table II). For the identification of Arabidopsis homologs, we used the BLAST search of the Munich Information Center for Protein Sequences (MIPS) database (http://mips.gsf.de/proj/thal/db/search/search_frame.html). In Tables II, III, and IV, the closest Arabidopsis homologs are listed as well as the second and third homologs if the similarity differed not more than 10% from the closest homolog. Western blotting was carried out using antibodies for γ-TIP (CITATION), ATP-α, luminal BiP (member of the heat shock family), AOX (CITATION), and PIP (CITATION). Secondary antibodies (anti-rabbit or anti-chicken, coupled to alkaline phosphatase [AP] or horse radish peroxidase [HRP]; Promega) were diluted 1:3,000 (AP) or 1:25,000 (HRP) in TBST (0.2 m Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 0.5 m NaCl, 0.05% Tween 20). AP detection mixture was prepared by adding 6.6 μL of nitroblue tetrazolium (Promega) and 3.3 μL of 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate (Promega) to 1 mL of AP buffer (0.1 m Tris-HCl, pH 9.5, 0.5 m MgCl2). The activity of HRP was detected using a Chemiluminescence Blotting Substrate kit (SuperSignal Chemiluminescent Working Solution; Pierce) according to manufacturer's instructions. To localize HvSUT2 (gi|7024412), AtSUC1 (At1g71880), and AtSUC2 (At1g22710), the respective cDNAs were cloned in frame to the N terminus of GFP into the vector pGFP2 (CITATION). The AtSUT4-GFP fusion construct was cloned into the expression vector pART7 (CITATION). GFP fusion constructs were transiently expressed in onion (Allium cepa) and Arabidopsis epidermal cells using a Helium Biolistic Particle Delivery system (Bio-Rad). Cell walls and nuclei of Arabidopsis epidermal cells were stained with 1 mm propidium iodide. Fluorescent cells were imaged by confocal microscopy (Leica). The epidermis of Arabidopsis rosette leaves was rubbed off with glass paper P 80. Leaves were transferred into digestion buffer, pH 5.6 (0.5 m sorbitol; 1 mm CaCl2; 10 mm MES) containing 0.75% cellulase YC (w/v) and 0.03% pectolyase Y23 (w/v) (both from Kyowa Chemical Products) and incubated for 1.5 h at 30°C. After digestion, protoplasts were recovered by centrifugation (2,000g for 5 min) and purified by a Percoll gradient. The protoplasts were mixed 3:1 (v/v) with 100% Percoll, pH 6 (0.5 m sorbitol; 1 mm CaCl2; 20 mm MES), overlaid with 25% Percoll, pH 6, and betaine buffer, pH 6 (0.4 m betaine; 30 mm KCl; 20 mm HEPES) followed by centrifugation at 1,500g for 5 min. Protoplasts from the interface between 25% Percoll, pH 6, and betaine buffer were recovered. The leaf protoplast suspension was visualized by bright-field microscopy to distinguish between mesophyll protoplasts and other protoplasts. Thirty to 40 mesophyll protoplasts were drawn up into a microcapillary with a tip opening of approximately 100 μm. Total RNA was extracted from the protoplasts using the PicoPure RNA isolation kit (Arcturus). First-strand cDNA was prepared with the DNA-free total RNA using the First-Strand cDNA Synthesis kit (Amersham Biosciences). The following primers were used for RT-PCR: AtSUT4(for) 5′ gtc atc cca cag gta att gtg tct gtt ggc 3′, AtSUT4(rev) 5′ gcg gcc gct cat ggg aga ggg atg gg 3′, AtSUC2(for) 5′ cat tgt cgt ccc tca gat ggt aat atc tg 3′, AtSUC2(rev) 5′ ctc gag atg aaa tcc cat agt agc ttt gaa g 3′, Actin(for) 5′ gga aca gtg tga ctc aca cca tc 3′, Actin(rev) 5′ aag ctg ttc ttt ccc tct acg c 3′, HvSUT2(for) 5′ cac aat ctt agg agc acc tct gtc gat cac g 3′, and HvSUT2(rev) 5′ cat ggg tac ctc gtt ggg tgg ttt tct tct tc 3′.
