!~ABS~! Mutations in genes encoding components of the heterotrimeric G-protein complex were previously shown to confer altered sensitivity to increased levels of d-glucose. This suggests that G-protein coupling may be a novel sugar-signaling mechanism in Arabidopsis thaliana. THYLAKOID FORMATION1 (THF1) is here demonstrated in vivo as a Gα interaction partner that functions downstream of the plasma membrane–delimited heterotrimeric G-protein (GPA1) in a d-glucose signaling pathway. THF1 is a plastid protein localized to both the outer plastid membrane and the stroma. Contact between root plastidic THF1 and GPA1 at the plasma membrane occurs at sites where the plastid membrane abuts the plasma membrane, as demonstrated by Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET). A probable role for THF1 in sugar signaling is demonstrated by both biochemical and genetic evidence. Root growth in the thf1-1 null mutant is hypersensitive to exogenous d-glucose, and THF1-overexpressing roots are resistant to inhibition of growth rate by high d-glucose. Additionally, THF1 levels are rapidly degraded by d-glucose but not l-glucose. The interaction between THF1 and GPA1 has been confirmed by in vitro and in vivo coimmunoprecipitation, FRET analysis, and genetic epistasis and provides evidence of a sugar-signaling mechanism between plastids and the plasma membrane.
!~RES~! Previously, we and others have shown that gpa1 null seedlings were more sensitive to increased levels of d-glucose, but not mannitol, during germination (CITATION; CITATION) and that gpa1 null seedlings were hypersensitive to d-glucose (CITATION) in a green-seedling assay (CITATION). As the highest levels of GPA1 expression are observed in roots, we investigated the effects of increased d-glucose during root development. Seeds of wild-type (Columbia) and gpa1-4 plants were germinated on medium containing either control (1%) or increased (6%) d-glucose or 6% mannitol as an osmotic control. The growth rate of the primary roots of these seedlings was assayed daily for 6 d, starting 48 h after the plates were placed in the light. Consistent with previous findings using the green-seedling and germination assays (CITATION; CITATION), plants lacking GPA1 were more sensitive to d-glucose. The growth rate of the primary root was reduced in gpa1-4 seedlings exposed to 6% d-glucose (Figure 1A , middle panel) in the days after germination but was not statistically different from the wild-type growth rate on the control level of 1% d-glucose. The retardation in root growth was relieved upon return to 1% d-glucose–containing plates (data not shown). Importantly, both wild-type and gpa1-4 seedlings were observed to be similarly sensitive to the 6% mannitol levels, confirming that the growth-arrest phenotype observed on increased d-glucose was not attributable to an osmotic effect. [[FIGURE]] We confirmed a role for GPA1 in sugar signaling through an analysis of plants overexpressing a constitutively active form of GPA1 [GPA1(Q222L)]. Seedlings overexpressing GPA1(Q222L) have previously been shown to have other growth phenotypes, similar to rgs1-2 null seedlings (CITATION). Root growth in seedlings from two lines overexpressing GPA1(Q222L) was compared with that in wild-type Wassilewskija (Ws). As shown in Figure 1B, the two GPA1(Q222L) transgenic lines (D and E) exhibited greater resistance to high d-glucose compared with wild-type Ws, indicating a role for the GTP-bound form of Gα (GPA1GTP) in overcoming increased d-glucose levels. As shown in Figure 1B, overexpression of a constitutively active form of GPA1 conferred tolerance to increased levels of d-glucose. This demonstrates a role for G-protein–coupled signaling, and more specifically, GPA1GTP, in mediating Arabidopsis responses to high d-glucose. Therefore, to identify potential downstream components of this pathway, we sought effectors that interact with GPA1(Q222L) as bait in a yeast two-hybrid screen (Figure 2 ). [[FIGURE]] We screened three yeast cDNA libraries constructed from different Arabidopsis tissues using both low- and high-copy versions of the bait and focused on a candidate clone that was subsequently confirmed to encode an interactor in the yeast two-hybrid configuration by recloning and retesting and by coimmunoprecipitation experiments (Figures 2A, 2B, and 2D). We demonstrated that the full-length protein interacts with GPA1 in the presence of both GDP and GTPγS. The prey encodes the 162–amino acid C-terminal sequence of a 300–amino acid protein (At2g20890), which we previously designated THF1 (CITATION). As we reported previously (CITATION), THF1 does not share significant sequence with any known protein, but similar proteins can be found in a number of other species, with potato (Solanum tuberosum) and rice (Oryza sativa) proteins shown for comparison (Figure 2C). Additional analyses predicted the three-dimensional folding structure to be weakly supported as an ENTH fold, as found in the human inositol triphosphate binding, clathrin assembly protein (clathrin assembly lymphoid myeloid leukemia, Q13492). However, no binding to a lipid profile (PIP Stips P-6001; Echelon Bioscience) was observed. Nonetheless, the predicted analogy is consistent with the observed altered membrane trafficking in our previous study (CITATION). As shown in Figure 2C, inspection revealed that THF1 has four stretches of low similarity to M repeats such as M6_STRPY from Streptococcus pyogenes (CITATION), a motif found within protein interaction interfaces (bars). The interaction region between THF1 and GPA1, which lies within the C-terminal 162 amino acids of THF1, encompasses at least three of the four putative M repeats. The conserved Leu residues highlighted in Figure 2C (dots) are suggested to be important for coiled-coil secondary structure (CITATION). We tested the interaction between GPA1 and full-length THF1 by an in vitro coprecipitation assay (Figure 2B). For this purpose, 6xHis-GPA1 and GST-THF1 were expressed and purified from Escherichia coli using nickel and glutathione S-transferase (GST) columns, respectively. To determine whether THF1 interacts preferentially with the GTP-bound form of GPA1, GPA1 was loaded with GDP or GTPγS before adding GST-THF1 to the binding assay buffer. We detected a qualitatively similar binding ability of THF1 to either the GDP- or GTP-bound form of GPA1 (Figure 2B), whereas GST alone was not able to coprecipitate GPA1. To test whether GPA1 interacts with THF1 in vivo, we transiently expressed a full-length C-myc–tagged THF1 clone in Arabidopsis suspension cells (Figure 2D). Total protein was extracted with buffer containing either GDP or GTPγS and then immunoprecipitated with anti-GPA1 serum. The GPA1 preimmune serum was unable to coprecipitate THF1. Samples were subjected to immunoblotting using anti-GPA1 or anti-myc serum. As shown in Figure 2D, GPA1 and THF1-myc interacted equally well both in vitro and in vivo in the presence of either GDP or GTPγS. Our initial report on THF1 described how its global gene expression could be regulated by light (CITATION). Here, we show that it is expressed ubiquitously in all organs (Figure 3A ), with the highest levels of THF1 promoter:uidA (GUS) expression observed in roots of both light-grown (Figure 3B) and dark-grown (Figure 3C) seedlings, showing that the gene is well expressed in roots regardless of light conditions. The highest THF1 promoter:uidA expression was observed in the root apical meristems (Figure 3D), similar to that observed for both GPA1 and RGS1 (CITATION; CITATION). Immunoblot analysis of THF1 protein levels showed that the highest levels of THF1 protein were in hypocotyls (Figure 3A). The comparison between the immunoblot and GUS data suggests either a rapid turnover of THF1 protein or some form of posttranslational regulation in the root. [[FIGURE]] Confocal imaging of a 35S-driven THF1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein in 5-d-old seedlings (Figures 3E to 3G) confirmed the earlier observation that THF1 is a plastid protein (CITATION) but further demonstrated that THF1-GFP is present in root plastid stromules. Stromules are tubular extensions of plastids, enclosed by both the inner and outer plastid envelope (CITATION), which are thought to increase the surface area of plastid membranes for an as yet undetermined function. It is important to note that the THF1-GFP–labeled stromules were most easily visualized in root tissues (Figures 3E and 3G), whereas none were found in leaf tissues. Time-lapse imaging of THF1-GFP in root epidermal cells and root hairs (Figure 3F; see Supplemental Movie 1 online) revealed the plastid compartments and stromules to be highly dynamic within cells, suggesting that the plastids may use their stromule extensions to interact and anchor to the plasma membrane (Figures 3E and 3G, red arrows). Tethering is a previously reported feature of stromules (CITATION) that may allow plastids to remain in proximity to cellular structures against the currents of cytoplasmic streaming (CITATION; CITATION). The data presented above describe a root plastidic interaction partner to a plasma membrane–delimited G-protein. Although the highly vacuolated nature of root cells means that plastids and other organelles are frequently pressed up against the plasma membrane, the concept that a specific protein–protein interaction was occurring prompted us to look in more detail at the physical possibility of this unusual situation. Kyte–Doolittle hydropathy analysis of full-length THF1 using the TOPRED algorithm (CITATION; CITATION) set to identify prokaryotic/plastidic proteins strongly predicts the presence of at least one and possibly two membrane-spanning domains, as shown by hydrophobicity values exceeding the upper (UC) and lower (LC) cutoff values (Figure 4A ). This prediction is in contrast with that extracted from the Cornell Plastid Proteome Database (CITATION), which suggests that THF1 does not posses membrane-spanning domains. However, this discrepancy is attributable to the different prediction algorithms used to determine the presence of eukaryotic membrane-spanning domains. Further analysis of these putative transmembrane domains revealed that both their presence and sequence are highly conserved among the highly divergent taxa that contain orthologs to THF1, including rice and potato (Figure 2C). We previously showed that THF1 contains a cleaved transit peptide that facilitates entry into the plastid (CITATION), leading us to propose two possible topology models for the remaining 239 amino acids of the mature protein within the outer plastid membrane (Figure 4B). [[FIGURE]] Both models allow for the THF1–GPA1 interaction on the external face of the plastid, consistent with our identification of the THF1-interaction region within the C-terminal 162 amino acids of the mature THF1 protein (denoted the GPA1 interaction region in Figure 4A). To confirm this in silico analysis, immunoblot analysis of fractionated plastids was performed. Intriguingly, as shown in Figure 4C, THF1 is enriched in both the outer membrane and stromal fractions. Although this is consistent with an outer membrane–spanning prediction for THF1 (Figure 4A), we applied our model for the THF1–GPA1 interaction only to the pool of THF1 that spans the outer membrane, as opposed to the stromal pool. The fact that a second pool of THF1 is found in the stromal fraction may suggest either multiple functions for THF1 in plastids or some requirement for the trafficking of THF1. Dual localization of THF1 in the fractionation data would also be consistent with a single localization in different plastid types. Although there are no known plastid-specific differences in the protein import machinery, this possibility should not be ruled out. Nonetheless, both modeling and biochemical fractionation of plastid membranes are consistent with our hypothesis of an outer membrane localization for THF1 on root plastids. Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) analysis between 35S-driven GPA1-CFP (for cyan fluorescent protein) and THF1-YFP (for yellow fluorescent protein) constructs in the gpa1-4 thf1-1 background provided spatial resolution of the GPA1–THF1 interaction in root epidermal cells. Two-filter channel FRET analysis confirmed our earlier observations that THF1 is plastidic (Figure 5A ) and GPA1 is localized to the plasma membrane (Figure 5B). We observed that the ratio of YFP to CFP was high where a plastid was adjacent to the plasma membrane. The observed FRET signal, denoted nF/I (Figure 5), corresponds to the observed YFP-CFP ratio and represents an algorithmic output for two-filter channel FRET based on the equations of CITATION. Simply put, it is a mathematical representation of the YFP:CFP ratio, normalized to the donor intensity. FRET requires that the donor and receiver reside within 10 to 100 Å, strongly suggesting a physical interaction between GPA1 and THF1. FRET was never observed where root plastids did not abut the plasma membrane, consistent with our demonstration that a direct physical interaction between GPA1 and THF1 occurs in vivo. Additionally, the detection of FRET between GPA1 and THF1 is consistent with an outer membrane localization for the pool of THF1 relevant to G-protein signaling, as FRET cannot occur between two sequestered fluorophores, one on the plasma membrane and one on the plastid stroma, because of the extreme proximity required for energy transfer. [[FIGURE]] Although nF/I is a robust method to measure FRET, we further validated the observed FRET signal using an acceptor photobleaching method. This method is routinely used to confirm FRET between various fluorophore pairs (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Its principle is that energy transfer is reduced or abolished when the acceptor fluorophore (in this case YFP) is photobleached, accompanied by dequenching of donor (CFP) fluorescence. This is a stringent diagnostic test for FRET, as in most circumstances fluorescence normally decreases after acceptor photobleaching (CITATION). After a 5-min irradiation at 480 nm, we found that CFP emission was dequenched in the same region where FRET was originally recorded (Figure 5H). A quantitative analysis of the nF/I recording is shown in Figure 5I. Before YFP photobleaching, the nF/I stabilized within 3 min (top gray line). After acceptor photobleaching, the FRET efficiency was reduced irreversibly to zero (bottom gray line). Our previous report described the phenotype of an insertion mutant in THF1. We demonstrated that a homozygous SALK insertion line (094925) is transcript null for THF1 and that the THF1 cDNA was capable of complementing the mutation (CITATION). We found that the gene was necessary for correct development of the thylakoid membrane and that the null allele conferred altered plant morphology, specifically stunted growth and variegated leaves (CITATION). To examine whether THF1 had any role in the G-protein–coupled sugar pathway, we tested the effect of increased d-glucose on the rate of thf1-1 primary root growth (Figure 6B ). Additionally, although THF1 expression was observed in root hairs (Figure 3D), no obvious root hair phenotype was observed for this mutant (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] As shown previously, on 1% d-glucose, gpa1-4 roots were similar to wild-type roots, although thf1-1 roots were ∼25% shorter and thf1-1 cotyledons were pale green (Figure 6B). However, on 6% d-glucose, thf1-1 seedlings were ∼50% shorter than gpa1-4 seedlings. Because root length is a complex trait, one that can be a result of altered germination rates, we quantitated the growth rate of the primary roots over time. On 1% d-glucose, the thf1-1 root growth rate was ∼10% lower than the wild-type rate (statistically insignificant) (Figure 6C, top); however, thf1-1 roots were never able to recover from the growth-arresting effect of high d-glucose compared with wild-type roots (Figure 6C, bottom). This finding suggests that the loss of THF1 confers either increased sensitivity to, or the inability to adapt to, high d-glucose. To complement these data, the effects of THF1 overexpression were tested. Two independent THF1 overexpression lines were germinated on 1% and 6% d-glucose. Contrary to the loss of THF1, ectopic overexpression of THF1 caused roots to grow at faster rates on either low or high d-glucose compared with the wild type at all times. This difference in phenotypes between gpa1-4 and thf1-1 enabled epistasis analysis between the gpa1-4 and thf1-1 alleles. The double mutant exhibited the same root-development phenotype as the thf1-1 null mutant on both normal and increased levels of d-glucose (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). This finding suggests a relationship between the two genes, which is consistent with our hypothesis that THF1 operates downstream of GPA1 in the G-protein–coupled sugar-signaling pathway. To test a mechanistic role for THF1 in sugar signaling, we quantitated the effect of d-glucose on the steady state level of THF1 protein by imaging and immunoblot analysis (Figure 7 ). As shown previously, 35S:THF1-GFP fluorescence was observed in plastids through the roots of 5-d-old seedlings (Figures 3E to 3G), including the root meristem. However, after 30 min of 6% d-glucose treatment, observable GFP fluorescence in roots was diminished. The four panels of Figure 7A are conventional fluorescence microscopy images of the same root and are representative of >20 roots assayed. No decrease in the levels of 35S:THF1-GFP fluorescence was observed after treatment with l-glucose (Figure 7A), NaCl, or mannitol. Sugar-induced changes in THF1-GFP fluorescence were not observed in the leaves. [[FIGURE]] Immunoblot analysis was used to confirm that the observed loss of signal was specific to d-glucose and that it was attributable to protein degradation (Figure 7B). Protein samples from 35S:THF1-GFP seedlings were extracted from seedlings treated with 0, 2, 4, or 6% d-glucose for 30 min and subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis with anti-GFP antibodies. As seen in Figure 7B, the steady state level of THF1-GFP protein was reduced over 30 min in a dose-dependent manner. However, in samples treated with l-glucose, the steady state level of THF1-GFP remained constant, showing specificity for the d-stereoisomer. Samples treated with d-glucose in the presence of the protease inhibitor MG132 did not show changes over time in THF1 steady state levels, suggesting that THF1 half-life is influenced by high d-glucose levels.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype used in this study was Columbia with the exception of the GPA1-overexpressing lines (Figure 1B), which were in Ws. Seeds were surface-sterilized and stratified for 4 to 5 d before germination at 22°C on half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium containing the indicated concentrations of d-glucose. Plants were grown under short-day conditions. Where required, plates were scored for root length daily and the data analyzed using ImageJ. All whole-seedling images were taken with a Sony DSC-F717 digital camera. The various plasmids were constructed using the Gateway cloning system (Invitrogen). For clarity in gene, mutant, and protein designations, the gene corresponding to the locus of At2g20890 is referred to as THF1, its open reading frame is referred to as THF1, the null mutant is referred to as thf1-1, and the protein is referred to as THF1. THF1 was inserted into the entry vector pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen) by topoisomerase-mediated ligation and then recombined into destination vectors pDEST15, pDEST24 (Invitrogen), pGWB5 (35S-driven C-terminal GFP fusion), pGWB6 (35S-driven overexpression), and pGWB41 (35S-driven C-terminal YFP fusion) (Research Institute of Molecular Genetics) to create the various expression vectors for Escherichia coli and plants. The GTPase-deficient form of GPA1(Q222L) is described by CITATION. Arabidopsis plants were transformed by the flower-dip method (CITATION). Transgenic T1 plants were identified by kanamycin resistance. Antiserum to THF1 was raised in rabbits (Cocalico Biologicals) as described previously (CITATION). Antisera to GPA1 (9271 and 9272) were generated in rabbits using as antigen the C-terminal peptide of GPA1 (DETLRRRNLLEAGLL) coupled to keyhole limpet hemocyanin via an N-terminal Cys thioester linkage. The homozygous T-DNA insertion mutant thf1-1 was generated from the Salk Institute sequence-indexed insertion mutant collection (http://signal.salk.edu/smission.html) as described previously (CITATION). The THF1 transcript level was quantified using the ThermoScript RT-PCR system (Invitrogen) together with gene-specific primers and THF1 protein levels by immunoblot analysis with the anti-THF1 polyclonal antibody. The gpa1-4 thf1-1 double mutant was generated by genetic crosses, and homozygous lines were identified by genotyping and confirmed by PCR-based genotyping. The GPA1-CFP and THF1-YFP single transformants were generated by the floral-dipping method from gpa1-4 and thf1-1 plants, respectively, and screened by fluorescence microscopy and RT-PCR. GPA1-CFP and THF1-YFP double-transgene plants were created by genetic crosses of the transformed parents using lines selected to ensure that transgene expression was not higher than in the wild type. The THF1 overexpression lines were screened by immunoblot analysis (data not shown). GUS activity in situ was performed as described by CITATION. Yeast strains were grown at 30°C in standard rich medium (yeast peptone dextrose [YPD]) or synthetic medium (synthetic dextrose [SD]) supplemented with the appropriate amino acids. Yeast two-hybrid screens were performed using an interaction mating protocol as described previously (CITATION). A yeast mating procedure was performed for the verification of positive clones. Gap-repair cloning was used to recombine the candidate PCR products with the linearized vector pACT2-1 in yeast strain AH109. The bait vector pAS-GPA1(Q222L) was transformed into Y187 strain. For mating, one colony of each type was suspended in YPD medium and incubated at 30°C for 5 h. YPD medium was removed after centrifugation, and cells were resuspended in 200 μL of water. Half of the culture was spread on SD/−Leu/−Trp plates and half on SD/−Leu/−Trp/−His/+3-aminotriazole plates. The growth of yeast was checked 48 h after plating. Growth on the corresponding single-dropout plates indicated transformation (data not shown). The cDNAs used for the prey screens were generously provided by Csaba Koncz and Hans Sommer (Max-Planck Institüt für Züchtungsforschung). For in vitro protein purification and interaction, 6xHis-GPA1 and GST-THF1 fusion proteins were purified from BL21(DE3) cells using affinity chromatography according to the manufacturer's instructions (6xHis-GPA1, Clontech; GST-THF1, Amersham). Poly-His-GPA1 was loaded with GDP or GTPγS before adding GST-THF1 to test the specific binding of GPA1 to THF1 in buffer A (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 50 mM NaCl, 2 mM DTT, 5 mM MgSO4, protease inhibitor cocktail for bacterial cell extracts [Sigma-Aldrich], and 100 μM GDP or GTPγS). The samples were incubated at 25°C for 1 h in the presence of glutathione-agarose, washed five times with the buffer, and eluted with 2× SDS-PAGE sample buffer. Proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotted with anti-GPA1 (rabbit polyclonal antiserum raised against a peptide representing the last 15 amino acids of GPA1, designations 9271 and 9272) and anti-GST (Sigma-Aldrich) antibodies. For in vivo coimmunoprecipitation, the myc epitope–tagged THF1 binary vector was transformed into Arabidopsis suspension cells (a gift from Csaba Koncz, Max-Planck Institüt für Züchtungsforschung) by Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation. Cells were cultured and harvested as described by CITATION. Total protein was extracted with buffer (as described above plus the addition of 1% Triton X-100). The expression level of the myc-THF1 fusion protein was confirmed by immunoblotting with an anti–c-myc antibody (mouse monoclonal 9E10; Santa Cruz Biotechnology) before coimmunoprecipitation was performed according to procedures described elsewhere (CITATION). Immunoprecipitated proteins were then resolved by SDS-PAGE, transferred to HybondP polyvinylidene difluoride membranes (Amersham Biosciences), and probed with the indicated antisera and antibodies. Fluorescence images of GPA1-CFP and THF1-YFP seedlings were captured using an Olympus IX81 inverted microscope controlled by IPlab software version 3.6 (Scanalytics). Images of CFP, YFP, and the CFP:YFP ratio were observed through a ×60 water-immersion objective and simultaneously captured by a cooled charge-coupled device camera (Photometrics Cascade digital camera; Roper Scientific) equipped with an OI-05-EM CFP/YFP FRET emission filter in a dual-view mounting tube. Filter sets used were YFP (excitation, 500/20 nm; emission, 535/30 nm), CFP (excitation, 436/20 nm; emission, 480/40 nm), and FRET (505dcxr; excitation, 436/20 nm; emission, 480/30 and 535/40 nm). For the YFP photobleaching FRET analysis, the YFP acceptor was photobleached by a 5-min, 480-nm irradiation. Calculation of normalized net FRET (nF/I) was performed with IPlab version 3.6 software, which uses established algorithms for two-filter FRET with fluorescence microscopy (CITATION). Plastids were isolated and fractionated as described previously (CITATION). Essentially, chloroplasts were isolated from 15- to 20-d-old seedlings grown on 0.5× Murashige and Skoog plates supplemented with sucrose as described previously (CITATION). Isolated intact chloroplasts were separated into membrane and soluble fractions by lysis in 0.1 M Na2CO3, pH 11.5, followed by centrifugation at 200,000g for 20 min. The pellets (membrane fraction) were directly dissolved in SDS-PAGE sample buffer. The soluble proteins were recovered by precipitation with trichloroacetic acid and dissolved into SDS-PAGE sample buffer. Intact chloroplasts were treated with trypsin as described previously (CITATION). Total protein extracts from Arabidopsis were obtained by directly homogenizing leaves in SDS-PAGE sample buffer, unless specified otherwise. To avoid proteolytic degradation, the extraction buffer was supplemented with 2000-fold diluted protease inhibitor cocktail for plant cell extracts (Sigma-Aldrich). Extraction of total proteins from different organs of soil-grown plants was done as described (CITATION). Sequence data of the genes used in this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers NM_127659 (THF1) and NM_128187 (GPA1). Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for the genes mentioned in this article are At2g20890 (THF1) and At2g26300 (GPA1). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Movie 1. Dynamics of Stromule Interactions with the Plasma Membrane. Supplemental Figure 1. Epistasis Analysis between thf1 and gpa1 Loss-of-Function Alleles for Sugar Sensitivity.
