!~ABS~! Activity of the serine-threonine protein kinase PINOID (PID) has been implicated in the asymmetrical localization of the membrane-associated PINFORMED (PIN) family of auxin transport facilitators. However, the means by which PID regulates PIN protein distribution is unknown. We have used recombinant PID protein to dissect the regulation of PID activity in vitro. We demonstrate that intramolecular PID autophosphorylation is required for the ability of PID to phosphorylate an exogenous substrate. PID-like mammalian AGC kinases act in a phosphorylation cascade initiated by the phospholipid-associated kinase, 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase 1 (PDK1), which binds to the C-terminal hydrophobic PDK1-interacting fragment (PIF) domain found in PDK1 substrates. We find that Arabidopsis PDK1 interacts with PID, and that transphosphorylation by PDK1 increases PID autophosphorylation. We show that a PID activation loop serine is required for PDK1-dependent PID phosphorylation. This activation is rapid and requires the PIF domain. Cell extracts from flowers and seedling shoots dramatically increase PID phosphorylation in a tissue-specific manner. A PID protein variant in which the PIF domain was mutated failed to be activated by the seedling shoot extracts. PID immunoprecipitated from Arabidopsis cells in which PDK1 expression was inhibited by RNAi showed a dramatic reduction in transphosphorylation of myelin basic protein substrate. These results indicate that AtPDK1 is a potent enhancer of PID activity and provide evidence that phospholipid signaling may play a role in the signaling processes controlling polar auxin transport.
!~RES~! PID has previously been shown to have autocatalytic activity in vitro (CITATION, CITATION). To determine whether the observed autophosphorylation is required for activation or stabilization of PID activity, we used time course experiments to examine the effect of PID autophosphorylation on transphosphorylation of the nonspecific substrate myelin basic protein (MBP). After undergoing autophosphorylation for increasing time intervals, PID was mixed with MBP and incubated for 15 min (FIG-REF B). In the absence of prior autophosphorylation (0 min), PID exhibited only weak transphosphorylation activity. Over a 45-min time course, PID showed an essentially linear increase in autophosphorylation activity. This increase was accompanied by a corresponding increase in transphosphorylation of MBP. We asked whether PID autophosphorylation involved intra- or intermolecular reactions. GST-tagged MPID (FIG-REF A), a kinase defective derivative containing a mutated ATP binding site (CITATION) that has been shown to be inactive both in vitro and in vivo (CITATION, CITATION), was mixed with wild-type His-tagged recombinant PID. After 45 min of coincubation, no radiolabeled phosphate was incorporated by the MPID protein (FIG-REF C). These data provide evidence that intramolecular autophosphorylation positively regulates the ability of PID to transphosphorylate substrates in vitro. It has been suggested that calcium is a negative regulator of PID activity in vivo, although it is unclear whether this observation reflects a direct inhibition of PID activity by calcium ions or an indirect effect through the binding of PID to calcium-binding proteins (CITATION). To distinguish between these possibilities, we tested the effect of Mg2+ and Ca2+ ions on PID activity in vitro. PID is similar to other known kinases in its absolute requirement for Mg2+ in nucleotide binding (FIG-REF D). Increasing levels of Mg2+ stimulated both autophosphorylation of PID and transphosphorylation of MBP (Fig. 7A, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). By contrast, PID was unable to use CaCl2 as divalent cation donor (FIG-REF D). Coincubation of PID with equimolar concentration of Mg2+ and Ca2+ resulted in a moderate reduction in PID autophosphorylation and effectively inhibited the ability of PID to transphosphorylate MBP as compared with PID activity in the presence of Mg2+ alone (FIG-REF D). In the presence of 15 mM Mg2+, calcium levels higher than 2.5 mM clearly inhibited both the auto- and transphosphorylation activities of PID (Fig. 7B). These data suggest that Ca2+ may inhibit PID activity by competitive binding and displacement of the Mg2+ cation.  PID is transiently expressed in embryos, young floral organs, and in root and shoot vascular tissues (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). To test whether the PID protein is differentially activated in these tissues, we measured the ability of plant extracts derived from flowers, siliques, leaves, seedling roots, or seedling shoots to stimulate PID activity. Total-protein extracts from each tissue type were coincubated with recombinant GST:PID in the presence of [γ-32P]ATP. Cell extracts from flowers and seedling shoots dramatically increased levels of PID phosphorylation (FIG-REF A). To distinguish between transphosphorylation by an endogenous kinase or increased autophosphorylation induced by a phosphorylation independent interaction, the experiment was repeated by using recombinant MPID protein as a substrate. MPID is phosphorylated in a pattern similar to that observed for PID, indicating that the differential phosphorylation is likely to be because of the tissue-specific activity of an upstream regulatory kinase present in tissue extracts. [[FIGURE]] The ability of untreated wild-type PID protein to phosphorylate MBP was compared with that of protein treated with either flower or seedling shoot extracts. FIG-REF B shows that PID activity was increased 14- and 10-fold, respectively, by the endogenous kinase present in flower and seedling shoot extracts. Because mammalian AGC kinases are known substrates for the upstream regulatory kinase PDK1 (CITATION), we tested whether PID and Arabidopsis PDK1 interact in vitro. Recombinant His-tagged PDK1 was incubated with GST:PID. Western blots of bound proteins probed with anti-His antibody show that both PID and MPID bind PDK1 (FIG-REF A). The interaction between PID and PDK1 results in a dramatic increase in PID phosphorylation (FIG-REF B). PID showed a 6.5-fold increase in measured phosphate incorporation as compared with MPID. This difference must represent increased PID autocatalysis in response to activation by PDK1, suggesting that transphosphorylation by PDK1 activates PID through up-regulation of autophosphorylation activity (FIG-REF B). Time course experiments show that the increase in PDK1-dependent PID autophosphorylation is rapid, with peak levels of activation occurring after 30 min of coincubation (Fig. 8, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). [[FIGURE]] Regulation of kinases often involves phosphorylation of residues within the activation loop (CITATION). There are two serine residues, S288 and S290, within the region of the PID activation loop corresponding to the putative PDK1 phosphorylation domain. Because elimination of one potential phosphorylation site within the PDK1 activation domain of PKC results in compensatory phosphorylation at an adjacent threonine (CITATION), we used a PID construct, ALS, in which both extant serines were replaced by glutamic acid to mimic the negative charge conferred by phosphorylation. Substitution of both serines with glutamic acid resulted in an increase in the basal autophosphorylation level of the mutant protein over that observed in wild-type PID, suggesting that one or more of these amino acids function as positive regulatory elements for PID function (FIG-REF C). This conclusion is supported by the observation that elimination of serine residues within the regulatory domain abolishes the ability of PDK1 to phosphorylate PID (FIG-REF C). Together, these data indicate that PDK1 activates PID by phosphorylating one or more of the serines within the PID activation loop. Plant AGC kinases contain a carboxyl-terminal PIF similar to that found in PKA. Two conserved phenylalanine residues in this domain have been shown to be required for PDK1 binding to mammalian AGC kinases (CITATION). To test whether these amino acids are also required for the interaction of PID with PDK1, we used a PID variant, PDF, in which both of the phenylalanines were replaced with valine (FIG-REF A) in GST pull-down experiments. A comparison of normalized protein levels shows that the amount of PDK1 recovered by PDF interaction was not appreciably different from that recovered by using wild-type PID (FIG-REF A), suggesting that these residues are not critical for protein interaction. However, phosphorylation assays showed that substitution of the phenylalanine residues blocks PDK1 phosphorylation of the PDF substrate (FIG-REF B). These data indicate that the conserved PIF domain is required for a functional interaction between PID and PDK1. [[FIGURE]] We examined the effect of the PDF mutation on the ability of seedling shoot extract to activate PID autophosphorylation. FIG-REF C shows that PDF autophosphorylation is reduced by 2.5-fold as compared with autophosphorylation of the wild-type protein after treatment with seedling extracts. The observed decrease in PDF phosphorylation suggests that PDK1 acts upstream of PID and may play an important role in PID activation. To determine whether PDK1 is required to activate PID in vivo, we tested the ability of PDK1 to activate PID in Arabidopsis protoplasts. Because cells showing stable expression of a PDK1 RNAi construct were difficult to propagate, protoplast transient assays were used. Cells were cotransfected with hemagglutinin (HA)-tagged PID and myc-tagged PDK1 in the presence or absence of a PDK1 RNAi construct. Immunoprecipitated PID was allowed to autophosphorylate for 15 or 45 min and then incubated with MBP, which is not a substrate for PDK1 (data not shown), to assess the transphosphorylation activity of PID. PID extracted from cells expressing PDK1 showed robust transphosphorylation activity as assayed by MBP labeling. In contrast, MBP was only weakly phosphorylated in cells coexpressing PID, PDK1, and the PDK1-RNAi constructs (FIG-REF). These results demonstrate that AtPDK1 is a potent upstream activator of PID in vivo. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The PDF variant was generated by PCR amplification and subcloned into the EcoRI–NotI sites of pGEX4T-1 vector (Amersham). Polyhistidine-tagged PID and PDK1 (At5g04510) were PCR amplified and subcloned into pET15b vector (Novagen) by using NdeI–XhoI and XhoI–BamHI sites, respectively. Protein expression was induced in transformed BL21 (DE3) cells with 1 mM isopropyl β-d-thiogalactoside when the OD600 reached 0.7. The culture was grown for 18 h at 24°C, and the bacterial pellet was harvested by centrifugation. Bacterial cells expressing polyhistidine-tagged PID (HIS:PID), were solubilized in buffer A (50 mM NaH2PO4/300 mM NaCl, pH 8.0) containing 1 mg/ml lysozyme, 10 mM imidazole (Sigma), and EDTA-free protease inhibitors (Roche) and incubated on ice for 30 min. Triton X-100 was added to 1%, and the soluble fraction was isolated by centrifuging for 30 min at 8,000 × g in an SS-34 rotor (Sorvall). Next, 2-mercaptoethanol was added to the lysate at a concentration of 14 mM. One milliliter of the soluble fraction was added to 250 μl of Ni-NTA resin (Qiagen) preequilibrated with 10 mM imidazole in buffer A, and the mixture was agitated at 4°C for 2 h. The resin-protein complex was washed four times with buffer B (buffer A with 20 mM imidazole) and two times with buffer B supplemented with 15% ethanol. GST-tagged proteins were purified as described in ref. CITATION. Twenty microliters of resin-bound HIS:PID or GST:PID proteins were washed once with kinase buffer (KB) (20 mM Tris, pH 7.5/15 mM MgCl2/1 mM DTT), resuspended in 30 μl of KB containing 50 μM ATP and 10 μCi of [γ-32P]ATP [Amersham; 3,000 Ci/mmol (1 Ci = 37 GBq)], and incubated for 45 min at 30°C. Reactions were terminated by adding 10 μl of 4× Laemmli loading buffer, and the samples were separated on 12% polyacrylamide gels (Life Therapeutics, Frenchs Forest, Australia). Gels were stained with Coomassie brilliant blue (Bio-Rad) and visualized by autoradiography. To determine PID transactivity, 3 μg of MBP and 5 μCi of [γ-32P]ATP were added to the autophosphorylation reaction after 45 min, and the mixture was incubated at 30°C for 15 min. Samples containing MBP were separated on 4–20% gradient gel. Divalent cations were added to the above reactions as described in the text. Fresh Arabidopsis tissue was homogenized on ice by grinding in KB supplemented with protease inhibitors. Supernatant containing 20 μg of total plant protein was applied to recombinant GST:PID protein immobilized on beads, and phosphorylation assays were performed as described earlier. After 30-min incubation, the beads were washed two times with KB buffer, resuspended in 30 μl of KB containing 3 μg of MBP, 50 μM ATP, and 5 μCi of [γ-32P] ATP, then incubated at 30°C for 15 min before the reaction was terminated. Samples were separated by PAGE and visualized by autoradiography. The band corresponding to MBP was excised from the gel, and incorporation of radioactivity was quantitated by liquid scintillation counting. HIS:PDK1 bacterial lysate was prepared as described by using a binding buffer (BB) (50 mM Tris, pH 6.8/200 mM NaCl/0.1% Tween). GST or GST-tagged PINOID proteins bound to agarose beads were incubated with equal volume of HIS:PDK1 lysate for 1–2 h at 4°C with gentle shaking. The beads were washed four times in BB and two times in BB with 300 mM NaCl and 2% glycerol, and the bound proteins were resuspended in Laemmli loading buffer. After separation by SDS/PAGE, the proteins were transferred to nitrocellulose membrane and the bound PDK1 was visualized by Western blotting with an anti-Penta-His primary antibody (Qiagen) and an horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated anti-mouse IgG secondary antibody. The HRP reaction was developed with an enhanced chemiluminescence Western blotting analysis system (Amersham). Twenty microliters of HIS:PDK1 bound to GST::PID beads was washed once with KB, resuspended in 30 μl of KB containing 50 μM ATP and 10 μCi of [γ-32P]ATP, and incubated for 30 min at 30°C. The reactions were terminated by adding 10 μl of 4× Laemmli loading buffer. The proteins were resolved by SDS/PAGE and visualized by autoradiography. cMyc-PDK1 and PDK1-RNAi were generated as described in ref. CITATION. The full-length PID cDNA was cloned into pDONR207 Gateway compatible vector via the BP reaction according to manufacturer’s protocols (Invitrogen). PID was transferred into the destination vector pGWB15 to generate a 3× N-terminal HA-tagged PID fusion construct 35S:HA-PID. Arabidopsis cell suspension cultures were maintained as described (CITATION). Protoplast isolation and polyethylene glycol-mediated transfection were performed according to Meskiene et al. (CITATION). For each time point shown, 5 μg each of HA-PID and cMyc-PDK1, with or without 5 μg of PDK1-RNAi were transfected into 7 × 105 cells, and the cells were cultured for 24 h before harvesting. Cells were lysed by vortexing frozen samples for 30 s in 100 μl of protein extraction buffer as described by Meskiene et al. (CITATION). After centrifugation, 80 μl of protein from the cleared supernatant was preincubated in the presence of 15 μl of protein G Sepharose beads. The supernatant was immunoprecipitated with 20 μl of protein G beads and 5 μl of HA antibody (clone 3F10; Roche Molecular Biochemicals) at 4°C. The beads were washed three times with wash buffer (50 mM Tris, pH 7.4/250 mM NaCl/5 mM EGTA/5 mM EDTA/0.1% Nonidet P-40/0.1% Tween 20) and once with kinase buffer. The bound proteins were resuspended in 20 μl of kinase buffer and 1 mM ATP. After PID autophosphorylation for 15 or 45 min, the kinase reactions were mixed with 10 μg of MBP and 2 μCi of [γ-32P]ATP and incubated for 30 min at room temperature. Phosphorylation of MBP was analyzed by autoradiography. For protein gel blot analysis, equal amounts of total protein extracts from each transfection were separated by SDS/PAGE, transferred to membrane, and probed with either monoclonal HA antibody or cMyc antibody (clone 9E10; Santa Cruz Biotechnology). The horseradish peroxidase reaction was developed with an enhanced chemiluminescence Western blotting analysis system.
