!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis GCN5, ADA2a and ADA2b proteins are homologs of components of several yeast and animal transcriptional coactivator complexes. Previous work has implicated these plant coactivator proteins in the stimulation of cold-regulated gene expression by the transcriptional activator protein CBF1. Surprisingly, protein interaction studies demonstrate that the DNA-binding domain of CBF1 (and of a related protein, TINY), rather than its transcriptional activation domain, can bind directly to the Arabidopsis ADA2 proteins. The ADA2a and ADA2b proteins can also bind directly to GCN5 through their N-terminal regions (comparable to a region previously defined in yeast Ada2) and through previously unmapped regions in the middle of the ADA2 proteins, which bind to the HAT domain of GCN5. The ADA2 proteins enhance the ability of GCN5 to acetylate histones in vitro and enable GCN5 to acetylate nucleosomal histones. Moreover, GCN5 can acetylate the ADA2 proteins at a motif unique to the plant homologs and absent from fungal and animal homologs. We speculate that this modification may represent a novel autoregulatory mechanism for the plant SAGA-like transcriptional coactivator complexes.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis CBF1 protein is a transcriptional activator that activates transcription of cold-regulated COR genes in response to low temperature CITATION. The CBF1 protein includes an N-terminal DNA-binding domain (aa 1–115) representing the AP2 domain family CITATION and a C-terminal transcriptional activation domain (aa 115–213; CITATION) (CITATIONA). We have previously shown that CBF1 can interact with the Arabidopsis transcriptional coactivator proteins ADA2a and ADA2b in a GST pull-down assay CITATION. These results were consistent with the hypothesis that ADA2 might serve as a contact point through which transcriptional activators recruit HAT complexes to target promoters CITATION. Yeast two-hybrid assays were used to further define which part of the CBF1 protein interacts with the ADA2 proteins. The ADA2a or ADA2b proteins were fused to the Gal4 DNA binding domain (as bait proteins), and various regions of CBF1 (CITATIONA) were fused to the Gal4 activation domain (as prey proteins). The results shown in CITATIONB and C indicate that the DNA-binding domain of CBF1, rather than its transcriptional activation domain, is sufficient for interaction with either ADA2a or ADA2b. Four different fragments of the DNA binding domain (fragments a, b, c and f in CITATIONB and C) showed evidence of interaction with ADA2a and with ADA2b. The smallest of these, fragment f, encompasses the three β-strands within the AP2 domain that directly contact DNA CITATION. In contrast, neither of the two fragments encompassing the transcriptional activation domain (fragments d and e) showed evidence of interaction. Immunoblots of yeast cells transformed with the various plasmids confirmed that the bait proteins bearing CBF1 fragments d and e were indeed expressed (data not shown), ruling out the trivial possibility that the lack of interaction was due to the failure of protein expression. Given this unexpected observation that the ADA2 proteins interacted with the DNA-binding domain rather than the activation domain of CBF1, we tested whether another AP2 family member might also interact with ADA2a and ADA2b. For this purpose we selected the TINY protein, which is 73% identical and 83% similar to CBF1 within the 60-residue AP2 DNA-binding domain. An N-terminal fragment of the TINY protein (aa. 1–95) was expressed as a prey protein fusion with the Gal4 activation domain. This fusion protein also interacted with the bait protein bearing ADA2b (CITATIOND) and ADA2a (data not shown). Prey plasmids with no insert or with the GCN5 HAT domain were used as negative and positive controls, respectively, for interaction with ADA2b (CITATIOND). Thus, the ability of AP2 DNA-binding domains to interact with the ADA2 coactivator proteins is not limited to CBF1. The Arabidopsis GCN5 protein interacts with both ADA2a and ADA2b in GST pull-down assays CITATION. Yeast two-hybrid assays were used to confirm this interaction and to map the interacting regions of each protein. The Arabidopsis GCN5 protein has three distinguishable domains including a unique N-terminus (aa 1–200) the function for which is not yet known, a catalytic HAT domain (aa 203–384), and a bromodomain (aa 451–568) (CITATION ). The Arabidopsis ADA2a and ADA2b proteins were also divided into three regions based on blocks of sequence similarity to the human and yeast homologs. These three regions included an N-terminal fragment (ADA2a aa 1–267, ADA2b aa 1–225), a middle fragment (ADA2a aa 267–418, ADA2b aa 225–377) and a C-terminal fragment (ADA2a aa 415–548, ADA2b aa 353–486). For yeast two-hybrid assays, the various domains of GCN5 were fused to the Gal4 DNA binding domain and the three individual domains of ADA2a or ADA2b were fused to the Gal4 activation domain. The results summarized in CITATION reveal a complicated set of interactions of the ADA2 proteins with GCN5. Many of those interactions are similar for ADA2a and ADA2b. The full-length ADA2a and ADA2b fusion proteins bound to the full-length GCN5 fusion protein, consistent with the GST pull-down results reported previously CITATION. The N-terminal fragments and the middle fragments of both ADA2a and ADA2b interacted with the full-length GCN5 protein, indicating that at least two distinct regions of the ADA2 proteins can bind to GCN5. The N-terminal portions of the ADA2 proteins did not interact with any of the smaller GCN5 fragments. In contrast, the middle regions of both ADA2a and ADA2b interacted with the HAT domain of GCN5. The C-terminal portions of ADA2a and ADA2b showed no evidence of interaction with the GCN5 protein; on the other hand, the bromodomain of GCN5 was not sufficient for interaction with any of the fragments of ADA2a or ADA2b. We conclude that the middle regions of ADA2a and ADA2b are sufficient for interaction with the HAT catalytic domain of GCN5. These similar patterns of interaction of GCN5 with various fragments of ADA2a or ADA2b suggest that sequences or structures common to the two ADA2 proteins are responsible for this interaction. However, several characteristics distinguish the ADA2a and ADA2b proteins in their associations with GCN5. The full-length ADA2a protein, but not the ADA2b protein, interacted with the N-terminal fragment of GCN5 (1–250) but not with a shorter region of GCN5 (1–210). A shortened version of the HAT domain (aa 203–369) of the GCN5 protein interacted with the middle region of ADA2a, but not with the corresponding portion of ADA2b. Moreover, the N-terminal fragment of ADA2b (aa 1–225), but not the corresponding region of ADA2a (1–267), interacted with a fragment of GCN5 (aa 369–568) that encompassed the bromodomain and the region between the HAT domain and the bromodomain (H–B region), although neither the bromodomain nor the H–B region alone was sufficient for this interaction. Thus, although in large measure the two ADA2 proteins interact with GCN5 in similar ways, these interactions differ in subtle ways that may have implications for biological activities including associations with other components of the corresponding HAT complexes. Other reports have suggested that the yeast Ada2 protein might serve both as a direct contact for transcriptional activator proteins CITATION and as a stimulator of GCN5 HAT activity CITATION. We tested whether the Arabidopsis ADA2 proteins affected the in vitro HAT activity of GCN5. HAT assays were performed with free core histones as substrates for recombinant GCN5 enzyme in the presence or absence of recombinant ADA2b fusion protein (GST-ADA2b) or the control GST protein. The results showed that ADA2b significantly enhanced GCN5 HAT activity, primarily on histone H3 (CITATIONA). Quantitative assays showed approximately five-fold greater HAT activity in the presence of either GST-ADA2b or His-tagged ADA2b (CITATIONB). In contrast to intact SAGA complexes, recombinant yeast Gcn5 effectively acetylates free histones but reacts poorly with nucleosomal histones as substrates CITATION. To investigate whether the plant ADA2 protein can influence the HAT activity of Arabidopsis GCN5 on nucleosomal histones, HAT assays were performed with oligonucleosomes purified from turkey erythrocytes. When a mixture of free core histones was used as substrate, the HAT activity of 2 pmol of GCN5 protein was enhanced by the presence of 5 pmol of GST-ADA2b protein to a level comparable to that observed for an aliquot of intact yeast SAGA complex (CITATIONC). Parallel assays showed that turkey nucleosomes were not effectively acetylated by GCN5 alone (lane 1), but were detectably acetylated in the presence of GST-ADA2b (lane 2) albeit to a level far less than that achieved by the SAGA complex (lane 3). Addition of recombinant His-tagged ADA2b showed a similar enhancement of nucleosomal acetylation, whereas GST alone had no effect (data not shown). We conclude that Arabidopsis ADA2 proteins can indeed stimulate the HAT activity of GCN5 on free histones and on nucleosomal histones, although additional components of the SAGA-related protein complexes may further enhance this effect. The yeast two-hybrid assays described in the previous section indicated that two different regions of the ADA2 proteins (the N-terminal and middle fragments) could bind to the full-length GCN5 protein. We tested whether these interacting regions could directly influence the enzymatic activity of GCN5. HAT assays were performed using free core histones, recombinant GCN5, and GST fusion proteins bearing the various regions of ADA2a or ADA2b. As shown in CITATIONA, both the N-terminal and the middle regions of ADA2a or ADA2b enhanced GCN5 HAT activity, whereas the C-terminal fragments of ADA2a (or ADA2b, data not shown) did not. Thus, the abilities of various regions of ADA2 proteins to interact with GCN5 correlate with their abilities to stimulate the GCN5 HAT activity. A surprising observation in the HAT assays described above was that the ADA2b protein itself was acetylated by GCN5 (CITATIONA, C). Additional assays confirmed that acetylation of ADA2b by GCN5 was independent of the presence of histones (data not shown). Given that acetylation of ADA2 proteins from other species has not been reported to date, several experiments were done to identify the acetylation site(s) in ADA2b. First, purified GST fusion proteins bearing the three regions of ADA2b were tested for acetylation by GCN5. The results show that only the N-terminal fragment (aa 1–225) was acetylated by GCN5 (CITATIONA). The presence of the middle fragment of ADA2b enhanced the acetylation of the N-terminal fragment by GCN5 (CITATIONA, fourth lane), similar to the enhancing effect on histone acetylation (CITATION). To further map the acetylation site, additional GST fusion proteins with various truncations in the N-terminal fragment of ADA2b were tested. Only two truncated versions (amino acids 1–225 and 28–225) could be acetylated (CITATIONB), whereas a fragment representing amino acids 1–208 was not acetylated. This result indicated that the region between amino acids 208–225 was necessary for acetylation by GCN5. Examination of the peptide sequence in this region revealed a stretch of nine amino acids similar to that of the N-terminal tail of histone H3 (CITATIONC). Lysine14 of histone H3 is the major site acetylated by GCN5, suggesting that the corresponding lysine (K215) of ADA2b might be the acetylation site. To test this prediction, purified GST fusion proteins with full-length ADA2b in which K215 was changed to either arginine or alanine were tested for acetylation by GCN5. The mutant ADA2b proteins were not acetylated by GCN5 (CITATION ), indicating that K215 was necessary for acetylation. Finally, mass spectrometric analysis of recombinant ADA2bN(1–222) protein, acetylated in vitro by GCN5, confirmed that K215 was the acetylation site (data not shown). The N-terminal fragment of ADA2a (aa 1–272) was also acetylated by GCN5 in vitro, whereas the corresponding N-terminal region of yeast Ada2 (aa 1–176) was not acetylated by either GCN5 or yeast Gcn5 (data not shown). The sequence alignment (CITATIONC) revealed that K257 in ADA2a might be the potential acetylation site. This hypothesis was supported by the observation that alanine and arginine substitutions for K257 abolished the acetylation of ADA2a by GCN5 (data not shown). The acetylation site sequence in ADA2a and ADA2b is also conserved in other plant ADA2 proteins such as that of rice and maize (data not shown), but is not found in budding yeast Ada2 and metazoan ADA2 proteins, suggesting the sequence is unique to plant ADA2 proteins. As described above, wild type ADA2b can enhance GCN5 HAT activity on both free core histones and nucleosomal histone H3. To investigate whether K215 was important for ADA2b to enhance GCN5 HAT activity, HAT assays were performed with purified recombinant mutants of ADA2b (K215R and K215A). The results showed that the mutant ADA2b proteins (K215R and K215A) enhanced the HAT activity of GCN5 as well as wild type ADA2b, on either free core histones or nucleosomal histones (CITATION). These results indicate that K215 is not essential for ADA2b to enhance GCN5 HAT activity in vitro. We have previously described an Arabidopsis mutant, ada2b-1, bearing a T-DNA insertion in the fifth intron of the ADA2b gene. Plants homozygous for this disruption mutation showed pleiotropic phenotypes including dwarf stature and sterility CITATION. Under laboratory growth conditions, the ada2b-1 phenotype can be suppressed by transgenic overexpression of wild type ADA2b cDNA. To investigate the importance of ADA2b acetylation in vivo, the K215R and K215A mutations of ADA2b were tested for their ability to suppress the ada2b-1 mutant phenotype. Plants heterozygous for the ada2b-1 allele were transformed with cDNAs encoding ADA2b (K215R or K215A) under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Progeny plants were screened by PCR to identify plants individuals homozygous for the T-DNA disruption mutation and bearing at least one copy of the 35S:ADA2b transgene. Several lines were identified that showed wild-type growth characteristics rather than the dwarf phenotype of the ada2b-1 mutant (CITATIONA). This result, on its surface, indicates that K215 and its acetylation are not essential for the biological activity of the ADA2b protein. However, this outcome must be interpreted with caution, since the expression levels of the transgenes were dramatically higher than the expression level of the endogenous ADA2b gene (CITATIONB). Thus, subtle (hypomorphic) effects of the K215R or K215A mutations may be masked by the gross overexpression of the respective transgenes.
!~MM~! The locus identification numbers for the Arabidopsis genes encoding the proteins examined in this study include At3g54610 (GCN5), At3g07740 (ADA2a), At4g16420 (ADA2b), At4g25490 (CBF1) and At5g25810 (TINY). Yeast two-hybrid assays were performed using the Matchmaker GAL4 System 3 (Clontech). cDNA fragments encoding various portions of Arabidopsis GCN5, ADA2a or ADA2b were amplified by PCR and inserted in frame with the Gal4 DNA-binding domain in the bait vector pGBKT7, which has TRP1 and kanamycin resistance markers for yeast and bacterial selection, respectively. cDNAs encoding various portions of Arabidopsis ADA2a, ADA2b, CBF1 or TINY were inserted in frame with the Gal4 activation domain in the prey vector pGADT7 which carries LEU2 and ampicillin resistance markers. Portions of the resulting plasmids were sequenced to ensure fidelity of the amplified regions and cloning junctions. Yeast cells of strain AH109 (MATa, trp1-901, leu2-3, 112, ura3-52, his3-200, gal4Δ, gal80Δ, LYS2::GAL1UAS-GAL1TATA-HIS3, GAL2UAS-GAL2TATA-ADE2, URA3::MEL1UAS-MEL1 TATA-lacZ) (CITATION and A. Holtz, unpublished) were transformed with various combinations of bait and prey plasmids and selected on solid synthetic dropout (SD) medium lacking leucine and tryptophan (Leu- Trp-). Transformants were then streaked onto solid SD medium (Ade- His- Leu- Trp-) containing X-α-gal and were allowed to grow for 3 to 4 days at 30°. In these conditions, positive interactions between prey and bait proteins result in the simultaneous expression of the reporter genes ADE2 and HIS3 (indicated by adenine and histidine prototrophy) and MEL1, whose protein product, α-galactosidase, catalyzes the conversion of X-α-gal (5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-α-d-galactopyranoside) into an insoluble blue product. Bacterial expression of the Arabidopsis proteins CBF1, GCN5, ADA2a, and ADA2b (or various portions thereof) was accomplished using the GST-tagged expression vector pGEX-6P-1 (Amersham Biosciences) or the His6-tagged expression vector pET-28 (Novagen). All recombinant proteins were expressed in E. coli strain BL21(DE3) Codon Plus (Stratagene) grown in LB broth and induced at room temperature for 16–18 h using 60 to 90 μM isopropyl-beta-d-thiogalactopyranoside. The purification procedures were carried out at 4 °C unless indicated. The cells were lysed in buffer H-150 (40 mM HEPES, 150 mM KCl, 10% glycerol, 7 mM 2-mercaptoethanol) with protease inhibitor cocktail tablets (Roche) using a French pressure cell. To improve the solubility of the expressed fusion proteins, Triton X-100 was typically added to the lysates at a final concentration of 0.2% and the lysate was rocked at 4 °C for 30 min. After centrifugation at 20,000×g for 20 min at 4 °C , the cleared supernatant was recovered and stored at −80 °C. To purify GST-fusion proteins, the supernatant was incubated with an appropriate volume of glutathione-Sepharose beads (Amersham Biosciences) at 4 °C for 1 h. The beads were washed with buffer H-150 containing 0.001% Triton X-100 and then washed once with buffer H-50 (containing 50 mM KCl). GST fusion proteins were eluted from the Sepharose beads with buffer H-50 and 20 mM glutathione or with a Tris-based buffer (50 mM Tris, pH 8.0, 50 mM NaCl, 1 mM DTT, 20 mM glutathione). For some experiments, the GST tag was subsequently removed by digestion with PreScission protease (Amersham Biosciences) while the fusion proteins were bound to the Sepharose beads in buffer H-50 for 4 h at 4 °C. Expression of the His6-ADA2b recombinant protein was induced as described above, and cell lysates were prepared by French pressure cell using buffer A (20 mM HEPES, 25 mM KCl, 5% glycerol, 7 mM 2-mercaptoethanol). The lysate was incubated with Ni-NTA beads (Qiagen) in buffer A containing 20 mM imidazole. Beads were washed several times in buffer A containing 200 mM potassium acetate and then finally in buffer A with 200 mM potassium acetate and 40 mM imidazole. The His6-ADA2b protein was eluted from the Ni-NTA beads using 225 mM imidazole in buffer A. The eluted His6-ADA2b was either used directly or dialyzed against buffer H at 4 °C. Protein acetylation assays were performed in reaction volumes ranging from 24 to 51 μl (depending on specific experiments) containing 40 mM HEPES pH 7.3 (or 50 mM Tris–Cl, pH 7.0 or 7.8), 50 mM KCl, 10% glycerol, 7 mM 2-mercaptoethanol (or 1 mM dithiothreitol), and 0.05 μCi to 0.2 μCi [3H]-acetyl-CoenzymeA (3.3 Ci/mmol, NEN). Recombinant GCN5 protein was added to these reactions in amounts ranging from 0.25 μg to 6 μg (4 pmol to 100 pmol). In some cases, parallel reactions contained yeast SAGA complexes which were kindly provided by Dr. Shelley Berger (Wistar Institute). Acetylation of free histones was tested using 15 μg of calf thymus core histones (Sigma). For testing acetylation of nucleosomal histones, mono- and oligonucleosomes were purified from turkey erythrocyte nuclei by micrococcal nuclease digestion and gel filtration chromatography using a minor modification of an established method for chicken erythrocytes CITATION. Some reactions contained GST-ADA2b fusion proteins (or GST as a negative control) in amounts ranging from 1.2 to 10 μg. Some reactions contained 6 mM sodium butyrate to inhibit histone deacetylases. Acetylation reactions proceeded for 5 to 30 min before being quenched with 12 μl of 2N HCl. In some experiments, three aliquots of each reaction were spotted onto Whatman P81 filter discs which were then washed in 50 mM NaHCO3 (pH 9.1) three times. Incorporated radioactivity was detected by scintillation counter using Ecolume liquid scintillation cocktail (ICN). In other experiments, reaction products were analyzed following electrophoresis in 12% or 15% SDS-polyacrylamide gels. Gels were first stained with Coomassie Blue to visualize all proteins and were then soaked in autoradiographic enhancer (NEN Life Science Products), vacuum dried and exposed to X-ray film for 3 days to detect radiolabeled proteins. Acetylation reactions were performed in 16 μl buffer (40 mM Tris–Cl pH 7.4, 50 mM KCl 10% glycerol, 7 mM 2-mercaptoethanol) containing 1–2 μg of recombinant ADA2b protein fragments, 0.5 μg GCN5, and 60 nM nonradioactive acetyl-CoenzymeA. The reaction was allowed to proceed for 30 min at 25 °C. The reaction products were resolved in a 12% SDS-polyacrylamide gel. A gel slice containing the ADA2b fragments was excised and digested with trypsin prior to separation of digestion products by reverse-phase HPLC. Matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectra (MALDI-TOF-MS) were obtained using a Voyager-DE-STR mass spectrometer (PerSeptive Biosystems, Framingham, MA) in linear mode. Spectra were compared to the predicted tryptic fragments of ADA2 as obtained through Protein Prospector (P. Baker and K. Clauser, University of California, San Francisco; http://prospector.ucsf.edu). Fragments in which the acetylation site could not be unambiguously identified using MALDI-TOF-MS were further analyzed using a Q-ToF Ultima API LC-MS/MS coupled to a Waters CapLC capillary HPLC (Micromass, Manchester, UK). Data were analyzed using the MASCOT search program (Matrix Science; http://www.matrixscience.com). Oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis was used to substitute arginine or alanine codons for lysine codons 257 or 265 in the ADA2a cDNA or lysine codon 215 in the ADA2b cDNA. After verification of the correct mutation, the altered gene fragments were inserted into plasmids expressing GST fusion proteins for in vitro analysis. The mutant ADA2b gene fragments were also incorporated into a plasmid, pKVA31 CITATION, for transformation and expression in plants. The plasmids expressing wildtype ADA2b or the K215R or K215A mutants were initially transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101, which was then used to transform Arabidopsis plants heterozygous for the ada2b-1 T-DNA disruption allele CITATION using the floral dip method CITATION. Transformed plants were selected on agar plates containing Gamborg's B-5 medium with Basta herbicide at 4 mg/L. Basta resistant seedlings were transplanted to soil and maintained on a 24-h light regimen. To identify the plants' genotypes, genomic DNA from rosette leaves was amplified by PCR using primers designed to detect the endogenous wildtype allele, the T-DNA disruption allele, and the transgenic allele. Expression of the ADA2b transgenes and the endogenous locus was assayed by Northern blot analysis using total RNA isolated from rosette leaves. About 5 μg of total RNA was electrophoresed in 1% agarose gels and transferred to Hybond N+ membrane (Amersham Biosciences) by capillary transfer. The RNA on the membrane was cross-linked by UV light and was then hybridized with a [32P]-labeled probe representing nucleotides 1–434 of the ADA2b cDNA. Hybridization was performed in PerfectHyb™ buffer (Sigma) at 68 °C overnight with 100 μg/ml sheared herring testis single strand DNA as non-specific blocker. The membrane was subsequently washed in 2× SSC, 0.1% SDS and 0.01% sodium pyrophosphate briefly at room temperature, and then in 0.5× SSC, 0.1% SDS and 0.01% sodium pyrophosphate at 65 °C for 30 min. The hybridization signals were detected using a PhosphorImager.
