!~ABS~! Plasma membrane proteins are displayed through diverse mechanisms, including anchoring in the extracellular leaflet via glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) molecules. GPI-anchored membrane proteins (GPI-APs) are a functionally and structurally diverse protein family, and their importance is well-recognized as they are candidate cell surface biomarker molecules with potential diagnostic and therapeutic applications in molecular medicine. GPI-APs have also attracted interest in plant biotechnology because of their role in root development and cell remodeling. Using a shave-and-conquer concept, we demonstrate that phospholipase D (PLD) treatment of human and plant plasma membrane fractions leads to the release of GPI-anchored proteins that were identified and characterized by capillary liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry. In contrast to phospholipase C, the PLD enzyme is not affected by structural heterogeneity of the GPI moiety, making PLD a generally useful reagent for proteomic investigations of GPI-anchored proteins in a variety of cells, tissues, and organisms. A total of 11 human GPI-APs and 35 Arabidopsis thaliana GPI-APs were identified, representing a significant addition to the number of experimentally detected GPI-APs in both species. Computational GPI-AP sequence analysis tools were investigated for the characterization of the identified GPI-APs, and these demonstrated that there is some discrepancy in their efficiency in classification of GPI-APs and the exact assignment of ω-sites. This study highlights the efficiency of an integrative proteomics approach that combines experimental and computational methods to provide the selectivity, specificity, and sensitivity required for characterization of post-translationally modified membrane proteins.  Keywords: post-translational modification • GPI-anchor • membrane protein • subproteome • modification-specific proteomics • mass spectrometry • glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D 
!~RES~! Release of GPI-Anchored Proteins by Phospholipase D. The concept of modification-specific proteomics encompasses the integration of techniques to provide selectivity, specificity, and sensitivity for detection of a distinct class of post-translationally modified proteins.1 In the present study, we used plasma membrane preparation methods and the enzyme phospholipase D to achieve high selectivity toward membrane-associated GPI-APs from human cell culture (HeLa) and from A. thaliana cell culture. Next, mass spectrometry analysis by capillary LC−MS/MS provided high analytical sensitivity and specificity for protein identification. Finally, computational sequence analysis provided further specificity to validate bona fide GPI-APs and to eliminate false positive assignments. We modified the analytical strategy for proteomic analysis of GPI-anchored proteins that was previously introduced by our laboratory.30 The PLD enzyme was used instead of the PI-PLC enzyme to release GPI-APs from the plasma membrane fractions in the presence of detergent. PLD enzyme treatment in a Triton X-114 suspension at 37 °C followed by two-phase partitioning of the membrane proteins and soluble proteins at 4 °C was applied to the analysis of raft-enriched membrane (REM) fractions from H. sapiens or microsome preparations from A. thaliana.  The PLD enzyme hydrolyses the glycosylphosphatidylinositol, releasing the soluble GPI-protein from the membrane/detergent phase and enabling its recovery in the aqueous phase. Without a priori knowledge of the anchor forms of GPI-APs present, we expected that PLD would be able to access most of the GPI-APs present in the membranes. Control experiments were conducted using no treatment (negative control) or commercially available PI-PLC, as previously described.30  Protein samples isolated in this way were concentrated by precipitation, and a fraction was separated by SDS-PAGE. Silver staining of the SDS-PAGE gels demonstrated that a range of proteins were selectively recovered after PLD treatment of human raft-enriched membrane protein samples (Figure 2CITATION, panel A) and plant plasma membrane preparations (Figure 3CITATION, panel A). It was clear that both PLD and PLC treatment generated a range of proteins in the soluble fraction, as compared to the untreated control. In our previous proteomic study of GPI-APs,30 we used Western blotting by anti-cross-reacting determinant (CRD) antibody19 to confirm the release of GPI-APs upon PI-PLC treatment. However, PLD cleaves at a different site than PLC (Figure 1), and the residual GPI anchor is not recognized by the anti-cross-reacting determinant antibody, and so this method was omitted in the present study. [[FIGURE]][[FIGURE]]  Protein Identification by Tandem Mass Spectrometry and Sequence Database Searching. 1. Identification of GPI-APs in a Human Lipid Raft-Enriched Fraction. Proteins recovered after PLD treatment of the human lipid raft-enriched sample were identified after tryptic digestion of the protein precipitate or after SDS-PAGE separation and in-gel digestion of proteins. Nine protein bands were excised from the SDS-PAGE gel containing the GPI-AP-enriched fraction from human REM fractions as indicated in Figure 2, panel A. Recovered peptides were analyzed by capillary HPLC interfaced to electrospray ionization quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry (LC−MS/MS) and the peptide tandem mass spectra submitted for database searching. For example, Figure 2B shows two tandem mass spectra obtained from protein band 6 that were assigned to the tryptic peptides VENQVLSVR and LQDASAEVER from bone marrow stromal antigen-2. When a criteria of having at least two peptides matched to accept a protein identification was used, a total of 42 proteins were identified by LC−MS/MS of peptide samples obtained by in-gel and in-solution digestion of the PLD-treated human membrane protein sample. To further evaluate these 42 protein sequences, we used computational sequence analysis tools to distinguish genuine GPI-APs from proteins that were released or leaked from membranes independent of PLD enzyme treatment. Three GPI-AP prediction algorithms were investigated, including Big-PI (http://mendel.imp.univie.ac.at/gpi/gpi_server.html), DGPI (http://www.expasy.org/tools/), and GPI-SOM (http://gpi.unibe.ch/). As the result, 11 protein sequences were assigned as GPI-APs by at least two of the three prediction tools (Table 2CITATIONCITATION), whereas 31 of the 42 proteins were disqualified based on the lack of the required amino acid sequence features. These latter proteins are probably present in the soluble fraction due to release from the membrane fraction by residual proteolytic activity or due to leaking as a result of high abundance. [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]]  These experiments demonstrate for the first time that PLD is a useful and efficient enzyme for the proteomic analysis of GPI-APs in human plasma membrane preparations. Eleven out of 42 identified human proteins (26%) were bona fide GPI-APs, and they currently represent the largest set of human GPI-APs found in a single proteomic experiment. In contrast, a proteomic analysis of lipid rafts revealed only 5 GPI-APs among 241 authentic lipid raft proteins.4 Thus, the present modification-specific strategy for determination of GPI-APs is significantly more efficient and sensitive than standard proteomics methods that do not target particular types of modified membrane proteins. We also conclude that it is preferable to use several independent computational sequence analysis tools for validation of GPI-anchored protein assignments (see below).  Several interesting observations were made during data analysis and interpretation. We previously identified mesothelin/megakaryocyte potentiating factor in the PLC-released fraction.30 However, at that time, the algorithms predicted the sequence database entry (Q9UK57) as a clear non-GPI-AP, and we considered the protein a contaminant. The database entry Q9UK57 represents the soluble form of mesothelin/megakaryocyte potentiating factor. In the present study, we identified this protein by sequencing of four peptides in the PLD-released fraction. Submitting the pre-pro-megakaryocyte potentiation factor sequence (Q14859) or mesothelin (Q9BR17 or Q13421), all of which contain the sequence covered by the identified peptides, the protein is recognized as GPI-AP by all three predictors (Table 2).  Bone marrow stromal antigen 2 (Bst-2) was recognized as GPI-AP by all three predictors, but at the same time, it contained a transmembrane domain close to its NH2-terminus as revealed by the DAS TM filter (http://mendel.imp.univie.ac.at/sat/DAS/DAS.html).CITATION The observation of both an NH2-terminal transmembrane domain and a GPI anchor in the same protein is in agreement with another report for rat Bst-2,CITATION and the same features were also found in a minor but pathologically important isoform of the prion protein (PrP) and in a plant protein involved in disease resistance, NDR1.CITATION The fact that we observed this protein in the PLD-treated sample from human REM fraction indicates that the transmembrane domain of the Bst-2 protein was proteolytically removed. Otherwise, the protein would remain associated with the membrane fraction of the two-phase system.  2. Identification of GPI-APs in A. thaliana Plasma Membrane Preparations. The growing importance of GPI-APs in plant biology is reflected in recent proteomic29,30 and genetic studies of GPI-AP from A. thaliana.CITATION We therefore investigated whether PLD is applicable to proteomic analysis of GPI-APs in the plant A. thaliana. SDS-PAGE separation demonstrated specific enrichment of proteins after PLD treatment of A. thaliana plasma membrane protein preparations (Figure 3, panel A). LC−MS/MS analysis of peptide mixtures obtained by in-gel digestion or in-solution digestion of protein leads to the identification of 27 individual proteins (minimum of two peptide matches to accept a protein identification) (Table 3CITATION). We noted that an additional 15 proteins were identified by one peptide sequence match, only (Table 3). [[TABLE]]  The tandem mass spectrum corresponding to the tryptic peptide SDGGGVFEILDR is shown in Figure 3, panel B. The very good quality MS/MS data and the high mass accuracy and mass resolution of the QTOF mass spectrum enabled unambiguous identification of this protein as PLC-X domain-containing protein (At5g67130). We then used the three different GPI-AP prediction tools and published data29,30 to validate the assignment of GPI-APs in the dataset (Table 3). The PLC-X domain-containing protein, At5g67130 was recognized as GPI-AP by the DGPI, GPI-SOM, and Big-Pi algorithms but not by the predictor by Borner et al.29 Among the 27 proteins identified by at least two MS/MS-based peptide sequence matches, a total of 25 were recognized as bona fide GPI-APs, again demonstrating the high selectivity, specificity, and sensitivity of the modification-specific approach to proteomics. Among the 15 proteins that were identified with high probability by only one MS/MS-based peptide match, an additional 10 GPI-APs were assigned. The set of 35 GPI-APs were validated by high probability scores by at least two of the computational techniques (Table 3). Furthermore, 34 of these GPI-APs were assigned as such by three independent computational methods.  The highest amino acid sequence coverage was obtained for the Reticuline oxidase-like/FAD binding domain-containing protein and the SKU5-At4g12420, suggesting that these proteins are the most abundant in the preparation. Five GPI-APs were detected experimentally for the first time (Table 3), including fasciclin-like protein (FLA9, At1g03870), aspartyl protease-like family protein (At1g65240), glycero-phosphodiesterase-like protein (Atg66970), and two β-1,3 glucanases (At3g58100 and At5g61130).  Reticulin oxidase-like protein/FAD binding domain-containing protein (At4g20830) was previously described as a major contaminant protein that co-purifies when using the Triton X-114 two-phase separation in combination with PI-PLC treatment,29,30 and it was detected in plant rafts.6 We now assign this protein as a true GPI-AP since a revised amino acid sequence extended by 30 amino acids has emerged in the database (gi 30685222). As a result, DGPI and GPI-SOM recognize At4g20830 as a GPI-anchored protein. 
!~MM~! Preparation of Membranes. HeLa cells were serum-starved and lysed in 100 mM Na2CO3, pH 11.0, and mechanically disrupted by 10 strokes in a Dounce homogenizer and three 20 s bursts of a probe sonicator. The lysates were cleared and combined with an equal volume of 90% sucrose in MES-buffered saline (MBS, 150 mM NaCl and 25 mM MES, pH 6.5) for a final sucrose concentration of 45%. This solution was then placed in the bottom of an ultracentrifuge tube as the base of a discontinuous sucrose gradient. Additional layers consisting of 35% and 5% sucrose in MBS were gently placed on top, and the whole gradient was centrifuged at 166 000g for 18 h at 4 °C. The resulting low-density light-scattering band (approximately 18% sucrose) was extracted, diluted 4× in Na2CO3, and centrifuged a further 2 h (166 000g, 4 °C) to pellet the raft-enriched membranes.CITATION  Suspension cultures of A. thaliana were maintained as described previously.CITATION Plasma membranes were prepared as reported,CITATION using a homogenization buffer containing 250 mM sucrose, 100 mM HEPES/KOH, pH 7.5, 15 mM EGTA, 5% glycerol, 0.5% poly(vinylpyrrolidone) K 25, 3 mM DTT, and 1 mM PMSF at 2 mL/g fresh weight. Microsomal membranes were resuspended in buffer R (250 mM sucrose, 5 mM potassium phosphate, pH 7.5, and 6 mM KCl) and subjected to phase partitioning38 in 6.0% each dextran T-500 and poly(ethylene glycol) 3350 in buffer R. For removal of external soluble proteins, plasma membranes were washed with 100 mM Na2CO3.  Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-Specific Phospholipase D (PLD) Purification. The PLD enzyme was purified from bovine serum as previously described.CITATION PLD had an activity of 4700 U/mL at 0.28 mg protein/mL. PLD was stored in a buffer of 10 mM triethanolamine/HCl, pH 7.4, containing 0.05% Na-azide and 150 mM NaCl.  Two-Phase Separation and Phospholipase D Treatment. Two-phase separation was performed as described.28 Membranes were equilibrated by resuspending the pellet in buffer A (20 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 0.2 mM PMSF, and 0.5 tablet of protease inhibitor per mL) and pelleted again at 20 000g for 20 min. The membrane fraction was resuspended in 100 μL of buffer A, and then the same volume Triton X-114 was added and mixed to homogeneity. The mixture was chilled on ice for 5 min and then transferred to 37 °C for 20 min for phase separation. The aqueous supernatant was discarded, and the procedure was repeated. The detergent phase was recovered, and 100 μL of A buffer with 4 μL of PLD (4700 U/mL and 0.28 mg protein/mL) was added; the mixture was incubated at 37 °C with shaking. After 1 h, phase separation was performed, and the aqueous supernatant was recovered. Buffer and enzyme was added again, and the procedure was repeated. The two resulting supernatants were pooled, and the proteins were recovered by acetone precipitation.  Tryptic Digestion of Protein. 1. In-Gel Digestion. Proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and visualized by silver staining. Protein bands were cut out and in-gel-digested with trypsin.CITATION  2. In-Solution Digestion. Proteins recovered by acetone precipitation were resuspended in 21 μL of 400 mM NH4HCO3 (pH 7.8) in 8 M urea. Five microliters of 45 mM DTT was added, and the mixture was incubated for 15 min at 50 °C, then chilled, and 5 μL of 100 mM iodacetamide was added for S-alkylation, followed by incubation in the dark at room temperature for 15 min. Lys C protease was added (15 ng, Princeton, Adelphia, NJ), and the sample was incubated at 37 °C for 6 h. One hundred and forty microliters of H2O and 20 pmol of sequence grade trypsin (Promega, Madison,WI) in 5 μL of 100 mM NH4HCO3 were added and incubated overnight at 37 °C. The digests were then kept at −20 °C.  Prior to MS, peptide mixtures were loaded onto custom-made POROS R2 and R3 GeL-Loader microcolumnsCITATION and washed with 5% FA. Peptides were eluted in 80% acetonitrile in 5% FA then dried in a vacuum centrifuge for subsequent mass spectrometric analysis.  Mass Spectrometry. Automated nanoflow liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry analysis was performed using a QTOF Ultima mass spectrometer (Waters/Micromass, Manchester, U.K.) employing automated data dependent acquisition (DDA). A nanoflow-HPLC system (Ultimate; Switchos2; Famos; LC Packings, Amstersdam, The Netherlands) was used to deliver a flow rate of 175 nL/min. Chromatographic separation was accomplished by loading peptide samples onto a homemade 2 cm fused silica precolumn (75 μm i.d.; 360 μm o.d.; Zorbax SB-C18 5 μm (Agilent, Wilmington, DE)) using autosampler essentially as described.CITATION Sequential elution of peptides was accomplished using a linear gradient from Solution A (0% acetonitrile in 1% formic acid/0.6% acetic acid/0.005% heptafluorobutyric acid (HFBA)) to 40% of solution B (90% acetonitrile in 1% formic acid/0.6% acetic acid/0.005% HFBA) in 30 min over the precolumn in-line with a homemade 8 cm resolving column (75 μm i.d.; 360 μm o.d.; Agilent Zorbax SB-C18 3.5 μm). The resolving column was connected using a fused silica transfer line (20 μm i.d.) to a distally coated fused silica emitter (New Objective, Cambridge, MA) (360 μm o.d./20 μm i.d./10 μm tip i.d.) biased to 2.6 kV.  The mass spectrometer was operated in the positive ion mode with a resolution of 9000−11 000 full width at half-maximum (fwhm). Data-dependent analysis was employed (three most abundant ions in each cycle were selected for MS/MS): 1 s MS (m/z 350−1500) and max 4 s per MS/MS (m/z 50−2000, continuum mode), 30 s dynamic exclusion. A charge state recognition algorithm was employed to determine optimal collision energy for low energy CID MS/MS of peptide ions. Raw data was processed using MassLynx 3.5 ProteinLynx (smooth 3/2 Savitzky Golay and center 4 channels/80% centroid), and the resulting MS/MS data set was exported in the Micromass pkl format. External mass calibration using NaI resulted in mass errors of less than 50 ppm, typically 5−15 ppm in the m/z range 50−2000. To compensate for mass accuracy drift due to temperature fluctuations, the centroided data from each LC−MS run was recalibrated postacquisition using a custom-made perl-script that fitted by linear regression the observed m/z values to the theoretical ones based on the best scoring peptide identifications made by MASCOT.  Automated peptide identification from raw data was performed using an in-house MASCOT server (v. 1.8) (Matrix Sciences, London, U.K.) using the NCBI nonredundant protein database and the following constraints: only tryptic peptides up to two missed cleavage sites were allowed; ±0.5 Da tolerance for MS and ±0.2 Da for MS/MS fragment ions; carbamidomethyl cysteine (C) was specified as a fixed modification; deamidation (NQ), and methionine oxidation (M) were specified as variable modifications. All of the GPI-APs from HeLa cells and most of the GPI-APs in Arabidopsis were identified based on two or more different peptide tandem mass spectra matching to each individual protein. A total of 15 A. thaliana GPI-APs were each identified based on one peptide sequence obtained by tandem mass spectrometry. In these cases, the tandem mass spectra were manually inspected to validate the data and the corresponding protein sequence assignments.  Peptides from in-solution digests were analyzed as described above except that a gradient of 5−60%B in 95 min was used. Data-dependent analysis was employed (five most abundant ions in each cycle): 1 s MS (m/z 350−1500) and max 3 s per MS/MS (m/z 50−2000, continuum mode), 60 s dynamic exclusion. 
