!~ABS~! Limited information is available about the roles of specific WRKY transcription factors in plant defense. We report physical and functional interactions between structurally related and pathogen-induced WRKY18, WRKY40, and WRKY60 transcription factors in Arabidopsis thaliana. The three WRKY proteins formed both homocomplexes and heterocomplexes and DNA binding activities were significantly shifted depending on which WRKY proteins were present in these complexes. Single WRKY mutants exhibited no or small alterations in response to the hemibiotrophic bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae and the necrotrophic fungal pathogen Botrytis cinerea. However, wrky18 wrky40 and wrky18 wrky60 double mutants and the wrky18 wrky40 wrky60 triple mutant were substantially more resistant to P. syringae but more susceptible to B. cinerea than wild-type plants. Thus, the three WRKY proteins have partially redundant roles in plant responses to the two distinct types of pathogens, with WRKY18 playing a more important role than the other two. The contrasting responses of these WRKY mutants to the two pathogens correlated with opposite effects on pathogen-induced expression of salicylic acid–regulated PATHOGENESIS-RELATED1 and jasmonic acid–regulated PDF1.2. While constitutive expression of WRKY18 enhanced resistance to P. syringae, its coexpression with WRKY40 or WRKY60 made plants more susceptible to both P. syringae and B. cinerea. These results indicate that the three WRKY proteins interact both physically and functionally in a complex pattern of overlapping, antagonistic, and distinct roles in plant responses to different types of microbial pathogens.
!~RES~! There are >70 genes encoding WRKY proteins in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION). Based on the number and structures of the conserved WRKY zinc-finger motifs, these WRKY proteins can be classified into three groups (CITATION). The first group contains two Cys2His2 zinc-finger motifs, the second group contains one Cys2His2 zinc-finger motif, and the third group contains one Cys2HisCys zinc-finger motif. Phylogenetic analyses of amino acid sequence of whole WRKY proteins or conserved WRKY zinc-finger motifs placed WRKY18, WRKY40, and WRKY60 into one of several distinct subgroups within the second group of the WRKY protein family (CITATION; CITATION). Multiple alignments of the amino acid sequences of the three proteins indicate that they share an overall 60 to 70% sequence identity (Figure 1 ). In addition to the conserved WRKY zinc-finger motifs, WRKY18, WRKY40, and WRKY60 share a potential Leu zipper motif at the N terminus and a conserved region at the C terminus. Structural divergence among these WRKY proteins is also obvious in a number of regions. Most notably, WRKY18 contains a His-rich region between the Leu zipper motif and the WRKY zinc-finger motif, but no such His-rich motif is found in WRKY40 or WRKY60 (Figure 1). Significant structural divergence is also found at the N terminus as well as in a region between the WRKY domain and the conserved C terminus where gaps of various numbers of amino acid residues are found (Figure 1). [[FIGURE]] A Leu zipper motif is a region of ∼30 to 35 amino acid residues where the sequence can be arranged in modules of seven residues (CITATION). In each module, the fourth residue is usually Leu, and the first residue is frequently hydrophobic. According to this definition, the potential Leu zipper motifs at the N terminus of WRKY18, WRKY40, and WRKY60 can be divided into six modules (Figure 1). The fourth residues in four of the six modules are Leu, while the other two modules have Val or Met at this position. In addition, the hydrophobic Leu and Ile residues are also found at the first amino acid position of some of these modules. As shown below, the Leu zipper motifs are involved in the physical interaction of these WRKY proteins. We have previously shown that expression of WRKY18, WRKY40, and WRKY60 are induced by infection of an avirulent strain of the bacterial pathogen P. syringae and treatment of SA (CITATION). In this study, we have analyzed expression of the three WRKY genes in response to a virulent strain of the bacterial pathogen and the necrotrophic fungal pathogen Botrytis cinerea. As shown in Figure 2A , infection of the bacterial pathogen induced strong expression of WRKY18, whereas infiltration of an MgCl2 buffer used for suspension of the bacterial pathogen caused only a low level of induction (Figure 2A). Expression of WRKY40 and WRKY60 was also stronger in pathogen-infected plants than in buffer-infiltrated plants (Figure 2A). Infection of B. cinerea also led to induced expression of the three WRKY genes (Figure 2B). Spraying a maltose buffer used for suspension of B. cinerea spores, on the other hand, induced little expression of the three WRKY genes (Figure 2B). Thus, expression of the three WRKY genes was induced by both the virulent and avirulent strains of P. syringae and by the necrotrophic fungal pathogen B. cinerea. [[FIGURE]] WRKY18, WRKY40, and WRKY60 proteins, as putative transcription factors, are likely to be localized in the nucleus, and the presence of putative nuclear localization signals predicted by the PSORT II program is consistent with this possibility. To test this, we constructed green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions of the three WRKY proteins and demonstrated that these transiently expressed GFP/WRKY fusion proteins were localized exclusively to the nuclei of onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells (Figure 3 ). By contrast, the unfused GFP protein was found in both the nucleus and cytoplasm (Figure 3). Nuclear localization of these WRKY proteins supports their roles as transcriptional regulators. [[FIGURE]] We previously showed that mature transgenic Arabidopsis plants constitutively expressing WRKY18 exhibited enhanced resistance to a virulent strain of P. syringae (CITATION). To understand how the WRKY protein enhances plant defense responses, we tried to identify its interacting proteins using yeast two-hybrid screens. In these screens, we used a fusion protein of WRKY18 with the Gal4 DNA binding domain as bait. The yeast strain transformed with the bait construct failed to grow in the selective medium (data not shown), indicating that WRKY18 did not confer transcriptional activation activity to the fusion protein in yeast. We screened >2 × 107 independent transformants of a cDNA library generated from SA-treated Arabidopsis plants at a complexity of 2 × 106. The screens yielded two groups of cDNA fragments. The first group, which was isolated twice, encodes WRKY18, suggesting that this DNA binding protein can self-interact. The second group, which was isolated six times, encodes WRKY40. WRKY18 and WRKY40 are structurally similar with >60% identical amino acid residues (Figure 1). These two proteins also form a subgroup with WRKY60 in phylogenetic studies based on WRKY DNA binding domains or full-length protein sequences (CITATION; CITATION). Since WRKY18 interacts with itself and with WRKY40, we investigated whether the mutual and self-interactions could happen to the other two members of the subgroup. Indeed, both WRKY40 and WRKY60 self-interacted based on yeast two-hybrid assays (Figures 4A and 4B ). In addition, these three WRKY proteins interacted with each other: WRKY18 interacted with WRKY40 and WRKY60, and WRKY40 interacted with both WRKY18 and WRKY60 (Figures 4A and 4B). Thus, the three WRKY proteins not only self-interact to form three different homocomplexes but also interact with each other to form heterocomplexes. [[FIGURE]] We next tested the role of two structural motifs of these three WRKY proteins in the protein–protein interactions. As shown in Figure 1, WRKY18 contains two conspicuous structural motifs in addition to the WRKY zinc-finger motif: a His-rich region (HRR) and a Leu zipper (LZ). To test the role of the HRR, we generated a construct encoding an HRR-less WRKY18 (W18ΔHRR) and used it as bait in yeast two-hybrid assays. As shown in Figure 4A, yeast cells transformed with both the bait and the full-length WRKY18, WRKY40, or WRKY60 prey construct were able to grow on the selective medium. Thus, the HRR-less WRKY18 was fully capable of interacting with itself and with WRKY40 and WRKY60, indicating that the HRR was not required for the protein–protein interaction. To analyze the role of LZ in protein–protein interaction, we generated LZ-less WRKY18 (W18ΔLZ) and used it as bait in the yeast two-hybrid assays. Yeast cells transformed with the combination of the LZ-less WRKY18 bait and the WRKY18, WRKY40, or WRKY60 prey construct were unable to grow on the selective medium (Figure 4A) and generated little Gal4-inducible LacZ activity (Figure 4B). In addition, we generated LZ-less WRKY40 and WRKY60 and found that they were unable to interact with themselves or with the other two WRKY proteins (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). These results suggest that the LZ motifs in these WRKY proteins mediate protein–protein interactions with themselves and with each other. Further analysis with site-directed mutations would be required to confirm the role of the LZ motifs in interactions of the WRKY proteins. We also performed coimmunoprecipitation to determine in vivo interactions of WRKY18 with itself and with WRKY40 and WRKY60. Through genetic crossing or double transformation, we generated transgenic plants harboring a combination of a FLAG-tagged WRKY18 gene driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter and a MYC-tagged WRKY gene driven by a steroid-inducible Gal4 promoter (CITATION). As shown in Figure 4C, the protein complexes immunoprecipitated by the anti-FLAG antibody from protein extracts of transgenic plants coexpressing the FLAG-tagged WRKY18 protein, and a MYC-tagged WRKY protein generated positive interactions to the anti-MYC antisera. By contrast, the immunoprecipitations from protein extracts of transgenic plants expressing the FLAG-tagged WRKY18 protein and a MYC-tagged WRKY18(ΔLZ) or yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) produced no cross-reactivity to the antisera (Figure 4C). These results support in vivo interactions of WRKY18 protein with itself and with WRKY40 and WRKY60. A number of WRKY proteins have been shown to bind the TTGACC/T sequence (W-box) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). WRKY18 has also been shown to bind W-box sequences in vitro (CITATION). To test the DNA binding activities of WRKY40 and WRKY60, we generated recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli and tested each for in vitro binding activity to a DNA molecule with a W-box sequence (Figure 5A ). When the same amount of WRKY18 and WRKY40 was used in these binding assays, the intensities of the retarded bands were substantially higher with WRKY40 than with WRKY18 (Figure 5B). This result suggested that WRKY40 had a higher binding activity than WRKY18. Interestingly, when WRKY60 was tested for binding activity with the same DNA molecule as probe, we observed no retarded band in the gel retardation assays (Figure 5B). In fact, even when the level of the recombinant WRKY60 was increased five times higher than that of WRKY18 and WRKY40, we still observed no visible retarded band (data not shown). Thus, the recombinant WRKY60 showed little in vitro DNA binding to the W-box–containing DNA molecule. [[FIGURE]] Since the three WRKY proteins are likely to form both homocomplexes and heterocomplexes, we reasoned that they might also recognize composite DNA sequences containing more than one W-box. To test this possibility, we synthesized a series of oligo DNA molecules containing two W-box sequences separated by various numbers of nucleotides (Figure 6A ). As shown in Figure 6B, combining WRKY18 and WRKY40 in the binding reactions generally produced much higher intensities of the retarded bands than the single WRKY18 or WRKY40 protein. Thus, interactions between WRKY18 and WRKY40 appeared to enhance their DNA binding activity. [[FIGURE]] WRKY60 alone had little DNA binding activities for W-box sequences. Mixing WRKY60 with WRKY18 did not alter DNA binding activities for a number of DNA sequences containing two W-boxes arranged in various spacings (Figure 6C). However, substantial enhancement of DNA binding activity of WRKY18 was observed by WRKY60 for a DNA molecule with two direct repeats of W-boxes spaced by three nucleotides (Figure 6C). This result suggests that interaction of WRKY18 and WRKY60 selectively enhances their DNA binding activity to DNA molecules containing W-boxes arranged in a specific manner. By contrast, when WRKY40 was mixed with WRKY60, less DNA binding of WRKY40 was observed (Figure 6D). Thus, WRKY60 differentially affected the DNA binding activity of WRKY18 and WRKY40. The wrky18-1 and wrky60-1 insertion mutants obtained from the Salk T-DNA populations (CITATION) have a T-DNA insertion within the first exon of their respective genes (Figure 7A ). The wrky40-1 mutant, obtained from Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory gene and enhancer trap lines (CITATION), contains a Ds transposon inserted within the second exon of WRKY40 (Figure 7A). In wild-type plants, WRKY18, WRKY40, and WRKY60 transcripts of expected sizes accumulated to significant levels after infiltration with a virulent strain of P. syringae (Figure 7B). In the insertion mutants, no transcripts of expected sizes were detected after the pathogen infection (Figure 7B). No obvious abnormal phenotypes in plant growth or development were displayed by any of these mutants. Double and triple mutants were generated through genetic crossing and progeny screening by PCR genotyping. From the segregating populations derived from the genetic crossings, we observed that homozygous single, double, and triple mutants appeared at rates similar to the expected ratios, further supporting that mutations of these genes had no significant effect on plant growth and reproduction. RNA gel blot analysis indicated that no transcripts of expected sizes for these genes were detected in their respective homozygous double mutants and the homozygous triple mutant (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To examine the roles of these three WRKY genes in plant defense, we first analyzed the mutant plants for response to a virulent strain of PstDC3000. As shown in Figure 8A , the homozygous wrky18-1 mutant had an approximately twofold to threefold reduction in the growth of the bacterial pathogen, while the homozygous wrky40-1 and wrky60-1 mutants displayed no such reduction. The homozygous wrky40 wrky60 double mutant also had little difference in the bacterial growth from those in wild-type plants and their parental single mutants (Figure 8A). On the other hand, reduction in bacterial growth was observed in the homozygous wrky18 wrky60 (approximately fivefold) and wrky18 wrky40 (approximately sixfold) double mutants (Figure 8A). An even greater reduction (approximately ninefold) of bacterial growth was observed in the homozygous wrky18 wrky40 wrky60 triple mutant relative to the wild-type plants (Figure 8A). These results suggest that WRKY18, WRKY40, and WRKY60 function redundantly with a negative role in resistance to the hemibiotrophic bacterial pathogen. However, since only the double and triple mutants containing the wrky18 mutant allele displayed altered responses (Figure 8A), this functional redundancy is only partial, with WRKY18 playing a more important role than the other two WRKY genes. [[FIGURE]] Some of the mutants developed more chlorotic symptoms than wild-type plants after infection of the bacterial pathogen (Figure 8B). Surprisingly, the extent of chlorosis on the inoculated leaves was negatively correlated with bacterial growth. Thus, the wild type, wrky40, wrky60, and wrky40/60 mutants supported the highest bacterial growth and had the least chlorosis (Figure 8B). The wrky18 wrky40 and wrky18 wrky60 double mutants had modest levels of reduction in the bacterial growth and were accompanied with modest levels of chlorosis (Figure 8B). The wrky18 wrky40 wrky60 triple mutant had the largest reduction in bacterial growth and developed the most extensive chlorosis (Figure 8B). To determine how the reduction in the bacterial growth was associated with enhanced chlorosis in the mutants, we compared them with the npr1-3 mutant (CITATION) and transgenic nahG plants (CITATION). As shown in Figure 8A, the npr1-3 and transgenic nahG plants had increased growth (∼7- to 12-fold) of the bacterial pathogen relative to wild-type plants. When compared with the wrky18 wrky40 wrky60 triple mutant, the npr1-3 and transgenic nahG plants had ∼70- to 100-fold increase in the bacterial growth. The npr1-3 and transgenic nahG plants also developed severe disease symptoms when compared with the wild-type plants (Figure 8B). However, there was a marked difference between the symptoms on the npr1 and transgenic nahG plants and those on the WRKY mutants with reduced bacterial growth (Figure 8B). In the transgenic nahG plants, which had the highest bacterial growth (Figure 8A), the inoculated leaves first developed water-soaking symptoms followed by necrotic and wilting leaves with little chlorosis after the infection (Figure 8B). The npr1 mutant plants also developed extensively necrotic and slightly chlorotic symptoms, and the wild-type plants had mixed chlorotic and necrotic symptoms (Figure 8B). Inoculated leaves of the WRKY double and triple mutants with reduced bacterial growth, particularly the wrky18 wrky40 wrky60 triple mutant, had extensive yellowing with little necrotic collapsing or wilting (Figure 8B). We also analyzed the responses of the WRKY mutants to the necrotrophic fungal pathogen B. cinerea. Based on both visual inspection of the infected plants and quantification of biomass of the infecting fungal pathogen, the wrky60 and wrky40/60 mutants had no significant alteration in response to the pathogen, while the wrky18 mutant displayed a slight increase in susceptibility to the fungal pathogen (Figure 9 ). The wrky18 wrky40 and wrky18 wrky60 double mutants and the wrky18 wrky40 wrky60 triple mutant were also more susceptible to the fungal pathogen (Figure 9). Thus, the extent of susceptibility to the necrotrophic fungal pathogen was generally correlated with the extent of resistance to the hemibiotrophic bacterial pathogen P. syringae among these WRKY mutants. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the altered disease resistance of the mutants was due to disruption of the WRKY genes, we performed genetic complementation of the wrky18 wrky40 wrky60 triple mutant because of its strongest phenotypes in disease assays. Full-length cDNA clones for the three WRKY genes were placed behind their native promoters and transformed into the mutant. T1 transformants were identified through Basta selection and analyzed for expression of the WRKY transgenes and responses to P. syringae and B. cinerea. Transformation of the mutant with WRKY18 resulted in enhanced growth of P. syringae but reduced susceptibility to B. cinerea to the levels close to those in wild-type plants, while transformation of the same mutant with WRKY40 and WRKY60 led to partial restoration of the altered phenotypes in the pathogen assays (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). These results indicate that the altered disease resistance of the wrky18 wrky40 wrky60 mutant was attributed to mutations of the WRKY genes. Transgenic plants constitutively expressing WRKY18 are significantly smaller in size and have more serrated leaves than wild-type plants (CITATION). In this study, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants that constitutively expressed WRKY40 and WRKY60 under control of the CaMV 35S promoter (Figure 10A ). As shown in Figure 10B, the plants that constitutively express WRKY40 also exhibited more serrated leaves than wild-type plants, while transgenic 35S:WRKY60 plants exhibited no such altered phenotype. To determine the functional interactions between these WRKY genes, we generated transgenic plants constitutively expressing more than one WRKY gene through genetic crossing. The F1 progeny of homozygous transgenic 35S:WRKY18 plants crossed with homozygous transgenic 35S:WRKY60 plants expressed both WRKY18 and WRKY60 constitutively (Figure 10C). These plants were substantially smaller than parental plants and displayed less leaf serration than the transgenic 35S:WRKY18 parent plants (Figure 10B). Crossing transgenic 35S:WRKY18 plants with transgenic 35S:WRKY40 plants resulted in F1 plants that were either greatly stunted (Figure 10B) or unable to survive beyond a few weeks after germination. By contrast, the F1 progeny plants from the cross between transgenic 35S:WRKY40 plants and transgenic 35S:WRKY60 plants had sizes similar to those of the wild-type plants and exhibited no significantly altered leaf morphology (Figure 10B). We also attempted but failed to generate transgenic plants expressing all these three WRKY genes. Progeny expressing all three WRKY genes died within several weeks after germination, indicating that constitutive overexpression of all three WRKY genes is very detrimental. [[FIGURE]] To determine the impact of constitutive expression of the WRKY genes on plant disease resistance, we analyzed these transgenic plants for responses to P. syringae. As previously reported (CITATION), mature transgenic 35S:WRKY18 plants exhibited enhanced resistance to the bacterial pathogen as manifested by decreased bacterial growth when compared with the wild-type plants (Figure 11A ; CITATION). Transgenic plants constitutively expressing WRKY40 or WRKY60 showed no significant difference in the bacterial growth (Figure 11A). Unlike the transgenic WRKY18 plants that were more resistant to P. syringae, transgenic plants coexpressing WRKY18 and WRKY60 had bacterial growth significantly higher than that observed in wild-type plants (Figure 11A). In addition, transgenic plants coexpressing WRKY18 and WRKY40 supported 10 times more bacterial growth than wild-type plants (Figure 11A). Thus, constitutive overexpression of WRKY40 or WRKY60 antagonizes the positive effects of WRKY18 overexpression on plant resistance to the bacterial pathogen. [[FIGURE]] We also analyzed the responses of the transgenic overexpression plants to B. cinerea. Based on symptom development (Figure 11B) and quantification of biomass of the fungal pathogen (Figure 11C), constitutive expression or coexpression of WRKY40 or WRKY60 had no significant effect on plant response to the pathogen. Constitutive expression of WRKY18, on the other hand, resulted in a substantial increase in the susceptibility to the fungal pathogen (Figures 11B and 11C). Coexpression of WRKY40 or WRKY60 with WRKY18 resulted in further enhanced susceptibility to the fungal pathogen (Figures 11B and 11C). Thus, while constitutive overexpression and knockout mutations of some of these WRKY genes had opposite effects on response to P. syringae, both overexpression and disruption of some of the WRKY genes resulted in enhanced susceptibility to B. cinerea. The contrasting phenotypes of the loss-of-function WRKY mutants in resistance to P. syringae and B. cinerea may reflect an antagonistic relationship between SA- and JA/ET-regulated defense pathways. To test this possibility, we analyzed pathogen-induced expression of SA-regulated PR1 and JA-regulated PDF1.2 in these mutants. The wrky18 wrky40 wrky60 triple mutant had the highest level of PR1 transcripts that correlated with the lowest growth of the bacterial pathogen in the mutant, while the wrky18 wrky40 and wrky18 wrky60 double mutants had modest reduction in the bacterial growth and also had enhanced levels of PR1 transcripts relative to that in wild-type plants (Figures 8 and 12A ). Induction of PDF1.2 by P. syringae infection was low in the wild type and WRKY mutants (Figure 12A). B. cinerea also induced PR1 expression, but the expression levels of this SA-regulated gene were negatively correlated with the extents of resistance to the fungal pathogen among the wild type and WRKY mutants (Figures 9 and 12B). Expression of JA-regulated PDF1.2, on the other hand, was positively correlated with the resistance to B. cinerea (Figure 12B). The wrky18 wrky40 wrrky60 triple mutant, being most susceptible to the fungal pathogen, had the lowest level of PDF1.2 transcripts after infection by the fungal pathogen. The wrky18 wrky40 and wrky18 wrky60 double mutants also exhibited enhanced susceptibility to B. cinerea and had reduced expression of PDF1.2 as well when compared with wild-type plants. [[FIGURE]] Enhanced resistance to P. syringae in transgenic plants constitutively expressing WRKY18 is associated with constitutive expression of PR1 genes (Figure 10C). Coexpression of WRKY40 or WRKY60 rendered transgenic WRKY18 plants more susceptible to the bacterial pathogen and, at the same time, abolished the constitutive PR1 expression in the transgenic plants (Figure 10C). Pathogen infection did not further enhance PR1 expression in the transgenic WRKY18 plants (Figure 12C), as previously reported (CITATION). The levels of PR1 transcripts in transgenic plants expressing WRKY40 or WRKY60 were similar to those observed in the wild-type plants after infection by P. syringae (Figure 12C), consistent with their unaltered resistance to the bacterial pathogen (Figure 11A). On the other hand, pathogen-induced PR1 expression was substantially reduced in the transgenic plants coexpressing WRKY18 and WRKY60 or WRKY18 and WRKY40 (Figure 12C), consistent with their enhanced susceptibility to the bacterial pathogen (Figure 11A).
!~MM~! The [α-32P]dATP (>3000 Ci/mmol) was obtained from New England Nuclear; other common chemicals were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown in a growth chamber at 22°C with 150 μE m−2 s−1 light in a photoperiod of 12 h light and 12 h dark. The cDNA library was prepared from Arabidopsis plants harvested for 4 h after spraying with 2 mM SA. The library (in ZAP Express λ-vector from Stratagene) of 106 phages was screened using 32P-labeled PCR-amplified products with primers designed from the genomic sequences of the WRKY genes. The hybridization was performed in the buffer of 5× SSPE, 0.5% SDS, 5× Denhardt's solution, and 100 μg/mL salmon sperm DNA for 16 h at 55°C. The filters were washed three to four times for 30 min each with 0.5× SSPE and 0.5% SDS at 55°C. The phagemid for each isolated clone was obtained through in vivo excision according to the manufacturer's instructions. DNA sequencing was performed by the dideoxynucleotide chain-termination method at the Genomics Center of Purdue University. For RNA gel blot analysis of plant gene expression, Arabidopsis plants were treated and two fully expanded leaves from each plant were harvested at each time point for total RNA isolation using TRIZOL reagent (BRL Life Technologies). The RNA was separated on agarose (1.2%)–formaldehyde gels and blotted onto nylon membrane. Hybridization was performed using random-primed 32P-labeled DNA probes in PerfectHyb plus hybridization buffer (Sigma-Aldrich) overnight at 68°C. The membranes were washed at 68°C once in 2× SSC and 0.1% SDS for 5 min, twice in 0.5× SSC and 0.1% SDS, and twice in 0.1× SSC and 0.1% SDS. Onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cell layers were peeled and placed inside up on the Murashige and Skoog (MS) plates. Plasmid DNAs of appropriate fusion genes (0.5 μg) were introduced to the onion cells using a pneumatic particle gun (PDS 1000; DuPont). The condition of bombardment was vacuum of 28-inch Hg, helium pressure of 1100 or 1300 psi, and 6 cm of target distance using 1.1 μm of tungsten microcarriers. After bombardment, tissues were incubated on the MS plates for 24 h at 22°C. Samples were observed directly or transferred to glass slides. WRKY18-interacting proteins were identified using a Gal4-based two-hybrid system as described by the manufacturer (Stratagene). The Arabidopsis HybridZAP-2.1 two-hybrid cDNA library was prepared from Arabidopsis plants harvested for 4 h after spraying with 2 mM SA. The DNA fragments corresponding to different WRKY proteins were amplified by PCR and confirmed by sequencing. Overlapping PCR as previously described (CITATION) was used to generate WRKY deletion constructs according to the following WRKY protein amino acids: HRR of WRKY18, 126 to 134; LZ of WRKY18, 44 to 80; LZ of WRKY40, 30 to 64; LZ of WRKY60, 42 to 76. The fragments were inserted into the pBD-Gal4Cam plasmid to generate bait plasmids. The HybridZAP cDNA library and corresponding bait plasmids were used to transform yeast strain YRG-2. Yeast transformants were plated onto the selection medium lacking Trp, Leu, and His. β-Galactosidase activity was assayed using o-nitrophenyl-β-d-galactopyranose as substrate. Plasmid DNA was recovered from positive yeast colonies, transformed into Escherichia coli strain DH5α, and isolated for DNA sequencing. To generate the FLAG-tagged WRKY18, a WRKY18 cDNA fragment was generated by PCR amplification and subsequently subcloned into a tagging plasmid behind the FLAG tag sequence. The tagged gene was subcloned into pTA7002 behind the steroid-inducible Gal4 promoter (CITATION) and transformed into Arabidopsis plants. To analyze expression of the tagged transgene, transformants were treated with 5 μM dexamethasone, a steroid, and leaves were harvested 24 h later for RNA gel blot and protein gel blot analyses. MYC-tagged WRKY18, WRKY40, WRKY60, WRKY18(ΔLZ), and YFP constructs were generated using a similar approach, subcloned into the plant transformation vector pOCA30, and transformed into Arabidopsis plants. Transformants expressing the tagged transgenes were identified by protein gel blotting using anti-MYC-peroxidase (Invitrogen). Plants expressing FLAG-tagged WRKY18 and a MYC-tagged protein were generated through genetic crossing or double transformation and identified through protein gel blotting using epitope-recognizing antibodies after treatment with 5 μM dexamethasone. Protein extracts (100 μg) from control plants and transgenic plants expressing FLAG-tagged WRKY18 and a MYC-tagged protein were incubated with the anti-FLAG epitope antibody at 4°C for 5 h on a shaker. Protein A-agarose (50 μL packed volume) was added and incubated for another 2 h. Agarose-protein complexes were collected by brief centrifugation. After washing three times with a wash buffer (10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 140 mM NaCl, 0.5% Triton X-100, and 10 μg/mL phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride), the protein complexes were boiled for 5 min in 1× SDS-PAGE sample buffer. After centrifugation, the supernatant was separated by SDS-PAGE, and MYC-tagged WRKY protein in the immunoprecipitated FLAG-tagged WRKY18 complexes were detected with protein gel blot analysis using anti-MYC-peroxidase (Invitrogen). Preparation of recombinant WRKY proteins and DNA binding assays were performed as previously described (CITATION). The wrky18-1 (Salk_093916) and wrky60-1 (Salk_120706) T-DNA insertion mutants were identified from the Salk Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion population (CITATION) and are in the Columbia (Col) ecotype. The wrky40 mutant was a Ds transposon insertion mutant obtained from Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory gene trap lines (CITATION) and is in the Landsberg erecta (Ler) background. Confirmation of the insertions was done by performing PCR using a combination of a border primer of T-DNA (5′-GCTTGCTGCAACTCTCTCAG-3′) or Ds transposon (5′-ACCCGACCGGATCGTATCGGT-3′) and a gene-specific primer (W18, 5′-TCATAGAAATTGAAGGGATACAAAAA-3′; W40, 5′-CGGAGATGCTAACTTTGATGTG-3′; W60, 5′-GCTGAAGCCGAGACTTCTCTT-3′). Another PCR was performed to identify plants homozygous for the insertions using the above gene-specific primers and respective reverse primers (W18R, 5′-TGATTTTTCATTTTCGTTAAAGC-3′; W40R, 5′-GGAGCACAAGCACATTTGAA-3′; W60R, 5′-ATTTTCCACCCAAATCGTCA-3′). To remove additional insertions or mutations from the mutant, backcrosses to wild-type plants were performed, and plants homozygous for the insertion were again identified. Since the wrky40 mutant was in the Ler ecotype, it was backcrossed to Col wild-type plants three times, and the progeny plants from each cross were genotyped with a collection of 22 simple sequence length polymorphism markers spaced evenly over the entire genome in order to identify plants that contained the most Col genetic background. Double and triple mutants were generated from genetic crosses of single mutants and identified through PCR genotyping. To generate WRKY genes for genetic complementation, their cDNA clones were placed behind their native promoter fragments (∼1.2 kb) that were amplified by PCR. The genes were subcloned into a modified plant transformation vector pKMB (CITATION) and directly transformed into the wrky18 wrky40 wrky60 triple mutants. T1 transformants were identified based on their resistance to spraying with 1.384% (v/v) Finale (Farnam Companies) in soil and used for analysis of disease resistance. The transgenic line constitutively expressing WRKY18 (W18Δ-1) has been previously described (CITATION) and was used in this study. The cDNA fragments that contain the full coding sequences and 3′ untranslated regions of WRKY40 or WRKY60 were excised from the cloning plasmid and subcloned into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens transformation vector pOCA30 (CITATION) in the sense orientation behind the CaMV 35S promoter. Arabidopsis transformation was performed by the floral dip procedure (CITATION). The seeds were collected from the infiltrated plants and selected in MS medium containing 50 μg/mL kanamycin. Kanamycin-resistant plants were transferred to soil 9 d later and grown in a growth chamber. Pathogen inoculations were performed by infiltration of leaves of 6 to 10 plants for each treatment with the PstDC3000 strain that contains the pVSP61 kanamycin-resistant empty plasmid vector (OD600 = 0.001 in 10 mM MgCl2). Inoculated leaves were harvested 3 DAI and homogenized in 10 mM MgCl2. Diluted leaf extracts were plated on King's B medium supplemented with rifampicin (100 μg/mL) and kanamycin (25 μg/mL) and incubated at 25°C for 2 d before counting the colony-forming units. Botrytis cinerea was grown on 2xV8 agar as described previously (CITATION). To infect plants, conidia were collected from 10-d-old culture, and the spore density was adjusted in Sabouraud Maltose Broth and sprayed using a Preval sprayer. Inoculated plants were maintained at high humidity with a transparent cover in a growth chamber, and symptom development was observed 3 to 4 d after the inoculation. Biomass of the fungal pathogen was quantified by RNA gel blotting of total RNA isolated from inoculated plants. A Botrytis β-tubulin gene fragment amplified from the Botrytis genome DNA was used as a probe as described previously (CITATION). Arabidopsis Genome Initiative numbers for the genes discussed in this article are as follows: WRKY18, At4g31800; WRKY40, At1g80840; WRKY60, At2g25000; PR1, At2g14610; PDF1.2, At5g44420. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Quantitative Assays of the Effect of the Leu Zipper Motif on WRKY Protein Interactions. Supplemental Figure 2. Genetic Complementation of the wrky18 wrky 40 wrky60 Mutant.
