!~ABS~! FZO is a dynamin-related membrane-remodeling protein that mediates fusion between mitochondrial outer membranes in animals and fungi. We identified a single FZO-like protein in Arabidopsis, FZL, a new plant-specific member of the dynamin superfamily. FZL is targeted to chloroplasts and associated with thylakoid and envelope membranes as punctate structures. fzl knockout mutants have abnormalities in chloroplast and thylakoid morphology, including disorganized grana stacks and alterations in the relative proportions of grana and stroma thylakoids. Overexpression of FZL-GFP also conferred defects in thylakoid organization. Mutation of a conserved residue in the predicted FZL GTPase domain abolished both the punctate localization pattern and ability of FZL-GFP to complement the fzl mutant phenotype. FZL defines a new protein class within the dynamin superfamily of membrane-remodeling GTPases that regulates organization of the thylakoid network in plants. Notably, FZL levels do not affect mitochondrial morphology or ultrastructure, suggesting that mitochondrial morphology in plants is regulated by an FZO-independent mechanism.
!~RES~! FZL (At1g03160) was identified by a blast search of the Arabidopsis protein database (www.arabidopsis.org/Blast) using Drosophila FZO as a query sequence. The FZL cDNA was amplified from Arabidopsis by RT-PCR and sequenced. The results showed that the annotated FZL amino acid sequence lacked 270 residues at the C terminus. A blast search of the NCBI database (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast) confirmed that FZL shares similarity with FZO-related mitochondrial fusion proteins. FZL encodes a protein of 912 aa (FIG-REF A) and is conserved in many photosynthetic eukaryotes, including rice and Chlamydomonas (data not shown). FZL is most similar to FZO in its putative GTPase domain (FIG-REF B). The FZL sequence also predicts two TM domains separated by a short linker and two coiled-coil domains flanking the predicted TM domains. This domain arrangement is very similar to that of FZO (CITATION) (FIG-REF A). Interestingly, FZL was predicted by targetp (CITATION) (www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP) to have a chloroplast transit peptide (score, 0.871; reliability class, 2) comprising the first 54 amino acid residues at the N terminus (FIG-REF A), suggesting that FZL may be targeted to the chloroplast in vivo. Phylogenetic analysis was performed to investigate the relationship between FZL and other members of the dynamin superfamily (FIG-REF C). Because the sequences are divergent, only the GTPase domains were aligned for the analysis. FZL and its homolog in rice formed a branch near the clade bearing FZO (FIG-REF C). These data suggest that FZL and FZO, or at least their GTPase domains, may have arisen from an ancestral gene in the common ancestor of plants and animals. We obtained two FZL T-DNA insertional mutants (CITATION) (FIG-REF A) from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Columbus, OH). The insertion in Salk_033745 is in the region encoding the GTPase domain. Salk_009051 has two tandem insertions, one in an intron between the exons encoding the second TM domain and a second in the 3′ UTR (data not shown). Both fzl alleles conferred the same phenotypes. The leaves were visibly pale, and flowering was delayed by 5–7 days compared with the Col-0 WT (FIG-REF B). Mature mesophyll cells in the fzl knockout lines contained fewer, larger chloroplasts than in WT, and these were heterogeneous in size (FIG-REF C and D). This phenotype was more pronounced in older than in younger leaves (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Mesophyll cell chloroplasts in WT and fzl plants also differed ultrastructurally. In WT, the lamellae comprising the grana thylakoids were similar in length and evenly stacked, and stroma thylakoids spanning the grana were frequent (FIG-REF F and G). In fzl mutants, grana lamellae were less uniform in length and stacked in a staggered fashion, giving rise to a disorganized thylakoid array (FIG-REF H and I). Stroma thylakoids appeared less abundant than in WT. Although the mean number of lamellae/granum did not differ significantly between WT and fzl, grana were longer in fzl than in WT (FIG-REF F–I, Table 1, and Fig. 6, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). In contrast, stroma thylakoids in fzl were similar in length to those in WT but constituted a smaller proportion of the total thylakoid network (Table 1). Intriguingly, some grana lamellae were inflated at their margins, and vesicle-like structures were frequently observed (FIG-REF I). Quantitative analysis of thylakoid morphological traits To confirm that the mutant phenotypes resulted from disruption of FZL, the FZL coding region fused to GFP at its 3′ end was expressed in fzl mutant plants under control of the FZL promoter. The mutant phenotypes (including the pale leaves, delayed flowering, and chloroplast morphology and ultrastructure defects) were largely rescued by the transgene (FIG-REF B, E, J, and K). However, the mean lengths of grana and stroma thylakoids were lower in the complementation lines than in WT, although their relative proportions were restored (Table 1). These results reveal a role for FZL in regulating thylakoid organization and chloroplast morphology. The complementation results also demonstrated that the GFP fusion protein encoded by the transgene was functional. To determine whether the predicted transit peptide of FZL (tpFZL) mediates chloroplast targeting, the coding sequence from the 3rd to the 67th amino acid residue was fused to GFP. The resulting transgene, 35S-tpFZL-GFP, was expressed in WT Arabidopsis plants on a CaMV 35S promoter. In mesophyll cells of transgenic plants, the GFP signal was coincident with chlorophyll autofluorescence, indicating its association with chloroplasts (FIG-REF A–C). In plants expressing a control GFP construct lacking tpFZL, the GFP remained in the cytosol (FIG-REF D–F). Only the chlorophyll autofluorescence could be detected in WT plants (FIG-REF G–I). These results confirmed the prediction of targetp that FZL has a functional chloroplast transit peptide. [[FIGURE]] To assess the in vivo localization of FZL, we took advantage of fzl plants that had been complemented by the functional FZL-GFP transgene (FIG-REF B, E, J, and K). Expression levels varied in different transgenic lines as indicated by visibly detectable differences in the GFP signal (FIG-REF K and L) and the amount of GFP-tagged fusion protein on immunoblots (FIG-REF O). In all cases, however, FZL-GFP exhibited a punctate pattern of localization (FIG-REF K–N). At lower levels of expression (FIG-REF K and O, lanes 3 and 4), FZL-GFP puncta were most evident at the chloroplast periphery, although very faint puncta could be detected in the organelle interior. At higher levels (FIG-REF L and O, lanes 7 and 8), small puncta were clearly visible throughout the chloroplast (FIG-REF M and N). The association of FZL-GFP with the chloroplast is consistent with the presence of a chloroplast transit peptide (FIG-REF A–C). On rare occasions, FZL-GFP puncta that appeared separated from the chloroplasts could also be observed (Fig. 7, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). We investigated the subplastidic localization of FZL-GFP by carrying out a series of protease protection and fractionation assays using chloroplasts isolated from the transgenic fzl plants complemented by FZL-GFP. In the first set of experiments we treated intact chloroplasts with the protease thermolysin, which cannot penetrate the outer envelope, or trypsin, which penetrates the outer but not the inner envelope (CITATION), and we used immunoblotting with anti-GFP antibodies to determine the susceptibility of FZL-GFP to proteolysis. As a stromal marker we used Tic110, an inner-envelope protein facing the stroma (CITATION). As an intermembrane space marker we used a C-terminal GFP fusion to ARC6, an inner-envelope protein whose C terminus faces the intermembrane space (CITATION). The marker proteins behaved as expected (FIG-REF A); ARC6-GFP was susceptible to trypsin but not thermolysin, whereas Tic110 was protected from both proteases. Like Tic110, FZL-GFP was fully protected from both proteases (FIG-REF A Left). If chloroplasts were lysed before protease treatment, however, FZL-GFP was degraded (FIG-REF A Right), indicating that protection from thermolysin and trypsin was due to inaccessibility of the proteases to FZL-GFP and not to protein folding. These results show that FZL-GFP is targeted to the stromal side of the chloroplast envelope. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether FZL is a membrane protein, the isolated chloroplasts were lysed in hypotonic solution and separated into pellet and soluble fractions by centrifugation. FZL-GFP and the inner-envelope marker Tic110 (CITATION) were both found in the pellet fraction by immunoblotting whereas the soluble stromal marker protein FtsZ1 (CITATION) was detected mainly in the soluble fraction (FIG-REF B Left). FZL-GFP could be solubilized by treatment of the pellet fraction with Triton X-100 (FIG-REF B Right). These data confirm that FZL is a membrane protein as predicted by sequence analysis (FIG-REF A). To determine which chloroplast membrane fraction contained FZL-GFP, membranes from hypotonically lysed chloroplasts were fractionated into thylakoid and envelope fractions (CITATION). Immunoblot analysis indicated that FZL-GFP was present in both fractions (FIG-REF C). As controls, Tic110 and the thylakoid marker LHCb were detected only in the envelope and thylakoid fractions, respectively. Together, the membrane fractionation and protease protection experiments provide evidence that FZL is a chloroplast membrane protein distributed between the envelope and thylakoid membranes. Furthermore, because FZL-GFP is protected from trypsin as well as thermolysin (FIG-REF A), the results indicate that the fraction of FZL associated with the envelope is in the inner-envelope membrane and that the bulk of the protein faces the stroma. We compared chloroplast morphology, thylakoid ultrastructure, and GFP labeling patterns in fzl plants expressing FZL-GFP at different levels. When FZL-GFP was expressed at a level that complemented the chloroplast morphology and ultrastructure phenotypes of fzl mutants (FIG-REF E, J, and K and FIG-REF O, lanes 5 and 6), the GFP signal was detected primarily in a few punctate structures near the organelle periphery (FIG-REF K), although fractionation also showed FZL-GFP in the thylakoids (FIG-REF C). At lower FZL-GFP levels (FIG-REF O, lanes 3 and 4), partial rescue of both chloroplast morphology and ultrastructure phenotypes was observed, although GFP fluorescence was not readily detectable (data not shown). At higher levels (FIG-REF O, lanes 7 and 8) the chloroplast morphology defects were fully rescued (red autofluorescence in FIG-REF L), but the distribution between grana and stroma thylakoids was perturbed and very few completely unstacked lamellae were observed (Table 1 and FIG-REF L and M). These overexpression lines had more GFP-labeled punctate structures at the chloroplast periphery and in the organelle interior (FIG-REF L–N), were also slightly more pale than WT, and flowered a few days earlier (data not shown). Overall, the number and size of GFP-labeled punctate structures increased with increasing FZL-GFP expression level. Together with the abnormalities observed in the fzl mutants, these experiments indicate that the level of FZL influences the morphology and organization of thylakoids. Lysine 362 in the predicted GTPase domain of FZL (FIG-REF B, arrow) is conserved in the active sites of many GTPases (CITATION, CITATION). Mutation of the equivalent residue in FZO has been shown to abolish its function (CITATION, CITATION). To investigate the importance of the predicted GTPase domain for FZL function, we mutated lysine 362 in FZL-GFP to methionine to produce FZL(K362M)-GFP and expressed the transgene in fzl mutant and WT plants under control of the FZL promoter. Immunoblotting showed that FZL(K362M)-GFP accumulated to levels comparable to those of FZL-GFP (FIG-REF A). However, FZL(K362M)-GFP failed to rescue the fzl chloroplast morphology defects at any level of expression (FIG-REF B). Furthermore, the mutant protein could not be detected in punctate structures in either the fzl or WT backgrounds (FIG-REF B and C). These findings suggest that GTP binding and/or hydrolysis is required both for FZL function and for its punctate pattern of localization and that the punctate localization reflects an important property of FZL function. [[FIGURE]] In yeast and animals, FZO mediates fusion of mitochondria. However, mitochondrial morphology and ultrastructure in fzl mutants and FZL-GFP overexpressors were similar to those in WT (Fig. 8, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). To further investigate whether FZL influences mitochondrial morphology, we crossed fzl mutants with WT plants expressing a mitochondrion-targeted form of GFP (CITATION) and compared the morphology of the mitochondria in the F2 progeny using fluorescence microscopy. We found no obvious differences between fzl and WT segregants with regard to mitochondrial size or morphology.
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was used as WT for all experiments. The FZL T-DNA insertion mutants Salk_033745 and Salk_009051 (CITATION) were ordered from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. The mutations are recessive, and homozygous fzl segregants were identified phenotypically. T-DNA insertion sites were verified by PCR and sequencing. Plant growth and transformation were performed as in ref. CITATION. Transgenic plants were selected by spraying with the herbicide Finale (AgrEvo Environmental Health, Montvale, NJ). Leaf cell phenotypes were analyzed as described (CITATION). GFP was detected in fresh leaf tissue as described in ref. CITATION or by confocal laser scanning microscopy with a Zeiss pascal5.0 system (see Supporting Methods, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). For transmission electron microscopy of chloroplasts, 3-week-old leaf tissue was fixed as described in ref. CITATION. Postfixation, embedding, serial-sectioning of 70-nm-thin sections, and image capture were performed as in ref. CITATION. Images were processed with photoshop imaging software (Adobe Systems, San Jose, CA). The number and length of stroma and grana thylakoids falling on transect lines 1,050 nm on both sides of a line bisecting the long axis of a chloroplast were measured (n = 15 chloroplasts each for WT, fzl, and FZL complemented and overexpression lines: one chloroplast per cell, five chloroplasts per leaf, one leaf per plant, three plants). Stroma and grana thylakoids were defined as consisting of one or more than one lamella, respectively (Fig. 6). Number of lamellae per granum refers to the largest number of overlapping lamellae within the granum touching the transect (Fig. 6). Means were compared with Kruskal–Wallis one-way ANOVA on ranks by using sigmastat software (version 2.03; SPSS, Chicago). Primers used for RT-PCR amplification of FZL cDNA were 5′-CACAGACGAAGGTATCTCACTCTC-3′ and 5′-TGTCAAGAAGGGAAAACCCGAC-3′. Amplified cDNAs were subcloned into Bluescript KS+ (Stratagene) before sequencing. The FZL amino acid sequence was deduced from the cDNA sequence. targetp (CITATION) was used to predict the subcellular location of FZL. The TM domains of FZL were predicted by tmhmm (http://workbench.sdsc.edu) and tmpred (www.ch.embnet.org/software/TMPRED_form.html). Coiled-coil domains were predicted with paircoil (CITATION). The sequence alignment shown in FIG-REF B and phylogenetic analysis were performed by using the program clustalw (CITATION). pCAMBIA-1302-bar was generated by replacing the hygromycin-resistance marker in pCAMBIA-1302 (Cambia, Canberra, Australia) with a gene from pCAMBIA-3300 encoding resistance to the herbicide glufosinate. The coding sequence corresponding to amino acids 3–67 of FZL, which includes the predicted transit peptide, was inserted into pCAMBIA-1302-bar in frame with GFP to produce 35S-tpFZL-GFP (see Supporting Methods). 35S-tpFZL-GFP, or pCAMBIA-1302-bar as a negative control, was introduced into WT plants. GFP and chlorophyll were detected by fluorescence microscopy. An FZL genomic fragment, including ≈740 bp of the 5′-flanking DNA, was amplified by PCR and ligated into pCAMBIA-1302-bar to produce FZL-GFP (see Supporting Methods). The construct was expressed in the Salk_009051 fzl mutant. T1 plants were analyzed by microscopy and by immunoblotting (CITATION) with monoclonal GFP antibodies (Molecular Probes, catalog no. A-11121) diluted 1:8,000. Chloroplast isolation, protease protection assays, and immunoblotting were performed as described (CITATION, CITATION). Envelope and thylakoid fractions were prepared as in ref. CITATION (see Supporting Methods). Crude proteins representing ≈4 μg of chlorophyll (CITATION) in each lane were analyzed by SDS/PAGE, and immunoblotting. Tic110 and FtsZ1 antibodies were used as described (CITATION, CITATION). GFP and LHCb antibodies were used at dilutions of 1:10,000 and 1:20,000, respectively.  FZL(K362M)-GFP was produced by PCR and subcloning into PCAMBIA-1302-bar (see Supporting Methods) and expressed in fzl (Salk_009051) and WT plants.
