!~ABS~! A challenging task in the study of the secretory pathway is the identification and localization of new proteins to increase our understanding of the functions of different organelles. Previous proteomic studies of the endomembrane system have been hindered by contaminating proteins, making it impossible to assign proteins to organelles. Here we have used the localization of organelle proteins by the isotope tagging technique in conjunction with isotope tags for relative and absolute quantitation and 2D liquid chromatography for the simultaneous assignment of proteins to multiple subcellular compartments. With this approach, the density gradient distributions of 689 proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana were determined, enabling confident and simultaneous localization of 527 proteins to the endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus, vacuolar membrane, plasma membrane, or mitochondria and plastids. This parallel analysis of endomembrane components has enabled protein steady-state distributions to be determined. Consequently, genuine organelle residents have been distinguished from contaminating proteins and proteins in transit through the secretory pathway.
!~RES~! Protein localization by LOPIT is based on the principle that proteins belonging to the same organelle cofractionate after equilibrium density gradient centrifugation of subcellular membranes (CITATION). Here, we have increased the resolution and protein coverage of the LOPIT technique by quantifying distributions of protein within a gradient by using iTRAQ labeling in conjunction with 2D liquid chromatography of peptides followed by tandem MS. iTRAQ enables relative protein levels in four samples to be determined in a single MS experiment. In this case, two overlapping four-plex iTRAQ comparisons were carried out across the region on iodixanol density gradients where the ER, Golgi apparatus, vacuolar membrane, and PM were enriched (determined by Western blotting; data not shown; also see Fig. 4, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site, for a scheme of the experimental design). The iTRAQ reagent has an N-hydroxysuccinimide ester group, which reacts with peptide N termini and the primary amines of the C-terminal lysines of tryptic peptides (CITATION). The iTRAQ reagent also contains a balance (carbonyl) group and a pendant reporter group (N-methylpiperazine). The distribution of13C, 15N, and 18O between the reporter group and balance group differs in the four versions of the iTRAQ reagent such that the reporter group masses differ successively by 1 Da. When an iTRAQ-labeled peptide is subjected to collision-induced dissociation, the iTRAQ tag fragments between the reporter group, balance group, and the peptide. The balance group is uncharged and, therefore, is not present in product ion spectra. The reporter group, however, retains a proton and the resulting reporter ions derived from the four versions of the iTRAQ reagent appear at 114.1 m/z, 115.1 m/z, 116.1 m/z, and 117.1 m/z in each product ion spectrum. Peptide quantitation is achieved by comparing the peak areas of these reporter ions. In this study, the reporter ion areas indicate relative protein levels in the four iTRAQ-labeled density gradient fractions (Fig. 5 A–F, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). To test the reproducibility of the LOPIT approach and to improve the accuracy of protein localization, two independent density gradient separations of Arabidopsis membranes were performed and two iTRAQ comparisons were performed on each. Two-dimensional liquid chromatography of peptides followed by tandem MS analysis of the iTRAQ-labeled samples resulted in the identification of 954 proteins in the first experiment (each with a minimum of two distinct, significant peptides) and 994 in the second experiment. The 689 proteins identified as being common to both experiments were used in subsequent analyses. Each protein was quantified in all four iTRAQ-labeling experiments. Quantitation of peptides common to two or more homologous proteins could lead to misleading localization results, particularly if the proteins reside in different organelles. Only peptides unique to a single identified protein therefore were quantified. For proteins where two or more peptides were quantified, the percentage standard deviation (PSD) of the iTRAQ ratios was calculated as a measure of technical error. The average PSD for the first experiment was 16.0% and for the second experiment 17.3%. The relative iTRAQ reporter ion intensities indicate distributions of individual proteins in the density gradient. Reporter ion spectra for known vacuolar membrane, ER, PM, mitochondrial, and Golgi apparatus proteins are shown in Fig. 5 A–E. The profiles of these marker proteins are clearly distinct, demonstrating that residents of these organelles can be distinguished despite the fact that pure organelle preparations were not obtained. Localization of previously undescribed proteins is achieved by matching their profiles to the marker profiles. For example, the uncharacterized protein At1g31850 (GMT1; Fig. 5F) exhibits a very similar profile to the Golgi apparatus marker gtl6 (Fig. 5E) and therefore is most likely localized within the Golgi apparatus. For each of the 689 identified proteins, six reporter ion ratios were derived from each of the two four-plex comparisons from each of the two experiments, yielding 24 data points for each protein (reporter ion ratios and normalized reporter ion areas in Table 2 and Table 3, respectively, which are published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). Clearly, manual analysis of such a data set is not possible; therefore, principle components analysis (PCA) was used as a data reduction tool and to identify patterns within it. Initially, PCA was performed on the two repeat experiments independently to confirm that protein clustering was reproducible (Fig. 6, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). The data from the two experiments were then combined and PCA performed on the entire data set, resulting in the reduction of the combined data set to a two-variable scores plot (FIG-REF). The principal component scores for each protein describe the position of that protein in relation to these two new axes or principal components and the other proteins contributing to the model. The PCA scores plot represents a map of all 689 proteins, within which proteins with similar density gradient distributions and, therefore, localizations, are clustered. Annotation of 27 proteins with known localizations in Arabidopsis (organelle marker proteins) revealed the presence of five main clusters, corresponding to mitochondria/plastids (which were not resolved from each other within the density gradient used in this study), Golgi apparatus, ER, PM, and vacuolar membrane (FIG-REF and Table 1). A literature survey was conducted to annotate a further 121 proteins with predicted localizations, based on sequence homology or the presence of motifs characteristic of a specific localization (Tables 1–3). The PCA positions of these proteins were examined. The predicted localizations of 115 of these proteins were confirmed based on their positions on the PCA scores plot relative to the organelle marker proteins (FIG-REF and Table 2). The localizations of the remaining six proteins [CslE1 (At1g55850), CesA1 (At4g32410), CesA3 (At5g05170), COBL7 (At4g16120), vATPase V0a (At2g28520), and a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored protein (At1g29980)] are discussed below. [[FIGURE]] Summary of localization results PCA alone is not suitable for assigning proteins to organelles because it is not possible to determine the positions and the shapes of the boundaries that define the organelle clusters. Consequently, partial least squares discriminant analysis (PLS-DA), which is a technique for classifying observations in multidimensional data sets based on training sets of observations with known class memberships, was used. The organelle markers and the confirmed organelle proteins (142 proteins; Table 1) were grouped into five classes, corresponding to the ER, Golgi apparatus, PM, vacuolar membrane, and mitochondria/plastids, and were used to build a PLS-DA model (Q 2 = 0.602). This model predicted the class memberships of the identified proteins. The classification was further cross referenced by checking the positions of the classified proteins on the PCA scores plot. Based on their high similarity to the PCA scores and the reporter ion profiles of the organelle marker proteins, 29 proteins were manually reclassified at this point (marked with an asterisk in Tables 2 and 3). Using this approach, 527 proteins in total were assigned subcellular localizations to the ER (182), Golgi apparatus (89), PM (92), vacuolar membrane (CITATION), or mitochondria/plastids (140) (FIG-REF and Tables 1–3). Density gradient distributions of proteins assigned to the five classes are shown in Fig. 5. Proteins assigned to the same class have very similar profiles, thus demonstrating the validity of the multivariate classification approach. The 162 proteins that were not classified could belong to organelles that were not included in the PLS-DA training set, such as the prevacuolar compartment. The nonclassified proteins also could represent proteins localized to multiple compartments. The density gradient distributions and, therefore, PCA scores of these proteins are combinations of the density gradient profiles of the different organelles in which they reside. For example, if 95% of a protein was targeted to the ER and 5% to the Golgi apparatus, then the protein probably would cluster with the ER markers. However, a protein distributed equally between the ER and Golgi apparatus may exhibit an intermediate distribution and would most likely be unclassified after PLS-DA analysis. The possibility of the intermediate distribution matching another organelle profile cannot be excluded; however, there is no evidence to suggest that codistribution has occurred in this study. The distinct iTRAQ profiles and PCA scores of the ER, Golgi apparatus, PM, vacuolar membrane, and mitochondria/plastid markers confirmed the validity of the LOPIT technique for distinguishing proteins resident in these organelles (FIG-REF). To further confirm the utility of the LOPIT approach, localizations of previously uncharacterized proteins representing targeting predictions to each of Golgi apparatus, ER, vacuolar membrane, and PM were verified by microscopy. In all, 22 proteins were fused to GFP and the fusion proteins expressed in Nicotiana tabacum leaves (ref. CITATION; see also Table 4 and Supporting Methods, which are published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). The subcellular distribution of each was then determined by confocal microscopy (FIG-REF and Table 2; see also Fig. 7, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). Sixteen of the GFP fusions were targeted as predicted, two were not targeted as predicted, and targeting of four fusions was inconclusive because although there was GFP expression, the subcellular structure marked was not assignable to a distinct organelle. GFP fusions to proteins predicted to target the ER and Golgi apparatus were shown to colocalize with known markers for these organelles as further demonstration of the LOPIT approach (FIG-REF). The false positive rate of localization of proteins to organelles by using the LOPIT approach from this relatively small data set thus could be estimated at ≈10% (2 of 18). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana callus cultures were established and maintained as described in ref. CITATION. Membranes were prepared and fractionated by using self-generating iodixanol density gradients (CITATION). Two independent membrane preparations were performed. Density gradient fractions (500 μl) were carbonate washed (800 μl of 160 mM Na2CO3 at 4°C for 30 min). Membranes were pelleted by centrifugation (100,000 × g for 25 min), washed (1 ml H2O at 4°C) and repelleted (100,000 × g for 10 min). Membranes were solubilized in 100 μl of 25 mM triethylammonium bicarbonate (TEAB)/8 M urea/2% Triton X-100/0.1% SDS. Protein concentrations were determined by using the BCA Protein Assay kit (Pierce). Two four-plex iTRAQ comparisons (Applied Biosystems) were performed across the first 12 of the 20 fractions collected from each membrane preparation. Comparison A: Fraction 1 (least dense) was labeled with iTRAQ reagent 114, fraction 4 with 115, fraction 7 with 116, and fractions 11 and 12 (which were pooled to give comparable protein concentrations to the other three fractions) with 117. Comparison B: Fraction 2 was labeled with iTRAQ reagent 114, fraction 5 with 115, fraction 8 with 116, and fractions 11 and 12 with 117. Samples (100 μg of protein) were reduced [4 mM Tris(2-carboxyethyl)phosphine at 20°C for 1 h] and cysteines blocked [8 mM methyl methanethiosulfonate at 20°C for 10 min]. Samples were diluted (50 mM TEAB), such that the urea concentration was <1 M, digested with trypsin overnight at 37°C (Promega; 2.5 μg was added at 0 and 1 h), and lyophilized. Lyophilized samples were resuspended in 100 μl of 0.25 M TEAB/75% ethanol, added to one unit of the corresponding iTRAQ reagent and incubated for 1 h at 20°C. Residual reagents were hydrolyzed with 100 μl of water (20°C for 15 min). The labeled peptides from each iTRAQ comparison were then pooled and lyophilized. See Supporting Methods for more details. MS data files were processed by using wiff2dta, which converts QSTAR data files (.wiff) into text files that contain m/z and intensity information (peak lists) for each product ion spectra (CITATION). Each MS data file was processed twice to generate first, centroided peak lists that contain a single m/z value for each ion corresponding to the center of the peak, and second, uncentroided peak lists that contain m/z information for the entire peak. mascot 2.0.01 (Matrix Science, London) was used to search centroided peak lists against the MIPS Arabidopsis protein database (ftp://ftpmips.gsf.de/cress/arabiprot/arabi_all_proteins_v090704.gz; 26,719 entries). The modifications used were as follows: fixed, iTRAQ (K), iTRAQ (N-term), MMTS (C); variable, oxidation (M), iTRAQ (Y). The MS tolerance was 0.2 Da, and the MSMS tolerance was 0.5 Da. The mascot search results comprise a list of peptide identifications, each of which has a score that indicates the quality of the result. To determine the minimum peptide mascot score for accurate protein identification, each peak list was searched against a version of the Arabidopsis database in which the protein sequences were reversed. The identifications that resulted from the reversed database search were used to calculate the false protein identification rate: False protein identification rate = number of proteins identified from the reversed search/number of proteins identified from the normal search × 100.  mascot peptide scores of at least 27 and 32 for the first and second experiments, respectively, resulted in false protein identification rates of <1% for proteins containing at least two peptides. Normalized iTRAQ reporter ion ratios were calculated from the uncentroided peak lists by using the recently developed i-tracker (CITATION). Normalized reporter ion areas were calculated as follows: Normalized area A = area A/(area A + area B + area C + area D). The Genome Annotating Proteome Pipeline (gapp) system (I.P.S. and C.B., unpublished work) was used to parse peptide identification and scoring information from the mascot output files and link these identifications to the quantitation data in a relational database (mysql 4.0; MySQL AB, Uppsala). Peptides were quantified if at least three of the reporter ion peaks were above a threshold of 15 counts and if they had a mascot score of at least 20. In addition, only peptides that were unique to a single identified protein were quantified. iTRAQ ratios were imported into simca 10 (Umetrics, Umea, Sweden), logged, and preprocessed with unit-variance scaling. PCA and PLS-DA were performed as described previously, except that five organelle classes were used for the PLS-DA training set (CITATION). For protein classification by PLS-DA, the lowest-scoring training set proteins were used as the threshold for class membership. See Supporting Methods and Table 4 for more information.
