!~ABS~! Pex11 homologs and dynamin-related proteins uniquely regulate peroxisome division (cell-cycle-dependent duplication) and proliferation (cell-cycle-independent multiplication). Arabidopsis plants possess five Pex11 homologs designated in this study as AtPex11a, -b, -c, -d and -e. Transcripts for four isoforms were found in Arabidopsis plant parts and in cells in suspension culture; by contrast, AtPex11a transcripts were found only in developing siliques. Within 2.5 hours after biolistic bombardments, myc-tagged or GFP-tagged AtPex11 a, -b, -c, -d and -e individually sorted from the cytosol directly to peroxisomes; none trafficked indirectly through the endoplasmic reticulum. Both termini of myc-tagged AtPex11 b, -c, -d and -e faced the cytosol, whereas the N- and C-termini of myc-AtPex11a faced the cytosol and matrix, respectively. In AtPex11a- or AtPex11e-transformed cells, peroxisomes doubled in number. Those peroxisomes bearing myc-AtPex11a, but not myc-AtPex11e, elongated prior to duplication. In cells transformed with AtPex11c or AtPex11d, peroxisomes elongated without subsequent fission. In AtPex11b-transformed cells, peroxisomes were aggregated and rounded. A C-terminal dilysine motif, present in AtPex11c, -d and -e, was not necessary for AtPex11d-induced peroxisome elongation. However, deletion of the motif from myc-AtPex11e led to peroxisome elongation and fission, indicating that the motif in this isoform promotes fission without elongation. In summary, all five overexpressed AtPex11 isoforms sort directly to peroxisomal membranes where they individually promote duplication (AtPex11a, -e), aggregation (AtPex11b), or elongation without fission (AtPex11c, -d).
!~RES~! BLAST searches (TAIR protein database; http://www.arabidopsis.org/Blast/) for C. boidinii Pex11p (CbPex11p) homologs revealed the existence of five putative Arabidopsis Pex11 proteins: At1g47750, At3g47430, At1g01820, At2g45740 and At3g61070, corresponding to AtPex11a, -b, -c, -d and -e, respectively. All five exhibited 20-24% amino acid sequence identity with CbPex11p and 18-25% amino acid sequence identity with human HsPex11α and -β. AtPex11a was the only putative peroxin homolog identified in a BLAST search against HsPex11γ; conversely, only AtPex11c, -d and -e were identified in BLAST searches against ScPex11p. No AtPex11 homologs were identified when ScPex25p, ScPex27p or Trypanosoma brucei Pex11p (TbPex11p) were used to search the TAIR protein database.   [[FIGURE]] The amino acid sequence alignment in Fig. 1 shows that AtPex11c, -d and -e are highly similar to each other (75% average identity and 92% average similarity), whereas AtPex11a and -b are less similar to AtPex11c, -d and -e (22% average identity and 44% average similarity). AtPex11a and -b exhibit 31% identity and 51% similarity to each other. The AtPex11 proteins possess at least three (AtPex11a) or four (AtPex11b, -c, -d and -e) predicted transmembrane domains (TMDs) (Fig. 1, solid lines). PMPs characteristically possess a peroxisomal membrane-targeting signal (mPTS) comprising a TMD near a basic cluster of amino acid residues. Each AtPex11p sequence possesses at least two basic clusters of amino acid residues (Fig. 1, dashed lines) that might constitute a portion of a mPTS; these putative mPTSs on AtPex11c, -d and -e share high similarity. AtPex11c, -d and -e each possess a C-terminal dilysine motif.   [[FIGURE]] Non-quantitative reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR was employed to determine which, if any, of the putative AtPex11 isoforms were expressed in Arabidopsis developing siliques (seed pods), roots, leaves and/or suspension culture cells. Fig. 2 shows that four of the five AtPEX11 gene transcripts (approximately 700 bp in length) are expressed in roots, leaves and suspension culture cells, but AtPex11a transcripts were not. However, transcripts for all five genes were detected in silique RNA extracts. Because of the high degree of similarity among AtPEX11c, -d and -e, control PCRs were employed in which foreword primers for one AtPEX11 gene (e.g. AtPEX11c) were paired with reverse primers from another AtPEX11 gene (e.g. AtPEX11d). Leaf RNA was used for the control PCRs. No PCR product was produced from any of these control reactions (Fig. 2E, lanes 1-6). Shortly after biolistic bombardments, transformed cells were examined by (immuno)fluorescence microscopy to determine the sorting pathway and subcellular localization(s) of each overexpressed myc- or GFP-tagged AtPex11 protein. The earliest time point that proteins were consistently visualized within transformed cells was 2.5 hours post-bombardment. Panels A, F, K and P in Fig. 3 show in each transformed Arabidopsis (Fig. 3A,F) or BY-2 (Fig. 3K,P) cell a punctate fluorescence pattern resulting from dual immunolabeling with anti-myc plus Cy-2-conjugated (anti-myc/Cy-2) antibodies (Fig. 3A,K) and anti-catalase plus RhodamineX-conjugated (anti-catalase/RhodamineX) (Fig. 3F,P) antibodies. In both cell types, myc-tagged AtPex11a colocalized with endogenous catalase in peroxisomes (arrowheads); by contrast, myc-tagged AtPex11a was not observed in any other organelles (e.g. endoplasmic reticulum; ER) at any time point. The general morphology of the peroxisomes in these transformed cells is the same as the morphology of peroxisomes in neighboring nontransformed cells, i.e. rounded (spherical) or rod-shaped (Fig. 3, arrows). Comparisons of these panels also illustrate that peroxisomes in Arabidopsis cells are characteristically larger and fewer in number per cell than peroxisomes in BY-2 cells. Arabidopsis and BY-2 cells overexpressing each of the other four myc-AtPex11 proteins also exhibited colocalizations with endogenous peroxisomal catalase (compare Fig. 3B-E with G-J; and L-O with Q-T). None of these Pex11 proteins was detected in any other organellar compartment. Notably, peroxisomes in approximately 50% of transformed cells possessing myc-AtPex11c or myc-AtPex11d at 2.5 hours were distinctly elongated in Arabidopsis (Fig. 3C,D) and BY-2 (Fig. 3M,N) cells. Virtually all of the cells transformed with myc-AtPex11a, -b or -e at 2.5 hours possessed normal peroxisomes that were spherical-to-rod shaped, similar to those in surrounding, nontransformed cells (e.g. Fig. 3G,P-T). In parallel experiments, GFP-AtPex11a, -c and -d also sorted directly to peroxisomes at early hours (data not shown). Our visual observations that Arabidopsis peroxisomes bearing myc-AtPex11c or -d were somewhat elongated within about 50% of the transformed cells at 2.5 hours (Fig. 3C,D) prompted further examination of peroxisomes in these and other myc-AtPex11-transformed cells at later time points. For a cell-transformation and time-course control, Arabidopsis cells were bombarded with a gene encoding chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) with an appended C-terminal type 1 peroxisomal matrix-targeting signal (CAT-SKL). Peroxisomes in these transformed cells were used to derive a range of shapes and sizes for non-induced peroxisomes throughout a gene expression period of 72 hours. This was the longest time period that cells could be maintained without adverse effects of contamination, nutrient deprivation, etc. Fig. 4A-P (upper panels) shows representative micrographs of peroxisomes in single transformed cells bearing overexpressed myc-AtPex11c, -d, -b and CAT-SKL at 24, 48 and 72 hours post-bombardment. Peroxisomes that acquired myc-AtPex11c (Fig. 4A-D) or -d (Fig. 4E-H) became elongated/tubulated and remained as such through 72 hours. Visual comparisons of these 5-10 μm long peroxisomes with the 1-3 μm long peroxisomes within neighboring wild-type (Fig. 4B,F; arrowheads) or CAT-SKL-transformed cells (Fig. 4M-P) revealed the extent of peroxisomal elongation in myc-AtPex11c-transformed cells and myc-AtPex11d-transformed cells. Insets with higher magnifications of peroxisomes facilitate these visual comparisons. A dramatically different morphological effect was observed for peroxisomes that acquired myc-AtPex11b (Fig. I-L). All of these peroxisomes assumed a spherical/toric shape, which appeared to be a consequence of peroxisome aggregation.   [[FIGURE]] Fig. 4Q (bottom panel) shows the percentage of AtPex11-transformed cells possessing elongated (⩾3 μm long) peroxisomes at various time points. Fewer than 5% of peroxisomes in cells transformed with CAT-SKL were elongated during the entire gene expression time period (2.5-72 hours). None of the peroxisomes in cells transformed with myc-AtPex11b was elongated at any time. A nearly constant low percentage (5-10%) of cells transformed with myc-AtPex11e possessed elongated peroxisomes. A dramatic difference was apparent in cells transformed with myc-AtPex11c or -d. As noted earlier, at 2.5 hours post-bombardment, approximately 50% of the transformed cells possessed elongated peroxisomes. Within 12 hours, approximately 60-70% of cells transformed with myc-AtPex11c or -d possessed elongated peroxisomes. Throughout the rest of the time course, essentially the same percentage (⩾70%) of these transformed cells possessed elongated peroxisomes. Cells transformed with myc-AtPex11a exhibited a significant difference in the degree of peroxisome elongation. Only a small percentage (approximately 5%) of these transformed cells possessed elongated peroxisomes up to 12 hours. Thereafter, the percentage increased to a peak of 37% at 36 hours followed by a gradual decline to about the same level as CAT-SKL-transformed cells.   [[FIGURE]] Similar overexpression experiments were carried out with untagged versions of AtPex11a, -d and -e. The same morphological results were observed at 24 and 48 hours post-bombardment for each isoform, indicating that the myc epitope tag did not influence peroxisome morphology (Fig. S1, supplementary material). Fig. 5A illustrates that myc-AtPex11a-bearing peroxisomes observed at 5 hours post-bombardment are mostly spherical or rod shaped. However, at 24 hours, peroxisomes in about 25% of the transformed cells possess clearly elongated peroxisomes (Fig. 5B). These observations are consistent with data presented in Fig. 4Q. At 45 hours, a striking difference was observed in virtually all of the transformed cells on the microscope slides; peroxisomes in these cells were mostly spherical and visibly more numerous (compare Fig. 5C to 5A and Fig. 3A). Similar images of spherical, proliferated peroxisomes were observed in myc-AtPex11a-transformed cells at 72 hours (data not shown). At 5 and 24 hours, peroxisomes bearing myc-AtPex11e were rounded/rod shaped (Fig. 5D,E and Fig. 4Q) and exhibited approximately the same number of peroxisomes per cell as cells expressing CAT-SKL (Fig. 5I,J). Notably, at 24 hours, the peroxisomes were not elongated. At 45 hours, virtually all transformed cells on the microscope slides possessed visibly proliferated, rounded peroxisomes (compare Fig. 5F to 5D), which is remarkably similar to the myc-AtPex11a-proliferated peroxisomes (compare Fig. 5F to 5C). A similar apparent increase in the number of rounded peroxisomes was evident when cells were transformed with a GFP-AtPex11e construct (Fig. 5G,H). At 24 hours, the autofluorescent rounded/rod-shaped peroxisomes bearing this chimeric protein apparently were less numerous than they were at 72 hours (compare Fig. 5G to 5H). Fig. 5I,J illustrates that peroxisomes bearing CAT-SKL (Fig. 5I) and endogenous catalase (Fig. 5J) are colocalized and are rounded/rod shaped at 45 hours, like those bearing myc- or GFP-AtPex11e at 24 hours (Fig. 5E,G). The number of peroxisomes in the CAT-SKL-transformed cell is visibly less than the number of peroxisomes in the cells transformed with myc- or GFP-AtPex11e (45 and 72 hours; Fig. 5F,H) or myc-AtPex11a (24 and 45 hours; Fig. 5B,C).   [[FIGURE]] These microscopic observations prompted numerical analyses of the perceived peroxisomal multiplications observed in AtPex11-transformed cells (Table 1). Cells transiently transformed with the CAT-SKL construct were used to establish baseline values for peroxisome number in transformed cells at 24, 45 and 72 hours post-bombardment. The number of CAT-SKL-bearing peroxisomes remained virtually constant (8-9 peroxisomes per 100 μm2) at the three time points (Table 1). At 24 hours, the number of peroxisomes bearing myc-AtPex11e conformed to the baseline value, whereas the number of those bearing myc-AtPex11a was approximately double the baseline value (17 peroxisomes per 100 μm2). At 45 hours, the number of peroxisomes possessing either myc-AtPex11e or myc-AtPex11a was approximately doubled (17-19 peroxisomes per μm2). The number of myc-AtPex11e-bearing peroxisomes did not change during the next 27 hours of expression (72 hours post-bombardment). An Independent Samples T Test confirmed that there was a significant difference (P<0.001) between the mean number of peroxisomes per 100 μm2 in cells transformed with AtPex11a (24 and 48 hours) or AtPex11e (48 and 72 hours) compared with cells transformed with CAT-SKL. There was no significant difference between the numbers of peroxisomes in cells transformed with CAT-SKL at the different time points. To validate the statistically significant doubling of myc-AtPex11e-bearing peroxisomes at 72 hours, cells were transformed with GFP-AtPex11e. Table 1 shows that the number of GFP-AtPex11e-bearing peroxisomes was approximately double the baseline value.   [[TABLE]] To determine whether the C-terminal dilysine motif was necessary for myc-AtPex11-induced peroxisomal elongation and/or duplication, myc-AtPex11dΔ6 and myc-AtPex11eΔ7 constructs that lacked their dilysine motifs were produced. At 5, 24 and 72 hours, peroxisomes bearing myc-AtPex11dΔ6 were elongated (Fig. 6A-C), as were peroxisomes bearing the wild-type protein (Fig. 4E,H). Conversely, peroxisomes bearing myc-AtPex11eΔ7 exhibited a time-dependent change in morphology not observed for peroxisomes bearing myc-AtPex11e. At 5 hours, peroxisomes bearing myc-AtPex11eΔ7 were rounded/rod shaped (Fig. 6D) similar to peroxisomes bearing the wild-type protein (Fig. 5D). At 24 hours, peroxisomes bearing myc-AtPex11eΔ7 were elongated, unlike the rounded peroxisomes bearing the wild-type protein construct (compare Fig. 6E to Fig. 5E and Fig. 4Q). At 72 hours, myc-AtPex11eΔ7-bearing peroxisomes were no longer elongated, but were rounded and visibly increased in number per cell (Fig. 6F) similar to AtPex11e-bearing peroxisomes at 45 or 72 hours (Fig. 5F). Hence, unlike peroxisomes in cells transformed with myc-AtPex11e, those in cells transformed with myc-AtPex11eΔ7 elongated prior to duplication (compare Fig. 5D-F with Fig. 6D-F). To determine the topological orientation of peroxisomal myc-AtPex11 proteins in vivo, digitonin was applied to permeabilize plasma, but not peroxisomal, membranes of cells transformed with genes encoding C- or N-terminal myc-tagged AtPex11a, -b, -c, -d or -e. Fig. 7A,C-J shows fluorescence from peroxisomes in individual myc-labeled cells transformed with each of the genes. Notably, no fluorescence was observed in cells transformed with AtPex11a-myc (Fig. 7B). As expected, variations in peroxisome morphology and number were apparent among the different transformed cells; hence, appendage of the myc epitope to the N- or C-terminus did not produce variant peroxisomal morphology. Fig. 7K-T shows results of anti-catalase/Rhodamine fluorescence labeling in the same dual immunolabeled cells depicted in Fig. 7A-J. In all cases, anti-catalase/Rhodamine fluorescence signals from the transformed cells were not observed, indicating that anti-catalase IgGs were not accessible to the peroxisomal matrix. Combined, these results indicated that the N-termini of each myc-tagged AtPex11 homolog and the C-termini of AtPex11b, -c, -d or -e immunoreacted with anti-myc antibodies present in the cytosol only.   [[FIGURE]] The myc-AtPex3 protein was expressed in Arabidopsis cells as a control to verify that a N-terminal myc epitope tag facing the peroxisomal matrix was inaccessible to anti-myc/Cy-2 antibodies in digitonin-treated cells; this orientation for myc-AtPex3p was shown previously in BY-2 cells (CITATION). Fig. 7U,V shows that transformed cells permeabilized with digitonin and dual immunolabeled with anti-myc/Cy-2 and anti-catalase/Rhodamine antibodies exhibit no (peroxisomal) fluorescence. Confirmation of myc-AtPex3p expression in transformed cells is shown in Fig. 7W,X where anti-myc/Cy-2- and anti-catalase/Rhodamine-labeled peroxisomes are visualized in samples from the same batch of cells permeabilized with Triton X-100. As another positive control for digitonin permeabilization, cells from the same myc-AtPex3p transformation experiment were incubated in digitonin and dual immunolabeled with anti-tubulin plus Cy-2-conjugated (endogenous microtubules) and anti-catalase/Rhodamine antibodies. Immunofluorescence images of cortical microtubules in the cytoplasm (Fig. 7Y), but not of peroxisomal matrix catalase (Fig. 7Z) confirmed that incubation in digitonin permeabilized plasma and not peroxisomal membranes.
!~MM~! Enzymes and reagents used for DNA/RNA isolations and manipulations were obtained from BioRad, Eppendorf, Fermentas, New England Biolabs, Promega and Qiagen. Custom oligonucleotide primers were obtained from Genetech Biosciences or Integrated DNA Technologies. Plasmid cloning and whole-plasmid mutagenic reactions were verified by automated dye-terminator cycle sequencing (Arizona State University DNA Laboratory, Tempe, AZ). Gene sequences and primer designs used in this study are available upon request from the authors. Expression of AtPEX11 transcripts in Arabidopsis leaves, roots and suspension cells was detected by reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR. Total RNA was isolated using the Qiagen RNeasy Plant Mini Kit and treated with DNase I. Full-length AtPEX11 transcripts were amplified using the Promega Access RT-PCR System; oligo (dT) primers were used for the RT reaction and mutagenic primers complimentary to 5′ and 3′ ends of the AtPEX11 transcripts were added for PCR. Products of RT-PCR experiments were separated in 1% agarose gels containing ethidium bromide and imaged with a UVP GDS-8000 System bioimaging system (Upland). The intron-free At1g47750 RT-PCR product (AtPEX11a) was amplified from genomic DNA using mutagenic primers that replaced the start codon with an in-frame XbaI restriction enzyme (RE) site and added an XbaI RE site after the stop codon. This product was subcloned into pCR2.1 using the Invitrogen TOPO TA Cloning Kit and sequenced. cDNAs encoding AtPEX11 genes were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Columbus, OH) (At3g47430-U15712), Riken (At2g45740-RAFL07-14-A08) (CITATION; CITATION), and D. Rhoads (Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ) (At1g01820 and At3g61070). Full-length AtPEX11 cDNAs were subcloned into pRTL2, a plant expression vector with a double 35S promoter, possessing the coding sequence for either an N-terminal myc epitope tag (pRTL2-Nmyc), a C-terminal myc epitope tag (pRTL2-Cmyc), or an N-terminal monomeric GFP (pRTL2-GFPm) (CITATION). cDNAs subcloned into pRTL2-Nmyc were PCR-amplified with mutagenic primers complimentary to 5′ and 3′ termini of AtPEX11b, -c, -d and -e designed to replace start codons with in-frame RE sites (BamHI for AtPEX11b, -d and -e; XbaI for AtPEX11c) and to add RE sites after existing stop codons (XbaI for AtPEX11c, -d and -e; NheI for AtPEX11b). Constructs of AtPEX11b, -d and -e subcloned into pRTL2-Cmyc were amplified first with mutagenic primers that replaced stop codons with in-frame BamHI RE sites and that added adjacent BamHI RE sites upstream of start codons. Constructs subcloned into pRTL2-GFPm were amplified first with primers designed to replace start codons with in-frame XbaI RE sites and to append in-frame XbaI RE sites downstream of stop codons. Following PCR amplification, all constructs were subcloned into pCR2.1 using the TOPO TA Cloning Kit. For ligation reactions, pCR2.1-AtPEX11a, -b, -c, -d, -e and pRTL2 plasmids were digested with the corresponding REs. Full-length AtPEX11 DNA fragments were isolated electrophoretically in agarose gels, purified using the Qiagen QIAquick Gel Extraction Kit, and ligated to RE-digested pRTL2 vectors. pRTL2 vectors digested with one RE (e.g. BamHI or XbaI) were treated with calf intestinal alkaline phosphatase to prevent re-circularization of plasmid DNA. To prepare AtPEX11a, -d and -e constructs without epitope tags, cDNAs for each were amplified from pRTL2/myc-AtPEX11a, -d and -e. Mutagenic primers complimentary to 5′ and 3′ termini were used for PCRs that appended BamHI RE sites upstream and adjacent to the start codons, and XbaI RE sites downstream and adjacent to the stop codons. PCR products were purified by agarose gel electrophoresis, digested with corresponding REs, and ligated into BamHI/XbaI-digested pRTL2ΔNS. myc-AtPex11dΔ6 and myc-AtPex11eΔ7 were created using the Stratagene QuikChange site-directed mutagenesis kit to replace codons 691CCC693 (myc-AtPex11dΔ6) and 673CGC675 (myc-AtPex11eΔ7) with stop codons (TGA). Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana var. Landsberg erecta; a gift from S. Neill, University of West England, Bristol, UK) and tobacco BY-2 (Nicotiana tabacum L., cv. Bright Yellow 2) suspension cultures were maintained in MS salt and vitamin mixture (Invitrogen) and in MS salt mixture (Invitrogen), respectively. Arabidopsis and BY-2 cultures were propagated as described by Lisenbee et al. (CITATION) and Banjoko and Trelease (CITATION), respectively, except that the 125 ml culture flasks plugged with cotton stoppers were replaced with long-necked 125 ml culture flasks capped with plastic or stainless steel caps to improve cell culture aeration and uniformity of growth. Biolistic bombardments were carried out essentially as described by Mullen et al. (CITATION). Briefly, cells were collected by centrifugation 4 days after subculture (5 ml packed cell volume), resuspended aseptically in approximately 0.75 volumes transformation medium (growth medium without 2,4-D, plus 250 mM sorbitol and 250 mM mannitol) (CITATION; CITATION), and incubated at room temperature, in darkness, with rocking inversion for 20 minutes. The cell suspension (4 ml) was distributed `drop-wise' onto the center area (5 cm diameter circle) of three stacked, pre-moistened filter papers (Whatman #4) placed in the lid of a 10 cm Petri dish. These cells were incubated for equilibration at room temperature for 1 hour in darkness. Plasmid DNA was precipitated onto BioRad M-17 tungsten particles essentially as described by Banjoko and Trelease (CITATION), except that sonication for 1 minute was added as a part of each isopropanol wash to improve Arabidopsis suspension cell transformation efficiency. The tungsten-DNA particles were spread on the center of BioRad macrocarriers and placed in a desiccator for 20-30 minutes before bombardment. The prepared cells were biolistically bombarded in a BioRad PDS-1000/He with 10 μg plasmid DNA (two bombardments per plate), 28 inches Hg vacuum, and 1350 p.s.i. as described by Lee et al. (CITATION). At intervals between 2.5 and 72 hours post-bombardment, all cells on each plate were scraped into 4% formaldehyde (prepared from paraformaldehyde; Ted Pella) in transformation medium and fixed for 1 hour at room temperature. To permit IgG diffusion into cells, cell walls were perforated/digested for 2 hours at 28°C in 0.1% (w/v) Pectolyase Y-23 (Karlan Enzymes) and 0.1% (w/v) cellulase RS (Karlan Enzymes; Arabidopsis cells only) diluted in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS; 140 mM NaCl, 2.7 mM KCl, 4.3 mM Na2HPO4, 4.4 mM KH2PO4, pH 7.4). Cells were then immunolabeled according to Lisenbee et al. (CITATION). Briefly, cells were permeabilized for 15 minutes in a final concentration of 0.33% (v/v) Triton X-100 (Sigma) and then incubated with PBS-diluted primary and dye-conjugated secondary antibodies. For differential permeabilization of plasma (not peroxisomal) membranes, Arabidopsis cells were transformed and fixed in formaldehyde as above, but were perforated/digested in 0.1% pectinase (Sigma) for 1.5 hours at 28°C and then incubated in 25 mg/ml digitonin at room temperature for 15 minutes as described by Lisenbee et al. (CITATION). Primary antibody sources and concentrations in PBS were as follows: mouse anti-myc monoclonal antibody 9E10 (1:500) (Santa Cruz Biotechnology), mouse anti-chick brain α-tubulin monoclonal antibody MDM1A (1:500) (Accurate Chemical and Scientific), rabbit anti-cottonseed catalase affinity-purified (protein A-Sepharose) IgGs (1:2000) (Kunce et al., 1988). Cy-2-, Cy-5- and RhodamineX-conjugated secondary antibodies were purchased from Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories and used in PBS at concentrations of 1:500, 1:500 and 1:2000, respectively. Immunolabeled cells were resuspended in one volume of n-propyl gallate (10 mg/ml; Sigma) on glass slides, coverslipped, flattened with stacked weights (non-confocal epifluorescence microscopy only), and imaged as described by Hunt and Trelease (CITATION). Images were deconvoluted using MetaMorph software (Universal Imaging) and adjusted for brightness and contrast with Adobe Photoshop 7.0 software (Adobe Systems). Experiments and procedures to quantify the percentage of transformed cells bearing elongated peroxisomes were carried out as follows. Cells transformed individually with all five myc-AtPEX11 or CAT-SKL DNA constructs were fixed in formaldehyde at 2.5, 12, 24, 36, 48 or 72 hours post-bombardment and prepared for immunofluorescence microscopy as described above. For each batch of cells transformed with myc-AtPEX11a, -c, -d, -e or CAT-SKL, fluorescence images (anti-myc/Cy-2 or anti-CAT/Cy-2) were acquired for at least 30 of the transformed cells. For cells transformed with myc-AtPEX11b, images were obtained for a minimum of 10 cells at 2.5, 24, 48 and 72 hours. Peroxisomes ⩾3 μm in length were considered elongated based on measurements made with control CAT-SKL images. Scoring of at least one elongated peroxisome per transformed cell was accomplished with a 3 μm circular template. Experiments and procedures designed to quantify peroxisome number within Arabidopsis cells were carried out as follows. Transiently transformed cells prepared for immunofluorescence microscopy as described above were imaged with a Lecia Laser-Scanning Confocal Microscope. Fluorescent (anti-myc/Cy-2, GFP, or anti-catalase/Cy-5) optical sections were acquired at 2 μm intervals for each of 30 transformed cells per gene construct. Using MetaMorph v. 6.1 image-processing software, montage images were prepared from serial sections of anti-catalase/Cy-5 antibody fluorescence from each transformed cell and `depixelated' (Low Pass function). The number of peroxisomes per cell optical section was computed using the following procedure: (1) cell boundaries were outlined, (2) image threshold was adjusted to highlight peroxisomal fluorescence, and (3) the number of peroxisomes per 100 μm2 was computed and recorded. Peroxisomes were counted in 150-200 cell sections per gene construct (e.g. myc-AtPEX11e). The numbers of peroxisomes in cells transformed with various AtPEX11 and CAT-SKL gene constructs were compared using an Independent Samples T Test to determine whether the difference between the samples was significant. SPSS software was used to derive descriptive statistics.
