!~ABS~! Plant genomes contain genetically encoded isoforms of most nucleotide sugar interconversion enzymes. Here we show that Arabidopsis thaliana has five genes encoding functional UDP-d-glucose/UDP-d-galactose 4-epimerase (named UGE1 to UGE5). All A. thaliana UDP-d-glucose 4-epimerase isoforms are dimeric in solution, maximally active in vitro at 30-40 °C, and show good activity between pH 7 and pH 9. In vitro, UGE1, -3, and -5 act independently of externally added NAD+, whereas cofactor addition stimulates the activity of UGE2 and is particularly important for UGE4 activity. UGE1 and UGE3 are most efficiently inhibited by UDP. The five isoforms display values between 23 and 128 s- and values between 0.1 and 0.3 mm. This results in enzymatic efficiencies ranging between 97 and 890 mm-1 s-1 for UGE4 = UGE1 < UGE3 < UGE5 < UGE2. The values, derived from the Haldane relationship, were 0.76 mm for UGE1, 0.56 mm for UGE4, and between 0.13 and 0.23 mm for UGE2, -3, and -5. The expression of UGE isoforms is ubiquitous and displays developmental and cell type-dependent variations. UGE1 and -3 expression patterns globally resemble enzymes involved in carbohydrate catabolism, and UGE2, -4, and -5 expression is more related to carbohydrate biosynthesis. UGE1, -2, and -4 are present in the cytoplasm, whereasUGE4 is additionally enriched close to Golgi stacks. All UGE genes tested complement the UGE4rhd1 phenotype, confer increased galactose tolerance in planta, and complement the galactose metabolization deficiency in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae gal10 mutant. We suggest that plant UGE isoforms function in different metabolic situations and that enzymatic properties, gene expression pattern, and subcellular localization contribute to the differentiation of isoform function. 
!~RES~! UGE Isoforms Are Dimeric and Can Interact Homo- and Hetero-typically—All five A. thaliana UGE genes are predicted to code for polypeptides of ∼40 kDa (Table 1). Dynamic light scattering of all five UGEs indicates molecular masses between 64 and 103 kDa suggesting dimeric quaternary structure (Table 1). In agreement with that interpretation, all UGEs elute as single peaks corresponding to 73-93-kDa proteins in gel filtration experiments (Table 1). Yeast two-hybrid assays detect self-interaction of UGE proteins and reveal interaction between different UGE isoforms (Fig. 1). In this system the affinities of both homotypic and heterotypic interactions are relatively weak, leading to activation of the HIS but not of the ADE reporter genes.    [[TABLE]]   [[FIGURE]] Differential Effect of Temperature, pH, and NaCl—Recombinant purified enzymes corresponding to each of the five isoforms interconvert UDP-Glc and UDP-Gal with a Keq of 0.33. As expected, Keq is identical for all isoforms. The UGE isoforms exhibit different temperature optima (Fig. 2A). UGE4 is most active at 30 °C, whereas temperature optima of UGE3 and UGE5 are at 35 °C and of UGE1 and UGE2 at 40 °C. In MES buffer between pH 5.0 and pH 7.0 and in Tris/HCl buffer between pH 6.5 and pH 9.5, the UGEs are most active at neutral to alkaline pH and increasingly inhibited at weakly acidic pH (Fig. 2B). At pH 6.0, UGE1 is most active, displaying 40% of maximal activity, whereas UGE4 is virtually inactive. At pH 9.5, this relationship is inverted, UGE1 being active to 70% of maximal activity, whereas the activity of UGE4 still shows 90% of the rate at the optimal pH. In Tris/HCl, pH 6.5 and pH 7, all isoforms are considerably more active than in MES buffers at identical pH. Inclusion of 40 or 160 mm NaCl increases the activity of UGE2 and UGE5 and inhibits UGE4 (Fig. 2C). At 400 mm NaCl, UGE4 activity is reduced to 38% of the NaCl-free control, whereas the activities of the remaining four isoforms remain between 70 and 90% of the control activity.  Effect of Metabolites on UGE Activity—The activities of UGE1, -3, and -5 are not affected by the presence or absence of 0.1 mm NAD+. In contrast, UGE4 activity is increased almost 10-fold, and UGE2 activity is stimulated 1.7-fold by 0.1 mm NAD+(Table 2). Inclusion of 10 μm NADH in general has little effect; however, UGE4 is slightly inhibited. NADPH has a very weak inhibitory effect on all five isoforms. The most marked effect of various nucleotides on UGE activity was observed with UDP, which reduced UGE1 and UGE3 to ∼29-35% of control activity. All isoforms are more strongly inhibited by UDP than by the other nucleotides tested. Interestingly, UGE4 was the one isoform that was inhibited least by all nucleotides tested. Likewise, UGE4 was least inhibited by UDP-sugars, whereas the remaining isoforms were inhibited by UDP-d-glucuronic acid (78-94% of control), UDP-d-xylose (74-83%), UDP-l-arabinose (55-67%), and UDP-d-N-acetylglucosamine (77-90%).    [[TABLE]] Sensitivity of UGE2 and UGE4 to Dinucleotide Cofactor—Dependence of UGE4 activity on NAD+ concentration can be described according to single site saturation kinetics, with half-maximal stimulation (K) by NAD+ at 3.6 μm (Fig. 3A). The affinity between NAD+ and UGE2 appears to be higher than between NAD+ and UGE4, as substantial UGE2 activity (60% of the maximal rate) is detected in the absence of added cofactor. Between 0 and 40 μm NAD+, there is a steady increase in UGE2 activity. However, the fit with a two-site saturation model is far better (r2 = 0.72) than with a single-site saturation model (r 2 = 0.17) (Fig. 3B). It is conceivable that one NAD+-binding site per UGE2 dimer binds NAD+ with very high affinity, whereas the second site has lower affinity. This would explain the residual activity of ∼50% in the absence of added NAD+ and the saturation-type kinetics between 50 and 100% of activity by the addition of increasing levels of NAD+.  We further investigated the effect of various combinations of NAD and NADH on UGE2 and UGE4 activity (Table 3). UGE2 is inhibited to 56% of control activity by a combination of 100 μm NADH and 10 μm+. UGE4 is maximally inhibited by the same combination (10% of controls) but is also inhibited by all other NAD+/NADH combinations.    [[TABLE]] UGE Kinetics—Curve fitting using Sigmaplot indicates that UDP-Gal-binding sites of all five UGE isoforms behave according to simple Michaelis-Menten kinetics (not shown). The most obvious difference between the five isoforms is their turnover rate (kcat). Under standard assay conditions, of UGE1 is lowest at 24 s-1 and that of UGE5 highest at 128 s-1 (Table 4). Variations of between UGE isoforms are less dramatic, ranging from 0.1 to 0.3 mm for UGE2 and UGE4, respectively (Table 4). Both and values vary slightly between the different enzyme concentrations used. Despite the partial overlap between of different UGE isoforms assayed at different enzyme concentrations, the enzymatic efficiencies clearly distinguish the isoforms (Table 4). The enzymatic velocities for UDP-Glc determined at high substrate concentrations allow us to estimate . For UGE2, -3, and -5, this value is 3-3.9-fold lower than , and for UGE4, it is 1.2-fold lower (Table 5). Notably, of UGE1 is 1.33-fold higher than . When the Haldane relationship is applied to the experimentally determined values of the equilibrium ratio, , , and to derive , relatively high values are obtained for UGE1 (0.76 mm) and UGE4 (0.56 mm), whereas the remaining isoforms display higher substrate affinities for UDP-Glc compared with UDP-Gal.    [[TABLE]]   [[TABLE]]   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] Expression of UGE Genes—We demonstrated previously the expression of all UGE isoforms in every plant organ (CITATION). This observation is confirmed by the meta-analysis of publicly available global expression data (Fig. 4A). Moreover, this analysis reveals subtle variations between the UGE genes. There is a relatively high abundance of UGE1 and -3 transcripts in seeds and inflorescence and flower and an apparent up-regulation of UGE2 and -5 in leaves during senescence. UGE1 transcript level is very high in dark elongating hypocotyls. Transcript of UGE4 on the other hand is most abundant in roots, in particular in the root elongation zone (Fig. 4, A and B). Previous analysis of UGE promoter: β-glucuronidase-expressing plants indicated subtle differences of UGE expression in roots (CITATION). These are confirmed by querying a digital gene expression map of the A. thaliana root (CITATION). According to these two data sets, UGE1 and -2 are strongly expressed in the lateral root cap and in the underlying meristematic cells. UGE4 and -1 transcripts are both abundant in the root elongation zone. In the differentiation and mature zone, all isoforms except UGE2 are abundant (Fig. 4B). We compared the global fluctuations of transcript abundance of genes involved in carbohydrate biosynthesis to stresses by co-response analysis in CSB.DB (CITATION) and also by using an alternative approach (CITATION). Both approaches consistently indicate that transcript levels of UGE1 and -3 behave in a fundamentally different way to stresses than do UGE2, -4, and -5 transcript levels (Table 6). The same trend is seen when “abiotic stress aboveground organs,” “developmental” or “miscellaneous” data sets, which contain fewer genes than the “abiotic stress roots” data set, are used as the matrix. Generally, there is a strong similarity of global expression patterns of UGE1 and -3 on the one hand and of UGE2 and -5 on the other hand (Table 6). The genes encoding enzymes that are likely to be involved in the generation of UDP-Gal from free galactose are the genes coding galactokinase (GalK, AGI code At3g06580) and the A. thaliana galactose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase homolog (GalT, At5g18200), and these display a stress-regulated expression pattern similar to UGE1 and UGE3 (Fig. 5A). In contrast, carbohydrate biosynthetic enzymes that utilize UDP-Gal as substrate are expressed in a similar fashion to UGE2, -4, and -5. These include xyloglucan-specific galactosyltransferase MUR3 (CITATION) and its close homolog AtGT18, also thought to be involved in xyloglucan galactosylation (CITATION), as well as several genes encoding galactinol synthase isoforms (only GolS1, At2g47180, is shown in Fig. 5A). Among enzymes utilizing UDP-Glc as substrate, several genes of the glycosyltransferase family 20 known to encode trehalose-6-phosphate synthase (CITATION) are co-expressed with UGE1 and -3 (only trehalose-6-phosphate synthase isoforms 9 and 10 are shown in Fig. 5A). This suggests a role for UGE1 and -3 in the reaction from UDP-Gal to UDP-Glc, which is required for the re-metabolization of galactose, released from catabolized carbohydrates. UGE2,-4, and -5 appear to be involved in the generation of UDP-Gal from UDP-Glc to generate building blocks for carbohydrate biosynthesis (Fig. 5B).    [[TABLE]] UGE Isoforms Are Differentially Localized in the Cytoplasm—Recombinant UGE genes encoding fluorescent protein, either at the amino or at the carboxyl terminus of UGE4, restore the wild type root phenotype in uge4 mutant plants, suggesting that fluorescent protein tagging leaves UGEs functional (data not shown). Translational fusions of UGE1, -2, and -4 and fluorescent proteins are detectably expressed in root tips (Fig. 5). Moreover, UGE1:CFP fluorescence is detected in all cell types of hypocotyls, and UGE2:CFP is detected in guard cells in all aboveground organs (data not shown). UGE1:CFP expression is detected in every cell type of root tip, including the root cap (Fig. 6A) and the root epidermis (Fig. 6, C and D), whereas visibility of UGE2:CFP expression in roots is essentially restricted to the root cap (Fig. 6B). UGE4:GFP fluorescence is detected specifically in roots, with particularly strong expression in the elongating epidermis and cortex cells (Fig. 6E). The cell type-specific expression pattern of functional fluorescent UGE fusion proteins driven by the endogenous promoters is consistent with the promoter:GUS fusions (CITATION) as well as “digital in situ” data (Fig. 4B). As expected from the apparent absence of amino-terminal secretion signals in the peptide sequences of A. thaliana UGE isoforms (CITATION), the fluorescence of all UGE:fluorescent protein fusions suggests subcellular localization in the cytosol (Fig. 6). The diffuse cytoplasmic fluorescence is interspersed with nonfluorescent vacuoles, sometimes forming transvacuolar strands but otherwise unstructured. Both UGE1:CFP and UGE2:CFP display a comparable localization (Fig. 6, A-D). UGE4:GFP localization also appears to be cytosolic; however, many cells in the root elongation zone also contain brightly fluorescent granular structures potentially highlighting specific organelles (Fig. 6E). Comparable structures are not highlighted by the UGE1:CFP construct that is expressed at a similar level in the root epidermis (Fig. 6, C and D). This suggests that despite their overlapping expression in the root epidermis, UGE1:CFP and UGE4:GFP are differentially localized in the cytoplasm.    [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] Antibodies, raised and affinity-purified against the carboxyl terminus of UGE4, bind to the periphery of Golgi stacks (Fig. 7A, arrowhead) and also diffusely to the cytoplasm (Fig. 7A, asterisk). The absence of a signal in sections of uge4 mutants that contain a premature stop codon demonstrates the specificity of the antibody (Fig. 7B). Chemical fixation resulted in comparable antigen distribution (data not shown). In summary, the isoforms UGE1, -2, and -4 are co-localized in the cytosol, but UGE4 is specifically enriched in the periphery of Golgi stacks in the root elongation zone.  UGE Isoforms Act in Both Directions in Vivo—To test the action of various UGE isoforms in planta, we expressed UGE1, -2, -3, and -4 as well as GalE from E. coli in the uge4 mutant under the control of the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. The loss of function of UGE4 results in dramatically swollen root epidermal cells (Fig. 8A, uge4), probably a result of defective cell wall matrix carbohydrate biosynthesis (CITATION, CITATION). This phenotype is rescued by transformation of uge4 with a wild type UGE4 gene (CITATION), as well as with all overexpressed UGE isoforms from A. thaliana and E. coli (Fig. 4A, 35S:UGE uge4). Mutants in UGE4 display a deficiency in fuco-galactosylated xyloglucan and arabinogalactan type II as highlighted by immunocytochemistry using the monoclonal antibodies CCRC-M1 and CCRC-M7, respectively (CITATION). Like the morphological defects of uge4, the chemical cell wall defects are suppressed by overexpressing UGE1 (Fig. 8, B and C).  To test if the various UGE isoforms can act as UDP-d-galactose 4-epimerases in vivo, we made use of the observation that increased UGE activity enhances galactose tolerance (CITATION). Transfer of 4-day-old untransformed wild type and uge4 mutant seedlings to media containing 40 mm d-galactose as the sole carbon source leads to the inhibition of lateral root outgrowth (Fig. 9A) and to necrosis in the primary root tip (Fig. 8B). Plants overexpressing UGE1, UGE2, UGE3, UGE4, or GalE do not show inhibition of lateral root outgrowth (Fig. 8A) and root necrosis (Fig. 8B) upon transfer to 40 mm d-galactose. All A. thaliana UGE coding sequences complement the inability of gal10 S. cerevisiae mutants to grow on a medium containing d-galactose as their sole carbon source, thus demonstrating their UDP-d-galactose 4-epimerase activity in vivo (Fig. 9C). 
!~MM~! Cloning and Recombinant Expression of UGEs in Escherichia coli— UGE4 bacterial expression was described previously (CITATION). Using A. thaliana wild type (Col-0) seedling total cDNA as template, the coding sequences of UGE1-3 and -5 were amplified using the following oligonucleotides (from 5′ to 3′): U1/Nde-F, CATATGGGTTCTTCTGTGGAGCAG; U1/Bgl-R, AGATCTCAAAGCTTATTCTGGTAACC; U2/Vsp-F, ATTAATATGGCGAAGAGTGTTTTGG; U2/Bgl-R, AGATCTTATGAAGAGGAGCCATTGGAGG; U3/Nde-F, CATATGGGTTCTTCTGTGGAACAG; U3/Bgl-R, AGATCTCAAGGCTTCTTCTGGAAACC; U5/Vsp-F, ATTAATATGGCTAGAAACGTTCTAGTAAG; and U5/Bgl-R, AGATCTTAATGAGAGTTGTCTTCAGAA, respectively.  PCR products were cloned into pGEM-T (Promega), and individual clones were sequenced. Correct open reading frames of UGE1 and UGE3 were released using NdeI and BglII; UGE2 and UGE5 were released using VspI and BglII and ligated into NdeI- and BglII-digested, gel-purified pET15b (Novagen). Because UGE2 and UGE5 cDNA sequences contain internal NdeI sites, VspI was used for cloning into pET15. This procedure introduces 1 asparagine residue between the UGE peptide and the 20-amino acid-long amino-terminal hexahistidine peptide. Recombinant UGE proteins were expressed and affinity-purified as described previously for UGE4 (CITATION). UGE preparations containing 50% glycerol were frozen on dry ice and kept at -80 °C. After purification, staining with Sypro Ruby Protein Gel Stain (Molecular Probes, Invitrogen) revealed a certain degree of unspecific proteins bound to the Hisbind (Novagen) affinity matrix. The content of recombinant UGE1-5 was 50, 70, 60, 82, and 71%, respectively. To keep the manipulation of the proteins as low as possible, no further purification step was attempted. Specific enzyme concentration was determined by co-electrophoresis of 5-35 ng of protein assay standard II lyophilized bovine serum albumin (BSA, Bio-Rad catalog number 500-0007), scanning the gel on a PROXPRESS proteomic imaging system (PerkinElmer Life Sciences) using 480/30 nm excitation and 630/30 nm emission filters, and quantification of specific bands by Labworks software (UVP, Inc.).  Cloning and Recombinant Expression of UGEs in Yeast—The cDNA inserts were cleaved from the pGEM-T plasmids using NdeI (UGE1, -3, and -4) or AseI/VspI (UGE2 and -5) and BglII and then gel-purified. The fragments were cloned into the NdeI and BamHI restriction sites of the cleaved and de-phosphorylated yeast two-hybrid plasmids pGBKT7 and pGADT7 (Clontech). For functional complementation of the UGE-deficient yeast mutant, the bait plasmids pGBKT7 and pGBKT7-UGE1 to-5 were transformed into the gal10 strain by small scale transformation, and transformants were selected on SD/-Trp-selective medium. For the complementation assay, transformed mutant cells were grown at 30 °C on SD/-Trp-selective medium and galactose solid medium (1% yeast extract (Duchefa), 2% Bacto-peptone (BD Biosciences), 0.8% galactose (Sigma), 2% Micro agar (Duchefa); w/v). All UGE isoforms were tested for interaction both with themselves and with each other by yeast two-hybrid assays. Each UGE bait (GBKT7-UGE1-5) was co-transformed with UGE prey (pGADT7-UGE1-5) into the AH109 reporter strain (Clontech), and double transformants were selected on SD/-Leu/-Trp medium. For yeast two-hybrid interaction assays, double transformants were grown on SD/-His/-Trp/-Leu for selection of activation of the HIS reporter gene and on SD/-Ade/-His/-Trp/-Leu for selection of activation of the HIS and the ADE reporter genes.  UDP-Gal 4-Epimerase Assay—UGE was assayed as described previously (CITATION). The standard epimerase reaction was performed in 50 mm Tris/HCl, pH 7.4, containing 0.1 mm NAD+ and 125 μg·ml-1 acetylated BSA (Sigma catalog number B 2518) at 25 °C, unless stated otherwise. To start kinetic measurements, 175 μl of UDP-Gal (Calbiochem catalog number 670111) solution was added to 25 μl of pre-warmed enzyme solution, and the reaction was stopped after 10 min by adding 25 μl of 1.2 m HCl. After 5 min at 100 °C and cooling, 25 μl of 1.2 m NaOH was added. Glucose was quantified in a coupled reaction by adding 100 μlof a solution containing 5 μg·ml-1 horseradish peroxidase (Sigma catalog number P 8250, 179 units·mg-1), 100 μg·ml-1 glucose oxidase (Sigma catalog number 49180, 198 units·mg-1), and 300 μg·ml-1 o-dianisidine dihydrochloride (Sigma catalog number D-3252) in 100 mm sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, for 30 min at room temperature, against a glucose standard series in a buffer identical to the epimerase buffer. The reactions were stopped by adding 300 μlof6 m HCl, and the absorbance was detected at 540 nm. The linearity of the epimerase reaction was tested between 5 and 30 min and by varying enzyme concentrations. Maximal reaction rate and Km values were determined by varying UDP-Gal concentration between 0.05 and 2.5 mm using best fit to single site saturation kinetics in the pharmacology menu of Sigmaplot 8.0 software. To determine Keq, UDP-Glc was converted by re-adding fresh enzyme until there was no further change in the UDP-Glc:UDP-Gal ratio.  UDP-Glc 4-Epimerase Assay—The velocity of conversion of UDP-Glc to UDP-Gal was determined at 5 mm UDP-Glc (Sigma catalog number U 4625) in a 50-μl volume of 50 mm Tris/HCl, pH 7.4, containing 0.1 mm NAD+and 125 μg·ml-1 acetylated BSA (Sigma catalog number B 2518) at 25 °C. The epimerase reaction was stopped after 10 min with 25 μl of 0.3 m HCl, hydrolyzed at 100 °C for 5 min, and neutralized using a mole equivalent of NaOH. Galactose was quantified in a coupled reaction by adding 50 μl of a solution containing 0.2 units·ml-1 horseradish peroxidase, 4 units·ml-1 galactose oxidase, and 0.1 mm Amplex Red (all from Molecular Probes, catalog number A22179), in a 150 mm Tris/HCl, pH 7.2, 3 mm CaCl2 buffer against a galactose standard in a buffer identical to the epimerase buffer. Because detection of fluorescence produced unsatisfactorily high variability, the absorbance of the oxidized Amplex Red was detected at 560 nm in 96-well microtiter plates (Costar 9017) using a Spectramax 340pc plate reader. The absorbance differential between 200 and 300 s of reaction time typically gave the best linearity of the reaction. Amplex Red was handled to ensure minimal light exposure. To ensure linearity of the epimerase reaction, a range of enzyme concentrations was tested. To ensure substrate saturation, 5-9 mm UDP-Glc was used. The direct determination of Km UDP-Glc at low substrate concentrations did not yield reproducible data because of low signal to noise ratio.  Therefore, the value was derived from the Haldane relationship shown in Equation 1 (CITATION), using Keq of 0.33 and the kinetic constants corresponding to the highest rate of UDP-Gal conversion.  Overexpression of UGEs in A. thaliana—UGE2, -3, and -4 were amplified using the following oligonucleotides: UGE2/STA/Xba, TCTAGATGGCGAAGAGTGTTTTGG; UGE2/STO/Eco, GAATTCTTATGAAGAGGAGCCATTG; UGE3/STA/Xba, TCTAGATGGGTTCTTCTGTGGAAC; UGE3/STO/Bam, GGATCCTCAAGGCTTCTTCTGGAAAC; R1/STA/Xba, TCTAGATGGTTGGGAATATTCTGGTGACCGGTGGT; and R1/STO/EcoRI, GAATTCTTATGTTGAGTTTGGTGAAGAACCGT. Plasmid preparations of bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) genomic clones were used as PCR templates (UGE2, T32A16; UGE3, F16M19; and UGE4, F15H21). The bacterial galE gene (GenBank™ accession number X06226; base 1-1071) was amplified using the following oligonucleotides: GALE/STA/Xba, TCTAGATGAGAGTTCTGGTTACCGGTGGT; GALE/STO/Eco, GAATTCTTAATCGGGATATCCCTGTGGATG; and an E. coli DH5α colony as the template. PCR products were cloned into pGEM-T (Promega) and sequenced. After release of the inserts by restriction digest, the fragments were cloned into pGREENII containing a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter terminator cassette and Basta resistance (CITATION). A. thaliana UGE4rhd1-1 mutant plants were transformed using vacuum infiltration with Agrobacterium strain GV3101 containing overexpression constructs (CITATION). The transgenic line ES7-2overexpressing UGE1 cDNA (CITATION) was kindly provided by P. Dörmann.  Translational UGE Fluorescent Protein Fusions—To generate carboxyl-terminal translational fusions between UGE genes and enhanced fluorescent protein (ECFP), the genomic sequences of UGE1, UGE2, and UGE4, including 5′-upstream regions of 1.5, 1.7, and 1.5 kb, respectively, were amplified from BAC DNA using the following primers: SphU1-5′-F, TTACGAGCATGCCGCGGCGACTGCAGAAATAGTTGTAAGATACTAAG; XmaU1-3′-R, TGATACCCGGGGTGAAAGCTTATTCTGGTAACCCCATGGATTATT; SphU2-F, TTACGAGCATGCTCTAGATGGCCTCAGTTAATTCAGGCGAAAG; XmaU2-R, TGATACCCGGGGTGATGAAGAGGAGCCATTGGAGGAGGAATTGTA; SphR1-F, TTACGAGCATGCCGCGGACAAAACTTCGTTGTATCTATTTAGG; and XmaR1-R, TGATACCCGGGGTGATGTTGAGTTTGGTGAAGAACCGTAAC. The products were cloned into pGEM-T (Promega) and sequenced. Using the SphI and XmaI restriction sites, correct inserts were cloned into pECFP (Clontech). Terminator regions were amplified and sequenced after pGEM-T subcloning using the following oligonucleotides: NotU1-3′-F, TGCGGCCGCATTTACTTCTTTTGTTTGGAGTTACC; ApaU1-3′-R, TGGGCCCATAAATGGATATTGTAAGGCTAATC; NotU2-3′-F, TGCGGCCGCTTCTCCTTTTTTAATTTTTATTTTGCC; ApaU2-3′-R, TGGGCCCTTCGGTGATTTGTTATTGTGGAC; NotIR1-3′-F, ACTATGTAAGTGCGGCCGCTAACGAAGCTAATGTATCCAACACTCC; and ApaIR1-3′-R, ATAGAATTGTTGGGCCCGCAAAATATTTTTTCGGCAAAACCGT. The terminator regions were added after the ECFP stop codon using NotI and ApaI digestion of the corresponding UGE:CFP recombinant clones. The resulting fusion constructs were cloned into pGREEN0229 (CITATION) and transformed into uge4 mutant and wild type plants as described above. To generate an amino-terminal GFP fusion of UGE4, the DNA of enhanced green fluorescent protein (Clontech) was generated using the following oligonucleotide primers: CY-GFP-F, ATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGAGCTGTTCACC; CY-GFP-AscI, CCGCGGCGCGCCCTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATGCC. The UGE4 promoter was amplified using the following oligonucleotide primers: R1/5′XHO-F, AAACTCGAGTCACACACTTGTCAACAAACCCGGTTAG; R1/5′CY-GFP-R, CTCGCCCTTGCTCACCATCGAAGCTCGAAGAGGCGATGAAGAAAGAGAG. The enhanced green fluorescent protein sequence and the UGE4 promoter sequence were fused by mixing the purified PCR products and amplification using the oligonucleotides R1/5′XHO-F and CY-GFP-AscI. The resulting product was cloned into pGEM-T and sequenced. The UGE4 gene including the terminator region was amplified using the following oligonucleotide primers: R1/STA/AscI, AAGGGCGCGCCGATGGTTGGGAATATTCTGGTGACCGGTGGT; Not-R1/3′, AAAAGGAAAAGCGGCCGCATTTTTATATAAATGAAATGAGAATGTGGATG, and were cloned into pGEM-T and sequenced. The UGE4 sequence was excised using AscI and NotI and cloned into the RHD1 promoter:GFP fusion containing clone. The resulting fusion was cloned into pGREEN0229 (CITATION) and transformed into uge4 mutants as described above.  UGE4-specific Antibodies—UGE4-specific antiserum was raised commercially (BioGenes, Berlin) by immunization of rabbits with a peptide corresponding to the 16 carboxyl-terminal amino acid residues of UGE4 conjugated to keyhole limpet hemocyanin. Specific antibodies were subsequently affinity-purified using immobilized peptide. The rhd1-4 mutant, that contains a premature stop codon before the carboxyl-terminal half of UGE4 (CITATION), served as control in various assays. In microscopic applications, the antiserum 3605g produced an unspecific signal in cell walls but bound specifically to intracellular UGE4.  Immunogold Transmission Electron Microscopy—Roots of 4-day-old seedlings were excised and were vacuum-infiltrated for 5 min with MES (20 mm). The samples were high pressure frozen, freeze-substituted in acetone containing 0.5% uranyl acetate, and embedded in LR white resin as described previously (CITATION). Ultrathin sections of ∼90 nm were taken using a Leica UC6 ultramicrotome (Leica, Milton Keynes, UK) and picked up on pyroxylin- and carbon-coated gold grids. For immunogold labeling, grids were incubated on drops of 50 mm glycine/PBS for 15 min followed by drops of pre-prepared Aurion blocking buffer (5% BSA, 0.1% cold water fish skin gelatin, 5-10% normal goat serum, 15 mm NaN3/PBS, pH 7.4) (Aurion, Netherlands) for 30 min and then equilibrated in 0.1% BSA-C/PBS (Aurion, Netherlands). Grids were incubated with the primary antibody diluted in equilibration buffer overnight at 4 °C, washed five times in equilibration buffer, and incubated for 3 h with the secondary antibody conjugated to 10 nm gold (BioCell, Agar Scientific Ltd., Essex, UK) diluted 1:50 in equilibration buffer. After four washes in equilibration buffer, 20-min washes three times in PBS and 30-min washes two times in water, the grids were contrast-stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate before observation in a Jeol 1200 EX transmission electron microscope at 80 kV. Photographic images were taken using Kodak electron image film.  Meta-analysis of Publicly Available Expression Data—Data on organ-specific expression were obtained from the GENEVESTIGATOR data base (CITATION) using the Gene Atlas tool. Expression signals for each UGE gene were normalized. Cell type-specific gene expression data in root tips were published previously (CITATION), and spatial representations were queried online. The degree of co-expression between individual genes was queried in the comprehensive systems biology data base (CSB.DB) (CITATION) or by an alternative approach using pre-processing of raw data and discretization of signal changes between time points (CITATION). This method preserves the entire set of genes queried, and its results match well with other algorithms. Experimental details and the full result of this analysis are available online in the Arabidopsis Systems Interaction data base.    [[FIGURE]] Gel Filtration (Size Exclusion) Chromatography—Freshly purified UGE protein (0.1-1.0 mg) was buffer exchanged into gel filtration buffer (20 mm Tris/HCl, pH 7.4, 150 mm NaCl) using an Amicon Ultra-4 centrifugal filter unit with a 10-kDa nominal molecular weight limit (Millipore). The protein solution was separated on a Superdex 200 HR 10/30 gel filtration column (Amersham Biosciences) with a 0.5 ml·min-1 flow rate. At the column outlet the absorption at 280 nm was measured online to detect eluting proteins. The molecular weights corresponding to the protein peaks in the eluate were calculated from the elution volume using a standard curve generated with the following proteins of known molecular weight: β-amylase, 200 kDa; alcohol dehydrogenase, 150 kDa; carbonic anhydrase, 29 kDa; and cytochrome c, 12.4 kDa.  Dynamic Light Scattering—The hydrodynamic radius of freshly purified His-tagged UGE protein (80-800 μg/ml) filtered through a 0.1-μm Ultrafree-MC centrifugal filter unit (Millipore) was measured with a DynaPro99 Dynamic Light Scattering instrument (Protein Solutions) at 20 °C. Results were analyzed using the instrument control software Dynamics (Protein Solutions). The molecular weight was calculated from the hydrodynamic radius using the default volume shape hydration model. 
