!~ABS~! Boron (B) is essential in plants but often present at low concentrations in the environment. To investigate how plants survive under conditions of B limitation, we conducted a transcriptome analysis and identified NIP5;1, a member of the major intrinsic protein family, as a gene upregulated in B-deficient roots of Arabidopsis thaliana. Promoter–β-glucuronidase fusions indicated that NIP5;1 is strongly upregulated in the root elongation zone and the root hair zone under B limitation, and green fluorescent protein–tagged NIP5;1 proteins localized to the plasma membrane. Expression in Xenopus laevis oocytes demonstrated that NIP5;1 facilitated the transport of boric acid in addition to water. Importantly, two T-DNA insertion lines of NIP5;1 displayed lower boric acid uptake into roots, lower biomass production, and increased sensitivity of root and shoot development to B deficiency. These results identify NIP5;1 as a major plasma membrane boric acid channel crucial for the B uptake required for plant growth and development under B limitation.
!~RES~! In the search for adaptive plant responses to B deficiency, we screened for genes upregulated in B-deficient Arabidopsis roots. Plants were hydroponically grown for 39 d in the presence of 150 μM B and then transferred to nutrient solution supplied with 150 or 0.3 μM B and incubated for another 3 d. These B-deficient growth conditions slightly affected root elongation but did not induce more severe damage to the plants (data not shown). Total RNA was isolated from the roots and subjected to microarray analysis using Affymetrix GeneChips containing 8300 Arabidopsis genes. Twelve genes turned out to be upregulated greater than threefold under B deficiency (data not shown). To verify the results from the microarray analysis, mRNA levels of these genes were quantified using RT-mediated real-time PCR on total RNA obtained from two independent experiments. Among the 12 candidate genes, only mRNA levels of NIP5;1 were repeatedly upregulated in B-deficient roots. When normalized to those of Elongation Factor 1α, the mRNA levels of NIP5;1 were 12.0 or 12.8 times higher under B-deficient growth conditions than under adequate B supply (data not shown). To investigate in more detail the regulation of NIP5;1, a time course of mRNA accumulation in roots was examined by RT-mediated real-time PCR analysis (Figure 1A ). When plants were grown at 100 μM B (+B) for 34 d and then transferred to medium with 0.1 μM B (−B), NIP5;1 mRNA levels increased within several hours and peaked after 24 h with a 15-fold induction (Figure 1A). Resupply of 100 μM B to plants starved for 24 h (Re +B) decreased NIP5;1 mRNA levels within 24 h. These results clearly demonstrated a B-dependent regulation of NIP5;1 mRNA accumulation in Arabidopsis roots. [[FIGURE]] We then examined the cell type–specific expression of NIP5;1 in the T2 and T3 generations of transgenic Columbia (Col-0) plants expressing the β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene under the control of the NIP5;1 promoter. In seven independent lines, GUS activity was consistently observed in roots and appeared much stronger in plants grown under low B supply (0.3 μM B) compared with plants grown under high B supply (100 μM B) (Figure 1B). These results suggest that the regulation of transcript accumulation observed by the microarray and RT-PCR analyses is exerted mainly at the level of transcription. GUS activity in the primary root (Figures 1B and 1C) and in lateral roots (Figure 1B) was strongest in the elongation zone and decreased toward the root hair zone and the basal zone. In cross sections of the root hair zone (Figure 1D) and the elongation zone (Figure 1E), GUS activity was observed at high levels in epidermal, cortical, and endodermal cells but weakly in stelar cells. In aboveground tissues, GUS activity was barely detectable, both in vegetative (Figure 1B) and in reproductive (data not shown) growth stages. Soybean NOD26, the first identified member of the NIP subfamily in plants, is located at the peribacteroid membrane of nitrogen-fixing symbiosomes in root nodules (CITATION; CITATION). However, subcellular localization of NIPs in nonlegumes has not yet been reported. To investigate the subcellular localization of NIP5;1, green fluorescent protein (GFP) alone or GFP fused either C-terminally (NIP5;1-GFP) or N-terminally (GFP-NIP5;1) to NIP5;1 was expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts under the control of a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S RNA promoter (Figure 2 ). GFP alone stained the cytoplasm localized at the cell periphery around a large central vacuole. By contrast, NIP5;1 fusion to GFP confined fluorescence to a fine ring at the extreme cell periphery, indicating plasma membrane localization of the NIP5;1 protein. [[FIGURE]] Among all plant MIPs, NIPs in particular have been shown to transport small uncharged molecules such as glycerol and urea, in addition to water (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In solution at physiological pH, B mainly exists as boric acid, a small uncharged molecule with a molecular radius of 2.573 Å, which is similar in size to urea (2.618 Å) (CITATION). These considerations and the B-dependent expression led us to hypothesize that NIP5;1 may function as a boric acid channel. To test this hypothesis, we expressed NIP5;1 in Xenopus oocytes and first investigated the water transport function by an osmotic swelling assay. Arabidopsis PIP2;1 was used as a control for an efficient water channel (CITATION). When transferred from ND96 solution (220 mosmol/kg; see Methods for composition) to a twofold-diluted ND96 solution, PIP2;1-expressing oocytes showed a linear increase of the oocyte volume with time compared with noninjected oocytes, which remained almost unchanged (Figure 3A ). By contrast, NIP5;1-expressing oocytes did not show a significant difference in the oocyte volume relative to noninjected oocytes after transfer to the twofold-diluted ND96 solution (data not shown). A greater increase in volume compared with noninjected oocytes was observed only when NIP5;1-expressing oocytes were transferred to a fivefold-diluted ND96 solution (Figure 3B). These results showed that NIP5;1 transports water but much less efficiently than PIP2;1 under our experimental conditions. [[FIGURE]] Subsequently, boric acid transport was investigated by transferring oocytes from ND96 solution (220 mosmol/kg) to an isotonic fivefold-diluted ND96 solution supplemented with boric acid to maintain the osmolarity at 220 mosmol/kg. It was presumed that the increase in oocyte volume corresponds to the water influx after the osmotic gradient generated by boric acid uptake. NIP5;1-expressing oocytes showed significant swelling, whereas noninjected oocytes shrunk slightly (Figure 3C). Importantly, PIP2;1-expressing oocytes also failed to show significant swelling under these conditions (Figure 3C) despite their high water transport capacity (Figure 3A). This observation indicated that an endogenous boric acid uptake activity of oocytes is not sufficient to generate an osmotic gradient and subsequent swelling and that NIP5;1, but not PIP2;1, transports boric acid under these conditions. To independently verify boric acid uptake activity of NIP5;1, B accumulation in oocytes was measured directly. NIP5;1-expressing oocytes accumulated fivefold to ninefold more B than noninjected oocytes when incubated at 5 mM boric acid (Figure 3D). Consistent with the observation from the swelling assay, PIP2;1-expressing oocytes did not accumulate B relative to noninjected oocytes (data not shown). These results established that NIP5;1 transports boric acid more efficiently and water less efficiently than PIP2;1 in Xenopus oocytes. It cannot be excluded that NIP5;1 transports other substrates in addition to boric acid and water. To investigate the function of NIP5;1 in Arabidopsis plants, we obtained two independent mutant alleles for NIP5;1. SALK_122287, a T-DNA insertion line in the Col-0 background, was obtained from the Salk Institute and named nip5;1-1. FLAG_250F08, a T-DNA insertion line in the Wassilewskija (Ws) background, was obtained from the Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique (INRA) and named nip5;1-2. Homozygous lines for each T-DNA insertion were selected by PCR analysis, and the positions of the T-DNA insertion sites were verified by sequencing (Figure 4A ). In nip5;1-1, the corresponding T-DNA insertion was localized in the first intron of the NIP5;1 open reading frame (ORF), whereas in nip5;1-2, the T-DNA was located in the predicted promoter region of NIP5;1, 823 bp upstream of the putative translation start site. [[FIGURE]] Accumulation of NIP5;1 mRNA in the insertion lines and the corresponding wild-type plants was quantified by RT-mediated real-time PCR using primers for amplification of the first and second exons (Figure 4A). The plants were grown on solidified nutrient medium containing 100 μM B for 11 d and then transferred to medium containing 100 or 0.1 μM B for 24 h. The NIP5;1 mRNA levels in roots of nip5;1-1 mutant plants were restricted to 1.2 and 0.8% of those of the Col-0 plants at 100 and 0.1 μM B, respectively (Figure 4B). The mRNA levels in roots of nip5;1-2 mutant plants were 53 and 9.7% of those of wild-type Ws plants at 100 and 0.1 μM B, respectively. Similar to the results obtained in the Col-0 plants grown hydroponically (Figure 1A), NIP5;1 mRNA levels were higher at 0.1 μM B than at 100 μM B, with 13-, 9-, and 14-fold inductions in the Col-0, nip5;1-1, and Ws plants, respectively (Figure 4B). However, in nip5;1-2 mutants, the NIP5;1 mRNA level at 0.1 μM B was reduced to 2.5-fold of that at 100 μM B, suggesting that B-dependent transcriptional regulation of NIP5;1 was inhibited by the T-DNA insertion at 823 bp upstream of the putative translation start site. Shoot and root growth of the insertion lines was observed during vegetative growth on solidified nutrient medium containing various concentrations of B. Consistent with the general observation in different plant species, root growth of wild-type Arabidopsis plants was more sensitive to B deficiency than shoot growth (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) (Figures 5A to 5C). Relative to their corresponding wild-type plants, root and shoot growth of nip5;1-1 and nip5;1-2 plants was reduced when B was supplied at concentrations of <10 or <1 μM, respectively (Figures 5B and 5C). At 0.1 μM B, both insertion lines showed a striking growth retardation, including cessation of main root growth, no development of lateral roots, and no further expansion of rosette leaves (Figure 5A). At 3 μM B, elongation of lateral roots was inhibited and the expansion of rosette leaves was retarded in both insertion lines (Figure 5A). When B was supplied at concentrations of 30 μM or higher, both insertion lines grew similar to the corresponding wild-type plants (Figures 5A to 5C). Notably, the stronger growth depression in nip5;1-1 coincided with the lower level of NIP5;1 transcripts relative to nip5;1-2 (Figure 4B). These observations demonstrate a requirement of NIP5;1 for shoot and root growth of Arabidopsis plants under B-deficient growth conditions. [[FIGURE]] We subsequently analyzed the root phenotype of 7-d-old nip5;1-1 plants in more detail. Root tips of nip5;1-1 were stunted and root hair density was increased dramatically when plants were grown under B deficiency, whereas at adequate B supply these morphological differences disappeared (Figure 5D). A quantitative determination of the longitudinal length of epidermis cells in the root hair zone revealed a substantial reduction of cell length in the insertion line when grown under B limitation. The cell length of the insertion line was reduced to 43 or 66% relative to that of wild-type plants supplied with 0.3 or 1 μM B, respectively (Figure 5E). However, the cell length was similar between the mutant and Col-0 plants at 30 μM B (Figure 5E). Thus, root growth inhibition in B-deficient nip5;1 plants correlated closely with a reduction in cell elongation. It is widely known that plants are more sensitive to B limitation during reproductive growth than during vegetative growth, and marked seed yield reductions have been reported under B deficiency without other symptoms being expressed during vegetative growth (CITATION). To investigate the effect of B limitation on reproductive growth, nip5;1 plants were grown hydroponically under long-day conditions and supplied with various concentrations of B (Figure 6 ). At 3 μM B, rosette leaves were small, misshaped, and wrinkled, and inflorescences did not develop properly in nip5;1-1 plants (Figure 6A). Short internodes and a bushy appearance were observed in nip5;1-1 plants at 10 μM B and in nip5;1-2 plants at 3 μM B (Figure 6A). The development of flowers and siliques was inhibited in nip5;1-1 and nip5;1-2 plants when B was supplied at 15 and 10 μM or lower, respectively (Figures 6A and 6B). However, plants of both insertion lines returned to generative growth and set seeds at the same age as wild-type plants when B was supplied at 30 μM or higher (Figure 6A). These observations demonstrate that NIP5;1 is required for proper reproductive development even under moderate B limitation. The slight differences in the sensitivity to various B levels between the two mutant alleles coincided with their NIP5;1 expression levels (Figure 4B) and might additionally be attributable to the different sensitivity of the two ecotypes to B limitation. [[FIGURE]] To address the physiological function of NIP5;1 in B transport, B concentrations in roots and shoots of the insertion lines were compared with those of wild-type plants. For this purpose, plants were grown hydroponically under short-day conditions for 37 d with supply of 3, 30, or 150 μM B. At 3 μM B, roots and shoots of nip5;1-1 and nip5;1-2 plants had strongly reduced B concentrations, whereas at 150 μM B, insertion lines accumulated similar amounts of B in their root and shoot tissues as the corresponding wild-type plants (Figures 7A and 7B). The B concentration in nip5;1-1 roots grown at 3 μM B was not determined because of defective root growth. When grown at 3 μM B, B concentrations in roots and shoots of nip5;1-2 plants were 44 and 78% lower than those of Ws plants, respectively. These results showed that B concentrations in both roots and shoots were reduced in nip5;1 plants under limited but not under adequate B supply. [[FIGURE]] We subsequently analyzed the time course of B uptake using stable isotopes of B. For this purpose, nip5;1-1 and Col-0 wild-type plants were grown under short-day conditions in the presence of 100 μM 11B-enriched B for 27 d and then subjected to 100 μM 11B-enriched B (high B) or 0.1 μM 11B-enriched B (low B) for 24 h. Then, the plants were exposed to 10 μM 10B-enriched B, and 10B concentrations in roots and shoots were monitored during 120 min (Figures 7C and 7D). In plants pretreated with high B, there was no significant difference in 10B uptake into roots between nip5;1-1 and wild-type plants (Figure 7C). However, in wild-type plants pretreated with low B, 10B uptake into roots was 5.6 times higher than in mutant plants within the first 20 min and saturated after longer incubation times. In the same plants, 10B concentrations in shoots increased continuously during the 120-min time course, whereas they did not increase significantly in wild-type plants pretreated with high B or in nip5;1-1 plants under any conditions (Figure 7D). These results indicated that NIP5;1 is required for efficient B uptake into roots and, hence, for B translocation to the shoot under B limitation.
!~MM~! Col-0 and Ws ecotypes of Arabidopsis thaliana were obtained from the ABRC. Information about the T-DNA mutant in the Col-0 ecotype was obtained from the SIGnAL database (CITATION), and the seeds were obtained from the ABRC. Information about the T-DNA mutant in the Ws ecotype was obtained from the FLAGdb/FST (CITATION), and the seeds were obtained from the INRA. The genotype of plants was determined by PCR using left and right border–specific primers and gene-specific primers. Plant growth media were prepared according to CITATION and contained various concentrations of B. The growth conditions for vertically placed solidified medium as well as the method of hydroponic plant culture for the microarray experiment, the phenotypic analysis of reproductive growth, and the determination of B accumulation were described previously (CITATION). For the time-course analysis of mRNA levels and the tracer experiment, plants were grown on nylon mesh placed on solidified medium and then transferred to hydroponic medium according to CITATION. Plants were grown under short-day conditions (10-h/14-h light/dark cycle) for the time-course analysis of mRNA levels, the determination of B accumulation, and the tracer experiments and under long-day conditions (16-h/8-h light/dark cycle) for other experiments. For the tracer experiment using stable isotopes of B, the plants were supplied with 11B-enriched boric acid (99%; Cambridge Isotope Laboratories) instead of boric acid of natural abundance (10B:11B = 19.9:80.1). The plants were grown and supplied with 11B-enriched boric acid and then transferred to medium with 10 μM 10B-enriched boric acid (99%; Cambridge Isotope Laboratories). Preparation of samples and B isotope determination by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry were as described previously (CITATION). Arabidopsis GeneChips (Affymetrix) containing 8300 genes were analyzed according to the manufacturer's protocol. Reverse transcription-mediated real-time PCR analysis was performed as described by CITATION. The primers used in the PCR were 5′-CACCGATTTTCCCTCTCCTGAT-3′ and 5′-GCATGCAGCGTTACCGATTA-3′ for NIP5;1 and 5′-CCTTGGTGTCAAGCAGATGA-3′ and 5′-TGAAGACACCTCCTTGATGATTT-3′ for Elongation Factor 1α. The 2.5-kb region upstream of the initiation codon of NIP5;1 was amplified by PCR from BAC clone F24G24 (obtained from the ABRC) using primers 5′-GGTGGATCCGAAAGCAAGCATTCCCTG-3′ and 5′-GAGCCATGGCCAACGTTTTTTTTTTTGGT-3′. Using BamHI and NcoI, the amplified fragment was subcloned into pTF456 carrying GUS and the terminator of the nopaline synthase gene. pTF456 was generated from pBI221 (CITATION) and carries a modified GUS ORF that contained six extra nucleotides (ATGGTA) encoding Met-Val at the 5′ end of the original GUS ORF to generate a NcoI site. The BamHI–NotI fragment of the resulting plasmid (pMW1) was subcloned into the BamHI–Bsp120-I vector fragment of the binary vector pTkan+ (kindly provided by K. Schumacher). Col-0 plants were transformed via the Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated floral dip method (CITATION) with the NIP5;1 promoter (the 2.5-kb region upstream of the initiation codon)–GUS construct. GUS staining and root cross-sectioning were performed as described by CITATION. The sections were counterstained with 0.05% ruthenium red (Sigma-Aldrich) for 30 s. The NIP5;1-sGFP fusion was constructed as follows. The NIP5;1 ORF was amplified by PCR from the NIP5;1 cDNA clone RZL55b01, obtained from the Kazusa DNA Research Institute, using primers 5′-AATCTAGAACGTTGGAAATGGCTCCACCGGA-3′ and 5′-GAAAACCATGGCTCCTCCTCCTCCACGACGAAAGCTCCTAACCGGAC-3′. The amplified fragment was A-tailed and cloned into the pGEM-T Easy vector (Promega) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The DNA sequence of the cloned PCR product was confirmed to be error-free. The XbaI–NcoI fragment carrying the NIP5;1 ORF was ligated with the NcoI–EcoRI fragment of pTH2 (CITATION) carrying sGFP, the terminator of the nopaline synthase gene, and the XbaI–EcoRI vector fragment of pBI221 (CITATION). The resulting plasmid (NIP5;1-sGFP in pBI221) carried a NIP5;1-sGFP fusion gene under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S RNA promoter. In this construction process, a linker encoding five amino acids (Gly-Gly-Gly-Gly-Ala) was inserted between the NIP5;1 and sGFP ORFs. The sGFP-NIP5;1 fusion was constructed as follows. The NIP5;1 ORF was amplified by PCR from the NIP5;1 cDNA clone CERES36655, obtained from Ceres, using primers 5′-AAATGTACAAGATGGCTCCACCGGAGGCTGA-3′ and 5′-AACTGCAGACAGCGGCCGCACTCACTTAACGACGAAAGCTC-3′. The amplified fragment was A-tailed and cloned into the pGEM-T Easy vector (Promega). The DNA sequence of the cloned PCR product was confirmed to be error-free. The NIP5;1 ORF was subcloned into pTH2 (CITATION) at the BsrGI and NotI recognition sites. The resulting plasmid (sGFP-NIP5;1 in pUC18) carried a sGFP-NIP5;1 fusion gene under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S RNA promoter. Transformation of Arabidopsis protoplasts was performed as described by CITATION. As a control, pCF203 vector carrying the GFP gene under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S RNA promoter was used. Protoplasts were analyzed 2 d after transformation by confocal laser scanning microscopy (Leica TCS-SP). The ORFs of NIP5;1 and PIP2;1 were amplified by PCR from the cDNA clone RZL55b01, obtained from the Kazusa DNA Research Institute and a Col-0 cDNA library (kindly provided by K. Schumacher), respectively. The amplified fragment was A-tailed and cloned into the pGEM-T Easy vector (Promega). Accuracy of the cloned PCR product was confirmed by DNA sequencing. The ORFs were subcloned into pOO2 (CITATION). Capped cRNA was transcribed from the plasmids in vitro using the mMessage mMachine kit (Ambion), after linearization of the plasmid with MluI. Xenopus oocytes were removed from adult female frogs by surgery, manually dissected, and defolliculated using 2 mg/mL collagenase (Boehringer Mannheim) and 1 mg/mL trypsin inhibitor (Sigma-Aldrich). Oocytes (Dumont stage V or VI) were injected with 50 nL of cRNA (NIP5;1, 20 to 30 ng/oocyte; PIP2;1, 5 to 10 ng/oocyte). Oocytes were kept at 16°C for 2 to 3 d in ND96. ND96 solution contained 96 mM NaCl, 2 mM KCl, 1.8 mM CaCl2, 1 mM MgCl2 and 5 mM Hepes, pH 7.4. Swelling of oocytes was monitored with a Leica binocular microscope equipped with a charge-coupled device camera. Photographs were taken from the cross-sectional area of oocytes using Metamorph SPOT software (Universal Imaging). NIH image 1.62 was used to determine oocyte diameters. Volumes of oocytes were calculated assuming spherical geometry. Oocytes incubated in ND96 (220 mosmol/kg) were transferred to five- or two-times-diluted ND96 (44 and 110 mosmol/kg, respectively) for water transport assays or to an isotonic solution containing five-times-diluted ND96 supplemented with boric acid to adjust the osmolarity to 220 mosmol/kg for boric acid transport assays. Oocytes were incubated in ND96 supplemented with 5 mM boric acid. Six oocytes were sampled as a batch and rinsed five times with ice-cold ND96. The oocytes were digested with concentrated nitric acid, and B contents were determined using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry as described previously (CITATION). Roots from 7-d-old plants were stained with 10 μg/mL propidium iodide (Molecular Probes) for 10 min and imaged with a laser scanning confocal microscope (LSM 510; Carl Zeiss) using 543-nm excitation and >585-nm detection. The longitudinal cell length of epidermal cells in the root hair zone was measured using ImageJ software (National Institutes of Health). Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for NIP5;1 and PIP2;1 are At4g10380 and At3g53420, respectively.
