!~ABS~! NAD is a ubiquitous coenzyme involved in oxidation-reduction reactions and is synthesized by way of quinolinate. Animals and some bacteria synthesize quinolinate from tryptophan, whereas other bacteria synthesize quinolinate from aspartate (Asp) using l-Asp oxidase and quinolinate synthase. We show here that Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) uses the Asp-to-quinolinate pathway. The Arabidopsis l-Asp oxidase or quinolinate synthase gene complemented the Escherichia coli mutant defective in the corresponding gene, and T-DNA-based disruption of either of these genes, as well as of the gene coding for the enzyme quinolinate phosphoribosyltransferase, was embryo lethal. An analysis of functional green fluorescent protein-fused constructs and in vitro assays of uptake into isolated chloroplasts demonstrated that these three enzymes are located in the plastid.
!~RES~! Computer searches of the Arabidopsis genome database revealed that the protein encoded by At5g14760 is significantly homologous to E. coli AO (42% identity and E-value of 1 × e−104), whereas the protein encoded by At5g50210 is a homolog of E. coli QS (24% identity and E-value of 1 × e−10). In contrast, no significant homology with the enzymes in the kynurenine pathway was found, one exception being the protein encoded by At5g15860, which was moderately homologous to mouse arylformamidase (26% identity and E-value of 4 × e−14; CITATION). To test whether At5g14760 and At5g50210, respectively, encode AO and QS, these Arabidopsis genes were introduced and expressed in E. coli mutants deficient in AO or QS (Fig. 2 ). Because the E. coli strains nadB− and nadA− do not express AO and QS, respectively, and cannot synthesize NAD via the de novo pathway, they require a supplement of nicotinic acid in minimal medium to synthesize NAD via the salvage pathway. When At5g14760 was expressed in the nadB− genotype, E. coli cells were able to form colonies on minimal medium lacking nicotinic acid. Likewise, expression of At5g50210 in the nadA− genotype also complemented the requirement of an exogenous source of nicotinic acid for growth. These results suggest that At5g14760 and At5g50210 indeed encode AO and QS, respectively. [[FIGURE]] If Arabidopsis synthesizes NAD de novo exclusively from Asp, null alleles of AO and QS should be lethal. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed phenotypes of T-DNA insertion alleles of AO and QS, which are both single genes in the Arabidopsis genome (Fig. 3 ). We also characterized a transposon insertion allele of QPT (Fig. 3), a presumably essential gene utilized in both the Asp and kynurenine pathways (Fig. 1). Tobacco QPT has been shown to complement a QPT-deficient E. coli strain (CITATION) and Arabidopsis QPT is encoded at a single locus. In the ao allele (SALK_013920) obtained from the SALK collection, an inverted tandem insert of T-DNA was found in the seventh exon of AO 2,318 to 2,365 bp downstream of the translational start site (with the first adenine in ATG numbered as 1), whereas inverted T-DNAs were inserted in the first exon of QS between 592 and 622 bp in the qs allele (SALK_075260). The qpt allele (EGT_3.031643) obtained from the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory collection contained a dissociation transposon in the third exon of QPT 489 bp from the translational start site. The nucleotides between 458 and 488 bp were duplicated at the insertion site. [[FIGURE]] We could not identify lines with a homozygous disruption for AO, QS, or QPT among the seeds obtained from the stock center. When plants heterozygous for the T-DNA or transposon insertion were self pollinated, we found wild-type and heterozygous plants at a 1:2 ratio, but no homozygous plants in the next generation (Table I ). These segregation data are consistent with the hypothesis that homozygous null alleles for the AO, QS, and QPT genes do not grow into viable seedlings. Indeed, when immature siliques of the self-pollinated heterozygous plants were cut open, roughly 25% of the seeds they contained were found to be small and unviable (Fig. 4B ; data not shown). Genetic analysis of ao, qs, and qpt mutants X2 values were calculated based on a 2:1 ratio of heterozygous and wild-type plants. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the observed embryo-lethal phenotypes are caused by disruption of AO, QS, and QPT, we transformed the heterozygous plants with a vector that constitutively expresses the wild-type AO, QS, or QPT protein fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) at the C terminus. Among the progeny of the transformants, we identified several plants that were homozygous for the T-DNA or transposon insertion alleles of AO, QS, and QPT and possessed the relevant transgenes (Fig. 4C). Expression of the transgenes was confirmed by detection of GFP fluorescence in the transgenic plants (see below). The newly introduced transgenes efficiently complemented the presumed embryo-lethal phenotypes of the homozygous null alleles, as shown by the similar growth and development of the complemented plants compared with the wild type (Fig. 4A). Arabidopsis AO, QS, and QPT contain extra amino acid sequences at their N termini relative to their E. coli counterparts. The computer programs Predotar (CITATION; http://urgi.infobiogen.fr/predotar/predotar.html) and TargetP (CITATION; http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP), respectively, predicted that Arabidopsis AO and QS are targeted to plastids (0.98 and 0.33 for AO and 0.98 and 0.94 for QS), whereas Arabidopsis QPT is localized to mitochondoria (0.70 and 0.60). To determine experimentally the subcellular distribution of these Arabidopsis proteins, we first analyzed transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings expressing AO-GFP, QS-GFP, or QPT-GFP in the respective homozygous null backgrounds as described above. Complementation of the embryo-lethal phenotypes by expression of the transgenes suggests that these GFP-fused proteins are active enzymes targeted to their proper subcellular locations. Fluorescence microscopic observation of stomata guard cells in stable Arabidopsis transformants confirmed that nonfused GFP was present in the cytoplasm and the nucleus, whereas GFP fused to the transit peptide of the small subunit of Rubisco at the N terminus (TP-GFP; CITATION) was targeted to the chloroplast (Fig. 5 , A and B). We found that AO-GFP, QS-GFP, and QPT-GFP are all distributed to the chloroplast (Fig. 5, D–F). In the root tissue, fluorescence of AO-GFP, QS-GFP, and QPT-GFP was observed in small, oblique organelles that resembled undifferentiated plastids (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] We next conducted an in vitro uptake assay using isolated chloroplasts (Fig. 6 ). Full-length forms of AO, QS, and QPT were synthesized with an in vitro transcription-translation system using reticulocyte lysates and then incubated with purified chloroplasts from pea (Pisum sativum) seedlings. Intact chloroplasts were recovered after the reaction and were found to contain the imported substrates that had been processed into smaller polypeptides. These processed proteins corresponded to AO, QS, or QPT upon cleavage of the predicted transit peptides. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Escherichia coli strains (E. coli Genetic Stock Center nos. 7419, lam nadB51∷Tn10 rph-1 and 6692, and lam nadA50∷Tn10 relA1 rpsE2130 [SpcR]) have disruptions in the nadB gene encoding AO and in the nadA gene encoding QS, respectively, and were used for the complementation assay. The entire open reading frames of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) AO and Arabidopsis QS were amplified from the Institute of Physical and Chemical Research cDNA clones pda01728 and pda01949 (http://www.brc.riken.jp), respectively, by PCR using the primer pair 5′-GGTTCCATGGCGGCTCATGTTTCTACTGGAAAC-3′ and 5′-GGCCCTCGAGTGCAATCAATAAGTGAGCTGCTA-3′ for AO; and 5′-TTAACCATGGCGTTAGCTCTCTCCGTCGCACCT-3′ and 5′-GGCCCTCGAGTTCTCTTGCTCTCACAACTTAAT-3′ for QS. The forward primers contained NcoI sites, whereas the reverse primers contained XhoI sites. The PCR products were cloned into the vector pGEM-T (Promega), excised as NcoI-XhoI fragments, and cloned into the expression vector pTrcHis-2C (Invitrogen). The resultant plasmids pTrcHis-2C-AtAO and pTrcHis-2C-AtQS were introduced into the E. coli mutant strains Genetic Stock Center nos. 7419 and 6692, respectively, which were then grown on M9 minimal medium containing 50 μg/mL ampicillin and 1 mm isopropylthio-β-d-galactoside, with or without 1 μm nicotinic acid. T-DNA insertion lines of AO (SALK_013920) and QS (SALK_075260) were generated at the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory (http://signal.salk.edu) and obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Centre. A transposon insertion line of QPT (EGT_3.031643) was obtained from the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory (http://genetrap.cshl.org). T-DNA insertion sites were analyzed by PCR and then by sequencing the T-DNA-genome junctions, using as primers 5′-CCCATCAAACTACAAACTGCTA-3′ and 5′-CAAATAAGAACAAAAACTCCTG-3′ for AO; 5′-AACAGAAATCAAACAACAAATC-3′ and 5′-GACCCCTAACCCTTCTCCTAAT-3′ for QS; and 5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAACT-3′ for the left border sequence of T-DNA. The transposon insertion site in QPT was analyzed after amplifying the transposon-genome junction regions, using as primers 5′-TAGCTGAAGATGCTGGTCATACAGG-3′ and 5′-TGCCATTAACTGCAGGAAACAGAC-3′ for QPT; and 5′-ACCCGACCGGATCGTATCGGT-3′ and 5′-GAAACGGTCGGGAAACTAGCTCTAC-3′ for transposon terminal sequences. Arabidopsis seedlings were grown on Murashige and Skoog salt agar plates without antibiotics at 22°C under a 16-h light/8-h dark cycle, and were analyzed for the presence of the T-DNA or transposon insertions by genomic PCR using the above primers. The coding regions lacking the stop codons were amplified from the Arabidopsis cDNA clones of AO, QS, and QPT, using as primers 5′-AAAAAGCAGGCTCGCGAGCTTTAAGGTCGGAAA-3′ and 5′-AGAAAGCTGGGTCGCAATCAATAAGTGAGCTGC-3′ for AO; 5′-AAAAAGCAGGCTCGACTGCTTCCAATGGCGTTAG-3′ and 5′-AGAAAGCTGGGTCTCTCTTGCTCTCACAACTTAAT-3′ for QS; and 5′-AAAAAGCAGGCTCGACAATGATCTCTGTCTCTC-3′ and 5′-AGAAAGCTGGGTCCGATGTTCTCTGTGCTCGT-3′ for QPT, and cloned into the pGWB5 Gateway binary vector (obtained from T. Nakagawa, Shimane University) by way of the pDONER221 entry vector (Invitrogen). The transgene in pGWB5 is expressed as a C-terminal GFP-fused protein under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase terminator. The constructs were introduced into the Arabidopsis lines hemizygous for the T-DNA and transposon insertion at the AO, QS, or QPT locus, using the Agrobacterium-mediated infiltration method (CITATION). An Arabidopsis plastid marker line that expresses GFP fused to the plastid transit peptide of the small subunit of Rubisco was provided by Y. Niwa (University of Shizuoka). The presence of GFP fusion transgenes in the Arabidopsis genome was confirmed by PCR using the primer pair 5′-TCCTACAACAGCTAGTTGGA-3′ and 5′-CGGCCATGATATAGACGTTG-3′ for AO-GFP; 5′-TGTCGGGTGTGAGCCGATAC-3′ and 5′-TGTGATCGCGCTTCTCGTTG-3′ for QS-GFP; and 5′-GAGGTGGGAAGAAGGACCAA-3′ and 5′-GGCGGACTTGAAGAAGTCGT-3′ for QPT-GFP. Thin sections of the leaf epidermal cell layer were prepared by manually cutting cotyledons and leaves with sharp razor blades, and guard cells of the stomata were examined. GFP-fused proteins and chlorophyll fluorescence were detected by employing an ECLIPSE 1000 fluorescence microscope (Nikon). GFP was excited at 460 to 500 nm and detected between 510 to 560 nm, whereas chlorophyll fluorescence was excited at 510 to 560 nm and detected at above 590 nm. Pictures were taken with a C4742-95 digital camera (Hamamatsu Photonics). Import-competent chloroplasts were isolated and purified from pea (Pisum sativum) seedlings as described previously (CITATION). Isolated chloroplasts were suspended in an import buffer (50 mm HEPES-KOH [pH 8.0] and 330 mm sorbitol) to a chlorophyll concentration of 2 mg/mL. The AO, QS, and QPT genes in pDONER221 were subcloned into the vector pET-DEST42 (Invitrogen), and were used as templates for in vitro transcription/translation with a TnT-Coupled Reticulocyte Lysate system (Promega) in the presence of L-[35S]Met (>37 TBq/mmol; GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences). A chloroplast suspension of 5 μL was mixed with 2.5 mm Na-ATP (pH 7.0), 0.1 mm Na-GTP (pH7.0), and 5 mm MgCl2 in 45 μL of the import buffer, and then 5 μL of [35S]-labeled proteins were added. The reaction mixture was incubated in the dark at room temperature for 20 min and then loaded onto 75 μL of a 40% Percoll cushion in the import buffer. Intact chloroplasts were isolated by centrifugation (1,300g, 4°C, 5 min). The chloroplasts in the pellet were suspended in the import buffer and recovered by centrifugation. The purified chloroplasts were suspended in the sample buffer of the Laemmli system (CITATION). Samples were separated by SDS-PAGE and analyzed with an image analyzer BAS-2500 (Fuji Film).
