!~ABS~! Zinc ions are required to maintain the biological activity of numerous proteins. However, when mislocalized or accumulated in excess, Zn2+ ions are toxic because of adventitious binding to proteins and displacement of other metal ions, among them Fe2+, from their binding sites. Heterologous expression of a previously uncharacterized Arabidopsis thaliana metal tolerance protein, MTP3, in the zrc1 cot1 mutant of budding yeast restores tolerance to, and cellular accumulation of, zinc and cobalt. An MTP3–GFP fusion protein localizes to the vacuolar membrane when expressed in Arabidopsis. Ectopic over-expression of MTP3 increases Zn accumulation in both roots and rosette leaves of A. thaliana, and enhances Zn tolerance. Exposure of wild-type plants to high but non-toxic concentrations of Zn or Co, or Fe deficiency, strongly induce MTP3 expression specifically in epidermal and cortex cells of the root hair zone. Silencing of MTP3 by RNA interference causes Zn hypersensitivity and enhances Zn accumulation in above-ground organs of soil-grown plants and of seedlings exposed to excess Zn or to Fe deficiency. Our data indicate that, in wild-type A. thaliana, the AtMTP3 protein contributes to basic cellular Zn tolerance and controls Zn partitioning, particularly under conditions of high rates of Zn influx into the root symplasm.
!~RES~! The A. thaliana genome encodes a predicted protein, MTP3 (At3g58810), which shares 67.6% sequence identity with the previously characterized Zn transport protein ZAT (Zn transporter of A. thaliana, also termed ZAT1 or AtMTP1) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Verification of the MTP3 mRNA sequence by 5′-RACE PCR indicated that the current gene model (accession number BX822173) is incorrect, and that the MTP3 gene contains a 5′-UTR of 40 bp, followed by a single 117 bp-long intron directly adjacent to the translational initiation codon of the MTP3 coding sequence (RAFL14–33-A19, accession numbers AU235685 and AU226425, lacks 14 nucleotides at the 5′ end; novel accession number AM231755; Figure 1a). A putative TATA box (TATATATA) spans positions −32 to −25, and a putative CAAT box (CCAAT) is located at positions −66 to −62. The predicted MTP3 protein exhibits all the characteristics of a Zn-transporting cation diffusion facilitator (CDF) protein (CITATION; CITATION). These include six predicted membrane-spanning helices, cytoplasmic N- and C-termini, a large histidine-rich cytoplasmic loop between the fourth and fifth membrane-spanning helices, and a fully conserved C-terminal motif HEXHXWX2TX2KX4CH (X: amino acids with non-polar residues) (CITATION) (Figure S1). These features are shared with the previously characterized MTP1 and the uncharacterized MTP2 proteins, whereas the sequences of the remainder of the 12 CDF proteins encoded in the A. thaliana genome are more divergent (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the cellular function of the MTP3 protein, it was expressed in the Zn-sensitive zrc1 cot1 double mutant of budding yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae (CITATION). This mutant lacks two transporters of the CDF family, ScZrc1p and ScCot1p, both of which contribute to the transport of Zn2+ into the yeast vacuole (CITATION; CITATION). Growth of cells of the double mutant transformed with an empty vector was inhibited by approximately 80% at 0.5 mm Zn, whereas growth of zrc1 cot1 cells expressing MTP3 or MTP3 with an N-terminally fused triple HA (hemagglutinin) tag was almost unaffected even at the highest concentration of 5 mm Zn (Figure 1b). Growth of cells expressing Arabidopsis halleri MTP1–3, which was previously shown to complement the zrc1 cot1 mutant (CITATION; CITATION), was partially inhibited at this Zn concentration (Figure 1b). These data indicate that MTP3 can complement the Zn sensitivity of the yeast zrc1 cot1 double mutant. In yeast cells, MTP3 could confer Zn tolerance in two different ways – either by preventing the intracellular accumulation of Zn or through intracellular sequestration of Zn. In order to determine the basis of MTP3-mediated Zn tolerance, we analyzed Zn accumulation in the yeast transformants. Cells of the zrc1 cot1 mutant are defective in vacuolar Zn sequestration. Accordingly, these cells accumulated on average only about two-thirds of the Zn accumulated by wild-type cells (Figure 1c). Zn accumulation in double mutant cells expressing MTP3 was between 92 and 95% of Zn accumulation in wild-type cells. This suggests that the MTP3-mediated Zn tolerance of yeast cells is based on the intracellular sequestration of Zn. To assess whether MTP3 is capable of the intracellular detoxification of other metal ions, we tested its ability to confer tolerance to Cd (as CdSO4 in the zrc1 cot1 and YYA4 genetic backgrounds), Fe (as FeSO4 in the Fe-sensitive ccc1 mutant), Mn (as MnCl2 in zrc1 cot1, ccc1 and wild-type) and Co (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Among these metals, MTP3 expression conferred tolerance only to Co (Figure 2a, and data not shown). Growth inhibition by more than 80% was found at Co concentrations of 0.75 mm Co in zrc1 cot1 cells transformed with the empty vector, 1.25 mm Co or higher in 3HA-AtMTP3-expressing and AtMTP3-expressing cells, and at 1 mm Co in AhMTP1–3-expressing zrc1 cot1 cells. [[FIGURE]] In a medium containing a non-toxic Co concentration of 250 μm Co, zrc1 cot1 mutant cells accumulated about 60% of the Co accumulated in wild-type cells (Figure 2b). This is consistent with the known ability of ScCot1p to transport cobalt ions into the vacuole (CITATION; CITATION). Cells of the zrc1 cot1 mutant expressing AtMTP3 or AhMTP1–3 and grown at 250 μm Co accumulated on average between 91 and 94% of the Co content of wild-type cells, respectively. This suggests that the Co tolerance conferred to zrc1 cot1 cells by MTP3 was based on intracellular Co detoxification rather than Co exclusion from cells. To analyze the localization of MTP3 in plant cells, stable transformants of A. thaliana were generated using a construct encoding an MTP3–EGFP (enhanced green fluorescent protein) fusion protein. In seedlings of six independent transformant lines, the GFP signal was detected in the vacuolar membrane (Figure 3). This suggests that MTP3 is primarily localized in the vacuolar membrane of plant cells. This is in agreement with the localization of an EGFP–MTP3 fusion protein transiently expressed in A. thaliana protoplasts isolated from a suspension culture (A.-G. Desbrosses-Fonrouge and U. Krämer, Max Planck Institute of Molecular Plant Physiology, Potsdam, Germany, unpublished data). [[FIGURE]] To further characterize MTP3 protein function, we generated transgenic A. thaliana plants ectopically over-expressing 3xHA–MTP3 under the control of a constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. In rosette leaves of adult plants, the two lines 1.6 and 4.3 contained high concentrations of the 3xHA–MTP3 protein and the third line, 2.2, contained lower levels (Figure 4a). Root elongation and biomass production suggested that all three 3xHA:MTP3 transformant lines exhibit enhanced Zn tolerance when compared to the empty vector line (Figure 4b–d). Taken together, the root elongation and shoot biomass data indicated that Zn tolerance is higher in lines 1.6 and 4.3 than in line 2.2, suggesting that there is a correlation between MTP3 protein levels and Zn tolerance in plants ectopically over-expressing MTP3. Increases in Co tolerance were only marginal in lines 1.6 and 4.3 (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Compared to empty vector transformants, the accumulation of Zn, but not of Mn or Fe, was increased in roots and in rosette leaves of seedlings ectopically over-expressing 3xHA–MTP3 (Figure 5a,b, and data not shown). This trend was observed in seedlings grown at the control Zn concentration of 1 μm and in seedlings grown at 30 μm Zn, but differences were only statistically significant in plants grown at the higher Zn concentration. In 3xHA–MTP3-expressing seedlings grown in a medium containing 10 μm Co, root and shoot Co concentrations were approximately twofold higher than in empty vector control seedlings (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] In mature plants grown on a normal potting soil, Zn accumulation was higher in rosette leaves of MTP3-over-xpressing plants than in rosette leaves of empty vector transformants (1.4- and 1.5-fold higher in MTP3 over-expressors than in empty vector transformants in lines 1.6 and 4.3, respectively; Figure 5c, and data not shown). This is consistent with the data obtained from seedlings (Figure 5b). In cauline leaves, the inflorescence and siliques of plants ectopically over-expressing MTP3, Zn concentrations tended to be lower than in the respective organs of the empty-vector transformant line (Figure 5c). In stems and seeds, Zn concentrations were equivalent in plants of both genotypes. These experiments showed that ectopic over-expression of MTP3 increases plant Zn tolerance and Zn accumulation in roots and rosette leaves. In order to determine the function of MTP3 in planta, we decided to first investigate the localization of MTP3 expression (Figure 6a). MTP3 transcript levels in the roots of seedlings were more than tenfold higher than transcript levels in rosette leaves, cauline leaves and the inflorescence stem. Transcript levels were slightly higher in the inflorescence and in developing siliques than in other above-ground tissues of soil-grown mature plants. [[FIGURE]] Next we determined whether MTP3 transcript abundance is dependent on plant metal status. Expression of MTP3 in rosette leaves was very low under all conditions (data not shown). However, in roots, MTP3 transcript abundance changed in response to specific changes in metal status (Figure 6b). Compared to seedlings grown under control conditions, root MTP3 transcript levels were increased in response to non-toxic excesses of Zn (30 μm: sixfold increase), Co (10 μm: fivefold increase) and a toxic concentration of Mn (500 μm: ninefold increase), respectively. MTP3 transcript abundance also increased approximately threefold following growth on a medium lacking added Fe for 18 days. These data suggest that MTP3 is primarily expressed in the roots and that its steady-state transcript levels are up-regulated in response to iron deficiency or an excess of Mn, Zn or Co. To obtain more precise information about the spatial pattern of MTP3 expression, a fusion construct containing the MTP3 promoter region and the uidA (GUS) gene was introduced into A. thaliana. This construct comprised 2143 bp of the genomic region upstream of the MTP3 coding sequence (see also Figure 1) and the first 360 bp of the MTP3 coding sequence. The encoded protein is a fusion of the N-terminal 120 amino acids of the MTP3 protein including the two N-terminal transmembrane helices, and the GUS protein (Figure S1). Overall, GUS activity was very low in most analyzed tissues and only detectable after overnight staining. After 5 h of incubation, detectable coloration was only apparent in the hypocotyls of 5-day-old seedlings (Figure 7a,b), and the intensity decreased with seedling age. In leaves, petioles and the stem, very weak staining could be observed in the vasculature (Figure 7c,d). This staining was localized to the phloem (Figure 7e). GUS staining was also detected in the anthers and the longer four of the six filaments of opened flowers (Figure 7f–i, and data not shown). In the anthers, staining was localized primarily to pollen grains and the vascular bundle (Figure 7g–i). In developing siliques, staining was detected in the abscission zones (Figure 7k). [[FIGURE]] GUS activity was histochemically undetectable in roots of seedlings after growth on control medium (Figure 8a). MTP3 transcript levels determined by quantitative real-time RT-PCR were about 5.7 times higher in bulk root tissues than in bulk inflorescence tissues (Figure 6a). Compared to the highly localized GUS expression within the inflorescence (Figure 7f,i), a more widespread localization of GUS expression in roots may locally be below the detection limit of histochemical GUS staining. Ten-day-old seedlings of pMTP3::GUS plants germinated and grown on media containing excess Zn (30 μm) or Co (10 μm), or on a medium lacking added Fe, exhibited intense GUS activity staining in the root hair zone of primary and secondary roots (Figure 8b–e). The GUS activity was localized in the cortical and epidermal cell layers including root hairs (Figure 8f–h). The apical region of roots displayed no GUS activity. By contrast, seedlings cultivated on a medium containing excess Mn (500 μm) did not exhibit histochemically detectable GUS activity. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate metal-dependent regulation, GUS activity was determined in root total protein extracts using methyl-umbelliferone as a substrate. Compared to GUS activity in the roots of 18-day-old seedlings grown under control conditions, GUS activity was clearly detectable and increased in roots grown in the absence of added iron, or in the presence of excess Co or excess Zn (Figure 9a). Compared to seedlings grown on control medium (5 μm FeHBED, 5 μm MnCl2 and 1 μm ZnSO4), GUS activity was not increased following exposure of seedlings to 20 μm FeHBED or 500 μm Mn, although real-time PCR experiments suggested that MTP3 transcript levels increased in response to an excess of Mn (see Figure 6b). It should be noted that GUS activity in the pMTP3::GUS lines used here requires proper splicing of the intron in the 5′-UTR of the MTP3 primary transcript and translation of the first 360 nucleotides of the coding sequence of the MTP3 transcript that are fused in-frame to the transcript of the GUS coding sequence. Therefore, GUS activity reports not only promoter activity, but will include any regulatory mechanisms specified in the MTP3 sequence included in the construct, for example splicing or early events in translation. Alternatively, a regulatory element of Mn-dependent MTP3 transcription or transcript stability may be localized outside the DNA fragment used in the construct. [[FIGURE]] It has been proposed that an excess of Zn may induce Fe deficiency in plants. To test whether the Zn-dependent increase in MTP3 promoter activity was a consequence of Zn-induced internal Fe deficiency, we analyzed GUS activity in plants exposed to excess Zn (30 μm ZnSO4) either in the presence of the usual concentration of 5 μm FeHBED or in the presence of a higher Fe concentration of 20 μm FeHBED (Figure 9b). GUS activities were of the same magnitude in both treatments. This indicates that the increase in promoter activity following exposure to an excess of Zn was not a consequence of Zn-induced Fe deficiency. Compared to control seedlings grown on medium containing 1 μm Zn, GUS activity was induced in a Zn-concentration-dependent manner following growth on 15, 30 and 60 μm Zn for 18 days (Figure 9c). The Zn-dependent increase in GUS activity was slow, with a detectable increase after 2 days of exposure to 30 μm Zn, followed by an approximately linear increase within the first 8 days of exposure. Between days 8 and 18 of exposure, a further increase in GUS activity occurred at a low rate (Figure 9d). In order to understand the role of MTP3 in A. thaliana, we generated plants transformed with an intron-spliced hairpin RNA construct designed for RNA interference-mediated silencing of MTP3 expression (CITATION). In three independent transgenic lines, MTP3 transcript levels were reduced to between 15 and 19% of control transcript levels found in empty vector transformants (Figure 10a). The sequences of the transcripts of the MTP1 and MTP2 genes are most closely related to the MTP3 sequence, with 65.4 and 60.7% identity, respectively. Compared to empty vector transformants, MTP1 and MTP2 transcript levels were not significantly reduced (Figure 10b). Transcript levels of MTP2 were extremely low, and this gene should be considered as not expressed in either wild-type or transgenic plants under the growth conditions employed. The MTP3 RNAi lines flowered normally and exhibited no reduction in seed set. All three lines grew normally on media containing control levels of Zn (Figure 10c). At 30 μm Zn, a concentration at which wild-type A. thaliana (Col) are healthy (see also Figure 4), leaf chlorosis was observed in all three MTP3 RNAi lines (Figure 10c). The shoot fresh biomass of MTP3 RNAi plants was significantly reduced to on average about 50% of the shoot fresh biomass of seedlings grown in the low-Zn conditions (Figure 10d). By contrast, no significant reduction in shoot biomass production was observed at 30 μm Zn in the empty vector control seedlings. This suggests that MTP3 has a role in basic Zn tolerance in A. thaliana and is not redundant under the conditions employed. [[FIGURE]] The effect of MTP3 silencing on Zn partitioning was analyzed in mature plants grown on soil (Figure 11a). In these plants, most above-ground tissues accumulated higher Zn concentrations than empty vector transformants. In rosette leaves, cauline leaves, the inflorescence and siliques, Zn concentrations were significantly higher in MTP3 RNA interference plants than in empty vector transformants by between 27 and 33%. This suggests that, in wild-type A. thaliana plants, MTP3 has a role in controlling root-to-shoot transfer of Zn, most likely by immobilizing Zn in the vacuoles of cells in the root epidermis and cortex. Therefore, we tested whether Zn concentrations are higher in the shoots of seedlings grown under conditions known to induce an increase in root MTP3 transcript levels and MTP3 promoter activity (see Figures 6b, 8 and 9). In 18-day-old seedlings grown under conditions of mild Fe deficiency or excess Zn, respectively, shoot Zn concentrations were 1.9- and 2.1-fold higher in MTP3 RNAi seedlings than in empty vector control seedlings (Figure 11b). These results substantiate the idea that MTP3 participates in the exclusion of Zn from the shoot of wild-type plants. Mn concentrations were not significantly altered in the MTP3 RNAi lines, further supporting the hypothesis that MTP3 does not transport Mn (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! For cultivation on soil, Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynhold (accession Columbia, Col) plants were grown on a mixture of 1:1 v/v standard soil (GS90) and vermiculite in a greenhouse (20°C day/18°C night; relative humidity 50% day/80% night; 16 h photoperiod, with supplementary lighting provided by mercury vapor lamps to give a total light intensity of approximately 250 μmol m−2 sec−1). Sterile plant cultivation was performed vertically in square plastic Petri dishes (12 cm × 12 cm) in a climate-controlled growth cabinet (20°C day/18°C night; relative humidity 60% day/75% night; 16 h photoperiod at 120 μmol m−2 sec−1; Percival AR-75L, CLF GmbH, Emersacker, Germany). For selection of transformed plants, seeds were sterilized and plated on media containing sterile 0.5× Murashige & Skoog medium (Duchefa, Haarlem, The Netherlands) supplemented with 0.5% w/v sucrose, 0.8% w/v Select Agar (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) and 50 mg l−1 kanamycin or 25 mg l−1dl-phosphinotricine (Duchefa). For metal ion assays, sterile seeds were plated on control 0.25-strength Hoagland medium (CITATION) supplemented with 0.5% w/v sucrose, with 0.9% w/v agar (Agar M, Sigma, Seelze, Germany) and various concentrations of ZnSO4, CoCl2, MnCl2 or FeIIIHBED (Strem Chemicals Inc., Newburyport, MA, USA), as indicated. After plating the seeds, plates were kept at 4°C in the dark for 2 days. Plant transformation vectors were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 by electroporation. Arabidopsis plants were transformed by floral-dip infiltration (CITATION). Standard molecular biology techniques were used for DNA preparation and manipulation (CITATION). All PCR reactions for cloning purposes were performed using a proofreading polymerase (Pfu Turbo; Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA). All kits and PCR reactions were performed as recommended by the manufacturers. The open-reading frame of AtMTP3 was amplified from the intron-free sequence of the gene using genomic DNA from A. thaliana as a template and the primers 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTCGATGAAAGACCATATTCAT-3′ and 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTTCATTGACGTTCGATCTGA-3′ adapted for GATEWAY cloning (Invitrogen). A variant MTP3 cDNA lacking the translational stop codon was amplified using primers 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTCGATGAAAGACCATATTCAT-3′ and 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTTTGACGTTCGATCTGAATAGTCACG-3′. The PCR products were cloned into the entry vectors pSPECTRE (Ben Trevaskis, CSIRO, Canberra, Australia) and pDONR201 (Invitrogen) by in vitro site-directed recombination (Invitrogen). All entry clones were verified by sequencing. For 5′-RACE, a library was constructed from 300 mg pooled tissues of 1-month-old soil grown A. thaliana including inflorescences, siliques and inflorescence stems, and pooled tissues from 6-week-old hydroponically grown plants, including 600 mg roots and 500 mg shoots of plants treated with 100 μm Zn for 3 days, 300 mg roots of plants exposed to 3 μm Cd for 2 days and 300 mg roots of plants exposed to 30 μm Zn for 2 days. A 1 mg aliquot of total RNA isolated using the TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen) was used to prepare 2 μg mRNA using the PolyATtract system (Promega Corp., Madison, WI, USA). A 5′-RACE library was constructed using 0.5 μg mRNA and the SMARTTM RACE cDNA Amplification Kit (BD Biosciences, Heidelberg, Germany). PCR and nested PCR were performed using 2.5 μl of RACE library and the gene-specific primers 5′-CATCTGAGAATCCGCAAGGCGCTTC-3′ and 5′-CCTGATGAAACTTCCCCACAAATCTGAACC-3′ (nested). PCR products were separated electrophoretically in a 2.5% w/v agarose gel and found to give a single band of approximately 210 bp (150 bp for the nested PCR product). Products were cloned into pCR2.1 (Invitrogen). After transformation of Escherichia coli, four clones harboring the nested PCR product and one clone harboring the initial 5′-RACE product were sequenced. The MTP3 cDNA was subcloned into the yeast expression vector pFL61 adapted for Gateway cloning (A.-G. Desbrosses-Fonrouge, Max Planck Institute of Molecular Plant Physiology, Potsdam, Germany, unpublished data), and into pFL613, in which a translational fusion is generated of the encoded protein to an N-terminal triple hemagglutinin epitope tag (CITATION). To create a pFL61 empty vector, a 325 bp long non-coding sequence was amplified by PCR from genomic DNA of Saccharomyces cerevisiae with the primers 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTCCAGTATTAGGTGACTTTCAAAAC-3′ and 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCCAGGTGAATTTAAATCGGC-3′. The PCR product was cloned into the entry vector pDONR201 and subcloned into pFL61. The S. cerevisiae zrc1 cot1 double mutant (Mat a, zrc1::natMX3, cot1::kanMX4, his3Δ1, leu2Δ0, met15Δ0, ura3Δ0) and its parental wild-type strain BY4741 (Mat a, his3Δ1, leu2Δ0, met15Δ0, ura3Δ0) were transformed with constructs as indicated (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Transformants were selected on solid minimal medium (SC) lacking uracil (CITATION) with 2% w/v d-glucose as carbon source. For each construct, independent transformant colonies were grown overnight in 2 ml SC-URA to early stationary phase (OD600 approximately 1.0). Yeast cells were washed once in water and suspended in low-sulphate/phosphate (LSP) medium (CITATION) lacking uracil with 2% w/v d-glucose, 1.4 μm ZnSO4 and without CoCl2. For complementation assays, a volume of 3 ml LSP lacking uracil (LSP-URA) with added concentrations of ZnSO4 between 0.25 and 10 mm, or with added concentrations of CoCl2 between 0.25 and 1.25 mm, was inoculated with yeast cells at a cell density of 106 cells ml−1. Cultures were incubated at 30°C with constant mixing in a culture wheel, and OD600 was measured after 72 h. For metal accumulation assays, a volume of 10 ml LSP-URA without supplements, or with added 200 μm ZnSO4 or 250 μm CoCl2, was inoculated with yeast cells at a cell density of 2 × 106 cells ml−1, and cultivation was performed as described above. After 24 h of growth, the cells were collected by centrifugation (2900 g for 10 min, 4°C) and washed in an equal volume of ice-cold 10 mm CaCl2. Cells were washed twice more in fresh CaCl2 solution, and finally once with ultrapure water (PURELAB plus, ELGA Labwater, Ransbach-Baumbach, Germany). Cell densities were determined in the final suspension before pelleting the yeast cells and carefully removing the supernatant. Yeast cell pellets were dried overnight at 60°C, and then digested in 65% v/v HNO3 in a microwave for the determination of metal concentrations by inductively coupled optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) as described previously (CITATION). The coding sequence of the MTP3 cDNA without a translational stop codon was subcloned by in vitro site-directed recombination (Invitrogen) into the binary vector pK7FWG2 (CITATION), designed for the expression of a translational fusion of the encoded protein and a C-terminal EGFP, under transcriptional control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Transformant T1 individuals were selected on medium containing kanamycin for 12 days. Roots were incubated in 1 mg ml−1 propidium iodide (Sigma Aldrich, Steinheim, Germany) for 20 min for the staining of root cells walls and nuclei. Digital fluorescence images were recorded using a confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica TCS SP2; Leica Microsystems, Wetzlar, Germany), with excitation at 488 nm and detection between 490 and 510 nm for GFP fluorescence, and between 550 and 650 nm for red fluorescence. The MTP3 cDNA was subcloned by in vitro site-directed recombination into the 3xHA-GW-pGREEN-35S vector (Invitrogen). This vector was generated by introducing the 3xHA-GATEWAY hypercassette (CITATION) using HindIII and XbaI into the vector pGREEN-35S (Isabell Witt and Bernd-Müller-Röber, Universität Potsdam, Germany) based on pGREENII (CITATION). Recombination into 3xHA-GW-pGREEN-35S generates a translational fusion of the encoded protein to an N-terminal triple hemagglutinin epitope tag. Transformant plants and subsequent generations were selected for phosphinotricine resistance to obtain homozygous lines carrying a single T-DNA insertion. Arabidopsis thaliana lines transformed with the empty pGREEN-35S vector were used as control lines. For metal tolerance assays, seeds (T3 generation, homozygous) were germinated on agar plates containing control 0.25-strength Hoagland medium (1 μm ZnSO4) or added ZnSO4 between 30 and 250 μm. After 17 days of growth, root length and shoot fresh biomass were measured, and photographs were taken of representative individuals. For metal accumulation measurements, plants were grown either on soil for 1 month or on agar plates containing control 0.25-strength Hoagland medium or supplemented with 30 μm ZnSO4 for 1 month (11 h photoperiod). Plant tissues were collected. Tissues from soil-grown plants were washed with ultrapure water. Seedlings grown in sterile culture on agarose media were washed twice in wash solution (5 mm CaCl2, 5 mm Na2EDTA, 1 mm MES-KOH, pH 5.7) for 10 min and rinsed twice in ultrapure water. All tissues were dried at 60°C for 3 days, digested and analyzed by ICP-OES (CITATION). MTP3 protein levels were analyzed in rosette leaves collected from T3 plants by Western blotting using anti-HA antibodies as described (CITATION). Total RNA was extracted from plant tissues frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −70°C using the Qiagen RNeasy plant RNA kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) and approximately 100 mg of frozen material. Genomic DNA was removed using DNAse (Ambion Europe Ltd, Huntingdon, UK). The integrity of DNA-free RNA was checked by agarose gel electrophoresis, and equal amounts (1 μg) were used as a template for cDNA synthesis (RetroscriptTM kit, Ambion) with oligo-dT oligonucleotide primers. Primers for real-time RT-PCR were designed using primer express software (version 2.0; Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA) for amplicon lengths of between 60 and 100 bp: MTP1 (5′-CTCCCTGCGGATGTAATCCATT-3′; 5′-GAGATTGACGCCACAAAGCTC-3′), MTP2 (5′-TCTCTCGGTCTGCTCTCCATTA-3′; 5′-GGACAACCATTAAGATGCTTCG-3′), MTP3 (5′-TTTGCCTTCCATCCCGAA-3′; 5′-CTGATGTTGCAGCCTTTGCA-3′). The primer pairs for the constitutively expressed control genes, elongation factor EF1α (At5g60390) and UBQ10 (At4g05320) were chosen to span an intron (CITATION; CITATION). Samples without template were used as negative controls. The absence of genomic DNA and non-specific by-products of the PCR amplification was confirmed by analysis of dissociation curves and agarose gel electrophoresis of the PCR products. Real-time PCR reactions were performed in a 384-well plate with an Applied Biosystems ABI Prism 7900 Sequence Detection System (Applied Biosystems), using SYBR Green (Eurogentec, Cologne, Germany) to monitor cDNA amplification. PCR reactions were performed as described previously (CITATION). Data were analyzed using the SDS 2.2.1 software (Applied Biosystems). At a threshold value of the normalized reporter Rn of 0.1, the average threshold cycle (CT) value for EF1α was 17.7 and that for UBQ10 was 17.9. Between different cDNAs, the mean CT for EF1α varied by less than 4.5% (±0.8 amplification cycles) and the mean CT for UBQ10 by less than 4.2% (±0.75 amplification cycles). For data evaluation, the difference was calculated between the CT of the target gene and the CT of the control gene for the respective template, thus normalizing the target gene expression to the control gene expression. A 2503 bp long sequence fragment including the promoter region, the 40 bp long 5′-UTR, an intron of 117 bp in length and 360 bp of the coding sequence of MTP3 was amplified from genomic DNA with the primers 5′-GGCCTGGCTAGCGTACTGACAAAT-3′ and 5′- CAGTGCCGGCCATAAGATTGCTGAG-3′, introducing NheI and NgoMIV sites. The PCR product was cloned into the XbaI and XmaI sites of pGPTV-kan (DNA Cloning Service, Herman Schmidt, Hamburg, Germany). Transformant seedlings of the T1 and subsequent generations were selected for kanamycin resistance. GUS staining patterns were verified in eight independent homozygous lines carrying a single T-DNA insertion in the T3 generation, and representative individuals from representative lines were chosen for photography and enzyme activity measurements. Histochemical staining of β-glucuronidase (GUS) activity and microscopic analysis were performed as described previously (CITATION). Detection of β-glucuronidase activity by confocal microscopy was performed as described previously (CITATION). For fluorometric GUS activity assays, wild-type plants and three independent homozygous lines (T3 generation) were grown on plates containing control 0.25-stength Hoagland medium, medium in which FeHBED was omitted or medium supplemented with 20 μm FeHBED, 500 μm MnCl2, 10 μm CoCl2, 15 μm ZnSO4, 30 μm ZnSO4 or 60 μm ZnSO4, respectively, for 18 days. For a time course, wild-type plants and three independent homozygous T3 lines were first grown on plates containing control 0.25-strength Hoagland medium. On days 10, 14 and 16 of growth, the plants were transferred to plates containing either the same medium or a medium supplemented with 30 μm ZnSO4. Roots were harvested after a total of 18 days of growth, and fluorometric assays were performed as described previously (CITATION), with some modifications. Fresh tissues were ground in 200 μl extraction buffer (50 mm NaPO4 buffer, pH 7.4, 10 mmβ-mercaptoethanol, 10 mm EDTA, 0.1% w/v SDS and 0.1% v/v Triton X-100). The samples were centrifuged at 20 800 g at 4°C for 15 min, and 10 μl of supernatant were transferred to 300 μl GUS assay buffer (1 mm 4-methyl umbelliferyl β-d-glucuronide in extraction buffer; Sigma). After incubation at 37°C for 2 h, the reactions were stopped by addition of 300 μl of 200 mm Na2CO3, and the fluorescence of 4-methylumbelliferone (MU) was determined using a fluorimeter (Synergy HT, Programme KCA, sensitivity setting 75; Bio-Tek Instruments GmbH, Bad Friedrichshall, Germany). Protein concentrations in extracts were determined using a Bradford assay kit (Bio-Rad, Munich, Germany). A 452 bp fragment encompassing nucleotides 686 to 1137 of the 1137 bp long coding sequence of MTP3 was amplified from genomic DNA using the primers 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCGAGCAAAAGAAGCAGCGTA-3′ and 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTGCTTCATTGACGTTCGATCTG-3′ and recombined in vitro into the vector pDONR201 (Invitrogen). The PCR fragment was subsequently subcloned into the pJAWOHL8 vector by in vitro site-directed recombination (Invitrogen). The resulting vector and the corresponding empty vector, pJAWOHL3, were introduced into A. tumefaciens strain GV3103RK, and A. thaliana transformation was performed as described above. Transformant lines for the MTP3 RNAi construct or the empty vector, each carrying a single T-DNA insertion (T2 generation), were selected for phosphinotricine resistance. Ten-day-old phosphinotricine-resistant seedlings were subsequently transferred onto plates containing control 0.25-strength Hoagland medium or the same medium supplemented with a total of 30 μm ZnSO4. After 7 days of growth, photographs were taken and roots were frozen in liquid nitrogen for the preparation of total RNA and quantitative real-time RT-PCR. For metal ion concentration measurements, 10-day-old phosphinotricine-resistant seedlings were transferred onto soil. After 1 month of growth, tissues were collected and analyzed by ICP-OES as described above. For shoot fresh biomass determination, 7-day-old phosphinotricine-resistant seedlings were transferred onto agar plates containing 0.25-strength Hoagland medium modified as specified. Shoots of 18-day-old seedlings were harvested for the determination of fresh biomass or for metal analysis by ICP-OES (see above).
