!~ABS~! Three gibberellin (GA) receptor genes (AtGID1a, AtGID1b and AtGID1c), each an ortholog of the rice GA receptor gene (OsGID1), were cloned from Arabidopsis, and the characteristics of their recombinant proteins were examined. The GA-binding activities of the three recombinant proteins were confirmed by an in vitro assay. Biochemical analyses revealed similar ligand selectivity among the recombinants, and all recombinants showed higher affinity to GA4 than to other GAs. AtGID1b was unique in its binding affinity to GA4 and in its pH dependence when compared with the other two, by only showing binding in a narrow pH range (pH 6.4–7.5) with 10-fold higher affinity (apparent Kd for GA4 = 3 × 10−8 m) than AtGID1a and AtGID1c. A two-hybrid yeast system only showed in vivo interaction in the presence of GA4 between each AtGID1 and the Arabidopsis DELLA proteins (AtDELLAs), negative regulators of GA signaling. For this interaction with AtDELLAs, AtGID1b required only one-tenth of the amount of GA4 that was necessary for interaction between the other AtGID1s and AtDELLAs, reflecting its lower Kd value. AtDELLA boosted the GA-binding activity of AtGID1 in vitro, which suggests the formation of a complex between AtDELLA and AtGID1–GA that binds AtGID1 to GA more tightly. The expression of each AtGID1 clone in the rice gid1-1 mutant rescued the GA-insensitive dwarf phenotype. These results demonstrate that all three AtGID1s functioned as GA receptors in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! We found more than 10 genes similar to OsGID1 in Arabidopsis, because OsGID1 contained the homologous sequence to a large family of a hormone-sensitive lipase (CITATION). Figure 1(a) shows the alignment of the deduced amino acid sequences of OsGID1 and the top 10 Arabidopsis orthologs found by a blast search (http://www.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/search/blast-e.html). An analysis of two gid1 mutants of rice has elucidated that two amino acid residues, Gly-196 and Arg-251, are essential for the in vitro interaction between OsGID1 and GA4 (CITATION). The glycine residue is preserved in all the genes listed in Figure 1(a), while the arginine residue is only preserved in the top three genes. This information suggested three probable candidates possessing a GA-binding ability like that of OsGID1, while the remaining ones do not. [[FIGURE]] We produced the recombinant proteins from the top seven homologous genes in E. coli, and examined their GA-binding activity by using an unequilibrated gel permeation technique with the tritiated GA4 derivative, 16,17-dihydro-GA4. As was expected from their primary structures, the products of the top three genes showed reversible GA-binding activity, while the other four did not (Figure S1). We therefore designated these three genes as AtGID1a (At3g05120), AtGID1b (At3g63010) and AtGID1c (At5g27320). The deduced amino acid sequences of these three AtGID1s show that they encode polypeptides of 345 amino acids (39 kDa, pI = 6.6, AtGID1a), 358 amino acids (40 kDa, pI = 7.4, AtGID1b) and 344 amino acids (38 kDa, pI = 7.2, AtGID1c). The deduced amino acid sequences of the AtGID1s display 67–85% similarity to each other and 60–63% to OsGID1. A phylogenic analysis confirmed that the three AtGID1s could be classified into the same group as OsGID1, while the others were classified into independent groups (Figure 1b). The phylogenic tree also suggested that AtGID1a and AtGID1c could be classified into the same subgroup, while AtGID1b was located in an independent subgroup, indicating that the biological function of AtGID1b and the other AtGID1s may have been different. The kinetics, ligand selectivity and pH dependency for GA binding of the three AtGID1s were examined by using the tritiated GA4 derivative, 16,17-dihydro-GA4, which had about one-tenth of the physiological effect of GA4 on the germination of the Arabidopsis GA-deficient mutant ga1-3 (Figure S2). We first measured the time-course characteristics for the association of tritiated 16,17-dihydro-GA4 with each AtGID1 by varying the incubation period and the time for dissociation, after adding an excess amount of unlabeled GA4. As shown in the insets to Figure 2(a)–(c), the release of GA from the AtGID1a complex was slower than that from the AtGID1b complex, while the association of AtGID1b with GA proceeded more quickly than that of AtGID1a. On the other hand, the association of AtGID1c with GA proceeded more slowly than that of AtGID1b, while no difference was apparent between the dissociation of GA from the AtGID1c and AtGID1b complexes. In addition, we analyzed the GA-binding kinetics of each AtGID1 under equilibrated conditions with various concentrations of GA, and found that AtGID1b had an affinity for 16,17-dihydro-GA4 (Kd = 4.8 × 10−7 m) that was four times higher than that of AtGID1a (Kd = 2.0 × 10−6 m) or AtGID1c (Kd = 1.9 × 10−6 m) (Figure 2a–c). [[FIGURE]] We examined the ligand selectivity of each AtGID1 by observing the competitive inhibition of the binding of tritiated 16,17-dihydro-GA4 with the recombinant protein by a GA added to the assay mixture (Table 1). The structure of each GA examined in this experiment is shown in Figure S3. The ligand selectivity was evaluated by the concentration of the added GA inhibiting 50% of the binding (IC50 value) of the tracer (15 nm). All the AtGID1s showed very similar ligand selectivity: GA4 had the most inhibitory effect of the GAs examined, and GA3 and GA1, which are also classified as active GAs, were moderately effective, while the physiologically inactive GAs were not effective, suggesting that they had no interaction with the AtGID1s. The IC50 value (m) was adopted to evaluate the potency of each GA. Each value represents the mean of at least duplicate measurements. The relative value for each GA is shown in parentheses, with that for GA4 defined as 100 (%). H2-GA4, 16,17-dihydro-GA4; GA4-Me, methyl ester of GA4. The effect of pH on the GA binding of each AtGID1 was also examined, because the pI value for AtGID1a speculated from its deduced amino acid sequence was clearly lower than the values for the other two. In a neutral pH environment, all AtGID1s showed the highest GA-binding activity, while they showed different behavior for GA binding under other pH conditions. AtGID1b showed the strongest pH dependence, while AtGID1a and AtGID1c were more tolerant of pH conditions other than neutral (Figure 2d–f). These biochemical experiments demonstrate that all three AtGID1s had reasonable GA-binding activity, but that the characteristics of AtGID1b were different from the other two in terms of their GA-binding affinity and pH dependence. Arabidopsis has five DELLA proteins (AtDELLAs; CITATION), resulting in 15 GID1/DELLA protein combinations. We performed two experiments to verify the positive interaction of AtGID1–AtDELLA: the first (assay A) was done by screening the surviving colonies with a limited medium on which only the positive clones could survive, and the second (assay B) was done by measuring the β-galactosidase activity as a reporter gene product for the interaction of AtGID1–AtDELLA. We used GA4 (10−5 m) for application to the medium because it showed the highest affinity to any AtGID1 in the GA-binding assay (Table 1). As shown in Figure 3(a), the transformed yeasts for all AtGID1–AtDELLA pairs formed colonies in the presence of GA in assay A, while the other negative controls did not. β-Galactosidase activity was also detected for all 15 pairs in assay B. Consequently, every AtGID1–AtDELLA interaction was detected in a GA-dependent manner, although the interaction of AtGID1b with some AtDELLAs was weakly detected without GA (Figure S4). [[FIGURE]] We examined in assay B the dose response for AtGID1–RGA interaction with various concentrations of GA4, because the enzymatic activities of those pairs were relatively moderate and comparable to each other as shown in Figure 3(a). The interaction of AtGID1a–RGA and AtGID1c–RGA could only be detected in the presence of more than 10−7 m of GA4, while AtGID1b could interact with RGA even in the presence of 10−8 m GA4 (Figure 3b). It was confirmed by using the Y2H system that all AtGID1s clearly interacted with the AtDELLA proteins. We then examined whether the AtDELLAs had any effect on the GA-binding activity of AtGID1 in vitro. After mixing labeled 16,17-dihydro-GA and AtGID1, AtDELLA was added to the solution, and its GA-binding activity was measured. Figure 3(c) clearly shows that the activity of AtGID1 rose after the addition of AtDELLA. The in vitro effect of AtDELLA seems not to have been dependent on the type of DELLA; both RGA and GAI showed a similar effect on the GA binding of AtGID1c (Figure 3c). We also evaluated the binding affinity for the AtGID1c–GA interaction when a DELLA protein was added to the reaction mixture. A Scatchard plot shows that the Kd value for binding between AtGID1c and 16,17-dihydro-GA4 in the presence of RGA was 1.2 × 10−8 m, and that the value in the presence of GAI was 4.6 × 10−8 m, this being around 100-fold better than that with no AtDELLA (Kd = 1.9 × 10−6 m, shown in Figure 2c). To prove that AtGID1s possess the same function as that of OsGID1 in vivo, we produced the transformants overexpressing each AtGID1 gene under the control of the constitutive promoter of Act1 with the rice gid1-1 background. We obtained eight lines for AtGID1a, eight lines for AtGID1b and 14 lines for AtGID1c. All transgenic plants carrying the AtGID1 clones rescued the gid1-1 dwarf phenotype (partly shown in Figure 4a). This indicates that AtGID1s function as a GA receptor in rice. The height of the AtGID1a plants was slightly less than that of the other transgenic and wild-type plants (Figure 4a). This trend was seen in almost all AtGID1a plants, and the expression level of AtGID1a mRNA in these transgenic plants was similar to that in the other AtGID1s (Figure 4b). Consequently, the GA receptor function of AtGID1a should be weaker than that of AtGID1b and AtGID1c, at least in the rice cells. We also examined the GA response of these transformants carrying AtGID1s by exogenously treating GA3. In this experiment, a tillering plant of each line was divided into two plantlets, GA3 being applied once a day to one plantlet for 5 days, while a mock solution was applied to the other. It was then confirmed that these plants normally responded to the applied GA, similarly to the response of the wild-type plant, the results from two independent experiments being very similar (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Semiquantitative reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR was used to analyze the expression of the AtGID1 genes in various organs of Arabidopsis: stems, flowers, siliques, leaves, roots of about 10-cm-high plants (40–45 days after germination) and imbibed seeds. As shown in Figure 4(c), the expression of the AtGID1 genes could be detected in various organs, this result being supported by open-access array databases like NASCArrays (http://affymetrix.arabidopsis.info/narrays/experimentbrowse.pl) and Gene Atlas (http://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch/at/index.php). This indicates that the three AtGID1s functioned in various organs of Arabidopsis. To examine whether AtGID1 was involved in both the GA signaling in rice and in Arabidopsis, we obtained and studied two T-DNA insertion lines (SALK_044317 for AtGID1a and SALK_023529 for AtGID1c) of the AtGID1 gene. However, the homozygous plants of both lines showed no remarkable phenotype in their germination and growth (data not shown) which would have resulted from redundancy.
!~MM~! The coding regions for the AtGID1 genes were amplified by PCR with specific primers designed according to their full-length cDNA sequences and with suitable restriction enzyme sites at both ends of each primer. After confirmation by a sequence analysis, each cDNA fragment was ligated to the pET32a vector (Novagen/Merck Biosciences, Madison, WI, USA) or pGEX-4T-2 vector (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ, USA; now part of GE Healthcare). The production of their recombinant proteins was confirmed by SDS-PAGE, and the vector cassette was used as a negative control. GA-binding assays were performed according to the methods described in the previous report (CITATION) by using [1,2,16,17-3H4]-16,17-dihydro-GA4 (4.55 TBq mmol−1) which was custom-ordered from DuPont/NEN (Boston, MA, USA). Unlabeled GA4 (1.25 mm) was used to define non-specific binding. A saturation experiment for the kinetic analysis was performed by using 10 concentrations of 16,17-dihydro-GA4 in the range of 25–1500 nm. A competitive assay was performed by using 15 nm [1,2,16,17-3H4]-16,17-dihydro-GA4 and five concentrations of an unlabeled competitor. Recombinant proteins for RGA and GAI were prepared with the pET32a vector according to the method already described. Full-length cDNAs for AtGID1 containing suitable restriction enzyme sites at both ends (SmaI sites for AtGID1a/c, and the XbaI and SmaI sites for AtGID1b) were prepared by PCR, and inserted into the binary vector (CITATION) containing a rice Actin promoter (pAct1) and the NOS terminator. After confirming their insertion, the pAct1–AtGID1 fragment was introduced into rice gid1-1 plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Total RNA and RT-PCR were prepared according to CITATION, using the specific primers shown in Table S1. The specificity of the primers to the above-mentioned expression vectors had previously been checked. An adequate number of PCR cycles was determined for each gene by trial runs, using different numbers of PCR cycles at intervals of two cycles to confirm that the amount of each visualized product was within a certain dynamic range. Experiments were independently conducted at least twice, producing similar results each time. A BD Matchmaker Two-hybrid System 3 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA; now part of Takara Bio) was used for the Y2H experiment. After confirming the PCR product for the AtGID1 genes by sequencing, they were cloned into the pGBKT7 DNA-BD shuttle vector to generate a bait plasmid. Similarly, the entire coding region of each AtDELLA gene containing at each end the EcoRI and XhoI sites for GAI, the BamHI and XhoI sites for RGA, the SmaI and SacI sites for RGL1, the SmaI and ClaI sites for RGL2, and the SmaI and XhoI sites for RGL3 was also cloned into the pGADT7 AD vector. Vector cassettes for DNA-BD and -AD were applied as negative controls, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain AH109 (MATa) or Y187 (MATα) was used. Details of the methods used for the yeast assays can be found in the manufacturer's instructions (Yeast Protocols Handbook #PT3024-1; http://www.clontech.com/). Experiments were independently conducted four times, producing similar results each time.
