!~ABS~! In vivo protein–protein interactions are frequently studied by means of yeast two-hybrid analysis. However, interactions detected in yeast might differ considerably in the plant system. Based on GAL4 DNA-binding (BD) and activation domains (AD) we established an Arabidopsis protoplast two-hybrid (P2H) system. The use of Gateway®-compatible vectors enables the high-throughput screening of protein–protein interactions in plant cells. The efficiency of the system was tested by examining the homo- and heterodimerization properties of basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factors. A comprehensive heterodimerization matrix of Arabidopsis thaliana group C and group S bZIP transcription factors was generated by comparing the results of yeast and protoplast two-hybrid experiments. Surprisingly, almost no homodimerization but rather specific and selective heterodimerization was detected. Heterodimers were preferentially formed between group C members (AtbZIP9, -10, -25, -63) and members of group S1 (AtbZIP1, -2, -11, -44, -53). In addition, significant but low-affinity interactions were detected inside group S1, S2 or C AtbZIPs, respectively. As a quantitative approach, P2H identified weak heterodimerization events which were not detected in the yeast system. Thus, in addition to cell biological techniques, P2H is a valuable tool for studying protein–protein interaction in living plant cells.
!~RES~! Since specific heterodimerization between group C and group S bZIP proteins has been described in tobacco (CITATION) and parsley (CITATION) this finding prompted us to analyse heterodimerization in the model plant Arabidopsis, where the complete bZIP gene family has been described (CITATION). In Arabidopsis, group C and group S consist of four and 17 members, respectively. In comparison with other bZIP proteins, these transcription factors harbour the extraordinarily high number of eight hydrophobic amino acid repeats (Figure 1a, b). Based on homology of the bZIP domains, the 17 members of group S can be divided into three subgroups, designated S1, S2 and S3 (Figure 1c). Members of group C differ with respect to their N-terminal and C-terminal domains surrounding the central bZIP domain. Whereas AtbZIP10, AtbZIP25 and AtbZIP63 show high amino acid homology, AtbZIP9 is more distantly related (Figure 1a). [[FIGURE]] Due to their conserved bZIP domain, group C and group S proteins have been classified as transcription factors. In order to define their capacity in regulating transcription, AtbZIP factors were fused to the DNA-binding domain (BD) of the yeast transcriptional activator GAL4 (CITATION) and expressed in yeast. The ability of BD-AtbZIP fusion proteins to bind GAL4 upstream activating sequences (GAL-UAS) and to activate the transcription of a lacZ reporter gene was quantified by β-galactosidase assays (Figure 2). Strong activation capacity was found for the group C members AtbZIP9 and AtbZIP10, which prevents further interaction studies in yeast. AtbZIP53, AtbZIP25 and AtbZIP63 did not show any intrinsic activation properties, whereas the activation capacities of the other AtbZIPs were rather weak. [[FIGURE]] Transcription factors of the bZIP family bind DNA predominantly as homo- or heterodimers (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Making use of a yeast two-hybrid system, heterodimerization between members of groups C and S was detected by prototrophic growth of the yeast strains on plates without uracil (Figure 3a). Protein–protein interaction was further elucidated quantitatively by measuring lacZ activity (Figure 3b,c). Table 1 summarizes the results, indicating that only selective protein–protein interactions occur. In particular, the group C bZIP proteins heterodimerized with members of subgroup S1. No interaction was observed between group C and subgroups S2 or S3. Some weak heterodimerization was detected among members of subgroup S1 (Figure 3c, Table 1). Surprisingly, homodimerization was hardly detected in the yeast two-hybrid system when the prototrophic growth of the yeast colonies was analysed. In agreement with this, quantitative β-galactosidase assays revealed only very weak homodimerization capacities. For instance, the BD-AtbZIP63/AD-AtbZIP1 heterodimer (AD being the GAL4 DNA-activation domain) produced a β-galactosidase activity of 22.1 units, whereas homodimerization of AtbZIP63 or AtbZIP1 resulted in an activity of 1.0 and 0.38 units, respectively. From these data we conclude that the heterodimerization of AtbZIPs of subclass C and subclass S is preferred over homodimerization. Moreover, heterodimerization does not occur promiscuously, but in a very specific manner. [[FIGURE]] Bait proteins, BD-AtbZIP; prey proteins, AD-bZIP; −, no interaction/activation; (+), weak interaction (2–5 × rel. β-galactosidase units); +, strong interactions (>5 × rel. β-galactosidase units); A, no quantification due to autoactivation of the bait; grey background shows homodimers. In addition to the formation of C/S1 heterodimers, strong interaction between the group S2 members AtbZIP58 and AtbZIP42 was detected (Figure 4). It is important to note that AtbZIP42 is the only protein tested which shows reasonable homodimerization activity in yeast (Figure 4a). [[FIGURE]] To quantitatively assess protein–protein interaction in planta, the principle of the yeast two-hybrid approach was established for transiently transformed Arabidopsis protoplasts (Figure 5a). In order to enable a high-throughput protein–protein interaction screening, Gateway®-compatible high-copy vectors were constructed which allow the expression of AD or BD fusion proteins under the control of the strong 35S promoter (Figure 5b). The ATG start codon was optimized (CITATION) to ensure a high level of translation in plant cells. The AD and BD constructs harbour nuclear localization sequences (NLS) which target the fusion proteins to the nucleus, where protein interactions are measured by reporter gene activity. In order to test whether given interaction partners exhibit activation properties without the heterologous AD domain, a third vector was constructed which allows the expression of HA (haemagglutinin)-tagged proteins (Figure 5b). Expression of the proteins in the transformed protoplasts can be verified by using commercial antibodies raised against the GAL4 BD and AD domain or the HA tag, respectively (Figure 5c). [[FIGURE]] Arabidopsis protoplasts were transfected using the PEG (polyethylenglycol) method described by CITATION. Variation in the transfection efficiencies was corrected by co-expression of a Pro35S:NAN (synthetic neuraminidase gene) reporter (CITATION), the activity of which can easily be measured in the same buffer system and with the same equipment that is used for GUS assays. Using this procedure, highly reproducible data were obtained and the number of repetitions reduced. To test the efficiency of the system we analysed group C/S1 interactions for AtbZIP which had been observed in the yeast system. Intrinsic activation properties of the BD-bZIP fusion protein were measured by co-expression with a GAL4-UAS4:GUS reporter gene. Significant transactivation properties were found for AtbZIP2, AtbZIP11 and AtbZIP44, but not for the other members of groups C and S1 (Figure 6a). Activation of the reporter depends on the GAL-BD-mediated DNA binding. The control experiments in Figure 6(a) clearly demonstrate that AD-AtbZIP proteins cannot bind or activate the GAL-UAS4:GUS reporter. Hence, the binding of the BD domain to GAL-UAS is specific to plant cells. [[FIGURE]] Interaction of a BD-AtbZIP protein with a protein partner fused to the AD domain should result in strong activation of the GAL4-UAS4:GUS reporter. Figure 6(b) shows data from typical experiments where the interaction between non-autoactive BD-AtbZIP1 and the other group_S and group C bZIPs were studied. Strong interaction of BD-AtbZIP1 was observed in particular with AtbZIP10 and to a lesser extent with AtbZIP25 (Figure 6b). Due to the quantitative read-out, the method allows us to differentiate strong from weak interactions, such as that of AtbZIP1 with AtbZIP11. The use of the group C member AtbZIP25 as a bait again revealed that interactions between groups C and S1 are preferred in comparison to heterodimerization within group S or group C factors, respectively (Figure 6c). Because the yeast two-hybrid analysis revealed specific interactions between all group C and group S1 bZIPs, the P2H system was used to establish a comprehensive in planta interaction map (Table 2). In principle, the data observed in yeast could be confirmed with the P2H system. However, in contrast to the interactions observed in yeast, not all interactions between groups C and S1 appear to be as strong as in the plant system (e.g. AtbZIP1/AtbZIP63). Furthermore, in contrast to the yeast system, some additional interactions within the group C AtbZIPs were detectable (e.g. AtbZIP10/AtbZIP63), indicating that the plant-cell-specific environment influences the protein–protein interaction pattern. In summary, the P2H approach seems to be a highly sensitive tool for studying protein interactions in living plant cells.
!~MM~! For protoplast preparation A. thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-O) was grown on soil under controlled environmental conditions in 16-h light/8-h dark cycles. Standard DNA techniques have been described in CITATION. The DNA sequence analyses were performed using an ABI310 sequencer (Applied Biosystems, Darmstadt, Germany) with an ABI PRISM BigDye terminator cycle sequencing reaction kit (Applied Biosystems, Darmstadt, Germany). Western analysis was performed as described in CITATION using a polyclonal HA antibody (Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, CA, USA). For construction of the P2H vectors, the Gateway® cassettes BD-attR1-GW-attR2 and AD-attR1-GW-attR2 were PCR amplified using target DNA from the yeast two-hybrid vectors pDEST32 and pDEST22 (Invitrogen) and the primers pBDfor (AGGTACCAACAATGAAGCTACTGTCTTCTATCGAAC) and pGWrev (AGGTACCACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGAA) or pADfor (AGGTACCAACAATGCCCAAGAAGAAGCGGAAGGTC) and pGWrev(AGGTACCACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGAA), respectively. The translational start (ATG) was optimized (underlined) for plant expression (CITATION). The PCR fragments were inserted in the pGEM-T Vector and verified by DNA sequencing. After restriction with Acc651, the GW cassettes were inserted into the protoplast transformation vector pHBT (CITATION) which enables expression under control of the Pro35S. In order to obtain p35S-HA-GW, the 3xHA-tag-attR1-GW-attR2 cassette located in the plant transformation vector pAlligator2 (CITATION) was PCR amplified using the primers AGGTACCAACAATGGCATACCCATACGACGTTCC and AGGTACCACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGAA. The following steps were performed, as described above. Gateway entry vectors (pDONR201, pDONR207) containing the different Arabidopsis group S and group C bZIP genes were made available by the REGIA project (CITATION). From the entry vectors the bZIP genes were recombined into the ProQuest® Y2H Vectors pDEST22 and pDEST32 (Invitrogen), p35S-GAD-GW, p35S-BD-GW and p35S-HA-GW as described by the manufacturer. ProQuest® Y2H vectors pDEST22 and pDEST32 containing the different bZIP genes were transformed into the yeast strain MaV203 (Invitrogen) according to the protocol of CITATION. Handling of yeast cultures, plate growth assays and quantitative β-galactosidase assays were performed as described in the Clontech Yeast Protocols Handbook (1996). Protoplast isolation and transformation was performed according to the method described by CITATION. For transactivation assays, 9 μg of a GAL4-UAS4:GUS reporter (B. Weisshaar, University of Bielefeld, Germany) and 14 μg of each bZIP effector plasmid were used. For normalization 3 μg of Pro35S:NAN plasmid (CITATION) was added. GUS and NAN enzyme assays were performed according to CITATION. The ratio of GUS and NAN activities are calculated as relative GUS/NAN units using Excel software (Microsoft, Office).
