!~ABS~! Amidase 1 (AMI1) from Arabidopsis thaliana converts indole-3-acetamide (IAM), into indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). AMI1 is part of a small isogene family comprising seven members in A. thaliana encoding proteins which share a conserved glycine- and serine-rich amidase-signature. One member of this family has been characterized as an N-acylethanolamine-cleaving fatty acid amidohydrolase (FAAH) and two other members are part of the preprotein translocon of the outer envelope of chloroplasts (Toc complex) or mitochondria (Tom complex) and presumably lack enzymatic activity. Among the hitherto characterized proteins of this family, AMI1 is the only member with indole-3-acetamide hydrolase activity, and IAM is the preferred substrate while N-acylethanolamines and oleamide are not hydrolyzed significantly, thus suggesting a role of AMI1 in auxin biosynthesis. Whereas the enzymatic function of AMI1 has been determined in vitro, the subcellular localization of the enzyme remained unclear. By using different GFP-fusion constructs and an A. thaliana transient expression system, we show a cytoplasmic localization of AMI1. In addition, RT-PCR and anti-amidase antisera were used to examine tissue specific expression of AMI1 at the transcriptional and translational level, respectively. AMI1-expression is strongest in places of highest IAA content in the plant. Thus, it is concluded that AMI1 may be involved in de novo IAA synthesis in A. thaliana.
!~RES~! Members of the amidase-signature family (Mayaux et al. CITATION) are widespread in nature, ranging from mammals (Cravatt et al. CITATION; Giang and Cravatt CITATION) to bacteria, e.g. of the species Rhodococcus (Kobayashi et al. CITATION) or Bradyrhizobium (Kim and Kang CITATION). Even though the proteins in this family exhibit a variety of biological functions, the core structure of the enzymes is highly conserved throughout the family (Shin et al. CITATION). When examining the proteome of the model plant A. thaliana (Superfamily 1.69; http://www.supfam.org/SUPERFAMILY/index.html; Madera et al. CITATION) one can find seven putative members of this enzyme superfamily, all comprising the characteristic eponymous glycine- and serine-rich amidase-signature motif (Fig. 1a). The construction of a phylogenetic tree revealed the clustering of the Arabidopsis amidase-signature proteins into two sub-groups and additionally two single proteins. The first group encompasses FAAH and a so far uncharacterized protein, At3g25660. The second group contains AMI1 along with the proteins Toc64-III and mtOM64. The two remaining enzymes do not cluster in another group, but rather branch directly from the origin (Fig. 1b). [[FIGURE]]  Preliminary studies suggested a cytosolic localization for AMI1, since the immunological signal was exclusively found in the soluble fraction of protein preparations (Pollmann et al. CITATION). Nevertheless, these data are not sufficient to prove a cytoplasmic localization nor do they exclude AMI1 from organelles, which could have been disrupted during the preparation procedure, thus releasing their soluble proteins. Some recent publications (Vojta et al. CITATION; Chew et al. CITATION) assumed a possible plastidial or mitochondrial localization of AMI1, associating AMI1 with two proteins, Toc64-III and mtOM64, mainly based on their primary amino acid sequence homology, emphasized by the clustering of the three proteins into one branch of a phylogenetic tree (Fig. 1b). However, these assumptions were solely based on in silico studies and thus ambiguous. Here we demonstrate unequivocally that AMI1 is located in the cytoplasm of plant cells transiently expressing AMI1:GFP fusion constructs. To study AMI1-localization, clones in which EGFP was fused to the 3′-end of the AMI1-cDNA were initially constructed and EGFP-fluorescence was analyzed with a confocal laser scanning microscope after introduction of the plasmid construct by particle bombardment into 4 to 6-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings. Coexpression of either EGFP alone or DsRed fused to the nuclear localization site (NLS) of CRY2 (cryptochrome 2) served as controls, the latter for nuclear targeting (Kleiner et al. CITATION). Whereas the GFP protein alone showed an expected cytoplasmic as well as a nuclear localization (Fig. 2a) and DsRed fused to the NLS of CRY2 was targeted to the nucleus (Fig. 2b), AMI1:GFP fusion-proteins were found in the cytoplasm and intriguingly to some extent in the nucleus (Fig. 2c). Considering a calculated molecular weight of the fusion protein of approximately 72 kDa, an unspecific localization of AMI1 in the nucleus, in consequence of a diffusion process through nuclear pores, seemed unlikely but not impossible as earlier reports, e.g. by Saslowsky et al. (CITATION) showed identical findings. Addressing the question of a specific targeting of AMI1 to the nucleus, a second EGFP-construct was generated which contained a GUS-gene inserted between the AMI1- and the GFP-coding sequences in order to increase the apparent size of the fusion protein. The GFP-fluorescence in cells receiving this second EGFP-construct and, at the same time, a nuclear-localization positive control (CRY2(Δ1-500):DsRed) showed an exclusive localization of EGFP-fluorescence in the cytoplasm and DsRed-fluorescence in the nucleus (Fig. 2d). The AMI1-GUS-GFP fusion protein, exhibiting a calculated molecular weight of ca. 142 kDa, apparently is no longer able to enter the nucleus. Rather, EGFP-fluorescence was found restricted to the cytoplasm and the cytoplasmic pocket harboring the nucleus, thus eliminating the possibility of specific nuclear import of the fusion protein and, by inference, of AMI1 itself. Furthermore, no particular affinity of the AMI1-GFP fusion polypeptide to either chloroplasts or mitochondria was observed (data not shown). Therefore, a participation of AMI1 in the chloroplastidic or the mitochondrial protein import machineries can be ruled out. This conclusion is further underlined by the lack of a tetratricopeptide repeat motif in AMI1, which seems to be a characteristic domain mediating protein–protein interaction in the two translocon-associated members of the amidase-signature protein family, Toc64-III (Sohrt and Soll CITATION) and mtOM64 (Chew et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  In the initial work proposing AMI1 as an enzyme converting IAM to IAA, thus being of particular interest for plant auxin biosynthesis, we documented that AMI1 cDNA was obtained by RT-PCR from leaf tissues. The mRNA-level of AMI1 in this tissue seemed fairly constant in plants between 3 and 8 weeks after germination (Pollmann et al. CITATION). To obtain more detailed information and to compare the expression pattern of AMI1 and the related isogene FAAH (Shrestha et al. CITATION), total RNA was extracted from different tissues of A. thaliana. As the expression level of AMI1 was expected to be too low to be detected by Northern-blot analysis RT-PCR was used to analyze the specific expression patterns of the two genes in different organs. AMI1-expression was found in all tissues analyzed, albeit at different levels. Highest transcript levels were found in flowers and young sink leaves (Fig. 3). As depicted in Fig. 4, a similar profile for the AMI1 expression is found using the MPSS database server (Brenner et al. CITATION). This expression pattern is compatible with a role of AMI1 in auxin de novo biosynthesis which is supposed to take place in tissues with highest meristematic activity. Intriguingly, AMI1 expression is highest in areas of high IAA content in the plant, as visualized in the IAA map created by Müller et al. (CITATION) for A. thaliana. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]   FAAH expression was highest in flowers, lower in roots, and still lower in sink leaves, while unlike AMI1, FAAH-mRNA was not detected in source leaves, stems and siliques, emphasizing differential functions for the two gene products. Analysis of transcript levels alone does not allow to draw conclusions about the levels of the corresponding polypeptides, as for example protein turnover in different plant tissues or organs can be variable. Therefore, protein extracts from different plant tissues were prepared and their AMI1 content was analyzed by immunodetection, utilizing a further developed, previously described anti-AMI1-serum (Pollmann et al. CITATION). The levels of AMI1 protein in the different organs indeed differ somewhat from the transcript levels described above. Whereas high AMI1 levels in sink leaves reflected the transcriptional situation, the immunological detection revealed very low amounts of AMI1 in all other tissues analyzed (Fig. 5b). The major difference between transcript and protein levels was found in flowers where AMI1-transcript levels are comparable to those in sink leaves. In root tissue, RT-PCR experiments showed low levels of AMI1-mRNA, while in Western blots AMI1-polypeptide was not detectable. Interestingly, in siliques—in contrast to all other organs—AMI1-immunoreactivity is represented as a faint double band (Fig. 5b). Thus, leaving open the possibility of a post-translational modification of the amidase polypeptide in this specific tissue. [[FIGURE]]  In the plant kingdom, only two members of the amidase-signature family of hydrolytic enzymes are assigned for their specific enzymatic function so far. The first identified enzyme was AMI1 (Pollmann et al. CITATION), the second a fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), capable of converting N-acylethanolamine (NAE) to ethanolamine and the free acid (Shrestha et al. CITATION). Moreover, it had previously been demonstrated that orthologous FAAHs also cleave fatty acid derivatives like oleamide (cis-9,10-octadecenoamide), releasing fatty acids and ammonia (Patricelli and Cravatt CITATION). In the first study on AMI1 (Pollmann et al. CITATION), neither fatty acid amides nor N-acylethanolamines were tested as potential substrates, and, as a consequence, a function of AMI1 as a FAAH cannot be excluded. Thus, the substrate specificities of the two recombinant proteins were compared in this study. Whereas the A. thaliana FAAH showed a very narrow substrate spectrum, more or less refusing all offered substrates except N-acylethanolamines and oleamide (Fig. 6), AMI1 shows to be specific for IAM, but the enzyme shows high activity also with 1-naphthaleneacetamide (NAM), a compound which is not occurring in plants. However, the cleavage product, 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) is a strong synthetic auxin in plants. Interestingly, auxin activity has been reported for NAM (Upadhyaya et al. CITATION). Our results show that the auxin activity may not reside in NAM itself, even more so that NAM does not follow Thimann’s 0.55-nm rule for auxin activity, but that it may result from NAA liberated from NAM via IAM hydrolases. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! If not stated otherwise, all experiments were carried out using A. thaliana (L.) Heynh. Col-0 (originally from Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre, NASC, stock N1092). All plant organs were harvested from plants grown in a greenhouse on a mixture of soil and sand (2:1) for 4–5 weeks in short days (8-h photoperiod). Thereafter, plants were transferred to long day conditions (16-h photoperiod). The greenhouse was maintained under constant climatic conditions, 22–24°C during daytime and 18–20°C over night. The photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) was no less than 150 μmol photons m−2 s−1 (supplementary light, if required, from sodium-vapor lamps). All molecular techniques were performed using standard protocols according to Sambrook et al. (CITATION) or Ausubel et al. (CITATION). To generate vectors for fluorescence analysis in transiently transformed plant cells, the expression cassettes containing the genes of the two fluorescent proteins, EGFP and DsRed were excised with HindIII/EcoRI from the vectors pFF19-GFP and pFF19-RFP (Wachter et al. CITATION), respectively, and integrated into the HindIII/EcoRI site of the vector pQE-30Xa (Qiagen), which was first modified by XbaI/NheI restriction followed by religation to eliminate an additional XbaI site, resulting in pSP-EGFP and pSP-DsRed. To create a control construct (pSP-CRY2(Δ1-500)-DsRed) for proteins with nuclear localization, a fragment of cryptochrome 2 was amplified which encodes the C-terminal amino acids 501–612. These are sufficient for nuclear import as shown by Kleiner et al. (CITATION). In the course of PCR, restriction sites for SacI and KpnI were added to the cDNA fragment, which were afterwards used for fusing the CRY2 fragment with the DsRed gene in pSP-DsRed. Besides the EGFP expression vector (pSP-EGFP), a second construct (pEGG) with an additional GUS gene in front of the EGFP coding sequence was produced. To achieve this, the GUS-gene was amplified by PCR, thus adding SalI and PstI restriction sites that allowed cloning into the multiple cloning site of pSP-EGFP using the enzyme combination SalI and PstI. Finally, the cDNA region encoding amidase 1 (AMI1) was amplified by PCR from a plasmid-template containing the corresponding cDNA using gene-specific primers (5′-TATGCTAGCACTAGTATGGCGACCAATAATGATTTTGGAG, 5′-TATCTCGAGAATAAATGCAGCAAGGGAATCC) with additional SpeI and XhoI sites. This fragment was cloned into the XbaI and SalI restriction sites of pSP-EGFP and pEGG, making use of the compatible ends of SpeI/XbaI and XhoI/SalI, respectively, resulting in pSP-AMI1-EGFP and pEGG-AMIf. The sequences of all nucleotide fragments obtained by PCR as well as the translational fusions of the cDNA fragments were verified by commercial DNA sequencing (GATC, Konstanz, Germany). Four- to six-week-old A. thaliana seedlings grown under sterile conditions on solidified 1/2 MS-medium supplemented with 2% (w/v) sucrose in Petri dishes (Murashige and Skoog CITATION) were bombarded with 1-μm gold particles at 6.5 bar pressure. The particles were emitted from a particle inflow gun as described by Finer et al. (CITATION). The conditions for the bombardment of plant cells were set to −0.8 bar chamber vacuum, 7 cm distance of particle outlet to the dispersive grid and 12 cm distance to the plantlets (Bruce et al. CITATION). After bombardment the plants were kept under constant conditions (8-h light at 24°C, 16-h darkness at 20°C, PAR 105 μmol photons m−2 s−1 from standard white fluorescent tubes) for 1 day. Single leaves of the transformed seedlings were then analyzed with the confocal laser scanning system ZEISS LSM 510 Meta. Excitation light of 488 nm produced by a krypton/argon laser allowed the simultaneous detection of GFP-mediated and chlorophyll-mediated fluorescence using a meta detector system with emission filters set to 500–530 nm for GFP and 650–798 nm for the chlorophyll-autofluorescence, respectively. An additional excitation of the samples at 543 nm (helium/neon laser) permitted a concurrent analysis of DsRed-derived fluorescence by recording the light passing an emission filter in the range of 575–595 nm. Total RNA was prepared from 100 mg of plant tissue. The samples were homogenized in 1 ml of Trizol reagent (Invitrogen) in a prechilled mortar. For RT-PCR analysis, total RNA was extracted and converted to cDNA by using M-MLV reverse transcriptase (Promega) with oligo-d(T)15 primers (Promega) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Thereafter, genomic DNA residuals were eliminated by a DNase (Promega) treatment of 30 min following the manufacturer’s advices. Two cDNA fragments of 518 bp (AMI1) (At1g08980) and 736 bp (FAAH) (At5g64440), respectively, were amplified from 80 ng of total RNA by 30 PCR cycles using intron spanning specific primer sets for AMI1 (5′-ATGGCGACCAATAATGATTTTGG, 5′-CCAACTGTGTCGAAGCTCTG) and FAAH (5′-ACCGGAGCATGATGTTGTC, 5′-ACCCTGTCATATCTGTCCGAC), allowing to distinguish between genomic DNA and cDNA. As controls, cDNA fragments with sizes of 696 bp (ACT2), 682 bp (EF-1α), and 721 bp (eIF4-A1) of constitutively expressed genes representing, respectively, actin 2 (An et al. CITATION), elongation factor 1-α (At5g60390; Reddy et al. CITATION) and eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4A-1 (At3g13920; Metz et al. CITATION) were simultaneously amplified from 40 ng total RNA by 30 PCR cycles with the following, likewise intron spanning oligonucleotide pairs: ACT2 (5′-GTCGCCATCCAAGCTGTTCT, 5′-CTGCCTCATCATACTCGGCC), EF-1α (5′-ATGGGTAAAGAGAAGTTTCAC, 5′-CTTGGGCTCGTTGATCTGG), and eIF4-A1 (5′-ATGGCAGGATCTGCACCAG, 5′-GATTCTCACTGGCTTGCTC). To ensure a linear range of PCR amplification the amount of initial mRNA used was varied, 80 ng for low abundant AMI1 and FAAH fragments or 40 ng for the control fragments, respectively. Recombinant fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) was expressed in Escherichia coli TOP10 harboring the expression vector pTrcHis2 (Invitrogen) containing the full-length FAAH-cDNA, kindly provided by Dr. Rhidaya Shrestha and Dr. Kent D. Chapman, as described by Shrestha et al. (CITATION). Hexahistidine-tagged amidase 1 (AMI1) was expressed in E. coli M15 harboring the vector pQE-30 (Qiagen) with a BamHI/SalI-integrated AMI1-cDNA according to the manufacturer’s protocol with the following exceptions: Bacterial cultures were incubated at 37°C until they reached an OD600 of 0.85. Thereafter, they were transferred to 30°C and protein expression was induced by adding 200 μM IPTG. Hereafter the cultures were incubated for another 16 h at 30°C before the proteins were harvested. To prepare tissue specific plant protein extracts for subsequent assays, organs were harvested from 4 to 8-week-old plants and homogenized in 1 ml g−1 prechilled extraction buffer (50 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 200 mM sucrose, 3 mM DTT, 3 mM EDTA). The extract was filtered through miracloth and centrifuged at 12,000g for 45 min. The resulting supernatants were desalted using PD-10 columns (Amersham Biosciences) equilibrated in 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.5, and consecutively concentrated by ultrafiltration with the help of Centricon YM-30 units. Afterwards the samples were centrifuged at 100,000g for 45 min, separating the soluble proteins (supernatant) from the microsomal fraction (pellet). After determination of the protein concentration, 35 μg of protein from the soluble fraction of each tissue was precipitated with three volumes of MeOH, and the proteins were separated by exponential-gradient PAGE. The enzymatic activity of the recombinant amidohydrolases was determined by monitoring the release of ammonia during the reaction as previously described (Vorwerk et al. CITATION). In brief, the different substrates (5 mM) were incubated with 5 μg of purified protein in 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer at pH 7.5, at 30°C in a total volume of 0.3 ml. For background control, heat-denatured enzyme (20 min, 100°C) was used. After 3–4 h of incubation aliquots of 0.1 ml were taken, and the reaction was stopped by adding 0.1 ml each of 0.33 M sodium phenolate, 0.02 M sodium hypochlorite, and 0.01% (w/v) sodium pentacyanonitrosyl ferrate(III) (sodium nitroprusside). After incubating for 2 min at 100°C (water bath), each sample was diluted with 0.6 ml of water, and the absorbance was read at 640 nm. Each experiment was calibrated utilizing NH4Cl solutions of known concentrations. In case of analyzing the 16:0 and 18:2 N-acylethanolamine conversion, the amount of enzymatically produced free fatty acids was examined. For this reason, 5 μg affinity-purified protein was incubated with 1 mM substrate over a time period of 1 h at 30°C in 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH 7.5), in a total reaction volume of 0.1 ml. Thereafter, the reaction was stopped by acidifying with 5 μl of 3 M HCl. Produced free fatty acids were twice extracted with 0.1 ml of chloroform, and the combined solution was then brought to dryness. The precipitate was re-dissolved in 20 μl methanol, treated with 0.1 ml ethereal diazomethane and subsequently the solvent was removed under a gentle stream of nitrogen. The methylated samples were then taken up in 20 μl chloroform and transferred to GC vials. The GC–MS analysis was performed according to Stelmach et al. (CITATION). Typical retention times (methyl esters) were as follows: hexadecanoic acid (palmitic acid), 14.17 min (m/z = 217 [M + H]+), (9Z,12Z)-octadecadienoic acid (linoleic acid), 15.46 min (m/z = 245 + 263 [M + H]+). The amount of free fatty acids was calculated by comparing results to external standards (free fatty acids) of known concentrations. As a negative control, a tryptic digest of the sample protein was used. Protein concentrations were determined according to Bradford (CITATION) with bovine serum albumin as protein standard. Plant protein extracts were separated by 10–20% (w/v) SDS-polyacrylamide-gradient gels as described by Scharf and Nover (CITATION). To visualize the separated proteins in the gels, they were stained with Coomassie brilliant blue. For immunoblotting, the polypeptides were transferred to nitrocellulose (Towbin et al. CITATION) after their electrophoretical separation. The immunological detection of AMI1 was carried out according to Pollmann et al. (CITATION) with an anti-AMI1-serum used at a final dilution of 1:25,000. The difference in anti-serum dilution (previously 1:1,000) is due to the development of the serum over the boosting-time. The serum for these experiments was taken after the 15th boost of the rabbit, instead of serum harvested after the 1st boost in the publication mentioned above.
