!~ABS~! Mnd1 has recently been identified in yeast as a key player in meiotic recombination. Here we describe the identification and functional characterisation of the Arabidopsis homologue, AtMND1, which is essential for male and female meiosis and thus for plant fertility. Although axial elements are formed normally, sister chromatid cohesion is established and recombination initiation appears to be unaffected in mutant plants, chromosomes do not synapse. During meiotic progression, a mass of entangled chromosomes, interconnected by chromatin bridges, and severe chromosome fragmentation are observed. These defects depend on the presence of SPO11-1, a protein that initiates recombination by catalysing DNA double-strand break (DSB) formation. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the AtMND1 protein interacts with AHP2, the Arabidopsis protein closely related to budding yeast Hop2. These data demonstrate that AtMND1 plays a key role in homologous synapsis and in DSB repair during meiotic recombination.
!~RES~! Zierhut et al. (CITATION) present predicted homologues of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Mnd1 gene found in BLAST searches (CITATION) against GenBank. Genes were found in Encephalozoon cuniculi, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, A. thaliana, Mus musculus and Homo sapiens. An Mnd1 gene homologue has not been found in either Drosophila melanogaster or Caenorhabditis elegans (CITATION), both of which differ from other organisms with respect to the initial stages of meiosis. The A. thaliana gene homologue of the yeast Mnd1 gene has been named AtMND1 (At4g29170). It shares 43% identity to the human, 42% to the mouse, 38% to the S. pombe and 26% to the S. cerevisiae gene homologues. AtMND1 has ten exons; its mRNA, including 5′ and 3′ UTRs, is 994 bp in length as determined by RACE (GenBank accession number: DQ248000), and its ORF is 693 bp in length (Fig. 1A). We obtained the AtMND1 cDNA sequence from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (CITATION) and confirmed its identity by sequencing. An insertion mutant line (SALK_110052), carrying a T-DNA insertion in the AtMND1 gene region, was identified in the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory T-DNA collection (CITATION). In Fig. 1A, the position of the T-DNA insertion within the seventh intron of the AtMND1 gene is shown. PCR amplification of T-DNA border regions was accomplished by combining primers from the left border of the T-DNA with gene-specific primers. Sequencing of these PCR products revealed, that the T-DNA insert has two left borders and that a 85-bp fragment of the seventh intron of the AtMND1 sequence is deleted in the mutant plant (Fig. 1B). DNA gel blot analysis was performed to characterise the nature of the T-DNA insertion. DNA from individual plants was extracted, digested with the endonuclease HindIII, separated, and blotted. Detection of the AtMND1 sequence was performed with a probe corresponding to the entire genomic region of AtMND1. The blot shows the expected bands for wild-type (+/+) (0.8 kb band; 3.2 kb band), heterozygous (+/-) (0.8 kb band; 2.2/2.3 kb bands; 3.2 kb band) and homozygous mutant plants (-/-) (2.2/2.3 kb bands; 3.2 kb band) (Fig. 1A,C). Re-probing the blot with a probe derived from the T-DNA, indicated that there is only one T-DNA integration locus, which consists of multiple T-DNA repeats (data not shown). Plant genotypes were routinely determined by multiplex PCR, combining primers M2, M3 and LBa1 in one reaction (Fig. 1A,D). The expected DNA fragment lengths for wild-type and mutant alleles are ∼0.9 kb and ∼1.3 kb, respectively. Wild-type and homozygous mutant plants, selected by PCR, were analysed for expression of the AtMND1 gene by RT-PCR. The cDNA of AtMND1 (693 bp) was only detected in wild-type samples. By contrast, the ACTIN cDNA control (390 bp) was detected in mutant and wild-type samples (Fig. 1E). Expression of AtMND1 was found in buds, leaves and shoots (Fig. 1E). This finding is consistent with publicly available microarray data (http://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch).   [[FIGURE]] Plants heterozygous for the Atmnd1 mutation were indistinguishable from wild-type plants and self-fertilisation produced homozygous mutants in the expected 3:1 ratio. Homozygous Atmnd1 mutants do not have any obvious growth aberrations during vegetative development. The mutants germinate at the same time as wild-type plants and develop at the same rate. Rosette leaves looked normal and bolting was not delayed. Inflorescences also looked normal but none of the siliques of Atmnd1 plants elongated. Whereas senescent shoots of wild-type plants had long siliques and a terminal inflorescence that ceased to develop further, Atmnd1 mutant plants possess only very short siliques and an inflorescence that produces flowers for a much longer time period than wild-type plants. The short siliques of Atmnd1 plants produced only 0.033 seeds/silique (n=4930) (Fig. 2A). About half of these seeds germinated (0.019% seeds/silique), but very few formed a plant body. None of these plants had a normal morphology and none produced seeds (data not shown). To confirm that the Atmnd1 mutation caused the sterility phenotype, heterozygous Atmnd1 mutant plants were transformed with a T-DNA construct containing a genomic DNA fragment, harbouring the AtMND1 gene and its putative promoter region. Transformants were selected and simultaneously screened with PCR for the presence of the Atmnd1 mutation. Four individual transformants, containing the complementing T-DNA and harbouring the Atmnd1 mutant allele either in heterozygous or homozygous configuration were analysed for the production of sterile offspring plants. All offspring that contained the complementing T-DNA (n=108) were fertile, indicating complete reversion of the sterility phenotype in the presence of a genomic copy of AtMND1 (Fig. 2A). Both the sterility observed in our Atmnd1 mutant plants as well the results of Mnd1 analyses in other organisms suggested that there is a meiotic defect in A. thaliana Atmnd1 mutants. The viability of pollen grains, the products of male meiosis, can easily be visualised by Alexander staining (CITATION). Wild-type anthers contain many mature and viable pollen grains, as visualised by the red staining of the cytoplasm (Fig. 2B). By contrast, Atmnd1 mutant plants develop anthers that are devoid of regular pollen grains. The aborted pollen grains, visualised by the green counter-stain of the pollen wall, are generally smaller and variable in size (Fig. 2B). 93% of all Atmnd1 anthers contained no viable pollen grains, 6% contained one and 1% contained two viable pollen grains (n=81). All of these viable pollen grains looked bigger and non-regular in shape (supplementary material Fig. S1G-J). We investigated the behaviour of meiotic chromosomes in Atmnd1 mutants and in wild-type plants, by means of a meiocyte spreading technique (Fig. 3). In wild-type meiocytes, the ten A. thaliana chromosomes appear as thread-like structures in leptotene (Fig. 3A), undergo synapsis in zygotene (Fig. 3B) and are fully synapsed along their entire lengths, at pachytene (Fig. 3C). After the disappearance of the SC in diplotene (Fig. 3D), the resulting five bivalents condensed, revealing the presence of chiasmata in diakinesis (Fig. 3E,F). The bivalents assembled at the metaphase I plate (Fig. 3G) and segregated homologues at anaphase I (Fig. 3H). During meiosis II, the second round of segregation leads to the formation of four sets of five chromatids (Fig. 3I).   [[FIGURE]] In Atmnd1 meiocytes, the first step of prophase I, leptotene, appeared similar to that in wild-type meiocytes (compare Fig. 3J with 3A). The first observable defect in Atmnd1 meiocytes was the absence of typical zygotene and pachytene stages, during which synapsis normally occurs. Instead, we observed zygotene-like (compare Fig. 3K with 3B) and pachytene-like stages (compare Fig. 3L to 3C), with a clear absence of extended synapsis. Some alignment seemed to occur at this stage but the short stretches of associated chromosome axes observed, could have been formed by chance during the spreading procedure. In any case, it became clear from subsequent stages that synapsis, even if initiated, did not extend to completion in the Atmnd1 mutant. Subsequently, chromosomes condensed progressively and altered chromosome structures during early diakinesis-like stage (Fig. 3M) and diakinesis-like stage (compare Fig. 3N with 3F). DNA masses erratically linked by chromatin bridges became visible. Instead of five separated bivalents, maintained by chiasmata, an entangled mass of chromosomes was observed at the metaphase-I-like stage (compare Fig. 3O with 3G). At anaphase I, the chromosome mass separated and chromosome fragments appeared (Fig. 3P). During the second meiotic division, chromosome fragmentation was visible at the metaphase-II-like stage (Fig. 3Q) and became more pronounced at the telophase-II-like stage (Fig. 3R). As meiotic defects can have different consequences for male and female meiosis in Arabidopsis (CITATION), we investigated female meiosis and gametophyte development in Atmnd1 plants. We found that 2.4% of fully grown ovules in Atmnd1-/- mutants contained apparently normal embryo sacs, 2.8% contained an embryo sac blocked during mitotic divisions and 94.8% contained a degenerated or a single nucleus embryo sac (n=611) (supplementary material Fig. S1A-F). We pollinated Atmnd1-/- mutants with wild-type pollen and found 2.2% seed formation (1.08 seeds/silique, n=25) when compared with the wild type (50 seeds/silique). Only 0.68 seeds/silique were viable, leading to an overall fertility of 1.4%. This indicates that female meiosis is less affected than male meiosis. The cytological defects observed were similar to those seen in male meiosis (Fig. 4). Typical pachytene stages were not observed (compare Fig. 4D with 4A), an entangled chromosome mass instead of five bivalents was formed at metaphase I-like stages (compare Fig. 4E with 4B) and chromosome fragmentation appeared at anaphase I-like stages (compare Fig. 4F with 4C). Chromosomes undergo pairing during meiosis in wild-type plants, with telomeres clustering during leptotene at the nucleolus and associating in pairs before recombination-mediated alignment of chromosomes (CITATION). In zygotene, FISH signals corresponding to regions adjacent to telomeres are paired or are in close proximity (Fig. 5A, red signal corresponds to a sub-telomeric region of chromosome 2), whereas interstitial chromosomal regions are paired or not, depending on the progression of zygotene (Fig. 5A, green signal corresponds to an interstitial region of chromosome 1). In pachytene, chromosome pairing is completed and only one signal can be seen for each FISH probe (Fig. 5B). Homologous chromosomes separate during anaphase I, a process that requires sister-chromatid cohesion to be lost in arm regions (reviewed by CITATION). Therefore, a pair of FISH signals, corresponding to the two sister-chromatids, are frequently seen on each homologue (Fig. 5C). In Atmnd1 mutants, no pairing of homologues is observed. In zygotene, the sub-telomeric regions are sometimes paired or in close proximity to each other (red signal, Fig. 5D), but no pairing was ever detected during meiotic progression for the two FISH probes analyzed (pachytene-like stage shown in Fig. 5E). At the anaphase-I-like stage (Fig. 5F), chromosome fragmentation and chromosome bridges were visible and the FISH signals indicate that homologous chromosomes 1 and 2 do not regularly segregate. To determine whether SPO11 function is involved in the chromosome fragmentation observed in prophase I in Atmnd1 mutant plants, we generated Atmnd1 spo11-1 double mutants. Although A. thaliana possesses three SPO11 homologues, SPO11-1 is probably the only meiotic protein of the three SPO11 proteins (CITATION; CITATION) (M. Grelon, INRA IJPB, Versailles, France, personal communication). Meiotic progression of spo11-1 mutants was compared with Atmnd1 spo11-1 double mutants (Fig. 6). Leptotene stages (not shown) were comparable with wild-type meiocytes. However, neither single nor double mutants displayed paired chromosomes; thus, only failed zygotenes (Fig. 6A,G) and only unsynapsed chromosomes of a pachytene-like stage (Fig. 6B,H) were observed. During diakinesis (Fig. 6C,I), chromosomes condensed and ten univalents were visible which then, after alignment at metaphase I, were randomly distributed at anaphase I (Fig. 6D,J). Randomly distributed chromosomes aligned in metaphase II (Fig. 6E,K) and chromatids, after separation at anaphase II, were incorporated into polyads (Fig. 6F,L). The Atmnd spo11-1 double mutant displayed the same meiotic defect as the spo11-1 mutant, indicating that the function of SPO11 is epistatic to AtMND1. In other words, the DNA fragmentation and chromosome entanglements seen in Atmnd1 mutants stem from the activity of the Spo11-1 enzyme.   [[FIGURE]] ASY1 is a meiosis-specific protein intimately associated with the chromosome axes during prophase I (CITATION). SCC3 is a member of the cohesin complex and localizes along chromosome axes (CITATION). Both proteins behaved similarly in Atmnd1 mutants compared with wild-type plants during the leptotene stage (data not shown) indicating that axial elements are formed normally and that sister-chromatid cohesion is established in Atmnd1 mutants. In Atmnd1 mutants, chromosome axes visualised with antibodies against ASY1 and SCC3, respectively, are not incorporated into an SC structure. We could not identify a pachytene stage in Atmnd1 mutants as we did in the wild type (Fig. 7). The chromosome fragmentation defect observed during meiosis in Atmnd1 is compatible with a defect in the processing of DSBs that initiate recombination. We thus investigated the behaviour of RAD51, a key protein involved in mediating strand invasion during DSB repair. We immunolocalised the RAD51 protein on chromosome spreads and obtained results similar to those previously reported (CITATION). Numerous foci appeared at leptotene (Fig. 8A), probably corresponding to sites at which recombination had been initiated, and were observable during zygotene (Fig. 8B). The Atmnd1 leptotene and zygotene stages were indistinguishable from wild-type cells, with respect to RAD51 focus formation (Fig. 8C,D), indicating that DSBs are made at a normal level.   [[FIGURE]] AHP2 is the Arabidopsis homologue of Hop2 (CITATION), a yeast protein that interacts with Mnd1. We used a Y2H assay to test for a potential interaction between AtMND1 and AHP2. For this, we cloned the AtMND1 cDNA into a yeast expression vector in-frame with a GAL4 DNA-binding domain, and the AHP2 cDNA in-frame with a GAL4 activator domain, and vice versa. Plasmids encoding DNA-binding domain and activator-domain fusion proteins were transformed together into yeast strain AH109 (Clontech). Control experiments were performed, by transforming AH109 with combinations of fusion-protein-containing vectors and empty vectors (Fig. 9). Whereas all plasmid combinations enabled yeast strain AH109 to grow on synthetic dropout (SD) medium selecting for the presence of the plasmids (SD -Leu/-Trp), only simultaneous transformation of plasmids encoding AtMND1 and AHP2 fusion proteins led to growth on selective plates (SD -Leu/-Trp/-His). We therefore conclude that AtMND1 interacts with AHP2. Somatic expression of MND1 has been observed in humans (CITATION) and in A. thaliana (Fig. 1E) but not in yeast. Data from publicly accessible microarray databases (http://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch) show that AtMND1 expression is upregulated approximately fivefold in response to genotoxic stress (AHP2 is upregulated eightfold). These expression data point to a potential role of Mnd1 in somatic cells, presumably in DNA repair; this hypothesis has not yet been tested in mammals, as there is no mutant available. However, we investigated this issue in wild-type and Atmnd1 mutant plants exposed to different genotoxic treatments. Mutant plants were germinated on plates containing different concentrations of hydroxyurea (HU). HU depletes the pool of dNTPs by inhibiting ribonucleotide reductase (RNR) (CITATION), leading to a replication block and subsequent DNA DSBs. The length of developing roots in Atmnd1 plants was monitored and compared with wild-type plants (CITATION). We could not detect any influence of the Atmnd1 mutation on root growth on media plates with or without HU (data not shown). In addition, we germinated seedlings on media plates and exposed them to different doses of gamma-radiation to induce DSBs (CITATION). Exposure to gamma-radiation interfered with development to a similar extent in mutant and wild-type plants (data not shown). Furthermore, Atmnd1 mutant plants had no growth defect when grown under normal conditions, contrary to the DNA-repair-deficient mutants mre11 (CITATION) and rad50 (D. Vezon and M. Grelon, INRA, IJPB, Versailles, France, personal communication). Therefore, it was concluded that AtMND1 has no essential role in somatic DNA repair, at least under the conditions tested.   [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All plants were germinated on media containing MS salts and 1% sucrose, and were transferred to soil after 3 weeks. Plants were grown at 22°C with a 16:8 hour light:dark photoperiod. Seeds of the Atmnd1 A. thaliana SALK_110052 line were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Center (Nottingham, UK). Since Atmnd1 mutants are sterile, the mutant allele was maintained by self-fertilization of heterozygous plants. Atmnd1/spo11-1 double mutants were generated by crossing plants heterozygous for the Atmnd1 mutation to plants heterozygous for an insertion in the SPO11-1 gene (CITATION). Double mutants were identified by PCR of the F2 population, obtained by self-fertilising F1 plants heterozygous for both genes. Transformation of plants heterozygous for the Atmnd1 mutation with pBIB-Hyg/gAtMND1, using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101, was performed as described (CITATION). DNA from flowers of individual plants was extracted according to Cocciolone and Cone (CITATION). DNA gel blot analysis of the AtMND1 locus was performed with 1 μg genomic DNA digested with HindIII. A 32P-labelled genomic fragment amplified by PCR with primers M1 and M4 was used as a probe for hybridisation. Plants were genotyped by PCR with two gene-specific primers and one primer specific for the left border of the T-DNA. Primers M2, M3 and LBa1 were used for the AtMND1 locus. A 990 bp product was generated from wild-type alleles and a 1342 bp product from the Atmnd1 mutant allele. Primers SPO1, SPO2 and LB-BAR2 were used for the SPO11-1 locus, resulting in a 943 bp band and a ∼500 bp product for wild-type and spo11-1 alleles, respectively. For amplification of border regions, primers N610052U and LBSALK1 were combined in one reaction and N610052L and LBSALK1 in another reaction. Sequences of both PCR products were obtained (Genoscreen) and analysed with DNASSIST software (http://www.dnassist.org). For construction of the complementing construct pBIB-Hyg/gAtMND1, BAC clone ATF19B15, obtained from ABRC (Columbus, Ohio), was digested with XmnI and a 3806 bp genomic DNA fragment, harbouring the AtMND1 gene and its putative promoter region, was ligated to the SmaI-digested plant binary vector pBIB-Hyg (CITATION) and used for transformation. For construction of the AtMND1-GAL4DB fusion protein vector, the AtMND1 cDNA sequence, contained within plasmid U50561 (GenBank accession number BT005435), was amplified by PCR (Ex-Taq polymerase/TaKaRa, according to the manufacturer's instructions) with primers M1 and M4 and ligated into plasmid pCR2.1.TOPO (Invitrogen). The cDNA was released as a NdeI/BamHI fragment from this vector and ligated into vector pGBKT7 (Clontech) digested with the same enzymes, giving rise to the Y2H vector pGBKT7/AtMND1. For construction of the AHP2-GALAD fusion protein, vector pGAD10 (Clontech) was digested with EcoRI, followed by Klenow treatment and subsequently digested with BamHI. AHP2 cDNA (CITATION) was digested with XbaI, followed by Klenow treatment and subsequently digested with BamHI. Ligation of these DNA fragments resulted in Y2H vector pGAD10/AHP2. For construction of the AHP2-GAL4DB fusion protein vector, AHP2 cDNA, contained within plasmid pGAD10/AHP2, was amplified by PCR (Ex-Taq polymerase/TaKaRa) with primers AHP2_Ncodn and AHP2_PstIup. The PCR fragment was digested with restriction enzymes NcoI and PstI and ligated into vector pGBKT7 digested with the same enzymes, giving rise to Y2H vector pGBKT7/AHP2. For construction of the AtMND1-GAL4AD fusion protein vector, the AtMND1 cDNA, contained within plasmid U50561, was amplified by PCR (Ex-Taq polymerase/TaKaRa) with primers Mnd1_EcoRIdn and MndI_PstIup. The PCR fragment was digested with restriction enzymes EcoRI and PstI and ligated into vector pGAD424 (Clontech) digested with the same enzymes, giving rise to the Y2H vector pGAD424/AtMND1. All PCR generated AtMND1 and AHP2 fragments were sequenced to confirm error-free amplification. pGAD10 and pGAD424 are identical, and only differ in their multiple-cloning sites. Details of all primers used in this study can be found in supplementary material Table S1. Total RNA was extracted from the indicated tissue using the TriReagent solution (Sigma, St Louis, MO), followed by DNA digestion (DNase, RNase free, 10 U/μl, Roche), phenol/chloroform extraction and RNA precipitation. 2 μg total RNA was used as a template for reverse transcription and generation of AtMND1 and ACTIN2/7 (At5g09810) cDNAs. Synthesis was primed by oligonucleotides M1 and Actin2.2 in one reaction and catalysed by AMV-RT as recommended by the manufacturer (Promega). One-tenth of the cDNA was used for PCR amplification with primers M1 and M4, and Actin2.1 and Actin2.2, respectively, applying standard PCR conditions. For rapid amplification of the 3′ end of the AtMND1 cDNA ends (RACE), 5 μg total RNA from buds of wild-type plants was reverse-transcribed with AMV-RT (Promega) using primer AnchordT, as described above. 5 μl of this reaction was used as a template in a standard PCR reaction with primers Anchor and Mnd1_3RACE1. The PCR reaction was diluted 1:100 and 1 μl was used as a template for a second PCR, with nested primer Mnd1_3RACE2 and primer Anchor. The amplification product was gel-purified, ligated into PCR cloning vector pCR2.1TOPO (Invitrogen) and transformed into E. coli. Plasmids were isolated from five individual transformants and inserted PCR fragments were sequenced. For the RACE of the 5′ end of AtMND1, 3 μg RNA was reverse-transcribed using primer Mnd1_5RACE1 and M-MLV RT as recommended by the manufacturer (Promega). A polyA+ tail was generated by incubating half of the cDNA reaction with TdT (MBI Fermentas), according to the manufacturer's manual. 5 μl of this reaction was used in a standard PCR reaction with primers AnchordT and Mnd1_5RACE1. The PCR reaction was diluted 1:100 and 1 μl was used for a second PCR using nested primers Anchor and Mnd1_5RACE2 in a standard PCR reaction. This PCR reaction was diluted 1:100 and 1 μl was used for the third PCR using primer Anchor and the nested primer Mnd1_5RACE3. The amplification product was analysed as described for the 3′ product. DAPI staining of male meiotic chromosomes was performed as described (CITATION). Female meiotic chromosomes were observed as described (CITATION). The BAC clones F1N21 (chromosome 1) and F11L15 (chromosome 2) were obtained from ABRC (Columbus, Ohio), and used as probes. BAC DNA was isolated using the Qiagen Mini or Midi Prep kit and labelled by nick translation, following the manufacturer's instructions (Roche Diagnostics), with SpectrumGreen-dUTP (Vysis) and Cy3-dUTP (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech), respectively. Chromosome spreads were prepared according to Armstrong et al. (CITATION), except that whole flower buds were digested in 0.33% (w/v) cellulase `Onozuka R-10' (Serva) and 0.33% (w/v) pectolyase (Sigma-Aldrich) for 90 minutes at 37°C, and meiocytes were left in 60% acetic acid at 45°C for a few seconds before re-fixation. The FISH procedure was modified from Pedrosa et al. (CITATION) and Heslop-Harrison et al. (CITATION) as follows. Preparations were pre-treated with RNAase for 30 minutes only and chromosomes were denatured in hybridization mix for 3 minutes at 73°C. Photographs were taken on a Zeiss Axioplan microscope (Carl Zeiss) equipped with a mono cool-view CCD camera (Photometrics, Tucson, AZ) and the IPLab spectrum software (IPLab, Fairfax, USA). Digital images were imported into Adobe Photoshop CS version 8 for final processing. The immunolocalisation of the ASY1 and RAD51 proteins on chromosome spreads was carried out as described (CITATION), except that whole buds, instead of isolated anthers, were used. No pre-blocking was applied. 10 μl anti-ASY1 (rabbit, 1:1000) and 10 μl anti-AtRAD51 (rat, 1:500), both diluted in blocking buffer (PBS + 0.1% Triton + 3% BSA), were used in combination. The secondary antibodies (20 μl anti-rat Cy3, Dianova/Szabo, 1:1000, and 20 μl anti-rabbit FITC, Sigma, 1:200 in blocking buffer) were applied consecutively and incubated at 37°C for 30 minutes. Slides were mounted in 2 μg/ml DAPI in Vectashield. Photographs were taken as described for FISH. For ASY1 and SCC3 detection, chromosome spreads were prepared and immunofluorescence microscopy performed as described (CITATION), using a Leica DMRXA2 fluorescence microscope. The ASY1 polyclonal antibody (CITATION) was used at a working dilution of 1:500. The SCC3 antibody was described (CITATION) and used at a working dilution of 1:2000. Images were captured with a coolSNAP camera (Roper Scientific) driven by Openlab software (Improvision). These images were then processed with Adobe Photoshop 6.0 to improve image quality. Indicated combinations of plasmids were co-transformed into yeast strain AH109 (Clonetech) following the protocol for high-efficiency transformation of yeast (CITATION). Following transformation, colonies were selected for the presence of the plasmids, inoculated in liquid synthetic drop-out (SD) media (lacking the amino acids leucine and tryptophan, with the exception of untransformed strain AH109, which was grown in YPAD), grown to saturation and plated onto SD media plates, lacking the indicated amino acids. SD media plates lacking the amino acids leucine, tryptophan and histidine (SD -Leu/-Trp/-His) were supplemented with 1 mM 3-Amino-1,2,4-triazol (Sigma). Serial 1:5 dilutions were made in water and 3 μl of each dilution was used to yield one spot. Plates were incubated at 30°C for two (SD -Leu/-Trp) or three (SD -Leu/-Trp/-His) days before taking pictures. The pictures were taken with a Nikon Coolpix 4500 digital camera and processed in Adobe Photoshop CS version 8.
