!~ABS~! The proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) functions as a sliding clamp for DNA polymerase, and is thus a key actor in DNA replication. It is also involved in DNA repair, maintenance of heterochromatic regions throughout replication, cell cycle regulation and programmed cell death. Identification of PCNA partners is therefore necessary for understanding these processes. Here we identify two Arabidopsis SET-domain proteins that interact with PCNA: ATXR5 and ATXR6. A truncated ATXR5Δex2, incapable of interacting with PCNA, also occurs in planta. ATXR6, upregulated during the S phase, is upregulated by AtE2F transcription factors, suggesting that it is required for S-phase progression. The two proteins differ in their subcellular localization: ATXR5 has a dual localization in plastids and in the nucleus, whereas ATXR6 is solely nuclear. This indicates that the two proteins may play different roles in plant cells. However, overexpression of either ATXR5 or ATXR6 causes male sterility because of the degeneration of defined cell types. Taken together, our results suggest that both proteins may play a role in the cell cycle or DNA replication, and that the activity of ATXR5 may be regulated via its subcellular localization.
!~RES~! A yeast two-hybrid screening using PCNA as a bait allowed us to identify a tobacco cDNA, encoding a SET-domain protein, NTXR6. Two homologues of NTXR6 sharing 52% identity exist in Arabidopsis: ATXR5 (At5g09790) and ATXR6 (At5g24330). They share 61% and 69% identity with NTXR6, respectively, in their C-terminal region. Reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR allowed us to detect expression of both ATXR5 and ATXR6 in all tested organs (namely leaves, roots, stems, flowers and siliques). Comparison of the expression patterns of the two genes using the Genevestigator software (CITATION), revealed that ATXR5 is very highly expressed in pollen. In addition both genes are upregulated in tissues where cell division is active, and notably in shoot apices. ATXR5 and ATXR6 belong to the SET-domain protein family that comprises at least 37 members in Arabidopsis. They also possess a plant homeo-domain (PHD), like the Drosophila TRX protein. They were named ATXR (Arabidopsis tri-thorax related) rather than ATX because their SET domains have significantly diverged from that of other ATX proteins (CITATION). As stated above, they were assigned to a particular class of SET-domain proteins together with the yeast proteins SET3 and SET4, because they lack a pre-SET and a post-SET domain, and because several amino acids which are crucial for the LMT activity are not conserved in these sequences (CITATION). Indeed the yeast SET3 protein is found in a complex with no detectable LMT activity (CITATION). Other features seem to distinguish these proteins from the other Arabidopsis SET-domain proteins. Both ATXR5 and ATXR6 contain a putative PIP box (Figure 1), a conserved motif found in the sequence of several PCNA partners (CITATION). It is defined by the consensus sequence Q–xx–h–xx–a–a, where h represents hydrophobic residues (e.g. I or L), a represents aromatic residues (F or Y) and x is any amino acid. Such a motif can be found in both ATXR5 and ATXR6 amino acid sequences in the region encoded by the second exon (QKKILHFF and QTKIIDFF, respectively). To determine whether the ability to bind PCNA is a unique property of ATXR5/6, we searched for PCNA-binding motives using the signpt software (http://www.infobiogen.fr/services/analyseq/cgi-bin/signpt_in.pl) in the yeast proteins SET3 and SET4 as well as in all SET-domain proteins of Arabidopsis. Only three other SET-domain proteins from Arabidopsis contain a canonical PIP box (SUVH3, ATXR3 and ASHR3), and this motif is absent from SET3 and SET4. Furthermore, analysis of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from various plant species such as poplar, sunflower, potato, snapdragon and even Ceratopteris (a pteridophyte) revealed that homologues of ATXR5/6 are conserved in plant genomes, and that all of their homologues seem to retain the canonical PIP box (see Figure S1). This suggests that the ability to bind PCNA is crucial for the function of these proteins. [[FIGURE]] In addition, according to several software programs, ATXR5 is predicted to be targeted both to plastids and to the nucleus (Figure 1). In contrast, ATXR6 seems to lack the N-terminal-targeting peptide. Nevertheless, the plastid targeting of some well-known plastid division proteins such as AtFtsZ2-1 or AtFtsZ2-2 is predicted with a low score by various programs. The plastid import of ATXR6 can therefore not be excluded. Before further investigation of the function of ATXR5 and ATXR6, their ability to bind PCNA was tested. Both ATXR5 and ATXR6 can interact with both AtPCNA1 and AtPCNA2 in the yeast two-hybrid system (data not shown). Moreover, an ATXR5 cDNA lacking the second exon (encoding the PIP box) was found in data bases. It was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC) and was a good material to confirm that the interaction between ATXR5 and AtPCNA occurs via the PIP box. The truncated version of ATXR5 (ATXR5Δex2) interacts neither with AtPCNA1 nor with AtPCNA2 (see Figure S2). This cDNA differs from the full-length cDNA by only 81 bp, i.e. 27 amino acids. Thus, ATXR5 probably binds AtPCNA via the PIP box encoded by this short cDNA sequence. The RT-PCR analysis allowed us to confirm that both forms of ATXR5 exist in planta, although the variant including the second exon is by far the most abundant (see Figure S2). The ability of ATXR5 to bind AtPCNA could therefore be regulated through alternative splicing in planta. Proliferating cell nuclear antigen is a nuclear protein. According to bioinformatic predictions, ATXR5 and ATXR6 can also accumulate in the nucleus. To confirm that AtPCNA1 and AtPCNA2 interact with ATXR5 and ATXR6 in plant cells, bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) experiments were performed (CITATION). BY-2 cell protoplasts were transformed with constructs encoding a fusion between AtPCNA1 and the N-terminal region of yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) (AtPCNA1–YFPN), and between the whole ATXR6 amino acid sequence and the C-terminal region of YFP (ATXR6–YFPC). As shown in Figure 2, YFP fluorescence could be detected in the nucleus of protoplasts co-transformed with AtPCNA1–YFPN and ATXR6–YFPC, demonstrating that ATXR6 can interact with AtPCNA1 in plant cells. The same experiment was performed with the full-length coding sequence of ATXR5, but no fluorescence could be detected. This could be due to the fact that in these experimental conditions ATXR5 is targeted solely to plastids and does not accumulate in the nucleus where it could interact with AtPCNA. To test this, we used a truncated version of the ATXR5 coding sequence where we deleted the first 129 bp encoding the chloroplast-targeting peptide (ATXR5ΔT.P.). When protoplasts were co-transformed with ATXR5ΔT.P.–YFPC and AtPCNA1–YFPN, fluorescence could be detected in their nuclei (Figure 3). The same results were obtained with AtPCNA2, suggesting that all combinations can occur in planta. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] These results demonstrate (i) that ATXR5 and ATXR6 can bind AtPCNA in living plant cells and (ii) that the subcellular localization of ATXR5 is probably regulated via the presence/absence of its chloroplast-targeting sequence. To ascertain whether ATXR5 and ATXR6 accumulate in different subcellular compartments, their localization was studied in planta. Bioinformatic analysis suggests that ATXR5 is targeted both to the nucleus and to plastids. The localization of the protein might depend on the cell type or organ, and was therefore studied in planta. To this end, a construct encoding a translational fusion between ATXR5 and green fluorescent protein (GFP) expressed under the control of a 35S promoter was introduced into plants. Green fluorescent protein could be detected in the nucleus in roots (Figure 3d–f) and in anthers and leaves, but in these two organs GFP accumulated only in stomata guard cells (Figure 3c). Green fluorescent protein was also detected in plastids in petal cells (Figure 3a), but not in leaf cells. Moreover, GFP was not evenly distributed in the chloroplast stroma. Higher concentrations of the fusion protein were found at the periphery of the organelle (Figure 3b). Although the plants we analysed displayed a high expression of the construct at the transcriptional level, we were unable to detect GFP in many cell types, including mesophyll cells and meristematic cells. This suggests that post-translational mechanisms regulate the abundance of ATXR5 in these cell types, either by inhibiting the translation of the protein or by degrading it. Accumulation of GFP in the nucleus and in plastids could be observed in at least three independent lines for each cell type: ATXR5 can thus be targeted to these two cellular compartments. Both localizations were observed within a given plant, but we could never observe GFP in plastids and the nucleus within the same cell. This dual localization of ATXR5 is intriguing, but not unique. At least three other plant proteins have been reported to accumulate both in plastids and in the nucleus (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), and it is likely that more such proteins are to be found, as several yeast proteins can accumulate both in mitochondria and in the nucleus (CITATION). Several mechanisms have been described to allow dual localization of a single protein, both in yeast and plants, including alternative transcription initiation, alternative splicing, alternative translation initiation and, more rarely, post-translational modification (CITATION; CITATION). Reverse transcriptase-PCR did not allow us to isolate transcripts with different length in their 5′ region. In addition, the ATXR5 mRNA sequence contains several in-frame initiation codons, one of them corresponding to the last codon of the putative chloroplast-targeting sequence. CITATION have identified the optimal context sequence of the translation initiation codon in plants. A/G at position −3 and GC at position +4 + 5 are important both in tobacco and in maize. AUG codons situated at the beginning and at the end of the chloroplast-targeting sequence of ATXR5 meet these criteria. The subcellular localization of ATXR5 is therefore likely to be modulated by alternative translation initiation, but could also be modulated by post-translational modifications or via the binding to other factors. Indeed, this dual localization may be a regulatory mechanism, modulating the ability of ATXR5 to bind PCNA. Similar to the transcription factor IIB (TFIIB)-related protein pBrp (CITATION), ATXR5 could accumulate at the periphery of chloroplasts and be relocated to the nucleus, under certain conditions. Under such a hypothesis, its molecular function may relate to chromatin remodelling, because of its SET domain, but also to direct cell-cycle regulation via binding to PCNA. The fact that ATXR5 is predicted to be a stromal protein argues against such a hypothesis, as proteins cannot come out of chloroplasts once they have entered the organelle. However, pBrp is also predicted by the psort software to be a stromal protein, and this model would be consistent with the accumulation of ATXR5-GFP at the periphery of chloroplasts. Transient expression experiments revealed that ATXR6 is targeted only to the nucleus (data not shown). ATXR5 and ATXR6 can thus both be targeted to the nucleus, but ATXR5 can also accumulate in chloroplasts, at least in some cell-types, suggesting that the two proteins may fulfil distinct functions in separated cellular compartments. The sub-cellular localization of both ATXR5 and ATXR6 is compatible with an interaction with PCNA, which is a nuclear protein, and supports the hypothesis that ATXR5 and ATXR6 may be involved in cell cycle regulation. To test this, we first determined whether the expression of these two genes is higher in proliferating cells, as suggested by Genevestigator, and whether their expression is cell cycle regulated. To gain further insight into the pattern of expression of ATXR6, its whole genomic sequence including its promoter but lacking its 3′ untranslated region (UTR) was cloned in frame with GFP and introduced into plants. We then specifically searched for GFP in ATXR6 overexpressers (ATXR6OE). Roots of 10-day-old T2 plantlets were observed under a confocal microscope. As shown in Figure 4, GFP fluorescence was detected solely in the nuclei of root tip cells, demonstrating that ATXR6 accumulates in the nucleus of cells in planta. In addition, the protein accumulates in root meristems but not in differentiated root cells, consistent with the upregulation of ATXR6 in actively dividing cells. GFP fluorescence could also be observed in the nuclei of young leaf cells, but never in chloroplasts, confirming that ATXR5 and ATXR6 differ in their subcellular localization. [[FIGURE]] These results also suggest that ATXR5 and ATXR6 may differ in their expression pattern. Indeed ATXR6 seems to be restricted to proliferating cells, whereas ATXR5–GFP could only be observed in differentiated cells (namely stomata guard cells, differentiated root cells and petal cells). This could be due to completely different expression patterns of the two proteins, but this would not be consistent with the fact that both genes are upregulated in proliferating cells according to Genevestigator. Accumulation of ATXR5 in differentiated cells could be due to the fact that we used a 35S promoter, forcing expression of ATXR5 in cells where the gene is not normally expressed. In proliferating cells, the protein may be expressed, but its half-life could be short, preventing us from observing accumulation of GFP. To determine whether ATXR5 and ATXR6 are upregulated in proliferating cells, their regulation during the cell cycle was investigated. Northern blot analysis indeed allowed us to observe that expression of ATXR6, and to a lesser extent ATXR5, is raised in Arabidopsis cells re-entering the cell cycle after sucrose starvation or aphidicolin block (data not shown). The expression level of ATXR5 and ATXR6 was therefore monitored in synchronized Arabidopsis cells. Histone H4 was used as a marker for the G1–S phase and CyclinB1;1 as a marker for the G2–M phase. Because ATXR5 and ATXR6 are hardly detectable by Northern blot, their expression level was monitored by RT-PCR. Expression of all genes was quantified using the Quantity One 1D analysis software, and normalized using actin expression as a constitutive control. As shown in Figure 5, cells were blocked in S phase, as demonstrated by the high level of Histone H4 mRNA before aphidicolin block release. These cells progressed rapidly through the cell cycle, entered G2–M about 6 h after aphidicolin wash, and re-entered G1–S 14 h after aphidicolin wash. Expression of both ATXR5 and ATXR6 was high in blocked cells, decreased during G2 and M phases and was maximal in late G1–S, suggesting that these genes are mainly expressed at the G1–S transition. Similar results were obtained twice by independent synchronization experiments. The expression window of ATXR5 was much broader than that of ATXR6, suggesting its cell-cycle regulation is not as strict and that post-translational mechanisms may also be involved. To determine whether the abundance of the ATXR5 protein varied during the cell cycle, another synchronization experiment was performed, proteins were extracted from the synchronized cells and a Western blot analysis was conducted. ATXR5 accumulated at higher levels 10 h after aphidicolin release, during S phase (see Figure S3), as shown by the simultaneous accumulation of Histone H4 mRNA. This experiment also allowed us to check that the results obtained for ATXR6 were reproducible. [[FIGURE]] Thus ATXR5 and ATXR6 are both cell-cycle regulated, but this regulation involves distinct mechanisms. Expression of ATXR6 is induced in late G1 and early S, whereas ATXR5 protein accumulates later, supporting the hypothesis that these proteins function in the onset and/or progression of the S phase. ATXR6 is upregulated during late G1 and the S phase. Its promoter contains three E2F-binding sites and AtE2Fa overexpressers have been shown to accumulate more ATXR6 mRNA (CITATION). Although the promoters of several other genes of the SET-domain family contain putative E2F-binding sites, ATXR6 and ATX1 are the only ones to be upregulated in AtE2Fa, suggesting that their function is related to the cell cycle. Reverse transcriptase-PCR analysis showed that ATXR6 is up-regulated not only in AtE2Fa OE but also in AtE2Fb (see Figure S4). Moreover, AtE2FaOE accumulates more AtE2Fb protein than the wild-type (CITATION). ATXR6 could therefore be a target of either AtE2Fa or AtE2Fb. Several experiments were performed to investigate the regulation of ATXR6 by E2F proteins. First, we tested the ability of E2Fa and E2Fb to transactivate ATXR6 in transient expression experiments. To this end, we took advantage of the translational fusion between the whole ATXR6 genomic sequence and GFP. BY-2 protoplasts were transformed with this construct alone, or co-transformed with this construct and either AtE2Fa or AtE2Fb under the control of a 35S promoter. These 35S:AtE2F constructs have been previously shown to activate a GUS reporter gene placed under the control of six consecutive canonical E2F cis-elements (CITATION). No fluorescence was detected in BY-2 cells when they were transformed with ATXR6-GFP alone, or with ATXR6-GFP and 35S:AtE2Fa (Figure 6). By contrast, GFP-labelled nuclei could be observed when they were transformed with ATXR6-GFP and 35S:E2Fb. Some of these nuclei appeared speckled (Figure 6), suggesting that the protein is associated with chromatin. We have shown previously that AtE2Fa is a more potent activator than AtE2Fb under these conditions (CITATION), suggesting that ATXR6 is more efficiently upregulated by AtE2Fb than by AtE2Fa. [[FIGURE]] To verify whether these E2F sites were actually able to bind activating AtE2F factors we applied the chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) technique using polyclonal antibodies against DcE2F which recognize AtE2Fa and, to a lesser extent, AtE2Fb (CITATION). As a positive control, in order to assess the specificity of ChIP, the PCR reaction was performed on immunoprecipitated genomic fragments using primers specific for AtMCM3 (At5g46280) and AtPCNA1, which are well known E2F-responsive genes. Then to rule out unspecific interactions, PCR was also carried out using primers specific for the E2F non-responsive gene encoding glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) (Figure 6). In addition, a mock reaction, to which no antibodies were added, was used as a negative control. As shown in Figure 6, activating E2Fs can indeed bind this promoter. Taken together, these results strongly suggest that ATXR6 is a direct target of AtE2Fb, although we cannot rule out the possibility that it may also be a direct target of other AtE2Fs. By contrast, the ATXR5 promoter does not contain any E2F-binding site, and the abundance of ATXR5 mRNA is not modified in E2Fa or E2Fb overexpressers (see Figure S4). In yeast and animals, several chromatin remodelling and chromatin assembly factors bind to PCNA during DNA replication. These proteins are involved either in the maintenance of heterochromatic regions after DNA replication (reviewed in CITATION), or in chromatin remodelling at the origins of replication (e.g. CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As ATXR6 harbours a SET domain, one likely function would be to participate in chromatin remodelling. As stated above, it is probably not an active LMT. However, the yeast SET3 protein has been shown to be involved in chromatin remodelling although it is not a LMT (CITATION). Indeed, it is associated with histone deacetylases. Histone deacetylation, similarly to histone or DNA methylation, promotes the transition from euchromatin to heterochromatin (CITATION). ATXR6 could, like its yeast homologue, be involved in the regulation of gene expression. ATXR6 is cell-cycle regulated, possibly via the E2Fb transcription factor, it can interact with PCNA and its putative yeast homologue is found in a complex with histone deacetylases. This protein is therefore be a good candidate to play a role in the S-phase-dependent modification of histones. Taken together, our results strongly suggest that ATXR5 and ATXR6 are involved in cell-cycle regulation. To gain further insight into their exact role in plants, we analysed the phenotype of ATXR5 and ATXR6 overexpressers. ATXR5 overexpressers (ATXR5OE) expressing the full-length coding region of the gene under the control of a 35S promoter were obtained, and the phenotype of 50 independent transformants was analysed. About 20% of the T1 population was sterile. Seeds could be obtained by pollinating the plants with wild-type pollen, showing that they are only male sterile. Efficient expression of the construct in these plants was monitored by Northern blot analysis (see Figure S5). Lines 13 and 50 were used for further analysis. Alexander staining allowed us to assess the viability of the pollen grains. As shown in Figure 7(b), anthers contained few pollen grains, many of which appeared crumpled, green and empty. 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining of anthers at various stages revealed that meiosis occurred normally in these plants (data not shown). Figure 7(d) shows that male gametophytes of ATXR5OE undergo the two pollinic mitoses, as they appear to contain two reproductive and a vegetative nuclei. At this stage, cell death occurs, as shown by the swelling and fragmentation of the nuclei. At later stages, the pollen grains are totally empty and do not contain DNA. Interestingly, in wild-type plants, the expression of ATXR5 is maximal in pollen grains, according to Genevestigator data. The overexpression of ATXR5 may therefore specifically affect pollen grains, because it plays a major role in this cell type or because it is especially abundant in these cells. As ATXR5 seems to physiologically accumulate in developing pollen, it is puzzling that its overexpression should result in pollen degeneration. However, overexpression of positive regulators of the cell cycle such as CDT1 has been shown to induce cell death in specific cell types (CITATION). ATXR5 may therefore function to promote the proliferation of microspore mother cells, or pollinic mitosis. [[FIGURE]] Expression of ATXR5 is not restricted to developing pollen, but can be detected in all plant organs. The protein is therefore likely to take part in various aspects of plant physiology. To investigate the function of ATXR6, Arabidopsis plants were transformed with a construct allowing expression of an ATXR6–GFP fusion under the control of a 35S promoter. Although 30 BASTA-resistant plants could be obtained, GFP could never be observed in the plants, suggesting that strong overexpression of the construct was lethal. We therefore analysed the phenotype of plants overexpressing ATXR6 under the control of its own promoter (ATXR6OE). Amongst 50 independent T1 lines, about 25% were sterile with short siliques containing one to two seeds (see Figure S6). Northern blot analysis allowed us to check that these plants efficiently expressed the construct (see Figure S5). Because we used ATXR6’s own promoter, compensatory mechanisms may be at work that would maintain a constant overall mRNA level for ATXR6. To make sure that the analysed plants actually overexpressed ATXR6, RT-PCR analysis was performed using ATXR6-specific primers; this allowed us to check that expression of our construct did result in overexpression of the gene (Figure 8). Lines 4, 12 and 13 were used for further characterization. When sterile plants were pollinated with wild-type pollen, all the crosses resulted in the formation of normal siliques, demonstrating that ATXR6 is female-fertile. Nevertheless, the cause of the male sterility was different from what was observed in ATXR5OE: no pollen could be observed on the stigma of mature flowers in ATXR6OE (see Figure S6). The pollen was viable as seeds could be obtained by pollinating plants with pollen extracted from their own anthers. Even at late stages, the pollen grains remained in the anthers, suggesting that the sterility of ATXR6OE is due to an impairment of anther dehiscence. To investigate the cause of this alteration of anther maturation, anthers of the wild type and ATXR6OE were observed under ultraviolet illumination. Wild-type anthers displayed the characteristic net-like autofluorescence that indicates the presence of lignified secondary walls (CITATION, Figure 9a). This autofluorescence was dramatically reduced in ATXR6OE (Figure 9b). Microscopic observation of flower sections was therefore performed. In the wild type, endothecium is a cell type crucial to dehiscence. The cell wall of these cells is thickened by fibrous deposition (Figure 9g, i). When the stomium cells have degenerated, thereby opening the anther, some endothecium cells also die, but their cell wall remains. When anthers dehydrate, the endothecium shrinks unevenly because of its thick cell wall, and pulls both sides of the anther apart, thereby releasing pollen grains (CITATION). In ATXR6OE, the layer of cells was totally absent or drastically reduced (Figure 9h, j). The stomium degenerated properly, but as the endothecium was absent pollen grains remained in the anther. At younger stages, endothecium was clearly observed in ATXR6OE, showing that this phenotype was not due to the absence of this cell layer but to its disappearance and incorrect differentiation during anther development (Figure 9d, f). It was not clear, however, whether differentiation failed to occur or cells entered programmed cell death (PCD) prematurely. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are known to play a role in PCD, and recently CITATION have shown that BY-2 cells undergoing PCD produce O. Anthers of the wild type and ATXR6 were therefore coloured with NBT, a molecule that allows the detection of O. In the wild type, O production was high in all anther tissues at the tetrad stage, and became restricted to a region near the connective once pollen grains were mature (Figure 9k, m). By contrast, anthers of ATXR6OE were never stained by NBT (Figure 9l, n). This result suggests that PCD is not enhanced in ATXR6OE. As endothecium is present in young anthers of ATXR6OE, their phenotype is not due to a missed cell division; overexpression of ATXR6 rather seems to interfere with cell differentiation. One possible explanation would be that ATXR6 is a positive regulator of cell division, and that its overexpression maintains endothecium cells in an undifferentiated state. CITATION have shown that PCD is an important aspect of cell differentiation during anther development and affects endothecium, although the cells are still alive when anthers dehisce. An inhibition of cell differentiation could thus also account for the reduced ROS production in ATXR6OE. As the cell wall of endothecium cells fails to thicken, the dehydration of the anther and subsequent cell death would result in the complete disappearance of this cell layer. Overexpression of several cell-cycle genes involved in the positive regulation of the G1–S transition (namely AtCDT1a, AtMCM3, and AtCDC6) results in the same phenotype (unpublished results). This observation strongly supports the hypothesis that ATXR6 may also be a positive regulator of the G1–S transition. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] ATXR6 overexpression affects only a very defined cell type. This is in sharp contrast with its ubiquitous expression pattern, its high expression level in dividing cells and its ability to bind AtPCNA that has very general functions. The notable effect on endothecium in no way precludes a more general function of ATXR6 at the level of cell-cycle progression.
!~MM~! Oligonucleotides ATXR5 pro (5′-CGGATCCCATGGCCACATGGAACGCATCC-3′) and ATXR5 ter (5′-GGAATTCCAGAGGAAGTGATGAGTAGGATACTC-3′) were used for RT-PCR cloning of the coding region of ATXR5 using Pfx DNA polymerase (Invitrogen, Cergy-Pontoise, France). The cDNA was sequenced and cloned between the BamHI and EcoRI sites of the pEnt2B vector. Fusion with GFP was achieved by recombination using the Gateway system (Invitrogen). The destination vector was a modified pGreen vector (CITATION). Constructs for the yeast two-hybrid assays were obtained by cloning the ATXR5 coding sequence lacking its chloroplast-targeting peptide (ATXR5ΔT.P.) between the BamHI and SalI sites of the pGAD424 and pGBT9 vectors (Clontech, Mountain View, CA, USA), using the ATXR5pro2 (5′-CAGGATCCGGATGGCGAAATCT-3′) and ATXR5ter2 (5′-GTGTCGACCCAGGAAGTGATG-3′) primers. In order to overexpress the full-length cDNA under the control of a 35S promoter ATXR5pro and ATXR5ter2 were used to clone ATXR5 between the BamHI and SalI sites of pCW162 vector (a modified pPZP111 vector; CITATION). This fragment and ATXR5ΔT.P. were both cloned between the BamHI and SalI sites of pUC-SPYCE (CITATION) for BiFC experiments. A genomic fragment from 829 bp upstream of the initiation codon to the stop codon was cloned between the HindIII and SalI sites of a modified pCW162 containing GFP (CITATION), to overexpress ATXR6 under the control of its own promoter, using the ATXR6pro (5′-AAGCTTCACCACACGTGATCCAAACAC-3′) and ATXR6ter (5′-ACCTCGAGTACAAAATGTTCAGTTGGAT-3′) primers. For BiFC experiments, the ATXR6 ORF was cloned between the BamHI and SalI sites of pUC-SPYCE (CITATION) using the ATXR6 pro2 (5′-GAGGATCCGAATGGTGGCTGTGAGGCGAAGG-3′) and ATXR6 ter primers. Full-length cDNAs for AtPCNA1 (At1g07370) and AtPCNA2 (At2g29570) were cloned between the BamHI and SalI or BamHI and KpnI sites of pUC-SPYNE (CITATION), respectively. The full-length AtE2Fa cDNA was obtained as described in CITATION and cloned in a pBIN19 derivative under the control of the CaMV35S promoter and introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (HBA105). The AtE2Fb cDNA was inserted between the BamHI and XhoI sites of the pGusNpt/FF19 binary vector. The construct was introduced into A. tumefaciens (GV301/pMP90). Three millilitres of cell suspension was pelleted, and RNA extraction was performed as described previously (CITATION). First-strand cDNA was synthesized from 5 μg total RNA, using Super-Script II (Invitrogen) following the manufacturer's instructions. Hybridizations were performed at 62°C in the buffer described in CITATION. The probes for Cyclin B1;1 (At4g37490) and Histone H4 (At1g07820) consist of the full-length cDNAs. For RT-PCR, the following primers were used. AtActin pro: 5′-CTAAGCTCTCAAGATCAAAGGCTTA-3′, AtActin ter: 5′-TAAACATTGCAAAGAGTTTCAAGGT-3′, ATXR5 pro: 5′-GATGGCCACATGGAACGCATCC-3′, ATXR5 ter: 5′-CAGAGGAAGTGATGAGTAGG-3′, ATXR6 pro: 5′-CCGGATTAAAGCGGTCTCCAG-3′, ATXR6 ter: 5′-CATTGCGAAGGATCAGAGGC-3′, Histone H4 pro: 5′-CCAAGCCTGCGATCCGAAGATTGGC-3′, Histone H4 ter: 5′-CGCTACCGCAAACTGAACGCCAAACCC-3′, Cyclin B1 pro: 5′-GGAAGCAACAAGAAGAAGGGA-3′, Cyclin B1 ter: 5′-AGGGATCAAAGCCACAGCG-3′. The RT-PCR were hybridized with specific probes, and the signal was quantified using the Quantity One 1D analysis software, and normalized using actin as a constitutive control. pGreen encoding ATXR5-GFP was introduced into A. tumefaciens (AGL-1). Arabidopsis thaliana plants, ecotype Wassilewkjia (Ws) were transformed as described previously (CITATION). The seeds from the T1 generation were selected on sand by watering them with a BASTA solution (ammonium glufosinate, 625 μl in 10 l). Resistant plantlets were transferred to soil in the greenhouse after 2 weeks’ selection under short-day conditions, and then under long-day conditions. The pCW162 constructs were transformed into Arabidopsis via A. tumefaciens (EHA105), seeds from the T1 and T2 generations were selected on 0.5 × MS medium containing kanamycin (50 μg ml−1), and were transferred to soil in the greenhouse after 2 weeks. Arabidopsis cell lines T87 (CITATION) and Landsberg (CITATION) were maintained at 23°C under dim light conditions in B5 Gamborg's medium (Duchefa, Roubaix, France), pH 5.8 supplemented with 30 g l−1 sucrose and 1 μm NAA. Suspension cells were subcultured weekly, transferring 5 ml into 100 ml of fresh medium. Cell synchronization was performed on both cell lines. Landsberg cells were synchronized as described in CITATION. To synchronize T87 cells, 10 ml of a 1-week-old Arabidopsis cell suspension was diluted in 30 ml of fresh medium, and incubated for 20 h with aphidicolin to the final concentration of 20 μg ml−1. Cells were then washed in fresh medium, and samples were prepared every 2 h. Anthers from the wild-type and ATXR6OE were harvested at various stages and vacuum infiltrated with a NitroBlue tetrazolium (NBT) solution (10 mm phosphate buffer, 0.5 mg ml−1 NBT) for 10 min. Samples were kept in the dark for 1 h at room temperature and dehydrated in increasing amounts of ethanol (70%, 80% and finally 90% for 12 h). Anthers were than incubated in chloralhydrate as described previously (CITATION). To ensure that the obtained coloration was specific to O, control samples were treated as described above, after incubation in a superoxide dismutase (SOD) solution (10 U ml−1, 10 mm MgCl2). This enzyme transforms O in H2O2. No coloration was observed after SOD treatment. Alexander staining, transverse sections of anthers and DAPI staining of developing pollen grains were performed as described in CITATION. Various organs of the transgenic plants were observed using a confocal microscope (Leica SP2). To observe GFP, excitation was at 488 nm, and the spectral detector was set between 510 and 540 nm. Protoplasts were transformed for BiFC assays as described in CITATION. To observe YFP, excitation was at 514 nm, and the spectral detector was set between 520 and 550 nm. Spectral analysis confirmed an emission typical of YFP. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays were performed using nuclei extracted from suspension-cultured Arabidopsis T87 cells. Nuclei, extracted as previously described (CITATION), were treated with 1% formaldehyde at 22°C for 10 min and the cross-linking was stopped by the addition of 0.125 m glycine. Fixed nuclei were resuspended in SDS buffer (50 mm Tris–HCl pH 8.0, 10 mm EDTA and 1% SDS) and sonicated to shear DNA into fragments of 600–1000 bp. Sonicated chromatin samples were pre-incubated overnight with 20 μl of pre-immune serum at 4°C with gentle mixing, transferred to a new tube with 20 μl of protein A–Sepharose (15 mm Tris–HCl pH 8.0, 150 mm NaCl, 1 mm EDTA, Triton X-100 1%) and incubated with gentle mixing for 2 h at 4°C. Samples were centrifuged at 16 000 g for 2 min at 4°C. The supernatant was specifically immunoprecipitated with 20 μl of anti-DcE2F serum for 2 h at 4°C with gentle mixing. Immunocomplexes were recovered using 20 μl protein A–Sepharose (50% slurry) for 2 h at room temperature, washed and eluted from the beads. The immunoprecipitated chromatin was incubated for 6 h at 65°C with two volumes of ethanol. The resulting precipitate was incubated with proteinase K (18.5 mg ml−1) for 2 h at 42°C and extracted with phenol/chloroform. Upon ethanol precipitation, DNA was resuspended in 20 μl of water and 3 μl was used for PCR analysis using the following primers adjacent to promoter E2F cis-elements: G5 (5′-GCAAAATCAATTTAGTTGAA-3′) and G3 (5′-CAGAGAAAGAGAGAGAGTGA-3′) for ATXR6. The primers used for the negative (AtGDH) and positive (AtMCM3 and AtPCNA1) controls were the same as in CITATION. Yeast two hybrid assays were performed as described previously (CITATION). In these experiments, the capacity of the yeast strain PJ69 to grow in the absence of histidine and in the presence of 3-amino-triazole (3AT) was used as a marker for the interaction between proteins. Double transformants were grown overnight, and the OD of the culture was adjusted to 1. Ten microlitres of serial dilutions was spotted on various culture media. Accession numbers: Sequence data from this article has been deposited with the EMBL/GeneBank data libraries under the accession number DQ074689 (ATXR5 full-length open reading frame, including the second exon).
