!~ABS~! RING (really interesting new gene) zinc-finger proteins have important regulatory roles in the development of a variety of organisms. The XERICO gene encodes a small protein (162 amino acids) with an N-terminal trans-membrane domain and a RING-H2 zinc-finger motif located at the C-terminus. In silico gene-expression analysis indicated that XERICO is induced by salt and osmotic stress. Compared with wild-type (WT) Arabidopsis plants, transgenic plants overexpressing XERICO (35S::XERICO) exhibited hypersensitivity to salt and osmotic stress and exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) during germination and early seedling growth. When subjected to a drought treatment, transcriptional upregulation of a key ABA-biosynthesis gene, AtNCED3, was much faster and stronger in 35S::XERICO plants compared with WT plants. Further, upregulation of XERICO substantially increased cellular ABA levels. The adult 35S::XERICO plants, in contrast to early seedling growth, showed a marked increase in their tolerance to drought stress. Yeast two-hybrid screening indicated that XERICO interacts with an E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (AtUBC8) and ASK1-interacting F-box protein (AtTLP9), which is involved in the ABA-signaling pathway. Affymetrix GeneChip array analysis showed that the expressions of many of the genes involved in the biosynthesis of plant hormones (e.g. ethylene, brassinosteroid, gibberellic acid) were significantly changed in the 35S::XERICO plants. These results suggest that the homeostasis of various plant hormones might be altered in 35S::XERICO plants, possibly by overaccumulation of ABA.
!~RES~! XERICO (At2g04240) is a single-copy gene in the Arabidopsis genome and encodes a small protein (162 amino acids) with an N-terminal transmembrane (TM) domain, a RING-H2 zinc-finger motif located at the C-terminus, and a serine-rich domain in the middle (Figure 1a). XERICO is expressed ubiquitously in the plant, but its transcript is accumulated more in actively growing tissues (Figure 1b). Taking advantage of publicly available Affymetrix GeneChip array data (AtGenExpress, http://web.uni-frankfurt.de/fb15/botanik/mcb/AFGN/atgenex.htm), transcriptional regulations of XERICO were examined with regard to various aspects of plant growth and development, including plant hormonal and environmental stress responses. Among these, we noticed that salt and osmotic stress considerably induced expression of XERICO, reaching the highest level (up to 5.8-fold increase compared with control) at 6 h (Figure 1c), which was validated by Northern blot analysis (Figure 1d). These results suggest that XERICO may function in salt and osmotic stress responses. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the functional significance of XERICO, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing the gene (35S::XERICO). Fifteen of 18 overexpression transgenic lines showed similar phenotypes, such as short hypocotyl; round-shaped rosette leaves; and ABA hypersensitivities of early seedling growth. Of these 15 lines, we chose three T3 homozygous lines (SS1-6, SS6-6 and SS8-3) based on their expression levels and used these for further phenotypic characterizations (Figure 2a). [[FIGURE]] Early seedling growth of all of the 35S::XERICO plants tested was hypersensitive to both salt and osmotic stresses, compared with wild-type (WT) plants (Figure 2b). To address whether this sensitivity of the 35S::XERICO plants comes from defects in potassium uptake for osmoregulation, we examined effects of both treatment with LiCl, an inhibitor of potassium uptake, and a low potassium environment. We found no significant differences in seedling growth between WT and 35S::XERICO plants with these treatments (Figure 3c). These results indicate that sensitivity to salt and osmotic stress of 35S::XERICO plants in early seedling growth is not likely to be due to a defect in potassium uptake. [[FIGURE]] As hypersensitivity to salt or osmotic stress was the most prominent phenotype of all three independent T3 homozygous lines of 35S::XERICO plants, we investigated further the functional relationship of the gene with ABA, a plant stress hormone involved in salt and drought stress adaptation. Even at the submicromolar concentration of exogenous ABA (0.1 μm), the growth of all three independent lines of 35S::XERICO plants were arrested immediately after germination compared with WT plants (Figure 3a). Although 35S::XERICO plants germinated slightly later than wild type, even in the absence of exogenous ABA (Figure 3c), germination was delayed further. At 0.1 μm ABA, only 13% of 35S::XERICO plants were germinated 1.5 days after sowing, while 43% of WT seeds germinated. In the presence of 1.0 μm ABA, more than 20% of 35S::XERICO plants failed to germinate, even after prolonged incubation (Figure 3c). Germination was scored by the emergence of a radicle (>1 mm). We also counted cotyledon opening of seedlings at 5 days after sowing. At 1 μm ABA, 35S::XERICO plants could not develop a cotyledon at all, while approximately 80% of WT plants had opened cotyledons (Figure 3d). For evaluation of the loss-of-function phenotypes of this gene, we produced anti-sense transgenic plants of XERICO. However, we could not find any significant phenotypic changes (data not shown). As 35S::XERICO plants appeared to show a disturbance in ABA homeostasis, we investigated the transcriptional regulation of genes involved in the control of endogenous ABA levels. AtNCED3 (9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase; At3g14440) encodes a key enzyme in ABA biosynthesis (CITATION), while AtCYP707A2 (ABA 8′-hydroxylase; At2g29090) was recently identified as a key enzyme in the oxidative catabolism of ABA (CITATION; CITATION). Transcripts of AtNCED3 were clearly increased by ABA treatment in both WT and 35S::XERICO plants (Figure 4a). However, in the 35S::XERICO plants ABA induction of AtNCED3 was much stronger than in WT plants. The expression of AtNCED3 was peaked at 6 h after ABA treatment, then sustained up to 24 h. However, the induction of AtNCED3 was decreased after the peak at 3 h in WT plants. Accordingly, AtCYP707A2 induction kinetics was changed in both WT and 35S::XERICO plants, probably to control the endogenous ABA level. The expression of AtCYP707A2 was sustained up to 24 h in the 35S::XERICO plants (Figure 4a). [[FIGURE]] To validate this experiment, we tested the expression of an ABA- and desiccation-inducible gene (RD29a/COR78/LTI78; At5g52310) (CITATION) as a positive control. The result clearly showed that induction of RD29a was strongly enhanced in 35S::XERICO plants compared with WT plants when treated with exogenous ABA (Figure 4a). It should be noted that RD29a gene expression was much stronger in 35S::XERICO plants without ABA treatment. Drought treatment, which induces endogenous ABA, showed a clearer distinction between WT and mutant plants. Transcriptional upregulation of AtNCED3 by drought treatment was much faster and stronger in 35S::XERICO plants than in WT plants (Figure 4b). Interestingly, substantial induction of AtCYP707A2 appeared only 1 h after drought treatment in 35S::XERICO plants, suggesting more rapid synthesis and accumulation of endogenous ABA in the 35S::XERICO plants (Figure 4b). These results suggest that ABA may regulate the expression of the ABA-biosynthetic gene as well as the catabolic gene, and the upregulation of XERICO may alter this regulation. The high-level expressions of ABA-biosynthetic and ABA-responsive genes in 35S::XERICO plants, even in the absence of ABA or drought treatment, suggested that the transgenic plant might have elevated endogenous ABA. To test this hypothesis, we measured endogenous ABA content with or without drought treatment by reverse-phase HPLC. Results from three independent experiments showed that levels of ABA in 35S::XERICO plants (SS1-6, SS6-6, SS8-3) were more than 10-fold higher than in the WT plants when grown on soil for 14 days without drought treatment (Figure 5). A 6-h drought treatment dramatically increased endogenous ABA content in the 35S::XERICO plants, which is up to threefold higher than the ABA increase in WT plants (Figure 5). These data clearly demonstrate that upregulation of the XERICO gene increases cellular ABA levels. [[FIGURE]] Increased ABA levels resulted in drought-stress tolerance in Nicotiana plumbaginifolia (CITATION). To evaluate the effects of XERICO upregulation on drought-stress tolerance, we discontinued watering of 30-day-old WT and 35S::XERICO plants growing on soil in a 10-cm-diameter pot. Afterwards the plants were kept in a growth room maintained at low humidity. In contrast to early seedling growth, adult 35S::XERICO plants showed striking drought-stress tolerance when compared with WT plants. Figure 6(a) shows a representative picture of each treatment after 10 days without watering. To reduce experimental variations, we repeated the drought tolerance treatment with WT and 35S::XERICO plants planted side-by-side in one pot (Figure 6b). The results showed that the enhanced drought tolerance of 35S::XERICO plants was successfully reproduced. Interestingly, we found that water retention after 10 days without watering was slightly higher in pots with 35S::XERICO plants than in those with WT plants, suggesting that the enhanced drought tolerance of 35S::XERICO plants may come from decreased water loss by transpiration. Therefore we measured the fresh weights (FW) of detached leaves over different periods as an indicator of transpirational water loss. The most rapid loss of water occurred during the first 30 min after detachment (Figure 6c), which is consistent with the previous report by CITATION. The leaves from WT plants lost about 15% of their FW in 1 h, while leaves from 35S::XERICO plants had a much reduced water loss (approximately 7.5%) (Figure 6c). These data indicate that the increase in cellular ABA levels resulted in the closure of stomata of 35S::XERICO plant leaves, and therefore a decrease in water loss by transpiration. This was confirmed by observing the stomata of WT and 35S::XERICO plants. We found that the most stomata of 35S::XERICO plants were closed during daytime, when those of WT plants were open. [[FIGURE]] The RING domain is known to play a role in protein–protein interaction. Using yeast two-hybrid screening, we identified AtTLP9 and AtUBC8 as potential interacting partners of XERICO. Their interactions in yeast were also confirmed in vivo under high-stringency conditions (Figure 7). AtTLP9 (At3g06380) is a member of the Arabidopsis TUBBY-like proteins, having an N-terminal F-box domain, which interacts with ASK1 (Arabidopsis Skp1-like 1; CITATION). Knockout mutants of AtTLP9 showed ABA-insensitive phenotypes, whereas transgenic plants overexpressing AtTLP9 were hypersensitive to ABA, suggesting that AtTLP9 may participate in the ABA signaling pathway (CITATION). AtUBC8 is a member of the Arabidopsis ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, E2. Taken together, it is possible that ubiquitin/proteasome pathway-mediated substrate-specific degradation may play a role in XERICO functioning. [[FIGURE]] To find further functional clues to XERICO, we performed whole-transcriptome profiling of WT and 35S::XERICO plants that had been grown for 20 days on soil. We used only aerial parts of the plants for sampling because we could not find any significant phenotypic changes in root development. Gene expression data were obtained from two independent experiments conducted with the Arabidopsis ATH1 Genome Array (Affymetrix, Santa Clara, CA, USA). There were a total of 18 upregulated and 44 downregulated genes in the 35S::XERICO plants compared with the WT plants using twofold change threshold (Table 1). Interestingly, the plant hormone metabolism/response-related genes comprise a significant portion of the differentially expressed genes. For example, ABA 8′- hydroxylases was upregulated up to fourfold in the 35S::XERICO plants. The expression of ACS11, one of the 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate synthases known as a rate-limiting enzyme in ethylene biosynthesis, was drastically upregulated (up to 32-fold) in 35S::XERICO plants. In addition, the expression of BL 26-hydroxylase, which inactivates BR hormones (CITATION), was downregulated; whereas the BR biosynthesis enzyme ROT3 (CYP90C1; CITATION) was upregulated in 35S::XERICO plants. Also, GA4 (gibberellin 3 beta-hydroxylase), which converts the inactive form of gibberellic acid to an active form (CITATION), was downregulated in the 35S::XERICO plants. These results suggest that the homeostasis of various plant hormones might be altered in 35S::XERICO plants, possibly by overaccumulation of ABA. aIdentification number of Affymetrix Arabidopsis GeneChip (ATH1). bArabidopsis Gene Index number. cWT, wild-type plants. dSI, average signal intensity of both replicates. eMT, 35S::XERICO plants (SS8-3 line). fChange P value for SI of MT over SI of WT was calculated from both replicates using microarray suite 5.0. Values close to 0.0 indicate likelihood for an increase (I), whereas values close to 1.0 indicate likelihood for a decrease (D). gChange calling calculated using microarray suite 5.0; I, increase, D, decrease. hFold-changes calculated from signal log ratio of MT over WT using microarray suite 5.0. Averaged fold-change for both replicate experiments is shown. ACC, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate; NADH, nicotineamide adenine dinucleotide. All GeneChip data with detailed statistical analysis are shown in.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col) was used as wild type for phenotypic assays of 35S::XERICO plants in all experiments. Unless noted otherwise, plants were grown under sterile conditions on Murashige and Skoog (MS) nutrient agar media containing 2% sucrose, or on soil in a growth chamber (16 h light/8 h dark) at 23°C, after stratification. To monitor hypocotyl elongation and root growth responses to salt and osmotic stress, a minimum of 20 seeds were sown on MS nutrient agar media containing various treatments, and plates were held in the vertical position for 7 days. To test the effects of ABA on germination and early seedling growth, seeds were grown horizontally. For abiotic stress treatments, WT seedlings were grown on MS nutrient agar media containing 2% sucrose for 10 days, then treated with the stresses indicated in Figure 1(d) for up to 24 h with no control. Samples were collected at the time indicated, frozen immediately in liquid N2, and stored at −80°C until use. All experiments were performed in triplicate and repeated at least three times. The full-length cDNA of XERICO (At2g04240) was amplified by PCR using primers 5′-TTTGGATCCGACAACATCATTTCTACCGACA-3′ (forward) and 5′-CCCTCTAGATAGCTGTACACAACAAACACACTC-3′ (reverse) designed to contain BamHI and XbaI sites, respectively. The resulting product was digested with BamHI and XbaI, and inserted between a 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) and a nopaline synthase terminator in the pCB302-3 binary vector, containing a bar gene encoding phosphinothricin acetyltransferase inside the T-DNA for selection of transformants (CITATION). The vector was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58, which was used to transform Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia by the floral-dip method as described by CITATION. Eighteen T3 progeny resulting from homozygous self-crosses were used for phenotypic characterizations. Total RNA was extracted using the Trizol reagent method (Gibco-BRL, Gaithersburg, MD, USA). For Northern blot analysis, 10 μg total RNA from each sample was denatured and separated using a 1% agarose–formaldehyde gel. RNA was transferred onto a Hybond-N+ membrane (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) by capillary action. Gene-specific probes were prepared by PCR and labeled with [α32P]-dCTP using a Prime-it II Random Primer Labeling kit (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA). Primers used in this analysis were as follows: XERICO (forward, 5′-TTGGAACATCACTTGCCCAT-3′ and reverse, 5′-TGTGTTCAAACAAGAGCTCCA-3′); AtNCED3 (forward, 5′-AATCATACTCAGCCGCCATT-3′ and reverse, 5′-TTTAGTTCCGTCCGGTGAGAA-3′); AtCYP707A2 (forward, 5′-TGCAAATCTCATCTTCATCGT-3′ and reverse, 5′-TGTCGAATGCTGAATTGCTC-3′); RD29a (forward, 5′-GTGGAGAAGATCTCTACCGAGAAGG-3′ and reverse, 5′-CATCAAAGACGTCAAACAAAACACA-3′); and Actin 8 (forward, 5′-ATGAAGATTAAGGTCGTGGCA-3′ and reverse, 5′-TCCGAGTTTGAAGAGGCTAC-3′). Hybridization was carried out using ULTRAhyb according to the manufacturer's instructions (Ambion, Austin, TX, USA), and a Kodak Biomax film (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA) was exposed to the blot. The Actin 8 gene or ethidium bromide-stained ribosomal RNA was used as a loading control. Drought stress was treated by the method of CITATION. In brief, aerial parts of Arabidopsis plants were harvested from 14-day-old seedlings, and the FW was reduced rapidly (<10 min) by 12–15%, using a hairdryer. The stressed samples were stored in a polyethylene bag in darkness at 23°C for 6 h. All samples were frozen immediately in liquid N2 and stored at −80°C until use. Material to be used for ABA determinations was lyophilized, and the dry weight measured. The procedure for extraction, purification and quantification of ABA was as described by CITATION with some modifications. The lyophilized samples were extracted and homogenized in 80% (v/v) aqueous acetone with a Polytron homogenizer (Brinkmann Instruments, Westbury, NY, USA). 1 m phosphate buffer (5 ml, pH 8.0) was added to the extract. After removal of the acetone on a rotary evaporator, lipids were removed by partitioning the aqueous concentrate twice with hexanes. The pH of the aqueous phase was adjusted to 2.5 with 6 n HCl and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The acidic fraction was collected and dried in a centrifugal vacuum concentrator (Jouan, Winchester, VA, USA) and subjected to reverse-phase HPLC (CITATION). Thirty-day-old WT and 35S::XERICO plants with approximately 10 leaves, grown in pots (10 × 10 × 10 cm), were kept in a growth room and maintained without further watering to evaluate their drought tolerance. For water-loss analysis, three fully expanded leaves from three WT and 35S::XERICO plants that had developed approximately 14 leaves were detached and left on a bench. The leaves were weighed at different times to determine the rate of water loss. Each experiment was carried out at least three times. Leaves were taken at 11:00 am (light turns on at 9:00 am) from 4-week-old soil-grown WT plants and 35S::XERICO plants. Immediately after harvest a commercial nail polish was applied on the lower epidermis. The epidermal strips prepared were observed under a Nikon Diaphot inverse microscope. Pictures were taken with a Sony MAVICA digital camera and used for measurement of stomatal apertures. The apertures of stomatal pores were measured using the ‘measure tool’ of Adobe photoshop 5.5, which calculates the distance between any two points. For total RNA isolation, WT Arabidopsis and 35S::XERICO plants were grown for 20 days on soil under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark). The plant samples (aerial parts) were pooled from several batches of plants to minimize variation in gene-expression patterns caused by subtle changes in environmental conditions, and harvested around 4:00 pm. For reproducibility, all experiments were duplicated. All methods for the preparation of cRNA from mRNA, as well as the subsequent steps leading to hybridization and scanning of the ATH1 GeneChip arrays, were performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The average difference and expression call for each of the duplicated samples was computed using microarray suite 5.0 (Affymetrix) with default parameters. The resulting hybridization intensity values (signal intensity) reflect the abundance of a given mRNA species relative to the total mRNA population, and were used to calculate the fold-changes of individual gene expressions between 35S::XERICO and WT plants. Expression data from this experiment are shown in. Two-hybrid screening was performed using the BD Matchmaker Library construction and screening kit (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA); pGADT7 was used for GAL4 AD and pGBKT7 was used for GAL4 DNA-BD. The yeast strain AH109 (leu−, trp−, Ade−, his−), with chromosomally integrated reporter genes lacZ and HIS under the control of the GAL1 promoter activated by the GAL4 transcription factor, was used to host all constructs. Truncated XERICO cDNA without TM domain was amplified by PCR using primers 5′-GGGGGAATTCGAGTCATTTGATTTCCGGGT-3′ (forward) and 5′-GGGGCTGCAGTCACCAAACATTAGAAGAAAGC-3′ (reverse) designed to contain EcoRI and PstI sites, respectively. The amplified PCR product was digested with EcoRI and PstI, subcloned into pGBKT7 as a fusion to the DNA-binding domain of GAL4, and verified by sequencing. The pGBKT7/XERICO vector was used as a bait to screen an A. thaliana cDNA library in pGADT7 as a fusion to the activation domain of GAL4. Transformation of AH109 was performed using the Matchmaker Library Protocol (Clontech). Positive clones were isolated from high-stringency screening (−His, −Ade, −Leu, −Trp) and sequenced. Yeast two-hybrid interactions were further confirmed in vivo by vector swap.
