!~ABS~! Iron acquisition in Arabidopsis depends mainly on AtIRT1, a Fe2+ transporter in the plasma membrane of root cells. However, substrate specificity of AtIRT1 is low, leading to an excess accumulation of other transition metals in iron-deficient plants. In the present study we describe AtIREG2 as a nickel transporter at the vacuolar membrane that counterbalances the low substrate specificity of AtIRT1 and possibly other iron transport systems in iron-deficient root cells. AtIREG2 is co-regulated with AtIRT1 by the transcription factor FRU/FIT1, encodes a membrane protein, which has 10 putative transmembrane domains and shares homology with vertebrate Fe2+ exporters. Heterologous expression of AtIREG2 in various yeast mutants, however, did not demonstrate an iron transport function. Instead, expression in wild-type and nickel-sensitive cot1 yeast cells conferred enhanced tolerance to elevated concentrations of nickel at acidic pH. A role in vacuolar substrate transport was further supported by localization of AtIREG2-GFP fusion proteins to the tonoplast in Arabidopsis suspension cells and root cells of intact plants. Transgenic plants overexpressing AtIREG2 showed an increased tolerance to elevated concentrations of nickel, whereas T-DNA insertion lines lacking AtIREG2 expression were more sensitive to nickel, particularly under iron deficiency, and accumulated less nickel in roots. We therefore propose a role of AtIREG2 in vacuolar loading of nickel under iron deficiency and thus identify it as a novel component in the iron deficiency stress response. 
!~RES~! AtIREG2 Encodes an Iron-regulated Membrane Protein Related to Vertebrate Fe2+ Exporters—A phylogenetic analysis of eukaryote and prokaryote sequences with the highest similarity to Arabidopsis IREG2 clearly pointed to a separation of a plant cluster from an animal cluster, with particular high sequence conservation among mammalian sequences. AtIREG1 (At2g38460) and AtIREG2, which share 84.6% sequence similarity, fell into a first and AtIREG3 (At5g26820) into a second clade, both of these clades harboring an additional sequence from rice (Fig. 1A).  To verify an iron-dependent regulation of AtIREG2, a Northern analysis was conducted with hydroponically grown Arabidopsis plants cultured under different iron regimes. Transcript levels of AtIREG2 in roots were up-regulated under iron deficiency and down-regulated after resupply of iron (Fig. 1B), similar to the Fe2+ transporter gene AtIRT1 (CITATION).  AtIREG2 Increases Nickel Tolerance in Yeast—Because of its homology with vertebrate iron exporters, we assumed a iron export function and tested in heterologous systems whether AtIREG2 might alleviate iron toxicity in iron-sensitive yeast strains. Neither the AFT1up strain, which exhibits a constitutive overexpression of genes involved in iron acquisition (CITATION), nor ccc1, a mutant suffering from a lower capacity to transport iron into the vacuole, showed different growth on medium supplemented with increasing concentrations of iron when expressing AtIREG2 (data not shown). To test an iron import function AtIREG2 was expressed in the iron uptake-defective yeast mutant fet3fet4 (CITATION) for a growth complementation test on 4-10 μm Fe(III). Growth of AtIREG2 transformants, however, did not differ significantly from that of control transformants (data not shown).    [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] In general, plant iron transporters such as AtIRT1 or AtNRAMPs discriminate poorly between iron, manganese, zinc, cobalt, and cadmium (CITATION, CITATION). We therefore decided to screen for a heavy metal transport function of AtIREG2 employing yeast mutants with increased heavy metal sensitivities, like smf1, vma1, and cot1 at increasing concentrations of different transition metals (CITATION-CITATION). Expression of AtIREG2 in a cot1 deletion strain reversed its nickel sensitivity (Fig. 2). Remarkably, AtIREG2-mediated tolerance to nickel was only observed at pH 5, but could not be observed at pH 6 or higher. This pH-dependent contribution of AtIREG2 to nickel tolerance pointed to a putative function of AtIREG2 in proton-dependent heavy metal export from the cytoplasm into the vacuole.  Intracellular Localization of AtIREG2 in Planta—To examine the intracellular localization of AtIREG2 in planta, a GFP cDNA was fused to the 3′-end of AtIREG2 and the fusion construct was placed under control of a 35S promoter for transient expression in Arabidopsis protoplasts derived from a suspension cell culture. As observed by confocal laser scanning microscopy, AtIREG2-dependent green fluorescence appeared as ring-shaped structures (Fig. 3A). A comparison to the transmission view and merging both images allowed identification of these globular compartments as vacuoles. Even in fully differentiated cells with large vacuoles, a small cytoplasmic region including organellar structures separated the AtIREG2-dependent fluorescence from the plasma membrane, clearly indicating tonoplast localization (Fig. 3A). In contrast, fluorescence derived from GFP alone localized to the cytoplasm and to the nucleus. In an independent approach, transgenic Arabidopsis lines expressing an AtIREG2-GFP construct under control of a 1.8-kb fragment of the endogenous AtIREG2 promoter were analyzed (Fig. 3B). In root cortex cells, green fluorescence derived from AtIREG2-GFP was localized internal of red fluorescence derived from the lipophilic dye FM4-64, which labels the plasma membrane after short term incubation (CITATION). These observations indicated that AtIREG2 is targeted to vacuolar membranes and suggested a role of AtIREG2 in substrate transport across the tonoplast.    [[FIGURE]] Overexpression of AtIREG2 Results in Enhanced Nickel Tolerance—Based on the enhanced tolerance to nickel of yeast cells transformed with AtIREG2, we investigated whether overexpression of AtIREG2 also increases tolerance to elevated concentrations of this metal in planta. Transgenic plants expressing AtIREG2 under control of the constitutive 35S promoter were generated and four independent homozygous lines were examined in the T2 generation. RNA gel blot analysis using plants grown under iron-sufficient conditions showed that AtIREG2 was highly expressed in roots of the lines 1, 4, and 10, while mRNA levels in line 7 were only slightly increased relative to the wild-type expression level (Fig. 4A). When seeds were germinated and grown for 12 days on agar plates supplemented with 100 or 200 μm nickel, wild-type seedlings experienced a severe loss of biomass (Fig. 4B). In contrast, the gain of fresh weight by the AtIREG2 overexpressor lines 1, 4, and 10 was unaffected even at 200 μm NiCl2. In agreement with its lower expression level of AtIREG2, line 7 showed an intermediate response with higher fresh weight than the wild type at 100 μm nickel but a similar reduction in fresh weight as wild-type plants at 200 μm nickel. This differential growth response was also reflected by visible signs of plant health. Wild-type plants developed chlorosis at 50 μm nickel and germinated poorly above 100 μm nickel, whereas lines 1, 4, and 10 developed cotyledons even up to 500 μm NiCl2 (supplemental Fig. S1A). To assess whether increased nickel tolerance was restricted to germination, non-stressed seedlings were subjected to different concentrations of nickel for 7 days. At 200 μm NiCl2, root growth was completely arrested in wild-type plants and in line 7, whereas root growth of the overexpressor lines 1, 4, and 10 was not impaired (supplemental Fig. S1B). A phenotypic analysis of the same lines on agar with elevated concentrations of cadmium, cobalt, manganese, zinc, or iron did not yield any significant differences related to the level of AtIREG2 gene expression (data not shown). Moreover, AtIREG2 gene expression levels in roots of wild-type plants were not increased after supply of 20 μm cobalt, cadmium, or nickel (supplemental Fig. S2). To assess the nickel accumulation, Arabidopsis lines were precultured on nutrient solution for 5.5 weeks and then continued to grow on nutrient solution supplemented with 30 μm nickel. After 5 days of nickel treatment, line 7 and wild-type plants started to show a slight growth depression, but nickel accumulation in roots of lines 1, 4, and 10 were approx. 40% higher (Fig. 4C), indicating that a higher nickel tolerance in transgenic lines was related to an enhanced capacity for nickel accumulation in roots.  AtIREG2 Plants Accumulate Less Nickel in Roots and Show an Increased Nickel Sensitivity under Iron Deficiency—Two lines were obtained from the SALK collection (SALK_074442 and SALK_127071) (CITATION) that carry T-DNA insertions in the AtIREG2 gene (Fig. 5A). In homozygous progenies from the T3 generation, verified by segregation and PCR analyses, iron deficiency induced expression of AtIREG2 was not detected (Fig. 5B), but plants did not exhibit any visible phenotypes in soil culture. We then grew plants hydroponically for 6 weeks before supplementing the nutrient solution with 10 μm nickel for 10 days. A subsequent analysis of transition metals in shoots yielded no significant differences in accumulation of any measured metal (data not shown), but in roots of both ireg2 insertion lines, nickel concentrations were only half of those of wild-type plants (Fig. 5C). All other metal concentrations in ireg2 roots were similar to wild-type plants. In contrast, overexpression of AtIREG2 led to a significantly higher accumulation in roots of nickel but also of manganese, copper, and zinc (line 10 in Fig. 5C).  To confirm that the observed phenotype is indeed caused by loss-of-function of AtIREG2, we retransformed ireg2-1 plants with an AtIREG2-promoter-AtIREG2-GFP construct resulting in high levels of AtIREG2-GFP mRNA (Fig. 6A) and grew homozygous plants from the T2 generation on nickel-supplied agar under different iron regimes. The ireg2-1 insertion lines grew similar to the wild type under iron-sufficient medium supplemented with up to 30 μm nickel (Fig. 6B), while greater than 30 μm nickel-supplied ireg2-1 plants produced significantly less biomass (data not shown) or root growth (Fig. 6C). Under irondeficient growth conditions, however, growth repression of the ireg2-1 insertion line was severe in as little as 20 μm nickel, emphasizing that nickel sensitivity increases with iron deficiency. In comparison, complemented ireg2-1 insertion lines (lines 12 and 19) were less sensitive to nickel and at high nickel supplies, the complemented lines were even less sensitive than the wild type. To exclude the possibility that higher nickel tolerance of iron-sufficient plants was caused by the presence of EDTA in the growth medium, wild-type Arabidopsis plants were precultured for 2-5 days under iron deficiency and then exposed to 20 μm 63Ni for 30 min in the absence of any chelator (supplemental Fig. S3A). Nickel uptake rates clearly increased with iron deficiency emphasizing that nickel uptake relates to the iron nutritional status of the plants. Consistent with its up-regulation under iron deficiency (Fig. 1B), a potential function of IRT1 in iron deficiency-induced nickel uptake was indicated by a higher nickel sensitivity of yeast cells ectopically expressing IRT1 (supplemental Fig. S3B).    [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plasmids, Transgenic Plants, and Yeast Growth—DNA manipulations were carried out using standard protocols (CITATION). The open reading frame (ORF) of AtIREG2 was amplified by PCR from an Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 cDNA library (kindly provided by Karin Schumacher, ZMBP, Tübingen, Germany) using the primers 5′-CGGGATCCATGGAGGAGGAAACAGAAAC-3′ and 5′-GGCGAGCTCTCATGAAGCAAAAAAGTTGTTC-3′. PCR products were A-tailed, cloned into the pGEM®-T Easy Vector (Promega, Madison, WI), and subcloned into the yeast expression vector pDR195 (CITATION) at the NotI site. The cDNA of AtIRT1 was subcloned from pFL61-AtIRT1 (kindly provided by C. Curie) into pDR195 at the NotI sites. For transient expression of an AtIREG2-GFP fusion protein in protoplasts, the AtIREG2 ORF without a stop codon was amplified using the primers 5′-GGATCCATGGAGGAGGAAACAGAAACTAGG-3′ and 5′-GGATCCTGAAGCAAAAAAGTTGTTCAAAGG-3. The PCR product was inserted into the pGEM®-T Easy Vector and subcloned at the BamHI sites into the plant transformation vector pCF203 (kindly provided by C. Frankhauser, ETH Zuerich) under control of a CaMV-35S promoter and fused at the 3′-end to a gene encoding GFP. For the generation of Arabidopsis plants overexpressing AtIREG2, a modified transformation vector based on pGreenII (CITATION) was used for insertion of the AtIREG2 ORF from pGEM-T into pGreen0229-35S between the CaMV-35S promoter and CaMV terminator sequences using the BamHI/PstI sites. The construction of a plant transformation vector for stable expression of a AtIREG2 promoter:AtIREG2-GFP fusion in Arabidopsis was based on the binary vector pTkan, which was derived from pPZP212 (CITATION).  To generate a new multiple cloning site, the oligonucleotides 5′-CTAGAGGGCCCGGGACGTCCGCGGAGATCTACGCGTGTCGACTCGAGATATCCAACTAGTTGGCTGCA-3′ and 5′-GCCAACTAGTTGGATATCTCGAGTCGACACGCGTAGATCTCCGCGGACGTCCCGGGCCCT-3′ were hybridized and cloned into pTkan at the XbaI/PstI restriction sites resulting in pTkan+. The AtIREG2-GFP fusion was excised from the vector CF203 with Acc65I and PstI. A blunt end was created at the Acc65I cutting site and subcloned into the PstI/EcoRV restriction sites of pTkan+. A 1794-bp AtIREG2 promoter fragment was amplified from genomic DNA with the primers 5′-TTCTGCAGTTCTTCTGACTACTTTGATTCTTTC-3′ and 5′-CCGCTCGAGGGCCGAAGCTCAGGGAGAG-3′. The resulting PCR product was A-tailed, cloned into pGEM-T Easy, digested with NotI and subcloned into the pTkan+-AtIREG-GFP construct at the Bsp120I restriction site resulting in the plasmid pTkan+-AtIREG2 promoter-AtIREG2-GFP.  The resulting binary plasmids were introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101:pMP90 and selected on 100 μg ml-1 rifampicin, 40 μg ml-1 gentamycin, and 100 μg ml-1 spectinomycin. Agrobacterium cells were pretransformed with pSoup to allow replication of the pGreen construct. A. thaliana Col-0 plants or tireg2-1 T-DNA insertion lines were then transformed via agrobacteria using the floral-dip method (CITATION) and transformants were selected on BASTA (pGreen) or 75 μg ml-1 kanamycin (pTkan+-AtIREG2 promoter-AtIREG2-GFP). The pTkan+-AtIREG2-promoter:AtIREG2-GFP construct was used for complementation of the ireg2-1 T-DNA insertion line (see below). Homozygous plants were identified in the T2 generation based on segregation analysis on 50 μg ml-1 kanamycin). Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion lines SALK_074442 (ireg2-1) and SALK_127071 (ireg2-2) were obtained from the stock of T-DNA insertion lines provided by SALK (CITATION). The lines were screened by PCR using AtIREG2 specific and left border T-DNA primers. To verify homozygosity in line ireg2-1, AtIREG2 forward primer 5′-TTTCCTCGACTTCGATTTGGT-3′ and AtIREG2 reverse primer 5′-CCATCGAGCAAGAAAATAGCC-3′, were used to amplify the wild-type AtIREG2 gene. To screen for the T-DNA insertion, PCR was performed with the reverse primer (see above) and the T-DNA left border primer LBb1 (5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAACT-3′). For line ireg2-2 the forward primer 5′-CGAAAAATTGAAAATCGAACTCAAA-3′ and the reverse primer 5′-TGATCAGACCTTGCACCCCAT-3′ were used as gene-specific primers. The presence of the T-DNA insertion in ireg2-1 was verified by PCR with the reverse primer and LBb1 (see above). The location of the T-DNA insertion in both lines was determined by sequencing of the PCR product.  Yeast cells were transformed by the LiAc method (CITATION) and transformants were selected on uracil-deficient medium containing 1% arginine as nitrogen source and the appropriate supplements. To support growth of the fet3fet4 mutant, solid YNB medium contained additionally 30 μm FeCl3, while the liquid YPD medium was acidified to pH 5.0 with HCl. For growth tests, saturated cultures of yeast transformants were spotted in 5-fold serial dilutions onto uracil-deficient YNB medium, containing 0.1% arginine, 3% glucose, 0.01% of each, histidine, leucine, methionine (when appropriate) that were supplemented with the respective metal as indicated.  Plant Cultivation, Growth Conditions, and Gene Expression Analysis—A. thaliana Col-0 was grown in hydroponic culture under short day conditions as described in Schaaf et al. (CITATION) for the iron deficiency experiment. Germination, preculture, growth conditions for the transition metal accumulation assay and Northern blot analysis of wild-type plants under heavy metal stress were conducted according to Loqué et al. (CITATION) using NH4NO3 as a nitrogen source in the nutrient solution. For Northern analysis, 20 μg of total root or shoot RNA were separated by gel electrophoresis and transferred to a Hybond-N+ membrane (Amersham Biosciences). cDNA fragments obtained by NotI restriction digests from pDR195-AtIREG2 and pFL61-AtIRT1 were used as probes.    [[FIGURE]] In plate growth tests on different micronutrient or heavy metal concentrations, seeds of wild-type and transgenic plants were germinated in long day conditions in a growth chamber on 0.5× Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (Duchefa, Haarlem, NL), 1% sucrose, solidified with 0.7% Difco agar (Becton Dickinson) and supplemented with metals at indicated concentrations. Plants were continued to grow on vertical plates for determination of root length. A 63Ni accumulation assay was conducted with 6-week-old wild-type plants, precultured under iron deficiency for 2-5 days. Plants were transferred to 20 μm 63NiSO4 for 30 min, and then roots were washed for 10 min with EDTA, pH 5.7. For 63Ni analysis plants were washed twice at 500 °C before and after wet digestion with 65% HNO3, resuspended in 2 ml of 1% HCl and analyzed by liquid scintillation counting.  For subcellular localization, Arabidopsis protoplasts were transformed as described previously (CITATION). Transformed protoplasts were analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (TCP-SP Leica, Bensheim, Germany). Localization experiments with ireg2-1 recomplemented lines (see above) were conducted with homozygous T2 plants using an inverted fluorescence microscope equipped with an ApoTome (Zeiss Axiovert 200 m, Jena, Germany). Plant roots were stained with 25 μm FM4-64 (Molecular Probes) for 5 min and shortly rinsed in ultra pure water before observation under the microscope. 
