!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis DNA ligase 1 gene (AtLIG1) is indispensable for cell viability. AtLIG1 expresses one major and two minor mRNA transcripts differing only in the length of the 5′ untranslated leader sequences preceding a common ORF. Control of AtLIG1 isoform production and intracellular targeting depends upon mechanisms controlling the choice of translation initiation site within the AtLIG1 ORF. Confocal laser scanning microscopy of green fluorescent protein-tagged AtLIG1 isoforms expressed in Arabidopsis revealed that translation of AtLIG1 mRNA transcripts from the first in-frame start codon produces an AtLIG1 isoform that is targeted exclusively to the mitochondria. Translation initiation from the second in-frame start codon produces an AtLIG1 isoform targeted only to the nucleus. There is no evidence for AtLIG1–GFP being targeted to chloroplasts. The mitochondrial AtLIG1 isoform possesses both an N-terminal mitochondrial-targeting signal and an internal bipartite nuclear localization signal (NLS) yet is targeted only to mitochondria, demonstrating a hierarchical dominance of the mitochondrial presequence over the NLS. The length of the 5′-UTR and more significantly the nucleotide context around alternative start codons in the AtLIG1 transcripts affect translation initiation to ensure a balanced synthesis of both nuclear and mitochondrial AtLIG1 isoforms, probably via a context-dependent leaky ribosome scanning mechanism.
!~RES~! A combination of RLM–RACE (RNA ligase-mediated rapid amplification of cDNA ends) and an RNase protection assay (RPA) (CITATION) was used to investigate AtLIG1 transcript patterns. RLM–RACE (CITATION; CITATION), an approach that detects only authentic capped 5′ ends of mRNAs, was used to identify potential transcription initiation sites in the AtLIG1 gene. Three bands were obtained after the 5′ RACE nested-PCR reaction (Figure 2a), with estimated sizes of 380, 350 and 330 base pairs. Cloning and sequencing of these PCR products allowed cap sites of AtLIG1 to be mapped to 73, 43 and 25 nt upstream of the first in-frame AUG start codon in the AtLIG1 gene (Figure 2b). No transcript start sites were mapped downstream of M1. [[FIGURE]] Whilst the RLM–RACE assay identifies authentic transcription start sites, it does not provide any quantitative measure of the efficiency at which the alternative sites are used. An RPA was performed to determine relative transcription start site usage. A 358 nt cDNA, representing 258 nt of the 5′-UTR and extending 100 nt into the first exon of the AtLIG1 gene, was used as a template for in vitro transcription to produce a labelled antisense RNA probe of 368 nt in length. Two distinct protected bands of 173 and 125 nt plus a third very faint band at 143 nt were seen when this probe was used in an RPA with an enriched polyadenylated RNA preparation isolated from above-ground structures of young Arabidopsis plants (Figure 3). These correspond to the cap sites detected by RLM–RACE at 73, 43 and 25 nt upstream of the first in-frame AUG start codon (M1) in AtLIG1. [[FIGURE]] Collectively, these findings demonstrate the presence of up to three AtLIG1 transcripts that differ only in the length of the 5′ untranslated region upstream of a common ORF containing three in-frame putative AUG translation initiation codons. From the RPA, it is possible to estimate the relative contribution of each of the three AtLIG1 transcripts to the AtLIG1 mRNA pool. The predominant AtLIG1 transcript comprises at least 80% of the AtLIG1 transcript pool, and this transcript has the shortest 5′ leader sequence (25 nt) preceding M1. A minor transcript with a 5′-UTR of 75 nt makes up approximately 15% of the AtLIG1 mRNA pool, while the third transcript, which has a 5′-UTR of 43 nt, is barely detectable and is estimated to represent < 5% of the AtLIG1 mRNA pool. Confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) was employed to investigate whether AtLIG1–GFP fusion proteins could be targeted in planta to the nucleus, mitochondria or chloroplast. The cDNA construct used represented the N-terminal 90 amino acid residues of AtLIG1 and contained each of the three putative AUG initiation codons M1, M2 and M3, and an N-terminal amphipathic region (Figure 1b) characteristic of mitochondrial-targeting sequences (CITATION). Significantly, this sequence might also possess dual targeting properties capable of targeting proteins to both mitochondria and chloroplasts through non-specific interaction with the organellar import machinery (CITATION; CITATION). The cDNA construct also contained a bipartite NLS (KK-X12-KRK) spanning codons 69–85, and was cloned in-frame with GFP and placed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. This construct (WT-AtLIG1–GFP) was then used to transform wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana. Direct imaging using CLSM of the AtLIG1–GFP isoform(s) synthesized from the WT-AtLIG1–GFP transcript in stably transformed Arabidopsis plants showed targeting of the GFP isoforms present in planta to the nucleus of all cell types imaged including leaves and stems (Figure 4) and root tip cells (Figure 5). However, there was no evidence of targeting of any WT-AtLIG1–GFP translated from this construct to chloroplasts in stem tissue or guard cells (Figure 4) or leaf epidermal cells (CITATION). These studies show that the single NLS contained within the N-terminal sequence of the WT-AtLIG1–GFP fusion protein is functional in planta and capable of interacting with the nuclear import machinery of the plant cell to direct the import of the fusion protein into the nucleus in all Arabidopsis tissues studied. In contrast, the N-terminal putative ambiguous targeting sequence in the WT-AtLIG1–GFP fusion protein appears to be incapable of interacting effectively with the chloroplast import machinery of the plant cell to target this fusion protein to chloroplasts in planta in any of these tissues. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] One mechanism by which variability can be introduced into the N-terminus of a polypeptide encoded by a single gene is alternative translation initiation from two or more in-frame translation initiation sites present in the transcript. The synthesis of protein isoforms either with or without N-terminal intracellular targeting signals can thus be controlled through choice of the start codons used in translation of the mRNA ORF. Whether such translational control mechanisms were operative in the synthesis of AtLIG1 isoforms from the AtLIG1 mRNA transcripts in Arabidopsis was investigated. cDNAs representing AtLIG1–GFP fusion constructs in which only one of the three possible putative translation initiation codons was present were produced by mutagenesis of WT-AtLIG1–GFP. Any AUG start codon in the wild-type construct upstream (5′) of the start codon to be retained in the mutagenized construct was mutated to a UAG stop codon, whilst any putative start codon downstream (3′) of the single start codon to be retained was mutated to a GCG (alanine) codon. The resulting constructs were termed M1-AtLIG1–GFP, M2-AtLIG1–GFP and M3-AtLIG1–GFP, where M1, M2 and M3 indicate the sole retained intact putative AUG start codon in the construct. Each construct was then used to stably transform wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana. Confocal imaging of AtLIG1–GFP fusion protein expressed from wild-type and mutagenized constructs in root tip cells of stably transformed Arabidopsis plants showed that WT-AtLIG1–GFP is targeted to both the nucleus and mitochondria of these cells (Figure 5a). However, in plants transformed with the M1-AtLIG1–GFP construct, where translation is initiated only from M1, the M1-AtLIG1–GFP isoform synthesized is targeted only to the mitochondria (Figure 5b,e–g), and there is no detectable GFP fluorescence from the nucleus (Figure 5b,e). In contrast, plants transformed with either the M2-AtLIG1–GFP or M3-AtLIG1–GFP constructs, which lack a functional M1, exhibit GFP fluorescence only from the nucleus, with mitochondrial localization of any AtLIG1–GFP fusion protein abolished (Figure 5c,d). Interestingly, the M1-AtLIG1–GFP fusion protein contains both an N-terminal amphipathic mitochondrial-targeting sequence and the bipartite NLS, yet this isoform is only targeted to the mitochondria and not to the nucleus in planta (Figure 5b). This result is indicative of a hierarchical dominance of the mitochondrial presequence over the NLS in intracellular targeting when both signal sequences are present in the same AtLIG1 protein in planta. The nuclear and mitochondrial forms of DNA ligase 1 in Arabidopsis are translated from a single mRNA species using the first and second in-frame AUG codons (M1 and M2), probably by a leaky ribosomal scanning mechanism (CITATION). How such a mechanism is controlled is unknown, although flanking sequences and RNA secondary structure around the start site have been shown to modulate the efficiency with which an AUG codon is recognized as the translation start signal in the maize Lc transcriptional activator mRNA (CITATION). In order to quantify the effect of nucleotide context in the vicinities of both M1 and M2 start codons on AtLIG1 translation initiation and isoform production, we performed site-directed mutagenesis creating more or less favourable contexts around each start codon in turn, and measured the effects of these mutations on translation of AtLIG1 from each start codon. Specifically we produced AtLIG1 cDNA constructs in which (i) the −6 to +4 base sequence around M1 was mutated to be identical to that around M2, and (ii) there was a reciprocal change so that the −6 to +4 base sequence around M1 resembled the wild-type M2 sequence whilst the −6 to +4 sequence around M2 resembled the wild-type M1 sequence (Figure 6a). Native and mutagenized AtLIG1 constructs were expressed individually in a coupled transcription–translation in vitro cell-free system in the presence of 35S-methionine to radioactively label in vitro translated AtLIG1 (Figure 6b). The relative intensity of labelling of the primary unprocessed translation products from M1 and M2 using the mutagenized constructs were compared to their intensities using the WT AtLIG1 construct to allow us to quantify any effect of nucleotide context round each start codon on translation initiation efficiency at M1 and M2. [[FIGURE]] With WT AtLIG1 transcripts, translation initiation occurs equally well at M1 and M2 (Figure 6b,c), demonstrating that around 50% of the small ribosomal subunits traversing the AtLIG1 transcript fail to recognize and therefore scan past the first AUG codon (M1) to initiate translation at M2. This leaky scanning ensures the production of both the mitochondrial and nuclear isoforms of AtLIG1 in roughly equal amounts in the in vitro system. The presence of a theoretically stronger M2 context around M1 in AtLIG1 transcripts has a significant stimulatory effect on translation initiation at this first AUG codon compared to M2 (Figure 6b,d). Translation initiation from the first AUG codon when present in an M2 context now occurs twice as frequently as from the second AUG codon (Figure 6d), indicative of a much reduced level of leaky scanning by small ribosomal subunits as they traverse this AtLIG1 transcript. Reciprocal exchange of the contexts around M1 and M2 in the AtLIG1 construct produced no further changes in translation initiation efficiencies compared to the construct in which only the M1 context had been changed to that of M2 (Figure 6b,d). Translation initiation at a choice of start sites can be influenced by the sequence or structural features of the 5′-UTR of the mRNA transcript (CITATION). We have investigated whether variation in the length of the 5′-UTR preceding the first initiation codon (M1) in AtLIG1 could affect translation from M1 and M2 (Figure 7a). There was no significant difference in the relative rates of translation initiation from M1 and M2 on AtLIG1 transcripts with 5′-UTR lengths up to 30 nt (Figure 7b,c). Increasing the length of the 5′-UTR to 73 nt, i.e. to the length of the 5′-UTR of the only other AtLIG1 mRNA species that has significant representation (approximately 15%) in the AtLIG1 mRNA pool, has no significant effect on the rate of translation from M1. However, translation from M2 on this construct occurred at a reduced level (approximately 40% lower than that from M2 on the AtLIG1 transcript with the shortest 5′-UTR) (Figure 7c). Translation from M1 and M2 on constructs representing the least abundant AtLIG1 transcript, which constitutes < 5% of the cellular AtLIG1 mRNA pool, is indistinguishable from the pattern of translation on the 73 nt 5′-UTR AtLIG1 transcript (Figure 7c). This decrease in translation initiation from M2 occurs as the length of the 5′-UTR increases from 30 up to approximately 43 nt but there is no additional change in relative usage of M1 and M2 as the length of the 5′-UTR increases further up to 73 nt (Figure 7c). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds (Col-0 ecotype) were surface-sterilized by washing in 1 ml of 10% NaOCl, rinsed with sterile water and incubated in darkness for 2 days at 4°C. Sterilized seeds were either sown on modified MS medium (CITATION) containing half-strength MS salts and vitamins, 1% sucrose and 0.6% microbiological grade agar (Sigma-Aldrich Company Ltd, Gillingham, Dorset, UK), or sown directly onto previously autoclaved SHL all-purpose compost (William Sinclair Horticultural Ltd, Lincoln, UK). Plants were grown in an environmentally controlled growth chamber (SGC970/C/HQI, Sanyo-Gallenkamp, Loughborough, UK) with a 16/8 h light (100 μmol m−2 sec−1)/dark regime at 20°C and 50% relative humidity. Light was supplied by a combination of Osram tungsten lamps and high-intensity discharge lamps (Light Source Supplies, Bishops Stortford, UK). DNA procedures and bacterial manipulations were performed using established protocols (CITATION) unless otherwise stated. All PCR amplifications were carried out using Pfu UltraTM High-Fidelity DNA Polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA). PCR products were cloned into pCR®2.1-TOPO® using a TOPO® TA cloning kit (Invitrogen, Paisley, UK). All constructs were verified by BigDye® Terminator sequencing (Applied Biosystems, Warrington, UK). Plasmid DNA was isolated at analytical scale using Qiagen mini-prep spin columns (Qiagen, Crawley, UK) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The Escherichia coli strain TOP10 [Invitrogen; genotype F-mcrA Δ(mrr-hsdRMS-mcrBC) φ80lacZΔM15 ΔlacX74 deoR recA1 araD139 Δ(ara-leu)7697 galU galK rpsL (StrR) endA1 nupG] was used for routine cloning. RNA was isolated from 7- to 10-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings using either the SV Total RNA Isolation Kit (Promega, Southampton, UK) or by LiCl precipitation as described previously (CITATION). RLM–RACE was performed using the FirstChoiceTM RLM–RACE kit (Ambion, Huntingdon, UK) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Briefly, total RNA was dephosphorylated using calf intestinal alkaline phosphatase, and treated with tobacco acid pyrophosphatase, resulting in decapped full-length messenger RNA possessing an intact 5′ phosphate. The processed RNA was ligated with a kit-supplied RNA adaptor, and reverse-transcribed using random decamers. 5′ RACE PCR was performed using the FirstChoiceTM 5′-RACE outer primer and the AtLIG1-specific primer RLM-1 (5′-AAACAATAGTTTTGCCCAAATTAGC-3′). As no primary products were observed from this amplification, a nested-PCR reaction was performed using the FirstChoiceTM 5′-RACE inner primer and the AtLIG1-specific primer RLM-2 (5′-TTGGGTTTCTCCAATTTTCCTTTTGTTC-3′). The resultant cDNA products were cloned into pCR2.1-TOPO using a TOPO TA cloning kit (Invitrogen). A 358 nt DNA template, corresponding to the first 100 bp of the AtLIG1 ORF and extending 258 nt into the AtLIG1 5′-UTR, was amplified by PCR using the forward primer RPA1-F (5′-GATCATTGGGATCTATTAAAGATTTG-3′) and the reverse primer RPA2-R (5′-AAGAGATTAACACGGAGGAGAAT-3′). A T7 RNA polymerase promoter was ligated to either end of the PCR product using a Lig'nScribeTM PCR kit (Ambion). The DNA species with the promoter:probe orientation required to generate an antisense RNA probe was specifically amplified by nested PCR using a kit-supplied T7 primer and the AtLIG1-specific primer RPA1-F. This PCR product was transcribed in vitro, in the presence of α-32P-labelled UTP (MP Biomedicals, Irvine, CA, USA), using a T7 MAXIscriptTMin vitro transcription kit (Ambion), to generate a 368 nt antisense RNA probe. Full-length probe was recovered by gel purification, and an RPA was performed using an RPA IIITM kit (Ambion), according to the manufacturer's instructions. Briefly, purified polyadenylated RNA was isolated from 7–10-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings using a MicroPoly(A)Purist kitTM (Ambion) and co-precipitated with a molar excess of probe (approximately 2 fmol), resuspended in 10 μl of hybridization solution and incubated at 42°C for 12 h. The hybridized RNAs were digested with RNase A/T1 mix, and the protected RNAs recovered by precipitation. Samples were denatured and resolved on a 6% polyacrylamide, 8 m urea gel. Gels were analysed using a BAS1800 Phosphorimager (Fuji Photo Film Co., Tokyo, Japan). Densitometry was performed using Advanced Image Data Analyzer (AIDA) software (Raytest, Straubenhardt, Germany). The plasmid pSMRSGFP (CITATION), a pUC118-based vector containing a red-shifted, soluble modified form of GFP4 (rsGFP), under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter, was used to create an AtLIG1–GFP translation fusion. The existing GFP DNA was digested from the pSMRSGFP vector using BamHI and SacI, and the vector DNA recovered. The N-terminal 270 nt of the AtLIG1 DNA sequence (representing amino acids 1–90) was amplified by PCR using the forward primer Lig1-3WF (5′-CGGGATCCAATCGACTGATGTTAGCGATTCGATCGTCGAAT-3′) and the reverse primer Lig1-3WR (5′-GAAGATCTTTGGGTTTCTCCAATTTTCCTTTTGTTC-3′). BamHI and BglII restriction sites (underlined) were engineered 5′ and 3′ of the Lig1 product, respectively. The primers GFP-3WF (5′-GAAGATCTAGTAAAGGAGAACTTTTC-3′) and GFP-3WR (5′-CGAGCTCTTATTTGTATAGTTCATCCATGCC-3′) were used to amplify rsGFP, introducing a BglII site at the rsGFP start codon but retaining the existing SacI site at the 3′ end (underlined). The AtLIG1 and GFP PCR products were digested and cloned into the digested pSMRSGFP in a three-way ligation (CITATION), resulting in a WT-AtLIG1–GFP construct. AtLIG1 mutant constructs that contained only a single intact start codon at M1, M2 or M3 were generated using WT-AtLIG1–GFP as a template in a Quikchange® Multi site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene) according to the manufacturer's instructions. To generate each mutant, pairs of codons were simultaneously mutagenized to TAG (stop) if upstream of an intact AUG or to GCG (alanine) if downstream of an intact AUG. Specifically, M1-AtLIG1–GFP was generated using primers M2-Ala (5′-TGCCATAGAGCCGCGTCTTCTTCCCG-3′) and M3-Ala (5′-TTTGATGCTCTCGCGTCCAATGCTCG-3′), M2-AtLIG1–GFP using primers GFP-M1-Ter (5′-AGGTCTAGACTGTAGTTAGCGATTCG-3′) and M3-Ala, and M3-AtLIG1–GFP using primers GFP-M1-Ter and M2-Ter (5′-TGCCATAGAGCCTAGTCTTCTTCCCG-3′). Wild-type and mutagenized AtLIG1–GFP expression cassettes were digested from pSMRSGFP and cloned into the pCAMBIA 2300 vector at the HindIII–EcoRI sites, and introduced into Arabidopsis thaliana by the floral dip method of Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation (CITATION). Tissue from AtLIG1–GFP-transformed Arabidopsis plants, including root, leaf and stem tissue, was dissected, immersed in distilled water and covered with a no. 1 grade coverslip (VWR International, Poole, UK). MitoTracker® Red CM-H2Ros (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA), a fluorescent probe that selectively labels mitochondria, was used to determine the presence or absence of GFP and MitoTracker® co-localization in wild-type and mutagenized AtLIG1–GFP backgrounds. Arabidopsis seedlings were immersed in a working concentration of 0.5 μm MitoTracker® for 10 min and washed with distilled water prior to mounting as described above. Confocal images were obtained using a Leica SP2 AOBS confocal system coupled with a Leica DM IRE2 inverted microscope (Leica Microsystems (UK) Ltd, Milton Keynes, UK). The 488 nm line of an argon laser and the 543 nm line of a green HeNe laser supplied excitation wavelengths for rsGFP and Mitotracker®, respectively. Fluorescence emission was collected simultaneously at 514 nm for rsGFP and 579 nm for Mitotracker® using either a 40X NA (1.25–0.75) HCX PL APO or a 63X NA (1.4–0.6) HCX PL APO oil immersion lens. Confocal images were acquired in 256 × 256 pixel format using Leica Confocal Software (LCS). Post-acquisition image processing and analysis was carried out using LCS and Adobe Photoshop version 7.0 (Adobe Systems UK, Uxbridge, UK). Full-length WT-AtLIG1 cDNA was amplified by PCR and cloned into pCR®-BLUNT (Invitrogen) vector. AtLIG1 cDNA was digested from pCR®-BLUNT using HindIII and PstI, and cloned into the HindIII–PstI sites of the pSP64 PolyA vector (Promega) to create the construct pSPLig1-WT. To generate pSPLIG1 mutant constructs that contained only a single intact start codon at M1 or M2, codon pairs were mutagenized as described above with modifications. pSPLig1-WT was used as the template for each Quikchange Multi site-directed mutagenesis reaction, and identical primer combinations were used as described above except for pSPLig1-M2 where primer M1-Ter (5′-AGGTCTAGACTGTAGTTAGCGATTCG-3′) was used to mutate M1 (ATG → TAG). The nucleotide sequence context around M1 (CGACUGaugU) was mutated to the M2 sequence context (AGAGCCaugU) by incorporating the first 30 bp of AtLIG1 5′-UTR in the forward primer M1kozM2-F (5′-GATCAAGCTTTCTAAAACCCTAATTTCAAAATAGAGCCATGTTAGCGATTCGATCGTCGAAT-3′) and amplifying full-length AtLIG1 cDNA in combination with the reverse primer Koz-R (5′-GATCCTGCAGTCAATCATCGTCACCTTTGACTTC-3′) using pSPLig1-WT as a template. HindIII and PstI restriction sites (underlined) were engineered 5′ and 3′ of the Lig1 product, respectively. This cDNA was cloned into the HindIII–PstI sites of the pSP64 PolyA vector (Promega) to create the construct pSPLig1-M12M22, and was used as the initial template in a two-step mutagenesis approach, using the Quikchange Multi site-directed mutagenesis kit, to mutate the nucleotide sequence context around M2 (AGAGCCaugU) to that of M1(CGACUGaugU). The first step used the primer M2kozM1-A (5′-CTCGTGCCATAGACTGATGTCTTCTTCCCGCCCTT-3′) to mutate the −3 to −1 position from GCC to CTG (in bold). A successful mutant plasmid generated from the first round of mutagenesis was used in a second mutagenesis reaction to mutate the −6 position from A to C (in bold), using the primer M2kozM1-B (5′-AGCTCGTGCCATCGACTGATGTCTT-3′). This construct was named pSPLig1-M12M21. AtLIG1 constructs containing native and mutant Kozak contexts were transcribed and translated in vitro, in the presence of 35S-labelled methionine, using a TnT®-coupled wheat germ cell-free system (Promega) according to manufacturer's instructions, with modifications. To allow quantitative analysis of mutant and native AtLIG1 radiolabelled isoforms, a common master mix containing all components of the TnT® system was prepared and added to 0.5 μg of each DNA template in a 50 μl reaction. The concentration of each DNA template was verified both by A260 reading using an Eppendorf BioPhotometer (Eppendorf, Cambridge, UK) and also by ethidium bromide staining. TnT® reactions were separated on a 6% denaturing polyacrylamide gel, dried, and analysed using a BAS-1800 Phosphorimager (Fuji Photo Film Co.). Densitometry was performed as described previously. For statistical analysis of densitometry data, Microsoft Excel was used to perform two-tailed Student's t-tests assuming equal variances (expected difference = 0, α = 0.05). A full-length AtLIG1 cDNA containing 30 nt of the native AtLIG1 5′-UTR was amplified using the forward primer WTkozF (5′-GATAAGCTTTCTAAAACCCTAATTTCAAAATCGACTGATGTTAGCGATTCGATCGTCGAAT-3′) and the reverse primer Koz-R, using pSPLig1-WT as template, and cloned into the pSP64 PolyA vector (Promega) as described previously to generate the plasmid pSPLIG1-30. pSPLIG1-30 was then used as template to amplify full-length AtLIG1 cDNAs containing 43 and 73 nt of the native AtLIG1 5′-UTR using the reverse primer Koz-R and the forward primers −43UTRF (5′-GATCAAGCTTGCAACACCTGTCCTTTCTAAAACCCTAATTTC-3′) and −73UTRF (5′-GATCAAGCTTATTATCACCTTTCTTCAAGGTTGCAAACTTGCAACACCTGTCCTTTCTAAAACCCTAATTTC-3′), respectively. The PCR products were cloned into the pSP64 PolyA vector (Promega) as described above to generate the plasmids pSPLIG1-43 and pSPLIG1-73. Analysis of the translation efficiency of pSPLIG1-30, -43 and -73 was performed using a TNT®-coupled wheat germ cell-free system (Promega) as described previously.
