!~ABS~! Soil fertilization is a common practice in modern agriculture, undertaken to prevent nutrient deficiency in crops. However, fertilization is costly and causes environmental pollution. The cultivation of plants that tolerate low nutrient supplies may circumvent this problem. Here, we report the generation of Arabidopsis thaliana plants that tolerate boron (B)-deficient conditions due to the overexpression of BOR1, an efflux B transporter that is required for efficient xylem loading of B. In several independently generated transgenic plants expressing BOR1 or BOR1–GFP under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S RNA promoter, root-to-shoot translocation of B was enhanced and shoot growth was greater under B-limiting conditions compared with wild-type plants. In addition, the transgenic plants showed increased translocation of B, especially to the shoot apex, and set seed normally under B-limiting conditions, under which wild-type plants failed to set seed. This study therefore reports plants that show improved seed yields compared with wild-type under nutrient-deficient conditions as a result of increased production of an essential mineral nutrient transporter.
!~RES~! Before generating transgenic Arabidopsis plants that overexpress either BOR1 or BOR1–GFP, we determined the B transport activity of BOR1–GFP in yeast. BOR1–GFP was expressed in yeast cells lacking ScBOR1 (YNL275w), the sole BOR1 ortholog in yeast, and the B concentration in the cells after exposure to 0.5 mm boric acid was determined (Figure 1). The B concentration in cells expressing BOR1–GFP was similar to that in cells expressing BOR1, and about half that in cells carrying the control vector. These results indicate that BOR1–GFP is capable of reducing the B concentration in cells to an extent similar to BOR1. The addition of GFP at the C-terminus of BOR1 did not affect the B efflux transporter activity of the protein. [[FIGURE]] We generated Arabidopsis plants overexpressing BOR1 or BOR1–GFP under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S RNA promoter. Seven and 16 homozygous independent transgenic lines containing the BOR1 or BOR1–GFP constructs, respectively, were generated. Among them, one BOR1 line and 11 BOR1–GFP lines exhibited reduced growth on media containing 0.3 μm B, especially in the aerial portion of the plants, but not on media containing normal (30 μm) levels of B. The B-deficiency-specific growth defects are similar to the phenotype of the bor1-1 mutant (CITATION; CITATION). All of the transgenic lines that exhibited this phenotype also showed decreased BOR1 mRNA accumulation (data not shown), suggesting that the phenotype was caused by the suppression of expression of both the endogenous BOR1 and the BOR1 transgene. Among the other transgenic lines, we identified four, L6, L10, L15 and L18, that showed elevated accumulation of BOR1 or BOR1–GFP mRNA (Table 1). The lines L6 and L10 carry PCaMV 35S-BOR1, and the lines L15 and L18 carry PCaMV 35S-BOR1–GFP. Segregation of T-DNA in the T2 generation indicated that each line carries the T-DNA insertion(s) at a single locus. The lines that were homozygous for the T-DNA insertion were carried to the T3 generation and used in subsequent studies. The BOR1 mRNA accumulation was determined using real-time Rt-PCR. The BOR1 transcript levels were standardized to the levels of the ubiquitin 10 (UBQ10) transcript as a control. The relative mRNA accumulation in the transgenic plants is shown after normalization to the level in wild-type plants, which was defined as one. The means ± SD of three replicates are shown. WT, wild-type Col-0; L6, transgenic line 6 carrying P35S-BOR1; L10, transgenic line 10 carrying P35S-BOR1; L15, transgenic line 15 carrying P35S-BOR1–GFP; L18, transgenic line 18 carrying P35S-BOR1–GFP. To examine the effect of BOR1 overexpression on plant growth in media containing various B concentrations, the transgenic lines L15 and L18 were first grown on solid media containing 0.03 or 3 μm B. The growth of both lines was similar to that of the wild-type when B was supplied at 3 μm (Figure 2a). In contrast, the growth of the aerial portions of the transgenic plants was obviously more vigorous than that of the wild-type plants on medium containing 0.03 μm B (Figure 2a). [[FIGURE]] We then examined the growth of the transgenic line L18 under a wide range of B concentrations, from 0.03 to 6000 μm. The shoot growth (Figure 2b) but not the root growth (Figure 2c) of the transgenic plants was significantly improved in media containing 0.03 or 0.1 μm B (P-values of 0.015 and 0.002, respectively, by Student's t-test.). The fresh weight of plants of the transgenic line was twice that of wild-type plants. Improved growth under 0.1 μm B supply was also observed in the L15 line (data not shown). These results established that the growth improvement of transgenic plants under B-limited conditions was caused by the overexpression of BOR1–GFP. Importantly, the growth of both shoots and roots of the transgenic lines was indistinguishable from that of wild-type plants when the plants were supplied with normal levels of B (3 and 30 μm, Figure 2b,c). In addition, there was no significant difference in the growth of transgenic or wild-type plants in the presence of toxic levels of B (300–6000 μm, Figure 2b,c). The transgenic plants generated in the present study exhibited enhanced growth under low-B conditions and no obvious detrimental effects under conditions with optimal or high levels of B. In crop plants, the requirement for B is often higher in the reproductive stage than in the vegetative stage (CITATION). During the reproductive stage, B deficiency damages flower development, fertilization and fruit growth (CITATION). B deficiency decreases seed yields in wheat, even in the absence of observable symptoms in the vegetative growth (CITATION). In Arabidopsis, similar growth defects were observed. When grown hydroponically in medium containing 0.5 μm B, wild-type plants grew normally in the vegetative stages, but failed to set seed (Figure 3a, left panel, and Figure 3b, left panel). In contrast, under the same conditions, the transgenic plants overexpressing BOR1 (lines L10 and L15) set seed normally (Figure 3a, right panel, Figure 3b). This improvement in seed set was observed in all transgenic lines exhibiting elevated expression of BOR1 or BOR1–GFP (Figure 3b and data not shown). Therefore, the overexpression of BOR1 improves seed set under B-deficient conditions. [[FIGURE]] To elucidate the physiological basis of the increased shoot growth caused by the overexpression of BOR1, we measured accumulation of B in shoots. The plants were grown for 27 days under continuous supply of various concentrations of B. Consistent with the results of previous reports (Noguchi et al., 1997, 2000; Takano et al., 2001, 2002), the B concentration in shoots was lower in the bor1-1 mutant plants than in wild-type plants under low-B conditions (1 and 10 μm B) and similar under normal and high-B conditions (100 and 1000 μm B, Figure 4). In the BOR1-overexpressing transgenic plants, the B concentrations in shoots were 1.4–1.9 times greater than those in the wild-type when grown in media containing 1, 10 and 100 μm B (Figure 4). The B concentration was in a similar range in all lines in media containing 1000 μm B. These results indicate that the shoots of transgenic lines accumulate more B than those of the wild-type under B-limiting and optimal conditions but not under B-toxic conditions. [[FIGURE]] To elucidate the nature of the increased B accumulation in shoots caused by the overexpression of BOR1, a short-term B uptake experiment into roots and shoots was conducted using stable isotopes of B. The plants were initially grown for 23 days in a standard medium containing 100 μm11B-enriched B, followed by growth for 3 days in medium containing 1 μm11B-enriched B. The plants were then incubated for 60 min in medium containing 30 μm10B-enriched B, and the concentrations of the tracer 10B in roots and shoots were determined. Growth in low-B medium prior to application of the tracer 10B was previously shown to enhance BOR1 activity in wild-type plants (CITATION). Similar to the results of previous reports (CITATION; CITATION), the B uptake into shoots, but not roots, was lower in the bor1-1 mutant plants than in wild-type plants (Figure 5). In the BOR1-overexpressing transgenic plants, the B uptake into roots was similar to or slightly lower than that in wild-type plants (Figure 5a). In contrast, the amounts of B taken up into shoots in these transgenic lines were more than double that in the wild-type (Figure 5b). These results indicate that the translocation of B from roots to shoots, but not the uptake of B into roots, was increased in the transgenic lines. [[FIGURE]] To further understand the basis of the improved seed set in the transgenic plants, the distribution of the tracer B in different portions of shoots was examined by determining the B translocation into the rosette leaves and shoot apices. In the present study, we define the shoot apex as the uppermost 2 cm of the stem. Forty-day-old plants grown in the presence of 100 μm11B-enriched B were treated with 1 μm11B for 24 h. The plants were then transferred into medium containing 10 μm10B-enriched boric acid as a tracer, and incubated for another 24 h. After this treatment, fully expanded rosette leaves and shoot apices were harvested and the concentrations of 10B and 11B were determined. In agreement with the results of the short-term uptake experiments into the shoot (Figure 5b), the tracer B concentrations in both the rosette leaves and the shoot apices were lower in bor1-1 mutant plants and higher in the transgenic plants than in wild-type plants (Figure 6). In addition, the distributions of B between the rosette leaves and the shoot apices were altered in the bor1-1 mutant and the transgenic plants. In the bor1-1 mutant, the tracer B concentrations in the rosette leaves and the shoot apices were 34% and 12%, respectively, of those in the same organs in wild-type plants (Figure 6). This reduction is consistent with the results of previous reports (CITATION; CITATION), and represents the contribution of endogenous BOR1 to the translocation of B preferentially to the shoot apex rather than to the rosette leaves. [[FIGURE]] In the transgenic lines overexpressing BOR1, the tracer B concentrations were 1.2–1.9 times higher in rosette leaves and 2.6–3.1 times higher in shoot apices, when compared with those in the wild-type plants (Figure 6). These results demonstrate that overexpression of BOR1 enhances the preferential translocation of B to shoot apices. It is likely that this enhanced transport contributes to the improved seed set of the transgenic plants under conditions of limited B supply. The CaMV 35S RNA promoter is a constitutive promoter that is strongly expressed in vascular tissues (CITATION). To examine the tissue types in which BOR1 or BOR1–GFP was expressed, the GFP fluorescence was observed in the transgenic plants expressing BOR1–GFP. Strong GFP fluorescence was observed in the periphery of all root cell types in plants grown in low-B conditions, as reported previously (CITATION) (Figure 7). In the root tip, GFP fluorescence was detected strongly in the meristematic region. More importantly, in the mature portion, GFP was detected predominately in vascular tissues. It is likely that high accumulation of BOR1 or BOR1–GFP in the plasma membranes of cells surrounding the xylem vessels caused the export of B from the symplasts to the stelar apoplasts, resulting in increased translocation of B from the roots to the shoots via the xylem under B-limiting conditions. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Col-0 and bor1-1 mutant Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. plants were derived from our laboratory stocks (CITATION). A plasmid carrying the CaMV 35S RNA promoter (P35S):BOR1 was constructed as follows. pTF459 was generated by ligating the BamHI–SacI fragment of pTF438 (CITATION), the XbaI–BamHI fragment of pTF450 (see below), and the XbaI–SacI fragment (vector) of pTF377. pTF450 was generated by disruption of the BamHI site in the multi-cloning site of RZ119b07, the original BOR1 cDNA clone from the Kazusa DNA Research Institute (Chiba, Japan). pTF377 and pBI221 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA) are identical except that the GUS ORF in pBI221 is replaced with that of GFP in pTF377. For plant transformation, the insert of pTF459 was subcloned into pBIN19 (CITATION) using EcoRI and XbaI, resulting in pTF469, which was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens cells (CITATION). Construction of the plasmid carrying P35S-BOR1–GFP and the plant transformation method are as described previously (CITATION). The plasmid pTF477, which is the vector pYES2 (Invitrogen, Tokyo, Japan) containing BOR1, has been described previously (CITATION). A fragment of the BOR1–GFP fusion (Takano et al., 2002, 2005a) was amplified and subcloned into pYES2 to produce pTF478. Each of the plasmids was introduced into the Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain 1169 (MATa his3Δ1 leu2Δ0 met15Δ0 ura3 Δ0 YNL275W::kanMX4), which was constructed from BY4741 by insertional mutagenesis of the YNL275w ORF (CITATION). The yeast medium used was synthetic minimal medium containing 2% w/v galactose. A 50 ml aliquot of culture in the mid-log phase was transferred to a 50 ml plastic tube and then centrifuged at 3000 g for 5 min to collect the yeast cells. The cells were mixed with 20 ml of galactose-containing medium (adjusted to pH 5.5 with Tris) containing 0.5 mm boric acid and incubated for 60 min. The soluble fraction of the yeast cells was sampled, and the B concentrations were determined as described by CITATION. The experiment was carried out on three independent transformants. To observe vegetative growth, surface-sterilized seeds were sown on the plates and incubated in a vertical position for 10 days at 22°C under a 16 h light/8 h dark cycle as described previously (CITATION). To observe reproductive growth, plants were grown hydroponically for 61 days as described previously (CITATION). Plants were grown for 14 days on plates containing 30 μm boric acid. RNA extraction, reverse transcription, and real-time PCR analysis were carried out as described by CITATION. The BOR1 transcript levels were standardized to the levels of the ubiquitin 10 (UBQ10) transcript. The sequences of the PCR primers used were reported by CITATION. Plants were grown for 11 days on solid medium containing 3 μm boric acid. GFP fluorescence was observed using a laser-scanning confocal microscope (LSM 510, Carl Zeiss, Jena, Germany) with a 488 nm excitation wavelength and an emission window of 505–530 nm. The digestion of samples and B isotope determination by inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy were as described previously (CITATION). To measure the accumulation of B in shoots, plants were grown hydroponically supplied with 1, 10, 100 and 1000 μm boric acid according to the method described by CITATION. The shoots of plants grown for 27 days were harvested and their fresh weight was determined. To examine the short-term boron uptake into roots and shoots, plants were grown hydroponically according to the method described by CITATION. The plants were grown for 23 days in medium supplemented with 100 μm11B-enriched boric acid (99%, Cambridge Isotope Laboratories, Andover, MA, USA) in place of the boric acid (10B:11B = 19.9:80.1). For low-B treatment, the plants were transferred to medium containing 1 μm11B-enriched boric acid and incubated for 3 days, followed by incubation for 60 min in medium containing 30 μm10B-enriched boric acid (99%, Cambridge Isotope Laboratories). Plants were sampled before and after the application of tracer B. The roots were briefly washed with water, dried, and then weighed. The weight of each shoot was measured as fresh weight and then converted into dry weight based on the average dry weight/fresh weight ratio under our experimental conditions (0.090 ± 0.006, n = 15). The amount of tracer B taken up into the roots and shoots during the 60 min incubation period was calculated by subtracting the 10B content of untreated plants from the 10B content of tracer-treated plants. To determine the B distribution into rosette leaves and shoot apices, plants were grown hydroponically according to the method described by CITATION. The plants were grown for 40 days in medium supplemented with 100 μm11B-enriched boric acid, and were then transferred to medium containing 1 μm11B-enriched boric acid and incubated for 24 h. Next, they were incubated for 24 h in medium containing 10 μm10B-enriched boric acid as a tracer. Rosette leaves and shoot apices (the uppermost 2 cm of the stem) were sampled before the application of tracer B as well as 24 h later and their dry weight was measured. The fraction of B derived from the tracer (Bdft) was determined as described by CITATION, using the following equation:   The subscripts t, u, and s refer to the atomic percentages of 10B in the treated sample, the untreated sample, and the hydroponic solution used for the tracer experiments respectively. The percentages of 10Bu calculated from the ratio of the 10B and 11B contents of samples of rosette leaves and shoot apices of untreated plants were 0.3% and 1.0% respectively. The percentage of 10Bs was 99.0% in this study.
