!~ABS~! Proline metabolism has been implicated in plant responses to abiotic stresses. The Arabidopsis thaliana proline dehydrogenase (ProDH) is catalysing the first step in proline degradation. Transcriptional activation of ProDH by hypo‐osmolarity is mediated by an ACTCAT cis element, a typical binding site of basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factors. In this study, we demonstrate by gain‐of‐function and loss‐of‐function approaches, as well as chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), that ProDH is a direct target gene of the group‐S bZIP factor AtbZIP53. Dimerisation studies making use of yeast and Arabidopsis protoplast‐based two‐hybrid systems, as well as bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) reveal that AtbZIP53 does not preferentially form dimers with group‐S bZIPs but strongly interacts with members of group‐C. In particular, a synergistic interplay of AtbZIP53 and group‐C AtbZIP10 was demonstrated by colocalisation studies, strong enhancement of ACTCAT‐mediated transcription as well as complementation studies in atbzip53 atbzip10 T‐DNA insertion lines. Heterodimer mediated activation of transcription has been found to operate independent of the DNA‐binding properties and is described as a crucial mechanism to modulate transcription factor activity and function.
!~RES~! Using in vitro DNA‐binding studies and transfection experiments in Arabidopsis protoplasts, CITATION demonstrated that the group‐S1 bZIP transcription factors bind to the ACTCAT cis element located in the ProDH promoter. However, expression data of the correspondent bZIP genes, obtained from the RARGE database (http://rarge.gsc.riken.jp) or by CITATION, suggest that AtbZIP53 constitutes as the main regulator of hypo‐osmolarity‐induced ProDH transcription. Whereas AtbZIP53 is strongly induced by hypo‐osmolarity treatment (FIG-REF), AtbZIP11 or AtbZIP44 are not. We therefore focussed on studying the function of AtbZIP53 in the regulation of ProDH transcription. Expression of an HA‐tagged AtbZIP53 gene driven by the 35S promoter (Pro35S:HA‐AtbZIP53), as monitored by Northern and Western analyses (FIG-REF), resulted in a constitutive activation of the ProDH gene (FIG-REF). Comparable results were obtained with several transgenic lines expressing an untagged construct indicating that this response is not due to the HA‐tag (data not shown). Complementarily, a partial loss‐of‐function mutant of AtbZIP53 (atbzip53) (FIG-REF) displayed a significantly reduced and delayed induction of ProDH transcription after hypo‐osmolarity treatment (approximately by 40%) (FIG-REF). Owing to redundancy, AtbZIP53 and other group‐S1 bZIP transcription factors (CITATION) might show an overlapping function which results in the residual activation of ProDH expression in the AtbZIP53 plant. To verify direct binding of AtbZIP53 to the ProDH promoter in vivo, ChIP was performed applying chromatin obtained from HA‐AtbZIP53‐expressing plants (Pro35S:HA‐AtbZIP53) using an HA‐tag‐specific antibody. A significant enrichment of ProDH promoter fragments was detected by PCR amplification, using ProDH promoter‐specific primers (FIG-REF). Control primers, unrelated to the AtbZIP53 target gene did not result in an enrichment following immunoprecipitation (FIG-REF). In summary, the in vitro and in vivo evidence support the hypothesis that the ProDH promoter is a direct target of the AtbZIP53 transcription factor. [[FIGURE]] bZIP factors usually bind DNA as homo‐ or heterodimers, consequently, dimer formation allows the establishment of complex regulatory networks based on combinatorial interactions. It is tempting to speculate that heterodimers of AtbZIP53 formed with the related group‐S1 bZIP factors are regulating ProDH transcription. However, when applying a yeast two‐hybrid approach, no AtbZIP53 homodimers or AtbZIP53 containing heterodimers were formed with any of the group‐S1 bZIP proteins or other less related group‐S bZIP factors (FIG-REF). A quantitative assay for protein–protein interactions confirmed the weak heterodimerisation capacity of AtbZIP53 with other group‐S1 members (data not shown). We further analysed the potential of AtbZIP53 to interact with other bZIP factors. As described for tobacco (CITATION) and parsley (CITATION), group‐S1‐like bZIP proteins specifically heterodimerise with group‐C‐like bZIPs. Strong heterodimerisation of AtbZIP53 was detected with all Arabidopsis group‐C bZIP proteins, namely AtbZIP9, AtbZIP10, AtbZIP25 and AtbZIP63 (FIG-REF). As no heterodimerisation with members of the bZIP groups A (e.g. AtbZIP39) and D (e.g. AtbZIP22) was found, this heterodimerisation is assumed to be specific. In order to analyse whether the protein–protein interaction is mediated by the leucine zipper domain, two conserved residues (leucine51 and alanine72) were changed to prolines which should disrupt the α‐helical structure of the ZIP domain (AtbZIP53PP). As shown in FIG-REF, no interaction between AtbZIP53PP and group‐C members, such as AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP9 was observed. [[FIGURE]] To verify bZIP heterodimerisation in planta, BiFC assays were performed in Agrobacterium‐infiltrated tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) leaves (CITATION) using the strongly interacting AtbZIP53 and AtbZIP10 as a representative example. Both bZIP factors localise to the nucleus when expressed as YFP fusion proteins (FIG-REF). When fused to the N‐ and C‐terminal YFP fragment and coexpressed in tobacco leaves, a strong BiFC signal was detected in the nuclear compartment of the transformed cells (FIG-REF), confirming the interaction of AtbZIP53 and AtbZIP10 in planta. Control experiments in which C‐YFP‐AtbZIP53 and unfused N‐YFP protein are expressed do not show any fluorescence (FIG-REF). In order to demonstrate the specificity of BiFC system, the C‐YFP‐AtbZIP53PP mutation was coexpressed with N‐YFP‐AtbZIP10. Specific mutation of the ZIP domain (see FIG-REF) interferes with heterodimerisation and in consequence does not result in positive BiFC signals (FIG-REF). In order to confirm expression of the BiFC constructs, Western analyses have been performed (data not shown). Finally, homodimerisation of AtbZIP53 and AtbZIP10 was analysed in this system, but no or only significantly weaker homotypic interactions could be detected (data not shown). In summary, these experiments provide conclusive evidence for the formation of group‐S1/C heterodimers in planta. [[FIGURE]] In order to quantify bZIP heterodimerisation in planta, a two‐hybrid approach was established in Arabidopsis protoplasts as described by CITATION. AtbZIP53 and the related group‐S1 and group‐C bZIP factors were fused to the GAL4 DNA‐binding domain (BD) (CITATION) and expressed under control of the 35S promoter. Cotransfection with a GUS reporter, which is driven by GAL4 upstream activating sequence (GAL‐UAS4:GUS), allows quantification of bZIP activation properties independent of their DNA binding (FIG-REF). Whereas group‐S1 members AtbZIP11, AtbZIP44 and AtbZIP2 showed significant activation capacity; AtbZIP53, AtbZIP1 and the group‐C members displayed almost no intrinsic activation (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] In order to study heterodimerisation of AtbZIP53, BD‐AtbZIP53 was individually coexpressed with GAL4 activation domain (AD) fusions of the bZIP heterodimerisation partners (FIG-REF). Similar to the results obtained in yeast, almost no AtbZIP53 homodimerisation and only weak interaction with the group‐S1 members AtbZIP2, AtbZIP11 and AtbZIP44 was observed (FIG-REF). A strong heterodimerisation of AtbZIP53 with the group‐C members AtbZIP10, AtbZIP25 and AtbZIP9 was detected. In contrast, interaction between AtbZIP53 and group‐C AtbZIP63 was less pronounced. Heterodimerisation might modulate the transactivation capacity of bZIP transcription factors. We therefore coexpressed BD‐AtbZIP53 with bZIP partners which have not been fused to the AD domain (FIG-REF). Strong reporter gene activation was obtained for AtbZIP53/AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP53/AtbZIP25 heterodimers. As neither AtbZIP53 nor group‐C bZIPs exhibit strong activation on their own (FIG-REF), these data indicate that specific heterodimerisation may act as a key mechanism to modulate transactivation properties in planta. This mechanism will be referred to as heterodimer‐induced transactivation (HIT). In order to analyse the HIT mechanism, the following control has been included into the experimental set‐up. Fusing a BD domain to the N‐terminus of the bZIP proteins might mask endogenous activation properties of the bZIP proteins analysed in FIG-REF. We therefore coexpressed BD‐AtbZIP53 with the other BD‐bZIP proteins which also lead to the synergistic reporter gene activation in the case of AtbZIP53/AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP53/AtbZIP25, respectively (data not shown). The HIT mechanism is not restricted to AtbZIP53/AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP53/AtbZIP25 heterodimers. A complete analysis of all group‐S1/C interactions, according to the set‐up described in FIG-REF, revealed that the HIT mechanism is a typical feature of distinct heterodimers (Supplementary Table S1). It is particularly observed between AtbZIP25, AtbZIP10 and most group‐S1 members. Moreover, HIT is also observed inside group‐C, as demonstrated for AtbZIP10/AtbZIP63. These data suggest that HIT is of general importance for the function of the group‐C and S bZIP factors. ProDH promoter analysis revealed an ACTCAT motif to be necessary and sufficient for hypo‐osmolarity‐induced gene activation (CITATION). To assess the significance of AtbZIP53 homo‐ or heterodimer participation in ACTCAT‐mediated transcriptional control, we transiently expressed AD‐bZIP proteins in Arabidopsis protoplasts in conjunction with a reporter vector containing this regulatory element. In this experimental system, activation of a (ACTCAT)2:GUS reporter should solely rely on the binding properties of the bZIP proteins and be independent of their intrinsic activation capacity. The results in FIG-REF show that all bZIP proteins tested are able to interact with this element, and demonstrate that AtbZIP53 binds more effectively the ACTCAT motif than group‐C bZIPs. The specificity of this interaction was studied by introducing mutations into the ACTCAT element. The use of a (ACTtta)2:GUS reporter resulted in a loss of activation for all bZIPs, confirming that the ACTCAT motif is a specific binding site for these proteins in planta (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] The results of the heterodimerisation assays prompted us to analyse whether ProDH is regulated by AtbZIP53‐containing heterodimers. We therefore coexpressed AtbZIP53 in combination with AD‐bZIP fusions of group‐S1 and C bZIPs (FIG-REF). As we observed for the GAL‐UAS supported transcription, synergistic enhancement of the ACTCAT‐mediated transcription was obtained by coexpression of AtbZIP53 and its group‐C heterodimerisation partners AtbZIP9, AtbZIP10, AtbZIP25 and AtbZIP63, respectively. In order to analyse the endogenous activation properties, the bZIP proteins were expressed without the AD domain (FIG-REF). Equal expression of the proteins was monitored by Western blot using an HA‐tag‐specific antibody (data not shown). Whereas expression of single bZIP proteins resulted in weak reporter activation, a significant synergistic activation was obtained with all AtbZIP53/group‐C heterodimers. Based on these data, a number of heterodimers seem to fulfil a partly redundant function in ACTCAT‐mediated transcription. [[FIGURE]] The data described above suggest that a complex network of heterodimers is involved in regulation of ProDH. To get further insight in this regulatory mechanism, we focused on AtbZIP53 and AtbZIP10, the two partners that show the highest degree of ACTCAT‐mediated reporter gene activation. By means of ChIP analysis we could demonstrate that ProDH is a direct target of both, AtbZIP53 (FIG-REF) as well as AtbZIP10 (Supplementary Figure S1). Furthermore, electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) confirmed that heterodimers can be formed on the ACTCAT motif in vitro (Supplementary Figure S2). A detailed experimental series was initiated in which the ratio of bZIP effector plasmids was altered. FIG-REF shows that the synergistic effect of AtbZIP53 and AtbZIP10 clearly depends on the ratio of the two heterodimerisation partners. Furthermore, the synergistic effect depends on the ZIP‐mediated heterodimerisation function. Disruption of the α‐helical structure in the AtbZIP53PP construct impairs activation of the reporter by AtbZIP53/AtbZIP10 (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] To verify the impact of heterodimerisation on reporter gene expression, similar experiments as described above were performed in protoplasts obtained from atbzip53 atbzip10 plants. For efficient reporter gene expression, both AtbZIP53 and AtbZIP10 are required (FIG-REF). All together, these data strongly suggest that AtbZIP53/AtbZIP10 heterodimers are regulating ACTCAT‐mediated ProDH transcription. Colocalisation of the bZIP partners in the same tissue is a prerequisite for heterodimerisation. Whereas transcription of AtbZIP53 is strongly induced by hypo‐osmolarity (FIG-REF), only slight induction can be obtained for AtbZIP10 (Supplementary Figure S3). Analysis of AtbZIP53 and AtbZIP10 promoter GUS reporter lines (ProAtbZIP53:GUS and ProAtbZIP10:GUS) revealed a partial overlap of expression patterns primarily in the meristematic tissues of the Arabidopsis plantlet. Strong enhancement of GUS activity after transfer from MS media to distilled water was found for both, ProAtbZIP53:GUS and ProAtbZIP10:GUS reporter lines (FIG-REF). In contrast, ProAtbZIP25:GUS lines do not show this induction, indicating that this bZIP transcription factor is not involved in this response. Coexpression of AtbZIP53 and AtbZIP10 was also observed in parts of the flower and seeds (data not shown) in which a ProProDH:GUS construct is strongly expressed (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] In conclusion, these data demonstrate that AtbZIP53 and AtbZIP10 colocalise and interact with high affinity. Moreover, protein availability, which is regulated by environmental and developmental cues, restricts heterodimer formation and ultimately controls target gene transcription (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! For protein isolation, protoplast preparation and ChIP, A. thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col‐O) was grown on soil under controlled environmental conditions at 16 h light/8 h dark cycles. To improve germination uniformity, plants were pretreated at 4°C for 2–4 days. Hypo‐osmolarity treatment was performed according to CITATION. Floral dip transformations were performed by using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains GVG3101 and wild‐type A. thaliana (ecotype Col‐0) (CITATION). Seeds of the T‐DNA insertion mutants atbzip10 (NASC ID: N606031) and atbzip53 (NASC ID: N569883) were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. Homozygous mutants were identified by PCR as described in (http://signal.salk.edu/tdnaprimers.2.html). AtbZIP53‐specific primers were 5′‐CTGCAGCTTAGGACAGCTCATCACCA‐3′ (AtbZIP53pGUSf) and 5′‐GTCGACCTCGTTGACTTTTTGACTTC‐3′ (AtbZIP53pGUSr), AtbZIP10‐specific primers were 5′‐TCTTCTCCATTGACGATTTCTC‐3′ (AtbZIP10for) and 5′‐TGATCTTCCGAGAAGCATCGG‐3′ (AtbZIP10rev), the T‐DNA‐specific primer was 5′‐TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG‐3′ (Lba1). Homozygous atbzip10 and atbzip53 T‐DNA insertion mutants were crossed and in the f2‐generation double mutants were identified by PCR. Standard DNA techniques have been described in CITATION. Plant RNA was isolated using TRIZOL Reagent (Life Technologies, Rockville, MD, USA), Northern analysis has been described in CITATION. Hybridisation probes were produced by PCR amplification from cDNA using specifically designed primers. ProDH: 5′‐TGGTCGGTCTTTGTCAGCAT‐3′ and 5′‐ATGGCAACCCGTCTTCTCCG‐3′; AtbZIP53: 5′‐CATACAAAGACACGAACAAATTGAA‐3′ and 5′‐GTGCTTGAGATGGTTGAAGAAATTA‐3′; actin8: 5′‐GCTGGATTCGCTGGAGATGA‐3′ and 5′‐AGGTCTCCATCTCTTGCTCG‐3′, respectively. A hybridisation probe for AtbZIP10 was obtained by digestion of pDONR201‐AtbZIP10 with Bsp1407I. Western analysis was described in CITATION using a polyclonal HA‐antibody (Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, CA, USA). Vector constructions are described in detail in Supplementary methods S1. ChIP was performed according to CITATION with modifications described in Supplementary methods S1. ProQuest® Y2H vectors pDEST22 and pDEST32 containing the different AtbZIP genes were transformed into the yeast strain MaV203 (Invitrogen, Karlsruhe, Germany) according to the protocol of CITATION. Handling of yeast cultures, plate growth assays and quantitative β‐galactosidase assays were performed as described in the Clontech Yeast Protocols Handbook (1996). Protoplast isolation and transformation was performed as described by CITATION. BiFC was performed in 6‐week‐old Nicotiana benthamiana plants after Agrobacterium‐mediated transient transformation according to CITATION. For analysis of the BiFC signal, a confocal microscope (Leica TCS SP2 AOBS) was applied. EMSAs were performed as described by CITATION. The oligonucleotides PRODHS (5′‐ATTCATCATCC ACTCAT CCT‐3′) and PRODHAS (5′‐AGATATGAAGG ATGAGT GGA‐3′) were used as dsDNA probe. Supplementary data are available at The EMBO Journal Online.
