!~ABS~! ARGONAUTE4 (AGO4) and RNA polymerase IV (Pol IV) are required for DNA methylation guided by 24 nucleotide small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) in Arabidopsis thaliana . Here we show that AGO4 localizes to nucleolus-associated bodies along with the Pol IV subunit NRPD1b; the small nuclear RNA (snRNA) binding protein SmD3; and two markers of Cajal bodies, trimethylguanosine-capped snRNAs and the U2 snRNA binding protein U2B″″. AGO4 interacts with the C-terminal domain of NRPD1b, and AGO4 protein stability depends on upstream factors that synthesize siRNAs. AGO4 is also found, along with the DNA methyltransferase DRM2, throughout the nucleus at presumed DNA methylation target sites. Cajal bodies are conserved sites for the maturation of ribonucleoprotein complexes. Our results suggest a function for Cajal bodies as a center for the assembly of an AGO4/NRPD1b/siRNA complex, facilitating its function in RNA-directed gene silencing at target loci.
!~RES~! We constructed an N-terminally epitope-tagged AGO4 transgene by engineering four copies of the Myc tag into a genomic complementing fragment of AGO4 driven by its native promoter. The functionality of myc-AGO4 was confirmed by its ability to restore silencing of the endogenous SUP locus in the ago4-1 clk-st mutant line ( CITATION ). First-generation myc-AGO4 -transformed ago4-1 clk-st plants displayed highly penetrant restoration of a silenced SUP floral phenotype of extra stamens and unfused carpels, indicating that the transgene is functional ( CITATION A). As a second verification of functionality, we showed that Myc-AGO4 restored RNA-directed asymmetric DNA methylation at MEA-ISR in the ago4-1 mutant using a DNA methylation cutting assay ( CITATION ) ( CITATION B). Western blot analysis of crude protein extract generated from a myc-AGO4 plant showed a single band close to the predicted size of 110 kDa and no crossreactivity with other plant proteins ( CITATION C). AGO4 was previously shown to be a nuclear-localized protein in transient expression assays in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves ( CITATION ). We utilized c-Myc antibodies and fluorescence microscopy to examine AGO4 subnuclear localization when the protein was expressed from its native promoter. We identified two key localization patterns. First, AGO4 displayed a euchromatic localization throughout the nucleus that showed lower signal in DAPI staining chromocenters ( CITATION D). Chromocenters are highly condensed, heterochromatic DNA that contain centromeric and pericentromeric repeat sequences ( CITATION ). The exclusion of AGO4 from chromocenters is consistent with previous data demonstrating that ago4-1 did not affect silencing at centromeric repeats or the pericentromeric Ta3 locus ( CITATION ). Instead, AGO4 is important for silencing at DNA methylated loci found in otherwise euchromatic regions such as SUP and FWA , both of which are localized away from chromocenters ( CITATION ). Second, immunofluorescence analysis showed that AGO4 localized to a distinct body either adjacent to or within the nucleolus ( CITATION D; see also CITATION in the CITATION available with this article online). In a small fraction of nuclei, we observed a second or third AGO4 body, usually associated with additional nucleoli (8%, n = 168) (see examples in figures and CITATION ). To test whether the AGO4 body might correspond to one of the chromocenters, we performed DNA fluorescence in situ hybridization (DNA-FISH) with a probe that recognizes the 180 base pair centromeric repeat sequences ( CEN ) and hybridizes to all of the chromocenters ( CITATION ). We found that the AGO4 nuclear bodies did not colocalize with centromeric repeats ( CITATION E), suggesting that they are not chromocenters. The ago4-1 mutant shows reduced histone H3 lysine 9 dimethylation (H3K9me2) at AGO4 target loci such as SUP and AtSN1 ( CITATION ). To test whether the AGO4 body might be a site of concentrated H3K9me2 targeting, we stained nuclei with an antibody specific for H3K9me2. The AGO4 body did not stain with H3K9me2 ( CITATION A). Furthermore, localization of Myc-AGO4 and H3K9me2 were anticorrelated, likely reflecting the fact that most H3K9me2 resides in chromocenters ( CITATION ) while a lower amount of H3K9me2 is found at scattered silent loci in euchromatin ( CITATION ). We also examined the colocalization of AGO4 with trimethylated lysine 27 of histone H3 (H3K27me3), a mark of genes silenced by Polycomb group proteins that reside outside of chromocenters ( CITATION ) ( CITATION A). We found that the AGO4 body did not stain with H3K27me3 and that the AGO4 signal outside of the nuclear body was generally similar to that of H3K27me3, in that both were concentrated outside of DAPI staining chromocenters. To test whether the localization of AGO4 is dependent on upstream RNAi components, we crossed Myc-AGO4 into homozygous dcl3 , rdr2 , or dcl3 rdr2 double-mutant backgrounds. By fluorescence microscopy, both the nuclear body and euchromatic staining of AGO4 were dramatically reduced in rdr2 and dcl3 rdr2 double mutants ( CITATION A; CITATION ). For dcl3 , 61% of nuclei displayed a dramatic decrease in AGO4 levels, while the other 39% showed wild-type AGO4 levels (n = 70). It has been demonstrated previously that dcl3 has weaker effects than rdr2 on siRNA levels and DNA methylation ( CITATION ). Thus, the difference between the two dcl3 populations might be explained by either stochastic or cell-type-specific redundancy with other DCL genes ( CITATION ). To determine whether the decrease of nuclear AGO4 was due to overall protein loss or a defect in AGO4 nuclear localization, a semiquantitative Western blot of crude protein extract from mutant plants was used to measure AGO4 levels ( CITATION B). Myc-AGO4 protein levels were decreased moderately in dcl3 and severely in rdr2 and dcl3 rdr2 double mutants. These decreases were not due to transcriptional repression of the transgene since myc-AGO4 transcripts were at similar levels in the various mutant and wild-type backgrounds ( CITATION C). In contrast to the RNA silencing mutants, a mutation in the DNA methyltransferase gene DRM2 , which likely acts downstream of AGO4, had no effect on Myc-AGO4 localization or protein level ( CITATION D and 3B). These results suggest that the upstream components DCL3 and RDR2 are needed for stabilizing AGO4. Since DRM2 is a downstream component in the AGO4-dependent RdDM pathway, it is possible that DRM2 might have the same localization pattern as AGO4. To investigate this, a 9× Myc-tagged genomic DRM2 controlled by its native promoter was generated. We demonstrated functionality of the transgene by showing that it restored DNA methylation at MEA-ISR in a drm2 mutant ( CITATION E). By fluorescence microscopy, DRM2 showed a euchromatic localization that was reduced in DAPI staining chromocenters in a manner analogous to AGO4. However, unlike Myc-AGO4, DRM2-myc was not found in a distinct body near the nucleolus. These results are consistent with the idea that DRM2 acts with AGO4 at RdDM target loci but not in the AGO4 body. We previously showed that a mutation in NRPD1a ( sde4 ) blocked de novo DNA methylation of a newly introduced FWA transgene, resulting in overexpression of the transgene and a late-flowering phenotype ( CITATION ). This same defect in establishment of DNA methylation was seen in ago4-1 , dcl3 , and rdr2 mutants. We asked whether NRPD1b was also involved in the AGO4-dependent de novo DNA methylation pathway by subjecting the nrpd1b mutant to the same de novo methylation assay. Similar to nrpd1a , nrpd1b was unable to silence the FWA transgene, as indicated by a late-flowering phenotype when compared to wild-type ( CITATION A). This result suggests that both forms of Pol IV (NRPD1a and NRPD1b) are involved in AGO4-dependent de novo DNA methylation. Because both nrpd1a and nrpd1b phenocopied ago4-1 in the FWA transformation assay, it is possible that AGO4 might be functioning directly with Pol IV. To determine whether AGO4 is acting in concert with NRPD1a or NRPD1b, localization of NRPD1a or NRPD1b was examined in Myc-AGO4 nuclei using specific antibodies to NRPD1a or NRPD1b ( CITATION ). By fluorescence microscopy, NRPD1a did not colocalize with AGO4 ( CITATION B). Although NRPD1a showed localization to small speckles in the nucleus, none of these NRPD1a dots corresponded to the AGO4 body. In contrast, NRPD1b localized to the same nucleolar bodies as AGO4 did ( CITATION C; CITATION ). This result demonstrates that the nucleolar body is not an AGO4-exclusive phenomenon and is relevant to other RNAi components involved in RNA-directed DNA methylation. We also tested the effect of mutations in NRPD1a and NRPD1b on AGO4 localization. Similarly to rdr2 and dcl3 mutants, the Myc-AGO4 signal in nuclei was dramatically reduced in the nrpd1a mutant ( CITATION D). In contrast, nrpd1b had no effect on AGO4 nuclear localization patterns, either at the AGO4 body or outside of chromocenters ( CITATION E). Overall, these results are consistent with NRPD1a's acting upstream of AGO4 and NRPD1b's acting either at the same step or downstream of AGO4. To determine whether AGO4 might form stable high-molecular-weight complexes with other proteins, we performed gel filtration chromatography with whole-cell lysates from Myc-AGO4 plants. We observed that, while the majority of total AGO4 protein eluted at the size predicted for a monomer, a significant fraction of AGO4 was present in two high-molecular-weight complexes of around 280 kDa and greater than 480 kDa ( CITATION A). The colocalization of NRPD1b with Myc-AGO4 suggested the possibility that these proteins might interact. Consistent with this notion, we found that the elution profile of NRPD1b correlated with the high-molecular-weight AGO4 complexes ( CITATION A). To test whether NRPD1b and AGO4 are stably associated, we performed coimmunoprecipitation experiments. We found that antibodies specific for NRPD1b coprecipitated Myc-AGO4 ( CITATION B). Antibodies to NRPD1a, however, did not coprecipitate Myc-AGO4. One structural difference between NRPD1a and NRPD1b is the presence of a large reiterated C-terminal domain (CTD) in NRPD1b ( CITATION ). A reiterated CTD (of different sequence) is also found in the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II (RPB1), where it serves as a binding site for other proteins, and its phosphorylation is involved in the transition of RNA polymerase II from a preinitiation state to elongation ( CITATION ). We therefore tested whether AGO4 might interact with the NRPD1b CTD, in either its phosphorylated or unphosphorylated forms, by testing the ability of bacterially produced CTD-glutathione S-transferase fusion protein to capture Myc-AGO4 from crude protein extracts ( CITATION C). We found that AGO4, but not DCL3, NRPD1a, or RPB1, bound strongly to the NRPD1b CTD. In vitro phosphorylation of the GST-CTD neither enhanced nor inhibited binding to Myc-AGO4. These data, together with the coimmunoprecipitation and colocalization results, strongly suggest that AGO4 and NRPD1b interact with one another. AGO4 is involved in DNA methylation at the rDNA genes ( CITATION ; C.S.P., unpublished data), and immunoprecipitated AGO4 contains 45S and 5S siRNAs, which also localize to the AGO4 body (see CITATION in this issue of Cell ). We therefore examined whether the AGO4 nuclear body may represent a concentrated localization of AGO4 at the 45S or 5S rDNA loci. By DNA-FISH analysis, the AGO4 body did not colocalize with the nucleolar organizer regions (NORs), which contain the 45S rDNA genes, or with the 5S rDNA genes ( CITATION B; CITATION ) ( CITATION ). These findings suggest that the AGO4 body is likely not a major site of RNA-directed DNA methylation at AGO4 target loci, which is also consistent with the fact that DRM2 is not enriched at the AGO4 body. To learn more about the nature of the AGO4 nuclear body, we searched for proteins that display the same subnuclear localization as AGO4. A recent study showed localization of a large number of nucleolar-associated proteins in Arabidopsis ( CITATION ). Several of these proteins, including an Arabidopsis homolog of the small nuclear RNA (snRNA) binding protein SmD3, displayed localization to a body in or near the nucleolus ( CITATION ). SmD3 is a core protein component of the U1, U2, U4, and U5 small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs), which are central components of the spliceosome ( CITATION ). We transformed Myc-AGO4 plants with GFP-SmD3 ( CITATION ) and generated a stable line expressing both fusion proteins. We observed a nearly perfect colocalization of GFP-SmD3 and Myc-AGO4, both predominantly labeling a nucleolar or perinucleolar body ( CITATION A; CITATION ). The Cajal body is a well-studied nuclear compartment that is involved in the processing and maturation of several types of ribonucleoprotein complexes ( CITATION ). For instance, snRNPs are posttranscriptionally modified and associate with specific proteins in the Cajal body before leaving the Cajal body to participate in splicing ( CITATION ). Because of the localization of AGO4 with SmD3 (a putative component of snRNPs), we hypothesized that the AGO4 body might be a Cajal body. This hypothesis was supported by our finding that the AGO4 body stained poorly with DAPI (Cajal bodies contain little DNA [ CITATION ]) and by previous work showing that Cajal bodies in Arabidopsis and many other plants are often associated with nucleoli (either perinucleolar or within nucleoli) ( CITATION ). We utilized two antibodies that recognize reliable markers of plant Cajal bodies, the 5′ 2,2,7-trimethylguanosine (TMG) cap of snRNAs and the U2-specific snRNA binding protein U2B″″. snRNAs are TMG modified in the cytoplasm and are then imported to the nucleus, where they temporarily accumulate in Cajal bodies ( CITATION ). TMG caps are found on Arabidopsis snRNAs ( CITATION ), and TMG-capped snRNAs are markers of Cajal bodies in Arabidopsis and other plant species ( CITATION ). The U2B″″ protein specifically associates with Arabidopsis TMG-capped U2 snRNA ( CITATION ) and colocalizes with TMG-capped snRNAs and with the core snRNA binding protein SmB at Arabidopsis Cajal bodies ( CITATION ). U2B″″ has been used in studies of the behavior of Cajal bodies in Arabidopsis and other plants ( CITATION ) and colocalizes in Arabidopsis with an antibody recognizing coilin, a protein specifically found in Cajal bodies ( CITATION ). We tested whether AGO4 and SmD3 colocalize with these Cajal body markers. Nuclei from GFP-SmD3 plants were stained with monoclonal antibodies against TMG and U2B″″ ( CITATION B and 6C). We observed a nearly perfect colocalization of GFP fluorescence with both TMG-capped snRNAs and U2B″″ ( CITATION ). To examine the colocalization of Myc-AGO4 with Cajal body markers, we utilized a Myc polyclonal antibody together with monoclonal TMG and U2B″″ antibodies ( CITATION D and 6E). Although the polyclonal Myc antibody gave a somewhat higher background than the monoclonal Myc antibody used throughout the rest of this study, the AGO4 nuclear body was still clearly evident. We observed a nearly perfect colocalization of Myc-AGO4 with both the TMG snRNAs and U2B″″ signals ( CITATION D and 6E; CITATION ). These findings strongly suggest that AGO4 bodies correspond to Cajal bodies. To determine whether upstream RNA silencing mutants affect the integrity of Cajal bodies, we tested the localization of TMG snRNAs and U2B″″ in the nrpd1a and rdr2 mutants. Neither mutant showed reduced staining of Cajal body markers ( CITATION ). Thus, while these mutants eliminate AGO4 association with Cajal bodies, they do not disrupt the basic integrity of the Cajal body or the localization of snRNAs or U2B″″.
!~MM~! AGO4 containing 3.7 kb of endogenous promoter was amplified from BAC clone T20P8 and subcloned into pCAMBIA1300a. ApaI and BamHI restriction sites were engineered immediately upstream of the AGO4 start codon, and four copies of c-Myc were inserted in-frame. Agrobacterium strain ASE was used to transform ago4-1 clk-st plants using hygromycin selection ( CITATION ). Several lines were analyzed by Western blot and immunofluorescence, and all showed similar levels of Myc-AGO4 expression, suggesting that genomic position effects were minimal. The DRM2 gene and flanking intergenic regions were amplified from BAC clone T15N1, cloned into pCR4 (Invitrogen), and sequenced. NheI and BamHI sites were introduced by site-directed mutagenesis, and a 9× Myc epitope was inserted just before the DRM2 stop codon. Myc-tagged DRM2 was then cloned into the pCAMBIA1300 and transformed, selected, and analyzed as above. The plasmid containing GFP-SmD3 was a gift from Peter J. Shaw ( CITATION ) and was transformed using Agrobacterium strain AGL1. The mutants used in this study were previously described: dcl3-1 and rdr2-1 ( CITATION ), drm2 ( CITATION ), and nrpd1b-1 and nrpd1b-2 ( CITATION ). The T-DNA mutant nrpd1a (SALK 143437) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. Genomic DNA was digested with FokI and subjected to sodium bisulfite treatment as described ( CITATION ). MEA-ISR was amplified by PCR using primers 5′-AAAGTGGTTGTAGTTTATGAAAGGTTTTAT-3′ and 5′-CTTAAAAAATTTTCAACTCATTTTTAAAAAA-3′. PCR products were digested with BamHI and resolved by agarose gel electrophoresis. Presence of a full-length (∼360 bp) or digested (∼270 bp) PCR product indicated the absence or presence of DNA methylation, respectively. Preparation of nuclei without flow sorting was performed as described ( CITATION ). Primary antibodies used included mAb Myc (1:200, Upstate), polyclonal Myc (1:100, Upstate), H3K9me2 (1:200, Upstate), H3K27me3 (1:400, Upstate), NRPD1a (1:200), NRPD1b (1:100), mAb 4G3 (anti-U2B″″) (1:100, gift from Gregory Matera), and mAb K-121 (anti-TMG cap) (1:100, Calbiochem). Secondary anti-mouse fluorescein (Abcam), anti-rabbit rhodamine (Jackson ImmunoResearch), anti-mouse rhodamine (Abcam), anti-mouse Alexa Fluor 488 (Invitrogen), anti-mouse FITC (Abcam), and anti-rabbit Alexa Fluor 555 (Invitrogen) were used at 1:200 dilution. Vectashield mounting medium containing DAPI (Vector Laboratories) was added to nuclei to visualize DNA and prevent fading. Nuclear protein localization was captured at 100× magnification using the Zeiss Axioskop 2 microscope with the Zeiss Axiocam HRC color digital camera system or the Zeiss AxioImager Z1 microscope with the Hamamatsu Orca-ER camera. Images were analyzed using Zeiss AxioVision software and processed using Adobe Photoshop (Adobe Systems). RNA was isolated and cDNA was generated as previously described ( CITATION ). Real-time PCR amplification was performed using SYBR Green QPCR Master Mix (Stratagene). Data were analyzed using the Mx3000P software (Stratagene). Flowers (0.3 g) were frozen in liquid nitrogen; ground into powder; homogenized with 1 ml of protein extraction buffer (50 mM Tris-Cl [pH 7.5], 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM MgCl 2 , 10% glycerol, 0.1% NP-40) containing fresh DTT (2 mM), PMSF (1 mM), pepstatin (0.7 μg/ml), MG132 (10 μg/ml), and protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche); and centrifuged twice (13,000 rpm at 4°C). Equal total protein amounts were resolved on an 8% SDS polyacrylamide gel and subjected to Western blotting using a Myc monoclonal antibody (Upstate). Cell lysates were prepared as described in the previous section using 0.7 g of flowers and 2 ml of protein extraction buffer. Equal total protein amounts were precleared with Protein A agarose beads (Pierce), followed by anti-NRPD1a or anti-NRPD1b incubation (1:250). Protein complexes were captured with Protein A agarose beads, washed five times with extraction buffer, boiled in SDS sample buffer, resolved on an 8% SDS polyacrylamide gel, and subjected to Western blotting. Myc-AGO4 lysates from flowers were prepared as described in the previous section. The lysates were additionally filtered through a 0.2 μm filter. Four milligrams of total protein was loaded onto a Superdex 200 10/300 GL column (Amersham), and 250 μl fractions were collected at 0.5 ml/min. To determine complex sizes, a standard curve was generated using the calibration proteins apoferritin (480 kDa), γ-globulin (160 kDa), bovine serum albumin (67 kDa), chymotrypsinogen (24 kDa), and cytochrome c (13 kDa). The NRPD1b CTD (from amino acid 1410 to 1874) was amplified from reverse-transcribed cDNA, cloned into the overexpression plasmid pET-41a(+) (Novagen), and expressed in E. coli BL21. Expression was induced for 3 hr with 1 mM IPTG in cells grown at 37°C to an OD 600 of 0.6. Cells were disrupted using a French press, and the GST-fusion proteins were purified by glutathione Sepharose 4B (Amersham Biosciences) affinity chromatography. The GST-CTD fusion protein was in vitro phosphorylated using casein kinase (New England Biolabs) as previously described for the RNA Pol II-derived GST-CTD fusion protein ( CITATION ). Phosphorylation of the CTD was confirmed by electrophoresis in an SDS-polyacrylamide gel in which the phosphorylated form is indicated by its retarded mobility. Unphosphorylated and phosphorylated GST-CTD and GST proteins were immobilized onto 20 μl of glutathione Sepharose 4B, and the coated beads were washed and equilibrated with IP buffer. A total of 150 μl of flower whole-cell extract was applied to the GST-CTD beads and mixed for 3 hr at 4°C on a rotating wheel. The beads were then washed three times with IP buffer, and the bound protein (pellet) was eluted with 60 μl of SDS-PAGE sample buffer. All samples including the unbound proteins (supernatant) were separated by 10% SDS-PAGE and subjected to Western blotting. DNA-FISH using 5S or 45S rRNA gene probes labeled with biotin-dUTP or digoxigenin-dUTP was performed as described ( CITATION ). Digoxigenin-labeled probes were detected using mouse anti-digoxigenin antibody (1:250, Roche) followed by rabbit anti-mouse antibody conjugated to Alexa 488 (Molecular Probes). Biotin-labeled probes were detected using goat anti-biotin conjugated with avidin (1:200, Vector Laboratories) followed by streptavidin-Alexa 543 (Molecular Probes). DNA was counterstained with DAPI (1 μg/ml) in Vectashield. For dual protein/nucleic-acid localization experiments, slides were first subjected to immunofluorescence and then postfixed in 4% formaldehyde/PBS followed by DNA-FISH. Nuclei were examined using a Nikon Eclipse E80i epifluorescence microscope, with images collected using a Photometrics Coolsnap ES Mono digital camera. The images were pseudocolored, merged, and processed using Adobe Photoshop (Adobe Systems).
