!~ABS~! Repression of photomorphogenesis in Arabidopsis thaliana requires activity of the COP9 signalosome (CSN), CDD, and COP1 complexes, but how these three complexes work in concert to accomplish this important developmental switch has remained unknown. Here, we demonstrate that Arabidopsis CULLIN4 (CUL4) associates with the CDD complex and a common catalytic subunit to form an active E3 ubiquitin ligase both in vivo and in vitro. The partial loss of function of CUL4 resulted in a constitutive photomorphogenic phenotype with respect to morphogenesis and light-regulated gene expression. Furthermore, CUL4 exhibits a synergistic genetic interaction with COP10 and DET1. Therefore, this CUL4-based E3 ligase is essential for the repression of photomorphogenesis. This CUL4-based E3 ligase appears to associate physically with COP1 E3 ligase and positively regulates the COP1-dependent degradation of photomorphogenesis-promoting transcription factors, whereas the CSN controls the biochemical modification of CUL4 essential for E3 activity. Thus, this study suggests a biochemical activity connection between CSN and CDD complexes in their cooperation with COP1 in orchestrating the repression of photomorphogenesis.
!~RES~! Analysis of the CUL4 mRNA sequence revealed two potential in-frame translation start sites that yield identical proteins, except that one is 50 amino acids longer than the other at the N-terminal end (designated CUL4-L and CUL4-S, respectively). The two forms of CUL4 were differentiated using polyclonal antibodies raised against two distinct antigens. Anti-CUL4(N) was generated against a 19–amino acid peptide present only in the CUL4-L N terminus, and anti-CUL4(C) was generated against the most C-terminal 143 amino acids shared by both the CUL4-L and CUL4-S forms (Figure 1A ). Immunoblot analysis using anti-CUL4(N) antibodies detected two CUL4-specific bands in both the wild type and a partial loss-of-function csn5a-2 mutant, which should correspond to the rubylated and unrubylated CUL4-L proteins, based on ratio changes in the csn5a-2 mutant. As expected, anti-CUL4(C) detected four CUL4-specific bands, which should correspond to rubylated and unrubylated CUL4-L and CUL4-S (Figure 1B). This result suggests that CUL4 has two translated forms, and both of them are present in both the rubylated and unrubylated states in Arabidopsis. Although it is not clear whether there is a functional difference between the two CUL4 forms, they both contain the two structural domains of cullins as well as the CUL4-specific N-terminal motif involved in DDB1 binding, suggesting that the two forms share the same known biochemical properties (CITATION). In most of the subsequent studies, we used anti-CUL4(C) to detect all CUL4 protein forms in Arabidopsis, with CUL4-L and CUL4-S collectively designated CUL4. The CUL4-L version of the open reading frame (ORF) was used in all chimeric fusion protein constructs. [[FIGURE]] As a first step to investigate the role of the CUL4 protein in plant development, the expression pattern of CUL4 in different tissues was surveyed by immunoblot analysis and compared with the known expression pattern of CUL1 (Figure 1C). We found that the CUL4 protein is present in relatively high abundance in all tissues examined except for the silique. Both onion (Allium cepa) transient and stable Arabidopsis transgenic assays with a green fluorescent protein (GFP)–labeled CUL4 fusion protein revealed that GFP-CUL4 was always localized in the nucleus (Figure 1D). To test whether Arabidopsis CUL4 is capable of forming E3 ubiquitin ligases as reported in other organisms, we cloned CUL4 into a yeast two-hybrid assay vector and observed its interactions with predicted components using a known CUL1-specific binding protein, ASK1, as a control. As shown in Figure 2A , CUL4 interacts with RBX1, DDB1, and COP10 but not with the CUL1-specific adaptor protein ASK1 in yeast, supporting the possible formation of a CUL4-RBX1-CDD E3 ligase complex. [[FIGURE]] Specific in vivo association of CUL4 and RBX1 was then investigated by immunoprecipitation in two stable transgenic lines, one expressing tandem affinity purification (TAP)–tagged RBX1 (TAP-RBX1) and the other expressing tagged ASK1 (TAP-ASK1) as a control. When TAP-RBX1 and TAP-ASK1 were immunoprecipitated using IgG beads from transgenic plant extracts, CUL4 coimmunoprecipitated with TAP-RBX1 but not with TAP-ASK1 (Figure 2B). This result suggests that CUL4 associates with RBX1 but not ASK1 in Arabidopsis. We also investigated CUL4 association with COP10 by coimmunoprecipitation using anti-flag antibodies to flag-CUL4, as our anti-CUL4 antibodies were not suitable for immunoprecipitation assays. We constructed a chimeric gene encoding the CUL4 protein with a triple FLAG epitope tag fused at the N terminus (flag-CUL4) driven by a constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. After introducing the construct into Arabidopsis in a wild-type background, a transgenic line expressing a high level of the flag-CUL4 fusion protein (Figure 2C, line 10) was selected for immunoprecipitation experiments. The flag-CUL4 showed an association with full-length 21-kD COP10 from the transgenic plant extracts, whereas no interaction with the partially degraded 16-kD COP10 form was observed (Figure 2D). This finding suggests that only intact COP10 interacts with CUL4 in Arabidopsis, although the truncated form retains the ability to form the CDD complex (CITATION). Reverse coimmunoprecipitation using flag-COP10 (full-length) transgenic plant extracts (CITATION) also confirmed that CUL4 associates with flag-COP10 (Figure 2E). The reciprocity between CUL4 and COP10 coimmunoprecipitation suggests that CUL4 associates with the CDD complex, because endogenous COP10 is largely associated with DDB1 and DET1 within the CDD complex in vivo. Because CUL4 is capable of interacting directly with DDB1 and COP10 in our yeast two-hybrid assay, the CUL4 association with the CDD complex in vivo may be mediated by the direct interaction of CUL4 with COP10 and the DDB1 subunits (Figure 3H ). [[FIGURE]] Several assays were performed to probe the ubiquitination activity of this putative CUL4-containing E3 ligase. The component complexes were reconstituted by expressing and purifying the glutathione-S-transferase (GST)–fused RBX1 and CUL4 core complex and the CDD complex separately using the baculovirus/insect cell coexpression system. In the case of the CDD complex, we have made baculovirus samples that overexpress Arabidopsis GST-COP10, DDB1, and DET1 in insect cells. The expression of COP10 as a GST fusion protein allowed for a one-step glutathione affinity purification of the reconstituted complex. As shown in Figure 3A, coexpression of GST-COP10 together with both DDB1 and DET1 produced a soluble CDD complex, which could be affinity-purified from insect cell lysate. By contrast, when either DDB1 or DET1 was individually coexpressed with GST-COP10, neither associated with the GST-COP10 to form a subcomplex using the same one-step purification, suggesting that DDB1 and DET1 are both required for the formation of a soluble complex with COP10. After GST was cleaved off from COP10 within the reconstituted CDD complex, we were able to isolate an essentially native-like CDD complex by size exclusion chromatography (Figures 3B and 3C). The three proteins in the CDD complex appear to be in a 1:1:1 ratio. Furthermore, to test whether CUL4, RBX1, COP10, DDB1, and DET1 can form an E3 complex, CUL4 and RBX1 were coexpressed in insect cells with RBX1 fused to GST. After glutathione affinity purification and thrombin cleavage of GST, the RBX1-CUL4 complex was mixed with purified recombinant CDD complex. This mixture was subsequently applied to a Superdex 200 size exclusion column. The five proteins were all eluted together as a monodispersive peak larger than either the CDD or CUL4-RBX1 complex. The five proteins in the reconstituted complex appear to be in a 1:1:1:1:1 molar ratio (Figures 3D and 3E). However, when COP1 was coexpressed with DDB1, DET1, and COP10, no association of COP1 with the soluble reconstituted CDD complex was detected (data not shown), indicating that COP1 is not an integrated part of this CUL4-RBX1-CDD E3 ligase complex. To investigate whether the CDD complex can enhance the CUL4-RBX1 core E3 function, we performed an in vitro ubiquitination assay using recombinant CDD and CUL4-RBX1 complexes purified from insect cells and bacterially expressed Arabidopsis Ubc8, a protein closely related to Sc Ubc4/5 and Hs UbcH5A/B/C that has E2 function. Because the potential physiological substrate(s) of an Arabidopsis CUL4-RBX1 E3 remains unknown, we monitored polyubiquitin chain assembly in the reaction mixture. As shown in Figure 3F, the GST-RBX1-CUL4 complex was able to promote polyubiquitin chain formation in the presence of Arabidopsis Ubc8, detected as a ladder of ubiquitin-containing bands on an SDS-PAGE gel. Parallel immunoblot analysis using anti-GST antibody further confirmed that most of the ubiquitin chains were assembled onto GST-RBX1 (Figure 3G). Strikingly, addition of the purified recombinant CDD complex markedly enhanced the autoubiquitination of the GST-RBX1-CUL4 complex, indicating that the CDD complex can effectively increase the ubiquitination activity of the CUL4-RBX1-E2 system. This assay also confirmed that CUL4-RBX1 can form a rudimentary E3 ligase (Figure 3H). We then investigated whether or not the known cullin regulators CSN and CAND1 (for Cullin-Associated and Neddylation-Dissociated1) could interact with Arabidopsis CUL4 using the same yeast two-hybrid assay. As shown in Figure 4A , CUL4 interacts with CAND1 and the CSN5, CSN3, CSN8, and CSN4 subunits of the CSN in yeast. [[FIGURE]] The implied association of the CSN with the CUL4-containing E3 ligase in Arabidopsis was then tested by coimmunoprecipitation assays containing flag-CUL4 and representative subunits of the CSN. Using transgenic plant extracts, we were able to detect the presence of these CSN subunits in the flag-CUL4 precipitate (Figure 4B). This result confirmed CUL4's association with the CSN in Arabidopsis. To test for a possible association of CAND1 and CUL4 in vivo, coimmunoprecipitation experiments were performed using a flag-CAND1 transgenic line (CITATION). As shown in Figure 4C, immunoprecipitation of flag-CAND1 using anti-flag antibody can specifically pull down CUL4 in the precipitate. This result suggests that, as in mammals, CAND1 can associate with CUL4 in Arabidopsis. At the same time, the CSN could not be pulled down by flag-CAND1. This finding indicates that CSN and CAND1 may bind CUL4 in a mutually exclusive manner, consistent with previous evidence given for CUL1, CSN, and CAND1 interactions in mammalian cells (CITATION). It has been proposed that the RUB/NEDD8 modification of CUL1 (rubylation) acts as a positive regulator of E3 ligase activity, enhancing E2 recruitment and ubiquitination of the substrate. In the case of CUL4, rubylation and derubylation have also been shown to be required for CUL4's normal function in mammalian cells (CITATION). To test whether Arabidopsis CUL4 is covalently modified by RUB and to investigate a possible role for the CSN as well as the CDD and COP1 complexes and CAND1 in this modification, we examined the RUB modification status of CUL4 in protein extracts from the representative csn, cand1, cop10, cop1, and det1 mutants (Figure 4D). In the weak mutant csn5a-2, some of the small bands shifted to the position of the big bands, whereas in the csn null mutants csn1-1 (fus6-1) and csn3-1 (fus11-1), all of the cellular CUL4 showed up as a broad larger band. It is likely that the upper broad band contains a mixture of the rubylated CUL4-L and CUL4-S as a result of the low gel resolution. This demonstrates conclusively that CUL4 is subject to reversible modification by RUB similar to the other cullins. In cand1-1, cop10-1, det1-1, and cop1-6 mutants, CUL4's rubylation status is similar to that in wild-type Arabidopsis, implying that CAND1 and the CDD and COP1 complexes are not directly involved in CUL4 RUB modification. If the CDD complex acts through the CUL4-RBX1-CDD E3 ligase to achieve its repression of photomorphogenesis, it is plausible that CUL4 reduction or loss of function would result in a constitutive photomorphogenic phenotype similar to that of mutations in the CDD complex components COP10 and DET1. As a first step to test this notion, we introduced the flag-fused CUL4 ectopic expression transgene and CUL4 RNA interference (RNAi) constructs under the control of 35S promoters into wild-type Arabidopsis to generate stable transgenic plants with altered CUL4 protein levels. Interestingly, 10 of the 18 flag-CUL4 transgenic lines we obtained exhibited varying degrees of the constitutive photomorphogenic phenotype in their T2 and subsequent progeny, with opening and expansion of cotyledons as well as a variation in the length of the hypocotyls when grown in the dark (Figures 2C and 5A ). When grown in the light, these same lines yielded hyperphotomorphogenic seedlings with high levels of anthocyanin, similar to the pleiotropic cop/det/fus mutants (Figure 5B). We also obtained a large number of constitutive photomorphogenic seedlings in the primary screen of constitutive CUL4 RNAi transgenic plants in the T1 generation (Figures 5A and 5B). However, these RNAi seedlings were lethal after the seedling stage and all failed to produce seeds. [[FIGURE]] Immunoblot analysis was used to examine CUL4 protein levels in the 35S:flag-CUL4 transgenic lines with or without a cop-like phenotype. As shown in Figure 2C, all 10 lines expressing a cop-like phenotype (such as lines 1, 2, 7, and 8) have reduced levels of CUL4 (the endogenous CUL4 together with the flag-CUL4 fusion protein). All of the lines lacking a cop-like phenotype expressed the endogenous CUL4 together with a flag-CUL4 fusion protein at approximately the endogenous CUL4 levels in wild-type Arabidopsis (such as lines 10 and 13). This correlation of the cop-like phenotype and reduced CUL4 protein level was maintained in the subsequent generation, with some progeny exhibiting higher CUL4 abundance and loss of the cop-like phenotype. Thus, the cop-like phenotype seems to be a consequence of transgene-mediated cosuppression of CUL4, and lines with this phenotype were designated CUL4 cosuppression (cul4cs) lines. Changes in protein abundance in these transgenic lines appear to be limited to CUL4, because the levels of CUL1 and other tested proteins were unchanged and independent of the cop-like phenotype (Figure 2C). We further examined the effect of CUL4 cosuppression on light-inducible gene expression in dark-grown cul4cs seedlings. The mRNA levels of four representative light-regulated nucleus- and plastid-encoded genes were examined by RNA gel blot analysis. As shown in Figure 5C, these four representative genes are all expressed at higher levels in dark-grown cul4cs seedlings compared with their wild-type counterparts, similar to the cop1-4 mutants. This result indicates that, as in the cop/det/fus mutations, inhibition of CUL4 function also leads to constitutive expression of light-inducible genes in darkness. To further substantiate the functional role of CUL4 in repressing photomorphogenic development, we tested anticipated genetic interactions between CUL4 and COP10 and DET1. Therefore, we introduced the cosuppressing trait cul4cs (Figure 2C, line 2) into cop10-4 and det1-1 mutants, both of which are nonlethal and weak alleles. Remarkably, the dark-grown double mutants cul4cs cop10-4 and cul4cs det1-1 have a much more exaggerated photomorphogenic phenotype than either of their parental single mutants (Figure 5D). In the case of cul4cs det1-1, the double mutant phenotypes essentially mimic those of the det1 null mutants. These data strongly suggest that CUL4 works together with COP10 and DET1 in mediating the repression of photomorphogenesis in darkness. Previous reports have shown that the CDD complex associates with the COP1 E3 ligase complex and that the two complexes act together in repressing photomorphogenesis (CITATION). In light of findings in this work, the reported CDD and COP1 complex association may actually correspond to the association of the CUL4-RBX1-CDD E3 ligase and the COP1 E3 ligase complexes. To test this hypothesis, coimmunoprecipitation of flag-CUL4 and COP1 was used to detect the in vivo association of CUL4 and COP1. As shown in Figure 6A , COP1 can be readily coimmunoprecipitated with flag-CUL4 from flag-CUL4 transgenic plant extracts, supporting an in vivo association of the CUL4-RBX1-CDD E3 ligase and the COP1 E3 ligase complexes in Arabidopsis. This complex-to-complex association may be mediated by direct COP10–COP1 protein contacts, as suggested by a yeast two-hybrid assay (Figure 6B) (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To further test whether CUL4 directly affects COP1 activity, we examined COP1-mediated degradation of the photomorphogenesis-promoting transcription factor HY5 in cul4cs seedlings. It has been shown that the extent of photomorphogenic development is correlated directly with the abundance of HY5 (CITATION). The COP1 ubiquitin E3 ligase specifically targets HY5 for ubiquitination and subsequent degradation by the 26S proteasome in darkness (CITATION). A kinetic analysis was performed of HY5's degradation rate after transfer of the light-grown cul4cs and wild-type seedlings to darkness (Figure 6C). HY5 protein degradation in darkness was markedly slower in cul4cs transgenic plants compared with wild-type plants, indicating that CUL4 is important for COP1-mediated HY5 degradation in darkness. As in other organisms, the CUL4-RBX1 E3 core may interact with adaptors other than the CDD complex to form distinct E3 ligases in Arabidopsis. Indeed, an Arabidopsis DDB1 mutant resulted in an embryo-lethal phenotype, different from the cop-like phenotype of the cop10 and det1 mutants (CITATION), implying that DDB1 participates in other developmental pathways, potentially by forming other distinct functional complexes, as has been shown in mammals (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, CUL4 cosuppression lines should display other phenotypes in addition to the defect in repression of photomorphogenesis conferred by the CUL4-RBX1-CDD E3 ligase. Indeed, examination of CUL4 cosuppression plants at different stages of Arabidopsis growth and development reveals multiple developmental defects. At the seedling stage, all of the cul4cs plants were smaller than their wild-type counterparts. Frequently, the cul4cs plants had seedlings with triple cotyledons (Figure 7A ). In the vegetative phase after the seedling stage, cul4cs plants had rosettes smaller than the wild type, with various irregular shapes and patterns (Figure 7B). In the reproductive phase, the phenotypic differences between wild-type and cul4cs plants became even more drastic. The cul4cs plants exhibited a severe dwarfism, accompanied by an increase in the number of secondary inflorescences and leaves. When the photoperiod was changed from the normal 16 h of light/8 h of darkness to 12 h of light/12 h of darkness, the number of secondary inflorescences of cul4cs plants was increased and that of the wild type remained unchanged (Figure 7C). Notably, the cul4cs plants invariably produced lobed, asymmetrical, or curled rosette leaves (Figure 7D). Different cul4cs lines displayed different degrees of severity in the abnormal leaf shape phenotype. Moreover, cul4cs flowers and siliques were smaller than their wild-type counterparts (Figures 7E and 7F). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana plants used in this study were of the Columbia-0 ecotype. All Arabidopsis growth conditions were essentially as described (CITATION) unless specified otherwise. Mutants and transgenic lines are as follows: csn5a-2 (csn5aT) (CITATION), csn1-1 (fus6-1) (CITATION), csn3-1 (fus11-1) (CITATION), cand1-1 (CITATION), cop10-1 (CITATION), cop10-4 (CITATION), det1-1 (CITATION), cop1-4 and cop1-6 (CITATION), 35S:TAP-RBX1 and 35S:TAP-ASK1 (CITATION), 35S:flag-CAND1 (CITATION), and 35S:flag-COP10 (CITATION). The full-length ORF of CUL4-L was amplified by RT-PCR from wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings using the forward primer 5′-CCGGAATTCGGTACCATGTCTCTTCCTACCAAACG-3′ and the reverse primer 5′-ATAAGAATGCGGCCGCCTAAGCAAGATAATTGTATA-3′. The EcoRI/NotI fragment of the PCR product was cloned into pEG202 (Origene Technologies) and then sequenced. This construct is designated pEG-CUL4 and served as the PCR template for all subsequent cloning of CUL4 into other vectors. Arabidopsis has two highly identical (likely functionally redundant) DDB1 genes (CITATION), and the full-length cDNA clone corresponding to DDB1a was used for all of our analyses described in this work. A KpnI/SalI fragment containing the full-length CUL4 ORF was inserted into pF3PZPY122 (CITATION). Then, an XbaI/SalI fragment containing the inserted DNA was subcloned into pJIM19(Kan), a plant binary vector that includes a kanamycin resistance marker and the 35S promoter of the Cauliflower mosaic virus. Wild-type Arabidopsis plants were used in the transformation of the 35S:flag-CUL4 transgene. Transgenic plants were selected with kanamycin (100 μg/mL; Sigma-Aldrich). To make the CUL4 RNAi constructs, a CUL4 cDNA fragment (1707 to 2176 bp) was amplified and cloned into the XhoI/HindIII and EcoRI/SpeI sites of pSK-int (CITATION) in antisense/sense directions, respectively. The DNA fragment containing a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and antisense/sense CUL4 fragment was excised by XhoI/SpeI and cloned into the same site of the binary vector pJIM19(Kan). To obtain 35S:EGFP-CUL4 transgenic plants, an EcoRI/SalI-digested CUL4 fragment was inserted into pCAMBIA1200/35SP/EGFP binary vector. The resulting construct was then transformed into wild-type Arabidopsis, and transgenic plants were selected with hygromycin (20 μg/mL; Roche). For RNA gel blot analysis, Arabidopsis seedlings were grown in different light conditions as indicated above. Total RNA was extracted using RNeasy plant mini kits (Qiagen). Blotting was performed as described previously (CITATION). Fragments of CAB, CHS, RBCS, and PSBA used for probe labeling were generated by PCR. We generated two polyclonal CUL4 antibodies designated anti-CUL4(N) and anti-CUL4(C). Anti-CUL4(N), a rabbit polyclonal antibody to CUL4 (N-SDDSSYSSPPMKKAKNDLH-C), was raised against a synthetic peptide derived from the Arabidopsis CUL4 protein. For anti-CUL4(C), the C-terminal region of CUL4 (143 C-terminal residues) was expressed in the vector pET-28b in Escherichia coli strain BL21(DE3) (Novagen). The fusion protein with a 6× His tag was purified and injected into rabbits as antigen. Polyclonal anti-CUL4 antibodies were purified from rabbit serum using the purified GST-CUL4 with glutathione Sepharose 4B (Amersham Pharmacia). Other primary antibodies used in this study include anti-CUL1 (CITATION), anti-CSN3 (CITATION), anti-CSN4 (CITATION), anti-CSN5 (CITATION), anti-COP10 (CITATION), anti-COP1 (CITATION), anti-HY5 (CITATION), anti-RPN6 (CITATION), anti-GST (Sigma-Aldrich), anti-MYC (Sigma-Aldrich), and anti-flag (Sigma-Aldrich). For the immunoblot analysis, Arabidopsis tissues were homogenized in an extraction buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl2, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1× complete protease inhibitor (Roche). The extracts were centrifuged twice at 13,000g for 10 min at 4°C, and the protein concentration in the supernatant was determined by Bradford assay (Bio-Rad). Protein samples were boiled in sample buffer, run on SDS-PAGE gels (8, 12, or 15%), and blotted onto polyvinylidene difluoride membranes (Millipore). The blots were probed with different primary antibodies. Full-length CUL4 ORF was subcloned into the BsrGI-NotI site of vector pUC18-sGFP (CITATION) to yield the construct pUC18-sGFP-CUL4. The procedure for transient expression in living onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells using particle bombardment was performed as described previously (CITATION). After bombardment, onion cell layers were incubated for 24 h at 22°C in the light. The cell layers were then mounted in DAPI staining buffer and examined by confocal microscopy. Arabidopsis DDB1a, DET1, and CUL4-L cDNAs were subcloned into the pFastBac vector (Invitrogen), whereas Arabidopsis COP10 and RBX1 were subcloned into a customized GST fusion pFastBac-based vector with a TEV cleavage site. Baculovirus samples expressing each individual protein were made according to the manufacturer's protocol (Invitrogen). Amplified virus was then used to transfect a monolayer culture of Hi5 cells with 80% confluence. Two days after the infection, insect cells were harvested and resuspended in a lysis buffer containing 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 200 mM NaCl, 5 mM DTT, and a protease inhibitor cocktail. After brief sonication and centrifugation at 15,000 rpm for 30 min, the supernatant was applied to a gravity glutathione-affinity column, which was subsequently washed with 20 column volumes of lysis buffer. The resin-bound proteins were eluted with 5 column volumes of elution buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 200 mM NaCl, and 10 mM reduced glutathione. The final purified products were analyzed by SDS-PAGE with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R 250 staining. The Arabidopsis CDD complex purified by glutathione affinity chromatography was subsequently cleaved by adding TEV protease after the eluted proteins were concentrated to >0.5 mg/mL. The protein samples (CDD itself or mixed together with CUL4-RBX1) were loaded onto a Superdex 200 column (Amersham Biosciences). Fractions corresponding to each elution peak were analyzed by SDS-PAGE followed by Coomassie Brilliant Blue R 250 staining. Arabidopsis Ubc8 was overexpressed and purified from E. coli as a His-tagged protein. Ubiquitination reactions were performed in a total volume of 20 μL (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM ATP, 400 ng of GST-E1, 100 ng of His-At Ubc8, and 4 μg of flag-ubiquitin). In addition, 1 μg of GST-RBX1-CUL4 complex and/or 1 μg of CDD complex was added to the reaction. Reactions were incubated for 1 h at room temperature and terminated by the addition of SDS loading buffer. For each reaction, 10 μL of reaction mixture was analyzed by SDS-PAGE followed by protein gel blotting with either the anti-flag or anti-GST antibody. The two-hybrid interaction assay in yeast was performed as described previously (CITATION) except that the LexA fusion constructs and the activation domain fusion constructs were cotransformed into yeast strain L40 (Invitrogen). β-Galactosidase activity was assayed as described previously (CITATION). An EcoRI-SalI fragment containing full-length CUL4 ORF was subcloned into pJG4-5 (Origene Technologies) to make the CUL4 prey construct. DDB1a was subcloned into pEG202 (Origene Technologies) to make a bait construct. Each subunit of the COP9 signalosome (CITATION), CAND1 (CITATION), COP10 (CITATION), COP1 (CITATION), RBX1 (CITATION), and ASK1 (CITATION) was subcloned into pEG202 and pJG4-5 as described (Origene Technologies). The flag antibody pull-down and IgG pull-down experiments were performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION) with minor modifications. The composition of the lysis/binding/washing buffer was 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EDTA, 10 mM NaF, 2 mM Na3VO4, 25 mM β-glycerolphosphate, 10% glycerol, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 1× complete protease inhibitor (Roche). The acid elution and concentration steps were omitted. The full-length cDNA sequence accession number for Arabidopsis CUL4 in GenBank is NM_123990, and the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus number is At5g46210.
