!~ABS~! The four-member SPA protein family of Arabidopsis acts in concert with the E3 ubiquitin ligase COP1 to suppress photomorphogenesis in dark-grown seedlings. Here, we demonstrate that SPA proteins are, moreover, essential for photoperiodic flowering. Mutations in SPA1 cause phyA-independent early flowering under short day (SD) but not long day (LD) conditions, and this phenotype is enhanced by additional loss of SPA3 and SPA4 function. These spa1 spa3 spa4 triple mutants flower at the same time in LD and SD, indicating that the SPA gene family is essential for the inhibition of flowering under non-inductive SD. Among the four SPA genes, SPA1 is necessary and sufficient for normal photoperiodic flowering. Early flowering of SD-grown spa mutant correlates with strongly increased FT transcript levels, whereas CO transcript levels are not altered. Epistasis analysis demonstrates that both early flowering and FT induction in spa1 mutants is fully dependent on CO. Consistent with this finding, SPA proteins interact physically with CO in vitro and in vivo, suggesting that SPA proteins regulate CO protein function. Domain mapping shows that the SPA1-CO interaction requires the CCT-domain of CO, but is independent of the B-box type Zn fingers of CO. We further show that spa1 spa3 spa4 mutants exhibit strongly increased CO protein levels, which are not caused by a change in CO gene expression. Taken together, our results suggest, that SPA proteins regulate photoperiodic flowering by controlling the stability of the floral inducer CO.
!~RES~! To investigate whether SPA genes play a role in the control of flowering time, we grew wild-type plants and mutant plants defective in individual SPA genes under SD and LD conditions. Fig. 1A and Table 1 show that SD-grown spa1 mutants in both accessions, RLD and Col, flowered much earlier than the respective wild-type plants. Under LD conditions, by contrast, spa1 mutant plants flowered at the same time as wild-type plants. Thus, spa1 mutants exhibited a defect specifically under SD conditions. Early flowering of spa1 mutants was more pronounced in the RLD accession than in Col, indicating that the genetic background influences SPA1 function.    Flowering time of spa single and triple mutants in SD and LD    [[FIGURE]] Mutations in other SPA genes did not cause a change in flowering time, either in SD or in LD (Fig. 1A, Table 1). This suggests that, among the SPA genes, SPA1 has a predominant role in controlling flowering time. It has been shown previously that mutations in individual SPA genes (spa1, spa3 or spa4) cause enhanced seedling responsiveness to light only when a wild-type PHYA gene is present (Fittinghoff et al., 2006; Hoecker et al., 1998; Laubinger and Hoecker, 2003). We therefore investigated whether early flowering of SD-grown spa1 mutants is also phyA dependent. Table 2 shows that spa1 phyA mutant plants flowered much earlier than phyA mutant plants, indicating that a spa1 mutation causes early flowering in SD even in the absence of a functional PHYA gene. This is consistent with the finding that phyA mutations do not alter flowering time under SD conditions (Reed et al., 1994). To further assess a possible function of phyA, we grew plants under daily cycles of 8 hours fluorescent light + 8 hours incandescent light + 8 hours darkness. The FR-rich incandescent light causes phyA-dependent photoperiodic flowering (Johnson et al., 1994). Also under this light regime, spa1 phyA mutant plants flowered earlier than the phyA mutant.    Early flowering of spa1 mutants in SD does not require phyA  Though spa2, spa3 and spa4 single mutants show normal flowering (Table 1, Fig. 1A), a contribution of these SPA genes to the control of flowering time may be masked by functional redundancy. We therefore tested spa triple mutants for their flowering time in response to SD. spa1 spa3 spa4 triple mutants that lacked SPA3 and SPA4 function in addition to SPA1 function flowered even earlier than did the spa1-7 single mutant (Table 1, Fig. 1B). Thus, in the absence of SPA1 function, the loss of SPA3 and SPA4 function further de-repressed flowering in SD. This triple mutant flowered at a similar time in LD and SD, indicating a complete loss of photoperiodic control of flowering time. Though early flowering of the spa1 spa3 spa4 triple mutant was most pronounced in SD, this mutant also flowered slightly earlier than the wild type in LD (Table 1). Taken together, these results show that SPA1 predominates in the control of flowering, SPA3 and SPA4 contribute somewhat, and SPA2 plays only a minor role - if any - in this response. Indeed, SPA1 was not only necessary but also sufficient for normal flowering in SD as the spa2 spa3 spa4 triple mutant retained normal photoperiodic control of flowering under the conditions used (Table 1, Fig. 1B). Photoperiodic flowering requires the coincidence between expression of the flowering time gene CO and exposure of plants to light (`coincidence model') (Roden et al., 2002; Suarez-Lopez et al., 2001; Yanovsky and Kay, 2002). To test whether spa mutants flower early in SD because of a change in the CO expression pattern, we examined CO transcript levels in wild-type and spa mutants over a 24 hour period. spa mutations did not cause any dramatic changes in CO transcript levels (Fig. 2A,B). Wild-type, spa1 mutant, spa1 spa3 spa4 and spa2 spa3 spa4 mutants showed very similar diurnal regulation of CO mRNA levels in SD-grown plants. This result is thus not consistent with the hypothesis that spa mutants flower early in SD as a result of a change in the level or pattern of CO expression. We subsequently investigated whether signaling downstream of CO is altered in spa mutants. CO induces the expression of the flowering time genes FT and SOC1 (Samach et al., 2000; Searle et al., 2006; Yoo et al., 2005). A comparative analysis of FT transcript levels in SD-grown wild-type and spa1-7 mutant plants shows that the spa1-7 mutation caused an ∼70-fold increase in FT mRNA abundance relative to the wild type (ZT 16 and ZT 20) (Fig. 2A,C). A similarly strong increase in FT transcript levels was observed in spa1-3 mutant plants when compared with RLD wild-type plants (data not shown). In the very early flowering spa1 spa3 spa4 triple mutant, FT mRNA levels were even more drastically elevated (∼1000-fold higher than in the wild type). The normal-flowering spa2 spa3 spa4 triple mutant which has a functional SPA1 gene, by contrast, did not show increased FT transcript levels (Fig. 2A,C). Thus, the flowering time of SD-grown spa1 and spa1 spa3 spa4 mutants correlated well with the amount of FT mRNA produced. FT transcript levels in spa mutants were strongly elevated only during the night phase and not during day time (Fig. 2A,C). Hence, it is evident that FT expression in spa mutants followed the expression of CO and thus might be dependent on CO. Moreover, the pattern of FT mRNA abundance observed in SD-grown, early flowering spa mutants was very similar to that described for LD-grown wild-type plants (Suarez-Lopez et al., 2001). CO also activates the expression of SOC1, a transcription factor containing a MADS-box domain (Hepworth et al., 2002; Samach et al., 2000; Searle et al., 2006; Yoo et al., 2005). However, we found that SOC1 transcript levels were not altered in spa1-7 mutants (Fig. 2A,D) or in spa1-3 mutants (data not shown) when compared with the respective wild type. Thus, spa1 mutants did not flower early in SD as a result of a change in SOC1 transcript abundance. In both triple mutants examined, the early-flowering spa1 spa3 spa4 mutant and the normal-flowering spa2 spa3 spa4 mutant, SOC1 levels were somewhat higher than in the wild type (at the most five-fold). Because this slight rise did not correlate with the flowering time of these mutants, it is unlikely that the spa1 spa3 spa4 mutant flowered early due to increased SOC1 expression. Flowering time is also regulated by the repressor FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC), which suppresses the expression of FT and SOC1 in a pathway unrelated to photoperiodic flowering (Hepworth et al., 2002; Lee et al., 2000). We investigated whether the elevated FT transcript levels observed in the spa1 and spa1 spa3 spa4 mutants might be caused by a reduction in FLC levels. Fig. 2A,E shows that the spa1-7 mutation did not alter FLC transcript abundance, although both examined triple mutants exhibited even a slight increase in FLC mRNA levels. This increase, like the slight elevation in SOC1 transcript levels, did not correlate with the flowering time of SD-grown spa mutants, and, moreover, according to the present knowledge on FLC function, should lead to an inhibition of flowering. Hence, taken together, the transcript analyses demonstrate that solely the dramatic increase in FT transcript levels in spa mutants relative to the wild type correlated well with the early flowering phenotype of spa mutants. This suggests that spa mutations de-repress flowering in SD due to an inappropriate induction of FT expression.   [[FIGURE]] To investigate the expression behavior of SPA genes under SD conditions, we determined the levels of all four SPA transcripts throughout a 24-hour period. Fig. 3A,B shows that SPA1 transcript abundance shows a clear increase at ZT20, i.e. during the night phase. This result is in agreement with the findings described previously for Arabidopsis plants grown in 12-hour light/12-hour dark cycles (Harmer et al., 2000). The transcript levels of SPA3 were also higher during the dark phase than during the light phase (Fig. 3A,D). SPA2 and SPA4 mRNA levels displayed only a slight diurnal regulation, with levels increasing only somewhat during the dark phase (Fig. 3A,C,E). Our finding that spa1 mutations affect photoperiodic flowering by inducing FT expression without altering the transcript levels of the FT-regulator CO suggests that SPA1 may regulate CO post-transcriptionally or, alternatively, may repress FT independently of CO. To distinguish between these two possibilities, we examined the epistatic relationship between spa1 and co in SD-grown plants. The early-flowering phenotype of spa1 mutants was completely suppressed by the co mutation (Fig. 4A,B). In agreement with this finding, FT transcript levels were not increased in spa1 co double mutants (Fig. 4C,D). This demonstrates that precocious flowering of SD-grown spa1 mutants is fully dependent on CO. In addition, the inappropriate induction of FT observed in spa1 mutants requires CO. We therefore conclude that SPA1 function is CO dependent.   [[FIGURE]] We subsequently considered the CO protein a potential target of SPA function. To test this possibility, we investigated whether SPA proteins can physically interact with CO. Indeed, all four SPA proteins interacted with CO in an in vitro binding assay that was based on co-immunoprecipitation (Fig. 5A). We further asked whether SPA1, which is the primary regulator of photoperiodic flowering among SPA proteins, and CO also interact in vivo. To this end, we transiently co-expressed cyan fluorescent protein (CFP)-SPA1 and yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-CO fusion proteins in leaf epidermal cells of Arabidopsis. Fig. 5B shows that CFP-SPA1 and YFP-CO co-localized to nuclear speckles. FRET analysis by photoacceptor bleaching further confirms that SPA1 and CO interact in planta. Significantly higher FRET efficiency was observed between CFP-SPA1 and YFP-CO when compared with controls (Fig. 5C,D).   [[FIGURE]] To define the SPA1-interacting domain in CO, we tested truncated versions of CO for in-vitro binding to SPA1 (Fig. 6A-C). In these experiments, some deletion-derivatives of CO were generated using a CO-protein tagged with six histidine residues. This His-tag did not affect the SPA1-binding activity of CO and is, therefore, insignificant. Deletion of both B-box type Zn fingers of CO (COΔB-Box) reduced the SPA1-binding activity of CO, but did not abolish it. This shows that the Zn fingers of CO are not essential for the interaction of CO with SPA1. C-terminal truncation of CO including part of the CCT domain (COΔCCT) abolished SPA1 binding (Fig. 6A-C), indicating that the CCT domain of CO is required for the interaction with SPA1. To determine whether the CCT domain is also sufficient for SPA1 binding, we tested a CO deletion-derivative containing only the CCT domain and the last nine amino acids of CO (CO-CCT). However, this protein was not capable of interacting with SPA1, suggesting that additional domains of CO are necessary for SPA1 binding. CO contains `VP motifs', which show some similarity to a COP1-binding motif detected in the transcription factors STH, STO and HY5. In HY5, this motif was also crucial for HY5 protein degradation (Holm et al., 2001). Because SPA1 and COP1 are related proteins, we considered these VP motifs of CO potential binding sites for SPA1. A deletion-derivative of CO that carries missense mutations (VP to AA) in three VP-motifs of CO (COmVP1-3) bound SPA1 as efficiently as the wild-type CO protein (Fig. 6A-C). In addition, a truncated CO protein lacking the last nine amino acids, including one VP-motif (COΔVP3), retained significant SPA1-binding activity. Thus, these VP motifs of CO were not essential for in vitro binding of CO to SPA1. However, we cannot exclude the possibility that our in vitro assay does not fully reflect the in vivo interaction between SPA1 and CO. In addition, these VP motifs may be of functional importance without affecting the SPA1-CO interaction per se. Our finding that SPA proteins interact with CO suggests that SPA proteins control CO protein function. Because SPA proteins control seedling photomorphogenesis by co-acting with the E3 ubiquitin ligase COP1, we considered the possibility that SPA proteins control CO protein degradation. We therefore examined CO protein levels in wild-type and spa mutant plants. CO is a protein of very low abundance and usually undetectable in nuclear extracts of wild-type plants (Valverde et al., 2004) (Fig. 7). In LD-grown spa1 spa3 spa4 triple mutants, by contrast, CO protein accumulated to detectable levels. CO transcript levels were similar in wild-type and spa triple mutant plants, indicating that the observed increase in CO protein levels in spa mutants was not caused by changes in CO gene expression or CO transcript stability. Hence, the elevated CO protein abundance in spa mutants is most probably caused by a reduction in CO protein degradation. Consistent with this conclusion, the CO protein was previously shown to be subject to degradation via the 26S proteasome (Valverde et al., 2004). In agreement with the elevated CO protein levels in spa triple mutants, these mutants flowered earlier than wild-type plants under these LD conditions (Table 1). However, although CO protein levels in spa triple mutants were at least as high as in a 35S-CO overexpressing line, these spa triple mutants flowered later than 35S-CO plants (data not shown). This implies that SPA proteins might also, directly or indirectly, be involved in regulating the activity of the CO protein.
!~MM~! The mutants spa1-2, spa1-3 and spa1-2 phyA-101 were generated in the RLD accession and are described by Hoecker et al. (Hoecker et al., 1998). The mutant phyA-101 (RLD) is described elsewhere (Dehesh et al., 1993). All spa mutants in the Col accession have been described previously (Fittinghoff et al., 2006; Laubinger and Hoecker, 2003; Laubinger et al., 2004). The co-SAIL allele (Col) was obtained from the SAIL T-DNA collection (Sessions et al., 2002) and was confirmed to carry a T-DNA insertion 342 bp after the ATG. It causes late flowering in LD very similar to other co mutations (Koornneef et al., 1991; Putterill et al., 1995). To generate the spa1-7 co-SAIL double mutant, a segregating F2 population was grown in FR and short, i.e. spa1-7 mutant, seedlings were selected and transferred to LD conditions. Plants that flowered late were confirmed to be homozygous spa1-7 co mutant using PCR-based markers that can distinguish between the respective mutant and wild-type alleles. To determine the flowering time, seeds were sown directly onto soil and plants were grown in a randomized fashion in either SD (8 hours light/16 hours darkness) or LD (16 hours light/8 hours darkness) at 21°C. The light source were fluorescent tubes (80 μmol m-2 s-1). Experiments that included the phyA-101 and the spa1-2 phyA-101 mutants were conducted in either SD (8 hours fluorescent light/16 hours darkness) or SD+extension (8 hours fluorescent light/8 hours incandescent light/8 hours darkness) at 21°C. Light was provided by fluorescent white-light tubes (200 μmol m-2 s-1) and incandescent 60W bulbs. Flowering time was scored by determining the number of rosette leaves when the first inflorescence was seen by eye. Total RNA was isolated from the green parts of soil-grown plants using the RNA Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) according to the manufacturer's instructions. One μg of RNA was treated with RNase-free DNase I (MBI Fermentas, St Leon-Rot, Germany), according to the manufacturer's instruction and subsequently reverse transcribed using an oligo-dT primer and RevertAid H Minus M-MuLV Reverse Transcriptase (MBI Fermentas, St Leon-Rot, Germany). cDNAs were diluted to 100 μl with water and 2 μl of diluted cDNA was used for PCR-amplification of CO, FT, SOC1, FLC, SPA1, SPA2, SPA3, SPA4 and UBQ10 fragments using gene-specific primers. The UBQ10 fragment was used as a control to normalize for the amount of cDNA used. CO, FT, UBQ10 and SOC1 and FLC primers were described previously (Blazquez and Weigel, 1999; Mockler et al., 2004). A SPA1 fragment was amplified using 5′TGGTCATGAGAAAGCGGTGA3′ and 5′CCTCCAACAGACGCTCGAC3′; SPA2 was amplified using 5′GCAGTTAGCTATGCGAAGTTC3′ and 5′GCAAACGCTTGAAACGAACAGG3′; SPA3 was amplified using 5′GAGAAAGGAGTCTACAATAAGTTG3′ and 5′CTCATTGATGGTCGACAAGTTGGCTCA3′; and SPA4 was amplified using 5′TGAAGAAGATAATGGTTCTCTGTG3′ and 5′CTCATCGATGGTCGACAGCTA3′. For all cDNAs, the exponential range of amplification was determined experimentally. Then, 25 (for CO), 28 (FT), 20 (SOC1), 20 (FLC), 20 (SPA1), 20 (SPA2), 22 (SPA3), 24 (SPA4) and 17 (UBQ10) cycles were used in all experiments. PCR reactions with each cDNA and primer pair were carried out three times simultaneously. The three PCR products were pooled, separated on an agarose gel, transferred to a Nylon membrane and hybridized with a radioactively labeled gene-specific probe. Hybridization signals were quantified by phosphorimager analysis. Constructs expressing GAD-SPA1, GAD-SPA2, GAD-SPA3 or GAD-SPA4 have been described previously (Hoecker and Quail, 2001; Laubinger et al., 2004; Laubinger and Hoecker, 2003). All constructs for expression of CO (without His-tag) were generated by PCR-amplifying the full open-readingframe (ORF) of CO or parts of the ORF of CO using primers with restriction sites and subsequent ligation of the digested PCR products into the NcoI-BamHI restriction sites of the vector pET15b (Novagen). CO expresses the full-length CO protein (373 amino acids), COΔVP3 the amino acids 1-364, CO-CCT the amino acids 272-373 and COΔB-Box the amino acids 107-373. To express His6-CO protein, the ORF of CO was inserted into the vector pDEST17 (Invitrogen) by Gateway recombination cloning. His6-COΔCCT expresses amino acids 1-331 of CO, COmVP1-3 expresses a full-length CO protein in which three VP motifs (amino acids 214-215, 265-266 and 370-371) were changed to two alanine residues by site-directed mutagenesis (Quickchange kit, Stratagene, La Jolla, USA). All proteins were synthesized using the TnT reticulocyte coupled transcription and translation system (Promega) in the presence of 35S-labelled methionine. Prey proteins were fully labeled with 35S-methionine, while bait proteins were synthesized in the presence of a mixture of labeled and unlabelled methionine in order to facilitate protein detection after SDS-PAGE. Protein synthesis and co-immunoprecipitations were conducted as described previously (Hoecker and Quail, 2001). Briefly, 10 μl each of bait and prey TnT reactions were added to 200 μl of binding buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM dithiotreitol (DTT), 0.1% Tween 20) and incubated on a rotary platform for 1-2 hours at 4°C. Co-immunoprecipitation were conducted by subsequently adding 0.4μ g of α-GAD antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) and 8 μl of protein A-coated magnetic beads (Dynal, Oslo, Norway). Precipitates were washed four times with 1 ml of binding buffer (without DTT). Pellet and supernatant fractions were resolved by SDS-PAGE and visualized using a phosphorimager (Fuji). To express CFP-SPA1 and YFP-CO in plants, the open-reading-frames of SPA1 or CO, respectively, were amplified by PCR and cloned into the GATEWAY vectors pENSG-CFP or pENSG-YFP by recombination cloning. In these vectors, CFP-SPA1 and YFP-CO are expressed from the constitutive 35S-promoter. Laser-scanning confocal microscopy was performed using a Leica TCS SP2 system (Leica Microsystems, Heidelberg, Germany). YFP was excited with the 514 nm line and CFP was excited with the 405 nm line of a diode laser of an argon laser 20%. Images were taken with an objective HC PL APO CS 20.0×0.70 UV. Fluorescence was detected in case of YFP between 525-590 nm and in case of CFP between 454-503 nm. For SPA1-CO co-localization studies and FRET acceptor photobleaching, Arabidopsis leaf epidermal cells of 3-week-old, LD-grown plants were co-transfected ballistically with two plasmid constructs, respectively, encoding CFP-SPA1, YFP-CO, CFP or YFP, and analyzed 24 hours after bombardment. Cells exhibiting co-expression of both fluorescent proteins were bleached in the acceptor YFP channel by scanning an ROI (region of interest) with 100% laser intensity. FRET efficiency was calculated directly by the TCS software using the following formula: FRETEff=(Dpost-Dpre)/Dpost for all Dpost>Dpre. Nuclear extracts were prepared from 12-day-old, LD-grown (16 hour light/8 hour dark) plants at zeitgeber (ZT) 16 as described previously (Valverde et al., 2004). Nuclear proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE using 10% bis-Tris NuPAGE ready-cast gels (Invitrogen), transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane and probed with an anti-CO antibody followed by an horseradish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibody. Immunoreactive proteins were visualized by ECL (Pierce). The membrane was subsequently reprobed with an antibody against histone H3a (Abcam) to control for unequal loading.
