!~ABS~! Signal transduction involving heterotrimeric G proteins is universal among fungi, animals, and plants. In plants and fungi, the best understood function for the G protein complex is its modulation of cell proliferation and one of several important signals that are known to modulate the rate at which these cells proliferate is d-glucose. Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings lacking the β subunit (AGB1) of the G protein complex have altered cell division in the hypocotyl and are d-glucose hypersensitive. With the aim to discover new elements in G protein signaling, we screened for gain-of-function suppressors of altered cell proliferation during early development in the agb1-2 mutant background. One agb1-2-dependent suppressor, designated sgb1-1D for suppressor of G protein beta1 (agb1-2), restored to wild type the altered cell division in the hypocotyl and sugar hypersensitivity of the agb1-2 mutant. Consistent with AGB1 localization, SGB1 is found at the highest steady-state level in tissues with active cell division, and this level increases in hypocotyls when grown on d-glucose and sucrose. SGB1 is shown here to be a Golgi-localized hexose transporter and acts genetically with AGB1 in early seedling development.
!~RES~! To identify new components required in G protein signaling in plants, we screened ∼20,000 T1 seedlings for dominant extragenic alleles (CITATION) that suppress the etiolated hypocotyl and hook phenotypes of the Gβ null mutant agb1-2 (Figure 1). Eight independent suppressor candidates, designated here as sgb-1D-8D for Suppressor of G Beta, were found to display, to different degrees, both an elongated hypocotyl and a closed hook after 2 d in darkness relative to agb1-2. One of these, sgb-1D, is the subject of this study. As shown in Figure 1, A and B, the short hypocotyl of agb1-2 at 2 d was partially suppressed in the hemizygous sgb1-1D/homozygous agb1-2 background, whereas the agb1-2 hook phenotype was completely suppressed (Figure 1C). [[FIGURE]] In addition, the larger rosette size of agb1-2 was also suppressed (Figure 1D) but other agb1-2 phenotypes such as leaf shape (Figure 1F) were only partially suppressed, and others such as silique shape (our unpublished data) were not suppressed at all by the sgb1-1D mutation. The sgb1-1Dagb1-2 line contained a single copy T-DNA insertion located at position 30,032,723 of chromosome 1, ∼1 kb 5′ to the start codon of At1g79820. Four genes were found within a 20-kb region flanking the insertion (Figure 2A). Therefore, to identify which gene was activated, the steady-state mRNA levels of these four adjacent genes were analyzed using RT-PCR. Only At1g79820 showed an enhanced steady-state mRNA level compared with the parent agb1-2 (Figure 2A). [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the dominant suppressor phenotypes was a consequence of overexpression at this locus, the full-length cDNA encoded by the At1g79820 locus was placed under the control of the cauliflower mosaic viral 35S promoter and transformed into the parent agb1-2 mutant. Hypocotyl and hook phenotypes of agb1-2 mutant were restored to wild type in three independent transgenic lines overexpressing the At1g79820 cDNA in agb1-2 (Figure 2, B and C, lines 1–3, and D). The d-glucose hypersensitivity of agb1-2 hypocotyls was also rescued when At1g79820 was overexpressed (Figure 2D). These results support our conclusion that enhanced expression of At1g79820 causes suppression of the agb1 phenotypes in sgb1-1Dagb1-2 and based on these, we designate At1g79820 as SGB1. Seedlings that were hemizygous for the SGB1-1D locus and heterozygous for the agb1-2 allele (i.e., Agb1+) exhibited the wild-type phenotype (Figure 2E). Because agb1/+, SGB1-1D seedlings behaved similarly to wild-type seedlings, this result suggests that SGB1-1D only affects hypocotyl and hook formation in the agb1-2 loss-of-function background. Consistent with this observation, overexpression of the SGB1 cDNA (35S::SGB1) in wild-type seedlings did not confer an obvious phenotype in these assays, nor did it alter morphology or development of adult plants (our unpublished data). The underlying cause for restoration of the short hypocotyls of agb1-2 seedlings to wild-type hypocotyl lengths when expression of SGB1 is elevated is due to an increase in cell number (Figure 2F). There were on average 23 cells along a file on the hypocotyl epidermis of wild-type seedlings in contrast to 12 cells for agb1-2 hypocotyls similar to values published by CITATION. Seedlings expressing SGB1 under the 35S promoter have files comprised of 20 cells. The maximum and minimum cell lengths for all three genotypes are similar, indicating that the cell division defect occurring during early development in agb1-2 is restored by SGB1. Taken together, the dependence of a loss of AGB1 for a phenotype when SGB1 is overexpressed suggests that SGB1 lies on the same genetic pathway as AGB1. It also suggests that AGB1 acts as a positive regulator of SGB1. The SGB1 protein, composed of 495 amino acids, has a predicted molecular mass of 52.4 kDa and an isoelectric point of ≈9 for an unphosphorylated form and 6 for a predicted fully phosphorylated form. The majority of protein topology servers (http://aramemnon.botanik.unikoeln.de) return a prediction for SGB1 having 10–12 transmembrane (TM) domains (Figure 3A, overlying dark lines), a central cytosolic loop and N- and C-terminal internal domains, and two sugar transport signatures (Figure 3A, double-arrow lines). A 12-TM topology is typical of sugar transporters in human, yeast, and plants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). SGB1 is most similar to a plastidic glucose transporter in plants (46% identical, 66% similar), to the human glucose transporter GLUT8 (28% identical, 48% similar), and to YBR241C, a putative transporter in budding yeast (28% identical, 48% similar). [[FIGURE]] SGB1 belongs to a large superfamily of known and putative hexose transporters with at least 50 members in Arabidopsis (Figure 3B). This superfamily, designated monosaccharide-H+ transporter-like (MST-like) proteins (http://www.biologie.uni-erlangen.de/mpp/TPer/index_TP.shtml), is one of the largest gene families in Arabidopsis, with most members having unknown functionality. The exceptions are the known sugar transporters (STP1-14, STP clade; Figure 3B) that have essential function throughout plant development (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). The large family of Arabidopsis MST-like proteins is composed of several clades. One large clade (STP) is composed of known and putative glucose transporters. Other clades contain putative inositol transporters, anion transporters, polyol transporters, and glucose transporters. SGB1 (At1g79820) is a member of the plastidic glucose transporter clade (pGlcT) composed of four uncharacterized proteins and is annotated as such solely on protein similarities to a spinach plastid glucose translocator (CITATION). Only one member of pGlcT (At5g16150) has a predicted chloroplast transit peptide (ChloroP = 0.83). SGB1 has a higher probability for mitochondrial targeting (TargetP:mtSP = 0.48) than for chloroplast targeting (ChloroP = 0.23), but neither prediction score strongly supports a mitochondrial or plastidic subcellular location. SGB1 is similar to putative and known hexose transporters in yeast and humans. Yeast has 32 sugar transporters that fall into three major clades (Figure 3C). A comparison of Arabidopsis SGB1 (AtSGB1, Figure 3) to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein database with a cut-off E value of 4.8 × 10−10 places AtSGB1 among a group of unknown proteins, and it is most closely related to YBR241C and VPS73. Cladistic analyses using a cluster model places SGB1 within the 16 most similar glucose transporters in humans (cut-off E value of 8 × 10−11). Human GLUT8 is the most similar to AtSGB1 (Figure 3, A and D). Heterologous expression in oocytes in conjunction with 2-DOG uptake assays support the predicted hexose transport activity of SGB1. The oocyte assay is a well established in vivo assay system for heterologous hexose transport (CITATION). Expression levels of SGB1 in oocytes after mRNA injection was demonstrated by immunoblot analysis using antisera directed to a 19-amino acid peptide located near the amino terminus of SGB1, which is predicted to be surface exposed and extracellular. SGB1 was detected in oocytes injected with sense mRNA but not the negative or positive controls (Figure 4, inset). Two negative controls were incorporated. As shown in Figure 4, [3H]2-DOG uptake into oocytes injected with antisense SGB1 RNA and SGB1 RNA containing a frame-shift mutation were not significantly different from oocytes injected with buffer alone and were at values similar to the nontransport controls reported by CITATION on a per oocyte basis. In contrast, SGB1 sense RNA resulted in 10-fold greater transport than controls and at values similar to the positive control, injection of a constitutively active glucose transporter 1 (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Complementation analysis with SGB1 tested with several yeast single and multiple deletion mutations (Supplemental Table S2) in known and putative hexose transporters (Figure 3C) was performed. However, despite extensive effort, rescue of either strong or weak phenotypes of hexose transporter null lines was not convincing (our unpublished data). A T-DNA-insertion mutant allele of locus At1g79820, designated here as sgb1-2 in the Col-0 ecotype was isolated from the Salk Institute sequence-indexed insertion mutant collection (CITATION). The T-DNA insertion is located in the highly conserved region of the penultimate exon (Figure 5A). Semiquantitative PCR revealed the absence of full-length SGB1 transcript, although a truncated transcript was detectable (Figure 5B). Neither the absence nor excessive amount of SGB1 had an effect on AGB1 gene expression (Supplemental Figure S2). The transcript levels of genes encoding the other known G protein elements, GCR1 (CITATION), GPA1 (CITATION), RGS1 (CITATION), or the GPA1-interacting protein THF1 (CITATION) were not changed by altered expression of SGB1 (Supplemental Figure S2). [[FIGURE]] Similar to the agb1-2 mutant, 2-d-old etiolated sgb1-2 seedlings exhibited short hypocotyls and open hooks (Figure 5C). The sgb1-2 allele conferred phenotypes that behaved recessively (our unpublished data). To confirm that the mutant phenotypes were caused by the T-DNA insertion at the SGB1 locus, we genetically complemented sgb1-2 mutant plants. Transgenic sgb1-2 plants expressing SGB1 (Figure 5D), or the fusions SGB1-YFP or SGB1-GUS (our unpublished data), displayed wild-type phenotypes. The observation that the sgb1-2 mutant had deficiencies in early development similar to the agb1-2 mutant suggests an associate role of SGB1 with AGB1 in cell division and elongation. Moreover, similar morphological phenotypes implicate SGB1 and AGB1 in the same pathway of G protein signaling, consistent with the results from the SGB1-1D gain-of-function mutants. To test the genetic relationship further, epistasis analysis was performed between the agb1-2 and sgb1-2 alleles. The 2-d-old seedlings of the agb1-2 SGB1-2 double mutant grown on 1% sucrose showed a similar phenotype to agb1-2 or SGB1-2 with short hypocotyls and open hooks (Figure 5F); neither an additive nor synergistic phenotype was observed. Together, the recessive sgb1-2 phenotype and the epistasis between loss-of-function alleles of agb1 and sgb1-2 suggests that AGB1 acts as a positive regulator of SGB1 in the early seedling development. SGB1 RNA was detected in various tissues of wild-type plants by RT-PCR (Figure 6A). Consistent with these RT-PCR results, an analysis of gene expression profiling data deposited in the GENEVESTIGATOR database (https://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch) showed that SGB1 mRNA was detectable in a wide range of tissues. No single treatment or tissue type tested to date in the public database displayed altered SGB1 RNA levels over controls or average by more than two-fold. Of particular interest, d-glucose altered SGB1 expression only 1.3-fold (Genevestigator, version September 2005). Therefore, to elucidate the differences in steady-state levels of SGB1 protein in various cells due to possible posttranslational control, we transformed both agb1-2 and Col-0 with a construct containing the SGB1 promoter driving the SGB1 cDNA translationally fused with the GUS gene. Overexpression of SGB1-GUS in the agb1-2 mutant conferred wild-type hypocotyl length and hook angle, indicating that the SGB1-GUS fusion protein is active (our unpublished data). High steady-state levels of SGB1 protein were observed for various sink tissues both in the presence (wild-type Col-0) and absence (agb1-2) of AGB1 protein. The apical and lateral root meristems (Figure 6, B and C), displayed high SGB1 levels. SGB1 protein was also high in anthers/pollen (Figure 6D), embryos, and specific cells of the siliques, including the abscission zone of the floral organs (Figure 6E). Dividing, but not mature, leaf cells contained high SGB1 levels (cf. Figure 6, F and G). A specific set of newly formed cells of vascular traces in expanding leaves was shown to contain SGB1 (Figure 6H, arrowheads). The SGB1-GUS pattern greatly overlaps the AGB1 expression pattern (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Because SGB1 may function in AGB1-dependent sugar sensing (Figures 2D and S1) and because most signal networks contain feedback regulation, the effect of d-glucose on SGB1 protein level in planta was tested using an SGB1-GUS translational fusion driven by the SGB1 promoter (Figure 6I). Etiolated seedlings grown without sugars express SGB1 in root meristems. Application of d-glucose greatly increased the steady-state level of the SGB1-GUS fusion protein and its distribution pattern. The d-glucose-induced increase was observed predominantly in the hypocotyl and root apices (Figure 6I, brackets). Similarly, sucrose increased the steady-state level of SGB1-GUS but with less efficacy. Sorbitol, inositol, and fructose did not alter the levels or distribution pattern of SGB1 over the no-sugar control. Arabidopsis plants expressing an SGB1-YFP translational fusion driven by the SGB1 promoter enabled the determination of the subcellular localization of SGB1 (Figure 5E). We first experimentally ruled out the predicted (in silico) mitochondrial and/or plastidic localizations of SGB1. Root tip cells of transgenic plants bearing pSGB1::SGB1-cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) and counterstained with MitoTracker, a mitochondrion-specific fluorescent dye (Invitrogen), revealed that mitochondrial fluorescence did not colocalize with SGB1-CFP fluorescence (our unpublished data). In addition, chloroplast-containing mesophyll cells expressing an SGB1:: GFP fusion protein, reveal no overlap between chlorophyll and GFP (our unpublished data). SGB1-YFP driven by the native promoter in wild-type (Figure 7B) and agb1-2 null (Figure 7C) backgrounds showed that fluorescence was observed in root tissues where the SGB1 promoter is active (Figure 6, B and C). Moreover, the fluorescence imaging was observed to be in multiple punctate compartments within each cell, reminiscent of the size, distribution, and number of Golgi apparatus in plant cells (CITATION). Moreover, the dynamics of SGB1-GFP movement (our unpublished data) also matched published Golgi dynamics (http://www.bio.utk.edu/cellbiol/iv/default.htm). Imaging a pSGB1::SGB1-YFP fluorescent construct in plants lacking functional AGB1 (Figure 7B) demonstrated that the localization of SGB1 was not dependent on AGB1 as the fluorescence patterns in Figure 7, B and C, are identical. Finally, because the SGB1 steady-state levels are higher in hypocotyl cells when grown on 1% d-glucose (Figure 6I), we examined hypocotyl epidermal cells and found the same punctate pattern for SGB1-YFP localization as in root cells (our unpublished data). [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the observed fluorescence was the Golgi apparatus, BFA was used. BFA has been shown in plants to disrupt the integrity of Golgi stacks, resulting in the fusion of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the Golgi stacks and the formation of so called “BFA compartments” (CITATION). After treatment with brefeldin-A (Figure 7D, bottom), the GFP fluorescence was observed to change from punctate structures representing the Golgi to both a diffuse fluorescence representing the fused ER/Golgi compartments and larger punctate structures representing the newly formed BFA compartments (CITATION). Z-stack reconstruction imaging of the young leaf epidermal cells of SGB1-GFP plants before (Figure 7E, untreated) and after BFA treatment (Figure 7D, +100 μM BFA) clearly demonstrate the effect of BFA on SGB1 localization. Higher magnification imaging of an individual BFA compartment (Figure 7, F and G) demonstrated that the larger BFA compartments were made up of fused smaller compartments, presumably individual Golgi stacks. Figure 7F is a three-dimensional reconstruction from a Z-stack acquisition of control and BFA-treated cells. Bodipy-BFA has been previously shown to label the Golgi complex in living cells (CITATION). We used Bodipy-BFA to stain Golgi in Arabidopsis seedlings expressing SGB1- GFP driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. In Arabidopsis root hair cells, SGB1-GFP showed a predominant colocalization with Bodipy-BFA–labeled Golgi stacks that were dispersed in the cytoplasm (Figure 8A, arrowheads). Under these conditions, SGB1-GFP protein was also associated with vesicles typically smaller than the Golgi stacks and that did not stain with Bodipy-BFA (Figure 8A, arrow). To further elucidate the localization of SGB1 and to understand the nature of the small non-Golgi vesicles, we used Arabidopsis seedlings expressing both SGB1-CFP driven by the SGB1 promoter and the cis-medial Golgi marker α-mannosidase-YFP driven by the CaMV 35S promoter. As shown using the Bodipy-BFA Golgi reporter (Figure 8A), SGB1-CFP was observed in Golgi as well as within rapidly moving small vesicles (Figure 8B and Supplemental Movies S1–3). Interestingly, the addition of 1% d-glucose caused within minutes a decrease in the smaller SGB1-CFP–labeled vesicles (Figure 8B, arrow, and Supplemental Movies S1–3). As can be seen in Figure 8B (bottom), nearly all the SGB1-CFP fluorescence colocalizes with the Golgi marker after a low concentration of d-glucose was applied. This redistribution was most apparent in the supplemental movies where the rates of movement of the smaller vesicles and the SGB1-CFP–labeled Golgi were perceptively different. Concomitant and commensurate with the d-glucose–induced decrease in the number of small vesicles containing SGB1-CFP, the SGB1-labeled Golgi compartments increased. This indicates that the Golgi is the predominant SGB1 compartment and further suggests that d-glucose regulates the SGB1 trafficking between the Golgi and as yet unidentified small vesicle compartments. [[FIGURE]] In summary, four lines of evidence indicate that the predominant but not exclusive subcellular localization of SGB1 is the Golgi apparatus: 1) the SGB1 compartment share the size, morphology, and dynamics of plant Golgi; 2) BFA reversibly causes the SGB1-GFP fluorescence pattern to collapse into diffuse ER/Golgi punctuate structures and the previously described BFA compartment derived from the Golgi; 3) SGB1 colocalizes with the Golgi stain Bodipy-BFA; and 4) SGB1 colocalizes with the cis-medial Golgi enzyme α mannosidase. Moreover, we have shown that SGB1 is found to various degrees, depending on the conditions, in smaller rapidly moving vesicles and that the addition of d-glucose diminishes their abundance in the cortical region of the plant cell.
!~MM~! agb1-2 was transformed with the activation tagging vector, pSK1015, by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (CITATION). The activation-tagging vector consisted of four CaMV 35S enhancers and bar gene as a selection maker as described by CITATION. T1 seeds were sterilized (2.5% NaOCl), stratified in H2O for at least 2 d, and then sown on medium at a density of ∼2000 seeds per Petri dish (100 × 15 mm) containing 1/2 Murashige and Skoog salts (MS), 1% sucrose, 0.5% phyto agar (Research Products International, St. Prospect, IL), pH 5.7, 200 mg/l Timentin. After a 2- to 4-h light pretreatment, seeds were incubated in the dark at 23°C for 60 h. Control plant seeds were placed on the same plates in a marked area for reference. In total, 2,000,000 seedlings were screen without selection for transformation. Because the transformation efficiency was ≈1%, we estimate that 20,000 seedlings contained the activation tag. Seedlings looking similar to Col-0 were selected as suppressor candidates. These plants were transferred into soil and grown at 23°C in long-day conditions (16 h of light and 8 h of dark). Plasmid rescue using HindIII-digested SGB1-1D genomic DNA was carried out as described by CITATION. SGB1 mRNA (1488 base pairs) was predicted based on the TAIR database information for locus At1g79820 (http://www.arabidopsis.org/abrc). The promoter sequence was defined here as the upstream sequence of SGB1 between the stop codon of the upstream locus, At1g79830, and start codon of At1g79820. All PCR reactions for cloning were conducted using high-fidelity Phusion DNA polymerase (Phusion, Espoo, Finland). The PCR products were verified by sequencing. The 14 plasmids generated for this study are listed in Supplemental Table S1 followed by a description of their construction. The primers used for cloning, genotyping, and sequencing are listed in Supplemental Table S1. The SGB1 cDNA was PCR amplified using the first-strand cDNA and ligated into pENTR D-TOPO (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). For fusion proteins, the SGB1 promoter flanked by NotI in pHW106 was cut and inserted into pHW123 in the NotI site. The resulting plasmid was recombined with proper destination vectors to make pHW128, 129 and 130, as listed in Supplemental Table S3. The binary vectors were transformed into Agrobacterium strain GV3101 by electroporation. Arabidopsis plants were transformed using floral infiltration (CITATION). The cDNA sequence of Arabidopsis SGB1 was optimized for yeast preferred codon for the first eight amino acids at the N terminus and the stop codon at C terminus (Supplemental Table S1). Yeast expression plasmids used in this study contained the ADH promoter for high-level constitutive expression. The 1.5-kilobase (kb) SGB1 fragment from pHW116, digested with XmaI, was inserted into the yeast/Escherichia coli shuttle vector p416 ADH in the XmaI site (CEN6 ARSH4 URA3) (CITATION). The vectors were either antisense (pHW117) or sense (pHW118). The vectors were transformed into yeast strains using TE/LiAc/PEG protocol (Clontech, Mountain View, CA). The transformed yeast were grown on synthetic medium (SD) with uracil dropout as the selection marker. The medium was supplemented with 2% glucose for all strains except 2% maltose for the mutant strain EBY.VW4000. The oocyte expression vector pXFRM contains Sp6 promoter, 5′- and 3′-β-globin untranslated region regions for efficient translation in oocyte systems (CITATION; CITATION). The SGB1 cDNA with restriction sites NcoI at 5′ and XmaI at 3′ end was PCR amplified. The PCR product was digested with NcoI and XmaI and inserted into the digested pXFRM vector; this generated pHW136 (SGB1 sense in frame) and pHW139 (with a spontaneous mutation). To make pHW137 with SGB1 antisense, SGB1 fragment was cut with XmaI from pHW117 and inserted into XmaI-digested pXFRM vector. mRNA levels were determined using a total of RNA isolated from various tissues plants by using RNAeasy plant mini kit (QIAGEN, Valencia, CA). RT PCR was performed using ThermoScrpt RT-PCR system (Invitrogen). First-strand cDNA synthesis was performed using a poly(dT) primer. Unrooted phylogenetic trees (unrooted) were constructed using the GeneBee algorithm accessed at http://www.genebee.msu.su/services/hlp/phtree-hlp.html (CITATION, CITATION). Homologues used for constructions of the phylogenetic trees were chosen from BLAST results by using the full-length Arabidopsis SGB1 protein sequence against the Arabidopsis (cut-off at 4 × 10−16), yeast (cut-off at 4.8 × 10−11), and human genomes (cut-off at 8 × 10−11). Topological models were generated using a topological algorithm to generate unrooted phylogenetic trees for Arabidopsis and yeast comparisons. A cluster model was used in the comparison to human glucose transporters. Organelle targeting probabilities were calculated using TargetP version 1.01 Server from http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/(CITATION; CITATION), which generated the same data as in TAIR for At1g79820 (http://www.mitoz.bcs.uwa.edu.au/apmdb/Flatfile-Script.php?chrlocus=AT1G79820.1). Confocal laser-scanning microscopy was performed on roots, leaves, and seedlings by using a Zeiss LSM510 confocal laser scanning microscope (Carl Zeiss, Thornwood, NY). Freshly prepared plant parts were placed on a glass slide in a drop of water and covered with a glass coverslip. All images were collected using a Zeiss PlanNeofluar 40× numerical aperture 1.3 oil immersion objective. Yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) was visualized using 514-nm excitation and a 530- to 560-nm bandpass emission filter. Green fluorescent protein (GFP) fluorescence was visualized using 488-nm excitation and either a 505- to 550-nm bandpass or a 505-nm longpass emission filter. Root tissues were stained in 10 μM rhodamine123 solution (dissolved in water) for 5 min at room temperature and washed with distilled water. Confocal images of rhodamine123 were collected using 543-nm excitation and a 560- to 615-nm bandpass emission filter. Roots were treated with MitoTracker Orange CMTMRos for 20 min, and images were collected using 543-nm excitation and a 560-nm long-pass emission filter. Differential interference contrast (DIC) and fluorescent microscopies of hypocotyl epidermal cells was performed on an Olympus XI81 inverted scope platform (Olympus America, Mellville, NY) using Nomarski optics, and images captured with a Cascade II charge-coupled device (Roper, Scientific, Trenton, NJ) and analyzed using IPLab and NIH Image 1.61 software. Seedlings were grown for 2 d in the dark on 1/2 MS medium supplemented with 1% glucose and then cleared in chloral hydrate. Average cell length was made from five cells at each position using multiple hypocotyls. The Col-0 transgenic seeds bearing with pHW138 (35S::SGB1-GFP) were germinated in the dark at 23°C on 1/2 MS medium with 1% sucrose. Six-day-old seedlings were stained with ice-cold 1 μM BODIPY 558/568 brefeldin-A (BFA) (Invitrogen) at room temperature for 20 min. The root hairs were observed using laser-scanning confocal microscopy. Root hairs had good penetration for BODIPY 558/568 BFA; however, the proper concentration of the dye and the age of the root hairs of a seedling are critical to avoid any effect of the de-esterified BFA, to obtain optimal penetration, and to avoid background fluorescence. The histochemical staining method for β-glucuronidase (GUS) activity is described by CITATION. Briefly, except for 2-d-old seedlings, all samples for histochemical analysis in GUS solution were gently degassed for 5 min for plants. After staining overnight, the samples were washed three times and cleared in 75% ethanol, in which samples were also stored. For yeast growth assays, three independent colonies of each transformed yeast strain were cultured overnight on a rotary shaker at 30°C until the stationary stage (OD600 > 1.0) in 5 ml of minimal medium (YNB supplemented with histidine, leucine, and methionine [uracil dropout], containing 2% glucose and 200 μg/ml Geneticin). The cultures were then diluted to OD600 ∼0.1 and grown to an OD600 0.5–1.0. Tenfold serial dilutions were spotted onto minimal medium for plate assays. The plates were cultured for 3 d, and the colonies representing living cells were counted for comparisons. The hexose transporter deletion strain EBY.VW4000 was transformed with SGB1 and grown on SD medium (ura dropout) containing 2% glucose for 4 d. For sugar sensitivity, assays were performed essentially as described by CITATION. Sterilized, dry seeds were sown on 1/2 MS medium supplemented with 0–7% d-glucose. Seedlings were grown for 10 d in constant dim light, and the numbers of green plants were scored. Construction of plasmids pHW136 through 139 is described in Supplemental Table S3. The plasmid containing the constitutively active human glucose transporter pGLUTX1(LL-AA) construct, to generate RNA for oocyte injection, was obtained from Dr. Mary Carayannopoulos (Washington University, St. Louis, MO). This plasmid harbors mutations in the GLUT coding region, which change LL amino acids to AA, causing the loss of insulin dependence for high-level glucose transport. Plasmids were linearized using EcoRI for pHW137 and pHW139, SacI for pHW137, and SalI for pGLUTX1 (LL-AA). Stage V–VI oocytes were injected with 50 ng of RNA prepared from SGB1 sense and antisense, respectively, and hmGLUTX1 (LL-AA) cDNA. 2-Deoxy-d-glucose (2-DOG) uptake assays were conducted 3 d after injection of oocytes as described by CITATION, except the amount of injected RNA in the present study was doubled. Briefly, the oocyte cells were incubated with 2 mM 2-DOG and 10 μCi of [1,2-3H]deoxy-d-glucose (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) in a volume of 0.5 ml at 23°C for 50 min. 2-DOG uptake remains linear at 45 min. Cells were washed, lysed, and the radioactivity was measured by scintillation counting. Antiserum against the SGB1 peptide MRGRHIDKRVPSKEFLSALC conjugated to keyhole limpet hemocyanin was generated in rabbits. The antiserum (#661) was used at a dilution of 1:5000 for immunoblot analyses.
