!~ABS~! Ascorbate peroxidase (APX) exists as several isoforms that are found in various compartments in plant cells. The cytosolic and chloroplast APXs appear to play important roles in antioxidation metabolism in plant cells, yet the function of peroxisomal APX is not well studied. In this study, the localization of a putative peroxisomal membrane-bound ascorbate peroxidase, APX3 from Arabidopsis, was confirmed by studying the green fluorescent protein (GFP)–APX3 fusion protein in transgenic plants. GFP–APX3 was found to co-localize with a reporter protein that was targeted to peroxisomes by the peroxisomal targeting signal 1. The function of APX3 in Arabidopsis was investigated by analysing an APX3 knockout mutant under normal and several stress conditions. It was found that loss of function in APX3 does not affect Arabidopsis growth and development, suggesting that APX3 may not be an important antioxidant enzyme in Arabidopsis, at least under the conditions that were tested, or the function of APX3 could be compensated by other antioxidant enzymes in plant cells.
!~RES~! Although APX3 from Arabidopsis shows the highest sequence similarity to the cotton pAPX and pumpkin pAPX throughout its entire length (CITATION), including the transmembrane domain at the C-terminus (CITATION; CITATION), APX3 was never experimentally determined to be localized to glyoxysomal or peroxisomal membranes. The cotton pAPX is localized to the peroxisomal membrane (CITATION), and the sequence that targets cotton pAPX to the peroxisomal membrane is composed of a C-terminal transmembrane domain followed by a few basic amino acid residues (CITATION, CITATION). This sequence was defined as mPTS (i.e. the targeting signal of peroxisomal membrane-bound proteins) (CITATION, CITATION). Since the C-terminal sequence of APX3 resembles the mPTS from cotton pAPX, it is predicted that APX3 is peroxisomal membrane-bound. Compared with other Arabidopsis APXs, APX3 is most similar to APX5 (CITATION). Like APX3, APX5 also has a C-terminal transmembrane domain followed by a few positively charged amino acid residues (Fig. 1). It appears that there are only two APXs in Arabidopsis that are likely to be peroxisomal membrane-bound. The third APX that contains a C-terminal transmembrane is the thylakoid membrane-bound APX in Arabidopsis (i.e. tAPX in Fig. 1). The other five APX isoforms in Arabidopsis do not have transmembrane domains (Fig. 1). APX1 and APX2 are cytosolic proteins, APX4 may be a peroxisomal matrix protein (CITATION) or a chloroplast protein (CITATION), APX6 may be a cytosolic protein (CITATION; CITATION), and finally the stromal APX (i.e. sAPX) can also be targeted to mitochondria (CITATION). In addition, two more APXs were found in the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION): APX7 (At1g33660) and an unknown APX (At1g43220). APX7 is a very small APX and its subcellular localization is not known. The unknown APX has no expressed sequence tag (EST) sequences associated with it; therefore it might be a pseudogene (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In order to localize APX3, it was fused to the C-terminal side of the GFP and the subcellular localization of the GFP–APX3 fusion protein was studied. More than 30 transgenic plants were created and it was found that most of them expressed the GFP–APX3 fusion transcript at high levels (Fig. 2A). The steady-state levels of the GFP–APX3 fusion protein were then studied by western blot analysis in lines that contained high levels of the transgene transcript. As expected, all high expression lines at the transcript level also expressed GFP–APX3 fusion protein (Fig. 2B). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The subcellular localization of GFP–APX3 fusion protein was analysed in those high expression lines. Fluorescence microscopy was used to observe the green fluorescence signal in protoplasts made from high expression lines. The data clearly indicated that the GFP–APX3 fusion protein was found in the membranes of organelles that appeared to be peroxisomes (Fig. 3A). To prove that the organelles to which GFP–APX3 was targeted were indeed peroxisomes, a reference marker line was used that expressed RFP that was tagged with PTS1. The RFP–PTS1 fusion protein was previously shown to be targeted to peroxisomes by CITATION. GFP–APX3 lines were crossed to RFP–PTS1 lines to obtain F1 plants that expressed both fusion proteins, and then the localization of these two fusion proteins was determined using fluorescence microscopy. To avoid the red fluorescence signal coming from chlorophylls, cells that did not contain chloroplasts were used. It was found that the two fusion proteins co-localized to the same organelles, namely peroxisomes in petal cells (Fig. 3B) or glyoxysomes in root cells (Fig. 3C). Based on these data, it was concluded that APX3 is localized to the peroxisomal/glyoxysomal membranes. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Previously it was demonstrated that overexpression of APX3 increases photosynthetic tolerance to drought stress (CITATION) and oxidative stress (CITATION) in transgenic plants. Therefore, it ws thought that APX3 might play an important role in plant cellular metabolism. To explore the function of APX3 further, an APX3 knockout mutant was studied that was obtained from the ABRC at Ohio State University. This mutant was due to a T-DNA insertion in the seventh exon (Fig. 4A), which leads to a null phenotype at the transcript and protein level (Fig. 4B, C). The size of the T-DNA insert is larger than 5 kb, which might result in highly unstable transcripts and disrupt the translation process. Despite several trials, no APX3 transcript was ever detected from this mutant. Consequently, no APX3 protein could be detected by western blot analysis (Fig. 4B). The phenotypes and growth behaviours of the APX3 knockout mutant were examined under normal and temperature stress conditions. No major morphological and biomass differences were detected between APX3 knockout mutant and wild-type plants under these conditions (Fig. 5A, B). Since H2O2 is produced from peroxisomes during lipid mobilization (via fatty acid β-oxidation) in seed germination, the seed germination rates of APX3 knockout mutant and wild-type plants were compared under salt stress conditions. Again no significant differences were observed between APX3 knockout mutant and wild-type plants (Fig. 5C). The data indicate that APX3 is dispensable for Arabidopsis under normal growth conditions and the stress conditions tested. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Since peroxisomal APX is probably involved in scavenging H2O2 produced during photorespiratory metabolism (CITATION), the APX3 knockout mutant may behave differently from wild-type plants under conditions where photorespiration is increased. Therefore, chlorophyll fluorescence analysis was used to study the photosynthetic electron transport in APX3 knockout mutant and wild-type plants under two different conditions that could enhance photorespiration: heat stress and elevated oxygen levels. Dark-acclimated, detached leaves were initially illuminated at a photon flux density of 350 μmol m−2 s−1 and 25 °C. The level of ΦPSII, which is used to estimate the quantum efficiency of electron transport in PSII complexes, stabilized after 20 min of illumination (Fig. 6A). No statistically significant differences between genotypes were found at this time. Then the leaf temperature was elevated from 25 °C to 40 °C within 5 min without changes in the light intensity. A temporary increase in ΦPSII, presumably due to temporary enhancement of the activity of the enzymes in the Calvin cycle, was followed by a decline in the level of this parameter. This decline represented the damage to the photosynthetic apparatus caused by the high temperature treatment. The decrease in ΦPSII occurred earlier for the APX3 knockout mutant when compared with wild-type plants (Fig. 6A), although the differences were statistically significant only at the beginning of the decline. Interestingly, this subtle difference in photosynthetic electron transport between APX3 knockout mutant and wild-type plants did not occur at 38 °C (data not shown). The ΦPSII values did not differ significantly between APX3 knockout mutant and wild-type plants under photorespiratory (i.e. elevated oxygen level) (Fig. 6B) or non-photorespiratory conditions (i.e. reduced oxygen level) (Fig. 6C). The data indicate that there might be a threshold of stress tolerance for which the role of APX3 could be reflected. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The green fluorescent protein (GFP) coding sequence was amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers gFP-3 and gFP-5, digested with enzymes BamHI and XbaI, and subcloned into the vector pGEM-3Z (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) to form the intermediate vector pGEM-3Z-GFP-B. The full-length APX3 was amplified by PCR from a cDNA library with primers APX3-18 and APX3-19, digested with BamHI, and then subcloned into the C-terminal end of GFP in the intermediate vector pGEM-3Z-GFP-B to form the vector pGEM-3Z-GFP-APX3. The correct orientation of the DNA insert was confirmed by PCR using GFP-specific and APX3-specific oligonucleotides, and sequenced for accuracy. The vector pGEM-3Z-GFP-APX3 was digested with enzymes XbaI and SacI (partial digestion due to an internal SacI site), and the GFP–APX3 fusion fragment was then subcloned into pBI121 (CITATION) by replacing the ‘GUS’ gene to form the transforming vector that was transformed into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101. The Arabidopsis transformation was conducted according to the protocol of CITATION. The sequences of oligonucleotides used for cloning are listed as follows: APX3-18, 5′-TAGTCGGATCCTTACTTCATCCTCTTCCGAATC-3′; APX3-19, 5′-CAGTCGGATCCTCATGGCTGCACCGATT-3′; gFP-3, 5′-CAGCTGAGCTCGGATCCCTTTGTATAGTTCATCCATGC-3′; and gFP-5, 5′-CGTACTCTAGAATGAGTAAAGGAGAAGAACT-3′. Total RNAs were isolated from 3-week-old Arabidopsis plants using the TRIzol reagent from Invitrogen (Carlsbad, CA, USA), separated by electrophoresis (10 μg per lane), blotted to a Nylon membrane, and hybridized with various probes. Hybridization was carried out according to the method of CITATION using probes labelled by random priming. The washing conditions were as follows: once for 10 min in 0.5% bovine serum albumin (BSA), 1 mM EDTA, 40 mM NaHPO4 (pH 7.2), and 5.0% SDS at 64 °C; then four times (10 min each) in 0.1 mM EDTA, 40 mM sodium phosphate (pH 7.2), and 1% SDS at 64 °C. The same filter was used for hybridizations with probes APX3 and PolyUb consecutively. The condition for stripping the filter was as follows: twice (15 min each) in 2 mM TRIS (pH 8.2), 2 mM EDTA (pH 8.0), and 0.08% SDS. The polyubiquitin gene [Arabidopsis Biological Resources Center (ABRC) number ATIS 0348] was obtained from ABRC at Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA. Plants at the 5–6 leaf stage were ground to a fine powder in liquid nitrogen. The powder was transferred to a fresh tube containing 200 μl of 50 mM NaHPO4 (pH 7.0) and centrifuged at 15 000 g for 10 min at 4 °C. The supernatant that contained mainly cytosolic proteins was discarded, and the pellet was re-suspended in 200 μl of 50 mM sodium phosphate (pH 7.0) and 200 μl of 2× SDS buffer [125 mM TRIS–HCl, 2% SDS, 20% glycerol, 200 mM dithiothreitol (DTT), 0.02% bromophenol blue, pH 6.8]. The resuspended pellet was boiled in a water bath for 10 min and centrifuged at 15 000 g for 10 min at 4 °C. The supernatant was transferred to a fresh tube, and the protein concentration in the supernatant was determined by using the Bradford assay (CITATION). Proteins from GFP–APX3 transgenic plants, APX3 knockout plants, and wild-type plants were subjected to electrophoresis in a 12% SDS–polyacrylamide gel. The conditions for blotting and colour development were the same as described previously (CITATION), except that the antibody used was anti-APX3 antibody. Protoplasts were isolated using a modified method of CITATION. Large rosette leaves from 3-week-old seedlings were rinsed, blotted dry, piled one on top of another, and sliced into 0.5–1 mm strips. The strips were transferred to a 25 ml flask containing the enzyme solution (1% cellulase, 0.25% macerozyme, 0.4 M mannitol, 20 mM KCl, 20 mM MES, 10 mM CaCl2, 5 mM mercaptoethanol, 0.1% BSA, pH 5.7) and subjected to continuous shaking at 40 rpm for 90 min. After this step, the speed was increased to 80 rpm for 1 min to aid in the complete release of protoplasts. The enzyme solution was passed through a 70 μm nylon mesh and centrifuged at 60 g for 5 min. The pellet was washed twice with wash and incubation solution (0.5 M mannitol, 4 mM MES, 20 mM KCl, pH 5.7) and then resuspended in 100 μl of the wash and incubation solution. Five independent transgenic lines that express GFP–APX3 fusion protein at high levels (based on western blot analysis) were separately crossed to a line that expresses red fluorescent protein (RFP)–peroxisomal targeting signal 1 (PTS1) fusion protein (CITATION), and the F1 progeny from these crosses were analysed for the presence of both GFP–APX3 and RFP–PTS1 fusion proteins. All five F1 progeny gave rise to similar results under the fluorescence microscope. Arabidopsis seeds were sown on MS medium and kept at 4 °C for 5 d before being allowed to grow at room temperature for 7 d, and then they were divided into three groups: one for the normal growth condition, one for chilling temperature treatment, and one for heat treatment. For the normal growth condition, plants were grown under white light (60 μE m2 s−1) at 22 °C for 21 d before harvesting for biomass analysis. For chilling temperature treatment, plants were put inside a refrigerator with white light (50 μE m2 s−1) and a temperature of 8 °C for 33 d before harvesting for biomass analysis. For heat treatment, plants were put in a growth chamber with white light (200 μE m2 s−1) and a temperature cycle of 40 °C for 3 h and 22 °C for 21 h d−1 for 25 d before harvesting for biomass analysis. Sterilized seeds of wild-type plants and the APX3 knockout mutant were planted on MS plates that contained either 50 or 100 mM NaCl for germination. The percentage of germination was calculated as the ratio of seeds that germinated to total seeds planted 7 d after stratification. The transgenic plants that express the GFP–APX3 fusion protein at a high level selected from western blot analysis were used for fluorescence microscopy analysis. Protoplasts made from GFP–APX3 transgenic and wild-type plants were analysed with an Olympus BX-50 fluorescence microscope. The flower petals and root tissues from F1 transgenic plants that expressed both GFP–APX3 and RFP–PTS1 fusion proteins were used directly for localization studies using a fluorescence microscope. The GFP images were then taken using a fluorescence microscope equipped with an exciter filter (HQ 470/40), a dichroic mirror (Q495LP), and a barrier filter (HQ 525/50). The red fluorescence images of the RFP–PTS1 fusion protein and chloroplasts were taken using an exciter filter (BP530/550), a dichroic mirror (DM570), and a barrier filter (BA590). The overlay images were created using the Simple PCI software (version 4.0). The black and white images for the same fields were obtained using white light on the same microscope.
