!~ABS~! Plants are able to integrate exogenous 1-deoxy-d-xylulose (DX) into the 2C-methyl-d-erythritol 4-phosphate pathway, implicated in the biosynthesis of plastidial isoprenoids. Thus, the carbohydrate needs to be phosphorylated into 1-deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate and translocated into plastids, or vice versa. An enzyme capable of phosphorylating DX was partially purified from a cell-free Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) protein extract. It was identified by mass spectrometry as a cytosolic protein bearing d-xylulose kinase (XK) signatures, already suggesting that DX is phosphorylated within the cytosol prior to translocation into the plastids. The corresponding cDNA was isolated and enzymatic properties of a recombinant protein were determined. In Arabidopsis, xylulose kinases are encoded by a small gene family, in which only two genes are putatively annotated. The additional gene is coding for a protein targeted to plastids, as was proved by colocalization experiments using green fluorescent protein fusion constructs. Functional complementation assays in an Escherichia coli strain deleted in xk revealed that the cytosolic enzyme could exclusively phosphorylate xylulose in vivo, not the enzyme that is targeted to plastids. xk activities could not be detected in chloroplast protein extracts or in proteins isolated from its ancestral relative Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. The gene encoding the plastidic protein annotated as “xylulose kinase” might in fact yield an enzyme having different phosphorylation specificities. The biochemical characterization and complementation experiments with DX of specific Arabidopsis knockout mutants seedlings treated with oxo-clomazone, an inhibitor of 1-deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate synthase, further confirmed that the cytosolic protein is responsible for the phosphorylation of DX in planta.
!~RES~! Enzyme-synthesized [2-14C]DX (CITATION) was used to detect DXK activity in crude cell extracts isolated from different organisms (Sphingobacterium multivorum, Staphylococcus aureus, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Arabidopsis, tobacco [Nicotiana tabacum] BY-2, and radish [Raphanus sativus]). A recombinant His-tagged version of E. coli XK (CITATION), shown to bear DXK activity (CITATION), was used as a positive control (Fig. 2 , lane 2). DXK activity could not be detected in S. cerevisiae, an organism synthesizing isoprenoids exclusively via MVA, while all other protein extracts did catalyze the formation of DXP (Fig. 2). As DXP is incorporated into the plastidial MEP pathway, chloroplast protein extracts were tested as well, but no activity could be evidenced (Fig. 2, lane 9). A primary screening of various enzyme sources allowed us to identify Arabidopsis and radish total protein extracts as the best candidates to start with plant DXK purification (Fig. 2, lanes 6 and 8). To facilitate the later cloning of the gene encoding DXK and its characterization, Arabidopsis was chosen as the source of proteins. [[FIGURE]] For purification, stability of apparent enzyme activity was tested in preliminary experiments. DXK from Arabidopsis was revealed to be heat stable. Further attempts to purify the enzyme to a higher degree after the Sepharose-Q column were unsuccessful and led to loss of activity. Therefore, we decided to identify all proteins contained in the mixture by a proteomic approach. The Coomassie Blue-stained gel revealed about 20 major bands (Fig. 3A ). All spots, identified by MALDI-TOF-MS, are listed in Figure 3B and corresponded to proteins encoded by the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION). However, only one (in spot no. 5) contained the conserved motifs FGGY-N (pfam00370.11) and FGGY-C (pfam02782.11) characteristic of a carbohydrate pentose kinase. This enzyme corresponds to a putative XK (accession no. Q91T51) with a calculated molecular mass of 61,830 D (Fig. 3B). [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the identified protein bears DXK activity, a recombinant His-tag enzyme (His6-At-DXK) and as its homolog from E. coli (His6-Ec-DXK) were purified using Ni2+ columns. The purity of both recombinant enzymes was greater than 98% as judged by SDS-PAGE (Fig. 4A ), with apparent molecular masses being close to the calculated values (53,414 D for the E. coli enzyme and 62,119 for the Arabidopsis enzyme, respectively). Following the technique described in Figure 2, a DXK enzyme assay was performed (Fig. 4B). In the presence of ATP and Mg2+, the recombinant enzymes were able to catalyze the conversion of DX into a more polar compound migrating with authentic DXP on a thin-layer chromatography (TLC) plate. The formation of DXP was proven by a coupled spectrometric assay with DXR (Fig. 1), as described by CITATION. [[FIGURE]] To compare His6-At-DXK with His6-Ec-DXK, some enzymatic properties were determined. We observed that His6-At-DXK, initially purified from protein extracts, was heat stable. Thus, in a first series of experiments, using [2-14C]DX, we evaluated enzyme stability of recombinant His6-Ec-DXK versus His6-At-DXK at various temperatures (Fig. 4C). Both enzymes showed more than 50% of the optimum activity between 10°C and 50°C, confirming temperature stability within a broad range. Overall, in comparison to His6-Ec-DXK, His6-At-DXK is the more efficient enzyme (Fig. 4D). His6-At-DXK showed specific XK activity in the presence of ATP as a cosubstrate but also accepted DX, albeit at greatly reduced efficiency (175-fold), like its homolog from E. coli (Fig. 4D). A 5-fold higher affinity was observed for the plant enzyme when d-xylulose was used as a substrate, and 2-fold when DX was used (Fig. 4D). While enzyme activity remained stable for several weeks, it has to be noted that the Km values have to be determined with freshly prepared enzyme fractions, as the values slightly increased over storage time. Next, substrate specificities for nucleoside triphosphate were tested (Fig. 4, E and F). The given activities were obtained using the radiometric assay, and values represent initial velocities calculated from time-stop measurements. Generally, each nucleotide was accepted as a cosubstrate when d-xylulose was used as a substrate; however, their relative efficiency appears quite different. The plant enzyme showed a clear preference for ATP, as compared to His6-Ec-DXK. In the presence of DX instead of d-xylulose, the activity decreased for both enzymes. However, as compared to His6-Ec-DXK, His6-At-DXK used exclusively ATP as a substrate. It has to be noted that after a longer incubation time (>16 h), DXP can be formed even if Vi is low (<1%). A second gene (At2g21370), encoding a putative XK (Swiss-Prot accession no. P42826), was found in the Arabidopsis genome. Alignment of protein sequences having homologies with XK from different organisms, by the aid of ClustalX software (CITATION; downloaded at ftp://ftp-igbmc.u-strasbg.fr), indicated there is no significant similarity between both XKs. Furthermore, this protein is more closely related to the well-characterized E. coli XK (CITATION) than the enzyme we purified from plant extracts. Consequently, the corresponding gene was referred to as Atxk-1, in comparison to the E. coli gene, while the gene encoding the purified DXK was named Atxk-2. A phylogenetic tree (Fig. 5 ), constructed with ClustalX using the neighbor-joining method, showed that they have evolved independently. The analyses distinguished three distant groups: the first one assembled eukaryotes, the second grouped mainly cyanobacteria, and the third one joined eubacteria. The Arabidopsis proteins confine to two divergent groups: AtXK-1 clusters with the cyanobacteria group, while AtXK-2 clusters with proteins present in higher eukaryotic cells. [[FIGURE]] In addition, Atxk-1 bears a 5′ extension in the open reading frame, which encodes an additional peptide of 43 amino acids as compared to the Synechocystis protein. It was identified as a potential targeting peptide by Predotar (http://urgi.infobiogen.fr/predotar/predotar.html) for prediction of subcellular location, with a probability of 40% for chloroplastic targeting and only 2% for mitochondrial targeting. The Psort software (http://psort.ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp/form.html) predicted the protein to be targeted to the stroma of the chloroplast with a probability of 51%, 36% to the mitochondrium and 29% to peroxisomes. Indeed, the protein contained at its C terminus a SGL motif, similar to a SKL-like peroxisome targeting signal type 1 motif. Finally, Target P1.1 (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) estimated at 43.5% AtXK-1 as a plastidial enzyme and 64.5% as a mitochondrial protein. To confirm the function of the putative transit peptide, the DNA sequence coding for the N-terminal propeptide was fused to the 5′ end of the gene coding for green fluorescent protein (GFP). Transient expression of the fused GFP in tobacco (cv xanthi) cells verified that the peptide was sufficient to target the reporter protein to chloroplasts (Fig. 6 ). The green fluorescence colocalized with chloroplasts, while control cells expressing GFP solely evidenced a cytosolic localization surrounding them (Fig. 6). For comparison, a known chloroplast-specific transit peptide (CITATION) fused to red fluorescent protein (RFP) was used for colocalization in tobacco BY-2 cells and led to the same conclusion (Fig. 6). A possible mitochondrial targeting function of the peptide was disproved by transient expression in tobacco BY-2 cells, followed by staining of the cells with the MitoTracker Red CMXRos probe. The photographs illustrated that the observed punctuated structures obtained after expression of PTARA1-GFP did not colocalize with the MitoTracker (Fig. 6), demonstrating that the peptide's only role is targeting into the plastids. In addition, the hypothesis of AtXK-1 being targeted to peroxisomes was investigated by colocalization experiments, either with the truncated form of AtXK-1 fused to the C-terminal side of GFP or its mutated version in which the SGL motif was removed (Fig. 6). None of these chimeric proteins colocalized with an expressed RFP-SKL protein (CITATION), which was taken as reference for peroxisomal labeling (Fig. 6). When fused to the N terminus of GFP, the truncated form of the protein (without transit peptide), starting with MSGNKGTN, was found in the cytosol (Fig. 6), and some cells contained a few protein aggregates within the cytosol. Furthermore, GFP fusion proteins at either the N terminus or C terminus of AtXK-2 confirmed that the protein was cytosolic, as was expected by the sequence analysis and the purification experiment (Fig. 6). In summary, the colocalization experiments proved that AtXK-1 is a plastidial protein, whereas AtXK-2 corresponds to a cytosolic one. Further, AtXK-1 presents no membrane domains and apparently corresponds to a stromal protein. [[FIGURE]] If we consider Atxk-1 to putatively encode a protein with XK activity, the question comes up as to why we did not identify this protein as a DXK. Furthermore, the possibility of DX phosphorylation by this enzyme would change the sequence of events compared to those expected with the isolated AtXK-2. In this case, DX would first be transported into the chloroplasts and then become phosphorylated. Does this enzyme bear higher substrate specificity for d-xylulose than for DX or is even the catalytic activity completely different? In vitro activity assays with the recombinant enzyme did not provide evidence for any carbohydrate kinase activity. We tested nearly 40 sugars (monosaccharides and disaccharides, including d-xylulose and DX) as potential substrate for AtXK-1, but none of them was significantly phosphorylated (data not shown). Because this might have been due to the lack of some unknown cofactor(s) or interaction with other proteins, the capacity of AtXK-1 to phosphorylate d-xylulose in vivo was investigated by functional complementation assays. We took advantage of the fact that E. coli contains a unique gene (xylB) encoding XK (CITATION). A strain was created in which xylB was deleted and replaced by a CAT cassette. The deletion did not affect Xyl isomerase activity in vivo (data not shown), which was essential for complementation assays. While no obvious phenotype could be detected on rich Luria-Bertani (LB) medium, the growing capacity of the mutant strain was strongly affected on minimum M9 medium supplemented with 0.2% Xyl (Fig. 7 ). As a control, when the medium was supplemented with 0.2% Glc, the mutant grew, as did the wild-type DY329 strain (Fig. 7). [[FIGURE]] Functional complementation assays were performed with the Arabidopsis isogenes Atxk-1, Atxk-2, and xylB (positive control). With d-Xyl as a carbon source and in the presence of 1 mm IPTG, AtXK-2 and XylB could rescue the xylB deficiency, whereas the strain transformed with the construct coding for AtXK-1 did not grow, like the mutant strain transformed with an empty vector (Fig. 7). These results suggest that Atxk-1 does not code for a xylulose kinase. To prove that AtXK-1 is not responsible for the phosphorylation of DX into DXP in planta, additional strategies had to be developed, as described below. Because our studies suggested that At-XK1 corresponds to a plastidial enzyme, we tested the hypothesis that chloroplast protein extracts catalyze the conversion of d-xylulose into XP or DX into DXP. Being genetically close to Arabidopsis, radish, which produces considerable plant material within a few days, was chosen to verify this hypothesis. Stromatal protein extracts were assayed, but neither apparent-DXK (Fig. 2) nor XK activity (data not shown) could be evidenced. As AtXK-1 bears strong homologies with the Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 protein (NP_442817) annotated as XK, we tested protein extracts from this cyanobacterium for enzyme activities. Neither XK (Fig. 8A ) nor DXK (Fig. 8B) activities could be detected, but enzymatically synthesized [14C]d-XP was converted into other compounds with distinct Rf and, therefore, different polarities (Fig. 8, C and D). Different NTPs were tested, but none of them could be utilized to catalyze the formation of DXP or XP (Fig. 8, A and B). These results demonstrate that in cyanobacteria, as well as in chloroplasts, there is no XK activity, at least not in form of a soluble enzyme. However, it cannot be excluded that the protein is not expressed or that it is regulated by an unknown mechanism, even though the transcripts are detected by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR in wild-type plants (Fig. 9C ). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To further prove AtXK-2 to be responsible for DX phosphorylation in planta, we characterized Arabidopsis T-DNA insertional mutants. Mutants were identified in the database from the Salk collection (http://signal.salk.edu). Homozygous plants were selected by PCR, and sequence analysis of the junction fragments obtained with T-DNA and gene-specific primers identified the T-DNA insertion in exon 7 for At2g21370 and in exon 2 for At5g49650 (Fig. 9, A and B). RT-PCR analysis indicated that the mRNAs were not expressed in the corresponding homozygous mutant plants (Fig. 9C). No phenotype could be observed under standard culture conditions. Using the Arabidopsis microarray database Genevestigator (CITATION), we checked the expression pattern of the mRNAs transcripts of Atxk-1 and Atxk-2: Atxk-1 is expressed in all organs and tissues, though predominantly in leaves and pedicels. Atxk-2 is more ubiquitously expressed, with a slightly higher expression level in petals and stamens. Analysis on the eFP browser (http://bbc.botany.utoronto.ca/efp/cgi-bin/efpWeb.cgi) confirmed these results and showed that Atxk-1 expression is enhanced by drought, genotoxic stress, or oxidative stress, while Atxk-2 expression is stimulated by osmotic stress. For close inspection of biochemical properties in vivo, biochemical characterizations were initiated. The presence of XK and DXK activities in cytosolic extracts and plastid fractions for each plant type was verified (Fig. 10 ). While in wild-type and Atxk-1∷T-DNA cytosolic plant extracts apparent activities could be detected, Atxk-2∷T-DNA plant extracts were not able to phosphorylate d-xylulose or DX (Fig. 10). None of the chloroplast fractions was able to phosphorylate the sugars, which confirmed the result presented in Figure 2. The tests were performed using ATP, GTP, CTP, or UTP as a phosphate donor and resulted each time in a negative enzyme assay. The results are consistent with the fact that XK is missing in plant chloroplasts and that AtXK-1, annotated as xylulose kinase, encodes a protein with different, yet unknown, enzyme activity. As a control, it was verified that the chloroplast protein extract was metabolically active using XP as substrate (Fig. 10), as was the Synechocystis extract. [[FIGURE]] To further characterize the biochemical phenotype of mutant plants, we tested their capacity to metabolize exogenous sugar added to the culture medium. In vivo, Atxk-1 knockout mutants, as well as wild-type Columbia (Col)-0, were able to use Xyl as a carbohydrate source in dark culture conditions (Fig. 11A ). In contrast to this, Atxk-2 knockout mutants did not germinate in the presence of Xyl, which was even found toxic as compared to seeds that were allowed to germinate without any sugar (Fig. 11A). To assess the role of AtXK-2 in the phosphorylation of DX in Arabidopsis, we tested the capacity of wild-type, Atxk-1∷T-DNA, and Atxk-2∷T-DNA plants to phosphorylate DX in planta. For this purpose, oxo-clomazone (OC; also referred to as keto-clomazone), a bleaching herbicide affecting DXS activity (CITATION; CITATION), was used to inhibit the MEP pathway and, thereby, the formation of β-carotene normally protecting photosynthetic reaction centers from photooxidation. We tested the capacity of OC-treated wild-type and mutant plants to phosphorylate DX into DXP, allowing after incorporation the bypass of the inhibition of DXS and, consequently, a reversion of the bleaching effect of OC (Fig. 11B). In the first series of experiments, we determined the minimal concentration of OC causing a bleached phenotype on Arabidopsis seedlings and the DX concentration needed to overcome, at least partially, the effect (data not shown). Reference concentrations were 0.2 μm OC and 2 mm DX. Under those conditions, a pale green complexion was recovered with wild-type and Atxk-1∷T-DNA plants (Fig. 11B), indicating a partial recovery of the biosynthesis of photosynthetic pigments derived from DXP via the MEP pathway. In contrast to this, the Atxk-2∷T-DNA plants remained albino (Fig. 11B) and AtXK-1 was unable to take over the function of AtXK-2 in the Atxk-2∷T-DNA knockout mutant. In summary, these investigations led us to conclude that AtXK-2 is the sole enzyme able to phosphorylate DX in planta. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Ni2+ spin columns were purchased from Qiagen. d-Xylulose and d-Xyl were purchased from Fluka and the MitoTracker Red CMXRos probe from Molecular Probes Europe BV. DX was chemically synthesized as described by CITATION. OC was provided by Dr. Klaus Grossmann (BASF). Silica (silica 60 F254) and polyethyleneimine (PEI)-cellulose F plates, utilized for TLC, were purchased from Merck. The vectors pGEMT (Promega) and pET3a (Novagen) were used for transformation of Escherichia coli cells. PerkinElmer Life Sciences was the source of [2-C14]pyruvate (50 μCi, specific activity 10 mCi mmol−1), and [2-14C]deoxy-d-xylulose was enzymatically synthesized from [2-14C]pyruvate as described by CITATION. d-[U-14C]Xyl (82 mCi/mmol, 200 μCi/mL) was obtained from Amersham. E. coli strain XL1-Blue was purchased from Stratagene, whereas BL21(DE3) and Rosetta-gami(DE3) pLacI were purchased from Novagen. The E. coli DY329 strain used for genetic engineering was obtained from Dr. Donald Court (National Cancer Institute). All strains were grown on LB broth medium (Gibco-BRL) supplemented with ampicillin (100 μg/mL) if needed, or on M9 minimum medium supplemented with 0.05% (w/v) yeast extract. Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 was obtained from the Institut Pasteur and was grown in BG-11 medium (Sigma). Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Staphylococcus aureus strains were handled as described by CITATION. Radish (Raphanus sativus) seeds were germinated on tap water for 4 d. Seeds of the T-DNA insertion lines SALK_042149 and SALK_079018, generated at the Salk Institute Genome Analysis Laboratory (CITATION), were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center under the names N542149 and N519643, respectively. When not specifically indicated, wild-type Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana; ecotype Col-0) was used. Seeds were ethanol and bleach sterilized, and then transferred into liquid Murashige and Skoog medium, pH 5.7 (Duchefa). Cultures were grown under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod under continuous shaking (100 rpm). Seedlings were recovered after 21 d and stored at −80°C. When grown on soil, Arabidopsis plants were transferred to growth chambers (at 21°C under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod). For complementation experiments, seeds were surface sterilized and plated on agar-solidified Murashige and Skoog medium containing different chemicals as described for each experiment. Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells (CITATION) were cultured as described in detail (CITATION), while tobacco cv xanthi cells were grown as described by CITATION. Several plant, bacterial, and yeast extracts were used to screen for DXK activity. The extraction of total proteins was performed as described by CITATION. Cytosolic fractions were obtained after centrifugation at 100,000g for 1 h at 4°C. Chloroplasts from radish and Arabidopsis were purified using a Percoll gradient as described by CITATION. For enzymatic assays, chloroplasts were lysed by hypotonic treatment with Tris-HCl (62.5 mm), pH 8.0, and MgCl2 (2 mm). All procedures were conducted at 4°C unless noted otherwise. Frozen 3-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings (50 g) were ground in a mortar in presence of liquid nitrogen. The powder was suspended in 40 mL of ice-cold purification buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl buffer, pH 7.5, 5 mm β-mercaptoethanol) supplemented with 4% (w/v) polyvinylpyrrolidone (Sigma). Heat-labile proteins were precipitated by incubation at 50°C (20 min). The supernatant was cleared up by centrifugation at 17,000g, then mixed with PEG6000 to a final 20% (w/v) concentration. The homogenate was stirred for 30 min, then incubated for 2 h on ice. Precipitated proteins were removed by centrifugation at 17,000g for 20 min and the supernatant was loaded on a DEAE-Sepharose column (2.4 × 15 cm) equilibrated with the purification buffer (flow rate: 25 mL h−1). The column was carefully washed with the same buffer to eliminate unbound proteins and PEG. Proteins were eluted with a linear gradient of NaCl (400 mL, 0–0.4 m in the buffer). Fractions (5 mL) were collected and assayed for DXK activity. Active fractions were pooled and desalted by dialysis against purification buffer (3 × 1 L), followed by loading onto a Sepharose Q column (1 × 8 cm) equilibrated with the same buffer. After washing, bound proteins were eluted with a linear gradient (60 mL) of increasing concentration of NaCl (0–0.3 m) in the buffer. Fractions (1 mL) were collected, assayed for DXK activity, and analyzed by SDS-PAGE. Those with the highest activity were pooled and concentrated using ultrafiltration Centricon 30 concentrators (Millipore). Protein concentration was estimated using the protocol of CITATION, with the Bio-Rad protein assay reagent (Bio-Rad) and bovine serum albumin as a standard. Vertical SDS-PAGE was done according to CITATION using a minigel system (Hoefer Scientific Instruments) and 12% (w/v) acrylamide/0.1% (w/v) SDS gel (0.75 mm) gels. SDS-PAGE gels were scanned (GS-800; Bio-Rad) and analyzed with QuantityOne software (Bio-Rad). Proteins bands were excised and in-gel digested with trypsin according to published methods (CITATION), modified for use with a robotic digestion system (MassPREP; Micromass). MALDI-TOF-MS measurements were carried out on an UltraflexTOF/TOF (Bruker Daltonics). Samples were handled as described by CITATION. The resulting peptide mass fingerprints were compared to a local copy of the database Swissprot and TrEMBL using MASCOT (CITATION) search software. The parameters used in the search were as followed: peptide mass tolerance 50 ppm, one missed cleavage, carboxymethylated Cys, Met oxidation, and N-terminal acetylation. Total RNA was isolated from seedlings (0.8 g) according to the protocol described by CITATION. The final RNA pellet was dissolved in DEPC-treated water (100 μL). mRNAs were purified using the Dynabeads mRNA kit (Dynal A.S.) according to the manufacturer's protocol. Double-strand cDNA synthesis was carried out using 2 μg of mRNA, 1 μg of the oligonucleotide (dT)18, and the SuperScript system for cDNA synthesis (Life Technologies S.A.R.L.) according to the manufacturer's instructions. PCR amplification (50 μL) was achieved using one-twentieth of double-strand cDNA, 0.2 μm of the specific forward primer (AtXK1F, His6-AtXK1F, or His6-AtXK2F), the reverse primer (AtXK1R or AtXK2R), and the 2× High Fidelity PCR Master system (Roche Diagnostics). The sequences of the primers are listed in Table I . The reaction was set up for 30 cycles with an annealing temperature of 45°C, an elongation temperature of 72°C for 45 s, and a denaturation temperature of 94°C for 45 s. The PCR products were purified using the QIAEX II kit (Qiagen), cloned into pGEMT (Promega), and sequenced from the 5′ end of the cDNA under the conditions and with the reagents for PCR sequencing (T3 dye primers; Applied Biosystems). Oligonucleotides used in this study The nucleotides in bold represent restriction sites used for further cloning. KO, Knockout. The kinetic parameters (Vmax and Km) of XK using either d-xylulose or DX as substrate were determined using a coupled spectrophotometric assay. The assays (500 μL) were carried out at 37°C in the assay buffer (Tris-HCl buffer, pH 7.5 [50 mm], containing MgCl2 [5 mm], KCl [10 mm], and DTE [2 mm]). Initial concentrations of ATP, phosphoenolpyruvate, and NADH were 2.5, 0.6, and 0.25 mm, respectively. The concentration of d-xylulose was increased from 0.15 to 0.8 mm for the E. coli enzyme and from 0.03 to 0.2 mm for the Arabidopsis enzyme. The concentration of DX was increased from 0.4 to 2 mm for the E. coli enzyme and from 0.3 to 1.2 mm for the Arabidopsis enzyme. After addition of pyruvate kinase (8 U) and lactate dehydrogenase (8 U), the mixture was preincubated for 5 min to follow unspecific formation of ADP. XK from E. coli (0.11 μg for d-xylulose and 2.2 μg for DX) or Arabidopsis (0.15 μg for d-xylulose and 0.6 μg for DX) was added and the reaction was monitored at 340 nm to follow the oxidation of NADH to NAD+. The radiometric DXK assays were performed according to the method conceived to determine d-XK activity (CITATION). The enzymatic reaction (25 μL) was carried out at 37°C in the assay buffer. The concentrations of ATP and DX were 20 mm and 3.5 mm, respectively. At given times, aliquots (2 μL) were withdrawn and loaded onto silica plates that were developed in (6:1:3, v/v/v) n-propyl alcohol:ethyl acetate:water and analyzed using an automatic TLC-linear analyzer (LB2820-1; Berthold) or a PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics). The nucleoside triphosphate specificity was analyzed using the radiometric assay. The concentration of ATP, GTP, CTP, or UTP was 4 mm. To determine the rate of XK activity, d-xylulose was obtained in situ from d-Xyl (3 mm) and [U-14C]d-Xyl (0.067 μCi, 33 μm) and the enzymatic reaction was initiated by addition of XK (0.03 μg for E. coli or 0.05 μg for Arabidopsis). Aliquots (2 μL) were withdrawn after 2, 4, and 6 min incubation to measure the amount of synthesized XP (CITATION). To measure the rate of DXK activity, the concentrations of DX and [14C]DX were 3 mm and 0.5 mm. The enzymatic reaction was initiated by addition of XK of E. coli (0.22 μg) or Arabidopsis (0.15 μg). Aliquots (2 μL) were withdrawn after 3, 6, and 9 min incubation to determine the amount of DXP. At-xk1 and At-xk2 were 3′ and 5′ fused to GFP using the primers listed in Table I and transformed into tobacco BY-2 or xanthi cells. The open reading frame corresponding to the first 43 amino acids of AtXK-1 was modified by PCR using PT-AtXK1GFP-F and PT-AtXK1GFP-R (Table I) as primers and cDNAs as template as described in the preceding section. The amplified fragment was digested with NcoI and cloned in-frame into the NcoI site of the GFP expression vector (pGFP; CITATION) to yield a fusion of the putative transit peptide with the N terminus of GFP (pPTA1-GFP). Two further constructs were made to obtain an N-terminal fusion protein. For this, the primer sets TcAtXK1GFPFNcoI/TcAtXK1GFPRNcoI and TcAtXK2GFPFNcoI/TcAtXK2GFPRNcoI were used to amplify the inserts and to clone them into the NcoI restriction site of pGFP. The resulting plasmids were named pTcAtxk-1-GFP and pAtxk-2-GFP. Finally, in the same way, constructs containing inserts coding for C-terminal GFP fusion proteins were made. The primer set TcAtXK1GFPFSacI/TcAtXK1GFPRXbaI, TcAtXK1GFPFSacI/TcAtXK1GFP-MutRXbaI, or AtXK2GFPFSacI/AtXK2GFPRXbaI was utilized to amplify a DNA fragment used to clone Atxk-1 or Atxk-2 in-frame at the 3′ site of GFP, after digestion, into the SacI and XbaI sites of pGFP. The resulting plasmids were named pGFP-TcAtxk-1, pGFP-TcAtxk-1-MutSGL, and pGFP-Atxk-2. To obtain the plasmid pPT5-RFP, the chloroplast-specific transit peptide PT5 (CITATION) was digested with NcoI and cloned into pRFP (CITATION). Tobacco suspension cells were used for transformation by tungsten particle shooting with an inflow gun containing the different plasmid constructs as indicated. After incubation (5–20 h at 23°C), transformed cells were examined using a Zeiss LSL510 confocal laser scanning microscope equipped with an inverted Zeiss Axiovert 10M microscope and a 63×, 1.2 numerical aperture water immersion objective. GFP was excited at 488 nm using an argon laser and emission spectra were recorded from 505 nm to 530 nm. Chlorophyll as well as RFP were excited at 543 nm using a helium laser and emission was recorded at wavelength higher than 585 nm. Images were handled with the Zeiss LSM Image Browser Version 2.50.0929 software and exported as TIFF files before processed for printing using Photoshop 5.0 (Adobe Systems). The genes encoding putative XK from Arabidopsis were digested with the endonucleases NdeI and BamHI, for which restriction sites were introduced by PCR amplification using the primers listed in Table I, then ligated into the corresponding cloning sites of the prokaryotic expression vector pET3-a (Novagen) prepared by the same way. This allowed us to obtain the plasmids designated as pET-(His)6-AtXK-1 and pET-(His)6-AtXK-2. The E. coli gene cloned into pET-3a expression vector was obtained as described by CITATION. E. coli BL21-DE3 or Rosetta-gami cells were transformed with pET-(His)6-Ec-XK, pET-(His)6-AtXK-1, and pET-(His)6-AtXK-2. Overnight cultures were 100-fold diluted into LB medium and grown at 37°C until the OD600 reached 0.3, at which time IPTG was added to a final concentration of 0.5 mm. After 12 h of incubation at 23°C, the cells were harvested. Purified protein used for enzyme characterization was obtained using the Ni2+ spin columns, according to the manufacturer's protocol. The enzymes were dialyzed overnight against Tris-HCl buffer (50 mm, pH 7.5) containing 5 mm β-mercaptoethanol. The degree of purification of the fractions was analyzed by SDS-PAGE. The xylB gene is part of an operon (xylAB operon: 3,725,940–3,728,922 min) containing two genes: xylA encoding Xyl isomerase, an enzyme catalyzing the conversion of d-Xyl into d-xylulose, and xylB, respectively (http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx/index.html). To generate an E. coli strain deleted in d-XK, xylB was replaced by the chloramphenicol resistance cassette. For this, the cassette was amplified from pLysE (Novagen) using CAT1 and CAT4 as primer sets (Table I). The cassette was cloned into pGEMT (Promega), sequenced, and bacteria transformed with these plasmids were allowed to grow on selective LB medium. The E. coli DY329 strain was engineered as described by CITATION using the primers sets XKCATF and XKCATR, listed in Table I. Deletion of the gene was examined by isolation of genomic DNA and PCR amplification with XF and XR. It was verified that xylA (coding for Xyl isomerase), the first enzyme constituting the operon, remained functional. Total protein extracts isolated from the xk∷cat strain were subjected to a coupled XK enzyme assay in which Xyl isomerase was missing and a recombinant E. coli XK was used as described by CITATION. The strain was transformed with pET, pET-DXKcoli, pET-At-XK1, or pET-At-XK2. The strains were cultured in LB medium (3 mL), washed three times with sterile water, diluted 100 times, and 10 μL was deposited on 1/5 sections of each petri dish containing LB (20 mL), LB (20 mL) supplemented with chloramphenicol (30 μg/mL), M9 medium (20 mL) supplemented with 0.2% Glc, or 20 mL M9 medium supplemented with 0.2% Xyl. The LB-petri dishes were incubated for 2 d at 30°C, whereas the M9 petri dishes were incubated for 5 d. Both Arabidopsis knockout mutants were generated at the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory collection (http://signal.salk.edu; CITATION). Atxk-1 (SALK_094661, N542149) and the Atxk-2 knockout mutants (SALK_079018, N519643) were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (http://Arabidopsis.info/). Using the primer sets SA1/AA1 and SA1/LBb1, homozygous plants Atxk-1∷T-DNA were selected. In the same way, using the SA2/AA2 and SA2/LBb1 primer pairs, Atxk-2∷T-DNA plants were selected. PCR amplifications were performed with Taq polymerase (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions, using 250 pm of each sense (S) and antisense (A) primer. An initial denaturation step for 3 min at 94°C was followed by 30 cycles of 45 s at 94°C, 45 s at 52°C, and 45 s at 72°C. For RT-PCR experiments, 1 μg of total RNA was extracted with TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen), DNAse I treated, and finally reverse transcribed by the aid of SuperScript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) using 500 ng of oligo(dT). A fraction (about one-twentieth) of the first-strand cDNAs was used as a template for PCR with gene-specific primers (in a volume of 20 μL with 1 unit of Taq polymerase, 250 μm each dNTP, and 250 pm of each primer [RTAtXK1F/RTAtXK1R or RTAtXK2F/RTAtXK2R]). An initial denaturation step for 5 min at 95°C was followed by 35 cycles of 45 s at 95°C, 45 s at 55°C, and 1 min at 72°C. Amplification of actin 2 (At3g18780) cDNA using primers Act2F2 and Act2R2 served as an internal control. In addition, for further control, primers were designed to amplify intron-containing DNA sequences, should any contaminating genomic DNA be present. PCR products were separated on 1% (w/v) agarose gels containing ethidium bromide and visualized by UV light.
