!~ABS~! In mammals, the electron transfer flavoprotein (ETF) is a heterodimeric protein composed of two subunits, α and β, that is responsible for the oxidation of at least nine mitochondrial matrix flavoprotein dehydrogenases. Electrons accepted by ETF are further transferred to the main respiratory chain via the ETF ubiquinone oxide reductase (ETFQO). Sequence analysis of the unique Arabidopsis homologues of two subunits of ETF revealed their high similarity to both subunits of the mammalian ETF. Yeast two-hybrid experiments showed that the Arabidopsis ETFα and ETFβ can form a heteromeric protein. Isolation and characterization of two independent T-DNA insertional Arabidopsis mutants of the ETFβ gene revealed accelerated senescence and early death compared to wild-type during extended darkness. Furthermore in contrast to wild-type, the etfb mutants demonstrated a significant accumulation of several amino acids, isovaleryl CoA and phytanoyl CoA during dark-induced carbohydrate deprivation. These phenotypic characteristics of etfb mutants are broadly similar to those that we observed previously in Arabidopsis etfqo mutants, suggesting functional association between ETF and ETFQO in Arabidopsis, and confirming the essential roles of the ETF/ETFQO electron transfer complex in the catabolism of leucine and involvement in the chlorophyll degradation pathway activated during dark-induced carbohydrate deprivation.
!~RES~! Analysis of the Arabidopsis genome revealed the presence of unique homologues of the α (designated as ETFα; At1g50940) and β (designated as ETFβ; At5g43430) subunits of ETF. ETFα encodes a protein with 67% similarity (48% identical amino acid residues) to human ETFα (accession number P13804), whilst ETFβ encodes a protein with 75% similarity (61% identical amino acid residues) to human ETFβ (accession number P38117). Alignments of the amino acid sequence of Arabidopsis ETFα and ETFβ to their homologues from bacteria to human show high overall similarities. In human ETF, an FAD molecule occupies a cleft between the two subunits, with most of the FAD molecule residing in the C-terminal portion of the α-subunit (CITATION). The alignment shows that the residues directly involved in FAD binding are conserved between Arabidopsis and the other species. Both Arabidopsis ETFα and ETFβ are predicted to be targeted to the mitochondrion by the three commonly used prediction programs, Predotar (http://genoplante-info.infobiogen.fr/predotar/), MitoProt II (CITATION) and PSORT (CITATION). In keeping with this prediction, both proteins were identified in a study of the mitochondrial proteome (CITATION). When taken together, the above observations give strong support to our claim that Arabidopsis ETFα and ETFβ are unique homologues of mammalian ETFα and ETFβ. In mammals, ETF is a heterodimeric protein of two subunits, α and β (CITATION). To investigate whether Arabidopsis ETFα and ETFβ exist as a heteromer as in mammals, we tested whether they could interact with each other by means of a yeast two-hybrid assay. The ETFα ORF lacking the putative mitochondrial targeting peptide and the full-length ETFβ ORF were fused in-frame with the DNA binding domain (BD) and activation domain (AD) of GAL4 protein in the vector. Either the AD::ETFα or the AD::ETFβ constructs were transformed into yeast CG1945 in combination either with BD::ETFα or BD::ETFβ constructs. Yeast cells transformed with a combination of either AD::ETFα and BD::ETFα or AD::ETFβ and BD::ETFβ could grow on non-selective −Trp/Leu medium, but there was little growth of the transformed yeast cells when grown on selective −Trp/Leu/His medium (Figure 1). In contrast, yeast cells co-transformed with AD::ETFα and BD::ETFβ grew on both −Trp/Leu and −Trp/Leu/His media (Figure 1), revealing that a physical interaction had occurred between ETFα and ETFβ. A similar result was also obtained from the reciprocal AD::ETFβ and BD::ETFα co-transformation. The interactions between ETFα and ETFβ were additionally confirmed with the filter lift β-galactosidase assay (data not shown). These results indicated interaction between ETFα and ETFβ in yeast, whereas we did not detect homomeric interaction for either. These data thus suggest that Arabidopsis ETFα and ETFβ form a heteromeric protein as found in mammals. [[FIGURE]] In our previous study, we showed that expression of Arabidopsis ETFQO is highly induced under sucrose-starved conditions (CITATION). In order to investigate whether the expression of ETFα and ETFβ genes is regulated in similar manner, we performed co-expression analysis of these genes. Both ETFα and ETFβ genes are represented on the Affymetrix ATH1 Genome Array, and analysis of microarray data stored in the GENEVESTIGATOR database (CITATION) revealed that ETFα and ETFβ transcripts are expressed constitutively at low levels in all plant tissues, developmental states and stress responses. Moreover, unlike ETFQO, they were not highly expressed in dark-induced senescent leaves (CITATION), or sucrose-starved cell cultures (CITATION; CITATION). Transcript levels of ETFα and ETFβ were measured by RNA gel blot analysis in 4-week-old Arabidopsis leaves following transfer to darkness. During dark adaptation, transcripts from the light-regulated photosynthetic gene, Cab, gradually declined (Figure 2a), whereas the ETFQO and IVD transcripts accumulated markedly as was observed previously (CITATION). In contrast, the levels of both ETFα and ETFβ transcripts remain unchanged (Figure 2a). [[FIGURE]] Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells were used to investigate the effects of sucrose depletion on the transcript levels of the ETFα, ETFβ and ETFQO genes. Figure 2(b) shows that sucrose depletion triggered a marked accumulation of the IVD and ETFQO gene transcripts, whereas the transcripts levels of the sucrose-inducible gene, NR2, showed the opposite response. In this experiment, the transcript levels of ETFα and ETFβ were invariant throughout the time course of sucrose depletion (Figure 2b). These observations suggest that while sucrose starvation induces expression of the ETFQO gene, it has no effect on the levels of either the ETFα or ETFβ transcripts, which remain at a constant level irrespective of sugar status. To investigate the in vivo functions of the ETF protein, two independent Arabidopsis lines were isolated that contained T-DNA elements inserted in the ETFβ gene. Segregation analysis of the encoded antibiotic resistance markers in the two insertional elements were in good agreement with the 3:1 (resistant:susceptible) ratio that suggests insertion at a single Mendelian locus. Homozygous lines for each mutant were confirmed by genomic PCR and designated etfb-1 and etfb-2, respectively. The respective sites of insertion of these mutants were confirmed by sequencing of PCR products amplified from each mutant (Figure 3a). [[FIGURE]] RT-PCR using a primer pair designed to span the T-DNA insertion site of two mutant loci was used to investigate ETFβ transcription. The Arabidopsis β-tubulin gene, TUB9, and the ETFQO gene were used as controls to demonstrate the integrity of the RNA preparation. ETFβ mRNAs were detected in wild-type (Col0) using the primer set L2/R1; however, no amplification products were observed for the transcripts in etfb-1 and etfb-2 (Figure 3b). These results confirm that transcripts spanning the T-DNA insertion site are absent in these mutant lines. Having established the molecular identity of the T-DNA insertional mutants, they were grown in soil under long-day conditions alongside the corresponding wild-type controls. Under these conditions, there was no visible phenotype in the mutants during the early stage of vegetative growth; however, in the reproductive stage, both etfb-1 and etfb-2 plants often produced shorter siliques with a lower number of seeds than wild-type (Col0) (data not shown), as was previously observed in etfqo-1 and etfqo-2 mutants (CITATION). When 5-week-old etfb mutant and etfqo mutant lines grown under short-day conditions were transferred to constant dark conditions, a dramatic phenotype became apparent. All of the etfb and etfqo mutant lines started to wilt and show signs of senescence after 10 days of continuous darkness, and were apparently dead after 15 days of continuous darkness, whereas wild-type plants displayed no visible abnormalities even after 15 days of continuous darkness (Figure 4a). To further investigate this apparent accelerated senescence in the etfb mutants, we measured two parameters related to the function of chloroplasts, chlorophyll content and photochemical efficiency (FV/ FM), as diagnostic of leaf senescence (CITATION). The chlorophyll contents of etfb mutants were significantly lower than those of wild-type at 7 and 10 days of extended darkness (Figure 4b), and the decline of chlorophyll content was accompanied by a decrease in the photochemical efficiency of photosystem II (FV/ FM) (Figure 4b). This result indicates that the process of senescence is more rapid in etfb mutants than wild-type plants during extended dark conditions. [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether etfb mutants show similar metabolic changes to those observed in etfqo mutants, we analyzed the metabolite profiles of etfb mutants during long-term darkness. First, we analyzed changes in acyl CoAs in wild-type and etfb mutants during the extended dark treatment using the method of CITATION. The results, shown in Figure 5(a), demonstrate a dramatic increase in the amount of isovaleryl CoA in the etfb-1 and etfb-2 mutants, whereas in wild-type it was below the limit of detection throughout the experiment. Isovaleryl CoA is an intermediate of the leucine catabolic pathway, being subsequently dehydrogenated to 3-methylcrotonyl CoA by isovaleryl CoA dehydrogenase. These results thus indicate the involvement of Arabidopsis ETF in leucine catabolism. Disruption of the electron transfer function presumably compromises dehydrogenase activity and leads to accumulation of the isovaleryl CoA substrate. The acyl CoA profiles also showed a dramatically increased content of phytanoyl –CoA, which is a known breakdown product of phytol, in etfb-1 and etfb-2 mutants (Figure 5b), relative to wild-type, during extended dark treatment. Our data thus suggest that Arabidopsis ETF is also involved in phytol degradation. [[FIGURE]] Further metabolomic characterization of etfb mutants was performed using a non-biased GC-MS metabolic profiling protocol (Figure 6a), allowing the simultaneous determination of in excess of 100 compounds (CITATION). The levels of four amino acids (arginine, asparagine, glutamine and tryptophan), for which only poor quality mass spectral tags were detected (CITATION), were measured by HPLC analysis (Figure 6b). As expected, the extended dark treatment led to a rapid decline in sucrose and hexose contents in both the wild-type and etfb mutants (Figure 6). Most of the free amino acids, including arginine, asparagine, aspartate, leucine, isoleucine, threonine, tryptophan, valine and phenylalanine, increased significantly in both wild-type and etfb mutants, suggesting that protein degradation was elevated under these conditions (Figure 6). The significantly elevated levels of several amino acids, in particular the branched chain amino acids leucine, isoleucine and valine, in the etfb mutants, suggest involvement of ETF in their degradation pathways. Glutamic acid, pyroglutamic acid and glutamine concentration declined in the etfb mutants at 7–10 days, whereas they increased in wild-type (Figure 6). [[FIGURE]] The characteristics of the metabolic responses described above were very similar to those observed on analysis of etfqo mutants, indicating that mutation in either the ETFβ or ETFQO genes results in a very similar change in amino acid metabolism. Prompted by this observation, we chose to carry out statistical analysis of the entire metabolite dataset collected for both sets of mutants. shows a hierarchical cluster analysis (HCA) of this combined dataset; given that a fair level of natural variation exists between biological replicates of a given genotype, we chose to plot data represented in each independent chromatogram rather than using the means presented in Figure 6. Several interesting features are apparent in this cluster analysis. The metabolite complements of both mutants and the wild-type are highly similar at the start of the experiment (day 0), forming a single cluster. Similarly, the vast majority of the samples harvested 3 days after transfer to continuous darkness formed a single cluster in which the individual genotypes are not fully separable. Samples from the extended dark treatments (day 7 and day 10) can be discriminated from one another in the mutants but not in the wild-type, most probably because of the high accumulation of certain metabolic intermediates in the mutants. The metabolic complements of the etfb and etfqo mutants can also be clearly discriminated from one another at this time point, suggesting that, despite the fact that they display very similar changes to each other in response to dark-induced carbohydrate deprivation, there are subtle differences in their metabolic complements at the end of the experiment. In order to further evaluate these differences, we applied principle component analysis (PCA). This discriminant analysis maximizes the separation between samples, and when applied to the full data set was able to resolve both the mutants from the wild-type (and to a lesser extent from one another) as well as the different periods of darkness. Analysis of the PCA loadings revealed that the metabolites threonine, fumarate, glucose, inositol, arginine, shikimate and the branched chain amino acids were instrumental in separating the samples.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were surface-sterilized and imbibed for 4 days at 4°C in the dark on 0.8% w/v agar plates containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium, pH 5.7 (Sigma-Aldrich Co. Ltd, Poole, UK). Seeds were subsequently germinated and grown at 22°C under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark) with 150 μmol m−2 sec−1 white light. For examination of phenotype under long-day conditions, seedlings were transferred to soil 7–10 days after germination and placed in a growth chamber at 22°C under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark). For dark treatment, the 7–10-day-old seedlings were grown at 22°C under short-day conditions (8 h light/16 h dark) for 4 weeks, and, following bolting, the plants were grown at 22°C in the dark in the same growth cabinet. The fully expanded 7th to 12th rosette leaves were harvested at intervals of 0, 3, 7 and 10 days from control and dark-grown plants for the subsequent analysis. Arabidopsis thaliana var. Landsberg erecta cell suspension cultures were maintained as described previously (CITATION). The normal medium used for maintenance of this cell culture was Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with 3% w/v sucrose, 0.5 mg l−1 naphthaleneacetic acid and 0.05 mg l−1 kinetin (CITATION), and the medium used for sucrose starvation was Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with 85 mm sorbitol, 0.5 mg l−1 naphthaleneacetic acid and 0.05 mg l−1 kinetin. For sucrose starvation, 6-day-old dark-grown cells were collected on sterile 188 μm nylon mesh, transferred to the medium lacking sucrose, harvested at the time points described by vacuum filtration, and snap frozen in liquid nitrogen. All experimental procedures relating to Figure 1 were performed as described by CITATION. The DNA fragment of the ETFα ORF lacking the mitochondrial targeting signal and the full-length ETFβ ORF were fused into pGADT7 (AD) (Clontech) and pGBKT7 (BD) (Clontech, Mountain View, CA, USA). The AD and BD constructs were co-transformed into the yeast strain CG1945 by the lithium acetate method, and grown on non-selective −Trp/Leu medium, a synthetic minimal medium lacking tryptophan and leucine, at 30°C for 3–4 days. The clones were further grown on selective −Trp/Leu/His medium, a synthetic minimal medium lacking tryptophan, leucine and histidine and containing 2.5 mm 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole, at 30°C for 3–4 days to test interactions. For β-galactosidase assay, yeast cells grown for 48 h at 30°C were transferred onto filter paper, and the clones were lyzed in liquid nitrogen for 30 sec, and then incubated in Z buffer (60 mm Na2HPO4, 40 mm NaH2PO4, 10 mm KCl, and 1 mm MgSO4, pH 7.0) containing 50 mmβ-mercaptoethanol and 1 mm 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indol-β-d-galactopyranoside (X-gal) at 30°C and monitored for the appearance of a blue colour change indicating β-galactosidase activity. Total RNA was isolated from light-grown controls, dark-treated leaves and from cell suspension culture using the TRIzol® reagent (Invitrogen, Paisley, UK). cDNA fragments for ETFα, ETFβ, ETFQO (At2g43400), isovaleryl CoA dehydrogenase (IVD, At3g45300), chlorophyll a/b binding protein (Cab, At3g47470) and nitrate reductase (NR2, At1g37130) were amplified from Arabidopsis cDNA by PCR. RNA was fractionated by electrophoresis on 1% w/v agarose gels, blotted onto positively charged nylon membrane, and hybridized at 65°C with the appropriate cDNA probes labelled with [α-32 P]dCTP using the MegaPrime kit (GE Healthcare, Little Chalfront, UK). The hybridized membrane was washed for 1 h in a solution containing 2x SSC and 0.1% w/v SDS at 25°C, followed by two washes with 0.1x SSC and 0.5% w/v SDS at 55°C for 1 h. The two T-DNA mutant lines, Syngenta Arabidopsis insertion lines SAIL_237_D11 (etfb-1) and SAIL_707_E02 (etfb-2), were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (University of Nottingham, UK). Their background ecotype is Columbia. Genotypes of the different knockout mutant lines were analyzed by PCR using primers specific for the ETFβ ORF (L1, 5′-TGTTGCAACCGTGGATAGAG-3′ and R1, 5′-ACCCCAGATTTCCTCTTTGG-3′ for etfb-1, and L2, 5′-TCCGAGTCAAACCCGATAAG-3′ and R2, 5′-AAGCTGCAACCATCTGTCCT-3′ for etfb-1), and a primer specific for the insertion elements (TMR1_LB1, 5′-GCCTTTTCAGAAATGGATAAATAGCCTTGCTTCC-3′). Total RNA was isolated using the TRIzol® reagent (Invitrogen) from rosette leaves of plants grown for 3 days in the dark. First-strand cDNA was synthesized from 10 μg of total RNA using Superscript II RNase H− reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) and oligo(dT) primer. PCR amplification of the ETFβ cDNA specific sequence was performed using primers specific for the ORF (L2 and R1 described above). PCR amplification of the cDNA encoding the ETFQO of Arabidopsis (At2g43400) was performed using primers L2 and R1 described previously (CITATION). PCR amplification of the cDNA encoding the β-tubulin of Arabidopsis (TUB9, At4g20890) was performed with forward primer 5′-GATATCTGTTTCCGTACCTTGAAGC-3′ and reverse primer 5′-ACCGACTGTAGCATCTTGATATTGC-3′, and served as a control. Chlorophyll concentration per fresh weight FW of leaf tissue was measured as described previously (CITATION). Photochemical efficiency was examined at the given time points for the dark treatment, using attached leaves of wild-type (Col0) and etfb mutants. The photochemical efficiency of photosystem II (PSII) was deduced from the characteristics of chlorophyll fluorescence using a portable plant efficiency analyzer (Hansatech Instruments, King's Lynn, UK). The ratio of maximum variable fluorescence (FV) to maximum yield of fluorescence (FM), which corresponds to the potential quantum yield of the photochemical reactions of PSII, was used as the measure of the photochemical efficiency of PSII (CITATION). Acyl CoAs were measured using the method of Larson and Graham with the modifications as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Identification of the isovaleryl CoA peak in the etfb-1 mutant was carried out as described previously (CITATION). Metabolite analysis by GC-MS was carried out essentially using the method described by CITATION with the modifications described by CITATION and CITATION. Hierarchical cluster analysis was carried out exactly as described by CITATION.
