!~ABS~! In Arabidopsis, a complex of Polycomb-group (PcG) proteins functions in the female gametophyte to control the initiation of seed development. Mutations in the PcG genes, including MEDEA (MEA) and FERTILIZATION-INDEPENDENT SEED 2 (FIS2), produce autonomous seeds where endosperm proliferation occurs in the absence of fertilization. By using a yeast two-hybrid screen, we identified MEA and a related protein, SWINGER (SWN), as SET-domain partners of FIS2. Localization data indicated that all three proteins are present in the female gametophyte. Although single-mutant swn plants did not show any defects, swn mutations enhanced the mea mutant phenotype in producing autonomous seeds. Thus, MEA and SWN perform partially redundant functions in controlling the initiation of endosperm development before fertilization in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! To identify FIS2-interacting proteins, we isolated a full-length FIS2 cDNA clone using RT-PCR and 5′-RACE. FIS2 is composed of a 5′ untranslated region of 159 bp, an ORF of 2,442 bp, and a 3′ untranslated region of 198 bp (Fig. 4, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). Our data indicate that FIS2 should encode a protein of 813 aa, which is 121 aa longer than was reported as a full-length FIS2 product (CITATION). In earlier studies, FIS2 failed to interact with both MEA and FIE in Y2H assays (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). We initially performed directed Y2H assays with our full-length FIS2, FIE, and MEA to test whether the reported lack of interaction between FIS2 and MEA could be due to the absence of the extra 121 aa of FIS2 in the previous assays. As shown in FIG-REF A and B, FIS2 interacted with MEA but not with FIE. However, FIE and MEA showed interactions as described (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), indicating that all of our clones produced functional proteins. Further analyses (see below) indicated that the extended N-terminal amino acids of FIS2 are not required for interaction with MEA. The lack of interaction between FIS2 and MEA reported previously (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION) might have been due to instability, improper folding, or reduced accumulation of the FIS2 fusion protein. Nevertheless, we identified the SET-domain PcG MEA as a likely interacting partner of FIS2. [[FIGURE]] To identify additional FIS2-interacting proteins, we screened a Y2H library constructed from reproductive organs of Arabidopsis using a FIS2-GAL4BD bait plasmid. One of the clones identified encoded the C-terminal region (amino acids 202–689) of the MEA protein, indicating that this screen identified relevant binding partners. A second class of clones encoded full-length or partial SWN polypeptides (CITATION, CITATION). To determine whether these interactions are specific or whether they represent a general affinity between FIS2 and all SET-domain PcG proteins, we used directed Y2H assays to test for FIS2 interactions with MEA, SWN, and CURLY LEAF (CLF), a SET-domain PcG protein closely related to MEA and SWN (CITATION, CITATION). As shown in FIG-REF B, FIS2 showed significantly weaker interaction with CLF than with the other SET-PcG proteins. The reduced interaction was not due to differences in fusion protein stability or expression level, because all three SET-PcG proteins interacted with FIE (FIG-REF B). Together, these data indicate that the FIS2–MEA and FIS2–SWN interactions are specific and that FIS2 does not interact with SET-domain PcG proteins indiscriminately. To determine the regions of the FIS2 protein required for interaction with SET-domain PcG proteins, we generated a series of FIS2 truncations and examined their interactions with MEA using Y2H assays. As shown in FIG-REF A, a 110-aa C-terminal portion of FIS2 (FIS2703–813) was necessary and sufficient for interaction with MEA. This region contains part of the Zn-finger-PcG-specific VRN2-EMF2-FIS2-Su(z)12 (VEFS) domain (CITATION) and the nonconserved C-terminal region of FIS2 (CITATION). Y2H assays indicated that the more N-terminal regions of FIS2, including the Zn-finger motif and the FIS2-specific AB repeats (CITATION), were not required for interactions with MEA (FIG-REF A). To identify the FIS2 regions required for specificity of protein–protein interaction, we tested interactions between truncated FIS2 polypeptides and CLF using Y2H. An N-terminal-truncated FIS2 protein containing the AB repeats and the C terminus (FIS2234–813) also did not show any significant interaction with a full-length CLF protein (data not shown). However, as compared with the full-length FIS2 protein, the C-terminal portion of FIS2 (FIS2703–813), shown to be sufficient for interaction with MEA (FIG-REF B), displayed an increased level of interaction with CLF (FIG-REF B). The data indicate that the FIS2 C terminus is necessary and sufficient for interaction with SET-domain PcG proteins, and that the specificity of interaction (MEA and SWN vs. CLF) is likely conferred by the adjacent AB repeat region. To confirm the FIS2–MEA and FIS2–SWN Y2H interactions, we performed a series of coimmunoprecipitation assays using in vitro-transcribed and translated versions of FIS2, MEA, and SWN. As shown in FIG-REF C, an anti-myc-epitope antibody was able to precipitate the myc-FIS2 polypeptide (amino acids 641–813) in association with an HA-tagged MEA or SWN but not an HA-tagged FIE. We did not detect an association between an N-terminal FIS2 polypeptide (FIS2 1–237 ) and MEA or SWN (data not shown). Therefore, results of the in vitro coimmunoprecipitation experiments support the Y2H interaction studies. Together, the data indicate that FIS2 is capable of interacting with MEA and SWN SET-domain PcG proteins specifically and that the C-terminal region of FIS2 is sufficient for this interaction. The protein-interaction studies discussed above suggest that FIS2 interacts with MEA and SWN during plant development. To identify the stages of plant development in which FIS2–MEA and FIS2–SWN interactions may take place, we analyzed MEA, FIS2, and SWN expression throughout the plant using RT-PCR and through the analysis of protein fusion constructs. As shown in Fig. 5, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site, FIS2 and MEA RNAs were mainly detected in reproductive structures, including closed buds, open flowers, and siliques. Unlike MEA and FIS2, SWN transcripts were present at high levels and detectable in both reproductive and vegetative structures (Fig. 5). The data indicate that MEA and SWN gene expression patterns are distinct and suggest that the two genes may perform divergent roles during plant development. To determine the patterns of localization for all three proteins, we generated protein fusion constructs and introduced these into Arabidopsis plants. SWN-GFP/yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fusion proteins were detected in the nucleus throughout most of the plant life cycle including ovule and FG development (FIG-REFI–VI and A–F and 3A; see also Fig. 6, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site), embryo development (FIG-REF B and C), and vegetative development (FIG-REF D–F). After fertilization, SWN-GFP was down-regulated rapidly within developing endosperm (FIG-REF G–J) and was not observed beyond the first or second rounds of endosperm mitosis (FIG-REF G and H). However, expression persisted throughout embryogenesis and within vegetative structures after seed germination (FIG-REF). No SWN-GFP/YFP signal was observed in developing and mature pollen grains (data not shown). The data indicate that SWN is nuclear-localized and has a broad pattern of accumulation during the Arabidopsis life cycle. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To compare the expression of SWN with FIS2 and MEA, we analyzed the expression of FIS2-YFP (FIG-REF K–O) and MEA-YFP (FIG-REF P–T) during similar stages of development, as outlined above. As shown in FIG-REF K–T, FIS2-YFP and MEA-YFP fusion proteins were detectable only in the late-developing central cell [stages FG6 and FG7 (CITATION); FIG-REF K and P] and early-developing endosperm. Within the central cell, FIS2-YFP and MEA-YFP were detected in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm (FIG-REF K and P). After fertilization, FIS2- and MEA-YFP showed a similar pattern of expression and were associated with the dividing nuclear cytoplasmic domains (CITATION). Unlike SWN-GFP/YFP, FIS2-YFP and MEA-YFP activities were detectable during much of the nuclear phase of endosperm development (FIG-REF L–O, Q–T) until the early heart stage of embryo development (FIG-REF O and T). The FIS2 and MEA protein localization patterns during development are consistent with their role in repressing proliferation of the central cell nucleus before fertilization and control of early endosperm development. Taken together, the data identify overlapping patterns of expression for SWN, FIS2, and MEA and suggest a role for SWN in the regulation of proliferation of the central cell nucleus. Protein interaction (FIG-REF) and expression (FIG-REF) studies suggest that SWN plays a role in repressing endosperm development before fertilization. To test this, we obtained three swn T-DNA alleles (CITATION) and analyzed these for defects in FG and seed development. With all three alleles, heterozygous and homozygous plants did not exhibit morphological abnormalities in vegetative or reproductive development, including seed-set defects. Heterozygous and homozygous swn plants did not show consistent autonomous seed development or silique elongation in the absence of fertilization (Table 1; see also Fig. 7 A–C and G–I, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). Fertilization-independent development in swn, mea, and swn;mea double-mutant plants The absence of a phenotype for swn single mutants may be due to functional redundancy or compensation between SWN and MEA. To test this, we generated swn;mea-3 double-mutant plants for all three swn alleles and analyzed these for autonomous seed development and the associated autonomous silique elongation. As shown in Table 1 and Fig. 7J, 3–12% of ovules gave rise to seed-like structures in mea-3/+ plants. By contrast, in swn-3/+;mea-3/+ and swn-3/swn-3;mea-3/+ double-mutant plants, 24% and 37–49% of ovules, respectively, developed into seed-like structures in the absence of fertilization (Table 1 and Fig. 7 K and L). Similar results showing a more-than-additive increase in the number of autonomous seeds were obtained for swn-2 and -4 alleles in combinations with mea-3 (Table 1). These data indicate that most of the FGs inheriting both the swn-3 and mea-3 mutant alleles developed autonomously. In addition, all double-mutant combinations of the swn alleles and mea-3 (including double heterozygotes) exhibited an enhanced silique elongation phenotype compared with mea-3/+ single-mutant plants (Table 1). Therefore, swn mutations enhanced the number of autonomous seeds forming in mea plants (and consequently the length of autonomous siliques) indicating functional overlap between MEA and SWN in the control of seed initiation before fertilization. To determine the extent of autonomous endosperm development on a seed basis, we measured the size of autonomous seeds formed in swn;mea-3 double mutants and compared them with mea single-mutant plants. The average sizes of autonomous seeds were significantly different (P < 0.001, two-sample Student’s t test) between mea-3/+ single-mutant (0.043 mm 3 , n = 47) and swn-3/swn-3;mea-3/+ double-mutant (0.124 mm 3 , n = 55) plants. Microscopic analysis indicated that the autonomous seeds obtained from emasculated swn-4/swn-4;mea-3/+ double-mutant plants produced more free-nuclear autonomous endosperm than mea-3/+ single-mutant plants (Fig. 8, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). Thus, the swn;mea-3 mutant plants exhibit an enhanced penetrance for development of the autonomous seeds as compared to mea single-mutant plants; they show an increase in the frequency of individual mutant FGs capable of producing autonomous seeds and an increase in the quantity of autonomous endosperm proliferation in each mutant FG. Together, our data indicate that SWN performs a partially redundant role to MEA in controlling seed initiation by helping to suppress central cell nucleus/endosperm proliferation within the FG.
!~MM~! The swn-2 and -3 alleles described in ref. CITATION and the swn-4 allele (SALK_109121) were obtained from the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory (CITATION) through the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. The mea-3 mutant allele was originally obtained in Ler (CITATION). Details on the single- and double-mutant genotypes used for the analysis of phenotypes and the relevant growth conditions are provided as Supporting Text, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site. Standard procedures were used to clone a full-length FIS2 cDNA and to analyze mRNA accumulation patterns using RT-PCR (see Supporting Text). A detailed description of constructs used for directed Y2H studies, Y2H library construction, and the bait for the Y2H screen is provided as Supporting Text. The Matchmaker Co-IP kit (BD Biosciences, Heidelberg, Germany) was used according to the manufacturer’s protocol. All proteins were synthesized by using the TnT T7 quick-coupled transcription/translation system (Promega, Madison, WI) in the presence of [35S]methionine (Amersham Pharmacia, Uppsala, Sweden). The cDNA clones of FIE, MEA, SWN, and FIS2 in pGADT7 or pGBKT7 vectors were used as templates for in vitro protein synthesis, as described in Supporting Text. Because of the difficulty in expressing a full-length version of FIS2 in vitro, we used a myc-tagged FIS2 C-terminal fragment (amino acids 641–813) in combination with full-length MEA and SWN proteins tagged with an HA epitope. Construction and transformation of Arabidopsis with the SWN-GFP/YFP, FIS2-GFP/YFP, and MEA-YFP transgenes were carried out by using standard methods (see Supporting Text). Thirty-one, 10, 18, 21, and 12 independent Kanamycin-resistant T 1 plants were generated for SWN-GFP, SWN-YFP, FIS2-GFP, FIS2-YFP, and MEA-YFP constructs, respectively. FIS2-GFP/YFP and MEA-YFP showed consistent patterns of transgene expression. All SWN-GFP/YFP lines (31 and 10) showed nuclear localization of GFP/YFP within the FG (FIG-REF B–F and 6). The majority of SWN-GFP (27 of 31) and SWN-YFP (8 of 10) lines showed high levels of GFP/YFP signal in integument cells (FIG-REF A and 6). The remaining SWN-GFP (FIG-REF A–J) and SWN-YFP (data not shown) lines displayed low levels of GFP/YFP signal in integument cells. Ovules, seeds, roots, and leaves were excised and imaged as described (CITATION). Autonomous seeds were fixed, cleared, and imaged following a published protocol (CITATION). Bright-field and epifluorescence images were obtained by using an Axiophot compound epifluorescence microscope (Zeiss, Jena, Germany) equipped with a GFP bandpass filter (exciter 450–490, dichroic 495, emitter 500–550; Chroma Technology, Brattleboro, VT), YFP bandpass filter (exciter 490–510, dichroic 515, emitter 520–550; Chroma Technology), and FITC longpass filter (exciter 450–490, dichroic 510, emitter 515; Zeiss). Intact and dissected siliques were analyzed and imaged by using an SZX stereomicroscope (Olympus, Melville, NY). All microscopic images were captured by using an Optronics MicroFire (Goleta, CA) CCD camera and processed with Photoshop CS (Adobe Systems, San Jose, CA). Flowers corresponding to stages 12B–12C (CITATION) were emasculated from two to three individual plants for each genotype. After 7 days, siliques and autonomous seeds were imaged, and the numbers of autonomous seeds developing per silique were recorded. Methods for measuring silique length and autonomous seed size are provided as Supporting Text. Data for silique length and percentage of autonomous seed were analyzed by using PROC GLM in SAS (CITATION), assuming a mixed-effects model (see Supporting Text). Data for autonomous seed size were analyzed by using Student’s t test (see Supporting Text). Statistical significance was assigned at P = 0.05 throughout.
