!~ABS~! Cold acclimation and over-wintering by herbaceous plants are energetically expensive and are dependent on functional plastid metabolism. To understand how the stroma and the lumen proteomes adapt to low temperatures, we have taken a proteomic approach (difference gel electrophoresis) to identify proteins that changed in abundance in Arabidopsis chloroplasts during cold shock (1 day), and short- (10 days) and long-term (40 days) acclimation to 5°C. We show that cold shock (1 day) results in minimal change in the plastid proteomes, while short-term (10 days) acclimation results in major changes in the stromal but few changes in the lumen proteome. Long-term acclimation (40 days) results in modulation of the proteomes of both compartments, with new proteins appearing in the lumen and further modulations in protein abundance occurring in the stroma. We identify 43 differentially displayed proteins that participate in photosynthesis, other plastid metabolic functions, hormone biosynthesis and stress sensing and signal transduction. These findings not only provide new insights into the cold response and acclimation of Arabidopsis, but also demonstrate the importance of studying changes in protein abundance within the relevant cellular compartment.
!~RES~! We have used two-dimensional DIGE as a qualitative and quantitative proteomic tool to examine changes to the two soluble chloroplast proteomes, the stroma and the lumen, in A. thaliana leaves during cold shock (1 day) as well as short- and long-term cold acclimation. Plants were grown at warm (23°C) temperatures and after 30 days, when fully mature source leaves had developed, a subset of plants were sampled for controls (d0 leaves) and the remaining plants were shifted to a day/night temperature regime of 5/5°C. After 1 day (d1 leaves) and 10 days (d10 leaves) at 5°C, source leaves that had completed expansion before transfer to low temperature were sampled to analyse acclimation in pre-existing leaves. After 40 days at 5°C, source leaves that had developed at 5°C (d40 leaves) were sampled to investigate acclimation processes requiring modification during leaf development at 5°C . Proteins isolated from these different treatments were labelled with cyanine dye Cy2, Cy3 or Cy5 and, after electrophoresis, the images were overlaid for analysis. When the proteins present on all 12 separate gel images from each set of experiments were considered (see Table 1), the total stromal proteome could be resolved into 450 protein spots (Figure 1a). By virtue of the CyDyes (GE Healthcare, Uppsala, Sweden), DIGE fluor minimal dyes are matched for charge and molecular weight so that the same protein labelled with any of these dyes migrates to the same position on a two-dimensional gel, offering good qualitative comparability between fluorescent and conventional staining technology (Figure 1b). The total luminal proteome could similarly be resolved into 256 protein spots (Figure 1c,d) and the gels showed a similar pattern to that published previously (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To identify the proteins that change in abundance, we used the biological variation analysis mode of the decyder software (GE Healthcare) for gel-to-gel matching of the standard spot maps from each gel. The abundance of each protein spot on a gel was calculated as a ratio with its corresponding spot in the internal standard present in the same gel. The data were filtered to retain only those spots that showed statistically significant (anova; P < 0.05) and greater than twofold changes in abundance. Using these very strict criteria, it was clear that no substantive changes occurred in the stromal proteome within the first day at 5°C. However, over time the chloroplast stromal proteome became more responsive to change, showing that 12% (52) of the protein spots had changed in abundance by day 10 (d10 leaves). This included 7% (31) that were more abundant, 3% (13) that were less abundant and 2% (eight protein spots) that were new to the proteome (Figure 2a). Following the development of new leaves at low temperature (d40 leaves), an additional 5% (23) of the proteins spots either increased or decreased in abundance and, in addition to modulation of pre-existing proteins, two new protein spots appeared in the d40 stromal samples (Figure 2a). These changes in protein abundance in the stromal compartment could be resolved into three distinct clusters: a group of proteins responding to cold shock that increased in abundance in d10 leaves but returned to warm growth levels in d40 leaves (Figure 3a); a second group responding to long-term cold acclimation that increased in d10 leaves and remained enriched in the stroma in d40 leaves, or only increased in abundance in the cold developed d40 leaves (Figure 3b); and a third group that showed reduced abundance in the cold in both d10 and d40 leaves (Figure 3c). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] A total of 75 protein spots were found to change in abundance in the stromal proteome during cold acclimation. All of these protein spots were subjected to peptide mass fingerprint analysis by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry (MS) and, for some, additional post-source decay analysis was used in order to identify the proteins. From these analyses we were able to identify 64 of the 75 protein spots examined. Because some of these proteins were present in several spots (e.g. RuBisCO), 43 different proteins were identified as changing in abundance in the chloroplast stroma during cold acclimation. Careful bioinformatic analysis of these proteins revealed the presence of some non-chloroplastic contaminants, so to avoid confusion these proteins were not used in further classification. The remaining 35 proteins that we considered to be part of the chloroplast stromal proteome, and that showed significant changes in abundance in any of the samples during cold acclimation, are shown in Tables 2 and 3.  aFunctional classification according to MAPman BIN (CITATION); PS = photosynthesis; bn.d. = not determined; cn.a. = not appearing (i.e. protein spot not present in control or d1 but only appeared in d10 or d40 samples). NAD, nicotinamide adenine; TCA, tricarboxylic acid cycle.  aFunctional classification according to MAPman BIN (CITATION); PS = photosynthesis.  bnd = not determined.  cGene ambiguously identified for any of the five spots. Stromal proteins that showed significant changes in abundance during cold acclimation were classified into different categories according to the MapMan BIN system (CITATION). In a recent study using this classification system it was shown that proteins involved in the Calvin cycle, glycolysis, oxidative pentose phosphate pathway and photorespiration represent approximately 76% of the total stromal protein mass (CITATION). Accordingly, the dominant group of proteins changing in abundance in our analysis was nine different Calvin cycle proteins (Tables 2 and 3). Of these, the large and small subunits of RuBisCO increased in abundance during cold acclimation, although there was some variability with respect to which protein spot was examined (Table 3). Associated with these changes in RuBisCO, a RuBisCO subunit binding protein (protein folding factor – At1g55490) also increased in abundance while, curiously, RuBisCO activase decreased in abundance (Table 2). Of the remaining proteins, five were involved in redox regulation and reactive oxygen scavenging, including monodehydroascorbate reductase and two 2-Cys peroxiredoxins (2-Cys Prx A & B) that were reduced in abundance, and an M-type thioredoxin (Trx m). We also identified catalase-2 (At4g35090) as increasing in abundance in the stroma (Table 2). At present it is not clear whether there is catalase activity in the plastid and the plastid localization for catalase-2 is not certain. However, ChloroP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP/) shows a positive score for a chloroplast location for catalase-2, and this is the only form of the three catalase sequences reported in Arabidopsis that shows a chloroplast transit peptide with this programme. On the other hand, using the C-terminus for analysis, PTS1 predictor (http://mendel.imp.ac.at/mendeljsp/sat/pts1/PTS1predictor.jsp) targets all three catalase proteins to peroxisomes and TargetP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) and Predotar (http://urgi.infobiogen.fr/predotar/predotar.html). do not recognize a chloroplast targeting sequence for the catalase-2 protein, so it is possible that this is a peroxisomal contaminant in our stromal preparation. We have nevertheless included catalase-2 in Table 2 because ChloroP suggests plastid targeting for this particular catalase. Two additional proteins with proposed roles in tolerance to oxidative stress, glyoxalase I and glutathione S-transferase (GST), also increase in abundance in the cold and, based on TargetP analysis of the current gene model in The Institute for Genomic Research database, are targeted to the chloroplast. Interestingly, allene oxide cyclase, which catalyses an early step in jasmonic acid (JA) metabolism, was also found to accumulate strongly in the cold. Another significant finding in the stroma was the pronounced accumulation of four subunits (α, β, λ and γ) of the ATP synthase complex. Additional cold-responsive proteins include a fibrillin (At4g04020) and other proteins grouped into organic acid, starch, amino acid and nucleotide metabolism and S-assimilation, with several other proteins not assigned to a bin according to this system (Table 2). Using the same strict criteria for determining the changes in protein abundance as we used for the stroma, the lumen proteome was relatively insensitive to the change in temperature. No change was seen after 1 day in the cold, and only four lumen protein spots showed an increased abundance after 10 days of cold treatment (Figure 2b). In contrast to the stromal proteome, the major changes to the lumen were observed in the d40 leaves that had developed and expanded at 5°C, where 24 protein spots increased at least twofold in abundance (Figure 2b). Of these, 23 protein spots were successfully identified using the combination of peptide mass fingerprint and post-source decay analysis with matrix assisted laser desorption ionization, time of flight (MALDI-TOF) MS, and represented a set of 14 different proteins. Determination of the protein identities revealed the presence of some stromal proteins with non-lumenal location reflecting the fragile condition of the thylakoid membrane. The remaining 16 protein spots that were considered to be part of the lumen proteome, and that showed a minimum of twofold change in abundance during acclimation to the cold (Table 4), represented a set of eight different proteins. These were classified into two distinct categories using the MapMan BIN system: the photosynthesis light reaction bin and the protein bin. In the first category, our result revealed changed abundance for two of the three photosystem II (PSII) extrinsic proteins. Both PsbO and PsbP were identified in several spots (Table 4), which is consistent with the appearance of these proteins in multiple protein spots on two-dimensional gels (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The PsbP1 protein (At1g06680) displayed a complex pattern of changes in abundance during cold acclimation, and it was found in four different spots and was one of only two proteins showing a change (more abundant) in the day 10 lumen fraction (Table 4). In the protein bin, we found an FKBP-type immunophilin AtFKBP16-1 (At26555) that previously only was predicted to be localized to the lumen (CITATION; CITATION) but not identified until now. AtFKBP16-1 showed a decrease in abundance in the d40 leaves, as did AtFKBP18 (At1g20810) and the PSII assembly factor HCF136 (At5g23120) (Table 4). In contrast, a cyclophilin type immunophilin AtCYP20-2 (At5g13120) increased in abundance in both d10 and d40 samples (Table 4), suggesting an important function for this protein in the lumen during cold acclimation.  aFunctional classification according to MAPman BIN (CITATION); PS = photosynthesis.  bn.a. = not appearing (i.e. protein spot not present in control or d1 but only appears as new in d10 or d40 samples).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana L. (Heynh.) (ecotype Col-0) seeds were germinated under controlled environmental conditions: 150 μmol photons m−2 sec−1; day/night temperature regime 23/18°C; photoperiod 8 h. After 30 days, when fully mature source leaves had developed (d0), the plants were shifted to a day/night temperature regime of 5/5°C. After 1 and 10 days at 5°C, source leaves that had completed expansion before transfer to low temperature were used to investigate the acclimation response in pre-existing leaves (d1 and d10 plants, respectively). After 40 days at 5°C, source leaves that had fully developed at 5°C were sampled to investigate acclimation processes requiring modification during leaf development, d40. For chloroplast isolation and protein extraction, approximately 100 g of fully developed leaves were collected from d0, d1, d10 and d40 plants. This sampling and protein preparation were repeated from three independently grown batches of plants, to give three independent biological replicates. The stroma and luminal content from Arabidopsis chloroplasts were isolated according to CITATION optimized for Arabidopsis according to CITATION and CITATION with the following minor change for the d40 samples: to allow better chloroplast integrity, 900-mm sorbitol was added to the preparation and wash media. We used the deoxycholate–trichloracetic acid protocol (CITATION) to precipitate the proteins in the lumen and stroma fractions. The soluble protein fractions were prepared as described in CITATION and solubilized into the Ettan DIGE-(GE Healthcare) compatible lysis buffer [7-m urea, 2-m thiourea, 4% CHAPS (w/v), 30-mm Tris (pH 8.5)]. Protein quantification was according to Bradford using BSA as a standard (CITATION). Stroma and lumen protein fractions were labelled using the spectrally different fluorescent cyanine Cy2, Cy3 and Cy5 NHS-ester dyes developed for two-dimensional DIGE technology (GE Healthcare), which react with the epsilon amino group of lysine residues in proteins. The ‘pooled standard’ sample was prepared by pooling 20 μg of protein from each of the 12 samples (i.e. four samples examined in biological triplicates) prior to labelling. Each CyDyeTM (GE Healthcare) DIGE fluor minimal cyanine dye was reconstituted in 99.8% anhydrous dimethylformamide (DMF) (Aldrich, Munich, Germany) and added to labelling reactions in a ratio of 300 pmol CyDye: 37.5 μg protein. The labelling mixture was incubated on ice in the dark for 30 min and the reaction was quenched by addition of 10 nmol of lysine, followed by a 10-min incubation on ice. An equal volume of 2× sample buffer [7-m urea, 2-m thiourea, 4% CHAPS (w/v), 2% DTT (w/v), 2% pH 3–10 PharmalyteTM carrier ampholytes (v/v) (GE Healthcare)] was added to each of the labelled protein samples, and left on ice for 10 min. For each gel, three samples were mixed prior to isoelectric focusing (IEF) on ImmobilineTM immobilised pH gradient (IPG) strips (GE Healthcare). The appropriate volume of rehydration buffer [7-m urea, 2-m thiourea, 4% CHAPS (w/v), 0.2% DTT (w/v), 1% pH 3–10 PharmalyteTM carrier ampholytes (v/v) (GE Healthcare)] was added to each mixed protein sample so that the final total volume was made up to the volume required for the appropriate rehydration of each IPG strip (340 μl). To derive statistical data on changes because of cold acclimation in the chloroplast lumen and stroma proteomes, the experimental design outlined in Table 1 was applied for each chloroplast compartment. The ‘pooled standard’ was always labelled with Cy2, and a total of 12 gels (i.e. two times six gels to take into account experimental variation) were run to obtain statistical analysis of protein expression variation in Arabidopsis chloroplast stroma and lumen proteome during the first 40 days of cold acclimation. All two-dimensional gel separation was performed using standard two-dimensional PAGE equipment and PlusOneTM reagents (GE Healthcare). ImmobilineTM DryStrips (non-linear pH 3–10 , 18 cm) were rehydrated overnight in the presence of the protein sample, overlaid with 2.5 ml DryStrip cover fluid, in an ImmobilineTM DryStrip re-swelling tray (GE Healthcare). IEF was carried out on an IPGphor IEF system (GE Healthcare) consisting of five phases of stepped voltages from 30 to 8000 V with total focusing of 60 000 V h (CITATION). Prior to the second dimension, strips were equilibrated in buffer containing 6-m urea, 100-mm Tris–HCl (pH 8), 30% glycerol (v/w), 2% SDS reduced with 0.5% DTT (w/v). The strips were subsequently alkylated with 4.5% iodoacetamide. The strips were then loaded and run on 12.5% homogenous pre-cast Ettan DALT gels. The strips were using the Ettan DALT Twelve apparatus (GE Healthcare). After SDS–PAGE, the gel was scanned using the TyphoonTM 9400 series Variable Mode Imager (GE Healthcare). The Cy2 images were scanned using a 488-nm laser and an emission filter of 520-nm band pass (BP) 40, the Cy3 images using a 532-nm laser and an emission filter of 580 BP30, and the Cy5 images using a 633-nm laser and a 670-nm BP30 emission filter. All the gels were scanned at 200-μm resolution. Image analysis was performed using the decyder V4.0 software (GE Healthcare). The Cy2, Cy3 and Cy5 images from a single gel were loaded into the software, and all pooled standard/sample gel image pairs were processed by the decyder differential in-gel analysis (DIA) software module to co-detect and differently quantify the protein spots in the images. Each of the individual Cy3 and Cy5 images was assigned an experimental condition, control (d0), d1, d10 or d40 during cold acclimation, and all Cy2 images were assigned as the standards. The 12 DeCyder DIA co-detection runs were defined and administered in an automated fashion using the decyder batch processor. By including the internal standard on each gel in the experiment, together with the individual biological samples, it is possible to measure the abundance of each protein spot on a gel relative to its corresponding spot in the internal standard present on the same gel (i.e. as a ratio). One-way anova analysis was performed for every set of matched spots, comparing the average and standard deviation for a given spot between the d0, d1, d10 and d40 groups to find differences that were significant (anova, P < 0.05) above the experimental variation. The apparent masses of the proteins that were detected on the two-dimensional gels were determined with the decyder software using identified proteins of known masses as a reference. Following DIGE image analysis, all gels were silver-stained (CITATION). The spots of interest already highlighted by the decyder software (statistically significant ratio ± twofold relative to the same spot at d0) were manually excised from the gels and de-stained (CITATION). The in-gel digests were performed using sequence grade modified trypsin (Promega, Falkenberg, Sweden) (CITATION). Protein identification by peptide mass fingerprint and post source decay (PSD) MS/MS analysis was carried out using a Voyager STR-DE mass spectrometer (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA) and in part with an Ultraflex TOF–TOF mass spectrometer (Bruker Täby, Sweden). To analyse the in-gel digested proteins by MALDI-TOF MS, dried droplet preparations were applied (CITATION) using a ready-made solution of the matrix alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid (G2037A) (Aglient Technologies, Kista, Sweden). Weak samples were concentrated and desalted using homemade stop-and-go extraction columns (CITATION). Spectral processing and the generation of mass lists were carried out using the data explorer software from Applied Biosystems and the flexanalysis 2.2 software (Bruker). Database searches were carried out on an in-house Mascot server that was licensed to Umeå University by Matrixscience (http://www.matrixscience.com) using the current version of the NCBInr database. The databases were searched using peptide mass fingerprint spectra and PSD MS/MS spectra. If appropriate, proteins were identified by sequence queries that included both types of data (CITATION; CITATION). The search parameters restricted the error for peptide masses to 50 ppm and for MS/MS fragments to 0.5 Da, and allowed up to two missed cleavage sites. The instrument type specified for MS/MS ion searches was MALDI-TOF-TOF. By default, the search parameters included fixed carbamidomethylation of cysteine and variable oxidation of methionine.
