!~ABS~! MADS-domain transcription factors are essential for proper flower and seed development in angiosperms and their role in determination of floral organ identity can be described by the ‘ABC model’ of flower development. Recently, close relatives of the B-type genes were identified by phylogenetic studies, which are referred to as Bsister (Bs) genes. Here, we report the isolation and characterization of a MADS-box Bs member from petunia, designated FBP24. An fbp24 knock-down line appeared to closely resemble the Arabidopsis Bs mutant abs and a detailed and comparative analysis led to the conclusion that both FBP24 and ABS are necessary to determine the identity of the endothelial layer within the ovule. Protein interaction studies revealed the formation of higher-order complexes between Bs–C–E and Bs–D–E type MADS-box proteins, suggesting involvement of these specific complexes in determination of endothelium identity. However, although there are many similarities between the two genes and their products and functions, interestingly FBP24 cannot replace ABS in Arabidopsis. The results presented here demonstrate the importance of the comparative analysis of key regulatory genes in various model systems to fully understand all aspects of plant development.
!~RES~! A petunia ovary-specific cDNA expression library was screened by the yeast two-hybrid GAL4 system with FBP11 (CITATION; CITATION) as bait to identify interacting partners for this ovule-specific MADS-domain protein (CITATION). One of the interacting partners identified was a truncated MADS-domain protein, designated FLORAL BINDING PROTEIN 24 (FBP24). Subsequently, the full-length open reading frame (ORF) of FBP24 was cloned by PCR, using plasmid DNA from the ovary cDNA library as template. The FBP24 cDNA encodes a putative protein of 268 amino acids that, based on phylogenetic analysis, belongs to the Bsister (Bs) subfamily of MADS-domain proteins (Figure 1), as described previously (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Northern blot hybridization experiments were performed to analyze the expression of FBP24 in wild-type petunia plants (variety W115). RNA was isolated from various organs and hybridized to a specific FBP24 cDNA fragment lacking the conserved MADS-box region. FBP24 expression was detected in the ovary of wild-type petunia only, and its expression decreases slowly after pollination (Figure 2a,b). No expression was detected in vegetative tissues or other floral organs. In addition, in situ hybridization experiments were performed to obtain a more detailed picture of the FBP24 expression pattern. A specific hybridization signal was visible in very young ovule primordia (Figure 2c), and slightly later in development in the nucellus and the integument of the developing ovule (Figure 2d). During late ovule and seed development FBP24 expression was restricted to the endothelium (Figure 2e,f). This expression closely resembles the expression patterns of the D-type ovule identity genes FBP7 and FBP11, which are also MADS-domain family members and are necessary for proper ovule development, but deviate with respect to the early nucellus expression (CITATION; CITATION). The observed expression pattern of FBP24 and the similarity with the expression patterns of FBP7 and FBP11 suggest a role for FBP24 in ovule development. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the function of FBP24 in petunia we analyzed a dTph1 transposon insertion mutant, which was identified in a reverse-genetics screen (CITATION). The transposon insertion was located 56 nucleotides downstream the start codon in the MADS-box, and due to this various in-frame stop codons were introduced. Phenotypic analysis of this presumed knock-out mutant did not reveal any alterations in development, which can probably be explained by functional redundancy. Therefore, an overexpression/co-suppression approach was taken, to gain more insight in the function of FBP24. With this aim, a construct was made with the full-length FBP24 cDNA under control of the 35S CaMV promoter, which was introduced in the Petunia hybrida line W115 by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (CITATION). Seventeen independent transgenic petunia plants were generated and examined for morphological alterations and FBP24 expression levels. Northern blot analysis with total RNA from leaf tissue revealed only one plant (pGD614#13) with ectopic FBP24 expression (Figure S1), although this plant did not show any obvious morphological alterations. However, two other plants (pGD614#2 and pGD614#8) produced seed pods with a dramatic reduction in seed number and the few seeds produced were not fully round and had an altered seed color (Figure 3a–f). These two plants were subjected to more detailed molecular and phenotypic analyses. Northern blot analysis was performed with RNA isolated from ovaries of plants #2 and #8, and instead of increased FBP24 expression no FBP24 hybridization signal was detectable (Figure S1). This indicates that silencing had occurred in these plants most likely due to co-suppression, which possibly caused the poor seed-set phenotype. Subsequently, segregation analyses were performed using offspring plants of these two independent fbp24 knock-down lines and a perfect linkage was observed between the reduced seed-set phenotype and silencing of the FBP24 gene (Figure S1). Notably, these phenotypic changes were not observed in the fbp24 dTph1 insertion line, which suggests that FBP24 functions redundantly with other genes that are simultaneously suppressed in the fbp24 knock-down lines. However, a Southern blot hybridization under low-stringency conditions revealed that FBP24 is present as a single copy gene and that very similar MADS-box genes do not exist in the petunia genome (Figure S2). Because we used a full-length construct to generate the knock-down lines, the phenotype could also be the result of suppression of other related MADS-box containing genes. Therefore, we analyzed, by Northern hybridization, whether the expression levels of other MADS-box genes were altered in the fbp24 knock-down lines. Taking the complete ORF of FBP24 into account, the E-type gene FBP2 (CITATION; CITATION) and the D-type genes FBP7 and FBP11 (CITATION; CITATION), are most similar in DNA sequence among the known petunia MADS-box genes, and these genes are strongly expressed in ovules. However, phylogenetic analysis classifies FBP24 as a Bs gene (CITATION) and hence, the B-type genes are also good candidates for downregulation in the fbp24 knock-down lines. Of the petunia B-type genes PhTM6 is the most closely related to FBP24 at DNA sequence level and this gene is strongly expressed in the fourth whorl (CITATION). Despite the similarity in sequence between FBP24 and FBP2/FBP7/FBP11 and the close phylogenetic relation between FBP24 and PhTM6, no clear differences in expression levels of these genes were visible in the fbp24 knock-down lines compared to the wild-type control (Figure S3). This demonstrates that these genes are not substantially affected, and therefore it is not likely that the obtained phenotype is related to the functioning of these genes. Based on the available sequence data, there is no other obvious candidate gene that is related to FBP24 and that could act in a redundant fashion with FBP24. [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether the observed phenotype in the fbp24 knock-down lines is due to a male or female defect we performed reciprocal crosses. When fbp24 mutant pollen was used to pollinate wild-type petunia plants normal seed-set was observed. However, when wild-type pollen was used to pollinate the fbp24 knock-down line a reduced seed-set was observed, demonstrating that the fbp24 knock-down line is maternally impaired. Subsequently, we performed analine staining for callose to see whether unfertilized ovules of pGD614#2 and pGD614#8 plants develop normally and whether wild-type pollen tube growth was affected upon pollination of the knock-down plants. These analyses revealed that the ovules had a normal callose deposition and that pollen tubes grew normally and were able to reach the ovules (data not shown). Nevertheless, only a few ovules developed into a viable seed, while the majority degenerated shortly after pollination. To unveil the cause of ovule degeneration, we performed histological analysis on mature ovules from the fbp24 knock-down lines and compared them to the wild type (Figure 3g–i). Mature ovules [0 day after pollination (DAP)] from wild-type petunia plants contain an endothelial layer, which is the innermost layer of the single integument, and is thought to serve as a feeding layer. The endothelial cells are regularly shaped and appear dark blue upon staining with toluidine blue, which marks the presence of phenolic compounds. In contrast, ovules of the fbp24 knock-down line did not contain this regularly shaped inner cell layer (the endothelium) and hence lacked the dark blue staining pattern. Moreover, the embryo sac is occasionally completely absent, which resulted in less round-shaped ovules (Figure 3i). This effect on embryo sac formation might be indirect and caused by aberrant endothelium development, eventually giving rise to completely degenerated ovules. In Arabidopsis, PAs accumulate in the endothelium, which becomes part of the seed coat. During seed maturation, these compounds give rise to the brown color after oxidation (CITATION). To detect the presence of PAs in ovules of wild-type and the fbp24 knock-down lines, vanillin staining was performed. Vanillin staining results in a dark red color when PAs are present (CITATION; CITATION). An entire ovary of the fbp24 knock-down line was assayed and revealed the presence of PAs. Interestingly, there was no visible difference in the staining pattern between the degenerated ovules or the few developing seeds of the fbp24 knock-down lines and wild-type ovules and seeds (Figure 3j,k). This suggests that the endothelial layer in petunia is not the only layer where PAs accumulate; this in contrast to Arabidopsis where PAs accumulate exclusively in the endothelium (CITATION; CITATION). Furthermore, it suggests that FBP24 does not have an effect on PA accumulation in other cell layers of the petunia ovule/seed. Because the previously described Bs MADS-box tt16/abs mutant (CITATION) has a phenotype closely resembling that of the fbp24 knock-down lines described here, and because of the high level of similarity at sequence level (Figure 1), we decided to reanalyze the abs mutant in more detail. For these analyses we used a new allele for the abs mutant (see Experimental procedures), called tt16-6 according to conventional nomenclature (CITATION; CITATION). The abs mutant showed an altered seed pigmentation pattern due to a lack of PAs in the endothelium and, furthermore, the inner cell layer of the inner integument showed an abnormal cell shape (Figure 4), which confirms previously reported data (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Expression analyses revealed expression of ABS in reproductive organs, in buds, flowers and seed (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), and the ABS transcript appeared to accumulate during seed development (CITATION; CITATION). Nevertheless, its expression is very low or restricted, because in situ hybridization experiments failed to detect any expression (data not shown). Furthermore, a promoter GUS fusion did not result in any detectable expression under normal growth conditions (data not shown), which is consistent with the low expression levels of ABS reported previously (CITATION). However, based on the Arabidopsis tt16/abs phenotype (CITATION) and expression of the Bs genes from antirrhinum (DEFH21, CITATION) and petunia (FBP24, this study) it seems that the ABS gene is specifically expressed in and is important for the endothelial layer. To further investigate the endothelial cell layer, which is affected in the abs mutant, we used an enhancer detector line (ET447) that shows specific expression in the endothelium of ovules and developing seeds. Analysis of ET447 expression in the abs T-DNA insertion mutant showed that endothelial expression was lost in a homozygous abs background (Figure 4c,d). This strongly indicates that the endothelial layer is either absent or, alternatively, that the identity of this cell layer is changed. Subsequently, we determined the number of cell layers in the integuments to determine whether the endothelial layer is lost or transformed into a cell layer with another identity. The five integumental cell layers, with the innermost layer normally developing as the endothelium, were all present in the homozygous abs mutant, but they lacked the endothelial characteristics typical for the innermost layer. Determining the number of cell layers in the ovules of petunia is very difficult, but a similar change in identity of the endothelial layer as observed in the abs mutant also occurs in the fbp24 knock-down lines. Protein interaction studies may help with functional analyses and inter-specific comparison of gene products. It has been shown that protein interactions are often conserved between plant species (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Recently, we have demonstrated that FBP24 specifically interacts with the E-type proteins FBP2 and FBP4, and was able to form a higher-order complex with the ovule-specific D-type proteins FBP7 or FBP11 in yeast (CITATION). Moreover, by fluorescence resonance energy transfer–fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy (FRET-FLIM) studies heterodimerization was shown for FBP24 and FBP2 in planta, and strong indications were found for higher-order complex formation of FBP24, FBP11 and FBP2 (Bs–D–E complex) in planta (CITATION). In a comprehensive interaction study for all Arabidopsis MADS-domain proteins we determined that ABS interacts with the E-type SEP1/2/3 proteins (CITATION), of which at least SEP3 is a functional equivalent of FBP2 from petunia (CITATION). Recently, higher-order complex formation was tested for ABS and revealed Bs–D–E complexes with STK (D) and SEP3 (E) proteins (CITATION). Interestingly, two splicing forms are reported for ABS (CITATION), in contrast to a single form for FBP24. Furthermore, taking into account that the C-type AG gene has a redundant function in ovule identity (CITATION), and that its expression becomes restricted to the endothelium as the ovule matures (CITATION; CITATION), we tested all the Arabidopsis proteins from the C-/D-type clade in a yeast three-hybrid screen in combination with the ABS-I and ABS-II proteins. A similar screen was performed for FBP24 with the equivalent petunia proteins (Table 1). ABS-II lacks the last five amino acids at the end of the K-box, which are present in the splicing form ABS-I. Although the K-box is involved in protein–protein interactions (CITATION; CITATION), no difference in higher-order complex formation was observed between the products of the two ABS splicing variants. In the case of petunia, the complex Bs–C–E (FBP24–pMADS3–FBP2) was found in addition to the previously reported Bs–D–E complex (FBP24–[FBP7/11]–FBP2) (CITATION). In summary, the higher-order complexes that have been tested in yeast are conserved between petunia and Arabidopsis. Nine different combinations of three proteins were tested in a yeast three-hybrid experiment. For each combination 1 or 2 control combinations were analyzed to either exclude that the growth of the yeast is caused by the interaction between two proteins instead of three, or to determine the level of autoactivation by the SEP3 protein. In case of petunia, the FBP2ΔC protein was used that showed no autoactivation but is still able to form higher-order complexes (CITATION). Therefore all these combinations were analyzed at 1 mm 3AT. In contrast, the full-length Arabidopsis SEP3 protein gives autoactivation allowing growth up to a concentration of 30 mm 3AT. Therefore all combinations with the Arabidopsis proteins were tested at a 3AT concentration of 60 mm. The abs mutant and fbp24 knock-down lines show similarities, but also exhibit minor differences. Based on the yeast interaction studies, it cannot be concluded that ABS and FBP24 have diverged in function during evolution. Therefore, we performed a mutant complementation experiment with the abs mutant, which should reveal whether ABS can be replaced by FBP24 in Arabidopsis. The FBP24 cDNA under control of the constitutive 35S CaMV promoter (pGD614) was introduced into the Arabidopsis abs mutant by crossing. The 35S::FBP24 transgenic line was generated in ecotype Columbia and the expression of FBP24 in leaves was confirmed by Northern analysis (results not shown). In parallel, we produced 35S::ABS (pGD 797) lines and crossed it into the abs genetic background in a similar way as was done for 35S::FBP24. This resulted, however, in a lack of complementation in the case of 35S::FBP24, while the ABS gene under the control of the 35S CaMV promoter (pGD797) was able to complement the abs mutant as was reported previously by CITATION (results not shown). Despite the fact that FBP24 failed to complement the abs mutant, ectopic expression of FBP24 caused curly leaves and altered flower and silique development in Arabidopsis in a similar way as 35S::ABS does, which indicates that FBP24 is ectopically expressed, and that a protein is produced. However, these ectopic expression phenotypes are suggested to be caused by a dominant-negative effect (CITATION). Taking into consideration that the 35S CaMV activity in ovules is low in comparison to other tissues (Figure S4), we repeated the complementation experiment, making use of the petunia FBP7 promoter. This promoter of the petunia D-type FBP7 MADS-box gene is highly expressed in ovules and seeds (CITATION). Firstly, its expression pattern in Arabidopsis was tested by a fusion with the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene. This experiment showed that the FBP7 promoter drives high expression in Arabidopsis ovules as well (Figure S4). Besides the FBP24 coding region (pARC675), we also generated constructs for both splicing forms of ABS, ABS-I (or ABS; pARC677) and ABS-II (shorter version; pARC676), under the control of the FBP7 promoter. All three constructs were introduced in the homozygous abs mutant by the floral dip method (CITATION). In the case of complementation, the seeds of the T1 plants (primary transformants) are expected to give brown colored seeds, instead of yellow seeds. We first examined the expression levels of the introduced genes by Northern blot analysis for at least nine individual plants of each line (Figure S5). Ribonucleic acid was isolated from mature pistils in which the FBP7 promoter is highly active in Arabidopsis (Figure S4). After ripening, mature seeds were harvested from all Arabidopsis plants. Strikingly, all seeds from abs mutant plants expressing the introduced FBP24 gene (five plants) still had a yellow color, which indicates that the petunia FBP24 gene expressed in the ovule was not able to complement the Arabidopsis abs mutant. In contrast, abs mutant plants with the introduced ABS-I gene revealed several plants that produced brown seeds. The molecular analysis revealed that all transgenic plants with ABS-I expression driven by the FBP7 promoter (five plants) produced brown colored seed, whereas plants in which no ABS-I expression was detected by Northern blot analysis gave only yellow seeds. This demonstrated that the ABS-I gene under control of the FBP7 promoter is able to complement the abs mutant, as was shown for the 35S::ABS-I construct. Surprisingly, seeds from abs mutant plants with the introduced splicing variant ABS-II were still yellow, indicating that expression of this cDNA failed to complement the mutant (nine plants with expression).
!~MM~! Petunia hybrida, Arabidopsis thaliana, transgenic and mutant plants were grown under normal greenhouse conditions (22°C, long-day light regime). The fbp24 transposon insertion mutant was in a petunia W138 background and all other petunia experiments were conducted in the W115 background. The Arabidopsis abs mutant was in the ecotype Wassilevskija-3 (Ws-3), the ET447 enhancer detector line in Landsberg erecta (Ler), and ectopic expression studies were performed in Columbia-0 (Col-0). Full-length amino acid sequence comparisons were performed using the multiple sequence alignment program clustalx (v. 1.5b) (CITATION). A phylogenetic tree was generated using the neighbor-joining method in clustalx and bootstrap analysis was performed on 100 data sets, and branches with values of <50 were collapsed. The tree was visualized using the software program treeview (v. 1.6.6) (CITATION). Sequences included in the phylogenetic analysis were from Arabidopsis (AG, X53579; STK, U20182; SEP3, AF015552; ABS, AJ318098; PI, D30807; AP3, M86357) and from petunia (FBP6, X68675; pMADS3, X72912; FBP7, X81651; FBP11, X81852; FBP5, AF335235; FBP2, M91666; FBP24, AF335242; FBP1, M91190; pMADS2, X69947; PhTM6, AY532264; pMADS1, X69946). The FBP24 (AF335242) ORF was PCR amplified and subcloned into pGEM®-T Easy (Promega, Madison, WI, USA). In parallel, the expression cassette of the pGD120 vector (CITATION; CITATION) was cloned as a AscI–PacI fragment into the pBINPLUS vector (CITATION), giving the binary expression vector pGD121. Subsequently, the FBP24 coding region was transferred by XbaI/XhoI digestion into the binary pGD121 vector, resulting in the construct pGD614. Cloning of the ABS-I (AJ318098) and ABS-II (AY141212, shorter version) ORFs was described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The genomic ABS locus was amplified by PCR in a similar way as the previously described ABS ORFs and recombined into pDONR-207 (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) to generate a GatewayTM entry clone. Subsequently the obtained ABS clone was recombined into the binary GatewayTM overexpression vector pGD625, under the control of the double 35S CaMV enhancer, resulting in the pGD797 construct. The pGD625 GatewayTM destination vector was made by changing the orientation of the expression cassette in pGD120 by digestion with EcoRI, followed by ligation, resulting in pGD622. The pGD622 vector was digested with XbaI, treated with Klenow fragment, followed by ligation of the GatewayTM RF-A cassette (Invitrogen), resulting in pGD624. Finally, this vector was digested with AscI/PacI to transfer the complete expression cassette to an AscI/PacI-digested pBIN19 binary vector (CITATION). The binary pFBP7:GUS reporter construct (pFBP202/pARC443) was described previously (CITATION). Constructs pARC675, 676 and 677, expressing FBP24, ABS-II and ABS-I under control of the FBP7 promoter, respectively, were obtained as follows. Initially, the FBP7 promoter fragment (pFBP7) was PCR amplified, using the binary FBP7:GUS construct (pARC443) as template, and adding a 5′-AscI site and a 3′-NcoI site to the promoter. The obtained fragment was cloned into pGEM®-T Easy (Promega). In parallel ABS-I, ABS-II and FBP24 full-length coding regions were amplified by PCR, adding a NcoI site to the 5′-end and a SacI site to the 3′-end. All three fragments were cloned into pGEM®-T Easy (Promega). Subsequently, all the obtained pGEM®-T Easy vectors were partially digested with NcoI/SacI, and the MADS-box gene fragments were cloned behind the pFBP7 fragment. In the next step the three ‘pFBP7-MADS-box gene’ fragments were cloned as AscI/SacI fragments into the binary pGD121 vector. In the latter step the 35S CaMV promoter of pGD121 is replaced by pFBP7. The final constructs were analyzed by sequencing (DYEnamicTM ET Terminator Cycle Sequencing Kit; Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ, USA) and designated pARC675, pARC676 and pARC677. The T-DNA insertion in the AGL32/ABS/TT16 locus (At5g23260) was identified in the T-DNA population of the Knockout Facility of Wisconsin (CITATION). The position of the T-DNA insert was determined by PCR and sequencing and was localized in the 3′ region of the first intron, 51 nucleotides upstream of the start of the second exon. This novel abs allele was designated as tt16-6, in accordance with the nomenclature used by CITATION and CITATION. Total plant DNA was isolated from petunia leaf material according to CITATION. Ten micrograms was digested with either EcoRI, HindIII, BamHI or SalI, seperated on a 0.8% agarose gel in 1× Tris-acetate–EDTA (TAE) buffer, and followed by blotting onto Hybond-N + membrane (Amersham Biosciences) in 0.4 m NaOH solution. The full-length FBP24 cDNA probe was labelled with the RadPrime DNA Labeling System (Invitrogen) and the blot was hybridized as described by CITATION. The blot was washed under low-stringent conditions at 55°C with 2× SSC, 1% SDS. Total RNA was isolated from frozen plant tissue according to CITATION. Five micrograms of each RNA sample was denatured by 1.5 m glyoxal, separated on a 1.2% agarose gel in 15 mm Na-phosphate buffer pH 6.5, checked for equal loading by staining with ethidium bromide, and followed by blotting onto Hybond-N + membrane (Amersham Biosciences) in 25 mm Na-phosphate buffer pH 6.5. Probes were labelled with the RadPrime DNA Labeling System (Invitrogen) and blots were hybridized as described by CITATION. Probes were prepared by amplification of specific 3′ regions with the following primers: FBP24, PRI112, 5′-CTCGTGCCGATTCGGCACGAGTG and PRI657, 5′-TGTCGACGATCAGTCA-TAACTAGGGCC, ABS, PRI668, 5′-CTCATTGACCGATACTTGCATACC and PRI416, 5′-CCGTCGACTTAATCATTCTGGGCCGTTGGATC. In situ hybridizations were performed as described by CITATION. Initially, a PCR was performed with a T7 primer and a FBP24-specific forward primer (PRI656, 5′-GATGATCATTATGGGGAGGGG), using the pBD-GAL4-FBP24 plasmid as template. Subsequently, 10 μl of the obtained PCR product was used to synthesize the digoxigenin-labelled RNA probe by T7 polymerase-driven in vitro transcription, according to the manufacturer's instructions (Boehringer Mannheim GmbH, Germany).
