!~ABS~! Polarized cellular distribution of the phytohormone auxin and its carriers is essential for normal plant growth and development. Polar auxin transport (CITATION) is maintained by a network of auxin influx (AUX) (CITATION) and efflux (PIN) (CITATION) carriers. Both auxin transport and PIN protein cycling between the plasma membrane and endosomes require the activity of the endosomal GNOM (CITATION) ; however, intracellular routes taken by these carriers remain largely unknown. Here we show that Arabidopsis thaliana SORTING NEXIN 1 (AtSNX1) is involved in the auxin pathway and that PIN2, but not PIN1 or AUX1, is transported through AtSNX1-containing endosomes. We demonstrate that the snx1-null mutant exhibits multiple auxin-related defects and that loss of function of AtSNX1 severely enhances the phenotype of a weak gnom mutant. In root cells, we further show that AtSNX1 localizes to an endosomal compartment distinct from GNOM-containing endosomes, and that PIN2 accumulates in this compartment after treatment with the phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase inhibitor wortmannin or after a gravity stimulus. Our data reveal the existence of a novel endosomal compartment involved in PIN2 endocytic sorting and plant development.
!~RES~! We previously demonstrated that the product of Brassica oleracea SNX1, the plant orthologue of human SNX1, interacts with different plant receptor kinases (CITATION) . SNX proteins are cytoplasmic and membrane-associated proteins and are conserved among eukaryotes (CITATION) . The mammalian SNX1 and SNX2 are implicated in endocytic sorting and have an essential function in embryonic development. In the genome of A. thaliana, we found only three SNX genes, whereas the SNX family in mammals contains about thirty members. To investigate the function of SNX1 in Arabidopsis thaliana, we studied two allelic T-DNA insertion lines, which are null mutants (Supplementary Fig. 1a, b). These snx1 mutants showed pleiotropic defects. We chose to focus on the well-documented root-tip cell biology system for study of SNX1 function. Compared with wild type, snx1 mutants had shorter primary roots, produced fewer secondary roots and exhibited an altered root gravitropic response (Supplementary Fig. 2). Genomic DNA fragments spanning the AtSNX1 gene fused to complementary DNAs encoding green (GFP6) or monomeric red (mRFP1) (CITATION) fluorescent protein were able to complement snx1 (Supplementary Figs 1 and 3), indicating that AtSNX1 is the only gene impaired in the mutant lines. The features of the snx1 phenotype resembled those of the gnomB/E mutant, a very weak allele of the GNOM gene (CITATION) . GNOM encodes a GDP/GTP exchange factor for small G-proteins (ARF-GEF) and is required for the proper polar localization of PIN1 (refs 1, 7, 8). Notably, like weak gnom alleles, auxin maxima were disturbed in the roots of snx1 mutants (Supplementary Fig. 4). Moreover, snx1 gnomB/E double mutant plants exhibited a more severe phenotype than either of the single mutants (Supplementary Fig. 5). The marked phenotype of double mutant plants is not reminiscent of that caused by stronger gnom alleles, for example, gnomR5 (ref. 7). This indicates that AtSNX1 and GNOM are involved in distinct pathways, but nonetheless have partially overlapping functions in plant growth and development. To gain insight into the intracellular localization of AtSNX1, we used the complemented snx1-1 transgenic lines expressing functional AtSNX1–GFP or AtSNX1–mRFP proteins. In both lines, we observed fluorescent AtSNX1 proteins in round-shaped intracellular compartments (Fig. 1b, n). We crossed the AtSNX1–mRFP line with marker lines that constitutively express GFP-tagged proteins targeted to different intracellular compartments. AtSNX1–mRFP did not co-localize with two Golgi markers, ERD2–GFP (ref. 12; Fig. 1a–c) and ST–GFP (ref. 12; data not shown), or with TLG2a–GFP (refs 1, 13, 14; Fig. 1d–f), which labels trans-Golgi networks in plant cells. Then, we crossed the AtSNX1–mRFP line with two lines expressing either the RABF1–GFP or the GFP–RABF2b endosomal markers (CITATION) . We observed that AtSNX1–mRFP co-localized with both RABF GFP-tagged proteins in Arabidopsis roots (Fig. 1g–l). These results indicate that AtSNX1 is located in an endosomal compartment. To verify this prediction, we used the fluorescent dye FM4-64 as an endocytic tracer (CITATION) . In roots of AtSNX1–GFP plants, AtSNX1–GFP-containing compartments were labelled after only 15 min of FM4-64 internalization (Fig. 1m–o). Next, we treated roots with brefeldin A (BFA), which inhibits transport from endosomes to the plasma membrane and causes endosomes to aggregate into BFA compartments (CITATION) . After 30 min of BFA treatment, AtSNX1–GFP labelling accumulated with endocytosed FM4-64 in BFA compartments (Fig. 1p–r). Altogether, our results indicate that AtSNX1-labelled compartments are endosomes. [[FIGURE]] As GNOM is an endosomal BFA target in Arabidopsis root cells (CITATION) , we presumed that AtSNX1 and GNOM are located in the same endosomes. To verify this, we crossed a GNOM–GFP line (CITATION) with the AtSNX1–mRFP line. No co-localization between the two fluorescent markers was detected (Fig. 2a–c), although both were found in BFA-sensitive compartments (Fig. 2d–f). Inhibitors of phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase, such as wortmannin, affect SNX localization in mammalian cells (CITATION) . In root cells, wortmannin treatment led to the appearance of one or two enlarged, vacuolated AtSNX1-containing compartments per cell, but did not alter the morphology of GNOM-containing endosomes (Fig. 2g–i and Supplementary Fig. 6). We conclude that GNOM- and AtSNX1-containing endosomes are physically distinct; although both are BFA sensitive, only AtSNX1-containing endosomes exhibit sensitivity to wortmannin. [[FIGURE]] Although GNOM regulates trafficking of the basally localized PIN1, recycling of PIN2 is partially independent of GNOM (CITATION) . This implies that additional endocytic routes are involved in recycling of PIN2 and we proposed that AtSNX1 endosomes might be one of those. To test this assumption, we treated seedlings expressing functional PIN1–GFP (ref. 19) and PIN2–GFP (ref. 20) with wortmannin. The wortmannin treatment was concomitant with an incubation of the same roots in the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide, to ensure that GFP labelling reveals only previously synthesized proteins. Whereas no difference was observed in the localization of PIN1–GFP after wortmannin treatment (Fig. 2j, k; as expected because only the GNOM route is involved in PIN1 recycling), some PIN2–GFP was relocalized to wortmannin-induced compartments (Fig. 2l, m). Moreover, PIN2–GFP that remained at the plasma membrane seemed appropriately polarized, apically in epidermal cells and basally in cortical cells. In addition, the epidermal cells, compared with cortical cells, were particularly sensitive to wortmannin, indicating that PIN2 trafficking might be differentially regulated in these two distinct cell files. The wortmannin-induced compartments were shown to co-localize with AtSNX1–mRFP in hybrid transgenic plants co-expressing PIN2–GFP (Fig. 2n–p). Stimulation by gravity (gravistimulation) of root apices has recently been shown to result in internalization of PIN2 proteins at the upper side of the root, whereas endocytosis is inhibited at the lower side (CITATION) . To explore whether PIN2 internalization during gravistimulation involves AtSNX1 endosomes, we submitted seedlings of the PIN2–GFP/AtSNX1–mRFP hybrid plant to a gravity stimulus. Endocytosed PIN2–GFP co-localized with AtSNX1–mRFP compartments, indicating that PIN2 transits through these endosomes (Fig. 2q–s). AUX1 is another auxin carrier involved in root gravitropism (CITATION) that might be routed via AtSNX1 endosomes. To test this possibility, we treated roots of an AUX1–YFP line (CITATION) separately with BFA and wortmannin. Under our experimental conditions, neither drug affected AUX1–YFP localization (Supplementary Fig. 7). Localization of GFP or YFP fusion auxin carriers has been shown to correlate with that of the native proteins (CITATION) . It is reasonable to consider that the behaviour of fluorescent proteins in our experiments reflects the genuine dynamics of auxin carriers, although we cannot exclude that auxin carriers fused to GFP or YFP might have altered stability. Altogether, our results indicate that PIN2, but not PIN1 or AUX1, trafficks through wortmannin-sensitive, AtSNX1-containing endosomes. Next, we investigated the effects of long-term wortmannin treatment on Arabidopsis seedlings, to see whether alteration of the AtSNX1 endosomal compartment (Supplementary Fig. 8) may have significant consequences for plant development, auxin distribution or PIN2 localization. Phenotypic features reminiscent of those provoked by auxin transport inhibitors (CITATION) , such as defects in root and hypocotyl gravitropism and elongation, were induced by wortmannin in a concentration-dependent manner (Fig. 3a–c and Supplementary Fig. 9). These modifications were accompanied by a clear alteration of auxin distribution, exemplified by the signals obtained using the auxin-maxima reporter DR5rev::GFP (refs 5 and 19) in the presence or absence of a gravity stimulus (Fig. 3d–g). The increased GFP signal at the root tip, showing extension into lateral root-cap and epidermis cells (Fig. 3e), was very similar to the DR5rev::GFP expression observed in plants with the eir1–4 (pin2) knockout allele (CITATION) . This indicated that wortmannin treatment might affect PIN2 abundance and subcellular location. Consistent with this prediction, abundance and localization of PIN2–GFP were markedly perturbed in cortical and epidermal cells of wortmannin-treated seedlings (Fig. 3h–k). Only a faint fluorescent signal was observed in root tips of wortmannin-treated seedlings compared with the control. Although PIN2–GFP polarity was still maintained at the plasma membrane, PIN2–GFP accumulated in wortmannin-induced compartments and also labelled the tonoplast (Fig. 3k). It is probable that endocytosed PIN2–GFP was targeted for degradation, as demonstrated by the weak intensity of the PIN2–GFP signal. In contrast, localization of PIN1–GFP after wortmannin treatment was not markedly different from control seedlings, except that PIN1–GFP expression slightly expanded into some cortical cells (Fig. 3l, m). This is reminiscent of the ectopic expression of PIN1 in the PIN2 expression domains reported to occur in pin2 (ref. 24). The low levels of PIN2–GFP detected in cortical and epidermal cells under wortmannin treatment could considerably reduce the uptake of auxin from columella cells. This would account for the observed enrichment of auxin in the root tip and the agravitropic phenotype of wortmannin-treated seedlings. [[FIGURE]] Taken together, our data show that AtSNX1 has a function in root growth and gravitropic response. Although our results are consistent with altered auxin accumulations and indirectly support altered auxin transport in snx1 root tips, free indole-3-acetic acid levels and auxin transport were not assayed. It is possible that the weak phenotype we observed for snx1 mutants is the result of a partial redundancy of AtSNX1 with the other two AtSNX proteins (AtSNX2a and AtSNX2b) (CITATION) or other proteins involved in intracellular trafficking. The discovery of the wortmannin-sensitive, AtSNX1-containing endosomes, and the effect of wortmannin on PIN2–GFP relocalization or degradation in roots, strongly indicate that AtSNX1 defines a novel endosomal compartment involved in auxin-carrier trafficking. On the basis of the endosomal localization of AtSNX1, which differs from that of the GNOM protein, we propose that there are at least two distinct endosomal routes for the recycling or trafficking of auxin transport components: one involving GNOM-containing endosomes (used by PIN1 and partially by PIN2), and a second route using AtSNX1-containing endosomes (used by PIN2, but not PIN1 or AUX1). This dual option of regulating polar auxin trafficking may ensure a fine control of auxin levels and auxin carriers at the subcellular level. In the past few years, several studies in developmental biology using animal systems have brought to light a complex and dynamic picture of the endosomal system (CITATION) . Our data underline the importance of endosomal proteins in the control of growth and developmental processes in plants. Identification of the other cargoes and polar auxin transport components routed by the AtSNX1-containing endosomes, and determination of developmental pathways that they regulate will be the next challenge for the coming years.
!~MM~! The snx1-1 T-DNA mutant (Columbia accession, GABI-Kat_105C01) was provided by B. Weisshaar and the snx1-2 T-DNA mutant (Columbia accession, SALK_03351) was obtained from the SALK Institute (CITATION) . The pGNOM:GNOM–GFP line in a gnom background, pPIN1:PIN1–GFP line in a pin1 background, pPIN2:PIN2–GFP line in a pin2 (eir1-1) background, pAUX1:AUX1–YFP line, DR5::GUS line, DR5rev::GFP line, and the gnomB/E mutant were described previously (CITATION) . Plants were grown on soil with long-day conditions at 21 °C, 70% humidity. For gravistimulation experiments, seedlings were grown vertically for 5–7 days in Petri dishes and analysed as described (CITATION) . Roots of 7-day-old seedlings grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium were mounted in LM medium (CITATION) and analysed on a LSM-510 laser-scanning confocal microscope (Zeiss). For FM4-64 treatments, seedlings were incubated for 2 min at room temperature in LM containing FM4-64 (3.5 µM) and rinsed three times in LM before observation. BFA (100 µM in DMSO/ethanol), wortmannin (33 µM in DMSO) and cycloheximide (50 µM in DMSO) treatments were also performed in LM, for the times indicated, before observation. Recombinant plasmid construction, plant transformation and statistical analysis of results are described in Supplementary Information.
