!~ABS~! McCPK1 (Mesembryanthemum crystallinum calcium-dependent protein kinase 1) mRNA expression is transiently salinity- and dehydration-stress responsive. The enzyme also undergoes dynamic subcellular localization changes in response to these same stresses. Using the yeast-two hybrid system, we have isolated and characterized a M. crystallinum CPK1 Adaptor Protein 2 (McCAP2). We show that McCPK1 interacts with the C-terminal, coiled-coil containing region of McCAP2 in the yeast two-hybrid system. This interaction was confirmed in vitro between the purified recombinant forms of each of the proteins and in vivo by coimmunoprecipitation experiments from plant extracts. McCAP2, however, was not a substrate for McCPK1. Computational threading analysis suggested that McCAP2 is a member of a novel family of proteins with unknown function also found in rice and Arabidopsis. These proteins contain coiled-coil spectrin repeat domains present in the syntaxin superfamily that participate in vesicular and protein trafficking. Consistent with the interaction data, subcellular localization and fractionation studies showed that McCAP2 colocalizes with McCPK1 to vesicular structures located on the actin cytoskeleton and within the endoplasmic reticulum in cells subjected to low humidity stress. McCAP2 also colocalizes with AtVTI1a, an Arabidopsis v-SNARE [vesicle-soluble N-ethyl maleimide-sensitive factor (NSF) attachment protein (SNAP) receptor] present in the trans-Golgi network (TGN) and prevacuolar compartments (PVCs). Both interaction and subcellular localization studies suggest that McCAP2 may possibly serve as an adaptor protein responsible for vesicle-mediated trafficking of McCPK1 to or from the plasma membrane along actin microfilaments of the cytoskeleton.
!~RES~! The yeast strain PJ69-4A was used to perform yeast two-hybrid screens to isolate McCPK1-interacting proteins. This particular strain contains three different reporter constructs that are all driven by different promoters, which eliminates many of the false positives commonly obtained in two-hybrid screens (James et al. CITATION). The constitutively active McCPK1 bait (Fig. 1a, variable plus kinase) was used to screen a cDNA library constructed from mRNA isolated from salt-stressed ice plant leaves. Five million co-transformants were screened. Positively interacting clones of McCAP2 were isolated and then tested with the five different McCPK1 bait constructs [kinase domain, full-length minus N-terminal variable domain, variable plus kinase domain, N-terminal variable domain, and full-length constructs (Fig. 1a)]. The pattern of interaction produced on plates lacking leucine, tryptophan, and adenine was similar to that produced on plates lacking leucine, tryptophan, and histidine (Fig. 1b, c). McCAP2 interacted positively with the kinase domain, full-length minus N-terminal variable domain, and the full-length constructs. Positive interaction of McCAP2 with the variable plus kinase domain construct, however, was only observed on plates lacking adenine. All bait constructs failed to autoactivate the adenine (ADE2) nutritional reporter (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  We have previously reported that the McCpk1 mRNA expression is transiently induced by salinity and water deficit stress (Chehab et al. CITATION). To test whether the application of the same stresses would affect the expression of McCap2, we performed semi-quantitative RT-PCR on mRNA extracted from detached leaves that were subjected to these same conditions. Unlike McCpk1, however, McCap2 steady-state transcripts did not change in abundance following dehydration and high-salinity (0.4 M NaCl) stress (Supplemental Fig. 1S). As a control, the transcript abundance of Fnr1, was monitored using the same RNA samples and remained unchanged following stress, consistent with earlier observations (Taybi and Cushman CITATION). It should be noted that McCap2 transcripts were approximately 1.2-fold more abundant than Fnr1 transcripts. The complete McCAP2 cDNA encodes a predicted polypeptide consisting of 345 amino acid residues. BLAST searches showed that McCAP2 is related to an unknown protein from rice (BAD53576) with 58% amino acid sequence identity and a small family of three unknown Arabidopsis proteins (AAV74245, AAN28788 and CAB81519) with a 24–54% amino acid sequence identity. The most notable sequence conservation among these proteins is at their C-termini (Fig. 2a). InterPro scan searches failed to suggest a possible function for McCAP2 (Madera et al. CITATION). However, using the heterologous rice protein (BAD53576) and the more distantly heterologous Arabidopsis protein (CAB81519) (Fig. 2a) as queries revealed that these proteins are related to a superfamily of v-SNARE proteins (InterPro Accession number: SSF58038), which includes the syntaxins. Syntaxins mediate the interaction of transport vesicles and their target membranes in diverse vesicular transport processes along the exocytic and endocytic pathways in various endomembrane systems (Teng et al. CITATION). We next used the Protein Homology/analogY Recognition Engine (PHYRE) threading algorithm, which is an updated version of its predecessor, the 3D-PSSM algorithm, to assess whether McCAP2 has the potential to adopt a known three-dimensional structure (Kelly et al. CITATION). This approach is capable of revealing structural similarities that are otherwise not obvious through conventional sequence-based methods. PHYRE/3D-PSSM analysis showed that the C-terminus region of McCAP2 is related to a spectrin beta chain repeat protein domain (65% confidence), although no significant amino acid homologies were apparent (E-value was 1.7). The spectrin repeat domain, which forms coiled-coil structures, is reported to be involved in vesicle and protein transport. To test whether McCAP2 has this motif, coiled-coil motif searches were performed using Paircoil2 (McDonnell et al. CITATION) and MultiCoil (Wolf et al. CITATION) software. MultiCoil and Percoil2 predict whether proteins are likely to have dimeric coiled-coils, whereas MultiCoil alone predicts the occurrence of trimeric coiled-coils. Both programs predicted that McCAP2 contains this motif at its N- and C-termini (Fig. 2b, c). Finally, the WoLF protein subcellular localization prediction (PSORT) software (Horton et al. CITATION) was used to find potential cellular locations of McCAP2 and its four heterologous proteins. Results showed that all McCAP2-related proteins were predicted to have cytosolic localization. On the other hand, McCAP2 was predicted to have a peroxisomal destination, based on the presence of a canonical Peroxisomal-matrix Targeting Sequence (PTS2) (RLXXXXXQL) element. PTS2 elements, which are usually located within 20 residues of the first amino acid of a protein, are 26–36 amino acids long, and in most cases are cleaved during, or shortly after, translocation. However, the PTS2 site within McCAP2 was located between amino acids 287 and 295 and not at the N-terminus, suggesting that this signal might not be in a position to be recognized by the appropriate receptor and, therefore, it is unlikely that McCAP2 localizes to peroxisomes. [[FIGURE]]  Because McCAP2 was predicted to have two coiled-coil motifs at its N- and C-termini, we employed the yeast-two hybrid system to map the domain(s) of McCAP2 with which McCPK1 putatively interacts. Full-length McCPK1 was used as bait to test five different domains (domain 1, domain 2, domain 3, domain 1 + 2 and domain 2 + 3) of McCAP2 as prey (Fig. 3a). Prey and bait constructs were cotransformed into the yeast host strain PJ69-4A and plated on a medium lacking leucine and tryptophan to screen for yeast cells harboring both plasmids (Fig. 3b). To screen for interaction, the same yeast cells were plated on a medium lacking adenine, leucine and tryptophan (Fig. 3c) or histidine, leucine and tryptophan containing 3-AT (3-amino-1,2,4-triazole) (Fig. 3d). Results show that only domain 2 + 3, which includes the C-terminal coiled-coil domain, retained partial binding with the McCPK1 (Fig. 3c, d). The adenine reporter/selection system produced the least background growth of the various reporters with this host strain. [[FIGURE]]  To confirm that full-length McCAP2 interacts with McCPK1, we performed an in vitro interaction assay. Recombinant GST–McCAP2 and a positive control, GST–McCSP1, a bona fide interactor and substrate of McCPK1 (Patharkar and Cushman CITATION), were bound to glutathione agarose. McCPK1–6 × His fusion protein was then added to the resin bound proteins separately in the presence of calcium. The entire interaction complex was resolved by SDS-PAGE, electroblotted onto a PVDF membrane, and the proteins were detected by western blot analysis using monoclonal antibody against the 6 × His tag. Results show that McCPK1–6 × His specifically associates with agarose beads containing either GST–McCAP2 or GST–McCSP1 (Fig. 4). The McCPK1–6 × His fusion protein failed to bind to agarose beads containing GST alone. [[FIGURE]]  To determine if McCAP2 interacts with McCPK1 in vivo, we expressed McCAP2–GFP and McCPK1–6 × His fusions under the control of CaMV-35S promoter in leaves of stressed plants grown at ∼40% relative humidity using a microprojectile bombardment-based transient transfection system. After 13 h of expression, epidermal peels of leaves expressing either (McCAP2–GFP and McCPK1–6 × His), or (GFP and McCPK1–6 × His) were homogenized, their soluble proteins extracted, and subjected to immunoprecipitation either with or without anti-6 × His antibodies. The presence of McCAP2–GFP was then determined by western blot analysis using anti-GFP antibodies. No band was detected when the anti-6 × His antibody was omitted from the immunoprecipitation experiment. A band corresponding to McCAP2–GFP was detected as a co-immunoprecipitated product and also in the epidermal crude extract from bombarded leaves overexpressing both, McCAP2–GFP and McCPK1–6 × His, confirming expression of the former protein (Fig. 5a). GFP alone did not co-immunoprecipitate with McCPK1–6 × His, thus confirming the latter’s interaction with McCAP2 and not with its fused GFP (Fig. 5b). These results corroborate our previous observations and suggest that McCAP2 and McCPK1 interact in vivo. [[FIGURE]]  In vitro kinase assays were conducted to determine if McCAP2 was a McCPK1 substrate. McCPK1 exhibited calcium-dependent autophosphorylation activity and phosphorylated the fusion protein GST–McCSP1, a bona fide substrate for McCPK1 (Patharkar and Cushman CITATION), but failed to phosphorylate GST–McCAP2 even in the presence of calcium (data not shown). This data suggests that McCAP2 is not a substrate for McCPK1. We have previously shown that McCPK1–GFP localizes to the nucleus, ER, and actin microfilaments in cells from stressed plants exposed to low humidity, whereas it is present solely in the plasma membrane in cells from plants exposed to high humidity (Chehab et al. CITATION). To determine if McCPK1 and McCAP2 colocalize in vivo, we first compared localization patterns in plants grown under high relative humidity (∼80%) conditions. In these plants, McCPK1 localized to the plasma membrane, whereas McCAP2 localized to vesicle-like structures (Fig. 6a–c). The same experiment was then performed on plants subjected to ∼40% relative humidity. In these plants, McCAP2 localization remained unchanged compared to that under unstressed conditions. However, McCPK1 and McCAP2 exhibited colocalization to vesicular and actin microfilament structures as well as the ER, but not the nucleus (Fig. 6d–f). This result is consistent with the in vitro and in vivo interaction data obtained for McCPK1 and McCAP2. [[FIGURE]]  To improve our identification of the subcellular structures to which McCAP2 localizes, we co-bombarded McCAP2–DsRed fusions with the microfilament marker talin-GFP (Kost et al. CITATION). Red fluorescent vesicles colocalized with the green fluorescent microfilaments (Fig. 7a–c). Because microfilaments are known to be tightly associated with the ER, we observed whether McCAP2 also localizes to this endomembrane by testing the colocalization of McCAP2–DsRed with the ER marker: BiP-GFP (Kim et al. CITATION; Fig. 7d–f). Results suggest that the vesicles to which McCAP2 localize are also associated with the ER. To test if McCAP2 localized to peroxisomes as suggested by PSORT predictions, we cobombarded McCAP2–DsRed and GFP–KSRM, a modified GFP that is targeted to peroxisomes by the addition of the C-terminal sequence KSRM (Trelease et al. CITATION). Green labeled peroxisomal vesicles moved rapidly in the cell in contrast to the red fluorescent vesicles of McCAP2–DsRed, thus indicating no colocalization with the peroxisomes (Fig. 7g–i). [[FIGURE]]  To further corroborate the observation that McCAP2 colocalizes with McCPK1 at the actin microfilaments and the ER, we surveyed the subcellular location of McCAP2 using subcellular fractionation and western blotting. Expression constructs coding for McCPK1–6 × His, McCAP2–DHA (Double Hemaglutinin) fusions, and the peroxisomal-targeted GFP–KSRM (Trelease et al. CITATION), were introduced via microprojectile bombardment into the leaf tissue of plants subjected to ∼40% relative humidity. The leaves were allowed to express the fusion proteins for 13 h, after which time the total proteins from epidermal tissues were extracted by tissue homogenization in the presence of either EDTA or MgCl2 and subsequently fractionated on a continuous sucrose gradient [15% (top)-54% (bottom)]. Protein fractions were resolved by SDS-PAGE and analyzed by western blotting. In the presence of EDTA, the fractionation pattern of McCAP2–DHA, detected by probing with anti-HA antibodies, and McCPK1–6 × His, detected with anti-6 × His antibodies, were similar to each other as well as to the ER-localized BiP protein detected by anti-Hsc70 (BiP) antibodies (Fig. 8a). In the presence of MgCl2, the detection of McCAP2, McCPK1 and BiP shifted to higher density fractions, a phenomenon typically observed for ER proteins (Fig. 8b). However, probing the different fractions with anti-GFP antibodies to detect GFP–KSRM show that the peroxisomal-targeted fluorescent protein was detected in fractions 6–9 (Fig. 8a, b). This fractionation pattern is distinct from that obtained for McCPK1, McCAP2 as well as BiP, and in contrast with the gradient shift observed for these proteins, the fraction position in which GFP–KSRM was detected did not change in the presence or absence of MgCl2 (Fig. 8a, b). These results are consistent with McCAP2–DsRed’s previously observed localization to the ER, microfilaments and associated vesicular structures, but not with peroxisomes. To confirm that McCAP2 does not localize to the nucleus, we cobombarded constructs for the expression of AtH2A.Z-GFP (Rodriguez Milla et al. CITATION) and McCAP2–DHA fusions into the leaf tissue of plants subjected to ∼40% relative humidity. Western blot analysis on total proteins isolated from the nuclei show the presence of AtH2A.Z-GFP, but not McCAP2–DHA, although both fusions are expressed in the bombarded leaf area (Fig. 8c). Control antibody reactions with crude extracts from untransfected and transfected leaves confirm that the antibody signals were not derived from cross-reactivity with endogenous proteins (Fig. 8d). [[FIGURE]]  To better identify the vesicular structures with which McCAP2 localizes, we co-bombarded McCAP2–DsRed with AtVTI1a-GFP, a v-SNARE (At5g39510) known to localize to the TGN and PVCs (Zheng et al. CITATION; Kim et al. CITATION). The McCAP2–DsRed fusion colocalized with the green fluorescent vesicles (Fig. 9a–c). Based on these results, McCAP2 might be part of the complex intracellular transport machinery involving the interaction of v-SNAREs on transport vesicles with t-SNAREs on target membranes within various endomembrane systems. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Common ice plant (M. crystallinum) seeds were germinated in Metromix 200 (Scotts Sierra Horticulture Products, Marysville, OH, USA) in a growth chamber on a 12 h light (26°C)/12 h dark (18°C) cycle. Fluorescent and incandescent lighting provided a photon flux density of 450–500 μE M−2 s−1. Ten-day-old seedlings were transplanted individually to 1 l Styrofoam pots containing Metromix 200 and irrigated once daily with 0.5 × Hoagland’s solution (Hoagland and Arnon CITATION). Relative humidity was normally 70% unless indicated otherwise. A yeast two-hybrid cDNA library was prepared as described (Patharkar and Cushman CITATION). All five McCpk1 bait vectors were made by amplifying the appropriate portion of McCpk1 (accession no. AF090835) by PCR using cloned Pfu polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA). Linker primers were designed so that the PCR product could be digested and ligated directionally into the multiple cloning site of pBD-Gal4-cam (Stratagene). Primers used for each of the five bait constructs were as follows: full length 5′-ACGCGTCGACAAATGGGGATTTGTGCTAGCA-3′ and 5′-AAAACTGCAGCTAAATGAGTTTGGTAACCG-3′; variable domain 5′-ACGCGTCGACAAATGGGGATTTGTGCTAGCA-3′ and 5′-CGATGTCGACCTACACCTTCACATCCTCAAAG-3′; full length-variable domain 5′-ACGCGTCGACAATACTACACATTGGGGAGAG-3′ and 5′-AAAACTGCAGCTAAATGAGTTTGGTAACCG-3′; variable + kinase domain 5′-ACGCGTCGACAAATGGGGATTTGTGCTAGCA-3′ and 5′-AAAACTGCAGCTAACCATCTCTTAGCCATGGG-3′; kinase domain 5′-ACGCGTCGACAATACTACACATTGGGGAGAG-3′ and 5′-AAAACTGCAGCTAACCATCTCTTAGCCATGGG-3′. Constructs were verified to be error free by restriction digestion and DNA sequencing. Bait constructs were transformed into yeast strain PJ69-4A (James et al. CITATION) by the lithium acetate method (Geitz and Schiestl CITATION). Library plasmids were also transformed into bait-containing PJ69-4A by the lithium acetate method. Transformants were plated onto synthetic dropout (SD) medium lacking leucine, tryptophan, and histidine. After 10 days, cells were replica-plated onto SD media lacking leucine, tryptophan, histidine, and adenine. Plasmid DNA was extracted from positive colonies with a Zymo prep kit (Zymo Research, Orange, CA, USA). Yeast plasmid DNA was transformed into competent XL1-blue MRF’ (Stratagene). XL1-blue MRF’ transformants were plated on LB agar plates with 150 μg/ml ampicillin to select for library plasmids. Positive library plasmids were cotransformed back into PJ69-4A with one of the five McCPK1 baits or pBD-Gal4-Cam (Gal4 DNA binding domain alone). Five different domains of McCAP2 (accession no. AAR06858) were used as baits to screen for potential interaction with McCPK1: domain 1 (1–100 AA), domain 2 (50–200 AA), domain 3 (150–345 AA), domain 1 + 2 (1–200 AA), and domain 2 + 3 (50–345 AA). Primers used were: 5′-ATAGGATCCATGGCGGCGGAGGATCA-3′ and 5′-ATACTCGAGTTACCCTTCCAGTTGCTTTATC-3′ for domain 1, 5′-ATAGGATCCGGGTCAGAGGAGGAATCA-3′ and 5′-ATACTCGAGTTAGCTTTCTAGTTGAGTTTCCTTCTTC-3′ for domain 2, 5′-ATAGGATCCGGTGATCTGCTCAACTCC-3′ and 5′-ATACTGGAGTTATATATGGGATGCATTAAGG-3′ for domain 3, 5′-ATAGGATCCATGGCGGCGGAGGATCA-3′ and 5′-ATACTCGAGTTAGCTTTCTAGTTGAGTTTCCTTCTTC-3′ for domain 1 + 2, and 5′-ATAGGATCCGGGTCAGAGGAGGAATCA-3′ and 5′-ATACTGGAGTTATATATGGGATGCATTAAGG-3′ for domain 2 + 3. All five McCap2 prey vectors were made by amplifying the appropriate portion of McCap2 by PCR using native Pfu DNA polymerase (Stratagene). The PCR product was digested with BamHI/XhoI, re-purified using Qiagen PCR cleanup kit (Qiagen, Chatsworth, CA, USA), and finally ligated directionally into the BamHI/XhoI sites of pAD-Gal4-cam (Stratagene). Constructs were verified to be error free by restriction digestion (BamHI/XhoI) and DNA sequencing. Prey constructs were transformed into PJ69-4A yeast strain (James et al. CITATION) containing McCPK1 bait or pBD-Gal4-Cam (Stratagene) with the lithium acetate method (Geitz and Schiestl CITATION). Transformed cells were plated onto synthetic dropout (SD) media lacking leucine and tryptophan. Transformants growing on the previous SD medium were re-streaked on SD plates lacking either leucine, tryptophan, and histidine or leucine, tryptophan, and adenine. Positively interacting prey clones were sequenced and the insert sequences were analyzed using the MacVector®/AssemblyLIGN™ sequence analysis programs (Accelrys, San Diego, CA, USA). Multiple sequence alignments were conducted with the CLUSTAL-X multiple alignment program (Thompson et al. CITATION). Forward and reverse position-specific iterated, pattern-hit initiated BLAST (PSI- and PHI-BLAST), and conserved domain database (CDD) searches were performed at the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) server (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/) (Altschul et al. CITATION; Schäffer et al. CITATION; Marchler-Bauer and Bryant CITATION). InterPro scan searches were performed using the InterPro Scan server (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/interpro/scan.html) (Mulder et al. CITATION). Coiled-coil motif searches were performed using Paircoil2 (http://www.paircoil2.csail.mit.edu/) (McDonnell et al. CITATION) and MultiCoil (http://www.multicoil.lcs.mit.edu/cgi-bin/multicoil) (Wolf et al. CITATION) software using default parameters (probability cutoff value = 0.5). Threading analysis was performed using the Protein Homology/analogY Recognition Engine (PHYRE) threading algorithm (http://www.sbg.bio.ic.ac.uk/phyre/), which is an updated version of its predecessor, the 3-Dimensional Position Specific Scoring Matrix (3D-PSSM) algorithm (Kelly et al. CITATION). The WoLF protein subcellular localization prediction (PSORT) software (http://www.wolfpsort.seq.cbrc.jp/) was used to predict putative protein subcellular localization (Horton et al. CITATION). The construct expressing GST–McCAP2 was made by PCR amplifying the full coding region of McCAP2 with 5′-ATAGGATCCCCATGGCGGCGGAGGATCA-3′ and 5′-ATACTCGAGTTATATATGGGATGCATTAAGG-3′ primers. The PCR product was XhoI and BamHI digested and ligated into the XhoI/BamHI sites of the expression vector pGEX-5X-2 (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Piscataway, NJ, USA). The cloned fragment was confirmed to be error free by DNA sequencing. BL21(DE3) cells (Novagen, Madison, WI, USA) were transformed with the pGEX-5X-2 vector containing the McCap2 insert. Transformed cells were grown in 2 × YT media with 150 μg/ml ampicillin until OD600 = 0.7. Protein expression was induced by adding IPTG (isopropyl thio-β-d-galactoside) to 1.0 mM. Cells were grown for 2 h, harvested by centrifugation, and then disrupted by sonication after resuspension in sonication buffer [10 mM PIPES pH 7.4, 150 mM NaCl, 1% Triton X-100, 1 mM DTT, Complete™ EDTA free protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche Molecular Biochemicals, Indianapolis, IN, USA)]. GST–McCAP2 was purified from crude sonicate by glutathione agarose (Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA) affinity chromatography. Bound GST–McCAP2 was washed four times with PNT buffer (10 mM PIPES pH 7.4, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% Triton X-100, 1 mM DTT) and eluted with elution buffer (10 mM Glutathione, 50 mM TRIS pH 8.5, 0.1% Triton X-100). Stress treatments were performed according to Taybi and Cushman (CITATION). Leaves from 5-week-old plants were cut with a razor blade and placed in Magenta boxes. Ionic stress was imposed by submerging the petioles in 400 mM NaCl and re-cutting the petioles again while still submerged. Drought treatment was imposed by withholding nutrient solution. Plant material was harvested at various time points after the start of various stress treatments, immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80°C until use. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR assays were conducted as previously described (Taybi and Cushman CITATION) using 91 ng of DNase I-treated RNA for McCap2 and Fnr1 products. A 885-bp amplicon was obtained using McCap2-specific primers: 5′-ATAGGATCCGGGTCAGAGGAGGAATCA-3′ and 5′-ATACTGGAGTTATATATGGGATGCATTAAGG-3′. A 600-bp amplicon was obtained using Fnr1-specific primers: 5′-ATTGCCAGCAGGCCCTTG-3′ and 5′-GAACCAGTCAATACCATCT-3′. RT-PCR reactions were conducted in a 25 μl reaction containing 10 mM Tris–HCl (pH 8.3), 50 mM KCl, 2.5 μM MgCl2, 10 mM DTT, 100 μM each dNTP, 400 nM forward primer, 400 nM reverse primer, 20 units of RNase Out (Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA), 40 units of Superscript II RT (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA), 0.5 unit of Taq DNA polymerase (Fisher Scientific, Pittsburgh, PA, USA) and 91 ng of DNaseI-treated RNA. Reactions were conducted using a PTC-200 thermal cycler (MJ Research, Watertown, MA, USA) at 50°C for 30 min, at 94°C for 2 min to denature the RT, followed by 21 PCR cycles: 95°C for 1 min, 94°C for 15 s, either 50°C for Fnr1 or 54°C for McCap2 for 30 s, 72°C for 45 s, and 5 min of extension step at 72°C. After amplification, the reaction products were resolved by electrophoresis on a 1.2% (w/v) agarose gel and stained with ethidium bromide. Images were captured using a Gel-Doc™ 1000 DNA Gel Analysis and Documentation System (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA, USA). All semi-quantitative RT-PCR experiments were repeated twice. The vector for the production of recombinant McCPK1–6 × His was prepared as described (Chehab et al. CITATION) and transformed into BL21 cells. Transformed cells were grown in 2 × YT media with 50 μg/ml Kanamycin until an OD600 = 0.7. Protein expression was induced by adding IPTG to 1.0 mM. Cells were grown for 2 h and then harvested. Cells were disrupted by sonication in sonication buffer without the DTT. McCPK1–6 × His was purified from the crude sonicate by nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) resin (Novagen) affinity chromatography as previously described (Chehab et al. CITATION). GST–McCAP2 or GST was separately bound to glutathione agarose at ∼1 μg/μl. Five microliter of resin was incubated with 20 μl of interaction buffer (50 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 100 mM KCl, 2.5 mM MgCl2, 250 μM EGTA, 350 μM CaCl2, 0.01% Triton X-100, 1 μg/μl BSA, 1 μg of McCPK1–6 × His) for 30 min at 4°C with stirring. The resin was washed two times by vortexing with interaction buffer without McCPK1–6 × His and then one time with interaction buffer without BSA and McCPK1–6 × His. Proteins were eluted by adding warm SDS sample buffer and boiling for 5 min. Proteins were separated by 12% SDS-PAGE (Laemmli CITATION) and transferred to PVDF membrane. McCPK1–6 × His was detected by western blot analysis using anti-6 × His antibodies (BabCo, Richmond, CA, USA) and the BCIP/NBT detection system. The interaction assay was reproduced three times with similar results. McCPK1–6 × His and GST–McCAP2 fusion proteins were produced in Escherichia coli as described above. The protein kinase activity was assayed in a 50 μl reaction mixture containing 100 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 50 mM MgCl2, 0.25 mM EGTA, 350 μM CaCl2, 16.7 nM of recombinant McCPK1–6 × His and 0.25 μM GST–CSP1 or 0.25 μM GST–McCAP2. Calcium was omitted from the kinase assay without calcium. The assay was started by adding 3 μl of ATP mixture (96 μM unlabeled ATP and 9 μCi [32P]-γ-ATP) and incubated for 15 min at 30°C. Reactions were stopped by adding warm SDS sample buffer and boiling for five min. Proteins were separated by 12% SDS-PAGE (Laemmli CITATION) and visualized by Coomassie brilliant blue staining using biosafe GelCode® Blue Stain Reagent (Pierce, Rockford, IL, USA). The gel was dried and exposed directly to Hyperfilm™ ECL™ X-ray film (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) for 12–18 h at room temperature. The McCPK1–GFP and McCPK1–DsRed constructs were prepared as described previously (Patharkar and Cushman CITATION). The constructs expressing AtVTI1a (Arabidopsis Vesicle Transport through Interaction with t-SNARE homologue 1a)-GFP and BiP-GFP were kindly supplied by Inhan Hwang (Gyeongsang National University, Kyungbuk, Korea). The construct expressing GFP-KSRM was kindly supplied by Jeffery Harper (University of Nevada, Reno, NV, USA). The construct expressing McCAP2–GFP was created by PCR using native Pfu DNA polymerase and the following primers (5′-ATAGGATCCGACATGGCGGCGGAGGA-3′ and 5′-ATACCATGGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCCTGCTCCTATATGGGATGCATTAAGGG-3′). The amplification product was digested with NcoI/BamHI, and inserted into BamHI and NcoI sites of the 35S-GFP-TYG-nos vector kindly supplied by Jen Sheen (Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA) (Chiu et al. CITATION) resulting in the creation of a McCAP2–GFP fusion wherein McCAP2 and GFP proteins were separated by a flexible (GA)5 linker. The construct expressing McCAP2–DsRed was prepared by PCR using native Pfu DNA polymerase and the following primers (5′-ATAGTCGACATGGCGGCGGAGGATC-3′ and 5′-ATAGGATCCGCTCCTGCTCCTATATGGGATGCATTAAGGG-3′). The amplification product was digested with SalI/BamHI and inserted into the BamHI site and SalI site of pDsRed2-1 vector (Clontech, Inc., Palo Alto, CA, USA). Subsequently, the in-frame coding sequence of McCAP2–DsRed was swapped with the coding sequence of GFP between the SalI and NotI sites of the 35S-GFP-TYG-nos vector. This resulted in the cloning of McCAP2–DsRed between the CaMV35S promoter and the Nos terminator. A linker between McCAP2 and DsRed was used to provide flexibility and retain the properties of DsRed as a fluorescent protein. Five-week-old ice plants were bombarded with hand-held Helios® Gene Gun (Bio-Rad Laboratories) according to the manufacturer’s instructions except that after DNA was precipitated onto the Biolistic 1.6 Micron® Gold powder (Bio-Rad Laboratories) particles, the gold was washed five times with absolute ethanol. Each shot fired contained 0.2 mg of 1.6 μm gold particles. A force of 1,034 kPa was used to deliver the gold particles to leaves on intact plants. A diffuser screen was used to minimize tissue damage. Co-bombardment of McCAP2–DsRed and each of AtVTI1a-GFP and McCPK1–GFP constructs was accomplished by coating the 0.2 mg of gold with 0.5 μg McCAP2–DsRed and 0.5 μg of the GFP constructs. Co-bombardment of McCAP2–DsRed and each of BiP–GFP, AtVTI1a–GFP and GFP–KSRM constructs was accomplished by coating the 0.2 mg of gold with 0.8 μg McCAP2–DsRed and 0.2 μg of the GFP constructs. Plants were grown under unstressed conditions in an environment that maintained greater than or equal to 70% relative humidity. To stress the plants, they were removed from this high humidity environment, bombarded, and then placed in a lower humidity environment (∼40% relative humidity) for 13 h. Whole leaves were excised from plants and individual cells visualized with a Nikon Eclipse E400 epifluorescence microscope (Nikon Corp., Tokyo, Japan). GFP was visualized with a 450–490 nm excitation filter, a 495 dichroic mirror, and a 50–550 nm emission filter. DsRed was visualized with a 528–553 nm excitation filter, a 565 nm dichroic mirror, and a 600–660 nm emission filter. Five-week-old plants grown in ∼40% relative humidity were co-bombarded with constructs expressing McCAP2–GFP and McCPK1–6 × His, or with GFP and McCPK1–6 × His. Each shot was composed of 0.2 mg of gold and 1 μg of plasmid (0.5 μg of each plasmid per shot). The epidermal peels from the bombarded leaves where homogenized in IP buffer (10 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% Triton X-100) plus [10% glycerol, 1 μM cypermethrin, 250 nM okadaic acid, 1 mM sodium orthovanadate, Complete™ EDTA free protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche Molecular Biochemicals)]. For the McCPK1–6 × His lanes (Fig. 5a) epidermis was peeled from 24 shots, homogenized in 2 ml IP buffer, centrifuged at 20,000 × g for 5 min at 4°C to remove cell debris. The extract was split in two and 2 μg of anti-6 × His antibody (BabCo) was added to one of the aliquots and to the GFP/McCPK1–6 × His crude extract (Fig. 5b). The samples were incubated for 30 min, rocking at 4°C. Thirty microliters of p-nitrophenyl chloroformate-activated agarose beads (Sigma) that had goat anti-mouse IgG antibodies covalently attached to it (10 μg/μl) (Jackson ImmunoResearch, West Grove, PA, USA) were added to each sample and incubation was continued for another 2 h 30 min. The resin was washed three times with 300 μl of IP buffer. Proteins were eluted by boiling with SDS sample buffer, separated by 12% SDS-PAGE transferred to PVDF membrane and analyzed by western blot analysis using anti-GFP antibodies (Clontech) and a Western-Light Plus kit (Applied Biosystems, Bedford, MA, USA). To prepare crude extracts of proteins, fresh tissue was ground in liquid nitrogen and added to 4.5 ml of homogenization buffer [100 mM Tris–HCl pH 8.0, 1% SDS, 1% sodium-deoxycholate, 20 mM EDTA, one tablet of Complete™ EDTA-free protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche Molecular Biochemicals)]. Debris was pelleted by centrifugation at 1,000 × g for 10 min at 4°C. Nuclei isolation was performed as described in Chehab et al. (CITATION). The construct for the transient expression of AtH2A.Z-GFP and McCPK1–6 × His were prepared as described by Rodriguez Milla et al. (CITATION) and Chehab et al. (CITATION), respectively. The McCAP2–DHA (double hemaglutinin) fusion was prepared by PCR using native Pfu DNA polymerase and the following primers (5′-TATGGATCCACGGAGCAAGGGG-3′ and 5′-ATAAGGCCTTACCCATACGACG-3′). The amplified product was digested with StuI/BamHI and inserted between the StuI and BamH1 sites of the vector HBT95 (kindly provided by Jen Sheen, Mass General, Boston, USA). This resulted in the cloning of the fusion protein, McCAP2–DHA between the CaMV 35S promoter and Nos-terminator. Five-week-old plants were bombarded with the construct expressing McCAP2–DHA, McCPK1–6 × His or GFP–KSRM. Each shot was composed of 0.2 mg gold and 1 μg of plasmid. The epidermal peels from 30 shots of the bombarded area were harvested and homogenized in 2 ml of ice-cold homogenization buffer [50 mM HEPES·KOH pH 6.5, 13.5% sucrose (w/v), 10 mM NaCl, 1 tablet of Complete™ EDTA free protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche Molecular Biochemicals), and either 2 mM EDTA or 3 mM MgCl2]. All subsequent steps were carried out at 4°C. The extract was cleared by centrifugation at 2,000 × g for 15 min. The supernatant was layered on top of a 9 ml continuous sucrose gradient [54% (bottom)-15% (top)] in 10 mM HEPES·KOH pH 7.0, 10 mM potassium acetate and either 2 mM EDTA or 5 mM MgCl2. The gradients were spun at 150,000 × g for 3 h at 4°C in SW40.1 rotor. A canula (14 G × 4”) was used to take 12 fractions using a peristaltic pump (EP-1 Econo Pump Model, Bio-Rad Laboratories), set at a flow rate of 1.7 ml/min. The fractions were TCA precipitated by adding an equal volume of 20% (w/v) TCA to the protein sample, incubating the mixture 30 min on ice, then centrifuging it at 10,000 × g at 4°C for 15 min. After removing the supernatant, 300 μl of cold acetone was added and the solution was immediately spun at 10,000 × g for 5 min at 4°C. The pellet was air dried, resuspended in 50 μl of Homogenization Buffer without sucrose and stored at −80°C. Protein fractions were resolved by 12% SDS PAGE and protein bands were detected using the Western-Light Plus™ system (Applied Biosystems). After the fractions were isolated from leaf tissue and separated by 12% SDS-PAGE as described previously, they were analyzed by western blot analysis using appropriate antibodies and visualized using either a Western-Light Plus kit (Applied Biosystems) according to the manufacturer’s instructions or by applying 0.33 mg/ml of NBT and 0.165 mg/ml of BCIP in alkaline phosphatase buffer (100 mM Tris pH 9.5, 100 mM NaCl, 5 mM MgCl2). Anti-GFP antibody was used to identify the nuclear and peroxisomes fractions by detecting GFP-KSRM and AtH2A.Z-GFP, respectively (1:5,000 dilution in TBS) (Clontech). Anti-Hsc70 (BiP) antibody was used to identify endoplasmic reticulum fractions (1 μg of antibody/1 ml of TBS, StressGen, Victoria, BC, Canada). Anti-6 × His was used to detect McCPK1–6 × His (1:1000 dilution in TBS) (BabCo), and finally, anti-HA (1:1,000 dilution in TBS) (Sigma) was used to detect fractions containing McCAP2–DHA.
