!~ABS~! hBRCA1 and hBARD1 are tumor suppressor proteins that are involved as heterodimer via ubiquitinylation in many cellular processes, such as DNA repair. Loss of BRCA1 or BARD1 results in early embryonic lethality and chromosomal instability. The Arabidopsis genome carries a BRCA1 homologue, and we were able to identify a BARD1 homologue. AtBRCA1 and the putative AtBARD1 protein are able to interact with each other as indicated by in vitro and in planta experiments. We have identified T‐DNA insertion mutants for both genes, which show no visible phenotype under standard growth conditions and are fully fertile. Thus, in contrast to animals, both genes have no indispensable role during development and meiosis in plants. The two single as well as the double mutant are to a similar extent sensitive to mitomycin C, indicating an epistatic interaction in DNA crosslink repair. We could further demonstrate that in Arabidopsis BARD1 plays a prominent role in the regulation of homologous DNA repair in somatic cells.
!~RES~! The characteristic feature of both hBRCA1 and hBARD1 is the presence of a conserved RING as well as two BRCT domains. Orthologues of hBRCA1 and hBARD1 in Mus musculus, C. elegans or X. laevis display a similar domain structure (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To identify putative BARD1 homologues in the Arabidopsis genome, a database search was carried out in TAIR‐BLASTP using hBARD1 as template (NP000456). This search resulted in two significant hits: At4g21070, which had previously been classified as the hBRCA1 homologue of Arabidopsis (CITATION), and At1g04020. The homology of AtBRCA1 to the hBARD1 protein is restricted to the previously mentioned conserved RING and BRCT domains. However, At1g04020 has additional homology to hBARD1 outside the RING and BRCT domains, in total 22% amino‐acid identity and 38% similarity (FIG-REF). We therefore assumed that At1g04020 might be the BARD1 homologue of Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] Using mRNA from Arabidopsis flowers as template, the cDNA from At1g04020 could be amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). By RACE‐PCR with nested gene‐specific primers, 5′ and 3′ ends were obtained. The ORF of full‐length AtBARD1 has a total length of 2145 bp, contains 13 exons, and codes for a protein of 714 aa (FIG-REF). A cDNA clone (BX815982) from the GenBank confirmed this structure. The ORF of AtBRCA1 was also determined by RACE‐PCR. In line with cDNA clones from SALK (U24692, R24692 and AF515728), we identified the ORF of full‐length AtBRCA1 consisting of 2826 bp, containing 14 exons and coding for a protein of 941 aa. This is in contrast to the original report of CITATION who identified the ORF of full‐length AtBRCA1 consisting of 4485 bp and 15 exons. The first exon postulated by CITATION is part of another gene rather than the ORF of AtBRCA1. In plants it was demonstrated before that some genes coding for proteins involved in nucleotide metabolism and DNA repair can be induced by DNA damage, among them AtBRCA1 (e.g. CITATION; CITATION). To characterise a possible correlation between the expression of AtBRCA1 and AtBARD1 2‐week‐old seedlings were irradiated by γ‐ray (100 Gy) and the transcript amount of both genes was measured after 1 h by quantitative real‐time PCR (FIG-REF). As reported previously, a strong induction of the AtBRCA1 transcript could be detected. In contrast, no significant change of the mRNA level of AtBARD1 was found. Additionally, the expression of both genes in different tissues of 6–8‐week‐old Arabidopsis plants was analysed. RNA from roots, rosette leaves, inflorescence, young cauline leaves, flowers and siliques was isolated and the transcript amount of both genes was measured via real‐time PCR. Higher amounts of mRNA of both AtBRCA1 and AtBARD1 could be detected in flowers and siliques. The expression in roots, rosette leaves, inflorescence and young cauline leaves was low (FIG-REF). Thus, in contrast to the application of genotoxic stress, the expression pattern of both genes in different organs correlated well, hinting to a functional interaction. [[FIGURE]] To test whether AtBRCA1 and the putative AtBARD1 protein are also able to interact directly, a two‐hybrid analysis was performed. First, it was tested whether AtBRCA1 and AtBARD1 contained an activation domain. It was previously demonstrated that this is the case for the hBRCA1 protein, whereas so far this has not been reported for the hBARD1 protein (CITATION). With the help of the LexA‐based yeast two‐hybrid system, we could clearly demonstrate that the full‐length AtBARD1 protein contained an autoactivation domain (FIG-REF). Unfortunately, no consistent results were obtained using the full‐length AtBRCA1 protein. This might reflect the presence of a weak transcriptional activation domain. Thus, in this assay it was only possible to use truncated versions of AtBRCA1 or AtBARD1 as bait. An N‐terminal fragment of AtBRCA1 coding for the first 59 aa and containing the RING domain did not display any autoactivation and was used as bait. As prey the full‐length AtBARD1 protein and a C‐terminal AtBARD1 fragment containing the BRCT repeats but missing the RING domain were constructed. Indeed, an interaction of the RING domain of AtBRCA1 with the full‐length AtBARD1 protein could be demonstrated (FIG-REF), whereas no interaction of the RING domain of AtBRCA1 with the C‐terminal part of the AtBARD1 protein was found. Unfortunately, we failed to detect an interaction using the RING domain of AtBARD1 as bait and the complete AtBRCA1 protein (result not shown). However, it is not uncommon in two‐hybrid analysis that only certain bait and prey combinations result in detectable interactions (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To further sustain our observation that AtBRCA1 and AtBARD1 interact, in vivo studies were carried out. We used a well‐established method of bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC; CITATION) for the in vivo detection of protein–protein interactions, namely the split YFP system (CITATION). Briefly, the assay is based on the observation that a N‐ (YN) and a C‐terminal (YC) fragment of the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) can only reconstitute a functional fluorophore when they are brought into tight contact. Two ORFs, driven by a double 35S promoter, are fused on separate plasmids to the respective YFP fragments; next, both constructs are brought into a plant cell for expression and the interaction of the fusion proteins can be monitored via epifluorescence microscopy. To confirm the possible interaction between AtBRCA1 and AtBARD1, the full‐length AtBRCA1 ORF, the first N terminal 88 aa coding for the AtBRCA1 RING domain and the last 797 C‐terminal aa of the ORF of AtBRCA1 were fused to the C‐terminal part of the YFP protein. The full‐length AtBARD1 ORF was fused to the N‐terminal part of the YFP protein. Next, the different constructs, together with a plasmid containing the CPRF2 protein (common plant regulatory factor 2) fused to CFP as nuclear marker (e.g. FIG-REF), were transiently expressed after particle bombardment in etiolated mustard seedlings. As positive control, the ASK1 protein fused to the N‐terminus of YFP, and an EID1‐YFP‐C‐terminal fusion was used (FIG-REF). EID1 and ASK1 are interacting proteins of the Skp1‐Cullin‐F‐box‐protein ubiquitin ligase that targets proteins for degradation and functions as a negative regulator in phytochrome A‐specific light signalling. The negative control was a deleted version of the EID1 (EID1ΔF) protein not able to interact with ASK1 (FIG-REF; CITATION). As further controls AtBRCA1 or AtBARD1 constructs fused with the N‐ or C‐terminal part of the YFP protein, respectively, were used together with the respective pMAV‐GW‐YN and pMAV‐GW‐YC empty vectors. After an overnight incubation period, the seedlings were screened for the presence of an YFP signal. Routinely, 1–5 transfected cells per seedling were obtained. The results are based on at least two independent experiments using four mustard seedlings for each transfection. For each single combination, the results were uniform, that is, besides the CFP signal, either in all or in none of the transfected cells an YFP signal could be detected. Not only in case of the full‐length ORF of AtBRCA1 combined with the complete AtBARD1 protein an YFP signal could be detected (FIG-REF), but also in the AtBRCA1 RING domain and the AtBARD1 protein (FIG-REF). No YFP signal was observed when the C‐terminus of AtBRCA1 was coexpressed with the AtBARD1 protein (FIG-REF). No YFP signal could be obtained when combinations of the single constructs of AtBRCA1 and AtBARD1 with the pMAV‐GW‐YN and pMAV‐GW‐YC empty vectors were used (FIG-REF). Taken together, our experiments clearly demonstrate that AtBARD1 and AtBRCA1 are able to interact, and that this interaction is mediated by the AtBRCA1 RING domain. This is in line with our experiments from the two‐hybrid system. Functional studies were necessary in order to elucidate the biological role of the BARD1 homologue in plants. The putative AtBARD1 gene sequence was used to screen the sequence database of T‐DNA insertion mutants on the SIGnAL webpage (Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory; CITATION). Two atbard1 T‐DNA mutant lines were identified. The respective plants were obtained, propagated, and homozygous individuals of the respective insertions could be identified. The insertion sites were determined in detail by PCR. FIG-REF provides a detailed characterisation of the T‐DNA insertions of AtBARD1. [[FIGURE]] The two atbard1 T‐DNA insertions are located at the beginning of the gene. Both insertions carry left T‐DNA borders at their ends, indicating the integration of a double T‐DNA insert in inverted orientation. The first insertion, SALK_097601, atbard1‐1, is present in the first intron and results in a deletion of 18 nucleotides. The second insertion, SALK_031862, atbard1‐2, is located in the third exon, which codes for the N‐terminal RING domain and leads to a deletion of 5 nucleotides within the coding sequence (FIG-REF). In order to assess the expression level of AtBARD1 in the homozygous T‐DNA lines, reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction (RT–PCR) experiments were performed with homozygous mutants using primer pairs binding in front, across and after the insertions (FIG-REF). In case of both lines, expression of an mRNA before the insertion could be demonstrated (FIG-REF). With primers spanning across the insertions, we were not able to amplify any product for both alleles. An expression after the insertion was detected for atbard1‐1. In contrast, no expression could be found for atbard1‐2, indicating that this allele most probably represents a ‘true’ null atbard1 mutation. In comparison to wild‐type plants, all plant lines homozygous for the respective insertions did not differ in their phenotypes when grown under standard conditions. However, when challenged with the DNA crosslinking agent mitomycin C (MMC), the T‐DNA insertion mutants showed a more sensitive phenotype as compared to wild‐type seedlings (FIG-REF). The mutant seedlings were smaller and less viable. Interestingly, the line atbard1‐2 showed a slightly stronger phenotype after treatment with MMC than atbard1‐1. Other mutagenic treatments with bleomycin or UV radiation did not display an increased sensitivity in the mutant background (results not shown). [[FIGURE]] We checked whether the selfed progeny of the T‐DNA mutant atbard1 plants was fertile in order to test whether the AtBARD1 protein plays a role during meiosis. Both atbard1 T‐DNA insertion mutants produced viable seeds at similar numbers as the wild‐type plants. As minor meiotic defects are often correlated with reduced viability of male gametes, pollen of both mutants were analysed with CITATION staining. However, a similar number of viable pollen could be detected in wild‐type and mutant anthers, indicating that AtBARD1 is not necessarily required for the progression of meiosis in plants (data not shown). To test the frequency of somatic HR in planta, a well‐established recombination assay using the transgenic line 651 was performed (CITATION). The recombination substrate within the transgene consists of two overlapping fragments of the β‐glucuronidase gene (GUS; uidA) interrupted by a hygromycin selectable marker gene. The separated uidA sequences share a common overlap of 566 bp in inverted orientation. HR between the two overlapping DNA sequences produces a functional uidA gene. Cell clusters expressing β‐glucuronidase activity can be detected as blue sectors after histochemical staining, and it was shown before that these sectors indeed arise from recombination events (CITATION). The homozygous atbard1‐1 and 1‐2 mutants were crossed with a transgenic line carrying the 651 transgene and selfed again to obtain plants homozygous with respect to the atbard1 insertion as well as the 651 transgene. Seedlings were incubated in liquid germination medium (GM) with and without bleomycin (10 μg/ml). Bleomycin is a radiomimeticum causing single‐stranded breaks (SSB) and DSB (CITATION). Next, recombination events were counted in 12‐day‐old seedlings. For both mutant atbard1 lines, the distribution and frequency of recombination events were determined. FIG-REF shows a representative individual experiment for each mutant line. The significance of the differences of the HR events between mutants and segregated control plants was confirmed by the pair‐wise nonparametric Mann–Whitney U‐test. The experiment was repeated three times for each line (Table I). In all three independent experiments, a significant reduction of HR was found in the mutant backgrounds, either with or without genotoxic stress. A comparison between the untreated segregated control plants and the untreated atbard1‐1 and atbard1‐2 homozygous plants showed that the frequency of recombination events in the mutant plants was 2–3 times and about 10 times lower, respectively, as compared to the control line (FIG-REF; Table I). [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] When both mutant atbard1 lines were challenged with bleomycin (10 μg/ml), the frequency of recombination events increased by about two orders of magnitude in the control lines, whereas the induction was significantly lower in both atbard1‐1 and atbard1‐2 lines (FIG-REF; Table I). This is also demonstrated by the fact that in all cases the relation between the mean recombination frequencies of mutant (m2) and segregated control plants (m1) was lower with than without application of genotoxic stress (see Table I last column m2/m1). Taking into account the enhanced sensitivity to MMC of atbard1‐2 in comparison to atbard1‐1, the differences between the two mutants in HR can be taken as a hint that only in case of atbard1‐2 the insertion of the T‐DNA into the gene resulted in a ‘true’ null mutation. Independent of the different degrees of deficiency found in the two mutant lines, our results clearly demonstrate that AtBARD1 is not only required for the repair of DSBs by HR under standard growth conditions, but also for the regulation of HR induction after application of genotoxic stress. Our two‐hybrid data as well as in planta experiments indicated that AtBARD1 and AtBRCA1 physically interact. To demonstrate a genetic interaction we screened the sequence databases of T‐DNA insertion mutants on the SIGnAL (Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory; CITATION) and Garlic (Syngenta) webpages (CITATION). Two atbrca1 T‐DNA mutant lines were identified. The insertion sites were determined in detail by PCR. FIG-REF provides a precise characterisation of the T‐DNA insertions in the AtBRCA1 gene. The first insertion in the AtBRCA1 gene, SALK 014731, atbrca1‐1, is located in the fourth exon. Left borders of T‐DNA were found at both ends of the insert, indicating the integration of T‐DNAs in tandem inverted orientation. The integration led to the deletion of 18 nucleotides of the fourth exon (FIG-REF). The second insertion, GARLIC 916_C09, atbrca1‐2, was located in the fifth intron more to the middle of the gene, and the insert is flanked by a right and a left T‐DNA border. This insertion led to the deletion of eight nucleotides of the fifth intron (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] A precise analysis of the AtBRCA1 expression level in the atbrca1 mutant lines demonstrated that the expression level of the mRNA in front of the T‐DNA inserts was unchanged (FIG-REF). With primers spanning the insertion sites, we were not able to amplify any product, neither from the atbrca1‐1 nor from the atbrca1‐2 allele. Primers downstream of the insertion demonstrated that the expression in the atbrca1‐1 line is drastically reduced as compared to the wild‐type AtBRCA1 expression, whereas the expression in the atbrca1‐2 line is moderately increased. Both insertion lines were viable and fully fertile. Moreover, both lines were sensitive to MMC (FIG-REF). The atbrca1‐1 mutant line was crossed with the mutant atbard1‐2 line to create an atbard1‐2/atbrca1‐1 double mutant. To elucidate whether both proteins act in the same DNA repair pathway, we quantified in repeated experiments the degree of MMC sensitivity by fresh weight determination of the double mutant in comparison with both single mutants (FIG-REF). Indeed, the double mutant was not more sensitive than each of the single mutants, indicating that AtBRCA1 and AtBARD1 are epistatic for DNA cross‐link repair. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The atbard1 T‐DNA insertion lines (SALK_097601 and SALK_031862) as well as the atbrca1 insertion line SALK_014731 were obtained from the Arabidopsis T‐DNA collection in Nottingham. The atbrca1 insertion line, Garlic line 916_C09, was obtained from the T‐DNA collection of Syngenta Biotechnology Inc. (SBI). To obtain 651/atbard1 plants, homozygous lines for atbard1 were crossed with plants homozygous for the transgene 651, carrying a scorable recombination substrate (CITATION in C24 background). Siblings homozygous for 651 transgene and homozygous for the AtBARD1 wild‐type alleles were used as control lines. Seeds of A. thaliana were surface sterilised in 6% sodium hypochlorite for 8 min and rinsed several times with sterile water. Plants were grown in growth chambers at 23°C under white light (16 h light/8 h dark). Sterilised seeds were spread on GM agar containing different concentrations of MMC. Two weeks later, plants were screened for their sensitivity. One‐week‐old seedlings were transferred to Petri dishes containing liquid GM medium. The next day bleomycin was added (Duchefa) to a concentration of 10 μg/ml, 5 days later the seedlings were used for GUS staining. Histochemical staining was performed as described by CITATION. Plants were destained in 70% ethanol. Blue spots were counted under a binocular. Yeast two‐hybrid experiments were performed with the yeast strain EGY48 (MATα his3, trp1, ura3 LexAop*6‐LEU2), which had been transformed by integration of the linearised reporter plasmid p8op‐lacZ into the genome (carrying a lacZ reporter gene under the control of eight LexA operators) (CITATION). Arabidopsis AtBRCA1 and AtBARD1 sequences, either full‐length or truncated, were amplified by PCR as EcoR1 and Xho1/Sal1 fragments and cloned into the EcoR1–Xho1 sites of the bait and prey vectors pGildaBD and pB42AD in order to create an in‐frame fusion protein. Primer pairs are listed in the Supplementary data. Two‐hybrid assays were performed as described by CITATION and according to the manufacturer's instructions (Clontech). AtBRCA1 or fragments of AtBRCA1 were fused with the C‐terminal part of the YFP protein whereas AtBARD1 was fused to the N‐terminal part of YFP. AtBRCA1 full‐length, RING and C‐terminal fragments as well as the AtBARD1 full‐length fragment were cloned into the pMAV‐GW‐YN and pMAV‐GW‐YC vectors, respectively, via two‐step Gateway cloning (Invitrogen). Primer pairs are listed in the Supplementary data. Constructs were introduced by biolistic transformation into mustard seedlings as described by CITATION. Vector combinations (samples and controls) were used (1–2 μg of each plasmid) as described by CITATION. Images were captured on a Zeiss Axioscope 2 microscope with a Zeiss Axiocam video camera and enhanced using Adobe Photoshop 6.0 Software. Total RNA was isolated with the help of the Qiagen Total RNA isolation kit. Next, RNA was treated with RNAse free DNAse, followed by a reverse transcription with MuMLV reverse transcriptase and polydT as first‐strand synthesis primer. Real‐time PCR analysis was performed as described (CITATION). Primers for quantitative RT–PCR are listed in the Supplementary data. Sequence searches were performed using TAIR BLASTP 2.0. Protein sequences were aligned by pileup. Sequence files were exported to ESPript 2.0 at http://prodes.toulouse.inra.fr/ESPript/cgi-bin/nph-ESPript_exe.cgi for box‐shading analysis. Supplementary data are available at The EMBO Journal Online (http://embojournal.org).
