!~ABS~! We have used reverse-genetic analysis to investigate the function of MAP3K ɛ 1 and MAP3K ɛ 2, a pair of closely related Arabidopsis thaliana genes that encode protein kinases. Plants homozygous for either map3k ɛ 1 or map3k ɛ 2 displayed no apparent mutant phenotype, whereas the double-mutant combination caused pollen lethality. Transmission of the double-mutant combination through the female gametophyte was normal. Tetrad analysis performed using the Arabidopsis quartet mutation demonstrated that the pollen-lethal phenotype segregated at meiosis with the map3k ɛ 1;map3k ɛ 2 genotype. We used transmission electron microscopy to determine that double-mutant pollen grains develop plasma membrane irregularities following pollen mitosis I. Analysis of the subcellular localization of a yellow fluorescent protein (YFP):MAP3Kɛ1 fusion protein using confocal microscopy and biochemical fractionation indicated that a substantial portion of the MAP3Kɛ1 present in Arabidopsis cells is localized to the plasma membrane. Taken together, our results suggest that MAP3Kɛ1 is required for the normal functioning of the plasma membrane in developing Arabidopsis pollen.
!~RES~! Insertional mutations within MAP3Kɛ1 and MAP3Kɛ2 were obtained from the Salk Institute's collection of T-DNA transformed Arabidopsis lines (CITATION). We used DNA sequencing to determine the precise locations of the T-DNA insertions in the mutant lines. In map3kɛ1, the T-DNA was located in exon 8; in map3kɛ2 the T-DNA was located in the intron between exon 6 and exon 7 (Figure 1). Reverse-transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR) was used to determine the effect that these T-DNA insertions had on the messenger RNA levels of these two genes. Total RNA from plants homozygous for either map3kɛ1 or map3kɛ2 was analyzed using primers that amplify a region of the wild-type transcript that spans the location of the T-DNA insertion in each gene (Figure 1). Messenger RNA was detected in wild-type Columbia plants for both genes. By contrast, no MAP3Kɛ1 message was detected in the map3kɛ1 homozygous plants, and no MAP3Kɛ2 message was detected in the map3kɛ2 homozygotes (Figure 1). These results indicated that no full-length transcript is produced in these T-DNA lines. [[FIGURE]] To further characterize map3kɛ1 and map3kɛ2 we also performed quantitative, real-time RT-PCR using primer pairs located downstream of each T-DNA insertion site. Using these primers, we detected a truncated message in map3kɛ1 plants at a level about 10-fold lower than that of the full-length message made by wild-type plants. No detectable downstream RNA was produced in the map3kɛ2 plants, suggesting that map3kɛ2 constitutes a null allele. We have observed in our studies of other SALK T-DNA lines that the left border region often has the capacity to serve as a promoter driving expression of downstream sequences (data not shown). The genetic analysis that we report later in this study provides conclusive evidence that the map3kɛ1;map3kɛ2 double-mutant combination causes pollen lethality. This result indicates that the map3kɛ1 mutation severely compromises the function of the MAP3Kɛ1 gene. Because an ectopic copy of the wild-type MAP3Kɛ1 is able to rescue this pollen lethality, map3kɛ1 constitutes a recessive, loss-of-function allele. We did not observe any abnormal phenotypes in plants homozygous for either map3kɛ1 or map3kɛ2 when grown under standard laboratory conditions. In addition, each of these mutant alleles displayed a normal Mendelian segregation ratio (Table 1). As MAP3Kɛ1 and MAP3Kɛ2 are closely related genes, it seemed likely that functional redundancy could be masking the appearance of a mutant phenotype in these homozygous lines (CITATION). Therefore, map3kɛ1 and map3kɛ2 plants were crossed to create double mutants. One of the resulting double-heterozygous lines was then allowed to self-fertilize, and more than 400 individuals from the resulting population were genotyped using PCR. No homozygous double mutants were found. However, plants homozygous-mutant at one locus and heterozygous at the other were found. One such plant with the genotype map3kɛ1/MAP3Kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2 was allowed to self-pollinate, and although we genotyped 201 of its progeny, we still failed to recover any homozygous double mutants (Table 1). In addition, the segregation ratio displayed by the map3kɛ1 mutation in this population was 1:1, suggesting that a gametophyte-lethal mutation was segregating (Table 1). Genotypes of a364 progeny, b175 progeny and c200 progeny were determined by PCR. dPercentage of total progeny. We next performed reciprocal crosses between a map3kɛ1/MAP3Kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2 plant and a wild-type Columbia plant to test for gametophytic defects. Progeny from the reciprocal crosses were genotyped by PCR to test for transmission of the map3kɛ1 mutant allele. It was determined that the map3kɛ1;map3kɛ2 combination could not be transmitted through pollen (Table 2). Transmission through the female gametophyte was normal. Reciprocal crosses were performed between wild-type and map3kɛ/MAP3Kɛ1;map3kɛ2;map3kɛ2 parents. The genotypes of 370 progeny from these crosses were determined by PCR and used to infer the genotype of the gamete contributed by the mutant parent in each cross. aThe number in parentheses indicates the percentage of gametes with the given genotype. We used genetic complementation to confirm that the inability of map3kɛ1;map3kɛ2 to be transmitted by pollen was due to mutation of the map3kɛ genes. An approximately 11-kb fragment of genomic DNA encompassing the wild-type MAP3Kɛ1 locus was PCR amplified, cloned into a binary vector and introduced into map3kɛ1/MAP3Kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2 plants via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Progeny of the primary transformants were screened by PCR to identify plants that were homozygous double mutant at the native MAP3Kɛ1 and MAP3Kɛ2 loci. For this analysis we made use of PCR primers that can distinguish the endogenous MAP3Kɛ1 locus from the introduced copy of MAP3Kɛ1. Using this strategy, we were able to generate map3kɛ1/map3kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2 plants only when the lines also carried an ectopic copy of MAP3Kɛ1. Controls transformed using the binary vector alone did not yield any homozygous double-mutant progeny. These results indicated that the segregating mutation responsible for pollen lethality is map3kɛ1. The pollen lethality caused by map3kɛ1 is only observed in plants that are also homozygous for map3kɛ2, presumably due to functional redundancy. In order to further confirm these molecular complementation results, we performed genetic analysis of map3kɛ1/map3kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2 plants that were hemizygous for an ectopic copy of MAP3Kɛ1 by performing reciprocal crosses between these plants and wild-type Columbia. As the T-DNA vector used to introduce the ectopic copy of MAP3Kɛ1 also encodes resistance to the herbicide Basta, transmission of the ectopic MAP3Kɛ1 construct was measured by plating the progeny of these crosses onto growth media containing Basta. When plants segregating the ectopic MAP3Kɛ1 construct were used as the pollen donor, 100% of the progeny were Basta resistant, indicating that the MAP3Kɛ1 locus is required for pollen function (Table 3). By contrast, when plants segregating the ectopic MAP3Kɛ1 construct were fertilized with wild-type pollen about 50% of the progeny were Basta sensitive and about 50% were Basta resistant (Table 3), confirming that the MAP3Kɛ1 locus is not essential for the function of the female gametophyte. Reciprocal crosses were performed between wild-type and rescued mutant lines (map3kɛmap3kɛ1;map3kɛ2;map3kɛ2;qrt1-2/qrt1-2 with an ectopic copy of MAP3Kɛ1). Transmission of the ectopic copy of MAP3Kɛ1 was monitored by scoring resistance of the seedlings to the herbicide Basta. The rescued mutant line was used as either the female or male parent in the crosses. cThe number in parentheses indicates the percentage of progeny in the given category. The genetic analyses described above indicated that the map3kɛ1;map3kɛ2 combination cannot be transmitted through the male gamete. Failure to transmit mutant alleles through the pollen can be caused by defects in pollen viability, germination, pollen tube growth or fertilization. In order to decide between these possibilities, we began by testing for pollen viability using Alexander's staining (CITATION). Mature pollen grains from wild-type plants appear as full, round, red-stained grains when treated with Alexander's stain. As seen in Figure 2(a,b), pollen isolated from map3kɛ1/map3kɛ1;map3kɛ2/MAP3Kɛ2 and map3kɛ1/MAP3Kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2 plants was composed of a mixture of viable and dead pollen, suggesting that the double-mutant combination may cause pollen lethality. In order to determine whether a mutation segregating at meiosis was responsible for this pollen lethality, we made use of the Arabidopsis quartet mutation. Plants homozygous for the quartet mutation produce pollen in which the four products of meiosis remain physically stuck together, resulting in quartets of pollen grains (CITATION). By segregating a mutation in the quartet background, it is possible to examine the four products of meiosis. We therefore crossed a map3kɛ1/MAP3Kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2 plant to a qrt1-2/qrt1-2 plant and selected progeny in subsequent generations by genotype at the MAP3Kɛ1 and MAP3Kɛ2 loci and by phenotype at the QRT locus. When the quartets of pollen produced by a map3kɛ1/MAP3Kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2;qrt1-2/qrt1-2 plant were analyzed by Alexander's staining, we always observed two viable pollen grains and two dead pollen grains (n = 620 quartets). By contrast, pollen from a qrt1-2/qrt1-2 plant always produced quartets in which all four pollen grains were viable (Figure 2c,d). These data, in conjunction with the additional genetic analyses described above, indicated that segregation of the map3kɛ1 mutation at meiosis was responsible for the pollen lethality observed in map3kɛ1/MAP3Kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2;qrt1-2/qrt1-2 plants. As shown earlier, the pollen lethality of map3kɛ1 is dependent on the presence of the map3kɛ2 mutation. [[FIGURE]] In order to determine the developmental stage at which pollen lethality occurred, we observed pollen isolated from map3kɛ1/MAP3Kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2;qrt1-2/qrt1-2 plants at various stages of floral development. By using the quartet background we were able to directly compare wild-type and mutant pollen derived from the same microsporocyte. Pollen was isolated from flowers ranging from stage −3 to stage +2, where stage +1 corresponds to the first opened flower. Lower numbers represent flower buds before the opened stage and higher numbers indicate flowers after the opened stage. The fluorescent stain 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) is an effective method of monitoring the nuclei of pollen because of the stain's preference for binding to nucleic acids. At flower stage −3, the quartet of microspores has completed meiosis, and a single nucleus can be seen in each of the four members of the quartet (Figure 3a). No differences can be seen between the four pollen grains at this stage, suggesting that the double-mutant combination does not affect meiosis or early pollen development. [[FIGURE]] Pollen from stage 0 flowers is expected to have completed the second mitotic division. Each wild-type pollen grain should therefore contain two sperm nuclei and one vegetative nucleus. When stained with DAPI, sperm nuclei appear as compact, bright spots of blue, while the vegetative nucleus appears as a diffuse patch of blue, which is sometimes difficult to observe. We often observed that three of the four pollen grains from stage 0 flowers contained two sperm nuclei, while the fourth grain contained only one (Figure 3b). These results indicated that one of the mutant pollen grains was able to proceed through pollen mitosis II, while the other appeared to have stopped development sometime between pollen mitosis I and II. When DAPI staining was performed on quartets of mature pollen, we always observed two normal, wild-type pollen grains and two dead pollen grains with no visible DAPI staining (data not shown). These observations are consistent with the results we obtained using Alexander's stain. Our analysis of the DAPI staining pattern of pollen from various developmental stages indicated that pollen lethality occurs after the completion of pollen mitosis I, and in many cases not until after the completion of pollen mitosis II. Pollen isolated from map3kɛ1/map3kɛ1;map3kɛ2/MAP3Kɛ2;qrt1-2/qrt1-2 plants gave the same results when analyzed by DAPI staining. In order to better understand the phenotype of the double-mutant pollen, we attempted to identify the first structural defects that arise during the course of map3kɛ1;map3kɛ2 pollen development. Based on our preliminary analysis using DAPI staining, we focused these studies on the stages of development between pollen mitosis I and pollen mitosis II. Transmission electron microscope analysis of large numbers of pollen grains collected from map3kɛ1/MAP3Kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2 anthers revealed that mutant phenotypes were detectable only following the completion of pollen mitosis I. Two distinct classes of mutant pollen were observed, and examples of each are shown in Figure 4. [[FIGURE]] Class I mutant pollen has three characteristic features: irregularity of the plasma membrane, a thickened intine layer and degenerating mitochondria. A representative class I mutant is shown in Figure 4. The plasma membranes of these pollen grains have an irregular shape when compared with wild type and feature unusual invaginations that protrude into the cytoplasm (Figure 4h). In addition, the intine layer of the mutants appears thicker than wild type (Figure 4e,h). The intine layers of three representative wild-type and mutant pollen grains were measured at 24 positions around the perimeter of each pollen grain in order to determine the average intine thickness. The average intine thickness was 97 nm for wild type and 368 nm for the class I mutant. The final characteristic of class I mutant pollen is mitochondrial degeneration. Compared to wild-type mitochondria (Figure 4d,g), mitochondria in class I mutants are swollen, with a lightly stained matrix and reduced cristae (Figure 4e,h). Despite these abnormalities, however, class I mutant pollen contains an intact generative cell (Figure 4k), suggesting that pollen mitosis I has completed normally in these mutants. Class II mutant pollen has three characteristic features: plasma membrane irregularity, a thickened intine layer and unusual vacuole-like structures. These first two characteristics are shared with class I mutants. The unique features of class II mutants are that they have normal mitochondria but abnormal vacuole-like structures. These vacuole-like structures are not found in wild-type pollen at this stage of development. Representative class II mutant pollen grains are shown in Figure 4. Despite the abnormal plasma membrane present in this pollen, class II mutants are able to complete pollen mitosis II, as indicated by the presence of the two sperm cells in the cytoplasm of the vegetative cell (Figure 4c,l,m). These sperm cells appeared to have a normal structure and organization, suggesting that the mutations do not directly affect mitosis or cell division. Instead, the main effects appear to be a disruption of the plasma membrane, thickening of the intine and the appearance of unusual vacuole-like structures. Transmission electron microscope analysis of mature pollen collected from map3kɛ1/MAP3Kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2 anthers revealed that about 50% of the pollen population was fully collapsed with full degradation of cellular structures (data not shown). These observations indicated that the two distinct classes of mutant pollen share the same fate and are indistinguishable at the mature pollen stage. The analysis described above indicated that class II mutant pollen grains develop unusual structures that have the appearance of vacuoles when viewed using TEM. In order to determine whether these unusual structures were indeed vacuoles, we made use of neutral red, which serves as a vacuole-specific fluorescent dye. Neutral red has been shown to accumulate in vacuoles and vesicles, and its fluorescence is affected by the pH of the vacuoles (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). By choosing appropriate excitation and emission filters, neutral red-specific fluorescence of vacuoles can be detected in pollen using confocal microscopy. Pollen grains were collected from the flowers of a map3kɛ1/MAP3Kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2;qrt1-2/qrt1-2 plant at the stage in development where the unusual vacuole-like structures appear in class II mutants. This developmental stage is the same as that used for the TEM experiments displayed in Figure 4. At this stage of development wild-type pollen does not contain any large vacuole structures (CITATION). By using the quartet background for this experiment, we were able to directly compare wild-type pollen grains and mutant pollen grains in the same tetrad. As a control, pollen from a qrt1-2 plant was also analyzed. In this case, all four members of the quartet should display a wild-type phenotype. As seen in Figure 5(a), the four wild-type pollen grains show only a low level of vacuole-specific neutral red fluorescence (Figure 5a, upper panel). The merged image in the lower panel overlays the vacuole-specific fluorescence collected in the red channel with cell wall autofluorescence collected in the green channel. Cell wall autofluorescence was used to demarcate the positions of the four members of the tetrad. [[FIGURE]] When pollen from a map3kɛ1/MAP3Kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2;qrt1-2/qrt1-2 plant was analyzed using this same procedure, it was often observed that one of the mutant pollen grains present in the quartet displayed strong vacuole-specific neutral red fluorescence (Figure 5b). This result suggests that the large vacuole-like structures observed via TEM in the class II mutants are indeed vacuoles as opposed to other cellular structures. Because class I and class II mutant pollen grains occur with approximately equal frequency, and only the class II mutants show the large vacuole structures under TEM analysis, it is expected that only about 50% of the mutant pollen grains should generate vacuole-specific fluorescence. Consistent with this prediction, our analysis of several dozen quartets indicated that only one of the mutant pollen grains in a given quartet displayed strong vacuole-specific, neutral red fluorescence. The TEM analysis described above indicated that one of the phenotypic consequences of mutating MAP3Kɛ1 and MAP3Kɛ2 was a disruption of the normal functioning of the plasma membrane. In order to better understand how directly MAP3Kɛ1 and MAP3Kɛ2 might affect the plasma membrane, we analyzed the subcellular localization of MAP3Kɛ1. To accomplish this goal we constructed a binary vector encoding an N-terminal translational fusion between MAP3Kɛ1 and the YFP under the transcriptional control of the native MAP3Kɛ1 promoter. This construct was stably introduced into map3kɛ1/MAP3Kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2 plants via Agrobacterium transformation. Progeny from the primary transformants were screened by PCR to identify homozygous double-mutant plants. Using this strategy we were able to generate map3kɛ1/map3kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2 plants only when the lines also carried an ectopic copy of the YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 construct, indicating that the fusion protein was functional because of its ability to rescue the pollen-lethal phenotype. Thirty independent transgenic lines were screened for the presence of YFP fluorescence. Twenty five of the lines expressed the YFP fusion protein at a high enough level to be detected by fluorescence microscopy. Analysis of young seedlings revealed that YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 was most highly expressed in newly emerging leaves and near the root tip (data not shown). All 25 transgenic lines displayed a similar expression pattern. These observations are consistent with previous reports that MAP3Kɛ1 is most highly expressed in tissues containing dividing cells (Champion et al., 2004a,b; CITATION; CITATION). We attempted to visualize YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 in pollen, but were not able to reproducibly observe a fluorescent signal, which is likely to be due to the high level of autofluorescence displayed by the pollen cell wall. In order to determine the subcellular localization of MAP3Kɛ1, we used confocal microscopy to observe the cells of young leaves of Arabidopsis plants expressing YFP–MAP3Kɛ1. This tissue was chosen because it displayed the highest level of expression of YFP–MAP3Kɛ1. The confocal microscope settings used for these experiments resulted in no autofluorescence when the cells of untransformed wild-type plants were observed for YFP excitation/emission (data not shown). The merged confocal images collected from two representative young leaves expressing YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 are shown in Figure 6(a,b). A majority of the fluorescent signal present in these images is located at the periphery of the cell. A low level of fluorescence was seen in the cytoplasm, but none was detected in the nuclei. For comparison, a merged confocal image of a similar young leaf from a 35S:GFP control plant is shown in Figure 6(c). The fluorescent signal in the 35S:GFP plants is observed throughout the cytoplasm and nucleus. [[FIGURE]] Fluorescence associated with the cell perimeter could be due to YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 localization to the cell wall, the plasma membrane or both. To distinguish between these possibilities we performed plasmolysis experiments using plants expressing YFP–MAP3Kɛ1. The YFP fluorescent signal in these plants localized with the displaced membrane in plasmolysed cells, indicating that the peripheral localization of YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 corresponds to the plasma membrane rather than the cell wall (data not shown). The confocal microscopy results described above suggested that MAP3Kɛ1 may be associated with the plasma membrane. In order to further investigate this possibility, we performed a biochemical fractionation experiment to separate cellular proteins into cytosolic and membrane fractions. Preliminary experiments revealed that the MAP3Kɛ1 native promoter was not able to generate a level of protein expression that was high enough to be detectable in the fractionation assay. In order to overcome this problem we constructed an expression vector in which the YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 fusion construct was under the transcriptional control of an alcohol-inducible promoter and used this construct to generate transgenic Arabidopsis lines (CITATION). Using this ethanol-inducible system we were able to generate a level of YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 expression that was sufficient for detection in the fractionation assay. Three different Arabidopsis lines were used in the fractionation experiment: wild-type Columbia, a 35S:GFP control line and plants expressing the ethanol-inducible YFP–MAP3Kɛ1. Three days prior to protein extraction the ethanol-inducible YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 plants were watered with 1% ethanol to induce YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 expression. Tissue was harvested from leaf and inflorescence tissues of soil-grown plants, and protein extracts were separated into post-nuclear supernatant (S1), membrane-free cytosolic (S150) and cytosol-free microsomal membrane (P150) fractions by high-speed centrifugation. In order to verify the success of the fractionation, immunoblotting was performed with antibodies that recognize well-characterized cytosolic and membrane-associated proteins. An antibody against the plant UBX domain-containing (PUX) protein was used as the cytosolic marker (CITATION), and an antibody against syntaxin 31 (SYP31) was the membrane compartment marker (CITATION). These controls confirmed the identity and purity of each subcellular fraction (Figure 7c,d). [[FIGURE]] We next attempted to visualize YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 by immunoblotting with an anti-GFP antibody but were not able to detect this fusion protein by Western blot analysis. This difficultly could be related to the relatively large size of the MAP3Kɛ1 protein. We therefore chose to use an alternative method for quantifying the abundance of YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 in each of the protein fractions. For this analysis, a fluorescence plate reader was used to measure the amount of YFP or GFP fluorescence present in each sample. This approach is analogous to the well-established practice of using enzyme activities to follow specific proteins through biochemical fractionation experiments. In our case, the activity that we were measuring was YFP fluorescence rather than an enzymatic reaction. This activity is highly specific for the YFP and GFP proteins present in our samples, as demonstrated by the low level of background fluorescence detected in the wild-type Columbia controls. The optimum combination of excitation wavelength, emission wavelength and cutoff filter settings were used for YFP fluorescence in the YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 samples and GFP fluorescence in the 35S:GFP samples. In each case wild-type Columbia samples were also analyzed using the same parameters in order to determine the level of background fluorescence for each combination of filter settings. As shown in Figure 7(a,b), the 35S:GFP and YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 protein extracts produced fluorescent signals that were well above the background level observed in wild-type Columbia. The relative fluorescence units shown in these graphs are normalized to a buffer-only control. The data presented in Figure 7(a) indicate that the YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 protein is more abundant in the P150 membrane fraction than it is in the S150 cytosolic fraction. For comparison, Figure 7(b) presents the results obtained with protein extracted from the 35S:GFP plants. In this case the majority of the GFP protein was observed in the S150 cytosolic fraction. This result is consistent with the fact that GFP is a soluble protein that is known to be distributed throughout the cytoplasm and nucleus of plant cells. Taken together, these results indicate that a significant portion of the YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 protein present in Arabidopsis cells is associated with the membrane compartment. The fluorescence readings in Figure 7 were collected from samples that had been adjusted to contain equal amounts of total protein. The S1, S150 and P150 samples were all adjusted to 1 mg ml−1 of total protein prior to analysis using the plate reader. This normalization strategy explains why the amount of fluorescent signal observed in a subcellular fraction is higher than the amount of signal present in the corresponding S1 sample prior to fractionation.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis plants carrying T-DNA insertions within MAP3Kɛ1 (At3g13530; SALK_01724) and MAP3Kɛ2 (At3g07980; SALK_150512) were obtained from the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory (CITATION). The following PCR primers were used to genotype plants carrying these T-DNA insertions. MAP3Kɛ1-F: 5′-CACTCTGGACTATGGACGGGAAACTCAAG-3′; MAP3Kɛ1-R: 5′-ACCCAAGGACATTACAGGTTCAGTGGATG-3′; MAP3Kɛ2-F: 5′-TTATGACTTTTGAGCGCAGATGCTAGGAG-3′; MAP3Kɛ2-R: 5′-TCAGAAGCAGCACAAACTCCTGACAATTC-3′; T-DNA left border, 5′-CAAACTGGAACAACACTCAACCCTATCTC-3′. DNA sequencing of the genomic DNA flanking the T-DNA insertion sites confirmed the identity of each gene and the precise locations of the T-DNA insertions. All of the T-DNA mutants and wild-type plants in this study were from the Columbia ecotype Col-0. Ribonucleic acid was isolated from map3kɛ1/map3kɛ1 plants, map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2 plants and wild-type plants using the Qiagen Rneasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA). Real-time, quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using the QuantiTect SYBR Green RT-PCR Kit (Qiagen GmbH, Hilden, Germany), with H2A (histone H2A-like protein, At4g27320) as a control. Polymerase chain reaction primers specific to the predicted cDNA sequences of each gene were used for this analysis: ɛ1-RT-A1, 5′-AAAAACATTGTGAAGTATCTTGGGTCGTC-3′; ɛ1-RT-A2, 5′-GCTTCTTTACGAATTTCGCGAGAACGATC-3′; ɛ2-RT-A1, 5′-AAAACATTGTCAAGTATCTCGGATCGTTG-3′; ɛ2-RT-A2, 5′-TTCTCGTGATCGATCCCTCTCAAAACCAG-3′; H2A-1, 5′-AACAACTTGGATCTGGTGCAGCGAAGAAG-3′; and H2A-2, 5′-ACTATACGGGTCTTCTTGTTGTCTCTCGC-3′. Reactions were carried out on an iCycler iQTM real-time PCR detection system (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). The PCR primers 5′-CCGTGTTCACCACCAAAGACATTG-3′ and 5′-CTGACCACTTTTCCTCTATGCATC-3′ were used to amplify an 11 190-bp long fragment of genomic DNA that included the entire MAP3Kɛ1 coding region plus about 2 kb of upstream sequences and about 1.3 kb of downstream sequences. This PCR product was ligated into pCAMBIA3300S (CITATION), a spectinomycin-resistant derivative of pCAMBIA3300. The resulting binary vector containing the MAP3Kɛ1 gene was introduced into map3kɛ1/MAP3Kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2 plants using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (CITATION). Transformed plants were selected in soil in the next generation by spraying seedlings with the herbicide Basta. In order to create the YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 fusion construct, the wild-type MAP3Kɛ1 genomic clone described above was modified using site-directed mutagenesis in order to add two restriction sites immediately after the start codon. Recognitions sites for the enzymes AvrII and AgeI were introduced. The YFP coding sequence (CDS) was then PCR amplified from a plasmid vector using PCR primers that added a NheI site to the 5′ end of the CDS and an AgeI site to the 3′ end. This PCR-amplified fragment containing the YFP CDS was then ligated into the modified MAP3Kɛ1 clone using sticky ends generated by AvrII, AgeI and NheI cleavage. NheI sticky ends are identical to those produced by AvrII. The resulting construct contains the YFP CDS fused in frame to the 5′ end of the MAP3Kɛ1 coding region. The resulting plasmid was introduced into map3kɛ1/MAP3Kɛ1;map3kɛ2/map3kɛ2;qrt1-2/qrt1-2 plants using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation as described above. In order to construct the ethanol-inducible version of the YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 fusion protein, the YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 coding region described above was moved into the binary vector developed by CITATION that carries an ethanol-inducible promoter system and the vector was introduced into Arabidopsis plants via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. To monitor pollen viability, pollen was collected by squashing anthers containing mature pollen onto microscope slides. Alexander's staining solution (CITATION) was added and pollen grains were viewed with bright-field illumination. To visualize pollen nuclei, pollen was applied to a microscope slide, stained with 1 mm DAPI solution [1 μg ml−1 DAPI, 100 mm NaPO4, 1 mm EDTA and 0.1% (w/v) Triton], covered with a cover slip and viewed with a UV light. Whole developing anthers were removed from flower buds and immediately loaded into sample holders filled with 0.1 m sucrose. The samples were frozen in a Baltec HPM 010 high-pressure freezer (Technotrade, Manchester, NH, USA) and transferred into liquid nitrogen for storage. Substitution and sample embedding were performed as described in CITATION. Thin sections were cut with a Reichert Jung Ultracut model E microtome (Reichert Jung, Vienna, Austria) and images were collected using a Philips CM120 scanning transmission electron microscope (Philips, Eindhoven, the Netherlands). Live-cell imaging transgenic plants was performed on 3-day-old seedlings grown on 0.7% agarose (w/v) media containing 0.5 × Murashige and Skoog salt mixture or young leaves isolated from soil-grown plants. Confocal imaging was performed with a Zeiss Axiovert 100 m inverted microscope equipped with Bio-Rad MR1024 laser scanning. For higher magnification, a high numerical aperture (1.4) oil immersion objective (60 ×) was employed. A 488-nm or a 514-nm laser line from an argon ion laser was used to excite GFP and YFP, while the fluorescence emission was collected by a broad band-pass filter (480–550 nm). For neutral red staining, pollen grains were soaked in 0.1% neutral red for 30 min. To detect fluorescence, a 543-nm laser band was used for excitation, and emission was split by the use of a 500–570-nm filter to detect pollen cell wall autofluorescence (green channel) and a 590–640-nm filter to detect vacuole-specific, neutral red fluorescence (red channel) (CITATION). Soluble and membrane fractions were prepared from 4-week-old soil-grown Arabidopsis plants. Whole plants, not including root tissue, were ground with liquid nitrogen and suspended in modified MIB buffer [20 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.0; 50 mm potassium acetate; 1 mm magnesium acetate; 250 mm sorbitol; 1 mm DTT; 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride; 5 μg ml−1 protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma catalog no. 9599)]. A post-nuclear supernatant designated as S1 was prepared by centrifugation at 1000 g for 10 min at 4°C. Microsomal membranes were prepared by centrifugation of the S1 at 150 000 g in a TLA100.3 rotor (Beckman Coulter, Fullerton, CA, USA) for 30 min at 4°C. The supernatant (S150) was transferred to a new tube, and the pellet (P150) was resuspended in the modified MIB buffer described above using a glass dounce homogenizer (Kontes Glass Co., Vineland, NJ, USA). Aliquots were made of each fraction, snap frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80°C. The protein content of each fraction was determined using the Bio-Rad DC Protein Assay Kit and BSA as a standard. To verify the success of protein fractionation, S1, S150 and P150 fractions were analyzed by immunoblotting using PUX1 (CITATION) and SYP31 antibody (CITATION). Before immunoblotting, the membrane was analyzed by PonceauS staining to confirm protein recovery and equal loading. To induce YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 expression, plants were watered with 1% ethanol every 3 days. Leaf and inflorescence tissue from 4-week-old soil-grown wild-type plants, plants expressing 35S-GFP, and plants expressing ethanol-inducible YFP–MAP3Kɛ1 was collected, and protein samples were fractionated as described above to generate S1, S150 and P150 samples. The protein concentration of each sample following fractionation was adjusted to approximately 1.0 mg ml−1. Fifty microliters of each adjusted sample was then loaded into FluoroNuncTM/LumiNuncTM 96-well polystyrene plates (Nunc, Rochester, NY, USA), and the fluorescence of each fraction was detected by the SpectraMax Gemini (EM) microplate spectrofluorometer (Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale, CA, USA). For reading YFP fluorescence, the excitation wavelength was 510 nm, the emission wavelength was 560 nm, and the auto cutoff was 550 nm. For GFP fluorescence, the excitation wavelength was 490 nm, the emission wavelength was 510 nm and the auto cutoff was 495 nm. All readings were performed in triplicate.
