!~ABS~! The signal of the plant hormone cytokinin is perceived by membrane‐located sensor histidine kinases and transduced by other members of the plant two‐component system. In Arabidopsis thaliana, 28 two‐component system proteins (phosphotransmitters and response regulators) act downstream of three receptors, transmitting the signal from the membrane to the nucleus and modulating the cellular response. Although the principal signaling mechanism has been elucidated, redundancy in the system has made it difficult to understand which of the many components interact to control the downstream biological processes. Here, we present a large‐scale interaction study comprising most members of the Arabidopsis cytokinin signaling pathway. Using the yeast two‐hybrid system, we detected 42 new interactions, of which more than 90% were confirmed by in vitro coaffinity purification. There are distinct patterns of interaction between protein families, but only a few interactions between proteins of the same family. An interaction map of this signaling pathway shows the Arabidopsis histidine phosphotransfer proteins as hubs, which interact with members from all other protein families, mostly in a redundant fashion. Domain‐mapping experiments revealed the interaction domains of the proteins of this pathway. Analyses of Arabidopsis histidine phosphotransfer protein 5 mutant proteins showed that the presence of the canonical phospho‐accepting histidine residue is not required for the interactions. Interaction of A‐type response regulators with Arabidopsis histidine phosphotransfer proteins but not with B‐type response regulators suggests that their known activity in feedback regulation may be realized by interfering at the level of Arabidopsis histidine phosphotransfer protein‐mediated signaling. This study contributes to our understanding of the protein interactions of the cytokinin‐signaling system and provides a framework for further functional studies in planta. 
!~RES~! In order to study protein–protein interactions with the yeast two‐hybrid system, we were able to clone 24 cDNAs into either the pENTR or the pDONR vectors of the Gateway system. For all three cytokinin receptor histidine kinases, partial cDNAs encoding the C‐terminal cytoplasmic parts, according to predictions of the smart program, were used [CITATION]. Of the five AHP genes, we obtained the cDNA clones of four (AHP1, AHP2, AHP3, AHP5). Of the 23 response regulators, we were able to clone 15 (Table 1).  For the in vivo interaction studies in the yeast two‐hybrid system, all cloned cDNAs were shuttled via recombination into prey and bait vectors and tested for autoactivation (Table 1). Five clones, namely AHP1, AHP2, AHP3, ARR11 and ARR20, showed strong autoactivating activity and therefore could not be used as baits. However, all clones could be used in the prey configuration. Each protein pair was tested, where possible, in both configurations, leading to a total of 456 possible interactions investigated. Interactions were tested using two different reporter genes (HIS and URA), and growth was evaluated using several dilution steps to reduce the number of false positives. Each possible bait–prey combination was tested at least twice.  Using this approach, 68 interactions were detected. Of these, 42 are novel interactions, which had not been described before. The other 26 interactions have been previously described and were confirmed by our study (Table 1; supplementary Table S1). Of the 24 interactions that we could test in both configurations, 17 took place in both directions, whereas seven took place only in one direction. Most novel interactions were found with AHP5 (Fig. 1). We considered independent confirmation of interactions that were found by other yeast two‐hybrid vector–strain combinations or by phosphotransfer studies as complementary evidence and focused additional experiments on the novel interactions.  [[FIGURE]] Novel interactions, detected using the yeast two‐hybrid system, were further investigated by coaffinity purifications. One partner was expressed as a glutathione S‐transferase (GST) fusion protein, and the other partner was in vitro transcribed/translated in the presence of radioactively labeled methionine. Subsequently, both proteins were copurified via glutathione coupled to beads.  Of the 40 novel interactions tested with this method, 36 were verified in this biochemical assay (Fig. 2). Only four interactions that were detected in vivo could not be verified in vitro by this technique.  [[FIGURE]] Several interactions were detected between the cytokinin receptors. The cytoplasmic domains of AHK2 interacted with each other (Table 1). In contrast, the cytoplasmic domains of AHK3 and CRE1/AHK4, respectively, did not interact with themselves in our assay. However, AHK3 interacted with the cytoplasmic domains of both AHK2 and CRE1/AHK4 (Table 1). Receptor interaction indicates dimerization, which is a common feature of bacterial sensor histidine kinases [CITATION, CITATION]. The principal interaction motif is located in the N‐terminal part of the histidine kinase domain [CITATION, CITATION], which was included in our constructs.  Our data indicate that cytokinin receptors may dimerize in the absence of the ligand, as the cytoplasmic parts of the receptors were sufficient for interaction. In order to test for specificity of the detected interactions, we cloned the cDNAs encoding the cytoplasmic domains of two other receptor histidine kinases, AHK1 and ETR1, and included them in our interaction screen. No interaction of these domains with the cytokinin receptor kinases could be detected, indicating that interactions between these receptors may be specific (data not shown). However, more in planta analyses are required to support the functionality of receptor interactions.  Most interactions were found between the AHPs and other components of the TCS. All tested AHPs interacted with all three receptors and with almost all B‐type and A‐type ARRs, further supporting their proposed role as signaling hubs (Table 1).  In general, there were no interactions between ARRs of the different types, or within an ARR class. Some exceptions to this general rule were found among the B‐type ARRs. ARR14 interacted with itself, indicating the possibility of homodimer formation. Interactions were also detected with ARR2 and, unexpectedly, with the receptor AHK2 (Table 1).  Previously described interactions that we could not detect were between AHP1/AHP2 and ARR10 [CITATION]. Differences in sensitivity between different yeast two‐hybrid systems are not unusual and could be the reason for our inability to confirm these interactions. Another four published interactions (ARR1–AHP4; ARR2–AHP4; ARR11–AHP2; ARR22–AHP5; supplementary Table S1) could not be tested, as our set did not contain the corresponding clones (AHP4 and ARR22), or the fusion proteins were strong autoactivators in the bait configuration (AHP2 and ARR11). However, the fact that almost all of the known interactions that we could have detected with our matrix approach were found validates the system used in this study.  The protein–protein interaction domains of the TCS proteins were mapped by testing different truncated versions of representative proteins for each type of interaction (Fig. 3). The cytoplasmic part of the cytokinin receptor AHK2 was separated into four domains; the phospho‐accepting part of the histidine kinase (HisKA), the HATPase, a connecting stretch and the receiver domain. The HATPase domain alone or in combination with the HisKA domain was autoactivating in the bait configuration. Thus, these constructs could only be tested in the prey vector. The other truncation constructs were not autoactivating as baits, or the autoactivation could be suppressed by the addition of 5 mm 3‐amino‐1,2,4‐triazole (3AT) to the medium.  [[FIGURE]] In the case of the self‐interaction of the cytoplasmic domain of AHK2, the interaction is mediated via the HisKA and the HATPase domain together. Either domain alone was not sufficient for the interaction (Fig. 4A). No interaction could be detected via the C‐terminal half of the receptor. In the case of the interaction between AHP5 and AHK2, the complete cytoplasmic domain of the receptor was necessary for the interaction (Fig. 4A).  [[FIGURE]] The AHPs are rather small and contain only the Hpt domain. To test whether this domain can be divided further into subdomains, the protein was divided, so that both halves overlapped and contained the conserved Hpt core motif (XHQXKGSSXS) (Fig. 3). As an interaction hub of the TCS, AHPs interact with members of all other protein families in this signaling pathway. In all cases tested, the full‐length AHP5 was necessary for the interaction (Fig. 4B). In the case of the B‐type response regulator ARR14, the protein was divided into an N‐terminal part containing the response regulator domain and a C‐terminal fragment containing the Myb domain (Fig. 3). The Myb domain mediates the self‐interaction of ARR14 (Fig. 4C). This domain was also sufficient for the interaction of ARR14 and ARR2 (Fig. 4C). In contrast, the full‐length ARR14 was necessary for the interaction with AHP5 (Fig. 4C). As a representative of the A‐type ARRs, ARR4 was chosen, as it has a rather long C‐terminal extension after the response regulator domain. Also, in this case the whole protein was required for the interaction with an AHP (in our study AHP5) (Fig. 4D).  The cytokinin signal is transmitted by the TCS via a multistep phosphorelay. Therefore, it is conceivable that the phosphorylation status − particularly the phosphorylation status of the canonical aspartate and histidine residues participating in this phosphorelay − might influence the interaction between the different proteins of the TCS. As the phosphorylation status of the members of the Arabidopsis TCS in the yeast two‐hybrid system is not known, it is unclear whether the phosphorylation of those conserved residues is indeed a prerequisite for interaction or not. To test this further, we chose to investigate the interactions of AHP5 as a test case in more detail, as this protein showed the most interactions in our analysis (Table 1). Mutations were introduced into AHP5, converting the conserved, phospho‐accepting histidine into a lysine (H83K) or an alanine (H83A). These mutant proteins were tested for interactions in the yeast two‐hybrid system (Fig. 5).  [[FIGURE]] The interaction pattern of AHP5 was unchanged with most partner proteins in the yeast two‐hybrid assay (Fig. 5). Only two of the 15 tested interactions, namely with CRE1/AHK4 and ARR6, did not yield a positive result. For ARR6, this loss of interaction was dependent on whether the histidine was substituted by a lysine or an alanine (Fig. 5). To test these changed interaction properties independently, coaffinity purification experiments were done with the wild‐type as well as with the mutated versions of AHP5 (Fig. 6). The more stringent in vitro binding studies showed for both cases interaction between the original as well as the mutated forms of AHP5. In summary, the results of the yeast two‐hybrid and the in vitro coaffinity purification indicate that AHP5 can interact with other proteins of the TCS, regardless of the presence of the canonical histidine residue.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The cDNAs encoding the cytokinin signaling components were amplified either by PCR using a cDNA library from Arabidopsis thaliana C24 [CITATION] or by RT‐PCR using total RNA extract from A. thaliana Col‐0 primary leaves. Primers containing the Gateway™attB1 and attB2 sites or TOPO sites were used for recombination of isolated cDNAs into the Gateway™ Entry vectors pDONR201 and pDONR222 or pENTR/D‐TOPO (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). For the primer sequences, see supplementary Table S2. Deletion constructs of TCS signaling components were amplified by PCR using the cloned full‐length cDNAs in the Entry vectors. Primers containing attB1 and attB2 sites were used for recombination into pDONR222. For the primer sequences, see supplementary Table S3. The identities of all cloned cDNAs were verified by sequencing.  The yeast two‐hybrid analysis was done by using a LexA DNA‐binding domain encoding bait vector (pBTM116c‐D9) and a Gal4 activation domain encoding prey vector (pACT2; Clontech, Mountain View, CA, USA) adapted to the GatewayTM system (Invitrogen) in the yeast strain L40ccαU (MATa his3Δ200 trp1‐901 leu2‐3 112 LYS::(lexAop)4‐HIS3 URA3::(lexAop)8‐lacZ, ADE2::(lexAop)8‐URA3 GAL4 gal80 can1 cyh2) [CITATION]. The cDNAs were in vitro recombined from the Gateway™ Entry vectors into the bait and prey vectors according to the instructions of the manufacturer. Based on the lithium acetate method, yeast transformations were performed as previously described [CITATION]. Preselection of bait and prey hybrid proteins was done by testing for self‐activation on interaction medium by coexpression of the bait hybrid proteins with the Gal4 activation domain encoded by the empty prey vector and by coexpression of the prey hybrid proteins with the LexA DNA‐binding domain encoded by the empty bait vector. Weakly autoactivating hybrid proteins were totally suppressed by supplementing the interaction medium with 5 mm 3AT, whereas strong autoactivating hybrid proteins that could not be suppressed even in the presence of 20 mm 3AT were omitted from the matrix screen. All yeast clones were incubated for 7 days at 30 °C.  For protein expression and purification, cDNAs were in vitro recombined into the Gateway vector pDEST15 (Invitrogen) encoding an N‐terminal GST‐tag, and transformed into the E. coli strain BL21(DE)pLysS (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA). Expression of GST and GST fusion proteins was induced at 30 °C by 1 mm isopropyl thio‐β‐d‐galactoside for 3 h. Harvested cells were lysed with GST‐lysis buffer [20 mm sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.3, 150 mm NaCl, 1 mm EDTA, 0.2% Triton X‐100, 1 mm dithiothreitol, 1 mm phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride, 10 µg·mL−1 aprotonin, 10 µg·mL−1 leupeptin, 2 mm benzamidin] and ultrasound treatment. The supernatant of centrifuged samples was used for determining concentrations of GST and GST fusion proteins on SDS/PAGE by using BSA standards. In vitro interaction assays were performed by using the MagneGST™ pull‐down system (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) according to the instructions of the manufacturer. For this, 20 µL of magnetic glutathione agarose beads were pretreated according to the instructions of the manufacturer and incubated at room temperature for 30 min with 10% BSA. Equal amounts of GST and GST fusion proteins (200 ng) were purified on pretreated magnetic glutathione agarose beads in the presence of 0.5% Nonidet‐P40 and 10% BSA by incubation at room temperature for 30 min. The respective cDNAs were shuttled into the His‐tag containing Gateway™ vector pDEST17 (Invitrogen) and in vitro transcribed/translated in the presence of [35S]methionine. Five microliters out of 20 µL of immobilized GST and GST fusion proteins and in vitro synthesized radioactive protein were incubated at room temperature for 60 min and washed 10 times with 400 µL of washing buffer supplemented with 0.5% Nonidet‐P40. Eluted proteins were separated on SDS/PAGE, and the dried gel was used for autoradiography.  For site‐directed mutagenesis, the QuikChange Site Directed Mutagenesis Kit (Stratagene) was used according to the instructions of the manufacturer. Sequences of primers used for the mutagenesis of AHP5 in the entry vector were: H83K sense, 5′‐CAGGTGGATTCAGGTGTTAAGCAACTCAAGGGTAGTAGC‐3′; H83K antisense, 5′‐GCTACTACCCTTGAGTTGCTTAACACCTGAATCCACCTG‐3′; H83A sense, 5′‐CAGGTGGATTCAGGTGTTGCCCAACTCAAGGGTAGTAGC‐3′; H83A antisense, 5′‐GCTACTACCCTTGAGTTGGGCAACACCTGAATCCACCTG‐3′. Mutagenesis was verified by sequencing, and mutated AHP5 cDNA was in vitro recombined from the entry vector into the bait vector. 
