!~ABS~! A waxy cuticle that serves as a protective barrier against uncontrolled water loss and environmental damage coats the aerial surfaces of land plants. It is composed of a cutin polymer matrix and waxes. Cuticular waxes are complex mixtures of very-long-chain fatty acids and their derivatives. We report here the molecular cloning and characterization of CER4, a wax biosynthetic gene from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Arabidopsis cer4 mutants exhibit major decreases in stem primary alcohols and wax esters, and slightly elevated levels of aldehydes, alkanes, secondary alcohols, and ketones. This phenotype suggested that CER4 encoded an alcohol-forming fatty acyl-coenzyme A reductase (FAR). We identified eight FAR-like genes in Arabidopsis that are highly related to an alcohol-forming FAR expressed in seeds of jojoba (Simmondsia chinensis). Molecular characterization of CER4 alleles and genomic complementation revealed that one of these eight genes, At4g33790, encoded the FAR required for cuticular wax production. Expression of CER4 cDNA in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) resulted in the accumulation of C24:0 and C26:0 primary alcohols. Fully functional green fluorescent protein-tagged CER4 protein was localized to the endoplasmic reticulum in yeast cells by confocal microscopy. Analysis of gene expression by reverse transcription-PCR indicated that CER4 was expressed in leaves, stems, flowers, siliques, and roots. Expression of a β-glucuronidase reporter gene driven by the CER4 promoter in transgenic plants was detected in epidermal cells of leaves and stems, consistent with a dedicated role for CER4 in cuticular wax biosynthesis. CER4 was also expressed in all cell types in the elongation zone of young roots. These data indicate that CER4 is an alcohol-forming FAR that has specificity for very-long-chain fatty acids and is responsible for the synthesis of primary alcohols in the epidermal cells of aerial tissues and in roots.
!~RES~! A query of the Arabidopsis genome database with the deduced amino acid sequence of the jojoba FAR using BLAST search programs revealed a group of eight sequences in the Arabidopsis genome that were highly related to the jojoba FAR (28%–54% amino acid sequence identity) over their entire length (Fig. 1 ). One of these sequences is MS2 (At3g11980), the gene that encodes a tapetum-specific protein essential for pollen fertility (CITATION), but the functions of the other seven FAR-like genes in Arabidopsis have not been investigated. To determine whether any of these genes corresponded to CER4 involved in the formation of primary alcohols in the cuticle, we correlated the positions of identified FAR-like sequences with the position of the cer4 mutation on the Arabidopsis genetic map. Only one of the putative FARs, At4g33790, matched the genetic map position of CER4 on chromosome 4 at 60.9 cM (CITATION) and was thus considered a candidate for being CER4. [[FIGURE]] Sequencing of the At4g33790 genomic clone revealed an error in the deposited genomic sequence (GenBank accession no. NC_003075) through comparisons to deposited full-length cDNA sequences (GenBank accession nos. AY057657 and AY070065; CITATION). This error was an extra nucleotide causing a frame shift in the predicted coding sequence. The corrected At4g33790 gene consists of 10 exons (Fig. 2A ) and the entire exon-intron region is 3,567 bp in length. The full-length cDNA sequence contains an open reading frame of 1,482 bp encoding a 493-amino acid protein. PCR amplification of the At4g33790 gene in the cer4-1 mutant indicated the presence of a deletion and/or rearrangement of at least 3,350 bp spanning 500 bp of the promoter region, the 5′-untranslated region, and at least 2,800 bp downstream of the translation start. A T-DNA insertion is present in the fourth intron of At4g33790 (at nucleotide 1,960 relative to the start codon) in the cer4-2 mutant. The finding that two independently isolated mutant lines with the same glossy stem wax phenotype both had changes in the same gene indicated that CER4 is indeed encoded by At4g33790. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the identity of the CER4 gene, we also obtained two SALK T-DNA insertion lines, SALK_038693 (cer4-3) and SALK_000575 (cer4-4), containing T-DNA insertions in the fifth exon (nucleotide 2,225) and fourth intron (nucleotide 1,755), respectively, of the At4g33790 gene from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC). Homozygotes of cer4-3 and cer4-4 exhibited glossy stem phenotypes similar to the previously characterized cer4-1 and cer4-2 lines. Finally, the extent of cer4 gene disruption was examined by semiquantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR. Very low levels of CER4 mRNA were detected in the cer4-2, cer4-3, and cer4-4 lines, whereas no transcript was found in cer4-1 (Fig. 2B). Taken together, these results demonstrate that CER4 is identical to the FAR-like gene At4g33790. The total wax loads on stems of all three wild-type lines of Arabidopsis were found to be very similar under the growth conditions used here, ranging from 20 μg/cm2 for Ws to 23 μg/cm2 for Ler and Columbia-0 (Col-0; Table I ). The total wax coverage on inflorescence stems of the four mutant lines did not differ from respective wild types. Furthermore, both the absolute amounts and the relative proportions of the fatty acids, aldehydes, alkanes, secondary alcohols, and ketones did not differ between the wax mixtures of the wild-type lines and between the cer4 lines and the corresponding wild types (Table I; Fig. 3 ). The only compound classes affected by CER4 mutations were the primary alcohols and the alkyl esters, reduced from wild-type levels of 2 to 3 μg/cm2 and 1 to 4 μg/cm2, respectively, to only trace amounts in the mutant lines (Tables I and II ). Composition of cuticular waxes on inflorescence stems of various Arabidopsis cer4 mutant lines and corresponding wild types Mean values (μg/cm2) of total wax loads and coverage of individual compound classes are given with sds (n = 4). [[FIGURE]] Chain length distribution of wax esters and of alkyl groups constituting these esters Relative compositions (%) are given for all four cer4 mutant lines and Col-0 wild type based on single analyses that were in all cases confirmed in a second entirely independent experiment. A close examination of the chain length patterns within compound classes revealed that most of the individual wax compounds were unchanged in cer4-1. The most drastic effect was found for the C24, C26, and C28 primary alcohols, all three compounds being reduced to trace amounts in the stem wax of all four mutant lines. In contrast, C30 primary alcohol still accumulated in the cer4-1 cuticle, reaching approximately 16% of wild-type levels (Fig. 3). Similar chain length patterns were found for the primary alcohols in cer4-2 and cer4-3, whereas cer4-4 showed a drastic reduction of C24 and C26 alcohols, and partially reduced amounts of C28 and C30 alcohols (data not shown). The alkyl esters of the wild-type lines showed chain lengths ranging from C38 to C54, with a strong predominance of even-numbered homologs and a maximum for C44 (Table II). In contrast to this, the mutant lines cer4-1, cer4-2, and cer4-3 had largely reduced levels of even-numbered esters, but not of odd-numbered compounds. The remaining even-numbered esters showed a bimodal distribution with maxima at C46 and at C50 to C54. The ester fraction was dominated by the C45 ester, which, according to mass spectrometry (MS) data, consisted mainly of C16:0 acid esterified with a C29 alcohol. Because this is the predominant chain length of the secondary alcohols in Arabidopsis stem wax, it seems very likely that this residual ester contains the secondary alcohols nonacosan-14-ol and -15-ol. These alcohols were not further analyzed in the cer4 mutant esters because secondary alcohols are formed on the decarbonylation pathway without involvement of FAR enzymes and the acyl reduction pathway. The even-numbered alkyl moieties of all the esters were quantified using MS data and summarized according to the alcohol chain lengths present. Whereas Col-0 wild-type esters were dominated by C26 alkyl chains, the mutant lines cer4-1, cer4-2, and cer4-3 were characterized by drastically decreased amounts of this alcohol. Instead, they had notably increased levels of C22 and C30 alcohols in their stem wax esters, together with varying levels of C24 and C28 alcohols. The wax of cer4-4 showed an ester composition intermediate between wild-type and the other three mutant lines. Even though the total stem wax loads of the cer4 plants were similar to wild-type plants, the stems of all four mutant lines appeared glossy. This indicated that the epicuticular wax crystals on the cer4 stems were affected by the mutations. Because these crystals had not been reported for cer4 plants before, we examined the density and shape of wax crystals on stems of cer4-1 plants by scanning electron microscopy (SEM; Fig. 4 ). A dense array of epicuticular wax crystals consisting of vertical rods, tubes, longitudinal bundles of rodlets, and horizontal, reticulate platelets cover the stem surfaces of wild-type Arabidopsis (Fig. 4, A and B). Conversely, the stem surfaces of cer4-1 plants are almost devoid of wax crystals and instead have a thick film of wax with a relatively smooth surface (Fig. 4, C and D), accounting for the change in surface light reflectance. [[FIGURE]] Both the wax chemical and the surface micromorphological phenotypes could be rescued by complementation with the At4g33790 genomic sequence (Fig. 3; Table I), providing further evidence that we have identified the CER4 gene. To verify that CER4 is an alcohol-forming FAR involved in the production of very-long-chain primary alcohols, we expressed the 1,482-bp coding region of the CER4 gene in Saccharomyces under the control of the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) GAL1 promoter. Under inducing conditions, cells transformed with an empty-vector control accumulated C16:0, C16:1, C18:0, C18:1, and C26:0 fatty acids, but no fatty alcohols could be detected (Fig. 5A ). Conversely, yeast cells expressing CER4 produced two novel compounds. They were identified as primary alcohols C24:0-OH and C26:0-OH (Fig. 5B), based on their gas chromatography (GC) behavior and MS characteristics. The CER4-expressing cells also consistently accumulated greater levels of C26:0 fatty acid compared to the control yeast. No primary alcohols derived from saturated and monounsaturated C16 and C18 fatty acids could be detected. [[FIGURE]] The subcellular localization of the CER4 FAR was carried out in yeast expressing CER4 cDNA N-terminally tagged with green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the GAL1 promoter. The fusion of the GFP epitope to the CER4 protein did not affect the FAR activity of the modified enzyme in yeast (data not shown) and allowed us to visualize it by confocal microscopy. This experiment revealed a fluorescence pattern typical of the yeast ER (Fig. 6A , arrow). Counterstaining of yeast cells with hexyl rhodamine B, a dye that can stain the ER, outlined the same cellular domains (Fig. 6, C–E), confirming that CER4 resides in the ER in yeast. [[FIGURE]] The CER4 transcript encodes a polypeptide of 493 amino acids with an estimated molecular mass of 56.0 kD. The predicted CER4 protein sequence is 54% identical with the NADPH-dependent membrane-associated alcohol-forming FAR from jojoba embryos (CITATION) and is identical in length (Fig. 7 ). CER4 exhibits extensive sequence similarities to Arabidopsis MS2 (36% amino acid identity) and the other six members of the Arabidopsis FAR family (31%–49% amino acid identity; Supplemental Fig. S1). The coding sequences for the uncharacterized Arabidopsis FARs were obtained from annotated gene databases and then, when necessary, manually reannotated to obtain the more likely coding sequences and deduced polypeptide sequences. Five of the Arabidopsis FARs are similar in size to CER4, ranging from 482 to 496 residues in length. At3g56700 and MS2 (At3g11980) have amino-terminal extensions of unknown function and are 548 and 616 residues in length, respectively. CER4 is the Arabidopsis FAR most closely related to the biochemically characterized jojoba FAR (Fig. 1). CER4 is also highly related to the wheat (Triticum aestivum) anther-specific protein TAA1a (42% amino acid identity) that has been shown to synthesize primary fatty alcohols thought to be important for pollen formation and function (CITATION; Fig. 7). In addition, CER4 shows short regions of amino acid identity to the functionally assessed pheromone gland FAR from silkmoth (CITATION) and two mouse enzymes, FAR1 and FAR2 (CITATION; Fig. 7). [[FIGURE]] The jojoba FAR is thought to be an integral membrane protein containing two membrane-spanning domains between residues 309 to 329 and between residues 378 to 398. CER4 has a similar number of hydrophobic residues in these two predicted segments (Fig. 7). However, hydropathy plots and other sequence analysis programs do not reveal strong transmembrane domains anywhere in the CER4 protein sequence. It thus remains uncertain whether these segments are true transmembrane regions in the FAR enzymes. The deduced CER4 amino acid sequence also lacks the typical NAD(P)H binding motif or Rossmann fold: GXGXX(G/A) (CITATION). CITATION speculated that MS2 binds NAD(P)H through a related nucleotide-binding sequence (I/V/F)X(I/L/V)TGXTGFL(G/A) and CER4 contains this motif between residues 19 and 29 (Fig. 7). Semiquantitative RT-PCR was used to investigate the transcription profile of the CER4 gene in various whole tissues (Fig. 8 ). Aerial tissue samples were derived from 6-week-old Arabidopsis plants and the root tissue sample from 14-d-old seedlings. CER4 was expressed in all tissues, but to varying levels. Highest transcript accumulation was detected in open flowers and roots. Modest transcript levels were observed in stems, closed flowers, and siliques; low, but consistently detectable, CER4 transcripts were observed in rosette and cauline leaves. [[FIGURE]] To analyze the cell-type expression pattern of CER4 in detail, the 2.1 kb of genomic sequence immediately upstream of the CER4 coding region was fused to the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene (CER4pro:GUS) and the construct was used to transform Arabidopsis. Tissue samples from 20 independent transgenic lines were stained for GUS activity, with four of these lines being characterized in detail. Consistent with RT-PCR analysis, reporter gene expression was observed in both shoots and roots (Fig. 9 ). In the stem, CER4 was expressed along the entire length exclusively in the epidermal cells (Fig. 9, A and B). We confirmed the epidermis-specific expression of CER4 in the inflorescence by in situ hybridization (Fig. 9C) and observed that CER4 expression was confined to the region below the shoot apical and floral meristems. [[FIGURE]] In rosette leaves, CER4pro:GUS was strongly expressed in the trichomes, which are specialized epidermal cells (Fig. 9E). This very restricted expression pattern in leaves may explain the low levels of the CER4 transcript present in whole-leaf tissues because the transcript would be diluted by the surrounding pavement cells and underlying mesophyll cells. Expression of CER4 in cauline leaves was more widespread, being detected in trichomes, pavement cells, and the vasculature, and was especially high at the base of the leaf (Fig. 9D). However, this was not reflected by higher levels of total expression detected by RT-PCR using whole-tissue samples from cauline leaves (Fig. 8). In flowers, CER4pro-directed GUS activity was detected in the petals, the filaments of the stamens, and the carpel (Fig. 9F). In situ hybridization of the CER4 transcript verified the expression in the carpel and showed that this expression was epidermis specific (Fig. 9G). In siliques, CER4pro:GUS activity was present throughout the outer layer of the silique, but no activity was observed in the seeds (Fig. 9H). Unexpectedly, we also detected CER4 expression in the central and lateral roots of 14-d-old seedlings (Fig. 9I), but not in the root tip (Fig. 9J). CER4 expression was strongest in the elongation zone behind the root tip and appeared to diminish in the older sections of the differentiation zone (Fig. 9I). In the elongation zone, GUS activity was detected in all cell types (Fig. 9K), although GUS staining appeared more pronounced in the epidermal cells compared to interior cell types.
!~MM~! SALK T-DNA insertional lines, SALK_038693 and SALK_000575 (Col-0 ecotype), and cer4-1 (Ler ecotype) mutant seeds were obtained from the ABRC (www.arabidopsis.org). cer4-2 (Ws ecotype) was a gift from Dr. Bertrand Lemieux (York University). Seeds were stratified for 3 to 4 d at 4°C, and were then germinated on AT-agar plates (CITATION) at 20°C under continuous light (100 μE m−2 s−1 of photosynthetically active radiation). Ten-day-old seedlings were transplanted to soil (Sunshine Mix 5; SunGro) and grown at 22°C under long-day conditions (16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle). Wax load was determined on 6-week-old Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants. Stems, leaves, and siliques were immersed in chloroform for 30 s to remove epi- and intracuticular waxes. After extraction, wax samples were evaporated to dryness under a stream of nitrogen, dissolved in 50 μL of N,O-bis(trimethylsilyl) trifluoroacetamide (BSTFA) with 1% trimethylchlorosilane (TMCS; Pierce), and derivatized at 80°C for 90 min. Samples were then analyzed by gas-liquid chromatography as described in CITATION. Quantification of compounds was based on flame ionization detector peak areas, which were converted to mass units by comparison with an internal standard, 17:1 methylester, which was added to each sample tube prior to extraction. For wax ester analyses, stem cuticular wax mixtures of Arabidopsis wild-type and cer4 mutant lines were separated by thin-layer chromatography on silica gel using 1,1,1-trichloroethane as the mobile phase. Compound classes were localized by staining with primuline and UV light, removed from the plates, eluted with CHCl3, filtered, concentrated in a stream of N2, and stored at 4°C. The fraction containing alkyl esters (Rf 0.13) was subjected to detailed GC analyses. A GC-flame ionization detector was employed to quantify the relative amounts of ester homologs, whereas GC-MS was used to determine the isomer composition for each ester chain length based on acyl fragments RCOOH2+. Segments from the apical 1 cm of the stem were mounted onto SEM stubs, allowed to dry, and then coated with gold particles in a SEMPrep2 sputter coater (Nanotech). The coated samples were viewed with a Hitachi S4700 field emission SEM using an accelerating voltage of 1 kV and a working distance of 12 mm. Protein sequences were aligned with the ClustalW 1.83 program (CITATION) using default parameters (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/clustalw). Pretty printing of the alignments was done using BOXSHADE 3.21 (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/BOX_form.html). For construction of the phylogenetic tree, the proteins were first aligned with the ClustalX 1.83 program using the BLOSUM series matrix and default parameters (http://bips.u-strasbg.fr/fr/Documentation/ClustalX). The phylogenetic tree was generated by the neighbor-joining method using the njplot program available with the ClustalX 1.83 program. A 6,138-bp DNA fragment containing the coding region of At4g33790 was amplified by PCR from genomic DNA isolated from wild-type Ler plants. This fragment contained 2,160 bp of sequence 5′ of the ATG start codon and 438 bp of sequence 3′ of the stop codon. The primers used for amplification were At4g33790-PromEcoRI (5′-GAGGAATTCTTTCCTTGTAGCCGCCTTTA-3′) and At4g33790-TermXbaI (5′-GAGTCTAGAAACTTTACATGGGGGCAATG-3′). To minimize PCR-induced errors, amplification was carried out using the Expand high-fidelity PCR system (Roche Diagnostics). The amplified DNA fragment was digested with EcoRI and XbaI and cloned into the corresponding sites of pRD400 (CITATION). The resulting pRD400/At4g33790 construct was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101(pMP90) by electroporation. Transformation of cer4-1 Arabidopsis plants was performed using the floral-dip method (CITATION) and transformants were selected on AT-agar plates containing 30 μg mL−1 kanamycin (w/v). We first isolated full-length CER4 cDNA for expression in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). Total RNA was extracted from wild-type Col-0 plants using TRIzol Reagent (Invitrogen) according to manufacturer's protocol. First-strand cDNA synthesis was carried out using 1 μg of total RNA, oligo(dT)18, and SuperScript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen). To amplify CER4 cDNA, PCR was performed using the Expand high-fidelity PCR system (Roche) with 1 μL of cDNA. Primers used for amplification were CER4-F5BamHI (5′-GAGGGATCCATGTCGACAGAAATGGAGGTC-3′) and CER4-R7SacI (5′-CACGAGCTCTTAGAAGACATACTTAAGCAGC-3′). The amplified DNA fragment was digested with BamHI and SacI and cloned into the corresponding sites of pBluescript II SK+ to generate pBS/CER4. Sequencing of an individual clone confirmed that there were no errors in the CER4 cDNA. pBS/CER4 was digested with EcoRI and Ecl136II and cloned between the EcoRI and EcoRV restriction sites of the yeast expression vector p423-GAL1 (CITATION) to yield p423-GAL1/CER4. p423-GAL1/CER4 and an empty-vector p423-GAL1 (control) were transformed into yeast strain W3031A (MATa ade2-1 his3-11,15 leu2-3,112 trp1-1 ura3-1 can1-100) according to CITATION and grown on minimal medium agar plates lacking His. Individual yeast transformants were then transferred to selective medium agar plates containing 2% (w/v) Gal to induce expression of CER4. These plates were incubated at 30°C for 6 d prior to extraction of lipids. For extraction of total lipids, yeast cells were scraped from plates into 1 mL of methanol. After 5 min, 2 mL of chloroform was added and the mixture vortexed. After another 5 min, 0.75 mL of 0.9% (w/v) NaCl was added. Following phase separation, the chloroform phase was transferred to a fresh tube. The samples were evaporated to dryness under a stream of nitrogen and then derivatized with BSTFA plus 1% TMCS and analyzed by gas-liquid chromatography as described above for plant wax analysis. To generate GFP fused in frame with the coding region of CER4, pBS/CER4 was digested with BamHI and SacI and subcloned into the corresponding sites of the binary vector pVKH18-GFPN (CITATION), resulting in pVKH18-GFP-CER4. For expression of GFP-CER4 in yeast, the coding region of GFP-CER4 in pVKH18-GFP-CER4 was released as a XbaI-Ecl136II fragment and then subcloned between SpeI and EcoRV of the yeast expression vector p423-GAL1 (CITATION), yielding p423-GAL1:GFP-CER4. This plasmid was transformed in yeast strain W3031A and GFP-CER4 expression induced as described above for CER4 alone. For subcellular localization, GFP and hexyl rhodamine B fluorescence were examined by confocal microscopy as described by CITATION. The yeast cells were immersed in hexyl rhodamine B solution (1.6 μm) for 30 min prior to analysis. Aerial tissues used for RNA extractions were harvested from 6-week-old Arabidopsis plants. Whole-root tissue was harvested from 14-d-old seedlings grown on AT-agar plates under continuous light conditions. With the exception of silique tissue, total RNA was extracted using a guanidine-HCl and phenol-chloroform extraction procedure (CITATION). RNA was isolated from siliques using an acid phenol-LiCl extraction procedure (CITATION), with the addition of 3 m sodium acetate, pH 5.2, wash at the end to remove excess polysaccharides. For analysis of the transcription profile of CER4 by RT-PCR, RNA was reverse transcribed using 1 μg of total RNA template, oligo(dT)18, and SuperScript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen). One microliter of a 1:1 diluted RT reaction was used as template in a 20-μL reaction with gene-specific primers CER4-F5BamHI (above) and CER4-R3EcoRI (5′-CACGAATTCCCCTCAGTCCAACCAGGAAA-3′) designed to amplify a 851-bp cDNA fragment of CER4. To examine the extent of gene disruption in each of four cer4 alleles, gene-specific primers TSH450 (5′-CTTCTTCTGTGATCTTGATGC-3′) and TSH451 (5′-TAGAAGACATACTTAAGCAGCC-3′) that can amplify a 578-bp cDNA fragment of CER4 were used. The glyceraldehyde-3-P dehydrogenase (GAPC) constitutive control was amplified using primers GAPC-p1 (5′-TCAGACTCGAGAAAGCTGCTAC-3′) and GAPC-p2 (5′-GATCAAGTCGACCACACGG-3′), which amplifies a 245-bp cDNA fragment. A DNA fragment containing 2,147 bp of sequence immediately upstream of the ATG start codon of CER4 was amplified by PCR from Arabidopsis bacterial artificial chromosome T16L1 (AL031394) using the Expand high-fidelity system (Roche Diagnostics). The primers used for amplification were CER4-PROMSalIfor (5′-GAGGTCGACTTTCCTTGTAGCCGCCTTTA-3′) and CER4-PROMXbaIrev (5′-GAGTCTAGAGTATATACGTTTGAGTGAGAGA-3′). The amplified product was digested with SalI and XbaI and cloned between the corresponding sites of pBluescript II SK+ to generate pBS/CER4pro. Sequencing of an individual clone confirmed that there were no errors in the CER4 promoter. pBS/CER4pro was digested with SalI and XbaI and cloned between the corresponding sites of pBI101 (CLONTECH) to generate a transcriptional fusion of the CER4 promoter with the GUS reporter gene. This construct was introduced into wild-type Col-0 plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation as described above. GUS staining solution was composed of 50 mm sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, 0.5 mm potassium ferricyanide, 0.5 mm potassium ferrocyanide, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100, and 0.5 mg/mL 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide (X-Gluc). Aerial tissues were preincubated in heptane for 5 min to remove the cuticle and then vacuum infiltrated with GUS staining solution. Tissues were incubated in GUS staining solution at 37°C for 1 h (root tissue) or 6 h (aerial tissues). For whole tissues, samples were cleared in 70% (v/v) ethanol following staining and visualized using a dissecting light microscope. For tissue sectioning, GUS-stained tissues were first rinsed for 2 min in 100 mm sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, and then fixed in 2.5% glutaraldehyde in the same phosphate buffer for 12 h at 4°C. Following fixation, samples were rinsed for 2 min in phosphate buffer and dehydrated in 30%, 50%, 70%, 80%, 90%, and three changes of 100% ethanol for 10 min at each concentration. Dehydrated samples were then slowly infiltrated with Spurr's resin. The Spurr's resin was allowed to polymerize for 8 h at 70°C. Ten-micrometer-thick sections from the embedded tissue were cut on a Reichert Om U3 (Reichert-Jung) ultramicrotome and visualized using a light microscope. In situ hybridization of Arabidopsis inflorescences (tissue fixation, sectioning, hybridization, signal detection, and probe synthesis) was carried out as described previously (CITATION). To synthesize probes, 1,461-bp DNA templates were amplified by PCR from CER4 cDNA using primers incorporating the T7 RNA polymerase-binding site. For the antisense probe, the primers used were 5′-CGACAGAAATGGAGGTCGTT-3′ and 5′-GATAATACGACTCACTATAGGGCAGCCCAATAACATGTGTG-3′. Sections were photographed using bright-field optics. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Sequence alignment of alcohol-forming FARs from Arabidopsis.
