!~ABS~!  By screening genome databases, 12 genes encoding membrane proteins homologous to nucleobase–ascorbate transporters (NATs) were identified in Arabidopsis thaliana . A similar number of genes was found in the rice genome. The plant NAT proteins split into five clades (I–V) based on protein multisequence alignments. This classification nicely correlates with the patterns of organ- and tissue-specific expression during the whole life cycle of A. thaliana . Interestingly, expression of two members of clade III, AtNAT7 and AtNAT8, was found to be up-regulated in undifferentiated tissues such as callus or tumors produced by Agrobacterium tumefaciens . Clade V comprises AtNAT12 possessing a hydrophilic N-terminal extension. Transient expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions in different systems showed that AtNAT12 along with AtNAT7 and -8 are located in the plasma membrane. Mutations in any of the AtNAT genes do not induce phenotypic alterations. The absence of obvious mutant phenotypes in single but also in double and triple mutants suggests a high degree of functional redundancy between AtNAT genes, but might also point to redundant functions provided by genes or pathways unrelated to the AtNATs . 
!~RES~!  The completed A. thaliana genome sequencing project opened the way for the analysis of gene families and their functional characterization (Arabidopsis Genome Initiative CITATION ). To identify plant NAT proteins, the amino acid sequence of the rat vitamin C transporter 1 (RnNAT1; SVCT1; AF080453) was used to conduct BLAST searches against the A. thaliana genome sequence. A total of 12 genes encoding putative NAT proteins were found in the A. thaliana genome ( AtNAT1–12 ; Table 1 and Fig. 1 ). The rice genome also contains a NAT family comprising 11 genes ( OsNAT1 – 11 ; Yu et al. CITATION , http://tigrblast.tigr.org/ ). These genes are highly similar to AtNATs ( Fig. 1 ). In addition, the NCBI database contains one cDNA from maize (AAB17501), one from Mesembryanthemum crystallinum (AF069322), one from cotton (AAT64019) and one from tomato (AAX73299) encoding NAT proteins. cDNAs encoded by the predicted AtNATs genes were isolated either by screening a cDNA library from A. thaliana or by reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) using total RNA from A. thaliana seedlings as template. The AtNAT11 and AtNAT12 sequences differ from the predicted ones, and the corrected sequences were deposited in GenBank under the accession numbers AY444864 and AY444865, respectively.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  A multiple sequence alignment was conducted with NAT protein sequences from plants, animals and fungi, and used for the construction of a phylogenetic tree ( Fig. 1 ). The plant NAT proteins can be found in five different clades of the phylogenetic tree (I–V) with A. thaliana NATs present in four of them. All A. thaliana NAT proteins share 35–92% identical amino acid residues with each other and with NAT proteins from other plants. The similarity of the plant NAT proteins to the vitamin C transporter from mammals and to the nucleobase transporters from A. nidulans is about 30–35% and <20%, respectively (Diallinas et al. CITATION , Tsukaguchi et al. CITATION ). Sequence alignments of NAT proteins clearly reveal five regions of high similarity and, in addition, several residues that are absolutely or highly conserved, including the so-called ‘NAT signature motif’ (Q/E/P)NXGXXXXT(R/K/G). This motif is present in a domain critical for substrate recognition in Aspergillus UapA and UapC purine transporters (Diallinas et al. CITATION . Koukaki et al. CITATION ). AtNAT11, AtNAT12, OsNAT10 and OsNAT11 differ from the other NATs in having a histidine residue instead of the conserved glycine at position 4 of this motif and also two insertions of 18 and 15 amino acid residues in the hydrophilic loops between membrane-spanning helices VII and VIII, and XII and XIII, respectively.   In summary, AtNAT proteins share similarities with both ascorbate transporters from mammals and nucleobase transporters from fungi that transport either nucleobases or ascorbate but not both substrates (de Koning and Diallinas CITATION , Wilson CITATION ). Unfortunately, it is not possible at the moment to distinguish between ascorbate- and nucleobase-transporting NATs on the basis of their overall sequence similarities or of specific sequence motifs. So far, only a nucleobase transporter from maize, ZmLpe1, has been characterized as a transporter specific for xanthine and uric acid (Argyrou et al. CITATION ). Interestingly, ZmLpe1 clusters together with a rice NAT (OsNAT9) but not with any NATs from A. thaliana ( Fig. 1 ), suggesting that the substrates of the AtNATs could be different.   The NATs are highly hydrophobic proteins. The number of putative membrane-spanning domains was calculated using nine different algorithms (Schwacke et al. CITATION , http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de/ ). Because the number of predicted membrane-spanning helices of a particular protein differs significantly between the individual programs, the statistical median was calculated for each protein (Schwacke et al. CITATION ). The AtNAT proteins are predicted to possess 13 membrane-spanning helices.   Sequence alignments of NAT proteins revealed that AtNAT12 (present in clade V) possesses a highly hydrophilic N-terminal extension of about 120–130 amino acid residues that could serve as an organellar targeting sequence. Indeed, AtNAT12 along with OsNAT10 and OsNAT11 are assumed to be plastid localized according to several prediction programs ( http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de/ , Schwacke et al. CITATION ). The other NAT proteins obviously do not possess any targeting signals.   To obtain experimental evidence for targeting of AtNAT12 protein to a particular subcellular compartment, AtNAT12–GFP (green fluorescent protein) translational fusions were generated and transiently expressed in A. thaliana cells by Agrobacterium -mediated transformation and in onion epidermal cells by biolistic transformation. Using both methods, fluorescence from AtNAT12–GFP fusion was found in the peripheral region of the cells ( Fig. 2 A, B), while the product from a fusion using only the hydrophilic N-terminal extension was localized in the cytosol (not shown). In order to differentiate between cell wall, plasma membrane and tonoplast, AtNAT12–GFP -transformed cells were treated with 0.5 M NaCl, which induces plasmolysis. As a result, the plasma membrane is internalized along with all cellular organelles, the vacuole collapses undergoing folding, while the cell wall remains unchanged (Reisen et al., CITATION ). Fig. 2 C illustrates fluorescence and bright field images of plasmolysed onion cells, showing AtNAT12–GFP fluorescence. These results indicate that AtNAT12 is localized to the plasma membrane rather than to plastids. The same localization was found for AtNAT7 and -8, two proteins constituting a subclade of clade III ( Fig. 2 D, E).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  The tissue-specific expression of AtNAT genes was first studied by RT–PCR using cDNAs from leaves, stems, flowers and roots of soil-grown 6-week-old A. thaliana plants. Four different patterns of expression were obtained ( Fig. 3 ). AtNAT1 , - 3 , - 6 , - 11 and - 12 showed almost the same level of RNA accumulation in all tissues examined. Expression in all tissues with a lower level in leaves was observed for AtNAT2 , - 4 and - 5 . AtNAT7 and - 8 are predominantly expressed in flowers. For AtNAT9 and - 10 , no expression could be detected in any of the tested tissues. It should be noted that RT–PCR analyses were performed using 30 and 35 cycles to illustrate better the differences in the level of expression in the different organs tested.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  For a detailed analysis of organ- and tissue-specific expression profiles of the AtNAT genes at different growth stages, transgenic A. thaliana plants were generated expressing the GUS reporter gene driven by the individual AtNAT promoters. In all cases, a promoter region of approximately 1.6 kb, the first exon and intron, and part of the second exon were amplified. The histochemical analysis of GUS activity during the first 2 weeks of growth was performed with seedlings grown on plates, while adult tissues were analyzed after transferring the plants to soil. Except for AtNAT10, GUS activity could be detected in all plants. As shown below, the expression of NAT genes nicely correlated with the categorization of the particular AtNAT proteins into the phylogenetic clades/subclades, i.e. NAT proteins belonging to the same clade/subclade possess similar patterns of expression and are expected to serve similar functions.   Clade I can be subdivided into two subclades, one consisting of AtNAT1 and AtNAT2 and the other of AtNAT3 ( Fig. 1 ). Both AtNAT1 and - 2 showed a similar expression pattern during germination, with AtNAT2 being more strongly expressed. While AtNAT2 was expressed in cotyledons at 4 d after imbibition (DAI, Fig. 4 F), the expression of AtNAT1 could be detected in the cotyledons only at 10 DAI ( Fig. 4 A). In both cases, the activity was found at the major and minor veins of cotyledons and young leaves, and especially concentrated at the shoot apex ( Fig. 4 A, F–H). This pattern of expression was maintained in mature leaves and pediceles ( Fig. 4 D, K–LL). In the root system, the activity of the promoter was found at meristematic areas, root tips and lateral root primordia ( Fig. 4 B, C, I, J). In reproductive organs, AtNAT1 is poorly expressed, while AtNAT2 is highly expressed during gynoecium development, disappearing with maturation ( Fig. 4 E, M).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] AtNAT3 expression could be detected at 4 DAI at the apical meristem ( Fig. 4 N) and this pattern was maintained for the next 2 weeks ( Fig. 4 O). Later on, GUS activity was observed exclusively in the major veins of rosette leaves and pedicels ( Fig. 4 R–T). In the root system, GUS staining was detected in the central cylinder and at meristematic areas, root tips and lateral root primordia ( Fig. 4 P, Q). In flower buds, expression was found in the gynoecium during development, but was disappearing after pollination ( Fig. 4 U). During embryogenesis, weak GUS staining was observed at the mature embryo stage ( Fig. 4 V).   Clade II is subdivided into two subclades, one consisting of AtNAT4 and the other one containing two highly related proteins (92% similarity), AtNAT9 and -10. Notably, AtNAT9 and - 10 could not be analyzed separately on microarrays due to this high degree of similarity ( https://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch/ , Zimmermann et al. CITATION ).  AtNAT4 expression was found at 4 DAI in some cells at the embryonic root area and some isolated cells of the elongation zone ( Fig. 5 A, B). The expression in roots is very strong in 2-week-old seedlings and is widespread to the whole root central cylinder ( Fig. 5 C, E). No expression was observed in meristematic areas or in developing secondary roots. This pattern was maintained during development ( Fig. 5 F–H). In the floral organs, AtNAT4 promoter activity was detected in the filaments and stigmatic papillae of flowers after pollination and in developing siliques ( Fig. 5 D).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  The AtNAT9 promoter is barely active. Expression was only found in specialized regions such as stipules in the apical meristem ( Fig. 5 I) and the hydatodes in developed leaves ( Fig. 5 J–L). The AtNAT10 promoter activity is below the detection level because no AtNAT10 promoter-driven GUS activity could be detected at all.   Clade III can be subdivided into two subclades comprising AtNAT5 and -6, and AtNAT7 and -8, respectively. AtNAT5 expression is weak and could first be detected in 2-week-old seedlings in the vasculature of developing leaves ( Fig. 6 A). The expression was restricted to minor veins, a pattern that was maintained in adult rosettes ( Fig. 6 B). In contrast, RT–PCR analysis provided evidence that NAT5 is also expressed in other tissues such as stems, roots and flowers ( Fig. 3 ). These discrepancies may be the result of differences in mRNA stability or the absence of additional promoter or enhancer elements that were not covered by the promoter region used for the reporter gene fusion. No expression was found in other organs or tissues, except for the seed coat at the mature embryo stage ( Fig. 6 C). In contrast, AtNAT6 is strongly expressed; GUS staining could be detected at 4 DAI in the apical region of the cotyledons ( Fig. 6 D) and in the whole vasculature at 12 DAI ( Fig. 6 E). In developing leaves, the minor veins and the surrounding cells showed strong expression ( Fig. 6 F–H), as is the case for the central cylinder of roots and the lateral root primordia ( Fig. 6 I, J). In reproductive organs, expression was found in the vasculature of sepals, filaments and carpels ( Fig. 6 K). In developing siliques, expression was confined to the vascular strands ( Fig. 6 L).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  Expression of AtNAT7 and - 8 , members of the second subclade of clade III, was found only in ovules ( Fig. 6 LL–O) and is maintained during embryogenesis. While AtNAT7 expression is weak, that of AtNAT8 is strong in the endosperm and the embryo ( Fig. 6 P–S). The strongest expression was observed at the heart stage, disappearing afterwards but being maintained at the seed coat.   Clade V includes AtNAT11 and AtNAT12, which show overlapping but distinct expression patterns. AtNAT11 expression was found at the leaf primordia of 2-week-old seedlings and, at a later stage, at the vasculature of pedicels and rosette leaves ( Fig. 7 A, B). This pattern of expression was also observed in mature rosette leaves and stems, where a weak but still visible staining could be detected in mesophyll cells ( Fig. 7 C–E). GUS staining was also found in the central cylinder of mature roots ( Fig. 7 F) and in the vasculature of sepals, carpels and siliques ( Fig. 7 G, H).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] AtNAT12 is expressed rather constitutively and more strongly than AtNAT11 . At 2 DAI, expression was found in the whole seedling ( Fig. 7 I), and at 4 DAI in hypocotyls, cotyledons and the meristematic area of root tips ( Fig. 7 J). This expression pattern was maintained until 12 DAI, when the vasculature showed very strong GUS staining ( Fig. 7 K). Three-week-old plants showed GUS activity in all aerial parts, including both mesophyll and vascular tissues ( Fig. 7 L–M). In roots, the expression was found in secondary roots ( Fig. 7 N). In the reproductive organs, expression was detected in sepals, filaments ( Fig. 7 O) and in carpels, including the vascular tissue, ovules and the papillae ( Fig. 7 O, P). AtNAT12 promoter activity was found at all stages during embryogenesis, in the embryo proper and endosperm ( Fig. 7 Q–T) and the whole pod tissue ( Fig. 7 U).   All AtNATs except for AtNAT10 are represented on the Arabidopsis ATH1 Genome Array, and according to AtGenExpress data analyzed using Genevestigator ( https://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch/ ) the expression of AtNAT7 is up-regulated several times in A. tumefaciens -induced tumors. To confirm these data, A. thaliana plants were infected with the A. tumefaciens virulent strain C58 at the base of stalk inflorescences. RNA was extracted at different times during the proliferation of tumors, and the levels of all AtNAT transcripts were analyzed by semi-quantitative RT–PCR. Transcript levels of AtNAT7 and the homologous gene AtNAT8 increased during tumor growth ( Fig. 8 A), while those of all other AtNAT s remained unchanged (not shown). Moreover, plants expressing the GUS gene under the control of the AtNAT7 and - 8 promoters ( pAtNAT7-GUS and pAtNAT8-GUS plants) showed GUS activities in tumors of infected plants ( Fig. 8 B).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  Tumor formation in plant tissues is caused by an imbalance of the hormones auxin and cytokinin. Another example of a deregulated control of cell division and growth is the formation of undifferentiated callus tissue. We therefore analyzed the expression of AtNAT7 and - 8 during the development of callus from A. thaliana cotyledons. As shown in Fig. 8 C, the transcript abundance of AtNAT7 and - 8 genes was high in this tissue, while no transcripts could be detected in cotyledons used as donor tissue. Moreover, transgenic callus developed from pAtNAT7-GUS and pAtNAT8-GUS cotyledons showed intense GUS activity ( Fig. 8 D). The level of expression of all other members of the AtNAT gene family was also analyzed during the induction of callus formation from cotyledons. Except for the expression of AtNAT9 and - 10 that was always under the limits of detection, a basal level of expression for all other AtNAT genes was confirmed in the cotyledons ( Fig. 8 E). After 7 d of callus induction, the level of all AtNAT transcripts increased. The expression levels of AtNAT3 , - 5 , - 6 and - 11 were maintained in 28-day-old callus, while those of AtNAT1 , - 2 , - 4 and - 12 clearly decreased ( Fig. 8 E). Obviously, AtNAT7 and -8 function is especially recruited during callus formation in A. thaliana .   Calli development was also investigated in nat7 × nat8 double mutants. No obvious phenotypic alterations could be observed and the expression levels of AtNAT5 and - 6 , both also belonging to clade III, remained unchanged and could apparently not compensate for the loss of AtNAT7 and -8 function ( Fig. 8 F).   To gain insight into the physiological function of plant AtNAT proteins, T-DNA insertion mutants of all AtNAT genes were isolated from Wisconsin-, Salk- and GABI-Kat lines, respectively, via a PCR screening strategy ( Table 1 ). All mutant lines analyzed showed no detectable expression of the corresponding genes as analyzed by RT–PCR. However, none of the lines displayed any informative phenotypical difference compared with the wild type neither when grown in the greenhouse nor when exposed to various environmental challenges (e.g. high light, UV, metal stress, paraquat treatment, phosphate or iron deficiencies, agrobacteria tumor formation and callus development).   The absence of visible mutant phenotypes may be due to functional redundancies within the AtNAT clades allowing compensation for the loss of a single gene. To reduce possible redundancies, homozygous double mutants were generated between mutants belonging to the same clade/subclade: nat1 and nat2 (clade I), nat4 and nat9 (clade II), nat4 and nat10 (clade II), nat9 and nat10 (clade II), nat5 and nat6 (clade III) and nat7 and nat8 (clade III). A triple mutant, nat1 nat2 nat3 (clade I) was generated by crossing the double homozygous mutant nat 1 × nat2 with nat3 . None of these mutants including the triple mutant showed any obvious phenotypical alteration when compared with the wild type. Further analyses of these mutants grown under more sophisticated conditions might potentially reveal hidden functions that the NAT family members have in A. thaliana .   To investigate whether nat mutants (single, double and triple mutants) are affected in their ascorbate and/or glutathione (GSH) contents, roots and rosettes of seedlings grown under moderate light were harvested before and after exposure to high light (500 μmol quanta m −2 s −1 ) and the content of ascorbate and GSH was subsequently determined by HPLC. No significant differences in the content or in the ratio of reduced/oxidized forms of ascorbate and GSH could be observed as compared with the wild type (data not shown).   The lack of any mutant phenotype even in triple mutants of AtNATs points to a high redundancy of NAT functions in plants. Indeed, many of the NAT genes in A. thaliana show an overlapping expression, indicating that the disruption of one or more genes could be compensated by other NAT genes or by genes unrelated to NATs, e.g. other transporters.   The comparative analysis of the expression patterns of AtNAT genes revealed that some members of this gene family show ubiquitous expression (e.g. AtNAT12 ), while the expression of other AtNAT genes is restricted to specific tissues (e.g. AtNAT7 , - 8 and - 9 ). Most AtNAT genes showed a pronounced expression in vascular tissues, an observation that might indicate that AtNAT functions are associated with long-distance transport processes. AtNAT12, present in clade V, contains a putative N-terminal plastidic targeting sequence but was shown experimentally to localize to the plasma membrane. Thus, none of the NAT proteins reside in plastidic membranes. It appears feasible, therefore, that as yet unknown transporters, distinct from AtNATs, mediate ascorbate transport into plastids.   Although many attempts were made to elucidate the functional activity of AtNAT proteins including complementation of A. nidulans strains lacking all functional NATs, heterologous expression in yeast cells and transport measurements of ascorbate and purines, expression in oocytes or uptake measurements of radiolabeled substrates in whole plants using the knock-out lines, no clear results could be obtained. It is worth mentioning that the LPE1 from maize represents the only plant NAT protein with an assigned function (Argyrou et al. CITATION ). Because none of the Arabidopsis NAT proteins clusters with ZmLPE1 ( Fig. 1 ), they might have substrate specificities different from LPE1.   AtNAT7 and -8 were localized to the plasma membrane and their expression was found exclusively in developing ovules and embryos of A. thaliana plants growing under normal conditions. Interestingly, the expression of both genes is recruited during callus formation and tumor development upon infection with A. tumefaciens at the bases of inflorescence stalks of A. thaliana plants. Although our knowledge of the biochemical functions and substrate specificities of the AtNATs is still poor, our results suggest that these two members of clade III are involved in the transport of signal molecules or substrates needed during the fast growth of undifferentiated tissues. Further studies are required to shed light on the physiological roles played by members of the NAT family in A. thaliana for which a deeper analysis of the nat 7 × nat8 double mutants might provide a first clue. 
!~MM~!  NAT genes of A. thaliana (Columbia-0) were identified by BLAST searches of the NCBI database ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast/Blast ) and the Rice Genome Research program (RGP, http://rgp.dna.affrc.go.jp ) based on sequence similarity with the amino acid sequence of the rat VitC transporter 1 (RnNAT1; SVCT1; AF080453) and the purine transporter LPE1 from Zea mays . Phylogenetic analysis of their deduced amino acid sequences was conducted using the ClustalX 1.81 program (Thompson et al. CITATION ), and the results were displayed using the TreeView 1.1.6 program (Page CITATION ).  Arabidopsis thaliana L., ecotype Columbia-0 and the mutant lines were grown in the greenhouse under a 16 h light/8 h dark regime at day/night temperatures of 21°C/18°C. Alternatively, A. thaliana seedlings were first sown on MS medium containing 2% (w/v) sucrose for 2 weeks and then transferred to greenhouse conditions.   Callus cultures were produced from cotyledons of A. thaliana wild-type, single and double knock-out lines for AtNAT7 and - 8 and transformants expressing AtpNAT7 and AtpNAT8-GUS in MS medium supplemented with 3% (w/v) sucrose, 0.5 mg l −1 6-benzylaminopurine (w/v), 1 mg l −1 naphthalene acetic acid (w/v), 1 mg l −1 IAA (w/v) and 1 mg l −1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (w/v), and solidified with 9 g l −1 agar. Calli were maintained by subculturing in the same medium every 3 weeks. The same A. thaliana lines were used to induce tumor growth. The bases of inflorescence stalks were wounded and inoculated with the supervirulent A. tumefaciencs C58 strain (provided by R. Hedrich, University of Würzburg, Germany; Deeken et al. CITATION ). At different times after callus or tumor induction, the tissue was collected and used for RT–PCR and GUS staining.   Total RNA from A. thaliana leaves, stems, flowers, roots and tumor tissue was isolated from 100 mg of material using the TRIzol reagent (Gibco-BRL) and the protocol suggested by the manufacturer (Gibco-BRL). A 2 μg aliquot of total RNA was transcribed using SuperScript II Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) and used directly for RT–PCR. Specific primers designed to amplify each AtNAT are listed in Supplementary Table 1. Amplification conditions were as follows: 3 min at 94°C; 29–35 cycles of 94°C for 30 s, 50–55°C for 30 s and 72°C for 60 s, followed by incubation for 5 min at 72°C. PCR products were separated on a 1% agarose gel and stained with ethidium bromide. As loading control, the Actin2 gene was amplified using 29 cycles and specific primers (Supplementary Table 1).   Promoter regions for all members of the AtNAT family were amplified by RT–PCR using specific primers (Supplementary Table 2) and cloned into either pGPTV-BAR that carries the GUS gene (Jefferson et al. CITATION ) or pGWB3, a gateway-compatible binary vector designed for promoter-driven expression of the GUS gene that carries the kanamycin resistance gene (kindly provided by T. Nakagawa, Shimane University, Izumo, Japan). Cloning using gateway vectors was done using reagents and protocols from Invitrogen. Oligonucleotide primers were designed to amplify fragments containing the promoter region, the first exon and intron and part of the second exon (Supplementary Table 2). The plasmids containing the chimeric pAtNAT-GUS genes were introduced into A. thaliana by A. tumefaciens (GV3101)-mediated transformation using the vacuum infiltration method. Transgenic lines were selected with BASTA or kanamycin and analyzed for GUS activity.   Seedlings or tissues from transgenic plants were submerged in staining solution containing 100 mM Na 3 PO 4 (pH 7.0), 10 mM EDTA, 0.5 mM ferricyanide, 0.5 mM ferrocyanide, 0.1% Triton X-100 and 0.1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-glucuronide cyclohexylamine (Jefferson et al. CITATION ). After overnight incubation at 37°C, the staining solution was removed, and the tissues were fixed with 50% (v/v) ethanol, 5% (v/v) acetic acid and 3.7% (v/v) formaldehyde. The tissue was cleared by incubation in 80% ethanol at 65°C. Developmental patterns of promoter activity were analyzed in T 2 plants. Siliques at different developmental stages were harvested and excised lengthwise prior to GUS staining. Dissected embryos were cleared in chloral hydrate : water : glycerin (8 : 2 : 1) and observed under a Nikon eclipse E800 microscope equipped with a digital camera (ky-F1030, JVC, Japan). Samples to be sectioned were stained as described above and fixed in 4% glutaraldehyde overnight at 4°C. Fixed tissues were dehydrated through an ethanol series and embedded in Paraplast (Roth). Embedded material was cut into 10 μm sections using a microtome, dewaxed with Rotihistol (Merk), mounted on glass slides with Entellan new (Merk) and observed under the microscope.  AtNAT7 , - 8 and - 12–GFP fusions were constructed using the full-length coding sequence or, alternatively, a region containing the putative transit peptide (only for NAT12) fused to the GFP coding sequence and flanked by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter and terminator sequences. AtNAT12 full-length cDNA was amplified using the primers NAT12GWF (5′-CACCATGTCAAGCTCCGACCCGAAA-3) and NAT12GWR (5′-TGGGTCAAATGGGTGGGCATT-3′) and the short fragment with the primers NAT12GWF and NAT12GW480R (5′-CCTCAGAGTATGGATGATGATTTAGTG-3). In the case of AtNAT7, the full-length cDNA was amplified using the primers NAT7GWF (5′-CACCATGGCCGGTGGTGGTGGAGGAGGA-3′) and NAT7GWR (5′- CACAGAGGGAAAATACTTGTTGAGAT-3′) and AtNAT8 with the primer pair NAT8GWF (5′-CACATGGCAGGTGATGGCGTAGAAAAT-3′) and NAT8GWR (5′-GTGAGAAGGAAAGTACTTGCTGAGAT-3′). The fragments obtained were cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen). GFP fusion constructs were made by subcloning the coding sequence into pGWB5 (for C-terminal GFP), a gateway-compatible binary vector designed for 35S promoter-driven expression of GFP fusion proteins (kindly provided by T. Nakagawa, Shimane University, Izumo, Japan). Cloning using gateway vector was done using reagents and protocols from Invitrogen.   Transient transformation of A. thaliana cells was conducted as described by Koroleva et al. ( CITATION ) using the virulent SV0 Agrobacterium strain (LBA4404.pBBR1MCS virGN54D). Particle bombardment assays were performed on the adaxial epidermal peels from onion bulb scales. The plasmids carrying the GFP fusions were precipitated onto 1.0 μm diameter gold particles and bombarded on the specimens using a helium gun (Biolistic PDS-1000/He Particle Delivery System Bio-Rad) and rupture discs of 900 p.s.i. Bombarded tissues were incubated at 25°C for 20 h in the dark. Plasmolysis was induced by incubating mounted epidermis slices in 0.5 M NaCl for 10 min. Epifluorescence microscopy was performed using a Nikon eclipse E800 microscope coupled to a digital camera (ky- F1030, JVC, Japan). Detection of GFP was achieved by using a GFP filter (excitation 460–500 nm and emission 510–560 nm).   Wisconsin-, Salk- and GABI-Kat insertion lines were obtained from the Wisconsin knock-out facility ( http://biotech.wisc.edu/Arabidopsis/Index2.asp ), the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Center ( http://www.arabidopsis.info/ ) and the GABI-Kat facility ( http://www.gabi-kat.de/ ), respectively. The genotype of the lines was determined using a PCR-based approach. Basically, genomic DNA was isolated from individual plants and used as template for PCR amplifications of the wild-type and the nat alleles (Supplementary Table 3). The position of the T-DNA insertion sites in the NAT genes was verified by amplifying and sequencing the T-DNA flanking genomic DNA.   Supplementary material mentioned in the article is available to online subscribers at the journal website www.pcp.oupjournals.org . 
