!~ABS~! Many eukaryotic cells use RNA-directed silencing mechanisms to protect against viruses and transposons and to suppress endogenous gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. RNA silencing also is implicated in epigenetic mechanisms affecting chromosome structure and transcriptional gene silencing. Here, we describe enhanced silencing phenotype (esp) mutants in Arabidopsis thaliana that reveal how proteins associated with RNA processing and 3′ end formation can influence RNA silencing. These proteins were a putative DEAH RNA helicase homologue of the yeast PRP2 RNA splicing cofactor and homologues of mRNA 3′ end formation proteins CstF64, symplekin/PTA1, and CPSF100. The last two proteins physically associated with the flowering time regulator FY in the 3′ end formation complex AtCPSF. The phenotypes of the 3′ end formation esp mutants include impaired termination of the transgene transcripts, early flowering, and enhanced silencing of the FCA-β mRNA. Based on these findings, we propose that the ESP-containing 3′ end formation complexes prevent transgene and endogenous mRNAs from entering RNA-silencing pathways. According to this proposal, in the absence of these ESP proteins, these RNAs have aberrant 3′ termini. The aberrant RNAs would enter the RNA silencing pathways because they are converted into dsRNA by RNA-dependent RNA polymerases.
!~RES~! Potato Virus X (PVX) transgene amplicons comprise a cDNA copy of the replicating viral RNA coupled to a transgene promoter. Viral amplicon transgenes initiate siRNA production in transgenic plants because the viral RNA is a substrate for the RNA-silencing machinery, and they can be used to target silencing in trans by insertion of nonviral sequence. When a GFP cDNA insert was inserted into a PVX amplicon (AGFP) (CITATION), there was efficient silencing of a functional GFP transgene. However, when amplicons with inserts from the endogenous phytoene desaturase (PDS) gene were tested, the photobleaching silencing phenotype was restricted to small spots on leaves of the transgenic plants (Apds2; FIG-REF A). The difference between this inefficient silencing of PDS and strong GFP silencing is most likely related to the production of secondary siRNAs. The GFP transgene target RNAs support amplification of the silencing mechanism through an RDR6-dependent mechanism of secondary siRNA production, whereas PDS and other endogenous RNA species do not (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To identify factors limiting the silencing phenotype, we mutagenized two independent Apds2 lines with ethyl-methanesulfonate (FIG-REF B; Apds2-301 and Apds-311) and identified esp mutant plants by an increase in spots of photobleaching (FIG-REF B). One class of mutants represented by esp3 had reduced stature, early flowering (see below), and altered leaf morphology (Fig. 6, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). A second class represented by esp1, esp4, and esp5 also were early flowering (see below) but had normal stature and leaf morphology. In both classes, relative to wild-type plants, there was 2- to 3-fold fewer of the endogenous PDS mRNA than in the wild-type plants (FIG-REF C) and 10- to 50-fold higher levels of PDS siRNA (FIG-REF D). The PVX amplicons included a GUS reporter gene of virus replication in addition to a tandem repeat PDS insert. Thus, by Northern blotting (FIG-REF C) and GUS staining (FIG-REF B), we established that the enhanced silencing in the esp mutants was correlated with increased replication and accumulation of PVX::PDS genomic and subgenomic RNAs. We also showed that the enhanced silencing involved a previously characterized silencing pathway because it depended on the RDR6 RNA-dependent RNA polymerase that also was required for transgene silencing of GFP (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). In esp4-1 rdr6, photobleaching was reduced relative to esp4-1 (FIG-REF B) and the level of PVX::PDS RNA increased (FIG-REF C), whereas the level of PDS siRNA decreased (FIG-REF D). Our initial conclusion from these analyses was that in esp4-1 and most probably the other esp mutants, there was enhancement both of virus replication and RDR6-dependent RNA silencing. In the single esp mutants, the enhanced replication would have been partially counteracted because the viral RNA is a target of silencing. However, in the double esp4-1 rdr6 mutant when the RDR6-silencing pathway would not have been active, the enhancement of virus replication would have been unrestrained. To determine whether the enhanced silencing phenotype was specific to the tandem sense PDS insert found in Apds2, we crossed the esp1-1, 3-1, 4-1, and 5-1 alleles into plants with a PVX amplicon containing a single PDS insert in the antisense orientation (Apds1as) or with a sense fragment from Albino3 (Aalb3) (Fig. 7A, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). Albino3 is a chloroplast membrane protein that produces a photobleached phenotype when defective (CITATION). In the WT background, both amplicons produced higher virus levels than Apds2, but as with Apds2 lines, visible silencing was minimal (Fig. 7B). However, in the esp backgrounds, the silencing was enhanced. With Apds1as mutants and Aalb3 esp3-1, the enhanced silencing phenotype was on true leaves, as with Apds2. However, with Aalb3 esp1-1, 4-1, and 5-1, the enhanced photobleaching was manifested only in the cotyledons (Fig. 7B). Because both Apds1as and Aalb3 exhibited enhanced silencing phenotypes in the mutants, we considered that further characterization of esp1, esp3, esp4, and esp5 would be informative regarding the mechanisms limiting silencing.  ESP3 mapped to a gene previously identified as essential for embryonic development in Arabidopsis (At1g32490/EMB2733; Fig. 6 A and B; ref. CITATION). ESP3 is a homologue of PRP2 (FIG-REF A), one of four related DEAH RNA helicases identified as essential cofactors for RNA splicing in yeast (PRP2, PRP16, PRP22, and PRP43; refs. CITATION and CITATION). ESP3 is likely to be the principle PRP2 homologue in Arabidopsis because it has all six of the required helicase motifs (Fig. 6C) and is expressed in a wider set of tissues than the two other helicases of the PRP2 class (At2g35340 and At4g16680; FIG-REF B). All seven esp3 mutations introduce changes to the protein primary structure because they result in amino acid changes in the encoded protein or disrupt RNA splice junction sites (Fig. 6). [[FIGURE]]  ESP1 mapped to At1g73840 (Fig. 8A, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). The only esp1allele from our screen (esp1-1) carried a premature nonsense codon in exon 4. We confirmed the identity of ESP1 by fully complementing the enhanced silencing and virus replication phenotypes with a genomic fragment of ESP1 transcribed from the 35S promoter (FIG-REF C and 8B). ESP1 was expressed in all developmental stages (FIG-REF B). Consistent with a role in RNA metabolism, ESP1 resembled the CstF64 family of RNA processing factors that are conserved between yeast and mammals (Fig. 8C). In mammals, CstF64 is a component of the CstF complex. CstF is required for mRNA 3′ end formation in mammals (CITATION) along with CPSF, PolyA polymerase, cleavage factors I and II, and the carboxyl-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II (reviewed in ref. CITATION). CPSF and CstF physically interact and bind cooperatively to the cleavage sites in mRNA precursors. ESP1 differs from a canonical Arabidopsis homologue of CstF64 (At1g71800; hereafter denoted AtCstF64) in that it lacks an RNA recognition motif (RRM) (FIG-REF D and 8C). However, ESP1 does contain two key domains found in other CstF64 homologues (FIG-REF D and 8C). The first domain, the hinge, interacts with CstF77 and with Symplekin/Pta1 (CITATION, CITATION). The second domain is recognized by PC4 (mammals), Sub1(budding yeast) (CITATION), or the ankyrin repeat protein, res1 (fission yeast) (CITATION). The PC4/Sub1/res1 domain controls transcription elongation in these organisms. PC4/Sub1 homologues exist in Arabidopsis (At5g09250/KIWI and At4g10920/KELP) suggesting that this function is retained (CITATION) in plants. Phylogenetic analysis by using the hinge and PC4/Sub1/res1 domains indicated that AtCstF64 and ESP1 diverged after the establishment of the plant lineage but before the separation of monocots and dicots (FIG-REF E). The conservation of these two domains suggests that, despite the absence of the RRM, ESP1 has the potential to interact with the 3′ end formation apparatus. The identity of ESP4 also is consistent with the idea that ESP1 may be an RNA processing component. All seven esp4 alleles mapped to a Symplekin/Pta1 homologue (At5g01400; Fig. 9 A and B, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site) that, as described above, would have the potential to interact with the hinge domain of ESP1 or AtCstF64. The esp4 mutants would all have affected the encoded protein either by modification of the coding sequence or by disrupting RNA splice sites (Fig. 9). The splice site mutations affected the size of the esp4 mRNA and, with esp4-5, a misspliced mRNA accumulated at a much higher level than its wild-type equivalent (FIG-REF F). The yeast ESP4 homologue, PTA1, is essential for growth (CITATION) and is one of several components of the cleavage polyadenylation factor (CPF), which is analogous to mammalian CPSF (CITATION). However the esp4 plants are fully viable, suggesting that esp4 may be functionally redundant with its closest homologues in the Arabidopsis genome (At1g27590/At1g27595). These adjacent genes are similar to the amino and carboxyl termini of ESP4 (FIG-REF G and 9D) and are both expressed throughout development (FIG-REF B). We were unable to detect a transcript spanning both genes either experimentally (data not shown) or in cDNA databases (www.arabidopsis.org), even though there is a single predicted structural homologue (Os1g49940) of these adjacent genes in rice (FIG-REF H). The ESP5 locus also encodes a protein that is likely to be part of the mRNA3′ end formation apparatus because it encodes the orthologue of mammalian CPSF100 (AtCPSF100/At5g23880/EMB1265) (FIG-REF I; Fig. 10 A–C, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). This protein would be a key component of the CPSF complex that acts together with CstF in 3′ end formation. AtCPSF100 interacts with PolyA polymerase (CITATION) and is essential for embryonic development (CITATION). The esp5 allele (G12E) obtained from our screen did not have a strong effect on plant development or morphology, and it is likely to encode a protein with partial loss of function. We confirmed the identity of ESP5 by transgenic complementation of the mutant phenotype, in three independent lines, with a genomic ESP5 construct transcribed by the ESP5 promoter (Fig. 10B). Based on the identity of the ESP loci, we considered that both the virus replication and enhanced silencing esp1, esp4, and esp5 phenotypes could be due to modified 3′ end formation of the amplicon transgene transcripts. To test this possibility, we used RT-PCR to monitor transcriptional read-through of the nopaline synthase terminator (NosT) at the end of the Apds2 transgene. Using primers to detect sense RNA transcripts downstream of NosT (RTI and PCR1; FIG-REF), we detected a low level of transcription through NosT in both Apds2 parental lines (FIG-REF, lanes 3 and 4) that increased markedly in esp1-1 (lane 5), esp4-1 (lanes 7 and 10), esp4-3 (lane 8), and esp5-1 (lane 9). The abundance of the read-through product in esp4-1 was not affected by RNA silencing mutations rdr6 (lane 11) or sgs3 (lane 12). [[FIGURE]] NosT antisense RNA from the read-through region (detected by RTII and PCR1: FIG-REF) was present in wild-type plants and at elevated levels in esp1-1, esp4-1, esp4-3, and esp5-1 (lanes 5 and 7–9). This antisense RNA is not likely to be a product of RDR6 because the levels in esp4-1 were not affected by rdr6 or sgs3 mutations (compare lanes 7 and 10 with lanes 11 and 12). Apds2 antisense RNA corresponding to the double pds insert (RT2 and PCR2; FIG-REF) also was more abundant in the esp mutants than in the wild-type plants. We can rule out that the increase in abundance of the read-through transcripts is a consequence of the enhanced silencing because they were rare in esp3-1. Instead, it is likely that the enhanced silencing phenotypes of esp1, esp4, and esp5 are a consequence of these read-through transcripts. A plausible scenario is that the read-through transcripts arise because transgene transcript 3′ end formation is impaired in these esp mutants. If there are read-through transcripts from both DNA strands, the sense and antisense RNAs then could anneal to form a dsRNA DCL substrate, as for natural antisense RNA involved in salt stress response (CITATION). Alternatively, the read-although transcripts may be converted to dsRNA by an RDR other than RDR6. To explain the enhanced replication of the PVX amplicon RNA phenotype in the esp mutants, we propose that there are cryptic 3′ end formation sites within the viral genome so that many of the transgene transcripts are incomplete viral RNAs in the wild-type plants. In the esp1, esp4, and esp5 mutants, the reduced frequency of 3′ end formation would mean that that there is more full-length or greater-than-full-length viral RNA and, consequently, more replicating viral RNA. The ESP3 protein differs from ESP1, ESP4, and ESP5 in that it is implicated in RNA splicing rather than 3′ end formation. It therefore is not surprising that there was no enhancement of read-through transcription in esp3-1 (FIG-REF, lane 6). To account for the esp3 phenotypes, we propose that there may be cryptic splice sites in the PVX amplicon transcripts. An ESP3-based mechanism would splice out regions of the transcript to generate RNA that would be a poor initiator of silencing and replicate inefficiently. According to this idea, RNA silencing and PVX amplicon replication would be enhanced in the esp3 plants because these spliced RNAs would be less abundant than in the wild-type plants. The molecular characteristics of ESP1, ESP4, and ESP5/AtCPSF100 suggest that they are part of a complex that processes amplicon transcripts and influences their ability to initiate RNA silencing. Given that ESP5 is expected to be a core component of AtCPSF, we wanted to determine whether ESP1 and ESP4 were also core components of this complex. We purified AtCPSF by using a FLAG-CPSF100 fusion protein expressed from the endogenous AtCPSF100 promoter. This transgene construct complemented esp5-1, and the plants expressed a protein of the predicted size that could be detected with FLAG antibody (FIG-REF A). [[FIGURE]] We immunoprecipitated FLAG-CPSF100 from 3-week-old seedling extracts, eluted protein bound to the beads with FLAG peptide, digested the samples with trypsin and identified eluted proteins by mass spectrometry. As negative controls, we performed the same procedure by using plants expressing an unrelated FLAG-fusion protein (FLAG-SDE3) and plants that did not express a FLAG fusion protein (GxA) (FIG-REF A). The analysis, done in duplicate for each sample, revealed numerous FLAG-CPSF100-specific peptides corresponding to ESP5/CPSF100, CPSF160, CPSF73, ESP4, and FY. FY is a homologue of yeast Pfs2p, which is part of the CPF complex in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (FIG-REF B; see Fig. 11, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site), the counterpart of mammalian CPSF (CITATION). This collection of interacting proteins confirms that ESP5 is an integral component of AtCPSF. The copurification of ESP4 with ESP5 and the absence of peptides from the ESP4 homologues (At1g27590/95) suggest that ESP4 is the principal Symplekin-like component of AtCPSF in vegetative organs. We did not identify peptides from homologues of CPSF30 (At1g30460) and Fip1 (At5g58040; 133 kDa), which both are found in mammalian CPSF. AtCPSF30 may be too small to obtain sufficient peptides for detection under our purification conditions, whereas Fip1 may not be an integral component of CPSF in plants. In vitro, AtFip1 interacted with Arabidopsis polyA-polymerase and members of AtCPSF, AtCstF, and AtCF1 (CITATION), suggesting that AtFip1 may associate preferentially with a larger complex of 3′ end formation factors similar to that identified in yeast (CITATION, CITATION). This larger complex is not stable under our purification conditions because we did not detect any AtCstF-like components, including ESP1 (CstF64 homologue), in our preparations. The AtCPSF complex described here is likely required for processing of most, if not all, mRNAs in vegetative tissues. However, because 3′ end formation is essential and the esp4 and esp5 mutant phenotypes are relatively mild, much of the cellular mRNA must be properly processed and expressed. Nevertheless, there may be endogenous mRNAs where misprocessing leads to silencing in the esp mutants. One well characterized example of RNA misprocessing occurs when FY is defective. FY normally binds the RNA-binding protein FCA and mediates an autoregulatory mechanism involving alternate 3′ end formation. In this mechanism, FCA guides 3′ end formation within intron 3 of the FCA pre-mRNA so that there is accumulation of a truncated RNA referred to as FCA-β mRNA, which is reduced in fy. As ESP4 and ESP5 bind to FY in AtCPSF, we expected that levels of FCA-β mRNA also would be lower in esp4 and esp5 mutants. Our results confirmed that expectation (FIG-REF A). However, other aspects of the esp4 and esp5 phenotype differed from fy. For example, the full-length FCA-γ mRNA was equally abundant in the esp4, esp5, and wild-type plants (FIG-REF A), whereas in fy, it was more abundant (CITATION). There was also a difference in flowering time: esp4 and esp5 plants were early flowering (Table 1; see Fig. 12, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site), whereas fy genotype plants flowered late. The difference between the fy and esp phenotypes could be because mutants were not in the same genotypes. However, it also remains possible that ESP4/ESP5 do not act in exactly the same way as FY. [[FIGURE]] Summary of mass-spectral sequencing analysis of FLAG-ESP IP-specific peptides Because ESP4 and ESP5 have an effect on transgene RNA silencing, we explored the possibility that their effect on FCA might involve enhanced silencing of an endogenous RNA. We therefore recombined esp4-1 separately with the RNA silencing mutants rdr6, sde3-1, and nrpd1a-1 and monitored the profile of FCA mRNAs. The results, shown in FIG-REF A, illustrate that these silencing mutants reversed the hypoaccumulation of FCA-β mRNAs in esp4. It therefore is likely that the reduced accumulation of FCA-β mRNA in esp4 is due, directly or indirectly, to RNA silencing.
!~MM~! Apds2 is a derivative of PVX/GUS (CITATION) containing two copies of PDS in the sense orientation. This construct was transformed into the Arabidopsis thaliana C24 ecotype to create the transgenic lines Apds2-301 and Apds2-311. Segregation analysis showed Apds2-301 and Apds2-311 contained single insertions of the transgene. T3 Apds2-301 and Apds2-311 seeds were mutagenized with ethyl-methanesulfonate, and M2 seedlings were screened for mutants with an esp phenotype. Apds1as contains a single antisense PDS insert and was transformed into C24 to generate line Apds1as-1; Aalb3, containing a sense fragment from ALB3, was used to create Aalb3-TD36 (C24). Both Apds1as-1 and Aalb3-TD-36 lines were crossed into esp mutant lines in which the Apds2 previously had been crossed out and mutant individuals were identified in the F2 generation. Leaves were stained for GUS expression as described in ref. CITATION. The rdr6 allele used in these experiments corresponds to sde1-1 (CITATION). The sgs3 allele corresponds to sde2-1 (CITATION), a 3.6-kb deletion of the entire SGS3 coding sequence (A.J.H., unpublished data). The sde3-1 (CITATION) and nrpd1a-1 (CITATION) alleles have been described. Additional information on amplicon construction, mapping, genetic crosses, complementation of esp1 and esp5, and PCR genotyping assays is found in Supporting Materials and Methods, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site. Full-length cDNA sequences for ESP1, ESP3, and ESP5/CPSF100 were available from the Arabidopsis sequence database (www.arabidopsis.org) and confirmed by our own sequencing of cDNAs. Only a partial 3′ cDNA sequence was available for ESP4, so we determined the full-length sequence from RT-PCR and 5′ RACE products and then deduced the complete amino acid sequence for ESP4. Details of phylogenetic analysis can be found in Supporting Materials and Methods. RNA was prepared from 2.5-week-old seedlings (CITATION, CITATION). For analysis of high molecular weight total RNA, 10 μg of RNA was separated on 1% formaldehyde gels and blotted to Hybond-NX (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). For analysis of PVX and PDS RNA, the membrane first was probed with random prime-labeled probe 2. The membrane then was stripped and reprobed with sense-specific probe 1. The small RNA blot was prepared by using enriched small RNA fractions purified from 200 μg (1 μg/1 μl) total RNA as described in ref. CITATION. The blot first was probed for miRNA159 and siRNA 255 (CITATION) and then PDS siRNA by using a PDS sense-specific riboprobe. ESP1 and ESP4 samples were probed by using random prime ESP1 or ESP4 cDNA probes. For FCA analysis, polyA-RNA was purified from 300 μg of total RNA by using the MicroPolyA-RNA purist mRNA purification kit (Ambion, Austin, TX). The resulting membrane first was probed for FCA (CITATION), then stripped and reprobed for actin. Details of probes can be found in Supporting Materials and Methods. Expression of ESP genes and their homologues was assessed by amplifying cDNA made from polyA RNA purified from seedlings, roots, rosette leaves, stems, and flowers. Gene-specific primers were selected that amplified across exon-exon junctions, except in the case of At4g16680, which has a single small intron. Genomic DNA in each case was included as an amplification and size control. Strand-specific RT-PCR analysis of PVX transcripts was performed on total RNA that was pretreated with Turbo DNA-free (Ambion). Reverse transcription for RT1 was primed with a mixture of two primers: Actin 2exR (Table 2, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site) and M13R, which is present downstream of the Nos terminator in Apds2. Reverse transcription for RT2 was primed with Actin 2exR and PVX1 (Table 2), which is a sense primer upstream of the double PDS-insert in Apds2. PCR1 was performed with PDS5502F and 0179fp2006 (Table 2). PCR2 used PDS5502F and PVX2 (Table 2). PCR3 used ACTmaiFW and ACTmaiRV (CITATION). PCR1 and 2 were carried out for 30 cycles, whereas PCR3 went for 25 cycles. The starting material for the mass spectral analysis of FLAG-ESP5 interacting proteins was a line in which the esp5-1 mutation was complemented by an ESP5 promoter-driven FLAG-ESP5 transgene (73ESP5-2). Controls were GxA (ecotype C24) and sde3-1 35S-FLAG-SDE3 GxA, which complements the sde3-1 mutation (A.J.H., unpublished data; ecotype C24). Homozygous T4 seedlings were grown under long days (70% humidity; cycles of 16 h light/8 h dark) for 2.5 weeks. Final purification conditions were worked out by using smaller volumes of tissue and Western analysis as depicted in Fig. 7a. For the final purifications, FLAG immunoprecipations were performed on extracts from 100 g of vegetative tissue as described in Supporting Materials and Methods. Eluted proteins were precipitated by using methanol/chloroform and the pellet resuspended in 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate for tryptic digestion (sequencing grade modified trypsin, Promega, Madison, WI). Nano flow LC-MS/MS analysis was performed by using a LTQ mass spectrometer (Thermo Electron Corp.) employing automated data-dependent acquisition as described in Supplementary. Raw data were processed by using BioWorks 3.2 and TurboSEQUEST (Thermo Electron, San Jose, CA) and searched against the Arabidopsis genome supplemented with common contaminants (trypsin and keratins; sequences collated by Thermo Electron) with oxidized M as a variable modification. Peptide hits were filtered by Xcorr and charge state [xc (+1, 2, 3) 2.0, 2.5, 3.5] and protein hits by probability (1e −3). Apds2-free plants for flowering time assays were obtained from the progeny of lines that were homozygous for the esp mutant and hemizygous for Apds2 (described above). To exclude that the enhanced flowering phenotype was due to a background mutation, plants were assayed from multiple independent lines for each esp mutant. Flowering time was determined by counting the number of true leaves (rosette and cauline leaves) until emergence of the first florescence.
