!~ABS~! Recognition of pathogens by plants involves the coordinated efforts of molecular chaperones, disease resistance (R) proteins, and components of disease resistance signaling pathways. Characterization of events associated with pathogen perception in Arabidopsis thaliana has advanced understanding of molecular genetic mechanisms associated with disease resistance and protein interactions critical for the activation of resistance signaling. Regulation of R protein–mediated signaling in response to the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae in Arabidopsis involves the physical association of at least two R proteins with the negative regulator RPM1 INTERACTING PROTEIN4 (RIN4). While the RIN4-RPS2 (for RESISTANCE TO P. SYRINGAE2) and RIN4-RPM1 (for RESISTANCE TO P. SYRINGAE PV MACULICOLA1) signaling pathways exhibit differential mechanisms of activation in terms of effector action, the requirement for NON-RACE-SPECIFIC DISEASE RESISTANCE1 (NDR1) is shared. Using a yeast two-hybrid screen, followed by a series of coimmunoprecipitation experiments, we demonstrate that the RIN4–NDR1 interaction occurs on the cytoplasmically localized N-terminal portion of NDR1 and that this interaction is required for the activation of resistance signaling following infection by P. syringae expressing the Cys protease Type III effector protein AvrRpt2. We demonstrate that like RPS2 and RPM1, NDR1 also associates with RIN4 in planta. We suggest that this interaction serves to further regulate activation of disease resistance signaling following recognition of P. syringae DC3000-AvrRpt2 by Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! RIN4 was identified in a yeast two-hybrid screen using the bacterial effector protein AvrB as bait and subsequently shown to interact with RPM1 (CITATION). Given the involvement of RIN4 in disease resistance signaling in Arabidopsis, we sought to identify RIN4-interacting proteins through screening a CytoTrap Arabidopsis cDNA library, with the aim of uncovering additional proteins required for disease resistance. Using RIN4 as a C-terminal bait fusion protein (i.e., pSos-RIN4), we screened 106 yeast colonies comprising an Arabidopsis cDNA library generated from various combinations of pathogen and mock-inoculated Arabidopsis genotypes. As shown in Figure 1 , we identified a specific interaction between RIN4 and NDR1. Isolation of rescued cDNAs and recapitulation of the interaction was confirmed by reconstructing the NDR1 (i.e., prey) target plasmid (top panel). Serial dilutions of yeast clones expressing the pSos-RIN4 bait construct and pMyrNDR1 prey construct revealed a specific interaction when compared with MAFB/α positive and MAFB/Lamin-C negative controls (Figure 1, middle and bottom panels, respectively). [[FIGURE]] While successful in identifying a specific interaction between two well-characterized components of resistance signaling in Arabidopsis by a yeast two-hybrid screen, the significance of this association requires in planta confirmation. To do this, we chose to further investigate the NDR1–RIN4 interaction by the expression of epitope-tagged NDR1 and RIN4 constructs using Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transient gene expression in Nicotiana benthamiana. Previous studies have demonstrated the use of this heterologous expression system in its applicability toward characterizing a number of disease-associated proteins in a variety of plant-pathogen systems (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As shown in Figure 2A , following transient coexpression of both genes for 40 h in N. benthamiana leaves by Agrobacterium infection, we observed that both HA:NDR1 and T7:RIN4 can be shown to associate in a series of coimmunoprecipitation experiments. Moreover, using HA:NDR1 epitope–tagged complemented ndr1-1 mutant Arabidopsis plants (CITATION), we were successful in demonstrating a specific interaction between RIN4 and NDR1 (Figure 2B). The in planta coimmunoprecipitation experiment validates our initial yeast two-hybrid results demonstrating that NDR1 and RIN4 physically associate in planta. [[FIGURE]] Previous work identified the C terminus of RIN4 as being required for both regulation of and association with RPS2 (CITATION). To further characterize the NDR1–RIN4 interaction, we used the RIN4 deletion constructs described in our previous study to identify regions of RIN4 that are required for its interaction with NDR1. Using in planta coimmunoprecipitation experiments as an assay to monitor the NDR1–RIN4 interaction, we determined that only the C terminus of RIN4 was required for its association with NDR1, as was observed in the case of the RIN4–RPS2 interaction (CITATION). As shown in Figure 3 , transient expression and coimmunoprecipitation of epitope-tagged NDR1 and RIN4 deletion constructs (i.e., RIN4-N and RIN4-C) in N. benthamiana by transient Agrobacterium infection revealed a reciprocal coimmunoprecipitation with HA and T7 antibodies specific to NDR1 and RIN4-C, respectively. Coinfiltration and expression of HA:NDR1 and T7:RIN4-N by Agrobacterium in N. benthamiana did not result in the reciprocal coimmunoprecipitation of either protein (Figure 3, top two panels). [[FIGURE]] Previous work in our laboratory showed that the terminal nine amino acid residues in RIN4 are required for its association with RPS2 (CITATION). Additional work in other laboratories has since revealed that the requirement for these residues extends beyond the physical coordination of the protein–protein interaction and likely involves posttranslational modifications that function to target RIN4 to the plasma membrane (CITATION; CITATION). As an extension of these experiments, we have also demonstrated that epitope-tagged peptides resembling the RIN4 cleavage products generated by exposure to AvrRpt2 did not inhibit the RPS2 hypersensitive response (CITATION). To determine if the mechanism of RIN4–NDR1 association/disassociation is similar to that of RPS2, we investigated whether any of the RIN4 cleavage products were capable of associating with NDR1 in planta. To test this model, we transiently coexpressed, individually, the three T7-epitope tagged proteins resembling the RIN4 cleavage products (i.e., CLV-1, CLV-2, and CLV-3; Figure 4A ) together with NDR1 in N. benthamiana by Agrobacterium transient expression and performed coimmunoprecipitation experiments to determine the extent of protein–protein associations. As shown in Figure 4B, none of the RIN4 cleavage products immunoprecipitated RPS2 in planta, consistent with our results in the RIN4-RPS2 abrogation experiments (CITATION). However, as shown in Figure 4B, coexpression of the third RIN4 cleavage product together with NDR1 resulted in a reciprocal pull-down by coimmunoprecipitation. Neither CLV-1 nor CLV-2 was able to immunoprecipitate NDR1 in planta (Figure 4B). [[FIGURE]] Our working hypothesis is that NDR1 assumes a double anchor membrane conformation: anchored at the N terminus by a transmembrane domain (residues 19 to 34) and at the C terminus by the addition of the GPI anchor (CITATION). If our working model for NDR1's topology is correct, the 18 N-terminal amino acids of NDR1 are the only residues that lie within the cytoplasm and thus are positioned to interact with the cytoplasmically facing plasma membrane–localized RIN4. To test this hypothesis, we performed a stepwise deletion analysis of NDR1 to monitor for a loss in RIN4 interaction. As shown in Figure 5A , deletion of the first two residues (i.e., Met-Asn; NDR1Δ2) did not affect the ability of NDR1 to interact with RIN4. However, when the first four residues were deleted (i.e., Met-Asn-Asn-Gln; NDR1Δ4) from NDR1, the ability to interact with RIN4 was lost, as monitored by coimmunoprecipitation experiments in N. benthamiana transient expression assays. Additional deletions of Δ8, Δ10, Δ16, and Δ20 amino acids from the N terminus of NDR1 revealed an absence of coimmunoprecipitation with RIN4 (data not shown). Using homologous expression of T7-tagged NDR1 and NDR1Δ4 in Arabidopsis showed a loss of coimmunoprecipitation with RIN4 when the first four amino acids were deleted from the N terminus, again consistent with the data obtained in the heterologous N. benthamiana expression system (Figure 5B). Furthermore, localization of NDR1Δ2 and NDR1Δ4 mirrored wild-type membrane localization, thereby removing the possibility that errant localization was responsible for a loss in protein interaction (Figure 5C). [[FIGURE]] Once we had determined that the first four residues within the N terminus of NDR1 were required for RIN4 association, we undertook a PCR-based Ala-scanning approach to define the precise location of the required residues. As shown in Figure 6 , individual changes within the first eight amino acids of NDR1 to Ala revealed a pattern of RIN4 interaction consistent with the results of our deletion analyses described above. Infiltration of N. benthamiana with Agrobacterium expressing T7:NDR1 and HA:RIN4 constructs with the indicated amino acid changes in NDR1 suggests a requirement for the Gln residue at position four (i.e., Q4) and Asn at position five (i.e., N5) for association with RIN4. Individual changes to Ala in residues 1 to 3 and 6 to 8 did not affect coimmunoprecipitation of NDR1 with RIN4. As expected, changes of both Gln and Asn to Ala residues resulted in a loss of RIN4 interactions (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] NDR1 has been shown to be required for the activation of resistance mediated by at least three members of the CC-NB-LRR class of resistance proteins in Arabidopsis: RPS2, RPM1, and RPS5. RIN4, however, is required for the activity of only two: RPS2 and RPM1. To investigate the requirement of the NDR1–RIN4 association and to determine if this interaction influences disease resistance meditated by RPS2, we monitored the activation of resistance signaling following P. syringae infection using the complementation strategy outlined in Figure 7 . A dual-promoter binary vector system (Figure 7A) was constructed whereby native promoter-driven RPS2:HA and various T7:NDR1 derivatives described above could be transformed into rps2/ndr1-1 plants and tested for their ability to activate resistance to P. syringae expressing AvrRpt2 as well as the cognate bacterial effector proteins of the resistance proteins RPS5 and RPM1. Confirmation of T-DNA integration (Figure 7B), induction of the hypersensitive response following pathogen infection (Figure 7C), and induction of R protein–mediated disease resistance (Figure 7D) collectively validates use of the dual-promoter epitope-tag Arabidopsis system for further studying the RIN4-RPS2-NDR1 protein associations. As shown in Figure 7C, the complemented (i.e., RPS2:HA/T7:NDR1) ndr1-1/rps2 mutant was capable of initiating a hypersensitive response associated with a high-density P. syringae inoculation of and the corresponding recognition of AvrRpt2 (RPS2), AvrB (RPM1), and AvrPphB (RPS5), all three of which require the function of NDR1. Interestingly, in agreement with our coimmunoprecipitation data (Figure 5), the RPS2:HA/T7:NDR1Δ4 construct did not complement the ndr1-1/rps2 mutation, as indicated by the absence of an AvrRpt2-RPS2–induced hypersensitive response. [[FIGURE]] To quantify bacterial growth, and thereby assess the activation of resistance following pathogen perception in the wild type and NDR1Δ4 complemented lines described above, wild-type Columbia (Col-0), RPS2:HA/T7:NDR1, and RPS2:HA/T7:NDR1Δ4 transgenic plants were infected with P. syringae expressing the cognate effector proteins of the R proteins requiring NDR1 function (i.e., RPS2, RPM1, and RPS5). As shown in Figure 7D, wild-type Col-0 plants showed a typical pattern of resistance 4 d after inoculation, whereas ndr1-1/rps2 plants were fully susceptible to P. syringae expressing AvrRpt2, AvrB, and AvrPphB. Full complementation of wild-type levels of resistance were observed in plants transformed with the RPS2:HA/T7:NDR1 construct. Interestingly, Arabidopsis plants expressing RPS2:HA/T7:NDR1Δ4 showed a degree of susceptibility corresponding to 1 log higher growth when inoculated with P. syringae expressing AvrRpt2. This pattern of susceptibility is consistent with the RIN4 overexpression phenotype observed by CITATION, which has been suggested to correspond to a saturation in the negative regulation of the corresponding R protein, resulting in a lag in the activation of resistance (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As shown in Figure 7D, resistance to P. syringae expressing AvrB (RPM1) and AvrPphB (RPS5) was unaffected, irrespective of the mutation status (i.e., Δ4) of NDR1.
!~MM~! Escherichia coli DH5α strains were grown on Luria-Bertani agar medium, as were binary constructs mobilized in Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58-C1, at 37°C and 28°C, respectively. Binary vector constructs were mobilized into A. tumefaciens by triparental matings according to standard protocols. Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain cdc25H was maintained on YPAD medium, except when harboring two-hybrid plasmids, in which case strains were handled according to the manufacturer's specifications (Stratagene). Nicotiana benthamiana plants were grown at 24°C in a growth cabinet under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle. Total RNA used in the construction of the Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA library was isolated from a variety of source tissue, including both pathogen-inoculated and water (mock)-inoculated plant tissues. Arabidopsis genotypes used as source material for total RNA included wild-type Col, ndr1-1, rps2/101c, rpm1-1, rps5-1, and rps4. Pathogen treatments included 0-, 2-, 4-, 6-, 8-, 24-, and 48-h low-density (i.e., 104 cfu/mL) inoculations, individually, with Pseudomonas syringae expressing empty vector (pVSP61), AvrRpt2, AvrRpm1, AvrB, AvrPphB, and AvrRpm1. Total RNA isolated from each genotype (either treated or mock inoculated) was pooled and used as a source for mRNA. An Arabidopsis CytoTrap yeast two-hybrid library was constructed according to the manufacturer's specifications (Stratagene). Total RNA was isolated using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen). Total RNA was further processed, and template mRNA was isolated using an mRNA isolation kit (Stratagene). A full-length cDNA clone corresponding to the open reading frame of RIN4 was amplified by PCR with a 5′ BamHI site and a 3′ NotI site to facilitate cloning into the bait vector pSos. The resultant plasmid was a 5′, in-frame fusion with hSos. Expression of the hSos-RIN4 fusion was confirmed by protein gel blot analysis using a monoclonal antibody raised against hSos (BD Transduction Laboratories; data not shown). Library transformation, replication, and yeast two-hybrid screening was performed according to the manufacturer's specifications. The 1 × 106 yeast colonies were screened. Confirmation of positive interactions was verified by plasmid isolation, sequencing, reconstruction of the rescued prey construct, and recapitulation of the yeast transformation and screening by directed (bait + rescued prey) analysis. Positive and negative control plasmids were used according to the manufacturer's specifications. QuickChange PCR was performed as previously described (CITATION). DNA primers used for NDR1 and RIN4 Ala scanning PCR were as follows: NDR1M1A forward 5′-GCTAATAATCAAAATGAAGACACAGAAGGT-3′ and reverse 5′-ACCTTCTGTGTCTTCATTTTGATTATTAGC-3′; NDR1N2A forward 5′-ATGGCTAATCAAAATGAAGACACAGAAGGTGGT-3′ and reverse 5′-ACCACCTTCTGTGTCTTCATTTTGATTAGCCAT-3′; NDR1N3A forward 5′-ATGAATGCTCAAAATGAAGACACAGAAGGTGGTCGA-3′ and reverse 5′-TCGACCACCTTCTGTGTCTTCATTTTGAGCATTCAT-3′; NDR1Q4A forward 5′-ATGAATAATACTAATGAAGACACAGAAGGTGGTCGAAACTGT-3′ and reverse 5′-ACAGTTTCGACCACCTTCTGTGTCTTCATTAGTATTATTCAT-3′; NDR1N5A forward 5′-ATGAATAATCAAGCTGAAGACACAGAAGGTGGTCGAAACTGTTGT-3′ and reverse 5′-ACAACAGTTTCGACCACCTTCTGTGTCTTCAGCTTGATTATTCAT-3′; NDR1E6A forward 5′-ATGAATAATCAAAATGCTGACACAGAAGGTGGTCGAAACTGTTGTACTTG-3′ and reverse 5′-CAAGTACAACAGTTTCGACCACCTTCTGTGTCAGCATTTTGATTATTCAT-3′; NDR1D7A forward 5′-AATCAAAATGAAGCTACAGAAGGTGGTCGAAACTGTTGTACTTGC-3′ and reverse 5′-GCAAGTACAACAGTTTCGACCACCTTCTCTAGCTTCATTTTGATT-3′; and NDR1T8A forward 5′-CAAAATGAAGACGCTGAAGGTGGTCGAAACTGTTGTACTTGC-3′ and reverse 5′-GCAAGTACAACAGTTTCGACCACCTTCAGCGTCTTCATTTTG-3′. Sequence of all DNA constructs was confirmed by automated DNA sequencing using an ABI-3100 capillary DNA sequencer (Applied Biosystems). Agrobacterium strain C58-C1 (pCH32) carrying the gene of interest was infiltrated into leaves of N. benthamiana essentially as described by CITATION. Agrobacterium was grown overnight at 28°C on Luria-Bertani agar containing 100 μg/mL rifampicin, 25 μg/mL kanamycin, and 5 μg/mL tetracycline. Cells were resuspended in induction medium (10 mM MES, pH 5.6, 10 mM MgCl2, and 150 μM acetosyringone) and incubated at room temperature for 1.5 h before inoculation. For HA- and T7-tagged NDR1 and RIN4 constructs, Agrobacterium was infiltrated at a final OD600 of 0.4. Agrobacterium RPS2:HA constructs were infiltrated at a final OD600 of 0.075. For transient expression, RPS2, NDR1, RIN4, and the NDR1/RIN4 deletion constructs were expressed from a modified pE1776 with a chimeric octopine and manopine synthase promoter engineered into a pBIN derivative (CITATION). The RPS2:HA/T7:NDR1 T-DNA construct pRPS2:HA/T7:NDR1 was constructed by first cloning the Gateway (Invitrogen) ccdB cassette into the T4 DNA polymerase–filled single SacI site flanking the promoter end of the RPS2:HA complementing construct p4104-HA (CITATION) to create the destination vector pRPS2:HA-attR1-attR2. For the construction of the NDR1 portion of the construct, a native promoter-driven, epitope-tagged (i.e., T7) NDR1 construct was cloned into the Gateway entry vector pENTR/D TOPO. To generate this construct, a C-terminal region including the native terminator located on a 1401-bp HindIII and DraI fragment from an NDR1-containing cosmid (CITATION) was cloned into pBlueScript KS+ HindIII and T4 filled-in SalI sites. This allowed the fragment to be recloned as a NotI-XhoI fragment into a modified pENTR/D TOPO containing an internal XhoI site. The native NDR1 promoter clone with the NdeI site introduced at the start codon (CITATION) was cloned from pCR2.1 as a NotI-EcoRI fragment and moved into the NotI and EcoRI sites in pENTR/D TOPO. The T7 epitope tag (MASMTGGQQMG) was constructed as an NdeI and SalI fragment and cloned into the NdeI and SalI sites in pENTR/D TOPO, with the two NDR1 fragments, to create pENTR/D T7-SalI-HindIII-NDR1. The NDR1 N-terminal SalI and HindIII fragments from both pMD1-T7:NDR1 and pMD1-T7:NDR1Δ4 were recloned in pENTR/D T7-SalI-HindIII-NDR1 to create pENTR/D T7:NDR1 and pENTR/D T7:NDR1Δ4. These two NDR1 native constructs were then moved into the native RPS2:HA destination construct with LR clonase (Invitrogen) to create the two T-DNA constructs pRPS2:HA/T7:NDR1 and pRPS2:HA/T7:NDR1Δ4. Both constructs were introduced to Agrobacterium C58-C1 using triparental mating (CITATION) and transformed into rps2 ndr1-1 double mutant Arabidopsis plants (CITATION) by the floral dip method (CITATION). Kanamycin-resistant T1 plants were selected on Murashige and Skoog agar containing 75 μg/mL kanamycin. Four independent lines for each construct were identified as homozygous for a single transgene locus by segregation of kanamycin resistance. Subsequent lines were screened for complementation by pathogen inoculation and protein expression by anti-HA and anti-T7 immunoblots. PCR was used to confirm that these lines were homozygous for the ndr1-1 mutation using NDR1-specific primers as follows: NDR1 forward minus nucleotide 145 (5′-GTGTGTCCTACTGAGTC-3′) and NDR1 reverse plus nucleotide 103 (5′-AGGTGAGACCAGCTGTGA-3′). Integration of the RPS2:HA transgene was monitored by PCR using the following primers: RPS2fw2550 (5′-CTAGGGATCTGCCAGAACT-3′) and RPS2term-137 (5′-TCCTGCTACTTATGAATGGACA-3′). Following Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression for 22 h, N. benthamiana leaves (∼0.3 g) were harvested and ground to a powder in liquid nitrogen. Ground tissues were resuspended in 3.0 mL of IP buffer (50 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 50 mM NaCl, 10 mM EDTA, 5 mM DTT, 0.1% Triton X-100, and 1× Complete Protease Inhibitor [Roche]). The crude lysates were then spun at 20,000g for 15 min at 4°C. Following centrifugation, 1 mL of supernatant was used for each immunoprecipitation. Five microliters of either anti-HA (Covance) or anti-T7 (Novagen) antibody was used to capture the epitope-tagged proteins. Following 1 h of incubation at 4°C, immunocomplexes were collected by the addition of 50 mL of protein G Sepharose-4 fast flow beads (Amersham) and incubation end-over-end for 4 h at 4°C. Immunocomplexes were then washed four times with 1 mL wash buffer (IP buffer + 0.2% Triton X-100). After washing, the beads were resuspended in 50 mL of 3× SDS-PAGE loading buffer, boiled for 5 min, and briefly centrifuged, and the supernatant was removed for SDS-PAGE and protein gel blot analysis. Protein samples analyzed for experiments other than coimmunoprecipitations were isolated by homogenizing corresponding leaf disks in 3× Laemmli buffer (CITATION) in a microfuge tube using a Kontes pestle (Fisher Scientific). Protein samples were separated by SDS-PAGE on 12% polyacrylamide gels and transferred for immunoblot analysis by electroblotting to nitrocellulose membranes according to standard protocols. Membranes were probed with anti-HA-HRP (Roche) or anti-T7-peroxidase (Novagen) to detect HA- and T7-epitope tagged proteins, respectively. All antibodies were used as recommended by their respective manufacturers. RIN4 polyclonal antiserum, where noted, was used at a 1:5000 dilution, as previously described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Sequence data for all cDNAs from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: RIN4, NM_113411; RPS2, NM_118742; NDR1, AF021346; AvrRpt2, Z21715; AvrPphB; Q4LBP1; AvrRpm1, YP_233840.1; and AvrRPS4, AAB51082.
