!~ABS~! The adverse effects of high salt on plants include Na+ toxicity and hyperosmotic and oxidative stresses. The plasma membrane-localized Na+/H+ antiporter SOS1 functions in the extrusion of toxic Na+ from cells and is essential for plant salt tolerance. We report here that, under salt or oxidative stress, SOS1 interacts through its predicted cytoplasmic tail with RCD1, a regulator of oxidative-stress responses. Without stress treatment, RCD1 is localized in the nucleus. Under high salt or oxidative stress, RCD1 is found not only in the nucleus but also in the cytoplasm. Like rcd1 mutants, sos1 mutant plants show an altered sensitivity to oxidative stresses. The rcd1mutation causes a decrease in salt tolerance and enhances the salt-stress sensitivity of sos1 mutant plants. Several genes related to oxidative-stress tolerance were found to be regulated by both RCD1 and SOS1. These results reveal a previously uncharacterized function of a plasma membrane Na+/H+ antiporter in oxidative-stress tolerance and shed light on the cross-talk between the ion-homeostasis and oxidative-stress detoxification pathways involved in plant salt tolerance.
!~RES~! To try to understand the role of the SOS1 C-terminal tail, we carried out yeast two-hybrid screening to identify proteins that interact with the tail sequence. The C-terminal fragment (CT) of SOS1 cloned in the pAS2 vector was used as bait to screen a prey library. Only one positive clone was isolated, and subsequent DNA sequence analysis identified it as RCD1. Deletions of part of the WWE domain (RCD1-P1 and RCD1-P2) did not substantially affect the interaction with SOS1CT (FIG-REF A), suggesting that the WWE domain is not necessary for the interaction. SRO1 (similar to RCD one) is the most closely related member in the RCD1 protein family and has 76% amino acid similarity to RCD1. Unlike RCD1, SRO1 did not interact with SOS1CT (FIG-REF A). The result shows that the SOS1 C-terminal tail interacts specifically with RCD1. [[FIGURE]] In an attempt to delineate sequences in the SOS1CT that may be responsible for interaction with RCD1, five deletions of the SOS1 C-terminal tail were generated and cloned into the pAS2 vector. The yeast strain Y190 was transformed with all of the combinations of the SOS1CT deletions and the RCD1-P1 prey. The β-galactosidase filter assay showed that both ends (between amino acids 440–806 and 936-1103) of the SOS1CT are important for the protein to interact with RCD1 (FIG-REF B). To confirm the interaction of SOS1CT with RCD1, an in vitro pull-down assay was carried out. SOS1CT labeled with [35S]methionine was incubated with RCD1-GST protein (FIG-REF C). The proteins pulled down by RCD1-GST were loaded onto an SDS/PAGE gel. The autoradiograph showed a single strong band corresponding to the size of SOS1CT. In contrast, GST alone did not pull down the labeled SOS1CT. This experiment, together with yeast two-hybrid studies, strongly suggests that SOS1CT interacts with the RCD1 protein. Results obtained from interaction studies in yeast and in vitro prompted us to investigate whether such interaction occurs in vivo in plants. We used bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) to directly visualize the interaction in living plant cells. Whereas protoplasts transformed with pUCSpyneGW -SOS1/pUCSpyceGW vector or pUCSpyceGW -RCD1/pUCSpyneGW vector produced no fluorescence (FIG-REF D a and b), a strong signal was observed when pUCSpyneGW -SOS1 was coexpressed with pUCSpyceGW -RCD1 (FIG-REF Dc). These data, together with the in vitro results, demonstrate that SOS1 can physically interact with RCD1 through its C-terminal cytosolic tail. An analysis of the RCD1 amino acid sequence indicated the presence of three potential nuclear localization signals (NLS): KKRKR, KRRR, and KKHR (CITATION). This finding suggests that RCD1 might be localized in the nucleus. However, SOS1 is localized at the plasma membrane (CITATION). It would thus appear not physically possible for SOS1 to interact with RCD1 in vivo in plants. We therefore studied the localization of RCD1 in plants. We made yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)- and GFP-tagged RCD1 fusions that were expressed under the control of a constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. Transient studies in Arabidopsis involving microprojectile bombardment of leaves or PEG-mediated transformation of mesophyll protoplasts with the RCD1-YFP plasmid construct showed that RCD1 is present predominantly in the nucleus under control conditions (FIG-REF A). Further studies in transgenic seedlings expressing RCD1-GFP also supported this observation (FIG-REF B). Root cells from stably transformed RCD1-GFP plants showed green fluorescence in the nuclei (FIG-REF B). [[FIGURE]] To identify the sequence motif involved in the nuclear import of RCD1 protein and to further confirm its nuclear localization, mutations were introduced in the three predicted NLSs of RCD1. We found that K-to-A and R-to-A mutations in NLS1 or NLS2 reduced RCD1 localization in the nucleus, because the fusion protein was present in the nucleus as well as cytoplasm (FIG-REF C b and c), unlike the protoplasts transformed with unmutated RCD1-YFP (WT), which exhibited localization in the nucleus only (FIG-REF Ca). However, K-to-A and H-to-A mutations in NLS3 did not alter the nuclear localization of the fusion protein (FIG-REF Cd). These results confirm the predominant nuclear localization of RCD1 under unstressed conditions and suggest that NLS1 and NLS2, but not NLS3, are responsible for the nuclear localization of RCD1. We then investigated the localization of RCD1 protein under stress conditions. Leaves or protoplasts transiently transformed with RCD1-YFP and RCD1-GFP transgenic seedlings were exposed to either NaCl or H2O2 stress. Amazingly, we found that, when treated with salt (75 mM NaCl for 12 h for seedling roots, 200 mM NaCl for 6 h for leaves and for 2 h for protoplasts) or oxidative stress (1.5 mM H2O2 for 6 h for seedlings and for 2 h for protoplasts and 10 mM H2O2 for 6 h for leaves) the RCD1 fusion proteins accumulated in not only the nucleus but also the cytoplasm near the cell periphery (FIG-REF A and B). We carried out a time-course analysis of the stress-induced redistribution of RCD1 in transiently transformed Arabidopsis leaves. It was found that RCD1 localizes to the cell periphery as early as 45 min after exposure to H2O2 (FIG-REF A). We then determined what happens to the RCD1 protein localized to the cell periphery after removal of stress. Arabidopsis leaves bombarded with RCD1-YFP were exposed to 10 mM H2O2 for 3 h to allow protein accumulation near the cell periphery (FIG-REF B). Then stress was removed by placing the leaves in water for 2 h and localization of RCD1-YFP was observed. It is obvious that 2 h after stress removal, the protein was detectable only in the nucleus, and little fluorescence was observed elsewhere. [[FIGURE]] We also investigated the localization of RCD1 in sos1–1 mutant cells. Transient expression of RCD1-YFP in leaves of sos1 mutants showed that RCD1 is localized in the nucleus under control conditions (FIG-REF C). When sos1 leaves bombarded with RCD1-YFP were exposed to H2O2 stress, distribution of the protein was similar to that in WT plants (FIG-REF C). These results indicate that SOS1 is not required for the subcellular redistribution of RCD1 under stress. We studied the extent of phenotypic similarity among sos1–1 (CITATION), rcd1–1 (CITATION), and rcd1–3 (isolated in this study). Previous studies in our laboratory have shown that sos1–1 mutants are hypersensitive to NaCl stress (CITATION). Also, it is known that rcd1–1 exhibits resistance against MV but is sensitive to apoplastic ROS imposed by exposure to ozone (CITATION). For the comparison, we tested the effects of salt and different oxidative stresses on seed germination and seedling growth of the mutants. Seeds were plated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with NaCl, H2O2, or MV, and seed germination was assessed as emergence of green cotyledons after 7 days of plating. As expected, sos1–1 seeds showed very strong germination inhibition (≈96%) by 80 mM NaCl (FIG-REF A). The rcd1–1 mutant seeds were also inhibited strongly (73%). In comparison, their WTs (Col-gl1 and Col-0) were inhibited only weakly (17% and 11% inhibition, respectively) by 80 mM NaCl. The response of the two mutants to oxidative stress was assessed by exposing them to MV, a herbicide known to function as a free-radical generator in chloroplasts. With 0.25 μM MV (FIG-REF A), rcd1–1 was inhibited by only 4% compared with 90% for its WT. sos1–1, on the other hand, was inhibited by 57%,compared with 82% inhibition of its WT. We tested the effect of another oxidative stress agent, H2O2. With 2.5 mM H2O2 (FIG-REF A), sos1–1 showed considerably more inhibition (56%) compared with its WT (19%). The rcd1–1 mutant (49% inhibition) was also more sensitive compared with its WT (12% inhibition). Thus, in the germination tests, the two mutants showed similar trends in their responses to salt and oxidative stresses. [[FIGURE]] We also tested the growth of 5-day-old seedlings under different stress conditions. Seeds were germinated on MS agar medium for 5 days, and the seedlings were transferred to MS medium containing 75 mM NaCl, 1.5 μM MV, or 5 mM H2O2, and photographs were taken after 15 days (FIG-REF B). As expected, the sos1–1 mutant seedlings showed hypersensitivity to salt stress, because most of the seedlings died. The rcd1–1 seedlings, although not as sensitive as the sos1–1 mutant, also exhibited slower growth and increased damage compared with the WT (FIG-REF B, Col-0). H2O2 at 7.5 mM affected both mutants; the mutants were more sensitive than WT seedlings (FIG-REF B). When the seedlings were exposed to MV stress, WT seedlings showed complete bleaching, but both mutants were able to retain a trace of chlorophyll while accumulating considerable anthocyanin (FIG-REF B). The above tests show that rcd1 and sos1 mutants exhibit similar responses to salt and oxidative stress. To test whether there is any genetic interaction between the RCD1 and SOS1 genes, we constructed a sos1 rcd1 double mutant by crossing sos1–1 with rcd1–3 and tested the sensitivity of the double mutant to salt and oxidative stresses. The rcd1–3 mutant is a T-DNA allele that exhibits responses to different stresses similarly to rcd1–1 (FIG-REF B and C and data not shown). The single mutants were only slightly more sensitive to 40 mM NaCl than the WT (FIG-REF B, Col gl1), but the double mutant showed a strong sensitivity (FIG-REF C). Therefore, there was an additive effect of the two mutations on salt tolerance. In contrast, under oxidative stresses (H2O2 or MV), the double mutant behaved just like the rcd1–3 mutant, and no additive effect was seen (FIG-REF C). Salt stress is known to cause the accumulation of ROS. The ROS levels in sos1–1 and rcd1–1 mutants were examined after salt stress for 24 h (FIG-REF). Without NaCl treatment, there was no significant accumulation of ROS in either the WT or the single mutants. The sos1rcd1 double mutant exhibited slight accumulation of ROS under control conditions. In the roots of NaCl-treated plants, substantial levels of ROS were detected, particularly in the sos1–1 and sos1rcd1 mutants (FIG-REF A). The levels of ROS were quantified in terms of relative fluorescence, and the data show that the sos1–1 and rcd1–3 mutants accumulated higher levels of ROS compared with the WT (FIG-REF B). The double mutant appeared similar to sos1–1 in the level of ROS accumulation. The results suggest that SOS1 and RCD1 are important in controlling ROS accumulation under salt stress. [[FIGURE]] If RCD1 interacts with SOS1 and functions in salt tolerance, it should be expressed in the same tissues as SOS1, or, at least, the expression patterns of the two should overlap. It is known that SOS1 is strongly expressed in the vasculatures of roots, stems, and leaves and in the root tip, particularly at the epidermis (CITATION). To examine the tissue-specific expression pattern of RCD1, we transformed Arabidopsis with an RCD1 promoter-GUS construct. Histochemical staining of transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings showed that RCD1 is ubiquitously expressed, and the expression is particularly strong in the vasculatures and in the root tip and epidermis (FIG-REF A). The results indicate a similar pattern of expression for the RCD1 and SOS1 genes. [[FIGURE]] Superoxide dismutases (SODs) are enzymes critical for the detoxification of superoxide. The expression of genes for two Cu/Zn SODs (the cytoplasmic CSD1 and plastidic CSD2) and a FeSOD (plastidic) was examined. We found that both Cu/Zn SOD genes were expressed to higher levels in the sos1–1 and rcd1–1 mutants compared with the WT (FIG-REF B). However, the FeSOD gene showed lower levels of expression in the two mutants. We also analyzed the expression of ENH1, a gene encoding a rubredoxin-like protein. In anaerobic bacteria, rubredoxins function in ROS detoxification by serving as electron donors that divert electron flow from the electron-transport chain to superoxide-detoxification enzymes (CITATION). Mutations in ENH1 cause ROS accumulation and enhance the salt-stress sensitivity of the sos3 mutant (J.Z., Y. D. Koo, F. E. Jenney, Jr., M. W. W. Adams, J.-K. Z., D. J. Yun, P. M. Hasegawa, and R. A. Bressan, unpublished work). Interestingly, ENH1 was expressed at lower levels in both the sos1–1 and rcd1–1 mutants (FIG-REF B). These results suggest that SOS1 and RCD1 control a common set of genes that are important for oxidative-stress responses.
!~MM~! For seed germination assays, seeds of WT and mutant Arabidopsis were sown on MS plates containing 0.6% agar and 3% sucrose supplemented with NaCl, H2O2, or MV. The seeds were stratified at 4°C for 2 days and then transferred to 22°C under continuous light for germination and growth. Seed germination was determined as emergence of green cotyledons. To study the effect of different stresses on seedling growth and development, 5-day-old seedlings of WT and mutants were transferred onto either MS agar plates or MS agar plates containing different concentrations of NaCl, H2O2, or MV. Ten-day-old seedlings grown on MS agar medium were used for Northern blot analysis as described (CITATION). Seven-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings were treated with salt stress (200 mM NaCl solution prepared in half-strength MS medium containing 1% sucrose) for 24 h. Seedlings were washed and stained with 25 μM 5-(and -6)-chloromethyl-2′,7′-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate, acetyl ester (CM-H2DCFDA; Molecular Probes, Carlsbad, CA) for 15 min, following the protocol of Shin and Schachtman (CITATION). Roots were then cut and washed thoroughly and viewed under a Leica (Leica Microsystems, Wetzlar, Germany) SP2 laser scanning confocal microscope. All images were scanned under same conditions, such as laser power, gain, offset, pinhole, and zoom. For quantification of ROS in roots, fluorescence was measured at three different positions along the root length by using a Leica LCSlite and its mean was calculated. For each set of experiments, at least six seedlings were analyzed. The C-terminal cytosolic tail of SOS1 (corresponding to amino acids 440-1146) was amplified by PCR and cloned in-frame in pAS2 to obtain the bait plasmid, pAS2-SOS1CT. The screening of pACT plasmid library CD4–10 was performed as described (CITATION). For interaction assays, bait and prey constructs were transformed into the Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain Y190. The transformants were grown overnight at 30°C in synthetic complete (SC) media lacking tryptophan, uracil, and leucine. Twenty microliters of the cell suspension containing ≈4 × 104 cells was dropped onto SC agar plates lacking tryptophan, uracil, and leucine, and the cells were grown for 2 days at 30°C. After colonies were transferred onto a nylon membrane (Hybond-N; Amersham, Buckinghamshire, U.K.), β-galactosidase (β-gal) filter assays were carried out as described (CITATION).  In vitro pull-down assays were carried out to confirm the physical interaction of SOS1CT and RCD1. SOS1CT was subcloned in pCITE4a for in vitro transcription and translation. In vitro transcription and translation were carried out in the presence of [35S]methionine by using the Quickcouple transcription and translation kit (Promega, Madison, WI) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Full-length RCD1 was cloned in pGex4T-1. RCD1-GST protein was purified from Escherichia coli by using affinity chromatography. Pull-down assay was carried out as described (CITATION). For in vivo interaction studies, the bimolecular fluorescence complementation method (CITATION) was used. pUCSpyce and pUCSpyne (CITATION) were converted into Gateway-compatible vectors (named as pUCSpyceGW and pUCSpyneGW ) by using the gateway vector conversion kit (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). RCD1 and SOS1 were cloned in pUCSpyceGW and pUCSpyneGW , respectively, by using LR recombinase as per the manufacturer's instructions. The plasmid DNA constructs were delivered into protoplasts isolated from 12-day-old seedlings (CITATION). Protoplasts were also transformed with pUCSpyneGW +pUCSpyceGW -RCD1 and pUCSPpyneGW -SOS1+ pUCSpyceGW as controls. Transformed protoplasts were incubated at 23°C for 14 h, subjected to stress treatments (25 mM NaCl for 2 h, followed by the addition of 1.5 mM H2O2 for 2 h), and visualized for YFP signal.  RCD1 was cloned into the binary vector pEGAD downstream of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and was transformed into WT Arabidopsis plants. Roots from 5-day-old T2 transgenic seedlings were visualized under a confocal laser scanning microscope. For transient experiments, full-length RCD1 ORF was amplified by using the following primers: forward 5′-GGAAGATCTTCCATGGAAGCCAAGATCGTCAA-3′ and reverse 5′-CTAGTCTAGACTAGTGATATTCGTCATCATCATC-3′. After digestion with BglII and XbaI, the amplified product was cloned in a transient expression vector, pBS35SYFP, under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and fused in-frame to the N terminus of YFP. RCD1-YFP construct was delivered into either 20- to 25-day-old Arabidopsis leaves by microprojectile bombardment (CITATION) or protoplasts isolated from 3-week-old Arabidopsis plants by the PEG method, essentially as described (CITATION). To study the effect of mutation in NLSs of RCD1, site-directed mutagenesis was carried out by using the QuikChange II Site-Directed Mutagenesis kit (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). To obtain RCD1 promoter-GUS transgenic plants, a 2.0-kb promoter fragment was amplified from Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Col-0 genomic DNA by using the following primers: forward 5′-CCGGAATTCAGTAAACCCAATCACCAACACAG-3′ and reverse 5′-CCCAAGCTTCGTAGTCACGGCCGGTCCATC-3′. The PCR product was digested with EcoRI and HindIII and cloned into the pCAMBIA1391Z vector. T1 plants were stained in X-gluc buffer to visualize GUS expression.
