!~ABS~! Little is known about the dynamics and molecular components of plant prevacuolar compartments (PVCs) in the secretory pathway. Using transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) Bright-Yellow-2 (BY-2) cells expressing membrane-anchored yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) reporters marking Golgi or PVCs, we have recently demonstrated that PVCs are mobile multivesicular bodies defined by vacuolar sorting receptor proteins. Here, we demonstrate that Golgi and PVCs have different sensitivity in response to brefeldin A (BFA) treatment in living tobacco BY-2 cells. BFA at low concentrations (5–10 μg mL−1) induced YFP-marked Golgi stacks to form both endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi hybrid structures and BFA-induced aggregates, but had little effect on YFP-marked PVCs in transgenic BY-2 cells at both confocal and immunogold electron microscopy levels. However, BFA at high concentrations (50–100 μg mL−1) caused both YFP-marked Golgi stacks and PVCs to form aggregates in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Normal Golgi or PVC signals can be recovered upon removal of BFA from the culture media. Confocal immunofluorescence and immunogold electron microscopy studies with specific organelle markers further demonstrate that the PVC aggregates are distinct, but physically associated, with Golgi aggregates in BFA-treated cells and that PVCs might lose their internal vesicle structures at high BFA concentration. In addition, vacuolar sorting receptor-marked PVCs in root-tip cells of tobacco, pea (Pisum sativum), mung bean (Vigna radiata), and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) upon BFA treatment are also induced to form similar aggregates. Thus, we have demonstrated that the effects of BFA are not limited to endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi, but extend to PVC in the endomembrane system, which might provide a quick tool for distinguishing Golgi from PVC for its identification and characterization, as well as a possible new tool in studying PVC-mediated protein traffic in plant cells.
!~RES~! We have previously demonstrated that VSR proteins are markers for defining PVCs in plant cells (CITATION). More recently, we have developed two transgenic tobacco BY-2 cell lines expressing the Golgi reporter GONST1-YFP and the PVC reporter YFP BP-80 and demonstrated that these two reporters colocalized with ManI and VSR antibodies, respectively (CITATION). We further demonstrated that PVCs in tobacco BY-2 cells are MVBs that are marked by VSR proteins (CITATION). As a first step to compare reporter-marked Golgi to PVC directly in transgenic living tobacco BY-2 cells, we further developed a new transgenic tobacco BY-2 cell line expressing the GFP BP-80 fusion in which the GFP was used to replace the YFP in the previous YFP BP-80 construct (CITATION). Similar to the transgenic cell line expressing the Golgi marker GONST1-YFP (Fig. 1A , image 1), typical punctate fluorescent signals were detected from cells expressing the GFP BP-80 (Fig. 1A, image 2). Furthermore, organelles marked by either YFP BP-80 or GFP BP-80 were mostly (more than 92% based on calculation from more than 20 labeled cells) colocalized with VSR antibodies (Fig. 1A, images 3 and 4), indicating PVC localization of both YFP BP-80 and GFP BP-80 in transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells. [[FIGURE]] Golgi localization of the GONST1-YFP reporter and PVC localization of the GFP/YFP BP-80 reporter in transgenic BY-2 cells were further confirmed by immunoEM studies where GFP antibodies specifically labeled Golgi stacks (Fig. 1B, left image) or MVB (Fig. 1B, right image) in transgenic BY-2 cells expressing either Golgi or PVC reporters. Thus, similar to YFP BP-80, the GFP BP-80 reporter served as a tool for defining PVCs/MVBs in tobacco BY-2 cells. Therefore, from now on, both YFP BP-80 and GFP BP-80 cell lines were used as PVC markers in this study. BFA has been a useful tool in studying protein trafficking in the secretory pathway because this drug induced Golgi stacks to form enlarged compartments and prevented protein traffic from the ER to the Golgi (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Using transgenic tobacco BY-2 cell lines expressing Golgi and PVC reporters, we have recently demonstrated that Golgi and PVC had different sensitivity to wortmannin in which the drug induced the PVC, but not the Golgi, to dilate (CITATION). Because the Golgi and PVC are closely related organelles in the secretory pathway using transgenic BY-2 cell lines expressing PVC reporters, we therefore wanted to study the possible effects of BFA on PVCs. As a control, a transgenic cell line expressing the Golgi reporter was used. We first performed a dose-response experiment in which day 3 transgenic cell lines expressing either the Golgi or PVC reporters were incubated with various concentrations of BFA (from 0–100 μg mL−1) for 1 h before the treated cells were collected and used in confocal imaging. Day 3 BY-2 cells have been used in our drug treatment studies because these cells are at their log phase (CITATION) and XFP BP-80 fusions remain in PVCs as punctate patterns, which will be targeted to vacuoles as diffusion patterns at day 6 and day 7 (CITATION; CITATION). As shown in Figure 2 , in cells expressing the Golgi marker GONST1-YFP, typical enlarged compartments were observed in all cells treated with BFA at tested concentrations from 5 μg mL−1 to 100 μg mL−1 (Fig. 2A, arrows) and the average sizes of the visible BFA-induced aggregates were larger in cells treated with higher concentrations of BFA (Fig. 2C). To our surprise, in cells expressing the PVC marker YFP BP-80, BFA at high concentrations (50–100 μg mL−1) also induced the YFP-marked PVCs to form similar aggregates (Fig. 2, B [arrows] and C), even though low BFA concentrations (5–10 μg mL−1) did not have any visible effect on the size and number of YFP-marked PVCs (Fig. 2, C and D). Similar results were obtained when cells were treated with BFA with various concentrations for 2 h before confocal imaging (Supplemental Fig. S1). In addition, similar results were also obtained when another transgenic cell line expressing the PVC marker GFP BP-80 was used in a similar study (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] BFA at 5 to10 μg mL−1 induced the GONST1-YFP-marked Golgi to form aggregates in transgenic BY-2 cells (Fig. 2A); this result is consistent with several previous studies showing BFA-induced Golgi aggregation in different cell types (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). However, several other studies showed that BFA at such concentrations also induced GFP-marked Golgi to form ER patterns in both BY-2 and tobacco leaf cells (CITATION; CITATION). To find out the possible causes for such observed differences, we collected BY-2 cells at day 3 and day 6 for BFA treatment at 10 μg mL−1 for 1 h before confocal imaging. Day 3 and day 6 cells represent the log phase and the stationary phase, respectively (CITATION). As shown in Supplemental Figure S2, similar punctate patterns were observed in GONST1-YFP cells collected at either day 3 or day 6 (left images 1 and 6). At the end of 1-h BFA treatment, major aggregation patterns were observed from day 3 cells (left images 2 and 3) or day 2 cells (data not shown), but typical ER patterns were observed from BFA-treated day 6 cells (left images 5 and 6) or day 7 cells (data not shown), indicating that the physiological status of GONST1-YFP BY-2 cells may affect its responsive patterns to BFA treatment. However, when the same BFA treatments were performed using transgenic Man1-GFP BY-2 cells, ER patterns were observed from both BFA-treated day 3 (right images 2 and 3) and day 6 cells (right images 5 and 6). We do not know whether such observed differences are due to the difference between the trans-Golgi GONST1 and the cis-Golgi Man1 or to the different cell line used, but such differences shall not affect this study on the effects of BFA on PVCs/MVBs, where the GONST1-YFP cells were used as a control for XFP BP-80-marked PVC/MVBs in BY-2 cells (see “Discussion”). To study further the dynamics of the BFA-induced response of PVCs to high concentrations of BFA, a time-course study was carried out using these two transgenic cell lines. Day 3 individual transgenic cell lines were first incubated with BFA at 50 μg mL−1, a minimal concentration that induced PVCs to form aggregates (Fig. 2), followed by sample collection at indicated times after BFA treatment for confocal imaging. As shown in Figure 3A , in cells expressing the Golgi marker GONST1-YFP, enlarged BFA-induced aggregates were already detected 15 min after BFA treatment and these aggregated structures remained throughout the 2-h period of BFA treatment. In contrast, in cells expressing the PVC marker YFP BP-80, no BFA-induced YFP-marked aggregates were detected (Fig. 3, B and C) and the number of YFP-marked PVCs remained unchanged (Fig. 3D) during the first 30 min of BFA treatment, but similar aggregates were observed from 45 min after BFA treatment and these aggregates remained detectable thereafter for 2 h (Fig. 3, B and C). Thus, when comparing to Golgi stacks, a 30-min delay was observed for PVCs to form BFA-induced aggregates in response to BFA at 50 μg mL−1 under these conditions. [[FIGURE]] Low concentrations of BFA (typically between 5 and 10 μg mL−1) have been commonly used in studying protein trafficking and organelle dynamics in tobacco BY-2 cells (CITATION). In cells treated with BFA at this low concentration, the normal Golgi apparatus can usually recover upon removal of the drug from the culture medium. It is thus believed that the formation of BFA-induced compartments and ER-Golgi hybrids is not caused by the toxic effect of BFA on BY-2 cells. To find out whether BFA at 50 or 100 μg mL−1 is toxic to BY-2 cells and causes permanent damage, we performed a recovery study. Day 3 transgenic cells expressing the Golgi marker GONST1-YFP and PVC marker GFP BP-80 were treated with BFA at 100 μg mL−1 for 1 h, followed by washing off the BFA with fresh medium and then sampling collections at indicated time points upon recovery for confocal imaging. As shown in Figure 4A , in cells expressing the Golgi marker GONST1-YFP, fluorescent signals in both aggregates and an ER pattern were detected 15 and 45 min after BFA washing, which was then followed by disappearance of aggregates, reappearance of punctate signals, and weakening of the ER pattern after 1 h, and a fully punctate pattern was eventually observed after 2 h (Fig. 4A). These results indicate that the Golgi pattern can be recovered fully upon BFA removal. Similar patterns of changes were also detected in cells expressing the PVC marker GFP BP-80 upon removal of BFA and, again, normal punctate signals were recovered after 2 h (Fig. 4B). Furthermore, the BFA-treated BY-2 cells during the recovery period still looked normal as judged by their appearance in the differential interference contrast (DIC) images. Similar results were obtained when cells were treated with BFA at 50 μg mL−1 for 1 h, followed by washing off BFA in the recovery study in these two cell lines (Supplemental Fig. S3). These results demonstrate that BFA at 50 or 100 μg mL−1 did not permanently damage the treated BY-2 cells and that the BFA-induced aggregates from either Golgi or PVC organelles can be fully recovered into typical punctate patterns upon removal of BFA. Therefore, both Golgi apparatus and PVCs in transgenic BY-2 cells demonstrated the ability of recovery even in high doses of BFA treatment at 50 or 100 μg mL−1. [[FIGURE]] BFA at 5 to 10 μg mL−1 induced formation of aggregates that may represent ER-Golgi hybrid structures in BY-2 cells (CITATION). Our results thus far indicated that BFA at 50 or 100 μg mL−1 induced both Golgi apparatus and PVCs to form aggregates in transgenic BY-2 cells. Because both YFP-marked Golgi and PVC exhibit similar punctate patterns before BFA treatment and form similar aggregates in the presence of BFA, it is thus possible that the BFA-induced aggregates were derived from Golgi and PVC fusion. To find out whether BFA-induced aggregates derived from Golgi and PVC remain distinct or fusion upon BFA treatment, we performed the following immunofluorescent labeling study. Day 3 transgenic BY-2 cells expressing GONST1-YFP and YFP BP-80 reporters were treated with BFA at 50 μg mL−1 for 1 and 2 h, followed by fixation and labeled with VSR antibodies for subsequent confocal imaging. As shown in Figure 5 , the PVC/MVB marker VSR antibodies detected aggregates (red) in fixed transgenic cells expressing either the Golgi or PVC reporter (Fig. 5). Interestingly, in fixed transgenic BY-2 cells expressing the PVC marker YFP BP-80, the BFA-induced aggregates derived from the YFP-marked PVCs (green) colocalized (more than 90%) with aggregates detected by VSR antibodies (red; Fig. 5, image 1, arrowheads in merged image). In contrast, in fixed BY-2 cells expressing the Golgi marker GONST1-YFP, BFA-induced aggregates derived from the GONST1-YFP-marked Golgi (green) remained largely distinct (more than 90%) from the aggregates marked by the PVC marker VSR antibodies (red) at 1 or 2 h after BFA treatment (Fig. 5 images 2 and 3, arrowhead versus arrow in merged images). In addition, most of these aggregates derived from Golgi and PVC showed close association and tended to join together. These results demonstrate that BFA-induced aggregates derived from Golgi stacks are different from those derived from PVCs in BY-2 cells and that VSR proteins remain intact within the PVC-derived aggregates in BY-2 cells. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the nature and relationship of BFA-induced aggregates derived from Golgi and PVC in response to BFA treatment, we then performed a time-course experiment using transgenic cells expressing the Golgi marker GONST1-YFP. These transgenic cells were first incubated with BFA at 50 μg mL−1, followed by sample collection and fixation at an indicated time point before the fixed cells were used in labeling with VSR antibodies for subsequent confocal imaging analysis. As shown in Figure 6 , BFA-induced aggregates marked by the Golgi marker GONST1-YFP (green) were already detected 10 min after BFA treatment, and these aggregates remained similar throughout the 2-h treatment period (Fig. 6, images 1–3; green). In contrast, the VSR-marked PVCs (red) remained unchanged during the first 10 min, whereas VSR-marked aggregates became visible and gradually increased in 2 h (Fig. 6, images 1–3; red). In addition, aggregates derived from Golgi and PVC remained distinct, but closely associated (Fig. 6, merged images 2 and 3). The differential response of Golgi and PVC to BFA treatment was consistent with results obtained from living cells (Figs. 2 and 3). [[FIGURE]] To find out whether the effect of BFA on the formation of PVC-derived aggregates is a primary effect on a PVC target or a secondary effect of transport from the Golgi to the PVC, we performed the following experiments using two phospholipase A2 inhibitors, ONO-RS-082 and bromoenol lactone (BEL), which have been used to inhibit the effect of BFA in mammalian cells (CITATION, CITATION). In addition, ONO in mammalian cells targets and disrupts the Golgi apparatus (CITATION). Transgenic BY-2 cells expressing the Golgi marker GONST1-YFP were pretreated with ONO-RS-082 at 10 μm for 15 min, followed by addition of BFA at 10 or 100 μg mL−1 for an additional hour before confocal imaging. As shown in Figure 7 , BFA at either 10 or 100 μg mL−1 induced the GNOST1-YFP-marked Golgi to form aggregates in cells without pretreatment with ONO-RS-082 (Fig. 7A, images 1 and 2). Similar aggregates were observed in cells pretreated with ONO-RS-082 at 10 μm for 15 min followed by BFA treatment at either 10 or 100 μg mL−1 (Fig. 7A, images 3 and 4), indicating that this drug did not block the BFA effect on Golgi at either low or high concentrations. However, in transgenic BY-2 cells expressing the PVC marker GFP BP-80, BFA at 100 μg mL−1 induced the GFP-marked PVC to form aggregates in cells without pretreatment with ONO-RS-082 (Fig. 7A, image 2), but no such aggregates were observed in cells pretreated with ONO-RS-082 at 10 μm for 15 min (Fig. 7A, image 4), indicating that the drug prevents the formation of BFA-induced PVC aggregates. When a similar drug, BEL, was used to pretreat cells before BFA treatment at 100 μg mL−1, it did not block the formation of BFA-induced aggregates from Golgi or PVC (Supplemental Fig. S4), indicating that ONO-RS-082 was specific for PVC. These results clearly demonstrated that BFA acts on different targets on the Golgi and the PVC; whereas ONO-RS-082 did not prevent the formation of BFA-induced aggregates from the Golgi, the drug blocked the formation of BFA-induced PVC aggregates. Therefore, it is likely that BFA acts on distinct targets on Golgi and PVC, respectively, even though its molecular mechanism of actions on Golgi and PVC remained to be illustrated in plant cells. [[FIGURE]] Confocal immunofluorescent studies thus far demonstrate that BFA at high concentration (50–100 μg mL−1) induced both Golgi and PVC to form aggregates that are closely adjacent to each other. To further identify and study the morphological structures of these BFA-induced aggregates and their relationship, immunoEM studies were then carried out where GFP and VSR antibodies were used to detect Golgi stacks and PVCs, respectively, in transgenic GONST1-YFP BY-2 cells. Day 3 GONST1-YFP transgenic BY-2 cells were treated with BFA at 100 μg mL−1 for 1 h before they were fixed by glutaraldehyde and embedded in Lowicryl (HM20). Ultrathin sections were then prepared for immunoEM labeling. As shown in Figure 8 , normal Golgi apparatus (Fig. 8A) was specifically labeled by GFP antibodies in untreated control cells. In contrast, in BFA-treated cells, curved Golgi aggregates were labeled specifically by GFP antibodies (Fig. 8B), which may likely represent the BFA-induced aggregates derived from the Golgi apparatus. [[FIGURE]] Because no visible MVBs were detected in ultrathin sections prepared from Lowicryl (HM20) blocks, we therefore prepared samples using a high-pressure frozen/freeze substituted protocol for immunoEM studies (CITATION). As shown in Figure 8, in the untreated control cells, multivesicular PVCs were clearly labeled by VSR antibodies and labeling was mainly on the peripheral regions (Fig. 8, C and D). Similarly, in BFA-treated cells, similar sizes (100–200 nm) of vesicles were also labeled specifically by VSR antibodies to their peripheral membranes (Fig. 8, E–H). Moreover, unlike untreated cells where PVC/MVBs were often identified individually, these VSR-labeled vesicles were often detected as groups that tended to pack together and thus might be derived from PVC aggregation or vesiculation (Fig. 8, E–I). However, these aggregated vesicles containing VSR proteins seem to lose their MVB appearance because no visible internal vesicles were detected from these VSR-labeled PVCs under these conditions (see, for example, Fig. 8, E and G). To study further the details of these Golgi- or PVC-derived aggregates in response to BFA treatment, we then performed structural transmission electron microscopy (TEM) studies using conventional chemical fixation and subsequent embedding in Spurr's resin as previously described (CITATION). First, day 3 transgenic GONST1-YFP BY-2 cells were treated with BFA at 0, 10 (controls), and 100 μg mL−1 for 1 h. Cells were then prepared for TEM analysis as described (CITATION). As shown in Supplemental Figure S5, in untreated control cells, normal Golgi apparatus (A) and typical multivesicular PVCs (B) were detected. In addition, in cells treated with a low concentration of BFA (at 10 μg mL−1), typical BFA-induced Golgi aggregates with visible ER-Golgi hybrids (C) were observed, whereas normal multivesicular PVCs remained unchanged in size and morphology (D). However, in cells treated with BFA at 100 μg mL−1, many aggregated vesicles with sizes of 100 to 200 nm, but lacking internal vesicular structures, were often observed in these BFA-treated cells (Fig. 9A ), a result consistent with the immunoEM study in which aggregated vesicles were found to be labeled by VSR antibodies in BFA-treated cells (Fig. 8, E–H). Such detection was due to BFA treatment because no such aggregated vesicles around the Golgi apparatus were observed in untreated cells (data not shown). Thus, these aggregated vesicles may represent BFA-induced aggregates derived from PVCs in BY-2 cells. Similar vesicle aggregates were also observed from Arabidopsis root-tip cells treated with BFA at 100 μg mL−1 for 1 h (Fig. 9B), indicating that such BFA effect on PVC is not limited to tobacco BY-2 cells. [[FIGURE]] We have thus far demonstrated that BFA at high concentrations induced both Golgi and PVC to form aggregates in tobacco BY-2 cells and that aggregates derived from Golgi and PVC remained distinct, but closely associated. To find out whether such a BFA response is unique to BY-2 cells or can also be observed in other cell types, we performed additional BFA induction experiments using root-tip cells of various plants. Mature seeds of mung bean, pea, Arabidopsis, and transgenic tobacco expressing the Golgi marker GONST1-YFP were first germinated before the root tips were treated with BFA at 0, 10, and 100 μg mL−1 for 1 h, followed by fixation and immunolabeling with VSR antibodies. As shown in Figure 10 , typical punctate patterns were observed in tobacco root-tip cells expressing the Golgi marker GONST1-YFP, and these YFP-marked Golgi formed aggregates in the presence of BFA at either 10 or 100 μg mL−1 (Fig. 10, column 1), a result consistent with that observed in transgenic GONST1-YFP BY-2 cells. These results indicated that BFA at high concentrations induced the Golgi to form aggregates in tobacco root-tip cells. In contrast, BFA at low concentrations (0 or 10 μg mL−1) did not induce any changes in the VSR-marked PVCs, but BFA at high concentrations (100 μg mL−1) induced the VSR-marked PVCs to form aggregates in root-tip cells of mung bean, pea, and Arabidopsis (Fig. 10, columns 2–4). Moreover, PVC-derived aggregates in Arabidopsis root-tip cells (Fig. 9B) look similar to those in BY-2 cells (Fig. 9A). Therefore, BFA at high concentrations induced Golgi and PVC to form aggregates in root-tip cells of various plants in a way that is similar to that of BY-2 cells. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! General methods for construction of recombinant plasmids, characterization of cloned inserts, transformation of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells, maintenance of transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells, and preparation and characterization of antibodies have been described previously (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). BY-2 cells were maintained by subculture twice a month on agar plates or every 7 d in liquid cultures at room temperature (21°C–22°C). Liquid cultures were kept in shakers at 125 rpm. GFP with a signal peptide sequence from proaleurain (spGFP) was amplified by PCR and subcloned into the pYFP BP-80 construct via HindIII/EcoRI sites to replace the pYFP and resulted in pGFP BP-80 (CITATION). The resulting pGFP BP-80 construct was then transformed into the Agrobacterium LBA4404, followed by transforming BY-2 cells as previously described (CITATION). In addition, transgenic tobacco plants expressing the Golgi marker GONST1-YFP and the PVC reporter pYFP-BP-80 were generated via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation as previously described (CITATION). For BFA treatment experiments, aliquots of BFA (stock at 2.5 mg mL−1 in dimethyl sulfoxide) solution were added to 2- and 3-d-old suspension cultures (log phase cultures) to give the proper final concentrations. BFA-treated cells were then removed from the cultures at indicated times for direct confocal imaging or fixed for confocal immunofluorescence and EM. For recovery experiments, BY-2 cells were treated with BFA at indicated concentrations, followed by centrifugations at low speed and washing three times with fresh Murashige and Skoog medium before samples were used for confocal imaging or fixation. On average, more than 100 cells were observed to obtain similar results for each experiment. All drug treatment experiments had been repeated at least two to three times with similar results to make sure that the drugs were functional and the cells used were at the same or similar physiological stages. For drug treatment using OBO-RS-082 (BIOMOL) and BEL (Sigma), aliquots of the ONO-RS-082 and BEL (stock at 1 mm in dimethyl sulfoxide) solution were added to 2- to-3-d-old suspension cultures to give the proper final concentrations and incubated for 15 min, followed by addition of BFA at indicated final concentrations and incubated for 1 h. The treated cells were then collected and subjected to direct confocal imaging. Production and characterization of VSR antibodies were described previously (CITATION). Secondary lissamine rhodamine-conjugated affinity-purified anti-rabbit antibodies were purchased from Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories. Fixation and preparation of tobacco BY-2 cells, labeling, and analysis by epifluorescence and confocal immunofluorescence have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The parameters for collecting confocal images within the linear range were settled as previously described (CITATION). For single labeling, 4 μg mL−1 of polyclonal rabbit VSR antibodies were incubated at 4°C overnight. All confocal fluorescence images were collected using a Bio-Rad Radiance 2100 system. Images were processed using Adobe Photoshop software as previously described (CITATION). For samples embedded in LR White and Lowicryl (HM20) for immunoEM studies, cells were fixed in 1 mL of a primary fixative solution containing 0.25% (v/v) glutaraldehyde and 1.5% (v/w) paraformaldehyde in 50 mm phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, for 15 min at room temperature and then transferred to 4°C for an additional 16 h. After washing with phosphate buffer at room temperature, cells were dehydrated in an ethanol series and then embedded in LR White and Lowicryl (HM20) resin. For samples embedded in Spurr's resin for structural TEM studies, cells were fixed in 1 mL of a primary fixative containing 2% (v/v) glutaraldehyde and 0.1 mL of saturated picric acid in 25 mm CaCo buffer, pH 7.2, for 15 min at room temperature and then transferred to 4°C for an additional 16 h. After washing with 25 mm CaCo buffer, pH 7.2, cells were further subjected to a secondary fixative solution containing 2% (w/v) osmium tetroxide and 0.5% (w/v) potassium ferrocyanide in 25 mm CaCo buffer, pH 7.2, for 2 h at room temperature. The cells were then washed with 25 mm CaCo buffer, pH 7.2, followed by contrasting at 2% aqueous uranyl acetate for 2 h at room temperature. After washing twice in water, cells were dehydrated in an acetone series and finally embedded in Spurr's resin. For sample preparation using high-pressure frozen/freeze substituted, procedures were performed essentially as described previously (CITATION). Ultrathin sections were then prepared from these blocks and used in either immunoEM or structural TEM studies as described (CITATION). VSR and GFP antibodies (at 40 μg mL−1 diluted with phosphate-buffered saline containing 1% bovine serum albumin) were used in immunoEM studies. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. BFA induces YFP-marked PVCs to form aggregates in a dose-dependent manner. Supplemental Figure S2. Formation of BFA-induced Golgi aggregates in GONST1-YFP cells is stage dependent. Supplemental Figure S3. Recovery of BFA-induced aggregates. Supplemental Figure S4. Target of BFA effect on Golgi and PVC is distinct. Supplemental Figure S5. Ultrastructural analysis of BFA-treated transgenic GONST1-YFP cells.
