!~ABS~! Two homologous plant-specific Arabidopsis thaliana genes, RGXT1 and RGXT2, belong to a new family of glycosyltransferases (CAZy GT-family-77) and encode cell wall (1,3)-α-d-xylosyltransferases. The deduced amino acid sequences contain single transmembrane domains near the N terminus, indicative of a type II membrane protein structure. Soluble secreted forms of the corresponding proteins expressed in insect cells showed xylosyltransferase activity, transferring d-xylose from UDP-α-d-xylose to l-fucose. The disaccharide product was hydrolyzed by α-xylosidase, whereas no reaction was catalyzed by β-xylosidase. Furthermore, the regio- and stereochemistry of the methyl xylosyl-fucoside was determined by nuclear magnetic resonance to be an α-(1,3) linkage, demonstrating the isolated glycosyltransferases to be (1,3)-α-d-xylosyltransferases. This particular linkage is only known in rhamnogalacturonan-II, a complex polysaccharide essential to vascular plants, and is conserved across higher plant families. Rhamnogalacturonan-II isolated from both RGXT1 and RGXT2 T-DNA insertional mutants functioned as specific acceptor molecules in the xylosyltransferase assay. Expression of RGXT1- and RGXT2-enhanced green fluorescent protein constructs in Arabidopsis revealed that both fusion proteins were targeted to a Brefeldin A–sensitive compartment and also colocalized with the Golgi marker dye BODIPY TR ceramide, consistent with targeting to the Golgi apparatus. Taken together, these results suggest that RGXT1 and RGXT2 encode Golgi-localized (1,3)-α-d-xylosyltransferases involved in the biosynthesis of pectic rhamnogalacturonan-II.
!~RES~! The uniqueness and complexity of plant CW polysaccharide structures have made identification of CW GTs by simple homology approaches impracticable. In addition, the very limited number of donor and especially acceptor substrates has further hampered the identification of novel plant CW GTs. As a significant proportion of Arabidopsis GTs probably remains to be classified, we developed a bioinformatic filtering strategy aimed at identifying unclassified CW GTs in Arabidopsis (CITATION). As a result, 27 putative GTs were identified, and two of these gave rise to a new family in CAZy (GT-family-77; CITATION; http://afmb.cnrs-mrs.fr/CAZY/). The two genes, designated RGXT1 (At4g01770) and RGXT2 (At4g01750), were selected for the functional characterization presented here. RGXT1 and RGXT2 encode polypeptides of 361 and 367 amino acids, respectively, and are 90% identical at the amino acid level (Figure 1 ). The two genes are located closely together on chromosome 4, separated by only 6.2 kb. In the Arabidopsis genome, many homologous genes are situated in clusters created by recent, local duplications (CITATION); thus, it is likely that the two genes are paralogs. [[FIGURE]] The deduced amino acid sequences of RGXT1 and RGXT2 contain a single TMD in the N terminus (36 to 55 in RGXT1 and 30 to 52 in RGXT2; Figure 1) and adopt a type II membrane protein structure typical of Golgi-located GTs (reviewed in CITATION). Both proteins contain a DxD motif flanked by hydrophobic residues situated approximately in the middle of the deduced amino acid sequences (190 to 193 in RGXT1 and 196 to 198 in RGXT2; Figure 1), which in several crystal structures has been shown to be the site of interaction with the uridine diphosphate of the donor substrate via a metal cation (CITATION; CITATION). Two similar sequences in Arabidopsis, At4g01220 and At1g56550, are 68 to 75% identical with RGXT1 and RGXT2 (Figure 1). EST sequences with pronounced similarity to this small gene family have been detected in various plants, for example, Oryza sativa (CA763987), Gossypium arboreum (BE055585 and BE055834), Lycopersicon esculentum (BG124533), Brassica napus (BN40062E13), Beta vulgaris (BQ487865), Prunus persica (BU048490), Allium cepa (CF438943), Citrus sinensis (CF832864), Glycine max (BI969475), Medicago truncatula (BI266542), Populus alba × Populus tremula (CF229735), Saccharum officinarum (CA141232), Ipomoea nil (BJ575216), and Mesembryanthemum crystallinum (BE034382). Homologous sequences from organisms outside the plant kingdom have not been found. Soluble secreted forms of RGXT1 and RGXT2 were expressed in baculovirus-transfected insect cells (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). One of the main experimental difficulties in determining the catalytic function of GTs relates to the limited availability of relevant candidate oligosaccharide acceptors. However, the range of possible acceptor structures can be narrowed down by exploiting the observation that monosaccharides can serve as acceptor analogs if provided at high concentrations in the GT assay, also denoted as the free sugar assay (CITATION; CITATION). By combining available donor nucleoside diphosphate-[14C]-sugars (NDP-[14C]-sugars) and monosaccharide acceptors in the free sugar assay, heterologously expressed RGXT1 and RGXT2 protein were shown to catalyze the transfer of d-[14C]-xylose (d-[14C]-Xyl) from UDP-α-d-[14C]-Xyl onto l-fucose (l-Fuc) and with lower efficiency, d-[14C]-Xyl onto l-arabinose (l-Ara) (Figure 2A ). All other combinations with the donor NDP-[14C]-sugars (UDP-α-d-[14C]-glucose, UDP-α-d-[14C]-galactose, UDP-α-d-[14C]-N-acetyl-glucosamine, UDP-α-d-[14C]-glucuronic acid, GDP-β-l-[14C]-fucose, and GDP-α-d-[14C]-mannose) and monosaccharide acceptors (d-glucose [d-Glc], d-galactose [d-Gal], l-rhamnose [l-Rha], d-xylose [d-Xyl], d-mannose, l-Fuc, and N-acetyl-d-glucosamine [d-GlcNAc]) did not result in the formation of radioactive products (data not shown). Thus, both RGXT1 and RGXT2 encode xylosyltransferases using UDP-α-d-Xyl specifically as donor substrate, transferring d-Xyl onto l-Fuc, and less efficiently onto l-Ara. d-[14C]-Xyl was only incorporated at high l-Ara concentrations, whereas no transfer occurred at low concentrations (1 to 10 mM) compared with when l-Fuc was used as acceptor (data not shown). Xylose linked to arabinose is a rare epitope in the plant CW and has so far only been found in arabinoxylan of Cinnamomum zeylanium (CITATION). The arabinose residue is in the furanose form (l-Araf) in this case, and l-Araf is generally much more abundant in the CW than arabinose in pyranose form (l-Arap). The equilibrium between l-Araf and l-Arap in the free sugar assay is driven toward l-Arap. To test if l-Araf would work as an efficient acceptor substrate, we chose (1,5)-α-l-arabinobiose as a substrate featuring an l-Araf at the nonreducing end. No incorporation of [14C]-xylose was observed (Figure 2A), and we therefore decided to focus on l-Fuc as the acceptor. [[FIGURE]] The stereochemistry of the glycosidic linkage of the product obtained after incubation of RGXT2 with UDP-α-d-[14C]-Xyl and l-Fuc was determined by treating the product with either α- or β-xylosidase and analyzing the reaction mixture by size exclusion chromatography (SEC; Figure 2B). Only α-xylosidase released d-[14C]-Xyl from the product (Figure 2B), showing that RGXT2 is a retaining GT (α-xylosyltransferase). The chemical structure of the product formed in the free sugar assay using methyl α-l-fucoside as acceptor was resolved by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). The disaccharide product was purified by mass spectrometry (MS)–guided fractionation using HPLC (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). The peak displaying the expected molecular mass of the sodium adduct ([M+Na]+) at a mass-to-charge ratio of 333 was collected and used in the NMR experiments presented in Supplemental Figure 3 online. Both one- (1D) and two-dimensional (2D) spectra were recorded: 1D, 1H double quantum-filtered correlated spectroscopy (dqCOSY); 2D, 1H-1H chemical shift correlation, J-resolved spectroscopy (JRES) (2D spectrum with 1H chemical shift versus coupling constants), heteronuclear single quantum coherence (HSQC; one bond 2D 13C-1H chemical shift correlation), and heteronuclear multiple bond correlation (HMBC; multiple bond 2D 13C-1H chemical shift correlation). The chemical shifts and coupling constants are given in Table 1 . The point of xylose attachment to the fucose moiety was evident from two HMBC cross-peaks, xylose(H1)-fucose(C3) and fucose(H3)-xylose(C1) (see Supplemental Figure 3E online). In addition, there was an 8-ppm downfield shift of C3 in the fucose moiety relative to C3 in unsubstituted methyl α-l-fucoside. The small coupling constant of 3.8 Hz of the anomeric xylose proton is diagnostic of the α-linkage. The anomeric proton of the fucose was hidden by the HOD peak, but its coupling constant could be derived at 4.0 Hz from the coupling constants of H2, confirming an untouched α-configuration of the methyl α-l-fucoside. All 13C chemical shifts were in acceptable accordance with the monomeric reference compounds methyl α-d-xyloside and methyl α-l-fucoside (CITATION). The cross-peak at 5.09/63.4 in the HMBC spectrum corresponds to xylose(H1)-xylose(C5), proving that the xylose is in pyranose form, which also can be seen from the 13C data, where the shifts are below 80 ppm (xylose in furanose form will have shifts above 80 ppm). NMR Spectral Data of Methyl α-d-Xylopyranosyl-(1,3)-α-l-Fucopyranoside in D2O Taken together, the NMR data revealed the regio- and stereochemistry of the methyl xylosyl-fucoside to be an α-(1,3) linkage. The only known plant oligo- or polysaccharide featuring an (1,3)-α-d-linked Xyl-l-Fuc structure is in the A-chain of pectic RG-II (Figure 3B ). [[FIGURE]] The α-(1,4) linkage between l-Fuc and l-Rha in the RG-II A-chain prompted us to examine various acceptors containing α-linked l-Fuc (Figure 3A). The smallest possible increment in acceptor size is the methyl fucoside, which comprises a glycosidic bond and at the same time fixes the anomeric configuration. Therefore, methyl α- and β-l-Fuc were chemically synthesized. Methyl α-l-Fuc was found to be an ∼5 times more efficient acceptor than free l-Fuc, whereas methyl β-l-Fuc did not lead to any d-[14C]-Xyl incorporation (Figure 3A). Thus, the preference for an α-glycosidic bond of l-Fuc appeared to be absolute as acceptor for both RGXT1 and RGXT2. The next obvious acceptor increment, the α-l-Fuc-(1,4)-l-Rha disaccharide, was prepared by chemical synthesis, and this acceptor was found to be a slightly better acceptor than free l-Fuc. To investigate the possible influence of the anomeric configuration of the l-Rha moiety, the methyl glycosides of the disaccharide, methyl α-l-fucosyl-(1,4)-α-l-rhamnoside [methyl α-l-Fuc-(1,4)-α-l-Rha], and methyl α-l-fucosyl-(1,4)-β-l-rhamnoside [methyl α-l-Fuc-(1,4)-β-l-Rha] were synthesized and tested as acceptors. Both worked 1 to 1.5 times better than α-l-Fuc-(1,4)-l-Rha, but no significant differences were found between the α- and β-forms of the methyl glycosides (Figure 3A). α-l-Fuc-(1,4)-d-GlcNAc, which features the same linkage as α-l-Fuc-(1,4)-l-Rha, was approximately half as efficient as α-l-Fuc-(1,4)-l-Rha (Figure 3A). The two fucosyl-d-lactose trisaccharides, in which α-l-Fuc is conjugated to either the d-Gal or d-Glc residue at the O-2′ or O-3 position, respectively, were found to be less efficient acceptors than α-l-Fuc-(1,4)-d-GlcNAc (Figure 3A). In conclusion, RGXT1 and RGXT2 prefer l-Fuc being α-linked to the O-4 position of the adjacent sugar over linkages to the O-2 and O-3 positions. The level of incorporation of d-[14C]-Xyl onto α-l-Fuc-(1,4)-l-Rha was one-third of the incorporation obtained with methyl α-l-Fuc (Figure 3A), which is somewhat unexpected, given the predicted involvement of RGXT1 and RGXT2 in the synthesis of the α-d-Xyl-(1,3)-α-l-Fuc-(1,4)-l-Rha structure in RG-II. Possible explanations for this apparent discrepancy are presented in the Discussion. If both RGXT1 and RGXT2 are involved in the synthesis of the RG-II A-chain and the two genes do not fully complement one another, mutants harboring T-DNA insertion in either RGXT1 or RGXT2 might feature a RG-II population in which the methylated d-Xyl residue (2-O-methyl d-Xyl) is reduced or missing. T-DNA insertional mutants for RGXT1 (Salk_073748) and RGXT2 (Salk_023883) with insertions in the last exon and in the first intron of the two genes, respectively (Figure 4A ), as determined by sequencing from the T-DNA left border (CITATION) were selected for this investigation. Three (rgxt1-5, rgxt1-8, and rgxt1-10) and two (rgxt2-4 and rgxt2-6) homozygous plants for mutation of RGXT1 and RGXT2, respectively, were identified by PCR (Figure 4B), the phenotype scored, and the sugar composition of the CW fractions determined. No obvious morphological differences between the wild type and mutants were observed. The 2-O-methyl d-Xyl residue is diagnostic of RG-II and could be detected in alcohol-insoluble residues (AIRs) from rosette leaves by gas chromatography electro-ionization (GC/EI)-MS, but the concentration was too low to permit precise quantification. RG-II–enriched preparations were therefore made from the wild type and mutants and analyzed. The sugar composition from the isolated RG-II revealed that no statistically significant changes were caused by the T-DNA insertion in either RGXT1 or RGXT2 (Table 2 ). Apparently, the mutation in either gene did not eliminate the 2-O-methyl d-Xyl residue, probably because the other gene product compensated for the dysfunction of the mutated xylosyltransferase gene. A similar case has been observed for T-DNA insertional mutants of UDP-α-d-Api/UDP-α-d-xylose synthase (AXS1), of which Arabidopsis contains at least two homologous genes (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Sugar Composition of RG-II Isolated from Wild-Type and T-DNA Insertional Mutants of RGXT1 and RGXT2 Radiochemical transferase assays are more sensitive than chemical analysis of monosaccharide profiles, and it was therefore decided to characterize the mutant RG-IIs for their ability to serve as acceptor substrates. The preparations of RG-II from the wild type, rgxt1, and rgxt2 listed in Table 2 were used for acceptor substrate studies. Both RGXT1 and RGXT2 catalyzed transfer of d-[14C]-Xyl to the RG-II preparation from the rgxt1 T-DNA insertional mutant plants (∼1000 cpm above incorporation into wild-type RG-II; Figure 5A ) and at a higher level to RG-II from the rgxt2 T-DNA insertional mutant plants (∼3000 cpm above incorporation into wild-type RG-II; Figure 5B). α-Xylosidase very efficiently removed RGXT2-incorporated d-[14C]-Xyl from the RG-II of both T-DNA insertional mutants (Figures 5A and 5B). Wild-type RG-II did not work as an acceptor (Figures 5A and 5B), and a control insect supernatant containing the soluble secreted form of CAZy GT-family-77 At1g75110 did not transfer d-[14C]-Xyl to the mutant RG-IIs (Figures 5A and 5B). [[FIGURE]] In conclusion, the mutant RG-IIs were not identical to the wild-type counterpart, although the differences were below the detection limits of our chemical analysis, and both RGXT1 and RGXT2 catalyzed the transfer of d-[14C]-Xyl to RG-II isolated from both T-DNA insertional mutants, which suggests that RGXT1 and RGXT2 are xylosyltransferases involved in the synthesis of the α-d-Xyl-(1,3)-α-l-Fuc-(1,4)-l-Rha structure in pectic RG-II. The levels of RGXT1 and RGXT2 transcripts in various tissues were investigated using RT-PCR. Whereas a strong 18S rRNA derived band was obtained (18S in Figure 6 ), neither RGXT1- nor RGXT2-derived transcripts were detectable after 25 cycles of PCR (data not shown). After 45 cycles of PCR amplification, both RGXT1 and RGXT2 mRNAs were detected (Figure 6). RGXT1 mRNA was found in root and rosette leaves, and RGXT2 was detected in root, rosette leaves, stem, and flower (Figure 6) and generally appeared to be expressed at a higher level. [[FIGURE]] RNA gel blot analysis was not sensitive enough to detect the transcripts in any of the selected tissues (data not shown). BLAST searches with the RGXT1 and RGXT2 cDNA sequences at the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI; http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov) revealed the existence of a limited number of ESTs derived from root, leaf, flower, seedlings, and mixed tissues of various developmental stages (data not shown). The ESTs could rarely be assigned with certainty to RGXT1 or RGXT2 because of the high similarity of the two genes. The subcellular location of RGXT1 and RGXT2 was investigated by C-terminal fusions of the full-length coding regions to the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) and EGFP alone as a control (Figure 7A ). After biolistic particle bombardments of wild-type Arabidopsis rosette leaves, cells expressing the RGXT1-EGFP protein (Figures 7B and 7D) displayed GFP fluorescence in small vesicles similar to those of other Golgi-localized enzymes (CITATION). The same pattern was observed for the RGXT2-EGFP fusion protein (data not shown). Expression of EGFP alone showed diffused fluorescence in the cytosol and in particular in the cytoplasm surrounding the nucleus (data not shown), a clearly distinct pattern from that of RGXT1-EGFP protein. [[FIGURE]] The fluorescent structures were investigated further by treatment with Brefeldin A (BFA). BFA is a lipophilic fungal toxin known to block vesicular transport in the secretory pathway between the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi and between Golgi and the trans-Golgi network. In some cases, BFA also induces vesiculation and disassembly of the Golgi apparatus (CITATION; CITATION). When cells were treated with BFA, the labeling pattern in the RGXT1-EGFP bombarded cells changed from a clear pattern of well-defined bodies in the untreated control (Figures 7B and 7D) to a pattern of diffuse and disassembled vesicles (Figures 7C and 7E) as would be expected for Golgi-localized proteins. A similar difference between treated and untreated cells was observed for RGXT2-EGFP (data not shown). Golgi location was further corroborated using a ceramide stain recommended for labeling the Golgi apparatus in plants (CITATION). BODIPY TR ceramide produces selective staining of the Golgi complex and can easily be observed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) (CITATION). BODIPY TR staining of transgenic Arabidopsis cells expressing the RGXT1-EGFP fusion protein (Figures 7F and 7G) matched perfectly when the two images were merged (Figure 7H), showing that the fusion protein colocalized with the BODIPY TR dye. Again, similar results were obtained with RGXT2-EGFP (data not shown). In conclusion, both the BFA and the BODIPY TR results are consistent with targeting to the Golgi apparatus.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0; wild type) and T-DNA insertional mutant plants were grown in soil in a controlled-environment growth chamber (Percival AR-60 I) at a photosynthetic flux of 100 to 120 μmol photons m−2 s−1 at an 8-h-light/16-h-dark cycle, 20°C, and 70% relative humidity. Glass house–grown plants were used for large-scale RG-II preparation. α-Xylosidase was a kind gift from Marco Moracci (Institute of Protein Biochemistry and Enzymology, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, Naples, Italy). Escherichia coli β-xylosidase was from Sigma-Aldrich. UDP-α-d-[14C]-Glc, UDP-α-d-[14C]-Gal, UDP-α-d-[14C]-GlcNAc, GDP-β-l-[14C]-Fuc, and GDP-α-d-[14C]-Man were from Amersham Biosciences (GE-Healthcare). UDP-α-d-[14C]-GlcA and UDP-α-d-[14C]-Xyl were from NEN. UDP-α-d-Xyl was from CarboSource (Complex Carbohydrater Resource Center), and other non-isotope-labeled nucleoside diphosphate sugars were from Calbiochem-Novabiochem. The disaccharide (1,5)-α-l-arabinobiose was from Megazyme International. Other chemicals and reagents were from Sigma-Aldrich. Methyl α-l-fucopyranoside and methyl β-l-fucopyranoside were prepared using a modification of the Fischer method (CITATION) in which l-Fuc was heated with 1.25 M methanolic hydrogen chloride at 80°C and the reaction followed by thin layer chromatography until the starting material had disappeared. Subsequently, the reaction product was acetylated using acetic anhydride-sodium acetate to enhance chromatographic separation of the formed anomeric mixture (chromatographic separation was performed on silica gel column using the eluent system of 10% acetone in n-pentane). The obtained methyl 2,3,4-tri-O-acetyl-α-l-fucopyranoside was deacetylated using sodium methoxide in methanol to provide the desired methyl α-l-fucopyranoside. The strategy for synthesis of α-l-fucopyranosyl-(1,4)-l-rhamnopyranose (5a) and its methyl glycosides (5b and 5c) is outlined in Figure 8 , which involves the conversion of l-Rha (1) into the suitable glycosyl acceptors (2a to 2c) and the conversion of l-Fuc (3) into a suitable glycosyl donor (4). Recently, we reported a short and practical methodology for conversion of unprotected sugars into the corresponding phenyl 4,6-O-benzylidene-per-O-acetylated-1,2-trans-thioglycosides (CITATION). This protocol was successfully applied to convert l-Rha (1) into the glycosyl acceptors 2,3-O-benzylidene-β-l-rhamnopyranoside derivatives (2a to 2c). Based on the same approach, l-Fuc was modified and converted in five steps into the glycosyl donor 2,3,4-tri-O-benzyl-α/β-l-fucopyranosyl fluoride (4). The glycosidation reaction between (2a to 2c) and (4) was achieved using the activator silver perchlorate-tin dichloride system (CITATION), and subsequent deprotection led to the desired products (5a to 5c). [[FIGURE]] All intermediates were purified to homogeneity and their structures ascertained by 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy. Experimental details and proof of the identity of the synthesized products will be published elsewhere. RGXT1 (At4g01770) was cloned by RT-PCR from total RNA isolated from roots of 4-week-old bolting Arabidopsis plants using the following primer set: forward primer (5′-ATGGAGCAGAAACAACATATTC-3′) and reverse primer (5′-TTACTCTAATTTCCCTAATGGAG-3′). Total RNA was extracted using TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. RT-PCR was performed according to CITATION, with the exception of the cycle parameters in the PCR, which were as follows: 3 min at 94°C, 45 cycles of 94°C for 30 s, 50°C for 30 s, and 68°C for 30 s, followed by 12 min at 72°C. RGXT2 (At4g01750) was cloned by PCR from a λYES cDNA library (CITATION) using the following primer set: forward primer (5′-ATACGGATCCGAACAAAGTCTCTTCTCCTT-3′) and reverse primer (5′-ATGAGCGGCCGCTTACTGCAATTTCCCTAATGGA-3′). The amplified full-length cDNA coding sequences were cloned into the pUC18 vector using the SmaI site. Fragments corresponding to the soluble forms of the proteins (i.e., amino acid residues 56 to 361 of RGXT1 and 53 to 367 of RGXT2) were PCR amplified using the forward primers 5′-CATACACGTGGATCCTTCTCCCTTATTCCTGTTTCCA-3′ for RGXT1 and 5′-CATAGGATCCTTGGCCCGGATCTCCTTTGTT-3′ for RGXT2, the reverse primers 5′-ATGACCGCGGGCGGCCGCTTACTCTAATTTCCCTAATGG-3′ for RGXT1 and 5′-TGATGACCGCGGGCGGCCGCTTACTGCAATTTCCCTAATGGA-3′ for RGXT2 (restriction sites BamHI, SacII, and NotI are underlined), and the full-length cDNAs as a template. The PCR products were cloned into the pBKS-HISTAG II vector (a kind gift from Eric Paul Bennett, University of Copenhagen) in frame with an N-terminal hexa-histidine tag, thrombin cleavage site, and T7 affinity tag using the restriction sites BamHI (5′-end) and SacII (3′-end). The pBKS-HISTAG II vector is a modified pBluescript SK +/− vector carrying the following extra sequences in between EcoRI-BamHI sites: 5′-GAATTCGCGGCCGCAGCAGCCATCATCATCATCATCACAGCAGCGGCCTGGTGCCGCGCGGCAGCCATATGGCTAGCATGACTGGTGGACAGCAAATGGATCC-3′ (underlined italics indicate EcoRI and BamHI sites, and the rest of the underlined nucleotides (5′ to 3′ direction) encode six histidines, a thrombin cleavage site [LVPRGS], and the T7 affinity tags [MASMTGGQQMD]). Finally, the tag-gene fusions were isolated using a NotI site and cloned into the pAcGP67A vector (BD Biosciences Pharmingen) in frame with the leader peptide. All constructs were fully sequenced. pAcGP67A containing soluble, tagged forms of RGXT1 and RGXT2 was cotransfected with Baculo-Gold DNA (BD Biosciences Pharmingen) and virus amplified as described by CITATION. Enzyme assay was performed with supernatant containing the secreted enzymes of transfected Sf9 and High Five cells. Insect supernatant containing the soluble secreted form of the At1g75110 gene product was used as control. Samples containing 30 μg of protein were boiled for 10 min and then separated on a 10% SDS polyacrylamide gel. Proteins were then transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane as recommended by the manufacturer (Sigma-Aldrich) and probed with a peroxidase-conjugated antibody against the his-tag (A7058 from Sigma-Aldrich. The signal was detected using chemiluminesence. An identical gel was stained with Commassie Brilliant Blue R 250 to ensure equal loading. The free sugar assay was performed according to CITATION with the following modifications. Standard assays were performed in 50 μL of reaction mixture containing 25 mM ammonium formate, pH 7.5, 10 mM MnCl2, 100 μM NDP-sugar, including ∼0.5 μM NDP-[14C]-sugar (200 to 300 mCi/mmol, ∼10 nCi/μL, 9.8 GBq/mmol, 1 nCi = 2.2 × 103 cpm, yielding a total of ∼11,000 cpm in the assay), 0.5 M monosaccharide, and 2 μL of supernatant of High Five cells after transfection of the RGXT1- or RGXT2-containing construct. For acceptor studies using l-Fuc and l-Fuc derivatives, 1 mM of each acceptor and 10 μL of High Five supernatant was used. After incubation for 1 h at 30°C, unincorporated NDP-[14C]-sugar was removed by passing the reaction mixture through a Dowex-1 anion exchanger (1X8, 200 to 400 mesh Cl; Sigma-Aldrich), and the radioactivity in the flow through was determined by scintillation counting. Xylosyltransferase assay using isolated RG-II as acceptor was performed in 50 μL of reaction mixture containing 100 mM ammonium formate, pH 7.5, 10 mM MnCl2, 100 μM unlabeled UDP-α-d-Xyl, including ∼2.0 μM radiolabeled UDP-α-d-[14C]-Xyl (200 to 300 mCi/mmol, ∼10 nCi/μL, 9.8 GBq/mmol, 1 nCi = 2.2 × 103 cpm, yielding a total of ∼44,000 cpm in the assay), ∼100 μg RG-II, and 10 μL High Five supernatant, which was incubated for 4 h at 30°C with shaking. Incorporated α-d-[14C]-Xyl from RG-II was released with α-xylosidase as described below. The products were separated using a Superdex Peptide column (30-cm long, 1-cm i.d.; Pharmacia GE-Healthcare) eluted with 50 mM ammonium formate, pH 5.0, at a flow rate of 24 mL/h. Fractions were collected in 2-min intervals (0.8 mL), and the radioactivity was determined by scintillation counting. RGXT2 in the High Five supernatant was incubated with a combination of UDP-α-d-[14C]-Xyl and l-Fuc by scaling up the standard free sugar assay 10-fold. After incubation, unincorporated NDP-[14C]-sugar and enzyme was removed by anion exchange chromatography as described above. The products were dried, dissolved in 50 mM sodium acetate, pH 5.0, and divided into three aliquots. Each aliquot was incubated with 2 milliunits α-xylosidase (CITATION) or β-xylosidase (X1378; Sigma-Aldrich). Incubation was performed at the optimal temperature for each enzyme (70°C for 5 h for α-xylosidase and control, and 37°C for 5 h for β-xylosidase). The enzyme digests and an undigested control were separated on the Superdex Peptide column eluted with 50 mM ammonium formate, pH 5.0, at a flow rate of 24 mL/h. Fractions were collected in 1-min intervals (0.4 mL) and the radioactivity was determined by scintillation counting. For preparative purposes (NMR), an upscaled and unlabeled version of the free sugar assay was used, containing 1 mM UDP-α-d-Xyl and 1 mM methyl α-l-Fuc in 5 mL. The incubation was extended to 96 h, and RGXT2 was added in aliquots at 0, 24, 48, and 72 h to ensure a high yield. After incubation, unincorporated UDP-α-d-Xyl and enzyme were removed by anion exchange chromatography as described above. The flow-through was concentrated and dissolved in water, and the reaction mixture was further purified using an HR16/60 column packed with Sephadex G10 (Pharmacia GE-Healthcare) and eluted with water at a rate of 40 mL/h. The relevant fractions, previously determined using radioactively labeled product, were combined, lyophilized, and applied to MS-guided HPLC. LC-MS was performed on an Agilent 1100 Series LC (Agilent Technologies) coupled to a Bruker Esquire 3000+ ion trap mass spectrometer (Bruker Daltonics). For preparative isolation of the disaccharide, an amino column (Macherey-Nagel CC 123/3 Nucleosil 100-3 NH2, 125 × 3 mm, 3 μm) was used at a flow rate of 0.5 mL·min−1. The mobile phases were as follows: A, 5 μM NaCl, 0.1% formic acid; B, 100% acetonitrile. An unknown precipitate following the addition of acetonitrile was removed by centrifugation before applying the sample to the HPLC column. The preparative chromatography was performed isocratically at 95% solvent B and 5% solvent A. The fraction centered at 9.0 min displaying a strong [M+Na]+ at a mass-to-charge ratio of 333 was collected. After evaporation, the sample was dissolved in D2O and analyzed by NMR on a Bruker Avance 400 instrument using an inverse probe (BBI). The 1H frequency was at 400.1 and 13C at 100.6 MHz. 1H and 13C chemical shifts were based on dioxane as internal reference [δH(dioxane) = 3.75; δC(dioxane) = 67.4]. The available amount of material was too low to allow recording of 1D 13C or distortionless enhancement by polarization transfer spectra; therefore, all chemical shifts were extracted from the 2D spectra (dqCOSY, JRES, HSQC, and HMBC). To achieve an appropriate HMBC spectrum, 1120 transients in each of the 128 spectra in the F1 dimension were recorded over 90 h. Although the isolated sample contained ∼20% of an unknown impurity, unambiguous identification could be done. T-DNA insertional mutants in RGXT1 (Salk_073748) and RGXT2 (Salk_023883) were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (CITATION). Homozygous plants were identified by two PCRs. In the first PCR, a pair of gene-specific primers designed to anneal outside of the T-DNA insertion were used, which in case of homozygosity does not produce a band of the predicted size (negative selection): forward primer 5′-ATGGAGCAGAAACAACATATTC-3′ for RGXT1 and 5′-ATGGCGCAGAAACAACAG-3′ for RGXT2 and reverse primer 5′-TTACTCTAATTTCCCTAATGGAG-3′ for RGXT1 and 5′-TTACTGCAATTTCCCTAATG-3′ for RGXT2. As a positive control of the negative selection, a set of At1g75120-specific primers (5′-ATGGCGGTTCGTAAAGAG-3′ forward and 5′-CTATGAACCATCACGGAAC-3′) unrelated to RGXT1 and RGXT2 were used to amplify a fragment of the expected size. Genomic DNA was isolated using the Nucleon PhytoPure kit (Amersham Biosciences). In the subsequent PCR, the T-DNA left border–specific primer (5′-AGCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAACT-3′) in combination with one of the gene-specific primers (positive selection) was used. RG-II was isolated from AIR prepared from rosette leaves of 4-week-old wild-type and mutant plants according to the method described by CITATION. For 100 mg of AIR, 20 units of EPG (Megazyme International) were used. EPG digests were separated on a 25 mm × 30 cm Superdex 75 column at a flow rate of 6 mL/min. RG-II containing fractions were treated with 0.5 μL of Novozymes Aspergillus niger pectinase (Sigma P2736, no activity declared) for 3 h at room temperature, freeze dried, and purified on the Superdex Peptide column as described for the xylosyltransferase assay above. RG-II–containing fractions to be used in acceptor assays were combined and dialyzed before concentration by freeze-drying. For the purpose of determinations of monosaccharide, profile dialysis was omitted and the lyophilizate was redissolved in water and freeze-dried three times to remove ammonium formate. The monosaccharide composition was determined by GC and GC-MS analysis of the alditol acetate derivatives for neutral sugar composition analysis and methanolysis and trimethylsilylation derivatives for neutral and acidic sugar composition analysis (CITATION). RNA was extracted from root, rosette leaves, cauline leaves, stem, siliques, and flower from 4-week-old bolting Arabidopsis plants grown as described above. RT-PCR was performed according to CITATION. The following primer sets were used to amplify each transcript specifically: RGXT1 forward, 5′-TTATCGGTTACGACAGGAAAA-3′; RGXT1 reverse, 5′-TTCTACTAAACATTACAACT-3′; RGXT2 forward, 5′-TATCGGTTACGATAGGAAAAT-3′; RGXT2 reverse, 5′-TGTTTCTACTAAACATTACAA-3′; 18S forward, 5′-TAAGGATTGACAGACTGAGAGCT-3′; and 18S reverse, 5′-AATACATCAGTGTAGCGCGCGT-3′. C-Terminal fusions of the coding regions of RGXT1 and RGXT2 to EGFP under control of the 35S promoter were obtained using the pCambia 1301 vector (CAMBIA). The gusA gene in pCambia 1301 was cut out with NcoI and BstEII and replaced with EGFP amplified by PCR using the forward primer 5′-ATATCCATGGCACTAGTATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGAGC-3′, reverse primer 5′-ATATGGTCACCTTACGTTTCTCGTTCAGC-3′, and the pPZP111-EGFP (EGFP from pEGFP; Clontech) vector as template. Subsequently, the entire coding region of RGXT1 or RGXT2 was PCR amplified using the forward primer 5′-ATATGGATCCCCATGGAGCAGAAACAACATAT-3′ for RGXT1, 5′-ATATGGATCCCCATGGCGCAGAAACAACAGA-3′ for RGXT2 and reverse primer 5′-ATATACTAGTCTCTAATTTCCCTAATGGAG-3′ for RGXT1 and 5′-ATATACTAGTCTGCAATTTCCCTAATGGAG-3′ for RGXT2 and inserted in frame with the 5′-end of the EGFP sequence by cloning into the NcoI and SpeI sites, introducing two extra amino acids (Thr and Ser, indicated in Figure 7A) in the junction between the coding regions of RGXT1, RGXT2, and EGFP. The constructs were introduced into rosette leaves of Arabidopsis using biolistic particle bombardment (Helios Gene Gun; Bio-Rad) according to CITATION. Twenty-four hours after delivery, fluorescent epidermal cells were identified using CLSM (Leica DMREX; Leica Microsystems) with argon/krypton laser excitation. EGFP-derived fluorescence was detected using an excitation wavelength of 488 nm with the emission wavelength at 505 to 520 nm. For subcellular location studies, the bombarded rosette leaves were treated for 2 h with 100 μg mL−1 BFA (Sigma-Aldrich) or water as control. To confirm reproducibility of the observations, multiple cells from independent experiments were examined. BODIPY TR ceramide (Molecular Probes) stainings were performed following the manufacturer's protocols. For colocalization of EGFP and BODIPY TR, a 488-nm argon/krypton laser and a 633-nm helium/neon laser were used simultaneously, as described by CITATION. Sequence data from this article can be found in the NCBI data library under the following accession numbers: RGXT1, BK005829 (locus At4g01770); and RGXT2, BK005830 (locus At4g01750). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Immunoblot Analysis of Histidine-Tagged RGXT1 and RGXT2 Protein Expressed in High Five Cells. Supplemental Figure 2. MS-Guided HPLC Purification of the Product Obtained after Incubation of UDP-α-d-Xyl and Methyl α-l-Fucopyranoside with RGXT2. Supplemental Figure 3. NMR Spectra of Methyl α-d-Xylopyranosyl-(1,3)-α-l-Fucopyranoside in D2O (Sample from Supplemental Figure 2).
