!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis radial swelling mutant rsw10 showed ballooning of root trichoblasts, a lower than wild-type level of cellulose and altered levels of some monosaccharides in non-cellulosic polysaccharides. Map-based cloning showed that the mutated gene (At1g71100) encodes a ribose 5-phosphate isomerase (RPI) and that the rsw10 mutation replaces a conserved glutamic acid residue with lysine. Although RPI is intimately involved with many biochemical pathways, media supplementation experiments suggest that the visible phenotype results from a defect in the production of pyrimidine-based sugar–nucleotide compounds, most likely uridine 5′-diphosphate–glucose, the presumed substrate of cellulose synthase. Two of three RPI sequences in the nuclear genome are cytoplasmic, while the third has a putative chloroplast transit sequence. The sequence encoding both cytoplasmic enzymes could complement the mutation when expressed behind the CaMV 35S promoter, while fusion of the RSW10 promoter region to the GUS reporter gene established that the gene is expressed in many aerial tissues as well as the roots. The prominence of the rsw10 phenotype in roots probably reflects RSW10 being the only cytosolic RPI in this tissue and the gene encoding the plastid RPI being relatively weakly expressed. We could not, however, detect a decrease in total RPI activity in root extracts. The rsw10 phenotype is prominent near the root tip where cells undergo division, endoreduplication and cell expansion and so are susceptible to a restriction in de novo pyrimidine production. The two cytosolic RPIs probably arose in an ancient duplication event, their present expression patterns representing subfunctionalization of the expression of the original ancestral gene.
!~RES~! The rsw10 phenotype is pronounced in seedlings, especially after the transfer of plants initially grown at 21°C to the elevated temperature of 31°C (Figure 1a), but is not obvious in mature plants. Roots of rsw10 and wild-type seedlings have a nearly identical diameter after 5 days at 21°C but, after transfer to 31°C, rsw10 progressively increases in diameter between days 5 and 9 (Figure 1c). These increases in diameter in rsw10 are statistically highly significant but smaller than those produced by the temperature-sensitive allele of glucosidase II in rsw3 and much smaller than those produced by the rsw1 allele of the CesA1 glycosyltransferase. They mainly arise from bulging of epidermal cells, largely in trichoblast cell files, a phenotype reminiscent of rhd1/reb1 (CITATION) with its mutation in an allele of UDP–glucose 4-epimerase (CITATION). With longer periods at 31°C, root elongation and the elongation zone itself (as indicated by the distance from tip to root hair emergence) are drastically reduced. Bulging cells are seen progressively closer to the root tip until, after 4 days at 31°C, root hairs emerge in the region that would formerly have been the meristem (Figure 1a). [[FIGURE]] Hypocotyl swelling in rsw10 is constitutive in seedlings grown for 6 days at 21°C in the dark [wild-type: 228 ± 3 μm (SEM); rsw10: 269 ± 10 μm], and this swelling is slightly increased by growth for only 3 days at 21°C then transfer to 31°C for a further 3 days (wild-type: 281 ± 9 μm; rsw10: 349 ± 12 μm). Unlike roots, there is no prominent bulging of cells in the hypocotyl (Figure 1b) but rather a general swelling of the sort seen with cellulose-deficient mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The phenotype in mature, aerial parts of the plant is modest. Stem regrowth in rsw10 was reduced at 21°C and transfer to 31°C did not produce further inhibition. rsw10 flowers appeared morphologically normal and fully fertile, as did both leaves and trichromes. The mutated gene was located on the lower arm of chromosome 1 by analysing an F2 mapping population with cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) markers distributed over the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION). Further CAPS mapping placed the gene first in a 0.6 Mb region between markers SNP10623 and SNP186 (Figure 2), and then to a region of approximately 70 kb contained on the two overlapping bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs) F15H11 and F23N20. Assessment of complementation by BAC-derived cosmid clones forming a contig spanning this region placed the mutation in a region occupied by four annotated genes. Sequencing each gene showed only one mutation, a G to A replacement in the coding region of At1g71100, an open reading frame which has no predicted introns and encodes a protein with a predicted Mr of 28 314. The resultant Glu115Lys amino acid change substitutes a negatively charged residue with a positively charged one in the sequence of a putative RPI, an enzyme catalysing the interconversion of ribose 5-phosphate (R5P) and ribulose 5-phosphate (Ru5P) in both the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway and in the reductive pentose phosphate pathway (Calvin cycle; CITATION; Figure 3). Confirmation that the gene At1g71100 was indeed mutated in rsw10 was provided by complementation of the mutant phenotype with a clone containing only this gene and 800 bp of sequence upstream from the start codon. When RPI activity in root extracts was assayed, however, there was no significant difference in activity in rsw10 and wild type after 2 days of growth at 31°C. This held whether the assay itself was conducted at 31°C (wild type, 206 ± 26; rsw10, 187 ± 17) or 21°C (wild type, 383 ± 19; rsw10, 357 ± 29; all activities in nmol ribose 5-phosphate metabolized min−1 mg−1 protein ± SEM, n = 4). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] When we consider how a mutation in RPI might affect metabolism (Figure 3), in the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway, one molecule of glucose 6-phosphate is converted through three successive reactions to Ru5P, with the concurrent generation of two molecules of the reducing agent NADPH. Ribulose 5-phosphate is then converted to R5P by RPI and to xylulose 5-phosphate by an epimerase enzyme. Transaldolase and transketolase enzymes then convert these two compounds to fructose 6-phosphate and glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate, both of which can be utilized in glycolysis. However, R5P also serves as a precursor, via erythrose 4-phosphate, of the aromatic amino acids and, after conversion to 5-phosphoribosyl-α-pyrophosphate (PRPP), it forms the backbone of both purine and pyrimidine nucleotides, histidine and the NAD/NADP coenzymes. Therefore, the metabolic consequences of any RPI mutation potentially reach into many areas of metabolism. The radial swelling phenotype of rsw10 strongly suggested a defect in cell wall biosynthesis, particularly given the close resemblance to the reb1 phenotype where cell wall polysaccharide composition is altered (CITATION). We therefore analysed the yield of monosaccharides from cellulosic and non-cellulosic polysaccharides using a cell wall fraction prepared from whole seedlings grown for 2 days at 20°C and 5 days at 30°C. The results showed a reduction in cellulosic glucose in the mutant, whereas the matrix polysaccharides showed a small reduction in fucose, increases in arabinose and to a lesser degree xylose, and no significant change in the levels of rhamnose, mannose or galactose (Figure 4). [[FIGURE]] As rsw10 was characterized by a significant reduction in cellulose, and the phenotype of the hypocotyl resembled that observed in other cellulose-deficient mutants, we focused on how a defective RPI could change the quantity of this polymer. The most obvious link appeared to be through the activated sugar UDP–glucose, which is believed to be the substrate donor of glucose residues for the growing cellulose chain (CITATION). Uridine 5′-diphosphate–glucose can be formed by either the activity of sucrose synthase (CITATION) or UDP–glucose pyrophosphorylase (CITATION), the former utilizing UDP, the latter UTP. All uridine nucleotides are ultimately metabolic products from the activity of RPI (Figure 3), although efficient salvage pathways exist to ensure that nucleosides are reused (Figure 5a). As such, we tested the importance of nucleotide supply in generating the visible phenotype by supplementing the growth medium with the nucleosides uridine and inosine, which were favoured because they are expected to enter cells via equilibrative nucleoside transporters and be metabolized by the purine and pyrimidine salvage pathways (Figure 5a; CITATION). Uridine and inosine (guanosine) kinases (EC2.7.1.48; EC2.7.1.73), and nucleoside phosphotransferases (EC2.7.1.77), are expected to convert the respective nucleosides to nucleoside 5′-monophosphates, and hence to the other nucleotide derivatives (Figure 5a; CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Root elongation and swelling was measured in seedlings of the radial swelling mutants rsw10, rsw1 (defective in the glycosyltransferase CesA1; CITATION) and rsw3 (defective in the α-subunit of glucosidase II, a protein required for N-glycosylation and quality control in the endoplasmic reticulum; CITATION). Seedlings were grown at 21°C for 5 days and then transferred to media supplemented with either uridine and/or inosine for 2 days at 31°C. Uridine only (either alone or in conjunction with inosine) suppressed the mutant root phenotype of rsw10, but not the phenotypes of rsw1 or rsw3 (Figure 5b). For unknown reasons, uridine had a slightly inhibitory effect on growth. Epidermal bulging was almost completely suppressed in rsw10. Medium was also supplemented with UDP–glucose, but here suppression of the rsw10 phenotype was less complete (Figure 5b), a situation that was not improved by raising the concentration in the medium to 10 or 20 mm (data not shown). This less complete rescue may reflect two factors. First, inefficient transfer of this metabolite across the plasma membrane compared to the transfer of uridine via equilibrative nucleoside transporters. Secondly, each uridine entering the cell can be converted to UDP–glucose and donate numerous glucose residues as it is regenerated so minimizing any advantage enjoyed by UDP–glucose directly entering the cell. The failure of uridine to even partially rescue the phenotypes of rsw1 and rsw3 implies both that it does not provide a general stimulus for elongation growth at the expense of radial growth, and that of the mutants tested only rsw10 is limited in the production of this compound and/or its derivatives. The strong similarity between the visual phenotypes of reb1 and rsw10, and their rescue by exogenous galactose (CITATION) and uridine, respectively, led us to test both mutants on media containing either galactose or uridine. Galactose rescued reb1 (as found by CITATION) but not rsw10, whereas uridine rescued rsw10 but not reb1 (Figure 6). Hence, despite the similar trichoblast swelling in the two mutants and the fact that UDP–glucose is a substrate of the REB1 UDP–glucose-4-epimerase (CITATION), the metabolic origin of their respective phenotypes is distinct, as reflected in their differing response to medium supplementation. [[FIGURE]] Arabidopsis has three nuclear genes which putatively encode RPIs: At1g71100, At2g01290 and At3g04790 (TAIR database; CITATION; CITATION). Analysis by TargetP and psort suggests that the first two predicted proteins lack transit peptide sequences consistent with cytosolic locations. The third has a sequence with a presumptive N-terminal chloroplast transit peptide, and is probably the enzyme associated with the Calvin cycle. A fourth gene, At5g44520, has some similarity with these proteins, but as it appears to lack the amino acids critical for activity (CITATION) it probably catalyses a different biochemical reaction. The predicted cytosolic locations of the At1g71100 and At2g01290 proteins were confirmed by the fusion of each to the N-terminus of green fluorescent protein (GFP). In each case the recombinant GFP protein localized to the cytoplasm (Supplementary Figure S1), a pattern identical to that observed with yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) lacking any organelle targeting sequences. The functional activity of the At1g71100 RPI–GFP fusion protein was confirmed by its ability to complement the rsw10 mutant phenotype. The development of a phenotype in rsw10 shows that the At2g01290 gene product either catalyses a different reaction to the At1g71100 (RSW10) gene product, or that the activity of the enzyme encoded by At2g01290 is quantitatively insufficient to meet the plant's requirements on its own, or that the genes have entirely different spatial and/or temporal modes of expression. To examine the first alternative we cloned separately the coding sequences of both At1g71100 and At2g01290 into vectors such that they were expressed by the constitutively active CaMV 35S promoter, and then transformed these into the rsw10 background. Both constructs suppressed the root phenotype of the mutant (Supplementary Figure S2), showing that the phenotype developed when the At1g71100 gene product is defective in rsw10 is not due to At2g01290 encoding a protein catalysing a different reaction, but rather that its activity in roots is inadequate after the mutation of At1g71100. We therefore examined the expression of the three Arabidopsis RPI genes through the massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS) global expression data (CITATION; http://mpss.udel.edu/at/). At1g71100 (RSW10) is transcribed in roots, leaves and young seedlings, and to a minor degree in inflorescences and siliques, while At2g01290 is active in leaves, floral tissues and siliques but, significantly, not in roots or seedlings where the rsw10 phenotype is strong (Figure 7). At3g04790 encoding (the putative chloroplast enzyme) is expressed quite strongly in all tissues, but particularly in siliques, leaves and seedlings (all aerial tissues). [[FIGURE]] To look in more detail at the expression pattern of At1g71100 (RSW10), we cloned the promoter region of this gene in front of the uid (GUS) reporter gene (CITATION), producing the construct At1g71100pro::GUS which was transformed into Arabidopsis. Histochemical staining of tissues in transgenic seedlings showed that the At1g71100 promoter was active in the cotyledons, lower hypocotyls and roots (Figure 8a–c). Near the root tip, expression was limited to cells towards the distal end of the elongation zone, corresponding to the approximate region where trichoblast and general root swelling occurred in rsw10. Behind the elongation zone, there was expression in epidermis and cortex and strong staining in the vascular tissue and young lateral roots until, with further extension, they came to resemble the primary root in having no expression near the tip. In 3-week-old At1g71100pro::GUS plants, GUS activity was observed in the rosette leaves, while in mature flowers expression was observed in the anthers and stigma, and the vascular tissue of the sepals, petals and stamens (Figure 8d). The strong expression in flowers contrasts with the low level of activity of At1g71100 in the whole inflorescence as indicated by the MPSS data. [[FIGURE]] Finally, we examined the possible evolutionary origin of the two cytosolic RPIs. Analysis of the complete sequence of the Arabidopsis genome has revealed that it is probably the product of a number of rounds of polyploidy, each event being followed by rearrangement of chromosomal segments and selective gene loss (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In particular there appears to have been a major whole-genome duplication event between the divergence of the Arabidopsis lineage from the Leguminosae and the subsequent Arabidopsis–Brassica split. Analysis of the duplicated blocks of the Arabidopsis genome suggested by the CITATION failed to show that the two cytosolic RPI genes were part of any annotated region of duplication. However, examination of the blocks proposed by a more recent study, in which one set is believed to represent the single major genome duplication event prior to the Arabidopsis–Brassica split and a second set the earlier duplication events (CITATION), places the two RPI genes in the latter category, implying that they originate from an ancient duplication event. GenBank searches identified sequences of presumptive Brassica oleracea orthologues of both At1g71100 (BH956908, BH593831) and At2g01290 (BZ518336, BH662029), but it was not possible to identify orthologues in any other species. The contrasting expression patterns of At1g71100 and At2g01290 suggest that these RPI genes may provide an example of subfunctionalization (CITATION) where two genes arising by duplication acquire independent subfunctions of the original single gene, with both being required to reproduce the ancestral expression pattern (CITATION; CITATION).
!~MM~! The rsw10 mutant was obtained by screening ethyl methane sulphonate mutagenized seed of A. thaliana ecotype Columbia as described for rsw1 and other mutants (CITATION). The molecular lesions in rsw1 and rsw3 have been described (CITATION; CITATION). General conditions for plant growth and analysis of morphology were as described (CITATION). Root diameters (Figure 1c) were measured between bulging trichoblast cells so reflecting underlying cell swelling. Stem growth was measured after cutting off newly emerged primary bolts on plants grown at 21°C and following the growth of secondary stems at either 21 or 31°C (CITATION). Transformation by floral dipping (CITATION) used constructs transformed into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens AGL1 strain via electroporation (CITATION). Standard DNA manipulations were performed essentially following CITATION. Sequencing used an ABI 3730 machine (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA) with the Big-Dye fluorescent dye adaptation of the dideoxy chain terminator method. The DNA sequences were assembled with the assemblyLign (Oxford Molecular Group, Oxford, UK) program. Protein sequences were analysed for putative transit peptides with TargetP and psort (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk and http://www.psort.org; CITATION; CITATION). Initial mapping of a F2 population from a cross with the Landsberg erecta ecotype used pooled DNA isolated with the Fast DNA kit (Q-BIOgene, Carlsbad, CA, USA) and the genome-wide markers described by CITATION. Further mapping used DNA from individual plants and CAPS markers acquired from the TAIR database (http://www.arabidopsis.org) or established in this laboratory by multiple restriction enzyme digestion of PCR-amplified fragments. A cosmid library for the BACs F15H11 and F23N20 (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Centre, OH, USA) was constructed by partial TaqI digestion and ligation of fragments into the ClaI site of the binary vector pOCA28, a derivative of pOCA18 (CITATION) carrying a spectomycin resistance gene for selection in bacteria. Partially digested BAC DNA was size selected to be in the 20–30 kb range by pilot digestions with differing quantities of enzyme over a defined time period and purified on a 10–40% sucrose gradient. End sequencing with the primers 5′-CTAGTATCTACGACACAC-3′ and 5′-CGATTTTTGTGATGCTCGTC-3′ was used to position inserts on chromosome 1 and hence construct a contig. The rsw10 mutant was transformed with selected cosmid clones to find clones that suppressed radial swelling and promoted root elongation when T1 plants were exposed to 30°C for 2 days, conditions that inhibited elongation and promoted radial swelling in the mutant. Before transfer to 30°C, the position of the root tip was marked with a scratch on the Petri dish so that, at the end of the experiment, the extension growth at 30°C was readily apparent. The complementing clones located the mutation to one of four genes that were all sequenced. To confirm complementation was due to At1g71100, a coding sequence fragment was PCR amplified from Columbia DNA (primers 5′-TTCGAGCTCACCGTTGAGACTACTG-3′ and 5′-ATCGAGCTCGTTTACTTTCACGAAAC-3′), digested with SacI and cloned into the binary vector pBIN19 (CITATION). Wild-type Columbia, rsw10, rsw1-1 (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, CS6564) and rsw3 (CS6556) seeds were germinated on vertical plates containing agar with Hoagland's medium (CITATION). After 5 days at 21°C, representatives of each genotype were transferred to fresh plates containing Hoagland's medium with either 5 mm uridine (Sigma U3750, St Louis, MO, USA), 5 mm inosine (Sigma I4125), 5, 10 or 20 mm UDP–glucose (Sigma U4625) or no addition and the position of the root tip was marked on the base of the plate. The chemical additions were filter sterilized, added after autoclaving of the main medium and did not change the pH. Plates were incubated at 31°C for a further 2 days and values for the increase in root length after transfer were averaged for 20 plants. To compare rsw10 and reb1, seedlings grown as above were transferred to plates containing either 5 mm uridine or 5 mmd-galactose. Root elongation was measured after a further 2 days at 31°C (rsw10 and wild-type controls) or at 21°C (reb1 and controls). Analysis of cell wall composition was as described by CITATION. Vectors for the constitutive expression of the At1g71100 and At2g01290 genes were constructed by PCR amplification of the coding sequences from Columbia DNA, digestion with appropriate restriction enzymes, and cloning into the vector pART7, and thence into pART27 (CITATION). Primers used were 5′-AAAGGTACCGTCAAATACGAATACGATTC-3′ and 5′-TACGGATCCAGAGAGAATCCATCGAAAATC-3′ to make 35S::At1g71100 (digested with KpnI and BamHI), and 5′-TTTGGTACCTGTCGGGATTTCGAATGG-3′ and 5′-TCATCTAGAAGAGGTGTGGTGTGTGTT-3′ to make 35S::At2g01290 (digested with KpnI and XbaI). T1 seedlings were assessed for complementation as described under Map-based cloning of the rsw10 mutation. Fusion of the promoter of the RPI gene At1g71100 with the bacterial uid (β-glucuronidase/GUS) gene was accomplished by ligation of a PCR product from Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia into the GUS binary vector pCAMBIA 1305.1 (CAMBIA, Canberra, Australia). The primer pair 5′-TTCGAGCTCACCGTTGAGACTACTG-3′/5′-AACCCATGGTACGCGACTTGC-3′ was used to amplify 800 bp upstream from the start codon of At1g71100. The PCR product was cleaved with NcoI/SacI and ligated into the vector pCAMBIA 1305.1. The resulting plasmid At1g71100pro::GUS was introduced into Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. β-Glucuronidase expression was examined on homozygous T3 plants by first immersing the tissue briefly in 70% v/v acetone, transferring to an infiltration medium [50 mm sodium phosphate pH 7.2/1 mm EDTA/0.5% v/v Triton X-100/1 mm X-Gluc (Duchefa, Haarlem, Netherlands)], repeatedly applying and releasing a vacuum for 2 h, and then incubating overnight at 37°C. Chlorophyll was removed by washing with increasing concentrations of ethanol (30–100%) and tissue was visualized and photographed by light microscopy. For examination of the intracellular location of the RPI proteins produced by At1g71100 and At2g01290, the respective proteins were fused to the N-terminus of the GFP from Aequoria victoria. The primer pairs 5′-GTACCATGGGTTCTGCATTCGATCCCC-3′/5′-ACTCCATGGCAAACCTATCCTTGACGGTAA-3′ and 5′-TCCCCATGGCGCTTGCGTATGATCCTC-3′/5′-TGTCCATGGGTTTGTTCTTGATCTTAAC-3′ were used to PCR amplify the coding sequences of the genes At1g71100 and At2g01290, respectively, from Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia. Products were cleaved with NcoI and ligated individually into the NcoI site of the vector pCAMBIA 1302, thus fusing each sequence in frame with the GFP sequence and allowing CaMV 35S-driven expression of the respective fusion proteins (At1g71100RPI–GFP and At2g01290RPI–GFP). The constructs, and as a negative control the empty vector, were transformed into wild-type Columbia and the roots of T1 plants examined by confocal microscopy (Leica Model SP2, Wetzlar, Germany; 488 nm excitation, 500–550 nm emission, 63× numerical aperture 1.2 water-immersion lens). As positive control for a cytosolic location, seedlings expressing a YFP construct without organelle targeting sequences (gift of Dr Madeleine Rashbrooke) were viewed under similar conditions. At1g71100RPI–GFP was also transformed into rsw10 to confirm its ability to complement the mutant phenotype. The RPI gene expression established by MPSS was obtained from the Arabidopsis MPSS database (http://mpss.udel.edu/at/). Expression of At2g01290 and At3g04790 was similar in both ‘classic’ and ‘signature’ libraries, whereas At1g71100 was virtually undetectable in all ‘classic’ libraries, probably reflecting some intrinsic feature of this transcript. For consistency therefore, only data derived from the ‘signature’ method are presented for all three genes. The sequences of the three Arabidopsis RPI genes were analysed for their evolutionary origin by examination of the duplicated blocks found by the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative (http://www.tigr.org/tdb/e2k1/ath1/Arabidopsis_genome_duplication.shtml) and the blocks (http://wolfe.gen.tcd.ie/athal/dup) found by CITATION. The RPI enzyme activity was measured in extracts from root tissue of wild-type and rsw10 plants grown on agar for 6 days at 21°C followed by 2 days at 31°C. The assay involved coupling the activity of RPI to phospho-ribulose kinase, pyruvate kinase and lactate dehydrogenase, and spectrophotometrically measuring the oxidation of NADH at 340 nm. Root tissue (approximately 0.15 g) was extracted in 1 ml of ice-cold extraction buffer [50 mmN-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine-N-3-propanesulphonic acid (EPPS)–NaOH (pH 8.0), 1 mm EDTA, 1% (w/v) polyvinylpolypyrrolidone, 0.1% (v/v) plant protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma P9599)]. A 10 μl aliquot was added to 980 μl of assay buffer (50 mm EPPS–NaOH pH 8.0, 20 mm MgCl2, 1 mm EDTA) containing 0.1 mm NADH, 2 mm ATP, 10 mm DTT, 2 mm phosphoenolpyruvate, 0.04 mg pyruvate kinase/lactate dehydrogenase (Roche 10737291001, Basel, Switzerland), and phosphoribulokinase (recombinant Synechococcus PCC7942, purified from E. coli, a kind gift of Dr S. Whitney, Research School of Biological Sciences, Australian National University, Canberra, Australia). Reaction mixtures were incubated for 5 min prior to initiating the assay of enzyme activity by adding 10 μl of 100 mm ribose-5-phosphate. The rate of NADH oxidation was monitored for 15 min using a Hewlett Packard (Palo Alto, CA, USA) diode array spectrophotometer. Differences were assessed for significance at the 5% level using the Student's t-test.
