!~ABS~! Assembly of plant Shaker subunits as heterotetramers, increasing channel functional diversity, has been reported. Here we focus on a new interaction, between AKT2 and KAT2 subunits. The assembly as AKT2/KAT2 heterotetramers is demonstrated by (i) a strong signal in two-hybrid tests with intracytoplasmic C-terminal regions, (ii) the effect of KAT2 on AKT2 subunit targeting in tobacco cells, (iii) the complete inhibition of AKT2 currents by co-expression with a dominant-negative KAT2 subunit in Xenopus oocytes, and reciprocally, and (iv) the appearance, upon co-expression of wild-type AKT2 and KAT2 subunits, of new channel functional properties that cannot be explained by the co-existence of two kinds of homotetrameric channels. In particular, the instantaneous current, characteristic of AKT2, displayed new functional features when compared with those of AKT2 homotetramers: activation by external acidification (instead of inhibition) and weak inhibition by calcium. Single channel current measurements in oocytes co-expressing AKT2 and KAT2 revealed a strong preference for incorporation of subunits into heteromultimers and a diversity of individual channels. In planta, these new channels, which may undergo specific regulations, are likely to be formed in guard cells and in the phloem, where they could participate in the control of membrane potential and potassium fluxes. 
!~RES~! Detection of Interactions by Two-hybrid Tests in Yeast— Large C-terminal intracytoplasmic regions of KAT1 and KAT2 (Fig. 1A) were used as baits to screen an Arabidopsis cDNA library using the two-hybrid system in yeast. Expected outcomes of such a screening procedure were partner proteins interacting with these two subunits of Arabidopsis Shaker-like K+ channels. With both baits, two different cDNAs were isolated: KAT1 and AKT2 (not shown). Interactions between KAT1 and KAT2 (36) and between KAT1 and AKT2 (35) had already been reported but not between KAT2 and AKT2. This last interaction appeared interesting for two reasons: the very high level of reporter gene activation in the two-hybrid test and the known co-localization of AKT2 and KAT2 gene expression in phloem and guard cells.  The interaction between AKT2 and KAT2 was further studied in a series of two-hybrid tests in which the C-terminal region of each of these two putative partners was fused either to the DNA-binding domain (i.e. as the bait, pGBT9 vector) or to the activation domain (i.e. as the prey, pACT2 vector) of the GAL4 transcription factor (Fig. 1B). In negative controls (when one of the pGBT9 or pACT2 vectors was left empty), there was no activity of the reporter gene (Fig. 1B, four upper lanes). When KAT2 was used as the bait, an interaction was observed with both KAT2 and AKT2 (fifth and sixth lanes, respectively). AKT2 as the bait also interacted with AKT2 and KAT2 (seventh and eighth lanes, respectively). The highest expression level of the reporter gene was obtained in the latter of these combinations.    [[FIGURE]] Driving of AKT2 to the Plasma Membrane by KAT2 Subunits in Plant Cells—When KAT2-GFP was expressed alone in tobacco protoplasts, it was targeted to the plasma membrane (Fig. 2A). In the same conditions, when expressed alone or co-expressed with untagged AKT2, AKT2-GFP remained in intracellular structures that might be identified as Golgi vesicles or aggregates (Fig. 2B). A plasma membrane localization was never observed, either in the 41 protoplasts we have scanned or in the much larger population of protoplasts we have observed under the microscope. On the contrary, co-transfection of untagged KAT2 with AKT2-GFP often resulted in a shift of part of the fluorescence to the plasma membrane (Fig. 2C), the absence of plasma membrane localization in some cells probably being due to absence of KAT2 expression. The day following transfection (24-30 h), 40-60% of the protoplasts displayed (partial) plasma membrane localization of the fluorescence.    [[FIGURE]] Use of Dominant-negative Mutants to Reveal Co-assembly of AKT2 and KAT2 in Xenopus Oocytes—Point mutations in the pore (P-domain) of plant Shaker subunits have been reported to yield dominant-negative mutant (DNM) subunits (35, 57), able to inactivate the channels in which they are incorporated. In other words, co-expression of such DNM subunits with wild-type subunits results in the absence of channel activity (i.e. of exogenous current). We introduced mutations similar to those carried by the previously studied GORK-DNM subunit (35, 57) in the P-domains of KAT2 and AKT2; the GYGD motif, hallmark of K+ selectivity, was mutated to RRGD. It was first checked that expression of the resulting mutant subunits produced electrically silent (or not properly targeted or unstable) channels in Xenopus oocytes (Fig. 3, KAT2-DNM and AKT2-DNM). Although control oocytes expressing only wild-type subunits displayed a large inward conductance (Fig. 3, KAT2-WT and AKT2-WT), co-expression of mutant subunits with the corresponding wild-type subunits resulted in a virtually null inward current (Fig. 3, KAT2-WT + KAT2-DNM and AKT2-WT + AKT2-DNM). Thus, the whole set of data indicated that the KAT2-DNM and AKT2-DNM subunits had indeed a dominant-negative capability, i.e. that they interacted with the wild-type polypeptide, leading to formation of channels that were not functional. Co-expressing AKT2-DNM with KAT2 or KAT2-DNM with AKT2 also resulted in the absence of any significant inward currents (Fig. 3). Along with the results of the two-hybrid tests, this provided further evidence that AKT2 and KAT2 polypeptides can actually interact and form heteromeric channels when they are co-expressed in Xenopus oocytes.  Functional Properties of AKT2/KAT2 Heterotetramers—It was then investigated whether operation of AKT2/KAT2 heteromeric channels could be assessed from currents recorded in Xenopus oocytes after injection with a mix of wild-type KAT2 and AKT2 cRNA solutions. In parallel, control currents were recorded in oocytes from the same batch, injected with pure water, KAT2 cRNA, or AKT2 cRNA. Typical recordings are shown in Fig. 4, A-C.    [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] As reminded by data displayed in Fig. 4, A and B, KAT2 and AKT2 belong to different functional subgroups of the Shaker family of Arabidopsis voltage-gated K+ channel subunits (29). KAT2 forms channels mediating a time-dependent current below a negative membrane potential threshold (36, 58, 59), whereas AKT2 forms channels mediating both a time-dependent current (as do KAT2 channels) and an instantaneous current present at any physiological membrane potential (44, 46, 60-62), these two types of current being generated by two AKT2 populations differing by their phosphorylation state (61). Concerning the kinetics and voltage dependence of the macroscopic currents recorded in the AKT2/KAT2 co-injected oocytes (Fig. 4C), a simple hypothesis was that the channel activity corresponded to the summed contributions of KAT2 and AKT2, both present as homotetramers. The averaged I-V curves (steady-state current versus membrane potential, Fig. 4D) led, however, to rule out this hypothesis. Indeed, no given linear combination of the two AKT2 and KAT2 I-V curves (x.AKT2 + y.KAT2) could account for the shape of the AKT2/KAT2 I-V average curve in the whole voltage range. Similarly, although the deactivation kinetics of the tail current recorded at the holding potential was mono-exponential in A and B, it seemed to be bi-exponential in panel C, but this could not be ascribed to linearly combined contributions of AKT2 and KAT2 homomers (not shown). These results suggested that heteromeric channels were functional in AKT2/KAT2 co-injected oocytes and contributed to the recorded currents.  In AKT2/KAT2 co-expressing oocytes, six kinds of tetramers could be theoretically formed: KAT2 and AKT2 homotetramers, which can respectively be named KKKK and AAAA, and four different heterotetramers, which can be labeled AAAK, AKAK, AAKK, KKKA (where K and A indicate the presence of a KAT2 or an AKT2 subunit in the tetrameric structure, respectively). Since KAT2 mediates time-dependent current only, instantaneous currents recorded in oocytes co-expressing KAT2 and AKT2 can be ascribed to the activity of AKT2 homomers or, possibly, of AKT2/KAT2 heteromers (if the presence of AKT2 subunits in heteromeric channels confers the ability to mediate instantaneous current). Thus, it was investigated whether the instantaneous fraction of the currents recorded either in AKT2-expressing or in AKT2/KAT2 co-expressing oocytes showed differences that could reveal the existence of at least one kind of functional heteromer in the latter oocytes.  The AKT2 instantaneous current has been shown to decrease when the external concentration of Ca2+ or H+ is increased (44, 46, 63), whereas the KAT2 current has been reported to be essentially insensitive to external Ca2+ (59) and stimulated by lowering the external pH (36). We have therefore compared the effect of extracellular Ca2+ and pH on the instantaneous fraction of the currents recorded on AKT2-expressing or AKT2/KAT2 co-expressing oocytes (Fig. 5). In our experimental conditions, 10 mm Ca2+ produced a voltage-dependent block of the instantaneous inward current recorded on AKT2-expressing oocytes (Fig. 5A, white bars), in line with previously published data (44, 46). In AKT2/KAT2 co-expressing oocytes, the instantaneous inward current was poorly affected (less than 10% inhibition) in an essentially voltage-independent way (Fig. 5A, black bars). Since as stated above, KAT2 homomers are not contributing to the instantaneous current, it can be concluded that heteromers associating AKT2 and KAT2 subunits are functional in AKT2/KAT2 co-expressing oocytes and have functional properties different from those of AKT2 homomers.    [[FIGURE]] Similar experiments were performed, based on the same kind of rationale, regarding the effect of the extracellular pH on the instantaneous current. Although the instantaneous fraction of the current was inhibited by acidification of the bath solution (from pH 7.5 to 6.0) in oocytes expressing AKT2 only, as reported previously (44, 46, 63), it was stimulated in AKT2/KAT2 co-expressing oocytes (Fig. 5B). This provides further support to the hypothesis that AKT2/KAT2 heteromers contribute to the current when both subunits are co-expressed.  Single channel patch clamp experiments were then performed with the aim of getting access to the properties of AKT2/KAT2 heteromers at the molecular level. The cell-attached configuration was used because AKT2 and KAT2 currents display rundown after patch clamp excision (44, 46, 60). The single channel conductance of AKT2 and KAT2 homomers obtained in AKT2- or KAT2-expressing oocytes (22 ± 2 picosiemens, n = 3, and 10.6 ± 0.2 picosiemens, n = 3, respectively) were similar to those already published (36, 44, 46, 60). Single channel recordings obtained on AKT2/KAT2 co-injected oocytes yielded complex data; plotting the single channel currents against membrane potential demonstrated a strong variation of the current level at any given potential (Fig. 6). This variability was likely to be due to the activity of different channel types, probably resulting from different heteromeric combinations of AKT2 and KAT2 subunits (64). Currents typical of AKT2 or KAT2 homotetrameric channels were not recorded in AKT2/KAT2 co-expressing oocytes. Out of 44 recorded single channel currents (in 19 independent patches), none corresponded to the conductance of 22 picosiemens, which would have been generated by AKT2 homotetramers. This indicates that AKT2 homotetramers were rare or absent in our AKT2/KAT2 co-injected oocytes. Similarly, in most of the recorded patches, analysis of the voltage dependence of the current fluctuations led to a slope-conductance value reminiscent of that of KAT2, around 10 picosiemens, but the underlying channels remained active at membrane potential above (more positive than) -80 mV, i.e. in a voltage range where KAT2 homomers are normally closed, indicating that these unitary currents were not mediated by KAT2 homotetramers but probably by AKT2/KAT2 heterotetramers.    [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Yeast Two-hybrid cDNA Library Screening—Plasmids pGBT9-KAT1 and pGBT9-KAT2 allowing, respectively, the synthesis of KAT1 and KAT2 channel C-terminal parts fused to the DNA-binding domain of GAL4 were described previously (36). These constructs were used to screen an Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA library prepared with the GAL4 activation domain plasmid pGAD10 (MATCHMAKER, Clontech), using for transformation the lithium acetate method, as described in Chérel et al. (48). Transformed cells were spread directly on minimal medium lacking histidine, leucine, and tryptophane (plating medium described in Ref. 2, without histidine) supplemented with 50 mm 3-aminotriazole. Positive colonies were screened for β-galactosidase activity using a filter-lift assay (49). pGAD10 plasmids were isolated from yeast colonies displaying a positive phenotype and amplified in Escherichia coli. Plasmid inserts were sequenced and compared with the GenBank™ data base by BLAST search analysis (50).  Yeast Two-hybrid Assays—The C-terminal region of AKT2 was previously cloned in pGBT9 (48), yielding the (bait) construct named pGBT9-AKT2. The plasmids used for the expression of AKT2 and KAT2 C-terminal regions fused to the GAL4 activation domain (prey constructs) are the previously described plasmids pACT2-AKT2 and pACT2-KAT2 (36, 37). Binary combinations of bait/prey plasmids were incorporated into yeast by the lithium acetate procedure (51). Standard methodology was used to isolate transformants and to perform quantitative assays of β-galactosidase (49). This enzymatic activity was measured by following the hydrolysis of o-nitrophenyl-β-d-galactopyranoside in liquid medium.  GFP Imaging—AKT2 and KAT2 cDNAs were amplified by PCR and cloned into pLoc and pFunct (52) for expression of GFP3-tagged and untagged channel subunits, respectively. The resulting plasmids were introduced by co-transfection into tobacco mesophyll protoplasts according to Hosy et al. (52). Protoplasts were visualized for GFP fluorescence under a Zeiss confocal microscope (LSM510 AX70 Zeiss, Göttingen, Germany). The excitation was obtained with a beam splitter HFT 488 nm, and the emitted radiations were selected with two filters: BP 505-530 for GFP; LP 585 for chlorophyll.    Plasmids Used for Electrophysiological Measurements—All constructs were made according to standard methods (53) and verified by sequencing. The AKT2 and KAT2 cDNAs were cloned in pGEMHE (54). The AKT2 and KAT2 cDNA dominant-negative mutant constructs (pGEMHE-AKT2-DNM and pGEMHE-KAT2-DNM) were obtained as described previously (30).  Expression in Xenopus Oocytes and Electrophysiology—In vitro transcriptions were performed using the mMESSAGE mMACHINE kit (Ambion) following the manufacturer's instructions. Xenopus oocytes were purchased from the Centre de Recherche en Biochimie Macromoléculaire (CNRS, Montpellier, France). Stage V-VI oocytes were injected with a final volume of 50 nl (50 ng) of various cRNA AKT2-KAT2 combinations using a 10-15-μm tip diameter micropipette and a pneumatic injector. Co-injections were systematically performed at an equimolar concentration ratio. Injected oocytes were then maintained at 18 °C for 3-5 days in modified ND-96 solution (2 mm KCl, 96 mm NaCl, 1 mm MgCl2, 1.8 mm CaCl2,5 mm HEPES, 2.5 mm sodium pyruvate, pH 7.5) supplemented with gentamycin sulfate (50 μg/ml).  Whole-cell currents from oocytes were recorded 3-5 days after injection as described previously (55) using the two-microelectrode voltage clamp technique. The bath solution, containing (unless otherwise stated) 10 mm KCl, 90 mm NaCl, 1 mm CaCl2, 1.5 mm MgCl2, and 10 mm HEPES-NaOH (pH 7.5), except in the pH 6.0 experiments of Fig. 5, in which the medium was buffered with MES-NaOH (pH 6.0) was continuously perfused through the chamber. For patch clamp experiments, cell-attached patch recordings were performed on devitellinized oocytes based on methods previously described (56). Voltagepulse protocol application, data acquisition, and data analysis were performed using pClamp software version 9.0 (Axon Instruments) and Sigmaplot software (Jandel Scientific).  Control electrophysiological recordings in media supplemented with 10 mm CsCl were performed systematically, as described previously (44), to ensure that currents recorded were generated essentially by potassium-selective channels. All experiments were performed at room temperature (20-22 °C). 
