!~ABS~! Intracellular release of calcium ions belongs to the earliest events in cellular stress perception. The molecular mechanisms integrating signals from different environmental cues and translating them into an optimized response are largely unknown. We report here the functional characterization of CIPK1, a protein kinase interacting strongly with the calcium sensors CBL1 and CBL9. Comparison of the expression patterns indicates that the three proteins execute their functions in the same tissues. Physical interaction of CIPK1 with CBL1 and CBL9 targets the kinase to the plasma membrane. We show that, similarly to loss of CBL9 function, mutation of either CBL1 or CIPK1 renders plants hypersensitive to osmotic stress. Remarkably, in contrast to the cbl1 mutant and similarly to the cbl9 mutant, loss of CIPK1 function impairs abscisic acid (ABA) responsiveness. We therefore suggest that, by alternative complex formation with either CBL1 or CBL9, the kinase CIPK1 represents a convergence point for ABA-dependent and ABA-independent stress responses. Based on our genetic, physiological and protein–protein interaction data, we propose a general model for information processing in calcium-regulated signalling networks.
!~RES~! We have previously identified CIPK1 as a Ser/Thr protein kinase that interacts with both CBL1 and CBL9 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The aims of the present study were to elucidate the in vivo functions of CIPK1 through a reverse-genetics approach and to unravel the functional interconnections of CIPK1 within the CBL/CIPK signalling network. To investigate the functional relationship of CBL1 and CIPK1 in planta, we first analysed comparatively the expression patterns of both genes. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analyses revealed that, in adult Arabidopsis plants, both CBL1 and CIPK1 are expressed ubiquitously in all tissues examined, although expression levels appeared to be somewhat lower in roots and stems (Figure 1a). To study CBL1 and CIPK1 expression in greater detail, we generated transgenic lines expressing promoter–uidA reporter gene constructs for both genes. Expression of the reporter gene cassettes was monitored by histochemical GUS staining of six independent lines for each construct in the F2 generation (Figure 1b). In roots of rosette plants, expression of CBL1 and CIPK1 was strongest in the growth zone within the root tip, extended into the vascular stele, but was not detectable in mature regions of the root. In leaves, expression of both genes was detected with GUS activity increasing in older leaves and being strongest in senescing cotyledons (Figure 1b). Within the leaf, the strongest expression of the reporter gene was seen in the vascular tissue. Analysis of CBL1 and CIPK1 promoter activities in flowers indicated that expression of both genes is restricted to the anthers of the stamens and the stigma of the carpel (Figure 1b). In maturing siliques, expression of neither CBL1 nor CIPK1 was detectable. We also monitored the expression of CIPK1 during early seedling development, the phase in which many stress-related phenotypic assays are usually performed. One-day-old seedlings exhibited a strong and uniformly distributed promoter activity (Figure 1c). This expression pattern was also confirmed by RT-PCR (Figure 1d). As the seedlings developed further, the CIPK1 expression pattern became more and more similar to that detected in adult plants, with expression in the root occurring predominantly in the root tip and the vascular stele, and expression in leaves being more-or-less ubiquitous but particularly strong in vascular tissues. [[FIGURE]] Analysis of the data collected in the AtGenExpress developmental expression atlas (CITATION) and the AtGenExpress stress expression data set (http://arabidopsis.org/info/expression/ATGenExpress.jsp) confirmed the observed expression patterns and, moreover, did not provide indications of a significant regulation of CIPK1 mRNA accumulation in response to abiotic stresses. Taken together, our expression analyses indicate that the calcium sensor CBL1 and the interacting protein kinase CIPK1 execute their function(s) in the same plant tissues. Remarkably, the expression patterns of both genes are nearly identical with that of the recently described calcium sensor CBL9 (CITATION) as revealed by side-by-side comparison of GUS activities in leaves, roots and flowers (Figure S1). This somewhat surprising finding has prompted us to include CBL9 in our protein–protein interaction studies with CIPK1. The N-terminal sequence of both CBL1 and CBL9 harbours a conserved myristoylation motif suggesting a membrane localization of the proteins as mediated by post-translational modification with the fatty acid myristate (CITATION). Our previous yeast two-hybrid studies had established that CBLs interact with CIPKs via the conserved NAF domain, which comprises 24 amino acids within the C-terminal non-catalytic region of the kinase (CITATION). To assess further the functional significance of complex formation and to test for myristoylation-mediated membrane localization of the complex, we initially investigated the CBL1/CIPK1 interaction using the Sos Recruitment System (SRS) in yeast (CITATION; CITATION). This system is suitable for monitoring physical interactions of proteins at the plasma membrane. To this end, a bait protein is fused to a modified version of human hSos, which represents a functional homolog of the yeast Ras guanyl nucleotide-exchange factor CDC25. The mutant form of the hSos protein, lacking the C-terminal CAAX-box motif, does not localize to the plasma membrane and thus is functionally inactive. A prey protein potentially interacting with the bait can be expressed from any other plasmid harbouring a similarly strong promoter as the bait–hSos fusion. When protein–protein interaction occurs and the prey protein mediates plasma membrane localization, recruitment of the human hSos protein to the plasma membrane restores the Ras pathway, allowing growth at 35°C of the thermosensitive cdc25-2 yeast mutant (CITATION). We used wild-type CIPK1 (pADNS:CIPK1) as well as a mutant CIPK1 version with a deleted NAF motif (pADNS:CIPK1ΔNAF) as baits fused to hSos and combined them with CBL1 (pVTU:CBL1). As a specificity control for myristoylation-dependent membrane localization, we used CBL2 (pVTU:CBL2), a closely related calcium sensor that can also interact with CIPK1, but lacks a myristoylation motif (CITATION; CITATION). As depicted in Figure 2, neither CIPK1 fused to hSos nor CBL1 restored growth at 35°C when expressed alone. However, growth of the yeast cdc25-2 mutant was rescued by co-expression of the hSos:CIPK1 fusion protein and CBL1, suggesting that CIPK1 is efficiently recruited to the plasma membrane via interaction with CBL1 Deletion of the NAF motif from CIPK1 abolished this interaction and thus did not result in restoration of thermotolerance. Importantly, interaction of CIPK1 with CBL2 did not restore growth at 35°C, indicating that myristoylation of the interacting CBL protein is required for targeting CIPK1 to the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] To extend these observations to plant cells, we determined the subcellular localization of CBL1, CBL9 and CIPK1 by expression of GFP fusion proteins in transiently transformed Nicotiana benthamiana protoplasts (Figure 3a). Localization of the CIPK1:GFP fusion protein was observed at the plasma membrane, and to some extent also in the cytosol and the nucleus. Importantly, deletion of the NAF domain (which is required for CIPK1/CBL interaction) from construct CIPK1ΔNAF:GFP abolished plasma membrane localization of CIPK1 and led to an enhanced accumulation of the fusion protein in the nucleus. This indicates that physical interaction with CBL proteins is required for localizing CIPK1 to the plasma membrane. Importantly, both CBL1:GFP and CBL9:GFP were found to be localized predominantly to the plasma membrane (Figure 3a), suggesting that these two CIPK1-interacting calcium sensors target the kinase to the membrane. [[FIGURE]] To directly establish the physical interaction of CBL1 and CBL9 with CIPK1 in planta, we used bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) in N. benthamiana protoplasts (CITATION). In these assays, both CBL1/CIPK1 and CBL9/CIPK1 complexes were observed exclusively at the plasma membrane (Figure 3b). Importantly, no fluorescence was observed in control transformations expressing CIPK1ΔNAF together with CBL1 or CBL9 (Figure 3b). Faithful expression of all YFP fusion proteins in these assays was confirmed by Western blot analyses using monoclonal antibodies against the fusion tags (CITATION; data not shown). These data provide compelling evidence for CBL1 and CBL9 recruiting CIPK1 to the plasma membrane by interaction via the NAF domain. To elucidate the function of CIPK1 in plants, we employed a reverse-genetics approach and performed a PCR-based screen of 36 500 T-DNA-transformed Arabidopsis lines with pairwise combinations of CIPK1- and T-DNA-specific primers. This screen led to the isolation of a potential cipk1 T-DNA insertion mutant. Sequence analysis of the PCR products amplified with primer combinations specific for both flanking regions of the T-DNA insertion localized the T-DNA within the second intron of the CIPK1 gene, 1040 nt downstream of the ATG initiator codon (Figure 4a). The T-DNA insertion event turned out to be accompanied by a deletion of 312 bp from the genomic DNA. Therefore the left border of the T-DNA followed nucleotide 1040 of the CIPK1 genomic sequence, whereas the right border precedes nucleotide 1353. [[FIGURE]] Southern blots, as well as PCR-based co-segregation analyses of the kanamycin marker gene and the T-DNA insertion-specific PCR product, revealed the presence of only a single T-DNA insertion in this line (data not shown). To analyse CIPK1 gene expression in the T-DNA insertion line, we performed RT-PCRs with gene-specific primer pairs on homozygous mutant plants and corresponding wild-type siblings isolated from the segregating progeny of a selfed heterozygous mutant. As expected, the expression of CBL1 and the ACTIN-2 gene (ACT2), which served as a control, were not affected in mutant plants (Figure 4b). In contrast, expression of functional CIPK1 mRNA was reduced to undetectable levels by the T-DNA insertion. In addition, RT-PCR tests with a primer pair binding 3′ to the T-DNA insertion site did not detect any CIPK1 mRNA accumulation. In contrast, a primer pair specific to the 5′ region of the CIPK1 transcript amplified a faint cDNA band. Even if this region upstream of the T-DNA insertion would be translated, it would give rise to a truncated protein of only 85 aa, lacking most of the functionally required kinase domain. These data indicate that the T-DNA insertion line identified harbours a cipk1 loss-of-function allele which, importantly, does not affect expression of the CIPK1-interacting calcium sensor CBL1. Despite the virtually complete absence of the CIPK1 transcript, the cipk1 mutant plants did not exhibit an obvious phenotype under normal growth conditions, indicating that calcium signalling via CBL1 and CIPK1 does not make a significant contribution to plant fitness under standard growth conditions. To generate a complemented control line, a genomic DNA fragment of 6.1 kb encompassing the entire CIPK1 locus was used to transform homozygous cipk1 mutant plants. As expected, this genomic fragment restored the expression of CIPK1 to wild-type levels (Figure 4b). To facilitate the genetic analysis of CIPK1/CBL interaction, we were interested in generating a CIPK/CBL double mutant. While the only available cbl9 allele is in the Columbia ecotype, the cipk1 and cbl1 mutants are in the same genetic background (WS ecotype) and therefore could be used to generate a cbl1/cipk1 double mutant. After crossing cipk1 with cbl1, homozygous double mutants were identified in the F2 population by PCR analyses with gene-specific primers. As expected, examination of gene expression by RT-PCR revealed a complete lack of both CBL1 and CIPK1 expression in the double mutant (Figure 4b). The plant hormone ABA regulates important aspects of plant responses to environmental stress conditions, such as low temperature, drought and high salinity (CITATION; CITATION). Our earlier analyses of cbl1 and cbl9 mutants had established that, while CBL1 functions independently of ABA, CBL9 mediates ABA-dependent stress responses (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We were therefore especially interested in testing the possible involvement of CIPK1 in ABA-mediated stress responses. To this end, we determined comparatively the germination rates of wild type, cbl1, cipk1 and cbl1/cipk1 seeds on media with or without supplementation with ABA. As depicted in Figure 5, in the absence of ABA about 92–97% of the seeds of all lines germinated within 7 days (97% of wild-type, 94% of cbl1, 92% of cipk1 and 97% of cbl1/cipk1 seeds). Exposure to 0.5 μm ABA reduced the germination rate of wild-type and cbl1 seedlings to 95% and 92%, respectively. At this concentration of ABA, the germination rate of cipk1 seeds was slightly lower, with 84% of seedlings having germinated. In the presence of 1.0 μm ABA, the germination rates of wild-type and cbl1 seeds were not detectably affected with an observed germination rate of 97% and 95%, respectively (Figure 5). In contrast, only 81% of the cipk1 seeds (and 89% of the double mutant) had germinated at this concentration. Exposure to 2.0 μm ABA further enhanced the observed differences in ABA responsiveness. While the average germination rate of wild-type and cbl1 seeds amounted to 93% and 88%, respectively, only 54% of the cipk1 seeds had germinated. Surprisingly, the double mutant appeared to be somewhat less affected, with 73% of the seeds germinating. A similar observation was also made in salt-stress experiments (see below); possible explanations for this potentially very interesting finding are discussed in the context of our signalling model (see Discussion). In summary, the results of the ABA experiments confirm our previous observation that loss of cbl1 function does not alter the responsiveness of plants to ABA. Moreover, they clearly indicate that the loss of CIPK1 renders Arabidopsis seeds hypersensitive to the effects of exogenously applied ABA, a phenotype shared with the cbl9 mutant. [[FIGURE]] Application of exogenous ABA has been shown to result in significant expression changes of genes known to be involved in abiotic stress responses (CITATION; CITATION). We therefore analysed comparatively the expression of stress-responsive marker genes in wild-type and mutant plants exposed to 100 μm ABA over a 24-h period (Figure 6). We selected the key marker genes RD29A, KIN1, RAB18 and RD22, expression of which has been shown to be responsive to multiple stress signals including osmotic stress and ABA treatment (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We also included CBF1/DREB1b and CBF2/DREB1c as master transcription factors functioning early in the abiotic stress response of the transcriptome (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) as well as the constitutively expressed ACT2 gene as an internal standard. The relative expression rates of each marker gene at a given time point were quantified against ACT2 expression (for details see Experimental procedures). In these analyses, we observed that application of ABA led to an accelerated induction of RD29A, RD29B and RAB18 in the cipk1 mutant compared with the wild type, which was most pronounced after 4 h (Figure 6a). However, subsequently the expression of RD29A and RD29B declined somewhat faster at the 6- and 8-h time points in the cipk1 mutant, while the induction of RAB18 remained higher in the mutant than in the wild type. RD29B expression rose again at 24 h in the cipk1 mutant but not in the wild type, a finding that was highly reproducible in several independent experiments, but at present cannot be explained satisfactorily. [[FIGURE]] In contrast to the induction of RD29A, RD29B and RAB18, expression of KIN1 was much less induced in cipk1 than in the wild type at all time points from 1 to 8 h (Figure 6b). This expression pattern coincided with a stronger transient induction of CBF2/DREB1c in mutant plants, while changes in the expression profile of CBF1/DREB1b were much less pronounced. Taken together, these data indicate that the enhanced susceptibility of cipk1 mutant plants to application of ABA is paralleled by significant changes in the regulation of ABA-responsive genes. Previous studies have established a function of the calcium sensor CBL9 in (mannitol-induced) osmotic stress responses (CITATION). To date, similar studies have not been performed with the cbl1 mutant (CITATION; CITATION). We therefore wanted to evaluate the susceptibility of the cbl1 and cipk1 mutant lines, as well as the double mutant, to mannitol-induced osmotic stress during seed germination. To this end, we performed comparative seed-germination assays on either standard MS medium or MS medium supplemented with 300 mm mannitol. On medium without osmoticum, seedlings of all lines germinated evenly and rapidly reached a germination rate of nearly 100% within 5 days (Figure 7a). Exposure to 300 mm mannitol reduced the germination rate of wild-type seeds to 60% (assayed after 5 days). In contrast, seeds from the cbl1 and cipk1 mutants exhibited a significantly higher sensitivity with only 43 and 41%, respectively, of seeds germinating within 5 days (Figure 7b). Both mutant lines failed to reach the final germination rate of wild-type seeds, even when the experiment was extended to 14 days (data not shown). The double mutant was affected slightly more strongly than the single mutants (35% germination rate), possibly pointing to participation of other CBL/CIPK complex combinations in osmotic stress signalling (CBL1 in complex with a CIPK different from CIPK1 and/or CIPK1 in complex with a CBL other than CBL1). [[FIGURE]] In an additional set of experiments, we investigated the effects of osmotic stress during early seedling development. To this end, seedlings were cultivated for 4 days on MS medium and subsequently transferred onto media supplemented with various concentrations of mannitol. Seedlings able to develop at least four true leaves within 14 days under these conditions were scored as survivors. Osmotic stress exerted by 400 mm mannitol turned out to completely inhibit further development in all lines investigated (Figure 8a). However, while all mutant seedlings ceased to grow on 300 mm mannitol, about 67% of wild-type plants resisted this stress treatment and continued to grow. On medium supplemented with 200 mm mannitol, 80% of wild-type seedlings continued to develop, whereas only 60% of cbl1 and 57% of cipk1 seedlings were able to tolerate this treatment. This indicates that both the calcium sensor CBL1 and the protein kinase CIPK1 are required to establish tolerance to osmotic stress in Arabidopsis. As expected, complementation of the cipk1 mutant with the genomic DNA fragment encompassing the entire CIPK1 locus fully restored the ability to cope with mannitol-induced osmotic stress (Figure 8b), unambiguously linking the hypersensitive phenotype of the cipk1 mutant to the loss of CIPK1 function. [[FIGURE]] To gain further insights into the molecular basis of the observed phenotypes, we next investigated the expression of well-characterized stress-marker genes by quantitative real-time RT-PCR in wild-type and cipk1 mutant plants during exposure to osmotic stress (Figure 9). Because similar analyses had not been performed before with the cbl1 mutant, we also included this line in the experiments. On challenge with osmotic stress, the induction of RD29A, KIN1, RD22 and RAB18 gene expression exhibited a similar kinetics in wild-type and cipk1 mutant plants (Figure 9a). However, in cipk1 plants the intensity of induction of these four stress-responsive genes was significantly stronger at all time points than in the wild type. The expression patterns of RD29A, KIN1, RD22 and RAB18 were also different in the cbl1 mutant. The upregulation of RD29A in cbl1 was slightly stronger than in the wild type, but much less pronounced than in cipk1. An induction of RAB18 expression was hardly detectable in the cbl1 mutant, and the expression of KIN1 and RD22 was significantly less enhanced during exposure to osmotic stress. [[FIGURE]] Remarkably, in sharp contrast to the situation in the wild type, osmotic stress failed to induce the master transcription factors CBF1/DREB1b and CBF2/DREB1c in the cipk1 mutant (Figure 9b). Similarly, these genes were not significantly induced after exposure to osmotic stress in the cbl1 mutant. To exclude the possibility that the transient induction of these transcription factors occurs so rapidly in the cipk1 mutant that it is already over 1 h after the onset of the stress, and thus is missed in our kinetics analyses (with 1 h as the first time point), we also investigated expression of CBF1/DREB1b and CBF2/DREB1c in samples harvested at an earlier time point (30 min). However, also this experiment did not reveal any indication of CBF1/DREB1b or CBF2/DREB1c induction in the cipk1 mutant (data not shown). Interestingly, when compared in wild-type and cipk1 mutant plants, both KIN1 and the transcription factor CBF2/DREB1c exhibit an opposite induction behaviour during osmotic stress and ABA application. We additionally analysed the expression of the CIPK1-interacting calcium sensor CBL1 during osmotic stress response in both the wild-type and the cipk1 mutant (Figure 9c). While we did not detect a significant induction of CBL1 in our assays in the wild type, expression of this gene was upregulated in the cipk1 mutant. The induction of CBL1 transcript accumulation in the cipk1 mutant background may represent a compensatory reaction resulting from the inability to forward effectively the osmotic stress response via CIPK1. Taken together, our expression analyses indicate that the observed phenotypic hypersensitivity of the cipk1 mutant to osmotic stress coincides with a drastically altered regulation of genes implicated in plant osmotic stress responses. Moreover, these results suggest that CBF1/DREB1b and CBF2/DREB1c represent downstream targets of a stress signal-transduction pathway involving the protein kinase CIPK1. Having established that CIPK1 mediates osmotic stress responses induced by mannitol treatment, we were also interested in testing the possible involvement of this kinase in chilling and freezing stresses, both of which are generally believed to share common features with osmotic stress. However, comparative freezing-stress experiments under several different experimental regimes (see Experimental procedures) revealed no significant differences in freezing tolerance between the cbl1 mutant, the cipk1 mutant and a wild-type control (Figure S2; data not shown). We also compared plant growth and development at 4°C. When grown under these conditions for up to 3 months, neither growth nor flowering time was altered significantly in the cbl1 or the cipk1 mutant, indicating that both gene functions do not contribute significantly to chilling stress adaptation (data not shown). Our previous study of CBL1 function revealed that this calcium sensor plays a crucial role in the plant's response to osmotic as well as to ionic stress factors. We therefore compared the salt-stress tolerance of wild-type, cbl1 and cipk1 plants by exposing 4-day-old seedlings to medium containing 150 mm NaCl. As illustrated in Figure 10, this salt-stress treatment reduced the survival rate of wild-type seedlings to 48%. In contrast, only 5% of the cbl1 seedlings were able to survive this stress treatment. However, in contrast to the drastic reduction of salt-stress tolerance in the cbl1 mutant, cipk1 seedlings (55% survival rate) appeared to be salt-tolerant similarly to the wild type. As in our ABA assays, the cbl1/cipk1 double mutant, while also being strongly affected, turned out to be reproducibly more salt-tolerant than the cbl1 single mutant (21% survival rate; see Discussion). [[FIGURE]] To examine the salt-stress responses of the cbl1 and cipk1 mutant lines in more detail, we next investigated their salt tolerance in seedling survival assays over a range of lower NaCl concentrations (Figure S3). Cultivation on 50 mm NaCl did not negatively affect the survival rate of wild-type and cipk1 mutant plants. However, under these conditions only 75% of cbl1 seedlings survived, confirming the enhanced salt sensitivity of the cbl1 mutant. It should be noted that exposure to 100 mm mannitol, which exerts a comparably strong osmotic effect as 50 mm NaCl, did not cause growth defects in the cbl1 mutant (nor in any other line; data not shown), suggesting that the lethal effect of 50 mm NaCl observed for the cbl1 plants can be attributed predominantly to the ionic component of this stress. Exposure to 100 mm NaCl again dramatically reduced the survival rate of cbl1 seedlings (to 15% in the representative experiment; Figure S3), while about 90% of wild-type plants and nearly 100% of cipk1 seedlings survived. Taken together, these data suggest that, in contrast to its interacting calcium sensor CBL1, the protein kinase CIPK1 does not serve a major role in mediating plant responses to salt stress.
!~MM~! Molecular biology methods were performed according to standard procedures (CITATION). Plant DNA isolation, Southern blot analyses, hybridizations and DNA sequencing were carried out as described previously (CITATION). A list of primers used in this work is provided as Table S1. The correctness of all constructs generated by PCR in this study was verified by DNA sequencing. Arabidopsis thaliana cv. Wassilewskija plants were used in this work and, except for the stress treatments indicated, cultivated in a growth chamber under a 16-h light/8-h dark cycle with 70% atmospheric humidity and a 22°C (day)/18°C (night) temperature regime. To generate seeds for phenotypical analyses, wild-type plants, cbl1 and cipk1 mutants were grown in parallel under identical conditions and seeds were harvested at the same time. Plant transformation and selection of transgenic plants were performed according to CITATION. The identification, isolation and verification of homozygous cipk1 plants and the subsequent co-segregation analyses were essentially performed as described in detail by CITATION. The diagnostic primers used in these analyses were CIPK1F, CIPK1R and T-DNA-RB. For complementation of the cipk1 mutant, a 6.1 kb genomic sequence containing 2 kb of the putative promoter region, the CIPK1 coding region and 0.6 kb of the 3′ flanking sequence was amplified by PCR from a cosmid harbouring the CIPK1 locus using the primers CIPK1genomicF and CIPK1genomicR. After digestion with BamHI and SalI, this fragment was cloned into the pGPTVII-BAR vector (CITATION). After transformation into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101, cipk1 plants were transformed using the floral dip method (CITATION). F1 seeds were selected for their resistance to phosphinothricin. Five independent homozygous F2 lines were analysed for restoration of CIPK1 gene expression and were subsequently used in phenotypical assays. Expression of the CBL1 and CIPK1 genes was analysed by RT-PCR. To this end, total RNA from wild-type and mutants plants was extracted from leaf tissue using the TriFast reagent (Peqlab, Erlangen, Germany). The reverse transcription reaction was carried out with 200 U M-MLV reverse transcriptase (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) using 1 μg total RNA, in the presence of 1 μg random hexamer primer for 60 min at 42°C. The cDNA was subsequently used as template in PCR reactions using the following primer pairs: CBL1RT-F/CBL1RT-R, CIPK1RT-F/CIPK1RT-R, ACT2RT-F/ACT2RT-R. To generate promoter–uidA constructs for CBL1 and CIPK1, the putative promoter sequences were amplified with the primer combinations CBL1promF/CBL1promR and CIPK1promF/CIPK1promR, respectively. The PCR fragments (CBL1 promoter: 1991 bp, CIPK1 promoter: 2200 bp) were cloned into the XbaI and SmaI sites of the pBluescript SK plasmid and subsequently cloned into the pGPTV-BAR vector (CITATION). The constructs were then transformed into Arabidopsis wild-type (cv. Columbia) plants and transformants were selected with phosphinothricin. For each construct, reporter gene expression was analysed in five independent homozygous F2 lines by staining with 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β,d-glucuronide for 12 h followed by incubation in 80% ethanol to remove chlorophylls (CITATION). To assay comparatively the germination rate of the different plant lines, wild-type, cbl1 and cipk1 mutant seeds were sown on 0.7% agar plates containing MS medium plus Gamborg's vitamins (control) or MS medium plus Gamborg's vitamins supplemented with the indicated concentrations of ABA or mannitol. The seeds were stratified for 4 days and placed under long-day (LD) (16 h light/8 h darkness) conditions. Sixty to 80 seeds of each line were analysed per experiment. The numbers of seeds that germinated were scored at specific time points, as indicated in the figures. Appearance of a radicle breaking through the seed coat was considered as germination. To analyse the influence of different abiotic stresses on seedling development, seeds were sown on 0.7% agar plates containing MS medium plus Gamborg's vitamins, stratified for 4 days and cultivated under LD conditions. After 4 days’ growth, 20–25 seedlings of each line were transferred to 0.7% agar plates containing either MS medium plus Gamborg's vitamins or the same medium supplemented with the indicated concentrations of NaCl or mannitol. For phenotypic evaluation, two different parameters were analysed: In mannitol assays, seedlings that were able to develop true leaves at the time point indicated were scored as surviving. In NaCl-tolerance assays, the number of seedlings that survived the treatment was scored at the time point indicated. All stress assays were performed at least in duplicate (freezing and chilling tolerance) or in triplicate (salt and mannitol tolerance, ABA-response analysis). For quantitative PCR (qPCR) analyses of gene expression, plants were grown hydroponically for 16 days in Magenta boxes (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA) under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark). For the first 10 days, plants were cultivated on rafts placed on 0.5 × MS with 0.5% sucrose solidified with 0.8% agar. Subsequently, the rafts were transferred onto liquid 0.5 × MS medium without sucrose. Stress treatments were performed as follows: osmotic stress, addition of 300 mm mannitol to the medium; ABA, spraying of plants with 100 μm ABA; cold treatment, incubation at 4°C under low-light conditions. Tissue samples were harvested at the indicated time points and immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. Total RNA was extracted from 50 mg plant tissue using a Promega SV Total RNA Kit. DNaseI treatment was performed in the column. After photometric quality control, cDNA synthesis was performed with 500 ng total RNA from each sample using the iScript kit (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Real-time PCRs were conducted in an iCycler (Bio-Rad) using the iQ SYBR Green Supermix (Bio-Rad). For each reaction, 5 ng total cDNA, 12.5 μl reaction mix and 1 μl equimolar mixes of primers in a total volume of 25 μl were used. PCR reactions were performed for 45 cycles according to the following temperature scheme: 10 sec at 95°C, 30 sec at 62°C. After amplification, melting-curve analyses were performed to exclude the artefactual amplifications. Whenever possible, at least one primer used in qPCR analyses was designed to span an intron–exon border to eliminate the risk of amplifying residual contaminating genomic DNA. All primers used in this study resulted in no amplification in non-template controls. Following determination of Ct values, the relative expression of marker genes was calculated with the rest-mcs software (CITATION) using ACT2 as constitutive control. Stress treatments, cDNA syntheses and PCR analyses were performed at least in duplicate. To investigate the tissue-specific expression of CIPK1 using RT-PCR, leaf, stem and flower material was harvested from 6-week-old plants cultivated in the greenhouse. Root material was harvested from flowering plants grown hydroponically in Magenta boxes. After RNA isolation and reverse transcription, PCR amplification (30 sec at 95°C, 30 sec at 58°C and 1 min at 72°C) was performed with the primer combinations ACTF/ACTR and CIPK1-RT-For/CIPK1-RT-Rev for 28 cycles. PCR products were separated by agarose gel electrophoresis and analysed densitometrically. Yeast transformation was performed as described by CITATION, the only modification being that all incubation steps with the yeast strain cdc25-2 (CITATION) were performed at 24°C. Transformed yeast cells were selected on complete synthetic media lacking leucin and uracil (CSM−L−U). For interaction analyses in the SRS, 20-μl aliquots of a 1:10 dilution series ranging from OD600 = 1.0 to 10−3 were spotted on selective medium lacking leucine and uracil (SD-LU medium) containing 2% agarose and incubated for at least 3 days at either 24 or 35°C. All experiments were performed in duplicate. To generate the plasmids used in this study, the coding regions of CBL1 and CBL2 were cloned as BamHI/EcoRI fragments into the plasmid pVTU (CITATION). cDNAs for CIPK1 and CIPK1ΔNAF were cloned as BamHI/EcoRI fragments in frame behind the human Ras protein in plasmid pYES:RRS (CITATION), generating constructs RAS:CIPK1 and RAS:CIPK1ΔNAF. To produce plasmids pADNS:CIPK1 and pADNS:CIPK1ΔNAF, the two cDNA–hSos fusion constructs were integrated into the yeast expression vector pADNS (CITATION) as HindIII/NotI fragments. For in planta localization and BiFC studies, constructs CIPK1 and CIPK1ΔNAF were amplified by PCR with the primer combinations CIPK1forBamHI and CIPK1revKpnI and cloned BamHI–KpnI into pSPYNE-35S and/or pGPTVII.GFP5.Kan. CBL1 and CBL9 were amplified by PCR using the primers CBL1forn/CBL1revGFP and CBL9for/CBL9revGFP, respectively, and cloned BamHI–XmaI into pSPYCE-35S and pGPTVII.GFP5.Kan (CITATION). Infiltration of N. benthamiana leaves was performed as described by CITATION. Protoplasts were prepared 3 days after infiltration by incubating leaf discs in 500 mm Mannitol, 10 mm CaCl2, 5 mm MES/KOH (pH 5.5), 3% cellulase and 0.75% Macerozym. For documentation of the results, pictures were taken either with an inverted fluorescence microscope (Leica DMI6000B; Leica Microsystems, Wetzlar, Germany) equipped with a Hamamatsu Orca AG camera (Hamamatsu Photonics, Hamamatsu City, Japan) and guided by openlab software (Improvision, Coventry, UK); or with an inverted microscope (Leica DMIRE2) equipped with the Leica TCS SP2 laser-scanning device.
