!~ABS~! S-Adenosylmethionine (SAM) is formed exclusively in the cytosol but plays a major role in plastids; SAM can either act as a methyl donor for the biogenesis of small molecules such as prenyllipids and macromolecules or as a regulator of the synthesis of aspartate-derived amino acids. Because the biosynthesis of SAM is restricted to the cytosol, plastids require a SAM importer. However, this transporter has not yet been identified. Here, we report the molecular and functional characterization of an Arabidopsis thaliana gene designated SAM TRANSPORTER1 (SAMT1), which encodes a plastid metabolite transporter required for the import of SAM from the cytosol. Recombinant SAMT1 produced in yeast cells, when reconstituted into liposomes, mediated the counter-exchange of SAM with SAM and with S-adenosylhomocysteine, the by-product and inhibitor of transmethylation reactions using SAM. Insertional mutation in SAMT1 and virus-induced gene silencing of SAMT1 in Nicotiana benthamiana caused severe growth retardation in mutant plants. Impaired function of SAMT1 led to decreased accumulation of prenyllipids and mainly affected the chlorophyll pathway. Biochemical analysis suggests that the latter effect represents one prominent example of the multiple events triggered by undermethylation, when there is decreased SAM flux into plastids.
!~RES~! A BLASTP search (CITATION) revealed that the closest Arabidopsis homolog (E-value, 9e-28; score, 126) of the yeast mitochondrial SAMT (SAM5p) (CITATION) is encoded by At4g39460. The corresponding protein, provisionally named SAMT1, showed 31% amino acid identity with SAM5p. Based on this evidence, we amplified and cloned SAMT1 and its homologs from Capsicum annuum (Ca SAMT1) and Nicotiana benthamiana (Nb SAMT1) using single-stranded cDNAs transcribed from total RNA. The gene products of SAMT1, Ca SAMT1, and Nb SAMT1 have approximate molecular masses of 35 kD. The peptide sequence of SAMT1 exhibits 76% identity to the sequences of the putative Ca SAMT1 and Nb SAMT1 homologs, which, in turn, have 28% identity with the yeast SAM5p sequence (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). SAMT1 has 62% identity to the predicted amino acid sequence of At1g34065 when compared pairwise (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). A BLAST search revealed no significant similarity between SAMT1 and R. prowazekii SAMT (CITATION). The N-terminal regions of SAMT1, Ca SAMT1, and Nb SAMT1 displayed sequence motifs that could be identified as putative plastid transit peptides using ChloroP (http://genoplante-info.infobiogen.fr/predotar/) (CITATION) and TargetP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) (CITATION) (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Analysis of SAMT1 using the transmembrane prediction program TMpred (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/TMPRED_form.html) revealed that SAMT1 is a membrane-bound protein with five membrane-spanning domains located at residues 54 to 72, 99 to 118, 133 to 152, 230 to 250, and 285 to 304 (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). These domains were also predicted in yeast SAM5p. The expression profile of SAMT1 was analyzed using the Digital Northern Tool of Genevestigator (CITATION, CITATION). SAMT1 (At4g39460) is ubiquitously expressed in Arabidopsis but is most highly expressed in the pedicel, the shoot apex, and juvenile leaves (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). To identify genes that show similar expression patterns as SAMT1, we performed cluster analysis (CITATION) of the AtGenExpress developmental series microarray data (http://www.weigelworld.org/resources/microarray/AtGenExpress/) (CITATION). SAMT1 belongs to a highly correlated cluster (r = 0.86) of 68 genes, all of which are expressed predominantly in photosynthetic tissues such as rosette leaves and in the vegetative shoot apex but are strongly repressed in roots and later stages of seed development (see Supplemental Table 1 online). In accordance with the proposed function of SAMT1, the cluster contains genes involved in heme and chlorophyll biosynthesis (At5g14220, putative protophorphyrin oxidase) and methyltransferases [At3g62000, O-methyltransferase family 3 protein; At3g21300, RNA methyltransferase protein; At3g56330, N(2),N(2)-dimethylguanosine tRNA methyltransferase; At2g48120, pale cress protein (PAC)]. The pac mutant, which is defective in the PAC, was previously shown to have altered chloroplast and leaf development, and it was suggested that PAC is involved in chloroplast mRNA maturation (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Because the organellar targeting of proteins predicted by algorithms cannot be considered completely reliable, the subcellular localization of SAMT1 was experimentally tested using green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion proteins and antibodies raised against recombinant SAMT1. The similarity between SAMT1 and yeast mitochondrial SAMT starts at residue 55 (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). The computer-based programs ChloroP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP/) and TargetP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) predicted a cleavage of SAMT1 between residues 23 and 24. To validate this prediction, a construct was made in which the first 80 N-terminal amino acids (Met-1 to Thr-80) of SAMT1 were fused to GFP. The resulting DNA construct was subcloned downstream of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter to give 35S-SAMT1(Met1-Thr80)-GFP. A construct without translational fusion between the first 80 N-terminal residues and the GFP (35S-GFP) was used as a control. Both constructs were introduced into N. benthamiana protoplasts using the methods of CITATION. After incubation at 25°C for 20 h, the protoplast preparations were examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy. The fluorescent images revealed that the transiently expressed (Met1-Thr80)-GFP was localized exclusively in tobacco chloroplasts characterized by their red autofluorescence, whereas the control 35S-GFP was detected in the cytosol (Figures 2A and 2B). To further analyze the compartmentation of SAMT1, intact purified Arabidopsis chloroplasts, chloroplast subfractions (chloroplast envelope membranes, thylakoid membranes, and stroma), and mitochondria were isolated and subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis (Figures 2C to 2E) using specific polyclonal antibodies raised against recombinant SAMT1 (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). [[FIGURE]] On immunoblots of chloroplast proteins, the anti-SAMT1 antibody detected a major band with a molecular mass of 32 kD corresponding to the mature form of SAMT1 in total chloroplast and in chloroplast envelope membrane proteins (Figure 2D). Neither thylakoid membrane nor stroma proteins contained immunoreactive SAMT1 (Figure 2D). The purity of the isolated mitochondria and plastids, and of their subcompartments, was tested using antibodies directed against proteins known to be localized in specific chloroplast or mitochondrial compartments. These included anti-LHCIIb for the light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b complex for the thylakoid membranes (CITATION), anti-TPT for the chloroplast envelope membrane triose phosphate translocator (CITATION), anti-DXS for the stromal 1-deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate synthase (CITATION), and anti-NAD9 for the respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (complex I) of mitochondria (CITATION) (Figure 2D). Immunoblot analysis of mitochondrial proteins with anti-SAMT1 showed a faint signal, corresponding approximately to the same molecular mass protein as that detected previously in chloroplast protein samples (Figures 2C and 2D). This unidentified protein has a localization pattern that coincides with that of the mitochondrial NADH dehydrogenase (NAD9) (Figures 2C and 2D). This immunoreactivity could be attributable to the fact that SAMT1 and At1g34065 share 62% amino acid sequence (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). In addition, several bioinformatic analyses suggest that At1g34065 may be located in the mitochondria (http://www.suba.bcs.uwa.edu.au/) (CITATION; CITATION). After treatment of chloroplast envelope membranes with 0.5 M sodium carbonate, pH 11.5, and ultracentrifugation, SAMT1 remained in the alkali-insoluble membrane pellet (Figure 2E). This treatment releases peripheral proteins while not significantly solubilizing integral proteins (CITATION). Under similar conditions, SAMT1 was not extracted from the chloroplast envelope membranes using 1 M NaCl (data not shown). As would be predicted for an integral protein, SAMT1 was completely solubilized by treatment with 2% Triton X-100 (Figure 2E). The localization of SAMT1 in the chloroplast envelope membranes has been suggested previously by bioinformatic analysis (CITATION) and demonstrated by proteomics (CITATION, CITATION), supporting the localization data presented in this study. Collectively, these data demonstrate that SAMT1 is an integral membrane protein that is localized in the chloroplast envelope membranes. Sequence similarity to known proteins allows for the development of testable hypotheses about the possible function of a novel protein. To test our hypothesis that SAMT1 encodes a SAMT, we expressed the corresponding cDNA in yeast cells under the control of a galactose-inducible promoter. The nucleotides encoding the first 35 N-terminal amino acids of the plastid targeting sequence were omitted from the expression construct because the presence of the plastid targeting sequence frequently leads to reduced expression levels in yeast cells; instead, codons encoding an N-terminal hexa-His tag were inserted at the N terminus (see Methods for details), allowing the detection of the recombinant protein with antibodies directed against the His tag. Total membrane fractions were prepared from transgenic yeast harboring the expression construct or an empty vector and analyzed by SDS gel staining and protein gel blot for the expression of SAMT1. Visual inspection of the Coomassie blue–stained SDS-PAGE gel revealed the presence of an additional protein band with an apparent molecular mass of ∼36 kD in the membrane fractions of yeast cells harboring the expression construct (Figure 3A, lane 2) that was not detectable in yeast cells containing the control construct (Figure 3A, lane 1). Proteins from an identical gel were electrotransferred onto a membrane and subsequently immunodecorated using an anti-penta-His monoclonal antibody. A specific signal with an apparent molecular mass of 36 kD was detected in cells harboring the expression construct, but not in control cells (Figure 3A, lanes 3 and 4), indicating that the additional protein band observed in the Coomassie blue–stained gel represents recombinant, His-tagged SAMT1. Membrane fractions from both yeast lines were reconstituted into liposomes that had been preloaded with SAM and assayed for SAM transport activity. Background SAM transport activity of reconstituted membrane proteins from control cells was negligible (Figure 3B, open symbols), whereas liposomes reconstituted with membranes from yeast cells expressing SAMT1 showed high saturable SAM–SAM counter-exchange activity (Figure 3B, closed symbols). To investigate the putative function of a transporter protein in vivo, knowledge of its substrate specificity as well as its apparent Km values is required. Using proteoliposomes preloaded with saturating concentrations of SAM, we observed an apparent Km value of 129 ± 16 μM for the uptake of radiolabeled SAM into liposomes (Figure 3C, inset). The apparent Vmax values for SAM–SAM counter-exchange were determined in the five independent experiments conducted to determine the apparent Km for SAM uptake and ranged between 270 and 398 nmol·mg−1 protein·h−1, indicating that the levels of SAMT1 expression and the efficiency of reconstitution were comparable between the independent replicates. The substrate specificity of SAMT1 was analyzed by measuring the uptake of radiolabeled SAM into proteoliposomes that had been preloaded with saturating concentrations (i.e., 20 mM) of SAM, SAHC, S-methylmethionine (SMM), Met, adenosine, or control substrates, respectively. The SAM–SAM counter-exchange rates were set to 100%, and exchange rates for other substrates were calculated relative to the rates observed for cis/trans SAM transport. Liposomes reconstituted with SAMT1 showed high rates of SAM uptake when preloaded with either SAM (100%) or SAHC (50%), whereas the uptake of SAM into liposomes preloaded with SMM, Met, adenosine, or no counter-exchange substrate was negligible (Figure 3D). Together, these results clearly demonstrate that SAMT1 represents a high-affinity SAM–SAHC antiporter that has negligible SAM uniporter activity and that does not accept nonspecific counter-exchange substrates such as SMM, Met, or adenosine. To determine whether SAMT1 has the function of a plastidic SAMT in vivo and whether a mutation in the SAMT1 gene would affect plastid functions, we identified a T-DNA insertion for SAMT1 from the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory Collection (CITATION). To this end, the SALK_008248 line (subsequently designated samt1) was selected. The progeny of self-fertilized heterozygous kanamycin-resistant plants grown under nonselective conditions revealed a segregation of pale-green leaf phenotype during the first weeks and a severely growth-retarded phenotype (Figures 4A to 4C ). samt1 mutants have very low germination efficiency, with <20% viable seedlings produced. Furthermore, samt1 has a long generation time, at least three times that of wild-type plants (Figures 4B and 4C). The segregation ratio of the encoded kanamycin marker corresponded to 3:1, as expected for a single Mendelian transmission. When heterozygous kanamycin-resistant plants were grown under selective conditions, the kanamycin resistance or sensitivity (Kanr or Kans) and the mutant phenotype segregated in the following ratio: mutant Kanr:wild-type Kanr:wild-type Kans (1:2:1). This finding indicated that the phenotype was genetically linked to the homozygous state of the mutation. [[FIGURE]] We confirmed by sequencing the T-DNA flanking genomic DNA regions in the samt1 mutant line that the T-DNA insertion is located at position +641 of SAMT1, in the third intron, downstream of the start codon (Figure 4D). This insertion leads to the truncation of SAMT1 after 83 amino acids. One band was observed in the homozygous line, and its size is consistent with the insertion of a single T-DNA (Figure 4E, lane 2, probe II). The absence of SAMT1 mRNA from the samt1 mutant line was verified by RT-PCR, RNA gel blot analysis, and protein gel blot analysis using anti-SAMT1 antibody and purified chloroplasts prepared from leaf protoplasts (CITATION). RT-PCR using primers surrounding the targeted insertion region demonstrated that SAMT1 mRNA was absent from the homozygous insertion line but was clearly detectable in the heterozygous line and the wild-type Columbia ecotype (Col-0) (Figure 4F). Arabidopsis α-tubulin was used as a control to assess the quality of the mRNA and the efficiency of the RT-PCR (Figure 4F). The absence of SAMT1 mRNA in the homozygous line was also confirmed by RNA gel blot analysis (Figure 4G). In addition, purified plastids were prepared from the wild-type and heterozygous and homozygous samt1 lines and subjected to protein immunoblot analysis. SAMT1 was not detectable in plastid preparations obtained from the homozygous samt1 line, but it was clearly detectable as a protein with an apparent molecular mass of 32 kD in the heterozygous and wild-type lines (Figure 4H). These data demonstrate that a T-DNA insertion in SAMT1 leads to a null allele of samt1. To further show that the phenotype of the samt1 mutant was caused by the T-DNA insertion in SAMT1, we attempted genetic complementation of the mutant phenotype by expression of SAMT1 in the mutant background. To this end, a 2.5-kb genomic fragment encoding the amino acid sequence of SAMT1 was placed under transcriptional control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, and the resulting construct (35S-SAMT1) was introduced into the heterozygous (samt1/SAMT1) mutant. From the progeny, we selected complemented lines (samt1/35-SAMT1) that contained both the 35S-SAMT1 transgene and the T-DNA insertion using PCR- and RT-PCR–based genotyping, as described in Methods (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Five lines (samt1/35S-SAMT1) containing a homozygous samt1 allele and the 35S-SAMT1 transgene were obtained. Figure 4I shows that the phenotype of a representative transgenic line containing samt1 and the SAMT1 transgene (samt1/35S-SAMT1) (Figure 4J) is similar to that of the wild type. In addition, RT-PCR, RNA gel blot, and protein immunoblot analyses revealed the accumulation of SAMT1 mRNA and protein in these homozygous complemented lines (Figures 4K to 4M). Collectively, these data demonstrate that the phenotype of the samt1 mutant is caused by T-DNA insertional inactivation of SAMT1 and that the phenotype conferred by samt1 can be rescued by expression of the wild-type SAMT1 in the mutant background. To confirm that the observed phenotype is linked to a SAM transport defect, we evaluated the uptake of labeled [14C]SAM into chloroplasts isolated from the homozygous mutant line and determined the endogenous chloroplast SAM concentration. As shown in Figure 5A , the capacity of chloroplasts isolated from the samt1 lines to import SAM is significantly lower than that of the complemented lines or the wild-type plants. A similar trend was observed concerning the endogenous concentration of chloroplast SAM (Figure 5B). Based on the stromal volume per unit of chlorophyll reported by CITATION, the estimated concentrations of SAM in the stroma were equivalent to 1.6 μM in samt1 plants and 9 μM in wild-type plants. [[FIGURE]] Because SAM is required and channeled toward different subplastial pathways of prenyllipid biosynthesis, we evaluated whether plastid SAMT1 could regulate the supply of SAM engaged in chlorophyll, tocopherol, phylloquinone, and plastoquinone biosynthesis in vivo. The results shown in Figures 6A and 6B indicate that total chlorophyll content and plastoquinone contents were reduced in samt1 compared with wild-type Col-0. The overall level of tocopherol and phylloquinone was slightly lower in samt1 plants; however, the carotenoid content was not significantly modified. A key metabolic step in which plastid SAM is engaged is the conversion of MgProto IX to MgProto IX Me. Hypothesizing that this step might be affected, we incubated detached rosette leaves with 5-aminolevulinate, the chlorophyll precursor. As shown in Figure 6C, the total amount of MgProto IX and the ratio of MgProto IX to MgProto IX Me were higher in samt1 than in wild-type Col-0. These data are consistent with a lower capacity of samt1 to import plastid SAM channeled to the chlorophyll pathway. [[FIGURE]] To verify the results obtained with the Arabidopsis insertion mutant using an independent experimental approach, we examined whether identical metabolic changes could be observed in N. benthamiana plants in which the expression of N. benthamiana SAMT1 (Nb SAMT1) had been deliberately silenced using a virus-induced gene-silencing strategy. To this end, we cloned a fragment of Nb SAMT1 into the viral vector TTO and inoculated N. benthamiana plants with infectious TTO-Nb SAMT1 mRNAs. A construct (TTO-CrtB), consisting of TTO harboring a fragment of the bacterial phytoene synthase (CrtB) sequence, was used as a control rather than the empty vector, because expression of the latter sometimes causes adverse effects on plant growth. Three weeks after infiltration, the silencing effect was analyzed. Nb SAMT1–silenced plants were strongly stunted and became pale green (Figures 7A and 7C ), whereas control plants infected with TTO-CrtB resembled wild-type plants (Figures 7B and 7D). RT-PCR was performed to evaluate the silencing efficiency of Nb SAMT1 using primers annealing outside of the 5′ and 3′ ends of the fragment used for the TTO-Nb SAMT1 construct. Nb SAMT1 mRNAs were strongly reduced in silenced tissues compared with control tissues infected with TTO-CrtB and wild-type tissues (Figure 7E). A similar trend was observed using mRNA gel blot analysis (Figure 7F). [[FIGURE]] To examine the metabolic changes in plastids from Nb SAMT1–silenced plants, we analyzed the level of plastid pigments and prenyllipids of upper uninoculated leaves 3 weeks after inoculation. The total content of chlorophyll and plastoquinone-9 was reduced significantly in Nb SAMT1–silenced plants (Figures 8A and 8B ). This phenomenon was accompanied by an increased accumulation of γ-tocopherol in tissues expressing TTO-Nb SAMT1 (Figure 8B). No such changes were observed in upper uninoculated leaf tissues from control plants infected with TTO-CrtB and in wild-type plants (Figures 8A and 8B). By contrast, the carotenoid content remained essentially unchanged. To evaluate the effect of Nb SAMT1 silencing on the chlorophyll pathway, upper uninoculated leaves were detached from Nb SAMT1–silenced plants, TTO-CrtB–infected plants, and wild-type plants and fed with 5-aminolevulinate, as shown above. Similar to what was observed in the Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion mutant, leaf tissues of Nb SAMT1–silenced plants exhibited a higher content of MgProto IX and higher MgProto IX to MgProto IX Me ratio compared with control tissues of TTO-CrtB and wild-type tissues (Figure 8C). This observation strongly suggests that Nb SAMT1 is required for the import of SAM from the cytosol, as shown above for samt1, and further supports the notion that Nb SAMT1 functions as a transporter in the plastid envelope. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Chemicals were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich, and radiochemical [14C]SAM was purchased from GE Healthcare and Amersham Biosciences. Reagents and enzymes for recombinant DNA techniques were obtained from Invitrogen, New England Biolabs, and Promega. Unless stated otherwise, Arabidopsis thaliana (Col-0), Nicotiana benthamiana, and Capsicum annum were grown on damp compost in a greenhouse under a light regime of 8 h of darkness and 16 h of light. Alternatively, Arabidopsis seeds were grown on 0.8% (w/v) agar-solidified Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 0.5% sucrose and kanamycin (50 μg/mL). 5-Aminolevulinate (5 mM) was fed to detached leaves (3-week-old rosette leaves) in the dark for 12 h at room temperature before extraction of porphyrins. For the isolation of Arabidopsis mitochondria, a cell suspension culture was used (CITATION). SAMT1, Ca SAMT1, and Nb SAMT1 cDNAs were cloned from Arabidopsis, C. annuum, and N. benthamiana, respectively, by RT-PCR (CITATION). The primers used for RT-PCR were derived from Arabidopsis genomic sequences and homologous ESTs from Solanum tuberosum (accession numbers BI178733 and BI179073), Nicotiana tabacum (accession number BP133973), C. annuum (accession number CA518170), and Solanum lycopersicum (accession number BG125859). The cDNAs were sequenced using an automatic DNA sequencer (ABI 3100; Applied Biosystems). Sequence comparisons were performed through the National Center for Biotechnology Information using BLAST programs (CITATION). Microarray gene expression data of the AtGenExpress Developmental Series were downloaded from the AtGenExpress website (http://www.weigelworld.org/resources/microarray/AtGenExpress/), and arithmetic means were calculated for each of the triplicate values of the 79 tested conditions provided by AtGenExpress. The data were loaded into the program Cluster (CITATION) and adjusted by median-centering rows and columns (in this order) for five consecutive rounds each, as described previously (CITATION). After data adjustment, genes and arrays were hierarchically clustered using the Spearman rank correlation coefficient as the metric of similarity and the average linkage-clustering method. The resulting hierarchically clustered gene expression data were visualized using the program TreeView (CITATION), and the cluster containing At4g39460 was identified. The DNA encoding the mature part of SAMT1 (amino acid residues 40 to 325 of the precursor protein) was amplified by PCR using a proofreading polymerase (Platinum Pfx polymerase; Invitrogen). As template, the cDNA encoding the precursor of SAMT1 (cloned into pBAD/Thio-TOPO; see below) was used. The forward primer was designed with a KpnI restriction site (5′-CAAAGGCTTTTTGGTACCTGTTA-3′), and the reverse primer contained the XbaI restriction site behind the stop codon (5′-CCTTCTAGATCGCCCTATTCTTC-3′). The PCR product was subcloned into pGEM-T Easy (Promega), and its sequence was verified (Research Technology Support Facility, Michigan State University). The DNA fragment was cloned in-frame with an N-terminal His tag into pYES-NT, a yeast expression vector (Invitrogen) under the control of the galactose-inducible GAL4 promoter. The resulting construct, pMSU133, was transformed into the Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain INVSc1 (Invitrogen). Transformation of yeast was performed by the lithium chloride method according to the instructions provided by the manufacturer. The transformants were selected on Synthetic Complete minimal agar plates lacking uracil (SC-U). For heterologous expression of SAMT1, 50 mL of SC-U induction medium containing 2% galactose was inoculated to an OD600 of 0.4 with yeast cells harboring pMSU133 grown overnight in 5 mL of SC-U containing 2% raffinose. The yeast cells were grown for 6 h aerobically at 30°C. Control cultures with an empty vector were processed in parallel. Cells from the induction culture were harvested by centrifugation (3000g, 10 min), resuspended in 500 μL of ice-cold breaking buffer (50 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.4, 1 mM EDTA, 5% glycerol, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 0.1 mM 4-[2-aminoethyl]-benzenesulfonylfluoride), and disrupted by vigorous agitation for 2 min with acid-washed glass beads (0.4 to 0.6 mm; Sigma-Aldrich) in a tissue homogenizer (Vibration Mill type MM301; Retsch). Glass beads and cell debris were removed by centrifugation (600g, 1 min, 4°C), and the total membrane fraction was collected from the supernatant by ultracentrifugation (100,000g, 45 min, 4°C). The membrane pellet was resuspended in 50 μL of ice-cold 10 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5, and 0.8 mM MgCl2. An aliquot of the membrane fraction was analyzed by SDS-PAGE, and the expression of the recombinant protein was detected by SDS-gel blot analysis using a monoclonal anti-penta-His antibody (Qiagen). The 100,000g membrane fraction obtained from 50 mL of galactose-induced yeast cells expressing SAMT1 was reconstituted into liposomes, and the transport activity of SAM was tested in the presence or absence of internal counter-exchange substrates. Liposomes were prepared by sonicating acetone-washed soybean phospholipids (8%, w/v; Sigma-Aldrich) in 100 mM Tricine-KOH, pH 7.8, 30 mM potassium gluconate, and 20 mM internal substrate for 10 min at 4°C (unless stated otherwise). Yeast membranes were incorporated into the liposomes without solubilization by a freeze-thaw step as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). After thawing at room temperature, the proteoliposomes were sonicated again to form unilamellar vesicles. Unincorporated substrates were removed by passing the liposomes over PD10 gel filtration columns (GE Healthcare) that were equilibrated with 10 mM Tricine-KOH, pH 7.6, 100 mM sodium gluconate, and 50 mM potassium gluconate. The eluted proteoliposomes were used for the uptake experiments within the next 30 min. The time-dependent uptake of SAM was started by adding [14C]SAM (53 mCi/mmol) to the proteoliposomes at room temperature. The uptake reactions were terminated by passing aliquots over Dowex AG-50W-X8 columns (100 to 200 mesh resin, hydrogen form; Bio-Rad), which had been preequilibrated with 150 mM lithium acetate, pH 7.5 (acetic acid). Radiolabeled substrate that was not incorporated into the liposomes during the uptake assay was removed by binding to the cation-exchange column; radiolabeled substrate contained in the liposomes eluting from the columns was quantified by scintillation counting (Tri-Carb 2100TR; Packard). The nucleotide fragment encoding the N-terminal 80 amino acids (Met-1 to Thr-80) of SAMT1 was fused in-frame with the codon-optimized GFP S65C mutant gene (CITATION), with expression driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter using the pCATsGFP plasmid. Forward 5′-CATGCCATGGGAATGGCTCCTCTTACTCTCTCCGTTGAGTGAAGAGC-3′ and reverse 5′-CATGCCATGGGTAGTCTTAATAGTATCAATTGGGTATAAAGCTGTTTC-3′ primers possessing NcoI restriction sites were used for PCR amplification and insertion into the NcoI site of pCATsGFP. The resulting plasmid, designated 35S-SAMT1(Met1-Thr80)-GFP, and the 35S-GFP used as a control were verified by DNA sequence analysis and introduced into N. benthamiana protoplasts prepared from leaf cuttings. The purified plasmids (20 μg per 2 × 106 protoplasts) were introduced into the protoplasts using polyethylene glycol according to a described procedure (CITATION). Expression of the fusion construct was monitored after 20 h of incubation at 25°C in the dark. The samples were examined using a Zeiss LSM510 confocal laser scanning microscope equipped with an Axiovert 100 inverted microscope. The filter sets used were BP505-545 (excitation, 488 nm; emission, 505 to 545 nm) and LP585 (excitation, 488 nm; emission, 585 nm) to detect GFP and the chlorophyll autofluorescence. The images were processed using ImageJ version 1.33 (National Institutes of Health; http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij). Leaf samples were extracted as described previously (CITATION) except that dichloromethane:methanol (2:1, v/v) was used. After concentration under a nitrogen stream, the lipid extract was analyzed by HPLC using the SpectraSYSTEM (ThermoFinnigan) comprising an SCM1000 solvent degasser, a P1-1000XR gradient pump, an AS3000 autosampler, and a UV6000LP diode array detector. Data acquisition and processing were performed using ChromQuest version 3 software (ThermoFinnigan) (CITATION). For carotenoids and chlorophylls, a linear gradient of acetonitrile:water (90:10, v/v) to 100% ethyl acetate was used. For plastoquinone and phylloquinone, an isocratic mobile phase composed of methanol:hexane (80:20, v/v) was used. The absorbance of the eluate was monitored at 263 nm. Peak assignments were ascertained based on the spectral changes after reduction of oxidized forms using NaBH4 (CITATION). Phylloquinone and plastoquinone isolated from tobacco leaves were used as standards for the quantitative determination of the amount of quinones. Tocopherols were separated using an isocratic mobile phase containing acetonitrile:methanol:dichloromethane (60:35:5, v/v), and the eluates were monitored at an excitation wavelength of 290 nm and emission of 330 nm using a scanning fluorescence detector (SpectraSYSTEM FL3000; ThermoFinnigan). For porphyrin analysis, leaf samples were frozen in liquid nitrogen and extracted with acetone:water:NH4OH (9:1:0.1, v/v). HPLC analysis was performed on a C18 reverse phase column as described above. The column was eluted using a linear gradient of acetone:water (60:40, v/v) to acetone for 40 min (CITATION). Eluates containing MgProto IX and MgProto IX Me were monitored at 415 nm for excitation and 595 for emission. Peak assignments were based on a comparison with authentic MgProto IX (Porphyrin Products). Truncated SAMT1 cDNA was amplified by PCR using the forward primer 5′-GTAATGCAGAGTTCACAGCTC-3′ and the reverse primer 5′-TTCTTCTTTGGTTTCTTTAACCG-3′ and cloned into the pBAD/TOPO ThioFusion vector as described previously (CITATION). Transformed Escherichia coli (TOP10) was grown to an OD600 of 0.5 at 19°C in Luria-Bertani medium containing ampicillin (100 μg/mL) before being induced with 0.02% arabinose and overnight culture. Bacterial cells were pelleted by centrifugation before lysis by sonication in 50 mM Tris-HCl buffer, pH 7.6, containing 1 mM DTT and 2% Triton X-100 (CITATION). SAMT1 was purified using affinity chromatography at 4°C with ProBond resin (Invitrogen) as described by the manufacturer's protocol, except that 2% Triton X-100 was included in the buffers. The purified protein was used for rabbit immunization. A T-DNA insertion line for SAMT1 (At4g39460), seed stock identifier SALK_008248, was identified as samt1 from the Sequence-Indexed Library of Insertion Mutations using the Arabidopsis Gene Mapping Tool (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress), and the seed stocks were obtained from the ABRC. The mutant was characterized according to described procedures (CITATION). The genotype of the knockout mutant line was analyzed by PCR and RT-PCR using primers specific for the SAMT1 open reading frame (forward: D1, 5′-ATGGCTCCTCTTACTCTCTCC-3′; D2, 5′-CGAAGAGGGTAATGCAGAGTTC-3′; reverse: R1, 5′-CCTCTGTAGGCACTCGAATC-3′; R2, 5′-GCAATCATTCGAACAGCACTG-3′) and the primer specific for the T-DNA insertion (LBa1, 5′-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG-3′). As a positive control, RT-PCR amplification of α-tubulin mRNA was performed using the forward (5′-GAGATTGTTGATCTGTGCTTG-3′) and reverse (5′-CTCTGCGGAGATGACTGGGGC-3′) primers. The T-DNA insertion was confirmed by DNA gel blot analysis. Five micrograms of genomic DNA was isolated from wild-type and heterozygous and homozygous samt1 mutant plants using the NucleoSpin Plant L kit (Macherey-Nagel), digested with SacI, separated by agarose gel electrophoresis before denaturation, and blotted onto nitrocellulose BA-85 membranes (Schleicher and Schuell). The blots were hybridized with the following 32P-labeled probes: probe I (PCR product [380 bp] amplified using forward 5′-CGAAGAGGGTAATGCAGAGTTC-3′ and reverse 5′-CTGAAGTCTAGTCTTAATAGTATC-3′ primers); probe II (KpnI-ScaI fragment [651 bp] of the T-DNA); and probe III (PCR product [440 bp] amplified using forward 5′-CTTAGTGATCCTGAGAACGCTC-3′ and reverse 5′-GTCAACGATTCCTTGATATTG-3′ primers). Hybridizations were performed at 65°C, and the filters were washed according to standard procedures (CITATION). The complementation of the T-DNA mutant was performed using Arabidopsis mutant lines heterozygous for samt1, because of the growth defect of the homozygous line. For complementation of the samt1 mutant, a genomic fragment (2.5 kb) corresponding to the coding region of SAMT1 was amplified by PCR using forward 5′-GCTCTAGAATGGCTCCTCTTACTCTCTCCGTTGATG-3′ and reverse 5′-GCTCTAGATTATTCTTCTTTGGTTTCTTTAACCG-3′ primers containing XbaI sites. The resulting 2.5 kb fragment was sequenced and cloned into the XbaI site of the binary pKYLX71-35S2 vector (CITATION) and introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1pMP90. Transformation of heterozygous samt1 was performed according to the floral dip method (CITATION). Because the T-DNA mutant and the pKYLX71-35S2 vector used in the complementation experiments both confer resistance to kanamycin, all kanamycin-resistant plants except homozygous samt1 were removed from the agar plates and grown on damp compost at a density of five seedlings per pot. Rosette leaves from the resulting plants were used for genomic DNA extraction using the NucleoSpin Plant kit (Macherey-Nagel). Aliquots of purified DNA from plants growing in the same pot were pooled and used for a first variant of multiplex PCR. To this end, the forward (D1) and the two reverse (TRbcS, 5′-ACAAAATGTTTGCATATCTCTT-3′; and left border LBa1) primers were introduced in the same reaction mixture. The primer TRbcS was designed from the sequence of the pea (Pisum sativum) Rubisco small subunit terminator that is present in the pKYLX71-35S2 vector used to introduce the 35S-SAMT1 transgene. The TRbcs primer hybridizes only to the transgene. The forward (D1) and the reverse (left border LBa1) primers allowed the detection of native samt1. Pools displaying both 2.8- and 1-kb amplicons attributable to D1-TRbcS and D1-Lba1 primer combinations, respectively, were used for a second PCR to select from the pools individual samt1 lines harboring the 35S-SAMT1 transgene. During this second PCR step, purified DNA from each plant of the relevant pool was separately used as a template in combination with D1-TRbcS and D1-LBa1 primers. After this step, isolated samt1 lines harboring the 35S-SAMT1 transgene were used to analyze the absence of native SAMT1 in complemented lines (samt1/35S-SAMT1) by RT-PCR using the forward (D3) and reverse (3′ untranslated region of SAMT1 [3′utr SAMT1], 5′-CAAAGGGGTTACATTGTCACCTTAC-3′) primers. The 3′utr SAMT1 primer is not present in the 35S-SAMT1 transgene. Amplification of α-tubulin mRNA was used as a positive control. The cDNA fragments (0.5 kb) corresponding N. benthamiana (Nb SAMT1) and Pantoea agglomerans phytoene synthase (CrtB; P22872), used as a control, were amplified by PCR and cloned into the viral vector TTO (CITATION). For TTO-Nb SAMT1, the forward primer 5′-GCCTCGAGTTGAAGATGCTTCCTGAAAATCTTAGTGC-3′ and the reverse primer 5-TCCCTAGGCCAAAGCACTCTTGGACCGATGCCCTT-3′ containing XhoI and AvrII restriction sites, respectively, were used. For TTO-CrtB, the forward 5′-GCCTCGAGATTACGCCCCGCATGGCGCTCGATCAC-3′ and reverse 5′-TCCCTAGGGCGGCGATCCCAGGCGCTGCCTCCCGC-3′ primers containing XhoI and AvrII restriction sites, respectively, were used. The PCR and N. benthamiana transfection were performed as described previously (CITATION, CITATION). In plants transfected with TTO-Nb SAMT1, the detection of endogenous Nb SAMT1 transcripts was performed by RT-PCR (CITATION). Total RNA was extracted and used to transcribe a single-strand cDNA using random primers and SuperScript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen). Equal amounts of first-strand cDNAs were used as templates for PCR amplification using forward 5′-GGAAATCTTGCTGGAGTCCTACCG-3′ and reverse 5′-CTTTGAGGCTGCATTATCAGGAC-3′ primers annealing outside of the TTO-Nb SAMT1 construct. The N. benthamiana α-tubulin gene was used as an internal positive control for quantification of the relative cDNA amount. To this end, we used the forward 5′-ATGCTTTCATCATATGCCCCTGTG-3′ and reverse 5′-CAGCACCAACTTCCTCGTAATC-3′ primers for amplification. Upper uninoculated leaves from TTO-Nb SAMT1, TTO-CrtB, and wild-type plants were used for analysis. Chloroplasts were isolated from Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts (CITATION), and mitochondria were isolated from dark-grown Arabidopsis cell suspension cultures (CITATION). Chloroplast subfractions (stroma, thylakoid membranes, and envelope membranes) were isolated as described previously (CITATION) using 5-week-old Arabidopsis (ecotype Col-0) grown with a daylength of 12 h. To investigate whether SAMT1 is integrated into the chloroplast envelope membranes, purified chloroplast envelope membranes equivalent to 500 μg of proteins were extracted with 0.5 M Na2CO3, pH 11.5, or 1 M NaCl for 30 min at 0°C. After centrifugation at 100,000g for 1 h, the pellet containing the membranes and the supernatant were separated. The pellet (membranes) was dissolved in SDS sample buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8, 5% SDS, 0.5 M DTT, 30% glycerol, and 0.2% bromophenol blue), whereas the supernatant proteins were precipitated using 20% trichloroacetic acid before solubilization using the SDS sample buffer. Organelles and suborganellar fractions were prepared for electron microscopy as described previously (CITATION). The protein content of the extract was measured as described (CITATION). Proteins were resolved by SDS-PAGE followed by electroblotting (CITATION). The polyclonal antibodies to LHCIIb were raised against recombinant pea LHCIIb using a plasmid vector generously provided by H. Paulsen (CITATION). Antibodies to NAD9 for the respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (complex I) of mitochondria were a generous gift of G. Bonnard (Institut de Biologie Moléculaire des Plantes, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique). Antibodies to the plastid triose phosphate translocator were kindly provided by I. Flügge (CITATION). The antibodies raised against 1-deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate synthase have been described previously (CITATION). Protein gel blots were visualized using the enhanced chemiluminescence system (Amersham Biosciences). The uptake of SAM into plastids was estimated by silicone layer-filtering centrifugation (CITATION) using plastids isolated from leaf protoplasts (CITATION). Chloroplast suspensions equivalent to 50 μg of chlorophyll were isolated from Col-0 and mutant lines and incubated at 25°C for 1 min in the presence of 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, containing 0.33 M sorbitol and 200 μM [14C]SAM before centrifugation and determination of the radioactivity by liquid scintillation counting (Beckman LS-6500). Chlorophyll content was determined as described by CITATION. Purified plastids were extracted with 20% trichloroacetic acid, and SAM recovered in the soluble fraction was converted to fluorescent isoindoles subsequently analyzed by HPLC (CITATION; CITATION). Total RNA was extracted from different Arabidopsis or N. benthamiana organs and tissues using the NucleoSpin RNA Plant L kit (Macherey-Nagel). RNA gel blot analysis was performed as described previously (CITATION) using a 32P-labeled SAMT1 probe (PCR product [544 bp] amplified using forward D3 5′-GGAGGTGGAAAAATTGTTTTGAAG-3′ and reverse R3 5′-GTCAACGATTCCTTGATATTG-3′ primers) and a 32P-labeled Nb SAMT1 probe (PCR product [662 bp] amplified using forward 5′-GGAAATCTTGCTGGAGTCCCG-3′ and reverse 5′-CCTTGAGGCTGCATTATCAGGAC-3′ primers). 18S rRNA 32P-labeled probes from Arabidopsis (PCR product [400 bp] amplified using forward 5′-GACGCGGGCTCTGGCTTGCTCTG-3′ and reverse 5′-CTGCAACAACTTAAATATACGC-3′ primers) and N. benthamiana (PCR product [400 bp] amplified using forward 5′-CGATGGTAGGATAGTGGCCTAC-3′ and reverse 5′-CAATTAAGGCCAGGAGCGCATC-3′ primers) were used to verify equivalent sample loading. The prehybridization, hybridization, and washing conditions were as described previously (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers AJ627908 (SAMT1), AJ627178 (Ca SAMT1), and AJ619956 (Nb SAMT1). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Similarity between Plant, Yeast, and Human Organelle SAMTs. Supplemental Figure 2. RNA Gel Blot Analysis of SAMT1 in Various Tissues. Supplemental Figure 3. Expression of Recombinant SAMT1 and Specificity of Anti-SAMT1. Supplemental Figure 4. Functional Complementation of samt1 with SAMT1. Supplemental Table 1. Expression Data Showing Genes Clustering with SAMT1.
