!~ABS~! EMB506 is a chloroplast protein essential for embryo development, the function of which is unknown. A two-hybrid interaction screen was performed to provide insight into the role of EMB506. A single interacting partner, AKRP, was identified among a cDNA library from immature siliques. The AKR gene (Zhang et al., 1992, Plant Cell 4, 1575–1588) encodes a protein containing five ankyrin repeats, very similar to EMB506. Protein truncation series demonstrated that both proteins interact through their ankyrin domains. Using reverse genetics, we showed that loss of akr function resulted in an embryo-defective (emb) phenotype indistinguishable from the emb506 phenotype. Transient expression of the signal peptide of AKRP fused to green fluorescent protein demonstrated the chloroplast localization of AKRP. The ABI3 promoter was used to express AKR in a seed-specific manner in order to analyse the post-embryonic effect of AKR loss of function in akr/akr seedlings. Homozygous fertile and viable akr/akr plants were obtained. These plants exhibited mild to severe defects in chloroplast and leaf cellular organization. We conclude that EMB506 and AKRP are involved in crucial and tightly controlled events in plastid differentiation linked to cell differentiation, morphogenesis and organogenesis during the plant life cycle.
!~RES~! We previously described the essential role of the EMB506 protein in embryo and chloroplast development (CITATION; CITATION). Homozygous emb506 embryos are arrested at the globular stage. Analysis of the EMB506 protein sequence revealed a prominent C-terminal ankyrin domain composed of five ANK repeats. ANK are known to function as protein–protein interaction domains (CITATION). To obtain further insight into the function of EMB506, we used the yeast two-hybrid screen to search for proteins interacting with EMB506. The EMB506 protein lacking the chloroplast targeting signal peptide was fused to the Gal4 activation domain to serve as bait. Nineteen cDNA clones were identified among a cDNA library constructed with RNA from immature siliques (CITATION). These positive clones corresponded to transcription products of the same gene. blast searches in databases identified the gene as At5g66055, which codes for AKRP (ankyrin repeat protein), the protein most similar to EMB506 (CITATION). Series of truncations of each protein were performed to define the interacting domains of AKRP and EMB506. The results presented in Figure 1 demonstrate that the two proteins bind through their ANK domains, and that binding is independent of the type of Gal4 domains used for the fusion. However, binding was more efficient when the amino acids of exon II upstream of the ANK domain were present. When the ANK domain of AKR was reduced to three repeats, the interaction with EMB506 was abolished. As the ANK domains of EMB506 and AKRP are the most similar among the family of 105 Arabidopsis proteins containing ANK repeats (CITATION), we tested whether EMB506 or AKRP could form homodimers. No homodimerizations of EMB506 or AKRP were observed (data not shown). The latter result indicates that these two proteins possess specific amino acids that distinguish their ANK domain. Searching in databases for homologues of AKRP and EMB506 in other species may identify these key amino acid residues. [[FIGURE]] Using the AKRP sequence, at least 90 ESTs belonging to 30 different plant species could be recovered. When the conceptual translation of these ESTs contained an ankyrin domain, in two-thirds of cases it was associated with a partial N-terminal sequence similar to the AKRP N-terminus, ruling out the possibility of being an orthologue of EMB506 or of an ANK protein with no relationship to AKRP. Putative AKR orthologues could be identified only in higher plants, and none was detected in animals or microorganisms. Even among photosynthetic species including cyanobacteria, eukaryotic unicellular algae or mosses, no similar sequence was found. The AKR gene therefore appears to be restricted to the angiosperm and gymnosperm lineages. Studies with the EMB506 sequence revealed a similar higher plant-specific distribution. In organisms where sufficient sequence data were available, both AKRP and EMB506 were detected. The alignment of EMB506 and AKRP and their putative orthologues is shown in Figure 2. Although no similarity could be detected between AKRP and EMB506 in their N-terminal part, conservation of some residues in the immediate vicinity of the ankyrin domain encoded by exon II does exist, and these amino acids were included in the alignment in Figure 2. Residues that were similar between AtAKRP and AtEMB506 are also conserved between their putative orthologues (highlighted in grey scale) and belong mostly to the consensus of the ankyrin domain. Some residues were conserved only among the EMB506 proteins (highlighted in blue), others in the AKRP proteins (green). Despite the fact that EMB506 and AKRP share a high degree of similarity and are clustered together in a single clade (CITATION), the specific residues together with the N-terminal regions could confer properties and functions unique to the EMB506 or AKRP protein. This idea is consolidated further by the interaction of EMB506 and AKRP, the absence of homodimerization, and the lethal phenotype of EMB506 loss of function (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] As EMB506 is localized in the chloroplast, we wanted to test whether this is also the case for its interacting partner, AKRP. Constructions were designed to fuse the AKR sequence to green fluorescent protein (GFP). However, further characterization of the AKR transcript was necessary before its utilization. CITATION reported the first sequence of the AKR mRNA in the Landsberg ecotype (M82883). These authors translated the longest ORF of the messenger RNA into a protein of 439 amino acids, and suggested that AKRP was located in the nucleus, based on sequence similarities. However, the putative ATG-initiation codon in the AKR sequence in Landsberg was substituted by GTG in the Columbia genomic sequence and was not included in the full-length AKR mRNA sequence in Columbia (AY052363). Thus the AKR gene in Col0 encodes a protein of 435 amino acids, which lacked the first 29 amino acids of the original Landsberg sequence, but gained 25 amino acids at the C-terminus due to the position of the stop codon at the end of the last ANK repeat. With this new protein sequence, the bioinformatic tools predicted a putative signal peptide of 36 amino acids directing AKRP to plastids. In addition, two different gene products for AKR are predicted at The Arabidopsis Information Resource website (http://www.arabidopsis.org). At5g66055.1 produces a protein of 435 amino acids containing five ANK repeats; At5g66055.2, a splice variant, would code for a protein of 359 amino acids with an ANK domain lacking the last two repeats (arrow in Figure 2). As the alternative splicing occurs at the 3′ end extremity of the mRNA, both gene products are presumably targeted to the chloroplast. We tested this hypothesis by fusing GFP to the C-terminus of either the signal peptide or the two AtAKRP proteins. These constructs were introduced into tobacco leaf cells by particle bombardment, and expression of the fusion proteins was determined in the guard cells and epidermal cells, which contain photosynthetically active chloroplasts (CITATION). EMB506 was used as a positive control for chloroplast localization. A typical bombarded guard cell showed a co-localization of the EMB506-GFP and the chlorophyll fluorescence signals (Figure 3j–l, n = 49). Similar results were obtained when the 50 first amino acids of AKRP were fused to GFP (Figure 3a–c, n = 113). This result confirmed the existence of a signal peptide for targeting AKRP to the chloroplasts. However, when the entire AKRP protein (n = 27) or the variant protein vAKRP (n = 34) was fused to GFP, the expression of either fusion protein was deleterious to the chloroplasts. Guard cells expressing AKRP-GFP contained several small structures emitting both the red chlorophyll fluorescence and the GFP signal (compared with the non-transformed guard cell of the same stomata), and are shown in Figure 3d–f. Figure 3g–i shows a close-up of these structures, which were absent in SP-(AKRP)-GFP bombarded cells. A similar effect of overexpression of the full-length AKRP protein on chloroplasts was observed in epidermal cells (for AKRP-GFP, n = 231; vAKRP-GFP, n = 170; SP-(AKRP)-GFP, n = 209). Typical images of epidermal cells of tobacco leaves expressing the AKRP-GFP protein are shown in Figure 3n,p and compared with SP-(AKRP)-GFP in Figure 3m, EMB506-GFP in Figure 3o and AtDEFECTIVE CHLOROPLASTS AND LEAVES-GFP (AtDCL, At1g45230) in Figure 3q. The GFP pattern of AKRP was clearly different from the labelling of the GFP fused to the signal peptide only or to EMB506 and AtDCL, markers of chloroplasts. [[FIGURE]] We analysed the expression of AKR in the major plant organs by RT-PCR in comparison with the expression of EMB506 in the same samples (Figure 4, upper panel). Transcripts of both genes were detected in all tissues. In contrast to EMB506, AKR was expressed at higher levels in roots than in leaves. Two bands were obtained for AKR and sequenced. The variant mRNA contained the unspliced fifth intron as predicted. Western blot experiments were performed to analyse the correlation between transcription and translation of the AKR gene. Antibodies were raised against the specific portion of AKRP protein, the N-terminal moiety from aa 36–247, and used to determine the occurrence and abundance of the protein in different plant tissues (Figure 4, upper panel). Three bands were detected with the AKRP antibodies. The band at 49 kDa may represent the precursor of AKRP before removal of the signal peptide. The lower band, the size of which corresponded to the truncated AKRP, was found predominantly in flower buds and siliques, although we cannot rule out the possibility of its being a proteolytic degradation of the full-length AKRP. The band at 45 kDa corresponded to the mature form of AKRP with five ANK repeats. This protein accumulated predominantly in leaves and inflorescence stems, and this result correlated with the RT-PCR data. [[FIGURE]] If EMB506 and AKRP interaction has a functional significance, we expect akr and emb506 mutants to display some mutant features in common. The function of the AKR gene was investigated by reverse genetics. Two independent T-DNA akr alleles (emb2036-1 and emb2036-2) were identified in the SeedGenes database (http://www.seedgenes.org, CITATION). Allelic tests were performed by Meinke's group, and demonstrated that loss of AKR function was responsible for the embryo defective phenotype. emb2036-1 was used further in this study and hereafter named the akr allele. akr mutant embryos are characterized by a developmental arrest at the globular stage. At late globular stage, akr embryos already showed slightly swollen cells compared with the wild type (Figure 4a,b), although a clear difference between wild-type and mutant embryos appeared at the transition from radial to bilateral symmetry (Figure 4c,d). When wild-type embryos reached the mature stage, akr mutants never developed cotyledons but did grow radially (Figure 4e–h). Cytological observations revealed that there was no easily recognizable tissue organization in late akr mutants (Figure 4i–l). In contrast, endosperm cellularization proceeded normally with the same developmental timing as in the wild type (beginning at the heart stage), although the akr mutant embryos were still blocked at the globular stage (Figure 4j). We examined the ultrastructure of plastids in akr embryos. Wild-type cells of the globular embryo contain undifferentiated proplastids (Figure 5a), while plastids of the endosperm tissue appeared more differentiated with a few thylakoids (Figure 5b). At wild-type torpedo stage, coincident with the greening of the seed, plastids of both the embryo proper and the endosperm exhibited grana and two to four starch granules. The starch accumulation was more intense in the endosperm than in the embryo (Figure 5c,d). In the akr seed at wild-type torpedo stage (as defined by the wild-type siblings of the same silique), plastids were poorly differentiated, with few internal membranes (Figure 5e,f). By these criteria, akr plastids were similar to plastids of wild-type embryos at the globular stage. However, plastids of akr mutants accumulated starch similarly to wild-type torpedo seeds. The plastids in emb506 embryo and endosperm cells (Figure 5g,h) were indistinguishable from those in akr cells. These observations suggest that AKRP and EMB506 are required for normal plastid differentiation, but not for starch accumulation. [[FIGURE]] To assess AKRP function during vegetative growth, a complementation experiment was undertaken using the seed-specific ABI3 promoter driving the expression of the AKR cDNA, encoding a protein of 435 amino acids (Despres et al., 2001). Six independent primary transformants were studied during three to four successive generations. The ABI3::AKR transgene was able to complement the akremb phenotype as the siliques contained significantly less than 25%emb seeds (Table 1). The T2 seeds, when sown on germinating medium without antibiotic, produced wild-type seedlings and 12–25% seedlings with abnormal morphology. Abnormal seedlings, classified A–C according to the severity of defects, were shown to be homozygous for the akr mutation (Figure 6a,b). RT-PCR with RNA extracted from class A–C seedlings confirmed the absence of AKR transcripts (Figure 6c), while the EMB506 transcripts were present at a level similar to the wild type (Figure 6c). We concluded that lack of AKR gene expression does not affect the transcription of the gene encoding its EMB506 partner. aEstimated by antibiotic selection and PCR. *χ2 based on the non-complementation ratio of 0.25. Ratios are significantly different when χ2 > 3.84. Class: A, first rosette leaves small and white; B, rosette leaves display both white and green areas; C, rosette leaves present only very small white areas. [[FIGURE]] Class A akr seedlings were the most affected. On germination, cotyledons were green and phenotypically wild type, but the first two leaves were small, misshapen and white with small green patches (Figure 7a,d). Class B seedlings displayed rosette leaves that contained white and green patches (Figure 7b). Class C seedlings were able to form rosette leaves with limbs composed of green and yellow patches (Figure 7c). Growth and development of the seedlings correlated with the extent of green areas. Class A seedlings achieved their development with the first two leaves. Class B and C seedlings produced a rosette. In some cases for class B and for all cases of class C, plants were able to produce flowers (Figure 7g,h). Floral defects were observed in class B plants and included depigmentation of sepals, malformation of organs (Figure 7e,f) and reduced fertility (short siliques in Figure 7g). Plants from class C produced siliques of normal size and seed number. For classes B and C, the lines could be maintained as homozygous akr/akr. Some arrests at globular-torpedo stages of seed development were observed in siliques from class B plants. In class C, most of the seeds were green and apparently fully developed. When the seeds were examined more thoroughly, the majority presented morphological defects (Figure 7i–k). Cotyledons were often misshapen, while the hypocotyl and root meristem were mostly normal. The surface of the cotyledons was irregular and wavy, indicating defects in tissue and cell organization (Figure 7k). By complementation using the CaMV35S promoter, homozygous akr/akr plants were also obtained, though the complementation was not complete. Mild to severe leaf defects were observed in akr/+ and akr/akr seedlings (Figure 7l–n). The phenotype ranged from reduction of chlorophyll content, usually in a patchy pattern reminiscent of partially complemented akr plants, to abnormal leaf morphology. As these defects were observed in the progeny of the three independent lines, this phenotype was probably due to ectopic and/or overexpression of AKR rather than a co-suppression event. [[FIGURE]] As some depigmented Arabidopsis mutants exhibit defects in leaf tissue organization (CITATION; CITATION), we examined the leaf sections of akr/akr ABI3:AKR. A typical leaf of each class is represented in Figure 8(a–c); Figure 8(d) represents a wild-type leaf. In each mutant class, the thickness of the leaf (Figure 8e–g) was increased significantly in comparison with the wild type (Figure 8h). White areas of class A (Figure 8e,i) and class B (Figure 8f,j) leaves were severely disorganized with large intercellular spaces and a reduced number of mesophyll cells, while the epidermis, palisade and spongy mesophyll layers were still recognizable in class C plants. However, the greater blade thickness in class C plants was also due to an increase in cell diameter and a decrease in cell contact (Figure 8g,k). The number of plastids in the large cells of mutant leaves did not appear to be reduced significantly, indicating that plastids were not defective in division. We concluded that the lack of AKRP affects cell division, cell shape, cell adhesion and differentiation. The ultrastructures of plastids from wild-type leaves and white sectors of class A plants are presented in Figure 8m–p. Plastids in white sectors, although they did not contain chlorophyll like the proplastids found in globular embryo cells (Figure 5a) or akr/akr embryos (Figure 5e), were larger than proplastids (Figure 8o–p). Lamellae were clearly visible and similar to those found in chloroplasts, but no grana stacks were present (Figure 8m,n). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis plants were grown in soil or on Petri dishes under constant illumination at 22°C. The akr mutation used in this work is the emb2036-1 allele of At5g66055 in Columbia ecotype (CITATION). Plants were selected in vitro on germination medium containing 10 mg l−1 glufosinate-ammonium (Cluzeau Info Lab, Sainte Foy-La-Grande, France). The experiments were performed using the Gal4 system vectors of Clontech (Takara Bio Inc., Shiga, Japan) and according to CITATION. The cDNA library from immature siliques was cloned in fusion with the activation domain of Gal4 in the Stratagene Hybridzap 2.1 system (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA; CITATION). The cDNA corresponding to the EMB506 protein (without the signal peptide) was amplified by PCR with primers 506-2 (5′-AAGTCGACGAGGAAGCTCCGTCAAG-3′) and 506-4 (5′-CTCTGCAGCTCTTTCTATATATCCC-3′), cloned into the SalI and PstI sites of the pBD vector and used as a bait. For the study of the interacting domains of EMB506 and AKRP, series of primers, including the SalI or PstI sites for directional cloning in pAD or pBD vectors, were designed for amplification of the chosen sequences. Siliques were partially opened under the binocular and fixed in ethanol/acetic acid (3/1 vol) for 20 min and rehydrated by several passages in ethanol series. The samples were mounted in Hoyer's solution on microscopy slides (CITATION). Preparations were observed using Nomarski optics with a Zeiss Axioplan microscope equipped with a digital Leica camera (DC 300FX; Leica-Microsystems GmbH, Wetzlar, Germany). Histological sections were produced as described by CITATION. For electron microscopy, leaves of wild-type or partially complemented plants were cut into small pieces of a few mm. Wild-type or akr seeds were isolated from the same silique. Seeds were punctured with a needle to ensure efficient penetration of the fixative. The material was incubated for 6–12 h in 6% glutaraldehyde in 200 mm phosphate buffer pH 6.8 at 4°C and post-fixed overnight in 2% OsO4. Samples were dehydrated in ethanol series and embedded in Araldite (Agar Scientific, Stansted, UK). Ultrathin sections of 100 nm were stained for 15 min in uranyl acetate solution followed by 5 min in lead citrate. The sections were examined at 80 kV in a Hitachi 7500 microscope (Hitachi High-Technologies Corp., Tokyo, Japan). A 5-kb ABI3-promoter containing a KpnI restriction site near the initiation codon (CITATION) was used to build the translational ABI3:AKR fusion. The AKR coding sequence was amplified using primers akr20 (5′-TTGGTACCAATGCAGTCACTCTCCACCCCACA-3′) and akr16 (5′-TTCTGCAGGGATCCCTATTCAATATCTTCATCTGTTGT-3′). The ABI3:AKR fusion was inserted into pC23, a pCAMBIA 2300 derivative containing a kanamycin-resistance cassette. The 35S:AKR fusion was created by introducing an NcoI site at the translation initiation site of the AKR coding sequence, using primers akr9 (5′-AACCATGGCATCACTCTCCACCCCACACACC-3′) and akr16, and ligating the fragment to the duplicated CaMV35S promoter of the pRTL2-GUS plasmid (CITATION). The 35S::AKR fusion was inserted into pC23. Heterozygous akr plants were selected on Basta prior to transformation. T1 seeds were selected in vitro on Basta (10 mg l−1) and kanamycin (50 mg l−1, Duchefa Biochemie B.V., Haarlem, The Netherlands). Genotyping of the individual T1 seedling was performed (CITATION). Primers akr5M (5′-AGGAGGAGAGGAGAAAGCTCCGTTATTCA-3′) and akr14 (5′-TTGTCCTTCTTCGTCAGATTCA-3′) were used to amplify the wild-type allele of AKR, and primers akr5M and LB3 (5′-TAGCATCTGAATTTCATAACCAATCTCGATACAC-3′) to verify the presence of the T-DNA in AKR. The AKR cDNA was modified by introducing an NcoI site at the translation initiation site using the akr9 primer. Amplification of the DNA sequence coding for the first 50 amino acids was performed with akr9 and akr15 (5′-GCCATGGCACCTGCTCCGAGGATCGACGTTTGAGAAGAA-3′). For fusion of the AKR protein of 435 amino acids, the amplification was performed with akr9 and akr12 (5′-TCTAGACTCGAGGTACCGAGCTCACCATGGCAGCTGCTCCTTCAATATCTTCATCTGTTGTTACC-3′). In addition, a small linker of one glycine and four alanines were added between the AKRP and GFP proteins. For amplification of the splice variant, the primer akr22 (5′-TTCCCATGGATCCTACCCTGTCCTGAGCGT-3′) was designed. The fragments were inserted into the pPK100 vector (kindly provided by R. Blanvillain, Plant Gene Expression Centre, Albany, CA, USA) in frame with the EGFP sequence and downstream of a duplicated CaMV35S promoter. The EMB506-GFP fusion was described by CITATION). The plasmids were introduced into plant cells by biolistic using the Biorad gene-transformation apparatus (PDS-1000/He, Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). Gold beads of 1 μm diameter were coated with plasmid DNA and bombarded onto the lower face of tobacco leaves with a helium pressure of 1300 psi. Leaves were observed 12–24 h after bombardment using a confocal microscope (Leica TCS SP). The sample was excited with an argon ion laser at 488 nm. For visualization of EGFP fluorescence, the emission window was set at 500–540 nm with a pass-band filter and at 640 nm for chlorophyll emission. Optical slices were approximately 1 μm thick. RNA was extracted from two to three seedlings (cotyledons were removed) using an Invitrogen kit (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). Total RNA (250 ng) was used for synthesis of the first-strand cDNA following the protocol of the Stratagene Prostar RT-PCR kit. Two sets of primers were designed to test the expression of AKR. The first set, akr5M/akr14, flanked the T-DNA insertion site; the second set, akr14/akr7 (5′-TCGTCGACGGTCTCTTTCCTATTCTTC-3′), was positioned downstream of the T-DNA insertion. Specific amplification of the EMB506 cDNA sequence was obtained with the primers EMB5 (5′-TCTGCAAGGCTCCAACTTGAAC-3′) and EMB3 (5′-AGTGATTGGGAAGATGACTC-3′). EF1α (elongation factor1 α, At1g07940) was used as a marker for constitutive expression and amplified with primers EF5 (5′-CTGCTAACTTCACCTCCCAG-3′) and EF3 (5′-TGGTGGGTACTCAGAGAAGG-3′). To test the existence of the splice variant, RT-PCR was performed with akr13 (5′-TACATATGGGTCGACGGAATCCTGACCTAGCCGTT-3′ and ak3′ (5′-GGAAACTCTTTCAACAGCTTC-3′) primers. The cDNA portion encoding the first 247 amino acids of AKRP and lacking its ANK domain was amplified by PCR using primers akr10 (5′-AACATATGGGTCGACTTTCCTATTCTTCTCAAACGTC-3′) and akr11 (5′-TTCTGCAGCTAGGATCCATTGAGCATAAACTTCTCTTCTT-3′). The fragment was cloned in the pGEM-T vector (Promega, La Charbonnières, France). The insert was transferred to the pET16b expression vector (Novagen, EMDbiosciences, Darmstadt, Germany). The recombinant protein was expressed in the BL21 strain of Escherichia coli and purified on His-bind resin. Polyclonal antibodies from rabbits immunized with the recombinant AKRP were produced by Eurogentec (Liège, Belgium). Western blots and protein extraction were performed as described by CITATION.
