!~ABS~! Recessive mutations in the SIAMESE (SIM) gene of Arabidopsis thaliana result in multicellular trichomes harboring individual nuclei with a low ploidy level, a phenotype strikingly different from that of wild-type trichomes, which are single cells with a nuclear DNA content of ∼16C to 32C. These observations suggested that SIM is required to suppress mitosis as part of the switch to endoreplication in trichomes. Here, we demonstrate that SIM encodes a nuclear-localized 14-kD protein containing a cyclin binding motif and a motif found in ICK/KRP (for Interactors of Cdc2 kinase/Kip-related protein) cell cycle inhibitor proteins. Accordingly, SIM was found to associate with D-type cyclins and CDKA;1. Homologs of SIM were detected in other dicots and in monocots but not in mammals or fungi. SIM proteins are expressed throughout the shoot apical meristem, in leaf primordia, and in the elongation zone of the root and are localized to the nucleus. Plants overexpressing SIM are slow-growing and have narrow leaves and enlarged epidermal cells with an increased DNA content resulting from additional endocycles. We hypothesize that SIM encodes a plant-specific CDK inhibitor with a key function in the mitosis-to-endoreplication transition.
!~RES~! Wild-type trichomes are unicellular and occur singly on the leaf (Figure 1A ). Three independent recessive sim mutant alleles have an essentially identical mutant phenotype of frequent multicellular trichomes and clusters of adjacent trichomes (Figures 1B and 1C). The sim-1 mutation was mapped to a region of ∼407 kb on chromosome five. Two markers located 66.5 kb apart on the overlapping BAC clones T32M21 and T19N18 showed no recombination in 1088 F2 chromosomes. Further attempts to reduce the genetic interval were unsuccessful. The sim-2 allele originated in a T-DNA insertion population (CITATION). One of the two inserts present in the original sim-2 T-DNA line showed linkage between the sim mutant phenotype and to both kanamycin resistance and β-glucuronidase (GUS) expression from an enhancer trap contained in the T-DNA. The right border of this T-DNA was obtained by adaptor PCR and shown by DNA sequencing to be positioned 1189 bp upstream of the coding region of the gene At5g04470, a gene located on the T32M21 BAC clone. The left border was located 1461 bp downstream, within the At5g04470 coding region, resulting in a deletion of these upstream sequences and the first 272 bp of the At5g04470 coding region (Figure 2A ). Sequencing of this gene for the original sim-1 allele revealed a point mutation changing the putative At5g04470 start codon from ATG to ATA, and a third allele, sim-3, contained a C→T mutation, resulting in a Pro-to-Ser amino acid change at position 36 (Figure 2A). In RT-PCR experiments, At5g04470 transcripts were detected in wild-type developing leaves but not in RNA isolated from the sim-2 deletion allele (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Finally, the sim-1 mutant phenotype was rescued by the At5g04470 coding region under control of the trichome-specific GL2 promoter (Figure 1D) and by a genomic DNA fragment including 2870 bp upstream of the At5g04470 start codon, the entire coding region, and 250 bp downstream of the stop codon (Figure 1E). Taken together, these results established that At5g04470 is the SIM gene and that sim-1 and sim-2 are likely to be amorphic alleles. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Conceptual translation of the open reading frame reveals that SIM encodes a 14-kD protein of unknown function. The SIM gene family of Arabidopsis contains at least four members, and homologs exist in other plant species, including both monocots and dicots (Figure 2B). Although SIM has no overall similarity with proteins of known function, several conserved motifs give clues as to its function. Motif 4 of the SIM family is similar to motif 3 of the CDK-inhibitory ICK/KRP proteins (CITATION; Figures 2B and 2C). Motif 3 of the SIM family (Figure 2B) is a putative cyclin binding motif known as the Cy or zRxL motif, where Z is basic or Cys, and X is usually a basic residue. This motif is implicated in binding of some CDK inhibitors, E2F and RB to CYCA, CYCE, and CYCD/CDK complexes (CITATION; CITATION). Motif 1 and motif 2 show no obvious similarity to any domains with known functions, although the motif 1 residue P36, mutated to Ser in sim-3, is conserved in all of the homologs. SIM (amino acids 26 to 40), SIAMESE-RELATED2 (SMR2) (amino acids 32 to 46), SMR3 (amino acids 33 to 44), Zm SMR2 (amino acids 98 to 109), and Glycine max SMR (amino acids 21 to 33) also have PEST domains (PESTfind scores > +6.96) enriched in Pro, Glu, Ser, and Thr residues that often serve as proteolytic signals (CITATION). In addition, SMR1 contains a consensus CDK phosphorylation site (S/TPXK/R) at residues 16-19. To determine the subcellular localization of the SIM protein, a 35S:EYFP:SIM (EYFP for enhanced yellow fluorescent protein) gene construct was introduced via biolistic bombardment directly into leaf epidermal cells of Arabidopsis. EYFP alone is cytoplasmically localized (Figure 3A ), while an EYFP fusion to the transcription factor TGA5 is nuclear localized (Figure 3B). EYFP:SIM expression was detected in nuclei (Figure 3C). The subcellular localizations of the SMRs from Arabidopsis were also determined using biolistic bombardment of EYFP fusions into epidermal cells. In all instances, the proteins were localized to nuclei (Figures 3D to 3F). [[FIGURE]] The presence of ICK/KRP-like domains and the Cy motif within the SIM protein suggested that it might associate with cyclins. To test this hypothesis, an ECFP:SIM (ECFP for enhanced cyan fluorescent protein) fusion protein was transiently expressed in the leaf epidermal cells of Arabidopsis, along with 35S:EYFP fusion proteins of several different core cell cycle proteins. Subsequently, protein–protein interaction in the cotransformed leaves was analyzed by the acceptor bleaching fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) method. As a positive-control FRET protein pair, the Arabidopsis transcription factor TGA5 (At5g06960), whose self-interaction in plants was previously detected by FRET analysis (CITATION), was used. As a negative control, the noninteracting LexA-NLS (a bacteria protein fused to SV40 T-antigen nuclear localization signal) and TGA5 proteins were used (CITATION). As an additional negative control, ECFP:SIM was tested for interaction with EYFP:LexA-NLS (Table 1 ). SIM Protein–Protein Interactions Determined by FRET We observed that SIM interacted with the D-type cyclins CYCD2;1, CYCD3;2, and CYCD4;1 and with CDKA;1 (Table 1). By contrast, no significant association was observed between SIM and any of the A- or B-type cyclins tested nor with the B-type CDK, CDKB1;1 (Table 1). One homolog, SMR2, was shown to interact with CYCD2;1, demonstrating that another SIM family member also associates with a D-type cyclin. B-type cyclins are required for mitosis and are not normally expressed in wild-type trichomes (CITATION). To determine whether B-type cyclins are expressed in sim mutant trichomes, a CYCB1;1:GUS fusion gene including the CYCB1;1 promoter and the N-terminal portion of the coding region that encodes the cyclin destruction box was introduced into sim plants by crossing. This fusion is thought to mimic the expression pattern of CYCB1;1 and has been used in other studies to identify G2/M cells (CITATION). We detected GUS expression in a fraction of developing sim trichomes (Figure 1G), presumably those in G2/M, suggesting that CYCB1;1 is ectopically expressed in these cells. No GUS expression was seen in >1000 trichomes of wild-type plants containing this construct. The existence of ESTs and our RT-PCR data indicate that SIM is expressed. Random amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) and sequencing of RT-PCR–derived cDNA was used to confirm the annotated transcript from public databases. 5′ RACE indicates that the 5′ terminus of the SIM transcript lies at chromosomal position 1267369 on chromosome five, 92 bp upstream of the start codon. 3′ RACE indicates that the 3′ terminus of this mRNA lies 217 bp downstream of the stop codon at chromosomal position 1266668. Sequencing of the complete PCR-amplified cDNA confirmed that, as annotated, the gene contains no introns. Tissue-specific expression of the SIM family was analyzed using quantitative RT-PCR. As can be seen in Figure 4A , all family members are expressed to some degree in all tissues examined: roots, stems, flowers, siliques, and rosettes. Although sim mutants have no obvious root phenotype (CITATION), SIM expression is particularly strong in root tissue (Figure 4A). While the overall expression pattern of the four genes is quite similar at this whole-tissue level, the relatively high expression level of SMR1 in all inflorescence tissue (stem, unopened flowers, and silique, Figure 4A) is notable. In situ hybridization to shoot apices shows that SIM is expressed throughout the shoot apical meristem and in leaf primordia (Figure 5 ), including developing trichomes (Figure 5A, closed arrows), and in procambial strands and developing vasculature (Figure 5A, open arrows). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As mentioned above, sim-2 mutants carry an insertion at the SIM locus that includes a GUS enhancer trap. The sim-2 mutants exhibit GUS expression in both developing and mature trichomes as well as in stipules (Figure 1F). Strong expression is also seen in the vasculature of both the aerial organs and the root (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). The relatively trichome-specific expression of the enhancer trap in developing leaves suggested that a trichome-specific enhancer was located either upstream or downstream of the SIM coding region. To test more directly whether some aspects of SIM expression were under the control of the trichome developmental pathway, we took advantage of Arabidopsis strains expressing various levels of function of the key trichome development transcription factor GL3 (CITATION; CITATION). Plants doubly mutant for gl3 and its functional duplicate egl3 lack GL3 function and produce no trichomes, while the GL3OE line used here overexpresses the GL3 transcript and produces a greater number of larger, extra-branched trichomes. Thus, genes that are specifically expressed during trichome development should therefore show little or no expression in gl3 egl3 mutants and increased expression in the GL3OE line. SIM transcript levels increase with increasing GL3 function, suggesting that SIM expression is at least partially under direct or indirect control of GL3 (Figure 4B). To investigate the biological role of SIM in plant development, transgenic plants expressing SIM ectopically from the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter were produced. Six transgenic lines containing the 35S:SIM construct were generated. Plants from five of the six lines showed a similar phenotype. SIM-overexpressing plants are dramatically reduced in size compared with the wild type (Figure 6A ). Quantitative RT-PCR revealed that these lines express ∼50- to 90-fold more SIM transcripts than wild-type plants. Although the overall size of the plant is greatly reduced, 35S:SIM plants (Figures 6B, 6D, and 6F) contain abnormally large epidermal cells in comparison with the wild type (Figures 6C and 6E). As observed by scanning electron microscopy, cell patterning is highly irregular. Cells of SIM-overexpressing plants are highly variable in size and shape, with the largest cells tending to occur in contiguous groups (Figures 6B and 6D). Cross sections reveal that the adaxial epidermis is the most strongly affected cell layer in the leaf, although enlarged subepidermal cells are occasionally observed (Figures 6E and 6F). Trichomes on the leaves of 35S:SIM plants did not obviously differ from those of the wild type in size or degree of branching, which is not surprising given that expression of SIM from the much stronger GL2 promoter did not affect trichome size or branching. However, when 35S:SIM was introduced into a sim-1 background, the results were unexpected. While 35S:SIM; sim-1 plants had fewer multicellular trichomes than did sim-1 plants (43/100 trichomes multicellular in 35S:SIM; sim-1 versus 54/100 multicellular in sim-1), this difference was not statistically significant (χ2 = 2.42, P = 0.120), indicating that 35S:SIM complements the mutation only partially if at all. This is in sharp contrast with pGL2:SIM, which completely complements sim-1. [[FIGURE]] Insight into this poor complementation of sim-1 by 35S:SIM and the cause of the patchy distribution of large cells in 35S:SIM plants was obtained from transgenic lines expressing N-terminal fluorescent protein:SIM fusions from the 35S promoter to test the in vivo functionality of these fusions. Plants expressing these constructs grew more slowly than wild-type plants and produced large epidermal cells (see Supplemental Figure 3 online), suggesting that they were functional in inhibiting mitosis in the leaf epidermis. However, like 35S:SIM, these 35S:GFP:SIM (GFP for green fluorescent protein) constructs complemented the sim-1 mutation only partially (39/96 trichomes multicellular in 35S:GFP:SIM; sim-1 versus 58/100 multicellular in sim-1), although in this case the complementation was significant (χ2 = 5.92, P = 0.015). Upon examining the GFP expression in multiple independent 35S:GFP:SIM lines, all plants showed strong expression in nondividing tissues of the root, but expression ceased abruptly at the root-shoot boundary at the base of the hypocotyl (see Supplemental Figure 3 online), and expression was absent in the root tip. Individual 35S:GFP:SIM plants showed rare and highly variable patterns of expression in leaf tissue, ranging from expression in a single cell type (guard cells, in one instance) to expression in small groups of cells within a leaf. Individual plants derived from the same single-insert-containing 35S:GFP:SIM line typically showed completely different patterns of reactivation of GFP expression in shoot tissues. Taken together, these observations suggest that there is strong selection against SIM expression in dividing tissues of the shoot and root and that in surviving plants, the transgene has been epigenetically silenced in these tissues. Furthermore, these results also suggest an explanation for the low frequency of large endoreplicated cells on the leaves of 35S:SIM plants; these cells may simply represent those few cells that have escaped complete silencing. These results also indicate that N-terminal fluorescent protein:SIM fusions are functional. The enlarged epidermal cells in SIM-overexpressing plants contain enlarged nuclei relative to wild-type epidermal cells (Figures 6G and 6H), as expected from the previously described correlation between cell size and nuclear DNA content in Arabidopsis leaves (CITATION). Analysis by flow cytometry confirms that the epidermal pavement cells of 35S:SIM plants undergo extra rounds of endoreplication (Figure 7A ), with increased levels of 8C, 16C, and 32C cells clearly detected at 15 and 21 d after sowing (DAS). However, the extremely large epidermal cells observed in Figures 6B, 6D, and 6F represent only a small fraction of the cells in a leaf, even in regions containing a patch of enlarged epidermal cells, and these rare large nuclei might be missed in the flow cytometry experiments. [[FIGURE]] To estimate the DNA contents of the largest epidermal cells, in situ measurements were made of 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI)-stained nuclei of the largest class of adaxial epidermal cells on 35S:SIM plants and compared with equivalent measurements for wild-type adaxial epidermal cells (Figure 7B). In these experiments, the data are presented in terms of relative fluorescence units (RFUs) of DAPI fluorescence detected in the nuclei, but the data have been normalized to the mean value of 4.4C for the DNA content of wild-type Col epidermal nuclei (CITATION); thus, the RFU values should represent the approximate DNA contents of the nuclei. On this basis, the nuclei of the enlarged epidermal pavement cells of 35S:SIM plants have DNA contents on average of 93.6 ± 45.9C (Figure 7B). However, the 35S:SIM nuclei clearly fall into two major clusters of ∼42 and 85 RFU. Because these clusters are almost exactly twofold different in apparent DNA content, and given that in situ DNA contents are complicated by irregular nuclear shapes, background fluorescence, and other factors, a reasonable interpretation is that these two peaks represent nuclei with 32C and 64C DNA contents, respectively. In this case, the largest class of cells would consist primarily of 64C cells, with a substantial number of 32C cells and a few cells of higher C value. This interpretation is broadly consistent with the results of the flow cytometry study, although no 64C cells were detected by flow cytometry. The very largest cells in the adaxial epidermis of these leaves included only a few dozen cells per leaf, and it is possible that the nuclei of these cells were missed in the flow cytometry. However, it should be noted that the plants for flow cytometry and in situ observations were grown under different conditions; plants for flow cytometry were grown on plates for 21 d, while plants for the in situ measurements were grown on soil for 28 d. These differences in growth conditions may explain the differences in the highest ploidy detected.
!~MM~! The sim-2 allele, generated by insertional mutagenesis with the T-DNA pD991, originally segregated two inserts. Linkage between a single T-DNA insert and the sim phenotype and kanamycin resistance was established. The T-DNA right border junction was recovered from genomic DNA by an adaptor PCR method (CITATION) using pD991-specific primers available on the Jack lab website (www.dartmouth.edu/∼tjack/index.html). To pinpoint the position of the pD991 insert in entirety, PCR reactions with various combinations of primers in the At5g04470 region were performed. Failure to amplify a region in sim-2 DNA was indication of the insert; wild-type DNA was used as a positive control for the primers. Finally, the exact position of the left border of pD991 was identified by sequencing a DNA fragment that was PCR amplified using a primer specific for the left border, oligo 156 (5′-CCCTATAAATACGACGGATCG-3′), and primer specific for a region of sim-2 that is able to be amplified, T32m21-23337L (5′-ACATACTTGTGCATGTGCCTCTCGC-3′). For molecular complementation analysis, the genomic coding sequence of At5g04470, 2870 bp of upstream sequence, and 250 bp downstream sequence was PCR amplified from the BAC clone T32M21 using the primers simwhole3500 L (5′-AGCATAAACA-CCAAGAGAGGACC-3′) and simwhole R (5′-ATACTTGTGCATGTGCCTCTCCT-3′). This fragment was cloned into the pCR2.1 vector (Invitrogen) by TOPO cloning (Invitrogen) to create pSIM3500. The pSIM3500 insert was subcloned as a BamHI-XhoI fragment into these sites of the binary vector pBIN19 (CITATION) to create pSIM3500Bin, which was used to complement the sim phenotype. For RT-PCR analysis of At5g04470 expression in Wassilewskija and sim-2 plants, RNA was harvested from the shoot tissue of 3-week-old Wassilewskija and sim-2 plants using the Plant RNeasy kit (Qiagen) following the manufacturer's instructions. cDNA was synthesized from this RNA using the Omniscript RT kit (Qiagen). The presence of the SIM transcript was measured by PCR amplification using this cDNA as template and the primers simL (5′-AGATCTGCCCATCTTGAATTTCCC-3′) and simR (5′-GCTCGATCTCATCTTTGTTGACGAT-3′) to assess the presence of the SIM transcript and the primers HIS4 L (5′-TCGTGGAAAGGGAGGAAAAGGT-3′) and HIS4 R (5′-CTAGCGTGCTCGGTGTAAGTGAC-3′) to assess the presence of a control gene, HISTONE H4. The uidA (GUS) expression in sim-2 plants was visualized using methods described previously (CITATION). In situ RNA hybridization was essentially performed as described previously (CITATION). DIG-labeled, single-stranded RNA probes were synthesized from PCR-derived template containing an appropriately positioned T7 promoter to produce a sense or antisense probe. A DIG-labeled, single-stranded sense strand of a Ceratopteris richardii (C-fern) gene of unknown function (accession number CV735270) was used as a negative control. For quantitative RT-PCR, RNA was extracted from various organs of wild-type (Col) plants to assess the expression of SIM and its homologs in these tissues using the Plant RNeasy kit (Qiagen) and treated with DNase using a DNase kit (Qiagen) following the manufacturer's instructions. cDNA was synthesized from the RNA harvested from each tissue using an Omniscript RT kit (Qiagen). The absolute transcript levels for SIM and its homologs was assessed using the TaqMan method of quantitative RT-PCR (CITATION). A primer pair and FAM/BHQ1 probe was acquired for each transcript of interest. The PCR amplification product of each primer pair was quantified using a spectrophotometer and diluted to make a five-point standard curve for each gene. Each point of the standard curve and each cDNA reaction were run in triplicate. Each point on the graph in Figure 4 is the average of the nine separate reactions run for each gene in each tissue type (three replicates of each of the three biological replicates per tissue). The full-length SIM, At1g08180, At3g10525, and At5g02420 coding regions were PCR amplified from the BAC clones T32M21, T23G18, F13M14, and T22F11, respectively, in two-stage PCR reaction and inserted into the GATEWAY vector pDONR221 (Invitrogen) by attB recombination following the manufacturer's protocol. Error-free entry clones were confirmed by sequence analysis before recombination into the following relevant destination vectors: overexpression, pK2GW7 (www.vib.be); YFP fusions, pDuEX-An1 (N. Kato, unpublished data); and CFP fusions, pDuEX-Dn2 (N. Kato, unpublished data). The resulting plasmids were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens by transformation and subsequently into plants (ecotype Col) via the floral dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on kanamycin-containing medium and later transferred to soil. Plants were grown as previously described (CITATION). For YFP and CFP gene fusions, vectors were directly introduced to Arabidopsis thaliana leaves via particle bombardment using a PDS-1000/He biolistic particle delivery system (Bio-Rad), incubated overnight in water at room temperature with constant shaking, and visualized on a Leica TCS SP2 spectral confocal microscope. Scanning electron microscopy was performed as previously described (CITATION). DNA contents were measured as previously described (CITATION), with the exceptions that nuclei were observed using a ×20 objective lens, and DNA values were normalized to reported wild-type epidermal cell nuclei values (CITATION). Flow cytometric analysis was performed as previously described (CITATION). FRET efficiencies of protein pairs in Arabidopsis leaf epidermal cells were measured by an acceptor bleaching method (CITATION). In this method, a protein pair is fused to CFP and YFP. YFP is selectively photobleached with a high intensity of the excitation laser, and changes of CFP intensity before and after the YFP photobleaching are monitored. If the protein pair interacts, CFP intensity will increase after YFP photobleaching due to a loss of the FRET. If the protein pair does not interact, CFP intensity will not change. Hence, the FRET efficiency in this method is quantified as:where FRETeff is FRET efficiency, Dpost is the fluorescence intensity of the donor (CFP) after acceptor (YFP) photobleaching, and Dpre is the fluorescence intensity of the donor before acceptor photobleaching. FRET efficiency is considered positive when Dpost > Dpre. Arabidopsis leaves that transiently express fusion proteins were observed with a Leica TCS SP2 spectral confocal microscope with a ×40, 1.25–numerical aperture oil immersion objective lens and a double 458/514-nm dichroic mirror. The argon laser line of 458 nm was used to excite ECFP (photomultiplier tube window: 465 to 515 nm) and the 514-nm line to excite EYFP (photomultiplier tube window: 525 to 570 nm). To increase photon fluxes, a pinhole size of the confocal microscope was increased to 600 mm from the default size of 81.39 mm (Airy 1). The image was zoomed 3.5- to 5-fold, and the nucleus region where both ECFP and EYFP were detected was selectively bleached with the 514-nm line at 100% laser intensity. Three to ten percent of the 514-nm laser intensity was used to monitor changes of EYFP fluorescence intensity during the bleach. The nucleus region was bleached 20 times in ∼2 min, and the ECFP intensity in the bleached region was measured before and after the EYFP bleaching. The FRET Wizard program in the Leica confocal microscope software (LCS 2.61.1537) was used to set experimental conditions and calculate FRET efficiencies. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: SIM (At5g04470), CAB85553; SMR1 (At3g10525), BAC42937; SMR2 (At1g08180), AAF18255; SMR3 (At5g02420), CAB85979; Solanum lycopersicum SMR1, AI780963; S. lycopersicum SMR2, AW931119; S. lycopersicum SIP4, AAG43410; S. tuberosum SMR1, BM110486; Zea mays SMR1, AZM4_61016; Z. mays SMR2, AZM4_26293; Oryza sativa EL2, T03676; O. sativa SMR1, AAK20052; Populus tremula SMR1, BU815024; and Glycine max SMR1, AW704877. All of these accession numbers are from the National Center for Biotechnology Information database, with the exception of Z. mays SMR1 and Z. mays SMR2, which are from The Institute for Genomic Research. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. At5g04470 Expression in sim-2 Plants. Supplemental Figure 2. GUS Expression in sim-2 Plants. Supplemental Figure 3. Expression of the 35S:GFP:SIM Fusion Protein.
