!~ABS~! NUCLEOSOME ASSEMBLY PROTEIN1 (NAP1) is conserved from yeast to human and was proposed to act as a histone chaperone. While budding yeast contains a single NAP1 gene, multicellular organisms, including plants and animals, contain several NAP1 and NAP1-RELATED PROTEIN (NRP) genes. However, the biological role of these genes has been largely unexamined. Here, we show that, in Arabidopsis thaliana, simultaneous knockout of the two NRP genes, NRP1 and NRP2, impaired postembryonic root growth. In the nrp1-1 nrp2-1 double mutant, arrest of cell cycle progression at G2/M and disordered cellular organization occurred in root tips. The mutant seedlings exhibit perturbed expression of ∼100 genes, including some genes involved in root proliferation and patterning. The mutant plants are highly sensitive to genotoxic stress and show increased levels of DNA damage and the release of transcriptional gene silencing. NRP1 and NRP2 are localized in the nucleus and can form homomeric and heteromeric protein complexes. Both proteins specifically bind histones H2A and H2B and associate with chromatin in vivo. We propose that NRP1 and NRP2 act as H2A/H2B chaperones in the maintenance of dynamic chromatin in epigenetic inheritance.
!~RES~! Both NRP1 and NRP2 are located on chromosome 1 in Arabidopsis. NRP1 and NRP2 amino acid sequences show 88% identity and 93% similarity to each other but show <30% identity and <48% similarity with four members of the Arabidopsis NAP1 group proteins, NAP1;1 (At4g26110), NAP1;2 (At2g19480), NAP1;3 (At5g56950), and NAP1;4 (At3g13782). RT-PCR analysis revealed that NRP1 and NRP2 as well as NAP1;1, NAP1;2, and NAP1;3 are ubiquitously expressed in all material examined, including seedlings, roots, stems, and flower buds (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). To investigate the function of NRPs in Arabidopsis, we searched for lines with T-DNA insertions within NRP1 and NRP2. From the SALK collection (CITATION), two independent lines were identified and named nrp1-1 and nrp2-1. PCR analysis confirmed that nrp1-1 contains a T-DNA insertion in the sixth intron of NRP1, and nrp2-1 contains a T-DNA insertion at −162 bp (from the ATG codon) in the promoter of NRP2 (Figure 1A; data not shown). In both mutants, the T-DNA segregated as a single locus. Homozygous (hereafter called mutant) plants were obtained for both T-DNA insertion lines by self-pollination. RT-PCR analysis showed that the transcripts of the corresponding genes were absent in the mutant plants (Figure 1B). These mutant plants with loss of function of either NRP1 or NRP2 did not show any phenotype under our in vitro culture and greenhouse growth conditions. [[FIGURE]] We then crossed nrp1-1 with nrp2-1 and obtained the double mutant, named nrp1-1 nrp2-1. RT-PCR analysis confirmed that both NRP1 and NRP2 transcripts were absent in the double mutant plants (Figure 1B). In contrast with single mutant plants, the double mutant plants showed a short-root phenotype (Figure 1C). A detailed study revealed that the double mutant roots grew like the wild-type roots until 6 d after germination (DAG). However, after 7 DAG, the elongation of the double mutant roots was dramatically reduced compared with the wild-type roots (Figure 1D). The aerial organs (leaves, rosettes, inflorescences, flowers, fruits, and embryos) developed normally in the double mutant plants. To obtain direct evidence that the short-root phenotype is caused by loss of function of NRPs, the NRP1 and NRP2 cDNAs were cloned and fused in frame to the 3′-end of the cDNA encoding the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP), resulting in YFP:NRP1 and YFP:NRP2. The fusion constructs under the control of an estradiol-inducible promoter (CITATION) were introduced into both tobacco BY-2 cells and Arabidopsis plants. The YFP:NRP1 and YFP:NRP2 fusion proteins were localized primarily in the nuclei in both transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells (Figures 2A and 2B ) and Arabidopsis plants (Figures 2C and 2D). A significant amount of YFP:NRP1 and YFP:NRP2 was also observed in the cytoplasm in some cells of transgenic Arabidopsis plants, suggesting that intracellular localization of these proteins is affected by the physiological state of the cells. In the absence of the estradiol inducer, the YFP:NRP1-transgenic double mutant plants maintained the short-root mutant phenotype (Figure 2E). In the presence of estradiol, however, they showed root growth similar to the wild-type plants (Figure 2F). Root length measurements showed that induced expression of YFP:NRP1 rescued root elongation of the mutant plants (Figure 2G). Rescue by YFP:NRP2 expression was also observed, while no rescue was obtained by expressing YFP alone (data not shown). These results show that the YFP fusion proteins are functional and that deficiency in both NRP1 and NRP2 caused the mutant short-root phenotype, arguing for a significant degree of functional redundancy of the two proteins. [[FIGURE]] The nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant roots contained irregularly positioned long hairs, and the elongation zone was greatly reduced (Figure 3B ) compared with that of wild-type roots (Figure 3A). Longitudinal sections revealed that the nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant root tips contain larger cells (Figure 3D) compared with the wild-type root tips (Figure 3C), ruling out the possibility that the short-root phenotype is caused by a reduced cell size in the mutant. Furthermore, dead cells, which accumulate dye, are found in the mutant root tips (Figure 3D). Transverse sections showed that the radial organization of the mature tissues in wild-type roots consists of the epidermis, cortex, endodermis, and pericycle, which surround the vascular cylinder (Figures 3E and 3F) (CITATION). Root hair cells arise from the epidermal cells that contact two underlying cortical cells (the so-called H position), whereas the epidermal cells overlying a single cortical cell develop into nonhair cells (Figures 3E and 3H) (CITATION). In nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant roots, cell division was abnormal and cell organization in the epidermis, cortex, and endodermal layers was irregular (Figure 3G). Irregular cell size and number in these layers were much more pronounced in sections of the differentiation zone (Figure 3I), whereas the regular radial organization was maintained in wild-type roots (Figure 3H). Taken together, these results suggest that NRP1 and NRP2 are necessary for the maintenance of cell proliferation and differentiation in postembryonic root growth. [[FIGURE]] To analyze the role of NRP1 and NRP2 in cell cycle progression in proximal meristem cells and in lateral root initiation, we crossed the nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant with a transgenic plant expressing CYCB1:GUS (CITATION) and obtained CYCB1:GUS-containing wild-type and nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant lines. The CYCB1:GUS gene contains the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter fused to the mitotic destruction sequence (D-box) and the promoter of the cyclin CYCB1;1. This fusion gene is expressed upon entry into G2 (via the CYCB1:1 promoter), and its protein product is degraded upon exit from metaphase (via D-box) (CITATION), and subsequently the GUS activity marks cells in G2 and early M phase (CITATION). As shown in Figure 4 , GUS-positive cells were detected in the root tips and at the initiation sites of lateral root formation. At early stages after germination, the wild-type (Figure 4A) and the mutant (Figure 4B) siblings showed similar GUS activity. However, at later stages, a significantly higher number of GUS-positive cells were observed in the mutant root tips (Figure 4D) compared with the wild-type root tips (Figure 4C), suggesting that G2/M arrest occurred in the mutant. Examination of 6- to 12-d-old seedlings revealed that lateral roots initiated similarly in the wild type (Figure 4E) and the mutant (Figure 4F). The number of lateral roots and primordia per seedling was similar in the mutant and the wild type, 19 ± 6 (15) compared with 20 ± 5 (15). However, the distance separating two lateral roots/primordia was significantly shorter in the mutant than in the wild-type, 1.85 ± 0.34 (15) compared with 2.58 ± 0.48 (15) mm. Thus, it appears that NRP1 and NRP2 could play a repressive role in spatial lateral root initiation. [[FIGURE]] To uncover molecular events in the mutant plants, we first analyzed gene expression profiles in 6-d-old seedlings before any mutant phenotype was visible. We also reasoned that secondary transcriptional changes caused by NRP1- and NRP2-dependent differentially expressed genes would be minimal at this early developmental stage. The complete Arabidopsis transcriptome microarray (CATMA) containing 24,576 genes of the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION) was used for hybridization. Based on a stringent statistical test (see Methods), 10 genes in nrp1-1, 483 genes in nrp2-1, and 102 genes in nrp1-1 nrp2-1 were found to be differentially expressed (see Supplemental Tables 1 to 3 online). These differentially expressed genes belong to both downregulated and upregulated categories, and some were common to the different mutants (Figure 5 ). A considerably higher number of differentially expressed genes were found in the nrp2-1 mutant, suggesting that NRP2 has a broader activity. The fact that many differentially expressed genes in the single mutants were unchanged in the double mutant suggests complexity of molecular interactions between NRP1 and NRP2, which is beyond simple redundancy as viewed by plant phenotype. Since only the nrp1-1 nrp2-1 double mutant has a morphological phenotype, we focused on genes that are differentially expressed specifically in this mutant but not in the single mutants. Among this group of genes, it is interesting to note that while several genes encoding cell wall or extracellular matrix proteins are downregulated, the expression of several genes encoding transcription factors, including a zinc-finger protein, a bZIP protein, and three ethylene-responsive proteins, are upregulated to more than twofold in the mutant (Table 1 ). The cell wall or extracellular matrix is important not only for structure but also for providing positional information that determines root cell fate (CITATION). The bZIP transcription factor PosF21 is likely to play an important role in vascular development (CITATION). The ethylene-responsive transcription factors are involved in phytohormone ethylene signaling (CITATION), and ethylene plays a crucial role in root growth and root hair development (CITATION). It is reasonable to speculate that the difference in expression of these genes contributes to the nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant phenotype. [[FIGURE]] Genes Differentially Expressed in the Double Mutant nrp1-1 nrp2-1 but Not in the Single Mutant nrp1-1 or nrp2-1 We also investigated the expression level of several patterning genes in the wild-type and nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant roots by semiquantitative RT-PCR. In Arabidopsis roots, GL2, WEREWOLF (WER), TRANSPARENT-TESTA-GLABRA1, and CAPRICE (CPC) are involved in epidermal patterning, PLT2 and PLT1 are involved in proximo-distal patterning, and SCARECROW and SHORT-ROOT are involved in radial patterning (for a review, see CITATION). No significant differences were observed between the wild-type and the mutant roots in 6-d-old seedlings (Figure 6A ). This is consistent with previous microarray data where these genes were not among the differentially expressed genes. In 12-d-old seedlings, however, the level of GL2 was significantly lower, whereas that of PLT2 was higher in the mutant roots compared with the wild-type roots, while the other patterning genes showed unchanged expression levels (Figure 6B). These RT-PCR results were reproducible in two independent experiments. GL2 represses root hair formation (CITATION), so a decrease in expression level correlates with the increased proliferation of root hairs in the nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant. Since the ectopic overexpression of PLT2 enhances root stem cell formation (CITATION), the increased level of PLT2 expression is consistent with the capacity of root primordia formation in the nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant. [[FIGURE]] Taken together, our data indicate that NRP1 and NRP2 are required for the maintenance of correct expression of several genes involved in root proliferation and patterning. The G2/M arrest and the perturbed expression of some stress-responsive genes prompted us to investigate DNA damage response in the nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant. We first examined sensitivity of plant growth to the genotoxic agent bleomycin, an inducer of DNA strand breaks (CITATION). The nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant plants were significantly more sensitive to bleomycin treatment than the wild-type plants (Figure 7A ). The genes encoding poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 2 (PARP2) and RAD51, which is involved in meiotic recombination and in homologous recombination repair (CITATION), are transcriptionally induced by increased levels of DNA breaks (CITATION). Consistent with their hypersensitivity to bleomycin, the nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant plants showed higher levels of PARP2 expression than the wild-type plants (Figure 7B). On the other hand, expression levels of RAD51 were quite similar in the mutant and wild-type plants. [[FIGURE]] We compared the level of DNA damage in the nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant with the wild-type plants using the comet assay (CITATION). When plants were grown in the absence or at low concentration of bleomycin, the mutant showed similar levels of DNA damage compared with the wild type. When plants were grown at higher concentration of bleomycin, however, the mutant showed a significant increase in DNA damage compared with the wild type (Figures 7C and 7D). To evaluate repair capability, we compared DNA damage levels within a 60-min recovery period after a 1-h bleomycin treatment using seedlings germinated on filter papers (see Methods). In the absence of bleomycin treatment, the nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant seedlings showed an increase in DNA damage compared with wild-type seedlings (Figure 7E), indicating that the nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant is hypersensitive to growth stress. Bleomycin treatment elevated levels of DNA damage in both the mutant and the wild-type seedlings. Interestingly, DNA damage was repaired in the mutant as rapidly as in the wild type (Figure 7E), indicating that the mutant is proficient in repair. This is consistent with the observation that the repair gene, RAD51, was well expressed in the mutant (Figure 7B). It is likely that the mutant genome is more sensitive to DNA damage and that additional genotoxic treatment leads to an accumulation of DNA damage that simply exceeds the capacity of the repair pathways, resulting in plant growth inhibition. Release of transcription gene silencing (TGS) at TSI and/or transposons was previously reported in several Arabidopsis mutants defective in DNA/chromatin replication and assembly, including bru1, fas1, fas2, and rnr2 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In the nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant, we also found that the silencing of the pericentromeric repeat TSI and the transposon Ta3 was released (Figure 7B). However, when plants were grown in the absence of bleomycin, release of the expression of TSI and Ta3 was not observed (data not shown). By contrast, the bru1, fas1, fas2, and rnr2 mutants released TGS under standard growth conditions. Thus, the defects in maintaining the silencing of heterochromatic chromatin are less severe in the nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant. The histone binding activity of NRP1 and NRP2 proteins was investigated using pull-down assays. We found that NRP1 and NRP2 form homo- and heteromeric protein complexes (Figure 8A , left panel) and that NRP1 (Figure 8A, right panel) and NRP2 (data not shown) bind histones H2A and H2B but very little histone H3. This is in agreement with the proposal that NRP1 and NRP2 are histone H2A/H2B chaperones. [[FIGURE]] Since YFP:NRP1 and YFP:NRP2 proteins are primarily localized in the nucleus (Figures 2A to 2D), we tested whether they could bind to chromatin in vivo. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing YFP:NRP1 or H2A:YFP were first selected in ChIP analyses. We assumed that the histone H2A:YFP fusion protein is incorporated in nucleosomes and is distributed over the genome. The immunoprecipitates of the H2A:YFP-derived fraction (H) and the YFP:NRP1-derived fraction (N) were analyzed by PCR using gene-specific primers (Figure 8B). Actin was positively detected in both H and N fractions and subsequently used to normalize quantity of the two fractions. In the normalized H and N fractions, the levels of PosF21, PLT2, and GL2 were similar, indicating that YFP:NRP1 binds well to these genes. This is consistent with a previous observation showing that the expression of these genes was affected in the nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant (Table 1, Figure 6). The expression of FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC), a gene that is regulated by chromatin environment (CITATION; CITATION), was unchanged in the nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant (data not shown). Interestingly, binding of YFP:NRP1 with the FLC region was negligible (Figure 8B). Since YFP:NRP1 also binds to genes whose expression was unchanged in the nrp1-1 or nrp1-1 nrp2-1 mutant (data not shown), binding is not restricted to NRP1-regulated genes. In pericentromeric heterochromatin, YFP:NRP1 bound to TSI and to a lesser extent, to Ta3 and the centromeric 180-bp repeats (Figure 8B). These ChIP results were obtained reproducibly in three independent experiments. In addition, YFP:NRP2 gave similar results as did YFP:NRP1, and H2B:YFP gave similar results as did H2A:YFP, whereas the negative control (YFP or in the absence of antibody) did not give signals (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Our data thus clearly establish that YFP:NRP1 and YFP:NRP2 bind chromatin and are not uniformly distributed over the genome.
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis thaliana alleles were derived from the Columbia ecotype. nrp1-1 and nrp2-1 alleles correspond respectively to Salk_117793 and Salk_030348, T-DNA insertion strains from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (http://arabidopsis.org). The double mutant nrp1-1 nrp2-1 was obtained in our laboratory by crossing the two single mutants. In vitro plant culture was performed on agar-solidified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium M0255 (Duschefa) supplemented with 0.9% sucrose at 21°C under 16 h light/8 h dark. The NRP1 and NRP2 cDNAs were obtained by RT-PCR using primer pairs N5P1/N5P2 and N6P1/N6P2 (see Supplemental Table 4 online), respectively. The resulting PCR products were cloned in pEYFP-EYFP vector (CITATION) and sequenced to confirm the absence of sequence errors and the in-frame fusion with YFP. The YFP:NRP1 and YFP:NRP2 fragments were subcloned in pER8 vector (CITATION) using SalII-XhoI and SpeI restriction sites, resulting in pYFP:NRP1 and pYFP:NRP2, respectively. The pYFP:NRP1 and pYFP:NRP2 plasmids were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens, and the resulting strains were used to transform Arabidopsis and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells as described previously (CITATION). Induction of transgene expression from pER8-based vectors was performed according to CITATION, using 4 μM estradiol. Root tips were incubated in 10 μg/mL propidium iodide for 5 to 10 min and then imaged using a Zeiss model LSM510 confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss). Tobacco BY-2 cells were imaged as previously described (CITATION). For histological analysis, roots were fixed in 25 mM phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, containing 1% glutaraldehyde, embedded in LR White resin (EMS), and transversely sectioned at 1 μm. Total RNA was prepared using the TRIzol kit according to the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen). Semiquantitative RT-PCR was performed according to standard procedures using Improm-II reverse transcriptase (Promega). Gene-specific primers used in PCR analysis are given in Supplemental Table 4 online. Histochemical GUS activity assay was performed as described (CITATION). Essential results were reproducibly obtained from >10 plants for each condition. Wild-type and mutants seeds were germinated under the same growth conditions. Three independently derived sets of 6-d-old seedlings, 50 to 60 plants per set, were pooled for each genotype. Total RNA was isolated from each sample, and microarray analysis was performed as described (CITATION). Briefly, cRNA was synthesized and fluorescent cDNAs were synthesized from cRNA using cy3-dUTP and cy5-dUTP, respectively, for each sample. The cy3-labeled cDNA derived from mutant seedlings was combined with cy5-labeled cDNA derived from wild-type seedlings and used for hybridization of the CATMA slides (CITATION). Repeated hybridization was performed using combined cy5-labeled mutant cDNA with cy3-labeled wild-type cDNA. Hybridization, scanning of microarrays, and statistical analysis were performed as decribed (CITATION). To further enrich for biologically relevant changes linked with mutant genotype, the whole procedure was repeated in a second experiment with new sets of seeds. Genes were considered as significantly perturbed in the mutant if the change was at least 1.5-fold and the P values inferior to 0.05 from the two independent experiments. Genotoxic effect of bleomycin was evaluated by growth of plants in the presence of the drug in the agar-solidified MS medium. For DNA repair test, seeds were germinated on filter paper soaked in liquid MS medium. Twelve days after germination, seedlings together with filter paper were transferred to MS medium containing bleomycin and incubated for 1 h. Then, they were rinsed three times in MS medium and placed on bleomycin-free MS medium for recovery. Approximately 150 seedlings were harvested at each assay point from three replicates of treatment and used in RT-PCR and comet assays. Comet assay was performed using the N/N protocol as described (CITATION). Images of comets were captured under a Nikon 800 epifluorescence microscope equipped with a DXM1200 digital camera. The comet analysis was performed using CometScore software (http://autocomet.com). The coding regions of NRP1 and NRP2 were amplified using primer pairs N5P3/N5P4 and N6P3/N6P4 (see Supplemental Table 4 online), respectively. The resulting PCR products were cloned into pET-14b vector (Novagen) using the NdeI and BamHI restriction sites. Recombinant protein production and pull-down assays were performed as described (CITATION, CITATION). The anti-GFP rabbit polyclonal antibody (Molecular Probes) was used at a dilution of 1:5000 for protein gel blotting. ChIP analysis was performed as described (CITATION). Gene-specific primers used in ChIP analysis are given in Supplemental Table 4 online. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers NM_001036205 (NRP1) and NM_101738 (NRP2). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. RT-PCR Analysis of Expression of the Arabidopsis NAP1 and NRP Group Genes. Supplemental Figure 2. ChIP Analysis of Chromatin Association of Proteins at Different Genes. Supplemental Table 1. Genes Differentially Expressed in nrp1-1. Supplemental Table 2. Genes Differentially Expressed in nrp1-2. Supplemental Table 3. Genes Differentially Expressed in nrp1-1 nrp2-1. Supplemental Table 4. List of Primers.
