!~ABS~! The β recombinase is a member of the prokaryotic site-specific serine recombinases (invertase/resolvase family), which in the presence of a DNA bending cofactor can catalyse DNA deletions between two directly oriented 90-bp six recombination sites. We have examined here whether the β recombinase can be expressed in plants and whether it displays in planta its specific catalytic activity excising DNA sequences that are flanked by six sites. In plant protoplasts, the enzyme could be expressed as a GFP-β recombinase fusion which can localise to the cell nucleus. β recombinase stably expressed in tobacco plants can catalyse deletion of a spacer region that is flanked by directly oriented six sites and has been placed between promoter and a GUS reporter gene (preventing GUS expression). In transient transformation experiments, β recombinase-mediated elimination of the spacer results in transcriptional induction of the GUS gene. Similarly, β recombinase in stably double-transformed Arabidopsis plants deletes specifically the spacer region of a reporter construct that has been incorporated into the genome. In the segregating T1 generation, plants were identified that contain exclusively the recombined reporter construct. In summary, our results demonstrate that functional β recombinase can be expressed in plants and that the enzyme is suitable to precisely eliminate undesired sequences from plant genomes. Therefore, the β/six recombination system (and presumably related recombinases) may become an attractive tool for plant genetic engineering.
!~RES~! To test whether the prokaryotic β recombinase can be expressed in plants, and to determine its subcellular localisation, we have constructed a fusion of β recombinase and the green fluorescent protein (GFP) that is placed under control of the CaMV 35S promoter in the plasmid pGFP-β. The plasmid was transiently transformed into tobacco BY-2 suspension cell protoplasts, and transformed protoplasts were analysed by confocal laser scanning microscopy. We have used constructs that served as controls in this experiment: GFP that is found in both cytoplasm and nucleus (Fig. 2A), and GFP-NLS-CHS-NESmutated and At2 g34450-GFP [CITATION] that localise to the nucleus (Fig. 2B–D). Co-localisation of the nucleus and green fluorescence is demonstrated by overlaying the nuclear GFP fluorescence of the HMGB-type At2 g34450 fusion protein and the transmission image of the same protoplast (Fig. 2D). The GFP-β recombinase fusion protein localises to both cytoplasm and nucleus. The fraction of the fusion protein localising to the nucleus varies somewhat in different protoplasts (two representative images are shown in Fig. 2E,F). [[FIGURE]]  To stably introduce the β recombinase gene under control of the CaMV 35S promoter into the tobacco genome, plasmid pROKF19-β was used for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of tobacco seedlings. Three independent lines (β1–β3) that displayed resistance against kanamycin were examined by PCR for presence of the transgene. PCR reactions using genomic DNA as template and a primer specific for the 35S promoter in combination with a primer annealing in the gene encoding β recombinase (Fig. 3A) yielded a DNA fragment of the expected size of 708 bp in the three transgenic lines, but not in wt tobacco (Fig. 3B). Using rt-PCR the expression of the β recombinase transcript was examined. cDNAs of the three transgenic lines and wt tobacco were used as template in PCR with primers annealing within the β recombinase coding sequence (Fig. 3A). PCR with the three transgenic lines resulted in the expected 475-bp fragment, whereas no amplification was observed using cDNA of wt tobacco (Fig. 3C). The same tobacco lines were further analysed by immunoblotting using an antibody against the β recombinase. The antibody reacted with purified recombinant β recombinase and with a protein band of the same size (∼24 kDa, corresponding to the calculated mass of the denatured β recombinase monomer) that was detected in protein extracts of the three transgenic tobacco lines, but not of wt tobacco (Fig. 3D). In summary, these results demonstrate that the β recombinase can be expressed in tobacco and that the protein can localise to the cell nucleus. [[FIGURE]]  Initial tests for the activity of β recombinase in plants were performed by introducing transiently a recombination substrate plasmid (and control plasmids) into the tobacco plants expressing β recombinase and for comparison into wt plants. We have tested for β recombinase activity by using a substrate plasmid in which the 35S promoter activity driving the expression of the uidA reporter gene (resulting in the expression of GUS) is blocked by insertion of a 1719-bp spacer region (flanked by directly oriented six sites) in between promoter and reporter gene (pTest1, Fig. 4A). Excision of the spacer region (and one six site) by β recombinase-mediated recombination between the two six sites should bring the GUS coding region under transcriptional control of the promoter, similarly as seen with other recombination systems [CITATION,CITATION,CITATION]. As positive control for GUS activity the plasmid pFF19G [CITATION] was introduced into wt tobacco leaf cells by biolistic transformation. Cells expressing GUS appear as blue spots after histochemical staining for GUS activity (Fig. 4B, top panels). Introducing plasmid psixGUS1 (Fig. 4A) into wt tobacco cells demonstrates that the presence of a single six site between promoter and GUS coding region does not block GUS expression. This is important to check, since the psixGUS1 resembles the situation after recombination, which leaves one six site as a “footprint” (cf. Fig. 1C). Transforming plasmid pTest1 into wt tobacco did not result in GUS expression (Fig. 4B), indicating that the presence of the 1719-bp spacer region (and two six sites) between promoter and GUS coding sequence abolishes GUS expression. However, when pTest1 is transformed into the three tobacco lines expressing β recombinase (β1–β3), the GUS gene is expressed, indicating that β recombinase-mediated recombination between the two directly oriented six sites flanking the spacer region resulted in deletion of the spacer (Fig. 4B, bottom panels). This experiment demonstrated that β recombinase can catalyse site-specific recombination of a substrate that has been transiently introduced into tobacco cells. [[FIGURE]]  In the next step we have examined, whether β recombinase can catalyse site-specific recombination of a target that has been incorporated into the plant genome. Towards that goal the β recombinase expression construct, which has been used in tobacco (pROKF19-β) was transformed into Arabidopsis by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transgenic plants expressing β recombinase were identified as described above by rt-PCR (data not shown). Constructs that could serve as β recombinase substrate (pTest2) and as positive control for GUS expression (psixGUS2) were introduced into wt and β recombinase-expressing Arabidopsis plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (Fig. 5A). Three of the BASTA-resistant T0 transformants obtained by retransformation of β recombinase expressing plants with the plasmid pTest2 (as well as the single-transformants) were tested by PCR for the presence of the gene encoding β recombinase and for the recombination substrate (Fig. 5B). Moreover, by using primer pairs P6+P7 and P7+P8 (Fig. 5A) it could be determined, whether site-specific β recombination has occurred. In the three analysed double-transformed plants, in addition to the β coding sequence, both recombined and non-recombined pTest2 substrate could be detected. As expected, in the control plants harbouring either the β recombinase expression construct or the substrate construct no recombination could be detected by PCR (Fig. 5B). To test for expression of the GUS gene (driven by the 35S promoter) and to reveal its spatial distribution, three double-transformed T0 seedlings along with single-transformed seedlings were histochemically stained for GUS activity (Fig. 5C-K, showing examples of entire seedlings and of individual cotyledons), while the remaining double-transformed T0 seedlings were further propagated. Plants transformed with the plasmid psixGUS2 that served as positive control for the GUS assay show a prominent staining virtually in the entire seedlings (Fig. 5E, H). Consistent with the PCR analysis (i) no GUS staining was observed with the single transformants (Fig. 5C, D, G, F); and (ii) plants harbouring both the β recombinase expression construct and the substrate (pTest2) display GUS staining (Fig. 5I-K). To examine the inheritance and segregation of the transgenes, 30 T1 progeny each of the three PCR-analysed T0 double-transformants heterozygous for the β transgene were further analysed. Cotyledons of 14-day old seedlings were stained for GUS activity, indicating that site-specific recombination had occurred in 56 seedlings resulting in expression of the GUS gene. We then tested the 90 seedlings for the presence of the β recombinase expression cassette and of the pTest2 substrate by PCR. Specific primer pairs and limiting the extension times (cf. Fig. 5A) allowed discriminating the recombined (pTest2r) and the non-recombined substrate (pTest2). We could identify wt plants and all possible combinations of presence/absence of the β recombinase construct and the recombined/non-recombined versions of the substrate, except the combination of the β recombinase construct and exclusively non-recombined substrate (Fig. 6A). The segregation of β recombinase construct, recombined (pTest2r) and non-recombined substrate (pTest2) in the 90 analysed seedlings has been summarised in Table 1. The observed segregation pattern of the transgenes is consistent with the values expected for a single locus of each construct (i.e. β and pTest2/pTest2r). This is seen with the three individual lines (data not shown) as well as for the combined segregation analysis (Table 2). The result of the PCR analysis is consistent with the histochemical GUS staining of the T1 seedlings. All plants that contain exclusively recombined pTest2 (Figure 6D,F) or both recombined and non-recombined pTest2 (Fig. 6H, I) display intense GUS staining, whereas plants containing exclusively non-recombined pTest2 (Fig. 6E) or no pTest2 at all (Fig. 6B, C) do not express the GUS gene. Due to the genetic segregation, five plants (according to PCR analysis) contain exclusively the completely recombined pTest2, but not the β recombinase construct. These plants contain as β recombination product only one 90-bp six site between the 35S promoter and the GUS gene, whereas the spacer region and the second six site have been deleted. This was confirmed by sequencing of the DNA fragment amplified by PCR with primers P6 and P7 from the genomic DNA of these plants (cf. Fig. 5A), revealing that the β recombinase indeed has precisely eliminated the spacer and one six site (data not shown). Genomic DNA isolated from these plants was also examined by Southern blot analysis using a region of the GUS reporter gene as hybridisation probe (Fig. 6J). Digests of the genomic DNA with EcoRI and EcoRI/HindIII resulted in three hybridising bands (which are not detected in Col-0 control plants), suggesting that there are up to three insertions of the recombination substrate. However, the segregation analysis (see above) and the relative intensity of the two large hybridising bands relative to the band of ∼3 kb comparing the single and double digest indicate that the two larger bands might be rather the result of an incomplete restriction enzyme digestion. In the EcoRI/HindIII digest, the band of ∼3 kb is consistent with the presence of the recombined pTest2 substrate construct (cf. Fig. 5A). In summary, the experiments with the transgenic Arabidopsis plants demonstrated that the β recombinase can catalyse deletion of DNA regions that have been stably introduced into the plant genome, provided the target DNA fragment is flanked by directly oriented six recombination sites. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]]
!~MM~! The sequence encoding β recombinase was amplified by PCR using primers P1: 5′-AAGGATCCATGGGGCTAAAATTGGTTATGCAT and P2: 5′-AATTAAGCTTAACTATCCCTCTTTCCCTT, DeepVent DNA polymerase (NEB Biolabs) and the plasmid pBT434 (containing the β gene) as template introducing terminal BamHI and HindIII recognition sites. Using these sites the β coding sequence was first cloned into BamHI/HindIII-digested plasmid pBC-SK (Stratagene) giving pBC-β. Then the β coding sequence (obtained by digesting pBC-β with BamHI/SalI) was cloned into the BamHI/SalI-digested binary plant transformation vector pROKF19 (conferring kanamycin resistance in plants due to the presence of the NPTII gene expression cassette) [CITATION] giving pROKF19-β, where β is under control of the CaMV 35S promoter. For construction of a GFP-β recombinase fusion, the sequence encoding β recombinase was amplified as described above using primers 5′-AATTCCCGGGAATGGCTAAAATTGGTTATGCACGTGTCA and 5′-AATTGGATCCTTAACTATCCCTCTTTCCCTTGTTTTTTCTTTG. Using the introduced terminal SmaI/BamHI recognition sites, the PCR fragment was cleaved and introduced into SmaI/BamHI-digested p5′-GFP as previously described [CITATION] giving pGFP-β. To construct a recombination reporter plasmid for transient transformation assays, the 1634-bp fragment obtained by HpaI/EcoRV-digestion from the spacer region between the two six sites of the plasmid pCB8 [CITATION], and inserted between the six sites of the EcoRV-digested plasmid pBCsix85 [CITATION] giving pBCsix1719. A fragment comprising two six sites spaced by 1719 bp was obtained by treating pBCsix1719 consecutively with KpnI, Klenow enzyme (to create blunt ends) and SacI. This fragment was cloned in between the 35S promoter and the coding sequence of the uidA gene (encoding β glucuronidase, GUS) of the plasmid pFF19G [CITATION], treated consecutively with SalI, Klenow enzyme and SacI giving pTest1. From this plasmid one six site and the spacer region were deleted by digesting pTest1 with SacI/SalI, creating blunt ends using the Klenow enzyme, and religation of the plasmid giving psixGUS1. To construct a recombination reporter plasmid suitable for Agrobacterium-mediated plant transformation, the 1447-bp BspHI fragment (containing the chloramphenicol resistance cassette) of pBC-SK (after creating blunt ends using the Klenow enzyme), was inserted into pBCsix85 that has been treated consecutively with SalI, Klenow enzyme, and SmaI, giving pBCsix1491. This plasmid was treated consecutively with KpnI, Klenow enzyme and SacI, and inserted into pFF19G cleaved partially with PstI, treated with Klenow enzyme and SacI, giving pFF19six1491. This plasmid was digested with HindIII/EcoRI and the entire cassette containing 35S promoter, the two six sites spaced by 1491 bp, the GUS coding sequence and the 35S terminator was inserted into HindIII/EcoRI-digested binary plant transformation vector pCAMBIA3300 (www.cambia.org.au, conferring BASTA resistance in plants due to the presence of a BAR gene expression cassette), giving pTest2. As control a plasmid was constructed that contains a six site between promoter and GUS reporter gene. A single six site was obtained by digesting pBCsix85 with SacI/BamHI, and cloning this fragment into SacI/BamHI-digested pFF19G giving pFF19G-six. From this plasmid the region comprising the 35S promoter, six site, GUS coding sequence and 35S terminator was obtained by digestion with HindIII/EcoRI and introduced into pCAMBIA3300 giving psixGUS2. Transient transformation of tobacco BY-2 cell protoplasts and the analysis by confocal laser scanning microscopy were performed as previously described [CITATION]. The plasmid pROKF19-β was introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 by electroporation. 14-day old tobacco seedlings (Nicotiana tabacum cv. Petit Havana) were inoculated with the transformed Agrobacteria as previously described [CITATION], to introduce the β expression cassette into the tobacco genome. After regeneration and selection for kanamycin-resistance on solid MS medium [CITATION], plants were propagated on soil at 28°C and 12 h light/12 h darkness. For transient recombination assays, biolistic transformation was used to introduce pTest1 (and control plasmids) into cells of tobacco plants expressing β recombinase (and control plants). We have used a particle inflow gun that was assembled by the workshop of the Institutes of Biology II/III, Freiburg University, Germany, following previously reported instructions [CITATION]. Leaves of 4-week old tobacco plants were bombarded as previously described [CITATION] using 1.5–3 μm gold particles (Aldrich) coated with the transformation plasmids. After bombardment, the leaves were incubated for ∼36 h at 25°C and assayed for β glucoronidase activity by histochemical staining using the substrate X-Gluc [CITATION]. After a 15 h-incubation at 37°C, cells expressing the GUS gene appear as blue spots. Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia-0 plants (propagated at 20°C and 16 h light/8 h darkness) were transformed with pROKF19-β, psixGUS2 and pTest2 by the floral dip method [CITATION], using A. tumefasciens strain GV3101 in infiltration solution (10 mM MgCl2, 5% sucrose and 0.02% Silwet L-77). pROK19-β transformants were selected on solid MS medium (containing 50 μg ml-1 kanamycin), while soil-grown psixGUS2 and pTest2 transformants were selected by spraying the seedlings with a BASTA solution (240 μg ml-1 gluphosinate, 0.005% Silwet L-77) when they had 4-6 rosette leaves. For PCR analysis, genomic DNA from tobacco leaves and Arabidopsis seedlings was isolated [CITATION]. Reverse-transcribed PCR was performed as previously described [CITATION], using random hexameric primers for reverse transcription. The following PCR primers were used for analysing (i) the β recombinase expression construct: P1; P2; P3: 5′-ATCTCCACTGACGTAAGGGATGA; P4: 5′-TCGGTCGAACGTCCACAATTT; P5: 5′-TTGATCGACTGTCACGTTGT; (ii) recombined pTest2: P6: 5′-GTAAAACGACGGCCAGT; P7: 5′-ACTGCCTCTTCGCTGTAC; and (iii) non-recombined pTest2: P7; P8: 5′- CTGGAGTGAATACCACGACGA. Immunoblot analysis of crude protein extracts of tobacco leaves was performed as previously described [CITATION], using an antiserum against purified β recombinase [CITATION] and antibody binding was detected using the ECL chemiluminescence system (Amersham). Total genomic DNA was isolated from Arabidopsis seedlings [CITATION] and digested with restriction enzymes. 30 μg of the digested DNA was separated by electrophoresis in 0.8% agarose gels, transferred onto a Hybond N+ membrane (Amersham Biosciences) by capillary blotting. Hybridisation with a 950-bp probe originating from the GUS gene coding region (radio-labelled by random priming) was performed in a hybridisation buffer (phosphate buffer, 7% SDS, 10 mM EDTA) at 65°C. After washing the membrane hybridisation signals were detected using a Typhoon 8600 phosphorimager (Molecular Dynamics).
