!~ABS~! The processing of N-linked oligosaccharides in the secretory pathway requires the sequential action of a number of glycosidases and glycosyltransferases. We studied the spatial distribution of several type II membrane-bound enzymes from Glycine max, Arabidopsis thaliana, and Nicotiana tabacum. Glucosidase I (GCSI) localized to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), α-1,2 mannosidase I (ManI) and N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase I (GNTI) both targeted to the ER and Golgi, and β-1,2 xylosyltransferase localized exclusively to Golgi stacks, corresponding to the order of expected function. ManI deletion constructs revealed that the ManI transmembrane domain (TMD) contains all necessary targeting information. Likewise, GNTI truncations showed that this could apply to other type II enzymes. A green fluorescent protein chimera with ManI TMD, lengthened by duplicating its last seven amino acids, localized exclusively to the Golgi and colocalized with a trans-Golgi marker (ST52-mRFP), suggesting roles for protein–lipid interactions in ManI targeting. However, the TMD lengths of other plant glycosylation enzymes indicate that this mechanism cannot apply to all enzymes in the pathway. In fact, removal of the first 11 amino acids of the GCSI cytoplasmic tail resulted in relocalization from the ER to the Golgi, suggesting a targeting mechanism relying on protein–protein interactions. We conclude that the localization of N-glycan processing enzymes corresponds to an assembly line in the early secretory pathway and depends on both TMD length and signals in the cytoplasmic tail.
!~RES~! To better understand the mechanisms allowing the selective retention of N-glycan processing enzymes in the early Golgi compartments, the localization of a series of GFP fusions to four different members of the N-glycan processing machinery (GCSI, ManI, GNTI, and XYLT; Figure 1 ) was studied after stable expression in tobacco BY-2 cells. Fluorescence of a full-length ManI-GFP fusion construct was detected by confocal laser scanning microscopy in small bodies (Figures 2A and 2B) that moved through the cytoplasm as it has been described previously for this construct in another independent cell line (CITATION). In addition, a substantial fluorescence signal was observed in a reticulate network throughout the cytoplasm that was indistinguishable from the ER network stained by a GFP-HDEL construct (Figures 2D and 2E). To check if ER labeling was due to overexpression of the recombinant proteins, BY-2 cells expressing ManI-GFP were incubated with the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide. After 2 h of treatment, the targeting pattern remained unchanged, showing that the steady state location of ManI-GFP is the Golgi and the ER (cf. Figures 2B and 2C). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To confirm that fluorescent spots were Golgi stacks, the cells were treated for 2 h with 50 μg·mL−1 of brefeldin A (BFA). This BFA treatment caused the green spots to disappear, and the cortical and transvascular ER became more fluorescent (cf. Figure 2F to Figures 2B and 2E) as has been described previously for several Golgi-localized GFP fusion proteins expressed in tobacco leaf epidermis and BY-2 suspension-cultured cells (CITATION; CITATION). To compare the location of ManI to one of the other plant N-glycosylation enzymes in the secretory pathway, we analyzed under the same conditions the subcellular localization of N-glycan maturation enzymes acting before, just after ManI, or much later. The first enzyme we studied was Arabidopsis GCSI. This type II membrane protein trims the first sugar residue from the precursor oligosaccharide in the ER immediately after its attachment to the nascent glycoprotein (see a schematic representation of plant N-glycan maturation in Figure 11 and additional data in Supplemental Table 1 online). The full-length protein (CITATION) was fused to GFP and, consistent with what was shown for human GCSI in COS cells (CITATION), the fusion protein was exclusively located in the ER in BY-2 cells (Figure 2G). The second candidate investigated was GNTI from N. tabacum (CITATION). This glycosyltransferase adds a first N-acetylglucosamine residue on N-glycans soon after ManI has removed an α-1,2-mannose (Figure 11). The full-length protein was fused to GFP, and GNTI-GFP was expressed in tobacco BY-2 suspension-cultured cells. Interestingly, the steady state location of the fusion was the Golgi and the ER (Figure 2H) in a pattern very similar to ManI-GFP (cf. Figures 2B and 2H). These data strongly suggest that the N-glycan processing enzymes considered to act very early in the Golgi apparatus, such as ManI and GNTI, are targeted to the Golgi but also to the ER in tobacco BY-2 suspension-cultured cells. Finally, the third candidate, XYLT from Arabidopsis, was located in the Golgi only (Figure 2I), confirming the results from CITATION, who demonstrated that the N-terminal end of this enzyme targets GFP to a medial subset of cisternae of Golgi stacks. To ascertain whether protein expression levels might alter localization of our fusion proteins, we have confirmed these results in different independent cell lines expressing the fusion proteins, at least 3 months after transformation. Imaging of cells was always performed on the third or fourth day after subculturing, which corresponds to the optimal growth phase under our culture conditions. Nevertheless, to further validate that ER labeling was not due to overexpression of the fusion, we have controlled for each fusion that the labeling pattern was unchanged after a 2-h treatment with cycloheximide. Additional data illustrating that translation is indeed blocked under these conditions are available online. Protein gel blots revealed with anti-GFP antibodies and the enhanced chemiluminescence staining have shown a very low signal over background for the recombinant proteins, indicating a low level of expression for all fusion proteins in this study (data not shown). Further evidence for a level of fusion protein expression compatible with a functional nonsaturated secretory pathway was obtained from coexpression experiments when ManI-GFP is located both in the ER and Golgi in the same cell, while a Golgi marker (ST52-mRFP) is found exclusively in the Golgi (Figures 4A to 4C). All together, results obtained under these carefully controlled conditions clearly show that N-glycosylation enzymes are targeted specifically to the ER (GCSI) or to the Golgi (XYLT) exclusively, but some enzymes have a dual steady state location in both organelles, as is the case for ManI, GNTI (this study), and other membrane proteins, such as prolyl 4-hydroxylase (CITATION) and ERD2 (CITATION; CITATION). In a next step, we decided to investigate which signals were responsible for the targeting of the population of glycosylation enzymes showing a dual steady state distribution Golgi/ER. Recent studies regarding the specific Golgi retention of the three plant glycosylation enzymes GNTI, XYLT, and Arabidopsis ManII (Figure 11) indicate that their specific targeting is mediated by signals contained in their N-terminal part, including the CT, the TMD, and the stem for GNTI (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Here, we have investigated the role of the luminal domain in the targeting of ManI and GNTI. To determine if the portion of ManI located in the Golgi lumen plays a role in the targeting of this glycosidase to the Golgi and the ER membranes, the first 99 amino acids (CT+TMD+S) or the first 49 amino acids (CT+TMD) of ManI were fused to GFP, and the corresponding chimeric proteins were named Man99-GFP and Man49-GFP, respectively (Figure 1). Man99-GFP and Man49-GFP were either stably expressed in BY-2 suspension-cultured cells or transiently expressed in tobacco leaf epidermal cells by leaf infiltration. Both Man99-GFP and Man49-GFP chimeric proteins were observed in the Golgi and in the ER in both expression systems (Figures 3A , 3B, and 3D to 3F), exactly as previously observed for the full-length construct (Figures 2A and 2B). It is important to note that when these truncated fusions were transiently expressed in tobacco leaves, the ER labeling was still observed 5 d after transformation when the overall expression levels are already strongly declining (Figure 3F), whereas XYLT35-GFP was located in the Golgi only (CITATION; Figure 3I). This further confirms that the partial location of the ManI fusions in the ER is not due to overexpression of the chimeric proteins. In addition, when BY-2 cells expressing Man99-GFP were treated with the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide for 2 h, the ER labeling did not disappear (Figure 3C) as had been observed for the full-length fusion (cf. Figure 2C). [[FIGURE]] To get a better understanding of where the fusion proteins are localized within the Golgi stacks, ManI-GFP was coexpressed with the trans-Golgi marker ST52-mRFP, which is derived from ST52-GFP (CITATION; CITATION) by replacing GFP with the monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP; CITATION). When the two chimeric proteins were expressed simultaneously in BY-2 cells, in contrast with ManI-GFP, ST52-mRFP was not detected in the ER, and both fluorescence signals were observed in Golgi bodies but did not perfectly colocalize (Figures 4A to 4C). These results are consistent with previous studies that have demonstrated that (1) the ManI-GFP fusion is located in the cis-half of the Golgi in BY-2 cells (CITATION), and (2) the 52 N-terminal amino acids of rat α-2,6-ST are sufficient to target a reporter protein predominantly to the trans-half of Golgi stacks (CITATION). Thus, confocal microscopy is sufficient to illustrate that ManI-GFP and ST52-mRFP accumulate in a different subset of cisternae in the Golgi apparatus. Finally, when, Man99-GFP or Man49-GFP was coexpressed with the trans-Golgi marker ST52-mRFP, the two fluophores only partially overlapped (Figures 4D to 4I), suggesting that the intra-Golgi localization of the truncated fusion proteins was the same as that of the full-length fusion ManI-GFP. [[FIGURE]] The first 77 N-terminal amino acids of the tobacco GNTI, including the CT, the TMD, and the stem, were previously described to contain the information required to maintain Golgi retention of this glycosyltransferase (CITATION). This polypeptide domain fused to GFP has been shown to be preferentially located in the Golgi, but the chimeric protein was also detected in the ER as observed here for the full-length construct (Figure 2H).To determine if the sequence remaining in the Golgi lumen is involved in the Golgi and ER targeting of GNTI, the lumenal part (39 amino acids) was removed and the remaining first 38 N-terminal amino acids (CT+TMD) of this glycosyltransferase were fused to GFP (Figure 1). The fusion protein was named GNT38-GFP and stably expressed in BY-2 suspension-cultured cells or transiently in tobacco leaf epidermal cells. In both expression systems, GNT38-GFP was located in the Golgi and in the ER (Figures 3G and 3H) as previously observed for the full-length construct (GNTI-GFP; Figure 2H). In addition, when GNT38-GFP was stably coexpressed with ST52-mRFP in BY-2 cells, as observed before with Man99-GFP and Man49-GFP, the two fluorescent spots overlapped, but some red fluorescence was distinguishable from the yellow, suggesting that GNT38-GFP is not in the trans-Golgi (Figures 4J to 4L) as previously observed for ManI. It is clear from these results that the CT and TMD of both ManI and GNTI are sufficient to target these glycosylation enzymes to their steady state location: the ER and the early Golgi compartments. By contrast, the same domain (CT+TMD) targets XYLT35-GFP to the Golgi only, both in BY-2 cells (CITATION) and N. tabacum leaf epidermal cells (Figure 3I). The N-terminal cytosolic region of many membrane-bound proteins residing in the mammalian and yeast ER and/or in the Golgi apparatus contains signals that facilitate either their retrieval from the Golgi back to the ER (CITATION; CITATION) or their export from the ER to the Golgi (CITATION). In plants, the length of CTs can vary widely between the different glycosidases and glycosyltransferases (Figure 11). For instance, GCSI and ManI contain a long CT (51 and 29 amino acids, respectively). In comparison, the CTs of GNTI and XYLT are only composed of 11 amino acids. To define more precisely the targeting signal of ManI and to investigate the role of the relatively long cytoplasmic domain (29 amino acids) of this glycosidase in this targeting, we generated two fusion proteins (Δ19Man-GFP and Δ19Man49-GFP). In the latter two proteins, 19 amino acids were removed so that the CT was shortened down to 10 amino acids, like the CTs of XYLT and GNTI. This truncation removed a potential dibasic motif (KxR) that might function in ER-to-Golgi transport (CITATION), although another potential ER export signal remained. A complete removal of the CT was attempted (ΔCTMan49-GFP, Figure 1), but it was not possible to get this fusion protein expressed in tobacco cells. To look for a targeting determinant in the remaining 10 amino acids of the CT, the CT sequence was substituted by an artificial sequence (MAAA) (MAAAMan49-GFP, Figure 1). This artificial sequence does not contain any known targeting sequences and does not affect the length of the hydrophobic TMD. The three constructs (MAAAMan49-GFP, Δ19Man-GFP, and Δ19Man49-GFP) were expressed in tobacco cells. The two latter labeled the ER and the Golgi (Figures 5A to 5D) just like the constructs from which they originate (Figures 2A, 2B, 3D, and 3F). In addition, the fusion protein containing an artificial MAAA CT was located in the same compartments (Figure 5E), indicating that the N-terminal cytosolic region is not necessary for ManI targeting; consequently, all information required for its steady state localization to both the ER and the Golgi apparatus is contained within the 20 amino acids of the MAAAMan49-GFP construct (i.e., in the TMD and C-terminal flanking amino acids). [[FIGURE]] According to the membrane thickness model, the distribution of N-glycan maturation enzymes in the secretory pathway is based on the length of their TMDs (CITATION). The membranes of the secretory pathway organelles increase in thickness from the ER to the plasma membrane. The ER and the cis-Golgi membranes are only 4 to 5 nm thick, whereas the membranes of the trans-Golgi, the secretory vesicles, and the plasma membrane are 8 to 9.5 nm thick (CITATION; CITATION). Moreover, targeting related to TMD length was previously illustrated by studying the location of reporter proteins after varying the length of their TMD in animal systems (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION) and, for type I proteins, also in plant cells (CITATION). This implies that the membrane of a specific compartment can only accommodate hydrophobic TMDs of the matching length. In this study, we have shown that the information required for ManI targeting is contained within a 20–amino acid sequence, including the 16–amino acid TMD. To investigate whether the length of the TMD could play a key role in the targeting of this type II membrane protein in the early plant secretory pathway, we designed two fusion proteins, ManTMD23-GFP and Man99TMD23-GFP, where the TMD of ManI was lengthened from 16 to 23 amino acids by duplication of its last seven amino acids (Figure 1). ManTMD23-GFP and Man99TMD23-GFP were expressed in BY-2 suspension-cultured cells and in tobacco leaf epidermal cells. In both plant expression systems, ManTMD23-GFP and Man99TMD23-GFP were exclusively located in bright spots (Figures 6A , 6B, and 6D) and were sensitive to the fungal toxin BFA (50 μg·mL−1, 2 h; Figure 6C). The expression patterns of ManTMD23-GFP and Man99TMD23-GFP were similar to either the XYLT-GFP fusion (Figures 3I and 6E) or the ST52-mRFP fusion (Figure 6F), both located exclusively in the Golgi in BY-2 suspension-cultured cells and tobacco leaf epidermal cells, as has been confirmed previously by electron microscopy (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Similar results were obtained in other plant systems used for transient expression. Indeed, Man99-GFP was located in the Golgi and in the ER in soybean (Figure 6G) and in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) leaf epidermal cells (Figure 6I), whereas Man99TMD23-GFP was found almost exclusively in the Golgi in both expression systems (Figures 6H and 6J). To further investigate the subcompartmentation of ManTMD23-GFP and Man99TMD23-GFP, stable BY-2 suspension-cultured cells coexpressing one or the other of these GFP fusions and ST52-mRFP were established. In the merged images, it was impossible to separate green spots from red spots, suggesting that the GFP fusions containing a 23–amino acid TMD have moved forward within the Golgi toward the trans-face so that they colocalize with ST52-mRFP at the confocal level (cf. Figures 4 and 7 ). Interestingly, the spot patterns were similar in cortical images (Figures 7D to 7F) compared with cross sections (Figures 7G to 7I), reinforcing the assumption that the Man-GFP fusions with a longer TMD and the trans-Golgi marker ST52-mRFP perfectly colocalize. By contrast, the medial Golgi marker (XYLT35-GFP) and the trans-Golgi marker (ST52-mRFP) resulted in fluorescent spots that did not overlap perfectly in the merged image (Figures 7J to 7L). [[FIGURE]] Electron microscopy coupled to immunogold labeling with polyclonal anti-GFP antibodies allowed us to determine more precisely the intra-Golgi localization of these fusion proteins. As illustrated in Figure 8 , the Man99-GFP fusion accumulated mainly to the cis-side of the Golgi (Figure 8B), whereas the Man99TMD23-GFP fusions are principally localized to the trans-side of the Golgi (Figure 8C). Similar results were obtained with ManI-GFP and ManTMD23-GFP (data not shown). Control experiments using the preimmune serum or wild-type tobacco BY-2 suspension-cultured cells showed no or very little nonspecific Golgi labeling (Figure 8A). [[FIGURE]] In conclusion, together, these results indicate that TMD length plays a key role in the targeting of ManI to the ER and the cis-Golgi compartments, and an increase in the length of the TMD from 16 to 23 amino acids relocates this type II membrane protein further downstream toward the trans-face of the Golgi (Figure 8D). Taking advantage of the large panel of Golgi marker generated during this study, we have investigated the possibility that Golgi proteins located in different Golgi subcompartments may behave differently after BFA treatment. Cells expressing ER-soluble or membrane markers (GFP-HDEL or GCS90-GFP, Figures 9A to 9D), the ER/early Golgi marker (Δ19Man49-GFP, Figures 9E and 9F), the medial Golgi marker (XYLT35-GFP, Figures 9G and 9H), or the late Golgi marker (Man99TMD23-GFP or ST52-mRFP, Figures 9I to 9L) were treated with BFA (50 μg·mL−1) for 2 h. At the end of the BFA treatment, all the fusion proteins accumulated in bright aggregates and in the ER (Figures 9E to 9L) except for the ER markers that were never found in aggregates (Figures 9A to 9D). We illustrate here that all markers relocated in the ER in presence of BFA. In cells coexpressing ER/early Golgi or late Golgi proteins with ST52-mRFP, BFA induces the redistribution of both markers into the ER and into Golgi aggregates (Figure 10 ), except for GFP-HDEL (Figures 10A to 10F) and GCS90-GFP (Figure 9D) that were not found in the aggregates. In some cases, there are subtle differences in timing, but these are not trivial to detect and also not informative with respect to intra-Golgi localization. Furthermore, no significant difference was observed in the fluorescence patterns observed after BFA treatment of cells expressing either a soluble (GFP-HDEL) or a membrane protein (GCS90-GFP) marker (Figures 9A to 9D). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the TMD length could be the only Golgi sorting determinant allowing the subcompartmentation of all glycosidases and glycosyltransferases along the plant secretory system, we compared the N-terminal sequences of characterized glycosylation enzymes (Figure 11 ). This analysis is hampered by the small number of sequences of different enzymes cloned and functionally characterized from a single species as well as a still smaller number of electron microscopy data to correlate TMD lengths and membrane thickness in a single plant system. In silico analysis of the N-terminal sequence (CT+TMD) of all plant glycosylation enzymes cloned so far clearly shows a trend for longer TMDs in proteins with the most downstream location in the Golgi stacks (Figure 11). For instance, it is interesting to note that none of the enzymes that are supposed to be located in the late Golgi, such as α-1,3-fucosyltransferases and α-1,4-fucosyltransferases, have a TMD shorter than 20 amino acids. These results are confirmed when the MENSAT_V1,8, PHOBIUS, or PRED_TMR programs are used for TMD length prediction (see Supplemental Table 2 online). However, exceptions to this general trend can be noticed when similar glycosylation enzymes from different species are compared, for example, the ManI TMDs ranging from 16 (soybean) to 20 amino acids (Arabidopsis). [[FIGURE]] Based on its short 18–amino acid TMD that could perfectly fit with the lipid bilayer model to explain its localization in the ER membrane, we have selected GCSI to check for general applicability of this model. To define whether the TMD of GCSI was sufficient for its targeting and retention in the ER, we first deleted most of the luminal part of this glycosidase (containing the catalytic domain) and fused its first N-terminal 90 amino acids (CT+TMD+S) to GFP to get the fusion protein GCS90-GFP (Figure 1). When this fusion was expressed in tobacco cells, the ER was highlighted (Figures 12A and 12B) in a pattern very similar to the one obtained with the full-length construct GCSI-GFP and the GFP-HDEL construct (cf. micrographs in Figures 12A and 12B to Figures 2D, 2E, 2G, and 10C). This result clearly shows that GCSI targeting to the ER depends on signals located within the CT, the TMD, and/or the 21 luminal amino acids remaining in this truncated protein. In a further attempt at defining the minimal protein sequence required for localization of GCSI in the ER, we deleted the first N-terminal 13 amino acids from the GCS90-GFP construct to obtain Δ13GCS90-GFP (Figure 1). When this fusion was expressed in tobacco suspension-cultured or leaf epidermal cells, the chimeric protein was located exclusively in Golgi-like spots (Figures 12D and 12E), as observed for XYLT-GFP (Figures 3I and 6E) and ST52-GFP (Figure 12F). In conclusion, the 18–amino acid long TMD of GCSI is not sufficient to target this glycosidase in the ER membrane, and additional information contained in the first 13 amino acids of the CT is required for the normal localization of this glycosylation enzyme in the secretory system. This result provides experimental proof that factors other than TMD length can influence the positioning of glycosylation enzymes in the early secretory pathway. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All ManI fusion constructs were derived from the full-length GFP fusion (here called ManI-GFP) originally described by CITATION. First, a linker containing an AatII restriction site was introduced between the ManI and the GFP coding regions. In combination with the native AatII site near the end of the predicted stem region, this allowed for simple removal of the catalytic domain to yield Man99-GFP. Second, to facilitate the removal of specific segments of the N-terminal region, three new restriction sites were introduced by PCR mutagenesis: one NheI site immediately behind the start codon, one SpeI site at codons 21 and 22, and another AatII site at codons 50 and 51. The integrity of the modified construct was confirmed by sequencing. In this new construct, the CT could be removed with NheI and SpeI to give Δ19CTManI-GFP, while an AatII digest would remove the entire lumenal part of ManI to yield Man49-GFP. Combination of the two procedures resulted in Δ19CTMan49-GFP. Finally, forward (5′-GATCCTTGGGAATGCTTGCTCTGCTCTTCATCGTTTTCGTTTGTGTCTCTTTCGTTTTCTGGGACCGTCAAA-3′) and reverse (5′-CTAGTTTGACGGTCCCAGAAAACGAAAGAGACACAAACGAAAACGATGAAGAGCAGAGCAAGCATTCCCAAG-3′) oligonucleotides encoding the 18 amino acids of the TMD domain with a start codon were synthesized, fused, and subcloned into the pBLTI121 binary vector containing the GFP without any start codon (M.C. Kiefer-Meyer and V. Gomord, unpublished data) to give ΔCTMan49-GFP. The same strategy has been used to generated MAAMan49-GFP using forward (5′-GATCCTTGGGAATGGCTGCTGCTCTTGCTCTGCTCTTCATCGTTTTCGTTTGTGTCTCTTTCGTTTTCTGGGACCGTCAAA-3′) and reverse (5′-CTAGTTTGACGGTCCCAGAAAACGAAAGAGACACAAACGAAAACGATGAAGAGCAGAGCAAGAGCAGCAGCCATTCCCAAG-3′) primers. Third, a longer TMD region was introduced in a two-step PCR mutagenesis of the modified ManI described above. In the first step, the AatII site following the TMD was replaced with a BspEI site. In the second step, a long PCR primer was used to duplicate the last seven amino acids of the predicted TMD to yield ManTMD23-GFP. Finally, the catalytic domain of this construct was removed with AatII to give Man99TMD23-GFP. All cloning steps described above were performed in pBluescript SK+. The finished expression cassettes (including a double 35S promoter and a Nos terminator) were then moved to pBIN20 (CITATION). To obtain the plant binary vector encoding ST-mRFP, GFP was replaced with mRFP (provided by Roger Tsien) in pVKH18En6 ST-GFP (CITATION). ST-mRFP expression is under control of 6x tandemly repeated CaMV 35S promoters. GNTI-GFP and GNT38-GFP were amplified by PCR using the Nicotiana tabacum cDNA encoding N-GNTI as template (CITATION). Reverse primers 5′-GGTCACTAGTATCTTCATTTCCGAGTTG-3′ and 5′-GGTCACTAGTGCGATCTGCATATTCTGACTG-3′ were used for PCR with the forward primer 5′-AACGTCTAGAATGAGAGGGTACAAGTTTTGC-3′ to amplify the GNTI and the N-terminal 38–amino acid end of the GNTI to obtain GNTI-GFP and GNT38-GFP, respectively. To express GCSI-GFP, the total cDNA was amplified by PCR using Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA cloned as by CITATION, fused at the N-terminal end of GFP, and subcloned in pBLTI121 (CITATION). Then, the first 90 amino acids were amplified by PCR with forward (5′-CGGGGTACCCCATGACCGGAGCTAGCCGT-3′) and reverse (5′-GACTAGAAAAGGAGTGATAACCCT-3′) primers and subcloned in the SpeI restriction site located at the 5′ end of GFP contained in the pBLTI121 binary vector to give GCS90-GFP. In the same way, the 90 amino acids deleted of the first 13 amino acids were amplified by PCR with forward primer (5′-CGGGGTACCCCATGAAATCATCATCATTATCTCCC-3′) and the same reverse primers as above to give Δ13GCS90-GFP. pVKH18En6-mRFP, PBLTI121-GFP, and pBIN20-GFP-fusions were transferred into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101 pMP90; CITATION) by heat shock. Transgenic Agrobacterium were selected onto YEB medium (per liter, 5 g beef extract, 1 g yeast extract, 5 g sucrose, and 0.5 g MgSO4 7H2O) containing kanamycin (100 μg·mL−1) and gentamycin (10 μg·mL−1) and were used to transform N. tabacum (cv BY-2) cells, as described by CITATION. Transformed tobacco cells were selected in the presence of kanamycin (100 μg·mL−1) for PBLTI121-GFP and pBIN20-GFP fusions or hygromycin (40 μg·mL−1) for pVKH18En6-mRFP and cefotaxime (250 μg·mL−1). For the double transformants coexpressing GFP and mRFP fusions, microcalli were first selected onto kanamycin plates and were then transferred onto hygromycin plates. After screening, calli expressing the GFP and or mRFP fusions were used to initiate suspension cultures of transgenic cells. Three- to four-day-old BY-2 suspension-cultured cells were used for experiments. Agrobacterium was cultured at 28°C until the stationary phase (∼20 h), washed, and resuspended in infiltration medium (50 mM MES, pH 5.6, 0.5% glucose [w/v], 2 mM Na3PO4, and 100 μm acetosyringone from 10 mM stock in absolute ethanol [Sigma-Aldrich]) (CITATION). The bacterial suspension was pressure injected into the abaxial epidermis of N. tabacum, G. max, or S. lycopersicum leaves using a 1-mL plastic syringe by pressing the nozzle against the lower leaf epidermis (CITATION). The plants were incubated for 3 d at 20 to 25°C unless specified in the figure legend. For tomato and soybean, the same transformation procedure was followed, but the cells were observed after 2 d. Tobacco cells were incubated in 30 μg·mL−1 cycloheximide for 2 h or 50 μg·mL−1 BFA for 2 h before confocal analysis (from 10 mg·mL−1 stock in DMSO [Sigma-Aldrich]). Cells expressing GFP/mRFP fusions were imaged using a Leica TCS SP2 AOBS confocal laser scanning microscope. Single-color imaging of GFP was done using a 488-nm argon ion laser line, and the fluorescence was recorded by a photomultiplier set up for 493 to 538 nm. Dual-color imaging of cells coexpressing GFP and mRFP was performed using simultaneously a 488-nm argon ion laser line and a HeNe 543-nm laser line. Fluorescence signals were separated using an acousto-optical beam splitter, and GFP emission was detected in photomultiplier 2 (493 to 538 nm), whereas mRFP was collected in photomultiplier 3 (580 to 620 nm). The power of each laser line, the gain, and the offset were identical for each experiment so that the images were comparable. Appropriate controls were performed to exclude the possibility of crosstalk between the two fluorochromes before the image acquisition. Immunolabeling was performed on cryosections of 3-d-old BY-2 suspension-cultured cells fixed in a mixture of 2% formaldehyde and 2% glutaraldehyde for 16 h, embedded in 12% gelatin, and infiltrated with 2.3 M sucrose (M.-L. Follet-Gueye and A. Driouich, unpublished data). The cells were then frozen in liquid nitrogen and sectioned at −120°C (Leica UCT). Grids were floated in successive solutions at room temperature for 2 min. They were first incubated in PBS buffer containing 0.1% glycin (w/v) to inactivate residual fixative. The grids were blocked in PBS buffer with 1% BSA (w/v) and then incubated with the anti-GFP antibodies diluted 1:100 in blocking buffer for 30 min. After washing in PBS buffer, the grids were blocked in normal goat serum (NGS5; British Biocell International) 1:30 in PBS buffer containing 0.1% BSA (w/v). After incubation with the secondary antibody (10 nm EM gold conjugates, goat anti-rabbit IgG; British Biocell International) diluted 1:25 in blocking buffer for 30 min, the grids were incubated with 1% glutaraldehyde (v/v) in PBS for 5 min and finally washed in water. The specimen were stained for 5 min with 2% (w/v) cold methyl cellulose containing 0.4% (w/v) uranyl acetate, pH 4.0, and observed with a transmission electron microscope (Tecnai 12, 80 kV; FEI-Philips). Sequence data of the genes from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers and Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers: AF126550 (G. max ManI; CITATION), AF272852/At5g55500 (Arabidopsis XYLT; CITATION), NTY16832 (N. tabacum GNTI; CITATION), and AJ278990/At1g67490 (Arabidopsis GCSI; CITATION). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Table 1. Additional Data in Complement to Figure 11. Supplemental Table 2. Transmembrane Domain Length Analysis.
