!~ABS~! FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC), a strong floral repressor, is one of the central regulators of flowering in Arabidopsis thaliana. The expression of FLC is increased by FRIGIDA (FRI) but decreased by vernalization, a long period of cold exposure that accelerates flowering. Although many aspects of FLC regulation have been reported, it is not known how FLC is transcriptionally activated by FRI at the molecular level. We isolated suppressor of FRIGIDA4 (suf4), a mutant that flowers early as a result of low FLC expression. SUF4 encodes a nuclear-localized protein with two C2H2-type zinc finger motifs and a Pro-rich domain. SUF4 protein interacts with FRI and FRIGIDA-LIKE1 (FRL1), two genes for which single mutations have the same phenotype as suf4. SUF4 also bound to the promoter of FLC in a chromatin immunoprecipitation assay, suggesting that SUF4 acts as a transcriptional activator of FLC after forming a complex with FRI and FRL1. In addition, suf4 suppresses luminidependens (ld), a late-flowering mutation that causes an increase of FLC, and SUF4 protein directly interacts with LD. Thus, we propose that LD binds to SUF4 to suppress its activity in the absence of FRI.
!~RES~! To elucidate the FRI-mediated FLC regulatory mechanism, we screened early-flowering mutants from FRI-containing Col (Col:FRISF2) after fast neutron mutagenesis as reported previously (CITATION; CITATION). From this screen, we isolated a recessive mutant designated as suf4 that showed early flowering almost identical to Col, which is a fri null, and did not display any other morphological alterations (Figure 1A ). An F2 population derived from the cross with the wild type after three generations of backcrossing showed an ∼3:1 segregation ratio (37 late versus 13 early, χ2 = 0.027), indicating that a single recessive locus was the cause of the phenotype. The flowering responses of suf4 to photoperiod and vernalization were similar to those of Col (i.e., suf4 showed similar delays in flowering in short days and similar acceleration of flowering by vernalization as Col) (Figure 1B). In addition, the suf4 fri double mutant showed the same phenotype as suf4 (FRI suf4) or Col (fri SUF4) (Figure 1B, Table 1 ). To determine if the early-flowering phenotype caused by the suf4 mutation is due to a defect in FLC activation by FRI, FLC expression was checked by RNA gel blot analysis using 10-d-old seedlings (Figure 1C). Similar to Col, the FLC transcript was barely detectable in suf4, while SOC1 transcript was increased. This demonstrates that SUF4 is necessary for FRI-mediated FLC activation. [[FIGURE]] Flowering Time of suf4 and Double Mutants with Other Flowering Time Mutants For positional cloning of the SUF4 gene, suf4 in Col:FRISF2 was crossed to Ler:FRISF2FLCSF2, which was obtained by six backcrosses of San Feliu-2 to Ler (CITATION; CITATION). A total of 1600 early-flowering F2 plants were selected for mapping analysis. suf4 was located near the centromere of chromosome 1 between the two simple sequence length polymorphic (SSLP) markers, SH12 and SH15, in the 244-kb interval that is covered by three BAC clones (Figure 1D). Because fast-neutron-induced mutagenesis often creates genomic deletions of various lengths, we searched restriction fragment length polymorphisms between the wild type and suf4 using the three BAC clones as probes. The different restriction patterns were detected when BAC F17F8 and At1g30960, one of the genes located within F17F8, were used as probes (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Further analysis of this region by PCR revealed that the genomic DNA of suf4 contains a deletion of ∼6 kb, which includes two zinc finger domains in the N-terminal region of At1g30970 (Figure 1D). The sequences of the two neighboring genes, At1g30960 and At1g30975, were intact, and the expression levels of them were not altered in suf4 as expected (Figure 1E). By contrast, the expression of At1g30970 was not detected in suf4. To confirm that the loss of At1g30970 leads to the suf4 phenotype, suf4 was crossed to SALK_056285, which has a T-DNA insertion in the third exon of At1g30970. The SALK_056285 line was most likely a null allele because it did not show any expression of At1g30970 when checked by RT-PCR, and similar to the suf4, it did not show any flowering phenotype in the Col background (data not shown). All the resulting F1 progenies exhibited an early-flowering phenotype, and 56 F2 progenies derived from the selfing of the F1 flowered in the same manner as suf4, confirming that At1g30970 is indeed SUF4 (Figure 1F). The SUF4 gene contains seven exons and encodes a protein with two C2H2-type zinc finger domains at its N-terminal region and a Pro-rich domain in the central region (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). The deduced amino acid sequence of SUF4 was distinct from those of other zinc finger proteins in the Arabidopsis database (data not shown). The comparison of amino acid sequence of SUF4 with those of other plant proteins with two zinc fingers showed no significant similarity except one homologous protein in the rice (Oryza sativa) genome (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). However, the SUF4 amino acid sequence showed similar characteristics with ZP207 class zinc finger proteins reported in animals (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION); it has a potential nuclear localization signal at its N terminus, the two zinc fingers are separated by two amino acids, and it has a Pro-rich domain that is usually found in transcription factors (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). The SUF4 transcript was detected in all of the tissues tested, although the expression was weaker in the cauline leaves and stems (Figure 2A ). The time-course experiment showed that SUF4 expression is gradually increased during development similar to FRI expression (Figure 2B). By contrast, SUF4 transcript was not detectable in suf4, showing that this mutant is a null allele. The LD gene involved in the autonomous pathway also showed gradual increase during development, although the increase was less pronounced. When checked if the expression of SUF4 is affected by environmental conditions, SUF4 expression level was not influenced by photoperiod or vernalization (Figure 2C). It is noteworthy that FRI expression was not affected by suf4 nor was SUF4 expression affected by fri (Figures 2B and 2C), which suggests that SUF4 and FRI do not regulate each other at transcriptional level. [[FIGURE]] We always detected two bands for SUF4 transcript in RNA gel blot analysis: a major larger form and a minor smaller form. To confirm that SUF4 produces differently sized transcripts, RT-PCR was performed using the primer sets designed to amplify the whole open reading frame (Figure 2D). The result showed three transcripts of 1103, 1623, and 1829 bases designated as α, β, and γ, respectively. The sequencing of individual RT-PCR products showed that β and γ forms were derived from incomplete RNA processing; the last three introns remained in the γ form, whereas the last intron remained in the β form (Figure 2D). The amount of transcripts from RT-PCR did not reflect the real transcript level detected in RNA gel blot analysis (for example, the γ form was higher than the α form in the RNA gel blot analysis). This difference may be due to the preferential amplification of small size by PCR. Because each of the three transcripts produces a different amino acid sequence at the C terminus, we wondered which transcript is functional. For this, we generated transgenic lines overexpressing the three transcripts from the constitutive 35S promoter in suf4 and Col (fri null). The transgenic lines overexpressing either α, β, or γ in suf4 showed similar late flowering as the wild type (Figure 2E). When the transgenic lines overexpressing the γ form and the β form were analyzed by RT-PCR, only the smallest transcript was overexpressed (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Thus, the smallest α form is most likely functional, and the β and γ transcripts are intermediate forms that have not completed the splicing process. When α, β, or γ forms were overexpressed in Col, none of the transgenic lines showed apparent alteration in flowering time compared with Col (data not shown), indicating that FRI activity is necessary for SUF4 function in delaying flowering. The mRNA processing of SUF4 was not changed by any of the mutations in FLK, FCA, FY, FPA, and ABH1, genes encoding RNA binding or processing proteins that are involved in the regulation of FLC (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). In addition, SUF4 expression was not affected by any of the flowering time mutants, such as ld, fve, and fld (autonomous pathway mutants), co, gi, and ft (photoperiod pathway mutants), and soc1 (a flowering pathway integrator) (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). In the suf4 mutant, FLC expression was suppressed, although FRI expression was not changed (Figure 2B). In the wild type, FLC is expressed at the highest levels in shoot and root apices (CITATION). To evaluate whether the suf4 mutation leads to a reduction of FLC expression in these regions, we introduced FLC-β-glucuronidase (GUS) into suf4 (Figure 3A ). Consistent with the previous report, FLC-GUS in the wild type was easily detected in germinating seedlings, and the expression remained strong in the shoot and root apices afterwards. By contrast, FLC-GUS in suf4 was greatly reduced in both shoots and root tips, which is different from pie1, which shows FLC reduction only in shoots (CITATION). FLC-GUS expression was reduced to 5.3% in 3-d-old seedlings and 4.0% in 6-d-old seedlings by suf4 mutation (Figure 3B). This is noteworthy because the SUF4 transcript was barely detectable in 3-d-old seedlings (Figure 2B). This result suggests that the low expression of SUF4 is even necessary for the activation of FLC in young seedlings. [[FIGURE]] To address if SUF4 regulates other floral repressors as well as FLC, we examined the expression of FLM/MAF1, MAF2, MAF3, and MAF5, which were previously reported as FLC clade genes (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). The suf4 mutation did not affect the transcript levels of these genes (Figure 3C). It also did not affect the expression of CO, a central regulator of photoperiod pathway (Figure 3C). It was reported that vernalization suppresses FLC and the neighboring gene UPSTREAM OF FLC (UFC) coordinately as a cluster by chromatin modification (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). When checked if the suf4 mutation reduces UFC expression, it was not changed by suf4 (Figure 3C). This indicates that SUF4 plays a specific role in the regulation of FLC transcription. Because suf4 and fri have the same phenotype, and double mutants are identical to either single mutant (Figure 1, Table 1), we wondered if SUF4 function is dependent on FLC like that of FRI. We compared the flowering time of the suf4 flc-3 double mutant with those of suf4 and flc-3 (a null allele) single mutants (Table 1). The flc-3 mutant flowered earlier than Col, especially in short days as reported (CITATION). It also flowered earlier than suf4 in Col, as suf4 has the same phenotype with Col. The suf4 flc-3 double mutant flowered at the same time with flc-3 in both long days and short days (Table 1), suggesting that SUF4 function is dependent on FLC. Consistently, 35S-FLC was epistatic to suf4; 35S-FLC suf4 showed similar flowering time with 35S-FLC (Table 1). This indicates that FLC is the major target of SUF4 activity for flowering regulation. The phenotypes of the suf4 vip4 double mutant confirmed this. VIP4 is a component of the Arabidopsis PAF1 complex, which mediates trimethylation of H3K4 in FLC chromatin. The vip4 mutation causes complete suppression of FLC and other FLC-clade genes, thus causing earlier flowering than flc (CITATION). As expected, the suf4 vip4 double mutant did not show further earlier flowering than vip4 (Table 1). To define the role of SUF4 in the flowering mechanism, double mutants were made that contained suf4 and other flowering-time mutations. The photoperiod pathway mutants co-1 and ft-1 were crossed to suf4. The flowering times of suf4 co-1 and suf4 ft-1 were almost identical to those of the co-1 and ft-1 single mutants, respectively (Table 1). This is consistent with the fact that the suf4 mutation did not affect the responsiveness to photoperiod (Figure 1B). In addition, soc1-2, a mutation in one of the flowering pathway integrators, was epistatic to suf4, indicating that SUF4 does not have an effect downstream of FLC (Table 1). It was of interest to determine whether SUF4 interacts with autonomous pathway genes or acts independently to increase the FLC expression. We checked the flowering time of the double mutants of suf4 and several autonomous pathway mutations (Table 1). The suf4 fve-3 and suf4 fca-9 double mutants flowered slightly earlier than the fve-3 and fca-9 single mutants, respectively. The most significant suppression of late flowering by suf4 was found in ld-1. Such suppression resulted from decreased FLC; the double mutants showed a decrease of FLC compared with single autonomous pathway mutants (Figure 4 ). Consistent with the flowering phenotype, suf4 ld-1 showed the strongest decrease in FLC expression (Figure 4B). However, FLC transcript levels in any of the double mutants were still higher than that in Col or the suf4 single mutant (Figure 4A). Such results show that SUF4 activity is responsible for the late-flowering phenotype of ld, fve, and fca at least partially. [[FIGURE]] To understand the cellular function, we determined the subcellular locations of SUF4, FRI, and LD. For this, genes encoding SUF4:green fluorescent protein (GFP), SUF4:red fluorescent protein (RFP), yellow fluorescent protein (YFP):FRI, and YFP:LD fusion proteins were introduced transiently into Arabidopsis protoplasts. SUF4:GFP, SUF4:RFP, YFP:FRI, and YFP:LD were detected in the nucleus (Figure 5 ). However, the subnuclear localization pattern of YFP:FRI protein was somewhat different than that of others. YFP:FRI was dispersed throughout the nucleus, and fluorescence was observed as evenly distributed speckles (Figure 5C). By contrast, SUF4:GFP, SUF4:RFP, and YFP:LD did not show such speckles (Figures 5A, 5B, and 5D). [[FIGURE]] The single mutants of suf4 and fri showed similar early flowering and similar decrease of FLC expression; thus, both are required for activation of FLC. Recently, FRL1, a FRI-related gene, has been found to be required for FLC activation (CITATION). Because FRI and FRL1 have a coiled-coil domain that may provide a protein interaction surface, and both FRI and SUF4 are localized in the nucleus, we wondered if the three proteins SUF4, FRI, and FRL1 interact with each other. To test this, the full-length proteins were fused to GAL4 DNA binding domain or to GAL4 transcriptional activation domain for yeast two-hybrid interaction analysis (Figures 6A and 6B). As a negative control, we checked the interaction of SUF4 and TERMINAL FLOWER2 (TFL2) (Figure 6A). TFL2 encodes the nuclear protein HP1 (for heterochromatin protein 1) that acts in the photoperiod pathway upstream of FT and thus plays a role in a different genetic pathway than SUF4 (CITATION; CITATION). As expected, no interaction was detected between SUF4 and TFL2. However, the interaction analysis showed that SUF4 binds to both FRI and FRL1. In addition, SUF4 and FRI showed homodimerization activity. Notably, we did not detect FRL1 binding to FRI nor FRL1 homodimerization (Figure 6A). [[FIGURE]] The genetic interaction analysis showed that suf4 strongly suppresses the ld phenotype (Table 1). Because LD encodes a homeodomain protein and is also localized in the nucleus, we tested if SUF4 interacts with LD at the protein level. As shown in Figure 6A, LD protein bound to SUF4 but not to FRI or FRL1 in yeast two-hybrid analysis. When the bait and prey were changed, the yeast cells grew slowly but confirmed the interaction of LD and SUF4 (Figure 6B). This result indicates that the protein–protein interaction is the basis of genetic suppression of ld by suf4. We tested if the protein–protein interactions also occur in plant cells using a transient gene expression system (CITATION; CITATION). The Agrobacterium tumefaciens cells harboring empty vector, SUF4:MYC alone, and SUF4:MYC with FRI:HIS, FRL1:HA, LD:HA, or ARP6:FLAG fusion constructs were infiltrated into tobacco leaves, and then total proteins were extracted 2 d after infiltration for coimmunoprecipitation tests (Figure 6C). Protein extracts were immunoprecipitated with anti-MYC antibody for empty vector or SUF4:MYC-infiltrated tissues, anti-HIS antibody for SUF4:MYC with FRI:HIS coinfiltrated tissues, anti-HA antibody for SUF4:MYC with LD:HA or FRL1:HA coinfiltrated tissues, and anti-FLAG antibody for SUF4:MYC with ARP6:FLAG, respectively. The precipitated proteins were then analyzed by protein gel blots using each antibody. As expected, a negative control, SUF4:MYC with ARP6:FLAG coinfiltrated tissues, did not show coimmunoprecipitation of SUF4 and ARP6 (Figure 6C). By contrast, SUF4:MYC was detected in the anti-HIS or anti-HA immunoprecipitates repeatedly, demonstrating the direct physical interactions of SUF4 with FRI, FRL1, and LD in plant cells. Therefore, this suggests that FRI, FRL1, and SUF4 form a protein complex, and LD interacts with SUF4 for the regulation of FLC. The zinc finger motif in SUF4 is well known for binding to DNA. Therefore, we addressed the question of whether SUF4 interacts with FLC by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay, a method used to detect the physical interaction of a transcription factor with DNA (CITATION). For the ChIP assay, we generated 35S-SUF4α:MYC transgenic lines in which the 35S-SUF4α:MYC protein was detected in expected size by protein gel blot analysis (data not shown). After immunoprecipitation with anti-MYC antibody, enrichment of FLC promoter region was detected by real-time quantitative PCR (Figure 7 ). Compared with the control of the wild type, a region of FLC promoter ∼545 to 850 bp upstream from the transcription initiation site, detected by the FLC-3 primer set, was highly enriched in 35S-SUF4α:MYC (Figure 7). This region corresponds to the location of the positive cis-element in the FLC promoter reported previously (CITATION). By contrast, reduced fold enrichment was detected in the promoter region of 248 to 560 bp upstream (FLC-2 region) close to the FLC-3 region. The FLC+5 region downstream of the first intron (Figure 7; CITATION) showed much less enrichment. This result showed that SUF4 binds to the region around FLC-3 in vivo, suggesting that SUF4 is recruited to the promoter region of FLC for transcriptional activation. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The wild type used in this study was Arabidopsis thaliana Col:FRISF2 strain, which is a Col near-isogenic line described previously (CITATION). The suf4 T-DNA insertion line (SALK_056285) was obtained from the SALK collection. Seeds were stratified on 0.65% phytoagar containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog (Plantmedia) salts for 3 d at 4°C. For vernalization, the Murashige and Skoog plates were incubated several weeks at 4°C under short-day conditions. Afterwards, plants were grown in long days (16 h light/8 h dark) or short days (8 h light/16 h dark) under cool white fluorescent lights (100 μmol/m2/s) at 22°C with 60% relative humidity. Flowering time was measured by counting the number of rosette leaves from at least 20 plants. Fast-neutron mutagenesis and mutagenized populations of Col:FRISF2 strain have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION). suf4 was selected among early-flowering mutants that flower as early as Col, and complementation analysis showed that it was a single allele. For the positional cloning of the SUF4 gene, 1600 early flowering F2 progenies from the crosses between suf4 and Ler:FRISF2 FLCSF2 were obtained. Using molecular markers described by CITATION, rough mapping was obtained. Then, several SSLP and cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequence markers were made using the alignment program EditPlus 2 provided by the website (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/LALIGN_form.html) after extracting Col and Ler sequence (http://www.arabidopsis.org/Cereon/index.jsp). The sequences of primers for the markers made are shown in Supplemental Table 1 online. To check if the three alternatively spliced transcripts could complement the early flowering of suf4, three differently sized cDNAs of SUF4 were amplified by RT-PCR with forward primer (5′-GGGGGATCCATGGGTAAGAAGAAGAAGAG-3′) and reverse primer (5′-AAAGGATCCCTAAAACGCCATCCGCCCAGC-3′). The BamHI fragment of each PCR product was cloned into pCAMBIA1303-BS binary vector that contains the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the NOS terminator (CITATION). For cellular localization experiments, yeast two-hybrid assays, and coimmunoprecipitation analyses, constructs were made using PCR fragments containing the open reading frame of each gene. The sequence information of primer sets for amplification of each cDNA and the proper vector for the plasmid construction are presented in Supplemental Table 2 online. RNA extraction and RNA gel blot analyses were performed as described previously (CITATION). For the SUF4-specific probe, the digoxigenin-labeled mRNA probe prepared from pGEM-T Easy vector containing the β form of SUF4 transcript was used. For RT-PCR, the primers SUF4 forward (5′-TTCCTGGAGTCTGTTAG-3′) and SUF4 reverse (5′-GAGCATCATCATCAAGTG-3′) were used. For quantification of GUS activity, MUG assay was performed as described (CITATION) using 10 plants for each genotype. This assay was repeated three times. Arabidopsis protoplasts were prepared as described (CITATION). The protoplasts expressing the GFP, RFP, and YFP fusion proteins were observed with a confocal laser scanning microscope equipped with an argon/krypton laser (Bio-Rad) as described (CITATION). The resulting green and red images were overlaid and processed using Confocal Assistant 4.02 (Todd Clark Brelje) and Adobe Photoshop 6.0. The vectors and yeast strains (Matchmaker GAL4 Two-Hybrid System 3) were obtained from Clontech. Yeast two-hybrid assay was performed according to the manufacturer's instructions. The appropriate plasmids were cotransformed into yeast strain AH109 using the lithium acetate method and selected on SD (synthetic drop) medium lacking Leu and Trp. After 4 d of incubation at 30°C, yeast cells were spotted on the selection plates containing SD medium lacking Leu, Trp, Ade, and His. These plates were incubated at 22°C until yeast cells were grown to form colonies. For ChIP, we generated the 35S-SUF4α-MYC transgenic line, which was made by the introduction of binary vector pKH34 into Col by the vacuum infiltration method. Wild-type and 35S-SUF4α-MYC seedlings grown under short-day conditions for 8 d were used for ChIP experiments. The procedures were followed according to the manufacturer's guide (Upstate). All experiments were done using triplicate biological samples. The antibody against MYC tag was used for immunoprecipitation, and ChIP products from wild-type and 35S-SUF4α-MYC seedlings were used for amplification of FLC genomic fragments by quantitative real-time PCR with the following primers: FLC-3 forward (5′-AAGAAATCTTAAATGTCC-3′) and FLC-3 reverse (5′-TCGTTTATTGTGTTACCATTC-3′), FLC-2 forward (5′-ATTGCAGAAAGAACCTCCAC-3′) and FLC-2 reverse (5′-CTATTGCCATATGTGTGGAC-3′), FLC+5 forward (5′-TGAACTCATGAAAGAGGCGTT-3′), and FLC+5 reverse (5′-CAAGGTGTTCCTCCAGTTGAA-3′). Quantitative RT-PCR was performed as described with the use of SYBR-green probes (CITATION). PCR product accumulation was monitored on an ABI PRISM 7300 sequence detection system (Applied Biosystems). ACTIN was used as an internal endogenous control to normalize the amount of target DNA. The wild type was used as a nonspecific binding control against 35S-SUF4α-MYC. All reactions were run in triplicates. The copy number of genomic fragments of FLC was calculated according to the 2ΔΔCt method (CITATION). All constructs were incorporated into the binary vector pCGN18 under the 35S promoter. Overnight culture (OD600 of 0.5 to 1) of Agrobacterium tumefaciens transformed with these constructs was resuspended in 10 mM MgCl2 and 150 mM acetosyringone. Nicotiana benthamiana plants were grown in a Magenta box at 22°C under short days until they had six leaves, and the youngest leaves >1 cm in length were infiltrated with Agrobacterium (CITATION). The infiltrated plants were grown for 2 d in long days, and leaves were harvested and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Total proteins of each sample were prepared by grinding leaves in liquid nitrogen and extracting with 1 mL/three leaves extracting buffer containing 10 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 10% glycerol (v/v), 100 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 0.2% Triton X-100 (v/v), 1 mM PMSF, and 2 μg/mL each of aprotinin, leupeptin, and pepstatin A. The extract was centrifuged for 20 min at 13,000 rpm, and the supernatant was transferred to a new tube. The supernatant was precleared with 1/20 volume of protein A agarose beads (Upstate) for 1 h at 4°C. Each supernatant was then immunoprecipitated with anti-HA, anti-HIS, anti-MYC, and anti-FLAG according to proteins at 4°C overnight, followed by incubation with 1/10 volume of beads. After brief centrifugation, beads were washed twice each with buffer A (50 mM Tris, pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, and 0.1% Triton X-100) and buffer B (buffer A without NaCl), and then 45 μL of SDS loading buffer was added. Protein gel blot analysis with anti-MYC antibody was performed to detect coimmunoprecipitated SUF4-MYC protein. Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for the genes mentioned in this article are as follows: SUF4 (At1g30970), FRI (At4g00650), FRL1 (At5g16320), LD (At4g02560), and FLC (At5g10140). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Positional Cloning of SUF4 and Deduced Amino Acid Sequence. Supplemental Figure 2. Transcript Level of SUF4 in SUF4 Overexpression Lines. Supplemental Figure 3. SUF4 Expression in the Mutants of RNA Binding or Processing Genes. Supplemental Figure 4. SUF4 Expression in the Flowering Time Mutants. Supplemental Figure 5. ChIP Analysis of Histone H3 Modifications at the FLC Locus. Supplemental Table 1. SSLP and CAPS Markers Used in This Study. Supplemental Table 2. Sequences of Primers Used for the Plasmid Construction.
