!~ABS~! Cell death suppressor Bax inhibitor-1 (BI-1), an endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein, exists in a wide range of organisms. The split-ubiquitin system, overlay assay, and bimolecular fluorescence complementation analysis demonstrated that Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) BI-1 (AtBI-1) interacted with calmodulin in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and in plant cells. Furthermore, AtBI-1 failed to rescue yeast mutants lacking Ca2+ ATPase (Pmr1 or Spf1) from Bax-induced cell death. Pmr1 and Spf1, p-type ATPases localized at the inner membrane, are believed to be involved in transmembrane movement of calcium ions in yeast. Thus, the presence of intact Ca2+ ATPases was essential for AtBI-1-mediated cell death suppression in yeast. To investigate the effect of AtBI-1 on calcium homeostasis, we evaluated sensitivity against cyclopiazonic acid (CPA), an inhibitor of sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ ATPase in AtBI-1-overexpressing or knock-down transgenic Arabidopsis plants. These plants demonstrated altered CPA or ion stress sensitivity. Furthermore, AtBI-1-overexpressing cells demonstrated an attenuated rise in cytosolic calcium following CPA or H2O2 treatment, suggesting that AtBI-1 affects ion homeostasis in plant cell death regulation.
!~RES~! Overexpression of barley BI-1 in resistant mlo5 barley plants results in almost complete reconstitution of susceptibility to penetration by B. graminis (CITATION), suggesting that BI-1 and Mlo, CaM-binding proteins, possess similar functions in the plant defense system. Thus, we tried to evaluate the interaction between CaM and BI-1 proteins. The plasmid possessing HvCaM3 protein was kindly provided by Dr. Ralph Panstruga (Max-Planck Institute). The yeast split-ubiquitin system demonstrated that AtBI-1 interacted with HvCaM3 (Fig. 1 ). As reported previously, AtBI-29, AtBI-30, and AtBI-32 are C-terminal mutants of AtBI-1 (CITATION). Although the AtBI-29 and AtBI-32 mutants maintained inhibitory function toward Bax-induced cell death in yeast, the AtBI-30 mutant lacked the C-terminal coiled-coil structure and function (CITATION; Fig. 1A). As shown in Figure 1B, AtBI-29 and AtBI-32 maintained the interaction with HvCaM3, whereas AtBI-30 did not. These results suggest the possibility that such interaction may be necessary for the suppressive action of AtBI-1 on Bax-induced cell death. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the interaction between AtBI-1 and Arabidopsis CaM, an in vitro overlay assay was performed. HvCaM3 is almost identical to Arabidopsis CaM7 (AtCaM7; CITATION), with only one amino acid substitution (A11→S11). S- and His-tagged AtCaM7 expressed in Escherichia coli was purified by nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid resin. Maltose-binding protein (MBP)-tagged, C-terminal 14 amino acids of AtBI-1 (BI-C) or β-galactosidase (Gal; control) purified by amylose resin were used for the overlay assay. As shown in Figure 2 , purified BI-C and Gal proteins were immunoblotted with anti-MBP antibody. The membrane was reprobed with recombinant AtCaM7 protein in the presence of 1 mm CaCl2 or 5 mm EGTA. AtCaM7 did bind to BI-C, although this protein did not bind to the Gal protein (control). EGTA inhibited such binding, confirming the importance of calcium in CaM-mediated binding. [[FIGURE]] To verify AtBI-1/CaM binding in planta, a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay was performed in Agrobacterium-infiltrated tobacco leaves. As previously reported, the green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged AtBI-1 protein (AtBI-GFP) localized to the perinuclear region, which is indicative of ER localization, in tobacco epidermal cells (Fig. 3F ). When the AtBI-1 fused to the N-terminal yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fragment and AtCaM7 fused with the C-terminal YFP were coexpressed in tobacco leaves, a strong BiFC signal was detected in the epidermal cells (Fig. 3, A, C, and E), confirming the interaction of AtBI-1 and AtCaM7 in planta. Control experiments in which pSPYNE-AtBI-1 and unfused pSPYCE were coexpressed did not show any fluorescence (Fig. 3, B and D). [[FIGURE]] An increase in cytosolic Ca2+ has been implicated in the signal transduction pathway that mediates apoptosis (CITATION). It is possible that members of the Bcl-2 family affect the apoptotic process by modulating ion fluxes in the cell (CITATION). Based on the above background, we then investigated the role of proteins involved in calcium transport on the inhibitory function of AtBI-1 against Bax-induced cell death in yeast. As shown in Table I , we employed several mutants deficient in calcium homeostasis-related proteins. Mid1, Yvc1, and Cch1 are Ca2+ channels located in the ER and PM, vacuole, and PM, respectively (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Spf1, Pmc1, and Pmr1 are Ca2+ ATPases localized in endomembranes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Vcx1 is a vacuolar H+/Ca2+ antiporter, and Ccc1 localized to the vacuole is involved in iron, manganese, and Ca2+ homeostasis in yeast (CITATION; CITATION). To evaluate the antiapoptotic function of AtBI-1, the wild-type yeast line and mutants possessing Yep51-Bax plasmids were transformed with pYX112-AtBI, which were then subjected to spot assay. The growth curve of these yeast strains expressing AtBI-1 was almost the same, and sensitivity of these yeast strains against Bax-induced cell death was also similar (data not shown). As shown in Figure 4, A and B , wild type and most mutants expressing both Bax and AtBI-1 grew on Gal-containing medium. However, Δpmr1 and Δspf1 cells failed to grow by the expression of Bax even when AtBI-1 was overexpressed. Reverse transcription (RT)-PCR demonstrated that deficiency in Pmr1 and Spf1 did not affect AtBI-1 expression (Fig. 4C). Furthermore, microscopic analysis using GFP-tagged AtBI-1 protein confirmed perinuclear localization of AtBI-1 in Δpmr1 and Δspf1 cells as well as in wild-type cells (Fig. 4D). We demonstrated previously that AtBI-GFP fusion protein has cell death-suppressing activity similar to AtBI-1 (CITATION). Pmr1 is a Ca2+ ATPase with sequence similarity to animal sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ ATPase (SERCA) and is located in Golgi body membranes (CITATION). It is suggested that Pmr1 is involved in the regulation of calcium concentration in the ER (CITATION). On the other hand, Spf1 is a homolog of SERCA localized at the ER. Both Ca2+ ATPases are believed to be involved in transmembrane movement of ions, calcium, and manganese (CITATION; CITATION). Other mutants deficient in calcium transport in the PM and vacuole did not influence the antiapoptotic function of AtBI-1 (Fig. 4A). Yeast strains used in this study [[FIGURE]] Pmr1 and Spf1 are members of the SERCA family and plant homologs have also been identified (CITATION). To understand the relationship between intracellular calcium homeostasis and BI-1 in plant cells, we evaluated the effect of cyclopiazonic acid (CPA), a specific inhibitor of SERCA, using transgenic Arabidopsis plants with AtBI-1 overexpression (OX) or knock-down (KD) lines (Fig. 5A ). RT-PCR analysis demonstrated that AtBI-1 was overexpressed in lines OX1 and OX2 and reduced in lines KD1 and KD2 (Fig. 5B). To evaluate CPA sensitivity, each plant line was grown on 0.5× Murashige and Skoog medium with or without 5 μm CPA. Although these transgenic plants showed no obvious phenotype under general growing conditions, slight growth retardation was observed in control and KD lines on CPA-containing medium (data not shown). To examine the effect of CPA on leaves, we measured chlorophyll content using three-fifths of leaves of 3-week-old plants (Fig. 5C). Although the chlorophyll content measured in untreated plants was similar in all lines, KD and control lines (wild type and GFP) demonstrated reduced chlorophyll content on CPA-containing medium. In contrast, OX lines showed elevated chlorophyll content with unknown mechanisms, suggesting that overexpression of AtBI-1 overcame the effect of SERCA inhibition by CPA. We also investigated the effects of TG, which is also a well-known SERCA inhibitor in animals. However, no obvious phenotype was evident in TG-treated plants (20 μm; data not shown). In fact, ECA1, an Arabidopsis homolog of SERCA, is CPA sensitive, but TG insensitive (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To gain more insight into the function of AtBI-1, we investigated ion stress sensitivity of AtBI-1 transgenic plants. It is reported that Arabidopsis ECA1, an ER-localized SERCA-type Ca2+ pump, plays a role in both Ca2+ and Mn2+ homeostasis and is required to support plant growth under conditions of Ca2+ deficiency or Mn2+ toxicity (CITATION). To evaluate ion stress sensitivity in plants with altered AtBI-1 expression, AtBI-1 transgenic plants were grown on a Ca2+-deficient or Mn2+-rich (0.5 mm) plate. When plants were grown on such plates for 3 weeks, KD lines showed severe growth defects and less chlorophyll content (Fig. 6 ). In contrast, OX plants had elevated chlorophyll content and less growth retardation in both ion stress conditions, suggesting AtBI-1 affects ion homeostasis in plant cells. [[FIGURE]] Alterations in cytosolic Ca2+ ([Ca2+]cyt) have been implicated in apoptosis control mechanisms. The antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2 reduces Ca2+ efflux through the ER membrane (CITATION). A rapid increase in [Ca2+]cyt is a common response to pathogen challenge in plant cells (CITATION) and oxidative stress (CITATION). We therefore explored the effects of BI-1 overexpression on Ca2+ homeostasis. To investigate the role of AtBI-1 on calcium flux in plant cells, transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells were examined using the calcium-sensitive luminescent protein aequorin. In our previous work, BY-2 cells overexpressing AtBI-1 showed resistance to H2O2- or SA-induced cell death (CITATION). The vectors pBIG-AtBI-MBP (BI) and pBIG-MBP (VC) were introduced into tobacco BY-2 cells expressing proaequorin protein (CITATION). Transformed cells were treated with H2O2 or CPA and their viability was measured. It is known that H2O2 and CPA induce rapid [Ca2+]cyt elevation and cell death (CITATION; CITATION). Although CPA or H2O2 treatment caused massive cell death in the control BY-2 cell line (VC), the AtBI-1 overexpressed line (BI) repressed such effects (Fig. 7A ). Using the same cell lines, we monitored [Ca2+]cyt after H2O2 or CPA treatment. As shown in Figure 7, B and C, rapid elevation in [Ca2+]cyt appeared as a peak at 1 to 2 min after H2O2 or CPA treatment. The luminescence traces showed individual properties between CPA and H2O2 treatment. The duration and peak time was similar between cells expressing vector control and AtBI-1 (data not shown). Treatment of AtBI-1-expressing cells with H2O2 resulted in a slight decrease of [Ca2+]cyt at peak point compared with control cells. The CPA-released calcium concentration in AtBI-1-overexpressing cells was reduced to 75% to 80% of the control at peak point. The resting value of [Ca2+]cyt before treatment was around 100 nm in all transformed strains (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Protein interaction with AtBI-1 was analyzed using the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) split-ubiquitin system (CITATION; CITATION). Plasmid vector (HvCaM3) and yeast cells were kindly provided by Dr. Ralph Panstruga and Dr. IE Somssich (Max-Planck Institute). The C-terminal mutants of AtBI-1 were constructed using PCR, as described previously (CITATION). The coding region of AtBI-1 and the C-terminal mutants (AtBI-29, 30, and 32) were cloned into pMet-Cub-Ura3 vector to construct the bait plasmids. Yeast cells (JD53 strain) were transformed with different combinations of bait (AtBI-1 and the mutants) and prey constructs, and the His+Trp+Ura+ transformants were streaked on minimal medium containing 5-fluoroorotic acid (5-FOA; 0.1%) and were incubated at 30°C for 4 d. Replacement of Ile-13 of wild-type Nubi by Ala (NuA) decreases the affinity to Cubi (CITATION; CITATION). The low Cubi-affinity NuA prey variant served as a negative control. Transgenic plants expressing AtBI-1 and GFP (Arabidopsis [Arabidopsis thaliana] ecotype Col-0) were described previously in CITATION, CITATION). To generate KD plants, an RNAi plasmid, pK7GWIWG2(II)-AtBI, was constructed. Briefly, the 3′-terminal fragment of AtBI-1 cDNA (+291/+744; translation initiation is +1) was introduced into the RNAi plasmid pK7GWIWG2(II) (CITATION) by the Gateway system. The resulting plasmid was transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 (CITATION) using the freeze-thaw method (CITATION). Transformation of Arabidopsis plants was carried out by the floral-dip method (CITATION). Obtained plants were grown at 23°C under continuous light conditions (60 μmol m−2 s−1). We used an overlay assay to examine the ability of the C-terminal region of AtBI-1 to bind with Arabidopsis CaM 7 (AtCaM7) protein in vitro. The AtCaM7 cDNA was inserted into pET32+ vector (Novagen) to obtain His- and S-tagged AtCaM7 protein. The resultant vector pET32-AtCaM7 was transformed into Escherichia coli BL21 strain and the recombinant His- and S-tagged CaM7 protein was purified according to the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen). The 14-amino acid C terminus of AtBI-1 was ligated into pMAL vector (NEB) to express MBP-tagged protein. The resultant vector was transformed into E. coli BL21 strain and MBP-tagged BI-C protein was purified according to the instructions provided by the manufacturer (NEB). The empty pMAL vector possessing in-frame Gal was used as a control (MAL-Gal). The purified BI-C and MAL-Gal proteins were applied to SDS-PAGE, then blotted onto polyvinylidene difluoride membranes. The membranes were immunoblotted with anti-MBP antibody (NEB) or overlay assayed with recombinant AtCaM7 protein in the presence of 1 mm CaCl2 or 5 mm EGTA as described by CITATION. To detect CaM7 binding, horseradish peroxidase-conjugated S-protein (Novagen) and an ECL kit (Amersham Biosciences) were used because CaM7 protein was expressed as S-tagged protein. Plasmids for BiFC analysis were kindly provided from Dr. Klaus Harter (University of Köln) and Dr. Hironori Kaminaka (University of Tottori; CITATION). PCR-amplified coding regions of AtBI-1 and AtCaM7 were introduced into the XbaI/BamHI site. The resultant plasmid, pSPYNE-AtBI-1, was fused with the N-terminal (1–155 amino acids) region of YFP, and pSPYCE-AtCaM7 was fused with the C-terminal (156–239 amino acids) part of YFP. BiFC was performed in 6-week-old Nicotiana benthamiana plants after Agrobacterium-mediated transient transformation according to CITATION. For analysis of the BiFC signal, a fluorescence microscope (DMRD; Leica) was applied. For the control experiment, pBin-AtBI-GFP (CITATION) was infiltrated to N. benthamiana leaves and GFP fluorescence was examined. Yeast disruption mutants were purchased from Euroscarf. Plasmids used here were described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Yeast disruption mutants and wild-type (BY4741) cells were transformed with Gal-inducible Yep51 vector harboring Bax (Yep51-Bax) and pYX112 vector harboring AtBI-1 (pYX112-AtBI-1). After culture of transformants in liquid medium containing Glc for 1 d, the A600 of each culture was adjusted to 0.1 and serially diluted to 0.0001. Each dilution (5 μL) was spotted on synthetic dextrose medium containing Glc or Gal and was incubated at 30°C for 2 d (Glc) or 4 d (Gal). GFP-tagged AtBI-1 (pYX112-AtBI-GFP) was transformed into yeast cells (CITATION). GFP fluorescence was examined with a fluorescence microscope (DMRD; Leica). For measurement of cell viability, Nicotiana tabacum BY-2 cells were treated with the indicated reagents for 16 h and stained with 0.03% Evans blue. The numbers of stained (dead) and unstained (live) cells were counted under microscopy. Arabidopsis and yeast total RNA was extracted using the RNeasy plant mini prep kit (Qiagen) and 0.2 μg were used as a template for RT-PCR with specific primers for AtBI-1 (5′-GGAATTCATGAGCATCCTTATCACTGCATT-3′ and 5′-GGTACCTCAGTTTCTCCT TTTCTTCTTC-3′) and Actin8 (5′-TGAGCCAGATCTTCATCGTC-3′ and 5′-TCTCTTGCTCGTAGTCGACA-3′). The conditions for direct amplification with Ready-to-Go RT-PCR Beads (Amersham-Pharmacia) were 1 cycle at 42°C for 20 min and at 95°C for 5 min; 28 cycles at 95°C for 30 s, at 58°C for 30 s, and at 72°C for 1 min. Ion stress treatment was performed as described by CITATION. Briefly, surface-sterilized seeds were germinated on an 0.8% agar plate with 0.5× Murashige and Skoog medium with 0.5 mm MnCl2 or calcium-free medium under constant illumination (60 μmol m−2 s−1). To measure chlorophyll content, leaves obtained from each seedling were homogenized with 80% acetone. The supernatant, collected after centrifugation, was examined at 663 and 645 nm, and the chlorophyll content was calculated as described by CITATION. N. tabacum BY-2 suspension culture cells expressing proaequorin in the cytosol (CITATION) were used for the measurement of [Ca2+]cyt. The coding sequence of MBP was amplified from pMAL vector by PCR and was cloned into pBIG vector containing the 35S promoter of the Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) and the nopaline synthase terminator to generate pBIG-MBP. To express AtBI-MBP in BY-2 cells, PCR-amplified fragments of AtBI-1 were cloned into pBIG-MBP. The resultant vectors, pBIG-AtBI-MBP and pBIG-MBP (control), were used for the Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of N. tabacum BY-2 cells expressing proaequorin protein (CITATION). [Ca2+]cyt was measured by a method as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Transformed BY-2 cells (3 d old) were incubated with 1 μm coelenterazine in the culture medium in darkness for 8 h to reconstitute the calcium-sensitive luminescent protein aequorin. Cells were washed with and resuspended in fresh medium and used after 30 min of resting incubation. H2O2 or CPA was added to the cells and [Ca2+]cyt-dependent aequorin luminescence was monitored with a CHEM-GLOW photometer (American Instrument Co.) equipped with a pen recorder (Rikadenki Co.), and expressed as relative peak height of aequorin luminescence. After each experiment, all remaining aequorin was discharged with 1 m CaCl2 and 10% ethanol, and the resultant luminescence was measured to estimate the amount of remaining aequorin. [Ca2+]cyt was calculated using the calibration equation: pCa = 0.332588(−log k) + 5.5593, where k represents luminescence counts per second divided by total counts (CITATION).
