!~ABS~!  Ca 2+ -signaling in downstream effectors is supported by many kinds of Ca 2+ -binding proteins, which function as a signal mediator and a Ca 2+ -buffering protein. We found in Arabidopsis thaliana a new type of Ca 2+ -binding protein, CCaP1, which consists of 152 amino acid residues, and binds 45 Ca 2+ even in the presence of a high concentration of Mg 2+ . We found two other proteins with similar motifs, CCaP2 and CCaP3. These three proteins had no organelle localization signal and their green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions were detected in the cytosol. Real-time PCR and histochemical analysis of promoter–β-glucuronidase fusions revealed that CCaP1 was predominantly expressed in petioles while CCaP2 was expressed in roots. CCaP3 was hardly expressed. Expression of CCaP1 and CCaP2 was enhanced in darkness and became maximal after 24 h. Immunoblotting revealed petiole-specific accumulation of CCaP1. Expression of CCaP1 and CCaP2 was suppressed by a high concentration of Ca 2+ and other metal ions. Deletion of sucrose from the medium markedly increased the mRNA levels of CCaP1 and CCaP2 within 2 h. Gibberellic acid enhanced the expression of CCaP1 and CCaP2 by 5- and 2.5-fold, respectively, after 6 h. CCaP1 and CCaP2 were suppressed in the petiole and the root, respectively, by light and the product of photosynthesis (sucrose) or both. These results suggest that CCaP1 functions as a mediator in response to continuous dark or gibberellic acid. 
!~RES~!  CCaP1 (DDBJ/GenBankTM/EBI locus ID, At1g62480) was found as a protein with some sequence similarity to RVCaB in a search of the Arabidopsis database. CCaP2 and CCaP3 were found as homologs of CCaP1. CCaP1, CCaP2 (At1g12080) and CCaP3 (At3g59370) are predicted to consist of 152, 138 and 95 amino acid residues, respectively. As shown in Fig. 1 , the three proteins showed in common the abundance of glutamate (>30%), valine (>16%), threonine and lysine residues, and lack of cysteine, glycine, tyrosine, arginine and tryptophan residues. However, the overall sequence identity among the three sequences is relatively low (42%, 40/95). Charged residues comprise 41% of CCaP1, 44% of CCaP2 and 45% of CCaP3. CCaP1 and CCaP2 contain a characteristic VEEKK or VEEEKK motif. Most parts of CCaP1, CCaP2 and CCaP3 were predicted to form helices by the method of Chou and Fasman (1974).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  Protein sequence homology search by the UniProt/Swiss-Prot ( http://www.ebi.uniprot.org/index.shtml ) with a program of PAPIA ( http://mbs.cbrc.jp/papia-cgi/seqHS_menuJ.pl ) gave several proteins with low similarity, such as calsequestrin, neurofilament triplet proteins (NF-H and NF-M) (Park et al. CITATION ) and a kiwi fruit protein KIWI501. However, CCaPs have no calsequestrin consensus motif [(E/Q)(D/E)GL(D/N)FPxYDGxDRV]. Neurofilaments are intermediate filament proteins with high molecular masses of 160 kDa (NF-M) and 200 kDa (NF-H), and their structures are different from that of CCaPs. KIWI501 was found in developing fruits of kiwifruit as a glutamate/alanine/proline-rich protein (Ledger and Gardner CITATION ), although its function is unknown. Therefore, the three CCaPs we identified are novel proteins whose function remains unknown.   CCaP1 synthesized in Escherichia coli as a recombinant protein migrated as a protein of 33 kDa ( Fig. 2 A), which was higher than the molecular mass (18 kDa) predicted from the cDNA. Acidic proteins including RVCaB (Yuasa and Maeshima CITATION ) have been reported to migrate slowly on SDS–PAGE (Vorum et al. CITATION ). The antibody raised against the C-terminal sequence of CCaP1 clearly reacted with the purified protein at 31 kDa in the presence of a final concentration of 500 mM NaCl and in the absence of SDS or Triton X-100 ( Fig. 2 B). The high concentration of NaCl was effective for trapping CCaP1 on the transfer membrane. The 31 kDa immunostained band was not detected with the antibody pre-treated with a corresponding antigen peptide ( Fig. 2 B), indicating the specificity of the antibody to CCaP1.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  The purified CCaP1 was clearly stained with the metachromatic cationic carbocyanine dye Stains-all ( Fig. 2 A), which has been used for identification of CaBPs (Campbell et al. CITATION ). Most of the CaBPs with acidic motifs to bind Ca 2+ stain blue with Stains-all, whereas other proteins stain pink and the color fades away quickly in the light (Yuasa and Maeshima CITATION ). The blue staining pattern suggested that CCaP1 can bind Ca 2+ . This property of CCaP1 was revealed by 45 Ca 2+ overlay analysis ( Fig. 2 C) in the presence of 5 mM MgCl 2 and 60 mM KCl followed by rinsing with 50% ethanol. The purified CCaP1 reproducibly gave a clear positive signal of 45 Ca 2+ , demonstrating the Ca 2+ -binding capacity of CCaP1 in vitro. In this assay, calmodulin showed a positive signal and immunoglobulin no signal.   To examine the presence of CCaP1 protein among plants, we tested the immunoreactivity of soluble fractions prepared from several plants. Soluble fractions from radish ( Raphanus sativa ), rose ( Rosa ), broccoli ( Brassica oleracea var. italica), turnip ( Brassica rapa ) and Chinese cabbage ( Brassica rapa , cv. Pekinensis) showed an immunostained band at 34 kDa with anti-CCaP1 antibody (data not shown). The result suggests that CCaP1 is a protein common to higher plants.   To determine the subcellular localization of CCaP proteins, which are highly charged proteins with no predicted transmembrane domain, we prepared DNA constructs encoding fusion proteins of CCaP1, CCaP2 and CCaP3 with green fluorescent protein (GFP) and expressed them transiently in Arabidopsis roots ( Fig. 3 , left two panels) and suspension-cultured cells ( Fig. 3 , right two panels). The green fluorescence from GFP was clearly detected in the cytosolic space in both the root and suspension-cultured cells. In the control, the fluorescence of the cells expressing free GFP was dispersed throughout the cytosol and nucleus in both the root and suspension-cultured cells ( Fig. 3 A–C).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  The mRNA levels of CCaP1, CCaP2 and CCaP3 were quantified by real-time PCR and compared in several organs ( Fig. 4 ). CCaP1 was expressed in all organs examined. In this experiment, the root contained the bottom part of hypocotyls. CCaP2 was expressed in shoot, root, stem, flower and silique, but was hardly expressed in the cauline leaf and rosette leaf. In contrast, CCaP3 was expressed predominantly in roots, and the mRNA level in other organs was <5% of that in roots. In the present experiment, we quantified the copy numbers of each transcript, although the data show the relative contents normalized with the 18S rRNA content. The amount of CCaP3 mRNA in whole plants was <1% of that of CCaP1 and CCaP2 when quantitated by semi-quantitative reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  The putative promoter regions of about 2 kb were fused in-frame with the β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene and transformed into Arabidopsis . Staining for GUS activity in 3-week-old plants of several independent lines revealed cell-specific expression of CCaP genes ( Fig. 5 ). There was strong GUS activity for CCaP1 in the petiole and the main leaf veins ( Fig. 5 A–C) and weak GUS activity in the root. The GUS activity for CCaP2 and CCaP3 was predominantly detected in the root ( Fig. 5 D–I). There was strong GUS activity for CCaP2 in endodermis in the stele and for CCaP3 in cambium.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  Immunoblotting of cytosolic fractions from petioles and other organs from 3-week-old plants with anti-CCaP1 antibody revealed the petiole-specific accumulation of the protein ( Fig. 6 ). The immunostained band was clearly detected in petiole but not in roots or leaves, from which petioles and the main leaf vein were removed.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  We examined the time-dependent expression in a day/night (12 h/12 h) cycle by real-time PCR analysis of CCaP genes ( Fig. 7 ). The mRNA levels of CCaP1 and CCaP2 were decreased during the day and increased at night, although the amplitude of fluctuations of CCaP1 and CCaP2 mRNAs was smaller than that of Chl a / b -binding protein. The CCaP3 mRNA level hardly changed.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  The mRNA levels of CCaP1 and CCaP2 , but not that of CCaP3 , were markedly increased in the prolonged dark period and reached a maximum after 24 h in darkness. The maximum levels were 20-fold the basal level during the day and the high levels were maintained for 80 h. Unlike Chl a / b -binding protein, they did not show a circadian rhythm ( Fig. 8 D). The level of CCaP1 protein monitored by immunoblotting was increased during the dark period ( Fig. 8 E, F). Therefore, the transcript level of CCaP1 might be partly reflected in the protein level.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  The mRNA levels of CCaP1 and CCaP2 in whole plants were decreased by 60% by treatment with 50 mM CaCl 2 for 2 h ( Fig. 9 A). CaCl 2 showed a suppressive effect on the mRNA levels even at 5 mM. The suppressive effect of CaCl 2 on the mRNA in CCaP2 was nullified at 18 h.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  The mRNA levels were examined in plants incubated for 48 h with CaCl 2 or other metals at concentrations not affecting their growth ( Fig. 9 B). Unlike CaCl 2 , NaCl and KCl did not decrease the mRNA levels of three CCaPs . On the contrary, treatment with 100 mM NaCl increased the mRNA levels of CCaP1 and CCaP2 by 150 and 80%, respectively ( Fig. 9 B). Therefore, the suppression of transcription by CaCl 2 might not be due to the ionic strength. Like calcium, magnesium, cadmium, manganese, nickel and zinc also down-regulated the three genes. Interestingly, CoCl 2 at 0.1 mM did not show a suppressive effect.   The effect of deficiency of metals on the mRNA levels was also examined by changing the growth medium from the metal-containing medium (at 5 mM) to 0.5× MS medium without the corresponding metal. The mRNA levels of CCaP1 and CCaP2 were increased by 80% after deletion of Mg 2+ for 2 h (data not shown). The mRNA levels of CCaP1 and CCaP2 were relatively constant in the absence of Ca 2+ .   Since carbon source nutrients affect the expression of many genes (Rolland et al. CITATION ), we examined the effect of four different sugars at a concentration of 150 mM ( Fig. 10 ). Mannitol and sorbitol increased the mRNA level of CCaP1 . The CCaP2 mRNA level was increased at 18 h of incubation with glucose, mannitol or sorbitol. The mRNA level of CCaP3 was markedly suppressed by the incubation with these sugars.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  The mRNA levels of CCaP1 and CCaP2 were unaffected by sucrose at 150 mM ( Fig. 10 A). On the other hand, the CCaP1 mRNA was increased 2-fold and remained at a high level when sucrose was depleted from the medium. The CCaP2 mRNA level was increased by 60% at 2 h. The mRNA level of CCaP3 was markedly lowered by sucrose depletion.   Among the three phytohormones examined, only gibberellic acid increased the mRNA levels of CCaP1, CCaP2 and CCaP3 ( Fig. 11 ). In particular, treatment with gibberellic acid for 6 h increased the transcript level of CCaP1 > 6-fold. Salicylic acid (SA) and ABA showed a suppressive effect on the mRNA level of CCaP3 .  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  The flagellin oligopeptide flg22, which is the most highly conserved region in the N-terminus of eubacterial flagellin (Felix et al. CITATION ), induces pathological responses in Arabidopsis and other plants (Nuhse et al. CITATION , Zipfel et al. CITATION ). Treatment with the flagellin peptide showed no effect on CCaP1 , but decreased the CCaP2 and CCaP3 mRNA levels.   The transcript level of CCaP1 was unaffected by the transfer of 3-week-old plantlets grown at 22°C to either 36 or 4°C, but the mRNA levels of CCaP2 and CCaP3 were increased 2-fold 6 h after transfer to 4°C. Dehydration showed no effect on the three genes. 
!~MM~!  Seeds of A. thaliana (Col-0) were germinated on sterile gel plates containing Murashige–Skoog (MS) salt, 2.5 mM MES-KOH (pH 5.7), 2% (w/v) sucrose and 0.25% Gellan gum (Wako Pure Chemical Ind., Osaka, Japan) (standard medium, 1× MS-sucrose) at 22°C under continuous light (90 μmol m −2 s −1 ). The effects of metal ions, sugars and phytohormones were examined on sterile gel plates containing 0.5× MS-sucrose supplemented with the corresponding metal. For examination of phytopathological responses, plantlets were treated with flagellin oligopeptide. The flagellin-derived peptide with 22 residues (flg22) was synthesized according to the consensus sequence for the most highly conserved region in the N-terminus (QRLSTGSRINSAKDDAAGLQIA) of eubacterial flagellin (Felix et al. CITATION , Kobae et al. CITATION ). In some cases, seeds germinated on agar plates were grown in vermiculite in pots under continuous light. Arabidopsis (Col-0) suspension-cultured cells (also called ‘Deep’ cells; obtained from Dr. Masaaki Umeda of the University of Tokyo, Japan) were cultured in MS medium at 22°C in the dark.   For antibody production, we synthesized a peptide corresponding to the C-terminal region of Arabidopsis CCaP1 (positions 139–152, VEASVTAPVEKADE) ( Fig. 1 , overlined sequence). The peptide was linked with carrier protein (keyhole limpet hemocyanin) and injected into rabbits. The peptide and antibody were prepared by Operon Biotechnology (Tokyo, Japan). Protein samples were subjected to SDS–PAGE and immunoblotting. The blots were visualized with horseradish peroxidase-coupled protein A and Western blotting detection reagents (GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences, Piscataway, NJ, USA). Protein concentration was determined using a BCA protein assay reagent kit (Pierce Biotechnology, Rockford, CA, USA). Cytosolic fractions were prepared from 3-week-old plants. Tissue homogenates were centrifuged at 10,000× g for 20 min and the supernatants were centrifuged at 104,000× g for 30 min. The obtained supernatant was concentrated by adding trichloroacetic acid at a final concentration of 15%. The precipitate was rinsed with cold ethanol, suspended in SDS solution, and then immunoblotted together with recombinant CCaP1 protein.   Organs or whole plants frozen in liquid nitrogen were homogenized with a mortar and pestle. RNA extracted using an extraction kit (Clontech, Mountain View, CA, USA) was treated with DNase I and an RNase-free DNase Set (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA). RNA (1 μg) was converted into cDNA using Superscript II RNase H − reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) and oligo(dT) 20 .   Real-time PCR analysis was performed with an iCycler iQ Real-Time PCR system (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA) using the iQ SYBR Green Supermix (Bio-Rad) as described previously (Kamiya et al. CITATION ). Primer sets used for real-time PCR were: 5′-CGGTAACAGAATCTCAAGCG-3′ (forward) and 5′-CCTCCGGAGTTTCAACTTGA-3′ (reverse) for CCaP1; 5′-CCAACAAAGACAGTGGAGGA-3′ (forward) and 5′-TTCTACAATTGGTGCTTCGGA-3′ (reverse) for CCaP2; 5′-CCTTTCTTTCGTGTTGAAGAG-3′ (forward) and 5′-TACGACTACAATACTATGTTCAT-3′ (reverse) for CCaP3; and 5′-CGGCTACCACATCCAAGGAA-3′ (forward) and 5′-GCTGGAATTACCGCGCGGCT-3′ (reverse). The specificity of these primers was confirmed by PCR. Sample mixtures incubated for 30 s at 94°C were subjected to 40 cycles of PCR (94°C, 30 s; 54.3–63°C, 30 s; 72°C, 30 s), and heated at 55–94.5°C with a 0.5°C interval (10 s incubation). Standard plasmids that contained a sequence of each CCaP were prepared. The standard curves for each CCaP was generated by using these standard plasmids and gene-specific primers. The copy numbers of the products were calculated from the threshold cycles of triplicate real-time PCR assay using the standard curves. Relative mRNA contents were normalized with the 18S rRNA content. Values are expressed as means ± SD calculated for three assays.   GFP fusion proteins were constructed by amplifying cDNAs for CCaP1, CCaP2 and CCaP3 by PCR using the primer sets as follows: 5′-CACCATGGCCACCATCGAGGTTG-3′ (forward) and 5′-CTCATCAGCCTTCTCCACTG-3′ (reverse) for CCaP1 ; 5′-CACCATGGCCACCGTTGAGGTTG-3′ (forward) and 5′-CTCCTCGGCCTTCTCAAC-3′ (reverse) for CCaP2 ; and 5′-CACCATGGCCACCGTTGAGGTTG-3′ (forward) and 5′-CTCCTTGGCCTTCTCGAC-3′ (reverse) for CCaP3 . The resulting fragments were inserted into pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen) followed by the destination vector pGWB5 or New-pUGW5 (developed by Dr. Tsuyoshi Nakagawa, Shimane University, Japan) to generate a fusion construct with GFP at the C-terminus of CCaP1, CCaP2 or CCaP3.   For transient expression in roots, 1 μm gold particles coated with the GFP–CCaP fusion construct were bombarded onto Arabidopsis roots at a distance of 6 cm using an IDERA Particle Gun (Tanaka Co., Sapporo, Japan) at 600 mHg. Transformed roots were stored in the dark overnight at 23°C. Procedures used for expression in Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells (Deep cells) were as described previously (Kobae et al. CITATION , Ishikawa et al. CITATION ). The GFP fluorescence was visualized with a Fluoview FV500 confocal laser scanning microscope (Olympus).   Putative promoters of CCaP1 (−1,641 to +12 from the predicted start codon), CCaP2 (−1,711 to +12) and CCaP3 (−1,911 to +15) were amplified from genomic DNA. The fusion product was produced by ligating DNA fragments with the additional sequence CACC at their 5′ termini into the binary vector pGWB203 (developed from Invitrogen Directional TOPO pENTR vector by Dr. Tsuyoshi Nakagawa), which contains the DNA sequence for GUS. The chimeric constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain pMP90 (C58C1) by electroporation to transform Arabidopsis plants (Ishikawa et al. CITATION ). Transformants were selected on plates containing 40 μg ml −1 Benlate (Sumitomo Chemical Co., Osaka, Japan), 0.20 μg ml −1 Cefotax (Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Tokyo, Japan), 50 μg ml −1 hygromycin and 30 μg ml −1 kanamycin.   T 2 plants for the GUS analysis were incubated with 90% (v/v) acetone for 30 min at −20°C and then washed with 100 mM phosphate buffer (pH 7.0). The tissues were infiltrated with a solution containing 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), 0.5 mM K 3 Fe(CN) 6 , 0.5 mM K 4 Fe(CN) 6 , 10 mM EDTA, 2 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β- d -glucuronide, 20% (v/v) methanol and 0.3% (w/v) Triton X-100 under vacuum for 30 min, and then incubated at 37°C until blue histochemical staining was confirmed (6–24 h). The stained tissues were incubated sequentially in 30, 50 and 70% ethanol for 1 h, dehydrated, embedded in Histo Resin Plus (Leica, Heidelberg, Germany) and sectioned with a microtome. Root sections were counter-stained with 0.01% safranine O (Waldeck GmbH & Co. KG, Muenster, Germany) before observation.   cDNA for CCaP1 was amplified by PCR with the primers 5′-G GAATTC CAAATGGCCACCATCCGAGGTTG-3′ (forward) and 5′-ATAGTTTA GCGGCCGC TCTCATCAGCCTTCTCCACTG-3′ (reverse; Eco RI and Not I sites are underlined) using KOD-Plus DNA polymerase (Toyobo, Osaka, Japan). The amplified DNA fragment was inserted into a plasmid vector pZErO™-2 (Invitrogen) and then ligated into the Eco RT/ Not I site of the pET23b expression vector (Novagen, Madison, WI, USA). After confirmation of the nucleotide sequences, the expression vector was introduced into E. coli BL21(DE3) (Novagen). Transformants were grown in LB broth supplemented with 50 mg l −1 ampicillin for 3 h at 30°C after induction with 0.5 mM isopropylthio-β- d -galactopyranoside.   Cells were harvested by centrifugation and suspended in 20 mM Tris-acetate (pH 7.5) containing 20% (v/v) glycerol, 0.2 mg ml −1 DNase, 0.4 mg ml −1 lysozyme, 10 mM 2-mercaptoethanol and protein inhibitor cocktail (0.5× Complete, EDTA-free) (Roche Applied Science, Mannheim, Germany). The cells were disrupted by sonication for 12.5 min on ice. After removal of cell debris by centrifugation at 104,000× g for 30 min, the supernatant was applied to a Hi Trap Q Sepharose HP column (GE Healthcare, 5 ml) equilibrated with 20 mM Bis-Tris-acetate (pH 7.5), 1 mM dithiothreitol (DTT) and 5% (v/v) glycerol, and then eluted with an NaCl concentration gradient (0–150 mM). The peak fractions of CCaP1 were collected and applied to a Hi Load Superdex 75 column (GE Healthcare, 1.6 × 60 cm) equilibrated with 20 mM Bis-Tris-acetate (pH 7.5), 1 mM DTT, 150 mM NaCl and 5% (v/v) glycerol.   Purified preparations of IgG, calmodulin and CCaP1 were blotted onto a poly(vinylidene difluoride) membrane using a slot blot apparatus (Bio-Rad). The membrane sheet was washed twice with 10 mM MES-KOH, pH 6.5, 5 mM MgCl 2 and 60 mM KCl; incubated in the same buffer (1 ml) supplemented with 1 mM CaCl 2 and 3.7 MBq of 45 Ca 2+ (as CaCl 2 ) at 25°C for 30 min; washed twice in 10 ml of 50% (v/v) ethanol; and dried at room temperature. An autoradiogram of the 45 Ca 2+ -labeled proteins on the membrane was obtained by exposure to an X-ray film for 3 d at −80°C. 
