!~ABS~! The SWR1/SRCAP complex is a chromatin-remodeling complex that has been shown to be involved in substitution of histone H2A by the histone variant H2A.Z in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and animals. Here, we identify and characterize SERRATED LEAVES AND EARLY FLOWERING (SEF), an Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) homolog of the yeast SWC6 protein, a conserved subunit of the SWR1/SRCAP complex. SEF loss-of-function mutants present a pleiotropic phenotype characterized by serrated leaves, frequent absence of inflorescence internodes, bushy aspect, and flowers with altered number and size of organs. sef plants flower earlier than wild-type plants both under inductive and noninductive photoperiods. This correlates with strong reduction of FLOWERING LOCUS C and MADS-AFFECTING FLOWERING4 transcript levels and up-regulation of FLOWERING LOCUS T and SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CONSTANS 1 gene expression. The sef phenotype is similar to that of the photoperiod-independent early flowering1 (pie1) and the actin-related protein 6 (arp6) mutants. PIE1 and ARP6 proteins are also homologs of SWR1/SRCAP complex subunits. Analysis of sef pie1 double mutants demonstrates genetic interaction between these two genes. We also show physical interactions between SEF, ARP6, and PIE1 proteins. Taken together, our data indicate that SEF, ARP6, and PIE1 might form a molecular complex in Arabidopsis related to the SWR1/SRCAP complex identified in other eukaryotes.
!~RES~! A search for Arabidopsis protein homologs of yeast SWR1 and human SRCAP complex subunits led us to the identification of a protein related to the yeast Swc6 and to the human ZnF/HIT1 proteins (CITATION; CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S1), which we called SEF. This protein, encoded by the At5g37055 locus (Fig. 1A ), was also closely related to Nicotiana benthamiana CIBP1, originally identified as a Plum pox virus cylindrical inclusion-interacting protein (accession no. AAW83129). This family of factors is characterized by the presence of a HIT-type zinc finger domain (pfam04438) in the carboxy terminus of the protein. The HIT-type zinc finger contains seven conserved Cys and one His that can potentially coordinate two zinc atoms (Supplemental Fig. S1). Semiquantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR experiments demonstrated that SEF transcript was present in all tested tissues (Fig. 1B). To investigate the role of Arabidopsis SEF in plant development, we decided to look for sef null mutants. A search for T-DNA insertion lines in different collections was carried out, and two different lines were originally identified from the SAIL collection (Fig. 1A) that we designed as sef-1 and sef-2. Line SAIL_536_A05 (sef-1) contained a single T-DNA inserted in the putative promoter region, 30 bp upstream of the first nucleotide of the available largest cDNA and 83 bp upstream of the first translated nucleotide. RT-PCR analysis was unable to detect SEF mRNA in homozygous sef-1 plants (Fig. 1C). Line SAIL_1142_C03 (sef-2) had a single insertion in exon 2 of the At5g37055 locus, corresponding to nucleotide 200 of the coding region. RT-PCR analysis, using primers upstream and downstream of the T-DNA insertion point, demonstrated the absence of SEF mRNA in homozygous sef-2 plants (Fig. 1C). [[FIGURE]] sef-1 and sef-2 plants presented identical phenotypes and will be described simultaneously. Heterozygous plants displayed a wild-type phenotype indicating that sef-1 and -2 were recessive mutations. The progeny of self-fertilized heterozygous plants followed a normal Mendelian segregation. Homozygous plants exhibited different leaf development alterations depending on the photoperiod regime. Under long-day conditions (LD), sef leaves were smaller than those of the wild type and presented serrated margins. In contrast, under short days (SD) mutant leaf size was almost identical to that of the wild-type, but serrated phenotype was more severe (Fig. 1, D and E). Interestingly, a similar serrated phenotype has been described in pie1 and arp6 plants under SD conditions (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The rate of leaf initiation was almost identical in sef mutants and wild type, both in LD and SD (data not shown). Then we examined the development of inflorescence and flowers. Mutant plants produced 2 to 3 times more coflorescence shoots than the wild type. This was accompanied by a shortening or absence of inflorescence internodes, resulting in a reduction of inflorescence length and thereby in a bushy appearance of mutant plants (Fig. 1, F and G). As shown in Figure 2 and Table I , sef flowers displayed several developmental abnormalities. They were smaller than wild-type flowers (Fig. 2A). Petals of mutant plants were about 25% smaller than wild-type petals and slightly wrinkled (Fig. 2C). In addition, mutant flowers often presented extra petals. This phenotype was more prominent in the first arising flowers under SD conditions, where extra sepals were also observed (Fig. 2B; Table I). Stamens were shorter than carpels (Fig. 2I), and most mutant flowers presented altered number of these organs (four or five), both under SD and LD. In contrast to the wild type, all mutant stamens presented the same length. Mutant anthers were smaller than those of the wild type and often presented a heart shape typical of immature anthers. The number of pollen grains was severely reduced, but its morphology and nuclei distribution was found normal after 4′,6-diamino-phenylindole (DAPI) staining and microscopic observation (Fig. 2, F–H; data not shown). sef gynoeciums were shorter and irregularly thickened in comparison to those of wild-type plants (Fig. 2D). Mutant siliques were also shorter and thicker (Fig. 2E) and contained unfertilized ovules or white aborted seeds (Fig. 2, J and K), especially under SD conditions. In addition, distribution of seeds was more crowded in mutant siliques than in the wild-type siliques, which may explain the abnormal shape of many adult mutant seeds. The average number of seeds per mutant silique was 42.4 ± 4.4 in LD and 21.5 ± 9 in SD, while wild-type siliques produced 62.2 ± 0.8 and 55.7 ± 2.2 in LD and SD, respectively (Table I). The partial reduction in fertility observed in sef plants may be a consequence of the small amount of pollen grains produced by stamens, especially under SD conditions. Otherwise, it could be due to reduction in stamen height. [[FIGURE]] Phenotypic characteristics of sef-2 mutant flowers Altogether, the phenotype of sef plants was strikingly similar to that of the pie1 and arp6 mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; and see below). To explore the role of SEF in the transition from vegetative to reproductive development, we determined the flowering time of wild-type and mutant plants both under SD and LD conditions. Because pie1 mutants display similar morphological alterations to sef mutants and pie1 plants show an early flowering phenotype, we have also determined the flowering time of a pie1-5 mutant for comparison. Flowering time was recorded as the number of rosette leaves at the time of bolting. As shown in Table II and Figure 3, A and B , sef mutants flowered with fewer leaves and earlier than the wild type. Thus, sef plants flowered in LD with approximately six leaves, while wild-type plants flowered with about 12 leaves. Under SD conditions, sef plants flowered with around 21 leaves, whereas the wild type flowered with 62 leaves, approximately. pie1-5 plants flowered at a similar time and with a similar number of leaves to sef plants. Both sef and pie1-5 plants flowered earlier under LD than under SD conditions, indicating that they retained some sensitivity to photoperiod. Bolting time of wild-type and sef/pie1 mutant plantsa [[FIGURE]] We then investigated changes in gene expression that might be responsible for the early flowering phenotype of the sef mutant. Transcript levels were determined by semiquantitative RT-PCR. Analyses were performed on 10- and 12-d-old or 12- and 15-d-old seedlings for LD or SD conditions, respectively. Transcript levels of the photoperiod pathway gene CONSTANS (CO; CITATION), the floral repressor FLC (CITATION), and the flowering integrators FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) and SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CO 1 (SOC1; CITATION) were determined. As a control, we also analyzed transcript levels in pie1-5 plants. As shown in Figure 3C, levels of the CO transcript were not significantly altered in the sef-2 or pie1-5 mutants. In contrast, FLC transcript levels in sef-2 plants were reduced compared to wild-type plants. For instance, a 10- to 25-fold reduction was observed under SD conditions. It has been shown that the flowering positive regulators FT and SOC1 are negatively controlled by FLC (CITATION; CITATION). As expected, reduced levels of the FLC transcript correlated with an increase in transcript levels of these two genes under both SD and LD conditions. A similar, although more severe, deregulation of FLC, FT, and SOC1 was also observed in pie1-5 plants (Fig. 3C; CITATION). Analogous deregulation of these three genes has also been shown in arp6 mutant plants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). It has been reported that several FLC paralogs of the MADS-AFFECTING FLOWERING (MAF) gene family act as flowering repressors (CITATION). Several members of this gene family are down-regulated in arp6 plants (CITATION; CITATION). Figure 3C shows that expression of the MAF4 gene was also severely reduced in sef and pie1-5 plants. MAF1, MAF2, and MAF3 transcript levels were not altered in the mutant strains. Interestingly, MAF5 mRNA levels were strongly reduced in pie1-5 but not in sef plants (Fig. 3C), indicating that not all genes deregulated in the pie1-5 mutant were also affected in the sef background. Our data indicate that the sef mutant displays a number of phenotypic characteristics similar to those of pie1 plants (CITATION). One possibility is that SEF and PIE1 belong to different parallel pathways controlling similar processes; in contrast, SEF and PIE1 may act in the same pathway. To further investigate this aspect, we generated sef-2 pie1-5 double mutants. As shown in Figure 4, A to D , sef-2−/− pie1-5−/− plants were indistinguishable from pie1-5−/− plants, suggesting that SEF and PIE1 act in the same pathway. Time of flowering of sef-2−/− pie1-5−/− double mutants was also identical to that of pie1-5−/− plants (Table II). Interestingly, double heterozygous sef-2+/− pie1-5+/− plants presented similar alterations to those observed in the sef-2−/− mutants and never observed in the single heterozygous plants, such as shortened inflorescence internodes, flowers with five stamens, and a reduction in flowering time (Fig. 4, E–F; Table II; data not shown). These results suggest that the haploinsufficiency of PIE1 behaves as an enhancer mutation of the sef-2+/− phenotype. [[FIGURE]] Taken together, the above results suggest that SEF and PIE1 might act in the same genetic pathway or form part of the same molecular complex. Therefore, we decided to investigate whether these proteins physically interacted. Given that mutations in SEF provoke similar phenotypes to those in PIE1 or ARP6, and ARP6 has been proposed to associate with PIE1 in a SWC/SRCAP-like complex in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we also analyzed interaction with ARP6. To this end, we performed in vitro pull-down experiments using glutathione S-transferase (GST)-SEF and GST-ARP6 recombinant proteins and two in vitro-translated PIE1 truncated polypeptides. As shown in Figure 5A , both GST-SEF and GST-ARP6 proteins were able to interact with PIE522–1190 and PIE1813–1099 proteins, suggesting that SEF and ARP6 proteins interact with the region comprised between the SNF2_N (pfam00176) and the HELICc (pfam00271) domains of PIE1. This is consistent with previous results from yeast in which deletion of a region between the SNF2_N and the HELICc domains of Swr1 resulted in loss of several subunits from the complex, including Arp6 and Swc6, the yeast homologs of the ARP6 and SEF proteins, respectively (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Then, we analyzed the SEF-ARP6 interaction. Figure 5B shows that a GST-SEF recombinant protein interacted with a HA-tagged ARP6 protein. To further confirm this interaction, we turned to the two-hybrid analysis. Full-length SEF protein was expressed as a bait in a fusion with the GAL4 DNA binding domain (GBD) and full-length ARP6 protein as the prey, fused to the GAL4 activation domain (GAD). As shown in Figure 5C, yeast cells co-expressing the GAD-ARP6 and GBD-SEF fusion proteins were able to grow in selective medium without His, due to the activation of the GAL1∷HIS3 reporter gene. Therefore, these results indicate that SEF interacts with ARP6 and that both proteins are also able to interact with PIE1.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) wild type and mutants (Columbia ecotype) were grown in LD (16 h light/8 h dark) or SD (10 h light/14 h dark) conditions (130 μE m−2 s−1) at 23°C (day)/20°C (night) and 70% relative humidity. The T-DNA insertion mutant SALK_096434 was obtained from the SALK collection (http://signal.salk.edu/; CITATION). It consisted of a T-DNA insertion at exon 9 of the PIE1 gene. RT-PCR analysis confirmed the lack of wild-type pie1 mRNA in the homozygous line. As other pie1 mutant alleles have already been described (CITATION), we named this new allele pie1-5. The T-DNA insertion mutants sef-1 (SAIL_536_A05) and sef-2 (SAIL_1142_C03) were obtained from the Syngenta Arabidopsis Insertion Library. Lines were genotyped by PCR. DNA for PCR was extracted from leaves as previously described (CITATION). Two specific primers or one specific primer and a T-DNA left border A (LBA) primer were used for amplification of wild-type or T-DNA insertion alleles, respectively (LBA SALK, 5′-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG-3′; LBA SAIL, 5′-TTCATAACCAATCTCGATACAC-3′). T-DNA borders were determined by sequencing PCR products obtained with T-DNA border primers and gene-specific primers. Mutant lines were backcrossed twice to wild-type Columbia before analysis of phenotypes. The double mutant sef-2 pie1-5 was generated by pollinating sef-2 flowers with pollen from pie1-5 plants. RNA was isolated using the RNeasy Plant Mini kit (Qiagen). cDNA was synthesized from 5 μg of total RNA with the SuperScript First-Strand Synthesis system for RT-PCR (Invitrogen). One-tenth of the reaction was used for PCR amplification with specific primers spanning an intron to control for DNA contamination. Fifteen to 25 cycles were typically used, and products were detected by Southern blot. Number of cycles was set up for each experiment to keep amplification within the quantitative range. For quantification of radioactive areas, an InstantImager Electronic Autoradiography apparatus (Packard Instrument) was used. Specific primers for SEF, CO, FT, SOC1, FLC, GAPC (glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase), and MAF1-MAF5 are described in Supplemental Table S1. Yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid interaction analyses were conducted in the MaV203 strain with the PROQUEST two-hybrid system (Invitrogen). pDBLeu or pPC86 vectors were used for GBD or GAD fusion constructs, respectively. cDNAs for SEF, ARP6, and PIE1 were obtained by standard PCR techniques and cloned into the SalI-NotI sites of the above vectors. Selection was performed on synthetic complete (SC) minimal medium without His, Leu, and Trp (Bio101 Systems), supplemented with 10 to 50 mm 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole. All expression constructs were prepared in the pGEX-6P-3 vector (Amersham Biosciences). Standard PCR techniques were used for HA tagging of ARP6. Constructs were expressed in Escherichia coli DH5α. Proteins were purified on gluthatione 4B Sepharose beads (Amersham Biosciences) and kept on beads as GST fusions or excised from GST by using PreScission Protease (Amersham Biosciences). In vitro transcription/translation reactions were performed with the TNT Quick Coupled Transcription/Translation system (Promega) in the presence of 35S-methionine (Amersham Biosciences). For pull-down assays, 500 ng of GST or GST-fusion proteins bound to beads were incubated in 200 μL of buffer 1 (20 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.0, 100 mm NaCl, 1 mm EDTA, 10% glycerol, 0.01% Nonidet P-40) with 1 μg of purified protein or 5 μL of the TNT reaction and rinsed with buffer 1 and buffer 1 supplemented with 500 mm NaCl. Samples were boiled in the presence of Laemmli buffer and analyzed by SDS-PAGE. Rat anti-HA antibodies (Roche) were used for detection of HA-ARP6. Anthers were teased apart and incubated overnight at 4°C in coloration buffer. Coloration buffer contained equal volumes of extraction buffer (0.1% Nonidet P40, 10% dimethyl sulfoxide, 5 mm EGTA, pH 7.5, 50 mm PIPES, pH 6.9, and DAPI solution (1 mg DAPI/mL dimethyl sulfoxide). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers AY279398 (PIE1), NM_123064 (SEF), and NM_114070 (ARP6). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Alignment of SEF-related proteins. Supplemental Table S1. Primers used in gene expression analysis.
