!~ABS~! Heterologous expression of plant genes in yeast and animal cells represents a common approach to study plant ion channels. When expressed in Xenopus oocytes and COS cells the Arabidopsis Shaker-like K+ channel, AKT2 forms a weakly voltage-dependent channel, blocked by Ca2+ and protons. Channels with these characteristics, however, were not found in AKT2-expressing Arabidopsis cell types. To understand this phenomenon, we employed Agrobacterium-mediated transient transformation to functionally characterise Arabidopsis thaliana channels in Nicotiana benthamiana mesophyll cells. In this expression system we used AtTPK4 as a control for voltage-independent A. thaliana channels. Agrobacteria harbouring GFP-tagged constructs with the coding sequences of AKT2 and AtTPK4 were infiltrated into intact tobacco leaves. With quantitative RT-PCR analyses channel transcripts of AKT2 and AtTPK4 were determined in transformed leaves. These results were confirmed by Western blots with V5 epitope-tagged AKT2 and AtTPK4 proteins, showing that the channel protein was indeed synthesised. For functional analysis of these channels, mesophyll protoplasts were isolated from infiltrated leaf sections. Patch-clamp studies revealed that AKT2 channels in mesophyll protoplasts retained Ca2+ and pH sensitivity, characteristics of the heterologously expressed protein, but displayed pronounced differences in voltage-dependence and kinetics. AKT2-transformed mesophyll cells, displayed inward-rectifying, rather than voltage-independent K+ channels, initially characterised in AKT2-expressing animal cells. In contrast, AtTPK4 showed the same electrophysiological characteristics both, in oocytes and plant cells. Our data suggest that heterologous systems do not always possess all regulatory components for functional expression of plant channels. Therefore, transient expression of plant proteins in planta provides an additional research tool for rapid biophysical analysis of plant ion channels.
!~RES~! To demonstrate that transient expression of plant channels in plant cells represents an alternative to yeast and animal expression systems, different T-DNA constructs were generated, containing the coding sequences for mGFP4, AtTPK4::mGFP4, AtTPK4::V5, AKT2::mGFP4 or AKT2::V5 under control of a 2x35S promoter. A. tumefaciens strains carrying the appropriate plasmid were infiltrated into the intercellular space of N. benthamiana leaves together with the Agrobacterium strain GV3101, encoding the soil-borne wheat mosaic virus 19 K gene. The latter is suggested to suppress posttranscriptional gene silencing. Three to four days after agroinfiltration with the different mGFP4-marked constructs, tobacco leaves (Fig. 1a) and mesophyll protoplasts (Fig. 1b) were subjected to confocal laser scanning microscopy to identify transformed cells (Fig. 1c, e, g) and fluorescing protoplasts thereof (Fig. 1d, f, h). GFP fluorescence was observed in almost all epidermal cells (80–90%) and in 20–50% of mesophyll cells within the infiltrated leaf region. [[FIGURE]]  In order to analyse the abundance of AtTPK4 and AKT2 transcripts in transformed cells, we performed quantitative RT-PCR on mRNA, isolated from infiltrated tobacco leaves. AtTPK4::V5-transformed cells expressed up to 500,000 AtTPK4-mRNA molecules per 10,000 molecules of actin-mRNA (Fig. 2a). In AtTPK4::mGFP4 transformed leaves the abundance of AtTPK4-transcripts was 5 times lower, but still high when compared to 250 AtTPK4-mRNA molecules in Arabidopsis pollen (Becker et al. CITATION). No AtTPK4 transcripts were measured in tobacco leaves expressing GFP only (Fig. 2a). The AKT2-transcript level (∼5000 / 10.000 actin) in AKT2::V5 transformed tobacco leaves was much lower than that of TPK4, but approximately 10 times higher compared to the natural expression level in Arabidopsis leaves of non-flowering (nf) or flowering (f) plants (Fig. 2a). [[FIGURE]]  To test if the massive transient expression of AtTPK4 or AKT2 affects the transcription of endogenous channels in tobacco leaves, we determined transcript abundance of TORK1 and TORK2, two outward rectifying K+ channels expressed in N. benthamiana mesophyll cells (unpublished data). The transcription level of TORK1 and TORK2 were not reduced by the transient expression of either mGFP4 or AtTPK4::V5. However, the amount of TORK1 transcripts was higher in AtTPK4::mGFP4 or AKT2::mGFP4-transformed leaves (Fig. 2b). To demonstrate that transient expression of the AKT2 and AtTPK4 genes results in synthesis of the respective channel proteins, we infiltrated tobacco leaves with an Agrobacterium strain, carrying a V5 epitope-tagged AKT2 or AtTPK4 construct. Protein extracts from leaves transformed with T-DNAs encoding mGFP4, AtTPK4::V5, or AKT2::V5 were separated by SDS–PAGE and subjected to immunoblot analysis with mouse anti-V5 monoclonal antibodies. A chemiluminescent signal was associated with the binding of antibodies to the V5-tag of the expressed AKT2 or AtTPK4 proteins. In the AtTPK4::V5-transformed sample the ∼34 kDa AtTPK4 and in AKT::V5-transformed leaves the ∼97 kDa AKT2 proteins were detected. GFP-protein lacking a tag, however, did not bind the antibody against V5 (Fig. 2c). These data demonstrate that Agrobacterium-mediated transient transformation of tobacco cells with AKT2 or AtTPK4 results in transcription of these genes and synthesis of channel proteins. But does it result in functional K+ transport proteins in the plasma membrane of tobacco cells? To gain insights into the biophysical properties of AKT2 in tobacco mesophyll cells, we performed patch-clamp studies on protoplasts expressing AKT2::mGFP4 or mGFP4 under control of a 2x35S promoter, subcloned into the binary vector pART27. Protoplasts were isolated from N. benthamiana leaf sections 3–4 days after agroinfiltration (Fig. 1c). Protoplasts of leaf discs with removed epidermis were transferred to the recording chamber and those displaying GFP fluorescence (Fig. 1d) were selected for patch-clamp measurements. In the whole-cell configuration voltage pulses were applied from a holding potential of −48 mV in 20 mV steps in the range from +52 to −188 mV. In solutions containing 30 mM K+ in the bath (extracellular side) and 150 K+ in the pipette (cytoplasmic side), mGFP4-expressing (control) protoplasts were characterised by slowly-activating outward currents, elicited by voltages positive to −28 mV (Fig. 3a, c, open symbols). No macroscopic inward currents were recorded in these protoplasts at hyperpolarized voltages as negative as −188 mV. Similar electrical characteristics were found in non-transfected mesophyll cells (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  Under identical experimental conditions in AKT2::mGFP4-transformed protoplasts voltages positive of −28 mV activated outward currents, which were similar to those recorded of non-transformed and mGFP4-transformed mesophyll cells (Fig. 3a–c). Hyperpolarizing pulses negative of −88 mV, however, elicited time- and voltage-dependent inward currents (Fig. 3b, c, closed symbols). A half-activation time (t 1/2) of inward currents at the membrane voltage of −188 mV was 436 ± 43 ms (Fig. 3b, d, lower trace). When in double-pulse voltage protocol membrane potential was changed from −188 to −88 mV, slow exponential deactivation currents with τ∼150-190 ms were recorded (Fig. 3d, lower trace). AKT2 currents in mesophyll cells were different from those measured in AKT2-expressing Xenopus oocytes and COS. In these expression backgrounds, AKT2 was conducting both inward and outward K+ currents. Currents were composed of fast (instantaneous) and slow (time-dependent) components which superimpose at negative voltages (Dreyer et al. CITATION; Geiger et al. CITATION; Ivashikina et al. CITATION). Since in animal cells AKT2 displayed pronounced sensitivity towards extracellular Ca2+ and H+ (Ivashikina et al. CITATION), we studied the effect of these ions on the properties of AKT2-expressing tobacco protoplasts. Slowly-activating inward currents in AKT2-expressing mesophyll cells were characterised by a pronounced voltage-dependent block imposed by extracellular Ca2+. In a double-pulse voltage protocol applied in the presence of 0.01 mM Ca2+, voltage steps from −188 mV to −88 mV induced a rapid drop in inward current with subsequent slow deactivation, resulting from channel closure (Fig. 3d, lower traces). When the same protocol was applied in the presence of 20 mM extracellular Ca2+, an increase in inward current was not observed at −188 mV. Voltage steps to −88 mV, however, elicited a rapid rise in tail current due to channel unblock, followed by a slow deactivation phase (Fig. 3e, lower trace). These experiments demonstrate that AKT2 channels are almost completely blocked by 20 mM Ca2+ at hyperpolarizing voltages in the presence of 30 mM K+. To study the Ca2+-induced block in more detail, we analysed the voltage dependence of AKT2 currents in the presence of 0.01, 1 and 20 mM Ca2+ in external solution (Fig. 3f). When the external solution was changed from 0.01 to 1 mM Ca2+, no increase in inward current was recorded negative to −148 mV, indicating that binding of Ca2+ within the permeation pathway for K+ ions counteracts the increase in K+ current (Fig. 3f, open squares). In a 20 mM Ca2+-containing bath solution inward currents were blocked already at −108 mV (Fig. 3f, open circles). Pronounced sensitivity of AKT2 and AKT3 to extracellular Ca2+ was described in Xenopus oocytes and HEK293 cells (Marten et al. CITATION; Ivashikina et al. CITATION). In contrast to AKT2, the heterologously expressed inward rectifiers KAT1 and KAT2 appear Ca2+-insensitive (Ivashikina et al. CITATION). In agreement with previous data on animal cells and in line with K+-selective channels, AKT2 currents in mesophyll protoplasts were blocked by 1 mM Cs+ (Fig. 3f, Marten et al. CITATION). It should be mentioned that in Xenopus oocytes Cs+ blocked both leak-like and voltage-dependent AKT2 currents. Since in our experiments this blocker abolished the voltage-dependent current only (Fig. 3f), we concluded that small background instantaneous currents in mesophyll protoplasts are not mediated by K+-selective channels. To examine the effect of H+ on AKT2 currents, the pH of the external solution was lowered from 7.4 to 5.6. This increase in H+ concentration resulted in 80% reduction in inward current at −168 mV (Fig. 3g). Note that outward currents were only slightly affected by a change in pH. Extracellular acidification was shown to reduce AKT2 and AKT3 currents in Xenopus oocytes and COS cells (Marten et al. CITATION; Geiger et al. CITATION). Two amino acid residues within the outer mouth of the K+-conducting pore were shown to determine the pH sensitivity of AKT3 (Geiger et al. CITATION). Our data indicate, that although AKT2 in planta displays differences in gating behaviour, it retains the Ca2+ and pH sensitive features of those expressed in animal cells. Because of the pronounced differences between AKT2 recorded in plant and animal expression systems, we also examined AtTPK4, another Arabidopsis K+ channel in tobacco mesophyll cells. This channel was recently characterised in Xenopus oocytes as K+-selective, pH- and Ca2+-sensitive open rectifier, mediating both inward and outward K+ currents (Becker et al. CITATION). In contrast to control (mGFP4-transformed) protoplasts characterised by outward currents only (Fig. 4a), AtTPK4::mGFP4-expressing cells displayed instantaneous currents at both positive and negative voltages, superimposed on slowly-activating intrinsic outward currents (Fig. 4b). In the presence of 30 mM Ca2+ in the bath, instantaneous currents were blocked in a voltage-dependent manner at potentials negative to −88 mV (Fig. 4b–e). This voltage-dependent decrease of instantaneous current and rise in electrical noise at negative potentials (Fig. 4b) point to the nature of a large conductance ion channel interacting with a blocker. To compare the gating parameters of AtTPK4 in mesophyll cells with those in Xenopus oocytes and yeast (Becker et al. CITATION), we sampled instantaneous current amplitudes at the beginning of a voltage pulse (to eliminate time-dependent outward rectifier) and plotted them as a function of the membrane voltage (Fig. 4c, closed symbols). At potentials positive to −20 mV instantaneous currents tended to rectify, similar to those recorded in AtTPK4-expressing Xenopus oocytes and yeast (Becker et al. CITATION). In mesophyll cells, however, this rectification vanished within the time course of ∼10 min, indicating a loss of channel gating due to wash-out of cytoplasmic factors into the patch pipette. At voltages negative to −88 mV AtTPK4 currents decreased because of voltage-dependent Ca2+ block. (Fig. 4c, closed symbols and Fig. 4d, e, open circles). Upon lowering the external Ca2+ concentration to 0.1 mM the current-voltage relationship became almost linear due to channel unblock (Fig. 4d, closed circles). Similar to the heterologously expressed channel, AtTPK4 in mesophyll cells was blocked in the presence of the potassium channel blocker Cs+ (Fig. 4d, filled triangles). Note that Cs+ did not inhibit outward AtTPK4 currents. Upon replacement of K+ by Na+ in the bath solution inward currents disappeared (Fig. 4e), indicating that AtTPK4 does not allow entry of Na+ into the cell. At the same time outward currents, corresponding to K+ efflux via AtTPK4, activated positive to −80 mV (Fig. 4e, closed symbols). In the cell-attached configuration with AtTPK4-expressing mesophyll protoplasts we recorded fluctuations of single channels with a conductance of ∼44 pS ± 3 (Fig. 4f), which were lacking in control cells (data not shown).These data demonstrate that in mesophyll cells, similar to Xenopus oocytes and yeast, AtTPK4 represents a K+-selective open rectifier of large conductance, blocked by Ca2+ and Cs+. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~!  Nicotiana benthamiana plants, supplied by Karl Oparka (Scottish Crop Research Institute, Dundee, UK), were grown in soil in a growth chamber at 16/8 h day/night regime, 26/22°C day/night temperature and a photon flux density of 600 μmol m−2 s−1. Fully developed young leaves of 4–6 week-old plants were used for transient transformation and protoplast isolation. The vector pPily carrying the AKT2::mGFP4 insert under the control of a 2x35S promoter was used to subclone the 2x35S AKT2::mGFP4 cassette into the binary vector pART27. As a control 2x35S mGFP4 was transferred into pART27 as well. Using the Gateway® cloning reaction the coding sequences of AKT2::V5, mGFP4, AtTPK4::mGFP4 or AtTPK4::V5 were cloned into the entry vector pENTR-MCS in such a way that the gene of interest was flanked by both, attL1 and attL2 sites. According to the manufacturer’s instructions (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, USA) LR clonase reactions were carried out to transfer DNA fragments from entry clones into the binary destination vector pMDC32 by recombination. The final binary plasmids were used to transform competent A. tumefaciens strain LBA4404 by electroporation.  Nicotiana benthamiana mesophyll cells were transformed using the agroinfiltration method, essentially described by Romeis et al. (CITATION and references therein). A. tumefaciens, strain LBA4404, harbouring the appropriate plasmid, and the GV3101 strain carrying the coding sequence for the soil-borne wheat mosaic virus 19 K gene were used for transient transformation of tobacco leaves. Both strains carried the virulence helper plasmid pCH32. Agrobacterium strains were grown at 28°C in 15 ml YEP-Medium, containing 0.5% Trypton, 0.5% yeast extract, 0.5% sucrose, 50 mM MgSO4 and 50 mg ml−1 kanamycin. Agrobacterium cultures were brought to an optical density (OD 600) of 0.5 to avoid toxicity. Bacteria were sedimented by centrifugation at 5,000 g for 10 min at room temperature and resuspended in 5 ml Agromix buffer, containing 10 mM Mes (pH 5.8), 10 mM MgCl2 and 150 μM acetosyringone. Cells were incubated in Agromix buffer for 2 h in the dark. Before infiltration 1 ml of the Agrobacterium carrying the 19 K gene was resuspended with 5 ml of Agrobacterium carrying the appropriate plasmid, and the final volume was adjusted to 15 ml with Agromix buffer. Bacteria were infiltrated into the abaxial air spaces of N. benthamiana leaves with a needleless syringe, thereby flooding the apoplastic space. RNA of N. benthamiana leaves was isolated using the Plant RNeasy extraction kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). Remaining DNA was digested using RNase–Free DNase (Amersham, Freiburg, Germany) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. First-strand cDNA was prepared using the M-MLV-RT kit (Promega, Mannheim, Germany) and diluted for quantitative PCR 20-fold in water. Quantitative PCR was performed in a LightCycler (Roche, Mannheim, Germany) with the LightCycler-Fast Start DNA Master SYBR Green I Kit (Roche). Primers used were as follows: AKT2fwd (5′-AAA ATG GCG AAA ACA C-3′) and AKT2rev (5′-CGC TGC TTC ACA TAG AA-3′), TPK4fwd (5′-GCA AGA TAA GGT TAA AGT G-3′) and TPK4rev (5′-CAT GAC AGT AGT ACG AT-3′), TORK1fwd (5′-GGA TCT ACT ACG AAG GC-3′) and TORK1rev (5′-AAA CAC AGT ACA CTT CT-3′), TORK2fwd (5′-CAG AAT TTT CTA CGA GC-3′) and TORK2rev (5′-CTT TCC CTA ACT AAA AAC AG-3′), NtACTfwd (5′-CCC AGA AGT CCT CTT-3′) and NtACTrev (5′-GGG ATG CGA GGA T-3′). All quantifications were normalized to 10,000 molecules of actin cDNA fragments amplified by NtACTfwd and NtACTrev. These N. tabacum fragments are orthologous of the constitutively expressed Arabidopsis actins 2 and 8 (for details see Szyroki et al. CITATION and references therein). PCR products amplified with the primers for NtACT, TORK1 and TORK2, originally designed for N. tabacum templates, were first validated by sequencing in order to verify their ability to amplify transcripts of N. benthamiana. Each transcript was quantified using individual standards. To enable detection of contaminating genomic DNA, PCR was performed with the same RNA as template, which was used for cDNA synthesis. All kits were used according to the manufacturer’s protocols. For extraction of total proteins, tobacco leaves were batch-frozen in liquid N2 and ground into powder. Leaf powder (1 g) was subsequently resuspended in 1 ml of RIPA extraction buffer, containing 1% Triton X100, 0.1% SDS, 2 mM EDTA, 10 mM Na2HPO4 and 10 mM NaH2PO4 (pH 7.2) and a protease inhibitor cocktail (Complete Mini EGTA-free, Roche) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. The extraction mixture was incubated for 1 h at 4°C. To remove insoluble material, the resulting extracts were centrifuged at 15,000 g for 10 min. Total protein extract (30 μg) was loaded on a 12% acrylamide gel, size fractionated, and electrotransferred to PVDF membranes (Amersham). PVDF membranes were incubated for 16 h at 4°C in PBST buffer, containing 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% Tween 20, 40 mM Na2HPO4 and 8 mM NaH2PO4 (pH 7.0) and subsequently incubated with mouse anti-V5 monoclonal antibodies (1:5,000 dilution, Invitrogen) for 1 h at room temperature. Blots were washed in PBST for 10 min and incubated with secondary horseradish peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-mouse antibodies (1:20,000 dilution, Pierce, Rockford, USA) for 1 h at room temperature. Blots were finally washed with PBST four times for 10 min and bound antibodies were detected using Supersignal chemiluminescent substrate (Pierce) and exposure to X-ray film (Kodak–Biomax Light, Rochester, USA). Mesophyll protoplasts were enzymatically isolated from tobacco leaves 3–4 days after agroinfiltration. The enzyme solution contained 0.8% (w/v) cellulase (Onozuka R-10, Yacult Pharmaceutical, Tokyo, Japan), 0.1% pectolyase (Sigma–Aldrich, Taufkirchen, Germany), 0.5% bovine serum albumin, 0.5% polyvenylpyrrolidone, 1 mM CaCl2 and 8 mM Mes/Tris (pH 5.6). Osmolarity of the enzyme solution was adjusted to 400 mosmol kg−1 using D-sorbitol. Leaf discs with removed epidermis were incubated for 30 min in the enzyme solution at room temperature without shaking. Protoplasts released from leaf discs were filtered through a 200 μm nylon mesh and washed twice in 1 mM CaCl2 buffer (osmolarity 400 mosmol kg−1, pH 5.6). The protoplast suspension was stored on ice and aliquots were used for patch-clamp measurements. Patch-clamp recordings were performed in the whole-cell and cell-attached modes using an EPC-7 amplifier (List-Medical–Electronic, Darmstadt, Germany). Data were low-pass-filtered with an eight-pole Bessel filter (CompuMess Electronik GmbH, Garching, Germany) with a cut-off frequency of 2 kHz and sampled at 2.5 times filter frequency. Data were digitised with an ITC-16 interface (Instrutech Corp, Elmont, New York, USA) and analysed using Pulse and PulseFit software (HEKA Elektronik, Lambrecht, Germany) and IGORPro (Wave Metrics Inc, Lake Oswego, Oregon, USA). Patch pipettes were prepared from Kimax-51 glass capillaries (Kimble products, Vineland, NY, USA) and coated with silicone (Sylgard 184 silicone elastomer kit, Dow Corning GmbH, Wiesbaden, Germany). The internal (patch pipette) solution contained 150 mM K-gluconate, 2 mM MgCl2, 10 mM EGTA, 2 mM Mg-ATP and 10 mM Hepes/Tris (pH 7.4). The composition of the external solute (bath) is included in the figure legends. The osmolarity of solutions was adjusted to 400 mosmol kg−1 using D-sorbitol. All chemicals were obtained from Sigma–Aldrich, unless indicated otherwise.
