!~ABS~! In plants one bona fide Gα subunit has been identified, as well as a single Gβ and two Gγ subunits. To study the roles of lipidation motifs in the regulation of subcellular location and heterotrimer formation in living plant cells, GFP-tagged versions of the Arabidopsis thaliana heterotrimeric G protein subunits were constructed. Mutational analysis showed that the Arabidopsis Gα subunit, GPα1, contains two lipidation motifs that were essential for plasma membrane localization. The Arabidopsis Gβ subunit, AGβ1, and the Gγ subunit, AGG1, were dependent upon each other for tethering to the plasma membrane. The second Gγ subunit, AGG2, did not require AGβ1 for localization to the plasma membrane. Like AGG1, AGG2 contains two putative lipidation motifs, both of which were necessary for membrane localization. Interaction between the subunits was studied using fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) imaging by means of fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy (FLIM). The results suggest that AGβ1 and AGG1 or AGβ1 and AGG2 can form heterodimers independent of lipidation. In addition, FLIM-FRET revealed the existence of GPα1-AGβ1-AGG1 heterotrimers at the plasma membrane. Importantly, rendering GPα1 constitutively active did not cause a FRET decrease in the heterotrimer, suggesting no dissociation upon GPα1 activation.
!~RES~! In order to determine the subcellular location of plant heterotrimeric G proteins fluorescent protein-tagged versions of these proteins were prepared. Since N- and C-terminal fusions of mammalian Gα subunits were found to be non-functional (CITATION), yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) (CITATION) was inserted into the Arabidopsis Gα subunit (GPα1). The insertion site was based on the paper by Chen et al. (CITATION), in which they describe a GPα1-GFP fusion protein that accumulates at the nascent cell plate in dividing Arabidopsis cells. Recently, this fusion protein was used to study the interaction of GPα1 with the plastid protein thylakoid formation 1 in Arabidopsis roots (CITATION). Bunemann et al. (CITATION) used a similar insertion site in the αAB-loop of the α-helical domain to obtain a functional mammalian GFP-tagged Gαi. Fig. 1A shows that GPα1-YFP was enriched in the plasma membrane of living cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L.) mesophyll protoplasts. By contrast, unfused YFP was found in the nucleus (N) and in the cytosol, which appears as strands crossing the cell and surrounding the large vacuole (V; Fig. 1E). The N terminus of GPα1 contains the classical myristoylation consensus sequence: MGxxxS (CITATION) that is conserved among Gα subunits in dicots and monocots (CITATION) and can be recognized by NMT. This enzyme catalyzes the transfer of myristoyl (C14:0) from CoA to the primary amino group of glycine-2. Myristoylation most often occurs co-translationally after removal of the initiating methionine by methionine aminopeptidase (MAP) (CITATION). A closer look at the amino acid sequence, MGLLCS, hints at a second possible lipid modification: the cysteine at position 5 might be a target for palmitoylation, which involves the attachment of palmitic acid (C16:0) (CITATION). In order to investigate possible lipidation of G2 and C5, the mutants GPα1(G2A)-YFP and GPα1(C5S)-YFP were analyzed. Fig. 1B,C shows the distribution of the two mutants in cowpea protoplasts, which was strikingly different from the distribution of wild-type GPα1. Interestingly, the location of fluorescence was comparable to that of unfused YFP and the double mutant GPα1(G2A/C5S)-YFP (Fig. 1E and D, respectively), indicating cytoplasmic localization. Next, the difference in diffusion between the wild-type protein, the two single-point mutated proteins and the double mutant was investigated by means of fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) (CITATION). Upon photobleaching of unfused YFP, GPα1(G2A)-YFP, GPα1(C5S)-YFP and GPα1(G2A/C5S)-YFP, we observed a very fast fluorescence recovery, which is typical of fast diffusing cytoplasmic proteins. However, GPα1-YFP diffused significantly slower (Fig. 1F). The diffusion data thus confirm the localization data, showing that only GPα1-YFP was able to bind to the plasma membrane. The Arabidopsis Gβ subunit (AGβ1) and the Arabidopsis Gγ subunits (AGG1 and AGG2) were fused to the C terminus of spectral variants of GFP. The two subunits, AGβ1 and AGG1, both showed a diffuse distribution in the cytoplasm (Fig. 2A and B, respectively). The other Gγ subunit, AGG2, was predominantly located at the plasma membrane (Fig. 2C). Occasionally, Golgi-like structures were observed in the cells expressing AGβ1 and AGG2 (data not shown). In cells expressing AGG1, these structures were more abundant (arrows, Fig. 2B). In order to examine the nature of these structures, YFP-AGG1 was co-transfected with the Golgi-marker sialyltransferase fused to red fluorescent protein (RFP) (CITATION). When the YFP signal (depicted in green) was merged with the RFP signal, the resultant image showed several bright yellow spots (Fig. 2D-F), indicative of a significant co-localization of YFP-AGG1 and ST-RFP. Next, the effect of expression of YFP-AGG1 on the distribution of CFP-AGβ1 was studied. Co-expression of CFP-AGβ1 and YFP-AGG1 showed plasma membrane targeting of both proteins (Fig. 2G,H). AGG2 was equally effective in targeting AGβ1 to the plasma membrane (Fig. S1 in supplementary material). During co-expression studies of AGβ1 and AGG1 we observed improved expression of AGβ1. Therefore, the number of YFP-AGβ1-expressing cells was quantified in the presence and absence of AGG1. We observed an approximate twofold increase in the number of cells expressing YFP-AGβ1 upon co-expression of AGG1, as compared to cells expressing only AGβ1 (Fig. 3; Table 2).   [[TABLE]]   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] In order to investigate the role that C-terminal sequences play in plasma membrane targeting, the AGG2 subunit was mutated by introducing five additional amino acid residues behind its CaaX box, thereby rendering the protein unrecognizable for prenylation enzymes. This mutation, AGG2mut, caused the AGG2 protein to become cytosolic (Fig. 4A). We also mutated the putative palmitoylation site in AGG2 at residue C95 (Table 1), and observed a loss in plasma membrane affinity (Fig. 4B). The prenylation as well as the palmitoylation motif of YFP-AGG2 appeared to be necessary for plasma membrane targeting of the heterodimer, as YFP-AGG2mut and YFP-AGG2(C95S) were found in the cytosol together with AGβ1 (Fig. 4C,D and Fig. S2 in supplementary material, respectively). These observations implicate a direct interaction between AGβ1 and AGG2. Therefore, we analyzed interactions between AGβ1 and AGG1/2 with fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) microscopy. FRET is a quantum-mechanical phenomenon that can be used to measure distances or changes in distance between two fluorescently tagged molecules. FRET can occur at distances <100Å and is characterized by a decrease in the fluorescence intensity and fluorescence lifetime of the donor fluorophore (CITATION). Several techniques are available to measure FRET. Initial experiments using acceptor photobleaching (CITATION) showed an increase in donor fluorescence upon bleaching of the acceptor, suggestive of FRET (data not shown). Since FLIM (fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy) is more suitable for live cell experiments (CITATION) this technique was used to study in detail the existence of a direct interaction between plant Gβ and Gγ subunits. In frequency-domain FLIM, the sample is excited with sinusoidally modulated light. As a consequence, the emitted fluorescence is also sinusoidally modulated at the same frequency, but displays a shift in phase and a reduction in modulation depth, from which a phase lifetime and a modulation lifetime can be measured, respectively. A reduction in lifetime of both YFP-AGG1 and YFP-AGG2 was observed upon co-expression of RFP-AGβ1, which demonstrates the occurrence of FRET and is indicative of the formation of a heterodimer (Table 3). Lifetime data were also obtained for YFP-AGG2mut expressed together with RFP-AGβ1 and again a decrease in lifetime was observed, indicating that AGβ1 interacts with AGG2mut. This suggests that in plants Gβγ dimerization is independent of the lipidation motif of the plant Gγ subunit AGG2.   [[TABLE]]   [[FIGURE]] We studied heterotrimer formation in living plant cells with FLIM-FRET using GPα1-YFP and RFP-AGβ1 in cowpea protoplasts, expressed together with unfused AGG1 in order to assure plasma membrane distribution of the Gβ subunit. The lifetime of GPα1-YFP decreased upon expression with RFP-AGβ1, suggestive of the formation of a heterotrimer (Table 3). Mutation of the glutamine that is present in the switch II of mammalian Gα subunits and small G proteins renders them constitutively active, since they are no longer able to hydrolyze bound GTP molecules and hence are present in the `active' GTP-bound state (CITATION). Remarkably, application of this mutation in GPα1, Q222L, did not change the subcellular location of GPα1(Q222L)-YFP as compared to GPα1-YFP, and FRAP analysis reported similar mobility characteristics (Fig. S3 in supplementary material), whereas GPα1(Q222L) has been shown to change the phenotype in whole plants (CITATION). It is even more remarkable that incorporation of the mutation Q222L did not abolish FRET to RFP-AGβ1, since the lifetime of GPα1(Q222L)-YFP upon expression with RFP-AGβ1 was efficiently quenched (Table 3). These above observations suggest that Gα subunits containing this mutation still reside in the membrane as a heterotrimer with Gβγ. Fig. S4 in supplementary material shows the distribution of the phase lifetimes plotted against the modulation lifetimes obtained for the various combinations. A clear reduction of both phase lifetime and modulation lifetime is observed as compared to the control situation. This results in two significantly different distributions, which is indicative of FRET.   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] To ensure that the FRET observed in the heterotrimer was not due to surface concentration effects, we performed a competition assay. For this we studied the effect of co-expression of unfused AGβ1 on the FRET-efficiency between Gα and Gβ. If the interactions that were described here are specific, the unfused AGβ1 subunit should be able to compete with the RFP-AGβ1 version (CITATION), thereby reducing FRET and increasing the lifetime of YFP towards the values observed for the controls. Indeed, Table 3 shows that unfused AGβ1 increased the lifetime values of both GPα1-YFP and GPα1(Q222L)-YFP. This demonstrates that FRET between GPα1-YFP and RFP-AGβ1 is specific and not due to surface concentration. Because co-expression of unfused AGβ1 increased the lifetime of GPα1-YFP and GPα1(Q222L)-YFP with an equal efficiency, this confirms the notion that also GPα1(Q222L)-YFP is present as a heterotrimer with Gβγ in plants. Additionally, we found that the lifetimes measured for GPα1-YFP did not correlate negatively with the intensity of RFP-AGβ1, which again indicates that the FRET observed is not due to surface concentration effects (data not shown). In order to gain insight into the location of heterotrimer formation, we co-expressed AGβ1 and AGG1 together with the lipidation motif mutants of GPα1. Surprisingly, plasma membrane distribution of GPα1(C5S)-YFP could not be restored (Fig. 5A,B), as was also observed for GPα1(G2A)-YFP (Fig. S5 in supplementary material). Similarly, GPα1 was not able to rescue plasma membrane localization of the AGβ1-AGG2mut heterodimer (Fig. 5C,D). Since the wild-type heterodimer and the GPα1 subunit were able to tether to the plasma membrane in the presence of their nonlipidated interacting partners these results indicate that the heterotrimer is assembled at the plasma membrane.
!~MM~! The pGEM7Zf(+) vector containing the cDNA encoding GPα1 of Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Landsberg erecta (acc. no. M32887) was a kind gift from H. Ma (Penn State University, University Park, PA, USA). The cDNA was cloned into pMON999, making use of PCR with the primers: 5′-GCTCTAGAcaccatgggcttactctgcagtagaa-3′ and 5′-GGAATTCtcataaaaggccagcctccagta-3′, thereby introducing XbaI and EcoRI sites. Plasmid pMON999 is a plant expression vector that contains the enhanced cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter and the NOS terminator (CITATION). A spectral variant of GFP, mVenus (CITATION), was inserted in the NheI site created by means of site-directed mutagenesis (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) in between residue A97 and Q98, thereby changing Q98 to S98 (primer: 5′-caaaggagtttgctAGCaatgaaacagattc-3′). The linker present at the N terminus of YFP is GS, and at the C terminus the linker connecting YFP to GPα1 is GAS. Lipidation mutants were made using PCR with the following primers: 5′-GCTCTAGACACCatgGCTttactctgcagtagaagt-3′ for GPα1(G2A)-YFP and 5′-GCTCTAGACACCatgggcttactcTCTagtagaagtc gacat cat-3′ for GPα1(C5S)-YFP as forward and 5′-GGAATTCtcataaaaggccagcctcc agta-3′ as reverse primer. The cDNA encoding AGβ1 was obtained by PCR on an Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA library in the vector pGAD10 (Clontech, Mountain View, CA, USA). This library was constructed using 3-week-old green vegetative tissue of ecotype Columbia and contains 3 million independent cDNAs. The primers used (forward: 5′-AGATCTTCGatgtctgtctccgagctca-3′; reverse: 5′-GAATTCCGtcaaatcactctcctgtg-3′) introduced the sites BglII and EcoRI. The PCR product was cloned into pECFP(A206K)-C1 (CITATION), pmVenus-C1 or pmStrawberry-C1 (CITATION). mStrawberry, a variant of RFP, was a kind gift from R. Y. Tsien (Howard Hughes Medical Institute, CA, USA). The cassette consisting of FP and AGβ1 (NheI/EcoRI) was cloned into pMON999 by means of XbaI/EcoRI. The cDNA encoding AGG1 was kindly donated by J.,R. Botella (University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia) and cloned into the pmVenus-C1 vector with BglII and EcoRI, using the following primers: 5′-AGATCTTCGatgcgagaggaaactgtgg-3′ as forward and 5′-GAATTCCGtcaaagtattaagcatctgcagcc-3′ as reverse primer. The cassette consisting of FP and AGG1 was cloned into pMON999 as described for AGβ1. Arabidopsis AGG2 was obtained by means of PCR on the cDNA library described above (primers: 5′-AGATCTTCGatggaagcgggtagctcc-3′ and 5′-GAATTCCGtcaaagaatggagcagcc-3′) and cloned similarly as AGG1. One of the PCR products contained a frameshift in the STOP codon causing a larger protein; CSILTEFNHStop instead of CSILStop. This construct was used to investigate the role of prenylation and was named: AGG2mut. mVenus-AGG2(C95S) was made by means of PCR with the following primers: forward 5′-AGATCTTCGatggaagcgggtagctcc-3′ and reverse 5′-GAATTCCGtcaaagaatggagcagccaGatcgttttgcttctttagg-3′. The resulting PCR product was cloned as described above for AGG1. The vector ST-RFP was a kind gift of Joop Vermeer (University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands). All constructs were verified by means of sequencing (BaseClear, Leiden, The Netherlands). Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L.) mesophyll protoplasts were prepared and transfected as described by van Bokhoven et al. (CITATION). After overnight incubation under continuous light, the samples were mounted in eight-well Lab-Tek chambered coverglasses (Nalge Nunc International, Rochester, NY, USA). Plant cells were imaged using a Zeiss LSM 510 confocal laser scanning microscope (Carl-Zeiss GmbH, Germany). The objectives used were either a Zeiss C-A 40×/1.2 W or a Zeiss Plan-A 63×/1.4 oil. Samples were excited with 458, 488, 514 nm argon and/or 568 nm argon/krypton laser lines controlled by an acousto-optical tunable filter. For CFP/YFP/chlorophyll the following settings were used: as primary dichroic mirror, HFT 458/514; as secondary dichroic mirror, NFT 635, thereby splitting the chlorophyll fluorescence from the CFP/YFP fluorescence. The third dichroic mirror, NFT 515, was used to discriminate between CFP and YFP fluorescence. To yield the chlorophyll image the LP 650 filter was used, for CFP the BP 470-500 nm filter was used and for YFP the BP 530-600 nm filter. In order to abolish crosstalk, the images were acquired in the multi-tracking mode, where the 514 nm laser line was coupled to the YFP detection channel and the 458 nm laser line to the CFP/chlorophyll detection channel. For YFP/RFP/chlorophyll the primary, secondary, tertiary A and tertiary B dichroic mirrors were HFT 488/568, NFT 570, NFT 490 and NFT 635, respectively. YFP fluorescence was induced at 488 nm, transmitted by the primary, reflected by the secondary and tertiary A dichroic mirrors and filtered using the BP 505-550 nm filter. RFP fluorescence was induced at 568 nm, transmitted through the primary and secondary dichroic mirrors and reflected by the tertiary B dichroic mirror and additionally filtered through the LP 585-615 filter. Chlorophyll fluorescence was induced at 488 nm, transmitted through the primary, secondary and tertiary B dichroic mirrors and detected after filtering through the LP 650 filter. Again, the images were taken in the multi-tracking mode. The fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) experiments were done using the two laser lines 488 and 514 nm set at maximum output (Acousto Optical Tunable Filter, AOTF, at 100%) to bleach a region of interest at the plasma membrane (with a duration of 400 mseconds), after which the recovery of fluorescence was measured every 250 mseconds with a very low laser output (AOTF at 3%, for which bleaching did not exceed 5-10%) and similar settings as described above. Frequency-domain FLIM measurements were performed using the set-up described by van Munster and Gadella (CITATION). The objective used was a Zeiss plan Neofluar 40× 1.3 NA, oil-immersion objective. Samples were excited by means of a 514 nm Argon laser modulated at 75.1 MHz and a BP 530-560 nm emission filter was used to detect YFP fluorescence. FLIM stacks of 12 phase images permutated in recording order (CITATION) were acquired with an exposure time of 0.4-1.5 seconds each.
