!~ABS~! Aluminum toxicity in acid soils severely limits crop productivity through inhibition of root growth and, consequently, shoot development. Several Arabidopsis mutants were previously identified as having roots with Al hypersensitivity, suggesting that these represent deleterious mutations affecting genes required for either Al tolerance or resistance mechanisms. For this report, the als1-1 mutant was chosen for further characterization. The phenotype of als1-1 is most obviously presented in Al challenged roots, as evidenced by exaggerated root growth inhibition in conjunction with increased expression of Al-responsive genes compared to wt. Using a map-based cloning approach, the als1-1 mutation was isolated and found to represent a deleterious amino acid substitution in a previously uncharacterized half type ABC transporter, At5g39040, which is expressed in a non-Al dependent manner in all organs tested. GUS-dependent analyses revealed that ALS1 expression is primarily localized to the root tip and the vasculature throughout the plant. Concomitant with this, an ALS1: GFP fusion accumulates at the vacuolar membrane of root cells, indicating that ALS1 may be important for intracellular movement of some substrate, possibly chelated Al, as part of a mechanism of Al sequestration.
!~RES~! Several Arabidopsis genes have been identified as being excellent molecular indicators of Al-responsive stress in roots. These include Arabidopsis ALMT1 (Gabrielson et al. CITATION; Hoekenga et al. CITATION), AtBCB (Richards et al. CITATION), and AtprxCb (Richards et al. CITATION), all of which show significant induction following treatment with moderately inhibitory levels of AlCl3 at low pH. In order to further characterize the Al hypersensitivity demonstrated by als1-1, expression patterns of these genes were assessed in Col-0 wt and als1-1 mutant roots prior to and following exposure to 25 μM AlCl3 (pH4.2) in a hydroponic environment, which is a concentration of Al that has only mild effects on Col-0 wt but causes substantial inhibition of als1-1 roots. As shown in Fig. 1, all Al-inducible genes tested were found to be expressed to significantly greater levels in roots of the als1-1 mutant compared to Col-0 wt, which further demonstrates the increased Al sensitivity associated with the als1-1 loss-of-function mutation. Interestingly, both AtALMT1 and AtBCB are genes associated with Al resistance/tolerance, yet increased expression of these in the mutant apparently is not sufficient to overcome the loss of the ALS1-mediated mechanism of Al tolerance since als1 roots are hypersensitive to Al. [[FIGURE]]  The als1-1 mutation was originally localized to the top half of Arabidopsis chromosome 5, with linkage to marker nga129 having been reported (Larsen et al. CITATION). In order to isolate the als1-1 mutation, a map-based cloning approach was initiated. For this approach, a mapping population was generated by crossing als1-1 (Col-0) to Nossen, with this subsequently being screened for F2 progeny that displayed poor root growth in a nutrient gel environment equilibrated with 1.00 mM AlCl3 (pH 4.2). Nossen was chosen for this approach since it has a similar degree of Al sensitivity as Col-0, which was necessary in order to build a bona fide group consisting exclusively of F2 plants homozygous for the als1-1 mutation. Genomic DNA was isolated from leaves of F2 mapping progeny and, as shown in Fig. 2A, these were screened for recombinants at the SSLP markers nga76 and nga129, which were found to flank the als1-1 mutation. Identified recombinants were subsequently analyzed using closer CAPS markers that were previously published or generated for this cloning exercise, with this analysis localizing the als1-1 mutation between the markers RBCS-B and MUL8.8. Examination of this mapping window revealed an uncharacterized ABC transporter, AtTAP2 (At5g39040), which is localized to this region. Since ALS3 was previously found to encode an atypical ABC transporter, it was of interest to determine if ALS1 also represented this type of protein (genbank accession number NM_118677). At5g39040 was subsequently amplified twice from the als1-1 genome, subcloned and sequenced, which revealed a substitution of an A for a G in the mutant compared to Col-0 wt at the beginning of the ninth exon. This type of nucleotide change is consistent with the EMS mutagenesis treatment previously used to generate the als mutations (Larsen et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  In the protein sequence encoded by At5g39040, this nucleotide substitution leads to an amino acid change of lysine to glutamic acid at position 261. Analysis suggests that the ALS1 protein represents a half type ABC transporter that is composed of two distinct domains. The amino terminal domain has at least four transmembrane regions, as predicted by TMHMM (Krogh et al. CITATION), and appears to have a structure typical of the membrane-spanning region of ABC transporters (Fig. 2b). The als1-1 mutation lies between the second and third transmembrane regions in a portion of the protein that is not predicted to be membrane localized. The carboxy terminal domain is hydrophilic in nature with all of the required motifs associated with functional ATPases of ABC transporters. These include, as shown in Fig. 2b, both the Walker A and B motifs, the LSGGQ signature motif, Q loop, and H loop (Davidson and Chen 2004). In order to verify that the mutation identified in At5g39040 was indeed als1-1, a genomic construct consisting of the promoter, 5′-UTR, coding sequence, and 3′-UTR of At5g39040 was introduced into the als1-1 mutant via Agrobacterium mediated transformation. T2 lines that were homozygous for kanamycin resistance were subsequently tested for capability to grow in a nutrient gel environment equilibrated with 1.00 mM AlCl3 (pH 4.2). As shown in Fig. 2c, functional complementation of als1-1 with the genomic construct representing At5g39040 resulted in complete restoration of growth of the als1-1 mutant in the presence of Al. Since it was not clear whether als1-1 represented a severe loss-of-function mutation, it was of interest to examine a T-DNA insertion allele. For this analysis, seeds from the T-DNA line SALK_011884, which has an insertion in the eighth intron near the junction with the ninth exon (Fig. 2b) and will be referred to as als1-2 for the remainder of this report, were obtained and homozygous lines were generated by kanamycin selection and subsequent PCR-based analysis for the presence of the T-DNA insertion. F1 and F2 seeds from a cross of als1-1 × als1-2 had roots with greater than wt Al sensitivity that was nearly identical to the respective mutant parents (data not shown). Seeds from Col-0 wt, als1-1, and als1-2 were subsequently analyzed for their capability for growth in both an AlCl3 soaked nutrient gel environment and an AlCl3 containing hydroponic environment, the latter of which represents treatment of roots with physiologically relevant concentrations of Al. For analysis of growth in hydroponics, the nutrient solution was supplemented with 10 mM Homo-PIPES in order to maintain the pH at or near 4.2, since Arabidopsis roots have a propensity to significantly raise the pH of their environment, which effectively reduces Al toxicity. As shown in panels d, e and f of Fig. 2, there is no discernible difference in the growth capabilities of roots of als1-1 and als1-2 when challenged with Al toxicity. When comparing growth of als1-1 and als1-2 to Col-0 wt, there is a significant to profound increase in Al sensitivity demonstrated by the roots oof both mutants over a broad range of Al concentrations, suggesting that the als1-1 mutation represents a strong loss-of-function allele. Northern analysis was performed in order to determine the organ specific expression patterns for ALS1 and to assess whether this gene is Al inducible. For analysis of spatial localization of expression, tissue representing leaves, stems, and flowers was collected from 4-week-old plants. Root tissue was collected from 7-day-old seedlings grown in a hydroponic environment (pH 4.2). As shown in Fig. 3a, ALS1 is found at comparably moderate levels in all organs tested, suggesting that ALS1 functions throughout the plant. [[FIGURE]]  It was also of interest to examine whether the als1-1 and als1-2 mutations affected transcript abundance. For this analysis, roots of 7-day-old Col-0 wt, als1-1, and als1-2 seedlings grown hydroponically (pH 4.2) were collected for RNA extraction and Northern analysis. As shown in Fig. 3b, the level of the ALS1 transcript was comparable between Col-0 wt and als1-1, suggesting that the als1-1 mutation has no effect on transcript stability or turnover. The level of ALS1 transcript in als1-2 was also not affected compared to Col-0 wt, although there was a significant increase in ALS1 transcript size in the als1-2 mutant. This shift in size suggests that, since the T-DNA insertion occurs in an intron, the insertion in this mutant negatively affects splicing of the ALS1 mRNA in als1-2 and that this may represent a strong loss-of-function allele. To determine if ALS1 expression is Al inducible, 5-day-old hydroponically grown Col-0 wt seedlings were exposed to either no or increasing concentrations of AlCl3 (pH 4.2) for 2 days after which tissue was collected and used for RNA extraction for Northern analysis. As shown in Fig. 3c, there is no apparent increase in ALS1 expression even following treatment with 100 μM AlCl3 (pH 4.2), which, as shown in Fig. 2, is almost completely inhibitory to Col-0 wt root growth in a hydroponic environment. To further refine the pattern of ALS1 expression, a GUS fusion localization approach was taken. For this, the promoter (1,000 bp upstream of the ATG), 5′-UTR, and coding sequence, without the native stop codon, of ALS1 were fused to the coding sequence of β-glucuronidase in pBI101 and introduced into Col-0 wt Arabidopsis plants, after which identified transgenic plants were examined for development of blue color following treatment with X-Gluc. From this analysis it was determined that ALS1:GUS predominantly accumulates in vascular tissue throughout the plant. As shown in Fig. 4, incubation with X-Gluc revealed blue color primarily limited to vascular tissue in roots, leaves, stems and flowers. Cross sections of stained roots showed that GUS activity was restricted to the ground tissue of the stele. Additionally, ALS1:GUS roots demonstrated high GUS activity throughout the distal portion of the root tip, with GUS activity abruptly shifting exclusively to the vasculature near the region that vasculature differentiation initiates in the root. High GUS activity was also detected in leaf hydathodes, including the area surrounding the water pore, along with anther filaments, pistils, and flower receptacles (Fig. 4d and data not shown). Long incubation with X-Gluc gave limited yet detectable GUS activity throughout the leaves and stems, suggesting that ALS1 might be primarily expressed in the vasculature with limited expression in all cell types. In situ hybridization using antisense ALS1 as a probe was not successful. [[FIGURE]]  To identify the membrane to which ALS1 localizes, an approach in which ALS1 was fused to rsGFP was employed. For this analysis, transgenic plants engineered with either Pro ACT2 :GFP or Pro ACT2 :ALS1:GFP, which represents a translational fusion, were generated and roots of homozygous transgenic lines were subsequently analyzed for patterns of rsGFP fluorescence. As shown in Fig. 4e, rsGFP fluorescence was found to be diffusely distributed throughout the examined root cells. In contrast, examination of ALS1:rsGFP transgenic roots revealed GFP fluorescence that was almost exclusively localized to the vacuolar membrane, as shown by fluorescence patterns in which the observed membranes wrapped around respective nuclei in the sample image. This was further evidenced by close examination of fluorescence in conjunction with counterstaining with DAPI, which is a dye that preferentially localizes to nuclei. From this analysis, it was found that ALS1:rsGFP fluorescence was restricted to a tight band that passed around the DAPI stained nucleus in the interior of the cell, which is consistent with vacuolar localization. Since ALS1 is predicted to encode a membrane spanning protein with capacity for solute transport and since it was never assessed whether the als1-1 mutation affected Al accumulation following long term Al exposure, it was of interest to determine if a loss-of-function mutation in ALS1 impacted uptake of Al or a specific nutrient from the growth medium. For these analyses, Col-0 wt and als1-1 seedlings were grown for 6 days in a hydroponic environment (pH 4.2), after which samples were treated for 48 h with either 0 or 25 μM AlCl3. Following treatment, roots from the samples were collected, weighed, ashed, and analyzed using ICP-OES. As shown in Table 1, there were no apparent differences between Col-0 wt and als1-1 roots in accumulated levels of the macro- and micronutrients following growth in the absence of Al. This suggests that ALS1 is not required for facilitating nutrient uptake in Arabidopsis. Treatment with 25 μM AlCl3 also did not result in any measurable difference in the level of total Al in als1-1 roots compared to Col-0 wt, suggesting that the als1-1 mutation does not impact an Al exclusion mechanism. Additionally, treatment with Al did not result in any measurable differences in nutrient uptake when comparing the mutant to the wt (data not shown). Coupled with the sub-cellular localization pattern of ALS1, this suggests that it may function in intracellular redistribution of some as yet unidentified substrate rather than uptake into the root. [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]]
!~MM~! For all seedling growth experiments, Col-0 wt and mutant seeds were surface-sterilized and cold stratified at 4°C for 4 days in the dark for synchronization of germination. Seeds were subsequently suspended in 0.15% (w/v) agarose for sowing on either soaked gel plates or hydroponic plates. For experiments with soaked gel plates seedlings were grown for 7 days on nutrient agar plates (pH 4.2) that were made and equilibrated with AlCl3 as previously described (Gabrielson et al. CITATION). For dose response analysis in a hydroponic environment, nutrient media, supplemented with 10 mM Homo-PIPES, was prepared as previously described (Gabrielson et al. CITATION). Seedlings were grown for 7 days on 250-μm mesh polypropylene screen in 100 × 15 mm X-plate dishes with 40 ml of nutrient medium (pH 4.2) containing varying concentrations of AlCl3. All dose response analyses were performed in a Percival 136LLVL plant growth chamber under a 24 h light cycle at 20°C. All adult plants were grown in soil under a 24 h light cycle at 20°C in a plant growth room supplemented with Sylvania Gro-Lite fluorescent bulbs. For determination of organ specific patterns of ALS1 expression, root tissue was collected from Arabidopsis Col-0 wt seedlings grown for 7 days hydroponically (pH 4.2). Leaves, stems, and flowers were collected from 4-week-old adult Col-0 wt plants grown in the previously described plant growth room. Tissue was harvested and immediately frozen. For AlCl3 treatments, plants were grown hydroponically (pH 4.2) for 5 days after which they were transferred to nutrient media (pH 4.2) containing either no or varying concentrations of AlCl3 for 2 days. Following this, tissue was collected and frozen for RNA isolation. Total RNA was extracted using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA). For all experiments, 10 μg of total RNA were separated by electrophoresis in a 1% (w/v) denaturing agarose gel and subsequently transferred to Zeta-Probe GT blotting membrane (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). 32P-labelled probes were generated using the Prime-a-Gene labeling system (Promega, Madison, WI, USA). Prehybridization and hybridization were both carried out at 42°C and washes were done at 42 and 65°C following the manufacturer’s instructions. Results were visualized by autoradiography. A mapping population was generated from a cross of als1-1 (male, ecotype Col-0) to Nossen wt (female). Seven-day-old F2 seedlings that displayed the als1-1 phenotype, which consisted of severely inhibited root growth following growth on nutrient medium soaked with 1.00 mM AlCl3 (pH 4.2) were isolated and planted in soil for subsequent collection of leaf tissue and isolation of genomic DNA. Genomic DNA was prepared as described (Larsen and Cancel CITATION) and used as a template for PCR-based mapping. To refine the map position of als1, which was previously attributed to chromosome 5 (Larsen et al. CITATION), we utilized either published polymorphic markers or developed novel CAPS markers for this region by generation of primers based on the published Arabidopsis genomic sequence as previously described (Larsen and Cancel CITATION). CAPS markers generated for map-based cloning of als1 were as follows. For the MUL8.8 marker, primers were 5′-GAATGGGTCTCAAGCTCTCACG-3′ and 5′-CTGAAAATGAGGCCTCAAGAGAG-3′. SspI digestion resulted in three DNA fragments for Col-0 and two for Nossen. For the MYH19.18 marker, primers were 5′- CGTCCATATCGACGTTGTGGTCG-3′ and 5′-CCCTTAACCAGACCTCATATCTAC-3′. α-Taq1 digestion resulted in two DNA fragments for Col-0 and one for Nossen. PCR reactions were comprised of 40 cycles of 94°C for 30 s, 55°C for 30 s, and 72°C for 2 min. The PCR reactions were then digested with the appropriate enzyme, and the products were analyzed by electrophoresis through a 2% (w/v) agarose gel. Upon generation of a genetic window of less than 1 cM, candidate genes were identified from the published Arabidopsis genomic sequence. Candidate genes were amplified by PCR with primers designed to the predicted 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions and Pfu Turbo (Stratagene), subcloned into pGemT-easy (Promega), and sequenced by the University of Florida DNA Sequencing Core Laboratory. Sequences were subsequently compared to the published Arabidopsis genomic sequence to identify potential mutations. For functional complementation analysis, a genomic construct representing 1 kB of upstream sequence, 5′-UTR, complete coding sequence, and 3′-UTR for At5g39040 was subcloned into pBI101 that had the GUS coding sequence removed. This construct was introduced into the als1-1 mutant by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and primary transformants were selected by screening for those that were kanamycin resistant. Homozygous T2 plants were subsequently analyzed by growth for 7 days on nutrient agar plates soaked with 1.00 mM AlCl 3 (pH 4.2), after which root length was determined and compared to Col-0 wt and als1-1. GUS analysis was performed by combining a genomic construct representing 1 kB of upstream sequence and the complete coding sequence for ALS1, without the native stop codon, with the β-glucoronidase (GUS) gene in pBI101. This construct was introduced into Col-0 wt by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and kanamycin resistant transformants were selected. For analysis of ALS3:GUS localization in roots, 5-day-old seedlings were examined. For analysis of expression in other tissues, samples were collected from 3-week-old plants grown in the previously mentioned growth room. GUS activity was visualized as previously described (Larsen et al. CITATION). Microscopy was carried out with a Leica DMR differential interference contrast light microscope. For subcellular localization of ALS1, an ALS1:GFP translational fusion was created. For construction of this, the coding sequence of ALS1, without the native stop codon, was combined with 1,200 bp of the ACT2 promoter and the coding sequence of rsGFP in pBI101, without the GUS coding sequence. This Pro ACT2 :ALS1:GFP construct was subsequently transformed into Col-0 wt Arabidopsis, after which kanamycin resistant primary transformants were identified. For analysis of subcellular localization, homozygous T2 lines for Pro ACT2 :ALS1:GFP and Pro ACT2 :GFP were analyzed using a Leica SP2 confocal laser microscope. For localization of nuclei, seedlings were stained with 15 μg/ml DAPI for 30 min prior to visualization. For quantification of total Al in roots and shoots, 6-day-old wt and als1-1 seedlings grown hydroponically were exposed to either no or 25 μM AlCl3 (pH 4.2) for 2 days, after which they were washed with water, harvested, dried, and ashed in pure nitric acid at 110°C. Samples were resuspended in 10 ml of 1% nitric acid and analyzed using a Perkin–Elmer Optima 3000 DV ICP-OES.
