!~ABS~! TPLATE was previously identified as a potential cytokinesis protein targeted to the cell plate. Disruption of TPLATE in Arabidopsis thaliana leads to the production of shriveled pollen unable to germinate. Vesicular compartmentalization of the mature pollen is dramatically altered, and large callose deposits accumulate near the intine cell wall layer. Green fluorescent protein (GFP)–tagged TPLATE expression under the control of the pollen promoter Lat52 complements the phenotype. Downregulation of TPLATE in Arabidopsis seedlings and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 suspension cells results in crooked cell walls and cell plates that fail to insert into the mother wall. Besides accumulating at the cell plate, GFP-fused TPLATE is temporally targeted to a narrow zone at the cell cortex where the cell plate connects to the mother wall. TPLATE-GFP also localizes to subcellular structures that accumulate at the pollen tube exit site in germinating pollen. Ectopic callose depositions observed in mutant pollen also occur in RNA interference plants, suggesting that TPLATE is implicated in cell wall modification. TPLATE contains domains similar to adaptin and β-COP coat proteins. These data suggest that TPLATE functions in vesicle-trafficking events required for site-specific cell wall modifications during pollen germination and for anchoring of the cell plate to the mother wall at the correct cortical position.
!~RES~! A GFP-based screen in BY-2 cells identified TPLATE (clone T22) as a putative cell plate–targeted protein (CITATION). To analyze the relevance of this gene to other species, the occurrence of homologous sequences was determined (Figure 1 ). TPLATE is unique to plant species and occurs as a singleton located on chromosome 3 in Arabidopsis thaliana. There are two copies in rice (Oryza sativa var japonica), one on chromosome 11 (Os11g07470) and one on chromosome 2 (Os2g55010). Arabidopsis TPLATE and the rice homologs exhibit a genomic structure of seven exons and six introns (Figure 2 ). The Arabidopsis TPLATE is ∼70% identical to the rice homologs and 82% identical to a predicted protein sequence from Lotus corniculatus var japonicus (AP004906). A partial EST sequence (translated 160 amino acids) from Physcomitrella patens (BJ187435) is 57% identical (79% similar), indicating that the protein is highly conserved from mosses to higher plants. The TPLATE open reading frame predicts a protein with a molecular mass of 131 kD and contains domains with similarity to an EF-hand motif (IPR002048) and an adaptin_N domain (IPR002553), as identified by standard analysis (www.sanger.ac.uk/cgi-bin/pfam; Figure 2A). The adaptin_N domain is present in the N-terminal part of the large subunits of the AP-1, AP-2, AP-3, and AP-4 adaptor protein complexes and in the β-COP, γ1-COP, and γ2-COP subunits of the COPI protein complex (CITATION). Adaptin protein complexes (AP) and coat protein complexes (COP) are involved in clathrin-coated and non-clathrin-coated vesicle formation (CITATION). Besides an adaptin_N-like domain, TPLATE carries a stretch of 14 amino acids highly conserved in β-coatomer proteins (β-COP). We called this motif the β-COP–specific element (Figure 1). The composition of the motif was determined as [P]L[T]G-[S]-SDP-x-Y-x-E[AY], with x indicating any amino acid and amino acids in brackets partially conserved in the β-COP protein family. The β-COP–specific element is conserved in β-COP proteins across the different genera (Figure 1). The occurrence of a β-COP element and a domain similar to adaptin_N in TPLATE suggests that the TPLATE protein is related to coat proteins. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] TPLATE is interrupted at the third intron by a T-DNA insertion in the Arabidopsis line SALK_003086 (Figure 2A). Sequences adjacent to the insertion site are amplified by PCR with the T-DNA left border primer (LBaI) and primers of neighboring sequences (T22-RP and T22-LP), suggesting that the insertion is an inverted repeat. Determination of the T-DNA–bordering sequences confirmed the presence of two left borders and identified the exact position of the insertion site (Figure 2A). Segregation analysis of heterozygous plants resulted in 50% progeny showing resistance to kanamycin. All kanamycin-resistant plants (n = 30) were heterozygous for the T-DNA insertion. PCR on a population of plants that were grown without selection also yielded the 1:1 segregation ratio (131 heterozygous and 151 wild-type plants; χ2 test for a 1:1 ratio yields 1.42, and χ2 95% interval value is 3.84). Pollination of wild-type plants with pollen from the TPLATE heterozygous mutant resulted solely in kanamycin-sensitive plants (72 plants tested), indicating that the mutation cannot be passed on by the male gametophyte and that the T-DNA insertion in TPLATE affects pollen development or germination. By contrast, the insertion mutation has no discernible effect on the development of the female gametophyte, as seed setting and yield were similar to those of wild-type plants (data not shown). The development of the male gametophyte was analyzed using light and fluorescence microscopy. Pollen produced by a heterozygous tplate mutant plant is shown in Figure 2. Dehiscing anthers were stained with Alexander's stain to discriminate between live and dead pollen. The cytoplasm of viable pollen becomes brightly red, whereas dead pollen is not stained by the dye (CITATION). Two types of pollen grains were observed: wild-type pollen that is oval-shaped, and shriveled, irregularly shaped mutant pollen (Figures 2M and 2N). The ratio between irregular and normal pollen was 1:1 (532 mutant and 526 wild-type grains; χ2 test for a 1:1 ratio yields 0.03, and χ2 95% interval value is 3.84). The cytoplasm of the mutant pollen grains stained red with the Alexander stain, indicating that the pollen is not dead at this stage. Yet, some of the pollen had collapsed and showed a thick layer of translucent deposit against the pollen intine wall (Figure 2N). To determine the developmental stage and nuclear composition of the pollen, dehiscing anthers were stained with 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI). Wild-type (Figure 2J) and mutant (Figure 2K) pollen carried three nuclei, two male gamete nuclei and one vegetative nucleus, indicating that nuclear divisions occurred during pollen development. Observation of earlier stages in pollen development did not reveal morphological differences and tetrads, as ring-vacuolated, bicellular, and early trinucleate pollen appeared as in wild-type plants, suggesting that the mutation affects later stages of pollen maturation (data not shown). To assess the germination capacity of wild-type versus mutant pollen grains, anthers were spread on germination medium and observed after 8 and 16 h of incubation. In a control experiment, 80% of wild-type pollen germinated. Pollen derived from anthers harvested from mutant plants showed a reduction of germination capacity of ∼50%, and none of the shriveled pollen germinated (Figure 2O). The thick deposits at the cell periphery in mutant pollen grains may have prevented germination by changing the structure of the intine wall layer. To determine the structure and composition of the mutant pollen cell wall, sections of plastic-embedded whole-mount anthers were stained with fluorescent cell wall dyes. Propidium iodide (PI) treatment identified three types of pollen grains. Fifty percent of the pollen grains had a normal ellipsoidal morphology and fluoresced homogenously (Figure 2B). The other half of the pollen grains showed random deposits of material that was not stained by PI (Figures 2C and 2D). In severely affected pollen with a shriveled appearance, there was no PI staining (Figure 2E). This type of pollen occurred more frequently in mature anthers and probably represents an end stage in the maturation of the mutant pollen. The deposits were also observed in the representative bright-field images (Figures 2C and 2D). The deposits occurred mostly at the cell periphery; therefore, the intine cell wall composition was analyzed using calcofluor white and aniline blue staining methods. A mixture of aniline blue and calcofluor white distinctively labels callose (yellow fluorescence) and cellulose (blue-green fluorescence), respectively (Figures 2F to 2I) (CITATION). The wild-type intine cell wall was predominantly composed of cellulose and stained brightly blue with calcofluor (Figure 2F). The intine wall from shriveled pollen (Figures 2G to 2I) was fluorescent in the presence of calcofluor white, albeit less pronounced than in wild-type grains. Hardly any aniline blue fluorescence occurred in wild-type pollen (Figure 2F) because very little callose was present in these cells. By contrast, brightly yellow fluorescent spots occurred in mutant pollen (Figures 2G to 2I). To analyze the deposits in more detail, pollen morphology was determined by means of scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The scanning images revealed that the exine layer of mutant pollen is similarly structured as in wild-type pollen (notice that the mutant pollen grain is approximately half the size of the wild-type pollen grain; Figure 2L). Transmission electron microscopic analysis further confirmed that the structure and organization of the exine are normal. Figure 3A shows an overview of an ultrathin section of a mutant and a wild-type pollen grain. Wild-type mature pollen is densely packed with vesicles, endoplasmic reticulum, and Golgi (Figures 3B and 3E). At the periphery, a band of Pb acetate–stained vesicles concentrates adjacent to the intine layer. Closer to the center, there are more electron-dense (dark) vesicles mixed with less numerous (electrolucent) vesicles (Figure 3B). The peripheral vesicles are presumably involved in secreting polysaccharide cell wall components upon germination and subsequent pollen tube growth (CITATION). Mature mutant pollen grains show an altered composition of the pollen cytoplasm with small and large electron-dense bodies (Figures 3B and 3H). The composition of the cytoplasm in not fully matured mutant pollen with less severe morphological deformations shows an intermediate stage with undulations of the plasma membrane (arrows in Figures 3C and 3G). Using a specific antibody directed against callose, strong labeling was detected specifically between the intine cellulose layer and the undulated plasma membrane (Figure 3D), whereas hardly any signal was detected in mature wild-type pollen (Figure 3F). The altered composition of the mature mutant pollen grains compared with wild-type pollen, together with the undulations of the plasma membrane, suggest a defect in the regulation of the plasma membrane surface in the mutant pollen. The failure of mutant TPLATE pollen to germinate is most likely caused by the ectopic callose deposition between the plasma membrane and the intine layer. [[FIGURE]] Because pollen development requires TPLATE, we determined the localization of TPLATE-GFP in germinating pollen. The TPLATE-GFP protein was expressed in pollen from the Lat52 promoter, which is reported to have a pollen-specific expression pattern with only low transcript levels detectable in anther walls and petals (CITATION; CITATION). Transcripts driven by the Lat52 promoter are first detected in spores undergoing pollen mitosis I and then increase substantially in mature pollen. GFP-tagged TPLATE protein expressed from Lat52 complemented the pollen phenotype of the tplate mutant. The ratio of wild-type versus mutant pollen was examined in tplate plants transformed with the Lat52-TPLATE-GFP construct. The plants were heterozygous for both T-DNAs, so complementation of the mutation caused by the insertion of the T-DNA in the TPLATE gene should result in a shift from a 1:1 ratio of wild-type versus mutant pollen to a 3:1 ratio. From 1325 pollen grains counted, 971 had a wild-type appearance and 354 were shriveled. This amounts statistically to the expected 3:1 ratio of two independently segregating insertions (χ2 test for a 3:1 ratio yields 2.08, and χ2 95% interval value is 3.84). The complementation was further substantiated by wild-type Columbia (Col-0) backcrosses. The TPLATE T-DNA insertion was transmitted to the wild-type plants via pollen that invariably also carried the TPLATE-GFP gene. Moreover, using PCR, we identified plants homozygous for the TPLATE T-DNA insertion in the backcrossed offspring (data not shown). We conclude that the GFP-tagged TPLATE protein, expressed by the Lat52 promoter, is functional in pollen. In mature pollen, TPLATE-GFP, expressed from the Lat52 or the endogenous promoter, was cytoplasmic and granular (Figure 4A ). Upon incubation of the pollen in germination medium, TPLATE-GFP accumulated at a distinct area at the cell periphery (Figure 4B). This region corresponds to the position where the pollen tube emerges (Figure 4C). Time-lapse recording further demonstrated that TPLATE-GFP is transported into the growing pollen tube (Figures 4C and 4D). The localization of TPLATE-GFP at the pollen tube exit site and at the tip of the pollen tube supports a role in the control of vesicle fusion. [[FIGURE]] The pollen-maturation phenotype of TPLATE T-DNA insertion plants and the subcellular localization of TPLATE-GFP in pollen suggest that the corresponding gene is activated in developing pollen. We analyzed the expression of TPLATE using a genomic fragment containing the open reading frame and 800 bp upstream of the start codon fused to the β-glucuronidase gene. β-Glucuronidase activity was detected in pollen grains and at the connectivum, where the anther is connected to the filament (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). A thorough study of whole-genome gene expression during different developmental stages of Arabidopsis pollen was performed previously (CITATION). The TPLATE mRNA is expressed in uninucleate microspores and in bicellular and immature tricellular pollen, but it is low-abundant in dried, mature pollen grains. The same study showed that TPLATE expression is not restricted to pollen (CITATION) (see Supplemental Figure 1B online). TPLATE was originally identified through homology with a tobacco BY-2 cDNA-AFLP tag (BSTT43-4-330) with an M-phase–specific upregulation of expression (CITATION; CITATION). We determined TPLATE mRNA levels in Arabidopsis roots by whole-mount in situ hybridization. Transcript was present throughout the root tip meristem, although it was not distributed uniformly. The lowest level of expression was at the very tip end, and a stronger expression occurred near the elongation zone (see Supplemental Figures 1C to 1F online). The TPLATE expression pattern is in agreement with the results of previous digital in situ results (CITATION; www.arexdb.com) and does not match the expression pattern of cell cycle–controlled genes. Thus, Arabidopsis TPLATE is not likely to be cell cycle–controlled. The presence of TPLATE transcripts in somatic tissue suggests a role for TPLATE in somatic processes besides pollen development. Arabidopsis lines homozygous for the TPLATE T-DNA insertion that also carried the complementing Lat52-TPLATE-GFP did not show discernible growth or a morphological phenotype. Because of Lat52-TPLATE-GFP expression in seedlings, as shown by GFP fluorescence and protein gel blot analysis (see Supplemental Figure 2 online), any somatic phenotype is likely to be complemented in the homozygous TPLATE mutant lines by TPLATE-GFP expression. Therefore, we decided to suppress TPLATE activity by posttranscriptional gene silencing. The TPLATE cDNA was expressed from the 35S promoter as a hairpin loop double-stranded RNA in Arabidopsis. Two independent hairpin constructs with different backbones yielded transgenic plants that displayed severe growth defects (Figures 5A and 5B ). The expression of TPLATE in these plants was assessed by RT-PCR. Compared with wild-type plants, TPLATE expression was strongly reduced in the knockdown seedlings (Figure 5C). The mRNA level of a control gene, eIF-4A-1, was not affected, indicating that the growth defect in knockdown seedlings did not influence the expression of this household gene. The knockdown seedlings produced thickened cotyledons with an irregular surface and a reduced number of stomata (Figures 5A and 5B; data not shown). The hypocotyl was approximately twice as thick as wild-type hypocotyls, whereas the root diameter appeared normal (Figures 5I and 5J). Most plants were arrested at an early stage of development, although some of them produced a first set of leaves that did not fully expand and had a vitrified appearance (Figure 5B). [[FIGURE]] At 5 d after germination, mitotic cells were no longer detected by DAPI staining and growth was completely arrested (data not shown). A morphological analysis of PI-stained seedlings revealed the presence of interrupted cell walls and aberrant cell plates in epidermal cotyledon cells (Figure 5H) as well as in other cell types, but these were more difficult to analyze three-dimensionally. Cellulose polymerization defects and weakening of the cell wall frequently go hand in hand with the stimulation of callose synthesis, which, besides its role in pollen development, normally occurs only in wounded tissue and in developing cell plates (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To test the presence of ectopic callose deposition in RNA interference (RNAi) Arabidopsis plants, transgenic material was stained with aniline blue and epifluorescence was imaged. Numerous depositions of ectopic callose were detected in cotyledons (Figure 5F) and in roots (Figure 5K). In wild-type plants, callose is detected in newly formed cell plates and in the junctions of stomatal guard cells (Figures 5G and 5L). In RNAi seedlings, callose depositions were most prominent in root tissue, in particular at the root tip (Figure 5K). The ectopic deposition of callose in silenced plants and cell cultures is indicative of a malfunctioning of cell wall formation or modification. To investigate the growth inhibition and cytokinesis defects observed in Arabidopsis in more detail, TPLATE was silenced in BY-2 tobacco suspension cells using a homologous cDNA-AFLP fragment previously isolated from these cells (tag BSTT43-4-330) (CITATION). The TPLATE RNAi calli grew significantly slower than calli transformed with unrelated constructs (data not shown). In >20 independent transformation events that were analyzed, ∼10% of the BY-2 cells had misplaced cell walls (deviations ≥ 90°) or produced cell walls with severe deformations. Examples of aberrant cross walls are presented in Supplemental Figure 3 online. In addition, we observed that cell plates did not always fuse to the mother wall and produced fuzzy extreme ends. Figure 6 shows a time-lapse recording of a TPLATE RNAi BY-2 cell stained with FM4-64 that failed to anchor its newly formed cell plate. [[FIGURE]] The plate is initially made and expands until it reaches the cortex (Figure 6, image after 62 min) but subsequently fails to insert, even when the cell is followed for >90 min after contact of the cell plate with the cortex. The cell in Figure 6 also shows ectopic growth, which is commonly observed in TPLATE RNAi BY-2 cell lines and may be caused by mistargeting of cell wall–modifying factors, as a result of the reduced activity of TPLATE. The RNAi effects in Arabidopsis and BY-2 cells confirm that TPLATE is required for somatic cytokinesis and anchoring of the cell plate with the mother wall. Root morphology was determined for several RNAi plants (Figures 5D and 5E). The meristematic tissue contained differentiated cells, and root hairs emerged close to the tip (Figure 5D, arrowhead). Figure 7 shows toluidine blue–stained transverse sections of wild-type and TPLATE RNAi root–hypocotyl and hypocotyl sections. [[FIGURE]] Some radial patterning can be observed in the RNAi seedlings, with smaller cells in the vascular bundle surrounded by larger cells of the endodermis, cortex, and epidermis. However, the vascular cylinder in the RNAi plants is severely disorganized, and cortical layers cannot be distinguished clearly (Figure 7B). In all transverse TPLATE RNAi hypocotyl sections examined, the cyan blue coloration typical for toluidine blue–stained wild-type xylem vessel cells (arrows in Figure 7A) was absent, indicating that these seedlings did not produce differentiated xylem elements. Figures 7C and 7D show sections at identical magnifications through the hypocotyl of a wild-type and an RNAi seedling. The central cylinder and cortical layers are present in the RNAi seedling section, although it is difficult to discriminate between the different layers. Incomplete and malformed cell walls are observed in the cortex of RNAi hypocotyls (Figures 7D, inset, and 7E). In addition, there are extra random divisions, predominantly in the vascular tissue (Figure 7D), leading to an increase in hypocotyl diameter. The central cylinder cells are not converted to vascular tissue, as in the wild type. Instead, they differentiate to starch-containing cells, as revealed by Lugol staining (Figure 7F, inset). Starch accumulation inside the vascular bundle was never observed in wild-type hypocotyl sections (data not shown). Therefore, reducing TPLATE expression leads to altered differentiation and extra rounds of cell division, predominantly in the vascular bundle. To investigate the subcellular localization of TPLATE in a tissue context, we analyzed Arabidopsis plants carrying an N- or C-terminally fused TPLATE construct with GFP behind the 35S promoter. Arabidopsis leaves were imaged with the confocal microscope within the first 24 to 36 h after germination, when numerous leaf epidermal cells and root meristematic cells divide (Figure 8 ). [[FIGURE]] GFP fluorescence was observed mainly in the cytoplasm of nondividing cells with both constructs. During cytokinesis, N- and C-terminally fused TPLATE concentrated at the developing cell plate (Figure 8, asterisks). The fusion proteins associated with the newly formed cell plate at an early stage of phragmoplast development (Figures 8C, 8D, and 8I). Upon contact of the cell plate with the mother wall, GFP fluorescence accumulated at the contact site, spreading over a region of ∼5 μm surrounding the insertion site (Figures 8E and 8F, yellow arrowheads, and inset in 8F). The accumulation of TPLATE fused to GFP at the division zone, together with the observation that in RNAi lines cell plates failed to or did not correctly connect to the mother wall, suggest that TPLATE plays a role in anchoring the cell plate to the mother wall.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana SALK_0030086 was obtained from the SALK collection (CITATION). Genomic DNA was extracted, and PCR to identify the insertion was done using the LP and RP primers (5′-CCCTTGGCAATTTTCCTCGAA-3′ and 5′-TGCAAAGTGACCCTTCCATCA-3′) that were recommended by the SIGNaL iSect Tool of The Arabidopsis Information Resource database (www.Arabidopsis.org) in combination with the T-DNA–specific LBa1 primer (5′-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG-3′). Whole-mount anther and seedling sections were prepared according to CITATION. Thin sections (5 μm) were made using a Rotation Microtome 2040 (Leica Microsystems) using glass knives (Leica Microsystems) for transverse sections and Superlap knives (Adamas Instrumenten) for longitudinal anther sections. Transverse sections of roots and hypocotyls were stained with 0.05% toluidine blue O (Sigma-Aldrich) in 0.1 M NaPO4 buffer, pH 7.0, and 1% Lugol solution (Merck) for starch staining. Pollen morphology was analyzed using light microscopy (DMLB; Leica). The pollen was stained with Alexander stain (CITATION), and mutant versus wild-type pollen grains were counted. Germination of pollen grains in vitro was performed as described by CITATION. Anthers were stained with DAPI staining solution (0.1% Nonidet P-40, 10% DMSO, 50 mM PIPES, 5 mM EGTA, and 1 μL of DAPI; 1 mg/mL). PI (Sigma-Aldrich) staining of thin anther sections was done by adding 30 μM PI to the slides and washing them after 5 min of incubation. Aniline blue (0.5% in water; Sigma-Aldrich) and calcofluor white (1% in water, fluorescent brightener 28; Sigma-Aldrich) were added simultaneously to the thin anther sections, and slides were washed after 5 min of incubation. The construct to drive TPLATE-GFP expression under the control of the Lat52 promoter was created using the multisite Gateway system (Invitrogen) (CITATION). pDONRP4-P1R-Lat52, pDONR207-TPLATE, and pDONRP2R-P3-EGFP were used to clone the Lat52 promoter, the TPLATE, and the EGFP open reading frames in pH7m34GW. pLAT52-7 (CITATION) was kindly provided by David Twell and was used for PCR of the Lat52 promoter and cloning in pDONRP4-P1R using the following primer pair: 5′-GGGGACAACTTTGTATAGAAAAGTTGGTCGACATACTCGACTCAGAAGGTAT-3′ and 5′-GGGGACTGCTTTTTTGTACAAACTTGGTGTCTTGTTTTGATTATA-3′. The genomic fragment of the TPLATE gene (5.1 kb) was amplified by PCR using Gateway adapted primers (FW, 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTTTATTGTTCCTCACAGTCATGATATCGC-3′; REV, 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTGTTAACTTTGGTATATTTTCTATCTTTGCAC-3′) and cloned into an adapted version of the pK7GWFS7 plasmid to allow in-frame translational fusion between the TPLATE protein, β-glucuronidase, and EGFP. Expression of the TPLATE messenger was analyzed by β-glucuronidase expression, and the fusion protein was localized by GFP fluorescence using confocal microscopy. 35S-GFP fusion constructs and transformation of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells have been described by CITATION, CITATION). Cotransformations in BY-2 cells were obtained by consecutive transformations. Arabidopsis ecotype Col-0 plants were transformed by Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transfection using the floral dip method (CITATION). Image acquisition was as described by CITATION. PI staining and differential interference contrast images of anther sections were obtained with a 100M confocal microscope with software package LSM510 version 3.2 (Zeiss) equipped with a 63× water-corrected objective (numerical aperture = 1.2) using the settings for RFP excitation and emission (excitation = 543 nm; emission = 560 nm cutoff). Aniline blue, calcofluor, and DAPI staining were imaged using an Axiovert 135M fluorescence microscope equipped with a 63× water-corrected objective (numerical aperture = 1.2) with emission and excitation filters (excitation = 395 nm; emission = 420 nm long pass), and images were taken with an Axiocam camera and Axiovision software version 3.1 (Zeiss). Thin root sections on slides were analyzed by a light microscope (DMLB; Leica) equipped with a 40× objective, and images were taken with an Axiocam camera and Axiovision software version 3.1 (Zeiss). Arabidopsis seedlings were imaged between slide and cover glass. Aniline blue (0.5% in water) and FM4-64 (50 μM; Invitrogen) were added to whole Arabidopsis seedlings and imaged after a 5-min incubation. BY-2 cells were applied to a chambered cover glass system (Lab-Tek). Cells were immobilized in a thin layer of 200 μL of BY-2 medium containing vitamins and 0.8% low-melting-point agar (Invitrogen). FM4-64 (50 μM) and PI (30 μM) were added to 1 mL of liquid BY-2 medium with vitamins, and the drug concentration was adjusted to a final volume of 1.2 mL before addition to the samples. Stock solutions of FM4-64 (5 mM) and PI (1.5 mM) were prepared in nanopure water. Fluorescence intensity graphs were made using the profile program of the LSM software (Zeiss). Pollen expressing Lat52-TPLATE-GFP was analyzed by confocal microscopy on slides coated with germination medium. Plants heterozygous for the T-DNA insertion in TPLATE (SALK_0030086) were transformed with the Lat52-TPLATE-EGFP construct. Seeds were selected on K1 medium (4.308 g/L Murashige and Skoog basal salt mixture; Duchefa), 10 g/L sucrose (Acros Organics), 100 mg/L myo-inositol (Sigma-Aldrich), 0.5 g/L MES (Duchefa), pH 5.7, with KOH, and 8 g/L plant tissue culture agar (International Diagnostics Group) with 15 μg/mL hygromycin B (Duchefa). The presence of the T-DNA was identified by PCR using the RP and LBaI primers. Pollen of T-DNA– and Lat52-TPLATE-GFP–positive plants was used to pollinate Col-0 plants, and transmission of the T-DNA insertion via the parental route was checked by PCR on the offspring plants. For scanning electron microscopy, air-dried pollen was tapped on stubs, sputter-coated with gold, and examined with a scanning microscope (JEOL) under an acceleration voltage of 10 kV. For transmission electron microscopy, tissue samples were immersed in a fixative solution of 2% paraformaldehyde and 2.5% glutaraldehyde and postfixed in 1% OsO4 with 1.5% K3Fe(CN)6 in 0.1 M Na-cacodylate buffer, pH 7.2. Samples were dehydrated through a graded ethanol series, including a bulk staining with 2% uranyl acetate at the 50% ethanol step, followed by embedding in Spurr's resin. Ultrathin sections, made on an Ultracut E microtome (Leica Microsystems), were poststained in an ultrastainer (Leica) with uranyl acetate and lead citrate. Samples were viewed with a 1010 transmission electron microscope (JEOL). For immunoelectron microscopy analysis, root tips of 4-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings (Col-0 ecotype) were excised, immersed in dextran (20%), and frozen immediately in a high-pressure freezer (EM Pact; Leica Microsystems). Freeze substitution was performed in a Leica EM AFS. Over a period of 4 d, root tips were substituted in dry acetone + 0.1% OsO4. Samples were infiltrated at 4°C stepwise in Spurr's resin and embedded in molds. The polymerization was performed at 70°C for 16 h. Ultrathin sections of gold interference color were cut using an ultramicrotome (ultracut E; Reichert-Jung) and collected on formvar copper slot grids. All steps of immunolabeling were performed in a humid chamber at room temperature. Samples were blocked in blocking solution (5% BSA and 1% fish skin gelatin in PBS) for 15 min followed by a wash step for 5 min (1% BSA in PBS). Incubation in a dilution (1% BSA in PBS) of primary antibodies (anti-callose 1:100; Biosupplies Australia) for 60 min was followed by washing four times for 5 min each (0.1% BSA in PBS). The grids were incubated with 10-nm Protein A Gold (Cell Biology, Utrecht University) and washed twice for 5 min each (0.1% BSA in PBS, PBS, and double distilled water). Sections were poststained in a LKB ultrastainer for 30 min in uranyl acetate at 40°C and for 5 min in lead stain at 20°C. Control experiments consisted of treating sections with 10-nm Protein A Gold alone. Grids were viewed with a JEOL 1010 transmission electron microscope operating system at 80 kV. The TPLATE coding sequence was cloned into the pK7GWIWG(II) or pH7GWIWG(II) vector (CITATION) to produce double-stranded RNA, and Arabidopsis Col-0 plants were transformed. Transformed seeds were selected on K1 medium with 25 μg/mL kanamycin A (Duchefa) or 15 μg/mL hygromycin B (Duchefa). BY-2 cells were transformed with the vector pH7GWIWG(II) containing the BSTT43-4-330 tobacco tag (CITATION), and calli were selected on hygromycin B (30 μg/mL; Duchefa). Arabidopsis seedlings were ground, and the RNA was extracted using the RNeasy kit (Qiagen). The RNA concentration was adjusted, and 1 μg of total RNA was used for cDNA amplification (Superscript RNA polymerase III; Invitrogen). PCR was performed using the following primer pairs: for TPLATE amplification, 5′-CGTGTGGATATACGGGTTGGATT-3′ and 5′-CGCCAAAGATCATCATACCC-3′ to amplify a 600-bp band; and for eIF-4A-1 (At3g13920), 5′-ACGGAGACATGGACCAGAAC-3′ and 5′-GCTGAGTTGGGAGATCGAAG-3′ to amplify a 150-bp band. Probe synthesis and whole-mount in situ hybridization were performed as described by CITATION on Arabidopsis Col-0 seedlings and Arabidopsis 35S-TPLATE-GFP–expressing seedlings. The sense and antisense probe mix consisted of a mixture of four separate probes (250, 400, 490, and 600 bp) directed against different positions of the TPLATE messenger. The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifier for TPLATE is At3g01780. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Expression Data of TPLATE. Supplemental Figure 2. Ectopic Expression of Lat52-TPLATE-GFP. Supplemental Figure 3. RNAi Effects in BY-2 Cells. Supplemental Figure 4. Model of TPLATE Function in Pollen Germination and in Somatic Cytokinesis.
