!~ABS~!  The late-flowering phenotype of dominant fwa mutants is caused by hypomethylation in the FWA locus leading to ectopic expression of a homeodomain leucine zipper (HD-ZIP) protein. However, little is known about whether FWA has any role in regulation of flowering and how ectopically expressed FWA delays flowering. Through analysis of FWA expression in wild-type seedlings, it was shown that FWA is not expressed during the vegetative phase. This suggests that FWA has no role in flowering. The previous reports that fwa suppressed the precocious-flowering phenotype of plants overexpressing FLOWERING LOCUS T ( FT ) suggest that the flowering pathway(s) either at and/or downstream of FT is blocked by FWA . Comparison of gene expression profiles in three genetic backgrounds ectopically expressing FWA and their respective wild types failed to detect common changes, ruling out the possibility that FWA acts through transcriptional misregulation. Yeast two-hybrid analysis and in vitro pull-down assay showed that FWA protein can specifically interact with FT protein. The importance of protein interaction with FT in delaying flowering was supported by studies involving N-terminal and C-terminal truncations of FWA. The C-terminal truncation with abolished interaction did not delay flowering when overexpressed, while the N-terminal truncation, which retains interaction, did. Specific interaction of FWA with FT enabled us to use FWA protein as a specific inhibitor of FT protein function. Through tissue-specific ectopic expression of FWA , further support for the shoot apex being the site of action of FT protein was provided. 
!~RES~!  To gain clues to the events downstream of FT that lead to the floral transition, we screened for mutations that suppress the precocious-flowering phenotype of 35S::FT. We isolated plants that flowered later than 35S::FT (a strong line, #11-1) in the M 2 population after ethylmethane sulfonate (EMS) mutagenesis. One of these mutants turned out to be dominant. As expected, this mutation also strongly suppressed the precocious-flowering phenotype of a weak 35S::FT line (#1-5) ( Table 1 ). In the wild-type background without the 35S::FT transgene, the dominant late-flowering phenotype ( Table 1 ) and, interestingly, ectopic expression of FWA were observed ( Fig. 1 A). These results are in agreement with the previous reports that fwa epi-alleles ectopically expressing FWA ( fwa-1 and fwa-2 ) suppress the precocious-flowering phenotype of 35S::FT (Kardailsky et al. CITATION , Kobayashi et al. CITATION ).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  It has been reported that cytosine methylation in two direct repeats in the region of the first two non-coding exons of the FWA gene was greatly reduced in fwa epi-alleles (Soppe et al. CITATION , Cao et al. CITATION ). To confirm that the mutant is a new fwa epi-allele, we analyzed the methylation status of several cytosine residues in the direct repeats by restriction enzyme digestion and DNA gel blot analysis. Genomic DNA was digested with Cfo I, which is sensitive for CpG methylation. In the mutant, three digested fragments were detected due to lack of methylation of the two cytosines in the direct repeats, as in the case of fwa-1 ( Fig. 1 B). Based on these results, we conclude that the plant carries a new epi-allele of FWA , and hereafter refer to it as fwa-101D.  Interestingly, it has been reported that fwa-101D had no effect on the precocious-flowering phenotype caused by overexpression of TSF , the closest homolog of FT in Arabidopsis (Yamaguchi et al. CITATION ). Similarly, fwa-101D did not affect the precocious-flowering phenotype caused by overexpression of CiFT , the Citrus unshiu ortholog of FT (Endo et al. CITATION ), and Heading-date 3a ( Hd3a ), the rice ortholog of FT (Kojima et al. CITATION ) ( Table 2 ). These results indicate that ectopically expressed FWA somehow discriminates FT from its homologs.   It has been reported that dominant fwa epi-mutations and ft loss-of-function mutations share similar genetic interactions with various flowering-related mutations such as lfy, ap1, embryonic flower1 ( emf1 ) and emf2 , or with transgenes such as 35S::LFY and 35S::CO (Ruiz-García et al. CITATION , Haung and Yang CITATION , Nilsson et al. CITATION , Onouchi et al. CITATION ). These reports provide support for the notion that FT function and/or step(s) downstream of FT is compromised in the dominant fwa background. To explore the similarity between fwa epi-mutations and ft loss-of-function mutations further, we investigated the effects of fwa-101D on the flowering time of plants overexpressing SOC1 and AP1 .   Overexpression of SOC1 , either by 35S::SOC1 or by an activation tagged allele, soc1-101D , produces the early-flowering phenotype which is attenuated in short-day conditions (Borner et al. CITATION , Lee et al. CITATION , Samach et al. CITATION ). Similarly, 35S::AP1 plants flower earlier than wild type, and the early-flowering phenotype is greatly attenuated in short-day conditions (Liljegren et al. CITATION ). Attenuation of the early-flowering phenotype in short-day conditions is probably due to reduction of FT expression. Consistent with this finding, ft-1 partially suppresses the early-flowering phenotype of soc1-101D and 35S::AP1 (Yoo et al. CITATION , M. Abe and T. Araki, unpublished observation). fwa-101D partially suppressed the early-flowering phenotype of soc1-101D and 35S::AP1 . Both fwa-101D/FWA+ ; soc1-101D/SOC1+ and fwa-101D/FWA+ ; 35S::AP1/– plants produced a similar number of rosette leaves but approximately twice the number of cauline leaves compared with the wild type ( Table 1 ). These observations provide further evidence that dominant fwa mutations and ft loss-of-function mutations share a similar genetic interaction with flowering-related transgenes.   We examined expression patterns of FWA in fwa-101D and wild-type seedlings by reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) analysis. In fwa-101D , expression was observed in shoot apices, rosette leaves, cotyledons, hypocotyls and roots, while no expression was observed in the wild type ( Fig. 2 A). We further analyzed FWA expression patterns in the shoot apical region of seedlings by in situ RNA hybridization. Strong uniform expression was observed in the shoot apex and leaf primordia in fwa-101D ( Fig. 2 C and D), whereas expression was not detected in the wild type ( Fig. 2 B). These results suggest that FWA is not expressed in the wild-type seedlings. Since a previous report of FWA expression in wild-type seedlings suggested a possible role for FWA in regulation of flowering (Soppe et al. CITATION ), we further examined FWA expression in wild-type seedlings in detail. Recent findings of FWA expression in the endosperm (Kinoshita et al. CITATION ) prompted us to think that the reported expression of FWA in wild-type seedlings was due to mRNA present in endosperm cells in the remnants of seed coats adhering to the seedling. Therefore, we separated the aerial parts of the seedling proper and the seed coat remnants, and analyzed FWA expression in these two fractions. Under our conditions of RT–PCR combined with Southern blot analysis, FWA expression was not detected in the seedling proper from day 2 to day 12 under either long day (LD) or short day (SD) conditions ( Fig. 3 A); however, a faint signal was detected in the seed coat fraction. To confirm further the absence of FWA expression in wild-type seedlings, we examined expression of the β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene under the regulation of a 3.3 kb genomic sequence upstream of the initiation codon ( FWA::GUS ). As previously reported with a similar construct to express FWA protein fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) (Kinoshita et al. CITATION ), strong GUS expression was observed in ovules ( Fig. 3 B, C). In contrast, GUS expression was not detected in seedlings grown in either LD or SD conditions except for occasional faint staining in a small number of cells at the tip of cotyledons in some lines ( Fig. 3 D–I, E inset). Based on these observations, FWA does not appear to be expressed during the seedling stage in wild-type plants.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] FWA encodes a protein of the HD-ZIP IV family of transcription factors (Soppe et al. CITATION , Nakamura et al. CITATION ). Therefore, it is possible that ectopically expressed FWA delays flowering through the transcriptional misregulation of its target genes. Because the fwa mutation does not affect expression of FT ( Fig. 2 A, E, F; Kardailsky et al. CITATION , Kobayashi et al. CITATION ) or TSF (Yamaguchi et al. CITATION ), ectopic FWA expression may affect expression of genes controlling the floral transition other than FT and TSF .   To explore this possibility, we performed microarray analysis using two independent fwa epi-alleles [ fwa-1 in the Landsberg er (L er ) background and fwa-101D in the Columbia (Col) background] and an FWA -overexpressing transgenic line ( 35S::FWA , line #6-8 in the Col background) and looked for common changes. The gene expression profile of fwa-1 was analyzed and compared with its parental wild-type L er , and those of fwa-101D and 35S::FWA were compared with wild-type Col. Several transcripts including that of FWA itself with >4-fold difference in the signal intensity were found for each set of pairs (Supplementary Table S1, Fig. S1). However, none of the known regulators of flowering showed significant differences (Supplementary Table S2, Fig. S2).   Using a 4-fold difference as a criterion, six genes were identified from the comparison between fwa-1 and L er ( Fig. 4 A; Supplementary Table S1). In fwa-101D , 27 genes were up-regulated compared with Col, and one of these (At1g15010) was also up-regulated in fwa-1 ( Fig. 4 A; Supplementary Table S1). In fwa-101D and fwa-1 , many (11 out of 33) of the up-regulated genes were categorized as transposon-like elements (Supplementary Table S1). In 35S::FWA , one gene was up-regulated compared with Col, but it was up-regulated in neither fwa-1 nor fwa-101D ( Fig. 4 A). Five genes were down-regulated in fwa-1 ( Fig. 4 A; Supplementary Table S1). However, there were no common genes whose expression was either increased or decreased in a similar manner in all the three backgrounds with ectopic FWA expression ( fwa-1, fwa-101D and 35S::FWA ) as compared with the wild types. Even if we lowered the threshold to a 2-fold difference, there were no changes common to all the three backgrounds (Supplementary Fig. S3).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  To confirm the microarray data, we performed RT–PCR analysis. We analyzed the genes with >4-fold difference in at least one of the three pairs. Some of the changes were confirmed by RT–PCR analysis (Supplementary Figs. S4, S5). However, we could not find any genes with confirmed changes observed in all the three pairs ( Fig. 4 B).   To gain clues to the molecular basis of the late-flowering phenotype in fwa , we next investigated the possibility of interference with the flowering pathway by misexpressed FWA through protein–protein interaction. Based on genetic analysis, it has been suggested that misexpressed FWA inhibits the pathway at and/or downstream of FT . Therefore, we first examined the interaction between FWA and FT and other regulators acting with and/or downstream of FT using a yeast two-hybrid assay. Because FWA conjugated to the DNA-binding domain of Gal4 (Gal4-BD) alone activated reporter expression ( Fig. 6 A), we used FWA as a prey. Strong interaction between FWA and FT was observed ( Fig. 5 ). In contrast, interaction of FWA with TSF, the closest homolog of FT with a redundant role in flowering (Michaels et al. CITATION , Yamaguchi et al. CITATION ), was very weak ( Fig. 5 A). This finding is in good agreement with the previous observation that fwa-101D had no effect on the precocious-flowering phenotype of 35S::TSF (Yamaguchi et al. CITATION ). Interaction between FWA and TERMINAL FLOWER1 (TFL1), another homolog of FT with an antagonistic role in flowering (Ratcliffe et al. CITATION , Kardailsky et al. CITATION , Kobayashi et al. CITATION , Ahn et al. CITATION ), was not detected ( Fig. 5 B). Since the zipper–loop–zipper (ZLZ) domain of FWA shares homology with the leucine zipper domain of FD (Supplementary Fig. S6) and FD acts with FT to promote floral transition and transcription of AP1 (Abe et al. CITATION , Wigge et al. CITATION ), we also investigated the interaction of FWA with FD or its paralog FDP (At2g17770; Abe et al. CITATION , Wigge et al. CITATION ). FWA did not interact with either FD or FDP ( Fig. 5 B). FWA interacted with FWA itself ( Fig. 6 A), suggesting homodimer formation.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  To identify the domain(s) of FWA protein responsible for interaction with FT, we performed domain analysis. FWA protein has an HD (residues 41–98), a ZLZ (residues 104–165), a StAR-related lipid transfer protein domain (START; residues 216–436) (Ponting and Aravind CITATION , Schrick et al. CITATION ) and a C-terminal region (residues 437–686). As shown in Fig. 6 A, deletion of the whole C-terminal region (FWAΔC; corresponding to residues 1–436) resulted in the loss of interaction with FT. Deletion of the C-terminal 48 residues (FWAΔ639–686) also abolished this interaction ( Fig. 6 B), indicating the importance of the C-terminal region in the interaction with FT. However, the C-terminal region alone [FWA(C); corresponding to residues 437–686] was not sufficient for the interaction. In contrast, deletion of the N-terminal region including the HD (FWAΔN; corresponding to residues 99–686) did not abolish the interaction ( Fig. 6 A). Further deletion of the ZLZ domain [FWA(START+C); corresponding to residues 216–686] did abolish the interaction ( Fig. 6 A). This implies that the ZLZ domain is also important in the interaction with FT. However, neither the ZLZ domain alone [FWA(ZLZ); corresponding to residues 99–215] nor the ZLZ domain in combination with the C-terminal region [FWA(ZLZ+C); corresponding to residues 99–215 plus residues 437–686] was sufficient for the interaction ( Fig. 6 A).   An in vitro pull-down assay was performed to confirm the interaction between FWA and FT demonstrated in yeast cells. Various truncated forms of FWA proteins were translated and labeled with [ 35 S]methionine in vitro. Labeled protein was incubated with the purified glutathione S -transferase (GST)–FT fusion protein expressed in Escherichia coli and was examined for its ability to bind to FT protein. As shown in Fig. 6 C, binding of the full-length protein (FWA) and the N-terminally truncated protein (FWAΔN) with FT protein was confirmed. Other truncated forms [FWAΔC, FWA(START+C), FWA(ZLZ), FWA(C) and FWA(ZLZ+C)] did not bind to FT. These results are consistent with those of the yeast two-hybrid assay.   Given that FWA is ectopically expressed in late-flowering fwa epi-mutants, overexpression of the full-length FWA should confer the late-flowering phenotype in transgenic plants. However, if the interaction between FWA and FT is the cause of delayed flowering in fwa epi-mutants, it is expected that overexpression of FWAΔC with abolished interaction with FT has little effect on flowering time. To test this, we generated plants overexpressing full-length or truncated forms of FWA as the N-terminally myc-tagged protein ( 35S::myc-FWA, 35S::myc-FWAΔN, 35S::myc-FWAΔC ). By RNA blot analysis, we confirmed high levels of accumulation of the corresponding mRNA in transgenic plants ( Fig. 7 A). Accumulation of significant amounts of fusion proteins was also observed (Supplemenary Fig. S7; see Supplementary text for details). As expected, 35S::myc-FWA plants showed delayed flowering ( Fig. 7 B). Plants overexpressing the N-terminal truncation form of FWA (myc-FWAΔN), which retains interaction with FT in yeast cells and in vitro but lacks a HD, showed delayed flowering. In contrast, plants overexpressing the C-terminal truncation form of FWA (myc-FWAΔC), which is unable to interact with FT in yeast cells and in vitro, did not show the late-flowering phenotype ( Fig. 7 B). It is interesting to note that fwa-1R2 , an intragenic suppressor of late-flowering fwa-1 (Soppe et al. CITATION ), has a one-base deletion which, if translated, produces a truncated protein. FWA-1R2 protein lacks most of the C-terminal region (see Materials and Methods for the mutation in fwa-1R2 ) and could not interact with FT in yeast cells ( Fig. 6 A).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  Since ectopically expressed FWA protein is likely to act through interaction with FT protein to delay flowering and since interaction is rather specific to FT [little interaction with its close homolog TSF (82% identity with FT in amino acid sequence); Fig. 5 A], we reasoned that FWA protein can be used as a kind of specific inhibitor of FT protein. This idea is further supported by the observation that fwa-101D had no effect on the precocious-flowering phenotype of 35S::CiFT and 35S::Hd3a ( Table 2 ). FWA protein allows us to examine whether inhibition of FT protein function in the vascular tissues, which includes the sites of FT transcription, or in the shoot apex, the suggested site of FT protein action (Abe et al. CITATION , Wigge et al. CITATION ), results in delayed flowering.  FWA expressed in the shoot apex by a weak FD promoter (Abe et al. CITATION ) ( FD::myc-FWA ) clearly delayed flowering ( Fig. 8 A, B, E). Conversely, FWA expressed in the vascular tissues by the SULTR2;1 promoter (Takahashi et al. CITATION ) ( SULTR2;1::myc-FWA ) did not affect flowering time ( Fig. 8 A, C, E). These results indicate that FWA protein expressed in the shoot apex is able to interfere with FT function, but FWA protein in the vascular tissues is not. This provides further support for the notion that FT protein acts in the shoot apex. In contrast, fwa-1 , which causes rather ubiquitous expression of FWA (see Fig. 2 for fwa-101D ), was effective in suppressing the precocious-flowering phenotype caused by FT expression either in the shoot apex ( FD::FT and PDF1::FT ) or in the vascular tissues ( SULTR2;1::FT ) (Supplementary Table S3).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~!  Col and L er were used as wild types. All transgenic lines were in the Col background. fwa-1 and fwa-2 in the L er background were obtained from M. Koornneef (Max Planck Institute, Germany). fwa-101D was obtained after mutagenesis of the 35S::FT (YK #11-1) in the Col background with EMS. 35S::FT (YK #11-1) and 35S::FT (YK #1-5C) are strong and weak lines, respectively (Kobayashi et al. CITATION ). 35S::CiFT and 35S::Hd3a transgenic plants were previously described (Kobayashi et al. CITATION , Kojima et al. CITATION ) and strong lines (#12-4 and #5-3, respectively) were chosen for the present work. soc1-101D (Lee et al. CITATION ) and 35S::AP1 (Mandel and Yanofsky, 1992) were obtained from I. Lee (Seoul National University, Korea) and M. Yanofsky (University of California, San Diego, CA, USA), respectively. FT::GUS (line #6-16) (Takada and Goto, CITATION ) was obtained from K. Goto (Research Institute of Biological Sciences, Okayama, Japan).   For expression analysis, plants were grown on 1/2 Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 0.5% sucrose containing 0.4% Gellan gum. Seeds were stratified by keeping at 4°C for 3–5 d and then transferred to 22°C; this transfer was defined as day 0. Plants were grown under LD (16 h light/8 h dark) conditions with white fluorescent lights (∼60 μmol m −2 s −1 ) or SD (8 h light/16 h dark) conditions with white fluorescent lights (∼100 μmol m −2 s −1 ).   For analysis of the flowering-time phenotype, plants were grown on 1/2 MS medium with 0.5% sucrose containing 0.4% Gellan gum (Wako, Osaka, Japan) as described above ( Table 1 ) or on vermiculite with nutrient supplements of Hyponex (1 : 2000 dilution, HYPONex JAPAN Corp., Osaka, Japan) at 22°C under LD conditions with white fluorescent lights (∼60 μmo m −2 s −1 ) ( Table 2 ).   To construct FWA::GUS , a fragment containing promoter and non-coding exons was amplified from the Col genome by PCR with the following combination of primers: FWApro1, 5′-GAGCCAACAGCATCAGTCAATGAGAAACTC-3′; and FWApro3′XmaI, 5′-TCCcccgggTTTCCAACCGCATCCAAATCACCTTGTCC-3′. After digestion with Bam HI and Xma I, a 3.3 kb FWA genomic fragment (position –3,322 to +36) was fused to the GUS coding sequence in pBI101.   To construct 35S::FWA , the FWA open reading frame (ORF) in Col was amplified by PCR and cloned into Bam HI and Xba I sites between the 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase (NOS) gene terminator in a pCGN1547-derivative. To construct 35S::myc-FWA , the 5′ end of the FWA ORF was fused to a c- Myc tag and replaced with the GUS coding sequence of pBI121. 35S::myc-FWAΔN and 35S::myc-FWAΔC were constructed in the same way as 35S::myc-FWA. 35S::myc-FWAΔN and 35S::myc-FWAΔC contain the region +295 to the stop codon of FWA and the region +1 to +1,308 and a stop codon, respectively. To construct FD::myc-FWA , the FD 5′-untranslated region (UTR) and ORF between the FD promoter and the NOS terminator in FD::FD was replaced with the myc-FWA ORF. SULTR2;1::myc-FWA was constructed by replacing the FT sequence (ORF and UTRs) of SULTR2;1::FT with the myc-FWA ORF. FD::FD and SULTR2;1::FT on the pBIN19 vector used in these constructions were previously described (Abe et al. CITATION ).   These constructs in binary vectors were introduced into Agrobacterium strain pMP90 and transformed into Arabidopsis (Col) by the floral dip procedure (Clough and Bent CITATION ).   Genomic DNA was extracted using Plant DNAzol reagent (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). A 5 μg aliquot of genomic DNA was digested with the restriction enzyme Cfo I, separated on a 1% agarose gel and blotted onto a Hybond-N+ nylon membrane (GE Healthcare Bio-Science, Piscataway, NJ, USA). Hybridization was performed in PerfectHyb Hybridization Solution (Toyobo, Osaka, Japan) with a 32 P-labeled probe. The probe was made from a PCR-amplified fragment (position +588 to +2,071 in GenBank accession No. AF178688) and synthesized using the Megaprime DNA Labelling System (GE Healthcare Bio-Science) with [α- 32 P]dCTP (GE Healthcare Bio-Science).   Total RNA was extracted using TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. For RNA gel blot analysis, 10 μg of total RNA was separated on a 1% agarose gel containing formaldehyde and blotted onto a Hybond-N+ nylon membrane (GE Healthcare Bio-Science). Hybridization, washing and detection were performed with the DIG system (Roche Diagnostics, Basel, Switzerland) according to the manufacturer's protocol. To prepare FWA -specific RNA probe, a PCR-amplified fragment (position +277 to +1,308 relative to the initiation ATG codon whose A is designated +1) was cloned into pCR-Blunt II-TOPO (Invitrogen). The antisense probe was synthesized using SP6 RNA polymerase with digoxigenin-11-UTP (Roche Diagnostics).   For RT–PCR, total RNA (0.5 μg) was treated with RNase-free DNase I (Invitrogen) and reverse-transcribed in a 20 μl reaction mixture using the Superscript III First-Strand Synthesis System for RT–PCR (Invitrogen). Primers used for FWA, FT and ACT2 were previously described (Genger et al. 2002, Abe et al. CITATION ). After amplification, PCR products were electrophoresed on an agarose gel, and visualized by ethidium bromide staining or DNA gel blot analysis. DNA gel blot analysis was performed with AlkPhos Direct (GE Healthcare Bio-Science) according to the manufacturer's protocol. Probes were made from fragments amplified with the same primer sets for each gene.   In situ RNA hybridization was performed essentially as described (Heisler et al. CITATION ). To prepare FWA -specific RNA probe, a PCR-amplified fragment (position +886 to +2,043) was cloned into pCR-Blunt II-TOPO (Invitrogen). The antisense probe was synthesized using SP6 RNA polymerase with digoxigenin-11-UTP. The sense probe was synthesized using T7 RNA polymerase. Tissue samples were fixed in FAA (50% ethanol, 5% acetic acid and 3.7% formaldehyde), dehydrated, and embedded in paraffin. Sections (8 μm thick) were hybridized in 50% formamide with 5× SSC at 58°C for 3.5 h and washed in 0.1× SSC at 65°C.  FWA::GUS line #700-1 was chosen for detailed analysis of FWA::GUS expression. Samples were collected from LD- or SD-grown plants. Six-day-old seedlings of FT::GUS (line #6-16) in Col and fwa-101D backgrounds grown under LD conditions were sampled at Zeitgeber time 14 and were analyzed for FT::GUS expression. GUS staining was performed for 48 h as described (Yamaguchi et al. CITATION ). After staining, for whole-mount observation, samples were cleared in a mixture of chloral hydrate, glycerol and water solution (8 g : 1 ml : 2 ml).  Total RNA was extracted from 7-day-old seedlings grown under LD conditions using TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen), then purified by LiCl precipitation. Samples were subjected to analysis with Agilent Arabidopsis 2 Oligo Microarray (Agilent Technologies, Palo Alto, CA, USA), which is a 60-mer oligo microarray consisting of 21,500 Arabidopsis gene elements. Hybridization and data acquisition were performed by Hitachi Life Science (Saitama, Japan) according to the supplier's manual. Hybridization was performed once per microarray. Results of microarray analysis were further confirmed by RT–PCR analysis for selected genes. Primers used for RT–PCR analysis are shown in Supplementary Tables S4 and S5.  The HybriZAP-2.1 Two-Hybrid System (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) was used. ORFs of FWA, FT, TSF, TFL1, FD and FDP were cloned into pBD-GAL4 Cam or pAD-GAL4-2.1. FWA was fused to the Gal4 activation domain (AD) to generate AD:FWA (with a linker of IELGSSASREF) or to the BD to generate BD:FWA (with a linker of EF). TSF was fused to BD with a linker (EFARD) to generate BD:TSF. BD:FT, BD:TFL1, BD:FD and BD:FDP constructs were previously described (Abe et al. CITATION ). To prepare various forms of truncated FWA, FWAΔC (corresponding to amino acid residues 1–436 of FWA), FWAΔN (residues 99–686), FWA(START+C) (residues 216–686), FWA(ZLZ) (residues 99–215), FWA(C) (residues 437–686), FWA(ZLZ+C) (residues 99–125 and 437–686), FWA-1R2 (residues 1–450 plus nine foreign residues), FWAΔ498–686, FWAΔ577–686 and FWAΔ639–686 were cloned into pAD-GAL4-2.1. FWA-1R2 was based on the sequence of fwa-1R2 , an intragenic suppressor of fwa-1 (Soppe et al. CITATION ). fwa-1R2 has a substitution at the splice acceptor site of the ninth exon causing a one-base deletion in the 451st codon (GGA to GA) by mis-splicing and, if translated, produces a truncated protein with the N-terminal 450 residues of FWA and an additional nine amino acid residues. The details of construction are available upon request.   A yeast two-hybrid assay was performed using yeast strain Y187 obtained from Clontech (Mountain View, CA, USA). The appropriate plasmids were transformed into the yeast strain by the lithium acetate method and were selected on SD plates lacking leucine and tryptophan. To measure β-galactosidase activity, yeast cells were grown in 5 ml of liquid SD medium lacking leucine and tryptophan overnight, then transferred to 8 ml of YPD, and cultured until the OD 600 was 0.5–0.8. The cells were collected and broken by freeze–thawing. The crude extracts were incubated with O -nitrophenyl-β- d -galactopyranoside, and then the OD 420 was measured. The activity is expressed in Miller's units.   The FWA ORF cloned in pENTR/SD/D-TOPO (Invitrogen) was recombined into Gateway pDEST14 (Invitrogen). Various forms of truncated FWA corresponding to those used in the yeast two-hybrid assay were cloned into pDEST14. In vitro transcription/translation was performed with l -[ 35 S]methionine (GE Healthcare Bio-Science) by TNT Coupled Reticulocyte Lysate Systems (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) according to the manufacturer's instructions. To express the GST–FT fusion protein, pDEST15-FT described previously (Abe et al. CITATION ) was transformed into E. coli BL21-AI (Invitrogen). GST protein was prepared using pDEST15-stop and was used as a control.   For GST pull-down assays, cell lysate was incubated with glutathione–Sepharose 4B beads (GE Healthcare Bio-Science), then 20 μl of the slurry [50% (v/v)] was mixed with 10 μl of 35 S-labeled in vitro translation products and 220 μl of NETN Buffer [50 mM Tris–HCl (pH 7.5), 100 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 0.5% NP-40] and was gently stirred at 4°C for 2 h. The beads were washed extensively with NETN buffer five times, and subjected to SDS–PAGE. After electrophoresis, the labeled protein was detected by the phosphor imager BAS-1000 (Fuji Film, Tokyo, Japan).   Supplementary material mentioned in the article is available to online subscribers at the journal website www.pcp.oxfordjournals.org . 
