!~ABS~! We investigated the physiological function of three Arabidopsis thaliana homologs of the gibberellin (GA) receptor GIBBERELLIN-INSENSITIVE DWARF1 (GID1) by determining the developmental consequences of GID1 inactivation in insertion mutants. Although single mutants developed normally, gid1a gid1c and gid1a gid1b displayed reduced stem height and lower male fertility, respectively, indicating some functional specificity. The triple mutant displayed a dwarf phenotype more severe than that of the extreme GA-deficient mutant ga1-3. Flower formation occurred in long days but was delayed, with severe defects in floral organ development. The triple mutant did not respond to applied GA. All three GID1 homologs were expressed in most tissues throughout development but differed in expression level. GA treatment reduced transcript abundance for all three GID1 genes, suggesting feedback regulation. The DELLA protein REPRESSOR OF ga1-3 (RGA) accumulated in the triple mutant, whose phenotype could be partially rescued by loss of RGA function. Yeast two-hybrid and in vitro pull-down assays confirmed that GA enhances the interaction between GID1 and DELLA proteins. In addition, the N-terminal sequence containing the DELLA domain is necessary for GID1 binding. Furthermore, yeast three-hybrid assays showed that the GA-GID1 complex promotes the interaction between RGA and the F-box protein SLY1, a component of the SCFSLY1 E3 ubiquitin ligase that targets the DELLA protein for degradation.
!~RES~! A full understanding of the physiological roles of the GID1a-1c genes in regulating Arabidopsis growth and development requires knowledge of their expression profiles throughout the life cycle of the plant. It has previously been shown by semiquantitative RT-PCR that the three genes are expressed in flowers, siliques, stems, leaves, roots, and imbibed seeds at similar levels (CITATION). However, analysis of the AtGenExpress expression atlas data set (CITATION; www.weigelworld.org/resources/microarray/AtGenExpress) reveals large differences in expression levels of the GID1a-1c genes, indicating some tissue specificity. Therefore, to define their expression profiles more precisely, we quantified their transcript levels by real-time RT-PCR in a range of tissues throughout development. The absolute levels of expression of the GID1a-1c genes in selected tissues are compared in Figure 1A . Three reference genes (At1g13320, At4g34270, and At2g28390) that are expressed constantly in tissues throughout development (CITATION) were used as standards. Consistent with the role of GA in regulating growth processes throughout the life cycle of the plant, expression of the GID1a-1c genes was detected in all of the tissues analyzed. The overlapping expression profiles of the different Arabidopsis GID1 genes that we observed are consistent with the findings of CITATION and support their suggestion that the receptors play redundant roles in regulating GA-responsive growth. However, in contrast with their results, our data show clear differences in the absolute and relative levels of expression of the individual Arabidopsis GID1 genes in different tissues, which could indicate distinct roles in regulating different developmental processes. In all tissues analyzed, with the exception of roots, GID1a transcript is present at the highest levels, most notably in dry seeds. GID1c is expressed at the lowest levels in almost all of the tissues, with the exception of dry seeds and the stem. While the level of GID1b transcript is lower than that of GID1a and higher than that of GID1c in the majority of tissues we analyzed, it is the most highly expressed Arabidopsis GID1 gene in the roots. These major differences in their relative levels of expression suggest that the individual Arabidopsis GID1 genes may play some distinct roles, with GID1a potentially encoding the major GA receptor required for most growth processes. [[FIGURE]] We investigated the physiological roles of the three Arabidopsis GID1 genes further by identifying and characterizing T-DNA and transposon insertion mutants for each gene (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). We identified two independent insertion alleles of the GID1a gene, designated gid1a-1 and gid1a-2. In both cases, the T-DNA is inserted into the second exon. We also identified two independent T-DNA insertion alleles of GID1c, similarly designated gid1c-1 and gid1c-2. The T-DNA insertion in gid1c-2 is located in the second exon, whereas it is in the intron in gid1c-1. A single insertion allele (gid1b-1) of GID1b was identified from the SLAT collection, and the transposon insertion was confirmed to be in the second exon. Using RT-PCR with primers spanning or downstream of the insertion site, we were unable to detect gene-specific transcripts in all five mutants (see Supplemental Figure 1B online; data not shown for gid1a-2 and gid1c-2). This suggests that all the mutations produce null alleles. The overlapping expression patterns of the GID1a-1c genes (Figure 1A) suggest some functional redundancy in regulating growth processes. This is supported by our findings that none of the single gid1 mutants exhibited pronounced phenotypic defects when grown under standard growth conditions. To address the issue of functional redundancy, we constructed all double and the triple mutant combinations by genetic crossing. The gid1a-1, gid1b-1, and gid1c-1 alleles were used to produce the mutants that are described in the following sections. The gid1a-1 gid1b-1 double mutant, initially produced by crossing gid1a-1 and gid1b-1, displayed reduced fertility (see below). However, this phenotype did not prevent it being successfully crossed with gid1c-1. The F2 population of this cross yielded the remaining gid1a-1 gid1c-1 and gid1b-1 gid1c-1 double mutants but not the triple mutant. It has been demonstrated that GAs are necessary for promoting germination in Arabidopsis (CITATION). If the GID1a-1c genes encode the predominant GA receptors that are necessary for controlling GA-dependent growth processes, we hypothesized that the gid1a gid1b gid1c triple mutant would exhibit a nongerminating phenotype. To obtain this mutant, we identified a gid1a-1/GID1a; gid1b-1/gid1b-1; gid1c-1/gid1c-1 plant, which was self-pollinated and the progeny scored on Murashige and Skoog (MS) agar plates. The self progeny included both germinating and nongerminating seeds. The nongerminating seed phenotype segregated as a single Mendelian recessive trait (see Supplemental Table 2 online). Although severe GA-deficient mutants do not germinate in the absence of GA, this block on germination can be bypassed by separating the embryo from the testa (CITATION). Therefore, we dissected the embryos from the nongerminating seeds and transferred them to fresh agar plates. The majority of the embryos developed into healthy seedlings, which displayed a characteristic GA dwarf phenotype, initially reminiscent of the ga1-3 mutant (see below). These mutants were confirmed as the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 triple mutant by PCR genotyping using allele-specific primers. We performed an initial phenotypic characterization of all mutant combinations to investigate the roles of each Arabidopsis GID1 gene in known GA-regulated growth processes, focusing on flowering time, leaf expansion, stem elongation, and reproductive development. However, since the genetic analyses uncovered a high degree of functional redundancy between the three Arabidopsis GID1 genes (see below), we subsequently focused mainly on the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 triple mutant as a means of dissecting the role of this gene family as a whole. GAs have a well-characterized involvement in promoting vegetative development in Arabidopsis. This is clearly illustrated in the severely GA-deficient mutant ga1-3, which displays dramatically reduced leaf expansion, and stem and root elongation (CITATION; CITATION). We compared rosette radius and root length in the single, double, and triple mutants (Table 1 ). There were only small differences between the single and double mutants compared with wild-type Col-0 plants. By contrast, the triple mutant displayed dramatic reductions in rosette radius and root length of 87 and 74%, respectively (Table 1, Figures 2A , 3B, and 3C ). This result implies that the Arabidopsis GID1 genes play functionally redundant roles in controlling leaf and root elongation under our standard growth conditions. In a separate experiment, we compared leaf and root elongation in the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 triple mutant and the ga1-3 mutant that has been backcrossed six times with Col-0 (CITATION). Although there was no obvious difference in root length after 5 d growth (Figure 3C; see Supplemental Figure 3 online), at 12 d, the root length of the triple mutant was reduced by 27% compared with ga1-3 (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Similarly, the rosette radius of the triple mutant was reduced by 47% compared with ga1-3 (Table 2 , Figure 2B). This result indicates that GA signaling, which promotes root and leaf expansion, is not completely abolished in the ga1-3 mutant. Phenotypic Characterization of the gid1 Mutants [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] GA-Insensitive Phenotype of gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 The ga1-3 mutant does not undergo stem elongation, indicating an essential role for GAs in this growth process (CITATION). In this study, we show that the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 triple mutant also does not initiate stem elongation (Table 1, Figure 2A). Based on our findings that all of the single and double gid1 mutants exhibit some degree of stem elongation (Table 1, Figure 2A), we conclude that the Arabidopsis GID1 genes play functionally redundant roles also in controlling this growth process. However, they display only partial redundancy because the gid1a-1 gid1c-1 double mutant exhibits a semidwarf phenotype in which stem elongation is reduced by 76% compared with the wild type (Table 1, Figure 2A). To confirm that the gid1a-1 and gid1c-1 mutations are responsible for the defects in stem elongation, we constructed the gid1a-2 gid1c-2 double mutant. An identical semidwarf phenotype was observed in the gid1a-2 gid1c-2 mutant (see Supplemental Figure 2A online), providing further support for the gid1a and gid1c alleles used in our study being nulls. The semidwarf phenotype of gid1a gid1c mutants indicates that GID1a and GID1c are the major GA receptor genes responsible for promoting stem elongation, but GID1b has a minor influence. This finding is consistent with our real-time PCR data, which show the levels of GID1a and GID1c transcripts to be ∼60 and 2.4 times higher, respectively, than those of GID1b in the elongating stem (Figure 1A). However, the difference in the expression levels of GID1b and GID1c in the stem is small, and it is likely that factors other than their transcript levels also influence their contribution to promoting stem elongation. In contrast with the reduced stem elongation in gid1a-1 gid1c-1 plants, the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 mutant attains a final stem height that is 14% taller than the wild type (Table 1). An identical phenotype was also observed in the gid1a-2 gid1b-1 mutant (see Supplemental Figure 2B online). This increase in final height is unexpected considering that the Arabidopsis GID1 genes act as positive regulators of stem elongation. It is conceivable that this increase in stem elongation in gid1a-1 gid1b-1 is an indirect consequence of the reduced fertility (CITATION) observed in this mutant (see below; Table 1). GAs are involved in many aspects of reproductive physiology. In Arabidopsis, they promote floral initiation and the development of floral organs, seeds, and siliques (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To assess the involvement of the Arabidopsis GID1 genes in these developmental processes, we have characterized reproductive development in all combinations of mutants. Under a long-day (LD) photoperiod, the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 mutant flowered at 22 and 8 d after the Col-0 and ga1-3 controls, respectively (Table 2). Furthermore, using scanning electron microscopy of dissected flower buds at a stage immediately before they senescence, we observed defects in floral organ morphology in the triple mutant that are more severe than those in ga1-3 (Figures 2E and 2F). However, there do not appear to be defects in floral patterning. The floral organ defects observed in the triple mutant include a dramatic reduction in the length of the pistil, although elongation of the papillae appears to be unaffected, and arrest of the stamens at an earlier stage of development than in ga1-3 (Figures 2E and 2F). Petal and stamen development do not progress beyond floral stage 10 in ga1-3 (CITATION). While the petal development in the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 mutant appears similar to that in ga1-3, the stamens appear to be arrested earlier, before stage 9, based on the lack of differentiation between the filament and the anthers (CITATION). The triple mutant also exhibits a striking reduction in the elongation of the pedicel compared with ga1-3 (Figures 2E and 2F). As for ga1-3, the arrested development of the floral organs in the triple mutant resulted in complete infertility. In contrast with the triple mutant, all of the single and double mutants flowered at essentially the same time (within 1 d) as wild-type plants (Table 1), indicating that the Arabidopsis GID1 genes possess functionally redundant roles in promoting floral initiation in LD photoperiods. However, there does appear to be some specificity in their regulation of filament and silique elongation. All of the mutants lacking GID1a displayed reductions in silique length compared with Col-0 (Table 1). Siliques of the gid1a-1, gid1a-1 gid1b-1, and gid1a-1 gid1c-1 mutants are reduced in length by 24, 48, and 38%, respectively (Table 1). Even more strikingly, the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 double mutant exhibits a reduction in seed number per silique of 66% compared with Col-0 (Table 1). The dramatically reduced fertility in the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 double mutant appears to be a direct consequence of a defect in filament elongation. Compared with wild-type flowers, the filaments of gid1a-1 gid1b-1 are shorter, such that less pollen released from the anthers is likely to reach the stigmatal surface (Figures 2C and 2D). It is clear that GID1c plays some role in filament elongation because the reduction in length in gid1a-1 gid1b-1 is not as severe as that observed in the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 triple mutant. The phenotype observed in the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 mutant provides supporting evidence that the Arabidopsis GID1 genes act as positive regulators of GA signaling. We confirmed that GA signaling is perturbed in the triple mutant by examining response to applied GA at both the whole plant and molecular levels. We treated gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1, ga1-3, and Col-0 plants throughout their life cycle with or without GA4 (Figure 3A, Table 2). While the ga1-3 and Col-0 plants demonstrated a visible growth response to GA, the treated and untreated gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 mutants were indistinguishable (Figure 3A, Table 2). In the same study, we observed that the semidwarf phenotype of the gid1a-1 gid1c-1 double mutant was also not rescued by the GA treatment (see Supplemental Figure 2B online). We investigated the GA responsiveness of the triple mutant further by determining the effects of GA treatment on flowering time, leaf expansion, and root and hypocotyl elongation. In all cases, we were unable to detect any effect of GA in promoting growth (Figures 3B to 3D, Table 2), providing clear evidence that gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 is GA-insensitive, at least for the developmental processes investigated. Furthermore, it provides additional evidence that the gid1 mutations used in this study produce null alleles. GA homeostasis is maintained by regulation of its own metabolism via the signaling pathway. This involves downregulation of some of the GA-biosynthetic genes encoding GA 20-oxidase (GA20ox) and GA 3-oxidase (GA3ox) and upregulation of genes encoding GA 2-oxidase (CITATION; CITATION). We investigated GA responsiveness of the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 mutant at the molecular level by examining expression of GA3ox1 (CITATION) using real-time quantitative RT-PCR. Compared with Col-0 seedlings, GA3ox1 transcript levels were elevated approximately sixfold in the triple mutant (Figure 3E). Application of GA4 caused an ∼2.5-fold reduction in the transcript levels of GA3ox1 in wild-type seedlings but had no effect in the triple mutant. This result is consistent with GA biosynthesis being regulated through the activity of the GA response pathway to maintain GA homeostasis and provides further evidence that the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 mutant is GA insensitive. It has been demonstrated that the loss of feedback regulation of GA biosynthesis in the rice gid1-2 mutant resulted in the accumulation of the bioactive GA (GA1) to levels that were 120 times higher than those of wild-type plants (CITATION). To determine whether GA content is also altered in the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 mutant, we analyzed C19-GA levels in the vegetative rosettes of Col-0 and mutant plants (Table 3 ). The concentration of GA4, the major bioactive GA in Arabidopsis, was elevated by at least 12-fold in the triple mutant compared with the wild type, whereas that of GA34, its 2β-hydroxylated (inactivated) metabolite, was >20-fold higher in the mutant. Large increases were found also for the concentrations of GA1 and GA8, the 13-hydroxylated analogs of GA4 and GA34, respectively. In this case, the concentration of GA1 in the wild type was too low to be quantified. There was a much smaller change in the concentration of GA20, the immediate precursor of GA1, as might be anticipated since both its rate of conversion to GA1 by GA3ox and its formation by GA20ox are likely to be elevated in the triple mutant. The content of GA29, the 2β-hydroxylated analog of GA20, was too low to be quantified in the wild type and mutant. GA Content of Col-0 and gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 Rosettes A consequence of the elevated GA levels in gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 is that GA may be saturated for some responses in this mutant. We investigated this possibility by reducing GA content in the triple mutant by growing them in the presence of the GA biosynthesis inhibitor paclobutrazol (PAC) and then determining the extent of root growth in response to GA (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). PAC inhibited the growth of ga1-3 and gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 roots to a similar extent. However, when GA was also added to the plates, the roots of ga1-3 seedlings were approximately four times longer after 5 d, whereas those of the triple mutant did not elongate further. This confirms that roots of the triple mutants are unable to respond to GA. It is interesting to note that PAC can inhibit root growth further in the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 mutant. This observation suggests that there are GA-independent pathways responsible for regulating root growth that are also inhibited by PAC. For example, brassinosteroid biosynthesis and abscisic acid catabolism also were shown to be affected by PAC and/or related compounds that target cytochrome P450 monooxygenases (CITATION). Our initial interest in the Arabidopsis GID1 genes arose from analysis of the AtGenExpress microarray data set (http://web.uni-frankfurt.de/fb15/botanik/mcb/AFGN/atgenex.htm) in which the effect of treating a GA-deficient mutant, ga1-5, with bioactive GA was analyzed using Affymetrix ATH1 gene chips. Among the genes shown to be regulated by GA were two subsequently shown to encode the GID1 homologs GID1a and GID1b (data not shown). Furthermore, a recent transcriptomics study by CITATION identified GID1a and GID1b as DELLA-upregulated genes. We examined this further by quantitative RT-PCR analysis and confirmed that indeed a feedback mechanism, similar to that operating in GA biosynthesis, also appears to modulate transcript levels of GID1a, GID1b, and GID1c (Figures 1B and 1C). As a control, transcript levels of GA3ox1 were also measured. Similar to changes in GA3ox1 expression, although less dramatic, GA treatment of ga1-3 reduced transcript levels of GID1a-1c (to ∼50% for GID1a and GID1b and a smaller decrease for GID1c; Figure 1B). In addition, rga-24 and gai-t6 null mutations (in the triple homozygous mutant ga1-3 rga-24 gai-t6) resulted in slightly decreased GID1a and 1b mRNA levels, presumably because the GA signaling pathway is derepressed by these mutations (Figure 1C). Consistent with this hypothesis, the gain-of-function rga-Δ17 caused an opposite effect on GID1a and 1b expression in comparison with the null DELLA alleles. Although the experiments described in this section were performed in the Landsberg erecta (Ler) background, we have also analyzed the expression of the GID1a-1c genes in Col-0 and found that they are expressed at very similar levels and show an equivalent response to GA treatment in the two ecotypes (data not shown). It is conceivable that the feedback regulation of GID1a-1c mRNA levels through the GA signaling pathway has an effect on the phenotype of gid1 single and double mutants, which contain one of these functional genes. To explore this hypothesis, we analyzed the relative levels of the GID1a-1c transcripts in all combinations of gid1 single and double mutants using real-time PCR. In all of these mutants, we did not detect any obvious changes in the levels of GID1a-1c transcripts in 7-d-old seedlings compared with Col-0 (data not shown). This result suggests that the lack of developmental defects observed in the gid1 seedlings is not due primarily to the increased expression of the remaining Arabidopsis GID1 genes. In rice, it has been shown that GID1 plays a direct role in targeting SLR1 for degradation (CITATION). In the absence of GID1, SLR1 accumulates to high levels and is not degraded in response to GA, leading to a GA-insensitive dwarf phenotype. The role of SLR1 in producing the GA-insensitive phenotype was confirmed by epistasis analysis showing that slr1 loss-of-function mutations completely rescue the defects in gid1 (CITATION). Considering the highly conserved mechanisms between the GA signaling cascades in Arabidopsis and rice, it seems probable that the GA-insensitive dwarf phenotype of the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 mutant is caused by the accumulation of DELLAs and absence of GA-mediated degradation. To explore this hypothesis, we analyzed the level and GA sensitivity of the DELLA protein RGA in the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 triple mutant by immunoblotting. Similar to RGA accumulation in ga1-3, we found that RGA protein levels were elevated in the triple mutant compared with wild-type Col-0 (Figure 4A ). In contrast with wild-type Col-0 and ga1-3, but similar to the sly1-2 mutant, GA treatment of the triple mutant did not result in any decrease in RGA protein levels (Figure 4A). Our results in Figure 4A suggest that there is a basal level of GA (and GID1)–independent degradation of RGA mediated by SCFSLY1 because the amount of RGA in the sly1 mutant was much higher than in ga1-3 or the gid1 triple mutant. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the dwarf phenotype of the triple mutant is caused by the overaccumulation of the DELLAs, we constructed the rga-28 gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 quadruple mutant by genetic crossing. Figure 4B shows a comparison of the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 and rga-28 gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 mutants and wild-type Col-0 plants after 37 d grown on soil. The rga-28 mutation partially suppresses many of the growth defects of the gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 mutant, including leaf expansion and stem elongation. However, some of the defects, including germination and fertility, are not rescued. This result demonstrates that GID1a-1c are responsible for promoting GA-dependent growth in Arabidopsis, in part, through their regulation of GA-mediated degradation of RGA. It is likely that the developmental defects still observed in the rga-28 gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1 mutant are caused by the accumulation of the other DELLA proteins, GAI, RGL1, RGL2, and RGL3, in this plant. Recent studies using yeast two-hybrid assays showed that binding of GA to GID1 promotes direct interaction of GID1 and DELLA (CITATION; CITATION). However, the sequence in DELLA that is involved in GID1 binding has not been characterized, although the DELLA domain is a candidate because it is essential for GA-induced proteolysis of the DELLA proteins. To test our hypothesis, we first examined interaction between Arabidopsis DELLA proteins and GID1a-1c. RGA and GAI were expressed as Gal4 transactivation domain (AD) protein fusions and the GID1a-1c as LexA DNA binding domain (DB) protein fusions in the yeast strain L40 harboring the His3 and LacZ reporter genes. Interactions of DB and AD fusion proteins in the yeast cells were scored for the relative growth on His− plates containing 3-aminotriazole (3-AT; 5 to 60 mM) and for β-galactosidase (β-gal) activity. 3-AT serves as an indicator of the strength of interaction between the DB and AD protein fusions because it is a competitive inhibitor of the His3 enzyme. Therefore, the ability to grow on a higher concentration of 3-AT indicates a higher His3 expression level (CITATION). Consistent with a recent report of CITATION, we observed GA-enhanced interactions between DELLA proteins (RGA and GAI) and GID1a, -1b, and -1c in yeast two-hybrid assays (Figure 5A ). Interestingly, GID1b and GID1c showed some degree of GA-independent interactions with DELLA proteins (CITATION; Figure 5A). To provide additional evidence for a direct, GA-triggered interaction between RGA and GID1a, we performed in vitro pull-down assays. GID1a was expressed in E. coli as a glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion protein and purified using glutathione sepharose. The purified GST-GID1a protein was incubated with crude lysates prepared from sly1-10 and sly1-10 rga-24 seedlings in the presence or absence of GA4, washed, and then immunoblotted with anti-RGA antibodies. Only in the presence of GA4 was the endogenous RGA protein pulled down from a sly1-10 lysate by GST-GID1a but not by GST (Figure 6A ). The RGA pull-down efficiency appears to be dependent on the concentration of GA4 (Figure 6B). Similar pull-down assays were also performed using GST-GID1b and GST-GID1c to test whether we could detect GA-independent interactions with RGA, as observed in the yeast two-hybrid system. However, both GID1b and GID1c pulled down RGA from sly1 extracts in a GA-dependent manner, although there might be a very weak interaction between GID1c and RGA in the absence of GA (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Future studies will be needed to determine whether GA-independent interaction occurs in planta for any of the GID1s. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The conserved motifs DELLA and VHYNP near the N termini of DELLA proteins are essential for GA-induced degradation (CITATION; CITATION). However, these motifs are not required for SLY1 binding (CITATION), raising the possibility that they are involved in Arabidopsis GID1 binding. Figures 5B and 5C show that deletion of the DELLA motif in GAI or RGA abolished interaction with GID1a. Additional assays using a RGA deletion series indicated that the N-terminal 108 amino acids region containing both DELLA and VHYNP motifs (RNT2) is required for GID1a binding, whereas the Poly S/T region or GRAS domain is not. Although it was demonstrated that GA enhances Arabidopsis GID1 and DELLA protein interaction (CITATION) and that the SCFSLY1 complex targets DELLA protein for GA-induced degradation (CITATION; CITATION), the question remains whether the GA-GID1-DELLA complex is recognized directly by the F-box protein SLY1. To address this question, yeast three-hybrid assays were performed. Previously, we showed that DB (LexA)-SLY1 and AD-RGA interact very weakly (with only 0.3 units of β-gal activity) in a yeast two-hybrid assay (CITATION). In the current system using DB (Gal4)-SLY1 and AD-RGA, the weak SLY1-RGA interaction appears to be masked by the higher background of the vector controls (Figure 7 ). Moreover, addition of GA in the media did not enhance SLY1-RGA interaction. Nonetheless, when GA was added to the cells that coexpressed GID1a with DB-SLY1 and AD-RGA, a strong interaction between SLY1 and RGA was observed. rga-Δ17 (lacking the DELLA motif) or RNT1 (lacking the GRAS domain) failed to interact with SLY1 even in the presence of GA and GID1 (Figure 7B). These observations are consistent with previous results showing that the DELLA domain (Figure 5) and the GRAS domain (CITATION) are required for binding to GID1 and SLY1, respectively. We also showed that SLY1 alone does not interact with Arabidopsis GID1 in the presence or absence of GA (Figure 5A). These results support the idea that SLY1 binds to a GA-GID1-RGA complex directly and that GA-GID1 dramatically enhances RGA and SLY1 interaction. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The wild-type background in this study was Col-0 or Ler as specified. The ga1-3 mutant is in the Ler background unless otherwise specified. All gid1 mutants are in the Col-0 background. The gid1a-1 (SALK_142767), gid1a-2 (SAIL_536_G10), gid1b-1 (SM_3_30227), and gid1c-1 (SALK_023529) alleles were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. gid1c-2 (GABIKat_639F05) was obtained from the GABI Kat collection (Max Planck Institute for Plant Breeding Research). Plants were grown on Levington F2 soil at 22°C under LD conditions (16 h light/8 h dark). The ga1-3, gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1, and gid1a-1 gid1c-1 mutants had their seed coats removed to assist germination. All lines grown for phenotypic characterizations had their seed coats manually removed after 3 d of incubation in water to reduce experimental variation. Dissected embryos were plated on 1× MS agar (1% sucrose and 0.8% agar, pH 5.7) for 8 d before transfer to soil. The same MS medium and soil were used for mutant characterization. The homozygous Arabidopsis thaliana mutants ga1-3, rga-24 gai-t6 ga1-3, sly1-10, and sly1-10/rga-24 (in the Ler background) and the rga-Δ17 transgenic line (Ler carrying PRGA:rga-Δ17) were described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The ga1-3 (Col-0) line used had been backcrossed for six generations to Col-0 (CITATION). The sly1-2 mutant (backcrossed three times to Col-0) was a gift from Camille Steber (Washington State University). For immunoblot analysis, quantitative RT-PCR (Figures 1B and 1C), and pull-down experiments, seedlings were grown on 1× MS medium (1 to 3% sucrose and 0.7% agar) in constant light at 22°C. Wild-type GID1A, gid1a-1, and gid1a-2 were detected by PCR using the following pairs of primers: GID1A-1F and GID1A-1R for the wild-type GID1A allele; GID1A-1R and LBa1 for the gid1a-1 allele; and GID1A-1R and SAIL-Lb3 for the gid1a-2 allele. Wild-type GID1B and gid1b-1 were detected by PCR using the following pairs of primers: GID1B-1F and GID1B-1R for the wild-type GID1B allele; GID1B-1R and SLAT-3′ for the gid1b-1 allele. Wild-type GID1C, gid1c-1, and gid1c-2 were detected by PCR using the following pairs of primers: GID1C-1F and GID1C-1R for the wild-type GID1C-1 allele; GID1C-2F and GID1C-2R for the wild-type GID1C-2 allele; GID1C-1R and LBa1 for the gid1c-1 allele; and GID1C-2R and GABIKatLB1 for the gid1c-2 allele. PCR was performed for 20 s at 94°C, for 15 s at 55°C, and for 1 min 30 s at 72°C for 35 cycles. The primers used for genotyping are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. To analyze GID1 transcripts in each gid1 mutant by RT-PCR, total RNA was isolated from the mutants using the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen). DNA was removed via an on-column treatment and a subsequent separate treatment with Turbo RNase-free DNase I (Ambion). One microgram of the resultant RNA was reverse transcribed using a mixture of oligo(dT) pimers and random hexamers with Superscript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The cDNA was then used in PCR reactions. The following primers (see Supplemental Table 1 online) were used: GID1A-1F and GID1A-1R for GID1A, GID1B-F2 and GID1B-R2 for GID1B, GID1C-F3 and GID1C-R3 for GID1C, and ACT2-1F and ACT2-1R for ACT2 (At3g18780). The PCR was performed for 20 s at 94°C, for 15 s at 55°C, and for 1 min and 15 s at 72°C for 35 cycles. Hypocotyl and root length measurements were taken from plants grown vertically on 1× MS agar at 22°C under LD conditions for 5 d in square Petri dishes. Seedlings were grown on both GA-free agar and agar containing 0.2 μM GA4. For the other measurements, plant lines (12 plants per line) were grown in a randomized grid. Seeds were germinated on MS agar plates and then transferred to soil after 4 d. Flowering time was measured by counting the number of days from sowing until flower buds were visible by the naked eye or by counting the number of rosette and cauline leaves. The rosette radius of each plant was determined by taking the mean of the lengths of the two largest leaves when fully expanded. Silique number was counted on the main stem, and silique length is the average length of siliques in positions 16 to 20 (from the base of the primary stem). Seed number was counted in the 18th silique or the next fertile silique. Plants treated with GA were sprayed with 100 μM GA4 three times per week. Transcript levels were measured by real-time quantitative RT-PCR with SYBR Green. The methods are described in detail in the Supplemental Methods online. Independent duplicate samples of freeze-dried rosettes from 13-d-old Col-0 (∼1 g dry weight) and 27-d-old gid1a-1 gi1b-1 gid1c-1 seedlings (∼0.5 g dry weight) were analyzed for GA content as described by CITATION with some modifications. Purified extracts after elution from the C18 cartridge were methylated with diazomethane and after taking to dryness under N2 were dissolved in ethyl acetate (1 mL) and partitioned against water (1 mL). The ethyl acetate phase was passed through a Bond-Elut NH2 cartridge (100 mg; Varian) that had been preconditioned with ethyl acetate (1 mL). The remaining water phase was partitioned twice more against ethyl acetate, with the organic phases being passed through the NH2 cartridge. The pooled ethyl acetate phases were evaporated to dryness in vacuo, and then the GA methyl esters were resolved by reverse phase HPLC using conditions described previously (CITATION). Pooled fractions were analyzed as methyl ester trimethylsilyl ethers on a ThermoFinnigan GCQ mass spectrometer. Samples in N-trimethylsilylfluoroacetamide (10 μL) were diluted with dry ethyl acetate (20 μL) and injected (1 μL) into a TR-1 capillary column (30 m × 0.25 mm × 0.25 μm film thickness; Thermo Electron) at 50°C. The split valve (50:1) was opened after 2 min and the temperature increased at 20°C min−1 to 200°C and then at 4°C min−1 to 300°C. The instrument was operated in selective ion monitoring mode, with the selected ions for each GA and its 2H2-labeled internal standard as described by CITATION. Individual flower buds were removed from fresh ga1-3 (Col-0), gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1, and Col-0 and dissected; at least two sepal and two petals were removed from each flower to expose the internal structure. Buds were attached to a mounting stub using OC compound (Tissue TEK), plunged into preslushed LN2, and then transferred under vacuum to the preparation chamber stage maintained at −180°C. Ice contamination was sublimed from the sample by raising the temperature to −90°C for ∼2 min. The temperature was returned to −180°C, and the samples were coated with gold for 1 min before imaging using a Jeol LVSEM 6360 scanning electron microscope in high vacuum cryo mode. A completely randomized design was used for plants from which root length measurements were taken. The design for the other measurements in the characterization experiment was a randomized block with eight blocks, whereas the design for the GA treatment experiment was a split plot in four blocks, pairs of trays making up each block, with one tray treated with GA and the other kept as control (CITATION). Analysis of variance was applied to all phenotypic measurements taken. To correct for heterogeneity of variance of the stem height, seed number, and root length data, a natural log transformation was taken. Note that, due to a common transformation being applied to all observations, the comparative values between genotypes are not altered and comparisons between them remain valid. The analysis provided the overall significance between genotypes for the characterization experiment and the main effect of treatment and the genotype treatment interaction for the GA-insensitivity experiment. LSDs at 1% were then used to assess significance between particular pairs of genotypes or treatment combinations. The GenStat statistical system (version 8.2) was used for all analyses (Lawes Agricultural Trust, Rothamsted, UK). Eight-day-old Col-0 seedlings that were grown on MS plates were treated with water or 1 μM GA4 for 1 h as described previously (CITATION). For ga1-3 (backcrossed six times to Col-0), sly1-2 (backcrossed three times to Col-0), and the triple gid1 mutants, embryos were dissected from imbibed seeds and then incubated on MS plates at 22°C for 8 d. The seeds of the triple gid1 mutant were produced from GID1a/gid1a gid1b/gid1b gid1c/gid1c parents because homozygous triple mutant plants are sterile. To identify and allow growth of the triple mutants, embryos were dissected from nongerminating seeds (triple gid1 mutants) after incubating on MS plates for 4 d at 22°C under 24 h of light. Total plant proteins were isolated and fractionated in a 8% SDS-PAGE gel and analyzed by immunoblot analysis using affinity-purified anti-RGA antibodies raised in rabbit (DU176) as described (CITATION). Ponceau staining was used to confirm equal loading. Sequences of primers used in this study are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. The PCR-amplified fragments in all constructs were analyzed by DNA sequence analysis to ensure that no mutations were introduced. GID1a cDNA was PCR amplified from a SALK cDNA clone (U17384). GID1b and GID1c cDNAs were amplified from Arabidopsis (Ler) leaf cDNA. GID1a-c PCR fragments were cloned into pCR4Blunt-TOPO (Invitrogen) to generate pCRGID1a (GID1a), pCRGID1b (GID1b), and pCRGID1c (GID1c). For yeast two-hybrid analysis, pLexA-NLS (containing LexA DB domain; CITATION) and pACTII (containing transcriptional AD domain; CITATION) were used as expression vectors. pSLY101 (DB-SLY1), pRG42 (AD-RGA), pRG225 (AD-rga-Δ17), pGAI102 (AD-GAI), pgai-1 (AD-gai-Δ17), and AD fusions with GAI truncations (GAI-NT1 [amino acids 1 to 157], GAI-CT1 [amino acids 92 to 532], GAI-CT2 [amino acids 151 to 532], and GAI-CT3 [amino acids 223 to 532]) were made previously (CITATION). The BamHI-PstI fragments from pCRGID1a-c were cloned into BamHI-PstI sites of pLexA-NLS, resulting in pLexAGID1a (DB-GID1a), pLexAGID1b (DB-GID1b), and pLexAGID1c (DB-GID1c). The BamHI-EcoRI fragments from pCRGID1a-c were cloned into the BamHI-EcoRI site of pACTII, generating pACTGID1a (AD-GID1a), pACTGID1b (AD-GID1b), and pACTGID1c (AD-GID1c). A series of truncated fragments of RGA were amplified from pRG42 and cloned into pCR4Blunt-TOPO, generating pCRRNT1-4. pCRRNT1-4 contain the following RGA coding regions: pCRRNT1 (amino acids 1 to 208), pCRRNT2 (amino acids 1 to 108), pCRRNT3 (amino acids 1 to 70), and pCRRNT4 (amino acids 1 to 4). BamHI-EcoRI fragments of pCRRNT1-4 were subcloned into BamHI-EcoRI sites of pACTII, resulting in pACTRNT1-4 (AD-RNT1-4). For yeast three-hybrid analysis, pGBT9 (for DB fusion; Clontech), pACTII (for AD fusion), and a third expression vector, pH3 (with the selectable marker URA3), were used. The pH3 vector was generated by the following procedures. SalI-XmnI fragment of pIIIEx426 RPR (CITATION) containing the URA3 gene was cloned into SalI-EcoRV–digested pACT2 (Clontech), generating pACTUra. The LEU2 gene in pACT2 was destroyed in this step. The AD domain region of pACTUra was removed by HindIII digestion, and a multicloning site sequence (see Supplemental Table 1 online) was inserted into the HindIII site of pACTUra to generate pH3. The BamHI-EcoRI fragment containing GID1a from pCRGID1a was cloned into the BamHI-EcoRI site of pH3 to yield pH3GID1a (GID1a). The EcoRI-BamHI fragment of pSLY101 containing the SLY1 coding region was cloned into the EcoRI-BamHI site of pGBT9, generating pGBTSLY1 (DB-SLY1). For pull-down assays, the BamHI-EcoRI fragments from pCRGID1a, pCRGID1b, and pCRGID1c were cloned into the BamHI-EcoRI sites of pGEX-3X (GE Healthcare) to generate pGEXGID1a (GST-GID1a), pGEXGID1b (GST-GID1b), and pGEXGID1c (GST-GID1c). For yeast two-hybrid assays, DB (pLexA-NLS derivative; Trp selection) and AD (pACTII derivative; Leu selection) fusion constructs were cotransformed into Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain L40 (CITATION). Yeast transformation, the growth test with 3-AT, and β-gal liquid assay were performed as described previously (CITATION). The effect of GA on protein–protein interactions was tested by adding 100 μM GA3 in the growth media. For yeast three-hybrid assays, the yeast strain PJ69-4A (CITATION) was cotransformed with three types of plasmids. The first plasmid expressed the DB-SLY1 fusion (in pGBT9; Trp selection), the second type of plasmids encoded the AD fusion proteins for RGA, rga-Δ17, and RNT1 (in pACTII; Leu selection), and the third plasmid expressed GID1a (pH3 derivative; uracil selection). Transformed colonies were selected on synthetic complete medium lacking Leu, Trp, and uracil. Transformants were maintained on the same medium and transferred to synthetic medium without Leu, Trp, uracil, and His supplemented with 3-AT (5, 10, 30, and 60 mM) in the presence or absence of 100 μM GA3. β-gal liquid assays were performed by growing transformants on the synthetic complete medium lacking Leu, Trp, and uracil in the presence or absence of 100 μM GA3. Expression of DB and AD fusion proteins were confirmed by immunoblot analysis using anti-LexA and anti-HA antibodies (Santa Cruz Biotechnology). Recombinant GST and GST-GID1a were expressed in Escherichia coli BL21-CodonPlus (DE3)-RIL (Stratagene). One-twentieth volume of precultured cells was added to 200 mL (GST) and 1.2 liters (GST-GID1a) of Luria-Bertani medium and cultured at room temperature until OD600 0.3 to 0.6. Induction of recombinant proteins was performed by addition of 0.1 mM isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside for 4 h. Cells were then harvested and resuspended with buffer A containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 100 mM NaCl, 0.05% Nonidet P-40, 1× Gamborg's B-5 with Minimal Organics (CAISSON Laboratories), and 1 mM DTT. The cells were lysed by French press (5000 p.s.i.; three times). The lysates were centrifuged at 21,000g for 10 min, and the supernatants were mixed with 200 μL of glutathione sepharose 4B beads (GE Healthcare) and agitated for 30 min at 4°C. The beads were washed five times with buffer A. Seven-day-old Arabidopsis sly1-10 and sly1-10/rga-24 seedlings (0.5 g for Figure 6; 2.5 g for Supplemental Figure 4 online) were ground in liquid nitrogen, and proteins were extracted by adding 10 mL of buffer B (same as buffer A, except containing 0.5% Nonidet P-40 and 1× Complete EDTA free [Roche]) with gentle agitation for 10 min at 4°C. The extracts were then centrifuged at 21,000g for 10 min at 4°C. For each pull-down assay, 10 μL of beads (containing 30 μg GST or 5 μg GST-GID1a) were mixed with 500 μL of the plant extracts and incubated in the presence or absence of GA4 for 60 min with gentle agitation at 4°C. The beads were washed three times in the buffer A containing 100 μM GA4 and resuspended with 50 μL of SDS-PAGE sample buffer. Protein samples (10 μL each) were separated by 8% SDS-PAGE gel and immunoblotting with affinity-purified anti-RGA antibodies (DU176) as described (CITATION). Signals were detected by SuperSignal West Pico chemiluminescent substrate (Pierce). Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for the genes mentioned in this article are as follows: GID1a (At3g05120), GID1b (At3g63010), GID1c (At5g27320), RGA (At2g01570), GAI (At1g14920), SLY1 (At4g24210), and GA3ox1 (At1g15550). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Methods. Real-Time Quantitative RT-PCR Analysis. Supplemental Figure 1. gid1a, gid1b, and gid1c Insertion Mutants. Supplemental Figure 2. Phenotypes of the gid1a gid1c and gid1a gid1b Mutants. Supplemental Figure 3. GA-Insensitive Root Growth of gid1a-1 gid1b-1 gid1c-1. Supplemental Figure 4. GA-Dependent Interactions between RGA and Arabidopsis GID1s in Pull-Down Assays. Supplemental Table 1. Primers for Cloning, Sequencing, and Quantitative PCR. Supplemental Table 2. Genetic Segregation of Germination Phenotypes in the Arabidopsis gid1 Multiple Mutants.
